PROPERTY 



OFTHE *]£\^$ 




/l/Q 






SHORT REVIEW 



OF TJIE 

SLAVE TRADE 

AND SLAVERY, 

WITH 

CONSIDERATIONS ON THE BENEFIT 
WHICH WOULD ARISE FROM CULTIVATING 
I TROPICAL PRODUCTIONS 



BY *» # 

FREE LABOUR. 






BIRMINGHAM : 



BEILBY, KNOTT, AND BE#«FY 



1327, 



FEINTED BY T. KNOTT, J UN. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



THE following pages were compiled about the 
close of the year 1825. Since that period the State 
of Slavery in our Colonies has again been brought 
under discussion in Parliament ; but nothing which 
has since occurred, either there or elsewhere, has 
tended in the smallest degree to weaken, in the minds 
of many Friends to the Abolition of Slavery, the 
settled conviction they before entertained of the pa- 
ramount importance of that view of the question 
which it is the main object of the present publication 
to elucidate. Although some of the observations 
which follow may have a more particular reference tc 
the above period, yet it is believed that the greater 
part will be equally applicable to the present. 



Birmingham. Feb-. 1827. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/shortreviewofslaOOdeni 



REVIEW, &c. 



xT is the object of the following compilation to 
present at one view to those persons whose thoughts 
have never been much directed to the subject, a sketch 
of the nature and extent of the Slave Trade, and of 
the evils inseparable from the condition of Slavery ; 
to point out the failure of all the efforts hitherto made 
to abolish the one or mitigate the other, and to draw 
the public attention to a principle, by the gradual but 
certain operation of which, it is believed, they may 
both be yet undermined and overthrown. When the 
vast mass of physical and moral evil which Slavery 
has caused, and is still causing, has been briefly 
brought before the reader, it is hoped that an anxious 
desire will be produced for its abolition ; and an ample 
and interesting field of enquiry will then be open to 
him as to the means best calculated for effecting it. 

Humanity has hitherto done little, notwithstand- 
ing her strenuous and persevering efforts, towards ac- 
complishing her purposes of mercy, and we may now 
reasonably ask, whether her means of success are not 
to be found in the co-operation of motives and inter- 
ests, not yet sufficiently regarded in reference to the 
present subject, but which, if employed in her ser- 
vice, would essentially contribute to secure the tri- 
umph of her cause. 



6 

As the History, Nature, and Consequences of 
Slavery, prove it to be incompatible with the prospe- 
rity of those who maintain it ; and eloquently illus- 
trate the position " That it is the interest of every 
man to do right," it is hoped that these pages will 
make it apparent to all unprejudiced minds, that not 
mercy and justice alone, but every dictate of common 
sense, and every principle of sound policy, require its 
destruction. 

May no one close the following statement without 
a sense of his individual responsibility on this deeply 
momentous subject. Let each faithfully examine 
what are the means within his own power of absolv- 
ing himself from a participation in the crime of his 
country, and of contributing to remove the stain of 
its guilt. Those means, however insufficient alone to 
effect so vast an object, are yet the means most im- 
portant to him ; being all that to him are delegated — 
all for which he is answerable. — They cannot be well 
employed and effect nothing: if rightly used they 
will, at least, produce a return of peace to his own bo- 
som, whilst their neglect may be followed by bitter 
remorse. Let no man under-rate his capabilities, or 
overlook his resources, in a cause which so authorita- 
tively demands a faithful examination into the powers 
with which he is invested. Let him diligently inves- 
tigate his possessions of money, talent, influence : and 
pause, solemnly pause, before he pronounce, that he 
can do nothing for his afflicted Brethren in Bondage. 



NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE 
SLAVE TRADE, 



THE SLAVE TRADE commenced very soon after the 
discovery of America. 

So early as the year 1503, a few Negro Slaves had been 
sent into the New World. In 1511 Ferdinand the Fifth per- 
mitted them to be carried in greater numbers. After his 
death, Bartholomew de Las Casas, the Bishop of Chiafra* 
made a proposal to Cardinal Ximenes for the establishment 
of a regular system of commerce in the persons of the na- 
tive Africans. The Cardinal refused to accede to this pro- 
posal ; but after his death, Charles the Fifth granted a pa- 
tent to one of his Flemish favourites containing an exclusive 
right of importing four thousand Negroes into America. The 
favourite sold his patent to some Genoese merchants, and 
they were the first who brought into a regular form that 
commerce for slaves between Africa and America which has 
since been carried to such amazing extent. The first impor- 
tation of Slaves from Africa by our Countrymen was in the 
reign of Elizabeth, in the year 1562. England soon en- 
gaged deeply in the traffic : and in 1713 obtained a mono- 
poly of the trade for supplying Spanish America with Slaves !* 
The other maritime nations of Europe also continued to ex- 
tend it, and it is worthy of remark, that most, if not all, the 

* See Robertson's History of America and Clarkson's History of thS 
Abolition of the Slave Trade. 

b2 



8 

European States, with the exception of Portugal, in first re- 
cognizing by legal sanction this inhuman traffic, evinced a 
consciousness that they were trampling upon rights which 
the power they possessed gave them no title to invade. Their 
sense of its injustice proves that however habit may recon- 
cile the human mind to an existing evil, even interest could 
not at first bribe it to contemplate so iniquitous a system 
without a lively perception of its real nature. 

From that period the Trade continued to increase, and 
gradually arrived at an extent so dreadful, that, for a num- 
ber of years, from sixty to one hundred thousand human 
beings are estimated to have been annually torn from their 
country and transplanted to the European Settlements in 
America. 

In proceeding to investigate the nature of this Traffic, it 
will first become our business to enquire by what methods 
Slaves are obtained upon the African coast. 

One of these is by a species of warfare, called Tegria, 
which, in the African language, means robbery, and consists 
of expeditions, without any previous notice or declaration, 
for the purpose of plunder. It is this sort of warfare which 
chiefly supplies the slave-market. These Tegria are of 
greater or less extent, according to circumstances. They are 
conducted by men heading parties of five hundred horse- 
men, down to the single individual armed with his bow and 
arrows, who, concealing himself amidst the bushes, waits till 
some young or unarmed person passes by ; then, tiger-like, 
he springs upon his prey, rushes with it into the woods, and, 
when night falls, carries him off for a slave. 

" Wars of this description," says Mr. Park, " are gene- 
rally conducted with great secrecy. A few resolute indivi- 
duals, headed by some person of enterprise and courage, 
march quietly through the woods, surprise in the night some 
unprotected village, and carry off the inhabitants and their 
effects, before their neighbours can come to their assistance. 
One morning, during my stay at Kamalia, we were all much 



9 

alarmed by a party of thjs kind. The king of Foolado'g son, 
with five hundred horsemen, passed secretly through the 
woods, a little to the southward of Kamalia, and on the 
morning following plundered three towns belonging toMadi- 
gai, a powerful chief in Jalonkadoo. 

" The success of this expedition encouraged the gover- 
nor of Bangassi, a town in Foolado, to make a second inroad 
4ipon another part of the same country. Having assembled 
about two hundred of his people, he passed the river Kokoro 
in the night, and carried off a great number of prisoners. 
Several of the inhabitants who had escaped these attacks, 
were afterwards seized by theMandingoes, as they wandered 
,about in the woods, or .concealed themselves in the glens and 
strong places of the mountains. These plundering expedi- 
tions always produce speedy retaliation; and when large 
parties cannot be collected for this purpose, a few friends 
will combine together and advance into the enemies' coun- 
try, with a view to plunder and carry off the inhabitants. By 
these means hereditary quarrels are excited and perpetuated 
between nations, tribes, villages, and even single families, in 
consequence of the powerful temptation which the slave- 
market opens to the inhabitants to gratify their revenge with 
a momentary profit/' 

The Slave Trade, on the other hand, is conducted both 
up the rivers and upon the coast, by the whites themselves. 
The natives see their ships ; they know that they come 
loaded with articles adapted to their wants, and for the 
purpose of receiving men, women, and children in exchange. 
Here lies the temptation. Here are the means before their 
eyes of immediately gratifying their desires. No sooner do 
their vessels drop their anchor, than lust, avarice, enmity, 
revenge, and all the bad passions which agitate the human 
breast, are brought forth into action. The news of the arri- 
val of a slave-ship, is like the publication of a reward for 
every species of crime. From that moment few are safe. A 
witness examined by the English Parliament, deposed that 



10 

the natives dared not stir out of their houses at these times 
without their arms. He asked one of them the reason why 
he armed himself when there was no war. The man's answer, 
though silent, was expressive. He pointed his finger to a 
slave-ship which was then lying in the roads. And here it 
may be proper to remark, that the European traders never 
ask any questions, whether the slaves they buy have been 
fairly or unfairly obtained. Some of them boldly and frank- 
ly acknowledged, before the same Parliament, that they 
bought all sorts of persons, without paying the least regard 
to the manner in which they had been made slaves, or with- 
out considering the right of the seller to dispose of them. 
" If the natives," said they, " will sell them, we will buy 
them." 

But happy had it been for thousands of Africans, if the 
stream of this trade had been left to take only its own natu- 
ral course, or if the European traders had not given it an 
undue impulse by an application of the most criminal powers ; 
but alas ! what must we not expect from persons who leave 
their own country to tear the innocent inhabitants from 
another into a dreadful slavery, for their own profit I Is it 
likely that they would be over-scrupulous in the means of 
obtaining their object? The fact justifies the supposition, 
as we shall soon show. It is well known that all barbarous 
nations have an excessive love for spirituous liquors, and 
that this love grows with indulgence, till it becomes an invin- 
cible habit. Here, then, we meet with acts of the most cri- 
minal interference on the part of the European traders. 
Well acquainted with this unhappy infirmity on the part of 
the natives, they have lost no opportunity of profiting by it. 
They have given feasts to the chieftains, and when they have 
made them drunk, they have procured orders from them for 
military incursions against their own subjects. They are 
found also to have had recourse to other means equally base 
and fatal. They have sown the seeds of discord between the 
chieftains of neighbouring states though living in amity with 



11 

each other ; and where they have found disputes already ex- 
isting between them, they have blown the embers into a 
flame, well knowing, that whoever were the conquerors, the 
war would terminate in their own favour. To enable the 
two parties to avenge each other, they have supplied both of 
them, upon trust, with arms and ammunition. They have 
then become calm spectators of the conflict, and as soon as 
it was over, they have repaid themselves by receiving the 
prisoners on both sides. But this is not all. When men 
become once familiarized with vice, who knows were they 
will stop ? When the moral principle is gone, what is to 
check them ? The European traders have had even the au- 
dacity to steal the natives themselves, when they have been 
able to do it without being discovered, or without the fear of 
retaliation. How many solitary canoes have been seized, 
both in the rivers and upon the coast, and the people on board 
of them taken out and carried off" to the regions of slavery !* 
The atrocious crimes and dreadful miseries which attend 
this wide-spreading system of desolation, will be further il- 
lustrated by the following extracts. The first forms part of a 
letter from a person residing at Senegal, to his correspondent 
at Paris, dated St. Louis, Senegal, August 20, 1818. 

" If you knew all the infamous transactions," says he, 
" or rather, all the crimes which the thirst of gold produces 
in this country, you would scarcely credit such atrocities. 
White men, officers of the government, have been seen caus- 
ing the blacks to be hunted even in the streets of St. Louis ; 
that is to say, causing blacks, either slave or free, to be 
seized and carried off to the coast, where a ship was in wait- 
ing for them. In one instance, a black having been kidnap- 
ped in this manner, the next day his mother hastened to offer 
a sum of money for his liberation. The honest white took 
the money, and two days after both mother and son were 
shipped off for America. The latter, indignant at the out- 

* Clarkson's Cries of Africa, p. 8, 9, 



12 



rage, stabbed himself, saying, ' Thou white man : devourer 
of blacks ! I cannot revenge myself upon thee but by de- 
priving thee of my person.' " — This transaction has occurred 
subsequently to the Abolition of the Slave Trade. 

Extract from Observations on the Slave Trade, by the 
Abbe Giudicelly, formerly resident at Senegal and Goree. 
Printed at Paris in 1820. 

" The following, sir, are a few particulars of the mas- 
sacre at the village of Diaman. The desire of obtaining in- 
formation led me to the house of a native, a neighbour of 
mine, who had bought a woman of twenty years of age, that 
had been lately captured. I learned from her, that not being 
able to flee, in consequence of wounds on her feet, she had 
been made a slave by the Moors ; that her husband had been 
out hunting for eight days, her eldest daughter had been res- 
cued by her grandmother; that her father had died in the 
defence of the village, and that the Moors, at the time of 
capturing her, had stabbed her infant of five months old, 
which she had in her arms. 

" This poor woman was much distressed at my inquiries, 
and it was with difficulty that I prevailed on her to accept of 
some little relief. I was obliged to tell her repeatedly, but 
perhaps without convincing her, that all white people were 
not like those who had treated her with so much barbarity ; 
and that the greater part of them detested such horrid cruelty, 
1 Why, then,' she inquired with much earnestness, bursting 
into tears, ' why, then, do they not prevent it V 

" The destruction of the village of Diaman was the sig- 
nal of the most dreadful atrocities, such as I should not 
have dared to suspect that even cannibals could be guilty of. 
On the Senegal, in the streets of the colony, as well as in the 
surrounding country, every black who was a stranger and 
unprotected, was arrested, sold, and carried on board a ship. 
How often has my ear been assailed by the cries of these 
poor wretches, when, in the night, they were struggling 
against their persecutors. 



13 

" In the beginning of the year 1818, King Darnel en- 
camped with about three thousand men, cavalry and infantry, 
and one thousand Moors, at the village of Gandiol, about 
three leagues from St. Louis. I went to see this barbarian, 
who for 6ix months had been travelling to the different parts 
of his kingdom, carrying desolation, fire, and slaughter. To 
whom has he sold his subjects, whom he has enslaved by 
thousands ? They have all been sent away to America, from 
the Senegal or Goree." 

But if these things are so, how is it possible that the na-? 
tives upon the coast can be industrious, or that they can ad- 
vance in the scale of civilization. Mr. Bryan Edwards, the 
.celebrated author of the history of Jamaica, though he set his 
face against the abolition of the Slave Trade, being himself 
a planter, had yet the candour to allow, that the greater part 
of the continent of Africa was " a field of war and desola- 
tion ; a forest where the inhabitants were wolves to one 
another ; a scene of fraud, rapine, oppression, and blood." 
This information he said he collected from his own negroes, 
who had been taken from it. What a melancholy picture 
does this account, which is in conformity with our preceding 
representations, afford us ! And how much more disgust- 
ing is it rendered by the reflection, that all the atrocities 
which we discover in it, were occasioned by people who call 
themselves Christians ! ! 

From sixty to one hundred thousand human beings are 
in this manner torn annually from their country, their fami- 
lies, and friends, transplanted to a distant country, and 
destined to toil as beasts of burden for the advantage of 
others, they and their posterity for ever ! If the unhappy 
Africans are human beings ; if they have passions similar to 
our own ; if they feel and think like ourselves, they have a 
claim upon our deepest sympathy. When we hear the cries 
of an animal which suffers, we cannot refrain from pity ; we 
find in our breast an impulse which tells us, that there is 
some analogy between jts pains and our own ; and can we 



14 

see such an accumulation of misery brought upon an inno- 
cent and unoffending people, without taking an interest in 
their sufferings, or without advocating their cause ? 

The European traders, conscious of their own guilt, con- 
scious, indeed, that the voice of nature would cry out against 
their crimes, have prepared themselves long ago with argu- 
ments in their defence. Conscious that nothing else would 
justify their conduct, they have given out, and continue to 
give out, that the Africans are creatures of another species ; 
that they have not the faculties and feelings of men ; that 
they are upon a level with brutes ; and add, by way of con- 
firmation of their assertions, that though some centuries have 
passed since Africa was discovered, its inhabitants have made 
no progress in civilization like other people. 

There will be no difficulty in refuting this argument, if 
we appeal to disinterested travellers, or to any travellers of 
reputation, who have visited the continent in question. And 
first, let us enquire whether the Africans have any moral cha- 
racter. 

" The fierce disposition of the Feloops," says Mr. Park, "is 
counterbalanced by many good qualities. They display the 
utmost gratitude and affection towards their benefactors; 
and the fidelity with which they preserve whatever is en- 
trusted to them, is remarkable." 

" One of the first lessons in which the Mandingo women 
instruct their children, is the practice of truth. The reader 
will probably recollect the case of the unhappy mother, whose 
son was murdered by the Moorish banditti at Funingkedy. 
Her only consolation in her uttermost distress, was the re- 
flection, that the poor boy, in the course of his blameless life, 
had never told a lie." 

" It is remarkable, that an African pardons more easily 
a beating, than an injury spoken against his parents. — 
' Wound me, but curse not my mother,' is a very common 
expression among them." 

With respect to the sympathies of nature, or their affec- 



15 

tionate fondness for one another, let us hear what Mr. Park 
says also on this subject. " About two o'clock we came in 
sight of Jumba, the native town of the blacksmith (the negro 
who had travelled with Mr. Park), from whence he had been 
absent more than four years. When we arrived at the black- 
smith's place of residence, we dismounted and fired our 
muskets. The meeting between him and his relations was 
very tender ; for these rude children of nature, free from re- 
straint, display their emotions in the strongest and most ex- 
pressive manner. Amidst these transports, the blacksmith's 
aged mother was led forth, leaning upon a stafF. Every one 
made way for her, and she stretched out her hand to bid her 
son welcome. Being totally blind, she stroked his hands, 
arms, and face with great care, and seemed highly delighted 
that her latter days were blessed by his return, and that her 
ears once more heard the music of his voice. From this in- 
terview I was fully convinced, that whatever difference there 
is between the Negro and European in the conformation of 
the nose and the colour of the skin, there is none in the ge- 
nuine sympathies and characteristic feelings of our common 
nature." 

Take the following as instances of their hospitality, or of 
their tenderness for strangers in distress. ■" Towards even- 
ing," says Mr. Park, " as I was sitting down, chewing straws 
(this was in the kingdom of Kajaaga), an old female slave 
passing by with a basket upon her head, asked me if I had 
got my dinner ? As I thought she only laughed at me, I 
gave her no answer; but my boy, who was sitting close by, 
answered for me, and told her that the king's people had 
robbed me of all my money. On hearing this, the good old 
woman, with a look of unaffected benevolence, immediately 
took the basket from her head, and showing me that it con- 
tained ground nuts, asked me if I could eat them. Being 
answered in the affirmative, she presented me with a few 
handfuls, and walked away before I had time to thank her for 
this seasonable supply. This trifling circumstance gave me 



16 

particular satisfaction. I reflected with pleasure on the con* 
duct of this poor untutored slave, who, without examining 
into my character or circumstances, listened implicitly to the 
dictates of her own heart. Experience had taught her that 
hunger was painful, and her own distresses made her conir 
miserate those of others." 

On another occasion, when Mr. Park was near Sego, he 
speaks thus — " I was obliged to sit all day without victuals, 
in the shade of a tree ; and the night threatened to be very 
uncomfortable, for the wind rose, and there was great appear- 
ance of a heavy rain ; and the wild beasts are so very numer- 
ous in the neighbourhood, that I should have been under the 
necessity of climbing up the tree and resting among the 
branches. About sunset, however, as I was preparing to 
pass the night in this manner, and had turned my horse 
loose, that he might graze at liberty, a woman returning 
from the field stopped to observe me, and perceiving that I 
was weary and dejected, inquired into my situation, which I 
briefly explained to her ; whereupon, with looks of great com- 
passion, she took up my saddle and bridle, and told me to 
follow her. Having conducted me into her hut, she lighted 
up a lamp, spread a mat on the floor, and told me I might re- 
main there for the night. Finding that I was very hungry, 
she said that she would procure me something to eat. She 
accordingly went out, and returned in a short time with a 
very fine fish, which having caused to be half broiled upon 
some embers, she gave me for supper. The rights of hospi- 
tality being thus performed towards a stranger in distress, 
my worthy benefactress (pointing to the mat, and telling me 
I might sleep there without fear) called to the female part of 
her family, who had stood gazing on me all the while in fixed 
astonishment, to resume their task of spinning cotton, in 
which they continued to employ themselves great part of the 
night. They lightened their labour by songs, one of which 
was composed extempore, for I was myself the subject of it. 
Jt was sung by one of the young women, the rest joining i$ 



il 

a sort of chorus. The tune was sweet and plaintive, arid the 
words literally translated were these : ' The winds roared 
and the rains fell : the poor white man, faint and weary, came 
and sat under our tree : he has no mother to bring him milk, 
no wife to grind his corn. Chorus, Let us pity the white 
man ; no mother has he, &c. &c.' Trifling as this recital 
may appear to the reader, to a person in my situation the cir- 
cumstance was affecting in the highest degree. I was op- 
pressed by such unexpected kindness, and sleep fled from my 
eyes. In the morning I presented'my compassionate land- 
lady with two of the four brass buttons which remained on 
my waistcoat, the only recompence I could make her." 

Having said thus much on the moral character of the Afri- 
cans, we shall now inquire if they have an intellectual one. 

Mr. Park says, that " in every considerable town, there 
is a chief magistrate (among the Mandingoes), called the al- 
kaid, whose office is hereditary, and whose business it is to 
preserve order, to levy duties on travellers, and to preside 
at all conferences in the exercise of local jurisdiction and the 
administration of justice. These courts are composed of the 
elders of the town, and are termed palavers ; and their pro- 
ceedings are conducted in the open air with sufficient solem- 
nity. Both sides of the question are freely canvassed, wit- 
nesses are publicly examined, and the decisions which fol- 
low generally meet with the approbation of the surrounding 
audience." 

In speaking of Sego, he says, " that it contained about 
thirty thousand inhabitants. The view of this extensive city, 
the numerous canoes upon the river, the crowded population, 
and the cultivated state of the surrounding country, formed 
altogether a prospect of civilization and magnificence, which 
I little expected to find in the bosom of Africa." 

" As the arts of weaving, dying, sewing, &c. may be 
easily acquired, those who exercise them are not considered, 
in Africa, as following any particular profession, for almost 
every slave can. weave, and every boy can sew. The only ar- 



18 



lists which are distinctly acknowledged as such by the ne- 
groes, and who value themselves on exercising peculiar 
trades, are the manufacturers of leather and iron. The first 
of these are called karrankea. They are to be found in al- 
most every town, and they frequently travel through the 
country in the exercise of their calling. They tan and dress 
leather with very great expedition. They convert the hides 
of bullocks chiefly into sandals, and the skins of sheep and 
goats into quivers, and into sheaths for swords and knives, 
and into belts, pockets, and a variety of ornaments. These 
skins are commonly dyed of a red or yellow colour. 

" The manufacturers in iron are not so numerous as the 
karrankea, but they appear to have studied their business 
with equal diligence. 

" Most of the African blacksmiths are acquainted also 
with the method of smelting gold. They are able also to 
draw the gold into wire, and to form it into a variety of orna- 
ments, some of which are executed with a great deal of taste 
and ingenuity." 

It will not be necessary to make any other extracts from 
Mr. Park, or to appeal to the Book of Evidence printed by 
order of the English Parliament (which is in the most perfect 
unison with the statements of Mr. Park), to refute the wicked 
argument of the European traders, that the Africans are 
creatures of another species. We have shown that they are 
grateful to their benefactors ; that they are faithful to their 
employers ; that they are lovers of truth ; that they possess 
all the amiable sympathies of our nature ; that they are ca- 
pable of conducting civil government ; that they possess 
cities crowded with commerce and surrounded by cultivation; 
and that they exercise, not Only the common or ordinary 
trades or callings, but even those where ingenuity and ta- 
lents are required : but if the Africans possess, in common 
with the Europeans, both a moral and an intellectual charac- 
ter, who but the Slave-traders would dare to deny them the 
privilege of being men ? 



19 

But although the Christian nations of Europe have en- 
deavoured to justify their conscious violation of all the ac- 
knowledged rights of humanity in the person of the negro, 
by pointing to his dark colour and different features, and 
denying his claim to the equal privileges of a common na- 
ture ; " yet our Scriptures," as Mr. Watson justly and elo- 
quently observes, " have not left us to determine the title of 
any tribe to the full honours of humanity by accidental cir-v 
cumstances. To Man has been given the law: l Thou shalt 
love the Lord thy God with all thy heart ;' and to be capable 
of loving God, is the infallible criterion of our peculiar na- 
ture. To determine, then, who are men, it is only necessary 
to determine who are capable of obeying that universal and 
exclusive law to man, the love of God. The labours of the 
missionaries have already settled this question. The Negro 
through all his shades ; the Hottentot through all his vanities ; 
the Indians of America, and the Natives of New Holland, 
have all, in our own days, been inspired with the love of 
God, through the Gospel, and by this test have been proved 
to be our brethren. 

" But if it be somewhat too late to chase the negro out 
of the current of our common blood, and to sever his relation 
to Adam and to God, yet it is affirmed by many to this hour, 
that at least he is so degenerate a variety of the human spe- 
cies as to defy all cultivation of mind and all correction of 
morals. 

" And yet, will it be believed," he continues, " that 
this contemned race can, as to intellect and genius, exhibit 
a brighter ancestry than our own ? that they are the offshoots, 
wild and untamed it is true, but still the offshoots of a stem 
which was once proudly luxuriant in the fruits of learning 
and taste ; whilst that from which the Goths, their calumnia- 
tors, have sprung, remained hard, and knotted, and barren ? 
For is Africa without her heraldry of science and of fame? 
The only probable account which can be given of the negro 
tribes is, that as Africa was peopled, through Egypt, by three 



20 

of the descendants of Ham, they are the offspring of Gush, 
Misraim, and Put. They found Egypt a morass, and con- 
verted it into the most fertile country in the world : they 
reared its pyramids, invented its hieroglyphics, gave letters 
to Greece and Rome, and, through them, to us. 

" The everlasting architecture of Africa still exists, the 
wonder of the world, though in ruins. Her mighty king- 
doms have yet their record in history. She has poured forth 
her heroes in the field, given bishops to the church, and mar- 
tyrs to the fires ; and for negro physiognomy, as though that 
should shut out the light of intellect, go to your national mu- 
seum, contemplate the features of the colossal head of Mem- 
non, and the statues of the divinities, on which the ancient 
Africans impressed their own forms ; and there see, in close 
resemblance to the negro feature, the mould of those coun- 
tenances which once beheld, as the creatures of their own 
immortal genius, the noblest and most stupendous monu- 
ments of human skill, and taste, and grandeur. In the im- 
perishable porphyry and granite, is the unfounded and pitiful 
slander publicly, and before all the world, refuted. There 
we see the negro under cultivation ; if he now presents a 
different aspect, cultivation is wanting ; that solves the whole 
case ; for even now, where education has been expended 
upon the pure and undoubted negro, it has never been be- 
stowed in vain. Modern times have witnessed in the persons 
of African negroes, Generals, Physicians, Philosophers, 
Linguists, Poets, Mathematicians, and Merchants, all emi- 
nent in their attainments, energetic in enterprise, and ho- 
nourable in character ; and even the Mission Schools in the 
West Indies exhibit a quickness of intellect, and a thirst for 
learning, to which the schools of this country do not always 
afford a parallel."* 

It is true that we often see the negro character degraded, 
but when we make this a ground of reproach, we appear to 

* See a Sermon by Richard Watson, p. 7, 8.— Butterworth, 1824* 



21 

forget tliat we ourselves have debased and brutalized that 
character by oppression, and in like manner when we point 
to the slow progress which the natives upon the shores of 
Africa have made in civilization, notwithstanding the advan- 
tage of their intercourse with Europe, as a proof of natural 
inferiority to the rest of mankind, we forget that we our- 
selves have long spread desolation and barbarism over those 
shores by a devastating series of the most atrocious crimes. 

But it is a fact universally acknowledged, that the natives 
of the interior are far more civilized than those of the mari- 
time parts of this continent. 

The connexion of Africa with modern Europe has had 
a constant tendency to degrade and demoralize her; and in- 
stead of being a blessing, as it ought to have been, it has 
been a curse. If We trace the progress of improvement in 
the human race, we shall find that the borders of navigable 
rivers, and the shores of the sea, being the most frequented, 
have been the first in civilization, and that light and know- 
ledge have afterwards spread from thence into the interior. 
Just the reverse has been the case in Africa. The most civi- 
lized people there are the inhabitants of the interior, while 
those of the shores are comparatively barbarous. Now what 
can have occasioned this striking difference, this appearance 
so contrary to the testimony of history and the experience of 
ages ? Can we give a better reason for it than that the for- 
mer have scarcely seen a white face, and that the latter have 
kept up for three centuries a constant connexion with the 
Europeans ?* 



It will be our next painful task to follow the unhappy Ne- 
groes to the ships — to those European ships which are to take 
them from every thing that is dear to them in life, and to 
convey them to a foreign land. 

They who are made slaves in the vicinity of the rivers or 

* See Park's Travels, Dupuis' Ashantee, Denham and Clapperton's Ex- 
pedition to the Interior of Africa, &c 

C 



22 

the sea-shore, have generally but a short way to travel. 
They are made to walk by land, with their arms pinioned, or 
are brought down, tied together, and lying on their backs, at 
the bottom of a boat. 

Those who are made slaves in the interior have a long 
journey to perform, frequently of many moons. They are 
made to travel on foot, over rocks and burning sands, and 
through wildernesses and other inhospitable places. The 
black merchants, who conduct them to the Europeans, gene- 
rally wait till they have collected a sufficient number to make 
it worth their while to undertake a journey. When the time 
arrives, they set off, themselves, slaves, asses, and attend- 
ants, and guards. 3uch a mixed group of men, animals, and 
merchandize travelling together, is called, in Africa, a coffle. 
These coffles are frequently increased by the junction of other 
coffles on the road. As Mr. Park travelled with these cof- 
fles, and perhaps is the only European who ever did so, it is 
to him, and to him only, that we must look for light and in- 
formation on this melancholy subject. 

Mr. Park informs us, that Karfa had collected at Kamalia 
as many slaves as would make a sufficient coffle. He tells 
us also that he himself conversed with them there. They 
are commonly secured by putting the right leg of one and the 
left of another into the same pair of fetters. By supporting 
the fetters with a string, they can walk, though very slowly. 
Every four slaves are likewise fastened together by the necks 
with a strong rope of twisted thongs ; and in the night an 
additional pair of fetters is put on their hands, and sometimes 
a light iron chain passed round their necks. 

At length the morning of their departure arrived, and Mr. 
Park was to travel with them. The first thing that the slatees 
did, was to take the irons from their slaves, that is, from those 
who were assembled before Karfa's door. They then tied up 
the different bundles of merchandize, and appointed to every 
slave the load he was to carry. " When we moved forward," 
says Mr. Park, " we were followed for about half a mile from 



23 

Kamalia by most of the inhabitants of the town, some of then! 
crying, and others shaking hands with their relations, who 
were now about to leave them. As many of the slaves had 
remained for years in irons, the sudden exertion of walking 
quick, with heavy loads upon their heads, occasioned spas- 
modic contractions of their legs : and we had not proceeded 
above a mile, before it was found necessary to take two of 
them from the rope, and allow them to walk more slowly, 
until we reached Maraboo, a walled village, where some peo- 
ple were waiting to join the coffle." 

On the third day after their departure we hear of them 
again. " During this day's travel," says Mr. Park, " a wo- 
man and a girl, belonging to a slatee of Bala, were so much 
fatigued, that they could not keep up with the coffle : they 
were severely whipped, and dragged along. 

u In the course of the journey, one of the female slaves 
being excessively fatigued, refused to proceed any further, 
declaring that she would rather die than walk another step. 
As entreaties and threats were used in vain, the whip was at 
length applied ; and after bearing patiently a few strokes, she 
started up, and walked with tolerable expedition for four or 
five hours longer ; when she made an attempt to run away 
from the coffle, but was so very weak that she fell down in the 
grass. Though she was unable to rise, the whip was a se- 
cond time applied, but without effect ! 

" As we had eat only one handful of meal," lie continues, 
" since the preceding night, and travelled all day in a hot 
sun, many of the slaves who had loads upon their heads were 
very much fatigued ; and some of them snapt their fingers, 
which, among the negroes, is a sure sign of desperation. 
The slatees immediately put them all in irons ; and such of 
them as had evinced signs of great despondency, were kept 
apart from the rest, and had their hands tied. 

" In this misery the female slave before referred to being 
unable to proceed, and every attempt to carry her forward 

c2 



24 

'being found ineffectual, the general cry of the coffle Was, 
' hang tegi, hang tegi, cut her throat, cut her throat,' which 
was soon afterwards done. 

" We continued our route," he goes on to say, " with 
great expedition, through the woods, until noon, when one of 
the Serawoolli slaves dropt the load from his head, for which 
he was smartly whipped. The load was replaced, but he had 
not proceeded above a mile, before he let it fall a second 
time, for which he received the same punishment. After this 
he travelled in great pain until about two o'clock, when we 
stopt to breathe a little by a pool of water, the day being re- 
markably hot. The poor slave was now so completely ex- 
hausted, that his master was obliged to release him from the 
rope, for he lay motionless on the ground. A Serawoolli, 
therefore, undertook to remain with him, and endeavour to 
bring him to the town (Baniserile) during the cool of the 
night. In the mean while we continued our route, and, after 
a very hard day's travel, arrived there ourselves in the 
evening. About eight o'clock the Serawoolli joined us. 
He told us the slave was dead : the general opinion, however, 
was, that he had killed him, or left him to perish on the 
road." 

On the 30th of May, Mr. Park furnishes us with another 
affecting anecdote, which he gives us in the following words : 
" We reached Jalacotta. Here one of the slaves belonging 
to the coffle, who had travelled with difficulty for the last 
three days, was found unable to proceed any further. His 
master (a singing man) proposed, therefore, to exchange him 
for a young girl belonging to one of the townspeople. The 
poor girl was ignorant of her fate until the bundles were all 
tied up in the morning, and the coffle ready to depart ; when, 
coming with some other young women to see the coffle set 
out, her master took her by the hand, and delivered her to 
the singing man. Never was a face of serenity more sud- 
denly changed into one of the deepest distress. The terror 



25 

she manifested on having the load put upon her head,- and. 
the rope fastened round her neck, and the sorrow with which 
she bade adieu to her companions, were truly affecting. 

" 1 was now approaching," he continues, " the end of my 
tedious and toilsome journey, and expected, in another day, 
to meet with countrymen and friends : I could not part, for 
the last time, with my unfortunate fellow travellers, doomed, 
as I knew most of them to be, to a life of captivity and sla- 
very in a foreign land, without great emotion. During a wea- 
risome peregrination of more than five hundred English miles, 
exposed to the burning rays of a tropical sun, these poor 
slaves, amidst their own infinitely greater sufferings, would 
commiserate mine; and frequently, of their own accord, 
bring water to quench my thirst, and at night collect branches 
and leaves to prepare me a bed in the wilderness. We parted 
with reciprocal expressions of regret and benediction. My 
good wishes and prayers were all I could bestow upon them ; 
and it afforded me some consolation to be told, that they 
were sensible I had no more to give." 



We have now followed the unhappy Africans, reduced to 
a state of slavery, from the interior of their own country to 
the place of their embarkation. Here a new scene com- 
mences. The black merchants, who drive them thither, sell 
them to the Europeans. From this period we are to follow 
them again. We are now to follow them across the ocean, 
and to see what their situation is under their new masters. 

The different witnesses examined by the English Parlia- 
ment all agree, that when they are put on board the vessels, 
they appear melancholy and dejected, and that they continue 
so for some time, and some of them during the whole voyage ; 
and that this dejection arises from the keenness of their feel- 
ings, on account of the separation from their country, their 
families, and their friends. 

When they are brought on board, the men are chained to* 
gether in pairs, the right leg of one being fastened to the left 



26 

leg of another; and in this situation, that is, two and two to- 
gether, they are made to go below, to the place or prison allot- 
ted to them in the hold of the vessel. The women and chil- 
dren are conveyed to other parts, but they are not ironed like 
the men. 

"When the weather is fair, they are made to leave their 
prisons, to take the advantage of fresh air and to take their 
meals. The men are distributed for this purpose in long 
rows of two and two, from head to stern, on each side of the 
deck ; but, to prevent them rising upon the crew, or jumping 
overboard, a long chain is passed through the irons of each 
pair of slaves, and is locked at both the ends of it to the 
deck. 

When the vessel is full, their situation is wretched. In 
the best-regulated ships, a full-grown man has no more space 
allowed him to lie upon than sixteen English inches in 
breadth, which gives him about as much room as a man has 
in his coffin, and about two feet eight inches in height. But 
there are very few vessels in which even this limited allow- 
ance is afforded. In many of them, the slaves are obliged to 
lie upon their sides, and none of them can sit upright. Be 
sides this, they are naked ; and they have nothing to lie 
upon but the bare boards : on this account ihey suffer often 
very severely from the motion of the ship, which occasions 
different parts of their bodies to be bruised, and which causes 
their irons to excoriate their legs. 

But their situation is the most deplorable when it blows a 
heavy gale, and when the hatches or gratings are obliged to 
be fastened down. Their sufferings are at this time such as 
no language can describe. They are often heard, on such 
occasions, to cry out in their own language, " We are dying, 
we are dying." The steam which comes at this time from 
their bodies, and which ascends through the little holes of 
the gratings, has been compared by those who have witnessed 
it, to that which issues from a furnace. Many of them, hav- 
ing fainted from heat, stench, and corrupted air, have been 



27 

brought out of the hold upon the deck iu a dying state; 
while others have been brought up quite dead from suffoca- 
tion, who were in perfect health but a few hours before. 

Horrible as this account may appear, we assert, in the 
most solemn manner, that we have omitted to mention many 
circumstances* which would render it still more afflicting ; 
and that we have been cautious in what we have said to keep 
ourselves within the bounds of truth. 

Being deprived, then, generally speaking, of the power 
of a successful resistance, the only hope left them of escap- 
ing from their miseries is in death ; that is, of destroying 
themselves, if any opportunity should offer, and which they 
seize with an avidity almost beyond belief. The most com- 
mon way to which they look is that of being able to throw 
themselves into the sea. But here also every avenue of escape 
by such means is guarded. The men are not only locked to 
the deck, but large nettings are fastened on both sides of the 
ship, which reach from the deck up to a certain height in the 
rigging. But these precautions do not always prove a secu- 
rity. Many and many are the instances in which they de- 
stroy themselves in this manner. 

But if they are prevented from accomplishing their object 
in the way now mentioned, they do not abandon the hope of 
being able to attain it in some other. The deepest foresight 
on the part of their oppressors cannot always prevent the 
means. When ropes have been left carelessly about the ship, 
though not in improper places, several of them, but mostly 
women, have been found suspended to these at different times; 
and when small instruments of iron, or even broken pieces of 
iron, have been left in the same manner, others have been dis- 
covered to have made mortal wounds upon their own bodies ; 
others who have not been able to meet with such opportunities, 
have come to the resolution of refusing all sustenance, in or- 

" See the evidence before the English Parliament, in the cases where the 
slaves have been afflicted with contagious disorders, particularly the flux, 
when, says one of the witnesses, " the floor of their prison was covered with 
blood and mucus, like a slaughter-house." 



28 



der to starve themselves to death ; and though the speculum 
oris, an instrument used in the disorder called the lock jaw, 
has been applied to force open their mouths on such occa- 
sions, they have persisted in their resolution till the tenth or 
eleventh day, at which time death has usually put a period to 
their sufferings.* With respect to others, but particularly 
females, who have been of more delicate temperature both of 
body and mind, or who have had a more lively sense of their 
situation, but less resolution, many are the instances where a 
continually increasing melancholy has ended in madness, and 
where they have continued in that pitiable state for the short 
remainder of their lives. 

Such are the sufferings which the Slave Trade produces to 
its unhappy victims, but the depravity which it engenders in 
those who carry it on, is, if possible, a still more revolting 
feature in its character. The two following occurrences are 
both of recent date, and exhibit with a power beyond that of 
any general description, the tremendous accumulation of 
guilt and misery which attends the progress of the traffic. 

The Rodeur, French vessel, of 200 tons burthen, left 
Havre on the 24th of January, 1819, and anchored in Bonny 
river, on the coast of Africa, in the March following, where 
she took in, contrary to the French law of the abolition of the 
slave trade, a cargo of slaves. On the 6th of April she sailed 
with them for Guadaloupe. Soon after her departure from 
this river, some of the slaves, who had been brought upon 
deck to take the air, took the opportunity of throwing them- 
selves into the sea ; in consequence of which, the captain of 
the Rodeur made a terrible example, by shooting some of 
them and by hanging others. This, however, did not answer 
the end proposed ; and it was found, therefore, necessary to 
keep all of them confined below. In a short time a dread- 
ful ophthalmia was discovered among them, which soon com- 
municated to the crew, and which made such a rapid and 
general progress among the latter, that there was only one of 
* Cries of Africa, p. 27, 28. 



29 

them who could see to steer the vessel. At this moment a 
large ship approached the Rodeur, which appeared to be to- 
tally at the mercy of the wind and waves. The crew of this 
vessel, hearing the voices of the crew of the Rodeur, cried out 
most vehemently for help. They told the melancholy tale, 
as they passed along, that their ship was a Spanish slave ship, 
called the S. Leon, and that a contagion had seized the 
eyes of all on board, so that there was not one indivi- 
dual, either sailor or slave, who could see. But alas ! this 
pitiable narrative was in vain, for no help could be given! 
The S. Leon passed on, and was never more heard of. At 
length, by the skill and perseverance of the only man who 
preserved his sight on board the Rodeur, and by a favour- 
able concurrence of circumstances, the ship reached Guada- 
loupe on the 21st of June. By this time thirty-nine of the. 
slaves had become totally blind, twelve had lost one eye, and 
fourteen were affected with blemishes more or less consider- 
able. Out of the crew, consisting of twenty-two, twelve had 
lost their sight, amongst whom was the surgeon ; five had be^ 
come blind of one eye, among whom was the captain ; and 
four were partially injured. Now, what will the reader think 
was the first thing which the captain and crew of the Rodeur 
did, when they found that they were going to enter into a safe 
port ? Undoubtedly, he will think that they were employed 
in returning thanks to God for this their miraculous deliver- 
ance. But he will be mistaken if he supposes so. Without 
gratitude to God, without mercy to others, without the feel- 
ings of men, the first act which they performed was to throw 
overboard all the poor slaves who were incurably blind, upon 
the plea, first, that if they carried them on shore no one would 
buy them, and consequently that they should have them to 
maintain without any return ; and secondly, that by feigning 
an act of necessity, they might recover their value from the 
underwriters. 

The next year, namely, 1820, furnishes us with another 
occurrence, equally atrocious in its nature, though of a dif- 



30 

ferent cast Sir George Collier was at that time the commo- 
dore of the English squadron cruising in the African seas, to 
prevent the violation of the abolition law, as sanctioned by the 
English Parliament, and by treaties between England and 
other foreign governments. He himself was on board the 
Tartar frigate. In the month of March, he gave chase to a 
vessel which he suspected to be a slave ship. In the course 
of the chase, several casks were observed to be floating in the 
sea, which the Tartar passed, but no person could be spared 
at that moment to go to examine them, In a few hours after- 
wards, the crew of the frigate boarded the vessel which they 
had been pursuing, and she proved to be La Jeune Estelle, 
French vessel, the captain of which was named Olympe San- 
guines. This man, on being questioned, denied that he had 
any slaves on board. He admitted, however, that he had 
had some in his possession a little time before, but that a 
Spanish pirate had seized them and taken them away. There 
was something, however, so disingenuous in his countenance, 
that the chief officer of the Tartar, who had boarded his ves- 
sel, ordered a search to be made in the hold. One of the 
English sailors, on striking a cask, heard a faint voice issue 
from it, as of some creature expiring. The cask was imme- 
diately opened, when two slave girls, about twelve or fourteen 
years of age, were found packed up in it. They were after- 
wards carried on board the Tartar, and thus rescued from a 
most painful death. When they arrived there, they were re- 
cognized by a person who had seen them in their own coun- 
try. This person was then a prisoner on board the Tartar, 
having been taken by the commodore out of another slave ship. 
It appeared from his evidence, that one Captain Richards, 
commanding an American slave ship, had died at a village 
on the coast, called Trade-town, and that he had left behind 
him fourteen slaves, of which these two poor girls had formed 
a part; and that after his death, Captain Olympe Sanguines 
had landed his crew, armed with swords and pistols, and car- 
ried off these fourteen slaves on board La Jeune Estelle. Sir 



31 

George Collier, upon receiving this information, thought it 
right to board the vessel again, in order to find the remaining 
twelve; but, after a strict search, they were nowhere to be 
found. It then struck him and his officers (and a most pain- 
ful consideration it was), that Captain Sanguines, in order to 
prevent his vessel from being seized as a slave ship, had 
packed up the twelve slaves just mentioned, in those casks 
which they had seen floating in the sea, one after another, 
soon after the commencement of the chase. But, alas ! it was 
now too late to ascertain the truth of this conjecture, for the 
chase had then led them many leagues to windward of these 
casks ; and there was no chance whatever that any of the 
slaves who might be enclosed in them would be found alive.* 
Such are the melancholy scenes which are passing in the 
different slave ships, from the time of their leaving the coast 
of Africa, to the time of their arrival in the European colonies. 
During this interval, it is but reasonable to suppose, that a 
considerable mortality takes place among the slaves. Insur- 
rections, suicides, f and diseases (the latter of which arise from 
grief of mind), sudden transitions from heat to cold, filth, 
stench, a putrid atmosphere, and cruel treatment, contribute 
to thin their numbers. It appears from the evidence of re- 
spectable witnesses examined by the English Parliament, that 
out of 7904 -slaves, with whom they themselves sailed at dif- 
ferent times, 2053 perished ; that is, a fourth part of them 
perished, though they were all young and healthy when they 
were brought on board, in the short space of from six to 
eight weeks ! ! What a murderous devastation of the human 
race ! I What an impious rebellion against the will of Provi- 
dence, in the creation of the world ! ! ! If the rest of mankind 
were to perish in this proportion, all the inhabitants on the 
earth would be extinct in a few years ! ! ! 



" See Sapplement to the Report of the African Institution for the year 
1821. 

•f This violation of the laws of the Creator, on the part of these unhappy 
people, is a new crime, which falls upon the heads of the European slave- 
traders. 



32 

These instances are sufficient : they shew, without having 
recourse to others, the corruptive nature of this traffic upon 
the human heart. The effects which it produces are regular 
and certain. They are the same in whatever age or by what- 
ever people it may be carried on. They are irresistible ; so 
that neither public opinion, nor the improvement of one age 
above another, nor the superior refinement of any parti- 
cular people, can withstand their influence. They shew, 
therefore (what it is peculiarly desirable to know), that there 
is no remedy for the evils complained of, but the total Aboli- 
tion of the Trade. No human regulation can do them away, 
because no human regulation can change the human heart. 



In the year 1807, Great Britain and the United States of 
America passed laws entirely prohibiting the trade in all its 
branches, to their respective subjects; and in 1810, Portugal 
consented to prescribe local limits to her share of it, in that 
part of the African Continent which lies to the north of the 
Equator. 

These important measures, being aided at that time by the 
right of visitation, which the existing state of war conferred 
on the belligerent nations, produced a very considerable ef- 
fect. A partial cessation of the Slave Trade took place along 
a large portion of the African coast ; and on that part of it 
which extends from Senegal to the Gold Coast, few traces of 
this odious traffic remained. 

This interval of local rest from the ravages of the Slave 
Trade, short as it unhappily was, served abundantly to con- 
firm the anticipation of wise and good men. The western 
shores of northern Africa were already beginning to exhibit a 
new and more cheering aspect. The pursuits of peaceful in- 
dustry, and the arts of civilized life, joined to the diffusion of 
religious knowledge, were, slowly indeed, but progressively, 
repairing the desolating and barbarizing mischiefs of the 
Slave Trade — when the scene was suddenly changed. 

No sooner was peace proclaimed, than the traders in hu- 
man blood hastened from various quarters to the African 



33 

shores, arid, with a cupidity sharpened by past restraint, re* 
newed their former crimes. 

Among the rest, the slave merchants of France, who had 
been excluded for upwards of twenty years, from any direct 
participation in this murderous traffic, now resumed it ; and 
to this very hour they continue openly to Carry it on, notwith- 
standing the solemn renunciation of it by their own govern- 
ment in 1815, and the prohibitory French laws which have 
since been passed to restrain them. 

But let it not be supposed that it has beeh by Frenchmen 
alone that this dreadful scourge has been inflicted upon Afri- 
ca. Traders of other nations, assuming the flag which best 
suited their nefarious purposes, have crowded the shores of 
'Africa, and filled their ships with the wretched victims of the 
crimes which they excited. Not only have the Portuguese 
and Spaniards been extensively engaged in these enterprizes, 
but citizens of the United States, of Holland, and of Great 
Britain also, disguising themselves under the flag of some 
other country, have deeply participated in this work of de- 
struction. It would admit of proof, that probably at no pe- 
riod of the existence of this opprobrious traffic, has Africa suf- 
fered more intensely from its ravages, than during a part of 
the time which has elapsed since the re-establishment of the 
peace of the civilized world. The bad men of all other coun- 
tries appear to have combined to blast the improvement and 
happiness of Africa, and to have joined in a malignant con- 
spiracy to frustrate all the merciful purposes of their sove- 
reigns towards that ill-fated quarter of the globe.* 

In support of these assertions, we subjoin the following 
authentic evidence; relating wholly to transactions of a very 
recent date : — 

Extract of a Letter from Guadaloupe. 

" We enclose a note, which proves the continuation of 
the cruelties towards the unhappy Africans. I answer for its 

* See a Pamphlet entitled " Statements Illustrative of the Slave Trade," &c. 



34 



authenticity. There are strong cruisers stationed to seize the 
slavers ; but they laugh at them, and always reach the port ; 
one might almost say that they protect them. 

" The schooner Louisa, Captain Arnaud, arrived at L'Anse 
a la barque, in the quarter of St. Anne, Guadaloupe, in the 
early part of the month of April, 1824, with a cargo of 200 
negroes. The number first embarked was 275. As the ves- 
sel could not transport so large a number, the others were 
thrown alive into the sea by the captain. Nature shudders 
at such atrocities." 

Extract of a Letter from Captain Forbes, of his Majesty's 
sloop Thracian, to Vice-Admiral Sir L. W. Halsted, 
K.C.B. Commander in Chief, dated Port- Royal Harbour, 
October 22, 1824. 

" I think it necessary likewise to inform you, sir, that Mr. 
Kilbee, the British Commissary Judge, assured me that 37 
vessels had cleared out this year from the Havannah, evi- 
dently intended, by their appearance, for the Slave Trade ; 
indeed, 1 had it from good information, that seven sailed in one 
day for that destination while I was there, and the Columbian 
privateers had captured three lately with slaves actually on 
board." 

Extract from the Sierra Leone Advertiser. 

" Freetown, Saturday, November 20, 1824. 
a We regret never having before inspected the numerous 
slave ships which have arrived here, in order to ascertain 
whether they answered the description set forth in their pa- 
pers. The following particulars relative to three vessels taken 
by our squadron for being engaged in this horrible commerce, 
and lately brought into our harbour for adjudication in the 
British and Portuguese Court of Mixed Commission, will, we 
feel assured, astonish even our readers, who have unhappily 
had too many opportunities of witnessing the misery which 



35 

this traffic imposes upon its defenceless and unfortunate vic- 
tims. 

" The ' Diana.' 1 — This vessel is stated, in the Royal Pass- 
port, to be 120 tons burthen; and permitted, by this passport, 
in accordance with the Alvara of his Most Faithful Majesty, 
under date of the 24th of November, 1813, to carry 300 
slaves, being at the rate of five to every two tons. On being 
inspected, she is found to admeasure only 66 tons, 52-94 
fourths English measurement, and therefore authorised to 
take at the rate of five to each ton. The surface of the men's 
slave-room is only 480 feet, and 2 feet 7 inches in height; 
and that of the women, 103 feet surface, and 3 feet 11 inches 
high ; yet on board this vessel there were actually shipped at 
Badagry, for the passage to the Brazils, 156 human victims, 
besides her crew, 18 in number. 

" The ' Two Brazilian Friends.'' — This vessel is also 
stated, by a like document, to be 146 tons, and being simi- 
larly licenced, might carry 365 slaves. On inspection, she is 
found to be only 95 tons, 59-94 fourths, and consequently in 
like manner authorized to carry at the rate of four to each ton. 
The surface of the platform for the men is 615 feet, and the 
height 2 feet 6 inches; that of the women 148 feet 8 inches 
surface, and 3 feet 10 inches in height. Onboard this vessel 
there were actually shipped at Badagry, for passage to the 
Brazils, 260 unfortunate Africans, besides her crew, 18 in 
number. 

" The ' Avizo.' — This vessel is, by a similar document, 
asserted to be 231 tons, and by her licence might carry 580 
slaves. On examining her, it is ascertained that she is only 
165 tons, 28-94 fourths, and therefore might carry at the rate 
of more than 5 to a ton. The surface of the men's room is 
861 feet, height of ditto, 3 feet 2 inches ; that of the women 
is 215 feet surface, and the same height as the men's. 465 
wretched beings were stowed onboard this vessel at the same 
port, for passage to the Brazils, besides her crew, 33 in 
number. 



*' We have here 328 tons of shipping, iicenced to carry 
1245, and actually conveying from the coast 881 slaves, being 
(in these three vessels) at the rate of 1 1 to every 4 tons, be- 
sides the men navigating them, and the water and provisions 
necessary for so great a number of people for the voyage, to- 
gether with their boats and ships' stores. As the men and 
women thus embarked were 7 12 in number, and supposing the 
children, both boys and girls, to be either always kept on 
deck, or confined to the long boat (as is the practice), still 
only a little more than 3| square feet was allowed for each 
adult African thus shipped — a space which, we should sup- 
pose, no human being could long exist in ; and, indeed, the 
number of deaths, and the emaciated state of the survivors, 
too fully prove this to be the case. From the crowded state 
of these vessels, we do not hesitate to say, that it would be 
impossible to cram the number on board which the authorities 
of the Brazils (by sanctioning these false descriptions of the 
vessels) give the masters permission to take ; it is, therefore, 
to a certain extent useless, although proving to the world that 
this government, not content with allowing their subjects to 
carry on the odious traffic, sanction such means of doing so 
as aggravate the misery of the unfortunate victims thus forced 
away from their families and country. We shall make no fur- 
ther remarks on this painful subject, satisfied that such cruel 
deception as is clearly shown to be sanctioned by this power, 
who is thus adding further horrors to the already detestable 
slave trade, will not be overlooked by our government, who 
are no doubt in possession of the facts from our gallant Com- 
modore and his officers. Further particulars relative to the 
property and proceedings of these vessels will be given in our 
next. 

" The French Slave Trade has lately most considerably 
increased in the rivers Bonny and Old Calabar. Several new 
vessels have arrived, and many laden with full cargoes of hu- 
man victims have left under the white flag, and manned by 
Frenchmen, although the capital embarked is ostensibly Spa- 



37 

nish. In order that our readers may judge oT the barbarity 
and want of feeling evinced by these subjects of an enlight- 
ened nation, which publicly disavows such horrible and infa- 
mous conduct, we desire to make known that Le Louis, com- 
manded by one Oiseau, on completing her cargo of slaves in 
the Old Calabar, a few weeks since, without the slightest 
spark of humanity in him, thrust the whole of these unfortu- 
nate beings between decks (a height of only three feet) and 
closed the hatches for the night. When morning made its 
appearance, fifty of the poor sufferers had paid the debt of 
nature, owing to the confined, diseased, and putrid atmos- 
phere they were condemned to respire ! The wretch coolly 
ordered the bodies of these miserable victims of his total want 
of human feeling, to be thrown into the river, and immedi- 
ately proceeded on shore to complete his execrable cargo by 
fresh purchases of his fellow-creatures. To detail all the in- 
formation we have received relative to the enormities com- 
mitted by these dealers in human flesh, who feel they are 
protected by the nation they claim and the flag they hoist, 
would horrify any but slave- dealers, who seem naturally cal- 
lous to every feeling which ennobles mankind ; suffice it to 
say, they are heart-rending, and would disgrace the most un- 
enlightened savage." 

On the eastern coast of Africa the ravages of the Slave 
Trade are also very great, and from the greater length of 
the voyage, a still greater sacrifice of human life takes place 
in transporting the slaves to America. 

Extract of a Letter from Captain Owen to J. W. Croker, 
Esq. dated on board his Majesty's ship Leven, Mozam- 
bique, 9th of October, 1823. 

" It is my duty to state, for the information of my Lords 
of the Admiralty, that on the eastern coast of Africa the Slave 
Trade has recently received a new impulse for the supply of 
Brazil. It would appear, that this diabolical commerce is* 

D 



38 

the only one capable of inspiring its miserable remains of 
Portuguese population with energy and activity. There are 
in this port seven vessels preparing their cargoes for Rio de 
Janeiro ; one of them of about six hundred tons, to carry 
1,200 slaves. The export of slaves from this port cannot be 
less than 15,000 annually. 

" AtQuilliman, 16 vessels have taken cargoes within the 
last year, amounting to 10,000 ; and the new order of things 
brought about by the revolutions in Portugal and Brazils, has 
opened the ports of Quilliman and Inhamban to a direct 
communication with the latter, which enables them to carry 
on this abominable traffic more advantageously and to great- 
er extent. 

" From Inhamban, however, the trade in slaves is very 
limited, compared with that of Mozambique and Quilliman, 
the neighbouring tribes being very averse to it; nevertheless 
wars are excited solely to make slaves to pay for merchandize. 
The same also occurs at English River to a still smaller ex- 
tent, yet sufficiently so to keep the neighbouring tribes in a 
ferment and continual state of warfare. The price of a slave 
at Quilliman, Inhamban, and Delagoa, rarely exceeds two or 
three Spanish dollars to the Portuguese, who get for them 
perhaps twenty or thirty from the vessels ; much of their gain 
is necessarily expended for their intermediate subsistence, 
which, however, is scarcely enough to hang soul and body 
together; and the ships which use this traffic consider they 
make an excellent voyage if they save one-third of the 
number embarked to sell at Rio for 150 or 200 Spanish dol- 
lars each: some vessels are so fortunate as to save one half 
of their cargo alive, and their gains become a strong motive 
to more extensive speculations ! !" 

Did the limits of the present publication admit, it would 
be easy to confirm the foregoing statements by numerous ex- 
amples of a similar nature, drawn entirely from official docu- 
ments, and all tending to prove that the Slave Trade is not 
only as atrociously and as extensively carried on as ever, but 



39 

that it is annually on the increase. The returns of the num- 
ber of Slaves brought during two successive years into one 
port of South America alone, Rio de Janeiro, are an addition- 
al confirmation of this fact, and form, at the same time, con- 
clusive evidence of the present extent of the traffic. 

In 1821 there were imported 21,199 

1822 24,934 

Being an increase of 3,735 in one year in the importations 
of a single port in Brazil,* 

But the following documents present us with a still more 
comprehensive view of the state of the Trade at a recent period, 
and will, it is believed, render any further evidence unneces- 
sary. 

In a Report to the Congress of the United States of North 
America, dated February 9, 1821, it is said — " The exten- 
sion of the trade for the last twenty-five or thirty years must, 
in degree, be conjectural, but the best information that can 
be obtained on the subject, furnishes good foundation to be- 
lieve, that during that period the number of slaves withdrawn 
from western Africa alone, amounts to upwards of one mil- 
lion and a half. The annual average would be a mean some- 
where between 50 and 80,000." 

Captain Leeke, commander of the sloop Myrmidon, in a 
letter dated Sierra Leone, November 7, 1821, addressed to 
Commodore Sir Robert Mends, says — " From the river Cala- 
bar there had sailed, within the last eighteen months, 177 
vessels with full cargoes ; more than the half of them were 
under the French flag, the others, Spaniards and Portugueze. 
These accounts have been given me, not only from the kings 
and chiefs of the rivers, but from those who were actual eye- 
witnesses of the shipments and sailing of the unfortunate ne- 
groes. Thus you will perceive that this horrid traffic has 
been carried on to an extent that almost staggers belief. The 
vessels [126] reported in my last to have left the river Bonny 

* Sec Mrs. Graham's Brazil, p. 220, 229. 

d2 



40 



between the months of July and November, 1820, with 86 
that have already sailed this year, added to these, with 35 
from the Bimbia and Cameroons, will make their number 
424, many of them carrying from 500 to 1000 slaves: and 
by allowing only the very moderate average of 250 to each 
vessel, will make 106,000 slaves exported from four of the 
northernmost rivers in the Bight of Biafra, in the short space 
of eighteen months, and by far the largest half in vessels bear- 
ing the French flag." 

Who can form even a faint idea of the accumulated 
wretchedness that must have been the lot of those unhappy 
beings who were in this unrighteous manner subjected to ig- 
nominy, distress, and many of them to death ? In addition 
to this, deceit, lying, perjury, and robbery, mark the conduct 
of those engaged in the trade : it deadens all the kind and 
benevolent dispositions of man, and renders him hard-hearted, 
brutal, and savage. When are these scenes of cruelty to ter- 
minate? How long is man to traffic in human blood, and 
thus to disgrace his species ?* 

We have now sketched the history of this persecuted 
race during the period in which it has been the victim of the 
barbarous cupidity of the civilized world, and have given 
some idea of the sum of affliction and crime which Africa has 
received from the enlightened nations of the earth. We ap- 
peal to all who can justly estimate the disadvantage of seeing 
negro capacity and negro morality only under a system which 
brutalizes even barbarians — a system which silences the 
kindliest and gentlest impulses of the human heart, and in- 
vests with demoniac strength every propensity to evil, — whe- 
ther, even from the scanty materials thus afforded, incontro- 
vertible evidence does not remain of a nature as bountifully 
endowed as our own. Slavery has carried on its fiend-like 
work by causing vices to coalesce which have no natural 
affinity, by bringing into unnatural combination the evils of 

* See Statement, &c. 



41 



two distinct stages of society, and all that it has borne to 
Africa of the boasted acquirements of civilized life, has been 
a masterly skill in the contrivance, and an unhesitating dar- 
ing in the commission of crime, which the mind of a savage 
was too simple to devise and his heart too gentle to execute. 
Yet even from a desert so sterile in all that is good, so dis- 
tinguished by the darkest features of sin and misery, enough 
may be collected to prove the existence of a soul capable of 
yielding rich produce, had it been cultivated by benevolent 
skill instead of being devastated by senseless barbarity. 



"We now follow the afflicted Negro to the Land of his 
Oppression, and commence a melancholy era in his history, 
on beholding him within the realms of Slavery, with the chain 
of bondage rivetted upon him, 

CONDITION OF THE NEGRO SLAVES IN THE 
WEST INDIES AND AMERICA. 

In the Colonies of Great Britain there are at this moment 
upwards of 800,000 human beings in a state of degrading 
personal slavery. 

These unhappy persons, whether young or old, male or 
female, are the absolute property of their master, who may 
sell or transfer them at his pleasure, and who may also re- 
gulate according to his discretion (within certain limits) the 
measure of their labour, their food, and their punishment. 

Many of the slaves are (and all may be) branded like cat- 
tle, by means of a hot iron, on the shoulder or other conspi- 
cuous part of the body, with the initials of their master's 
name ; and thus bear about them, in indelible characters, the 
proof of their debased and servile state. 

The slaves, whether male or female, are driven to labour 
by the impulse of the cart-whip, for the sole benefit of their 
owners; from whom they receive no wages ; andthis labour 



42 

is continued (with certain intermissions for breakfast and 
dinner) from morning to night throughout the year. 

In the season of crop (which lasts for four or five months of 
the year) their labour is protracted not only throughout the 
day, as at other times, but during half the night, or the whole 
of every alternate night. 

Besides being generally made to work under the lash, 
without wages, the slaves are further obliged to labour for 
their own maintenance on that day which ought to be devoted 
to repose and religious instruction. And as that day is also 
iheir only market-day, it follows, that " Sunday shines no 
Sabbath-day to them," but is of necessity a day of worldly 
occupation and much bodily exertion. 

The Colonial Laws arm the master, or any one to whom he 
may delegate his authority, with a power to punish his slaves 
to a certain extent, without the intervention of the magistrate, 
and without any responsibility for the use of this tremendous 
discretion ; and to that extent he may punish them for any 
, offence, or for no offence. These discretionary punishments 
are usually inflicted on the naked body with the cart-whip, 
an instrument of dreadful severity, which cruelly lacerates 
the flesh of the sufferer. Even the unhappy females are 
equally liable with the men to have their persons thus shame- 
lessly exposed and barbarously tortured at the caprice of 
their master or overseer. 

The slaves being regarded in the eye of the law as mere 
chattels, they are liable to be seized in execution for their 
master's debts, and, without any regard to the family ties 
which may be broken by this oppressive and merciless pro- 
cess, to be sold by auction to the highest bidder, who may re- 
move them, to a distant part of the same colony, or even exile 
them to another colony. 

Marriage, that blessing of civilized and even of savage 
life, is protected in the case of the slaves by no legal sanction. 
It cannot be said to exist among them. Those, therefore, 
who live together as man and wife, are liable to be separated 



43 



by the caprice of their master, or by sale for the satisfaction 
of his creditors. 

The slaves in general have little or no access to the means 
of Christian instruction. 

The effect of the want of such instruction, as well as of 
the absence of any marriage tie, is, that the most unrestrained 
licentiousness (exhibited in a degrading, disgusting, and de- 
populating promiscuous intercourse) prevails almost univer- 
sally among the slaves ; and is encouraged no less univer- 
sally by the example of their superiors, the whites. 

The evidence of slaves is not admitted by the Colonial 
Courts, in any civil or criminal case affecting a person of free 
condition. If a white man, therefore, perpetrates the most 
atrocious acts of barbarity in the presence of slaves only, the 
injured party is left without any means of legal redress. 

In none of the Colonies of Great Britain have those legal 
facilities been afforded to the slave to purchase his own free- 
dom, which have produced such extensively beneficial effects 
in the colonial possessions of Spain and Portugal; where the 
slaves have been manumitted in large numbers, not only 
without injury, but with benefit to the master, and with de- 
cided advantage to the public peace and safety. On the 
contrary, in many of our colonies even the voluntary manu- 
mission of slaves by their masters has been obstructed, and 
in some rendered nearly impossible, by large fines. 

It is an universal principle of Colonial Law, that all black 
or coloured persons are presumed and taken to be slaves, un- 
less they can legally prove the contrary. The liberty, there- 
fore, even of free persons is thus often greatly endangered, 
and sometimes lost. They are liable to be apprehended as 
runaway slaves ; and they are further liable, as such, to be 
sold into endless bondage, if they fail to do that which, 
though free, nay, though born perhaps in Great Britain itself, 
they may be unable to do— namely, to establish the fact of 
their freedom by such evidence as the colonial laws require. 



44 

Let it be remembered also, that many thousand infants 
are annually born within the British dominions to no inhe- 
ritance but that of the hapless, hopeless servitude which has 
been described ; and the general oppressiveness of which 
might be inferred from this striking and most opprobrious 
fact alone, that while in the United States of America the 
slaves increase rapidly — so rapidly as to double their num- 
ber in twenty years — there is, even now, in the British colo- 
nies, no increase, but on the contrary a diminution of their 
numbers.* 

In order to illustrate the above statements., we subjoin a 
few extracts from a recent work, entitled " The West Indies 
as they Are," by the Rev. Richard Bickell, late Naval Chap- 
lain at Port Royal, &c. 

" The time of labour for the slaves, generally, is from 
sunrising to sunsetting, viz. from five o'clock to seven one 
half the year, and from six to six, or thereabout, the other 
half. They are generally summoned from their slumbers by 
the cracking of the driver's whip, about half an hour before 
daylight ; which whip, as it is pretty long and heavy, makes 
the valleys resound and the welkin ring with its alarming 
sounds, and woe be to the hapless slave who does not lend a 
willing ear and speedy footsteps to its repeated calls. If he 
be absent at roll-call, the judge, juror, and executioner, all 
stand by him in the shape of an inexorable driver, and, with- 
out any defence or leave of appeal, he is subjected to the 
lash. Nor will a trifling excuse serve the black female : she 
makes the best of her way to take her place, her unequal 
share of the task, by the strong-armed and stout-made man, 
in the well dressed-up rank of the gang. Should she be too 
late, her sex and slender form, or gentle nature, will not 
avail ; but, as if devoid of feeling, she is laid down by force, 
and punished with stripes on those parts which in women for 

* See Brief View, &c. 



45 

decency^ sake, ought never to be exposed. Siirely nature is 
outraged at such devilish indelicacies. 

" Out of this time is allowed half an hour for breakfast, 
and two hours for dinner, but many overseers have the first 
shell blown for dinner at half past twelve o'clock, and the 
second at two to go to the field again, as they are not very 
particular when they are busy in crop, or wish to have a cer- 
tain quantity of work done. Independent of this alsOj in 
crop-time, the gangs are divided, and one half must work at 
night whilst the other half sleeps ; though on some estates, 
where they have great strength, as they term it (viz. where 
the negroes are more numerous than strict necessity requires 
for the quantity of land in cultivation), the whole number is 
divided into three parts ; so that on most sugar estates the 
slaves work one half the year three nights in the week, inde- 
pendent of the days, and on the others two nights a week. 
With respect to the hardness of the labour, it is not greater 
than (perhaps not so great as) our husbandmen are accus- 
tomed to in England ; nor do I think it possible for any men 
to work so hard in a tropical climate as they could in a cold 
one ; but the length of time that they are employed, viz. 
eleven or twelve hours, besides the night- work, is more than 
was intended for man to bear, and must hasten debility and 
old age. For the poor women it is a great deal too much, as 
their frail frames cannot stand it many years." — Pp. 47 — 50* 
" The constant use of the whip is also a principal cause of 
one of the greatest hardships in West Indian slavery, for 
seeing that work is their only portion, they are, as I before 
observed, inclined to be indolent, and a driver is continually 
after them in the field, to flog them with his heavy whip, if 
they do not work so hard as he thinks they ought. It is cer- 
tainly a most degrading sight to see one fellow-creature fol- 
lowing twenty, thirty, or forty others, and every now and 
then lashing them as he would a team of horses or mules ; 
but this is not all, for if any one offends more than ordinarily, 
master driver, who has almost unlimited power, takes him -or- 



46 



her from the ranks, and, having two or three strong negroes 
to hold the culprit down, lays on twenty or thirty lashes with 
all his might. Thirty-nine is the number specified by law, 
beyond which even a white man cannot legally go in one 
day ; but I have seen a black driver lay on most unmercifully 
upwards of forty at one time, whilst his fellow-slave was 
crying out for mercy so that he could be heard a quarter of a 
mile from the spot." — Pp. 12, 13. 

Mr. Cooper observes that he never saw a negro who did 
not exhibit marks of violence, that is to say, traces of the 
whip, in his body. 

" Another of the evils of slavery is, that the slaves are 
so degraded and depressed in the eye of the law as not to be 
considered persons, but mere animals or chattels; so that 
they can be sold, not only at the will and pleasure of their 
masters or owners, to any other person, at any part of the 
island, but can be seized and sold for debt, by a writ of exe- 
cution, and exposed for sale at a public auction to the best 
bidder. Many a bitter cry is heard when the Marshal's de- 
puties (dogs as they are emphatically called) are sent to hunt 
down and seize the victim or victims, and drive or drag them 
away to the workhouse, or gaol, till the day of sale arrives, 
which is to deprive them of their little homes, the gardens 
they have cultivated, the acquaintances they have made, and 
all the little comforts which make even slavery, in some 
measure, tolerable. This hardship is much increased when 
slaves are married, or have families, as the woman may be 
separated from her husband, or parents from their children; 
for here the tenderest ties of nature are broken in an instant, 
and the wife's, or mother's, or children's cries would not be 
in the least attended to, nor heeded, any more than the 
moans of so many [brute] animals." — Pp. 16, 17. 

The truth of these statements is amply confirmed by the 
advertisements for the sale of negroes in every Colonial Ga- 
zette. We extract two or three, among many others, from 
the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of June 15, 1823. • 



47 

April 26, 1823. " For sale, fifteen valuable young Ne- 
groes, together or singly, to suit purchasers." 

May 10, 1823. " Notice is hereby given, that on Tues- 
day next I will put up to public sale, a Negro woman, named 
Violet, a Creole, accustomed to all sorts of work, levied upon 
for taxes due, by G. H. Swift." 

" Quasheba, a black, a drudge, age 28 years, belonging 
to Solomon Isaac." 

It has indeed been confidently affirmed, that the law of 
Jamaica forbids the separation of families by sale. There is, 
however, no such law. And if there were, yet in practice it 
is obviously violated every day. There is a law indeed, that 
when persons of the same family are seized by the marshal, 
they shall be sold together. But what law can ensure their 
being seized, as well as sold together ? And even this law is- 
no restraint on the power of the proprietor. He may sell 
fifteen young negroes, either together or singly, as best suits 
his interest. And then to look at the sales by the marshal or 
tax-gatherer : had Quasheba or Violet no relations or connec- 
tions, their ties with whom were torn asunder ? Had the in- 
fants of six or eight years, sold singly, no parent, no brother,, 
no sister ? These facts speak volumes. 

The following occurrence, related by Mr. Gilgrass, a me- 
thodist missionary, is decisive as to the absolute and uncon- 
troulable right of property vested in the slave-holder. 

" A master of slaves who lived near us, in Kingston, Ja- 
maica, exercised his barbarities on a Sabbath morning, while 
we were worshipping God in the chapel ; and the cries of the 
female sufferers have frequently interrupted us in our devo- 
tions. But there was no redress for them or for us. This 
man wanted money ; and one of the female slaves having two 
fine children, he sold one of them, and the child was torn 
from her maternal affection. In the agony of her feelings,, 
she made a hideous howling, and for that crime was flogged. 
Soon after he sold her other child. This ' turned her heart 
within her,' and impelled her into a kind of madness. She 



48 

howled night and day in the yard ; tore her hair ; ran up and 
down the streets and the parade, rending the heavens with 
her cries and literally watering the earth with her tears. Her 
constant cry was, ' Da wicked massa Jew, he sell my chil- 
dren. Will no Buckra massa pity Negar? What me do? 
Me no have one child /' As she stood before the window, 
she said, lifting up her hands towards heaven, ' My massa, 
do my massa minister, pity me ! My heart do so' (shaking 
her head), ' my heart do so, because me have no child. Me 
go to massa house, in massa yard, and in my hut, and me no 
see 'em/ And then her cry went up to God."* 

We shall give further evidence of the present condition of 
the slaves in our Colonies, by a few short extracts from the 
returns of the Fiscal of Berbice (a magistrate appointed to 
redress the grievances of the slaves), printed by order of the 
House of Commons, 23d of June, 1825. 

A negro woman, named Laura, belonging to plantation 
Reliance, with a very young child at the breast, complains 
that she is not allowed to take her child to the field to give 
it the breast now and then, but is obliged to leave it with an 
old woman at home. When she steals from her work to the 
child and is discovered, the manager flogs her. She brought 
this child into the world with great pain ; it is of a weakly 
constitution, and requires a mother's care, which she is not 
allowed to bestow. The manager does not deny any of the 
above facts, only says, that the women with young children 
are not required to come out till half past six in the morn- 
ing, and they quit the field at half past ten, return to the 
field at half past one, and leave it at half past five. 

The complaints are more frequent from Sandvoot, for- 
merly one of the crown estates, than from any other planta- 
tion. " Carolus says he is sick and swelling, and that he 
cannot work though willing. When he complains of sick- 
ness, the manager licks him, instead of helping him. Yes- 

* Watson's Defence of Methodists, p. 26. 



49 

terday lie was twice licked." (P. 33.) — " Amsterdam says 
he is afflicted with pains in his bones ; he does his best, but 
cannot work as others who are healthy. Mr. Cameron licks 
him with a horse-whip, curses him, and when he goes to the 
hospital drives him away." (P. 34). — Mietje (and her child 
Mars). " She says she is willing to work when healthy. 
She went yesterday sick to the hospital. Instead of getting 
physic she received a flogging. She is still sick, and has 
come to complain." 

Mr. Grade, the manager of plantation l'Esperance, is 
charged by the slaves with various delinquencies. A preg- 
nant woman, named Rosa, was employed picking coffee with 
some other women. Thinking they did not pick enough or 
well, Mr. Grade ordered the driver Zondag to flog them. The 
driver did so. Rosa had previously objected to working, 
as being too big, and being unable to stoop ; but the mana- 
ger overruled the objection, and she went to pick coffee on 
her knees. When Zondag came to her, he said to the mana- 
ger, " This woman is big with child." The manager replied, 
" Give it to her till the blood flies out." She was flogged 
with the whip doubled. This was on a Friday. She was 
sent to the field on Saturday, but being seized with pains in 
her loins, was sent to the hospital. The doctor examined 
her, and ordered her to the field again. On Sunday she was 
delivered of a dead child, after a severe labour. The child's 
arm was broken, and one eye was bruised and sunk in the 
head. This woman had had seven children before by one 
husband. The driver, Zondag, and several others, confirmed 
the above statement. The driver being particularly asked, 
whether on his representing that Rosa was pregnant, the 
manager had used the expression, " never mind, flog her till 
the blood comes," replied " Yes." (Pp. 25 — 27.) 

Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C. 
Jones. " Says Mr. Jones took her out of the barracks on 
Tuesday ; after I got home, he sent me to Mr. Henery ; he 
would not buy me. He sent me to another gentleman. I 



50 

do not know his name, but he lives in town : they both said 
my master asked too much money for me, and sent me back. 
I begged for a pass to look for an owner ; he said no, he 

would put me down and cut my , and would give me 

more than the law gives. I was then laid down and tied to 
three stakes, and Chance flogged me with a cart-whip ; I got 
a severe flogging ; I saw Mr. Layfield at his door with ano- 
ther gentleman, and Mr. Kerschner the baker, saw it from 
his window. Mr. Jones bought me from Mr. Logie, of De- 
merara. I have marks of severe punishment visible on me, 
old and recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones. 

Exhibits her posteriors, which are covered with a plaister, 
by order of the doctor, and apparently lacerated to that de- 
gree, that the court judged it expedient to direct her not to 
uncover it. 

Mr. Jones said he had flogged her, and broke her mouth 
for her insolence. He had thirty-nine laid on her, and they 
werexuell inflicted. When he sent for her he had no inten- 
tion of flogging her ; but after sending her to three persons 
for sale and not succeeding, he told her she had often de- 
served a flogging: he then directed her to be flogged, and 
that they should be well laid on, which was done. 

We cannot spare room for any further extracts, but we 
believe they will be unnecessary. 

Should the reader wish to be furnished with additional 
evidence upon this subject, he is referred to the Report from 
which the above is taken, and to the following publica- 
tions : — 

Delineation of Colonial Slavery. By James Stephen, 
Esq. 

Negro Slavery as it exists in the United States and the 
West Indies, especially in Jamaica. 1320. 

The Slave Colonies of Great Britain, or a Picture of Ne- 
gro Slavery drawn by the Colonists themselves. 1825. 

The West Indies as they Are. By the Rev. R. Bick- 
ell. 



51 

If from the West Indies we pass to the United States of 
America, we find Slavery existing in a milder form, but still 
attended with the same debasing influence upon the charac- 
ter of the master, and the same injustice and oppression to 
the slave. 

The following anecdote is extracted from a work entitled 
" Letters from Virginia, by a Virginian," quoted in Hall's 
Travels in the United States : — 

" I took the boat this morning, and crossed the ferry 
over to Portsmouth, the small town which I told you is oppo- 
site to this place- It was court-day, and a large crowd of 
people was gathered about the door of the court-house. I 
had hardly got upon the steps to look in, when my ears were 
assailed by the voice of singing, and turning round to disco- 
ver from what quarter it came, I saw a group of about thirty 
negroes, of different sizes and ages, following a rough-looking 
white man, who sat carelessly lolling in his sulky. They had 
just turned round the corner, and were coming up the main 
street to pass by the spot where I stood, on their way out of 
town. As they came nearer, I saw some of them loaded with 
chains to prevent their escape ; while others had hold of each 
other's hands, strongly grasped, as if to support themselves 
in their affliction. I particularly noticed a poor mother, with 
an infant sucking at her breast as she walked along, while 
two small children had hold of her apron on either side, al- 
most running to keep up with the rest. They came along 
singing a little wild hymn, of sweet and mournful melody, 
flying, by a divine instinct of the heart, to the consolation of 
religion, the last refuge of the unhappy, to support them in 
their distress. The sulky now stopped before the tavern, at a 
little distance beyond the court-house, and the driver got 
out. " My dear sir," said I to a person who stood near me, 
" can you tell me what these poor people have been doing? 
what is their crime ? and what is to be their punishment?" 
" O," said he, " it is nothing at all but a parcel of negroes 
sold to Carolina; and that man is their driver, who has 



52 

bought them." " But what have they done, that they should 
be sold into banishment ?" " Done !" said he, " nothing at 
all that I know of; their masters wanted money, I suppose, 
and these drivers give good prices." Here the driver, having 
supplied himself with brandy, and his horse with water (the 
poor negroes of course wanted nothing), stepped into his 
chair again, cracked his whip, and drove on, while the miser- 
able exiles followed in funeral procession behind him." 

The following is from Mr. Birkbeck's Notes on a Journey 
in America : — 

" May 10. I saw two female slaves and their children 
sold by auction in the street; an incident of common occur- 
rence here, though horrifying to myself and many other stran- 
gers. I could hardly bear to see them handled and examined 
like cattle ; and when I heard their sobs, and saw the big 
tears roll down their cheeks at the thoughts of being sepa- 
rated, I could not refrain from weeping with them. In sell- 
ing these unhappy beings, little regard is had to the parting 
of the nearest relations. Virginia prides itself on the com- 
parative mildness of its treatment of the slaves ; and, in fact, 
they increase in numbers, many being annually supplied from 
this state to those further south, where the treatment is said 
to be much more severe. There are regular dealers who buy 
them up, and drive them in gangs, chained together, to a 
southern market. I am informed that few weeks pass with- 
out some of them being marched through this place. A tra- 
veller told me, that he saw, two weeks ago, one hundred and 
twenty sold by auction in the streets of Richmond, and that 
they filled the air with their lamentations." 

But an extract from Fearon's Travels in America will still 
more clearly illustrate the total disregard to the social rights 
and individual sufferings of the Negro, which prevails in the 
Slave States. 

The scene is laid at Lawe's hotel, at Middletown, in Ken- 
tucky. " A few minutes before dinner, my attention was ex- 
cited by the piteous cries of a human voice, accompanied with 



53 

the loud cracking of a whip. Following the sound, I found 
that it issued from a log-barn, the door of which was fasten- 
ed. Peeping through the logs, I perceived the bar-keeper 
of the tavern, together with a stout man, more than six feet 

high, who was called Colonel , and a negro boy 

about fourteen years of age, stripped naked, receiving the 
lashes of these monsters, who relieved each other in the use 
of a horsewhip ; the poor boy fell down upon his knees seve- 
ral times, begging and praying that they would not kill him, 
and that he would do any thing they liked ; this produced 
no cessation in their exercise. At length Mr. Lawes, the 
master of the hotel, arrived, told the valiant colonel and his 
humane employer, the bar-keeper, to desist, and that the 
boy's refusal to cut wood was in obedience to his (Mr. L.'s) 

directions. Colonel said, that 'he did not know 

what the Niggar had done, but that the bar-keeper requested 
his assistance to whip Csesar. Of course he lent him a hand, 
being no more than he should expect Mr. Lawes to do for 
him under similar circumstances. 

" At table Mr. Lawes said, that he had not been so vexed 
for seven years. This expression gave me pleasure, and also 
afforded me, as I thought, an opportunity to reprobate the 
general system of slavery; but not one voice joined with 
mine ; each gave vent in the following language to the su- 
perabundant quantity of the milk of human kindness with 
which their breasts were overflowing : — 

" ' I guess he deserved all he got.' 

" ' It would have been of small account if the niggar had 
been whipt to death.' 

" ' I always serve my niggars that way : there is nothing 
else so good for them.' 

" It appeared that this boy was the property of a regular 
slave-dealer, who was then absent at Natchez with a cargo. 

Mr. Lawes' humanity fell lamentably in my estimation, 
when he stated, ' that whipping niggars, if they were his 
own, was perfectly right, and they always deserved it ; but 



54 

what made him mad wasj that the boy was left under his care" 
by a friend, and he did not like to have a friend's property 
injured.' 

" There is in this instance of the treatment of a negro, 
nothing that in this State is at all singular ; and much as I 
condemned New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, when in those 
sections, I must now give them the character of enlightened 
humanity compared with this State, in which such conduct 
as that I have described, is tolerated and approved."* 

" If the political effects of slavery are pernicious to the 
citizen, its moral effects are still more fatal to the man. 
' There must doubtless,' says Mr. Jefferson, ' be an unhappy 
influence on the manners of the people produced by the ex- 
istence of slavery among us. The whole commerce between 
master and slave is a perpetual exercise of the most boister- 
ous passions ; the most unremitting despotism on the one 
part, and degrading submission on the other. Our children 
see this, and learn to imitate it, for man is an imitative ani- 
mal. The parent storms, the child looks on, catches the li- 
neaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in the circle of 
smaller slaves, gives loose to the worst of passions; and 
thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised in tyranny, can- 
not but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities. The man 
must be a prodigy who can retain his morals and manners 
undepraved by such circumstances.' — Notes, p. 241. 

" We know the time of prodigies is past, and that natural 
effects will follow their causes. The manners of the lower 
classes in the southern states are brutal and depraved ; those 
of the upper, corrupted by power, are frequently arrogant and 
assuming : unused to restraint or contradiction of any kind, 
they are necessarily quarrelsome ; and in their quarrels the 
native ferocity of their hearts breaks out. Duelling is not 
only in general vogue and fashion, but is practised with cir- 
cumstances of peculiar vindictiveness. It is usual when two 

* Fearon, p. 239—241. 



55 

persons have agreed io fight, for each to go out regularly and 
practise at a mark, in the presence of their friends, during 
the interval which precedes their meeting; one of the parties, 
therefore, commonly falls."* 

But the Negro, subject as he is to every species of abuse 
and indignity, and debased as he must have been by a long 
period of degrading servitude, still occasionally exhibits, even 
here, a moral elevation of character, in striking contrast to 
the degradation of soul so universal among his oppressors. 

Lieutenant Hall has given us an account of the trial and 
execution of a negro, which took place during his stay in 
Charleston, South Carolina. 

" A man died on board a merchant ship, apparently in 
consequence of poison mixed with the dinner served up to 
the ship's company. The cabin-boy and cook were suspected, 
because they were, from their occupations, the only persons 
on board who did not partake of the mess, the effects of 
which began to appear as soon as it was tasted. As the of- 
fence was committed on the high seas, the cook, though a 
negro, became entitled to the benefit of a jury, and, with the 
cabin-boy was put on his trial. The boy, a fine-looking lad, 
and wholly unabashed by his situation, was readily acquitted. 
The Negro's turn was next. He was a man of low stature, 
ill shapen, and with a countenance singularly disgusting. 
The proofs against him were, first, that he was cook ; so who 
else could have poisoned the mess ? It was indeed over- 
looked, that two of the crew had absconded since the ship 
came into port. Secondly, he had been heard to utter ex- 
pressions of ill humour before he went on board : that part of 
the evidence indeed was suppressed which went to explain 
these expressions. The real proof, however, was written in 
his skia and in the uncouth lines of his countenance He 
was found guilty. 
" Mr. Crafts, junior, a gentleman of the Charleston bar, 

* See Hall's Travels in America. 
e2 



56 

who, from motives of humanity, had undertaken his defence, 
did not think a man ought to die for his colour, albeit it was 
the custom of the country ; and moved in consequence for a 
new trial, on the ground of partial and insufficient evidence ; 
but the Judge, who had urged his condemnation with a vin- 
dictive earnestness, intrenched himself in forms, and found 
the law gave him no power in favour of mercy. He thenTOr- 
warded a representation of the case to the President, through 
one of the senators of the State ; but the senator ridiculed 
the idea of interesting himself for the life of a negro, who was 
therefore left to his cell and the hangman. In this situation 
he did not, however, forsake himself; and it was now, when 
prejudice and persecution had spent their last arrow upon 
him, that he seemed to put on his proper nature, to vindicate 
not only his innocence, but the moral equality of his race, and 
those mental energies which the white man's pride would 
deny to the shape of his head and the woolliness of his hair. 
Maintaining the most undeviating tranquillity, he conversed 
with ease and cheerfulness whenever his benevolent counsel, 
who continued his kind attentions to the last, visited his cell. 
I was present on one of these occasions, and observed his 
tone and manner, neither sullen nor desperate, but quiet and 
resigned, suggesting whatever occurred to him on the cir- 
cumstances of his own case, with as much calmness as if he 
had been uninterested in the event; yet as if he deemed it a 
duty to omit none of the means placed within his reach for 
vindicating his innocence. He had constantly attended the 
exhortations of a Methodist preacher, who, for conscience 
sake, visited ' those who were in prison ;' and, having thus 
strengthened his spirit with religion, on the morning of his 
execution, breakfasted, as usual, heartily; butbeforehe was 
led out, he requested permission to address a few words of 
advice to the companions of his captivity. ' I have observed 
much in them,' he added, ' which requires to be amended, 
and the advice of a man in my situation may be respected.' 
A circle was accordingly formed in his cell, in the midst of 



57 

which he seated himself, and addressed them at some length, 
with a sober and collected earnestness of manner, on the pro- 
fligacy which he had noted in their behaviour, while they had 
been fellow prisoners ; recommending to them the rules of 
conduct prescribed by that religion in which he now found 
his support and consolation. 

" Certainly, if we regard the quality and condition of the 
actors only, there is an infinite distance betwixt this scene 
and the parting of Socrates with his disciples : should we, 
however, put away from our thoughts such differences as are 
merely accidental, and seize that point of coincidence which 
is most interesting and important, namely, the triumph of 
mental energy over the most clinging weaknesses of our na- 
ture, the negro will not appear wholly unworthy of a compa- 
rison with the sage of Athens. The latter occupied an exalted 
station in the public eye ; though persecuted even unto death 
and ignominy by a band of triumphant despots, he was sur- 
rounded in his last moments by his faithful friends and dis- 
ciples, to whose talents and affection he might safely trust the 
vindication of his fame, and the unsullied whiteness of his 
memory; he knew that his hour of glory must come, and 
that it would not pass away. The negro had none of these- 
aids; he was a man friendless and despised ; the sympathies 
of society were locked up against him ; he was to atone for 
an odious crime by an ignominious death; the consciousness 
of his innocence was confined to his own bosom, there proba- 
bly to sleep for ever; to the rest of mankind he was a 
wretched criminal, an object, perhaps, of contempt and de- 
testation, even to the guilty companions of his prison-house ; 
he had no philosophy with which to reason down those natu- 
ral misgivings which may be supposed to precede the violent 
dissolution of life and body ; he could make no appeal to pos- 
terity to reverse an unjust judgment. To have borne all 
this patiently would have been much ; he bore it heroically. 

" Having ended his discourse, he was conducted to the 
scaffold, where, having calmly surveyed the crowds collected 



58 

to witness his fate, he requested leave to address them. 
Having obtained permission, he stept firmly to the edge of 
the scaffold, and having commanded silence by his gestures, 
■ You are come,' said he, ' to be spectators of my sufferings ; 
you are mistaken, there is not a person in this crowd but 
suffers more than I do. I am cheerful and contented, for I 
am innocent.' He then observed, that he truly forgave all 
those who had taken any part in his condemnation, and be- 
lieved that they had acted conscientiously from the evidence 
before them ; and disclaimed all idea of imputing guilt to any 
one. He then turned to his counsel, who, with feelings 
which honoured humanity, had attended him to the scaffold : 
' To you, sir,' said he, ' I am indeed most grateful ; had you 
been my son, you could not have acted by me more kindly;' 
and observing his tears, he continued, ' This, sir, distresses 
me beyond any thing I have felt yet : I entreat you will feel 
no distress on my account, I am happy.' Then praying to 
heaven to reward his benevolence, he took leave of him, and 
signified his readiness to die, but requested he might be ex- 
cused from having his eyes and hands bandaged ; wishing, 
with an excusable pride, to give this final proof of his unsha^ 
ken firmness ; he, however, submitted on this point to the re- 
presentations of the sheriff, and died without the quivering 
of a muscle. 

" The spectators, who had been drawn together partly 
by idle curiosity and partly by a detestation of his supposed 
crime, retired with tears for his fate, and execrations on his 
murderers."* 

It is admitted, however, that the treatment of the Slaves 
in the United States is, in general, much better than in the 
West India islands. 

" The slave codes of several of the North American 
States, and particularly of Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana, 
are still more harsh and revolting than our own ; and the 

* Hall, p. 433—438.. 



59 

prejudices there entertained against the African colour, are, 
if possible, still more deep-rooted and inveterate than those 
of the British Colonists ; and yet, if we compare the practi- 
cal results of the treatment of the slaves in the two cases, 
we shall be astonished at the difference. 

" In 1790, the Slave Population of the United States 
amounted by the census to 676,696. In 1820 it had risen 
to 1,531,431, being an increase of nearly 130 per cent, in 
thirty years.* 

" In the year 1690, Jamaica contained 40,000 Slaves. 
Had these been allowed to increase since that time at the 
rate of the slaves in the United States since 1790, they would 
now have amounted to three or four millions; or even if they 
had increased at the rate at which the Maroons, a part of 
their own body, have, when undisturbed, been increasing, 
they would now amount to two or three millions. But 
besides this original stock of 40,000 slaves, there have been 
imported into and retained in Jamaica upwards of 800,000 
Africans. Had these 84,000 slaves merely maintained their 
numbers, the slave population of Jamaica would be from two 
to three times as numerous as it is. But had they gone on 
increasing at the rate of slaves in the United States ; or even 
at that of the Maroons in Jamaica itself, the population would 
now have been quite immense. 

" But if we comprehend in our estimate, not only Ja- 
maica, but the whole of our Slave Colonies, and review the 
progress of population in them all since their first formation, 
how appalling would be the amount of human life, in fact of 
human sacrifice, which they have cost us, and which they 
are still costing us ! And what have been the proximate 
causes of all this frightful accumulation of misery and death ? 
Without all question, they have been severity of treatment, 
excess of labour, and scantiness of food." \ 

* Of this increase a portion not exceeding 100,000 at the utmost, may be 
attributed to fresh importations from Africa. 

•f- See Appendix to Second Report of And Slavery Society. 



60 

If no individual instances of cruelty were in existence, a 
fact like this would be awfully decisive of the peculiarly op- 
pressive nature of British Colonial Slavery. 

At the same time, the British Colonies are cursed no less 
than we have seen the Slave States of the Union to be, with 
that most dreadful of all the evils of slavery — the profligate 
state of society which results from its depraving influence 
upon the moral character both of the slave and his master. 

" In Jamaica," Mr. Cooper says, " the state of morals 
and religion is as bad as can well be imagined, both among 
white s and blacks. With scarcely any exceptions, all of the 
former description residing in Plantations, live in a state of 
open and avowed concubinage with black and coloured 
women. The general profligacy in this respect is perfectly 
notorious and undisguised." He does not recollect to have 
seen a single white man there who showed any serious con- 
cern about religion, except some missionaries.* 

" It must be admitted," says Dr. Williamson, " that the 
means of religious instruction to negroes, in Jamaica, are yet 
extremely defective ; and, it is still more painful to add, that 
the white inhabitants are culpably inattentive to public reli- 
gious duties. It were well if that were all. Contempt for 
religion is openly avowed by a great proportion of those to 
be met with in that country, 

" The propriety of matrimony," he tells us, " is seldom 
impressed on the minds of the negroes, by the clergy or any 
other white persons. Indeed, the latter, themselves, show 
the example of a libidinous course of life, and follow that 
promiscuous intercourse which can scarcely be justified in 
savages."f 

• Negro Slavery, p. 41, 42. 

f Since last year, a Return from the Slave Colonies of the number of 
Marriages between Slaves which have taken place within five years, from the 
1st of January, 1821, to the 31st of December, 1825, has been laid before 
the House of Commons. Nothing can so strikingly exemplify the state of 
West Indian Society and West Indian Moral?, We subjoin the number of 



61 



Is it possible for any serious mind to read these extracts, 
and to reflect upon the many instances of ferocious barbarity 
exhibited by the masters of slaves and their agents, without 
acknowledging the Righteous Government and retributive 
justice of the Almighty ? The black and coloured race 
do not alone experience the pernicious consequences of 
the prevalence of slavery. The curse has reached beyond 
them, and the moral debasement which it has engendered in 
the minds of- the chief actors in this drama of guilt and 
blood — in the minds of the masters of slaves, furnishes a 
striking comment on that passage of Holy Writ, " They shall 
eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own 
devices."* 



Marriages in each Island during this period, 


with the amount of Slave Po- 


pulation in each. 








Population. 


No. of Marriages in 5 years. 




9.000 


7 




80,000 


1 




, 22,000 






, 75,000 




Dominica 


15,000 


129+ 




25,000 


14 







1 




330,000 


2493§ 




9,500 


5 


St. Christopher's 


20,000 


18 




24,000 


4 




14,000 


none 




23,000 


11 


Can any thing in the known 


world be compared to the profligacy of man- 


ners which a return like this discloses ? 




* See Negro Slavery, 







£ Wholly by the Catholic Cure, not one between Slaves having been ce- 
lebrated by any Protestant Clergyman. 

§ These Marriages have chiefly taken place in the parishes where Metho- 
dist Missionaries have obtained a footing. In eleven other parishes, contain- 
ing 173,000 Slaves, there are only 68 Marriages in five years, or about 13 in 
each year. 



62 



MEASURES OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT 
FOR AMELIORATING THE CONDITION OF 
THE SLAVES IN ITS COLONIES, &c. 

The Reader has now been presented with a faint outline 
of the evils of Slavery. The few facts which have been se - 
lected from a multitude of similar character, are not cases of 
unexampled or infrequent atrocity, they are the daily recur- 
ring enormities of the system ; they prove but too plainly 
that slavery is, under all circumstances, the same revolting 
institution, and awfully and impressively illustrate the dread- 
ful accumulation of guilt and misery which it involves. 

After the Slave Trade had been abolished by this country 
in the year 1807, it was generally believed that we had 
cleaned our hands from the stain of its iniquities, and it is 
only two or three years ago that the people of England were 
made acquainted with the injustice and oppression still exer- 
cised upon the African race within the limits of the British 
Empire and under the sanction of British laws. The facts 
then made public gave rise to a general sentiment of indig- 
nation, and petitions from all parts of the country were soon 
presented to Parliament, calling upon the Legislature to in- 
terpose its authority for the protection of the slaves. 

On the 15th of May, 1823, Mr. Buxton made a motion 
upon the subject in the House of Commons, when the follow- 
ing amended resolutions were proposed by the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs, and carried unanimously : — 

" That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive 
measures for meliorating the condition of the Slave Popula- 
tion in his Majesty's dominions. 

" That through a determined and persevering, but at the 
same time judicious and temperate enforcement of such mea- 
sures, the House looks forward to a progressive improvement 
in the character of the slave population ; such as may pre- 



63 

pare them for a participation in the civil rights and privileges 
which are enjoyed by other classes of his Majesty's subjects. 

" That the House is anxious for the accomplishment of 
that purpose at the earliest period which shall be compatible 
with the well-being of slaves themselves, with the safety of 
the Colonies, and with a fair and equitable consideration for 
the interests of private property." 

In pursuance of these resolutions, the Ministers pledged 
themselves to the speedy adoption of measures for mitigat- 
ing the evils of slavery in our Colonies, with a view to the ul- 
timate emancipation of the slaves. 

An Order in Council was in consequence framed, compris- 
ing a variety of regulations for ameliorating the condition of 
the slave population, which it was understood were to be en- 
forced in all the Crown Colonies. Instructions were also 
transmitted by Earl Bathurst to the Governors of the other 
Colonies, requiring each of them to urge the adoption of si- 
milar measures of improvement upon the Legislature of the 
Colony under his government, and detailing at some length 
the nature of the reforms which his Majesty's Ministers had 
in contemplation. 

Of the nature of these instructions some judgment may be 
formed from the following brief sketch of the Order in Coun- 
cil promulgated in Trinidad, in which they were for the most 
part embodied. 

Of this Order, Clauses 1, 6, 7, and 8 — relate to the ap- 
pointment of a Protector and Guardian of the Slaves, to whom 
a variety of important functions are assigned. 

Clauses 9 and 10. — As soon as effectual provision shall 
have been made for the religious instruction of the slaves, 
Sunday markets are to cease ; and in the mean time they are 
to be held only before ten in the morning of Sunday. As 
soon, however, as effectual provision shall have been made 
for religious instruction, then Thursday is to be made the 
market-day instead of Sunday. The master is forbid to 
compel the slave to labour for his benefit on the Sunday. 



64 

Clause 11 — prohibits the use of the whip, or other instru- 
ment of the like nature, for the purpose of coercing or com- 
pelling labour in the field. 

Clause 12 — directs, that when the whip is used as an in- 
strument of punishment by the master or manager, the num- 
ber of lashes shall not exceed twenty-five at any one time, 
and for one offence ; nor is any punishment to be inflicted 
till former lacerations are completely healed. Twenty-four 
hours must pass after an offence has been committed, before 
it can be punished ; and when punishment is inflicted it must 
be in the presence of a competent witness, besides the person 
by whose authority it is inflicted. 

Clause 1 3 — prohibits the flogging of female slaves under 
any circumstances. 

Clauses 14 — 21 — direct, that on all plantations a record 
of punishments should be kept, specifying the crime which 
has been committed, and the kind and extent of punishment 
inflicted : the record to be signed by the parties present, and 
copies of this record, certified upon oath, to be regularly 
transmitted through the Protector to the Governor, in order 
to be sent to the Secretary of State. Severe penalties are 
also imposed for the neglect or falsification of this record, 
and the mode pointed out of bringing the master who inflicts 
an illegal punishment tojustice. 

Clause 22 — provides for the intermarriage of slaves; and 
such marriage is made binding in law, whether celebrated by 
a Clergyman of the Church of England, by a Catholic Priest, 
or by a Dissenting Minister. 

Clause 23 — makes it unlawful, by any judicial process, 
to seize and sell, apart and separately from each other, the 
husband and wife, or reputed Avife, or child under sixteen 
years of age. 

Clauses 24 — 28 — -ordain, that the property of the slaves 
shall be secured to them by law ; and savings banks are 
provided, in which to deposit their peculium ; which they are 
allowed to transmit by will. 



65 

Clauses 29 — 34 — abolish all taxes and fees on manumis- 
sion, and give a power, which is adequately secured, to slaves, 
to purchase their freedom, or that of their children, at a fair 
appraisement, whenever they have the means of doing it. 

Clauses 35, 36 — ordain, that any slave, whom any cler- 
gyman, priest, or religious teacher, shall certify to under- 
stand the nature of an oath, shall be recorded as entitled to 
give evidence in courts of justice in all cases, except in civil 
suits where the master is concerned, or in trials affecting the 
life of a white man. It is also provided, however, that the 
power now possessed, by courts of criminal jurisdiction, of 
admitting slave evidence, shall not be diminished by this en- 
actment. 

Clauses 37 — 40 — contain regulations respecting the office 
of Protector, or Assistant Protector of the Slave ; and for 
preventing perjury in the execution of the Order in Council. 

Clause 41 — subjects any free person convicted of a mis- 
demeanor under this act, to a fine of not less than £50, or more 
than £500 ; or to imprisonment for not less than one, or 
more than six months ; or to both fine and imprisonment, at 
the discretion of the court convicting him. And if the convic- 
tion be for cruelty to a slave, the court may declare the pro- 
perty in such slave to be forfeited to the King. All fines are 
to be divided between the King and the prosecutor in equal 
moieties. 

Clause 42 — orders, that if any one shall be twice con- 
victed of inflicting on any slave any cruel or unlawful pun- 
ishment, he shall be declared by the court convicting him 
absolutely incapable of being the owner, or acting as the 
manager or overseer of a slave in the island ; and all slaves 
belonging to him shall be forfeited to the King. 

Now it is important to remark, that the various provisions 
of this order, with the exception of Clauses 35 and 36, relat- 
ing to the evidence of slaves, were framed at the suggestion 
of the West India body in England. The plan was their's ; 
it was adopted on their recommendation, and supported in 



66 

Parliament by their concurrence. Although it comprises 
many salutary regulations, it is essentially defective in several 
important respects. It still leaves to the master the power of 
inflicting arbitrary punishment with the whip, and still allows 
him, in the sale of his slaves, to tear asunder the tenderest ties 
of nature at pleasure * As we might expect from the source 
in which it originated, all its provisions are framed with the 
most scrupulous care to avoid any kind of interference with 
the absolute right of property claimed by the planter. 

Yet this Order, imposed by the authority of Government, 
and supported by the sanction of the West India body at 
home, has been resisted by the Planters of Trinidad, as an. . 
invasion of their most sacred rights, pregnant with inevitable 
ruin to all their interests. 

The Order in Council, they assert, " has made an entire 
revolution in the system under which slaves were heretofore 
managed and governed." " Changes," they say, " are al- 
ways to be deprecated, especially in a slave colony, where 
the whole of the labouring population are deprived of their 
natural rights ; and nothing but the force of habit, and a 
brutish indistinct idea of the superiority and fixed power of 
their masters, keep them in awe and subjection." One great 
source of discomfort to the slave is stated to be the change 
produced by the Order in Council in the old mode of punish- 
ment, " so well established, recognized, and understood by 
the slave ;" (alluding of course to the abolition of flogging as 
it respects the women, and of the driving whip as it respects 
both sexes). " By those," they remark, " who have most 
considered the subject in this colony, the use of the whip is 
believed to be identified with the existence of slavery."f 

But in reply to these, and many other remonstrances of 
the Colonists, in which they seem almost at a loss for lan- 
guage strong enough to express their alarm, the Governor, Sir 
R. Woodford, whose instructions were peremptory, refuses to 

* See Appendix A. of Second Anti-Slavery Report. 
•f See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



67 

suspend this Order, and affirms, what we have above stated, 
that " the points comprised in it were recommended to his 
Majesty's Government by the whole body of West India 
Planters and Merchants, in London, as fit concessions on the 
part of the Slave Proprietors." 

If such was the spirit in which the Planters of Trinidad 
resisted the orders of Government, it was scarcely to be ex- 
pected that the different Colonial Legislatures would shew a 
greater readiness in adopting the suggestions of the Minis- 
ters for the improvement of their Slave Code. In some of the 
islands they have absolutely refused to make any changes in 
accordance with these suggestions; in others, after profes- 
sions of acquiescence, they have done nothing. In several, 
indeed, acts have been passed for amending the existing 
laws, but, with very few exceptions, these amendments have 
been of the most unsatisfactory description ; and in many 
instances, this ameliorated slave code, as it is termed, has 
contained clauses so utterly at variance with every principle 
of justice, that they would have disgraced the statutes of the 
most barbarous age. 

A few of these enactments will afford sufficient proof, if 
proof were yet wanting, how little is to be expected from the 
Colonists when they undertake to reform their own laws. 

In Clause 40 of the New Consolidated Slave Code of the 
Bahamas, after all that has been said and written upon the 
subject, it has been re-enacted, " That a negro or mulatto, 
who shall have been committed to gaol as a runaway, after 
having been confined and worked there for twelve months, 
shall, without any proof of his being a slave, and against the 
fair presumption of his being a free man, have the additional 
cruel and irreparable wrong inflicted upon him of being sold 
into perpetual bondage.* 

Clause 69 contains the following enactment : — • 

" Slaves receiving sentence of death or transportation, 

* Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 10. 



68 

shall be appraised and valued. But if it shall appear that 
the owner of such slave had treated him or her with inhuma- 
nity, and that necessity or hard usage, might have driven 
such slave to the commission of the offence of which he or 
she shall have been convicted ;* then, no valuation shall be 
made, nor certificate granted ; and the owner shall not be 
entitled to receive any allowance whatever for such slave 
from the public. f" 

In repiy to the remonstrances of Earl Bathurston this and 
similar enactments, the Assembly observes, that " a strong 
sense of the great impolicy and absolute clanger of making 
any further innovations at present in the slave system of the 
colony, and a decided conviction of the correctness of the 
principles on which they are noiv acting, compel them to re- 
fuse to alter their legislation. "X 

In Barbadoes, two sessions have been consumed in de- 
bate and deliberation, and nothing has yet been done to- 
wards the reform of the Slave Code. The last session of 
their legislature Opened with large promises, accompa- 
nied however with a spirit of violence and irritation even on 
the part of the professed reformers, which afforded but slen- 
der hope of their fulfilment. The very mover of the pro- 
posed reforms seemed to feel that he could not expect a 
hearing, without the most unmeasured abuse of the Aboli- 
tionists and their motives. " The diabolical falsehoods and 
infamous aspersions of a few interested and designing hypo- 
crites" — we quote verbatim from his speech, as reported in 
the West Indian newspapers of the day — " moving in terrific 

* " Is it possible for any man to read, without amazement and horror, 
that though the convicted slave should have been proved to have been driven 
to his crime by necessity, or hard usage on the part of his master — a master 
possessing absolute and uncontrolled power — yet that the law does not or- 
der his sentence of condemnation to be reversed, but leaves him to be exe- 
cuted or transported, as the case may be ; while the only punishment inflict- 
ed on the real criminal is, that he does not receive the value of the murdered 
slave." — Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 12. 

f See Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 11, 12. 

i Ibid. p. 14. 



phalanx to the total annihilation of the white inhabitants of 
the West Indies" marked them out in his opinion as a " vin* 
dictive crew," indulging " the abominable desire to cast 
headlong into the gulph of destruction, or endless misery, 
so large a portion of their fellow creatures, equally with 
themselves the followers of Christ. No justification can they 
have in their hellish design but that which originated and is , 
fostered in their own dark and interested souls. Endeavour, 
however," he says to his co-legislators, " to tranquillize (as 
far as your natures will permit) those acute feelings which 
must agitate the breast of every enlightened and virtuous 
West Indian, against that detestable Institution which, 
keenly and immoveably bent upon your destruction, has, with 
consummate ingenuity, erected and set in motion against 
you a tremendous machinery, throwing out at each evolution 
misery and woe. Soar above prejudice, and leave far behind 
you slanderers and vilifiers ; steadily steering your country 
through the muddy waters of bitter calumny, and leaving her 
safely moored in the bright and tranquil shores of truth. 
Discharge your duty, forgetting every cause of irritation. 
Follow the mild dictates of your religion : shew to your ac- 
cursed enemies that they, with their empty theories, carry 
blood and cruelty, risking not one iota of their ill-gotten 
wealth, while you in your practice extend, at the risk of your 
very existence, the real benefits of heaven-beaming philan- 
thropy." — But all the violence of this vituperation was insuf- 
ficient to secure the slightest degree of popular favour in 
Barbadoes, to the man who had dared to innovate, however 
sparingly, on the sacred institutions of its slave code. The 
speech was followed by upwards of two months of delibera- 
tion in the Assembly on the bill which it introduced ; but 
during this time the mover of it appears to have been assail- 
ed, out of doors, by every species of clamour and invective. 
He speaks of " the irritable working of parochial feeling, 
which, in its effervescence, had disturbed him in the course 
of his duties," and exhorts the House " to guard, with scru- 

lr 



G9 

pulous caution, against the influence of the feelings that are 
afloat without doors, agitating the minds of those who do not, 
cannot, will not, understand the question they exclaim 
against." He then alludes to the threatening tone which had 
been employed to deter him from his duty, and to the mar- 
tyrdom to which he might possibly be called by the hostility 
of his constituents. 

And what produced all this rage and violence on the part 
of the people of Barbadoes ? A proposal merely to modify 
some of those cruel and sanguinary laws which had so long 
been the disgrace of its statute book. Under the influence, 
doubtless, of this popular feeling, the proposed amelioration 
law, on leaving the Assembly, and proceeding to the Council, 
was found to be still so disfigured by severity, and so defec- 
tive in its provisions of protection to the slave, that the Coun- 
cil rejected it, as calculated to produce a more unfa- 
vourable impression of Barbadian humanity than if no change 
whatever had been attempted.* 

In Barbadoes, however, a new slave law has, at length, 
been passed. Of this much-boasted act it has been justly 
remarked, that " it does not remove any of the obstructions 
to the manumission of slaves, nor does it enable slaves to 
purchase their freedom. It does not cause slaves to cease to 
be chattels, or prevent their being sold at the discretion 
of the owner, to the disrupture of the dearest family ties. 
It provides no means of instruction for them, and does 
not abolish Sunday markets and Sunday labour. It does not 
protect them in the possession or transmission of their pro- 
perty ; nor relieve them from the burden of legally proving 
their freedom when freed, nor legalize marriage among them; 
nor put an end to the driving system, or to the flogging of 
women ; or to arbitrary punishments to an almost unlimited 
extent, for any offence or for no offence. The very provisions 
framed with a view to mitigate the rigours of their former 

* See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



70 

state, avail but little to that purpose, -while they serve to mark 
more unequivocally the depth of their degradation."* 

In Berbice nothing whatever appears to have been done 
in the work of reform. Governor Beard having pressed the 
subject at different times on the attention of the Council with- 
out effect, observes, in addressing Earl Bathurst, " I have no 
hope of the Council redeeming their pledge in this respect, or 
acceding in any manner to the proposed measures of his Ma- 
jesty's Government." 

In Bermuda, Demerara, Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia, 
and St. Vincent, either nothing, or nothing in any degree sa- 
tisfactory, has been done in reforming the slave code.f 

In Tobago an Act containing some considerable improve- 
ments was passed — like the rest, however, it had many omis- 
sions and many objectionable clauses ; but after Lord 
Bathurst's remonstrances in regard to these, had been laid 
before the Colonial Legislature, the Governor, Sir F. P. Ro- 
binson, writes, that it is his decided opinion " that nothing 
more will be done towards the melioration of the condition of 
the slaves in this colony by the Legislature." — He transmits, 
at the same time, a message from the House of Assembly re- 
jecting the Order of Trinidad entirely,}: 

But it is by the Legislature of Jamaica, the largest of our 
islands, and alone containing nearly one-half of our whole 
slave population, that the most determined hostility has been 
evinced to every proposition emanating from this country for 
ameliorating the condition of the slaves. 

The only measure of reform which appears to have been 
introduced in consequence of the communication of Earl 
Bathurst's propositions to the Assembly, was " a bill to en- 
able slaves to give evidence in certain cases of crime commit- 
ted against slaves, and of criminal attempts to excite rebel- 

* Slave Colonies, p. 25. 
■f Ibid. Passim. 
% Ibid. p. 103, 104. 



71 

lion and insurrection, and of uttering seditious language. 
But even this bill, though most jealously guarded, and ex- 
tremely defective in its provisions, was thrown out by a ma- 
jority of thirty-four to one! 

The violence of opposition manifested by the Assembly, 
has been only exceeded by the still more unmeasured resist- 
ance of the Parish Vestries, and the absolute rage of the 
Journalists. 

Not contented with heaping the most abusive epithets 
upon the different Members of the British Ministry, as well 
as upon the Abolitionists, a body of Planters in Jamaica, 
wholly unconscious of their own insignificance, have put forth 
a declaration, that " if the Commons House — and the Lords' 
House — and the King at their head, were to join in making 
laws for the better treatment of the slaves, they should pay 
no other regard to their laivs than to treat them with con- 
tempt." !i 

As a general comment upon all the recent proceedings in 
the Colonies, as regards the proposals of the British Ministry, 
we extract the following from the Third Report of the Anti- 
Slavery Society, published Dec. 21, 1825. 

" The local Legislatures have refused, without a single 
exception, to comply even with the moderate requisitions of 
his Majesty's Ministers, as these are embodied in the Order 
in Council for Trinidad ; and the Colonists, generally, exult 
in the refusal, encouraging each other to persevere in the 
same contumacious course. Their tone of secure and trium- 
phant irony is remarkable. ' We beg you to observe,' says 
the editor of one of their newspapers — and we give the pas- 
sage only as an illustration of the prevailing spirit — ' We 
beg you to observe, that not one of the unconquered colonies' 
(meaning the colonies having legislatures of their own) ' have 
had the civility to comply with Earl Bathurst's wishes, not- 
withstanding he informed them, in the most earnest and feel- 
ing manner, of the serious extent of the disappointment 



72 



which his Majesty s Government would experience if they re- 
jected his application. We sympathize most sincerely with 
his Lordship on this unexpected event.' "* 

Such is the spirit in which the colonists have met the hu? 
mane intentions of Government, and such are the laws which 
they have framed even when professing to act in accordance 
with them. Instead of being sensible that such laws outrage 
every principle of justice and feeling of humanity, they ac- 
tually hold them forth as models of enlightened and benefi- 
cent legislation. But if the laws themselves be, as they are, 
a crime, what must be their administration in the hands of 
the men who framed them, and who do not blush to boast of 
them ? 

A reply to this question is furnished by a return recently 
made of the proceedings of the Fiscals of Demerara and 
Berbice, in their capacity of Guardians and Protectors of the 
Slaves. 

The return from Demerara comprises a period of three 
months only, from June to September, 1824. The follow- 
ing are a few extracts : — 

1. The Negroes of Plantation Big Diamond complain of 
ill treatment : three of the ringleaders are punished, " the 
complaint being unwarranted." 

2. The Negroes of Plantation Friendship make the same 
complaint : four are punished, and all are sent back severely 
reprimanded. 

3. Negroes of the Plantation la Bonna Mere make the 
same complaint: it is pronounced frivolous and unwarrant- 
able, and seven of them are punished. 



* Although the Government had thus already tried in vain the methods 
of recommendation and persuasion with the different Colonies, and although 
in this manner three years had been already consumed to no purpose, yet 
during the last year (1826) they have again condescended to send out propo- 
sitions to the Colonial Legislatures, for their adoption, rejection, or modifica- 
tion. The fate of these is not yet decided, but from all the intelligence that 
has hitherto reached us, they do not appear to have been received by the Co- 
lonists in a better spirit than before, i 



73 



4. The gangs of Plantation Belle Hope complain of ill 
unage, hard work, starvation, &c. : the complaint is pro- 
nounced frivolous and ill-founded, and three of the ring-lead- 
ers are punished. 

5. Izak, of Plantation Towlis, complains of ill treatment: 
he is punished. 

6. George makes a like complaint : he is to go to his 
Avork, and to be punished. 

7. A woman and boy complain of want of clothing and 
ill treatment : unfounded : the woman confined eight days, 
the boy flogged. 

General Murray, the late Governor of Demerara, well 
known by the share he had in the prosecution of Smith the 
Missionary, has two estates in Berbice, Resolution and Buses 
Lust. On the 23d of October, 1821, the manager of the for- 
mer estate, Hopkins, was reproved by the Fiscal for having 
given three successive floggings to a negro named Mark, who 
states 

" He has been flogged severely by the manager, on ac- 
count of complaining he was sick, three different times ; 
once 12, another time 39, and again 25 lashes have been in- 
flicted ; shews marks of severe flogging, and much neglect- 
ed." 

On the 29th of November there is another complaint from 
the same estate. 

Michael says he is a negro, and knows very well he must 
work; but that they work from morning till late in the even- 
ing picking coffee, " and when he comes home, between six 
and seven in the evening, instead of going home to get some 
victuals, he is ordered to work till twelve at night, bringing 
mud from one place to another. Also on Sundays they are 
ordered to work, and if they should refuse they would be 
flogged." 

Philip makes a similar complaint. 

Thomas says " he is an old man, and the work that the 
manager gives him to do it is impossible for him to complete, 



74 



from the weakness of his body and state; for which he is al- 
ways punished, and kept continually in the stocks." 

The result of the complaints made to the Fiscal is seldom 
given. In this instance it is given in very laconic terms, and 
will doubtless surprise our readers — " Two directed to receive 
seventy-five lashes.'" 

On the 3d of March, 1823, nine Negroes, all women, be- 
longing to Plantation Port Moraunt, appeared to complain of 
the manager, that they are " constantly in the field from 
morning before gun-fire until late in the evening ; that the 
work the manager gives is too much ; that they are unable to 
complete it, although they work during breakfast time." 

" Sometimes they are obliged to work on Sunday to fi- 
nish the task given during the week; and often have no time 
to eat from morning till night ; if the row is not finished they 
are put in the stocks, and kept in until morning, when they 
are released and sent to work; sometimes the whole of the 
women are flogged for the sake of two or three not finishing 
their task. Last Friday the driver was flogged on account of 
his having allowed the women to come to the house to get 
breakfast, and they were sent all back to their work ; the 
manager saying to them that they had time to eat at night, 
and not in the day. On Saturday last the manager went to 
the field, and found that they had not finished their row, and 
immediately ordered four women to be flogged." 

" On investigation of this complaint," observes the Fis- 
cal, who, be it remembered, is himself a planter, " it ap- 
peared, 

" That although the tasks given to the negroes of the es- 
tate were not actually more than they could do in a day, yet 
that the manager was very severe upon them, and too fre- 
quently inflicted punishment without sufficient cause; he. 
was therefore informed that his conduct would be vigilantly 
looked after in future ; and if he continued the same system, 
the attorney of the estate would be recommended to discharge 
him from the management." 



75 



Such was the result of these acknowledged atrocities. 

The following complaint from the same estate was heard, 
on the 27th of March, 1823, and the result will further illus- 
trate the course of judicial proceedings in the Slave Colonies. 

" Ness states that he is the driver over the women, and 
the manager asked him last Sunday why he did not go to 
work, and he answered that he had not been ordered to do 
so, or he would have gone to work, as he did not wish to do 
any thing without the manager's order. The manager then 
offered to flog him : but he made his escape, and came to 
your Honour for redress. 

'•' The complainant in this instance was punished by the 
acting Fiscal for having left the estate and come to town to 
complain without any cause, and when he knew he had been 
guilty of disobedience of orders and neglect of duty; and 
the manager was warned of the impropriety and illegality of 
working the negroes on Sunday."* 

The manager is not punished for so flagrant a breach of 
the law, but warned of its impropriety ! The poor negro is 
punished ! 

No better comment can be made on such atrocious pro- 
ceedings than that of the murdered Missionary Smith. " If 
it be asked," said he, in speaking of the cruel treatment of 
the slaves in Demerara — " If it be asked, Are there not au- 
thorities to whom the injured slaves can appeal for redress ? 
The answer is in the affirmative. But many of the legally 
constituted authorities are themselves owners of plantations, 
following the same system, and perhaps, by means of their 



• Since last year, the Fiscal of Berbice, at the express desire of the Coun- 
cil of that Colony, has transmitted to this country an official vindication of 
the Report in which the above facts are related. It is drawn up with the 
avowed object of rebutting the charges against West Indian humanity and 
jnstice which had been founded on the original Report ; but so far from suc- 
ceeding in this object, it tends to confirm, and even to aggravate those 
charges. By far the most atrocious and horrific of the statements contained 
in the- report are incontestibly proved and even admitted to have been true.— 
For-a Review of this vindication, see Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 16. 



76 

managers, practising the same abuses on their slaves. Judg- 
ing from their conduct, it would seem that some of them 
consider it a greater crime for the negroes to complain of 
their wrongs, than for the master to inflict them. The com- 
plainants are almost sure to be flogged, and frequently before 
the complaint is investigated, if listening to the exculpatory 
tale of the master can be called investigation ; and even 
when the cause is so evidently on the side of the complain- 
ant that it can neither be denied nor evaded, the decision is 
so studiously concealed from them, that they scarcely know 
whether the law is to protect the oppressed or to indemnify 
the oppressor ; nor can they always solve this problem from 
the result." 

But it is time to leave this part of our subject. Enough, 
and more than enough has been stated to prove, in the lan- 
guage of one of our most distinguished statesmen, " that the 
masters of slaves are not to be trusted in what concerns le- 
gislation for slavery. That, however specious their laws 
may appear, they must be ineffectual in their operation," be- 
cause " there is something in the nature of absolute autho- 
rity, in the relation between master and slave, which makes 
despotism in all cases, and under all circumstances, an in- 
competent and unsure executor even of its own provisions in 
favour of the objects of its power." 



77 



CONSIDERATIONS ON THE BENEFIT WHICH 
WOULD ARISE FROM CULTIVATING TRO- 
PICAL PRODUCTIONS BY FREE LABOUR. 

IN taking a review of the foregoing details, what a dark 
and discouraging prospect is presented to us. The perse- 
vering efforts of the great and good men who first befriended 
the African race have, it is true, after a long protracted strug- 
gle, obtained from the Legislature of Great Britain the entire 
Abolition of the Slave Trade ; that Trade has been declared 
Piracy by Great Britain and by the United States of America; 
most of the European Powers have consented to relinquish 
it ; and England has long kept an armed naval force upon 
the coast of Africa to enforce its abandonment by the sub- 
jects of other nations as well as by her own. But all has 
been in vain. The scourge of this abominable traffic still de- 
solates the shores of Africa as widely as ever, while the crimes 
and horrors which attend it have been aggravated rather than 
diminished. 

But the legalized state of Slavery in our own dominions^ 
as depicted in the preceding pages, is a system of injustice 
and oppression no less atrocious than the Slave Trade itself. 

We have become convinced of this : we have found it 
impossible to contemplate its revolting features without the 
liveliest emotions of shame and indignation ; and we have 
endeavoured — the Government and the People of this Coun- 
try have strenuously endeavoured to mitigate its evils. 

But here, also, our efforts have been exerted in vain. 

The humane recommendations of the British Ministry 
have been met by an obstinate and contemptuous opposition 
on the part of the Colonists, whose conduct has declared, in 
terms the most distinct and explicit, that, as far as in them 



78 

lies, they will preserve arid perpetuate the worst abuses of 
slavery. 

Under the influence of such considerations, we seem al- 
most compelled to abandon in despair the cause of the Negro 
and the interests of humanity. We are almost ready to be- 
lieve that he has been destined by some unalterable decree to 
remain for ever the victim of oppression. But to admit such 
an opinion would be an imputation upon the justice of the 
Deity, in the moral government of the universe, wholly at 
variance with his known attributes, and we are, therefore, 
induced to hope, that he has provided, by some method as 
yet but little regarded, for the entire extinction of slavery. 

In the ordinary course of human affairs, the interest and 
the duty of mankind appear to be in general inseparably con- 
nected — in contradicting the will of our Creator, we seldom 
fail to disappoint our own. As, therefore, no system at va- 
riance with the laws of God, and injurious to his rational 
creation, can ever be ultimately beneficial to those who carry 
it on, we should, on these considerations alone, be autho- 
rised in concluding that Slavery, accompanied as it is, in 
every stage of its existence, by rapine, injustice, and oppres- 
sion, must disappoint the selfish aims of those who think 
themselves interested in maintaining it. 

Man, as he proceeded from the hands of his Creator, and 
in the exercise of that freedom which is his birth-right, is of 
far greater value than when enslaved, and degraded to the 
condition of a brute. In the one case, " his exertions are 
animated by hope; in the other, depressed by despair: in 
the one they are sustained by the energies of nature, in the 
other extorted by the mechanical operation of the lash ;" and 
for these reasons the industry of freedom may be confidently 
presumed to be more productive than that of slavery, and by 
a natural consequence, more beneficial to those who em- 
ployed it and put it in motion. 

It is believed that the facts which we are about to bring 



79 



forward will establish, to the conviction of every candid and 
dispassionate enquirer, the truth of the axiom^- 

" That the labour of the Free Man is cheaper than that 
of the Slave." 

In tracing the important consequences which result from 
this general principle, we shall have frequent occasion to ad- 
mire the consummate wisdom which has provided by means 
so simple, a complete ultimate remedy for the grossest sys-^ 
tem of wrong which human villany ever invented. We shall 
turn with heartfelt delight from the crimes and miseries of 
man, from the feeble efforts of human benevolence, and the 
misdirected or abortive exertions of human power, to con- 
template the silent, but irresistible operation of those laws 
which have been appointed in the counsels of Providence to 
terminate the oppressions of the African race. 

" The expence of slave labour," says Adam Hodgson, in 
his valuable letter to J. B. Say, on the comparative value of 
Free and Slave Labour, " resolves itself into the annual sum 
which, in the average term of the productive years of a 
slave's life, will liquidate the cost of purchase or rearing, and 
support in old age, if he attain it, with interest, and the sum 
annually expended in his maintenance. 

" If we omit the case of purchased slaves, and suppose 
them to be bred on the estate (and as breeding is now admit- 
ted to be, under ordinary circumstances, the cheapest mode 
of supply, your argument will gain by the supposition), the 
expence of free labour will resolve itself into precisely the 
same elements, since the wages paid to free labourers of 
every kind, must be such as to enable them, one with another, 
to bring up a family and continue their race." 

Now it is observed by Adam Smith, " the wear and tear 
of a free servant is equally at the expence of his master, and 
it generally costs him much less than that of a slave. The 
fund destined for replacing and repairing, if I may say so, 
the wear and tear of a slave, is commonly managed by a 



80 

negligent master or careless overseer. That destined for 
performing the same office with regard to the free man, is 
managed by the free man himself. The disorders which ge- 
nerally prevail in the economy of the rich, naturally intro- 
duce themselves into the management of the former; the 
strict frugality and parsimonious attention of the poor, as na- 
turally establish themselves in that of the latter." The Rus- 
sian political economist, Storch, who had carefully examined 
the system of slavery in that extensive empire, makes the 
same remark, almost in the same words. Hume expresses a 
similar opinion in decided terms ; and I have now before me 
a statement from one of the slave districts in the United 
States, in which it is estimated that, taking the purchase 
money, or the expence of rearing a slave, with the cost of his 
maintenance, at their actual rates, and allowing fifteen years 
of health and strength, during which to liquidate the first 
cost, his labour will be at least twenty-five per cent, dearer 
than that of the free labourer in the neighbouring districts. 

From the preceding particulars it appears highly probable 
that the cost of rearing and maintaining a slave would ren- 
der his labour, under ordinary circumstances at least, as op- 
pressive as that of the free labourer, but in addition to this it 
would be far less productive. 

" The slave," says Storch, " working always for another, 
and never for himself, being limited to a bare subsistence, 
and seeing no prospect of improving his condition, loses all 
stimulus to exertion, he becomes a machine, often very obsti- 
nate, and very difficult to manage. A man who is not re- 
warded in proportion to the labour he performs, works as little 
as he can ; this is an acknowledged truth, which the experi- 
ence of every day confirms. Let a free labourer work by the 
day, he will be indolent ; pay him by the piece, he will often 
work to excess, and ruin his health. If this observation is 
just in the case of the free labourer, it must be still more so 
in that of the slave." 



81 



Hume remarks, " I shall add, from the experience of our 
planters, that slavery is as little advantageous to the master 
as to the man. The fear of punishment will never draw so 
much labour from a slave, as the dread of being turned 
off, and not getting another service, will give a free man." 

Burke observes, in his Treatise on European Settlements, 
" I am the more convinced of the necessity of these indul- 
gences, as slaves certainly cannot go through so much work 
as free men. The mind goes a great way in every thing, and 
when a man knows that his labour is for himself, and that the 
more he labours, the more he is to acquire ; this conscious- 
ness carries him through, and supports him beneath fatigues, 
under which he would otherwise have sunk." 

" That the proprietors of West India estates," observes 
Dr. Reattie, " would be in any respect materially injured by 
employing free servants (if these could be had) in their seve- 
ral manufactures, is highly improbable, and has, indeed, 
been absolutely denied by those who were well informed on 
this subject. A clergyman of Virginia assured me, that a 
white man does double the work of a slave ; which will not 
seem wonderful, if we consider that the former works for 
himself, and the latter for another ; that by the law, one is 
protected, the other oppressed ; and that in the articles of 
food and clothing, relaxation and rest, the free man has in- 
numerable advantages. It may, therefore, be presumed, 
that if all who serve in the colonies were free, the same work 
would be performed by half the number which is now per- 
formed by the whole." 

Koster, in his Travels in the Brazils, observes, " the slave 
trade is impolitic, on the broad principle that a man in a state 
of bondage will not be so serviceable to the community as 
one who acts for himself, and whose whole exertions are di- 
rected to the advancement of his own fortune ; the creation 
of which by regular means adds to the general prosperity of 
the society to which he belongs. This undoubted and indi*- 



82 



putable fact must be still more strongly impressed on the 
mind of every one who has been in the habit of seeing the 
manner in which slaves perform their daily labour. Their in- 
difference, and the extreme slowness of every movement, 
plainly point out the trifling interest which they have in the 
advancement of the work. I have watched two parties la- 
bouring in the same field, one of free persons, the other of 
slaves, which occasionally, though very seldom, occurs. The 
former are singing, joking, and laughing, and are always 
actively turning hand and foot; whilst the latter are silent, 
and if they are viewed from a little distance, their movements 
are scarcely to be perceived."* 

Dr. Dickson, who resided in Barbadoes as Secretary to 
the late Honourable Edward Hay, the Governor of that 
island, observes, " that it has been known for many ages, by 
men of reflection, that the labour of slaves, whether bought 
or bred, though apparently cheaper, is really far dearer in 
general than that of free men." 

From a calculation made under the guidance of M. Cou- 
lomb, an able mathematician and experienced engineer, who 
conducted extensive building works both in France and the 
West Indies, he infers, " that field slaves do only between 
a third and a half of the work despatched by reluctant French 
soldiers, and probably not more than a third of what those 
very slaves would do if urged by their own interest. 

" I must additionally refer," remarks the same intelligent 
writer, " to an excellent pamphlet entitled Observations on 
Slavery, published in 1788, and now out of print, by my late 
worthy friend, Dr. James Anderson, who shews, that the labour 
of a West India slave costs about thrice as much as it would cost 
if executed by a free man. Taking another case, he demon- 
strates that if the labour of certain colliers in Scotland, who, 
till our own times, were subjected to a mild kind of vassal- 
age, regulated by law, was twice as dear as that of the free 

• Hodgson's Letter to Say, p. 8. 



83 

men who wrought in other coal mines in the same country, 
and thrice as dear as common day-labour."* 

If slave labour were cheaper than free labour, we might 
confidently presume that estates would be rendered less 
productive by the emancipation of the slaves which cultivated 
them ; but the presumption is contradicted by experience. 

" A few Polish Nobles," observes Coxe, in his Travels in 
Poland, '• of benevolent hearts and enlightened understand- 
ings, have acted upon different principles, and have ventured 
upon the expedient of giving liberty to their vassals. The 
event has shewn this to be no less judicious than humane, no 
less friendly to their own interests than to the happiness of 
the peasants; for it appears that in the districts in which the 
new arrangement has been introduced, the population of their 
villages has been considerably increased, and the revenues of 
their estates augmented in a triple proportion. 

'" The first noble who granted freedom to his peasants 
was Zamoiski, formerly Great Chancellor, who, in 1761, en- 
franchised six villages in the palatinate of Masovia. These 
villages were, in 1777, visited by the author of the patriotic 
letters, from whom I received the following information : — 

" On inspecting the parish registers of births from 1750 
to 1760, that is, during the ten years of slavery immediately 
preceding their enfranchisement, he found the births 434 ; 
in the first ten years of their freedom, from 1760 to 1770, 
628 ; and from 1770 to the beginning of 1777, 535. By 
these extracts it appeared that during the 
First period, there were only 43 births -^ 

Second ditto, 62 ditto J- each year. 

Third ditto, 77 ditto * 

" The revenues of the six villages, since their enfran- 
chisement, have been augmented in a much greater propor- 
tion than their population. In the state of vassalage, Zamo- 
iski was obliged, according to the custom of Poland, to build 

* See Hodgson's Letter, p. 0, 10. 



85 



cottages and barns for his peasants, and to furnish them with 
food, horses, and ploughs, and every implement of agricul- 
ture. Since their enfranchisement, they are become so easy 
in their circumstances, as to provide themselves with all these 
necessaries at their own expence, and they likewise cheerfully 
pay an annual rent in lieu of the manual labour formerly 
exacted by their master. By these means, the receipts of 
this particular estate have been nearly tripled. 

" The example of Zamoiski has been followed by Chrep- 
towitz, Vice-Chancellor of Lithuania, and the Abbe Bryzolow- 
ski, with similar success. Prince Stanislaus, the King of 
Poland, has warmly patronised the plan of giving liberty to 
the peasants. He has enfranchised four villages not far from 
Warsaw, in which he has not only emancipated the peasants 
from their slavery, but even condescends to direct their af- 
fairs. He explained to me, in the most satisfactory manner, 
that the grant of freedom was no less advantageous to the 
lord than to the peasant, provided the former is willing to su^ 
perintend their conduct for a few years, and to put them in 
the way of acting for themselves. He intends giving the 
public a particular account of his arrangements, and will 
shew how much he has increased the value of his estate, as 
well as the happiness of his peasants." 

In Hungary a similar experiment has been made of eman- 
cipating the vassals, and with the same success. 

Count Festetits, an Hungarian nobleman, having pur- 
chased an estate in the Murakbs, a tract of country between 
the Muhr and the Drave, granted lands to the peasantry at 
a fixed annual rent, instead of the common tenure of service. 
In these free villages the value of land has risen to such a 
degree, that the owner of four acres is esteemed wealthy, 
and the population has increased from fifty families to six 
hundred. Although still subject to the government duties, 
and suffering from the effects of two bad seasons and an inun- 
dation of the Drave, these peasants were, in 1814, striving 
cheerfully with the difficulties of their situation, while their 



86 

neighbours, on the common footing, although each fa- 
mily possessed thirty acres, were reduced to subsist on 
the bounty of their lord. Those free villages, also, afford 
an exception to the general dishonesty of the Hungarian 
peasantry ; their household furniture is often exposed 
on the outside of the cottages, and does not even require 
the protection of the large dogs common in the rest of the 
country.* 

It is stated in the Supplement to the Report of the Privy 
Council, in reply to the 17th of the Queries from his Excel- 
lency Governor Parry, answered by the Hon. Joshua Steel, a 
planter of 1068 acres in the parishes of St. John, St. Philip; 
and St. George, in the island of Barbadoes — " On a planta- 
tion of 288 slaves, in June, 1780, viz. 90 men, 82 women, 56 
boys, and 60 girls, there were only 15 births, and no less 
than 57 deaths, in three years and three months. An altera- 
tion was made in the mode of governing the slaves, the whips 
were taken from all the white servants, all arbitrary punish- 
ments were abolished, and all offences were tried, and sen- 
tence passed by a negro court. In four years and three 
months, under this change of government, there were 44 
births, and only 41 deaths, of which 10 deaths were of super- 
annuated men and women, and past labour, some above 80 
years old. But, in the same interval, the annual nett clear- 
ance of the estate teas above three times more than it had 
been for ten years before." 

The preceding facts and authorities form but a very small 
portion of what can be adduced in support of our position — 
that the Labour of the Free Man is cheaper than that of the 
Slave. 

Should the reader desire a more copious illustration of 
this interesting subject, he will find it in the valuable pamph- 
let to which we have so often referred, and from which the 
above passages have been chiefly extracted. He can scarcely, 

• Sea Bright's Travel* in Hungarj. 



87 



however, avoid being struck with the surprising coincidence 
which exists between all the facts that we have cited, al- 
though occurring under very different circumstances, and in 
situations widely distant from each other ; or fail to acknow- 
ledge that they are of themselves sufficient to establish, in the 
clearest and most convincing manner, the important princi- 
ple for which we are contending. 

We are authorised, therefore, in assuming it as a general 
rule, that the employment of Slave Labour is destructive to 
the interests of the master. This rule admits of only one 
exception. In countries possessing a large quantity of rich 
unoccupied soil, the temporary views of the land-owner may 
be promoted by the system of slavery, notwithstanding its 
general disadvantages. 

^ Land can have no value without people, and its fertility 
may be so great as to counterbalance the disadvantages of 
slave labour. Where land is so easily obtained, a man will 
rather work for himself than become the hired labourer of 
another, and from this circumstance, the wages of free la- 
bour may be so high as to be more expensive than the labour 
of slaves. 

These considerations will explain the reason why the land- 
owners of Illinois attempted to obtain the introduction of 
slavery into that newly inhabited state. 

But this state of things cannot continue long. As popu- 
lation increases, all the richer lands become occupied ; the 
difficulty of obtaining hired labourers is at an end; and the 
wages of free labour, in consequence, soon reach that point 
at which it becomes, as in other cases, the interest of the cul- 
tivator to employ it in preference to slave labour. 

If, however, blind to his own interest, he continue to per- 
sist in his impolitic system of slave cultivation, the natural 
fertility of the soil may be so great as to enable him to do so 
without absolute ruin to himself. But even this advantage 
will soon fai-1 him, for, by an admirable provision of the Au- 
thor of Nature, slave cultivation has an invariable tendenc/ 

g 2 



&8 

to lessen the fertility of the soil. In a manner which at first 
sight appears almost miraculous, the earth refuses to lend 
her support to a system of injustice, and while " she multi- 
plies her productions with profusion under the hands of a 
free-horn labourer, seems to shrink into barrenness under 
the sweat of the slave." The causes of this extraordinary 
fact will be made clear to us by a few very simple considera- 
tions. 

It is well known that a continual succession of the same 
crops will deteriorate the richest soils. To maintain their 
fertility it is necessary to have recourse to green crops and 
the pasturage of cattle ; and in the natural course of things 
under the influence of freedom, the demands of a civilized 
community make it the interest of the cultivator to devote a 
considerable portion of his land to these purposes. 

But under a system of slavery his interests are widely 
different. He has then no inducement to rear cattle. The 
labour usually assigned to them in a free country is perform- 
ed by his slaves, and he has therefore no need of their living 
services. They would be equally useless to him when dead, 
because beef and mutton are luxuries almost wholly denied 
to the slave, who is obliged to content himself with the 
cheapest and coarsest food which can support life. In other 
respects they would be of little or no value to him, because 
the wants of a slave population are not considered to require 
either leather or woollen cloth, or any of those comforts which 
the free man derives so largely from the animals whose flesh 
supplies him with food. 

For these reasons, in slave countries it is the constant 
practice to persevere in a ruinous succession of the same ex- 
hausting crops, and the productiveness of the soil is, in con- 
sequence, gradually diminished. In our West India islands 
this has taken place universally ; in the United States the 
same effects have arisen from the same cause. Even in 
countries where the population, although not actually en- 
slaved, has been long degraded by oppression to a condition 



89 

nearly allied to slavery, the same fact has been exhibited in 
a very extraordinary manner. 

A late traveller in Greece remarked with astonishment, 
that many districts of this beautiful region, once distinguished 
by their exuberant fertility, were now become barren and 
unproductive.* 

It appears, thei'efore, that by an almost necessary conse* 
quence, slavery produces a system of cultivation destructive 
to the fertility of the soil. When from the influence of these 
causes the estate of the planter has been impoverished, eco* 
nomy and good management become indispensable. " But 
it is found," says Hodgson, " by the experience of both an- 
cient and modern times, that nothing has tended more to 
assimilate the condition of the slave to that of the free la- 
bourer, or actually to effect his emancipation, than the neces- 
sity imposed by circumstances of adopting the most econo- 
mical mode of cultivation." 

The first step in the progress of the ancient bondsmen of 
Europe " from a state of slavery to that of freedom," has 
been generally marked by the introduction of Task-work, or 
of a system which required a certain quota of labour, or the 
fruits of labour, from the slave, on condition of allowing him 
to enjoy the overplus of his industry. 

In the United States this system has been already adopted, 
with unquestionable advantage to the slave ; nothing, indeed, 
can conduce more immediately to the excitement of his vo- 
luntary efforts. " It seems the natural and easy transition 
from labour to industry ; it forms in the mind of the slave 
those habits which are necessary for the character of the free 
man : it thus prepares him for enjoying, by a gradual change, 
those rights and privileges which belong to freedom. "+ 

The same necessity of having recourse to the most eco- 
nomical mode of cultivation, will induce the planter to adopt 
many other considerable improvements. He has been hither- 

• On this subject see Support of Slavery Investigated. By J. Cropper. 
f See Hodgson's Letter to Say. Passim. 



90 

to accustomed to have recourse to the sinews of the slave 
for every thing ; but he will soon learn that his interest may 
be greatly promoted by employing the labour of cattle more, 
and that of man less, by making use of the plough, and 
availing himself of the various modes of diminishing human 
labour, adopted with such great advantage in every free 
community. 

He will next quickly discover " how much his interest is 
connected with the comfort of his slave ; how much more 
profitable it is to divide with him the fruits of his free and 
strenuous exertions, than to monopolize the scanty produce 
of his compulsory toil. The rights of property, and the se- 
cure enjoyment of the fruits of labour will soon be extended 
to him, and the progress of his improvement will become 
constant and visible." 

But slavery is a system so radically vicious and bad, that 
oppression and cruelty are necessary to its very existence, 
and every alleviating circumstance, every permanent inter- 
mixture of better principles, hastens that existence to a 
close. The moment you succeed in mitigating its harsher 
features, the moment you raise the slave to a more elevated 
condition in society, you provide, by an easy and natural 
course of things, for the ultimate and complete extinction of 
slavery, 

As slaves, when well treated, increase as rapidly as free 
men, the natural consequence of that improvement in their 
condition which has been shewn to arise out of the interests 
of the master, will be an increase in the numbers of the 
slave population ; and when a population becomes so nu- 
merous that it is difficult to find employment for them, sla- 
very must soon cease. 

A surplus population in a free country produces a rate of 
wages so low, that great industry and good management are 
necessary to earn a subsistence. Under such circumstances, 
man can never possess any saleable value, since it is obvious 
that his purchaser must be at the expence of supplying him 



91 

with the means of support ; that is, he must give him all 
which his free and strenuous exertions could have obtained, 
before he can derive any benefit from his industry. 

Ireland is at present in this situation, and let us mark the 
consequence. Instead of considering a poor Irishman of any 
value as property, we are willing to incur considerable ex- 
pence in transporting him to a distant land. 

In a state of slavery the course of things would be pre- 
cisely the same. As soon as the slaves had increased be- 
yond the usual means of employment, the desire of the plan- 
ter to render their services valuable would induce him to 
have them instructed in various arts and manufactures, in 
order to make for himself many things which he has hitherto 
been accustomed to procure at a greater expence elsewhere. 
" During this state of things, the industry, the knowledge, 
and the habits of the slaves would be constantly improving 
by extended and varied employments ; and necessity, or a 
desire to enjoy the fruits of their labour, would soon be found 
to operate just the same in warm as in cold climates; and 
would be gradually, but constantly, fitting them for freedom 
at the time when, from an increase of their numbers, or 
other circumstances, they would cease to have any saleable 
value; and when it would be a great hardship on their mas- 
ters to compel them any longer to hold them in slavery."* 
-,>It is in this manner that slavery has been silently brought 

• Support of Slavery Investigated, p. 23. 

The late returns from the West Indies strongly confirm this part of our 
argument. The Bahamas have an unproductive soil, and slaves are compa- 
ratively of little value ; but there the slave population is rapidly increasing. 
Demerara is productive, slaves sell very high, and yet they rapidly decrease. 

Barbadoes lies between the two extremes The following statement will 

6hew the relative price of the slave, with the annual increase or decrease, and 
the annual number of manumissions in every 10,000 of the population in each 
of these three islands. 

Price. Manumissions. Increase. Decrease. 
Bahamas £22 35 1?3 

Barbadoes £28 12 33 

Demerara £88 4| — 168 



92 

to a termination in those countries of Europe where it has 
now ceased to exist. It is -thus that it has been nearly ex- 
tinguished in the East Indies, where, if any claims to servitude 
remain, we are assured by unexceptionable authority, that 
they are not enforced, because, from the cheapness of free 
labour, they are not worth enforcing. 

But, granting the correctness of all we have hitherto 
been urging, it will now very naturally be asked — If free la- 
bour be cheaper than slave labour, why have not the obvious 
interests of the master, in all cases, induced him to have re- 
course to it? Why has not slavery itself already terminated, 
or, if it will thus terminate by the operation of natural causes 
alone, if it will die a natural death, why should we urge it to 
a sudden and perhaps premature dissolution ? 

In reply to these objections, it should be remembered, 
that man does not always act with an enlightened view to 
self-interest; "an old system is frequently not improved 
until not only a better is known, but also until necessity com- 
pels its adoption, and, least of all, are men to be expected 
to make changes which involve a voluntary resignation of 
power and dominion over their fellow-creatures. A bad sys-^ 
tem may exist as long as a very high price is obtained for the 
article produced. The high prices of Tropical productions 
on their first introduction into Europe, admitted of an expen- 
sive system. These prices were so high as to support slave 
cultivation in the absence of the planters from the manage- 
ment of their own concerns, an absence producing neglect, 
waste, and extravagance, which could not succeed in any 
other branch of the agriculture, commerce, or manufactures 
of this or any other country,"* 

In the United States it is probable the unfettered compe- 
tition of free labour would soon put an end to slavery, did 
not the large tracts of rich unoccupied land in the back set- 
tlements, occasion such a constant drain of the population 

* Support of Slavery Investigated, p. 4. 



93 

from the Old States as to counteract its effects, and even to 
produce an internal slave trade notoriously extensive. 

In the West India Colonies of Great Britain, the produc- 
tions of slave labour are maintained at a monopoly price by 
the bounties and protecting duties imposed and granted by 
this country for the benefit of the Planters ; who have thus 
been enabled to continue their impolitic and oppressive sys- 
tem beyond the period atwhich it must, in the natural course 
of things, have given way to one more enlightened. 

The West Indian monopoly is at present supported, first, 
by a bounty of upwards of six shillings per cwt.* on the ex- 
port of refined sugar, and which necessarily raises the price 
not only of all such sugar exported, but of all the sugar con- 
sumed at home, to the extent of the bounty ; and secondly, 
a protecting duty of ten shillings a cwt. more on East Indian 
than on West Indian sugar ; thus favouring sugar grown by 
slave labour, in preference to that grown by free labour, to 
the extent of about 50 per cent, on the cost of the article, 
and tending to exclude the latter from our consumption, and 
to force us to consume the former. On coffee also the West 
Indies have a protection of 28s. a cwt. Now, to say nothing 
at present of the degree in which prices are raised by the 
operation of the protecting duty, the cost of the West Indian 
monopoly, arising from the sugar bounty alone, may be es- 
timated at about £1,200,000 annually.f And it is this large 

* This bounty has been reduced during the last Session of Parliament to 
8s. per cwt. ; the amount of the protecting duty still remains the same. 

■f This position has been questioned. It has been affirmed that the 
bounty, the extent of which is not denied, affects only the sugar which is 
exported. But such a statement can alone proceed from an entire ignorance 
of the facts of the case. The price of the sugar consumed in this country, 
and of that which is refined for exportation, is precisely the same in the su- 
gar market. The bounty necessarily operates on the whole mass of sugar, 
as there cannot exist at the same moment, two prices of one article in the same 
market. The point, however, if there could exist a doubt upon it (though 
such a doubt cannot possibly exist in the mind of any commercial man), is 
fully conceded by the West Indians themselves. Mr. George Hibbert, the 



sum (in addition to whatever enhancement of price may be 
produced by the protecting duty) paid by the people of this 
country to the growers of sugar, over and above what that 
sugar would otherwise cost, which does in fact chiefly main- 
tain unimpaired and unreformed the wretched system of co- 
lonial bondage. The People of England are therefore the 
real upholders of Negro Slavery. Without their large con- 
tribution to its support, it could not fail to be rapidly miti- 
gated, and eventually extinguished. It is absolutely vain, 
therefore, to be hoping to abolish slavery, or to expeet that 
by the vehemence of our speeches, or the force of mere Par- 
liamentary resolutions, or of Royal recommendations, we 
shall be able to abate this evil, while we are extending to it 
such solid marks of our favour, and thus affording to it its 
great and principal means of support. 

It is calculated that there are in the West Indies about 
1800 sugar plantations ; among the proprietors of which the 
twelve hundred thousand pounds which the people of this 
country are forced to pay for their sugars, over and above 
what the same sugars would cost them if the trade were free, 
is of course divided, making on the average about £700 ster- 
ling annually to each proprietor ; and this independently of 
the advantage, whatever it be, which he derives from the pro- 
tecting duty. Now if it were proposed in Parliament to 
give to each of these 1800* West Indian proprietors pen- 
sions, varying in their amount from £500 to £5000 a year, 

Agent of the island of Jamaica, in a letter to his constituents, dated the 
11th of March, 1824, and published in the Royal Gazette of Jamaica of 
the 1st of May, 1824, distinctly states, that " the advantage which we now 
enjoy in the principle and produce of calculating the drawback upon the ex- 
port of refined sugar, taken altogether, is little, if at all short of a gratuitous 
"bounty of six shillings per hundred weight.' 1 '' — See Second Report of the Anti- 
Slavery Society. 

For a full explanation of the nature and effects of this bounty, see Relief 
of West Indian Distress. By James Cropper. 

• This number is said to be over-rated by mpre than 200 ; if so, the case 
here stated would be greatly strengthened. 



95 

according to the quantity of sugar which each might extract 
by means of the cart-whip, from the labour of his slaves ; and 
forming a total aggregate of one million two hundred thou- 
sand pounds, what reception would such a proposition meet 
with? Would it be tolerated for a single moment? And yet 
wherein does the actual state of things differ substantially 
from the case which has been supposed, except that, in this 
last, the transaction would stand forth to the public view in 
all its flagrancy, while, in the other, it is more concealed from 
observation ; and that, in the one case, the money would be 
paid by the people into the Exchequer, before it went into 
the pockets of the sugar planters ; and that, in the other, it 
is paid to them through the grocers in the price of their su- 
gars. The payment is not the less real on that account.* 

We repeat, then, that the People of England are the real 
upholders of Negro Slavery — " in opposition to the dictates 
of humanity, the precepts of religion, and the principles of 
political economy and impartial justice, we contribute more to 
perpetuate our own disgrace, than it would be deemed pru- 
dent to bestow in the purchase of the greatest ble3sing. All 
our plans of domestic improvement, joined to all the efforts 
which we make for the diffusion of religion and virtue in fo- 
reign nations — our Schools, our Bible Societies, and our 
Missions, justly considered as the peculiar glory of the age — 
cost us a mere scantling, compared to what is annually de- 
voted to that very pious and benevolent object, the perpetua- 
tion of Slavery in the West Indies; — we throw mites into the 
treasury of the sanctuary, and heap ingots on the altar of 
Moloch."f 

Great as this pecuniary sacrifice is, it is not all that we 
are called upon to make ; we are called upon to support a 
system, the effects of which have ever been to hinder the 
progress of improvement, and to spread barbarism in its 
stead ; a system every where marked by the destruction of 

* Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

•j- See Address of the Leicester Anti-Slavery Society. 



the very soil, and still more by its tendency to the destruction 
of every virtuous and moral feeling-, no less in the master 
than in the slave. We are called upon to bind down the 
energies of the country, and to exclude that competition 
which would certainly destroy this wretched system. The 
rapid extension of our commerce since its opening with 
South America and India, cramped and restricted as it still 
is, is abundantly sufficient to shew what that extension might 
have been under a conduct governed by more liberal and en- 
lightened views. We have seen, for instance, the cotton 
trade, not only giving full employment to the population of 
the districts in England where it is now carried on, but, since 
the removal of some absurd regulations, we have seen with 
delight some branches of this trade extending to Ireland, and 
presenting the best means of improving and raising her de- 
pressed population ! Had we but employed the means with- 
in our power, of diffusing employment, civilization, and com- 
fort, over the regions of Asia, Africa, and America, .we 
should long since have received in return, employment and 
comfort for the suffering and depressed, though generous- 
minded population of Ireland ! and even now, if we will but 
pursue this policy, we shall soon reap an abundant reward. 

But it might at least have been expected, that in sacri- 
ficing such immense national advantages, we should have 
had some manifest and palpable compensation in the enor^ 
nious wealth and unparalleled prosperity of those for whose 
benefit the sacrifice is made. Is then the present system of 
colonial cultivation advantageous to the planters ? If it be, 
of what do they complain ? Have they not the unrestrained 
use and full controul of their slaves ? Have they not the 
privilege of importing their produce at a less duty than other 
countries ? Have they not bounties also on its re-exporta- 
tion 1 Yet we hear every day that West Indian cultivation 
is no longer profitable, and that, without further sacrifices on 
the part of the mother country, the planters will be ruined. 
But can the planters suppose that this country is prepared to 



97 

make these further sacrifices? to submit to still heavier bur- 
thens for no other purpose than to support an unjust system, 
which is at the same time unprofitable, not only to the coun- 
try but to themselves ? Instead of looking any longer for 
such ruinous support, let them employ the means of improve- 
ment which are amply within their power. Let them exa- 
mine what it is that enables their competitors to undersell 
them, and they will soon perceive the immense advantages o 
free over slave labour.* 

But the real cause of their present distress may be rea- 
dily discovered in the gross system of mismanagement to 
which our bounties and protections have given rise. In a 
petition to Parliament from the island of Antigna, in a late 
Session, the produce and expences of an estate are stated, in 
which about two hundred and fifty pounds are charged for 
oversight and management; the value of all its produce 
being, in the general markets of Europe and unaided by 
English bounty, only about £1050 sterling. Let the English 
landholder say if he could afford to pay such a sum for 
the oversight and management of 150 to 200 acres of land, 
which would-yield as much gross produce; or, if he did pay 
it, whether he would not soon be under the necessity of 
mortgaging his estate. f 

The non-residence of the Planters is also a peculiar evil 
of the British Colonial system. 

That the residence of many of the land-owners of Ire- 
land would improve their own revenues, and, still more, the 
condition of the Irish people, is a point which yew would be 

* Impolicy of Slavery. 

+ The following is one instance of this gross mismanagement. Bricks 
are enumerated in the Antigua petition among the supplies imported from 
this country. In deriving his supply of this article from this source, the 
Proprietor of Slaics pays from . c >s. to 7s. 6d. per day to thef?ee labourer of 
England for making them ; notwithstanding the gross amount of the pro- 
duce raised by the labour of 140 slaves, even with the benefit of the bounty, 
is only £1,427, or less than 7d. per day for the labour of each slave ! ! — See 
Relief of West Indian Distress. 



98 

found to dispute; and, on the other hand, that if they were 
to cultivate their own lands, and to attempt to raise cattle 
and corn by the agency of attorneys and overseers, they 
could not reasonably expect any revenues at all ! And, in 
such a case, surely no one would be found to propose to give 
them a bounty to enable them to continue so improvident a 
system ; yet this is what we actually do in regard to the West 
India planters.* 

But the oppression and misery, and the consequent de- 
struction of human life, which this system occasions, is the 
most appalling of all its consequences. 

With prices of produce sometimes so low as not to pay 
for the importation of slaves, the slave population of the 
United States has augmented nearly one hundred and twen- 
ty-five per cent, in thirty years, and that from natural in- 
crease; if the importation from Africa, which was legal into 
some of the States for a short time in that period, did not 
exceed the amount of manumissions, which are estimated at 
about 100,000. Though this cannot be exactly ascertained, 
there can be no reasonable doubt that the natural increase 
must have been at least twenty-five per cent, in every ten 
years. But we need not now confine our comparison to the 
United States, for we have many cases in the West Indies to 
prove, that if the slaves were well treated, a similar increase 
would take place there, an increase which, in thirty years 
from this time, would make their numbers nearly 1,400,000, 
whilst in the same time, at the present rate of decrease, they 
would be reduced to little more than 550,000. 

Does not a system, now proceeding at such a rate as to 
destroy the lives, or prevent the existence of 800,000 human 
beings in thirty years, imperiously demand investigation, and 
more especially when it is known that this destruction or 
prevention of life, is the chief means of keeping slavery in 
the British West India islands in existence; for with such 

• See Impolicy of Slavery, and Support of Slavery Investigated. 



99 

increase, a great proportion of the population of many of 
the islands must have become free ? 

The pecuniary advantages of such an increase would be 
almost incalculable, and we have only to look at the United 
States to be convinced that these views are neither visionary 
nor speculative. The American cotton planters live on their 
estates, and have to depend on their own good management 
for success ; whilst most of the British sugar planters reside 
in England, and are supported in their mismanagement by 
bounties and protections : if these were withdrawn, they 
would soon discover that in the good treatment of their 
slaves they would have ample compensation, and that a dif- 
ference in their numbers of three per cent, per annum would 
be more than equal to a bounty of 6s. per cwt. on their 
sugar.* 

It appears that in the island of Jamaica alone, the popu- 
lation is less by 400,000 slaves than, under proper manage- 
ment, it ought to be. If the treatment in the other colonies 
has produced a similar effect (and we have no reason to sup- 
pose it has been of a better description), the whole loss will 
be 800,000 slaves. Speaking of them merely as property, 
and estimating their price at £50 per head, this treatment has 
of itself occasioned a loss in property to the amazing extent 
of 40 millions sterling, in the short space of thirty years 
only. 

It is to the continuance of this miserable system of neg- 

* It it curious to estimate the effects of the bounty which we are paying 
for the support of Slavery. It enables the Planters to support a system of 
ill-treatment which decreases the number of their slaves at the rate of f per 
cent, per annum, instead of their increasing at the rate of 2| per cent, (as in 
the United States and elsewhere). We shall find the loss or destruction of 
property, and that property human beings, to amount, by the above calcula- 
tion, to somewhere about 1,200,000 per annum, which is exactly the amount 
of the bounty we pay them. — Thus the bounty by which the price of sugar 
is raised, just reimburses the planters for the loss of their slaves by ill-treat- 
ment — take off the bounty, and the ill-treatment must cease. — See Relief of 
West Indian Distress, and Support of Slavery Investigated. Passim. 



100 

lect and cruelty, that the present distress of the colonists, of 
which we hear so much, can alone be attributed. 

But for this, the planters, instead of becoming every day 
more deeply involved, would have shared in the rapid in- 
crease of prosperity which has attended the nation in ge- 
neral. 

But let it not for one moment be forgotten, that the Peo- 
ple of England are the real supporters of Slavery : and that, 
by a large annual pecuniary sacrifice, they not only uphold 
it in all its unmitigated malignity, but prevent the operation 
of a principle which would soon terminate its existence. 

If it be an established truth " that free labour is cheaper 
than slave labour," the competition of the former must soon 
put an end to the slavery of our colonies, but for the facti- 
tious aid which we are affording it. 

Wherever this aid has not been granted, the efficacy of 
such a competition has been proved in the most remarkable 
manner. 

Forty years ago little or no Indigo was exported from 
British India. The whole of that article then used in Eu- 
rope was the product of slave labour. A few individuals in 
Bengal employed their capital and their intelligence in incit- 
ing the natives to enlarge their cultivation of it, and in pre- 
paring it for the European market; and, though abundantly 
discouraged in the first instance, yet, the duties being nearly 
equalized, their efforts were at length crowned with complete 
success. Such, indeed, has been the effect of British skill 
and capital united, when employed in calling free labour into 
action, that, notwithstanding the enormous freights (five 
times their present rate) which, for a time, the importers of 
it had to pay, the indigo of India has been gradually dis- 
placing from the market the indigo grown by slaves ; until, 
at length, with the help of the free trade, and the lighter 
freights consequent upon it, there is not now one ounce of 
indigo the produce of slave labour, imported into Europe; 
while the value of the indigo grown in British India amounts 



101 

to nearly four millions sterling annually.* The only existing 
competitors in this branch of trade are the free labourers of 
Guatimala and the Caraccas ; and their competition, which 
had for a time been nearly extinguished, is now only reviving 
with the new-born liberties of those regions. f 

With the knowledge of this extraordinary fact, it is impos- 
sible to doubt that, but for the bounty on West India sugar 
and the protecting duty of 10s. per cwt. against all sugar 
raised in the East, slave labour must have yielded to free la- 
bour in the cultivation of this article also, which is the great 
staple of slavery. 

Notwithstanding the oppressive weight of the latter im- 
post — notwithstanding the aggravation of all the charges of 
transport by the distance of the place of its growth — notwith- 
standing the great imperfection and expensiveness of the 
rude process by which it is at present manufactured — not- 
withstanding the absence of encouragement from the applica- 
tion of British capital and skill to its production — notwith- 
standing all these disadvantages, some descriptions of the 
6ugar of Hindostan come even now into direct competition 
with the sugars of the West Indies in the market of Great 
Britain. This single circumstance appears to be conclusive. 
It appears to prove clearly that the free-grown sugars of Bri- 
tish India might be sold, if the present protecting duty were 
removed, considerably cheaper than the slave-grown sugar of 
the British West Indies. 

These facts are of the highest importance, not only be- 
cause they confirm the general principle for which we are 
contending, but because they lead to the great object of our 

* When the above estimate was made the price of Indigo was very high. 
The average annual value of the article is about three millions sterling. It 
.is not known that there is any indigo whatever cultivated by slave labour, 
although, from the nature of things, it may be difficult to ascertain it with 
certaiirty. The quantity, however, if any, must be exceedingly small. 

■f Set 1 Address of the Society for Mitigating Slavery, 9th of February, 
1825. 



102 



enquiry, and point out a specific means by which we can ef- 
fect the entire abolition of the slave trade and of slavery. 

The Nineteenth Report of the African Institution, after 
detailing the ineffectual efforts of the British Government to 
restrain the ravages of the slave trade, concludes with the 
following observations : — 

" Our own slave trade is extinct. But a state of things, 
such as at the institution of this Society, never could have 
been anticipated, has arisen since the peace : a new disturb- 
ing force is introduced which we have not the power of con- 
trouling; and the enemies of humanity have rushed in be- 
tween us and our object, and threatened to bear it beyond 
our reach. 

" As in the abolition of the slave trade we originally 
sought the mitigation of slavery, so we are now driven to 
consider, whether any other efficient means are left us, than 
that of reversing our course of proceeding, and whether we 
must not look henceforward to the mitigation and extinction 
of slavery as our only security for the abolition of the slave 
trade. We cannot, it is true, compel other nations to aban- 
don it — it seems too probable that they are not to be per- 
suaded ; but by a determined encouragement of free labour, 
we may make it not worth pursuing." 

But we may do more than this. By a determined encou- 
ragement of free labour we may not only compel other Euro- 
pean nations to abandon the slave trade, by making it not worth 
their pursuit, but we may also compel our own colonial sub- 
jects, and the subjects of every other power in America, to 
abandon slavery itself. 

Any laws we may enact for the mitigation of slavery can 
only reach a very small part of the evil. All British law? 
must be confined to the British dominions, and out 
5,600,000 slaves in the Western world, the British dorr' 
contain only 720,000. Should we even emancipate- 
slaves, there would still remain nearly 5,000,000 
can race in a state of bondage. 



103 



But as the beneficial effects of the free cultivation of in- 
digo by British skill and capital in the East, were not con- 
fined to the British colonies, but prepared the way for the 
emancipation of the slaves in the Spanish dominions of Ame- 
rica, so a similar competition of free labour in the raising of 
sugar and cotton, and other tropical productions now cul- 
tivated by slaves, would extend its benignant influence to 
every human being now held in slavery. 

Legislative enactments may do a great deal to mitigate 
the evils of slavery in our own colonies ; they may even ter- 
minate its existence there, and it is therefore our imperative 
duty to employ them ; but if we ever hope to eradicate this 
deeply disgraceful institution from every country on the globe 
which it now desolates, it is to the unfettered competition 
of free-born industry alone that we ean look with any ration- 
al prospect of success. In the case of indigo, the only article 
of slave production in which that competition has been fairly 
tried, its efficacy, as above-stated, has been signal and com- 
plete. It is a remarkable fact, that the first few chests of in- 
digo, the produce of free labour in the East, arrived in Eng- 
land in 1787, just about the time when the first efforts were 
making for the abolition of the slave trade. We have wit- 
nessed the fate of those efforts — we have seen that, although 
incessantly exerted for thirty-eight years, they have not dimi- 
nished to any perceptible amount the number of our fellow- 
creatures torn from the shores of Africa, or held in bondage 
in America. But during the same period, the cultivation of 
indigo by free labour has advanced with such rapidity in the 
East, that it is now estimated to employ nearly 500,000 free 
persons, and the article has ceased to be cultivated by slaves. 
As far, therefore, as this article is concerned, the competi- 
tion of free labour, by a silent but sure operation, has effected 
the entire destruction of the slave trade and of slavery, and 
may be justly considered, at the present moment, to have 
saved 500,000 human beings, amounting to nearly two-thirds 

h2 



104 

of the whole slave population of our West India Colonies, 
from a cruel and degrading bondage. 

But it has been ascertained by undoubted evidence, that 
the other tropical productions now raised in America and 
the West Indies by slaves, but more especially sugar, the 
great staple of slavery, may, as well as indigo, be cultivated 
in the East Indies at a much cheaper rate by the labour of 
free men. In regard to sugar, a mass of valuable informa- 
tion has been obtained from the records of the East India 
Company (see a Pamphlet entitled East India Sugar, &c.)J 
and from this it now appears certain that if some simple and 
obvious improvements were adopted in the mode of its manu- 
facture, it might be imported into this country so low as ma- 
terially to undersell the sugar grown by slaves. It is only 
necessary, then, as in the case of indigo, to direct British 
skill and capital to the cultivation of sugar in this quarter, 
in order to put an end to its cultivation by slave labour, not 
only in the British colonies, but in every other part of the 
world. And when sugar shall cease to be cultivated by 
slaves, it may safely be assumed that the extinction of colo- 
nial slavery is at hand. 

But as some doubt may remain as to the precise effects 
that would arise from gradually superseding slave-grown 
sugar by the competition of free labour, we now propose to 
delineate more particularly the important benefits which 
would attend it. 

In tracing these it is highly gratifying to discover that, so 
far from relieving one class of men by a proportionate aggra- 
vation of the losses and sufferings of another, the measure 
we are contemplating will, by that beautiful connection of 
interest wiih duty, which has been before adverted to, exer- 
cise a beneficial influence upon all. We propose to shew 
that it will, 

In the first place — Effect the entire Abolition of the Slave 
Trade. 



105 

Secondly — That it will improve the Situation of the 
Slave, and gradually raise him to the Condition of a Free 
Man. 

Thirdly — That it will give an increased Value to the Pro- 
perty of the Master. 

And, Fourthly — That it will be productive of important 
Benefits, not only to this Country and to Ireland, but to the 
continent of Africa and the vast Population of our Indian 
Empire. 

1st. As soon as the indigo cultivated by free labour in 
the East had been brought to the markets of Europe in suffi- 
cient quantity, materially to supersede slave-grown indigo, 
it is obvious that the indigo planter of the West Indies, being 
no longer able to find profitable employment for the hands he 
already possessed, would need no further importation of 
slaves.* As far as regards that article, therefore, the slave 
trade must then have entirely ceased. 

This trade is now chiefly maintained, in the dreadful ex- 
tent to which \t is carried on at present, by the demand for 
slaves among the sugar planters of Cuba and the Brazils. 
But if sugar were cultivated in the East by free labour, with 
the same success as indigo, the demand for slave-grown 
sugar would be instantly lessened, the quantity produced 
would be quickly diminished, and the sugar planter also 
would soon find himself in possession of a greater number of 
hands than he could profitably employ without a change in 
his system. 

It is evident that from this moment he would cease to 
purchase more slaves, and from this moment, therefore, the 
slave trade, with all the crimes and desolations which attend 
it, would also cease for ever, f 

• In about three years after the period at which free-grown indigo was 
first brought into the markets of Europe, the Carolinas, where that article 
was extensively cultivated, shut their ports against all further importation of 
6laves from Africa. 

■f The manner in which the competition of Free Labour would extinguish 
the Slave Trade may be also illustrated by viewing the subject in another 



106 

But, 2dly. It will now very naturally be objected, that if 
\ the demand for sugar is lessened, and the slave thrown out 
of employment, the change will be injurious to him. In this 
country, for example, an increased demand for any article 
enables the labourer in that branch of manufacture to obtain 
higher wages, to live better, and to work or not, just as he 
pleases ; a diminished demand, on the contrary, deprives him 
of employment, and consequently of his usual means of sub- 
sistence. But in the case of the West Indian labourer these 



light. This trade is kept up in its present deplorable extent notwithstand- 
ing the measures adopted to repress it, because the high price of slaves in 
the West Indies and America affords such an enormous profit to the trader 
as to be far more than equivalent to the risk of seizure incurred by him. But 
the course of things which we have described above, would quickly lessen 
this price so much as to leave a profit no longer adequate to the expence and 
risk of of obtaining slaves on the coast of Africa, and transporting them to 
America. From all the information we at present possess, it appears that 
the average cost of a slave when put on board, is at least five pounds sterling. 
Wow if to this sum we add the necessary expences of the voyage, as well as 
the loss of life and risk of seizure, which, together, cannot well be estimated 
at less than ten pounds more, we have fifteen pounds for the cost of a negro 
when landed in America. But as no man would continue to pursue a com- 
merce of this description unless it were attended with considerable profit, we 
may safely presume that, as soon as the value of the slave in the sugar plan- 
tations had been reduced, by the superior advantages of a system of free-born 
industry, to twenty, or even to twenty-five pounds, the trade would be quickly 
abandoned. In some of our colonies, and more particularly in those where, 
from the inferior fertility of the soil, and the better treatment consequent 
upon it, the population has for a considerable time been increasing in num- 
bers, the value of the slave has been already reduced nearly to this point, 
and in some colonies even below it. It appears by the late Parliamentary 
Returns, that the present average price 

In Barhadoes is ... £28 

Bahamas ... £21 8 

Tortola ... £17 10 

St. Vincent's ... £1~6 15 
It is probable, therefore, that even if a fresh importation of slaves into 
these islands were to be permitted by law, not a single slave would be taken 
to either of them, and the competition of free labour would thus put an end 
to the slave trade, at a period much antecedent to Jhe final extinction of sla- 
Tery itself. 



107 



recognised principles of political economy are reversed ; and 
the cause of the difference is obvious ; the one is a free man, 
the other is a slave. The increased demand in the case of 
the free man produces an increase in the rate of his wages. 
In the case of the slave, it may produce indeed a destructive 
increase in the rate of the labour exacted from him ; but 
slaves receive no wages ; they, therefore, derive no benefit, 
but, on the contrary, an aggravation of their uncompensated 
toil, by the increased demand for the produce of their la- 
bour. 

The free labourer, in like manner, may suffer from low 
prices, either by the diminished rate of his wages, or by his 
being thrown out of work. But what does the slave suffer by 
being thrown out of work? What disadvantage can it be to 
him that the produce of labour is not in demand, unless we 
can suppose the master to hinder him, on that account, from 
cultivating his provision grounds as formerly, and to oblige 
him to sit dov/n and starve in inaction during the time which 
the law allots to him for the raising of food.* 

The West Indians, it is true, assert, that if the demand 
for their sugar should be lessened, and prices in consequence 
should fall, the slaves must starve. But in what way are low 
prices to operate in producing this effect ? The food of the 
field slaves in general is raised entirely by their own hands, 
on the portion of ground allotted to them for that purpose, 
and cultivated during that fragment of their time (about one 
thirteenth part of the whole) which is specifically assigned 
them by law. Is it then by depriving the slaves of the land 
which had been set apart for their subsistence, and which the 
owner himself has now less temptation than ever to occupy, 
that starvation is to ensue ? Or is it by depriving them, 
without any assignable object for so doing, of the scanty por- 
tion of time which the law allows them for cultivating their 
allotments ? If not, how is it possible for them to starve ? 

" See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



108 



Low prices of sugar cannot make the land less fit than it was 
before to produce the food of the negroes, or the slaves less 
capable of tilling it.* 

The effect of a diminished demand for his labour will be 
to lessen the drudgery of the slave, who will enjoy a relaxa- 
tion from his toil, which, if he could be profitably worked 
would never have fallen to his lot; while, from the fall in the 
value of his produce, the sugar planter will be brought into 
precisely the same situation as we have shewn to be produced 
by the deterioration of the soil (see page 89). He will now 
be compelled to exercise economy and judicious management, 
the first step to which is the better treatment of the slave ; 
and his efforts to render the services of the latter still valu- 
able to him, by supplying him with motives to exertion, by 
securing to him a reward for his hitherto uncompensated toil, 
by recognizing his rights, and by teaching him the many 
useful arts, and furnishing him with the varied employments 
of civilized society, will gradually prepare him for freedom, 
until the period when, by this improved treatment, the negro 
population shall have become so greatly augmented, that 
the claim to servitude will be no longer worth enforcing.f 

3dly. These changes, produced by the competition of 
free labour, will prove ultimately no less beneficial to the in- 
terests of the master than the condition of the slave. 

However paradoxical the position may at first appear, 
that a fall in the price of slave-grown produce, and a de- 
crease in the value of the slaves would give an additional 
value to the property of the master, it can be established by 
a number of incontrovertible facts. Slavery is a bad and im- 
politic system, which has constantly proved a source of ruin 
to the planter.^ 

• See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society, and Cropper's Pam- 
phlet on the Beneficial Effects of Low Prices, and the Injurious Effects of 
High Prices on the Condition of the Slave. 

■(• See Second Report, and Cropper's Pamphlet on High and Low Prices. 

$ For abundant evidence of this, see a Pamphlet entitled England En- 
slaved by her own Slave Colonies, by James Stephen, Esq. p. 32, 33, and 



109 

Slave cultivation is an. expensiva kind of machinery, 
which the competition of free labour compels him to abandon . 
for one that is cheaper and better. Can he therefore fail to 
receive benefit from the change ? 

The slaves, it is true, will now cease to be of any value to 
him as property : but they will be raised to the condition of 
a free tenantry, their value will be more than transferred to 
the land, and his estate under abetter system of management 
will quickly become more productive and yield a larger re- 
turn of profit. He, as well as the slave, will be elevated in 
the scale of society ; " from a slave-holder he will become a 
land-owner ; from a poor oppressor of his fellow-creature9, 
he will be raised to the condition of an independent lord of 
the soil." 

To establish the truth of these assertions it will be suffi- 
cient to refer to the instances already cited in the course of 
this enquiry (see p. 83 and seq.), of estates in Poland, 
" where the receipts have been nearly tripled" by a similar 
change — of the remarkable instance of improvement in Hun- 
gary, and of that of the Honourable Joshua Steele, in Bar- 
badoes, where, " in the course of four years and three months, 
the annual net clearance of the estate had become three times 
greater than it had been for ten years previously. 

To these a multitude of examples equally striking might 
be added ; but we will cite only one. 

" In a late communication from America," says A. Hodg- 
son, " from an intelligent observer, it is remarked — ' the 
state of Maryland, though a slave state, has comparatively 
but few slaves in the upper or western part of it; the land 
in this upper district is generally more broken by hills and 
stones, and is not so fertile as that on the southern and eas- 
tern parts. The latter has also the advantage of being situ- 

84, from which we extract the following : — " The late able and eminent Co- 
lonial Agent, Mr. Marry at, in a speech in Parliament observes, ' there are 

few estates in the West Indies that have not during the last twenty years (i. e. 

from 1793 to 1813^ been sold or given up to creditors.'' " 



no 



ated upon the navigable rivers that flow into the Chesapeake 
Bay, and its produce can be conveyed to market at one-third 
of the average expence of that from the upper parts of the 
state ; yet, with all these advantages of soil, situation, and 
climate, the land within the slave district will not, upon a ge- 
neral average, sell for half as much per acre as that in the 
upper districts, which is cultivated principally by free men. 
This fact may be also further and more strikingly illustrated 
by the comparative value of land within the states of Virgi- 
nia and Pennsylvania, the one lying on the south and the 
other on the north side of Maryland ; the one a slave, the 
other a free state. In Virginia, land of the same natural soil 
and local advantages will not sell for one-third as high a 
price as the same description of land will command in Penn- 
sylvania. ' This single, plain, incontrovertible fact speaks 
volumes upon the relative value of slave and free labour, 
and, it is presumed, renders any further illustration unneces- 
sary."* 

4thly. We have seen that the competition of free labour 
in the cultivation of sugar would necessarily introduce new 
systems into our West India Colonies, would gradually ame- 
liorate the condition of the slaves, and finally extinguish sla- 
very itself. Its good effects, however, would not end here, 
but it would extend a yet wider and more beneficial influence. 

• See Hodgson's Letter to Say, p. 12, 13. 

The late Statistical Returns from the West Indies furnish a remarkable 
confirmation to these views. It appears by these returns that the distress of 
the planter in general runs parallel with the fertility of the soil he cultivates, 
and with the consequent high appreciation of his slaves. If we take the four 
colonies of Demerara, Berbice, Trinidad, and Honduras, where the average 
value of slaves is the highest, and the soil most fertile, we shall find the pro- 
portion of slaves taken and sold in execution in five years, to be as high as 
one in twenty -eight of the slave population ; whereas in the other eight colo- 
nies from which we have returns of the sales in execution, St. Vincent's, 
Tortola, Bahamas, Nevis, St. Christopher's, Barbadoes, Dominica, and 
Grenada, and in which the prices are low, the proportion of slaves so sold is 
only one in sixty ; and leaving out St. Vincent's and Tortola, which seem to 
involve some doubt, it is only one in eighty. 



Ill 

To the general prosperity of our country there are at present 
two grand exceptions, the West Indies and Ireland. The 
slavery of the West Indies, and the condition of a large 
part of the population of Ireland, form two dark places in the 
otherwise bright and cheering picture. It may, however, be 
incontestibly shewn, that the same cause which maintains 
the bondage of the colonial slaves, also serves to bind down 
the energies and prevent the prosperity of Ireland, and that 
the same remedy will tend to relieve them both. 

The people of Ireland are in distress, they want employ- 
ment, and agriculture cannot afford it; manufactures are 
therefore our only resource. But if a nation is to be set to 
work, new markets must be opened ; and India can furnish 
a market if we will take her produce in exchange. 

From the perfection of our cotton manufacture, we can 
now undersell the natives of India at the foot of their own 
looms. If the native who now makes cloth were employed 
in raising sugar there, the same labour required to make one 
piece of his own calico would raise sugar enough, if the duty 
were removed, to exchange for five pieces manufactured in 
England. 

By an extended cultivation of sugar in the East, a demand 
would arise for our manufactures in that quarter, sufficient to 
employ the miserable and degraded population of Ireland ; 
and when the people of Ireland are employed, that country 
will no longer remain a burden to us, but become an invalu- 
able support to the strength and stability of our empire.* 

a " Fourteen millions of people in Great Britain raise an annual reve- 
nue of more than fifty-two millions sterling. Seven millions of people in 
Ireland, if as fully employed as they are in Great Britain, would be able to 
raise twenty-six millions . In their present distressed and miserable condi- 
tion, they raise a revenue, and that with great difficulty, of four or five mil- 
lions. How largely, then, should we gain, even in revenue, by giving to 
Ireland the advantages of numerous manufactures and an extended trade. 
We might then take off more than a third of our present taxes." 

For a full investigation of this important subject, see a Pamphlet on the 
State of Ireland. By James Cropper. 



112 



In addition to all these advantages, in addition to the 
vast increase of prosperity which England would derive from 
an unrestricted commerce in exchanging her manufactures 
for the productions of the tropics, she would make an actual 
saving of about three millions sterling annually, now spent 
in bounties on West India produce, and in establishments 
and armies to keep the slaves in subjection, and of the lives 
of 2000 soldiers sacrificed every year in the pestilential cli- 
mate of the Antilles.* 

If it should be supposed that by the cultivation of sugar 
and cotton in the East, we are only transferring the burden 
from one set of oppressed beings to another, we are happily 
able to shew, that directly the reverse of this would be the 
fact. 

An increased demand for labour aggravates the oppres- 
sion of the slave, but is always beneficial to the free man. 

It has, indeed, been asserted, that there are slaves in 
India, and the objection has been much insisted on. Claims 
to servitude may still remain there, but it is admitted by a 
West Indian writer, that even there " they are not enforced, 
because they are not worth enforcing.'' 

From the great population and the cheapness of labour, 
it is impossible, in the nature of things, that slavery can 
exist, and, except in some remote and less peopled districts, 
we have the most satisfactory evidence that it does not. AJ1 
doubt upon the subject will be entirely set at rest by the pe- 
rusal of a Pamphlet entitled, A Letter to W. W. Whitmore, 
Esq. in reply to some observations of J. Marryat, Esq. on the 
existence of Slavery in the East Indies, to which we refer the 
reader. 

• Should the reader entertain any doubt of the immense sacrifices which 
we have already made, and are still making for the support of colonial sla- 
very, he is referred to an admirable Pamphlet, entitled England Enslaved by 
her own Slave Colonies. By James Stephen, Esq. It is there calculated, 
from official data, " that during the last thirty -two years, one British soldier 
or seaman at the least, in the prime of life, has fallen a victim to the death- 
ful service of the West Indies, for every white man, woman, and child that 
all our sugar colonies collectively contain ! ! ! 



lis 

But the cultivation of indigo has already proved so emi- 
nently beneficial to that part of the population of India em- 
ployed in it, as to render it nearly certain that the cultivation 
of sugar and other articles would be productive of conse- 
quences equally gratifying. 

" In the district of Terhout," says an intelligent observer, 
Captain M'Gowan, " where the British indigo planters are 
numerous and have long existed, there has undoubtedly and 
manifestly taken place a very happy improvement in the 
state of the natives, especially those connected, directly or 
indirectly, with the indigo planters, who are there so respect- 
able, and in general so beloved, as to be resorted to by the 
peasantry around them to arbitrate their disputes, instead of 
going to law or appealing to force ; also for communications 
of scientific, agricultural, mechanical, and other European 
discoveries ; and, lastly, for advice and medicine in troubles 
and sickness." 

What a vast field is opened, by means of an intercourse 
and influence like this, fur diffusing the blessings of civiliza- 
tion and religious light among the many millions in India 
now sunk in ignorance and idolatry. 

While India is receiving these inestimable benefits, Africa 
herself will advance with rapid progress in the career of im- 
provement. Relieved from the scourge which has spread 
barbarism and desolation over her shores, she will soon com- 
mence a more beneficial intercourse with the nations of 
Europe. In the peaceful interchange of our manufactures 
for the varied productions of her free and fertile soil, a com- 
merce will arise equally advantageous to both parties ; and, by 
communicating the arts of civilized life and the knowledge 
of the Gospel to her children, we shall be enabled to make 
some reparation for the centuries of wrong which we have 
inflicted. 

If such are the benefits which would arise from the un- 
shackled competition of free labour, it becomes the impera- 
tive duty of every one to employ his most strenuous exertions 



114 



for bringing about an end of such inestimable importance. 
A strong expression of the popular voice is alone necessary : 
but before this can be obtained, the national conscience must 
be awakened to a sense of the enormity of slavery, and the 
public mind must be enlightened on the means of procuring 
its extinction. By diffusing information upon the subject 
among all classes of the community, by means of the books 
and tracts which relate to it, every single individual may do 
much to promote this object. Each in his own sphere may 
labour to engage the earnest attention and active co-opera- 
tion of all whom he can influence. By labouring to combine 
the zeal and intelligence of his vicinage into associations for 
promoting the abolition of slavery, every individual may ren- 
der a most important service to humanity, and become a 
concurrent instrument in dispensing unspeakable blessings to 
millions yet unborn. And surely no man who has a spark of 
love to his country, and who believes that verily there is a 
God that judgeth the earth, will refuse to employ his utmost 
powers in forwarding this great work, and in contributing to 
raise the wretched slave from his present state of abject de- 
pression, and intellectual and spiritual blindness, to light, 
liberty, and the hope of the Gospel.* 

The great end to which our efforts should be, in the first 
place, directed, is, to obtain the removal of those monopolies 
which now form the main support of slavery. If these are 
withdrawn, it will soon cease of itself, and that with perfect 
safety and manifest advantage to all parties. It must be 
useless to make laws for abolishing slavery, as long as we 
suffer our own bounties and protections to counteract them.f 

* See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

■f Let it be for a moment supposed that we had succeeded in our efforts 
to induce foreign nations to abolish the slave trade, and that it had been 
made piracy, while we continued our bounties and protections. Sugar, as 
our planters expected, would probably have advanced, and with it the price 
of slaves; the inducements to smuggling would have increased, and the pre- 
diction of Bryan Edwards would have been verified, " that we might as well 



115 

Let us then use every effort in promoting petitions to the 
British Legislature, urging it to vindicate its own despised 
authority, but, above all, to sweep away those absurd restric- 
tions which rivet the chains of the slave. It is impossible to 
believe that if the People of England knew all the deplorable 
consequences of the bounties which they pay, they would 
suffer them to continue for a single session longer. 

The bounty is one means of enabling the planters to re- 
side in England, and thereby to neglect their concerns, whilst 
the tremendous powers they possess have been delegated to 
others, and a comparative destruction of their property in 
human beings, which, when the present decrease is added to 
what might be the increase, nearly amounts to three and a 
half per cent, annually, has been taking place, which alone 
almost counterbalances the whole of the bounty. 

We will for a moment suppose that this deterioration of 
property was not in the West Indies, but at Manchester ; 
that a portion of the manufacturers were living in London, 
and leaving to others the management of their business ; 
that they received a bounty on their manufactures, but that, 
on an average, this was absorbed in a destruction of about 
three and a half per cent, per annum on the goods, which 
would not have taken place under proper superintendence ; 
and lastly, that the article destroyed was not mankind, but 
pieces of calico. Is it possible that such a system could go 
on for' a single session after it was understood? And if it 
could not where the subject of it Avas inanimate merchandize, 
surely, for the honour of human nature, or the honour of our 
country, we ought not to suffer it to continue when the vic- 
tims of neglect or ill treatment are our fellow-men !* 

There is every reason to believe that the Government of 

attempt to chain the wind, and give laws to the ocean, as to abolish the slave 
trade, while it was so much the interest of the planters to carry it on." In 
the enforcement of our laws we should be inflicting death upon the very per- 
sons whom our own bounties had tempted to violate them. 

* See Cropper's Pamphlet on the State of Ireland. 



116 

this country is sincerely desirous to act in accordance with 
the real interests of the nation in this respect. The King's 
Speech at the opening of the session of 1825, has the follow- 
ing remarkable passage :— 

" His Majesty recommends to you to persevere (as cir- 
cumstances may allow) in the removal of similar restrictions 
on commerce: and his Majesty directs us to assure you, 
that you may rely on his Majesty's cordial co-operation in 
fostering and extending that commerce which, whilst it is, 
under the blessing of Providence, a main source of strength 
and power to the country, contributes in no less a degree to 
the happiness and civilization of mankind."* 

No doubt, then, can be reasonably entertained of the 
sincere intentions of the Ministry ; but they have an inter- 
ested and powerful faction to contend with, and they require 
to be supported by the unanimous voice of the people ; and 
surely the people of this country will no longer continue to 
tolerate these absurd commercial regulations, by which they 
reject sugar when produced by the African in his own native 
and fertile soil, and at the same time give a bounty on his 
produce when converted into a slave, held in subjection by 
military force, and compelled to cultivate the exhausted soils 
of our West India islands. 

" I call upon you then solemnly," says Mr. Stephen, " as 
fellow-countrymen and fellow-christians, to exert yourselves 
to the utmost on this great and interesting occasion. If you 
would prevent further sacrifices of your manufacturing, com- 
mercial, and maritime interests, of your revenues and military 
means, and of the security even of your colonies themselves ; 
if you would maintain the independence and dignity of your 
Parliament, and its constitutional supremacy over the distant 
dependencies of the empire, without which they are a de- 
grading incumbrance and a nuisance ; if you would redeem 
the sacred pledges you have given to the unfortunate slaves, 

• See King's Speech, 1825. 



117 

and prevent the perpetuation in them and their innocent off- 
spring of a bondage disgraceful to the British and the Chris- 
tian name ; and if you would rescue yourselves from the 
abhorred necessity of imbruing your hands in their blood, 
when and as often as intolerable oppression urges them to a 
hopeless resistance — now, now is your time to be active."* 

But even if these hopes should fail, if Parliament should 
refuse to legislate for the Colonies, or to take off the restric- 
tive duties on the sugars of British India, one resource will 
yet be left to us. The labour of free men is so much cheaper 
than that of slaves, that in spite of these restrictions it will 
still be in the power of the friends of emancipation, by giv- 
ing direct encouragement to the increased production of sugar 
by free labour, in no long time so to lower the cost of the ar- 
ticle as to make it the clear interest not only of the whole 
population of the United Kingdom, but of all Europe, to give 
a preference to such sugar, and thus to lead them, of them- 
selves and spontaneously, to contribute their assistance in 
depriving the existing system of slavery, in the foreign as 
well as in the British colonies, of its main support; and thus 
also to put a final period to that slave trade which, to the 
indelible disgrace of certain European powers, and in con- 
tempt of their solemn engagements, still prevails under their 
flags on the coast of Africa. 

The British dominions in Asia are well adapted to the 
growth of this article, and are capable of supplying it to an 
indefinite extent; but from the unskilfulness of the natives in 
the process of manufacturing it, combined with their want of 
capital and the fiscal restrictions to which it is subject, little 
progress has hitherto been made in introducing the sugar of 
that part of the world into general consumption. If effectual 
means, however, were adopted for obviating these disadvan- 
tages, the sugar trade of British India could not fail rapidly 
to increase. The requisite means to this end have been fully 

* See England Enslaved, &c. p. 80, 81. 

I 



118 



pointed out in a small pamphlet published by Hatchard, and 
entitled," East India Sugar; or an Inquiry respecting the 
Means of improving the Quality and reducing the Cost of 
Sugar raised by Free Labour in the East Indies." 

That East India Sugar may be made a profitable article 
of culture, even under all the disadvantages with which it has 
to contend, no one who candidly examines the evidence there 
produced will doubt. 

In a country, however, circumstanced as India is, the 
same means of promoting the culture of sugar must be re- 
sorted to which have proved so- signally successful in the 
case of indigo. British capital and British intelligence must 
give the necessary direction and impulse to the industry of 
tile native farmer. With that view, information on the sub- 
ject has already been widely diffused ; and much attention 
has of late been turned to this object and to the means of at- 
taining it. Still, if it should be left entirely to individual 
enterprise to excite the industry either of the Hindoos or of 
the free labourers in other tropical countries, the progress of 
things to this consummation would probably be slow. 

In order to accelerate it, a Company has been formed, 
under the title of The Tropical Free Labour Company. The 
object of this Company is to promote the growth and im • 
prove the manufacture of sugar and other tropical produc- 
tions by free labour, in every part of the world where it may 
be practicable, but, at present, more especially in British 
India ; and to facilitate the admission of these productions 
into general use, not only in the united kingdom, but in every 
other part of the world. A particular description of the me- 
thods by which the Company proposes to effect these objects, 
and of the plan on which it will be conducted, will be found 
in a prospectus already published, and in Appendix E to the 
Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. As the shares 
are very small, it is in the power of every individual, by taking 
a larger or a smaller number, to lend his efficient support to 
a measure which, if it succeed, must eventually tend to under- 



119 

mine the very foundation on which rests the slavery not only 
of the 800,000 negroes in the Colonies of Great Britain, but 
of the four or five millions who are held in bondage in other 
parts of the Western world ; and to put a final termination 
also to the slave trade, which is the disgrace of Europe and 
the scourge of Afi ica.* 

But there is yet another method by which individual exer- 
tions may effectually assist in promoting the competition of 
free labour. At present, as we have stated, the culture of 
sugar in British India is but in its infancy, and labours under 
all the disadvantages of an infant trade. The manufacture 
is miserably imperfect and highly injurious to the quality of 
the article produced, which is afterwards burdened with the 
heavy freight of a voyage to Europe and an additional duty 
of 1 0s. per cwt. in this country beyond what is imposed upon 
slave-grown sugar. Under these circumstances, we cannot 
be surprised that it is still somewhat dearer to the consumer, 
bnt it should rather excite surprise, that it can compete with 
slave-grown sugar at all. But as a continued increase of 
demand will most effectually promote the flow of British 
capital to its cultivation, and the consequent extension and 
improvement of the manufacture, it is a matter of great 
importance that this demand should be kept up in order to fos- 
ter the trade and to hasten the period at which it may be in- 
troduced at a cheaper rate. 

A wide field is therefore open for individual exertion in 
promoting the consumption of free-labour sugar, on grounds 

• We regret to say that this Company has been recently dissolved. As 
soon as a sufficient number of shares had been subscribed for, the Provisional 
Committee used their utmost efforts to get the Association legally incorpo- 
rated. They first endeavoured to obtain an Act of Parliament for this pur- 
pose, and afterwards tried to effect their object by a Petition to the King in 
Council, but were alike unsuccessful in both, and it was in consequence 
found necessary to relinquish the undertaking. It will be difficult to account 
for the decision of the Ministry upon this occasion — a decision so much at 
variance with their avowed principles — unless we attribute it to the powerful 
influence of the West India Body. 

i 2 



■&. 



120 

of benevolence, in preference to that grown by slaves. All 
the efforts which the Friends of the Abolition of Slavery have 
hitherto used for this purpose have proved signally successful, 
and have afforded good ground to hope, that if all other means 
should fail, the great object of their endeavours might be 
attained by inducing a general preference for the productions 
of freedom. 

But there is one consideration which greatly enhances the 
importance of our labours for this object — that let the result 
of other efforts be what it may, they cannot fail of producing 
an important effect. Whether the restrictive duties be or be 
not abolished, these efforts must tend to accelerate the 
triumph of free labour and the downfal of slavery. 

And let no one be tempted to consider his individual 
exertions for such an object unimportant, or the benefits that 
will arise from them uncertain. It is true that innumerable 
efforts will be necessary for accomplishing the end we have in 
view ; but that end is itself of such vast importance, that the 
value of every single effort cannot be too highly estimated. 
When we reflect that more than five millions of our fellow- 
creatures are existing at the present moment in the lowest 
state of moral and physical degradation, and, above all, 
when we consider that at least three hundred unhappy beings 
are computed to be every day torn from their country* and 
from all that is dear to them in life, and consigned to the 
same hapless condition of servitude, it is impossible, surely, 
to believe that any thing is unimportant which tends in the 



• IS Appendix N, of the last Report (the Twentieth) of the African 
Institution, we have a list of -230 vessels known to be engaged in the Slave 
Trade, as reported in the papers on that subject presented to Parliament in 
the Session of 1826. Now if we suppose this list to comprehend all the 
vessels actually engaged in the trade, which is scarcely probable, and allow 
a cargo of 250 slaves on the average to each vessel, and if we also reckon 
two voyages to be made annually, we have an aggregate of 115,000 slaves 
carried away every year from Africa, heing more than three hundred every 
day. 



121 

smallest degree to hasten the period at which evils of such 
magnitude shall cease. 

If the final extinction of the slave trade were the only 
object we sought to accomplish, and if our united efforts 
were only to hasten the period of that extinction a single day, 
we should even then have effected much. But if there be 
any truth in the principles we have attempted to unfold, our 
exertions to procure a preference for the produce of free la- 
bour will, in the end, prevent the ravages of this trade, not 
for days only, but for years and for centuries. How vast, 
then, may be the amount of human crime and human suffer- 
ing which the feeblest labourer in this field of exertion will 
be instrumental in sweeping away for ever. 

It is a very common objection to the measures which it 
has been a main object of this publication to recommend, 
that they would bring ruin upon the West Indian Proprietors. 
But it has been, we trust, satisfactorily shewn, that if there 
be truth in history, or certainty in political science, the down- 
fal of the present system, and of the restrictive laws which 
maintain it, would prove beneficial to none more than to the 
colonists themselves. 

Yet, if it were otherwise, it is too much to require that the 
pecuniary interests of 1600 or 1800 sugar planters should be 
allowed to come into competition with the comfort, the 
health, the liberty, and the lives of seven or eight hundred 
thousand human beings, and with the clear interests of the 
whole community of the British empire. 

If the Planters, however, can make out an equitable claim 
to compensation, let them by all means receive it. They 
might be indemnified for any possible loss by a very small 
portion of what the country would gain by the adoption of 
a more enlightened policy. The vast national advantages 
which would arise from such a policy have been already in- 
sisted on. The amount of the bounty alone, the saving of 
which forms but a small portion of these advantages, if paid 



v 122 

directly to the Planters, would amply compensate them for 
any losses they might incur.* 

" But let it be supposed," says Stephen, " as between the 
Planter and the State, compensation ought to be a simulta- 
neous measure with reform, or, if you will, a previous one ; 
still, what is the reference to the one, as an objection to the 
other, but a shameful appeal to the avarice or economical 
prudence of the country against its honour and its con- 
science ? To the moral rights of the slave it is just as valid 
a bar as a plea of associated robbers would be against making 
restitution to the injured party, that it would require a contri- 
bution from the gang. Even this illustration is inadequate, 
for the question here is, not merely whether we shall restore, 
but whether, as the alternative, we shall add wrong to wrong, 
inflicting the same calamities on generations yet unborn, en- 
slaving the offspring lest we should have to pay for the 
redemption of the parents, and subduing all resistance from 
either by the effusion of innocent blood. "f 

But there is yet one more objection which is often made, 
and which has lately in particular been much urged by the 
opponents of emancipation. Acknowledging the truth of 
our general principles, it is said that such is the incurable 
indolence and deep degradation of the negro character, that 
when the West Indian slaves become free, they will remain 
insensible to the motives which operate upon the rest of man- 
kind. It is asserted that they will refuse to work, that all 
industry and exertion will be at an end, and that they will 
merge again into the state of savages. If, however, proof 
were wanting of the industry which the emancipated sons of 
Africa may be expected to exert, we have only to look at the 
state of the free black and coloured population in our own 
colonies. They are there a contemned and degraded race, 

• See on this subject, Cropper's Relief of West Indian Distress, and 
Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

•\ England Enslaved by her own Slave Colonies, p. 79. 



123 

labouring under numerous disabilities which leave them free 
but in name. Their efforts are cramped and limited by op- 
pressive regulations, and they are excluded from all public 
employment either civil or military. Let their education, 
their intelligence, their respectability, their property, be what 
it may, they are shut out from exercising the most ordinary 
rights of citizenship, even the right of sitting on juries or 
of voting as fieeholders. With them the very lov/est white 
disdains to associate, says Mr. Edwards, and " holds it an 
abomination even to eat bread." And yet, labouring under 
all these multiplied disabilities and discouragements, " tend- 
ing," as the same author justly observes, " to degrade them 
in their own eyes and in the eyes of the community, to make 
them at once wretched and useless, without motives of suf- 
ficient energy to engage them either in the service of their 
country or in profitable labour for their own advantage; their 
improvement in knowledge being animated by no encourage- 
ment, their attachment being received without approbation, 
and their diligence exerted without reward ; yet, notwith- 
standing all these disadvantages, what the people of colour 
have actually done to surmount them, and to raise themselves 
in the scale of society, has been in the highest degree credit- 
able to their character and powers, and affords a most encou- 
raging earnest of what may be expected from them under 
more auspicious circumstances, and when they shall be ad- 
mitted to a full participation in the rights of British subjects." 

In the island of Trinidad, a full half of the property is 
said to belong to emancipated Africans or their descendants ; 
and it has never been charged upon them there, that they are 
deficient in industry and intelligence, or that they do not ful- 
fil the part of goud and loyal citizens. 

In Grenada, the free black and coloured inhabitants are 
more than three times as numerous as the whites. Two years 
ago they petitioned the Assembly for an extension of their 
civil rights, grounding the claim on their tried loyalty, their 
patience and good conduct, their intelligence and respect- 



124 

ability, the largeness of their property and of their contribu- 
tions to the revenue of the island, as well as on their impor- 
tance, as a militia, to its defence and security. In the 
resolutions adopted by the Assembly in consequence of this 
petition, these claims to consideration are fully admitted, and 
the persons petitioning are declared to be " a respectable, 
well behaved class of the community, and possessed of 
considerable property in the colony." 

In Jamaica also, which is now said to contain 40,000 free 
black and coloured inhabitants, a number far exceeding that 
of the whites, it is Only necessary to call for the tax-rolls in 
order to see how largely they contribute to the revenue of the 
island, and consequently how efficiently their industry must 
be exerted. They all, at the least, entirely maintain them- 
selves, and many of them are wealthy. And yet, in Jamaica, 
as in other colonies, they still labour under severe disquali- 
cations, and continue to be a degraded and contemned 
race.* 

In addition to these facts, there is one circumstance not 
generally known, which must be deemed conclusive as to the 
energy and activity of the negro character. It is this, that 
among the free black and coloured population of our colonies, 
numerous as it is, there are very few paupers. This is the 
case in every colony, but in St. Lucia the correctness of the 
assertion has been very recently confirmed in the correspon- 
dence between Earl Bathurst and the Governor, General 
Mainwaring, on the subject of the new laws. 

Lord Bathurst had proposed to require a bond, in case of 
the manumission of children under a certain age, to prevent 
their becoming chargeable to the island. General Main- 
waring (not being aware how strongly, with a view to defend 
taxes, bonds, &c. in cases of manumission, the West Indians 
generally had dwelt on the dangers of pauperism), answers, 
with great simplicity, " I cannot conceive a case in which 

" See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



125 

such a bond would be necessary for children under the exist- 
ing order of things : your Lordship may not be aware that 
there are no paupers in this colony" — obviously meaning no 
free persons who are paupers.* 

But the returns made to the House of Commons during 
the last Session, and ordered to be printed on the 9th of 
May, 1826, furnish still more recent and decisive evidence 
upon this subject. 

Ir appears by these returns, that in Barbadoesthe average 
annual number of paupers in nine parishes is 998, all of 
whom, tuith a single exception, are white, although the free 
black and coloured inhabitants amount to at least 4 or 
5,000. 

In Dominica, where the free black and coloured popula- 
tion amounts to 3,122, only ten persons of that class had 
received relief from the poor fund during a period of five 
years. 

Grenada furnishes a still more striking exemplification of 
the independence of the free black and coloured population. 
They amounted in 1825 to 3,486, but in this island the ex- 
pence of the Colony Hospital, which alone appears to give 
relief to paupers, is only £264 sterling per annum, and even 
this includes the salaries of officers, the treasurer having 
£50 sterling a year. But it does not appear that any part of 
this small sum was applied to the relief of free blacks or 
persons of colour. 

In St. Vincent's the white population of the island is 
stated in 1825 to be 1,301; the free black and coloured 
population, 2,824. " We have never had," says Sir C. Bris- 
bane, the Governor, " any poor's-rate or other taxes levied 
for the support of the poor. The few paupers, always white, 
who occasionally resort hither, are generally supported from 
the town funds." 

In Jamaica it appears that the proportion of white pau- 

* See Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 97. 



126 

pers to those of the black and coloured class, according to 
the whole population of each, is as four to one. 

In Nevis as twenty-eight to one. 

In Tortola as fourteen to one. 

In short, in a population of free blacks and people of 
colour amounting to from 80,000 to 90,000, only 229 persons 
have received relief, however small, as paupers, being about 
one in each 370 persons, exhibiting altogether an example of 
ease and independence not to be paralleled in any other part 
of the British dominions, or among any other class of his 
Majesty's subjects.* 

But if no other facts were in existence, the example of 
Hayti alone would be amply sufficient to prove the energy 
and industry of the emancipated African. There the slaves 
were to the full as depressed as our slaves now are, and much 
more ignorant. They have been engaged also in a struggle 
for liberty through a long protracted period of blood and 
desolation, of confusion and anarchy. Twenty years of san- 
guinary conflict of the most barbarizing description, some- 
times with foreign, sometimes with domestic enemies, were 
little calculated to train them to habits of industry, or to the 
arts of peace. And yet what do we witness in their case ? 
They have contrived, in the period which has since elapsed, 
at least to maintain themselves without any foreign aid. 
Though it was necessary, and still unhappily is necessary, 
to keep a large portion of the ablest and most active labour- 
ers under arms (who are of course sustained by the labour of 
the rest), their own exertions have alone ministered to their 
subsistence, as well as defrayed the entire expenditure of the 
state. They have not only abundantly supplied their wants 
by their own labour, but they have nearly, if not more than 
doubled their numbers in twenty years. And while they 
have done this, they have been advancing in intelligence, 
respectability, and wealth. Schools have been multiplied 

* See Anti- Slavery Monthly Reporter, No. 19. 



127 

among them — knowledge has been widely diffused — the arts 
of civilized life have been cultivated — the reign of order and 
law has been established — security has been given to pro- 
perty — and industry, having its reward, has been progres- 
sively extending its boundaries.* 

It cannot, then, be necessary to dwell any longer upon 
this part of the subject. In Europe the cultivators of the 
soil were once enslaved ; and with the evidence of facts like 
these, it is impossible to doubt that the emancipation of the 
negro race would be attended with a success as brilliant as 
that of the bondsmen of Europe. 

" The enfranchisement of the European population," 
observes Ganihl, " has been followed by tillage and culti- 
vation, by the conversion of cabins into cottages, hamlets 
into villages, villages into towns, and towns into cities, by 
the establishment of industry and commerce, of public or- 
der, and of social power. 

" The people who have first distinguished themselves on 
the political theatre are precisely those who have first substi- 
tuted the labour of the free man for that of the slave ; and 
other nations have only been able to rise to the same prospe- 
rity by imitating their example. In fine, the era of the eco- 
nomical and political regeneration of modern Europe is 
coincident with the abolition of real and personal slavery." 

" And why may not the same glorious consequences," 
says Hodgson in his letter to Say, " follow the abolition of 
slavery in the West. Is it in Europe only that the mind can 
awake from the torpor of slavery to life and intelligence ? 
What shall we say, then, to the abolition of slavery, under 
British auspices, in Ceylon, in Java, in Sumatra, and in St. 
Helena ? Or is it the African alone who imbibes a poison 
from the bitter cup which no antidote can cure, but which 
flows in the veins, and attaints the blood of his latest poste- 
rity? To you, Sir, it would be most unjust to impute such an 
opinion ; but if it should be entertained by any of your country- 
* See Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



128 

men, I would refer them to the experiment lately made in Co- 
lombia, where a great body of slaves have been emancipated, 
who are said ' to have conducted themselves with a degree of 
industry, sobriety, and order, highly creditable to them.' 
I would refer them to the instance of the American slaves 
who joined the British standard in the last war, and who are 
now settled in Trinidad, where, under the protection of Sir 
Ralph Woodford, the Governor, ' they are earning their 
subsistence,' Mr. "Wilberforce informs us, ' with so much 
industry and good conduct, as to have put to silence all the 
calumnies which were first urged against the measure.' I 
would refer them to the testimony of a traveller whose autho- 
rity they will not dispute, the enterprising and philosophical 
Humboldt. ' In all these excursions/ he observes, ' we 
were agreeably surprised, not only at the progress of agri- 
culture, but the increase of a free, laborious population, ac- 
customed to toil, and too poor to rely on the assistance of 
slaves. White and black farmers had every where separate 
establishments. I love to dwell on these details of colonial 
industry, because they prove to the inhabitants of Europe 
what to the enlightened inhabitants of the colonies has long 
ceased to be doubtful, that the continent of Spanish America 
can produce sugar and indigo by free hands, and that the 
unhappy slaves are capable of becoming peasants, farmers, 
and land-holders.' I would refer them to the interesting and 
flourishing colony of Sierra Leone, that morning star of 
Africa, which beams so brightly on her sable brow. Or, 
lastly, I would refer them to a dark page in your Colonial his- 
tory, where the refutation of their opinion is written in cha- 
racters of fire. 

" Why, then, I wou'd ask again, may not the same glorious 
consequences which followed the abolition of slavery in 
Europe, follow its abolition in the West ? < The abolition of 
the slave trade,' says Brougham, ' assisted by subordinate 
arrangements, similar to those adopted in the ancient states, 
in the feudal kingdoms, and in the American colonies, will 



129 

most undoubtedly alter the whole face of things in the new 
world. The negroes, placed in almost the same circum- 
stances with the bondmen of ancient Europe and the slaves 
of the classic times, will begin the same career of improve- 
ment. The society of the West Indies will no longer be 
that anomalous, defective, and disgusting monster of politi- 
cal existence, which we have so often been forced to contem- 
plate in the course of this inquiry. The foundation of rapid 
improvement will be securely laid, both for the whites, the 
negroes, and the mixed race. A strong and compact politi- 
cal structure will arise under the influence of a mild, civi- 
lized, and enlightened system. The vast continent of Africa 
will keep pace with the quick improvement of the world 
which she has peopled ; and in those regions where, as yet, 
only the war-whoop, the lash, and the cries of misery have 
divided with the beasts the silence of the desert, our chil- 
dren, and the children of our slaves, may enjoy the delight- 
ful prospect of that benign and splendid reign which is 
exercised by the arts, the sciences, and the virtues of modern 
Europe.' " 



FINIS. 



