ARGUMENTS 



IN 



SUPPORT OF THE PROPOSED BILL 



FOR THE 



REGISTRATION OF SLAVES 



IN THE 



mt$t 31nt5(an Colonies ; 

< 

BEING 

A REPLY 

TO THE 

WORK OF MR. CHALMERS, 



Proofs and Demonstrations how much the projected Registry of Colonial Negroes 
is unfounded and uncalled for : comprehending the Reports and Resolves of the 
Bahama Assembly, on the Principle and Detail of the proponed Registry : with 
the Examinations, on Oath, of tlie most respectable Persons, as to the Facts of 
the Case. The whole arranged, and an Introduction prefixed, by Gtorgt Chal- 
mers, F. R. S. S. A. 



EXTRACTED FROM THE PHILANTHROPIST FOR JAN. 1817. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED BY BENSLEY AND SON, 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street. 

1817. 



, A 1 D f\ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/argumentsinsuppoOOIond 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



iHE writer of the following pages has happily developed 
and exposed to public notice the efforts of a party, through 
the medium of their avowed advocate and organ, to rivet 
and perpetuate the chains that gall the persons of a large 
portion of his Majesfi/'s subjects in the West Indies. It is, 
therefore, only a mere act of justice to the cause, which, 
with its advocates, has been so shamefully calumniated, and 
in wiiich the writer has produced so able and masterly a 
disquisition, to give it an extended diffusion throughout the 
country. 

The friends of the African race, from the commencement 
of their endeavours (now more than thirty years ago) to 
alleviate the miseries, the indescribable miseries, of that 
unhappy people, haVe never lost sight of the real interests 
of those of tljeir fellow-subjects to whom the laws of the 
country have conceded the power of retaining their fellow 
men in slavery. They are as well convinced, as the holders 
of slaves themselves, that the premature emancipation of a 
clais of beings, depressed and degraded as the slaves arc 
below the par of human nature, v.ould not only most seri- 
ously affect their employers, but would be fiaught with in- 
calcuhdde injury to the individuals under such moral and 
iMtcllectuai privatioua. 

n '2 



IV ADVERTISEMENT. 

The practice of slavery is now generally reprobated 
throughout Europe ; and even the Algerine has been com- 
pelled to relinquish his inveterate habits, and to cease 
from subjecting his fellow men to that abhorred state. 
May we not then entertain a hope, that the day is fast ap- 
proaching when Algerine principle and practice will be for 
ever discarded from every part of the British dominions? 

It may, without hesitation, be averred, that it is acting 
a kind part towards the white population of the West Indian 
Islands, to recommend them most seriously and cordially to 
set about ameliorating the condition of their slaves, and that 
for their own sakes ; for, without pretending to the spirit of 
prediction, it may with confidence be presumed, and it is 
earnestly suggested to the notice of the West Indian planters, 
that their present system cannot stand; that there is a more 
tremendous and overwhelming power than the fleet of Lord 
Exmouth in full sail towards their shores ; a power, before 
which all the high-toned sentiments and lordly declarations 
of bodies of men as well as individuals will vanish like smoke; 
for The March of Truth has been rapid within these 
few years, and its progress will be irresistible 



ARGUMENTS, 



VV E have already, in two articles^ in two preceding numbers, exhi- 
bited an outline of the reasons which indicate the importance of a 
registration of the slaves in the West Indies ; and have exhibited a 
considerable portion of the objections to that measure, with answers 
to them. 

We do not expect the opponents of that registration to be easily 
silenced. To refute is one thing ; to silence is another. The heat 
with which it is opposed shows evidently, that strong interests are 
affected by it. And where strong interests are afft-cted, men com- 
monly are far enough from yielding, when only defeated in argu- 
ment. A good argument cannot be answered j but nothing in the 
world is more easy than to resist it. This is a task to which either 
ignorance, or dishonesty, is always perfectly competent. 

We have said, that the conduct of the Wfst India gentlemen 
proves the existence of strong interests in opposition to the registra- 
tion act : this they do not deny. The only question then is, whe- 
ther these interests are legitimate or illegitimate interests ; interests 
which good legislation will seek to promote, or interests which it will 
endeavour to destroy. We have endeavoured to show, and have, we 
think, shown, that no legitimate interests are opposed to the registra- 
tion act ; no interests, but such as a good legislature will always en- 
deavour to subvert. In the mean time the press is not idle with 
publications which attempt to maintain the opposite doctrine. We 
deem it our duty to examine all of them which contain any thing 
remarkable; and we expect not to meet with any which contain rinore 
of what is remarkable than the production before us. 

We have remarked in a former number, and we think the fact is 
of great importance — tl)at the general arguments which are urgf:d by 



tlie opponents of the measure are almost all such arguments as prove 
that wherever power exists, the right also exists of abusing that 
power} they are, almost nil of them, the very arguments which have 
been employed to prove " the right divine of governing wrong;" they 
are, almost all, the very arguments which have been employed to prove, 
that the privileged fe%v have a right to every thing they choose— the 
non-prii'ilegeil many , a right to nothing at all. 

We perceive also, that the accusations, which these advoc:Ues for 
the right of abusing power advance- against their opponents, are pretty 
numerous. For example, we p'-rceive that one of their accusations 
against them is — that they are religious; or that they are saints. 
But the grand accusation of all is, that they will not admit any such 
right, as the right of governing wrong. If they will not admit that 
right, there is no crime, it seems, of which they will not be guilty. 
They are Anarchists ! Jacobins ! Incendiaries ! every thing horrible 
which the imagination can conceive ! 

If this be the mode of arguing, as \\h. affirm it is, and appeal to 
the publications before the world for our proof, we leave the reader 
to estimate the importance of the f ict ; we leave him to judge what 
sort of a can?ie ihat must ever be, wiiieh needs to be supported by 
such doctrines ! 

Mr, Chalmers begins : " One of the wisest of men has said, that 
there is nolhiag new under the sun;" and doubtless we owe him 
much for such a repetitiou ! It did not suit Mr. Chalmers to tellus 
in what sense it is true, and in what sense it is not true. That 
might have been saintshipi or Jacobinism. In one sense of the word 
new, andi that the most ccjiiimon sense, every thing under the sun is 
new, as no one event is ever the same with any other event. Every 
day is a new day ; a-nd every night a new night. Vv'^hen Mr. Chal- 
mers came into the world, he was surely a new man, and not the 
same with any that had ever existed before him. If by the word 
new, however, he only means that there is nothing new which bears 
not some resemblanci", some an;ilo;;y, more near or more remote, to 
something or another which has existed be.'"ore, this is indeed true; 
but what it makes to the present purpose we leave for Mr. Chalmers 
to demonstrate. 

We shall now quote a passage from Mr. Chalmers. It is pretty 
long,; but it is one of the most instructive we ever read. 



" ThejACOBiNsofour own times have said nothing, and done little, 
that is altogether new. Godwin and Peniy, in our own nation, and, 
Languet and Le Coq, in the neighbouring-kingdom, during the reign' 
of Elizabeth, avowed the wildest doctrines, scribbled the most sedi- 
tious sentiments, tending to sap the fundamentals of society; and 
by insinuation and perseverance endeavoured to convince the mul- 
titude, that nothing established could stand in the way of their pro- 
jected changes. In all their plans and proceedings they persever- 
ingly supposed, that they had only to wave their wands of innova- 
tion, to dissolve the potentates and powers of the earth into airy 
nothing. A wise sovereign, however, and an able minister, had the 
good fortune, the result of their wisdom, to preserve the state unim- 
paired, notwithstanding the private intrigues and open seditiousness 
of such innovators, who ventured their lives in prosecuting their dan- 
gerous projects.* 

" But the principles of those plausible innovators were now sown 
in every district of our island. New men every where sprung up, 
who had learned the dangerous doctrines of those seditious charac- 
ters ; who, with equal skill and boldness, were as active and perse- 
vering. They callt-d in religion to their aid ; they adopted an ap- 
pearance of piousness in their daily discourse ; they practised every 
sort of deception, while they openly inculcated the most specious 
habits of fair dealing; they assumed every shape to gain their va- 
rious ends ; they engaged many proselytes by the plausibility of 
their pretensions, the piety of their speech, and the apparent purity 
of their usual manners. They thus made a prodigious impression on 
the great body of the people, even before that saddest epoch in our 
eventful annals, ' when civil dudgeon first ran high.' After pro- 
selyting the people to their doctrines, and preparing them for change, 
during a series of disputatious years, a civil war was the wretched 
result. The conflicts of a dozen years drenched the nation in kin- 
dred blood. The whole fabric of the constitution in church and state 
was torn down ; when the peers' house was voted to be useless ; and 
the «ovf reigii head of both, by a prodigious perversion of common 
justice and common sense, was brought to the scaffold, 

' By vilest hands to vulgur use dehasud, 
AVilli sacrilegious, taunt, and impious jest.' 

* The practices of Penry brougJit that intriguing icribbicr to tlie EiJabct. 



8 

'^ Contemporary writers of great names embodied into history 
those various principles and dangerous practices, all those civil con- 
tests and domestic warfare, with their sad effects, the ruin of the con- 
stitution, and the sacrifice of the sovereign. The historians of our 
own age have related the same events, and inculcated the instructive 
lessons, resulting from the facts, which it is the peculiar province of 
history to teach statesmen and legislators for their practical govern- 
ment. But, whatever might be the celebrity of some of those histo- 
rians, their lessons of experience did not prevent the neighbouring 
nation, though of somewhat different cast, from running a similar 
race of frantic folly. The men who produced events of such mighty 
mischief in Britain were called Puritans from their affectations : the 
men who deluded France to her destruction and disgrace, acquired 
the odious name of Jacobins from the appellation of their establish- 
ment. Alas ! what devastations and injury have not the French 
revolutions brought upon Europe ! In order to restore such a va- 
riety of nations to their former situations, how many thousands of 
brave men have we not lost ! How many hundred millions of ster- 
ling money has not Britain expended ! in a noble cause, indeed, but 
to the embarrassment of the state, and the distress of the people. 
' Distressful and desolating events, which have attended the mis- 
takes of politicians, should be ever present in their minds,' saith the 
wise and virtuous Watts. 

" Yet, from all those ' distressful and desolating events,' have our 
people, have our 'politicians* learned the lessons of experience ? 
No. Do not the descendants of the men who propagated such wild 
doctrines, and introduced such disordered practices in our island 
during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, still exist among 
us ? as wild in their theories, as busy in their habits, as abominable 
in their ends, as ever ! Have we not amongst us societies of every 
sort and size, for effecting every purpose by any means ? Yes : if 
we may judge from what we hear and see ; if we may decide from 
the doctrines of their predecessors, and the daily practices of the 
existing members of those clubs. One of those societies came out 
of late to protect the persecuted protestants of France. They were 
told that the character of the facts did not evince any thing like 
persecution : yet they persevered. They were informed, that the 
French protestants, trusting to their king's charter, did not want 



their help. They continued, however, to collect money, and to 
raise the cry of persecution. At length, was published a letter 
to the same society, from the chief of our armies in France, who 
seems to be as great a statesman as a soldier, assuring them that 
there was no persecution ; that the French protestnnts relied for 
protection and favour on the king and his charters. Yet did our 
society, concealing this letter, with its assurances, persevere in its 
outcries and collections. Another letter to our society was soon 
after published, from one of the ruling protestants in F'rance, as- 
suring our society that they were not persecuted 5 that they trusted 
to the king's charter ; that they desired not any aid from abroad. 
Yet our society, concealing also this letter, continued the outcries 
of persecution 3 inviting the English people to pity the persecuted, 
and to contribute some money for their protection. Our society 
was now charged with disingenuously concealing those letters and 
assurances, for giving stage effect to their practices, however abo- 
minable. Our society now stammered in speech, blustered a little, 
and again retired under the shelter of invisibility. The whole con-^ 
duct of our society showed, however, to intelligent eyes, that they 
were a disciplined body, who acted under command. Here is a ge- 
nuine picture of the ancient Puritans ! the same purpose of sedition ; 
the same activity of intermeddling ; the same disingenuousness ; the 
same perseverance of design. We may thus see, incidentally, that 
we have societies among us who, at the beat of the ' drum ec- 
clesiastic,' are ready to rise, to agitate the multitude, to delude 
the credulous, to carry their object by whatever means. Yes, we 
have our clubs and institutes, serious and spiritual, philosophical 
and political. Whoever reads with any attention the journals as 
they come out, daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly, must clearly 
perceive, that there are many pens employed, under whatever di- 
rection, to agitate the people, to heighten their prejudices, to mis- 
represent the principles of our religion, to sap the foundations of 
our establishments in church and state, to malign and distress, 
to incite and irritate the transatlantic departments of our exten- 
sive empire. 

" Yet, danger is not apprehended. When some clubs were lately 
formed at Paris, consisting chiefly of popular delegates of no small 



1^ 

nete> how ready were we, by our publications, to instruct the mem- 
bers of the Parisian clubs, how such clubs had produced so many 
revolutions in France ; how dangerous they were to the purity and 
independence of the two Chambers of the assembled Estates ; and 
how much it behoved all wise and well-meaning men to discourage 
such clubs, or similar institutions ; considerhig their mischievous 
effects on the constituted authorities, by influencing their proceed- 
ings, and on the general quiet, by agitating the popular mind ! But, 
quick as we were in seeing the rise of the Parisian clubs, and active 
as we were in detecting their dangerous tendency, we seem not to 
have looked, with any emotion, on our own societies, clubs, and 
institutes J we seem not to have inquired much about their pro- 
ceedings at home or abroad, whether salutary or dangerous ; whe- 
ther any of those institutes coveted the loaves and fishes of the com- 
munity ; whether they intrigued for the promotion of their friends, 
in their worldly concernments ; whether they interposed in the 
common proceedings of our constituted authorities, either to forward 
their measures, or retard their ends. So much more apt are we to 
extend our observations to foreign countries, than to look at home, 
for objects of reprehension, or measures of danger. 

*' Of those several societies and clubs, the most BOtable must be 
allowed to be the African Institution ; whether we regard its num- 
bers. and names, its avowed objects and daily pursuits, or the cloud 
which involves its ultimate aims in the darkest obscurity; When 
the Slave Trade was finally abolished in 1807, this Institution stems 
to have risen out of the remains of that society and party, which 
obtained that measure, after eighteen years struggle. The avowed 
objects of that Institution appear to have been various, and benefi* 
cent ; chiefly tending ' to remove the barriers, which have so long 
obstructed the natural course of improvement in Africa.' To civilize 
such a country, to instruct and energize such a people, and to con- 
vert barbarity to civilization, wefe noble objects, which were be- 
yond their power. Such objects were, perhaps, merely thrown out, 
to captivate benevolence, to incite attention, and to gain associates. 
By attempting impossibilities, the African Institution appears, 
from every information, to have egregiously failed in all. In fact, 
Afried has not been civilized and instructed j Africa has not been 
energized, and' habituated to husbandry. If we may believe the 



11 

representations of some of the governors of the African factories, 
the wretched inhabitants, near the western coast, have rather fallen 
back into idleness ; and to be more than ever, to use Thomson's 
language, 

' A brulo, iinlivc'ly ni;i->s, inert, and deud.' 

" And if those failures had been foreseen, the Institution goes on 
to avow some other objects : ' It may be proper to premise, that it 
will naturally become the duty and care of this society, to watch 
over the execution of the laws recently enacted in this and other 
countries, abolishing the African Slave Trade; to endeavour to pre- 
vent tiie infraclion of those laws ; and, from time to time, to sug- 
gest any means, by which ihey may be rendered more effectual to 
their objects ; and likewise to endeavour, by communicating in- 
formation, and by other appropriate methods, to promote the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade by Foreign Powers.* 

" Such, then, were the objects of this potent society ; though we 
may easily suppose, tliat the leaders had latent designs, which they 
were too circuinspfct to avow to th6 world." 

We now entreat the reader to go over this passage with us again, 
and with some attention ; it will reward our pains. Reflections 
which would fill up volumes arise from it. 

The writer begins with the word Jacobins, which he prints in 
capital^, to ^how what stress he lays upon it. And the whole aim of 
the passage, as the reader perceives, is to prove two things : in the 
first place, that to be a Jacobin is to be very wicked ; in the next 
plac^, that to seek to register the slaves in the West Indies, is to be 
a Jacobin. Let us examine these positions. 

In our last Number, we said, that upon an attentive consideration: 
of the use which is made of the word Jacobin, by all those who 
employ it, we find that, in nine times out of ten, it is applied not 
to any tiling wlitch is hurtful to mankind ; but appfn-d, as hero, to 
things which am beneficial to mankind ; often to things wliichi 
are in the highest degne beneficial, and are o))Iy hurllui to some 
illegitimate- interest of the parties who employ it. The prudent 
man, therefore, when he hears the word Jacobin applied, as it is 
applied in this case to the registration of slaves in the West In- 
dies, will not immediately, and as^a inatler of course, conclude, 
that' the thing to which it is applied, is a bad thing. He will 



12 

reason with himself thus : If the word Jacobin is applied, once 
indeed in ten times to things that are bad, but nine times in ten 
to things that are good, the probability is great, that, when I hear 
the word Jacobin, I hear of something, as this registration, of which 
I ought to approve. It is always possible, before I examine, that I 
shall find it applied to something that is bad ; it is, however, ten to 
one that I shall find it employed for no other purpose than to defeat, 
as here, some project for the good of mankind on a large scale, that 
some small knot of individuals may continue to enjoy some mischie- 
vous advantage. 

He mentions two old writers in our own country, and two in 
France j of whose writings at this moment we happen to have lit- 
tle or no knowledge. But we are very far indeed from supposing 
that they uttered any sentiments which were not of the highest 
importance to mankind, though they did not write agreeably to 
the persecuting and arbitrary governments of an Elizabeth and a 
Louis. We are far indeed from being sure that a person who 
was brought by Elizabeth " to the scaffold for scribbling," was 
not a martyr to the cause of human kind ! when we know, even 
from Hume, that she was with much difficulty prevented from 
bringing a man to the torture or the gibbet (we forget which), 
for writing some observations on her government, which, instead 
of being thought punishable, in even the slightest degree, would 
at the present day be thought fawning and slavish. The govern- 
ment of England under an Elizabeth, who menaced the represen- 
tatives of the people for "meddling with affairs of state 5" the 
government of France under a Richelieu, who perfected the mi- 
litary despotism ; — these exhibit the state of government which 
Mr. Chalmers admires ! and these are the political principles 
which are brought to cast odium upon the endeavours of those 
who wish to procure some of the rights of humanity for their co- 
loured brethren in the transatlantic isles ! The friends of the Blacks 
will not be ashamed of being classed with the friends of liberty, all 
over the world. And the Blacks may rejoice, that they seem at last 
to have no enemies, but those who are, at the same time, the enemies 
of mankind ! 

Mr. Chalmers, in his zeal to past odium upon the authors of the 
measure for the registration of the slaves, proceeds, in the next para* 



13 

graph, to defame those men to whose exertions it is owing that a 
single spark of liberty of conscience — that a single security for the 
rights of the people, were preserved alive in these islands. Those 
men who were immured in dungeons, or cut down with soldiers, by 
the persecuting Stuarts, for worshipping God according to their 
consciences, Penn and Mead for example, " adopted the appearance 
of piousness in their daily discourse," and " they practised every 
sort of deception, while they openly inculcated the most specious 
habits of fair dealing !" Those men, who in vindication of the laws 
of their country, and of every thing dear to men, refused to pay 
taxes without consent of parliament; and upon whom war was 
made to compel them to a subjection, under which life was not 
worth preserving, are talked of as men who shed innocent blood, 
and brought forward to cast infamy on the friends of the Blacks! 
Those memorable proceedings, through which we arrived at the 
revolution of 1688; that revolution which freed us from a tyran- 
nical and persecuting race of princes, and placed the house of Bruns- 
wick upon the throne, are talked of as causes of national misfor- 
tune ; as full of guiltiness and crime ! Would that all other 
nations had met with similar misfortunes ! What a paradise by 
this time would the world have become ! The friends of the Blacks 
need not dread the want of success, if such arguments alone can 
be brought against them, as defame the revolution which saved 
us from despotism 3 and would stigmatize, as lavtless usurpers, 
the family which sits, by choice of the nation, upon the English 
throne. 

From the authors of the English revolution, Mr. Chalmers pro- 
ceeds, in his next paragraph, to the authors of the French revolu* 
tion ; endeavouring to represent the authors of the English revolu- 
tion, the authors of the French revolution, and the authors of the 
measure for the registration of the West India slaves, as all men of 
the same stamp. 'J'he authors of the measure for the registration of 
the slaves ; as well as those men to whom it is owing that we are 
enabled to worship God according to our consciences, and enjoy any 
one of the privileges of free men — we feel ourselves strongly inte- 
rested in defending. The authors of the French revolution we are 
desirous of leaving to the judgment of the world. All that we shall 
attempt is, not to let Mr. Chalmers attach the odium which has 



14 

fallen upon them, to a cause which has nothing to do with them or 
their proceedings. For this purpose, it is necessary to remark, that 
the conduct of the authors of the French revolution is necessarily and 
essentially distinguished into two parts. The first is, their opposi- 
tion to despotism. The second is, what they did in the course of 
that opposition. In the first, they undoubtedly agree botli with 
the authors of our revolution, and with the authors of the measure 
for the registration of the slaves. But does it follow, that the 
authors of the measure for the registration of the slaves, are the 
authors of any thing that is evil ? In the course of opposing despo- 
tism, it is indeed true that crimes may be committed ; and crimes 
may be committed in opposing theft, or robbery, or murder. But 
we are as far from esteeming opposition to despotism, in itself, a bad 
thing, as we are from esteeming opposition to theft, robbery, and 
murder, a bad thing. The crimes which have been committed in 
opposing despotism, (and crimes have been committed in opposing it, 
both in France and England) have our condemnation, as the virtues 
•which have been displayed in opposing it, have our love and admira- 
tion, in every corner of the world. 

The next paragraph, against " societies," and " clubs," and 
*' institutes," and " Puritans," is a master-piece. We entreat the 
reader to look at it again, and to say what a plight we should be 
in, had this gentleman, and those who resemble him, their will of 
us I By the men " who propagated wild doctrines," he means the 
Puritans, as appears by the scope of the discourse, and what he says 
afterwards. By the nickname of Puritans, is meant the whole body 
of persecuted dissenters. These men, he says, " have still descend- 
ants" among us. That is to say, we have still dissenters among us. 
Thank God, we have ! What Mr. Chalmers would have done with 
them, presently appears. They are " as wild," he says, '*^ in their 
theories, as busy in their habits, ^^ abominahle in their ends, as ever!" 
What a people ! Who can deny that extermination is too good for 
them?—" Wild in their theories:" Yes; they say, that in matters 
of religion, each man should think for himself; and that it is unjust 
and wicked to endeavour to hinder him.-—'' Busy in their habits :" 
Yes, they are not at all idle in doing good both to the minds and 
bodies of men. — " Abominable in their ends :" Yes, their grand ob- 
jects are, to obtain liberty of conscience, and adequate security for 



15 

the rights of every member of the community. — For these causes, 
undoubtedly, they merit the execration of all the enemies of man- 
kind 3 and the authors of the measure for the registration of the 
slaves, deserve, as here, to be classed along with them. 

*' We have societies," he says, " for effecting every purpose, /y 
any means.'" Here no exception is madej we have not a society 
which will not effect its purposes, hy any means) that is, which 
will stick at any wickedness to accomplish its ends. If this is true, 
all societies ought to be abolished. But Mr. Chalmers himself is 
kind enough to give us warning not to believe him. Notwithstand- 
ing the wickedness which he ascribes to all societies, he adds five 
great letters to his name in the title-page, which inform us, that he 
himself belongs to two societies. Does he wish us to believe that 
they are wicked 3 and that he himself is a partaker in their wicked- 
ness? If not; and if his mighty condemnation would deceive and 
mislead us in regard to those two, the probability is, that it is equally 
false and deceptions in regard to the rest. 

" One of those societies came out of late to protect the persecuted 
Protestants of France." There was wickedness ! What an execrable 
design I But the French Protestants said, they did not vi^ant any as- 
sistance. When the emperor of Morocco orders any of his subjects 
to be flayed alive, they offer him a profusion of thanks, and tell him 
how grateful they are for being honoured with so much of his 
princely regards. Take any of the most wretched of the slaves in 
the West Indies, whose back is still streaming with the whip, and 
ask, in the presence of his tormentor, if he is cruelly used, he will 
assure you, in the strongest terms, that nobody can be treated more 
humanely. Alas! the French Protestants said they did not want 
assistance I What a proof! 

This society is " a genuine picture of the ancient Puritans." We 
are very glad to hear it. For the ancient Puritans bad great energy, 
and great per severance 3 and we hope this society will display both. 
They have great advantages beyond their predecessors. They have 
only such obstacles to contend with as the pamphlets of Mr. Chal- 
mers. Their predecessors bad dungeons. If they do not produce 
much greater effects than the Puritans, tlity will have themselves to 
blame. A w.inl of the proper exertions will be the only cause. 

What Mr. Chalmers, abusing this society, calls " purpose of se- 



, 16 

dition," is a wish to promote the best interests of human society ; 
what he calls " activity of intermeddling," is vigilance and energy, 
in so great a cause ; what he calls " disingenuousness," is that clear- 
sightedness which refuses to be duped by the apostles of persecution 
and despotism : "perseverance of design," we do not, with him, 
reckon a vice, but one of the most important of all virtues. 

" Of those several societies and clubs, the most notable must be 
allowed to be the African Institution :", the most notable of those 
societies, " for effecting every purpose, by any means .'" Ever since 
the world began, the men who have endeavoured to benefit the 
great body of their fellow-creatures, have been treated in this man- 
ner by those who have an interest in oppressing their fellow- 
creatures. So long as the human mind remained without knowledge, 
and without strength, the arts of the impostors in general prevailed ; 
the friends of mankind were almost always baffled ; the small num- 
ber abused their advantages over the great number j and misery co- 
vered the surface of the globe. The human mind is slowly rising 
above this readiness to be deceived. Tn time, these arts will have 
little influence. As yet, however, much need remains for putting 
the world on its guard against them. The cry of Jacobinism, art- 
fully associated with a good cause, has of late been very successful 
in raising prejudice against it. Mr. Chalmers, who seems to be well 
acquainted with this use of the term Jacobin, endeavours, as we see, 
with more strength of will than understanding, to attach it to the 
measure of registering the West India slaves. 

The avowed object of the African Institution is to promote the 
civilization of Africa; and he allows, that this is a beneficent 
object. But he distinctly declares his belief, that this profession is 
only a deceitful lure ! that it is arrant hypocrisy ! that '' the ulti- 
mate aims of this society are involved, by a cloud, in the darkest ob- 
scurity !" " that its leaders have latent designs, which they are too 
circumspect to avow to the world !" Now what is to be thought of a 
man who throws out accusations of this sort, without adducing, or 
having to adduce, one single fact, or a shadow of a fact, as evidence 
to support them ? What is to be thought of the man who throws 
out such accusations against any portion of his fellow men, however 
unknown, and therefore how little soever benefited by known facts 
to disprove such imputations ? If this would deserve indignation. 



17 

what does he deserve who throws them out against men who are 
known, and who surely are not known for their wickedness ? who 
are allowed, we think, by those who have no partiality towards 
them, to be rather above than below the level of average virtue? — 
accusations thrown out, therefore, not only without a shadow of 
proof, but in contempt and deliance of proef, and strong proof? 
JNow, if one were to go on to talk about latent designs, is there any 
latent design, provided only it is not a good one, that might not 
find a comfortable home in a breast teeming with accusations like 
these ? 

He then reproaches them with want of success. We, too, have 
lamented their want of success j and we are well assured that we do 
not lament it more than thuy lament it themselves. Their want of 
success is their misfortune, though Mr, Chalmers would place it 
among their latent designs. Of what is capable of being done for 
civilising Africa, Mr. Chalmers gives no proof that he is in any the 
smallest degree qualified to be a judge. He has not pointed out a 
single instance of wrong or negligent conduct in the African Insti- 
tution on the coast of Africa 3 any thing done which ought not to 
have been done 3 any thing omitted which ought to have been per- 
formed. To accuse people of want of success, without showing 
that the proper measures have not been taken for securing it, is to ac- 
cuse without being able to impute a fault. The object, however, of 
Mr. Chalmers, is to insinuate, tliat to promote the civilization of 
Africa is an impossibility. One thing is certain, that he does all 
that he can to prevent it. We may, however, undertake to assure 
him, and if he knew any thing of human nature he would be ashamed 
to deny ; that man is essentially an improveable being, and, when- 
ever accidental obstructions arc removed, always improves of his 
own accord. Remove these obstructions from the Africans, and no 
fear but they will improve. 

From calumniating the measure of the registration, together with 
the authors of it, Mr. Chalmers does come at last to what may be 
regarded as. argument, or statement, in opposition to it. This is legi- 
timate hostility, and shall be respectfully treated. 

He affirms, that the abolition acts are sufficiwit to prevent the 
importation of slaves into the West Indies. In support of this affir- 
mation he makes another affirmation, that iti most of the islands the 

c 



18 

planters have not an interest in such inipoi'talioii. These two affir- 
mations have been made by other opponents of the measure of the 
registration. They have been considered at length by Mr. Stephen, 
in his Second Letter to Mr. Wilberforce, of which we gave some ac- 
count in our last number. To this able work we must refer 
for a refutation of both these afiirmalions, Tht-;re the reader will 
find it : a retutalion, in our opinion, as complete and satisfactory as 
any thing v,'hich we ever had the pleasure of perusing. Till this 
refutation is answered and overthrown, to repeat these assertions is 
not argument, is not discussion 3 it is an act of vulgar impudence, 
and nothing more. 

We believe, however, that to this imputation Mr, Chalmers is not 
liable for any thing said in the present production, which, for aught 
we know, was published as early as the Letter. 

Mr. Stephen ba-i shown, by the declarations of llie planltrs them- 
selves, that they have an interest in the importation of slaves, and 
abundant means for effecting that importation. Mr. Stephen points 
out the means : he shows that these means exist, and that they are 
quite sufficient for the end. 

If they have no interest in importing negroes, why are the abo- 
lition acts necessary? why does it require such heavy penalties to 
prc'vent the trade r To assert that there exists not an interest to im- 
port slaves into the Vv^est Indies, is to make an assertion in the -face 
of known and notorious facts, Mr. Chalmers says, " The whole 
navy of Englar.d was let loo;e upon the slave-traders." What use 
would there have been for this, if there was no interest to i.mport? 
There would not have been a single slave-ship upon the ocean. It is 
not enough to say, that these ships carried for other nations j the 
demand of other nations is su'ial! couipared with ours. But Mr. Chal- 
mers, had it suited him to give 3. proof of his affinxiation, might, 
with' the utmost ease, have produced what would have been quite 
conclusiv-e. He might have stated, from authentic sources, what is 
the price of a slave in our islands ; and then have given, from equally 
authentic sources,, the cost at which a slave could be purchased in 
Afiica, and transported to the West Indies. If we saw that the 
price of a slave in the. islands is so low, that a slave could not be im- 
ported froQT Africa, and afford at that price a profit to the irnporterj 
we should immediately be convinced that nobody had an interest in 



1^ 

importing slaves into those islands, and that no slave would be im- 
[>orted, though every prohibiting law were immediately nbolished. 
But it the price of slaves in our islands is so high^ that slaves from 
Africa can be imported and sold with a great profit (a fact which, 
we believe, will not be contested), then to say that tbei'e is not an 
interest to import slaves, and that slaves will not l^e imported, un- 
less effectual measures are taken to prevent it, is not a feat beyond 
the reach of the lovers and advocate-; of slavery; but it is a species 
of courage which, hereafter, will yield their cause but little service. 

Why does Mr. Chalmers contradict the whole body ot planters? Is 
his testimony to be taken in opposition to that of all the men who 
are best acquainted with the facts ? Did these men not oppose the 
abolition acts ? Did they not stir heaven and earth to oppose them ? 
Did they not represent them as iu the highest degree injurious to 
them ? — Why ? if they had no interest In the Importatian of slaves. 
What an uniiiippy cause, that needs such affirmations to be made in 
its support I and what an unhappy advocate, that can prevail upon 
himself to u)ake them ! 

Mr. Chalmers mentions the severity of the abolition acts as an ar- 
gument against the registration ; — with bow little judgment every 
body must percei\e, Suppose the abolition acts adequate to prevent 
every British ship and sailor from being emploi'cd in the slave-trade, 
and that is supposing much, it would h.nxUy oppose ;"iny obstacle to 
the slave-trade, and to the importation <;f slaves into the British 
islands. Other nations carry slaves, as many as they please, from 
Africa to their own settlements; and Mr. Stephen shows thrit there 
is no sort of difficulty in smuggling tlienj from these settlements 
into ours. 

It is thi-, circumstance, which Mr. Chalmers has not ventured to 
contradict, which render^ (be regi'^tralion of slaves into our West 
India islands an indi-^iensable measure; if we really choose the abo- 
lition, as far as we are concerned, to be etfectual ; and wish not to 
see our abolition acts worse than a dead letter; not in any degree 
hindering the importation of slaves, but only hindering our own 
people from having the advantage of il. 

Suppose wh.il Mr. Chalmers v.ould luve us to believe : tir.st, that 
the West India planters would not import slaves if they could ; next, 
that they could not if they would. In that cnsc, what harm can re- 

c 2 



20 

gistration do tliem? It takes away no man's slave; it rather tends to 
make the property of him more secure. Why then do they oppoae 
the registration ? wiiy are .their actions in direct contradiction to their 
words ? And which are we to believe ? -To this last question no one 
will hesitate about the proper answer. 

Mr. Chalmers goes on : — ^Thc authors of the measure for the re- 
gistration " propose, without showing very distinctly their motives, 
to establish a registration of the whole negroes of the British West 
Indies, by a minute description of their names and nature, of their 
forms and marks : so that, having obtained this record of the names 
and characteristics of the whole negroes of the king's colonies, they 
mean to liave it declared, that every negro whom an informer may 
point out as without those head-marks, shall be free, and that the 
pretended owners shall be punished by forfeiture. The zealous pro- 
jectors of this outrageous measure mean to move the parliament to 
legalize their unexampled project, and thereby to make the British 
legislature their instrument of a thousand wrongs." 

" Without showing very distinctly their motives," It is very 
disagreeable to be obliged to contradict a gentleman so often upon 
precise matters of fact. The declared object of the registration bill 
is, to prevent the clandestine importation of slaves into our "West 
India colotiies, contrary to the intent and meaning of the abolition 
acts : — this, and this alone. For our own parts, we cannot conceive 
the motives of the authors of a law to be more distinctly shown. 
What good, then, could Mr. Chalmers suppose that it would do his 
cause i to say that the motives to this measure were not distinctly 
shown ? 

'•'Registration by a minute description," he. No doubt; when 
it is necessary that the individual should be registered, it is necessary 
that all those facts should be registered which are required to dis- 
tinguish him from every other individual ; without this, a pretended 
registration would be no registration. Is there any thing in this to 
which the author objects ? If there is, why does he not speak out ? 
Does he not know that such a registration is established, — esta- 
blished in his own country with regard to every soldier of the king ? 
— " their naines and nature, their forms and marks ?" For whose 
benefit?— for that of their employer, to be sure. And it would 
equally be for the benefit of the employers of the slaves to have thera 



SI 

as minutely registered^ if there were not certain facts connected with 
the possession of those slaves, which their employers are interested 
in concealing from the public. If there is nothing which the plan- 
ters have an interest in concealing j if there is not something which, 
if known, would not be allowed, connected with the possession ot 
the slaves, there is not a possible shape in which the most exact and 
minute registration of the slaves, made without much expense, 
would not be advantageous to the owners of the slaves. 

When any thing is made an ordinance of law, it is necessary to 
sanction it with a penalty. It would be the same thing as no law, 
if it were as free to any man to transgress, as to obey it. When a 
penalty is annexed to the transgression of any ordinance of law, it is 
necessary that the penalty should be heavy enough to outweigh the 
temptation which in all ordinary cases may lead to transgression. If 
by disobeying a law a man could gain a hundred pounds, he must 
be fined not less than a hundred pounds, otherwise he receives a pre- 
mium for his disobedience. If it should be made an ordinance of 
law to register every slave in the West Indies, some penalty must be 
appointed for those who disobey the law : and that penalty must be 
sufficiently heavy to outweigh the profit which may be made by 
disobeying the law. It appeared to the projectors of the law, that 
the value of the slave by whose non-registration the law was vio- 
lated, would be an adequate penalty, and not by any means too 
much. It appeared, also, that to impose this penalty in the parti- 
cular form of declaring the slave to be free, would be attended with 
peculiar advantages; because in this manner the law would con- 
tribute greatly to ensure the exactness of its own execution. In 
all this there appears to us an unusual display of legislative wis- 
dom. 

Mr. Chalmers seems to be exceedingly enraged at the penalty : 
he cannot endure the thought of the penalty. No wonder : — if 
there were no penalty, he, and those for whose interest he writes, 
would fiel themselves very much at their ease ; their objections to 
the law Would be very inconsiderable. When people have no wish to 
do that which the law commands, it is only the penalty which is 
apt to grieve them. 

Mr. Chalmers does not say, that if the legislature thinks it Ht 
to make a law for registering the slaves, it ought not to ordain 



22 

a punishment for those who disobey the law ; he docs not say, 
that the \''\\nf of the sl.ivc is a hne too liigh for such disobedi. 
ence. 

Leaving fill this, he only shows his violent dc'tesL^tion of the pe- 
nalty : vvhich proves uoihing but a violent disinclination to perform 
the act which the intended law would enjoin. To all those who 
obey, the penalty is as nolliing. 

He calls it an '^•' o?^/;r/^fo//.f measure :" — Outrageous^ for what.? 
Is it outrageous on acconnt of the act to he pcrf(jr?utd? — is it out- 
rageous to require such an net to he performed in regard to the 
slaves, as is performed in regard to the P.ritish soldier ? as is 
performed, in great measure,, with regard to every British sub- 
iect of tlie military sex and age under-^the miliiia laws? asunder 
a good government it would be good to have performed with 
regard to every individual in the community r Is this outra- 
geous ? 

Or is the measure outrageous, \u the opinion of Mr, Chalmers, 
on account of the penalty ? Why does the gentleman not explain 
himself r F.very merebani u !:io imports certain kinds of goods, 
and dfies not enter them at the custoiTi-house, foi feits the goods 
Is it a less erime^ in his venerable opinion, to smuggle a slave than 
to sniiiggle an Indian shawl ? Is that which is not more than a pro- 
per forfeit in the case of the shawl, outrageous in the case of the 
human being ? Oil brave lovers of slavery i 

" An nnexa?nplecl project !' Putting llie slaves on the level on 
which Mr. Chalmers and his en:iployers would have them put, that 
of mere goods, is it unexampled, when there is any temptation to 
fraud, to have an account taken of people's goods .' Are not the 
goods of the brewer, of the maltster, of the manufacturer, of every 
species of excisable commodity, not merely registered, but subject 
to the perpetual inspection of the ofHcers of revenue t Is a fraud 
upon the revenue a more heinous transgrf ssion than a fraud upon the 
liberty of a human being r 

'* A thousand wrongs!" — JFrongs to the slave-owners, by pro- 
hibiting the importation of slaves, already forbidden by law ! In 
no other respect can the registration of their slaves be other than 
beneficial to them ! " A thousand wrongs" in obeying the law ! 
It follows that they have a thousand advantages in violating it. So 



has the smuggler in Europe ; and for that reason, the laws for the 
registration and inspection of his goods are enacted — to prevent 
those undue advantages. 

Mr. Ch"lmers, quitting the pretence that there is no need for the 
r^istration as a means for preventing the importation of slayesj 
proceeds to another topic, the want of right on the part of the Bri- 
tish parliament to legislate for the We.?t India colonies. ■'' The 
leading members of the African Institution/' he says, " propose 
th;it the parliament should legislate for the British colonists in 
their domestic affairs, without having an adequate causey without, 
adopting the constitutional mode of the king's recommendation 
to their several assemblies, the projectors go the full length of 
moving the parliament to deprive the British colonists of their free 
governments." 

Upon this topic we should imagine Mr, Chalmers must have been 
very much puzzled indeed. For an apostle of the " divine right," 
and of " passive obedience and non-resistance," this was a ground 
as dangerous as any on which he could possibly tread. Something 
was to be given, up ; either his principles or his argument. We 
shall see bow Mr. Chalmers manages the matter. '' The British 
govprnraent has no right to legislate for the colonies." If so, the 
resistarce of the Americans was not a crime : as people, like INIr. 
Chalmers, have been so fond of calling it. Mr. Chalmers, how- 
ever, endeavours to save himself by putting in the clause '^without 
having an adequate cause." Now we desire iiim to explain himself 
a little: he must not think to shuffle oti" behind an equivocating 
expression. Doe« he mean to say, that, when the British legislature 
/las an adequate cause, it may leg'slate for the colonies ? Or does he 
mean to say, that whatever cause it may liave, it never can have a 
right to legislate lor tlie colonics ? Why does he mince and mutter ? 
why not .'peak out? If he means the (irst thing, all the question is 
about iIk; canse ; if he niearis the las!, ii was beside (he [)iupose for 
him so much as to mention the cause. 

Let us examine the last supposilicu fuit. Let us suppose, that 
how great soever I he cause, slill it is l\Ir. Chalmers's doctrine, that 
tlie British legislature is bound not to interfere. This doctrine has 
been so fully refuted by Mr. Stephen, and we have already given so 
full an account of hi.s argument, that we think it unnecessary to say 



24 

much more upon the subject. We shall be content with a single 
observation. The doctrine involves this monstrous consequence : — 
that the people in the colonies are the subjects of the British legis- 
lature—that the British legislature is bound, as all legislatures are 
bound, to preserve one portion of its subjects from doing injury to 
another portion of its subjects — that, notwithstanding this, a small 
number of its subjects in the West Indies may do injury to the great 
number of its subjects there, to any excess however enormous ; and 
the British legislature must sit still, and look on, without daring to 
make a law to prevent it ! — The people in the West Indies are in 
that case without law ! 

If this hideous proposition be untenable, we come then to the 
question of the occasion, or cause. For we are abundantly ready 
to allow to Mr. Chalmers, or to any body else, that the British le- 
gislature ought not to make laws for its subjects in the West Indies, 
and, we add, for any other portion of its subjects, without ade- 
quate cause. — Now, is there, or is there not, adequate cause for 
the British legislature to make a law for the registration of (he 
slaves ? 

The argument, we think, may be stated very shortly j and in a 
form which amounts to demonstration. 

The British legislature has made a law to prohibit the importation 
of slaves into the British West India islands. The voice of humanity, 
and the vindication of its own legislative authority impose the 
strongest obligation upon the parliament to see that its law is not 
violated, and the intention of it defeated. Mr. Stephen has most 
fully proved, that no security can be taken sufficient to prevent the 
violation of that law, and the frustration of its object, except the 
registration of the slaves; or at least none can be taken so good, as 
the registration. The case then, to the British legislature, is a case 
not of choice, but necessity. Unless the registration, or something 
equivalent, is effected, the British legislature must behold its le- 
gislative will defeated j its solemn enactments disobeyed by its own 
subjects J and remain without a remedy ! Is this the spectacle 
which Mr. Chalmers wishes the British legislature to present to the 
world ? 

Mr. Chalmers says. Why not ask the colonists to make a regis- 
tration law for themselves ? We ask^ Why have the colonists noi^ 



25 

made such a law of their own accord ? Why, instead of showing 
any inclination for the making of such a law, even after the neces- 
sity for it was displayed to the British parliament, have they made 
every possible exertion to prevent the making of such a law ? The 
British legislature sees, as all the world sees, that nothing can be 
more contrary to the will of the colonists than to make such a law 3 
and that they never will make it, unless by compulsion. If the 
British legislature mean to have such a law, it must either make 
such a law itself, or it must co/upel the colonists to make it. Now, 
with regard to the colonists, we desire to know where is the diiFer- 
ence, between taking a law from the British legislature, and making 
it, through compulsion, under its immediate dictation ? The dif- 
ference to the British legislature between making the law itself, and 
giving it to the colonists to make, is this — that if it make the law 
itself, every thing will be done which can be done to make it answer 
its end : if it gives it to the colonists to make, every thing will ba 
done which dares be done to make it incapable of answering its 
end. 

The colonists will excuse us if we say again, that, on the subject 
of the slaves, we cannot trust them. Mr. Stephen has said much 
upon this subject ; and we too have said something ; to which we 
must refer the reader. We treat them not unfairly. We treat them 
no otherwise than the British constitution, and all sound political 
theory, say that all men ought to be treated — that wherever there is 
power there is a tendency to abuse it ; wherever there is power 
there ought to be checks ; that no men ought to be judges in their 
own cause ; that no men ought to have the power of making laws to 
sanction their own wrongs, or to promote their own interests, at the 
expense of another portion of their fellow-creatures. If they dis- 
pute any of these doctrines, we shall be glad to hear what they have 
to produce against them. 

It is amusing to find a " passive-obedience" man, talking of the 
discontent of a people against the measures of their government, and 
even their resistance, not indeed with approbation expressed in dis- 
tinct propositions ; no ! that would make the matter too glaring ; 
but without a syllable of disapprobation j with an air of approba- 
tion ; with such an account of the causes of the resistance, as indi- 
cates that it is a resistance, amply deserved. " They will think," says 



£6 

he— the people of the colonies " will thinks" if they are obliged to 
register their slaves, '' that nothing is left to a free people worth living 
for." Excellent i Earnestly do we desire that no people on earth 
had any thing more taken away of "the things worth living for!" 
that we^ for example^ of these happy islands, had nothing to com- 
plain of but the hardship of being obliged to register the animated 
part of our property^ or indeed every part and parcel of it. To how 
great a degree is it now registered under the taxation laws ? And 
to how much greater a degree was it registered under the properly- 
tax ? Hov\' great an advantage it is for the most valuable sort of 
property — 'land, to he registered, al! the world allows. Are not wills 
registered ; and, by consequence, all the property to which they 
relate ? Who knows not that a good system of registration, ap- 
plied as oaensively as possible, to both persons and things, 
would, under a good government; increase prodigiously the secu- 
rity both of person and property ; would strengthen exceedingly 
the hands both of justice and police; and that, in fact, you can 
have neither a good police, nor a good administration of justice, 
without it ? 

If we take this as a specimen of the "passive-obedience" men, 
w@ shad understand their rule of ''■ non-resistance." Resistance 
to government is most intensely wicked when the grievance com- 
plained of arises from tliose abuses and defects by which they profit. 
But whenever government proposes lo make a reform, however 
admirable, how much soever calculated to increase the benefits 
derivable from government, if that reform is to cut off any undue 
source of profit which they wish to enjoy ; oh! then, nothing but 
resistance can occur to any man's thoughts; " nothing is then left 
which to a free people is worth living for !" " This projected 
measure," writing in a proper book the name and description of 
every slave, ''' is fifty times more vexatious tlian the stamp act 
of notorious memory ; twenty times more incentive than it of 
general discontent ; and a dozen limes more generative than it of 
popular commotion." If this be true, there must be some vast 
source of profit open to the cokinists v^dien the slaves are not 
registered, which will be shut when they are : for surely the act 
of registration, the bare giving of the name and description of a 
man's slaves, to be entered in a book, cannQt be regarded as at 



27 

ail " vexaiicus," as at all '•'■ incentive of dis-content," or " gene- 
rative of popular commotion," unless people are to a very singular 
degree disposed tor discontent and commotion. Now it is strongly 
suspected that the colonists have a source of profit of such a descrip- 
tion : aamely, in the illegal importation of slaves. It is this source 
of profit, and this alone, which can account' for the furious lai:iguage 
of the colonists arid their hired (for they have no other) advocates, 
against the raeasnre of registration. This, however, the colonists 
dtny. They affirm that they have not that source of profit. The 
reason for affirming and denying, after such a fashion, is suffici- 
ently visible. Rut in that case their outcry is altogether unreason- 
able and Tb^uird. It is an efiert without a canr^e. The conrlnsioii 
is obvious. 

We challenge them to show in what manner the giving the 
name and description of his slave needs to " vex ' any man, un- 
less he has obtained him by unlawful means : on what account it 
can excite his "discontent," unless by rendering it impossible for 
him to concp.^1 transactions which the law condemns : in what 
way it has a tendency to excite " commotion" among the colonists, 
except as the gallows has a tendency to excite commotion among 
thieves. 

Tlie registration act ivill produce all these horrid effect,s — in what 
\^-ay r In the following, if we believe Mr. Chalmers : " by impress- 
ing upon the minds of an irritated people that the real object of such 
measures must neces.sarily be to make the free slaves, and the slaves 
free." He says, that such will be (he impression upon the minds of 
an irritated people. And truly they must be irritated indeed, for 
they must be out of their .senses ! 

What is there in the necessity of giving, to be inserted in a book, 
the name and description of his slave, that should, according to the 
assertion of Mr. Chalmers, jnake any free ninn a slave ? We desire 
to know this. We ask Mr. Chalmers, why he niukes assntions des- 
titute of proof? why be ventures to treat the public with ;;uc!i in- 
dignity ? We call upon him for his proof. y\nd we tell hiui, that 
all the infamy which can lie upon a man, for producing as^ertions 
which he is unaljle to prove, will rest upon him, it' he fiilsin answer- 
in ■: the challenge. 



28 

If the necessity of registering that particular part of his pro- 
perty, which consists of his fellow creatures, has not the smallest 
tendency to make any free man a slave j so has it not the smallest 
tendency to make any lawful slave free.- Every slave which a man 
possesses lawfully, remains his property after registration as much 
as before ; remains, and with additional securities. It will, after 
registration, be much more easy to recover the slave if he is lost, 
either by having been stolen, or by running away. An additional 
value is therefore communicated by registration to every slave that 
is lawfully possessed. It' any slave is unlawfully possessed, him 
indeed the act of registration has a tendency to set free. When 
Mr. Chalmers, then, and his fellows talk as if the registration would 
set free the greater part of the slaves, what is it that they declare ? 
Nothing less than this, that the greater part of the slaves are 
unlawfully possessed ! It is in vain they labour to disguise the 
confession. What we always come round to ; what shines through 
every subterfuge is, their terror that illegal acquisition should be 
stopt. But, undoubtedly, illegal acquisition ought to be stopt. 
And whatever means are necessary to prevent the existence of it 
ought no longer to be deferred. The mischief in the mean time 
is vast. Rarely has a great total of mischief been removed by 
means so very easy ; means capable of producing so little colla- 
teral inconvenience. There is no law which can possibly be ex- 
ecuted without some inconvenience ; for it always produces some 
cost and some trouble. But seldom does it happen in legislation, 
that so much good can be attained with so little of this species of evil, 
as is to be attained by preventing the clandestine importation of 
negroes into the British West Indies, by a law for the registration 
of slaves. 

" To pave the way for such innovations." Oyes; call it inno- 
vation ! That is a temptation, which it was not to be expected that 
you could resist. It is remarkable, however, that an imputation, 
the unmeaningness of which has been so very often placed iu the 
most glaring light; the unmeaningness of which is indeed so very 
obvious in itself, is not prevented by very shame ; the disgrace of 
an igndrance which betrays such unac<^uainfance with the useful 
knowledge of the a?;e. 



29 

Why, every improvement, without one exception, from the be- 
ginning of time to this present hour, is innovation. The culture 
of corn is innovation j the building of houses is innovation 3 the 
British constitution is innovation j the reformation of Luther was 
an innovation; Christianity itself a prodigious innovation. Are all 
these things bad, because innovations ? If things are not bad be- 
cause innovations, why take the trouble of calling the registration 
of the slaves an innovation ? We know it is an innovation, because 
it did not exist before. That is the very reason why a law is wanted, 
namely, to make it exist ; because the existence of it, the innova- 
tion, if so you please to call it, will be a source of good. 

The same thing which we have seen important to be observed in 
regard to the word Jacobin, is to be observed in regard to the word 
innovation. By a minute induction of the cases in which it is used 
as an imputation, it will be seen, that it is almost always employed~ 
against something which is goodj something, the tendency of which 
is not to injure, but to benefit mankind 3 something, most com- 
monly, to prevent the persons who employ it from benefiting them- 
selves at the expense of the community to which tht-y belong. This 
happens by a sort of necessity ; because if the measure which you 
oppose is really a bad measure, that is, would produce evil, show 
the evil, and your object is gained ; there is no use of crying innova' 
tion. But if a measure really good is proposed ; if it be quite out of 
your power to show any evil that it produces, or any evil which is 
not greatly overbalanced by the good; then the cry oi' hmovation, if 
addressed to ignorant people, may stand you in good stead ; may 
serve to prevent a beneficent change 3 may serve to postpone a great 
improvement. 

M*-. Chalmers next proceeds to the old story. All that the friends 
of the abolition have said in regard to the cruel treatment bestowed 
upon the slaves, is horrid calumny. The imagination can hardly 
picture a finer scene of beneficence than is displayed in the West 
Indies towards the blacks. " The records of their scholastic esta- 
blishments are produced, for showing clearly that no distinction is 
made in their schools, between white children and coloured. The 
same documents equally demonstr.iie with full conviction, that co- 
loured poor, the aged, and the infirm, receive the same protection as 
the white poor, and partake of the same relief. So app.srcnt is it. 



30 

that the colonial institutions in those respects, if we might use the 
poet's language, 

' Grasp the whole world of reason, life, and sense. 
In one close system of benevolence." ' 

Thiii topic we may with safety leave to those wlio are better ac- 
quainted with the facts : to Mr. Slephen, for example^ who has pro- 
mised u« a work, " to demonstrate, upon premises not to be disputed, 
that the colonial slaves are the most helpless and the most injured of 
mankind J that their wrongs and miseries are unparalleled; that 
upon earth there never was a species of bondage so degrading, odi- 
ous, and severe."'^ What will Mr. Chaln)ers say to this; when the 
pledge is redeemed, and this great aift is bestowed upon humanity? 

We leave this question, not only because it is too wide for our 
present limits 3 but because it is foreign to the present dispute. If 
the good treatment of the slaves be an argument against any thing, 
it is an argument against the abolition acts; because, if the negroes 
are so happy in the West Indies^ (here can be no good reason for 
preventing their being cairied to the West Indies. But, if there be 
good reason for a law to prevent their being carried to the West In- 
dies, it never can be an argument against the means which are ne- 
cessary for carrying that law into execution. Registration is one of 
the means necessary for carrying the abolition acts into effect. And 
nothing is a legitimate argument against it, except showing, either 
that it is ill adapted to the end ; or that it would produce evil of an- 
other sort too great for the good to be obtained. Ihe opponents of 
the measure show neither. It is not in their power. They have 
nothing therefore to offer against it, which is not irrelevant, sophis- 
tical, and deceptions. The friends of the measure shov.-, that it is 
admirably adapted to the end; and produces little or no evil to 
compensate the great good which it will serve to attain. It is im- 
possible that the argument in favour of any practical proceeding can 
be more complete. 

We must produce the follov^lng passage, which is as neat a sample 
as we ever beheld. 

* See tlie conclusion of the article in our last Number c.n the Letter of Mr. Ste- 
phen. 



31 

" In this uge ot zeal, whicli clrovvus chariLy and skill, Uiose pro- 
jectors ot" novelty propose a new administration of justice ; because 
a negro^ claiming to be free, cannot hope for success, when freedom 
is the end : but, whose justice is it, that is thus suspected ? It is the 
king"s justice, in his provincial districts of the western world, which 
cannot be trusted in the claims of freedom. In those countries, as 
in England, the king is the fonntain of justice: he appoints the 
judges ; he holds the courts ; his precepts call every party, and every 
jur)nian into court; and the king it is, who executes judgment in 
righteousness. The justice, which is thus distrusted, is a funda- 
mental principle, however, of the British empire. We thus perceive, 
then, from high authority, that if the Duke of Gloucester, the pa- 
tron and president of the Africaii Institution, and the members 
thereof, go within such jurisdictions, they are bound to submit to 
the law and justice of the Bahama government, if they should go 
within its limits : yet, say the same persons, a negro slave ought 
not to submit his claim of freedom to the law and justice of that 
government. There is even a still iiigher authority, than Lord 
Mansfield, which .fequlres the African Institution to submit (o the 
established goxernwcnt, Jhr the Lord's sake : for, both St. Peter and 
St. Paul make government to be the institution of God, by command- 
ing it to be obeyed, for the sake of God. 

" But, what say the calumniated Christiii-ns o.*^ the Bahama govern- 
ment to this unscriptural distrust of the king's laws there, when a 
negro claims his freedom r 1st. They produce an act of their as- 
sembly, of some years standing, for facilitating the claim of such a 
negro. 2d!y. They produce the affidavits of the chief justice, of the 
second judge, and of others, wdio have all been present at the trials 
of such claims of freedom ; and v/ho swear, that the juries, and bye- 
standers, generally lean in favour of freedom : so true i:, it, tliat cviJ- 
niinded must the man be, who does not favour the weak against the 
strong, who dees not feel for tlie slave, when contending for justice 
with his njHSler. 

*• There is another bnmfh of the same topic of charge against the 
colonists, which demands some observation. The same zealots, who 
thus distrust the ordinance of God, pretend, in their strange project, 
to protect the several rights ot infatils, ot lunatics, and of married 
women 3 as if the law of the Bahama-., and indeed of every colony. 



32 

did not sufficiently protect the rights of such persons : what is this 
but disputing with the lord chief justice of England, whether the 
law and legislative government of every dominion does or does not, 
affect all persons and property within the limits thereof!" 

Those "projectors of novelty" say, that "^a negro, claiming to 
be free, cannot hope for success when freedom is the end." And 
this being the case, they desire that the administration of justice 
may be amended in this respect; or, as Mr. Chalmers is j)leased to 
express it, " propose a new administration of justice." Now, does 
Mr. Chalmers prove, that a free negro, unjustly made a slave, and 
suing for his freedom, has a chance for success? Oh, no; he only 
gives us certain affidavits, that the people of the West Indies have 
a great leaning in favour of liberty ! What tii.en does he object 
against the demand of a remedy for this evil ? Why he tells us, that 
this total want of all chance of success to a negro claiming his just 
right, and that a right of such unspeakable importance as his liberty, 
is '•' t/ie k'mg's justice !" Nor is this all : when he has told us, that 
this horrid injustice is " i/ie k'wgs justice," he proceeds to tell us, 
that it is impious in the African Institution to seek a remedy against 
it! that there is a ''higher authority than Lord Mansfield," meanii5g 
the authority of religion, " which requires them to submit to it 
for the Lord's sake." People are to abstain from seeking a remedy 
to the poor negroes deprived of their dearest right — to abstain from 
this, for the Lord's sake! What a dreadful monster is the religion 
of Mr. Chalmers ! What a being it is that he worships ! A Moloch ! 
a worse than Moloch, who only desired his votaries to pass their 
children through the fire to his grim idol. The Being to whom 
our devotions, we trust, shall ever be otfered up, is not a Being who 
will forbid us to endeavour to procure the means to the unhappy 
negroes of obtaining their right, when that right is so great a bless- 
ing as their freedom 5 though the " hiiigs justice" of every country 
upon earth should tend to deprive them of it. Such never shall be 
our justice ! Such is not the justice of the God whom we adore ! 

It is curious to observe, that Mr. Chalmers calls this denial of 
redress to a negro deprived of his rights, " the ordinance of God." 
We do not cry out. Blasphemy, upon this. No : we recognize that 
Mr. Chalmers worships a different being from us, The idea is ut- 



33 

terly irreconcileable with that of the Being whom we worship. As 
soon would any one think of reconciling the ideas of light and dark- 
ness, heat and cold, or any the most contradictory which the mind 
ever conceived. 

We have here an admirable specimen of the jure divino argument, 
for the support and preservation of all the mischief which power has 
perpetrated, or is capable of perpetrating, upon the face of the earth. 
All such mischief is to be reverenced, and kept undiminished, "for 
the Lord's sake " When our ancestors were immured in dungeons, 
stripped of their substance, and dragged to the stake for conscience' 
sake J all this cruel usage was " the ordinance of God ;" and these 
impious, it seems, but most conscientious, most meritorious men, 
were in their blindness and guiltiness, not disobeying man, but God ! 

It is a great advantage when an author appears who exhibits a 
mischievous doctrine in all its deformity. Many are the writers, 
and many ihc speakt-rs, who, at the present time, make use of the 
very sanie principles, of which Mr. Chalmers here avails himself, for 
defeating the project of registration. But they labour, as much as 
they can, to hide and disguise th(-! disgusting parts. They divert the 
thoughts of the reader, if possible, into another channel ; turn away 
his eyes from the horrid consequences at which he may be apt to re- 
volt. They are cunning : they have address. Mr. Chalmers is more 
honest. He is plain and sincere. He firmly believes in the abomi- 
nable principlrs which he inculcates. 

Mr. Chalmt-rs returns once more to the assertion, that the aboli- 
tion acts produce the effects for which they were intended ; and that 
there is no clandestine importation. We shall not repeat what has 
been said upon this head, either very shortly by ourselves, or very 
fully and convincingly by Mr. Stephen. To us one argument ap- 
pears fully sufficient : the actions of the colonists are in contradic- 
tion to their words. Why make an outcry against the registration, 
if it can do you no harm } And what harm can it possibly do to you, 
except in preventing the profit of illicit importation ? 

" We have seen above," says Mr. Chalmers, '* how much the pro- 
jected registry of the colonial negroes would change manners, alter 
habits, and overthrow usages and privileges, which have existed time 
out of raind, and have grown sacred from their salutarinesi, through- 

D 



out many a year of enjoyment." What he means by '^ seeing above," 
we know not : we see not a word upon the subjectj in any previous 
part of the discourse. If by the habits, usages, and privileges, here 
spoken of, he means the habits, usages, and privileges, of importing 
slaves, and using them with every species of cruelty the master choose; 
the authors of the measure of registration are so far from denying that 
it IS their desire to put an end to such habits, usages, and privileges, 
that they make it their proclamation and boast, " Which have ex- 
isted," says Mr. Chalmers, " time out of mind." By how much 
the longer, by so much the worse. The abolition, in that case, 
ought to have taken place long ago. That a change ought to have 
taken place long ago, is a monstrous reason to urge, why it should 
never take place at all. 

If Mr. Chalmers can point out any other usages, habits, and privi- 
leges, which the registration affects, why does he not show them ? 
We ask him what they are? But we get no answer. The con- 
clusion is. They do not exist. In fact, they do not exist. What 
other habit, usage, or privilege, can the mere giving in evidence of a 
small number of facts, have any tendency to alter ? The pretence is 
ridiculous, 

" Sacred from their salutariness, through many a year of enjoy- 
ment." The habit, usage, and privilege, of importing negroes to 
make them slaves, and of using them after the manner in which it is 
proved to the world that they were used, " become sacred from 
their salutariness !" '• Salutary," to whom ? To the poor negroes ? 
If salutary, that is profitable — to the masters of the negroes, the 
friends of human kind do not question There is no injustice, no 
oppression, which in this sense is vot salutary. It is all perpetrated 
to please somebody. But ihe object of all good men is to destroy a 
salutariness of this nature. The end of all good institutions, and all 
good laws, is to prevent one sort of men from having habits, usages, 
and privileges, that are injurious to others. 

It is curious to see the versatility of the genius of Mr. Chalmers, 
From doctrines of high despotism, he proceeds immediately to 
those of high republicanism. Every sort of principle is good for the 
defence of West Indian slavery. Hear him. 

" It may be now worth while to enter into a brief inquiry, with 



55 

regard to the colonial constltutiom, which are thus endangered by 
such innovations. (1.) One of the fundamental principles of the co- 
lonial, as well as the national constitution^ is, that the people were 
not made for the rulers, but the rulers for the people : a principle 
this, which was acted on, when the revolution/of l6S8 was accom- 
plished, and was subsequently interwoven into the Act of Settle- 
ment. (2.) English emigrants, as they carry the jurisprudence of 
their country with them, also carry with them the same fundamen- 
tal principle, as a part of the common law 5 which accommodates 
itself to English colonists, wheresoever they may settle on the desart 
coasts of the ocean : hence it is, that some of the ablest jurists, which 
have been bred in a country fruitful in great lawyers, have been of 
opinion, that taxes cannot be levied on such English settlers, with- 
out some consent, which is a term very congenial to the constitution. 
(3.) It is from the same principles, that every English colony is en- 
titled to 3. free go-vernment, whereof consent is an essential ingredient; 
that the colonial constitutions were formed in the best times of our 
political history, when deference and authority were due, and yielded 
to the consentient judgment , and habitual practice, of the ablest law- 
yers and statesmen of those times. (4.) From those constitutional 
principles originated the colonial Assemblies, with the national ap- 
probation, by a thousand acts : the same hallowed source this, 
whence originated the Parliament, in a much earlier period, indeed. 
(5.) The truth, and fitness, of the intimations above, would still more 
distinctly appear, if we might run a parallel between the two legis- 
lative bodies, which are so analogous, as the Parliament, and Assem- 
bly, in their origin, and their ends," 

The principles of despotism, if men would, at his bidding, admit 
them, would, we have seen, suffice to his end. The principles of 
republicanism totally fail him. 

" The people were not made for the rulers 5 but the rulers for the 
people." We desire nothing more than accurate reasoning upon this 
principle, to be led by Mr. Chalmers whithersoever he pleases. Let 
us see. In the West Indies, the slave- masters may with great jus- 
tice be considered as the rulers : the negroes as the people. " The 
negroes were not made for the sake of the slave-masters, but the 
slave-masters for the negroes." Does Mr. Chalmers adopt the con- 
clusion ? 



^6 

Again, the whole of the people in the West Indies, both blacks 
and whites, both subject many and ruling few, are the subjects of 
the British government ; and that government, if made for its sub- 
jects, is made for all portions and classes of them alike, the black 
portion as well as the white; the portion in that worst state of ser- 
vitude called slavery, as well as the portion in that other state of ser- 
vitude called hired service : and its great business, the great end for 
which it was made, is, to take care that no one portion or class of 
these subjects does injury to another; that no injury, for example, 
in the West Indies, is done by the white population to the black. 
Does Mr. Chalmers mean to tell us, that the British parliament owes 
no duties to the black part of the population, the welfare of 
which is confided to its care ? To us it appears, that it owes 
the very same sort of duties to every black man, which it owes 
to every white man. When Mr. Chalmers applies the principle, 
that " rulers are made for the people," to the British Government 
and the people in the West Indies, he leaves the black people 
out of the account ! The rulers, in this case, he would have to 
be made for the white people alone — not at all for the black. 
No body should be made for them ! they, poor wretches, for every 
body ? 

Why seek to puzzle the qut-stion with the doctrine about con- 
sent to pay taxes .' The registration of the slaves is not taxation. 
But this question, in respect to the West Indies, is rather more com- 
plicated than Mr. Chalmers, and the class to v/hich he belongs ap- 
pear to understand. If consent to the imposition of burthens is a ne 
cessary security, to prevent the burthens from becoming undue, why 
does Mr. Chalmers not demand that the blacks should have this se- 
curity ? — that they too should have their power of consent ? If he 
will not allow the blacks to have any consent, let him not be angry 
if the British parliament insists upon conseniing for them. Are the 
gentlemen of the West Indies to insist, because they ought not to 
be taxed without their consent, that no security whatsoever should be 
taken for good usage to the blacks ? — that the blacks should be left 
totally without protection, to be treated by them well or ill, justly 
or unjustly, cruelly or humanely, just as they please ? Thert^ is no 
pi'inciple of the British constitution by which this sort of claim is 



37 

sanctioned. Every virtuous feeling of the human breast rises up in 
reb Uion against it. Consent indeed ! The gentlemen of the West 
Indies are far better represented in the British pailiament than nine- 
tenths of the British people ! 

It is curious to observe with what couiposure this " divine right" 
man speaks of rebellion as the consequence of an act of the British 
legislature to register the slaves, which he calls an " essay of 
coercion." 

*' Beyond such an essay of coercion, the imprudence of statesmen 
could not easily go : if any outrage were ofFert-d, at the same lime, 
to the persons, the principles, the property of the colonists, irrita- 
tion and estrangement might be the effects. If an attempt were, 
meanwhile, made on the privileges of the x'Vssemblies, and their uti- 
lity and their existence were threatened with danger, civil contest 
might ensue, and provoked resistance might be the sad result. 
When coercion, during past times, was exercised by the French 
king, on the parliaments of France, we all know what consequences 
ensued. During the civil conflicts which followed, in the continental 
colonies, from the stamp act, though it was repealed, the parliamt:nt 
deprived the province of Massachusets-b:^y of its legislative power. 
Whatj then, was the result ? It was repealed by the same authority 
in 177 s .' 'as it had been found,' saith the statute, * to create 
great uneasiness in the minds of the inhabitants of the sa-d pro- 
vince, and had occasioned jealousies and apprehensions of danger 
to the liberties and rights in several other of the colonies.' How 
much more wise had it been not to offer coercion to a sovereign 
court, which created such apprehensions in the other colonies and 
which the repeal of 17/8 did not by any means allay ' The Rubicon 
was passed, and the sword of civil war was now stained with kindred 
blood. From Milton, indeed, we might know, that to be warned, 
and taught, by experience, what before us lies, in daily life, is the 
prhne wisdom." 

Now only think of the wisdom of this kind of talk ; when the 
fact is, that if the British government were to withdraw its protec- 
tion from these untractable gentlemen for twelve months, the blacks 
would exterminate every man of them. They themsi'lves could re- 
tain no power over the blacks : they do not j)retend tliat they could ; 



38 

it is the British government which gives it to them. It follows that 
the British government is responsible, in the sight of God and man, 
for the use which it permits to be made of that power. Quijacit 
per alium facit per se 3 — what is done by another, with the power 
given by the British government, is, in the eye of reason, done by 
the British government. If it gives to the colonists the whole of 
their power over the blacks, i( is itself guilty of all the cruelty which 
they commit. Is it not bound, therefore, to take every security 
which it deems expedient, to prevent the power which it gives over 
the negroes in the West Indies from being abused ? Of these secu- 
rities, one, and in our opinion a highly important one, is the mea- 
sure of registration. 

Mr. Chalmers proceeds next to the redoubtable argument summed 
up in the sound of the ^ord. property . We say, the sound, because 
we no sooner advert to the substance, than the illusion which it la- 
bours to raise immediately vanishes. 

Mr. Chalmers, however, says, " Every one was impressed with 
the constitutional principle, that private property cannot be sacri- 
ficed to any idol." The word idol, when used as in this passage, de- 
notes some object w hich foolishly receives a much greater portion of 
regard than it is worth : the object in this case is humanity and jus- 
tice. That is the idol, — that is the object to which we foolishly 
attach an undue portion of regard. Now we should think, and we 
do presume justly, that if we followed, in this case, the advice of the 
colonial gentlemen, we should be making an idol of property, and 
one of the most cruel idols that ever scourged the human race. What 
is the end of property } What is the purpose for the sake of which 
it is made to exist } The answer is. Happiness! Property is found to 
be necessary to the well-being of human creatures. If the contrary 
had been the case ; if property had been injurious to the well-being 
of human creatures, it never ought to have had an existence; and, 
in fact, never would. This being the case, whatever distribution of 
the things useful to man is most conducive to the happiness of man 
— that is the distribution which best deserves to be converted into 
property. In fact, if the enil be regarded; and if it is conduciveness 
(O happiiies-. that wakes property ; what is not conducive to happi- 
ness, is, ill the true sense uf the word, not property; it is subver- 



S9 

sive of the very end of property j it is usurpation ; and ought not to 
exist. 

View the wretched sophism, made out oF the sound, rejecting the 
substance, in another light. Property, as all the world know, admits 
of degrees. Fropert)', in one case, implies a greater 5 in another, a 
less number of powers. The lawj'ers have invented names for this 
diversity. They have their dominium plenum , and domi?iium minus 
plenum; and this minor plenitude has avast number of degrees. 
Thus, in regard to many articles of inanimate property, a hat, for 
example, or a coat, a man's power is almost unlimited; he may use 
them, or abuse them; he may cut them into a thousand pieces, or 
he may burn them in the fire. Over his house in the strt-et he has 
not the same number of powers. If he attempt to burn it, he will 
be most severely punished. Over his cattle, his powers are still more 
limited ; not only may he not burn them, he must not use them 
with cruelty, otherwise he will be punished. Neither is there any 
reason, whatsoever, if the legislature think the existing laws insuffi- 
cient to prevent cruelty to animals, why they mny not make other 
laws more completely to answer that end ; and still further to re- 
strict the powers of the owner. If ownership with regard to irra- 
tional animals is thus restricted, for the sake of preventing cruelty to 
those animals; surely it is more incumbent that ownership with re- 
gard to human beings should be restricted, to prevent cruelty with 
regard to them. It is surely incumbent, that with regard to them, 
ownership should be so restricted, as not to admit of cruelty. To 
this end, we say, that the registration of the slaves in the West In- 
dies is absolutely necessary. And this great object, the British h gis- 
lature, we trust, will not suffer to be defeated, by a quibble on the 
word property ! 

So much for the arguments of Mr. Chalmers. The rest of the 
publication consists of a Report of a Ommittee of the Bithama As- 
sembly, appointed to report upon the measure of the registration ; 
and certain documents annexed in support of the allegations ot the 
Keport. As far as the present question is concerned, the arguments 
in the Report coincide with the ark^uments of Mr. Chalnieis On 
our part, therefore, it wouM be little better than repetition to answer 
them. It !•>, however, an able produciion ; and shows well thai the 
colonists have no lack of powers to give a strong colouring 10 any 



cause 5 a very fair one to the cause they like, a very foul one to the 
opposite. 

A great part, however, of the matter of this Report, we consider 
as cleaily foreign to the point at issue. A great part of the Report 
is exhausted in complaining of certain inconveniences imputed to 
some of the proposed modes of carrying the registration into effect. 
But, if there are any of the proposed modes, which could be replaced 
with better modes, we have not heard that there would be any op- 
position in any quarter to the adoption of these modes. The desire 
is, to get the best modes. But the argument of the colonists is very 
unworthy of that mental ability which the drawing of the Report 
abundantly testifies. Certain modes of executing a particular mea 
sure, they say, are bad ; therefore, the nieasure itself is bad. The 
conclusion is evidently ridiculous. If thi y would show good faith, 
and not, under cover of objecting to the mode, endeavour to decry 
the essence 5 but meet the friends of the negroes in an honest desire 
to render the modes of carrying the measure into effect, as little one- 
rous as possible, their suggestions would deserve all respect, and, from 
their local knowledge, might undoubtedly be of the greatest service. 
But this is not what they show the smallest inclination to do. They 
exaggerate the evil of the proposed modes with all the art of which 
they are masters, and all that liberty with facts, which a crowd of 
people, who compose their own public, and have a deep interest in 
what they assert, but seldom scruple ; and, as if these evils of the 
mere modes were evils of the essence, they cry out against the mea- 
sure itself, and endeavour to prevent its existing according to any 
form, or in any mode. From this we are entitled to infer, that it is 
not the inconveniences of the modes, which they are principally en- 
raged against. 

What is necessary for them is — to show that these inconveniences 
cannot be lessened; or rather to show, that the inconveniences, 
when lessened to the utmost, constitute a sum of evil, which all 
the good to be derived from the measure is insufficient to compen- 
sate. Unless this is proved, they prove nothing. This, if they 
argue honestly and fairly, is the case which they have to make 
out. Unless they do make it out, all their pretended reasoning 
is good for nothing. But th's they have never yet attempted 



41 

to make out. This is a task which they have not yet begun. It 
is, indeedj a task which we are tempted to predict they never will 
begin. 

On the other hand^ what is so clear as to be almost too much for 
repetition, is — that the operation of writing in a book the circum- 
stances necessary for the identification of a man's slaves, may be 
performed without occasioning any considerable inconvenience ; and 
that the evil against which this is the only adequate security, is 
liable to be immense ; the greatest conceivable misery of myriads of 
humnn beings. 

What runs through all the reasoning and outcries of the colonists 
upon this subject is the strange assumption, that the smallest incon- 
venience or burthen affecting them, is a matter of unspeakable im- 
portance 5 the mother-country should tremble to impose it upon 
them; but as for exposing the whole of the negroes of the West 
Indies, and even of the whole African const, to the most dreadful 
state of human misery — that is a matter of no consequence at all. If 
any the smallest inconvenience should fall upon the colonists in tak- 
ing securities against that misery ; it is nothing but fire, and fury! 
We hear, as if the world ought to come to an end ! as if all justice 
were banished from the face of the earth ! 

So it is with all those, in every situation, who possess undue power 
over any portion of their fellow-creatures. They speedily come to 
regard their own feelings as all in all j the feelings of the prostrate 
many as an object too insignificant to deserve almost any, the small- 
est portion of regard. What is true of the masters of mankind in 
general, it is not wonderful to find true of the masters of the blacks 
in the West Indies. 

In this situation, to prevent evil, it is absolutely necessary that 
there should be a middle-man between the colonists in the West 
Indies and the prostrate blacks. That middle-man is the British par- 
liament. All the efforts of the colonists are made 10 prevent its be- 
coming that middle-tnan. They say it is not entitled to become a 
middle-man between them. It will be guilty of usurpation if it does 
so. It will perform an act of mere brute power, unsupported by a 
shadow of justice. Such is the extent of their pretension. 

What the report argues with great art and vehemence in support 
of this pretension, is the old claim ol an exclusive right in the colo- 

E 



42 

nies to legislate for themselves. Enough surely has been said under 
this head to supersede the demand for repetition. It is a claim 
which, in the extent to which they carry it, is altogether absurd. A 
claim to legislate for themselves is a claim to govern themselves, and 
to be independent of the British government. 

They forget too, and they are eager to forget, that the existence 
of the black population in the colonies constitutes an important cir- 
cumstance, which is altogether inconsistent with this pretension 3 
unless they will admit the black population to a share in their legis- 
latures, and enable them to protect themselves. Without this, ex- 
cept the British legislature interferes, the black population are left 
altogether without protection ; they are left completely at the mercy 
of men who have an interest in using them like brutes. As many 
times as we hear the right asserted of the colonists to legislate for 
themselves, so many times are we disposed to repeat, as our sole 
and sufficient answer — This is neither more nor less than a demand 
of power without check or limit, to treat the whole of the black 
population as you have an interest to treat them ; that is, as brute 
beasts. Whether you ought to have such a power, let the world be 
judge ! 

If there were no black population in the West Indies, it is very 
evident that the claim of the colonies to legislate for themselves 
would stand on a very different foundation. In that case, there 
would be no part of the population which would not have a share in 
the legislature, and would not have the means of protecting itself* 
For the protection of one part of the population against the other, 
the supreme legislature would have no such occasion to interfere. 
The case is prodigiously different when the greater part of the popu- 
lation has no share whatsoever in the legislature ; in this case, unless 
the supreme parliament interfere, there is no sort of misery which 
one portion of a community are liable to sustain at the hands of ano- 
ther, which will not be sure to fall upon the unprotected part. Is 
this a state of things, from the redressing of which the hands of the 
supreme legislature ought to be tied up ? Is this a condition in which 
you say that it ought to have any portion of the human beings placed 
under its power, and therefore entitled to its protection ? 

The claim of the colonists not to be bound by laws to which they 
have not given their consent, we are very willing to meet, by receive 



'43 

ing their representatives into the British parliament. Eat a claim to 
legislate just as they plea'se between themselves and the blacks, is the 
most monstrous pretension that ever was set up by the subjects of 
any state. It is neither more nor less than a demand of liberty to 
erect every sort of injury which one set of human beings can have 
an interest in commencing against another, into a code of laws 1 
To give one set of men a power of being always judges in their 
own cause, would be a trifle compared with this frightful excess of 
power. 

Every step we take in this argument, only shows us more and 
more how urgent upon the British parliament is the obligation of the 
most effectual interference between the blacks and their masters. 

The Report of the Bahama Assembly endeavours to divert at- 
tention from these important grounds of interference by working 
the word taxation. 

The facts are these : In carrying the law of registration into efFeet, 
as in carrying any other law into effect, some expense is incurred 
A law entirely regarding themselves and their own affairs, it seems 
but reasonable that the colonists should bear the expense of. The 
regulations proposed in the registry bill for this purpose, the Bahama 
Assembly exclaim against, as wrenching from them at once every 
blessing for which life is worth possessing. That the uproar is mere 
affectation, and only an effort to deceive by an artful use of popular 
phrases, is easy to be seen. A right claimed by the British legisla- 
ture to draw taxes from the colonies for the use of the British state 
would be a claim, we confess, attended with danger ; so long as the 
colonists are not represented in the British legislature ; though, if 
we regard substance and not sound, there are few parts of the British 
nation so effectually represented in the parliament as the West India 
colonists. But be this as it may ; a tax for the use of the colonists 
themselves; a tax to defray nothing but the expense of executing 
within the colonies a law of the colonies, stands on a very different 
foundation. There can be very little interest in the Britisli parlia- 
ment to be guilty of abuse in laying taxes of this description. But 
even this matter is altogether confined to the mode. We should 
have no objection to detach from the bill the clauses pointing out the 
mode of defraying the expense. If the colonists will tax themselves 
for that purpose in a manner perfectly sufficient for the purpose. 



44 

nothing more is to be desired. If not, the British parliament can 
raise the money by an additional impost upon their exports and im- 
ports. 

The Bahama Assembly, too, end with threats. They are not, 
however, exactly the same sort of threats as Mr. Chalmers's. They 
are not threats of rebellion, they are only threats of emigration. For 
our own parts, if there was no alternative; if either the blacks must 
be left totally abandoned to the mercy of a set of men, who have 
an interest in imposing upon them intolerable burthens ; or all 
the colonists emigrate 5 we should have no difficulty in our choice. 
The last is, in our apprehension, a trifling misery compared with the 
first. 

The Bahama colonists, says the Report, would transfer them- 
selves, their slaves and other property, to the foreign settlements in 
their neighbourhood. In the very first war, these settlements 
swould all be captured by the British navy. And how would these 
colonists answer it, then, to the British government, and the British 
people .' 

Observe what, they themselves inform us, their attachment to 
their native country is worth. The trouble of writing in a book the 
circumstances necessary to identify each of their slaves, put in the 
scale against their love of their country, kicks it to the beam ! What 
a light commodity I 

As for emigration, no fear ! The advantages they derive from 
their country, they well know, are far superior to the trouble of re- 
gistering their slaves. This is a threat which they have no intention 
of carrying into execution. 

One things however, is highly worthy of notice. The Bahama 
Assembly tell us, they could with the utmost facility transfer all 
their slaves to foreign settlements, in spite of all that could be done 
to prevent thena. The power then of clandestine traffic is complete. 
And to all the asseverations of the colonists about the sufficiency of 
the abolition acts to prevent importation, such admissions as these 
are a sufficient answer. 



Bciisley and Sun, 
3oltCci;;t, Fltft Strct.t, Loncl 



