THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



MARCH, 1833. 



[NO. III. 



CONTINUATION OF EXTRACTS FROM THE 
ANNUAL REPORT. 

The Board of Managers of the New En- 
gland Anti-Slavery Society, in presenting- to 
the public their First Annual Report, deem it 
proper to make a full developement of the mo- 
tives which led to the formation of the Socie- 
ty, — the principles which govern its actions, — 
and the purposes which it aims to accomplish. 
It is right that the people of this country, — 
and especially of New-England, to whose 
countenance and patronage the Society more 
directly appeals, — should understand, fairly 
and plainly, these motives, and principles, and 
purposes. Self defence against the misrep- 
resentations and assaults of ignorance, preju- 
dice and malice, — the success of the cause of 
truth and justice, — imperiously require such 
an exposition at their hands. 

The Managers, while they feel cheered in 
view of what has been accomplished during the 
past year, cannot withhold the expression of 
their regret that there is, in this wide commu- 
nity, such a general aversion to a close, candid 
and i:ealous investigation of a subject, Avhich 
involves the temporal and everlasting welfare 
■of millions of the human family, and the per- 
manency of the institutions of tliis country. 
The ignorance which prevails among all clas- 
ses respecting the nature, extent and wither- 
ing tendency of slavery,as it exists in the south- 
ern states, is as surprising as it is deplorable. 
Many persons, of good information on other 
subjects, cannot even guess the number of 
the slave population.; others are hardly able to 
designate between the free andthe slave states; 
others seem not aware of the fact, that, in va- 
rious portions of territory, slavery is maintain- 
ed by the people and government of the Uni- 
ted States ; others know so little of the physi- 
cal sufferings and spiritual deprivations of the 
slaves, as to receive with incredulity, if not 
positive unbelief, the most well-authenticated 
facts ; others possess merely a general statis- 
tical Ivnowledge, but have never traced the 
pernicious effects of slavery upon the prosper- 
ity and happiness of the slave States, or imag- 
ined that it is, and must inevitably be, the 
source of national division. 

Hence, to this general ignorance may be 
attributed the success of the colonization 
scheme, which, having been received upon 
trust, is still viewed by many benevolent indi- 
viduals as providing a remedy for slavery. 
VOL. I. 



Hence, too, the facility with which false and 
wicked accusations against the cause of abo- 
lition, and its advocates, have been circulated 
throughout the country ; and hence the ne- 
cessity for the present defence. 

Tht motives which actuated the founders of 
the JVew-England Anti-Slavery Society were 
not those of hostility to the interests or persons 
of slave-owners. 

From the statements and complaints of the 
planters themselves — from the visible curse 
which rested upon the slave-tilled soil — from 
the natural unproductiveness of slave labor, 
the slaves being robbed of all motives for 
long-continued, well-directed exertions — from 
the debasing and barbarous tendency of the 
system — from the fears of insurrection, which 
always harass the repose and embitter the cup 
of oppressors — from the solemn lessons which 
all history teaches, that tyranny cannot always 
be exercised with impunity — and from the 
many revolts, which, since the introduction of 
slaves into this country, had taken place, grow- 
ing more and more formidable, and ending with 
the teiTible massacre at Southampton, in Vir- 
ginia — they were convinced that the abolition 
of slavery was the only mode of preserving the 
lives and increasing the wealth of their south- 
ern fellow-citizens. They saw that custom 
and education, as well as a mistaken policy, 
had blinded the eyes of the planters to their 
best interests ; and while they felt and ex- 
pressed, as christians and philanthropists, the 
strongest moral indignation, in view of the 
conduct of the transgressors, they likewise 
cherished the utmost benevolence of feeling 
toward them. To deduct aught from the sum 
of their happiness, in order to increase that of 
their victims — or to depress them in proportion 
to the elevation of the slaves — was not the 
design of the founders of the Anti-Slavery 
Society. It was because their good-will and 
philanthropy were as broad as the earth, em- 
bracing all men as members of one family, and 
estimating the happiness and worth of all by 
the same standard, that they were impelled, in 
defiance of persecution and reproach, to put 
forth every exertion for the overthrow of 
slavery. 

JVor ivere their motives those of a sectional 
character. They associated togetlier to main- 
tain, not to destroy the Union, by endeavoring 
to remove the cause of division. They be- 
lieved, inasmuch aa it is impracticable satisfac- 



'^ ^ 



7^ 



34 



Amiual RepoH of the Board of Managers. 



torily to legislate for a portion of the people 
as men, and another portion as cattle, tliat 
there could be no end to collisions until the 
root of bitterness was taken away ; and that 
nearly all the troubles aiid excitements in the 
land sprang from slavery. There were no 
difficulties or heart-burnings between the free 
States : they did not threaten each other, or 
talk of a separation one from another. The 
longer slavery was tolerated, the more proba- 
ble, in their conviction, was a dismemberment 
of the Union. To seek its utter annihilation, 
tlien, became them as wise men, as patriots, 
as christians, as lovers of their country. They. 
were not so thouglitless, or vain, as to suppose 
that the formation of an anti-slavery society, 
such as they contemplated, would excite no 
opposition ; or that they could go into a free 
discussion of the question of slavery, without 
subjecting themselves to great reproach as 
disorganizers, madmen, and fanatics. All the 
angry ebullitions which their exertions have 
elicited, both at the north and the south, they 
were prepared to meet. They had no alter- 
native but to act the part of the Levite, and 
steel their hearts and close then- ears to the 
cries of two millions of their fellow-creatures, 
or, like the good Samaritan, to compassionate 
the bleeding victims, and seek their deliver- 
ance. However high the tempest of passion 
might rise, on the avowal of their sentiments 
and designs, they were consoled to believe 
that it would serve to purify a foul atmosphere 
which was generating moral death. However 
unkindly their expostulations, T>farnings, re- 
bukes and efforts might at first be received by 
the possessors of slaves, they could not doubt 
their efficacy to produce, ultimately, a radical 
reform. However cruelly the slaves might be 
treated by the excited masters, in consequence 
of their benevolent interposition, they knew 
that that aggravated cruelty would only serve 
to make slavery more odious in tlie sight of 
the people, and hasten its downfall. The ex- 
postulation of Moses A^rith Pharaoh only har- 
dened the heart of the tyrant, and induced him 
to increase the burdens of the Israelites ; for 
he ' commanded the same day, the taskmasters 
of the people, and their officers, saying. Ye 
shall no more give the people straw to make 
brick as heretofore : let them go and gather 
straw for themselves.' Such a result was 
peculiarly distressing to Moses : even his af- 
flicted brethren upbraided him sharply for his 
interference. ' And they met Moses and Aaron, 
who stood in the way, as they came forth from 
Pharaoh : and they said unto them, The Lord 
look upon you, and judge ; because ye have 
made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of 
his servants, to put a sword in their hand to 
slay us.' History is full of instruction upon 
this point : there is scarely an instance on re- 
cord where the exertions of reformers to break 
the fetters of tyranny were not immediately 
succeeded by new and gr''"vou3 disabilities, 



imposed by the angiy oppressors upon their 
vassals. The guilty Jews were cut to the 
heart by the faithful preacliing of Stephen: 
' they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped 
their ears, and ran upon him with one accord, 
and cast him out of the city, and stoned him.' 
All such outrages, however, promote the cause 
of truth, and defeat the object for which they 
were perpetrated. 

Let abolitionists derive consolation and 
hope from these reflections. Let them meek- 
ly bear the taunts and reproaches of half-way 
reformers and temporising gradualists, who ac- 
cuse them of provoldng slaveholders to treat 
their slaves more rigorously than ever. The 
sin lies not at their doors. Upon the perpe- 
trators of these fresh grievances must punish- 
ment be executed by Heaven. Abolitionists 
deeply regret to perceive no disposition, on 
the part of the slaveholding States, to cease 
from their oppression. Witliin the last two 
years, the Legislatures of Maryland, Virginia^ 
SouUi Carolina, Louisiana, Alabama and Ten- 
nessee, have passed laws respecting the free 
colored and slave population of those States, 
which are in the highest degree atrocious. 
The spirit of persecution is abroad, with 
unexampled malignity; but its violence will, 
prove its destruction. 

The New-England Anti-Slavery Society- 
tolerates no compromise of principle. Its de- 
mands upon the holders of slaves are as impe- 
rative as those of the book of inspiration — 'to 
loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the 
heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go 
free.' To all the palliatives and excuses which 
they and their apologists present for their op- 
pressive conduct, it replies in the language of 
Jehovah, 'Thou shalt not steal'—' Thou shalt 
not covet thy neighbor's house, tliou shalt not. 
covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, 
nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, 
nor any thing that is thy neighbor's' — 'Behold 
the hire of the laborers, which have reaped 
down your fields, Avhich is of you kept back 
by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them which 
have reaped are entered into the ears of the 
Lord of Sabaoth.' It regards with dismay and 
horror the doctrine which is becoming popular 
in this land, especially in regard to slavery, 
that 'the end sanctifies the means' — that ex- 
pediency is duty, but duty is not expediency 
— that the guilt of oppression belongs to past 
generations, and repentance to posterity — ^that 
the circumstances of the times, the laAvs of the 
States, the preservation of life and property, 
justify robbery and oppression, and a violation 
of all the commandments— and that immediate 
and universal obedience to the requirements 
of the gospel, on the part of transgressors, will 
produce worse results than continuance in sin, 
or a gradual reformation. 

S if ff * * 

Whatever ignorance or delusion may ad- 
vance to the contrary, the guilt of slaveholding 



Address of William J. Snelling, Esq. 



35 



is national ; tlic evil is national ; and ' a com- 
mon evil implies a common right to apply a 
remedy.' We, of New-England, deeply par- 
ticipate in tlie guilt of oppression, having 
early commenced enslaving the natives of Al- 
rica, and np to the last hour of the legality of 
the traffic, actively prosecuted the foreign 
slave trade. To the south we are now pledg- 
ing our physical force, in case of insurrection, 
and giving our co-operation, without which 
they could not long retain their victims in ser- 
vitude. To the slaves, therefore, we are bound 
to make i-eparation ; and no pretext or device 
can release us from our obligations. 'Whoso 
stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he 
also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.' 
The Board of Managers would solemnly 
protest against the doctrine, that slavery con- 
cerns the south alone, and that the people of 
the free States have no right to demand its 
removaL They regard it as politically and 
morally false, calculated to pai-alyze the con- 
sciences and efforts of the people, and give 
perpetuity to the system. It is true, the peo- 
ple of New-England cannot legislate for the 
southern States ; that the national compact 
was so framed as to guarantee the legal pos- 
session of slaves ; and that physical interfer- 
ence would be a violation of christian princi- 
ples. But, so long as slaves are held in the 
District of Columbia and in the Territories of 
the United States ; so long as ours is a repre- 
sentative government, subject to the will of 
the people ; so long as no efforts are made to 
modify or repeal the present compact, by those 
who have both the right and the power thus to 
do ; so long as the intei'ests of the non-slave- 
holding States are jeoparded by the twenty- 
five slave votes in Congress ; so long as mor- 
al influence, widely and wisely disseminated, 
is productive of beneficial results ; so long as 
public opinion is the lever of national reform ; 
so long as the people of New-England are lia- 
ble to be called upon to put down slave insur- 
rections at the south ; so long as there is nei- 
ther the liberty of speech nor of the press, on 
the subject of oppression, in a large portion of 
our country, so long as southern States deprive 
the colored citizens of New-England, who may 
visit them, of their liberty and the rights of cit- 
izenship guaranteed to them by the Constitu- 
tion of the United States; so long as slavery 
mars the hannony, divides the policy, retards 
the prosperity, and fearfully threatens the ex- 
istence of the nation; so long as the commands 
of Jesus remain binding upon all men, 'What- 
soever ye would that men should do to you, 
do ye even so to them' — ' Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself ; so long as there remains 
any flesh in our hearts, any physical or moral 
affinity between us and our enslaved brethren, 
any love to God or man in our souls ; it never 
can be true that the people of New-England 
are not bound to use their moral and political 
power to overthrow slavery in the United 
States. 



EXTRACTS FROM AN ADDRESS, 

DELIVERKD BEFORE THE N. E. ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY, .By WM. J. SNELLING, ESQ. 

Friends and Felloiv Citizens : I. come hither 
to night at the request of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society, to address you ozi an 
old subject, but one that can never be urged 
too often or too strongly on the attention of 
every true lover of his country. I come to re- 
mind you that more than two millions of our 
fellow creatures are groaning in bondage, 
that on this night, and on every night of the 
year, millions of curses go up against us to the 
judgment seat of Jehovah ; and it cannot but 
be obvious, that in so far as we have neglect- 
ed to redress the wrongs of our bretliren, hav- 
ing the power to do so, we have deserved them. 

I think that there is not much need of argu- 
ment to prove, that to retain a fellow-creature 
in thraldom, is wrong. Yet, if there be any 
one here who thinks otherwise, I would refer 
him to a single precept of Him who died for 
all men, without distinction of color : 'As ye 
would have others to do unto you, do ye even 
so unto them.' In my view, this text is as 
clear a prohibition of slavery, as inspiration it- 
self could have uttered— a,nd even those who 
deny the Saviour, have never denied the ex- 
cellence of this His precept. 

I have often heard it said, and perhaps the 
thought may occur to some who hear me, that 
Avhatever the e\'ils of negro slavery may be, 
they are no affairs of ours. Every day we 
hear those who are actively engaged in the 
best and holiest cause that ever warmed the 
heart of man, the abolition of slavery, called 
by the reproachful names of fanatics, visiona- 
ries and enthusiasts. We every day hear it 
repeated that the crime of slavery is attributa- 
ble only to our fathers, who entailed it upon 
us ; that the laws have sanctioned it, and that 
therefore we must submit to the national re- 
proach with patience. It requires some pa- 
tience to listen to such arguments. What ! 
because we do not receive the immediate gains 
of extorted labor — because we do not apply 
the scourge with our own hands — is the op- 
pression under which the slave suffers no af- 
fair of ours ? I hold that it concerns us as 
nearly as it does the actual slaveholder. Do 
Ave not offer the south a market for the pro- 
duce of the toil of her slaves ? Could the sys- 
tem of slavery subsist for a year, nay, for a 
single day, were that market closed ? Every 
one, who buys a pound of southern sugar, or a 
yard of southern cotton, virtually approves and 
sanctions an hour, or more, of slave labor. We 
are yet farther interested in this momentous 
matter. We have, by acceding to the Federal 
Constitution, solemnly and as a people, guar- 
anteed the continuance of slavery. We, that 
is all of us between eighteen and forty-five, are 
liable to be called to suppress, what we should 
call rebellion, but v/hat a] 1 other nations will 
call a glorious revolution. Judging from late 



36 



Address of William J. Snellvig, Esq. 



events, it will be no cause of surprise if we 
are soon made sensibly to feel the inconve- 
nience of this liability. Moreover, it is our 
moral influence, the fear of our bayonets, that 
prevents the slave from shaking- oft' his fetters. 
If we have approved the system, if we continue 
to lend it our support, if we are pledged not 
to suffer its summary abolition, can it be said 
that, in speaking of it, we meddle with what 
concerns us not ? Can it be said, while we 
continue to do these things, that no blame is 
to be attributed to us ? 

It is true that our fathers committed a griev- 
ous crime in bringing slaves to our shores. 
The original guilt was theirs, not ours. If we 
cannot rid ourselves of this curse, if the con- 
sequences of their sin cannot be remedied, 
then we are entirely guiltless ; for in ■\vhat is 
necessary, there is neither crime nor reproach. 
But if we ever could have eftected the aboli- 
tion of slavery, if we can still effect it, as I be- 
lieve we can, and do not, our guilt is the same, 
in kind, as theirs, and greater in degree, for 
its victims are ten times more numerous. We 
stand witli them in the relation of receiver and 
thief. 

We are often told that the condition of the 
slaves is a happy one ; preferable to that of 
the laboring whites in the north. If it be so, 
how comes it that so many masters and over- 
seers are murdered by their negroes every 
year .'' How comes it that every southern pa- 
per offers us rewards for the apprehension of 
runaways ? and how is it that these riinaways 
are almost always identified by the scars of 
the whip and other marks of the brutality of 
their owners ? If the slaves be happy and 
contented, whence the insurrection of South- 
ampton, and why do southern gentlemen in- 
form us in their public speeches that they never 
open their doors at night when the stranger 
knocks,without deadly weapons in their hands ? 
Every slave is liable, in every slaveholding 
state, to be beaten, as the caprice of any, the 
meanest white, may dictate. In some states 
his death is atoned by a slight fine. Every 
slave is liable, at the death of his master, to be 
sold, and torn from his parents, wife or tender 
offspring, as the case may be. Such is the 
law, and so, in slave states, must property ne- 
cessarily be divided. No matter v.'hat suffer- 
ing may be the consequence, no matter how 
much the best and strongest feelings of nature 
may be outraged, the heirs viiist divide the in- 
heritance. I think I may venture to assert 
that one slave, of every two in the United 
States, has thus been, at some time of his life, 
forcibly separated from those nearest and dear- 
est to him. Women, I can say it, for I have 
seen it, do not escape the lash. I call on all 
who hear me to decide if such a state is a hap- 
py one. If there be a father who Avould part 
with his child to a stranger, forever, to be car- 
ried he knows not whither, he will, perhaps, 
say that it is. If there is a husband who Avould 



stand quietly by and see his wife's body lace- 
rated by the scourge, or perhaps subjected to 
brutalities which are unfit to be named, he 
will decide in the affirmative. Such things I 
have known to be done, as to describe would 
make the flesh creep and the blood curdle. 

A being who can be content to labor every 
day, from morning till night, for the benefit of 
another, who can submit to be beaten, who can 
be contented under his liability to be sold like 
a piece of merchandize, and torn from those 
appointed by God to make him happy, is not a 
man. He is a brute, in no wise superior to his 
fellow laborer, the horse, or ox. His feelings 
cannot be called happy. Is there any free, 
intelligent man, who would change conditions 
with such a being ? Is the state in which he 
exists, for he cannot be said to live, compara- 
ble even to that of the poorest and most 
laborious native of New-England ? To say 
that it is, would be an insult to my country- 
men. 

An idle school boy may think the suppres- 
sion of schools an improvement in the state of 
society, and so may a man, provided he be a 
slaveholder. I hold it one of the greatest mis- 
eries to which the slaves are subjected, that 
they are not permitted to learn to read and 
write. Such a prohibition abridges their com- 
forts, lessens their chance of happiness, and 
brings them nigher to the level of brutes. In 
some states it is highly penal to teach a slave 
to read. How wretched must that country be, 
whose safety can only be assured by such 
laws ! laws Avhich condemn half its inhabitants 
to everlasting degradation ! Yet it is good 
policy — learning and slavery can no more exist 
together than fire and water. Teach the 
slaves to read, and they are slaves no longer. 
— If this want of intelligence is happiness, 
why not yet further diminish the slave's means 
of information .? Why not put out his eyes, 
crack the drums of his ears, sew up his lips, 
put plugs in his nostrils — why not, in short, 
make an oyster of him ? According to the 
reasoning of some philanthropists, he would 
then be the happiest of mankind. He would 
not, indeed, be able to raise sugar or cotton ; 
but what man, what slaveholder is there, who 
would not sacrifice a little sugar and cotton to 
make a man happy ? 

What will be the feelings of the sincere 
christian, when he reflects that two millions 
of his fellow heirs of immortal life are forbid- 
den to know their Saviour, debarred from all 
religious instruction ? Christ declared that he 
died for all men — the legislatures of some 
states have virtually contradicted him, and 
said that whoso weareth a dark skin shall have 
no portion in his blood. Yes, unrighteous and 
oppressive as it may seem, in some states ne- 
groes are forbidden to assemble to worship 
their maker. This too is good policy, for re- 
ligion is as opposite to slavery as learning is. 
Surely, no land ever treated its foreign bond- 



Safety of Immediate Abolition. 



37 



men with such severity as ours docs its own 
children. The ancient Jews protected their 
servants, and had their year of release — their 
day of jubilee, so that, in fact, slavery witli 
them was but an apprenticeship. The laws 
of Minus compelled the Cretan master to 
chano-e places Avith his servant once a year. 
In Athens the slaves had freedom of speech, 
and a temple to which they might fly for pro- 
tection when abused. In Sparta, slaves were 
the property of the state ; not of individuals. 
In no ancient nation were slaves forbidden to 
learn, or to woi-ship. Among the Mahometans 
of our own day, every seventh year is a jubi- 
lee for slaves. Here, among Christians, among 
men who boast of their freedom, slavery is un- 
mitigated and perpetual. I cannot conceive 
of any slavery without crime and misery, but 
no slavery of which I have read was any thing- 
like ours. Here, no light is permitted to shine 
on the bondman, no hope to cheer him. His 
present is miserable, his future dark and com- 
fortless. In such circumstances, can we won- 
der at his degradation ? Can we wonder that, 
when goaded to frenzy, he does burst the 
bonds of his fear, he is as ferocious and san- 
guinary as the great bear of our western 
prairies ? 

It must be admitted, that, in some parts of 
the slave states, the blacks are permitted to 
attend the same churches with their masters, 
but this fact does not invalidate what has been 
said. They there hear sermons, preached by 
educated men to educated hearers, which, ig- 
norant as they are, are entirely above their 
comprehension. 

(To be continued.) 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. No. III. 

During the last American war, 774 slaves 
escaped from their masters, and were at the 
termination of the war settled in Trinidad as 
free laborers, where they are earning their 
own livelihood with industry and good con- 
duct. The following extract of a letter, re- 
ceived in 1899 from Trinidad by Mr. Pownall, 
will show the usefulness and respectability of 
these liberated negroes. ' A field negro brings 
400 dollars, but most of the work is done by 
free blacks and people from the main at a much 
cheaper rate ; and as these are generally em- 
ployed by foreigners, this accounts for their 
succeeding better than our own countrymen, 
who are principally from the old islands, and 
are unaccustomed to any other management 
than that of slaves ; however, they are coming 
into it fast. In Trinidad, there are upwards 
of fifteen thousand free people of color; there 
is not a single pauper amongst them ; they live 
independently and com^fortably, and nearly half 
of the property of the island is said to be in 
their hands. It is admitted that they are high- 
ly respectable in character, and are rapidly 



advancing in knowledge and refinement.' Mr. 
Mitchell, a sugar plante'r who had resided 27 
years in Trinidad, and who is the superinten- 
dent of the liberated negroes there, says he 
knoAvs of no instance of a manumitted slave 
not maintaining himself. In a paper printed 
by the House of Commons in 1827, (No. 479) 
he says of the liberated blacks under his su- 
perintendence, that each of them possessed an 
allotment of land which he cultivated, and on 
which he raised provisions and other articles 
for himself and his family ; his wife and chil- 
dren aiding him in the work. A great part, 
however, of the time of the men (the women 
attending to the domestic menage) was freely 
given to laboring on the neighboring plan- 
tations, on which- they worked not in general 
by the day but by the piece. Mr Mitchell says 
that their work is well executed, and that they 
can earn as much as four shillings a day. If, 
then, these men who have, land on which they 
can support themselves are yet willing to work 
for hire, how is it possible to doubt that in case 
of general emancipation,the freed negroes who 
who would have no land of their own would 
gladly work for wages ? 

A few years ago, about 150 negro slaves, at 
different times, succeeded in making their es- 
cape from Kentucky into Canada. Captain 
Stuart, who lived in upper Canada from 1817 
to 1822, was generally acquainted with them, 
and employed several of them in various ways. 
He found them as good and as trustworthy la- 
borers in every respect as any emigrants from 
the islands or from the United States, or as the 
natives of the country. In 1828, he again vis- 
ited that country, and found that their numbers 
had increased by new refugees to about 300. 
They had purchased a tract of woodland, a 
few miles from Amherstburgh, and were set- 
tled on it, had formed a little village, had a 
minister of their own number, color and choice, 
a good old man of some talent with whom Cap- 
tain Stuart was well acquainted, and though 
poor, were living soberly, honestly and indus- 
triously, and were peacefully and usefully get 
ting their own living. 

In consequence of the Revolution in Colom- 
bia, all the slaves who joined the Colombia ar- 
mies,amounting to a considerable number,were 
declared fi-ee. General Bolivar enfranchised 
his own slaves to the amount of between 700 
and 800, and many proprietors followed his 
example. At that time Colombia was over- 
run by hostile armies, and the masters were 
often obliged to abandon their property. The 
black population (including Indians) amounted 
to 900,000 persons. Of these, a large number 
Avas suddenly emancipated, and Avhat has been 
effect? Where the opportunities ofinsnrrec- 
tion have been so frequent and so tempting, 
what has been the effect ? M. Ravenga de- 
clares that the effect has been a degree of do- 
cility on the part of the blacks, and a degree of 
security on the part of the tvhites, unknown in 



38 



Safety of Immediate Aholition. 



any preceding period of the history of Co- 
lombia. 

On the 15th of September, 1829, a decree 
was issued by the Mexican Government, de- 
claring- that ' Slavery is for ever abolished in 
the republic ; and that consequently all those 
individuals, who, until this day, looked upon 
themselves as slaves, are fi-ee.' 

If this most sudden emancipation had been 
attended with any disturbance of the public 
peace, would irot some of the friends of slave- 
ry have told us of it? 

Dr. Walsh * states that in Brazil there are 
600,000 enfranchised persons, either Africans 
or of African descent, who were either slaves 
themselves or are the descendants of slaves. 
He says they are, generally speaking, ' well 
conducted and industrious persons, who com- 
pose indiscriminately different orders of the 
community. There are among them merchants, 
farmers, doctors, lawyers, priests and officers 
of different ranks. Every considerable town 
in the interior has regiments composed of them.' 
The benefits arising from them, he adds, have 
disposed the whites to think of making free the 
whole negro population. 

Mr. Koster, an Englishman living in Brazil, 
confirms Mr. Walsh's statement, f ' There 
are black regiments,' he observes, 'composed 
entirely and exclusively of black Creole sol- 
diers, commanded by black Creole officers 
from the corporal to the colonel. I have seen the 
several guard-houses of the toAvn occupied by 
these troops. Far from any apprehension be- 
ing entertained on this score, it is well known 
that the quietude of this country, and the feel- 
ing of safety which every one possesses al- 
though surrounded by slaves, proceed from 
the contentedness of the free people.' 

An experiment tried on a small scale in Tor- 
tola (it must be owned with some peculiar ad- 
vantages) has been completely successful. 
Samuel Nottingham, a quaker who became 
possessed of a small estate in Tortola, to which 
were attached twenty-five negroes, determin- 
ed on manumitting them, and did so by a deed 
executed on the 30th of June, 1776. He gave 
them a plantation with every thing thereunto 
belonging, and secured it to them and their 
offspring. In the year 1822, this plantation 
was visited several times by two highly respec- 
table gentlemen, who give the following ac- 
count of its proprietors. 'Of the original per- 
sons liberated, nine are still alive ; besides 
whom there are twenty-five of their children, 
and nine grand children, making in all forty- 
five persons. The whole of them reside on 
the same plantation, which they have ever 
since cultivated. Half of it is chiefly in pro- 
visions, and the rest is used as pasturage for 
their stock, which consists of twenty-eight 
cows, thirteen goats and thirteen hogs. Jef- 



* Walsh's Notes on Brazil, vol. 2, page 365. 
t Amelioration of Slavery, published in No. 16 of the 
Faraphleteer. 



frey Nottingham, one of those originally e- 
mancipated, exclusive of his share in the plan- 
tation and stock, possesses five acres of land, 
a house in Spanish town, and a vessel of twen- 
ty-three feet keel. Diana and Eve have each 
a boat of seventeen and fourteen feet keel. 
For some years, the seasons were so bad that 
they found it difficult to get water for their 
stock, and got little return for their labor ; but 
still they had been able to support themselves, 
and to acquire the property mentioned above, 
while they increased in number from 25 to 43. 
Not one of them is now in debt ; and their 
property is free fi"om all incumbrance. During 
the whole period since their emancipation, 
none of them have been sued in court, or 
brought before a Magistrate to answer to any 
complaint. They are a fine healthy race, all 
black, and seem to dwell very happily togeth- 
er.' 

The account given in several Jamaica news- 
papers of the condition of a little colony of 
runaway slaves in Trelawny proves very de- 
cidedly their fitness for freedom; yet there is 
not the slightest reason to think that they were 
better qualified to make a good use of it than 
any other slaves in our colonies. These ac- 
counts are given by their enemies, who mix 
with the description insults and wishes for 
their destruction. About the year 1812, a 
dozen negroes who had escaped from slavery, 
settled themselves in the back districts of Tre- 
lawny, in the interior of Jamaica, where they 
built a few houses and brought two hundred 
acres of land into cultivation. The Montego 
Bay Gazette of October 29th, 1824, gives the 
following account of the state in which a par- 
ty who went to seize the settlers as runaways, 
found their town and lands. ' They had a- 
abouttwo hundred acres of very fine provisions 
in full bearing, with abundance of hogs and 
poultry. The houses appear to be of consid- 
erable magnitude, are well built, sliingled and 
floored; one of the buildings is seventy feet 
long, another forty, and few under twenty -five. 
We also understand that there are near the 
town, from thirty to forty acres of beautiful 
coffee and a large field of canes.' The Corn- 
wall Courier, of November 3rd, gives nearly 
the same account, and adds, 'We understand 
a runaway, who is taken, mentions there is a 
track to the town fi-om Windsor Pen, by which 
the negroes of different estates have been in 
the practice of going with asses to exchange 
salt provisions with the runaways for their 
ground provisions, and with which they have 
added to the supply of the Sunday Market in 
this town.' The Cornwall Gazette of Novem- 
ber 2nd, says, ' After our last publication, we 
gave circulation to a bulletin briefly relating 
the particulars of the now famous town, called 
by its refined and polished inhabitants, 'We 
no seen, you no come.' The party of militia 
and maroons, under the command of Lieuten- 
ant Colonel Scott, after a march ofeight hours, 



Letter from James Croppei- to Tliomas ,Clarkson. 



39 



readied the first of their provision-grounds, 
consisting" of a cocoa piece nearly a niile from 
the town. The party now having full posses- 
sion of the town, quietly took up their quarters 
in the houses where the former possessors had 
been busily employed in culinary aftairs, and 
tlie assailants became partakers of that cheer 
which was intended for themselves.' The wri- 
ter of the account adds, ' The Jamaica journ- 
als, before-mentioned, contain no direct charge 
against the inhabitants of this little settlement. 
All the circumstances mentioned (and these 
are given by their enemies) warrant us in con- 
cluding that they kept themselves peaceably 
at home, and that they did no injury to their 
neighbors. Indeed, it appears that they Avere 
useful to them, as through the medium of the 
negroes who came to them with their asses, 
they contributed to supply with ground provi- 
sions the markets in one of the neighboring- 
towns. These facts enable us to confute those 
calumnies which describe the negroes as insen- 
sible to the blessings of freedom, and convince 
us that they are able to manage their own 
concerns, and that they would work, if emanci- 
pated, willingly, and that they need no impulse 
from the whip. No one can lookback to what 
these fugitives have done in the way of culti- 
vation, and believe that negroes would not 
work when emancipated, if a proper stimidus 
were given them.' 



A LETTER FROM JAMES CROPPER TO 
THOMAS CLARKSON. 

Liverpool, 10th month, 2d, 1832. 
My Dear Friez^d : 

It has caused me deep regret to see thy 
name amongst those of many long tried friends 
of humanity as supporters of the American 
Colonization Society ; though I am not surpris- 
ed that many under the mask of a voluntary 
and prosperous settlement of free blacks on the 
coast of Africa — a measure in which every 
friend of humanity must rejoice — have been 
led to support a scheme, the nature and effects 
of which are of a very different character. 

In judging of this scheme, we ought never 
to lose sight of two facts with respect to the 
enslaved Africans in the United States, in 
which the enormities of that free country have 
exceeded those of any other. Tlie first is, 
that slaves are regularly bred for sale. The 
second, that in many of the States, the laws 
affecting free blacks are of so violently perse- 
cuting a character as to compel those who ob- 
tain their liberty to leave those States. From 
the former of these causes, instances must 
often occur, (from the state of morals in slave 
countries,) of fathers selling" their own chil- 
dren!! From the latter has originated the 
Colonization Society ; it arose out of these 
prejudices against color, and is a direct attempt 
to extend the same principle to transporta- 
tion. 



Why are slaveholders so anxious to send 
away free people of color ? Because their 
slave institutions would be endangered by the 
competition of respectable free black laborers ; 
and they dread still more their education and 
advancement in science. If they were desir- 
ous to serve the free blacks, they would in- 
struct them at home, (not a few of them, but 
every one that they send,) and not send them 
in ignorance to a barbarous country. 

To this real scheme of transporting the peo- 
ple of color a professed one is attaclied, for 
the ultimate extinction of slavery, by the trans- 
portation of the whole black population to the 
coast of Africa; and we are gravely told that 
one hundred thousand slaves are ready to be 
given up, if means can be found of sending 
them to Africa! A most extraordinary state- 
ment, and one for which I believe there is no 
foundation, in either fact or probability. Can 
it be believed that the slaveholders of the Uni- 
ted States are ready to give up their property, 
worth at least Jive millions sterling'? — a liber- 
ality unheard of since the foundation of the 
world. In all the rest of the United States, 
enough to pay the expense of their emigration 
cannot be raised, and hence it is sought for in 
England. If there was any truth in this won- 
derful statement, we must all of us have been 
sadly deceived about the debasing effects of 
slaveholding on the ndnds of those engaged 
in it. No other occupation ever produced 
such extraordinary liberality. 

It would be interesting to know to what 
class these men belong. Is it the practice 
of selling their own children, which has pro- 
duced this extraordinary effect .'' Or are 
these men amongst the slave buyers, who 
purchase them for no other purpose, than 
to give them their freedom as soon as the 
means of sending tliem to Liberia can be 
found ? Is it not strange indeed, that any 
man can be bold enough to make assertions 
so ob\iously at variance witli truth ? To what- 
ever extent this transportation of slaves was 
carried, the slaveholders know that the price 
of those slaves which remained would be en- 
hanced, and their condition embittered, by the 
removal of all hopes of liberty, so precious to 
the human soul. The free colored people 
being kept few and poor, will be prevented 
from rising, by fair competition, to the equal 
rank and honor to v/hich that competition nat- 
urally conducts, when not marred in its pro- 
gress by some such scheme as the American 
Colonization Society. No wonder that, with 
the exception of some who do not understand 
the plan, the planters are friendly to the colo- 
nization scheme. But the free people of color 
are opposed to this scheme. They have com- 
mitted no crime, and do not like to be transport- 
ed and to suffer the highest penalty of the law 
next to death. 

To whatever extent the United States ex- 
patriate their cotton cultivators, tliey destroy 



40 



Letter from James Cropper to Thomas Clarkson. 



one of the chief sinews of their own prosper- 
ity, and increase the temptation to other states 
to renew the slave trade by fresh importations. 
The whole revenue of the United States, for 
fully thirty years to come, would be required 
to purchase the slaves, and to transport them 
and the free blacks to Africa. Such an idea 
as the extinction of slavery by means of the 
Colonization Society can never have been se- 
riously contemplated. No ! — Perpetuation, and 
not extinction of slavery, is its object ! 

The first command ever given to man was, 
'Be fruitful and multiply.' Who can doubt 
that it is for his interest to obey this and every 
other command of God .' But in no case is it 
so manifest as when in a state of slavery. The 
value of men, as of every other commodity, 
is governed by their plenty or scarcity ; where 
they are so abundant that parishes are will- 
ing to pay the expenses of emigration to get 
rid of them, there must be an end of slavery. 
Every increase of numbers tends, Avhilst it is 
a proof of better treatment, to promote the 
mitigation and final extinction of slavery ; and 
it must be admitted that the Americans evince 
this proof of good treatment. 

The slaves in the United States have rapidly 
increased, and this increase has been highly 
beneficial to the cause of humanity. It is es- 
timated that they have increased since 1808, 
(the time of both our and their abolition of 
the slave trade,) from 1,130,000 to 2,010,000, 
and they have more than trebled the growth 
of cotton since the peace of 1814, and have 
reduced its price to one thkd of what it then 
was, though the Brazils, with all their slave 
trading, have only added one fourth part to 
their growth of cotton in the same time. Hence 
it is plain, that if there has been any increase 
in the cotton cultivators of Bi'azils, few or no 
slaves can have been imported for its cultiva- 
tion. May we not then say that the increase 
of the slave population of the United States 
has done more than all our enormous expen- 
diture for the suppression of the African slave 
trade ? 

It cannot but be interesting to thee to know 
"what would have been the effect of a similar 
increase in the English West Indian slaves. 
Had they increased in the same proportion 
as those of the United States (since the aboli- 
tion of the slave trade) their numbers would 
have been 728,317 more than they now are, 
which, if employed in the cultivation of sugar, 
would have been sufficient to have produced 
an increase of 240,000 tons annually, whilst all 
the slave trading of the Brazils and Cuba and 
the French colonies have only added 115,000 
tons to their growth. Such an increase of 
sugar would have greatly reduced its price, 
and consequently the price of slaves, and 
thereby have destroyed the slave trade for the 
growth of sugar, as it has long since extin- 
guished that for the cultivation of indigo, and 
more recently for the growth of cotton* 



The disguise is now removing, and the real 
tendency of the society is becoming appar- 
ent. A bill was reported to the House of 
Delegates of Virginia for sending the free 
blacks away by force ; but though this com- 
pulsory clause was rejected, it is added that 
several other motions were made, and deci- 
ded by majorities which amply proved the 
determination of the House, to adopt some 
measure for the removal of the free blacks. 
These legislators admit that the free blacks 
will not leave the land without some sort of 
force ; Avhich may either be absolute, or by 
rendering their situation absolutely intolera- 
ble. 

Great injury has been done to the cause of 
negro emancipation by the encouragement 
which the agent of this most diabolical scheme 
has received from the sanction of thy name. 
The term diabolical is not too- severe ; for 
never did Satan, with more success, trans-' 
form himself into an angel of light, than in 
the gloss which has covered its deformities. 

These persecuted free blacks view the 
whole plan with the abhorrence which is just- 
ly due to it, and with which Ave should view a 
plan of general transportation from the land 
of our nativity. The slave-oAvners are its ad- 
A'ocates and supporters. Surely the name of 
Clarkson will be withdrawn from the ranks of 
the oppressors, and Avillbe found, as it has ever 
yet been, amongst the friends of the oppress- ' 
ed African race. 

Let us repair the injury which has been 
done on both sides of the Avater by this unholy 
connection between slaveholders and philan- 
thropists ; for since this scheme has been on 
foot, its deadening influence on the energies 
of the fi-iends of humanity in the United States 
has been most manifest. 

Let there no longer be any doubt which 
side is taken by the philanthropists of Eng- 
land. Let them declare their deep feeling of 
sympathy Avith these sorely persecuted and 
oppressed people ; and'such an example will 
be folloAA^ed in the United States, Avhere the 
friends of humanity will hasten to leave the 
ranks of the oppressors, and the cause of jus- 
tice will again flourish. 

May 1 particularly request thy attentive pe- 
rusal of the folloAving twenty pages, Avritten 
by my friend Charles Stuart, one of the most 
devoted Christians I have ever known, and 
an unwearied advocate of the oppressed Af- 
ricans, I am, with great regard, 
Thy sincere friend, 

JAMES CROPPER. 



'Immortal souls' in slavery ! Subjects of the 
grace of God, and the purchase of the pre- 
cious blood of Christ, in slavery ! Beings ca-' 
pable of all the blessings of civil society, de- 
prived of them all, to administer to the vices 
and pleasure of others ! If this be mercy, what 
is not ? Hail, ye sons of Benevolence ! ' 



Savage and Barbarous Cusloms' of Different J^ations. 



41 



[For Uic Abolilionist.] 

SAVAGE AND BARBAROUS CUSTOMS OF 

DIFFERENT NATIONS. 

Henry. Father, what were that gentleman 
and you talking about ? I tliought it must be 
something very interesting, and I hoped he 
would come in, that we might hear him. 

Father. That gentleman has been a great 
traveller, and was telling of some very shock- 
ing and cruel customs which he had seen 
among barbarous nations in different parts of 
the world.* 

Henry. Will you tell us something about 
them, Father? 

Father. He told me he had once been 
among a people who had been in the habit of 
killing a great many of their little children, as 
soon as they were born. 

Mary. Oh! Father, how wicked ! 

Henry. Who killed them. Father ? 

Father. The fathers and mothers either 
killed them themselves, or employed others to 
do it. Mr. A. the gentleman who told me 
about it, once rnet a man who told him he 
had killed seven of his own children. These 
poor ignorant people had some notions, which 
made them think it was right to kill them. 
But good people, called missionaries, have 
gone there from Christian countries to teach 
them to be good, and have translated the bible, 
or part of it, into their language, and taught 
them to read it ; and since that, they have al- 
most all left off killing their children. 

Mary. Oh, how 'glad I am ! 

Henry. What country was it, Father ? 

Father. It was at the Society Islands, in 
the South Pacific ocean. You can find it on 
the map of the world, and may shew it to your 
little sistei". Mr. A. afterwards went to anoth- 
er place, where the people were very savage 
and cruel ; but the most shocking thing among 
them was that they sometimes ate human 
beings, men, women and children. 

Manj. Oh, Father, how dreadful ! I did 
not know any people did so. 

Henry. My geography says that the NeAv 
Zealanders are cannibals, that is, eaters of 
human flesh. Was this at New Zealand, 
Father ? 

Father. Yes, it was. 

Mary. Did they kill people on purpose to 
eat them ? 

Father. Yes — it was generally those whom 
they had taken prisoners in war, that they 
killed and ate. A little hoy who Avas in a ship 
that went there, and who thought the New 
Zealanders were going to kill him, asked his 
Father if it would hurt him to be eaten after he 
was killed. 

Mary. It Avould not hurt him, would it ? 

Father. No. But happily the poor child 



* All the facts concerning the customs of different 
countries, related in this dialogue, are believed to be 
true, though they were probably never all seen by any 
owe traveller. 

VOL. I. 



was not killed, nor any of the people in the 
vessel. 

Mary. I think these New Zealanders are 
very wicked. 

Father. I do not tliink they know how 
wicked it is. 

Henry. Have any missionaries been sent 
there ? 

Father. Yes, and I hope they will soon 
learn better. In another country, Mr. A. saw 
a Avoman burned to death Avith the dead body 
of her husband. She got on fi-'-pile of Avood 
on Avhich the body was burned, and one ot 
her relations then set it on fire. Widows 
often did so in that country, because they im- 
agined that it Avas a good action, and that they 
should be happier for it after death. But there 
have been laAvs made to forbid the burning of 
any more Avomen. 

Mary. I am very glad of that. 

Henry. This country Avas Hindostan, Avas 
it not.' I have read about it before. 

Father. You are right. At the next coun- 
try he Avent to, he saw many strange things. 
One day he saw a Avoman come out of a house, 
and bloAv a sort of Avhistle Avhich she had by 
her side. At the sound of it, more than thirty 
cliildren, Avho had no clothes on, came running 
up to a great trough, into Avhich she poured a 
parcel of Avash, such as people here feed pigs 
with. Then all the children stooped their 
heads doAvn, and ate out of the trough. 

Many. What ! Avithout any spoons or plates ? 

Father. Yes, they sucked it up Avith their 
mouths, like so many little pigs. 

Henry. You knoAv, Mary, there are many 
savage nations who do not have such things 
as spoons or plates ; hut I never heard of any 
Avho ate in this way before. 

Mary. Were the children as big as I ? 

Father. They Avere from tAvo to ten years old. 

Mary. Was the Avoman their mother? 

Father. Oh no, she had bought them. 

Henry. Bought them ! bought children ! 
Was she going to eat them ? 

Father. No, the people in that country are 
not cannibals. 

Henry. What did she Avant of them, then ? 

Father. She Avas going to keep them till 
they grew bigger, and then she expected to 
sell them again for a good deal more than she 
had given for them, to people Avho 'A\^anted 
them to work for them. 

Mary. Was she kind to them ? 

Father. She did not seem to care any thing 
about them, only to give them food that they 
might groAV large enough to sell. 

Man). Did their fathers and mothers sell 
them to the Avoman ? 

Father. No. Other people took them from 
their parents, and sold them. 

Mary. Did they not cry? 

Father. I dare say they did, poor little 
things, and their parents too, Avho Avould very 
Likely never see their children again. 
6 



43 



Free People of Color. 



Mary. Oh, I think these people are almost 
as bad as those who killed their babies. 

Henry. Oh no, Mary, not so bad as that. 

Mary. Why only think, Henry, how we 
should feel to be taken away from our father 
and mother, and sold to a Avicked woman, who 
would not care anything about us. 

Henry. I do not know but they are worse 
than the New Zealanders, forthe people whom 
they kill and eat are those whom tliey think 
their enemies, who would perhaps kill them 
if they did not ; but these poor little children 
could not have done any harm. 

Father. Mr. A. was told a story of a little 
girl in the same country, who was suspected of 
having set a house on fire. She said she had 
not done it, but v/as not believed; and was 
shut up in a room, and told that she must stay 
there without any food, till she confessed that 
she had. After she had been a good ivhile 
without food, she felt quite hungry, and weak, 
and sick. 

Mary. Poor little girl ! Father, if I felt so, 
I am afraid I should be so naughty as to say I 
had done the thing, even if I had not, so that 
they might give me something to eat. 

Father. At last she confessed that she had 
set the house on fire. 

Henry. Then I hope they forgave her. 

Father. My dear children, the rest of the 
story is almost too horrible to tell you. As 
soon as she had eaten the food that was given 
her, she said again that she did not burn the 
house, and had only said she did because she 
was so hungry. But she was -not believed, 
and the people burned her to death as a pun- 
ishment. 

Hem-y. How dreadful ! Are all the people 
so wicked? 

Father. I hope not, but the burning of this 
poor child was done by the law of the coun- 
try. They have very strange laws there, Mr. 
A. said. He heard of some people who had 
committed murder, and others vAio had com- 
mitted other crimes, but were not punished, 
because those who knew about what had been 
done were forbidden by law to tell what they 
knew to the judges. So they would not be 
afraid to do the same thing again. 

Henry. It is the strangest country I ever 
heard of. 

Father. So the traveller thought. At last 
he found out that there were tivo distinct sets 
or classes of people in the country. One class 
were liable to have their children taken away 
from them and sold, like those I told you 
about; and indeed the men and women too, 
as well as the children, were sold about among 
the other set of people, who made them do all 
their work. Those who bought and sold the 
others Avere the largest number, and the most 
powerful, and made all the laws. They made 
laws permitting themselves to do pretty much 
what they pleased to the other people. One 
law was that thee? last must never srive infor- 



mation to the judges of any crime committedi 
by one of the powerful class. And these poor 
bought-and-sold people were punished much 
more severely than the others were, if they 
did any thing wrong. 

Henry. I think the others treat them very 
shamefully, and cruelly, and unjustly ; but I 
suppose you will say that they are poor igno- 
rant heathens, who do not have the bible, and 
do not know any better. 

Father. Once Mr. A. saw several of the 
people, men and women, who had just been 
sold. They had chains on to prevent their 
running away, and were driven along by a man 
with a great whip, to the person's home who 
had bought them. Some of them were very 
unhappy, because they had just left their chil- 
dren, and their husbands or wives, and every 
body whom they knew and loved behind them, 
and were never to see them again. 

Mary. Father, I hope some good mission- 
aries will go there, and carry them the bible, 
and teach them to be good, and then they will 
leave off doing such wicked things. 

Father. I ought to tell you that these peo- 
ple are not as ignorant as the New Zealanders, 
and Society Islanders. Most of that part who 
buy and sell the others can read, and, you will 
be surprised to hear it, they have the bible 
among them ; but they will not allow the others 
to have it or to be taught to read. This is one 
of their strange laws. 

Henry. Oh, Father, I begin to think that I 
am afraid I know the name of the country.. 

Father. My dear children, the people who 
do these things are considered a civdized peo- 
ple, and are called Christians, and the country 
in Avhich these things are done is the Uwiteb 
States of America ! T. E. 



FREE PEOPLE OF COLOR. 

It is often made a subject of reproach to the 
people of color, that many of them are poor 
and ignorant; and that a greater proportion of 
them than of the whites are guilty of crimes. 
Taking these facts for granted, and even ex- 
aggerating them, a conclusion is drawn by too 
many persons that their cruel prejudices against 
the African race are justified, that all attempts 
to elevate and improve them oughtto be aban- 
doned, and that they ought all to be driven 
from among us as soon as possible. 

But this mode of reasoning is as weak as it 
Is unjust. 

Why is a larger proportion of the blacks 
than of the whites, to be found amongst the 
most indigent and depressed classes, — those 
classes, of course, from which most crimes 
proceed ? The ansAver is obvious. They have 
been slaves, or are the immediate descendants 



American Colonization Society. 



43 



of slaves. With but a few exceptions, there 
were no free blacks in the country fifty years 
ago. Is it strange, then, that they whose pa- 
rents were so recently slaves, the most degra- 
ded, despised, pool*, and ignorant part of the 
community, — should not have among them so 
great a proportion of the great, the Avise, the 
rich and the learned, as they who are descend- 
ed from more favored classes, especially when 
we recollect that the prejudice which was al- 
ways felt against negroes because they were 
slaves, has descended like a curse upon their 
free children ? 

If an observer could for a moment make the 
tide of time recede fifty years, and should se- 
lect the one hundred thousand most ignorant, 
poor, and abandoned white persons in the 
United States, and should then advance to the 
present time, and examine the survivors and 
their descendants, what proportion of them 
would he find enjoying the honors of wealth 
or rank, learning or virtue ? Though he would 
perhaps see that a few of the children had 
emerged from the unfortunate condition of 
their parents, and had become wealthy mer- 
chants, sagacious statesmen, learned judges, 
and pious ministers of the gospel, he would un- 
doubtedly find that a very large part of the 
whole number were still in the same deplora- 
ble state in %vhich he saw the fathers fifty 
years ago. 

Why should we expect people of color to 
shake off in a moment the load of poverty and 
ignorance which oppresses them, when no 
reasonable man would expect white persons 
to do it in the same situation ? 

When I consider the difficulties under v/hich 
the free people of color have all along labored 
in this country, — that they have always been 
regarded by the mass of the whites with scorn 
and contempt, — that in almost all the states 
they have suffered from unequal and oppres- 
sive laws directed against them by the preju- 
dices of the whites, — that they have been de- 
prived in a great measure of the usual means 
of education by the operation of these bar- 
barous prejudices, — and that in many places 
they have been debarred as far as possible 
from exercising, not only those employments 
which lead to wealth and reputation, but even 
those which give a moderate coinpetenay — 
when I consider these thingrs, • I am far from 
being surprised that many of the free people 
of color should be poor, vicious, and ignorant, 
— but I am surprised to find that many of them 



have risen up under all these disadvantages — 
that some have shown ability in v.-riting — that 
some have displayed talents in the pulpit — 
that some have acquired wealth by honest in- 
dustry, and many of them moderate compe- 
tencies — and that so many of them lead ex- 
emplary moral and religious lives. The exer- 
tions which the free people of color have made 
and are making, to improve themselves, com- 
mand my highest respect. When I see the 
associations which they have lately formed for 
this object, I see in these alone sufficient proof 
that they are not so degraded as they have 
been represented. 

In view of the facts to which I have alluded, 
what is the duty of every philanthropist and 
Christian towards these American descendants 
of Africa ? It is to aid and encourage all the 
efforts which they are making to elevate them- 
selves, — to banish from his own mind the un- 
worthy feelings v,'hich would lead him to re- 
gard any human being with contempt merely 
on account of his color ; and to teach his neigh- 
bors to follow his exam.ple. 

To the free people of color I would say, 
' As you have been subjected to remarkable 
persecution, let it render you examples^ of re- 
markable virtue. Persevere in all your efforts 
to improve yourselves and educate your chil- 
dren ; and doubt not that in time you or your 
descendants will live down all the bitter pre- 
judices of your enemies.' P. H. 



AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

The elements of discord which this Society 
contains within itself are, at length, in conflict. 
We venture to predict that the issue of this 
collision will be the secession of many mem- 
bers of the Society. The following account 
of the annual meeting of the Society is taken 
partly from the Boston Atlas, and partly from 
the New- York Moral Advertiser. The cor- 
respondents of both papers who give these 
accounts are apparently friends of the Society. 

' The last annual meeling of the Colonization Socie- 
t}' passed off, as usual, in a highly respectable manner, 
with able speaking-, addressed to a large, attentive and 
dignified audience. Near the close of the meeting, the 
Secretary presented to the chainnan a list of names 
for a committee to appoint the officers of the Society, 
telling him at the time that he presented it on his own 
responsibility. The committee were named according- 
ly, and the Secretary among the number. They oniit- 
ted one of the old Managers, raised three or four more 
to the Vice Presidency of the Society, among whom 
were two or three of the most influential men in the 
District. The officers were so elected; and a new 
Constitution was also presented to the Society, which 
had been drafted by the Secretary without the concur- 



44 



American Colonization Society. 



rence of the Board of Manag'ers, and the consideration 
of this was deferred to an adjourned meeting of tlie 
Society. In the interim, the ejected Manager, assist- 
ed to an unknown extent by the \"ice Presidents elect, 
who were also dissatisfied, succeeded in geldiigup the 
elements of a tempest. It was told that there was a 
secret combination to let in the North to overshadow 
and blast the peace of the South through the channel 
of the Colonization Society; and dial the Secretar}' 
and the friends of the new officers and new Constitu- 
tion, were radical abolitionists, ready to seize on the 
Society for (ho jjurpose of metamorphosing it into a 
machine for breaking the fetters of the slave popula- 
tion. Tile adjourned meeting was truly boisterous, 
and was continued to about midnight, as were both the 
subsequent meetings. Scraping and brow-beating 
and calling to order prevailed throughout the eve- 
ning. 

' The next, or third meeting of the Society, was very 
large, and very stormy. The soft and melodious 
Voices of Messrs. Frelinghuysen and Mr. Everett, were 
occasionally heard, assuasive as oil upon the raging 
waves, with an evident, but a momentary effect. A 
lunatic got up in the course of the evening, maintained 
his footing, and made quite an amusing speech, part of 
which very aptly related to throwing cold water. The 
new Constitution was brong'ht forward, very little 
amended by a committee, of whom Mr. Frelinghuysen 
was one ; — and at the close of the meeting the whole 
business Was referred to a most respectable committee, 
composed almost wholly of the two gentlemen already 
named, and other eminent Members of Congress.' 

At the next iiieeting, the committee re- 
ported — . 

' The honorable committee cntirel}' exonerated from 
blame all who had been instrumental in the changes 
made in the officers; but said, "that suspicions had 
been extensively circulated, the effect of which was to 
throw odium on the Society at the South, by represent- 
ing the change of officers as an eftbrt to alter the poHcij 
of the Society, and make it an abolitionist Society, en- 
tirely contrary to the constitution of the Society, which 
limits the Society's operations to the removal, with 
their consent, of the y/'ee people of color. The com- 
mittee were, therefore, unanimous in recommending to 
the members recently elected, to resign their seats, and 
that the Board of Managers continue this j'ear as last." 
The Secretary of the Society, who is a talented philan- 
thropist, made a most touching appeal, shewing Uie 
simplicity of his vievi's and the correctness of his con- 
duct. It must, I think, have vibrated through every 
heart. General Mercer, Right Rev. Bishop Meade, 
of Virginia, and other gentlemen, all deeply interested 
in the cause of African Colonization, spoke feelingly 
on the importance of pursuing such a course as should 
continue to secure the contidence ofUie South, which 
eould by no means be done, if the Society had but the 
least appearajzee of abolition. On the other hand, it 
was strongly contended, that the founders of the So- 
i"'iet_y had in the establishment of it abolition as a re- 
mote object ;-^and that this object ought by no means 
to be lost sight of, &c. &c. 

' I am persuaded that the Colonization Society can 
never succeed in reconciling' these two opposite inter- 
ests ; for it cannot be cUsgtnscd that slaveholders, sav- 
ing a few solitaiy philanthropic exceptions, regard the 
Colonization Society as a means of ridding the country 
of a troublesome class of blacks, and also as affording 
an opportunity for mairiduah so disposed, to give 
freedom to their slaves. Northern colonizationists, 
however, look on the Colonization Society as tending 
indirectly to the utter overthro-o of slavery in the Uni- 
ted States. The good of Africa is, indeed, in their 
estimation, one item in tlie account, and but one. 
Northern men will never go far in advocating any So- 
ciety, which in its tendencies only rivets stronger the 
chains of slavery.' 



It appears from the Atlas that the debate at 

the last meeting was as 'stormy as eVer.' 

' About midnight the vote was taken on the Report, 
in a forced and disorderly manner. It was adopted by 
a bare majoiity ; and some who counted say it was 
not adopted at all, notwithstanding the immense influ-' 
ence in its favor, aided in no small degree b}' Bishop 
Meade, appealing in his solemn manner to the con- 
sciences of all, and to the gospel of peace. Thus the 
tumult, so far at least as relates io public discussion^ 
was silenced till the next annual meeting of the Socie- 
ty.' 

What the changes proposed in the constitu- 
tion were does not appear. The correspondent 
of the Atlas states that the present ' constitu- 
tion admits all the officers of auxiliary societies, 
amounting in the North to about 1000, to vote 
at all meetings both of the Society and Board 
of Managers, and also every person paying a 
dollar annually, amounting in the North to 20 
or 30,000, to vote at all meetings of the So- 
ciety, embracing the change of the Constitu- 
tion and the election of Officers ; ' and that the 
proposed Constitution makes some great 
change in this arrangement. 

From the foregoing account, it appears very 
clearly that there are two classes of members 
in the Colonization Society, whose views are 
diametrically opposed to one another. One 
party supports the Society because they be- 
lieve its measures tend to the final abolition 
of slavery, and another, principally slavehold- 
ers, because they think that the removal of the 
free blacks will render their property in their 
slaves inore secure. These two parties have 
always existed in the Society, and an open 
rupture between them has only been prevent- 
ed by very cautious, we had almost said cun- 
ning, management on the part of its conduct- 
ors, by holding up one view of its design and 
objects at the South, and another at the North. 
We feel confident that the present crisis in 
the affairs of the Society will lead conscientious 
men to consider, not only what are its avowed 
pretensions, but the real character and tenden- 
cy of its measures. To such men we propose 
the following questions : 

1. Would not the removal of a portion of 
free laborers from any country, tend to raise 
the price of labor there ? For instance, would 
not the removal of ten thousand agricultural 
laborers from Massachusetts, tend to raise the 
price of agricultural labor in that State ? 

2. Would not the removal of slaves from a 
slave State tend to raise the price or value of 
the remaining slaves ? Thus, would not re- 
moving ten thousand slaves firom Louisiana, 
increase the value of all who were left there ? 



Massachusetts Colonization Society, 



45 



Does not, in fact, the sale and removal of five 
Or six thousand slaves a year from Virginia to 
other Southern States keep up the price of the 
remaining- slaves there ? 

3. Does not raising the value of slaves tend 
lo check their manumission ? 

4. Ought a Society to be encouraged, whose 
operations tend to raise the price of slaves, 
and thus to diminish manumissions, especially 
when the more successful the Society is, the 
strongef will be that tendency ? 

5. Is not the African Repository the organ 
of the Colonization Society? 

6. Is not that book full of slanderous abuse 
of the free people of color ? 

7. Does not such abuse tend to increase the 
prejudices against the free people of color, 
and thus to render their situation here more 
uncomfortable ? 

8. Is there one free person of color in a 
hundred, in the United States, who does not 
regard the Colonization Society as the great- 
est enemy of his race ? 

9. Has not the Colonization Society, in one 
■of its Annual Reports, applauded a proposed 
compulsory deportation of the free people of 
color. 

10. Is it just to expel the free people of 
color from this country ? 

11. Can any conscientious man support a 
Society, which approves of compelling the free 
people of color to quit this country by force, 
either moral or physical ? 

12. Is it not one of the fundamental princi- 
ples of the Colonization Society, thn.t property 
in slaves is sacred, like other property ? Is it 
not reiterated in its annual reports, the speech- 
es of its members and agents, and the lucubra- 
tions of its periodical ? 

13. Does not the expression, that property 
is sacred, mean that its OAvners ougjit not to be 
■deprived of it by legislation, or any other 
means ? and does it not imply that such prop- 
erty is rightful ? 

14. Does a Society deserve the patronage 
of Christians, which holds that the legislatures 
of the states have not a right to declare that 
men shall cease to be held as property, with- 
out paying a compensation to their owners ? 
and which maintains that man may have a 
rightful property in man ? 

We wish that fair minded men who are in- 
clined to favor the Society, would consider 
these questions deliberately and candidly. Let 
them take nothing for granted, but examine 



for themselves the publications of the Society. 
For ourselves, we feel compelled to declare, 
that though we have the highest respect for 
the character and motives of many of its mem- 
bers, yet we hold the principles which it sup- 
ports, and the measures which it pursues, in 
utter abhorrence. And we cannot but feel 
deep regret that such men should be so delu- 
ded as to support such an institution. 



MASSACHUSETTS COLONIZATION SOCIE- 
TY. 

The second annual meeting of this Society 

was held in Park-street Church, in Boston, on 

the 7th ultimo. Resolutions were offered and 

sustained by the Hon. A. H. Everett, William 

Ladd, Esq., Rev. Mr. Stowe, and Rev. Mr. 

Blagden, — all in support of the objects of the 

Pardnt Society. From the speech of Mr. 

Everett, we make a single extract : 

' At first he was not so favorably impressed towards 
the Colonization Society, as he had since become by 
inquiring- into its objects. Having understood its prin- 
cipal object to be the removal of the blacks to Africa, 
he had doubted the expediency of it; and so far as the 
efiibrt to remove the blacks was concerned, he still en- 
tertained those doubts. He did not see any probabil- 
ity of making anj' great impression on the mass of the 
black population, by the annual removals which this 
Society could ever acconiplish. If we could remove 
the prejudices which exist against the blacks, and se- 
cure to them the advantages enjoyed by other classes, 
there was nothing to prevent their becoming useful 
citizens. We do not want to remove them from the j 
country because they are not wanted here, or because 
our population is crowded. There is room and verge 
enough for all the population we now have, and that 
will be likely to come to us, from other countries, for 
a century.' 

The remarks of the Rev. Mr. Stowe had 
little to do with the merits of the Colonization 
Society — they were fanciful and discursive, 
showing what Africa had been, what she now 
is, and what she anight be, by the influence of 
the gospel and civilization. He concluded 
with the strong assertion that ' whoever oppo- 
sed the Colonization Society, so far opposed 
Christianity ' ! ! ! 

The Rev. Mr. Blagden's speech, in many 
points, was highly reprehensible. He avowed 
himself the enemy of immediate abolition. 

The following- singular resolution was offer- 
ed by the Hon. Caleb Cushing. 

Resolved, That every patriotic and peaceful citizen 
of the United States, while he seeks by suitable means 
to better the condition of our colored population, 
should anxiouslj' abstain from acts inconsistent with 
the text or spirit of the Federal Constitution, and 
which have a tendency therefore to introduce into the 
country general evils of incalculable magnitude, and at , 
the same time defeat all the benevolent designs in be- 
half of the blacks by subverting the union of the states. 

Comment is unnecessary. ' 



46 



Moral Effects of the Slave System. — Cost of the Jamaica Rebellion. 



SLAVERY IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 
From the Anti-Slaverrj Reporter, a London 
monthly pnbhcation, we receive much vakia- 
ble intelligence as to the state of slavery in 
these Islands, and the progress of public opin- 
ion in Great Britain on the question of aboli- 
tion. From this ably conducted work Ave shall 
from time to time make such extracts as Ave 
think v/ill be interesting to our readers. 



MORAL EFFECTS OF THE SLA\TE SYSTEM. 

From the folloAving return of the numbers 
of Baptisms in the Isl&nd of Jamaica, it ap- 
pears that the number of legitimate children 
baptised in that Island, is little more than one 
third of the illegitimate. This account, taken 
from the Registry in the Bishop's office in 
Spanish toAvn, is, as the Anti-Slavery Report- 
er informs us, ' confined to the free, there being 
no slave children that can be called legitimate.' 
The general licentiousness of manners which 
this table indicates has its origin in slavery. 

Return of Baptisms in Jamaica, from the 1st 
January to the 21st Decemher, 1830. 



lUes'itimate. Lesfitimate. Total. 



St. Catharine, 

St. John, 

St. Dorothy', 

St. Thomas in the Vale, 

Clarendon, 

Vere, 

Manchester, 

St. Mary, 

St. Ann's, 

Kingston, 

Port Royal, 

St. Andrew, 

Portland, 

St. Thomas in the East, 

St. David, 

St. George, 

St. Elizabeth, 

Westmoreland, 

Trelawnj', 

Hanover, 

St. James, 

Total 



78 


34 


112 


7 


5 


12 


5 


2 


7 


8 


6 


14 


23 


9 


32 


7 


5 


12 


53 


7 


60 


25 


11 


36 


37 


12 


49 


174 


109 


283 


25 


24 


49 


37 


38 


75 


40 


5 


45 


35 


9 


44 


9 


2 


11 


13 


7 


20 


116 


28 


144 


49 


12 


61 


84 


26 


110 


21 


11 


32 


112 


18 


130 


958 


380 


1338 



LOSS OCCASIONED BY THE LATE REBEL- 
LION IN JAMAICA. 

The following extract is from a report of 
a Committee of the House of Assembly of Ja- 
maica. No commentaiy of ours could add to 
the Aveight of such an argument for immediate 
abolition. 

'Your Committee further report that the 
injury sustained by the late rebellion, by the 
slaves wilfully setting fire to buildings, grass 
and cane fields destroyed, robbery and plun- 



der of every description, damage done to the 
present and succeeding crops, loss of the la- 
bor of slaves, besides those killed in suppress- 
ing such rebellion, and executed after trial, as 
incendiaries, rebels and murderers, has been 
ascertained by means of Commissioners ap- 
pointed under an order of the House, and by 
the detailed retm-ns made to the Committee, 
in conformity Avith such order, to amount to 
the folloAving sums of money, viz. — 

In the parish of St. James, the sum of £606,250 
In the parish of Hanover, the sum of 425,810 15 
In the parish of Westmoreland, the sum of 47,092 
In the parish of St. Elizabeth, the sum of 22,146 9 7 
In the parish of Trelawny, the sum of 4,960 7 6 
Amomit of injury sustained in the — ^— — 

comity of Cornwall 1,106,259 12 1 

In the parish of Manchester, 

the sum of 46,270 

Amount of injury sustained in the county 

of Middlesex 46,270 

In the parish of Portland, 

the sum of 772 10 

In the Parish of St. Thomas 

in the East 1,280 

Amount of injury sustained in the county 

of Surrey 2,053 10 



£1,164,583 2 I 



'To which is to be added the sum of 
£161,596. 19s. 9d., being the expense incur- 
red in suppressing the late rebellion, and a 
further expense, not yet ascertained, Avhich 
has accrued since martial lar^^ ceased, being 
the pay and rations of a portion of the Ma- 
roons, as well as detachments of the island 
militia employed in the pursuit of such of the 
rebellious slaves who have not surrendered 
themselves, but remain out, and are sheltered 
amongst the almost inaccessible forests and 
fastnesses in the interior districts of the island.' 



COLORED LEGISLATORS. 

Our readers Avill be gratified to find from 
the foUoAving piece of intelligence the rapid 
advance which the free colored people of Ja- 
maica are maldng. Their success is a sure 
omen of the speedy extinction of slavery in 
that Island. 

' One of the first fruits of the recent emancipation of 
the free blacks and colored inhabitants of Jamaica, 
from the civil and political disabilities under which 
they had groaned so long, has been the return, on the 
occurrence of two vacancies in the House of Assem- 
bly, of two gentlemen of color, namelj", Blr. Price 
Watkis, a barrister, for the city of Kingston, and Mr. 
Manderson, for the populous and wealthy Parish of 
St. James. The first vote given by Mr. Watkis was 
in support of an unsuccessful motion to adopt a com- 
pulsory manumission law for that island. He stood in 
a small minority, it is true ; but the battle of freedom 
has been commenced in the very strongest hold of sla- 
very 5 and its final triumph cannot be doubted.' 



FREEDOM OF THE PRESS IN SLAVE COUN- 
TRIES. 
There is an act of the legislature of Jamaica 
Avhich declares that, ' if any person shall ma- 



Cause of the llebeUion in Jamaica. — Tke Dying Slave. 



47 



liciously and advisedly endeavoi" to excite, or 
stir up, any free person or slave to commit any 
act of insurrection or rebellion, he shall be 
deemed and adjiid<>'cd to be guilty of felony, 
and shall sufler death, without benefit of 
clergy.' 

Under this act Mr. Jordon, the Editor of the 
Watchman, was on the 17th of April last tried 
capitally, for having, in his paper of the 7th 
of the same month, used the following lan- 
guage : — 'Now that the member of West- 
moreland (Mr. Beaumont) is on our side, we 
shall be happy, with him and the other triends 
of humanity, to give a long pull, a strong pull, 
and a pull altogether, until we bring down 
the system by the ran, knock off the fetters, 
and let the oppressed go free.' 

He seems to have been saved from the mar- 
tyrdom intended for him, as the enemy of sla- 
very, and the friend of missions and missiona- 
ries, only by a failure in the proof of editor- 
ship on the day laid in the indictment. — ^nti- 
Slavery Reporter. 



CAUSE OF THE REBELLION IN JAMAICA. 

The cause of the recent rebellion in Jamaica 
which the advocates of slavery have charged 
upon the discussion of the question of abolition 
in England, is satisfactorily pointed out by the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter in the following ex- 
tract from a Kingston (Ja.) paper. 

' We have endeavored to ascertain the causes which 
led to the disturbances in St. James, and find that an 
attempt to deprive the negroes of two of their hoHdays, 
is the principal, if not the only one. Christmas day 
was Sunday. This latter is unquestionably the pro- 
perty of the slave. They were therefore entitled to 
Monday, Tuesdaj' and Wednesday, and it was an at- 
tempt to deprive them of the two last named, that led 
to the disagreeable results which all must lament.'^ 
This view of the subject is borne out by the circum- 
stances of Colonel Lawson's letter being dated the 28th, 
(Wednesday,) a circumstance, in itself, sufficient to 
justify the conclusion, that attempts had been made on 
the previous day, (Tuesday,) to compel the negroes to 
work. If our views be correct, it is easy to perceive 
on whom the blame ou£>ht to rest.' 



full 



[From the Genius of Universal Emancipation.] 
THE DYING SLAVE. 

' I was in the right mood for it, and so I 
scope to my imagination.' 

He lay on a straw couch, with his face half 
turned towards the sinking sun. 'The skin was 
drawn tightly over his forehead, as though it 
was parched and shrunken by extreme age ; 
but the restless and uneasy wanderings of his 
eye told that he still claimed some compan- 
ionship with earthly feelings. 

He was a slave ; and for more than an hun- 
dred years he had gone forth to the daily toil 
of a bondman. It was said that in the ' father 
land,' from which he had been torn by unprin- 
cipled violence, he had been a prince among 
his people. In the first days of his slavery, he | freedom, and expired. 



had been fierce and ungovernable, nor could 
his haughty spirit ever be tamed into subjec- 
tion untd it had been subdued by gratitude. 
The lather of his present master had in his 
childhood, by interfering to save him from 
punisinncnt, received on his own body the 
blows intended for the slave ; and from that 
moment he became to his youthful master a 
devoted servant. The child had grown up to 
manhood, flourished throughout his term of 
years, and faded away into the grave, but still 
the aged Afric lingered upon the earth; and 
it was for the son of that man that he now 
waited, and, to use his own expression, ' held 
back his breath,' until he should behold him. 

At length the light of the low cabin door 
was darkened, as the master stooped his tall 
form to enter the dwelling of his slave. I have 
come, said he, as he approaehed, what would 
you with me ? 

The negro raised himself up with a sudden 
energy, and stretched out his withered hand. 
Have I not borne you in my arms in your 
helpless infancy, said he, and should I not 
once more behold you before I die ? Heed 
me, master! ere yon sun shall set, the last 
breath will have passed my lips — its beams are 
fast growing more aslant and yellower — tell 
me, before I die, if I have not served you faith- 
fully ? 

You have !■ 

I have been honest and true — I have never 
spoken to you a falsehood — I have never de- 
served the lash ? 

To my knowledge, never! said his master. 
Then there is but one more boon that I 
would crave of you ;- — I am going home, — to 
revisit the scenes of my youth — to mingle with 
the spirits of my friends [ Suffer me not to 
return to them a slave ! My fathers were 
proud chieftains among their native wilds — 
they sought out the lion in the midst of his 
secret recesses — they subdued the strength of 
the savage tiger — they were conquerors in 
battle — they never bovi^ed to man — they would 
spurn a bondman from their halls ! Oh, tell 
me, exclaimed he, seizing his master's hand in 
the rising excitement of his feelings ; — oh, tell 
me, while I may yet hear the sound, that I am 
once more free ! 

Your Mash is granted, said his master ; you 
are a freeman. 

A freeman ! repeated the negro, sloAvly sink- 
ing back upon his couch, and clasping his 
hands above his head with all his remaining 
energy— write it for me, master ! 

The gentleman tore a leaf from his pocket 
book, and pencilling a hasty certificate of his 
freedom, handed it to the slave. The old man 
lifted up his head once more as he received 
it, and the last ray of sunlight streamed across 
his countenance, as Avith a strange smile he 
gazed upon the paper ; then falling suddenly 
back, he once more repeated the name of 



48 



The White Infanfs Reply. — The Lament. — Chistian Love. 



[From the Liberator.] 
THE WHITE INFANT'S REPLY 

TO THE LITTLE SLAVE. 

With many a smile and tear I read 

Your prett3' letter, dear ; 
, A smile to think you loved me so, 
And for your griefs a tear. 

My mother read your letter too, 

A tear fell from her eye ; 
She wished I might have power to break 

Your chains before I die. 

As I lay thinking on her words, 
And what they all could mean. 

Sleep gently pressed mj' e3'elids down, 
And nought around was seen. 

And as I slept I had a dream, 

Which I will tell to you ; 
I dreamed that I had grown a man. 

And you a man were too. 

I thought we loved each other then, 

As well as we do now ; 
But I thought that you looked very sad. 

And wore a mournful brow. 

There came an ugly, cruel man, 

And put on 3'ou a chain, 
And lashed you with a cruel whip, 

And made 3'ou suffer pain. 

And then I tried to break that chain, 

And earnest efforts made ; 
But the chain was much too strong for me, 

So I called aloud for aid. 

I thought because I was a man, 

My voice was very loud ; 
And all the country heard my call, 

And I felt glad and proud. 

Then all good people of the land 
To help me came with speed ; 

There was not one of all the good, 
But to my call gave heed. 

That cruel whip we soon destroyed, 

That heavy chain we broke ; 
The breaking made so loud a noise, 

I started, and awoke. 

And then I thought upon my dream. 

And on that cruel chain. 
And wondered if I e'er should see 

Such frightful things again. 

And then I fixed it in my mind. 

If when we both are men. 
Such things should reall3- come to pass, 

I '11 do as I did then. 

My voice, it shall be heard 
Throughout this mighty land ; 

For sure I am that all the good 
Will help me heart and hand. 

Farewell, dear bab3-, love me still 

As well as I love you ; 
I ever through my life shall be 

Thy friencl sincere and true. 



C. T. E. 



[From the Genius of Universal Emancipation.] 

LAMENT. 
Wo for our country's guilt I 
The glory has departed from her brow. 
And shame and infamy are round her now 3 

The blood her hand hath spilt, 
Cries out against her from the smoking plain, 
Yet warm and reeking with the crimson stain, 



The shame of broken faith, 
Of solemn treaties turr.'d to mockery, 
And the strong pledge of friendship made a lie. 

And unregarded breath — 
This blot is resting on her tainted name, 
A mildew to the brightness of her fame. 

Wo for her forest sons ! 
Whom she hath cast into their brother's hand. 
To 'be thrust forth sad wanderers o'er the land, 

The3' and their little ones, 
Their mothers and their wives, amidst the wild. 
To bear the thought how fair their lost home smiled. 

They leaned in their deep trust, 
Upon her solemn vows, and found too late, 
In their crushed hopes, and their inost bitter fate, 

Her oaths were as the dust 5 
Her seeming friendship but a mask to hide 
Her ingrate perfidy, her gLiilt3' pride. 

Wo for the dark brow'd slave ! 
Bow'd to the dust 'neath her relentless hand. 
And stamped with foul oppression's hateful brand. 

He passes to the grave, 
Before the Judgment Seat of Heaven to bear 
The tale of all his wrongs and his despair. 

Alas ! alas, for her ! 
How can she bear the searching e3'e of God, 
Bent in its justice on her crimson sod — 

She a vile murderer ! 
How dare she lift her hand to Heaven to pray. 
Till she hatk cast her cherish'd sins away ! 

Yet how with pealing shout, 
And cannons' roar, and trump, and deep-voiced bells. 
Of her own glor3' to the world she tells ! 

Ah ! better would it suit 
Her cheek, instead of the proud flush it wears. 
To be washed pale with penitential tears ! 

GERTRUDE. 



CHRISTIAN LOVE. 

Oh Father, vi'hen the soften'd heart 

Is lifted up in prayer to Thee, 
When earthly thoughts awhile depart. 

And leave the mounting spirit free — 
Then teach us that our love, like Thine, 

O'er all the realms of earth should flow, 
A shoreless stream, a flood divine. 

To bathe and heal the heart of wo. 

Then Afric's son shall hear no more 

The tyrant's, in the christian's name, 
Nor tears of wasting anguish pour, 

Unpitied o'er his life of shame. 
But taught to love Thee, by the love 

That bids his loiig-worn fetters break, - 
He too shall lift his soul above, 

And serve Thee for thy mercy's sake. 
[Idem.] AGNES. 



Depreciation of Property in Jamaica. — 
Sales have been attempted of the following estates : — 
Temple Hall, with two hundred and forty slaves, 
which cost a few years since fifty thousand pounds, 
was bid in, eight thousand only having been offered 
for it 5 Pleasant Hill, a coffee estate with two hundred 
and sixty-nine slaves, which cost a few years since 
one hundred thousand pounds, was bid in, onl3' ten 
thousand offered ! — So much for the labors of aboli- 
tionists in the mother country ! 



0= The Treasurer of the New-England Anti-Slave- 
ry Society acknowledges the receipt of ^3,79 as a 
contribution from the Rev. Philemon R. Russell's So- 
ciety in Watertown, Mass. 



