res. ISii.s- ►'•a- "^-^ 



THE SPEECH 



OF 



THE EARL OF MULGRAVE, 



^c. Sfc. Sfc, 



DELIVERED AT FREEMASONS' HALL, 



ON FRIDAY, THE 1st OF AUGUST, 1834. 



AT A PUBLIC DINNER OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY IN CELEBRATION OF THE DAY. 



LONDON: 
HATCHARD AND SON, 187, PICCADILLY. 

1834. 



res.. IS 7H-'o v.A rto. fc 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY SAMUEL BAGSTER, JUN„ 

14, Bartholomew Close, 



r 



The following powerful and most impressive address was de- 
livered by Lord Mulgrave, at the dinner at Freemasons' Hall, on 
the 1st of August, 1834, in commemoration of the Abolition of 
Colonial Slavery, on which occasion his Lordship presided. It is 
published by the British and Foreign Society for the Abolition of 
Slavery. The Committee of that Society requested his Lordship's 
permission to publish it, from a persuasion that it will not only be 
very satisfactory to the Anti-Slavery public to receive this high 
testimony to the truth and justice of that great cause, which by 
God's assistance their energy carried, but most useful in the pro- 
secution of the same important work in other countries, by bring- 
ing conviction home to the minds of all reflecting men, that slavery 
is a state incapable of amelioration, and most prejudicial even to 
the temporal interests of every state where it obtains. 

To this request his lordship kindly acceded in the following 
terms : — 

Dear Sir, 

It is impossible for me to refuse to comply with your request, when you 
state your belief and that of the Society, that by acceding to it, I may even 
now still further extend my career of usefulness in the good cause. 

I the more readily consent, because I am not conscious that in what I 
then stated, there was one word calculated to hurt the feelings of any 
individual, or indeed of any set of men. It was certainly, on every account, 
my desire on that occasion to avoid doing so. I should indeed have been 
an unworthy witness if I could have been lukewarm in the expression of my 
abhorrence of the system of slavery, and of my convicfion of its inevitable 
evils. But not only do I retain a grateful recollection of the justice done to 
my motives at the time of my departure from Jamaica, by most of those to 
whom my proceedings had necessarily been unpalatable, but I also gladly 
availed myself of this public occasion to acknowledge the invaluable assist- 
ance I had derived from some persons there whom I highly esteem : and I 
could not impress upon those who heard me, more strongly than I feel it, 
the importance that for the future we should take that course most likely to 
ensure the cordial co-operation of all classes, on the spot, in promoting the 
success of the great measure. 

I am, dear Sir, yours very faithfully. 
Clarendon Hotel, August 2nd. Mulgrave. 

To George Stephen, Esq. 
Chairman of the British and Foreign Society for the Abolition of Slavery. 



It never can be forgotten, that of all the difficulties with which 
the abolitionists had to contend, their greatest was the seeming in- 
credibility of their case. " You prove too much," was the constant 
answer of every superficial disputant : a predisposition to distrust 
was thus created by the very magnitude of the atrocities that were 
quoted to excite feelings of sympathy and obtain co-operation. 
Their colonial opponents took advantage of this incredulity, in two 
ways. 

They denied in toto the crimes that were charged upon them, 
and they affected a cheerful disposition to concede the necessity 
of removing all minor grievances. By this ingenious system 
of tactics they worked powerfully upon that love of moderation 
and fair play for which our countrymen are proverbial ; they 
contrived to represent themselves as men who were unfairly treated 
and cruelly traduced ; hence many " took their part," and repro- 
bated what they were pleased to term " the pious hypocrisy" or 
''intemperate zeal" of their plain-speaking antagonists. 

So successful were these West Indian manoeuvres, that they too 
often entangled some of the sincerest abolitionists in a timorous 
and over-cautious policy : it was at one time a favourite position, 
that general principles of policy and humanity were the only 
weapons v/hich could be conveniently used; and hence 2\\ political 
opponents, and all who considered that the rights of property, 
however equivocal its character, were to be preferred to the claims 
of humanity, ranged themselves, as of course, on the colonial side. 
It was not until the appointment of the Lords' Committee that 
the truth began to discover itself to the country : it then gradually 
came out that as this system of slavery was one of unqualified 
horror arid oppression, so the representations by which it was upheld, 
were a tissue of lies, unscrupulously sustained by perjury ; it was 
not by anti-colonial evidence that this was made apparent — it was 
established on the spontaneous, well-arranged, and preconcerted 
testimony of the West Indians themselves : they volunteered ex- 
amination, they courted inquiry, and they audaciously appealed 
to the country at large to try the issue ; out of their own mouths 
they were condemned as lying prophets. 

But still it is long before the morning mist leaves the horizon 
clear ; comparatively but a few gave themselves the trouble of 



analyzing the colonial evidence, and stubborn even to the last, the 
colonial body reiterated their self-convicted falsehoods, upon the 
hustings and in parliament ; it may be doubted, even after the 
Abolition Bill had passed the legislature, whether the country was 
entirely satisfied of the honesty and truth of the abolition party. 
Thanks to the noble Lord, the author of the following speech, that 
point is set at rest for ever. Justice has been eventually, if not 
immediately done, by the legislature to the slave, and now his 
Lordship has secured equal justice to his advocate. 

It is not, however, for the sake of exultation that it is felt to be 
right to give these pages to the world, nor merely to do grateful 
justice to the eloquence with which Lord Mulgrave has vindicated 
the anti-slavery character ; — we are entitled to infer from our 
experience, that recourse will be had elsewhere to the same in- 
sidious means which so long retarded success with ourselves ; the 
abolitionists in all countries will be stigmatized and belied by the 
slave-holder ; facts will be distorted, cruelties will be suppressed, and 
a disposition to ameliorate will be affected, whenever and wherever the 
emancipation of the slave becomes a question of popular discussion. 
In this view his Lordship's testimony is more valuable than if it had 
been given while the controversy was pending : it is a confirmation 
of anti-slavery truth, necessarily divested of all interested or party 
character. A Cabinet Minister, not less respected for his private 
than his public worth, gifted with no ordinary portion of discern- 
ment, and not committed at any time by previous pledges or 
avowed prejudices, himself an eye-witness of the system, under 
circumstances the most favourable for observation, and bearing the 
strongest testimony of the equity, liberality, and honour, of his 
colonial administration, in returning from it with the love and 
respect of all classes subject to his government, presents him- 
self on the first convenient occasion to the British public, as a 
witness to the truth, that slavery admits of no amelioration, and 
must be absolutely and entirely abolished by all who wish well to 
their country and themselves ; that it may be safely abolished with- 
out hazarding property or endangering life ; that the slaves them- 
selves, even in their degraded condition, and before the bonds are 
loosened from their limbs, are capable of appreciating as the most 



valued fruits of liberty, respect to their females and instruction to 
their offspring' ! 

We do indeed gratefully and respectfully thank his Lordship for 
the justice which, as abolitionists, he has done ourselves ; but yet 
more grateful do we feel for the manliness and the liberality with 
which he has done justice to the Negro character, and for the 
powerful assistance which he has thereby given to the cause of 
emancipation throughout the world. 

After the usual toasts had been given, Mr. Buxton requested 
his Lordship to communicate to the company the results of his 
colonial experience on the question of emancipation, when he 
spoke as follows, under frequent interruptions of acclamatory 
applause, which for more convenient reading we have omitted. 

Having been called upon by my honourable friend near 
me to detail to you any facts bearing upon the success of the 
great measure we are this day met to celebrate, which may 
have come under my observation during my residence in 
Jamaica, I must at once state, that if I am in any respect an 
unwilling witness, it is only that I am at this moment thus 
obliged to interrupt the pleasure which you must always 
derive from listening to my honourable friend ; and must thus, 
at least for a short time, postpone that enthusiasm with which 
I am sure you will all receive the toast which he has an- 
nounced it to be his intention to propose. 

Before, however, I proceed to endeavour, as shortly as 
possible, to execute the task my honourable friend has im- 
posed upon me, I think that in the first place, considering 
the intense interest I have always felt in this question, 
and the part I was allotted to bear in all its earlier stages, 
some explanation is necessary why I am here to-day. 
Being in England, it is indeed natural that I should be most 
anxious to pass this day in the midst of those with whose 
joyful feelings I can most cordially sympathize, as to that 
glorious event which must ever endear it to our recollections ; 
but, having in the most important of our colonies conducted. 



up to a certain period, all the preliminary measures, and 
ensured their adoption, why did I not prefer passing this day 
amongst those glad and grateful countenances which now 
are beaming for the first time with the new light and glorious 
life of freedom, only reflected here in the borrowed rays of 
sympathetic benevolence ? But the fact was that the choice 
was not in my own power. I had no alternative. I do not mean 
that the government wished my return — quite the contrary ; 
but that labour and anxiety in that enervating climate, had 
reduced me to such a state of broken health as imposed upon 
my medical attendants the responsibility of urging my imme 
diate departure, and convinced me of the necessity of yielding 
to their advice. I do not say, considering the personal sacri- 
fices of every kind which a residence there entails, that I would 
even otherwise willingly have remained much longer, after 
having effected the great object which had induced me to 
undertake the government; but I would certainly at least 
have staid till this great epoch had passed. Thankful as I 
am to Providence that my health is now sufficiently restored, 
to enable me to share in your festivities and to participate in 
your feelings, I feel that when you are met here, as free-born 
Englishmen, to celebrate one of the proudest days in the 
annals of your country, that you have a right, considering 
how peculiarly situated I have been, to expect something from 
me beyond the usual set phrases of an after dinner address. 

My honourable friend has called upon me as a witness of 
what I saw in Jamaica ; not that I am here to state any act 
of my own as governor, whilst I remained in that island, but 
as a witness of important events which were passing there — 
as a witness also of the feeling which I saw then exhibited by 
the black and white population, I may be permitted to give 
my testimony. I think also you would like to know what my 
opinion is with regard to the great experiment which is now 
for the first time about to be tried in the West Indies, and 
more particularly with reference to that important portion of 
our colonial possessions there, over which I was appointed to 



preside, and as to the moral and political situation of which I 
may fairly be presumed to be in some degree acquainted. As I 
before said, there are many circumstances which I witnessed 
in Jamaica on which it is not my intention to dwell, because 
I consider it would be unwise at the present moment to revive 
topics of an unpleasant or exciting nature. I must, however, 
be permitted to observe, that notwithstanding all that has 
been said by the supporters of slavery, as to the improved 
condition of the slaves under what was called the ameliorated 
system, I am bound to declare that up to the passing of the 
Bill the condition of slavery was revolting to the sight, and 
harrowing to the feelings, tending alike to corrupt the 
nature of the owner, and degrade the character of his 
human chattels ; and such, in spite of humane regulations 
on the part of many influential individuals, were the abuses 
practised, that any partial enactment which the legislature 
of this country might have devised, would have been wholly 
inadequate to eradicate the evils arising inevitably from 
the very nature of the system. Take this then as the deli- 
berately formed, but the uncompromising opinion, of one 
who will at least claim for himself the character of a patient 
inquirer, an anxious observer, an impartial eye-witness, that 
slavery is incapable of any really beneficial amelioration short 
of utter extinction. I will say further, that if by any unfor- 
tunate circumstances, the great and comprehensive measure 
which the Parliament in their wisdom and their justice have 
passed, had been defeated or even deferred, confusion and ruin 
would have ensued in the colonies. Indeed I feel morally 
assured, that the state of things which I witnessed on my 
arrival in Jamaica, two years ago, could not have continued 
without some violent commotion, which recent events have 
happily averted. 

But before I proceed to allude to what was the condition of 
that fine island but two years ago — (which I shall do as lightly 
as possible, and merely to derive additional hope from that 
alteration which has since taken place, almost as much, I 



9 

think, in the feeUngs of the Whites as in the condition of the 
Blacks) — I would in the first place state to you how the 
announcement of the projected change was received by the 
Negroes whom I addressed on the subject, on various occa- 
sions, during a tour undertaken for that purpose seven months 
since. My object was, of course, to explain to them — who 
had been so often deceived as to make suspicion almost an 
invariable characteristic amongst them — the nature and extent 
of the new law. It was my principal endeavour to make its 
provisions as intelligible as I could to their capacities, by 
explaining to them, first, when their freedom would com- 
mence — a point on which the greatest anxiety was manifested 
— and then pointing out to them the various advantages they 
would enjoy under the new state of things. During three 
weeks occupied in this way, I every day addressed different 
bodies, varying in number, but certainly amounting in all to 
considerably above fifty thousand of the adult population of the 
island ; and never shall I forget the feelings I experienced in 
witnessing the deep and breathless attention with which the 
dark and motionless mass of human beings by which I was 
surrounded, stood stretching forward to catch every word that 
fell from my lips — till, as I proceeded in my statement, their 
countenances brightened up, as their hopes of liberty grew 
stronger ; at length the whole mass, as one body, was swayed 
about with pleasurable emotion, and their joy burst forth in 
one universal smile. 

I think it but justice to them to detail the particular por- 
tions of my explanation which always gave the greatest 
satisfaction ; as I think from this you will derive additional 
proof of the state of intelligence at which the Negroes have 
arrived, and that they are no longer to be considered as mere 
beasts of burden. There were these circumstances in the 
statement I made to them which seemed to excite the greatest 
interest. The first was when I announced to them the utter 
and immediate extinction of the power of coi-poral punishment 
of women. This was always hailed with lively expressions of 



10 

gratitude from all my auditors of both sexes. The next was, 
that though they themselves were still for a certain term to be 
subject to limited restraint, their young children were at 
once absolutely free. This I am the more glad to explain, as 
there had previously been some misapprehension of its effect 
in England. But not only did they rejoice at this, but were 
particularly pleased with the reason I gave for it, that their 
offspring would be thereby fitted by early education for their 
new state of freedom. The third point to which I would allude 
w^as the intelligent manner in which they comprehended, and 
the gratitude with which they received the promise, that 
though a certain number of hours were still given to the 
masters, in return for their houses and grounds, which was 
the footing on which I found it best to put it, still they 
might, by working for wages at other times, themselves 
advance the period of their perfect freedom. 

Now as to the general state of feeling in the colony when I 
left it, I have the pleasure to state, that during the last six or 
seven months of my stay there, puWic feeling had undergone 
a considerable change for the better ; and in my endeavours 
to promote a good understanding between all parties, in order 
to prepare them for the great crisis about to take place, I 
received the most prompt, cordial, and valuable support, from 
those amongst the most influential people there, who might 
have been supposed to be unfriendly to any alteration in the 
system of slave government acted upon in the West India 
islands. This I shall be always not only ready, but anxious 
to acknowledge. 

With a view not only to understand the value of the 
present state of things there, but to shew at the same time 
how impossible it was that they should have remained as they 
were—that if they had not improved, they must have become 
so much the worse as to lead to a complete disorganization of 
society — I must now allude, though but slightly, to what was 
the state of things but two short years since — that is, when I 
first landed in Jamaica, now four days more than two years 



11 

ago. To give you some idea of what but recently had been the 
condition of the island^ — in my first tour, in passing through 
some of those soUtary forests that crown the centre of the island, 
the only marks of human occupation were the exposed and 
bleaching bones of the misguided Negroes, executed after the 
rebellion ; whilst the thriving sea-ports were disfigured with the 
mouldering remains of the violated chapels • sad, but too con- 
vincing proofs of impotent desperation, leading to the gibbet, 
on the one side — of fear-inspired frenzy, provoking to sacri- 
lege, on the other. Such was the relative position of these 
two classes at that time. I could give a less serious, but a 
singular proof of how little men's minds were then prepared 
for the change which has since happened ; and I am the rather 
inclined to do so, as it is creditable to the discernment of my 
noble predecessor. Lord Belmore had always been popular 
amongst the colonists, not only for his amiable disposition 
and the easy nature of his government, but from an impression 
that he entertained, what was then and there considered to 
be a just view of the Slavery question; when, therefore, he 
was about to quit the island, a complimentary address was 
voted to him. In his reply thereto he introduced a sen- 
tence, in which I need not say that I cordially concur. His 
Lordship told them, " that the resources of that island would 
never be developed till slavery was abolished." I say I need 
not repeat that I cordially concur in every word of this, — that 
it would at any time, and by almost any society, within these 
walls, have been hailed with responsive feelings. But how 
was it then and there received ? In a moment disappeared all 
the well-earned popularity of the noble Earl ; and upon my 
arrival nothing was talked of but this, his, as they thought, 
strange and inconsistent sentiment. 

My Hon. Friend near me (Mr. Buxton) will recollect that in 
almost the only interview I had with him before my departure, 
which was of course merely of a private and friendly nature, the 
only wish I expressed was, that I might not be hurried into action 



12 

upon my first arrival there — that those who thought with him 
upon this subject, might not by any immediate demonstration of 
pubUc feehng, have forced me to take any decided step before 
I had time to inform myself of the real state of things there. 
He was pleased to assure me in reply that he hoped and be- 
lieved that all who thought with him, would be disposed to 
place every confidence in me — and I have now to express my 
gratitude for the fulfilment of that expectation during the 
whole of the time of my government. Circumstances, how- 
ever, over which no one on this side of the water had any 
control, forced me into action very soon after my arrival. It 
was not six weeks after I had landed in Jamaica, that I was 
obliged to hasten across the country to check an attempt, 
which the Gustos of the parish announced to me as imminent 
on the part of the militia, to force the jail on the day of their 
muster, and to rescue some Colonial Unionists, who refusing to 
give bail, under the expectation of a rescue, were confined upon 
a charge of pulling down a house in which a Baptist minister 
was sheltered. I wish not more particularly to allude either 
to this or to the other proceedings which followed in the 
early part of the year 1833, when open resistance to the 
King's proclamation in favour of rehgious toleration, was 
attempted to be organized in the shape of armed associations 
of militia, regularly enrolled as such, by their officers. If 
I do not enter into any details on this subject, it is not that 
I the least regret the strong measures I felt myself obliged 
to take, but I do not wish to revive the recollection of 
transactions, of which I believe many of the other actors in them 
now sincerely repent. I therefore at once refer with pleasure 
to the altered state of things which I have lately left. Not 
only was the great measure passed by the local legislature in 
the shape desired by the government, and a better under- 
standing between all classes happily established, but upon my 
quitting Jamaica, I received addresses from almost every parish 
in the island, thanking me for the general course of my adminis- 



13 

tration, and for the manner in which, with due regard for 
their safety, I had carried through that very question, the mere 
mention of the possibihty of which, had been so detrimental 
to my predecessor's deserved popularity. 

One circumstance I cannot help alluding to more distinctly : 
this is the possession on my part of a document for which I 
shall always be grateful to Providence. It is the united address 
of the missionaries of every denomination there — the Church 
missionaries — the Scotch — the Baptist — and the Moravians : 
the Wesleyans would have joined these, but they had already 
presented a separate address in the same spirit ; and all these 
combined to thank me, not for intentions, for these they never 
doubted, but for having actually succeeded in restoring to them 
religious toleration. To one who has all his political life, been 
a consistent, if not an important advocate of civil and religious 
liberty, there is indeed, during the two years passed in Jamaica, 
special reason to be grateful for the Divine aid which crowned 
with success his humble endeavours in so good a cause. 

Now I come to another part of the subject, on which it is 
most desirable to explain myself; because even the most 
sanguine cannot be entirely without apprehension, that by 
some means or another, for which perhaps, blame may attach 
to no one, there is a possibility of disappointment in the 
perfect success of so momentous and novel an experiment. It 
is therefore important that it should be known as the opinion 
of an eye-witness, that it was impossible the old system either 
could or ought to have lasted. As I said before, but cannot 
repeat more emphatically than I think it, the state of slavery 
was incapable of improvement. It admitted of no remedy 
short of extinction. In spite of humane intentions — of pe- 
riodical interference on the part of the superior authorities, I 
tell not you only, but I told the Legislature of Jamaica, as 
the result of my own experience, that the inseparable conco- 
mitant of slavery was flagrant abuse of power. No one is 
better testimony on such a subject than an esteemed friend 
of mine, Lord Seaford, one of the most amiable of men, and 



14 

a great proprietor in Jamaica. He had been to visit his 
property between twenty and thirty years ago; he returned 
at the same time I did; and I heard him say pubUcly in 
society there, that he did not find in the interval that there 
had been that improvement in the condition of the Negro 
which he had been led to expect. And why was this his 
opinion ? he, as well as myself, was ready to do justice to 
the efforts of many men whom we valued, in mitigation of its 
evils, but the system was incapable of improvement ; and what 
is more, while it lasted as the law of the land, no man, be he 
whom he might, could effectually control its abuses. I dare 
say many here think that the execution of my task carried its 
own reward. It sounds well to be appointed the avenger of un- 
deserved wrong, the guardian of unprotected innocence ; but no 
such proud and gracious office was mine. I was frequently 
made to feel the helplessness of my position. During the whole 
of my residence in Jamaica, as is known to my young friend 
opposite (Mr. Sheridan), who was with me on almost every 
occasion, I never refused to hear any complaint myself, that 
any Negro wished to make direct to me, — a privilege of which 
they largely availed themselves. I always heard their story 
to the end. I have listened to a tale of truth from their lips ; 
I have seen the hope of redress beaming on their brow, and I 
have felt a painful conviction of what must be my answer, and 
the unexpected despondency it must cause. They saw me to 
be active, they felt me to be kind, they believed me to be 
almost omnipotent. Alas ! they knew me not to be utterly 
powerless. However apparently cruel must have been the 
infliction, I was obliged to ask the fated question. Could 
they say that the legal number of thirty-nine lashes had been 
exceeded ? In vain they answered, how in such a state of suf- 
fering could they count the number of the stripes. The driver 
probably was the creature of the inflictor ; evidence if obtained 
w^ould probably be discredited ; and I was often obliged, when 
I thought them wronged, to advise that they should not press 
my interference on a point which would probably only entail on 



15 

them on another occasion, a repetition of a punishment within 
these Umits uncontrollable because irresponsible. Oh ! it was 
a sad and a strange sight of unparalleled occurrence in any 
other state of society, to see these poor creatures struggling 
between the confidence they were disposed to place in me as 
an individual, and the apparent impossibility of the truth of 
what I was stating. They saw me surrounded by all the out- 
ward emblems of power ; they felt that those of whom they 
complained were bound to treat me with formal respect. 
They could not understand, why, while they were subjected to 
the unrestrained power of those they knew to be my inferiors, 
I could not myself cure that injustice which I could not deny. 
I have at length convinced them that the law must be obeyed 
by me as well as another ; and with a weight at my heart, 
which even now would upon recollection oppress me beyond 
bearing, if I was not at the same time able to thank God, that 
the power of arbitrary punishment is this day at an end, — with 
such painful feelings as I cannot attempt to describe, I saw 
them return to the place of their suiFerings, muttering blessings 
on him, who they were at length persuaded, had the wish, but 
not the power, to serve them. And then indeed have I felt 
how incompatible were the forms of the British constitution 
with the substance of slavery ; and how little to be respected, 
that rigid regard for the rights of property which says, a man 
shall do what he likes with his own, when his own is his 
fellow man. 

- It was but too necessary that I should be cautious in my inter- 
ference ; that I should sometimes seem cold, really to be kind ; 
for in some cases, on the part of low and violent overseers, I 
know it as a fact, that whilst the punishment has been inflict- 
ing, he has cried out to the driver, " Do not spare him, that 
he may have something to shew to the Governor next time he 
complains." Such is the demoralizing nature of the system, 
necessarily leading to cruelty, that some of the worst cases I 
knew were in the instances of domestic slaves, when the cause 
of the punishment was rather caprice and personal feeling, 



16 

than incitement to industry. More than once I have heard 
of unspeakable cruelty inflicted by women on those of their 
own sex from motives of jealousy — and some instances have 
been reported to me, though I trust these are rare, of punish- 
ment, partaking of the character of torture, perpetrated by 
monsters in the shape of men, on the uncomplying objects of 
their disappointed passions. 

But as these cases are past, let them also be forgotten; and in 
lookmg to the future let us recollect that the interests of all par- 
ties are now the same — that for the welfare of the slaves them- 
selves, nothing is now so desirable as local co-operation; and 
that we must never forget that the West India proprietors 
have made some sacrifice, and incurred no small risk, in 
acquiescing in the triumph of that sacred cause which we are 
this day met to celebrate. Let our united efforts, therefore, 
be directed to make its success peraianent and complete ; 
towards securing which, let us always bear in mind that edu- 
cation is a primary and indispensable ingredient. To this I 
am sure my Right Hon. Friend on my right, will direct his 
early attention. 

And now, in conclusion, let us recollect in proud thankful- 
ness, that we are all — from you who represent the sentiments 
of the whole people of England, to the humble individual 
who now addresses you, — we are all but instruments in the 
hands of a higher and a holy Power. It pleases Him to ap- 
portion human means to effect human objects, and in this 
instance the God of mercy has called info operation a stupen- 
dous engine worthy of the sacred cause. The embodied 
will of a mighty nation, enforcing the irresistible dictates 
of justice, humanity, and religion, achieved the abolition of 
slavery, and has enabled me now with pride and with pleasure, 
to join heartily with my Hon. Friend in the expression of our 
wishes for the health and happiness of the " emancipated 
Negro." 

London : Printed by S. Baaster, Jun., 14, Bartholomew Close. 



