THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



OCTOBER, 1833. 



[NO. X. 



SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE TRADE IN 
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.* 

The existence of slavery in any part of the 
United States, is probably a subject of frequent 
and bitter reflection to every patriot and phi- 
lanthropist. The citizens of the northern sec- 
tion of the country, however, though they see 
and lament the extent of the evil in the south- 
ern states, have their feelings perpetually 
chilled, by the consciousness that all their 
efforts to remove or alleviate the disease which 
oppresses that quarter of our land, must be in- 
direct and operate slowly. Many too of our 
most respectable citizens think that any dis- 
cussion in the northern states, of the subject 
of slavery as it exists in the southern states, 
is an improper interference with their institu- 
tions. Though we consider this opinion as false 
'and absurd, yet as a matter of fact we are 
compelled to admit its existence. Its effects 
are most pernicious. By denying the liberty 
of the press, of speech, and almost of thought, 
in. regard to a subject upon which our remon- 
strances should be loud and unceasing, it 
prevents to a great extent the moral influence 
of the north from acting upon the south. 

But there is one part of the country where 
slavery is allowed, in regard to which the citi- 
zens of the north have not only a right to in- 
dicate and complain of the evil, but a great 
duty to perform of active exertion for its sup- 
pression. We refer to the District of Colum- 
bia. This District now is, and probably long 
will remain, under the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the general government. We dispute the 
assertion that slavery in this district, is the 
business of the southern states more than of 
the northern. It is the common concern of 



* This piece contains the substance of an article upon 
' An Extract from a Speech delivered by Charles 
Miner, in the House of Representatives of the United 
States, in 1829, on the subject of Slavery and the 
Slave Trade in the District of Columbia : with Notes;' 
— which appeared in the American Quarterly Review, 
in September last, with some alterations and additions 
by the writer of the article. 



the whole nation. Slavery exists in this Dis- 
trict by the permission of the government of 
the United States. The sin and disgrace of 
tolerating the institution there is national, and 
shared by the inhabitants of the northern 
states, equally with those of the southern. 

If a citizen of New- York or Pennsylvania, 
felt himself under a moral obligation to exert 
himself to put an end to slavery in his own 
State, why should he not feel the same obli- 
gation to abolish it in the District of Columbia ? 
Is there any difference in the cases ? 

A little attention to the history and present 
condition of this district, will, we believe, con- 
vince any candid mind that' slavery ought to 
be abolished there. This conclusion does 
not rest solely upon arguments which will ap- 
ply to slavery in the southern states, but upon 
others also which apply specially to the Dis- 
trict. 

By the Constitution of the United States, 
Congress had power 'to exercise exclusive 
legislation in all cases whatever over such 
district, not exceeding ten miles square, as 
might by cession of particular states and the 
acceptance of congress, become the seat of 
government of the United States.' 

Under this provision, Maryland and Virginia, 
shortly after the adoption of the constitution, 
ceded to the United States those portions of 
their territory which now form the District of 
Columbia. After congress had assumed the 
jurisdiction of the District, a law was passed 
dated February 27, 1800, which provided that 
the laws of Virginia and Maryland, as they 
then existed, should continue in force in the 
parts of the District by those states respective- 
ly ceded to the United States. Those laws 
therefore are still tho laws of the District of 
Columbia, except in those particulars in which 
they have been altered by acts of congress. 

Under this exclusive jurisdiction, granted 
by the constitution, congress has power to 
abolish slavery and the slave trade in the Dis- 
trict. It would hardly be necessary to state 
this as a distinct proposition, had it not been 
19 



sna-s* 



14(3 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



occasionally questioned. The truth of the 
assertion, however, is too obvious to admit of 
argument, and, we believe, has never been 
disputed by persons who are familiar with the 
constitution. 

The situation of the District in regard to 
slavery, is peculiarly unfortunate. Congress 
has done scarcely any thing on the subject ; 
so that one part, of the District is governed by 
the old slave code of Virginia, as it Avas thirty 
years ago, with no material improvement, and 
the other by that of Maryland as it was at the 
same period. 

The number of slaves in the District of Co- 
lumbia, was in 1830 only '6050, being little 
more than one seventh part of the whole pop- 
ulation, which was 39,834. This class, there- 
fore, in the District, is absolutely very small. 
It is also small when compared with the whole 
population of the District ; and when compared 
with the whole population of the country, it 
sinks into insignificance. We advert to the 
small number of slaves, not as a reason for 
neglecting them, but as one of the strongest 
arguments for enfranchisement. Where, in a 
population of one hundred thousand, ninety 
thousand are slaves, or of five hundred thous- 
and, two hundred and fifty thousand are slaves, 
there is plausibility in the plea that, immediate 
abolition would be attended with danger. 
But it is idle to talk of danger from the en- 
franchisement of the six thousand slaves^in 
the District, when there are thirty-four thou- 
sand freemen to protect themselves, to say 
nothing of the support of a nation comprising 
eleven millions of freemen. 

In considering the propriety of abolishing 
slavery in the District of Columbia, we scarce- 
ly need advert to the general arguments 
against the system. These are familiar to 
every general reader. We shall merely al- 
lude to some of them. 

The system has its foundation in injustice. 
This we shall not attempt to prove, since even 
the advocates of slavery often admit theoreti- 
cally that the slave has a perfect and inalien- 
able right to his personal liberty. 

The system being'thus founded in injustice 
the laws which regulate the relation of master 
and slave, are to the latter cruel and oppressive. 

The master of a slave has the legal right to 
sell him, and in so doing may separate him 
from his wife and children, and send him to a 
distant region where he may never see these 
dear objects of his affection till he meets them 



again in a better world. This is not merely 
the law, but it is law not unfrequently put in 
practice in the district. 

The slave is compelled to labor for his mas- 
ter, but is entitled, to no wages for his services,, 
and only receives such food, clothing, and 
lodging as his master pleases to bestow upon 
him. These it is scarcely necessary to add, 
are often shamefully insufficient. 

The slave can be beaten and otherwise 
abused at the arbitrary will of his master or 
his deputy, and the law gives him no redress. 

A slave cannot be a party to a suit. How- 
ever grievously his person or property may be 
injured, he can bring no action for redress. 
If he sells any thing, he can bring no action 
for the price. If he works for wages, as he 
may by his master's consent, he can maintain 
no suit, if they are not paid. 

In addition to these and other intolerable 
burdens which the law imposes on the slave,, 
his offences are in many cases more severely 
punished than the same acts when committed 
by a white man. 

The moral effects of the institution ought 
also to be borne in mind, in judging of the ne- 
cessity of abolishing it in the District of Co- 
lumbia. 

Slavery deprives the slave almost entirely 
of intellectual, moral, and religious instruc- 
tion ; and thus brutalizes and degrades all his; 
faculties. 

It encourages prostitution and promiscuous 
intercourse among the negroes, and discour- 
ages lawful marriage. 

While it produces these evils among the 
slaves, by a severe and necessary retribution, 
slavery corruptsthe morals of the whites, ren- 
dering them indolent, licentious, intemperate, 
violent, revengeful, and unfeeling. 

Of the political and economical evils of sla- 
very we refrain from speaking, not because 
they are not great, but because they are ob- 
vious and admitted. Every one who knows, 
any thing of the comparative situation of the 
northern and southern sections of our country, 
or even of Ohio and Kentucky, must acknowl- 
edge them. 

There are many considerations in a great 
measure peculiar to the District of Columbia, 
which render the abolition of slavery there an 
imperative duty upon the nation. Mr. Miner, 
in a preamble to resolutions offered by him to 
the house of representatives, January 9, 1829j. 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



147 



presents in a condensed form some of the im- 
portant facts which lead to this conclusion. 

'Whereas the laws in respect to slavery 
within the District have been almost entirely 
neglected ; from which neglect, for nearly 30 
years, have grown numerous and gross cor- 
ruptions. 

'Slave dealers, gaining confidence from im- 
punity, have made the seat of federal govern- 
ment their head quarters for carrying on the 
domestic slave trade. 

'The public prisons have been extensively 
used, (perverted from the purposes for which 
they were erected,) for carrying on the do- 
mestic slave trade. 

'Officers of the federal government have 
been employed, and derive emoluments from 
carrying on the domestic slave trade. 

'Private and secret prisons exist in the dis- 
trict for carrying on the traffic in human beings. 

'The trade is not confined to those who are 
slaves for life ; but persons having a limited 
time to serve, are bought by the slave-dealers 
and sent where redress is hopeless. 

' Others are kidnapped and hurried away 
before they can be rescued. 

'Instances of death, from the anguish of de- 
spair, exhibited in the District, mark the 
cruelty of this traffic. 

' Instances of maiming and suicide, executed 
or attempted, have been exhibited, growing 
out of this traffic within the District. 

'Free persons of color coming into the 
District, are liable to arrest, imprisonment, and 
sold into slavery for life, for jail fees, if unable, 
from ignorance, misfortune, or fraud, to prove 
their freedom. 

'Advertisements beginning, 'We will give 
cash for one hundred likely young negroes of 
both sexes, from eight to twenty-five years 
old,' contained in the public prints of the city, 
under the notice of congress, indicate the 
openness and extent of the traffic. 

'Scenes of human beings exposed at public 
vendue are exhibited here, permitted by the 
laws of the general government. 

'A grand jury of the district has presented 
the slave trade as a grievance. 

' A writer in a public print in the District" 
has set forth ' that to those who have never 
seen a spectacle of the kind (exhibited by the 
slave trade) no description can give an ade- 
quate idea of its horrors.' 

'To such an extent had this trade been car- 
ried in 1816, that a member of congress from 
Virginia introduced a resolution in the House, 
'That a committee be appointed to inquire 
into the existence of an inhuman and illegal 
traffic in slaves carried on in and through the 
District of Columbia, and report whether any, 
and what measures are necessary for putting 
a stop to the same.' 

' The House of Representatives of Penn- 
sylvania, at their last session, by an almost 



unanimous vote, expressed the opinion, 'that 
slavery within the District of Columbia ought 
to be abolished.' 

'Numerous petitions from various parts of 
the Union have been presented to congress, 
praying for the revision of the laws in respect 
to slavery, and the gradual abolition of slavery 
within the District. 

' A petition was presented at the last ses- 
sion of congress, signed by more than one 
thousand inhabitants of the District, praying 
for the gradual abolition of slavery therein.' 

The statements made by Mr. Miner in this 
preamble, we believe, are abundantly proved 
by facts, • Most of them are fulty substantiated 
in his speech. 

As, probably, the greater part of the citizens 
of our country, though favorable to the aboli- 
tion of slavery in the District of Columbia, 
are ignorant of the extent and enormity of the 
traffic in slaves carried on there, the subject 
deserves a more particular notice. 

The States of Virginia and Maryland having 
for some time found the cultivation of the soil 
by slaves less profitable than it was formerly, 
now raise slaves for sale and exportation to 
the southern markets. Six thousand slaves 
are computed to be sold every year to go out 
of Virginia alone. The District of Columbia, 
probably in consequence of the neglect of 
congress, has been found a very convenient 
place for collecting together and shipping 
cargoes of living bodies to the south. 

The manner in which this business is car- 
ried on, is inhuman and disgraceful to the 
country which endures it. Regular slave 
traders reside at the very seat of government. 
We copy one of their advertisements from 
Mr. Miner's speech. 

'WE WILL GIVE CASH 

For one hundred likely young negroes of 
both sexes, between the ages of eight and 
twenty-five years. Persons who wish to sell 
would do well to give us a call, as the negroes 
fire wanted immediately. We will give more 
than any other purchasers that are in market, 
or may hereafter come into market. 

Any letters addressed to the subscribers, 
through the post office at Alexandria, will be 
promptly attended to. For information, in- 
quire at the subscribers', west end of Duke 
Street, Alexandria, D. C. 

Franklin & Armfield.' 

Besides Franklin & Armfield, whose names 
are signed to this advertisement, several ether 
regular slave-traders reside in the District. 
Among these may be named Washington 
Roby, one Simpson, and Gilson Dove of Wash- 



148 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



ington. One M'Candlass, we are informed, 
keeps a tavern for negro traders at George- 
town ; and many negro dealers from the south, 
are in the habit of resorting to the District. 
We have thought it a duty to mention the 
names of these cannibals, in the same manner 
that we should those of a gang of thieves or 
counterfeiters. 

The slaves are brought into the district in 
droves, handcuffed and chained together, and 
driven like beasts. These wretched victims 
are then cast into public and private jails, 
where they are kept till they are sent to the 
South. Mr. Miner, in his speech, read the 
following exUact of a letter from Alexandria. 

1 Almost every week droves are brought 
into town often or twelve, all chained togeth- 
er. Some time since a person observed twen- 
ty-two or three come out of a cellar of a small 
house, where they had been stowed for some 
time. He thought it must surely be contrary 
to the laiVy that so many should be placed in 
so small an apartment, and inquired of one of 
the civil officers, how many slaves it was law- 
ful to place in a damp cellar. The officer re- 
plied 'as many as it will hold.' The same 
thing exists with regard to shipping them: 
they may place as many in a vessel as it will 
hold.' 

Mr. Miner makes the following statement 
in regard to the jail in Washington. 

'By papers furnished me by the keeper, it 
appears that there were sent to prison for safe 
keeping, that is, as is well understood, for 
sale, and imprisoned as runaways. 

Safe keeping. Taken up as runaways. 

In 1824, 81 52 

1825, 124 • 58 

1826 & 1827, 156 101 

1828, _ 91 79 

452 290 

'Debtors and persons charged with crimin- 
al offences, of course, are not included in the 
statement, so that it would appear, in the last 
five years, more than four hundred and fifty 
persons had been confined in the public pris- 
on of the city — a prison under the control of 
congress, and regulated by its laws — for sale 
in the process of the slave trade. Such, said 
Mr M., is not the intention for which the pris- 
on was erected. Pennsylvania, so far as she 
is concerned, and her means are appropriated 
to repair and keep up the prison, I am confi- 
dent in saying, does not and never has intend- 
ed that it should be used for this purpose.' 

We have information from other sources 
confirming the representations made by Mr 
Miner, as to the extent and atrocity of the 
slave trade in the District of Columbia. 

A gentleman well acquainted in Washing- 



ton, recently told us, that he should think from 
fifty to a hundred persons were sold yearly in 
that place to pay jail fees. 

A private jail used solely in the slave busi- 
ness, is kept by Washington Roby, in Wash- 
ington. Franklin and Armfield have a simi- 
lar establishment in Alexandria. These pla- 
ces are well provided with cells, dungeons, 
irons, and other conveniences for the trade. 
Besides these jails, there are other places of 
confinement in houses which are often used 
for the same purposes. 

Franklin and Armfield, the principal deal- 
ers in this District, have vessels constantly 
running to New Orleans with cargoes of hu- 
man beings. 

Slave-drivers reside at Washington who 
make it a business to drive droves of slaves 
further south by land. The children are car- 
ried in wagons, but the rest are forced to 
walk. The wretches who conduct this branch 
of the business, are provided with thumb- 
screws, as instruments of torture to be ap- 
plied to refractory slaves. 

These drovesj-as we may well imagine, pre- 
sent melancholy spectacles. The blacks move 
in pairs, the right hand of one handcuffed to 
the left hand of his neighbor. A chain pass- 
ing through the whole length of the drove, 
connects the pairs together. The citizens of 
Washington were so shocked by the sight of 
these sad processions, and the hearing of their 
cries and groans, that it is now the practice 
for them to leave the city late on Saturday 
nights. 

It is not easy to ascertain the precise ex- 
tent to which the slave trade is carried on in 
the District of Columbia, though it may be in 
some degree judged of from the facts which 
we have stated. A branch of business in 
which so large an amount of capital is invest- 
ed, in ships, jails, and bodies, and in which so 
many principal and subordinate agents are 
regularly employed, is obviously extensive. 

The enormity of the slave-trade of which 
the District of Columbia has been made the 
seat, has not only excited the attention of 
strangers, but has roused the indignation of 
the inhabitants of the District themselves. 
Mr. Miner, in the course of his remarks, read 
a presentment made by a grand jury at Alex- 
andria, in 1802. 

'January Term, 1802. 

' We, the grand jury for the body of the 
county of Alexandria 5 in the District of Col^ 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



149 



umbia, present as a grievance the practico of 
persons coming from distant parts of the Uni- 
ted States into this District, for the purpose of 
purchasing slaves, where they exhibit to our 
view a scene of wretchedness and human 
degradation, disgraceful to our characters as 
citizens of a free government. 

' True it is, that those dealers in the per- 
sons of our fellow men, collect within this 
District, from various parts, numbers of those 
victims of slavery, and lodge them in some 
place of confinement until they have complet- 
ed their numbers. They are then turned out 
in our streets, and exposed to view, loaded 
with chains, as though they had committed 
some heinous offence against our laws. We 
consider it a grievance, that citizens from dis- 
tant parts of the United States, should be per- 
mitted to come within the District, and pur- 
sue a traffic fraught with so much misery to a 
class of beings entitled to our protection by 
the laws of justice and humanity ; and that 
the interposition of civil authority cannot be 
had to prevent parents from being wrested 
from their offspring - , and children from their 
parents, without respect to the ties of nature. 
We consider those grievances demanding 
legislative redress ; especially the practice of 
making sale of black people, who are, by the 
will of their masters, designed to be free at 
the expiration of a term of years, who are 
sold and frequently taken to distant parts, 
where they have not the power to avail them- 
selves of that portion of liberty which was 
designed for their enjoyment.' 

Judge Morre], in his charge to the grand 
jury of Washington, at the session of the 
Circuit Court of the United States, January, 
1816, urged upon their attention the slave 
trade carried on in the District. He said, that 
-* the frequency with which the streets of the 
city had been crowded with manacled cap- 
tives, sometimes even on the Sabbath, could 
not fail to shock the feelings of all humane 
persons ; that it was repugnant to the spirit of 
our political institutions, and the rights of man, 
and he believed was calculated to impair the 
public morals, by familiarizing scenes of cru- 
elty to the minds of youth.' 

One of the worst features in the slave trade 
carried on in the District of Columbia, is that 
it leads to enslaving free people of color. 
One mode in which this'effect is produced is 
set forth in the presentment of the grand jury. 
Another, is by selling free colored persons 
who have been arrested as runaways, and fail 
to prove their freedom. Mr. Miner mentions 
some cases of this kind. 

'I have another case of hardship to bring to 
your notice. A man was taken up as a runa- 



way, and advertised for sale. He protested 
that he was a freeman. No proof to the con- 
trary appeared. As the time of sale approach- 
ed, a good deal of interest was excited for 
him, and two respectable citizens interposed 
in his behalf. They asked the delay of a 
short time, that the rights of the man might 
be ascertained. They went so far as to offer 
security for the payment of the fees, if the 
sale could be delayed. But I will read the 
evidence of what 1 state.' 

Here Mr. M. read the following: 

' District of Columbia, ) 
'Washington County, $ 

'Appear before me, a justice of the peace 
in and for this county, Ezekiel Young and 
Josiah Bosworth, two respectable witnesses, 
and make o*ath, in due form of law, that, in 
the last summer, they were at the jail of the' 
county of Washington, in the said District, in 
behalf of a black man called James Green, 
who stated that he was free, and could prove 
his freedom, and had written on for that pur- 
pose. That they did importune with the de- 
puty marshal of this district, to postpone the 
sale, and offered security for the fees, yet the 
said deputy marshal said he could not postpone 
the sale. He was then sold to a man who ac- 
knowledged himself a slave dealer, but said 
he would continue the slave here a few days, 
but did not. He was sold without any limita- 
tion of time of service, and no security was re- 
quired of the slave dealer to retain him in the 
District. 

' Given under my hand and seal, this 28th 
Jan. 1828. John Chalmers, J. P. [L.S.] 

'So the man .was sold, and sent off by the 
slave dealers into hopeless bondage, though 
probably having as much right to freedom as 
any one. Will any one doubt but our laws 
need revision ? Can any one who hears me, 
question but that this, whole matter needs to 
be looked into with a searching eye ? If this 
event had happened in a distant country, how 
strongly would it have affected us ? There 
is, in the public prints, an advertisement of a 
woman as a runaway, and that she will be sold 
for her jail fees. She is a yellow woman of 
about nineteen. She seems intelligent, and 
to have been well brought up. Her story is, 
that she is entitled to her freedom at twenty- 
five, but that her present master, who is a 
slave dealer, is trying to make her a slave for 
life. In this case I do not think the confine- 
ment is intended to aid him. But it will be 
seen in a moment, that when the subject pas- 
ses by unheeded, a dealer, owning a servant 
who has two or three years to serve, may 
cause him to be arrested as a runaway, let 
him be sold for jail fees, have a trusty friend to 
buy him in, and thus convert a servant for a 
term of years, into a slave for life. A more 
expeditious mode of proceeding-, by which 
persons having a limited time to serve are de- 



150 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



privecl entirely of their rights, is this : They 
are purchased up at cheap rates by the 
slave traders. They remove them to a great 
distance. It will be easily seen how small 
the chance that such persons would have to 
preserve the proofs of their freedom, and how 
little would their protestations be heeded 
without proof. They are carried where re- 
dress is hopeless. Thus the slave trade, as it 
exists, and is carried on here, is marked by 
instances of injustice and cruelty, scarcely 
exceeded on the coast of Africa. It is a mis- 
take to suppose it is a mere purchase and sale 
of acknowledged slaves. The District is full 
of complaints upon the subject, and the evil 
is increasing.' 

How atrocious is the system, which is here 
-revealed; how disgraceful to a christian com- 
munity ! A poor man is arrested on suspi- 
cion of being a slave. No owner appears to 
claim him. He is refused time to establish 
his freedom by evidence ; and finally is sold 
as a slave to pay jail fees. Every part of the 
proceeding is inhuman and brutal. In a coun- 
try where liberty is prized, the presumption 
should be, that every man is free till he is prov- 
ed to be a slave. In the District of Colum- 
bia, every colored person is presumed to be a 
slave, unless he can prove his freedom. — 
When an owner does not appear after a reas- 
onable time, to claim the person arrested on 
suspicion of being a slave, the prisoner ought 
to be discharged, and a compensation made to 
him for the injury which he has suffered. But 
in the District of Columbia, at the seat of gov- 
ernment of a nation claiming to be one of the 
most enlightened on the face of the earth, the 
free man, thus wronged by a causeless im- 
prisonment, is sold into hopeless bondage, to 
pay jail fees ! 

Some circumstances which have come -to 
<our knowledge justify the suspicion that offi- 
-cers of the United States government are de- 
riving improper benefits from the system of 
selling for jail fees. We are informed that 
jailors in the District take considerable pains 
to prevent colored people confined on suspi- 
cion of being runaways, from sending to their 
friends to get papers r to prove their freedom. 
They also exhibit an obvious reluctance to 
permit white persons who are desirous of as- 
sisting these poor prisoners, to see them. 

The circumstances mentioned in the affida- 
vit of Young and Bosworth lead to the same 
suspicion. 

We have also been assured by a person 
-whose veracity we have no reason to doubt, 



that a certain justice of the peace and some 
constables in Washington have been known 
to take away from free people of color the pa- 
pers which proved their freedom, and to pre- 
vent their using them. 

But whether there is any official misconduct 
or not, — if the law be never transgressed in 
regard to the sale of runaways, — still, so long 
as the public jails and public officers of the 
United States are made instruments in the 
transfer of slaves, so long is the government 
of the country a slave trading government, and 
the people a slave trading people. They not 
only tolerate the transgression, but become 
parties in it. 

Dr. Torrey, in his Portraiture "of Domestic 
Slavery, mentions another mode in which free 
persons are robbed of their liberty by perjury. 
He says, 'having selected a suitable free co- 
lored person to make a pitch upon, the conjur- 
ing kidnapper employs a confederate to as- 
certain the distinguishing marks of his body, 
and then claim's and obtains him as a slave, 
before a magistrate, by describing those marks, 
and proving the truth of his assertions by his 
well instructed accomplice.' 

Not only does the toleration of the slave 
trade in the District of Columbia, lead to the 
kidnapping of freemen under color of law, but 
it is often the cause of their being kidnapped 
by violence. Dr. Torrey makes mention of 
several kidnapped persons whom he found 
confined in a house in Washington, and whose 
freedom he succeeded in obtaining. The fol- 
lowing is his account of one of these cases. 

' The others whom I found in the same gar- 
ret, and at the same time, were a young black 
widow woman, with an infant at the breast, 
both of whom were born free. Her husband 
had died a kw days previous to her seizure, 
and she was in a state of pregnancy at the 
time. She stated that the man in whose house 
she resided, together with his brother, and 
three other persons, (two- of whom, she said, 
then stood indicted for having seized and car- 
ried her off at a former time,) came into the 
room (a kitchen) where she was in bed, seized 
and dragged her out, fastened a noose round 
her neck to prevent her from screaming, and 
attempted to blindfold her, which she resisted 
with such violence that she prevented them 
from succeeding. She said, while one of 
them was endeavoring to fix the bandage over 
her eyes, that she seized his cheek with her 
teeth, and tore a piece of it entirely off. She 
said one of them struck her head several times 
with a stick of wood, from the wounds of which 
she was almost entirely covered with blood.. 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



151 



She showed me a large scar upon her fore- 
head, occasioned by one of the blows, Which 
a gentleman who saw her the day previous to 
seizure, has since informed me was not there 
before. She said, while she was struggling 
against them, and screaming,- the man in whose 
house she lived bawled out, ' Choak the — — 

; don't let her halloo; she'll scare my 

wife 1' Having conquered her by superior 
force, she said, they placed her with the child 
in a chaise, (her description of which, with the 
horse and the driver, who was one of the vic- 
tors, corresponds precisely with that given 
by the mulatto man, of the carriage, &c. by 
which he also was conveyed,) and refus- 
ing to dress herself, three of them, leaving the 
two who belonged to the house, carried her 
off in the condition that she was dragged 
from the bed, to a certain tavern in Maryland, 
and sold them both to the man-dealer who 
brought them to the city of Washington. 
She stated, that one of her captors drove the 
carriage, and held the rope which was fixed to 
her neck, and that one rode each side, on 
horseback : that while one of them was nego- 
ciating a bargain with her purchaser, he ask- 
ed her who her master was, and replying that 
she had none, her seller beckoned to him to 
go into another room, where the business was 
adjusted without troubling her with any fur- 
ther inquiries. She stated, that her purchaser 
confessed, while on the way to Annapolis, 
that he believed she might have had some 
claim to freedom, and intimated that he would 
have taken her back, if the man of whom he 
bought her had not run away ; but requested 
her, notwithstanding, to say nothing to any 
body about her being free, which she refused 
to comply with. She affirmed, that he offered 
her for sale to several persons, ivho refused to 
purchase, on account of her asserting that she 
was free. She stated, that her purchaser, had 
left her in Washington for a few weeks, and 
gone to the Eastern Shore, in search of more 
black people, in order to make up a drove for 
Georgia.' 

We might easily adduce accounts of many 
more atrocities, to which the toleration of the 
slave trade has given occasion. But it is not 
necessary. Enough, and more than enough, 
has already been presented to our readers, to 
show the disgraceful inconsistency of the 
laws of the United States, which, while they 
denounce the slave tra.de as piracy if carried 
on in Africa or any foreign country, yet per- 
mit a thriving branch of the same traffic to be 
pursued within sight and hearing of the na- 
tional legislature. 

Scarcely an evil attends the African slave 
trade, which does not. find its parallel in' that 
carried on at the seat of government of the 
United States, by the license of the American 



people. The victims of the African slave 
trade are taken by force, against their will — - 
they are carried to a foreign country — they 
are torn from their friends, their wives, their 
children — they are chained — some of them 
were born free, and have been kidnapped by 
force or fraud. In which of these particulars- 
is the Columbian slave trade less atrocious ? 
The black taken from the District goes reluc- 
tantly — he is forced from the home of his love, 
to the unhealthy borders of the Mississippi — ■ 
as much removed from the hope of revisiting 
it, as if he was going to another continent ; 
he is torn by violence, amid shrieks, and tears, 
and groans, and muttered imprecations, from 
the embraces of his wife and children; he 
goes handquffed and chained ; he was perhaps 
born free, and was stolen from Delaware or 
Maryland. Ought not such a traffic to be 
abolished, 'absolutely, totally, and immediate-- 

ly?' 

We have been so long accustomed to the 
existence of slavery in the District of Colum- 
bia, that the enormity of tolerating it does not 
strike us as it would under other circumstances. 
Intelligent foreigners are almost uniformly 
surprised and shocked to find slavery and the 
slave trade flourishing at the seat of our gov- 
ernment. The following extract from the 
work of a recent traveller in this country, does 
but express the common sentiment of almost 
all who have preceded him. We admit that 
Col. Hamilton is often flippant, ignorant, cyn- 
ical, and prejudiced. But it is in vain to deny- 
that, in the present case, it is their substantial, 
truth which gives the sharp edge to his ob- 
servations. 

' Washington, the seat of government of a 
free people, is disgraced by slavery. The 
waiters in the hotels, the servants in private- 
families, and many of the lower class of arti- 
sans, are slaves. While the orators in Con- 
gress are rounding periods about liberty ins 
one part of the city, proclaiming, alto voce,, 
that all men are equal, and that 'resistance to- 
tyrants is obedience to God,' the auctioneer is 
exposing human flesh to sale in another ! I. 
remember a gifted gentleman in the Repre- 
sentatives, who, in speaking of the Senate, 
pronounced it to be 'the most enlightened ;- 
the most august, and most imposing body in 
the world! ' In regard to the extent of impo- 
sition, I shall not speak ; but it so happened" 
that the day was one of rain, and the effect of" 
the eulogium was a good deal injured by rec- 
ollecting that, an hour or two before, the 
members of this enlightened and august body- 
were driven to the Capitol by slave coachmen, 



152 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columhia. 



.who were at that very moment waiting to con- 
vey them back, when the rights of man had 
been sufficiently disserted on for the day. 

I trust I do not write on this painful subject 
in an insulting- spirit. * * But, that sla- 
very should. exist in the district of Columbia, 
that even the foot-print of a slave should be 
suffered to contaminate the soil peculiarly 
consecrated to Freedom, that the very shrine 
of the goddess should be polluted by the 
presence of chains and fetters, is perhaps the 
most extraordinary and monstrous anomaly to 
which^human inconsistency — a prolific mother 
— has given birth. 

The man who would study the contradic- 
tions of individual and national character, and 
learn by how wide an interval, profession may 
be divided from performance, should come to 
Washington. He will there read anew page 
in the volume of human nature ; he will ob- 
serve how compatible is the extreme of physi- 
cal liberty, with bondage of the understanding. 
He will hear the words of freedom, and he 
will see the. practice of slavery. Men who 
sell their fellow-creatures will discourse to 
him of indefeasible rights ; * * * he will 
be taught the affinity between the democrat 
and the tyrant ; he will look for charters, and 
find manacles ; expect liberality, and be met 
by bigotry and prejudice.' — Men and Manners 
in America, pp. 279, 280. 

We have seen it stated that a majority of 
the inhabitants of the District of Columbia is 
favorable to the abolition of slavery there. 
Whether this statement be numerically correct 
we know not, but there can be no doubt that 
the friends of the measure there, are numer- 
ous and respectable. The wishes of the citi- 
zens of the District deserve the respectful 
consideration of Congress, even if no oth- 
er arguments were to be found for enfran- 
chisement. In another point of view this 
state of feeling in the District is important. 
Any statute which Congress may pass to put 
an end to slavery there, will meet with an ac- 
tive and cordial support in the very sphere of 
its operations. It can hardly be questioned 
that its effects will be far more beneficial un- 
der such circumstances, than if it were gener- 
ally and strenuously opposed in the District. 

It may perhaps excite surprise that Con- 
gress should not long since have proclaimed 
freedom to every bondman over whom it has 
jurisdiction, and declared that the seat of a 
free government should not continue a market 
for human bodies. The great reason that this 
result has not taken place, undoubtedly is, that 
the public generally are not at all aware of 
the nature and extent of the evil. All that is 
now necessary, in order to put an end to the 



system, is to make the body of the people un 
derstand it. If this were done, a single ses- 
sion of congress would not perhaps be suffer- 
ed to pass before a reform was commenced. 

It must, however, be admitted, that argu- 
ments are not wanting from the friends of 
slavery, to prevent the interposition of con- 
gress. They urge, that for congress to act'on 
this delicate subject, would offend the feelings 
of the southern members ; and that to abolish 
slavery in the District would seem like a re- 
proach on those states where it is not abolish- 
ed. The sum of the argument is, that a great 
nation is to tolerate slavery and the slave 
trade, — to refuse the performance of a great 
act'of justice and humanity, — because an op- 
posite course would be a reproach upon that 
portion of the nation which is not troubled 
with conscientious scruples on the subject. 
The bare statement of the argument, in plain 
terms, carries with it its own confutation." 

Whether slavery ought to be abolished in 
the District is not a mere question of political 
expediency, it involves principles of moral 
duty. Therefore while we admit that no act 
should be done for the mere purpose of irrita- 
ting the whites of the south, we most earnest- 
ly contend that the claim which the blacks in 
the District have upon the nation for their 
freedom, is a claim of right, to neglect which, 
from the fear of giving offence to any part 
of the country, would be a base abandonment 
of principle. 

We acknowledge the whites of the south 
as our friends and brethren. We are bound 
to them by a thousand ties of interest and 
feeling. But we ought not to sacrifice our 
principles as an offering to their prejudices. 

But it is still further urged, that the slaves 
in the southern states will become uneasy if 
their brethren in the District be emancipated. 
We think there is little danger to be appre- 
hended from this source. We have never 
heard that the abolition of slavery in New- 
Jersey and Pennsylvania, produced any bad 
consequences in Maryland and Virginia. We 
admit, however, that the southern states con- 
tain a large population among them, which is 
a constant and increasing source of danger, 
and which must continue to be so, as long as 
their present system remains. Conspiracies, 
murders, and insurrections are the natural 
fruits of slavery. It will no doubt produce 
them in future as it has in time past. The 
explosions which take place ought to be as- 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



153 



cribed to the system itself, rather than to any 
extraneous circumstances. 

We are, however, far from denying that the 
measure which we advocate, if it should be 
carried, is to be without influence in the 
eouthern states. On the contrary, we believe 
that it will have visible and important effects, 
not, in stimulating the blacks to violence, but 
in directing the attention, of their masters to 
the subject of abolition. The mode in which 
Congress puts an end to the system in the 
District will be naturally regarded as a prece- 
dent in the southern states. If the measure 
should prove as beneficial, as we trust it will, 
7* will add another argument to the many 
which now exist in favor of emancipation. 
The southern states may at first feel offended 
at the course adopted by Congress, but when 
they themselves are beginning a course of le- 
gislative enfranchisement, as some of them 
probably will before many years are past, all 
eyes will at once turn to the abolition law of 
Congress to guide them in their great experi- 
ment. 

Many questions naturally occur to the mind, 
in considering the particular measures which 
Congress ought to adopt, in effecting any plan 
of abolition. Some of these questions are im- 
portant. In examining them, however, we do 
not purpose to enter much into detail, but 
rather to present the general principles which 
we think ought to guide all legislation upon 
this subject. 

An inquiry more frequently made than any 
other, is, whether abolition ought to be imme- 
diate or gradual. In our opinion the law to 
be passed ought to abolish slavery and the 
slave trade forthwith. Every colored person 
resident in the District, and every one here- 
after coming into it, except the personal at- 
tendants upon members of Congress and the 
officers of government who belong to slave 
states, and runaway slaves, ought to be de- 
clared free immediately on the passage of the 
act. This course is recommended by obvious 
reasons. 

It should never be forgotten in any discus- 
sion of this topic, that to give freedom to the 
slaves, is an act demanded by strict justice. 
They have a right to be made free. It is an 
act of injustice to them to detain them in bond- 
age one moment longer than the safety of so- 
ciety requires. 

The number of slaves in the District of Co- 
lumbia, as we have already remarked, is small, 
vox. I. 



both absolutely, and comparatively with the 
total number ot inhabitants in the District. 
Under these circumstances freedom may be 
safely given them at once and without any 
qualification. Where slaves are as numerous 
as they are in Virginia and South Carolina, in 
case they should be freed, new and peculiar 
laws would no doubt be required for their 
government. 

While we contend that justice requires that 
the enfranchised slaves should be permitted 
to enjoy at once all civil rights, we are far 
from urging that they should be instantly ad- 
mitted to all political privileges. They should 
be allowed to maintain suits, to be witnesses 
in courts of justice, and to acquire and trans- 
mit property, on the same terms as white 
men. Their crimes too ought to be visited 
with no higher penalties than those of whites. 
But the right of suffrage and eligibility to offi- 
ces might, with propriety, for some years, be 
restricted to such of the blacks as can read 
and write. 

Another consideration which renders imme- 
diate emancipation peculiarly necessary in the 
District of Columbia, is the slave trade carried 
on thore. As long as slavery is suffered to 
linger in the District, so long will this branch 
of commerce be prosecuted, in spite of all the 
laws which may be made to regulate it. But, 
when no person in the District can be a slave, 
the traffic must necessarily cease. 

To these reasons might be added, that if 
abolition is not prompt and expeditious, un- 
principled persons will take advantage of the 
delay, to sell their slaves and transport them 
out of the District into the southern States, 
before the law goes into effect, and thus evade 
its operation. 

Ought the owners of slaves who may be de- 
prived of them by an abolition law, to receive 
any .compensation? We reply, yes. For 
though the property of man in man is not 
rightful, yet as the whole nation in its corpor- 
ate capacity has made this property legal, the 
whole nation ought to bear the loss, whatever 
it may be, arising from an adoption of correct 
principles. This, however, is a question be- 
tween slaveholders and the nation, and the 
adjustment of it ought not to interfere for one 
moment with the right of the slaves to their 
freedom, which is clear and absolute. As the 
funds of the nation are abundant, the compen- 
sation ought to be liberal. Whether it ought 
to be the full market value of the slaves in 
20 



154 



Slavery and the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia. 



all cases, we shall not pretend to decide. It 
is probable that the liberation of plantation 
slaves will increase the value, of plantations. 
Such an effect as this ought certainly to be 
taken into consideration in estimating the 
amount of compensation to be given. In re- 
gard to some other classes of slaves, the loss 
of their owners will probably be without any 
direct corresponding benefit. In such cases 
we do not see why the owners should not re- 
ceive the full value of their slaves from the 
national treasury. The adjustment of the 
compensation must depend upon a greater sta- 
tistical knowledge of the District of Columbia 
than we pretend to enjoy. But, as we have 
already remarked, the settlement of this point 
ought not to delay the passage of an abolition 
law for a moment. 

Ought the liberated slaves to be colonized, 
that is, should any compulsory process be 
adopted to drive them from the country ? We 
answer unhesitatingly, no. They are attach- 
ed to the United States as their native land ; 
and as long as they are guilty of no offence 
against society, have the same right to remain 
here as the whites. 

We should regard any abolition law as im- 
perfect, which did not make provision for the 
education of all the colored children in the 
District. Without education, though free, they 
must continue a degraded caste. Let them 
be educated, and they would become useful 
citizens, and an enduring monument to the 
awakened justice of our country, more de- 
lightful to the contemplation of the philanthro- 
pist than any structure of brass or marble. 

It may perhaps be not amiss to say a few 
words as to the means by which the power of 
the national government may be called into 
action to suppress slavery in the District of 
Columbia. It should be recollected that Con- 
gress is never in advance of, but usually be- 
hind public opinion. It follows slowly but 
surely in the path taken by the people. The 
legislation of this body is but the echo of the 
people's voice. If the people really desire 
slavery to be driven from the seat of govern- 
ment,Congress will pass the statutes necessary 
to carry the object into effect. But it is in 
vain to expect the national legislature to adopt 
an important measure of this kind,- Avhich is 
sure^to offend the prejudices of a large body 
in the community, unless the members feel 
confident that they are acting in conformity 
with the wishes of their constituents. Aloud 
and' decided expression of public sentiment is 



necessary to stimulate the sluggish force of 
Congress, and to overcome the vis inertia, with 
which an established evil resists every attempt 
to remove it. 

The modes of acting upon Congress are so 
obvious and familiar, that it is needless to en- 
large upon them. Those who are desirous of 
abolishing slavery in the District must unite 
themselves together, and use the common 
means for diffusing information upon the sub- 
ject throughout the country. Newspapers and 
other periodical journals and tracts can be 
made to exert a widely extended influence. 
Public meetings should be held, and as many 
petitions as possible sent to Congress, praying 
for the desired object. An expression of 
opinion on the subject might probably, by ac- 
tive exertions, be obtained from some of the 
state legislatures. 

It is not very difficult to rouse the nation, 
or rather the non-slaveholding part of it, to 
powerful exertion, in order to remove the pol- 
lution of slavery from the capital of our coun- 
try. The principles of the people on this 
subject are sound, and their feelings warm. 
To induce them to act, nothing more is ne- 
cessary, as we have already intimated, than to 
make them familiar with the facts of the case. 
Let this be done, and the abolition of slavery 
in the District will ba so easily effected, that 
men will hereafter wonder that it should have 
been endured there so long. 

Since the foregoing remarks were prepared 
for the press, the news of the abolition of sla- 
very in the British Colonies has been received 
in this country. This glorious act of the 
British nation, presents a mortifying contrast 
to the conduct of our own. They have given 
freedom to eight hundred thousand slaves, 
separated from them by a vast extent of ocean ; 
we refuse it to six thousand at the seat of our 
government, in the very heart of our country. 
Burdened as they are with an enormous debt, 
they cheerfully pay twenty millions of pounds 
sterling for the sake of liberty and justice ; 
while we, free from debt, 1 with flourishing 
finances, are not willing to pay a hundredth 
part of the sum in the same cause. All class- 
es of the British people have for many years 
been exerting powerful efforts to effect the 
great object which they have at last accom- 
plished ; while the Americans during the same 
period, have remained deaf to the cries of their 
oppressed fellow men, and insensible to the 
dishonor of their country. 



Letter of Patrick Henry. — Abolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. 



155 



LETTER OF PATRICK HENRY. 

The following copy of a letter from Patrick 
Henry, is published from the Unionist. It 
was addressed to Robert Pleasants, a Friend 
in Virginia. We are informed that it after- 
wards fell into the hands of Anthony Benezet, 
who gave it to the venerable Moses Brown, 
by whose means it has been preserved to the 
present time. 

The letter is strongly marked by the frank- 
ness and fearlessness of Henry's character. 
But it exhibits a melancholy inconsistency 
between his principles and his practice. 

We hope we shall not be charged with an 
improper interference with the South in pub- 
lishing in Massachusetts aletter written sixty 
years since in Virginia. 

■It seems to us that we have either seen this 
letter before, or some production of Henry's 
pen in which similar sentiments were avowed. 
It deserves, however, frequent republication. 

'Dear Sir, — I take this opportunity to ac- 
knowledge the receipt of Anthony Benezet's 
book against the Slave Trade. I thank you 
for it. It is not a little surprising that Chris- 
tianity, whose chief excellency consists in 
softening the human heart, in cherishing and 
improving its finer feelings, should encourage 
a practice so totally repugnant to the first im- 
pressions of right and wrong ; what adds to 
the wonder is, that this abominable practice 
has been introduced in the most enlightened 
ages, times that seem to have pretensions to 
boast of high improvements in arts, sciences 
and refined morality, have brought into gene- 
ral use and guarded by many laws, a species 
of violence and tyranny, which our more rude 
and barbarous, but more honest ancestors, de- 
tested. Is it not amazing, that at a time when 
the rights of humanity are defined and under- 
stood with precision, in a country above all 
others fond of liberty, that in such an age and 
such a country we find men professing a re- 
ligion the most humane, mild, meek, gentle 
and generous, adopting a principle as repug- 
nant to humanity, as it is inconsistent with the 
Bible and destructive to liberty ? 

Every thinking honest man rejects it in 
speculation, how few in practice, from con- 
scientious motives. The world in general 
has denied your people a share of its honors, 
but the wise will ascribe to you a just tribute 
of virtuous praise for the practice of a train 
of virtues among which your disagreement to 
Slavery will be principally ranked. I cannot 
but wish well to a people whose system imi- 
tates the example of Him whose life was per- 
fect, and believe me I shall honor the Quakers 
for their noble effort to abolish Slavery. It is 
equally calculated to promote moral and po- 
litical good. 



Would any one believe that I am master of 
slaves, of my own purchase ? I am drawn along 
by the general inconvenience of living with- 
out them. I will not, I cannot justify it. 
However culpable my conduct, I will so far 
pay my devoir to virtue as to own 'the excel- 
lence and rectitude of her precepts, and to la- 
ment my want of conformity to them. 

I believe a time will come, when an oppor- 
tunity will be offered to abolish this lamenta- 
ble evil ; every thing we can do is to improve 
it if it happens in our day, if not, let us trans- 
mit to our descendants together with our slave 
a pity for their unhappy lot and an abhorrence 
for slavery. If we cannot reduce this wished 
for reformation co practice let us treat the un- 
happy victims with lenity ; it is the farthest 
advance we can make towards justice ; it is a 
debt we owe to the purity of our religion to 
show that it is at variance with that law which 
warrants slavery. Here is an instance of si- 
lentMeetings, (the scoff of Reverend Doctors,) 
have done that which learned and elaborate 
preaching could not effect, so much preferable 
are the genuine dictates of conscience and a 
steady attention to its feelings, above the 
teachings of those men who pretend to have 
found a better guide. 

I exhort you to persevere in so worthy a 
resolution. Some of your people disagree or at 
least and luke-warm in the abolition of Slave- 
ry. Many treat the resolution of your meet- 
ing with ridicule, and among those who throw 
contempt on it are Clergyman, whose surest 
guard against both ridicule and contempt is a 
certain Act of Assembly. 

I know not where to stop. I could say 
many things on this subject, a serious review 
of which gives a gloomy perspective to future 
times. 

Excuse this scrawl, and believe me withes- 
teem, Your Ob't Serv't. 

PATRICK HENRY, Jr. 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE BRITISH 
COLONIES. 

The act putting an end to Slavery in the 
British Colonies was passed in August last. 
We have not yet seen the statute ; and with 
the details of the measure as far as we under- 
stand them, we are far from being satisfied. 
But still the great object is accomplished. 
Eight hundred thousand men are freed from 
bondage. A nation of slaves is made a nation 
of freemen. 

This event is an era in the history of the 
British nation, to which its past records afford 
no parallel. When the memory of the bloody 
victories of Cressy and Aginconrt, Blenheim 
and Waterloo, shall become dim in the lapse 
ages, future generations of Britons will look 
back to the abolition of slavery as the bright- 



156 



Abolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. — Facts. 



est and most godlike act in the annals of their 
country. It is a triumph of the higher princi- 
ples of our nature, — of justice and humanity, 
— over selfishness, prejudice, and avarice. 

The apparent apathy with which the news 
of an event so striking and momentous has 
been received in this country, would be sur- 
prising, if it were not that we had been pre- 
pared for the measure by slow and successive 
stages of information, so that long before the 
passage of the act was known, the result was 
considered as certain. 

The abolition of slavery in the British colo- 
nies, however, cannot be looked upon with un- 
concern in the United States. Though the 
restoration of their natural rights to eight hun- 
dred thousand men, however distant from us, 
is. an event interesting on its own account, 
yet the effects which it is to produce in this 
and other slaveholding countries, are even 
more important. When the British king -put 
his name to the statute for abolishing slavery 
in the colonies, he signed the death warrant 
of slavery throughout the civilized world. 

In vain will slaveholders and their adherents 
attempt to resist the moral influence of Great 
Britain. The moral courage of the benevo- 
lent will be strengthened, the moral sensibility 
ofthe lukewarm will be roused, and the moral 
force ofthe great body of the people will be 
called into action, to exterminate at once and 
forever the system which has so long disgraced 
manhood and Christianitv. 



FACTS. 

The reasons which induce abolitionists to 
collect and publish cases of cruelty perpetra- 
ted by slaveholders, are frequently misrepre- 
sented. It is often said, that we charge the 
whole body of whites at the South, with ha- 
bitually committing those barbarous outrages 
on the negroes, which, though they occasion- 
ally occur, are, in fact, exceptions to the gen- 
eral mode of treatment. 

Our argument is very much perverted. 
When we give an account of any atrocity 
committed by a white, at the South, upon a 
negro, we do not wish it to be inferred that all 
the whites practise, or even approve of such 
atrocities. Many slaveholders, we readily 
admit, treat their slaves with kindness and 
consideration. If it were not so, the frame of 
society at the south could not endure for a 
moment. 

Our argument, though of course we cannot 



preface every incident we relate by a formal 
statement of it, is substantially this. The 
slaves are subjected to greater cruelty and 
oppression than the whites in our country, 
therefore, for this, in addition to many other 
reasons, slavery should be abolished. 

How do we establish this argument ? We 
show that the slaves are less protected by law 
from oppression than the whites ; that public 
opinion has little respect for their rights ; and 
that if they are injured they usually seek in 
vain for sympathy or assistance in the reign- 
ing caste. These general facts, indeed, can- 
not be disputed. But to represent the horrors 
of the system, and to awake public sensibili- 
ty on the subject, it is necessary to exhibit in 
their true colors, the aggravated outrages 
which are daily occurring. 

We do not contend then that all slavehol- 
ders are brutal and barbarous, but we do say, 
that the laws and institutions of the southern 
States-encourage brutal cruelty, and that pub- 
lic sentiment there tolerates, if it does not 
sanction it. 

We shall now proceed without further in- 
troduction to mention two horrible transac- 
tions which have lately been related to us. 
We regret that we did not ascertain the names 
of the parties. 

The following circumstance occurred near 
Elkton in Maryland. A man, for some trifling 
cause or other had taken offence at a negro. 
In order to wreak his vengeance upon the 
poor slave without molestation, he purchased 
him of his owner, and had him whipped to 
death. 

The wife of a clergyman, who resided in 
the State of Virginia, not far from Alexandria 
in the District of Columbia, became jealous of 
a female slave who resided in the family and 
was owned by her husband. During a short 
absence ofthe husband, the wife had the feet 
of this unfortunate woman chopped off, and 
in this mutilated condition had her carried to 
some distance from the house and there ex- 
posed in the open air. The weather was cold, 
and it was supposed she would perish. It 
happened, however, that some humane person 
passing by, had her taken to his house, where 
her wounds were cured. 

When the husband returned home, his wife 
reported that his slave had died during his ab- 
sence. 

A considerable time afterwards the husband 
happened to visit the house of the person who 



Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society. — Protest against the Colonization Society. 



15? 



had relieved the wretched slave, and was 
made acquainted with tile whole transaction. 
In order to place the woman as far as possible 
beyond the reach of his Wife, he made a bill 
of sale of her to the person who found her. 
- When the husband went home he told his 
Wife what he had seen and heard. She, in- 
stead of being overwhelmed by learning that 
her barbarity had become known, expressed a 
wish to have the woman again. The precau- 
tion of the husband, in making a conveyance 
of the slave, fortunately preserved her from 
becoming again the victim of her mistress' 
diabolical passions. 

If we are not mistaken, the person who 
narrated these cases to us, stated that neither 
of the guilty parties in these two atrocious 
transactions were ever punished or even in- 
dicted. Little or no attention, indeed, is paid 
to such occurrences at the South. Crimes 
which at the North would send their perpe- 
trators to the gallows or the state prison, at 
the South are not visited with the slightest 
punishment. What must be the state of mor- 
als and feeling in a community in which such 
criminals are tolerated ! 



QUARTERLY MEETING OF THE NEW- 
ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
This meeting was held in Boylston Hall, 
September 30. A numerous audience was 
collected. After a prayer by the Rev. Mr. 
Phelps, and singing by a choir of colored chil- 
dren from Miss Paul's school, an address was 
delivered by the Rev. Mr. May. 

We shall not pretend to give even an out- 
line of Mr. May's discourse. It was, as it 
seemed to us, admirably adapted for the occa- 
sion, and was well calculated to interest and 
persuade his audience. Mr. May spoke with 
great earnestness, feeling, and eloquence, 
tempered throughout,ho wever, with great kind- 
ness and Christian benevolence. 

A vote of thanks was returned to Mr. May, 
and a copy of his discourse requested for the 
press. 

A vote of thanks was also given to Miss 
Paul for the services of her pupils in singing. 
The following resolutions were then propo- 
sed, and adopted without opposition. 

Resolved, That the act of the British nation by 
which slavery is abolished in their colonies, merits the 
gratitude and admiration of the civilized world. 

Resolved, That the thanks of this meeting be pre- 
sented to those British philanthropists who have for so 
many years devoted themselves to the accomplish- 
ment of this glorious result. 



BRITISH PROTEST AGAINST THE COLO- 
NIZATION SOCIETY. 

We publish below a protest against the 1 
American Colonization Society, which has 
lately appeared in England. The names ap- 
pended to it are among the most distinguished 
in the Anti-Slavery cause. The bitterness of 
the prejudices in this country against the color- 
ed people, has prevented too many really be- 
nevolent persons from viewing the persecuting 
and oppressive spirit of this association in its 
true light. In Great Britain, where the preju^ 
dice against the colored races of men is much 
milder, the true friends of the blacks have, al- 
most to a man, shrunk back with abhorrence 
from schemes of banishment, disguised under 
the specious name of Colonization. 
PROTEST. 
We the undersigned, having observed with 
regret that the ' American Colonization Socie- 
ty ' appears to be gaining some adherents in 
this country, are desirous to express our opin- 
ions respecting it. 

Our motive and excuse for thus coming for- 
ward are the claims which the Society has 
put forth to Anti-Slavery support. These 
opinions are, in our opinion, wholly ground- 
less ; and we feel bound to affirm that our de- 
liberate judgment and conviction are, that the 
professions made by the Colonization Society 
of promoting the abolition of Slavery, are al- 
together delusive. 

As far as the mere Colony of Liberia is con- 
cerned, it has no doubt the advantages of 
other trading establishments. In this sense, 
it is beneficial both to America and to Africa,, 
and we cordially wish it well. We cannot,, 
however, refrain from expressing our strong 
opinion that it is a settlement of which the: 
United States ought to bear the whole cost. 
We never required of that country to assist 
us in Sierra Leone ; we are enormously bur- 
dened by our own connection with Slavery ^ 
and we do maintain that we ought not to be 
called on to contribute to the expenses of a 
Colony, "which, though no doubt comprising- 
some advantages, was formed chiefly to in- 
dulge the prejudices of American Slaveholders, 
and which is regarded with aversion by the 
colored population of the United States. 

With regard to the extinction of the Slave 
Trade, we apprehend that Liberia, however 
good the intentions of its supporters, will be 
able to do little or nothing towards it, except, 
on the limited extent of its own territories. 
The only effectual death blow to that accursed 
traffic will be thedestruction of slavery through- 
out the world. To the destruction of slavery 
throughout the world, we are compelled to say 
that we believe the Colonization Society to be 
an obstruction. 

Our objections to it are, therefore, briefly 



158 



A Siaveholding Nation. 



these : — While we believe its pretexts to be 
delusive, we are convinced that it real effects 
are of the most dangerous nature. It takes 
its root from a cruel prejudice and alienation 
in the whites of America against the colored 
people, slave or free. This being its source, 
the effects are what might be expected ; that 
it fosters and increase, the spirit of caste, al- 
ready so unhappily predominant ; that it widens 
the breach between the two races — exposes 
the colored people to great practical persecu- 
tion, in order to force them to emigrate ; and 
finally, is calculated to swallow up and divert 
that feeling which America, as a Christian and 
a free country, cannot but entertain, that sla- 
very is alike incompatible with the law of God, 
and with the well being of man, whether the 
enslaver or the enslaved. 

On these grounds, therefore, and while we 
acknowledge the Colony of Liberia, or any 
other colony on the coast of Africa, to be in 
itself a. good thing, Ave must be understood 
utterly to repudiate the principles of the Ame- 
rican Colonization Society. That Society is, 
in our estimation, not deserving of the coun- 
tenance of the British public. 

WM. WILBERFQRCE, 

WM. SMITH, 

ZACHARY MACAULAY. 

WILLIAM EVANS, M. P. 

SAMUEL GURNEY, 

GEORGE STEPHEN, 

SUFFIELD, 

S. LUSHINGTON, M. P. 

THOS. FOWELL BUXTON, M. P. 

JAMES CROPPER, 

WILLIAM ALLEN, 

DANIEL O'CONNELL, M. P. 
London, July, 1833. 



A SLAVEHOLDING NATION. 

We often hear it asserted that the United 
States, as a nation, have no concern with sla- 
very ; that, though it is tolerated in the south- 
ern States, the nation is not responsible for it, 
since Congress has no power to legislate on 
the subject. It is thus that men talk who have 
never reflected. But, on the other hand, we 
declare and are prepared to establish by proof, 
that the American nation, both directly and 
indirectly, both by legislating and neglecting 
to legislate, approves and encourages slavery, 
and its twin-born sin, the hatred against the 
colored race. 

1. The constitution of the United States 
binds, as far as it can, the people of the north- 
ern States, to restore runaway slaves to their 
owners. 

2. Congress has admitted slave States into 
the Union without any restriction on the sub- 
ject of slavery. 

3. Congress has not abolished slavery in the 
District of Columbia. 



4. Congress has not abolished slavery in 
the territories of Florida and Arkansas. 

The slaves in these territories are now few 
in numbers, but they are every day increasing. 
Slavery might now be abolished in them, with 
little inconvenience or expense. Every hour's 
delay renders the task of abolition more diffi- 
cult. 

5. Congress has not abolished the domestic 
slave-trade, carried on between the States. 

It is well known that many thousand slaves 
are every year torn from their homes in the 
more northerly of the southern States, and 
sold into those farther south. A large part of 
them are raised for the very purpose of being 
thus sold. The sale of slaves is one of the 
largest traffics carried on in the United States. 
This slave-trade as abominable in principle 
and nearly as atrocious in practice, as the Af- 
rican slave-trade, it is within the power of 
Congress to abolish, as far as it is carried on 
between the States. The Constitution ex- 
pressly gives that body the power to ' regulate 
commerce with foreign nations, and among the 
several States.' * 

6. The laws of the federal government pro- 
hibit colored foreigners from being naturalized. 

7. The same laws allow only free white 
persons to be enrolled in the militia. 

It may not at first view appear any hardship 
upon colored persons to be exempted from 
serving in the militia. But when we recollect 
that this exemption is a mark of the contempt 
and scorn with which the whites too often re- 
gard their race, it must be complained of as 
unjust. 

8. The same laws prohibit colored persons 
from carrying the mail. 

9. Congress in the act incorporating the 
city of Washington gives the municipal au- 
thorities power, ' to prescribe the terms and 
conditions upon which free negroes and mu- 
lattoes may reside in the city.' This power 
has been most oppressively and abusively ex- 
ercised by the city. 

We have not searched the statute book of 
the United States to show all the cases in 
which the laws of the federal government 
have been unjust to the people of color, but 
have merely referred to such statutes as occur 
to our recollection. A careful examination of 
the published laws would, no doubt, bring to 
light many more. But the particulars which 



* This subject has been treated of by an able wri- 
ter in the Liberator, of Oct. .5, 1833. 



Nelv Anti-Slavery Societies. 



159 



we have specified abundantly support our as- 
sertion that the Americans, as a nation, ap- 
prove and encourage slavery, and foster the 
prejudices against the colored race. As a na- 
tion, then, until we do something to amend our 
constitution and laws, we are responsible for 
the shame and guilt of slavery, and are the 
aiders and abettors of a criminal proscription 
and persecution of our colored brethren. 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 

We have received accounts of the formation 
of several newAnti-Slavery Societies. All of 
them seem likely to be carried on with spirit, 
and to be useful auxiliaries in the good cause. 

WESTERN RESERVE ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY. 

On the day succeeding the late commence- 
ment of the Western Reserve College, at 
Hudson, Ohio, a meeting was held, at which 
an Anti-Slavery Society was formed on the 
principle of total and immediate emancipation. 
The friends of colonization having been ap- 
prised of the movement beforehand, attended 
the meeting, and proposed the formation of an 
association to be called ' The Western Reserve 
Anti-Slavery and Colonization Society.' After 
an animated discussion of three hours contin- 
uance, the colonizationists, failing to accom- 
plish their object, withdrew. The real friends 
of abolition then adopted a constitution, and 
elected the following officers : 

EL1ZUR WRIGHT, Esq. President. 
Dr. O. K. HAWLEY, Vice President. 
Rev. HENRY COWLES, Cor. Sec. 
R. M. WALKER, Ree. Sec. 
„ • OWEN BROWN, Esq. Treasurer. 

Rev. Jacob Baily, 

Woolsey Wells, Esq. 

Rev. Daniel Miller, 

Rev. Nath. Cobb, 

Dr. Wm. N. Hudson. } Counsellors. 

John M. Sterling, Esq 

Lucretius Bissell, 

Rev. John Montieth, 

R. Bidwell, Esq. J 

The following resolutions, among others, 
were then adopted : 

Resolved, That notwithstanding the differ- 
ence of opinion with respect to the Coloniza- 
tion Society, we cordially invite the friends of 
that Society to unite with us, in the prosecu- 
tion of all matters which meet their approba- 
tion ; and we pledge ourselves to co-operate 
with them in all their plans which we con- 
ceive, all things considered, will tend to bene- 
fit the colored people. 

Resolved, That in the opinion of this socie- 
ty, the cause of the oppressed and the rights 
of man, require every citizen to petition to 
Congress immediately to abolish slavery in 
the District of Columbia, and in all the terri- 



tories under their control, and that it is al.3o 
the duty of the citizens of this State to petition 
the General Assembly at the next session to 
repeal all laws now existing in this state, which 
make a distinction between white and colored 
men in the enjoyment of rights and privileges. 



NEW-YORK CITY ANTI-SLAVERY SO- 
CIETY. 

At a meeting of the friends of immediate 

emancipation of Slaves in the United States, 

held at Chatham-street Chapel, Wednesday 

evening, October 2, after the adoption of a 

Constitution, the Society went into the choice 

of officers, when the following persons were 

chosen, — 

ARTHUR TAPPAN, President. 
WM. GREEN, Jr., Vice President. 
JOHN RANKIN, Treasurer. 
ELIZUR WRIGHT, Jr., Cor. Secretary. 
C. W. DENISON, Rec. Secretary. 

Joshua Leavitt, ~] 

Isaac T. Hoofer, | 

Abra. L. Cox, M. D. )■ Managers. 

Lewis Tappan, 

Wm. Goodell. J 



ABOLITION SOCIETY OF PAINT VALLEY. 

Agreeably to adjournment, the Abolition 

Society of Paint Valley, Ohio, held its annual 

meeting, on Wednesday, the 28th of August, 

1833, and the following officers were chosen. 

GEORGE BROWN, Esq. President. 
WILLIAM WILSON, Esa. V. President. 
ADAM B. WILSON, Esq. Rec. Sec'ry. 
Rev. JAMES H. DICKEY, Cor. Sec'*ry. 
Mr. JOSEPHTLAWHEAD, Treasurer. 

Members of the Executive Committee for Highland 
County. 
Rev. SAMUEL CROTHERS, 
Hon. HUGH SMART. 

For Fayette Counly. 
Mr. HUGH GHORMLY, 
Mr. JAMES McCONNEL. 

For Ross County. 
WILLIAM SMITH, Esq. 
Mr. JAMES C. STEELE. 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY OF PLAINFIELD 
AND ITS VICINITY. 

The Unionist of August 29, gives an ac- 
count of a meeting in Plainfield, Ct. at which 
the ' Anti-Slavery Society of Plainfield, and 
its vicinity,' was organized. . An address was- 
delivered by Mr. Andrew Rockwell, and a 
constitution adopted. Forty three persons 
then became members of the Society. The- 
following persons were then chosen officers. 

Dea. RINALDO BURLEIGH, President. 
SAMUEL L. HOUGH, ) v . ,„ ., , 
GEORGE SHARPE, \ l ^ Presidents. 
EDWIN TUCKER, Rec. Secretary.. 
Rev- S. J. MAY, Cor. Secretary. 



160 



Truth.— The Negro Mother's Appeal. 



TRUTH. 

True it is, that an ill-timed zeal is always 
indiscreet, and calculated to irritate, rather 
than to convert. But to avow with frankness 
and modesty what we regard as an important 
truth, — to do it, even when we have reason to 
conclude it will not be palatable, and to meet 
willingly any ridicule or sarcasm which may 
be launched against it; this I maintain to be 
an actual duty. A noble avowal of this kind, 
moreover, may always be made, without pre- 
tending to assume, uncalled for, anything of 
the missionary character. 

It is, I repeat, a duty, not to keep back an 
important truth at any period ; for though there 
may be little hope of its being immediately ac- 
knowledged ; it may tend to prepare the mind 
of others, and in due time, doubtless, produce 
a better and more impartial judgment, and a 
consequent triumph of truth. Silvio Pellico. 

[From an English Tract.] 
THE NEGRO MOTHER'S APPEAL. 

White Lady, happy, proud ani free ! 
Lend, awhile, thine ear to me ; 
Let the Negro Mother's wail 
Turn thy pale cheek yet more pale. 

Yes, thy varying cheek can show 
Feelings none save mothers know; 
My sable bosom does but hide 
Strong affection's rushing tide. 

Joy, fair Lady, wilh the name 
Of Mother, for thy first born came, 
Joy unmingled wilh the fear 
Which dwells, alas ! for ever here. 

Can the Negro Mother joy 
Over this, her captive boy, 
Which, in bondage, and in tears, 
For a life of woe she rears 1 

Though she bears a mother's name, 
A mother's rights she may not claim, 
For the white man's will can part 
Her darling from her bursting heart. 

Safe within thy circling arms, 
Thou mayst watch the opening charms 
Of the babe who sinks to rest 
Cradled on thy snowy breast ; 

Confiding in thy right divine, 
Press his rosy lips to thine ; 
By no force, nor fraud can he 
Snatched from thy embraces be. 

-Gently nurtured shall he grow ; 
■Bitter toil shall never know ; 
Never/ feel the gnawing pain 
■Of the captive's hopeless chain. 

And thou wilt bid him fix his eye 
On a bright home in the sky ; 
And teach him how to lift his prayer 
To a gracious Father there. 

I hear, too, of that God above, 
Some tell me that his name is Love ; 
That all his children, dark or fair, 
Alike his pitying favor share. 

They tell me that our Father bade 
All love the creatures he has made ; 
That none should ever dare oppress, 
- JBut seek each other's haopinees. 



Yet I see the white man gahi 
His riches by the Negro's pain ; 
See him close his eyes and ears 
To his brother's cries and teers. 

But, Lady, when thy look, so mild, 
Rests upon thine own fair child, 
Think, then, of one less fair, indeed, 
But one for whom thy heart should bleed. 

Born to his parents' wretched fate, 
Him no smiling hours await ; 
Toil, and scourge, and chain, his doorri, 
From the cradle to the tomb. 

When bow'd beneath his earthly woes, 
His faistting heart would seek repose, 
And listen to the holy call, 
Which bids him trust the Lord of all ; 

When he in lowly prayer would bend 
Before an everlasting Friend ; 
Learn how to reach those mansions blest, 
Where even he at length may rest ; 

By a stern master's jealous pride, 
This blessing, too, may be denied ; 
He may forbid his care-worn slave 
To look for hope beyond the grave. 

Oh ! if that blessed law be true, 
They tell me Jesus preached to you, 
'Tis well, perhaps, to veil its light, 
From the poor bondsman's aching sight. 

Lest too clearly he might trace 
The records of a Father's grace ; 
Read his own wrongs in words of flame, 
And his lost birthright proudly claim. 

Yet, white men, fear not ; even we, 
Despised, degraded, though we be, 
Have hearts to feel, to understand, 
And keep your Master's great command. 

That faith, 3 T our kinder brethren bring, 
Like Angels on their healing wing, 
To cheer us in the hour of gloom, 
With glimpses of a brighter home ; 

That faith, beneath whose hallow'd name, 
Ye work the deeds of sin and shame ; 
Which bids the sinner turn and live, 
Can teach the Negro to forgive. 

For all the gems of Afrie's coast, 
And fruits her palmy forests boast, 
I would not harm that boy of thine, 
Nor bid him groan and toil for mine. 

T would but, on my bended knee, 
Beseech that mine might be as free ; 
Child of the same indulgent Heaven, 
Might share the common blessings given. 

I would but, when the lisping tone 
Of thy sweet infant mocks thine own, 
That thou shouldst teach his earliest thought 
To spurn the wealth by slavery bought. 

I would but, when thy babe is prest 
Wilh transports to a father's breast, 
Thy gentle voice should plead the cause 
Of nature and her outraged laws ; 

Should bid that father break the chain 
In which he holds our wretched train, 
And by the love to thee he bears, 
Dispel the Negro Mother's fears. 

By thy pure, maternal joy, 
Bid him spare my helpless boy ; 
And thus a blessing on his own 
Seek from his Maker's righteous throne. 



