Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofthomasjr32rand 



ii*ii:ii 3:p:i5'ji>yii 



or 



THOMAS J. I« VNDOLPli, 



(OF AL15i:.MAKLi:,) 



IN THE 



HOU8E OF DELEGATES OF TIRGIM.l, 



ON THE 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY: 



JJelivered Satavdaij, Jan. 21,-1832. 



SECOND EDITION. 



This second eilition of the speerh of Mr. Randolph on the Abolition of Slavery, is 
published by gentlemeu favorable to the views which he has advocated. 



Printed by Thomas W. "While, opposite the Bell Tavern. 

18C2. 



{^^' '7573,% ^a.^ 






iS«3k-. 



IIOUSK OF DELEGATES OF VIIIGIXIA, 



WKDNKSDAY, .TvMM V 11, 1^32. 

Mr. Goode of rvlecklenburg, rose to move llic following resolu- 
tion : 

Jiesolvcdi Tliat the select committee raised on the subject of slaves, 
free negroes, and tiie incluiiclioly occurrences growing out of the tra- 
gical massacre in Soulliampton, he discharged from the consideraliDn 
of all petitions, memorials and ri'solutions, which have for their object, 
the manumission of persons held in servitude under the exi>ling laws 
of this commonwealth, and that it is not expedient to legislate on the 
subject. 

jVIk. Randolph moved the following substitute to be inserted after 
the word "Southampton :" 

"be instructed to inf|uirc into the expediency of suljinitling 

to the vote of the c|u;difi(>d voters in the several towns, cities, bo- 
roughs, and counties of tiiis commonwealth, the jU'opriety of j)roviding 
by law, that the children of all (eaiale slaves, who maybe born in this 
state, on or after the 4ih flay of July 1840, shall become the property 
of the commonwealth, the males at the ago of twenty-one years, and 
females at the age of eighteen, if detained by their owners within the 
limits of Virginia, until they shall respectively arrive at the ages albre- 
said, to be hired out until the nett sum arising therefrom, shall be suf- 
ficient to defray the expense of their removal, beyond the limits of the 
United States, and. that said committee have leave to report by bill or 
otherwise." 



MONDAY, January JG, 1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from the committee on the coloured population, 
presented the followii'.g report: 

The select committee, to whom was referred certain memorials, 
pra^-ing the passage of some law providing for the gradual abolition 
of slavery in the commonwealth, have, according to order, had the 
same under consideration, anil iiave come to the following resolution 
thereupon : 

Resolved as the opinion of this committee. That it is inexpedient for 
the present legislature to make any legislative enactment for the abo- 
lition of slavery. 

Mr. Preston moved that the resolution reported iVora the commit- 
tee, be amended, by striking out the word " inexpedient," and insert- 
ing the word ''expedient." 



4 

SATURDAY, January 21, 1832. 

On motion of Mr. Randolph of Albemarle, the Report of the 
committee on slaves, free negroes and mulattoes, and the amendment 
of Mr. Preston, were taken up ; when Mr. RANDOLPH rose and 
addressed the house as follows: 

Mr. Speaker, 

I feel in all its force, the embarrassing circumstances un- 
der which T throw myself upon the courtesy of this house. Unprepar- 
ed by the habits of my life, which have been agricultural and not pro- 
fessional, the little information 1 possess, having been gathered more 
from the study of men in the collisions of the business of an active 
life, than from books. I know, sir, I cannot do justice to the subject 
under consideration: I feel, that humble as my pretentions are, T can- 
not do justice to myself; the thoughts which flow in a sufficiently con- 
nected train in my closet, the words which occur with sufficient dis- 
tinctness to express them, all vanish in the presence of a public assem- 
blage, as mist before the sun. It would have been far more agreeable 
to me, to have been a silent spectator of the debate passing before me; 
to have witnessed the corruscations of wit, and the shock of argument 
between the contending champions; but, sir, having entered the lists 
imprudently, perhaps very imprudently, having received the onset of 
skilled and talented antagonists, I cannot now retreat with honor, I 
must defend myself as best I may ; believing myself sufficiently hon- 
oured to be deemed worthy of the attack of such distinguished gentle- 
men. 

In all the phases and aspects under which this subject has presented 
itself to the house,! recognize in it but the same thing, viz: the ques- 
tion of the expediency of legislation. The resolution of the gentle- 
man from Mecklenburg, (Mr. Goode,) involved this question; the 
amendment to it offered by myself, was but the quo modo of that legis- 
lation; the amendment of the gentleman from Montgomery. (Mr. Pres- 
ton,) to the report of the committee, expresses it directly. Under this 
view of the subject, with the leave of the house, I will take a retro- 
spective glance to the arguments used when the former resolution and 
amendment were under consideration, as applying to the proposition 
now before us. 

I will make a single remark to correct an erroneous impression, 
which has arisen from an expression used the other day by my friend 
from Campbell, (Mr. Rives,) " that this was the plan of Mr. Jeffer- 
son." It has been understood as conveying the idea that Mr. Jeffer- 
son had left a fully developed plan of abolition: this is not the fact. 
The idea is contained in his published works. I cannot now tell 
whether I received it from them, or from the impressions of social inter- 
course, probably from both: the impression has long been deepl}' im- 
bued in my mind. If in the resolution there is one suggestion worthy 
of notice, be the honour to him; whatever is objectionable, be the 
odium and disgrace upon my head. I should have made this expla- 
nation several days since, but consulting with friends more versed in 
the usages of public bodies, I was advised it would be time enough 



when I should address you in my own defence. The geiillcinnn from 
Petersl)nr^, (Mr. Hrown,) said that '• lliis was not llie plan of Mr. Jef- 
ferson :" ihis fail will he dev« loped in ihe course of ihls dehate. My 
collea^rue, (Mr. Wood,) said thai he di<l not know, liial ihis was the 
j>lan of Mr. Jefferson. lie rni^ht have known, sir, if h«- liad cliosen. 
to ask. 'I'he.se expressions tended lo convey the idea thai lliere was 
some concealment; an attempt to foist upon the house a plan bearing 
the authority of Mr. Jeflerson's name, which was not his. I do not 
belii've, sir, my collcati^nc intended to convey this idea. 

[Mr. Wood of All)«n)arl<', said he had not intended to convey the 
idea that his colleague had presented hi>^ plan as that of Mr. Jefl'erson, 
when it rerdly was not, nor (o intimate that his proposition was not in 
part the plan of Mr. Jell'erson. But he had expressed a doiihl whether 
Mr. JcllVrson would now present such a |)lan were he livinp:. It l»ad 
been far from liiui t(t impute to his colleafj^ne the intention of deceiving 
the housr, 1»\ j)i(>eiiiiiiM as .Mr. Jrllerson's, a plan which was not his.] 

Mii. Ka.ndoij'II. It will be borne in njiud, sir, that the amend- 
ment I oilered the other day, to the resolution of the meujber from 
Mecklenburg^, was a resolution of incpiiry only; that it pointed sim- 
ply to a specific object, and necessarily could not have the develope- 
ments of a bill or report; and many amendments and modifications 
must of necessity have been adopted, before it could have assumed 
that shape, in accordance with the developemcnt of my own ideas 
upon the subject. When resolutions arc favourably received, they are 
usually left to the discretion o( the committee, subject to the approval 
of the house, retainine: their generic character lo modify them into 
specific enactuKMits. It has not been the custom, it is not, and from 
the nature of ihini^s, never can be, to submit resolutions of imjuiry in 
the matured and expanded form of bills. This resolution proposed 
to inquire into the expediency of not allowinc: slaves, born subsequent 
to the \ear 1840, to be retained in the commonwealth, after the fe- 
males shall attain the age of 18, and the males 21 years ; and if re- 
tained to be removed by the commonwcalih, the expenses of such re- 
moval to be reujuneraled out of the property itself. The master is al- 
lowed IS and 21 ^ears after the birth of each, to remove them, and 28 
years are allowed before the first are required to be removed; a period 
in which, according to the bills of mortality, near three-fourths of the 
grown persons now living will have died, h in fact operates upon pos- 
terity, and not upon the [)resenl generation. It h vies no money lax upon 
the people — each slave pays his own removal by his hire. The number 
exported annually after the year 18G1, by their owners or the common- 
wealth, would amount to lour or five per cent. No slave now livino-, 
and none born prior lo 1840, would be subject lo the operation of the 
law. Emancipation in the state is forbidden, and not a part of liie 
plan. Before they attain respectively the ages of IS and 21, ihey 
may be sold out of the state by their owners, who would pocket the 
monej'. Eighty years will be necessary to work their entire extinc- 
tion; a period suliicienlly long for their gradual removal, and the in- 
troduction of free labour. If in I860, the evil is found irremediable, 
a repeal of the law will place us where we now stand. It is contend- 
ed, and I agree in the opinion, that they would prefer remaining here 



in bondage, to transportation to the coast of Africa, and no insurrec- 
tionary movement could be apprehended from the repeal. The legis- 
lature are not to act upon lliis plan until it has received the sanction 
of the people. It is the people who are interested — it is the people 
vvho are exposed to the dangers of its retention, as 5,000 to one com- 
pared to this house. They are the best judges of their own interest, 
and the necessities for the limitation of that interest. I cannot con- 
cur in the views of gentlemen vvho distrust the people ; who fear 
them ; and who will not submit to their decision in this matter. — 
Great reprobation has been thrown upon this plan, because it is 
said to contain no guarantee for property. The resolution does not 
prescribe the condition upon which it shall become the property of the 
commonwealth. Whether by the surrender of such portions as are 
not removed within the time specified — whether by payment for it at 
birth, at its fidl value, or at a reduced average, or such portions of it 
at this age, as the funds of the commonwealth would justify, to be ap- 
portioned in such manner as may be provided by law, to be left with 
the masters of their mothers until their services shall have paid the ex- 
pense of reaiing, or in any other manner that the wisdom of this house 
should direct. I appeal to my friend from Goochland to say that 
these were my opinions expressed to him before miy discussion took 
place on this subject in this body, and that it is not an after thought 
to elude the force of gentlemen's arguments. To have inserted all 
these provisions in a resolution to inquire, would not have been war- 
ranted by the usages of this house. Gentlemen have chosen to argue 
upon this resolution as if it were a bill. It was not for me to prescribe 
the course of their arguments. They have chosen to erect phantoms 
at which to charge their careering chivalry, and display the force and 
dexterity with which tliey could wield their weapons. I could not pro- 
hibit thetn this indulgence. They were members of the committee to 
whom it was proposed to refer this resolution, and might have mould- 
ed it to suit their views. As they have said so much about the pro- 
perty feature, I will take a passing notice of it. I do not concur in 
the abstract opinions of the gentlemen of the West. I cannot con- 
cur with the hopeless, ultra absoluteism of the South. It has been the 
course of legislation here, to consider slaves as exclusively persons, as 
exclusively property, or as partaking jointly of both, as the exigencies 
of the commonwealth have required. Under the constitution of the 
United States, slaves are deemed persons, degraded, it is true, into 
two-fifths, but nevertheless as persons, and representation is claimed 
for them as such. Under several of our laws, the^^ are deemed exclu- 
sively persons, inasmuch as the master cannot kill them as he would 
his oxen ; nor can he maim or disfigure them — he cannot give them 
the ear-marks of his cattle or his sheep. For offences they are tried 
as persons, and, with the exception of the jury trial, (to which they 
are not entitled,) can claim of right, and are entitled to counsel to 
defend them — to all the formalities of law, and all the rules of evi- 
dence. In most of our police laws, they are deemed exclusively per- 
sons, and for violations of them are punished as such. This, then, 
having been the approved course of our legislation, the people, 
through their representatives, have the right to legislate upon them iu 



this instance, ciilier as persons or properly, as their wisdom and the 
exigencies of the commonwealth shall direct. The ^ontleman from 

Diiiwiddic, ({^iii. Hrondnax,) denies to iIil- non-siavchohh.'r the rifzht 
to vole iij)()ii this (jueslion, yvl he admit-* that this body can decide it. 
The non-slave-h<ddcrs, sir, constitute a numerons body of our consti- 
tuents. He admits the jjowir of the representative, but denies this 
jiovver to his constilucnl. 'J'his apfjcars to me sirnncn and inconsis- 
tent doctrine. lie gives to the creatiin.' the pDwer tliat he denies to 
the creator; to the agent what he denies to the principal; to the ser- 
vant tiiat power which he denies to the master. 

[Cjcn. liroilnax rose to explain. He had argued that tlie legislature 
ivas not the creature, of the people^ in consequence of the division of 
political power which was agreed upon by the late convention, by 
which tlie prrpondt rriMcy was given to the Kast, and it would be a de- 
parture iVom thill j)riiK i[)l<*, to submit tiiis sultject to liic voters of the 
state.] 

Mr. Randolph. The gcntlcfnan cither makes a distinction where 
there does not exist a di/l'erence, or he argues because the peoj)le of 
one portion of the state have acquired more powcn* than the people of 
another, that the people of the whole state have lost a portion of their 
rights, a conclusion to which I feel assured my constituents will not be 
disposed to come. The plan suggested in the amendment is so dis- 
tant in its operation, that it aflects our children and not ourselves. {( 
the children of noji-slaveholders, should possess slaves, certainly the 
non-slaveholder would have an interest in the distant increase of them, 
and a right to decide any queslion affectiug them by his vote now. — 
On the contrary, it often happens, that the children of slaveholders do 
not possess slaves. I, Mr. Speaker, know many instances of this: 
they would be less intcrestctl in the decision than tlie non-slavcholder. 
Perhaps the gentleman intends to offer us some law of entail which 
shall keep these castes perpetually distinct in their descendants, ii 
you deny to the non-slaveholder the right to vote upon this question, 
in which his property and the lives of iiis family are interested, is it not 
just that he should have some sutlicient guarantee from liis wealthy 
neighbour, the slaveholder, that his wife and children should not be 
butchered by his slaves .'' Suppose, sir, hydrophobia recmreil so often 
in dogs as to produce a sense of insecurity in the people of this com- 
monwealth, the danger of being bitten at any moment while employed 
in their dally avocations ; would the gentleman from Dinwiddir con- 
lend that none but doghokiers ought to have the right to decide tiie 
question, w hethcr the dogs should be destroyed or not ^ are not the 
children of the non-dogholder as likely to be bitten and to die of this 
frightful disease as the family of the dot;liolder .'* Yet, sir, you will 
not allow the non-slaveholder to vote in the decision touching that 
property wliose benefits I acknowledge he does not participate, but in 
whose inconveniences and }ierils he has more than his fidl share. It is 
well known that it has been the practice, if not the policy of the large 
slaveholder, to make the poor man the instrument of their police and 
their punishments to their slaves; which has begotten hostility between 
the slave and the less wealthy, that makes their condition the most pe- 
rilous in all insurrectionary movements. The gentleman from Bruns- 



wick, (Mr. Shell,) who amused us so much yesterday with iiis wit and 
his genius, in converting a grave subject into one of merriment and 
laughter, admitted tiiat if the public safety required it, if the case of 
the salus populi (safety of the people) existed, this property might be 
limited. Now, sir, this case of the snlus populi, although not existing 
at this moment, may be proven with tlie accuracy of arithmetical calcu- 
lation, with the certainty of mathematical demonstration, with all those 
proofs that bring conviction to the human mind, to exist in a certain 
future. Let us see the proofs. I will quote, in part, the statistics of 
the gentleman from Dinwiddie, whose accuracy cannot be questioned. 
Judging the future by the past, in 40 years the coloured population in 
Eastern Virginia, will exceed the white 200,000. In the last 40 years, 
the whites in the same district have increased 51 per cent. : the blacks 
186 per cent. : 40 years ago, the whites exceeded the coloured 25,000 : 
the coloured now exceed the whites 81,000; a nett gain of the blacks 
over the whites in forty \^ears, of 100,000; and these results too, during 
an exportation of near 260,000 slaves since the year 1790, now per- 
haps the fruitful progenitors of half a million in other states. By re- 
ference to document No. 16 on your table, you will perceive that in 
the year 1830, of that part of the population of 10 years old and under, 
the blacks exceed the whites 26 per cent. : over that age only 3 per 
cent. What a change will not 18 years make for the worse .^ when these 
children shall be grown. What will not 40 j'ears, with its geometrical 
progression evolve, when they shall become fathers and mothers, and 
some of them grandmothers.? If exportation ceases, some of those now 
within the hearing of my voice, may live to see the coloured population 
of Virginia 2,000,000 or 2,500,000 : children now born may live to see 
them 3,000,000} determining the increase by their average increase in 
the United States in the last 40 years. Sir, is not the case of the 5a- 
lus populi demonstrated to exist in the certain future? Who vvill be 
so hardy as to assert, that when the time arrives, a remedy can be ap- 
plied : who will say, that 2,000,000 can be attempted to be removed : 
they will say to you long before that, " we will not go." Here, sir, 
applies that wise maxim of the law, ^^venienti occurrite morboj^^ (meet 
the coming ill.) 

The gentleman from Dinwiddie, or some other gentleman, fori have 
had such an host upon me, that I must be excused if I cannot recollect 
whence every shot catne, argued, that successful insurrection would be 
impossible ; that if the powers of the state were not sufficient to quell 
it, the United States would inundate the country with her troops. I 
admit it, sir, but if her intervention is to be waited for, she may pro- 
bably reclaim a country smoking with the blood of its population. — 
She may reclaim districts, the titles of whose lands shall have reverted 
to the commonwealth from the extinction of the heirs of their former 
proprietors. Be this however as it may, there is one circumstance to 
which we are to look as inevitable in the fullness of time ; a dissolu- 
tion of this Union. God grant it may not happen in our time, or that 
of our children ; but sir, it must come, sooner or later; and when it 
does come, border war follows it, as certain as the night follows the 
day. An enemy upon your frontier ofl'ering arms and asylum to this 
population, tampering with it in your bosom, when your citizens shall 



niMPch to repel tin* inv:ul»T, ilieir l.Miiili<> liut< lirrrfl :iii<l tliiir lionic* de- 
s()l;ii('<J ill llie rcnr, llie i^pear will l;ill liom llic \\ arricu'.s grasp, his 
liearl may be of steel, but it must (juail. Suppose an invaMon by your 
enemy, in part uiili Ma<:k troops, speakiiif^ the same lanp^uat^c, of the 
same nation, burninii; willi enilniNia^ni (or the liberation of their race; 
if tliey arc not cru^lnd ilie moment lli«y put foot upon Nonr soil, they 
roll forward, an hourly swellinu^ mass; your energies are paralizcd, 
y(jnr power is (^one ; the morasses of the low lands, the fastnesses of 
tin* mountains, cannot save your wives and your children from cJe- 
strnclion. Sir, wc cannot war with these disadvantages; [)cace, igno- 
ble, abject peace; peace upon any conditions that an enemy may 
offer, nnist be accepted. Arc we then prepared to barter the liberty 
of our children for slaves lor them. Is it not wise policy, while tlic 
evil is still wiihin our grasp; when we can gradually obliterate it, with 
gentle forbearance to all; while we can still restrain it, by the strong 
hand of power, or cru>h its movements in blood if necessary, to pre- 
pare the way lor better prospects to our children, brighter hopes to 
posterity. 

The gentleman has objected to the West deciding this question. — 
He has again misconstrued the resolution. It is, or intended to be 
permissive and not obligatory, upon the subsecjuent lejiislature. It is 
to ascertain uncciuivocally the sense of tlic peo|)le, that this house 
might be guided by their wishes. No man would dosire so great a 
revolution by a small majority. We have heard enough here, sir, to 
intimate to us unequivocally, that we must act with a majority whose 
power shall awe into obedience, any portion of the state, if any such 
there be, which should prove disloyal. He has objected to the plan 
as being t(^o deferred in its commeneenient ; others have objected that 
it commences so soon: this pro\es iliat it has the character of mode- 
ration, for it strikes the medium between the views of diflerent indi- 
viduals. 

The gentleman from Fauquier, (Mr. iMarshall,) has objected be- 
cause it does not come from the people, and is too exclusive. On all 
occasions of vital interest, where the prosperity of the commonwealth 
is endangered, it is the ilnly of the legislature to take the lead, it is 
their duty to call public attention to the evil; such was the practice 
of our ancestors during that war which tore them from the parent 
stem, and gentlemen have urgcil, and I agree with them, that this 
revolution is not less important in its conseipiences. Attract and con- 
centrate public opinion on the subject; obtain a full, an unipiestioned 
expression of the public will. ^Members can then act unilerstandingly, 
advisedly. No member will then fear the misconception of the will 
of liis constituents, his course will be decisive, and no longer doubt- 
ful. It will not do to submit an abstract proposition of abolition to 
the ])cople. Abolition may be to-day, to-morrow, the next year or 
ten years hence. It may be sudden, convulsing society to its centre, 
or it may be gradual and harmless; all this they must know, to decide 
correctly; you must give them the general principles of the plan you 
intend to pursue; they must see and understand it in all its bearings; 
weigh its elfects upon individual interests, and the general prosperity; 

2 



10 

tlien, sir, they can give yon an unequivocal demonstration of that will, 
which shall be to me, the polar star of my political life. 

The gentleman from Brunswick, (Mr. Gholson,) spoke of the popu- 
lar voice, when it should be heard among members ; he spoke of the 
meeting held by the citizens of Albemarle on this subject, in derision, 
comparing it to a Clay meeting, (doubtless in his county.) J\ly col- 
league too, united to discredit this expression of the opinion of his 
constituents. He has been abused by his correspondents. I have it 
from honorable gentlemen who were present, that it was one of the 
largest ever held in the court house. The meetings at the courts of 
Albemarle, in a village of near 1500 inhabitants, in the centre of a 
fertile and populous district, are always large, intelligent and highly 
respectable. This was presided over by the individual most distin- 
guished for his long public services, and the dignity of the offices he 
had filled, of any man now among us. He opposed the second reso- 
lution, and it was carried by an overwhelming majority, in defiance 
of his opposition. This resolution was read by my colleague in his 
place, for the purpose of discrediting it. I yesterday received a letter 
informing me who had presented this resolution; it was presented by 
a talented friend, whom I know to concur with me in the plan con- 
tained in the resolution I submitted. A number of individuals who 
were there present had known of this plan and approved it. Among 
my neighbors, on my recent visit to my home, it was a subject of con- 
versation, and approved, as I understood, by all; they were individu- 
als who owned ten, thirty, fifty, sixty and seventy negroes; many of 
them earned by a long course of frugal and successful industry. — 
Little did they or I think of the high evidence of patriotism and gene- 
rosity they evinced, when they proposed to surrender the post nati of 
these. Honest, generous hearted men, little did they imagine that 
when this idea was proposed to others, that it should be received with 
deep and damning reprobation, as a scheme of robbery and plunder. 
Gentlemen may suppose that I had an influence over these neighbors. 
No, sir, they were individuals from whom I had been separated by an 
hereditary feud. I had rarely concurred in opinion, or acted with 
them. Whatever have been the causes which have separated us, they 
shall exist on my part no longer. I have learned here to appreciate 
their virtue and their patriotism, and shall feel myself proud to claim 
them as friends and neighbors. I do not fear, sir, to meet the 
public award in the conscientious discharge of my duty. The high 
minded feelings of the gentleman from Brunswick, teach him that lust 
of office is not the sole motive of action with an honorable man. My 
colleague, (Mr. Wood,) has dwelt much upon wild and visionary 
schemes. He has argued both sides of this question, doubtless for 
the benefit of the house: he has been the advocate of slavery, and 
avowed himself the friend of abolition. His arguments appear to me 
to have been inconsistent. He spoke of the massacre of Southamp- 
ton as a trifling aft'air; this he could not have meant; it escaped him 
in the heat of debate. I can assure the worthy member from South- 
ampton, that he did not mean it; and I will ask liim when he shall 
return to his constituents, to say to them, that the people of Albemarle 
mourned for them as brethren of the same family; they had our sym- 



11 

pailiics ; our <]cp\i commiseration; there was not a bosom wliicli did 
not lif ;ive its si^li; llicre was i)'>t a lu'art amoiit^ lis that did not led 
its (iniil of aL»^()iiy al tlic recital of ihoir sufl*crir)f^f<. 

Th(? ^(•iitlrmaii from Brunswick, (Mr. (ilioison,) said that the lej^is- 
latiire had even douhlcd the propriety of sul)miitin^- the Convention 
(jiiotioi) to tlic pcoj)!t', when they harj the names of 40,000 mrmori- 
ali>t> on ihrir lahlr, pra\iiii^ it. f liaNe understood the history of that 
niiiii r di/lerently, sir. 'J'he Ict^ishiture did doubt, Ijut their doubts 
were solved by their masters, the people ; they bade them submit it, 
and tlwy dare not disobey. It was njadc a test rpiestion at the elec- 
tions, and genllenuMi were not returufd here, unless they [jh-du'ed them- 
selves to vote for its submission. He believed it would be danf^erous 
to atternj)t to reinov(j this j)ost nnti, because exportation would be 
deenu'd a punisijinent. These post nfilij if none had been sent out 
by their masters, would amount to between four and five per centum 
per annum. The young ones would be too young to join in rebel- 
lion. "^I'hosc over 21 were not to be removed. \Vould they rebel be- 
cause they were not to be j)uni>he(lr' Certainly not, sir. He has 
said, that if this cpiestion was submitted to the people, laws would be 
passed in other states, prohibiting the introduction of our slaves into 
ihem. Ife has ascribed the cause to tlie ell'ect, the antecedent to the 
succeeding. These laws have already passed. I hope, sir, they may 
not be operative. Ihe gentleman from Petersburg, (Mr. Brown,) 
and the gentleman from Brunswick, have spoken with much exulta- 
tion of what liiey arc plcaserl to call tiic decrease of the ratio of the 
colored population since 1790. Since 1790, the blacks have increased 
upon the whites in East Virginia, 106,000. Tlicre was a regular in- 
crease of the ratio from 1790 to 1820. The ratio is now, in the whole 
state, one-third of one per cent, less tiian in 1790; and this has been 
cilected by the revulsion of prices of 1819, which tlirew thousands of 
slaves upon the market in the follviwlnii- years, and swept over the land 
with the devastation of a tornado, uprtioting the proudest oaks, and 
])reaking the noblest hearts. May God in his mercies avert a reduc- 
tion by similar means. The gentleman from Brunswick has said, that 
when Pennsylvania and the other northern states abolished slavery, 
the we^tern states were unsettled, and many of them went tiilther. 1 
tliink, sir, they abolished by emancipation without expulsion; and 
blacks never go west, except from a slave to a free state. But Loui- 
siana was not then acquired. A new worltl has been opened. Tlie 
regions watered by the arms of the mighty Mississippi — the rival of 
the Amazons and the La Plata, the Ganges and the Nile, whose sources 
arc unknown, except to the wandering savage ami the darincr hunter; 
the destineti scats of future empires, unexplored and unpeoj)leil. Here 
the African will find boundless forests to fell with his forced and re- 
luctant labor. He will find the wide expanse of varied soils to deso- 
late. Here he will pass away from the wasted lands of Virginia, and 
from a people, whose only curse was to have him thrust upon them. — 
The maledictions which the gentleman has so glowingly depicted as 
falling upon my head, I can bear cheerfully with this house. I can 
share with the people of my native state — with them I can abide 
through weal and through woe : but when the battle has been tbught, 



12 

and irrevocably lost, 1 must bear my children to a land, where, in the 
current of time, they will not descend to inevitable perdition. 

The gentleman from Dinwiddle spoke of the mischievous effects of 
gentlemen's offering plans, and not being prepared to vote for them. 
I repel with ijidignation ihe inferences of his remark. I repudiate 
eveiy thing inconsistent with the character of an honorable man. The 
gentleman distorted my expressions. I explained, I repeated, that I 
was prepared to vote for the submission of this plan to the people — 
that I was not prepared, and that I would not vote for any legislative 
act upon this subject, which was not to be submitted to the people. 
He repeated his distortion. It was what I had not expected from a 
fair and courteous adversary — it is what I had least expected from the 
high character and honorable feelings of the gentleman from Din- 
widdle. 

[Mr. Brodnax rose to explain. It was singular, he said, that the 
gentleman should, after having taken a rest of eight days, make an 
attack upon him in regard to a matter which was fully explained at 
the time. He had stated, that the gentleman was not prepared to vote 
on any specific plan, but wished to submit the subject to the people. 
The gentleman from Albemarle, rose and made an explanation, which 
placed his opinions in precisely the light in which he (Mr. B.) at first 
understood them, and he proceeded with his remarks accordingly. It 
had not entered his mind to impute to the gentleman from Albemarle 
a dishonorable course of conduct.] 

Mr. Randolph. Many honorable gentlemen of this house under- 
stood my explanation distinctly, and took the same view of this mat- 
ter that I have done. I felt too indignant under what 1 conceived the 
contumely of the gentleman from Dinwiddie, to attempt to correct him 
a second time, until I should come to it in the regular course of this 
debate. I have alluded to it now, not from any unkind feelings to- 
wards that gentleman, but from a sense of what was due to myself. I 
feared, from the apologetic strain of his prefatory remarks, that he 
would depart from the tract of just argument. He reminded me of 
a certain Trozes Echelle, executioner, I think, sir, to Lewis XI. who 
always addressed his victims in the kindest and most endearing terms, 
while he was adjusting upon them the noose wliich was to launch them 
into eternity. I would abandon my own views, and become a prose- 
lyte to the gentleman's plan, or any other feasible plan to effect this 
grand object, could my understanding become convinced of its practi- 
cability. He levies a tax on the people, of $200,000 per annum; he 
proposes to export with this sum, annually, 6,000, being the annual 
increase of slaves and free negroes. The exportation has averaged 
8,500 for the last 20 years. If any check is given to this latter ex- 
port, we have an increasing population. Under his scheme, I think, 
sir, the expenditure is too great for the eliiciency of the plan. He 
asks annually from the generosity and patriotism of individuals, these 
6,000 young grown slaves of the capital stock of the present effective 
labor of the country, and he can see nothing wrong in it; yet he 
views with the most damning opprobrium, my application to the same 
patriotism and generosity for the j^ost nad, those to be born after the 
year 1840, a, thing not now in existence, and not likely to be availa- 



13 

ble in onr IJvc^. !lo lins spokm of the liiipol*My of snhinlllint^ a 
hlaliiK? lo tin" pr'f)|)l«\ Ih'oni^lit to liJiv«- snitl llic general priiicijiles 
of a statiitr. 'J'lie pc<»plo arc tin? best jiifjges of their own interest — 
They oiiulit Ki be consnh«<i in niMiiers deeply and vitally interesting 
to them — There is no dant^er in tin in — If he kn<\v tlnin as well as 1 
do, he wonid not fear tluni. I have oUen broken the poor nian's 
bread, and shared his |)allel— I have enjoyed his hospitality. There 
is noi a more virtuous, a more just, or kinder hearted people on earth, 
than uliai are called the conunon people ofVir^^inia. 1 believe them, 
W not the wisest, the safest d^po>itorie^ (d' onr rip his. I prefer m\- 
seir honest ignorance to interested intelligence. !!<• has expressed 
his belief, that if Mr. Jellerson had lived, he wonld have seen this 
plan of abolition more in)practicable now than at the revisal after the 
revolution, lie has not lived, sir, to sec this revolution in the public 
niiiiii of Virginia. He has not livrd to see a majority of the house 
of delegales in favor of abolition in liie abstract. Sixty-two years 
ago, when a proposition was made in the legislature of \ irginia, by 
one of the oldest, ablest, an<l most respected members of that l)ody, 
to ameliorate (not to abolish slavery, as njy friend from Montgomery 
the other day had suj)po>ed) the condition of the slave, who was 
scarcely known to the law but as property, he was treatefl with the 
ntmosl indecorum, and denounced as an enemy of his country — Now 
it can be debated here among gentlemen without insult. To those, 
Mr. Speaker, who have more bile than brain, the softness of whose 
intellect must be compensated by the hardness of their words, we 
must allow the few advantages which nature has given them. 

The gentleman frou) Petersburg, (Mr. J^rown) stated that "this 
was not the plan of Mr. Jelferson ;" that it was "a vision of his phi- 
lanthropic mind." It would have been wry indelicate in me, sir, to 
have quoted Mr. Jeflerson as authority to this house upon any subject ; 
but when in addition to the talents arrayed against me, and which have 
pre>sed upon me so -heavily — the weight of his name is to be thrown 
into the scale to press me down still farther, it becomes my duty to 
show that his opinions arc at least not against me, and that they may 
be with me. For this purpose, I beg leave to read some extracts from 
a letter of his which 1 hold in my hand. "Nursed and educated in 
the daily habit of seeing the degraded condition, both bodily aiul 
mental, of those unfortunate beings — not reflecting that that degra- 
dation was ver}' much the work of themselves and their fathers, few 
minds had yet doubted but that they were as legitimate sul)jects of 
property as their horses or cattle." Again, sir: "Your solitary, but 
welcome voice is the first which has brought this sounil to my car, and 
1 have considered the general silence which prevails on this subject, 
as indicating an apathy unfavorable to every hope. Yet the hour of 
emancipation is advancing in the march of time. It will come, and 
whether brought on by the generous energy of our own minds, or by 
the blootly process ol' St. Domingo, excited and conducted by the 
power of our present enemy, if once stationed permanently within our 
country, and oHering asylum and arms to the oppressed, is a leaf of 
our history not yet turned over. I hope then, my dear sir, you will 
reconcile yourself to your country, and its unfortunate condition, that 



14 

you will not lessen our stock of sound disposition by withdrawing 
your portion from the mass. That on the contrary, 3'ou will come 
forward in the public councils, become the missionary of this doctrine, 
truly Christian, insinuate and inculcate it softly but steadily through 
the medium of writing and conversation, associate others in your la- 
bors, and when the phalanx is formed, bring on and press the propo- 
sition perseveriilgly until its accomplishment. It is an encouraging 
observation that no good measure was ever proposed, which, if duly 
pursued, failed to prevail in the end." 

[Mr. Brown rose to explain that he had no other information on the 
subject than what he derived from a letter of Mr. Jeflerson's to Jared 
Sparks, in the fourth volume of his correspondence, in which he re- 
cognized slaves as property, and declared that where they were taken 
from the owner by government, adequate compensation must be made.] 

Mr. Randolph. I know that Mr. Jeflerson considered them as 
property, nor am I aware that they ever have been considered other- 
wise by any one. Mr. Jefferson fixed the price of the post nati at 
$12 50 cents, which would indicate the belief of the necessity of a 
compromise between the holder and the public. The letter which I 
have just read, is dated August, 1814. It appears, then, that in 1770, 
1814, 1824, he still deemed abolition indispensable to the safety of 
the country. These dreams of his lasted a long time — some sixty 
years. 

I agree with gentlemen in the necessity of arming the state for inter- 
nal defence. I will unite with them in any effort to restore confidence 
to the public mind, and to conduce to the sense of the safety of our 
wives and our children. Yet, sir, I must ask upon whom is to fall the 
burden of this defence; not upon the lordly masters of their hundred 
slaves, who will never turn out except to retire with their families when 
danger threatens. No, sir, it is to fall upon the less wealthy class of 
our citizens; chiefly upon the non-slaveholders. I have known patrols 
turned out where there was not a slaveiiolder among them, and this 
is the practice of the country. 1 have slept in times of alarm quietly 
in bed without having a thought of care, while these individuals own- 
ing none of this property themselves, were patrolling under a com- 
pulsory process, for a pittance of seventy-five cents per twelve hours, 
the very curtilage of my house, and guarding that property, which 
was alike dangerous to them and myself. After all, this is but an ex- 
pedient. As this population becomes more numerous, it becomes less 
productive. Your guard must be increased, until finally its profits 
will not pay for the expense of its subjection. Slavery has the eflect 
of lessening the free population of a country. The wealthy are not 
dependent upon the poor for those aids and those services, compensa- 
tion for which enables the poor man to give bread to his family. The 
ordinary mechanic arts are all practised by slaves. In the servitude 
of Europe in the middle ages, in years of famine, the poor had to 
barter their liberty for bread : they had to surrender their liberty to 
some wealthy man to save their families from the horrors of famine. 
The slave was sustained in sickness and in famine upon the wealth of 
his master, who preserved him as he would any other species of pro- 
perty. All the sources of the poor man's support were absorbed by 



15 

liim. !•) this country, lie cannot become a slave, hut lie rtles to some 
ullier country more congenial to liis condition, and vvlierc he who sup- 
ports liiuj-rii \>y li()no>t hihor is not degraded in his caste. Those who 
remain, rdyiuf^ upon the support of casual tMnploymenl, ofit-n become 
more dc|_M;idrd in lh«ir condilion llian th<' slavr-H themselves. 

'I'hc genlleman iVoin lVlcr>l;urg has sjHjUen of ihe dej)ression which 
tills s( heme wouhl produce in tlie value of slave properly. Lei us 
examine his position. No slave now livini^, or to bo born prior to the 
year IHIO, would be at all operaU'd uj)on by this plan. The young 
slaves now livinj^, and those to be born prior to 1^10, would be in 
their prime lor elleclivo labor, from 1800 to 1870; biil this is the pe- 
riod at which those born between 1840 and 1850 are beiui; removed, 
and labor must become scarce at this moment, until it is supplied by 
iVee labor. Is the value of labor diminished by an increased demand 
for labor? Certainly not. J5ut of necessity eidianced. Then, sir, 
the value of the youni^ slaves now livint,'-, and to be born prior to 
1840, who will be held to bondaf^^e for lile, will be enhanced, because 
their labor will be in increased demand; but the female slaves, whose 
oirsjirinir after 1840, are prohibited from being- kept in the state, will 
be diminished. They will be diminished in value to retain them, but 
not to sell them out of the slate. They would sell as well for expor- 
tation as they did before. We will take the whole subject as a calcu- 
lation of profit and loss. We know, sir, that if nothing is done to- 
wards ultimate abolition, that there are thousands of families in the 
state read}' to abandon it from utter despair of the future. These will 
throw large bodies of land upon the market; the monied men from 
the same distrust arc not disposed to vest a dollar in land; the inevi- 
table result is an alarming depression in the value of real property: 
no man can foretell to what extent it will decline. As the tide of emi- 
gration flows, those who remain feel themselves more insecure, and 
become anxious to follow in the footsteps of those who have gone 
before them. Those emigrants, warned by ills real or imaizinarv 
here, will seek asylums mostly in free states; their slaves will be 
thrown upon the market in such numbers as to reduce the value of 
this property also. \ ou have then on one haiid, if the hope of abo- 
lition should be held out, an increase in the value of your young male 
slaves, a sustained or an increased value in your landed property, (for 
lands are always higher in the free, than in slave slates.) wiih a de- 
pression in the value of female slaves. On the oilier, you have the 
prospect of entire prostration of the value of real estate, and a pro- 
bable depression of slaves generally: on one hand hope, on the other, 
despair. The gentleman has spoken of ihc increase of the female 
slaves being a part of the profit: it is admitted; but no great evil can 
be averted, no good attained, without some inconvenience. It may be 
questioned, how far it is desirable to foster and encourage this branch 
of protit. It is a practice, and an increasing practice in parts of Vir- 
ginia, to rear slaves for market. How can an honorable mind, a pa- 
triot, and a lover of his country, bear to see this ancient dominion, 
rendered illustrious by the noble devotion ancJ patriotism of her sons 
in the cause of liberty, converted into one grand menagerie where 
men are to be reared for market like oxen for the shambles. Is it 



belter, is it not worse, than the slave trade, that trade which enlisted 
the labor of the good and the wise of every creed and every clime to 
abolish it? The trader receives the slave, a stranger in language, 
aspect and manner, from the merchant who has brought him from the 
interior. The ties of father, mother, husband and child, have all been 
rent in twain; before he receives him, his soul has become callous. — 
But here, sir, individuals, whom the master has known from infancy, 
whom he has seen sporting in the innocent gambols of childhood, who 
have been accustomed to look to him for protection, he tears from the 
mother's arms, and sells into a strange country among strange people, 
subject to cruel task-masters. In my opinion, sir, it is much worse. 
He has compared slave property to a capital in money. I wish it 
were money, sir, or any thing else than what it is. It is not money, 
it is labor; it is the labor which produces that of which money is the 
representative. The interest on money is 4 to 6 per cent. The hires 
of male slaves is about 15 per cent, upon their value: in ten years or 
less, you have returned your principal with interest. Thus it is with 
much of the 100,000,000 of property, the loss of which the gentle- 
man has so eloquently depicted as ruining the countrj^ He has at- 
tempted to justify slavery here, because it exists in Africa, and has 
stated that it exists all over the world. Upon the same principle, he 
could justify Mahometanism, with its plurality of wives, petty wars 
for plunder, robbery and murder, or any other of the abominations 
and enormities of savage tribes. Does slavery exist in any part of 
civilized Europe.^ No, sir, in no part of it. America is the only 
civilized Christian nation that bears the opprobrium. In every other 
country where civilization and Christianity liave existed together, they 
have erased it from their codes, they have blotted it out from the page 
of their history. He has attempted to reconcile us to the dangers of 
negro slavery, by comparison with slavery as it existed among the 
ancients. There is one view of this subject which has escaped the 
gentleman, and which I think reverses his conclusions. The slaves of 
tlie ancients were of the same species of the human race; they were 
of different nations it is true, taken in war, but nevertheless white, 
bearing no distinctive specific mark, stamped upon their countenances, 
which should designate them through illimitable generations as a dis- 
tinct race. In the march of events their blood mingled with their 
masters; all varieties of dialect or language, the slight differences of 
aspect and countenance became blended into one mass. These, from 
individual genius and assiduity, from high moral and intellectual quali- 
ties, could rise separately into the higher classes. Such was Esop, 
Phasdrus, Narses, Terence, and the father of Juvenal, who have trans- 
mitted their names to an imaiortal posterity, while their proud masters 
sleep in oblivion with the common herd. To rise by single merit was 
practicable: there was no inducement to attempt to elevate violently 
a caste with whom they had no connnunity of interest or feeling. The 
ancients even forbade badges of slavery to be worn, fearing to mark 
them too plainly, lest they niight see their own strength; and with all 
this precaution, Italy was ravaged by servile wars. The slave Spar- 
tacus kept the field for three years in the heart of Italy, repeatedly 
defeating consular armies. But, sir, how different is it with the Afri- 



17 

can: nature haa stamped upon liim tlie indelible mark ul his species: 
no lapse of time or generations, no dime or culture can weaken or 
oblitL'raie Jier impression from liis countenance. On the hurninf^ sands 
oC AlVica, in the snowy rep:ions of Canada, as the naked hunter of 
his native woods, pursuing with the poisoned dart the lion or the ele- 
phant, or InTo, sir, after two hundred years of culture, it remains un- 
faded, uiichauL^ed, and unchangeable. No matter what the grandeur 
of his soul, the elevation of iiis thou|zht, the extent of his knowledge, 
or thr purity of his character; he may be a Newton or a Des Cartes, 
a Tell or a ^V^'^sI^mL! ton, he is chained down by adamantine fetters; 
he cannot rear him^eiriVom the earth without elevalit)g his whole race 
with iiim, to the utter destruction of all above him. Here is the 
danf^er; here is the melancholy diflerence between modern and ancient 
slavery. The descendants of the European and the African, cannot 
exist upon the same soil in an e(|uality of condition; one will govern 
by force, the other will rebel in bloody massacre, to be repressed by 
the exterminating vengeance of the white man. No one can doubt, 
sir, but that the power of exteruji nation is now in our hands. Yet 
none can calculate the actions of brutal ignorance and moral degra- 
dation under the impulses of superstition, fanaticism or folly. The 
gentleman has appealed to the Christian religion in justification of 
glaver}'. I would ask him upon what part of those pure doctrines 
does he rely; to which of those sublime precepts does he advert to 
sustain his position? Is it that which teaches charity, justice and 
good will to all, or is it that which teaches " that ye do luilo others 
as ye would they should do unto your" 

[Mr. Newton said, he supposed the gentleman from Albemarle had 
alluded to some remarks which he (Mr. N.) had made the other day. 
If his allusion had not been to him, he should not debate the subject; 
but if he did, he would proceed and ofler a few remarks. He had told 
the gentleman from Petersburg, that after his eloquent speech, he 
(Mr. N.) would not attempt an argument on llie subject : that he would 
burn his notes and not attempt to add a capital to a perfect pillar. — 
But if the gentleman from Albemarle had alluded to him, he should 
take occasion to address the House in a few brief remarks.] 

Mr. Randolph. The dilfercnce between the gentleman from West- 
moreland and myself is political. 1 did not suppose, in his denuncia- 
tion of democracy the other day, that he had proposed to hang me up 
on the wall as a scare-crow to all future democrats, as a terror to all 
evil doers against his own principles. I believed his allusion was to 
the political opinions I entertained : our political principles are as 
wide asunder as the poles. I am a democrat; my highest wish would 
be, to have the name inscribed upon my tomb. He denounces de- 
mocracy, and would stamp the name of democrat upon the wall a$ a 
mark of infamy: here, sir, is the difference between us. 

3 



18 



The following is the Letter from which the above extracts were tahen i 

MONTICELLO, August 25, '14. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of July 31, was duly received, and was read 
with peculiar pleasure. The sentiments breathed through the whole 
do honor to both the head and heart of the writer. IVJine on the sub- 
ject of the slavery of negroes have long since been in possession of ihe 
public, and time has only served to give them stronger root. The 
love of justice and the love of country plead equally the cause of these 
people, and it is a mortal reproach to us that they sliould have pleaded 
it so long in vain, and should have produced not a single effort, nay I 
fear not much serious willingness to relieve them and ourselves from 
our present condition of moral and political reprobation. From those 
of the former generation who were in the fulness of age when I came 
into public life, which was while our controversy with England was on 
paper onlj^, I soon saw that nothing was to be hoped. Nursed and 
educated in the daily habit of seeing the degraded condition, both bo- 
dily and mental, of those unfortunate beings, not reflecting that that 
degradation was very much the work of themselves and their fathers, 
few minds had yet doubted but that ihey were as legitimate subjects of 
property as their horses or cattle. The quiet and monotonous course 
of colonial life had been disturbed by no alarm, and little reflection on 
the value of liberty. And when alarm was taken at an enterprize on 
their own, it was not easy to carry them the whole length of the prin- 
ciples which they invoked for themselves. In the first or second 
session of the legislature after I became a member, I &€ew to this sub- 
ject the attention of Col. Bland, one of the oldest, ablest, and most re- 
spected members, and he undertook to move for certain moderate ex- 
tensions of the protection of the laws to these people. I seconded his 
motion, and, as a younger member, was more spared in the debate : 
but he was denounced as au enemy to his country, and was treated 
with the grossest indecorum. From an early stage of our revolution 
other and more distant duties were assigned to me, so that from that 
time till my return from Europe in 1789, and I may say till I return- 
ed to reside at home in 1809, I had little opportunity of knowing the 
progress of public sentiment here on this subject. I had always hoped 
that the younger generation receiving their early impressions after 
the flame of liberty had been kindled in every breast, and had become 
as it were the vital spirit of every American, that the generous tem- 
'perament of youth, analogous to the motion of their blood, and above 
the suggestions of avarice, would have sympathized with oppression 
wherever found, and proved their love of liberty beyond their own 
share of it. But my intercourse with them, since my return has not 
been sufficient to ascertain that they had made towards this point the 
progress I had hoped. Your solitary but welcome voice is the first 
which has brought this sound to my ear ; and I have considered the 
general silence which prevails on this subject as indicating an apathy 
unfavorable to every hope. Yet the hour of emancipation is advan- 
cing, in the march of time. It will come ; and whether brought on by 



19 

the pencrous etierpy of our own minfls, or by the bloody process of 
St. J)ominL'^o, excilerl arul coiiflnricd by the power of our present ene- 
luy, if oiKMj stalioneil permanently within our country, and oflering 
asyhini and arms to the oppressed, is a leaf f)! our history not yet 
turnc(i over. 

As i<> ihcmf'lhod l)y whicli this difiirnlt worU is to be eflecterl, if per- 
n>itt»^d to be (h)ne by onrsi'lvcs, 1 h:»ve seen no propositi(»n so expedient 
on the whoh", as that of emancipation of those born after a L'iven day, 
and of tlieir edncalion aiul exp:itriation at a proper ai:e. Tliis woulil 
give lime for a gradual extinction of that species of bd)0ur and sub- 
stitution of another, and lessen the severity of the shock which an ope- 
ration so fundamental cannot fail to produce. The idea of emanci- 
paiing the whole at once, the old as well as the younir, and retaining' 
them here, is of those only who have not the guide ofeidier knowledge 
or experience of the subject. For, men, probably of any color, but 
of this color we know, brought up from their infancy without necessity 
for thought or forecast, are by their habits rendered as incapable as 
children of taking care of themselves, and are extinguished promptly 
wherever industry is necessary for raising the young. In the mean 
time they are pests in society by their idleness, and the depredations to 
which this leads them. Their amalgamation with the other color pro- 
duces a degradation to which no lover of his country, no lover of ex- 
cellence in the human character can innocently consent. 

I am sensible of the partialities with \ihich you have looked towards 
me as the person who should undertake this salutary but arduous 
work. But this, my dear sir, is like bidding old Priam to buckle the 
armour of Hector ^Urementibus cbvo humeris et inutile firrumcingi.^^ — 
No, 1 have overlived the generation with which mutual labors and 
peiils begat mutual confidence and influence. Tiiis enterprize is for 
the young; for those who can follow it up, and bear it through to its 
consummation. It shall have all my prayers, and these are the only 
weapons of an old man. But in the mean time are you right in aban- 
doning this property, and \'Our country with itf I think not. My 
opinion has ever been that, until more can be done for them, we should 
endeavor, with those whom fortune has thrown on our hands, to feed 
and clothe them well, protect theuj from ill usage, require such rea- 
sonable labor only as is performed voluntarily by freemen, and be led 
by no repugnancies to abdicate them, and our duties to thetn. The 
laws do not permit us to turn them loose, if that were for their good : 
and to commute them for other property is to commit them to those 
whose usage of them we cannot control. I hope then, my dear sir, 
you will reconcile yourself to your country and its unfortunate condi- 
tion ; that you will not lessen its stock of sound disposition by with- 
drawing your portion from the mass. That, on the contrary you will 
come forward in the public councils, become the missionary of this 
doctrine truU' christian ; insinuate and inculcate it softly but steadiU', 
through the medium of writing and conversation; associate others in 
your labors, and when the phalanx is formed, bring on and press the 
proposition perseveringly until its accomplishment. It is an encour- 
aging observation that no good measure was ever proposed, which, if 
duly pursued, failed to prevail in the end. We have proof of this in 



20 

the history of the endeavors in the British parliament to suppress that 
very trade which brought this evil on us. And you will be supported 
by the religious precept, " be not weary in well-doing." That your 
success may be as speedy and complete, as it will be of honorable and 
immortal consolation to yourself, I shall as fervently and sincerely 
pray as I assure of my great friendship and respect. 

TH: JEFFERSON. 
Edward Coles, Esq. 



TO JARED SPJRKS. 

Monticello, Feb. 4, 1824. 
Dear Sir, 
I duly received your favoin* of the 13th, and with it, the last num- 
ber of the North American Review. This has anticipated the one I 
should receive in course, but have not yet received, under my sub- 
scription to the new series. The article on the African colonization 
of the people of color, to which you invite my attention, I have read 
with great consideration. It is indeed a fine one, and will do much 
good. I learn from it more, too, than I had before known, of the de- 
gree of success and promise of that colony. 

In the disposition of these unfortunate people, there are two rational 
objects to be distinctly kept in view. 1. The establishment of a colo- 
ny on the coast of Africa, w^hich may introduce among the aborigines 
the arts of cultivated life, and the blessings of civilization and science. 
By doing this, we may make to them some retribution for the long 
course of injuries we have been committing on their population. And 
considering that these blessings will descend to the ^nati natorum, ei 
qui nascentur ah illis,^ we shall in the long run have rendered them 
perhaps more good than evil. To fulfil this object, the colon}^ of Si- 
erra Leone promises well, and that of Mesurado adds to our prospect 
of success. Under this view, the Colonization Society is to be con- 
sidered as a missionary society, having in view, however, objects more 
humane, more justifiable, and less aggressive on the peace of other 
nations, than the others of that appellation. 

The second object, and the most interesting to us, as coming 
home to our physical and moral characters, to our happiness and safe- 
ty, is to provide an asylum to which we can, by degrees, send the 
whole of that population from among us, and establish theni under 
our patronage and protection, as a separate, free and independent peo- 
ple, in some country and climate friendly to human life and happiness. 
That any place on the coast of Africa should answer the latter pur- 
pose, I have ever deemed entirely impossible. And without repeat- 
ing the other arguments which have been urged by others, I will ap- 
peal to figures only, which admit no controversy. I shall speak in 
round numbers, not absolutely accurate, yet not so wide from truth as 
to vary the result materially. There are in the United States a mil- 
lion and a half of people of color in slaver}^ To send off the whole 
4>f these at once, nobody conceives to be practicable for us, or expe- 
dient for them. Let us take twenty-five years for its accomplishment, 



21 

within whicli time ihey will be (loubled. Their estimated value as pro- 
perty, ill the first place, (for ncltial proprrty has hecn lawfully vested 
ill that Inrin, and whf) can lawriilly lakf? it iVom tin? possessors .") at an 
average of two Inindrcd dollars each, younpj and old, would amount 
to six hundred millions of dollars, which must he paid or lost hy some- 
body. To this, add the cost of their transpfjrtalion hy land and sea 
to Mesurado, a year's provision of food and clolhitifr, implements of 
husbandry and of their trades, which will amount to three hundred 
millions more, makinp; thirty-six millions of dollars a year f(jr twenty- 
five years, with insurance of peace all that time, and it is impossible to 
look at the question a second time. I am aware that at the end of 
about sixteen years, a gradual detraction from this sum will commence, 
from the gradual diminulion of breeders, and go on during the re- 
maining riine years. Calculate this deduction, and it is ^till impossi- 
ble to look at the enterprise a second time. 1 do not say this to induce 
an inference that the getting rid of them is forever impossible. For 
that is neither my opinion nor my hope. I5iit only that it cannot be 
done in this way. There is, I think, a way in which it can be done ; 
that is, by emancipating the after born, leaving them, on due compen- 
sation, with their mothers, until their services arc worth tiieir mainte- 
nance, and then putting them to industrious occupations, until a proper 
age for deportation. This was the result of my reflections on the sub- 
ject five and forty years ago, and I have never yet been able to conceive 
any other practicable plan. It was sketched in the Notes on Virginia, 
under the fourteenth query. The estimated value of the new-born in- 
fant is so low, (say twelve dollars and fifty cents) that it would proba- 
bly be yielded by the owner gratis, and would thus reduce the six hun- 
dred millions of dollars, the first head of expense, to thirty-seven mil- 
lions and a half: leaving only the expenses of nourishment while with 
the mother, and of transportation. And from what fund are these ex- 
penses to be furnished? Why not from that of the lands which have 
been ceded by the very states now needing this relief? And ceded on 
no consideration, for the most part, but that of the general good of 
the whole. These cessions already constitute one fourth of the states 
of the union. It may be said that these lands have been sold; are 
now the property of the citizens composing those states; and the money 
long ago received and expended. But an equivalent of lands in the 
territories since acciuired, may be appropriated to that object, or so 
much at least as may be sufllcient; and the object, although more im- 
portant to the slave states, is highly so to the others also, if they were 
serious in their arguments on the Missouri question. The slave states, 
too, if more interested, would also contribute more by their gratuitous 
liberation, thus taking on themselves alone the first and heaviest item 
of expense. 

In the plan sketched in the Notes on Virginia, no particular place 
of asylum was specified ; because it was thought possible, that in the 
revolutionary state of America, then commenced, events might open to 
us some one within practicable distance. This has now happened. 
St. Domingo has become independent, and with a population of that 
color only; and if the public papers are to be credited, their Chief 
offers to pay their passage, to receive them as free citizens, and to pro- 



22 

vide them employment. This leaves, then, for the general confede- 
racy, no expense but of nurture with the mother a few years, and 
would call, of course, for a very moderate appropriation of the vacant 
lands. Suppose the whole annual increase to be of sixty thousand ef- 
fective births, fifty vessels, of four hundred tons burthen each, con- 
stantly employed in that short run, would carry off the increase of 
every year, and the old stock would die off in the ordinary course of 
nature, lessening from the commencement until its final disappearance. 
In this way no violation of private riglit is proposed. Voluntar}' sur- 
renders would probably come in as fast as the means to be provided 
for their care would be competent to it. Looking at my own slate 
only, and I presume not to speak for the others, I verily believe that 
this surrender of property would not amount to more, annually, than 
half of our present direct taxes, to be continued fully about twenty or 
twenty-five years, and then gradually diminishing for as many more 
until their final extinction; and even this half tax would not be paid 
in cash, but by the delivery of an object wiiich they have never yet 
known or counted as part of their property: and those not possessing 
the object will be called on for nothing. I do not go into all the de- 
tails of the burthens and benefits of this operation. And who could 
estimate its blessed effects? I leave this to those who will live to see 
their accomplishment, and to enjoy a beatitude forbidden to my age. 
But I leave it with this admonition, to rise and be doing. A million 
and a half are within their control; but six millions (which a majority 
of those now living will see them attain,) and one million of these 
fighting men, will say, 'we will not go.' 

I am aware that this subject involves some constitutional scruples. 
But a liberal construction, justified by the object, may go far, and 
an amendment of the constitution, the whole length necessary. The 
separation of infants from their mothers, too, would produce some 
scruples of humanity. But this would be straining at a gnat, and 
swallowing a camel. 

I am much pleased to see that you have taken up the subject of the 
duty on imported books. I hope a crusade will be kept up against 
it, until those in power shall become sensible of this stain on our legis- 
lation and shall wipe it from their code, and from the remembrance of 
man, if possible. 

1 salute you with assurances of high respect and esteem. 

TH: JEFFERSON. 



