SENATE No. 37. 



REPORT 



Oir THZ SCBJTECT OV 



DOMESTIC SLAVERY. 



^^7 



Feb. 1839.] SENATE— No. 37. 



crotnmonUieaUii of M^nnutf^nntttn. 



Reported bj a Special Joint Committee consisting of 
Messrs. Fillet and Perkins, of the Senate, and 
Messrs. Rfsing, of Worihington^ 

Russell, of West Cambridge, 
Dayis, of Templetorit 
of the House. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportonsubjecto1839mass 



Feb. 1839.] SENATE— No. 37. 



eommonbieaUli of jlll»fii!9at!)ttfiietts< 



In Senate, Feb. 23, 1839. 

The Joint Special Committee to whom were referred the 
petition of Jarius Lincoln and others, of the town of 
Hingham, and many other petitions of the same tenor, 
asking the Legislature to declare, that Congress has 
the constitutional power to abolish slavery and the 
slave-trade in the District of Columbia, and in the 
several Territories of the Union, and the slave-trade 
between the several states of the Union, and that 
Congress ought immediately to exercise that power; to 
whom were also committed the petition of Zephaniah 
Willis and others, of the town of Kingston, and sun- 
dry other petitions on the subject of the admission of 
New States into the Union, and to whom was commit- 
ted an order of the honorable House of Representa- 
tives, of the 1 2th January last, in relation to Atherton's 
Resolutions, have considered the several matters so 
submitted, and ask leave to 

REPORT: 

That it is with much gratification they have found 
among themselves, an unanimity of opinion on a subject 
which has so long and so deeply excited the community 
at large, and at times threatened the repose of the several 
states whose true strength will be found to consist in 
their unity and harmony. 



6 DOMESTIC SLAVERY. [Feb. 

And they cannot forbear to congratulate themselves 
and the public, upon the continuance of that sound and 
patriotic feeling which has so long distinguished this hap- 
py Union — amidst all the conflicts wliich on the one 
hand may be supposed to trench upon constitutional 
rights, and on the other, essentially to suppress the im- 
pulses of humanity or narrow the sphere of individual and 
general justice. The Committee cannot for a moment 
shut their eyes to the direct and universal evils which ac- 
company the institution of slavery, and they will not for- 
bear earnestly to express a conviction which they deeply 
feel, that any hasty or inadequate remedy will have a 
tendency to aggravate, rather than assuage the influence 
of the disease. They would especially commend that 
cool, dispassionate, and thorough investigation which 
should always attend the examination of a malady deeply 
seated, and which must be healed by disclosing to the 
patient its fatal tendencies, and inducing his voluntary 
application of the appropriate and efficient remedies. 
And they would superadd their caution to that of the 
wise and prudent who have gone before them, lest the 
rash and precipitate operator should in applying the rem- 
edy inflict a wound deeper and more lasting than the 
disease itself. 

That the institution of slavery existed in many of the 
states of the Union before the yoke of general bondage 
was broken, none will deny ; that it survived that great 
and glorious struggle for freedom, by which our indepen- 
dence was won, is also true ; that it will not now avail us 
to deplore, that like our own Massachusetts, the other 
members of the Confederacy did not forever rid them- 
selves from an evil so alarming in its character and ruin- 
ous in its effects is clear. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 37. 7 

That it was by a prudent and studied silence, implied- 
ly countenanced in that sacred instrument, the Constitu- 
tion of the United States, we are perhaps compelled to 
concede. The compromise and mutual concessionsjnade 
in order to the adoption of that instrument, by the states, 
will not, in the opinion of your Committee, be disturbed 
by enforcing the views and objects of the petitioners. 
The institution of slavery is local, subject to distinction 
or modification by the local legislatures. For the Dictrict 
of Columbia, Congress is the legislature. It controls and 
regulates by necessity, the domestic relations of the sev- 
eral territories, over which it has jurisdiction. It cannot 
interfere, nor do the petitioners desire it to interfere with 
the local enactments of the several members of the con- 
federacy. Yet it is the duty of Congress, as the general 
guardian of the Union, to confine the effects of local legis- 
lation within the territorial jurisdiction of the enacting 
power ; to see that no laws be enforced by one member, 
incompatible with the rights of the others. 

The freedom of communication established by the Con- 
stitution and laws, through the medium of the post office, 
is an unquestionable right accorded to all the citizens of 
the Union, over which no local legislature should be per- 
mitted to exercise the slightest control. It is a matter 
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the national legislature. 
An interference by state authorities with any of the regu- 
lations adopted by Congress in regard to it, is unjustifia- 
ble ; not only so, but a direct violation of laws paramount 
to those of the states. Your Committee are therefore of 
opinion, that although Congress has no legislative control 
directly over the institution of slavery in the several states, 
it has the power of keeping open the pathway of moral 
light and knowledge, through which this institution can 



8^ DOMESTIC SLAVERY. [Feb. 

be reached by argument and the influences of moral sua- 
sion, quite as efficient in the accomplishment of the hu- 
mane objects of the petitioners, as legislative rules and 
sanctions can possibly be made. 

No citizen of Massachusetts, it is apprehended, will 
maintain the power of his own particular confederacy to 
interfere with the other states, in a matter which belongs 
to their municipal or political regulation. The Commit- 
tee would not be understood to include, in the above gen- 
eral remark, any expression of opinion against the exer- 
cise by Congress, of its plenary powers of legislation and 
jurisdiction over the several portions of our territory, 
which are now embraced within the District of Columbia 
and the several territorial governments already created by 
law. So far as the institution of slavery is confined to 
the legislation of the several states within whose limits it 
is tolerated by their Constitution or laws, the Committee 
do not understand that the wishes of the petitioners go 
beyond the recognition of the unquestionable and well- 
settled principles heretofore adverted to in this report. 
But as the objects of the petitioners are distinctly stated 
in their petition, it may not be amiss for the Committee 
to notice them severally in their report, accompanied by 
the opinions which they have adopted. The petitioners 
suppose the powers of Congress to be undeniably these : 

1st. To abolish slavery and the slave-trade in the 
District of Columbia. 2d. To abolish slavery and the 
slave-trade in the several territories of the United States. 
3d. To prohibit the slave-trade among the several states of 
the Union. 4th. To refuse the admission of any new state 
into the Union whose Constitution tolerates domestic slave- 
ry, and the petitioners conclude by expressing their full con- 



1839.] SENATE— No. 37. 9 

viction that on these several subjects, Congress ought im- 
mediately to exercise its acknowledged power. The 
Committee Iiave given to these interesting subjects, their 
anxious and undivided attention, and herewith commu- 
nicate to the Legislature the conclusions to which they 
have arrived. 

The first question involves the power of Congress over 
the subject matter of slavery in the District of Columbia, 
the Committee arc of opinion that so far as the consti- 
tutional expression or grant to Congress of " full and ex- 
clusive power of k'gishition" over that portion of territory 
which now comprises the District of Columbia embraces 
the question of slavery, it has invested Congress with full 
power on that subject, and they cannot find any reason for 
the assumption that the subject of slavery, like any other, 
is not comprehended within the legitimate scope of the 
term "full and exclusive legislation in all cases whatso- 
ever." 

The Committee, therefore, fully concur with the peti- 
tioners in tiie opinion, that the Congress of the United 
States have the plenary power which they now call upon 
this Legislature to urge the General Government to ex- 
ercise, and that immediate measures ought to be adopted 
by Congress to accomplish that object. By the acts of 
cession of the ten miles square, now comprising the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, and entitled the Seat of Government, 
the jurisdiction of Virginia and Maryland ceased, and be- 
came vested in the Congress of the United States, and 
the persons and property of individuals residing within 
its limits l)ecame subject to the exclusive legislation of 
Congress in full and absolute right. As to the second 
proposition, the Committee cannot hesitate to express 
their opinion that Congress have the power to abolish slav- 
2 



10 DOMESTIC SLAVERY. [Feb. 

ery and the slave-trade in the territories of the United 
States. And ihcj are as clearly of opinion thai Congress 
have the power to rejj;ulate or abolish the slave-trade be- 
tween the several slates of the Union, which is tlie third 
proposition of the petitioners ; ihey also concur wiili the 
petitioners in their opinion of the right and duty of Con- 
gress to prohibit the admission of any new state into the 
Union, whose Constitution shall tolerate domestic slavery, 
and they concur in the general feeling of approbation ex- 
pressed by the petitioners toward the Massachusetts del- 
egation in Congress, for their sincere and able support of 
the sacred right of petition, the importance of which the 
subject of slavery has so fully developed. 

The petitioners ask of the Legislature an expression 
of an opinion affirming that expressed by themselves up- 
on four distinct propositions relative to the subject of 
slavery, and also for an application by the Legislature to 
the Congress of the United States to act upon the sub- 
jects which these propositions embrace. Were these sub- 
jects of fresh impression, recently propounded and undis- 
cussed, their intrinsic importance, the legislative powers, 
and the important and intricate relations which they in- 
volve, would require of your Committee laborious and 
careful researches and inquiries. Such, however, is not 
the case ; they have been most critically examined, their 
relations are intimately known, the powers of the National 
Government over them are unquestioned except by those 
whose interest has bewildered them in their researches 
after truth, or whose prejudices have blinded their intel- 
lectual vision, to repeat arguments to express conclusions 
to which the rules of logic strictlj applied, have brought 
all honest, disinterested inquirers, and to enforce the 
practical adoption of those conclusions by any new efforts 
of the Legislature, can hardly be expected. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 37. 11 

The Committee have also had under consideration, an 
order of the honorable House of Representatives of the 
12th January, 1839, directing them to report upon the 
expediency of adopting a Resolution of the Legislature, 
expressing their disapprobation of the Resolutions offered 
by a member from New Hampshire, in the House of 
Representatives of the United States, at its present ses- 
sion, and they rej)ort that the said Resolutions are, in the 
opinion of your Committee, an infringement of the sa- 
cred right of petition, an infringement which ought not 
to be tolerated by a free people, and to which, none but 
willing slaves will submit, an interference with the right 
of discussion, a right inestimable to freemen, and dread- 
ed only by those whose principles or motives cannot with- 
stand the searchiri'r tests of truth. 

The Committee, in conclusion, would remind the Le- 
gislature that as the several topics submitted to their in- 
vestigation, have been heretofore repeatedly presented, 
and fully discussed and acted upon by the Legislature of 
this Conimonweahh, and as our Senators have been in- 
structed, and our present Representatives in the Congress 
of the United States hiive been advised in relation to the 
subjects contained in the several f)etiiions referred to your 
Committee, they are of the opinion that no further or 
more specific action is necessary or exj)edient thereon, 
and respectfully ask to be discharged from the further 
consideration thereof. All which is submitted. 

For the Committee, 

LESTER FILLET, Chairman, 



