SOME ACCOUNT 



OF THE 



gottitn 



FOR THE 



CONVERSION AND RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 
AND EDUCATION 



OF THE 



NEGROE SLAVES 



IN THE 



BRITISH WEST INDIA ISLANDS. 



1823. 



SOME ACCOUNT 



£otittt> 



CONVERSION AND RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 
AND EDUCATION 



NEGROE SLAVES 



BRITISH WEST INDIA ISLANDS. 



ImavpoxAttti fi» Bugal (fttwrttv, 1794. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY R. GILBERT, 

ST. john's-square. 

1823. 



res •7^fc-6 t / nt'ti 



PRESIDENT. 

The Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of London, 
VICE PRESIDENTS. 

The Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Llandait, Dean of St. PatiFs. 

The Right Honourable Robert Peel, M.P. 

The Right Honourable the Lord Mayor of London. 

The Very Reverend the Dean of Westminster. 

GOVERNORS. 

The Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Chichester, Rector of Si. Giles. 

The Right Honourable Lord Kenyon. 

The Right Honourable Willliam Husrisson, M.P. President of the 
Board of Trade. 

The Honourable and Rev. G. V. Wellesley, D.D. Canon Residentiary of 
St. Paid's. 

The Right Honourable Henry Goulburn, M.P. 

Sir Henry William Martin, Bart. 

Sir William Curtis, Bart. i s • Aldermen ofthe Cit ofLondon , 

Sir Richard Carr Glyn, Bart. $ J J J 

Sir Christopher Robinson, Knt. Chancellor of the Diocese ofLondon. 

The Very Reverend the Dean of Canterbury, Rector of St. James. 

The VeryReverend the Dean of Carlisle, Rector of St. George, Hanover- 
square. 

The Venerable J. H. Pott, M.A. Archdeacon of London. 

The Venerable G. O. Cambridge, M.A. Archdeacon of Middlesex. 

The Venerable C. J. Blomfield, D.D. Archdeacon of Colchester. 

The Reverend Thomas Hughes, D.D. ? «„„„ „» -j„,,-„ nf e, p„„7'. 

The Reverend F. W. Blomberg, D.D. \ Canons R*si<kntmry of St. Paul s. 

The Reverend R. Macleod, D.D Rector of St. Anne, Westminster. 

The Reverend T. Willis, D.D. Rector of St. George, Bloomsbury. 

The Reverend F. Randolph, D.D. Rector of St. Paul, Covent-garden. 

The Reverend C. Fynes Clinton, D.C.L. i Resident Prebendaries of West- 

The Rev. H. H. Edwards; M.A. $ minster. 

The Reverend G. BeresforD, M.A. Rector of St. Andrew, Holbom. 

The Reverend T. R. Wrench, M.A. Rector of St. Michael, Cornhill. 

The Reverend W. R. Lyall, M.A. 

C. R. Ellis, Esq. M.P. 

George Hibbert, Esq. 

William Manning, Esq. M.P. 

G. Mathison, Esq. 

C. N. Pallmer, Esq. 

Joshua Watson, Esq. 

The Heir at Law of the Honourable Robert Boyle, Deceased. 

TREASURER. 

Thomas Porteus, Esq. 

SECRETARY. 

The Reverend Jonathan Tyers Barrett, D.D. 

Note. — Subscribers of not less than Two Pounds Two Shillings per Annum, or 
Donors of Twenty Pounds or upwards at any one time, become Honorary Mem- 
bers ofthe Society ; but tlie smallest Subscriptions will be received. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding .from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/someaccountofsocOOinco 



SOME ACCOUNT, 



The foundation of this Society was laid by 
the Right Reverend Beilby Porteus, late 
Lord Bishop of London, in the year 1794, 
upon the charitable bequest of the Honour- 
able Robert Boyle. 

By his will, dated the 18th July, 1691, 
Mr. Boyle directed the residue of his per- 
sonal estate to be laid out by his executors 
" for charitable and other pious and good 
uses, at their discretion," but recommended 
them to appropriate the greater part thereof 
to " the Advancement or Propagation of the 
Christian Religion amongst Infidels." 

The Executors accordingly purchased an 
estate at Braiferton, in the county of York, 



6 



and vested it in the hands of Trustees, to 
the intent that the rents and profits thereof 
should be applied to " the Advancement of 
the Christian Religion amongst Infidels in 
Virginia*," in such manner as the Earl of 
Burlington, and the Bishop of London, for 
the time being, should appoint. 

These proceedings took place under the 
orders and sanction of the Court of Chancery ; 
and the clear rents of the estate were re- 
mitted to the College of William and Mary 
in Virginia, and applied to the education and 
instruction of such Indian children as were 
received therein, until the breaking out of 
the war between this country and America. 

After the conclusion of that war, the 
Bishop of London caused an information to 
be filed in Chancery, in order to obtain an 
application of the rents and profits of the 
estate to the benefit of subjects of the crown 

* The estate is subject to a rent-charge in perpetuity of 901. 
per annum, to a Society for Propagating the Gospel in New 
England, and parts adjacent, in America, to the Receiver's 
salary, and other incidental charges. 



of Great Britain * : and it was the decision 
of the Court that his Lordship should lay a 
scheme before the Master, for the disposition 
of the produce of the said estate and chari- 
table fund, according to the intention of 
Mr. Boyle. 

Such a scheme having been accordingly 
drawn up and approved, the Bishop pro- 
ceeded, agreeably to the suggestion of the 
Court, to apply to his Majesty for letters 
patent, for the creation of a Corporation to 
direct the Charity; when his Majesty, being 
graciously pleased to encourage so laudable 
and charitable an undertaking, acceded to 
the petition, and erected and established by 
his Royal Charter " The Corporation for 
the Conversion and Religious Instruc- 
tion, and Education of the Negroe 
Slaves in the British West India 
Islands." 

The Society, thus established, held its 
first Meeting on the third day of April, 1794 ; 

* The Bishop found an able assistant in this cause in the 
late Richard Burn, Esq. Treasurer to the Charity, 
t 



8 



when, having elected a President, Vice-Pre- 
sidents, and other officers, all the Members 
who were present signified their intention to 
subscribe * an annual sum towards the sup- 
port of this pious and benevolent Insti- 
tution ; and it was ordered, that those who 
might be desirous to promote its interests, 
either by Donation, or Legacies, or Annual 
Contributions, should be requested to sig- 
nify their intentions to the Treasurer, from 
whom they might learn further particulars 
respecting the general object of the Society. 

The Governors of the several Islands 
having been first consulted by a circular 
letter written by the Bishop, two Gentlemen 
in Holy Orders were, respectively, sent out 
to the Islands of Jamaica and Barbadoes ; 
one of whom did not long survive the period 
of his appointment. 



* Subscriptions were received in aid of the Society until the 
year 1803, when the General Board, taking into consideration 
the ample state of its revenue, and the difficulties which it then 
felt of providing proper Agents for its purposes, was of opinion 
that it would be expedient to suspend, for a time, the collection 
of voluntary contributions. 



9 

Assistance was next afforded to the Island 
of St. Kitt's, to which a Clergyman was com- 
missioned in 1795. 

In the course of the year 1798, the Reve- 
rend Mr. Curtin was stationed at Antigua, 
where he has persevered in the faithful and 
effective discharge of his duties until the 
present day. 

In the autumn of the year 1805, a Clergy- 
man was procured for the Island of Nevis, 
where he continued to reside about two 
years. 

A Schoolmaster was next appointed as an 
assistant to Mr. Curtin, with whom he still 
remains : and about the same time, (viz. in 
the year 1810), a Gentleman in Priest's 
Orders was engaged by the Society to ad- 
minister assistance to the Negroes of St. 
Vincent. His services, however, were but 
of short duration, as he died upon this 
Island within a few months. 

The small number of appointments here 
enumerated, will shew what difficulties 



10 



were opposed, during the continuance of 
the late war, to the benevolent exertions 
of the Society, and to the frequent efforts 
which were made, by advertisements and 
also by private applications, to procure 
assistants duly qualified for its important 
work. 

Unable to obtain Agents exclusively its 
own, the Society, about this time, was in- 
duced to look for assistance to Clergymen 
who were already resident upon the Islands : 
and, being satisfied as to the points of leisure 
and ability, accepted the partial services of 
three very respectable Ministers, who ex- 
pressed their readiness to extend their 
pastoral care to the Negroes and their 
children. 

At the conclusion, however, of the war, 
the Society was enabled to fill up the vacan- 
cies which had occurred among its Ministers 
and Schoolmasters : and, from that time to 
the present, all the strength which its funds 
have placed at its command, has been 
steadily put forth, and faithfully applied in 
carrying into effect the object of the Charter. 



11 

Though a good Stewardship has more 
than doubled the revenues of the Charity 
since it was placed in the hands of the Cor- 
poration, yet they are very far from being 
adequate to the demands upon them. Re- 
peatedly has the Society had applications 
for assistance which it has the mortifica- 
tion of finding itself unable to grant ; and 
it should seem, by the increase of such calls 
of late, that the time is near at hand, in 
which the field assigned for its exertions 
will, for the most part, become accessible 
in every British Island. 

The letters of the Gentlemen who are in 
the service of the Society,* as well as those 

* The following is a list of those Gentlemen who are at pre- 
sent acting under the direction of the Society in the British 
West India Islands. 

The Rev. J. Curtin, ^ 

The Rev. B. Luckock, > Antigua. 

Mr. Croot, Schoolmaster, J 

The Rev. J. M'Intyre, "\ 

The Rev. J. Stainsby, f 

The Rev. G.Young, > JamaiCa " 

The Rev. J. Jefferson, J 

The Rev. D. G. Davis, Nevis. 

The Rev. J, B. Pemberton, St. Kitt's. 



12 

of many intelligent persons, who feel an in- 
terest in its concerns, bear testimony to the 
awakening spirit which is manifesting itself 
around them in favour of the communica- 
tion of Christianity to the Negroes ; and to 
the growing disposition to encourage their 
conversion to that Holy Religion, by which 
their condition must be ameliorated here, 
and the prospect will be opened to them of 
an admission into endless happiness here- 
after. 

Neither is the attention which is now 
directed to the spiritual welfare of the 
Negroes, confined to private individuals. 
The same warmth of feeling has been as 
honourably manifested in many instances, 
in those who have been invested with the 
highest powers in the Islands, as well as 
in the public proceedings of many of the 
Colonial Assemblies : so that now there is 
no reason to apprehend that the views of 
the Society will fail, through want of proper 
encouragement on the spot, to the Clergy 
engaged in its service. 



13 

It is not without full confidence in the 
result of such a measure, that the Governors 
of the Society thus lay before the public the 
following statement of the particulars of the 
fund which found so faithful and able a 
protector in Bishop Porteus, and which was 
entrusted by the Charter of his late Majesty 
to their management. 

£. s. d. 

The gross Rental of the Estate 851 17 8 

The Rent-charge to the Society for Propagating-* ', 
the Gospel in New England J 

761 17 8 
About 46,000Z. 3 per cent. Consolidated Bank 

Annuities 1380 



2141 17 8 



The Governors think proper to add, that 
reports will from time to time be made 
respecting the success of the Society's 
labours, the state of its funds, and the ap- 
plication of its revenues, for the information 
of the Subscribers and the Public. 



Donations and Annual Subscriptions will be received by 
the following Bankers. 

Messrs. Smith, Payne and Smith, Mansion House-Street. 
Messrs. Barnard, Dimsdale and Dimsdale, Cornhill. 
Messrs Sikes, Snaith, and Co. Mansion House-Street. 
Messrs. Hoare, Fleet-Street. 

Messrs. Cocks, Cocks, Ridge andBiddulph, Charing- Cross. 
Messrs. Hammersley, Pali-Mall. 

By the Treasurer, T. Porteus, Esq. 34, Half Moon-Street, 
Piccadilly ; and by the Secretary, 14, Duke- Street, Westminster. 

Subscriptions now paid mill be considered as given for the Year 
ending at Christmas 1824. 



Printed by R. Gilbert, St. John's Square, London. 



SOME ACCOUNT 

OF THE 
FOR THE 

CONVERSION AND RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 
AND EDUCATION 

OF THE 

NEGROE SLAVES 

IN THE 

BRITISH WEST INDIA ISLANDS. 



1823. 



