A^- ^. 



Office of the American Anti-Slavery Society, \ 
New^York, April 2, 1838 . ) 

Dear Sir, V MSS. 

By direction of the Executive Committee of this Society, I call your attention to the 
BUSINESS-MEETING of its next Anniversary. 

At the last Anniversary it vt'as thought, that, on account of the very laudable interest felt by the 
delegates to this Society, in the various meetings held during the anniversary week, and their consequent 
absence from our Business-Meetings, there was not sufficient time for deliberate and thorough* discussion 
of the important topics usually brought before the Annual Meeting. To obviate this difficulty, the 
Executive Committee were directed to call a Business-Meeting this year, on the week previous to the 
Anniversary. Accordingly, the Committee have invited the friends of the cause to assemble in this City, 
on WEDNESDAY, the SECOND of MAY. 

It will be a meeting of unprecedented interest and importance ; and the Committee earnestly desire, 
that a large number of our friends should be present. The events of the past year have concentrated the 
public attention upon our movements. The discussions in the National and State legislatures — the immense 
nmnber of petitions sent to those bodies — the protracted hearings granted by some of them in behalf of 

* the petitioners — the noble action in the legislatures of Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New 

* York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Michigan — the granting for the use of our meetings, the State Houses at 

Boston and Albany — the anxiety of political candidates in some of the States to win our favor the 

slaughter of a free citizen while defending the liberty of the press — the preliminary step to calling a con- 
vention for amending the Constitution of Kentucky — the anticipated substitution of immediate abolition, for 

I the apprenticeship, on the first of August next, by one of the West India islands, [Montserrat,] and the pro- 
; bable substitution in them all — and the steady increase of our numbers in the face of strong and relentless 
opposition, have fixed the eye of the nation upon us, and given to our operations great importance in the 
estimation of all, and especially of those (the vast majority) who do homage to public sentiment. How 
necessary that our measures be characterized by wisdom and firmness ! How important that we take 
elevated ground, and that the next campaign be judiciously planned, and vigorously executed ! 

^ Important matters, bearing upon the common cause, will come before the Business Meeting for dis- 

cussion ; plans of operation are there to be arranged — measures for mutual co-operation between the 
National and State Societies, in regard to finance, petitioning, lecturers, &c. &c. adopted — and the cam- 
paign for the next year marked out. It is of vastly more consequence that intelligent and influential abo- 
litionists should be present at the 5u«ree**-Meeting, than at the Anniversary proper. By coming in season, 
however, they can be present at both. The former will probably continue through the week. 

It is the opinion of all, that the attendance of our friends at the Annual Meeting of our Society, 
has been too small. We hope it may not be so this year. We feel that we need your counsel. 

* Finally ; the special object of this communication is to invite your attendance at the meeting of the 

* Second of May. 

For the Executive Committee, 

* HENRY B. STANTON 



Cor. Sec 



ry. 



f 

» 



r 



