Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essayonimpolicyo02clar 



<-^Lo^ C^^rz^ a_ A j-^c^- p— U gSuZZZc> c^ ^^/fk»^T^^^CC-i CSZZZ/Crz.b~ 
C^cc(y i>Y t<lrc^)^ f at^xrr.-^-/ ^-^ C^C^tf ' n «^ ^ o\ZuZZ^ J~«ZZZZZZ^ Ct^ U.-1^r^€^_^^ 

x^^^^ , 9^^ ^'-*7 ' ^f^^-4 . tcSkiA^tzzzj" gi, /{<-^>Txr^ '>-<^^ c<./qz~ 



A n 



E S S A Y 



ON THE 



IMPOLICY 



Of THE 



AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE. 



IN TWO P A R T S» 



The Rev. T, C L A R K S O N, M. A, 



LONDON: 

Printed and Sold by J. Phillips, George-Yard^ 

Lombard-street* 

MDCCLXXXVIII, 



H'~ltO. g4'3j b ,-v.<s,;5 



^>i /•■ 1^^ 




T O 



WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, Efq. 

ONE OF THE 
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT 

FOR THE 

COUNTY OF YORK. 



SIR, 

^T^O a Gentleman, like yoii, whofe publick and private 
a6tions are founded on principle, and who are con- 
tent with doing your duty without the tribute of popular 
applaufe, I fear that the perufal of this page may be 
rather diftreffing ■ nor am I fure that I fhall not, in fome 
degree, incur your cenfure, for having printed it without 
either your permiffion or your knowledge. You will 
confider, however, how difficult it is for me, who am ac- 
quainted with your exertions in the caufe of humanity and 
freedom, to pafs them over on fuch an occafion as this. 
I truft, therefore, that in addreffing this little book to 
youj as a zealous advocate in behalf of the opprefled 

Africans, 



( ii ) 

Africans, you will cxcufe the liberty I have taken, under 
the circumftance now explained; and I mull intreat 
you to believe, that no encomium fhould ever have 
been paid you by me, unlefs I had believed it to have 
been previoufly earned. 

I have the Honour to be, Sir^^ 

Your fmcere. 

And obedient Servant, 

THOMAS CLARKSON. 



PREFACE. 



PREFACE. 



TT may be expe£led, that, in offering fo many articles of 
information to the publick, and fuch as will materially 
zWcd: the policy of the Have trade, fomething fhould be 
faid of their authenticity, or the afiurance the publick 
may have, that they are true. 

The productions of Africa are the firft objects of con- 
fideration in this work. Whatever I have faid relative to 
the exiftence of thefe, has been coUeded from living 
evidence, and of the greatefl part of them I have now 
Ipecimens in iny po[JeJJion. 

The cruelties, pra6tlfed by the officers of flave vefTels 
on the perfons of their unfortunate crews, (which is 
another obje6t of confideration) has been ftated from 
various depofitions^ voluntarily made laft year. I have had 
alfo ocular dimonftration^ as far as a fight of their mangled 
bodies vi^ill be admitted as a proof, that fuch cruelties 
were exercifed upon them. ; and I have had the fatisfadtion 
of making fome of the perpetrators acknowledge them, by 
the payment of a fine. 

The lofs of feamen, both in the flave trade and other 
trades, (which is a principal object of confideration in this 
work) is fo exacSt, that, though it was neceflary to have 
an account of no lefs ^2infeven or eight thoufand of them 
to afcertain the fa6l, yet the name of every individual can 
be given. 

The lift of plantations, that have been cited as havino- 
fupported themfelves independently of the flave trade, has 
been made up either from letters lately received on the 
fubje6t, or from the oral ftatement of the proprietors 
themfelves, or from thofe gentlemen who became ac- 
(juainted with their fituation by living near them. 

With 



t iV ) 

With refpe6l to other ftatements, which I may diftin- 
p-uifh by the name of mifcellaneous, they are of equal 
authority I have always gone for them myfelf to the 
fountain head ; and, with the affiftance of my worthy 
aflbciates in the caufe, neither labour nor expenfe has 
been fpared in obtaining them from that quarter. 

Having faid a few words on the authenticity of the 
pao-es now to be offered to the publick) I (hall only add^ 
that I fhall think myfelf fufficiently repaid for any trouble 
I have taken, if they tend to throw any light on the 
fubje6l ; and to convince mankind, that Providence has 
univerfally made the fcale to preponderate in favour of 
humanity J or that the African Have trade has not that 
found policy for its bafis^ which people have but too 
generally imagined. 



AN ESSAY 



C 3 ) 



PART h 

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER, 

TN a former EfTay, on the '^ Commerce of the Human 
-^ Species," I particularly enlarged on the injuftice and 
inhumanity of that, which is exhibited in the African 
'trade. In the prefent, I fhall undertake to fhew (uniefs I 
deceive myfelf greatly) that it is as impolnick^ as I have 
proved it to be inhuman and unjufl. 

There are many general arguments, that muft occur ft> 
every fenfible and difmterefted man who is at all acquainted 
with the fubje<5t5 againft this commerce, independently of 
its iniquity or its barbarous effe6i:s. 

The firft conne6lion, which the Europeans ever had 
with the Africans, was for Slaves. This continued to be 
for many years the only traffick for which they had 
intercourfe with each other. Some Britifh merchants, 
however, finding by the reports of their agents, who had 
vifited this coaft, that it abounded with gums, wax, amber- 
gris, honey, ivory, and gold, held out to the natives the 
profpe6t of a new and additional trade. The Africans 
were no fooner made acquainted with, than they embraced 
the plan. They began to colle6^ the different articles ac- 
cordingly, and have continued in the purfuit of them, though 
not without hazard to their perfons, to the prefent day. 

The commercial connection between the Europeans and 
Africans became by thefe means more extenfive than be- 
fore, and continued on thi^ fcale, till it was difcovered that 
the fame continent abounded with many valuable woods. 

The merchants of tkat day, apprized of the difcovery, 
immediately propofed their fchemes as their predeceflbrs 

A 2 had 



4 On the Impolicy of the 

had done before, but defpaired of fuccefs ; conceiving that 
the Africans, who bore the chara6ler of an indolent peo- 
ple, would never engage in fo laborious an employment as 
that of cutting wood. 

They were, however, agreeably difappointed. The 
Africans embarked in this with as much alacrity as in the 
former fcherne. They went more than two hundred 
miles into the inland country, cut down wood fimilar to 
that which had been pointed out, and in the rainy feafons 
brought it in their canoes to the ihipSj enabling the famp 
merchants to gain a profit on the new article, though fold 
at an eafy price. This trade was diftinguifhed by the name 
of the wood trade, and is carried on more extenfively now, 
than at any former period ; though the whole of the trade 
in the natural produ6lions of the country bears no fort of 
comparifon with that in ilaves. 

This narration of fa6ts carries with it, firfr, a proof of 
the commerdal fpirit of the Africans, who have no fooner 
had a nev/ and additional line of intercourfe pointed out, 
than they have em.braced it. 

Nov/, if we coniider that the African foil is undoubt- 
edly m.ore fertile than that of any other quarter of the 
globe ; if we connder that its natives are poffefled of the 
comm.ercial fpirit defcribed ; that they fpeak the European 
languages ; that they are adepts in arithmetical calcula- 
tions, and capable of ccndutSling trade, it mufl: furely be 
the higheft impolicy that fuch a country, and poflelTed by 
fuch inhabitants, ihould be fcarcely known but as a mart 
for human blood. It m.uft, I repeat, be impolicy in the 
highefl degree in the Europeans, becaufe, under the cir- 
cumfliances now defcribed, much higher advantages might 
be derived in another line of trade. 

It fhews, fecondly, that the difficulty of engaging the 
Africans in any new line of commerce would not be fo 
great, as has been generally imagined. 

It is certainly much to be feared, that, while fiaves 
continue to be the grand delideratum of our African inter- 
courfe, very little can be expe(51:ed from any additional 
trade in the natural produdlions of the country. Not but 
that miore of t)\Q. natives v/ould be found to embark in it 
than there are at prefent, but that thefe vvould be fo few 

for 



African Slave Trade. 5 

for the purpofe, while the chief part of our attention was 
idire£ted to the other, that it could hardly be carried to that 
iextent, v/hich would render it of much national importancee 

But fuppofe that the ilave trade were aboliflied ; fuppofe 
that v/e now entered into the one with as much zeal and 
ialacrity, as we had done formerly in the other ; would it 
not be reafohabie to prefume, that, under fuch encourage- 
ments, we iliould foon have a valuable and an extenSve 
irade ? If the Africans could go two hundred miles into 
the inland country, and engage in the laborious employ- 
ment of cutting v/ood, it is reafonable to think, that they 
could be brought to become the cultivators of their owa 
lands. I prefume alfo, that^r^.? labour could be introdu- 
ced among them : it being no more difficult to introduce 
cultivation, or any fyju?n of cultivation there, than it was, 
fince the beginning of the flave trade, to have given birth 
to the various offices of brokers upon the coail, to have 
CQmmiinicated to them the European languages, to have 
introduced the different media of exchange, and to have 
eftabliihed the whole of that regular fyftem of trade, which 
fubfifts at the prefent day. 

Thefe obfervations being made, I fhall lay down two 
pofitions : firft, that the Africans, by proper encourage- 
inent, can be brought into habits of labour : and fecondly, 
thaty;^^ labour can be made the medium, through which 
the produ6t:ions of their country may be collected, or 
brought to maturity and ufe. 

Thefe are the only data, which I fhall require ; and, 
having laid them down, I fhall proceed immediately to the 
point, making a replication to all the arguments, v/hich I 
have ever yet found to be advanced in defence of t\iQ 
policy of the trade in ilaves. 



A 3 CHAP. I. 



§ On the Impolicy of th2 

CHAP. I. 
SECTION I. 

The Patrons of the trade have been long accuftomed to- 
advance, that it is a trade of great value to the nation, 

I confefs that I have never been able to comprehend' 
their meaning. I fhall therefore, before I attempt to 
make a reply, canvafs the expreilion. 

Do they mean that the Haves taken from Africa become 
labourers in the colonies ? that thefe labourers make fugar ? 
that this fugar produces a revenue,, and that the trade there- 
fore is of great national importance ? If this be their 
meaning, I reply, that it is fugar that produces the reve- 
nue, and not the Have. — That the cane can be ci^rltivated 
hy free men^ and farther, that it can be cultivated, under 
certain regulations, v^Ithout the importation of another 
African from the coaft. 

To fuppofe then that they afcribe to the inftrument 
which may be varied, vi^hat is due only to the jfixed object 
of cultivation, or, at any rate, to a concatenation of cir- 
cumftances, is to fuppofe them to be incapable of difcri- 
mination, and is therefore a fuppofition, wdiich I am not 
at liberty to make. 

Do they mean again, that, fiaves employ fhips to tranf^ 
port them ? that thefe iliips employ feamen, and that thefe 
feamen are the pillars of the ftate ? But thefe are but 
appendages of the trade. Rice, cotton, indigo, tobaccoj 
and other produ6tions of the African foil, would, in this 
point of view, be equally beneficial. — I prefume then they 
muft mean that flaves, confidered of themfelves as a com- 
modity, and without any of the appendages defcribed, 
conftitute an article of commerce, that is highly benefi- 
cial to the fl:ate. 

This being prefumed, I fhall ftate the queftion in the 
following manner. 

Africa has two forts of commodities to offer us, — her 
natural produ£i:ions, and — her flaves. — The queflion is^. 
in which of the two, confidered abflraftedly by themfelves, 
it is moft politick to deaL If in confequence of fuch a 

comparifou 



African Slave Telade, ^ 

tomparlfon it fhould appear, that a traffick in the one 
would be of much more national importance than in the 
other, I prefume that the other, inafmuch as it engrofles 
the principal part of our attention, and diverts it from 
One that would be moire beneficial, will be allowed to be 
impolitick. 

To reply to the argument advanced^ I fhall firft: tUra 
my attention to the woods of Africa. 

In the preceding chapter it was obferved there were two 
trades eftablifhed upon the coaft, independent of, and 
having no connect:! on with, the trade in flaves. The firft 
eftablifhed was that in gums, wax, ambergris, honey, 
ivory, and gold. The fecond was that in woods. Thefe 
trades are now united. The merchant, who fits out a 
VefTel for wood, fits it out alfo for as many of the other 
commodities as he can procure. However, the great 
bulk of his cargOi and object of his voyage, being that of 
wood, his veiTel is termed a wood veffeL I make this dif- 
tinition, not only becaufe the merchant makes it himfelf, 
but becaufe I ftiall have occafion to ufe the expreffion ia 
many parts of the work* 

The firft African woods, that were known to be objects 
of commercial importance, were Camwood and Bariuood, 
Thefe were imported by themfelves for fome years. In 
procefs of time, however, it was found that Ebony was a 
native of the coaft : and foon afterwards Lignum Vit(& 
was difcovered. 

Thefe are the only African Woods, that are brought 
home as commercial articles at the prefent day. But a$ 
we already import, or fhall import in a little time as much, 
of thefe as can poffibly be confiimed, no new profpects arer 
to be formed from thence. I fhall therefore pafs them 
over, and advert to fuch, as being now in embryo, would, 
if called forth by the abolition of the trade in flaves, afford 
a fubftitute for it of greater benefit to the nation. 

That Africa abounds with hidden treafures, may b? 
collected from thofe, which accident has already difcover- 
ed. It is certain, however, that this extenfive continent: 
is as yet unexplored. The vegetable produ6tions are but 
little known, and the foffils lefs. The barks, woods, 
roots, fruits, and leaves, have been hardly noticed by an^ 
A 4- naturalift i 



8 On THE Impolicy of TriE 

naturalift ; and the ftones, earths, bitumens, and ores^ 
have not been fo much as ken by the eye of a chemical: 
obferver. 

Nor is this ignorance of the natural produ61:ions of 
Africa to excite our wonder or furprife. The Africans, 
moftly in an unimproved ftate, and at befl: ignorant of the 
various mechanical arts that are pra6!:ifed in Europe, and 
of the various commodities that are the objeils of European 
commerce, cannot be fuppofed to be capable of pointing 
out, of themfelves, fuch of their ov^n produdions as would 
be valuable in trade. 

The Europeans, on the other hand, that is, nine in ten, 
who vifit this extenfive continent, vifit it for Jiaves. This 
is the grand obje61: of their voyage. It engrolTes all their 
thoughts, and occafions them to overlook even the com- 
mon productions of the place. And fo true is this obfer- 
vation, - that many, who have vifited this coaft for years, 
can give no better account of it in this refpedt, than thofe 
who have never feen it at ail. I m.uft add too, that little 
leifure, and ftill lefs opportunity would be afforded them^. 
in the prefent pofture of affairs there,, of gratifying their 
wifhes, even had they a turn for botanical or chemical^ 
purfuits. 

To thefe circumflances then, but ultimately to the 
trade in Jlaves^ is to be afcribed the ignorance before 
mentioned. Under thefe di fad vantages, the reader will 
hardly expe£i: that I ihall be able to fay much of the 
woods of Africa. Such, however, as accident has dif- 
covered within the laft three years, ihall immediately be 
pointed out. 

Within the period now afTigned it has been fully fub-^ 
Hantiated, that mahogany grov/s upon the coaft. About 
eighteen tons of it were colle6ted therC;^ and imported iato 
this country in the year 1786. 

Not long after this, a vefTel, having delivered her flaves 
in the Weft Indies, returned home. In difcharging fome 
firewood, which had been taken in upon the coaft, a fmall 
billet was difcovered of a different appearance from the 
reft. This excited the attention of the difcoverer, who 
fent it to be poliftied. It proved, in confequence of this 
tsiali to be the tulip wood, fo called from its refemblance 

to 



African Slave Trade.^ • 9 

to that flower, the ground cf it being of a ftraw colour, 
arid inlaid with crimfon veins. This wood would be of 
the o;reateft importance to cabinet workers and inlayers, 
and fo valuable, that they would be glad to purchafe it at 
the rate of three (hillings per pound. 

The next fpecies of wood, that excited the attention of 
the importer, was a fmall log brought home in one of the 
wood velTels before defcribed. It v/as of a pale ftraw 
colour. The veins of- it were yellov/, and had a beautiful 
appearance. It was remarkably light, and yet clofe 
grained, and feemed pecuHarly adapted for mufical inftru- 
ments. It would have made, however, elegant light fur- 
niture, and would have been in great requeft with the 
artifts of the form.er defcription. 

About the fame tim.e, in which this log was difcovered, 
another wood veM, belonging to the fame port, brought 
home a fpecimen of the bark of a tree, that produced a 
very valuable yellow dye, and far beyond any other ever 
in ufe in this country. 

The virtues of it were difcovered in the following man- 
ner. A gentleman, relident upon the coaft, ordered fome 
wood to be cut down to ereft an hut. While the people 
were felling it, he was ftanding by. During the opera- 
tion, fome juice flew from the bark of it, and ftained one 
of the ruffies of his fhirt. He thought that the ftain 
would have wafhed out, but on wearing it again, found 
that the yellow fpot was much more bright and beautiful 
than before, and that it gained in luflre every fubfequent 
time of wafhing. Pleafed with the difcovery, which he 
knev/ to be of fo much importance to the manufafturers 
of Great Britain, and for which a confiderable premium 
had been offered, he fent home the bark now mentioned 
as a fpecimen. He is fmce unfortunately dead ; and little 
hopes are to be entertained of falling in with this tree again„ 
unlefs hmilar accidents fhould difcover it, or a change 
fliould take place in our com.merciai concerns with Africa. 
. I fhall nov/ mention another valuable wood, which, 
like all thofe that have been pointed out Vv^as difcovered 
by accident in the fame year. Another Vv^ood veffel, be- 
longing to the fame port, was difcharging her cargo. 
Aniong the barwood a fmall billet was difcovered, -the 



COlO' 



10 On the Impolicy of th^ 

colour of which was (o fuperlor to that of the rellr, as t($ 
iead the obferver to fufpe^t, that it was of a very different 
fpecies ; though it is clear that the natives, by cutting it 
of the fame fize and dimenfions, and by bringing it on 
board at the fame time, had, on account of its red colour, 
miftaken it for the other. One half of this billet was cut 
away in experiments. It was found to produce a colour 
that emulated the carmine, and was deemed to be fo va- 
luable in the dying trade, that an offer was immediately 
made of fixty guineas per ton for any quantity that could 
be procured. The other half has been fmce fent back to 
the coaft, as a guide to coUecl more of the fame fort ; 
though it is a matter of doubt, whether, under the cir- 
cumftances that have been related, the fame tree can be 
afcertained again. 

I could mention here feveral other woods, which would 
perhaps be new to the reader, and which would form a 
valuable branch of trade ; but thofe which I have men- 
tioned already, are fo important of themfelves, as to 
preclude the neceffity of a longer lift. I fhall therefore 
confine my obfervations to thefe. 

If the Have trade were abolifned, and the tv/o pofitions, 
mentioned in the former fedtion, realized, it is evident 
that a trade might be ftruck out in the preceding articles 
to great advantage and extent. The demand for maho- 
gany is increafmg not only in this country, but in Ger- 
■giany, to a confiderable amount. Suppofe then that the 
new trade were eflablifhed, what advantages would refiilt 
from the importation of this article in particular from 
the coaft ? 

Thefe advantages, I reply, will be beft feen by compa- 
rifon. The principal part of the mahogany, which ws 
import, comes from the Bay of Honduras, and is cut b^" 
jlaves. In Africa, according to the pofition laid down, it 
would be cut hy free men ; a circumftance of the higheft 
importance ; as the exertions oi free^ compared with thofe 
oi fervile labour, are at leaft in the proportion of three 
to two. The infurance alfo from the Bay of Honduras to 
the Britifh ports is from five to ten, v/hile that from Africa 
to the fame place is but two and a half per cent. The 
raw article, therefore, from thefe circumftances, and 

additionally 



African Slave TradeS ti 

additionally that of lower freightage, would be brought 
into the hands of the merchant and manufacturer, cheaper 
by more than a third than it eomes to them at prefent. 

I muft add too, that the voyage in the latter cafe is 
much lefs dangerous than in the former. That the infurer 
would be benefited by the change; and that as it is a 
maxim long eftabiifhed, that the cheaper the material the 
greater the demand for it, a confiderable increafe would 
be made to the exportation of this article ; a circumftance, 
in every point of view beneficial to the nation. 

With refpeCl to the other woods, thofe for cabinet work 
and dyings no advantages can refult from comparifon, be-- 
caufe there is no other place upon the globe, from whence: 
fuch treafures could be derived. 

The farmeTj^ however, would certainly be of great 
confequence. We already excel all the artifts of the 
world in this particular-department, and export largely.: — > 
But what an additional fcope would the many and 
variegated woods of Africa afford to the tafle and 
ingenuity of our countrymen ! It is to this tafte and 
ingenuity, confpicuous in the variety of patterns, and 
beautiful and harmonious difpofition of things, that v/e 
are to attribute our fuperiority in this line of meehanifm^ 
and that we become mechanics for the world. 

But with refpeil to the latter, they are certainly beyond 
all valuation. It is well known, at leaftr in particular 
manufacturing towns, that the African dyes are fuperiour 
to thoie of any other quarter of the globe. — Our manu- 
facturers have long viewed them with a jealous eye. They 
have promifed themielves prodigious fortunes, and their 
country a lafting and extenfive benefit, could they but 
make themfelves mafters of the art or myftery of the 
compofition of thefe invaluable dyes. It is certain, how- 
ever, that almofl all the colours, which the Africans ufe, 
except that of blue, are procured from their own treeSj 
either by friCtion or decoCtion ; and that though they have 
merit in the preparation of them, yet the great myftery 
would ceafe, if the flave trade were abolifhed, as fuch an 
event would give us an opportunity of making the ^xico'- 
veryj and of introducing them as articles of commerce. 

I fhall 



12 On the Impolicy of tiie 

I {liall make no further obfervatlon on this head, thai! 
that if accident has difcovered fuch invaluable treafijres as 
thofe defcribed, what might not be expefted, if this ex- 
tenfive continent were explored ? It at prefent affords uSj' 
comparatively fpeaking, fcarcely any thing elfe but flaves. 
Will any perfon afiert, that the woods of Africa alone, 
without reference to any of its other produ6i:ions, would 
not be more lucrative both to the merchant, the manufac- 
turer^ and the nation, than the whole trade mjlaves? 



SECTION IL 

But the woods, though uncommonly curious and va- 
luable, are not the only articles that are to be put into the 
fcale on this occafion. Another valuable commerce would 
be opened to us in other com.modities, fuch as drugs, 
peppers, and fpices. 

That Africa abounds with many valuable drugs, is not 
only evident from the teftimony of thofe who have refided 
there, but from our late and prefent im.portations. We 
have already derived many valuable drugs from that quar- 
ter : but thefe, like the woods, have been accidentally 
difcoveredj while others Ml more valuable^ are yet iii 
embryo. 

The firil, that were the obje(£l:s of comrherce, were 
gum fenegal, fanguis draconis, almonds, and afterwards 
palm oil. 

In procefs of time the virtues of gum copal were dif- 
covered by the French, who imported it into their own 
country. We v/ere not long unacquainted with this 
event, or with the advantages, that refulted from the 
difcovery. V/e endeavoured to obtain a defcription of 
the tree that produced it, and, having fucceeded in our 
attempts, pointed it out to the natives, and brought its 
produce home. 

The next that were brought to light, were guni rubrutn 
aftringens, and gum euphorbium. Thefe continued to 
be the laft on the lift, till the year 1786, when gum 
guaiacum made its appearance from the coaft. 

All 



African Slave Trade. ?3 

All thefe articles, or at leaft fpeclmens of them, liave been 
brought from thence into this country, and v/e have there- 
fore t pofitive proof of their exiftence there. I cannot 
fay, however, that they have been regularly brought. In 
ibme years not more than two or three, and in otliers little 
more than ftxcimens of them have been cohered ;^nQ 
recrular plan, as in other trades, having been yet eltablulied 
there ; nor would any fuch plan be likely to be attenaed 
with fuccefs, whild thcjlave trade engroiTes our attention. 
Without mentioning the variety of drugs that might be 
brought from Africa, I fhali im.mediately point out ths 
advantaees of haying them from thence. 

It is "clear that all thole, which we obtam from bpaniih 
America and the Brazils, are clogged with an expenfe, 
that would be avoided in having them from the other quar^ 
ter. In the iirft place there is a double freightage, and in 
the fecoAd,- commifTion, both of v.mich v/ould be faved 
were we to import them immediately from the coaft, Ths 
importer too would procure them at a lefs rate from hence, 
than even from the Eaft Indies or Turkey^ which are the 
only remaining places, from which he collecl:s them at 

prefent. r n • 

■ I come now to the peppers of Africa. The hrit, that 
was difcovered or imported, was maiaguetta, or grains of 
Paradife. This has now become an article of trade, and 
is regularly brought to us, either by the wood or llave 
veiTels, every year. , r ^ i r 

The fecond was the long pepper. A few barrels ot 
this have been occafionaily imported, but m fuch i*i^ali 
quantities, as fcarcely tp deferve notice. 

The third v/as the black pepper. This was fpund to be 
of a greater pungency, and of a finer flavour than the 
Afiatick. Tv/o calls of it v/ere brought to England 
about fix years ago : and this, I believe, was the only 
fpecimen from the coafi: ever exhibited in this country. 

The fourth was the cayenne. A captain of one of the 
wood veiTels procured a fmall quantity of it, and brought 
\t home in the year 1787. 

I have hitherto mentioned fuch of the African peppers, 
as being fimilar to thcfe from other quarters now in ufe, 
^re knov/n by name. There v/as one, hov/ever, dif- 
covered 



14 On the Impoxicy ot tke 

covered about twenty years ago on the fame coaft, wrtlj 
the name of which not any perfon, to whom it was 
fhewn, was at all acquainted. It was brought to Liver- 
pool in a flave veflel, and prelerved ; and was of fuch un- 
common fragrance and flavour, as to have retained its 
qualities to the prefent day. 

This account of the preceding articles, but particularly 
that of the latter, will give the reader an additional proof 
of the riches to be found in the African foil. He will fee 
the great advantages, v/hich would refult from a trade m 
thefe alone. But he will never be able to eftimate the lofs 
which we fuflain by the trade in JIaves, which hinders the 
country from being farther explored, and thofe inexhaufti- 
ble treaiures from coming forth^ which are now buried 
and concealed. 

The next article is that of fpices. 

The only fpices, that have been yet found m Africa^ 
are the caffia or vv^ild cinnamon, which is plentiful, and 
the nutmeg, of which a few folitary plants have been dif- 
covered. Thefe were moftly in a wild and unimproved 
Hate ; but by proper care and attention, there is no doubt, 
but that they might be brought to as great perfe^Slion, a$ 
thofe in any other place. 

The Dutch fupply us at prefent with thefe articles. 
They have become of late Tery exorbitant in their de- 
mands, and, were they ftill to increafe their prices, we 
fhould be obliged to fubmit, as they have a monopoly of 
this trade. 

Were our attention turned to the encouragement of 
thefe articles upon the coaft, it is clear that we might be 
the importers of our own fpices, and break the monopoly 
of the Dutch. 

The great advantages that would arife from having them 
from this quarter, (hall immediately be pointed out. The 
difference in a voyage only from England to Africa and 
back, and from Holland to the Moluccas and back, is at 
leaft fixteen thoufand miles. The wages of feamen em* 
ployed of courfe fo much longer in this voyage than in the 
ether, the greater confumption of provifions, and wear 
and tear of (hips, clearly point out, that if the Dutch 
were to lower their prefent prices to one half, thele articles 

would 



African Slave Trade, 1$ 

would not come into our hands at fo cheap a rate from 
thence, as thofe which would be imported from Africa. 
Now if we add to this the confiderations of double 
freightage, infurance, and commiffion, and that the fpices 
of Africa would be cultivated by free men, whereas in 
the Moluccas they are cultivated by flaves, it is a matter 
capable of proof, that we fhould import them from that 
continent for one fifth of their prefent price. 

There is yet one circumftance, of great Importance, 
which ought never to be forgotten. We pay for the 
o-reateft part of thefe articles at prefent in money. Were 
the trade alluded to eftabliihed in Africa, we fhould pay 
for them in our manufa£lureu 

SECTION III. 

Among the other articles, which the African continent 
produces, are tobacco, rice, and indigo, each of which 
would form of itfelf a diftind and valuable branch of 
trade. 

Tobacco Is to be found In almoft every divifion of thi$ 
continent in the greateft luxuriance, and, from the pecu- 
liar richnefs ot the foil, is fuperiour in quality to that 
which America produces. 

Rice is to be found in moft parts of Africa, but grows 
fo luxuriantly on the grain coaft in particular, that a 
fupply might be drawn from thence fufiicient for all the 
markets of Europe. It is extraordinary, that this rice 
Ihould be finer in flavour, of a greater fubftance, more 
wholefome and capable of prefervation, than the rice of 
any other country whatever, and that in every point of 
view, it fliould be fuperiour to the reft. 

Nor is the indigo of Africa, with which that continent 
abounds, lefs confpicuous for its pre-eminence in colour. 
The blue is fo much more beautiful and permanent than 
that which is extraded from the fame plant in other 
parts, that many have been led to doubt, whether the 
African cloths, brought into this country, were dyed with 
indigo or not. They apprehended that the colour in 
thefe, which became more beautiful upon wafhing, muft 
^ have 



i!& On the Impolicy of the 

have proceeded from another weed, or have been an 
extraction from fome of the woods, which are celebrated 
for dying there. The matter, however, has been clearly 
afcertahied. A gentleman procured two or three of the 
balls which had been jtift prepared by the Africans for 
ufe. He brought them home, and, upon examination, 
found them to be the leaves of indigo rolled up, and in a 
very fimple ftate. 

The reader may imagine by my account of the produc- 
tions of Africa hitherto namedj and by my Hatement of 
their fuperiority to others, that I have been rather dealing 
in iidion, than defcribing their real ftate. But it is v/ell 
known that Africa polTeffes the moil fertile foil of any in 
the globe : and I appeal to thofe who have vifited this 
cocift, and to fome of the manufacturing towns in this 
kingdom^ if my aiTertiens are not itridly true ^ if the 
rice of Africa is not beyond all others in point of favour, 
fubii^iice, and capacity of preiervaiion ; and if the indigo 
is not of thatj beautiful, permanent nature, as to have a' 
title to the pre-eminence afcribed. 

I fiiall nov/ obferve, that the two firil articles are ob-« 
tained at prefent n'om America ; the lafl in part from the 
fame place, and in part ircm the Britiili colonies, and 
thofe of foreign nations. 

This being premifed, the advantages that would refuU 
from having them from Africa, will eauly appear. 

In the firft place it is clear by the obferv^ations made, 
thrit all the three articles are at prefent produced by the 
labour of Haves. In Africa they would be produced by- 
free men, a circumflance, which would bring them into 
the hands of the merchant and manufacturer, cheaper by 
one third. 

There are alfo additional circumftances, peculiar to two 
of them, which v/ould have the fame tendency. 

In America rice generally grows in fwampy places, 
which are deilructive to the health of the c?iltivators, all 
v/hich cultivators are to be fucceeded, if they perifh, at a 
great expenfe. There are plantations, however, which 
are fituated upon drier land ; but thefe are contiguous to 
the banks of rivers, and require to be occafionally over- 
iioweda For this purpofe flood-^gates are conftru.6led>, 

and., 



African Slave Trade. ty 

and, below thefe, others of the fame kind, that the water 
may be taken off at difcretion : otherwife the crops would 
be inevitably deftroyed. The conftrucHon and repair of 
thefe mufl add confiderably to the expenfe. The African 
rice, on the other hand^ grows on the hilly parts, neither 
endangering the health of the Cultivator, nor requiring 
any other moifture or overflowing than the ufual rain. 

Indigo alfo is prejudicial to the health of thofe who 
manufacture it. This is occafioned by the ofFenfivenefs 
of the effluvia, which arife from it at that time. Novv" 
as thefe manufa6i:urers zrejlaves^ it is impoffible that the 
proprietors of them can furnifh it at fo cheap a rate, as 
thofe who would employ f?-ee men, and who, in the cafe 
of the death of their labourers, could renev/ them with^ 
out expenfe. 

Another circumftance, worthy of confideration, is this^ 
that a confiderable portion of human life would be faved, 
not only becaufe free men would have contrivances, which 
are not fo much as thought of for Haves, but becaufe the 
Africans have a method of preparing this article for ufe 
with but little detriment to their health ; fo that whether it 
w^ere to be manufactured by (laves, or free men, it would 
come with the higheft profpeCl of gain from this quarter. 

I muft not forget to addj that where we obtain indigo 
from the colonills of foreign nations, there is a double 
freightage, infurance, and commiilion, all which would be 
faved, v/ere the article to be brought to us frorfi the coaftb 

With thefe advantages then in particular, and addi- 
tionally v/ith thofe of free labour which have been ftated, 
it is clear, that Africa would afford the cheapeft market 
to the merchant and manufadurer, from v/hence they 
could derive the three articles defcribed ; and that the 
good effects of thus changing the place of export would, 
in procefs of time, be fo confpicuous, as to give u? rea- 
fon to hope, that the nation would foon be reimburfed for 
the treafures expended in the lofs of America. 

If there is any other advantage to be apprehended from 

the change, it muft be this -^ Our trade with America, 

fmce the late peace, has been rather a detriment than a 

gain. In confequence of the unprincipled conduCl of 

B many 



iB On the Impolicy of the 

many of the Americans, the merchant here has beeit 
ruined, the manufacturer has fhared his fate, and numbers 
have felt the iliock. Under thefe difadvantarres, we mud 
fcill continue to trade with them, becaufe we v/ant their 
commodities. From Africa we might derive the fame 
articles, but in greater perfeition, and with no rifk. The 
merchant would receive for his goods a cargo, more va- 
luable than that which he fent there, and would of courfe 
have no neceility to give credit, or to be uneafy, as in 
the prefent pofture of affairs, about remittances for his 
debts. 

SECTION IV. 

Though I have already mentioned many valuable pro- 
du6tions of the coaft, others ftill remain to be fpoken of* 
Upon thefcj however, I ihall not expatiate, except upon 
cotton, an article of too much importance to this country 
to be mentioned in general terms. 

That the reader may form a notion of this importance, 
I fhall inform him that twenty millions of pounds were 
brought into Great Britain for the ufe of our manufacturers 
in the year 1786. I iliall inform him alfo that two pounds 
of cotton, which coit the manufacturer fix {hillings, are 
worth, when manufacJtured into muilin, about five pounds 
in the grofs. What a prodigious advantage to this coun- 
try, that fo fmall a portion of this article ihoald give birth 
to fo much labour and profit as is equivalent to the funi 
new fpecified ! 

Cotton is to be found in alniors: every divifion of the 
coaft of Africa. It is moltly in a wild and uncultivated 
ftate. The natives however colle6t it for their own ufe, 
and work it up into thofe beautiful cloths, which are in 
fuch eirim.ation for their foft and filky appearance. A few 
pounds of it have been occafionally brought into England 
m the Itate defcribed. Neverthelsfs, they have claimed 
the preference at our markets, and have fetched their 
-price. 

To iliew the value of this article from the coaft, I 
iball ftate the rank, v/hich the cotton of different countries 
holds with the manufacturers pf the prefent day, who have 

ken 



African Slave Trade. 19 

feen fpecimens of It from almofi: every place, v/here it can 
be produced. 

It is a curious circumftance, but it has been efiabliflied 
by the experience of many years, that continents produce 
the fineft cotton, and that the larger the iflands, and of 
courfe the nearer they approximate to continents, the finer, 
is the cotton there. In the iirft clafs is reckoned the* 
Perfian and African. In the fecond that from the Brazils, 
Siam, and Surinam. In the third that from St. Domingo ; 
and in the fourth that from the Britifh Weft-India iilands. 

From this account, the advantage of having cotton 
from Africa, from whence we derive little more than fpe- 
cimens at prefent, muft appear. It is of the utmoft im- 
portance to the manufa61;urers of mufiin that their cotton 
ihould be fine. Their complaint is, that the very fineft of 
that, which they get from the prefent markets, is not 
equal to their wifhes. Could the Perfian or African be 
obtained, they v/ould efteem them an invaluable treafure. 

But though the fine quality of the African cotton would 
render the importation of it {o defirable to our manufac- 
turers, yet the eafy rate at which it could be procured, 
would be an object of great magnitude. 

A^s the chief part of the cotton brought to us at prefent, 
comes from the colonies of other nations, I fliall name one 
of thefe to Hiew the difference of the expenfe at which it 
could be brought from thence and from the other quarter. 

The cotton, v/hich we have from the Brazils, is firit 
fhipped for Portugal, where it is unloaded, and kept for 
fale. A part of it is then relbipped, on demand, and 
brought here. 

In this cafe it is clear, that double freightage, double 
infurance, and commiflion, are to be charged upon it. 

In the fecond place it pays on exportation from Portugal 
a duty of five per cent. 

In the third it is cultivated by flaves. 

Thefe circumftances are of fuch importance, that, in 
making the eftimate, it appears that the Britilli merchant 
could obtain as much cotton from Africa for fifty- fsven 
pounds, as he procures at prefent for an hundred froiii 
the colony now mentioned. 

B 2 In 



20 On the Impolicy op the 

In making this eftimate, it Is clear, that I have no4 
felefted a place that would be the molt favourable to my 
defign : for the cotton that comes to us by the vi'ay of 
France, is not only chargeable with the fiime kind of 
expenfes,. but, inltead of five^ pays twelve per cent, on 
exportation. 

I cannot clofe * my account of this article, without 
mentioning that cotton, crimfon in the pod, is to be found 
in Africa. It grows principally in the Eyeo country, and 
is to be feen in many of the Whidah cloths.. A fmall 
Ipecimen of it was brought home in the year 1786. 

The value of this cotton would be grejat both to the 
importer, and manufacturer of mufiins. The former 
would immediately receive eight {hillings for a pound of 
it, and the latter would gain confiderably more by his in- 
genuity and tafte. He might work it up into the white 
cotton in delicate fpots and figures, and as both would be 
of their natural colour,, no inconvenience would; arife 
from wafliing. 

The difcovery of this article affords an additional proof 
of the numberlefs treafures of the African foil, and gives 
us reafon to expe6t, that, if that continent were explored,, 
we fhould find fuch curious and valuable productions, as^, 
if related at prefent, would almoft be- beyond our belief,. 



SECTION V. 

If the readet were to be afked, what he could colleCI' 
from the preceding feCtions,. (allowing the different ftate- 
ments to be true) he v/ould fay, that Africa abounded 
with many valuable commodities j that it would be much 
more to our intereit to deal in thefe, than in flaves ; that 
the flave trade had been hitherto an infuperable impediment. 
to the introduction of a new commerce in the commodities 
defcribed ; and that an opportunity would prefent itfelf of 

* Befides the natural produ£iions already named, are to be reckoned 
Ijlver, wool, fkins, vermillion, quicklilver, mufk, fiik grafs, capficumj 
the fugar cane, the doom-wood, (which the worm never enters) and a 
variety of other articles^ upon wiiich 1 have no time to expatiate. 



African Slave Trade. 21 

repaying us for the lofs of America, were it once abollfhed. 

Thefe with other inferences he would immediately deduce. 

Though thefe conclufions are fo flriciiy to be drawn 
-from the fafts laid down, yet it would be unpardonable to 
-withhold the fentiments of a perfon on this occafion, from 
whom they muft receive fuch additional weight. 

It is remarkable, that the late Mr. Porfiethwayt, the 
•celebrated author of the di6:ionary on trade and commerce, 
ihould, in a pamphlet which he publiflied in the year 1748, 
not only endeavour to fhew the policy of the {lave trade, 
but attempt its jujiification ; and that the fame perfoti 
having afterwards made commerce his peculiar ftudy, and 
-being enabled to judge better of the nature of this trade, 
irom having been a member of the African Committee, 
ihould totally alter his fentiments both with refpedl to the 
policy and juflice of it. 

In his di(9:ionary.5 which was a fubfequent publicatiQn 
to that before mentioned, he ftates, that in Africa are to be 
/procured gold, filver, copper, corn, rice, gums, Ivory, 
cotton, wax, ,civet, oflrich feathers, dying woods, and 
mother valuable commodities. 

Among the queftions, which he afterwards fliates, I 
felecl the following. 

" Whether it would not "be more to the interefl of all 
"^' the European nations, concerned in the trade to Africa, 
"'^ rather to endeavour to cultivate a friendly, humane, and 
'" civilized commerce v/ith thofe people into the very 
" centre of their extended country, than to content them- 
■^'' felves only with Ikimming a trifling portion of trade on 
^ the fea coafts." 

^^ Whether the greatejl hindrance and o'hJJru^fion to the 
^■" Europeans cultivating an humane and chriftian-like 
" commerce with thofe populous countries has not wholly 
^' proceeded from that Zii/z/V^?, inhu?nan.^ and unchriftian-liks 
*-'' trafjick^ called xh^JIave irade^ which is carried on by the 
-" Europeans." 

There are fcarce any produ£l:ions, he adds, " in all 

*^ our Britifh American poiTeffions, but might be culti- 

-^' vated on the continent of Africa-, and if ever we 

^^ fhouid be unhappy enough to hs d'lfpojfejjed of them^ 

B 3 "our 



22 Om the Impolicy of the 

^' our trade in this part of the world might contribute to 

^^ make us compe-njat'ionJ''' 

Having fliated thefe circumftances, only by way of con-^ 
firmation, I fhail immediately recur to the queftion, as 
ftated in the early part of the prefent chapter, and decide 
upon it accordingly. 

It was faid there, that Africa had two forts of com- 
modities to offer us,- — her natural productions — and her 
ilaves; and that the queftion was in which of the two^ 
confidered abftra6iedly by themfelves, it would be moft 
politick to deal. 

The former have already been Hated, and it appears 
that, viewed as they have been in this abilraCled light, 
they would afford an inexhaultible mine of Vv^ealth to our 
dyers and artificers in wood ; that they would enable us 
to break the monopoly of the Dutch j would repay us for 
the lofs of America ; be the cheapeit market for all forts 
of raw materials for our manufav3:urers 5 and abound with 
other national advantages. 

The latter are now to be balanced againft thefe, as 
articles of commerce : V/ill any perfon come forward an4 
fay, that, confidered in the fame abllrafted light, they are 
productive of one national advantage ? The moft that he 
can fay, will be, that they are of benefit but to a few 
ifidividnah^ and thofe fo infinitely fev/, v/hen compared 
Vv'ith thofe v/ho would be benefited and enriched by the 
former, that he v/oul4 be aihamed of the ccmparifon. 

If the ilave trade then, Vv^hen (tripped of its appendages, 
is attended vi^th no emolument to the publick ; if, more- 
over, it binders the introduction of one, to v/hich, if is 
were co;p.pared in the fame light, it v/ould be like an 
ijland to a continent^ or a river to 2.fea^ it is furely, of all 
others, the moft impolitlck trade that this country car\ 
carry on. 



CHAP. IL 



African Slave Trade. 23 

CHAP. 11. 
SECTION I. 

Having made an inquiry in the preceding chapter, 
v/hether it would be more to the benefit of the publick to 
trade in the natural produ(3:ions of the country, or in 
Haves, [ {hall now inquire v/hich of the two v/ould be of 
greater emolument to individuals 3 for this argument has 
been aifo flarted, and the policy has been inferred from the 
profits of the trade. 

There are two or three criterions, by which a valuable 
trade may be afcertained. Thefe are little rifque, quick 
returns, and a large profit. To this ftandard then I fnall 
refer the trade in llaves. 

There was never, perhap?, a trade more difadvanta- 
geous, in the firii: inftance, than that v/hich I am now 
confidering. The competition upon the coaR- is at prefent 
great, and the goods which a veflel takes for the purchafe 
of a certain number of llaves, may not, fi'om this circum- 
ftance, be adequate to the purchafe of three- fourths of the 
rated number : fo that the merchant, in the firft place, 
may buy them dearer than his calculations, and find an 
immediate and confiderable diminution of his profit, if 
not the certainty of a lofs. 

Another circumitance, and the moll important of all 
that renders this commerce peculiarly hazardous, is the 
mortality that may arife among the llaves, both during 
their flay upon the coaft, and the middle pafiage. If they 
are treated ever fo well, if every attention is paid to their 
convenience, or their wants, it is often impoilible to pre- 
vent it, or to fay, when it begins, where it is likely to 
end, or in what proportion they will be lofi: : and that 
fome velTels have loft more than two-thirds of their Haves, 
the annals of Liverpool will evince. 

A third circumliance is this, that when they arrive in 
the Weft-Indies, the markets may have been glutted, or 
fuch a number of fhips may be thei-e at the fame time, 
that they mud either beat about to the different iflarids, 
and ioic more of them by ficknefs, or fell them lower 
B 4 than 



24. On the Impolicy of the 

than the average rate, calculated at the beginning of the 
voyage. 

A fourth is the length of the date, before the bills, in 
which the)? are paid for, become due. — ^Thefe bills are 
drawn at twelve, eighteen, twenty-four, and thirty-fix 
months after fighto They give time of courfe for many 
difagreeable circumftances to intervene. Add to this, 
that they are fometimes returned for want of payment, 
even when this period has elapfed. 

This being the cafe, it is clear, that there are four 
circumftances, concomitant on this trade, that confpire 
to render it of ail others the mofl hazardous, Thefe have 
occafioned it to be juftly diftinguifhed by the appellation 
of a lottery. Upon this principle, moft of its promoters 
have embarked in it; fome to be rich on a fudden, others, 
on their laft legs, to retrieve their affairs by one fortunate 
voyage. This is the only light, in which it is to be 
viewed with propriety ; for they who embark in it are 
as much adventurers as thofe, who, to anfwer the fame 
end, have recourfe to the games of chance. 

With refpe^l to a quick return, v/hich is the very life of 
commerce, no trade was ever fo difadvantageous, as that 
in Haves, The average time of a voyage is one year. 
At the expiration of this period, the velTel returns. On 
infpeiling the bills, which are brought home, and which 
have been received for the flaves, it appears, that they are 
not payable, on an average, till two years after fight. 
The merchant, therefore, cannot enjoy the profits of his 
voyage till three years after he has fent his veflel to the 
coaft. 

In the interim he is called upon to pay for the goods, 
which he has (hipped. In fix months his bill for fpirits 
is brought him, though, in one of our ports, it mult be 
paid for on delivery. In fourteen he muft account for his 
Eaft-Indian affortments, and in eighteen for thofe of Man- 
chefter and Birmingham ; fo that he muft pay for the 
whole of his cargo a year and an half before he can de-r 
rive any benefit from his returns. This occafions him 
often to be fo diftrelTed, that the manufa6i:urer is put ofF, 
A credit of fix rnonths longer is folicited. To hear the 

pitiful 



Afp.ican Slave Trade, 25 

pitiful tales he tells, and the wretched excufes he makes, 
on thefe occafions, is truly difguiring. This is lurely not 
a trade for the manufacturers of Great Britain ; and that 
I have been defcribing the real fituation of things, is but 
too well knov/n to thofe who have felt it. 

With refpe^i to the real profit of the trade, I might 
appeal to thofe particular fhips, v/Ith an account of Vv'hofe 
voyages I have been favoured. Two of them, after hav- 
ing made three voyages each, which took up the fpace of 
five years, left their ov^^ners in debt, and obliged them to 
relinquifh the trade. Another cleared the fum of four 
thcufand pounds j but the fame fnip, in her next voyage, 
iofl more than ihe had gained in the preceding. Another 
gained fifty per cent, but her fuccefs v/as undone by a 
fecond, which v/ent out at the fame time and in the fame 
employ, and loft in the fam.e proportion. Thefe inftances, 
however, being few, I fhall lay no ftrefs upon them, but 
recur to general fa6ts. 

The great African company, which was vefled with 
extraordinary powers, and which .had every opportunity 
of feeling the emoluments of the trade, //?i/^i twice. 

From the year 1763 to the year 1772 the London mer- 
chants avoided all kind of conne£cion with thofe of Liver- 
pool in this trade, from a convi6i:ion that, during that 
time, it had not been profecuted but with lofs. 

The fame caution continued till the year 1778; for 
within that fmall fpace of time, comprizing only the term 
of fix years, the flave merchants there failed for the fum 
cy^feveh hundred and ten thcufand pounds^zud. the confequent 
bankruptcies were many. 

During the American war, while the price of a flave 
was as low as feven pounds on the coaft, and as high, on 
an average, as forty-five in the colonies, the adventurer, 
who efcaped the fhips of the enemy, made his fortune. 
But fmce the peace, the trade has returned to its former 
{fate ; and it is confidered as a fa£^, at the ports where it 
. is carried on, that it is a loftng trade at the prefent day: 
that is, if the difourfements and returns of all the veflels, 
that go cut in one year, were to be confolidated on their 
arrival home, and compared, the former would be gi t^ater 

than 



'xS On the Impolicy of the 

than the latter, and there would of courfe be a deficieney, 
ox balance againft the fum total of the adventurers in 
this trade. 

But it will be faid, if it be an unprofitahle trade, why 
do people embark in it, or how does it happen, that many 
can be pointed out, who have made their fortunes there ? 

I reply, that the flave trade is a lottery^ as I ob- 
ferved before, and that upon this principle the phenome- 
non may be fatisfadiorily explained. 

It is evident firPc, that if a perfon were to become the 
proprietor of all the tickets in the wheel, the balance 
v/ould be greatly againil: him. So alfo, were he to be 
the proprietor of all the iliips in the flave trade, he would 
experience a confiderable lofs, as his difburfements would 
be then greater than his returns. 

It is clear alfo, that there are many valuable prices m 
the lottery, but more blanks. So it is with this trade. 
A few merchants have made their fortunes, but more have 
been lofers by it. A few will ftill continue to make them, 
but many will be ruined. 

But how come they to engage in it ? I reply, ^vhy da 
people enq;age in the games of chance ? In (hort, in no 
other light can the Have trade be viewed, than in that de- 
fcribed : and, the things compared being both of the fame 
kind, any difficulty that occurs in the one, may be folved 
by referring it to the other. 



SECTION IL 

Having taken a general view of the value of the flave 
trade, by referring it to the three chara<5i:erifticks, which 
rpay be called a fi:andard for commercial efiiimation, I 
iliall put the commerce in the produ61:ions of the coaft 
under the fame trial. 

It is clear, in the firfl: place, that this commerce v/ould 
not be equally hazardous with the former ; rice, indigo, 
tobacco, fpices, and other produdiions of Africa not being 
perijhahle commodities, like Haves. 

in the fecond place, the merchant would receive his 
returns in five months, inilead of three years, from the 

failinff 



African Slave Trade, ^7 

failing of his velTel ; and he would be able to turn them 
into fpecie before he had advanced a (hilling to, or had 
had a demand from, the manufailurer v/hom he had em- 
ployed. Nor would the latter be lefs benefited by the 
change, as no longer credit would be neceffary, than that 
of eight months. Thus a quick circulation of money 
would take place, and the countenance, inftead of ex- 
hibiting marks of uneafinefs and diftrefs, v/ould be cheered 
with joy. 

In the third place, the merchant in this trade would fet 
out with tv/o advantages over the merchant in the other. 
His infurance would be confiderably lefs, and, requiring 
from the m.anufadlurer a credit only of eight months, he 
would fave five per cent, on all the goods, which he 
{hipped ; or in other words, on account of the difcount 
allowed him, he would carry the fame quantity of goods 
for ninsty-five pounds to the fame coall, v/hich the Have 
merchant cannot carry, in the prefent fituation of things, 
but for an hundred. 

As to the real pront which he would have on the articles 
brought home, fome hints have been given in the preced- 
ing chapter. For bringing them to a market, where, 
thofe of the fame kind, vv^hich come, are chargeable with 
a double freightage, commiiiion, and the labour of Haves, 
his profits mufc be immenfe. 

If the comparifon is to be extended farther, I may add, 
that while the velTel of the Have merchant is performing one 
voyage, that of the other v/ould perform two : fo that if 
the flave trade were highly profitable, and one voyage in 
that line v/ere tv/ice more advantageous than one in the 
ether, they would be reduced to an equality by this cir- 
f:umftance alone. 

If then it appears, by referring the two trades to the 
fame ftandard, that the trade in the natural productions ot 
the country would be more valuable to individuals, (and 
its benefits more extenfively felt) than the trade in flaves, 
an additional argum^ent prefents itfelf againft the/yZ/Vj- of 
the latter, fince it is not only hazardous, fiow in its re- 
turns, and in the aggregate unprofitable, but hinders ^^z 
introdufcion of one, v/hich would be attended with the 

CHAP. IIL 



28 On the Impolicy of the 

CHAP. III. 

Before I proceed, I muft paufe for a little time, to take 
siotice of an argument, which may have already fuggefted 
itfelf to the reader, and which, if it does not meet with a 
replication here, may be confidered as rendering the whole 
of my former obfervations of no effe6l. 

It is faid, and it is ftrongly infifted upon by the advo-- 
cates for the trade in flaves, that it is politick^ becaufe it 
cngroffes the attention of the Africans, and hinders them 
from cultivating fuch of the productions of their own foilj 
as would interfere with thofe of our own colonies. 

Now, if this would a6lually be the cafe, if the produc- 
tions of Africa, mentioned in the firft chapter, would 
claih with thofe of our kindred ftates, it would be highly 
improper, in the eye of the politician^ to introduce the 
other trade, however valuable it might appear. I fay in 
the eye of the politician^ becaufe his argument with the 
moralill is exaftly this : — *' I have a field fown with a 
particular grain, which yields me fome advantages. — ^ 
Another perfon has unfortunately the fame kind of grain 
in his poffelTion. If he fows it, his produCrions will clafh 
with mine. I muft therefore procure him to be kidnap- 
ped, or I muft excite dilTenfions in his family, that will 
keep him engaged, or fend him out of the way." 

However, as it is termed a good political argument, 
and as it might tend to fet afide the obfervations made in 
the preceding chapters, I feel myfelf called upon to reply 
to it in the prefent place. 

With refpeCt to the woods of Africa, it is probable that the 
article of mahogany, if imported from that quarter, would 
clafh in fom.e meafure with that which would be brought 
from the Bay of Honduras. When I have allowed this, 
I may take upon me to fay, that there is no other article 
from the coaft, which would interfere with thofe produced 
in our own colonies. 

It is certain that thofe for dying, and moft of thofe 
for cabinet and other work, would not be liable to the 
pbjedion, becaufe there are no woods, as yet difcovered 

on 



African Slave Trade. 



25 



©n the face of the globe, that are of the fame properties 
©r kind. 

The drugs^ which we procure at prefent, are imported 
from the following places, viz. the Britifh Eaft Indies,, 
Turkey, the Brazils through the medium, of Portugal, 
and South America, through that of Spain. 

It is unneceflary to make any farther ftatement than 
this, as there are three places out of four, from whence 
we derive them that zxt foreign^ 

The next article of the new commerce would be that 
of Spices. All thefe are at prefent monopolized by the 
Dutch. 

The tobacco, which we import. Is principally obtained 
from two places, Virginia and Maryland. Thefe^ by the 
late revolution, are foreign ftates. A fmall quantity isy 
however, cultivated in the Britifh Weft Indian illands, 
but this is generally for plantation ufe, and if we except a 
few hogfheads brought to us from St. Vincents, it may 
be faid that this article, if produced in Africa, would not 
at all interfere with the produftions of our prefent 
colonies. 

With refpe6l to rice a few words will be fufficient. It 
is brought to us from Carolina and Georgia, and in fuch 
a proportion, that ninety-nine parts in an hundred come 
to us from thofe ftates. 

The Indigo, which is imported into this country, is 
procured from the Brltifti Eaft Indies, the Britifh Weft 
Indies, Carolina, and Georgia, the French Weft Indies 
by the way of France, the Brazils by the way of Portugal, 
and South America by the way of Spain. The quantity 
annually imported from them all is about 1,350,000 
pounds, of which about 1,000,000 or more than five- 
fevenths are the produce o^ foreign ftates. 

The cotton, which we have obtained for fome time, 
has been cultivated in the Britifti and French Weft Indies, 
the Dutch Eaft Indian fettlements, Turkey, and the 
Brazils. The whole quantity imported in the year 1786, 
was 20,000,000 pounds. That from the Britifti colonies 
5,157,698. So that we are under the neceffity of pro- 
curing 14,842,302 pounds,, or nearly three-fourths annu- 
ally from foreigners^ 

This 



3^ , On the ImpojLicy of the 

This llatemeRt, v/hich is as accurate as any that carf 
be obtained, fhevvs to us the fallacy of the argument ; and 
that we are fo far from being likely to interfere with the 
colonics of our own, as in fail to give a blow to thofe of 
our rival flates. Indeed, the argument is of an early 
date, and iirfl made its appearance while America v/as 
our own. It was certain, at that period, that by keeping 
the Africans engaged in the trade in flaves, we hindered 
them from producing fuch of their own commodities, as 
would have greatly interfered with thofe of our then colo- 
nies* The inconfiderate, hovt^ever, who have not attended 
to the late revolution there, have been bold enough to 
retain it, though nothing is more certain than that (the 
Americans being now aliens, and other circumftances being 
taken into confideration) it becomes a matter of policy to 
have them from another quarter. 

Indeed, among the various events, that feem for fome 
time to have been haftening on, and v/orking together 
for the abolition of the flave trade, none appears to be of 
greater importance in this refpecSi: than the revolution be- 
fore mentioned. As long as America was our own, there 
was no chance that a miniiier would have attended to the 
groans of the fons and daughters of Africa, however he 
might have felt for their diftrefs. From the fame fpot, 
which was thus once the means of creating an infu- 
perable impediment to the relief of thefe unfortunate peo- 
ple, our affeftion, by a v/onderful concatenation of events, 
has been taken ofF, and a profpef!: has been prefented to our 
viewj which Ihews it to be polky to remove their pain.' 



CHAP. IV. 

SECTION L 

Having now provided againfl an obflacle which might" 
have been thrown into my way, I fhall proceed. 

In the iirfl and fecond chapters I confidered the trade 
m flaves in an abRraded light, that I might balance it 
both nationally and individually-^ againft that in the pro- 
ductions of the ccaftj as well as anfwer certain arguments 

ufuallj 



African Slave Traded 3.5 

ufually advanced in its defence. But as this trade has 
fome appendages^ and as thefe appendages are laid to be of 
the higheft importance to the ftate, I fnould be an unjufi: 
arbiter of the cafe, if I did not take them into coniidera- 

tion. 

The advocates for the Have trade earneftly contend, 
that it is a iiurfery for our feamen. Upon no one argument 
have they declaimed with greater exultation than upon 
this \ v/ell knowing that our feamen are the pillars of the 
ftate, and that every trade, which conduces to rear and 
fupport them, it muft be highly politic to continue, and 
highly dangerous to fupprefs. 

Before I enter into the important argument advanced, 
it will be neceffary to give the reader a hiflory of the fea- 
men employed in this trade 5 not only becaufe fuch an hif- 
tory ought to be prefented to his viev/, but becaufe it will 
enable him to judge of the truth of certain pofitions, to be 
mentioned in a future chapter. 

To beo-in : The v/ages, which able feamen receive in 
this trade, are from thirty to forty fhillings per month. 
They have alfo two months advance-money, and their 
employers do not ftand upon character. 

In other trades they receive from thirty to thirty-five 
Hiiliings per month, have but one month's advance-money^ 
and wTil feldom, like other fcrvants, be taken but with a 
chara6ler from their former mafters. 

The firft idea, that m.ufl fuggeft itfelf to the reader from 
this comparative view, will be this, that it muft be a 
difficult matter to procure feamen for this trade, or fuch 
extraordinary temptations would not be held out to them 
to embark. This' is literally the h.di : for thefe are as cer- 
tain criterions of the difncuity which I intended fnould be 
furmifed, as the price of infurance of the hazard cf a voy- 
age, or as any other eftabliihed marks of difcrimination 
in any other cafe. 

The difncuity of procuring feamen for the {lave trade is 
v/ell known at the ports v/here it is carried on, though 
the advocates for it have afkrted the contrary to thofe, 
whom they knev/ to have had no opportunity of inquiring 
into the fadl. 

At 



§i On the Impolicy of the 

At one port in particular they have gone fo far as to ad- 
vance, that they have as many offers for making up the 
complements of their fhips, as they can accept. But they 
conceal the ti?/2e and occafion of thefe profFered fervices. 
When the fhips from Greenland and the Weft-Indies ar- 
rive and difcharge their crevi^s, the former of which put 
twelve hundred feamen adrift nearly at the fame time, the 
flave velTels, then in port, find but little difficulty in pro- 
curing hands. But what inference can be drawn from 
hence ? Not furely a partiality for the trade, but that many 
are thrown out of employ, whom necelTity compels to 
embark. 

On the other hand, when the fame fhips are refitting 
in the fpring of the year, the matter is totally reverfed. 
The Have- merchant is in the greateft diftrefs for a crewi 
He offers even three months advance -money ; but this has 
but little weight ; and few feamen would ever voluntarily 
embark with him on any terms, fo long as a fhip 
of any other defcription was fitting out, and was in want 
of hands. 

This is the true criterion, by which a judgment is to be 
formed in the prefent cafe, and if added to the three clr- 
cumftances before mentioned, which are eftabllfhed rules 
of commercial regulation, will prove an infuperable ar- 
gument againft the afTertions ufually advanced by the pa- 
trons of this trade. 

The feamen then, now under confideratlon, except 
at the time fpecified, are obtained in the following 
ways. 

It has been cuftomary to allure them into the fervice 
under the promlfe of making them mates. When they 
come on board, they a6l as officers of the fhip ; but foon 
after they have been at fea, they are degraded on a pre^ 
tended charge of neglect. By thefe inlidious means fe- 
veral foremaft men have been annually obtained for the 
voyage. 

But the great bulk of them are procured thus. There' 
are certain landlords, who, allured by the high wages 
given them in this trade, the advance-money of twa 
months, and the promifes of the merchant, open 
houfes for their reception, Thefe, having a general 

knowledge 



African Slave Trade. 33 

knowledge of the fhlps and feamen in the port, and beino- 
always on the look out, Intice fuch as are more unwary 
or in greater diftrefs than the reft into their houfes. They 
entertain them with mufick and dancing, and keep them 
in an intoxicated ftate for fome time. In the interim the 
Have merchant comes, and makes his application. The 
unfortunate men are fingled out ; are perhaps taken from a 
dance. Their bill is immediately brought them. They 
are faid to be more in debt, than even two months ad- 
vance-money will difcharge. They have therefore an 
offer made them, a JIave-veJJel — or a goal. 

The former being accepted, the landlord, beiides a gra- 
tuity, receives a promilTory note for the fum equal to their 
advance-money from the merchant, and, like Haves, 
delivers them to the veffel. 

Thus put on board, and fenfible of the mean and un- 
generous advantages that have been taken of their unwari- 
iiefs and neceility, their * dillike to the fervice is only 
heightened, and they do not fail to exhibit proofs of it in 
the following manner : 

In a certain month of the laft year, four Have veflels 
were v/alting for their men. The firft, in confequence 
of the exertions before mentioned, had received a certain 
number ; but they no fooner found an opportunity of 
efcaping, than all of them left her, and on the fame day. 

In the fecond were feven, that had been procured in 
the fame manner. Thefe, foon afterwards, in fpite of all 
oppofition, forced themfelves into the boat, and came on 
Ihore. 

The third had fcarcely completed her complement, 
when twenty-five of the people left her at once, and 
tv/enty followed them on the next day. 

By this time the firft had again completed her crew : 
but lb fearful was the merchant that thefe alfo would make 

* I do not mean any dlflike to the trade, becaufe they confider it to 
be iniquitous, but becaufe the cruel treatment of feamen in this trade 
is notorious, of which the reader will fee fome fpecimens hereafter. 
1 have known a landlord, who opened his houfe for the reception of V/eft 
India feamen, on an application from a Have merchant for men, refufe 
him folely from the motive that he fliould affront all thofe who lodged 
with him, were he barely to propofe it to their confideracion. 

C their 



34 On the Impolicy of the 

their efcape, that the fhip was immediately hurried to Tea, 
though the weather was much againft her. Hov/ they 
bore fo fudden and fo abrupt a departure, I cannot pofi- 
tively aiHrm ; but, if the pilot is to be credited, there was 
nothing but difratisfa6tion and murmur on board, while 
he was taking them out of the channel. 

From the fourth two of the crew, feeing no other op- 
portunity of getting away, leapt overboard in the night, 
though the fhip was at that time more than a mile from 
the ihore. 

It is unneceflary to make any comments upon thefe 
inftances. I fhall therefore only add, that they feldom 
or ever happen, and that feamen offer their fervices, in 
other trades. 



SECTION II. 

While the crew are colle£lIng in the manner above def- 
cribed, the articles of agreement are prepared. Thefe 
articles Hate the nature and circumftances of the en- 
gagements of the feamen on board the velTel, and are to 
be figned by them before their departure from their native 
ihore. 

Some of thefe articles are too iniquitous to be omitted, 
I fhall therefore give the reader an extra6l of one of them 
in my pofTeilion. 

The firil claufe is, " That the crew fhall conform and 
" demean themfelves in every refpecl according to the late 
'^ a6l of parliament for the better regulation of feamen in 
" his /i'f^jy//^ fervice." This artful fubflitution of the 
word Majefly s for Merchant's-^ when fubfcribed to, gives 
the officers, in their own opinion, a power of infli61:ing 
fevere puniihment upon their men, and of gratifying their 
favage difpofition. 

The (qcoti^ is, " That one half of their wages is to be 
" paid them in the Wefl-Indies or America, in the cur-* 
'' rency or proclamation money there." This claufe is 
equally artful with the former : for though the merchant 
holds out to them the bait cf greater v/ages nominally, hq 
gives them intrinfically lefs than in other trades. 

In 



African Slave Trade, 35 

In the third it is ftipulated, " that if they jQiould die 
upon the coaft, their executors fhall receive the wages due 
to them at that time, in the current money of the place, 
at which the fhip difpofes of her Haves. 

The fourth is, " That if they fliall commence any a6lion 
either at common law or at a court of admiralty, either on 
account of any thing in thefe prefents contained, or on 
account of any other matter whatfoever that may happen 
during the voyage, without firft referring it to the arbitra- 
tion of the officers or owners within twenty days after 
their arrival at the port of difcharge, they ihall forfeit 
fifty pounds." 

. This, added to the firft claufe, arms the ofHcers com- 
pleatly, and gives them fcope, as they imagine, to practice 
any barbarities, which they m.ay pleafe to infli^i upon 
their crew. 

Thefe articles being prepared for their fignature, they 
are called up. This is generally done when the ihip is 
weighing her anchor, or at fome time when they are about 
to be bufily employed. A neceffity for expedition is 
pleaded : and they fign v/ithout ever feeing, or being per- 
mitted to fee, the nature of the engagements which they 
are making. The articles are folded up in a curious 
manner for this purpofe ; and fome, who have been more 
wary than the refc, and have perfifted in the refolution of 
feeing, before they figned them, have been knov/n to be 
put on fhore. 

If I am to (hew the iniquity cf thefe m.eafures in a 
ftronger light, it muft be by comparing them with the 
pra6lice in other trades. 

The articles, now the objeds of comparifon, are 
* printed. They are either read, or left open to the iij- 
ipe^lion of the feamen before they fign. The crews, that 
embark to the very jcune coaji for wood, know nothing of 
current money, nor of the claufes before mentioned. The 
Weft-India feamen, who meet at the fame port v/ith thofe 
in the Have veffels, and where currency is in force, are not 
obliged to take the half of their wages there. In ihort, 

* I muft do juftice to fome of the merchants of Liverpool, who make 
ufe of printed articles, ana omit the firtt and fourth claufes. 

C 2 whether 



36 OxM THE Impolicy of the 

whether we view the arts and pra(Slices in this trade, either 
independently of themfelves, or by coniparifonj they equally 
excite our deteftation and difeuft. 



SECTION III. 

The articles of agreement being figned, they proceecf 
to fea. From the port of Briftol, as foon as they have 
paffed the Ifland of Lundy, and from the port of Liver- 
pool, as foon as they have cleared the Black Rock, the 
officers generally order an inftrument to be made, called a 
catj which is alledged to be prepared for the punifhment 
of the flaves. The handle of it is a rope of three inches 
and a half in circumference, and it has nine tails attached 
to it of knotted cord. This inftrument cannot legally 
be ufed on board any other but one of his Majefty's ihips, 
and in other trades, except the Eafl Indian^ is unknown. 

From this period till their arrival upon the coaft, they 
begin to ufe it upon the feamen, though at firft with mo- 
deration, or only fo, as to prepare the way for the feve- 
rities that are to follow. In a certain time, however, they 
apply it without referve. But here a tragedy commences, 
of which the reader can have no conception, but which 
however muft be fubmitted to his view. 

I am fenfible, that if I were to talk in general terms of 
the cruelties exercifed upon the feamen in this trade, I 
fhould have but little attention paid to my narration by 
the publick, nor v/ould they have that idea of them, which 
it is the duty of every perfon, acquainted with the faits, 
to communicate. I ihall therefore wave all general alTer- 
tions, and confine mjfelf for the prefent to the occurrences 
in one fhip. 



A 



African Slave Trade. 



37 



-*A Muster Roll for the Ship 



•5 from Africa 



and the Well-Indies. 



Men's names. 



When and where , j 1 -n j 1 

J • ^ charged, killed, dead, 

entered into pay. , ^ ° ,' „ >^^'^^: 
'^ ■' deferted, &c. 



Time each, 
man ferved. 



I. — 



2 

3 

4 
5 
6 

7 
8 

9 

lo 

II 

12 
13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 
19 

20 
21 
22 



IE 

! = 
IE 

&c. &c, 



^ * The three contained in the lafl bracket, do not ftand as in the ori- 
ginal mufter roll, but are put together for the fake of elucidating the 
cafe. 



C3 



The 



%% On the ItvIpolicy of th£ 

The captain of this vefTel began, as uiual, to prac^iie 
his barbarities a little before his arrival upon the coaft. 
He took the opportunity of beating his crew repeatedly, 
and for imaginary faults. He had alfo on board a large 
dog, which he was accuftomed to fet upon the men for 
his diverfion ; at the fame tim.e fwearing, that if any of 
the crew fhould attempt to take off the dog on any fuch 
occafion, he would ihoot him for the attempt. 

The treatment, which was thus begun, was continued 
upon the coaft, and in fuch a licentious degree, as to be- 
come infupportable, and to alarm the feamen for the fafety 
of their lives. 

The eleven contained in the firil bracket having been 
cruelly ufed, and feeing no hopes of a termination to their 
fufferings fo long as they ftaid there, came to the refolu- 
tion of deferting ; chufnig rather to trufl: to an inhofpita- 
ble climate, and an uncivilized people upon the fliore, 
than to ftay on board their own velTel. They accordingly 
cut their way through the netting in the night. They 
feized the long boat, erected an oar for a maft, and a 
hammcck for a fail ; and, thus provided, they took their 
final departure from the fhip. 

It was but a ihort time before they dropped down the 
river, where the veffel lay. They then coafted along to 
make for a certain place, but were driven beyond it before 
they could get to land. To cut their ftory lliort : Eight 
of them, after experiencing many hardfliips, died. The 
ether three were taken in by a vefiel bound to the colonies 
withflaves. One of them died on the middle paffage. 
The remaining, two, in procefs of time, came home, but 
in fo weak and impaired a flate, that their recovery was 
long doubtful ; for one had additionally to ftruggle with 
two large holes in his fhoulder, which the dog, before 
mentioned, had torn at the inflig-ation of his mafter. 

This v/as the iirft efFe6t of the barbarous ufage on 
board the veilel, whofe mufter roll has been cited. I ihali 
now continue my account. 

The three, inclofed in the next bracket, were a part of 
the complement of a Have ve&ly which had upfet upon 
the coaft, and who had efcaped to this fhip. They had 

been 



African Slave Trade. ^Q 

been but a fhort time on board, before they experienced 
the fame treatment as the reft of the crev/. 

The firft of them was ufed in the following manner. 
In lov/ering down the awning one evening, the captain 
fwore that he had fufFered it to touch a boat, which he 
had amufed himfelf in painting the fame day ; though no 
mark was vifible, by which it could be traced that the 
awning had ever touched it all. For this imaginary fault 
he knocked him down, and then jumped upon his breaft. 
He afterwards beat him in a moft inhuman manner with 
a rope of three inches and a half in circumference. The 
poor man, in confequence of this treatment, became illj 
and complained to the furgeon and furgeon's mate of the 
pain which he then felt. The captain, however, hap-* 
pened to overhear his complaint, when he immediately 
ordered him to go forv/ard, or he v/ould repeat his for- 
mer treatment, commanding the furgeon's m_ate, at the 
fame time, not to admlniiler to him any relief, under the 
penalty of being ferved in the fame manner. 

The furgeon, however, and his mate, privately vifited 
the fick man in the night, by means of a dark lanthorn, 
and gave him every affiftance in their power. They found 
feverai contufions on his neck, back, breaft, and arms, 
which were fo bad as to occafion him to fpit blood, and 
to void the fame by ftool. This afterwards turned into a 
dyfentery or flux, and on the feventh of the month of ' 
the unfortunate man died. 

It may not be amifs to add, that the dying man repeat- 
edly thanked the furgeon for his tendernefs and care, and 
that he repeatedly told him, that the captain had been the 
occafion of his death, generally adding, at the fame time, 
that " he could not punifh him, but that God would." 

The other tv/o were alfo treated in an unmerciful man- 
ner. One of them, on his arrival in the Weft Indies, 
died. The other had the good fortune to get to his na- 
tive home. 

The flrft of the two, contained in the third bracket, 
was the furgeon's mate of the vefTel. On a certain day, 
being on fhore with fome fick flaves, he v/as beaten io 
unmercifully by the captain, as to be taken up infenfible. 
The brute, not fatisfied with this, puilied the ftick of his 

C 4 umbrella 



40 On the Impolicy of the 

umbrella againft his belly as he was lying upon the grouncJ, 
and with fuch force, as to caufe a moft violent pain fof 
fome days : the only reafon alledged for this treatment 
was, that four flaves had died of the flux the preceding 
night. 

On the fixteenth day of the next month, he vented his 
fury again on the fame perfon, and with as little caufe ; 
for coming out of his cabin, and finding a girl Have dead, 
whofe death had not been reported to him before dinner, 
. he immediately feized him, and knocked him down. He 
then jumped upon his breaft. He afterwards beat him in 
a cruel manner with the but end of the cat, v/hich I men- 
tioned before to be a rope of three inches and an half in 
circumference, fo that on the next day his head was found 
to be much fwelied, and feveral contufions on his neck, 
back, and arms. 

He was alfo beaten In a barbarous manner on the four- 
teenth and eighteenth days of the fame month, and for no 
other reafon than becaufe the captain was in a paffiori 
with others. 

The fecond perfon, and whofe cafe is nov/ to be con- 
fidered, v/as knocked down two or three times in a day, 
without any juft caufe. At one time in particular, when 
the captain came upon deck, and found that the people, 
who were then v/afhing the decks, had not moved the 
hen-coops as before, he immediately feized this perfon who 
was ftanding by, and having felled him down to the floor, 
ftamped upon his body as he was lying there. Then 
feizing him, with an intention as he fwore, of throwing 
him overboard, he dragged him to the ftern of the vefiel. 
The unhappy man, to fave himfelf, caught hold of the 
flern rails, by which he held fafl: till he was relieved by 
two of the fhlp's crew. In confequence of this treat- 
ment, he had feveral contufions on his breaft, back, and 
other parts of his body, and alfo a black eye, with a 
fwelied face, which deprived him of the fight of one of 
his eyes for about a fortnight. 

At another time, v/hen the fliip arrived In the Well 
Indies, he was beaten, without the commiilion of a fault, 
in an inhuman manner. The captain ftruck him here fo 
feverely over his face, as to occafion his mouth to bleed 



African Slave Trade. 



# 



for fome time. He kicked him afterwards over his 
bowels, and with luch violence, as to occafion him to fall 
down, when he jumped upon his breaft as before, and 
otherwife cruelly treated him. The unfortunate victim, 
when he went on fhore, complained to the magiftrate of 
the place, to whom the veffel being configned, he received 
no other fatisfaftion than his difcharge 5 though be carried 
with him his fhirt, ftained with the blood which had then 
ifTued from his wounds. He was accompanied, on his 
application to this magiftrate, by the perfon mentioned 
before him, who preferred his complaint likewife, and 
obtained — equal redrefs. 

It would be a tedious and a painful tafk to defcribe the 
treatment which every individual received on board this 
vefleL I fhali therefore fubmit to the reader but three 
more cafes for his perufal. 

The firft in the fourth bracket was a very fenfible old 
feaman, and formerly in his Majefty's fervice. He had 
had fome words on the forecaftle v/ith an officer, on ac- 
count of complaining that he had no water to drink. 
The officer told the captain of the feaman's behaviour, 
and of his infolence in complaining. The latter inftantly 
feized him, and beat out feveral of his teeth with his fill.- 
He then ordered a pump-bolt to be put into his mouth,, 
which was confined there by means of fome rope-yarn tied 
behind his head. The poor old m.an was almoft choaked, 
being unable to fpit out the great quantity of blood whicli 
was then running dov/n and collecting in his throat. 
He was then tied for tv/o hours to the rail of the quarter 
deck, as he had previoufly declared his intention of leaping 
overboard, to avoid the farther perfecution of his cppreffor. 
When the two hours were expired, he was ordered under 
the half deck, tied to the grating companion of the 
fteerage, and kept there all night with a centinel over 
him. In about a month afterwards he was feized with a 
fever, and died. 

The fecond, a lad of about feventeen years of age, was 
repeatedly knocked and kicked about, and otherwife cruelly 
treated by the fame perfon for imaginary faults. The faid 
lad had received from one of the other ofiicers a wound in 
his toe. The captain was fo far from favouring him in 

this 



42 Ok the Impolicy of tue 

this fituation, that he endeavoured to diftrefs him the 
more, and therefore compelled him to a6l as a centinel 
over the flaves ; an office, w^hich requires much v^^alking 
about. This cruel ufage foon produced a fever ; nor did 
he ever feel for his fituation at this time, for he obliged 
him to fit on the gratings during his illnefs, as a centinel 
over the room of the v/omen ilaves. 

Overpov^ered now by illnefs and fatigue, he fell alleep 
on the gratings. The captain coming on the quarter 
deck at the fame time, and finding him in the fituation 
defcribed, began, with oaths and imprecations^ to beat 
him in an unmerciful manner. The poor lad, kicked at 
length from the gratings, and terribly bruifed befides, 
crawled with much difficulty to the furgeon's mate. He' 
there complained, in the anguirh of his heart, of the bitter 
treatment he had received. He then folicited a little of 
the barley water, v/hich is ufually kept for the flaves ; but 
while he was drinking it, he fell dov/n at the feet of the 
furgeon's mate, and expired. 

The third, and laft whom I fhall mention, was a black 
feaman, who had fhipped himfelf in England as cook of 
the above vefTel. The captain feem.s to have fmgled out 
this unfortunate man, as an objeil; in v/hich all his different 
modes of perfecution were to centre. He knocked him 
down almoft daily, Ke flogged him repeatedly on his 
naked back with his ov/n hands, for fo much pieafure did 
he receive from the exercife of cruelty and oppreffion, that 
he became the executioner on thefe occafions. He put a 
large chain about his neck, at the end of which was 
faftened a log of wood. In this chain he compelled him 
to do his duty as cook of the veffel, beating him feverely 
in the interim, and kicking him about for his diverfion. 

At one time he ordered him to be tied up for no fault 
whatever, and he flogged him in fuch an unmerciful man- 
ner, that it was apprehended his arm would mortify, and 
nothing but the (kill and affiduity of the furgeon faved it 
at laft. 

At another time he was ordered by the captain into his 
cabin. The pretence wrs this, that he had not roafted 
the yams properly, (which is a luncheon at twelve o'clock). 
As foon as he entered the cabin door, the inhuman wretch 

for 



African Slave Trade, 4,3 

for his dlverfion darted a knife and fork at him. The 
poor man fled In confternation from the cabin. The 
captain purfued him, and, to complete his cruelty, fet his 
dog upon him as uilial. The animal immediately obeyed, 
tore off his frock, and bit him in feveral places. I mu(t 
add, that it was almoft the daily pra61:ice of this barbarian 
to fend for the above black feaman into his cabin, and to 
divert himfelf v^^ith darting at iiim the inftruments before 
mentioned, whenever he could get, what he termed, ^fair 
mark. 

At another time he darted at him an inflrument which 
was commonly ufed for ftriki ng fiih. It confifired of a 
large thick flick, with a quantity of lead at one end of it, 
and three or four prongs or javelins at the other. This 
inftrument was thrown at him with great force, and, 
unlefs be had fortunately ftooped, he m.uft have been 
killed, as it went juft over his head, and ftuck into the 
boards of the barricado of the veffel. The breaking of a 
plate was the grand crime that had been imputed to hira 
on this occafion. 

At another time he was flogged as before, and fo fe- 
verely, that he was cut from the neck to the fmail of the 
back in a fhocking manner. When the operation was 
over, the captain called for a bucket, in which he mixed 
pepper and fait water, and then anointed his back, with a 
view to increafe his pain. In iTiort, fo barbarous was his 
condu6l to this poor fellov/, that he became infenfible at 
laft, and, full of fears, and unable to v/aik upright, he 
frequently crawled in his chain, like a dog^ upon all fours 5 
the captain, by his ill ufage, having reduced him both in 
form and mind to a level with the brute creation. 

Thefe are fome of the inftances of cruelty, that were 
praftifed on the feamen of this vefTel. I find it impoiiible, 
for v/ant of time, to infert them all. I fliall therefore 
clofe my account here, and with this obfervation, that out 
of a crew, confifting of fifty-one perfons, thei-e were only 
three that efcaped the barbarity of this monfter in human 
fhape. 

The reader v/ill probably think, from the difmal hifirory 
now offered to his perufal, that I have at ieaft fingled out 
a fhip, where the treatment was more unfavourable than 



44 On the Impolicy of th# 

in any other in the fame line. But I pofltively deny any* 
charge that may be brought againll me in this particular. 
I can fpecify inftances of deliberate barbarity exercifed on 
the bodies of Britifh feamen in this trade, that exceed any 
I have yet defcribed ; and I afTert further, that out of the 
captains of twenty fhips, taken promifcuoully in it, I 
cannot find, upon a minute inveftigation, more than 
three, whatever may be their appearance at home, that 
are men of common humanity on their refpedive voyages. 
To thefe three individuals then, who, truHed with un- 
limited power, furrounded by bad example, and placed 
on the brink of vice from the very nature of the trade, 
to thefe, I fay, who, in this fituation have fwerved 
from the common pra6lice, I take this opportutunity of 
paying that juft tribute, which their behaviour deferves ; 
but I prefume, that they will derive more pleafure from' 
the peace and fatisfa6lion in their own breafts, than from 
any publick commendation. 

SECTION IV. 

Before I invefligate the argument adduced in the firil 
fe6lion, that I^Qjlave trade is a nurfery for our feamen^ I 
fhall anfwer two queilions which may be flarted here. 

The firjl may be delivered in the following terms. 
*' Are not the fame cruelties pra6lifed in other trades ?"— <- 
I make the following reply. 

A certain perfon, totally unconne£led with the law, had 
no lefs than fixty-three applications made to him in three 
months, to obtain redrefs for fuch feamen, as had ex- 
perienced the fury of the officers of their refpe61:ive ftiips. 
Upon examination of their different cafes, it appeared^ 
that one of them had been cruelly treated on board a 
Weft-Indiaman, and that another had been knocked down 
and feverely bruifed on board an Irifh trader. The re- 
Y£i'3Xmx\^fixty-one were vidims to the tyranny of the ofEcers 
before defcribed. 

The fixft cafe, that came to his knowledge, was that of 
an unfortunate perfon, who had been landed from a flave- 
vefTel in a fickly ftate but the preceding day. He had 
been repeatedly knocked down with the but- end of the 

cat. 



African Slave Trade, 45 

cat. His life had been rendered fo uncomfortaLIe, that 
he had made three efforts to leap overboard, and deftroy 
it. When he was taken up the laft time, he had juft 
been faved from the jaws of a fhark that had been makinp- 
after him. Tlie unfortunate man had been alfo repeatedly 
chained to the deck of the fhip, and in that fituation had 
been infulted and beaten by his opprefTor. When the 
application was made, he was in bed, and delirious. I 
fhall obferve here, that the reft of the fame crew had been 
treated in a barbarous manner. 

In the f^cond, feverai of the party prefent came to in- 
form of a murder that had been committed on the body 
of a Britifh feaman upon the coaft. 

A third feaman had had his arm broken without any 
provocation by the but end of a cat, an infcrument before 
defcribed. 

A fourth being ordered to catch hold of the main-top- 
fail brace, and miftaking it for the main-top-bowling, had 
been knocked down with a handfpike, and his arm broken 
in two places. 

A fifth received fuch treatment as the reader will hardly 
believe ; but I muft inform him that this, as well as moft 
cf the other tranfailions, is upon oath, and that his per- 
fecutor has acknov/ledged it by the payment of a fine. — 
This unfortunate man, for a fuppofed want of care in a 
moft trifling inftance, was ftripped naked, and chorded 
down with his belly upon the deck. The barbarian and 
tyrant of the fhip ftreaked his back, coolly and deliberate- 
ly, with the end of a poker that had been heated for the 
purpofe. I need not fay that the poor man was in the 
greateft agonies on the occafion. 

At another time, and on a like charge, while his wounds 
were yet frefti, a large lump of pitch v/as melted hot upon 
his back, and he was made to fuffer the moft- excruciating 
pain. 

A fixth was treated in the follov/ing manner, as col- 
lected from a depofition, made for the purpofe of corro- 
borating the fact 

A certain fhip was lying in the month of ^ and 

iri the river , on the coaft of Africa, for flaves. 

The captain had been on Ihore, but on the evening came 

on 



4^ On the Impolicy of the 

on board. On being informed of a circumftance, which 
a favourite had devifed to have happened in his abfence 
from the fhip, he called for a certain feaman. Without 
any kind of inquiry, and with that impetuofity and def- 
potifm, which mark the principal agents in this trade, he 
immediately knocked him down, tore his fhirt from his 
back with his own hands, and ordered him to be tied up 
for the purpofe of flogging him. 

When the poor innocent man was fufficiently fecured, 
the captain took up the cat, which was a rope of three 
inches and an half in circumference, with nine tails at 
one end of it, and a double walled knot of nearly eight 
inches in circumference at the other. He beat him 
alternately with each end, and frequently on the back 
part of the head with the knot defcribed. When his 
right hand was tired, he curfed it for being unable to 
perform its office compleatly, and had then recourfe to 
his left. 

Being too much wearied at length to continue the ope- 
ration to his own mind, he applied to an officer of the 
fhip, and ordered him to exert his ftrength, after the 
example given him, on the back of this innocent and un- 
offending man. The officer felt himfelf in a fituation to 
be obliged to comply with his commands, but ftruck him 
only with the tail end of the inftrument before defcribed. 

A fecond officer, being afterwards applied to for the 
fame purpofe, flogged him in the fame manner, till the 
tails of the cat were worn into flireds, and it became no 
longer an inftrument of pain. 

By this time the captain had refted himfelf fufficiently 
to renew the tafk. He pulled off his jacket, tucked up 
the lleeves of his fhirt, ordered another cat of the 
fame kind to be brought, and ufed it in the fame manner. 
To abbreviate this tale of woe, I fhall fay at once, that 
the punifliment, from the time of its commencement to 
the time of its difcontinuance, lafted for three hours. 

The unhappy m.an, unable to fuftain this accumulated 
perfecution, had feinted before the operation was over ; his 
head had hung on his fhoulder ; and, when he was taken 
down, he lay m^otionlefs on the deck. 

The 



African Slave Trade; 



47 



The barbarian of the Hilp, not yet fatisfied with his 
diabolical treatment of the unfortunate victim, ordered his 
hands and feet to be faftened together, his right hand to 
his left foot, and his left hand to his right. When this 
was done, a rope was made fail to the fhackled limbs, 
and, like a cafk, he was hoifted up from the deck. He 
was afterwards let down, by means of the fame rope, into 
a boat which was then lying by the fide of the veffel. In 
this boat, and in this confined fituation, he was left for 
the remainder of the night. 

About five o'clock on the next morning, a feaman, 
having found his way into the boat, came up again, and 
reported that the unfortunate man was dead. In confe- 
. quence of this, his body was brought up, and laid in the 
waift of the veiTel. Another, who was his meffinate, on 
coming up and feeing him there, had the curiofity to 
examine him. In feeling above his neck, three of his 
fingers found their way into a hole in the fkull, which he, 
one of the deponents, faid, had been made by the double 
v/alled knot of the cat before defcribed, and which had 
been applied to him there in a moft unmerciful man- 
ner. In withdrawing them from the wound, a o-reat 
quantity of blood iiTued out, and came profufely upon 
the deck. 

The tyrant of the fliip, when he rofe in the mornino-, 
and faw the body in its bleeding flate, exprelTed no emo- 
tions of pity or concern, but, in a rough and imperious 
tone, only ordered it to be buried. 

It may not be amifs to remark, that the unhappy viSiim 
had been in full health and vigour but the preceding night. 
He had been uncommonly cheerful, and had played on his 
flute juil before the tranfa6lion happened, while the reft of 
the feamen danced. In the morning, however, — he was 
no more. 

Thefe are fome additional inflances of the behaviour 
of the captains of Have vefTels to the unfortunate people, 
who compofe their refpedive crews. Shocking as they 
are, they will hardly give the reader an adequate idea of 
the various cruelties exercifed upon thofe, who embark in 
this trade. All on board is deliberate barbarity and op- 

preffion. 



4S On the Impolicy of the 

prelHon, An unfortunate failor cannot fpeak or complain, 
but it is an offence againft difcipline, and an offence, never 
to be forgiven ; while a Britifli admiral, the highefl cha- 
ra6ler on the globe, does not think it below his dignity to 
be folicitous for the happinefs of his people, or to attend 
to their complaints. The paltry captain of a flave veiTel, 
the mofl defpicable character upon earth, is the only 
human being who looks upon a Eritifh feaman as an infe- 
riour animal, and worthy of oppreffion and contempt. 

The other inflances are of a fimiiar nature to the firft 
four, but I fhould be as weary to communicate, as the 
reader to perufe them. If any perfon fhould confider 
thofe, that have been already mentioned, as fufficient to 
corroborate the cruel treatment fo generally infifted upon 
in this trade, I fhall have neither written nor have felt 
in vain. 

The fecond queftion, that may be flarted, is the fol- 
lowing : 

" If this be the real fituation of things, how happens 
^' it that the obje6ls of fuch tyranny and opprelTion fhould 
*' not obtain redrefs, and that our courts of law fnould 
" not have to decide upon more cafes of this kind, than 
" they have at prefent ? " 

I anfwer, becaufe thefe obje(^s are generally without 
friends and money, without which the injured will feek 
for juftice but in vain ; and becaufe the peculiarity of their 
fituation is an impediment to their endeavours for redrefs. 

But to be more. particular . — Where are thefe unfor^ 
tunate people to appeal ? 

'' In the Wefl-Indies," you will fay, where they firft 
land. But here one of the magiflrates is perhaps the 
perfon to whom the veffel is configned, and will not 
interfere. By another, when applied to, they are termed 
deferters^ and unworthy either of credit or relief. 

But let us follow them home to their deftined port. 
How are they to obtain redrefs, or to whom alfo are they 
to make their application here ? 

You will fay, " to a gentleman of the law." But this 
gentleman of the law has many flave merchants for his 
clients, and refufes to be employed, 

*' Let 



African Slave Trade. 



49 



^^ Let them apply then to anothcx^." But this other 
irefufes them from a different confideration. He reafons 
thus : " It will, perhaps, be a long while, on account of 
the forms of law, before the decifion can be made. Ths 
witnefTes muft be forth-coming at an appointed time. But 
who are they ? People, whofe dependence is upon they^^ ; 
who look up to it for their fupport ; who will not be a month 
on fhore before their wages will be gone, and before they 
muft get employment again. If they get into employ, 
they cannot appeari If they ftayj who is to fupport 
them ? " 

ThiS) and other confiderations, peculiar to the fituati- 
on and charader of feamenj have hindered many from 
taking up their caufe ; and have deprived them of that 
tedrefs, which the laws of every country ought to afford 
them as men j but particularly of this, v/hich is indebted 
to their invincible perfeverance and intrepidity for its 
prefent grandeur and fupport. 

This account, though made as concife as pofiible, (for 
I had a volume of fads to offer on this head) will, I have 
no doubt, give the reader a yet more horrid notion of this 
execrable trade. It is begun in iniquity ; it is continued 
in bafenefs : and whether we refer to the unhappy fiaves, 
or the unfortunate feamen employed in it ; in fhort, 
whether we view it at home or abroad, or confider the 
modes adopted in the pra6^ice of it, or its effects, it 
equally calls for the interpofition of the legiflaturCj being 
equally enormous and bafe* 



CHAP. V. 
SECTION I, 



I come now to the argument^ upon which fo great a 
ftrefs has been laid, that the Jlave trade h a nurfery for our 
Jeamen* 

The truth of this argument I deny in the moft explicit 

and unequivocal manner. I affert, on the other hand, 

that it is 2^gravs for our feamen, and that it deftroys more 

D in 



^Q On the Impolicy of the 

in one year, than all the other trades of Great Britain, when 
put together, deftroy in two. 

To fhew this in the cleareft manner, I fliall divide the 
lofs, which the ftate experiences in her feamen by the 
profecution of the flave trade, into three parts. The firft 
will contain fuch as are actually on the dead lift, while on 
pay, and in the fervice of their refpe^tive fhips. This 
lliall be immediately explained. The other two fhali be 
each of them canvafled in a diftlnct fe6i:ion. 

I am aware, that in attempting to afcertain the firft to the 
fatisfadlion of the reader, I muft avoid all general aflertlon, 
and produce many of thofe particular fa^ls^ which have 
induced me to fpeak with fo much confidence on the fub- 
je6l. I fhall therefore fubmit to his infpedlion an account 
of the lofs fuftained by the laft eighty-eight vefiels in this 
trade, that had returned to Liverpool from their refpeftive 
voyages in the September of the year 1787. I give him 
fo great a number for three reafons, firft, becaufe it in- 
cludes all vefi^els both great and fmail ; fecondly, becaufe 
it includes deftinations to all parts of the coaft; and, 
thirdly, becaufe it is from a number only^ that any infe- 
rence can be juftly drawn. 

Ships Names. Numher of Seamen * lojl in each» 



Sifters, 


- 


3 


Hornet, 


m. . 


15 


Molly, 

Fair American, 


- 


14 

10 


Lvon, 


- 


15 


Will, 


. 


17 


Telemachus, 


- 


8 


Peggy, 
Pedros Valley, 


- 


9 
3 


Doe, 


- 


3 


Matty and Betty, 
Gregfon, 


- <. 


3 

12 


* Under the term loll is i 


ncluded thofe that died, or were 


killed, or were drowned. Neither 


the captains, nor 


any of thofe fea- 


men that were taken in at the Weft Indies, are 


ineluded in the 


account. 




Bloom, 



African Slave Trade* 51 

^htps Names. Number of Seamen loft in each. 



Bloom, 


5 


William, 


8 


Brooks, 


9 


Vulture, 


5 


Enterprize, 


3 


Venus, « ^ » 


I 


Mermaid, 


6 


Chriftopher, 


8 


Thomas, - » - 


2 


Africa, - <- - 


2 


Little Joe, 


I 


Prefident, - - - 


8 


Mary Ann, - » - 


13 


Madam Pookata, 


3 


Hinde, - « - 


2 


Mary, - - » - 


6 


Brothers, 


4 


Chambers, 


7 


Vale, - . » « 


I 


John, - - » 


17 


Benfon, - - » 


3 


Mary, - » - 


3 


Gafcoyne, - » * 


13 


Bud, „ - - - 


5 


EfTex, - - - - 


8 


Elliott, - - - 


7 


KingPepple, - = - 


5 


Juba, - - - 


9 


Garland, 


13 


Mofsley Hill, 


8 


Mary, - -. - 


9 


Cato, - - - 


10 


Darnal, 


10 


Tarleton, 


5 


Africa, - - - 


19 


Quixote, 


4 


Hero, - - - 


8 


Rofe, - -. . - 


12 


James, - 


8 


' D 2 


Oronoqkoj 



52 On the Impolicy of the 

Ships Names, Number of teamen lojl in each. 



Oronooko, 


6 


Blaydes, - - ' 


17 


Kitty, 


5 


Tartar, =. ^ - 


15 


Golden Age,- 


II 


Fancy, _ - 


7 


Ally, ... - 


II 


Mungo> „ = 


2 


Jane, . , « - 


7 


George, ^ » » 


S 


Hornet, - « - 


13 


Sarah, - ^ ~ 





Venus, 


^ 


Mary, = - - 





Mary, „ - - 


5 


Jemmy, - - « , 


2 


Lord Stanley, 


5 


Madam Pookata, 


3 


Mercer, 


6 


Hannah, 


3 


Fanny, - - - 


^ 


Marv Ann, 


6 


Mofsley Hill, 


5 


Chambers, _ - - 





Will, - - - - 


5 


Vulture, - - - 


16 


Crefcentj - - 





Colonel, 


7 


Gregfon, - - 


6 


Little Joe, » - - 


4 


Favourite, 


15 


Peggy, 


3 


Maria, - - 


24 


Enterprize, 


5 


Heart of Oak, 


i 


Bloom, 


9 


Ingram, 


15 


Total lofl: 


631 


Employed 


3082 



The 



African Slave Traded 53 

The reader will fee, by cafting his eye on the preceding 
lift, that the jlave trade cannot pojjtbly be a nurpry for our 
feamen^ for it clearly appears from thence, that if we refer 
the eftimate to the number of Jinps^ every veflel, that fails 
from the port of Liverpool in this trade lofes more than 
feven of her crew, and that if we refer it to the nwmber 
of fe amen employed, more than 2i fifth perifh. 

This has been the invariable proportion for the port of 
Liverpool for many years ; — and I fhould have ftated it 
to the reader v/ithout the preceding lift, but that I thought 
it would be more :fatisfa6!:ory to him to fee at leaft a par£ 
.of the foundation, on which it had been raifed. 

The other ports alfo have had, in confequence of the 
fame kind of inveftigation, their different proportions of 
lofs affigned them, which are fo accurate, that if applied 
;to any number of fliips taken promifcuoufly, and exceed- 
ing twenty, they will be found to anfwer on almoft every 
occafion. Thefe, with the former, I fhall now ftate 
•without referve. 

Firft : Every veffel that fails from the port of Liverpoofl 
to the coaft of Africa, lofes on an average more than feven 
■;Of her crew, or a fifth of the whole number employed. 

Secondly : Every veflel from the port of Briftol lofes 
on an average nearly nine, or almoft a fourth of the whole 
crew. 

Thirdly : Every veffel from the port of London lofes 
more than eight, and between a fourth and a fifth of the 
whole complement of her men. 

By thefe ftatements it will appear, that if we compound 
the lofs at the different ports of this kingdom, which are 
ufed for the profecution of the flave trade, every veffel 
may be faid to lofe more than eight of her crew ; and if 
we refer the lofs to the number -employed, hrtween a fourth 
and a fifth may be faid to perifh. To thefe obfervations 
I fhall only add, that in the year 1786, eleven hundred 
and ttuenty-five feamen will be found upon the dead Jijf^ 
In confequence of this execrable trade? 



D 3 SECTION IL 



54 On the Impolicy of the 



SECTION II. 

Thefecond part of the lofs, mentioned in the preceding 
feftion, is now to be confidered. It will be found to con- 
tain fuch, as are annually diffipated in the Wefi-Inaies after 
their difcharge from their refpeftive fhips ; and of whom, 
from this period, the mufter rolls give no farther 
account. 

Some of the flave vefTels, which arrive in the Wefl- 
Indies, have perhaps experienced but little mortality in 
their crews. It is clear, in this cafe, that many of the 
feamen on board hQcovii& fupernmnerary for the remainder 
of the voyage. 

Others again bring them in, in fo v/eak and impaired a 
Hate, that they are confidered as incapable of navigating 
the veffels hom.e. 

Thefe circumftances therefore occafion many of them to 
be difcharged there. The Tick are fometimes forced on fhore 
in the night previous to the departure of the velTel home, 
and are left to ihift for themfelves, though the very a6l of 
difcharging them in the colonies, even in a reputable way, is 
contrary to law : while others are fo tired of the voyage, {o 
difgufted at the treatment which they have received, and 
fo much in want of reft and comfort, that they chufe 
rather to forfeit the whole of their wages, and defert, than 
to return home in the fame fhip. 

It appears then, that many of the feamen, for the rea- 
fons given, have left, or have been obliged to leave, their 
refpe£live veffels, either on the arrival of thefe in the Weft- 
Indies, or before their departure home. It will be now 
proper to follow them, and to fee their fate. 

Some of thefe, as opportunity offers, make application 
to fuch ftiips, either employed in this or another line, as 
are returning to England, and procure a birth. But the 
demand being not equal to the employment of more than 
half of thofe who are fet adrift, a confiderable number are 
annually left behind. Among thefe then, the refidue 
that are unemployed, is to be traced the fecond part 
of the lofs, which I mentioned to have originated in the 
profecution of the trade. 

To 



African Slave Trade. $$ 

To attempt to afcertain It, (which I prefume will be 
BO difficult tafk) I Ihall confine myfelf to one particular 
year. 

In 



the year 1786 were employed in the 7 g 

Slave trade, in round numbers j -^ 

Of this number came home with the vefTels 2320 
Upon the dead lift were - 1 1 30 

pifcharged in Africa, and not accounted 7 o 

for by other veflels - 3 

Difcharged and deferted in the Weft- % 

Indies - - ^ j 47 



eamen. 



5000 

place of thofe difcharged | 
or deferted 



Taken up In the place of thofe difcharged 7 /- 



It will be now no diiHcult matter to afcertain the point 
in queftion. It has been juft ftated, that fowtcen hundred 
and feve-iity feamen were put adrift in the colonies in the 
year 1786, and that only *y£v hundred and ten were taken 
up in their ftead. It remains therefore only to inquire of 
whom this body confifted, that were thus taken up in the 
year 1786, as fubftitutes for thofe, who v/ere fet adrift 
within the fame period. 

* To fliew that this trade Is perfe£lly fyflematick and produ£live of the 
f^me effedis, I iliall fubjoin the ilate of four or five lots of fhips, taken 
prornifcuoufly for the purpofe. 

Discharged or deferted in tbelVeJl-Lidlcs^^ Taken tip in their Jlead* 

In 24 fliips In the Slave-trade 334 340 

In 24 others - aii 2.8 

In 24 others - 209 86 

In 24 others - 205 73 

In 16 others - 155 72 

1114 459 

The reader will fee from hence, that there is a continual difgorge- 
snent of feamen from thefe velfels into the iflands, and not a drawback 
of one-half by the fame, 

D 4 Let 



5& On the Impolicy of the 

Let us fuppofe firft, that thefe fix hundred and ten fub^ 
ftitutes were all of them Guinea fcamen. Then it is 
clear, that each of the flave vefTels, which arrived laft in 
the colonies, mufl have taken up a part of thofe which 
the preceding had left behind 5 that thofe, who were thus 
taken up, muft have been a part of the fame that were 
difcharged ; and that eiiht hundred and fixiy remain to be 
accounted for in that year. 

Let us fuppofe fecondly, that they were We/I- India 
feamen^ who ran from their refpeftive (hips, and that none 
of the fourteen hundred and feventy were taken up by the 
flave' vefTels in the o;iven time. Then it is clear, that the 
Weft-Indiamen muft have wanted an equal number of 
hands to fupply the places of thofe that had left them. 
For this fupply fet off an equal number taken from the 
fourteen hundred and feventy before mentioned. This 
will be only changing hands, and the balance will remain 
ae befcre. 

Let us fuppofe thirdly, (which is the real cafe) that they 
confifted of both, that is, that a part of the fubftitutes 
were taken from the Weflr-Indiamen, and the remaining 
part from the flave veffels. Then it is equally evident, 
that the refult will be the fame. So that, in whatever 
point of view v/e confider the cafe, it will appear, that 
only fix hundred and ten feamen out of the whole number 
deferting or difcharged have yet found their way out of 
the colonies, and of courfe, that eight hundred and ftxty 
yet remain to be accounted for in the expenditure of the 
year 1786. 

This being the cafe, I muft now inquire what became 
of the latter, for they compofe a number too ferious to be 
pafled over without a rigid inveftigation. 

It v/ill be faid, that they came home in the Weft-India- 
men, But I reply, that the Weft-Indiamen have already 
received a fufticient number to replace thofe of their own 
feamen, who were taken up by the Have veftels in that 
year, and that the balance is ftill the fame. If there- 
fore any were wanted by the former veffels, it could be 
only to fupply the places of fuch as died, or v/ere loft on 
board them. 

This 



African Slave Trade. 



57 



This lof?, on a fuppofition that fix hundred fail of 
VefTels were employed in the Weft-Indies from Great 
Britain in the year 1786, was not more than that of one 
hundred andfixty feamen, fo th2itfevtn hundred (admittino- 
the lofs to have been fo fuppUed) muft have been ftill left 
in the colonies. 

It will be now faid, that the remainder went into the 
King's fervice. Shall I referve two hundred of them for 
this purpofe, a much greater number than were ever wanted 
annually as recruits in the time of peace ? What became of 
the reft, iox five hundred ftiil remain to be accounted for. 

The truth is, that they were loft for ever to the ftate^ 
and that this number will ftill continue to be annually loft, 
fo long as the trade is profecuted to its prefent extent. 

In the follov/ing pi6^ure may be feen the fate of the 
unemployed remains of thofe, who are thus annually fet 
adrift in the colonies. 

Some of thefe, in an infirm and debilitated ftate of 
health, (the reafons of vmich will be given in a future 
chapter) and X2i\kitr JldaJvOzvs in their appearance than men^ 
are foon carried to the hofpitals, and die there. 

Others, to forget their fuiferings, and to have a little 
relaxation after the hardftiips and feverities they have 
experienced, indulge themfelves on fhore. They drink new 
rum. Their habit of body is unable to bear it, and they 
fall vi6i:ims, I will not fay to their intemperance, but to 
the nature of the trade, v/hich has brought them firft into 
a debilitated ftate, and has then put them adrift to eff^ect 
their own cure. Thefe are feen in the ftreets * dying 
daily in an idcerated ftate, obje61:s both of commiferation 
^nd horror. Their fituation immediately points them out 
as the remains of the crev/ of a flave veftei : but they fall 
without pity, without friends, without a look but of con- 
tempt from the hardened multitude that paftes by. 

Others, without friends, and without money, wander 
about in the different iflands, and beo; from door to door, 
till overpowered by heat, hunger, and fatigue, they fall 
equally unpitied, and fnare the fate of their former 
friends. 

* Particularly in Jamaica* 

Others, 



$^ On the Impolicy of the 

Others, upon feeing all thefe calamities, and addi- 
tionally fo hurt on account of the brutal feverlties exercifed 
upon them, and the want of prote6tion and redrefs, de- 
termine to embark for America, there to fpend the re- 
mainder of their days : and fo invincible has been th© 
refolution of many of them in this refpeft, that, deflitute 
of money, they have fuffered themfelves to die with hun- 
ger, fooner than embark in any fiiip that belonged to their 
own country. 

In thefe different ways are many of the brave but unfor- 
tunate feamen, who are put adrift in the colonies from the 
vefTels before defcribed, loft additiorially to the ftate, and 
in fuch a proportion, that not lefs than five hundred 
annually, in the time of the * peace eftablifhment, or 
about four to every vefTel, may be added, as loft in the 
Weft- Indies^ to t-hofe upon the dead lift, that are martyrs 
to this inhuman trade. 



SECTION in. 

I come now to the third part of the lofs, which the 
Hate experiences. This may be traced in fuch of the 
feamen as, having left the colonies either in theii* own or 
in other iliips, have returned home. 

Some of thefe, and not an inconfiderable number, when 
we viev/ them as feamen, go blind in confequence of the 
voyage, and become in future for ever dead as naval fubn 
jeAs to the ftate. 

Others, worn out and landed from the ftiips in a weak 
and emaciated condition, are carried to the infirmaries, 
and die there. 

Others, labouring under the fcurvy, rheumatifm, and a 
complication of diforders, contra6led from the very nature 
of the voyage, become incurable. Their whole habit is 
io broken down and relaxed, that oedematous fwellings are 
the confequence in their legs, and they are cut off from 
all chance or poflibility of purfuing a naval life. Others, 
that have been maimed or ill treated, are in the fame 

* The peace eftabllfliment In this trade confiils of about one hundred 
and thirty velTels. 

fituatioii. 



Afkican Slave Trade/ 59 

fituation. While others again, difgufted at the barbarous 
treatment exercifed upon them, and perhaps in their firft 
voyages, become difheartened, relinquifh the fea, and be- 
take themfelves to thofe occupations which they left, or of 
which they have moft knowledge. 

Thefe are the different ways in which the third part 
of the lofs is occafioned ; and if we include thofe who 
become blind, and die in the infirmaries, and are 
rendered by ill treatment and a complication of difor- 
ders incapable of purfuing the fea, and who relinquifh it 
from difgufl, it will be a very moderate ilatement to fay, 
(at leafl as far as my inquiries have yet reached) that three 
naval fubje6ls are additiotially loft to the ftate by every 
vefTel, even out of thofe who return home, 

Thefe obfervations being put together, and the whole 
lofs, including thofe that were upon the dead lift, and 
thofe that were loft in the colonies, and thofe that died 
and were rendered unferviceable at home, being eftimated, 
it cannot be ftated, that lefs thznffieen feamen in every 
vefFel, or yi'meteen hundred and jifty out of the whole 
number employed, were loft to the fervice of this country 
by the profecution of the ilave trade in the year * 1786. 



SECTION IV. 

Having nov/ ftate4 the a5iual lofs, v/nich the velTels 
experience in this trade, I come to the comparative ; for I 
have faid that the flave trade v/as not only a grave for our 
feamen, but that it deftroyed more in one year than all the 
other trades of Great Britain, when put together, deftroy 
in tzvo. 

For this purpofe, I fball exhibit the lofs fuftained in 
feveral trades, confining myfelf to a certain number of 
vefTe.s taken promJrcuoufly in each. 



* The lofs, flated in the year 1786, will be nearly applicable to that of 
tlieyear 1787, or any oiher year of what may be called the peace eflab- 
lifhment in this trade} for in any fuch years, nearly the fame number 
will be found on the dead lift j the fame nnmber difcharged in the 
colonies; the fame number taken up in their places 3 and the fame 
number dead, and rendered unferviceable at home 3 — {q lyllematick (as I 
obferved in a former note) is this trade. 

An 



6o Oi^ THE Impolicy of the 



An Account of the LOSS fuflained in Twenty-four 
Slave VelTels from th^ Port of Bristol. 



Shhs Names^ 


Numher of St 


Africa 


7 


Pearl 


20 


Jupiter 


11 


Heaor 


8 


Emilia 


8 


Conftantine 


II 


Alfred 


6 


Jupiter 


14 


Sally 


7 


Wafp 


- - ^ 


Little Hornet 


6 


Royal Charlotte 


14 


Trpl 


6 


Lmilia 


9 


Alexander 


9 


Little Pearl 


5 


Mermaid 


2 


Wafp 


6 


Brothers 


32 


Thomas 


8 


Emilia 


3 


Alert 


4 


Royal Charlotte 


- 2 


Alexander 


15 



216 



An: 



African Slave Trade. 63 



An Account of the LOSS faftained in Twenty-four 

East-Indiamen-» 



Ships Names, Number of Seamen hjl* 

Manfhip^ « - ^ 

William Pitt - ^ 13 

Duke of Montrofe - 10 

Earl Cornwailis. - 4 

Phcenix - - ■ 23 

Northumberlaad - 6 

Eanger - „ r 

Southampton - ~ S 

Chapman - - 4. 

Kent - „ 12 

Stormont - .- g> 

Royal Charlotte - 9 

Contractor « « 5 

Bridge water - , - 2 

Neptune. -. - 6 

Vanfittart , » -. 7 

EarlTalbot - - 20 

Valentine - - - % 

Lord Nortk - - 3 

Ganges - - 13 

Sulivan - - 7 

Carnatic » - 2 



3 



Pitt 

Berrington ^ - iq 

201 



An 



62 On the Impolicy of the 



An Account of the LOSS fuftained in Twenty-four 
West-Indiamen. 

Ships Names. Number of Seamen loft» 



Good Hope 


- 


o 


Exeter 


- 


o 


Venus 


^ 


o 


Charles 


« 





Juno 


» 





Colin 


- 


o 


Albion 


„ 


o 


Mercury 


^ 





St. Thomas 


«- 


o 


Druid 


„ 


3 


Induftry 


^ 


o 


Apollo 


^ 


o 


Saville 


" 


o 


Fanny 


- 


o 


Jarrett 


- 





Lord North 


- 


o 


Triton 


- 


I 


Fame 


- 


o 


Union Hand * 


- . 


o 


Mercury 


- 





Generous Planter 


- 


I 


Difpatch 


" 


I 


Salter 


« 





Pilgrim 


'"- 


o 



M 



African Slave Trade. 63 



An Account of the LO S S fuflained in Twenty-four 
VeiTels in the Peter sburgh Trade. 

Ships Names, Number of Seamm loft, 

Exeter _ , q 

Nancy - « o 

Three Sifters - « „ O 

Jofeph _ ^ O 

Exeter - - - o 

Baltick Merchant « - o 

Three Sifters » =, o 

Three Sifters » « O 

Polly - » - - o 

Sally - - » „ o 

Three Sifters » » - o 

Polly - - - o 

Three Sifters - - o 

Monmouth - - O 

Baltick Merchant - o 

Monmouth - . q 

Baltick Merchant - i 

Monmouth - - o 

Sally - - - - o 

Baltick Merchant ~ - i 

Sally - - - - o 

Monmouth - .. « q 

Sally - - » O 

Monmouth - • o 



* The Peterlburg trade, at Briflol, \vhere I coHeared fome of my 
papers, being fmall, 1 have b'.;en obliged to take the fame fhip for thres 



or four vovages. 



All 



64 O^ '^^^ Impolicy of the 

An Account of the L O S S fuflalned In Twenty-four 
veflels in the Newfoundland Trade. 

Ships Names, Number of Seamen lojl. 



Surprife 


o 


Somerfet 


o 


Catherine 


o 


Jenny - - - 


o 


Little Robert . , - 


o 


Unity - « - 


o 


Kancy - - - 


I 


Briftol Packet - - . 


o 


Friends 


o 


Ripley -^ , " 


o 


Harbourgrace Packet 


o 


A6live _ - ^ - 


o 


Ann - - - 


o 


Mermaid - - - 


o 


Surprife - - 


I 


Brothers 


o 


Fly » " - 


o 


Catherine 


o 


Betfey - - - - 


o 


Friendfhip 


o 


Jenny 


o 


"Nancy 


o 


Sally - - - - 


o 


Nancy « . -. - 


o 



Alt 



At'RICAN Si.AVE TrAD^. 65 

Ah Account of the LOSS fuftained in Twenty-four 
Greenlandmen. 

Shipi Names* Number of Seamen lofli 



William and Johri 





Lyon 
Betty 






Peggy 





Lyon 

Philippa 

William 


2 




Sarah 





Leviathan 





Pilgrim -• 





John 
Grampus 
Golden Lyon 





d 


Brilliant 


i 


James 





Anfdell 





Whale 





Margaret 


I 


Peggy 
Argus 







Betty 





Swan - - 


6 


Fifher 


i 


Seaeome 






g Tq 



66 On the Impolicy of the 



To recapitulate, the account will ftand thus r 

In twenty-four Slave veflels 216 

Eaft-Indian 201 

— Weft-Indian 6 

' — — Greenland 5 

— Peterfburg 2 

— Newfoundland 2 



But this ftatement, though it exhibits the lofs fuftained 
in an equal number of veflels in different trades, does not 
yet give us that juft comparative view, which the cafe 
requires. Some of thefe were confiderably longer on their 
voyage, and carried a much greater number of men, than 
others. Thefe two circumftances, therefore, are to be 
reduced to an equilibrium. We muft put an equal num- 
ber of hands into the different trades. We muft make 
them ferve for an equal time ; and the lofs, which 
each would experience under thefe circumftances, will be 
the true comparative lofs. 

I will not trouble the reader to follow me through the 
procefs of thefe calculations. I fhall therefore inform 
him immediately, that in raifmg the time and number in 
fome, and reducing them in others, to a juft equilibrium, 
the account will ftand thus : 



200 



In 910 feamen employed in the Briftol ilave-vefl^ls 7 
for one year, will be loft more than J 

In 910 ■ — in Eaft-Indiamen 

In 910 ' in Weft-Indiamen 

In 910 — in the Peterfburg trade 10 S- Sj 

In 910 ■■ — — in the Newfoundland trade 

In 910 «».=.=.=»™ in the Greenland trade 

Having 




African Slave Trade. 67 

Having now furnifhed a comparative viev7 of the lofs 
tuftained in fome of the trades that are carried on by the 
fubje£ts of this country, I will venture to affert, that if 
we except the Have trade, all the reft of them put together 
did not dillipate more than 7iine hundred feamen in the 
year 1786. In the fame year were deftroyed by the (lave 
trade nineteen hundred and fifty. So that the truth of my 
former affertion, " that this iniquitous trade deftroys 
" more^ in one year^ than all the other trades of Great 
'' Britain, when put together, deftroy in two^'' will but 
too manifeilly appear. 

The account, which I have novv giv&n, including many 
particular facts, will, I doubt not, have fufficient weight 
with the difinterefted Britidi reader to overturn the 
argument, v/hieh has never been infilled upon but in 
general terms, that the ftave trade is a nurfiry for our 
feafnen. The reverfe, I apprehend, will ftrike him in a 
very forcible light ; and, if I do not anticipate too haftily, 
cannot but be produ6live of pain. That every fhip, fo 
occupied and employed, ihould be attended with fuch a 
lofs as has been fpeciiied, is a circumftance, fo melancholy 
in itfelf, and fo fatal in its confequences, that it muft fill 
him with alarm and horror, and he will wait with painful 
anxiety for the fuppreffion of a trade^ which fo manifeilly 
tends to wound his country in its vital parts. In vain will 
its advocates plead with him, that the chain of com- 
merce will be broken, or that a part of the mercantile 
fabrick of the nation will be thrown down. Let them 
remember, that it has been raifed at the expence of the 
pillars of the ftate ; and that 713 emolujnent whatever^ zvhich 
indi%)iduah can obtain from the trade ^ can ever he thought a 
fufficient compefifation for fo great and Jo natio77al a lofs. 



E 7. CHAP. vr. 



68 On the Impolicy of the 



CHAP. VI. 

I muft now inquire, whether the trade in the natural 

productions of the country would be equally detrimental 

to the fti^fete ; for it will immediately be alleged, that the 

veflels, in which it is to be conducted, mult go to the 

' (ame coaJf» 

I fhall anfwer this objeClion in the moll explicit man- 
ner, by endeavouring to prove, that if the fame Ihips and" 
men were to go into the trade propofedy they would not 
experience an equal lofs. 

This I fhall attempt to demonllrate by recurring to the 
caufes of the lofs defcribed,, and by (hewing thefe caufes 
to be chiefly peculiar to the trade in Haves, or fuch as 
would ceafe to exift, were the trade aboUJked, 

The firlt will be found upon the coalt. 

On the windv/ard coaft a confiderable part of the cargo^ 
of Haves is procured by open boats. Thefe boats are 
continually beating about, and watching the fignals made 
upon the fhore. They proceed to the diftance of twenty 
or thirty leagues, and are often abfent for three weeks 
from the fhip. During this time, they are expofed to the 
inclemency of the weather, night and day, which becomes 
frequently the occafion of their death. Some of thefe 
boats are upfet, and the feamen Ioft» 

Others go up the rivers, and are abfent for an equal 
time. The days are exceilively hot, and the dews are 
exceflively cold and heavy. Thofe, who are fent upon 
this fervice, are confidered as |devoted. Some never 
return with the boats. The refl: come on board, and 
often die. 

This mortality Is to be attributed to two caules ; partly 
to the uncertainty of the trade, which makes the long and 
conlfant ufe of thefe boats fo necellary ; and partly to the 
climate. 

In the trade propofed, no fuch uncertainty would be 
found. The feafons for the different crops, (not like the 
feafons for human flelh) would be periodical and regular. 
Store-houfes would be built at convenient places. The 

natives 



African Slave Trade* 69 

natives up the river would bring down their produce in 
their canoes. The ufe of open boats would in this refpecSi: 
be precluded, and one of the caufes of the prefent lofs 
would be removed. 

With refpe6l to the climate, it requires but little know- 
ledge or experience to fay, that it may be fubje6led to 
human art. Other countries, now civilized were for- 
merly inhofpitable to ftrangers, but have become habita- 
■ble by all. Such would be the cafe with the regions of 
Africa in the new intercourfe pointed out. For if the 
country, which is now a foreft, were cleared ; if the 
lands were put into cultivation, if the fwamps were 
drained, and fuch other events v/ere to take place, as 
would be the certain effects of eftablifhing the trade 
propofed, the caufes of this mortality to ftrangers would 
gradually decreafe, the dews would be moderated, the rains 
.and tornadoes become lefs frequent and violent, and the 
climate be as healthy as any other in any region of the 
globe. 

Other caufes of the lofs, which the ftate expe- 
diences in her feamen by the profecution of the trade, 
will be found both upon the coaft and on the middle 
pafTage. 

The iirft of thefe may be traced in infurre6lions5 in 
confequence of which feveral of them have loft their lives. 

The fecond in the communication of thofs diforders, 
with which the flaves are attacked. Among thefe is prin- 
cipally the flux, which is contagious, and which feveral 
of the feamen, who are pften obliged to be among them, 
cannot poffibly efcape. 

The above two caufes, it is evident, could have no 
exiftence in the trade propofed, as the commodities, which 
the veffels v/ould then carry, could neither rife up againft, 
nor fpread an infection among their crews, 

A third may be found in that barbarous and oppref- 
five treatment, which has been defcribed. This treatment 
occafions the death of fome, and renders others incapable 
of purfuing the fame line of life on their return home. 
This caufe would immediately be removed, as it is peculiar, 
and wholly to be attributed to the nature of this execrable 
E 3 ^ trade. 



70 On the Impolicy of the 

trade. It is a fa(^, that men have embarked in it wha 
have been confidered as men of humanity, and that the 
fame people in a httle time have been totally altered, and 
(iiftinguifhed by the appellation of brutes. Nor is the 
change vi?onderfuL The unbounded power, which the 
captains of Have velTels poifefs, could be exercifed but 
by few with propriety, anci is in general too much for the 
human mind to bear, without degenerating into tyranny 
and oppreffion. The fcenes too, which they muft con- 
ftantly be accuftomed to behold, harden the heart, rob it 
of its finer feelings, and at length create a ferocity that, 
accompanied with the other effeds, renders them rather 
monfters than men. 

The fourth is to be traced in bad living. The crews 
of thefe veflels have not only to ftruggle v/ith the difad- 
vantages defcribed, but additionally with thofe of hunger 
and thirft, which render them emaciated and weak, and 
confpire, with other caufes, to pull them down, and to 
fubdue them. They are in general half Jiarved^ and are 
often reduced to the neceffity of begging their vi6tuals of 
the flaves. 1 he latter, with a generofity and commifera- 
tion, that muft ever be the fevereft cenfure on their 
enilavers, convey to them privately through the gratings 
the folicited relief. 

Water too, in a quantity fufficient to fatisfy their thirfl-, 
is fcarcely to be obtained, A gun -barrel is carried to the 
topmaft head, aud fufpended there. The failor, who wants 
to drink, is obliged to fetch it down. He then puts it 
into a call of water, and applying his mouth to the 
muzzle, fucks the liquid up. When he has done with it, 
he carries it to its former place. Many, who are fick and 
infirm, go without their water, or fufFer as long as they 
can, fooner than attempt to fetch the inftrument for ob-. 
taining it in their feeble ftate. 

This prohibition of a fufficient quantity of water and 
provifions, the want of which greatly impoverifhes their 
blood, and renders them more fufceptible of impreflion 
from the various caufes of difeafe, is wholly to be afcribed 
to the nature of the trade : for the time which a veflel 
may ftay upon the coaft, or be upon the middle paiTage, 

is 



African Slave Trade, 



7* 



is fo uncertain^ and the number on board to be dally fup- 
ported fo great^ that the officers are under the neceffity of 
a6i:ing with the parfimony defcribed. 

The fifth originates in the following manner : When 
the flaves are brought on board, the feamen, to make 
room for them, are turned out of their apartments between 
the decks. During their ftay in the rivers, a place of 
retreat is made for them, but this, on their departure from 
the eoafi:, is obliged to be taken down. From this period 
they eith-er fleep on the open deck, or in the tops of the 
velTel. In fome vefTels they are permitted to fleep in the 
boat, whichis fufpended under thebooms, with a tarpawling 
over them ufually full of holes. But in general they are left 
deftitute of a covering, and are expofed through the whole 
of the middle pafTage to all the inclemency of the weather. 
If it rains, they muft unavoidably be wet, and in that 
condition they mull unavoidably continue, as they have 
no place of fhelter, in v/hich they can put their heads* 
From this bad lodging, and this continual expofure to 
colds and damps, and fuddenly afterwards to a burning 
fun, fevers originate, which carry many of them oiF; and 
as to fome of thofe who furvive, fuch confirmed rheuma- 
tifms are the confequence, as to render them afterwards 
burthenfome to themfelves, and unferviceable to the 
ftate. 

Nor is this the only efFe6l, which this continual vicif- 
fitude from heat to extreme dampnefs and cold, has upon 
fome of the furviving crew. Inflammatory fevers, as I 
obferved before, neceflariiy attack them. Thefe fevers 
afFe£l the whole frame. The eye, from the tendernefs 
and delicacy of its texture, and its fufceptibility beyond 
that of any other organ, feels the inflammation moflr. 
This inflammation terminates either in difperfion or fup- 
puration. In the firft inftance, the eyes are faved. In 
the latter, they are loft. Thus many of thofe who fur- 
vive, though they afterwards regain their health, are ren- 
dered incapable, in confequence of the lofs of their fight, 
of purfuing a naval life. This caufe, as produ6tive of 
the two different effecfls now mentioned, is to be found 
©nly in the trade in flaves. 

E 4 The 



72 On the Impolicy of the 

The fixth, and laft which I fliall mention, is the great 
length of time in which they are made to live upon fait 
provifions without any intermiflion, indulgencies being 
feldom or ever given them, as in other trades. The 
reafon of fuch a niggardly conducSl in their employers is 
this, that the flave trade is fo much more hazardous than 
the reft, that every pitiful faving muft be rnade. Thefe 
fait provifions, that are equally adminiftered to them iri 
health or ficknefs, vitiate the juices. Every fear, that is 
accidentally raifed upon their flefh, becomes an ulcer. 
Thefe ulcers are hardly ever to be cured ; and fo afFecSled 
have been the bones of many of them with thefe fcorbu- 
tick diforders, that a probe has been put through them 
with eafe ; and fo thin their blood, that it has difcharged 
itfelf at the ulcerated places. In this unhappy ftate, many 
of them, as I have obferved before, are difcharged in the 
"Weil Indies, and die there, while fome of thofe, who are 
fo fortunate as to get home, become incurable. 

It is clear, that if the trade propofed were eftabliflied, 
this caufe would be imm.ediately removed. The whole 
length of the voyage would be only five months. Frefti 
provifions could be afforded them on the coaft : and if a 
feaman fell fick, he would foon be carried to fea, (not as 
in a fiave veffel, to encounter with new and fatal diforders 
on the middle palTage) but in a wholefome fhip, foon tq 
experience the effeds of his native air. 

From the fcurvy then, as arifing from hence, and from 
the flux, rheumatifm, and other complaints, as arifing 
from the caufes affigned, fuch a complication of diforders 
is fixed upon fome of thofe that return, that it is a doubt 
whether the flave trade does not even render more unfer- 
viceable, than it deflroys : and a perfon need only fee the 
crews of the flave vefTels land, and trace them to their 
jefpe(5tlve homes, or vifit the infirmaries of the place, tq 
be convinced of the melancholy truth of this afTertion. 

Thefe being caufes then, which are chiefly peculiar tq 
the flave trade, or fuch as would be removed by its aboli- 
tion, it is clear, that any vefTels, going to the fame coaft 
for difFerent commodities, could not pofTibly be liable to 
an equal lofs. As a proof of this, (for in a cafe where 

fuch 



African Slave Trade. ^^ 

fuch oppofition may be expecSlied, I will not even hazard a 
juft inference where a proof can be obtained) I fhall fub- 
mit to the infpeftion of the reader the foUovi^ing lift of ten 
wood veflels, taken promifcuoufly, as they returned home 
to the fame port, from the year 1781 to the Auguft of the 
year 1787. 



^hips Names, Number of Men, 


Number of Men lojf, 


Tryal 

Lively 
Rebecca 


12 
20 
20 


2 
2 

7 


Lyon 
Rebecca 


28 
16 



2 


Cleveland 


8 


2 


African Queen 


1 


2 


St. Andrev7 





Cleveland 


8 





^eaor 


20 


. 3 




164. 


20 



It is manifeft from hence, that as feveral of the caufes 
have been taken away, fo feveral of the effects have been 
removed. The lofs in the flave veflels from the fame 
port is nearly a fourth of the whole number employed. 
The lofs in thefe is not quite an eighth. In nine hundred 
and ten feamen, employed in the former, * two hundred 
and fixteen v/ere among the dead. In nine hundred and 
ten, if employed in the latter, only one hundred and ten 
would have perifhed. 

But there are two or three obfervations, which I muft 
yet make. The Have veflels were upon an average 
icarcely feven months upon the coaft. The wood vefl^els 
were from five to fifteen, or on an average nearly ten. 
The latter circumftance is of great importance, for if the 
trade alluded to were eftablifhed, no veflel would have any 
neceflity to be longer at the moft than three : and it furely 
makes a confiderable difference, whether men, as in the 

* This is the numher a£lua!ly on the dead lift, but It does not include 
the maimed, the blind, the unferviceable, or fuch as died after their dif- 
charge in the Weft-Indies or Great Britaijj, in confec^uence of the trade. 

prefent 



fjA, On the Impolicy of the 



/*r 



prefent cafe, are expofed to an unhealthy climate for ten 
months v/lthout intermiffion, or whether, being employed 
in the ntvr trade, which would be regular, for the fame 
period, they would go there and back twice in the time, 
and have two different intervals of refreihment on their 
native fliore. 

I muft obferve too, that the crews of the latter, on 
account of the prefent uncertainty of the trade in the na- 
tural productions of the country were obliged to be up 
and dov/n the rivers, to be much expofed, and to partake 
of one of the caufes of the lofs fuftained in the former. 
Now, if the trade propofed were eftabiifhed, it is clear, 
that this caufe alfo would be removed ; and that the veffels 
of the merchants Vv^ould be then nearly in the fame circum- 
ftances as thofe in his Majefty's fervice, which are ftationed 
from three to live months only on this coaft, and have no 
neceiTitv for beating up and down, or expofmg their crews 
continually to the inclemency of the weather. 

The lofs v/hich the crews of thefe experience is but 
trifling, and only fuch as they would have experienced, had 
they ftaid at hom.ej as will appear by the following account. 

A LIST of fuch of His MAJESTY'S SHIPS 

As have been ftationed on the Coaft of Africa 
Since the laft Peace, 

With the Lofs which they fuftained in their refpedive 

Voj^ages. 

Ships Nivme^, Number of Men. Number of Men lojl^ 

Race Horfe lOO O 

Bull Dog 100 5 

Grampus * 300 

Grampus 300 

Grampus 300 

Nautilus 100 

Nautilus 100 



13OQ 10 

e the pea 

It 



^ The Grampus has made three voyages to the Coafi: fince the peace, 
aiid the Nautilus two. 



African Slave Trade. 



7S 



It IS clear from this account, that the lofs, which the 
crews of his Majefty's fliips have fuftained upon this coall, 
is very inconfiderable. NotwithPcanding this, they kept 
their wstch, went into the country for wood and water, 
cut down the former with their own hands, navigated the 
veffel, and were frequently expofed. I would nov/ afk 
what the crew of a merchant's veffd^ if this regular trade 
were eftablilhed, v/ould, if we exclude the reception and 
difcharge of the cargo, have more to do ? 

In fhort, it is clear from the fa6rs and obfervatlons laid 
down already, (and it will be ilili more evident, if we con- 
fider that the lands of Africa could not be cleared and 
cultivated without greatly improving the climate) that if 
a regular trade were eftabliihed in the natural productions 
of the place, and purfued with as much zeal and alacrity 
as we have embarked in that of flaves, this country would 
derive an ineftimable benefit from the change. The feamen 
employed in it, would not only be cheriihed and preferved, 
but would be returned to their native country in health 
and vigour, in cafe of an emergency, in a few weeks : — ■ 
whereas the ilave trade not only cannot fupport itfelf by 
any naval fubje6ls, which it attempts to rear, but dejiroyi 
thofe that hcrue been reared and fupport ed in other trades. 
To which it muft be added, that in cafe of an emergency, 
but little benefit (comparatively fpeaking) is to be derived 
from the fervices of thofe that furvive j and that it con- 
verts many of thofe, v/hom it returns, from the moft 
lifeful to the moil unferviceabie members of the itate. 



CHAP. VII. 



On the Impolicy of the 



CHAP. VII. 

The advocates for the flave trade have never offered 
but two of its appendages, as political arguments for its 
continuance. The firft of thefe, '' that the Jlave trade 
" is a nurfery for our fea?nen.j" has been canvafTed in 
the preceding chapters. The fecond, therefore, upon 
which an equal ftrefs has h^Qn laid, is the only one now 
remainins; for dlfcuffion. 

This argument fnall be given in the moil diftin6i: and 
sdvantao-eous manner in which I am able to convey it. 

" There are two branches of the fiave trade. By means 
^' of the firil we fuppiy the inhabitants of our own colonies 
^' with ilaves, and by means of the fecond the colonifts of 
cc foreif-n nations. The latter generally pay for them in 
" hard dollars. Thefe dollars are brought home, and de- 
« pofited in our bank. Thus the nation becomes enriched, 
*« and the fecond branch of the trade now mentioned is 
*' peculiarly politick.'^'' 

But I reply, if gold or filver be objecls of fuch national 
advantage, aboliili the flave trade. Open a trade to Africa 
in the natural produ6>ions of the country. The gold, 
which is now picked up in fuch fcanty fi-agments, might 
be then found in abundance ; and you might receive 
it in quantities, not only equivalent to the manufadures, 
which would pay for fuch of the flaves as are carried to 
the Spaniards or the French, but in a much greater 
proportion. 

This, I apprehend, would have been a fatisfa61:ory 
anfwer to the argument advanced ; but this branch of the 
trade is really forbad in its tendency, fo fatal in its con- 
fequences, and fo truly impolitick, that I cannot pafs it 
over without feme farther remarks. 

It is clear, that every lot of Ilaves which we additionally 
import, or caufe to be imported into their colonies, enables 
them to clear an additional piece of ground ; every piece 
fo gained, fupplies additional produce. This produce 
employs additional feamen ; and the great number of 
-naval 'fubjeds, which we thus additionally raife for an 

enemy. 



African Slave Trade. ^7 

enemy, has a tendency [which is not to be put into com- 
petition zuith the profits of the Jlave trade) to diminifli our 
naval importance. 

But the evil does not flop here. The French, from a 
variety of caufss, have been able to underfell us in this 
produce at the different markets of Europe. This has 
given birth to an additional fleet of fliips employed in the 
exporting of it to other countries. Now^, if v/e confider 
that French fhips carry nearly double the number of fea- 
men v^hich ours of the fame burthen do, vv^e iliall find that 
we are enabling our reputed enemies, by this branch of the 
trade, to difpute vi^ith us the fovereignty of the feas. 

It is well known, that both the Spaniards and the French 
depend folely upon their American pofTellions for the re- 
cruit of their marine. It is as much an eftabiifhed maxim 
among them, as that the filheries, if properly encooraged, 
would be the compleateft nurfery for our own. For this 
purpofe, the former have opened their ports duty free for 
the reception of flaves * for ten years. For this purpofe the 
latter not only offer a bountv by the ton to the proprietors 
of fuch veffels as import them Into the uncultivated parts 
of St. Domingo, but even afterwards a bounty by the 
head on every imported flave. To this politick condu6l in 
our enemies, and to this impolttick condndi in us, who 
have fulfered our own fubje6i:3 to fupply them at fo pub- 
lick a difadvantage to ourfelves, is to be attributed one of 
the caufes that rendered them fo formidable at fea durlno- 
the late war ; for the reader mufl be informed, that fince 
the year 176c, we have been affifling them v/ith an 
unaccountable infanity to add to the firength of their 
marine. 

This appendage then of the trade calls aloud for the 
immediate interference of the legiflature. It is even more 
detrimental than the former. For we not only increafe the 
naval ftrength of our enemies^ but at the fame time v/e 
diminijh our own. This inverfe ratio of lofs and gain 
which in their fcale of naval importance is either way fo 
much gain, and in ours either way fo much lofs, is of the 

* Beginning In i786» 



yB On the Impolicy of the 

mofl ferlous concern, and the elFecSts, which it may pfd- 
duce in a courfe of years, (o alarming, that they cannot 
be anticipated but with pain. 

Though I may be thought to have faid fufEcient on this 
point, yet I cannot rehnquifh it, impreiled as I am with 
a fenfe of its importance to this country, without fub- 
mitting the following eftimate to the reader. 

Let us fuppofe that we are the means of taking only 
fifteen hundred flaves from the coaft of Africa for the ufe 
of the French and Spanifh colonies in a given time. It 
is certain, if we judge from the common rules, which are 
too accurate to be inapplicable on this occafion, that fix 
hundred of them will be loft in the voyage and feafoning 
together. There will be left therefore nine hundred effec- 
tive people for the purpofe of cultivation, Thefe will 
raife one thoufand hogfheads of fugar every year, employ 
one new fhip, and give birth to twenty-five feamen. This 
* will be the gain on nine hundred ^^Q&iiY& Haves. 

On the other hand we are to confider, that the average 
number of flaves talcen in a Britilli ihip being three hun- 
dred and fixty, four vefTels v/ill be employed in tranfport- 
ing fifteen, or nine hundred effedlive flaves, for the ufe of 
their plantations. The number of feamen loft in thefe, 
including the dead, and the unferviceable, will hz fixty. 

Thus in ^vzxy importation of nine hundred effeilive 
flaves, there is a gain to the reputed enemies of this 
country of twenty-five feamen, and a lofs to us o^ fixty -^ 
that is, a real gain to the former of eighty -five^ befides 
the additional feamen employed in tranfporting the fugar 
from the ports of France to other nation-. Now, if we 
confider that we are the means of importing annually 
fevered thoufand fl.aves into the French and Spanifh colo- 
nies, we fliall more eafily fee the abfurdity, if not the 
political wickednefs of our prefent conduct. 

To fum up the whole. If v/e ferioufly confider the 
appendages of the trade, v/hich have been falfely held 
out as political arguments for its continuance ; if v/e con- 
fider that the trade propofed would have a diiterent ten- 

* This fubjedl will be farther invsftlgated in Chapter the 4th of the 
fecond part of this work, 

dency. 



African Slave Trade, 



79 



dency, and be followed with diiFerent effects ; If we con- 
fider that it would not interfere with the produ6tions of 
our prefent colonies ; that it would be attended with 
emolument to numerous individuals, and at the fame 
time with fubftantial benefits to the ftate ; and if we ad- 
ditionally confider, that it might be the means of averting 
thofe heavy judgments, which the blood of the murdered 
Africans will undoubtedly bring upon us, it will appear, 
that there is no one political argument yet adduced, why 
the flave trade ihould be continued : There are 7nany and 
important ones why it fhould ht fuppre^ed. 



End of the Fh'J Part, 




A H 



A 



ON THE 



IMPOLICY 

OF THE 

AFRICAN SLAVE TRADK 

IN TWO PARTS. 

PART IL 



CHAR L 

SECTION I, 

THE arguments, which the patrons of the Slave trade 
have been accuftomed to offer in its defence, may be 
divided into two kinds. The firft comprehends the 
pofitive advantages that refult from the profecution of this 
trade ; the fecond the fatal confequences of its abolition. 
The former have been examined already. The latter are 
to become the fabje6t of the remaining part of the work. 
It is faid firft, that if the flave trade is abolifhed, the 
planters will be in want of cultivators for their lands, and 
that many other melancholy confequences will refult to 
them, as well as to the /laves and the ijlands^ from the 
abolition of the trade, 

F I ihall 



22 On the Impolicy of th^ 

I fliall fhew firll, that it is in the power of the plantefgy 
if they pleafe, to do without frelh fupplies from the coaft : 
I fhall then (hew, that if the importation of flaves is 
prohibited, no fuch w^ant will be found, but on the other 
hand, that the number of cultivators will increafe : and^ 
laftly, that both the planters, the flaves, and the iflands, 
will be beftefited by the change. 

To fhew the truth of the firft pofition, I fhall have 
recourfe to the following fa6ls. 

In the year 1771, a gentleman, now in England, be- 
came the proprietor of an eftate, fituated near Montego 
Bay, in the parifh of Hanover, Ja?naka. The number 
of flaves, at that time upon it, amounted to two hundred 
and feventy-fixy all of whom had been born in the fame 
iJlaiuL In the year 1786, after fifteen years had elapfed^ 
the number was found the fame : nor had any purchafe 
whatever been made within that period, nor was any at 
the end of it necefTary. 

In the year 1754, another gentleman fucceeded to art 
eftate in the fame parifh and ifland. It contained, at that 
time, two hundred and thirty -three flaves. By his laft 
account, dated in June 1786, the number appeared to 
have increafed, without any fupplies from the coafl, to 
three hundred and fourteen^ though fourteen had been fent 
to other eftates, or manumitted. 

In the fame ifland are fix other eftates, which have 
been in a fimilar fituation, and for the truth of which I 
will become accountable, if required. 

The firft of thefe has fupported itfelf, independently of 
the flave trade, for twenty years, and from no other 
caufe, than that the owner, having thought it more to 
his intereft that his flaves fhould increafe by birth than 
hy purchafe^ made his arrangements accordingly. 

The fecond and third, fituated in the parifh of Claren- 
don, have had no occafion for a Angle recruit from Africa 
for many years. 

The fourth, in the parifh of St. James, found a 
refource within itfelf, and by the following means. The 
proprietor made it a rule to releafe every woman from all 
©bligation to labour, as foon as Ihe had a certain number 

of 



African Slave Trade. 83 

of chlidreri, fit to be put to work. The eonfequence of this 
was, that his flaves were continually on the increafe. 

The fifth and fixth, fituated in the parifh of St. John, 
and vale of Guanaboa, oh account of the humane difpo- 
fition of the overfeer, and the moderate fliare of labour 
which he impofes upon the flavesj have no neceffity for 
fupplieSi 

The above is an account of fuch plantations as can be 
fpecified, and proved beyond the poffibility of refutationj 
to have fubfifted independently of the flave trade in the 
ifland of yamaica. Many others are to be found there iri 
the fame predicament. But as fituation, climate, and a 
variety of other circumftances (beyond thofe of gentle treat- 
ment) may be faid to have contributed to bring them into fd 
defirable a ftate, it will be proper to fee if in other iflands 
fimilar inftances can be found. 

In the year 1773, in the parifh of Nichola Town and 
ifland of St. Chrijhpher^ was a plantation, which contained 
at that time two hundred and ten jlaves. The proportion 
of females upon it was but very fmall, when compared 
with that of the males. This circumftance was much 
againft it in point of the increafe of its cultivators. It 
had, however, two advantages. The manager of it was 
an eafy humane man, and his wife a difcreet and tender 
nurfe. From thefe circumftances alone^ the number had 
increafed in the year 1779 to two hundred and twenty -eighty 
and in the year 1781, when the gentlenlan, who under- 
takes to authenticate the faftj quitted the ifland, it had 
become, without any fupply from the coafl, two hundred 
and thirty-four. 

In the fame iflandj but in the adjoining parifh of 
Cayon, is a plantation^ that has fupported itfelf in the 
fame manner* The flaves upon it have been Worked 
with method, and treated tolerably welL In the year 1765 
they artiounted to one hundred and fifty -eight : in the year 
1766 to an hundred and fixty : and in the year 1781, by 
means of generation, to one hundred andfeventy-two. 

In the ifland of Barbadoes is a plantation, the prefent 
proprietor of which came into pofTefTion of it in the year 
1 774. At that time it contained one hundred and nineteen 
faveSk Fiv4 have been purchafed fmce. In the yeai 

F 2 1784 



84 On the Impolicy of the 

1784 twenty-feven v/ere added to it, by the bequeft of 3 
relation, who then died ; fo that the number, by extraor- 
dinary means, amounted to one hundj-ed and fifty one. By 
a furvey in February 1788, it appeared, that they had 
increafed, without purchafe, to one hundred and fixty-one^ 
though three had been fold, three had been killed by the 
hurricane in the year 1780, and three more had apparently 
died in confequence of it. 

On another plantation, in the fame ifland, were reckoned 
in the December of the year 1774 one hundred and fifteen 
flaves. In the year 1777 it received an addition, by 
purchafe, of thirty-two. This raifed the numb-er to one 
hundred and forty-feven. Their prefent number, by 
means of generation is one hmidred andfixty-three^ and it 
had been IHII greater, had not five been loil in the fame 
hurricane as the former. 

I muft not forget to obferve here, that the flaves upon 
thefe eftates were treated with great humanity, and that 
much praife is due to the proprietor of the former, who 
came forv/ardy in the moft difmterefted manner, to fub- 
ftantiate the facSls. 

There is a fmall eflate in the fame iiland, which has 
alfo experienced an increafe by the fame means. In the 
year 1 764 it was let upon leafe with thirty flaves upon it. 
The treatment which they have uniformly experienced 
fmce that period has been humane and mild : the confe- 
quence has been this, that no recruit has been purchafed 
for the purpofe of keeping up their ftock, and that their 
prefent number 1% forty -four. In the fame ifland are feveral 
other eftates in a fimilar fituation. 

In the parifh of Middle Ifland and Ifland of Antigua,^ the 
proprietor of a confiderable eftate, in confequence of his 
humane dire6lions, and a determination not to make any 
purchafes from the coail, has had no fupply (if we except 
a few flaves taken from a difmantled plantation) for 
thirty years. 

In the ifland of Dommique is an eftate, on which the 
flaves have been fo much increafed by humane treatment^ 
as to have rendered any fupply imneceffary. 

In the iiland ot St. Domingo is a plantation, belonging 
to the refpedable houfe of Fouache, of Havre, Thefe 

gentlemen 



African Slave Trade. B$^ 

.gentlemen came to the laudable refolution not to opprefs 
their flaves. The quantity of work, which was accord- 
ingly given to five hundred of them to perform, was only 
luch as three hundred and fifty would have been obliged to 
execute on other eftates in the fame time. The effeiSts of 
this humane regulation are now vifible. The flaves mid^ 
tiply-i and the plantation profpers. 

In each of the Danifh illands of St, Thomas and St. 
Cro'ix^ an eftate can be pointed out, which has fupported. 
Itfelf by natural means. That in the firft, when the 
gentleman who communicated this intelligence left the 
iflands, was in the pofTeffion of Monfieur de Marv : that 
in the fecond of Baron Shimmeiman. Both thefe were 
in a vt^y fuperiour ftate of culture at that time, and had 
received no uipplies whatever for many years. 

In two of the Granadillas are two plantations, that are 
now in the fame ftate. The proprietor of the firft, when 
he took polTeffion, found that feveral of the flaves upon It 
were then old. Notwithflanding this, and that thefe foon 
died, yet in confequ^nce of the gentle dominion which he 
held over them, and his prudent management, fo many 
have been born and preferved, and the lives of the refl; fo 
prolonged, that he has always had a fufHcient number for 
the cultivation of the fame land, without the purchafe of 
any recruit from the coaft. The other alfo, by the fame 
means, has fupported itfelf independently of the flave 
t-rade. 

I have now mentioned feveral * plantations, fltuated 



* To this lift -I rqay add thp following extract from a Letter to the 
Dean of Middleham.— " According to the beft of my remembrance (fays 
*^' the writer) the following eftates for about twenty years, whilft under 
** the management of humane and merciful men, kept up their ftock of 
** Negroes by the natural increafe.— ^Sir William Fitzherbert's eftate in 
** St. Andrev/s, during the life of Mr. Rolftone his manager 5 — three 
*' eftates of the late Colonel Newton in Chrift Church and St. James's 5 
«' — the eftates of the late Mr. Haggat in St, George's and St. Peter's jr« 
*' the eftate of Mr. Graves in St. Lucy's ;-rthe eftate of the Honpurabl«i 
*' William Bifliop in St. Lucy's } — the eftate of Colonel Maynard in St. 
<* Michael's 5 — an eftate of Sir Philip Gibbes, whilft under his own dl- 
*' redtion J — the eftate of Mrs. Ferchufon in St. Peter's j — che eftates o^ 
« the late Thomas Alleyne, Efq. during the life of Mr. Rolftone 3 — the 
** eftate of Mrs. Street during the life of Mr. Johnftone.— Thefe are all 
<* that I can at prefent recolleft." 

F 3 either 



86 On the Impolicy of the 

either In the Britlfh, French, or Danifh iflands, that hav^ 
fupported them [elves by natural means^ and in which, during 
the reign of their refpeftive proprietors either mentioned 
or alluded to, no reverfe in the fcale of their population 
has been experienced. It is my intention next to refer to 
fuch, as in this refpe6t have experienced a change, or to 
fuch, as being contiguous to each other, but under 
oppofite fyftems of adminiftration, have fhewn vifibly 
their different effects. 

In the parifh of Cayon and Ifland of St. Chriftopher 
was a certain plantation, which vv'as under the manage- 
ment of a rigid and auftere man. He continually harraifed 
the flaves ; making them work with but little intermiffion 
for fix days, and on thojeventh obliging them to be em- 
ployed in the cultivation of their little fpots. In confe- 
quence of this continual obligation to labour^ and want of 
reji^ the number of cultivators decreafed^ and an annual 
fupply was necefTary of about one in ten to keep up the 
flock. In the year 1763 this difciplinariar^ left them, to 
take upon him the management of a more confiderable 
eftate. He was fucceeded by a man of an oppofite cha- 
racter, who indulged the flaves with the free ufe of the 
Sabbath^ treated them well, and took care of them when 
fick. Under his mild adminiftration (notwithftanding the 
flaves were all of them native Africans, and notwithftand- 
ing they were but fparingly fed) the face of things was fo 
much altered on that eftate, that it had no necellity, as 
before, for any farther fupplies from the coaft. 

In the fame parifh and ill and is a plantation, the fitua- 
tion of which has been exa6lly the reverfe of the former. 
In the year 1766, the proprietor, who refided upon it, was 
in the pofleflion of an hundred and fifty -f even jJaves. He 
worked them judicioufly. He fed them well. He treated 
them with tendernefs and care. In the year 1772 he 
died ; when it was found, that he had raifed their number 
only in fix years to one hundred and eighty^ without any 
purchafes from the coaft. His fuccefibr, hov/ever, pur-r 
fued a diiFerent plan. Let us mark the confequence. — - 
His flaves, in the year 1 781, were reduced to one hundred 
and fifty -lev en ^ fo that in nine years all the effort;s of his 
predecelTor were undone, 

In 



African Slave Trade, 2j 

In the ifland of St, Domingo Is an eftate which has 
experienced a fimilar change. The owner confidered 
himfelf as the father of his flaves : he never harrafled 
them with exceffive iabour. He fed and treated them 
well : and fo mild and gentle was his government, that it 
became a proverb, " as happy as a Have of Gallifet." 
Thus treated, their increafe was rapid. About fifteen 
years ago he died. The prefent proprietor has fince 
adopted a different fyftem. His flaves continually de- 
creafe, and he lofes by the change of management. 

In the ifland of Antigua is another plantation, in which 
a fimilar revolution has taken place. It was formerly ce- 
lebrated for the judicious and indulgent treatment of the 
flaves, that were then upon it. The owner refided on 
the fpot. He faw his flaves happy. He faw them increafe 
without purchafe, and fo rapidly, that his eflate was 
confidered as overflocked. Such was the fituation of 
affairs under his gentle reign, when he was taken from 
the world. A different mode of treatment has been fince 
introduced. The golden age has been converted into the 
iron. The flaves, nurtured by the foflering hand of their 
former proprietor, have fallen off, and the eftate is now 
not only in want of an annual fupply, but is involved in 
debt. 

In the fame iHand are two other plantations, which 
border upon each other. The owner of one of them long 
ago adopted the fyflem of hnmediate exertion* He pur- 
chafed chiefly males. He worked them hard, and with 
feverity. The proprietor of the fecond declared in favour 
of the oppofite plan. He proportioned the fexes accord- 
ingly, and he treated them well. The effects of the two 
different fyflems of adminiftration will now be {qqitl. The 
firfl has been in want of an annual fupply. The latter 
has fupported \tk\i for more than forty years^ and the 
flaves upon it have become fo numerous, that they not 
only do the whole bufmefs of the eflate, but are let out at 
tafk-work, to the great emolument of the proprietor, ou 
other plantations. 

I have now given a fhort hiftory of no lefs than tiventy^ 

fix plantations. From thefe, and others in a fimilar fitua- 

tion^ it will appear, that where there have been any 

F 4 favourable 



2S On the Impolicy of the 

favourable circumftances, fuch as the proper proportion 
of the fexes in one, gentle treatment in a fecond, any 
indulgence in point of labour in a third, and the like, 
the7'e the flaves have uniformly increafed: that where the 
contrary have taken place, there they have decreafed, and 
have been in want offupplies. That the fame eftate, which 
under a mild adminiftration has been overftocked, has, 
under an oppofite fyftem, annually loft a part of its 
labourers : that the fame, which during a reign of rigour 
has been conftantly requiring recruits, has in that of hu- 
manity fupported itfelf for a while, and at length pre- 
cluded the neceffity of a fupply : and that in certain 
plantations contiguous to each other, fharing the fame 
climate, and fituated on the fame kind of foil, but under 
oppofite forms of government, the one has been perpetu- 
ally lofmg its labourers, the other has been overftocked : 
in fhort, that it is at the option of the planter, whether 
fupplies are reqiiifite or not ; certain regulations producing 
the one, and the contrary the oppofite efFecl:s. 

Indeed, the very idea, that the planters cannot proceed 
without frefti fupplies from the coaft, is repugnant to 
reafon. 

For let us fir ft, for a moment, look upon the unfortunate 
Africans in the light of cattle. Is it not in the power of 
any farmer^ who prefers breeding to purchafing, to fupply 
himfelf with animals of labour from his ov/n ftock ? 

Let us now confider them as men. It is an invariable 
law, that any fociety of people, under common advan- 
tages, muft at leaft keep up their number, if not increafe ; 
otherwife Providence, in calling the human fpecies into 
life, muft have defeated his own defign. What then 
fhould hinder the Africans, peculiarly prolifick in their 
nature, carried to a climate fimilar to that which they have 
left, and treated with common humanity, from continuing 
their own fpecies, and precluding the neceffity of a fupply? 
In jQiort, in whatever point of view we confider it, the 
pofition is equally abfurd. 

Mr. Long, the author of the Hiftory of Jamaica, who 
more than once takes an apportunity of ridiculing the fame 
notion, has even gone fo far, as to reduce the probability 
^i the increafe of the Africans in the colonies to ftated 

ruleso 



African Slave Trade. S9 

rules. " If (fays he) the number of hogfheads, made 

" on a plantation, exceeds or even equals the whole 
<' ao-gregate of negroes employed upon it, hut few children 
« will be brought up on Juch an effate^ whatever number 
*« may be born ; for the mothers will not have fufficient 
« time to take due care of them : and if they are put 
« under the charge of fome elderly woman or nurfe, as 
« the cuftom is in many places, it cannot be fuppofed that 
*« they meet with the fame tendernefs, as might be ex- 
*' pected from their parents. But where the proportion of 
*' annual produce is about half an hogihead for every 
" neo-roe, there they will, in all likelihood, increafe very 
^' rapidly ; and not much lejsfo^ where the ratio is of two 
*' hoo-fheads to every three negroes, which I take to be 
*' a good mean proportion : agreeably to which, an eftate, 
" making communibus annis two hundred hogfheads, 
" ought to mufter on its lift (old and young) three hun- 
" dred negroes ; and if it makes three hundred hogflieads, 
" four hundred and fifty fuch negroes, and fo on. An 
" eftate fo handed may not only, casteris paribus, fave the 
" expence of buying recruits^ but may every year afford 
" fo?ne addition to the firft number, of v/hich I have 
^^ known inconteftible exa?nples in Jamaica.^^ * 

But this, I apprehend, will be found fufficient. For 
when the reader refle6ts on the number of eftates now 
fpecined, that have fupported themfelves, independently 
of the flave trade ; when he confiders the uniform increafe 
in fome, the revolutions that have happened in others, 
and refers them to their proper caufes ; or when he con- 
fults only his own unbiaffed reafon, he cannot but fee the 
inconfiftency of the argument, which but too generally 
prevails, " that the planters cannot proceed without frefh 
i^' fupplies from the coaft." 



SECTION IL 

Having now fhewn the truth of the firjfl: pofition by 
means of undeniable facts, I fhail inquire into the proba- 

* Long^ Vol, II. Page 437, 438. 

bility 



^■0 On the Impolicy of the 

bility of the firfl: confequence, which, it is faid, will bfe' 
experienced in the iflands from the abolition of the trade 
in flaves. 

It is fald firft, that " if the importation of flaves is 
" prohibited, the planters will be in want of cultivators 
« for their lands."" 

This firft efFe6t will be bell feen by tracing the diiFerent 
£at/fes of the diminution of flaves in the colonies, and the 
ej^ed Vv^hich the abolition will have upon each of thefe. 

It is well knov/n, that many of the proprietors of poft^ 
horfes in this country adopt the following plan. They 
purchafe a horfe at a certain price, and at a certain age. 
They drive him through twice the vi^ork which he ought 
to perform in a given time. If he lafts for a determined 
period, they coniider themfelves as repaid with profit. If^ 
after this, he has not a leg to ftand upon, they do not 
care. 

This mode of reafoning, which is execrable even when 
applied to the brute creation, is in the colonies put into 
execution on the human fpecies. It has been often calcu^ 
lated by fome of the planters there, v/hether it is more to 
their intereft to work out a flave, by an uncommon impo- 
fition of labour, in five or fix years, and fupply his place by a 
new recruit from the coaft, to be worked up and fucceeded 
in the fame manner, or to breed from their prefent fbock, 
and to work them with moderation. Some have wifely 
adopted the latter plan j but the former has been but too 
generally follov/ed. 

It is clear, that on all thofe plantations, where this 
inhuman fyftem prevails, it is impoffible for the planter to 
do without frefh fupplies. His whole plan is confeiTedly 
againft it. He has made his calculations accordingly. 
He has ftated the time, in which human nature is capable 
of fuftaining itfelf under his tafk of drudgery and his 
iafh. This diabolical determination, to employ new gene-R 
rations of men from the coaft of Africa, and to work 
them up in a ftated time, inftead of rearing them by 
natural means, and working them with moderation, is 
one grand fource of the necelTity for the prefent annual 
fupplies. 

The 



African Slave Trade* gi 

The firft effeft, which the * abolition of the flave trade 
muft have upon the unfeeling planters defcribecl, would 
be, that their execrable calculations would be flopped. 
No new generations of men would be then to be had, as 
before. They muft immediately change their plan. 
They muft breed. They muft find that refource within 
themfelves, which their avarice has taught them to reje6i:; 
and they muft immediately turn a fyftem of calculated 
oppreflion, and murder, into that of lenity, tendernefs, and 
prefervation. 

Such is the effect which the abolition of the Have trade 
muft have upon this caufe of the diminution of flaves in 
the colonies. There are other eftates, however, where 
thefe calculations are not made, which are yet in want of 
fupplies. 

In almoft all of them it will be found, that but little 
care is taken, or can be taken, according to the prefent 
fyftem of things in the colonies, of thofe infants that are 
born. An incredible number of thefe annually perifh, 
who, if preferved, would have been fubftantial fupplies. 

The diforder, which takes many of them ofF, is the 
locked jaw. This arifes from various caufes,* but is par- 
ticularly chargeable upon the comfortlefs fituation of the 
mother, who is deprived of neceftaries, and of the power 
of paying that proper attention to her child, in preferving 
it from cold and damps, which its infant-fituation requires ; 
for it is a remarkable facl, that this diforder paiTes by other 
infants in the colonies, whether black or white, of whom 
proper care has been taken. 

It is ufual for them too, before they are weaned, to 
accompany their mothers to the field, who tie them behind 
their backs, and carry them through the labour of the 
day, or leave them in a furrow. Thus expofed to a ver- 
tical fun, and afterwards to the dews of the evening, or 
to very heavy rains, and having received hitherto but a 
{lender and unwholefome fupport from the breafts of their 
overheated mothers, many of them are taken off". Thofe, 
who furvive the weaning, are left negleded at home, or 

* 1 mean not only the abolition of the Slave trade by the Britiili 
nation, but a total prohibition of the importation of flaves into the 
colonies from any other quarter. 

arc 



^1 On the Impolicy of the 

are put under the care of an old and infirm woman, who 
cannot be fuppcfed to have that affection for them, which 
their parents have, and who is often incapable of per- 
forming her allotted tafk. By thefe, and other means, 
fome of thofe, who have efcaped for a little time, are added 
to the infant dead. 

The elFed, which the abolition of the flave trade mull 
haV'i on this fecond caufe, would be this. Every care and 
attention would be paid to the rearing of the new gene- 
ration. Convenient rooms would be built on each eftate 
for the accommodation of the women in the laft ftage of 
their pregnancy. The mother would have more time to 
herfelf, and more indulgencies. In fome eftates fhe would 
have, perhaps, a releafe from all future obligation to labour, 
after ilie had reared her third child ; in others fhe might 
receive a donation. Thefe regulations, if put into force, 
would immediately endear the proprietor to the parents ; 
would prove a conftant incitement to their emulation ; and 
would be the means of preferving a great number of 
recruits, who would otherwife have annually perifhed. 

A third caufe of the diminution of Haves in the colo- 
nies is the very fcaJity allowance of provifion^ which is 
given them on many plantations. It is too general a 
cuftom to fpread almoft every acre, that is pjantable, with, 
canes. But little land, and even that the worft, is? 
allotted for provifions for the flaves. Thus the labourers, 
v/hofe prefervation fhould have been the firft and greatefi 
object, are left deflitute of fufficient nutriment and 
fupport. 

A fourth is the incejjant and intolerahle labour which 
they are often obliged to undergo. Perhaps their pro- 
prietor is extravagant, or involved. To fupport his 
luxuries on the one hand, or to clear his incumbrances 
on the other, he has recourfe to the fmews of his Haves. 
Uncommon exertions are deemed neceflary for the pur- 
pofe : and if hie fituation fliould not be fimilar to that 
which I have fuppofed, certain it is, that too often the 
reputation of the manager, and his continuance in office, 
depend more, in the eye of his employer, on the number 
of hogjloeads of fugar annually made, than on the prefer- 
vation of the flaves. 

A fifth 



African Slave Trade, 93 

A fifth caufe is cruel and fevere v.fagc^ fuch as the 
conftant application of the lafh, confinement, torture, 
and other barbarous treatment, whether for real or 
imaginary faults. This depends, in fome meafure, on 
the difcipllne of the colony, on the abfence of the pro- 
prietor from his eftate, or on the unfeeling difpofition of 
the manager, who has none but a temporary intereft, and 
who of courfe cannot be concerned in any future advan- 
tage, v/hich might accrue to the proprietor by the prefer- 
vation of his flaves. Under fuch managers, (fays a 
fenfible writer) " an increafe is not more to be expe6led, 
" than an increafe from a flock of fheep, if a wolf were 
" to he the Jhepherd:' 

In confequence then of the three caufes, that have been 
mentioned lafl:, namely, a fcanty allowance of food, in- 
ceflant and intolerable labour, and cruel and fe\^ere ufage, 
either exifting feparately or conjointly on an eftate, feveral 
of the flaves, whofe lives have become a burthen to them, 
deftroy themfelves. Others fly into the woods, where, 
expofed to the cold of the night, attacked by the pangs of 
hunger and thirft, and lacerated in their bodies by the 
prickly teeth with which every fhrub is armed in that 
country, they foon perifh : while thofe, who by vigilance, 
terror, or other means are retained at home, are necefl^arily 
worn out in their prime, and their lives fhortened. Thefe 
circumftances therefore occafion, and muft ever occalion, 
as long as they exift, a neceffity for annual fupplies. 

The efFe6l, which the abolition of the flave trade muft 
neceflTarily have upon thofe who feed, work, or treat their 
flaves as above defcribed, is evident, Proviiion, which 
has hitherto been the laft, muft become the firft confidera- 
tion with the planter. A part of the land, occupied by 
canes, muft be appropriated to the fupport of his flaves, 
and a fufficient quantity of the neceflTaries of life muft be 
allowed them. Regular hours of reft, and machines of 
labour muft be introduced. The lafh, that was formerly 
lifted up for imaginary faults, or for the indulgence of 
pafliion and caprice, muft be kept down, Punifhmenfs 
muft be more commenfurate to the offence. A fyftem of 
treatment more moderate and humane muft be adopted. 
It muft immediately ftrike the proprietor, that if his flave 

(hould 



^4 On tHE Im^olIcv o'b^ Tiiti 

fhould fall by ili-judged fe verity or negled^, it will be lon^ 
before he can replace him. 

There are various other caufes of the diminution of 
flaves in the colonies, all of v^hich muft be equally anni- 
hilated in their turn. New regulations, adapted to thd 
fuppreffion of each, muft immediately take place. I fay 
" mu/f take place," becaufe the^ planter, unlefs he adopts 
themj will have no other profpe6t, than that of inevitable 
ruin. And that he will madly throw himfelf from the 
precipice, when he can avoid it with folid advantage to 
himfelf, is a pofition too ridiculous to be admitted. 

If thefe regulations then, or fimilar to thefe, fhould 
take place, as they inevitably muft, when every profpe6l 
of a future fupply is taken away ; if population fhould be 
really encouraged ; if a lefs proportion of labour fhould 
be required, food more plentifully fupplied, and a fyftem 
of tendernefs be adopted in the place of that of calculated 
feverity and oppreilion j if, moreover, the progeny of the 
then flaves fhould have the fame attention beftowed upon 
them, as others of the human race, it is not only felf-^ 
evident, that, like other human beingSj they will be able 
to continue their fpecies, but, being endued with a more 
prolifick nature than the reft, that they muft rapidly in^ 
creafe ; and that the planters will be fo far from being in 
want of cultivators for their lands, that they will foon be 
enabled to put new land into culture without any purchafes 
from the coajh 



SECTION HI. 



I have now confidered the abolition of the flave trade 
as far as it would have an influence on the prefent 
or future nu?nber of the flaves : I come now to the fecond 
point of inquiry, namely, to confider the immediate or 
future effect which it would have upon the planters^ th© 
Jlaves themfelves, and the ijlands: for it has been faid, 
that many other melancholy confequences would arife to 
thefe by the abolition of the trade. 

Th^ 



African Slavic Trade* 



^5 



The firfi: effeS:, that the planter would immediately 
experience, would be this. He would fave the money 
formerly expended in the purchafe of new flaves, and of 
courfe avoid the inconceivable difficulties vvhich he has 
now neceflarily to encounter on this account. 

That the reader may form a notion of the diftrefs 
under which he frequently labours from this circumftance, 
and of the advantages refulting from the change, I fhall 
give him the fentiments of Mr. Long, who was too much 
attached to the interells of his friends in the iflands, to 
deceive them in this particular. 

* " The purchafe of new negroes (fays he) is the moft 
*' chargeable article attending thefe eftates, and the tj^ue 
^^ fource of the diftrefles, under which their ov/ners 
" fufFer : for they involve themfelves fo deeply in debt 
'' to make thefe inconfiderate purchafes, and lofe fo many 
*' by difeafe or other means in the feafoning, that they 
*' become unable to make good their engagements, are 
*' plunged 171 lawfmts and anxiety ; while for want of fomc 
*' prudent regulation in the right hufbanding of their 
*' ftock, and promoting its increafe by natural means^ they 
*' intail upon themfelves a neceffity of drawing perpetual 
*' recruits of unfeafoned Africans, the expence of which 
*' forms only a new addition to their debts and diJficuhiesJ* 

To confirm this, I fhall ftate a few particular fac^s. 
In the ifland of Jamaica four courts are annually held, 
namely, in the months of February, May, Auguft, and 
November. About three thoufand new a6i:ions are 
ufually brought at each of thefe, chiefly on bonds ; and 
of thefe bonds about nine-tenths are fuch as have been 
given to the fa6torsy^r new Jlaves, 

In the fame ifland about /-y^ hundred thoufand pounds 
pafled through the hands of a certain fheriiF in three 
years. This prodigious fum had been procured by the 
fale of goods, taken chiefly on execution on fuch bonds, 
as had been given for the fame purpofe as the former. 

The principal part of thofe who were confined in the 
goals of the fame ifland, during the fame period, confifled 
of people whofe perfons had been feized, after the ilTuing 

* Long's Hiftory of Jamaica, Vol, I. Page 437, 



96 On th£ Impolicy of tiIe 

out of executions on judgment, to make up that deHci« 
ency in their ^2.ymQi\tfor JJaves^ to which their goods had 
not been found adequate. 

It is eafy to fee from hence, and the foregoing quotati- 
on from Mr. Long^ that I have not been ftating a vifionary 
or chimerical advantage. The planter^ in confequence 
of the regulations, that would unavoidably follow the 
abolition of the Have trade, would protra6i: the lives of 
his prefent Haves. In the interim, the rifmg generation 
would be fhooting upi To fave therefore the purchafe- 
money ufually expended in thefe^ to be freed from a 
fource of continual inquietude and diftrefs, and at the 
fame time to experience no diminution in the returns of 
his eftate, is an advantage fo fubftantial and important at 
the firft fight, as to need no farther illuftratioh. 

There is a fecond, however, which he would alfo im- 
mediately feel. His flaves would become more valuablci 
Whatever may be his property in thefe at the prefent 
moment, certain it is, that, on the moment of the 
abolition of the flave trade^ it would be confiderably 
increafed. Is the value of it but barely adequate to the 
difcharge of his debts ? — He would be able to free him- 
felf from thefe, and to have an overplus for himfelf. — In 
fhort, v/hatever may be his fituation in the iflands, he 
would derive in this refpciSl an immediate benefit from 
the change. 

But his future would be infinitely greater than his 
prefent advantages. His flaves, v/hich would become 
immediately more valuable in confequence of the aboli- 
tion, would, in procefs of time, become more valuable 
from another confideratlon. Let us view them therefore 
at a diflant period. Let us fee their fituation in about 
twenty years, after this great event has taken place. 

At this period, it is to be prefumed^ that all the flaves 
in the iflands would be Creoles* 

In the firfl place, they would have been inured from 
their infancy, in a regular gradation of employment, to 
labour. They would of courfe be more hardy^ and ca- 
pable of the plantation work, than any of their prede« 
cefTors, who, having led, perhaps, a life of indolence in 
their own country, have been but little capable of fuflain- 

ing 



African Slave Trade, 



97 



ing the fatigue which thej have been fentenced to 
undergo. 

They would, fecondly, be more ready and expert. 
Born on the iflands, they would attain our language, and 
uiiderftand us immediately : whereas, their predeceflbrs, 
the imported Africans, have been Unable^ for a length of 
time, to comprehend our meaning. 

Tbefe circumftances would greatly increafe their price, 
if expofed to fale, and of courfe the property of their 
poileiTors : and as a proof of it, I appeal to the planter, 
whether he does not confider a Creole^ at this moment, 
of twice the value of an imported Jlave. 

This is one of th.Q future advantages which the planter 
v/ould una\^oidably experience in confequence of the abo- 
lition of the trade. I (hall now proceed to enumerate 
the reft. 

His work would he better done. This Is evident from 
the habit of labour, which his flaves would have 
acquired from their infancy, and (if I may be allowed the 
expreiiion) their apprenticejlnp to their work. 

More of it would be done in the fame time. This may" 
anpear a paradox to many. But the labour of thofe flaves, 
who arc ruled with a rod of iron, is inconceivably fmall. 
Will a man v/6rk with alacrity for the irjafter who ftarves, 
tortures, and opprefTes him ? Will he work with alacrity 
where he has no mtereft in his labour ? Where, if his 
finews are worn out with exertion, he is not fuiFered to 
partake, in any degree, the fruits of his pains ? But, 
reverfe the fcene. Let him be treated with tendernefs. 
Let his wants be fupplied. This will operate as an incite- 
ment to his exertions : gratitude will demand a return ; 
and his labour will carry with it, wherever it is traced, 
diftinguifhing marks of the change. This is not merely 
a fpeculative pofition - It is founded on experience. Ma- 
ny planters have been witnefTes oi th^ fa6t:. 

A certain American refugee fled with his flaves, during 
the late war, to the ifland of Jamaica. It was his con- 
ilant cuftom to treat thenl well, i6 vifit thciii in their 
ficknefs, to attend to their complaints, to confider them 
rather as fcrvants for whom he had a regard, than as his 
:flavss. In confequence of this, their indulgencies werft 

(y manvi 



^3 On the Impolicy of the 

many. Thefe, however, were not loft upon them. 
They brought their mafter the firft fruits of their little 
fpots, of their poultry, of their fwine. They behaved in 
an orderly manner, and tailed for him with alacrity and 
joy. 

Thefe indulgencies, however, did not fail to attra6i: the 
notice of the managers of the neighbouring plantations. 
They looked upon them with a painful eye. They at 
length waited upon the difpenfer of them, and aflured 
him, that if he continued his mild adminiflration, he 
would ruin the difcipline of his neighbour's flaves. His 
reply v/as this : — " I treat my flaves with lenity. They 
<^ work four hours in the day lefs than yours. Notwith- 
*' {landing thefe indulgencies they do more work than 
*' yours, who are whipped through it from morning to 
*' night. The comparative advantages are fo great in my 
" favour, from my prefent fyftem, that, if I paid no re- 
*' gard to the calls of humanity^ I mull continue to 
" purfue it." 

Such would be the cafe were the Have trade abolifhed ; 
for fuch humane treatment, and fuch indulgencies would 
be the confequence of the abolition, as would prove an 
incitement to the exertions of the flaves, more than the 
ftimulus of the lafh, or the goad of avarice and op- 
prellion. 

To this advantage of having a greater quantity cf work 
'performed in the fame t'lme^ which would increafe the 
annual profit or returns of the planter, another would be 
added. In confequence of the abolition of the flave trade, 
he would have been under the neceflity of appropriating a 
certain portion of land to the fuflenance of his cattle, and 
his flaves o We fhould fee him, therefore, at the future 
period afligned,- in a comfortable fituation : not uneafy and 
agitated as before, not depending upon a precarious fub- 
fiftence from diftant parts, efpecially in the time of war, 
but having q-^q^^ refource on his own eftate, and in his 
own power. 

But if Tiny future advantage, which he would experience 
from the abolition, is to be eftimated higher than the reft, 
it would be this,-— that he would fleep in peace, and be no 
longer under apprehenfions from thofe private cabals, and 

open 



African Slave Trade. §^ 

open infarredtions, which His former conduct had fo 
defervedly oceafioned. 

Many of the unfortunate people, who are brought into 
the colonies, have been kidnapped, have been forcibly 
torn from their connections. The remembrance of thefe 
is painful. It frequently excites the figh, and makes 
them diffatisfied and reftlefs. Others, if procured in a 
fairer manner, have been vet unufed to labour. The 
fevere tafk, impofed upon them in the colonies, is of 
courfe only the more fenfibly felt. This, with cruel 
ufage, confinement, torture, and other circumftancesj 
prevents an attachment to their mafters, makes them 
revengeful, vigilant to gratify that revenge, and indulgent 
of it, if occafion offers. 

The Haves, on the other hand, at the period ailigned, 
would be all Creoles^ and in a different predicament. 
They would not have been violently feparated, like their 
predeceffbrsj from that country, and thofe connexions, 
which they efteemed moft in life. They would have been 
inured from their infancy to labour, and would find no 
hardfhip in their allotted tafk. They would not be fo 
keenly fenfible of the lofs of liberty, which is perhaps, of 
all others, the greateft incitement to an infurredion. A 
bird, that has been bred up in captivity, does not repine 
like one, that has been taken from the woods, and con- 
fined within the narrow limits of a cage. Such would be 
the fituation of the flaves at this future period ; and i^o 
juftly (as the reader will fee) are thefe confequences to be 
apprehended, that it is a matter of fadtj that « * the chief 
" actors in the feditions and mutinies, which it different 
'' times have broken out in the iflands, have been the 
" imported Africans ;" whereas fome of the Creole flaves 
have been intrufted with arm.s in their hands without 
abnfe, 

Thefe would be the chief advantages that would refult 

to the planter from the abolition o^ the trade in flaves. 

, A fource of continual embarrafijnent and diffrefs would 

be immediately taken away. His property would be con- 

fiderably increafed ; his annual returns larger : he would 

* Long's Hiflory of Jamaica, Vol, It, p, 444. 

G 2 feel 



100 On" the Impolicy of the 

feel himfelf in an independent fituation, in point of (uh-^ 
fiftence, either in peace or war ; and he would have the 
unfpeakable fatisfa6tion of going to his bed fearlefs of any 
private machinations, and in full confidence that his pro-* 
perty as well as his perfon would be fecure. 

Havino- confidercd v/hat would be the immediate or 
future fituation of the plante>'^ in confequence of the 
change, I come now to that of the flave. 

If the ilave trade were abolifhed, it is evident that 
many mild and falutary regulations would immediately 
take place ; that the dave would be better fed ; that his 
hours of labour would be reduced to fewer in the day ; 
that his perfon would be more fecure ; that he would have 
the power of appeal ; and that every fpur, that could 
promote population, would be adminiftered. Thefe 
then, or fimjiar regulations, unavoidably taking place^ 
v/e fhould fee a material change in his fituation. We 
fhould fee him in poiTeffion of a little time to him- 
felf, and devoting it either to his own amufement^ 
or in the improvement of his little fpot, to his fu- 
ture advantage and fapport. We, fhould fee him, not 
chilled with horror at the fight of his proprietor as 
before, but fmiling with gratitude and joy. We fhould 
fee him legally engaging in the bands of connubial happi- 
nefs; while his wife would have time to nurfe and enjoy 
her child, not regretting that fhe had brought it into the 
world to inherit a life of perpetual mifery and woe, but to 
be av/itnefs of her nev/ fituation, and to fhare the change. 
Thus experiencing, on one hand, a diminution of their 
former rigours, and raifed to pofitive advantages on the 
other, they would both immediately be admitted to a cer- 
tain portion of happlnejs^ and their condition be confidera- 
bly improved. 

This change having once taken place, and great benefit 
having necelTariiy arifen to the planter from the adoption 
of it, there can be no difficulty in anticipating th.Q future 
fituation of the flave ; for it is natural to fuppofe, that if 
advantages fnould have been found to accrue to the plan- 
ter in proportion to his humanity, he would ftili proceed; 
and when that fyftem, which was the confequence of the 
abolition of the Have tr^de, had had its due operation, he 

would 



African Slave Trade. ioi 

would adopt a fecond ilill more lenient and equal. Every 
new indulgence of this kind vi^ould advance the flave In the 
fcale of focial life, and improve his condition. Every 
improvement of his condition vi^ould qualify him the more 
for the reception of ChrijVianlty aiLcl jrecdom \ and if ever 
thefe glorious events were to be brought to pafs, then 
would be the aera, in which happlnefs would be the moft 
extenfively diffufed in the colonies, and the eftate of the 
planter be produ£^ive of the greateft * gain. 

I come nov/ to the confequences which would refult to 
the ijlands by the abolition of the flave trade. — 7^hefe 
confequences would be truly valuable, as the iflands would 
be fafe and impregnable during the time of war. 

It is well known that the planters, at this period, have 
been in general in continual alarm. The fugitive Haves 
have never failed to make their incurfions, and to be ready 
to join the foe. Their own flaves on the plantations have 
been peculiarly ripe for a revolt, and have only waited for 
an opportunity of gratifying their revenge* In fliort, 
they have htcn v/ell alTured, that if the enemy could only 
have contrived to arm them, a general mafiacre would 
have taken place, and the illands have been loll. 

This will fhew, in a more confpicuous light, the great 
importance of the change that would take place in confe- 
quence of the abolition of the trade. In a few years all 
the flaves upon the iflands would be Creoksj and as every 
man has naturally an attachment to his native fpot, fo 
the Creole would have a partiality for thefe. In thefe 
iflands alfo would be his relatives and friends, his 
little property, his fpot of nutrition, and his home. He 
would fpeak the fame language as his mafter, contrail the 
fame habits, imbibe the fame prejudices. Thefe, and 



* Attempts have been made in a certain French colony^ for fome time 
paft, to bring the Haves by degrees into the enjoyment of liberty and 
property. And the progrcfs oi this eftablifhment tends to prove, that a 
iimilar fyftem, if general, would be not only conducive to the profperity 
of the coloTiy^ but alfo to the private intereji of the prefent proprietors of 
plantations. In America many flaves have been liberated. The confe- 
quence has been, that the face of the country has been altered, the 
lands in a higher ftate of cultivation, and the proprietor enriched. In 
Cochin China the fugar, which is wholly made there hy free men, can 
be aftbrded at one-Jeventh of the price, for which it h ipU, when made 
fey fla-ves. 

G 3 other 



IQ2 On the Impolicy of the 

other clrcumftances, would excite his alacrity, his yigi- 
lance, his courage, his exertions, and he would be found 
to the iflands a fteady and faithful protedor, and to the 
invaders a bitter and a formidable foe. 

To fhew that this is not merely ideal, or without 
foundation, I fhall relate a fa£l:, that happened during the 
late war. In the iiland of Barbadoes the greateft part of 
the flaves are Creoles* They are ufed in general with 
more humanity there than in the other iHands ; though their 
treatment is by no means fuch as they would experience, 
were the trade abolifhed. Notwithftanding this, fever^ 
of thern were fele£ted, and formed into a military corps. 
They were found to be vigilant, and ready, on every 
occafion : and no one inftance could be found on the 
whole ifland where a flave had abufed the confidence 
repofed in him, or had turned his arms to a bad purpofe. 

I have now enumerated the principal confequences that 
would unavoidably refult to the planters^ the Jlaves them- 
felves, and the ijlands^ from the abolition of the flave 
trade. I need not obferve, that they are fuch^^ as are 
highly important in themfelves, truly pleafing in the 
anticipation, and moft devoutly to be prayed for. 
Indeed, there is no profpe61:, that we are obliged to view 
at a diftance, that is fo charming and delightful. For let 
ijs fee the planter at a future period, not the tyrant and 
deftroyer, but the fhepherd and the guardian of his ilaves. 
Let us fee them looking upon him in return as the 
difpenfer of their bleffings ; gratefully acknowledging his 
favours, endeared to him from the ties of principle and 
gratitude. Let us fee them annually improving both in 
their temporal and religioiis ftate. Then fhall the chains 
of defpotifm be broken. TJie Daemon torture fhall 
throw her inftruments into the fea ; commerce extend her 
fwelling fails ; emba^-ralTments be no more ; fecurity and 
confidence eftablifhed ; a golden age, in fhort, reign in 
the colonial plains ; and a fpot, that was once the fcene 
of accumulated perfecution and murder, be the manfions 
of peace, fecurity, happinefs, and joy. 

If this defirable change then were to take place, as it 
inevitably muft ; if all thefe bleflings were to follow ; 
how zMi%ion-d\\y impolitick is Xh^JIave trade^ which is the 
^nly impediment to their reaU%ation y which, by holding up. 



African Slave Trade. 103 

to the planter the profpeft of an annual fupply, only 
encourages him to wafte and diilipate human life, and to 
be cruel; and which, by furnifhing him with people 
deprived of the natural rights of men, fills him frequently 
with alarm, and obliges him often to adopt a fyftem of 
difcipline and oppreffion, that will for ever hinder him 
from experiencing the folid advantages defcribede 



CHAP. II. 
SECTION I. 

The patrons of the Have trade having founded m 
argument, in fupport of their caufe, on the fatal confe- 
quences of its abolition to the colonies^ derive another 
from the baneful effects which would refult from it to this 
kingdom. 

They aflert firft^ that if fuch an eve/n^jvere to take 
place, it woidd annihilate a confiderahle branch of the 
revenue* 

No argument, perhaps, has been deemed of greater 
importance by the opponents of the abolition, than this. 
They have been ailiduous, both in their converfation and in 
their writings, to diffeminate it. They have never failed to, 
inention it too with their wonted confidence, and but too. 
many have implicitly admitted it without an inveftigation 
of the faft. It will be proper therefore to examine into 
the truth of their aflertion, and to fee how far the objec- 
tion, advanced by them, is valid. 

The lofs which the revenue might fuftain in confequence 
of the abolition of the {lave trade, could be effedled only 
in three ways. It might be fuppofed to fuffer, firft, by 
the lofs of duty on fuch goods as are ufually exported to 
Africa^ and the exportatiotf. of which^ on Juch an euenty 
would ceafe. This point I fhall immediately confider. 
The remaining two fhall be noticed in their proper place. 
To inveftigate this, it will be proper to enumerate the 
articles th^t are ufually exported from this country to the 

G 4 poail^ 



104 



On th£ Impolicy of thS 



coaft. Thefe may be divided Into three clafTes, namely, 
Britifh, Eaft-Indian, Eaft-Indian and Venetian con^ 
jointly. 

in the firft clafs may be reckoned 



Gunpowder j 


Pewter-ware 


Shot 


Earthen-vvare 


Guns 


Glafs 


Gun-flints 


Brandy 


CutlafTes 


Manilloes 


Knives 


Neptunes 


Brafs-pans 


Cottons 


Iron-bars 


Linens 


Lead-bars 


Woollens 


Copper-rods 


Fuftians. 


In the fecond cla 


ifs may be reckoned 


Blue cloths 


Chelloes 


Bravi^les 


Nicamees 


Bejutapants- 


Negampants 


Callic^es 


Romalls 


Cufhtaes 


Photaes 


Chintz 




In the tiilrd clal 


*s may be reckoned 


Arrangoes 


Coral 


Cowries 


Great bugle 


Amber beads 


Small bugle 



The articles mentioned in the firft clafs, being of the 
produ6^ion and manufafture of Great Britain, pay no 
^ duty on exportation, and of courfe, v/ere they never 
more to be carried to the coafl:^ the revenue could fuftain 
no injury by the change. 

Thofe in the fecond confifi: of fuch as are either pro- 
hibited, and neither pay duty nor receive drawback, or 
of fuch as have the whqle duty returned in cafe of 
exportation to Africa, 

* Printed cottons pay excife, which is; however, drawn back on 

csportationc 

Thofe 



African Slave Trade. 105 

Thofe In the third are all of them fubjecSl: to duty, but 
the * drawback is fo great, that, after the receipt of it, 
fcarcely fufEcient is left to pay for the proportion of falary 
of thofe in office, under whofe cognizance they fall. 

It is evident, therefore, that the revenue could not 
fuiFer at all by any lofs of duty on the goods exported from 
hence to Africa, wtvQ the trade abolifhed. 

The fecond w^ay, in which the revenue might be fup- 
pofed to fuftain a lofs, might be by a lofs of duty on fiich 
of the produSlions of Africa^ as are ufually imported from 
tbcyice into this kingdom^ and the importation of which would 
ceafe. 

A few words only will be neceflary to afcertain this 
point. The productions of Africa are brought to us by 
two different means of conveyance, namely, of the wood 
and of the flave veffels. The greater fliare of them is 
imported by the former, fo that whether the fiave trade 
were abolifhed or not, this proportion would ftill continue 
to be brought. If it were abolifhed, that part of them, 
which is now brought home by the latter, to the detriment 
of the fair trader upon the coaft, would fall in their pro- 
per channel. More wood velFels would be immediately 
iitted out, nor would any diminution whatever, either 
immediately or in future, be experienced by the re- 
venue in this injiance^ from the abolition oi the trade 
in ilaves. 

The third, and only remaining way in which it can be 
fuppofed that the national purfe would fuffer, mufl be by 
a lofs of duty on rum and fitgar^ both of v/hich being pro- 
duced by the toil of flaves, might either decreafe in 
quantity, or be annihilated in the iflands, were the trade 
abolifhed. 

* This win be feeu from the following ftatement. 

Duty* DraivbasK 

Arrangoes 7 for every ;^ 100 of the r -. r r 

Cowries, 5 real value thereof \ ^ 3^ ^3 4 ;C ^9 i6 o 
Beads Amber, 7 •• 

, Coral, }■ P^r lb. - 045 04a 

Bugle Small, per lb. - - 027 025 

iPugle Great, per lb. - - 017 016 

To this ftatement I may add, that fo far is the revenue from being 
|)enefited, that the bounties, paid out of it on goods exported to Africa, 
firnount to ten times mure ;han any duties which it receives. 

With 



2o6 On the Impolicy of the 

With refpecl to a diminution of the ufual quantity of 
thefe valuable articles, which would of courfe occafion a 
diminution of revenue, I apprehend there is no perfon fo 
extravagant as to fuppofe, that it could take place when 
the rifmg generation were grown up. It will be therefore 
proper to enquire firfl:, what would be the fituation of 
things, from the moment of the abolition of the flave 
trade, till the rifmg generation could be brought into 
employ. 

The age at which the young Creoles are ufually pufe 
into the field, is that of fifteen. This, therefore, is the 
fpace of time in which I am to inquire whether there 
would be any diminution of the articles of revenue before 
Specified. 

The firft queftion that feems naturally to occur on the 
occafion is this,— -Whether the number of labourers would 
be lefs in this than in any former period of an equal 
length ? 

It is very certain that there would be in the iflands, at 
the moment of the abolition, Creoles of every age, from 
one to fifteen,, ready to fill up in fuccefiion the places of 
many of thofe who would unavoidably be taken ofF within 
this period. It will be faid, however, that thefe would 
not be numerous enough of themfelves to fupply the whole 
deficiency by death. But I reply, that in confequence of 
the regulations, both in point of labour, food, and treat- 
ment, that would necefi^arily follow the abolition of the 
flave trade, the bills of mortality would be lefs crowded, 
and that the lives of all thofe flaves, at that time upon the 
iflands, would be confiderably prolonged. By means, 
therefore, of this protraction of human life on the one 
hand, which would render perl)aps only half the former 
number of recruits neceflary in a given time, and by 
means of this regular fucceffion of Creoles on the other, 
more of whom would live to come to maturity than in 
any former period of the fame length, there could be but 
little diminution of thefe articles from the diminution of 
cffe£live labourers in the colonies. 

But let us fuppofe, for a moment, that the number of 
labourers would be lefs : ftill no diminution of thefe arti- 
cles is neceflkry ; for a lefs iiumber, under tender regula- 

tionsj^ 



African Slave Trade. 



107 



tions, would do as mu^ch work as a greater, v/ithout them, 
in the fame time. It is Dot on the number, but on the 
condition, the ability, the wlllingnefs of the labourer, that 
the quantity of work depends. On eftates, where the lafh 
has been incefTantly applied, the Haves have univerfally 
donp much lefs in proportion, than upon thofe where 
they have met with indulgencies, and been treated 
like human beings. Such would be the cafe during this 
period, and if the number of flaves were to become lefs, 
by one-third^ than before, it is not neceflary that any 
diminution fhould take place, either in the quantity of 
fugar and rum, or in the revenue, that may be expedted 
by the ftate. 

Again. Let us fuppofe them to be reduced even to 
one-half of their former number, till the riiing generation 
were put into employ.—- Let the planters introduce ma^ 
chines of hufbandry, and one-half, or one-tenth, or even 
one-thirtieth^ would do as much work in the fame time as 
all of them together were able to do before, under 
their then fyftem of labour. 

. As a proof of this, (for it is not a bare conjecSiure,) I 
ihall feleit the two following paflages from * Mr. Long. 

'' It was found, fays he, that one plough, ufed on an 
^' eftate in the parifh of Clarendon, turned up as much 
^' ground in one day, and in a ?nuch better manner than 
^' one hundred negroes could perform with their hoes in 
'' the fame time." 

'' When the plant is made In the furrow, following the 
^' plough^ I think it demonftrable, that more ground can 
** be turned up and planted in this way in one day^ than 
*' can be holed and planted in the ufual way in three^ and 
^' with a tenth lefs number of able negroes." 

Such Is the language of Mr. Long, and It muft be 
evident, I think, to every Impartial perfon, both from 
thefe and the preceding obfervations, that the revenue 
CQuld not t poffibly fufFer by any diminution of the ufual 

quantity 

'* Long's Hiftpry of Jamaica, Vol. I. Page 449, 450. 

•f- Suppofe that their lives would not be protradled, that lefs work 
would be done in the fame time, that machines of labour would be ra- 
ther an hindrance than a gain, {till the deficiency might be made up by 
foreign fugar, (till the rifing generation were grown up) and the revenue be 

improved,. 



io8 On the Impolicy of the 

quantity of rum and fugar^ till the rifing generation were 
capable of being put into employ. It has appeared before, 
that it could not fufFer by any diminution of the exports to 
Africa, or imports from thence into this kingdom : and if 
it could fuftain no injury in either of the three ways now 
mentioned, I do not fee how it is poilibie that it could 
fufFer at all. 

Thus, in whatever point of view we confider the fub- 
jecE^, there could neceffarily be no diminution of the re- 
venue. But, on the other hand, when we come to con- 
fider the great prolongation of life, which muft refult 
from thofe regulations that the abolition of the flave trade 
muft introduce, the better condition of the flaves from 
the fame caufe, their greater zeal and alacrity, the truth 
of the maxim, that thofe, who are beft treated, univer- 
fally work the beft, and the extraordinary advantages of 
the introduction of machines of hulbandry, by which 
one-thirtieth only of the former ftrength would be requir- 
ed, it is 'Kx'^-^ prohahle that the revenue would be increafed, 
and it is certain that it could be made, under proper regu- 
lations, to receive a greater augmentation in this, than ia 
any former period of an equal length. 

Having now inquired what would be the fituatlon of 
the revenue, till the rifmg generation were put into 
employ, I ftiall inquire what its fituation would probably 
be after this period : for the more remote, as well as the 
lefs diftant confequences of the abolition of the flave trade, 
fhould be had in view. 

It is probable, that fome of the flaves, who were in 
bondage at the tirhe of the abolition, would be then alive ; 
but as many of thefe would be paft their labour, and the 
reft would be going off, I fhall content myfelf with hav- 
ing only mentioned them. The effeAive, or riling 
ftrength then on the iflands, would confift of Creoles. 
Thefe would be found, in a regular fucceffion, from the 
age of thirty to ojie. They would have been born too in 
the order of nature, that is, the fexes would have been 
properly proportioned by means of birth, which is not the 
cafe in the colonies at the prefent day. 

impro'ved. For this, from its cheapnefs, would bear a heavier duty, and 
\et come into our hands at a more reafonable rate than that from the 

Brltilh coionies. ^ 

Having 



African Slave Trade. 109 

Having this advantage then ; having, moreover, the 
advantages of a prolifick nature, of living in a climate to 
which they have been habituated from their infancy, and of 
being treated in an humane and tender manner, far beyond 
any of their predecefTors, they would from this period 
very rapidly increafe, and a much greater number of ilaves 
would be then found in the illands, than at any former 
time. This would evidently be the cafe. It is no fpecu- 
lative conje6lure. It is founded on the invariable rule of 
nature, on the immutable decrees of the Deity, that every 
fociety of people, among whom the fexes are properly 
proportioned, and common advantages are enjoyed, mujl 
increafe* 

Let us now confider the efFec9:s of this increafe. The 
planter, having more hands than before, will feek for 
employment for his fupernumeraries. He will feek for it, 
becaufe he will not fupport them in idlenefs, and becaufe 
his own intereft will be fo materially concerned. Two 
profpe^ls will then prefent themfelves, namely, the unprove- 
ment of the old land^ and the clearing and cultivation of the 
new. 

There are few eftates in the colonies, or indeed in any 
other part of the world, In which many more hands could 
not be employed to advantage, than are employed in them 
at prefent ; or which have arrived at that degree of culti- 
vation, to which they are capable of being brought. It 
is evident, therefore, in the firft cafe, that the fame fpot 
that produced a certain number of hogfiieads of fugar 
annually, would be made to produce more^ and that the 
revenue would derive a proportionate benefit from the 
change. This would be the firll natural confequence of 
the increafe. 

In the fecond cafe the advantages would be fimilar and 
great. The planter would dire6l a part of his agricultural 
ftrength to the clearing of new land, and the augmenta- 
tion of his eftate. In this refpe6t he has been hitherto 
confined : for the expence of pnrchafing new flaves has 
been fo heavy, and fo many of them have conftantiy died 
in the arduous employment, arduous not only in itfelfi but 
particularly to thofe who have been unufed to laboMr, that his 
attempts have very rarely been made but with lof^^ And have 



tio Oj^ the Impolicy of the 

often ruined him. The cafe, however, at the period now 
in view, would be reverfed. His * Creoles^ feafoned to 
the climate, and inured From their infancy to work, would 
perform it without its former weight, and would be able 
to realize his views without any of the difadvantages 
defcribed. 

Enabled then to put his plans into execution without 
any detriment to himfelf, let us confider the fecond con- 
fequence of the increafe. 

Every new piece of land, which he would clear and put 
into cultivation^ would produce an additional quantity of 
fuo-ar and rum. This additional quantity would pay its 
proportionate duty to the ilate ; and how far the revenue 
is capable of increafe, by thefe means, may be c\>nceived^ 
in fome meafure, from the following account. 

Acres of Land. 
In Jamaica alone are contained about 3,500,000 

There are already cleared, opened, and ap- ) ^^^ ^^^ 

plied to cultivation or pafture j ' 

The Savannahs include - - 250,000 

The rocky, unplantable partS) roads, river- 7 _^ ^^^ 

courfes, and gullies - 3 '^ ' 



iji50jOOO 



It appears from hence, that there remain in Jamaica 
alone, capable of cultivation, about 2,350,000 acres of 
land. Here then would be an ample field for fpeculation, 
for the employment of fupernumerary ilaves, and for an 
addition to the revenue. 

In fhort, if we confider the firfl confequence of the 
Increafe^ as vifible in the improvement of the old land, and 
the fecond, as vifible in the clearmg and cultivation of the 
newj and combine them, it v/ill appear, that a prodigious 
extenfion of revenue would unavoidably arife to this 
kingdom ; and that the abolition of the flave trade would 

* Native Jfrkam, (fays Mr. Long) un feafoned to the climate, and 
lets able than the Creoles to bear the toil of cutting doiun thick ivoods, and 
clearing frejh /««£/.— Long's Hiilory of Jamaied. Vol. I. Page 5z6. 

be 



African Slave Trade. hi 

be the means, in the courfe of time, of confiderably aug- 
menting its prefent opulence and power. 

Such would be the fituation of things in the colonies, 
were the trade abolifhed. Let us now, for a moment, 
turn our eyes to Africa^ and let us look at the profpecSt there. 

In the interval of time, from the rearing of the rifmg 
generation to the putting of them into employ, we fhould 
have been bufy in eftablifhing an honourable and civilizing 
commerce am^ong the natives there. We fhould have 
been fuccefsful in our attempts, becaufe we fhould have 
given them encouragement, (of which they are not infen- 
fible) and have embarked in it with emulation and zeal. 
We fhould have imported many of their variegated and 
valuable woods, their cotton, their rice, their indigo, their 
fpices, and, perhaps, articles neither known at the prefent 
day, nor to be credited were they known and mentioned. 
Many of the productions of Africa would bear a duty in 
a little time, and if fuch a duty were affixed to them on 
importation, they would neverthelefs come cheaper into 
our hands, than thole of the fame kind, if duty free, from 
another quarter. This improvement, therefore, which 
the revenue would derive in time from the new trade, is 
to be added to the account. 

To fum up the whole. It is evident, that the revenue 
could not poiTibly be diminifhed, in confequence of the 
abolition of the flave trade, till the rifmg generation were 
put into employ. It is probable that it would be in- 
creafed : and it is certain that it could be made, under 
proper regulations, to receive a greater augmentation in 
this, than in any former period of an equal length. But 
when the end of this period fliould have arrived, fuch aii, 
additional quantity of fugar and rum would be annually 
imported from the iflands, and fuch an additional number 
of articles from the coaft, that the revenue would arrive 
at a degree of extenfion, unknown In any former period, 
and not to be known till the riches of Africa are explored^ 
or a fyftem of humanity and population be adopted in our 
colonies. 

Thefe riches can never be difcovered, this fyflem never 
Introduced, but by the abolition of the trade in flaves. 

SECTION ir. 



112 On the Impolicy of the 



SECTION II. 

I hai'e ROW examined one of the fatal confequences that 
would, in the opinion of the patrons of the trade, unavoid- 
ably arkfe to this kingdom from its abolition. A fecond isj 
that if fuch an event were to take place, k -would annihi- 
late a confiderahle branch of our manufa5lure%. 

It is aftonifning to hear the exaggerated accounts that 
have been uniformly given of the exports of this country 
to the coaft of Africa for jflaves. One could fcarcely 
conceive that people, who wiflied to fupport their caufe, 
could have ventured to make alTertions, that but a little 
knowledge of the African trade muft immediately refute, 
but that" their audacity is to be equalled only by their 
ignorance, and that a bad caufe univerfally wants 
fupport. 

It has been afTerted by a perfon, who afFecls a confider- 
ahle knowledge of this trade, that goods, to the amount of 
two millions and an half^ are annually flipped to Africa ; 
and it is alTerted with no lefs confidence by the fame, that 
the cargo of every fhip is worth, on an average, twelve 
thoujdnd pounds, Thefe, and other abfurdities, have been 
daily obtruded into our ears. The publick prints have 
had their fhare in proclaiming them ; and the importance: 
of the African trade has been founded from all quarters. 

It is very fortunate, hovv^ever, that but a few points, 
well known, will be able to check thefe exaggerated 
accounts. The average value of a flave upon the coair, 
the number that are annually purchafed, and the average- 
number carried in one fhip, are fufficient documents for 
the refutation of the whole. 

On a fuppofition then that goods to the amount of two 
millions and an half are annually Ihipped to the coaft, and 
that one flave with another, including men, women, and 
boys, can be purchafed by manufafbures of the value of 
twenty pounds, ^which is too high an allowance) even on 
fuch a fuppofition, the Englifli muft annually purchafe one 
hundred and twenty- five thoufand flaves ; that is, they rauft 
purchafe two-thirds more than they really do, or more 

than 



African Slave Trade, 



n 



tnan all the Europeans together. Including themfelves, from 
the river Senegal to the utmoft limits of Angola. 

Again, on a fuppofition that every cargo is worth 
twelve thoufand pounds, it will appear from his own data,. 
that two hundred and eight vefTels muft be annually em- 
ployed in this trade, and that each of thefe liiufl: tranfport 
Jix hundred flaves. In other words, the Engllfh muft 
carry more by two hundred and forty in each fhip than 
were ever known to be the average number carried by any 
number of ihips in any year. 

Such are the admirable arguments, and fuch is the 
knowledge of the fupporters of this trade. If they believe 
what they write, they muft be ignorant indeed i If they 
are better Informed, they muft write againft their own 
conviction, and muft be confidered as Impoftors, taking 
an advantage of the Ignorance of the world, to ferve an 
execrable caufe. 

The real value of the goods exported to Africa In the 
year 1786, was about eight hundred thoufand pounds', I 
fpeak from good authority; I believe, as good as can be 
obtained. The account too is confiftent with Itfelf. It 
may be checked either by the number of flaves purchafed 
in that year, or by their value upon the coaft. It will- 
ftand either of thefe ordeals ; which is not the cafe with 
any of the monftrous accounts delivered by the advocates 
• for the trade. 

This being the whole amount of the exports, and more 
than one-third of them being of Venetian and Eaft-Indiaa 
manufacture conjointly, the real value of the Britifh ma- 
nufactures fhlpped to the coaft in that year may be called 
fve hundred thoufand pounds* This is the prodigious 
branch, that would be annihilated by the abolition of the 
flave trade, being only one-fifth of the fum its advocates 
have reported^ and fcactered in too many places to be felt^ 
and too infignificant to ftop the abolition for a moment, 
even were It wholly loft. 

But I deny that the whole of it would be loft were the 
ilave trade immediately abolifhed. The flave veflels bring 
home many of the productions of Africa annually, fuch 
as ivory, palm-oil, long and malaguetta-pepper, part of 
which is paid for out of the amount of the Britifh mana- 
H fa6ture-s 



114 On the Impolicy of the 

failures jull mentioned. Whatever portion, therefore, of 
the exported goods was before expended in the purchafe of 
thefe, by means of the flave velTels now mentioned, would 
ftill be expended by means of new wood-veffels, fitted out 
for their reception. 

I aflert farther, that if, on the abolition of the flave 
trade, we were to embark with ardour in the new inter- 
courfe that has been pointed out, and government would 
aflif^ the plan, by encouraging the infant-fettlement at 
Sierra Leon, by recalling the prefent African Gover- 
nors, by appointing others on the coaft v/hofe princi- 
ples and opinions would be favourable to the defign, 
by directing the cultivation of every little fpot in the 
vicinity of the forts, (which would fhew an example to 
the natives; and by other means, the annual exports from 
this country to Africa would foon reach their prefent 
height, and a foundation be laid for fuch an extenfive 
commerce, as would take them ofF, at a future period, in 
a quantity hitherto unknown. 

That the Africans v/ould foon engage in fuch a line of 
conne6lion, is evident for many reafons. Firfl, becaufe 
they have acquired fuch a tafle for our manufa6tures, that 
they could not eafily relinquifh them ; and it is clear that 
they could not obtain them_, at leafl for a length of time, 
to the extent of their prefent demands, by other means. 

Secondly, becaufe they have readily embarked in any 
new commercial plan that has been pointed out, and 
we have a right to argue from what has once been to what 
may again be. 

Thirdly, becaufe the merchant in this line, requiring 
lefs credit than the flave merchant, buying his goods five 
per cent, cheaper, employing lefs hands in one vefTel, and 
knowing that his veffel would lafl * twice the time of the 
other, could afford the exported articles at a cheaper rate : 
and the Africans, like other people, are too fenfible of 
their own intereft, not to choofe that fyftem of commerce 
which would be mofl advantageous, were it pointed out. 
This kind of intercourfe then being once eflablifhed, 

* It is aftonifhing what an effedl the heat and ftench, arifing from 
.the flaves confined between the decks, have upon the timbers of the 
veflels. This effedl is fo great, that a flave veflel is confidered at Liver- 
pool as lafting only half the time of aaotber. 

let 



African Slave Trade. 115 

let us mark the confequences. The Have trade takes 
annually from Africa a prodigious number of its inhabi- 
tants. By the abolition of it, a lefs number would be 
taken away, or, which is the fame thing, a greater num- 
ber would be added, fo that from this circumftance alone, 
there would be an additional confiimption of our manufac- 
tures within the fa7ne fpace , 

The flave trade too has been hitherto an infuperable 
impediment to the civilization of the Africans : but the 
new commerce would have a contrary effect. It would 
gradually change their laws, which are now moflly 
adapted to the former. It would gradually alter their 
opinions and habits. It would foften and polifh their 
manners, and would bring them to a ftate of refinement, 
though not immediately great in itfelf, yet great in com- 
parifon of their former ftate. This civilization would be 
productive of the moft beneficial efFe6ls to ourfelves : for 
in proportion as we civilize a people, we increafe their 
wants^ and we fliould create therefore, from this circum- 
ftance alone, another fource of additional covfumption of 
our manufa^ures^ even v/ithin t\iefa?nefpace. 

This being the cafe, ineftimable would be the advan- 
tages which the kingdom would experience from the 
abolition of the trade in flaves. But if to thefe confide- 
rations we add, that the new intercourfe, being eflabliihed 
on a principle of greater gain, would extend itfelf every 
year, would make its way into the interiour country, and 
that in the very exercife of it, nation after nation would 
be civilized, it is evident, that there would be ?l perpetually 
growing demand for our manufafiiures, and that the con- 
fumption of them in Africa would arrive at a degree of 
extenfion, v/hich none but the moft comprehenfive minds 
can be capable of conceiving. 

Such, in time, would be the fituation of the demand for 
our manufaftures on the coaji of Jfrica-^ were the flave 
trade abolifhed : nor would that in the colonies be lefs 
pleafmg. The great Increafe of cultivators, that would 
unavoidably arife there in confequence of the abolition, 
would of courfe occafion a great increafe of demand for 
our manufactures. Their condition too being improved, 
and their wants multiplied, they would demand them in 
H 2 greater 



ii6 On the Impolicy dv thk 

greater abundance, and I need hardly add, that they would 
demand them of a better fort. 

Nor would neceffary or ornamental apparel, or domef- 
tick utenfils, or articles of fancy, be the only Britlfh 
commodities for which the demand would increafe there. 
When the wafte lands were put into cultivation,. new 
fcenes would be opened, and new wants created. The new 
labourers muft have their bills, their axes, and their hoes. 
There muft be new materials for building, new ftills and 
mill-cafes, new locks and ftaples, new iron work for 
machines, and many other articles, too numerous to be 
particularly defcribed. All thefe muft be purchafed, kept 
in repair, and renewed : and they would afford to the 
Britilh manufa61:urer an additional and permanent employ. 

In fhort, there are few fubjefts more pleafmg in the 
contemplation than this. And fo far would the abolition 
of the flave trade be from annihilating a confiderable branch 
cf our inaymfa^ures^ that it would open many additional 
fources^ both in Africa and the colonies^ for their confump- 
tion, and would procure a vent, in the courfe of time, for 
fuch a quantity, as, if compared with the prefent branch 
of them exported there, would render it infignificant and 
mean. 



SECTION III. 

The patrons of the flave trade have confidered the 
annihilation of a branch of our revenue, and the annihi- 
lation of a branch of our manufadlures, as two of the 
fatal confequences that would arife to this kingdom from 
its abolition. There is yet a third. It is faid, that if 
fuch an event were to take place, the different towns 
concerned in this trade would, from the variety of diftrefs 
that would be occafioned in them, receive a cotiftderabk 
Jhock, 

To invefligate this point, I fliall divide the cities, 
towns, and villages, that have any conne£lion with this 
trade, into two kinds, namely, manuf a during and com^ 
merciahy and I fhall fuppofe for a moment the abolition of 
the trade to have taken place • 

With 



African Slave Trade. ny 

With refpec^ to the manufa5lunng towns, there are 
none, where the inhabitants work folely for the African 
trade. The moft confpicuous is Manchefter, which 
fupplies it annually with goods, almoft to as great an 
amount as all the reft of them put together. The next 
is Birmingham. In each of thefe are diftin6i: houfes for 
this trade, and which have no conne6i:ion v/ith any other.. 

That the tov/n of Manchefter would receive a fhocic 
by the abolition of the fiave trade, though the value of 
the goods, annually furnifhed for it, is great, is too 
abfurd not to be riduculed by thofe, who are acquainted 
with the nature, fituation, or extent of the manufadlures 
of that important place. 

It is certain, that if fome particular arts in this king- 
dom were to be fupprefled, thofe who have been brought 
up to them would be deftitute for a time. They could 
not become artifts dire6lly in another line, and, till they 
could turn their hands to fome other kind of employ, they 
v/ould fufFer. But this is not the cafe with the labouring 
manufadlurer of Manchefter for the African trade. The 
fame perfon who works for this could immediately turn 
his hand to the different branches of manufacture now 
there. At this moment there are many infant arts to 
receive them, and more than fufficient fcope to employ 
that capita], which is now in the African, in other foreign 
markets . Nor need tht-r e be, nor is it likely that there would, 
a fmgle labouring manufadlurer, who would fuffer by the 
abolition of the Have trade, fo long as he was willing to 
work. 

With refpe£l to Birmingham, the goods which are 
made there for the African trade, are unworthy of com- 
parifon in point of value with thofe which are made at 
Manchefter for the fame. They confift principally of 
guns. But the whole branch of it is fo infignificant in 
itfelf, and bears fo mean a proportion to the general ma- 
nufaitory of the place, that the change of fafhion only in 
a button has occafioned, and will ftill occafion, greater, 
diftrefs to the labouring manufacturers there, than the 
abolition of the whole trade in Haves. 

If the reader wifticd to have thefe affertions confirmed^ 
I might ftate to him, that when the Have trade began 
H 3 tc;^. 



ii8 On the Impolicy of the 

to excite the attention of the publick, a meeting of the 
inhabitants was called by advertifement both at Manchef- 
ter and at Birmingham on this fubje6l. That thefe meet^ 
ings were numeroufly attended. That they confifted of 
the moft refpe^lable perfons, in point of property and 
character, in the two tov/ns. That there was not a 
difientient voice in either of them on the occafion : but 
that committees were formed, and ftill continue much to 
their honour to exift, to efFe6i: the abolition of the trade. 

In the reft of the manufa^uring towns the different 
branches for the African market are very fmall, and bear 
no kind of proportion to the different manufa6tories of the 
place. The fame houfe too, which fupplies the African, 
is connected with other trades ; fo that if the flave trade 
were immediately abolished, no inconvenience could be 
felt in thefe, except in the lofs of fale of fuch chains or 
Inftruments of torture, as are ready made : and it is only 
to be lamented, that the fabricators of thefe would fuffer 
fo little," as they would do, by the change. 

It appears then from hence, that the manufacturing 
towns of this kingdom that are concerned in the African 
trade, would not receive that confiderable fhock, which 
it is pretended would be occafioned by its abolition. On 
the other hand we are to confider, that veHels would flill 
go to the coaft, and would go for fuch of its produ61:ions 
as the flave vefTels formerly took av/ay; and if to this 
confideration we add, that a new trade, fuch as I have 
defcribed in the firft part of my work, might be eftablifhed 
there, fuch an additional number of manufacturers v/ould 
be foon employed, and fuch an extra accumulation of 
wealth arife to the different towns, as would give them a 
much greater fhare of importance, even than they poffefs 
at the prefent day. By the people of Manchefter, how^ 
ever, the advantages would be particularly felt. Not to 
mention a larger exportation of manufactures than before 
to the fame coafl, the fmgle circumftance of obtaining 
their cotton from Africa would be ineftimably great. 
This cotton, if we except the Perfian to which it is equal 
in rank, is the fineft of any on the globe. It is this un- 
common finenefs that would render it fo peculiarly valua- 
ble : and of fuch importance v^ould it be in the eye of the 

Manchefter 



African Slave Trade. 119 

Manchefter manufafturer to obtain it, that there is no 
event which he could wifh for, in point of intereft, 
more than the abolition of the trade in ilaves. 

Having taken into confideration the manufaSlnrlng^ I 
come novi^ to the commercial towns that are concerned in 
this trade. Thefe are only three, namely, London, Brif- 
tol, and Liverpool. 

The great cities of London and Briflol do not polTefs 
together in this employ fo many as forty vefTels. To 
fuppofe, therefore, that any kind of diftrefs could be felt 
by the total fecefiion of thefe, or any kind of ftagnation 
take place, would be to expofe myfelf to derifion : for I 
might as well fuppofe, that if forty drops of water were 
to be taken from a bucket, they would be miffed. 

That the town of Liverpool would be greatly affe£led 
by the blow, though it employs fo many veflels, and has 
a greater fhare in the trade than London and Briftol to- 
gether, is a pofition, the abfurdity of which may be foon 
ihewn. 

It has long been a mifcake, that the town of Liverpool, 
which w^as formerly but a fifhing village, is indebted for 
its prefent grandeur and opulence to the Have trade. No 
opinion was ever more erroneous than this. I fhall there-, 
fore mention fome of the principal caufes that have con- 
tributed to bring it into its prefent flate. 

The firft has been the free admlflion of firangers^ in 
confequence of a politick exemption from many of thofe 
dues, to which, as Grangers, they would have been liable 
in another place. 

This has encouraged many to fettle there. To fupply 
thefe again, in all their refpeitive wants, others have ad- 
ditionally come. Thus a conftant addition of new fami- 
lies has been made to the original or the old. 

Nor have lefs advantages been experienced in another 
point of view, by the fame means. Each of the new 
fettlers has brought v\^lth him his different purfuits and 
fchemes ; has had his emulation ; has fupported an home 
or a foreign trade, according as his connections lay. 

To this free admidion then of ftrangers, which has 
induced many to fettle, unfettered, with their different 
purfuits, is to be attributed, on one hand, an increafe of 

H 4 thci 



%2Q On the Impolicy of the 

the population, and, on the other, of the mercantile inter-? 
courfe of the place, 

A fecond caufe of the rife and grandeur of Liverpool 
has been the fait trade. 

Salt, which ma)^ be confidered as its ftaple commodity, 
and which is colle6i:ed from the neighbouring mines, is 
brought there in fuch quantities as almoft exceed belief. 
Many veiTels are employed in the exportation of this 
article. This has not failed to increafe the navigation of 
the place. 

But the increafe of the navigation and opulence of 
Liverpool is to be attributed to it in another way, which 
will be beft feen by the following account. 

Some merchants of the north, hearing a few years back, 
that this article could be purchafed cheaper at Liverpool 
than at any other place, fent two or three of their vefTels 
for a fupply. The captains of thefe, on their return 
home, reported, that all thofe nations of the north, who had 
no falt-works of their ov/n, could not only lay in the 
article in abundance and cheaper there, but could alfo lay 
in their afTortments of tobacco^ fu^ar^ and other A?nerican 
produce^ as well as at the London or other markets ; and 
till this time they had, from their ignorance of the power 
of Liverpool to fupply them in this refpe6l, been confined 
to thefe. 

Confidering, therefore, that it was much more to their 
advantage to go to Liverpool for one of the articles de- 
fcribed, and that they fared as v/ell in the reft, it was their 
intereft upon the whole to declare in favour of the place. 
Thefe and other veffels came afterwards pouring in for 
their fait, and laid in their foreign aiTortments at the fame 
time. This immediately gave rtfe^ or rather an addition 
to two foreign trades^ namely, the IVeJi- Indian and Ame- 
rican^ to fupply them. 

The fait trade therefore has had an important fhare in 
the prefent grandeur of Liverpool. It has not only in- 
creafed its navigation by the exportation of that article, 
its ftaple commodity, but alfo its navigation and opulence, 
by inducing vgfTels, on account of its cheapnefs, to refort 
there, which, but for this extraordinary cheapnefs, would 
have gone to another place. Thefe veffels pay their 

dockage^ 



African Slave Trade. 121 

dockage, are often in want of repairs, and by taking off 
a part of the foreign imports of Liverpool, contribute 
towards its opulence, and the fupport of a foreign trade. 

It may, perhaps, be not amifs to introduce a circum- 
ftance here, which may be confidered, in fome meafure, 
as confirming what has been hitherto faid on this fubjecl. 
Debating focieties were held in Liverpool, as in London, 
in the winter of the year 1786, but with this difference, 
that many more refpe6lable people exercifed their oratory 
in the former, than in the latter place. At one of thefe 
the caufes of the prefent grandeur and opulence of the 
town of Liverpool were the fubje6t of difcuffion for the 
night. Many merchants, and one or two of great refpec- 
tability and commercial knowledge, joined in the debate; 
and though the flave trade was advanced by a perfon there 
to have been the principal caufe, he was obliged to 
r-elinquifh his pofition, as wholly falfe ; and it was deter- 
mined, that other circumftances, but particularly ^^ free 
admtjfion of Jlr angers^ and the fait trade^ had been the 
means of the prefent grandeur and opulence of the town. 

A third caufe of the wealth and importance of Liver- 
pool has been the prodigious increafe of the population of 
Lancafhire. The great increafe of inhabitants there has 
not failed to increafe the trade of the former place, to fup- 
plythem with fugar,* wine, and other foreign commodities. 
To fuch a degree of populoufnefs has this county already 
arrived, that it is fuppofed to contain as many inhabitants 
as Middlefex, though London is included in the compu- 
tation. Such a body as this will ever command and fup- 
port an extenfive foreign trade. 

A fourth caufe has been the very rapid and great exten- 
fion of the manufactures of Manchefter. The people 
there, inftead of procuring their cotton as formerly, vv^hen 
the demand for it was fmall, by the way of London, pro- 
cure it now chiefly from Liverpool ; and inftead of fending 
their manufactures as before to London for exportation, 
export them to foreign parts through the fame medium. 

* I am credibly Informed, that about fifty years ago, the whole con- 
fumption of Manchefter did not exceed tivo pipes nf wine annually, which 
•were brought on horfes fromPrefton — a quantity not equal to the individual 
<tonfumption of many of its prefent opulent and liofpi table manufafturers. 

Thus 



122 On the Impolicy cf the 

Thus by procuring the article when raw, and exporting it 
when manufa6tured, by means of Liverpool, they have 
given birth to a new merchandize, have increased the 
foreig-n trade, and contributed to the riches of the place. 

A^iifth is to be attributed to the various canals which 
have been lately made, and with v/hich that part of the 
country is interfe6ted. There is now a communication 
from Liverpool by water to various parts inland, aud in- 
deed to the very oppofite fea. Whole counties, and dif- 
fl:ri6l:s of people, that were formerly fupplied with foreign 
produce from other places, are nov/ fupplied with it from 
this. This new intercourfe, by the means now ftated, 
has contributed, perhaps of all others the moft largely, 
to increafe the trade and opulence of the town. 

Thefe are fome of the principal caufes of that commer- 
mercial importance which we fee in the tovvm of Liver- 
pool at the prefent day \ and I have made a digreiiion in 
relating them for the purpofe only of removing an opinion, 
long prevalent, that this town, which was formerly a 
lifhing village, is indebted for her prefent rank to the 
profecution of the flave trade. 

To return. That Liverpool would receive a con- 
fiderable ihock by the abolition of the trade in flaves, 
is improbable, when we confider thofe refources, that 
have been now mentioned ; thofe natural refources, I 
may fay, v/hich are infeparably connected with it, and 
which nothing but fome great and unexpe6led revolution 
can take away. But as there are fome who would afTert, 
that the feceffion of eighty fhips from this trade would 
occafion great embarraflment and confuHon in the place, 
that the proprietors would not know how to employ them, 
that fhipwrights, carpenters, and others, would want 
work, and experience diirrefs, I (hall make d, few obfer^ 
vations more on the fame fubje£t. 

When the (lave ihips have difcharged their cargoes in 
the Weft-Indies, they prepare for returning home. Some 
of them take in a fmall portion of Weft-Indian produce, 
others not, according as they can get it, or have time to 
ftay. 

From hence it is manifeft, that the produce of the 

Weft Indies comes to us by two means of conveyance : 

lirft, by means of thofe vefleis that are employed in going 

^ ^ backwards 



African Slave Trade, 



123 



backwards and forwards for tills purpofe only, and which 
I may diftinguiih by the name of veiTels in the natural 
trade : fecondly, by means of the flave veffels. Thefe 
carry the overplus, or fuch produce as remains over and 
^bove that which the veffels in the natural trade take ofF 
in the fame time. 

This overplus is regular; that is, a certain number of 
flave veffels will uniformly take away from the Weft-In- 
dies a certain quantity of their produce in a given time. 
To afcertain therefore how much this overplus is, will be 
to afcertain the opening that would prefent itfelf, or the 
number of Liverpool flave fliips that would fmd immediate 
employ, were the trade abolifhed. 

The following is an account of fuch Weft-Indian pro- 
duce as v/as brought home by fifty veffels of that defcrip- 
tion, taken promifcuouOy, or as they returned after each 
other into port. 



152 tierces j 8 barrels 

4 hhds. j — 

153a bags 951 pockets | S2packs 

4 cafks I 8 boxes I 9 bar. 

601 hhds. 



• keg 
80 bags 



1042 planks 

3480 pieces | 8988 pounds 



Sugar 758 hogfneads 

Rum 102 puncheons 

Cotton 1364 bales 

Indigo 4 tierces . , ^ , 

Coffee 18 puncheons 601 hhds. J5 tierces i3&bar. 

Sarfaparilla 126 bundles j | 

Pimento i hogfliead % tierces | 2 barrels 7 bags 

Ginger 3 puncheons 

Pepper 77 puncheons 

Tortoife-fhell 11 barrels 

Logwood 511 tons 

Mahogany 151 logs 

Nicaragua wood 469 tons 

Fuftick 557 tons 

Lignum Vitse 50 tons 

I apprehend, that^v Have vefTels, the amount of whofe 
cargoes on their return from the Weft Indies has been 
fpecified as above, will be quite fufScient, in point of 
number, to ferve as a ground work for any calculation on 
this fubjea. This being fuppofed, I fhali ftate that the 
produce above defcribed is fufiicient to employ 4000 tons 
of fhipplng, that the number of veffels that failed from 
Liverpool to the coaft of Africa in the year 1787 were 
about eighty, that they meafured 14,012 tons, and that it 
follows from tliefe data, that there would be an immediate 
opening in the Weft India trade for twenty-three fliips of 
tl^e fame average burthen as the flave veffels : add to this, 

that 



124- On the Impolicy of the 

that as the produ6l:ions of the coaft, annually brought to 
Liverpool by the latter, would make alfo an opening in 
the wood trade for five more, there would be an imme- 
diate employment for twenty-eight of thofe of its vefTels 
that are now employed in the flave trade. 

With refped: to the reft, the growing refources of Li- 
verpool, and the new trades that prefent themfelves, would 
engage many, and it is probable, from the adventurous 
fpirit of the people there, that there would not be, at the 
end of twelve months from the abolition, ten veflels out 
of employ ; a number which has often been withdrawn 
from this trade in one year, and the withdrawing of which 
has been too iniignificant to be felt. 

It is evident therefore that the town of Liverpool could 
not poilibly feel a fliock by the abolition of the flave trade. 
This abolition, on the other hand, would prepare the way 
for a new commercial eRablifliment on the coaft ; and if 
fuch a trade, in all its various branches, were eftaWilhed 
there, as is capable of being introduced, not only the na^ 
vigation, but the opulence and importance of Liverpool 
would be carried, by many degrees, beyond their prefent 
extent ; nor is it eafy to fay at what diftance a line could 
be drawn from their prefent bounds, to v/hich they could 
not be made, from the vail and inexhauftible refources of 
Africa, to arrive in time. 

To fum up the contents of the three laft fe£lions. — If 
we confider that the revenue could not poffibly be dimi- 
nifhed by the abolition of the flave trade, but that, in the 
courfe of time, it would be inevitably increafed; if we 
confider that the exportation of our manuf azures to Africa 
might be diminilhed for a year or two, but only to recover 
its former height, and then to proceed to a degree of 
extenfion, almoft incredible, if compared with that at the 
prefent day ; and if again we confider that the manufac^ 
turing and commercial towns of this kingdom would be fo 
far from receiving a fhock, that they would derive in fu- 
ture the moft important advantages from the change ; then 
is the flave trade, additionally impolitick^ for as much as its 
abolition could not be immediately injurious, but would be 
attended, in a little time, in all the inftances now men-» 
tionedj with the happiefl efFedts, 

CHAP. IIL 



African Slave Trade. 125 



CHAP. III. 

It is not improbable, but that fome of the advocates 
for llavery may ftop here, and raife the following objedlion 
to fome of the principal afTertions that have been made 
in the fecond part of the work. 

<' You have faid, that if the flave trade were abolifhed, 
the planters would breed from their prefent ftock, that the 
revenue could not poffibly be diminifhed, and that the 
manufa61:uring and commercial towns would feel its anni- 
hilation fo little, as to be almoft infenfible of the change. 
But this is only a matter of fpeculation. Others, who 
have thought on the fame fubje6t, have come to a different 
conclufion. It is by fafts alone that we ought to be guided 
in a matter that is of fo much importance as the prefent 
cafe." 

To this I reply, that I will meet their objedion, and 
that I will reft thefe confequences of the abolition of the 
Have trade, as far as a reference can be had, upon fails 
alone. 

There was a time, during the late war, when the flave 
trade may be confidered as having been nearly abolifhed. 
This is the proper time for a reference of this kind ; and 
that fuch a time is to be found will be evident from the 
following account. 

In the year 1772 failed from the different f 

ports of Great Britain for the Coaft of V 175 veffels. 
Africa - - , 3 

1773 - - 151 

1774 - - - 167 

1775 - - , 152 

1776 .- - 101 

1777 - - 58 

1778 - - 41 

1779 - - 28 

It appears from this account, that in the year 1782, 
the year preceding the war, one hundred and fevcnty-fve 
veffels were fitted out at the different ports of Great 

Britain 



126 On the Impolicy of the 

Britain for the coaft of Africa, and that In the year 1779 
they were reduced to twenty- e/gbt. The flave trade, 
therefore, may be confidercd as having been nearly abo- 
liflied in this period. Now, we may all of us know, if 
we inquire, what were the effects of withdrawing, in the 
courfe of fix years, one hundred and forty- feven veflels from 
this trade. If it fliould appear that thefe effefts were not 
detrimental, that the planter bred from his flock, that the 
revenue was not diminifhed, that the different towns be- 
fore mentioned were in as flourifliing a condition in the 
year 1779, when the African trade was leali, as in the 
year 1772, when it was at its greateft height, then it 
may be concluded, that the reafoning in the preceding 
chapters is true, and that fa^is^ as well as reafoning, 
evince, that none of thofe fatal eftcvSl?, foreboded by the 
advocates for flavery, are to be apprehended by the abo- 
lition of the trade. 

To begin with thefe efFeiSls. Nothing Is more certain 
than that the planters, at the beginning of the war, fore- 
feeing that their ufual fupplies would be cut off, or, in 
other words, the flave trade annihilated, changed the 
fyllem of management on their plantations, and that they 
bred from their then flock. The cfFe6tsx)f their condu6l, 
in the encouragement of population, are vifible at the 
prefent day; for out of 4.50,000 llaves, to be reckoned on 
our iflands, 350,000 of thefe are Creoles. 

It is clear alfo, that a branch of the revenue was not 
annihilated during that period of the war, of which I have 
before fpoken. 

^;^:rd1/trES;d"^'"^ } ^'766,4.. cwt. of ..gar. 



1773 


i5733>793 


1774 


1,963,578 


1775 


1,940,059 


1776 


1,669,071 


1777 


15336.037 


1778 - 


1,404,995 


1779 


1,441,943 



From hence we colletSl, that in the year 1772, when 
the African trade was at its height, 1,766,422 cwt. of 

fugar 



African Slave Trade. .127 

fugar was imported into this country, and that 1,441,94-:^ 
cwt. was imported, when the trade was nearly loft. A 
branch therefore of the revenue ft ill remained. But it 
will be faid, that the quantity of fugar imported in the 
year 1772, was certainly much greater than that in the 
year 1779. I allow it. But I reply, that in this, and 
the two preceding years, the enemy had colle61:ed their 
ftrength, that the difference of importation is to be afcribed 
to captures, and that lefs fugar was not made, though lefs 
was brought to market by the chance of war in the year 
1779 than in the year 1772, notwithftanding that 07ie 
hundred and forty-ftvcn veflels had been withdrawn from 
the African trade. 

I come now to confider the fituation of the manufac- 
turing and commercial towns at the two periods affigned. 

In the year 1772, the manufadlurers of Manchefter 
worked for an hundred and fevenly-five veftels. In the 
year 1779 they worked only for tiveniy- eight. Notwith- 
ftanding this, there were none of them out of employ. 
They had engaged themfelves in other branches of ma- 
nufacture, and the trade of Manchefter was in a more 
flouriftiing fituation in the latter than in the former 
period ; a fa6t, which many of its refpedable inhabitants 
can teftify. 

With refpect to Liverpool, * a few obfervations will 
be fufficient. 



TABLE I. 



the year 1772 failed from Liverpool for 7 ^^^ .rplT^Tc 


the coaft of Africa 


- 


r 


1773 


- 


105 


1774 


- 


92 


1775 


- 


81 


1776 


tm 


S7 


1777 


- 


3^ 


1778 


- 


26 


1779 


- 


II 



* 1 omit London and Brlftol, as having had an Inconfiderablc /hare In 
the trade, 

TABLE IT. 



128 OxN? xkE Impolicy of the 



TABLE IL 

In the year 1772 the dock-duties of 7 /- 
Liverpool amounted to - j ^* 455 

1773 - - 4725 

1774 - - 4580 

1775 - - 5384 

1776 - - 5064 

1777 - - 4610 

1778 - - 4649 

1779 - - 4957 

From thefe tables it appears, that when Liverpool had 
cne hundred vefTels In the African trade, the dock-dutlefe 
amounted to £, 4552, and that vi^hen thefe veflels were 
reduced to eleven^ the dock-duties rofe to ^.4957. Other 
fadls, of a fimilar nature, might be added here, but that 
it is too well known that Liverpool was in a more 
flourifhing fituation in the year 1779, than in the year 
1772 ; that there was no want of employ; and that none 
of thofe confequences were realized, which are foreboded 
by the patrons of the trade. 

It is manifeft from the general fketch now given, that 
we have feen, during the late war, what would be the 
efFe61:s of abolifhing the flave trade ; for no lefs than oHe 
hundred and forty -f even veffels were taken out of it during 
that period, whereas there are only one hundred a7id thirty- 
feven in employ at the prefent day ; and we have a right to 
infer, that if the revenue, and manufaduring and com^ 
mercial towns, did not then fuffer by withdrawing fo great 
a number from the trade, they would hardly now fuffer by 
withdrawing a lefs. The reafoning, therefore, contained 
in the three preceding chapters of the fecond part of the 
work, will ftand good, till the fads, mentioned in this, 
Ihall be difproved ; and I am too well fatisfied of their 
authenticity not to know that they cannot be contradlded. 



CHAP, IV, 



African Slave Trade. 129 



CHAP. IV. 

The confequences, that are conficlered as likely to refulc 
from the abolition of the flave trade, have been hithertci 
canvafled under two heads, namely, fuch as would fe~ 
rioufly affe61: the colonies^ and fuch as would ferioufly af- 
fe6l this kingdom. There is yet another to be examined^ 
but of a different complexion from the former. It is 
faid, that " if the Englifh abolifh the Have trade, the 
" French will take it up, and that the latter (politically 
" fpeaking) will derive great advantages from the 
*' meafure." 

That the French would take It up, If the Engllfb 
abolifhed It, Is, like moft of the affertlons of the advocates 
for flavery, but a bare conjecture ; notwithflanding that 
it is afTumed and delivered with as much confidence as if 
it were a fa6t. 

There are many circumftances that warrant me in 
aflertlng, that the French would be unable to take it up^^ 
were they fo inclined \ but that they would even continue 
it is improbable. 

Firft, becaufe a foclety has been lately eftabllfhed in 
France, on the fame principle as that of London, for the 
purpofe of effecting the abolition of the flave trade among 
the French ; and I affert with equal pleafure and con- 
fidence, that fome of the firft people in France have fhewn 
themfelves heartily difpofed to attend to the object of their 
inftitution. 

Secondly, becaUfe if no fuch humane motives impelled 
the French, as are difcoverable among them, they would 
hardly give us the credit of abolifhing the flave trade, how- 
ever we might deferve it, upon the principle of humanity. 
They are well aware that nations are guided by motives, 
that 'are termed political ; that if we were to put a fi:op 
to the trade, it would be probably from the confidera- 
tion of its impolicy ; and that if it were politick in us to 
abolifh it, it would be equally fo in them. 

* That is, to fupply themfelves with that number of flaves with 
which we fupply them at prefent, and to become the earners for the 
Snaniardj. 

i Thirdly, 



130 On the Impolicy of tut: 

Thirdly, becaufe they would never fuiFer us to pufh a 
new trade in the natural produftions of Africa, without 
following our example ; and they have already purchafed a 
confiderable traft of Land at Cape Verd, where they are 
ready to begin, whenever we fhew them the way, if not 
to be beforehand with us in the advantages refulting from 
fuch a trade. 

Thefe are reafons that have weighed fufficlently with 
me, to induce me to fuppofe, that the French would at 
any rate give up the flave trade, if we relinquifhed it, and 
thefe reafons are much ftronger than any that I can find on 
the other fide of the queflion. However, as this is only 
a matter of conie6lure, and as any opponent has a right, 
if he is better informed, to argue the contrary, I will fup- 
pofe, that when the Englifh relinquifh it, the French will 
not only continue it as at prefent, but t^ke it up. 

Let us then confider the confequences ; for it is faid, 
that they will derive great advantages from the meafure. 

In the firft place, we Ihall transfer to them a lojing 
trade ; in the fecond, one that will be the grave of their 
marine. The latter is too important a confideration to be 
pafied over without fome remarks. 

The French are now paying uncommon attention, as 
it is well known, to their marine, and look up to their 
American pofleffions for its fupport. A great part of the 
Haves that afiifl: in the cultivation of thefe, are furnifhed 
by our means. Every lot of them, which we import, or 
caufe to be imported there, aflifts them in the completion 
of their prefent views. But if we relinquifh the flave 
trade, and if, on the other hand, they become the im- 
porters of their own flaves, the fcene will be totally reverfed. 
For in the importation of every lot of * nine hundred 
effedive flaves into the uncultivated parts of St. Domingo, 
they will make twenty-five^ but lofe \ ftxty feamen ; and in 
every fuch importation into any of their old fettled planta- 
tions, they will lofe fixty^ and make none. Thus, by 

* See Page 79. 

•f- This is what the Englifli would lofe in fupplyln^ the French with 
900 eftedlive flaves j and as the latter lofe more than the former, in 
proportion to the tonnage of their ihips, the ftatement is much within 
boilftds* 

'% becoming 



African Slave Trade. 131 

becoming the carriers of their own flaves, they will find, 
in every cafe, a confiderable balance of lofs to their ma- 
rine ; and, by becoming the carriers of flaves to the 
Spanilli fettle ments, (which Is included In the idea of 
taking up the trade) this lofs will be fo increafed, as to 
become, in the fcale of their naval importance, of the 
moft ferious concern. 

Thefe then are fome of the advantages that the French 
would experience by taking up the flave trade ; let us 
now, for a moment, advert to fome of thofe that would 
refult to us, w^ho relinquifhed it. 

In the firft place we fhould be profecuting a new and 
profitable commerce in the productions of Africa: and 
to that nation, which firft made its eftablifhments there, 
the mofi: advantages would accrue. 

In the fecond place we fhould be adding to the ftrength 
of our marine : firft, by faving thofe feamen, v/ho, to the 
amount of fome hundreds, nov/ annually periih ; and, 
fecondly, by the lofs which the French would fuftain in 
the profecutlon of the trade : for whatever lofs is in this 
way incurred by thofe, whom at any future period we are 
to meet upon the feas, fuch lofs is to be carried over to 
our fide of the account, as fo much additional gain : nor 
would any lot of nine hundred eiFe6i;ive flaves be delivered 
into the uncultivated parts of St. Domingo, or the old 
eftablifhed plantations among the French, but thirty-five 
feamen in the firft Inftance, and fixty in the fecond, might 
be confidered to be added to our marine. 

In the third place the flaves of the Brltlfh planters beings 
attached to the foil by birth, being bound to their mafters 
by gratitude, and living among their relatives and friends, 
would be a firm and faithful proteclion to the iflands in 
the time of war. A part of the naval and military force^ 
formerly fent for their defence, could then a6l on the 
offenfive : v/hereas the French, on the other hand, would 
not only be tied down in thefe particulars, but would have 
to defend their iflands, in conjunction with a people who 
had been robbed of the natural rights of men, and who 
would feize the fiift opportunity that offered of gratifying 
their revenge. 

I 3 To, 



132 



On the Impolicy of the 



To fum up the whole. If the French, whenever we 
fbould aboHfh the flave trade, would co-operate with us 
in the plan, then would the caufe of humanity be eflentially 
ferved ; for even the advocates for flavery allow, that if 
the two nations were to coincide in this particular, the 
bufinefs would be efFeftually done : but if, on the other 
hand, they fliould perfevere in the continuance of it, and 
enter into it more extenfively than before, then would the 
highePc political advantages refult to us, v/ho relinquiftied 
it J for if v/e could lay our hands on our hearts, and fay 
that the flave trade was either humane or juft, there are few 
events that we could wifh for more to the intereft of this 
Icingdom than that, when the Englifh relinquiihed it, the 
French would take it up<, 



CHAP. V. 



I have nov/ replied to all the arguments of any confe- 
quence that I have ever heard advanced in favour of the 
policy of the flave trade, or againfl: the expediency of its 
abolition. It only remains, therefore, that 1 fhould colle6t 
into one point of view the fubffance of what has been 
faid throughout the whole of the prefent work. 

It has appeared, that the flave trade, confidered abfl:ra6f- 
edly by itfelf, is of no e?nolurmnt to ths nation \ that it is 
nnl-rojkablcj on the whole, to Indlvidaals \ and that it is 
ih^ grave of our jeamcn^ deftroying more of them in one 
year, than all the other trades of Great Britain, when put 
together, deftroy in two. 

It has appeared, on the other hand, that the trade which 
might be fubftituted for it in the natural produ6i:ions of 
Africa, if confidered in the fame light, would, by afford- 
ing an inexhauftible mine of wealth to our dyers and 
artificers in wood, by enabling us to break the monopoly 
of the Dutch in fpices, by repaying us for the lofs of 
America, and by becoming the cheapefl market for all 
forts of raw materials foi: our manufaciurersj be of great 
mtimal advantage^. 

It 



African Slave Trade. 133 

It has appeared, fecondly, that fuch a trade would be 

highly profitable to individuals. 

Thirdly, that it would be a nurfery for our feamen^ not 
only to cherilh and preferve them, but to return them 
in health and vigour, in cafe of an emergency, in a few 
vi^eeks. 

Fourthly, that it could not poffibly interfere with the 
produ6lions of our prefent colonies. 

This is the firft ftatement that may be colle£led from a 
perufuai of the prefent wotk. 

To proceed. It has appeared alfo, that, if the {lave 
trade were abolifhed, fuch an abolition could not be pro- 
du61:ive of any immediate detriment, but would be attend- 
ed W\\\\ future gain. 

Firft, the planter would be relieved from a continual 
fource of embarraffinent and diftrefs ; his property would 
be increafed, his annual returns would be larger, he 
would feel himfelf in an independent fituation, in point 
of fubftance, both in peace and war, and he would have 
the unfpeakable fatisfa61:ion of going to his bed fearlefs of 
any private machinations, and in full confidence that his 
property, as well as his perfon, would be fecure. 

Secondly, his Haves, necelTarily experiencing, on one 
hand, a diminution of their former rigours, and raifed, by 
certain regulations, to pofitive advantages on the other, 
they would be admitted to a confiderable portion of hap- 
pinefs, and their condition be confiderably improved. 

Thirdly, the iilands would be fafe in the time of war. 

Fourthly, new fources would be opened for the improve- 
ment of the revenue. 

Fifthly, new fources would be opened for the confump» 
tion of our manufa61:ures. 

This is the fecond ftatement that may be colle6led from 
the prefent work ; and I think it is evident, upon a ma- 
ture confideration of both, unlefs a perfon v/ilfully fhuts 
his eyes, that the Have trade is (as I undertook to fhew 
in the introductory chapter) as impolitick as it is inhuman 
and unju/i. For when we confider that this trade, by 
deftroying our marine^ is not only a political evil in itfelf, 

but 



134 On the Impolicy, &c. 

but that it hinders the introdu^ion of one^ to which if it 
were compared in point of individual or national emolu- 
ment, it v/ould be like an iiland to a continent, or a river 
to a fea ; and that it prevents the ex'tftence of thofe im- 
portant advantages both to the colonies and this kingdom 
that have been defcribed above ; we may fafely fay, that 
whatever arguments the moraliji is able to collect from 
the lio-ht of reafon, or the ?nan of humaniiy from his feel- 
ings, W ftatefman is able to collect others from the fource 
of iilluy^ that call equally aloud for its ABOLITION. 



F I N 



'Jujl publijhed by the fame Author^ 

An ESSAY on the SLAVERY and COM- 
MERCE of the HUMAN SPECIES, 
particularly the African, tranflated from a 
Latin DiiTertation, which was honoured with 
the Firft Prize in the Univerfity of Cambridge, 
for the Year 1785, the fecond Edition, v>^ith 
Additions. 3s. Boards, 



