Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/summaryviewofnegOOhull 



SUMMARY VIEW 

or 

NEGRO SLAVERY, 

AS IT EXISTS IN OUR 

"WEST INHIA COI.OH2ES; 

WITH A FEW 

CASE Si 

&HBWINC THE- CRUEL AND DEFECTIVE OPERATION tF 

COLONIAIi liAW. 

" Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the binds of 
wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed ga 
free." Isaiah. 

HULL: 

PRINTED FOR THE HULL AND EAST RIDING ANTI-SIAVERY ASSOC»aT;v> : 

BV JOHN HUTCHINSON, SILVER-STREBT. 

1824. 

[Price One Penny,] 
Having read thiSf pray lend it to yovr N^s^hm-t, 



COP'T OF THE mUIsL, PETITION, 

iVou) lying for Signature? at the Mansion-, House, 

MARCH 6, ISSii. 



To the Honourable jthe Commons of Great Britain and Ireland in 
Parliament assembled, tbe humble Petition of the undersigned In- 
habitants of tUe Tpwn and Neighbourhood otKingston-^po7i-Hul(, 

Sheweth . 

That your Petitioners, deeply impressed with the cruel wrong* 
eadured by 800,000 (as it is computed,) of their Fellow Creatures iind 
Fellow Subjects, held in lie most grievous bondage in the British West 
Tadia Colonies, regard with the most cordial satisfaction the humane 
and enlightened policy, which led Your Honourable House, in the last 
Session of Parliament, unanimously to pass Resolutions tending to 
meliorate, and ultimately to change, the conditioa of this nnhap^py 
•latss of Human B^ings^ 

That Your Petitioners most earnestly hope and implore, that no 
events which have subsequently taken place may induce Your Honour-^ 
able House, in any degree, to recede from the principles of the Reso- 
lutions then adopted ; but that Yoyr Honourable House will take all 
requisite steps for giving to the same their full effect ; and will persist 
ia the steady pursuit of the objects proposed, till our Colonial Bondsmen 
are admitted to a participation of the Rights aud Privileges whicli are 
^joyed by other classes of His Majesty's Subjects. 

And Your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever prjiy. 

Subscriptions to the Hcll and East Riding Anti-Slavery 
Association are received at the several Banks in the Town, and by 
Mr. J.I'.GJ ..-, 16, Market-place, the Treasurer ; and Mr. W.H. Dikes, 
and Mr, J Bowden, SecretarieSi — A Subscriptioa of Five Shillings 
* Yeaa- coastittUes a Member, 



lummary View, &C( 



T appears to be an undeniable fact, that there are, at thfi 
present time, about eight hyndred thousand human beings ia 

our West India Colonies, m a state of degrading personal 

slavery. 

These unhappy persons, whether young or old, male or 
female, are the absolute propert3f-of their master; who maj 
regulate, according to his discretion, within certain limits, the 
measure of their hbcur, their food, and their punishment ; and 
who may also sell, or transfer them, at his jlleasure. 

The offspring of slaves are doomed to the same cruel 
bondage in perpetuity, and though born within the British 
dominions, it is to no inheritance but that of hapless, hopeless 
servitude. 

Many of the slaves are branded by means of a hot iron, on 
;, . some conspicuous part of the body, with the initials of their 
iJ^ master's name, or some other mark. 

Whether male or female, they are driven to hard labour by 
the impulse of the cart whip; and this labour is continued from 
morning till night, (with certain intermissions for breakfast and 
dinner,) throughout the year; and, in crop time, which lasts 
four or five months, it is protracted through half the night, or 
the whole of every alternate night. 

Thus they labour, under the lash, and without wages, six 
Jays ia the week. On Lhe day which ought to be devoted to 

a2 



rest and religious instruction, they have to labour for their own 
maintenance. This too is their market day, and, of necessity, 
a day of worldly occupation, and much bodily exertion. 

The master, or any one to whom he may delegate his au- 
thority, may punish his slave, without the intervention of the 
magistrates. These discretionary punishments are usually in- 
flicted on the naked body, with the cart whip, which cruelly 
lacerates the flesh of the sufferer. Even the unhappy females, 
are thus shamelessly exposed and barbarously tortured, at the 
caprice of their piaster or overseer ! 

Being regarded as mere goods and chattels, they are liable 
to be seized in execution for their master's debts, and, without 
any regard to family ties, to be sold by auction to the highest 
bidder who may exile them to another Colony. 

Marriage of slaves is protected by no legal sanction. It 
cannot 'be said to exist amongst theia. They have little oT no 
access to the means of Christian instruction. 

The most unrestrained licentiousness, (exhibited in a de- 
grading, disgusting, and depopulating promiscuous intercourse) 
prevails almost universally among the slaves, and is encouraged 
no less universally, by the debaucheries of the whites. 

The evidence of slaves is not admitted in colonial courts, 
in any case affecting a person of free condition. No legal 
facilities have been afforded to them to purchase their own 
freedom; on the contrary, the voluntary manumission of slaves 
is obstructed in many of our colonies, and in some rendered 
nearly impossible, by large fines. It is an universal principle 
of colonial law, that all black or coloured persons are pre- 
sumed and taken to be slaves, unless they can legally prove the ^*f 
icoutrary. The liberty, therefore, of/?ee persons is thus often, .f 
endaugered, and sometimes lost. K^ 

Saeh are some of the more prominent features of Negro 
■SSa^ -'rj, a;i it exists in the colonies of Great Britain. Revolt- 
ing.as they are, they form only a part of those circumstances of 
wretchedness and degradation, which might be pointed out as 
charaoterizing that unhappy state of being. 

Yie V )' row claim the readers attention to a few, among; 



the many facts, which might be adduced to shew the appalling 
effects that are constantly growing out of this unnatural, and 
distorted, state of society, and which will also manifest the cruel 
and defective operation of our colonial laws. 

The first is the case of a seaman shipwrecked on the coast 
of Jamaica, who, having no document to shew that he was 
free, was thus advertised in the Royal Gazette, of Jamaica, 
for the 26th April, 1823. 

" St. ElizaheWs Workhouse, March 4, 1823. 
" Notice is hereby given, that unless the under-mentioned 
slaves are taken out of this Workhouse prior to Tuesday, the 
-^9th of April next, they will, on that day, between the hours 
'of ten and twelve o'clock in the forenoon, be put up to public 
sale to the highest and best bidder, at the post office here, 
agreeably to the Workhouse law, now in force, for the pay- 
'fiient of their fees." 

The first in the list of these unhappy persons, is the follow- 
ing : — " Sherier, a Bermudian, five feet five inches; no marks; 
says he is free, hut has no document ; bold looking, full faced, 
full whiskers, apparently about forty years of age: says he 
■failed some time ago with a Captain Johnson, on board a brig 
called the Clump •, but whither she was bound he does not say, 
only that the brig was lost at sea. He is very plausible, and 
, speaks good English." — In three days after the publication of 
iTthis advertisement, this poor fellow, thrown on the inhospitable 
ftishores of Jamaica by accident, speaking good English ; saying 
5Jie 13 free, and as a proof of it, having no marks,(no marks even 
i-yof the whip we presume,) was doomed to be sold to the highest 
-bidder, for payoient of his fees *! 

The next case is taken from the report of Mr. GiJoras, a 
Missionaryf. 

" A master of slaves, who lived near as in Kingston, 
Jamaica, exercised his barbarities on a Sabbath morniuo- 
while we were worshipping God in the chapej ; and the cries 

• Appendix to Debates in the House of Commons, on the 16th of 
May, V62.\, page 218. 

t See Watson's Defence of the Methodists, page 25. 

A 3 



6 

of the female sufferers have frequently interrupted us in our 
devotions. But there was no redress for them, or for us. 
This man wanted money ; and one of the female slaves having 
two fine children, he sold one of them, and the child was torn 
from her maternal affeel ion. In the agony of her feelings she 
made a hideous howling, and for that crime was flogged. 
Soon after, he sold her other child. This " turned her heart 
within her," and impelled her into a kind of madness. She 
bowled night and day in the yard ; tore her hair ; ran up and 
down the streets, and the parade, rending the heavens with 
her cries, and literally vv'atering the earth with her tears. 
Her constant cry was, " Da wicked massa Jew, he sell my 
children. Will no Buckra massa pity negar ? What me do ? 
Me no have one child V As she stood before the window, she 
said, lifting her hands towards heaven, " My Massa, do, my 
Massa minister, pity me ! my heart do so (shaking herself vio- 
lently) my heart do so, because me have no child. Me go to 
massa house, in massa yard, and in my hut, and me no see 'era." 
And then her cry went up to God*. 

The Third Case is extracted from a letter from Lieut. Col. 
Arthur to the Right Honourable Earl Bathurst, dated Octo- 
ber 7, 1820. 

*' The trial to which I allude, was instituted against a free 
woman of colour, D — C — , under a bench warrant, for punish* 
ing her slave named Kitty, in an illegal, cruel, and severe 
meaner." 

The medical gentleman deposed : " I examined the slave 
Ki^y, and observed the scores of several wounds, which ap- 
peared to have been recently inflicted with a whip or cow-skin; 
they were chiefly upon the shoulders; but there were also a 
considerable number on the left arm, the neck, and face. 
Those on the face had produced considerable swelling, and other 
symptoms of inflammation ; one of the stripes had divided the 
ala of ihe left ear ; another had wounded the left eye-ball, 
both eyes were much swelled and inflamed, and her whole 
countenance was so much disfigured that it was some lime before 
I could recognise her." 

f Appendix to Debates, page 234. 



The police officer deposed ; '' On proceeding to the dwel- 
ling of Miss D — C — , I found the slave Kitty at the foot of a 
bed, with a pair of handcuffs on, and chained round the legs 
with a double padlock ; the chain was bound round so close, 
that she could not stand or move. I saw a cut upon the left 
ear, and many stripes upon the back ; her face also bore visible 
marks of whipping, and there was a bruise under her eye. 
I tried to lift her up, but she could not stand ; she informed me 
that she had been in this situation for six weeks." 

To deny the punishment which had been so cruelly inflicted 
was impossible; and therefore the only defence which the prisoner 
attempted to set up was, that the gentleman with whom she had 
cohabited, and lived for many years, had instigated the slave to 
negleirf her business, disobey her orders, and to behave with 
the greatest insubordination ; that the slave was her own pro- 
perty, and that therefore she had a right to punish her as 
she thought proper. 

The prisoner admitted, indeed voluntarily bore testimony 
to, the uniform excellent conduct of the poor slave for many 
years, and stated, that the circumstance for which she bad now 
chastised her, was the only misconduct of which she had ever 
been guilty. 

The Bench, which was composed of four Magistrates, in 
charging the Jury, briefly observed, lliat, by law, every owner 
w^s justified in punishing to the extent of thirty-nine lashes; 
and, therefore, the only point for the consideration of the Jury 
was, whether a greater number of lashes had been inflicted m 
the present case ? 

Without five minutes hesitation. the prisoner was acquitted •''* 

Fourth Case. — Aigain on the 2Sth of September, 1821, 
Colonel Arthur writes: " In order that I might ba under no 
error from misrepresentation, I attended the trial, and the 
following circumstances were most clearly proved, indeed not 
denied. That on the bare suspicion of having made away with 
some handkerchiefs committed to her care to dispose' of, a poor 
female slave was tied up by order of her owner, and severely 
flogged ; and then, handcuffed and shackled, placed in an old 
store infested with vermin; and the noisome flies of this country. 



After being: in (his situation hr five days and nights, Serjeant 
Rash, a inilitary pensioner, interceded with Mr. B. lor hef 
release; aird, having pledged himself, if the handkerchiefs 
tvere not found, to pay the exorbitant sum demanded, the pooj: 
creature was liberated on Sunday about mid-day. On the fol- 
lowing morning, she left her owner's house to make her com- 
plaint, and seek redress. For this, and on no other ground 
whatever, she was again seized npon, tied down on her bejiy 
to the ground, her arms and legs being stretched out, ..arid, se- 
cured to four stakes with sharp cords, and in this shocking 
attitude, in the heat of the sun, exposed before the men in a 
perfect state of nature, she was again severely flogged, in 
presence of her inhuman master and his brother, upon her back 
and posteriors, and then sent back to her place of torment, and 
there again confined in handcuffs and chains ; and subsisted on 
the wretched pittance of twenty plantains, and two mackarel 
per week, for above fourteen days. Occasionally, indeed, it 
appeared, the miserable being was led out by day, and chained 
to a tree in the yard, and there compelled to wash. 

" This, my Lord, was an offence for which the magistrates- 
could fiiid no law on which to charge the jury, nor the jury any 
under which to find the prisoner guilty ! Most truly, indeed, 
.was it observed by the advocate in open court; ''that if they 
•rejected the consolidated siave-law of Jamaica, whioh by custom 
and usage had been considered for years as the law of the 
.^settlement, he shuddered to remind thesn, that there was the 
Act of 2lst, Geo. Srd, chapter 67, \^hich protected even brutes 
from inhumanity." 

The Fifth Case is taken from a communication from Lord 
Seaforth, Governer ot Barbadoes, to Earl Camden, dat6d 
ISth November, 1804. 

A Man of the name of N. w^ho lives in St. Andrew's 
parish, had been in the habit of behaving brutally towards his 
wife, and one day went so far as to lock her up in a room, and 
confine her in chains. A negro woman belonging to this man, 
touched with compassion for her unfortunate mistress, undertook 
'privately to release her. N. found it out; and, in order tcij;^. 
punish herj obliged her to put her ton lo through a hole in a "" 



9 

board, (o which he fastened it on the opposite side with a fork, 
and ]efl her in that situation for some tinie. He afterwards 
cut out her tongue nearly by the root ; in consequence of which 
she almost instantly died. No punishment followed this 
monstrous act of barbarity? 

The Sixth Case is extracted from a letter from the Attorney 
General of Barbadoes, to the Governor of the Island, 1804. 

*'A Mr. , manager of a plantation in the neighbourhood, 

bad some months before purchased an African lad, who was 
much attached to his person, and slept in a passage contiguous 
to his chamber. On Sunday night, there was an alarm of fire 

in the plantation, which induced Mr. to go out hastily, 

and the next morning he missed the lad, who he supposed in- 
tended to follow him in the night, and had mistaken his way. 
He sent to his neighbours, and to Mr. C. among the rest, to 
inform them that his African lad had accidently strayed from 
him, and that possibly he might be found breaking canes, or 
taking something else for his support, in which case, he requested 
that they would not injure him, but return him, and he Mr. — 
himself, would pay any damage he might have committed. 

A day or two after, the owner of the boy was informed that 
Mr. C. and H. had killed a negro in a neighbouring gully, and 
buried him there. He went to Mr. C. to enquire into the truth 
of the report, and intended to have the grave opened, to see 
whether it was bis African lad. Mr. C. told him, a negro had 
been killed and buried there ; but assured him it was not his, for 
he knew him very well, and he need not be at the trouble of 
opening the grave. Upon this, the owner went away satisfied ; 
but receiving farther information, which left no doubt upon his 
mind that it was his negro, he returned, and opened the 
grave, and found it to be so. I was his leading counsel, and 
t|ie facts stated in my brief were as follows : that C. and H . 
bping informed, that there was a negro lurking in the gully, went 
armed with muskets, and took several negro men with them. 
The poor African seeing a parcel of men coming to attack 
him, was frightened ; he took up a stone to defend himself, and 
retreated into a cleft reck, where they could not easily come at 
Kim; they then wen* w;i some trash, put it iato the crevices of 



10 

the rock behind him, and set it on fire ; after it had burnt so as 
to scorch the poor fellow, he ran into a pool of water close by .- 
they sent a negro to bring him out, and he threw the stone at 
the negra; apen which the tv\'o white men fired several times 
at him with the guns loaded with shot, and the neji,roe8 pelted 
him with stones. He was at .length dragged out of the pool in a, 
dying condition ; for he had not only received several bruises 
from the stones, but his breast was so pierced with the shot, thSit ^. 
. it was like a cullender, •' .»* 

The white savages (for so the Attorney-Generaf calls thetrtj 
ordered the negroes to dig a grave'; and whilst they were dig- 
ging it, the poor creature made signs of begging for water, 
vyhich was not given to him, but, as soon as the grave was dug» 
he was throvin into it and covered over; and there seems to 
be some doubt whether he was then quite dead. C. and H. 
deny this; but the owner assured me he could prove it by 
more than one witness; and I have reasorvto believe it to be 
true, because on the day of trial C. and H. did not suffer the 
cause to come to a hearing, but paid the penalties and the costs 
of suit, which it is not supposed they would have done bad 
they been innocent. 

It may be proper to remark, that the story of the-poor boy 
strikingly phews that such protection as the negro slave occa- 
sionally receives from the laws^ is too often to be ascribed rather 
to the masters care of his property than to any more generous 
motive. The master, in this case, when he had only reason to 
believe that a negro had been killed and buried out of the way, 
and not that it was his own slave goes away satisfied ! Is there a 
human being v\'ho in this country would have so done* ?" 

It is not unreasonable to conclude that the suffering subject* 
of this last case was a youth of a fine disposition, for it is evident. »^ 
he had, in some measure, gained the regard and indulgence ^f 
his master. It does not appear that he had commixted any 
crime. All his actions bespeak but the conduct of a child, 
agitated and alarmed. 

How then are we to account for the conduct of C. and H, 
in bujuinghim out of his retreat, deliberately levelling their 

♦ Wilberforcc's Appeal, &c. 1822, Note, page 42. 



pieces, and firin^ into the naked bosom of this unhappy youth ; 
and, -finally, in refusing him a little water in the agonies of 
death? It can only be accounted for, by admitting it to be one 
of the many evils of our system of colonial bondage, that it 
hardens the human heart, and renders a man utterly irjsensible 
fii the sufferings of hk fellow creatures ! 
*" , '^ ■ -. 

j.g AV hen we are informed that cases, such as those that are 
here recited, so deeply marked with cruelty and with crime, 
pass under our Colonial Govermnent with impunity, can it be 
doubted that the system is a bad one ? or that such a state of 
slavery is repugnant to the principles of the British Constitu- 
tion, and to the Christian Religion?' ' •■ 

Of -Our limits do not admit of arguments, or it might be also de« 
monstrated that this system is highly impolitic as well as wicked. 
It is said to cost the British public, about two millions an- 
nually, to support this wretched state of things; and that, in the 
Island of Jamaica alone, the waste of human life, attributable 
to the effecis of slavery, is not less than 400,000 in the space of 
thirty years! 

The opponents of the Abolition of Slavery, do not so much 
defend the. system, as accuse those who peek its gradual abolition 
of rashness and injustice, in interfering with their vested 
property and legal rights. 

It must be allowed that our laws have permitted and 
encouraged men to make merchandize of their fellow men. 
We have therefore all in some measure partaken of the 
guilt. We cannot in justice lay all the blame on the planters. 
It is this system of slavery that we deplore and condemn, 
as the source of accumulating evil. It is this that we vyisb to 
correct, and if compensation be justly due to the planters we 
are willing to contribute our share towards it. 

In Ihe last session of Parliament, the foilowing resolutions 
were proposed on the part of his Majesty's Government, and 
adopted by the House of Commons without one dissenting voice. 

1st. " That it is expedient to adopt eflPectual and decisive^ 
measures for meliorating the condition of the slave 
population in his Majesty's Colonies. 



.Mfki 



12 

2nd. " That through a determined and persevering, but 
judicious and temperate enforcement of such measures, 
this house looks forward to a progressive improvemeot 
in the character of the slave population ; such as may , 
prepare them for a participation in those civil rights and 
privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his 
Majesty's subjects. 

3rd. *' That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of 
this purpose, at the earliest period that may be com- 
patible with the well-being of the slaves, the safety of 
the Colonies, and with a fair and equitable consider- 
ation of the interests of all parties concerned therein." 

It might have been expected that the planters would have 
united with the Government in giving effect to these benevolent 
resolutions, but instead of that, the most hostile dispositions' 
have been manifested, and, in some instances, resolutions of 
violent opposition have been avowed. 

It therefore becomes the duty of the friends of the abolition 
of slavery to exert themselves in petitioning the legislature, 
to pursue the wise course already begun, and to do away this 
national evil at the earliest safe and practicable period. 

We are fully aware that emancipation must be a gradual 
work ; but, with the animating view of raising 800,000 of our 
r^ullow-creatures, with all their yet unborn posterity, from the 
abject state of brutes, to that of rational beings; of bringing into 
action this stagnant mass of human intellect, of rendering it 
accessible to civil liberty and gospel light, of removing from the 
character of our country the crime and reproach of slavery; 
with such an object before our eyes can we be indifferent and 
sapiae ? 

Let us rather use every constitutional effort to complete the 
work, that we may exonerate ourselves from our share in the 
guilt, and stand discharged of a duty which as men we owe to 
our fellow-men ; which as patriots we owe to the character and 
prosperity of our country j and as Christians to the sanctity of 
our religion. 

John Hutchinson, Printer, Silver-Street, Hull. 



