


-_ 
■X 


t . '• r 




^a 


V* 





$f\' 



■1 



"»*4>-v*- -.fcfefcS»sL~ 



BOSTON 
PUBLIC 

LIBRARY 



/ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essayontreatmentOOrams 



£ s s 



A Y 



N T H E 



TREATMENT and CONVERSION 



F 



AFRICAN SLAVES. 



<iA2?&&/'/$<!&&4&^ 



A N 

E S S A Y 

O N T H E 

TREATMENT and CONVERSION 

O F 

AFRICAN SLAVES 

IN THE 

BRITISH SUGAR COLONIES, 

BY THE 

REVEREND JAMES RAMSAY, M. A, 

VICAR OF TESTON, IN KENT. 



God hath made of one Blood all Nations of the Earth, for to 
dwell on all the Face of the Earth, A&s xvii. 26. 

He that ftealeth a Man, and felleth him, or if he be found in 
his Hand, he {hall furely be put to death, Exodus xxi.„ 16. 



' MM fcl'liTi'i"!—— 



DUBLIN: 

PRINTED FOR T. WALKER, C. JENKIN, 

R. MARCHBANK, L. WHITE, 

R. BURTON, P. BYRNE. 



MjDCCjLXXXIV. 



• « r r * 



\ 



Xj4.jio..-%j\ 



Wt8!&l* 






JS 5 S" * "I 

E ft M 



4C^£2_ 



p 



THE 



|P R E F A C E. 



A LETTER of an ordinary length, in anfwer 
to the humane one which is here fubjoinedV 
gave beginning to this performance. By fre- 
quent tranfcription, it fenfibly increafed in flze ? 
and extended itfelf to collateral fubje&s, till it 
had becoms fomething like a. fyftem for the 
regulation and improvement of our fugar colo- 
nies, and the advancement and converflon of 
their (laves, 

On fubmitting the manufcript to thofe, who 
were much better judges than the author could 
pretend to be, of the prefent prevailing tafte 
(and many perfons of rank and learning have 
honoured it with a perufal) the account of the 
treatment of (laves in our colonies engaged 
their fympathy, and the plan for their improve- 
ment and converfion had their hearty good 
wifhes. But they exhorted him, almoft all 
with one voice, to fupprefs every part that 
tended to introduce thofe political difcuftions, 

which 



vi PREFACE. 

which muft be unavoidable in treating of the 
ftate of colonies, and their dependence on a 
mother country. 

. As the author had, from the firft, no private 
views to gratify in the plan, and wifhed only 
to give it every poflible chance of fuccefs 
with the public, their decifion was final with 
him ; and in conformity to it, every thing that 
related to the improvement, and better govern- 
ment of the colonies, has been omitted. By 
this alteration in the original form of the work, 
it has neceflarily loft fomething of that fyftem- 
atic order, which contributes fo much to the 
beauty of compofitions, and leads fo plea- 
fantly on from premifes to conclufion. But 
humanity is its object, not reputation. When 
the finer feelings of the foul are engaged, it 
would be a criminal trifling to aim at amufe- 
ment. 

I will not infult the reader's understanding, 
by an attempt to demonrtrate it to be an obje£t 
of importance, to gain to fociety, to reafon 
and religion, half a million of our kind, equally 
with us adapted for advancing themfelves in 
every art and fcience, thac can diflinguifh man 
from man, equally with us made capable of 
looking forward to and enjoying futurity. I 
rather wifh to call in his benevolence, his 

confciencej 



PREFACE. vii 

conference, his intereft, to give their aid in 
carrying on the work. The people, whofe 
improvement is here propofed, toil for the 
Britifh flate. The public, therefore, has an 
intereft. in their advancement in fociety. And 
what is here claimed for them ? Not bounties, 
or gifts from parliament, or people ; but leave 
to become more ufeful to themfelves, their 
matters, and the flate. And furely a plan, 
that has fuch an end in view, needs only to be 
explained to procure a general prepoffeilion in 
its favour. While the man of feeling finds 
every generous fentiment indulged in the prof- 
peel: which it opens, the politician, the felfifh, 
will have all their little wifhes of opulence, and 
accumulation fully realized. The defign then, 
muft have every man of every complexion 
combined jn its behalf; and there is nothing 
to be accounted for but the author's courage, in 
prefuming to offer to the public his thoughts iu 
particular on the fubjecT:, 

From the manner in which this work had its 
beginning, it will appear that neither vanity, 
nor felf-fufficiency, led the author to the at- 
tempt. It was not till after the feventh copy 
had been read, and its purpofe approved of by 
many perfons of worth and judgment, that he 
entertained the mod diftant thoughts of publi- 
cation. Even now, that it has undergone every 
A 5 fuggefted 



viii PREFACE. 

fuggefted correction, and received every im- 
provement that three tranfcriptions in fuccelTion 
could give it, on their opinion, rather than his 
own, he refts the probability of its proving 
acceptable to the public. 

Not to be guilty of ftifling what had a ge- 
nerous purpofe in view, and poflibly might do 
good, if fo it pleafed God, has been, from 
the firfl, as far as refpe£ted himfelf, the only 
inducement. Profit he difclaims ; and willingly 
would he transfer all the credit that can poflibly 
arife from it, to him who would take on him 
the cenfure. Yet mould he not forgive him- 
felf, were he to difcover that ill nature had 
fharpened a fingle expreflion in the EfTky, or 
dragged an unlucky object of refentment into 
view. To blame has not been a pleafant tafk. 
He has fufTered more from the necefiity of doing 
it, than the perfons afFe&ed will probably do 
from the application ; which yet, except in 
one cafe, mufr. be the work of confcience with 
themfelves. In this cafe, the perfon who is the 
object, is of fuch an happy difpofition, as to be 
incapable of feeling cenfure, and of that efta- 
blifhed character, that nothing can hurt him. 
The public, therefore, has a right to him, 
as to a beacon placed near a dangerous quick 
fand. 



To 



PREFACE. ir 

To conclude: the reader has here the re- 
marks of about twenty years experience in the 
Weft-Indies, and above fourteen years particular 
application to the fubje£t. If it draws the 
attention due to its importance, the author 
will have the fatisfaction of reflecting, that he 
has not lived in vain for his-country and man- 
kind. And this confideration will fmooth before 
him the otherwife rugged paths of life. Should 
it fail in anfwering his well meant purpofe, dill 
the thoughts of having made the attempt, will 
pleafe on reflection ; nor will the intention lofe 
its reward there, where his particular aim is to 
be found acceptable. 



Letter referred to above, which fuggejled to- 
the Author the Conjideratioti of the follow- 
ing Subjecl. 

I will omit any apology, however needful, 
for offering my thoughts on the fubjecl of 
•flavery, to one, whofe office and opportunities 
among flaves muft induce him to think and act 
what is right refpe&ing them. The moft. I can 
hope for is, to echo to him fome of his own 
reflections, which perhaps the univerfal care- 
leflnefs and indifference prevailing in every thing 
that concerns them, may, at times, caufe him 
to pafs inattentively by, or confider lefs than 
their importance deferves, 

X I am 



\ 



X 



PREFACE. 



I am fure Mr. mull always think him- 

felf not only obliged to ufe his flaves with 
kindnefs, but alfo viewing them as fellow- 
creatures, bound to extend his care to the 
fecurity of their eternal happinefs, by infiruct- 
ing them in the relation which they bear to the 
great Author of their being, and gracious Re- 
deemer of their fouls, and in the duty arifing 
from that relation, as it is revealed in the 
gofpel, and is required of all men, who feek 
after future happinefs. A care which, however 
contrary to the ufual policy- of matters, would 
be the mod probable means of making flaves 
diligent and faithful ; for it would awaken 
confcience within them, to be a Uriel: overfeer, 
and a fevere monitor, whom they could not 
evade. This is a confequence, that if duly 
confidered, might induce even thofe who, neg- 
lecting to take Providence into the account 9 
confider only how they (hall make the moll of 
their flock, -to afford their flaves opportunities 
of learning their duty ; allowing them, for ex- 
ample, fome portion of the week for procuring 
their, fubfiflence, and fetting the Lord's day 
apart for religious inflru&ion. 

Still granting that maflers, who look no 
farther than prefent profit, may laugh at the 
far-fetched expectation, furely men who believe 
in revelation cannot indulge a doubt but that 

the- 



PREFACE. 



XI 



the treating of them like fellow-creatures, and 
the fhewing of mercy to their fouls, will on 
the whole more advance the mailer's real in- 
tereft, than a method which fuffers them to 
continue in brutifh ignorance oi themfelves and 
their Creator ; which obliges them to labour 
for the fupport of their bodies, on a day fet 
apart for the improvement of their fouls. 

I know in this cafe it is argued, " to fuppofe 
<c that the work of five days may poffibly be 
u found as profitable to owners, as that of fix 
" days, is to expect that God will work a 
ei miracle to reward the indulgence ; an ex- 
<c traordinary exertion of power, which on fo 
" trivial an occafion, it would be prefumptuous 
" to look for." But when in any fituation, 
we doubt God's juftice or goodnefs, we injure 
his power and wifdom, for thefe act under 
their influence. And when we imagine him 
refting at a oiilance, or acting only in great 
events, we entertain improper notions of his 
relation to the work of his own hands. Scrip- 
ture and reafon, when they contemplate the 
Divine nature, join to reprefent him as ever 
prefent to all his works, as quickening every 
thing that liveth, upholding whatever hath a 
being, as directing the operations of nature, and 
guiding the actions of men, all to their proper 
purpofes, in a manner indeed that we cannot 

compre- 



xu 



PREFACE. 



comprehend ; but fo, that a fparrow falls not 
to the ground without his permiflion, and that 
a cup of cold water given for his fake, doth not 
efcape his notice, nor go without its reward ; 
yet in a manner, which leaves unreftrained that 
liberty, by which moral agents become account- 
able for their actions. And if this be the flate 
of things, under God's government, can we 
doubt of their recompenfe, who, in conformity 
to God's injunctions laid on our firft parents, 
and fince often renewed, allow themfelves and 
their dependents leifure, on the Lord's day, to 
learn their Creator's will, and pay him a rational 
homage and duty ? Humbly to believe and 
expect this, as declared to us in God's general 
promifes in fcripture, is an inftance of faith 
that we cannot refufe to his veracity, who has 
engaged to perform it. 

Even were we unable to conceive a particular 
method, by which a compenfation for this relin- 
quimed part of our fervants labour could be ef- 
fected, when we on that account conclude, that 
the obedience will reflect no benefit on us, we 
,'diftruft God's promifes, or doubt of his ability 
to find a way to reward our compliance with 
his, will. And yet, without working a manifeft 
miracle, God may give fuccefs to our endea- 
vours, in a thoufand ways, which fhall feem to 
be the natural effeds of induftry, or that 

unknown 



PREFACE. xiii 

unknown direction of human affairs, which in 
common account is called chance. He may 
make us fkilful in managing occafions, fagacious 
in forefeeing events. He may preferve us from 
expenfive illnefs, guard us from mifchievous neigh- 
bours. He may hlefs us with faithful fervants. 
He may incline mens affections to us, and make 
them instruments in promoting our profperity. 
Endlefs are the methods by which, in an unper- 
ceived manner, he can turn the common acci- 
dents of life to reward men who prefer duty to 
prefent advantage, who co-operate with his 
benevolence in promoting the happinefs of their 
follow-creatures. 

To doubt of a reward, even in this world, 
whenever it mall be, on the whole, beft for us, 
is to doubt of the propriety and efficacy of 
prayer, and to cut off our hopes of its fuccefs. 
Yet God invites us to make our requefts known 
unto him, and folemnly promifes, that when we 
afk we fhall receive. That it will be fo, even 
in this life, we may pofitively conclude, if we 
confider only the confequence of thisjuft reflec- 
tion, " What is called the ordinary courfe of 
" Providence, which governs events, is not the 
" effect of blind chance, of uncontroulable 
" fate, but a wife and orderly chain of caufes and 
" effects, adapted by the Almighty contriver, 
" as nicely to the conduct of free agents, as 



XIV 



PREFACE. 



" to the inftincts of brutes, or the laws of vege- 
" table and inanimate matter." 

It is owned even by men who confider flaves 
as property, and who, having bought them, 
conclude that they have a right to make the 
mod of their money, that the working of flaves 
beyond theirability, fhortens their lives, and 
checks their population. Do not fuch men ac- 
knowledge in this, ftrong traces of Divine juflice, 
punifhing cruelty and thirft of gain by the mod 
natural means, by making thern counteract and 
defeat their own purpofe. And by parity of 
reafoning may we not expefit Providence to 
profper by means as natural, our humane, bene- 
volent attention to wretches, whom the crimes 
and avarice of felfifh men have placed in our 
power ? With refpeft to religion, unlefs we 
deny revelation to be a bleffing, or benefit to 
mankind, we cannot hold ourfelves blarnelefs, 
if we fo/bear ufing our befl endeavours to com-, 
municate the knowledge of it to every one with- 
in our reach. And whatever may be our fuccefs 
in other refpects, the pains that we ufe to im- 
prove the minds of our fellow creatures, will 
return with advantage into our own bofoms. 
God's grace will be ftirred up within us, and 
our own difpofition and behaviour will be 
corrected and amended. 

Introduc- 



PREFACE. xv 

Introductory Addrefs, in Anfwer to the pre- 
ceding Letter. 

I have perufed with attention, your humane and 
pious remarks on the treatment of flaves in the 
Britifh colonies. I think myfelf honoured by your 
fuppofing me, in particular, capable of being 
influenced in my behaviour towards them, by a 
confederation fo benevolent, as a refpe& to their 
moral improvement, and their eternal welfare. 
In return, allow me to think highly of the heart, 
that with a good will, in which the meaneft and 
mod diftant of your kind have a fhare, can, in 
the caufe of humanity and religion, thus warmly 
interefl you for fuch unpitied, and defpifed 
objects as our flaves in general are. 

An account which may be depended on, in a 
matter wherein humanity is nearly concerned, 
cannot be unfatisfaftory to a mind, turned 
like yours to all the tender feelings. And 
though I fear the emotions which this account 
muft naturally raife in your bread, will not be 
of the cheerful kind, yet I doubt not of its pro- 
ducing reflections, which you would not willingly 
have been without. An humble refignation to 
the meafures of Providence, is our duty at all 
times ; but then efpecially, when our concern 
for God's glory, and our brother's eternal wel- 
fare, feems to mark out an object of our willies 

and 



xvi PREFACE. 

and prayers, which God is pie a fed to keep 
referved among the hidden things of his govern- 
ment, till his own good time mail come to 
reveal, and give it to the world. 

I wifh indeed, for your eafe, that I could 
have comprehended any tolerable view of the 
fubjecl. within more moderate limits ; but it 
became complex under my hands, and drew after 
it a variety of confiderations. Happy ftill mould 
I have thought myfelf, could I have made 
this view, fuch as it is, exprefs what you 
charitably wifh it might unfold ; could I inform 
you, that we are careful of the bodies, and tender 
of the fouls of thefe our fellow-creatures, thus 
fubmitted to our power, thus abandoned to our 
humanity. But truth requires a different, a 
mournful tale of unconcern and unfeeling neglect. 

To make this view more complete, I fhall 
firft confider the feveral natural and artificial 
ranks that take place in focial life, and more 
particularly that of mafler and flave in the 
European colonies. I fhall fhew how much 
the public will be profited, and how rauch the 
mafler would gain, by advancing flaves in fo- 
cial life. I fhall fhew how this advancement in 
fociety, and their improvement in religion, muft 
neceflarily go hand in hand, and aflift each 
other, if either one, or both thefe purpofes, be 
our view refpeding them. As extravagance 

and 



PREFACE. xvii 

and avarice have begun of late to make fad en- 
croachments on that reft of the fabbath, which 
hitherto had been reckoned facred ; in addition 
to your pious reafons for fetting it apart for 
the purpofes of religion; I (hall prove how 
much this inconfiderate robbery hurts the maf- 
ter's own intereft. I mail aflert the claim of 
the Negroes to attention from us, by explaining 
their natural capacity, and proving them to be 
on a footing of equality in refpecl; of the re- 
ception of mental improvement, with the na- 
tives of any other country. And in conclufion 
I (hall lay down a plan for their improvement, 
and converfion. 



CPNTENTS. 



t xviii ] 



x. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAP. I. OF THE VARIOUS RANKS 
IN SOCIAL LIFE. Page i 

Bed:, i. The Ranks into which the 

Members of a Community necefla- 

rily feparate. - - - a 

Sect. 2. Matter and Slave in ancient 

Times. - 

Seel:. 3. Matter and Slave in Gothic 

Times. 
Sect. 4. Matter and Slave as propofed 

by Fletcher for Scotland, Anno 1698. 32 
Sect. 5. Matter and Slave in the French 

Colonies. - - 

Sect. 6. Matter and Slave in the Brititti 

Colonies. - 

Sect. 7. Matter and Slave in particular 

Inttances - - - - 78 



17 
25 



45 
53 



CHAP, II. 



CONTENTS. 



xix 



CHAR II. THE ADVANCEMENT OF 
SLAVES WOULD AUGMENT THEIR 
SOCIAL IMPORTANCE. Page 88 

Se&. i. Their prefent Importance in 

Society as Slaves - - - 91 

Se£t. 2. Their prefent Importance in 
Society would be increafed by Free- 
dom. - - - - 97 

Se£t. 3. Their Matters would be pro- 
fited by their Advancement. - 101 

Sect. 4. Their Mafters would be pro- 
fited by allowing them the Privilege 
of a Weekly Sabbath - - m 

CHAP. III. THE ADVANCEMENT OF 
SLAVES MUST ACCOMPANY THEIR 
RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION. Page 129 

Seel. 1. Examples of the Difficulty 
found in inftru&ing them in their 
prefent State. - - - 132 

Sect. 2. The Obflacles that the Mora- 
vian Millions have had to ftruggle 
with. - •- - - 138 

Sect. 3. Inefficacy of the Author's pri- 
vate Attempts to inflxuft Slaves. 143 

SecL 4. Inefficacy of the Author's pub- 
lic Attempts to inftru<5t Slaves. 178 

Sea. 5. 



xx CONTENTS. 

Page 

Seel. 5. The Manner fuggefted, in 
which private Attempts on large 
. Plantations to improve Slaves may 
probably fucceed. - - 155 

CHAP. IV. NATURAL CAPACITY OF 
AFRICAN SLAVES VINDICATED. 

Page 168 

Se£t. 1. Objections to African Capacity 

drawn from Philofophy, confidered. ib. 
Se&. 2. Objections to African Capacity 

drawn from Form, confidered. - 179 
Seel;. 3. Objections to African Capacity 

drawn from Anatomy, confidered. 187 
Seel:. 4. Objections to African Capacity 

drawn from Obfervation, confidered. 197 
Seel. 5. African Capacity vindicated 

from Experience. 206 

CHAP. V. PLAN FOR THE IMPROVE- 
MENT AND CONVERSION OF AFRI- 
CAN SLAVES. Page 225 
Seel:. 1. Eftablifhment of Clergy, and 

their Duty among Slaves. - 227 

Seel. 2. General Improvement of Slaves. 234 
Seel. 3. Privileges granted, and Police 

extended to Slaves, - - 241 

Conclufion. - 249 



ESSAY 

ON THE 

TREATMENTand conversion 

o F 

AFRICAN SLAVES 

IN THE 

BRITISH SUGAR COLONIES. 



C H A P. I. 

Of the various Ranks in Social Life. 

HERE is a natural inequality, or dl- 
verfity, which prevails among men that fits 
them for fociety, enables them to fill up all the 
different offices of polilhed life, and forms their 
varied abilities, nay, even their particular de- 
fects and wants, into a firm band of union. 
Where the arrangement of thefe varied attri- 
butes in man is conducted in fociety by the 
views of nature, or the dictates of revelation 
which explain and inforce them, there the feel- 
B ings 



2 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ings and interefts of the weaker, or inferior 
members, are confulted equally with thofe of 
the ftronger or fuperior. Each man takes that 
flation for which nature intended him ; and his 
rights are fenced around, and his claims are 
reftrained, by laws prefcribed by the Author of 
nature : for He is the only -rightful legiflator ; 
and human regulations are in a moral fenfe 
binding, only when they can be traced imme- 
diately, or in principle, to this pure origin. As 
the creation of man had the general improve- 
ment and happinefs of the race in view, every 
law that refpe&s him muft fuppofe an attention 
to this purpofe of his being, and therefore can- 
not regard the intereft of one at the expence of 
another. All, as far as is confident with general 
good, muft be left to the free ufe of their 
powers and acquifitions, or of life, liberty, and 
property. In the ufe of thefe, within the limits 
of law, confifts the only equality that can take 
place among men ; and it is evident that the 
extent of this ufe muft vary according to the 
different fkuation of each individual, and the 
capacity, or power of exertion, which he 
pofle fife th, and farther muft be affe&ed by the 
ftate of improvement, that the community, of 
which he is a member, has attained. 

Oppofed to this law of nature, and of God, 
that gives and fecures to every man the rights, 
adapted to his particular ftation in fociety, ftands 

the 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 3 

the artificial, or unnatural relation of matter 

and flave ; where power conftitutes right ; 

where, according to the degree of his capacity 

of coercion, every man becomes his own le- 

giflator, and ere£ts his intereft, or his caprice, 

into a law for regulating his conduct to his 

neighbour. And as the one draws its origin 

from the heavenly fountain of benevolence, fo 

the other may be traced to the infernal enemy 

of all goodnefs. For here no mutual benefit is 

confulted, but every wifh, every feeling, is fub~ 

mitted to the mandate of a felfifrt tyrant. Yet 

the influence of this luft for acting the matter 

has been fo univerfal, and has obtained fo long, 

as to oblige us alfo, in principle, to deduce it 

immediately from that love of power, which, 

within the boundaries prefcribed by nature, 

makes a part of our conftitution ; it not being 

poflible to account for its having fo generally 

prevailed, as we find it has in the world, on 

any other fuppofition than its being an abufe of 

what b natural to mankind, excited and che- 

rifhed in them by an enemy to their virtue and 

happinefs. 

» 
For, as far back as hiftory carried us, we 

read of matter and flave. Even in the favage 

ftate, cuftom, which leaves men on a footing of 

a 

equality, has enflaved wives. Among our 

negro ttaves, he who cannot attach to himfelf 

a wife, or fubdue any other creature, buys 

B 2 fome 



4 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

fome half ftarved dog, over whom he may ex- 
ercife his tyrannic difpofition. If thefe be the 
unalienable claims of human nature, and th*i3 
the practice of mankind oppofed to them, how 
necefiary mufl it be to fix fuch boundaries, as 
may prefer ve the rights of the weak from the 
incroachments of the ftrong. And this cannot 
be done in a more effectual manner, than by 
drawing the natural', and the artificial (late of 
fociety, each in its proper colours^ and leaving 
the decifion to the common fenfe of mankind. 

SEC T. I. 

The Ranks into which the Members of a 
Community necejjarily feparate. 

I N every independent fiate, whether mo- 
narchy or republic, that has got beyond the firft 
ileps of civilization, the people, or citizens, 
naturally divide into fovereign and fubjecl:, 
roafterand family, employer and employed; all 
other ranks being arbitrary or artificial. 

The fovereio-n declares and executes the will 
of the - people at large. He mufl therefore be 
fupreme, or uncontroulable by any particular 
number, or part of the people. His authority 
mud extend over all ranks, comprehend all 
poflible cafes, and conclude every particular 
diffcria. In this fenfe he is arbitrary, or in- 
truded 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. $ 

trufted with the power of ena&ing and abro- 
gating laws, within the limits which man's con- 
ftitution, and the dictates of morality prefcribe. 
But as the fovereign, whether hereditary or 
elective, permanent or temporary, one or many 
acting together in one body, is intruded with 
this power for the benefit of the people, which 
fuppofeth it to be exercifed for the general 
good ; therefore the law, or will of the fove- 
reign, fhould^be declared in general terms, that 
it may affect individuals only by inference in 
particular cafes, and conclude the'perfon of the 
fovereign in his ordinary conduct, and indi- 
vidual capacity, equally with the fubjecl. * 

It is the general purpofe of every govern- 
ment, that, in extraordinary cafes, conftitures 
the people judges of their fovereign' s conduct, 
and jufliiks them in refuming a power, which 

in 

* This circumftance is carried to a great length in the 
EritKh conftitution with the happieft effects. The Houfe of 
Peers helps to compofe the legiflature ; but each member, as 
an individual, continues fubjecT: to the law c . The Houfe of 
Commons pofTeiTes, for. a time limited, a fhare in the legis- 
lation; but each reprefenutive is a private citizen, under the 
operation of the laws 5 and, after a t'me, the whole m'xes 
with the mals of the people, to obey, as fubjects, tbofe fta- 
tutes that they had aflifted to frame. The perfon of the king 
alone, out of refpeet to his office, is not made the object of ^ 
coercive law. It is this mixed charafter of legiflator and 
citizen in our rulers that makes authority compatible with 
freedom ; not the particular proportion of thofe who have the 
privilege of electing them, or their numbers, or the period 
for which they may have been chofen* 



6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

in refpeft of its end, mufl be confidered as de- 
legated. Such a cafe happened at the revolu- 
tion. But the occafion may fafely continue to 
be left, as it was then, to the feelings of the 
people. Defigning men, Otherwife unable to 
work themfelves into notice, are, under the 
mafk of patriotifm, fo ready to fet up, at every 
trifle, a clamour againO: government, to enhance 
their price, or pave the way to their own am- 
bition, that a virtuous citizen will not eafily 
fufFer himfelf to be drawn in to join the cry. 

A free flate, then, is that in which known 
laws bind equally fovereign and fubjecT;. A 
proclamation forbidding the exportation of grain 
is an 3.6k of power, refting on the propriety of 
the meafure. A vote of credit is as illegal a 
manner, of raifing money on the fubjecl:, as was 
formerly fhip-mjoney, or a benevolence; though 
it may not be followed by all their bad conse- 
quences. Both fhew a defect in the conftitu- 
tion, which wants to be corrected by a general 
law, prefcribing the proper conduct in particular 
exigencies. The law that (hut up Bofton Port 
was hard, becaufe particular. A law to (hut 
up every port, where the revenue laws are re- 
fifted, would be juft and equitable. Thus 
might a dictatorial authority, (I mean a latent 
power to be occafionally called forth) which is 
neceflary in every flate, be eftablifhed on a legal 

foundation, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 7 

foundation, and be kept from tranfgrefling its 
due bounds.* 

Families are, in the detail, what commit 
nities are at large, except that the head, or 
mafter of the family, having a kind of pro- 
perty, either continued or temporary, in all 
under his roof, governs by the dictates of dif- 
cretion, rather than by known laws. Still the 
good, even of the loweft member of the family, 
muft be a co-operating principle, And that 
family, whofe government approaches nearefl: 
to the regular method, which prefcribed known 
rules fuppofe, where the claims, and duty, or 
bufinefs, of each individual is diftinctly afcer- 
tained, will, on the whole, be beft managed, 
and allow the perfons compofmg it to enjoy the 
greatefi poflible freedom in their Nations. 

In 

* The cafes, for which it is necefiary to provide a dicta- 
torial power, may eafily be forefeen, and be provided for in 
one general ftatute, to be binding till the legiflature can be 
affembled to deliberate on the fubjeft. The circumftances that 
make it proper to fufpend the Habeas Corpus Act, to open or 
(hut the ports, to lay embargoes, to give a vote of credit, 
may eafily be enumerated. But arbitrary undefined power 
has charms too alluring to be refigned by any, who find them- 
felves in pofleffion of it. Even our Houfe of Commons, 
while acting as guardian of the privileges of the people, 
choofes to fubmit its right of commitment, in cafes of con- 
tempt, to the capricious decifion of any. ordinary magiftrate, 
rather than permit the circumttancee of the claim to be de- 
fined by a pofitive law. 



8 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

In this light the rank of matter and fervant 
is comprehended in that of family; fervants, as 
a part of the family, are fubje£t to its rules, 
and, as contributing to its eafe, are intitled to 
its advantages^ But as the agreement between 
the matter and fervant is voluntary, prefcribing 
the duty on one fide, and afcertaining the wages 
on the other, it may likewife be considered 
under the head of employer and employed. 
The want, at firft view, appears to be reci- 
procal; but cuftom has univerfally affixed to 
property the idea of fuperiority over perfonal 
ability, or labour. It is in this particular view, 
of emolument of office, that magiftrates may 
be faid to be the fervants of the people, though 
when their authority, and not their maintenance, 
is r confidered, they may be faid to partake of 
fovereignty. 

The poffefllng of materials, or a fubject to 
fee improved for ufe by the (kill or labour of 
another, fuppofeth in the poffeflbr a right to 
prefcribe the manner in which that fkill is to 
be exercifed, or that labour performed ; and on 
allowing a certain rewafd or advantage to the 
man, thus employed, to appropriate to his 
(the pofleflbr's) own ufe the labour, or improv- 
ed materials. This fuperiority is balanced on 
the fide of the workman, by his being free to 
refute or accept the condition. It varies with 
the demand for labour, and with the number 

of 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 9 

of thofe, who offer themfelves to the work ; 
but mutual want and mutual utility is the band 
that connects them together. 

Similar to this, is the relation between the 
mechanic, or artizan, and his cuftomer. The 
artizan provides his own materials, and works 
for public: yet, though he fets his own 
price on his workmanfnip ; and the cuftomer, 
without having made a previous bargain, can 
only refufe or agree to the condition, the con- 
fideration of having given occafion for the 
employment, in moll: cafes, transfers the fupe- 
riority to the cuftomer. 

In the cafe of the learned professions, there 
is, indeed, fome variety ; but the like analogy 
of employment on the one fide, and encou- 
ragement on the l other, runs through the 
whole. Particular perfons ftudy, and make 
themfelves acquainted with fciences, that are 
generally ufeful, with a view of being employed 
bv the public, and of drawing a maintenance, 
and deriving diftincYion from the exercife of 
their feveral profellions. 

Religion, independent of its relation to the 
Supreme Being, is fo neceflary to fupply the 
defe£t of law, and to inforce obedience to 
government by the influence of confcience, 
that hitherto, in every polifhed (late, it has 
made a part of the conftitution j and becaufe it 
B 5 ii 



10 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

is apt to be perverted to bad purpofes, by ill 
defigning men, its profeflbrs have always been 
an important object of the public attention.*' 
They are fettled in every little corner of the (late 
as monitors, or cenfors of the people, and they 
have their maintenance afcertained out of the 
labours of thofe, whom they are appointed to 
exhort and inftrucl. Their fupport cannot, 
any more than that of the magiftrates, be left 
by government to the voluntary choice of the 
people, becaufe thofe, who mod need to be 
controuled by the miniilry of both, favour their 
inftitution leaft, and would be far from contri- 
buting willingly to their maintenance. It 
would be unjufl toexpe<5t, that the good citizen 
mould alone be taxed to fupport that magiftrate, 
whom the conduct of the bad renders efpecially 
neceffary ; or that the pious man alone mould 
contribute to maintain thai minifter, who, as 
far as refpe&s the ftate, is eftablifhed chiefly to 
moderate the profligacy of the vicious. The 
loweft members of the date, men infenfible of 
the neceffity o£ eftablimments, and generally 

unable 



* If it be objected, that the original conftitution of feveral 
of the American provinces is an exception; it may be anfwered, 
that thefe provinces were fettled under the protection of a 
ftate, of whofe conftitution an eftablifhed religion made an 
eflential part; and, at a period, when the hopes and fears of 
futurity had a general influence, independent of public efta- 
blifhments ; and that ehey have not had a length of time, or, 
till within thefe few laft years, been in circumfUnces to (hew 
the genuine effects of fuch a peculiarity. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. II 

unable to contribute to them, yet at the fame 
time objects of them, and pofleffing importance 
fufficient to demand the public care, are the 
great confideration in the inflitution of magi- 
ftrate and minifter. The public, therefore, 
rauft eflablifh equally, and maintain both. The 
clergy, by their eftablifhmenr, become fervants 
of the public, for promoting order and good 
conduct among the people, by the hopes and 
fears of religion. As fuch they have their 
duty prefcribed, and their maintenance, and 
rights, afcertained by law ; which fixes the 
limits of each, and prevents their encroach- 
ments. 

Men are fo attentive to whatever regards 
their health, or property ; and the emoluments, 
and diilin&ion, which accompany eminence in 
the profeflions relating to them, encourage fuch 
numbers to apply to them, that government has 
feldom been obliged to meddle with the practice 
of law or phyfic. A man applies to that phy~ 
fician, or lawyer, who has his confidence ; and 
he mull: exert {kill and addrefs to preferve that 
diftin&ion. Here the dependence and utility are 
reciprocal, and adequate to the purpofe. Thefe 
profeflions, though a confequence of fociety, 
yet refpect each man chiefly as an individual ; 
on this account, except in flagrant abufes, they 
are fafely left to private intereft ; and private 
exertion. But religion* in its eftablifhmenr, 

refpecting 



12 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

refpecYing chiefly public order, and private 
improvement only as far as it is fubfidiary to 
the other, its profeflbrs are confidered as auxili- 
aries to the magiftrate, and thus, being fervants 
of theftate, are fupportedat the public charge. 

In the profefhon of arms there is fomething 
more particular ; but flill the general analogy 
takes place. In it one part of the community 
comes under certain engagements for the prefer- 
vation of the whole ; but the exigency is 
fuppofed to be prefling, and the purpofe national. 
When it is neceflary to eftablifh an army, the 
foldier becomes obliged to obey his general. 
Here the foldier protects himfelf, his family, 
his country : and to do this with effe6t, he 
fubmits to fuch orders as are conducive to that 
end ; and in the exercife of his duty his country 
cares for, and maintains, him. He, therefore, 
is alfo the fervant of the public, and, as fuch, 
is employed, and maintained by it ; being as 
neceflary, in time of peace, to preferve the 
little police that licentioufnefs has fuffered to 
remain among us, as, in time of war, to 
defend us from our enemies. 

Now in the cafe of the laws, which refpe& 
government and people, the rule is general, 
fixed, and known, and equally binds the fove- 
reign and citizen. Prejudice, caprice, or 
intereft, cannot Tingle out an individual to 

tyrannize 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 13 

tyrannize over him. In the cafe of a family, 
its ftri£t union and afTe£tion bind it in one 
common intereft, and caufe the members to 
rejoice or fuffer together. In the cafe of the 
labourer or artizan, he being at liberty to 
accept or refufe an offer from a particular 
employer or cuftomer, and this laft being alfo 
free in making his agreement, and obliged to 
comply with it, when determined on ; thefe 
conditions fecure both parties equally from 
injury and oppreflionj In the learned profef- 
fions, the like circumftances produce fimilar 
effects. Even in the profeflion of arms an equa- 
lity is preferved in the compact, and fentiment 
and honours compensate for the refignation of 
fome of the privileges of citizenfhip. 

But in the arbitrary relation of matter and 
flave, no law reftrains the one, no election or 
compact fecures the other. The mailer may 
invade the deareft rights of humanity, and 
trample on the plaineil rules of juftice ; the 
flave cannot change his tyrant, or remonftrate 
againfl the impropriety, perhaps impoflibility, 
of his talk. 

The authority which men allow to the laws 
that govern them, has its foundation in general 
utility, and the reafon of things : and as all law 
is, or ought to be founded on our conflitution, it, 
according to what has been obfei ved, draws its 

ultimate 



14 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ultimate fancYion from the God of nature, and 
thus interefts conference in the obedience due 
to it. Here the equality and comprehenfivenefs 
of the rule fecure the individual from oppreflion ; 
he can be affected only together with the com- 
munity, or when he puts himfelf in the cafe 
forbidden generally by the law. Hence it is 
that all Bills of Attainder mufl carry oppreffion 
and injuftice in their very form, being calculated 
not for general utility or prevention, as laws 
mould be, but for particular deftru&ion ; not 
for guarding againfr, crimes, but for creating 
them. The deference claimed by the employer 
or cuflomer, and the refpecT: paid by, or to the 
learned profeflions, according to the rank of the 
perfons concerned, have their foundation in the 
regard fhewn to wealth, learning, or power; 
and their excefs is guarded againfl by the nature 
of the compact, and the power of affent lodged 
with the labourer, artizan, or inferior perfon. 
Now as far as the deference refpecYing the 
employer extends, it fuppofeth as real a fupe- 
riority, limited only in its operation to the 
defign thereof, as that of mafler over {lave ; and 
as it arifeth from the ranks into which fociety 
univerfally feparates men, it may be called focial 
fervitude, which muft take place in the freeft 
flate.* 

Here 

* In the coated between Britain and America, it may be 
remarked, that the friends of the Utter contended not for the 

equality 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 15 

Here the fervant makes his compact with the 
mafter, or fuperior, and frames it to agree 
with his feelings, and to fall in with his 
abilities ; and when the terms of his agreement 
are fulfilled, his time and his enjoyments are in 
his own power. But in the flavery of our 
colonies, the larger part of the community is 
literally facrificed to the lefs ; their time, their 
feelings, their perfons, are fubject to the intereft, 
the caprice, the fpite of mailers and their fubfti- 
tutes, without remedy, without recompence, 
without profpe6ts. This may be called artifi- 
cial fervitude, unprofitable to the public, bur- 
denfome even to the matter, intolerable to the 
fervant, repugnant to humanity. 

A law, for the purpofe of police, may direcl: 
the ftrength and induftry of the citizens to a 
particular object ; as when it encourages, by a 

temporary 

equality of men, confidered as individuals unconnected in 
fociety, till mutual benefit brought them together, and formed 
the ditlinttion of ranks; for in this light Americans have 
made as inconfiderate mailers to as miferable flaves as can 
any where be found. But they contended for the prefent 
actual equality of all men, with an exception to their own 
flaves. And again, to fupport the argument, th^ey were 
obliged to fuppofe fociety dilTolved, and men reduced to 
that folitary, favage ftate, where foch equality only can take 
place. For fociety cannot be maintained, even in idea, but 
by the inequality of condition, and the various ranks 
necefTarily arifing from the focial compact. — So eafy is it for 
men to take fuch parts of reafonicg as beft fuit their prefent 
purpofe. 



l6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

temporary monopoly, the eftablifhment of a 
certain ftaple or manufacture ; nay, for purpofes 
which refpe& the ftate, it may in certain points, 
and for a certain period, fubject the perfon of 
one man to another, as in forming an army. 
Rut we cannot fuppofe a law that fhall fubje£t 
the perfon of one man to the private 
purpofes of another, without once ftipulating 
the extent of the authority, the nature 
of the fervice, or the fufficiency of the 
recompence. Such a law, by putting, 
perhaps, the greater part of the commu- 
nity out of the protection of all law, would 
be inconfiftent with the notion of fociety. 
For the prime defign of fociety is the extenfion 
of the operation of law and the equal treatment 
and protection of the citizens. Slavery, there- 
fore, being the negation of law, cannot arife 
from law, or be compatible with it. As far as 
flavery prevails in any community, fo far mud 
that community be defective in anfwering the 
purpofes of fociety. And this we affirm to be 
in the higheft degree the cafe of our colonies. 
Slavery, indeed, in the manner wherein it is 
found there, is an unnatural ftate of opprefllon 
on the one fide, and of fuffering on the other ; 
and needs only to be laid open or expofed in its 
native colours, to command the abhorrence and 
oppofition of every man of feeling and fentiment. 

SECT, 



CONVERSION OT AFRICAN SLAVES. 17 

SECT. II. 

Mafter and Slave in ancient times. 

WE are taught, by the higher! authority, 
that Mofes adapted feveral of his inftitutions 
to the particular difpofition of his countrymen. 
He did not attempt to prohibit flavery among 
them, perhaps, becaufe they were not then more 
ripe for it, than for the indiflolubie band of ma- 
trimony; but while he allowed them to make 
(laves of the conquered Canaanites and their 
pofterity, he endeavoured to render their lot 
eafy, and the behaviour of matters humane. 
Indeed, in the early ages, it is a manner peculiar 
to him, and the Athenian legiflators, (of whom 
hereafter) to have paid in the cafe of fiaves a 
proper attention to the reierved and unalienable 
rights of human nature. 

He enacts, that there mould be one law, 
one rule of juflice for the native and for the 
ftranger; which is in direct oppofition to fome 
of our colony laws, where the evidence of even 
a free African will not be taken againft a white 
man. He fecures good ufage to the Have, by 
commanding, that if his mafter, in beating 
him, ftrike out but a Tingle tooth, he fhall have 
his freedom. He ordains the perfonal flavery 
of every Jew to terminate in the beginning 
of the feventh, or fabbatical year, whether 

near 



l8 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

near at hand, or diftant, when that commenced. 
He guards effectually againft a groveling flavifh 
fpirit among his people, by condemning him to 
perpetual flavery, who, inticed by kind treat- 
ment from his matter, mould mow a difregard 
of this noble privilege of the fabbatical year. 
He calls repeatedly on his people to remember, 
that they themfelves had been (laves in Egypt ; 
and, therefore, from motives of fellow-feeling 
(hould make the condition of their flaves eafy 
and agreeable to them. He bids them treat 
well flrangers of one country, becaufe they had 
been ftrangers in their land ; others, becaufe 
they were of the fame lineage with themfelves. 
He tells them, that the inftitution of a weekly 
fabbath had in contemplation, the benevolent 
purpofe of giving reft to the wearied flave, and 
a refpite from toil, even to the wearied ox. 

Among thofe nations that had not the light of 
revelation to direct their conduct, the Athenians 
deferve the firft place : they were indulgent, 
eafy, and kind to their flaves, when compared 
with their neighbours. And well this conde- 
fcenfion became^ people, who, by mere force 
of genius, advanced human nature much nearer 
to perfection than any other nation. That their 
good fenfe did not, in- every particular, carry 
them to that equality of behaviour towards their 
flaves, which humanity might expect, or bene- 
volence fuggeft, is not fo much to be wondered 

at, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. IQ 

at, as that they fhould be able to oppofe the 
example of all their neighbours for capricious 
feverity, and in the chief lines of their conduct 
refpecYing fuch ill-fated beings, mould give oc- ' 
cafion to the obfervation, that the life of a (lave 
at Athens was much happier than that of a 
freeman in any other Grecian (late. 

If Athenian flaves were treated with cruelty 
by their matters, they might claim protection 
in the Temple of Thefeus : there they remained 
in fafety till the fubjeQ: of complaint could be 
tried at law. Nor, in that cafe, did the law 
ruin, or refufe to relieve, thofe whom it pre^ 
tended to aiTitt ; for juftice was diftributed to 
rich and poor at the expence of the public. . If 
the complaint of the (lave was found to be jutt, 
the mailer was obliged to afiign over his fervice 
to fome other perfon. Slaves could demand an 
exchange of matters, if their matter had made 
any attempt on their chaftity. The law alfo 
gave them protection and remedy, in their own 
names and perfons, againft every injury that 
might have been done them by any citizen, not 
their matter. 

Athenian flaves were not rettrained in any of 
the common amufements of fociety. They 
were allowed to acquire property, on paying 
their matters a certain yearly rate. If able to 
purchafe their freedom, they might demand it 

of 



20 OK THE TREATMENT AND 

of their matter for a determined price. Their 
matters fometimes, the ttate often, rewarded 
their fervice and fidelity with freedom ; in par- 
ticular, after having been once employed irt 
•war, they were fure to be made free. Con- 
trary to the policy of modern times, the Athe- 
nians deemed no man fit to defend the ttate, but 
him who was worthy to be a member of it. 

The Athenians reaped the advantage of their 
moderation and humanity. For though, by the 
loweft calculation, their country contained 
three grown male flaves for one freeman, notice 
is taken, in their hiftory, .of only one infur- 
re&ion among their miners ; and once, in time 
of war, of a confiderable number who deferted 
from their matters, and abandoned the country. 
On the other hand, their neighbours, the Spar- 
tans, who, through a wantonly cruel policy, 
were continually harafling, ill treating, op- 
prefling, nay, to keep their hands accuftomed 
to blood, butchering their flaves, were held in 
conftant alarms by them, and often were brought 
into extreme danger, by their defperate at- 
tempts to regain their liberty. Yet the con- 
dition of flaves among the Spartans, from the 
cir.cumttance of their being generally the pro- 
perty of the public, and attached to the foil, 
more readily admitted of univerfal relaxation 
and indulgence, than it did among the Athenians, 
where they were chiefly private property. 

There 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 21 

There, is fuch a conformity, not only in 
thefe, but other particulars, between the laws 
of Mofes, ena£ted during the fabulous ages of 
Greece, and thefe laws, eftablifhed in its im- 
proved date, long after that time, by a people 
defervedly celebrated, as the befl cultivated, 
the moft fenfible, and humane among the an- 
cient nations, as might have fecured to that 
great man a little more refpecl: than he in com- 
mon meets with, among the wits and reafoners 
of the prefent age ; who, while they deny his 
divine million, in that denial, mud acknowledge 
his forefight, his benevolence, his knowledge of 
the human heart, above every character in an- 
tiquity. For his laws continue, at this day, 
to be obeyed by a conliderable people, in the 
mod inconvenient circumflances, while all other 
laws of former ages are loft in the gulph of 
time, or are only to be found in fragments in 
old neglected books. * 

In the infant ftate of Rome, (laves worked, 
and lived with their mailers, without much 

diftinclion 

* Even the law that sbfolves a mafter for flaying his Have, 
in the cafe of his not dying till two days after the ftroke, bears 
a ftrong analogy to that tende" nefs in the common law of 
England, that diftinguifh.es between homicide and murder, 
and, as it were loth to find the culprit guilty, t2kes the dead- 
iinefs of the weapon into account ; and it fhews, that among 
the Jews, the magiftrate interpofed between the mafter and 
his flave ; which, in fome of our colonies, has not been the 
cafe," even when (hocking cirtamftances of murder have 
Uudly called for it. 



22 ON T-HE TREATMENT AND" 

diflinction of rank or ufage. But in proportion 
as luxury increafed among the Romans, the 
condition of their flaves funk gradually down to 
the lovveft degree of wretchednefs and mifery. 
And indeed fuch reprefentations as the flatue of 
the dying gladiator, which exhibits the life of 
a brave ufeful man facrificed, not to the fafety 
of his country, but to the barbarous whim of, 
perhaps, the mod worthless fet of men that 
ever were aflembled together in one place ; * 
the fcandalous traffic that the elder Cato carried 
on in the natural feelings of his Haves, his 
fetting them adrift to flarve in their old age,f 

when 

* In what an amiable point of view" doth the following 
incident place the Athenians, even in their latter degenerate 
ftate ? Some fycophants of the Romans, then their mailers, 
had propofed to them, in a public aflembly, to imitate their 
lords, in the exhibition of (hows of prize fighters, and gladi- 
ators in their theatres. A worthy citizen, who was prefent, 
affected to applaud the flattering meafure, and requefted his 
fellow-citizens only firft to accompany him and help him to 
throw down the altar, which, in their better times, they had 
erefled .to mercy. That fenfible people felt immediately the 
grave rebuke ; and were the only Hate in Greece, that had 
courage to forbear imitating the barbarity of their conquerors. 

•f* How inconfiftent with himfelf is man. He, who, in his 
own conduct, could debafe himfelf by fuch acts of meannefs 
and cruelty, when Cenfor, degraded Lucius, the brother of 
Flaminius, becaufe he had indulged the capricious curiofity of 
a favourite boy, with the fcene of a man dying a violent death, 
in the perfoh of a flave, whom, for that purpofe, he flew 
with his own hand. — The traffic referred to above, was his 
locking up his female flaves, and hiring them out, by the 
night, to fuch males as could lay down a certain price for 
them. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2J 

when they could no longer be ferviceable to 
him, the condemning of them to fifh-ponds for 
trivial faults ; all thefe things muft fill every 
reflecting man with fuch abhorrence of, and in- 
dignation at, the conduct of the Romans, in 
the character of matters, in their advanced 
flate of empire, as muft prove them unworthy 
of being drawn into example, except to be ex- 
ecrated for their conduct. While they fancied 
themfelves lords of the world, they forgot that 
they were men; while they indulged their 
amufement, they ftifled their humanity. In- 
deed, what could be expected from a people 
capable of receiving a law, that, according to 
the ufual interpretation of it, in a cafe of in- 
folvency, ordained a fellow-citizen to be cut 
piece-meal, and be divided among his creditors ? 

But how miferable the condition 6f (laves in 
general was among the ancients, may be col- 
lected from the opinion and example of that 
benevolent and difcreet philofopher, Plutarch, 
who yet has very freely cenfured the inhuman 
behaviour of others. He allures us, that the 
only effectual way of managing a (lave is by 
the difcipline of the whip ; that a Have is in- 
capable of underftanding any arguments, except 
ftripes, and a chain. And agreeably to this 
opinion he is introduced to us, as in a cha- 
racteriftic action of his life, fhewing how coolly 
a philofopher could flea the back of a poor 

friendlefs^ 



24 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

friendlefs, helplefs wretch. * Farther, De- 
mofthenes, who, in every thing refpe&ing the 
freedom, and character of his country, feems 
infpired with the very genius of liberty, lays it 
down as a maxim not to be controverted, that 
the highefl evidence, and teftimony moft to be 
depended on, is what is forced out of a (lave 
by torture. 

Adrian is the firft on record, who, by an 
edi&, deprived the matter of the power of life 
and death in his family. As the benevolence of 
the Chriftian religion, about his time, had fe- 
cretly, "yet univerfally, infinuated itfelf into 
the fentiments, and tinctured the reafoning, of 
the learned ; and as he was more fond of the 
* ' title 

* The hittory is this : He had ordered the Have to be cor* 
refted. The fellow muttered ; and obferved, that a man, 
like his matter, who pretended to a£t the Philofopher, and to 
hold all his paflions and afFe&ions equally poifed, behaved in 
a manner unbecoming his character, when, on any poflible 
provocation, he fell into fuch a paffion with a poor flave, as 
could be fatiated only by (lathing and cutting him unmercifully 
with a whip. Plutarch, quibbling with the wretch, observes, 
in anfwer, that pafiion generally had marks by which its pre- 
fence was denoted : an elevated tone, a flufhing countenance, 
a threatening look ; could he have any of thefe, or the vio- 
lence that they exprefled, who argued the matter with all the 
calmnefs of a ftoic. And as the executioner had interrupted 
his ftrokes, waiting for the iiTue of the difcourfe, he coolly 
bids him proceed in his method of inculcating knowledge by 
the whip, while he and Syrus difcufled the fubjett philofo- 
phlcally. But a man muft have fpent fome time in the 
fouthern provinces of North Americn, or our fugar colonies, 
to be able to imagine the fcene- 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2$ 

title of Philofopher than of Fmperor, it is 
beyond conjecture, that this edict, at that par- 
ticular time, owed its origin to revealed religion ; 
and within a fhort period after this, perfonal 
flavery, by the fame influence, was abolifhed 
throughout the empire. * 

SECT. III. 

Mafler and Slave in Gothic 'Times. 

THE inundation of the northern nations, 
that broke into the Roman Empire, and the 
feudal tenures that were introduced by it, gave 
rife to a new fpecies of flavery in Europe, the 
remains of which are yet to be found, parti- 
cularly 

* Rayaall aflTerts, that the abolition of flavery and Paga» 
nifm, by edict, in the time of Conftantine, brought on the 
ruin of the Roman Empire. Doubtlefs every violent change 
in a ftate, mull bring danger with it. But, perhaps, it will 
be difficult for any, but a modern philofopher, who follows 
Hume in his paradoxes, to conceive how the extenfion of 
fentiment and freedom fhould fpread ruin among a people. 
That empire had begun to nod to its fall, long before this 
change could have produced any effect. The univerfal de- 
generacy of manners, the contempt of religion, the prevalence 
of Epicurean notions, the difregard of national character, the 
effeminacy of the foldiers, their Jofs of difcipline, the inftabi- 
lity of the government, and the natural courfe of human 
grandeur, are fufficient to account for the downfal of that 
fabric, under the rude Ihock of furrounding favages. That 
Chriftianity produced this effect of abolifhing flavery, le the 
opinion alfo of Fletcher; for which fee Sect. IV. of this 
chapter. 

c 



26 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

cularly in Denmark and Poland. But it ap- 
pears, that, in general, this flavery conilfted in 
obliging the conquered nations to cultivate their 
own lands, and render to the conquerors fuch a 
part of the produce as they thought proper to 
afcertain. This condition naturally connected 
the labourers with the foil which they culti- 
vated ; and ir rofe into a cuftom to transfer 
them together from one proprietor to another : 
and, doubtlefs, there were many reduced alfo to 
the condition of domeftic flaves. But, like the 
Swediih prisoners made at the battle of Pultowa, 
ihey became the teachers and reformers of their 
iioailers. And as thefe were by degrees con- 
verted to religion and won to civilized life, fo 
this Hate of fubordination went on approaching 
gradually to the condition of equality, or rather 
of that reciprocal focial dependence, which we 
have fhewn mull exiil between the fervant and 
matter. And among the many fad things that 
we every day hear of popes, priefts, and prieft- 
craft, this miifl: be acknowledged to their credit, 
( they are indeed charged with it by their ene- 
mies) that their influence was conftantly ufed 
with the converts, to procure the manumiflion, 
or at lead the humane treatment of their flaves. 
Such has been conflantly the natural eft eel of 
ChriiVianity, in every poffible form, to favour 
peribnal as well as mental liberty, till the 
gradual improvement of fociety, the extenfion 
of fentiment, and fluctuation of property, be- 
come 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 27 

come fufficient to change perfonal flavery into 
a voluntary compact of fervice and fidelity on 
the one fide, of wages and protection on the 
other : a compact, which fuppofeth that ttate 
of mutual dependence eflential to poliihed fo- 
ciety, and which may be confidered as entering 
originally into the plan thereof, and I trutt is 
not intirely out of fight in the cafe of which 
we treat.* 

Indeed this latter flavery, in its word flate, 
mutt, after the converfion of the matters, have 
been far preferable to the ancient flavery of the 
heathens, or the modern flavery of the negroes 
in the European colonies. The Chriftian fUves 
of Chriftian matters were confidered as entitled 
to certain rights, on which a matter could not 
encroach : particularly, the making of the ce- 
remony of marriage a religious folemnity, and 
its obligations of confequence indifibluble, ex- 
cept by death, drew after it all the claims and 
rights of a family. Their worfhipping at the 
fame altar, and their being confidered as entitled, 
equally with their matters, to all the fpiritual 
advantages annexed to the profefTion of Chrifti- 
anity, were circumttances which the prietts 
were careful to ufe to the beft advantage in 

their 

* The Banians in India are at this day, fupplied with 
flaves from Abyfiinia. But as loon as they are brought home, 
they are treated as children of the family ; they are inftrucled 
in fome ufeful trade ; they are allowed to raife families, and 
maintain them with the profits of their labour, with which 
the maiter meddles not. 

C 2 



a$ ON THE TREATMENT AND 

their favour : and, in an age, wherein the pro- 
mifes and threats of religion influenced, at 
lead, the outward condud of the people, and 
its doctrines made generally a part of the reason- 
ing in ufe ; f when its ministers were held in 
honour, and their injunctions carried with them 
reverence and authority for their Matter's fake, 
thefe were effectual and prevailing topics. The 
people alfo reaped advantages from thefe dif- 
putes between the kings and their barons* 
Kings favoured the liberty of burghers and 
peafants, becaufe every individual abfolved of his 
allegiance to a baron, was an auxiliary detached 
from an enemy or rival lord, f 

Had Europe, as a much diftinguifhed quar- 
ter of the globe, reaped no other fecial advantage 
from the eftablifhment of Chriftianity than the 

abolition 

•* This Is exceedingly well exemplified in what is called the 
truce of God or the church, when the fabbaihs, and folemn 
times, and fcftivals of the church, gave a refpite to thofe cruel 
depredations and murders that each village-tyrant or lord of a 
caftle, thofe former felf-erecled legiflators, thought himfelf 
permitted, at other times, to perpetrate among his neighbours. 
•p Though, in many cafes, this was only changing one ty- 
rant for another ; yet the people favoured the racafure, becaufe 
they have conllantly found an oppreffor intolerable in the in- 
verfe ratio of his rank and extent of power. " A poor man, 
«« oppreffing the poor," faith Solomon, u is like a fweeping 
** rain," he leaves no food. To give fecurity to the members 
of any ftate, the community mull be of that extent and power 
which will make it refpeclable among its neighbours. $ and its 
governors mult be removed fo far. from the level of other ci- 
tizens, that private intereft or refentmtnt may not fcnfibly in- 
fluence their public conduct, Bui this can hardly ever be 
the cafe in fmall dates. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1Q 

abolition of flavery, this benefit alone would 
have been immenfe ; the fuperiority gained by 
it over the reft of the world would have been 
incredible. And with what fhame and forrow 
mud we remark, that fhe, who has been raifed 
fo high above her fellows, by the influence of 
this heaven-defcended liberty, at this day is, 
and, for more than two centuries paft, has been, 
ftriving with all the venturous energy of a com- 
mercial fpirit, to eftablifh flavery in the ne\« 
world ; in a region, where the curfe of flavery 
was unknown, till, through an infernal love of 
gold, {he introduced and fixed it t But when 
the Englifh, (for though the Portuguefe and 
Spaniards had tranfported Africans more early 
to their American fettlements ; yet Hawk- 
ins, an Englishman, is faid firft to have given 
occafion for the prefent inhuman trade) a nation 
moil: highly favoured of liberty, is viewed as 
taking the lead in this odious traffic, and as bend- 
ing down the foul in utter darknefs, the more 
effectually to enilave the body ; freedom mult 
blufh indignantly, while humanity mourns over 
the reproachful tale. * Would Qod we might 

indulge 

* It muft fill the reader with very ferious reflections, to be 
told, that, fince the year 1759, the Britifh African trade has 
been, in a great proportfon, turned to the fupp'ying of the 
French iflands with flaves. This has given a mod rapid im- 
provement to their fugar plantations ; and there is laid a 
foundation for fuch a naval force, as if not guarded againfr. in- 
time may avenge humanity on our nation for this (hocking 
traffic, which it has carried on to a greater extent than all the 
reft of Europe, with peculiar circumftanccs of barbarity andt 
cruelty. 



30 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

indulge the hope, that the fame people, who firffc 
riveted, might alfo firfl cut afunder, the iron chain 
which difgraces our nature and nation, in the 
weftern world ; and that a people, who have 
rifqued their own exiftence, frequently, as a 
ilate, to keep one continental tyrant from rid- 
ding the world of another, might at laft have 
wifdom to render themfelves rich and powerful, 
by reitoring to liberty, and recovering to fociety 
and reafon, the exiled fons of Africa.* 

But 

* In the month of March 1783, the following circumftances 
came out in the trial of a cafe of infurance at Guildhall. 
Aa ignorant matter of a flave-lhip had overfhot his port, Ja- 
maica, and was afraid of wanting water before he could beat 
up again to the ifland. He htmfelf fell fick. In the courfe 
of his iilnefs, he ordered his mate, who was the man that 
gave the evidence, to throw overboard 46 flaves, hand-cuffed ; 
and he was readily obeyed. Two days after he ordered 36 
more to be thrown after them, and after two days more 
another parcel of 40. Ten others, who had been permitted 
to take the air on deck, unfettered, jumped into the fea in- 
dignantly after them. The (hip, after all, brought into port 
480 gallons of water. Can humanity imagine that it was 
meant, in any pofilble circumftances, to fubmit the fate of 
fuch numbers of reafonable creatures to the reveries of a fick 
monfter ; or that his brutal instrument fhould dare to boaft of 
his obedience, and even do it with impunity, in the higheil 
criminal court of the beft informed people of Europe > 

The Incas of Peru conquered to polifh and improve. When 
they came to a brutith people, who could not readily appre- 
hend their inftru&ionr, Let us turn, faid they, from thefe in- 
corrigible animals, and feek out a people worthy of being our 
fcholars. The favages of America are fo wholly without the 
conception of the poiTibility ©f one man's beifig fubmitted to 

the 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 3T 

But before I confider flavery as it has been 
introduced and eftablifhed by Europeans in the 
weftern world, I fhall lay before the reader a 
plan of that celebrated friend to liberty, Fletcher, 
of Saltoun, for reducing his country back into 
the ancient ftate of mailer and flave, in order 
to obviate fome temporary inconveniences ima- 
gined to arife from freedom. And as he doe> 
this with an appearance of reafoning, and, in- 
deed, fuggefts things that would be exceedingly 
proper to be attended to, in the flrft dawnings 

of 

the will of another, that they know no medium between 
roafting their prifoners, and adopting them into their families.. 
The Europeans, fettled in the fame country, could traverfe 
the vail Atlantic to traffic for, enflave, and fell, wretches un- 
known to them, who never injured them; nay, could keep 
working in iron chains their own unhappy countrymen fent 
among them : while they boaft of having vindicated for them- 
felves, as the natural inheritance of fieedom, a total inde- 
pendence on all authority not originating from themfelves. 
Reafon, as found in practice among men, is but a name, when 
feparated from interelt. — It is but juftice due to the Weft 
Indian proprietors to obferve, that the planters of tobacco and 
rice, in America, in common, not only treated their African 
(laves and Englifh convict, but even fober, honeft people 
who, to pay for their paffage from Europe, had been obliged 
to fell their fervice for five years, With full as much fcVerity 
as was practiied only on Africans in the fugar iflands ; « n d 
what was inexcufable, in a country where provifions coft la- 
bour only, even pinched them in their food. Indented fervants 
were tied up, and lafhed cruelly on the moft trifling occafions. 
They were made to drag iron rings of ten or twelve pounds 
weight, hammered round their ancles, and fleep as they could 
with heavy iron chains and crooks round their necks. 



32 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

of liberty ; I {hall at once confider his propofal, 
and add fuch obfervations as naturally arife from 
it. 

SECT. IV. 

Mafier and Slave, as propofed for Scotland, 
Anno 1698. 

SOON after the revolution, Scotland was af- 
flicted with four or five fuccefllve unfruitful 
years, that, in its then improvident method of 
agriculture, reduced it to a ftate of famine, 
which is (till remembered under the name of 
the Dear Tears. Many died of want, and 
thoufands, all over the country, were reduced to 
beggary ; the Highlanders, efpecially, fuffered 
greatly, and came down and overfpread the low- 
lands ; and, where they did not fucceed by 
begging, made no fcruple to (leal and rob, to 
fupply their wants. In this fituation of things, 
when the poor were numerous, few manu- 
factures eflabliflied, and the fifheries lay ne- 
glected, did Fletcher propofe his plan of flavery, 
founding it on a flatute enacted Anno 1579, 
which empowered any fubject of fufficient eftate 
to take the child of any beggar, and educate 
him for his own fervice, for a certain term of 
years, which term was extended Anno 1597 
for life. 

He 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 33 

He obferves, that hi {lory makes no mention 
of poor or beggars in ancient times, becaufe all 
the poor, being flaves, were maintained by their 
own matters. He fays, no modern (late, except 
Holland, by the aid of its manufactures, has 
been able to employ or maintain its poor : that 
this new burthen has been brought on fociety 
by churchmen, who either by miftake or deilgn 
have confounded things fpiritual and * temporal, 
and all good order, and good government, by 
recommending it to matters to fave their fouls, 
by fetting at liberty fuch of their flaves as fhould 
embrace the Chrittian faith ; in contradiction to 
our Saviour* who was far from ufing temporal 
advantages to enforce eternal truths ; and to 
St. Paul, who, 1 Cor. vii. pofnively gives the 
preference to flavery. Heaice we date hofpitals, 
alms-houfes, and contributions ; burdens, which, 
we find fo heavy on the community, and fo- 
inadequate to the purpofe. 

He ttates the common objections urged againfl 
flavery ; that men are equal by nature ; that it 
is unjuft to fubmit the feelings and happinefs of 
the major part of a community, to the opprefTion 
and barbarity of the few ; and that the tyrant, 
who enflaves his country, has the fame plea for 
profecuting his ambitious views, that a rich 
man can offer for bringing his fellows into bon- 
bage to him. 

C 5 Hs 



34 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

He anfwers thefe by diftinguilhing between 
political and domeflic flavery, affirming that the 
latter has been difgraced, by having been con- 
founded with the other, which alone deferves 
the name of flavery, as being fubmitted, not to 
law, which may regulate domeflic flavery, but 
to a jealous tyrant's caprice : that it is the 
intereft of every matter to ufe his flaves well, 
in order that he may reap the full advantage of 
their labour : that occafional deviations from 
the fuggeflions of this prudence may be pre- 
vented by proper laws and regulations, and by 
the watchful care of a judge appointed for that 
purpofe. 

He fhews the advantages which would accom- 
pany this eftablifhment, by ftating what was 
the cafe in ancient times. The ancients had no 
poor caft loofe on the public. They could, 
without poflefling much other wealth, under- 
take, with their flaves, great public and private 
works : and this manner of employing their 
flaves and their wealth, preferved among them 
a fimplicity of manners, and living, not other- 
wife to be accounted for. Matters knew 
nothing of the vexation of hired fervants, who, 
after having been educated at a great expence 
for a man's fervice, will leave him on the mod 
trifling occafion. Their flaves, in hopes of 
obtaining their liberty, had an emulation to 
pleafe j and their being able to poflefs nothing, 

took 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 35 

took away that temptation to pilfer, fo com- 
monly the propenfity of hired fervants, and, 
indeed, fometimes rendered neceflary for them 
to fupport their families. - 

He propofeth that vagabonds, and fuch poor 
as cannot maintain themfelves, be proportioned 
out to men of a certain eftate, to be employed in 
their grounds, that their children be brought 
up to fuch ufeful manufactures as can be carried 
on at home ; and that the public may not, in 
any cafe, lofe the benefit of their labour, they 
and their children (hall be transferable for ever. * 

He 

* Vagabond beggars are a nuifance which call loudly for 
redrefs, and which every well regulated fociety will exerfc 
itfelf to get rid of. Let every vagabond be confidered as the 
property of the public. Let a day be fixed, by proclamation., 
for apprehending them throughout the kingdom. Let their 
fervice be fold for feven years to fuch as have employment for 
them. Let the money got for the ftrong be given with the 
weak. If, at the expiration of their flaveryj they fhew a dif~ 
pofition to fettle, and csn make a private bargain with any 
reponfible perfon, who will anfwer to the public for thefr* 
behaviour, and will take them to work on the footing of free 
labourers, let them be difcharged. This will excite them to 
be honeft and faithful. Slavery, except for a crime that forfeits 
life, fhould not be for life, that it may not perpetuate flavery 
in their children. Every vagabond child rtiould be brought uj> 
to fome ufeful calling, and be free at thirty years of age. 
They all, when reftored to freedom, (hould be allowed & 
fettlement. 

A particular magistrate (hould fuperintend their treatment, 
hear, and decide on their and their mailers complaints. If 
at the terr$ipa.iion of any period of flavery, they be found un- 
worthy 



56 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

He thinks the mailer mould not have power 
over the life of his fervant, but fhould anfwer 
for it with his own. He mould not torture or 
mutilate him : if convicted of fuch ill treatment^ 
he fiiouid free his (lave, and fix a penfion on 

him* 

worthy of freedom, let them be fold anew. If purchafers 
do not offer, let them be divided by lot, and their children 
be apprentices. Coaife, wholefome food fhould be allotted 
them, the kind and minimum being fixed by law. 

If parifhes were obliged to improve their commons, there 
would be full employment for them ; and every thief, being 
firfl marked, fhould be added to the number.. When restored, 
to freedom, they might have a cottage and garden given them, 
in full right, which they may prepare during the time of their 
fervitude, !* 

Such a (late would be far beyond the condition of a vaga- 
bond, a wretch, that regards neither divine nor human law?, 
but. wallows in every impurity and low vice. Thefe regula- 
tions, properly purfued for one generation, would annihilate 
the evil ; the very dread of being fold, and working at the 
will of another,, would recover the greateft part of them to 
labour and fociety. But this remedy fbould be ftrittly con- 
fined to thieves and vagabonds, and only while they continued 
fuch. 

At prefent our poor laws are calculated to encourage Iazinefs, 
by fuppoiting an idle man in as much plenty as him who labours 
and gets his bread honellly. When fick, the poor fhould 
be tenderly cared for; but when only idle they fhould have a 
feanty coarle fare, and clothes made up of patches, to make 
their fituation irkfome to them. T'hofe that have large fami- 
lies fhould have every reafonable indulgence, and the burden 
of their children fhould be made eafy to them. All fingle 
ilrollers fhould be ftri&ly dealt with. Wherever the indolence 
of thofe that are fupported by charity is fufpe&ed, their pit- 
tance fhould not be given in money, but in food, from day to 
day 5 and there fhould, as in hofpitals, be retetof full, half,. 
acd third allowance* 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 37 

him. The fervant's family fhould be provided 
for in clothes, diet, and lodging. His children 
fhould be inftru&ed in the principles of morality 
and religion, be taught to read, and be furnifhed 
with proper books. They fhall not work on 
Sundays ; but have liberty to go to church. In 
every circumttance, but that of not poflefling 
property, and their labour being directed at the 
will of another, they fhall not be under the rule 
of their matters, but the protection of the law. 
When grown, by age, ufelefs to their 
matters, they fhall be received into public 
hofpitals. If their matter, on any account^ 
make them free, he fhall either accommodate 
them with a penfion, or put them in a way of 
living, that will keep them from becoming bur- 
denfom^ to the public. To check the abufe of 
power in the matter, a magiftrate fhould 
be appointed to fee that juftice be done them. 

Now, however inadmiflible fuch a ftate of 
fervitude may be, in a country where liberty is 
the ettablifhed birth-right of the loweft member 
of the community, yet, would heaven, that the 
flavery in our fugar colonies were only what is 
here propofed. We mutt then drop many of 
our objections againft it. Still the arguments 
againft this degree of it are unanfwerable. 

He fuppofeth that a fenfe of interett will pre- 
vent the abufe of power in the matter. There 

cannot 



38 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

cannot be a fairer deduction in theory, (which 
was all that he could have to go upon) nor is 
there one more falfe in fa6b. Even fhould we 
afcribe the treatment which Africans meet with 
from their matters, not wholly to an abufe of 
power, but, in fome meafure, alfo to a perfua- 
fion, whether it be true or falfe, that becaufe 
of their inferiority we are not obliged to treat 
them well ; how comes it that fober, indented, 
white fervants, are treated with equal, perhaps 
fuperior cruelty by their North American 
mailers ; in confequence of which, not more 
than one in five furvives even a temporary 
flavery of five years, in a condition to fettle a 
habitation and family for himfelf ? Revenge 
for contradiction or faults in an inferior, whe- 
ther real or imagined, will not allow the cooler 
affections of the mind to operate, but drives at 
once, like an eagle on its helplefs prey, heedlefs 
how far the avenger himfelf may be involved 
in the mifchief. 

Nor, though his magiftrate be an exceeding 
proper and neceffary check, would he, or could 
he, if ever fo impartial and watchful, be able to 
enfure good ufage to fervants, from the igno- 
rant, the parfimonious, the luxurious, the extra- 
vagant, the capricious, the paflionate, thefpiteful 
matter. In a thoufand ways may they be, 
and they daily are, tormented, which no law 
can provide againfl, no care can poflibly remedy. 

His 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 39 

His diftinction between political and domeflic 
flavery, except wherein they refpecl: different 
objects, is imaginary and inconclufive, when 
applied to individuals ; or whatever difference 
there is, will be found to conclude againft the 
latter. The great tyrant has not the opportu- 
nity of exercifing his luft of oppreflion over 
individuals, except they fland oppofed to his 
power ; and a quiet man may, in an extenfive 
country, pafs his time tolerably eafy and 
fecure under the mofl arbitrary government. 
But the domeflic tyrant can teafe and torment 
every wretch fubmitted to his power, every 
moment of their lives. They cannot eat or 
fleep, but when and how he pleafeth. Every 
feeling, every indulgence, is held at his plea- 
fure ; and too often he feels a fpiteful amufement, 
an infernal delight, in unnecefTarily imbittering 
their mi ferable cup, even at the expence of his 
own eafe and interefl. 

That the heavenly Preacher of peace and 
good will towards men, fhould be fuppofed to 
have encouraged an unnatural ftate of fociety, 
which, in its very inftitution, mufl: counteract 
in the fuperior every benevolent inclination 
from man to man ; and mufl go far to fupprefs 
in the inferior every defire after that intellectual 
improvement, and heavenly happinefs, to point 
out the way to which was the very defign of his 
humiliation 3 is fuch blafphemy againft the divine 

goodnefs 



40 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

goodnefs and condefcenfion of his miflion, and 
is fo flatly contradicted by the whole tenor of 
his doctrine, as to be utterly unworthy of any 
anfwer. St. Paul again is prefled into the fer- 
vice of flavery, againft the plain grammatical 
fenfe of the expreffion in the original, and the 
whole fcope of his argument : of fo much more 
weight than truth is the driving of a favourite 
point. After -generally remarking, that, not- 
withstanding any fuppofed particular inconve- 
niences, political happinefs, by the extenfion of 
freedom, has been extended far beyond what 
the warmeft imagination could conceive ; we 
may allow churchmen in the company of 
their Mafter and his apcflle, to reft fatisfied 
with the blame of having been the means of 
abolifhing flavery ; and may hope that this 
writer's authority, in this cafe, may {land them 
in fome ftead againft that more general reproach 
caft on them of their being. the worfhippers of 
power in whatever hands it is found. 

By depriving a fervant of property, as he 
propofes, we know, that, in fa£t, you make 
him carelefs and defperate. The beft way of 
fecuring his fidelity and honefty, is to contrive 
that he may have property to care for and fear 
the lofs of. If a Have has deferted the planta- 
tion, the mod eiFe&ual way to bring him back 
is to give out, that you mean, if he does not 
return, by fuch a day, to pull his houfe down. 

He 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 41 

He remarks that the Highlanders of his days were 
favage thieves and beggars, becaufe fubject to 
their chieftans ; and would not his eftablifhment 
of the like fubjection in the civilized low-lands, 
in time produce the like effects ? A Chriflian. 
would refolve the filence concerning the poor in 
the heathen world, to their not being deemed an 
object either of hiflory or philofophy ; or to 
that common tie between man and man, which 
revelation inculcates, not being then acknow- 
ledged, to make the relief of their diftrefs a 
matter of duty or merit. 

But if no poor were then fupported by pri- 
vate benevolence, was no mifery therefore felt ?' 
What were the early feditions at Rome, but 
druggies between wealth and poverty, till war 
and diftant cOnquefl had enriched or drawn off 
the oppreffed ffarving multitude ? Indeed, where 
was there room left for public beggars, when the 
poor were flaves, and had only their matters to 
whom to cry for help ? Yet the elder Cato 
turned out fome beggars on the public, in a 
manner not greatly to his credit. Among the 
Jews, the rigours of flavery were foftened by 
religion ; and there the poor, from the firfl, 
were an object of law. Their law-givers in- 
formed them, that in their mofl flourifhing (late, 
there fhould be always poor among them, 
whom they were to confider as the Lord's 
penfioners, who were in his name to receive, 

from 



42 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

from their wealthy neighbours, that tribute of 
grateful thanks which his goodnefs claimed from 
them. And, doubtlefs, had this duty been pro- 
pofed, from the like motives, in other dates, 
proper obje&s of it would not have been found 
wanting. 

A better reafon to be given for the fimpli- 
city of the ancient manner of living may be 
found in the link communication which there 
was berva^u different countries for the purpofe 
of exchanging modes and fuperfluities. Thofe 
who live now on the produce of their own 
grounds, live as uniformly, and fimply as the 
ancients did. But was the Roman mode fimple 
after the conqueft of Afia ? He mentions the 
public works of the ancients. Do we know thofe 
of any flate that in grandeur or utility may be 
compared to the floating fortrefTes of Britain, 
which carry the arms and power of the (late 
around the world ? 

Why the public mould build hofpitals to 
receive {laves, worn down in the fervice of 
private perfons, he gives not a reafon ; nor is 
any obvious. If the ancients were not troubled 
with the reftlefs ingratitude and pilfering habits 
of hired fervants, did they feel no inconveniency 
from the fullen intractable difpofition of flaves, 
whom they could not get rid of? Or, if the 
defire of freedom excited the emulation of a 

flave, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 43 

{lave, would it not make him alfo feel the im- 
mediate hardfhips of flavery ? would he not, 
with defpair, look around him, and view 
many flaves transferred from one mafter to 
another ; often from good to bad, without 
acquiring that liberty which they had endea- 
voured to deferve by their fidelity ? and would 
he not anticipate the like fate, and lofe all 
defire of exertion ? Is not this indeed the gene- 
ral cafe, at this day, in the fugar colonies ? 

Fletcher fuppofes that neceffity will drive his 
country into the meafure of flavery. It is near 
a century fince he hazarded this opinion ; and in- 
ftead thereof, by the abolifhing of jurifdi&ions, 
more liberty, and greater privileges have been 
communicated to it : and the confequence has 
been a more general extenfion of political hap- 
pinefs, and private conveniency. Had his plan 
taken place, would fo many towns have arifen, 
or been enlarged in various parts of the country ? 
Should we have heard of the manufactures at 
Paifly ? Could Glafgow have been able to have 
endured a lofs (even fuppofing it only temporary) 
of perhaps a million of money, by American 
independency, almofl without once complain- 
ing ? Would a few overgrown landlords have 
.allowed the Britifh army and navy to have 
been filled up and recruited out of their gangs 
of flaves, by the many ten thoufands of Scotch- 
men, that in every war, fince his time, have 

bled 



v 



44 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

bled fometimes for the rights of the empire, 
fometimes to quiet the popular alarms, about 
that bugbear, the balance of power ? Would 
opprefTed, half ttarved flaves have made fuch 
hardy foldiers ; or, like them, endured, with- 
out complaint, every various oppofite climate, 
in carrying on the public fervice ? 

It is true Scotland ftill labours under difad- 
vantages. The tenant is not fufficiently fecured 
againft the extortion of the landlord. But what 
would be gained by reducing a great porportion 
of thefe tenants and their poflerity into the 
condition of flaves ? Would they be allowed to 
live plentifully, when their lords wanted to pa- 
rade it at court ? Or are luxury and extrava- 
gance to be fatisfied, while any thing within 
their reach remains to be devoured ? If flavery 
had been eftabliftied on his plan, would not 
power and intrigue have been ufed, to draw 
within its circle as many as poflible, till matter 
and (lave had abforbed every other rank ? No, 
let lazinefs and vice be effectually retrained, 
even by retraining that liberty and privileges 
which they juftly forfeit. But fet not one man 
paramount over another. Let their country 
and its laws remain matters of their fate. 

SECT. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 45 

SECT. V. 

Mafler and Slave in the French Colonies, 

I N the French colonies, the public pays an 
immediate attention to the treatment and in- 
ftru&ion of flaves. The intendants are charged 
with their protection, proper miflionaries are 
appointed for the purpofe of training them up 
to a certain degree of religious knowledge ; and 
ample eftates or funds are allotted for the main- 
tenance of thofe eccleliaftics. The negroes, as 
foon as introduced into the colony, are put under 
the care of thefe laft. The matter is obliged to 
acquaint the governor or intendant, within eight 
days, of every African (lave whom he has pur- 
chafed, that a miffionary may be afllgned to in- 
flru£t him. All the fails and feflivals of the 
Romifh church, which it is. well known are 
very numerous, are commanded to be ftri&ly 
obferved, during which the flave is forbidden to 
labour, that he may have leifure to attend mafs. 

Every flave has a claim to a certain allowance 
of food and clothing, which is not to be dimi- 
nifhed by their mafters, under pretence of hav- 
ing given him time to work for himfelf. The 
power of the matter is retrained to the whip 
and chain ; he may not wound or mutilate his 
flave. On ill treatment received from his 

mafter, 



46 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

matter, or on being deprived of his allowance 
of food and raiment, the flave is directed to ap- 
ply to the King's attorney, who is obliged to 
profecute the matter forthwith. This officer is 
alfo bound to profecute, if by any other means 
he hears of the abufe. This reafon is added in 
the law, ({ This we will to be obferved, to 
" check the abufe of power in the matter." If 
a flave rendered unferviceable, through age, 
hurts, or difeafe, be turned adrift by his matter, 
he is to be placed in the public hofpital, and to 
be maintained there at the expence of his 
matter. Thefe are fome of the regulations efta- 
bliftied by the Code Noir, to check the exor- 
bitancy of matters ; an inftance of attention and 
benevolence in the French government, that 
may well put Britifh negligence to fhame ! 

The refpect in which marriage is held, brings 
a farther advantage to French Haves. The ce- 
remony is folemnized by the prieft, and the tie 
continues for life. This gives them an attach- 
ment to their little families, and a concern for 
their intereft, and of confequence a care over 
them, and their own behaviour, that is feldom 
feen among Englifli flaves ; where the connexion 
between the fexes is arbitrary, and too fre- 
quently cafual ; where a male flave reckons it a 
piece of ftate to multiply his wives, and 
change them at pleafure, without looking beyond 
the prefent gratification, or confidering how his 

conduct 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 47 

conduct may affect the fate of his offspring. 
Care is alfo taken in the French iflands to marry 
them young, in the fame plantation ; and if 
they perceive a particular attachment between 
two young people, belonging to different matters, 
it is common to refign or exchange them, that 
they may both have the fame owner, and that 
marriage may have its full effect on their 
conduct. * 

The French (laves reap a confiderable ad- 
vantage from the prefence of their owners. 
One caufe of this is, that, in the colonies, they 
enjoy more liberty, and pay fewer taxes than 
in France, f An Englifh planter, if out of debt, 

or 

* A gentleman of Guadalonpe, Monfieur Seguer, informed 
me, that, with fome pains, he had brought it about to have 
all his flaves married within his own plantations ; and that by 
making them all people of_property, in allowing to each his 
bit of land, with a hog, a goat, and fome poultry, and by 
fome extraordinary pains ufed to inftruct them, he had brought 
them to a degree of healthinefs, good fenfe, tra£tability, and 
happinefs uncommon among his neighbours. And I ftiall here 
remark, generally, that nothing has a happier effect in re- 
forming or improving a Have, than the giving him fomething 
of his own to care for, and fear the lofs of. 

f The French governors have liberal appointments from 
the crown to fet them above the neceffity, and to take away 
the temptation of opprefling their people by exacting extraor- 
dinary fees from them in the manner of our Weft Indian go- 
vernors, who, to the difgrace of the government that appointed 
them, are forced to collect their maintenance in perquifites 
from thofe who have bufinefs with them. TheBritifh colonies 

are 



48 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

or a cafual crop be plentiful, mud run away to 
England, which he calls his home, where ge- 
nerally loft to every ufeful purpofe in life, he 
vies with the nobility in entertainments, extra- 
vagance, and expence, while his attorney, and 
manager, are obliged to over-work, and pinch, 
his poor flaves, to keep up, or increafe the ufual 
remittances. It would make indignation herfelf 
almoft fmile to hear their piteous complaining 
letters to their agents read, when the neceflities 
of the plantation have occafioned a fmall draught 

to 

are alfo made the property of patent officers, the profit of 
whofe places confifts wholly in perquifites, and is in general 
farmed from the principals in England by two or three fubfti- 
tutes in fuccefllon, till the immediate poffeffor be obliged, in 
his own defence, to commit acts of oppreflion, to make up his 
rent. And fuch is the corrupt influence at our court of thefe 
finecure patentees, as to have procured a ltanding inftru&ion 
to governors to oppofc and render null every attempt made 
by provincial affemblies to regulate their fees of office, or 
check their extortion. Thus the government of the mother 
country is deprived of the afliftance of men of character and 
fubftance in public offices, to fupport its influence in the co- 
lonies ; while thefe have impofed on them a moft humiliating 
and burdenfome badge of flavery, and have all their interefts, 
and all improvements of their police facrificed to the felfifh 
views of men whom they never faw. It has alfo been ufual of 
late years to permit the cuftom-houfe officers to hold their 
places by deputies, doubtlefs, to the great improvement of the 
revenue. The intercourfe between our Weft Indian colonies 
is by fmall vefTels carrying £40 or £50 freight. The 
cuftom-houfes force full one half of this Aim out of them, 
under the name of (not taxes but) fees. The confequence 
ie, that when provifions or ftores are unloaded in one ifland, 
they cannot, but in extreme tteceflity, be refliipped for another 
ifland. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 49 

to be made on them. And often the manager, 
whom the caprice, or felfifh, or family views of 
an attorney can, without warning, difplace, 
looks not forward to the confequences of ill 
treatment of flaves, while trying to recommend 
himfelf by a forced exertion of their flrength, 
in hopes that its pernicious effects may poffibly 
not appear in his time.* If the Englifh owner 
lives on his plantation, he is too often fo in- 
volved in debt, the effects of his predecefibr's, 
or his own former extravagance, or of injudi- 
cious purchafes, that he can fpare little from 
the prefling demands of his creditors, to allot 
for the eafe, and well-being of flaves, or indeed 
for any neceflary improvement of his property. 
The French, as they generally live each on his 
own plantation, fo they are happy in not having 
the credit, or opportunity which the Englifh 
have of running in debt, f All their improve- 
ments 

* Hence a planter always knows the date of his affairs bell, 
at the change of managers ; it generally requiring many hun- 
dreds, lometimes thoiifands of pounds, to fct matters agoing 
under the new director ; an expence that might be faved by 
ufing a lefs parcimonious method in the ordinary management 
of the plantation. 

■J- The whole debt owing by the Mar inico planters about 
the year 1773 was estimated nearly at 2.00, cool, fterling. St. 
Chriftopher's, which, in proportion to its extent, is our rich eft 
colony, and may be in value about one-third of the importance 
of Martinico, though divided among fewer than 120 pro- 
prietors, could not owe lefs at that time, than 73,0,0001. 
fterling. 

D 



50 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

merits mud arife out of their induftry. They 
are therefore more gradual, and better founded, 
than in our colonies, where, it has been only ne- 
ceffary to deliver in to a merchant an exag- 
gerated, pompous account of the richnefs of the 
plantation on which the money is to be raifed, 
to procure liberty for drawing on him for thou- 
fands after thoufands. Formerly induftry, in a 
courfe of years, raifed immenfe fortunes in the 
Weft Indies ; few have been raifed fince loans 
became frequent in England. Borrowed money, 
feldom, one may fay hardly ever, has fucceeded, 
when in any confiderable proportion to the pro- 
perty mortgaged for it. Let others explain the 
caufe, I content myfelf with recording the fact. 
Thus French planters, not having intereft money 
to provide, nor the ambition of retiring to Eu- 
rope, to ftimulate them in accumulating money, 
are not under the neceffity of forcing their flaves 
beyond their ftrength, in carrying on their 
plantations to that exquifite degree of culture, 
that is common in our colonies, and which is 
effected, not fo much by contrivance and me- 
thod, or by increasing with proper care and 
nourifhment the animal powers of their flaves, 
as by obliging them to extraordinary efforts, 
that foon wear them out ; and which, inftead 
of allowing them to increafe in the courfe of 
nature, make conftant demands on. the flave 
tnarket, to enable them to fupport the character 

of 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 51 

of the plantation. Far from ^--gating, as we do, 
every rood of land that they poflefs, in fugar 
cane, and depending on- foreign ■futppli'eS-for filed, 
the French try to live asTOUch as pofiible within 
themfelves. A confiderable proportion of land 
is fet apart for provifions. A late edict has re- 
ftri&ed the minimum to one acre in ten. Far- 
ther, the Trench plantation flaves are attached 
to the foil, and cannot be drawn off to pay 
debts, or be fold feparate from it. This gives 
them a lafting property in their huts, and little 
fpots of ground. They may fafely cultivate 
them, and not, as in the Britifh colonies, fear 
their being turned out of pofleffion, or trans- 
ferred from one proprietor to another, without 
regard had to their interefl: or feelings. From 
thefe circumftances, and from their manners 
being more communicative, the French, in the 
colonies, live more in a family way among their 
flaves, than our planters ; they become more 
fenfible of their wants and abilities ; they na- 
turally contract a regard and an affection for 
them ; the flaves are not hurried in their work, 
and enjoy a greater plenty, and variety of whole- 
fome food, than when their allowance of mufty 
flour, or weavily maize from 'America, is dealt 
out to them from a fcanty, bruifed tin or pew- 
ter meafure, by an unfeeling overfeer ; who 
perhaps recommends himfelf to his abfent em- 
ployer 
D 2 



52 /bN THE TREATMENT AND 

ployer by the number of {hares into which he 
has divided the ^ratbhld pittance. * 

°^. r cS r 'the obfervauon is, that the French 

flaves are more decently drefled, are more 

orderly, fenfible, and ten times more honed 

than Englifh flaves. They ufe private prayer. 

The field negroes begin and leave. off work 

with prayer ; the black overfeer officiating as 

priefr. This cuftom of having field prayers 

lias been found fo encouraging and ufeful, that 

many of the Engiim planters in Grenada, on 

their becoming owners of French flaves, kept 

it up on their plantations ; yet fome of thefe 

would have mocked and fneered at the practice, 

if propofed in their own ifiands. In the French 

colonies even in their towns, there is hardly 

* Though the French government has cared thus humanely 
for flaves, though the manners and circumltances of the 
French planters peculiarly favour their good treatment ; yet 
Since the temper of the matter mall ftill have great influence 
«r>n the 'condition of the fiave, this will not prevent, nor can 
we wonder, when we find, among the French, particular acts 
eppreffive, and particular owners cruel. But in a vigorous 
government, fuch as is that of France, thefe afts cannot be 
frequent, nor thefe men numerous. On the other hand, we 
mult acknowledge, that the free principles of our contlitution 
lounteratt many of the ill effects of our fcandalous neglect of 
the police of our colonies ; and that the tyrannical nature of 
the French government prevents the French from reaping the 
full effects of this their benevolent attention to the claims of 
humanity. Had we governors and other officers as difmterefted 
as the French, and ailing under the like benevolent inltruc- 
tions, the difference would be highly in our favour ; and had 
the French governors the fame principles to guide them as 
v/e have, the French colonilts would enjoy a great acceflion 
of political happinefs. 

cccafion 



CONVERSION Of AFRICAN SLAVES. 53 

occafion for a lock to fecure goods, or flore- 
houfes. In our colonies, no door, or lock, is 
a fufficient fecurity for any thing which a Have 
can carry away. In Grenada, they have long 
bitterly complained, that fince Englifh flaves 
came among them, they can keep nothing fafe 
from being purloined, and that even the ho- 
nefty of their own old flaves has been greatly 
debauched. 

SECT. VI. 

Majker and Slave in the Britijb Colonies,, 

TO purfue the preceding obfervations, which 
candour obliged us to make in favour of our 
rivals, we mud acknowledge, that an Englifh 
Have has nothing to check him in ill doing, 
but the fears of the whip, and that is a weak 
rellraint on a fcarving, craving appetite. The 
French {lave is placed above the folicitations of 
hunger ; and refpecYmg his behaviour, has, to 
the dread of pain, fuperadded, as a guide, the 
hopes and fears of religion, and the approba- 
bation and difpleafure of his prieft. The 
French, in the treatment of their flaves, regard 
the fuggeflions of humanity, and enforce its 
dictates by their laws. The Englifh have not 
paid the lead attention to enforce by a law either 
humanity or juftice, as thefe may refpeQ: their 
flaves. Many are the reftricYions, and fevere 

are 



54 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

are the punifhments, to which our (laves are 
fubje&ed. But it you except a law, that Go- 
vernor Leake got enacted in Nevis, to diflin- 
guifh petty larceny in flaves from felony ; and 
a law in Grenada and Jamaica, that obligeth 
maflers to allot to their flaves a certain portion 
of land for the growth of provifions ; and one 
in this lafl iiland, that grants them Saturday 
afternoon for the culture of it ; I recollect not 

- r*ncr\e> r.lanfe in all our /»a1«»» _o._ 1...1 t 
u i»-.- t) ■- — - <-^<i^iiy uv^«.o, ^anu A 

perufed the feveral codes with the view of re- 
marking fuch) enacted to fecure to them the 
leaft humane treatment, or to fave them from 
trfe capricious cruelty of an ignorant, unprin- 
cipled mafter, or a morofe, unfeeling overfeer. 
Nay a horfe, a cow, or a fheep, is much bet- 
ter protected with us by the law, than a poor 
f|ave. For thefe, if found in a trefpafs, are 
not to be injured, but fecured for their own- 
ers ; while a half ftarved negroe, may, for 
breaking a fingle cane, which probably he him- 
felf has planted, be hacked to pieces with a 
cutlas ; even though, perhaps, he be incapable 
of refinance, or of running away from the 
watchman, who finds him in the fact. Nay* 
we have men among us, who dare boaft of 
their giving orders to their watchmen, not to 
bring home any Have that they find breaking 
of canes, but, as they call it, to hide them, 
that is to kill, and bury them. And, accord- 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 55 

ingly, every now-and-then, fome poor wretch 
is miffed, and fome lacerated carcafe is difco- 
vered. 

Our countrymen are left, each to be guided 
by his own changeable temper, and to be in- 
fluenced by a femblance of felf-intered ; nor 
have they any tie on them, in their behaviour 
to the wretches under them, but this intereft, 
often ill underdood ; in fome perhaps there 
may be a defrre after a reputation for huma- 
nity, too frequently little guided by fentiment j 
in a few benevolence directed by confctence. 
Slaves are edeemed among us the intire pro- 
perty of their matters, and as having, diftinct 
from him, no right or intered of their own. 
And our conditution has fuch an excefiive bias 
to perfonal liberty, that in contradiction to the 
maxims of every well ordered ftate, it cannot, 
or will not, meddle with private behaviour, 
Hence that want of energy, vigour, and even 
propriety in every department of our police. 
Many actions pafs daily unnoticed among us, 
that would have degraded the hiffheft fenator of 
Rome into one of the lowed tribes. Society 
profeiles to direct the actions of individuals to 
the greated public good ; a purpofe to which 
all private intered and gratification fhould con- 
dantly be made to give place. Hence the true 
fecret of police, after having fecured the lives, 

liberties, 



56 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

liberties, and properties of the citizens, is to 
turn the conduct, and induftry of individuals 
to public profit, confidering the (late as one 
whole, and leaving private peifons, each to 
find his own particular happinefs in public prof- 
perity, checking every appearance of a way- 
ward difpofition, that may make the man inju- 
rious to his neighbour, or unprofitable to his 
country. What a field do the Britifh territo- 
ries offer for fuch a plan of police ? 

Indeed, with this view before us, our boafl- 
ed conftitution prefents only an uncultivated 
wild. How much remains undone in the vari- 
ous departments of commerce, of rural eco- 
nomy, roads, rivers, commons, government of 
towns, perfection of flaple commodities, exclu- 
sive privileges, and the like ? In the cafe of 
which we treat, the conftitution lays no claim 
to the flave, but confines its attention to the 
intercourfe of freemen, leaving citizens at 
liberty, as mailers, to difpofe of, and treat 
their flaves, with the fame indifference, if 
they pleafe, with the fame unfeeling wanton- 
nefs, which without controul they may exer- 
cife on their cattle. 

While we reflect on the ftate of flavery in 
our colonies, among the freefl people in the 
world, and extend our views to the like in- 

fiances 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 57 

fiances in hiftory, it becomes a mournful, an 
humiliating confideration in human nature, to 
find that thofe men and nations, whom liberty 
hath exalted, and who, therefore, ought to 
regard it tenderly in others, are conftantly for 
retraining its bleflings within their own little 
circle, N and delight more in augmenting the 
train of their dependents, than in adding to the 
rank, of fellow citizens, or in diffufing the bene- 
fits of freedom among their neighbours. Every 
where, in every age, the chain of (lavery has 
been fafhioned, and applied by the hand of 
liberty. Every ancient, every modern flate 
gives fhameful evidence of the truth, from the 
mock manumiiTion of the Greeks, -by the Re- 
man Flaminius, to the oppreffed ftate of the 
Dutch barrier, and their Eaft Indian fettle-' 
ments, begun while they themfelves were flrug- 
gling for freedom. * 

* The Athenians never admitted (Grangers to the privilege 
of cjtizenfhip ; Hercules, and one or two more, being the 
only foreigners indulged with it. This accounts for the fhort 
period of their once fplendid maritime empire. It is true 
the Romans fucceffively admitted their neighbour?, accord- 
ing to their vicinity, to the privilege of citizens ; but they 
a£ted from no generous principle. They increafed the num- 
ber of tyrant?, in proportion as their conq.uefts added new 
flaves to be kept in fubjec~tion by them. Of this the focial 
war is an undoubted proof. Yet this conduct, though fpring- 
ing from unworthy motives, was followed with the beil 
effects, and gave (tability to a ftate, that conqueft otherwile 
might have ruined. 

D s It 



58 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

It will perhaps be alleged, that this inconfi- 
derate treatment of flaves in our colonies may, 
as is generally fuppofed in Britain, be the effect 
of the illiberal turn of the colonifts, accuf- 
tomed from their infancy to trifle with the 
feelings, and fmile at the miferies, of wretches 
born to be the drudges of their avarice, and 
flaves of their caprice. But it is to be re- 
marked, that adventurers from Europe are uni- 
verfally more cruel and morofe towards flaves, 
than Creoles, or native Weft-Indians. Indeed, 
whatever I fliall have to fay of the conduct 
of individuals towards flaves, and the inat- 
tention of matters towards their claims, may 
be applied with more juftice to the new fet- 
tlers, than to the natives. Often attachment 
will fecure from thefe laft good ufage, while 
the flave has no hold on the others ; nay, pro- 
bably is, degraded by over-weening European 
pride, into a ftate differing but in name from 
brutal, by a treatment lefs generous, lefs confe- 
derate, than a horfe or an ox receives from 
them. Oppreffion makes the wretches ftupid, 
and their flupidity becomes their crime, and 
provokes their farther punifliment. In parti- 
cular, in the colony from which the following 
obfervations are chiefly drawn, fo great is the 
proportion of Europeans in all its active Ac- 
tions, that the character of the community 
muff be taken from them, not from the natives. 

And 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 59 

And when one confiders how thefe adventurers 
are ufually colle&ed, how often the refufe of 
each man's connections, of every trade, and 
every profefiion, are thronged in upon them, 
much fentiment, morality, or religion, cannot 
well be expected to be found within the circle 
of their influence. This mud ferve as an apo- 
logy for any thing feemingly fevere, that may 
appear in the profecution of the fubje&j to 
which we now return. * 

The difcipline of a fugar plantation is as 
exacl: as that of a regiment : at four o'clock 
in the morning the plantation bell rings to 
call the (laves into the field. Their work is 
to manure, dig, and hoe,^ plow the ground, 
to plant, weed, and cut the cane, to bring it to 
the mill, to have the juice exprefTed and boiled 
into fugar. About nine o'clock, they have half 
an hour for breakfait, which they take in the 
field. Again they fall to work, and, according 
to the cuftorn of the plantation, continue until 
eleven o'clock, or noon ; the bell then rings, 

and 

* We muft not confound every European fettler. in the- 
sbove cenfure ; fentiment, and benevolence, refined by educa- 
tion, influence feverai fuch within the author's acquaintance. 
Indeed, whatever there is generally amifs in the conduct of 
mallei s to their flaves, arifes not fo much from any particular 
depravity in them as men, as from the arbitrary unnatural re- 
lation that exifis between them and their wretched dependents; 
the effetts of which, neither fentiment nor morality can at all 
times prevent. 



60 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

and the flaves are difperfed in the neighbourhood, 
to pick up about the fences, in the mountains, 
and fallow or wade grounds, natural gra r s 
'and weeds for the horfes and cattle. The time 
allotted for this branch of work, and prepa- 
ration for dinner, varies from an hour and an 
half, to near three hours. In collecting pile 
by pile their little bundles of grafs, the flaves 
of low land plantations, frequently burnt up by 
the fun, mult wander in their neighbours 
grounds, perhaps more than two miles from 
home. In their return, often fome lazy fellow, 
of the intermediate plantation, with the view of 
faving himfelf the trouble of picking his own 
grafs, feizes on them, and pretends to infifl on 
carrying them to his matter, for picking grafs, 
or being found in his grounds ; a crime that 
forfeits the" bundle, and fubje&s the offender to 
twenty lafhes of a long cart whip, of twitted 
leather thongs. The wretch, rather than be 
carried to judgment in another man's plantation, 
is fain to efcape with the lofs of his bundle, and 
often to put up quietly with a good drubbing 
from the robber into the bargain. The hour 
of delivering in his grafs, and renewing his taik, 
approaches, while hunger importunately folicits 
him to remember its call ; but he mutt renew 
the irkfome toil, and fearch out fome green, 
fhady, unfrequented fpor, from which to re- 
pair his lofs. 

At 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 6f 

At one, or in fome plantations, at two 
o'clock, the bell fummons them to deliver in the 
tale of their grafs, and aflemble to their field 
work. If the overfeer thinks their bundles too' 
fmall, or if they come too late with them, they 
are puniihed with a number of ftripes from four 
to ten. Some mafters, under a fit of carefulnefs 
for their cattle, have gone as far as fifty ftripes, 
which effectually difable the culprit for weeks, 
If a (lave has no grafs to deliver in, he keeps 
away out of fear, fkulks about in the mountains, 
and is abfent from his work often for months ; 
an aggravation of his crime, which, when he 
is caught, he is made to remember. 

About half an hour before fun fet, they may 
be found fcattered again over the land, like the 
Ifraelites in Egypt, to cull, blade by blade, from 
among the weeds, their fcanty parcels of grafs. 
About feven o'clock in the evening, or later, ac- 
cording to the feafon of the year, when the 
overfeer can find leifure, they are called over 
by lift, to deliver in their fecond bundles of 
grafs ; and the fame punifhment, as at noon, is 
inflicted on the delinquents. They then fepa- 
rate, to pick up, in their way to their huts, (if 
they have not done it, as they generally do, 
while gathering grafs) a little brum wood, or 
dry cow-dung, to prepare fome fimple mefs for 
fupper, and to-morrow's breakfafr. This em- 
ploys 



62 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ploys them till near midnight, and then they go 
to fleep, till the bell calls them in the morning. 

This picking of grafs, as it is fitly called, 
often in a fevere drought, when it is to be found 
only in the recefles of the mountain, thus thruft 
in by the by into the hour of wearinefs and 
reft, is the greateft hardmip that a ilave en- 
dures, and the mod frequent caufe of his run- 
ning away, or abfenting himfelf from his work ; 
which not only fubje£rs him to frequent punifh- 
ment, but actually renders him unprofitable, 
worthlefs, and deferving of punifhment. He 
can neither refrefh, or indulge his wearied body. 
He is fubjected by it to injury. He is placed 
in the jaws of tre'pafs, and unavoidably made 
obnoxious to oppreiiion, and (tripes. And yet 
a few acres of land, in proportion to the extent 
of the plantation, allotted for artificial grafs, 
and a tew weakly flaves feparated from the 
work, would take away the neceflity of providing 
for cattle in this haraifmg fcanty manner. 

i 
This grafs, except fuch part of it as is re- 

ferved for the liable horfes, procured by fo 
much tci 1 , and forced out of the Have by fuch 
repeated punimment, under pretence of feeding 
the cattle and mules, is fpread abroad under 
their feet, on a fermenting inclofefl dung heap, 
called a pen. There a very confiderable part 
is loft to every purpoie of no^i iiiifficnt; by being 

trampled 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 63 

trampled under the beads feet ; where mixing 
with dung and urine, it ferments, corrupts, 
and with its fuffocating fleams in that fultry 
climate, inftead of fupplying them with vigour, 
fills them with difeafe ; as if Providence meant 
to revenge the oppreflion of the ilave, in being 
forced to drudge thus for it, by infpiring the 
mailer with a fpirit of abfurdity, in his manner 
of ufing it. 



* 



The work here mentioned, is confidered as 
the field duty of flaves, that may be infilled on 
without reproach to the manager, of unufual 

feverity, 

* This pen is an inclofure, perhaps of fixty by eighty feet, 
in which, from thirty to fifty cattle and mules are kept and 
fed. The decayed leaves, and offals of the fugar cane, are 
from time to time thrown in for litter. Their provender is 
fpread over it, and being mixed with urine, dung, and rain, 
becomes a fermenfaog mafs, which is emptied once, and in 
fome plantations, twice a year. The difeafe generally fatal to 
mules, feems to be of the nature of a putrid infectious fever, 
which, if it does not arife from, is at lead heightened by, this 
abfurd :x:anner of feeding. The cattle being often flaked out 
in the fallow grounds, are not fo constantly expofed to thefe 
noxious fteams. 

Though a planter will readily pay 30I. fterling for a good 
mule, or a bull, and though chiefly from this fcanty abfurd 
method of feeding them, he be obliged to renew his expence 
from year to year ; yet will he not allow a few acres for arti- 
ficial grafs, nor even a flail, a manger, or a clean fpot, to fave 
"their fmall pittance of provender From filth, or to feed them 
apart from the foul exhalations of a dung heap, in itsmoft un- 
wholefome ftate. There have been inftances of pens burfting 
out into a frnouldering flame, while the cattle were feeding on 
them. 



64 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

feverity, and which the white and black over- 
feers ftand over them to fee executed ; the 
tranfgreflion againft which, is quickly fol- 
lowed with the fmart of the cart whip. This 
inftrument, in the hands of a fkilful driver, cuts 
out flakes of (kin and flefh. with every ftroke ; 
and the wretch, in this mangled condition, is 
turned out to work in dry or wet weather, 
which laft, now and then, brings on the cramp, 
and ends his fufferings and flavery together. 

In crop-time, which may be when reckoned 
altogether on a plantation, from five to fix 
months ; the cane tops, by fupplying the cattle 
with food, gives the flaves fome little relaxation 
in picking grafs. But fome pretendedly induf- 
trious planters, men of much buflle, and no 
method, will, efpecially in moon-light, keep 
their people till ten o'clock at night, carrying 
wowra, the decayed leaves of the cane, to boil 
off the cane juice. A confiderable number of 
flaves is kept to attend in turn the mill and 
boiling houfe all night. They fleep over their 
work ; the fugar is ill tempered, burnt in the 
boiler, and improperly (truck ; while the mill 
every now-and-then grinds off an hand, or an 
arm, of thofe drowfy worn down creatures that 
feed it. Still the procefs of making fugar is 
carried on in many plantations, for months, 
without any other interruption, than during 
fome part of day light on Sundays. In fome 

plantations 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 65 

plantations it is the cuftom, during crop-time, 
to keep the whole gang employed as above, 
from morning to night, and alternately one half 
throughout the night, to fupply the mill with 
canes, and the boiling houfe with wowra. 

This labour is more or lefs moderated, in 
proportion to the method and good fenfe of the 
manager. In fome plantations the young chil- 
dren and worn-out flaves are fet apart to pick 
grafs, and bring cane tops from the field for the 
cattle, and do no other work. Sometimes the 
field gangs bring both their bundles of grafs at 
once, being allowed for that purpofe a little 
extra time, during the meridian heat ; which 
faves them an unneceffary repetition of wander- 
ing in the evening three or four miles to fearch 
for it, and enables the manager to employ the 
cool part of the afternoon in the common labour 
of the plantation. Sometimes they are difmiffed 
for grafs before the ufual hour ; or if they be 
hoe-ploughing land, frequently none is required 
from them. In fome plantations, they are not 
punifhed for coming late into the field, if they 
appear there about fun-rife. In mod well- 
ordered plantations, they leave off grinding and 
boiling before midnight, and begin not again till 
about dawn : it having been found, that the 
quantity of fugar made in the night, is not in 
proportion to the time ; that it not only fuffers 
in quality, but alfo lies open to pilferage ; and 

that 



66 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

that the mules, particularly the mod tradable, 
and eafily harner^r!, are injured by being worked 
indifcriminately, m the dark, out of their turn ; 
another valuable ,r Sequence, this of their being 
confufedly huddk : together in that indofed 
dung-heap, the pen : for the danger of grinding 
off a drowfy negroe's arm, or harafling him to 
death, is a confederation which, without thefe 
other circumftances, would hardly interrupt the 
grand work of fugar-making. 

Every plantation contains little fkirts, and 
portions of broken land, unfit for the cultivation 
of fugar. Thefe are ufually divided among the 
flaves for the growth of provifions ; but where 
the matter is inattentive, a few of the principal 
negroes often feize on, and appropriate to them 1 - 
felves, the poffeflions of the reft, and make the 
fimpler fort labour for them ; and many are (o 
lazy, that nothing but the whip, and the pre- 
sence of the overfeer, can make them work, 
even for themfelves. There is fuch a ready 
market for all the little articles which thefe fpots 
produce, that the induftrious (laves of a few, 
though but a few, plantations fituated near the 
mountains, where the weather is feafonable and 
favours the growth of vegetables, maintain 
themfelves in clothes and food, tolerably well, 
by the fale of their, various fruits, with little 
other immediate aid from their mafter, befides a 
weekly allowance of herrings. But, in far the 

greater 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 67 

greater number of plantations, the quantity of 
provifions, or marketable vegetables, is uncertain 
and trifling ; and neceiTity and hunger will not 
permit the wretches, to leave them in the ground 
to ripen fufficiently. Hence many difeafes and 
ruined conftitutions, from this fcanty, rude, ill- 
prepared food, ufed among them. 

Formerly, before we became fuch accurate 
planters, and before luxury had rapacioufly con- 
verted every little nook of land into fugar, the 

ljav w h?^ a ^ e ^ or tw0 °f tn ? fallow cane-land 
yearly divided among them, tor* 2 crop of yams, 
peafe, and potatoes ; and a field of the beft cane- 
land was annually put in yams, to be referved 
for their weekly allowance. When our late 
North American brethren were pleafed to 
threaten our fugar iflands with famine, this cuf- 
tom began again to be renewed, and with fuch 
fuccefs as might have encouraged them, never, 
in time to come, to have made themfelves as 
dependent on North America as formerly for 
their daily bread. 

Some mailers, now-and-then, give their 
llaves Saturday afternoon, out of crop-time, 
to till their fpots of ground ; fometimes will 
turn in the whole gang among them to weed 
and put them in order, under the direction of 
the overfeer. But, in general, the culture of 
their private patches, and the picking of grafs for 

their 



68 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

their cattle, are their employments on Sunday. In 
the low lands thefe provifion fpots are hardly 
ufeful fix months in twelve, from the ufuai 
drinefs of the weather. Added to the produce 
of their own provifion lands, and the cafualty 
of a fallow field, the flaves have a weekly 
allowance of grain, varying in different planta- 
tions, from one to three pounds, under the 
nominal meafure of from two to eight pints. 
A few plantations go n@ar to five pounds ; one 
or two as far as fix. They have alfo frorn 
three to eight herrings a week. In general, 
they are, far from being well or plentifully fed.* 

They 

* The practice of turning all our lands to the growth of 
the fugar cane, and negle&ing the culture of provifions for 
the flaves, and of artificial grafs for the cattle, has lately 
arifen equally from the demands of extravagance in our abfenfc 
planters, and of poverty in thofe on the fpot. Sugar, fugar, 
is the inceflant cry of luxury, and of debt. To increafe the 
quantity of this commodity, gardens of half an acre have 
been grubbed up ; and that little patch, which he had ufed to 
till for his own peafe, or caflava, has the flave been made to 
dig for the reception of his matter's fugar cane. Nor has the 
little ikirt of pafture, or half rood of artificial grafs, been 
more fpared in this univerfal facrifice to would-be greatnefs ; 
while the poor flave mutt attempt to make up for this, and 
every other want but his own, by exertions taken from the 
hour of wearinefs and hunger. Hence the annual expence of 
plantations, within lefs than thirty years, has been more than 
doubled. Hence the fending of two or three extra calks of 
fugar to market has been attended with an expence of hun- 
dreds of pounds in provifions to flaves, in oats to horfes, 
and in keeping up the (lock of flaves and cattle, worn out, 

before 



CONVERSION OF AFRIC 

They have an yea rly ctllouarce pi two or' 
three yards of coarfe woollen cloth, called bam- 
boo, to which fometimes is added for the men 
a woollen cap, for the women a handkerchief, 
and perhaps a few yards of Oinaburghs. At 
Chriftmas three holidays are pretended to be 
given them ; but generally Sunday is foifted in 
for one, and now and then half of Chriftmas- 
day mud be employed by them in digging yams 
for their allowance, and in receiving it after- 
wards, with a pound or two of falt-tifh, or a 
fcrap of coarfe Irifh beef. In Jamaica they 
have alfo two holidays at Eafter, and two at 
Whitfuntide, 

Their huts are framed of Ifland timber, cut 
by each man for himfelf in the mountains, and 
carried down by him and his wife on Sundays. 
Sometimes the owner will fupply a board or 
two to make a door or window fhutter, but, 
in general, fuch materials are flolen ; nails and 

hinges 

before their time, by indifcreet extraordinary efforts, and 
a fcanty allowance. The peculiar fertility of St. Chriftopher's 
has the mod baneful effects It enables the greateft part of 
its proprietors to live in England ; where, infenfible of the 
fufferings of their flaves, they think and dream of nothing 
but fugar^ fngar •, to which, in confcquence, every fpot of 
land is condemned. Hence grafs is procured there with more 
difficulty, and the flaves are more fcantily fed, than in the 
ether iflands ; and the managers are obliged to keep them 
up to their utmoft poflible exertion to preferve their employ- 
ment. 



TO ON THE TREATMENT AND 

hinges are either flolen or bought from thofe 
who have flolen them. This often happens on 
a plantation where perhaps a thoufand pounds 
fterling have been expended on a (table for a fet 
of Englilh horfes. Indeed Englifh horfes are 
the leaft neceffary, yet beft attended, beft 
ferved, beft lodged, and mod expenfively kept, 
animals pofleffed by a fugar planter. 

Negroes bred to mechanic employments, to 
fugar boiling, and the like, and fome domefiic 
flaves, fare much better than thofe who work 
in the field. They have opportunities of reta- 
liating on their mafter for his penurious treat- 
ment of them, by purloining from him ; and 
they often fupply themfelves with neceflaries 
by little ufeful jobs in their feveral trades. 
Slaves in the neighbourhood of the towns drive 
alfo a confiderable trade with the inhabitants 
for grafs and cane tops for feeding their horfes. 

A furgeon is generally employed by the year 
to attend the Tick flaves. His allowance per 
head varies from fourteen- pence to three (hil- 
lings ; in a few inftances it rifes to three (hil- 
lings and fix-pence fterling, befides being paid 
for amputations. Some frugal planters truft to 
their own (kill, and James's powder, and 
Ward's pill ; and, then, for the mod part, 
a furgeon is only called in to pronounce them 

pad 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 71 

pan; recovery. The food of the Tick is often 
mufty, indigeftible horfe beans, fometimes 
maize, flour, or rice ; fometimes, as a dainty, 
brown bifcuit. On fome plantations, the ma- 
nager is allowed to get, now-and-then, a fowl, 
or a kid to make foup for them. Sometimes 
the owner fends the manager a cafk of wine, 
a few glafles of which are fuppofed to be for 
the ufe of the fick. Where the manager is a 
married man, the fick often have a mefs from 
his table, and caudle, tea, and other comfort- 
able flops ; and his wife fuperintends the con- 
duct of the nurfe, and fees that the pregnant 
and lying-in women be properly taken care of. 
But the cuftom of employing married men on 
plantations is wearing fart out. Though mar- 
ried managers alone can take proper care of the 
fick, though they flay more conftantly at home, 
and have numberlefs other advantages over 
finglc- men, in point of character, faithfulnefs, 
and application 5 yet planters have determined 
it to be better to employ perhaps a diflipated, 
carelefs, unfeeling young man, or a grovelling, 
lafcivious, old .batchelor (each with his half 
fcore of black or mulattoe pilfering harlots, 
who, at their will, felecl: for him, from among 
the (laves, the objects of his favour or hatred) 
rather than allow a married woman to be 

entertained on the plantation.* T 

r In 

* The pretence of this encouragement given to profligacy, 
is, that a family requires more attendants, and confumes more 

fugar 



72 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

In the year 1774, or before the American 
war, the feveral articles that a flave had an- 
nually returned to him out of his labour, were, 
in' too many plantations, within the following 
proportion. In others, his allowance of food 
confiderably exceeded what is here mentioned : 

fugar than ft fingle man ; but the contrary is the fact in a 
very high degree; and there is not in the (ingle man the at- 
tention, and perfevering care of a fenfible woman, (fuch, in 
an highly ufcful degree, is almoft every manager's wife whom 
I know) in things within her province, which, even, were 
the aflertion true, would more than balance the account. 

I mean- not to comprehend every fingle man in the fall ex- 
test of this cenfures. Some fnew the wretches under them 
every mark of attention that their own folitary ftate leaves in 
their power. But all mud pafs through the hands of fome 
inconfidsrate boy overfeer, or fome unfeeling black or mulattoe 
concubine. And where the fingle man is a gadding, gofllp- 
ping reveller, (a character fometimes to be met with) incon- 
ceivable are the miferies to which the flaves are fubjedted. 
The neceflaries, where any are allotted for the fick, (and hea- 
ven knows, on the bell plantations, they are trivial enough !) 
are devoured as a morfel, by that legion of harlots and their 
children, with which the plantation abounds. Often, while 
the manager is feafting abroad, carelefs and ignorant of what 
has happened, fome haplefs wretch among the flaves is taken 
ill, and unnoticed, unpitied, dies, without even the poor 
comfort of a furgeon, in his laft moments, to fay, " It is now 
too late." When the unripe female flave has become the new 
object: of the manager's attachment, (he becomes an object of 
envy to the more experienced dames that have gone before her, 
and muft think herfelf lucky, if fhw pays not with her life the 
forfeit of her youthful attractions. In (hort, in the cafe fup- 
pofed, fhamelefs profligacy ufurps the place of decency, fym- 
pathy, morality, and religion-, and headlong unthinking lult 
alone produces all the walling effects of difhonefty, cruelty, 
and oppreffion. 

Annual 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 73 

,£. s. d. 

Annual allowance of rice, flour, 

maize, beans, or other grain, 
Ditto of herrings, and his fifh, or 

fcrap of fait beef, at Chriftmas, 
Ditto clothing, ------036 

Surgeon, quack medicines, and ex-? ~ 

traordinary neceflaries when fick, 

Whole annual allowance -160 




o 



o 



The ordinary punifhments of flaves, for the 
common crimes of neglect, abfence from w r ork, 
eating the fugar cane, theft, are cart whipping, 
beating with a (lick, fometimes to the break- 
ing of bones, the chain, an iron crook about 
the neck, a large iron pudding or ring about 
the ancle, and confinement in the dungeon. 
There have been inflances of flitting of ears, 
breaking of limbs, fo as to make amputa- 
tion neceflary, beating out of eyes, and caf- 
ftration ; but they feldom happen, efpecially 
of late years, and though they bring no lad- 
ing difgrace on the perpetrator, have, for fome 
time paft, been generally mentioned with in- 
dignation. It is yet true, that the unfeeling 
application of the ordinary punifhrnents ruins 
the conftitution, and (hortens the life of many 
a poor wretch.* ~ 

* In a certain colony, no lefs than two chief judges with-n 
thefe thirty years, have been celebrated for' cutting off or 

,, mafhing 

h 



74 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

To 'avoid any mifconftruction, I mud here 
obferve, that the labour, the diet, the puni fo- 
ments, in fhort, the general treatment of (laves, 
depend on the character of the owner or mana- 
ger ; and that in fome particular plantations 
(the grievance of picking grafs, and the circum- 
ftance of their being fo long as fix teen hours 
out of the twenty-four under the lafh of the 
whip-, excepted) they enjoy as much eafe and 
indulgence as are compatible with their prefent 
flate of ignorance and dependence, and the ac- 
curate methodical cultivation of a fugar planta- 
tion. But this cafe and this indulgence, though 
<<due from all matters to all flaves, are not 
deemed matter of right, but of kindnefs or 
favour ; and too many are fet over them, who 
want both humanity and difcretion to fee either 
the obligation or advantage of fuch treatment ; 
too many who are too lazy to confult any prin- 
ciple but prefent caprice in their conduct to- 
wards them. I have heard managers boaft of 

mafhing (fo as to make amputation neceffary) the limbs of 
their flaves. In one cafe a furgeon was called in to operate ; 
but he anfwered, he was not obliged to be the inftrument of 
another man's cruelty. His honour had it then performed by 
a cooper's adze, and the wretch was left to bleed to death, 
without attention, or drefling. When he became convulfed, 
in the agonies of death, the furgeon was again haftily fent for, 
and came in time to pronounce him dead. People ftared at 
the recital, but made no enquiry for blood'. In the other cafe 
the limb was maflied with a (ledge hammer, and then it was 
amputated by a furgeon, and the maimed wretch lived fome 
jears. 

not 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 75 

not having ordered twelve ftripes in twelve 
months among 120 flaves. There are alfo "ma- 
nagers who may boaft, and there have been 
fome who have boafted, of having given, 
every now-and-then, what they call a cool 
hundred for the flighteft offences. Yet, -were 
this laft even a folitary character, ]n a com- 
munity, he ought to be an object of police, 
and be compelled to revere the claims of hu- 
man nature. 

We cannot pafs over in filence the ufual 
treatment of pregnant women and nurfes. In 
almoft every plantation they are fond of plac- 
ing every negroe who can wield an hoe in the 
field gang ; fo fond, that hardly any remon- 
ftrance from the furgeon can, in many cafes, 
fave a poor difeafed wretch from the labour ; 
though, if method prevailed, work may be 
found on the plantation equally necefiary and 
proportioned to every various degree of ability ; 
and though one or two days attempts in the 
field be fure to lay them up in the hofpital 
for weeks. 

At this work are pregnant women often kept 
during the laft months of their pregnancy, and 
hence fuffer many an abortion ; which fome 
managers are unfeeling enough to exprefs their 

E 2 joy 



f]6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

joy at, becaufe the woman, on recovery, hav- 
ing 'no child to care for, will have no pretence 
for indulgence. 

If, after all, (he carries her burden the full 
time, fhe muft be delivered in a dark, damp, 
fmoky hut, perhaps without a rag in which 
to wrap her child, except the manager has a 
wife to fyrapathize with her wants. Hence the 
frequent lofs of negroe children by cramp and 
rconvulfions within the month. A lying in wo- 
man is allowed three, in fome plantations four 
weeks for recovery. She then takes the field 
■with her child, and hoe or bill. The infant 
is placed in the furrow, near her, generally 
expofed naked, or almoft naked, to the fun and 
rain, on a kid ikin, or fuch rags as me can 
procure. Some very few people give nurfes 
an extra allowance. In general, no other at- 
tention is paid to their condition, except per- 
Jiaps to excufe them from the picking of grafs. 

Though flaves be now raifed to a price that 
few old fettled plantations can afford to give., 
yet this is all the care taken in mofl of them 
to raife a young generation ; while Creoles or 
native Weft Indian negroes are univerfally ac- 
knowledged to be more hardy, diligent, and 
trufty than Africans. Managers, to whofe care 
plantations are left, hold their places, as we 
have obferved, by fo precarious a tenure, that 

they 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 77 

they too often confine their views to the mak- 
ing of the greateit prefent exertion that is pof- 
fible, (which, indeed, their employers prefs 
them to do) without looking forward to what 
may happen fifteen years hence *. 

."> SECT. 

* Under the impreffion of this negligence, let me prepofe 
the remedy. Let two rooms be added to the hofpital, one for 
the reception of lying-in women, the other for the fucking 
children, while their mothers are at work. The whole fhouid 
be placed fo as to be convenient for the infpedlion of the 
manager's wife, whom we eiteem to be a? neceiTary a perfon : 
on a plantation as the manager himfelf; and who, on molt 
plantations, may have fufficient employment in taking care 
of the keys in her hufband's abfcnce on bufmefs, or at courts, 
(many overfeers not being truft-worthy) to fee the fickly negroes 
fed, the infants properly taken care of, and the nurfe do her 
duty in the hofpital. For thefe and the like offices, in St. 
Croix, it is ufual to give her a falary, diiliuft from her huf- 
band. Lft two elderly handy women be chofcn to attend the 
childien, keep them clean, and feed them with fpoon- meat. - 
For the firft fix months, nurfes fhouid be kept at moderate 
labour near the hofpital, r to be at hand to fuckle their chil- 
dren, from time to time. After that period, they may go 
through the ordinary woik of the plantation, except the pick- 
ing of grafs. They fhouid have an extraordinary allowance of 
food both in quantity and quality. Every healthy child, pre- 
fented to the mailer weaned, fhouid intitle the mother to a 
complete fuit of clothes. Every woman, that has three chil- 
dren st wotk in the field, fhouid be excufed all field work. 

We have fcveral plantations, where by care and m'ld 
treatment, and a judicious, or cafually juft proportion be- 
tween the fcxes at firft, the flaves increafe from the births; 
and this might be the cafe in all, if the dictates of prudence 
and humanity were obeyed. To give an inftance in point : 
there are two plantations, bordering on each other, of nearly 
the fame extent. About twenty years ago they were nearly 

equally 



78 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

SECT. VII. 

Mafter and Slave in particular Inftances. 

I T has been obferved, that there is no law 
in the colonies to reftrain the ill-behaviour or 
cruelty of a matter to his (lave. It is not meant 
to be infinuated from this, that the want of laws 
to fecure good treatment to them expofeth them 
to all the ill ufage, that may be fuppofed natu- 
rally to arife from fuch negle£r. The huma- 
nity of many matters more than fupplies trie 
want of laws in every other refpecT:, but that of 
improvement ; the attachment of others has in 
them a like effefit. In fome cafes, good fenfe, 
a regard for their reputation, and a well inform- 
ed conviction of their intereft, induce men to 
treat their flaves with difcretion and humanity. 
The flaves of many a planter poflefs advantages 
beyond what the labourer even in Britain enjoys. 

It 

equally flocked with flaves ; on the one the allowance has 
been more plentiful, and the managers have been more confi- 
derate than on the other. Here the (laves are ftrong, hearty, 
and increafed from the births. The other manager boafls of 
his punching and faving ; and that plantation requires an almoit 
annual fuppjy of eight or ten negroes to keep up the ftock. 
And, till lately, that he, through laz'nefs, and abfolute negleft 
of his employer's intereft, as he underdood it, has relaxed in his 
difupline, the flaves were a flarving heartlefs crew. Indeed, 
at this time, none were left but fuch whofe natural ftrength of 
conftitution Mood proof againft excefs of labour, feverity of 
punifhmentj and the hit tolerable degree of famine, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 79 

It is true the Have carmnot hope, as the other 
may, to raife himfelf, or his children above their 
prefent condition ; or by his induftry to put him- 
fe'lf or them on a footing with his mafter ; a 
fpur to exertion and emulation that mull: ever 
diftinguifh and ennoble freedom: yet his work, 
all but that vile picking of grafs, which in St. 
Chriftopher's is an intolerable burden, is in ge- 
neral eafier ; his life paffes more happily on, and 
he entertains no anxious thoughts about his ex- 
pences when (ick, or his maintenance when old. 
Slaves chiefly fufrer, where they are the pro- 
perty of an ignorant, low-minded, narrow-heart- 
ed wretch, or of one indigent and involved, or 
of a man who makes a figure beyond his income 
in England, or when they are fubmitted to fome 
raw lad, or untaught unfeeling manager or over- 
feer. And men in fucfr circumitances, and of 
fuch difpofitions, are to be found in too great a 
proportion in every community, to have aban- 
doned to their ignorance, their cruelty, preju- 
dice, parfimony, or felfifhnefs, fo many thou- 
sands of their fejlow-creatures as are really fub- 
je£ted to them in our colonies. 

I have now in contemplation before me, a 
planter, who conceives himfelf to be a confcien- 
tious man. This man fells every year fugarand 
rum to the amount of 10,000 I. or 15,0001. 
fterling, befides duties and freight ; the produce 

of 



8o ON THE TREATMENT AND 

of his (laves labour, in number above 500. 
Though his lands have no particular advantages 
of provifion grounds above his neighbours, and 
though he never was remarkable for allowing 
them any extraordinary time to work fuch 
ground, if it had been allotted to them, nay, is 
notorious for keeping them drawling on at work 
under the eye of his drivers and overfeers, from 
earliefi dawn to midnight, from month to 
month, without refpite or relaxation; yet it 19 
only of late years, that he has afforded them any 
thing above fix herrings a week, and thofe not 
very regularly fupplied. His manager, indeed, 
ufed to (teal, now-and-then, from his horfes, a 
bufhel or two of beans to divide among the mod 
emaciated flaves ; but it was not the cuflom 
of the plantation to give them any allowance of 
food. Some years ago, his attornies took the 
opportunity of his making a voyage to England, 
to give his flaves an allowance of grain which 
has fince been continued, and has gradually been 
raifed from a fcanty pound per week to nearly 
the common allowance of fix nominal pints, that 
may weigh about two pounds and an half. In- 
deed, fuch was this man's original prejudice 
againft feeding his negroes, and fo unable were 
they, without feeding, to exift in a (late capa- 
ble of labour, that, greatly to the leffening of his 
income, it was his cuflom to keep on making 
fugar, almoft. throughout the whole year, in a 

lifelefs. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 8t 

lifelefs, inactive manner, in order that his Haves 
might have fome fubfiftence from the cane juice, 
Before the period of which we fpeak, tlaves 
had much more provifion ground allotted to 
them, and, being lefs hurried by the overfeers, 
were better able to cultivate. When luxury 
came in, like a torrent^ among the planters, and 
feized with violence on the ilaves little fpots, 
and demanded the whole of their time, not leav- 
ing even to deep its due, the neceility of pro- 
viding other food for them from foreign parts 
was but flowly perceived, and thoufands had pe- 
riihed before the lofs was traced to its proper 
caufe ; and this man, of whom we write, was 
one of the lad who was convinced that his ilaves 
mull be fed, if work was to be expected from 
them. Now can it be affirmed, that fuch a per- 
fon would not have reaped an advantage from a 
law that mould have directed him how to feed 
his (laves, or that (laves belonging to fuch a man 
would not have been happier in themfelves, 
more profitable to their owner,- and better and 
more ufeful members of the {late, if they could 
have claimed the benefit of a law, I will not 
fay to vindicate for them the common rights of 
humanity, but to fecure to them the full exer- 
tion of their animal powers. And may we not 
add, that men (o ufeful to fociety in their mif- 
managed itate, and capable of being rendered 
infinitely more profitable, have demands on fo- 
E 5 ciety 



82 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ciety for much better entertainment than a bit 
of falted herring, or a little raw cane juice? 

And yet, had fuch planters as we have been 
fpeaking of the fenfe to difcern it, wifdom would 
teach them a more liberal plan of policy, and 
make the dictates of humanity, or even of pru- 
dence alone, {land in ftead of a thoufand laws. 
A gentleman, who lately died here, gave his 
flaves nearly double the proportion of food that 
is given by many, who value themfelves on feed- 
ing them very high ; and he frequently faid, 
that, could he afford it, he would increafe their 
allowance flill further- He parcelled out to 
them a larger proportion of his ufeful ground 
than moft of his neighbours, for the cultivation 
of their roots and vegetables, and it lay more 
convenient for tillage. His flaves had, ail fome 
little property, a hog, a goat, a trifle of money 
made by the fale of the produce of their little 
gardens,' or of their weekly allowance of food ; 
and they were all able to keep themfelves decent- 
ly clothed. He enlarged the gang to fuch a 
number, as not to be under the neceflity of work- 
ing them beyond their llrength, or at unfeafon- 
able hours. In wet weather, he contrived to 
employ them near the works for the benefit of 
fhelter ; and they all had comfortable huts to re- 
ceive them after the labour of the day. He al- 
lowed them to exchange their provifions for mo- 
ney, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. B$ 

ney, or any other fpecies of food more agreeable 
to them, and it was to enable them to indulge 
their tafte for variety, that he wifhed to in- 
creafe an allowance, otherwife fufficient for 
them. He feemed to have hit the medium be- 
tween governing too much and too little: his 
people were always ready at command; but 
they had the full power of themfelves and their 
time, when the plantation work did not employ 
them. 

When he left off the purchafmg of new (laves, 
he poflefled about one hundred and fixty. In 
four years they were increafed from the births 
to one hundred and eighty. In eight years he 
had loft by old age and chronic complaints about 
ten, and a few more by the natural fmall-pox, 
who, when the others were inoculated, were 
pafled over, on. the fuppofition of their having 
formerly had the difeafe. Some few infants 
were, I believe, alfo loft within the month ; 
and the proportion of breeding women was 
fmall. The above is not the common propor- 
tion of deaths in any place. It is not an unu- 
fual thing on the fame ifland to lofe in one year 
out of fuch a number, ten, twelve, nay, as far as 
twenty,' by fevers, fluxes, dropiles, the effec"t of 
too much work, and too little food and care. 
In fome plantations of the like extent, it is ne- 
ceffary to keep up the gang by an almoft annual 

addition 



84 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

addition of eight or ten new (laves. His whole 
expence for phyfic, during the three laft years 
of this period, was within half of the annual al- 
lowance ufually paid for fuch a number. Now, 
if we take into account the labour loft by the 
fkknefs of thofe numbers that muft be taken ill, 
where many die, the expence of recruits, and 
the puny, weakly, inefficient flate of the whole, 
where fo much is fuffered from inattention, the 
difference in point of intereft between difcreefc 
and hard ufage is great in favour of humanity. 

Farther, in plantation?, where flaves are ill 
fed, hard worked, and feverely punifhed, it is 
a circumftance common for a tenth, and even 
as far as a fourth part of the working flaves, to 
go off and fkulk in the mountains, fome for 
months together. The culture of the plantati- 
on is interrupted by the lofs of their labour, 
while they, by lying out in the woods, and learn- 
ing there to eat dirt or clay, often contract dif- 
orders, of which they never recover. This 
gentleman, in the laft eight years of his life, 
had only one flave who abfented himfelf two 
days, on having had fome words with the over- 
feer, for having debauched one of his wives. 
Thefe particulars taken together, are not defpi- 
"2able advantages of fellowfeeling and humanity; 
and if the like care was extended to the improve- 
ment of their minds, they, who were fo well 

cared 

\ 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 85 

cared for in what refpects the body, might in 
time be brought to pay fome attention to what 
concerns the foul. 

It is pleafant to record fuch an inftance, and, 
did I not fear to awaken detraction, I would in 
order to humble European pride, celebrate him 
by name, as a Creole of at leafl: four defcents, 
the friend of the author, and a man of more 
considerable humanity in private, and more com- 
prehenfive generofity in public life, than (ex- 
cept in one or two cafes more) has ever come 
within my notice. But this gentleman had 
chiefly in view the eafe and happinefs of his own 
flaves : perhaps an example, where profit is the 
object, may be more convincing. A young 
man has the care of a confiderable plantation in 
the neighbourhood : his character depends on 
its thriving condition, and the profitable returns 
made to the abfent owner. The flaves, when 
he took charge of them, were a puny weakly 
gang, and fewer in number than in other plan- 
tations of the fame extent. The plantation is 
particularly laborious, yet the work is more for- 
ward, and better finifhed, the flaves more heal- 
thy, the deaths fewer, the crops greater, the 
rum in an higher proportion, and the fugar 
better and higher priced, than in the plantations 
around it. 

This 



86 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

This is the fecret of his management. He 
is a flave to method. If once he hath taken 
public notice of a trefpafs againft the eftablifhed 
difcipline, he never pardons, except when, in 
a particular cafe, he obliges the culprit to find 
fome reputable feiiow-flave, to become fecurity 
with him for his good behaviour. Ke attends 
carefully to his own duty, and therefore few un- 
der him dare to be negligent ; fo that he feldom 
has occafioh to correct. 'The trial of all tref- 
pafles, and difpenfation of punilhments, are held 
in prefence of the gang. The fentence is ac- 
companied with a public explanation of the 
fault, and an exhortation to avoid it ; and often 
jhe contempt and reproach of the culprit's fel- 
lows make the fevered part of the correction. 
If the whole gang has behaved remarkably well, 
throughout the week, he diftributes fome little 
reward among them, or, if the work permits, 
gives them Saturday afternoon to themfelves. 
If a Have has been remarkably diligent, he gets 
fome money, a bit of beef, or other trifle on 
Sunday. Sometimes he affe&s to difcover re- 
markable diligence in a lazy flave, and rewards 
it as if real, and thus encourages him to exert 
himfelf, and excites thofe who de<pifed him, ftill 
more to out-do him. If two or three behave 
remarkably ill, the ufual indulgence or reward is 
with-held from the gang. This makes them 
become guardians of each other's conduct, and 

fear 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 8? 

fear the fcorn and refentment of their compani- 
ons, more than their matter's power. He em- 
braces every occafion to harangue them on their 
duty, and on the advantage of obedience, and 
good behaviour ; and this cuftom has infenfibly 
introduced among them the feeds of fentiment, 
and moral diftin£tion. Their allowance of food 
is double to that of plantations where they pre- 
tend to give the fame number of pints of grain. 
When they hole, or hand plough, the land, they 
have an extraordinary allowance of food, and are 
indulged with rum and water to drink. The 
fick, and their nurfe, are put under his wife's 
direction, and any remarkably puny negro is 
employed about the houfe and kitchen. 



CHAP. 



88 O^ THE TREATMENT AND 



CHAP. II. 

The Advancement of Slaves would augment 
their Social Importance. 

A N the preceding chapter, we have contratted 
flavery, as it has been varioufly enforced among 
different nations, over the unfortunate, with 
thofe ranks, into which fociety naturally, and 
profitably, feparates its members. In this lad 
{late, we obferve a rule originating in our con- 
flitution, by our Creator's will, that leads on 
each individual from his own fecurity and hap- 
pinefs, to form the happinefs and fecurity of the 
community to which he belongs. In the other, 
the capricious will of individuals is the only law 
of their dependents, and, without once confut- 
ing their welfare, concludes all their feelings, 
and all their deareft interefls. And all matters, 
in proportion as they themfelves are free, are, 
for their mutual profit, confpired together to 
rivet, and extend the chains of flavery, as far as 
their power extends. 

This unnatural ftate of mankind has, more or 
lefs, departed from the dictates of humanity, in 
proportion as the difpofition of matters, and the 
views of legittatorsj have overlooked or confi- 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 89 

dered the general rights of mankind. The cuf- 
toms and mariners of different nations have, in 
fome inftances, foftened the lot of miferable 
(laves ; in others have encouraged the head-long, 
cruelty of mafters. But in the Britifh planta- 
tions, the infolence arifing from the keen fenfe 
of our own freedom, (and yet why mould not a 
keener fympathy with fuffering humanity ope- 
rate on "our feelings) and the inceflant demands 
of luxury, and extravagance, that make them- 
felves to be heard, and obeyed from the capital 
acrofs the vail atlantic, have there funk human 
nature down to the loweft depth of wretched- 
nefs. Hunger, miftruft, oppreffion, ignorance, 
produce in the flaves worthleflhefs, and crimes ; 
and the avarice and cruelty, that contrived the 
faults, exact punimment for them with as much 
effrontery, as if they who made them flaves, 
and thereby deprived them of every virtuous 
feeling, and every fpur to emulation, were not 
anfwerable in their own perfons for the bafe 
effects. Do we wifh to form adequate notions 
of their mifery ? Let us imagine (and would 
heaven it were only imagination !) mafters and 
overfeers, with uplifted whips, clanking chains, 
and prefling hunger, forcing their forlorn flaves 
to commit every horrid crime that virtue fhrinks 
at,' and with the fame weapons punifhing the 
perpetration, not to the extremity indeed that 
nature can bear, but till the whole man finks 
under them. But to make the reprefentation 

complete, 



90 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

complete, we muft alfo draw humanity, bleed- 
ing over the horrid fcene, and longing, eagerly- 
longing, to be able to vindicate her own rights. 
•Still, whatever (he may urge, it will have little 
weight, it avarice or luxury oppofe her claim. 
We are exceedingly ready, it is the turn of the 
age, to exprefs ourfelves forrowfully, when any 
aft of oppreffion, or unjuft fuffering, is related 
before us ; the generous fentiment flows glibly 
off our tongues, charity feems to dilate every 
fympathizing phrafe, and vanity comss cheer- 
fully forward to make her offering. But whom 
fhall we find willing to facrifice his amufement 
or his pleafure, to obey the call of humanity ? 
Who to relieve the fufferings of the wretched 
flave, will boldly encounter the oppreflbr's rage, 
or offer up felfifh intereft at the altar of mercy ? 
Why, then, hath the active zeal of the bene- 
volent Mr. Granville Sharp, and a few others, 
in the bufinefs that we now agitate, hitherto 
made the unfeeling indifference of our age, and 
nation, but the more confpicuous ? 

We muft not therefore flop at gaining over 
humanity to our fide, but go on to fhew, that 
fociety is deeply interefled in advancing the con- 
dition of flaves, and that it would even be for 
the benefit of their immediate matters, that they 
fhould be fubjecl: only to the laws. As the 
cravings of luxury and extravagance have of 
late begun to make inroads, even on the flave's 

partial 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 91 

partial refpite from toil on the fabbath ; we 
will, in the mean time fhew, till this much-to- 
be-defired freedom can be brought gradually 
about, how much the matter fins, not only 
againfl heaven, but his own immediate intereft, 
when he forces his (lave to toil for him on this 
facred day. And fo low is their ftate, that we 
fhall not intirely lofe the purpofe of this under- 
taking, if we vindicate for them only their legal 
claim to this indulgence. To make the reader 
the better acquainted with the fubjecl: of our 
inquiry, we will premife a fhort account of the 
prefent importance of the flaves in our fugar 
colonies. And we hope to leave felfilhnefs, 
and private interefr, without excufe, for con- 
tinuing the heavy yoke which now opprefles 
them. 

SECT. I. 

Their prefent Importance to Society as Slaves. 

IN treating of this fubject, the author finds 
a difficulty in fupprefling his feelings. How 
fhall a man, who is firmly convinced that "reli- 
gion, and law, mufl go hand in hand, and extend 
their influence over every individual, in order 
to fecure the full purpofes of fociety, pafs over, 
without cenfure, a conduct both in governors 
and people, which, refpe£ting our colonies, is 
wholly regardlefs of thefe important points ; 

even 



92 ON T^E TREATMENT AND 

even among thofe, who have always been ac- 
knowledged as citizens ? All civilized flates, 
hitherto, have had an eflablifhed religion. An 
eflablifhed religion has" a flrong influence on 
every mode that is tolerated, though not efla- 
blifhed. The church of England, particularly, 
is considered by all fober people, as the great 
flay of the conflitution ; and it is a fa£t, that 
the enemies of the one always aim their attacks 
at the other. But in the places of which I 
write, with hardly one exception, neither is law 
animated by religion, nor is religion fupported 
by law. Even common opinion has no check 
to oppofe to the mod fcandalous crimes, nor 
does it operate to reflrain the mod indecent 

enormities.* 

This 

* In this pitture, I mean not a general charge of depravity, 
but of careleflnefs and indolence, that fix neither punifhment 
nor difgrace on the greateft irregularities. When it is con- 
fidered, that neither religion nor common opinion have any 
check in thefe iflands on perfonal behaviour, \ it is not fo fur- 
prizing that many heinous crimes Ihould fhew themfelves, as 
that they (hould continue to be confined to the fmaller number 
in a country, where law attends to nothing but the fecurity of 
a man's property. 

It is indeed true of the inhabitant?, that though fome indi- 
viduals may, and actually do, commit the molt flagrant of- 
fences, not without punifhment only, but even without blulh- 
ing, yet they are in general much better than their ruler?. 
Within thefe five years, the grand jury of a certain colony 
ftrove in vain to bring the complicated crime of murder and 
inceft to a trial. The whole bench of jufticcs, and king's 
council, without even fuppofing the man innocent, united to 

oppofe 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 93 

This obfervatiors of the neglect of all ap- 
pearance of religion in the colonies is truly dif- 
couraging, and leads directly to this juil and 
mournful conclufion concerning flaves: <( That 
" the government which pays no attention to 
" the moral and religious conduct of its liege 
" fubjects, can be expected to do but little for 
€t the improvement of flaves." In thefe we 
behold a wretched race of mortals, v/ho are 
confidered as mere machines or inftruments of 
our profit, of our luxury, of our caprice, with- 
out feelings, without rights, without profpe&s : 
— Defpifed beings, who have found no friend, 
helper, or protector ; who have not influence 
with a legiflature, that from year to year is em- 
ployed in making a£b in favour of horned cattle, 
and ascertaining the rights of partridges and 
dogs, to get a flatute paffed, (I will not fay for 
their benefit as reafonable creatures, but) for 
their feelings and utility as mere animals, or in- 
ftruments of labour ; who cannot procure an 
edi£fc to prevent the leaft particle of the una- 
lienable rights of human nature from being 
wrefted out of their pofieflion, by the ignorance, 

prejudice, 

oppofe the attempt, and protect the culprit, and were able to 
do it effectually. 

Barbadoes is almoft the only colony, where any tolerable 
degree of decency is preferved, refpe&ing an eltablifhed reli- 
gion ; and though there be many and grievous defects in its 
conlVitution and government, yet this circumftance gives it con- 
siderable advantages in point of decency and civilization above 
the others, efpccially the new iflands. 



94 ON T HE TREATMENT AND 

prejudice, cruelty, revenge, and felfifhnefs of 
untaught, inconfiderate men, their mafters and 
their overfeers. And this neglect they meet 
with from a legiflature, whofe chief conftitu- 
tional purpofe of aflembling, is to difpofe of 
their conftituents money, and which, from a 
very natural inquiry, might have known, that 
while the flaves in our fugar colonies, exceeded 
not the fortieth part of the-inhabitants of the 
empire, at the breaking out of the late war, 
they contributed, in that negleded ftate, per- 
haps nearly a fixth part of its then revenue: 
a proportion which might be confiderably in- 
creafed, if the condition of the miferable 
wretches themfelves were a little improved. 

As this is a bold affertion, it will be^ie- 
ceflary to (hew, on what data I proceed*, in the 
difcuflion of a fubje&, in which exa&nefs can- 
not be expe&ed. I had made my calculations 

before 

• The inhabitants of England and ? „, • 

Wales are eftimated at S 

Scotland 1,500,000 

Ireland 2,500,000 

11,500,000 
British Isles, &c. 
North America Freemen a, 600,000 
- I... Slaves 400,000—3,000,000 

Sugar Colonies Freemen 8jZ,ooo 

Slaves 418,000 — 500,000 . 

Colonies 3>5°°>o«° 

Empire 15,000,000 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 95 

before America was declared independent, Ire- 
land made a feparate ftate, and Tobago, with 
ail its improvements, given up to France ; and 
it is a fubjecl of too much chagrin, to adapt 
them now to our new condition. 

The fugar colonies produce fugar, rum, 
coffee, cocoa, cotton, ginger, pimento, indigo, 
tobacco, aloes, mahogany, fweetmeats, &x. 
Thefe valued all as cafks of raw fugar, each of 
1 200 lb. at the King's beam, London, may be 
euYimated'in moderately productive years, as 
below. To complete the view, the inhabitants 
are added. 



Iflands Free 


Inhabitants 


Slaves 


Staple redu- 
ced to cafks 


Barbadoes 

Tobago 

Grenada and Grenadillas 


ao,ooo 
1 ,000 
7,000 


80,000 

8,000 

30,000 


of 


Sugar 
24,000 
6,000 
36,000 


St. Vincent's 
Dominica, 


4,000 
4,000 


15,000 
15,000 




10,000 
30,000 


Antigua 
Montferrat 


6,000 
a,ooo 


36,000 
9,000 




2,0,00c 
6,000 


Kevis 


a, 000 


1 0,000 




8,009 


St, Chriltopher's 3, 000 
Anquilla, Tortola and 7 
its Dependencies 3 
Jamaica & its Dependencies 30,000 


47,000 

14,000 

174,000 




20,000 

10,000 

100,000 


Total 


8a,ooo 


418,000 


250,000 



The fugar baker in Britain pays for fugar, the 
chief article, from ^24 to ^30 per cafk. 
Hence the value of the ftaple is feldom below 

^6,000,000 



96 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

£ 6,000,000 per annum. The (laves eftirnated 
at £ 50 each will exceed the fum of 20,000,000. 
The lands, buildings, and other ftock, may be 
fet down at twice this fum, or £ 40,000,000. 
We have then the Weft-Indian ftock, exceed- 
ing £ 60,000,000 and giving a yearly produce 
of 6,000,000. About ,£1,000,000 of this 
laft comes into the exchequer, for duties on 
fugar, rum, &c. And there cannot be lefs than 
/ 800,000 raifed on the trade of the iflands, 
aiid on the planters, who refide, and fpend their 
fortunes in England. The freight, agency, 
light-houfe money, ftorage, infurance, and other 
incidental charges, are a full million more of 
gain to Britain. And as the whole is put in 
motion, and draws its worth from the labour of 
flaves, it clearly proves their prefent importance, 
and their claim to national attention. 

Indeed, the whole balance of their annual 
produce may be fuppofed as remaining with 
Britain. For there is not referved in the colonies, 
a part fufficient to make the neceffary improve- 
ments, in many cafes, not even to keep up the 
ftock. And even what is fpent in the iflands, 
is laid out in the purchafe of Britifhor American 
commodities ; but much the largeft (hare is 
kept in Britain, to be fpent, or to pay the intereft 
of five or fix millions of money due there. In 
fhort, they may be confidered as manufactories 
eftablifhed in convenient diftant places, that 

draw 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 0J 

draw all their utenfils from, and fend all their 
produce to, the mother country. 

I have fuppofed the medium produce to be 
^6,000,000, as the prime coft in Britain ; 
but after pafling through the hands of the 
manufacturer, it mull: coft the confumer full 
^8,000,000. 

SECT. II. 

Their prefent importance to Society would be N 
increafed by Freedom, • 

FROM this view of the importance of our 
Haves, in their prefent ftate, (for they alone 
(lamp a value on Weft-Indian property) it will 
clearly follow, that to improve and advance 
their condition in foc'ial, to enccurage and in- 
ftru£fc them in moral life, would be as politi- 
cally profitable, as it is religious and humane. 
Were their condition advanced, they would be- 
come more worthy, more valuable fubje&s. 
They would produce much more by their la- 
bour, and agreeably to that great purpofe of 
modern police, financeering, by the confumption 
of more manufactures, they would increafe the 
public revenue.* 

Inftead 

* A French author fneers at Boyle, for propofing to propa- 
gate Chriftianity among favages, with a view to make them 

F wear 



98 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

Inftead of confining their demands, as at pre- 
fent, to a few coarfe woollens and Ofnaburgs, 
to a little grain, a few herrings, and falt-fifh, 
they would open a new traffic in every branch 
of trade, and while they improved our com- 
merce, they would add to the ftrength and fe- 
curity of the colonies. The few, who by acci- 
dent, or indulgence, have been advanced in fa- 
cial life, make even now a confiderable addition 
to the internal confumption of the white inha- 
bitants. And how much to be preferred, a 
numerous free peafantry is to a few over-grown 
families, and their herds of naked, half flarved 
ilaves, is too evident to need explanation. 

There are about 30,000 inhabitants in St. 
Chriftopher's, of which not more than one in 
ten is free. They are in dread of infurrecYions 
In time of peace, and in time of war are expo- 
fed to every fort of depredation ; every pitiful 
privateer, while hovering around, alarming the. 
coaft, and endangering their fafety. For at 
thefe times the ilaves, far from adding to their 

flrength, 

wear clothes, and thereby increafe the demand for Englifh 
manufactures. Perhaps he aimed to catch men, by the bait 
o r intereft, who were dead to fentiments of religion and hu- 
manity. Still the obfervation fhews, how much a progrefs in 
religion draws after it focial advantages, and civilization, of 
which the Moravian miflions in Greenland are a moft convin- 
r'ng proof. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 99 

ftrength, weaken and diminifh it. But if all 
the inhabitants were free, and had property 
and families to fight for, what fhould they have 
to fear, who could draw out full 8000 hardy 
men, habituated to the climate, and, within 
five hours, have them ranged in order againft 
any enemy that might affail them. 

That fugar may be made by white labourers, 
appeared in the firft fettlement of our iflands, 
especially Barbadoes. In the mod flourifhing 
ftate of that Ifland, the fugar-cane was chiefly 
cultivated by white fervants. It has fenfibly 
and gradually decayed in trade and importance, 
fince the majority of its inhabitants has been, 
changed from free-men to flaves. The flock 
of the planter has indeed been increafed with 
the number, and the price of his flaves ; but 
his neat produce has not kept pace with it. 
Even after this ifland had been fome time on 
the decline, one plantation (the Bell) fitted out 
a company of foldiers for the expedition formed 
in 1 69 1, under Codrington, againft Guada- 
loupe. If there be now on the fame fpot, four 
white men, including the proprietor, able to 
bear arms, it is a great proportion. From this 
we may judge, how much the ifland has fince 
loft in trade and fecurity, even after allowing 
largely in the calculation. Yet it continues 

F 2 to 



too on the Treatment and 

to fupport a greater proportion of free-men thai* 
our other iflanda.* 

To this inftance of making fugar by freemen, 
we may add the example of Cochin China. It 
fupplies the populous empire of China with fu- 
gar, made by free-men. The quantity export- 
ed is eflimated at 800,000,000 pound, or a- 
bout 500,000 of eafks, which greatly exceeds 
the quantity of fugar made in the ifles, and 
continent of America, by African flaves. And 
this quantity may be fuppofed capable of being 
greatly increafed, if the manufacture was carri- 
ed on in the fame accurate manner as in the 
European colonies. For, according to Le 
Poivre, the cane juice is only boiled into fyrup 
at the place of growth, and in that ftate is 
carried to the feveral towns, to be fold to the 
fugar baker, who boils, refines, and candies it. 
After this tedious procefs, brown fugar is fold 
at 3s. 4d. per hundred pound, white fugar 
6s. 8d. and candied fugar at 8s. In our iflands 
brown fugar is worth by the 100 pound, from 
20s. to 36s. fterling, and yet many of our 
proprietors cannot pay their interefl-money, and 
fupport their flock, without fuppofing any fhare 

of 

* About the tim* of the reftoration, the i (land of St. Chrif- 
topher's contained about 10,000 French and Englifh. capable of 
bearing arms. About 1650, Nevis could arm above 5000.. 
The whole prefent militia of both iflands exceeds not icoos 
Such a deftroyer is flavery of population. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. IOI 

of the produce to be allotted as the returns of 
their own capital. 



SECT. III. 

Their Mafters would be profited, by their 
advancement, 

I T might be difficult for government to 
form a plan, that mould at once extend full 
liberty to, and thereby beftow due rank on our 
flaves, without immediately indangering the 
property of their mafters, and of the trading 
part of the nation connected with them in bufl- 
nefs and intereft. And it muft be acknow- 
ledged, that fuch at prefent is the ignorant, 
helplefs condition of far the greater part of the 
flaves, that full liberty would be no blefling to 
them. They need a mafter to provide and care 
for them. The plan, propofed to advance and 
inftrucT: them, mull: be gentle, flow in its pro- 
grefs, keeping pace with the opening of their 
minds, and looking forward for its completion 
to a diftant period. 

T-he flaves, in that little fpot, St. Chrifto- 
pher's, moderately appraifed, would exceed 
^1,300,000, and as they are part of a flock 
°f ^4jOoo 3 ooo, and give effect and life to 

that 



102 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

that flock, the fruits of their labours being in 
moil years worth to the confumers, £ 700,000, 
it is evident that an immenfe change or rather 
annihilation of property would be occafi- 
oned, if this fcheme took at once effect in the 
colonies; nor would it be poffible to find the 
matters an equivalent. 

While I acknowledge this in favour of the 
matter, as things are now fituated, I am firmly 
of opinion, that a fugar plantation might be cul- 
tivated to more advantage, and at much lefs 
expence, by labourers who were free-men, than 
by flaves. Men who, like (laves, .are ill treated, 
ill clothed, and worfe fed, who labour not with 
any view to their own profit, but for that of a 
matter, whom for his barbarity they perhaps 
abhor, have not ftrength, nor fpirits, nor hope 
to carry them through their talk. A free-man, 
labouring for himfelf, -in the earning of his 
wages, whofe food is portioned out by himfelf, 
not by an unfeeling boy overfeer ; who feels his 
own vigour, who looks forward to the conveni- 
ences of life as connected with his induttry, will 
furely exert more ttrength, will (hew more 
alacrity, than a ftarved, depreffed, difpirited 
wretch, who drawls out his tafk with the whip 
over him. 

It is a common day's labour, where the work 
is carefully performed, for thirty grown flaves 

to 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 03 

to dig with hoes, in a loofe gravelly foil, an- 
acre of ground, into holes of five feet by four, 
from about feven to twelve inches deep, leaving 
fpaces between the rows equal at lead: to half 
the holes, untouched, to receive the mould. 
The (hare of fuch a piece of work to one (lave, 
will be a fpof of nearly fifty by thirty feet., 
including the untouched fpaces. A tafk this, 
that might be more than doubled, by a labourer 
of ordinary ftrength, having fpirits and inclina- 
tion to the work. 

In St. Chriflopher's, i 6,000 (laves, all capable 
of fome labour, are emoloyed in the cultivation 
of about 1 1,000 acres; for the whole cane- 
land of the iiland is about 22,000 acres, and each 
field gives a crop once in two years. This is 
in the proportion of three Haves to the annual 
culture of two acres ; a rate that would be 
unneceffary among free-men, and which the 
Britifh prices for Weil Indian produce could 
alone fupport. It may be remarked, that this 
labour has no winter ceiTation. 

The common appraifement of prime field 
flaves, before the American war, was £ 60 
fterling each ; the annual rent of a flave Was 
from £6 to ^8. The renter enfured them, if 
valued, at five per cent, or ^3 more. A plan- 
tation flave cofts the employer~*then, without 
reckoning food, clothes, phvfic, or taxes, full 



104 0N THE TREATMENT AND 

£ I o per annum, or one fixth part of his appraifed 
value. A number of (laves, capable of produc- 
ing on a plantation, well furnifhed with live 
ftock and necefiary buildings, ioo caiks of fugar, 
annually at a medium, making but a moderate 
allowance for their deaths in feafoning, if bought 
from the flave-merchanr, will amount on value, 
to £6000. In the new iflands, before fuch a 
number could be relied on, they have in every 
cafe cod much more; in one, within the author's 
knowledge, above the double of this fum. The 
quantity of fugar here fuppofed, and the rum 
arifing from it, in mod: fituations will not keep 
the plantation in necelTary ftores, and pay the 
current expences, and fupply a fund to anfwer 
fuch accidents as hurricanes, blafts, fire, morta- 
lity, and unfavourable feafons, and alfo give 
/ 1 200 to the proprietor, as the produce of 
his lands, buildings, (laves, and other flock. 

If his flaves be confide red as rented from 
another man, and he infures them to the owner, 
£ looo of this £ [200 is immediately to be 
itruck off, as the value of the flaves labour. 
There remains to the proprietor £ 200, as the 
return of his lands, buildings, and cattle. In fuch 
a plantation the buildings often have cod: ^3000 
fterling, fometimes more ; the cattle, horfes, 
and mules mult, be worth from £ 600 to^T 1000. 
Perhaps the proprietor has. paid from £ 10,000 
t0 ^l 2 > 00 ° for the lands. The reader 

may 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 10$ 

may be affured this is no ideal calculation, 
but in the ifland of St. Chriftopher, though our 
mod productive fugar colony in proportion to 
its fize, has frequently come within the author's 
observation. And is labour fo injudicioufly laid 
out in any other part of the world ? Can any 
reafons be given, why a fugar planter fhould 
prefer the employing of {laves to that of free- 
men, feeing with a large diminution of returns, 
he may have a much larger clear income than at 
prefent. An argument, that when duly weighed, 
renders our expectations of the extenfion of 
liberty, though diftant, not extravagant. 

But we will confider the policy of employing 
flaves purchafed with money, in another point 
of view. In a free country, a peafant in general 
executes twice the work of a Have in the fugar 
colonies; we might go farther, but this is 
fufficient for our purpofe. On the other hand 
the peafant's food is more found, more plentiful, 
his clothes more expenfive than thofe of a 
ilave; but not in proportion to the difference 
in value of their labour, perhaps not exceeding 
greatly the infurance, and other incidental 
charges of flavery. In general, this food and 
raiment are all that the peafant, as well as the 
flave, reaps from his labour, few of them 
railing themfelves by their induitry to a fuperior 
ftation ; and when they do this, it is effected 
by fuperior induftry, or keennefs, and greater 
F 5 parfimony, 



106 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

parfimony, rather than by extraordinary wages, 
The whole then of a peafant' s labour (that 
proportion excepted, which the flave in a cer- 
tain degree alfo claims from his toil) becomes 
the profit and property of his employer, as fully 
and truly as if he were a flave ; with this 
difference in favour of the firft, that the obliga- 
tion, or tie between him and his mailer, ends 
with the day's, or year's labour, and draws no 
difagreeable or expenfive confequences after it, 
to either of the parties. 

Now from the fuperior progrefs of population 
in free countries, compared with that of thofe 
wherein flavery prevails, when a peafant dies^ 
his place is immediately fupplied in the courfe of 
generation ; the employer fuffers no damage^ 
or lofs of time ; and while labour and improve- 
ment go equally on, even the public, to which 
every perfon in a free ftate may be faid to 
belong, is not fenfible of the event. In fhort, 
in a free {late, the death of an individual is like 
a (lone caft into the water, it makes a fudden 
feparation of the parts, but the water clofes 
on it, and fettles into a fmooth furface, as if no 
accident had preceded. But to his maft er, the 
death of a flave is a fenfible fevere lofs, which 
he muft immediately repair, at an heavy expence, 
that, after being incurred, will not make him 
the fame profitable returns, as the labour of a 
peafant for which he pays (and that not till 

after 



CONVERSION OF AFRIC AN SL A VES. 107 

after the execution of the work) only fuch a 
value as he ought to expend in the maintenance 
of his flaves. The eflimation of ufeful flaves, 
without taking luft, caprice, or favour into 
account, is according to their trades and accom- 
plifhments, from £ 50 tOj£ 300 flerling. Hence 
the death of a valuable flave becomes a mod 
ferious matter to the matter, while a peafant, or 
tradefman, will do him fuperior fervice, without 
original expence, or daily riik to him, or to 
the public. 

This is a view of the fubje£r, and a manner- 
ofreafoning in it, which cannot, I apprehend,, 
be controverted, and plainly proves, that could 
we contrive a method of once getting over the 
firft fhock, which fuch a change would occafion, 
and fet down free-men and women (who in the 
common progrefs of population, might fupport 
or increafe their original number, in cur colo^. 
•nies) in the room of flaves, we mould lefTen the 
nominal value of the necelTary flock, contract, 
the expences of individuals, and much more than 
double their prefent profit. Here, then, we 
have an argument againft (lavery, which applies 
equally to the intereft of the mailer, and the 
advantage of the public, and ought to gain a fair 
hearing for every plan, that prcpofes to leflen 
the numbers, and advance the condition of 
ilaves. And were we not afraid of ftartling the 
imaginations of people, by the extraordinary 

aflertion^ 



IOS ON THE TREATMENT AND 

afFertion, we would not hefitate to affirm, that 
were the minds of the negroes once opened, and 
properly prepared ; and were they in general 
confined to the cultivation of Weft-Indian pro- 
duce, and the trades connected with it ; and did 
government introduce from time to time, till 
things became fettled on the new bafis, at the 
expence of the colony, the neceffary recruits ; 
the general manurniiTion of (laves- would be 
attended with no immediate lofs to the planters; 
and, by taking away the neceffity of fupplying 
tbemfelves with recruits at their own expence, 
would be an important faving to them. Indeed, 
after one generation, recruits would not be 
wanted ; freedom would increafe faiter than 
death IJJened their numbers.*" 

A ftate 

* The reader will be pleated with the following fenfible 
remarks of a gentleman of Barbadoes, on his perufing this fec- 
tion in manufcript. 

Barbadoes, of all the Weft-Indian iflands, can the lead af- 
ford the immenfe expen-fe of an annual fupply of (laves. As 
the white inhabitants are numerous, flavery might be abolifhed 
in a few years, without an individual fuffering by it. The 
majority of the inhabitants are indigent. There are numbers 
of flaves, who, having been taught trades, are become highly 
valuable, of whom, one, two, or a few, are frequently the only 
Support of whole white families, who live in indolent poverty 
on the returns of their labour, and by their death find them- 
ft Ives reduced to the utmott diltrefs, and incapable of doing 
anything for themfelves. If this fort of precarious property 
weie not univerfally relied on, fo as to have a general ill efFe.61 
on the manners of the people, they would of neceffity be forced 
to be more induftrious in themfelvesj and more ceconomical in 

their 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. IO9 

A ftate of abfolute freedom is indeed a revo- 
lution that we may rather wifh for, than expect 
for fome time to fee, though doubtlefs it is 
within the plan of Providence, and of man's 
progreffive advancement in fociety. It fuppofes 
a regard for religion, a looking beyond immediate 
profit, and a .foimdnefs of policy, foreign to the 
eftimation, and opinion of the prefent age. To 
make the plan efte6tual, it fhouid prevail in 

every 

their expences. Iffkvery were checked, the poor white peo- 
ple, who, at prefent, (from the circumftance of their living 
meanly idle on the labours of others,) are perhaps the molt 
life Iefs, inactive fet of mortals, on the whole earth, would be 
obliged to exert themfdves in the cultivation of their own, and 
others lands, and foon would perceive their conAitutions and cir- 
cumstances equally improved The great land-holders would 
find their expences and their profits go hand in hand ; for they 
would pay only for productive labour. The rnoft induflrious 
labourers would command the beft employment, and the moil 
punctual pay would constantly have the preference. Thus 
punctuality and application would encourage each other, re- 
new the face of the colony, and put the whip and chain to 
fti2me. It would be a great ttep towards this defirable pur- 
pofe, if the introduction of Haves into the colony was prohibit- 
ed by ftstute, and all acts that lay fines upon thofe mafters 
who free their flaves, were repealed. Every method fhouid 
be ufed, that would induce the people to relpect the inftitutions 
of religion, and wean them from that carelefThefs refpecting 
them, which is fo prevalent, and has fuch baneful effects on their 
manners. The flaves in Barbadoes are perhaps more ripe for 
thefe privileges than thofe of our other colonies; becaufe the 
proportion of Creoles, or natives, is greater among them ; they 
are more convex fant with the free people, and are lefs pinned 
down than in other iflands to digging the ground. It is 
certain, they have in their prefent ftate been at different times 
trufted with arms ; corps of them have been formed, and on all 
occafions have difcovered an alacrity that promifed every pof- 
fible exertion. 



HO ON THE TREATMENT AND 

every European fettlement ; an event fo little to 
be expected from the manners which now 
prevail, that a man would not venture the 
imputation of fuch extravagance, as the bare 
fuggeftion of it would be deemed. For could 
fo many oppofing interefts be reconciled ; and 
fhould a partial innovation take place, that 
prelent bugbear of European policy, the balance 
of trade, would be fuppoied to be in danger* 

But were (laves inftruQied in the fimple pre- 
cepts of religion ; weretney taught tcdiftinguifh 
right from wrong ; did the law fecure to them 
a more plentiful fubfiftence, more humane ufage ; 
were they permitted to acquire and enjoy pro- 
perty ; were the rights of a family made facred ; 
could they look forward to freedom, as the reward 
of merit, or the purchafe of induflry ; in fhort, 
were they confidered as having fome rights, 
fome claims, as intitled to fome unalienable, 
fome of the referved rights of humane nature ; 
their condition would in confequence be ad- 
vanced, they would become more ufeful, more 
profitable fubjecls, and might even be trufted 
with arms, in defence of the colony in which 
they have an intereft. Indeed it is not their 
want of arms, but their good fenfe and modera- 
tion, in mod colonies, that are a prefent fecurity 
to the inhabitants. 1 forbear to fay more on fo 
dangerous a topic* SECT. 

* It is worthy of obfervation, that though the artificers in 
the King's dock yards had, from their firft efUblifhment, been 

engaged, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. Ill 



SECT. IV. 

'Their Mafters would be profited by allowing 
their Slaves the privilege of a weekly 
Sabbath. 

WE have proved, that the gradual extenfion 
of freedom would have the beft effects refpe&ing 

both 

engaged, and liberally paid, by the day, yet within thefe 
twelve years, it has been found molt expedient to employ and 
pay them by the piece, or ]ob ; the men turning more, and the 
public getting more work, and that cheaper done, than in the 
former method, when they juft drawled out the prefcribed 
number of hours, and like Cyrus's well-trained foldler, would 
fufpend the up-lifted axe, at the firft ftroke of the bell that 
called them off from their work. Good farmers alfo employ 
labourers, wherever they can, by the piece, and indutlrious 
men prefer it, as being mutually moft profitable. In Kent 
where there is the grcateft variety of agriculture, almoft every 
kind of work is paid for by the piece or job. 

If moderate fkilful planters would fet down, and reduce into 
a table, the feveral rates of negro-labour, by the day, and a 
ftatute were enacted, that fhould give the flave, who had per- 
formed this talk, the relt of his time to himfelf, or intitle him 
to wages for what he fhould do more than this ; and if all 
flaves were valued, and permitted by this their extra work 
gradually to buy out themfelves, or their time ; and if it were 
only provided, that after they became free, they fhould con- 
tinue to be employed about the bufmefs of a plantation; in 
this fituation, planters might have the original cod of their 
flaves repaid them, and would tlill have the fame people to 
do their work better than at prefent, for food and raiment; 
only fewer in number would anfwer their purpofe, and their 
intereft would not be arTecled by any accident that befel them. 
The labourers, on the other hand, when their jobs were flniflied, 

would 



1 12 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

both the mafter and the community. But it 
will require new regulations, and the confent of 
government and people, to eftablifh the plan. 
What follows here has already the fanclion of 
law, and is now the practice, in proportion 
to the difcretion and fellow-feeling of the 
mafter. The infringement on that reft of the 
fabbath, which we wifh to vindicate for the 
flave, is an indecent bfeach, both of religion 
and law, while it counteracts, in no fmall de- 
gree, its own mean purpofe of accumulation. 
But fuch is theprogreffive nature of the cravings 
of luxury and avarice, that if the cuftom once 
gets a footing, reafon in vain will folicit an 
hearing ; and religion has loft her influence, and 
law her authority, mould they attempt to 

interpofe, 

would be their own matters, and be able to enjoy them- 
felves, and their families. They would feel an ambition t& 
become worthy members of fociety, and to partake, with their 
former ^afters, now become their patrons and benefa&ors, 
in the inuitutions of a religion, that confidered them all afe 
equally the children of the fame benevolent Father. One .'m- 
mediate confequence of the relaxation of flavery, would be the- 
introduction of ploughs, which have always anfwered where- 
ever they have been tried, and are only thrown afide, becaufe 
it is eafier for a manager to order out a flave with his hoe in his 
hand, than to yoke horfes or cattle in a plough. It is indeed 
a maxim, in carrying on all labour, never to do that by a man, 
that you can execute by a brute ; nor to do that by ah animal, 
that you can maks a mechanical inftrument perform. Thus 
all hand-hoe ploughing, except in particular cafes, would be 
cut off, and all cattle mills for grinding canes would be ex- 
changed for water or wind mills. This method of working 
out freedom by labour is faid to be eftablilhed by a law in the 
Spanifh colonies, for the encouragement of their flaves. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. IIJ 

interpofe. Our only hope remains in being able 
to pre-occupy the judgment. As this refers to a 
particular event in one of our colonies, which 
is too likely to take place in others, the argu- 
ments are prefented to the public in their 
original drefs ; and thofe, who are bed ac- 
quainted with the treatment that flaves ufually 
meet with, will be lead: apt to imagine that the 
author has been too full, or too warm on the 
fubject. 

An Address to the Inhabitants of St. 
Christ opher'j, Anno> 1775, /hewing the 
Claim of Dependents to the Privilege of the 
Sabbath. 

SIRS, 

Within thefe lail ten months, a cuflom has 
been introduced among you, of employing 
flaves in carrying on the ordinary plantation 
work on Sunday, of ploughing the ground, 
planting, weeding, and grinding the cane, boil- 
ing the fugar, and diftilling the rum. It began 
on a particular plantation, and has found its way 
to each extremity of the ifland. It is true, it is 
not yet become general, and many planters firmly 
exprefs their diilike of a practice, which, in 
itfelf impolitic and injudicious, bids fair, if en- 
couraged, to banifh humanity, and annihilate a 
religion that barely ftrugg-les for exiftence in our 
land. But bad examples are contagious; and 
feeming intereft in fomeand emulation in others 

will 



114 ON THE TREATMENT AMD 

will go on, as they already have begun, to draw 
numbers into a cuftom that flatters induftry, and 
feeds the hopes of extravagance and avarice. 

No account of this fpreading violation of our 
laws and religion having yet been taken by the 
magiftracy, the trefpaflers are induced to believe 
that law cannot interpofe to check it : a miftake 
which it is neceflary to correct in men, who 
think nothing a crime but a deed for which 
law ordains a punifhment. As it fell to my lot 
to take the firft notice of this unhallowed 
practice, 1 have been obliged to pay an atten- 
tion to the fubjed ; and hence I am enabled to 
aflure thefe trefpaflers, who wrap themfelves up 
In their impunity, that when the cafe is brought 
before a court, they will not find a lawyer, 
however profligate his private character may 
be, who will riik his profeflional reputation by 
undertaking the defence of fo notorious a breach 
of human and divine laws : and could they find 
fuch a man, no judge or bench of magiftrates 
could allow him to plead againft the laws and 
religion of his country. Their defence mud be 
confined to a Ample denial of the fa£t. 

If we view the matter in a religious light, 
the fabbath is appointed by God for fuch pious, 
humane, and even wordly-wife purpofes, as to 
lead us to conclude, that nothing will more rea- 
dily draw down judgments on, nor fooner exe- 
cute 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I I 5 

cute the ruin of, a finful community, than a 
contempt of this benevolent inftitution. Sab- 
bath-breaking makes a conftant capital figure 
among the crimes that kindled God's wrath 
againft the Jews. Farther, from God's ftric"t 
injunction to them, from whom we derive this 
inftitution, to punifh, even to deftru£tion, any 
family or city that they mould find guilty of 
idolatry among them, which was an offence 
fimply againft his authority ; we may conclude, 
that if a community fufTers an infult on this law 
of the fabbath, which has both his authority 
and general benevolence in view, to pafs un- 
punished, it will, by fuch its neglect, fubje£r. to 
his wrath not only individuals that are actually 
guilty of the crime, but the magiftracy and 
people at large, who are thus carelefs of vindi- 
cating his honour and the claims of humanity. 
I will leave it to yourfelves, after what you have 
lately fuffered in your fins, to determine what 
rieed you have to give the Governor of the 
world this new provocation againft you. Woe 
, be to that community which forces the Deity to 
refume the vindication of his laws from the 
hands of the ordinary magiftrate. Undiftinguifh- 
ing ruin will involve the lukewarm profeffor 
and hardy trefpafTer together. May Providence, 
by your reformation, avert the evil which every 
thinking man dreads on your account. To 
contribute to this end, and fet fuch right as 

have 



Il6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

have been unwittingly drawn into the practice, 
who yet have minds open to conviction, we 
fubmit to them the following confiderations : • 

The good man, on the fabbath, interrupts 
his ufual employments, not only to have leifure 
to review his conduct, to improve his mind for 
futurity, to reflect on, and blefs God for his 
mercies, but alfo for the fake of his dependents : 
they are indulged with a refpite from labour, 
and a weekly feftival, which make fervitude to- 
lerable. This companion is followed by its 
proper reward. Continual toil would wear out 
the conftitutions of fervants long before their 
natural period of decay ; but, during this day 
of refl, they renew their ftrength, and the hopes 
of its weekly return make them chearfully un- 
dergo their common labour. The ufeful ox 
repays the indulgence in patient enduring. 

Indeed, this day of reft, which God com- 
mands us to allow all whom he hath fubmitted 
to our rule, is an acknowledgment, that he 
obligeth us to pay for the dominion he hath 
granted us over the lower world. And, there- 
fore, though the promulgation and extent of 
this precept reft on the pofitive command of 
God expreffed in fcripture, yet is the foundation 
moral : it is laid deep in the principles of hu- 
manity, grows up with obedience to our Creator, 
and flourifheth with equity and benevolence to 

our 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I I 7 

our fellow-creatures. It is a mark of hoiding 
our power from God, a right referved to him- 
felf, to mew his care of even the meaneft of his 
creatures. And it teacheth us, in a manner 
plain for him that runneth to read it, that we 
had not our prefent rank in the creation be- 
llowed on us, to be the unfeeling tyrants, but 
the merciful protestors, of the inferior world. 

But as a contrary practice is now introduced 
here, with a parade, indeed, of fuperior induftry, 
but a fovereign contempt of decency, common 
opinion, religion, and law ; we mud difcufs this 
point of indulgence to dependents, and (hew, 
(befides contradicting the motives above, which 
I hope have yet fome influence among man- 
kind) that he, who falls into fo inconfiderate a 
practice, fins againft prudence, and counteracts 
that aim after opulencej which can be the only 
pretence for fo extraordinary, fo alarming a 
conduct. In doing this, we need not enter into 
any nice phyfical difquifition concerning the 
animal powers of the labouring part of the 
creation, nor into any train of reafoning, to Ihew 
the neceffity of a frequent fucceflion of reft to 
labour to preferve the animal machine from 
wearing out before the period fet by nature : 
"we will appeal to your own experience, whe- 
ther thofe men reap not the moft lading advan- 
tages from the labour of their oxen, their horfes, 
and that frill more ufeful, though neglected ani- 
mal, 



Il8 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

mal, called a negroe flave, who confult their 
feveral feelings, and give the fignal to ceafe from 
toil, before the languid effort of wearinefs fo- 
licits refpite. Are they the moft fuccefsful in 
the field of induftry, or do they moft enjoy the 
evening ot life, who conftantly put forth all 
their ftrength, who rife early, and la^e take 
reft ; or they, who fo temper labour and reft, 
that each defires the return of the other. Look 
around among your neighbours, whofe flaves, 
whole cattle, are the moft healthy, or exert the 
greateft vigour ; who fuffers leaft by: their mor- 
tality ; who reaps moft from their labour ? Is it 
not he who encourages, favours, fpares them, 
who properly nourilhes them, and never en- 
croaches on the hour of food or reft ? Or can 
any temporary acquifition, wrung from unfea- 
fonable labour, compenfate for an hofpital filled 
with wretches dead or dying, for a crew of 
haggard, difeafed fpe&res, whofe ruined confti- 
tutions, and famiftted looks, reproach the avarice 
of the hard-hearted mafter. 

Is it faid, in return, that the mafter buys this 
extraordinary labour, on Sunday, with an ex- 
traordinary price. Let me afk him, who gives 
this reafon, would he pufh a generous horfe, 
till the noble animal himfelf gave out ? And is 
he to care lefs for a creature of his own kind, 
becaufe anxious to recommend himfelf to his fa- 
vour by a {trained exertion of his ftrength ? The 

mafter, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 19 

matter, by the very tenure of his authority is 
obliged to confult the conftitution oi thofe who 
labour for him, that he may reftrain their efforts 
within their ability, and keep their fervice to 
him wichia the limits of their own perfonal hap- 
pinefs. if, as fome pretend, it be meant to in- 
creafe the allowance of food, by this new cuf- 
tom of Sunday's wages, let them tell why, till 
now, they have provided fo fcantily for their 
flaves, as to make this addition neceffary ; or 
let them give a good reafon why a wretch who 
drudges the fix days for another man's luxury, 
mould not eat plentifully, and have the feventh 
atfo for a day of reft. 

If the planter fays he only bribes other mens 
flaves into his Sunday's fervice, let him go to his 
neighbour, and alk him for the ufe of his cattle 
during the hours allotted for food and reft, and 
report his anfwer ; or let him attempt to take 
them away, and work them clandeftinely, and 
fee whether they will not be reclaimed. And 
(hall a confiderate mafter, who works his flaves 
to their full ability \ and who, it fhould be pre- 
fumed, feeds them properly, fuffer them to wear 
their ftrength out in another man's fervice for 
a little paultry hire, that ought not to be necef- 
fary for them ? Or, if he did, could he expe£t 
them to exert themfelves with vigour for him 
in the week, when their ftrength has been worn 

down 



120 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

down in his neighbour's fervice on Sunday, and 
they have not had time to recruit it? God who 
beft knows the conftitution of his creatures, and 
formed them exprefsly for labour, hath allotted 
for reft not only the nightly fucceflion of dark- 
nefs and weekly return of the fabbath, but has 
divided every Tingle day into fhort intervals of 
labour and reft, by making a frequent repetition 
of food neceflary for recruiting and refrefhing 
the body. And (hall we pretend to be wifer 
than he is, or to know better what the animal, 
conftitution is capable of performing ? 

One reafon is given for this cuftom, which 
puts the obfervation of Sunday as a day of 
reft, on plantations, wholly in the overfeers 
power : if a Have behaves to the fatisfacfcion 
of the overfeer throughout the week, he is to 
be indulged with Sunday, if not he fhall work 
there on his mafter's field. And this humane 
reafon is added, that the common punifhment 
of withholding their ufual allowance of food is 
injudicious, and therefore working on Sunday 
is fubftituted for it. I am ready to give up the 
propriety of ftarving men a3 a mode of punifli- 
ment. But is not the obliging them to work 
on Sundays alfo to ftarve them ; feeing, in the 
prefent pinched method of feeding them, every 
flave is forced to eke out his portion with his 
private Sundays labour? And doth not this 
extraordinary labour on Sunday act as a farther* 

lelfening 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I2[ 

leffening of their allowance, by wearing out 
their ftrength in toiling on the day in which 
they fhould have had leifure to recruit it after 
the week's labour, while the means of acquir- 
ing food by private labour to repair this extra- 
ordinary wafte are withheld from them. 

But we give Sunday, as a day of red: to 
our flaves, in obedience to the command of 
our common Father. And nothing but a duty, 
fuperior in its eonfequences, and immediate in 
its call, or an unforefeen opportunity of doing 
an a& of benevolence can fet it afide. Now as 
^ duty owing immediately to God, it cannot 
be affe&ed by any pretended interefl of our 
own, or demerit on our fervants part. Are 
God's laws to be fo little efteemed of, that 
every unthinking boy, fet over a few helplefs 
wretches, "with a whip in his hand, may annul 
them at pleafure ? Shall he, to punifh a trifling 
offence againfl: the plantation discipline, too 
frequently exifling only in his own mifappre- 
henfiori or neglect, be allowed to make havock 
of the laws of religion and his own duty to 
God ? Unhappy age into which we are fallen, 
when, leaving the plain road of obedience,, we 
fet up to reform the laws and religion, not of 
our country only, but of our God ! 

It is fuggefted further, that in crop time, 
in particular quarters, the ripe canes are fo apt 

G to 



122 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

to become tainted, that it is a work of necef- 
fity to grind them off on Sunday. To this we 
anfwer, " The God of feafons enjoined the 
obfervation of the fabbath, and his laws are 
ultimately for the benefit of the obedient." 
The circumftance here pleaded may be intend- 
ed for an exercife of our trufl: in his Provi- 
dence, but can never come under the defcrip- 
tion of thofe works of necefiity or mercy, that 
are not only proper, but commendable on Sun- 
day. Sagacity may forefee, prudence may pro - 
vide for fuch accidents ; method and good ufage 
may, and where ufed, actually do, increafe the 
tale of labour, on common days, far beyond 
what is forced out on this day appointed for 
reft. And were not this, which yet may be, 
in every cafe, true, yet God's veracity and 
providence are engaged that his fervants mould 
itot ultimately fuffer by their obedience. But, 
as we have remarked, and fhall further prove, 
the truth is, this continued toil over-a<5ts the 
purpofe of induftry, without fuppofing God, 
in his Providence, to punifh the infult done to 
his laws and religion. 

One reafon is given for this practice, that 
carries a face of concern for religion, but is 
fufficiently abfurd, and felfifh in the applica- 
tion. " Slaves cannot keep the fabbath as 
ChrifHans ; and if not employed for their mat- 
ters, will labour for themfelves." Now the 

trifling 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I2j 

trifling Sundays works, in their own grounds, 
which an injudicious cuftom has permitted, 
and their fcanty allowance of food has made 
neceflary, is done in fuch manner and circum- 
ftances, as makes it more an amufement than 
a labour; nor can it be compared with toiling 
in their matter's field under the whip of an 
overfeer. But lean recollect a particular plan- 
tation, where the manager, fome years ago, 
with a good intention, made the (laves exert 
themfelves on Sundays, as much in their own 
ground, as in their matter's fields, throughout 
the week ; and the confequence was, that 
from this inceflant fatigue, the plantation re- 
quired a yearly fupply of (laves, above a tenth 
part of the whole number maintained. Since 
they have beenjeft to their own inclinations 
on Sundays, they have been mod remarkably 
healthy ; nor, I believe, had or needed a re- 
cruit thefe latt (ixteen years. The plantation 
is particularly well fupplied with provifions ; 
and the (laves have been treated with peculiar 
humanity and method. 

But if (laves do not hallow the fabbath in 
a rational manner, cannot their matters and 
overfeers^ by their own behaviour, fan&ify it. 
And, furely to overlook what you cannot pre- 
vent in another, differs widely from the com- 
manding of him to commit a crime, of which 
you mean to reap the advantage. That (laves 
G 2 cannot 



124 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

cannot rationally keep the fabbarh is matter of 
ferious concern. I pray God we may not all 
be made accountable for it. Still allow this 
argument what weight you pleafe ; God is the 
God of the bodies as well as of the fouls of his 
creatures, and he wills and attends equally to 
the welfare of both ; and the fabbath is intend- 
ed to refrefh the one, and improve the other. 
Oxen and horfes cannot keep a Chriftian fab- 
bath ; yet, their Creator refpe&s their eafe* 
and, among other purpofes, appointeth the fab- 
bath ex.prefsly to favour it. And, furely, God 
doth not lefs regard the bodily fenfations of hu- 
man wretches, becaufe in his Providence, for 
hidden yet certainly wife purpofes, he hath hi- 
therto fuffered them to be immediately fub- 
je£ted to the caprice, the avarice, the cruelty 
of their fellows, though endued with keener 
feelings than the brutes, and greater fenfibility 
-of their claims. Farther, God accepts favour- 
ably what fervice and thanks his creatures are 
able to pay him ; and the fimple rude way in 
which negroes, in their Sunday's amufements, 
exprefs their fatisfaclion in his difpenfations, 
will not be rejected, but be received with ap- 
probation and condefcenflon to their weaknefs. 

When we have made every allowance that 
charity or confederation can fuggeft, no man 
acquainted with the ufual progrefs of human 
affairs, and the conftant tendency of cuftom, 

but 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 25 

but mud fee, in this unhallowed, hired, Sun- 
day's labour, the haftening abolition of refpecl: 
to that day, and of extraordinary hire for 
working on it. Poverty is craving ; avarice 
infatiable j luxury boundlefs. And were Sun- 
day once melted down into the week, men 
would try what more could be cut off from 
the darknefs, and folitude, and reft of night. 

But without taking into account the inhu- 
manity, the immorality, the imprudence, the 
irreligion of the practice; what impudence, 
refpecting fociety, doth it imply, when thus a 
private man fets his felfifh opinion up againft 
the laws of his country, and dares to infult 
them publickly, by acting in direct oppofition 
to an exprefs flatute? H^w pregnant in ili 
confequences mud the example be, in a com- 
munity where cuftom has reduced almofl the 
%vhole of an eftablifhed religion to bodily reft 
on the fabbath ? Piety, foon, will not have 
a fingle thread of communication by which to 
lay hold on our practice. How neceffary, 
therefore, to fix a mark on fuch profane con- 
duel, before cuftom has ftamped a failiion on 
it, and fancYified it ? And often, for what is 
humanity, religion and law thus wounded ? 
To anfwer the demands of extravagance, to 
fill the bags of avarice, to fupply the funds 
of luxury. Slavery, in its mUdeft fhape, has 

fornething 



126 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

fomething dangerous and threatning to virtue ; 
but when the very marrow and blood of our 
fellow creatures are exhaufted in the cruel fer- 
vice of avarice or fenfuality, the equal Father 
of all mud call* in fome dreadful vengeance 
to puniih the abufe. 

I mean not fo much to reflet on indivi- 
duals, who may already be guilty of this unfeel- 
ing, imprudent practice, as to exalt to its 
proper motives of religion, benevolence, and 
obedience to your country's laws, that abhor- 
rence which hath been entertained againfl an 
action that is an outrage to common fenfe, 
and common opinion; and which, we are 
taught in fcripture, never fails to draw down 
God's wrath on the people who permit it to 
be done with impunity among them; It is an 
offence, which, if not checked in its progrefs, 
may renew thofe judgments that for our fins 
were lately poured out on us ; under which 
we now, and long muft continue to fmart ; 
without provoking farther God's vengeance, 
or obliging him to fend new or extraordinary 
punifhments to chaftize or reclaim us *. Could 
I keep you from the contagion of example, 
I mould rejoice. Whoever has thus finned 

* Since this period this colony has been 'greatly reduced by 
fire, floods, war, capture by the enemy, and fuch unfavour- 
able feafons, as had hardly happened before in the memory 
of man. «P 

againft 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 12/ 

againft God, and his country, fhall have my 
prayers, that he may be infpired with a right 
way of thinking. Of this be allured, that fuch 
an extraordinary mode of induftry is not the 
path in which God's bleffings are to be met 
with. And they who ufe it have reafon to fear,, 
left ad iflrefsful turn in their affairs make this 
day of liberty and reft, which they want to cut. 
off from fociety, the only day in which they 
dare to enjoy their freedom, f 

But if God did not, as certainly he doth, mix 
therewith a fecret canker, to eat up the Tub- 
fiance of the offender, yet the unfeeling, hurry- 
ing mode of thus working flaves, would, by 
wafting their ftrength and health, be of itfelf 
fufEcient punifhment. And, fuppofmg the ob- 
fervation of the fabbath to depend wholly for 
its fan£tion on revelation, and the breach of it 
to be followed by no natural lofs, which is far 
from the truth ; yet, if you be diligent and obe- 
dient to the law, for God's fake, he can, in his 
Providence, and will, in a thoufand ways, make 
up any imaginary facrifice of time and profit 
to a truft in his word, and will proceed in an 
inconceivable manner to biefs and profper you. 

•^ It is certain, that he who began this cuftom within twelve 
months durft not on any other day fhew hjs face for fear of 
bis creditors. 

I (hall 



128 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

I {hall conclude with an obfervation drawn 
from mechanics. Though a man of ordinary 
flrength can raife, at a Tingle effort, a much 
greater weight, yet the mofl advantageous ex- 
ertion of it is within thirty pounds weight ; and 
he, who works diligently eight hours a day, 
will do more work in a week, than he who 
drawls out in languid exertions fourteen hours. 



CHAP. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 129 



CHAP. III. 

the Advancement of Slaves mufl accompany 
their religious Injlruclion. 



I 



SHALL confider the advantage of pro- 
moting flaves in focial life, as proved beyond a 
poflibility of contradiction ; but, as my parti- 
cular aim is to get religion extended to them, 
I muft fliew that there is a connection between 
focial privileges and religious inftru&ion ; and 
that the making of a progrefs in either requires 
them to go hand in hand, and influence each 
other. That men were intended both for fociety 
and religion, and that thefe two were meant to 
fupport each other, is a conclufion to be- drawn 
from every circumftance that refpe&s our pow- 
ers and conftitution. The helplefs {late of in- 
fancy, the variety and inequality of our faculties, 
all attach us to a particular community, fit us 
for our various ftations in it, and give it an in- 
diffoluble claim to our fervice and affiilance. 
And religion brings conscience in to the aid of 
focial regulations, and fits the man for acting 
his part in his proper flation. 

Religion has a two-fold purpofe : man's ul- 
timate fate as an individual, and his conduct as 

a member 



I3O ON THE TREATMENT AND 

a member of fociety. Man, in order to become 
a good member of fociety, muflbe infpired with 
religious principles ; that he may not counteract 
the common views, out of fecret fraud, malice, 
or felfifhnefs, but be carried on to every gene- 
rous exertion by which the public happinefs can 
be effe&ed. Religion, then, mull enter into 
every plan that has the general good or profit in 
view. As far, therefore, as we refpedt the 
profperity of our country, we mufl wifh to ex- 
tend the influence of religion to all thofe who 
are comprehended within her laws. But, as 
Chriftians, we have ft ill a ftronger principle of 
action to excite us to exert ourfelves in enlarging 
the empire of religion by every benevolent me- 
thod within our power. Religion determines 
the future lot of the individual, and the grand 
principle of benevolence that runs through it, 
makes his happinefs depend on his doing all the 
good in his power here to his brethren around 
him. But the inftru&ion of our negroe flaves 
is an a£fc of goodnefs of the higheft and moft 
extenfive nature : and the circumftances of our 
having originally inflaved them, of their living 
intirely for, and depending on us, and too fre- 
quently being opprefied and cruelly treated by 
individuals among us, gives them the ftrongeft 
claim for receiving it at our hands. The pri- 
vileges of Chriitianity are of a diffufive nature, 
and have this condition among others annexed, 

that 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 3 I 

that we (hall communicate them ; freely we have 
received, freely we muft give. And, in a cafe 
where none within our reach are to be excepted 
from fharing in the benefit, how highly in- 
cumbent is it on us to exalt to reafon and reli- 
gion thofe whom our avarice has depreffed, 
even to brutality. 

But, becaufe, in the demand of duty we are 
often defirous of compounding matters, and in 
the prefent cafe, probably, may imagine that 
the higheft purpofes of religion may be gained 
without fuch an alteration in the condition of 
flaves, as while it refts on fpeculative arguments, 
may be thought fomewhat dangerous ; it will 
be neceflary to fhew, that, as the opprefled fitu- 
ation of negroe flaves prevents the coTnmunity 
from reaping many important advantages from 
them, fo it incapacitates them from making, in 
any confiderable degree, a progrefs in religious 
knowledge. To make a man capable of religion, 
we mufl endow him with the rights and pri- 
vileges of a man ; we muft teach him to feel 
his weight in fociety, and fet a value on him- 
felf, as a member of the community, before we 
can attempt to perfuade him to lay in his claim 
to heaven. To (hew the reader, therefore, the 
necetfity of advancing the flave, in the fcale of 
focial life, before we offer him a participation of 
our religion, I fhall relate the little efficacy of 
fuch attempts as have been made to communi- 
cate 



IJ2 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

.. i 

cate religious knowledge to him in his hitherto 
debafed ftate. And if fuch a communication 
be, as I have affirmed, not only a valuable but 
an indifpenfable object to, fociety, I (hall, in 
doing this, eftablifh the neceffity of improving 
his condition in focial life. 

SECT. I. 

Example's of the Difficulty found in inftrutl- 
ing Slaves in their prefent State. 

I A M forry td be obliged to remark how 
little^ till within thefe very few years, has been 
attempted or propofed on this head. For though 
the race of authors and projectors equal the 
leaves of the trees as much in their numbers, 
as they refembie them in the fhortnefs of their 
exiftence ; yet, unlefs we take into account a 
few unconnected attempts, a few general ftric- 
tdres, and fome unmeaning declamations, our 
Haves had hardly found a protector worthy of 
the appellation, till the publication of the late 
Hiftory of Jamaica; and' the vindication they 
have found in it, as we (hall have occafion to 
remark, is on fuch humiliating terms, as will, 
I fear, do them little good. Still the nature 
and ifiue of thefe attempts to inftruct and ferve 
them in their prefent oppreiled ftate, will be 
fufficient to mark that improbability of fuccefs 
which we have affirmed. 

Rcberlfon, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 33 

Robertfon, a minifter in Nevis, about fifty 
years ago, wrote prpfefledlyon the converfion of 
Haves in our colonies, and feems to have been 
willing to have laboured honeftly in it himfelf. 
But it is to be remarked of him, that he takes 
no notice of the intire want of law to fecure to 
them proper treatment, nor fo much as hints 
that this want is of any disadvantage to them. 
And, in refpecl: of their converfion, he plainly 
{hews that nothing confiderable can be done in 
it, unlefs government interpofe in earned: to 
carry it on. But before government can meddle 
with flaves, it muft take them firfl within the 
bofom of fociety, advance their condition, pro- 
tect in them the claims of human nature, and 
make them objects of police. 

He propofes that government mould keep up 
a number of miflionaries among the colonies, 
by rotation, whofe whole employment mould 
be to inftruQ: the flaves, as fail: as they acquired 
the language, or grew up to be capable of in- 
flrucYion. Their only reward, he thinks, mould 
be a prefent maintenance, and a promife of 
being provided for at home, when the time of 
their million was expired. In this plan, the 
reader will immediately obferve, that the miffi- 
onary will require fome time to gain a facility 
in teaching, and that, if he returns home after a 
few years, he muft refign to others his ftation, 

when 



134 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

when he is become fit to hold it. The time 
of his employment will, therefore, require to 
be regulated in a particular manner to obviate 
this inconveniency. 

He earneftly endeavours to exculpate the 
planters for having done fo little in this affair, 
from their hurry of bufinefs, their own igno- 
rance, their inability in point of fortune. He 
farther attempts to prove, that negroes, in ge- 
neral, are ill adapted for inflru&ion, by reafon 
of their fulkinefs, ftunidity, prejudices ; in 
many, an incapacity of making any tolerable 
progrefs in the language ; and, laflly the uni- 
versal careleflhefs that prevails among them 
about every thing that does not ftrike their fenfes. 

In ftiort, from his obfervations, a man would 
be apt to conclude, that he was of opinion that 
the manufacture of fugar, and the practice of 
religion, were things incompatible ; and that 
before we began to deliberate about the con- 
version of flaves, the previous queftion had need 
to be difcufied, whether we mould maintain this 
manufacture, or apply ourfelves to promote the 
growth of Chriftianity. But whatever may be 
the intrinfic merit of his plan, it has been too 
long before the public unnoticed, for us to expect 
much from it at this day. 

A planter 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 135 

A planter of , a man of education, 

and of a religious turn of mind, about twenty- 
four years ago attempted the converfion of his 
own flaves. He himfelf became their catechift 
and preacher. He increafed their allowance of 
food, clothed them decently, treated them with 
humanity, tried to reafon rather than whip 
them out of their faults, and granted them many 
indigencies in the hours and degrees of their 
labour. He purfued his plan during a good 
many years, and, as was faid, at firft with fome 
degree of fuccefs : but fome^ time before his 
death, according to the author's information, 
he gave up the defign, in defpair of effecting 
any thing confiderable by it. The caufes of 
his ill fuccefs, that have been affigned, were a 
relaxation of difcipiine refpecting their obedience 
and labour, for which they were not ripe ; and 
his infilling on too accurate an obfervation of 
the fabbath, in the manner of the Jews, while, 
they had no mental employment to fubftitute on 
it for their ufuat private labour, and focial 
amufements. In fhort, the indulgences that 
mould have been the reward of improvement 
and good behaviour, were made to precede them, 
and there was nothing left to allure them, or 
encourage them in the work. But, fince his 
death, feveral of his people have joined them- 
felves to the Moravians, who have a miflion m 
the colony. 

A con* 



I36 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

A confideraHe number of years ago, the 
abfent owner of a plantation fent out pofitive 
{landing inftru&ions to his manager, to have his 
flaves carefully initru&ed in the Chriftian reli^ 
sfion, and baptized. He accompanied this order 
with directions to treat them in every refpe£t. with 
confederate humanity, and to do for them what± 
ever was pofiible to make their ftate eafy, and 
their lives happy. The minifler of the parifh 
accordingly was applied to, and a recompence • 
for his trouble was agreed on. Here then was 
a profpecl: of a fair trial of what could poffibly 
be effected among (laves in their prefent ftate ; 
but the manager's injudicious choice of an 
inftru£tor blafted every reafonable expectation. 
The minifter was not even oftenfibly decent, 
and never affected to be guided by principles 
of duty that he did not feel. He faw nothing 
in the propofal but an increafe of income to 
himfelf, and was determined to intitle himfelf 
to it in the eafieft manner pofiible. The fol- 
lowing was his method : 

He came* to the plantation on a Sunday after- 
noon, and defired the manager to collect eight 
or ten flaves to be baptized. They were 
brought before him. He began to repeat the 
office of baptifm. When he had read as far as 
that part of the fervice where he was to fprinkle 
them with water, if their former name pleafed 
him he baptifed them by it j but if he thought 

it 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 37 

it not fit to call a Chriftian by, as was his opinion 
of Quamina, Rungee, and the like, he gave them 
the firfl Chriftian name which occurred to his 
memory. This name the bearer, perhaps, 
could not repeat, and fcarcely ever remembered 
afterwards ; fo that he continued to be dlftin- 
guifhed among his fellows by his old heathen 
name. 

The minifter, being once afked, what end he 
propofed in performing the ceremony in this 
fuperficial manner ? he frankly replied, " He 
f*. was paid for doing it ; it did the creatures 
" no harm ; and when they died, he fhould 
" be paid for burying them." Accordingly the 
manager compounded the matter with him, 
and gave him yearly a cafk of rum worth about 
£ 8 fterling, in lieu of furplus fees due for bury- 
ing them. He had alfo a falary of £ 20 for 
vifiting and praying with the f;ck, which* 
without being earned, he punctually received. 
For the baptifms, he was paid a certain fum. 

Some of the baptized would mutter, and 
fay, they defired not the parfon to throw water 
in their face ; which is all th^t they knew of the 
matter, and therefore were loth to fuffer them- 
felves to be fo dealt with. In fhort, if merely 
the making of them parties to a rite that they 
underftand not, and in which they take no active 
or rational fhare, doth initiate them into ChriiVs 

church. 



I38 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

church, then are they right good Chriilians. 
But if fome fhare of knowledge, if fome degree 
of affent be neceflary to give the minifter's 
conning over the office of baptifm before 
them, fome religious effect among them, thefe 
flaves can pretend to little Chriftianity. For 
here the plea of infant baptifm cannot be admit- 
ted, becaufe neither non-age nor after- inflruftion 
can be pretended. In this manner was unfuf- 
pe&ing piety impofed on, and fuch formerly 
were the miniflers recommended for the colonies. 

SECT. II. 

The Obftacles that the Moravian MiJJions 
have toftruggle with, 

THE Moravians (hew a remarkable and 
laudable degree of affiduity in making converts ; 
and, taking their difficulties into account, they 
have had, on the whole, no inconfiderabie 
fuccefs. Their difciples in Antigua are about 
two thoufand in number ; the fruits of twenty 
years labour. Several planters encourage their 
endeavours among their people. But fome 
years ago they received a rude fhock from an 
attempt of a particular matter to intrude on them 
Mr. Lindfay's tenets, which required their own 
firmnefs, and the affection of their converts to 
defeat. There are ufually three miflionaries. 
They have introduced decency and fobriety 

among 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 139 

among their people, and no mean degree of 
religious knowledge. They have infant millions 
in Barbadoes, St. Chriftopher's and Jamaica, f 

They have made the greateft progrefs in the 
Daniih colonies. In St. Croix they have fixed 
a bifhop," with feveral miniders and catechifls 
under him. They have chapels in the different 
quarters of the ifland. Many' gentlemen have 
private chapels for their ufe, and encourage 
them in their labours. Government counte- 
nances them; but the Danifh clergymen in the 
ifland do not favour or aflift them. 

Every evening, except on Saturday, they have 
diflin£t meetings, by turns, for their baptized 
and catechumens. Their hour of general wor- 
fhip is on Sunday evening ; the flaves being 
obliged to labour on that day for their fubfiftence. 
The converts are taught to ufe private devotions. 
When they go to, and leave off work, they 
fmg in concert a few hymns drawn up in the 
common language. Singing makes a coniider- 
able part of their common worfhip. 

The mofl fenfible, of both fexes, are raifed to 
the dignity of elders or helpers, to fuperintend 

each 



f- Every thing here faid concerning the fuccefs of the Mora- 
vians, and the good effe&s of it upon the flaves in Antigua, 
has been lately confirmed to me by a gentleman who has fpent 
many years in that ifland. But he adds, that the number of 
tiegroe convert^, iuftead ofzooo, is upward of 6000. 



140 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

each the behaviour of their fex, and to 
forward the work of inftrucYion. When a 
brother commits a fault, he is mildly reproved 
in private, or if it be of a public nature, before 
the congregation : if he obftinately perfitts in 
the fault, he is, for a time, deprived of the 
eucharift, or feparated from the congregation. 
This difcipUne feldom fails to produce repen- 
tance, on which he is readily re-admitted to the 
privileges of the fociety. 

In bringing them on in religious knowledge, 
they begin by drawing their attention particu- 
larly to the fufferings and crucifixion of our 
Saviour. When this is found to have made an 
impreflion on their minds, and filled their hearts 
with grateful fentiments, they then make them 
connect it with repentance and a good life. 
Submiflion to their matters, and full obedience 
to their commands, even to working in the plan- 
tation, when fo ordered, on Sundays, are ttrongly 
inforced ; or rather, they imprefs on them the 
neceflity of fubmitting to thofe irregularities 
which, in their ftate of fubje&ion, they cannot 
avoid, that their matters may have no complaint 
againft them, while labouring to gain the great 
point of general improvement. T^ieir greatett 
trouble arifes from the libidinous behaviour of 
overfeers among the female difciples, which, 
however, fome matters check as much as lies 
in their power, 

Ths 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I4I 

The great fecret of the mifn*onary's manage- 
ment, befides foliciting the grateful attention of 
their hearers to our Saviour's fufferings, is to 
contract an intimacy with them, to enter into 
their little interefts, to hear patiently their 
doubts and complaints, to condefcend to their 
weaknefs and ignorance, to lead them on flowly 
and gently, to exhort them affectionately, to 
avoid carefully magifteriai threatenings and 
commands. 

The confequences of this method are obferved 
to be a confiderable degree of religious know- 
ledge, an orderly behaviour, a neatnefs. in their 
perfons and clothing, a fobrkty in their carriage, 
a fenfibility in their manner, a diligence and 
faithfulnefsin their ftations, induflry and method 
in their own little matters, an humility and 
piety in their converfation, an univerfal unim- 
peached honefty in their conduct. 

The brethren in Europe are at the expence of 
the miflionary's journeys, and contribute to 
their maintenance. They have a fmall planta- 
tion in one of the Danifh i (lands, from which 
they draw part of their fupport. Some of the 
miffionaries, at their leifure hours, apply to me- 
chanic employments. The reft of their fimple 
maintenance arifes from trifling voluntary collec- 
tions among their difciples. Some of them are 
men of learning, others fimple well-meaning men. 

Their 



142 ON^THE TREATMENT AND 

Their bifhop is a man of plain good fenfe and 
difcretion. 

This account of the Moravians appears, at 
firft fight, to contradict my pofition, that the 
prrefent debafed Hate of flaves favours not reli- 
gious improvem ent. The circumftances in their 
favour are, that they are feen by their fcholars 
only as inflru&ors or comforters ; that they try 
to lofe fight of flavery and its confequences, and 
fhew their converts to themfelves only in the 
light of a religious fociety ; that, as far as the 
fimplicity of their rites will permit, they draw- 
imagination to their afliftance, and paint religion 
almoft in fenfible colours. 

But it may be obferved, that the authority 
of the mailer which they mull inforce, and the 
law of God, which they profefs to teach, mud 
often draw the hefitating (lave different ways, 
and fill his mind with doubt, which of the two 
is to be obeyed. God fets apart the fabbath to 
recruit the body for labour, and improve the 
mind for futurity; the mafter, having feized 
for himfelf the work of the week, obliges the 
Have to toil on that day for his own main- 
tenance i nay, not unfrequently for his (the 
mailer's) avarice. Doubtlefs, however it may 
fare with the profane mafter, the fate of the 
fiave himfelf is in the bed hands ; but he can 
acquire only an inferior kind of religion, and 

he 



conversion of African slaves. 143 

he muft hold even that at the caprice of one 
who, in himfelf, perhaps has no religion. A 
mitigation therefore of their flavery, and a com- 
munication of fome focial privileges, are ftill a 
neceflary foundation for any eminent degree of 
religious improvement. 

SECT. III. 

Inefficacy of the Author's private Attempts to 
inftruft Slaves. 

Though fome individuals may treat their 
ilaves with humanity and difcretion, yet we can 
give very few inftances of any attention fhewn 
to their moral improvement, or of any pains taken 
to enable them to become partakers of the gof- 
pel promifes. Religion is not deemed neceflary 
to qualify a flave to anfwer any purpofe of fer- 
vitude ; and while we wifh them to be diligent 
and faithful, we never think of placing a moni- 
tor within their breafts, nor of directing them 
to look up to God, as the obferver or rewarder 
of integrity. Indeed, in the relation of mailer 
and flave, there is fo little of what is reciprocal 
in the duty on one fide and advantage on the 
other, that it is hardly poffible to infufe any 
other principle than fear into the mind of a flave, 
or to make him confider himfelf in any other 
light than that of an unwilling inftument of his 
matter's tyranny and grandeur : a condition that 

leaves 



144 0N THE TREATMENT AND 

leaves him at liberty to feize every opportunity 
of making his fervice of as little ufe as he can 
to his mafler, and of making up for the pinching 
ill treatment that he receives from him, by pil- 
fering and purloining whatever lies open to him. 

When the author firft fettled in the Wefl- 
Indies, he freely and openly blamed the care- 
leflhefs of the inhabitants in a matter of this 
importance, and he refolved within himfelf to 
fhew how much might be done by one who was 
in earneft His flaves were well clothed and 
plentifully fed ; their employment, which was 
only the common work of a private family, was 
barely fufficient for the exercife neceflary to 
preferve their health. There was more than 
a fufficient number of them. In fhort, they 
were plump, healthy, and in fpirits. In the 
evening they were called in, and made to repeat 
the creed, the Lord's prayer, and a few other 
prayers that were reckoned bed adapted to 
them. Their CAity was explained to them in 
terms let down, as much as poflible, to their 
apprehenfion. Their fears, their hopes, their 
gratitude, were all made to intereft themfelves 
in the fubje£t. They were not puniihed for 
one fault in ten that they committed, and never 
with feverity. They were carefully attended 
when Tick. Nothing was at any time required 
of them but what was neceflary, and much 
within their ability. But the treatment may 

be 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 14$ 

be collected from ^his circumftance ; that in 
eighteen years, though they had been gradually 
increafing by births and purchafe from ten to 
twenty in number, not one had died in his fa- 
mily, except infants during the period of nurfing. 
In other refpe&s he cannot boafl greatly of his 
fuccefs. 

The firfl flave he poiTe fifed was a French ne- 
groe boy, who could tell his beads, and repeat 
his Pater-nofter. He was placed out in town 
with a barber : there he formed fuch acquain- 
tances, and acquired iuch habits of idlenefs, as 
made him a mod: irreclaimable run-a-way ; and 
forced his matter to difpofe of him at a lofs of 
twenty-four pounds fterling. He hired a fen- 
fible, induftrious, elderly negroe, who feemed 
well pleafed with his fituation, till he found 
that he was obliged to attend in the evening at 
prayers. He plainly faid, he did not love fuch 
'things, and that he, a negroe, had nothing to 
do with the prayers of white people ; and, in 
a fhort time, he left his place without aligning 
any other reafon. 

He has been obliged to fend three negroes off 
the ifland for theft and running away, that he 
might not be under the neceflity of punifhing 
with feverity. One of them, a fenfible accom- 
pltihed negrefs, was returned on his hands from 
the Danim ifland of St. Croix, for being fuch 

H a thief, 



$46 0N THE TREATMENT AND 

a thief, that nobody would, venture to take her 
into their family. Her own account was dif- 
ferent. She had been returned by him, to whom 
{he had been fent down, becaufe his favourite 
Sultana had become jealous of her attractions. 
To the accufations of theft, (he replied, that 
whatever me might formerly have done in her 
matter's family, (he knew better than to {leal 
in an ifland, where, for taking the teaft trifle, 
{he might, without noife, have been taken up, 
and executed immediately. She concluded, 
that her being fent back alive was a demon- 
{Iration of her not having been guilty of theft 
during her exile. He was obliged to affeft a 
fatisfa&ion in her defence. And, though by 
no means faultlefs, yet, either from partial re- 
formation, (for me was very capable of rea- 
fonin^) or an unwillingnefs to make another 
trip from her native country, ihe continued to 
behave more carefully and attentively in the fa- 
mily ; and at laft became fo induftrious as to 
he able to buyout her own, and a daughter's 
freedom, that {he had by a free-man. But he 
pofleffed not a fingle (lave on whom he could 
place dependence. And, had it not been for a 
white woman, whofe employment was to watch 
them, and whofe care he ufed, as others do 
corredicn, to keep them from diflionefty, he 
would have been at a lofs how to have carried 
«n houfe- keeping, without a degree of fe ve- 
rity 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 147 

rity abhorrent to his temper. Now, while 
they continued abandoned, irreclaimable, and 
infenfible of good treatment, they, could be very 
little difpofed to become Chrifcians. 

From this unfavourable view of his (laves,, 
it mutt not be concluded, that all are abfolutely 
worthlefs. You often meet with a flave at- 
tached to his mailer's interefl, and in mod re- 
fpe6ts truft- worthy. The author knows fome 
that would not lofe, on comparifon, with the 
mod circumfpecl: and faithful fervants in Britain. 
Slaves, indeed, are frequently attached to the 
perfons of their matters, and will rifk their lives 
readily for them, who yet make very free with 
their property. To fpeak generally, thofe 
matters are beft ferved, who feed and clothe 
their ttaves well, who are themfelves method- 
ical in their bufinefs, and never take notice of 
a fault iri them unlefs they mean to correct 
them fmartly for it. They are ill ferved, who 
are carelefs in their manner, indifferent how 
they are treated, averfe to or irregular in their 
method of chaflifement. 'And can any beha- 
viour different from this be expe8ed in crea- 
tures, whofe only motive of acYion is prefent 
feeling, who have no reputation to fupport, 
no lafting interefl: to care for ? 

The author is fenfible that his want of fuc- 
cefs was, in a certain degree, owing to a want 

Ha of 



I48 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

of ftri&nefs in the method of treating his flaves, 
adapted to their prefent debafed ftate. And 
this arofe equally from his want of refolution to 
perfevere in the difagreeable work, and from 
the fituation of his family, a private one not 
methodically and conftantly employed in parti- 
cular bufinefs. This circumftance rendered it 
incapable of being regulated with the accuracy 
of a plantation, where every hour has its em- 
ployment, and every piece of work its over- 
feer. Nor are any families among us fo well 
regulated as thofe connected with plantations, 
where method in correction and work makes 
feme amends for the want of principle in our 
manner of managing (laves. This, at firft 
view, may appear harm to the humane and 
pious ; but it is not, therefore, the lefs a true 
picture of human nature ; nor to thofe who 
are acquainted with the neceffity and effects of 
dlfcipline in our army and navy, will it r£fle& 
any particular difgrace on the natural bias or 
capacity of Africans. Human nature* where- 
ever found in the fame debafed ftate, would 
{hew itfelf in the fame wort.hlefs manner. Nor 
is it an argument for ftraitening, but for re- 
laxing, and at lafl entirely breaking, the chain 
•of flavery. 

Matter and flave are in every refpe£r. oppo- 
fite terms; the perfons to whom they are ap- 
plied, are natural enemies to each other. Sla- 
very, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES* I49 

very, in the manner and degree that it exifts in 
our colonies, could never have been intended 
for the focial ftate ; for it fuppofes tyranny on 
one fide, treachery and cunning on the other. 
Nor is it neceflary to difcufs which gives firft 
occafion to the other. But as flavery has over- 
run fo large a portion of fociefcy, the beft thing 
now to be done, is to prefs its neceflary ftriQ- 
nefs of difcipline into the fervice of freedom. In 
conformity to this reafoning, I affirm, that, If 
ever the reformation, of which we intend to 
treat, takes place, it mud begin in a plantation , 
where forms, that are the firft traces, the out- 
lines of rationality can be accurately afcertain- 
ed, and constantly enforced, by perfevering me- 
thod and difcipline. The mild and argumenta- 
tive Solon could regulate the fprightly, fenfible 
Athenians ; but the rough, unfeeling Ruffians 
required a Draco, in their Peter the Great, to 
wreit their brutality from them. In our cafe, 
the block mull, in fome meafure be chipt in 
the rude manner of this lad, before the light 
touches of the polifher can take effect.* 

The 

* In this, and every other place, where a ftrefs is laid on 
forms and difcipline, the reader is defined to diftinguifh be- 
tween ttrictnefs and cruelty. What is here fuggetted, is point- 
ed at the rnafter, more than the flave, and intends nothing; 
violent or abrupt. If the mafter be exa£t, and careful in his 
own duty, he will have little reafon to complain of the flave. 
Lxa&nefs of method prevents faults, and cuts off the necefllty 
of punifhment. It is the ignorant, the immethodical, the 

negligent, 



I5O ON THE TREATMENT AND 

The author cannot, indeed, fatisfy himfelf 
with what he has done, and continues to do, 
in fpite of disappointment: The thing when 
confidered by itielf, appears fo plaufible, and 
mild treatment makes in his imagination, fo 
amiable a part of it, that he is ready to hope, 
he has only miffed the right road, and may be 
more fuccefsful, if he could flrike out a new 
plan. Again, when it is confidered, how much 
the negroes are immerfed in fenfe, how their 
intellectual powers are wholly employed in the 
fervice of the body, and that, refpecting them, 
we have accefs to the fir ft only by methods 
that make impreffion on the other ; when he 
revolves the difficulty of managing, by argu- 
ment alone, a few flaves living and having their 
connections among hundreds of their equals, 
who are reftrained only by the whip, every 
hope of governing them, without a certain de- 
gree of difcipline, fubfides ; he is reduced to 
barely wifhing, and praying, that things were 
otherwise than he has found them, after his 
befl endeavours. 

The example and converfation of our equals, 
will ever have greater influence on our beha- 
viour, 

negligent, the gadding manager, or overfeer, who muft make 
Tip for all his own defects by llripes, and cruel ufage to thof« 
who are under him. In Chap. I. Se&. 7, we gave an inftance 
of great ltriclnefs of difcipline, without the ufual proportion of 
punifhment. Four times out of five the flave is punifhed for 
the overfeeds fault. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 5 1 

viour, than the precepts or example of thofe 
who are fuppofed to be under other laws, and 
to have their lives regulated by rules different 
from thofe that we think are appointed for lisi 
And it maybe prefumed, that the eafy treatment 
which made part of the author's fcheme, be- 
caufe mod agreeable to his difpofition, produced 
in minds not capable of diftinguilhing lenity 
from want of power, that careleffhefs to pleafe, 
and pronenefs to ill behaviour, which marked- 
his fmall number of (laves. 

This was the cafe of the author's (laves, and* 
the reafoning about them, as matters (lood in 
the year i 7 7 1 . Since the dreadful hurricane 
of 1772, which fwept away all their little (lock, 
there has been fome change for the better in 
their general condu£h They have taken a turn 
to induftry in their, own little concerns, which 
has given them a relifh for property (a turn 
that mould always be encouraged) and this has 
had an effecl: on their behaviour. In confc 
quence of this, the grea'.eft part of them have 
been admitted to baptifm, and were not the 
mailer too frequently obliged to interpofe irt 
matters of domeftic concern, to check that fpirit 
of careleffnefs and oppofition, which naturally 
rifes againft the views of authority, the ca- 
techol and teacher might have appeared to have 
made fome confiderable progrefs among them. 
Though the relaxed difcipline of the family 

made 



I $2 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

made them flill rather carelefs of pleafmg, yet 
they kept more at home, and behaved more 
honeftly ; and while fome feemed attached 
through principle, all had become more decent 
and orderly than in the former period. 

But though they were Haves only in name, 
except in the not being at liberty to change 
the place of their abode at pleafure, and though 
become more manageable than before, yet the 
reluctance that run through and affected the 
fervice of the ben 1 , with only one exception ; 
the biafs they had to the manners and com- 
pany of the flaves around them ; the neceflity 
of following them up in every ftep of duty im- 
pofed on them, and of keeping the fear of 
punifhment fufpended over them ; in Hiort, the 
apparent uneaflnefs on one fide, and the in- 
difpenfable miftrufl: on the other, plainly 
proved that they had no folid enjoyment of 
themfelves. And indeed it was the ftrong feel- 
ing he had of thefe difficulties in the manage- 
ment of his flaves, which principally contributed 
to make the fituation of their mailer mod irk- 
fome to him, and to render a (late of affluence 
and eafe, (in a fettlement otherwife as agreeable 
as imagination can well paint) fo difguftful, as 
induced him with eagernefs to embrace the 
firft opportunity that a generous friendfliip of- 
fered, of a retreat in, a country, in which, 

though lefs favourable to his health, and the 

views 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 53 

views of his family, he could indulge the feel- 
ings of benevolence without regret. 

SECT. IV. 

Inefficacy of the Author's Public Attempts 
, to injlrutt Slaves. 

ON his firft fettlement as a minifter in the 
Weft-Indies, he made alfo fome public attempts 
to inftru& flaves. He began to draw up fome 
eafy, plain difcourfes for their inftru&ion. He 
invited them to attend on Sundays, at particular 
hours. He appointed hours at home, to in- 
ftrucl: fuch fenfible flaves as would of them- 
felves attend. He repeatedly exhorted their 
matters to encourage fuch in their attend- 
ance. He recommended the French cuftom, 
of beginning and ending work by prayer. But 
inconceivable is the liftleflhefs with which he 
was heard, and bitter was the cenfure heaped 
on him in return. It was quickly fuggefted,, 
and generally believed, that he wanted to in- 
terrupt the work of flaves, to give them time, 
forfooth, to fay their prayers ; that he aimed at 
the making of them Chriftians, to render them 
incapable of being good flaves. In one word ? 
he flood, in opinion, a rebel convict againft the 
intereft and majefty of planterfliip. And as 
the Jews fay, that in every punifhment, with 
which they have been proved, flnce the bondage 
of Egypt, there has been an ounce of the 
golden calf of Horeb ; fo may he fay, that in 
H 5 every 



I 54 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

every inftance of prejudice (and they have not 
been a few) with which, till within a year or 
two of his departure from the country, he has 
been exercifed, there has been an ounce of 
his fruitlefs attempts to improve the minds of 
flaves*. 

No matter would ufe any influence with his 
(laves, to make them attend at the appointed 
hours. Even fome, who approved of the plan, 
or at lead durft not, for fhame, object to it, 
and who would have been offended with the 
man that mould have infinuated their difregard 
to religion, did not think themfelves obliged to 
co-operate, or encourage their flaves to attend 
on inftru&ion. Nor did this backwardnefs pro- 
ceed from a dread of the ill confequences of 
improvement, but from an indolence in fuch 
matters, that cannot be explained to one un- 
acquainted with the country. 

fn the bidding prayer, he had inferted a pe- 
tition for the converfion of flaves. It was 
deemed fo difagreeable a memento, that feveral 
white people, on account of it, left off attending 
divine fervice. He was obliged to omit the 
prayer entirely, to try and bring them back. In 
fhort, neither were the flaves, at that time, de- 
(irous of being taught, nor were their matters 
inclined to encourage them. But as this refers 
to a period about eighteen years ago, which, 
in change of inhabitants, is there equal to a ge- 
neration, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I55 

neration, there is ground to hope that the an- 
c-ient prejudices againft the converfion of the 
negroes may, fince that aera, in fome iflands and 
in fome plantations, be a good deal abated. 

SECT. V. 

The Manner fuggefted> in which private At- 
tempts on large Plantations, to improve 
Slaves, may probably fucceed. 

LITTLE, we fee, can be faid of the 
endeavours of individuals, within the author's 
knowledge, to improve their flaves. Some 
years ago he fcarce knew a man on the fpot, 
who had ferioufly attended to their inftru&ion, 
or who believed that intereft, duty, or reputa» 
tion, obliged him to attempt it. Nay, though 
the more moderate and fenfible people allow 
that the inftrucYion of flaves, if their prefent 
condition permitted it, and it could be brought 
about, would be a good thing, yet it is not to 
be concealed, that fome have flrong obje&ions 
againft every meafure that has their benefit in 
view, or that confiders them in any other light 
than inflruments of labour. An owner will, 
indeed, fometimes have a favourite flave bap- 
tized ; but I am riot fenfible of any care hav- 
ing been taken, either before or after, with 
one in ten, who are indulged with the rite, 
to fee that they be intruded. 

I. was 



I56 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

I was once requefted to baptize a negrcfs? 
remarkable for her fa'uhfulnefs and attachment 
to her owner's interefi:. On examination, I 
found her grofsly ignorant, and unufually inat- 
tentive. In the eafieft manner in my power 
I attempted to inftrucl her, and as (he lived in 
the neighbourhood, bid her come frequently to 
me. I fpoke alfo to her owners, mentioned her 
ignorance, and expreffed my readinefs to in- 
flrucl: her. She never attended, was carried 
into another parifh, and there baptized, I had 
almofl faid, without ceremony. Baptifm is 
fuppofed to free a (lave from the power of the, 
negroe conjurer, . and its being permitted, is 
confidered, in the matter, as the conferring of 
a favour that is complete, when the rite is 
performed. The lot of flaves, refpecting reli- 
gion, is moft favourable, when they happen; 
to be prefented young to a growing up daugh- 
ter of the family, or to be the property of 
induflrious people, juft above the lowed rank. 
In thefe cafes, care is fometimes taken to fit 
them for baptifm, and fome turn out tolerably 
fober, and fenfible ; but their proportion to the 
whole can hardly be taken into account. 

But if flaves in their prefent jiate be capable 
of any conjiderable improvement, it will proba- 
bly be on large plantations, where they corrw 
pofe communities of themfelves, and where the 
difcipline neceflary for humanizing them cart 
be carried on with the greatefl ftri&nefs and 

effe£t 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 57 

effect. In this point of view is the following 
plan propofed. 

In the firft place, a chaplain mud be ap- 
pointed ; and a man of confiderable aifiduity 
would find full employment among the ufual 
numbers, that extenfive plantations contain of 
fuch ignorant creatures. If a fober difcreet man 
in orders could be found, who underftood phy- 
fic enough to enable him to take charge of their 
fick, greater encouragement could be given, 
and one office would promote the other. For 
both, a fingle man mould be allowed ^250 & er ~ 
ling per annum, the ufe of an horfe and a boy, 
and board with the manager. No man, ac- 
quainted with the country, will confider this 
appointment as exceffive, for a man of a liberal 
education. 

The chaplain mould teach the (laves fome 
fhort prayers, to be repeated by them in pri- 
vate, when they rife in the morning, and when 
they go to fleep. He mould accuftom them to 
repeat fome fhort inflru&ive form refpe&ing 
their focial duties, when they begin and leave 
off their field work. The black overfeers, as 
in the French colonies, may foon be taught to 
take the lead in their field devotions. 

A chapel mould be built for the performancs 
of divine fervice on Sunday, for prayers on the 
days when their allowance of provifions is dis- 
tributed;, 



I58 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

tributed, for celebrating the offices of matri- 
mony and baptifm, and any other occafion of 
meeting together. A burying ground mould be 
fet apart for the decent interment of the dead, 
and it mould be allotted out according to their 
families. It would have an excellent effect on 
them, if only tradable, weli-difpofed perfons 
were buried with their families, and every 
worthlefs fellow buried in a place apart. 

The chapel mould be built near the hofpi- 
tal, th3t all, who are under cure, may, if able, 
attend fervice. The chaplain mould be inftant 
in inftrucYtng thofe in the hofpital, that his 
teaching may interefere the lefs with their ordi- 
nary work in health. And as a confiderable pro- 
portion, on fome account or other, will be 
received into the hofpital within the year, 
fomething valuable may be effected by embrac- 
ing that opportunity. By applying particularly 
to bring forward the more fenfible and teach- 
able flaves, he may enable them in time to 
ailift him in the work, and by little rewards, 
which he may be allowed to beflow, he may 
fecure their help ; but efpecially, he may give 
the parents affe£Uon a turn to the inftrucVion 
pf their children. The great difficulty will 
be, to let down the language of religion to 
their prefent capacity : a convincing proof with 
me, that however flavery may be permitted, 
yet originally Providence never defigned any 
rational, or accountable creature for fuch a 
depreffed brutilh flate, as that of African flaves 

in 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 159 

in the Britifh colonies. But if a few were 
once .well-grounded in religious knowledge, 
they could talk more familiarily and feelingly 
to their fellows, than the minider ; and his 
chief bufinefs, except general indruction, would 
then be to fuperintend their conduct, arid ex- 
cite them to the work. The young children 
generally fhew themfelves four or five times 
a day in a gang, with fmall parcels of grafs, 
picked for the cattle. They may be made to 
repeat fome fhort genera! precept, on deliver- 
ing in their bundles, the moil forward boy 
taking the lead. 

Sundays are ufually fpent by indubious 
flaves, in their own provifion grounds. To 
give them time for improvement and devotion 
on that day, they mud be allowed at lead: 
Saturday afternoon for their own work; taking 
care to keep them honedly employed, that 
they may not go robbing, or dealing, or get 
into drunken brawls. Few, at firft, could bear 
fuch indulgence, without drift looking after. 

As the manager will object to a regula- 
tion that curtails the working hours of his 
people, to induce him to allow the flaves this 
time, he mud be permitted to make up for the 
labour reduced in giving up Saturday afternoon 
to themfelves, by adding gradually to the gang, 
on a large plantation, about thirty young ne- 
groes. If the owner (hould, from delicacy, 

object 



l60 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

obje& to the buying of flaves, perhaps the 
confideration of its producing a benefit to the 
whole, may prevail on him. This would be 
an expence at firft, but, by increafing the 
vigour and induflry of the flaves, would in 
time improve his property greatly beyond their 
firft coft. And as the flaves might be made 
to perform their own work, under the direc- 
tion of the overfeers, their patches of ground 
would be better cultivated, and give greater 
increafe, than when each is left to work as he 
pleafeth. This is on the fuppofition, that fuch 
plantations, are fully flocked for the prefent 
views of the proprietors. 

The gang fhould be marfTialled by families, 
each divifion being put under the care of the 
principal perfon in it, who fhould be anfwer- 
able for their conduct. At ftated times they 
fhould pafs in review, be examined in refpecl; 
of health, give an account of their clothes, 
and the feveral articles of their little property. 
Then fhould follow an inquiry into their reli- 
gious progrefs, and a distribution of rewards 
among the mod diligent, either in getting 
themfelves, or their children and fellows for- 
ward. Much would depend on the temper and 
difcretion of the minifter ; much on the hearty 
concurrence of the manager. 

A large public thatched room fhould be 

built, in which to hold their feafls and merry* 

makings ; 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. l6l 

makings ; and the man of the greateft influence 
and fobriety among them, mould be chofen by 
themfelves, and approved of by the manager, 
to be matter of the revels, and keep them harm- 
lefs and within bounds. Some folemn a<£l of 
prayer, or thankfgiving, mould begin, and end 
every affembly. • 

No offence, except infolence and difobedi- 
ence, mould be punifhed by the manager, till 
it has been fubmitted to the decifion of a jury, 
chofen from among themfelves. This would 
accuftom them to mark the difference between 
right and wrong, and at lead make confjderate 
and prudent flaves fhun faults, which they had 
condemned in their neighbour's practice. All 
punilhments mould be inflicted with folemnity, 
in prefence of the gang, accompanied with 
fome fhort explanation of the crime, and an 
exhortation from the chaplain, to ahftain from 
it. Infolence and difobedience are left to be 
punifhed at the discretion of the manager, till 
the Haves become capable of moral government, 
becaufe he would not be able to fupport his 
authority, if obliged to fubmit the difcuffion of 
faults committed againft himfelf, to the deci- 
fion of other perfons. 

It is difficult to determine what reformation 
this example, and the good effects produced by 
this extraordinary care, might produce in a 
neighbourhood. But judging from analogy, we 

mud 



l62 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

mud not expect the fruits to be of a very quick 
growth, or very fpreading nature. Thus, for 
inftance, we know that intereft pleads equally 
with humanity, for the kind treatment of {laves. 
Every difcreet man feelingly acknowledges it ; yet 
how often, in practice, do thefe principles feem 
to be at variapce/in fpite of the mod convincing 
example which their union, in men of prudence 
and fentiment, can produce? How frequently 
may intereft, or rather her accurfed phantom, 
ielfifhnefs, be feen dragging a human creature 
in a chain, naked, flarved, and raw with (tripes, 
and demanding, with threats, that tale of la- 
bour, which cruelty has rendered the wretch 
incapable of performing ? 

Now if example be fo little of a diffufive 
nature, in a cafe fuch as this, in which all con- 
fider themfelves as concerned, what may we 
expect to happen in religion, which is not 
deemed the concern of any particular perfon ? 
The liftleflhefs in fuch matters is too univerfal ; 
the defire of prefent gain too general, for any 
confiderable proportion of the inhabitants to 
fall fuddenly and eagerly into a fcheme, that 
promlfes fo little immediate profit, and feems 
to be fo very foreign to their bufmefs, or duty, 
and fo far above the capacity of the objects of 
this improvement. * Y e t 

* Among the ancients, not only the fine art?, but fciences 
and philofophy, in particular inftances, were cultivated by 
flaves. Thcie were therefore immediate objects of religion 

N and 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 6*3 

Yet on no account is there reafon to defpair. 
Good fenfe would induce the imitation of Tome ; 
religion, awakened by conscience, would exert 
her influence with others ; fhame would oblige 
many, vanity more; the natural progrefs of 
knowledge and reafon in the human mind, 
though flow to anfwer the wifhes of fentiment, 
would go on gradually to accomplifh the impor- 
tant work. Even among the fenfible flaves, 
emulation would have great effects. On the 
whole, the caufe of humanity and religion 
would be ferved. But whatever might be the 
iflue with others, were fuch flaves as thefe of 
whom we treat, advanced in focial life gradually, 
as they {hewed themfelves capable of improve- 
ment, nothing could hinder their mafters from 
reaping the happieft fruits from their humani ty, 
piety, and good fenfe. They would be more 

healthy, 

and morality. But their fituatton differed greatly from that 
of our African flaves. Thefe are favages ravifhed from their 
huts, and their country, to till, like brutes, a ftrange foil, in 
a ftrange climate, among people of a ftrange fpeech, without 
rights, without privileges, without enjoyments. The ancient 
flaves were often perfons of condition, deprived of their free- 
dom by the accidents of war ; or fuch as had been liberally 
brought up in their matter's family, and looked forward to 
freedom in his affection or gratitude. Thefe once accultomed 
to reflect, purfued their ftudies, and fearched in philofophy, 
or religion, for fupport under the miferies of their condition. 
In their cafe, no infolent p; ide in the mafter, of fuppofing him- 
fclf of an higher race, blocked up the path to their advance- 
ment. It is pride with us forms an infeparable bar to every 
generous wifh. Emulation is frozen ; expectation is dead • 
the heavenly fpark lies lir.oihered in anguiih and neglect, 
while all around is daikntfs and doubt* 



164 N THE TREATMENT AND 

healthy, more vigorous, more diligent, more ho- 
ned ; they would rife in the fcale of being, poiTefs 
more of the conveniences of life, enjoy more hap- 
pinefs, and look forward with more confidence 
into futurity. I have mentioned the neceffity of 
making focial privileges, to accompany attempts 
at mental improvement, becaufe I am perfuaded, 
that little of confequence can be gained in the 
lafl:, without beftowing fomethingproportionably 
confiderable on the other. But we fhall leave 
the difcuflion of this point, to make a part of 
our particular plan of improvement. * 

In 

* That particular points may be gained among (laves, in 
their prefent ftate, though we have few examples of general 
improvement, may be concluded from the following narration. 

On a plantation in a tobacco colony, lived fome years ago 
a manager, a German, a reduced army officer. He formed 
the (laves into a regiment, dividing them into commands, and 
appointing officers over them. Their motions were perform- 
ed, and their work was regulated by beat of drum. He 
planted armed centinels as in a garrifbn. Offences were tried 
as in a court martial, and none were punifhed till their equals 
had adjudged them to be guilty. A corporal had deferted and 
carried off his arms. The officer received intelligence of him, 
and as it was the firft inrtance of defertion, and the offender 
had alfo killed one of his companions, it was neceffary to 
make a (Inking example of it. The officer went at the head 
of an armed party, and furrounded the houfe where the cor- 
poral lay hid. It was night, and happened to be moon-light. 
The noife foon brought the deferter out, armed with his muflcet. 
The officer, while advancing on him with his mulket prefent- 
ed, bid him furrender, and on no account to prefent his piece, 
for on the fmalleft attempt he would fhoot him; on the other 
hand, he allured him, on his honour, that he ffiould have a fair 
trial. The corporal hoped to command more favourable terms 
ia a poftu-re of defence, but in attempting to level his piece, 

the 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 65 

In general we affirm, thatuhe matter, or legif- 
lature, that aims at improvement, or defires to 
promote good order, rauft keep their people 
ftriftly to forms, and make the individuals judges 
of each other's behaviour. Breaches of mora- 
lity may, under proper general fan£tions, be 
left to the unbiafled opinions of the people. 
To direct induflry, and indifferent habits, to a 
plan of general utility and obedience, is the 
object of police. To carry form and method 
into private life, is the true fecret to impart 
firmnefs, both to law and empire. 

It was not the laws of Lycurgus, which might 
not be in contemplation once in a man's life> 
but it\vas his cuftoms, which met the citizen at 
every meal, that gave {lability to Sparta. The 
decalogue, and the other principles of morality, 
fill a fmall fpace in the laws of Mofes, and re- 
fpe£t every other nation equally with the Jews ; 
but ablutions, feftivals, and facrifices returned 
on his people, at every hour ; and they were 
the inftitutes which have principally fecured 
obedience to that conftitution through a longer 
period of time, than any other fyftem has been 

able 

the officer (hot him dead. He was tried in the provincial courts 
for killing the man, and was acquitted. But to (hew his peo- 
ple, that he did not make one law for them, and another for 
himfelf, he had the caufe formally difcufled in his own plan- 
tation court, and was unanimoufly abfolved. The effects that 
would naturally be produced by fuch a difcipline, enforced Wy 
fuch an example, muft, in things to which it is extended, be 
great and lafting. 



l66 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

able to effect Man is compofed of matter and 
intellect ; and he who would be mafter of the 
laft, moft not neglect the culture of the other. 
Our Englilh laws pafs over the private conduct of 
the citizens to attend to nuifances, and impofe 
taxes. Hence that abfurdity of conduct, that 
inconfiftency, that extravagance of behaviour, 
that mifapplication of time, and wealth, which 
prevail among us, above all others^ in private 
life. And yet how can the public carry on that 
joint purpofe, which is the end of fociety, or how 
can it flourifh as a community, when individuals 
are left, each man to follow his own caprice ? * 

In 

* To give one inftance out of thoufands of this neglect. 
The fate of the nation is fuppofed to be bound up with trade, 
yet is every man permitted to finifti his own manufactures in 
his own way, by which the national character and intereft fuf- 
fer daily among foreigners. This might be prevented, by 
permitting nothing to be exported, till it has endured the fcru- 
tiny of proper judges, and had its quality fbmpt on it by au- 
thority. This negligence, ere this, would have been as fatal 
in other branches, as it has already been in the Turkey trade, 
but for that emulation which naturally arifes among competi- 
tors in the fame branches. 

This fyftem of directing by authority the private conduct of 
citizens, was carried a faulty length by the Jefuits in. Paraguay. 
There the individual was confidered as a mere inftrument of 
public order, and public induftry, without having any thing 
permitted to his own feelings, or inclination. And our flaves 
fuffer in proportion, as they are under a matter, who 16 more 
or lefs teafing and disturbing them in their own hours, and 
little concerns. But furely, it would not be difficult to oblige, 
by the regulations of police, a man to be happy in himfelf, 
and to add happinefo to thofe around him, by fixing on the 
proper medium in managing him, between careleflnefs and 
instruction. The difference is exceeding great' in our flaves, 

when 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 67 

In mort, we have too few circumftances, that 
bring us together, r oblige us to confider our- 
felves as members of the fame community. 
The focial nature of our religion has indeed 
hitherto made up for many of the other defects, 
and prevented us from feeling their ill confe- 
quence. But in proportion as the notions of 
Epicurus become fafhionable among us, this tie 
drops off alfo, and, in all probability, unlefs we 
except our taxes, we (hall foon have nothing in 
common as a people, but the fea that furrounds 
our ifle. A deflre of pointing out the way of 
giving fuccefs to the particular attempt here 
recommended, amidft the difficulties that fur- 
round it, has infenfibly led to this digreiTion. 

when employed for their mailers and for themfelves, I'n the 
firft cafe they drawl their taflc out, and weep under the bur- 
den, liftlcfs, and carelefs of fucccfs. See them on a Sunday 
morning, that only day of liberty, going to maiket with their 
own provifions, they walk ftrong, their faces cheerful, their 
bodies ere£r, their peifons neat, and the whole man elevated 
and improved. Now the police that we recommend above, 
makes the man contribute to the general profperity, while he 
imagines himfelf wholly taken up in purfuing his own intereft, 
and exerting himfelf in his own bufinefs, 



CHAP, 



l63 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

CHAP. IV. 

Natural Capacity of Slaves vindicated. 






JL O thofe who, with Mofes, believe that all 
men had one common parent, though for wife 
ends different families have fince had diftin- 
gnifhing marks fixed on them, the fubject of this 
chapter would be an unneceffary digreflion. But 
we are fo fond of an hypothefis, which indulges 
pride, and faves the trouble of enquiry, that the 
contrary, though leading to nothing generous, 
though narrow, felfifli, and illiberal, has found 
powerful advocates, who draw after them crowds 
of admirers. Therefore, before we proceed to 
claim the rights of fociety, and of a common 
religion for Africans, we muft firft put them in 
pofleflion of that humanity, which is pertinaci- 
oufly difputed with them. With this view I 
mail confider the objections made to their 
capacity, from hypothefis, from figure, from 
anatomy, from obfervation, and prove their na- 
tural powers, from reafon and experience. 

SECT. I. 

Objetlions to African Capacity, drawn from 
Philofophy, confidered. 

HUME, in his Effays, broacheth an opinion 
concerning negroes, which, if true, would render 

whatever 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 1 69 

whatever could be advanced in their favour, 
of no account. But I truft his affertion, which 
certainly was made without any competent 
knowledge of the fubject:, will appear to have 
no foundation, either in reafon or nature. In 
his Effay on National Characters he fays, "That 
" mankind is compofed of three or four different 
" races ; and that there never was a polifhed 
" fociety, but of the white race, to which all 
" others are naturally inferior." In particular, 
Jhe gives it as his formed opinion, " that there 
" never arofe a man of genius among negroes." 

Had he lived in the days of Auguftus, or even 
but a thoufand years ago, his northern pride, 
perhaps, would have been lefs afpiring, and fa- 
tisfied to have been admitted even on a footing 
of equality with the fable Africans. Virgil 
makes Dido infinuate to /Eneas, the reafon he 
had to expect humane treatment among her peo- 
ple, not becaufe they were polifhed Phoenicians, 
but becaufe they dwelt more immedi ately than 
other powers under the powerful influence of the 
fun. And in the time of Charlemagne, a fo- 
reign divine, writing to the Britons to encourage 
them, tells them, as a thing remarkable, that 
though their country lay far " north, yet it 
u had produced feveral great men." Suppof- 
ing thefe, and Hume's obfervations, (if indeed 
thefe deferve the name) to have been drawn 
equally from fact, the conclufion is, that arts, 
fciences, and the polifhed life accompanying 
I them, 



1)0 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

them, are flowly progreifive through nations and 
climates, rather than that the natives of any- 
particular country are born incapable of them 
in their turn, as if intended to acl: an inferior part 
in the moral world. 

Again, in his Natural hiitory of Religion, he 
affirms, that if a traveller found a people void 
of religion, he would find them removed but 
few degrees from brutes, f He fays, " Tn the 
" progrefs of human thought, the ignorant mul- 
** titude muft firft entertain fome grovelling 
" familiar notion of fuperior powers, before 
" they ftretch their conceptions to that perfect 
" Being, who beflowed order on the frame of 
" nature g r tf* to believe," faith he, " invifible, 

" intelligent 

f Yet, why, if fuch be the man's genuine fentiments, did 
he drive, in all his writings, to difgrace religion, and deftroy 
every moral fentiment connected with it among his country- 
men ? I will not fay what name fuch cool malevolence de- 
ferves ; but, on the other hand, let not his friends pretend 
to exalt the author of fuch peftilential tenets above every 
human character. 

X This is with a view to eftablifh his favourite pofition, that 
polytheifm was the firft religion : becaufe, he there fays, 
*< Man could not poflibly have degenerated from pure theifm 
" to polytheifm ; and yet, we know, that polytheifm has 
" prevailed." But, forgetting this impoflibility of degene- 
racy, in order to fhew the little confequence of religion in 
general, and, as he humanely and refpe&fully obferves, to fet 
the religious fe&s a wrangling, while he and a few more 
choice fpirits are making their elcape into the calm regions of 
philofophy •, he. afterwards tells us, that man changes continu- 
ally 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 171 

" intelligent power, is a ftamp fet by the divine 
" Workman on human nature. Nothing dig- 
H nifies man more than to be felected from all 
<e the other parts of the creation to bear this 
" image of the univerfal Creator." Here, 
then, we have religion for a badge of excellence 
or reafon, and the want of it a inark of infe- 
riority or brutality. Speaking of the white or 
fuperior race, he goes on to affirm, that the 
bulk of mankind is incapable of being directed by 
the tenets of pure theifm ; that all popular reli- 
gions, in the conception of their more vulgar 
votaries, are therefore, a fpecies of demoniafm ; 
and that religious principles as they have pre- 
vailed in the world, are only Tick mens dreams. 

Now, if we aflume, as we juftly may, that 
a perfection to be found very felJom in a fupe- 
rior race, cannot be expected in any inftance in 
an inferior race ; according to him, we (hall 
in vain look among negroes for what is rare in 
the white race. Here and there we fee a man 
fix feet inftature; but were there fuch a nation 
as Fabulifts defcribe pigmies to be, would a 

traveller 

ally from polytheifm to theifm, and from theifm to poly- 
theifm ; and, in his opinion, it is a matter of no confequence* 
But confiflency in the apoftle of infidelity is as little neceffary, 
as in the lives of thofe for whom the doctrine is calculated. 
There, is, indeed, fomething fo degrading in ail Hume's phi- 
lofophy, as can recommend it only to a <^rrupt heart, and 
a vitiated underftanding, which fee nothing to wifh for, or ex- 
cite their emulation, out of the circle of animal indigencies. 

12 



172 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

traveller expect to find a pigmy fix feet tail ? In 
fuppofing a diftin&ion, we deny to the inferior 
every mark, of excellency that diftinguifhes one 
indvidual of the fuperior race from his fellows. 
If, then, his fuppofition be juft, it follows that 
negroes are not intended for religion. For, what- 
ever be his private fentiments of revealed re- 
ligion, he mufl allow it to be a fpecies of general 
religion ; and he admits the reception of religion 
to be a perfection in the fuperior race, an ad- 
vancement of their nature, that few in com- 
parison of the whole do really attain unto. He 
alfo allows that Chriflianity contains many of 
the fublime truths of theifm, which, according 
to his opinion, no fociety, even of white men, 
ever yet lived up to. It would then be abfurd 
to expert that negroes, an inferior race, mould 
be capable of an excellence, even in that lefs 
degree, fuppofed to be contained in Chriflianity, 
to which a great proportion of the fuperior race, 
I will not fay cannot, but do not, attain. 

But there is fomething in a well-difpofed mind, 
that makes the man revolt againfl this cruel 
opinion : and, I trull, nature flatly contradicts 
theafiertion. As far as I can judge, there is 
no difference between the intellects of whites and 
blacks, but fuch as circumflances and education 
naturally produce. 

It is true, there are marks, that appear now to 
be eftablifhed, as if fet by the hand of nature to 

diflinguifh 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 7J 

diftinguifti them from the whites : their nofes 
are flat, their chins prominent, their hair woolly, - 
their fkin black. They who, from Mofes be- 
lieve (and, fince, on any fcherne we mull: come 
to a particular time when the diftinction took 
place, it is, to fay no more, juM as fenfibie, as 
any other pofition) that the Deity parcelled out- 
the earth into families and languages, may con- 
clude, that thefe diftincYions gradually took 
place at a period in which the foils of men 
were conducted by the invifible hand of Provi- 
dence each to his allotted habitation. And, let 
it be remarked, that thecharacteriftics of negroes 
fhew themfelves chiefly about the face, where 
nature has fixed both the national attributes and 
the discriminating features of individuals, as if 
intended to diftinguifti them from other families, 
and bind them in the focial tie with their bre- 
thren. But their tongues are as musical, f their 
hands as elegant and apt, their limbs as neatly 
turned, and their bodies as well formed for 
ftrength and activity as thofe of the white race. 

After firft writing the above, I was for a4hort 

time 

f It is furpiizing, that during the continued rage for 
Italian fingers, it has never entered among the whims of the 
age, to try if mufic might not be imported from the Banks of 
the Niger. It is certain the natural tafte of the Africans for 
"mufic is confiderable ; and inftru&ion and alfiduity might 
change mungo's filly ftage gibberiih into the foft thrills and 
quavers of Italian eunuchs. By the way, how Would it have 
hurt the pdde of an overweening Hume among the Roman?, 
to have been told, that the time would come when his fons 
fhould be emafculated to fit them for entertaining on a ftage 
the barbaraus Britons with effeminate mufic? 



1 74 0N THE TREATMENT AND 

time made happy, by finding that Lord Kaims, 
in his firft volume of Sketches, had indulged the 
fuppofition, that at the difperfion, on the con- 
fufion of languages, when the earth was divided 
among Noah's pofterity, national attributes firft 
took place in the feveral families, in the feveral 
climates. But this fatisfa£tion continued only till 
I entered on the perufal of the fecond volume : 
where it is affirmed, that the inhabitants of 
America have an origin diftincl: from the natives 
of the eaftern hemifphere. We mall, therefore, 
confider thefe opinions together. * 

That 

* In a late well known Hiftory of America there is room to 
imagine, that the author entertains the fame opinion with 
Lord Kaims. He guards it, indeed, by faying, that we fhould 
be apt to believe the Americans had a different origin, if the 
fcriptures did not allure us that mankind fprung from one 
ftock. The do£lor did not reflect that many of his readers 
had not the fame opinion of the fcriptures. as he entertained ; 
and that his conjecture, as an hiftorian, would weigh more 
with them, than his faith as a Chriftian. He, probably, threw 
it out as a fpeculative opinion, without attending to the in- 
human confequences deduced from it, and certainly he 
grounds it on very controvertible data. When he acknow* 
ledged the apparent difference, he fhould have been aware of 
the fcepticifm of the age, and guarded againft the ccnclufions 
that would eagerly be drawn from it. 

Indeed, the friends of virtue have feldom been fufficiently 
careful in this refpedt. Before any fpeculative opinion be 
given to the world, a man fhould turn it in his mind every 
poffible way, to confider to what ufes it may be wrefled by 
infidelity, when brought out under the fanclion of his name. 
A profeffed enemy of virtue mud be placed in particular cir- 
ctfmftances to be able to do much harm in the world by his 
writings ; but every reverie of an eminent good man is eagerly 

feiied 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 75 

That without the information afforded by 
facred hiftory, and without an attention to that 
extenfive plan of divine ceconomy which it 
opens to us, we mould, at firft fight, imagine 
the feveral families inhabiting the earth to have 
had diftin£t progenitors, I readily acknowledge. 
But, fmce a hiftory conilftent in itfelf, uncon- 
tradicted by authority, agreeing in analogy with 
the paft and prefent flate of things, and fup- 
ported by every poflible collateral evidence of 
hiftory, tradition, national manners, and cuf- 
toms, aflures us that men had one common an* 
ceftor, that at a period, when men had become 
numerous, profligate, and daring, their Creator, 
to punifti their rebellion, and, (conformably to 
that divine benevolence which conftantly brings 
good out of evil) to make it inftrumental in ad- 
vancing fociety, and the more equal and fpeedy 
cultivation of the earth, divided them into fa- 
milies and languages, giving to each did in 61: 
features, and a feparate fpeech : this, I fay, 
being the cafe, we are not left at liberty to* pur- 
fue every wild conjecture. Both methods, at 

firft, 

feized on, if it can be turned to promote the purpofes of pro- 
fligacy. Would Locke, even in the eagernefs of difputation, 
have hazarded that wild conjecture, that poflibly matter might 
think, could he have forefeen that it would have cftabliihed 
him as a main pillar of materialifm, and made him anfwerable 
for all its dreary confequences. In arguing, as in wreitling, 
we are not fo careful to preferve ourfelves from falling, as 
anxious to throw our adverfary. 



176 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

firft, were^ equally eafy to fupreme power ; 
both, at fi'rft, flood equally in need of an extras 
ordinary volition or exertion of Omnipotence. 
But we can obferve a peculiar propriety in 
ckoofing the latter. By giving man one fimple 
origin, by beftowing on him a common nature, 
a foundation was laid for the ultimate re-union 
of mankind, as well now in improved focial life 
as in futurity ; a re- union intended to take place 
in time under the then-promifed connecting 
head of the creation, and particularly rendered 
practicable in a unity of laws, government, and 
worfhip, by this univerfal equality eftabliihed 
among the various families ; which keeps the 
way open for the equal and gradual improve- 
ment cf their common nature. This is the 
fyfl-em taught by revelation : it is a plan .that 
reafon readily acknowledges, and benevolence 
chearfully adopts ; it gives a grand, a flattering, 
and the only confident view of mankind, as 
having for its author the God of univerfal na- 
ture He, who once has entertained it, muft 
defpife the conjectures of philofophy, and the 
paradoxes of infidelity. And furely it ihould 
gain for that revelation which difcovers it a fa- 
vourable, even an interefled, hearing, equally 
from the politician and the philanthropic, as 
encouraging the nobleft and warmefl wifhes that 
refpect fociety or man, \ 

All 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVE'S. 177 

All here is confident and analogical. In 
certain attributes and qualities, in the mental 
powers, all mankind agree, The feveral fami- 
lies or fuppofed races have various marks, con- 
necting them with each other, and diftinguinV 
ing them from the reft. The nations into 
which each each race is divided, with the com- 
mon attributes of the race, have lefs apparent, 
yet ftill fufficienfc marks to diftinguifh them 
from others, and connect them together. Ge- 
nerally fpeaking, even inhabitants of provinces 
have a common run of manners, language, or 
features, perhaps of all taken together, to bind 
them in fome degree of union, and alfo dif- 
tinguim them. After thefe, domeftic likenefles 
take place, that have dill more intimate com- 
mon marks, yet allow of a fufficient variety to* 
know a man from his brother. 

Now, in the eye of true philofophy, the dif- 
tinguithing attributes of the individual, an hair 
more or lefs of this or that colour, a particular 
feature predominant, have as certain a diftincl: 
caufe in nature, as what makes the difference 
between the faireft European and mod jetty 
African. If, therefore, we can refolve the dif- 
criminating attributes of individuals into the 
neceffary final caufe of focial intercourfe, why 
heiltate we in afcribing to the fame caufe the 
more obvious diflin&ions of the greater fami- 
lies ? 



I78 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

lies ? Or, why feek for caufes lefs confident, 
apparently lefs worthy of the Deity, to pamper 
vanity and pride, when this is full and fufficient 
to explain the fact ? 

For the period when this diftin&ion took 
place, and the plan of reformation to which it 
looked, we are referred by Mofes to the confu- 
fion of Babel, " When the Moft High divided 
" to the nations their inheritance ; when he 
iC feparated the ions of Adam ; when he fet 
* e the bounds of the people according to the 
" number of the children of Ifrael :" a family, 
that, in the courfe of Providence, was feparated, 
and, when the fulnefs of time came, was em- 
ployed, to inftruct. the world in that common 
relation to their Creator and to each other, 
which had been entangled in error, disfigured 
by fable, and perverted by fiction : for this 
office the Jews were well calculated ; their turn 
for commerce made them wander and mix with, 
while their cuftoms kept them di(tin£t from, 
other nations. They were actuated with zeal 
for the unity of the Deity, and fhewed a won- 
derful patience under perfecution.* 

SECT. 

"* It is remarkable of Philo, the Jew Platonift, that though 
he gives no hint of his knowledge of Chriftianity, which alone 
explains ind vindicates the Jewifh law, and points out its de- 
f,g n . yet, with Chriftians and Platonifts, he fuppofeth the 
world to be the immediate work, and under the particular 

government 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I 79 



SECT. If. 

Objections to African Capacity ', drawn from 
Form, confidered. 

THE marks that diftinguim the African, and 
give room to the tyrannic European (for I be- 
lieve the Afiatic mafter is content with the pre- 
eminence that power imparts) to claim the 

higheft 

government of the Deminrgos, or word, and he affirms the 
reparation of the Jews to have had the gradual improvement 
of mankind in view. 

•In fpite of the obligations that the world in general owes to 
the Jews, refpscting theology and morality, yet fo faftuonable 
is it for every author, in imitation of Voltaire, to go out of his 
way to abuie them, that he who exprelTes a regard for them 
expofes himfelf to contempt. But thofe who deny them the 
privileges of a particular difpenfatioi;, in fo doing exalt them 
above all nations of antiquity. For they alone had penetra- 
tion to find out, and piety to worfhip, the universal Creator, 
The Roman twelve tables were a collection from ail the Greek 
inftitutes ; how contemptible are they compared with the de- 
calogue ! That anciently the Jews were not the dtfpifed 
people which modern infidelity would fain repiefent them, 
appears clearly from the alliances formed by them, and the 
immunities and privileges granted them under the Perfians, 
Grecians, and Romans. The farcafm of Auguftus on them, 
may be accounted for from their being the only province thai 
refufed to make him a God. The fneering of the Roman 
poets is, in the cafe of a conquered nation, but a poor proof of 
a matter of fact. But thefe cavillers have not reflected that 
the hiftory of the Jews, from which their abufe is drawn, con- 
siders them wholly as objects of morality and religion, un- 
der the immediate government of the Lord Jehovah, not 
with other hiitcries as a ftate riling aad falling in the fcale of 

opulence. 



iSo on the Treatment and 

highefl: place, are, as I before obferved, flat 
ilofes, prominent chins, woolly hair, black fkins ; 
to which the curious anatomift adds fkulls lefs 
capacious, calves of the legs lefs flefhy, and 
elevated more towards the hams. Now, al- 
lowing all thefe, we want a link to connect 
them with inferiority. Lefs capacious (kulls, 
,indeed, will at once be deemed conclufive 
againft us ; 'but has the rule been applied, 
and. is it found agreeable to obfervation in com- 
mon life ? 

We know that climate, diet, and the vari- 
ous modes of life have great power over the 
features, form, and ftature of man. Weft 
Indian children, educated in England, improve 
not only in complexion, but in elegance of fea- 
tures : an alteration arifing, perhaps, equally 
from change of climate, of diet, and of educa- 
tion, 

opulence. Take the mad virtuous people of this, or any 
ancient period, and meafure their manners by the perfect law 
of God, and will they (land in a more amiable or praife- 
■worthy light than thefe defpifed out-cads? Doth Jeremiah 
paint the depravity of his people in ftronger lines than honed 
Latimer doth that of his age, though the period of reformation ? 
Would Latimer foften his dile, were he to return among us ? 
Farther, to be abufed is a fign of oppofition and emulation 
rather than of inferiority. Why, among the various nations 
that inhabit the Britiih ifles, is one alone abufed by their 
wealthier neighbours, but becaufe it treads molt clofely at their 
heels? Had not the Jews made a diftinguifhed figure in the 
Roman Empire, the triumph that celebrated their conqueft 
would have clofed the account of them as a people. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. iSl 

tion. We fee {imilarity of features run through 
particular families. Shall we, therefore, be 
able to tell which carries the enfigns of genius ; 
which bears the impreffion of wifdom, the pro- 
per foundation of power. On this fuppofition, 
hereditary indefeafible right in Kings would not 
be a fubjecl: of ridicule, but of grave difcufiion, 
We need only to diftinguifh accurately the 
{lamp of royalty to put ourfelves under the beft 
poflible government. Were this allowed, we 
could no longer laugh at the Egyptians for pre- 
tending to be able to chufe out their God Apis 
from amidft herds of common oxen. We fee 
fets of national features independent of coloufo 
We fee colour gradually verging from white to 
black, through every intermediate degree of 
tawny and copper. We fee genius fporting in 
various forms, tall in Newton, bulky in Hume 3 
{lender in Voltaire, diminutive and deformed in 
Pope. Where (hall we fix the claim of ge- 
nius ? how purfue it through all the diverfity 
of human form? Or, were we to attempt it, 
and infolently place ourfelves, or our tribe, in 
the higheft rank, would not History dam the 
vain garland from our brow ? Would it not tell 
us that arts, fciences, and the immediate capa- 
city for them, are progreflive in their nature 
and objects, vifiting fometimes this region, fome- 
times another ? 

Again 3 



l82 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

Again, of the fame fociety, of the fame fa- 
mily, fome men are fmooth, fome hairy, fome 
tall, fome fhort, fome fair, fome brown. But 
as thefe peculiarities are indifcriminately diftri- 
buted among individuals, otherwife equal, no 
body thinks of applying a rule to meafure the 
difference, or of afcribing to each .its allotted 
fhare of mental powers. Yet the moft minute 
difference, a fhade more or lefs, of this or that 
colour, muff have as diftincl a caufe to pro- 
duce it, as what divides a man from a monkey. 
And Mr. Hume, becaufe a tall bulky man, and 
alfo a fubtile philofopher, might have denied 
a capacity for metaphyfical fubtilty to all who 
wanted thefe his great bodily Attributes, as well 
as fuppofe capacity and vigour of mind incom-- 
patible with a flat nbfe, curling hair, and a black 
fkin. 

It is faid of negroes, that their brain is black- 
ifh, and the glandula pinealis wholly black j a 
remark of which the Cartefian, with his au- 
dience-hall of perception, might make much. 
It has not come within my notice ; nor on the 
principles of common fenfe can any thing be 
inferred from it, unlefs anatomy had alfo deter- 
mined that the jaundice affects not thefe parts, 
as a proof that this blacknefs arifes not from 
the colour of the fkin. But it is obferved that 
their blood is of a dark red. This may be ac- 
counted 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 183 

counted for from their poor fait diet, and their 
working naked in the fun m % and this colour in 
the blood may contribute to thefe appearances 
in the brain, while running through the capil- 
lary veflels that are fpread over every vifible 
part of it. 

The {kin takes its colour from a gelatinous 
fubftance, placed between the fcarf and the 
proper (kin : this fubftance approaches to jet 
black in proportion as the place of their nati- 
vity lies near the equator. In bad health, it 
equally, with the northern white, in the fame 
circum fiances, changes into a fickly yellow, Is 
not colour a precarious foundation for genius, 
feeing, in one view, we may fuppofe it to re- 
duce the parts of a Tick white man, in another 
to increafe thofe of a lick negro, by bringing 
both nearer to a ratio of equality. 

Perhaps an enquiry into the nature of freckles 
in fair complexioned people might throw fome 
light on the blacknefs of the African. The feat 
of their blacknefs and of freckles is the fame ; 
and they appear to be allied in nature, being 
both, probably, a fecretion, and coagulation 
from the capillary veflels, brought about in 
particular circumftances by the mini dry of the 
weather and fun : for negroe children are born 
white, and the weather and fun caufe freckles. 

When 



184 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

When, therefore, we can account for the pre- 
difpofing caufe of freckles in particular perfons, 
we fhall know fomething of black (kins : for 
a freckle may be defined a partial black (kin ; 
a black fkin an univerfal freckle. It may be 
an help in the inquiry to remark, that a dif- 
pofition to be freckled and ftrong red curling 
hair generally go together : as in this light, a 
black colour may be deemed the effect of wea- 
ther on a delicate fkin ; and freckles as a fimi- 
lar efFe£t on fkins of a coarfer, though not the 
coarfeft grain. It would be curious to obferve, 
among one's acquaintances, if their parts were 
in the inverfe proportion of the finenefsof their 
fkins ; or if a much freckled {kin, with its curl- 
ing hair, as approaching to black, be a fign of 
the owner's ftupidity or dulnefs. 

In northern climates men have long hair, and 
fheep have wool ; in fouthern climates fheep 
have hair, and Africans woolly heads. In time 
we may be able to account for both without 
bringing genius into queflion. The flat nofes 
of negroes, in many cafes, may be accounted 
for from the cuftom of being conftantly tied on 
their mothers backs when infants, and nature 
has prepared them for this, by fhortening the 
cartilage of the nofe. Sometimes they are pro- 
cured, as an agreeable feature, by violence. 
In general they are a national feature, like 

the 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 185 

the high cheek bones of the Scotch. Calves, 
fvvelling little, and placed high, are frequent, 
but not univerfal, or even general, in the legs 
of negroes ; nor feem they to prevail much 
more among them, especially among Creoles, 
than among the Creole whites, who are ori- 
ginally from Europe. Some negroes have legs, 
that in clumfmefs and lownefs of calves, may 
vie with an Irifh porter. The fame may be 
affirmed of the prominent chin : it is frequent, 
not general j a convex face is not a rare fight 
among them.- If, therefore, an oblongated, or 
concave face be, as is fuppofed, connected with 
a fmall cerebellum, it is not their general attri- 
bute. On the other hand, I have amufed my- 
felf with obferving, that fome of the mod im- 
proved of my acquaintances may be remarked 
tor prominence of chin. 

Whether thefe didinguiming marks of ne- 
groes were, as we have fuppofed, fixed by the 
Author of nature, as part of that plan of par- 
ticular fociety, and future reunion, that began 
with the race of man, whether caufed by cli- 
mate, or given to enable them to bear the fer- 
vours of the torrid zone, or whether all thefe 
caufes have cooperated, while we conclude not 
on our fuperiority over them, is matter of in- 
recent difputation. Of the lad-mentioned caufe 
it is certain, that though they work naked in 
the hotted hours, their fkin never blifters, 

while 



l86 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

while vagabond white failors blifter wherever 
the fun reaches them ; and that they enjoy hot 
dry weather, while moifture and cold make them 
fhiver, and crouch down helplefs and fpent. 
On the whole, our obfervations are not of that 
length of time, and accuracy of manner, on 
which to build the fond opinion of northern 
fuperiority ; and reafon and revelation forbid 
the haughty thought. Suppofing the general 
fuperioity of Europe over the natives of the 
torrid zone, while we argue from thefe princi- 
ples, how mall we account for the Mexicans 
being lefs black, and more civilized within the 
equatorial girdle, than the Californians, inha- 
biting the region of genius, and white Ikins ? 
or, according to the author of the observation, 
" how can improved fociety change an appa- 
" rent law of nature?" Shall we fuppofe the 
equatorial circle to have been originally allot- 
ted to the black race, and that they have been 
expelled from all parts of it, except Africa ? 



SECT. 






CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 187 
SECT. III. 

Ob] eclions to African Capacity •, drawn from 
Anatomy \ confidtnd, 

WE have gone through the feveral particu- 
lars, in which negroes vilibly differ from white 
men, and find, that fhould they even mark a 
different race, they can in no refpefit determine 
their inferiority. We come now to confider, 
what may be indicated from diminutive fkulis. 

A gentleman, juftly celebrated for his accu- 
racy in the courfe of his anatomical refearches, 
has difcovered a furprizing difference between 
European and African fkulis. This fuggefted to 
him the idea of drawing out a feries of heads in 
this gradation ; European, African, monkey, dog. 
The difference between the two firft, is indeed 
finking : the European, by thefwelling out of the 
hinder part of the fkull, fupporting itfelf fo as 
to (hew the face almofl perpendicular to the ta- 
ble, on which it is placed ; while the African, for 
want of fuch fupport, recedes from the perpendi- 
cular, and fhews and obvious elongation of the 
lower jaw. The ufe that he has made of the 
difcovery, has been the clafling of the nations by 
their attributes, without taking genius into ac- 
count. He rather throws it out but only as 
a conjecture, that negroes might have been the 
originals of mankind, he having obferved, that 

in 



1 88 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

in all birds and beads, the originals, whence 
the tame forts are derived, are black, and that 
every variation from them approaches more or 
lefs to white. 

Other men, lefs modefl, have drawn from 
the obfervation, the conclufion of inferiority ; 
it therefore will be necefTary to pay a particular 
attention to it, or rather to their deduction from 
it. Ajcid we mall firft obferve, fuppofmg this 
diftin&ion real, that it mud have fome benevo- 
lent and general purpofe ; which purpofe we 
fhould fearch for, and follow out ; which pur- 
pofe we know is not to feed pride, or indulge 
cruelty as thefe notions at prefent dc. Matter 
of fa£t, or the real agency of nature, wherever 
difcovered, may be aflumed for the foundation*' 
of our reafoning ; nor fhould we vainly imagine 
that me ftands in need of our feigned apology, 
or wants to lie concealed behind the flimfey 
texture of our conjectures. We may be unac- 
quainted with her workings, or with the par- 
ticular purpofe that fhe means to carry on. But 
we need not therefore fear, left what comes 
from her hands be found fraught with abfurdity, 
or lead to principles de(lru<5tive of humanity, 
or derogatory to wifdom and goodnefs. Let 
then the fa£t be, that negroes are an infe- 
rior race ; it is a conclufion, that hitherto has 
lain hid and unobferved, and while it leads only 
to an abufe of power in the fuperior race, it is 

better 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 189 

better concealed, than drawn out into notice. 
Perhaps Providence may keep it doubtful, till 
men be (o far improved, as not to make an ill 
ufe of the difcovery. I am fure, at prefent, 
the power, if it be a ri^ r, is delegated to 
many improper perfons. In the mean time, 
while the fupericr race continues likely to abufe 
it, every flep that leads to the eftablimment of 
a point, the good purpofe of which lies hid, 
while the evil puipofe is ready at hand, fhould 
undergo and {land the fevered fcrutiny before it 
receives our approbation. 

1. In this cafe it mufl be eftablifhed as a 
maxim, that except in cafes of idiotifm, or 
accidental ill conformation, the rational pow- 
ers are in proportion directly as the quantity 
of brains. And hence it will follow, that with 
the foregoing exceptions, we may, among Eu- 
ropeans, bring genius to actual admeafurement, 
and determine its degrees by the jftze of the 
pofleffor's head, juft as an excifeman gauges a 
beer barrel. How much of thofe wranglings, 
that render us contemptible in the eyes of all 
Eurdpe, fhould we fave in both houfes, if our 
competitors for power, inftead of wailing the 
nation's time in a war of words, mould each 
fubmit his head to this fimple trial of its capa- 
city ? 

* 

a. In 



190 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

2. In the fecond place, this difference mud 
be univerfal, without a (ingle exception, unlefs 
as above. For, as we have clearly proved, 
there mud always be a degree of excellence to 
diflinguifh the loweft of the fuperior order, 
from the higher! of the inferior. And this, it 
feems, in the cafe of the fkull, is actually de- 
termined by the fame gentleman againft the 
fuppofition ; for there is in his poffeffion an 
European fkull of the fame proportion as his 
African. In confirmation, I may fay, that I 
know many inftances, where the African excels 
individual Europeans, in the exercife of the 
reafoning faculties. 

3. That brains and reafon are conflantly in 
a direct ratio, will be difputed in determining 
between the dog and monkey. I have heard 
much of monkeys ; I have had opportunities of 
obferving them ; but nothing has led me to con- 
clude, that they are equal, far lefs fuperior, in 
reafoning and fagacity, to that humble friend 
of man, the faithful dog : certainly they are not 
fo teachable, nor fo capable of being attached 
by good offices, or gratitude. While on this 
head, we may obferve, that naturalifls fuppofe 
every various fpecies of dog to come from the 
fhepherd's cur ; yet their fhapes and qualities 
differ more fenfibly, than does the African from 
the European. 

4. Another 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. IQI 

4. Another fa& to be eftablifhed is, that the 
difcriminating fizeof the African fkull, and con- 
fequent inferiority of reafoning, continue in the 
fixed civilized generations, and that, after no 
given period, do they approach to European 
capacity. But allowing the difference to be at 
firfl: real, I can, from obfervation, deny its con- 
tinuance among Creole negroes. 

Suppofing the diftin&ion to be found among 
the wilder tribes, we may well account for it 
in the following manner. Among favages, the 
powers of the mind are confined to few objects ; 
and though their acutenefs refpe&ing them, in 
particular cafes, may exceed what can be ima- 
gined in poliihed life, yet certain it is, that we 
have few well attefled inftances of the capacity 
of favages, in attaining the various accomplish- 
ments, and abftracl: notions, to be found in 
common among a civilized people. Their 
want of words in their native tongue, to ex- 
prefs, or communicate their ideas, would be 
a fufficient bar. And this may be one great 
caufe why, in North-America, the children of 
favages, after having- been educated in the Eu- 
ropean manner, and taught to read and write, 
generally feize the firft opportunity of returning 
to the rude cuftoms of their fathers. Now we 
can perceive a gracious deilgn in what Provi- 
dence denies, as well as in what it beftows. A man 
capable of varied knowledge, and versatile ex- 
ertion, 



192 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ertion, in a fituation where he had few or no 
objecls to work on, would be unhappy in him- 
felf, and a curfe to all around him. * His de- 
fire, and power of exertion, are therefore con- 
fined within his opportunities and means of em- 
ployment ; and we have only to try, and difco- 
ver the manner, in which nature has contrived 
to fit him for his rank. In doing this, we will 
confider the difference between the fkuli and the 
reafon of an African, and thofe of an European, 
as an eftablifhed fa€t, from which we are to 
reafon. 

Suppofe then an African, in his favage ftate 9 
to have lefs brains, and in confequence lefs rea- 
fon, yet ftill a fufficiency for his fituation ; the 
queflion then is, whether his head, his brains, 
and his reafon, would not expand in the fuccef- 
five generations of civilized life. We know, 
that independent of the immediate organs of ge- 
neration, the female, even in parts exactly fimi- 
lar to thofe in the male, is particularly adapted 
to the bearing, bringing, and fuckling of children. 
Now the way of life, and the degree of exer- 
cife, that the female has ufed from her birth, may 
either check, or favour her conftru&ion as a mo- 
ther. 



* What fad work would the authors of our prefent new 
fyftems in philofophy, religion, and government, make among 
the fimple Chiquefaws or Algonquins. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 193 

ther. In the favage (late, where hunting is the 
chief means of fubfiflence, food muft be fcanty, 
and only to be procured by patience and exer- 
tion. Savages therefore, both male and female, 
will be found lean, dry, mufcular. And this 
condition will particularly affect the female, be- 
caufe in almoft every favage tribe, fhe is confi- 
dered as a (lave, intended to labour for, and 
ferve her hufband. Will not thefe circumftan- 
ces, her fcanty diet, and violent exercife, af- 
fe<5t the conformation of her body, and render 
the few children whom fhe brings forth, lean, 
flender, their heads fmaller, more elongated, 
the brain of a drier, lefs elegant texture, juft 
capable of that degree of intelligence which the 
favage ftate requires? And may we not afk, 
Is not this, in a certain degree, found to be the 
cafe of fuch women among us, as are habituat- 
ed to hard labour ? Children of the loweft pea- 
fants, I believe, are as feldom found to take an 
high ftation in literature, as in elegance of form. 
The middle ranks of life, that fupplyconve- 
niencies to foften, not luxuries to drown na- 
ture, are moft favourable to elegance of form 
and acutenefs of underftandlng. Fifhermen's 
wives, in the north of Scotland, labour more 
hardly than any other women in Britain ; and 
their neighbours look down with contempt on 
the ftupidity and ignorance found in the h" thing 
villages. Hence may be accounted for the care 
K taken 



Ip4 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

taken by the ancient Bramins to regulate the 
diet, exercife, and paflions of their pregnant 

women. 

But fuppofe favages to be fo far civilized, 
as to be fixed in their habitations, to be well 
clothed, and properly fed ; fuppofe their wo- 
men treated with the regard that women ge- 
nerally receive m poliflied life, eafed of labour, 
employed only in regulating their family, or 
fupported in idlenefs, or amufement. Would 
not their bodies expand, and the fexual quali- 
ties attain an higher perfection ? Would not 
the embryo be better nourifhed, the tender tex- 
ture of the brain be lefs injured, than when 
the pregnant woman ufed fcanty nourifhment, 
and violent cxercife ? Would not the children 
be brought forth more plump ? Would not the 
brain, favoured in its growth, force the fkull to 
take its natural fphericai form, and according 
to our hypothefis, make the man more capable 
of improvement ? And, this, as far as my op- 
portunities of observation have jeached, is the 
cafe of negroes who have been domeftic flaves 
for three or four generations in our colonies, or 
have been made free three or four generations. 

back.* 

That 

* The r.eafoning here ufed was fubmitted to the late celebrat- 
ed Dr. Hunter, -who was pleafed to fay, That, as far as ana- 
tomy was concerned, he thought it fair and cooclufive. The 

fame 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 10$ 

That there is any eflential difference be- 
tween the European and African mental powers, 
as far as my experience has gone, I pofitively 
deny. That there may be an accidental or cir- 
cumftantial difference, I can eafily fuppofe, and, 
mould it be true, think I can fee the reafbn of 
it, as above explained. And this opinion is far- 
ther ftrengthened by remarking, that, as far as 
the hiftory of polilhed fociety goes back, both 
Afiatic and European women have, from the 
firft, been generally indulged, and accuftomed to 
a domeftic fedentary life, favourable to the 
bearing and fuckling of fuch children as might 
be capable of advancement in the departments 
of reafon, and in all that varied intelligence 
which polifhed life calls forth and (lands in need 
of. We have indeed one exception, and it is 
favourable to our conclufion. The Spartan 

fame gentleman, in his courfe of lectures at the Royal Aca- 
demy, when Ihewing the gradation of fkulls, a difcovery 
which he candidly gave- to its right Author, humanely ob- 
ferved, that he drew no conclufion from the difference in them 
refpe&ing African inferiority. Several perfons, who had pof- 
feffed the bed opportunities of obferving the capacity of Afri- 
cans, had affued him, that there was no difference to be feen, 
but what could be traced to their depreffed condition, and that 
there were inftances where African ability had fhewn itfelf in 
fpite of all the difadvantages under which it laboured. He 
understood, that the very doubt whether they might not be 
an inferior race, operated againft the humane treatment of 
them ; and God forbid, faid he, that any vague conjecture of 
mine fhould be ufed to confirm the prejudice.-— Such was the 
modefty of true genius. 

K.2 women 



Ig6 ON THE TREATMENT ANI* 

women were accuflomed to a poor diet, and 
violent exercife, even to contending and wrefl- 
ling with men. And it is well known, that a- 
mong the polifhed Greeks, the Spartans were a 
nation of favages : their language, like that of 
other favages, broken, yet expreflive ; their 
knowledge confined to war, but to the part of a 
mere foldier % for they were once fo abfolutely 
without a citizen fit to command their army, 
that they were obliged to employ a lame Athe- 
nian fidler as a general." Nay, fo late as the 
Perfian war, they were forced to fend to the 
Athenians to get inflrucled how to attack a bar- 
ficado, made of baggage implements. Nor a- 
mong the numerous artifts and philofophers that 
Greece produced, are any celebrated as Spar- 
tans by birth. For, if Lycurgus is to be rec- 
koned an exception, we muft fay, that he form- 
ed the Spartan difcipline, hut was not himfelf 
formed by it. If one or two individuals of that 
ftate are to be ranked amonged the philofo- 
phers, for uttering a few abrupt fentences, there 
is not a chief among the American favages but 
has an equal> perhaps a fuperior, title to the 
flation. 



SECT, 



CONVERSION .Of AFRICAN SLAVES. I 97 



SECT. IV. 

Objections to African Capacity, drawn from 
Obfervation, confulered. 

THE ingenious author of a late Hittory of Ja- 
maica, has treated this fubjecl: at confiderabls 
lengthy and appears to have formed, from his 
own obfervation, the fame opinion as Hume's, 
of negroes being a diftln£t race. To fuppofe 
them only a diftin£t. race, will not immediately 
affect our arguments for their humane treat- 
ment and mental improvement ; but the confe- 
quences ufually drawn from it fhock humanity, 
?.nd check every hope of their advancement : 
for, if allowed to be a diftinR race, Euro- 
pean pride immediately concludes them an in* 
ferior race, and then it follows, of courfe, that 
nature formed them to be (laves to their fupe- 
riors, And the matter having ettabliftied thefe 
premifes generally, and complimented himfelf 
with a place among the fuperior beings, fairly 
concludes himfelf loofed from all obligations, 
but thofe of intereft, in his conduct towards 
them. A horfe and a bull, are animals each of 
a different fpecies; but the fuperiority has not been 
ettablifhed between them, nor the inferior brought 
into bondage by the lordly matter. For argu- 
ment's fake, fuppofe negroes of a different and even 

of 



I98 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

of an inferior race, Mill we know they are capa- 
ble of forming, and actually have formed, free 
independent focieties ; and, though they have 
not yet attained the refinements and luxuries of 
Europe, yet have they fhewn no fmall ingenuity 
in compacting themfelves together, and made 
no mean progrefs in many of the arts of life. 
And to help to compofe, and be a member of 
a free ftate, is more honourable, and gives 
greater fcope to the mental powers, than to be 
the mod poiilhed flave in America or Eu- 
rope. Still being fuch, are they to be drag- 
ged away from a country adapted to their 
conftitutions, from plenty of nutritious food, 
to which they have been accuflomed from in- 
fancy,* to work as flaves, hungry, naked, torn 
with ftripes, in a diftanr, unfavourable clime, 
for the avarice and lulls of, perhaps, fome of 
the mofl worthiefs perfons of the pretendedly 
fuperior families, with whom they had neither 
acquaintance or connection ? Suppofe different 
races, and that they vary in point of excel- 
lence ; yet, in what chapter of nature's law is 
it declared, that one quarter of the globe mall 
breed flaves for the reft ? Where (hall we find 
a charter conferring authority on the one, and 

* Left this (hould teem to contradicl the reafoning drawn 
from their original favage ftate, it is neceflary to obferve that 
the flaves, as brought from Africa, differ greatly, in refpett of 
ability, according as the nation from which they have been 
kidnapped has advanced more or lefs in fecial life. 

afcertaining 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. I99 

afcertaining the fubmifiion of the other ? Are 
no conditions annexed, no rights referved, 
which, when violated, the fubje&ed race can 
plead before their common Lord ? Such a Hate 
cannot be imagined as exifting under the go- 
vernment of God : it is blafphemy againfl his 
benevolence even to fuppofe it. The inanimate 
and brute creation was fitted for and fubmitted 
to man's dominion ; but man himfelf was left 
independent of every perfonal claim in his fel- 
lows. And nothing but an implied voluntary 
furrender of his independency to fociety, for the 
benefits of law can control or lellen his claim. 
But North-American or WefY-Indian ilavery 
implies no furrender, fuppofes no fuhmiffion, 
but to neceflity and force. 

Had nature intended negroes for ilavery, fhe 
would have endowed them with many qualities 
which they now want* Their food would have 
needed no preparation, their bodies no covering ; 
they would have been born without any fenti- 
ment for liberty ; and, polTeffrng a patience not 
to be provoked, would have been incapable of 
refentment or oppofnion ; that high treafon 
againfl: the divine right of European dominion. 
A horfe or a cow, when abufed, beaten, or 
flarved, will try to get out of the reach of the 
lafh, and make no fcruple of attempting the 
nearefl inclofure to get at paflure. But we 

have 



200 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

have not heard of their withdrawing themfelves 
from the fervice of an hard matter, nor of aveng- 
ing with his blood the cruelty of his treatment. 

To fuppofe different, efpecially fuperior and 
inferior races, fuppofes different rules of con- 
duct, and a different line of duty neceffary to 
be prefcribed for them. But where do we find 
traces of this difference in the prefent cafe ? 
Vice never appeared in Africa in a more barba- 
rous and (hocking garb, than fhe is feen every 
day in the mod pclifhed parts of Europe. Eu- 
rope has not fhevvn greater elevation of fgnti- 
ment than has fhone through the gloom of A- 
frica. We can fee caufe why the nations, in- 
to which for the purpofes of fociety mankind 
has been divided, mould have character i flic 
marks of complexion and features, (and almofl: 
the whole of the prefent fubjecl: of difcuffion 
maybe refolved into thefe) to tie, by the refem- 
blance, fellow-citizens more clofely and affec- 
tionately together. And, be it remarked, that 
thefe figns are mere arbitrary impreffions, that 
neither give nor take away animal or rational 
powers; but, in their, effect, are confined to 
the purpofe for which they appear to have 
been impreffed, the binding of tribes and fami- 
lies together. Farther, climate, mode of living, 
and accidental prevalence of particular cuftoms, 
will account for many national chara&eriftics. 

But 



CONVERSION OF. AFRICAN SLAVES. 201 

But the foul is a fimple fubftance, not to be 
diftinguHhed by fquat or tall, black, brown, or 
fair. Hence all the difference that can take place 
in it is a greater or lefs degree of energy, a more 
or lefs complete correfpondence of action, with 
the circumflances in which the agent is placed. 
In (hort, we can have no idea of intellect, but 
as acting with infinite power and perfect pro- 
priety in the Deity, and with various degrees of 
limited power and propriety, in the feveral orders 
of intelligent created beings ; fo that there is 
nothing to diftinguifh thefe feveral created orders, 
but more or lefs power; and nothing to hinder 
us from fuppofing the poffible gradual advance- 
ment of the lower into the higher ranks of creat- 
ed beings. But we cannot, in like manner, fpeak 
of the change of a bull into an horfe, or of a 
fwine into an elephant. The annihilation of 
the one is included in the tranfmutation into the 
other, becaufe in it that is loft which conftituted 
the fpecific difference. 

We can plainly fee the propriety of different 
purfuits, and different degrees of exertion of the 
reafoning energetic powers in the feveral indi- 
viduals that compofe a community, for carrying 
on the various purpofes of fociety. But there 
is not, therefore, a neceffity to have recourfe to 
different fpecies of fouls, as if the peafant had 
one fort, the mechanic a fecond, the man of 
K 5 learning 



202 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

learning a third ; yet whatever concludes for the 
propriety of races differing in point of excellence, 
will conclude alfo for a difference in thefe. And 
we fee, in contradiction to all fuch reveries, that 
communities flourifh in proportion as the lefs of 
any other difference takes place, than that in 
which fociety naturally difpofeth of its members 
for their mutual or joint benefit. The foul is 
verfatile, and being fimple in itfelf takes its man- 
ner and tincture from the objects around it ; it 
univerfally appears to be fitted only for that 
character in which it is to a<5t : but that this is 
not an indelible character appears plainly in every 
page of the hiffory of mankind. Look into our 
books of travels, and, in perfons no ways remark- 
able for genius or invention, admire the almofl 
incredible efforts and productions of neceffity. 
How often has the fhepherd fhone out as a 
ftatefman, and the peafant triumphed as a gene- 
ral? Can we fuppofe greater difference between 
the African and European, than, for example, 
between the keeper of fheep, and the Governor 
of men ; between leading an herd of gregarious 
animals out to pafture, and directing the com- 
plicated genius and bent of that various creature 
man, either to counteract: or attain the purpofes 
of fociety : yet the only difference between them 
lies in the direction given to the mental facul- 
ties. 

Thus 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 203 

Thus far we have oppofed opinion with ar- 
gument, and, excepting a remark of which we 
fhall take notice, we may leave all that the 
author above-mentioned has advanced of the 
inferiority of negroes, to be contrafted with the 
inftances given by himfelf of their energy, abi- 
lities, and fentiment, and to be compared with 
the inflances of ftupidity to be found in the mod 
polifhed nations. For, as we have proved, if 
we eftablifh the notion of different races, we 
mud (till draw a line between the higheft of the 
one^ and the lowed: of that next above it. Par- 
ticularly, we may fay of his example, Francis 
Williams the negroe poet and mathematician, 
that though his verfes bear no great marks of 
genius, yet, there have been bred at the fame 
univerfity an hundred white mailers of arts, and 
many doctors, who could not improve them ; 
and, therefore, his particular fuccefs in the fields 
of fcience cannot operate againil the natural abi- 
lities of thofe of his colour, till it be proved, 
that every white man bred there has outitripped 
him. But allowance is to be made for his being 
a folitary efTay, and the pofiibility of a wrong 
choice having been made in him. Childifh 
fprightlinefs, for which it feems he was fingled 
out for the trial, is not always, nor indeed often, 
a faithful promifer of manly parts ; too fre- 
quently it withers without fruit, like the early 
bloflbms of the fpring. Other gentlemen of 

Jamaica 



204 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

Jamaica fpeak highly of his abilities, and of the 
favour they procured for him. 

The remark in this author referred to, is that 
Mulattoes cannot propagate their kind with each 
other, or, at leaft, that their children are few 
and fhort-iived. Now it fhouJd be obferved 
that Mulattoe girls, during the flower of their 
age, are univerfally facrificed to the luft of while 
men ; in fome inftances, to that of their own 
fathers. In our towns, the fale of their firft 
commerce with the otjier fex, at an unripe age, 
is an article of trade for their mothers and elder 
fitters j nay, it is not an uncommon thing for 
their miftrefles, chafle matrons, to hire them 
out, and take an account of their gain? ; or, if 
they be free,; they hire their fervice ard their 
perfons, to fome one of the numerous band of 
bachelors. In this commerce they often con- 
tract difeafes, and generally continue in it till 
grown haggard and worn out. Thus few 
Mulattoes marry in their own rank, and fewer 
in a Mate of health favourable to population. 
But where the above circumftances take not 
place, Mulattoe marriages are extremely pro- 
lific, in every inftance within my knowledge; 
and I can recollect more than fix fuch families 
where there is a numerous healthy offspring, 
and no doubt to be entertained of their legiti- 
macy. As intellect is the peculiar attribute of 
man, and is a fimple fubflance, it is incumbent 

on 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 205 

on thofe who maintain a difference in races and 
natural abilities, to tell us how the fuperior in- 
tellects of a white perfon, and the inferior in- 
tellects of a negroe unite, and become a tertium 
quid, in their Mulattoe offspring. Is nature at 
the expence of forming feparate and different 
conditioned intellects for all the variety of caffs 
between complete white and black in our feveral 
colonies ? * 

SECT, 

* In the above difcuffion we have aflumed the exiftence of 
intelle£t.as confidently, as if modern philofophy had not aflerted 
man to be organized matter. The affertion, though unac- 
companied by conviction, is fuch a check to every afpiring 
thought, that hardly, (ince I heard of the difcovery, have I 
been able to reconcile one to myfelf : nor can I endure an ©pi- 
nion which would rob me of a comfort that fmoothed every ill 
of life, and encouraged me to look up to futurity for a recom- 
pence, which my fteart told me was referved for the humble and 
benevolent. It is true, that the abettors of it profefs to believe, 
with Chriftians, man's future reftoration. But if man be a 
mere combination of atoms, when that combination is broken 
by death, the Being formed by it is annihilated. A reunion 
of the fame particles will conftitute a new Being, having no 
moral refpeft to what happened to the firft, neither ftained with 
its blame, nor inheriting its merit. Indeed imagination can- 
not combine together the idea of merit and matter, becaufe 
all the motions or actions (if we could ufe the term) of matter 
muft be neceflary and mechanical. The villain who murJers 9 
the Samaritan who faves, a man, deferve equal applaufe. 
Volition, or the aft of thinking, brings into exiftence fome 
new motion or form. But can we imagine fuch a power lodged 
with matter, which muft itfelf receive from without every 
particular impreflion, every new direction ? 

Suppofe matter capable of tMnking, and the man to have 
every nerve employed in purfuing a certain train of reafoning ; 

from 



206 ON THE TREATMENT AND 



SECT. V. 

■ 

African Capacity vindicated from Experience. 

HAVING {hewn how little can be rationally 
concluded againft the capacity of negroes, from 

their 

from what energy, what attribute of matter fhall we deduce 
the power of flopping in the full career of inquiry, and taking 
at once an oppofite path ? If thinking be the effect of organi- 
zation, we can fuppofe no principle, no power lodged in the 
man to controul or direct it. It muft proceed mechanically, 
till it be ftopt mechanically. The man who reflects on what 
paffeth in his mind, will perceive a difference between that 
inward act which weighs circumftances, and that which deter- 
mines him on action. But deliberation is incompatible with 
every notion of matter, becaufe it muft ever be forcibly 
carried away by the predominant weight or'power. To deli- 
berate on, 01 balance circumftances, muft fuppofe fome prin- 
ciple endowed with the power of election ; but of this, matter, 
as matter, is incapable. 

We cannot take into account what the Deity poiTibly can do 
in the plenitude of power. Wherever his works lie open to 
inquiry, we obferve, that he invariably proceeds according to 
the original nature of the fubject. Fire never freezes, froft 
never warms. But if the Deity give to matter the power of 
thinking, he fuperadds an attribute analogous to no other 
quality of matter within our knowledge. He can give to a 
bull the form and attributes of an horfe. But is not the bull 
annihilated, and a new animal formed in his ftead ? In like 
manner, to give to matter the ability of thinking, it muft be 
changed into fpirit, becaufe the attribute of thinking is incom- 
patible with matter, even as the diftinguilhing qualities of an 
horfe cannot co-exilt with thofe of a bul|. • i 

The 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES, 207 

their equatorial fettlement, flat nofe, woolly- 
head, projecting chin, high calves, and black 
fkin, we come to fa£t. ~N#W we know, that 
houfe negroes, who are generally Creoles, and 
are converfant with their white mafters, have 
all the addrefs, intrigue, and cunning of family 
fervants in Europe. In their mafters they can 
mark the ridiculous point, the improper conduct, 
and often give thefe fuperior beings that advice, 
which they have not wifdom enough to follow ; 
often manage their foibles, and mould them to 
their own intereft. If, according to the Mar- 

chionefs 

The weight of a material being is the weight of its parts 
taken together, and may be divided into as many lefler weights 
as there are component parts - y its extent is a number of extents, 
in proportion to the number of its extended parts ; and thus it 
holds of every quality, with which we are acquainted, except 
this new difcovered attribute, no new quality being produced 
by the compofition. We can affirm nothing of the whole that 
may not be affirmed in part of every particle. But we cannot 
thus divide volition into parts, or fcatter it among 'the feverai 
limbs or organs, nor even (hare it between the cerebrum and 
cerebellum. It is one fimple uncompounded a6t. 

If it be neceffary to fuppofe a principle diftinct from matter, 
to give form, motion, order, and defign to things, may we not 
alfo fuppofe, that fuch creatures as men, who feel thefe active 
powers within themfelves to a certain degree, may alfo be 
endowed with a portion of that fpirit, which alone can begin 
and imprefs motion on inert matter. 

Merit has been afcribed to him who neglected the body to 
have leifure to improve the mind ; but on this fcheme it is in- 
tirely abfurd. He who cares for the body cares for the whole 
man. A glutton is not an object of ridicule, but of fober 
praife j he is employed in perfecting his ability to think. 



208 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

chiorrefs d'Ancre, favouritifm and influence be 
marks of fuperiority, many Weft-Indian families 
mutt allow a prefeignce to the Africans. 

Negroes are capable of learning any thing 
that requires attention and corre&nefs of manner. 
They have powers of defcription and mimickry 
that would not have difgraced the talents of our 
modern Ariftophanes. The diftillation of rum, 
the tempering of the cane juice for fugar, which 
may be confidered as nice chemical operations, 
are univerfally committed to them. They be- 
come good mechanics ; they ufe the fquare and 
compafs, and eafily become matters of whatever 
bufinefs they are put to. They have a parti- 
cular turn for mufic, and often attain a conficle- 
rable proficiency in it without the advantage of 
a mafter. Negroe Tick nurfes acquire a furprizing 
fkill in the cure of ordinary difeafes, and often 
conquer diforders that have baffled an hoft of 
regulars. Nor want they emulation, in what- 
ever their obfervation can reach. Hence our 
black beaus, black belles, black gamefters, black 
keepers, black quacks, black conjurers, and all 
that variety of character, which ftrikes in their 
matters, or promifes to add to their own dignity 
or intereft. But what can we expect them to 
attempt in the higher departments of reafon ? 
Their flavifh employments and condition ; their 
being abandoned to the caprice of any matter ; 
the fubje&ion in which it is thought necettary 

to 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 209 

to keep them all ; thefe things deprefs their minds 
and fubdue whatever is manly, fpirited, inge- 
nuous, independent, among them. And thefe 
are weights fufficient to crufh a firft-rate hu- 
man genius. 

Had it been the lot of a paradoxical Hume, 
or of a benevolent Kaims, to have cultivated the 
fugar-cane, under a planter, in one of our old 
iflands ; the firft probably would have tried to 
have eked out his fcanty pittance of two pounds 
of flour or grain per week, by taking up the 
profeflion of a John Crowman, or coniurer; and 

doubtlefs wu'iiid have got many a flogging for 
playing tricks with, and impofing on the cre- 
dulity of his fellows, to cheat them of their 
allowance. The turn of the other to works 
of tafle might have expreffed itfelf in learning 
to blow a rude fort of- mufic from his noftril, 
through a hollowed piece of flick ; or, if blefTed 
with an indulgent matter, he might have 
learned to play by ear a few minuets, and fiddle 
a few country dances, to enable the family and 
neighbours to pafs an evening cheerfully to- 
gether* 

The truth is, a depth of cunning that en- 
ables them to over-reach, conceal, deceive, is 
the only province of the mind left for them, 
as flaves, to occupy. And this they cultivate, 

and 



210 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

and enjoy the fruits of, to a furprizing degree. 
I have, as a magiftrate, heard examinations and 
defences of culprits, that for quibbling, fub- 
terfuges, and fubtilty, would have done credit 
to the abilities of an attorney, moft notorioufly 
converfant in the villainous tricks of his profef- 
iion. Their command of countenance is fo 
perfect, as not to give the lead clue for difco- 
vering the truth ; nor can they be caught trip- 
ping in a (lory. Nothing in the turn or degree of 
their mental faculties, diftinguifhes them from 
Europeans, though fome difference muft ap- 
pear, if they were of a different or an inferior 
race. 

I had a young fellow, who was a notorious 
gambler, idler, liar, and man of pleafure 3 ; yet 
fo well did he lay his fchemes, fo plaufibly did 
he on all occafions account for his time and con- 
duct, that I, who could not punifti unlefs I could 
convince the culprit that I had undoubted proof 
of his guilt, was hardly ever able to find an 
opportunity of correcting him. This lad, when 
he came a boy from Africa , (lie wed marks of 
fentiment, and of a training above the common 
run of negroes. But flavery, even in the 
mildeft degree, and his accompanying with 
flaves, gave him fo worthleTs, diflipated a turn, 
that I was obliged to fend him out of the fa- 
mily, and have him taught a trade in hopes of 

his 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 211 

his reformation. By this he infenfibly acquired 
a little application, and has fince attached him- 
felf to a wife. His father, he fays, was a man 
of property, had a large houfhold, and many 
wives. He was kidnapped. 

There is another lad, who could {land with- 
out flinching to be cut in pieces by the whip, 
and not utter a groan. As whipping was a tri- 
umph, inftead of a punifhment to him, I was 
obliged to overlook the mod notorious faults, or 
affect generoufly to pardon them, rather than 
pretend to correct them. Yet this proceeds not 
from infenfibility of pain, for if bleeding be 
prefcribed for him when Tick, he cries like a 
child, and fhrinks from the operation. About 
twelve years ago he was caught in a fault, that 
by thecuftom of the colony would have j unified 
his mafter in carrying his punifhment to any 
degree, fhort of extremity. Pains were taken 
to fet the enormity of it before him, and he 
was freely pardoned, and his fellows were 
{Iri&ly forbidden ever to upbraid him with it. 
Since that time he has behaved remarkably well 
and truft-worthy, and fhewn a very uncommon 
attachment to the family. A third boy, vho is 
fenfible as a little lord of every affront offered 
to his dignity, could (land with the fallen air 
of a ffoic to receive the fevered correction. 



In 



%\% ON THE TREATMENT AND 

In truth, in fpite of the difadvantages under 
which they labour, individuals, on particular 
occafions, have fliewn an elevation of fentiment 
that would have done honour to a Spartan. 
The Spectator, No. 2 1 5, has celebrated a rude 
inftance in two negroes, in the ifland of St. 
Chrittopher, which on inquiry I find to be true. 
I will confirm this by the relation of a deed, 
that happened within thefe thirty years, for 
which I have no name. As I had my informa- 
tion from a friend of the matter's, in the maf- 
. ter's prefence, who acknowledged it to be ge- 
nuine, the truth of it is indifputable. The 
only liberty I have taken with it, has been to 
give words to the fentiment that infpired it. 

Quafhi was brought up in the family with 
his matter, as his play-fellow, from his child- 
hood. Being a lad of towardly parts, he rofe 
to be driver, or black overfeer, under his maf- 
ter, when the plantation fell to him by fuccef- 
fion. He retained for his matter the tender^ 
nefs that he had felt in childhood for his play- 
mate ; and the refpe£fc with which the relation 
of matter infpired him, was foftened by the af- 
fection which the remembrance of their boyitti 
intimacy kept a live in his breaft. He had no 
feparate intereftof his own, and in his matter's 
abfence redoubled his diligence, that his affairs 
might receive no injury from it. In fhort, here 

was 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 213 

was the mod delicate, yet mofl flrong, and 
feemingly indiflbluble tie, that could bind maf- 
ter and (lave together. 

Though the mailer had judgment to know 
when he was well ferved, and policy to reward 
gocd behaviour, he was inexorable when a 
fault was committed ; and when there was but 
an apparent caufe of fufpicion, he was too apt 
to let prejudice ufurp the place of proof. Qua- 
fhi could not exculpate himfelf to his fatisfac- 
tion, for fomething done, contrary to the dis- 
cipline of the plantation, and was threatened 
with the ignominious punimment of the cart- 
whip ; and he knew his mafter too well, to 
doubt of the performance of his promife. 

A negroe, who has grown up to manhood, 
without undergoing a folemn cart-whipping, aa 
fome by good chance will, efpecially if diftin- 
guifhed by any accomplifhment among his fel- 
lows, takes pride in what he calls the fmooth- 
nefs of his fkin, its being unrazed by the whip ; 
and he would be at more pains, and ufe more 
diligence to efeape fuch a cart-whipping, than 
many of our lower fort would ufe to (hun the 
gallows. It is not uncommon for a fober good 
negroe to ftab himfelf mortally, becaufe fome 
boy-overfeer has flogged him, for what he reck- 
oned a trifle, or for his caprice, or threatened 
him with a flogging, when he thought he did 

not 



214 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

not deferve it. Quaftti dreaded this mortal 
wound to his honour, and dipt away unnoticed, 
with? a view to avoid it. 

It is ufual for flaves, who expecl: to be punifti- 
ed for their own fault, or their matter's caprice, 
to go to fome friend of their mailer's, and beg 
him to carry them home, and mediate for them. 
This is found to be fo ufeful, that humane mas- 
ters are glad of the pretence of fuch mediation, 
and will fecretly procure it to avoid the neceflity 
of punifhing for trifles ; it other wife not being 
prudent to pafs over without correction, a fault 
once taken notice of ; while by this method, an 
appearance of authority and discipline is kept 
up, without the feverity of it. Quafhi there- 
fore withdrew, refolved to fhelter himfelf, and 
jfave the glofly honours of his {kin, under fa- 
vour of this cuttom, till he had an opportunity of 
applying, to an advocate. He lurked among his 
matter's negroe huts, and his fellow flaves had 
too much honour, and too great a regard for 
him, to betray to their matter the place of his 
retreat. Indeed, it is hardly pofiible in any cafe, 
to get one flave to inform "againft another, fo 
much more honour have they than Europeans of 
low condition. 

The following day a feaft was kept, on ac- 
count of his matter's nephew then coming of 
age \ amidft the good humour of which, Quafhi 

hoped 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 21$ 

hoped to fucceed in his application ; but before 
he could execute his defign, perhaps juft as he 
was fetting out to go and folicit this mediation, 
his matter, while walking about his fields, fell 
in with him. Quaihi, on difcovering him, ran 
off, and the mailer, who is a robufl man, pur- 
fued him. A (lone, or a clod, tripped Quafhi 
up, juft as the other reached out his hand to 
feize him. They fell together, and wreftled 
for the mattery, for Quafhi alfo was a ftout 
man, and the elevation of his mind added vi- 
gour to his arm. At laft, after a fevere ftruggle, 
in which each had been feveral times uppermoft, 
Quafhi got firmly feated on his matter's breaft, 
now panting and out of breath, and with his 
weight, his thighs, and one hand, fecured him 
motionlefs. He then drew out a fharp knife, 
and while the other lay in dreadful expectation, 
helplefs, and ihrinking into himfelf, he thus ad- 
drefled him. " Matter, I was bred up with you 
" from a child ; I was your play-mate when a 
"•boy; I have loved you as myfelf; your in- 
" tereft has been my ftudy ; I am innocent of 
c * the caufe of your fufpicion ; had I been 
** guilty, my attachment to you might have 
(i pleaded for me. Yet you have condemned 
" me to a punittiment, of which I mutt ever 
w have borne the difgraceful marks; thus only 
" can I avoid them." With thefe words, he 

drew the knife with all his flrength acrofs his 

own 



2l6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

own throat, and fell down dead without a groan, 
on his matter, bathing him in his blood. 

Had this man been properly educated ; had 
he been taught his importance as a member of 
fociety ; had he been accuftomed to weigh his 
claim to, and enjoy the poffeflion of the un- 
alienable rights of humanity; can any man 
fuppofe him incapable of making a progrefs in 
the knowledge of religion, in the refearches of 
reafon, or the works of art ? Or can it be af- 
firmed, that a man, who amidft the difadvan- 
tages, and gloom of flavery, had attained a re- 
finement of fentiment, to which language can- 
not give a name, which leaves the bulk of po- 
lifhed fociety far behind, could want abilities to 
acquire arts and fciences, which we too often 
find coupled with a fawning, a mean, a flavifh 
fpirit ? Others may, I will not believe it. 

This is a truly mournful inftance of a noble- 
nefs and grandeur of mind in a negroe. The 
following, though allied to diftrefs, is of a lefs 
awful nature, but will fhew, that all the nobler 
qualities of the heart are not monopolized by 
the white race. 

Jofeph Rachel was a black trader in Barba- 
does ; he dealt chiefly in the retail way, and 
was fo fair and complaifant in bufinefs, that in a 

town 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES, 2 1 7 

town filled with little peddling {hops, his doors 
were thronged with cuftomers. I have often 
dealt with him, and found him remarkably honed 
and obliging". If any one knew not where to 
procure an article, Jofeph would be at pains to 
fearch it out, to fupply him, without making an 
advantage of it. . In fhort, his character was fo 
fair, his manners fo generous, that the beft peo- 
.pie (hewed him a regard, which they often deny 
men of their own colour, becaufe not hleffed 
with like goodnefs of heart. 

In i 756 a fire happened, which burned down 
great part of the town, and ruined many of the 
inhabitants. Jofeph luckily lived in a quarter 
that efcaped the definition, and exprefled his 
thankfulnefs, by foftening the diftrefTes of his 
neighbours. Among thofe who had loft their all 
by this heavy misfortune, was a man to whofe 
family Jofeph, in the early part of life, owed 
fome obligations. This man, by too great -hof- 
pitality, an excefs common enough in the Weft- 
Indies, had involved his affairs, before the fire 
happened, and his eftate lying in houfes, that 
event intirely ruined him ; he efcaping with only 
the clothes on his back. Amidft the cries of 
mifery and want, which excited Jofeph's compaf- 
fion, this man's unfortunate fituation claimed 
particular notice. The generous, the open tem- 
per of the fufferer, the obligations that Jofeph 
had to his family, were fpeciai and powerful 

L motives 



Sl8 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

motives for acYmg towards him the friendly 
part. 

Jofeph held his bond for fixty pounds fterling. 
" Unfortunate man," fays he, " this (hall 
" never come againft thee. Would heaven thou 
" could fettle all thy other matters as eafily ! 
'" But how am I fure that I fhall keep in this 
"mind: may not the love of gain, efpecially, 
** when, by length of time, thy misfortune has 
" become familiar to me, return with too ftrong 
ce a current, and bear down my fellow-feeling 
" before it ? But for this I have a remedy. 
" Never fhalt thou apply for the afliftance of 
'" any friend againit my avarice." He got up, 
ordered a current account that the man had with 
him, to a confiderable amount, to be drawn out, 
and in a whim, that might have called up a fmile 
-on the face of charity, filled his pipe, fat down 
£gain, twifted the bond, and lighted his pipe 
with it. While the account was drawing out, 
he continued fmoking, in a flare of mind that a 
monarch might envy. When finifhed, he went 
in fearch of his friend, with the account dif- 
charged, and the mutilated bond in his hand. 
On meeting with him, he prefented the papers 
to him with this addrefs. " Sir, I am fenfibly 
6< affected with your misfortunes ; the obligati- 
i( ons that I have received from your family, give 
" me a relation to every branch of it. I know 
te that your inability to fatisfy for what. you owe, 

" gives 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 21^ 

" gives you more uneafinefs than the lofs of 



" your own fubflance. That you may not be 
" anxious on my account in particular, accept 
" of this difcharge, and the remains of your 
" bond. I am over-paid in the fatisfaction that 
" I feel, from having done my duty. I beg 
" you to conflder this only as a token of the 
** happinefs that you will impart to me, when- 
*' ever you put it in my power to do you a good 
" office." One may eafily guefs at the man's 
feelings, on being thus gen?rouily treated, and 
how much his mind muft have been ftrengthened 
to bear up againft his misfortunes. Iknew him 
a few years after this ; he had got a fmall poit 
in one of the forts, and preferved a decent ap- 
pearance. 

But his hofpitable turn continued even after 
be had loft the means of indulging it. He has 
often invited five or fix acquaintances, or 
ftrangers, to fpend the evening when he has not 
had even a candle to light up betore them. 
Whenever his fervant faw him come home thus 
attended, and heard him call away, as in his 
better days, his refource was to run over to 
Jofeph, and inform him that fuch and fuch gen- 
tlemen were to fup with his mafter. Immedi- 
ately the fpermaceti candle, and punch, and 
wine of the beft quality were on the table, as 
if by magic ; and foon after Jofeph's fervants 
appeared, bringing in a neat fupper, and wait- 

L 2 ing 



220 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ing on the company. All this was done without 
a profpe£t of return, purely to indulge his gra- 
titude, and fupport his friend's credit. And 
will any man pretend to look down with con- 
tempt on one capable of fuch generofity, becaufe 
the colour of his fkin is black r 

Some readers, perhaps, may give Jofeph 
-more credit for the following ftory. A colonel 

. — — , a moft penurious mifer, ufed to call 

frequently at Jofeph's fhop, on pretence of 
cheapening cocoa : he was always fure to carry 
away as much for a tafte as his pocket would 
hold, but never bought any. Jofeph, at firft, 
was at a lofs what to do. He knew, that, being 
a negro, his evidence would not be taken in 
court, even for the value of a penny againft a 
white man. But the colonel continuing his 
depredations, he was loth to fee his cocoa di- 
minifh daily before liim without any thing in 
return for it. He therefore hired a white man 
for clerk, and ordered him to weigh out a bag 
of cocoa, and keep it particularly under his own 
care, to fupply the colonel with tattings when- 
ever he mould call. The colonel foon emptied 
the bag, and then Jofeph delivered in his ac- 
count. The colonel ftormed, fwore, and threat- 
ened till out of breath, when Jofeph took the 
opportunity of informing his honour of the fteps 
he had taken. His avarice now alarmed him 
with the expences of a law-fuit : and fuggefled 

that 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 221 

that being fo fairly taken in, there was nothing 
to be done, in prudence, but to pay the money 
peaceably. By this innocent ftratagem Jofeph 
got rid of the colonel's tailing viflts. 

I mall only give one more inflance in favour 
of the negroes ; though a volume might eafily 
be filled. A lieutenant of a regiment in garrifon 
at St. Chriftopher's died, and left his fon an> 
orphan. A particular family had promifed hinv 
on his death-bed, to take care of his boy ; but 
he was wholly abandoned, and forced to keep 
among the negroe children, and live on fucli 
fcraps as he could find. In this ftate, he 
caught that loathfome difeafe the yaws, which 
became a new reafon for giving him up to his 
fate. In this ulcerated condition, Babay, a 
poor negrefs, found him, took him into her 
hut, got him cured, and maintained him till 
he was able to work for himfelf. The firft 
money that he earned went to purchafe her 
freedom. He took her home to his houfe,. 
and, as long as fhe lived afterwards, which 
might be upwards of forty years, treated her 
with the moft refpectful kindnefs. He gave 
her a mod expenfive burial, and had a funeral 
fermon preached over her.^ As that fermon was 
delivered before people acquainted with her 
character, and mentioned fuch circumftances as 
I wifh here to remark, I (hall give an extract 
of what was addrefled to the (laves that attended, 

relating 



,222 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

relating to her. " This good woman was like 
" many of you, a flave ; and, as fuch, la- 
(< boured under every difadvantage which you 
<c can plead for not doing your duty ; yet, in 
C6 this fituation, (he fhewed, in her conduct, 
" the nobleft fruit of religion, charity. A 
'- helplefs child, left an orphan, in a flrange 
(C country, far from any relation or even ac- 
" quaintance to his family, abandoned by thofe 
" who undertook to rear him, from her alone 
" could raife pity, or engage attention. When 
" left, by all of his own rank and colour, to 
i( perifh in a loathfome difeafe, though fbn to 
" a fervant of the public, with whom every 
" true lover of his country fhould have fympa- 
fX thized, fhe r alone, lodged him* nurfed him 
'^carefully, got him cured, and put him in a 
" way to provide for himfelf. This inftance 
" of generofity, found in one of her condition, 
" is a proof that noble and diiinterefted actions 
** are not, as many think, 'confined to advan- 
" tages of birth or education ; for fhe had 
€C nothing to direct her hut God's grace working 
(< on a tractable heart : and this benevolent 
" temper fhewed itfelf in every part of her 
" behaviour through life, and was accompanied 
" in her with a true fenfe of religion. She 
11 was well acquainted with what fhe ought to 
M know and believe ; and always fpoke of 
" religion with an earneflnefs, and ferioufnefs, 
" and knowledge, which I wifh were more 

6f general 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. Zly 

iC general than I have found it among thofe 
** who efteem themfelves her betters. Here 
" then is a mining example of goodnefs, on 
•* your own level, for your imitation. ,? * 

* The following thoughts have been communicated lately 
to the author by a humane intelligent Tea officer, who, in his- 
command on foreign (tations, did not think he went out of 
his line by pleading and promoting the caufe of humanity. 
They are particularly pertinent in this place to prove Africans- 
proper objects of improvement and police. 

" I have talked, I have written ; I have often blufhed for 
" the unnatural tyranny exercifed in our Weft Indian Iiles f 
" where Protectants even exceed Papifts in barbarity to th>? 
" unfortunate flaves that have become their purchafed pro- 
" perty. Particularly, I have, in the warmeft manner, re- 
** commended their imitation of the Roman Catholics in 
"bellowing baptifm on their flaves, . infoicing my argument. 
11 from this confideration ;V "-You acknowledge the Christian 
" path, in which you walk, to lead to a happy future Hate ; 
" how can you then, as men or Chriftians, rerufe that to your 
" flaves, which you helieve will intitle them to falvation r" 
" I cannot boaft of the imprelrions that thtfe arguments made 
" in our Weftern Archipelago. But, finding the planters in 
" the colonies adjoining to Spanifli fcttlements, complaining 
" that their flaves were daily deferting from them, I thought I 
u had found an argument to urge intirely in their own way •" 
" Your flaves deftrt to the Spaniard?, becaule they grant them 
" greater privileges than you do, and make Chriftians of them. 
*' Ufe. you the fame methods, and they will not think of 
" leaving you." 

" The negroes along the fca-coaft of Africa (particularly 
" among the French) are well-informed, eafy, kind, generous, 
" and have a better fenfe of right and wrong than any other 
" people I have ever vifited. I was thrown among them in a 
" (late of wretchednefs and ficknefs, with feventy-feven dying 
" men, being abandoned by our own people, who refufed me 
(,r afllftance and medicines. I caft myftlf on the chatity of 

" f*vag£s, 



224- ON THE TREATMENT AND 

* 4 favages, and received more inftances of compaflion and 
44 goodnefs from them than from all the Chriftians I have etfer 
44 known. From this exemplary benignity in this people, 
*' who are inhabitants about Cape Verd, may be collected the 
" probability of introducing freedom and Chriftianity among 
44 them." 

44 On the fouthern continent of Africa the natives are well 
44 informed, well clad, dwell in fuperb houfes, -abound in 
44 cattle and other poffeflions. Some Portuguefe are fettled 
44 among them, but, I believe, they draw their knowledge, 
*' merchandize, and grandeur from their communication with 
44 Mozambique, Arabia, and Egypt. The places I chiefly 
" refer to, are Paulo Loando and St. Philip de Buenfala." 



CHAP, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 22£ 



CHAP. V. 

Plan for the Improvement and Converjion 
of African Slaves. 



X HAVE now gone through the feveral prelimi- 
nary articles that refpecl flaves in our fuglar co- 
lonies. I have defcribed their condition at prefent. 
I have (hewn that there would be good policy and 
much profit, both to the {late and the mafter 9 . 
in advancing it ; that this advancement muft go 
hand in hand with their inftru&ion in religion ;. 
and, again, that inflru&ion is neceffary to make 
them good and ufeful fubjefifo, I have vindi- 
cated fdr them the natural equality and common 
origin of mankind. I have claimed, as their 
due, the attention of government. Ihaveenr 
deavoured to interefl humanity, policy, and re- 
ligion in their favour. It only remains to 
point out the method in which thefe mould co- 
perate for their advantage. That which I am 
now to offer, I propofe not as the bed poflible, 
but as the mod practicable method, having re- 
fpecl: to the felfifhnefs and prejudices of the a^e, 
Were government and people once well awaken- 
ed to their own interefl;, and heartily inclined, 
L 5 fomething 



226 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

fomething much more promifing might be 
ftruck out. The chief advantages of the fol- 
lowing plan is, that it may be fet on foot by go- 
vernment, without depending on the caprice of 
individuals, or afTecYing their intereft ; that it 
will be graduaL in. its operation, and therefore 
more likely to accommodate itfelf to the ordi- 
nary courfe of human affairs. At the worft, it 
adds only one more to the many Utopian fchemes 
that volunteer reformers produce for the benefit 
of the heedlefs public. Should it ever be found 
as impracticable in itfelf, as it is in refpe£t of 
me, it may lead fome more happy man to a 
fcheme both practicable and fuccefsfuL In the 
mean time it may contribute to foften their pre- 
fent treatment ; and it will be a teftimony of 
the author's affection to the caufe of humanity,, 
religion, and his country. The event mud be: 
left to Providence. It will be adapted to the 
ftate of a particular colony ; but may eafily be 
accommodated to others. I (hall only premife, 
that the feveral hints occafionally given in the 
courfe of the work, and what has been fug- 
gefted in the cafe of particular plantations, 
chap, Ilf. feet. V. is offered to every other 
owner of flaves,, as far as circumffances will 
permit. 



SECT. 



\ 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 227 



SECT. I. 

Eftablijhment of Clergy \ and their Duty 
among Slaves. 

THE ifland of St. Chriftopher's, of which 
we particularly treat, is divided into nine, pa- 
rifhes, and is, at prefent, fupplied by five mi- 
nisters ; the emoluments of two pariih.es being 
barely fufficient for the decent fupport of a fa- 
mily, without fuppofing any provifion made 
for a widow and children. But, to carry 
on .our plan of reformation among flaves ; 
nay,, indeed for, the due ftspport of an efta- 
blifhed religion among the white inhabitants^ 
it would be necefTary that each parim mould 
have its own incumbent. This would give the 
proportion of one minifler to about 3000 inha- 
bitants ; but it would require the provifion al- 
lotted for their maintenance to be increafed. 
Of this provifion I mall not at prefent treat ; 
though, whenever it becomes an object of po- 
lice, it will be eafy to propofe a fund for their 
decent maintenance without any fenfible new ex- 
pence to government or people, and chiefly by 
changing the mode of certain prefent impofts, 
In the proportion here fuggefted, many pariih.es, 
efpecially in Jamaica, would require to be di- 
vided > but the minifters could eafily and pro- 
fitably 



228 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

fitably for the colony be provided for there by 
allotments of unappropriated funds. * 



I would propofe alio a fchool. to be efta- 
blifhed in each parifh ; the fchool-mafler to be 
under the minifter's direction, and to aflift in in- 
{trucking and bringing forward the young chil- 
dren. A houfe, the place of parifh clerk, and 
fome other fmall appointment, with the benefit 
of fcholars, would always procure decent men 
for the office, t 

Suppofe 



* Barbadbes contains eleven parifhes, each with itsminifter; 
the town parilh has alto a fixed curate. In Antigua there 
are fix parities, and fix minifters. In. Montferrat there are four 
parHhcs, and two minifters. In Nevis five parifhes, and three 
minifters. In Grenada there are ufually two minifters without 
appointments ; it is the fame in Dominica. In St. Vincent's 
there are two minifters,. and very fmall appointments. In 
Tortola there is no fixed minifter. In Anguilla the minifterhas 
been long dumb for want of a maintenance, In Jamaica there 
are nineteen parifhes, fome of them as large as the whole 
Leward Infiand government, and fome of them without church 
or minifter 

4* Indeed a very fmall proportion of thofe immenfe fums that 
are thrown away under pretence of educating their children in 
England, would procure men properly qualified tp fettle in thefe 
fchools in the iflands, which would not only fave to the parents 
much nee die fs expence, but alfo preferve the morals of the 
youth, and train them up to be ufeful to themfelves and. fa- 
milies. A young Weft-IndiaD, configned to a fugar-fadlor to 
be educated at a diftance from his father, foon begins to know 
no other relationfhip between him and his parent, than that of 
banker. He makes expenfive connections, acquires habits of 

diflipation. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 22 g 

Suppofe then a proper number of fober, 
pious minifters fettled in the colonies, each in 
his own cure, and employed in the duties of his 
function, fupported by government, and en- 
couraged by good men. Let the minifter, 
every Sunday, perform the ufual morning fer- 
vice to his white parifhioners, and fuch fenfible 
negroes as can attend ; in the afternoon let the 
fervice be adapted to the negroes. Xnftead of 
a common fermon, let him explain to them, in 
courfe, a chapter of the New Teftament, 
making them intimately acquainted with the 
million and hiftory of our Saviour, and our re- 
lation to him, as the immediate Creator, Head, 
and Redeemer of the world. Let the clergy- 
man frequently give a fhort expofition of the 
apoftle's creed, in eafy terms, and explain the 
ten commandments in words adapted to their 
capacity. 

Let the minifters jointly compofe forms of 
devotion, fome to be ufed in private by the ne- 
groes, others for their field morning and even- 
ing prayers, and others, more comprehenfive, 

diffipation,' is never made to feel his own weight, and feldom 
learns to turn out ufefully in life. Where parents have not the 
vanity or are not in circumftances to fend them to England, 
but content themfelves with giving them an ufeful education 
near them, Well-Indian children fhew that they want neither 
capacity nor application. 

to 



23O ON THE TREATMENT AND 

to be ufed by the whole gang on Sundays, in the 
plantation. Let them be drawn up fhorr, 
fimpie, inftructive, expreMive, of their rela- 
tion to God, to a Saviour, to fociety, and of 
the refpe£r. that a candidate for heaven owes to 
himfelf. Indeed it would be found a great ad- 
vantage in carrying on the. work, if the forms 
were compofed to ferve in ail the colonies gene- 
rally. Mailers mould be exhorted to fend, at 
convenient times, their motf fenfible flaves to 
the miniiler, to be inftru&ed in thefe forms, 
that they may teach the reft, and take the lead 
in the plantation evening and morning devotions., 
If the mafter, manager, or ovedeer, were con- 
stantly to lead their Sunday plantation devotions, 
it would have an excellent efTecl:. Negroes* 
who are well treated and in fpirits, ling a£ 
work. A few eafy Tingle ftanzas might be col- 
lected or compofed, to be ufed inflead of their 
common fongs. In every thing drawn up for 
them, the exprefiion fhould be (imple, and the 
meaning obvious. 

Let the miniiler vifit the plantations in rota- 
tion, at convenient times, to inquire into the 
behaviour and improvement of the flaves, to 
commend, reprove, admonith, and pray with 
them. To give him refpe£t and influence, let 
all be obliged to appear before him decently 
clothed. 

Let 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2$l 

Let him pay a particular attention to chil- 
dren ; that while the ; .r minds are lender, before 
their difpofttioris be fourcd by the impactions of 
flavery, they may make feme pfogrefs in the 
knowledge of their duty. ■ As they may be bet- 
ter, fpared from plantation work than the reft 5 
they may attend on the minifter on particular 
week days for inftruction. 

In common cafes, no culprit fhould be pu- 
nifhed by the mailer, who can find <* fir.fible 
fober negroe to be furety for his good behaviour k 
but both furety and culprit mould be frequently 
admonifhed by the minifter of the nature of the 
engagement ; and this practice would :rive him 
many opportunities of imprinting on their minds 
the obligations of virtue, the claims of fociety, 
the difference between right and wrong. In 
fhort, one circumftance that has happened a- 
mong themfelves, properly dif cuffed before them 
and imprinted on their minds, will have a bet- 
ter and more lading effect than a thoufand dif- 
courfes on general good and evil. 

Wherever there is room for (hewing mercy, 
it fhould be done at the minifter's interceflion* 
that he may be confidered as a mediator between 
the flave on one fide, and the mailer and the 
law on the other. He mould never appear in 
any other light among them, than that of their 

inftru&QD 



$32 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

inftru&or and benefa&or, praying with them, 
interceding for them, or doing fome good office 
to them; that their efteem for his perfon, and 
gratitude for his kindnefs, may (land to them in 
place of a law, may produce in them a love for 
his doctrine, and be a pledge of their good be- 
haviour to the community. One caufe of the 
author's little fuccefs among his own flaves was, 
doubtlefs, the neceflity of mixing the autho- 
rity of the matter in domeflic matters, with the 
exhortations of the teacher; and the fuperior fuc- 
cefs of the Moravians may be accounted for, 
from their being feen by their fcholars, only in 
the benevolent light of inflru&ors. 

The minifters mould have monthly meetings 
at each other's houfes, to which well-difpofed 
gentlemen of the neighbourhood ihould be oc- 
cafionally invited : at thefe they might talk 
over their difficulties, their fuccefles, their plans. 
Every meafure mould be carefully difcufled be- 
fore carried into execution ; the plan of inftruc- 
tion fhould be uniform; the prayers, precepts, 
hymns, fhould all fpeak one language. And we 
might hope that the minifters, relieved by a de- 
cent prcvifion from worldly care, countenanced 
by government, refpected by good men, and en- 
couraged by each other in this good work, would 
foon find pleafure in it, and fee it profper in 
their hands* 

But 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 233 

But fome greater care mould be taken in the 
choice of perfons defigned for this labour, and 
of candidates fent over from the colonies for 
ordination, than has been hitherto ufual. It is 
now growing into a cuftom, in the Weft-Indies, 
for men that have diffipated their patrimony, to 
flee to the church as their laft refuge from po- 
verty, often with very {lender pretenfions re- 
fpe&ing education, and lefs refpecYmg decency 
of character. Yet, if any difr.in6r.ion were pro- 
per, the colonifts, even fetting afide this plan of 
the converfion of their ilaves, by reafon of their 
ufual careleflfnefs and diflipation, require a fu*- 
perior attention to the character of their paf- 
tors. Perhaps the fitted perfons that could be 
fent out would be difcreet curates from England, 
accuftomed to teaching, whofe hopes of pre- 
ferment are fmall, to whom thefe fettlements 
would be a defirabie advancement. The So- 
ciety for Propagating the Gofpel might have a 
committee to examine, felecl, and recommend 
them to the feveral governors. 



SECT. 



234 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

SECT. II. 

General Improvement of Slaves. 

I HAVE vindicated the natural capacity of 
African (laves, have laid before the reader their 
prefent condition, have proved that to advance 
them in religion and foci al life would profit both 
the public and their matters, and have propofed 
a plan for their inflruclion. We may now 
make this inference refpe&ing the ori- 
ginal defign of this work. Were the yoke 
of flavery made to fit more eafy on their 
necks ; were they taught to think more juflly 
of themfelves, more moderately of their maf- 
ters j, did their condition admit of the enjoy- 
ment of the common conveniencies of life; 
were thefe extended and fecured to them ; were 
their families and offspring to be confidered as 
their own, not wantonly to be torn from them 
at the caprice, or to pay for the extravagance 
of their tyrant; then would they be found ca- 
pable of arts that are ufeful in fociety here, 
and of extending their own views to futurity. 
Then, when they had become fenfible of their 
relation to God, would his religion, which we 
wifh to introduce, have a fair chance among 
them ; they would efteem themfelves more wor- 
thy of it, more nearly connected with it, more 
fbiclly obliged to inquire into its doctrines, 

and 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2$$ 

and conform their lives to its laws. Then, in 
refpect of intellect, would they be found equal 
to the people of any country. 

French flaves enjoy a great advantage for 
the admiflion of religion over Englifti flaves, 
in the familiarity that French manners permit 
them to live in with white people : an advan- 
tage that is increafed by the prefence of their 
owners, who generally live and converfe with 
them, fuperintend and partake with them in 
their labours, inftead of fubmitting them to 
hirelings ; many of whom, in fullen iilence, 
think of nothing but of extorting labour out 
of them, at the expence of health, life, and every 
human feeling ; and are, indeed, often obliged 
to do this to keep up the remittances, and pre- 
ferve their places. The above-mentioned cir- 
cumftances in the French iflands conceal the 
diltance between mafter and flave, make the 
diftin&ion eafier to the latter, and, by exciting 
equally their affection and ambition, pave the 
way for introducing among them the cufloms 
and religion of their matters. 

The difficulties which the French had to 
conquer in their firft. attempts to convert flaves 
cannot now be afcertained. But, long fince, 
cuftom and time have made the work eafy to 
them. Religion, as they teach it, places par- 
ticular merit in the work of converfion, which 

is- 



2$6 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

is a fpur to their piety. The Creole flaves 
know no other religion than Chriftianity. The 
new African {laves are gradually abforbed into 
the mafs. With the firft rudiments of a new lan- 
guage, they draw in the precepts of a religion 
that mixes itfelf with every mode of common 
life ; as foreigners are faid to learn Englifh, by 
the oaths and imprecations with which our 
tongue abounds. Thus they acquire the reli- 
gion gradually, with the cufloms of their new 
country, while attention and curiofity are ftrong 
on them, before they have been put to hard or 
difagreeable labour, to difguft them with the 
manners and worfhip of their matters. It muft 
be owned, indeed, that the Romifh mode of 
worfhip, confiding of pomp and ceremony, is 
better calculated to ftrike, at fir ft fight, the ima- 
gination of ignorant people, than our fimple 
ritual. A remark, that may explain the atten- 
tion which a very oppofite feci, the Moravians, 
pay to forms in managing favages, and the 
ftrefs that they lay on the defcription of our 
Saviour's fufferings and crucifixion ; as if it was 
neceflary for improving the mind, to make re- 
ligion a mechanic exercife, and draw piety as 
an object of fenfe. 

On the other hand, till the minds of our 
flaves be more enlightened, till their fituation be 
made more eafy, till they have a refuge againfl: 
the effe&s of the caprice, ignorance, cruelty, 

poverty 






CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 237 

poverty of their matters, till they think them- 
felves intitled to the protection of fociety, we 
cannot expect them to take their proper rank 
in the ftate, nor to make any confiderable pro* 
grefs in religious knowledge. At prefent they 
know and feel nothing of fociety, but the hard- 
mips and punilhments that it cruelly and capri- 
cioufly inflicts; they lie far beyond its care, and 
out of the circle of its comforts. And I believe 
it will be found that Chriftianity has feldom 
made any great progrefs, except where fociety 
was in an advanced ftate. Nor has it fup- 
ported itfelf, but in the polifhed parts of Eu- 
rope and America. And how, rationally fpeak- 
ing, can it happen otherwife ? A conformity 
with revealed religion fuppbfeth a conqueft over 
the felfifli paflions ; and unlefs we be firft ac- 
cuftomed to facrifice, in a certain degree, thefe 
paiTions, for the advantages of fociety, which 
come home to our immediate feelings, we mall 
hardly be willing to facrifice them for the hopes 
of religion. Indeed the benevolence or chanty, 
which is the corner-ftone of Chriftianity, is 
evidently a refinement on juftice, which is the 
bond of fociety. But, can we refine on a law 
that doth not exift ? As religion muft be built 
on a foundation of law ; fo, in refpect of prac- 
tice, it may be called the perfection of fociety : 
it brings futurity into the aid of law, and gives 
a moral fanction to the edi&s of authority. 
Could it find admittance among favages, it 

• would 



2$& ON THE TREATMENT AND 

would of neceflity polifh them, and introduce 
fociety among them. Modern philofophers 
and politicians, even while exerting their in- 
fluence to undermine its foundations, give reli- 
gion this teftimony : " Though too vulgar a 
<e fludy for a fine fpirit, and its precepts too 
** mean for his free fentiments, yet religion is 
" an excellent inftrument in the magiftrates 
" hands to make the mob harmlefs, fober, in- 
te duftrious, honefl, and obedient f." 



And conformably to this reafoning we find, 
it was in the cities, where fociety had improved 
the underftandtng, that the apoftles and their 
fellow -labourers chiefly made converts to Chrif- 
tianity. A Pagan or country clown, and an 
heathen or infidel, foon became equivalent 
terms. Different, indeed, is the cafe now, 
when our fine wits, (who, had they lived in the 

early 

-f There is at laft, indeed, one exception in the newly erect- 
ed dates of America : they have almoft generally declared 
againft an eftablifhed religion as a neceflary part of their con- 
ftitutions j the fuccefs cannot for forne time be known. 

The good effects of religion, in improving fociety, is nobly 
teftified in the fuccefs of the Moravians among the favages of 
Greenland : by gradually introducing Chrillianity and induf- 
try together, of felfrfh precipitate favages, they have made a 
band of provident, fober, ufeful, fympathifing brethren. Their 
progrefs there is the triumph of religion over ignorant un- 
affifted reafon. Yet our flaves are much more civilized than 
thefe originally were-, but liberty, nature's inheritance to man, 
more than compenfated to them the difference. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2$Q 

early ages of Chriftianity, merely for the cre- 
dit of their parts, would have been mod ortho- 
dox) are alhamed of the religion of their fathers; 
and, rather than profefs any religion in com- 
mon with mankind, will maintain the fillieft 
paradox, the rnoft degrading dogma. I wifh, 
indeed, we could fay, that good manners, and 
obedience to the laws, were not generally fent 
away with what they afTe£t to call bigotry : 
fo indiflblubly bound together are the charac- 
ters of a good citizen and pious man. 

In general the faculties of the mind mud be 
expanded to a certain degree, before religion 
will take root, or flourifh among a people; 
and a certain proportion of civil liberty is ne- 
ceflary, on which to found that expanfion of 
the mind, which moral or religious liberty 
requires.* By this afiertion 1 exclude not par- 
ticular inftances.; but fuch neither form nor 
confute general rules. To bring this home to the 
cafe of our fiaves : the great obfiacle to govern- 
ment 

* When Mofes led ihe children of Ifrael out of Egypt, he 
was under the necefilty of training them up to be an indepen- 
dent people, by multiplied forms and ftrift difcipline, for the 
fpace of forty years. And it is apparent, from their behaviour 
during thislong period, that flavery had (o thoroughly de- 
bafed their minds, as to have rendered them incapable of the 
exertions neceflary for their fettlement in the promifed land, 
till all thofe who had grown up as fkves in Egypt, had fallen 
in the wildemefs, .and laws and regulations worthy of a free 
people had taken place among them. This is a cafe full in 
point, and may fugged hints worthy of the legiflature. 



240 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

ment in bringing about this point, fetting afide 
its own careleflhefs in fuch things, is the alte- 
ration that it would at firft make in private 
property. This it is true we have in chap. 2, 
feci:. 3. fhewn to be more in appearance than 
in fa£t But fuch are our prejudices, that any 
law to improve the condition of our flaves, or 
to inftruft them in the principles of religion, 
would be too apt to be confidered as an en- 
croachment on their matters property, and 
an hinderance of their profit. 

Still allowing this prejudice its full operation, 
forhething confiderable might be done by par- 
liament, by colony legiflatures, by willing* 
confcientious matters. Expedients would offer 
themfelves, methods might be discovered, to 
advance the condition, and promote the religious 
interefts of flaves, and fave alfo, or even im- 
prove, their labour to their matters, and the 
ttate. Nay, the intereft of the ftate would ul- 
timately be advanced by every indulgence ex- 
tended to them. On the other hand, little can 
any other individuals attempt, and lefs can they 
effect, except to pray that the minds of our 
governors may be enlightened to fee the ho- 
nour and advantage of this undertaking. We 
come now to fuggeft fuch an advancement of 
their condition, as may lay the foundation of 
that improvement, in morality and religion, 
which is the object of this work. 

SECT. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 24I 

sect. in. 

Privileges granted^ and Police extended to 
Slaves. 

WE have obferved, that (laves are hardly in 
any inftance confidered as objects of police, be- 
ing abandoned to the management, or rather 
caprice, of their feveral matters. Nor doth law 
take notice of them, but to enforce power, 
which, without fuch afliiTartce, too frequently 
lays reafon and humanity bleeding at its feet. 
Our laws, indeed, as far as they refpecl: flaves, 
are only licenced modes of exercifing tyranny on 
them ; for ihey are not made parties to them, 
though their -lives and feelings be conclud- 
ed by them. As well may directions for an- 
gling be faid to be laws made for dumb fifh, 
as our colony regulations for whipping, hanging, 
crucifying, burning negroes, be called laws" 
made for flaves. To make them objects of 
civil government mull therefore be an effential 
part of every plan of improvement that refpe&s 
flaves ; fo that while obnoxious to the penalties 
of the law, they may be inrltled to its fecurity ; 
and white law leaves them under the management 
of a matter, it may protect them from his bar' 
harity. 

A judge fliould therefore be appointed to de- 
termine difputes of confequence between matter 
M and 



£42 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

and (lave, as in the French colonies.* The 
power of the mailer mould be reftrained with- 
in certain limits. He mould not be fuffered to 
maim, beat, or bruife wretches with a flick. 
To flit ears and nofes, to break legs, or caf- 
trate, f mould make a man infamous for ever, 
and, equally with the greater excommunica- 
tion, incapacitate him from being evidence, or 
taking inheritances ; and much more mould 
fuch cruelties mut the door againft; him from 
fitting in an aflembly, or council, as a legiflator. 
The fentiment of a gentleman, a native of St. 
Chriftopher's, pleafed me on this fubjeft. 
" Were a white fervant to behave to me as my 
fit flaves often do, I fhould be provoked to beat 
**' him moft unmercifully. But how can I ftrikc 
€i a wretch, who dare not flrike again, who has 
*< no law to which he may apply for fatisfa&ion 
*' for my excefs, who has none but myfelf to 
** look up to for protection againft my vio- 
*\ lence?" What pity is it, finee fociety interpofes 
mot, that fuch fentiments mould be uncommon ? 

* If it be objc&ed that the appointment of a judge would 
encourage flaves to be running conftantly to him with com- 
plaints, and annihilate the matter's juft authority; the exam- 
ple of Athens formerly, and France now, maybe adduced in 
proof, that no fuch effects nectffarily follow. 

•f* The laft inftance of this enormity was, I believe, per- 
petrated by an Englilh furgeon in Granada. 

If 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 243 

If any (lave has been flagrantly ill treated by a 
mafler, the matter fhould have a mark of infamy^ 
as above, fixed on him, and the (lave fnould be 
made free without price : or, if he be unac- 
quainted with any trade by which he can earn 
his bread, he fhould be fold for the benefit of 
the public, at an eafy rate, to fome confiderate 
man. To make a Have free, who cannot earru 
an honed living, would be inhuman and impo- 
litic. It is letting loofe on fociety a thief in 
defpair. 

The marriages of {laves mould be put un- 
der fome better regulation than at prefent ; 
when a man may have what wives he pleafeth, 
and either of them may^break the yoke at their 
caprice. Nothing would more humanize flaves ? 
and improve their condition, than their acquir- 
ing a property in their wives and families, and 
having a reilraint laid on the promifciious in- 
tercourfe of the fexes. Marriage, or a family, 
is the embryo cf fociety ; it contains the prin- 
ciples, and feeds of every facial virtue. The 
care of a family would make them confiderate, 
fober, frugal, induflrious. An ambition to pro- 
mote the condition of their children, would 
fharpen and improve their talents. They would 
avoid every fault, or meannefs, that might hurt 
the intereft. or credit of fuch dear relatives ; 
even as in polifhed fociety, a man who is mar- 
ried, 



244 ON THE TREATMENT ANB 

ried, is generrally found a more ufeful and 
trufl-worthy ckizen, than he who continues 
fingle. * 

The min'fmum of a negroe's allowance for 
clothes and provifions mould be fettled bylaw. 
Slaves mould be allowed at leaff. Saturday after- 
noon, %s in Jamaica, for their own work, and 
to warn their clothes. Sunday mould be 
wholly their own, for the p urpofes of inftruc- 

tion, 

* I admire that policy of the Athenians, which allowed no 
unmarried man to hold any place in the magiftracy, army, or 
navy. They did not depend on bis fidelity to diftribute juftice, 
or defend the ftate, who had not given to the public a wife and 
children, as Aireties of his gqod behaviour. 

I mean not here to cenfure men, who, like Newton, pre- 
serve themfelves chafte and fingle, the more clofely to apply 
to theiludy of nature, or the intricacies of fcience. Neither 
the common good, nor moral rectitude, require the matter to 
be fo ftri&ly urged. Let the poet court his mufe, or the phi- 
lofopher hold dalliance with nature, or fport in the fields of li- 
terature ; we will not permit the cares of a family to interrupt 
his refearches, or difturb his amufement. Matrimony claims 
only thofe in each fex, who find themfelves drawn irrefiftibly 
to the other, and wifhes only to fancYify their commerce. No 
plea can be ufed for the celibacy of thofe who keep not them- 
felves chafte, There is a forry felfifhnefs in their ftealing all 
that they value in the (late, and leaving the cares to others. 
For they muft acknowledge, that in every community a cer- 
tain proportion muft marry ; and if it be a burden, why are 
they exempt ? Not but if this were the place to prove it, 
marriage might be (hewn to be, generally fpeaking, the only 
rational foundation for focial happiaefs, and the ttate the Cud 
of nature appointed for man. 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 245 

tion, and reft from labour. Their little pro- 
perties mould be fecured to them; their families 
mould not be torn from them. All planta- 
tion (laves, as at prefent is the cuflom in An- 
tigua, mould be confidered as fixed to the free- 
hold, that they may not be fold, or carried 
away wantonly at pleafure. It would then be 
the next natural Hep, to talk them as pro- 
pofed in note, page 110, and fuffer them, by 
their extra labour, to work out their freedom.; 
flill taking care to keep as many of them at- 
tached to the foil, as might be wanted to carry 
on the ftaple manufactures of the colonies as 
day labourers. 

Thefe regulations would lay a foundation 
for that far diftant view which we take of this 
fubjeel: ; the time when liberty mail claim every 
exiled African for her own child. Their being 
connected with the foil, will draw after it cer- 
tain perfpnal rights, and ail the claims of a fa- 
mily. Having once taiks afligned them, wages 
will follow, and the bargain become mutual and 
equal between the employer and employed*. 
If, on account of ill behaviour, or any parti- 
cular caufe, a mafler be under the neceflity of 
M 3 parting 

* One infeparable confequence of the communication of the 
leajl degree of liberty ©r privilege to flaves, would be a deGrc 
to be baptized, and to be confidered as Chriftians ; for this 
they think fecures the .poiTcflion of it to them. And much 
good might be done towards their in(tru£Vion, by making a 
proper advantage of this bias to the religion of their mailers. 



246 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

parting with a plantation flave, or baniming 
him, let it be done with the approbation of the 
judge; and let the tranfa£tion, with the reafon 
afligned, be regiftered. In like manner mould 
every decree given by the judge be regiftered. 

To improve their minds, the (laves mould 
be accuftomed to determine, as jurors, on the 
behaviour of each other. This would infenfibly 
lead them to diilinguifh between vice and virtue. 
What rendered the Grecian and Roman mobs 
(for their atTemblies were no better) fo fuperior 
to the nations around them, but the privilege 
of being constituted judges bdth of public mea- 
sures and private caufes, and, as fuch, of being 
daily improved by the public orations of their 
lawyers and ftatefmen ? The frequent attendance 
on our courts of law, and as jurymen in the 
trial of caufes, which mod people in our little 
Colonies are obliged to give, except they bribe 
off their appearance, imparts a precifion and 
readinefs in thinking to the colonifts, that one 
(hall in vain look for in the mother country in 
the fame rank, on the fame fubjects. Yet 
they are often very unpolifhed beings, when 
Europe firft fends them out among us. 

Matters mould be encouraged to grant free- 
dom to fuch (laves as (hewed merit, and pro- 
mifed to make good ufe of it \ but they (houM 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 247 

be reftrained from turning off flaves when 
become incapable of labour, as is often done, 
under pretence of giving them freedom. All 
colony laws, ena&ed on the narrow principle of 
perfonal diilin&ion, to prevent or fetter manu- 
mifiion, mould be annulled ; fuch as thofe of 
Barbadoes "and Granada, that fix a heavy fine 
to the public on the matter who frees a flave. 
All mulattoes mould be fent out free, trained 
to fome trade or buiinefs, -at the age of thirty 
years. Children of mulattoe girls mould be 
free from their birth, or from the commence- 
ment of their mother's freedom. Intendants 
mould be appointed to fee them put in time to 
fuch trade or bufmefs, as may befl agree with 
their inclination, and the demands of the 
colony. This mould be done at the expence 
of their fathers, and a fufficient fum might be 
depofited in the hands of the church-wardens* 
foon after their birth, to anfwer the purpofe ° 9 
the intendant keeping the church-wardens to 
their duty. This cafe fuppofes the mother to 
be free. If a man has a mulattoe born to him 
by another man's negrefs, he mould pay to 
her owner eight pounds fterling, as foon as the 
child is weaned. It mould then be confidered 
as the mailer's child, to be fent out free as 
above. If the parent or matter has neglected 
to inuTUcl: them in fome ufeful calling, he mould 
be fined in an annuity equal to their main- 
tenance,, 

By 



248 ON THE TREATMENT AND 

By thefe means, the number of free citizens 
would infenfibly increafe in the colonies, and 
add to .their fecurity and ftrength. A new- 
rank of citizens, placed between the black and 
white races, would be eftablimed. They would 
naturally attach themfelves to the white race, 
as the more honourable relation, and fo become 
a barrier againfl: the defigns of the black. 
Nay, were the law extended to free every 
fenfible negrefs (and they are generally do- 
meftics, and fempftrefles) who fhould bring a 
mulattoe child by her matter, or any man 
worth as much as would repay her value to 
her mafter, I fee no ill confequences that could 
follow from the regulation. At leaft, if it 
checked this improper commerce between mafter 
and flave, it would promote legal, and more 
honourable connections with their own equals. 
Still thieves, and vagabond beggars, mould be 
excepted from every privilege, and be kept,- or 
reduced to flavery/ whenever difcovered ; and 
if this were the law, under certain reftri&ions, 
even in Britain, much wealth and happinefs 
would redound from it. 

On thefe outlines of fociety, viz. the indif- 

foluble tie of marriage, the claims of a family, 

the allowance of property, the afcertaining the 

hours and time of labour, or allotting it by 

-tafk; the fixing the minimum of maintenance 

and 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 249 

and clothing ; the adjudging them to the foil ; 
the making them arbiters of each other's con* 
du<5t ; the affigning them a protector or judge, 
to preferve their little privileges, and fecure 
them againft cruelty ; in fhort, on the vindi- 
cating for them the common rights of hu- 
manity, would we ere<St a plan, that fhould 
look forward to their gradual improvement, 
and extend, by flow but fure fteps, to the full 
participation of every focial privilege. Thus 
fecured from injury, thus partaking in the fruits 
of their own labour, they might be refigned to 
the care of the paftors that we have propofed 
for them, to be built up in holinefs, and the 
fear of God, and taught to look forward with 
refignation and hope, to a ftate where every 
hardmip, every inequality, infeparable from the 
lot of humanity, fhall be intirely removed, and 
fully compenfated. 



CONCLUSION. 

I HAVE now laid before the public what 
I fuppofed might bear the light ; not all I have 
thought, not all I have written on the fubjecl. 
In many points fentiment has ftruggled with the 
felfifhnefs of the age, and been obliged to fup- 
prefs many a generous wifh : the feelings of 
Benevolence have been forced to give way to the 
fu^geftions of narrow policy j and even a fenfe 

of 



25O ON THE TREATMENT AND 

of the public intereft has been made to yield to 
private prejudice. Yet if our flaves were once 
accuftomed to tafte only a few ot the Tweets of 
fociety, a Utile of the fecurity of being judged 
by' known laws, they would double their appli- 
cation to procure the comforts and conveniencies 
of life ; and, with their additional property, 
would naturally rife in their rank in fociety. 
Many, efpecially if our plan of working thern 
by talk were to take place, would, in time, be 
able to purchafe their own freedom. Their 
demands for manufactures would increafe, and 
extend our trade ; they would acquire a love 
for the country and government that mewed 
this attention to them. The labour of fuch a§ 
became free might, for fbme time, be regu- 
lated on the fame plan as that of labourers in 
England. Under the awe of, or rather aflifted 
by, a few regular troops, they might fafely be 
trufted with arms for the defence of themfelves, 
their families, their own, and patron's pro- 
perty. Then would the colonies enjoy a fecu- 
rity from foreign attacks that no protection 
from Europe can afford them. 

The minds of thefe, our fellow-creatures, 
that are now drowned in ignorance, being thus 
opened and improved, the pale of reafon would 
be enlarged ; Chriftianity would receive new 
(Irength ; liberty new fubje&s. The (lave 

trade, 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 25I 

trade, in its prefent form tne reproach of Bri- 
tain, and threatening to hallen its downfal, 
might be made to take a new fhape, and be- 
come ultimately a olefilng to thoufands of 
wretches, who, left in their native country, 
would have dragged out a lite of miferable ig- 
norance ; unknowing of the hand that framed 
them ; unconfcious of the reafon of which they 
were made capable ; and heedlefs of the hap- 
pinefs laid up in {lore for them.* 

Thus, by a timely interpofition of the legif- 
giflature, and a judicious attention to circum- 
flances, might Britain acquire a confiderable 
acceffion of ftrength, have its trade and taxes 
improved, and a large number of ufeful fellow- 
fubjects, that are now funk in mifery and bon- 
dage, made happy here, and capable of happi- 
nefs hereafter. And thefe are confederations 
that, furely, are fufficiently powerful to unite 
the worldling and politician, with the "pious 
faint and fin&ere Chriflian, to carry on the 
fcheme as one man, fince each would find his 
feparate account in it. Honour, profit, piety, 

all 

* This is on the fuppofJtion that the flave trade could be 
conduced without that violence and injustice to individual.*!, 
and enormous lofs of lives in the paffage from Africa, and, 
during the feafoning in the colonies, that now accompanies it. 
For the greateft benefit that can poflibly happen to a few 
cannot juftify us for endeavouring it by murder, by violence, 
bad air, and famine, in making the experiment. They 
mult offer themfclves willingly for the voyage, and be better 
accommodated and treated during the courfe of it. 



2$Z ON THE TREATMENT AND 

all join in the important requefT ; all folicit le 
have their claims to this benefit confidered. 

And what glory would it be to Britain, what 
an object: of emulation, to enlarge the benevo- 
lent plan of France and Spain, for improving 
the condition of their flaves ; and to open a way 
for the admiflion of reafon^ religion, liberty, 
and law among creatures of our kind, at prefent 
deprived of every advantage, of every privilege, 
which, as partakers of our common nature, 
they are capable of and"entitled to ! 

We have notorioufly and continually thruft 
ourfelves into the quarrels of others, and been 
lavifh of our blood and treafure for the protec- 
tion of ftrangers and the advancement of un- 
grateful rivals, whofe good-will, even in ap- 
pearance, we could retain no longer than 
while our affiftance was ufeful to them. But 
thefe miferable wretches live onlv, can live 
only, for our profit, for our luxury. They 
have no protector, no refuge to flee to ; and 
every penny laid out for their advantage 
would return with tenfold ufury to us. And 
Ihall we, from year to year, continue to fpend 
our riches and ftrength, in railing up thanklefs 
rival dates, and deny thefe unhappy beings a 
poor pittance of their own labour to make them 
a farther advantage and glory to us ? Forbid it, 
honour ; forbid it, juftice j forbid it, prudence ; 

forbid 



CONVERSION OF AFRICAN SLAVES. 2$% 

forbid it, humanity. What is here propofed 
may, poflibly, on trial, be found ineffectual, 
though I have good ground to think it would 
not. But, furely, were the feelings of huma- 
nity, the refearches of knowledge, and the ob- 
servations of experience, collected in the con- 
futation, they could not fail in producing fome 
plan capable of anfvvering the wifh of reafon, 
religion, liberty ; capable of fecuring thefe 
bleffings to Britain and her children. Reafon 
will not be backward in a work that is to pro- 
duce her advancement ; Liberty will think no 
conceflion great that is to extend her empire ; 
Piety will not reckon that expence exceflive 
that has the purchafe of fouls in view. Even 
felfifh Intereft will open her ears to the fug- 
geftions of accumulation. Slow methodical 
difcretion muft prefide over, and guide the gra- 
dually opening fcene. What unwearied ap- 
plication have the premiums offered for the 
difcovery of the longitude given rife to ? And 
what object more worthy of public encou- 
ragement than this, which propofes to recover 
to reafon, to utility, and happinefs, a multitude 
of human creatures drowned in ignorance and 
wretchednefs ? 

Though what is here written, if deemed 
worthy of notice, will certainly expofe the au- 
thor to much abufe from men, whofe wifhes 
and intereft, as they imagine them to tend, are 
N oppofed 



254 0N THE TREATMENT AND 

oppofed to all reformation ; yet, is he not fenfi- 
ble of having had any thing finifler, felfifh, 
or cenforious in view ; nor can he, in any ref- 
pect, be particularly benefited if the improve- 
ment were to take effect ? He has intended no 
flight or injury to individuals, or to any condi- 
tion or community of men, feparated from 
their oppofition to the unalienable rights of hu- 
man nature and the dictates of benevolence and 
religion. His confolation is, that a fimple love 
of truth, and a fincere defire to do good, alone 
excited him to the attempt, and that many 
pious and learned perfons thought it worthy 
the attention of the public. And after ferioufly 
reviewing the whole? he fees no objection to be 
offered beforehand, either againft the practica- 
bility, or expence of the plan, except the man- 
ners and prejudices of the age. On the con- 
trary, there are considerations to encourage both 
individuals and government to make the at- 
tempt ; arguments of Strength, not only to be 
drawn from topics of humanity, liberty, reli- 
gion, but alfo of fafety, conveniency, pofitive 
intereilj and profit, both public and private. 

Doubtlefs, in a fubject like this, where we 
muft be fatisfied with general accounts, pro- 
bable conjectures, and analogical reafoning, 
st perfon 'inclined to take the other fide may 
felect many things to be objected to, many 
to be contradicted. But, till fuch a man can, 

fimply 



CONVERSION OF, AFRICAN SLAVS S. 2<S 

Amply and generally freaking', vindicate on the 
fcore of religion, rp;^r'ality\ or/evtTV £ohcyji -the 
conduct, or rather I negligence of' government, 
with refpe£t to the fugar colonies ; till he can 
prove, that the diet, the clothing, the labour, 
the punifhments of 400,000 negroes, ought to 
be left entirely to the difcretion of their maf- 
ters ; till he can afSrm, that flaves have an 
adequate remedy, either in law, opinion, or 
intereft, as pracYifed or underftood among us, 
againft the parfimony, infenfibiltty, prejudices, 
meannefs, ignorance, fpite, and cruelty of their 
owners and overfeers ; till he can fhew, that the 
prefent (late of our flaves is the bed po£lble 
(late* both for them and their mailers, into 
which they can be put ; and that we had a 
right to ravifh. them from their country, 
to tranfport, and place them in our own ; till 
he can fhew it to be impojftble to make them 
real Chriflians, or to render them more ufeful 
members of the ftate than they are at prefent ; 
till he can fhew that xeafon is convinced, hu- 
manity pleafed, that liberty has no claim, and 
religion no wifh ; the juftice of our remarks 
mud remain eftablifhed, and the neceflity of that 
attention to the improvement of flaves, both as 
men and Chriflians, which is here enforced, 
muft remain unconfuted. 

May God, in his providence, in his goodnefs, 
efteem us a people worthy of a bleffing, fo 

vaiuaute 



256 ON f«E 'TREATMENT, &C. 

valuable and extenfive as the facial improve- 
ment* a«iid cdrivertmn' to* Chriftianity of our 
flaves would indifj>utab'ly be. In this prayer, 
every pious, humane, and confiderate reader 
will join with 

The Author. 



FINIS. 



\ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 06501 774 9 



W'Jm 










Imltff^mS 



