tCS, o£7#.36 »*•? 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/remarksuponplanf1831citi 



REMARKS 



UPON A PLAN FOR THE TOTAL 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY 



IN THE UNITED STATES. 



BY A CITIZEN OF NEW-YORK. 



NEW- YORK : 

FEINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY S. HOYT & CO. 
NO. 111. NASSAU-STREET. 



fey sOp.-?6 **> 









TOTAL ABOLITION 

OF 

SLAVERY IN THE UNITED STATES. 



An era is now approaching for the accomplishment of this im- 
portant object, which, from the nature of things, can never so 
conveniently occur again. The anticipated national fund of sur- 
plus revenue seems now to have become a subject of great con- 
sideration throughout the union, and the curtailment and distribution 
of it, a source of much excitement. The southern portion of the 
United states strenuously contend that the surplus revenue, raised 
through the instrumentality of the Tariff, after a sufficiency to 
defray the r penses of government, is unconstitutional, and mate- 
rially detrimental to them; they therefore formidably protest 
against it. The manufacturers, and other large classes of the 
north, finding the Tariff very beneficial, contend with equal zeal 
for its continuance. This subject has brought the two great 
southern and northern interests into an unfortunate collision, pro- 
ducing much agitation. 

According to the restrictive principles of foreign trade, injuriously 
operating upon us, it is difficult to say how far we are not obliged 
to keep up a counteracting policy, consistent with the dignity of our 
country, without being obliged to raise more revenue than is merely 
necessary for the expenses of government ; if this is unavoidable, 
it then becomes important to so dispose of the surplus revenue as 
may be least objectionable to all parties, and best calculated to 
allay the unhappy controversies existing in the country. An ap- 
propriation of it for the extinguishment of slavery, does appear to 



be one of the most fortunate and desirable remedies for this diffi- 
culty that could possibly have been thought of. The adoption of 
this measure would tend to sink the doctrine of Nullification, and 
put an end to the present angry discussion in our national councils 
respecting the Tariff, now creating strong sectional variances in the 
Union, injurious to our social compact, and highly derogatory to 
the dignity of our government. 

It is recommended that the surplus revenue should be applied to 
assist the states to purchase those slaves who are willing to be re- 
moved, at the expense, and under the superintending care of our 
government, to some eligible spot in Africa, their mother country, 
the land of their ancestors, with suitable provision for a comfort- 
able subsistence. This would be a wise and magnificent act 
of national humanity and benevolence unprecedented in the history 
of the world, at the same time expunging a most disgraceful stain 
upon the character of this country for holding upwards of 
2,000,000 of its fellow beings in bondage. 

It cannot be, in this enlightened age, that the slave can be kept 
ignorant of the sublime theory of liberty, when missionaries and 
other free agents are preaching and emblazoning to them all its 
poetical beauties, and attractions, under a pretence of religious 
duty ; but which is, by the bye, a most cruel, mistaken, and ill- 
timed charity, in their present vassalage. It only serves to embit- 
ter their feelings, adding to their unhappiness, by making them 
-discontented and rebellious, without furnishing any adequate relief. 

It cannot be possible, according to the immutable principles of 
human nature, when those fettered beings understand their natural 
rights, that they can be kept submissive and tranquil, in slavery. 
Most conclusive and melancholy proofs of this fact may be found 
in the late insurrections. They have dreadfully signalized their 
* vengeance with conflagration, bloodshed and murder. In their 
slaughter, whole families have been massacred, even to infant 
children. 



5 

This horrid fatality is only a prelude to the gathering of a more 
tremendous storm, threatening to burst forth with desolating fury. 
This frightful aspect may be the more fearfully dreaded, from the 
existing state of that miserable race, composing as they do, so large 
and formidable a portion of the population of the southern states. 
It is idle and hopeless for the slave holders ever again to rest in 
peace and contentment, until slavery is abolished. 

Let it be asked, what provokes the slave to such shocking deeds 1 
Is he fighting for that liberty which is an inheritance he received 
from the Creator 1 Is he struggling to break asunder those chains 
put upon him by the crafty devices of a more intelligent being 1 

If he sheds human blood for it, does he not, for pardon, suppli- 
cate heaven that sent him on earth upon equality with all others ] 
Is the slave but a reptile that he is to be immolated and trampled 
upon with impunity 1 Is he so worthless a being as to be entitled 
to no consideration 1 Does his color degrade him to be an abomin- 
ation to this land *? Are his cries for emancipation to pass unheeded 
by a nation flourishing under unparalelled blessings of providence — 
whose constitution declares equal rights to all men 1 Is he to be 
subjected to a restrained accountability to the God that made him, 
by the criminal avarice of a more wise and calculating fellow being 1 
What man can hesitate to acknowledge the culpability of this glo- 
rious republic, that boasts of its independence, its free institutions, 
its civil and religious liberty over all the nations of the earth, to be 
indifferent to the freedom of more than 2,000,000 of its people held 
in degrading servitude 1 It is but a mockery and parade of prin- 
ciple, revolting to the feelings of humanty. It is hoped a conscious- 
ness of such injustice will be awakened, and but one voice raised 
in its behalf, as from the thundering cannon's mouth, to rouse the 
soul of every true hearted American to action, from Maine to 
Florida. 

It is well ascertained that the employment of free labor — labor- 
saving implements of husbandry, and working cattle, which expe- 



rience, in all countries, has proved to be the best means of culti- 
vating the earth, shows that these poor creatures could well be set 
free, and spared from om soil, to compose a commnnity of them 
selves, in their our own country, there to remain happy and unmo- 
lested to the end of time. 

This country, while a British colony, induced its citizens to in- 
vest their capital in slaves, which necessarily become a part of the 
confederation, when our independence was achieved. It would 
now be a great hardship to take from them that property with- 
out giving a fair remuneration. How admirably then, does this 
plan present itself, of appropriating the surplus revenue for the 
extinguishment of slavery, securing additional prosperity, tranquil- 
lity and happiness to the planter, preserving good-fellowship, and 
harmony throughout the Union. 

Our last census shows there are more than 2,000,000 of slaves 
in the United States ; near 2,000,000 of those belong to Maryland, 
Virginia, Missouri, North Carolina, South- Carolina, Georgia, 
Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, Arkansas, 
and Florida, whose united free population amount only to 3,692,107. 
Showing* that the slaves constitute much more than one half of the 
whole number of that section of the country, where reside nearly 
all the opponents of the Tariff system, the principle source of sur- 
plus revenue, and who will receive almost exclusively the whole 
benefits of its distribution for this important object of general eman- 
cipation. 

The following non slave-holding states, v;z. Maine, Massachu- 
setts, New-Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, Connecticut, 
New-York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Ohio, Indiana, 
Illinois and Michigan, have a free population of more than 
7,000,000, and only about 6,790 slaves, which is less than one 
slave to a thousand free men. 

Estimating the whole number of slaves, for example, to ave- 
age 50 dollars each, would amount to 100,000,000 of dollars, al- 
though it will be hereafter seen that the planters can well afford to 
take less than one half of that sum. 



According to the secretary of the Treasury's report, our go- 
vernment can very conveniently, on the 3d of March, 1833, pay 
all the national debt ; then, if the present tariff should continue, 
there will be after paying 13,500,000 dollars for government ex- 
penses a surplus revenue of 16,500,000 dollars for the year 1833, 
which would purchase the whole number of slaves in less than six 
years, and pay the expenses of their colonization. But supposing 
the surplus revenue is diminished by reducing the tariff, about 
which there is so much anxiety, 4, 500,000 dollars and then 2,000, 
000 should be appropriated to meet exigences after paying actual 
government expenses, that would leave 10,000,000 to be annually 
applied for the abolition of slavery which would effect its object in 
about ten years. It is not at all improbable, however, but what 
this great act of national munificence from feelings of general phi- 
lanthrophy and motives of good policy among the States, who 
will be disposed to make great sacrifices, might be accomplished for 
one half, and perhaps less than the above estimate, if so, it would 
allow of a further salutary reduction of the tariff, without imped- 
ing the progress of abolition and colonization of all the colored 
people. 

It cannot be reasonably supposed that the slave-holders could 
object to this proposition, when it is very evident that they would 
not only be much happier but much enriched by acquiescing in it 
and could well afford to sell their slaves at a very low price, not- 
withstanding they may hold them very high. Allow, for example, 
each plantation to average 150 slaves, and the expenses of their 
maintenance annually to be 6,300 dollars to which add 1,350 dol- 
lars/the annual interest at six per cent on the whole amount of 150 
Blaves, valued at 150 dollars each, making 7,650 dollars, being the 
total amount of the annual expenses of slave cultivation. Free 
labor — labor-saving implements of husbandry and working cattle 
employed to do the work of 150 slaves, in the ordinary mode of 
agriculture including all expenses, would only amount annually to 



8 

1,800 dollars, exclusive of 450 dollars, (being the annual interest 
on 7,500 dollars which the government pays the planter for every 
150 slaves,) clearly showing that the planter makes an annual 
saving by substituting free for slave culture, of six thousand three 
hundred dollars, independent of all the profit of his plantation. With 
the ratio of 150 slaves to the plantation, and allowing only 13,500 
plantations, there would be an annual aggregate gain to the whole 
southern planters, exclusive of all the additional profits arising from 
the products of their lands 85,050,000 dollars. The planter, to be 
convinced of the utility of agreeing to the proposed measure or a 
modified one from government, need but refer to the condition of 
the British West India colonies for valuable information. They 
are in the most deplorable situation imaginable in relation to their 
slaves. The writer can speak from experience upon this subject, 
having recently resided in the colonies between two and three 
years, and availed himself of the opportunity to be informed as to 
the positive and relative situation of the slave, and also the plant- 
er, and comparing the two together it was a matter of considerable 
contrariety of opinion, which was the most to be commisserated. 
Religious incendiaries of sedition are sent among them with mis- 
sionarial functions to rouse the slave to an independent exercise of 
what they preach to them to be, their natural rights. This poisons 
their minds against their masters and makes them savage for re- 
venge, hence follow insurrections upon insurrections, with a wan- 
ton sacrifice of lives and property until the planter scarcely knows 
when he lays his head down to rest, but that his repose may end in 
death. 

The writer frequently suggested to the planters the great advan- 
tage of using labor-saving utensils of agriculture, and working cat- 
tle instead of so many slaves, which was always admitted, but the 
answer invariably was, that as their was a constant fear that parlia- 
ment would liberate them, they could not sell them, and as they 
were obliged to keep and maintain them, they must keep them 



9 

employed in the usual way, although at a ruinous expense* 

Not long since, the British Colonies (particularly,) were very 
flourishing ; their products were profitable, and their slaves very 
valuable ; but now, the colonies are languishing, the produce pro- 
fitless ; and the slaves, a burthen upon the olanter, and what is the 
reason ? Other regions by economical free labor can supply Eng- 
land's demands with similar produce, at less prices than the slave 
colonies ; and British Legislation has threatened general emancipa- 
tion to the slaves, which renders them valueless. The planters 
are constantly petitioning parliament for redress and earnestly 
praying, that as the government originally induced them to purchase 
the slaves, it would not now take from them that property, to their 
utter ruin, without giving them a reasonable compensation. 
Those prayers have not yet been attended to, and with Great Bri- 
tain's embarrassments of upwards of 4,000,000,000 dollars of pub- 
lie debt, and an annual tax of 242,622,484 dollars, it is not proba- 
ble those prayers will ever be granted. The planters further zea- 
lously petition, that, as the slaves constitute such an overwhelming 
majority of their population, if they should be set free in the colo- 
nies, from their utter ignorance of all moral obligations to observe 
a social compact of society, they would become brigands and ma-' 
rauders of such total insubordinate character as to render it neces- 
sary for the planters to abandon their estates and quit the colonies 
for safety. They further petition that parliament will deliberate 
wisely and temperately upon this subject and not rashly jeopardize 
the very existence and well being of their colonial possessions. 
This is truly the wretched situation of the colonial planters, and 
with truth it may be said, the present generation do not deserve the 
sacrifice that threatens them. The government, at a former period* 
from a want of consciousness of the crime they were then com-* 
mitting, authorised and encouraged the ancestors to import the 
Africans for the sake of their labor in cultivating the West India 
plantations. Is it not then an unpardonable act of cruelty to so se* 



10 

verely punish the innocent descendants for the sins of their forefa- 
thers 1 

When the Avriter visited England from the colonies, he was con- 
stantly astonished to find the Wilberforceans, or saints, as they 
were called, influenced by the wildest enthusiasm upon the sublime 
theory of liberty ; urging immediate emancipation of the slave, and 
yet totally uninformed as to its destructive consequences to their 
future welfare, in their present uneducated condition, without some 
provision being made to so enlighten them that they may be ena- 
bled to estimate religious obligations and distinguish between right 
and wrong ; otherwise it would be indispensable to have strong 
military posts and constant martial law to preserve order, and pre- 
vent a murderous anarchy and lawless confusion. It is not antici- 
pated that this state of things could ever be consummated in the 
United States ; but it may afford a very salutary lesson in guiding 
our consideration of similar occurrences that may take place. 

From late melancholy experience the Virginians have become 
panic struck at a continued system of slavery and under the most 
frightful forebodings of a dreadful destiny last approaching, have 
imploringly petitioned for legislative aid to save them from the im- 
pending danger. 

The Virginia memorialists hold three propositions to be fully 
proved — first, " that the labor of the slaves is the most expensive 
that can be used ;" — secondly, " that slavery tends to lay waste 
the region in which it subsists ;" — and thirdly, " that it fills with 
apprehension and inquietude the bosoms of those who employ it." 
They then ask, " is not this literally and mournfully true V 3 They 
further pray that " a sense of the common interest, a love of 
peace, the sentiment of security for all that is dear to the heart of 
social man, combine to adjure Virginians to make a great, a becom- 
ing sacrifice to deliver their soil from an evil, serious now, terrible 
in prospect." They furthei|hold the following language. " It is 
most clear, then, that the public interest and the safety of individu- 



11 

als call aloud for energetic but prudent measures, having for their 
objects the ultimate extinction of involuntary servitude, and the 
removal of the race which is irreconcileably antagonists to ours. 
Your memorialists will not dwell upon those high topics of repub- 
lican consistency which addresses themselves to the understanding, 
the pride, and the conscience of this people ; nor presume to shew 
that the law of God is strikingly coincident on this all interesting 
subject with the welfare of man." 

" They believe that your wisdom is competent to devise a plan 
that will lead to the happy result to which they allude ; and that 
the resources of the state are equal to its execution. They fur- 
thermore believe the citizens of the common wealth will manfully 
and cheerfully sustain their representatives in this momentous 
effort, and bear, without a murmer, the privations and impositions 
incident to it." 

" Your memorialists pledge themselves and those whose organs 
they are, to a cordial co-operation in this great work, involving, as 
it does, the peace and happiness, the prosperity and glory of Vir- 
ginia." 

This memorial speaks a language that addresses itself, not only 
to Virginia, but to the heart and magnanimity of the whole nation . 
She is willing with her commendable proud spirit to struggle alone 
and single handed for her salvation. Is there not a nobleness of 
soul in such an exertion in a sister state that is worthy of succour 
in distress 1 Is there an American who does not sympathise with 
ill-fated Virginia 1 whose heart does not swell with feelings of con- 
dolence for the State, so conspicuous in achieving our indepen- 
dence whose illustrious statesmen so distinguished themselves in 

sustaining the honor of our country, who have so signally adorned 
our national councils with their eloquence, and whose soil is the 
birth place of a Washington 1 Already are her councils upon 
this subject, agitated with a distracting debate. 

Delaware alarmed at her own fate from the late melancholy 
disturbances, is about following the course of Virginia. 



12 

Are the all powerful mediatorial intercessions of Congress to be 
withheld while witnessing such heart-rending struggles of our sis- 
ter states to rid themselves of the curse visited upon them, and 
spend its time in debating minor questions of political expediency 
and financial economy with an overflowing treasury 1 No ! — hea- 
ven forbid it ! 

The constitutional parental care, with which Congress is invest- 
ed, over the whole union can not see the welfare and happiness 
of the Southern States threatened with destruction, without afford- 
ing its benevolent interpositions. 

The resolution introduced into Congress as a remedy does not 
strike at the root of the evil but merely affects the branch : it 
only goes to remove and colonize the free people of color ; and 
does not provide for the total liberation and colonization of the 
slaves. 

It is earnestly desired that Congress without hesitation, before it 
adjourns, will create such a national aboltion fund out of our over- 
flowing treasury as may be amply sufficient to meet all the exigen- 
cies that may arise to complete this magnificen* undertaking and 
be in readiness to assist all those states in this cause who have not 
sufficient resources of their own ; and continue its perseverance 
until there is a total extinction of slavery in the United States, and 
a colonization of this unfortunate race in Africa or elsewhere is 
effected upon the most desirable terms practicable. 

Our learned jurist, Chief Justice Marshall, and our distinguished 
statesman, Mr. Madison, are of the opinion Congress possesses 
constitutional powers to appropriate public funds to aid this redeem- 
ing project of colonizing the colored people, notwithstanding, seri- 
ous doubts are entertained upon that subject, and measures are 
about to be taken in Congress to so amend the constitution as to 
give the requisite power to afford assistance. But it is much to be 
feared, from the anxious solicitude now prevailing, to extinguish the 
surplus revenue that the means of accomplishing this grand scheme 



13 

will be entirely legislated away before this constitutional authori- 
ty can be obtained. If ever a case occurred, more unexcep- 
tionable than all others, it is this, " where the end would justify the 
means ;" and when the bold doctrine of necessity could be excusa- 
bly pleaded for using prompt remedies for great national evils, and 
for the cause of humanity. 

From the ungovernable excitement that now exists in some of 
the southern States, delay would be attended with horrible conse- 
quences and most perplexing embarrassments. 

If this plan of abolition and colonization of the slaves, or a mo- 
dified one, should not be adopted while government possesses the 
abundant means to do it, it will ever be a matter of deep repent- 
ance : not only will the southern States, but the whole Union at no 
distant day, have serious cause to regret it. The same conciliat- 
ing spirit of good fellowship that originally bound with solemn 
league the sovereign states together, should now govern Congress 
in its deliberations and prevent the opposing of any useless obsta- 
cles to the success of this measure. 

Entertaining a proper patriotic pride for the honor and dignity 
of our national character, it cannot reasonably be questioned, but 
that ere long, like the philanthropic Wiberforces and Buxtons of 
England, who have with an honest conviction so far pushed the 
popular doctrine of emancipation in Parliament as to destroy all 
faith in the slave property and stability of the colonial governm ent, 
We may find the Wilberforces and Buxtons of our own country 
with similar feelings, emboldened to overlook constitutional scru- 
pies introducing the same popular doctrines into Congress with si- 
milar effects upon the southern portion of our Union. 

That a praiseworthy zeal for universal abolition of slavery is 

now rapidly increasing in all Christian countries is undeniable, and 

that ice should be found dilatory in so noble a cause would now be 

incompatible with the exalted rank we hold with foreign nations. 

The Colonization Society has done much for the cause of hu» 



14 

manity. They deserve the thanks of the whole nation for the pro- 
gress they have made in removing thousands of the unfortunate 
race of colored people to the colony of Liberia and providing them 
with suitable establishments for their comfortable subsistence. Yet 
with their limited means and sole dependance on voluntary contri- 
butions they never can be able to effect a completion of their no- 
ble and humane designs without the liberal aid of the general go- 
vernment. 

The slave cannot reasonably oppose this plan for their ameliora- 
tion. Their experience must teach them that they never can hold 
in the society of this country a standing suitable to their wishes, 
but always one that they will naturally consider degrading and 
mortifying; as rational beings, then, the conclusion is inevitable, that 
they will be disposed to hail this benign overture for bettering their 
situation in their mother country with joyous acclamation and grat- 
itude. Forgetting the name of slave, they should be conveyed to 
the land where lay the bones of their ancestors — an asylum for 
the oppressed, there to repose in peace and independence under the 
sunshine of pleasing hopes, with fair assurance of uninterrupted 
happiness in this world, and unblighted prospects for the world to 
come. May they find it the retreat of Elysium— a paradise of un- 
exampled blessing — a region of sweets favored with heaven's un- 
ceasing smiles and abounding with the utmost profusion of the lux- 
uries of creation, in order that they may be somewhat compensated 
for the painful -privations they have been barbarously subjected to 
by the infernal slave-trader — the most accursed of the damned, who 
first dragged them in chains from their native land, exiles from 
home, from relations and friends. Dear to them will be a return 
to Afric's genial climes, where first their fathers breathed, where 
last may breath their sons ; yet dearer still will be to them, the pure 
untainted breath of freedom. 

That the slaves should continue to be held in bondage for a 
much longer period is an abhorrent idea, it is irreconcilable with 
every principle that constitutes this republic a glorious nation, 



15 

If it can possibly be supposed that the project of colonization 
should fail, and the blacks are liberated and left to form a part of 
our community with equal rights as freemen, as they become en- 
lightened their natural desire will be to have themselves represented 
by their own color, and claim to have seats in our legislature with 
the white people. Without meaning any unjust reflection, will such 
a step be tolerated under the peculiar formation of our society I 
and yet will not the resistance of it engender hazardous jealousies, 
and produce a much to be lamented inharmonius state of things 1 
And it is by no means certain, but that the aspiring potilical de- 
magogue of party, to gratify his own ambition, may be found to 
advocate their claims to those privileges, in order to have the bene- 
fit of their influence in promoting his own views, regardless of its 
unhappy tendencies when they can have 2,000,000 of people to 
appeal to. The late attempt to establish a university for the educa- 
tion of colored people in Connecticut, may, with propriety be 
referred to as illustrative of the possibility of the foregoing 
remark. Again, on another hand, it cannot be an agreeable 
reflection, that the colored part of our population promises so much 
to increase from too great a philanthropic courteous overlooking of 
the distinctions of color. This fact is notorious in all countries 
where slavery exists, and in our own, it has already become very 
conspicuous by the several hundred thousands reported in our last 
census. Those constitute an intermediate race, not acknowledg- 
ed as companions of the whites, yet too superior to associate 
cordially with the blacks. 

From reasonable calculation it appears that the colored popula- 
tion so much more rapidly increases than the white that the present 
generation may witness its becoming a very questionable fact 
whether this may be considered a nation of white or a colored 
people as regards the southern States, and the same period may 
exhibit the republic visited by a senile rebellion of extermination, 
a sad victim of degeneracy. God forbid, our future history should 
ever have occasion to record such a calamity. 



le 

Looking at this momentous subject in all points of view whether 
the general government should assist to purchase and colonise the 
slaves appears to present itself in such a formidable shape that the 
heart and mind under all considerations are brought to the irresis- 
tible conclusion that no time should be lost in its immediate com- 
mencement. Let no useless impediment palsy the arm of govern- 
ment in applying this remedy, now is the time or never to guard 
against it while the means are in her possession. Suffer this op- 
portunity to pass by, after our revenue is diminished to meet the 
mere expenditure of government, and we never again can raise a 
tax from the people adequate to such a purpose. The completion 
of this noble work will be hailed as & national jubilee, second only 
to the declaration of our independence. 



