PROPERTY 



OFTHE *\$\^$ 




W^^ew-w4#rit/ / cj/fon<6/- 



^ 



#r. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 82.] JUNE 25, 1831. [Vol. iv. No.To. 

THE WEST INDIAN MANIFESTO EXAMINED:— 

Abstract of Ameliorating Laws, viz. 1. On Religious Instruction, Observance 
of the Sabbath, Baptism, Marriage; 2. Food, Clothing, Lodging, fyc; 3. La- 
bour, Exaction of; 4. Arbitrary Punishment ; 5. Separation of Families (Mr. 
Burge's Misrepresentations) ; 6. Manumission ; 7. Slave Evidence ; 8. Right 
of Property ; 9. Legal Protection. 



The following Address to the People of Great Britain and Ireland 
has been of late most extensively circulated throughout the United 
Kingdom by the West India Body in this country. When we say 
extensively, we mean by hundreds of thousands. 

" Fellow Countrymen ! We, the undersigned persons, possessing property in 
the West India Colonies, have seen with regret and astonishment an Address to 
the People of Great Britain, put forth by a body of persons styling themsalves 
the ' London Anti-Slavery Society,' and signed on behalf of that Society by 
Messrs. T. F. Buxton, S. Gurney, W. Wilberforce, W. Smith, Z. Macaulay, D. 
Wilson, R. Watson, S. Lushington, calling on all the people of this kingdom 
who prefer ' humanity to oppression,' — ' truth to falsehood,' — ' freedom to 
slavery,' — to support those candidates only to represent them in Parliament, who 
have determined upon adopting measures for ' the speedy annihilation of slavery ; ' 
and in that Address they proceed to assure you that ' none look with greater 
horror on the shedding of blood, or the remotest chance of occasioning such a 
calamity, than themselves ; but that they are in their consciences convinced, after 
investigation most careful and scrupulous, that, from the emancipation recom- 
mended, no risk to the white inhabitants could arise.' 

" Fellow Countrymen ! We also prefer humanity to oppression, truth to false- 
hood, freedom to slavery ; but we possess, with our property in the West India 
Colonies, the means of correctly ascertaining the actual state of the Negro popu- 
lation. We know, and are ready to prove, that the general condition of. the 
Slaves has been most grossly misrepresented by the London Anti-Slavery Society ; 
and we assert, in the face of our country, our well-founded conviction, that the 
' speedy annihilation ' of slavery would be attended with the devastation of the 
West India Colonies, with loss of lives and property to the white inhabitants, 
with inevitable distress and misery to the black population, and with a fatal shock 
to the commercial credit of this empire. 

41 We deny the injurious slander that ' the holders of Slaves have proved them- 
selves unfit and unwilling to frame laws for the benefit of their bondsmen ;' on 
the contrary, out of the various measures suggested by the British Government, 
for ameliorating the condition of the Slaves, the far greater proportion of them are 
now in force under laws enacted by the Colonial Legislatures. We have desired, 
we still desire, and will most actively promote, any investigation on oath which 
Parliament shall be pleased to institute, for the purpose of ascertaining what is 
the real condition of the slave population — what laws have been passed for their 
benefit — -what progress they have made, and are now making, towards civiliza- 
tion—and what further well-digested measures are best calculated ' to prepare 
them for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which are .enjoyed by 

2 o 



290 West Indian Manifesto — Abstract of Laws. 

other classes of his Majesty's subjects' — and this ' at the earliest period compati- 
ble with the well-being of the Slaves themselves, with the safety of the Colonies, 
and with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private property.' 



Neill Malcolm. 
William Manning. 
John P. Mayers. 
Philip John Miles. 
John Mitchell. 
Rowland Mitchell. 
G. H. Dawkins Pennant. 
William Ross. 
George Shedden. 
A. Stewart. 

George Watson Taylor. 
Robert Taylor. 
John Watson.* 



Simon H. Clarke, Bart. John H. Deffell. 

Henry W. Martin, Bart. James B. Delap. 

W. Windham Dalling, Bart. John Fuller. 

William H. Cooper, Bart. Alexander Grant. 

William Fraser. Alexander Hall. 

Wm. Max. Alexander. Robert Hibbert. 

J. L. Anderdon. George Hibbert. 

David Baillie. Thomson Hankey. 

John Baillie. Isaac Higgin. 

J. Foster Barham. Hugh Hyndman. 

iEneas Barkly. John Innes. 

Andrew Colvile. William King. 

John Daniel. Roger Kynaston. 

Henry Davidson. David Lyon. 

London, April 29th, 1831. 

" The Anti-Slavery Society declare — 

" That the experience of the last eight years has demonstrated incontrovertibly, 
that it is only by the direct intervention of Parliament that any effectual remedy 
can be applied.' 

" And one of the Resolutions proposed to the House of Commons at the close 
of the last Session, by Mr. T, F. Buxton, also declared — 

^' That, during the eight years which have elapsed since the Resolutions of the 
House of Commons in 1823, the Colonial Assemblies have not taken adequate 
means for carrying those Resolutions into effect.' 

" As it is, therefore, on the express ground of the alleged refusal of the Colonial 
Assemblies to take adequate measures for carrying into effect the Resolutions of 
1823, that the Anti-Slavery party invoke the interference of Parliament, it has 
T)een thought fit to show what are the existing laws of the several Colonies, and 
which laws (with one exception, p. 12,)f are either entirely new, or have been 
re-enacted with great improvements, within the last eight years." 

These forty -one gentlemen then proceed to give, what they call, an 
"Abstract of the existing laws of our West India Colonies" compiled, 
they say, from Parliamentary documents. The correctness of this 
abstract thus vouched, and the value of the enactments it boasts of, 
it shall now be our business to examine. 

1. The " Abstract" commences with a view of the measures said to 
have been adopted in Jamaica for the benefit of the slaves, in pursu- 
ance of the suggestions of His Majesty's Government; and the first 
point which they select in proof of the compliance of the legislature of 
this island is that of " Religious Instruction and the Observance of 
the Sabbath." Now, we should be quite willing to rest the whole merits 
of this controversy on the truth or falsehood of the alleged compliance. 
The recommendation of the British Government was that Sunday 
markets and Sunday labour should be abolished, and a day in lieu of 
the Sunday given to the slaves for those purposes. But in what re- 
spect has the legislature of Jamaica complied with this suggestion ? 
It has given the slaves no day in lieu of Sunday, nor do its present 



* We have inserted the forty-one names subscribed to this paper by way of 
securing a lasting record of them; They are names which ought not to be forgotten, 
f We shall hereafter show how unfounded is this statement. 



Religious Instruction — Sunday Markets and Labour. 291 

advocates pretend that it has done so. Neither has it abolished Sun- 
day markets. On the contrary, it has given them, as the " Abstract" 
itself admits, the express sanction of law, by permitting them to be 
held and kept open till eleven o'clock. The legislature of Jamaica, 
these forty-one gentlemen gravely tell us, has passed a law for the 
observance of the Sabbath ; and yet that law, on their own shewing, 
makes Sunday markets lawful, permitting them to bekeptopen till eleven 
o'clock. The enactment in question, therefore, instead of providing 
for the observance of the Sabbath, actually provides, (as if in mockery 
of the recommendation of Government and of the wishes of the par- 
liament and people of Great Britain,) for the non-observance, for the 
desecration of that sacred day. The markets may now by positive law 
(a law that had no previous existence in the Statute book of Jamaica) 
be kept open for nearly half the Sunday. But even the having 
thus legalized Sunday markets for so large a part of the day is only a 
small part of the evil consequent on this pretended act of compliance. 
The slaves, be it remembered, who bring their produce to be sold in 
the Sunday market, kept open by a new and express law till eleven 
o'clock in the forenoon, must previously have travelled with their 
loads from their residences in the country ; and having consumed half 
of the Sunday in this labour, and in effecting their sales and their pur- 
chases, must again retrace their weary steps, under a noontide sun, to 
their respective plantations, at a distance of five, ten, fifteen, or per- 
haps twenty miles from the market-place. Can Sunday, under such cir- 
cumstances, be designated with any truth as a day of rest and religious 
observance 1 Is it not rather absolutely converted, by the pretended 
ameliorating enactment itself, into a day of toil and fatigue, into a day 
devoted to the most secular of all employments, into a day of pecu- 
liar hurry, and distraction, and dissipation ? What period of such 
a day, so spent, would it be possible to appropriate with any effect to 
the work of religious instruction ? What, then, is it that we have to 
contemplate in the statement made to us under the solemn assevera- 
tions and the formal attestation of these forty -one gentlemen? Is it 
not something which very much resembles a deliberate attempt to im- 
pose on the public by a representation, not which slightly varies from 
the truth of the case, but which stands in direct opposition to it ? Those 
must have formed a strange idea of the gullibility of that public who 
could boldly venture to stake their credit on such a statement, a 
statement so notoriously contradicted by the very words of the Act, 
that they themselves, if they opened their eyes, could not but know, 
at the very time they affixed their signatures to this paper, that it was 
destitute of even the shadow of truth. 

And let it not be here forgotten that the West Indians generally, 
nay that many of these very gentlemen themselves, have told us re- 
peatedly, and in the strongest terms, that, in their opinion, it is only 
by means of religious instruction the slaves are to be improved, or fitted 
for freedom ; a consummation which they further profess to desire as 
ardently as we do ourselves. And yet, the grand proof they give of the 
sincerity of these opinions and these professions, and which proof they 
render peculiarly prominent by placing it in the very front of their 



292 West Indian Manifesto— Religious Instruction. 

present laboured defence, is an enactment which, instead of abo- 
lishing Sunday marketing and Sunday labour, and allotting other 
time in lieu of Sunday for these purposes, so as to afford to the slaves 
their only opportunity of religious instruction, confers for the first 
time a legal sanction on the gross and systematic violation of the 
Sabbath, by recognising it as the day, the exclusive day of traffic for the 
slaves, and thus imposing upon them, as an inevitable effect of the law, 
the necessity of undergoing on that day much severe and exhausting 
toil.* We put it to the understanding of every impartial man, nay, 
we put it to the consciences of the forty-one subscribers to the paper 
before us, whether this be a fair, open, ingenuous, and honest course ; 
and whether, therefore, both the enactment of the Jamaica legislature 
on the subject, and their own attempted vindication of it, do not wear 
an air which in the case of less honourable men would be deemed 
somewhat akin to imposture ? We dwell on this point the more in- 
tently and explicitly, not only because these gentlemen have made 
this point a prominent part of their case, but because they have uni- 
formly chosen to represent the religious instruction of their slaves as 
an indispensable preliminary to improvement and ultimate emancipa- 
tion. The legislation however, of Jamaica, of which they boast, and 
forwhich they claim credit with the public, is manifestly so far from 
tending to promote religious instruction, that it seems to have been 
skilfully adapted to retard, if not wholly to frustrate, that object. 

These forty-one gentlemen charge the Anti-Slavery Society with 
having most grossly misrepresented the general condition of their 
slaves. It is obviously impossible for us to reply to so vague and 
indefinite a charge ; and on that very account, we doubt not, they 
have found it convenient to avoid all specification. We, on the con- 
trary, in dealing with their statements, wish to avoid mere generalities, 
and to grapple with their assertions on the ground of fact and evi- 
dence. Such is our course in the present instance. We have proved 
by the best of all testimony, namely, by their own, that their defence 
is invalid ; and that, notwithstanding their bold affirmations to the 



* The forty-one gentlemen who have affixed their names to this paper, will 
probably allege that we deal unfairly with the legislature of Jamaica, in not ad- 
mitting that it has passed an act, which relieves slaves from arrest for their mas- 
ter's debts, not only on Sunday but also on Saturday, and this with the professed 
object of facilitating their attendance on a Saturday market. But of what use is 
this pretended indulgence to the slave, while the same legislature who passed this 
clause (the only purpose of which seems to be to furnish an argument against the 
abolitionists,) has not chosen to appoint the market to be held on Saturday, 
or to give Saturday to the slave on which to go to that market. To the slave, 
therefore, it is obviously of no use. 

Again, what benefit does it confer on the slave to pass a law that he shall 
ndt be required to perform plantation work on the Sunday, when not only, as we 
have shewn, the state of the law respecting the Sunday market compels him to 
toil and fatigue and secularity on that day, but when the refusal to allot time to 
him in lieu of Sunday for cultivating his provision grounds, (which grounds fur- 
nish to him and his family their means of subsistence) drives him to the alternative 
that he must either labour on that day, or starve ? 



Religious Instruction-^ Baptism and Marriage. 293 

contrary, Jamaica has not complied with the suggestions of the Go- 
vernment on this most vital point of religious instruction and the 
observance of the Sabbath. By the very evidence, therefore, which 
they themselves have adduced, and which stands foremost in their 
defence, they " have demonstrated incontrovertibly" the truth of our 
position, "that the holders of slaves have proved themselves unfit and 
unwilling to frame laws for the benefit of their bondsmen ; " and "that 
it is only by the direct intervention of Parliament that any effectual 
remedy can be applied" to the admitted evils of Colonial slavery; 
being the very point, by their own statement, at issue between us. 

Now if we have established in this single instance, avowedly one of 
the primest importance and of peculiar solemnity, that this "Abstract," 
deliberately framed as it has been, and sanctioned by so many high 
names, is nevertheless a deceptious document, calculated to mislead 
the public, and to convey false views of West Indian improvement, 
we might well be spared from proceeding farther with our inquiry, and 
might be justified in at orice calling on the public to refuse any longer 
to listen to representations so wholly undeserving of regard. — These 
forty-one gentlemen lay claim to public attention on the ground that 
their possession of West India property affords them the means of 
correctly ascertaining the truth. If we were to concede to them this 
claim, the concession would neither disprove facts that are incontrover- 
tible, nor convert truth into falsehood, though it might add to the 
discredit of those whose authority, grounded on the claim of superior 
knowledge, should be exerted to that unhallowed end. 

,But we must not omit to remind the public that the very mistate- 
ments which we have now held up to merited reprehension, have been 
already, over and over again, exposed in our pages, in terms similar 
to those which we have now employed. And yet the very same mis- 
statements have continued to be repeated, by nearly the same parties, 
without a single attempt to disprove those direct charges of deliberate 
mistatement we had preferred against them ; those charges, too, being 
supported by evidence which they themselves (the West Indians) had 
supplied. We might refer, indeed, in order to confirm this heavy 
imputation, to the three volumes of the Anti-Slavery Reporter already 
published ; but we will only point out at present, to those who wish 
(in addition to the statements given in our very last number) to satisfy 
themselves of the fact, the Anti-Slavery Reporters, No. 37, and 
No. 60. No. 60 especially, contains an unanswered and unanswer- 
able exposure of an attempt, under the same title of an " Abstract," 
in many respects similar to the present, and from which, indeed, the 
present has evidently, in great part, been borrowed. And this cir- 
cumstance, coupled with the uniform and determined policy adopted 
by these parties, cautiously to avoid all notice of the specific proofs 
we adduce of their deliberate misrepresentations, furnishes, of itself, 
no light presumption of the correctness of our statements. These 
gentlemen, naturally enough, prefer, in such a case, general and vague 
abuse to any thing like distinct refutation. 

With respect to the points of baptism and marriage, comprised 
under the general head of religion, it will be sufficient to observe, that 



294 West Indian Manifesto Examined. 

baptism can be considered of little value if disjoined from the reli- 
gious instruction which is, to a great degree, unattainable under the 
system which prevails in Jamaica, in regard to the Sabbath; — and 
that the law of this Island, relative to marriage, instead of promoting, 
serves rather to obstruct and discourage that institution, though it 
be the necessary foundation of all domestic and social improvement. 
(See Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. iii. No. 60, p. 193—195.) 

The above statement with respect to Jamaica may be considered as 
applicable, in one most material respect, to all the Colonies, whether 
Crown or Chartered. In none of them, even where Sunday markets 
have been abolished, as in the Crown colonies and in Grenada and 
Tobago, has a day been given in lieu of Sunday. But even the en- 
tire abolition of the Sunday market, and the appointment of another 
day for holding markets, will be of no value to the slave unless 
the day so appointed shall be made his by law, and unless the slave 
be also protected, by law, on that day, from arrest for the debts of his 
master. A slave going to market on any day but Sunday may now 
be seized and sold for his master's debts. How, then, can he go to 
market on any day but Sunday ? Jamaica, indeed, has exempted 
him from arrest on the Saturday, but has dexterously contrived to 
nullify that provision by refusing to give him the Saturday for the 
purposes of marketing and labour. 

In the case of the mere limitation of the Sunday markets to nine 
o'clock as in Barbadoes, or to ten as in St. Vincent, or to eleven as in 
most of the other chartered colonies, the case is equally disadvan- 
tageous to the slave as we have shewn it to be in Jamaica. They are 
in fact only different modes, under the hypocritical shew of a com- 
pliance, of depriving the slave population of the benefit intended for 
them by the Government and legislature of this country, in requiring 
that Sunday markets and Sunday labour should cease. 

The remarks respecting baptism and marriage are also with slight 
variations equally applicable to the other chartered Colonies as to 
Jamaica ; the regulations respecting marriage being, in general, cal- 
culated to discourage rather than to promote that institution. 

2. The next topic on which these gentlemen choose to insist as 
establishing their claim to humanity, and their fitness to legislate for 
their bondsmen, bears this title : 

" Food, clothing, lodging, general treatment." 
Now the highest scale they give us of their estimate of the suffi- 
ciency of the essential articles of food and clothing, on which so much 
of human comfort necessarily depends, is contained under the head 
of Demerara, and is as follows— 

" Weekly Allowance of Food and of Clothing, to be given to Slaves in the United 
Colony of Demerara and Essequebo. 

" Adult working male or female, to have of salt fish, herrings, shads, mackerel, 
or other salt provisions, 2lbs. : if fresh, double the quantity, with half a pint of 
salt : one and a half bunch of plantains, weighing not less than 45lbs., or of other 
farinaceous food ; 9 pints corn or beans ; 8 pints pease, or wheat or rye flour, or 
Indian corn meal; or 9 pints oatmeal; or 7 pints rice; or 8 pints Cassava flour; 
or 8lbs biscuit ; or 20lbs. yams or potatoes; or 16lbs. eddoes or tanios, and not 



Allowances of food, clothing, fyc. 295 

less. Invalids, and boys and girls from 10 to 15 years of age to have two-thirds, 
and boys and girls from 5 to 10 years of age, to have one-half of the above 
quantities of salt provisions, and of plantains, or other farinaceous food. Chil- 
dren from 1 to 5 years of age, to have one-third of the above quantity of salt 
provisions, and one-third of the quantity of plantains, or other farinaceous food. 

" Yearly Allowance of Clothing : — 

" Working males : 1 hat, 1 cloth jacket, 1 check shirt, 1 pair Osnaburg 
trowsers, 2 Salampore caps, 1 razor or knife, 1 blanket every 2 years. Work- 
ing females : 1 hat, 1 gown or wrapper, 1 check shift, 1 Osnaburg petticoat, 1 
pair of scissors, 1 blanket every 2 years. To invalids and children in propor- 
tion." 

The allowances of food for the slaves in the Leeward Islands includ- 
ing Antigua, St. Christopher's, Nevis, Montserrat and Tortola are 
on nearly the same scale, except that the salt fish is reduced to If lbs. a 
week and the fresh in proportion, and that a permission is given to 
the owner to diminish, with the exception of the fish, even these scanty 
allowances by a fifth part, in time of crop. The clothing consists of a 
single suit annually. The allowances of Tobago do not differ very 
materially from these. 

No specific allowances are by law assigned to the slaves generally 
in any of the other Colonies excepting the Bahamas. But there, 
instead of eight pints of flour a week as in Demerara, &c. the legal 
allowance is twenty-one pints for each slave, and instead of seven 
pints of rice, fourteen, and instead of one suit, two suits of clothing 
yearly. 

In Jamaica, though no specific allowances of food are prescribed 
by law for the field or working slaves, that is, for the slaves generally, 
yet the law of that island, as these forty -one gentlemen admit, fixes, 
as sufficient, the rate of allowance, for slaves confined in gaols or 
workhouses, at twenty-one pints of flour and seven herrings weekly. 

It cannot be supposed to be the intention of the legislature of Ja- 
maica to pamper their criminal slaves, or their apprehended runaways, 
by giving them a superabundance of food. On the contrary, the 
utmost that justice and humanity could require would be that the 
food, afforded to these offenders against the laws, should be sufficient. 
But when we compare their twenty-one pints of flour a week with the 
eight pints allowed in Demerara and the Leeward Islands, to hard 
working field slaves, toiling under an exhausting sun from day dawn to 
dusk, and often much longer; what must we think of the cruel parsimony 
which can have dictated such a law? We marvel what any one of 
the forty -one subscribers to this address would say to his being kept 
for a single day on such fare as this — a pint and one-seventh, or 
about a pound, of raw undressed flour, and three ounces of salt fish a 
day ? The utmost such a pittance could do for him would be to 
keep soul and body together for a brief space. In truth it is an 
absolutely starving allowance, and of itself sufficiently explains the 
frightful waste of life in our slave Colonies. Still we think that each 
of these advocates of the sufficiency and humanity of this provision, if 
he persists in his plea, is bound fairly to put the matter for once 
to the test of a week's experiment in his own case, and to favour the 
public with the result. And if not, he is at least bound to refute 



296 West Indian Manifesto Examined. 

the authentic facts which Mr. Stephen, in the second volume of his 
Delineation of Slavery, has adduced to prove the miserable and 
destructive insufficiency of such an allowance as that which is here 
held forth as ample. (See his eighth chapter, p. 243 to 341.) " The 
shocking and opprobrious result" of the elaborate comparison which 
Mr. Stephen has there instituted between the allowances to the field 
slaves in the West Indies; and those to the inmates of our gaols and 
penitentiaries, both when idle and when put to hard labour, in Eng- 
land ; is thus stated by that able and accurate writer : — 

" The English vagabond or felon, when imprisoned for his crime 
has a subsistence which, on the lowest general estimate that can be 
formed, is, at least, two-fold superior in nutritious value to that of the 
poor West Indian negro, whose freedom has been forfeited by no 
crime of his own, but solely by the deep, publicly acknowleged, legis- 
latively recorded crime of this enlightened Christian land, perpetrated 
against himself or his African progenitors. The one is thus fed 
while in idleness. When forced to labour his subsistence is still 
greater. The other (the slave), though his forced and permanent 
labours are twice as great, has, at best, not half the food. Yet the 
former's allowances are limited by the necessity of the case, the neces- 
sity of saving him from the wasting of the body, from debility, sickness 
and death. What, then, must be the consequences of giving less 
than half the subsistence to the ultra-laborious slave ? What they 
actually are, my readers have sufficiently seen. They cannot be better 
summed up than in the emphatic words of Dr. Collins,* in his Practical 
Rules, &c. p. 87, 88, ' With so scanty a pittance, he says, it is, in- 
deed, possible for the soul and body to be held together for a consider- 
able time with no other resource.' ' They (the Negroes) may crawl 
about with feeble emaciated frames,' but ' their attempts to wield the 
hoe prove abortive ; they shrink from their toil, and being urged to 
perseverance by stripes, you are soon obliged to receive them in the 
hospital, whence, unless your plan be speedily corrected, they depart 
but to 'the grave:' and he goes on to 'aver it boldly,' on the 'ground 
of his own experience, that numbers of Negroes have perished annually 
by diseases produced by inanition." (Stephen's Delineation, vol. ii. 
p. 318.) 

We need say no more to prove that West Indian legislation, 
respecting the subsistence of the slaves, does not go very far to es- 

* Dr. Collins was an eminent medical practitioner in St. Vincent's, where he 
became possessed of many slaves. He was one of the most able and zealous 
apologists of the West India system. He published a work entitled " Practical 
Rules for the Management and Medical Treatment of Negro Slaves in the Sugar 
Colonies," which was so highly valued by some West Indians, that Mr. G. 
Hibhert, the agent of Jamaica, caused an extensive edition of it to be printed 
and circulated. It was not till afterwards that the melancholy impression of the 
condition of the negro slave, which this faithful though indirect exhibition of its 
evils was calculated to produce, became fully known to the public. Mr. Stephen 
has drawn from it a most remarkable confirmation of every part of the horrid 
case which his own masterly Delineation of Colonial Slavery has laid bare to the 
eye of the national conscience. 



■General Treatment — Exaction of Labour. 297 

tablish the planters' claim to humanity, or their " fitness to Frame 
laws for benefit of their bondsmen." 

As for the legal provision of clothing, it is almost too ludicrous 
to be seriously mentioned, were it not for the melancholy conse- 
quences which it involves. One suit of clothing- in the year, to men and 
women ! and of such clothing ! made of the vilest and most flimsy 
materials ! What must be the state of this annual suit at the close of 
the year, if it has indeed been worn and washed during that time? 
Will it be pretended that such an allowance can provide for comfort 
or even for decency ? It would be utterly inadequate even to cover 
the nakedness of these human cattle, if they have no other resource, 
which many of them have not. The whole value of it probably 
does not exceed that of the cloth of one of the pampered horses 
of any one of the forty -one subscribers to this address. 

As for the articles of lodging and general treatment, the terms in 
which these are spoken of in the Colonial Acts are too vague to serve 
any purpose but that of imposing, by a mere shew of legislation, ut- 
terly worthless in itself, on the ignorance of the good people of this 
country. As for general treatment, that is obviously to be measured, 
not by any vague terms they may employ on the subject, but by the 
quantity of food and clothing secured to the slaves, the labour exacted 
from them, the punishments arbitrarily inflicted, the protection given 
by law, the instruction imparted to them, and a variety of other par- 
ticulars which have already appeared, or will hereafter appear under 
their separate heads, and which, united, go to form the aggregate of 
what may be called general treatment.* 

3. Our forty -one West India advocates produce, in the next place, 
the legal regulations respecting labour, as proving ** the humanity" of 
the planters, and " their fitness to make laws for their bondsmen." It 
might indeed be assumed a priori, that as the benefit of the slave's 
labour was to belong to the planter exclusively, and as the slave had 
no voice in regulating its amount, the tendency of enactments, framed 
arid enforced by the interested party, would be to an excess of exac- 
tion. And that such has been the actual result, is shewn by this very 
" Abstract," which professes to establish a contrary conclusion. 

Taking the new law of Jamaica as a sample of the whole, both because 
it is a fair sample, and because its slave population is nearly equal to 
that of all the other colonies, what, on the shewing of these forty -one 
gentlemen, is the state of the case ? The slaves then of Jamaica, as well 
as of most of the colonies, are compellable by law, to labour in the 
field from five in the morning till seven at night, being fourteen hours 
a day, with intervals of two hours and a half, which still leave, even 
supposing them to be effective intervals, eleven hours and a half of 
field-labour in each day, under the blaze of a tropical sun, which the 
planter may exact, and the slave is bound to yield, on pain of the 
lash. Eleven hours and a half of compulsory labour in the field 
during each day, the whole year round '. Was any thing like this 

* The reader has only to turn to our last number, p. 283 and 284, for a strik- 
ing illustration, in the case of Jamaica itself, of the hunger, and the nakedness, 
and the maltreatment incident to Slavery. 

2 p 



298 West Indian Manifesto — Exaction of Labour. 

exaction ever known, even in temperate climates? But then this is only 
the labour they may be actually compelled to perform in the field. 
The additional night labour of crop-time, to which there is no limit, 
is expressly excluded from the eleven hours and a half which may be 
consumed in field work. The night work of crop-time is over and 
above this, and may be estimated at five hours more, namely, from 
seven in the evening till midnight for half the gang, and from mid- 
night to five in the morning for the other half, alternately. And this 
period of crop lasts for from four to six months of the year, according 
to circumstances. During those four, five, or six months, therefore, the 
slaves may be legally required to be actually employed in plantation 
labour, for sixteen hours and a half out of the twenty-four. Thus 
much, we repeat it, the law expressly authorizes the master or his de- 
legate to exact from them, for the sole benefit of the master. But in 
addition to this enormous continuity of labour, it is obvious that there 
are various indispensable demands on the time of the slaves, which are 
of constant and daily recurrence, and which must greatly abridge 
their broken intervals of repose. They must be ready for the field in 
the morning, in order to be there at five, and must travel thither in 
the morning and afternoon, and must return thence at noon and at 
night. They must prepare and cook their raw and undressed food, 
collect fuel for that purpose, obtain Avater, often from a distance, take 
care of their children, wash their clothes, and attend to other domes- 
tic objects which we need not enumerate ; and for all which it would 
be unreasonable to assign less than an hour and a half or two hours 
in the day ; thus swelling their time of actual occupation, during 
crop-time, to eighteen hours or eighteen hours and a half in the 
twenty-four, leaving only five or six for meals and for repose. 

During the six or eight months which may remain, exclusive of 
crop-time, their case is doubtless mitigated. Still they are liable, even 
then, to thirteen or fourteen hours of unceasing employment, indepen- 
dently of the time for meals and for repose. Eventhis, however, is too 
luxurious a state of ease and indulgence to be suffered to subsist 
without encroachment. Accordingly it is considered, out of crop, to 
be, in most cases, a regular part of the duty of the field-slaves, after 
the labour of the field is over, (that is, after seven o'clock at night,) to 
employ themselves in collecting fodder for the horses and cattle on 
the plantation, and in bringing it to an appointed place, to be inspected 
and duly deposited, before they are finally dismissed to their rest for 
the night. 

This most onerous task of grass collecting, in addition to all the 
other labours of the day, is seldom alluded to by West Indians. They 
seem anxious to hide every trace of it from the knowledge of the 
public, and at this we cannot wonder, for it is a most grievous and 
wanton aggravation of the miseries of their bondsmen. The following 
is the manner in which Dr. Collins speaks of it : — "The picking of 
grass in situations where it is most abundant, is a labour more felt and 
regretted by the negroes than others much more severe." Again, he 
says, " The neglect of grass-picking is another frequent cause of 
punishment. On some estates it draws more stripes upon the negroes 



Exaction of Labour — G?'as$ Picking. 299 

than all their other offences put together, as the lash seldom lies idle 
while the grass-roll is calling over." "As it (this grass-picking) is to 
be performed when the negroes are retired from the field, and no 
longer under the eye of the overseer or driver, it is apt to be neglected. 
Besides it encroaches much on the time allotted to their own use; and 
even after they have, with much trouble, picked their bundles, they 
are frequently stolen from them by other negroes, and their excuses, 
however just, are seldom admitted to extenuate their fault." Dr. 
Collins strongly recommends some other mode of meeting this want, 
if it were only that the negroes might escape the whip, " which," he 
adds, " is too intemperately employed on this as on other occasions. 
The misfortune is, the whip is always at hand, and therefore supplies 
the readiest means of punishing; for the overseer, having such a 
summary mode of balancing offences, never thinks of any other." 
p. 192—205. 

The common practice with respect to grass-collecting is, that all the 
field slaves shall be compelled, after quitting the field at night, (and 
in many cases at noon also,) to collect a bundle of grass, and to pro- 
ceed with it to the stable or cattle-pen, and when all are there 
assembled, to have their names called over and their bundles examined, 
in order to see that they are sufficiently large. If not, or if they fail 
to attend this roll-call, they are punished. The bundles are then 
thrown into a heap, and the slaves are dismissed. Nor is it only the 
demand on the time and labour of the slaves, after the fatiguing toil 
of a tropical day, which is to be lamented in this inhuman practice, 
but their exposure to the chilling effect, on their heated bodies, of the 
night air, and often of the rain, which, when it falls, soaks their 
bundles, and streams down from the head, on which these are carried, 
over their whole bodies, generating colds, fevers, and consumptions. 

Nor is this a practice which belongs only to ancient times, or to the 
days of Dr. Collins which are comparatively modern, but which 
exists, at the present hour, even in the Crown Colonies. And it will 
be found, by the Protectors' returns, which have been laid before Par- 
liament, that in Trinidad, Demerara, Berbice, Mauritius, &c. there is 
no part of the fatiguing exactions required from the slaves which 
brings down upon them now, as it did in Dr. Collins's time, more fre- 
quent floggings than this. The same is the case in most of the other 
colonies ; the laws of some Of them expressly giving the master a 
right to exact this bundle of grass after the labour of the field is 
closed.* This practice, however, is neither so onerous nor so uni- 
versal in Jamaica as in most of the other colonies. It nevertheless 
prevails there to a considerable extent. And wherever it does prevail, 
it is unquestionably a practice of the most oppressive and injurious 
description, as it respects both the comfort and the health of the 
slaves. 



* The Act of Grenada expressly provides, that the slaves are not to be com- 
pelled to work beyond the period of field-labour, except "in manufacturing such 
produce as necessarily requires night or extra labour," or " in the carrying a 
bundle of grass or stockmeat from the field to the stable or other place, where 
the same is consumed." — They must collect this bundle before they can carry it. 



300 West Indian Manifesto — Arbitrary Punishment. 

Such is the general system of labour which, our forty-one advocates 
of slavery affirm, proves the "humanity" of the planters, and "their 
fitness" to make laws for the benefit of their bondsmen ! 

4. The next point we shall advert to is that of arbitrary " punish- 
ment.^ Now, the forty-one gentlemen who have undertaken to 
vindicate the humanity of the colonial legislatures, and among them 
of that of Jamaica, tell us that " the existing laws," of which they 
profess to give an " abstract," " are either entirely new, or have 
been re-enacted, with great improvements, within the last eight 
years." They here make no exception. Now, we beg to ask of 
them to point out, under which of these classes they mean to place 
the clause of the Act numbered by them 36, of which they give 
the following abstract, viz : — " No slave shall receive more than 
ten lashes, except in presence of owner or overseer ; nor, in such 
presence, more than thirty-nine in one day, nor until recovered from 
former punishment; under penalty of £20." This is neither a new 
nor an improved enactment. It stands forth in the latest Slave Code 
of Jamaica, with precisely the same grim and ferocious aspect which 
it exhibited in the consolidated Slave Act of 1788, and in every in- 
termediate renewal of it ! But let us give the very words of the 
clause as it now stands : they ought never to be lost sight of by 
the British public. They bear now, it seems, the date of 1831. 

il And IN ORDER TO RESTRAIN ARBITRARY PUNISHMENT, be it further 

enacted, that no slave, on any plantation or settlement, or in any of 
the workhouses or gaols of this Island, shall receive any more than 
ten lashes at one time and for one offence, unless the owner, attor- 
ney, guardian, executor, administrator, or overseer, of such planta- 
tion or settlement, having such slave in his care, or keeper of such 
workhouse, or keeper of such gaol shall be present; -and that no such 
owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, or overseer, work- 
house-keeper, or gaol-keeper, shall, on any account, punish a slave 
with more than thirty-nine lashes, at one time, or for one offence, 
nor inflict, nor suffer to be inflicted, such last mentioned punishment, 
nor any other number of lashes on the same day, nor until the delin- 
quent has recovered from the effect of any former punishment, under 
a penalty of not less than ten pounds, nor more than twenty pounds 
for every offence." 

Such then is one of the laws which these forty -one gentlemen, the 
acknowledged representatives of the West India body, ostentatiously 
hold forth to the public, as an evidence of colonial humanity, and as 
a refutation of what they term the gross misrepresentations of the 
Anti-Slavery Society, when it affirms that " the holders of slaves 
have proved themselves unfit and unwilling to frame laws for the 
benefit of their bondsmen," and that "the experience of the last eight 
years has demonstrated incontrovertibly that it is only by the direct 
intervention of parliament that any effectual remedy can be applied." 
And yet, what farther evidence can be wanting to establish these po- 
sitions than the very existence of such a law, retained, cherished, un- 
modified, vaunted, not only by its framers, but by their distinguished 
defenders. Would the oaths these gentlemen tender, in proof of the 
humanity of colonial bondage, efface this revolting enactment, an. 



Jamaica Law of Arbitrary Punishment. 301 

enactment not dragged from the records of some barbarous age, and 
long since become obsolete, but deliberately renewed from time to 
time, during a long series of years, after reiterated debate and dis- 
cussion, in contempt of the strongest recommendations of the crown, 
the denunciations of Parliament, and the indignation of the whole 
British nation ; nay more, triumphantly re-enacted by the assembly, 
as a part of the Jamaica Slave Code of 1831, and then exhibited, 
by forty-one West Indian planters and merchants of the first emi- 
nence, as a decisive proof of the humanity of slave-holders, and their 
fitness to legislate for their bondsmen. 

But let us contemplate more nearly and particularly the whole 
enormity of this clause. We are continually reproached with dwelling 
on individual instances of cruelty, which, as they may occur in the 
best regulated community, prove nothing as to the general state of 
law and manners which may prevail in it. But here we have whole 
communities, acting by their representatives freely chosen, strenuously 
contending for the continuance of this monstrous and revolting power 
of lacerating, at their pleasure, the prostrate bodies of their dependants, 
and pertinaciously clinging to it, as if it was their life. They seem to 
hug the cart-whip to their bosoms as their glory, their grand badge of 
distinction. And not only are those, it would seem, ready to fight for 
it, who actually wield it, who exult in its explosions, and whose lust 
of power is gratified by directing and witnessing its application ; but 
by forty-one chosen advocates of the West India body, residing 
among ourselves, mixing in our assemblies, joining our convivial par- 
ties, occupying seats in our imperial senate, and claiming the name 
and the character of English gentlemen. 

And then, over whom, and by whom, is this power, thus fondly che- 
rished and thus firmly grasped, thus reasserted in the year 1831 by 
the Assembly of Jamaica, and thus defended by no less than forty-one 
select and distinguished members of the West India body; — over 
whom and by whom, we ask, is this power to be exercised ? It may be 
exercised over every slave of the 325,000 who inhabit the Island of 
Jamaica. Every man, woman, or child, by this law, is subjected to 
it. Each and all of them may, by this law, be laid prostrate on 
the earth, and have their bared and quivering limbs shamefully exposed 
to the common gaze, and torn and mangled with thirty-nine lashes of 
the torturing cart-whip. And to all this they are liable, without even the 
form of a trial or the order of a magistrate ; at the mere caprice or 
bidding of another ; for no defined or specified offence ; but merely 
because the individual, armed with this tremendous power, chooses to 
exercise it. — And then who are those to whom the law delegates this 
frightful exercise of arbitrary power over the persons of their fel- 
lows ? They are, to the extent of ten lashes, every driver or quasi 
driver, and to the extent of thirty-nine, every one, whether male or 
female, who is the owner of a slave, or to whom such owner may think 
proper, at his sole discretion, to transfer or delegate his legal rights of 
proprietorship. In short, every owner, attorney, guardian, executor, 
administrator, or overseer, nay every keeper of either gaol or 
work-house, is armed, by this law, with the power of thus lacerating 
the body of every slave under his charge; at his discretion; without 



302 West Indian Manifesto. 

being required, by this or any other law, to assign a reason for so 
doing ; nay, being actually protected by law, in so doing, from all re- 
sponsibility whatever, provided he does not kill or maim his victim. 

And yet, as if in mockery of every feeling of humanity and justice, 
and as if to mark the pernicious effect of participating in the admi- 
nistration, or even in the gains, of slavery, the legislators of Jamaica, 
and their forty-one British advocates, continue to maintain that the 
very object for which this clause has been framed, is, "in order to 
restrain Arbitrary Punishment !" 

Now let us never forget, when considering the degree in which the 
boasted limit of thirty-nine lashes may be considered to operate as an 
effectual restraint on cruelty, first, the candid declaration of the As- 
sembly of Barbadoes in 1826, (when apologizing for its refusal to limit 
the number of lashes which an owner might arbitrarily inflict,) namely, 
that even "a given number of stripes, in the hands of a relentless 
executioner, may, under the sanction of the law, be so inflicted as to 
amount to an act of cruelty;" and second, the candid and humane 
statement of Mr. Barrett, himself a large owner of slaves in Jamaica, 
who, in his place in the Assembly, asserted that the cart-whip was a 
base, cruel, debasing, detestable instrument of torture, thirty-nine 
lashes of which might be made more grievous than five hundred of 
the cat, though the latter was only inflicted after solemn trial, and the 
former, " at the pleasure of an individual, at his sole command, as 
caprice, or passion," (and he might have added or drunkenness, or 
brutal lust) "dictated." 

On this head we have confined ourselves hitherto chiefly to Ja- 
maica. We will now briefly advert to the other chartered colonies. 
In none of them has the flogging of females been abolished by law, 
and in practice it is still continued, and in no one more shamelessly 
and cruelly than in Jamaica itself, of which recent Parliamentary 
papers furnish abundant proof. (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. iii. 
No. 71, p. 481, and vol. iv. No. 76, &c.) In the chartered colonies, 
indeed, this abomination has been prohibited, not by the planters, but, 
in spite of their clamorous opposition, by the authoritative mandate of 
the supreme government. 

Barbadoes stoutly maintained, that " to forbid, by legislative 
enactment, the flogging of female slaves, would be productive of the 
most injurious consequences." There are, however, forty -one eminent 
planters who vauntingly tell us, that, by the humane law of that 
island, women when flogged, are to be flogged decently, and with the 
military cat, and that "pregnant women" are no longer to be 
flogged, but merely confined. Could the most inveterate enemy of 
the Colonists have imagined, beforehand, that in the year 1827, such 
a law could have been unblushingly framed, by a body even of Bar- 
badian legislators; and that in 1831, the humanity of it should be 
vindicated by forty-one English gentlemen? So seems to have thought 
the late Mr. Huskisson. In his despatch of the 18th October, 1827, 
he observes, that the military cat was an instrument " intended for 
the correction of men in the maturity of life, guilty of serious offences. 
It would be most formidable, if the young, the aged, and the infirm, 
were to be the sufferers. In the case of females," he added, " I 



Power of Arbitrary Punishment. 303 

should hope that no man could seriously think of resorting to it. The 
case supposed of a woman being flogged in an indecent manner, or 
of a pregnant woman being flogged at all, would seem to require 
some much more severe punishment than a fine of £10 currency." 
How must these Barbadian legislators, who had been flogging naked 
women all their days with the cart-whip, have laughed to scorn the 
squeamishness of Mr. Huskisson, and his horror of the army cat! So 
far were they from sympathizing with him, that they solemnly and 
officially declare, that to discontinue the flogging of women, would 
be inconsistent with " the safety of the inhabitants, the interests of 
property, and the welfare of the slaves themselves." And yet these 
men are held out to us, by the distinguished forty-one, as men of hu- 
manity, "ft to make laws for the benefit of their bondsmen .'" 

St. Vincent, the Bahamas, and several other colonies, in respect to 
severity of punishment, stand precisely on the same footing as Ja- 
maica. In some of them we have a similar affectation of decency, in 
the flogging of women, as is shewn in Barbadoes. In Grenada, St. 
Christopher's, and Tobago, the limitation of stripes has been reduced 
from thirty-nine to twenty-five ; and Dominica has substituted the 
cat for the cart-whip. As for the laws professed to be passed in a few 
of the chartered colonies, for abolishing the driving-whip, they are 
nothing more than a gross attempt to blind the eyes of the British 
public. The remarks of Earl Bathurst, on that of St. Vincent, are 
applicable, with trivial variations, to all of them. " The law," he 
says, "is so constructed, that a free-negro may use it (the driving- 
whip) with impunity, and even a slave may be employed to use it, if 
not carried as an emblem of authority, but as a means of impelling 
other slaves to labour. The prohibition, too, extends only to one 
description of whip, namely, that which is usually called the cart- 
whip. And it is only on the plantation it is prohibited at all. In 
other places it may be exhibited even by a slave with impunity." 
(Papers by Command for 1827, p. 112.) Is it not an act of deli- 
berate dishonesty to pass such a law as this, or to exhibit it when 
passed, as a law for abolishing the driving- whip ? 

We mean to reserve, for another occasion, some remarks we shall have 
to make on the gross violations of the laws humanely passed, by His 
Majesty's government, to regulate and restrain arbitrary punishments, 
which have taken place in the Crown Colonies, notwithstanding 
the appointment of Protectors. In the mean time, we have said 
enough on the subject, as it respects the chartered colonies, to in- 
validate the testimony of our forty-one West India proprietors, in 
favour of the humanity of the planters, and of their " fitness to make 
laws for the benefit of their bondsmen." 

5. The next point in order, is " the separation of families." But 
although our forty-one subscribers mention the subject, by way of 
swelling, we presume, the number of alleged ameliorations, yet they 
do not pretend to affirm that any thing effectual has been done to cure 
this evil. All they venture to say upon it is, that " where a levy shall 
be made of a family or families, each family shall be sold together 
and in one lot." This regulation, however, is most obviously nuga- 



304 West Indian Manifesto — Separation of. Families. 

tory, so long as levies are permitted without regard to family ties, and 
more especially, so long as there is no law to prohibit the separation 
of families by private sale. 

Mr. Burge, the agent of Jamaica, had indeed the extraordinary 
hardihood, on the 15th of April last, to affirm in his place in the 
House of Commons, that separations by private sale were not per- 
mitted in Jamaica. But the falsehood of this assertion was com- 
pletely established by Lord Howick, who exhibited an intimate 
acquaintance with this and other parts of the Colonial question, which, 
considering the short time he had been in office, excited our surprise 
and admiration. His Lordship challenged Mr. Burge to " point out 
any clause of any law, in the whole statute book of Jamaica, in which the 
practice in question was denounced and proscribed." Mr. Burge, un- 
able to meet this challenge, boldly resorted to the subterfuge of saying 
that, " the Courts of lawwould set aside the sale;" but this he said with- 
out being able to produce a single instance in proof of his allegation, 
although the case of separation by private sales is one of constant 
occurrence in Jamaica. Mr. Burge too, be it remembered, was actu- 
ally the Attorney General of Jamaica, and a member of its legislature, 
in December 1826, when it was proposed in the Assembly, by Mr. 
Batty, "That it shall not be lawful in cases of sale" (making no dis- 
tinction between voluntary sales by the master and sales under legal 
process) " to separate married people from each other, or from their 
issue if under ten years of age, provided the parties belong to the 
same owner ; and it shall not be lawful for any collecting constable, 
the provost marshal, or any of his deputies, to levy upon, or sell 
them separately." This clause, however, was rejected ; and the only 
provision made on the subject was this, that on levies, in execution, 
if mothers and children under ten years of age are seized together 
they shall be sold together. Some of the speeches on this occasion 
throw much light on the state of feeling among the legislators of Ja- 
maica. Mr. Brown said, it would be very hard upon a man who 
owed a small sum of £50 to have a whole family sold by the marshal. 
(The hardship to the slave, was made no account of.) In reply to 
Mr. Batty, Mr. Hilton observed (and his opinion prevailed in the 
assembly) " that it would be violating the rights of property to dictate 
to the master how he should dispose of it : he had a right to sell one 
or more of his slaves, according to his wants and inclinations, in the 
same way as he had to dispose of any. other property. The proposed 
clause, therefore, he considered as an invasion of property." (Royal 
Gazette of Jamaica, December 1826.) 

Now Mr. Burge, we should think, must have been aware of these 
occurrences, when, trusting to the ignorance prevailing in the House 
of Commons as to the details of Colonial questions, he ventured to 
contradict Lord Howick respecting the liability of families to be 
separated by private sale, or to affirm that the Courts of law in Ja- 
maica would annul such sale. It is difficult to conceive how he, at 
least, could have uttered either the denial, or the affirmation, in igno- 
rance of its truth or its falsehood. 

But can it then be true that the different legislatures of the British 



Manumission — Slave Evidence. 305 

Colonies should, for eight long years, have contumaciously refused 
to adopt any effectual measures for rectifying this crying evil of forci- 
bly separating husband and wife, parent and child by sale, for the 
convenience, or at the caprice, of an owner ; and that forty-one 
English gentlemen, holding respectable stations in society, and some 
of them members of the British Parliament, should be found to come 
forward before the public to praise the humanity of such legislators, 
and to guarantee their "fitness to make laws for the benefit of their 
bondsmen ?" Such is the fact, though it is almost too bad for 
belief. t 

6. Our forty-one gentlemen have taken the trouble of raising a 
head for " Manumission ;" but this could not have been with any 
hope to establish the claim of the legislators of the West Indies, to be 
regarded as willing to comply with the suggestions of His Majesty's 
government on this point; since all they have said and done, 
respecting it, has only served to prove their determination wholly to 
refuse to the slave the right of self-redemption invito domino. On 
this subject, indeed, Mr. Burge astonished the House of Commons 
by boldly and broadly asserting that slaves were a freehold pro- 
perty, which it was unjust to compel a master to dispose of against 
his will. "This observation," said Lord Howick in his able reply, 
" shocked me more than I can describe. Is. it not the ordinary 
practice of the British legislature to compel a man to dispose of 
his own freehold property when it is for the public convenience ? 
Does he mean to say it is unfair to make a man part with his 
slave for the value of that slave, when we every day compel a man to 
part with his property for the mere convenience of the public? When 
for constructing a rail-road or a turnpike- road, we compel any man to 
sell property which he has neither acquired nor held by guilt, or with 
a shadow of injustice, and this too on the mere ground of convenience, 
is it to be said that we are to be barred from pursuing the same course 
when justice is concerned, and when the subject of compulsory sale 
is that which no man can have acquired, or can retain, innocently — 
the freedom of an unoffending slave — the birthright of every human 
being? I did hear with astonishment this argument of the hon. and 
learned gentleman, and though it excited a great sensation in the 
House, I wonder it was not infinitely greater."- — It was impossible for 
any liberal mind to listen to the manly and indignant expostulation 
of the noble lord without a thrill of delight. 

7. The next head of vindication and apology refers to the " Evi- 
dence'" of slaves. Of the law on this general subject, as it exists in 
our chartered Colonies, we know not that we could give a more ac- 
curate view than will be found in our third volume, No* 65, p. 370, viz. 
" Of the chartered Colonies, Grenada and Tobago have admitted the 
evidence of slaves without restriction. In the others the restrictions 
imposed on that admission are of such a nature as to render their 
apparent concessions perfectly futile and valueless." Our forty-one 
gentlemen, however, seem disposed to falsify this statement. Not con^ 
tent with affirming the fact, which we gladly admit, of the unrestricted 
admission of slave evidence in Grenada and Tobago, they assert, fo/f 

2 Q 



306 West Indian Manifesto — Slave Evidence. 

example, that, by the law of St. Vincent, " Slave evidence, except 
against owners, is admissible, as in the case of free persons." Now 
that our readers may judge of the misrepresentation which is in- 
volved in that assertion, we will here transcribe Lord Bathurst's com- 
ment upon this law in his despatch of April 3, 1827, "The law (viz. 
the law of slave evidence) excludes," says his Lordship, " the evidence 
of unbaptized slaves, and of slaves baptized by any ministers dissen- 
ting from the established Church. — It also excludes all slaves not suf- 
ficiently known to some clergyman" (a dissenting teacher will not do) 
" to obtain from him a certificate of their good character and repute, 
and of their being sufficiently instructed in the principles of religion 
to understand the nature of an oath. — What is still more objection- 
able is the necessity of obtaining a certificate to the same effect from 
the proprietor or his attorney, which will prevent the slave being heard 
as a witness in any case where the proprietor or attorney has a motive 
for preventing it. — The slave cannot be admitted as a witness in any 
civil case, and even in criminal prosecutions, he cannot be heard 
against his owner, or manager, or his delegates. — The testimony of a 
single slave, though supported by the clearest circumstantial evidence, 
or even by the testimony of another witness of free condition, would 
not, under this act, be sufficient for a conviction. — No public record 
is established for registering the names of slaves competent to give 
evidence." (Papers by command, part ii. p. 112.) Now our forty-one 
gentlemen, though they must have been aware that the law had been 
thus described by His Majesty's Secretary of State, yet, without 
adverting to any one of the many potent objections he had urged 
against it, give to the legislature of St. Vincent full credit for com- 
pliance with the suggestions of the Government, and describe this 
evasive and futile enactment in the untrue and deceptive terms we 
have already quoted.* 



* We are here forcibly reminded of a very recent attempt, of the same kind, 
to mislead parliament on the subject of Colonial Slavery, made by the body of 
Colonial agents in this country, and of which, on account of its character, it 
seems desirable to preserve some reminiscence. 

A paper of forty-six folio pages was laid on the table of the House of Com- 
mons, and by that House ordered to be printed, on the 28th of March, 1831, 
entitled, " Slave-laws : West Indies," and numbered 301. Notwithstanding its 
size, it passed through the press with extraordinary celerity, and was in the 
hands of members on the following morning. This paper was naturally pre- 
sumed to be some important official document, which government had deemed it 
their duty to furnish, in the utmost haste, previously to the discussion on Colo- 
nial Slavery, which stood for the very day of its appearance, namely, the 29th of 
March. On looking beyond the first page, however, the attentive reader dis- 
covered, to his no small surprise, that this paper, though bearing, on its exterior, 
some marks of authority, was no official document, but a paper prepared by the 
West India agents, and having been transmitted by one of their number to 
Lord Goderich, was then moved for in the House of Commons, evidently in 
the hope that, in this transition through the colonial department, it would somehow 
or other acquire, in the eyes at least of superficial readers, a character of authori- 
ty, and, reaching them on the very morning of the approaching debate, might 
influence the votes of many ; while opponents would have no time to examine 



Attempt of Colonial Agents to mislead Parliament. 307 

Equally ineffective to its purpose is the new legislation, on the subject 
of slave evidence, of Jamaica, as well as that of the other Colonies, 
with the exceptions already mentioned. On the law respecting it in 
the Jamaica Act of 1826 (being the same as in the Act of 1831), Mr. 
Huskisson, with his characteristic good sense, thus comments : " It ap- 
pears to contemplate the admission of the evidence of slaves in those 
cases of crimes only in which they are usually the actors or the sufferers, 



and expose this new and artful contrivance for giving, to fallacious party state- 
ments, an official aspect. A suspicion of this kind appears to have suggested 
itself to the mind of Lord Goderich ; and, to prevent his being implicated in a 
proceeding so manifestly unfair and disingenuous, he instructed Lord Howick, 
to give due notice of its real nature to all who might otherwise have been 
deceived by it. Accordingly, the pseudo-official paper was prefaced by a letter 
from Lord Howick to the Colonial agents, telling them, and through them the 
House of Commons, that Lord Goderich felt it necessary, " for the prevention of 
any possible misconception," that he should distinctly apprise them, that Lord 
Goderich declined to express any opinion respecting the accuracy of the various 
" Abst?-acts" which they had thus transmitted ; — and that his Lordship could 
not too distinctly explain, that they were invested with no official authority, but 
must be regarded only as expressing the opinions of the individuals from whom 
they emanated. 

Notwithstanding this prompt and honourable proceeding on the part of Lord 
Goderich, some effect might have been produced by this paper had Mr. Bux- 
ton's motion actually come on, as it was intended, on the 29th of March ; but its 
unexpected postponement to the loth of April, afforded the requisite time for 
discovering the disingenuousness of the proceeding, and for exposing the gross 
misrepresentations whicli the paper contained. 

This elaborate work of these agents commences with an Abstract of the 
Slave law of St. Vincent's of December, 1825, accompanied by an apparently 
studied and deliberate misstatement, on the part of the framers, of the sentiments 
of his Majesty's Secretary of State respecting it. 

" Upon this bill," the agents state, that " the Secretary of State for the colonies 
made the following observations, in a letter to the governor of St. Vincent, dated 
3rd of April, 1827 : 'His Majesty has observed with satisfaction, the progress 
made by these enactments in the measures to be taken for the improvement o. 
the state of the slave population. Upon a review of the whole of the law, I am 
commanded by his Majesty to express his satisfaction with the general disposi- 
tion of the council and assembly to adopt the recommendation addressed to 
them on this important subject.' " 

Now it cannot be denied that these identical words occur in the Despatch 
of the Secretary of State of the 3d April 1827, (inserted in the papers presented to 
Parliament by his Majesty's command in 1827, part ii. pp. 110 — 114;) one 
half of them being part of the first sentence at the commencement of that 
Despatch, and the other half part of a sentence at the close of it ; — between 
which two detached sentences, three folio pages and a half of observations inter- 
vene, of a wholly different character, which the fiamers of the "Abstract" not only 
do not quote, but do not even allude to in the very slightest degree ! Thus, 
therefore, do they leave, nay, almost force, the reader to infer, that they have fairly 
exhibited the judgment of the Secretary of State respecting this law, and that 
that judgment is one of unmingled approbation. Whether this was fairly 
intended will be best understood by looking at the intermediate observations of. 
the noble Secretary, Earl Bathurst, consisting of a series of severe animadver- 
sions on the different clauses of the Act in question. " His Majesty," says the 



303 West Indian Manifesto — Slave Evidence. 

excluding their evidence in other cases," (indeed in all other criminal 
and in all civil cases*) " a distinction which does not seem to rest on 
any sound foundation. — There is not any necessary connexion between 
the baptism of a witness and his credibility. — The rule which requires 
that two slaves shall consistently depose to the same fact, on being 
examined apart, before any free person can be convicted on slave 
testimony, will greatly diminish the value of the general rule : In 
some cases, as that of rape, such a restriction might secure impunity 
to offenders of the worst description. — The rejection of the testimony 
of slaves twelve months after the commission of the crime would be 
fatal to the ends of justice in many cases; nor is it easy to discover 
what solid advantage could result from it in any case. — If the owner 
of a slave is convicted of any crime on the testimony of that slave, the 
Court has no power of declaring the slave free, though it may exer- 
cise that power when it proceeds on other evidence. — Highly import- 
ant as it is to deprive a slave of every motive for giving false testimony 
against his owner, that object might be secured without incurring the 
inconvenience of leaving the slave in the power of an owner convicted 
of the extreme abuse of his authority. — In rejecting the proposal for a 
record of the names of all slaves sufficiently instructed to be compe- 



noble Secretary of State, " has observed with satisfaction the progress made by 
these enactments, in the measures to be taken for the improvement of the state of 
the slave papulation." Thus far the quotation is correct ; but the agents 
omit entirely the latter half of the same sentence which runs as follows : — 
ft But it is at the same time my duly to remind you, that there are several 
measures which t though recommended in the instructions approved by the two 
Houses of Parliament, are either entirely omitted in the bill, or are imperfectly 
accomplished ; and that, unless the legislature of St. Vincent's take them into 
their serious consideration, and make some further provision on these subjects, they 
will not have satisfied the expectations of Parliament and the public." (Papers 
by command, 1827. Part ii. p. 110.) Such is the whole of this garbled sentence. — 
Then follow the severe and lengthened animadversions to which we have 
alluded, and the substance of which may be found in the Anti-Slavery Re- 
porter, Vol. ii, No. 29, p. 116. At the conclusion of them come the words which 
the agents have again garbled to make out their case of approbation by tire 
King's Government. The words they have taken are : " Upon a review of the 
whole law, I am commanded by his Majesty, to express his satisj'action with the 
general disposition of the Council and Assembly to adopt the recommendations 
ivhich have been addressed to them on this important subject." What follows of 
the sentence the agents have prudently suppressed ; namely, " But I have it 
further in command to signify to you, that his Majesty's expectations will not be 
satisfied until the law has been revised and amended with reference to the observa- 
tions contained in my present despatch." (Ibid.) But this is only one of a 
multitude of apparently studied misrepresentations which this pretended " Ab- 
stract" contains ; — a charge we are perfectly ready to substantiate, when called 
upon to do so. 

* The only crimes even, in the trial of which their hampered and restricted 
evidence can be given, are, murder, felony, burglary, robbery, rebellion, treason, 
rape; mutilating, dismembering, branding, or cruelly treating a slave ; seditious 
meetings, and the harbouring of runaways. 



Slave's Right of Property and Action. 309 

tent witnesses, the legislature appear to have neglected the means of 
providing a cheap and effectual encouragement to good conduct, and 
of investing the religious teachers of slaves with a powerful and legi- 
timate influence over them." 

With such unanswerable objections to the wisdom and efficiency of 
this law, the West Indians have little reason to boast of it. But they give 
also an untrue view of its provisions. They say of it that it admits 
the evidence of slaves in all criminal cases against all persons ; 
whereas it only admits that evidence in some cases; and they wholly 
omit to mention some of the most injurious of the restrictions speci- 
fied by Mr. Huskisson. — Certainly the Jamaica Assemblv furnish no 
proof, in this act of legislation, which has been the subject of their 
renewed deliberation for five or six years, of their "fitness to make 
laws for the benefit of their bondsmen." — What hope, moreover, can 
exist of a pure and effective administration of justice, where nine-tenths 
of the community are placed under so many harassing and degra- 
ding distinctions, as to their right of giving evidence in Courts of 
justice ? And yet such is the strange perverseness of our Colonial 
legislators that their laws admit the evidence of a single slave 
unbaptized and unsworn, to convict a fellow slave even in capital 
cases, and to doom him to die by the hand of the executioner. 

8. The representations of the forty -one distinguished individuals 
who have come forward on this occasion, are, if possible, still more 
wide of the truth, under the next head of pretended reform, namely, 
the slave's " Right of property and Right of action.'' 1 Their state- 
ment, in the case of St. Vincent, for example, is as follows : and as 
it varies little from their corresponding statements respecting Ja- 
maica and the other chartered colonies, we may take it as the basis 
of our remarks : — 

§ 5. " Secures to slaves the possession of personal property,* and 
guards against its invasion by a fine of £10 (currency), over and above 
the property taken from them." 

To exhibit the whole deceptiveness of this statement, it will be 
necessary to transcribe the very words of this fifth clause, differing 
in nothing material from the corresponding clause in the Acts of Ja- 
maica and of other colonies. 

" And whereas by the usage of these Islands slaves have been per- 
mitted to acquire, hold, and enjoy personal property, free from the 
control or interference of their owners; and it is expedient that such 
laudable custom should be continued and established by law ; be it 
therefore enacted, That if any owner or possessor of any slave, or 
any other person whatsoever, shall unlawfully take away from any 
slave, or in any way deprive, or cause him to be deprived, of any 
species of personal property by him lawfully possessed or acquired ; 
such person shall forfeit and pay the sum of £10, over and above the 
value of any such property, so taken away as aforesaid ; the same to 

* Under the head of Jamaica, the " Abstract" says, that the law " establishes 
the right of slaves to personal property." The two statements are substantially 
the same. 

■2q2 



310 Vest Indian Manifesto. 

be recovered by warrant under the hand and seal of the justice of 
the peace before whom the complaint shall be laid and the facts 
proved." 

That the full measure of the evasion, deliberately practised in 
this enactment, may be duly appeciated by the reader, it will be 
proper to place in juxtaposition the 24th clause of the Trinidad 
Order of March, 1824, which was evidently before the eves of the le- 
gislature of St. Vincent's, as well as before the eyes of the legisla- 
tures of the other Colonies, at the time their new Acts were framed. 

§ 24. "And ichereas by the usage of Trinidad slaves have hitherto 
been reputed competent in the law, and have in fact been permitted 
to acquire, hold, and enjoy property, free from the control or inter- 
ference of their owners ; and it is expedient uhat the said laudable 
custom should be recognized and established by laic, and that pro- 
vision should be made for enabling such slaves to invest such their 
property on good security ; be it therefore ordered, that no person in 
the Island of Trinidad, being in a state of slavery, shall be, or be 
deemed, or taken to be, by reason or on account of such his condi- 
tion, incompetent to purchase, acquire, possess, hold, enjoy, alienate, 
and dispose of property ; but every such slave shall, and is hereby 
declared to be, competent to purchase, acquire, possess, hold, enjoy, 
alierjate, and dispose of lands, or money, cattle, implements or uten- 
sils of husbandry, or household furniture or other effects of such or 
the like nature, of what value or amount soever; and to bring, main- 
tain, prosecute and defend any suitor action, in any court of justice, 
for or in respect of such property, as fully and amply, to all intents 
and purposes, as if he were of free condition." And by another 
clause (§ 8.) the Protector is empowered and required in all such 
cases to act for the slave and on his behalf. (Papers by command, 
1824, p. 151. > 

The corresponding terms in the two enactments are given in 
italics : a perusal of the whole will, therefore, at once exhibit, in full 
view, the evasive tenor of the affected imitation of the Trinidad law 
on this subject. 

For the deceptive preamble to this enactment the legislatures of 
the chartered colonies stand, in some measure, excused by the example 
of the Trinidad Code. But that the statement it contains is incorrect, 
is abundantly proyed by the official Report of His Majesty's Com- 
missioner of Legal Inquiry, Mr. Dwarris, himself a considerable pro- 
prietor of slaves in Jamaica. That gentleman tells us, that neither 
in Barbadoes. Grenada, Tobago, St. Vincent, Dominica, Antigua, St. 
Christopher, Nevis, nor Tortola, the nine islands he visited, can slaves 
acquire any property by law, except for the benefit of their masters ; 
nor can they claim any redress for injuries done them, either by their 
master, or his delegate, or even by third parties, except through the 
master.* And when in the last of his Reports, the third, at p. 106, 

* See Mr. Dwarris's First Report, No. 587 of 1825, pp. 67, 90, 222, 223. 
Second Report, No. 276 of 1826, pp. 250, 251. 252. Third Report, No. 36 of 
1826—7, pp. 13, 87. 



Slave's Right of Property and Action. 311 

he comes to sum up the whole of the evidence respecting the slave's 
legal rights of property, he thus expresses himself: "The slaves now 
labour under prodigious disadvantages. A slave is under a personal 
disability, and cannot sue in any court of law or equity, not even in 
respect of injuries done to him by other slaves. A slave cannot pro- 
secute in the criminal courts. A slave cannot enter into a recog- 
nizance." " Slave evidence is not admitted against freemen, white or 
black, even against wrong-doers. In those cases," (namelv, against 
fellow-slaves,) "where slave evidence is admitted, it verv often is not 
upon oath." " If the property of a slave is taken from him, he can- 
not personally seek redress. His master, it is said, may bring tres- 
pass. This, however, is very insufficient; for he also may not ; and 
if he does, and none but slaves are present at the infliction of the 
injury, as is likely to be the case, there is no satisfactory proof of the 
fact. The owner, suing for his slave, must establish his case by com- 
petent evidence, and cannot prove the fact by persons under legal disa- 
bilities." Mr. Dwarris then goes on to prove, bv other considerations, 
that from the non-admissibility of slave evidence, " the slave is left 
defenceless," and concludes the whole thus: "From all we saw in all 
the islands, it wasthe^rw conviction of His Majesty's Commissioners, 
that the foundation of every improvement, both as regards the white 
and black population of these colonies, must be laid in an improved 
administration of justice, and in the admission of slave evidence. " s 

It may even be true, that in many, if not most cases, the slaves 
are allowed to enjoy their pecidium without direct control or inter- 
ference ; but this by no means affects the question of law. And, as 
Mr. Dwarris himself properly intimates, the question for the legisla- 
tor is not what is done, but what may be done, in a case of this de- 
scription. And that it is always in the power of the master, and may 
often be in his inclination, to disturb his slave's enjoyment of property, 
is unquestionable. He may do so every time he chooses to sell his 
slave, or to permit him (a very frequent occurrence) to be levi«d 
upon for debt or for taxes. He does so whenever he drives him, by 
severity, to run away, or whenever, by engrossing his time, he deprives 
him of the power of attending to his stock or to his grounds. He 
may, and often does, take from him his grounds, and he may, and 
often does, kill his stock, without the possibility of redress. (See 
House-of-Commons Papers for 1825, No. 476, p. 45, and for 1826, 
No. 401, p. 17.) In the Report of the Berbice Fiscal, we find the slaves 
of an estate complaining that the overseer had killed all their hogs. 



* Even in Trinidad, before the new Code of 1824 was framed, this same 
gendeman and Mr. Jabez Henry, acting as Commissioners of Legal Inquiry in 
that Island, had ascertained as follows : ' The judge of criminal inquiry said, 
that a slave could acquire property for his own benefit;' but the chief justice was 
of a contrary opinion ; for he said, ' a slate cannot, by the Spanish law, acquire 
any property, except for the benefit of his master.' * In case of property in the 
possession of a slave, whether belonging to himself or his master, being vrrong- 
fully taken from him, it is only recoverable by the owner.' (House-of-Commons 
Papers for 1827, No. 551, p. 29.) 



312 West Indian Committee — Slave's Right of Property. 

One man, Leander, had ten hogs killed at one time by the manager, 
and for complaining of this act he was put in the stocks. The Fiscal, 
to whom Leander complained, regrets this harsh proceeding ; which 
he does not however punish or redress, but rather extenuates. Here 
we have, probably, the accumulations of Leander's whole life 
destroyed, in one hour, by the merciless and irresistible ac t of the 
petty despot of the plantation; and for this injury there was no redress ! 
— (Ibid.) 

But besides the insecurity of his property, (for property must 
necessarily always be insecure in those circumstances of personal de- 
pendance and civil disability under which the slave is placed,) the 
slave is actually prohibited, even by this vaunted law of St. Vincent, 
§§81 and 82, from dealing in " sugar, cotton, rum, molasses, cocoa, 
coffee, or other goods, or merchandize of any sort, except firewood, 
fish, poultry, goats, hogs, grass, fruit and vegetables."* Indeed, in 
the colonies having legislatures of their own, the clauses that have 
been introduced into their new codes, on the subject of the property 
of slaves, are no more than an evasion of the recommendations of 
His Majesty. They set out, in general, with a preamble, like that of 
St. Vincent, affirming that, by custom, slaves have been allowed to 
possess and enjoy personal property. After this preamble, it might 
have been expected, that that would have been made their right by 
law, which, it is stated, had formerly been enjoyed by permission and 
sufferance. The enactment which generally follows, however, is, not 
that such custom shall be established by law, but that if any master, 
or other person, shall unlawfully take away from a slave, or deprive 
him of, what he may be lawfully possessed of, such person (not shall 
be punished as a felon, but) shall forfeit ten pounds currency (less 
than five pounds sterling), over and above the value of the property. 
We are not even told how a slave may lawfully possess property, nor 
is any legal title to it conferred upon him. No means of suit are 
afforded him, and he is generally debarred from giving evidence in all 
civil actions. In short, with scarcely an exception, the provisions on 
this point are, it is again maintained, a mere evasion of the king's re- 
commendation, and leave the slave in the same helpless and unpro- 
tected state, as to all essential rights of property, as he was before 
those provisions were enacted. 

The insidious clause which we have quoted from the St. Vincent's 
Act, on the subject of the slave's rights of property, and which is 
nearly word for word the same as that of Jamaica, obviously effects 
a complete revolution in the laws of theft and robbery, as they 
respect the property of a slave, which would, of itself, be fatal to 
his security. But the slave possesses, by law, no rights of property, 
for most assuredly this clause gives him none ; while it effectually 
excludes him by its very terms from acquiring any interest in land, — 
a restriction which is at once harsh, impolitic, and unnecessary. 

* The law is nearly the same in all the colonies, whether crown or chartered; 
and a most iniquitous law it is, independently of its being inconsistent with any 
valuable right of property in the slave. 



Legal Protection of Slaves. 313 

Of Jamaica it is further affirmed, by our forty -one West Indians, 
that § 16, " secures to slaves the right to receive bequests of private 
property." Never was there a clause framed which more strikingly 
exemplifies the evasive spirit of colonial legislation than this; for to 
the barren recognition of the right in question is annexed the follow- 
ing sweeping proviso : — " Provided always that nothing herein con- 
tained shall be deemed to authorise the institution of any action or 
suit at law or in equity, for the recovery of such legacy, or to render 
it necessary to make any slave a defendant in a suit of equity." 
And even the law of Tobago on this point, though it advances more 
nearly than any other to the model of the Crown Colonies, yet is ren- 
dered almost equally inoperative with that of Jamaica, by the want 
of a Protector, or of any authorised channel for vindicating the slave's 
rights of property. 

Surely, surely, here are no proofs either of the humanity of the 
planters, or of their alleged " fitness to make laws for the benefit of 
their bondsmen," but proof- enough of studied evasion, and of deli- 
berate and flagrant misrepresentation. 

9. The only remaining head of the " Abstract" drawn up by these 
forty-one gentlemen, which it remains for us formally to notice, in the 
way of exposure and refutation, bears the title of " Legal Protection." 

The Secretary of state had required, as the only effectual means of 
securing " legal protection" to the slaves, that a Protector and Guar- 
dian of slaves should be appointed, who should not be a proprietor of 
slaves, or interested in slave property. The fulfilment of this pro- 
posal is thus announced in the " Abstract." St. Vincent, § 25 : — 
" Magistrates, a Council of Protection. On receiving information of ill- 
treatment of slaves, they are bound to inquire, and, if the complaint 
be well founded, to prosecute." Jamaica, § 33 : — In cases of mal- 
treatment of slaves, " Justices and vestry to be a council of protec- 
tion to prosecute offenders/' — and so with slight variations in other 
colonies. 

It seems scarcely necessary to expose this stale and idle pretence, 
this mockery, of protection, by which the very persons to be guarded 
against, the owners or managers of estates, are themselves consti- 
tuted the legal guardians of the slaves. Indeed the very clauses which 
are here referred to, and which also are not new but old laws, 
are so feebly and inadequately framed, as rather to deprive the 
slave of the means of protection, than to secure it for him. In case 
any justice of the peace shall receive a complaint that any slave has 
been wantonly or improperly punished, then such justice may asso- 
ciate to himself another justice, who may proceed to inquire, &c. ; 
and having inquired, and found the complaint true, " it shall be the 
duty of such justices, and they are required, to prosecute the offender 
according to law ; " or, if the complaint be found groundless, to pun- 
ish the complainant with thirty-nine lashes, &c. : and all this is to be 
done by these two justices without penalty, or responsibility, or 
record, or report whatsoever. Was there ever such a barefaced im- 
position on parliament and the public as to call this protection ? To 
prove this, it would be sufficient to refer to the uniform principle 



314 West India Manifesto — Legal Protection. 

maintained by government, of placing, in all the Crown Colonies, the 
office of Guardian and Protector of slaves solely in the hands of men 
disconnected with slavery. 

But let us hear the judgment of Mr. Commissioner Dwarris, when 
speaking of this very clause ; for it stood in the St. Vincent's Act of 
1821, as it does in that of 1825, and in the Jamaica Act of 1816, as 
in that of 1831. There is " no other magistracy, board, or council, 
to discharge the delicate duty of investigating the complaints of 
slaves (whether of cruelty, oppression, excess of work, or subtraction 
or deficiency of food or clothing,) except the attorneys or managers 
of estates. Hence the salutary provisions of the Slave Act are in 
danger of being rendered ineffectual." (House-of-Commons Papers, 
No. 276 of 1826, p. 24.) — One magistrate testifies to the commis- 
sioner, that he recollected only two complaints of slaves for ill-usage 
in three years- (lb. p. 23.) Can this be matter of surprise, when 
thirty-nine lashes are ready for the unsuccessful complainant ? 

It is impossible to place in a clearer light, the uselessness of such 
provisions as those which are now boasted of by our forty-one sub- 
scribers to the manifesto, than has been done by Mr. Huskisson in his 
despatch of September 22, 1827. "The council of protection," he 
says, " cannot be considered an effectual substitute for the office of a 
distinct and independent protector. It will consist of those indivi- 
duals over whom the protector was to exercise his superintendance. 
Their duties are limited to the single case of extreme bodily injury, 
and are to be discharged only if they think proper. The periodical 
returns required from the protector upon oath are not to be made by 
this council, nor are they even bound to keep a record of their pro- 
ceedings. No provision is made for executing the duties of the office 
in different parts of the colony, on fixed and uniform principles ; 
and the number of persons united in this trust is such as to destroy 
the sense of personal and individual responsibility." 

The truth is, that Jamaica, Barbadoes, St. Vincent, and the other 
colonies, under the name of legal protection to the slaves, have ac- 
tually contrived to give protection and immunity to the oppressors of 
the slaves. Against whom is protection for the slaves required ? I& 
it not against their masters and managers ? But to whom is their 
protection confided by the legislatures of Jamaica, &c. ? To these 
very masters and managers, who, in fact, compose the entire of the 
magistracy, and of the parish vestries. Surely the term protection does 
not necessarily involve the .principle of protection. On the contrary, 
it involves, under the laws we are considering, the extinction of that 
principle : for if the purpose had been to divest the slaves of all pro- 
tection, no more effectual device could have been framed for ac- 
complishing that object, than the insidious enactment in question. 

Nor, we apprehend, are we singular in this opinion. If we mistake 
not, such is the clear and unambiguous judgment of Lord Howick, as 
expressed in his powerful speech, on the 15th of April last, in reply to 
Mr. Burge, the late Attorney General and the present agent of 
Jamaica, and one of the avowed framers of one at least of the falla- 
cious abstracts we have been examining. " Of the many extraordinary 



Lord Howick on the Legal Protection of Slaves. 315 

propositions," (proceeding from Mr. Bufge,) "none astonished me so 
much," said his lordship, " as the remark that in Jamaica the council 
of protection answered the same purposes as 'a protector;' for I 
thought I knew, on very competent authority, that councils of pro- 
tection were no substitute for the office of protector, as established in 
the Crown Colonies. It so happens that in the year 1826, Lord 
Bathurst sent out the heads of certain bills, formed on the older in 
council, which he wished to be regularly drawn up by the law officers 
of the crown, and laid before the different Assemblies. To the draft 
of a bill appointing a protector, which was accordingly prepared by 
the law officers of Jamaica, was appended the following note signed 
by William Burge, Attorney General, and Hugo James, Advocate 
General : * We have not considered ourselves called upon to notice 
in the draft of this bill, either by way of repeal or otherwise, that part 
of the 25th section of the consolidated slave law, which constitutes 
the justices and vestry of each parish a council of protection, because 
the duties assigned to that body are of a nature perfectly distinct 
from those which are committed to the protector and guardian oj 
slaves by the provisions of this bill.' I fully concur," added his lord- 
ship^, "in this opinion, and I think it most able and just. A council 
of protection is a mere device for dividing the responsibility among a 
number of individuals ; it is a protection to the oppressor, not to the 
oppressed. A numerous council of planters can venture to stifle pro- 
secutions which would be instituted were the responsibility of re- 
fusing to do so to rest on a single individual only. I firmly believe 
that in the case of Kitty Hilton, a case which I have recently been 
■compelled to lay on the table of the House with mingled feelings of 
regret and shame and horror, I firmly believe that no one of those 
individuals who voted as members of the council of protection, and, 
by a large majority, declared against a prosecution, would have come 
to such a decision if he had been called upon singly to pronounce 
upon the case : he would have feared to incur the undivided responsi- 
bility." 

But be it remembered that Kitty Hilton's case is but one out of 
many which have lately encumbered the table of the House of Com- 
mons, in proof of the utter worthlessness of these boasted councils of 
protection, and of the utter unfitness therefore of the planters to 
make laws for the benefit of their slaves. We will not now enter 
further into them than to refer the reader to the following passages 
which have recently appeared in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, viz : 
vol. hi. No. 64, p. 341 and 345 ; No. 66, p. 373 ; No. 68, p. 416 and 
419 ; No. 69, p. 429—441 ; No. 71, p. 481—495 ;— vol. iv. No. 76, 
p. 134—136; and No. 79, p. 246. 

But this is not all. Every packet which arrives from the western 
world comes fraught with fresh tidings of horror to the same effect, 
and the difficulty we now feel pressing upon us is to find time and 
space for communicating to our readers the accumulated proofs of 
the inveterate and incurable evils of slavery, and especially of that state 
of utter destitution of legal protection, in which the slaves are un- 
happily placed, by leaving the work of legislating for them, a work 



316 West Indian Manifesto — Conclusion. 

for which parliament alone is competent, to be performed by the 
planters. 

We have thus gone through the principal heads of the " Abstract" 
on which the West Indians found their claim, not only to the for- 
bearance but to the confidence of the parliament and people of 
England, and' we think we have proved that it is so far from sup- 
porting that claim, that it furnishes the very strongest demonstra- 
tion of the unfitness of the planters to legislate for their slaves, and 
that it is only by the direct intervention of Parliament that any effec- 
tual remedy can be applied to the evils of colonial bondage. And 
yet we have left wholly unnoticed a multitude of mistatements con- 
tained in this Abstract, which are either the blunders of ignorance, 
or the wilful perversions of fact. It would be endless to notice even 
a tythe of these. On a future occasion we may resume the subject. 

But before we conclude, we are anxious to remind our readers 
that this " Abstract" exhibits to them only what our forty -one gen- 
tlemen deem the favourable side of West Indian legislation. We 
cannot commend their taste, indeed, in the selection. Still their 
object was to give us a succinct view of those Colonial improvements; — 
of those beauties in short of Colonial legislation, which raise the slave's 
enjoyments far above those of the British peasant, and which are to 
serve as convincing proofs that the West Indians were maligned and 
slandered by the Anti-Slavery Society when it pronounced them 
" unfit and unwilling to frame laws for the benefit of their bondsmen," 
and affirmed that it was a task which could only be effectually ac- 
complished " by the direct intervention of Parliament." Had they 
chosen to give, not only what they regard as the light side of the 
picture but the dark side also ; to give iu short, a just, impartial, and 
unsophisticated whole length portrait, as it were, of the entire legal 
condition and liabilities of the Colonial slave, it would form a pretty 
exact counterpart, or rather amplification, of another Manifesto, 
namely, the Anti -Slavery Manifesto, dated the 1st of October, 1830, 
entitled " a Brief View of the nature and effects of Negro Slavery 
as it exists in the Colonies," with copies of which the forty-one 
authors of the West Indian Manifesto may be supplied on application 
at the Anti-Slavery office. 



V 



This and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their Office, 
18, Alder manbury ; mat Messrs. Hatchard's, i87, Piccadilly, and Arctis, Corn- 
hill. They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the 
Anti-Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London : S. Bagstxr, Jun. Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 

2.. ' / 



