

THE 




EMANCIPATION OF THE NEGROES 



BRITISH WEST INDIES. 



AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT CONCORD, MASSACHUSETTS, 
ON 1st AUGUST 1844. 



I 



) 



R. W. EMERSON. 




" Fetters, chains, monopolies, thefts, sales, statutes, all engines of tyranny, 
men have found insufficient to annihilate freedom, for the good reason, that 
they cannot annihilate the Soul, whose first law of being is freedom. Despite 
of lies which the ages have told, of tyrannies which the ages have established, 
Freedom lives imperishable." 



LONDON: 

JOHN CHAPMAN, 121. NEWGATE STREET. 




MiD€^G>^Lyy, •'.' ',' 



STEREOiyPi-J 



,,-;■,,. ^, . 'y' '' "' 




[liDlTIOK. 



^:^^\. 



>X'- 



THE 



EMANCIPATION OF THE NEGROES 



BEITISH WEST INDIES 



AX ADDRESS DELITERED AT COXCORD, MASSACHUSETTS, 
OX 1st august, 1844 



BY 



R. W. EMERSOIS". 




" Fetters, chains, monopolies, thefts, sales, statutes, all engines of tyranny, 
men have found insufficient lo annihilate freedom, for the good reason, that 
they cannot annihilate the Soul whose first law of being is freedom. Despite 
of lies which the ages have told, of tyrannies which the ages have established. 
Freedom lives imperishable." 



LONDON : 

JOHN CHAPMAN, 121, NEWGATE STREET. 



A. at3c?.3r 



LONDOK : 

I'KlJfTED BY RICHARD KINDER, GREEK ARBOUR COCRT, 
OLD BAILEY. 



ADDRESS 



Friends and Fellow-Citizens, 

We are met to exchange congratulations on the anniversary 
of an event singular in the history of civilization ; a day of 
reason ; of the clear light ; of that which makes us better 
than a flock of birds and beasts : a day which gave the im- 
mense fortification of a fact, — of gross history, — to ethical 
abstractions. It was the settlement, as far as a great empire 
was concerned, of a question on which almost every leading 
citizen in it had taken care to record his vote ; one which for 
many years absorbed the attention of the best and most emi- 
nent of mankind. I might well hesitate, coming from other 
studies, and without the smallest claim to be a special labourer 
in this work of humanity, to undertake to set this matter be- 
fore you ; which ought rather to be done by a strict co-opera- 
tion of many well-advised persons ; but I shall not apologize 
for my weakness. In this cause, no man's weakness is any 
prejudice ; it has a thousand sons ; if one man cannot speak, 
ten others can ; and whether by the wisdom of its friends, or 
by the folly of its adversaries ; by speech and by silence ; by 
doing and by omitting to do, it goes forward. Therefore I 
will speak, — or, not I, but the might of liberty in my weakness. 



4 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

The subject is said to have the property of making dull men 
eloquent. 

It has been in all men's experience a marked effect of the 
enterprise in behalf of the African, to generate an overbear- 
ing and defying spirit. The institution of slavery seems to its 
opponent to have but one side, and he feels that none but a 
stupid or a malignant person can hesitate on a view of the 
facts. Under such an impulse, I was about to say. If any 
cannot speak, or cannot hear the words of freedom, let him 
go hence, — I had almost said. Creep into your grave, the uni- 
verse has no need of you ! But I have thought better : let 
him not go. When we consider what remains to be done for 
this interest, in this country, the dictates of humanity make us 
tender of sucli as are not yet persuaded. The hardest selfish- 
ness is to be borne with. Let us withhold every reproachful, 
and, if ^\e can, every indignant remark. In this cause, we 
must renounce our temper, and the risings of pride. If there 
be any man who thinks the ruin of a race of men a small 
matter, compared with the last decoration and completions of 
his own comfort, — who would not so much as part with his 
ice-cream, to save them from rapine and manacles, I think, I 
must not hesitate to satisfy that man, that also his cream and 
vanilla are safer and cheaper, by placing the negro nation on 
a fair footing, than by robbing them. If the Virginian piques 
himself on the picturesque luxury of his vassalage, on the 
heavy Ethiopian manners of his house-servants, their silent 
obedience, their hue of bronze, their turbaned heads, and 
would not exchange them for the more intelligent but preca- 
rious hired-service of whites, I shall not refuse to show him, 
that when their free-papers are made out, it will still be their 
interest to remain on his estate, and that the oldest planters of 
Jamaica are convinced, that it is cheaper to pay wages, than to 
own the slave. 

The history of mankind interests us only as it exhibits a 
steady gain of truth and right, in the incessant conflict whicti 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. ^ 

it records, between the material and the moral nature. From 
the earliest monuments, it appears, that one race was victim, 
and served the other races. In the oldest temples of Egypt, 
negro captives are painted on the tombs of kings, in such at- 
titudes as to show that they are on the point of being exe- 
cuted; and Herodotus, our oldest historian, relates that the 
Troglodytes hunted the Ethiopians in four-horse-chariots. 
From the earliest time, the negro has been an article of 
luxury to the commercial nations. So has it been, down to 
the day that has just dawned on the world. Language must 
be raked, the secrets of slaughter-houses and infamous holes 
that cannot front the day, must be ransacked, to tell what 
negro-slavery has been. These men, our benefactors, as they 
are producers of corn and wine, of coffee, of tobacco, of cot- 
ton, of sugar, of rum, and brandy, gentle and joyous them- 
selves, and producers of comfort and luxury for the civilized 
world, — there seated in the finest climates of the globe, child- 
ren of the sun, — I am heart-sick when I read how they came 
there, and how they are kept there. Their case was left out 
of the mind and out of the heart of their brothers. The 
prizes of society, the trumpet of fame, the privileges of learn- 
ing, of culture, of religion, the decencies and joys of marriage, 
honour, obedience, personal authority, and a perpetual melio- 
ration into a finer civility, these were for all, but not for them. 
For the negro, was the slave-ship to begin with, in whose filthy 
hold he sat in irons, unable to lie down ; bad food, and insuf- 
ficiency of that ; disfranchisement ; no property in the rags 
that covered him ; no marriage, no right in the poor black 
woman that cherished him in her bosom, — no right to the 
children of his body ; no security from the humours, none 
from the crimes, none from the appetites of his master: toil, 
famine, insult, and flogging ; and, when he sunk in the fur- 
row, no wind of good fame blew over him, no priest of salva- 
tion visited him with glad tidings : but he went down to 
death, with dusky dreams of African shadow-catchers and 



b ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

Obealis hunting liim. Very sad was the negro tradiiion, that 
the Great Spirit, in the beginning, offered the black man, 
whom he loved better than the buckra or white, his choice of 
two boxes, a big and a little one. The black man was greedy, 
and chose the largest. " The buckra box was full up with 
pen, paper, and whip, and the negro box with hoe and bill ; 
and hoe and bill for negro to this day." 

But the crude element of good in human affairs must work 
and ripen, spite of whips, and plantation-laws, and West In- 
dian interest. Conscience rolled on its pillow, and could not 
sleep. We sympathize very tenderly here with the poor 
aggrieved planter, of whom so many unpleasant things are 
said ; but if we saw the whip applied to old men, to tender 
women ; and, undeniably, though 1 shrink to say so, — preg- 
nant women set in the treadmill for refusing to work, when, 
not they, but the eternal law of animal nature refused to 
work ; — if we saw men's backs flayed with cowhides, and 
" hot rum poured on, superinduced with brine or pickle, 
rubbed in with a cornhusk, in the scorching heat of the sun ;" 
— if we saw the runaways hunted with blood-hounds into 
swamps and hills, and, in cases of passion, a planter throwing 
his negro into a copper of boiling cane-juice, — if we saw 
these things with our eyes, we too should wince. They are not 
pleasant sights. The bloody is moral : the blood is anti- 
slavery : it runs cold in the veins : the stomach rises with dis- 
gust, and curses slavery. Well, so it happened ; a good man 
or woman, a country boy or girl, it would so fall out, once in 
a while saw these injuries, and had the indiscretion to tell of 
them. The horrid story ran and flew ; the winds blew it all 
over the world. They who heard it, asked their rich and 
great friends, if it was true, or only missionary lies. The 
richest and greatest, the prime minister of England, the king's 
privy-council were obliged to say, that it was too true. It be- 
came plain to all men, the more this business was looked into, 
that the crimes and cruelties of the slave-traders and slave- 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 7 

owners could not be overstated. The more it was searched, 
the more shocking anecdotes came up, — things not to be 
spoken. Humane persons who were informed of the reports, 
insisted on proving them. Granville Sharpe was accidentally 
made acquainted with the sufferings of a slave, whom a West 
India planter had brought with him to London, and had 
beaten with a pistol on his head so badly, that his whole body 
became diseased, and the man useless to his master, who left 
him to go whither he pleased. The man applied to Mr. Wm. 
Sharpe, a charitable surgeon, who attended the diseases of 
the poor. In process of time, he was healed. Granville 
Sharpe found him at his brother's, and procured a place for 
him in an apothecary's shop. The master accidentally met 
his recovered slave, and instantly endeavoured to get posses- 
sion of him again. Sharpe protected the slave. In consult- 
ing with the lawyers, they told Sharpe the laws were against 
him. Sharpe would not believe it. No prescription on earth 
could ever render such iniquities legal. " But the decisions 
are against you, and Lord Mansfield, now chief justice of 
England, leans to the decisions." Sharpe instantly sat down 
and gave himself to the study of English law for more than 
two years, until he proved that the opinions relied on of Talbot 
and Yorke, were incompatible with the former English deci- 
sions, and with the whole spirit of English law. He pub- 
lished his book in 1769, and he so filled the heads and hearts 
of his advocates, that when he brought the case of George 
Somerset, another slave, before Lord Mansfield, the slavish 
decisions were set aside, and equity affirmed. There is a 
sparkle of God's righteousness in Lord Mansfield's judgment, 
which does the heart good. Very unwilling had that great 
lawyer been to reverse the late decisions ; he suggested twice 
from the bench, in the course of the trial, how the question 
might be got rid of: but the hint was not taken ; the case 
was adjourned again and again, and judgmenl delayed. At 
last judgment was demanded, and, on the 22nd June, 1772, 



8 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

Lord Mansfield is reported to have decided in these 
words : — 

" Immemorial usage preserves the memory o^ positive law, 
long after all traces of the occasion, reason, authority, and time 
of its introduction, are lost ; and in a case so odious as the 
condition of slaves, must be taken strictly ; (tracing the sub- 
ject to natural principles, the claim of slavery never can be 
supported.) The power claimed by this return never was in 
use here. We cannot say the cause set forth by this return is 
allowed or approved of by the laws of this kingdom ; and 
therefore the man must be discharged." 

This decision established the principle that the " air of 
England is too pure for any slave to breathe," but the 
wrongs in the islands were not thereby touched. Public at- 
tention, however, was drawn that way, and the methods of 
the stealing and the transportation from Africa, became 
noised abroad. The Quakers got the story. In their plain 
meeting-houses, and prim dwellings, this dismal agitation 
got entrance. They were rich ; they owned for debt, or by 
inheritance, island property; they were religious, tender- 
hearted men and women ; and they had to hear the news, 
and digest it as they could. Six Quakers met in London on 
the 6th July, 1783 ; William Dillwyn, Samuel Hoar, George 
Harrison, Thomas Knowles, John Lloyd, Joseph Woods, " to 
consider what step they should take for the relief and libe- 
ration of the negro slaves in the West Indies, and for the 
discouragement of the slave-trade on the coast of Africa." 
They made friends and raised money for the slave; they 
interested their yearly meeting ; and all English and all 
American Quakers. John Woolman of New Jersey, whilst 
yet an apprentice, was uneasy in his mind when he was set 
to write a bill of sale of a negro, for his master. He gave 
his testimony against the traiTic, in Maryland and Virginia. 
Thomas Clarkson was a youth at Cambridge, England, when 
the subject given out for a Latin prize dissertation, was, " Is 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 



it right to make slaves of others against their will ? " He 
wrote an essay, and won the prize ; but he wrote too well 
for his own peace ; he began to agk himself, if these things 
could be true ; and if they were, he could no longer rest. 
He left Cambridge ; he fell in with the six Quakers. They 
engaged him to act for them. He himself interested Mr. 
Wilberforce in the matter. The shipmasters in that trade 
were the greatest miscreants, and guilty of every barbarity to 
their own crews. Clarkson went to Bristol, made himself 
acquainted with the interior of the slave-ships, and the details 
of the trade. The facts confirmed his sentiment, " that Provi- 
dence had never made that to be wise, which was immoral, 
and that the slave-trade was as impolitic as it was unjust ; " 
that it was found peculiarly fatal to those employed in it. 
More seamen died in that trade in one year, than in the whole 
remaining trade of the country in two. Mr. Pitt and Mr. 
Fox were drawn into the generous enterprise. In 1788, the 
House of Commons voted Parliamentary inquiry. In 1791, a 
bill to abolish the trade was brought in by Wilberforce, and 
supported by him, and by Fox, and Burke, and Pitt, with the 
utmost ability and faithfulness ; resisted by the planters, and 
the whole West Indian interest, and lost. During the next 
sixteen years, ten times, year after year, the attempt was 
renewed by Mr. Wilberforce, and ten times defeated by the 
planters. The king, and all the royal family but one, were 
against it. These debates are instructive, as they show on 
what grounds the trade was assailed and defended. Every 
thing generous, wise, and sprightly is sure to come to the 
attack. On the other part, are found cold prudence, bare-^ 
faced selfishness, and silent votes. But the nation was 
aroused to enthusiasm. Every horrid fact became known. 
In 1791, three hundred thousand persons in Britain pledged 
themselves to abstain from all articles of island produce. The 
planters were obliged to give way ; and in 1807, on the 25th 
March, the bill passed, and liie slave-trade was abolished. 



10 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

The assailants of slavery had early agreed to limit their 
political action on this subject to the abolition of the trade, 
but Granville Sharpe, as a matter of conscience, whilst he 
acted as chairman of the London Committee, felt constrained 
to record his protest against the limitation, declaring that sla- 
very was as much a crime against the Divine law, as the slave- 
trade. The trade, under false flags, went on as before. In 
1821, according to official documents presented to the Ame- 
rican government by the Colonization Society, 200,000 slaves 
were deported from Africa. Nearly 50,000 were landed in 
the port of Havana alone. In consequence of the dangers of 
the trade growing out of the act of abolition, ships were built 
sharp for swiftness, and with a frightful disregard of the com- 
fort of the victims they were destined to transport. They 
carried five, six, even seven hundred stowed in a ship built so 
narrow as to be unsafe, being made just broad enough on the 
beam to keep the sea. In attempting to make its escape from 
the pursuit of a man-of-war, one ship flung five hundred slaves 
alive into the sea. These facts went into Parliament. In the 
islands, was an ominous state of cruel and licentious society ; 
every house had a dungeon attached to it ; every slave was 
worked by the whip. There is no end to the tragic anecdotes 
in the municipal records of the colonies. The boy was set 
to strip and to flog his own mother to blood, for a small 
offence. Looking in the face of his master by the negro was 
held to be violence by the island courts. He was worked 
sixteen hours, and his ration by law, in some islands, was a 
pint of flour and one salt herring a day. He suffered insult, 
stripes, mutilation, at the humour of the master : iron collars 
were riveted on their necks with iron prongs ten inches long ; 
capsicum pepper was rubbed in the eyes of the females ; and 
they were done to death with the 
the master and manager, without 
at last, some Quakers, Moravians, and Wesleyan and Baptist 
missionaries, following in the steps of Carey and Ward in the 



most shocking levity between 
fine or inquiry. And when, 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. H 

East Indies, had been moved to come and cheer the poor 
victim with the hope of some reparation, in a future world, of 
the wrongs he suffered in this, these missionaries were perse- 
cuted by the planters, their lives threatened, their chapels 
burned, and the negroes furiously forbidden to go near them. 
These outrages rekindled the flame of British indignation. 
Petitions poured into Parliament : a million persons signed 
their names to these; and in 1853, on the 14lh May, Lord 
Stanley, minister of the colonies, introduced into the House of 
Commons his bill for the Emancipation. 

The scheme of the minister, with such modification as it 
received in the legislature, proposed gradual emancipation ; 
that on 4 St August, 1834, all persons now slaves should be 
entitled to be registered as apprenticed labourers, and to 
acquire thereby all the rights and privileges of freemen, 
subject to the restriction of labouring under certain conditions. 
These conditions were, that the praidials should owe three- 
fourths of the profits of their labour to their masters for six 
years, and the nonprsedials for four years. The other fourth of 
the apprentice's time was to be his own, which he might sell 
to his master, or to other persons ; and at the end of the term 
of years fixed, he should be free. 

With these provisions and conditions, the bill proceeds, in 
the twelfth section in the following terms. " Be it enacted, 
that all and every person who, on Jst August, 1834, shall be 
holden in slavery within any such British colony as aforesaid, 
shall upon, and from and after the said first of August, 
become and be to all intents and purposes free, and dis- 
charged of and from all manner of slavery, and shall be 
absolutely and for ever manumitted ; and that the children 
thereafter born to any such persons, and the offspring of such 
children, shall, in like manner, be free from their birth ; and 
that, from and after the 1st August, 1834, slavery shall be and 
is hereby utterly and for ever abolished and declared unlawful 



42 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

throughout the British colonies, plantations, and possessions 
abroad." 

The ministers, having estimated the slave products of the 
colonies in annual exports of sugar, rum, and coffee, at 
361,500,000 per annum, estimated the total value of the 
slave property at 5650,000,000 sterling, and proposed 
to give the planters, as a compensation for so much of the 
slaves' time as the act took from them, 3620,000,000 
sterling, to be divided into nineteen shares for the nineteen 
colonies, and to be distributed to the owners of slaves by 
commissioners, whose appointment and duties were regulated 
by the Act. After much debate, the bill passed by large 
majorities. The apprenticeship system is understood to have 
proceeded from Lord Brougham, and was by him urged on 
his colleagues, who, it is said, were inclined to the policy of 
immediate emancipation. 

The colonial legislatures received the act of Parliament with 
various degrees of displeasure, and, of course, every provision 
of the bill was criticised with severity. The new relation 
between the master and the apprentice, it was feared, would 
be mischievous ; for the bill required the appointment of 
magistrates who should hear every complaint of the apprentice, 
and see that justice was done him. It was feared that the 
interest of the master and servant would now produce perpe- 
tual discord between them. In the island of Antigua, con- 
taining 57,000 people, 50,000 being negroes, these objections 
had such weight, that the legislature rejected the apprentice- 
ship system, and adopted absolute emancipation. In the other 
islands the system of the ministry was accepted. 

The reception of it by the negro population was equal in 
nobleness to the deed. The negroes were called together by 
the missionaries and by the planters, and the news explained 
to them. On the night of the 5 1st July they met everywhere 
at their churches and chapels, and at midnight, when the 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 15 

clock Struck twelve, on their knees, the silent, weeping assem- 
bly became men ; they rose and embraced each other ; they 
cried, they sung, they prayed, they were wild with joy, but 
there was no riot, no feasting. 1 have never read anything in 
history more touching than the moderation of the negroes. 
Some American captains left the shore and put to sea, antici- 
pating insurrection and general murder. But with far dif- 
ferent thoughts, the negroes spent the hour in their huts and 
chapels. I will not repeat to you the well-known paragraph, 
in which Messrs. Thome and Kimball, the commissioners scut 
out in the year 1837, by the American Anti-Slavery Society, 
describe the occurrences of that night in the island of Antigua. 
It has been quoted in every newspaper, and Dr. Channing has 
given it additional fame. But I must be indulged in quoting 
a few sentences from the pages that follow it, narrating the 
behaviour of the emancipated people on the next day. 

* " The first of August came on Friday, and a release was 
proclaimed from all work until the next Monday. The day 
was chiefly spent by the great mass of the negroes in the 
churches and chapels. The clergy and missionaries through- 
out the island were actively engaged, seizing the opportunity 
to enlighten the people on all the duties and responsibilities of 
their new relation, and urging them to the attainment of that 
higher liberty with which Christ maketh his children free. 
In every quarter, we were assured, the day was like a Sab- 
bath. Work had ceased. The hum of business was still : 
tranquillity pervaded the towns and country. The planters 
informed us, that they went to the chapels where their own 
people were assembled, greeted them, shook hands with them, 
and exchanged the most hearty good wishes. At Grace Hill, 
there were at least a thousand persons around the Moravian 
Chapel who could not get in. For once the house of God 

* " Emancipation in the West Indies : a Six Months Tour in Antigua, 
Barbadoes, and Jamaica, in the year 1837. By J. A. Thome and J. II. Kim- 
ball. New York, 1833."— pp. 146, 147. 

B 



i4 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

suffered violence, aud the violent took it by force. At Grace 
Bay the people, all dressed in white, formed a procession, 
and walked arm in arm into the chapel. We were told 
that the dress of the negroes on that occasion was un- 
commonly simple and modest. There was not the least dis- 
position to gaiety. Throughout the island, there was not a 
single dance known of, either day or night, nor so much as a 
fiddle played." 

On the next Monday morning, with very few exceptions, 
every negro on every plantation was in the field at his work. 
In some places, they waited to see their master, to know what 
bargain he would make ; but, for the most part, through- 
out the islands, nothing painful occurred. In June, 4835, 
the ministers. Lord Aberdeen and Sir George Grey, declared 
to the Parliament, that the system worked well ; that now for 
ten months, from 1st of August, 4854, no injury or violence 
had been offered to any white, and only one black had been 
hurt in 800,000 negroes : and, contrary to many sinister pre- 
dictions, that the new crop of island produce would not fall 
short of that of the last year. 

But the habit of oppression was not destroyed by a law 
and a day of jubilee. It soon appeared in all the islands, 
that the planters were disposed to use their old privileges, and 
overwork the apprentices ; to take from them, under various 
pretences, their fourth part of their time ; and to exert the 
same licentious despotism as before. The negroes complained 
to the magistrates, and to the governor. In the island of 
Jamaica, this ill blood continually grew worse. The governors. 
Lord Belmore, the Earl of Sligo, and afterwards Sir Lionel 
Smith, (a governor of their own class, who had been sent out 
to gratify the planters,) threw themselves on the side of the 
oppressed, and are at constant quarrel with the angry and 
bilious island legislature. Nothing can^exceed the ill-humour 
and sulkiness of the addresses of this assembly. 

I may here express a general remark, which the history of 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. lo 

slavery seems to justify, that it is not founded solely on the 
avarice of the planter. We sometimes say, the planter does 
not want slaves, he only wants the immunities and the luxuries 
which the slaves yield him ; give him money, give him a ma- 
chine that will yield him as much money as the slaves, and he 
will thankfully let them go. He has no love of slavery, he 
wants luxury, and he will pay even this price of crime and 
danger for it. But I think experience does not warrant this 
favourable distinction, but shows the existence, besides the 
covetousness, of a bitterer element, the love of power, the 
voluptuousness of holding a human being in his absolute con- 
trol. We sometimes observe, that spoiled children contract a 
habit of annoying quite wantonly those who have charge of 
them, and seem to measure their own sense of well-being, not 
by what they do, but by the degree of reaction they can cause. 
It is vain to get rid of them by not mhiding them : if purring 
and humming is not noticed, they squeal and screech ; then if 
you chide and console them, they find the experiment suc- 
ceeds, and they begin again. The child will sit in your arms 
contented, provided you do nothing. If you take a book and 
read, he commences hostile operations. The planter is the 
spoiled child of his unnatural habits, and has contracted in his 
indolent and luxurious climate the need of excitement by irri- 
tating and tormenting his slave. 

Sir Lionel Smith defended the poor negro girls — the prey 
of the planter's licentiousness ; they shall not be whipped with 
tamarind rods, if they do not comply with their master's will : 
he defended the negro women ; they should not be made to dig 
the cane-holes, (which is the very hardest of the field-work ;) 
he defended the Baptist preachers and the stipendiary magis- 
trates, who are the negroes' friends, from the power of the 
planter. The power of the planters, however, to oppress, was 
greater than the power of the apprentice and of his guardians 
to withstand. Lord Brougham and Mr. Buxton declared that 
the planter had not fulfilled his part in the contract, whilst 



46 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

the apprentices liad fulfilled theirs ; and demanded that the 
emancipation should be hastened, and the apprenticeship 
abolished. Parliament was compelled to pass additional laws 
for the defence and security of the negro, and in ill-humour 
at these acts, the great island of Jamaica, with a population of 
half a million, and 500,000 negroes, early in 1838, resolve to 
throw up the two remaining years of apprenticeship, and to 
emancipate absolutely on the 1st August, 1838, In British 
Guiana, in Dominica, the same resolution had been earlier 
taken with more good-will ; and the other islands fell into the 
measure; so that on the 1st August, 4838, the shackles 
dropped from every British slave. The accounts which we 
have from all parties, both from the planters, and those too, 
who were originally most opposed to the measure, and from 
the new freemen, are of the most satisfactory kind. The 
manner in which the new festival was celebrated, brings 
tears to the eyes. The 1st of August, 1838, was observed 
in Jamaica as a day of thanksgiving and prayer. Sir Lionel 
Smith, the governor, writes to the British Ministry, " It is 
impossible for me to do justice to the good order, decorum, 
and gratitude, which the whole labouring population mani- 
fested on that happy occasion. Though joy beamed on every 
countenance, it was throughout tempered with solemn thank- 
fulness to God, and the churches and chapels were every- 
where filled with these happy people in humble offering of 
praise." 

The Queen, in her speech to the Lords ajid Commons, 
praised the conduct of the emancipated population : and, in 
4 840, Sir Charles Metcalfe, the new governor of Jamaica, in 
his address to the Assembly, expressed himself to that late 
exasperated body in these terms : — " All those who are ac- 
quainted with the state of the island, know that our emanci- 
pated population are as free, as independent in their conduct, 
as well-conditioned, as much in the enjoyment of abundance, 
and as strongly sensible of the blessings of liberty, as any 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 



47 



ihet we know of in any country. All disqualifications and 
distinctions of colour have ceased ; men of all colours have 
equal rights in law, and an equal footing in society, and every 
man's position is settled by the same circumstances which re- 
gulate that point in other free countries, where no difference 
of colour exists. It may be asserted, without fear of denial, 
that the former slaves of Jamaica are now as secure, in all 
social rights, as freeborn Britons." He further describes the 
erection of numerous churches, chapels, and schools, which 
the new population required, and adds that more are still de- 
manded. The Legislature, in their reply, echo the governor's 
statement, and say, " The peaceful demeanour of the emanci- 
pated population redounds to their own credit, and affords a 
proof of their continued comfort and prosperity." 

I said, this event is signal in the history of civilization. 
There are many styles of civilization, and not one only. Ours 
is full of barbarities. There are many faculties in man, each 
of which takes its turn of activity, and that faculty which is 
paramount in any period, and exerts itself through the strongest 
nation, determines the civility of that age ; and each age 
thinks its own the perfection of reason. Our culture is very 
cheap and intelligible. Unroof any house, and you shall find 
it. The well-being consists in having a sufficiency of coffee 
and toast, with a daily newspaper ; a well-glazed parlour, with 
marbles, mirrors and centre-table ; and the excitement of a 
few parties and a few rides in a year. Such as one house 
is, such are all. The owner of a New York manor imitates 
the mansion and equipage of the London nobleman ; the 
Boston merchant rivals his brother of New York ; and the 
villages copy Boston. There have been natioi.^ elevated Ijy 
great sentiments. Such was the civilization of Sparta and the 
Dorian race, whilst it was defective in some of the chief 
elements of ours. That of Athens, again, lay in an intellect 
dedicated to beauty. That of Asia Minor in poetry, music, 
and arts ; that of Palestine in piety ; tliat of Rome in military 

B 3 



18 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

arts and virtues, exalted by a prodigious magnanimity ; that of 
China and Japan in the last exaggeration of decorum and 
etiquette. Our civilization, England determines the style of, 
inasmuch as England is the strongest of the family of existing 
nations, and as we are the expansion of that people. It is 
that of a trading nation ; it is a shopkeeping civilization. The 
English lord is a retired shopkeeper, and has the prejudices 
and timidities of that profession. And v^e are shopkeepers, 
and have acquired the vices and virtues that belong to trade. 
We peddle, we truck, we sail, we row, we ride in cars, we 
creep in teams, we go in canals — to market, and for the sale 
of goods. The national aim and employment streams into our 
ways of thinking, our laws, our habits, and our manners. 
Tlie customer is the immediate jewel of our souls. Him we 
flatter, him we feast, compliment, vote for, and will not con- 
tradict. It was or it seemed the dictate of trade, to keep the 
negro down. We had found a race who were less warlike, 
and less energetic shopkeepers than we ; who had very little 
skill in trade. We found it very convenient to keep them at 
work, since, by the aid of a little whipping, we could get their 
w^ork for nothing but their board and the cost of whips- 
Wlial if it cost a few unpleasant scenes on the coast of Africa ? 
That was a great way off; and the scenes could be endured 
by some sturdy, unscrupulous fellows, who could go for high 
wages, and bring us the men, and need not trouble our ears 
with the disagreeable particulars. If any mention was made 
of homicide, madness, adultery, and intolerable tortures, we 
would let the church-bells ring louder, the cliurch-organ 
swell its peal, and drown the hideous sound. The sugar they 
raised was excellent ; nobody tasted blood in it. The coffee 
was fragrant ; the tobacco was incense ; the brandy made 
nations happy ; the cotton clothed the world. What ! all 
raised by these men, and no wages ? Excellent ! what a 
convenience ! They seemed created by Providence to bear 
the heat and the whipping, and make these fine articles. 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 



19 



But unhappily, most unhappily, gentlemen, man is born 
with intellect, as well as with a love of sugar, and with a 
sense of justice, as well as a taste for strong drink. These 
ripened, as well as those. You could not educate him, you 
could not get any poetry, any wisdom, any beauty in woman, 
any strong and commanding character in man, but these 
absurdities would still come flashing out — these absurdities 
of a demand for justice, a generosity for the weak and 
oppressed. Unhappily, too, for the planter, the laws of 
nature are in harmony with each other : that which the head 
and the heart demand, is found to be, in the long run, for 
what the grossest calculator calls his advantage. The moral 
sense is always supported by the permanent interest of the 
parties. Else, I know not how, in our world, any good would 
ever get done. It was shown to the planters that they, as well 
as the negroes, were slaves ; that, though they paid no wages, 
they got very poor work ; that their estates were ruining them, 
under the finest climate ; and that they needed the severest 
monopoly laws at home to keep them from bankruptcy. The 
oppression of the slave recoiled on them. They were full of 
vices ; their children were lumps of pride, sloth, sensuality, 
and rottenness. The position of woman was nearly as bad as 
it could be, t>nd, like other robbers, they could not sleep in 
security. Many planters have said, since the emancipation, 
that, before that day, they were the greatest slaves on their 
estates. Slavery is no scholar, no improver ; it does not love 
the whistle of the railroad ; it does not love the newspaper, 
the mail-bag, a college, a book, or a preacher, who has the 
absurd whim of saying what he thinks ; it does not increase 
the white population ; it does not improve the soil ; everything 
goes to decay. For these reasons, the islands proved bad cus- 
tomers to England. It was very easy for manufacturers less 
shrewd than those of Birmingham and Manchester to see, that 
if the slaves had wages, the slaves would be clothed, would 
build houses, would fill them with tools, with pottery, with 



20 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

crockery, with hardware ; and negro women love fine clothes 
as well as w^hite women. In every naked negro of those 
thousands, they saw a future customer. Meantime, they saw 
further, that the slave-trade, by keeping in barbarism the whole 
coast of eastern Africa, deprives them of countries and nations 
of customers, if once freedom and civility, and European man- 
ners could get a foothold there. But the trade could not be 
abolished, whilsl this hungry West Indian market, with an 
appetite like the grave, cried, " More, more ; bring me a hun- 
dred a day ; " they could not expect any mitigation in the 
madness of the poor African war-chiefs. These considerations 
opened the eyes of the dullest in Britain. More than this, the 
West Indian estate was owned or mortgaged in England, and 
the owner and the mortgagee had very plain intimations that 
the feeling of English liberty was gaining every hour new mass 
and velocity, and the hostility to such as resisted it, would be 
fatal. The House of Commons would destroy the protection 
of island produce, and interfere on English politics in the island 
legislation ; so they hastened to make the best of their position, 
and accepted the bill. 

These considerations, I doubt not, had their weight, the 
interest of trade, the interest of the revenue, and, moreover, 
the good fame of the action. It was inevitable that men 
should feel these motives. But they do not appear to have 
had an excessive or unreasonable weight. On reviewing this 
history, I think the whole transaction reflects infinite honour 
on the people and Parliament of England. It was a stately 
spectacle, to see the cause of human rights argued with so 
much patience and generosity, and with such a mass of evi- 
dence before that powerful people. It is a creditable incident 
in the history, that when, in 4789, the first privy-council 
report of evidence on the trade, a bulky folio, (embodying all 
the facts which the London Committee had been engaged for 
years in collecting, and all the examinations before the council,) 
was presented to the House of Commons, a late day being 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 21 

named for the discussion, in order to give members time, — 
Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Pitt, the prime minister, and other gen- 
tlemen, took advantage of the postponement, to retire into the 
country, to read the report. For months and years the bill 
was debated, with some consciousness of the extent of its rela- 
tions by the first citizens of England, the foremost men of the 
earth ; every argument was weighed, every particle of evidence 
sifted, and laid in the scale ; and, at last, the right triumphed, 
the poor man was vindicated, and the oppressor was flung out. 
I know that England has the advantage of trying the question 
at a wide distance from the spot where the nuisance exists ; 
the planters are not, excepting in rare examples, members of the 
legislature. The extent of the empire, and ihe magnitude and 
number of other questions crowding into court, keep this one 
in balance, and prevent it from obtaining that ascendency, and 
being urged with that intemperance, which a question of pro- 
perly tends to acquire. There are causes in the composition 
of the British legislature, and the relation of its leaders to the 
country and to Europe, which exclude much that is pitiful and 
injurious in other legislative assemblies. From these reasons, 
the question was discussed with a rare independence and 
magnanimity. It was not narrowed down to a paltry elec- 
tioneering trap, and, I must say, a delight in justice, an honest 
tenderness for the poor negro, for man suffering these wrongs, 
combined with the national pride, which refused to give the 
support of English soil, or the protection of the English flag, 
to these disgusting violations of nature. 

Forgive me, fellow-citizens, if I own to you, that in the last 
few days that my attention has been occupied with this his- 
tory, I have not been able to read a page of it, without the 
most painful comparisons. Whilst I have read of England, I 
have thought of New England. Whilst I have meditated in 
my solitary walks on the magnanimity of the English Bench 
and Senate, reaching out the benefit of the law to the most 
helpless citizen in her world-wide realm, I have found myself 



22 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

oppressed by other thoughts. A.s I have walked in the pas- 
tures and along the edge of woods, I could not keep my ima- 
gination on those agreeable figures, for other images that in- 
truded on me. I could not see the great vision of the pa- 
triots and senators who have adopted the slave's cause : — they 
turned their backs on me. No : I see other pictures — of 
mean men : 1 see very poor, very ill-clothed, very ignorant 
men, not surrounded by happy friends, — to be plain, — poor 
black men of obscure employment as mariners, cooks, or 
stewards, in ships, yet citizens of this our Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, — freeborn as we, — whom the slave-laws of the 
States of South Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana, have ar- 
rested in the vessels in which they visited those ports, and 
shut up in jails so long as the vessel remained in port, with 
the stringent addition, that if the shipmaster fails to pay the 
costs of this official arrest, and the board in jail, these citizens 
are to be sold for slaves, to pay that expense. This man, 
these men, I see, and no law to save them. Fellow-citizens, 
this crime will not be hushed up any longer. I have learned 
that a citizen of Nantucket, walking in New Orleans, found a 
freeborn citizen of Nantucket — a man, too, of great personal 
worth, and, as it happened, very dear to him, as having saved 
his own life, working chained in the streets of that city, kid- 
napped by such a process as this. In the sleep of the laws, 
the private interference of two excellent citizens of Boston has, 
I have ascertained, rescued several natives of this State from 
these southern prisons. Gentlemen, I thought the deck of a 
Massachusetts ship was as much the territory of Massachusetts, 
as the floor on which we stand. It should be as sacred as the 
temple of God. The poorest fishing-smack, that floats under 
the shadow of an iceberg in the northern seas, or hunts the 
whale in the southern ocean, should be encompassed by her 
laws with comfort and protection, as much as within the arms 
of Cape Ann and Cape Cod. And this kidnapping is suffered 
within our own land and federalion, whilst the fourth article 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 25 

of the Constitution of the United States ordains in terms, that 
" The citizens of each Stale shall be entitled to all privileges 
and immunities of citizens in the several Stales." If such a 
damnable outrage can be committed on the person of a citizen 
with impunity, let the Governor break the broad seal of the 
State ; he wears the sword in vain. The Governor of Massa- 
chusetts is a trifler : the State-house in Boston is a play-house : 
the General Court is a dishonoured body : if they make laws 
which they cannot execute. The great-hearted Puritans have 
left no posterity. The rich men may walk in State-street, but 
they walk without honour ; and the farmers may brag their 
democracy in the country, but they are disgraced men. If 
the State has no power to defend its own people in its own 
shipping, because it has delegated that power to the Federal 
Government, has it no representation in the Federal Govern- 
ment ? Are those men dumb ? I am no lawyer, and cannot 
indicate the forms applicable to the case, but here is some- 
thing which transcends all forms. Let the senators and re- 
presentatives of the Slate, containing a population of a million 
freemen, go in a body before the Congress, and say, that they 
have a demand to make on them so imperative, that all func- 
tions of government must slop, until it is satisfied. If ordi- 
nary legislation cannot reach it, then extraordinary must be 
applied. The Congress should instruct the President to send 
to those ports of Charlestown, Savannah, and New Orleans, 
such orders and such force, as shall release, forthwith, all 
such citizens of Massachusetts as were holden in prison with- 
out the allegation of any crime, and should set on foot the 
strictest inquisition to discover where such persons, brought 
into slavery by these local laws, at any time heretofore, may 
now be. That first ; — and then, let order be taken to indem- 
nify all such as have been incarcerated. As for dangers to 
the Union, from such demands ! — the Union is already at an 
end, when the first citizen of Massachusells is thus outraged. 
Is it an union and covenant in which the Slate of Massa- 



24 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

chusetts agrees to be imprisoned, and the State of Carolina to 
imprison ? Gentlemen, 1 am loath to say harsh things, and 
perhaps I know too little of politics for the smallest weight to 
attach to any censure of mine, — but I am at a loss how to 
characterise the tameness and silence of the two senators and 
the ten representatives of the State at Washington. To what 
purpose have we clothed each of those representatives with 
the power of seventy thousand persons, and each senator with 
nearly half a million, if they are to sit dumb at their desks, 
and see their constituents captured and sold ; — perhaps to 
gentlemen sitting by them in the hall. There is a scandalous 
rumour that has been swelling louder of late years, — perhaps 
it is wholly false, — that members are bullied into silence by 
southern gentlemen. It is so easy to omit to speak, or even 
to be absent when delicate things are to be handled. I may 
as well say what all men feel, that whilst our very amiable 
and very innocent representatives and senators at Washington, 
are accomplished lawyers and merchants, and very eloquent at 
dinners and i^t caucuses, there is a disastrous want of men 
from New England. I would gladly make exceptions, and 
you will not suffer me to forget one eloquent old man, in 
whose veins the blood of Massachusetts rolls, and who singly 
has defended the freedom of speech, and the rights of the 
free, against the usurpation of the slave-holder. But the 
reader of Congressional debates in New England, is perplexed 
to see with what admirable sweetness and patience the ma- 
jority of the free states are schooled and ridden by the mi- 
nority of slave-holders. What if we should send thither 
representatives who were a particle less amiable and less inno- 
cent ? I entreat you, sirs, let not this stain attach, let not 
this misery accumulate any longer. If the managers of our 
political parties are too prudent and too cold ; — if, most un- 
happily, the ambitious class of young men and political men 
have found out, that these neglected victims are poor and 
without weight ; that they have no graceful hospitalities to 



IN THE BRITISH ^VEST INDIES. 25 

offer ; no valuable business to throw into any man's hands, no 
strong vote to cast at the elections ; and therefore may with 
impunity be left in their chains, or to the chance of chains, 
then let the citizens in their primary capacity take up iheir 
cause on this very ground, and say to the government of the 
State, and of the Union, that government exists to defend the 
weak and the poor and the injured party ; the rich and the 
strong can belter take care of themselves. And as an omen 
and assurance of success, I point you to the bright example 
which England set you, on this day, ten years ago. 

There are other comparisons and other imperative duties 
which come sadly to mind, — but I do not wish to darken the 
hours of this day by crimination ; I turn gladly to the rightful 
theme, to the bright aspects of the occasion. 

This event was a moral revolution. The history of it is 
before you. Here was no prodigy, no fabulous hero, no Tro- 
jan horse, no bloody war, but all was achieved by plain means 
of plain men, working not under a leader, but under a senti- 
ment. Other revolutions have been the insurrection of the 
oppressed ; this was the repentance of the tyrant. It was the 
masters revolting from their mastery. The slave-holder said, 
I will not hold slaves. The end was noble, and the means 
were pure. Hence, the elevation and pathos of this chapter 
of history. The lives of the advocates are pages of greatness, 
and the connection of the eminent senators with this question, 
constitutes the immortalizing moments of those men's lives. 
The bare enunciation of the thesis, at which the lawyers and 
legislators arrived, gives a glow to the heart of the reader. 
Lord Chancellor Norlhington is the author of the famous sen- 
tence, " As soon as any man puts his foot on English ground, 
he becomes free." " I was a slave," said the counsel of So- 
merset, speaking for his client, " for I was in America : I am 
now in a country, where the common rights of mankind are 
known and regarded." Granville Sharpe filled the ear of the 
judges with the sound principles, that had from time to time 

c 



26 



ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 



been affirmed by the legal authorities. " Derived power can- 
not be superior to the power from which it is derived." " The 
reasonableness of the law is the soul of the law." " It is 
better to suffer every evil, than to consent to any." Out it 
would come, the God's truth, out it came, like a bolt from a 
cloud, for all the mumbling of the lawyers. One feels very 
sensibly in all this history that a great heart and soul are be- 
hind there, superior to any man, and making use of each 
in turn, and infinitely attractive to every person according to 
the degree of reason in his own mind, so that this cause has 
had the power to draw to it every particle of talent and of 
worth in England, from the beginning. All the great geniuses 
of the British senate — Fox, Pitt, Burke, Grenville, Sheridan, 
Grey, Canning, ranged themselves on its side ; the poet Cow- 
per wrote for it : Franklin, Jefferson, Washington, in this 
country, all recorded their votes. All men remember the 
subtlety and the fire of indignation, which the Edinburgh 
Review contributed to the cause ; and every liberal mind, 
poet, preacher, moralist, statesman, has had the fortune to 
appear somewhere for this cause. On the other part, ap- 
peared the reign of pounds and shillings, and all manner of 
rage and stupidity ; a resistance which drew from Mr. Hud- 
dlestone in Parliament the observation, " That a curse at- 
tended this trade even in the mode of defending it." By a 
certain fatality, none but the vilest arguments were brought 
forward, which corrupted the very persons who used them. 
Every one of these was built on the narrow ground of in- 
terest, of pecuniary profit, of sordid gain, in opposition to 
every motive that had reference to humanity, justice, and re- 
ligion, or to that great principle which comprehended them 
all." — This moral force perpetually reinforces and dignifies 
the friends of the cause. It gave that tenacity to their point 
which has ensured ultimate triumph ; and it gave that supe- 
riority in reason, in imagery, in eloquence, which makes in 
all countries anti-slavery meetings so attractive to the people, 



I> THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 27 

and has made it a proverb in Massachusetts, that " eloquence 
is dog-cheap at the anti-slavery chapel !" 

I will say further, that we are indebted mainly to this 
movement, and to the continuers of it for the popular discus- 
sion of every point of practical ethics, and a reference of 
every question to the absolute standard. It is notorious, that 
the political, religious, and social schemes, with which the 
minds of men are now most occupied, have been matured, or 
at least broached, in the free and daring discussions of these 
assemblies. Men have become aware through the emancipa- 
tion, and kindred events, of the presence of powers, which, 
in their days of darkness, they had overlooked. Virtuous 
men will not again rely on political agents. They have found 
out the deleterious effect of political association. Up to this 
day, we have allowed to statesmen a paramount social stand- 
ing, and we bow low to them as to the great. We cannot 
extend this deference to them any longer. The secret cannot 
be kept, that the seats of power are filled by underlings, 
ignorant, timid, and selfish, to destroy all claim, excepting 
that on compassion, to the society of the just and generous. 
What happened notoriously to an American ambassador in 
England, that he found himself compelled to palter, and to 
disguise the fact that he was a slave-breeder, happens to men 
of state. Their vocation is a presumption against them, 
among well-meaning people. The superstition respecting 
power and office, is going to the ground. The stream of 
human affairs flows its own way, and is very little affected by 
the activity of legislators. What great masses of men wish 
done, will be done ; and they do not wish it for a freak, but 
because it is their state and natural end. There are now 
other energies than force, other than political, which no man 
in future can allow himself to disregard. There is direct 
conversation and influence. A man is to make himself felt, 
by his proper force. The tendency of things runs steadily to 
this point, namely, to put every man on his merits, and to 



28 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION 

give him so much power as he naturally exerts — no more, no 
less. Of course, the timid and base persons, all who are 
conscious of no worth in themselves, and who owe all their 
place to the opportunities which the old order of things 
allowed them to deceive and defraud men, shudder at the 
change, and would fain silence every honest voice, and lock 
up every house where liberty and innovation can be pleaded 
for. They would raise mobs, for fear is very cruel. But the 
strong and healthy yeomen and husbands of the land, the self- 
sustaining class of inventive and industrious men, fear no com- 
petition or superiority. Come what will, their faculty cannot 
be spared. 

The First of August marks the entrance of a new element 
into modern politics, namely, the civilization of the negro. A 
man is added to the human family. Not the least affecting 
part of this history of abolition, is, the annihilation of the old 
indecent nonsense about the nature of the negro. In the 
case of the ship "Zong," in 1781, whose master had thrown 
one hundred and thirty-two slaves alive into the sea, to cheat 
the underwriters, the first jury gave a verdict in favour of the 
master and owners : they had a right to do what they had 
done. Lord Mansfield is reported to have said on the bench, 
" The matter left to the jury is, — Was it from necessity ? For 
they had no doubt, — though it shocks one very much, — that 
the case of slaves was the same as if horses had been thrown 
overboard. It is a very shocking case." But a more en- 
lightened and humane opinion began to prevail. Mr. Clark- 
son, early in his career, made a collection of African produc- 
tions and manufactures, as specimens of the arts and culture 
of the negro ; comprising cloths and loom, weapons, polished 
stones and woods, leather, glass, dyes, ornaments, soap, pipe- 
bowls, and trinkets. These he showed to Mr. Pitt, who saw 
and handled them with extreme interest. " On sight of 
these," says Clarkson, " many sublime thoughts seemed to 
rush at once into his mind, some of which he expressed ;" 



IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES. 29 

and hence appeared to arise a project which was always dear 
to him, of the civilization of Africa, — a dream which for ever 
elevates his fame. In 1791, Mr. Wilberforce announced to 
the House of Commons, — " We have aheady gained one vic- 
tory : w^e have obtained for these poor creatures the recogni- 
tion of their human nature, which, for a time, was most 
shamefully denied them." It was the sarcasm of Montes- 
quieu, " it would not do to suppose that negroes were men, 
lest it should turn out that whites were not ;" for, the white 
has, for ages, done what he could to keep the negro in that 
hoggish state. His laws have been furies. It now appears, 
that the negro race is, more than any other, susceptible of 
rapid civilization. The emancipation is observed, in the 
islands, to have wrought for the negro a benefit as sudden as 
when a thermometer is brought out of the shade into the sun. 
It has given him eyes and ears. If, before, he was taxed with 
such stupidity, or such defective vision, that he could not set 
a table square to the walls of an apartment, he is now the 
principal, if not the only mechanic, in the West Indies ; and 
is, besides, an architect, a physician, a lawyer, a magistrate, 
an editor, and a valued and increasing political power. The 
recent testimonies of Slurge, of Thome and Kimball, of Gur- 
ney, of Philippo, are very explicit on this point, the capacity 
and the success of the coloured and the black population in 
employments of skill, of profit, and of trust ; and, best of all, 
is the testimony to their moderation. They receive hints 
and advances from the whites, that they will be gladly re- 
ceived as subscribers to the Exchange, as members of this or 
that committee of trust. They hold back, and say to each 
other, that " social position is not to be gained by pushing." 

I have said that this event interests us because it came 
mainly from the concession of the whiles ; I add, that in part 
it is the earning of the blacks. They won the pity and respect 
which they have received, by their powers and native endow- 
ments. I think this a circumstance of the highest import. 



50 ON Mi:GUO EMANClPAT10x\ 

Tlieir whole fulore is in it. Oor planet, before the age of 
written history, had its races of savages, like the generations of 
sour paste, or the animalcules that wriggle and bite in a drop 
of putrid water. Who cares for these or for their wars ? We 
do not wish a world of bugs or of birds ! neither afterwards 
of Scythians, Caribs, or Feejees. The grand style of nature, 
her great periods, is all we observe in them. Who cares for 
oppressing whites, or oppressed blacks, twenty centuries ago, 
more than for bad dreams? Eaters and food are in the har- 
mony of nature ; and there too is the germ for ever protected, 
unfolding gigantic leaf after leaf, a newer flower, a richer fruit, 
in every period, yet its next product is never to be guessed. 
It will only save what is worth saving ; and it saves not by 
compassion, but by power. It appoints no police to guard the 
lion, but his teeth and clav^s ; no fort or city for the bird, but 
his wings ; no rescue for ilies and mites, but tlieir spawning 
numbers, which no ravages can overcome. It deals with men 
after the same manner. If they are rude and foolish, down 
they must go. When at last in a race, a new principle 
appears, an idea, — that conserves it ; ideas only save races. 
If the black man is feeble, and not important to the existing 
races, not on a parity with the best race, the black man must 
serve, and be exterminated. But if the black man carries in 
his bosom an indispensable element of a new and coming 
civilization, for the sake of that element, no wrong, nor 
strength nor circumstance, can hurt him : he will survive and 
play his part. So now, the arrival in the world of such men 
as Toussaint, and the Haytian heroes, or of the leaders of their 
race in Barbadoes and Jamaica, outweighs in good omen all 
the English and American humanity. The anti-slavery of the 
whole world, is dust in the balance before this, — is a poor 
squeamishness and nervousness : the might and the right are 
here : here is the anti-slave : here is man : and if you have 
man, black or while is an insignificance. The intellect — that 
is miraculous ! Who has it, has the talisman i his skin and 



1> THE HiUTISH WEST INDIES. 5t 

bones, though ihey were of ihe color of night, are transparent, 
and the everlasting stars shine through, with attractive beams. 
But a compassion for that which is not, and cannot be useful 
or lovely, is degrading and futile. All the songs, and news- 
papers, and money-subscriptions, and vituperation of such as 
do not think with us, will avail nothing against a fact. I say 
to you, yon must save yourself, black or white, man or woman ; 
other help is none. I esteem the occasion of this jubilee to 
be the proud discovery, that the black race can contend with 
the white ; that, in the great anthem which we call history, a 
piece of many parts and vast compass, after playing a long 
time a very low and subdued accompaniment, they perceive 
the time arrived when they can strike in with effect, and take 
a master's part in the music. The civilization of the world has 
reached that pitch, that their moral genius is becoming indis- 
pensable, and the quality of the race is to be honoured for 
itself. For this, they have been preserved in sandy deserts, 
in rice- swamps, in kitchens and shoe-shops, so long: now let 
them emerge, clothed and in their own form. 

There remains the very elevated consideration which the 
subject opens, but which belongs to more abstract views than 
we are now taking ; this, namely, that the civilization of no race 
can be perfect whilst another race is degraded. It is a doc- 
trine alike of the oldest, and of the newest philosophy, that 
man is one, and that you cannot injure any member, without a 
sympathetic injury to all the members. America is not civi-- 
lized whilst Africa i& barbarous. 

These considerations seem to leave no choice for the action 
of the intellect and the conscience of the country. There have 
been moments in this, as well as in every piece of moral his- 
tory, when there seemed room for the infusions of a sceptical 
philosophy ; when it seemed doubtful, whether brute force 
would not triumph in the eternal struggle. I doubt not, that 
sometimes a despairing negro when jumping over the ship's 
sides to escape from the white devils who surrounded him, 



32 ON NEGRO EMANCIPATION, ETC. 

has believed there was no vindication of right ; it is hor- 
rible to think of, but it seemed so. I doubt not but 
sometimes the negro's friend, in the face of scornful and brutal 
hundreds of traders and drivers, has felt his heart sink. Es- 
pecially, it seems to me, some degree of despondency is par- 
donable, when he observes the men of conscience and of 
intellect, his own natural allies and champions, — those whose 
attention should be nailed to the grand objects of this cause, 
so hotly offended by whatever incidental petulances or infirmi- 
ties of indiscreet defenders of the negro, as to permit them- 
selves to be ranged with the enemies of the human race ; and 
names which should be the alarums of liberty and the watch- 
words of truth, are mixed up with all the rotten rabble of 
selfishness and tyranny. I assure myself that this coldness 
and blindness will pass away. A single noble wind of senti- 
ment will scatter them for ever. I am sure that the good and 
wise elders, the ardent and generous youth will not permit 
what is incidental and exceptional to withdraw their devotion 
from the essential and permanent characters of the question. 
There have been moments, I said, when men might have been 
forgiven who doubted. Those moments are past. Seen in 
masses, it cannot be disputed, there is progress in human 
society. There is a blessed necessity by which the interest of 
men is always driving them to the right ; and, again, making 
all crime mean and ugly. The genius of the Saxon race is 
friendly to liberty ; the enterprise, the very muscular vigour 
of this nation, are inconsistent with slavery. The Intellect, 
with blazing eye, looking through History from the beginning 
onward, gazes on this blot, and it disappears. The sentiment 
of right, once very low and indistinct, but ever more articu- 
late, because it is the voice of the universe, pronounces Free- 
dom. The Power that built this fabric of things affirms it in 
the heart ; and in the history of the 1st of August, has made 
a sign to the ages, of his will. 




I 



§ 




Jiuj^t l^ttiilij^ftctf, uniform bitft tfti^ 2)2ajxrS, 

SELF-CULTURE. By William Ellery Channing. 
^aper cover, 6d. ; cloth, Is. 

The LOG-CABIN ; or. The World before You. By the Author 

of " Three Experiments of Living," " Sketches of the Old Painters," 

&c. In paper cover, 1*. 6d. ; cloth, 2*. ; extra cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. 

"Thk Log-Cabin; or, Thk Would Before You," is a very interesting 
narrative of American life, including a vivid sketch of an early settler's ex- 
perience in the Forests of the West. The tale is told with beautiful simplicity 
and clearness, and every fit opportunity is seen and seized, whereby the principles 
and necessity of moral and intellectual culture may be set forth, and inculcated 
with effect." 

Will be published in a few days, 

HISTORICAL SKETCHES of the OLD PAINTERS. By the 

Author of " The Log Cabin." In paper cover, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, 3s. 

To be followed by 
The RATIONALE of RELIGIOUS ENQUIRY. By James 
Martineau. 



The Publisher of the above works intends them to form the first 
volumes of a series of judiciously selected works, embracing various 
departments of literature. 

An endeavour will be made to present to the public a class of inter- 
esting books entirely free from all sectarian thought or feeling, and the 
authors of those of the series which maybe of a philosophical character, 
will probably possess little in common, except a love of intellectual 
freedom, and a faith in human progress ; — they will be united by sym- 
pathy of spirit, not by agreement in speculation. 



Just Published, in Royal 8vo, price 9d., 

A NEW EDITION OF 

LECTURES to YOUNG MEN, on the CULTIVATION of the 
MIND, the FORMATION of CHARACTER, and the CONDUCT 
of LIFE. By G. W. Burnap. 

In 8vo, price M., 

The YOUNG AMERICAN. A Lecture. By Ralph Waldo 
Emerson. 




- ^<j^€^ ^^s^ 




