./ 



^' 



GEOTIRAL' RESULTS 



NEGRO APPRENTICESHIP, 



AS SHOWN BY 



EXTRACTS 



THE PUBLIC SPEECHES AND DESPATCHES 



THE GOVERNORS OF VARIOUS COLONIES, 



LORD GLENELG, 



AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIAL DEPARTMENT. 



LONDON: 



MARTIN AND CO., PRINTERS, 26, LONG ACRE. 



1838. 



fdS . 1^'^^ -'5 ^'«Y 



Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/generalresultsofOOglen 



These selections are intended to refer exclusively to 
tlie proposition for abolishing Negro Apprenticeship. 
In contradiction to the extraordinary assertion that the 
present state of the Negro, if not worse, is and will be 
little better, than it was under the system of Slavery, 
they prove, by a few conclusive sentences from the best 
authority, that the Apprenticeship has operated not 
only well on the Negro individually, but on the Negro 
and the White in their mutual relations : that it is in 
fact an apprenticeship, and a beneficial one, for both. 
That some abuses still occur, especially in prisons and 
workhouses, is not denied j but that they are much 
diminished, and that the development of a new social 
feeling has begun and is advancing, is here demon- 
strated. That it is still, though general, only progres- 
sive, may be fairly inferred from occasional expressions 
and particular instances ; but it is just and reasonable to 
believe that the right course has been chosen, and that 
perseverance in a plan already found so beneficial, 
affords the best chance of establishing an united Black 
and White population, which may by possibility be 
found capable of inhabiting and cultivating the English 
Colonies, in common, and with equal rights. 



It must not be supposed that the Whites, whether 
proprietors or managers, are at all easy as to the future 
probability of successfully cultivating their estates, even 
when the apprenticeship shall have expired according 
to the original contract ; but an abrupt termination of 
that state of probation and improvement would, in their 
apprehension, most materially increase their difficulties, 
and be considered by them as a violation of the most 
formal and sacred engagement. The following pas- 
sages, while they show that great and solid improvement 
is effected already, prove it still to be so progressive, 
and as yet so far short of completion, that the whole 
of the remaining term of the apprenticeship is indis- 
pensable, and will barely prove sufficient, as a prepa- 
ration for unqualified freedom. 



2Sth March, 1838, 



EXTRACTS 

FROM THE 

PAPERS RELATIVE TO THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY." 
Parts III. IV. V. 18S6, 7, 8. 

[_ Ordered hy the House of Commons to he printed.'] 



JAMAICA. 

Despatch from Lord Glenelg to the Marquis of Sligo. Dated 
Downing Street, 26th Sept. 1835. 

I have received your Lordship's despatches, dated, &c. 
The reports are in the highest degree interesting and accept- 
able to His Majesty's Government; nor can I forbear to con- 
gratulate your Lordship on the evidence they afford of the 
success with which, under circumstances of such extreme dif- 
culty, your efforts for the maintenance of peace and industry 
amongst the apprenticed labourers have been attended. II L 
(1.);.. 53. 

The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 28th Sept. 1835. 

In sending to your Lordship my usual report on the " gene- 
ral state of the island," I am happy in being enabled to say 
that every thing is going on in the most satisfactory manner, 
and that there appears to exist at this moment the most extra- 
ordinary quiescence. Id. p. 97. 

Tlie Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 2&th Nov. 1835. 

I think that a great change has taken place in the feelings 
as to the management of properties. TJiere docs not appear 



6 

now to be that anxiety for corjwral punishment wliicli its preva- 
lence for" so many years had caused them at first to think 
indispensable. 

I know of more than one instance of Overseers having been 
dismissed, for cruel and improper conduct, and in short I feel 
that I am fully warranted in making this report one of a 
favourable nature, though I think it not at all improbable but 
that I may not be able to make similar ones on all occasions in 
future; the balance however I feel assured will be of a pleasant 
nature. Id. p. 140. 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 13th Dec. 1835. 

The more agreeable part of this Report [the preceding part 
having reported the unhealthy appearance of the approaching 
crop from natural causes,] must be the extraordinary revolution 
which has taken place all over the island, with particular 
exceptions, in the mutual feeling of master and apprentice. In 
what this has originated it is hard to say, but the conviction is 
strong upon my mind, as well from my official reports as from 
the private conversations I have had during this Session with 
most of the members, and with other persons well acquainted 
with the feelings of the country. There has sprung up a spirit 
of mutual confidence, which I hope may be nurtured, and I 
think it will. Nothing can be so likely to promote the success 
of the new system, and, in fact, without it none could be 
expected. 

I am not aware of any exceptioft^ which I can make to the 
general report of a favourable feeling existing. Id. p. 150. 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. Ist Jan. 1836. 

With my usual report, I enclose to you the originals of the 
letters which I have received from the special magistrates 



yesterday. I must say tliat the majority of them have given 
me the greatest gratification, inasmuch as they confirm almost 
to tlie point all those opinions which I have lately given you 
in my private as well as public despatches, respecting the 
improved state of feeling lohich has lately appeared to exist 
beticeen master and apprentice. There is not one, I am happy 
to say, which announces anything unfavourable in the main, 
though in some districts the apprentices are less civilized than 
in others. 

I rejoice in the present state of things, because I am 
persuaded that the planters have become aware of the peri- 
lous consequences of harshness ; they have lost their former 
habits of dominion, and I think I am not deceived in saying 
that, with a very few obstinate exceptions, a totally different 
manner of treatment of the apprentices, which promises the hap- 
piest residts, has been adopted. 

I do begin to hope, therefore, that the treatment now adopted 
by the planters will be found so beneficial to the interests of the 
island, that it will gradually be ameliorated till the conclusion 
of the apprenticeship; that the conduct of the apprentices will, 
in a corresponding rate, improve also, till at last, in the year 
1840, the change from apprenticeship to perfect freedom will 
be accompanied by none of those ruinous consequences which 
are still anticipated by many. There are, however, many 
here who, though they behave in a perfectly satisfactory 
manner towards their apprentices, feel an internal conviction 
that they will not be able to assure to themselves the services 
of one apprentice after that period; these people, under this 
conviction, take no steps to prepare for the change they may 
suffer, and I fear will; but it will be their own faults; it is, 
however, time enough for that fault to be remedied, and I trust 
that the greatly increased confidence which has lately been 
very generally exhibited, will extend to them also. Id. 
p. 161. 



8 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 2l5if Jan. 1836. 

I am happy to say that corporal punishments are daily 
diminishing : sixteen weekly reports sent in this day contain 
not a single instance of it. — Id. p. 217. 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 2d April, 1836. 

I have the honour to enclose to you the usual periodical 
general reports of the special justices. With the exception of 
Mr. Baynes's report, nothing can be more favourable than 
those which I enclose in general particulars. The altered 
and increased good feeling between the masters and appren- 
tices, which I have before communicated to you, is fully 
confirmed. Id. p. 307. 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 17th April, 1836. 

In making to you my usual report, I am happy to say that 
the account I have to give in no manner differs from that of 
last month. 

The negroes are, I think, quite as much behind hand in 
their knowledge of agriculture, the use of manures, of imple- 
ments, or improved modes of saving labour, as they are in 
moral or religious knowledge. Id. p. 346. 



The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 2Ath May, 1836. 

My usual general report for this packet will contain little 
more than my former assurances of a favourable nature; in 
fact, complaints diminish every day, as all parties, apprentices, 
masters, and specials, understand the law better. Id. p. 374. 



9 



Uie Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 9th Ajml, 183G. 

A very improved spirit and feeling now exists in this island. 
Partly, (I.) JO. 33, 

Lord Glenelg to the Marquis of Sligo. \^th June, 1836. 

I have attentively perused your Lordship's despatch, and I 
entirely concur in the satisfaction which you express at the 
contrast which is exhibited by the trial and conviction of this 
person [an overseer found guilty of an act of gross cruelty and 
oppression] to the former case to which you have referred, and 
at the determination which I trust it evinces, on the part of 
the magistracy of Jamaica, to visit with adequate punishment 
cruelty inflicted upon the apprenticed labourers by their em- 
ployers, I anticipate the most salutary results from such a 
proof of the improved state of public feeling on the subject 
Id. p. 35. 

The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 9th July, 1836. 

I have the honour to enclose herewith the usual quarterly 
reports of the special justices in original; the most striking 
feature contained in the majority of them is the increased 
kindness of the managers to the apprentices; they have, in 
feet, found from experience that the most advantageous manner 
of managing them is by conciliation; while, however, this is 
distinctly stated in several cases, I am sorry to say that it is 
not universal. Id. p. 56. 

The Marquis of Sligo to Lord Glenelg. 23c? Aug. 1836. 

In making my usual report, the last which, in all probability, 
it will be my duty to make to you in the character of Governor 
of this Colony, it is my pride and satisfaction to be able to say, 
that I leave the administration of affairs in the hands of my 
successor in as easy a state as can be well imagined. Id. p. 172. 

B 



10 



Sir Lionel Smith, K.C.B. [noic Governor of Jamaica,) to Lord 
Glenelg. 4th May, 1837c 

With reference to the latter part of your Lordship's despatch, 
I have to acquaint your Lordship, that I am very sensible of 
the advantage of bringing under the notice of the proprietors 
or attorneys of properties, the occasional misconduct or intem- 
perance of their subordinate agents, and that I have never 
appealed to their good offices in such cases, without finding a 
ready disposition to interpose their authority in the manner 
pointed out. /c?. />. 122. 

Sir L. Smith to Lord Glenelc/. Wth May, 1837. 

I beg leave to enclose an abstract of punishments inflicted by 
the magistrates from the month of August 1835 up to Febru- 
ary last, and I am happy to have it in my power to state, that 
while the average amount of punishment is now considerably 
less than at any period since the commencement of the appren- 
ticeship system, the planters throughout the country, with the 
exception of the districts of two special magistrates, appear 
contented with the quantity of work which they obtain, and 
that a general good understanding exists between them and the 
labouring population. It is, indeed, to this satisfactory state 
of things, that the extraordinary decrease of offences, and 
consequently of punishments, must be mainly attributed. Id. 
p. 282. 

Lord Glenelg to Sir L. Smith. 28th Oct. 1837. 

It is very gratifying to me to receive the proof, supplied by 
the enclosure to your despatch, of the impartial administration 
oj" justice in a case in which there may have been room for the 
influence of local prepossessions, to the prejudice of the party 
by whom the action was brought. Part V. (1.) />. 132. 



11 



Sir L. Smith to Lord Glenelg. 24:th August, 1837. 

These instances [having reported two] of successful prosecu- 
tions against cruelty and violence have been very gratifying to 
me, as examples of useful influence. Id. p. 133. 

Lord Glenelg to Sir L. Smith. I2th Oct. 1837. 

I participate in the satisfaction which you express at the 
proof which is afforded by these proceedings, of the equal ad- 
ministration of Justice in cases where local influences might be 
supposed to have been most unfavourable to such a result. I 
cannot avoid adding, that I ascribe this result in no small de- 
gree to the moral impression of the even-handed justice which 
the local government dispenses to all parties. Id. p. 133. 

Lord Glenelg to Sir L. Smith. 2d Oct. 1837. 

I have received your despatch enclosing the reports of the 
special magistrates. These reports are, upon the whole, fa- 
vourable and encouraging ; they assure me of a decrease of 
complaints and an increase of confidence between masters and 
apprentices. 

I have read these reports [those for the following quarter] 
with attention, and, upon the whole, with satisfaction. Mr. E. 
D. Baynes gives, indeed, a discouraging account of the state 
of feeling subsisting between the apprentices and their em- 
employers in his district ; but I am happy to observe that in 
this respect his report forms a contrast with the rest. Id. p. 276. 

Sir L. Smith to Lord Glenelg. 17 th Jan. 1838. 

I have great pleasure in reporting to your Lordship that the 
Christmas holidays have passed over in perfect tranquillity. 



12 



and in the "best understanding between masters and apprentices on 
all well regulated properties. 

Above all, it is with sincere pleasure I point your Lordship's 
attention to the great diminution of complaints in the appren- 
ticeship reports. The almost general disuse of flogging, and also 
a milder system of treatment towards the apprentices is in pro- 
gress by those who are entitled to their services. Id. p. 326. 



BRITISH GUIANA. 



Sir J. C. Smyth, Bart. K. C.B. to Lord Glenelg. 26th Sept. 1 835. 

I have great pleasure in being able to report to your Lord- 
ship that throughout the whole of this Colony the most perfect 
tranquillity, happiness and industry prevail. It is also to be 
observed that the number of the planters and managers of 
whose conduct I have to express my disapprobation is diminish- 
ing fast: they can be named and counted. Part III. (2) p. 56. 



Sir J. C. Smyth to Lord Glenelg. ISth Nov. 1835. 

The good conduct, industry, and subordination of the labour- 
ers throughout the whole of this province cannot be exceeded 
by the same number of people in any part of the world. The 
happiness and cheerfulness prevalent throughout the Colony, 
together with the quantity of sugar and other produce manu- 
factured and daily exported, are irrefragable proofs of the 
prosperity of this province, and of the complete superiority 
and triumph of mild measures, over the harsh, degrading, and 
revolting conduct formerly judged indispensable. Id. p. 99, 



13 



Lord Glenelg to Sir J. C. Smyth, lid Jan. 1836. 

I have read with peculiar satisfaction the highly favourable 
report which you have conveyed to me of the progress in 
British Guiana of the system established there, under the Act 
for the Abolition of Slavery. The general good conduct of 
the apprenticed labourers, the growing confidence of the 
attorney and managers in the eflScacy of the new laws, the 
prevailing cheerfulness of all classes in their relation to each 
other, and the increasing productiveness of the Colony, are 
results which no man can contemplate without the most sincere 
pleasure. Id. p. 1Q4. 

Sir J. C. Smyth to Lord Glenelg. 28th Jan. 1836. 

There is a general appearance of happiness and content, and 
a marked improvement in the dress and in the comforts of the 
apprentices and of their families most gratifying to behold, and 
which are too evident not to be apparent to the most careless 
observer. I have the pleasure of being able to report to your 
Lordship that nothing can be more favourable than the present 
state or the future prospects of this Colony, as far as I am ena- 
bled to judge. Id. p. 122. 

Sir J. C. Smyth to Lord Glenelg, 14th April, 1836. 

I have only respectfully to congratulate your Lordship upon 
the continued decrease of punishment, and increase of produce; 
in short, upon the peace, happiness, and content which prevail 
throughout every part of this extensive Colony. Id. p. 162. 

Sir J. C. Smyth to Lord Glenelg. 6th Nov. 1836. 

These documents show, in the most satisfactory manner, the 
rapid advances which tliis colony continues to make, under 



14 

every head, and in every particular that could be wished or 
desired. My thoughts are now, (in the anxious discharge of 
my duty,) consequently directed more towards the future state 
of this magnificent province, and employed more in the consi- 
deration of what measures it may be advisable to adopt with a 
view to the ensuring the continuance of our prosperity after 
the \st of August^ 1840, than in devising the means of main- 
taining the public tranquillity, which, based (as I firmly 
believe it to be) upon the confidence entertained by the 
labouring population in His Majesty's Government will, I 
have very little doubt, remain undisturbed. Id. p. 502. 



* * 



See also irfra, p. 18. 



BARBADOS. 

Lord Gleiielg to Sir E. J. Murray McGregor. 2Qth Nov. 1836. 

His Majesty would not be disposed to sanction this Act, 
unless the objections to which I have adverted were obviated 
by the necessary amendments ; but even if so amended, His 
Majesty would be unwilling to confirm this statute at present, 
but would suspend his decision until the arrival, or the near 
approach of the time appointed for the close of the apprenticeship. 
I shall best explain the motives for this hesitation, by the fol- 
lowing extract of the Report presented to the House of 
Commons by the Committee which was appointed, during the 
last Session, to enquire into the execution of the law for the 
abolition of Slavery. They express their opinion, " that such 
enactments as are intended to come into operation after 1840, 
should, as much as possible, be delayed till that period shall 
arrive; and, at all events, be postponed till the time which 
more immediately precedes it." Part IV. (1.) />. 353. 



15 



ST. CHRISTOPHER. 

Sir E. J. M. MacGregor, Bart, to Lord Glenelg. Id Feb. 1836. 
(Enclosing Reports in detail.) 

I have the honour to forward reports from the stipendiary 
Magistrates of St. Christopher's, in the hope that the success 
of the apprenticeship system in that island may prove satis- 
factory to H. M. Government. Part III. {_%) p. 327. 



TOBAGO. 

Lieut. Governor Darling's Speech to the Council and Assembly, 

It is highly gratifying to me, in concluding this address, to 
be able to congratulate you on the continued tranquillity and 
good order prevailing throughout the island. The special 
Magistrates, to whose zealous services I continue to be much 
indebted, have in fact but little to do. The happy results of 
the good understanding which appears now to be fully esta- 
blished between the apprenticed labourer and his employer, 
are clearly shown in the trifling nature of the complaints 
preferred to the magistracy ; and I think I am not over zealous 
in considering the general good character of the apprenticed 
labourer in the Island of Tobago so fully established, as to 
render it unnecessary that I should again publicly advert to 
it. Id. p. 398. 



16 



TRINIDAD. 

Sir G. F. Hill, Bart, to Lord Glenelg. Uth Nov. 1835. 

It is with much real pleasure that I am enabled to forward 
to your Lordship the enclosed letter and report, which I have 
received from Capt. Peacocke, the chief superintending Special 
Justice of the Northern division of this island; and I feel 
persuaded that your Lordship will be as much gratified as I 
am at the diminution of punishment which appears thereby, 
as compared with former returns. It is a marked proof, not 
only of the improvement in the conduct of the apprentices, but 
also of the prudent and conciliatory maxims that are adopted 
by those who are in authority over them. 



ST. LUCIA. 

Lord Glenelg to Sir Dudley Hill. SOth Sept. 1833. 

The reduction made by you in the police force of St. Lucia, 
regarded merely as a question of fiinance, would have afforded 
me great satisfaction ; but this feeling is much enhanced when 
I consider it as an evidence of the peaceable conduct of the 
apprenticed labourers, and of the successful operation of the 
new system in the Colony under your government. It cannot 
fail to be a source of gratification to H. M. Government to 
receive from you those assurances of the tranquil state of the 
island, which alone could have justified the course you have 
adopted. Id. p. 472. 



17 



BAHAMAS. 

Lord Glenelg to Lieut. Governor Colehrooke. 1 5th Sept. 1835. 

I am commanded to express to you the satisfaction with 
which His Majesty has received information of so highly 
favourable a nature, as to the intelligence, industry, and good 
feeling of the apprentices in the Bahamas. 

No object can be more important, or more conducive to the 
interests of all classes of the inhabitants, than the extinction of 
those prejudices of caste and colour which were produced by a 
state of slavery; and I am much gratified to learn that, in 
several districts within your government, rapid progress is 
making towards this most desirable end; I trust that you will 
be able to report, at no distant period, that the same spirit 
pervades the whole of the Colony. 



CIRCULAR DESPATCH 

of Lord Glenelg to the Governors of the West India Colonies^ 
dated 6th Nov. 1837. 

The 1st of August, 1838, and the 1st of August, 1840, will 
form important eras in the history of the British West Indies. 
Hitherto the results of the great experiment of the abolition of 
Slavery have been such as to justify th^ most sanguine hopes 
of the authors and advocates of that measure. When every fair 
deduction is made for the abuses which may have hitherto 
attended the administration of this law, — abuses which appear 
to mc to have been the almost necessary result of the Colonial 
System as it previously existed, and for which therefore no 
j)erson acquainted with human nature, and the history of 

c 



18 

Slavery, could have been unprepared, — I feel myself entitled 
on satisfactory evidence to assert, that within a comparatively 
very short period, there has been an improvement in society 
and an accession to the sum of human happiness, of which 
history furnishes no other example. Part V. (!•)/'• S- 



BRITISH GUIANA. 



Extract from the Speech of the Governor, Sir J. Carmichael Smyth, 
to the Court of Policy, on opening the Session, Sd Feb. 1838. 
(Received subsequently to the production of the last volume of 
the Parliamentary Papers.) 

I am in the first place desirous of offering to you my 
sincere congratulations upon the happy, contented, and pros- 
perous state of this province. I challenge comparison with any 
county of Great Britain; and I affirm that fewer crimes and 
fewer breaches of the peace will be found to have been com- 
mitted in British Guiana, during the year 1837, than in any 
part of her Majesty's dominions of the same extent, possessing 
two sea-ports, and containing an equal population. 

3. When I reflect upon the good conduct of the apprenticed 
labourers ; upon their anxiety for religious and moral instruc- 
tion; when I see new churches, chapels, school-rooms rising 
rapidly in every district throughout this province, it is impossi- 
ble not to be sanguine in the expectation that after the expira- 
tion of the apprentice system, this Colony will be blessed with 
a religious, moral, and industrious peasantry, and continue to 
flourish accordingly. 

4. You are aware, gentlemen, that in a despatch dated so far 
back as on the 19th March, 1836 (now nearly two years ago), 
addressed by me to the Right Honorable the Lord Glenelg, I 



19 

deprecated the idea of shortening the period of the apprenticeship. 
Tlie sentiments I expressed in that despatch I still entertain. 
I consider the continuance of the pj-esent system until the 1st of 
August, 1840, as identifed tvith the future welfare of this magni- 
f cent province. It appears to me that if, in British Guiana, we 
are allowed to continue as we are, there is every prospect of 
our being enabled to slide almost imperceptibly into a state of 
perfect freedom. Excepting in cases of theft, the degrading 
punishment of the lash is unknown. Females are not permitted 
to be sent to the treadmill. The advantages resulting from 
labour are becoming daily more understood, and better appre- 
ciated by the apprentice. He is moreover fast acquiring a 
knowledge of the rights and duties which, as a freeman, he will 
hereafter have in the one case to enjoy, and in the other to 
perform. The proprietor, on his part, is daily preparing to 
meet the coming change. A kind and a good feeling between 
the employer and the labourer is everywhere rapidly gaining 
ground. It is no longer the master and the slave having oppo- 
site interest; but the husbandman who cannot effectually till 
his ground without the willing aid and the extra work of his 
apprenticed labourers; and the apprenticed labourer, who looks 
to the husbandman for that money, in payment for his extra 
labour, which he requires to enable him to take care of his wife 
and family, and to provide himself and them with those articles 
of comfort and luxury to which they have become habituated. 
When things are going on so well as in British Guiana, it 
appears to me that it would be little short of an act of folly to 
offer any interruption to the present system. 



20 



The Despatch, of lohich the following is an Extract, was 
addressed by the Colonial Secretary, Lorr^ Glenelg, to the Mar- 
quis of Sligo, as Governor of Jamaica ; a.td was by the latter 
communicated to the House of Assemhly., as appears on their 
Votes and Proceedings of the '2Ath May, 1836. It is dated 
Downing Street, S\st March, 1836, but is not included in the 
series laid before Parliament. 

The abolition of slavery, and the subordinate measures 
required to render it effectual, present a course of events alto- 
gether peculiar and anomalous. 

That great Act was nothing less than a national 

COMPACT OF which PARLIAMENT WAS AT ONCE THE 

AUTHOR AND GUARANTEE : binding the people of the United 
Kingdom to the payment of a grant of unequalled magnitude, 
it also bound the emancipated slave to contribute compulsory 
labour for several successive years, while it imposed upon the 
Assemblies the obligation of reconciling by proper laws the 
duties of the negro population, as apprenticed labourers, with 
their rights as free men. 

On the part of the British Treasury, as on that of the 
emancipated slaves, the agreement has been carried into com- 
plete execution. It follows. Parliament is therefore at once 
entitled and bound to enforce by its power, the performance of 
any part of the duty of the Assembly of Jamaica towards the 
apprenticed labourers, which that body may themselves have 
failed to fulfil. 



* 



A Petition, ofivhich the folloioing is a copy, was presented 
on the 29^A of March, 1838, to the House of Lords by His 
Grace the Duke of Wellington, and to the House of Commons by 
Lord Stanley : 



To the Right Honourahle the Lords Spiritual and 
Temporal in Parliament assembled. 

The humble Petition of the undersigned 
West India Planters and Merchants 

Sheweth, * 

That your Petitioners are interested in plantations 
situated in the West India Colonies, either as owners, or as 
entitled to mortgage and other incumbrances upon the same. 

That by the Act of the imperial Parliament for the " Aboli- 
tion of Slavery throughout the British Colonies, for promoting 
the industry of the manumitted slaves, and for compensating 
the persons hitherto entitled to the services of such slaves" — 
Compensation for the labour of such slaves thereby manumitted, 
was secured to your petitioners and others by a money payment 
amounting in the whole to twenty millions sterling, and by a 
right to the services of the emancipated slaves as apprenticed 
labourers during a limited period. That period in the case of 
the prsedial apprentices will net expire until the first of August 
one thousand eight hundred and forty. 

That such right to the services of the said apprentices is 
part and parcel of the compensation, in consideration of which 
your petitioners were compelled to resign their property ; and 
that the right to the said services of the apprentices is declared 
by the Emancipation Act to be transferable property, and on 
the faith of that law has been made the subject of sale and pur- 
chase, and of testamentary and other legal disposition. 

That your petitioners have learnt with astonishment tliat a 



22 

bill has been introduced into your Lordship's House, entitled 
" An Act for putting an end to the apprenticeship of those who 
were formerly slaves in the British Colonies," by which it is pro- 
posed to terminate the apprenticeship on the first of August, 
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, without providing 
an equivalent indemnification to your petitioners and others for 
the loss of that portion of the compensation secured to them 
by the Act, and of which they would thus be deprived. 

That any measure of that nature would be a direct violation 
of the Emancipation Act, which has been emphatically styled 
"a national compact of which Parliament was at once the 
author and the guarantee," would be contrary to all the rules 
of British legislation, and opposed to the eternal principles of 
justice. 

That although it has been alleged as an excuse for this mea- 
sure, that adequate protection has not been afforded to the 
apprenticed labourers, and that they have experienced cruel 
and oppressive treatment from their employers, yet your peti- 
tioners, lamenting that there should appear to be any founda- 
tion for such charges, respectfully represent to your Lordships 
that at present they, chiefly rest upon ex-parte evidence, and 
your petitioners confidently assert that even if proved they are 
the rare exception, and not the general practice of the colonies. 
In corrobation of this assertion your petitioners refer to the 
following extract from a circular despatch from Lord Glenelg 
to the Governors of the West India Colonies, dated sixth of 
November, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven. — 
" Hitherto the results of the great experiment of the abolition of 
slavery has been such as to justify the most sanguine hopes of 
the authors and advocates of that measure." 

That whilst your petitioners protest against the abridgement 
of the period of apprenticeship, they are not opposed to any 



23 

measure wliich may be found requisite for securing the due 
performance, by both masters and apprentices, of the several 
duties and obligations imposed upon them by the Emancipation 
Act, your petitioners confidently trusting in the justice and 
wisdom of your Right Honourable House that any measure 
for that purpose will be framed in conformity with the true 
spirit and meaning of the said Act. 

That the assertions made by the enemies of the Colonists, to 
the effect that no loss has resulted to the planters from the eman- 
cipation of their slaves, are sufficiently disproved by the fact that 
whilst the quantity of produce made is greatly diminished, the 
expenses of cultivation have been increased by large payments 
for extra labour. 

That the proposed abridgement of the period of apprentice- 
ship would not only be an act of gross injustice and a violation 
of the rights of property, but would materially endanger the 
final success of the great experiment of emancipation, and the 
maintenance of the Colonies as valuable and productive pos- 
sessions of the Crown, inasmuch as no provision has yet been 
made for the new state of society in which the Colonies will be 
placed upon the expiration of the apprenticeship. 

That the currency in the Colonies does not rest upon any 
sound basis, and that even under existing circumstances it is 
found difficult to keep in the Colonies an amount of coin suf- 
ficient for the wants of the population. That this will be ma- 
terially increased upon the expiration of the apprenticeship : 
when the labourer will have to supply himself with those 
articles of food and clothing with which he is at present supplied 
by the master, and the weekly payment of wages in money 
will require an increase of the circulating medium. 

That the establishment in the Colonies of a sound monetary 



24 

system, and the enactment of proper laws for the support of the 
infirm and aged poor, the suppression of vagrancy, the sum- 
mary adjustment of disputes between master and servants, and 
for regulating the militia, the elective franchise, and qualifica- 
tion of jurors, ought to precede the termination of the ap- 
prenticeship. No legislation on these important subjects has 
yet taken place, for reliance was placed upon the enactment 
that the apprenticeship should continue until the first of Au- 
gust, one thousand eight hundred and forty ; and further, it was 
the opinion of the select Committee of the House of Commons 
on Negro Apprenticeship in one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty-six, and of Her Majesty's Government, that it would be 
most expedient that such " enactments as are intended to come 
into operation after one thousand eight hundred and forty 
should as much as possible be delayed until that period shall 
arrive, and, at all events, be postponed until the time whi^h 
more immediately precedes it." 

That there is no precedent in the history of the world of so 
large a proportion of the population of a country being suddenly 
raised from a state of slavery to the enjoyment of all the civil 
rights possessed by the rest of the community ; and that the 
remaining period of apprenticeship affords but a short time for 
the deliberate preparation and enactment of those precautionary 
laws which so momentous a change in the state of society im- 
peratively demands. 

Your petitioners therefore humbly pray your Right 
Honourable House that the Bill entitled an " Act for 
putting an end to the apprenticeship of those who were 
formerly slaves in the British Colonies " may not be 
passed by your Right Honourable House, and that 
your petitioners may be heard at the bar of your Lord- 
ships' House by their counsel or agents. 



