rgs. ?5 13- V r»o.»^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/letterofappomatoOOappo 



THE 

LETTER OF APPOMATOX 

TO THE 
EXHIBITING A CONNECTED VIEW 

OP THE 

Mecent proceedings in the House of Delegates, 

ON THE SUBJECT OF 

mam ^m^wmn^'m cse? 9&&TOHQtird 

AND 

A SUCCINCT ACCOUNT 

OF THE 



DOCTRINES BROACHED BY THE FRIENDS OF ABOLITION, 



IN DEBATE : 



AND THE 



MISCHIEVOUS TENDENCY 



OP THOSE 



Proceedings and Doctrines. 



RICHMOND: 

Thomas W. White, Printer, 

1832. 



f^. 7?7J.3 noJ9 



S® 3N5HB IPWIBIW1®< 



The following essay is published in this form, not by the 
author, but by a number of gentlemen who believe that it 
presents a condensed view of the proceedings and debates of 
the house of delegates on the abolition of slavery within the 
commonwealth ; and contains a fair exposition of the evils 
likely toresult from such doctrines as have been advanced in 
this discussion. It is hoped that it will be read with atten- 
tion, especially in eastern Virginia. 






. 



TO THE PEOPLE OF VIRGINIA. 



[From the Richmond Enquirer of February 4, 1832.] 

The insurrection, which occurred in Southampton last 
summer, was, in every point of view, a most extraordinary 
event; most extraordinary, whether we have regard to its ex- 
citing causes, or its immediate mischiefs, or its general effects. 
For, as the very peculiar incentives by which it was insti- 
gated, could never have been detected by any effort of reason 
without the positive evidence of facts developed in the trials 
of the conspirators, and as the gloomiest imagination could 
hardly have prefigured such a scene of atrocious crime as 
that which marked the brief career of this rebellion, so no 
human sagacity could have foreseen, or conjectured, those 
general and remoter consequences, which have already flowed 
from it, and which, but too probably, may still flow on; con- 
sequences, the direct reverse of what common reason would 
have anticipated ; stranger than the exciting causes of the 
insurrection ; and involving and portending dangers and mis- 
chiefs, compared with which the murders perpetrated in its 
progress, were evils too partial and trivial to deserve a further 
thought. The proceedings of the house of delegates, would 
almost seem to justify a belief, that there was something pro- 
phetic in that hallucination, by which Nat Turner declared 
he was himself incited, and instigated to incite others, to that 
detestable and detested massacre ; namely, that " he had re- 
peated revelations from The Spirit, which fully confirmed 
liirn in the impression, that he was ordained for some great 
purpose in the hands of the Almighty." 

We have this man's own account of those instigations of 
the devil (to give them the appropriate epithet) which prompt- 
ed the conspiracy, and directed, throughout, the execution 
of its designs. It is curious to observe, how exactly, in his 
confessions, he describes the usual course of an imposter ; 
the affectation of mystery, sanctity and importance, the par- 
tial self-delusion which seems necessary to his success, the 
resort at last to ordinary incentives to mischief, and the whole 
process by which he works on the minds of others. He was 
moved, he says, by "divine inspiration" — by "revelations of 
the Holy Ghost" often repeated — by visions, wherein "he 



saw white spirits and black spirits engaged in battle, and the 
sun was darkened, the thunder rolled in the heavens, and 
blood flowed in streams" — by "loud noises in the heavens" 
also, announcing The Spirit, which instantly appeared to him, 
"and said that the Serpent was loosened, and Christ had laid 
down the yoke he had borne for the sins of men, and that he 
(Nat Turner) should take it on, and fight against the Ser- 
pent, for the time was fast approaching, when the first should 
be the last and the last should be first" — by promises of The 
Spirit, that " by signs in the heavens it would make known 
to him when he should commence the great work" — by the 
appearance of the first sign, which was no other than the 
eclipse of the sun in February last — and by the appearance 
of the sign again, namely, that unusual state of the atmos- 
phere shortly, preceding the outbreaking of the conspiracy, 
which gave the sun's rays a bluish tint. Prompted and di- 
rected by these supernatural influences, upon the appearance 
of the first sign, "the seal was removed from his lips, and he 
communicated the great work laid out for him to do, to four 
in whom he had the greatest confidence;" and, when the sign 
appeared again, he got together a petty gang of six followers, 
whom he incited, partly by the contagion of the evil spirit 
with which he was himself possessed, and partly by another 
spirit, which he invoked doubtless with better assurance of 
its efficacy, the spirit, namely, of brandy, to conspire with 
him in the great work. And by these seven men, was the 
great work commenced. Others joined them in their progress : 
but the whole gang of insurgents, from first to last, seem not 
to have exceeded sixty men, of whom five were free negroes. 
That there was no general plot of insurrection among the 
slaves of that district of country, or even of the immediate 
vicinity, is now quite certain. There was no concerted plan 
of action among the conspirators themselves ; no provision of 
means to accomplish their object; hardly, indeed, any defi- 
nite object. They rose in the dead of night ; and, in a thinly 
peopled neighborhood, where the alarm could not be rapidly 
spread, they succeeded, during that night and the following 
morning, in murdering ten men, fourteen women, and thirty- 
one children. It was a mere scene of massacre, than which, 
for the narrow bounds of space and time to which it was con- 
fined, none ever was more indiscriminate, ruthless and abomi- 
nable. Their last effort was an attack on Dr. Blunt's house 
by a party of twenty; which was repelled by two men and 
three boys. They were met, as promptly as could possibly 
have been expected, considering the circumstances of the on- 
slaught, by the militia of the county, or rather of the neigh- 
borhood ; by whom, before any of the forces wisely ordered 



thither from a distance had arrived at the scene of action, the 
whole gang had been dispersed, and all of them either slain 
in the pursuit, or made prisoners, except the ringleader, whom 
the sense of "divine inspiration" by no means divested of an 
especial regard for his own safety. I did not understand at 
the time, but I perfectly understand now, why so much pains 
Was taken to fix upon the people of Southampton, the impu- 
tation of want of promptitude and courage upon the occa- 
sion ; a charge founded on the single circumstance, that the 
first very small party which encountered the insurgents, fired 
with precipitation and without effect, and retreated to another 
party which was advancing, that they might return to the 
charge (as, in fact, they did) with assured certainty of suc- 
cess. I now understand, likewise, the reason of that graver 
imputation of wanton cruelty practised on the innocent, after 
danger from the guilty was over. I believe there never was 
a more groundless slander. If, under the excitement pro- 
duced by tfye sight of their murdered neighbors and relatives, 
and of the mangled bodies of women and children, and in 
the uncertainty existing at the time as to the extent of the 
conspiracy, some few slaves were slain, whom terror, not the 
sense of guilt, had urged to flight, far from being surprised 
at the fact, much more imputing blame to the militia on that 
account, a candid mind will find cause for wonder, and for 
praise, in the extreme moderation with which they checked 
the impulse of vengeance. 

The general effect which the news of this insurrection pro- 
duced upon the public mind, so far as I could judge from 
my own observation and information diligently sought from 
others, was exactly such as might reasonably have been ex- 
pected, and no more. At first, the thought naturally pre- 
sented itself, that the rebellion grew out of some more gene- 
ral plot for insurrection, extending to that whole district of 
country, if not farther; and a thousand rumors (of course) 
were invented and circulated, well suited to confirm, keep 
alive and renew that impression, in the nervous and timid; 
but all thinking men saw, at once, that if any such general 
plot had been in agitation, the partial outbreaking of it in 
Southampton was alone sufficient to avert its mischiefs. There 
remained a vague sense of insecurity, arising from the reflec- 
tion, that the mischief of such insurrections, however partial 
and transient, must, like the thunderbolt, fall on some par- 
ticular spot; and that, in the lottery of evil, it may perchance 
fall on ourselves, our friends or neighbors. This, I suppose, 
disturbed not the slumbers of any man of ordinary firmness. 
No such man entertained the least apprehension, that any en- 
terprise of the kind can ever eventuate in any general, exten- 



i 



6 



sive, permanent injury to the free white race which (for the 
present) constitutes this community; since the first alarm 
must always dispel the danger: the only serious apprehension 
was, and is, that repetitions of servile rebellion may result (in 
what all good men would lament) such a destruction of the 
slave race as may exceed the just measure of punishment and 
the necessity of example. Whatever may be thought abroad, 
these people engage our care, not only because they are sub- 
jects of property, but because they are objects of humanity, 
and, in very numerous instances, of affection. As to that 
universal panic produced by the Southampton insurrection — 
those thrilling agonies of terror, affecting, not only old women 
of both sexes, and children of all ages, from infancy to 
dotage, but bearded men, men of reflection and courage — 
that utter abjection of spirit, in short, and dastard cowardice, 
which, as I am informed, certain orators of the house of dele- 
gates, in the debate on the question of reference of the me- 
morial of the Society of Friends, depicted with such glowing 
eloquence; I must protest, that I have seen nothing of it ; I 
never heard any thing of it, till I heard of that debate : and, 
to speak plainly, notwithstanding the respectability of the 
gentlemen by whom it was avouched, I do not believe a word 
of it. I am quite sure, that the gentlemen, who thought proper 
to display their rhetoric on that topic, (those, at least, with 
whom I am acquainted,) have never themselves felt any thing 
of this panic. I know hundreds and thousands who are wholly 
exempt from this panic. Do we see any symptoms of the panic 
in the-conduct of the Southampton militia? in the promptitude 
and vigour with which they suppressed the insurrection which 
is supposed to have produced the panic, or in their moderation 
after it was suppressed? Let it be put to the test of experi- 
ment, when and how it may, I am convinced the experimenters 
will find there is no panic. Yet this supposed state of panic 
has afforded the main arguments, by which not only the pro- 
ject of liberation by colonization with due regard to the rights 
of slave property, but the schemes for abolition without the 
least regard to those rights, have been recommended ! 

Suppose this unmanly panic does, or did exist ; was it wise 
to proclaim it to the world? to bond and free? thereby, so 
far forth as the publication of the disgraceful truth can ope- 
rate, encouraging our slaves to rebellion as an enterprise ■)£ 
probable success and little danger or difficulty, and discou- 
raging their masters from any efforts of resistance, as likely 
to be unsupported, and therefore vain. Suppose information 
of the existence of such a panic addressed to a body of prac- 
tical statesmen; and suppose it agreed on all hands (as is re- 
ported to have been "emphatically said," or rather repeated 
after Mr. Ritchie, who repeated it after some southern editor, 



who copied it from the slang of the English newspapers) that 
something must be done; that, unless something can be done, 
we ought to "flee to the mountains for our lives;" that if 
nothing can be done, this land may be justly likened to Sodom 
and Gomorrah about to be consumed by fire from heaven, 
and the favored {ew must be warned to " stay not in the 
plain :" how could it be accounted for, that the direct obvious 
methods of dispelling alarm, and re-assuring the community 
of safety, should be overlooked? that no care should be given 
to revise and improve the ordinary police of the country, and 
to infuse into it more vigilance, activity, order, prudence? 
that it should occur to no man, to provide such a disposable 
force, as w 7 ould stifle the spirit of insurrection if it exists, or 
quell it in its first movement? I say, with entire confidence, 
that if the legislature would only provide, that a company of 
minute men shall be drafted from each regiment on this side 
the mountain, completely armed and equipped, placed under 
the command of officers appointed by the executive and act- 
ing under its general instruction, trained with more frequency 
and care than usual, subjected to martial law from the mo- 
ment of warning — organized, in short, upon the principle on 
which minute men were organized in the revolutionary war; 
this would be such a disposable force as would give complete 
assurance of safety to the country, v and render insurrection 
hopeless and innocuous, if not impossible. Who could have 
anticipated, that the bloody horrors of the Southampton mas- 
sacre, instead of suggesting plans for stricter discipline, would 
give birth to schemes of emancipation? Who could have 
imagined, that the friends of liberation by abolition, and the 
friends of liberation by colonization, would, by that cause, be 
stimulated to more active exertion, and to a rivalry of zeal? 
who could have divined that the projects of either party would 
find, in the recollection of that scene, the motive to a more fa- 
vorable hearing ? Have the accursed deeds of Nat Turner 
and his gang elevated the slave race in the opinion of our 
philosophers and philanthropists, and established a new title 
to favor? If the wisdom of any of these projects was as cer- 
tain and obvious as their absurdity seems glaring, ought they 
to have been brought forward — ought they to have been en- 
tertained at such a time and in such a juncture of affairs, as 
to give the appearance at least, if not to manifest the reality, 
that they are not recommended to our sense of justice or of 
policy, but addressed to our fears'? Our fears of danger, 
present or prospective, from our slavey! I blush — I cannot 
repress the sentiment — I burn with shame and indignation at 
the thought. S 

There have been presented to the house of delegates peti- 



tions from twelve counties and 1,188 citizens in all, praying 
that some provisions should be made by law, for the removal 
of the free negroes from the commonwealth; their views, it is 
obvious, are hostile to all schemes of emancipation whatever, 
and their petitions seem not, as yet, to have attracted any 
serious notice. Petitions have been presented from six coun- 
ties signed by 398 citizens, praying that an eifort should be 
made to procure an amendment of the constitution of the 
United States, authorizing the federal government to assist in 
ridding us of the black population : these also have hitherto 
escaped particular notice. Two colonization societies, and 
366 citizens of four counties, have preferred memorials and 
petitions, suggesting (I state their general object as I under- 
stand it) measures for the removal, first of the free negroes, 
and then of slaves hereafter to be emancipated by their own- 
ers, or purchased by the public at a fair price, with a view to 
colonization, and the appropriation of means to effect the 
purpose. Then there have been presented — a petition of 
sixty-one citizens of Warwick, the prayer of which I interpret 
to mean, generally, that something may be done — and petitions 
from Buckingham and Loudoun, signed by no fewer than 
twenty-seven men', — and petitions from Augusta, signed by 
three hundred and forty -three women, — and a memorial of the 
Society of Friends (of Hanover, I believe) — and a memorial 
of a meeting of (we know not how many) citizens of Albe- 
marle — praying for the abolition of slavery; some, upon the 
plan since proposed by Mr. Randolph ; some, in general 
terms; all without the least regard to the rights of slave pro- 
perty as by law established and vested. 

And upon the strength of these petitions, it was said, "that 
the people, stimulated by recent occurrences, with a simulta- , 
neous movement and united voice, demanded the interposition 
of the legislature, and required that something should he 
done!" And these are "the petitions from all quarters of the 
state," under which "the table almost literally groaned," cry- 
ing out in language so strong and so loud as not to be disre- 
garded, for something to be done. As that groaning of the 
table surely cannot be attributed to the number of the petiti- 
oners, it must have been owing to their quality — or, perhaps, 
the phrase was suggested by the peculiar tone of the petitions, 
and especially that of the three hundred and forty-three ladies 
of Augusta, who (as the house was solemnly assured) will be 
compelled to tear asunder the ties that bind them to their 
country, and to "fly to foreign lands in pursuit of happiness 
and safety, if something be not done to arrest this threatening 
evil;" that is, something which "in time will extirpate slave- 
ry." Were these "doleful jeremiades" (to borrow a phrase 



9 

from Mr. Jefferson) composed by persons who would not 
count, or for persons who they supposed could not count ? 
Or were they, in truth, only flourishes of rhetoric, intended 
to establish that fundamental proposition, which is the com- 
mon basis of all the projects, expressed in that happy saying, 
that something must be done °l There has been, I must say, a 
tone of exaggeration pervading the debates upon this subject, 
dictated no doubt by over-much zeal, which would be ludi- 
crous if it were not mischievous. 

The memorial of the Society of Friends (the first, I believe, 
that was presented to the house) was, after an unavailing op- 
position, referred to a select committee ; to which, of course, 
in the sequel, were referred all the other memorials and peti- 
tions as they were presented. This committee having been 
(for some reason not necessary to be inquired into) rather 
slow in making its report, Mr. Goode of Mecklenburg — 
thinking that the consideration of the subject by the house, 
coupled with the language of the daily press, which had taken 
part in favor of abolition, had caused the diffusion of opinions 
highly injurious to the interests and to the peace of the coun- 
try, that the action of the house on the subject was useless, 
that it was creating great pain and anxiety among a large 
portion of the citizens of the state, and that it was raising expec- 
tations in the minds of the black population, doomed to a dis- 
appointment which could not fail to engender feelings dan- 
gerous to all parties — moved the following resolution: " Re- 
solved, That the select committee raised on the subject of 
slaves, free negroes, and the melancholy occurrences growing 
out of the tragical massacre in Southampton — be discharged 
from the further consideration of all petitions, memorials and 
resolutions, which have for their object the manumission of 
persons held in servitude under the existing laws of the com- 
monwealth ; and that it is not expedient to legislate on the 
subject." Whereupon, Mr. Randolph of Albemarle, moved 
to strike out the substantial part of the resolution following 
the word " Southampton," and to insert an instruction to the 
committee, which would make the resolution run thus: "Re- 
solved, That the select committee raised on the subject of 
slaves, free negroes*, and the melancholy occurrences growing out 
of the tragical massacre in Southampton, — be instructed to in- 
quire into the expediency of submitting to the qualified voters 
in the several towns, cities, boroughs and counties of this 
commonwealth, the propriety of providing by law, that the 
children of all female slaves, who may be born in this state on 
or after the 4th day of July, 1840, shall become the property 
of the commonwealth, the males at the age of twenty-one, and 
females at the age of eighteen^ if detained by the owners 
2 



10 

within the limits of Virginia until they shall respectively ar- 
rive at the ages aforesaid, to be hired out until the nett sum 
arising therefrom shall be sufficient to defray the expense of 
their removal beyond the limits of the United States ; and 
that the said committee have leave to report by bill or other- 
wise." 

I have nothing to say concerning the motives which dicta- 
ted this proposition to the mover, or which have gained for it 
the support of others: the motives of individuals are, gene- 
rally, of no importance to any but themselves, and affect only 
their own consciences and characters. I am willing to be- 
lieve their motives virtuous : I discuss only men's actions, and 
the consequences of them. It will be remarked, that the very 
frame of Mr. Randolph's proposition as he has connected it 
with the beginning words of Mr. Goode's resolution, exhibits 
this project for the extirpation of negro slavery "in time," as 
suggested by, as a consequence of, "the melancholy occur- 
rences growing out of the tragical massacre in Southampton." 
This was, probably, the effect of accidental collocation: and 
I should not have noticed it, if the policy of such a measure 
had not been in fact recommended, throughout the whole de- 
bate which ensued, by perpetual references to the Southamp- 
ton massacre ; its actual horrors, the greater horrors it por- 
tends, and the terrors it has excited. As the proposal of this 
scheme stands acknowledged the eldest born offspring of the 
Southampton massacre, we need not doubt it will have bre- 
thren. And the very proposal, and much more the leading 
topic of argument in favor of it, contain a plain indication to 
those whom it concerns, that, if the proposal should fail at the 
present session (as it must have been foreseen that it would,) 
another insurrection and massacre, a repetition of servile re- 
bellion, would serve to promote the eventual adoption of the 
plan — or, perhaps, suggest to the friends of this great cause, 
an improvement upon their plan, whereby emancipation, in- 
stead of being deferred to the children of slaves born after 
the 4th of July, 1840, shall be given presently, to the existing 
race. The intelligence of the blacks — aye, and the ignorance 
of the whites — have been exaggerated, like the evils of slavery 
and every thing else that belongs to the subject, as if fancy 
held the pencil in her wildest mood, and mocked at sober rea- 
son and truth: but, (if no incendiaries shall find encourage- 
ment to action in these " miraculous" proceedings of the house 
of delegates) there are some few blacks that have intelligence 
enough to understand such indications as these, and to explain 
them to the rest; and the great body of the whites have intel- 
ligence enough to understand them too, though some few of 
them do not, and to apply the means of obviating their effects. 



11 

There are two obvious remarks suggested by that part of 
Mr. Randolph's amendment, which proposes to refer this 
hopeful plan of emancipation to the qualified voters through- 
out the commonwealth. The first is, that one cannot but ad- 
mire, that, either it never occurred to his mind that the inevi- 
table effect of referring such a question to the people, in such 
a form, would be to present all the topics that belong to it — 
the same topics that have been debated in the house of dele- 
gates — for public discussion in every court yard, in every 
neighborhood, at every public meeting of the people for any 
purpose; or, if this did occur to him, he should be utterly 
unconcerned for the consequences to which such a public gene- 
ral discussion of such a subject might lead; the agitating, ex- 
citing, maddening effects it might probably produce in either 
race, bond or free. The other remark is, that the reference 
of the question to the qualified voters at large, would be a 
palpable evasion, if not direct violation, of those provisions of 
the new constitution whereby the representation of the several 
parts of the commonwealth is adjusted; and if such a prece- 
dent were established, it would not only render those particu- 
lar provisions nugatory to all practical purposes, but the very 
principle of a written constitution futile. The history of the 
late convention cannot, I suppose, be already forgotten. All 
men must remember the vehement contest concerning the basis 
of representation, which so long distracted its councils; that 
that contest grew, chiefly, if not entirely, out of this very sub- 
ject of slave population and property, and the unequal distri- 
bution of it between the western and eastern parts of the state; 
that the western delegation demanded a representation to be 
apportioned, from time to time, according to free white popu- 
lation only, to which a portion of the eastern delegation ac- 
ceded, while the great body of it insisted, that representation 
ought to be apportioned upon a mixed principle of persons 
and interests, and this with an especial view to the security of 
our slave property ; and that the arrangement of representa- 
tion which was in fact made, was what the eastern delegation 
was at last content to take, though the western was unwilling 
to give, as our security against impositions of unequal bur- 
dens on our slave property, and against all manner of inju- 
rious legislation concerning it, by persons who had little or 
no common interest with us in the subject. , It was not sup- 
posed, at the time, that they had as little fellow-feeling for us, 
as common interest with us. And now, within two short years 
after this arrangement of the representation was settled and 
ordained, a proposal is made to refer a plan for the violent 
abrogation of the rights of slave property without the consent 
of its owners, to the vote of the qualified voters throughout 



12 

the commonwealth ! If such a proposition should ever be 
adopted, of what avail would be the scheme of representation 
ordained by the constitution, to the main purpose for which it 
was intended? of what avail to any purpose? If such a pre- 
cedent were once established, these appeals to the people 
would soon grow into a system. There is a plausibility in 
such proposals well calculated to work on the timid and wa- 
vering who falter under the sense of responsibility ; of whom 
some are to be found in all assemblies of men. Every ques- 
tion of great and vital interest — whatever the ordinary legis- 
lature cannot constitutionally do — whatever that body, as at 
present organized, cannot be prevailed upon to do, by its own 
authority — will be referred to the people in their collective 
sovereign capacity. The acts and behests of the sovereignty 
are, in their nature, paramount and absolute. From them 
there is no appeal but the last — the appeal to heaven. The 
obligation of the constitution will be, in effect, abrogated. 
We shall have no fixed settled principles of government, to 
which authority will look for direction, and to which indivi- 
duals may appeal for security of their rights— but a revolu- 
tionary government — I do not mean a government established 
after a revolution, but a government revolutionary in its ac- 
tion — to which obedience, not being due by any ordinary so- 
cial contract, must be exacted by force. The American prin- 
ciple of a written constitution, according to the school of po- 
litics in which I was bred, enforces the obligation of the con- 
stitution, whatever it may be, so long as it endures, on those 
who disapprove as well as on those who approve its provi- 
sions, and requires a strict observance of them, as the highest 
political and moral duty, from every functionary entrusted 
with the exercise of authority. 

Let us suppose all objections to Mr. Randolph's plan, 
founded on the violation it proposes of the rights of slave 
property as vested by existing laws, surmounted — let us sup- 
pose those prejudices (if any one please so to regard them) 
which attach men to their rights of property of all kinds, 
and the moral sense of right and wrong which influences 
vulgar minds, supplanted by a more liberal philosophy, or 
enlightened by a purer religion, or subdued by an imperious 
necessity which knows no laws and allows no choice — and 
then, let us bestow a brief consideration to the plan itself, in 
point of policy and practicability. I shall confine myself to 
the most simple and obvious views of it. The plan proposes, 
"That the children of All female slaves born after the fourth 
day of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty, shall be- 
come the property of the commonwealth, the males at the age 
of twenty-one years, and the females at the age of eighteen ; 



if detained by the owners within the limits of Virginia until 
\ they shall respectively arrive at the ages aforesaid, to be hired 
out until the nett sum arising therefrom shall be sufficient to 
defray the expense of their removal beyond the limits of the 
United States." Now, it is well known, that the owners of 
slaves must bear the charge of rearing the young, tending 
the sick, and maintaining the diseased, the decrepid and the 
aged; that they must defray, and are only enabled to defray, 
this charge, out of the profits of the labor of such as are 
in the vigor of youth or manhood ; and that, in the surplus 
of those profits over and above that charge, and in the in- 
crease of their slave property, very frequently only in the 
latter, consists their gain. And here is a plan, whereby the 
charge of rearing the young born after July, 1840, and the 
charge of maintaining the old, at least until the parent stock 
which shall then be in existence shall pass away, is to be im- 
posed upon the owners, while the profits of those who are in the 
vigor of youth and manhood, are to be taken away from them ! 
Without care for themselves, without care for their wives and 
children, all the profits of their other capital, land or money, 
skill or industry, must be devoted to the advancement of this 
scheme ; and even that fund would prove inadequate to ensure 
it success, or even to make a fair experiment of it. They would 
become slaves to their slaves — they must descend, indeed, to 
a much worse condition — for they would have the master's 
care upon their minds and consciences, without the sense of 
a master's protection. Is it supposed, that any tyrann}' can 
subdue us to the patient endurance of such a state of things? 
Every prudent slave-holder in the slave-holding parts of the 
state, would either migrate with his slaves to some state where 
his rights in slave property would be secured to him by the 
laws, or would surrender at once his rights in the parent stock 
as well as in their future increase, and seek some land where 
he rnajj enjoy at least the earnings of his own industry. In 
the first case, the country would be deserted ; in the other, it 
would be abandoned to the slaves, to be cultivated under the 
management of the state. The plan would result in a sacri- 
fice, more probably an abandonment, of our landed, as well 
as the abolition of our slave property. Can any thing but 
force, can any force, tame us to wrongs like these I But sup- 
pose that, by some miraculous influence exerted upon our 
minds, we could be brought to submit to the experiment which 
Mr. Randolph proposes to make upon our property and our 
happiness, and to direct all our means and all our energies 
to the accomplishment of his plan. Then, all the children 
of slaves born after 1840, will in 1858 and 1860, become the 



14 

property of the commonwealth, to be hired out, thenceforth, 
until they shall earn by their labor the means of transportation, 
and (I suppose) settlement, beyond the limits of the United 
States. There is not a man that ever bestowed a thought upon 
such subjects, who does not know, that property of any kind in 
the hands of the public, is worse managed, and more unprofita- 
ble, than property of the like kind in the hands of individuals ; 
and slave property let out to hire under the management of pub- 
lic agents, having no other interest than to enhance to the ut- 
most, the expenses of their agency, will be peculiarly unproduc- 
tive. Select the friends — select the saints — select the philoso- 
phers; the officers of this anomalous administrative department 
will give us the most flattering annual reports, and professions 
of benevolence, zeal and fidelity, without mercy : but they will 
not fail to appropriate to themselves as large a share of the 
profits as they possibly can. The young men of twenty-one, 
and the young women of eighteen, will not cease to multiply 
their race ; the breeding women will not hire for their victuals 
and clothes ; the children, the maimed and the diseased, will 
all be a dead charge upon the general fund of profits. We may 
be quite sure, that the nett profits will never suffice to defray 
the expense of the transportation of one half — no, nor a tythe 
of the number of the annual increase — unless, indeed, it may 
be anticipated, that this slave property of the commonwealth, 
left to the dominion of those who shall hire them from year 
to year, without any interest to preserve them, without any 
object but temporary gain, will be subjected to such hard- 
ships and privations, as will not only prevent all increase, but 
reduce the number within some manageable compass — in 
which view (and it is by no means an improbable one) the 
slave trade in its worst form, was humanity to the unhappy 
victims of it, and calculated to inspire noble and generous 
sentiments in the ruffians who carried it on, compared with 
the effects of this plan upon both races. I have no thought, 
that this plan, or any plan of the kind, will ever be put to 
the test of actual experiment; but if any such experiment 
ever shall be attempted, I apprehend that the parent slaves, 
seeing their children destined to enjoy freedom, will think 
themselves entitled to participate in the blessing, and that the 
young men, with liberty held up to them in prospect, will 
not be inclined to await patiently the slow, interminable ope- 
ration of that singular system of finance on which the re- 
version is to depend. There is no imaginable device better 
suited than this plan, to produce a general servile war, the 
consequence of which must be the destruction of the negro 
race; and in this way, possibly, it might tend to "extirpate 



15 

slavery in time;" but all men who have any concern for our 
own peace and happiness, and all who feel any real senti- 
ment of humanity towards the slaves, will concur in con- 
demning and deprecating the means, as most ruinous and 
most cruel. I see it has been gravely argued, that when 
slavery shall be abolished throughout the land, and the black 
race shall have been deported, there will be an influx of white 
population to supply their place. But when — in what "long 
process of time" — will the abolition and deportation be com- 
pleted? And while that work is going on, what white man, 
impelled from any cause, to leave his native land — if he can 
find another country in the world that will receive him, much 
more if he may find a happy settlement in the immense re- 
gions of the west — will ever migrate to Virginia, and en- 
counter all the numberless and nameless dangers, which the 
process of abolition and deportation cannot fail to engender ? 

Mr. Randolph (as I am informed) recommended this plan 
in debate, chiefly by the authority of Mr. Jefferson. The 
highest degree of veneration for Mr. Jefferson, and the most 
boundless confidence in his opinions, are natural in his grand- 
son, and amiable as I doubt not they are sincere; and if he 
carries such sentiments to excess, it only renders him, person- 
ally, more the object of esteem. But I am mistaken if Mr. 
Jefferson's authority is of force to make men forego the ex- 
ercise of common reason, and neglect the plainest dictates 
of prudence. And I shall say boldly (without fear or care 
for the charge of presumption it may bring upon me) that 
this plan, by whomsoever devised, and by whosever opinions 
sanctioned, is unwise and impracticable, pernicious, unjust and 
cruel. 

The arguments by which a constitutional power to abolish 
the rights of slave property, without the consent and against 
the will of its owners, has been claimed for the legislature, 
and vindicated in debate, would seem, to an ordinary observer 
of human affairs, altogether wonderful. Whenever in the 
late convention, any member of the eastern delegation ex- 
pressed apprehensions for the security of our slave property, 
the western delegation, and that portion of the eastern which 
concurred with them, treated those apprehensions as idle 
fears, and even as mere pretences, and made the most solemn 
assurances, that their constituents respected the right of slave 
property as highly as any other kind, and held them abso- 
lutely inviolable. I believed most of them were perfectly 
sincere — I did not think they were all so — I apprehended 
there were some, who even then thought of the existence of 
slave property as a weakness in the constitution of eastern 



1G 

society, which they might play upon, when it should suit any 
purpose they might have in view, and by which they might 
bend us to their wishes. But, in my mind, it was wholly 
unimportant, whether their professions were sincere or de- 
ceitful; for, whoever has any experience of mankind, knows, 
that men who vainly undertake to regulate affairs and to di- 
rect events, are themselves so much the creatures of circum- 
stances, the mere effects of causes, that none but the most 
vigorous minds are capable even of making an effort to re- 
sist them, much more rising above them, or know to-day 
what sentiments they shall entertain to-morrow. Let us now 
see how the professions made on that occasion, and those so- 
lemn assurances to the east, have been fulfilled. 

It has been by some gravely contended (in the debate in the 
house of delegates) that, though the rights of slave property, 
in respect to the parent stock now existing, are vested rights 
of property, yet there is not, and cannot be, any vested right 
of property in their increase yet unborn — as if every question 
of property did not depend upon the laws, and was not to be 
ascertained by reference to the laws — and as if the same laws 
(they have been in force for ages) which give the owners of 
slaves a vested property in the existing stock, did not also 
give them a like vested property in their future increase. If 
the rights of property in slaves now in being, be admitted to 
be property vested by law, which the legislature cannot con- 
stitutionally take away, how it can be reconciled with the in- 
tegrity of common sense, that the right of property in their 
future increase, assured by the same laws, is not equally vest- 
ed and inviolable, surpasses my comprehension. One gen- 
tleman, as he was at first understood, denied that there could 
be any property in slaves ; by which, as he afterwards explain- 
ed himself, he meant any constitutional property in them; that 
is, any property secured to its owners by the constitution : 
slave property, according to him, is only statutory property; 
the legislature is competent to repeal the statutes whereby it 
is vested, and so to divest and abrogate this property. The 
novelty of the distinction is its only merit; for it deserves not 
the praise of ingenuity. There is no particular kind of pro- 
perty mentioned in the constitution, and specifically assured 
to its owners. The constitution intended to secure all kinds 
of property to its owners, against the power of the public to 
take it away without compensation; a fundamental principle 
of all the governments of Christendom; a principle, which 
Louis XIV. or Napoleon, in the plenitude of their power, 
durst never openly invade. All our property is vested and 
held under statutory or common law; and, as the legislature 
has, surely, the same power to repeal the one as the other, I 



17 

should like to know what property is to be regarded as con- 
stitutional property, and therefore inviolable ? If there be 
any property, which, according to this odd distinction, can be 
regarded as peculiarly statutory property, it is the landed 
property of western Virginia, all of which was derived under 
statute law, and modern statute law : may the legislature, by 
repealing the land laws, take that property away from its 
owners, if it shall see or imagine any cause to do so, and re- 
sume the disposition of it according to its arbitrary will? — 
The constitution ordains, in express terms, that the legislature 
shall not pass "any law, whereby private property shall be 
taken for public uses, without just compensation:" to obviate 
which stern interdict, it has been suggested, that the abolition 
of slave property, by seizing it into the hands of the com- 
monwealth, in order out of its profits to defray the expense 
of deporting it, is not taking it away for public uses, but for 
the good of its owners, however they may think to the con- 
trary ! a specimen ofjesuistry that would have startled Ignatius 
Loyola himself. — But, " a voice has been heard from the 
west" — a voice from Berkeley — miraculous and overpower- 
ing as those "loud noises in the Heavens," which were heard 
by Nat Turner — a voice from Berkeley, proclaiming the no- 
table discovery, that our slave property is a "nuisance" and 
may be abated as such. And this notion, which seems to be 
the result of a mere confusion of ideas, is lauded as absolutely 
conclusive. It is remarkable, that this " nuisance" is more 
offensive in a direct ratio to its distance from the complaining 
party and in an inverse ratio to the quantity of offending mat- 
ter in his neighborhood. That " magazine of gunpowder" 
in the town of Norfolk, is a "nuisance" to the county of 
Berkeley, and to all the people of the west ! The people of 
the west, in which there are comparatively few slaves — in 
which there never can be any great increase of that kind of 
property, because their agriculture does not require it, and 
because, in a great part of their country, the negro race can- 
not be acclimated — the people of the west find our slave 
property, in our planting country where it is valuable, a 
"nuisance" to them! This reverses the proverb, that men 
bear the ills of others better than their own. I have known 
men sell all their slave property, and vest the proceeds in 
stock ; and then become zealous for the abolition of slavery. 
And it would be matter of curiosity to ascertain, if it could 
be done, the aggregate number of the slaves held by all the 
orators, and all the printers, who are so willing to abate this 
" nuisance," of slave property, held by other people — I sus- 
pect the census would be very short. The doctrines that have 
been for many years continually preached in Pennsvlvania, 
3 



18 

may, for aught I know, have rendered the slave property held 
in our counties lying in near neighborhood to that state, a 
"nuisance" to its owners — in which case, I am sure they 
have known how to get rid of it without the process of aboli- 
tion — and the same doctrines preached here, may, if we take 
no care of ourselves, make our slave property a "nuisance" 
to us. But the great argument by which the constitutional 
power of the legislature to abrogate our slave property, has 
been vindicated, is the plea of necessity ; strong, invincible, ab- 
solute necessity. And of that necessity, what is the evidence? 
The late massacre in Southampton; the racking sense of in- 
security, the benumbing panic, the unextinguishable terrors, 
which it has produced throughout the principal slave-holding 
districts of the state ! The necessity which our western 
brethren are under, to violate our rights of slave properly, 
to "extirpate slavery in time," and to begin the work without 
delay, is the necessity of relieving us from this our melancholy 
state of fear, which (as they have alleged and repeated a 
thousand times) the advocates of the just rights of slave pro- 
perty themselves, representatives of the east and of the south, 
have described and avouched. And these having really (it 
seems) indulged in some flourishes of rhetoric on that topic — 
having committed themselves (as the phrase is) and thereby 
imposed fetters on their own minds — are fain to bear the taunt 
which is offered as an argument for the injustice. 

Strange as all this seems, there has been language held in 
these debates yet more marvellous. I shall collect a few spe- 
cimens from the printed speeches of the advocates of aboli- 
tion, in order that the public may clearly apprehend the pru- 
dent care they have for our domestic peace and security. The 
gentleman who opened the debate on that side of the ques- 
tion, was very, very moderate: he only referred to the decla- 
ration in the bill of rights that all men are by nature free and 
equal, and applying it to our slaves, said, " It was a truth held 
sacred by every American and by every republican through- 
out the world. And he presumed it could not be denied in 
that hall, as a general principle, that it is an act of injustice, 
tyranny and oppression, to hold any part of the human race in 
bondage against their consent. That circumstances may ex- 
ist which may put it out of the power of the owners for a time 
to grant their slaves liberty, he admitted to be possible; and 
if they do exist in any case, it may excuse, but not justify, the 
owner in holding them. The right to the enjoyment of lib- 
erty is one of those perfect, inherent, unalienable rights, which 
pertain to the whole human race, and of which they can nev- 
er be divested except by an act of gross injustice." Another 
gentleman, after having said, with equal modesty and truth, 



19 

that "He was admonished by his youth and inexperience, that 
this was a matter demanding the most profound experience 
and the greatest caution and delicacy, and that, therefore, he 
had neither of those requisites necessary for its decision" — 
proceeded to pour forth k strain of declamation, whereof I 
give the following specimens, as proofs of the " great caution 
and delicacy," which he thought "the matter demanded:" — 
"This question of slavery, Mr. Speaker, is one which seems, 
in all countries and ages in which it has ever been tolerated, 
directly or indirectly, to have called to its aid a mystic sort 
of right and a superstitious sort of veneration, that has de- 
terred even the most intrepid mind from an investigation into 
the rights and an exposure of the wrongs on which it has been 
sustained." — "I esteem, Mr. Speaker, the exhibition now be- 
fore our eyes, and the aspect which this hall at this moment 
presents, as the grandest revolution of the age, a great moral 
revolution, in which our minds and opinions have triumphed 
over error and interest, and left our judgments free to decide, 
and our tongues free to speak, the principles of justice and the 
voice of humanity.'''' — He argued that "slaves, which were 
not property by the common law, were made so by statutory 
enactments ; a statutory enactment, which, by the operation 
of mere law, has erected, they (his opponents) suppose, an 
insurmountable barrier to those natural and unalienable rights, 
which we cannot divest ourselves of, and of which none oth- 
ers can divest us. The slave has a natural right to regain his 
liberty ; and who has a higher right to reduce them to slavery 
againV— "Look, Mr. Speaker, to France. Though we 
may deplore the scenes through which she has passed, are 
there any here who does not rejoice at her revolution? I re- 
joiced, Mr. Speaker, when her oppressed people tore down 
ever} 7 monument of her former kingly greatness. I rejoiced 
when all that was venerable and ancient was prostrated in the 
dust." [What? the good as well as the bad — the christian 
religion, as well as the roman catholic hierarchy!] "I re- 
joiced when I saw a foreign prince on the throne of the Bour- 
bons. And, Mr. Speaker, if those who are slaves here, were 
not what they are — if, Mr. Speaker, they were white men in 
oppression and bondage, I would rejoice in a revolution here. 
It is the line which God and Nature has drawn between us in 
their color, that the appalling consequences of such a result, 
are so deeply to be feared, so solemnly to be deplored, and 
so decisively to be provided against"— he means, not by mea- 
sures to keep the slaves in due subordination, but by projects 
for the liberation of them. I presume this gentleman can 
hardly suppose, that the blacks (whom he had already told, 
that they had a natural right to regain their liberty^ and upon 



20 

whom his eloquence will surely not be lost) will not see any 
thing in their own color, that ought to prevent him from re- 
joicing at a revolt or revolution effected by them. I was in- 
clined to forgive the mis-timing and misapplication of the 
common places of eloquence which abound on this subject, 
in consideration of that "youth and inexperience" which the 
gentleman himself acknowledges, and upon the unhappy 
JVlatthioli's plea, that they were spoken, "par indiscretion et 
volubilite de langue ;" but they have been written out to be 
printed, and printed, and published; and indiscretion is as of- 
ten as mischievous as vice, though certainly never so criminal. 
Another gentleman, with more art indeed, but in my opinion 
with equal indiscretion, said, that "He would not advert [no, 
that he would not] "to the great principles of eternal justice 
which demand at our hands the release of these people" [the 
slaves] — " he would not examine here, the authority upon 
which one part of the human family assume the right to en- 
slave the other — he would not open the great volume of na- 
ture's laws, to ascertain if it is written there, that all men are 
alike in the sight of Him, who must regard, with equal benefi- 
cence, the creatures of his hands, without distinction of color 
or condition." Yet, in the sequel, he did all this, and arri- 
ved at the same conclusion with the friend who had preceded 
him in the same line of observation, (to use a modern parlia- 
mentary phrase) " that the slave, as a living man, has a right 
to assert and regain his liberty if he can." It was an obser- 
vation of the gentleman who opened the debate on the side 
of abolition, in enumerating the evils of slavery, that the 
slaves "will be ready to flock to the standard of an invading 
foe, whenever he may be disposed to tempt them to it by hold- 
ing out to them the strongest temptation which can ever be 
presented to the human mind, namely, the possession of lib- 
erty;" and that "we may often have enemies, who will not 
be too magnanimous to avail themselves of advantages which 
cost them nothing." — Now, I ask any man, who has heard or 
read these debates in the house of delegates, whether, if a 
public enemy were landed on our shores, and he should issue 
a manifesto with design to bring our slaves to his standard, 
and to arm them against us, there is a single topic which might 
be expected to be found in such a manifesto, suited to seduce 
and inflame their minds, that might not be extracted from 
the speeches in favor of abolition? We might, indeed, expect 
them from a public enemy; but we never, never should have 
expected them from our friends and fellow-citizens. 

Let it be borne in mind, that these speeches have been de- 
livered in the house of delegates, with all parliamentary so- 
lemnity, so as to make the deepest and most general impres- 



21 

sion ; and that they have been spoken, and written out to fie 
printed, and published, in this city of Richmond, the place 
of all others, where their influence is most likely to take effect 
on the minds of the blacks arid to spread. Well, therefore, 
has this discussion been described as "miraculous!" But the 
miracle is a menace of evil, not ax. promise of good. I am 
very far from suspecting (if I did suspect it, I would say it) 
that the authors of these speeches, or any man among them, 
has the least design to incite servile rebellion : but, looking 
to the effects of causes put into action, I do say, that if through 
our supineness and utter exemption from those fears that have 
been imputed to us, such an insurrection shall break out, it 
will be owina:, not to the hallucinations or imposture of ano- 
ther Nat Turner, nor to the seditious practices of negro 
preachers, nor to the machinations of the organized conven- 
tion of free blacks in Philadelphia, nor to the dissemination 
of the incendiary writings of The Liberator, or The African 
Sentinel, or The Genius of Universal Emancipation — but to 
measures proposed, and to speeches delivered, in our own 
legislature, published and disseminated by our own public 
journals. By one of these, indeed, we have been comforted 
with the assurance, "That the intelligence of the slaves has 
long ago reached the point to which the fears of some ima- 
gined this discussion would conduct it. They have not now 
to learn those abstract theories which teach the universal 
equality of man and his rights; but the same extent of intel- 
ligence informs them of the impossible, the worse than hope- 
less expectation of engaging in a successful struggle for their 
maintenance" — that is, in other words, they have a reason to 
be convinced, but not passions to be inflamed. Is the justness 
of this opinion approved by the success of Nat Turner's im- 
posture on his gang ? Or has this improvement of slave intel- 
ligence, this perfection of stoical philosophy, taken place in 
the interval that has elapsed since the Southampton insurrec- 
tion ? Let us not rely upon such assurances as these, and 
neglect to adopt for ourselves, since the legislature will not 
adopt for us, those appropriate measures of vigilance and 
precaution, in which, and in which only, we shall be certain 
of the subordination of our slaves, and the security of our 
homes. 

The evils of slavery have been displayed in this debate, 
with an emulation of eloquence, most ill-timed, at any rate, 
if not (considering our actual condition, and while yet no 
plan of riddance has been settled, and the question is whether 
any such plan is feasible) unwise, ill-judged and pernicious in 
the extreme ; and, in my opinion, those evils have been ex- 
aggerated, too, in a manner which sober reason must forever 



22 

condemn. The subject is too large for this paper; neither is 
it necessary to my purpose, that it should be here discussed. 
It appears to me, that the real nature of the evil has been 
very indistinctly understood; while all the "ills that flesh 
is heir to," physical and moral, evils that flow from a thou- 
sand springs, have been indiscriminately imputed to this sin- 
gle cause. The least calm observation would have reduced 
the black catalogue of evils that has been exhibited, by the 
half or more : the least exercise of reason would have found 
some alleviation in a comparison of our condition, for good 
or evil, with that of other nations, and would certainly have 
traced many of the evils complained of as infesting our soci- 
ety, to other parentage. For example: I myself heard a gen- 
tleman impute the prevalence of the practice of usury to the 
existence of slavery* — for, as he ingeniously argued, the slave- 
holder obtains credit, and contracts debts, upon the faith'of 
the slave property he holds; and when judgment is recovered 
against the poor debtor, and he has to raise the money or go 
to jail, "then comes the paper- shaver, and kindly proffers the 
money at thirty-three and a third per cent.;" and "the \ery 
fact, that we see such cattle daily rising into importance from 
the dregs of society" — not meaning " by dregs of society the 
poor but honest man," but "men lost to honor, virtue and 
common honesty" — "is a proof of the necessity of a change of 
our condition." It was not perceived, that the argument con- 
cludes, not that slave property only, but that all property 
upon the faith of which men may obtain credit, is an evil, and 
ought to be abrogated. And I most conscientiously believe, 
that the day is not far distant, when a direct attack will be 
made upon the very principle of property. In these debates 
also, a general demoralization of the master race, has been 
represented as the necessary and inseparable effect of the ex- 
istence of slavery : and, accordingly, ignorance in "the great 
body of the people" throughout the whole slave-holding coun- 
try — idleness, dissipation, sensual indulgence, enervation, 
vice — luxury which tempts "the epicure to the groaning ta- 
bles of the palace, to banquet and to die" — whatever, in short, 
is most degrading to the national character of a community, 
has been imputed to us, with a boldness and insolence, which 
could not fail to kindle resentment, if we were conscious of a 
single trait of likeness in this attempt at caricature. As to 
the comparisons that have been made, between the people of 
the New England states, and those of the slave-holding states, 
in respect of the general diffusion of education among them, 
or rather, the contrasts which have been run between their 
intelligence and our ignorance ; I shall not deny, that " ele- 
mentary education" is more generally diffused among the 



23 

people of New England, and especially of Connecticut, than 
in Virginia, or any of the slave-holding country, or perhaps 
any country in the world, not excepting the lowlands of Scot- 
land; and I shall agree, that that kind of education is, above 
all, the most truly useful and valuable in a republican society: 
but, I apprehend, the superiority of the New England states 
over us, in this particular, is attributable to far other causes 
than the absence of domestic slavery there, and the existence 
of it here. To put the question fairly to the test of experi- 
ence, let the comparison be instituted between the state of 
intelligence of "the great body of the people" of Pennsyl- 
vania, and that of " the great body of the people" of the slave- 
holding country — or, between " the great body of the people" 
of ivestern, and "the great body of the people" of eastern, 
Virginia. This last comparison has been attempted ; and the 
result is, a vast superiority of our western fellow-citizens over 
us, in intelligence, enterprize and moral worth ! I presume, the 
result of all such comparisons would depend very much upon 
the pre-conceived opinions of those by whom they should be 
made. The contest is idle, if not pernicious. I disdain to 
defend the moral character of our society. Depravation of 
the manners and morals of the citizens of a state, the neces- 
sary concomitant or the consequence of the existence of do- 
mestic slavery ! Witness the republics of Greece and Rome, in 
their best days! Let common candor and justice give us 
credit for our virtues, and let malice make the drawback for 
our vices ; still, this society of slave-holding Virginia, and I 
doubt not that of all the slave-holding country, may challenge 
a comparison, for purity of manners and morals, for kindness, 
generosity and honesty, with any people under the sun. It is, 
however, fair to state, that a gentleman born in eastern Vir- 
ginia, bears testimony against us — " A slave population ex- 
ercises the most pernicious influence on the manners, habits 
and character of those among whom it exists. Lisping infancy 
learns the vocabulary of abusive epithets, and struts the em- 
bryo tyrant of its little domain. The consciousness of supe- 
rior destiny takes possession of his mind at its earliest dawn- 
ing, and love of power and rule grows with his growth and 
strengthens with his strength. When in the sublime lessons 
of Christianity, he is taught to do unto others as he would have 
others do unto him, he never dreams that the degraded negro 
is within the pale of that holy canon. Unless enabled to rise 
above the operation of powerful causes, he enters the world 
with miserable notions of self-importance and under the gov- 
ernment of an unbridled temper." I am afraid, that too many 
young men, every where, " enter the world with miserable 
notions of self-importance." For the rest (excepting the 



24 

Christianity in it) the passage I have quoted, and a good deal 
more that follows it of the same strain, is not original: if it 
had been, I should have passed it by without notice. In what 
part of eastern Virginia the gentleman was born, I know not; 
but I am quite sure his own observation never would have 
suggested the account li£ has given of us. There is not a 
man in this whole country, who does not remember playing 
in his boyhood, with negroes of his own age, and fighting 
with them too, upon a footing of perfect equality. He could 
not look upon the face of a negro child in the land, whose 
sprightly, cheerful, happy countenance, would not beam with 
evidence that the description is not faithful to the fact. He 
could not have bestowed a thought upon the actual condition 
of our slaves — he could not have reflected a moment, upon 
the ratio of increase of that population — he could not have 
adverted to his own statistics — without seeing, that we prac- 
tise not the tyranny, when we attain to man's estate, which 
he represents us as imbibing in our youth, and without find- 
ing in that fact, a complete refutation of the story he has 
thought proper to repeat. But what shall I say to his wilful 
attempt to dissuade the non-slave-holders among us, from 
uniting with the slave-holders, in executing the ordinary du- 
ties of police, intended to keep our slaves out of mischief and 
in due subordination ? I cannot see the following paragraph 
(extracted from his speech) in any other light: "At all times, 
the NON-slave-holders of Virginia are subjected to the most 
outrageous injustice by the presence of this population. To 
prevent, as far as may be, the mischiefs of insubordination, 
police laws have from time to time been enacted — the execu- 
tion of which, for the most part, is thrown upon those, who 
themselves own none of this property. In the character of 
patrols, they are made to perform onerous and disagreeable 
duties— not to protect- themselves and their property, but to 
protect the slave-holders in the enjoyment of that which it is 
the interest of the non-slave-holders should not exist. He is 
thus made to fold to his own bosom and protect the adder 
which stings him." The speech from which this extract is 
taken, bears internal evidence of having been laboriously pre- 
pared — a speech made rather than spoken, and then carefully 
written out for the press. 

In the scheme of the colonization society (as I understand 
the explanation given of it by its principal patron in the 
house of delegates) the most sacred regard for the rights of 
slave property, is professed, and, I doubt not, honestly de- 
signed, however, in its indirect effects, it may impair the 
value, or impose a burdensome charge upon the profits of it. 
This plan also looks to the ultimate liberation of the slaves, 



25 

and to the removal and colonization of the whole black popu- 
lation; that is, to the removal and colonization of the blacks 
now free, in the first instance, then of slaves hereafter to be 
emancipated, and last, of slaves to be purchased of their 
owners by the public at a fair price, with a view to the colo- 
nization of them ; for which purpose, it is proposed to ap- 
propriate $200,000 per annum, to be raised (I suppose, for it 
is hardly to be imagined that any other ways and means will 
ever be agreed to) by an additional tax on slaves. I shall 
not, at present, examine the policy or practicability of this 
scheme ; most probably, I shall never have occasion to ex- 
amine it. 1 have, however, looked at the gentleman's sta- 
tistics and estimates ; and they have raised in my mind not a 
little surprise. They are founded, entirely, upon common 
arithmetic, without regard to the known elements of political 
economy, which enter essentially into all calculations of the 
kind, and constitute, indeed, the only difficulty in making 
them. I tell him that common arithmetic will not work any 
one of his problems. But I have referred to this scheme now, 
only for the purpose of remarking, that I never should have 
expected, that the members of the colonization societies would 
press their schemes upon the attention of the legislature, in 
the present juncture of affairs, when there was, in truth, so 
little hope of success — when the only certain consequence 
they could apprehend from the effort, was to increase the agi- 
tation of the public mind, already alarmed by the rumors of 
projects — when they must have foreseen, that their plans could 
only be recommended by the same topics of argument that 
would lay the groundwork for schemes of abolition without 
regard to the rights of slave property, as well as their own — 
when they ought to have reflected, that it might appear (in 
the words of their own advocate) " that excitement and ap- 
prehension was the motive which impelled us to action;" that 
the adoption of their plan might be regarded by the slaves 
as a partial " concession" made in " the moment that an in- 
surrectionary spirit had displayed itself," and thus prove an 
incentive to other insurrections "in quick succession, until 
the awful drama would be closed by sweeping from the earth, 
a poor, ignorant, deluded and misguided people ;" that it was 
"a subject which ought never to be publicly discussed, until 
the general sense of the community was strongly inclined to 
efficient action, and the time, the mode, and the measure of such 
action generally understood and sanctioned*" that "above 
all, we ought never to excite in the minds of this ignorant 
class of our population, delusive hopes and expectations," 
making " them more unhappy and ourselves less secure." I 
should never have expected, that the gentleman who recom- 
4 



26 

mended this scheme of colonization to the house, would ha\ 
done so, after seeing the turn which the subject had takeu> 
and after finding all his arguments to prove thai something 
must be done, 'would surely be perverted to the accomplish- 
ment of a purpose widely different from his own, and, in his 
opinion, most unjust and .pernicious. How could it possibly 
have escaped his reflection, that the same prudential and just 
reasons, which lie himself assigned to show the impropriety 
of entertaining the project of abolition, applied with equal 
force against his own plan ? Will the members of the colo- 
nization society never perceive, that their exertions work ef- 
fects beside their purposes? From the first, their plans have 
been continually engendering vague hopes in the slave popu- 
lation, which supplanted contentment in their minds — " made 
them more unhappy and ourselves less secure:" and now, their 
efforts have mainly contributed to engender projects of another 
kind, yet more delusive to the slaves, and pernicious and 
dangerous, in every point of view, to them as well as to us. 
We are told, " That the idea of restoring these people to the 
region in which nature had planted them, and to whose cli- 
mate she had fitted their constitution — the idea of benefitting 
not only our condition and theirs by the removal, but making 
them the means of carrying back to a great continent, lost 
in the profoundest depths of savage barbarism, and uncon- 
scious of the existence even of the God who created them- — 
not only the arts, and comforts, and multiplied advantages of 
civilized life — but what is more valuable than all, a knowledge; 
of true religion, intelligence of a redeemer — ; is one of the 
grandest and noblest, one of the most 'expansive and glorious 
ideas which ever entered into the imagination of man." It 
may be so to those who can kindle their imaginations to hope 
that it can ever be realized; but with me, the vastness of the 
grandeur takes away all the nobleness, for it argues absolute 
impossibility. 

I observe a western member states, that a certain member 
from the east, had called on the western delegation for aid — - 
had invited all portions of the commonwealth to join in this 
sacred cause, to relieve us from the impending danger ; and I 
have heard that the eastern member alluded to, did call upon 
the western delegation to join with them, in some just, ration- 
al and practicable plan for the abolition of slavery. What 
that plan was, whether he had matured any, whether he had 
settled the first principles of it in his own mind, I cannot 
learn. I understand it was not announced. Whatever it was, 
the time, the juncture, the very predicament in which the 
question stood, the temper already manifested in the debate, 
might have admonished him not to givo his countenance to 



27 

any scheme of abolition whatever; for, -t was obvious that 
no such scheme as he could think just, would ever be agreed 
to by those friends of abolition, who had made up their minds 
to set at nought the lights' of slave property. If I could 
agree with that gentleman, that it is possible to devise a prac- 
ticable plan for the abolition of slavery, be would surely 
agree with me, that no work which human wisdom ever es- 
sayed, is beset with more difficulties ; that it is not to be ac- 
complished by a simple expression of legislative will; that it 
would require the most consummate ability, and weeks and 
months of the severest labor, to digest and mature it for 
practical operation. Until that work shall be completed, 
the plan matured, and ascertained to be feasible, all vague 
suggestions of the kind must be fraught with mischief. — 
But, in truth, I am convinced that no p\mi for the abolition of 
slavery, and the deportation of the slaves, is possible. I have 
given my mind to the subject, over and over again — I have 
examined all the schemes for the purpose, that have been pro- 
posed in my time, with a willingness and earnest desire to be 
convinced, until I found them all hopeless; and I have never 
seen one that would bear the lightest touch of examination. 
It might be possible to remove and colonize the whites — the 
adoption of any of these schemes for abolition, may, in eftec't, 
expel us from our country : but it is morally, politically, phy- 
sically, impossible to remove and colonize the black popula- 
tion in mass. Necessity, it has been argued, imperiously dic- 
tates abolition and deportation. On the contrary, we lie under 
an invincible necessity to keep them here, and to hold them in 
subjection ; a necessity imposed upon us by Providence. For 
I firmly believe, that it was a dispensation of Providence which 
sent them hither ; it is the dispensation of Providence, that 
here they shall remain ; and Providence, in its own good time, 
will dispose of them and us according to its wisdom. Such 
a change as is proposed, of the destiny of millions of human 
beings, is a work too mighty for the finite wisdom of man, 
and it is the part neither of true philosophy nor of true re- 
ligion to attempt it. 

In the event, the house adopted the following preamble and 
resolution: "Profoundly sensible of the great evils arising 
from the colored population of this commonwealth; induced 
by humanity as w r ell as policy to an immediate effort for the 
removal in the first place, as well of those who are now fi'ee. 
as of such as may hereafter become free; believing that this 
effort, while it is in just accordance/with the sentiments of the 
community on the subject, will absorb all our present means ; 
and that a further action for the removal of slaves should await 
a m,ore definite developement of public opinion — Resolved, that 



2S 

it is inexpedient for the present legislature to make any legis- 
lative enactment for the abolition of slavery." It is obvious 
that the question of the abolition of slavery is intentionally 
kept alive; and the agitating, perplexing, annoying effects of 
a general discussion of it, are visited upon the people of the 
slave-holding districts of the state, to the manifest detriment 
of their propert}', and the probable jeopardy of their tran- 
quillity and safety. 

Now, I too think, that something must be clone; and 1 shall 
give my fellow citizens, without reserve, my deliberate opinion 
what it behoves them to do,. 

1. I earnestly recommend to them to provide (quietly and 
silently, but, at the same time, promptly and sufficiently) arms 
and ammunition for the defence of themselves, and their fami- 
lies and neighbors ; to concert their plans of action among 
themselves, in anticipation of any insurrectionary spirit that 
may manifest itself among the slaves ; to hold themselves in 
constant readiness to meet and suppress servile rebellion, at a 
minute's warning ; to arrange voluntary bodies of minute 
men, in short, appointing convenient places of rendezvous for 
them ; meantime, to maintain the strictest discipline ; to stifle 
the slightest breath of sedition, to exercise the closest vigi- 
lance, to infuse the utmost activity, the highest order and pru- 
dence into their ordinary police, of which it is susceptible. 
Let no man shun the patrol duty. Let there be no inhu- 
manity towards the blacks, whatever cause of excitement may 
arise — for our own credit, none — but no neglect, no impru- 
dent indulgence. If we exercise due caution, no want of dis- 
cretion in others will endanger our peace ; if we neglect or 
remit a proper care for ourselves, we need not now expect 
that others will exercise any care for us, and our wives and 
children must bear the consequences of our supineness and 
folly. 

2. As our wise and considerate representatives have resol- 
ved to await, and in effect to invite, a developement of the 
public Sentiment, it is hardly necessary to remind the people 
of eastern and southern Virginia, of the vital importance of 
their next elections. I trust in Heaven, that no consideration 
of personal friendship, no partiality for private worth, will 
have the least influence on their votes — that thev will select 
their representatives with a single regard to this question; 
upon which their property, their prosperity, their safety, their 
very existence in this our native land, depends — that they 
will return no man who shall not openly renounce and abjure 
all projects for abolition, present or prospective, or for the 
liberation of slaves by colonization ; all schemes, in short, 
professing that object by whatever means or process. To my 



29 

western fellow citizens I do not presume to offer adviee: but 
I hope they will seriously and deliberately consider, whether 
iliey have any ends which can be accomplished by the aboli- 
tion of slavery (if that were possible) or by projects for aboli- 
tion, which can never have any other effect than to impair 
the value of our property, to jeopard our peace and safety, 
to light a torch, which, if it shall consume the dwellings of 
some of us, will surely be extinguished in negro blood; and 
whether, if they have any ends in view, which such projects, 
portending such consequences, may really tend to the accom- 
plishment of, these are justifiable means. I pray them to 
consider, whether any end can justify such means. And then, 
their next elections will resolve the question, whether inflam- 
matory language, which can have no effect but one, let it flow 
from indiscretion or over-much zeal and not from vicious de- 
sign, be excusable and praiseworthy in their eyes. 

3. I do most earnestly and deliberately recommend to all 
the people of the slave-holding parts of Virginia — and more- 
over to all the people of the southern and south western 
slave-holding states, who have a common interest with us and 
are exposed to the same dangers — to discourage every man 
by his own example, and by advice to his neighbors, the 
circulation among them of the papers of the Virginia abolition 
presses, upon the like reasons of common prudence, that would 
not tolerate the dissemination of writings wilfully incendiary. 
I do not think, and therefore I do not say, that our abolition 
presses are wilfully incendiary ; and, therefore, I entertain no re- 
sentment towards the editors. But to us it can make no odds, 
whether their publications are editorial or contributed — in 
the form of speeches or of essays — dictated by indiscretion, 
or carelessness of conseauences, or blindness to them : to us 
the danger and the mischief are the same, as if they were 
dictated by the most malignant design. The effusions of 
inflammatory matter they have already poured forth, and the 
temper in which they have taken up the subject, should warn 
us all of the burning lava yet to be discharged upon us; 
which, like the travail of a volcano in the immediate neigh- 
borhood of our dwellings, threatens the more danger and 
mischief, for coming from them. The public sentiment, we 
see, is to be "developed" — the subject is to be discussed — - 
and he that does not foresee in what tone it will be discussed 
in the public prints, cannot be made to take warning. Let 
us pay no regard to the claim which may be asserted for the 
independence of the press ; if, in the exercise of their inde- 
pendence, they choose to print, we, in the exercise of our 
independence, may choose to suppress, to the uttermost of 
our power, what we deem inflammatory, dangerous, mischiev- 



30 

ous. Every man has a perfect right to withdraw his subscrip- 
tion from any newspaper, and to discourage the circulation 
of it; and if he thinks the opinions it maintains, likely to 
produce evil, he is bound, in duty to his country, to exercise 
that right. I have been credibly informed, that the publica- 
tions" contained in a certain independent press during the late 
war, giving an account of the defenceless condition of Washing- 
ton, were the real incentive to Gen. Ross's visit to that city. 
The claim to such independence of the press, as not only 
gives it freedom to publish, but a right to free unrestrained 
circulation among those whom the circulation may injure, is, 
in truth, a claim to absolute dominion; which I shall never 
acknowledge in any man or set of men whatever. I want 
no sedition laws — I would have none — there is a check, a 
sufficient check, in the influence of public opinion, if timely, 
promptly and vigorously exerted ; and, in my deliberate judge- 
ment, prudence, justice, necessity, require the people of the 
whole slave holding country to unite in the exercise of that 
check, upon the present occasion, 

I have thus laid before my' countrymen, a full and fair ac- 
count of the proceedings of the house of delegates, of the mea- 
sures proposed and the doctrines broached there, and of the pro- 
jects not yet abandoned, upon which they are called upon to re- 
flect and to act. My conscience acquits me of ill will towards 
any man or set of men : it is a deep sense of the duty I owe to 
society, that alone prompts me to this publication of my opin- 
ions. I have given the public my thoughts fully and freely; and 
I would as freely give my name, if I did not know that that 
could add no weight to my arguments or opinions. 

APPOMATTOX. 



*> 



## 



There appeared in The Enquirer of the 16th February, a 
piece over the signature of Jefferson, intended as an answer 
to the foregoing letter of Appomattox, to which he published 
a reply in cUat paper of the 28th. And as this reply may serve 
lo explain some passages of the author's first letter which 
seem to have been misunderstood, by his opponents at least, 
and to impress the views presented in that letter more forcibly 
upon the public attention, it is thought proper to publish it 
here by way of 

POSTSCRIPT. 

To the Editors of the Richmond Enquirer. 

GENTLEMEN, — The letter I lately addressed to The Peo- 
ple of Virginia, exhibiting a connected view of the recent 
proceedings of the house of delegates on the subject of the 
abolition of slavery, an explanation of their pernicious ten- 
dency, and a fair and candid account (fair and candid, surely, 
since it was extracted verbatim from the printed speeches of 
certain friends of abolition) of the inflammatory and mischie- 
vous doctrines broached in the debate, has brought upon me 
the awful censures of two honorable members of that august 
body ; of the dignity of which, I had not, I own, till I was 
instructed by them, formed any adequate conception. There 
are "ear-marks" (as Mr. Pleasants says) which plainly indi- 
cate, that your correspondents, Jefferson and A Subscriber, 
both belong to that assembly. Under the mortification of 
censure " falling from such a height," it requires all my for- 
titude, and all my pride, or, if they please, my vanity, to en- 
able me to hold up my head. 

I see too, that you have on hand some three or four other 
answers to my first letter, and that one of them is " able and 
eloquent." These I hoped to have had the satisfaction of 
seeing in your last paper, and have withheld this letter, in 
order that I might be able to make a prompt and suitable re- 
turn for the honor of their correspondence. No one knows 
better than I, that he who publishes his sentiments in the news- 
papers on an^' subject of immediate political interest, which 
it is impossible to discuss without examining the conduct and 
opinions of the actors in the scene, must either invoke the 
protection of the Goddess of Dullness, under which he may 
5 



34 

escape unseen and therefore unharmed, or must make up his 
mind to incur personal abuse and to bear it with patience; 
and I know, likewise, that that abuse, however coarse, and 
however unprovoked and misapplied, never fails to tarnish, 
in some degree, the reputation of the person on whom it is 
poured. Therefore, if I had any purpose of personal am- 
bition to accomplish; if I were placed in any station, which 
required a careful preservation of my own dignity, as essen- 
tial to my usefulness ; if I were possessed with the kind of 
pride that has been imputed to me; or if I could resist the 
impulse of duty, which impels me to take part in the domestic 
affairs of my native state — for I have not, for many years, 
meddled in any other — the public would never see a line of 
my inditing in the columns of a newspaper. 

1 have very few words to bestow on that poor effusion of 
personal abuse, by which your Subscriber has thought proper 
to expose his own soreness to the laughter-loving world. I 
think the gentleman might, with a little pains, have found a 
more significant and appropriate signature; for instance, Hec- 
tor. Let me assure him, that he is welcome, for me, to order 
the affairs and reform the governments of France and Great 
Britain, according to his wisdom — I make no doubt he under- 
stands them thoroughly, since the school of political philoso- 
phy to which he belongs, has the advantage of an admirable 
simplicity of doctrine, that exempts its oldest professors and 
youngest disciples from all perplexities growing out of the 
obstinacy of existing circumstances, and fits them all, equally 
well, to give laws to all nations and societies of mankind. It 
wants, however, the great recommendation of being a new 
school, for it is one of the very oldest. And now, I have only 
to ask him to explain the meaning of the following passage, 
which has baffled my knowledge of syntax and the utmost 
effort of my sagacity — " The effect of his [Appomaitox Y] 
splenetic ebullition, may hasten the ' end' which he seems to 
suppose is had in view by others, and, in that light, will be re- 
garded by those who look to that ' end* as the object of pri- 
mary importance (if any such there be) rather as a fortunate 
occurrence than a matter to be deprecated." Did he mean, 
that the "effect" of my letter — or that "the end" it "may 
hasten" — maybe regarded as the " fortunate occurrence f" 
And what is " the end," and " object of primary importance," 
to which he alludes? For I, certainly, neither made allusion 
to any particular end, nor affirmed that there was any : the 
remarks of mine, to which doubtless he referred, were hypo- 
thetical as well as general, and plainly supposed, that there 
might be various ends (of which I pretended to no knowledge 
and hazarded no conjecture) to the accomplishment whereof 



35 

the annoyance of Eastern and Southern Virginia, by the agi- 
tation of projects for the abolition of slaver} 7 , might be thought 
to tend. If this writer will vouchsafe to give us an explana- 
tion of the passage I have quoted, couched in simple old Eng- 
lish, and nowise clouded with common-places " guiltless of a 
meaning," he may possibly, throw a light on the real springs 
of the late movement, which will render it intelligible to the 
meanest capacity. 

I willingly distinguish between your Subscriber and your 
other honorable correspondent : the latter (in the language 
of the real Jefferson) " merits the respect of a reply." There 
are, indeed, some sarcasms in his essay, aimed at the author 
of the letter of Appomattox, not at the letter itself, and some 
rude expressions, apparently imputable to mere want of flu- 
ency of speech : but I find nothing that oversteps the freedom 
usually indulged in polemics of this kind, or that may not be 
reconcileable with personal good will. And I am glad to find 
it so. No man is more loath than I am, to incur the ill will of 
others, if it may be avoided, and none more desirous to cul- 
tivate the good will of all mankind, if it may be obtained 
(which I know, but too well, it cannot) by honorable means. 
But I shall never sacrifice any principle, or neglect any duty, or 
suppress any useful truth, or tamely endure any wrong, or sur- 
render any right, or forbear to take the part which it becomes 
me to take, in order to conciliate the transient favor of others, 
winch would soon give place to their contempt, or to avoid 
that idle imputation of an " extreme anxiety to appear as the 
champion of Old Virginia, and the exclusive defender of all her 
citizens." By the way, let me tell Jefferson, (and I hope he 
will not take the remark as unkind, for it is not unkindly 
meant,) that he has no talent for satire worth the pains of culti- 
vating, and no turn whatever for wit or humour. For example; 
he quotes a passage from my letter, concerning- certain slan- 
ders of the people of Southampton, which he wishes had been 
made somewhat more intelligible— -propounds a string of in- 
terrogatories — answers them for himself, so as to implicate 
the abolition members of Assembly in the charge, though he 
himself thinks such an interpretation of it altogether unjust 
and absurd, but for the impossibility he is under, of conjec- 
turing the meaning of the passage upon any other supposi- 
tion — and then adds, "If Appomattox has been able to trace 
any connexion between the supposed attempt to slander the 
people of Southampton, and the recent proceedings of the 
house of delegates relative to the colored population, then 
verily his sagacity can only be equalled by that of the old 
lady, who declared, that she had foreseen, that the cow would 
eat the grindstone" ! ! ! I wish he had told us where the saga- 



36 

clous old lady and her greedy cow lived ; for I would fain 
know in what region wit of this order can be acclimated. 

Jefferson, in the order of his censures, and even, I think, in 
the vehemence of his indignation, gives the precedency to the 
Hanover memorial over my letter — it was a memorial, and a 
spirited remonstrance, as it ought to have been, and not, as he 
supposes, a petition. I apprehend, there can hardly be a 
member of the house of delegates, who would have ventured, 
in his place and upon his responsibility as a representative of 
the people, so far to have questioned the right, the sacred con- 
stitutional right, of any body of citizens, to lay their com- 
plaints and remonstrances before that house, concerning any 
measures proposed or advised there, which they think dange- 
rous to their rights and interests, as to have moved a resolu- 
tion denying the right; or reprobating the exercise of it in the 
very form and language, which the memorialists of Hanover 
thought proper, with good reason, to adopt on the present oc- 
casion. This new-born zeal for the abolition of slavery, has 
engendered all sorts of anomalies, so that one can hardly re- 
cognise the moral identity of his native state. The Society 
of Friends of Hanover present their memorial, wherein they 
only assume to themselves (in the meekest language, to be 
sure, as their manner is,) the King's old Irish prerogative, 
under Poynings' law, of devising and proposing measures for 
the legislature, and hold forth doctrines for its edification, de- 
rogating from the legal rights of slave property, and aiming 
at the abrogation of them, to the manifest detriment of that 
property, even if their projects should be rejected, to the dis- 
turbance of the peace and tranquillity of their neighbors, and 
to the jeopardy of their safety — and they are heard with respect. 
The partizans of abolition in the house of delegates, hold lan- 
guage equally inflammatory, and (considering that it is resoun- 
ded through the land from our own legislative hall, and by our 
own public journals, and speaking still with reference to the 
effects, not the motives,) more calculated to incite servile war, 
than any incendiary writings that have been or can be uttered 
at a distance, and compared with which the language of the 
Free Negro Convention at Philadelphia, is really moderate in 
the extreme — -and they write out for the press, and publish 
their speeches, wherein they take occasion to disparage the 
moral and intellectual character of our society — and they must 
be heard with respect ; and their speeches ought to be read 
with respect ; and no man may presume to examine the senti- 
ments or conduct of their High Mightinesses, without observ- 
ing the most scrupulous delicacy (they use aqua fortis, and 
we must use milk and water) under pain of being condemned 
for arrogance, insolence and impudence. But these forty-six 



37 

memorialists of Hanover, who and whose families and neigh- 
bors are lo abide the jeopardy they have created, because 
they have dared to state the grievance in the only language in 
which it could be truly stated, and with a warmth which served 
but to evince the sincerity of their apprehensions, are to be 
treated like the frogs of their own slashes, and pelted till they 
hide their heads under water, and cease their discordant croak- 
ings. And here is a member of the house of delegates, who 
goes into the newspapers, to heap upon them every epithet of 
contumely and derision he can find — " Knights of the Slashes" 
— " Lords of Hanover" — " Nabobs" owning " princely do- 
mains in the Slashes of Hanover;" and who, after bestowing 
the utmost pains to represent their memorial as the height of 
supercilious insolence, concludes, that " Doubtless they are all 
gentlemen no less distinguished for their talents and their kind 
and humane treatment of their slaves, than they are likely to 
become for their unaffected diffidence" (It is I that have put 
the words in italics.) Gan Jefferson deny, that this passage 
conveys, and was intended to convey, a plain insinuation, or 
rather a charge in ironical form, that these gentlemen are dis- 
tinguished for their hard and cruel treatment of their slaves °l 
And can he justify the imputation, or find the least apology 
for it founded in fact? The men of Hanover, very probably, 
will manifest no anger at this imputation to them of a crueltv 
they abhor ; not because they are wanting in "talents" to un- 
derstand the irony, or in spirit to resent the insult, but be- 
cause their consciences are so perfectly void of offence in this 
particular, that they will not feel it. They will have heard 
it with the like temper with which Washington received the 
newspaper charges against him, of partiality towards England. 
But I ask the men of the West, to note and remember the pas- 
sage I have quoted, and to let us know, at their next elections, 
whether we are to regard the sentiments entertained concern- 
ing us by Jefferson, and men like 'Jefferson, as a just repre- 
sentation of the state of their fellow citizenship with us. But 
Jefferson, forsooth ! " would not have thought it necessary to 
notice this memorial, had it not been for the unusual step 
taken in publishing it in the newspapers" — whence, 1 infer, 
it is his opinion, that he and his friends have a better right to 
publish their speeches in the newspapers, than the memorial- 
ists to publish their memorial — but wherefore, he alone per- 
haps can explain. As to his contempt for the "talents" of 
the forty-six Hanoverians, I only wish, that he, and I too, 
could have witnessed the mirth with which I am sure they re- 
turned it: they are a merry people. 

It is a general remark, founded on a thousand instances of 
daily occurrence, that the most zealous professors of demo- 



38 

cracy in theory, are of all others the most apt to entertain in 
their hearts, and to manifest in practice, the greatest contempt 
for the intelligence as well as the feelings of mankind. The 
people, in their minds, is an ideal abstraction, a metaphysico- 
political divinity, capable of conferring every blessing, and 
requiring no return but worship, which is paid without reserve, 
since it costs nothing but the breath expended in uttering it: 
but men, who (according to the simplicity of my ethics) con- 
stitute The People, are poor, frail, natural beings, like them- 
selves; who, being subject to the same wants and passions, 
cross them at every turn; and to whom no forbearance can 
be shewn, no good offices can be ministered, not even sym- 
pathy given to their sufferings, without some labor or trou- 
ble or sacrifice of self love. I pity the man, who values the 
atom of the essence of The Divinity of The People, or the 
portion of the adoration paid to it, which falls to his share; 
and so little price do I set on mine, that I would gladly take 
the slightest kindness to an}' set of men or single individual, 
the most trivial good work imaginable, for all the professions, 
the flatteries, the praises, the worship, adoration and idolatry, 
offered to The Divinity of The People. 

Conscious as I am, of being studious of accuracy always, 
and habituated to the practice of it, and of having been par- 
ticularly attentive to it in my account of the proceedings of 
the house of delegates on the subject of slavery, T was a lit- 
tle surprised, when Jefferson announced his purpose to men- 
tion some circumstances that had escaped my observation, and 
to dispute some of the inferences I had drawn from the facts 
I had stated. But I was much more surprised when I found 
that the circumstances which had escaped my observation, 
were — "a rumour, which prevailed to some extent in the 
beginning of the winter," "that a gentleman of distinguished 
talents from the south side of James River" [Mr. Randolph 
of Roanoke] "had actually taken rooms at a boarding house 
in the city, in order to prevent any effort being made by the 
legislature, at its present session, to interfere with the sub- 
ject of slavery in any way" — and a conjecture, " that if the 
attempt to suppress any inquiry into the subject this winter, 
should succeed, that then, the gentleman alluded to and the 
reputed author of Appomattox, were to come to the next 
general assembly, to put the question of emancipation at rest 
forever:" he adds, "Whether the conjecture was well founded 
or not, I cannot undertake to determine; I did not think it at 
all improbable." Now, what had this rumour and this con- 
jecture to do with any account of the actual proceedings of 
the house of delegates on the subject t Surely, Jefferson 
would not have us infer, that the rumour and conjecture con- 



39 % 

stituted any part of the motive, that induced the ogitation of 
the question, at the present session! If they did, it is one of 
the oddest circumstances (tho' the least important) of this 
strange history. I do not doubt, that Jefferson heard the 
rumour and the conjecture, and gave some credit to the latter, 
because he says so — besides, all sorts of stories are daily in- 
vented, circulated and believed for facts, about every thing 
and every body, and, especially about Mr. Randolph, con- 
cerning whom it is the rarest thing imaginable to hear one 
word of pure truth. I never heard of either the rumour or 
the conjecture; and if I had, I should have known that they 
were both wholly unfounded. If Mr. Randolph had any 
thought of spending the winter here, I am quite sure he had 
no such view as that which the rumour attributed to him : he 
did not impart the purpose to his friends : even his sagacity 
could not have anticipated — mortal man could not have di- 
vined — the movement which was made in the house of dele- 
gates; and he is the last man in the world, that would think 
of interfering with its proceedings upon this or any other 
subject. For myself, I never dreamed of what was to come 
to pass, till I read the paragraph in The Enquirer, which 
caused the controversy between the editors and Mr. Alexan- 
der. That, indeed, roused my attention, like the cry of fire 
in the dead of night; and I saw, at once, that the flames had 
burst out, and quickly apprehended the extent of the mis- 
chief. Yet I never thought, and do not now think, of seek- 
ing a seat in the general assembly. — As to Jefferson 9 s other 
corrections of my narrative, I should hardly notice them but 
for the ambition I have to establish my claim to the strictest 
accuracy. I said, that the petitions of the 1188 citizens, sug- 
gesting the removal of the free negroes, "seemed not, as yet, 
to have attracted any serious notice" — meaning, the notice of 
the house — public discussion there: Jefferson wonders, how 
it should have appeared to me, "that those petitions had not 
attracted the serious attention of the committee" — namely, the 
select committee, to whom the subject was referred. In my 
opinion, it was obvious, that the views of those petitioners 
" were hostile to all schemes of emancipation whatever" — 
Jefferson, on the contrary, thinks it "perfectly obvious, to 
any unprejudiced man who will take the trouble to read the 
petitions, that the petitioners were not only not obviously op- 
posed to, but that they are obviously in favor of, some scheme 
for removing the whole of our colored population." He will 
not allow me to be, and I shall not allow him to be, the "un- 
prejudiced man." I have only to say, that I described the 
general object and sentiments of the petitioners, as accurately 
as I possibly could in the few words I gave to the purpose. 



40 

My remark, that the select committee was "rather slow in 
making its report," was a simple statement of the fact r 
without approbation or blame: but Jefferson thinks it inju- 
rious to the committee. I might have said it was very slow — 
as any man will think, who will reflect on the interest of the 
subject, and count the time between the reference and the 
first report. Yet I did not, and do not mean, to impute any 
blame to the committee, on this account, or indeed any other. 
I did not say, that that slowness of the committee in making 
a report, induced Mr. Goode to bring the subject at once be- 
fore the house, though, I dare say, I might have affirmed it 
with truth : I stated Mr. Goode's motives in an abridgement 
of his own words. 

It is impossible to make oneself understood by others, if 
they will insist upon clothing his thoughts in their own lan- 
guage, /spoke not of any "pledges" given by the western 
to the eastern delegation, in the convention, to hold our 
rights of slave property sacred and inviolable: I well knew 
there was but one "pledge" touching the subject, and that 
that was given by the whole convention, una voce, which, ex- 
plicit as it is, it is now attempted to explain away and evade; 
namely, the express provision of the constitution, securing 
private rights of property of all kinds, to the owners, against 
the power of the legislature. I mentioned the "professions" 
the "solemn assurances" of the western delegation, on this 
very subject of slave property. My purpose was, to illustrate 
the value of " professions" made by politicians, and to exem- 
plify the folly of giving trust to them. It was a most preg- 
nant example, if a bill for the abolition of slavery and de- 
portation of the slaves, shall ever come to be gravely debated 
in the legislature, and its opponents shall remonstrate, that 
the deportation, being impracticable, will be abandoned upon 
the first essay of the experiment, and nothing left of the plan 
but simple abolition, the most solemn professions will be made, 
and assurances given, that the deportation is the main object, 
and never will be abandoned; but the successors of those 
who shall amuse us with such professions and assurances, will 
never regard themselves as at all bound to fulfil them, or to 
stop short of simple abolition. That is, in truth, the end to 
which all these projects tend; and the end, I fear, at which 
many of the projectors are even now aiming. 

I quoted a passage from a speech of Mr. Summers, where- 
in he painted the national character of the citizens of the whole 
slave holding country, as impressed upon us in our very in- 
fancy and growing with our growth, in the most odious colors; 
and I said, that it was not "original" Jefferson, knowing 
well where the original was to be found, and having (it would 



41 

seem) compared the passage with the answer to the 18th 
query in Mr. Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, has thought proper 
to recast my remark in words suited to his own idea of the 
fact, and to make me charge Mr. Summers with "plagiarism." 
I never thought of making an objection so puerile: the ora- 
tor might, for aught I cared, have borrowed his whole speech 
from others, and I should never have taken the pains to ascer- 
tain the true owner, provided the sentiments he borrowed 
were in themselves true and just. My objection to Mr. Sum- 
mers' character of us, was not that it was borrowed, but that 
it was unjust. And it was because it was not original — be- 
cause it was known to have been drawn by Mr. Jefferson — 
because, upon his authority, it has been repeated a thousand 
times — because, upon his authority, it has gone forth to the 
world, as our true national character, the only one known to 
the nations of Europe, the only one known to the citizens of 
some of the states of this union — because it is a most odious 
one — and because I know and feel that it is most unjust; — 
therefore, I took the opportunity to refute it, by an appeal to 
common observation and undeniable facts. And if my own 
father had been the author of it, I would have refuted it in 
the same manner. I desire Jefferson to understand, that I 
am perfectly careless what motives he or any body else may 
find for my conduct. — Mr. Summers put the finishing touch 
to the character of the young man of Old Virginia, as affect- 
ed by the existence of slavery, with the remark, that " he 
enters the world with miserable notions of self importance, 
and under the government of an unbridled temper" — upon 
which I observed, "I was afraid too many } r oung men, every 
where, enter the world with miserable notions of self impor- 
tance." Jefferson, manifestly understanding this observation 
as a sarcasm upon his friend, Mr. Summers, and designing 
to retort it upon me, asks whether I "might not have added, 
that there were at least some likely to carry the same notions 
to the grave?" By this unhappy attempt at sarcasm and 
retort, he has made a general remark of mine a personal re- 
flection, and applied it to Mr. Summers. I certainly shall 
not quarrel with that application of it: but, in truth, I meant 
no more than to suggest, that the presumption of youth (of 
which, by the way, I am very tolerant) was nowise peculiar 
to a slave holding country ; and, so far from thinking of any 
personal reflection on Mr. Summers, it never occurred to me, 
that he could be regarded as a young man just entering into 
the world, or that he had not been bred, as well as born, in 
eastern Virginia; so that his case was, by no means, in my 
own opinion, an example to my purpose. 

Jefferson also, by way of retorting the charge of plagiarism 



42 

against me, which he supposes I was desirous of fixing upon 
another, intimates, that all my sentiments, my whole political 
creed, and especially, my exclamation about overturning the 
christian religion in France, have been borrowed from Edmund 
Burke's work [letter?] upon the French revolution ; and he even 
insinuates (if I understand him) that I have borrowed from the 
speeches in the house of delegates on my side of the question. 
It is a matter of no importance to the only material question, 
whether my opinions are right or wrong — I should have bor- 
rowed whatever suited my purpose, and I myself approved as 
right, without the least hesitation — but it has been near twenty 
years since I read the work of Burke, to which he alludes, 
and a very short time since I read some of the speeches — and 
I may safely defy him to fix the charge of plagiarism upon 
me. I cannot help suspecting, that Jefferson is not very con- 
versant with the writings of Burke, Would to Heaven that 
a diligent study of them could transfuse into his readers, his 
extensive knowledge and profound political sagacity ! I have 
often wondered at the hatred which still pursues his memory. 
I know nothing so remarkable in his writings, as the precision 
with which he pointed out the false steps taken by the French 
reformers in their first revolution, and predicted the conse- 
quences, which their subsequent history developed. My po- 
litical principles and opinions, however, are referrible only to 
the peculiar circumstances of my own country, and have been 
gathered, almost exclusively, in the school of American politi- 
cians. As to the nations of Europe, I have long ago given 
them up to their fate — or rather to their own governance — be- 
ing conscious of my own utter incompetency to make or mend, 
to preserve, abolish, reform, or re-construct, their political in- 
stitutions. I am not, indeed, indifferent to their welfare — I 
cannot be — but I have no anxiety on their account that ever 
affects my appetite or my sleep. 

When I said, that Mr. Randolph (the mover of the plan for 
abolition and deportation to commence in 1840) recommended 
that plan in debate, chiejly by the authority of Mr. Jefferson, 
his speech had not been published, and I repeated what I had 
heard, but with the most cautious delicacy to avoid wounding 
him. I sincerely respected his feelings, though I could not 
approve his opinions. Of his motive for referring to Mr. Jef- 
ferson's authority, I had heard nothing, and therefore said 
nothing. Whether or no that authority was the chief recom- 
mendation of the plan, is, after all, matter of opinion. 

When I disclaimed the influence of that authority, and said 
(as a consequence deduced from the view I had just before ex- 
hibited of its inevitable operation and effects) that it was 
"unwise and impracticable, pernicious, unjust and cruel," I 



43 

anticipated the charge of presumption it would bring against 
me ; and, as I did not fear it in prospect, so neither am I ap- 
palled by it now that it is made. Mr. Jefferson's character 
must, ere long, be universally regarded as belonging to im- 
partial history — / so regard it now. Considering how much 
he had been engaged in real and important business, and his 
undoubted capacity, he was singularly addicted to specula- 
tions merely philosophical, and entertained some odd opinions. 
For instance : he has somewhere, gravely maintained the 
opinion, that no country ought to be long without a rebellion. 
It was more remarkable of him than, perhaps, of any other man 
known to history, that his opinions once formed, were adhered 
to, under all circumstances, without the least change or modi- 
fication. I can call to mind only a single instance of any such 
change, in the course of his long life, spent in full view of the 
public ; and that was his change of opinion upon the question 
of the constitutionality of incorporating Louisiana into the 
union. I believe he never, to the last, perceived the impolicy 
and inefficiency of his Embargo and Restrictive System — 
though it entirely failed to accomplish the purpose for which 
it was designed — though it was the principal and obvious 
cause of all the embarrassments that perplexed the govern- 
ment, and distressed the nation, during the war which followed 
it — and though it affected injuriously every part of the union, 
more or less, and, especially, was the prime cause and origin 
of that decline (as it is called) of the southern Atlantic States, 
and particularly Virginia, which our orators seem to take a 
sort of melancholy pleasure in discoursing of and exaggera- 
ting. I well remember, how foreign trade and capital took 
wing from our shores, upon the first blight of the embargo, 
as the Sorees disappear upon the first hard frost — a long, se- 
vere, and (to us) still continuing winter followed — but, when- 
ever we shall again experience our natural climate, the birds 
will be sure to return, unless, pursuing Mr. Jefferson's advice 
for abolition and deportation, we shall, with our own hands, 
wilfully destroy the food they feed on. I thought, till very 
lately, that it was known to every body, that during the revo- 
lution and for many years after, the abolition of slavery was a 
favorite topic with many of our ablest men, who entertained 
with respect, all the schemes which wisdom or ingenuity could 
suggest for accomplishing the object. Mr. Jefferson's plan 
was generally known, but never regarded as practicable : Mr. 
Wythe, to the day of his death, was for simple abolition, con- 
sidering the objection to color as founded in prejudice ; by 
degrees, all projects of the kind were abandoned as hope- 
less, by almost every body but Mr. Jefferson ; he retained his 
opinion, and now we have these projects revived. And it is 



44 

regarded as presumptuous and dictatorial in me, — after having 
examined the principle of Mr. Jefferson's plan, and stated a 
few of the arguments against its practicability, which I had 
heard in my youth, but those few (in my opinion, at least) 
quite irrefragable, — to express my conviction, that " no plan 
for the abolition of slavery and the deportation of the slaves" 
(which was Mr. Jefferson's object) " is possible." To speak 
of this as a simple annunciation of my opinion, without any 
effort to support it by reasoning, only evinces, either that the 
terms of the proposition are not understood, or that the whole 
of my letter has not been read — which is very probable. I 
shall be perfectly understood by those whom it most concerns. 
Your Jefferson (I must distinguish) thinks it a little mar- 
vellous, that I, who consider the speeches made in the house 
of delegates by the advocates of abolition, as of a danger- 
ous and incendiary character, and who recommend to the 
people to discontinue their subscription to the newspapers, 
11 in order to prevent those speeches from circulating among 
them, should be guilty of the glaring absurdity and contra- 
diction of collecting what I myself considered the most excep- 
tionable passages from those speeches, and of publishing 
them in one. paper to be sent to every quarter of the country." 
My letter was calculated for the meridian of the free white 
citizens of the commonwealth, and I am quite sure the ne- 
groes will find in it no encouragement to rebellion : on the 
contrary, the advice it contains, if attended to, will extin- 
guish every spark of rebellion, in spite of the breeze that 
may otherwise fan it into flames. And I entertain an opin- 
ion, which Jefferson will probably regard as very marvellous : 
I have no doubt, that the inflammatory matter contained in 
the speeches, had been communicated long before the pub- 
lication of my letter, to all the negroes in this town and in 
the surrounding counties. The peculiar interest they must 
take in the subject, he may be sure, makes their hearing very 
acute. It is the most combustible matter that takes fire the 
soonest : it is among combustibles, that the flame spreads the 
most rapidly and the farthest. And I entertain another opin- 
ion, which Jefferson will think yet more marvellous : that the 
speeches had not been read by the citizens of our societ}^, be- 
fore their attention was so loudly called to them. The de- 
bates in congress, as well as the debates in the house of delegates, 
were in a course of publication, at the same time; and there was 
such a cataract of speech, that the greediest speech-reader could 
not swallow all. For the rest, Jefferson will be pleased to re- 
mark, that it was not " the speeches" only (as he supposed) 
but the abolition newspapers, the editorial remarks and the 
essays, of which I counselled my fellow citizens to prevent 



45 

the dissemination, by withdrawing their subscriptions from 
the journals in which such dangerous and (in effect) incen- 
diary doctrines are published ; and that, not for the purpose 
of preventing the dissemination thereof " among them," hut 
among their slaves. It is upon these only that they can pro- 
duce any mischievous effects. And what is the security against 
the mischief, upon which we are gravely counseled to de- 
pend ? The assurance, that " the negroes have too much 
INTELLIGENCE not to know, that any effort they can make 
to throw off the yoke must be unsuccessful, and attended with 
the most dreadful consequences to themselves," — "that they 
are not able to contend without arms against the whites," — 
and that "notwithstanding all the insinuations that have been 
thrown out to the contrary," [by whom?] "the western peo- 
ple would march at a moment's warning, to any county in 
the state, to suppress an insurrection among them." Really, 
this sounds in my ears, very like downright mockery. 

I adhere, upon the fullest deliberation, to the opinion I 
before expressed, as to the propriety and necessity of prevent- 
ing the circulation of the abolition newspapers throughout 
the slave holding country, by the just and rightful means of 
declining any longer to take them: and, for the sake of great- 
er and more prompt efficiency, I hope to see the example of 
the people of Mecklenburg (with the exception of the Free- 
man) followed in other counties, and meetings held at the 
court houses, to take the subject into consideration, and to 
produce concert. No man who knows me, can believe, that 
I have any personal animosity towards the editors; for, I re- 
peat, that, I do not suspect them of designing the mischief, 
which, nevertheless, they are doing. Be their intents "wick- 
ed or charitable," the mischief is the same to us — the effect 
is the same upon the slaves — and the same means of obvia- 
ting it ought, in prudence, to be resorted to, as have been 
resorted to, and with success, to prevent the dissemination of 
the wilfully incendiary writings of The Liberator. 

Jefferson, it seems, cannot believe that I was serious, when, 
after having expressed " my shame and indignation at the 
thought" of propositions being addressed to " our fears of 
danger, either present or prospective, from our slaves," I so 
earnestly recommend to my fellow citizens to provide arms, 
and concert measures, to obviate that very danger. And the 
same remark (in substance) had been made before, by ano- 
ther commentator upon my letter, who thought he had de- 
tected me in a glaring inconsistency. I must think these 
gentlemen have read my letter in detached parcels, without 
taking the trouble to combine the whole piece in their minds. 
I first shewed, that there was, when the house of delegates 



46 

took up'this subject^ no such panic terror prevailing in the co M .. 
try as had been represented, and never any danger that couk 
possibly justify, upon the plea of necessity, the abrogation of 
the rights of slave property; and then I shewed, how the pro- 
ceedings of that house, and the inflammatory doctrines broach- 
ed there, and disseminated throughout the land, were calcu- 
lated to aggravate all the causes of danger that really existed, 
and to create and add new incentives to servile rebellion; 
which is the danger against which I warned my countrymen 
to stand on their guard. Whether the argument is convin- 
cing or not, those will judge to whom especially it was 
addressed: if they will not take the warning, they must incur 
the risk. The consistency of its several parts with each other, 
can hardly fail to be understood by any one who gives his 
mind fairly to the consideration of it. 

I imputed to a certain orator " a wilful attempt to dissuade 
the non-slave holders among us from uniting with the slave 
holders, in executing the ordinary duties of police, intended 
to keep our slaves out of mischief and in due subordination" — 
and said, I could not see a paragraph (extracted from his 
speech) in any other light. The whole passage was given ; 
the charge, the evidence, the inference, all fairly submitted 
for examination. If this be not fair play, I should be glad to 
know what is. Jefferson (without quoting the passage) pro- 
nounces this construction " forced, unnatural, and palpably 
unjust," and thinks, that I myself will, on cooler reflection, 
be willing to acknowledge that it is so. I should be willing 
to acknowledge any thing I was convinced of; but I still 
think the design I ascribed to the author, was that which the 
language naturally and fairly indicated. I am very glad, 
however, that Jefferson entertains a different opinion ; for I 
take it for granted, that he has learned the author's real de- 
sign from himself; and he may be assured, that the passage, 
in the sense in which T took it, gave me no pleasure. It seems, 
now, that the only object is to create a schism in our society, — 
a sort of civil feud, founded on the possession or non-posses- 
sion of a particular kind of property; in other words, to set 
the slave holers and non-slave holders at open variance — 
which is benevolent enough ! 

Jefferson assures us, that our western brethren have really 
no intention to vjolate our rights of property ; that the idea, 
that they wish to take away our peoperty, without our consent, 
is too preposterous and absurd to be entertained by any man ; 
that all that is wished is, to ascertain the sense of the majo- 
rity of the people, and if that be in favor of abolition, the 
minority must submit. He does, then, really think, that, if a 
majority of the people consent to abrogate the property of the 



47 

minority, they may rightfully do so, and that this would be 
taking away the property of the minority, with their own 
:'-'**sent ! There can be no difference between slave property, 
111 this respect, and any other kind ; and if the consent of a 
majority is all that is wanting to justify the abrogation of 
slave property, the consent of a majority would suffice to jus- 
tify an agrarian law, and to abrogate the rights of landed 
property. All our institutions are founded on the principle, 
that every man's private property is absolutely his own, and 
that he holds it independently of the power of the legislature, 
and of the will of the majority ; and when that principle shall 
be abandoned, republican government must be destroyed with 
it. It was the knowledge I have long had of the existence 
and progress of the opinions, which Jefferson has now openly 
avowed upon this point, that induced me to say, in my former 
letter, " I most conscientiously believed, that the day is not 
far distant, when a direct attack will be made on the very 
principle of property." 

I conclusion,! beg leave to notice the remark made in The 
Whig, upon the first appearance of my letter — that it had 
been far surpassed by a discussion of the subject by a strip- 
ling — meaning, I supposed, by the speech of Mr. Brown of 
Petersburg, in the house of delegates. If that was the mean- 
ing, I believe the remark was perfectly just ; and I earnestly 
recommend the perusal of that speech to the whole public. 

APPOMATTOX. 



s 



