





^MWWW^im^M 






DEFENCE 

OF THE 

PLANTERS ill the WEST-INDIES; 

COMPRISED IN FOUR ARGUMENTS 

I, On Comparative Humanity, 

II. On Comparative Slavery, 
III, On the African Slave Trade^ 

AND 

IV, On the Condition of Negroes in the Weft-IndieSo 



By JESSE FOOT, Surgeon. 



MOMO sum: humani nihil a me alienum puto, 

Terent. Heuto 

I am a man and feel for all mankind. 

Coleinan, 



THE SECOND EDITION. 



LONDON: 

PRINT-ED FOR J. DEBRETT, OPPOSITE BURLINGTON- 
HOUSE, PICCADILLYi 

1792. 



/ iyf'' 



k 



.710 

, F73Db 



H AV E no apology to ofFer for having gone out of the 
line of my profeflion in addrefiing thefe arguments to the 
publick, no more than I fhould for having aflifted in ex- 
tinguifhing a fire that was burning down a houfe or a tem- 
ple of worfhip. When the paffions are ftorming reafon, 
it is the duty of every focial man to endeavour at leafc to 
flop their ravages — ^od omnes tangit, ah omnibus traSlari 
debet* 

I afpire to the hope of convincing rational men only— 
I leave the palm of fpiritualifing ideotifm to modern 
pioneers in humanity — to thofe who falfely begin at the 
bottom and dig up to the furface. 

I fhould be happy to congratulate the planters that after 
the 2d of April they would be fafely landed on fhore, when 
future afliflance would be only an incumbrance ; but I do 
iiot flatter my opinion with a belief, that when thisfubje6i: 
meets with a fecond overthrow on that day, Enthufiafm 
will then let it fleep in peace. — The brains may be out, 
but the man will not die. — The planters are ftill to be 
toiTed about in the turbulent ocean of prejudice ; their 
reputations are ftill to be expofed to waves after waves- 
mountain high—- breaking their force upon them. Such 
will be the refult as long as paffion triumphs over truth, . 

The city of London have at length come to the 
point ; and after five years deliberation, have decided, on 
the 2 ift of this month, againft petitioning for the abolition 

of 



( i^ ) 

of the flave-trade. They have weighed the whole of the 
queftion, and have not been feduced into a deciiion by a 
partial and infidious reprefentation. Let this be an ex- 
ample — ht others remember that they cannot decide juflly 
without being pofTeffed cf the whole of the truth in every 
caufe that comes before them. 

We appear ailoniihed when we fee the multitude Jed 
av/"y by founds ; but we fliould remember that if founds 
vioik miracles it is always upon ignorance. The influence 
cf names is in exait proportion to the want of knowledge, 

J- F. 

DEAN-STREET, SOHO, 
MARCH 25, 1792. 



EFENCE OF THE PLANTERS 



IN THE 



WEST-INDIES. 



On Comparative HumaJilty* 

T may feem^ that he, who now takes up the 
pen to convey his fentiments upon Negroe-Sla- 
very, appears at a late hour and after the fubjed; 
has been amply difcuiTed; that he comes like a 
gleaner into the field, when the crop of grain is 
carried in, and can only add by handfuls to the 
common ftock. 

A fpedator who has watched, with fome at- 
tention, the combatants upon this fubjecl, and 
who has feen the conteil: between them eagerly 
conduded with more of padion than reafon, may 
be confidered as ripening his judgment during 
their heat of altercation, and as correcting his 
own by their mifapprehenfions. 

One is vexed to fee declaimers upon hu- 
manity abufing and degrading that noble paffion. 
Men ought firfl: of all to (liewto the world, that 
they know well how to define what is humanity ^ 

B before 



z On Comparative Humanity, 

before they begin to make a diftributlon of it, to 
convince the world — that their reafon is awake 
to the purpofes of it — that they pofTefs the a(5tual 
paflion, and not its counterfeit — and that when 
they do beftow it, it is done under the difcretion 
of reafon. 

I (liall firft of all define what humanity is, and 
then appropriate a diftribution of it as it ought 
for comforting adive indufhry and paiflive exift- 
ence. 

Humanity is a pafiion infufed into our firft 
nature: it is a native ingredient in the compo- 
fttion of man ; it is one of mayiy more focial vir- 
tues : it is that pafiion which reafon preferves 
with the firidefl caution, and diftributes with the 
cxacleft juftice — that paffion which fhould not be 
laviilied indifcriminately, and which is leafl 
likely to be fo when befl underftood. 

How a man in a flate of nature would difpofe 
of his humanity, it is naturally to be conceived. 
He would apply this focial pafTion in adiredlion 
to his own happinefs — -for obtaining additional 
comfort in his family, for enlarging his relative 
happinefs with his neighbour, for procuring 
good will to the right and the left of his own 
threfliold, and for making his own home a trea- 
fure of fehcity, fecured from annoyance, becaufe 
it was prote6led by innocence. 

This would be the full extent of humanity in 
a ftate of nature* 

But 



On Comparaiive Humanity , 3 

But in that flate which is called civilifation, 
whether properly or not I will not now fay, hu- 
manity is to be confidered in many various ways. 
Where fome poffefs abundant wealth, and 
others are mod miferably poor — where fome muft 
dig that ore which brightens in the purfes of 
others— where fome mud cultivate that foil for 
others who take away the produce — where fome 
muft weave the cloth for others to wear upon 
their backs — where fome mull be common fol- 
diers, and ad under the diredion of the paffions 
of others — and where fome mufl be failors, and 
muft fubmit to be torn from their families, to be 
dragged lika criminals aw^y from their homes, 
and perhaps never again to be reftored — Whilft 
thefe are necejfary gradations in a cmlifed Jociety^ 
and whild it is found necejfary that thefe various 
gradations in the conditions of men fhall exift, 
fo long will it be necejfary for that fociety to con- 
fider how to apply its humanity — not with a 
partial hand, nor with an unnatural mpulje, but 
with a general view^ to the conditions of the whole. 
If I, therefore, fpoke of a private man, he 
will, if he obeys the impulfe of nature, com- 
mence his career of humanity with his relatives 
and his neighbours— -if I fpoke of the public, 
they ought, when they commence their career of 
humanity, to bellow it with an even hand, to 
pour it through every channel where the cries of 
it mofl imr/iediately, dlre^ly^ and loudly alTail their 

cars and hearts. 

B a Under 



4 0^ Comparatrce Humanity 4 

Under the prefent cifcumftances of this coun- 
try, no one will be io bold as to fay that we ean 
difpenfe with the induftry of the miner, the col- 
lier, the ploughman, and the weaver, or with the 
pofi: of the foldier or failor. To have it in our 
power to meliorate their conditions, preferve 
their health, and by ftrid attention exemplarily 
habituate them to fobriety and induftry, is 
one thing — to have for ever neglected it^ is an- 
other. 

All that humanity can do, for foftening the 
hard conditions of thofe in adive fociety, is to 
revv'ard induftry and correal iicentioufnefs — to 
block up every avenue that leads to depravity — 
to put it out of the power of a labourer to con- 
fume his time wiien he is able to employ it — 
and to allow no temptation for a wafte of the 
wages of induftry in the finks of intoxication. 

The eiFedis of intoxication, and more efpe- 
ciallyby fpirituous liquors^ tend to enervate the 
frame, ftarve the family, depreciate its children, 
lead on the taker to the perpetration of horrid 
crimes, and caft him at length into a Jolitary 
dungeon. 

If I favv the publick career of humanity com- 
mencing; with thefe confiderations, I fhould be 
affured that as it rcfers-to a6live fociety, the pur- 
pofe was unqueftionable, and that the paffion 
which moved the judgment was not only iincere 
biitjuft. 

But 



On Comparative Humanity » ^ 

But when 1 fee thefe conditions of men neg- 
kdled — conditions which muft be feen, but dif- 
regarded — which obtrude upon ourfenies at home 
and abroad — in all our paths, ac our own doors, 
in the open ftreets, and in all the public roads-— 
when I fee a new dungeon erediing in every 
county, and the arc of mafonry ftrained for the 
inclufion of human wretchednefs — when I fee 
dram-fhops increafing becaufe the revenue is 
increafed by it — when I fee the very thief- 
takers applying there to feize their deluded vic- 
tims — when I fee the keepers of thofe fliops 
diftributing the poifon without a pang, and gree- 
dily griping the mifapplied fractions of induftry 
to pay the revenue office — when I fee that thefe 
pradices pafs uncorrected, and that the country 
is reduced to the neceflity of railing a revenue 
for the fupport of its credit by thefe defperate 
means — I look with" indignity on that falfe hu- 
manity which leads men in fearch after the con- 
'dition of negroes-, far beyond the reach of their 
eyes and the genuine impulfes of their hearts, 
whilft fuch ftriking temptations for the pradice 
of the politive pafTion obtrude upon their reafon 
on every fide they turn. 

Is it not more humane to prevent crimes than 
to punifli them ? and is there a man who refleds, 
and who does not know that immorality, ex- 
treme poverty, and the mofi: defperate ads, are 
promoted by, if not founded upon, an eafy accefs 

t9 



6 On Comparative Humanity, 

to fpirituous liquors ? Who does not knov/ 
that the way is made eafy in defiance of hu- 
manity, merely to increafe the revenue ? Who 
does not know that the very fyftem is founded ; 
in inhumanity ? that it rends the fecial bands 
into pieces ? totally counterads the operations 
of morality ? and that the Chriftian religion lofes 
all its influence over a mind deadened to every 
virtuous imprelTion, difeafed beyond reforma- 
tion j — that it is in the eftablifliment of no efFed:^ 
and that the occupation is a mere dead letter ? 

The miftake of the prefent age is, that men 
enquire into the eiFeds of crimes, and neglect 
the caufes. . 

There can be but two caufes afligned for the 
miferable condition of the lowed clafs of people 
in this country ; either there is not work enough 
for them, or they mifapply the earnings of their 
labour. Mod of their mifery is derived from 
their licentioufnefs, and no attempts are made 
by the legiflature for the prevention of it. 

Nor has the attention of private charaders^ 
who have embarked in the noble caufe of hu- 
manity, been engaged to the prevention of 
crimes:— ?2f?/ to point out the means v/hereby 
thofe devoted victims which are found in pri- 
{ovismay he prevented from coming to that end — not 
to turn them from the path that leads to the 
folitary cell— but how they are to be accommodated 
on their arrival there. 

4 Had 



On Comparative Humanity i^ ^ 

Had Mr. Howard confined his enquiry to 
that which is within the abihty of one private 
man, and had his paffion of humanity been re- 
gulated by the controul of reafon, and not by 
enthufiafm amounting to Quixotifm, he might 
have traced the progrefs of depravity from the 
bud, and have been enabled to point out thofe 
means of prevention which are more effential 
a<fts of humanity than the univerfal ftudy of 
prifons. 

What are the conditions of other focieties to 
us, if that fociety we live in be fo wretched and 
depraved, as to call loudly for our dire6l atten- 
tion? Are we not compelled by the force of 
reafon to corred the defperate conditions of 
thofe in our own ft ate ^ and before our own nojes^ 
before we are authorifed in confcience to exa- 
mine farther off?— to clear our own prifons — 
to thin our own v/orkhoufes — to clothe our own 
beggars— to fee that our own induftrious fhall 
not perifh from want or licentioufnefs, and to 
watch with a Heady eye their firfl: attempts to 
depravity P—to check the growing evil — to lock 
up the doors of dram-(hops — to diftinguiOi the 
induftrious from the idle — to follow up di{^ 
carded fervants and difbanded foldiers and 
failors— to enquire into the caufe of empty- 
churches ? 

Afcertaining thecharaders of thefufpicious— ' 
providing employ for thofe who wdll work- 
corn- 



f On Comparative Humanity. 

compelling thofe v>rho otherwife would not— and 
pnnifhing quickly thofe who have offended— is 
of more importance, in the fcale of humanity, 
than all the plans of jails in England, and 
fchemes againO: ilavery in the W. Indies, that 
enthuiiafm for one or the other ever fuggefted. 
Humanity diftributed by an enthufiaft will 
ever be mifapplied. Reafon mufh have a con- 
troul over the paffion of humanity. The mind 
muft be firm and the conftitution found. There 
mud be mens Jana in corpore fano. He who dif- 
pofes of his humanity under the influence of 
dotage or ftrong affedtion will pervert the paf- 
lion, becaufe it was not regulated by judgment. 
If it be thus difpofed by will, to be diftributed 
after death, as it very frequently is towards pub- 
lick endowments, relatives then fufFer by the 
iriifapplication. The cafe of the late Mr. Ruf- 
fell, who, under this difeafed influence, left his 
all to endowments, and his kindred to flarve, 
will exemplify what I mean. And if it be thus 
difpofed in the lifetime of the giver, he will 
fuffer by the mifappHcation. It is very imma- 
terial to my argument, whether the ftory be 
real or fancied; but the immortal bard has 
brought the fare of Kins; Lear, who o;ave his 
all, fo home to our bofoms— has fo realifed the 
mifapplication of humanity — that it would be 
dotage indeed not to feel how diredly it is 
within the pale of nature* 

An 



On Comparative Humanity: 9 

An Enthujtafi becomes fo heated in the pur* 
fuit of his objed, as to exceed the limitation of 
common reafon and plain nnderftanding, Hii* 
manity (lands in need of no fuch botched. It is 
found to be of the moil pofitive nature in a man 
with a cool head and common generoiity — in his 
greatell vigour of mind— in the prime of his life— 
and when he holds an intercourfe with fociety. 

It is only a part of the charafter of a good 
man. — It is that part which he can (lill be be- 
ftovving and flill retain enough — It is that foun- 
tain from the heart which can -never be ex- 
haufted — It is that which, when difFufed, creates 
a reverence for the giver, and excites an example 
which others can follow — It is a difcharge of duty 
as a focial being, in a difcreet manner. Whereas 
by adopting this paffion in exclufion of all others 
— by applying it to one objed, and negleding 
every other — by exceeding that which is beyond 
the reach or ability of the reft in fociety, the end 
cannot be obtained, becaufe one alone is not ade- 
quate to it, and the chafe is given up becaufe 
mere cannot follow the Enthufiafi in it. 

It muft be remembered that the enquiry of 
Mr. Howard into the flate of prifons, and the 
inquiry of Mr. Wilberforce into the ftate of 
negroe Haves, were both of them topicks agi- 
tated at one and the fame time. Whilft Mr. 
Howard was laying down the plan for immuring 
prifoners in folitary dungeons in order to reform 

C thm. 



lo , On Comparative Humanity, 

them, Mr. Wilberforce was knocking off the 
imaginary chains from the negroes in the We^ 
Indies — counting the lafhes of the cart-whip 
upon their backs — and taking them out of the 
flocks, which is their only place of confinement, 
in order to reform their Jevere tajk-mafiers* 

I have watched thefe proceedings which have 
attra6led popularity, and have fmiled with con- 
tempt at the abfurdity of them. 

Why had not Mr. Wilberforce, whilft Mr. 
Howard was contriving new accommodations for 
prifoners—whilft every county was employing 
architedis for new plans and new elevations of 
prifon-houfes — ^moved in the Houfe of Commons 
for an enquiry into the caufes which produced fo 
dreadful a neceffity ? Why have not the obfequi- 
CUB chartered boroughs, and the manufadluring 
towns, charged their Members with petitions upon 
thefe caufes as well as that upon the Slave Trade ? 
Have they omitted to do fo becaufe they knew of 
thofe evils which cxifled in the Wefi Indies, but 
were ignorant of any exifting in England ? 

I do not mean to appeal to the pafiions, but to 
the common fenfe of my countrymen ; and I do 
fay, that neither the dungeon. Botany Bay, or the 
gallows, will avail any thing in reforming the 
corrupted morals of the age. The time (as fome 
fay) is now com.e when money is profufely plen- 
ty — when taxes are to be taken off— and when the 
publick funds are as high as they were ever 

known 



On Comparative Humanity, ii 

known to have been. Is not this a fitting time 
then for providing individual comforts — for 
checking immoraHty — for inculcating fobriety 
and induftry — and for making the lowefh clafs of 
people virtuoully happy ? 

Human nature is a flave to habit. Reforma- 
tion can only advance by convincing the under- 
fhanding of the fuperior benefits which will be 
the refult of it : and the underftanding muft be 
in a (late of fobriety for receiving the impreilion 
with any intention .of effed. Prevention of 
drunkennefs is almoft the firfh and the only 
neceflary ftep. The fever excited upon the brain 
by inebriety muftfirfl: fubfide, before reafon will 
be liftened to ; and yet (notwithftanding we are 
faid to be in a flouriihing ftate), we are to be 
told that the revenue would fufFer, if the ufe of 
fpirituous liquors were forbidden. 

The morality of the lower clafs of people is their 
bed fecurity for order and decency. Whoever 
tempts them on that point, whether it be an in- 
dividual or any colledlive body of men^ either 
as legiflators or any other, are as highly criminal 
as thofe they thus vitiate. 

Methinks it would be a curious predicament to 
view the Commons of England in—if that — whillt 
the Minifler is haranguing on the profperousftate 
of the finances, and whilft the Surplus of the 
Revenue is dwelt upon with more than ordinary 
triumph— they (hould be fo hardy in the fame 

C a breath 



I a On Ccmyarative Humanity, 

breath to fay that the revenue drawn from the 
fale of fpirits was now pofitively neceflary for the 
fupport of the ftate— and that at leaft two thou- 
fand houfes in the metropolis fhould be neceffarily 
kept open for deahng out indifcriminately the 
poifon to men, women, and children. Who 
can refied upon this without horror, knowing at 
the fame time, as we do, that the pradice is 
encoui-aged becaufe of the fupport it yields to 
the date ? If this be not the proftitution of mo- 
rahty and humanity brought home to our hearts, 
I cannot fee it in Africor, in Afta, or in America: 
there is no fuch temptation — it is all a vifion — • 
there is no neceffity for a reform any where. 

Is fuch the pradice of humanity, which is to 
be diffufed by example ? To exped reforms 
from thofe provided for in ofSce, I know is to 
look for a thing where it cannot be found. But 
I wonder how the nation at larg-e can behold in 
filence, and without emotions that proclaim their 
aftonidiment, the tredions of larger jails — the 
beggars in the ftreets— the open debaucheries-^ 
the loofe language of drunkards alTailingthe ears 
of virtue — the fwarms of wretches coniigned to 
workhoufes, or pining in want, fecludedin garrets 
—-and moreover than all this, the increafe of 
parochial taxes year after year. Such things 
are : and yet we are to be told that we are con- 
fcientioufly in a ftate for enquiring into the mi- 
fery of thofe under the care and protcdion of 
Qthen^ 

If 



^ On Comparative Humanity^ 13. 

'If Mr. Burke fays that the age of chivalry is 
gone, I fay that the age of humanity is gone. 
To relieve the wants of our fellow citizens is a 
duty of government ; the conftitution by which 
it is upheld has commanded it : to extend hu- 
manity beyond that which duty has prefcribed 
is optional. 

If the combined talents of eminent men had 
been employed in inveftigating the condition 
of human mifery at home which prevails at this 
time, and had given vigour in checking the 
immoralities of the loweft clafs of people by the 
force of their examples, emanations of humanity 
would have then been juftly excited and naturally 
difFufed, becaufe the impulfe would have accorded 
with reafon. The fpirit of enquiry would have 
gone forth — vice would be checked before it be 
too far gone — and theinduftrious indiftrefs would 
be familiarly diftinguifhed from the idle and 
abandoned : but the workhoufe, that common 
fink, receives all withoutdiilindion, except thofe 
who are imprifoned or configned to a fate be- 
yond redemption. 

Inftead of fuch inveftigations which prefled 
hard upon us as a duty, we have all along been di^ 
verted from them by remoter topicks— by the 
abolition of the flave-trade— .and the ilavery of 
Frenchmen. 

Our very publick hofpitals, in this age of af- 
fefted humanity, would have been bankrupted. 



14 On Comparative Humanity, 

and the wards fhut up, if the contributions had 
Dot been increafed by mufical meetings. It 
was not the voluntary tribute of charity, arifing 
from the impulfe of the heart immediately ; it was 
not the hand of humanity that gave the boon 
dire5fly ; but it was charmed from the purfe by 
the effed of mufick on the ears, by that fame 
paiTage that brains are extracted in preparing 
Egyptian mummies. 

St. George's and the Middiefex hofpitals were 
erected by voluntary contributions before the 
new buildings in Mary bone were begun -, and not- 
withftanding the v/onderful increafe there of the 
richeft inhabitants^ not a wing has been added 
to either— for the contributions have failed ! 

The city charities fiourifli. Honefh induftry, 
rewarded by opulence, invigorates the mind. 
Many there now in affluence, fprung from poor 
parents— they know where diftrefs pinches, and 
nature points out the remedy. London has not 

preiTed on the Houfe of Commons for abohfli- 

J- 

ing the ilave trade— London looks to the pref- 
fing objeds of humanity nearer home — it peti- 
tioned for the abolition of the (hop-tax, and 
made its Members vote as they ought. 

Taxes impofed beyond that point which can 
be borne, is the greateft fiavery that can be in- 
fii6led, I appeal to every colledor of taxes, 
whether he can imagine real diftrefs exift- 
ing in a greater degree, than that he fees 
3 through-' 



On Comparative Humanity* 1 5 

throughout this metropolis ? Do not let us lay 
the flattering undlion to the bread, and conclude 
that all are content who do not murmur, De- 
fpair has its fits, and when it can only rave ia 
vain it will rather mope in filence. 

If I heard, that, now we are at peace, a confi- 
deration of the prefent ftate of the fubjeds who 
are at a time of life for employments of active 
induftry was to be diredly gone into by Parlia- 
ment — if I heard that it was their determination 
to abolilh every tax which tended to encourage 
fuch practices as depraved the human mind — if 
I heard that the idle were obliged to work, and 
that their wages could not be fpent in intoxica- 
tion — if I heard that the conditions of the poor 
were ferioufly confidered, and that immorality 
and profanenefs no longer defiled our ftreets — > 
if I found that we had more humanity than 
would effect thefe reforms at home — I would 
vote for bellowing the furplus without hefitation 
on any other fubjeds in the world that claimed it 
from their fuiferings. But let us commence the 
duties belonging to citizens of the world after 
we have difcharged the more relative duties ex- 
adedfromus to the poor of our own country. This 
would be adting upon a warrantable fyftem, and 
would leave no doubt upon the minds of men 
that the motive fprung from fofitive humanity. 

The Minifter, who fays that by the abolition 
of fpirituous liquors fo much revenue would be 

loft 



1 5 On Comparative Humanityl 

loft to the ftate, has but little infight into thd 
operation of that poifon upon the conflitution. 
It does not produce a fimilar intoxication to 
malt liquors ; nor is the habit of drinking fpirits 
confined to the feafon of focial enjoyment : it 
excites the mofh furious paflions — inflames the 
brain — leads men on to riot — and often to the 
perpetration of murder. 

The afl of Captain Wiljon is as worthy of re- 
cord as the continence of a Scipo or the virtue 
of a Caio ; who, when his fhip was loft on thfe 
Felew JJlandSy induced his crew to ftave the 
calks of fpirituous liquors, left they fhould change 
the ftate of prefling danger into irrevocable de- 
fpair, and quarrel with the natives, when they 
knew not what they did. 

The money which is con fumed by this infa- 
mous pradice of drinking fpirits would be laid 
out in comfortable commodities that are already 
taxed; and although the revenue from fpirituous 
liquors would be funk, that from other commo- 
dities would be increafed, more labour would be 
applied to the welfare of the ftate, and the poor 
rates would be fenfibly reduced. This is the 
beft argument that can be offered, and it is that 
which will find the readieft way to the heart of 
a Minifter. Tell him that the revenue will not 
fuffer, but be increafed ; and although he might 
not yield to a reform from the motive of hu- 
manity. 



On Comparative Humanity, i jf 

manity, yet he will more likely from that of in- 
tereft. 

I do alTert that there is no condition, no gra^ 
dation of men in this country, that may not be 
made comfortable and taken from the brink of 
defpair, provided the attention of thofe whofe 
duty it is, be engaged to it. 

Every miferable objed that prefents itfelf 
fliould have at lead an hearing, and every difr 
trefs fliould be invelHgated -, then it v/ould be 
apparent vvhedier thofe who fall — fall from in^ 
evitable misfortune or from vicious propenfities. 
This is that humanity which we are moil pref- 
fingly called upon to difcharge ; and when we 
have done fo much, we may with clean hands 
and light hearts enquire into remoter conditions. 
Have the Members of the Houfe of Commons, 
who lifliened with fo much attention to the abo- 
lition of the fiave-trade, and who have (hewed 
fuch a promptitude at declaiming upon the doubt- 
ful evidence of miferies unfeen, ripened their 
humanity for meliorating the poficive fafFerings 
of thofe objsds evident to our fenies ? Have they 
reiieded upon the comparative call for their hu- 
manity at home with that which Mr. Wilber- 
force exads for Africans ? or are they befotted 
by the necromantick power of African magiciam^ 
and cannot break the fpell ? 

Beiides the application of humanity to thofe 
In a condition for adive induHry at home, there 

D is 



I S On Comparative Humanity, 

is an humanity due to thofe who are in a (late onfy 
of. paiTive exiftence — to thofe who have pafled 
the age for labour, and to thofe who have not as 
yet arrived to the age for labour. 

No ftate can fiourilli without population; and 
I will take it upon myfelf to prove that there is 
no ftate, in no part of the globe, where the care of 
population is more negleded than in this country^ 
Medical aiiiilance and medical influence with 
thofe in the habit of drinking fpirits is all out of 
the queftion. I will appeal to medical men for 
an anfwer to thefe fa6ls— Vv^hether thoufands of 
children do not periQi for want of care — whe- 
ther the mothers who drink fpirits do not deftroy 
their children who fuck them — whether thofe 
who furvive be not pitiable objedls — and whe- 
ther many do not now fall a facrifice to the 
Imall-pox which could be faved ? 

When Mr. Wilberforce again commences his 
inquiries into the fLateof negroes upon the ccaft 
of Africa, along the middle paiTage, and in the 
Weft- Indies—when he is a2;ain m.oved bv the 
yearning of humanity— I invite him, as a relief 
to thofe fcenes abroad, to turn his attention to 
the comparative (late of wretch ednefs at home ; 
let him call before a Committee of the Houfe of 
Commons fome of the miferable objeds of this 

country let thefe fpeak for thcQifelves — let him 

be but half as inquihtive in the inveitigation of 
their conditions as he has been in that of the ne- 
groes. 



On Comparative Humanity. i^ 

groes, and then go to his Jufper with what appe- 
tite be may. 

If Mr. Burke, who pleads with all the fire of 
Demofthenes for kingly rights, and who fupports 
the crown with an uplifted arm—if Mr. Payne, 
who urges the rights of man with the nervous 
mind ofLycurgus, and tramples the crown un- 
der his feet— if they had employed their pens on 
the fide of poiitive humanity, and had left kings 
to defend themfelves, by their own arguments— 
by the ultima ratio regum—hj the thunder of their 
cannon— they would have both been feen in a 
nobler caufe. 

If Mr. Fox and Mr. Burke had but employed 
half the force of their powers of oratory on this 
theme that they cohfumed on the ftate of French- 
men, they would to this day have been mutual 
friendsj and -gone down to poderity with the 
fame blefTins; from the wretched in England 
tipon both. 

As to Mr. Pltt~~I have no hope in him. He 
who deftroved fmuo-crhno; for the fake of ths 
revenue alone, and radically encouraged fpiritu« 
ous liquors by granting more favourable li- 
cences—he who could foment a conteft fof 
Weftminlter, and fupport an unconftitutional 
fcruiiny for more than twelve m.onths— he v/ho 
could thus decifively promote inordinate tu- 
mults and intoxication— it would be vaia to 
fearch for, in any corner of his heart, a fmgle feed 

D 2 of 



2o On Comfarailvi Humanity. 

of humanity. But if the fpirit of humanity be 
not dead, but only Numbering — if it can be 
roufed at the clamorous appeal of neceflity, its 
cries (hall be heard : that Minifter fhali be told 
of the beggarly ftate of the wretched in a tone as 
intelligible as that he pradifed before he was 
Minifter^ and before he was Member for Cam- 
bridge, when he harangued at the Revolution So- 
ciety for parliamentary reforms, whidi now, alas^ 
^re difcuifed by him no more ! 

A man in oiiice and out of office is like a 
player in comedy and tragedy. In office he 
afTumes a cheerful countenance, charadlerifes 
pleafant comedy, promifes, flatters, and careffes 
his fuitors — out of office, he rants, threatens, and 
talks of vice and corruption, ths ax, the block, 
and the Tower. Reformation will never come 
from a Miniflier — come when it will, it will be 
from the people. 

1 hope there is not one who thinks becaufc 
money is plenty-^-the funds are high and the 
lottery wheel goes round — that the poor are the 
better for it, or their vices abated. If additional- 
wealth .operated in any manner upon the vicious, 
it would be by increaiino; their enormities-— 
Gold reforms not the corrupted heart. 

The labourer who has confumed his firength^ 
by adive toil, and can no longer earn his bready 
will not be benefited by the increafed wealth of 
another— if he can compound with the iron heart 



On Comparative Humanity, it 

of an overfeer, and preferve his cot and his 
blanket whilft he receives his pittance from the 
parifh, the fummit of his expedration is perfed. 

The pauper that is pafTed from London to 
Cornwall, or Northumberland, may finifli his 
journey of life upon the road, without the (hel- 
ter of any thing better than a barn — Will he be 
benefited by the riches that he fees in his jour- 
ney, by the difplay of fmooth lawns, grand man- 
iions, and profperous towns ? 

Will Mr. Wilberforce fay that thefe confidera- 
tions do not fpeak home to the human heart 
more than the condition of negroes ? — ^If not, I 
will prefent him with a catalogue of human dif- 
trefs politively exifting in this land of freedom, 
and r will invite him to compare the (late of 
thoufands in this country with that of the negroes 
in the W-eft- Indies. 

What is a foldier but a Have ? Does any one 
pretend to fay that his ftate of flavery is not ne- 
celfary ? that in the chain of fociety he does not 
form a link ? But yet he is a ilave, becaufe he is 
bound to certain duties, and cannot with any 
change of mind extricate himfelf from bondage* 
As lonsi; as he is content and does his duty, he 
feels not the galling of the yoke j but as foon as 
he is rebellious, he is whipped, placed upon 
(pikes, chained, imprifoned, and fom.etimes ihot. 
Perhaps he was enlifted under the influence of 
intoxication — pei'haps under that of defperation — 

perhaps 



a On Comparative Humanity i 

perhaps he is ordered abroad, away from his' 
wife and family— will the four- pence a day ferve 
him if he flay at home, or provide for his wife 
and children in his ab fence ? And if uader this 
pretence he aiks for his freedom, is it granted ? 

If it be faid that the Joldiers puniQiment is 
not more fevere than that of the mgroe, I do' 
contradid it : the foldier often lingers under re- 
peated flagellations ; and an inilance has lately 
occurred of one who put an end to his mifery by 
fuicide who was to have undergone this correc- 
tion the third time. 

Will any man fay that the Weft- India planter 
is not as much interefted in humanity for his 
Have as the commander of a regiment for his ? 
Let Mr. Wiiberforce, by anfwering the queftion^ 
fill up the blank. 

Commerce and an infular fituation invite fail- 
ors. They go their voyages with the fongs by 
heart that chaunt the joys at their return. Ac 
.Deal, or fometimes before they defcry the white 
cliffs that proclaim the land of promifed hope, 
they are tied and bound and conligned to the 
difcipline of a man of war. It is vain that we 
are told they are better off; no one can believe it ; 
it cannot be fo, or they would go without com- 
puliion ; and it is that very compulfion v^^hieh i-5 
another word for llavery : ilaves they are as long 
as the war lafts, or their flrength holds out. ' 
Greenwich Hofpital receives not a thoiifandib 

part 



On Comparative Humanity. 23 

part of them. The endearments of life, which 
are love and affedion, by that time are all be- 
.come extind : but this, in a land of freedom^ 
forms a necejjary link in the chain of fociety. 

I fay nothing of kidnapping to the Eajl- Indies — 
I have been only told that Juch a thing is. But the 
flocks of mutilated beggars infailor's habits that 
haunt the flreets and public roads, prove what 
the humanity of government is towards them 
when their fervices are pad. Ay, fays Mr. Wil- 
berforce, the laws proted: the Engliiliman againft 
the kidnapper ; fo fay 1 ; bui he who was kid- 
napped muft firft be reftored : the laws alfo in 
Xhe Weft- Indies protect the negroes. 

The bulinefs of an Adminiftration feems to be- 
nothing more than to lay on taxes and extradt 
them from the people. If protediion be afked, 
if poverty appeal, the tax-gatherer becomes the 
judge : the poor inhabitant who is not provided 
to pay his tax upon the third call, is threatened 
with a fummary procefs ; and the money which 
he fcrapes together perhaps to his lafl; (hilling, 
is a part of that furplus which is made up for tKe 
jubilee day of finance. But this is alfo a necejjary 
link in the chain of fociety. All cannot climb 
to the fummit of the hill of fortune ; fome tire in 
the afcentj fome dare not the attem.pt, fome fall 
down in the purfuit, and are trampled to death. 
• The great' burthen of tax-es, and the wide dif- 
jindion betv/ixt the rich and the poor, oblige 

the 



24 0^ Comparative Humanity. 

the latter to be llaviQi to the former. There are 
max^y objedls in inclement feafons without an 
hovel and v/ith fcarcely any covering, that tempt 
humanity in the road from 7'ork to London — 
Thefe might be feen and their miferies might be 
told from their own mouths, if Mr. VV^ilberforce 
beftovved the fame portion of humanity towards 
them that he has to the taiesof adifcarded over- 
feer from the Weft-Indies. 

Will Mr. Wilberforce, and thofe who join iiTuc 
with him in the caafe of the abolition of the Slave- 
Trade, confent to examine as many witnelTes who 
are competent to inform a Committee of the vices 
^nd the miferies of the lowefl: clafs of people at 
home — print the Reports-— and make the compa- 
rlfon fairly v/ith thofe of the flaves in the Weil* 
Indies— not only as to poiitive conditions of 
diilrefs, but alfo to numbers— -not only fuch con- 
ditions as are necejfary for making the pubhc 
wheel go round— but fuch as are the refult of 
wanton inattention, cruelty, and inhumanity ? 
Will they enquire into the number of dram-fbops, 
and afcertain the clafs of people who frequent 
therii ? will they do the fame vv'ith the pubHck^ 
houfcs ? will they fearch out the haunts of 
thieves that are not taken ? will they afcertain 
the caufe and the haunts of beggars ? will rhey 
enquire into the caufe of increafe of the parochial 
taxes, and revife the poor laws? will they obtain 
reports from the manufacturing towns of the 
6 prefent 



On Comparative Humanity, 25 

prefent ftate of the weavers, and from Cornwall 
and Durham of that of the miners and colHers ? 
will they examine into the cafes of prifoners 
confined for debt, and dlftinguifh guilt from 
misfortune ? will they relieve the miferable ftate 
of thoufands that cannot dig, but are ajhamed to 
leg F will they fully convince the world that 
fome do not fink from pofitive want-^that fome 
do not die of the fmall pox who might have been 
preferved ? will they examine into the caufe of 
the prefent rage for new prifons, and will they 
prove to us that thefe new walls are unnecefTary ? 
will they ftop the hands of the mafon, turn the 
forged irons into ploughfliares, and pay oif a 
part of the national debt by favings in the ex- 
pences of Botany Bay f 

When thefe reforms are proved to be necef- 
fary, and when they are carried into efFeft, thq 
eye of hum.anity may penetrate and difcover de- 
fedis in remoter regions, and pour forth the heal- 
ing balm of comfort to relieve them, The riling 
fun, which we all adore becaufe of its univerfal 
benignity — firft gladdens the hills neareft to the 
horizon — it is afterwards that its rays are ex- 
tended to remoter parts. Vv^e may defcend to 
the rank of the wretched in England^ but cannot 
to that in Jlfrica, 

In the comparative operations upon the human, 
mind, tragedies which reprefent domeftic diftrefs 
engage the attention more than thofe of the fates 

E of 



26 0?i Comparative Humanity. . 

of tyrants or deftruAion of empires — fcenes are 
more moving, as reprefenting to the auditor what 
he v/ould himfeif feel, if he were to do or to fuf* 
fer what is there feigned to be fufFered or to be 
done. The reflexion which ftrikes home to the 
heart is that they are conditions to which ourfehes 
may be expofed — we lament the pofiibiliry as a 
mother w^eeps over the babe when fhe remem-» 
bers that death may take it from_ her. 




( 27 ) 



On Comparative Slavery, 



.AVING fomewhat enlarged my fentiments 
upon humanity, and expanded the purpofes of 
it that it may be feen more clearly and difcin- 
guifhed more readily from that which is refem- 
bling to humanity — but is only the counterfeit ; I 
fhall proceed upon the fame fyftem in imparting 
my fentiments upon Com.parative Slavery;. 

There are many more pofi.tive conditions of 
Jlavery than that of one man being the property 
of another, and being fubje6t to his will and do- 
minion : and if fuch politive conditions be necef" 
Jary in every alTociation of men, both under a 
civilifed government as ftates but little removed 
from that of nature — if various ranks and orders 
of men be necejjary^ that the political wheel may 
go round, that the purpofes of focial life be rnore 
completely fulfilled— if it be pofitively accord- 
ing with the natural order of things — why then 
there cannot be a doubt remaining but that, the 
only duty is to make all occupations and airtondltions 
of men as comfortable as the nature of their fiatio /is 
will admit. 

This pofition ought either to be received as 
a general maxim, or not at all — either as an in- 
cumbent duty which the dependant in every ftate 
may claim at the hands of their fuperiors, or not 

E 2 at 



2 8 On Corn-par atlve Slavery, 

at all. For if it be not a right, but only an op- 
tional caprice, the impreffion of it would be {o 
light that the tint could not be traced, and it 
would be better for the dependant clafs to be left 
to fhruggle againfh their own fafferings than to 
depend upon any fuch precarious bounty y and 
in the language of the Poet at once to be told — 

Why let the llriicken deer go weep 

The hart ur.galled play — 

For fome mufl: watch, whlhl fome mufl: fleep : — 

80 runs the world away ! , 

The pofitive wan^s of life in fome climates are 
very few indeed ; and when thefe are gratified 
with the mind at eafe, it is very immaterial to- 
wards human happinefs into whofe hands the 
furplus may fall. 

Whether a negro JIave or a Ruffian ^^'y^ — 
a Pruffian foldier or an Anfpacher — an Englifli 
foldier or a fiilor — a peafant or a collier — pro- 
vided their pofitive wants be fupplied and they 
chearfully purfue their occupations, it would be 
vain in reformation to grant them more. 

For if men thus conditioned could not look 
up with chearfui faces to the flations of their 
fuperiors, a.nd if it were not certain that true 
happinefs was not confined to redundant wealth 
and power, the proportion of human wretched- 
nefs would be greatly extended indeed ; — it 
would be a difeafe of the mind which no reform 

7 could 



.On Comparative Slavery. 29 

could cure, becaufe ail cannot poflefs wealth and 
dominion : and where we no^^^ find willing obe- 
dience, we fhould then fee nothing but envy, 
rancour, and revenge. 

If he be only happy who is moil free, the 
peafant in England is the happieft. But why 
then does he become a fqldier and Tifiave ? — be- 
caufe he valued not that freedom, and was not 
content. Why, when he is a foldier, does he 
willi to become a peafant — to have reftored to 
him again his former condition and his furren^ 
dered privilege .? — Not at the time perhaps that 
he was enlifled — not as long as the paffion for 
the parade, the drum and the iife, charms 
him — but when he fickens at thefe — it is then, 
and not till tben^th^t he finds himfelf a politive 
Jlave, 

A peafant has the lightefl: burthen of cares, 
and ftands firm upon t*hat level in life which 
will not admit of fudden and violent fhocks 
from fortune. 

If the peafant becomes miferable— if he at 
any time of life approaches to that ftate which 
is as bad as poiitivey7^'z;^ry — ^there cannot be any 
difhculty in affigning the caufe for it, becaufe 
all the poffible ones are but few. Either his 
fcene of content was difliurbed by war or im- > 
morality when in the prime of his life, or his 
daily hard toil is ever hardly rewarded. 

If 



3a On Comparative Slavery^ 

If he marry, (and moil of the peafants do), 
he finds that his wages will not fupport himfelf 
and his increafing family. It is then that he 
feels himfelf 2.jlave in another fenfe — dijlavem 
a comparative degree worfe than a negro pof- 
feffed of the fame will, the fame induftry, and 
the fame number of children. 

The peafant muft divide and fubdivide his 
fhilling. His very farthings will admit of frac- 
tions. His cot is rented— his firing muft be 
purchafed — his ficknefs muft be fupported at his 
own expence — his cloathing for himfelf and fa-^ 
mily muft be bought by himfelf. But if he 
cannot by osconomy procure thefe pofitive ne- 
ceiTaries, he perhaps then will apply to his 
parilh. The new coat that he purchafed for the 
wedding day, will be the laft that he can ever 
buy ! Juft as much will be apportioned out to 
him from his parifti as will keep his body and 
foul together.' — If he cannot do the work of an 
able labourer, his pay is diminifhed, and th€ 
parilh confiders that in their bounty. 

It is necelTary, for the fake of my comparifon, 
to take notice— that the peafant is alfo amenable 
to the criminal laws of his country — that if he 
fteals a turnip* ^ gets a baftard, breaks down a 

fence^ 

* i myfelf faw a man who received the contents of a^im 
charged with fmall (hot in his breaft. The affair happened 
at tvvch'e o'clock at neon : the man died the fame night, and 

there 



On Comparative Slavery^ 31 

fence, poaches a hare^ or commits any other fe- 
lonious ad or fraud — there are ftocks^ whips, and 
heavy fetters, in England for him, as there are in 
the Weft Indies for the negro. 

He that viiits the villages in England, and 
contemplates the condition of the peafantry in 
p;eneraL if he take Goldfmith's Deferted VilJa'j^e 
in his hand, he will be enabled to afcertain whe- 
ther poetry be all a fidtion, and for once he will 
be fo unfortunate as to vouch that in this in- 
ilance it is faithfully realifed. 

I have palfed three years of my life in the 
Wefl-Tndies, and pra6tifed phyfick there during 
that time. I had the care of two thoufand ne- 
groes annually. Before I proceed to fpeak of 
the condition of negroes, as I found it, I will 
obtrude upon my reader one obfervation, 
which is, that ever fmce my return from the 
Well-Indies, and before the fubjedl di flavery 
had been agitated, I have been ever heard to 
fay — that fo widely different were the conditions^ 
of a good field negro and a good peafant, that 
- if it were my lot to be reduced to the choice of 
being the one or the other, I fhould withoulr^ 
hefitation prefer the ftate of the negro to that of 
the peafant. 

I have 

there was an end of the matter. It was done by a watchman 
in a turnip field near London, and the man who was fhot was 
drawing a few. He was brought to the Middlefex Hofpital 

in the year 1765. 



$z On Comparative Slavery, ' 

I have ftated the general condition of the pea- 
fant, and now I will fcate the general condition 
of the negro. If I fwerve from the truth, I do 
not look for my punifliment from men. 

A. good field negro has his hut and his plant- 
ing ground — his hogs and his poultry — which 
he may either eat or fell. Thefe are on the 
fame eftate where his labour is employed. For 
the hut and the ground he pays no rent— he has 
the neceiiary cloathing found him. But he is 
not content with that — he is able to purchafe 
good linen for fhirts and trowfers and jackets — 
He lives in a climate where, in the language of 
a poet, the fun alwayr JJjines — that climate is 

perfedtly congenial to his nature. His wife or 
his children do not draw from him their necef- 
faries of life — neither food or raiment — When 
any of them are Tick, they are carefully attended 
widiout any expence, and they are provided 
with every comfort which their condition re- 
qiiires. His toil is fo light that he feels it not — 
his freedom is fo indifferent to him that he will 
not buy it — but it is in the power of every good 
negro to be rich enough for procuring it, if he 
chofe to exchange his condition. He has no 
other concern upon his mind but that of pre- 
ferving the good -will of his mafler. In de- 
fcending into the vale of life, no reflections of 
poverty flirike home to his heart; and when his 
days of labour are counted, he Hill receives his 

allow- 



On Comparative Slavery i 33 

allowance, cultivates his planting ground, raifes 
his tobacco, and enjoys the reft of his days un- 
der the (liade of his own Banana tree. If his 
mafter's fortune fliould turn out adverfe, and his 
cftate be fold, the property of the negroe, both 
in money and ftock, remains untouched by the 
mafter*s creditors. 

It is impofTible for a good peafant to have the 
pofitive comforts of a good fi^ld negroe ; the 
fevereft labour that he undergoes, and which is 
only for a few months in the year, is that of 
digging cane holes— the labour of a gardener is 
to the fiill as exceffivc. 

The reft of his labour is a riiere play game. 

He is not expofed to be dragged away by a 
prefs gang, nor inveigled by a recruiting fer- 
jeant : it is a million to one but he falls, like a 
tree, on the fame fpot where he firft grew into 
life, and that he dies in that hut which he him- 
felf ereded. 

But what if he be turned over to another maf- 
ter-— what if he be removed from one eftate to 
another?— -Is there any thing fo formidable ia 
that ? — If there b'c, how is it that peafants in 
England change their mafters every quarts of a 
year ? 

The good field negroe carries with him his 
own charadler : every body will know him 
wherever he goes or whom foe ver he ferves un- 
der. Strokes of the cart whip raife the 

F ikin — 



34 P^ Comparative Sk'very. 

ikin — fetters gall it : if he has neither whelks 
or galh — and none he will have, becaufe he has 

noi deferved them he is known every where to 

be a good nesroe. 

I fmile at the nonfenfe of thofe who can ima- 
gine that the Weft-Indian would treat his negroe 
with inhumanity, that he would be fo loft to 
that intereft which the reft of fociety fteadily 
adheres to. The cart whip, the chains, and the 
Jiocksy are to a good negroe what engines of 
punifliment are to a good man in every fociety — " 
for his prote^ion. 

Thequeftionjiiruft, will no longer be, whether 
the ilegroe be the ovi\y flave, but whether his 
ftate oi Jlavery be the beft or the worft of all 
thofe whom fortune has placed and whom yie^ 
ceffity continues in a ftate of dependance. The 
qucftion, I truft alfo, will no longer be, whether 
thefe fubordinate conditions be pofitlvely necef- 
fary in all ftates or not, for they msft ajfuredly 
are, and are proved to be fo, lince they are 
found in every ftate, and no one could go oa 
without them ; the principal link in the chain of 
fociety would be otheiwife broken. 

Asji^o ftace can difpenfe with the foldier, the 
valiki, the peafant, or ih^Jlave, which are all 
fynorymouf, which are only fo many words ex- 
preffing the fame meaning, fo every ftate is 
bound to prote(fl them, to treat them wich the 
kindeli humanity, and in return for their labour 

to 



On Comparative Slavery, 2)S 

to fupply their Wcintsfrcm the moment they draw 
iloeir firft breath to their Jin al expiration. 

In northern climates the pofitive wants are 
greater than in fouthern. In that fituation where 
nature has diftribiited mofl: lavi(hly her bounties, 
lefs is left to be fuppiied by the hands of power. 
The negroe, in this viev/ of the queftion, enjoys 
many preferable advantages. 

If I make an enlarged furvey of Europe, all 
of which might be confidered to be in a (late of 
civilifation, I fliall find that, befides peafants, 
vafTals, and failors on board men of war, Eu- 
rope contains more than two million of foldiers. 
The whole of the lower clafs of people in Ruflia 
are in a ftate of vaffalage. Fanaticks who rave 
for the freedom of a negroe, poffibly do not know 
this, for fanaticifm and ignorance generally go 
together : but if they (liould not have known it 
hijlorically , they might perhaps have read in an 
Englifh new/paper tha.t the Emprefs of Ruflia 
now and then beftows a large trad: of land with 
a competent number ef vajfals in rewarding 
the meritorious deeds of her ftatefmen and offi« 



ceis*, 



Are thefe conditions, in fuch a climate as 
from the fouthern continent of Germany to the 

*' When I was in Ruffia I faw forty criminals chained to- 
gether, and thus crawling through the ftreets of St. Peterf- 
burgh. But if any one doubts of the cruelties exifting in 
Europe, I refer him to Mr. Howard's Hate of their prifons. 

F z frozen 



36 On Comparative Slavery, 

frozen regions of Kampikatka, preferable to 
that of negroes in the Weft-Indies proteded by 
tnafters verfed in the practice q{ humanity? The 
Prince of Helfe and Margrave of Anfpach hirai 
out their foldiers to Britain diirino- its war with 
America i they were fent acrofs the Atlantick 
tp fight thofe battles in which their provocations 
had no concern — they there added to, and mixed 
in that deluge of carnag^^ without an atom of 
the impuife of nature and freedom — they v/ere 
bound to fight there for Britain^ as they woul4 
have been, if their rulers commanded it, any 
where elfe againft her-r-If their rulers were 
paidy it is immaterial as to any other caufe^ 
they would make for aW an alliance with the 
Ruffian — with the Turk— or with the Devil him-, 
fclf, if his dominion were upon earth. 

I am perfedly convinced, and therefore dOi 
not heiitate to declare the fad, that the peafantry 
of this country were thrcughbut their lives a hap- 
pier clafs of men — that they began and ended 
their days with lefs pofiiive diftrefs-— and that 
they experienced fewer wants-^when they were 
under the protection of the Barons than fince 
that protection has been withdrawn— that their 
toil was not fo great, and their comforts greater, 
They have now no other relation in fociety but 
only as long as they are able to work ; when that 
power is confumed, ail is now over will? them. 

In 



On Comparative Slavery. 37 

In the days of the Barons they paid nothing 
for their cots nor for their fuel. A common was 
allotted to every village ; they reared their own 
flock ; and with thefe fupports old age, grown 
tpo feeble for labour, could advance without the 
companion of dejpair or the dread of an overjeer, 

I know the hiftory of my country too well to 
be told that the peafantry, of their own accord, 
(hook off their ftate of vaffalage to the Barons. 
They did not-^it was by fedudion that they v/ere 
brought to it — it was in the ilruggle betwixt the 
King and the Barons th^t they exchanged their 
conditions, and God forbid that I fhould fay 
they were now mended. 

If the valTal went to the war, it was that fort 
of warfare which can only bejuftified : he fought 
jn his own caufe, as well as that of his mafter : 
he fought pro aris et focis^ and equally partook 
of the infult and revenge. Some fouljeducer 
then ftirred up difcontent among them, as ano- 
ther would now among the negroes, with this 
wide difference, that in the laft inftance there is 
neither political caufe or natural connection to 
juftify the fedudion. 

If I were to extend my enquiry throughout 
the known habitable globe, my argument on 
the predominant comparative mifery of others 
with thatofthe negroes in the Weft-Indies would 
be yet more ftrongly enforced; but as I might 
be told that the mines of Peru belong not to us, 

and 



jS On Comparative Slavery, 

and therefore thofe who dig in them come not 
within our fale of humanity ^ I fiiall leave their 
conditions to be difcovered through the fame 
telefcope and by the fame philofophers who 
have explored the coafts of Africa, traverfed the 
middle palTage, and reaHfed vifionary monfters 
for cruelty in the Weft-India ifiands. 

But I recommend them to turn their attention, 
by way of relief, to the miners in Cornwall and 
colliers in Durham, On the day of their report, 
I hope to hear from them that the accommoda- 
tions of thofe necej'ary members in fociety are 
comfortably fitting for all fcafons of the year — 
that becaufe they are working on Englifli 
ground, and partaking of Englifli freedom, they 
enjoy good Englifli food — ^and that when they 
are pad their labour they find a moft hofpitable 
retreat — that thefe damps from the caves of the 
earth which have hlafted hundreds at once, blaft 
now no more — and that the conditions of thofe 
need no commiferation v/ho never revilit the 
glimpfes ofthejun or moon* 

At any rate I do not fuppofe that the miners 
in England are worfe oft- than the miners in 
Sweden or thofe in Rujjia, and that is fome 
confolation to your modern philanthropift. 

Now that i have given a iketch of the coui- 
parative ftate of thofe in adive induftry in Eu- 
rope, and who in their relation to fociety form 
the fame link or ftand on the fame level with the 
pegroe of the Weft-Indies, I fliall not beg leave, 

but 



On Comparative Slavery. 39 

but will take the liberty of calling the attention 
of my reader to another clafs oljlavery which is 
below all comparifon, and which is more poig- 
nantly felt becaufe the objects have fallen from 
a greater height and experienced the feverer 
ibock from their great reverfe of fortune. 

This enquiry can be more ftridlly purfued in 
England, by pointing out the conditions of 
thoufands//^^r^ imprijoned^ than by extending that 
enquiry beyond thofe white cliffs which bound 
the ijland of liberty , 

Why at this mom.ent of time thefe thoufands 
arc thus immured within the confines of a prifon 
for debts is not difficult to be accounted for, but 
it is difficult to affign ajufl: reafon why they ought. 
The phyfical caufe of their getting there is 
certainly owing to the commercial enterprife of 
the people — not to their liberality in giving cre- 
dit, but to their avarice after profit. 

There never was a country known in hiftory 
where the fortune of man— where his ups and 
his downs y ran round upon the wheel in more 
rapid revolutions — Then why fnould a linglc 
Enghfhman be (hut out of his chance in this 
privileged lottery in life, and why (liould he 
that is down, be prevented from r//^/;^ again ? 
What mental improvement, what corporeal 
flrength. What a(^ive induftry, does he acquire 
who is (hut up within the walls of a prifon ? 
What intellcdual fatisfadion or virtuous reform 

6 can 



4® On Comparative Slavery ^ 

can be derived from incarcerating the body, and 
making it a dead weight upon a date ? It \s 
more liking to a viper biting the fie than to any 
thing Hke reafon. It is very rare indeed that 
another fuch as Sir Walter Raleigh mingles in 
that fcene, and who in his prijon hours like hint 
can enrich the world. 

When Mr. Wilberforce again revives the fub- 
jed oijlavery, I will endeavour to prevail upon 
fome friends in the Houfe of Commons to aik 
him if this be noljlavery with a vengeance — - 
flavery in the very pradice. I think it was Lord 
Rawdon who faid within this week in the Houfe 
of Lords, that a woman had been confined for 
twenty-five years for a debt of twenty pounds. 



— — — ^ Turn thy complexion there — 

Patience, thou young and rofe-lipp'd cherubin ! 

There is a wide difiindion htxyNiyx Jlavery put 
into pradice and the power of doing it — be- 
twixt the condition which exads aElive obedi- 
ence and that which is configned to pajjive fiif^ 
fering. 

He who is fubjeded to the will of a mafter' 
might pafs the whole of his life without feeling, 
the leaft of that power ; and if he abide within 
the pale of duty might not fmart from the tugs 
of authority ; the cord about his neck might 
hang loofcly and the habit of wearing it become- 

familiar^ 



On Comparative Slavery <> \i 

familiar, but the poor wretch immured in a 
prifon is in a (late oi fofitive Jldvery ; and whe- 
ther he be young or old, adive or lazy, he is 
yet in a ftate oipaffive exiftence. 

The penal laws of this country are too (hock- 
ing to be read. Every multiplication of them 
is an additional circle more contradled than a 
former trerpa(ring upon the rights of man in 
civil fociety. 

The Roman Catholicks are reftrifled in fo 
many ways, that they can only be defined to be 
Jlaves permitted to walk at large — they can nei- 
ther purchafe land, carry a gun, adt as jurymen, 
vote at an eledion, ferve in parliament, or pre- 
fide in any ofRce — the law hangs over them, 
like a fufpended fword by a thread : — but under 
all thefe reftraints as long as they keep within 
that pale which the law has marked out for 
them, they pals through life without a fenfe of 
pain/ 

That muft be faid to be a reform in religion 
which conveys no traits olhim who founded it: 
it was not prefcribed by him that the various 
fedls of chriftianity (hould be fubjed to the ty- 
ranny of an eftablifhed one — that becaufe one 
fed cannot in confclence (it down in the pew of 
another, but is willing to be free in fitting in a 
pew of its own — it is to be marked, perfecuted, 
and become the victim of tumult. 

G The 



^2 On Comparative Slavery, 

The laft pamphlet on negroe Jlavery was writ-^ 
ten by a divine* of the Church of England, by 
one who has {ttn lately in filence, Englijhmen 
galley Jlaves at Morocco^ where he dwelt for 
feme time and witnefied the miferies inflidled. 
This pamphlet was written in confequence of the 
tumults at St, Domingo^ the news of which 
reached England at the immediate time of the 
riots at Birmingham^ but the fufferers here have 
found no fuch pen in the hands of a clergyman 
to commifferate their ruin— no tongue to plead 
it where protection is a duty. Dr. Prieftley^ 
ever adive, both fufFers and ads-, he is the com- 
mentator of his own and the misfortunes of his 
fellow fufferers— like another Z^;^c'/?^^;^, by re- 
cording his loiTes and his fuccefsful retreat from 
the hands of his favage fpoilers, he has approved 
his philofophy and elevation of mind. 

As a fellow citzen 1 am more anxious to 
know what pafTed at Birr/iingham than I can be 
fuppofed to be at St, Domingo. But Mr. Wil- 
berforce has not as yet Iharpencd his humanity 
for our civil broils : upon that point he is as 
cold as a Stoick, 

I have not forgotten the following anec- 
dote of him: during the long conteft in the 
Weftminfter election— when Sir Cecil Wray op- 
pofcd Mr. Fox—every day produced riots- 
many 

* Percival Stockdalc, 



On Comparative Slavery. 45 

many were wounded— but one was murdered^ 
In confequence of this Mr. Fox, on the firfl: 
day of the meetingof thenew parliamenr, com- 
plained to the Roufe of the foulnefs of that 
opporition which was made againfl him and 
gave a detail of the tranfadlions that had pafTed. 
Mr. Wilberforce replied to him; and ended 
his fpeechwith the following piece of floicifm— 
*' That he (Mr. Fox) had better prove to the 
Houfe that he had a fair majority of votes, and 
produce fome fubHantial arguments why the 
fcrutiny fhould not be continued, inftead of en- 
tertaining the Houfe with horrid tales of blood 
and majfacre'^ 

This was Mr. Wilberforce in the year 1784 ! 

What is become of Mr. Gilbert's bill for a 
Reform in the poor laws of England? Does it 
lie upon the fame table with the papers on the 
African Slave 'Trade — or is it thrown afide to 
give room for the latter ? — or are they both to 
be bound up in one volume, and preferved in 
order to point out the contrail ? 

What is to be the fate of Sir William Dol- 
ben's Motion in favour of the proftitutes who 
apply in the ilreets from Whitechapel to Hyde 
Park Corner ? Could there not be found a fuf- 
ficient number in the Houfe to (land up in fup- 
port of thofe miferable outcafls ? Did fuch a 
theme excite neither curiofity or humanity I 
JVas it not fomething to have known how fuch 

^ 2 ss 



44- On Comparative Slavery. 

as are young in the pradice of luft were con- 
duced to thefe haunts, and how the fupply of 
youth, beauty, and decoration was furniihed 
in fuch fuccefiions ? how they were feduced—r 
how they were lodged— and what became of 
them when they were difeafed ? If thefe girls 
were examined and the bawds dete6led, there 
would be proved a trafiick worthy the invefti- 
gation of humanity. 

It is incumbent upon the Houfe of Commons 
to take up this caufe, feeing that the Police of 
Weftminiiler is fo loofe and fo proftituted. It 
is the higheft infult upon common fenfe to be 
>told that Government cares for the morals of 
the people or for the promotion of their induf- 
try — It is in the abufe of either that all their pre- 
{tnt freedor/i conlifls, and it is Government who 
fuppiies their very temptations. 

There can be but one reafon afllgned why 
an inquiry into the miferies and vices of the low- 
eft clafs of people in England is thus negleded, 
and why in the Wejt-Indies it is fo induftrioufly 
purfued- — ^and this is the Reafon— 

The atrocious fads in the very Bofom of this 
country are not feen becaufe they are the mofL 
ohvious^ and are not inveftigated becaufe the 
government is dire^ly refponfible for them— 
whereas the grievances fuppofed to be exifting 
in the Weft -Indies^ either on the part of the 
fnafter or ih^fi^ave^ are remote from fight, and for 



On Comparative Slavery, 45 

the redrefs of which the Government of this 
country is not dire5ily refponfible. 

England polTelTes the Weft -Indies as a fove- 
reignty, and might have an ultimaie power 
there : But be it remembered that there is a code 
of laws and a legiilative power on every ifland 
in the Weft-Indies, For whatever abufes that 
have pafied uncorreded the legifiature there are 
direElly reiponfible. Let this country proceed 
therefore in its plan of confiftency ; and fince it 
appears more rational in Government to follow 
up the inquiry in the Weft-Indies and negled 
it at home^ — let it perfill as it has began^ in paf- 
fing the cenfure hefere it has attached the cri- 
minality, and in keeping the I earn in its own 
^ye the better to difcern a mote in another's. 



( 46 ) 

On the African Slave Trade. 

At is neceiTary to remark that the Slave 'Trade 
firfl: was began and has been ever fmce conti- 
nued by the fubjeds of this country — that it 
never was, from its firfi: commencement, either 
a fmuggling or a kidnapping trade— but that it 
always has been a trade pofitively under the 
fandtion of the laws of this country, and in 
which the Weft^ India planters never had any 
other concern than that of purchafing thofe 
negroes which the Engliih ads of parliament 
fent to their iilands. 

It is neceiTary alfo to remark, that the Weft- 
India iilands were taken by Engliih fleets and 
that the adventurers on Weft-India property on 
thofe iilands were chiefly ah origines of England. 

Ic would be idle to fay that thefe adventurers 
would have renounced their native homes with- 
out a profpedt of enlarging their property by 
induftry, and it would be as idle to fay that 
they ever could have obtained that end without 
their having been, at leaf t till now, encouraged 
in the means. 

Inftead of the Weft-India planters having 
fuggefted the mode of trafHck after they firft 
fettled in the iflands, it was the trafHck that 
fug^tfted their fettiement there. From h e 

reigfi 



On the African Slave Trade, 47 

reign of Elizabeth to that of George the Third, 
the laws of African Traffick have been in force. 
Ships have embarked from England to the 
coafts of Africa and exchanged Englifh pro- 
duce for what was offered by the Africans* 
Befidesgoldduftj ivory, &c. there were offered 
^rif oners taken in war-^ criminals — foch negroes 
as the mode of African government had judged 
to he facrificedto their laws^ 

"Whether their laws were human or inhuman 
i will not now take upon me to fay. If they were 
inhuman and fuch as we in a more civilifed 
ftate ought to have been (hocked at — or ought 
to have renounced— we then have taken a very- 
long fpace of time for ripening our humanity. 
Our humanity was either long in planting or 
long in growing. — From the reign of Elizabeth 
to that of George the Third there has been one 
continued blight on its blolToms— «fome noxious 
peftiience has all along deilroyed the delicious 
fruit — the tree has never yet borne that which 
was meet to be poured into the bitter cup of 
the African as a balm to his adverfity and a 
fweec remembrancer to his future hope of hap- 
pier days ! 

If during a fpace of 150 years our anceftors 
had recoiled at the traffick of human flejh, (be 
the motive founded in humanity or not^ — how 
happened it that in the various wars in which 
this country has been fince engaged, the policy 



48 On the African Slave Trade* 

of it has been to extend our pofleflions in £he 
V/efi-IndieSy knowing as it always did — that 
the more thefe poireffions were extended, the 
greater would be the demand for thofe who 
can alone cultivate them. 

During the arbitrary reigns- oi the Stuarts^ 
fijoals of emigrants left this land of difcontent 1 
.^vAM European labourers had chofen to culti- 
vate in the fugar iflands — to take the hoe out 
of the hands of the negroes— -they would fome 
of them have fettled 071 them when the whole 
went for America^ 

Or if the idea had been prad:icable and 
choice for preferable labour had been out of 
the queflion, Government might have con- 
figned thofe tranfports to the JVeJi-Indies it 
fcnt to America: — thofe tranfports which have 
added to the population of a country — which 
have fince fuccelsfully rebelled and trium- 
phantly fhook off fubjedion to the pofterity of 
thtiv judges who fent them into exile. 

In our wars that proclaimed our conquers— 
and not fuch as our lail— -in the war that was 
concluded jufl: after the acceffion o^ George the 

Third when we poffefTed the vaft continent 

of America — when we were nearly one hundred 
millions lefs in debt — when neceffity was not 
choice and the world was all before us where to 
chufe— -how happened it that even then no 
fuggeftion of the Slave Trade being founded 

in 



On the African Slave ^rade, 4.9 

in Inhumanity occupied a corner in the hearts 
o{ Englijhmen? 

Goree and Senegal became ours in that war. 
Proofs could have then found their way to the 
Commons of England without an appeal to a 
Liverpool Captain^ a Swedijh Botanifi, or an 
African Governor, The whole of a Britifh fleet 
with a Keppel their commander, rode there 
triumphant. For fo valuable a conqueft, the 
ftreamers were fpread to the winds — and the 
voice of mifery — the cries of murder — or the 
tale of kidnapping, would never have affailed 
his ears without a ready reparation from his 
heart. 

Was there any word like inhumanity to be 
read in that Gazette which announced the glory 
oii2i\img Goree? If there were, the operation 
of it upon the minds of Englilhmen then was 
mod ftrangely reverfe to what it would be 
^^-^—For the canons from the Tower — bonfires 
and illuminations proved it to be a con qu eft of 
great importance — glorious asa vidtory — advan- 
tageous as a fettlement — and reflecting addi- 
tional wealth to Great Britain by extending the 
cultivation of fugar in the Weft-Indies, 

Liverpool nor Briftol has any thing to anfwer 
for by having carried on an African commerce. 
The iituation of both was the moft favourable 
for the commerce. The merchants there find 
their juftification in having obeyed adsofpar- 

H liament*. 



50 On the African Slave Trade. 

liament. If the African Slave Trade be cri* 
minal, it is notwithftanding an a5i of Govern-^ 
ment — and Government is now judge, criminal, 
and accufer. The crimes, if any have been per- 
petrated in procuring flaves from the coaft of 
Africa, are all the refult of ads of parliament. 

There was a time when a reformation, for 
the lake of humanity, would have come before 
the publick with a better grace — -when that 
which cannot be now an a6l of neceffity, was 
once an ad: of choice — when England was lefs 
taxed and the national debt not fwoUen to fuch 
an enormity — when the corifequences of the 
abolition would not have excited another con- 
cern left for the decreafe of two million of an- 
nual revenue arifmg from the Weft-Indies, an 
increafe could not be devifed by any means 
upon the property of this country to fupply the 
deficiency. 

Burthened as this country now is— hemmed 
in by taxes on every way we turn — reminded in 
every intercourfe of the national load by impofts 
of every fort — incapable of reading, looking, 
tafting, riding, paying, or receiving, without 
taxation— is this a time for liftening to the 
conditions of others, or even to be harrafTed 
afrefh with reflexions on our own ? 

Are individuals the richer becaufe enough 
can be barely extraded from them for keeping 
^ clear annual fcore with the national debt ? 



On tie African Slave Trade. git 

Att tliey in a temper for having their paflions 
difturbed from a peaceful attention towards in- 
diiflry by twopenny pamphlets circulated from 
lioufe to houfe— dreiTed up with a partial in- 
tention of ftirring up the feelings by paiTages 
feledted for the purpofe ? 

If the traffick be inhuman and if the publick 
at large are to be appealed to— let the whole of 
the truth be feen by them and let them not ^e 
tricked out of their humanity by inflammatory ex^ 
tra^s. 

Let the four numbers which are entitled 
*^ Abridgements on the Minutes of the Evidence 
*' taken before a Committee of the whole 
*' Houfe of Commons, to whom it was referred 
*^ to confider of the Slave Trade in the years 
** 1789,1790, and 1791/' be circulated with 
that fame induftry that the mod inflammable 
paflages feleded out of them have been— let the 
appeal be made to the reafon of Engliihmen and 
not to the pajfion. 

And let them then, in addition to what 
they will find in the Abridgements of Evidence^ 
be told of the caufe which /r// eftabliQied the 
trade in Africa — that fuch negroes which were 
received on board Englifh veifels would have 
httn facrificed to the laws of their country if not 
thus redeemed and refcued by commerce— 
and let them be told that it was that confide- 

H 2 ration 



'S^ Oh the African Slaue Trade 4 

ration which firft infpired that principle of com-* 
merce there. 

If from the beginning abufes have crept in— 
if the firft principle be fomewhat changed — if 
the African chiefs do now contrive means for 
increafing the African captives^ through the 
temptation of barter — if that which was the 
efFed: of humanity be now the caufe in fome 
meafure oiflavery — if the baneful influence of 
intoxicating fpirits has perverted the natural 
courfe of African juftice^ by which more ne- 
groes are driven into captivity than have for- 
feited otherwife their freedom and their lives— 
If this he the cafe, doQS it follow from hence 
that there are no other negroes put on board 
than what are procured by the criminality of 
their chiefs — that the original caufe has totally 
ceafed — and that if the influence of intoxication 
were withdrawn, there would now be found no 
negroes who had forfeited their lives to the 
juftice of their country and who would be put 
to death if not rejcued and preferved by Eu- 
ropean commerce ? 

I could be brought to believe that the cafe 
may be fo in an Arcadian paradife, if that was 
realifed which fancy has only fuggefted, but I 
know not that country in the four quarters of 
the globe which does not punifli criminals 
without afllgning the caufe to the intoxication of 
judges. 

If 



On the African Slave Trade, 5^ 

If the truth of the cafe could pofliblybe, that 
the temptation of fpirituous liquors fup ported 
fokly the Jfrican Slave Trade — if this were 
poiitively the fadl, and the whole of the African 
queftion turns upon it — if negroes cannot be re- 
ceived on board Britifh fhips without inhuman 
temptation on the part of Britons, and if that 
were the fole caufe of their being driven into 
captivity and fold into bondage— /i?^;/ ought 
fuch a traffick no longer to exift. If this were 
pofitively the cafe, any future eftablilhment of a 
fubfequent fa6t — that the negroes on their arrival 
in the Weft-Indies are much better provided 
with every means of human happinefs, than they 
could have found in thcknative foil, in my opi- 
nion would be unworthily contended for; their 
being kidnapped away and rohhed of their free- 
dom—as the Englifh foldiers are alfo faid to be 
to the Eaft-Indies — and not having forfeited 
their freedom, will admit of no palliation — not 
€ven that of ftate neceffity. 

But this has not been proved to be the princi- 
pal caufe of the African iidiNtvy '^Witchcrafts 
Gamingi Thieving^ Adultery, and War^ were the 
original caufes, and by the uniform evidence of 
Englifh witnefTes who bed underftand the laws 
and cuftoms of Africans^ proofs are brought 
home to our convidion that thefe fame caufes do 
exifh at the prefent time* This fad the follow- 
ing extrads will confirm beyond a doubt. 

^Mf 



^4- On the African Slave ^radi^ 

" *If prifoners cannot ranfom themfelves-^ 
^' muft be fold— they have a power over pri- 
*^ Toners of war in the ad of capture— that but 
*' for ilavery the laws would be more fan- 
** guinary— that during warflaves were cheapefl. 

*^ Trials for witchcraft generally in the night : 
'^ but from generally feeing all fatlsfied^ except 
*' the culprits, concludes the trials fair— Princi- 
*^ pals in witchcraft are facrificed— the reft fold 
" to flavery. Commonly the whole family 
'' fufFer ilavery, but with fome exceptions." 

'' -j- Convids are generally confined till fold, 
** He who receives a flave, in exchange for a 
*' convid, may ufe him as he pleafes : he may 
^•' fell him to the Europeans. Convids for 
*' witchcraft are generally put to death as vic- 
** tims, immediately after the fentence. Trials 
^^ for witchcraft being fecret in the night, their 
*' fituation can be known only from the fellers 
" or the convids, who not conlidering it dif- 
" graceful, make no fecret of what they were 
*' fold for. 

'' There was- a ferious war between the Fan^ 
*^ tees and Jpantees, the two moft powerful 
*^ nations we know of, fnortly after his arrival, 
*' for a year or more. It was an inland war, 
*^ caufed by the Jjhantees wifliing for part of 
*' the coaft — thinks he can confidently fay it 

*' was 

♦ Barnes, N? I. Abridgment of Evidence, &c. from page i 

to page 9. 
t Miles, N? 1. from page 9 to page i8» 



On the African Slave Trade, 55 

^^ was not eaufed or prolonged for making 
^^ flaves — conceives that many were fold for 
theft-— fewer for adultery-^and the fevvefhfor 
debt. 

^^ ^Slavery is iiniverfal, the Haves very nume^ 
rous fometimes. Bought by Europeans from 
the native keepers between thofe who bring 
them from inland and the fhips — he appre- 
hends nine tenths of the ilaves come from 
inland, the other one tenth from the fmall 
diftridt on the beach— H:hat they were made 
Haves for adultery, witchcraft, theft, and 
fometimes debt and prifoners of war. Trials 
are fair and open except thofe for witchcraft, 
which are fecret. Other crimes are generally 
punifhed by flavery : but the principals in 
witchcraft are generally ftrangled and then 
burnt. The reft of the family are made 
ilaves — never knew nor heard of kidnapping. 
*' -j-When in the king's jQoop, he often went 
into the country feveral days at a time and 
once crofled from Senegal to Goree by crof- 
fmg in a ferry; always heard that on the coaft 
of Senegal particularly ilaves were made for 
crimes; but moft of them came down the 
river from inland. Never heard of villages 
of that country being pillaged to procure 
^* Haves — ^certainly never heard of their being 

" kid- 

* Knox, N?!. from page 19 to page 28. 
- ^ Mackintofh, N? I, from page 28 to page 35. 






cc 



cc 



^6 On the African Slave Trade, 

kidnapped by the natives — has heard of their 
being kidnapped by the Europeans; but no 
'* man ever told him he faw it — never faw it 
happen. In 1778 he was there, a fingle (hip, 
when the v/ar had flopped the flave-trade and 
*' he wifhed to reduce the price: he reafoned 
*^ with them about the folly of keeping it up, 
^^ when there was likely to be no buyer ; .afked 
" a chief what he would do with his flavesthen? 
^^ obferving that he mud let^ them go again 
(meaning prifoners of war), the chief re- 
plied—' What them go again to come to kill me 
againr — in Ihort he gave me to underiland 
^* that they would put them to death." 

The evidences of the whole oi ihtfirft number 
run in parallel with thofe which I have quoted, 
and the firil number comprifes more than two 
thirds of the whole of the examinations of the 
Committee of the Houfe of Commons upon that 
fart of the fubjed: which refers to the coajis of 
Africa. 

To counterad thefe evidences. Captain WiU 
fin, Captain Hills, Mr, PFadJlromy Mr, How, and 
General Rooke, have given their evidence. Ex- 
tracts from their evidence upon this bufmefs 
Mr. Wilberforce has quoted, and which in his 
fpeech have been circulated in two penny pam- 
phlets, but none of thoie which I have here 
quoted. 

As to the whole of the evidence oiMr, Clarke 
fon — his is all hearfay — all at fecond hand-— the 

refuk 



On th African Slave Trade, 57 

k'efult of a mifunderftanding betwixt himfelfsLud 
Mr. Norris, who (as he fays) gave him the in- 
formation^ and which is denied by Mr. Norris, 
His evidence, therefore, upon the fubjed can, 
in the fairnefs of juftice, be only confidered as 
that opinion which any other perfon might have 
formed who has never been there ; provided alfo 
his enthufiafm, like Mr, Clarkfon's^ had fubju- 
gated his reafon. 

But neither Captain Wilfon, Captain Hills^ 
Mr, Wadfirom^ Mr, How, or General Rookey 
go fo far as to contradid; the general and princi- 
pal caufes of the Africans being fold to llavery, 
and as ^hey are ftated by the evidences which I 
have quoted. Thefe caufes, which exifted in the 
beginning, exift now and perhaps ever will — 
whether the EngliQi interfere or not. 

Thefe witneiies only afiert that the African 
Jlavery is increafed by the temptation of barter, 
and I am not difpofed to diibelieve them, for 
I wiQi to follow the truth as far as 1 can trace 
it — that kidnapping is dreaded and detefted, 
and even punilhed when detedled. Now if 
that be the cafe— the very circumftance proves 
the practice not to be general, and that it is not 
aflbciated with the common and principal 
caufes oi slavery there.- It appears that a fmgle 
negroe can by arming himfelf guard againft 
the pradlice. I will put this queftion to thofe 
"who have read the whole of the evidence upon 

I the 



j;B On the African Slave Trade* 

the African slavery — Whether in their confei^ 
ences they do not know that if the European 
fliips from every power trading there were with- 
drawn— -the pri Toners taken in war— the adul- 
terers — the thieves and the debtors, would not 
be put to death ? I am of opinion that they 
would — and the Houfe of Commons, by theii: 
laft vote upon the queftion, confirms to me that 
a large majority of rational men will always 
think fo, and know fo too. 

The tefliimonies which I have quoted and 
the remaining evidences of others fimilar to 
them are not the inventions of the prefent day^ 
but are correfponding with and confirming that 
original motive of ^/^;?;j^«f(y which firfl: encou- 
raged EngliQimen to embark in the trade — to 
fave the lives of thofe wretches who would be 
otherwife devoted vidims to the barbarous laws 
of their native country-— to refcue fuch by 
barter from certain death, and to place them 
where their lives thus forfeited may be yet pre- 
ferved and made ufeful under the protedlion of 
mailers pra6lifed by education and natural pro- 
penfity in acts of humanity. 

The captains of trading veffels are much m.orc 
competent witnelTes for clearing up that point 
which is only neceffary to be afcertained becaufe 
it will alone decide — whether the trade he an a5f 
of humanity or the very contrary^ 



On the African Slave Trade^ ^^ 

For if the Africans would be put to death if 
mot taken away, // is an a£f of humanity to re- 
€eive them. But if they are made slaves purely 
becaufe of the temptation which is offered of 
felling them to the European traders, it is then 
^n aSi of inhumanity which ought not ever to be 
repeated. 

The trading captains have without hefitation 
or one fingle contradidion proved the formei 
and the oppofite evidence does not go fo far as 
to deny it. The trading captains vifit and re- 
vifit the coail; the oppofite witnelfes have once 
touched upon it and never returned. The 
trading captains are not the merchants who re- 
ceive the profits of the voyage : they conduct 
thofe (hips as they would fhips to other defli- 
nations and are no more to be difcredited in 
their relations upon this point than others w^ould 
be upon what paffed in zheEaJl or Wefi- Indies-^ 
in New Zealand or in Greenland, 

The oppofite witneffes in their evidence do 
not contradict the fad that the African Haves 
would be put to death if not taken away ; but 
they affert that Jome are made slaves becaufe 
there is a market for the fale of them — that 
fome have been kidnapped from a predlleSfion 
for their perfons ^3.nd morever, that the baneful 
effeds oHnto^icating fpirits^expenQncGd long by 
the Englifi,have found their way to Africans and 
iiicreafed their favage barbarities beyond that 

I z degree 



66 On the African Slave frade. 

degree they would otherwife have extended,, 
Their evidences do not contradidt the prefent 
exiflence of the firfl natural: caufe, but they fur- 
ni(h an undoubted proof of the pernicious effe^s. 
^f Spirituous liquors: — that whether the pradice 
be indulged by a barbarian or a chrijlian it extin- 
guifhes every fpark of humanity in the heart. 

Having ftated thus much, I fhall proceed to. 
the examination of Mr, Wilberforce's /peecb^^ 
which is founded, as all our knowledge upon 
this queftion muft be, upon the evidence before 
the Committee of the Houfe of Commons^ but it does, 
not explain to any extent the original nature of 
the ^lave Trade^ nor prove from the evidence 
before him that which was moft devoutly wi(hed 
to be inveftigated. 

There was an obvious reafon for this, and I 
truft I (hall be able clearly to demonftrate it. 

Had the whole of the truth been laid opea 
and made known, men would have been no. 
longer doubtful upon the queflion; and if the 
firfi caufe of our trading there had, been proved 
to hcjiill exifiingy Mr. Wilberforce was not fo 
weak in underftanding as not to. be convinced 
in his own mind that it fo/itively has humanity: 
for its hafts, 

Mr. W. fets out with the following promife 
of future fincerity — ^' that he wifhed to difcufs. 
" the fubjed frankly indeed but with fairnefs 
^^ and moderation. He trufted that the debate^ 

^^ inftead 



44: 



On the African Slave 7rade. €t 

^^ inftead of exciting afperity and confirming 
^' prejudice, would tend to produce a general 
^^- convi61ion of the truth of what ia fad was 
*' incontrovenible-^That the aboUtion of the 
Slave Trade was indifpenfably required of 
thems not only by religion and morality^ but 
by every principle of found policy." 
It might have been prefumed that Mr. Wil« 
berforce from this deckration had been difpofed 
to have evinced in hhfpeecb that open integrity 
which he firfi; avowed, and to have commanded 
Si decifive tribute to truth and jufiice by the 
concurrence of the Houfe of Commons with 
his plain 3,nd open opinion of the African Slav§ 
^rade in its prefent ftate. 
, But that part of his fpeech was fo narrowed 
^nd contraded-r-fo little calculated to illuftrate 
the truth— r-that it only tended to conceal and 
obfcure it. The truth and the whole of the 
truth would not have anfwered his purpofe. He 
mofl certainly cannot be fuppofed to be ignorant 
of the queftion— whether without thefe tempta- 
tions which he has ftated being put into pradicc 
there were befides a great majority of slaves 
whom it would be humanity to receive on board. 
I think he has clearly proved that he was aware 
of the Gonfequences of it upon the minds of the 
houfe, and therefore with all his profeiTed can^ 
dour purpofely avoided the inveftigation. 

An upright judge cloathed in the ermine of 

juftice 



6'2 On the African Slave Trade, 

juilice would have dwelt upon the relative im- 
portance of every evidence and fcrupulouflj 
weighed the whole of the examinations. He 
would have attached the greateft confidence on 
thofe that appeared to be the moil uniform and 
explicit in their evidence-^to thofe who were 
the mofh competent to give it in the moft ample 
manner for the purpofe of a thorough informa- 
tion. But all fuch Mr. Wilberforce has cad 
into the back ground — he has artfully turned 
exceptions into general rules and general rules 
into exceptions : he has degraded the evidence 
of thofe who were uniform in giving a full in- 
formation upon the dedred queftion and whofe 
information tended to prove — that what had, 
when formerly done, been humanity, was, fa done,, 
now humanity. 

He has brought forward detached paflages 
feledled from the evidence of viiitors upon the 
coail:, who knew nothing of the general caufe 
of their being j/^WJ and being fcld^ and whofe 
information at the moft could extend no farther 
than every traveller will fuperficialiy acquire in 
every country he goes to. 

If in England a ferjeant wants to decoy a 
young man^ he will firfh make him drunk — if in 
England a (Lip's crew be wanted, the captain 
will be armed with the power of prefs warrants. 
1{ 2, foreigner faw thefe practices, he might upon 
9n examination prove them, but does it follow 

from 



On the African Slave Trade, 6^ 

from hence that every foldier and Tailor are thus 
kidnapped ? 

Without being reduced to the necefBty of 
urging fuch weak argument — without afTigning 
fuch remote caufes for che produdion oi slaves-^ 
caufes more froximate and natural will readily 
occur to thofe who aim to inform themfelves of 
the truth. And if caufes fimilar prevail m 
thriftian countries, where the pafTions are difci- 
plined by religion as well as law, there will be 
lefs difficulty in fuppofing more natural caufes 
for the forfeicure of freedom and life amongft a 
f av age race oi barbarians. 

li Britain configns her felons to slavery whom 
Ihe fpares from the gallows — if prifoners taken 
in war be retained for ranfom^ fupport^ or red- 
prccal exchange — if adulterers would be impri- 
foned for ever if they could not pay the fine — if 

fuch abide the punifhment of our laws the 

Africans only do the fame in a ruder form. They 
have no /hipping to entertain their outcafts, and 
BO power to command a Jettlement far beyond 
the confines of their coaih : — they therefore 
tvould defiroy them if not tempted to mercy by 
the alternative oi barter. 

Do the evidences recited by Mr, Wilberforce 
contradidt thefe fads, or does Mr. Wilberforce 
ilate them ?— certainly neither. He knew too 
well that fuch were not calculated to catch the 

greedy ears of thofe who devour up his difcotirfe 

no£ 



64 On the African Slave Tradel 

not calculated for the methodiji preacbers-^fot 
the falfe ideas of humanity in a Sharpe or ^ 
Clark/on— -nor for roufing the attention of fieep- 
ing philofophy in its elbow chair at Oxford of 
Cambridge. 

I ihall conclude this part of the fubje6l very 
different from the manner of Mr. Wiiberforcej 
who^ after he has fcledled the inflammatory 
fcraps^—expatiated upon them^-and turned the 
only fubflantial evidence into infignificance — af- 
fumes a tone of horrow to cover the unfairnefs 
of his own arrangement. 

I entreat /^//(?w citizens to confider the whole 
of the evidence upon the African Slave Trade-^ 
then to examine their own hearts after they 
have acquired the necefiary information — whe- 
ther it would not be an a5i of humanity to receive 
on board our fhips thofe devoted to death in- 
ftead of abandoning them to their fate — -and 
to be perfuaded before they yield, that as this 
was the indifputable principle which firj^ 
prompted the Legiflature to adopt the trade^ 
fo fhould it not be difcontinued without a tho- 
rough conviftion that when it ceafes the caufe of 
humanity isferved^ 

No one will be fo hardy as to fay that we 
fhould renounce that which humanity charges 
us to continue, becaufe unfounded fufpicion 
has ftirred up an alarm: — it is a very ftrong rea« 
fon why we Ihould aim to make a more nice 

diftindion 



On the African Slave Trade, 65 

x3iftin(5lion by thoroughly informing the under- 
flanding. 

We are not refponfible for the paffions and 
the vices of Africans— we are only refponfible 
for cur own condu6l. if we anchor on their 
coaftsand offer no dii'ediior indiredl temptations— 
^•^li fiaves are brought for us to receive on 
boardj which would otherwife be put to death^^ 
we are acting yet in the caufe of humanity, 

I have not availed myfeif of that argument 
which I have often heard from the tongues of 
otherS' — that if we abandon the African trade 
it will ftill be continued by the French^ the 
Dutch ^ the Spaniards^ s.nd the Dams, It is not 
that fort of argument which will operate in my 
breaft for the caufe of humaaity. 

If I thought this caufe a bad one, I (liould 
not wait for an example from others to teach 
me to defert it — aad when I did defert it — ic 
fliould be alone from the convi£fion of reafon. 

From the moment of time that the African 
Jlaves are received on board an Englifh veffel 
and ^]xiQ\\ flaves have not been decoyed by any 
ad of the Englilli on board — from that mo- 
ment of time, I look upon it, that the refponfi- 
bility of this country in behalf of the captives _ 
commences ; and at the moment of time that 
thefe captives are delivered over to x\\t planters in 
the Wefi'India iflands^ then and not till then, 
their refponfibility commences* 

K I con- 



66 On the African Slave frade. 

I confider the caufe of the trade as directly 
originating with this country — it being carried 
on by the merchants— the fhipping — the failors 
of England — and under the fandion of EngUHi 
laws. It is our part therefore to regulate what 
is termed the Middle Pajfage, It is for our 
Houfe of Commons to judge of their own ads — 
to provide (liips that are fittings and captains 
that are humane. In all tranfadtions confidence 
muft have a necelTary (hare ; and I fee no rea- 
fon why the humanity of an Englilh Captain, 
becaufe he commands a (hip bound to the Afri- 
can coaft^ (hould be fufpeded or marked with 
particular obloquy. 

I therefore (hall not purfue Mr. Wilberforce's 
fpeech through the Middle PafTage — but on 
his arrival at the Weft-Indies I (hall meet him 
there ; where I prefume I fhall be capable of 
judging upon the fubjed at lead as well as he— 
of fpcaking upon it not as an ear witnefs but an 
i^e witnefs. 

At any rate I will not conceal the truth to 
promote a weak caufe — I will not be fufpeded 
oi hypocrify hy (tlQddn'g only fuch evidence as 
tends to ferve the purpofe of enthufiafm^ but not 
the caufe of reafon and truth — my comments 
fhall be formed by their ftandard alone. If I 
promife much, be it remembered that Mr. Wil« 
berforce promifed more. 



( 67 ) 



On the Condition of Slaves in the Weji-Indie, 

ljlands» 

-/\S the principal topick which urged the De- 
bates in the Houfe of Commons for two fuc- 
ceflive days in April 1791 was on a motion for 
the abolition of the Slave 'trade ^ he who for in- 
formation adverted to it would have been led 
to fuppofe that fuch an important queftion 
would have been debated in a manner yb open'--* 
that the true nature of the origin and continu- 
ance of that trade would have been plainly 
afcertained— that the light of truth let in upon 
it would have been as broad as that from the 
fhining fun at noon day. 

But I appeal to any man who has read thefe 
Debates, and who has not read the Examinations 
upon which they ought to have been founded, 
whether he can from them alone, draw this plain 
inference — that the Slave ^rade ought upon frin- 
iiple in humanity to he abolijhed, 

I will anfwer for it that every part of Mr. 
Wilberforce's fpeeeh was printed with the moft 
anxious fedulity, and that what his art did not 
inftrud him to conceal, the pens of enthuftafts 
did not helitate to fet down— and I am certain 

K 2 



68 On the Condition of Slaves 

that convidion upon principle is not to be found 
there. 

No fpeaker on that fide of the queftion — and 
that fide by far embraced the mofi: powerful- 
dwelt with any energy or with any pretence of 
convincing the underftanding. on the neccjfity 
in humanity for the abolition of the Slave Trade : 
and this was the itdSon'^hecaufe from the whole 
cf the argument upon the whole of the evidence^ 
the trade would have been proved to be founded 
in humanity. 

The Houfe of Commons in order to have 
come to a right underftanding ought to have' 
made the African ^eftion a dijiin^i one from 
that of the Middle Paflage, and the conditions 
of negroes in the Wefl:-India iilands ; and thea 
it would have appeared evident to reafon that 
in their proceedings they were carrying along 
with them truth for their juftification : for in 
my opinion the afcertaining beyond a doubt 
whether it be an a^ of humanity or not to conti- 
nue on the African Slave Trade y forms the key- 
ftone of the whole of the queftion. 

For if the Houfe of Commons were ever to 
refolve that Englifli veflels (hall no longer im- 
port into Englifti coXomts Jlaves of other nations 
—and if that refolution be founded, upon the 
abftradt principle, that the hearts of Britifh Se- 
nators revolt at the idea of Jlavery^ it will be 
cxaded from them that their condud be uni- 
form—* 



in the Weft-Tndia Iftands. 69 

form— and then it will be apparent that they 
cannot refolve iipon fuch a principle in Jfrica 
and negative it in the Weft-lndia ijlands. 

If freedom be the univerfal theme — if that 
be the objed — if they will not receive the Afri^ 
cans into Jlavery whom they bave net in- their 
power — they muft, to be uniform, reflore to 
freedom xhtjlaves that they havsm their power. 

But this forr of argument is not fuited to the 
trimming or accommodating humanity of Mr. 
Wilberforce, nor is it found congenial to thofe 
who have addreiTed upon the fubjed: or preached 
upon it at methodiji meetings. They do not 
come prepared in their arguments to pay the 
price for univerfal freedom — Jirji to purchafe 
the liberty of the negroes in the Ys/'eft- Indies, 
and then to find a refource among themfelves 
for fupplying two millions of annual deficiency 
in the revenue. No, fay they — aholljh the im- 
portation oijlaves, and regulate thofe imported. 
Let the latter dill htjlaves — There is a thing called 
^^ State /^^f^/jy" that controuls the liberal fuf- 
fulioHS of their hearts, and that tells them., that 
fo far they (hall go and no farther. 

Even he who has been long accuflomed to 
lead and not to follow, becaufe he pofTeffes the 
Toundefl underftanding and the warmeft heart — 
even Mr. Fox has been obliged to limit his na^ 
turai outlines of freedom in order to entertain 

that 



70 On the Condition of Slaves 

that accommodating humanity of Mr. Wilber- 
force. The eagk has defcended to the haunt of 
the humming bird. 

For when Mr. Wilberforce, five years ago, 
firfi: fpoke of the abolition of the Slave Trade^ it 
was then that Mr, Fox fpoke out like a man who 
views every fubjed; with an enlarged fight, 
^^ Let," fays he, " not only the Slave ^rade 
be aholifhed, but let the negroes in the Wefi- Indies 
he free.'" — But thefe were only the fentiments of 
a great philanthropift in the abftrad. — Mr. Fox 
at that moment had not annexed to them a 
country entangled by a national debt, and driven 
to the lov/efb means for raiiino; a revenue. As 
foon as he did, State neceffity moderated his ar- 
dor, and that natural idea of unbounded free- 
dom has never fince been reverberated within 
the walls of the Senate^-^not once during the 
two long days debate. 

When I compare thefe high-founding decla- 
mations for freedom in theory with that which 
from State neceffity can only be in practice — 
when I refled on the little power we have left 
for the exertion of humanity whilft thus op-» 
preiTed by the prefent load of taxes — when I 
am told of the profperity of this country, whilft 
the taxes which contribute to pay off the annual 
fcore are drawn in a great meafure from the 
promotion of vice — I can then take upon me to 

. fay. 



in the {Veft-tndia IJlands* 7 1 

fay, that whatever might be the inclinations of 
the hearts of EngU'ilimen, they at this moment 
of time have no more freedom, humanity, or 
wealth than they themfelves have a prefiing oc- 
cafion for.— The Lilliputs of Gulliver can diO 
as much. 

It is high time for us to be told that thefe 
generous facrifices to freedom are now beyond 
our power — that there is an ample fcope for 
more wealth and humanity than we poiTefs in 
the contemplation of reforrn at home — that a 
melioration of the conditions of the lower clafs 
of people and a correction of their vi^es are ex- 
pelled from our nature, juftice and humanity* 

I will be bound for it that the Weft-India 
planters will difcharge their duty towards their 
poor without being infulted into it by us. But 
if they itood in need of the inquifitoriai eye of 
this country — it would be diredied towards them 
upon an honeder principle and with better ef- 
fe6t, when we proved to them by example^ what 
we now only exad by precept. 

Is it not of fome confideration for the Weft" 
India planters to know whether the Slave Trade 
is to be aholiftoed or not ? and do not the regu- 
lations of thofe under their protedlion depend in 
a great meafure upon it ? For more than five 
years they have been kept in fufpenfe — have 
been unable to embark in new undertakings — 
to clear away frelh lands^ or, from ih^Jhock of 

credit^ 



72 On the Condition of Slaves 

credit^ to purchafe fuch as have lately been of* 
fered forfale. 

Ought not the qiiefl:ion to have been dropped 
before now } or is it that queftion which is pur- 
pofely deligned for ever to attract the attention 
of the people of this country? left, whenever it 
be v/ithdrawn«— they will find themfelves at lei- 
fure., and their minds will be abruptly occupied 
(as if they had never feen ihtjight before) with 
the hard conditions of their own 'poor. 

After the witneffes were all examined- — after 
the Houfe of Commons was furnifhed with all 
the information that was deemed to be fatis- 
faclory — and after the long debate of two fuc- 
ceffive days, why was not the confequent Di- 
vifion the final agitation of the fubjed: ? 

Were not four years an ample fpace of time 
for the inveftigation ? — or did not the opponents 
of the African Slave Trade mp.ke the moft of 
that long opportunity, and are now repairing 
that negltdl by invigorating their fyftem ^/r^ f 
— by alarming the minds of i\\Q ctedulous — by 
circulating with Jrefb induilry partial inflamma- 
tory extra5fs in twopenny pamphlets through all 
parts of the kingdom ? 

Is the imaginary cruelty of the Wefl-India 
planters to be the theme of every drinking club 
and pfalmjinging meeting ? and are they to fub- 
mit to have their names branded with a6ls of 
barbarity for ever ? But I truft that, in the 

event. 



in the Weft -India JJlands 73 

event, men will not be thus cheated of their 
reafon. — I truft that as the fubjed: is to come 
again into the Houfe of Commons, the African 
^ejtion will be more homely inveftigated, and 
the intention which induced Mr. Wilberforce to 
keep back the truth will he fully dete^ed—A truft 
that thofe who voted in fupport of the African 
'trade will take care that the publick fhall fully 
underftand it ; and when they do, I have not 
much to fear from their juftice. 

Before I proceed to remark upon Mr. Wilber- 
force's fpeech, I wiQi to imprefsfome fads upon 
the minds of my readers.— 

That the Abridgement of the Minutes of the 
Evidence taken before a Committee of the whole 
Houfe of Commons to whom it was referred to 
coniider of the Slave Trade was printed in four 
numbers for the ufe of the Members only, and 
that they contain in the whole 650 pages in 
octavo. 

nefe four numbers are filled up with the whole 
of that evidence upon which the Debate of two 
days, in April 1791, was fupported ; and when 
Mr. Wilberforce m his fpeech gave, Extracts oi 
Evidence^ he feleded them out of one or other 
of thefe four numbers^ 

In that part Qi\\\% fpeech which relates to the 
evidence on the conditions of negroes in the 
Wefi'lndia Iflands^ he has ftudioufly betrayed the 
ftme partiality by his choice of inflammatory 

L 



74 On the Condition of Slaves 

and paffionate paifages, that he did in his brief 
narrative of the tranladions on t\\Q African coajl — » 
and he has throughout the whole of it evidently 
evinced, that if he was adequate to the taik of 
treating the fubjeft with reafon and candour, 
he was neither difpofed by temper or inchna- 
tion to fulfil it. 

But there is one point that I muft not omit 
becauie it ftrongly confirms the truth of my 
argument and alfo the notoriety of Mr. Wilber- 
force's partiality,— It (hews what a man will do-— 
what lengtlis he will go — and what little credit 
ought to be given to that reafon which is fubju- 
gated by the overbearing dominion of freju-> 
4ice, 

When Mr. Wilberforce v^^as debating the 
Queftion of African Slavery, he quoted paflages 
from the evidence oivifttors to that coaft, and 
affirmed that they ought to be credited in prefer- 
ence to the captains of the trading veffels, I, in 
anfwer to that, have faid — that thofe who v/ere 
the moil converfant in the fubject, are ever the 
moft capable of palling a right opinion. If the 
captains had given the moft favourable eviden- 
ces for his purpofe, he would have found it con- 
venient to have reverfed his argument,for he has 
done fo in the fubfequent part of his fpeech upon 
the cottdition of the negroes in the Wefi-lndia 
Jjlands, and which I ihall lliortly prove. 

I^ for my part, do not lay any ftrefs upon the 

evidence 



in the Wefi-India IJlands, 75 

Evidence of vijitors neither on thecoafts of Africa 
iior in the JVeJl-Indies\ I only make the remark as 
a comment upon Mr. Wilberforce^s profelTions 
cf juftice, candour and humanity. Vijitors are 
not competent evidence for the whole truth at 
either place, and they never meant to take upon 
them that ability. It is Mr. Wilberforce who 
has taken that liberty with their names for fer- 
ving his own purpofe in argument* 

But the obfervations which I have already 
made will furnifh my readers with a reafon, why 
Mr. Wilberforce quoted the names of vifitcrs as 
the bejl evidence on the African coa/i becaufe it 
made for his caufe, and why he omitted the 
evidence of vijitors to the Weji-Tndies becaufe 
it made againft his caufe. Adr/iirals ShuU 
dam, Barrington, Arhuthnot^ Edwards^ Hotham^ 
Captain La?nhert^ Commodore Gardner, Lord 
Macartney, Sir John Bailing^ and Lord Rodney^ 
all have eiven an uneauivocal evidence of the 

O J. 

humanity of the PFeJi-India planters towards their 
negroes. Of all thefe names Mr. Wilberforce 
has not dropped a Jingle tittle. This was necef- 
fary to be known, becaufe his fpeech is circula- 
ted every v/here^ and the cruelties recorded in 
it are become as familiar to children as the ftory 
of Blue Beard or Jack the Giant killer^ 

I will take upon me to fay, that I have, no 
more than the gentlemen above quoted, {Qtn 
during three years pradice of phyfick in the 

We^' 



7 6 On the Condition of Slaves 

Weji-India ijlands any other treatment than thaC 
which humanity didates. I will go further—- 
that during my pradtice I never was called to 
give furgical relief to any negroe who had fuf- 
fered from the fe verity of chaftifement. 

If 1 were difpofed to feafh with a rancorous 
rapture on the fordid catalogue of cruelties per- 
petrated in Englandy I would be bound to col- 
ledt a blacker lift in feven days, than could be 
found in all the Weji-India ijlands in as many 
years. The whole of their miferies may be de- 
tected almoft at one view—one is not obliged 
to fearch for them va jails ^ and in garrats^ in 
houfes of corre5fion, and upon dunghills. When 
the lift is read over, after the gang is drawn 
out, thofe that are abfent are readily to be re- 
forted to. This is that Mr. Wilberforce who 
firft fets out with befpeaking the difpolition of 
the Houfe of Commons to candour ! 

1 will now feled fome paflages from the moft 
competent evidences on the conditions of negroes 
in the Weft-India Ijlands \ but 1 do not fele6t 
them for the purpofe of exading that my 
readers (hall depend upon thefe alone for fur- 
ni(hing their reafon with the true nature of the 
queftion — that can only be obtained by reading 
the whole of the evidence. Thefe quotations will 
fhew what the nature of that evidence is which 
Mr. Wilberforce has chofen to rejed — they arc 
given ?isf ambles of what are remaming behind. 

My 



m the Weft-India Iftmdt. 77 

My only motive is to alTure my countrymen 
that whatever prejudices they have formed are 
owing to their having been grofsly impofed 
upon — and that thofe who doubt will have their 
doubts removed, by examining the /?^r numbers 
to which I have referred them — and it muil not 
be forgotten^ that it was by that reference alone, 
the Houfe of Commons, in fpite of Mr. Wil- 
berforce's pitiable pleadings, faw the queftion in 
the light that they did, and voted accordingly, 

Gilbert Franklyn, Efq_. a native of England, 
refided in the Weft-Indies 2 1 years. He has de- 
pofed, ^^ That managers kind behaviour to his 
** negroes, fo as to gain their affedions while he 
^^ makes them do their bufinefs, is to him, and 
*^ he believes to mofh people, a higher recom- 
*^ mendation than his fkill as a planter. One 
** of the firft things enquired into, is his cha- 
^^ rader in that refped:. ; no perfon would em* 
*^ ploy a manager of a cruel charader, believing 
*' him to be fuch. Such treatment is fcarcely 
*' poffible to be pradifed in fecrefy. 

*^ He does not believe the poor in any country 
^^ live happier than the negroes on plantations 
*^ in the Well-India Iflands; in many cafes 
*^ they have an evident fuperiority : their la- 
*^ bour is flight, good care is taken of them 
*^ in licknefs and in health, and they have no 
*^ occafion to fear the diftrelTes of their chil- 
*^ dren from inability to labour. He thinks 

** their 



&i 



<6 



7^ On the Condition of Staves 

*' their lot in general is to be envied by tfae 
poor of all countries he has feen. 
'^ Negroes generally conceal their moneys 
and do not chufe to be thought rich. He ■ 
^^ had himfelf a negroe who bought out the 
*^ freedom of his wife at the price of 8oL and 
pofielied two houfes. He believes he was 
worth 6 or 700I.— he afked for his freedom, 
and obtained it from the witnefs, who en- 
" deavoured to diffuade him from the requefl. 
*^ There is reafon to believe 'he has iince loft 
*' one third of what he was worth.- Many of 
" the negroes poffefs a great deal of property.'* 
His evidence extends from page 28 to page 41 
in No. II. of the Abridgment of Evidence, &:c- 
Sir Afhton Warner Byam, his Majedy's At- 
torney General for Grenada, lived on various 
''iilands from 1765 to i789-^owns no land, but 
an uncleared trad, and never intends to fettle ; 
he has depofed, ''That in Grenada a flave is tria-* 
'' ble before one magiftrate for fmall offences 1 
*' for capital crimes before two or more, one 
*' being ofthe quorum. Since he left the iiland 
'' he underfhands a law has paiTed, taken from 
*' the Antigua praftice, by which three or more 
" freeholders are to be called in by the magif- 
" trates as jurors or aiTeiTors. Comparec^ with 
*' the punifliments in England on the fame 
" offences, he thinks the criminal laws far from 
*' fevere— whipping and confinement are the 

'' only 






in the Weft -India Islands^ 79 

** only pnnifhments by the mafler or manager, 
*^ which are confidered as legal. The quantity 
^^ of punifhment, will undoubtedly vary with 
" the maiter's difpofition ; but any abufe of the 
^^ mafter's power was always confidered pu- 

nilhable by indictment or information. If 

fuch abufe \^as frequent, he never knew it ; 
^^ and co.fideriDg the nature of the mafter's 
•* power, and the variety of the perfons who 
^^ may acquire it, he has always thought abufes 
*^ of it not more frequent than iimilar abufes of 
^' poA^er in England. In general thinks the 
^^ Weft- India laws fufficient to proted flaves in 
^^ life and limb, 

*/ When he was Solicitor General in 1775 or 
*' 1776, a white man was executed for the 
*^ murder of his flave. A Have's comfort de- 
^* pends as much on his mafter's temper, as 
^' that of the Englilh apprentice does on his 
*^ mafter's; believes no one has doubted that a 
*' criminal would fuffer for the murder of a 
*' flave exadly as for that of a free perfon. 

" On all eftates ilaves were at the field work 
^' by day break, but nurling women had always 
^^ an hour or an hour and half beyond that time, 
** with half an hour at breakfaft, and two hours 
" reft in their houfes at noon; they wrought 
^^ till the clofe of the day; they then threw 
^^ grafs to the ftock, and went home for the 
^ night. In crop they work later, and on fome 

" eftates 






So On the Condition of Slaves 

*^ eftates the work there goes on all night and 
" day, by fpells, both of white fervants and ' 
'' Haves. It is univerfally remarked, that the 
'' negroes in crop are the moil healthy and 
*' cheerful. 

By the late Grenada aft, planters arc 

obliged to allot land to their ilaves, and 

guardians are appointed to infpe6t each 

eftate's provifion ground. 

^'^ Saturday afternoon out of crop, and all 

Sunday the whole year, were very generally 
*^ allowed for working fuch grounds; and he 
" thinks the faid ad has fixed it from twelve 
*^ o'clock on Saturday. This time is fufficient 
*' not only for raifing the neceflary food, but 
*^ alfo for the flave's carrying to market his fur- 
^' plus provhions and his poultry, &c, 

^* Negroes have ufually furplus produce, ex- 
^' cept perhaps a very few idle ones, probably 
^' in all gangs. He has known many flaves buy 
*^ their freedom. Beheves the king's (hips, 
*' and merchantmen, are chiefly fupplied with 
^' vegetables, poultry, &c. by negroes on their 
*^ own account. 

*^ Every eftate has an hofpital. A furgeon 
*^ vifits the flaves twice a week, or oftener if 
^^ required. One or more nurfes attend the 
*^ fick. The owner provides wine and other 
" comforts recommended by the furgeon." 



in the Weft-India Islands] Sf 

As far as my memory is imprefled with 
tranfadions in the Weil-Indies fo remote as 20 
years ago, I can take upon me to fay, that every 
extraft out of the evidence of the above witnefs, 
is an interruption of that general purity and ac» 
Gordance, which pervade every part of it. It 
conveys in the moft conclfe manner every cir- 
cumftance that tends to (hew the general ftate of 
the negroes, and of the laws in the Weft-India 
inlands. It is delivered with candour and 
moderation, and moreover with the ftrideft re* 
gard to the caufe of truth and humanity. His 
evidence follows that of Mr. Franklyn^s and 
extends from page 41 to 54 in No. IL 

Alexander Campbell^ Efq^, refided in the Weft-* 
Indies from 1754 to 1788. He gives an 
accurate evidence of the whole of the duties 
of a planter, of the bufioefs of planters, of 
the conditions of the negroes, and of the na- 
ture of the climate and the produce. His 
evidence extends from page 55 to page 74 ia 
No. IL 

" The Grenada Legiflature paiTed a law for 
*^ infpefting negroe grounds, in 1766, and 
*^ another in i^f 88. Negroes may ralfe poul- 
^^ try and hogs, and fell them for the beft price 
*^ they can get — they are forced to labour at 
*^ their own ground. 

'^ They raife, for their own ufe, or for falein 
l[ Grenada and the ceded illands, plantanes and 

M *' fig- 



8l On the Condition of Slaves 

** fig-bananas, calTada, yams, 8cc. and alfo 
*^ cabbages, Qiallots, he. likevvife pine apples, 
*^ water melons, Sec. Every one of thefe the 
^^ negroes have in their grounds at fome tim« 
*^ or other of the year. 

*^ New negroes are cloathed and placed with 
*^ the chief negroes, and regularly fed thrice a 
*' day, for a year or more, till they have enough 
*^ food on their grounds. They generally are 
*^ allowed to fell the firft provifion they raife to 
^« attach them to the eftate and encourage them. 
^' Property they can call their own makes them 
*^ happy, and gives them a better idea of their 
*^ flate. Mafters very often give them poul- 
*^ try, and encourage them to rear them. 

" In general, the negroes fell provifions, 
poultry, and hogs. A ilave who makes pro- 
per ufe of his time may fell produce to the 
value of from 7I. to 15I. fterling yearly. 
*^ Some indufhrious negroes, who have good 
" land, often fell from 30I. to 40I. fleriing. 
^^ Slaves with children have a greater propor* 
*^ tion of land than fingle flaves, and he believes 
*' in the ceded iilands half the current fpecie is 
^' the property of the negroes. 

** Knov/s no where a greater proportion of 
*^ able experienced medical men than in the 
'^ Weft-Indies. There are about forty in Gre- 
'^ nada, where they are allowed 7 s 6d currency 
*^ for each Have young and old, and paid b.e- 

'' fides 






in the Wefi-India IJlands. 83 

« fides for fradures and operations, and 20s 
«^ currency per head for inoculation. 

*^ Plantation punidiment is not fo fevere as 
*^ fifty laQies given to a foldier, and is foon 
^' cured. Great crimes are often forgiven to 
" neo-roes who have not been punidied before, 
*V becaufe, after feveral floggings, they confider 
<« it as little punidiment. Good negroes feel 
*' the difgrace more than the whipping. In ten 
^' years, ending 1788, hefaw no beggars or mi- 
« ferable obieds except at Barbadoes, where he 
^' faw many whites of that defcription, fome 
«' ferving free negroes and Haves, who pay a 
*/ weekly fum to their matters. 

" All the new negroes he bought feemed to 
«« be in afavage Hate. Thofe of the gold coaft 
" appeared more tradable and induilrious. They 
^' generally fhewed themfelves off to be bought, 
« and when examined feemed difappointed if 
" refufed. On feeing their countrymen on the 
<^ eftates, cloathed and comfortable, they feemed 
.<^ very happy. He knows not that he ever faw 
*^ one otherwife. He has often afked fome of 
« his ilaves, if they wilhed to return to Africa, 
" and their univerfal anfwer was, * no mailer, 
« me know better.' They wilh not to be thought 
" Africans, and with them ' fait water negree* 
*« and ^ favage' have the fame meaning. 

« Thinks, if the fexes were equalifed by buy- 



ing 



§4 On the Condition of Slaves 

*^ ing more women, it would ftill be impofiiblc 
*^ for the flaves to be kept up by breeding. 

*' He never knew but one man in Grenada, 
'^ who was faid to ufe his Haves more fevere 
*' than common, but what his property was 
*^ ruined. Thinks flaves are treated much bet^ 
*^ ter than when he firft knew the Weft-Indies. 

^^ Domeftick and field ilaves are generally 
•^ healthy; if any thing the former die fafter 
*^ than the latter, owing probably to their ram^ 
*' bling more at nights, efpecially the young 
*^ men. 

'^ In all the Engliih and French iflands, he 
*^ knows free negroes and Muiattoes are confi- 
*' dered as a nuifance, as they never cultivate 
^^ lands themfelves, and the women huxter pro-- 

vifions, fell rum, and receive ftolen goods, 

corrupting the ilaves morals. 

^' In Grenada, all the Creoles and moft new 
*^ negroes are Chriftians, being generally chrif- 

tened two or three years after their arrival. 

They often read the fervice over the dead. 
^^ They often attend the churches, Englifh and 
*' Cathoiick. The clergy by law muft chriften 
*' them gratis, and certain times yearly vifit and 
*^ inftrudt them. Believes the negroes in the 
*^ other ceded iflands are equally religious^ 
*' though there is no fuch law. 

*^ Negroes are naturally fond of gay drefs,and 
^^ though allowed fufficient working daycloaths 

*^ they 



a 
a 






in the Wejl-India Islands, 85 

*^ they buy fine cioatbs for Sundays. It is 
^^ very common in Grenada and the ceded 
*^ iflands to fee field negroes in white dimity 
'^ jackets and breeches and fine Holland (hirts; 
*^ and the women in muflins, and four or fivelndia 
*^ muilin handkerchiefs on their heads at eight 
*^ or ten (hillings each. He has often i^Qa 
^^ ilaves give feafts to 100 or 200 other flaves, 
*^ with every rarity of the iHand and wines 
" which he could not have given for ^ol. fter- 
*^ ling, and they very often borrow their mailer's 
*^ plate and hnen to entertain their friends. 
*^ Thefe feafls are very frequent amongft the 
^^ Ilaves. When large hogs are killed by the 
*' plantation negroes, they are commonly fold 
^' to the reft in fmall quantities. 

*^ In Grenada the negroes go to their ground 
*^ at 9 o'clock on Sunday morning and return 
** about 12. They then drefs, and dance or 
^* walk till about 7 o'clock, when they affemble 
^^ to prayers which they never neglecV* After 
*^ prayers they pafs the reft of the evening in 
*^ their houfes,'* 

James Baillie Efq, reiident in the Weft- Indies 
about 16 years. His evidence extends from 
page 74 to page 80 in No. II. 

^^ Would not have purchafed had he concei- 
'^ ved Great Britain would have prohibited the 
f ^ importation of African negroes. 



S 6 Onsthe Condition of Slaves 

^^ PunlQiments not fevere when compared 
*^ with the difcipUne of the army and navy. 

*^ Greateil attention is ufed to prevent the 
*' reparation of Haves connected either by rela- 
*' tionOiip or friendihip. Never knew ilaves 
*' exprefs a deiire to return home. Slaves in 
*' Grenada are generally Chriftians in a flate of 
*' comfort and happinefs. 

" Recolleds negroe freemen maiTying flaves, 
*^ though they know the children of fuch mar- 
*^ riages will be born Ilaves. 

*' Introduftion of new flaves cannot be pre- 
*^ vented by any regulation of this country* 

'' Plouo;h cannot be ufed. 

*^ Lands cannot be cultivated by Europeans. 

" Never was in Africa and therefore cannot 
*^ fay whether the negroes imported from Africa 
'^ are taken from a more happy ftate to be 
^^ placed in a worfe ; but believes, from infor- 
^^ mation, that they are more comfortable in the 
^' Wefh-Indies than in their own country. 

^'Provilions in theifland are of quick growth." 

Mr, Robert nomas redded about 9 years in 
St. Kitts and Nevis, as a Surgeon, and atten- 
ded between 4000 and 5000 negroes annually 
His evidence extends from page 85 to page 91 
in No. II. 

" Had every opportunity of obferving how 
*^ negroes were treated, worked, fed, lodged, 

^^ andcloathed, 

« Has 



<? 






in the Weft-India IJlands, ty 

Has pofitive evidence that the flaves in the 
'* Weft-Indies, have a decided fuperiority, as 
^ to every comfort of Hfe, over the common 
labourers and poor people of Ireland and 
Scotland ; by being regularly fuppiied with 
every nece/Tary of life, cloathing, food, com- 
fortable houfe, proteftion in health, the beft 
advice in ficknefs, and on their deceafe, hav- 
ing a father and protedor for their children." 
James 'Tohin^ Ef^, has lived ten or twelve 
years in the Weft- Indies at dilferent times, 
chiefly in Nevis, Has often been at St. Kitts. 
His evidence extends from page 92 to page 104 
in No. 11. 

" On all eftates there are regular fick nurfes, 
** and generally a furgeon employed by the 
" year, 

^' Sick Haves have fago, portable foup, wine, 
*^ frefli meat, &c. Poultry and mutton are 
*^ often killed to make them broth. He knew 
*' a convalefcent negroe flave have 1 6 iambs, 
^^ each worth two dollars, killed for his ufe. 

Lame, incurably difeafed, and aged ne- 
groes, have the fame food, cloathing, and 
^' accommodation, as if perfedly ferviceable. 
** He is warranted to fay, that the punifhments 
*' of Haves are mild, compared to thofe of Bri- 
*' tifh failors and foldiers. 

*' Has great reafon to think that the agitation 
*' of the queftion for abolifliing the Slave Trade 

" has 



£4 






ce 



§8 On the Condition of Slaves 

^' has had effedls on the Weft- India credit very 
'^ baneful and extenfive. 

Has found it eafy to perfuadefome negroes 
to adopt fuch alterations in managing their 
affairs as might tend to their advantage ; but 
in general, they are obftinately wedded to 
'' their own cuftoms. 

*' A fum fufficient to buy a field negroe's 
freedom, v/ould not be a coniiderable pro- 
perty in Nevis, if he chofe to fave the money 
he could earn inftead of fpending it in fineries 
*^ for himfeif and his wives, and other fuper- 
*^ fiuities. 

*' His property depends chiefly on the quan- 
*' tity andjlock of poultry he may raife,^* 

It might be obferved, by a reference to the 
pages, that I have feleded the quotations from 
every fucceeding witnefs — that I have not turned 
to the right or the left from one number to ano- 
ther for them, but have gone on in the ftrait 
line*— in fiichaone as he who is dejirous to ex- 
plain the truth will ever purfue. 

Almoft the whole of the evidence in the four 
mtmhers are tending to confirm this fadl — that in 
no country the poor 'are fo comfortable as the 
negroes in the Weft-India islands. This is the 
general tenor of the evidence; and whatever 
deviation is found, muft be confidered by rati- 
onal men in its true fenfe, as an exception to a 
general rule. 



in the Weft-India tslandsl ^9 

If I were to affert in evidence, becanfe the 
ftreets in "London fwarm with beggars and the 
tongues of the intoxicated vulgar utter hlaf- 
fhemy — becaufe thonfands are imprifoned and 
thoufands ftarve — becaufe refradory work- 
men who combine are dragged away to a 
.'prifon^ handcuffed, and guarded by the mili- 
tary, and their families left to fhift for them- 
felves— ought it to be inferred from thefe fads, 
that there is no provifion for the poor-— -no virtue 
—no religion—no freedom in England ? 

I am proud to fay, for the caufe of humanity 
and juftice, that the truth of the treatment of 
negroes and their children is uniform with fucli 
evidence as I have quoted, and not with that 
which is feleded from tliQ fpeech of Mr. Wilber- 
force— and I am as much convinced as I ever 
was of any one event yet in the womb of time^ 
that the more this queftion be invefliigated the 
fooner the defign of Mr Wilberforce will be 
deteded and reviled. 

He has attempted to im.pofe in his fpeecb 
upon human underftanding, and to miflead the 
humanity of the country* Of every virtuous 
a6l of the Weft-Indian his tongue is paliied in 
the praife. 

The time will come, and I trull it will not be 
long firfb, when the Weft-India planter will be 
feen in that amiable view which he merits 
for his humanity — that humanity which he has 

N the 



go On the Condition of Slaves 

the ampleft field for difplaying— and when the 
conditim of the families under his protection will 
be the envy and not the pity of the miferably 
poor, and fettered prifoners of this country. 

ne Weft-Indian has the power of humanity 
in the fullefl: extent ; and it flows from him in 
that channel which owxfirft nature ordained. It 
blelTes him who beflows it — for the kinder he 
is to his negroes, the more he is enriched. It is 
to him like an inexhauPcable fountain upon the 
fummit of a hill fupplied by the dews from hea- 
ven to water the vallies below — it is the oil in 
the widow*s cruife that never will be dry — • 
whereas the humanity of thofe in this country who 
feel for the mifreprefented condition of negroes can 
never be true — it can never extend to more than 
falfe pity. The entbufiafts have no more to give to 
the comfort of negroes than thtiv enthuftafm — than 
their ^//y — which they miftake for humanity, 

I will prefent the enthufiafl: with a diftinclion 
betwixt his pity and the humanity ofthePFeft-In- 
dian-^by the ftatement of a fair allulion : if I faw 
a perfon dying, and who was agonifed by pain, 
and the nature of whofe cafe was fuch that my 
art could not remedy, all that I had to beftow 
upon him would be the ligh oipity : if I faw 
another perfon agonifed by pain, and the nature 
of whofe cafe was by my art curable, my humanity 
would be called upon, and by the judicious 
adminiftration of it, I (hould prove that I had 

not 



in the Weft-India JJlands, 91 

not the lefs remaining by having beftowed all that 
was necefiary. Where the power of humajiily 
ceafes, pity commences. Humanity implies the 
power of doing good, pity implies the defire 
without the power. If a man of humanity fees 
a beggar that he thinks is an objedt for humanity 
he beftows him the boon. If one beggar meets 
another they can only exchange their pity. It 
is time for Enthuftafts to be told what is their 
power. 

The a-dlive perfeverance of MrWilberforce, in 
hispurfiiit of this fubjecl, and in his keeping the 
inveftigation alive in order to procure new infor- 
mation^ and thereby to infufe additional convic- 
tion into the minds of the Houfe of Commons, 
is all an idle pretence. 

He has ranfacked already the country for cha- 
radlers fuited to his caufe, and who might truly 
fay, like Roderigo in the Play oi Othello — ^^ I do 
*' follow in thechace^not like a hound that hunts, 
*^ h\M one that fills up the cry. I think that the 
•V iiTue will be, I fhali have fo much experience 
*' for my pains ; and fo with no money and a 
^^ little more wit, return again (not to the Weft^ 
*^ Indies) to Venice," 

No one will hereafter fay that this fubjedhad 
not as '■ folemn and deliberate an adjudication 
when it was brought to a decifion in the Houfe 
of Commons in April 1791 as any fubje6l that 
ever came before the Britijh Senate ; but Mr* 

Wilberforce 



9 ft On the Condition of Slaves 

Wilberforce aims to perfuade his followers in the 
chace that the motion was negatived— but the 
caufe of humanity >/(?/ defeated: he takes 2Lfrefh 
date from that day, which in fairnefs of things, 
and for the fake of peace, ought to have been 
xhQ final day : and from that date he invigorates 
anew, and revives with frefh afperity the dying 
caufe. - 

The minds of the credulous are to be frefh 
and frefh poifoned by printing his inflammatory 
quotations and by fuppreiling the evidence 
which is oppofed to them. ¥^is fpeech has found 
its way every where — has brought forward /r^ 
affociaiions, fr^fjj fetitiom, freflo pamphlets — has 
fo operated upon the adlions of weak men, that 
it is almofh infanity to hope at converting them 
— whilft, in the mean while, the truth of the quef- 
tion, which led the Houfe of Commons to their 
decifion, is left out of thefe pamphlets — is funk 
and become unprofitable. 

Mr. Wilberforce, like Fame defcribedin Virgil 

Parva primo metu mox ^q(q attollit in auras 
Ingrediturque folo— 

grown every day bolder and bolder, from a 
pigmie to a giant — and attended by an hoft, 
marches m front with a drawn fair em one hand 
and \i\s flaming f pee ch in the other,determined to 
cry havock and let loofe the dogs of war 
amongfl the negroes againft their mafiers^iox deeds 



in the Wejl- India Islands, ^3 

!©f inhumanity falfely alTerted and fouly per- 
fifted in. But as he brings this fiibjed: forward 
again, he has judged right in being fo fpeedy, 
left the fountain be drained dry from whence he 
draws his fupport — left thole who have hitherto 
pinned their credulity on his fleeve, (hould have 
feenthe light ofreafon^and difcovered that truths 
he has aimed to conceal and wilfully pervert. 
The more this caufe be thoroughly fearched,the 
\t{s/npport he will meet in the Houfe of Com- 
mons. A fecond viHory there will be that of 
truth over hypccrify, 

Neverthelefs, as the Slave 'Trade to Africa was 
originally an ad of the Britijh Senate, and as 
now the power of aboliOiing or continuing it is 
totally with them — asfufpenfe has fo long waited 
or a threatened appeal again to their juftice— 
as Mr. Wilberforce is not to be rated in his con- 
dad by the ordinary fiandard of reafon — -it be- 
comes a defend ve duty in the Weft- India planters 
to be alert in adopting the moft effedual means 
of increqfing the population of negroes in the 
Weft -India ijlands. 

For without an additional fupply, or increafe 
of population, I am confident that all future 
fredi cultivations mufc be deferred. It will be 
as much as the planters can hope, and more 
perhaps than they ever can do, to cultivate what 
they have already undertaken. 

That 



^4 On the Condition of Slaves 

That they have fallen upon many methods of 
increafing the population of negroes I am well 
aware; and 1 am alfo perfuaded that no coun- 
try abounds with men who poiTefs more amply 
the means — v/ho have more enlarged ideas of 
right and wrong — who have had more liberal 
educations— ^who have acquired more valuable 
knowledge — and who have warmer hearts, and 
more abounding with tbofe generous qualities 
endowed to men in their jirfi nature — than the 
Weft-India planters. There are alfo with them 
many medical men, who are ornaments to their 
profeffion. With fuch a combination of power 
and inclination^ it would be almoil a Jolecifm to 
fuppofe, that every means have not and will not 
be attempted for promoting that increafe of 
population amongthe negroes, fo devoutly to be 
w idled. 

My opinion of the ftate of the negroes in the 
Weft-Indies exa^ly accords with thofe delivered 
by Mr. 'Thomas, whom I have quoted, and Br, 
Samuel Athill ; they have refrefhed my recollec- 
tion with the truth of thofe original imprefllons 
left upon my mind when I left the country in 
1769. I therefore fhall fpare a repetition of that 
which has been {q fairly given in their teflimo- 
nies. But as there are fome points which I have 
reafoned with myfelf upon, and which have met 
with fome approbation when I have communi- 
cated them to others— I (liall beg to be in- 
dulged 



in the Wefi-India IJlands* 95 

dulged with making an offer of them to the at- 
tention of the p^W/fr^. 

It is now nearly 23 years fmce I was in the 
Weft-Indies, Long before that time, down to 
the prefent, there has not been the leaft difpofi- 
tion in the negroes to rcfiftance and much Icfs to 
rehdlion. Whilfl: I was there, fo docile were their 
tempers, fo /^-^y^^r^/ were their habits, that the 
outer doors of their mafter^s hoiife were never faf- 
tened during the whole of the night- — and it miifl 
not be untold, that neither the overfeer or any 
other white fervant ilept under the fame roof 
with the mafter. What the pra6tice might now 
hQ,ftnceNix, Wilberforce is beating the drmn of 
/edition in their ears, 1 will not take upon 
me to fay; but this I know, that if the effect 
operates naturally^ it will adt as it has at St, Bo- 
mingo. 

Whether this/^^ which I have ilated will be 
believed in this land offreedom^where ironplated 
doors^ locks, holts, and chains, are fometimes 
ineffectual fecurities againft the iron crow of the 
freebooter, I will not take upon me to fay — but 
yet it is 2^fa5i, and urged by me to prove the 
docility of the negroes, and the happy ftate of all 
their minds. 

So far from their not having the power of en- 
tering their maflers houfes, if it were their difpo- 
fition^ — they are free enough, at leaft in their 
perfons^ for the exercife of their wills, provided 

their 



9^ On the Condition of Slaves 

their cruel treatment ever fuggefied the motivtto 
their hearts : — but infiead of the perpetration of 
horrid deeds, fuited by the dead of night to 
minds revengeful for cruelties committed, I 
fcarcely ever vifited a plantation in the night 
time, but I heard on one eftate or other, negroes 
engaged in dancing to vocal and infintmental cho- 
ruffes. 

Whatever alterations 1 have to offer, are fo 
many fuhtr anions from the 'promijcuous conneSfions 
of negroes in their amours. Thefe are ads of 
licentioufnefs incurred by their doing what they 
fkafe^ and not a confequence of the reftraining 
hand of power. 

In the prefent flate, a young negroe man will 
have as many wives as his will prefcribes, or his 
fancy in jucceffion fuggefts ; and thefe wives ^ as 
they are called, are fcattered about on other 
eftates often very remote horn that he belongs to. 

So light to a young negroe man is the labour 
of the day, that he v/ ill walk after it for miles 
to his intended place of reft. The children which 
he may get belong to the* majler of the negroe 
woman. So that a fine negroe man is wafting 
the prime of his life in nodurnal perambula- 
tions, increafmg the family he cannot live with, 
forming attachments he cannot fupport, and lef- 
fening his own confequence with his mafter, by 
not adding to his value 3. family of children. 

If 



in the Weft- India IJlands, 97 

If a mailer be ever fo attentive to the propa^ 
gaiion of his negroes, and if he aims to be as fuc- 
cefsful in rheexercife of his afliduity for obtain- 
ing this point ii% in eftabliQiing other regulations 
on his own plantation— yec he cannot fucceed, be- 
caufe the praoiice of his negroes is a bar againfl: it ; 
for by his negroe men cohabiting with the women 
o^ others, and by his negroe women cohabiting 
with the men of others, the mafher cannot in thac 
cafe purfue the fyflem his reafon approves, by 
not having his ovv^n Imperium in Imperio, 

But this is only a preface to my argument. 

The negroe woman refiding/<3r from the man, 
whom (he fometimes fees, and is always jealous of, 
in procefs of time isyar^ to be defer ted; and then 
(he becomes, as mod of them afterwards do, com- 
mon to all. This is the natural efFed of incon- 
flancy in every climate and on all conftitutions. 

Conlidering that there is on ail the iilands a 
paucity of women in comparifon to men (and 
that is allowed in every calculation) the chafiity 
of the women becomes a conlideration of in- 
creafed importance. The women who entertain 
promifcuous connedions are ntwQY fruitful . 

The caufe of barrennefs in women of pleafurc 
in this metropolis is truly attributed to //&/>. And 
if the chaftity of negroe women be neceffary to 
propagation — if it be neceffary for that end, that a 
woman fliould be conflant to one man — that can- 
not be fo well obtained by the negroe man re« 

O fidine 



98 On the Condition of Slaves 

fiding on another plantation, and who moft 
commonly has not only one wife to fatisfy by his 
conflancy, but many more. 

In every country — to promote propagation, 
where there is a /J^m/jy of women, the connec- 
tion and conftancy of one man to one woman are 
the moft elfential means. It has been argued 
by fome that the iTurks have many wives, and 
that they populate in abundance — the fa6t is 
true, but the inference, as applicable to the Weft- 
Indies, is wrong. 

In Turkey the wars and the plague confumc 
the 7nen more than the women, and there is a re- 
dundance of women remaining. Inftead of a^^«- 
city of women there is a paucity of men, and the 
Turk takes care that his wives (hall have no con- 
nexion with other men. This fyftem of propa- 
gation is certainly fuited to a paucity ofmen, and 
therefore the very reverfe to a paucity of women. 
But promijcuous connexions are deftrudive of 
every fyftem. 

The comforts of negroes muft be increafed 
by the man cohabiting with the woman ; and 
in point of mcxtdSing population, it is moft cer- 
tainly xhtfine qua non of it. 

The negroe wife ftiould be left to the care of 
her family and employed in domeftick purfuits \ 
for \i population goes on increafing by this mode, 
in procefs of time — the planter will be enabled to 

make 



in the Weft -India Islands'^ 5^ 

make that allowance which he now allots for 
the purchafe of negroes. 

When a negroe youth Is arrived at the age for 
marriage and has made another maflcr's nrgroe 
girl the objed: of his choice— and when he has 
gained the affcdtionsof the^/r/ — and when they 
have announced their mutual attachment— the 
negroe girl fliouid be made over to the mafter of 
xhtycuth, and fent home to him. Such a raar- 
riage would operate equal to all, as on every 
plantation there are both men and women. 

It is not my part to go minutely into the fub- 
jedl — to follow it up by the adjuftments of reci- 
procal valuations. I do not intend to be fo dog- 
matick. I only mean to fubmit a fyftem, and 
to be underftood as faying, that a marriage thus 
conduded, and, when once performed folemnly 
adhered to, will promote propagation. 

Laws againfl adultery fhould be rigoroufly 
enforced, Mr. Wilberforce will not complain if 
they do prefs harder there, than in England j 
where a poor man who gets a baftard child may 
only be confined till i^^;;?/2/^7,unlefs he can pur- 
chafe out his time, and do away the crime of the 
flefli by the gold of his pocket. 

As this fyftem muft have time before it can 
be put into pradice— as there are many preju- 
dices of habit to be weaned — and as thofe who 
have already arrived to years of puberty and 
have formed their connedions, cannot be com- 

prifed 



loo On the Condition of Slaves 

prifed in it — bur as it is only adapted to toyt 
and girls growing to puhsrty^ fo mufi; it have 
time to be carried into effecl, and time after- 
wards for the operation of the effed:. 

During the purfuit of it — the planters mud be 
at liberty to pur chafe what negroes they pleafe ; 
for I am confident it will take at leaft fifteen 
years before they can be able to fay that the 
fyftem will anfwer the end intended : and during 
that time — ^it mud not be forgotten, that the la- 
bour oi young women is loft in the field. 

With refpe<ft to the children, as long as the 
mothers take care of them — they can never be in 
better hands ; but if any negledl them, or if a 
mother dies, there fliould be a publick feminary 
for training them in health and inclining their 
mJnds to morality and chaftity. 

Raw rum fliould be never fold in common. 
Such as know how to ufe it with moderation^ 
and who require it as a medicine, fhould only- 
have it. When diftributed to the negroes in 
general, it fliould be firfl: mixed with water ; 
and they fliould, if they took it away with them 
in their calehaftses, be puniflied for felling it to 
any other negroe. 

It would be very conducive to this plan, if 
the negi'oe young girls vjQTG particularly attended 
to, and if they were trained before they arrived 
to maturity for marriage, (whilfl: the fyftem is 

new,) 



in the JVeJi-India IJlands, lot 

ti&w,) to dlfcharge the duties they are appointed 
hereafter to fulfil. 

The fad is, that it is the libidinous pa^ices 
of negroes which want reform. They are fo 
amply provided for, and their toil is fo light—*- 
they have fo little concern for the provifion of 
the day— are fo free from the incumbrance of 
providing for a family — they contribute of them- 
felves fo little to the wants which create the 
cares of the por in other countries — that their 
burthen of life is ever light, and their anxiety 
iQ\: \k\.t\x: children is as fhort as that of a bird 
whilfh its young are fledging. 

An eafy accefs to fpirituous liquors, and an 
unbounded promifcuous connexion of the fexes, are 
ample caufes for checking population in every 
climate of the known world. 



f I N I S^ 



