OBJECTIONS 

T O T H E 

Abolition of the Slave Trade, 

WITH 

ANSWERS. 



' a»jalii;aiKBii H imir^Wimwi.« 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with, funding from 

Associates of the Boston Pubjic Library / The Boston Founc|ation 



http://www.archive.org/details/objectionstoabolOOrams 



OBJECTIONS 



T O T H EJ 



Abolition of the Slave Trade, 

WITH 

ANSWERS. 

TO WHICH ARE PREFIXED, 

Strictures on a Me Publication, intitled, 
'* Confiderations on the Emancipation of 
** Negroes and the Abolition of the Slave 
^' Trade, by a Weil India Planter." 

By the Pvev. JAMES RAMSAY, A.M. 



LONDON: 

Printed aiid Sold by James Phillips, George-Yard, 
Lombard-Street. 

M.DCC.LXXXVIII. 



:^- :/mX 






Introduction, 



THE following Objetflions to the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade, with Anfwers, were in- 
tended to give a fummary view of that fubje6t. 
Thefe objedtions being colleded from various per- 
fons and writings, there will be found in them no 
fmall degree of contradiction, for which the collec- 
tor is not anfwerable. But whatever they may be, 
they have all been advanced by different people, 
with a view to produce an effeft on perfons who have 
not ftudied the fubjeft ^, and they are therefore ne- 
cefTarily brought together here, to be feparately 
examined and weighed. If every anfwer be not 
found equally conclufive, the candid reader will 
remember that it is a fingle perfon, who endea- 
vours to give him a view of a very extenfive fub- 
jeft, which takes in a variety of confiderations. 

Since this plan was refolved on, a publication 
has appeared in favour of the flave trade, which, 
coming at once fairly to the queftion, claims a 
particular attention. It is incitled, Confiderations 
on the Emancipation of the Negroes, and on the 
Abolition of the Slave Trade, by a Weft Indian 
Planter ; and is affirmed by the Monthly Review- 
ers to be invincible, on political grounds. 

I fhall ftrft obferve, that where this author treats 
of a general or partial emancipation of flaves, he 
Combats a fhadow ; becaufe the prefent plan aims 

A only 



' ( 2 ) 

only at the abolition of the African flave trade. 
It meddles not with flaves already in the colonies i 
if it did, that fympathy, which firfl incited me to 
plead their claim to better treatment, would force 
me to range myfelf on the author's fide, and pro^- 
teft againft the indifcreet meafure. All our flaves 
are not yet generally in a ftate, wherein full liber- 
ty would be a blefiing. Like children, they mufi: 
be reftrained by authority, and led on to their own 
good. But it would be infidious not to declare, 
that humanity looks forward to full emancipa- 
tion, whenever they fhall be found capable of 
making a proper ufe of it. But this may be left 
to the matter's difcretion. He who can procure x 
freeman to work for him, will never employ a 
Have : for the firft does twice the work of the 
other ; and when he dies, his place is fupplied 
in the natural courfe of generation, not at an en- 
ormous expenfe from the flave-market. See my 
Efiay, p. 1 1 8, &c. In Pcnnfylvaniay where flaves 
are farther advanced in civilization, the Quakers 
have tried this experiment with the mofl com- 
plete fuccefs. Among many others, one man has 
freed loo flaves, and finds his work better done,, 
and his profits greater, for having divefl:ed him- 
felf of this unnatural property. Indeed, what 
doth a peafant reap from his labour, which a flave 
ought not to receive, food, raiment, and neceflTa- 
ries, to enable him to raife up labourers for his 
employers. But there is a confidence,, a charm in 
liberty, that doubles his exertion, and fofcens its 
toil. While increafing his employer's wealth, he 
provides for his family, and when his taflc is finifii- 
ed, his time is his own ; no capricious tyrant in- 
termeddles with his joy. Farther, the Britifh; 
legiflature fliould be cautious how it meddles with 
the itate of flaves in the colonies, left, while at- 
tempting 



( 3 ) 

tempting to regulate their treatment, it confirm 
the bonds of flavery. If regulations be necefTary, 
the ifland aflemblies fhould enforce them* While 
Britain gives them a monopoly of her fugar mar- 
ket, Ihe will always preferve a check over them. 
But if emancipation be not intended, the claim to 
the compenfation of £60,000,000 conneded page 
5. with it, is cut off. We have only to confider 
how far the abolition of the flave trade will affedt 
the planter's property, in fuch a manner as fhall 
intitle him to compenfation. But the argument 
refts on a foundation, that I truft will not be al- 
lowed : he fays, page 3, " That the planter pof- 
*' feffes a political right to his flave, whatever 
*' may be his moral right, and muft be paid ac- 
" cording to the flave's value, before his right can 
*' be extingui(hed by reftoring the flave to his 
** natural freedom." This plea is not good. A 
Iiorfe has been fairly bought in an open marker, 
eftabliflied by authority: but he had been flolen, 
and the right owner difcovers and claims him, 
and the thief is gone o^. Muft the right owner 
repay the fair purchafer his price ; or will this laft 
be allowed to keep him ? Still a horfe is an objedt 
of property; but when the queftion is fairly agi- 
tated, I deny that a man can ever be an objeft of 
property, except in the cafe of an atrocious crime, 
Vv'hich applies not to one flave in a thoufand, and 
excludes all children : the ad that reduces him to 
flavery, is illegal and unjuft j for it is impofllble 
for a flave to receive a compenfation for his li- 
berty. 

A band of robbers may agree in fl:ealing horfes, 
for each man to keep thofe feized by him. This 
is binding on them, but not on the right owner, 
whenever he can aflfert his claim. In like manner, 
one flave-holdcr may prefcribe againft another 

A 2 flave- 



( 4 ) 

flave-holder, for the ufe of a flave; but he can 
make out no right when humanity lays in her 
claim ; nor can he demand compenfation. Still, 
whatever be the claims of humanity here they are 
not enforced. In whatever manner the planter 
has acquired his flaves, no one intends to difturb 
him in the quiet pofTeiTion. We only aim to pre- 
vent his dealing in them, as far as it encourages 
robbers and murderers to carry on an inhuman 
traffick in the bodies of our fellow-creatures, 
which, as we fhall plainly Ihew, will ultimately 
only ruin himfelf, if he perfeveres in it. And can 
he come in fuch a cafe to government for relief, 
and fay, Hitherto I have been allowed to buy 
from man-ftealers, wretched flaves to toil without 
recompence, without food, without cloathing, for 
my profit; if you take this privilege from me, on 
which I have depended, on which I have hazarded 
my fortune, you muft make good ail my lofies as I 
{hall ftate them, even to the amount of^6o,ooo,ooo? 

The cafe is fairly ilated, murder and robbery 
are not on this fubjed ejjaggerated terms. The 
nature thereof cannot be explained without them. 
And can " a political right" be oppofed to this 
reafoning ? Can the planter's property be preferv- 
ed to him, only by means that the feeling heart 
fhrinks from the difculTion of? Perifli for me fuch 
confiderations ! As a moral agent, as a member 
of a Chriftian community, I am not afhamed to 
maintain, and I truft I am not fingular in my 
opinion, that no political right ought to be fuf- 
tained, which is not founded on morality and juf- 
tice. 

The flave has a natural right to freedom. 
Could we replace him where flavery found him, 
he ought to be returned to that fituation. But we 
cannot reftore his cottage, his family, his relations, 

his 



( 5 ) 

his country. If born a flave, we cannot often 
make him worthy of being a freeman. The only 
recompence we can make, is to treat him with 
confideration, and receive in return fuch fervice 
from him, -"j leaves him the reafonable enjoyment 
of himfelf. But becaufe we have already depriv- 
ed his country of millions, which have been facri- 
ficed to our avarice, are we, for any argument that 
avarice or politics can adduce, to go on to murder 
andtodeftroy ? Is moral reafoning, is equal juf- 
tice, of fo little confequence among us, as on this 
ungenerous ground to be fet wholly afide? My 
candid adverfary will blufh, when he views this 
truly horrid bufmefs in this light; and even if 
the traffick were as valuable as he eftimates it, 
would fpurn from him wealth, that muft be ac- 
quired and kept by fuch methods. To do asv/e 
wifii to be done by, is the didlate of natural juf- 
ticc, as well as of Chrillianity. We cannot lay in 
a claim to the attributes of humanity, if we deny 
its influence. 

But, p. II. This point of political right is given 
up ; for he fays, *' if the abolition were general, 
*' nothing could be more falutary, becaufe every 
'' nation would be leCt in its relative fituation." 
But if it be a right general meafure, it is a righ,t 
meafure in refpedt of us. We are not accountable 
for, we are not concerned in, the conduct of others; 
if there beany connexion, it may be fafely left to 
the management of adminiftration. Our planters 
cannot be interefted in it, while they enjoy the mo- 
nopoly of the Britifli market, where the price is 
higher than in any other place, and the demand 
increafes fafter than they can increafe their pro- 
duce. And fo much perfuaded am I, (as I (hall 
make appear) of their being able to keep up, or 
even increafe the prefent produce of fugar from 
A3 the 



( 6 ) 

thenuteber of {laves now in the colonies, without 
any new importation, that did they prove unable 
to fupply the market, I (hould be induced to charge 
it to their mifmanagement, rather than allow a 
compenfation J and fhould propofe ports to be 
opened in the Weft-Indies, for the introdudlion of 
as much foreign fugar, as would make good the 
deficiency. Thus fugar would be kept at a mo- 
derate price to the confumer^ our (hipping would 
continue to be employed, and our revenue need 
fuffer no injury. We do this in a fcarcity of grain, 
why not alfo in a fcarcity of fugar. But this re- 
medy will only be necefifary, fhould the planter 
wear his flaves out (as the author, p. 7, fuppofes) 
by ill treatment and feverity. 

Farther, p. 33. he fays, " If planters were al- 
*f lowed time to prepare for the event, by ftock- 
" ing their eftates to the full extent of their de- 
*' mands, the Have trade might be abolifhed." 
Now while the flave market is open, inconfiderate 
planters, from their eagernefs to pufh on the cul- 
ture of their eftates farther than it will profitably 
go, will continue to have demands on it. I fo- 
lemnly affirm, that as often as I have heard the 
queftion concerning the buying or breeding of 
flaves difcufled among planters, the preference 
has always been given to buying. The reader 
will determine what encouragement to popula- 
tion may be expedted where this opinion prevails. 
And the fail in my time wa^ that nothing raifed 
a manager's refentment fooner, than to be inform- 
ed that a negrefs was with child. I include not 
every manager ; many are worthy humane men ; 
J give it only as the prevailing opinion in this 
cafe. But a pofitive abolition of the (lave trade 
will bring the planter to a fenfe of his intereft. 
Ufelefs dQmeftics will be turned into the field. 

One 



( 7 ) 

One third of the number of hired fervants will 
fully fupply their place. The fmall number of 
thefe laft, will allow them to be well fed on a part 
of the prefent expenfe of domeftic flaves, and 
their wages will be a fmall proportion of the fum 
which goes annually to purchale new (laves. 

But, p. i6. It is allowed, that " where the 
" planter is unencumbered, or has fufficient 
•" ftrength, there the ftock may be kept up from 
** the births." The number in this fituation muft 
be confiderable. Every Weft-Indian family re- 
fiding in Britain muft be reckoned in it. For 
only the overplus revenue, after providing for 
the plantation, can be fpent here. Therefore a 
great part of the j/^6o,ooo,ooo, claimed for ruined 
planters, will be laved in this clafs. Of involved 
planters, I afBrm, that not one will be recovered 
from ruin by any purchafe of new flaves at their 
prefent advanced price. When Long, near twen- 
ty years ago, wrote his Hiftory of Jamaica, vol. 2. 
p. 437. fuch purchafes only involved him farther 
in debt. Slaves are now almoft one third dearer; 
the expenfe of fupporting them is increafed. 
Without taking into account the frequent acci- 
dents of hurricanes and bad crops, new flaves do 
not repay their firft coft, intereft, expenfe, and re- 
<iu6lion of number in feafoning. 

Again, p. 16. It is faid, that " generally fpeak- 
** ing, every Weft Indian planter will affirm fla- 
** very to be an evil •, it is juft to prevent negroes 
" from being enflaved." Then let us do what is 
juft, and leave the ifllie to a watchful Providence. 
Ifflavery be an evil, if it be unjuft to enflave ne- 
groes, he is in a dangerous fituation, who by his 
demand of them encourages this injuftice, and 
promotes this evil. That politician, who, p. 27, 
is faid to be *' unable to fquare his condud by 

A 4 ** moral 



( B ) 

f? moral re(5titude," mil afTuredly come flio|-t qf 
his purpofe. Suppofe in this enlightened age, it 
were propofed to fit out a fquadron to gp up the 
Baltic, to land parties to murder thofe who refift, 
to feize on the helplefs, to bribe the natives tp 
kidnap each other, to be brought over tied neck 
and heels to work in our coal mines j there is 
not a pretence for the prefent flave trade^ for carry- 
ing on the manufacture of fugar, that may not be 
ufed here. It employs fhipping, it faves our own 
people from a deftruftive employment ; and if the 
Germans be warlike and oppofe us, it will exer- 
cife us in arms. But if we fpurn at this new 
Icheme, becaufe iniquitous and violent, why is the 
f]ave trade efteemed lefs violent and iniquitous, 
for having been the pradtice of two centuries ? 
Do we ule the woman's argument for fkinning eels 
alive, that the Africans are accuflomed to it ? 
"Whatever may be the cafe of their country or 
race, individuals are not accuftomed to it. To 
each unhappy wretch, it is a new, a fatal ftroke, 
that carries him away for ever from his native fpot, 
and determines and fixes his mifery. Habit can- 
not contribute to make it tolerable. They fink 
under the anguifh, and are loft for ever to fociety 
and themfeives. 

Nor can the good confequences of this horrid 
trade be pleaded in extenuation of its cruelties. 
From comparing the numbers imported into th^ 
colonies, with the number of Creoles left, it is 
plain not one African in ten leaves pofterity ^beT 
hind him. But the value of a Creole Have, which 
is the only lafting good from importation, will be 
dearly purchafed at the expenfe often new flaves. 
And if a new flave will neither repay his expenfe 
by his labour, nor leave a profitable pofterity be- 
hind him, why is he purchafed ? Why adds th<? 

planter 



( 9 ) 

planter this unprodu6live bargain to his former 
incumbrances ? Why is he concerned in a cruel 
traffick that cannot profit him ; that muft undo 
him ? 

I am forry to obferye, p. 13. the following 
fentiment in this candid writer : "Negroes are 
bought not for population, but for work j which, 
if not done, muft ruin their owners." The con- 
cluHon is, that as the owner will not willingly 
ruin himfelf, the negroes muft be worked at all 
hazards, and as " their condition expofes them 
to accidents conducing to depopulation, their 
numbers muft decreafe." The meaning is, fu- 
gar muft be made, at the expenfe of the Have's 
life. Suppofing this for a moment of thofe al- 
ready flaves, is Britain to be charged with thp 
expenfe of ^'60,000,000, becaufe it forbids its 
own citizens any longer to commit robbery and 
murder, to lupply flaves, who are profefTedly to 
be worked down unprofitably in the making of 
fugar. But why muft the culture of the cane be 
conduced in a way, that admits not of an atten- 
tion to the feelings of thofe employed in it ? Are 
the claims of nature, and the cravings of civili- 
zation fo irreconcileable as to deftroy one ano- 
ther ? It is acknowledged, p. 7. that " flaves, 
where not worked beyond their ftrength, are 
hearty, happy, and breed fafter." P. n, 24. 
that " the abolition of the flave trade, if gene- 
ral, would leflen the evils of flavery, and make 
the breeding and prefervation of flaves more an 
object of attention." If thefe be the genuine 
effeds of fuch a plan, what claim can he have on 
government, who, from a fhort-fighted love of 
gain, puflies his flaves beyond their ftrength, and 
deftroys his property and profpefts together ? Let 

him 



( 10 ) 

him meet with execration from every feeling heart, 
and fall unpitied ! 

But from various examples in the different 
iilands, it is evident that exceflive exertions have 
not in one cafe in an hundred produced immediate 
profit; and that to keep the work of (laves within 
their ftrength is the beft rate of employing them, 
the mofl profitable way of cultivating a planta- 
tion. The number of fick, dead, and runaways, 
the liftleffnefs of thofe who remain, foon reduce 
the greateft exertions far below what might be 
got out of the gang with cheerfulnefs and eafe. 
In every inftance, and they have been numerous 
within m,y obfervation, this pufhing method de- 
feated its own immediate purpofe. The quantity 
of work performed overpowers not the fiave ; but 
the time he is kept drawling at it, which leaves 
him no indulgence, no leifure to reft: his wearied 
limbs. He might do much more in half the 
time. Therefore, if planters, on the abolition 
of the flave trade, refolve, as is fuppofed, p. 15. 
«' to perfevere in making forced exertions," they 
will have themfelves to thank for the confequent 
ruin. Parliament can difpofe better of the public 
money, than in making good their lofs. 

I fliall now confider the immediate effefts of 
the abolition of the flave trade on the planter's 
property, the revenue, &c. We will fuppofe, 
with the confiderations, p. 4. that the plantation 
Haves are worth 20 millions, and the planters 
other property is equal to 40 millions, in all 60 
millions. We will eftimate the whole annual 
plantation produce of fugar, cotton, coffee, &c. 
to be equal to 250,000 hhds. of Mufcovado fugar, 
worth in the colonies 17 1 per hhd. (their fupe- 
riour value in Britain feldom exceeding freight, 
infurance, and other expenfes) or £, 4,250,000. 

Suppofe 



( «■ ) 

Suppofe the current annual expenfes of plantation 
ilores, managers, overfeers, agents, furgeons fa- 
laries, taxes, feeding, cloathing of flaves, to be 
£^ per head on half a million of flaves and white 
people employed on or about plantations, or 
j^ 2,500,000. We trade with Africa for 40,000 
flaves annually. The Confiderations, p. 30. fup- 
pofe one half fold to our planters. Twelve years 
kgo prime Oaves fold for £4^. They arc not 
become cheaper. But fuppofe them when fold 
by the lot £4.2y the annual fupply of 20,000 
will coft^ 860,000. Long, vol. 2. p. 482. fays, 
they are not ufeful till after three years. Three 
years intereft muft then be added. The intereft ' 
in the colonies varies from 10 to 6 per cent. 
Little money is lent to planters without a pre- 
mium ; or what is worfe, conlignments of fugar, 
Suppofe the intereft 7 per cent. ; three years in- 
tereft is ^^ 180,600. At the three years end, the 
20,o"oo flaves will have coft £ 1,040,000. This, 
added to annual expences, leaves ^^'7 10,000 for 
t^ie returns of a capital of 60 millions; fomething 
better than one per cent. This is the profit of 
the manufadture which we are folicited to fup- 
port. 

The (laves in all our colonies, taking thofe in 
Jamaica from a late eftimate, and fuppofing the 
other iflands to have lately decreafed 40,000, may 
be reckoned 450,000. Of thefe the Creoles muft 
make 350,000; and among them the proportion 
between the fexes follows the courfe of nature. 
The African flaves, of which the greater part is 
male, cannot exceed 100,000. For thefe all die 
in fifteen years, and one third in the firft three 
years. Bur, about twelve years ago, the war put 
almoft an entire flop to their importation ; fo 
that four- fifths of all purchafed before that time 

muft 



( ^2 ) 

mufl be dead j and fince the return of peace, the 
trade has been chiefly turned to the fupply of St. 
Domingo. It is remarkable, that in this ifland, 
in the fix years preceding 1774, there had been 
introduced 103,000 African (laves, and 61,728 
had been born, making together 164,7285 of 
which in 1774, there remained in all 40,000. To 
, return, fuppofe thefe 450,000 (laves rented. Their 
rent and infurance would, at the low rate of ;^io 
per head be ^4,500,000, which exceeds their whole 
produce, and leaves nothing for the returns of 
lands, &c. worth 40 millions more. Such is the 
property which parliament is called on to make 
eood. We will take it in the mofl favourable 
point of viev/. If the planter pays his annual 
current expenfes, and fupports his (lock, all ex^ 
cept negroes, out of a fum equal to the rum, 
coffee, &c. and fuch a part of the fugar as leaves 
for the return of his capital ^12 per hhd. on the 
fugar alone, he is tolerably well fatisfied. An 
ordinary crop of fugar is about 160,000 hhds. at 
j(^i2 or jT 1,920^000. Strike off ^920,000 for 
the fupply of (laves, we have one million for the 
returns of a capital of 60 millions, or about j| 
per cent. If any plantation requires no fupplies, 
then the returns are about 3 per cent. But not 
one half of the plantations fupport themfelves, 
or make any returns on their capitals, this will 
allow a certain proportion to make 4, 5, or fome 
few 8 per cent, on their capital -, but only if they 
buy no new (laves. 

Long tells us, vol. 2. p. 437. 438. that the pro- 
portion of two hhds. of fugar ro three (laves, all 
ages included, is the utmoft quantity they fhould 
be made to produce, if the planter willies to keep 
up or increafe them from the births. It is in- 
deed a greater proportion than the colonies, at 

prefent 



( '3 ) 

prefent ftipply ; and therefore the (laves ought to 
increafe from the births. Suppofe thefe three 
flaves valued only at £ 50 eachi (though, twelve 
years ago, I have known gangs, including all 
ages, valued at £60) or £150. The lands or 
property occupied by them are worth double, or 
^300. The two hhds. of fugar produced by the 
three flaves, after providing above for every ex- 
penfe, except new flaves, are worth ^^24, But the 
intereft of the three flaves, and other property occu- 
pied by them at 6 percent. is;^27. Theinfurance 
of the flaves at 5 per cent, is^y los. in all,^32 lox. 
thelofsis^fS 10 j. Suppofe the flaves rented: rent 
and infurance is now feldom fo low as_^i2 per 
head •, take it only at ^ 10, or on three flaves ^30. 
Here is a lofs on them o(£6j and no return on 
the lands, &c. worth £ 300 ; which, at 6 per cent, 
are worth ^^^ 18. In thefe calculations, no allow- 
ance is made for hurricanes or bad crops, or high 
interefl: ; and in feveral colonies, the proportion 
of fugar is fet too high. Barbadoes contains 
64,000 flaves. After allowing for the current 
expenfes, its produce is not £ 4 for each flave, 
without fuppofing any returns for lands, &c. 
worth 6 millions. Montferrat contains 90CO flaves, 
and makes 3000 hhds. of fugar, or one hhd. for 
three flaves. Here alfo can be no returns for 
lands, &c. worth one million. Dominica re- 
turns not one per cent, of the money laid out on it. 
We have obferved, that 20,000 new flaves cofl: 
in three years ^^ 1,04000. But, in three years 
time, according to Long, vol. 2. p. 434. a third 
part is dead. We have then 13,700 flaves, worth 
£ 1,040,000. To this we mult add three years 
expenfe of phyfic, feeding, cloathing, &c. This 
we will make only £ 10 on the original number 
of 20j000, or ;^ 200,000. We have'then 13,700 

llavcs 



C H ) 

daves which coft the planter ^^ 1,240,000 or^9# 
each flave. The reader will obferve, that in the 
firft eftimatCj the expenfe of feeding the fiaves, 
&c. at / 5 per head, is throv/n among the cur- 
rent expenfes. But here, where we. eftimate the 
value of the flavcs, it is an addition to their value, 
till they become ufeful. Thefe calculations are 
founded on the Planter's own conceptions, or on 
cftimates which he mull admit. They may be 
varied, but the conclufion will come out nearly 
the fame. Particularly nojuft eftimate can be 
framed of the expenfe of new flaves, that makes 
not the furvivors exceed ^90 in value. Long, 
vol. 2. p. 435. fuppofes that often one half dies. 
This would raife each of the furvivors to £ 124. 
In many cafes, in our new iflands, it has been 
two-thirds. In one v/ithin my own knowledge, 
had the remnant of flaves been fold each for 
£400, the owner would have been a lofer. In. 
the moft favourable cafe that can be put, the 
furvivors of African flaves never pay for the coft 
and expenfe of the whole lor. We have obferved 
the unproductive labour of flaves, valued only at 
3^50. When valued at ^^90 or more, the lofs 
will be more confiderable. Three flaves at;r90 
are worth £2jo. Their rent and infurance. at 
this high value cannot be fo low as ^ 12 each, or 
in all, £s^» But the two hhds. of fugar pro- 
duced by them are worth only ^^24, after paying 
current expenfes. There are ;/^i2 loft on the 
rent, and ^18 loft on the lands, &c. occupied 
by them. If thefe calculations be difputed, it is 
hoped the Planter will corredt them, by ftating 
them in his own way. 1 have gone by the beft 
information I could procure. 

We may therefore conclude, that no new im- 
portation of new flaves can turn out profitably to 

the 



{ 15 ) 

the planter; but as Long acknowledges, vol. i. p. 
437. mufl: form only a new addition to his debts 
and difficulties. Therefore, the abolition of the 
flave trade, far from giving the planter a claim 
to compenfation, will really fave him. Govern- 
ment will prevent him from continuing to involve 
himfelf unneceflarily in bankruptcy and ruin. 
The only means by which he can improve his 
condition is, as Long advifes, to ufe prudent 
regulations in the right hufbanding of his (lock, 
and promoting its increafe by natural mearrs. 

But indeed the annual fiipply of new flaves, 
which in any cafe, with all its confequences^ can 
hardly be fet below a million in value, is fuch a 
drain as no profit can admit of j nor can any pof- 
fible reduction in the produce fuppofed to follow 
the abolition of the flave trade, afFed the plan-^ 
ter's profit equally with this annual drain -, fo that 
It muft be a profitable meafure, which at any 
hazard cuts it off. The fum paid for new flaves, 
if faved, would allow of encouragement to white 
people for domeftics and artifans^ that where 
there is a want of (laves to keep up the full culti- 
vation of the cftate, domeilic flaves may be turned 
into the field to make up the deficiency. 

It appears that the Creole flaves, where the 
fexes are proportioned to each other, accordino- 
to Long's eftimate of three flaves to two hogf- 
he^ds, without taking the Africans into account, 
may increafe the prefent produce, even in the 
liberal eflimate of 250,000 hhds. at which we have 
fet it (for the rum is included here in the mak- 
ing of fugar to make up that quantity of produce, 
and requires hardly any extra number of flaves^ 
and may not only keep up, but increafe their 
numbers. Therefore, if the planter be not his 
own enemy, he needs not come to government 

for' 



( i6 ) 

for relief, or go to the flave-market for re-^ 
cruits ; his crops, his property, will not be af- 
fefted. He will need no compenfation. The 
public treafury needs not be opened to reimburfe 
the 60 millions Weft-Indian property, with the 
annihilation of which we are threatened. 

But it is faid, the revenue will annually lofe 
two nnillionsj becaufe no fugar will be imported. 
Suppofe not an ounce of fugar imported, our 
ability to pay taxes would not on that account 
be lelTened. Allow the revenue, freight, &c. on 
fugar to be two millions, and the fugar itfelf to 
be worth four millions. The Britilh confumers 
then pay fix millions for fugar. If no fugar were 
ufed, he could then pay government fix millions 
inftead of two. If any thing be ufed for fugar, a 
revenue may be raifed on that article. If we have 
foreign fugar, government may increafe the tax, 
becaufe it will come one-third cheaper than from 
our own colonies. The planter is not to fuppofe 
he contributes one farthing of thefe two millions, 
any more than the Emperor of China does of the 
commutation tea-tax; except for the confumption 
of fugar in his own family refiding in Britain. The 
confumer pays the tax. Sugar is only the medium 
by which it is raifed on the public. The like 
ruin to the revenue was predi6ted, when America 
threatened to withhold her tobacco ; but we have 
experienced no fuch efFed from the meafure. 

Again, the abolition of the (lave trade will 
ruin the Weft-Indian trade, which will ruin our 
marine, p. 22. I truft the Weft-Indian trade is 
in no danger. But fuppofe the one annihilates 
the other. We fhall, by abandoning the flave 
trade, fave more feamen than the other employs. 
The African flave trade deftroys annually 2COO 
mens in ten years 20,000. The fugar colonies 

may 



( >7 ) 

tnay employ i2,oao feamen. The lofs here is 3 
in 200. Suppofe annually 200, in ten years 2000. 
The whole number of men employed in the Weft 
India trade in ten years, is 14,000, But in this 
time 20,000 are loft in the flave trade. If both 
were annihilated, in ten years we ftiould fave 
6000 men. 

I truft I have removed eiffedually the fear of 
3. demand to be made on the treafury for 60 
millions Weft-India property to be annihilated 
by the abolition of the Have trade. 1 have on 
the contrary proved, that the planter will not be 
injured, but relieved ; or if injured, that he muft 
blame his own feverity and avarice. I have 
proved, and ftiall farther prove, that commerce 
will not be hurt, that the revenue or {flipping 
need not be lellened. In ftiort, that the mea- 
fure is agreeable to the demands of humanity 
and juftice, and alfo to the fuggeftions of pru- 
dence and political wifdom. One may blufti 
to think thefe ihould ever be placed in oppofi- 
tion. The author of nature never intended to 
feparate them. They will never be found in op- 
pofition, when every confequence is taken into 
account. Whatever is juft or honourable leads 
to profit and advantage, as well public as private. 
Muft a great nation be obliged to fend out rob- 
bers to deftroy and enilave an innocent people in 
a different quarter of the globe j or fet thefe on 
to deftroy and enflave each other for the increafe 
of its revenue ? Can any advantages fo procured 
turn out well at the laft? This traffick fteels the 
heart againft every human feeling; it corrupts 
the mind, and, if continued, will prove a canker 
to eat into our profperity and importance. 

In combating the Weft-India planter's reaforl- 

ing, I prefcrve the utmoft refped for his candour. 

B I truft 



( 18 ) 

I truft I fhall have pleafed him In fhewlng that 
that juftice and humanity, which he generoufly 
acknowledges to be on the fide of the abolition 
contended for, are not at variance with political 
rights or worldly prudence. He himfelf favours 
the plan, if the planter's intereft could be fecured. 
The whole depends on the circumilance of new 
flaves being a profitable or lofing purchafe. Long 
agrees v/ith me in their having been found a lof- 
ing bargain near twenty years ago. Since that 
they have advanced near one third in value, and 
every expenfe about them is increafed. What is 
the fair conclulion which he makes I that the pur- 
chafe much haften the ruin of every involved- 
planter. 

In ftating the following objedions, I have col- 
le6led from every quarter whatever I have found 
urged on the fubjeft, and have given the npoft 
direct anfwers, each in its reipe£tive place. To 
preferve brevity, 1 have been as careful as pofli- 
ble to give no more on each head, than is necef- 
fary to obviate the objedlion in its moll direct 
fenfe. 

I Ihall here remark, that till it can be fairly 
proved by the planter, in oppofition to the reafon- 
ing here ufed, and the authority of Long, that 
African ilaves are, generally fpeaking, a profitable 
purchafe; no argument for the continuance of the 
flave trade, as far as it may affect our colonies, 
can have any weight on political confiderations, 
> And though this fhould be indifputably proved, 
and no anfwer here given fhould be fuflained as 
valid, yet ought the Have trade to be abolifhed, 
as lona: ^s its advocates allow, " that it is 
unjuft to enflave negroes,," that people, in refpedt 
of us, innocent, are dragged from their homes 
and families, are murdered by a thoufand deaths, 

by 



( 19 ) 

by chains, confinement, fuffocating air, cruel 
treatments that they are forcibly tranfported to 
diftant iflands, where not one in ten takes root, 
and there made to drawl out a wretched exiftence 
in inceffant labour without food, without clothes, 
without reft, under the capricious treatment of 
any fort of mafter, or any unfeeling boy that may 
be fet with a whip over them.. 

If we allow that power may confer right, may 
ftifle a brother's groans, and trample on every 
unalienable privilege of human nature, let us 
boldly declare it, and fend out fleets and armies^ 
wherever refiftance is not expe6ted, wherever 
flaves may be feized, and plunder or revenue 
may be acquired. It is now only that this objeft 
has caught the public attention. Hitherto we 
have fuffered ourfeives to be pcrfuaded, by inte- 
refted men, without inquiry, of the advantage 
and propriety of this inhuman traffic. But after 
this open difcuflion, we cannot poffibly go back. 
We will not, furely, permit certain murder to be 
carried on ; and we cannot pretend to regulate a 
traffic, which is founded on murder, and cannot 
be feparated from it. Should we permit this 
traffic to be continued, we declare ourfeives to be 
the general enemies of mankind j we are to be 
confidered as a nation of robbers, and deferve to 
be fufpeiled and held in abhorrence, and guarded 
againft by every furrounding and diftant ftate. 

J. R. 



B 2 O B J E C- 



C 21 ) 



OBJECTIONS 

T O T H E 

Abolition of the Slave Trade, 

WITH 

ANSWERS. 



Objedion i. CJ^H E planter will Jhew his refent- 
ment of the meafure^ by treating 
hisjlaves more cruelly than before. 

Anfwer i. The fudden diminution of his pro- 
perty, in confequence of fuch treatment, will dif- 
cover to him the prudence of accommodating 
himfelf to his new fituation, and the neceflicy of 
treating his flaves with humanity. 

Objed. 1. The fugar colonies will throw them- 
fdves into the arm;: of France, 

Anfw. 2. Then will Britain be freed of the 
expenfe of their prote6lion, and be able to procure 
plenty of fugar at two thirds of the prefent price. 
Planters complain that they can hardly cultivate 
their plantations, while enjoying the monopoly of 

B 3 the 



( 22 ) 

the Britifh market. How will they bear the re- 
ciudion of one third of its value in the markets of 
their new mafters, for that is the ordinary propor- 
tion of the price of French fugars ? 

Obje6t. 3. Planters in debt will carry their Jlaves 
to the SpaniJJo colonies. 

Anfw. 3. This may be left to the vigilance of 
their creditors, 

Obje6l. 4, Sugar cannot he procured from foreign^ 
ers, 

Jnfw. 4, While fugar is made, Britifh money 
will command it. Foreign fugars, near one third 
cheaper than Britifh, have long found their way 
into our colonies. The importation may be ex- 
tended, but it will not be neceffary. Indeed fu- 
gar might be brought from the Eail-Indies, made 
by free men, much cheaper than flaves can poffi-^ 
bly produce it in the Weil-Indies, Good clayed 
fugar is fold in Batavia by the cwt. for about 13s, 
Arrack made from it is worth only 8d. per gallon. 
Thefe prices would allow of the expenfe of freight 
to Europe, and the fugar to be fold at 3d. per 
pound in England. In Cochin China it is made 
even at half this price. 

Objefl. 5, The planter will prove the ahfurdity 
cf ihe tneajurej by increafmg the feverity of his manner 

of treating his flaves, 

Anjw. 3'. When he finds his property hurt by 
fuch a flep, he will defift fronrj his unfeeling con« 
du6t, 

Objedb. 6^ 



( 23 ) 

Objed. 6. Involved planters will wajle their 
Jlaves by exceffive exertions, 

Anjw, 6. ExcefTive exertions have conftantly 
proved ruinous. Nor can the neceffity of making 
iuch exertions be avoided by the introduftion of 
new flaves ; becaufe they cannot poflibly be nnade 
(fee introdu6lion) to repay their firft cod, cxpenfe 
and lofs in feafoning. Still the involved planter 
fliuts his eyes, and goes on, though every exam- 
ple around him folicits him to abandon the vain 
attempt, 

Objed, 7.. 'The neutral ijlands were fettled, and 
their lands bought in a confidence, that government 
would continue to permit the importation of /laves. 

Anjzv, 7. The fale of thefe lands has been 
•clofed near twenty years. If any of them be un- 
fettled, they never can henceforth be profitably 
fettled by African flaves ; for they never repay 
itheir own coft, and therefore cannot contribute to 
clear lands and ere6l buildings. The truth is, 
that the lands now remaining uncultivated, have 
not generally been paid for, or have been aban- 
doned as unprofitable. 

Object:. 8, Parliament has given itsJanSlionto 
ihe trade by regulating it, 

Anfw, 8. If the countenance given by parlia- 
ment to this horrid trade, has conftantly been pro- 
cured by the reprefentations of interefied people, 
mufb government be charged with the confequen- 
.ces arifing from the impofition. Becaufe we had 
laws that once fixed a commutation for murder, 
were we thereby precluded, from ever improving 
B 4 our 



( 24 ) 

our police ? But this fhews how cautious we fliould 
be, by an}^ regulation, to give a fandlion to op^ 
preffion and murder. 

Objeft. 9. A religious fociety is fojfejfed of a 
'plantation in BarbadoeSj and employs Jlaves. 

Anfw. 9. It holds the Codrington eftate for 
particular purpofes, on condition of keeping up a 
certain nunnber of (laves. Like other abfent pro- 
prietors, it has fufFered by the mifmanagennent of 
fervants. It is now in a train to anfwer both the 
intentions of the donor, and the wilhes of huma- 
nity. 

Objeft. 10. ^he treatment of horfes fhould he 
regulated at home^ before we look to Africa. 

Anfw. 10. When we have vindicated the 
rights of our fellows, it is to be hoped horfes will 
be confidered; fordoubtlefs they are an objedl of 
police. But doth not this fhew, that a flave is 
efteemed a mere beaft of burden. 

Objecb. II. 'To imprifon debtor Sj and imprefs 
men to ferve in war, are violations of moral law^ 
equally uith domejlicfla'very. Confideration, p. 28. 

Anfw. Ti. He who runs in debt knows the 
confequences ; but all is a force upon the poor 
regroe. Many men enter into the fea or land fer- 
vice v/illingiy j and thole who are imprelTed arc 
treated as volunteers are. But we never heard of 
an African offermg himfelf to be received into a 
flave fhip •, nor vv'hen he was forced on board, of 
having been put on a footing with the fhip's crew, 
put the impreffed faiior, he is among his country^ 

men^ 



( ^J ) 

men, and ferves his country. What common tic 
fubfifts between an African, living 1200 miles 
from the fea coaft, and a Weil-Indian planter, to 
induce him to fubmit to be tied neck and heel, to 
die a thoul^md fufFocating deaths on fhip board; 
to go and be beaten, half flarved, and abufed, in 
the cultivation of a plant, from which he reaps no 
profit ? 

Objed. 12. The agitation of this quejlion will 
ratfe a rebellion among thejlaves. 

Anjw. 12. Helplefs wretches. Their fpirits 
are too much broken down to think of rebellion. 
But if it be fufpefted, let the planters, inftead of 
moving heaven and earth to prevent their relief, 
come nobly forward, and propofe a plan for their 
protedion. They will blefs and cheerfully ferve 
them. 

Objecl. 13. Slaves cannot he trujied with arms. 

AnJw. 13. They have formed a part of the 
militia in Barbadoes, and have been found faith- 
ful. This would univerfally be the cafe, were 
they advanced in fociety. They acquire the emu- 
lation of Britons, and would exert themfelves in 
their caufe, had they privileges or property to 
contend for. 

Objeft. 14. Negroes are an inferiour race of 
beings, 

Anfw. 14. Every man of candour acquainted 
with them will deny this. But fuppofe it, will 
thofe who plead for laws in favour of horfes, main- 
tain that negroes are to be trepanned, murdered 

by 



( =6 ) 

by dioiifandsj and enflaved for the indulgence of 
our avarice ? 

Objeft. 15. Leo Africanus dejcrihes the negroes 

cf his time^ Anno 150c, as hrutijh, and then fold for 

Jlaves, before the commencement of the prefent traffick,, 

Anfw, 15. He fays the iliepherds and moun- 
taineers, of ail the different African nations, as 
well as negroes, were brutifii ; but that the people 
of the plains and cities were polifned, having arts, 
fciences, and laws among them. He vifited only 
the fettlements along the Senegal branch of the 
Niger, and fays the countries foiithward were pof- 
feffed by rich induftrious people, great lovers of 
juftice and equity. He mentions the kings of 
Tombuto and Burno, two negroe ftates, as going 
to war to take flaves to be Ibid to merchants, trad- 
ing to iEgypt and the Mediterranean cities. But 
do we argue for ilavery, becaufe at all times the 
ftrong have endiraiied the weak ? Becaufe Jofeph 
was fold by his brethren, was Pharoah vindicated 
for enilaving the whole Hebrew nation ^. Or are 
we to continue for ever to encourage negroes to 
kidnap e^ich other to be fold to us, becaufe 300 
years ago the king of Tombuto kidnapped and 
fold his neighbours ? 

Objefl. 16. Supplies from Africa are neceffary t9 

hep up theftock, 

Anfzv. 16. Becaufe planters prefer the hopes 
(I deny they ever polfefs the fubftance) of prefent 
profit to future advantage; and commit their af- 
fairs to managers, who, being not concerned in 
what may happen thirty years hence, prefer the 
buying to the breeding of flaves. Hence we may 

judge 



( 27 ) 

judge how far to believe them, when they fay 
they favour population. But Hop the trade, and 
tlieir opinion and pradice will both be changed. 
That increafe of (laves from the births, which ac- 
companies humane treatment on every plantation, 
in every ifland where now pra£lifed, will then be 
general. But wherefore (hould we go to Africa 
for flaves ? Why not to France, Spain, or Italy ? 
It would be equally lawful, and the little oppofi- 
tion we might meet v/ith, would encourage a mi- 
litary fpirit among us, without the expenfe of 
fleets or armies, 

Obje61:. 17. Small plantations in debt will b& 
abandoned^ or united to others, 

Jnfiv. 17. It is the bell thing that can happen 
both to debtor and creditor ; for fuch never pay 
intereft money ; nor indeed do they fupport them- 
felves, except where the planter is our of debt, 
and lives with his flaves, planting provifions for 
himfelf and them, and being contented to fend to 
market as much fugar as an attention to thefe ob- 
jects permits to purchafe what his plantation af- 
fords not, 

Obj eft. 1 8 . Large plantations will fend lejs fu* 
gar to market, 

Anfw. i8. In every plantation much land is 
put in canes that pays not for the culture. Per- 
haps one fourth part of St. Kitts is in this fitua- 
tion, and a much greater proportion in fome other 
colonies. Turn this into provilions for the flaves^ 
and grafs for the cattle j fewer flaves will do the 
work, and the reduced quantity of land referved 
for the canes, getting more manure, will itand 

the 



C 2S ) 

the weather better, and produce more certain and 
better crops, 

Objefl. 19. ^hemportationojjugary and its re- 
venue, will be affected, 

Anjw. 19. The importation of fugar will 
soever be profitably increafed (fee introdu(9:ion) 
by the purchafe of African flaves ; and we have 
proved that the revenue depends not on the quan- 
tity of fugar made in our own colonies j for we 
may raife the fame, or higher duties, on foreign 
fugars. (See introdudtion, and objefl. 4.) 

Obje6t. 20. The confumption of Britijh commodi-' 
ties in the ijlands will be lejfened^ 

AyijV), 10, The eonfumptlon of the fugar colonies 
is hardly half the confumption of half a million of 
people in a diftant quarter of the globe. But the 
abolition will greatly increafe it. For the flaves 
mud be better fupplied than hitherto with necef- 
faries 3 and as they advance in fociety they will 
increafe in their demands. 

Objedl. 21. 'The cultivation of the cane will be 
diminifhed, 

Anfw. 21. So it may, and yet the quantity of 
fugar, and the profit from it, be increafed, if only 
•what pays for the culture (Objed. 18.) beufed; 
lands producing lefs than an hogfliead per acre, 
hardly pays for the culture. Our iflands contain 
about four millions of acres. A crop is taken 
from the fame land every fecondyear; from fome 
frefli lands every year; 1 20^,000 acres of good 
land fele6ted for each crop, might give from 

180,000 



( 29 ) 

i8o,ooo to 200,000 hogfheads, which exceeds a 
jmedium crop at prefent. According to Long'^s 
eftimate, 200,000 hogfheads may be made by 
300,000 flaves, without leflening their numbers. 
A much lefs number properly fed, worked and 
aiTifted with cattle, would be fufficient. 

Object. 22. 'ithe new ijlands require new Jlaves, 
and plantations underhanded may be improved by 
them. 

Anjw. 22. Hardly has one plantation in th€ 
new iflands given the lowed ufual intercft on its 
cofl and expenfes. But the price of African flaves 
is now advanced fo high (Objeft. 19) that hence- 
forth no purchafe of them can poilibly turn out 
profitable. The value of a negroe's labour, argu- 
ing from Long's eftimate, vol. 2. p. 437, 4j8, of 
three flaves to two hhds. can be reckoned only at 
_^8. But the ufual rent and infurance of a flave, is 
from^^io to ^12, and there is nothing left for the 
returns of the lands, &c. occupied by them. If 
ever, from this time, new lands be brought into 
culture, fome other method, than this of working 
them by African flaves, muft be tried. Let the 
planter twifl the calculation as he pleafes, he will 
never prove a new flave profitable. 

Objed. 23. 'I'he planter can hear no interruption 
in the annual Jupply ofjlaves, 

Anjw. 2^i In the late war he bore the inter- 
ruption for about flx years, without any fenfible 
injury. Since that time he has made but fmall 
ufe of the trade, but though in his own power, has 
turned it over to the French and Spaniards. 
There is an accommodating difpofition in man, 

that 



C 30 ) 

that adapts itfelf ta neceffity. This meafure in- 
deed will only keep the planter, even in the opi- 
nion of Long, from running in debt. 

Objeft. 24. ^he planter tvill he ruined, 

Anjw. 24. Not one will be injured (Objed. 6. 
22, 23.) whofe ruin is not already fealed. He who 
is not in debt, will accommodate himfelf to his 
fituation. > He will throw out, or fallow his poor 
grounds. He will manure better what remains. 
He will allot lands for provifions and grafs. He 
will ufe the affiftance of cattle. He will work 
flaves not as hitherto againft time, but a certain 
ta& of work. He will allow them food, reft, and 
clothing. He will hire w^hite people, or free ne- 
groes and mulattoes (of whom there are great 
numbers in the colonies, without employment) 
for domeftics, and turn his flaves into the field. 
He will buy up around him for the culture-of the 
cane, thofe flaves that are now employed in lefs 
produftive labour, or that belong to poor free 
people, who are kept poor and idle, depending on 
their flaves induftry. This plan is alfo the befl: 
that the involved planter can purfue, unlefs he 
can fell his flaves and other property to a more 
wealthy neighbour. Thus by being prevented 
from purchafing nev/ flaves, many may be forced 
to methods of humanity, and faved from otherwife 
inevitable ruin. 

Objecl. 25. A Jugar plantation is a profit ahk 
manufa^ory, 

Anfw. 25. It is an expenfive lofing one. It 
will in no cafe fucceed, but on a large fcale, where 
it can have within itfelf proviflons, recruits of 

flaves 



( 3' ) 

flaves and cattle. Even few of the mofl: profit- 
able coulcj bear to be brought to calculation, if 
their expenfes were carried on from the firft pur- 
chafe. 

Objed. 26, White men cannot work in a JVeJi- 
Jndian climate. 

Anfiv, 26. Nor white nor black can fupport 
unremitting labour, without food or reft. But 
white men kept from new rum, may, in the morn- 
ing and evening, perform double the prefent talli: 
of flaves, without fuffering from the climate. 
Barbadoes, St. Kitts, and Nevis, were originally- 
fettled by white men. It was only on the intro- 
duftion of negroes, that they began to decreafe in 
numbers. But the mortality could not pofTibly 
have been greater among them than has been 
lately in the new iflands, and in clearing frefh 
lands in Jamaica. 

Objeft. 27. Nor will they work with Jlaves. 

Anjw. 27. Poor white men do work alono- 
with their flaves. The befl: fortunes that have 
been eftablifhcd in the Weft-Indies, have been by 
thofe, who firft worked to buy, and then fhared 
labour with a flave. There is, I believe, a baro- 
net now alive, whom his mother tied on her back, 
while Ihe fed the mill with canes. The author 
got acquainted with a Frenchman in St. Vin- 
cent's, who began with his two hands, and fettled 
and ftocked in fuccefTion, five coffee plantations, 

Objed. 28. Free negroes or mulattoes will not 
ivork withjlcives in the field, 

Jnfw, 28. 



( 52 ) 

'Anjw* 28. Then hire them as domeftlcs, and 
turn domeftic flaves into the field. The colonies 
at prefent contain twice as many (laves as are ne- 
ceflary, if properly aflifted, treated and worked, to 
fend the prefent produce to market ; and any fup- 
ply of labourers, if really wanted, is preferable to 
the African flave trade. Nor can an objedtion to 
theturningof domeftics and others into the field, 
be made by him, who propofes to go to Africa to 
kidnap, or encourage others to kidnap, and force 
happy free people from their native country, to 
die a thoufand deaths in their paflage to the Wefb* 
Indies, that perhaps one in ten may work in his- 
field a half ftarvcd (lave. 

Object. 29. Slaves are necejfary as domejiicsj and 
handy craft/men, 

Anfw. 29. A flave handy-craftfman, performs 
not one third of the ordinary talk of a freeman. 
But white handy-craftfmen m>ay be increafed as 
wanted. Families entertain from 20 to 60 flaves, 
who do not the work of 5 or 6 hired fervants. 
The whole number of tradefmen, domeftics and 
others, not employed about fugar in the coloniesj 
may be eftimated at 150,000. Thefe being ef- 
fective people, and worked in the field, well fed, 
properly tafked and aflifted by cattle, might of 
themfelves fend more than the prefent quantity of 
fugar to market. This exchange from the houfe 
to the field, often takes place from caprice, as a 
puniflimentj and handy-craft flaves are occafion- 
ally fent in there. In any cafe, the exchange can- 
not encroach fo much on the rights of humanity, 
as the flave trade to Africa, 

Objed. 30. 



( 33 ) 

Objed. 30. No/upply can he found if the trade 
he abolijhed. 

Anfw. 30. This is anfwered (Objed. 27, 28, 
29.) Perhaps not more than one half of the ef- 
fedive flaves in our colonies is a6lually employed 
in the culture of the cane. There is then in the 
colonies a fufficient fupply of field flaves, till the 
encouragement of population Ihall have taken 
efl^ea. 

Objeift. 31* Slaves are happier than Englifi 
peafants, 

Anfw. 3t. Have peafants their eyes beat out, 
their bones broken, their flefh furrowed by the 
whip, their wives expofed to a bailiff's luflj are 
they, without remedy, confined to any, the mod 
unreafonable oppreflive mafter ? Are their wives 
and children taken from them, and fold to diftanc 
parts ? Do they cultivate barren fpots of ground 
on Sundays for food ? Is their daily allowance fix 
ounces of flour ? Have they no warm clothing; 
no linen to wrap their new-born babe in ? But it 
is endlefs to mark the difi^erence. The aflfertion 
infults common fenfe. 

Object. 32* Negroes are happier in the colonies 
than in. Africa, 

Anfw, 32. Pofitively denied. Do they ever 
off^er themfelves to be received into our flave 
fhips, to efcape from their wretched country ? Is 
there not a charm in the place of nativity, thac 
makes to the natives, Greenland more defirable 
than the poliflied parts of Europe ? Do they not 
icize every opportunity of rifmg againfl:, or ef- 

C caping 



( 34 ) • 

eaping from their opprelTors ? Do they not in- 
creafe in their own country, and decreafe in our 
more defirable colonies ? For one moment fup- 
pofe this true. For one that lives to fettle in the 
Weft-Indies, ten are killed, fuffocated, or loft to 
Africa. To make one man happy, muft ten be 
deftroyed ? But how can wretched Africa bear 
an annual lofs of 200,000 people in the prime of 
life, at which the Have trade and its confequences 
may be fairly eftimated, while happy Weft-In- 
dians (by the report of the African merchant, a 
writer on the planter's fide) require an annual fup- 
ply of 40,000, or nearly one tenth of the whole ? 
This objedlion is advanced for a particular purpofe, 
and is exaggerated. But we know certainly that little 
and very eafy labour fupplies them with food and" 
clothing in Africa ; unceafing labour ftarves them 
in the Weft-Indies. Indeed, how can they be faid 
to be happy in a country, who, in feveral iilands,. 
have not a fcrap of land allotted for their main- 
tenance, that can be turned to any other cul- 
ture ? 

Obje61:. ^2- '^^^ labour ofjlaves is cheaper than 
that of free men. 

Anfw, 33. Moftpofitively denied. The plant- 
er affirms, that it requires fix (laves to do the 
work of one peafant. The moft pinching allow- 
ance that can be given to a flave, and the loweft 
eftimate his rent and infurance can be laid at, m.uft 
amount to a much larger fum, than the bare handy 
labour of any peafant, without cattle and inftru- 
ments of huft)andry, could pofTibly perform. But 
it has been proved (See introduction) that the 
labour of a flave pays not for his coft and expenfe 
\n feafoning. A mafter muft fupply the death of 

a flave 



( 35 ) 

a Have at an enormous expenTe from the flave* 
marker. For a little better food and clothing, 
in return for a double talk of work, the peafant, 
without coft, breeds labourers in fucceffion for his 
employers. But when it is acknowledged that 
(laves do lefs work than peafants, (if they do it 
cheaper, then they earn lefs in the fame time, and 
have therefore lefs means to buy the comforts of 
life) how then can they be happier than Englifli 
peafants, for example, (Obje(ft. 31.) who earn fo 
much more by their labour, and therefore have 
more the means of indulgence ? 

Objeft. 34. Emancipation ofjlaves will ruin the 
majier. ,, 

Jnfw. 34. It is not even fuggefled, (See in- 
trodudion) till their improvement fliall have made 
it the mailer's intereft freely to beftow it. The 
fimple abolition of the trade, operating as a kind 
necelTity on the intereft and difcretion of the 
planter, and taking away this delufive lure from 
fhort-fighted avarice, will do every thing at pre- 
fent for the flave, that humanity requires. If any 
abufes remain, they may be regulated as difcover- 
ed, without injury to the mafter's property, or his 
juft authority over it. 

Objefl. ■^^^ If freed they will not work, 

Anfw. 35. This concluRon is drawn from the 
indolence of favages. But it is not propofed to 
free them, till they fhall have been civilized, and 
prepared for the government of law. To fuppofe 
that in fuclT circumftances they will not exert 
themfelves to procure the conveniences and com- 
forts of life, in the fame manner as other civilized 
C 2 people. 



( 36 ) 

people, is to deny them the attributes of humasF 
nature. But there are many particular inftances 
in th« colonies to contradid the fad; and in 
North America many planters have emancipated 
their Haves, and afterwards hired them to work 
by the day or piece, and found their advantage in 
it. The colliers in Scotland have been lately 
freed, to the mutual benefit of mafter and fer- 
vant. But indeed the objeftion is a mere con- 
jefture, for very few have ever been freed in the 
Weft-Indies, on which the obfervation could be 
properly made. 

Objed. 36. '^heft is lightly punijhed in the so*- 
lonies. 

Anfw, ^6. Not always, I have myfelf feen 
fuch inftances of puniftiment on bare fufpicion, as 
would make humanity Ihudder. But what muft, 
be the heart of that man, who can punifti with fe- 
verity a wretch, breaking a cane, or ftealing to 
fatisfy that hunger, which his parfimony has occa- 
iioned. Indeed the breaking of canes in my 
time, was a kind of high treafonj, to be puniftied 
with particular fe verity. 

Objed. 37. Planters are mifreprefentedi there- 
fore probably Guinea captains are Jo likewife, 

Anfw. 37. If the planter's own confcience con- 
demns him not, we bring not his charader inta 
the queftion. Without quoting names, cruel 
fads are alledged as conneded with flavery. But 
the reputation of planters and Guinea captains, 
are not touched on. There are good men in both 
lines. It is the oppreftion and murder af friend- 

lels 



( 37 ) 

lefs Africans, for whom the publick attention is 
claimed. 

Obje6l. 38. A ■profit is drawn from the Jlaves 
fold to foreigners. 

Anfw. 38. Here the intereft of the flave mer- 
chant and of the planter difagree. French 
planters particularly, not having much intereft- 
money to pay, and managing their own planta- 
tions, can allot more of their produce to the 
increafe of their flock, and give higher prices 
than our planters are willing to fpare from their 
own perfonal expenfes. The French planter does 
not any more than the Englifh make an ordinary 
intereft of his money by the purchafe of new 
ilaves ; but he prefers this method of appropriat- 
ing his income to that of fpending it on his own 
perfonal indulgencies, 

Objed. 39. If profitable for the French to luy^ 
-why not for Us ^ 

Anfw^ 2g. The French iJlands being more 
fertile than ours, can bear a more expenfive culti- 
vation; and their flaves being better fed and 
clothed, though unproduftive, are not fo much fo 
as our flaves. Of 800,000 flaves imported into 
St. Domingo in 96 years preceding 1774, there 
remained 140,000 Creoles, or one Creole from 
fix Africans. Our whole number of Creoles would 
not be perhaps in the proportion of one from i2 
Africans imported into our colonies. 

Obje6b. 40. The French having ?w longer a com- 
petition with us, will buy their ^fiaves cheap if we 
abandon the trade, 

C 3 Anfw» 



( 3^ ) 

• Jnfw. 40. In all fettled trades the profit foon 
becomes to be nearly equally diftributed among 
all thofe who are concerned in it. When an 
article has once fettled at a certain price, it can 
hardly ever be reduced back to its original coft, 
even when that circumilance is removed, which 
firft occafioned the rife. The tax on glafs is faid 
to have been doubled on the confumer. Repeal 
the tax, the price would not be diminifhed in 
proportion. Slaves, befides the expenfes of the Ihip, 
which are £ 8 more, now cod in goods, on the 
coaft of Africa, at a medium about £ 17. PaiTmg 
through a variety of hands from the inland coun- 
tries, in each of which a profit muft be left, any 
redu£lion of price on the coaft muft make (laves 
a loiing bargain, therefore the redu6lion of the 
price will counterbalance the want of competition, 
A manufaflurer, who lofes part of his cuftomers, 
produces goods only fufficient to fupply his leiTen- 
ed demand, and muft try to lay a higher price on 
them, to make up for the lofs of his former trade. 
But if we can lliew that the (lave trade is at beft 
precarious, and often a lofing trade, fhould the 
demand for (laves only change hands from us to 
the French, then will the French only extend a 
lofing trafFick. If the demand be leffened, then 
will the (lave-brokers quantum of profit be lefTen- 
ed, which the prefent ftate of the trade will not 
bear. This leaves us to conclude, that the French 
cannot draw great advantages from our abandon- 
ing the trade to them, 

Obferv. 41. If we give up the trade, the French 
will extend their jhare of it. 

Anfw. A,\, Suppofe that others fuccefsfully rob 
and murder on the highway, muft we join the 
lawlefs band. At prefent, the French buy many 

Haves 



( 39 ) 

flaves on the coaft from our brokers. Our goods 
pay for them, our factories accommodate them. 
Stop thefe channels, and the French cannot at 
once eafily fupply the goods, or procure the flaves. 
To us it is (by the acknowledgment of men well 
acquainted with the trade, when they have not a 
particular point to carry) a precarious, and on the 
whole, a lofing trade. Did one company carry it 
on, that company mud become bankrupt. But 
their prefent fhare has fo few allurements for their 
own merchants, that their government offers a 
bounty to'Englifh fliips to be employed in it under 
French papers for the fettlement of new lands in St. 
Domingo. Still the French planter complains of 
>the hardfhipimpofed on him by the advanced price 
■of flaves. Therefore, if the French extend their 
trade, they will extend their lofs, efpecially of fea- 
inen, which extraordinary as ours (fee int.) is, great* 
Jy exceeds our proportion. In the mean time, it is 
.a fubjecl of difcufiion for government, to deter- 
mine how far an eagernefs for lucre may be 
indulged in our traders, when dire6led to the 
improvement of a rival colony, with a view to 
the efliablifliment of a marine, though at the 
expenfe of the individual planters who pufli it 
on. In another point of view, if the fubjed: be 
properly propofed, may we not fuppofe the French 
as capable as we are of being influenced by fen- 
timents of humanity andjuftice? 

Obje(El. 42. 1'his abolition will raife dijputes on 
the coaft of Africa with the Fremh,, 

Anfw. 42. The limits of our fa(51:ories are 

€ftabliflied. Where the French hitherto have 

not been permitted to buy flaves, they cannot 

cxped to be indulged to the hindrance of our 

C 4 traffic 



X 40 ) 

traffic in wood, gums, ivory, gold, &c. From 
their want of faftories, they cannot extend their 
flave-trade. If the minds of the natives be once 
pre-occupied in favour of the barter trade, they 
will not allow flave-brokers to pafs, but at an 
expenfe, which the trade cannot bear. Perhaps, 
the Dutch, Danes, and Portuguefe, may be in- 
duced to follow our example. Then the Qave 
trade could not be carried on to any great extent. 

Obje(9:. 43. Slaves will hejmuggkd in from other 
ijlands to ours. 

Anjw. 43. Not at prefent, becaufe our plan- 
ters living in England cannot afford to give as 
high prices as foreigners give. Our planters now 
do not, or cannot, buy what they think the ne- 
ceffary fupplies at the prefent advanced price j 
and if they did buy them, according to Long, 
they would find them an unprofitable purchafe. 
Smuggled negroes cannot coft lefs than 20 per 
cent, above the prefent rate j how will our plan- 
ters be able to afford this ? But when fmuggling 
is difcovered, it may eafily be prevented 5 it is 
not now neceflary to fuppofe it. 

Objc<5b. 44. the trade is an extenjive market for 
our maniifaSfures. 

Anfw. 44. We fhould blufh to think, that in 
order to make it profitable, we are obliged to 
cheat the poor Africans with damaged goods, and 
falfe meafure ; (fee Newton's Thoughts on Slave- 
trade). Every man who argues for fuch a trade, 
argues for the bafeft treachery and fraud that ever 
came to the gallows. If tnis trade were (topped, 
our prefent fair trade in the ftaple commodities of 

Africa^ 



( 41 ) 

Africa, might be indefinitely extended. The 
whole export is eftimated within £ 800,000 col- 
le(5ted from a number of adventurers, often as the 
laft pUih, in hopes of a lucky hir, like a ticket 
in the lottery, to fave them from bankruptcy. 
Of this a confiderable part is bartered for ftaple 
articles, as wood, ivory, &c. and full one-third 
is faid to be Eaft-India goods. This eflimate is 
checked by the number of flaves purchafcd by our 
traders on the coait. That number annually is 
about 40,000, which, at £ 17 per head, is only 
£ 680,000. The expenfes of the voyage are £ 8 
more,which are charged on thofe fold to theplantcr 

Obje6l. 45. Guinea captainSifurgeonSy and officers, 
alone gain annually £ 50,000 in this trade , and one 
f articular dealer in Guinea Jhips made an immenfe 
fortune, 

Anfw. 45. Thefe are almoft all the people 
who make money in the trade. The captain and 
officers by their privilege flaves, who never die, 
and their commiflion on the cargo, muft always 
make money. The dealer in fhips alluded to, 
had a great number in the trade, and Hood his 
own infurer in a lucky period. 

Objeft. 46. Slaves once brought down from the 
inland parts of Africa muft he exported to prevent 
them from being murdered . 

Anfw. 46. Could the trade be flopped in a 
moment, the abolition ihould at once take place. 
But as numbers for many moncns muft continue 
to be brought down to the coaft, it will require 
fome management to conHne whtrir fale to our 
own illands, Ihould our pi inters be fo much 
perfuaded of their utilJcy, as co pat thcmfelves to 

fome 



( 4^ ) 

fbiTie inconveniencles in order to purchafe them, 
that they may not be pafled to foreigners. 

Obje£t. 47. Our planters have not credit to pur- 

chafe Jlaves. 

Anjw, 47. This mufl not be urged by any 
planter redding in England \ for if he thinks the 
pui-chafe profitable, why allots he not hisEu-ropean 
expenfes to this purpofe ? 

Objecl. 48. 'the trade is a nurfery for feamen. 

Anfw. 48. It is the very grave of feamen, de- 
{Vroying more than all our foreign trade befides, 
often lofing by deaths, incurable difeafes, &c. 
two-thirds of thofe employed in it •, and in the 
proportion of about eight to one of thofe loft in 
the barter or wood trade on the fame coaft. 

Object. 49. the Wefi-Indian trade is mofi profitable 
to this country. 

Anfw. 49. Then why is every fugar faftor 
trying all he can to lliake off his connexions 
with the fugar planters, or to confine them 
intirely to the fale of his fugars, and the fliipping 
of his ftores ? Can any planter now borrow money 
on his VV^eft-Indian property, either to improve it, 
or pay off preffing demands ? Has there not been 
more bankruptcies among capital houfes con-' 
neded with the fugar colonies, than in any other 
branch of trade ? Nay, it will be found, that 
the Have-trader himfelf complains of the tardinefs 
of the planter's payments, 

Objed. ^o^ 



( 43 ) 

Obje^V. 50. Slaves muft carry out dung in baf- 
kets, and hrhig canes home in bundles, 

Anfw. 50. Allot lands for grafs, and one hoiTe 
and care will do the work of forty Haves. 

Obje6t. 51. In crop timcj the whole gang, what- 
ever be its number^ muji be employed in making of 
the Jiigar. 

Anjw. 5r. Gangs of 220 flaves; others, not. 
amounting to 100, are kept to the fame work, 
with little difference in the quantity of fugar 
made, that may not be explained from other circum- 
ftancesj as the fituation of the miill for receiving the 
wind, &c. Here furely mufl be a wafte of labour 
in the more numerous gang; -becaufe the other 
plantation work might alfo be carried on fo as to 
make fewer flaves necelTary at other times. The 
fact is, 140 or \6o flaves often cultivate as much 
land, and fend as much fugar to market as 220 
flaves. Thefe lall- muft therefore be ill m^anaged. 

Object. 52. Slaves muft be kept at work, or under 
commands, from dawn till late at night. 

Anfw. 52. What purpofe this drawling method 
anfwers, but the indulgence of caprice of avarice 
ill underilood, cannot be difcovered. Give them 
a taflsL. They miay reft in the heat of the day, and 
do twice their prefent work. But they muft be 
better fed, and not be fent in the hour of reft two 
miles from home to pick grafs for catde. 

Object, ^2- Slaves cannot be affifted by cattle, 

Anfw, ^2>' The plough might be iifed in a 

great 



'( 44 ) 

great proportion of cane land. But cattle nriay 
at leafb afiift always in carrying out dung and 
bringing home canes, as is now done on particu- 
lar plantations. But fuch is the avarice for fugar, 
that no grafs lands are allotted for the fupport of 
cattle. Hence often at the beginning of a crop, 
the whole flock of cattle muft be renewed at 
any price. 

Objeil. 54. '^he ft ate of ftaves will not be im- 
f roved by the planting of •proviftons, 

Anjw. 54. The culture of provifions is eafier 
than that of canes. Plant them where canes pay 
not for the culture. Expence is faved \ the flaves 
are more plentifully fed, and the remaining cane 
land is better drefTcd, and becomes more pro- 
dudive. 

Gbjeft. c^t^. Provifions muft he hr ought from 
Europe and America to feed theftaves* 

Anfw. 55. This unnatural Hate anfwers neither 
the purpoie of profit or humanity. Slaves 
will never be well fed by grain brought from 
diftant parts. In bad years, when the planter is 
leaft able to purchafe it, it will be moft wanted. 
In the beft years, luxury will grudge the colt. 
In fad, Haves will never be well fed with fuch 
purchajfed grain, 

Objeft. 56. Slaves have fuffictent provifion 
ground, 

Anfw. 56. And, except in Jamaica, only Sun- 
day to work it. But it is not generally true, either 
that they have fufHcient ground, or that it is 

generally 



( 45 ) 

generally ufeful. A few prime (laves appropriate 
ithe beft parts, and weakly flaves are thrull out, 
or have their provifions ftolen. Hardly ever casi 
they fpare them to ripen. Provifion ground will 
be ufeful only, when made, equally with cane land, 
the work of the whole gang under the overfeer. 
Yet this moft neceffary part of plantation eco- 
nomy is almofl; wholly negledled, the manager 
thinking much once or twice in a feafon to 
examine into the ftate of it. 

Objecl. 57. Mofi excellent orders are fent out hy 
eifent 'planters, 

Anjw. 57. Whatever be their tenour, they are 
always interpreted by the cuftom of the colonies, 
which is for feverity and pinching. They are 
always fuppofed to mean. Send home as much 
fugar, and draw as few bills on them as poflible. 
A gentleman for fourteen years had defired the 
happinefs of his flaves, not revenue, to be con- 
fidered. But aflcing his managers why his flaves 
did not increafe under fuch orders, he received 
for anfwer, " they had been too hard worked, 
" and too ill fed ?" 

Objeft. 58. // is the planter* s inter ejl to treat 
his Jlaves well, 

AnJw. t^%. Then his pradice contradids his 
opinion^ Can it be his intereft to allow his flave 
neither food or reft ? Are fix ounces of flour, or 
five hours reft, fufEcient refrefliment for twenty- 
four hours ? Can it be his intereft to wear them 
out by inconfiderate fatigue, and in a few years 
be obliged repeatedly to renew his gang from the 
flave-market, rather than by difcrcet management 

to 



( 46 ) 

to enable them to carry on his work," and raife 
up without expenfe, fucceffive generations of 
labourers for his profit. 

Object. 59. ^he treal-ment of Jlaves Jhould he 
regulated. 

Anjw. 59. Except in a very few points it is 
almoft impofiibie for law to come between a 
mafter and his flave. A cruel or capricious man 
can teafe and wafte his Have in a thoufand ways 
that law cannot check, nor authority reach. The 
Danes, indeed, have an eiFeftual method in their 
iflands, which has been enforced in feveral parti- 
cular inftances. The governor divefbs a cruel 
mailer of the management of his property, and 
fets humane people over it: — a cuiiom truly 
worthy of imitation. 

Object. 60. Plantations cannot he f applied from 
the hirtbs. 

Anfw. 60. Nor will they while the flave-mar- 
ket is confidered as a better mode of recruiting 
them than that of population. But at prefent 
many increafe from the births in all the rice, 
tobacco, and fugar colonies, from the cafualty of 
a humane mailer, and eafy manager, a careful 
manager's wife, an attentive furgeon. This 
proves the (Irong biafs in nature to increafe where 
not checked by opprefiion ; and it would univer- 
fally be the cafe if humane and proper treatment 
were univerfal. 

Obje£l. 61. Population is checked hy an over 
proportion of males^ 

Anfw. 61. 



C 47 ) 

^dnfw. 6i. This over proportion takes place 
only among African flaves, who are not prolific 
in the colonies, not from natural caufes, but from 
chagrin, the want of neceffaries, and encourage- 
ment. But their proportion cannot at prefent be 
very confiderable, (fee introdu6l.) The natural 
proportion of the fexes takes place among the 
Creoles, whoare in fufficient numbers, if properly 
indulged and affifted, to overftock all our iflands 
in a few years, without diminifl:iing the prefent 
produce of fugar. 

Obje6V. 62. Slaves are not kidnapped hy our 
traders i but culprits or prijoners of war. 

Anfw. 62. We do not fay that any great pro- 
portion of them are now kidnapped by our 
traders ; becaufe as far as they can reach V(Aith 
their boats the country is either defolated by 
former depredations, or is under fuch police as 
makes it rather dangerous ; though it fometimes 
happens that we hear of a captain making what 
he calls a ftroke, fweeping away as many freemen 
as he can overpower with his crew. But we fay 
that the natives kidnap each other, and that 
criminals make but a very fmall proportion of 
the whole. That they are kidnapped is almoft 
the univerfal anfwer from thofe brought into our 
colonies •, nor can the numbers brought down to 
the coaft be accounted for in any other manner. 
But fuppofe them culprits or prifoners of war, are 
we then the executioners for African tyrants, or 
African judges ? Are we to punifh unfortunate 
wretches by the thoufand deaths endured in our 
flave fhips ? Offer a Guinea captain, condemned 
for murdering his crew or his flaves, his life, on 
condition of bein^ fettered and treated as a flave 



in 



C 48 ) 

in the pafTage to the Weft-Indies, he would run fof 
refuge to the gallows. Moore mentions a free ne- 
groe offered to him for fale for ftealing a tobacco 
pipe. If prifoners of war may be enflaved, why fend 
we not our flave-traders to attend the Turkilh and 
Ruffian armies, and provide ourfelves there ? It 
will be as juft and proper, as to ftir up wars in 
Africa for the purpofe of making Haves. 

Objeft. 6^. Britain produces annually 2000 
culprits. 'The negroe countries are four times as large^ 
^hey therefore may fup^ly annually 80,000 culprits, 

Anjw, d';^. This fuppofes Africa equally civi*- 
lized with Britain ; for crimes are the offspring of 
civilization. Crimes exift not among favages. 
There muft be laws and police to which they are 
to be referred. This, therefore, if true, cuts off 
another affertion, that the Africans are brutilh. 
But how does our method of colleding flaves on 
the coaft agree with this notion ? Our traders 
fhould demand a certificate of the flave's fentence, 
left he take away an innocent perfon. The faCl 
is, among imported (laves there exifts no appear- 
ance of culprits : fome are young girls not grown 
up; many boys under 14 years: they generally 
affirm themfelves to have been kidnapped. If 
criminals, fome of their old practices would now 
and then break out ; but they are quiet inoffenfive 
people, guilty only of brooding over their unhap- 
py ftate, or of ftealing from a niggardly mafter 
to keep themfelves from dying of hunger. 

Obje£l. 64. l!hey are the children of women kept 
for breeding flaves. 

Anfw. 64. Then they would be fold when 

children \ 



( 49 ) 

children ; but the flave cargoes confifl of all ages 
of both Cexes, which have been kidnapped or en- 
ilaved in wars made on purpofe to accommodate 
the dealers in this horrid traffick. 

Obje6t. 6^. The king ofDahomy murders hispeO'^ 
pie for his amufement^ therefore we may traffick in 
flaves. 

Anfw. 6^. This monfter, from Tuperftition, fa- 
crifices his own people, and from avarice, enfiaves 
and fells others. But the one paflion intermeddles 
not with the exertion of the other. Their opera- 
tions are diftinft. His avarice is encouraged by our 
traders, and renders numbers of his people wretch- 
ed, in addition to thofe lefs unhappy people, who 
are the vidims of his cruelty. By checking this in- 
human trade, we fhould annihilate one half of the 
evil; by profecuting it, we are guilty of all the 
ills produced by it, and encourage his favage dif- 
pofition. 

Objeft. 66. The flaves are hought in open markety 
and the brokers will not difclofe any particulars refpe£f^ ' 
ing their captivity., 

Anfw. 66. Do not our traders wink with their 
eyes, and avoid any clofe inquiry? But if they be 
ignorant how they are originally procured in the 
land parts, how come they fo well acquainted with 
the circumftances of their being the children of 
flave breeders, prifoners of war, and culprits ? In- 
deed to call them culprits, contradids another 
plea that they are brutiili -, for among favages there 
can be no culprits. Society muft be well advan- 
ced before a man can be confidered as criminal, 
and an objed of juftice. 

D Objecl:. 67. 



( so ) 

Objeft. 67. Slaves are well cared for on hoard 
thejlavejhifs, and lofe not above four in an hundred, 
in the pajfage from Africa to the JVeJi- Indies, 

Anfw. 6y. Where fix men are flowed in the 
place of one, which is the difference between a 
flave-fhip and a tranfport for carrying troops, it 
is impolTible that the wretches can be well cared 
for. But for this, fee Mr. Newton and Mr. Fal- 
conbridge's accounts of their horrid flate. It 
may have pofTibly happened, that not more than 
fonr in an hundred, might in a particular cafe 
have been lofl in the pafTage. But what is this 
to the many inftances v^rhere an half, or even two- 
thirds, have been lofb before the fhip had reached 
the Weft-Indies ? If fo few be lofl, how comes 
it that a flave-trader cannot get infurance in Lon- 
don on his flaves at any rate ; or that thofe, who 
in one or two inftances under-wrote flaves at 25 
per cent, premium, refufed to continue the ad- 
vantageous bargain ^ 

Objeft. 68. 'I'hey are encouraged to rear children, 
and will not, 

Anfiv. 68. Can they rear them for him, who 
demands bricks v/ithout ftrav/, that they may be 
opprefTed at his caprice ? How few are put in the 
Hate, have food, clothes, or necefTaries, to en- 
courage them, or are indulged when pregnant, 
or when nurfes ? Can a young fingle lad, or 
a batchelor manager, as is now the growing cuf- 
tom to emjploy on plantations, have that fellow- 
feeling and fympathy with a child-bearing woman, 
that may be expedVed in a tender-hearted matron? 
I can recoiled but one cafe, where flaves have 
increaied under a batchelor. There fom^e pecu- 
liarly 



{ 5< ) ■ 

liarly favourable circumflances take place. Thofe 
acquainted with the ufual treatment of flaves, 
may wonder how fo many children are reared, 
rather than fo few. Indeed, the ordinary caufes 
of the increafe of Haves on particular plantations, 
fliew how eafily population may be promoted. 

Objed. 6g. Negroe women are profligate^ and 
deftroy their fruit, 

Anjw. 6^. This takes place among none but 
perhaps a few, that are fuffcred to work, or hire 
themfelves out among feamen, 

Objed. 70. 1'he numher of Creoles, where the 
fexes only are in due proportiony is not equal to the 
Jwpport of the prefent flock. 

Anfv. 70* Denied, fee Introdudion. Our 
Creoles exceed two-thirds of our prefent number 
of flaves ; but not more than two-thirds of the 
whole are employed in the culture of fugar, and 
that in a proportion, which Long fays, they may 
continue to increafe from the births. Every other 
department may eafily be fupplied by white men 
or free negroes, and mulattoes. It muft not be 
lofh fight of, that few African women breed, and 
that no new flaves repay their coft, expenfe, and 
lofs in feafoning. We cannot, therefore, fuppofe 
any future progeny of thefe capable of repaying 
the expenfe of fuch a purchafej and can expedt 
a profitable recruit only from Creoles. But there 
are infbances in every colony of humane treatment 
aftually producing an increafe. This will uni- 
verfally be the cafe, when the pradice is uni^ 
verfal. 

D 2 " Objed. 71. 



( 52 ) 

Obje£l. 71' Unhealthy fituations require fupplies, 

Anjw. 71. Can this be urged by any man pre- 
tending to humanity or difcretion. Abandon 
the cultivation of the cane, rather than fport with 
a brother's life. The unhealthinefs of mines, &c. 
cannot be pleaded here, becaufe worked by vo- 
lunteers. But no plantation that requires fupplies 
can repay the expenfe. We may ftjU afk. Has 
every proper meafure been adapted for the parti- 
cular fituation ? Are the huts fixed in a dry 
airy fpot ? Are the (laves plentifully fed, dif- 
creetly worked, well defended with clothes againfl; 
damps, or wet weather. Few fituations are to 
be found that may not be corre6led, fo as that 
the human conftitution fliall adapt itfelf to it. 
But their manner of living muft be that of proper 
inhabitants, not artificial, as in a garrifon, or 
iifed as beafts of burden, and pretended to be 
fed with grain brought from other quarters of 
the globe. 

Obje6l. 72. Slavery is not unlawful , the bible ah 
lows of it, 

Anfw. 72. The ufe of money is not unlawful. 
But it is unlawful to rob on the highway to pro- 
cure it. We meddle not with flavery, but with 
the ordinary means of procuring flaves. We fay 
men ought not to go to the coaft of Africa to 
kidnap the natives, or to encourage them to kid- 
nap each others or to bribe them with baubles 
to go to war, to fight with and enflave each 
other J to turn every trefpafs into a caufe for en- 
Having ; to fubjecl the unfortunate wretches to 
the miferies of a Weft-Indian voyage ; to fell 

thenr^ 



C S3 ) 

jLhem to be half-flarved, hard worked, and ill 
treated. 

Chrlftianity obliges us to inftruft and inform 
the mind. Social liberty is the genuine confe- 
quence of improvement. Therefore we may fay, 
that the Chriftian privilege favours liberty 3 and, 
while it avoids making any fudden change in 
eftablilhed cuftoms, it naturally tends towards it. 

Objed. 73. 'The Jezvs were permitted to hold 
Jlaves^ 

Anjw. 73. They might keep the children of 
the heathen, and their pofterity, flaves. But 
they were enjoined to treat them well ; inftru6t 
them in their religion, and make them partakers 
of their religion and laws. The flaves were fup- 
plied with food and clothing from their fix days 
labour, without being forced to work for this on 
Sabbath. If the mailer ftruck out but a tooth, 
the flave was to be free. If he took a maid-fer- 
vant to his bed, or gave her to his fon, {he had 
the privilege of a wife, and could not be fold. 
We muft imitate the example of the Jews, if we 
claim their permiffion of holding flaves. But by 
the coming of our Saviour, all men are become 
brethren. A Jew could hold a Jew in fervice 
only for fix years, and only fuch as were too poor 
to maintain themfelves. We make the Africans 
poor by enflaving theni. But we fliould keep 
them flaves only for fix y.ears, and then difmifs 
them well fupplied with necefl^aries. Farther, the 
Jews themfelves were numerous in a fmall coun- 
try. Their flaves muft, therefore, have been few. 
Among thofe vvho returned from their captivity, 
there was but one flave to fix Jews ; perhaps one 
fervant to each family. 

Objed, 74. 



( 54 ) 

Obje6t. 74. Slavery renders opprejjlon necejfary. 
See Niger in Public Advertijer of March 12. 

Anjw. 74. But what except avarice renders 
flavery necelTary j and can oppreffion, if it "be the 
necelTary confequence of a vice, be in any degree 
or Ihape vindicated ? Murder is often the necef- 
fary confequence of paffion. Is murder therefore 
to be excufed ? What an opening is here for 
crimes and villany of every fort. 

Objeft. 75. Free degrees and mulattoes do not 
increaje from the hirths, 

Anfw. 75. It is not true, many inftances to 
the contrary might be produced. But it is alfo 
true, that no race or rank of men will continue 
to increafe, except where the means of living are 
in abundance. Thofe here defcribed, are exceed- 
ingly fettered between white men on the one 
iide, and flaves on the other, for the means of 
fubfiftence. Therefore they cannot expand them- 
felves. It is fo with the native white people in 
St. Kitt's 3 their marriages are prolific, but from 
the want of fubfiftence, the old families have in- 
fenfibly vanifhed, and every year takes from the 
population of the colony. 

Objeft. 76. A compenfation muft he made to 
Planters for 60 millions of property, which the abo- 
lition of the Jlave-trade will annihilate. 

Anfw. 76. It will be time enough to think of 
compenfation when the lofs has been fuftained. 
Even then I ihould proteft againft the claims of 
fuch Weft-India appraifements as I have been 

acquainted 



( 5^ ) 

acquainted with. Yet no planter, not already- 
ruined, will fuffer by the abolition. 

Compenfation would defeat every purpofe 
aimed, at, for procuring good treatment to the 
flaves. Many Planters find their affairs irreco- 
verable. If they hurry not on their fate, from the 
hopes of compenfation, at leaft they will be care- 
lefs of the iflue. Their former inconfiderate con- 
du6t will continue, perhaps will be fharpened, to 
enhance their demand. 

If there be a Planter, who has fed his flaves 
well, and worked them confiderately, has in- 
dulged them wich proper reft, has clothed them 
properly, has furniOied necefTaries for the encou- 
ragement of population, has lived with them, has 
treated them as fellovz-creatures, has made the 
fupport of his plantation his prime objed:, and 
been contented with that revenue which this at- 
tention would admit of; in the name of juftice 
let him be liberally compenfated. But fuch a 
charader fo circumftanced, fo unfucoefsful, is not 
to be found. The need of compenfation is a fure 
proof he deferves it not. Again, let it be ob- 
lerved, that he claims this compenfation becaufe 
he is prevented from burying African flaves ; 
which, even in Long's opinion, would only more 
involve him. 

But if a man has feparated himfelf from his 
property, has drawn a revenue to fupport at a 
diilance an expenfive eftablilhment, from a pro- 
perty not equal to fuch demands, or which per- 
haps itfelf wanted fiipplies; if, to force out this 
revenue, his half-ltarved flaves have been incef- 
fantly worked ; if necefTaries for the encourage- 
ment of population have been withheld, and the 
affiftance of cattle has been refufed j let not this 
man come to government to make up a lofs arif- 

incy 



( S6 ) 

ing from the cravings of luxury, or the inconfi- 
derate ufe of power. In this clafs will be found 
every Planter who has ruined himfelf by fpecu- 
lating in fugar plantations. Mere adventurers 
cannot claim compenfationj for they are where 
they fet out. Their creditors have no claim i for 
they took the chance of their fuccefs. 

Object. 77. ^he trade Jhould he regulated, not 
cholijhed. 

Anfw. 'I'-j, Regulate murder as you pleafe, it 
ftill remains murder. Suppofe a regulation. It 
muft check the mode of loading the {lave-fhips. 
But at prefent, with every contrivance in the 
Ihipmafter's power, it is on the whole a lofing- 
trade i it depending on circumilances, whether a 
particular fhip makes a faving voyage. Regula- 
tions which Ihall make it more expenfive, will 
make that lofs certain, which is now contingent. 
Therefore, while holding out indulgence, they 
will occafion a greater lofs, than the abrupt abo- 
lition of it. 

But the regulations will be accepted with a 
defign to evade them. In this cafe, the Legifla- 
ture becomes anfwerable for the oppreflion and 
murder connected with this trade. 

CONCLUSION. 

I F the fubjed be difcufied, the trade will be 
found fo iniquitous, that it cannot be left on its 
prefent footing, or be pofiibly regulated. Let the 
abolition then take place on the broad bafis of 
humanity, juftice, and found policy. All parti- 
cular circumftances will eafily accommodate them- 



felves to the new fituation of things. 



POST- 



( 57 ) 



POSTSCRIPT. 

I SHOULD be ungrateful to pafs over the 
candour of the author of the Confiderations on 
Emancipation, &c. to myfelf. He has laid me 
under very great obligations, by flepping forward 
to vindicate my reputation from the many horrid 
charges brought againft me by my former adver- 
faries -, efpecially, for clearing me of the crime of 
cruelty to my ilaves, which has been circulated 
in every company where flavery has been agitated, 
and mentioned with as much abhorrence, as if no 
man befides me had been unfeeling in his treat- 
ment. He will allow me to obferve, that that 
irritation, which he makes the alloy of my tem- 
per, cannot be intolerable, if it permits me to 
be afFedionate in my family, eafy to my flaves, 
and charitable to the poor; for to thefe the natu- 
ral temper is leaft under difguife. He indeed 
takes out the fting, by charging my difputes to 
the pique and prejudice of my enemies. I may 
add, among thofe praifed in my Effay, are fome, 
who were then my inveterate foes. He will alfo 
indulge me in correfting his miftake concerning 
the M. Reviewers. Far from cenfuring injurious 
epithets in my v^ritings, they blamed their want 
of warmth. From their late condu6l I have only 
learned, that to utter falfe criminal libels againft 
Mr. R, in low vulgar language, is decent mode- 
rate condu6l in his adverfaries ; but it is abufe 
for him to ufe the moft cautious terms in hi^ 
own vindication. 

But p. 36. I am charged with mifreprefentation. 
If he will perufe my Effay, he will fee I prevent 
the conclufion of indifcriminate ill-treatment of 

E flaves, 



( ss ) 

flaves, by obferving, that arbitrary power in tht 
mafter has not all thofe ill confequences with 
which fenfibility is apt to charge it. And if this, 
and many paffages of like import, be not fuffi- 
cient to excufe me, I cheerfully embrace this 
opportunity of declaring, that the nature of fla- 
very, not the difpofition of the mafter, is charge- 
able with the enormities connedted with this 
debafing ftate. But he allaws that there is occa- 
fion for cenfure, and that my book contains many 
truths, which he wifhes, for the honour of hu- 
man nature, he could deny. Indeed, if it were 
not an invidious tafk, every circumfbance in it 
might be referred to individuals, probably well 
known to this gentleman, I hope this is the laft 
time I fhall have occafion to mention myfelf, on 
a fubjecft, that ought not to be blended with the 
reputation of its advocates. But as 1 am tired 
of being obliged to carry about with me proofs 
of the innocency of my charader, to vindicate it 
from the calumny caft upon it in every company, 
where my private intereft can be hurt, or the 
caufe in which I am engaged, injured ; and as 
this work may come into hands, which thefe 
Confiderations may not reach, I truft I fhall ftand 
excufed with the public for inferting from them 
here my own eulogium, mixed as it is with irri- 
tation of temper, and mifreprefentation of fads. 



EXTRACT 



( S9 ) 

Extract from considerations on 

the Emancipatioa of Negroes, and on the Abo- 
lition of the Slave Trade, by a Weft-Indiai 
Planter, page 34, &c. 

" HAVING introduced the name of this 
« writer, (Mr. Ramfay) without whofe labours 
<' the fubjeft of flavery would not probably have 
" been fo much agitated at this day, I cannot dif- 
«' mifs him without farther mention, as well to 
" refcue his charafter from unmerited reproach, as 
*' to caution his readers againfl: the exaggerations 
«' of his pen. As a hufband and father he was 
'* affedtionate and provident. As a paftor, de- 
** cent, pious, temperate, and exemplary. As a 
" mafter of flaves, fo far was he from indulging 
** in the exercife of cruelty, that he was remark- 
" ably abftemious in the ufe of difcipline, even on 
" neceflary occafions. He was charitable, to the 
" poor, and pun6tual in his pecuniary tranfadlions* 
*^ His good qualities were many •, but at the fame 
'' time, his temper was prone to irritation ; and if 
** not abfolutely vindictive, he was at lead ex- 
" tremely liberal in the ufe of injurious epithets, 
" as appears from his writings, which have drawn 
" on him the correction of the learned Journalifl, 
" under whofe review they have palTed, though 
^^ otherwife fufficiently difpofed to favour his 
*' caufe. 

" Unfortunately his book was written during 
*' a ftate of warfare with his parifhioners j a con- 
** teft unprovoked, it muft be allowed by any a6t 
" on his part, inconfiftent with the charafterofa 
*' good man, but fuggefted by pique, and profe- 
«' cuted by party, on the other fide. However, he 
" has combined his own injuries with the inju- 

" ries 



( 6o ) 

'f riesof the {laves, and given fcope ta his refenN 
«' ment, while he appears an advocaiie in the caufe 
*' of hunrianity. That his book contains a great 
" many truths, I willi, for the honour of human 
*' nature, I could deny. Where authority exifts, 
*' it is too apt to be abufed. Slavery therefore 
** neceflarily fuppofes fuch a flate of oppreflion 
*' and confequent abafement, as is unpradifed 
*' among the free orders of fociety, and for a good 
" reafon, becaufe it is untolerated. But to fiip- 
" pofe thofe opprefiions either fo frequent, or fe- 
" vere as they are charged to be, would certainly 
*f be to give too great a degree of credit to his 
'* mifreprefentations,'* 

N. B. Page 40, he allows with me that French 
flaves are better clothed and better fed than Eng- 
lilh flaves j ^ truth, which has been difputed wit|^ 

me.. 



F I N I 



