ret> >5S7$^ *&.y 



f ' 



THE CRUEL NATURE 




INJURIOUS EFFECTS 



THE FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE, 



REPRESENTED IN 



A LETTER. 



ADDRESSED TO THE 



RIGHT HON. LORD BROUGHAM AND VAUX, 



By THOMAS ROBERTS, 

Baptist Minister. 



BRISTOL: 

PRINTED AT THE MIRROR OFFICE BY JOHN TAYLOR, 

1836, 






if 






TO THE 



RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD BROUGHAM 
AND VAUX. 

My Lord, 

This letter will place before you a description of the 
present state of the foreign slave trade, and of slavery itself 
as existing in Brazil and the Southern States of North 
America. The annihilation of this curse in every part of 
the world is an object which has long been deeply engraven 
on your heart. It is inseparable from your best feelings, 
and its discussion has distinguished your talents and your 
benevolence in and out of the Senate, both as a Statesman 
and a Philanthropist. 

Providence has conferred on you the imperishable honour 
of having taken the lead in the completion of the good work 
of negro emancipation in the British Colonies, which the 
estimable Wilberforce had commenced, and for the accom- 
plishment of which he laboured many years with unabated 
ardour and indefatigable toil. 

This is my apology, my Lord, for presuming to address 
this letter to you. 

When the African slave trade was made illegal by the 
British Legislature, it was stated by Mr. Dundas, in the 
House of Commons, " that but little was done by the 
passing of that bill, and freedom was but very partially 
conferred on the negroes, unless other nations would 
relinquish the inhuman traffic, and slavery itself 
be annihilated in our own colonial possessions." The 
people of England have recently expressed a similar 
opinion, and by the most persevering efforts have emanci- 
pated the British Colonies, in a manner equally distin- 
guished by its justice to the planter, and its compassion 
to the slave. 



When the recent bill for the liberation of the negroes in 
our dominions had received the royal assent, its most 
zealous supporters acted as if they thought slavery had 
universally ceased. The numerous societies organized in 
this kingdom to overthrow the system in our Colonies were 
dissolved ; and all their members (comparatively with few 
exceptions), conducted themselves as if they then supposed 
slavery either to be ended, or that it existed to so small a 
degree, and under such foreign sanction, as to render it 
untangible by British influence. 

This apprehension, however, has proved to be extremely 
erroneous. The slave trade is carried on at present in 
Foreign Colonies, with ceaseless perseverance, and is 
increasing so far as to exceed, both in horror and in 
crime, this traffic even at the very period when England, 
united to other nations, gave it her legal sanction. 

The ships of his Britannic Majesty are constantly cap- 
turing large slave vessels, each containing from three 
hundred to seven hundred negroes, and they are frequently 
destroying others, whose living cargoes have been but just 
previously landed. To such a degree of audacity have the 
slave dealers in Cuba arrived, that they have not only armed 
their vessels employed in this infamous trade, deter- 
mined to protect it by force, but they have offered large 
pecuniary rewards to persons who would assassinate any 
of our commanders commissioned to capture the slave 
ships. 

The failure of the commercial expedition sent from 
Liverpool to Africa, was caused in a very considerable 
degree by the zeal with which the slave trade is carried 
on between the people of the interior and the European 
dealers on the coast. Its profits are so great as to render 
the Chiefs indifferent to the valuable productions of that 
country, as articles of commerce. 

From this arises nearly all the wars and bloodshed 
between the numerous nations on that continent. They 
are commenced solely with the design of obtaining 
prisoners, who are afterwards sold as slaves to the 
European dealers, and to such a degree does this 



traffic engross the attention of the Africans, that the 
gentlemen connected with that expedition declare that 
it was impossible to attach the superior natives to any 
trade but that in human beings. 

It appears that from January the 1st, 1820, to the end 
of the year 1834, a period of only fourteen years, nearly 
one million wretched victims were dragged from their native 
land and conveyed to Brazil alone. A number exceeding 
the whole of the slaves liberated in the English Colonies 
by almost two hundred thousand. In the short space of 
one year fifteen thousand negroes were imported from 
Africa into the Havannah, a small port in the island 
of Cuba. Not less than one hundred thousand are taken 
annually from the African coast, and conveyed to dif- 
ferent destinations. The average number of those who 
die on the passage amounts to ten out of each hundred, so 
that the lives of not less than ten thousand human beings 
are yearly sacrificed in the vessels employed in the foreign 
slave trade. The average number of ships which sail 
annually from Cuba amounts to almost fifty, and which 
return with their enslaved cargoes to that island. The 
generality of these vessels commit piracy on the outward 
bound passage, plundering merchant ships, and frequently 
murdering the crews. In every African river where slaves 
can be obtained, these vessels may be constantly seen 
receiving and sailing with them from thence to the Cuba 
and Brazilian shores. 

This inhuman traffic has subjected at this time upwards 
of six millions of our fellow-creatures to the most abject 
and cruel bondage. In the Southern States of America, 
the slave population is stated to be full two millions. A 
still greater number exists in the Brazils. And although 
I am unable to state the exact census of other places, yet 
as the large island of Cuba, together with Martinique, 
Guadaloupe, Curacoa, St. Eustathius, St. Bartholomew, 
St. Croix, St. Thomas, Porto Rico, and the district called 
Surinam, on the continent of South America, are all culti- 
vated by slave labour, there cannot be less in these places 
than a million and half, which number is constantly 



increasing by slave ships importing their large and 
numerous cargoes. 

The horrible inhumanity connected with this infamous 
traffic is most revolting. Sometimes the African market 
is overstocked with negroes, and no ready sale for them 
can be obtained. Many may be refused by the European 
dealers on account of unsoundness. Under such circum- 
stances, for the sake of saving the expense of maintenance, 
the Chief to whom the slaves belong, will order all 
the deformed, diseased, debilitated, maimed, or aged, 
to be separated from those who are healthy. He then 
commands them to be pinioned, chained together, and 
driven to the banks of the river, where a heavy weight is 
affixed to the necks of some, others are tied back to back, 
rowed into the middle of the stream, and thrown over- 
board, by which barbarous custom hundreds of human 
beings are annually murdered. The late Mr. Richard 
Lander, traveller in that country, resided for a considerable 
time near to one of the African slave markets, and was an 
eye witness of this brutal process. 

The negroes, when purchased by the European dealers, 
are instantly marked with the initials of the person's name 
to whom they may be consigned. The letters are generally 
stamped on their naked breasts with a hot iron. During 
the voyage to Cuba, Brazil, and other places of destination, 
the scene of horror surpasses the utmost effort of descrip- 
tion. It far exceeds any account of which we were 
accustomed to be informed at the time the English were 
engaged in this traffic. The vessels employed in this 
infernal trade are unregulated either as to size or burthen. 
The space allotted to the negroes in a slave ship is less 
than three feet in height, so that when seated they are 
incapable of raising their bodies to an upright posture. 
In this confined situation are stowed victims of all ages, 
and of both sexes. Men torn from their wives, women 
from their husbands and children, girls from their mothers, 
boys from their fathers, and females with infants at their 
breasts, all in a state of nudity, and crowded together 
in an immense mass of filth, corruption, and putrid air. 



In a vessel that contains several hundred negroes in this 
state, contagious diseases frequently occur, which merci- 
fully end the existence of many of the victims, and those 
on whom death has not seized, if infected are ordered to 
be thrown overboard, to prevent the malady spreading 
amongst such of them as are still in health. The men are 
chained in pairs, and as death is constantly occurring, 
living bodies are frequently found rivetted to those which 
are dead and putrid. In the murderous hold of a slave ship, 
it is no uncommon occurrence for women to be bearing 
children, and men to be dying by their side. The wretched 
slaves for want of air are constantly bathed in hot per- 
spiration, and parched with extreme thirst, even to foaming, 
whilst others are in different stages of suffocation and 
struggling with the agonies of death. Sometimes the 
negroes will strangle those to whom they are chained for 
the sake of obtaining room to breathe. When admitted 
on deck for air, although they are locked in pairs, if 
opportunity offers, with the view of ending their sufferings, 
they will jump overboard and perish in the sea. 

The ruffians who command these slave ships will 
attempt to silence the heart rending moanings, and to 
chase away the sullen despondency of their victims by 
the application of the lash to their naked bodies. When 
a British cruizer chases a slaver, it is no uncommon thing 
for the brutal captain to throw his cargo overboard. One 
of these inhuman wretches when chased, enclosed twelve 
negroes in as many casks, and threw them into the sea, to 
influence the British commander to slacken sail to save 
them, and consequently to afford the slave ship an oppor- 
tunity of escaping with the rest of the cargo. Another 
of these miscreants, when recently captured by an English 
cruizer, expressed his deep regret for not having thrown 
all the slaves overboard, as he was fully insured. Surely 
the shrieks, and the lamentations, the groans, and the 
blows, the stripes, and the diseases, the suffocations, and 
the varied cruelties, with the wholesale murders, which 
are constantly occurring in slave vessels, cannot be 
generally known, or I should think that those Govern- 



c> 



ments, which at present sanction, or at least do nothing to 
prevent this nefarious traffic, would be induced to annihi- 
late it, and thus remove the sanguinary reproach from 
the nations over which they preside. 

The slaves, who survive the voyage from Africa to the 
places of their destination, enter immediately on a life of 
the deepest suffering. The disembarkation of the negroes 
in South America presents a most fearful scene. Hun- 
dreds of miserable victims torn for ever from their relatives 
and their native shore, landed in a strange country, look 
around them with the greatest dread and amazement. 
They are then driven like beasts to the market, urged on 
only by the cracking of whips and severe stripes. The 
sale commences in the presence of planters and mine 
owners, when every tie of relationship is disregarded, an 
irrecoverable separation of the nearest kindred ensues, 
which is announced at the close of the sale by the last 
embraces, the loud wai lings and piercing shrieks of those 
victims, who are being separated from the clinging and 
grasp of each other by the whips of the unfeeling drivers. 

Some are purchased to labour in the mines, others 
to cultivate the lands. The greatness of their number, and 
that rapidly increasing by constant and large importations 
from Africa, renders the life of a slave in Brazil of little 
consideration to his owner. Cruelty is exercised, and 
injury is inflicted on the negro without limitation, so that 
not even the principle of self-interest, which protects the 
life of a beast, affords these wretched creatures any shelter 
from the most barbarous treatment. They are to be seen 
in every direction, deformed by labour, wounded and 
maimed by blows, scarred and lacerated with stripes, even 
to wounds and ulceration, diseased and emaciated with 
hunger or bad food, and not unfrequently expiring in 
agonies by the sides of the road. So tremendous is the 
suffering which slaves endure in Brazil, that Dr. Walsh, 
who, for a considerable time, filled an official situation 
there, has stated that the slaves to be delivered from 
their misery daily commit suicide to an almost incredible 
degree. 



Their bodies may be frequently seen floating in the river, 
or left by the tide on the strand, without attracting any 
notice or exciting the least commiseration. Mothers 
commit infanticide, whilst others destroy their children 
before they are born, to save them from that horrid yoke 
which their parents are compelled to endure. These 
statements, my Lord, are not fictitious, but facts, resting 
on the indubitable authority of respectable witnesses, 
who have themselves beheld slavery in the whole of 
its varied stages, accompanied with all its horror, cruelty, 
and blood. 

It is, indeed, lamentable to reflect, that such a system 
can be found to exist in the world, but it is indescribably 
infamous that this murderous traffic should be carried on 
to a great degree by the means of British capital. Mr. 
Innes, in an admirable letter to Lord Glenelg, proves 
the disgraceful fact. The English mercantile agents at 
Rio are constantly receiving goods from this country in 
British vessels, which they reship in a foreign slaver, 
whose captain or owner is authorized to barter on 
the African coast for human beings, from thence he 
returns to Brazil with his cargo to the same agents, 
who cause the slaves to be sold, and the profit to be 
be paid to the merchants residing in this country. It is by 
no means an uncommon occurrence, for vessels cleared 
out from a British port professedly for South America, 
and, although, at the risk of the loss of insurance, to pro- 
ceed from England direct to the Coast of Africa, where 
they barter their freight for slaves, and sail from thence 
with them to the very port for which the ship was at first 
cleared out at the English Custom-House. 

The same illegal and infamous means are used to support 
slavery in the Southern States of North America. British 
capital is known to import them from the Havannah 
through the Texas into those States. It is true that the 
slave trade is made illegal by American law, but this is 
evaded by vessels of small size and burthen, skulking up 
creeks and unfrequented rivers to land their cargoes, and 
then driving their victims to a great distance, profess that 



they are not newly imported, but are sent from one 
State to be sold in another. British subjects, who objected 
to purchase properties in our own Colonies, because they 
were emancipated, have recently bought estates at Porto 
Rico, and in the Southern parts of America, which are 
not only altogether cultivated by slave labour, but are 
constantly recruited by the slave trade. 

The cruelties inflicted on the enslaved population in the 
States of America surpass, if possible, those which 
are endured by them in Brazil. The two following facts 
of horror are selected from a thousand otl^ers of equal 
turpitude which might be stated, and will indisputably 
prove, that the owners of slaves in those States can inflict 
any cruelties on them, even to murder in its most revolting 
forms, and escape either altogether with impunity, or only 
by enduring a punishment every way disproportionate 
to the heinousness of their crime. 

An official document states, that an inhuman miscreant, 
by the name of Slater, was tried, for compelling one of his 
slaves to chop off the head of another of them with an axe, 
and then ordering the convulsed and bleeding body to be 
thrown into the water. This murder was committed in 
the middle of the day, in the open air, in the city of Charles- 
town, and for which the monster was only moderately 
fined. 

A venerable, opulent, and highly-respectable merchant, 
still residing in Bristol, was at the house of a slave-holder 
in America. He saw this man strike one of his negroes 
with the cow skin across the abdomen, which, being 
covered only with a very thin and half worn-out shirt, was 
so lacerated by the violence of the blow, as to lay open the 
part on which it was inflicted, so that some of the bowels 
of the slave protruded. The British merchant instantly 
remonstrated with the inhuman brute, and asked him why 
he so treated the negro ) did he not know that the poor 
creature had a soul to be saved equally with the rest of 
mankind ? The ruffian hoarsely replied, " I know he 
has not a soul, he is only a beast in an upright form." 
Whether the wounded slave died by this cruel treatment, 



the merchant did not learn, but he knew that his savage 
master was never called to answer for his ferocious 
conduct. 

The extensive existence of slavery in America, a country 
so professedly zealous for popular freedom, appears so 
great an anomaly, as to be to some persons truly inexpli- 
cable. On the most natural and universally conceded 
principle, however, this mystery can be explained. 
Extremes meet in their results, and generally produce 
similar effects. It is nothing uncommon to witness a 
ferocious democrat converted into an insufferable despot. 
The very men, who at the commencement of the first 
French revolution, were most vociferous in demanding 
that which they stiled " the rights of the people," soon 
became the most bloody tyrants after they had usurped 
the reins of power. The American cannot endure the 
sound of royalty, whilst he is charmed with the appearance 
of slavery. To him a King, a throne, a sceptre, are dis- 
gusting objects, but a slave ship and its cargo delight 
his inmost soul. He can fight for his own freedom, and 
when it is obtained, he will use it for the oppression 
of others. He will exultingly celebrate the jubilee 
of national liberty, and at the same time deliberately 
traffic in human beings. The sound of freedom is on 
his tongue, but the infliction of bondage reigns in his 
heart. Civil liberty and social happiness are frequently 
the objects of his praise, whilst to exist amidst scenes of 
misery and blood is the congenial atmosphere of his soul. 

The attachment to slavery so distinguishes the 
generality of the inhabitants in the Southern States, 
that not even the importance of maintaining a consistent 
profession of Christianity, can induce them to abandon 
this horrid state of society. Not only laymen publicly 
professing Christian principles, and members of large 
religious communities, but ministers of the gospel, and 
pastors of numerous congregations, will openly defend 
and practise this detestable system. They are known 
to buy and sell their fellow - creatures, to procure 
domestic servitude and the cultivation of their land. 

B 



10 



On the truth of the following- statements, your Lordship 
may rely, and they will amply prove the correctness of 
the preceding assertion. 

A Reverend Friend of mine was present at the last Baptist 

Annual Association, held at . He slept at the house 

of a man, who was the principal person of this community. 
When he retired to rest, he observed the wall of the room in 
which he slept, covered with pistols, cutlasses, and other 
destructive weapons. Being attended by a slave youth, of 
ahout seventeen years of age, he asked the lad the meaning 
of those arms being placed in that situation. The negro 
replied, " Oh y Massa, they are to take care against ive" 
meaning that these weapons were intended to keep the 
slaves in subjection, should they at any time become 
rebellious. The following morning my friend asked the 
owner of the house whether he was not apprehensive of 
danger from the rapid increase of the slave population in 
that place and its vicinity. He replied "That he had not 
any fear on that ground. The average length of slave 
life in Carolina, Orleans, and Georgia, did not exceed 
four years, which rendered a constant recruiting of the 
negro population indispensable in those States, so that 
when they appear too numerous in this neighbourhood, 
for the safety of ourselves, we send them to those 
Southern States, where they son die away. God in his 
mercy. Sir, has provided for us a safety valve." My 
friend heard shortly after this visit that the negro boy, who 
had been his attendant, was sent to the safety valve to toil 
away a short and wretched existence. It is passing strange 
that religious society could tolerate such a cold-blooded 
murderer, but, alas, it is to be feared that many others of 
the same sanguinary class were enrolled on the list of the 
community. 

A pastor from one of the Northern States was visiting a 
minister in the South. On Sunday morning, and just 
before they were to go to the church, the owner of the 
house ordered a little negro boy, a slave, whose duty it 
was to clean the shoes, to bring them to him, when, 
observing they were not well polished, he beat the poor child 



11 



in a most unmerciful manner with the cow skin. The 
young and feeble boy, who was not more than twelve 
years of age, was only covered with a thin shirt and 
trousers, and was cut and bruised by his reverend and 
merciless master. The cries and shrieks of the suffering 
child were most piercing, and thrilled through the feelings 
of the northern minister, who, indignantly remonstrated 
with the ruffian respecting his conduct, refused to 
accompany him to his church, and immediately quitted 
this habitation of cruelty'. Nevertheless a community 
could be found, who would listen with satisfaction to the 
ministry of a man, who, after boiling with rage, and 
having brutally scourged his little slave for a trifling fault, 
proceeded immediately from the scene of domestic passion 
and cruelty to the sanctuary of God, to impress on the 
minds of his congregation the importance of imitating the 
lovely and perfect example of the patient and merciful 
Saviour of the world. 

It sometimes happens, that negroes belonging to minis- 
ters of religion in the Southern States of America, become 
members of the community over which their masters 
preside. It is notorious that some of these pastors will sell 
the very slaves in the course of the week, to whom they have 
administered the holy sacrament on the preceding Sunday. 
This diabolical conduct first reached me through a talented 
newspaper, called " The Reformer," and printed in 
Birmingham. So depraved did it appear, that I 
refused to credit its existence, till lately meeting with 
a respectable and excellent minister from America, 
inquired of him respecting the truth of the report, when 
he solemnly assured me that the statement was correct. 
I was appalled by the reply, and shuddered at the actions 
of these professed ministers of religion, who after adminis- 
tering the emblems of the body and blood of the Redeemer 
to their slaves, and by that most solemn act acknowledged 
them to be the members of Christ, and of His body the 
church, could immediately traffic in their persons, and sell 
them to obtain such infamous gain. 

Let am- Ciirisrian i;i ;'iN co'.iuiry deliberate] v refect on 



12 



the varied crime which this atrocious depravity involves, 
and he will easily believe that such '* wolves in sheep 
clothing" would not hesitate, if opportunity offered, 
to purchase the very Apostles themselves, and, as 
Judas did, to sell the Saviour of mankind at the price of a 
Roman slave. 

The Char lest own Courier has lately published the account 
of a great meeting, held in that city to defend the system 
of slavery in the Southern States, and in which may be 
read the perfidious part that the professed ministers of 
the gospel acted in that disgraceful assembly. The follow- 
ing is a quotation extracted from the paper : — " One 
of the most imposing assemblages of citizens, in respect 
of numbers, intelligence, and respectability, that we have 
ever witnessed, met yesterday morning, at the City Hall, 
to receive the report of the committee, appointed by the 
meeting, on the 4th instant, on the incendiary machina- 
tions now in progress against the peace and welfare of the 
Southern States. The Clergy of all denominations attended 
in a body, lending their sanction to the proceedings ; and 
aiding by their presence to the impressive character of the 
scene." The meeting closed with the following resolu- 
tion : — " Resolved, that the thanks of this meeting are 
due to the Reverend Gentlemen of the Clergy, in this 
eity, who have so promptly and so effectually responded 
to public sentiments, by suspending their schools, in 
which the free coloured population were taught; and that 
this meeting deem it a patriotic action worthy of all praise, 
and proper to be imitated by other teachers of similar 
schools throughout the State." Such is the character of 
the ministers in Charlestown. The professed lights of 
the world, attempting to withhold its beams from their 
fellow-creatures — stewards of the mysteries of God, and 
refusing to dispense them to those for whom they were 
intended — teachers, endeavouring to keep men in igno- 
rance — " candles placed under a bushel" — professing to 
*' honour all men," and aiding to enslave them — declaring 
their love to the brotherhood, by subjecting them to injus- 
tice and oppression. Ye mean and putrid hypocrites, the 



13 



day is advancing when the momentary smile of the blood- 
thirsty slave-dealer, will prove but a wretched prelude 
to the eternal frown of a betrayed and insulted Saviour. 

The following is an extract of the resolution, in defence 
of slavery, put forth by the Presbyterian Synod of South 
Carolina and Georgia : — " Resolved unanimously, that in 
the opinion of this Synod, abolition societies a?id the prin- 
ciples on which they are founded in the United States, are 
inconsistent with the best interests of the slaves, the rights 
of the holders, and the great principles of our political 
institutions." 

The following letter from a Presbyterian minister, 
residing at Buckingham, in Virginia, appeared in a paper 
called The Richmond Enquirer, and is so horrible as to 
surpass credit, were not its authenticity fully established : — 

" To the Sessions of the Presbyterian Congregations 
within the bounds of West Hanover Presbytery. One 
of the humblest of your ministers, dear Christian brethren, 
begs leave to address you through a political newspaper. 
At the approaching stated meeting of our Presbytery, I 
design to otfer a string of resolutions on the subject of the 
treasonable and abominably ivicked interference of the 
Northern and Eastern fanatics, with our political and 
civil rights, our property, and our domestic concerns. I, 
myself, dear brethren, have no reason to doubt the perfect 
soundness of all my clerical brethren of this Presbytery on 
this subject. Now, dear brethren, I humbly express it as 
my earnest wish that you quit yourselves like men. The 
times rely upon it, the times demand it. If there be any 
stray goat of a minister amongst us, tainted luith the 
bloodhound principles of abolitionism, let him be ferreted 
out, silenced, excommunicated, and left to the public to 
dispose of him in other respects. Your affectionate brother 
in the Lord, "Robert N. Anderson." 

"Sept. 3rd, 1835." 

The meaning of this letter is, that if any minister 
belonging to the Hanover Presbytery should be an enemy 
to slavery, let him be deprived of his sacred function, and 
exposed to the rage of an incensed rabble, even to the 



14 



loss of his life. It" is indeed astonishing that such a 
clerical wretch as Anderson should be allowed to minister 
in holy things. 

"A document has recently appeared, signed by thirteen 
ministers within the Baltimore annual conference of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, protesting against the agi- 
tation of the question of slavery, and requesting that no 
publications on that subject may be sent to them." The 
respectable and highly useful denomination of Methodists 
in England, as well as their numerous missionaries on 
heathen ground, who have so uniformly honoured them- 
selves by their avowed hostility to the wicked system of 
slavery, will surely renounce these thirteen base traitors to 
the best interests of their fellow-creatures, and let them 
know that they are deemed by them to be the grand agents 
of "the unfruitful works of darkness." 

At a late meeting of the Clergy of Richmond, in Virginia, 
the following resolutions were unanimously adopted. 

" Resolved — That whilst we deem it inexpedient/or stran- 
gers from abroad to preach to our coloured population, we 
consider it a part of our official duty, as resident ministers, to 
preach the Gospel to servants, and to give them oral 
instruction concerning the duties they owe to God, their 
masters, and to one another. 

" Resolved — That we will not patronise, nor receive any 
pamphlets or neivspapers of the antislavery societies, and that 
we will discountenance the circulation of all such papers 
in the community." 

The following testimony in favour of slavery is issued 
unblushingly by the agent of the Virginia Bible Society, a 
popular minister named the Rev. Wm. M. Atkinson, and 
will forcibly exhibit the most shocking inconsistency be- 
tween the Sacred Scriptures, which, as an agent, he circu- 
lates, and as a minister he professes to enforce on the 
attention of others. 

" My all of property is vested in real estate and slaves in 
Virginia. I have ten brothers and sisters, most of them 
heads of families, and many other chfrished and honoured 
ivhitive- n:\fl friends, v.-itl-ont an' exertion, tlrsc arc all. 



15 



slave holders. If then I am at all influenced by self- 
interest, it is impossible for me to be an abolitionist. May 
1 not well appeal to the whole tenor of a life passed since 
early manhood entirely within the public view, to shield 
me from the imputation of such fanaticism ? Not one act 
of that life justifies such a charge. But though I consider 
slavery a great evil, in nearly every light in which it can 
be viewed, I believe the proposed remedy to be a still 
greater. The diseased has but enfeebled, the bold prescrip- 
tion of the quack would utterly destroy." 

The following extract is taken from the Washington 
Telegraph. " As a man, a Christian, and a citizen, / 
believe that slavery is right, that the condition of the slave, 
as it now exists in the slave- holding States, is the best 
existing organization of society." 

These are a very few documents, my Lord, out of many 
which I have in my possession, and which prove how 
deeply-rooted is the love of slavery in the hearts of men, 
who, more than all the rest of mankind, ought as ministers 
of religion to have reprobated it both by their instruc- 
tions and their practice. 

The newspapers in the Southern States of America are 
teeming with communications from individual ministers, 
defending slavery, and anathemizingin the most disgusting 
language the friends of negro emancipation. . Although the 
most cruel and murderous outrages have been committed in 
those parts during the last three months, under the influence 
of this detestable system, not a single testimony from any 
minister of religion residing there has appeared in any of 
the public papers expressing his aversion to its continuance. 

If the enormity of crime can be estimated by the punish- 
ment which the Divine Being has annexed to it, then slave 
dealing is a sin of the highest magnitude. It is commanded 
by heaven to be visited with the same consequences which 
are appointed to follow the commission of murder and 
unnatural offences. That inspired word which condemns 
criminals of these classes to suffer death, expressly says, 
" he who stealeth a man and selleth him shall surely die." 
The writings of the New Testament have classified " men 



16 



stealers" with those transgressors whose crimes are the 
most inhuman, profligate, detestable, and injurious to 
society. 

The public in this country will learn with astonishment 
and pain that, in some parts of America, may be seen the 
disgusting and criminal spectacle of reverend human Jlesh- 
mongers — ministerial traders in human beings — spiritually 
(/rdained traffickers in the persons of their fellow-creatures. 
That the same characters, who are the expositors of 
spiritual freedom, are the friends and supporters of unjust 
and infamous oppression. The advocates of Divine mercy, 
and the prime instruments of human cruelty. The pro- 
fessed ambassadors of heaven and the allies of hell. The 
avowed friends of the Saviour of men, and dealers in the 
purchase of His blood. It is impossible, my Lord, to think 
of the daring inconsistency of such base traitors to Chris- 
tianity — such Judas -begotten disciples — such perfect con- 
formists to that origin of all evil, who transforms himself 
into an angel of light to destroy the human race, without 
being astonished that these wretched ministers can, 
without the utmost confusion both of heart and coun- 
tenance, ascend their pulpits and preach the contents of 
that holy book to others, on whose pages the reverend 
slave-dealers themselves are classified with murderers 
and such wretches as commit unnatural crime. The 
vocabulary of language is too faint to describe their 
meanness, cowardice, hypocrisy, cruelty, and flagrant 
guilt. The voice of all religious denominations ought 
tr. reject them from their sacred function. Let them 
be stripped of the gowns which they have polluted — 
excluded from the pulpits they have disgraced — rejected 
by the congregations they have deceived, and treated in 
every respect as the vilest foes to that blessed cause 
which is alone calculated to advance the highest honours 
of the Creator by promoting the felicity of His creatures. 

It is surely impossible that religious communities in 
England, and who have so loudly and perseveringly pro- 
tested against West India slavery could have been ac- 
quainted with the extent of the system and its vile trade 



17 



carried on amongst their kindred denominations and mi- 
nisters in the Southern States of America, or they would 
not have constantly addressed them by the appellations of 
" Dear Brethren " — " Dear Christian Brethren " — " Dear 
Brethren in the Lord" — and concluded these epistles with 
" Yours affectionately in Christ" — " Yours in the bonds of 
the gospel" — " Yours in our common Lord," and such 
like language. I solemnly and deliberately declare that 
such salutations would have been sent with equal pro- 
priety to Burke and Hare, to Williams and Bishop, whose 
numerous murders supplied schools of anatomy with sub- 
jects, as to those ministers and churches in America who 
inhumanly traffic in the persons of their fellow-creatures. 
Their conduct is a most daring violation of every precept 
of the divine law, all the statutes of which are classed 
under the duties of supreme love to God, and the highest 
benevolence to man, and these commandments no sin more 
wickedly opposes, than the system of American slavery 
and its cruel trade. If a member of any Christian com- 
munity in this country is known to be guilty of one 
flagrant act of immorality, he is immediately excommu- 
nicated, whilst gangs of savage, obdurate, unjust, base 
human flesh-dealers, whose traffic is as offensive to heaven 
as it is disgraceful to earth, foreigners to every princi- 
ple of justice and humanity, are treated as if they were 
some of the brightest ornaments of religious society. 

A public character, who has lately visited America, in a 
letter addressed from thence to his friends in England, 
when alluding to the Baptist churches in the Southern 
states, says " that with the exception of countenancing and 
practising slavery they are truly amiable." This testimony, 
my Lord, when examined, informs us that, with the excep- 
tion of living in the commission of the highest crime, the 
guilt of which is equal to that of committing perpetual 
murder, they are excellent members of Christian society. 
In the course of my professional duties, I have attended 
many culprits to execution ; many of these, with the 
exception of the crimes for which they suffered, were 
persons of amiable dispositions, but this was no recom- 

c 



18 



mendation of them to the clemency and respect of 
society, they endured the consequences of their guilt, the 
greatness of which, in many instances, was not equal to 
the infamous sin of dealing in human beings. 

It is true that the men who forfeited their lives to 
their country have broken those statutes by which the body 
politic is preserved, and consequently cannot form any 
parallel with the slave-dealing members of Christian 
denominations. But let it be remembered that every kind 
of society is bound by laws peculiar to its own constitution, 
whether it be a kingdom at large, or the more contracted 
sphere of a religious community. The trader in the per- 
sons of human beings, unfortunately, is not legally com- 
pelled in America to end his life on the gibbet, and which 
he very richly deserves, but he has so daringly violated 
every principle of Christianity that he professes, as fully to 
justify his exclusion from every community whose regula- 
tions are enforced by divine authority. It must not be for- 
gotten that these slave-dealers have been frequently reproved 
by Christian denominations in England, for the wickedness 
of their conduct; these remonstrances hitherto have been 
altogether in vain; they not only persist in the cruel and 
infamous system, but unblushingly defend it, censure in 
the most angry and brutal language any attempt to inter- 
fere with it, and in which they very modestly style the 
enslaved negroes " their property and domestic policy."' 

It will scarcely be believed that some of the places of 
worship in the Southern States are partly supported 
by the labour of slaves, who have been left by will for 
that purpose. If the minister should not have any 
employment for them, he will hire them out to work 
for another, and after taking the price of their toil to 
himself, he will ascend his pulpit, and have the effrontery 
to tell his congregation, that the man is cursed who gives 
not the hireling ivages for his ivork. That it is a great sin 
to oppress them ivho cultivate and reap their fields , for the 
cries of such have ascended to the ears of the Lord of 
Sabaoth, and that God Almighty hates robbery for burnt- 
offering. 



19 



It is certainly due to some of the churches in America, to 
notice their consistency with respect to the sin of counte- 
nancing slavery. They have publicly denounced it as an 
abomination of the most detestable kind. They will neither 
admit a minister into their pulpits nor allow any lay member 
of their societies to continue in their communion, who 
may be known to practice it, consequently they must by such 
regulations renounce all sacred alliance to those slave 
dealing characters in other religious communities, who 
have so unwarrantably assumed the honourable title of 
Christians. I would recommend to all pastors of churches 
in England, that for the future, when any minister from 
America visits this country, and although his testimonials, 
both to character and talent, may appear quite satisfactory, 
yet before he is cordially and confidentially received, let 
him be closely interrogated on the subject of slavery. If 
he be t found not merely to practice it, but to defend or even 
to approve of it, let him be discountenanced, and published 
through all denominations of Christians in England, 
precisely on the ground and by the same method that 
any grossly immoral minister would be exposed, coming 
from another country to visit Great Britain. The teacher 
of religion that can buy, sell, enslave, and oppress his fellow - 
creatures, ought not to be allowed to preach that gospel 
which proclaims " good will to men," but ought, and that 
most righteously, to have " the word of truth utterly taken 
out of his mouth." If any minister or agent of a public 
benevolent institution in England be delegated to visit 
America in his official capacity, and he be known whilst 
in that country either to support or profess to approve 
of the system of slavery, on his return to this land let 
him be treated as unworthy of public confidence, as a man, 
whose religious principles are not established, or as a 
traitor, whose motives are base and impure. 

Some persons after visiting America for a religious 
object, on their return to England, have favoured the world 
with a costly volume or two, describing the voyage across 
the Atlantic, the beauty of the scenery through which 
they afterwards travelled, the hospitality they experienced, 



20 



the scholars to whom they were introduced, the libraries they 
explored, the colleges they visited, the large congregations 
with which they assembled, and sometimes addressed, as 
well as the numerous valuable societies, which are insti- 
tuted in that land of professed freedom. In these productions 
it is truly amusing to read, how the authors appear to 
detest the slavery of America, and denounce it as the vilest 
of all systems ; without informing us of any pulpit, plat- 
form, or press, from which they loudly, publicly, and 
continually denounced it whilst there, as the disgrace of 
the nation, and a sin of the highest magnitude. 

In the appointment of men by religious societies in this 
country, who are to go and oppose the evil of slavery in 
America, great care should be taken that such deputies 
be properly qualified for their work, or much evil may 
ensue by the failure of their mission. Pusillanimous and 
pliable characters, whom threats can deter, or smiles allure 
from their object, are most improper instruments for the 
work. Men should be sent, whose constitutions are 
naturally courageous — whose principles are uncompro- 
mising — whose caution in the discharge of their duty 
would avoid running into that danger, which constitutes 
presumption, but whose firmness at all times would calmly 
but boldly meet the opposition with which they might be 
resisted. 

But whilst I commend some of the American churches 
for their abhorrence of slavery ; many of these are much to 
be censured for the sinful feelings which they constantly 
and almost universally discover toward the free people 
of colour. These are of different shades, from such as 
are altogether black, to those who are so nearly white 
as scarcely to be otherwise recognized. No one who 
has not witnessed the treatment to which these people 
are exposed in America, would scarcely credit its 
description. They are avoided as if they were not 
human beings, or as an Englishman would shun 
another whom he supposed was infected with some con- 
tagious disease. These people are constantly made to 
feel that those social and political advantages are not 



21 



chartered to them as are universally enjoyed by the white 
population, nor can any redeeming quality of either 
property, education, intellect, talent, or patriotism, be 
accepted, for having the least shade of the skin. For such 
feeling to be displayed toward these persons, by brutal and 
unprincipled slave dealers, is not in the least surprising ; 
but for members of Christian communities to discover 
it, not only in their general intercourse with these people, 
but in their churches, and even in the celebration of the 
Lord's supper, by the occupying of seats so separately 
constructed as to mark the distinction of colour, is most 
inconsistent with the sanctity of religion, and a la- 
mentable degradation of the Christian character. Such 
arrangement in a place of worship is most revolting. 
It is a direct contradiction of the fact, that " God has made 
of one blood all the nations of the earth," and it is a gross 
practical violation of one of the most solemn and vital 
professions made by those who partake of the Eucharist, 
respecting their fellow communicants, "that they are 
members of Christ and members one of another." 

When I reflect on the state of slaverv in America, with 
its varied and disgusting results, I feel both proud and 
grateful that I am an Englishman, and capable of appre- 
ciating the superior excellency of the country in which I 
was born. A nation, which by its own united voice has 
removed from itself for ever the reproach of holding 
enslaved colonies, by a munificent payment for negro 
emancipation out of her own treasury. A country, which 
invariably presents an asylum to the sojourner and stranger, 
who seeks to shelter himself beneath its constitution and its 
laws. "It matters not (says an eloquent lawyer), in what 
disastrous battle a man's liberties may have been cloven 
down, nor what complexion incompatible with freedom, an 
Indian or an African sun may have burned upon him, nor 
on what altar of slavery the sacred rites of his freedom 
may have boen devoted, nor with what solemnities, — the 
moment his foot rests on British earth, the altar and^the 
god sink together in the dust, his soul swelling beyond the 
measure of his chains which burst from around him, he 



22 



stands redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled by the 
irresistible genius of universal emancipation." 

In vain could America attempt to use similar language 
respecting herself, whilst she harbours and nourishes 
the accursed system of slavery in any part of her 
dominions. She may boast of her colleges, churches, 
benevolent institutions, Bible and Missionary Societies, 
of her commerce and her wealth, with every thing 
besides which can promote the greatness of any 
country, but whilst two millions of her population are 
held in such bondage as subjects them to be bought and 
sold like cattle in a market, her boasted constitution 
is deeply blemished, and, instead of its appearing 
excellent, by the blessings which it ought to impart 
to all who exist within its influence, it presents such 
an odious compound as most glaringly marks the gross 
inconsistency of professed liberty with the aggravated guilt 
of cruel and extensive slavery. As long as this detes- 
table svstem is legalized in any of the American States, 
she will retain a blot in her national escutcheon, and 
present a spectacle to the world, the beauty of which is 
at once destroyed by a violation of all the magnificent 
principles of humanity and justice. 

Such heterogeneous society diminishes her security by 
destroying the harmony of her population. If any 
legal attempt should be made to annihilate slavery 
in America, the inhabitants of the Southern States 
have loudly threatened the dissolution of the union. 
Should they madly endeavour to commit such an act of 
high treason against the constitution, and a conflict should 
ensue between the free and enslaved districts, the former 
would only have to look to the negroes and the free 
people of colour for effective aid, in a struggle which 
would be to give liberty to the captive and elevation to 
the oppressed. In such a case, it is not improbable but 
the slave-holding and ferocious tyrants of the South would 
attempt a massacre of the black population. Be it so. It 
would be better for some of these to die, than a whole 
nation to perish. The conflict, however, would be as 



23 



short in its duration as the victory would be perma- 
nent and glorious. If America consults her best interests, 
her prosperity in peace, and her security in war, let her 
direct her attention to the annihilation of her legalized 
slavery. To have a population of several millions in the 
very heart of her inhabited territory, not in the possession 
of anything ivorth defending, but everything from which 
they groan to be delivered, suffering the deepest and most 
unmerited injuries, in the midst of a nation from the 
advantages of whose laws they are excluded, must situate 
her political fabric as if a mine was formed beneath its 
foundations, to whose train it is only necessary to apply 
the match, and such an explosion would ensue as to leave 
not a vestige of her present constitution, except that which 
would be heard in the moanings of bitter repentance over 
the injustice of having refused to organize a state of society 
that would have effectually preserved the strength and 
harmony of her people, by the diffusion and maintenance 
of mutual interests, and which can never be the condition 
of any country where slavery is established by law and the 
oppressed are not permitted to go free. 

Such is the unnatural treatment that the free people of 
colour in America constantly experience from the gene- 
rality of the white population, that a revolution, by 
whatever means it might be effected, would not be in the 
least surprising. This oppressed class of society, surely, 
have never surveyed their united strength when reflecting 
on the grievous succession of injury they have endured, 
or they would have remembered long since, that they 
belong to a most important portion of the American 
people, who have, in common with others, shed their 
blood to defend, and endured taxation to support, the 
country, a part only of whose inhabitants reap the advan- 
tages which such efforts ought to have extended and 
secured without distinction or limitation to the whole 
population. 

It is with the view of perpetuating this oppression that 
education is refused, or so sparingly afforded to the black and 
coloured people in America, as constantly to keep them in a 



24 



state of inferiority. Their tyrants well know that slavery 
and distinctions in society on account of the colour of the 
skin, can never long exist where instruction universally 
prevails. The education of the people will ever be as 
if the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare ye the 
way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway 
for our God." No object is so intensely hated, and so 
uniformly dreaded by an American slave-dealer, as that of 
the schoolmaster being abroad. The tyrant " loves dark- 
ness rather than light, because his deeds are evil." But 
let him not imagine because the night of ignorance is 
long, in which he has, like his father, the Devil, been 
going about " seeking whom he might devour," that, 
therefore, the day of light and freedom will never dawn. 
The twilight is already passed, and the impediments 
to the happiness of society are visible. The most 
rapid advances of reformation are constantly to be 
observed. St. Domingo is free, and the British Colonies 
are emancipated. A gentleman is at Paris preparing a 
plan to end slavery in the French Islands, by the desire 
of that Government. Spain has engaged to abandon her 
traffic in human beings. Those European nations who at 
present hold enslaved colonies, are most attentively observ- 
ing the operation of freedom in the British possessions, 
entirely with the design of imitating the noble example of 
negro emancipation set by our own country. The West 
Indian Archipelago will soon kindle such flames pf 
liberty on the whole of its eminences as will most effectu- 
ally reflect their beams throughout the States of America, 
whilst in the very heart of that country herself there are at 
this time not less than three hundred societies formed, whose 
persevering and unwearied efforts to destroy slavery in her 
territories, will continue to pursue the disgusting and mur- 
derous monster till it faints and groans, gasps its last, and 
expires. If America can reflect properly on the influence of 
such extensive and powerful efforts as these, to end sla- 
very throughout the world, her legislature will, without 
delay, direct its solicitous attention to some plan for remov- 
ing immediately from her dominions this detestable 



25 



system. In vain can she hope to retain it for any pro- 
longed period, its doom is irrevocably fixed, and unless in 
a short time it be legally ended, it will assuredly expire 
by the efforts of popular tumult, violence, and blood. 

If, in a contracted and insular situation, genius could 
arise in connection with a black skin, so as to organize a 
plan, and to raise a force by which the horrors of slavery 
have been for ever driven from his native island ; let us not 
despond of hearing that on an extended continent, and 
from amongst millions of an oppressed population, some 
Toussaint may shortly appear, whose combined genius, 
valour, and patriotism, will display themselves in the 
overthrow of this accursed system, and thus become the 
honoured instrument of promoting justice and humanity, 
prosperity and happiness, religion and virtue, in those 
places where, at present, scarcely anything exists but 
ignorance and crime, cruelty and blood, bondage and 
grief, uttered in the moans created by the sanguinary 
hand, and still more merciless heart of those pests of 
society, whose only gain is derived from a traffic in human 
beings. 

If in America a struggle should commence between those 
who are so unjustly deprived of their freedom and the 
defenders of slavery, there is not an English heart but 
would wish the negroes and the people of colour speedy 
and entire success. All the enlightened countries in 
Europe would unite in congratulating this oppressed popu- 
lation, on the virtue which induced them to commence the 
conflict, and the courage by which the victory was obtained. 
The number of slaves in Brazil exceed the free people by 
the proportion of ten to one ; they would soon hear of the 
deliverance which their fellow-sufferers had obtained in the 
American States, and would immediately imitate their just 
and laudable example. Slavery and its trade would then 
nearly have ceased. Commerce would be maintained and 
increased in connection with justice and freedom, whilst the 
voice of joy and triumph would resound throughout those 
territories which are at present chiefly distinguished by the 
groans and cruelties of inhuman oppression. 

D 



26 



If this letter should be read on the other side of the 
Atlantic, it is probable that it will create a reply ; and for 
the sake of avoiding discussion, my attention will perhaps 
be directed to the importance of cultivating " a meek and 
quiet spirit." Hypocrisy invariably advocates the most vir- 
tuous mental ornaments, under the professions of which it 
hopes to hide both its meanness and its guilt. The writer 
may prove a reverend dealer in human beings, some 
of whom may have been members of the community 
of which he is the criminal and polluted pastor. But 
should his audacity induce him to reply, let him 
venture on the work as soon as he pleases, I will endea- 
vour to return him such an answer as his remonstrance 
may merit ; as if every line of his book were written 
in the blood of those negroes, whose wounds he has 
inflicted, whose agonies he has increased, whose labour 
he has stolen, whose persons he has usurped, and whose 
liberties he has so wickedly destroyed. 

The entire removal of slavery from our own possessions 
affords high satisfaction to every benevolent mind. But 
if our efforts to end it in other parts of the world are now 
to cease, it is evident that we have done but little at 
present towards the universal destruction of the system. 
We have annihilated it in the British Colonies, where 
it existed, comparatively speaking, in a milder form, 
and neglected to make an end of the foreign slave 
trade. This regulation, therefore, has merely changed 
the locality of the evil, to increase it in a more horrid state 
in other parts of the world, by causing its victims to be 
forwarded altogether to Brazil and the American States, 
where they are treated with the greatest barbarity. 

The continuance of the foreign slave trade cannot fail to 
inflict the deepest injury on our own emancipated islands. 
It is impossible for them to compete with the Planters in 
Brazil, and in the American States, whose cultivation is by 
means of increasing slavery. The effect of this already has 
been to advance the importation of foreign sugars into 
London and Liverpool by more than 500,000 cwt., the 
amount of which, in the year 1828, was only 136,999 cwt. 



27 



If this traffic be allowed to proceed, our shipping 
interest will soon be greatly injured. The resources 
of the Brazils, with its comparatively cheap and abundant 
produce, will before long induce the inhabitants of that 
fertile country, to become the carriers of their crops, as 
well as the cultivators of their soil. 

The injury inflicted on our own colonies by the means 
of foreign slavery, must inevitably diminish the revenue 
derived from them, the amount of which, perhaps, is not 
generally known. I will select the year 1829 as a most 
disadvantageous season ever realized in our West India 
possessions, consequently the duties paid on their produce 
were less than in former or after years. Nevertheless 
the sum received at that time by our Government 
amounted to £7^878,316 sterling. This sum does not 
include that which was paid on importations from the 
Mauritius, nor that received on lesser articles of culti- 
vation brought from the West Indies to this country, so 
that even the above return must be much below the 
amount of revenue derived from all the produce sent into 
England and Ireland, from the whole of our colonies 
during the same period. The sum raised in this country 
by the assessed taxes in 1829, was inferior by nearly 
£3,000,000 sterling to the amount of duties paid in the 
same disadvantageous year on their imported produce. 
The whole revenue of Great Britain in 1829 amounted to 
£50,786,882 sterling, so that, even at this unproductive 
period, the duties paid on importations from the British 
Colonies into this country, were nearly equal to one-sixth 
part of the whole revenue received from the United King- 
dom. Such was the importance of these islands in a dis- 
advantageous season, and when cultivated by slave labour, 
but still of greater value can they be made now they 
are emancipated, if proper protection be afforded them 
from the destructive effects of the slave trade. 

It may be replied, that foreign colonial produce im- 
ported into England will yield its proportionate revenue. 
But surely it would ill comport with every principle of 
national justice and consistency to recruit the British 



28 



treasury from duties on produce cultivated by slavery, far 
more cruel and revolting than that which has cost this coun- 
try twenty millions of money to annihilate. Our colonies 
are as much integral parts of the British Empire as the 
counties of the United Kingdom, and therefore are entitled 
to protection in common with all the other interests of the 
nation. We must not be silent whilst our emancipated 
possessions are on the verge of ruin by means of a trade, 
which the law of England has declared to be felony in any 
British subject to engage. If we encourage for the sake of 
revenue large importations of produce from Foreign Colo- 
nies, whose whole cultivation is by slavery, we can never 
clear ourselves from the guilt of participating in the sin of 
that detestable traffic, from which all the present depression 
in our islands has arisen, and of which, at present, 
they so justly complain. England has engaged to pay 
twenty millions of money to end slavery in her own domi- 
nions ; she is, therefore, bound by moral consistency to 
attempt the annihilation of the same system throughout the 
world, but more especially in those parts in which by 
its continuance our own colonies are so materially injured. 
During the late discussion in this country respecting the 
abolition of slavery, the West India proprietors were 
apprehensive that, as soon as the negroes ivere libe- 
rated, the islands ivould be left without that commercial 
protection which ivould enable the planters to compete with 
the price of slave produce imported from other parts of the 
world into the European markets. From the present depres- 
sed state of the English Colonies, occasioned chiefly by the 
vigour with which the foreign slave trade is proceeding, it 
is to be feared that such apprehensions will be painfully 
verified. But surely, my Lord, this injury ought, to be 
prevented. As an humble individual amongst the millions, 
whose voices have been raised against the continuance of 
slavery under British sanction, and in the annihilation of 
which you have taken so distinguished a part, I feel myself 
bound by every principle of justice, humanity, and pa- 
triotism, to contribute my feeble aid to promote the future 
prosperity of our own emancipated islands. We cannot be 



29 



silent and witness their ruin by the means of that inhuman 
system fostered in other dominions, which has cost such a 
sum to destroy in our own colonies. The foreign 
slave trade must have an end, and until it be completely 
finished, such protecting duties ought to be created in favour 
of them, as will effectually remove all the superior 
advantage at present possessed by foreigners in the pro- 
duce market, and which arises entirely from cheaper culti- 
vation by slave labour. 

Such measures, if promptly adopted, would soon render 
our colonies mines of wealth to their possessors, advan- 
tageous scenes of industry and comfort to their cultivators 
immense sources of revenue to the English treasury by the 
importations of their abundant produce to us, and the ex- 
portation of our extensive manufactures to them. This 
country, as well as the colonists, would quickly realize 
the great advantages of such commercial reciprocity; and 
those islands, situated in the midst of the Western ivorld 3 
would become, by their prosperity, the undeniable evidence of 
the superior advantages of cultivation by free labour, to 
those derived from a system of slavery, as well as a practical 
demonstration of the benefits obtained from the vigilant pro- 
tection of the parent country to which they are so closely 
allied. But should the foreign slave trade be continued, 
and our colonies remain exposed to its destructive effects, 
their condition will be truly deplorable. Ruin must 
shortly ensue ; the great and costly design of negro emanci- 
pation will be frustrated ; the black population, redeemed 
from slavery at an immense expense, instead of being 
rendered by their free condition a peaceable, united, 
industrious, moral, and happy peasantry, will become by 
the poverty of their employers, and consequently by the 
indolence of themselves, gangs of lawless marauders, 
banditti, and pirates, whose subsistence will be procured by 
extensive and rapacious plunder, and whose means to obtain 
it will be by cruelty and murder. 

Nor would the system of education, so universally granted 
at present to the negroes, be any effectual barrier against 
such a calamitous result. However important it may be 



30 



to instruct the emancipated population, certain it is, 
that such an advantage when imparted, is worse than 
useless, if unaccompanied with that discipline, of which 
suitable employment, honest industry, and habituated 
obedience, are the essential elements. It would be 
perverted to the worst of purposes by a very large propor- 
tion of those to whom it may have been granted, and the 
education of the negroes, which ought to prove an invaluable 
blessing to all grades of colonial society, by the evils which 
it might prevent, and the advantages that it would afford, 
would be chiefly employed in the subversion of valuable 
institutions, and the entire demolition of constituted 
authority. 

Although our endeavours to end the foreign slave trade 
have been great, yet such obstacles have arisen to impede 
our efforts, that little success has followed them, when 
compared with its still increasing extent. It has been 
continued for the last twelve years by a gross violation 
of a treaty signed in 1821, by France, Spain, Portugal, 
Brazil, and England, in which it was stipulated, that trading 
in the persons of our fellow-creatures should cease in four 
years from the above period. It is by this agreement not 
having been regarded by the foreign confederated Govern- 
ments, that under their sanction British subjects have dared 
to embark their capital in the slave trade. England 
has repeatedly remonstrated with these nations against 
protecting it, and his Britannic Majesty has recently 
signed a second treaty with Spain in particular, that the 
vile traffic shall not be continued under her flag. British 
cruizers are numerously and successfully employed in 
capturing vessels, but the present extent of the 
trade clearly proves that these efforts, so far from 
destroying it, are inadequate even to check its destructive 
and murderous progress. The average number of slave 
ships taken by our cruizers is one out of hvelve ; and 
so profitable is the vile traffic, that a merchant engaged 
in it is perfectly satisfied if he can clear two voyages out 
of three, as his gain on the former ivould then amount 
nearly to hvo hundred per cent. Mixed commissioned 



31 



courts have been established in those places to which 
slave ships when captured are usually sent, and which 
are empowered to dispose of them with their cargoes, 
officers, and crew, according to law. The vessel is con- 
demned and sold, ivhilst probably the purchaser is an agent 
for the owner from whom she has been taken, or for some 
similar miscreant ivho sends her again to the coast of Africa 
in the same illegal trade. The officers and crew are sen- 
tenced to imprisonment,//-©//! which the captain immediately 
liberates himself for three or four doubloons, the mates for 
a less sum, and the foremast men for a few dollars each. 
The negroes removed from the captured ship are ordered 
to be apprenticed for a short time, to qualify them for free 
colonial cultivation, but it is notorious that they are inva- 
riably driven into the interior of the country, and re-sold 
for slaves. The English people are delighted with the 
efforts of our Government to end this inhuman trade, 
and read with ecstacy the success of our naval com- 
manders commissioned to prevent it, whilst the dealer in 
human beings laughs at the mummery, and proceeds undis- 
mayed in his cruel career. 

Ineffectual hitherto as all the means have proved to de- 
stroy the slave trade, and difficult as the accomplishment of 
so desirable an object may still appear, there are measures 
yet untried, which if enforced would quickly annihilate this 
base traffic. It ought to be declared piracy by the united 
consent of all nations, and every slave vessel as such should 
be liable to be seized by the ships of every country commis- 
sioned for the purpose. Tribunals, consisting of upright 
and decisive judges, should be appointed at convenient loca- 
lities, to which the piratical officers and crew should be 
sent for trial, and when convicted not any consideration 
should prevent their execution within twenty-four hours 
after condemnation, the same time which the law of Eng- 
land allows a murderer to live after he has received sentence 
of death. The operation of this law would probably in 
some instances induce the crew of a slave ship to fight 
most desperately, rather than submit to be taken as pirates, 
knowing that whether they resisted and a capture ensued, 



32 



or yielded without any struggle, death in either case would 
be their inevitable portion. Under these circumstances a 
proper distinction might mark the aggravated crime of re- 
sistance. The commanders of our cruizers should be 
instructed to receive the negroes on board of his Majesty's 
ship, and immediately to execute summary justice by sink- 
ing the piratical vessel with her officers and crew, not 
allowing any of them to escape. If it should appear 
incompatible with either room, health, or safety, to take 
the slaves on board of the cruizer, and the preservation of 
the vessel in which they were taken be necessary for the 
conveyance of them to their legal destination, the commis- 
sioned commander should then be directed to execute the 
pirates at the yard-arm of his Majesty's ship as early as 
possible after their capture. Every Government forming a 
party to the treaty that declares the slave trade to be 
piracy, should be required to commission its proportionate 
number of ships to prevent the traffic, and these should sail 
under similar orders to those delivered to British cruizers. 
Suitable pay and prize remuneration ought to be allowed 
to our officers and men if successful, to excite their dili- 
gence and activity in the service. The owners of slave 
ships, and such merchants as embark their capital in the 
detestable trade, should when detected be held accountable 
for their conduct. At present these guilty adventurers are 
exposed only to trifling consequences. The wretch in Cuba 
who charters his vessel in this traffic, if she be captured, 
never suffers more punishment than the condemnation of 
her in a mixed commissioned court. The capital embarked 
in this horrid trade by a British merchant, subjects him 
merely to a small diminution of property by the loss of his 
cargo if the vessel be seized, and this is the only conse- 
quence which at present is attached to his infamous 
speculation. This is too painful for reflection, and difficult 
to be mentioned without feeling the warmest indignation 
at such palpable injustice. A man who in this country is 
detected in smuggling a gallon of spirituous liquors is 
fined £100 for the offence, and if incapable to pay the 
money he is sent either to prison and hard labour, or to 



33 



serve in the navy for five years. Numerous criminals in 
England have been executed or transported for life for 
stealing a few trinkets in a dwelling-house, or for the 
forgery of a pound note; whilst gangs of cold-blooded 
mercantile miscreants are permitted with little interruption 
to charter vessels and embark capital in a trade which 
annually consigns not less than one hundred thousand 
of our fellow-creatures to the horrors of perpetual slavery, 
and in which traffic cruelties beyond imagination are 
inflicted, wholesale murders are constantly committed to the 
frightful and yearly number of almost ten thousand victims, 
and whose only crime is the colour of their ski?i. For such 
atrocities both the ship-owner and the merchant, who are 
the prime cause of all the evil, if the vessel be captured, 
suffer only a trifling diminution of their basely applied 
property. There is not an Englishman, my Lord, 
who deserves the name, when reflecting on such glaring 
injustice, but would cry shame, shame on a legisla- 
ture that would consign a poor wretch to the gibbet 
for forging the sum of twenty shillings, and allow a British 
mercantile miscreant, who is steeped up to the lip in 
villainy, cruelty, and murder, to escape with a trifling 
punishment. 

It may be replied that the law of England has made it a 
capital felony for any of her subjects to engage in the slave 
trade. But this only relates to the prevention of fitting out 
vessels for the purpose in British ports, and to criminate 
subjects of this country who maybe captured in them at sea. 
This regulation is ineffectual to deter the English mer- 
chant from engaging in the trade under foreign authority, 
because it leaves the cruel adventurer himself unmo- 
lested. A law could be made, and that with general concur- 
rence, which would most effectually prevent this traffic 
being carried on by British subjects under any sanction. 
Attach the consequences of piracy equally to the English 
slave merchant ashore, as to the captain and crew of 
his vessel if captured at sea. If he be detected and found 
guilty by the verdict of a jury of employing his capital 
in the foreign slave trade, let the infamous culprit expiate 

E 



34 



his crime by the forfeiture of his life to that country 
and its laws which he has both disgraced and violated by 
trading in human beings. And whatever might be his 
property, his influence, his connections, or his general 
character at the time of his condemnation, not one of these 
considerations, nor all of them united, should be permitted 
to avert his fate. The punishment ought to be as certain as 
the conviction was clear. He is an accessary to slave 
dealing and murder before the fact, and he should end his 
existence by an ignominious death. If such measures were 
adopted the English slave merchants would soon learn that 
the law to prevent the cruel trade was not a scare-crow, 
or useless threats, merely intended to deter from crime, but 
a forcible statute, to visit it with appropriate punishment. 
They would not, as they do at present, laugh at the folly of 
the efforts employed to annihilate the inhuman traffic ; nor 
would society at large find it difficult to state in which the 
weakness most predominates, the law, which is inadequate 
to prevent this gross crime, or the legislature, which is 
indifferent to its infamous progression. 

To render effective these means to end the foreign 
slave trade, a powerful association should be formed in. 
this country, whose object should be to watch its mover 
ments and announce them to the world, likewise to press 
for the execution of the laws against British subjects who 
in any form may be found to be engaged in the traffic. 
This society should have its agents and correspondents in, 
every part of the world where negro slavery exists, and by 
whose constant communications to England, the objects of 
such a laudable combination would be essentially facili- 
tated. If your Lordship would become its. president, 
multitudes in the United Kingdom, who combine property, 
intelligence, influence, and every virtue that can ornament 
character, would enroll themselves as members of such an 
association. When its benevolent intentions should be 
effected, and slavery, the disgrace of nations, be ended, you 
would then have the invaluable consolation of having been 
one of the greatest benefactors to the most miserable anc} 
defenceless part of the human race, On the memory of 



35 



posterity your philanthropy would be engraven more 
imperishable than the skill of the artist could record it 
either in brass or in marble. And the future historian 
would connect your name with the most important and 
successful exertions to impart freedom and happiness to a 
large proportion of the family of man, who are at present, 
by means of the foreign slave trade, and the system it 
supports, rendered the most wretched beings on the surface 
of the globe. 

If Spain be determined to fulfil the treaty into which 
she has recently entered With England not to sanction the 
slave trade, and issue such orders to her colonies, it is pos- 
sible that Cuba, the great dep6t of African slaves, from 
whence they are sent to Brazil and the American States, may 
refuse to obey the regulations. In this case, if the Parent 
Country should appear incapable to reduce this large island 
to its allegiance, the British legislature could easily and effec- 
tually assist her, by commissioning a few of those immense 
machines which at present float in the harbours of Ports- 
mouth and Plymouth, to destroy the fort at the entrance of 
the Havannah, These are well educated, and can speak a 
language that all nations can perfectly comprehend. And 
after cruizing for a short time,' or remaining at anchor in 
the immediate vicinity of the island, its resistance would 
not only be quickly and completely ended, but the success 
of the combined efforts of Spain and England, to destroy 
this traffic in human beings, would immediately announce, 
both to Brazil and the American States, that the days of 
their slavery were numbered. If these means be employed 
to end the foreign slave trade, we should have to complain 
of its continuance but for a very short time. It would 
almost instantly vanish, and instead of England continuing 
to enter into useless treaties, and being burdened with the 
heavy expense of commissioning ships to prevent its pro- 
gress, we should only have to reflect on ourselves for not 
having acted more promptly in destroying this traffic by 
the instrumentality we had in our power to use, and which 
when tried produced the desired effect. 

If objections be raised against these measures on account 



36 



of their apparent severity, such persons should transfer 
their feelings to the murderous hold of a slave ship, to the 
foreign markets in which the victims are sold, and to the 
mines in which they are doomed to labour. Let them survey 
the whole process of cruelty inflicted on millions of their 
felloiv-creatures, from their embarkation on the African 
coast, to the end of their short but suffering existence. 
Let them remember that the prosperity or ruin of eight 
hundred thousand negroes, emancipated in the British 
colonies, is involved in the continuance or destruction of 
the foreign slave trade. And let them not forget that 
other nations are vigilantly observing the effect of emanci- 
pation in the British islands, the operation of which will 
determine the future policy of these Governments respect- 
ing the continuance or removal of slavery from their own 
colonies. The natural result of these reflections will 
justify this country in the use of such means as have been 
proposed to end the slave trade. There is a kind of philan- 
thropy, my Lord, discovered at the present day, in the 
justice or compassion of which I am not desirous to parti- 
cipate. Its relations are entirely to the culprit who suffers 
for his guilt, without the least commiseration for those 
ivho have been the unmerited victims of his crime. It can 
weep most copiously at the sight of an inhuman monster 
enduring the consequence of his heinous offences against 
society, whilst there is not the least expression of sympathy 
for those on whom his conduct has inflicted the heaviest 
bereavement and most irreparable injury. 

In whatever light you consider the traffic in slaves, it 
presents a more extensive violation of every moral principle 
than any other crime, if love to God and our neighbour 
are the two commandments which imply all the other pre- 
cepts of the Decalogue, then the slave trade must be as 
insulting to the Creator as it is injurious to His creature. 
It tramples, ruins, and destroys the very being who was 
formed in the image of Him that made him, and conse- 
quently must be actuated by every principle that is equally 
hostile to the claims of Deity and the interests of the 
human race. If there is any connection to be observed 



37 



between the divine administration and the punishment of 
crime in this world, then the enormity of varied guilt which 
this depraved traffic involves will certainly be visited by the 
hand of Providence on those who not only practise it, but 
on such as support it, either by an indifference to its exist- 
ence whilst they have it in their power to destroy it, or by 
the enaction of laws to perpetuate its continuance. 

Such is the influence of the slave trade and the system 
it continues to support, that, in whatever country it 
exists, its demoralizing effects are not confined to the 
wretched victims of this oppression. The general habits of 
a large proportion of the free people, from the lowest even 
to the highest grades in society, are ignorant and tyrannical, 
vicious and cruel, intemperate and blasphemous, dishonest 
and debauched. The very sources of justice are polluted 
amongst them, and the law itself is perverted to the worst 
of purposes. The professional practise of it, and especially 
as it relates either to the protection or recovery of property, 
is almost entirely used as a scheme of protraction and 
intrigue, of deception and fraud. We need no further 
evidence of the correctness of this assertion, than that which 
every country can supply where the slave trade is encou- 
raged to recruit and strengthen its kindred system. An 
Englishman accustomed to good society in his native land, 
if passing through South Carolina, Orleans, or Georgia, 
would be forcibly struck with the encrusted ignorance, 
the ferocity of countenance, the malevolent grin, the 
brutal manners, the violent tempers, the revengeful dispo- 
sitions, and the cruel demeanour of the generality of 
slave-dealers, whilst the numerous duels and frequent 
assassinations, either by the avengers or their hired substi- 
tutes to perform them, abundantly prove the little value they 
attach, not merely to the life of a negro, but to the exist- 
ence of one another. At so low an ebb is commercial 
integrity in these enslaved American States, that in what- 
ever mercantile circle you move in Great Britain that may 
have transactions with them, you are constantly and 
universally hearing complaints respecting the almost 
total deficiency of their moral principle, which is essen- 



38 



tial to render trade respectable and confidential, honourable 
and safe. 

Nor is there any difficulty to trace this mean and fraudu- 
lent propensity to its real source. The people amongst 
whom little else distinguishes society but slave dealing 
and oppression, cruelty and blood, with which they 
are constantly familiarized, as in some of the Ame- 
rican States, have no hesitation in departing from the 
easy and mild, the reasonable and straight forward 
regulations of commercial equity. The man who can 
buy and sell his fellow -creature without any remorse, will, 
if opportunity offers, defraud his mercantile correspondent. 
All the barriers that conscience can erect against injustice 
and fraud, are completely levelled and destroyed by a par- 
ticipation in this morally injurious traffic, and consequently 
the slave-dealer is prepared to commit any dishonesty by 
which he can advance his own interest, and at the same time 
escape with impunity. 

If the morality of a country may be estimated by the kind 
of punishment which it inflicts on offenders against the 
law, then the following statement of the execution of a 
slave in Georgia for killiug his master, will be most amply 
sufficient of itself to prove the truth of the demoralizing 
effects of slavery in the American States. Instead of 
depriving the negro of life in the same manner as it 
would be taken from any other murderer, he was made to 
expire by a mode of dreadful and protracted torture. A 
strong stake was driven firmly into the ground, to which 
one end of a chain a few yards in length was united, whilst 
the other end of it was rivetted around the body of the 
criminal — thus permitting him to move around the stake 
in a circle whose diameter would be twice the length of the 
chain. At a short distance from the extent of the circle a 
tremendous fire was kindled around it, not sufficiently close 
to the negro to burn him instantly to death, and thus rapidly 
to end his sufferings, but allowing such a space between 
him and the fire, as gradually to roast him till he expired, 
and afterwards to consume his body in the flames. The 
tortured man sometimes ran with great rapidity around the 



circle, as if fleeing from the heat ; at other times lie clung 
closely to the stake in the centre, that he might be at a dis- 
tance from the flame ; he frequently leaped as high as the 
length of his chain would allow him, and then endeavoured 
to descend violently head foremost to the ground, with 
the intention of escaping his torture by immediately ending 
his life. Had the criminal been a free man this mode 
of execution would not have been adopted, the bar- 
barity of which was entirely intended to defend the system 
of slavery and the persons who practised it, by deterring 
the negroes from similar acts of violence against their 
masters, however tyrannical and cruel. Of what materials 
that society must be composed which could require such 
horrible means to preserve it, no one will have any 
difficulty to form a correct opinion, and will not only 
believe in the existence of all its stated and accumulated 
guilt, but will join both heart and hand to destroy the 
base system under which it exists, as the great source of all 
the varied depravity it presents. If the truth of this brutal 
and barbarous execution be questioned, every doubt will be 
removed when it is known to depend on the testimony of a 
gentleman, a resident in Bristol, whose name in the esti- 
mation of all his fellow-citizens is inseparable from the 
highest veracity, integrity, and honour, and who himself 
was in Georgia at the time this disgraceful and inhuman 
punishment was inflicted. 

In concluding this Letter, my Lord, I cannot but ex- 
press my unshaken conviction that slavery is rapidly 
approaching its end. In the Brazils and American States 
it must shortly expire, and if strong measures be adopted 
to destroy the traffic in human beings, very much will be 
done to accelerate the overthrow of the system in these 
countries to which it has given birth, and where it still 
continues to impart strength. Slavery can never exist very 
long if deprived of the aid of its kindred trade. The fountain 
being exhausted, the stream must naturally fail, and 
although it may linger for a short time after the traffic 
is ended, it must rapidly expire ; and those lands, which 
have been brutalized and cursed with its diabolical influ- 



40 



ence, will flourish under the dominion of those just and 
profitable principles which have rendered England the 
terror of despots, the envy of other nations, and the boast 
of every man who has perception adequate to appreciate her 
invaluable advantages, and gratitude sufficient to acknow- 
ledge her incomparable blessings. 

I have the honour to be, my Lord, 

Your Lordship's obedient humble Servant, 

THOMAS ROBERTS. 
Bristol, Feb. 24, 1836. 



Printed at the Bristol Mirror Office by John Taylor, 



