CORRESPO^ DENCE 

RELATr E 

TO THT. 
OF THE 

FREE PEOPLE OF COLOUR, 




P IJV THE UJVITEn S T^TES. 



TOGETHER WITH 




THE INSTRUCTIONS TO THE AGENT 

SENT OUT BY 

71lESZDS2ffT 80YER. 



# 
# 



m 



Weto-iotit; 



PRINTED BY MAHLON DAY, 
NO. 372, PR ' FL'STRK£T. 



1824. 



<»»IL# 



CORRESPONDENCE 

RELATIVE 



TO THE 



]SllII©IBii®l®SI ^® SIAirSIla, 



OF THE 



tREB PEOPLE OF COLOUR, 

IN THE UNITED STATES. 

TOGETHER WITH 

THE INSTRUCTIONS TO THE AGENT 

SENT OUT BY 

PRSSXDESTT BOYEZl. 



WetB=¥otft: 

PRINTED BY MAHLON DAYj 

NO. 372, PEARL-STRSET, 



J 824. 






«wi 



In prosecuting an agency in belialf of the noble objects of the Ameri^- 
can Colonization Society, I found the public feeling generally was very 
favourable to the Emigration of the Coloured People to Hayti. A- 
mong the Coloured People themselves, a preference of Hayti over 
Africa was frequently expressed^ and among the whites, there was not 
only an opposition to colonization in Africa manifested by many, but 
an assurance given of their ready aid to promote emigration to Hayti. 
The present peaceful state of the island, and the fair prospects before 
the Haytien.s, of having their Independence acknowledged by other 
nations, indicated that the great obstacles in the way of emigration 
there, which had hitherto existed, were removed, and that the time 
had now come to aid our coloured population to plant themselves 
under the mild climate of that Island, were it encouraged by the Haytien 
government. On inquiry, I found very little was known definitely 
ill this country, what the views of that government were, on this sub- 
ject. There were some favourable reports brought by persons of 
colour who had been to Hayti ; others gave discouraging accounts. 
Except some liberal offers, by the Secretary Inginac, which I had seen, 
the information obtained, was limited and uncertain. Under these 
circumstances, the letter with which the Correspondence commences, 
was addressed through the Secretary General, B. Inginac, to the Presi- 
dent of Hayti. The generous reply of the President, together with 
the arrival in this country, of his agent. Citizen J. Granville, with 
ample means to carry into effect, the philanthropic overtures of Presi- 
dent Boyer, shows what great good may now be hoped for our unhap- 
py countrymen, who are the objects of his generosity. 

I will add, that perhaps I did not write so explicidy as to leave no room 
for doubt, whether I wrote as the agent, and at the direction of the 
American Colonization Society,or not ; yet, if more explicitness (and 
the want of it was unintentional,) had prevented the reply of the Presi- 
dent, few, probably will regret that the delinquency occurred, even 
though they may not excuse the delinquent. 

' L. D. DEWEY, 

Xno- Yorh June 1 5^ .1 S24. 



COailESFOl^DSNOB. 



New-York, March 4, 1824. 

To His Excellency, the President of Hayti. 
President Boyer, — 

The important and interesting subject on which 
I write, is my reason for addressing myself, directly to 
the Chief Magistrate of Hayti. My duty as Agent of 
the American Colonization Society, as well as my own 
feelings, leads me to desire information on every point 
that looks like affording benefit to my unhappy colour- 
ed countrymen. The first view would suggest that 
mutual benefit might result to them and your nation, 
by their settlement in your Island. But a moment's 
reflection, shows, that, this must depend on the cir- 
cumstances und^r which they shall find themselves 
placed, when removed to Hayti. I am not ignorant 
that you have made offers of a favourable kind, and 
that even late information from an ehfiigrant with you, 
shows, that you afford them some strong motives to 
migrate to your Island ; yet I am ignorant of many 
things, which would be necessary to be known before 
their emigration could be aided by the Colonization 
Society. 

Will you then, Mr. President, furnish me informa- 
tion on the following points, for which I shall be truly 
grateful, and which may be very useful to the coloured 
people of this country ? 



1. Were a number of families to migrate to Hayti, 
would your government defray any part of the expen- 
ses of the voyage, assign them land to cultivate, and 
aid them to stock their farms ? 

2. To what extent would your government encour- 
age emigration — how much allow to each family for 
expense of passage — how much land to each family — 
and how much aid to stock each farm — and to how 
many families or individuals would all this assistance 
be given ? 

3. What encouragement would be offered to mecha- 
nics and merchants ? 

4. Though no assistance were given, would the op- 
portunity to come and settle in your Island, to any and 
to all who might choose to migrate there, be given in 
the same unrestricted manner in which our govern- 
ment gives it to all emigrants from other countries — 
what would be the cost of lands to such, and could 
they obtain it in large quantities, so that numbers could 
settle down in the same neighbourhood ? 

5. How far is toleration extended to different re- 
ligions ? 

6. What are your laws in reference to marriage, and 
what is the state of society in this respect ? 

7. How far are schools supported ? 

8. Would your government allow the Society to 
plant a colony in your Island, having its own laws, 
courts, and legislature, in all respects like one of the 
States of the United States, and con?iected with and 
subject to the government of Hayti, only as each state 
is with our general government ; and would land be 
furnished for such a colony ? 

Full information on these points would be esteemed 



a great favour, and were the answer in the affirmative 
to the 8th inquiry, or to the first part of it, if land 
could he purchased in sufficient quantity and at a suit- 
able rate, I think something would soon be done to 
plant a colony under your government. 

You, Sir, are aware of the difficulties to be encoun- 
tered in forwarding such a settlement in the man- 
ner the Colonization Society would do it. The 
funds to effect it, being voluntary aid, the givers must 
be well satisfied, that it will go to benefit those for 
whom it is given ; they will therefore inquire closely 
into the advantages of government, liberty, Sic, which 
the coloured people are to have, by emigrating ; and 
the coloured people themselves must be well satisfied, 
as to their prospects. Although, their condition here, 
is, in most, lamentable ; yet, being long accustomed 
to it, and in a great degree ignorant, uneducated, even 
the nominally free, they are not aware how bad it is, 
and therefore must have some very obvious advanta- 
ges to gain, before they will change it. 

There are many whites who truly lament their un* 
happy lot, mourn over their wrongs, and would gladly do 
any thing to redress them; but they find that such is their 
degradation, and public opinion towards the coloured 
people, that it is next to impossible to elevate them in 
moral character, and to benefit them in this country. 
The abolition laws passed in this state and others, have 
only tended to diminish their numbers and their means 
of support, without giving them any real advantage 
in their moral or civil condition, I speak of the mass. 

These benevolent men, therefore, are looking for an 
asylum for these injured sons of Africa, in some other 
country, and they believe, that should the government 



of Hayti, be able to unite with them, very much for 
the welfare of the descendants of Africans, and the 
ultimate benefit of Hayti, might be effected. 

I hope. Sir, this will meet with that favourable re- 
ception you are accustomed to give to objects of high 
importance. 

I take the liberty to forward to you a Report, which 
will give you some information as to the designs and 
operations of the Society. 

With high respect, I subscribe myself a sincere 
well-wisher to the prosperity of your government, 
and an ardent friend to the injured sons of Africa. 

LORING D. DEWEY. 



■■ -^ @ c^^ 



[translation.] 

Liberty. Equality. 

REPUBLIC OF HAYTI. 

Port-au-Prince, SOth April, 1824 

YEAR OF INDEPENDENCE, THE 21st, 

Jean Pierre Boyer, President of Hayti, to Mr. Loring 
D. Dewey, General Agent of the Society for African 
Colonization, at New- York. 

Sir, — I had the satisfaction to receive the letter of 
the 4th of March last, which you addressed to me ; 
the contents of which breathe the most perfect philan- 
thropy. To consecrate our cares to meliorate the lot 
of a portion of the human race, sadly borne down by 
the weight of misfortune, is to prove the excellence of 
one's heart, and to acquire an eternal right to the 
gratitude of every living creature that can feel. And 
the step which you have taken in reference to me, in 



favour of the descendants^of the Africans, who are 
in the United States, and who are compelled to leave 
the country, because that, far from enjoying the rights of 
freemen, they have only an existence, precarious and 
full of humiliation, entitles you to the gratitude of the 
Haytiens, who cannot see with indifference the calami- 
ties which afflict their brethren. 

As soon as I was informed of the resolution taken in 
the United States to transport into Africa our unhappy 
brethren, and thus to restore them to their native sky, I 
comprehended the policy which had suggested this 
measure, and at the same time conceived a high 
opinion of those generous men, who Were disposed 
to make sacrifices, in the hope of preparing for the 
unfortunate persons who were its objects, an asylum 
where their existence would be supportable. Thence- 
forward, by a sympathy very natural, my heart and my 
, arms have been open to greet, in this land of true 
liberty, those men upon whom a fatal destiny rests in 
a manner so cruel. I considered the colonization 
of barbarous regions with men accustomed to live 
in the midst of civilized people, as a thing impractica- 
ble, to say nothing more. The experiment made at 
Sherbro' and at Messurado, prove that I was not far 
from the truth. In fine, sir, although Africa be the 
cradle of their fathers, what a frightful prospect is it 
to see themselves exiled to insalubrious climes, after 
having inhaled the healthful breezes of the land of 
their birth ! 

I have often asked myself, why Hayti, whose climate 
is so mild, and whose government is analogous to that 
of the United States, was not preferred as their place of 
refuge. Fearing that my sentiments would be misin- 



8 

terpreted, if I made the first overture, I contented my- 
self with having explained to those of them who came 
to Hayti, all the guarantees and rights that the consti- 
tution of the Republic has established in their favour, 
I have aided in freeing those from debt who could not 
quite pay for their passage ; I have given land to those 
who wished to cultivate it ; and by my circular, of the 
date of the 24th December, 1823, to the officers of 
districts, (of which I send you a copy,) you will con- 
vince yourself that I have prepared for the children of 
Africa, coming out of the United States, all that can 
assure them of an honourable existence in becoming 
citizens of the Haytien Republic. But now that you 
make overtures, which seem to be authorised by the 
respectable Society of which you are the general agent,* 
I am about to answer frankly to the eight questions 
which you have addressed to me. 

1. " If a number of families," &c. The Government 
of the Republic will aid in defraying part of the expen- 
ses of the voyage of those who cannot bear them, 
provided the Colonization Society will do the rest. 
The government will give fertile lands to those who 
wish to cultivate them, will advance to them nourish- 



* It is proper here to state, that in addressing the letter of inquiry 
to President Boyer, I did not sign my letter as Agent of the American 
Colonization Society, nor write under the direction of the Society, 
but at my own suggestion, to gain information, supposing that it would 
be for the benefit of the Society ; knowing also that the Society, would 
act as it should see best. It was the prosperity of the Society at which 
I aimed, and it is with deep regret that I find they will not strengthen 
their hands for Africa by this measure, as I have never doubted the 
feasibility of effecting the settlement of our Coloured People on that 
Continent. — L.D.Dewey. 



ment, tools, and other things of indispensable necessity 
until they shall be sufficiently established to do without 
this assistance. 

2. " To what extent in number, " &:c. No matter 
what number of emigrants; all those who will come 
with the intention to submit themselves to the laws of 
the country, shall be well received. The price of pas- 
sage and other expenses shall be discussed by agents 
to obtain the most advantage ais conditions. The 
quantity of ground shall be as muc h as each family can 
cultivate. For the rest, the utmost good-will to the 
new-comers shall be the basis of the arrangements. 

3. "What encouragement will be given to Mecha- 
nics and Merchants, " &c. They shall have perfect 
liberty to labour in their respective professions. The 
only privilege will be an exemption from the law of 
patent for the first year.* 

4. " Will opportunity be given, " &c. All those, I 
repeat it, who will come shall be received, no matter 
what may be their number, provided they submit 
themselves to the laws of the slate, which are essen- 
tially liberal and protecting, and to the rules of the 
Police which tend to repress vagrancy, to maintain 
good order, and to confirm the tranquillity of all. 
There is no price to stipulate for, as respects the land *, 
since the government will give it gratis, in fee simple, 
to those who will cultivate it. The emigrants will be 
distributed in the most advantageous manner possible, 
and those who may desire it, shall be placed in the 
neighbourhood of each other. 

* To practise any profession or pursue any trade, it is necessary in 
Hayti to obtain a liccncf*, us Grocers, «tf , fio in New- York 



10 

They shall not be meddled with in their domestic 
habits, nor in their religious belief, provided they do 
not seek to make proselytes, or trouble those who pro- 
fess another fatlh than their own. 

What precedes, is an answer to your fifth' question! 
upon the toleration of different religions. 

6. " What are your laws relative to marriage, " &c. 
Marriage is encouraged, and good husbands and 

wives enjoy the same consideration as in other civiliz- 
ed countries. 

7. " How far are schools," &c. ? 

Every where, where there is a sufficiently numerous 
population, the government supports schools to instruct 
youth in literature, and in the principles of morality and 
virtue. 

8. " Will your government permit, " &c. ? 

That cannot be. The laws of the Republic are 
general— and no particular laws can exist. Those who 
come, being children of Africa, shall be Haytiens as 
soon as they put their feet upon the soil of Hayti : they 
will enjoy happiness, security, tranquillity, such asvve 
ourselves possess, however our defamers declare the 
contrary. 

In line, Sir, to prove to you what I am disposed to 
do in favor of our brethren who groan in the United 
States of America under the yoke of prejudice, lam 
about to send to New- York funds and a confidential 
agent, to enter into an understanding with you and the 
Colonization Society, with a view to facilitate the emi- 
gration to Hayti of the descendants of Africans, who 
are disposed to come and partake with us the most 
precious blessings which we enjoy under Divine Pro- 
vidence, 



11 

It must not be imagined that the want of an increased 
population in Hayli, is the motive which determines me 
to make this answer with the details into which I have 
entered. Views ofa higher order direct me. Animated 
with the desire to serve the cause of humanity, I have 
thought that a finer occasion could not have presented 
itself to offer an agreeable hospitality, a sure asylum, to 
the unfortunate men, who have the alternative of going 
to the barbarousshoresof Africa, where misery or certain 
death may await them. I shall not developethe advan- 
tages which will result to the people ofyour country, from 
transporting to Hayti, the Afffcan population of which 
they wish to be delivered. Every one can perceive 
perfectly that it will be an infallible means of augment- 
ing the commerce of the United States, by multiplying 
relations between two people, the similarity of whose 
principles of legislation and government ought neces- 
sarily to render them friends, although a blind prejudice 
seems until now to have put obstacles in the way of 
more direct relations between the one and the other. 
Light and philanthropy will doubtless cause justice 
and reason to triumph. 

You will speedily. Sir, see the arrival in New-York of 
the agent I am to send. 

I have the honour to salute you with my most dis- 
tinguished consideration. 

BOYER, 



12 

[translation.] 
CIRCULAR. 

Port-au-Prince, 24:th December^ 1823. 
Jean Pierre Boyer, President of Hayti, to the Com- 
mandants of the Districts. 

Desirous to increase in the country the number of 
agriculturalists, and thus augment its population, I 
have decided, mj dear General, that emigrants of 
colour to Hayti, who may wish to establish themselves 
in the mountains or vallies to cultivate with their own 
hands the public lands, shall be authorized to cultivate 
the same for their ow n profit. These lands, after pay- 
ment of the taxes established by the authority of the 
place, shall be ceded in fee simple, to those who open 
them and enhance their value, dividing them into sui- 
table plantations for the produce of coffee and other 
productions which -may yield a revenue to the state. 
You are therefore charged so far as your authority ex- 
tends, to settle the people of colour who may arrive, or 
who may wish to disembark and establish themselves 
in the district which you command, and to send me a 
list of the names of all such persons^ and a description 
of the land given them. 

It is understood, that this measure is not to change 

that prescribed by my circular of 2d December, 1 822, 

in favour of the persons, who, anterior to the first of last 

January, should be established without title upon the 

state lands. Signed, 

BOYER. 



O 

[translation.] 

Liberty. Equality: 

REPUBLIC OF HAYTI. 

Port-au-Prince, Itli May, 1824. 

21st YEAR OF THE INDEPENDENCE. 

B. Inginac, Brigade General and Secretary General 
of His Excellency the President of Hayti, to Mr. 
Loring D. Dewy, General Agent of the American 
Society of Colonization, &;c. &c. 

Sir, 

I have had the pleasure to receive the letter 

"which you wrote me of the 4th March last. The papers 
enclosed and the letter have been handed to his Ex- 
cellency the President of Hayti ; and by this favoura- 
ble opportunity, you will receive the answer of the 
President. 
I have, with the highest consideration, the honour to 

salute you. 

B. INGINAC. 

[translation.] 

Liberty. Equality. 

REPUBLIC OF HAYTI. 

Port-au-Prince, 25th of May, 1824 

21st YEAR OF OUR INDEPENDENCE. 

John Pierre Boyer, President of Hayti, to Mr. Loring 
D. Dewy, General Agent of the Society for African 
Colonization, at New- York. 

Sir, — 

Agreeably to a letter which I wrote to you 
on the 30th of April last, in reply to that you addresseal 



14 

to me of the 4th of March preceding, on the subject of 
the emigration to Hayti of a portion of the children of 
•Africa who are in the United States, I now announce 
toyoa that I send to you and the Philanthropic Society 
of which you arethe agent,the citizen Granville, Substi- 
tute of the commissary of Government at the tribunal 
of Cassation,* who will deliver you this despatch. He 
is the bearer of my particular instructions, and will 
communicate them to you, which renders it unneces- 
sary to enter at present into the details of his mission. 
I shall then, Sir, only entreat you to make every effort 
to forward the success of the great object, we both 
have in view. You cannot better serve the cause of 
humanity, since those of our brethren, who drag out 
in the United States a painful and degrading existence, 
"will become, on arriving at Hayti, citizens of the 
Republic, and can there labour with security and ad- 
vantage to themselves and children. During the 
happy days which await them here, they will preserve 
the memory of your devotion to their cause ; they will 
bless your name, and the happiness they will enjoy will 
be your sweetest reward, 

I recommend to your care, the citizen Granville, 
during his stay in the United States, begging you to 
give him all necessary advice, and make known to him 
all persons, who can aid him in the success of the mis- 
sion with which he is chari;ed. 

I saluteyou with the most distinguished consideration. 

BOYER. 



* The Tribunal of Cassation is the Supreme Court of the Island, 
of which citizen Granvillcj is one of the highest judicial and exiecutive 

officers. 



15 

[XRANSLATtON.] 

Liberty ' Equality, 

REPUBLIC OF HAYTI. 

Port au-Privce, May 25t/i, 1824. 

IN THE 21st YEAR OF OUR INDEPENDENCE. 

Jean Pierre Boyer, President of Hayti, to Mr, Charles 
CollhiSj New- York. 

Sir, — The knowledge that I have obtained of your 
philanthropic sentiments, has induced me to direct 
the citizen Imbert, Secretary of Slate to this Republic, 
to send you fifty thousand weight of coffee, begging 
you to sell this commodity, and, after having reali- 
zed the proceeds, to keep them on account of the Hay- 
tien government. This fund and others which shall 
be added to it, are destined to facilitate the emigration 
of such individuals of the African race, who, groaning 
in the United States, under the weight of prejudice and 
misery, should be disposed to come to Hayti and par- 
take with our citizens the benefits of a liberal constitu- 
tion, and a paternal government. 

Afterthe numerous communications which have been 
addressed to me, by several of your most distinguished 
compatriots, relative to the emigration to Hayti of these 
children ofAfrica,! have determined to send to the United 
StateSjthe citizen Granville,Substitute of the Commissa- 
ry of the Government at the tribunal of Cassation, who 
will deliver you this. He is bearer of a letter of introduc- 
tion to Mr. Loring D. Dewey,General Agent of the Socie- 
ty for African Colonization, who has written to me him- 
self on this subject, also of my full instructions which 
he will communicate to you. I beg that you will as- 
sist him with your good advice, and recommeiid him 
to your numerous friends, so that he may attain with 



16 

more ease the end that I propose, in taking a step 
which will turn so entirely to the promotion of humani- 
ty, the cause of which you espouse in so disinterested 
a manner. I also beg that you will put at his disposal, 
or his order, such part of the funds which you will 
receive, on account of the Republic, as shall be judg- 
ed necessary to defray the expense of removing 
those individuals, who reside in the interior, and 
are not possessed of means to convey them to 
a place of embarkation, where they may take 
advantage of the opportunity that is offered them 
to come and gain amongst us an honest liveli- 
hood, and leave to their children, a sure inheritance 
and the enjoyment of all the political rights that men 
in society can reasonably desire. 

You have, Sir, for a long time consecrated your wake- 
ful hours to the means of alleviating the sufferings 
of a portion of the human species, against whom pre- 
possession and prejudice act with pitiless rigour, so that 
1 do not doubt you will seize the present occasion to 
render your past efforts, and those of your friends, suc- 
cessful. \1 hat joy will it give hearts like yours, to see 
these scions of Africa, so abased in the United States, 
where they vegetate with no more utility to themselves 
than to the soil which nourishes them, transplanted to 
Hayti, where they will become no loss useful than es- 
timable, because the enjoyment of civil and political 
rights, ennobling them in their own eyes, cannot fail to 
attach them to regular habits^ and the acquisition of so- 
cial virtues, and to render them worthy by their good 
conduct, to enjoy the benefits which their new country 
wall bestow upon them ! But the emigrants alone will 
not reap the fruit of your exertions. The United States 



17 

will find their commerce with Havti enlar2;efl bv the 
frequent intercourse which these new Haytiens will na- 
turally hold with the country they have left. 

If you think it proper to give publicity to this proce- 
dure, you are at liberty to do so. I leave it entirely to 
your prudence, well convinced, that you will pursue 
the best means to interest your friends in the success of 
the present enterprize, not only in the State of New- 
York, but in the northern States, and in Pennsylvania. 
What a claim, Sir, will you and your honourable 
friends have to the gratitude of those whose tears you 
will wipe away by procuring; them a kind reception 
among their countrymen, ;heir brothers, their natural 
friends. I conjure you then to neglect nothing, in con- 
curring with me to retrieve these unfortunates from the 
humiliation and vexation with which they are over- 
whelmed. In so laudable an enterprise, God, who is 
the father of all men, will assist our efforts, 
I salute you with the most distinguished consideration. 

BOYER. 

-SMlll|<^|lllle- 

New-York, 6th Mo. (June) \7fh, 1824. 
The reply of Presi lent Boyer was received on the 
31st of 5th Mo. (May,) and the 9th of 6th Mo. (June,) 
his Official Agent, Citizen J. Granville arrived at Phi- 
ladelphia, and in this city the 13th. The following are 
his instructions from his government : — 

[translation.] 
Instructions to the Citizen J. Granville, Substitute of 
the Commissary of Government, at the tribunal of 
Cassation dispatched to the United States of Ameri- 
ca, to confer and act in concert with the Philanthro- 

3 



18 

pic and Benevolent Societies of said States, and all 
others whom it shall concern, in order to facilitate 
the emigration to Hayti, of all persons of African 
blood, who, enjoying their freedom, will come volun- 
tarily to the Repub.ic, where they may exercise their 
civil and political rights, and participate in the bene- 
fits of our institutions. 

Citizen,— 

You are not ignorant that there exist in 
the United States of America, several hundred thou- 
sand individuals of African bloo(l, who, on account of 
the dark hue of their complexions, are objects of all 
the prejudice and prepossession that can arise from 
difference of colour; that under a system so outrageous 
to humanity, some of them in their despair have de- 
prived themselves of a wretched existence : others de- 
based by ignorance, and exasperated by misfortune, 
have become turbulent and dangerous, and that a great 
number deprived of the means of exercising an ho- 
nest industry, either rural or mechanical, are forced to 
live in idleness and vagrancy. The lot of these un- 
happy victims of prejudice, has moved the compas- 
sion of certain philanthropists, who have conceived 
the idea of founding societies for the purpose of pro- 
curing these children of Africa, an asylum on their 
native soil, where, established In colonies, and govern- 
ing themselves, they may live free from all vexation. 
But experience has proved, that the project of forming 
such settlements on the Coast of Africa was impracti- 
cable, because the climate being unhealthy, and the 
country peopled by nations, yet barbarous, the emi- 
grants were exposed to great danger, if not death ; and 
perished, many of them in spite of the generous sacri- 



19 

fices of the honourable society formed in the United 
States to carry their colonization into effect. 

In this deplorable state of things, men of philanthro- 
pic sentiments, and souls truly charitable and benevo- 
lent, have turned their thoughts towards Hayti, which 
they have rightly considered as a more proper place 
of refuge for these unfortunates than the inhospitable 
sands of Africa. Accordingly, numerous communica- 
tions were addressed to me, inquiring, if those, so 
nearly related to us in blood, could find in our Repub- 
lic, that hospitality which their paternal land denied 
them. To these inquiries from private individuals, I 
have replied in a favourable manner, explaining all the 
advantages that our constitution has taken care to as- 
sure to those of our brothers who come from other 
parts of the globe and establish themselves among us. 
My replies did not fail to produce a favourable result. 
Already have we seen arrive in our ports, several of 
these children of Africa, who have come from the Uni- 
ted States, and have fixed themselvesherCjSomeof them 
in the country, where cultivation repays their toil with 
interest, others in our cities, where they are engaged in 
a lucrative trade, or pursue with advantage some me- 
chanical profession, happy at being delivered from the 
degrading yoke of prejudice. 

Their great numbers had caused me to conceive, from 
the first, a project which by increasing emigration, 
would have fulfilled the views of the philanthropists of 
the United States, and have meliorated the condition 
of these unfortunates. But the fear that the unjust pre- 
judices entertained abroad, against the Republic of 
Hayti, would misinterpret my intentions, then preven- 
ted me from taking any public steps, which I do not 



20 

at present hesitate to do, because, I received in the 
course of last April, an official communication from 
Mr. Loring D. Dewej, General Agent of the Society 
for African Colonization, at New-York, to ascertain 
the terms on which the Haytien dovernment would 
consent to the emigration of these sons of Africa. 

In consequence of this, and of the knowled2:e that I 
have of your patriotism, tiie liberality of your princi- 
ples, and your devotion to the great cause that we 
have constantly defended, and will always maintain 
with the same energv, I have chosen and appointed 
you, agent of the Government of the Republic, so that 
you must repair to New- York, or to other places in 
the United vStates, where you will be permitted to 
travel, and there you will confer with Mr. Loring D. 
Dewey in his office of General Agent to the Society 
for African Colonization, with the Society itself and 
all other persons, qualified to take part in this affair, 
as well as with those who being disposed to emigrate, 
are at liberty to contract for themselves. 

To this effect, I give you the following instructions, 
and deliver you a certified translation of the letter of 
Mr. Loring D. Dewey on the side A with a copy of 
my answer side B, then a copy C. of the constitution, 
finally a copy D of my circular to the governors of the 
provinces, dated 24th of Dec. 1823. 
ARTICLE I 

On arriving at New- York, you will confer with 
Messrs. Loring D. Dewey and Charles (^ollins, to 
whom you will communicate yo r present instructions ; 
you will ask their counsel and advice, which you will 
follow as far as they may comport with the end of your 
mission. You will also deliver ^dl the letters of in- 
troduction of which you are the bearer. 



21 

ARTICLE II. 

You will inform yourself of the laws, re2:ulations, 
and Usages of the places tiirough which you pass, so 
that you can conform to them and act accordingly. 
AKTU Li. III. 

After the preliminary visit, according to the first 
article, you will .seek the members of the different 
reii2:ious and philanthnpic ^ocletie!«, to inform them 
of the object of >our visit ; and as you must always 
act with loyalty and good fa.th, you will not fail to 
communicate to those interested in the success of 
your mission, the tenor of the instructions and do- 
cuments which 1 have delivered to you. 
AKTR LE iV. 

The constitution having established by the 44th 
article, that all individuals of African blood, who will 
appear in the Republic, shall, after a years residence, 
enjoy the civil and political rights and quality of a 
citizen, you must invite yourse'f and by the interven- 
tion of Mr. Loring D. Dewey, and Mr. Charles 
Collins, and all other persons with whom you may 
confer, such among them as shall be disposed to quit 
the United States, to come and establish themselves 
in the Hepublic, and induce them, as soon as possible, 
to undertake the voyage, acquainting them with all 
the advantages which are insured to them by the 
constitution ; and more especially those the govern- 
ment is ready to j2:rant to them, to relieve them 
from the state of humiliation and misery in which 
they are plunged. 

ARTICLE V. 

The advantages whicli attend emii^ration are, 1st, 
that they shall enjoy in llayti, all civil and political 



22 

rights, (Article 44th of the Constitution ;) 2diy, they 
shall have entire liberty of conscience, in their religious 
praclices ; 3rdly, they shall obtain concession of land in 
fee simple, when they shall have made settlements on ihe 
said lands, (copy of my circular to the governors of the 
provinces ;) the whole, provided, they engage to be 
faithful to the laws of the Republic, whose children 
and citizens they will become, and provided they un- 
dertake nothing contrary to its tranquillity and pros- 
perity. 

ARTICLE VI. 
To regulate better the interests of the emigrants, it 
will be proper to let them know in detail, what the 
government of the Republic is disposed to do, to as- 
sure their future well being, and that of their children, 
on the sole condition of their being good and indus- 
trious citizens ; you are authorized in concert w ith 
the agents of the different societies, and before civil 
authority, to make arrangements with heads of fami- 
lies, or other emigrants who can unite twelve people 
able to work, and also to stipulate that the govern- 
ment will give them a portion of land sufficient to 
employ twelve persons, and on which may be raised 
coffee, cotton, maize, peas, and other vegetables and 
provisions, and after they have well improved the 
said quantity of land, which will not be less than 36 
acres in extent, or 12 carreaux (the carreau being 100 
paces, square and the pace three feet and a half, 
French,) government will give a perpetual title to the 
said land to these twelve people, their heirs and as- 
signs."* 

* Asj according to a law of Hay ti, a person cannot hold less than five 



ARTICLE VIF. 

Those of the emigrants who prefer applying them- 
selves individually to the culture of the earth, either by 
renting lands already improved, which they will till, 
or by working in the field, to share the produce with 
the proprietor, must also engage themselves, by a 
legal act, that on arriving at Hayti, they will make 
the above mentioned arrangements, and this, they 
must do before the judges of the peace, so that on 
their arrival here, they will be obliged to apply them- 
selves to agriculture, and not be liable to become 
vagrants. 

ARTICLE Vin. 

To all those, and those only, who will engage them- 
selves, as it is prescribed according to the 6th Article, 
you are authorized, always acting in concert with the 
different societies, to contract, that the expense of 
their passage and maintenance during the voyage, 
shall be paid on their arrival at Hayti, by the govern- 
ment, which will give them also the means of subsis- 
tence during four months, after their landing and 
settlement on the ground they are to cultivate, which 
will be long enough for them to procure by their 
labour and settlement, the means of supporting them- 
selves. 

Nothing will be required of them for what may have 
been paid for their passage and subsistence, which is 
a donation made to them by the Republic. 
ARTICLE IX. 

As for those who wish to come to Hayti, to engage 



carrearux of land, the quantity of land given to the twelve persons will, 
as circumstances shall determine, exceed 12 carreaux. — Citizen Gran- 
vilte. 



-24 

in coniraercial or mechanical pursuits, you are author- 
ized to assure thera, that the expense of their passage, 
and maintenance during the voyage, shall be paid in 
Hayti, provided they bind theraselvts before civil au- 
thority in the United States, to return to the govern- 
ment of the Republic, six months after their arrival 
here, the advance which shall bn made to them The 
same privileo;e of advance, on condition of reimburse- 
ment shall be granted to tho^e who come to buy, 
rent, or till in shares, lands cultivated, or to be cul- 
tivated, or who come to ena^age themselves as ser- 
vants, workmen, or labourers, the law g^ranting a 
ri'ht to every Havtien, to exercise his industry as he 
p?eases, provided he does nothing contrary to the 
good order of society. 

ARTICLE X. 

If there are any families of African blood, disposed 
to emi2:rate to Hayti, whose unfortunate situation 
prevents them from defraying the expense of removal 
to a place of embarkation, you are authorized, act- 
ting with much prudence and discernment, and al- 
ways consulting the agency of the different societies, to 
make advances to them, provided they do not exceed 
six dollars a head for young people and adults ; the 
advance will be repayable six month after their 
arrival in Hayti, which must be stipulated in the obli- 
gatory contracts by those who receive it. 
ARTICLE XI 

The end which I propose, being to favour the emi- 
gration to Hayti, of those who are able to become, by 
our laws, citizens of the countrv, youou2:ht not to fail 
to consult all persons devoted to the cause of isummity, 
who are capable of giving you good advice, and after 



25 

©btaining their >vritten and well digested opinioa. 
you are authorized to consent to little expenses I may 
not have foreseen, and of which there is urgent neces- 
sity, and such as shall facilitate the execution of the 
enterprise. 

ARTICLE XII. 

You will declare to those whom it may concern, 
that no other privileges will be granted in Hayti to the 
emigrants than those enjoyed by the citizens of the 
state ; that therefore, they must come among us with 
the resolution of conforming to, and obeying our laws, 
which are all liberal, and beneficent, and which 
guarantee to all liberty of conscience, provided they 
do not disturb the public tranquillity. 
ARTICLE XIII. 

You will take the most efficacious measures to con- 
vey to the peninsula of Samana, forty artizans of 
African blood, such as carpenters, wood-sawyers, 
blacksmiths, caulkers, rope-makers, sail-maicers, &c., 
who would be capable of working in a timber-yard, 
at small vessels for cruising on the coasts of the country, 
which vessels will be bought from them by Government. 
If these workmen have wives and children, Government 
will give them land, suited to the cultivation of coffee? 
cane, and every other species of food, grain, and vege- 
tables which will be to them a very great advantage. 
ARTICLE XIV. 

To prevent paying exorbitant prices for their pas- 
sage and subsistence during the voyage, it will perhaps 
be better not only to provide provisions for them, but 
to freight ships, capable of conveying a certain num- 
ber of passengers, in case you cannot find opportuni- 
ties to transport the emigrants in the ordinary trading 



26 

vessels. (I am of opinion that fourteen dollars a head, 
comprising subsistence during the voyage would be a 
reasonable price for young persons and men, and half 
that sum will suffice for children under twelve years 
of age.) It must be well understood that the cost of 
provisions, the price of the passage, and the ship's 
freight will be paid only in Hayti, on the arrival of 
said passengers. 

ARTICLE XV. 

It will be necessary that the cultivators should 
possess farming implements, as far as possible for them- 
selves. If the societies for colonization are disposed 
to make donations to the emigrants, the amount of 
them can be employed by their agents, in the pur- 
chase of provisions or farming utensils, such as hoes, 
axes, scythes, ploughs, harrows, &c. 
ARTICLE XVI. 

Government having caused to be sent to Mr. Charles 
Collins, merchandize as afund for this purpose, you will 
receive from him, on your order, such monies as are ne- 
cessary to defray the expense of removals mentioned in 
Article 1 0th, the sum not to exceed 6000 dollars, which 
you will account for, in due form, and with proper 
vouchers at the end of your mission. 
ARTICLE XVII. 

The places, where I desire the emigrants to locate 
themselves, at the commencement of the enterprize^ 
and until the end of the present year, both for their 
own advantaofe and the amicuitural interests of the 
country are as follows : — 



27 

1, Port-ait-Prince District, at Mirebalais, culture 
of fine cotton, and all kinds of produce, a 
fertile quarter, - - - persons, 500 

Idem, for the quarter of Lescaobe, Lamatte, 
and Hinche, the culture of Coffee and pro- 
visions, ------ 300 

Idem, for the quarter of Grangers, Croehus, 
and Arcahaie, the culture of Coffee, - 200 



Total, 1000 

2. Cape Haytien, for Grand Riviere, Dondon, 

Marmelade, Limbe, Plaisance, Borgne and 
Port Margot,— coffee, - - - 1000 

3. Porte Plate, for Altamire, St. Yague, Moca, 

Macoris, and Lavega, — coffee, tobacco, and 
cocoa, ---_-.- 1000 

4. Samana, — coffee and provisions - - 200 

5. St. Domingo, for Seybo, Higoey, Monteplate, 

Boya, Bayaguana, Los Llanos, St. Christo- 
phe, Bany, — coffee, cocoa, and sugarcane, 1200 

6. Jacquemel, for Marigot, Neybe, and Baynet, — 

coffee and provisions, - - - 600 

7. Les Cayes and Jeremie, — coffee - - 500 

8. Gona'/ves, — cotton, - - - - 500 

Total, 6000 



ARTICLE XVUI. 

You will not fail to observe that this population of 
6000 souls, emigrating this year toHayti, will be placed 
in a situation to free themselves by their own industry, 
from misery and care ; forthey will find cleared lands, 
civilized and habitat^le regions, the resources of life, 



28 

and assistance in case of sickness — precious advanta- 
ges, of which they would be entirely deprived in 
Africa,, and could not hope to obtain there in iO years. 

All the places designated in the preceding article, 
offer the greatest advantages, both from the fertility 
of the soil and the mildness of the climate, which you 
must not fail to make known to the emigrants. 
ARTICLE XIX. 

You must not fail to correspond with me, and in- 
form me of all your proceedings and undertakings, in 
the execution of your mission. You will remain in 
the United States to observe the operations of 
emigration, until you receive new orders from me, and 
you will travel into the interior of the Northern States 
wherever you are permitted to go, and where you 
think your presence wii! determme those to emigrate 
who are disposed, and at liberty to do so. 

Pori-au-Prnce, May 25, 1824. 

m THE 21st YEAR OF OUR INDEPENDENCE. 

The President 

BOYER. 



Note —^Immediately on the receipt of President Boyer's letter, 1 in- 
formed the active members of the Board of the American Colonizaljon 
Society of its contents, and transmitted a translatitm as soon as possible, 
to ihe Secretary at Washington, Before the letter was made public 
in this city, I received an answer from Robert G. Harper, Esq., giving 
his opinion, that it was not expedient to blend the two objects of 
Africa and Hayti ; thai the more avenues opened tor this population into 
places suited to them, the better ; that it was desirable a Society for 
Hayti should be formed, distinct from the American Colonization 
Society, and that these Societies might be of mutual aid to each other. 
Before a public meeting was called, an official letter was received from 
the Secretary, signifying that the Society would have nothing to do 
with the propositions of President Boyer Having ascertained this, 
■ and Citizen J. Granville having arrived, the course Avas plain to present 
the generous offers of the President of Hayti to the citizens of New- 
York, of which the following is the result. 

L. D. DEWEY. 

^Ncio-York, June 30, 1824-^. 



29 

At a Meeting of Citizens, held at the room of the Historical Society, 
to take iotc» consideration, certain propositions made by the President 
of the Republic of Hayti, relative to the Emigiation of' Persons of 
Colour from the United States to the Island of Hayti : 

The Rev. Dr. SPRirsG was called to the Chair, and H. Ketchum 
chosen Secretary. 

The business of the Meeting was opened and explained by Mr. 
Dewey, and the communications of President Boyer read by the Secretary. 
After some general discussion upon the business of the Meeting, a 
Resolution was proposed by Dr. Wainwright, which, after some amend- 
ments, passed as follows : — 

Resolved, That a Committee of Nine be appointed to take into 
consideration the documents submitted to this Meeting in relation to 
the Emigration of Coloured Persons t« Hayti, and that this Committee 
be directed to gain information in relation to this subject, and report 
to an adjourned meeting, to be held on Friday the 25ih inst. — The 
following are the names of the Committee : — 

THOMAS EDDY, JOSEPH SMITH, 

J. WAINVVRlGtST, ISA\C COLLINS, 

H. KETCHUM SAMUEL COWDREY, 

GEORGE NEWBOLD, JOHN GRISCOM. 
PETER A. JAY, 
The Meeting then adjourned to Friday the 25th inst. at 6 P.M. 
June 18<A, 1824. H. KETCHUM, Secretahy. 

At an adjourned meeting of citizens convened, to take into conside- 
ration the propositi nis of President Hoyer, relative to the emigration 
of tree persons of colour to llayu, held in llie T'.ew York Institution on 
Friday the 25th inst. PETER A. JAY, Esquire, wtis called to the 
Chyir, and H. KETCHUM chosen Secretary. The Chair was sub- 
sequently resumed by Thos. Eddy, who presided at the former meeting. 

The Committee previously appointed, of which Mr. Eddy was 
Chairman, introduced the following Report, which, after being read 
by the Secretary, was accepted : — 

The Committee appointed at a meeting of citizens, held on the I8th 
instant to take into consideration the documents submitted to the 
meeting relative to the emigration of coloured persons to Hayti, to 
gain information relative to this subject, and report thereon, on the 
25ih instant, res|)ectrully Report : — 

That in pursuing the object of their appointment, their attention 
was first turned to the number and condition of persons in our own 
State, proposed to be benefitted by the proposition^of President Boyer. 

According to the Census of the United States, made in 1820, there 
were in the State of New-York, 29,279 free persons of colour, and 
10 088 slaves. Since that time it is known that the number of slaves 
has diminished, and the number of free persons of colour increased. 
The period fixed by law for the termination of Slavery in this State, 
is the 4th of July, 1827. 

It is well known that the condition of our coloured population is very 
unfortunate, and when the Committee advert to the means of their in- 
troduction among us, and the cause whicJi now prevents their moral and 
intellectual advancement, they cannot doubt that their fellow-citizens^ 
influenced as well by a sense of justice as the impulses of philanthro- 



80 

phy, will cheerfully embrace any opportunity that may present to place 
the descendants of Africa in a situation which will furnish them with 
more powerful motives, than are offered them among ourselves, to 
respectability of character, and intellectual improvement. 

The Island of Hayti is supposed to offer such a situation. The pro- 
positions made by the government of that country, have been consid- 
ered by the Committee with as much attention as the short time allowed 
them to make a report would permit. These propositions appear to 
the Committee to be liberal and in their opinion are honourable to the 
government whence they emanated. The Committee have also con- 
ferred with Citizen Granville, the authorized agent of the Republic of 
Hayti in this country, and from information derived from him, as well 
as from that before in their possession, they feel assured that the form 
of government there insures to the citizens a good degree of civil and 
religious liberty — and that the means of improvement at present in 
successful operation there, will at no distant period enable tjayti to 
hold a respectable rank among Christian nations. Those ©f our col- 
oured population who may think proper to emigrate to that country, 
will immediately become citizens, and possessed of all the privileges 
and immunities appertaining to that character. It is not however to 
be concealed that such emigrants may, by a change of climate, and a 
connection with a people speaking a different language from their own, 
be subjected for a time to inconveniences and embarrassments. These 
may however be surmounted, and the children of the emigrants will be 
born to a better inheritance, and brighter prospects, than awaited the na- 
tivity of their parents. 

Your Committee have received information, that a meeting of a num- 
ber of respectable coloured persons in this city has been held, at which 
the propositions of President Boyer were read and highly approved. 

Without entering more minutely into the subject, your Committee 
would briefly express the conclusion at which they have arrived — That 
ID their opinion, the circumstances and prospects of a large proportion 
of our coloured population vt'ould be essentially improved by becoming 
citizens of Hayti. They therefore think that the emigration of such 
persons to that country, ought to be promoted. 

As the object proposed to be effected by the preceding remarks, can- 
not be compassed by individual exertions, but will require concert of 
action, the Committee would submit the following resolutions for theadop- 
tion of their fellow citizens, from whom thev derived their appointment. 

The resolutions reported by the Committee, after some amendments, 
passed as follows : — 

Resolved, That it is expedient to form a Society, to be called " The 
-Society for promotingihe Emigration of Free Persons of Colour to Hayti." 

Resolved, That a subscription of twenty dollars shall entitle the sub- 
scriber to be a member of said Society for life, and an annual subscrip- 
tion of three dollars shall entitle the subscriber to the right of member- 
ship during the continuance of said subscription. 

Resolved, That the business and affairs of said Society shall be con- 
ducted by a Board of Managers, to consist of twenty-five of its members, 
and that until the organization of said Society, the following persons 
shall compose said Board. 

A committee was then appointed to nominate the Managers, who 
reported the following names, which were approved by the meeting :•— 



51 

MATTHEW CLARKSON, STEPHEN ALLEN, 
C. D GOLDEN, JOHN E. HYDE, 

PETER A. JAY, JOSEPH SMITH, 

GEO. AEWBOLD, JAMES PALMER, 

JOV. WALN WRIGHT, JOHN R. WILLIS, 

THOMAS EDDY, NAJAH TAYLOR, 

ROBERT C. CORNELL, JOHN R. HURD, 
JOHN GRISCOM, WILLIAM COLGATE, 

L. D. DEWEY, SAMUEL COWDREY, 

JOSHUA UNDERHILL, CORNELIUS DUBOIS, 
ISAAC COLLINS, THEODORE DWIGHT, 

JOHxN PINTARD, JONATHAN GOODHUE, 

H. KETCHUM. 
Citizen Granville, the Agent of President Boyer, who had been pre- 
viously introduced by Thomas Eddy, then requested permission to 
address a few remarks to the meeting, which was cheerfully granted. 
Through the medium of Professor Griscora, who officiated as interpre- 
ter, Citizen Granville expressed his warm acknowledgments for the 
measures which had been adopted to promote the views of his govern- 
ment; and as a private citizen I'equested permission for himself and 
countrymen to make pecuniary contributions to the Society when it 
should be formed, in aid of its benevolent views. Whereupon the fol- 
lowing resolution was introduced by Dr. Wainwright, and adopted. 

Resolved, That this meeting highly appreciate the liberal offer made 
by Citizen Granville, and recommend that the Society hereafter to be 
formed accede to the proposition made by him in behalf of himself and 
countr)'men. 

A very well written and interesting communication, addressed to 
Thomas Eddy and others, from Samuel E. Cornish, Peter Williams, 
and others, a committee appointed by a Meeting of Coloured Persons 
held in the Presbyterian Church in Elm-street, on the 16th inst. to 
deliberate upon the offers made by President Eoyer. was then read, 
and referred to the Managers of the contemplated Society. The meet- 
ing then adjourned. 

THOMAS EDDY, Chairman. 
H. KETCHUM, SECRETAfiv. 
The Board of iManagers met at the Governor's Room in the New- 
York Hospital, on Tuesday, the 29th day of June, ult.and organized. 

General MATTHEW CLARKSON was chosen President, H. 
KETCHUM. Secretary, and ROBERT C. CORNELL, Treasurer. 
The Committee to receive donations from the citizens, and to em- 
ploy agents to obtain subscriptionh is composed of, 

ROBERT C. CORNELL, 
JOHN R. WILLIS, 
SAMUEL COWDREY. 
A Corresponding Committee was appointed ; also a Committee to 
prepare an address to the public. 

The following persons were appointed a Committee to digest a gen- 
eral i)Ian of proceedings for the Society and to confer with a Commit- 
tee, appointed at a Meeting of Coloured Persons, who intend forming' 
an Auxiliary Society. 

THOMAS EDDY, JOSHUA UNDERHILL, , 

LORING D. DEWEY, GEORGE NEWBOLD. 



TSloTR. — St. Domingo, Hispaniola., or as it was originally called by the natives, Hayii, 
was discovered by Columbus, December 6tli, 1492. — This 'sland is in Lat 18 20 North, 
and in Lon. 68 40 West; extending 150 miles from North to South, and 480 miles 
from East to West— containing 1432 square miles, and is, except Cuba, (from which 
it is separated by a strait of .S6 miles, called the Windward Passage,) the largest, the 
most fertile and pleasant Island in the W'est Indies. The general salubrity of the 
climate — beauty of scenery — comprising mountains of great altitude, covered with 
verdure — magnificent plains every where well watered, and in consequence spread 
over with the most luxuriant vegetation, renders this Island a most inviting and desira- 
ble residence There are but two seasons in the year, and they are equally fine In 
the delightful vales of the Island, the sweets of spring are enjoyed without either win- 
ter or summer, — the ground always laden with fruit, and covered with flowers. From tire 
situation of this Island, it might be supposed to softer from intense heat, but this is 
provided against by frequent refreshing rains, and an alternaie East and West wind, 
which blows with great regularity. Its salubrity is also in a great degree owing to the 
beautiful variety of its surface, exhibiting hills and vallies, woods and rivers. Itr 
contains forests of palms, elms, oaks, pines, mahogany, and numerous other trees, 
and it is generally agreed that the pine apples, grapes, oranges, lemons, limes, citrons, 
figs, dates, apricots, peaches and other fruits, have a peculiarly fine flavour in Hayti. 

The Island abounds in wholesome water, but so cold m the interior, that it must be 
eirank with care, and is dangerous for bathing. It contains several lakes, very nume- 
rous rivers, several of which, viz : — Ozama, Macoris, Yaquay, Yuna, La Neyva, 
L'Usaque, Arlioonite, are large and well stocked withifish. 

In 1789, the population was 1,240,000 and is now [1824,] supposed to exceed two 
millions, and if well cultivated, this Island is capable of supporting a population of 
from eight to ten millions. 

In 1791, the value of exports from this Island exceeded £5,370,000 sterling, or 
g23,832,000— comprised in— 

84,617,328 lbs of . . . Coffee, 
217,463 hhds of . . Sugar, 

3,257,610 lbs. of . . . Indigo, 

1,526,017 lbs. of . . . Cocoa, 
11,317,226 lbs. of . . . Cotton, 
34,453,000 lbs. of . . . Syrup, 

besides corn, ginger, tobacco, salt, wax, honey, ambergris, a variety of drugs, dyers' woodsj 
mahogany, &c. &c. &c The number of French vessels employed in 1789, was 710, 
and at^one period the whole Island employed 1070 vessels, navigated by 7936 seamen. 

The chief towns are Port-au-Prince, containing 120,000 inhabitants; AuxCayes, 
90,000; Cape Francois 90,000; St. Domingo, 70,000; Jeremie, Petit Goaves, Laogane, 
and numerous small towns and villages. 

The Independence of Hayti was proclaimed on the 29th of Nov. 1803, and having 
obtained in 1821 a session of the Spanish part, by consent of its inhabitants, the whole 
of this most extensive, valuable, and interesting Island came under the authority and 
protection of J. P. Boyeh, President of the Republic of Hayti, and now enjoys profound 
peace, and is earnestly cultivating a knowledge of the arts and sciences. They have 
e.^ablished Lancasterian schools, academies, colleges, &c., supported at public ex- 
pense. 

Their militia system is somewliat similar to that of the United States. Their stand- 
ing army of 200.000 men, cavalry, infantry, and artillery, &c., is as well disciplined, 
officered, armed, and equipped, as that of any regular army of any other country. 
Their navy is yet but small, say 16 vessels, and these are chiefly employed in prevent- 
ing and detecting pirates and smugglers. 

Memorandum. — A Map and a more complete and detailed description of Hayti, will 
probably be published as soon asCitizen J. Granville receives the necessary documents 
from his government, which he has requested, and now daily expects containing a 
stattstixal account of its productions, exports, imports, &c. &c., for the lastfouryears 



THE END. 



J» 



Tlw following well tvritten Letter, from Thomas Paul, a most intel- 
ligent and respectable Minister of the Baptist Society in Boston, 
is taken from the Columbian Sentinel of July Z, 1824. 
Mb. Editor, — 

In compliance with the request of several very res- 
pectable gentlemen of this city, and the solicitations- of persons of my 
own colour, I am induced to publish the following statement in rela- 
tion to the country and government of Hayti. I the more cheerfully, 
comply with these requests, in hopes that those free people of colour 
especially, who are disposed to seek an asylum for the enjoyment of 
liberty, and the common rights of man in a foreign clime, maybe 
benefitted by this publication. 

Having been a resident for some* months in the Island of Hayti, I 
am fully persuaded that it is the best and most suitable place of resi- 
dence which Providence has hitherto offered to emancipated people 
of colour, for the enjoyment of liberty and equality with their atten- 
dant blessings. At an interview which I had, with President Boyer, 
some months ago, he was pleased to make a verbal statement of the 
same offers to me, as an organ of communication to the free people of 
colour in the United- States, which he has recently made to the Coloni- 
zation Society, in answer to several inquiries made by the Rev. Me. 
Dewey. 

After having made known to his Excellency the object of my visit, 
and having received permission from him to preach, and discharge the 
duties of a missionary of the gospel in, the Islandi I never received the 
least molestation from any person ; but on the contrary, was always 
treated with the greatest respect by all the officers of the government, 
and by all classes of the people. 

The island is delightfully situated, abounding with all the necessa" 
ries and even the luxuries of life. It presents to the eye the most ro- 
mantic and beautiful scenery , and while its verdant mountains recal 
to our minds what we have read of ancient Gilboa. Tabor, Lebanon^ 
Carmeii and Sion, its fertile valiies present us with the rich luxuri- 
riance of the valiies of the Israelitish Canaan. 

The staple productions are coffee, 'rice, tobacco, indigo, and indian 
corn. The forests abound with the best of mahogany, logwood, and 
fustic ; and the pastures are literally covered with flocks and herds.. 

A yoke of well made oxen, measuring six feet six inches, may be 
purchased for 17 or ^18 : a handsome cow and calf, for ^7 ; and swine 
and poultry at the same rate. The markets are supplied with a plenty, 
of fresh and salt water fish — oysters, lobsters, and turtles. A turtle 
weighing 80 or 90 lbs. may be purchased for f 2. Through the months 
of June, July, August, and September, I resided upon the Island, and 
during this time which is considered the hottest part of year, and the 
axost unhealthy to strangers, I enjpyed as good health as at any peried 
of my life. 

The Hay.tiens have macfef^at progress in the mechanical arts, 
which receive liberal encoura^gR^i^^i^t. Goldsmithsjsilversmiths, black- 
smiths, tailors, bootmakers, painters, cabinetmakers, coopers, tanners, 
curriers, house-carpenters, ship-carpenters, turners, wheelwrights, tin- 
workf-rs, sugar-manufacturers, and distillers would find constant and 
profitable employment. 

A country, the local situation of wiiich is favourable to trade and commercial enter- 
prise, pos^ssing a free and well regulated government, which encourages the useful and 
liberal art^, a country possessing an enterprising population of several hundred thou- 
sands of abtive and brave men, who are determined to live free or die gloriouslyin the 
defence of freedom, mii,st possess advantages highly inviting to men who are sighing for 
the enjoyrtient of the common rights and liberties of mankind. The time, I trust is not 
far distant, when all wise and good men will use their influence to place the Free 
Coloured People of the United States upon the delightful Island of Hayti. ^ 
I *^ THOMAS PAUI,. 

Bonc^, July lst,n2i. 



