PARALLEL 

BETWEEN 



sUvvttVvjk&iron 



AND THE 

SLAVE-TRADE 



BY HEMAN HUMPHREY, D. D. 

PBESIDENT OF AMHERST COLLEGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 



E r t^ v ' 




" Drag me, bound and bleecting, if you will, from my blazing habfc 
fation — but — O bind me not to a rack, where I can neither live nor die 
under the torture." — P. 10. 



PUBLISHED BY JOHN P. HAVEN, 

No. 142 Nassau-street. 

Price $1 75 per hundred. $15 per thousand. 



A PARALLEL, &e. 



There is a domestic tyrant now traversing the fairest 
districts of our country — consuming its young and vital 
energies ; treading down the blossom of its hopes ; under- 
mining its free institutions; setting at defiance all its au 
thorities ; multiplying engines of torture ; fencing off grave 
yards, and breathing pestilence upon every acre of our 
goodly heritage. This man-devouring shape, 

" If shape it may be called, which shape has none, 
" Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb, 



Fierce as ten furies, terrible as hell, 



is Intemperance. u Other lords have had dominion over 
us," but here is the very Nero of the horrid dynasty, and 
we must dethrone the despot, or we are lost. If we sit 
still but a little longer, and iook quietly on, while this 
scourge is raging like a tempest of fire in all our borders, 
the fourth of July will indeed come ; but we shall have 
no independence to celebrate. Our liberties will exist only 
in the song of the drunkard. Fnit Elium, (that thev were,) 
will be written upon all the monuments of our glory. 

I have long thought, that, in this state of things, a great 
advantage might be gained by comparing intempeVance 
with some other terrible scourge of humanity which has 
fallen under deep and universal reprobation. Such a 
scourge is the African Slave-trade ; and the position which 
I mean to take is this, that the prevalent use of ardent spirits 
in the United States, is a worse evil at this moment than the 
slave-trade ever was in the height of its horrible prosperity. 

The bare mention of the slave-trade is enough to excite 
indignation and horror in every breast that is not twice 
dead u> humanity. The wretch who should be accessary 
t a foreign traffic in human flesh, and siaews, and tor- 
ment, would be branded with eternal infamy, if not hunted 
as a monster from the face of civilized society. And yet, 
I repeat it, intemperance is worse than the slaveAroide — is 



PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE, &c. 3 

heavier with wo, and guilt, and death — both being " laid 
in the balances together." 

The principal ingredients of suffering and crime in the 
slave-trade, are, the infernal ambush — the midnight attack 
and conflagration of peaceful villages — the massacre of 
helpless age and imploring infancy — the stripes, and mana- 
cles, and thousand unutterable cruelties inflicted between 
the place of capture and embarkation — the horrors of the 
middle passage — the shambles prepared for the famine- 
stricken survivors on a foreign shore — the separation of 
husbands and wives, mothers and children, under the 
hammer and branding-iron — the mortality of seasoning, 
amid stripes, and hunger, and malaria :— to which must 
be added, the dreadful accumulation of heart-breaking re- 
mt Frances and forebodings, incident to a state of hope- 
less bondage of themselves and their posterity, in a strange 
and hated land. 

And can any thing be worse ? Can any guilt, or misery, 
or peril, surpass that of the slave-trade ? Yes, I answer, 
intemperance in the United States is worse, is a more 
blighting and deadly scourge to humanity, than that traffic, 
all dripping with gore, which it makes every muscle shud- 
der to think of. 

First; look at the comparative aggregate of misery, occa- 
sioned by the slave-trade on one hand, and intemperate 
drinking on the other. The result of this comparison will 
obviously , depend upon the number of victims to each, the 
variety, intensity, and duration of their sufferings, bodily 
and mental ; together with the degree and extent to which 
their friends and relations are made to suffer on their ac- 
count. I am aware that the parallel does not admit of 
mathematical precision ; neither does the nature of the 
argument require it. 

To begin, then, with the number of victims on both shJes, 
as nearly as it can be ascertained. According 4o Mr. 
Clarkson, and other good authorities, not far from 100,000 
slaves have been shipped from the coast of Africa in a sin- 
gle year. This was the estimate for 1786 ; and of these, 
about 42,000 were transported in British vessels. The pe- 
riod in question, however, was one of the most afflictive and 
disgraceful activity ; when the English, French, Dutch, 
Portuguese, and Danes, seemed most eagerly to vie with 



4 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

each other in driving the infernal traffic. Probably, the 
average shipment of slaves for twenty years, immediately 
preceding the act of abolition by the British Parliament, 
may have ranged from seventy to seventy-five thousand. 
What proportion fell to our share it is difficult, perhaps 
impossible, to determine. But when it is considered how 
many other great markets Mere then open, we can hardly 
suppose that more than 25,000 were consigned to the 
United States. My own belief is, that the average did not 
exceed. 20,000 ; but, to make the case as strong as it will 
bear against the slave-trade, let the number be raised to 
30,000 ; making an aggregate of 150,000 in five years, or 
300,000 in ten years. What a multitude of men, women, 
and children, to go into captivity, and wear the yoke of 
slavery for ever ! 

But we must follow these miserable beings a step fur- 
ther, and inquire for them in the bills of mortality. Accord- 
ing to the most authentic estimates which I have been 
able to find, the number of deaths, during the middle pas- 
sage, varies from six to fifteen per cent. In some extraor- 
dinary cases it has gone up to thirty, or even higher. But 
the average, taking one year with another, may be put 
down at ten, or twelve deaths in a hundred, before the 
slaves reach the great shambles, to which, like beasts of 
Durden, they are consigned. Suppose, then, that our share 
in the infamous traffick cost from three to four thousand 
lives annually in the middle pass'age, and from eight to 
ten thousand more in the two first years of servitude. 
This, indeed, must have been, considering the cause of it, a 
most horrible mortality. 

But let us inquire whether at least as many thousands 
are not now enslaved and destroyed by a more ruthless 
enemy of happiness and of life. According to the recent 
calculations of Mr. Palfrey and others, which I believe an 
exact census would more than verify, thirty^six thousand 
new victims are yearly snared, and taken, and enslaved by 
strong drink. Thirty-six thousand perish by the hand of 
this fell destroyer, and of course it requires an equal 
number of fresh recruits to keep the drunkard's knell still 
sounding through the land. 

The parallel, then, as nearly as it can be ascertained, 
stands thus. Shipment of slaves, say in 1786, from twenty- 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 5 

five to thirty thousand. Brought into a worse bondage, by 
intemperance, in 1828, thirty-six thousand. Deaths by the 
slave-trade, from ten to fifteen thousand — by ardent spirits, 
thirty-six thousand! Thus, where the slave-trade opened 
one grave, hard drinking opens three. 

Again ; as intemperance holds this " bad pre-eminence" 
over the slave-trade in point of numbers, so I am persuaded 
it does in the aggregate of human misery which it inflicts. 

Go, then, with me to that long-abused continent, where 
the first act of this infernal tragedy is acted over every 
month, and you will gain some faint idea of the atrocities 
which it unfolds. In that thicket crouches a human tiger; 
and just beyond it you hear the joyous voices of children 
at their sports. The next moment he springs upon his ter- 
rified prey — nor sister nor mother shall ever see them 
more. On the right hand you hear the moans of the cap- 
tive, as he goes bleeding to his doom ; and on the Left, a 
peaceful village flashes horror upon the face of midnight; 
and as you approach the scene of conflagration, you behold 
the sick, the aged, and the infant, either writhing in the 
fire where they lay peacefully down ; or, attempting to es- 
cape, you see them forced back into the flames, as not 
worth the trouble of driving to market. And then, O what 
shrieks from the bursting hearts of the more unhappy sur- 
vivors ! What agonies in the rending of every tie ! What 
lacerations, what fainting, what despair, wait on every step, 
and afflict the heavens which light them on their way to 
bondage ! How many would die, if they could, before they 
have been an hour in the hands of those incarnate daemons 
who are hurrying them away ! 

Shall I attempt to describe the horrors of the middle 
passage — the miseries which await these wretched beings 
in crossing the ocean ? I feave no pencil, nor colors for 
such a picture. But see them literally packed alive, by 
hundreds, in a floating and pestilential dungeon — manacled 
to the very bone, under a treble-ironed hatchway — tor- 
mented with thirst, and devoured by hunger — suffocated 
in their own breath — chained to corpses, and maddened 
by despair to the rending of all their heart-strings. See 
mothers and young girls, and even little children, seeking 
refuge in the caverns of the deep, from the power of their 
tormentors; and not to be diverted from their purpose by 



6 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

the hanging and shooting of such as have failed in similar 
attempts. Behold the sick and the blind struggling amid 
the waves into which avarice has cast them, and shrieking, 
in the jaws of the shark, for the unpardonable crime of 
having sunk under their tortures, and lost their marketable 
value on the voyage. See them headed up in water-casks, 
and thrown into the sea, lest they should be found and 
liberated by the merciful cruiser* 

The foregoing is a mere extract from the blood-stained 
records of the slave-trade. Who then will undertake to 
sum up the amount of human misery which is wafted by 
the reluctant and wailing winds upon the complaining 
waters, to be chained and scourged, to pine and die in the 
great western house of bondage ? 

But while intemperance mixes ingredients equally bit- 
ter in the cup of trembling and wo which it fills up to the 
brim, it casts in others, which the slave-trade never min- 
gled — for it fetters the immortal mind as well as the body. 
It not only' blisters the skin, but scorches the vitals. While 
it scourges the flesh, it tortures the conscience. While it 
cripples the wretch in every limb, and boils away his blood, 
and ossifies its channels, and throws every nerve into a 
dying tremor, it also goes down into the unsounded depths 
of human depravity, and not only excites all the passions 
to fierce insurrection against God and man, but kindles a 
deadly civil war in the very heart of their own empire. 

Who can enumerate the diseases which intemperance 
generates in the brain, liver, stomach, lungs, bones, mus- 
cles, nerves, fluids, and whatever else is susceptible of dis- 
ease, or pain, in the human system ? How rudely does it 
shut up, one after another, all the doors of sensation; or, in 
the caprice of its wrath, throw them all wide open to every 
hateful intruder!" How, with a refinement of cruelty al- 
most peculiar to itself, does it fly in the face of its victims, 
and hold their quivering eye-balls in its fangs, till they ab- 
hor the light and swim in blood ! 

Mark that carbuncled, slavering, doubtful remnant of a 
man, retching and picking tansy before sunrise — loathing 
his breakfast — getting his ear bored to the door of a dram- 
shop an hour after — disguised before ten — quarrelling by- 
dinner time, and snoring drunk before supper. See him 
&ext morning at his retching, and his tansy again j and, as 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 1 

the day advances, becoming noisy, cross, drivelling, and 
intoxicated. Think of his thus dragging out months and 
years of torture, till the earth refuses any longer to bear 
such a wretch upon its surface, and then tell me, if any Bar- 
badian slave was ever so miserable. 

But who is this that comes hobbling up, with bandaged 
legs, inflamed eyes, and a distorted countenance ? Every 
step is like the piercing of a sword, or the. driving of a 
nail among nerves and tendons. And what is the cause ? 
The humors, he tells us, trouble him ; and though he has 
applied to all the doctors far and near, he can get no re- 
lief. Ah, these wicked and inveterate humors ! Every body 
knows where they came from. But for the bottle, he might 
have been a sound and healthy man. He may live as long, 
possibly, as he would in a sugar-house at Jamaica ; but to 
grind more miserably in the prison which he has built at 
his own expense, and in manacles which his own hands 
have forged. 

Look next at that wretched hovel, open on all sides to 
the rude and drenching intrusion of the elements. The 
panting skeleton, lying,- as you see, upon a little straw in 
the corner, a prey to consumption, was once the owner of 
yonder comfortable mansion, and of that farm so rich in 
verdure and in sheaves. He might have owned them still, 
and have kept his health too, but for the love of strong 
driuk. It is intemperance which has consumed his sub- 
stance, rioted upon his flesh and his marrow, and shortened 
his breath, and fixed that deep sepulchral cough in his 
wasting vitals. Was ever a kidnapped African more 
wretched in his Atlantic dungeon ? But your sympathies 
come too late. Perhaps you sold- him the very poison 
which has brought him to this — or it went out sparkling 
from your distillery to the retailer, and thence into the jug, 
half concealed by the tattered garment of the victim, as 
he carried it home to his "starving family. 

Go next to the almshouse, and tell me whether you re- 
cognise that dropsical figure, lingering, from week to week^ 
under the slow torments of strangulation. How piercing are 
his shrieks, as if he was actually drowning. He was once 
your neighbor, thrifty, reputable, and happy — but he yield- 
ed to the blandishments of the great destroyer. He drank, 
first temperately, then freely, then to excess, and finally 



g PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

to habitual inebriation. The consequences are before you. 
The swelling flood in which he catches every precarious 
breath, no finite power can long assuage. The veriest 
wretch, chained and sweltering between decks in a Portu- 
guese Guineaman, is not half so miserable. 

Leaving him to be cast a wreck by the angry waters 
upon the shore of eternity ; enter that hut, toward which a 
solitary neighbor is advancing with hurried steps. There 
a husband and a father is supposed to be dying. The dis- 
ease is delirium tremens. Every limb and muscle quivers as 
in the agonies of dissolution. Reason, having been so 
often and so rudely driven from her seat by habitual in- 
toxication, now refuses to return. Possibly he may be re- 
prieved, to stagger on a little further into his ignominious 
grave ; but who that is bought and sold, and thrown into 
the sea, for the crime of ^eing sable and sick, suffers half 
so much as this very slave ? 

In passing the Insane Hospital, just look through 
the grated window, at the maniac in his strait-jacket — 
gnashing his teeth, cursing his keepers, withering your 
very soul by the flashes of his eye, disquieting the night 
jvith cries of distress, or more appalling fits of laugh- 
ter. Here you see what it is for the immortal mind to be 
laid in ruins by the worse than volcanic belchings of the 
distillery, and what happens every day from these Tarta- 
rean eruptions. 

" Who hath wo ? Who hath sorrow ? Who hath con- 
tentions ? Who hath babbling ? Who hath wounds with- 
out cause ? Who hath redness of eyes ? They that tarry 
long at the wine ; they that go -to seek mixed wine." 
Strong drink may exhilarate for a moment, but " at the 
last it biteth like a serpent, and sting eth like an adder.". And 
can any slave-torture be more excruciating than this ? 
Glance your eye once more at the poor African captive — 
trace his bloody footsteps to the ship — let your sympathies 
all cluster round the sufferer in the middle passage, so pro- 
yerbial for its horrors— follow him thence to the planta- 
tion, and thence, through years of toil and pain, to his re- 
fuge in the grave. Then look again at the self-immolated 
victim of intemperance — hobbling — ulcerated — bloated — 
cadaverous — -fleshless — every nerve, and muscle, and sensi- 
tive organ of his body quivering in the deadly grasp oC 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 9 

some merciless disease, occasioned by swallowing the fiery 
element. Follow him, too, through the middle passage from 
health, end freedom, and happiness, to all the woes of ha- 
bitual intoxication ; and thence through scenes of the most 
grinding and crushing bondage that ever disgraced and tor- 
tured humanity, to his final rotting-place, and tell me which 
of these slaves suffers most. 

Shall I speak of shame, as prolific of mental suffering ? 
What has the manacled and starving captive done to be 
ashamed of? He fought for liberty as long as he could, or 
he fled from bondage with his utmost speed. But look at 
the intemperate man. No one can become a sot and a 
reprobate without suffering extreme mortification, espe- 
cially in the early stages of his downward course. Indeed 
the veriest drunkard, even when half intoxicated, evidently 
despises himself from the bottom of his heart. A hundred 
'times in a year does he wish himself dead, from mere self- 
contempt. From the public gaze, as you have often seen, 
he tries to skulk away to some horse-shed, or other place 
of concealment. For days together, after a debauch, he 
shuts himself up to brood over Iris degradation ; and when, 
at last, he ventures out, how does he shrink from the 
glance of every eye, and glide along by the wall, or under 
the fence, like a sheep-stealer ! 

In a still more vital point, the parallel entirely fails ; 
for the suffering is all on the side of intemperance. What- 
ever bodily torture the slave may be compelled to endure, 
he has a clear conscience. He did not sell himself. He 
never lacerated his own flesh, nor plucked the bread out 
of his own mouth. Poor and half naked, indeed, he is, but 
not by his own fault. In bondage he must wear out his 
life, but he did not forge and rivet his own chains, nor 
thrust himself into the dungeon which conveyed him to 
market. If his parents died with grief after he left them, 
he was not the guilty cause of it. If his wife has sunk 
down by his side, with a broken heart, gladly would he 
have saved her, if he could. If his children are as wretched 
and hopeless as himself, it is not through his voluntary 
agency. Of all this guilt he stands acquitted at the bar of 
Conscience. 

But how is it with the bond-slave of intemperance ? 
What tormentor was ever so fierce and relentless as a 



10 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

guilty conscience ? She charges him with the meanness of 
driving himself to market — of selling his own flesh and 
blood, for nothing, to the most cruel master — of buying, and, 
when his money is gone, begging, the privilege of being a 
slave. She apbraids him with the guilt of wasting his pro- 
perty, sacrificing his health, blasting his character, destroy- 
ing his usefulness, disgracing his friends, violating his con- 
nubial vows, entailing poverty and infamy upon his chil- 
dren, and ruining his own soul. When thus maddened by 
her whip of scorpions, he flies to his cups for relief, she 
but intermits her tortures to renew them the first moment 
that returning reason brings him within her reach, and 
scourges him back again to the very brink of desperation. 
Again he plunges, deeper than ever, in the oblivious flood, 
and again emerges, to feel the dreadful renewal of her 
stripes, and perhaps the next moment to rush into a burn- 
ing eternity. 

She knows how to make her terrible voice heard even 
in the midst of his revelry. She enters before him into his 
sick chamber, with thorns for his pillow— takes her stand 
by his bed-side, on purpose to terrify him with her awful 
forebodings and rebukes ; and when the king of terrors 
comes, she anticipates his entrance into the dark valley, 
that she may there haunt his soul with undying horrors. 
Now what, I pray you, is African slavery, in its most ter- 
rific forms, compared with this ? The mere sting of an in- 
sect, compared with the fangs of a tiger — the slight incon- 
venience of a ligature, contrasted with the crawling and 
crushing folds of the Boa Constrictor. Drag me, bound . 
and bleeding, if you will, from my blazing habitation — 
thrust me half dead into the fetid hold of any slave-ship—, 
sell me to any foreign master — doom me to labour in any 
burning climate— set over me any iron-hearted driver — load 
me with any chains, and compel me to toil night and day 
in any sugar-house ; — but deliver me not over to the retri- 
butions of a conscience exasperated by the guilt of intem- 
perance ! bind me not to a rack where I can neither 
live nor die under the torture ! 

Again; it is demonstrable that intemperance inflicts 
more misery upon the immediate friends and relatives of its 
victims in this country, than was ever caused in Africa, 
by our participation in the slave-trade. I have alluded 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. II 

already to the cruelty of the lucre-bitten prowler, in send- 
ing down multitudes of parents, sorrowing, and childless, to 
their graves ; and to the bloody conflagration in which the 
helpless perish, at the moment when their dearest friends 
are swept into hopeless captivity. But, to say nothing of 
the keener sensibilities of a civilized than of a savage state, 
can it be doubted, that the anguish occasioned by the in- 
temperance of husbands, sons, and brothers, is more acute, 
or that it afflicts a still greater number of families ? When 
you have poured out your sympathies over a sorrowing 
mother, and her half-starved children, whose husband and 
father is pining in western bondage, enter the forlorn 
habitation of the thrice widowed mother of a drunkard's 
ofYsping. Or when you have wept with that aged pair, on 
the slave-coast, whose only son has just been carried oif by 
the ruthless man-stealer, come home to America, and see 
the only prop of once doting and now aged parents, fail- 
ing intoxicated and blaspheming, over the threshold of 
their door ; and tell me whose breach is widest, whose 
sorrows spring from the deepest fountain ? Much as I love 
my children, let them all grind in chains till they die, ra- 
ther, infinitely, than become the slaves of strong drink, 
And if intemperance pours such wormwood and^gail as 
this into the hearts of four-hundred thousand families, (and 
this is probably a moderate estimate,) what must be the 
mighty aggregate of misery which sends up its ceaseless 
groans to heaven from every part of the land ! 

Secondly, as intemperance holds a dreadful preponder- 
ance over the slave-trade, in the sufferings which it occa- 
sions, it is still more pre-eminent in the guilt with which 
it is stained. The criminality of trading in human flesh 
cannot, indeed, be computed. But in this guilt the slaves 
themselves had no participation. And probably not twenty 
thousand of our citizens were ever, either directly or indi- 
rectly, concerned in it at any one time. Whereas, in the 
case of intemperance, every slave is a criminal ; and two 
hundred thousand, at least, are chargeable with all the guilt 
which is involved in wasting property, throwing away in- 
fluence and reputation, abusing reason, rending asunder 
allied heart-strings, and kindling up fires which will burn 
to the lowest hell. 

Can it be so criminal in the sight of heaven 3 thejx, for 



12 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

ten or twenty thousand persons to hunt, and enslave, and 
kill the poor black men, as for two hundred thousand 
white men, to euslave, and torment, and kill, not only 
themselves, but their parents, sisters, wives, and children ? 
If the guilt of the twenty thousand is crimson, what must 
that be of the ten times twenty thousand? If the sins of the 
former were legion, who will undertake to number those 
of the latter ? 

Thirdly ; intemperance is, beyond all comparison, more 
destructive to the souls of men than the slave-trade. Dia- 
bolical as this traffic is, it seals not up the Bible, nor blots 
out the Sabbath, nor removes men from the " house of God 
and the gate of heaven." It hardens not their hearts. It 
sears not their consciences. They are not more likely to 
lose their souls in America, than they would have been in 
their native country. 

But how much more terrible are the effects of intempe- 
rate drinking, upon the character and destiny of men, born 
and educated in a Christian land ! If there is any evil 
which hardens the heart faster, or fills the mouth with 
" cursing and bitterness" sooner, or quickens, hatred to 
God and man into a more rapid and frightful maturity, I 
know not what it is. And if there is on this side of the 
nether world, a broader seal of perdition than the con- 
firmed drunkard has burnt in upon his own visage, I know 
not where to find it. Look at him as he was, and as he is. 
Once the law of kindness dwelt upon his tongue, and the 
social affections had their home in his bosom. He kept 
the Sabbath, read his Bible, instructed his children, went 
regularly to the sanctuary, and was, at times, "almost per- 
suaded to be a Christian." But the fell destroyer came, 
disguised, at first, in cordials and sparkling holiday pledges, 
and side-board hospitality. Yes, the destroyer came, and 
dried up the fountain that diffused gladness around him, 
and kindled every malignant and wrathful element of de- 
pravity into a raging conflagration, and converted his throat 
into an open sepulchre, and banished the Scriptures from 
his sight, if not from his dwelling, and estranged him from 
God's house, and incased his heart in adamant, and launch- 
ed him upon that headlong torrent which thunders down 
into the bottomless abyss. " Be not deceived. Neither 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 13 

fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor drunkards, 
shall inherit the kingdom of God." 

Fourthly ; our free institutions are more endangered by 
the love of ardent spirits, than they ever were by the slave- 
trade, or than they now are by the existing slavery of the 
south. No true and enlightened patriot can think, without 
deep solicitude, of the jeopardy which originated in steal- 
ing, buying and selling, and consuming, human merchan- 
dise. Even the quiet servitude of two millions of peo- 
ple is a sleeping volcano, within the reach of whose smo- 
thered fires nothing can be entirely safe. 

But how much more is to be feared from two hundred 
thousand veterans in the army of intemperance — not con- 
fined to any particular section or district of the United, 
States, but quartered upon every town, and village, and 
settlement, in the nation ! We encounter these merce- 
naries, in their uniform, wherever we go : and the power 
which they wield over the destinies of the country is tre- ■ 
mendous. They are always found at the polls, and often 
stand as centinels over the ballot-boxes. They choose our 
rulers, and are chosen themselves to govern us. They 
find their way not only into the inferior legislative assem- 
blies, but into the grand council of the nation. We meet 
them at the bar, in the jury-box, and even on the bench. 
They steal into the church of the living God ; and, how 
shall it be spoken ! the sacred desk itself cannot be effectu- 
ally closed against them. 

Is religion any thing more than a name? Do our insti- 
tutions rest upon the virtue and intelligence of the people ? 
Does every tiling depend upon the purity of the elective 
franchise? Is almost every drunkard an elector? What, 
then, must the end of these things be ? This question may 
be promptly answered without a prophet's ken. If intem- 
perance should increase as it has done, and go on to cor- 
rupt the public morals, and set the laws at defiance, our 
government cannot stand. Its death-warrant is only wait- 
ing for the proper signature, and may shortly be read on 
the fourth of July. A sober people may possibly be en- 
slaved; but an ■, intemperate, people cannot long remain 
free. They must have a master to measure out their ra- 
tions, and keep them in awe at the point of the bayonet. 
And if the emblems of liberty are ever to be torn from our 



14 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

banner — if her statues are to be hurled from their pedes- 
tals — if the car of a despot is to be driven over our suppli- 
ant necks, it will be by the aid of strong drink. 

Of the enormous expense at which this Moloch of Ame- 
rica is supported, and for which there never was the sha- 
dow of a parallel in the slave-trade, I shall say but little, 
both because my limits forbid, and because the topic is too 
familiar to need any thing more than a passing remark. 
But if our annual libations cost forty, or even thirty millions 
of dollars ; then is here another proof, that intemperance 
is worse than the slave-trade. 

Were our object merely to make out a- strong case, or 
to prove that one great aational curse and stigma is hea- 
vier and more disgraceful than another, it would be need- 
less to enlarge. But who ever attempted to mount a battery, 
without intending, if possible, to rake the enemy's lines ?" 
A few rounds, at least, we must discharge on this occasion, 
just to try the calibre ; and should any friend, or an ally, 
happen, at the moment, to be in the opposite camp, or some- 
where between, in the range of our guns, he will do well 
to .consult his safety, by hastening back to his post as soon 
as possible. 

In the first place ; if intemperance is more criminal than 
the slave-trade, and more dangerous to our free institutions, 
then what is the plain duty of our civil rulers ? Is it not to 
discourage the former as well as the latter ? Congress has 
no hesitation in passing the severest laws against the one, 
and why not do something to check the more dreadful ra- 
vages of the other ? Why should the same government, 
which has cut up the slave-trade, root and branch, not 
only tolerate, but encourage the manufacture of a delete- 
rious poison, which destroys an army of men every year, and 
which threatens the very heart of the body politic ? While 
the importation of slaves is made piracy by our laws, in obe- 
dience to the united voice of policy, humanity, and reli- 
gion, why should not the same voice prevail against the 
importation and manufacture of ardent spirits, at least so far 
as heavy duties can go to shield us from their ravages ? 

In the second place; if intemperance is worse than the 
slave-trade, then how ought a sober and moral community 
to regard that easy system of licensing, which fills our large 
towns with groceries and the whole land with dram-shops ? 



AND THE SLAVE -TRADE. 15 

Would the authorities listen, for a moment, to any applica- 
tion for license to carry on the slave-trade, even if they had 
the powe. ? No ; they would spurn at it with indignation 
and horror. Let them look well, then, to the character and 
the number of applicants for liberty to retail the most insi- 
dious and destructive poisons. For it admits not of a doubt, 
that, in this way, more evil is done, more lives are de- 
stroyed, and more families are beggared, than would be by 
licensing a thousand small traders to bring home and sell 
the wretched children of Africa. 

In the third place; if strong drink is a more dangerous 
enemy to our liberties, and the cause of more guilt and suf- 
fering in the land than the slave-trade ever was, what in- 
fluence ought these considerations to have upon those who 
are engaged either in importing; or manufacturing the 
poison ? Would they send out their ships for cargoes of 
bond-men and bond-women ? Would they think it right 
to raise as many slaves as possible for the market? No — 
they would shudder at the bare proposal. How, then, can 
they employ their capital, and personal services, to encou- 
rage and perpetuate the more dreadful slavery of body and 
soul to intoxicating liquors ? I can believe that when John 
Newton commanded an English Guineaman, and before 
the guilt and cruelty of trading in human flesh had excited 
much discussion, some good men might have been engaged 
in the business. But the times of this ignorance are past — 
so that if, with all the light which has since been poured 
upon the atrocities of the slave-traffic, any one should con- 
tinue in it, should own or navigate a vessel thus employed, 
or act as an agent or supercargo abroad, or build his stalls at 
home to receive the miserable captives, he would be justly 
regarded as utterly destitute, I will not say of religion, but 
of common humanity, and would bring down upon him- 
self the indignant rebukes of an outraged community. 

In like manner, I doubt not, that, in times past, men of 
the fairest character and of real piety have been large im- 
porters and distillers of intoxicating liquors ; and this may 
De the case, to some extent, even now. But in full view of 
the estimates, and arguments, and appeals, which are going 
forth to enlighten the public mind, no conscientious man, 
I am persuaded, will be able much longer to own, or work 
a distillery among us. For how can he, who would indig- 



16 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

I 

nantly refuse to make hand-cuffs and iron collars for men 
and women of another continent, persevere in making a 
liquid poison, which is productive of far greater mischief 
and suffering to his own countrymen ? 

In the fourth place ; if intemperate drinking is pregnant 
with more guilt, and misery, and political danger than the 
slave-trade ever was, how can it be right to retail spirits 
as a common beverage ? Who is there, that, for the sake of 
a small and precarious profit, would burden his conscience 
with the guilt, and his character with the reproach of sup- 
plying the dealers in slaves with staples, and fetters, and 
ring-bolts, and padlocks, to carry on the accursed traf- 
fic ? Can any man justify himself in dealing out strong 
drink to his customers, by the plea, that they will have it, 
and if he refuses, somebody else will supply them and take 
the profits? This very argument was strenuously urged in 
the British Parliament, against the abolition of the slave- 
trade. The demand, it was said, exists. The Colonies 
must and will have more slaves, [f we relinquish this im- 
portant branch of commerce, our rivals will carry it on, 
and reap all the advantage. Would any British statesman 
use this argument now ? — " If we do not steal, and buy, 
and sell, and manacle human ilesh and blood, under a lit- 
tle darker skin than our own, other nations will do it, and 
enrich themselves by the trade !" Would any enlight- 
ened and conscientious man in the world now reason in 
this manner ? i 

But how, if the evils of intemperance are greater than 
those of the slave-trade, can any man permit himself to en- 
courage the former, by dealing in spirituous liquors, while 
he would shrink from every participation in the latter, 
with the utmost abhorrence ? I trust in God that the time 
is near, when our patriotic and conscientious merchants 
will no more vend ardent spirits, and pour out these 
streams of fire upon a suffering community, than they would 
sell arsenic by the pound, or retail hogsheads of nitric acid 
for the daily use of our families— when a respectable ta- 
vern-keeper will no more think of waiting and bowing in 
his bar, with a sparkling array of labelled decanters be- 
hind him, and the " black and blue ruin" before him, than 
of turning auctioneer in a Brazilian slave-market — and 
when no man of a decent character will any sooner stand 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. H 

and mix liquors in a dram-shop, than he would use a red* 
hot branding-iron to fix the indelible stamp of servitude 
upon the flesh of a child. 

In the fifth place ; if intemperance is more afflictive and 
disgraceful to humanity than the slave-trade, who can 
justify himself even in the moderate use of strong drink ? 
Would those respectable and influential men who driuk 
sparingly, lend the weight of their example, for a moment, 
to perpetuate the slave-trade, supposing it had not yet been 
abolished ? Would they go into the market and buy at 
all ? Would they tell us, that, much as they abhor a whole- 
sale traffic in human flesh, they see no harm in trading a 
little; and that nobody can be comfortable without a 
few slaves? 

But wherein does this materially differ from what is so 
often and so gravely urged in favor of moderate drinking ? 
The man who takes his scanty rations, is extremely tem- 
perate in comparison with many others, it is true — for 
where they purchase gallons, he only fills his small decan- 
ter once or twice. What he does consume, however, is the 
same kind of poison which destroys its tens of thousands 
of lives every year. And so long as he buys the smallest 
quantity, for any other than medicinal purposes; so long 
as he continues to drink at all, he lends the weight of his 
example to prolong the sorest plague that ever visited 
Our country. 

In the sixth place ; if intemperance deserves this charac- 
ter, and if the means hitherto employed to stop its ravages 
have proved unsuccessful, is it not the duty of every tem- 
perate man in the community to take a public stand against 
the common enemy, by a prompt enlistment in the service? 
A popular excuse for declining is, " I drink no ardent spi- 
rits, or very little indeed ; and I presume I never shall. 
Why then should I be urged to sign your paper ? What 
good will it do ? You have my example already, and you 
need no such bond as this to keep me sober." 

But if the slave-trade was now briskly carried on in all our 
sea-ports, would you say to the agent of an anti-slavery so- 
ciety, " I purchase no slaves — I never embarked a dollar 
of capital in the trade, and therefore I see no advantage in 
giving you my name ?" No — you would subscribe at once, 
sind you would consider it the duty of every man to do the 



18 PARALLEL BETWEEN INTEMPERANCE 

same. And why ? Because union is strength. And ought 
.you not, for the 'same reason, to unite with those who are 
now combining to save their country from the more dread- 
ful thraldom of strong drink ? 

It is entirely in the power of the temperate and sound 
part of the community, by uniting, to- drive the monster 
from our land. Those, therefore, who stand aloof from 
temperate societies, aud leave their brethren to go on with- 
out them, are answerable to God and their country for 
every discouragement and hindrance which may accrue 
from their refusal. The measures now in train, for redeem- 
ing twelve millions of people from the curse of intempe- 
rance, cannot fail but through the criminal apathy of the 
temperate themselves. And shall they fail from this cause ? 
Suppose it were equally in the power of the same class of 
men to remove the curse of African slavery from the Uni- 
ted States, and they should leave it still to press like an in- 
cubus upon the heart of the body politic, and stop its pul- 
sations, how would the benevolent universe regard such a 
dereliction of humanity and justice ? With what indignation 
would a holy God frown upon it ! 

In the seventh place ; if intemperance is so prevalent, so 
criminal, and so pregnant with misery and danger as has 
been represented, how can any man feel justified in lay- 
ing his orchard, or his field of rye, or corn, under contribu- 
tion to the distillery ? A common excuse is, that often- 
times the farmer can find no other market. Then let him 
keep his produce. But the plea is not valid. The most 
that can be made out is, that his grain will sell for a few 
cents more at the distillery than any where else. And is 
this an object of sufficient importance to justify any man 
in becoming accessary to the ruin of his neighbors, by fur- 
nishing the means of inebriation ? Who can believe that 
the staff of life was ever made to be subjected to the action 
of fire, and converted into a liquid poison ? 

Besides : what does the farmer gain in the end by the. 
higher price, which tempts him to encounter the fumes and 
noxious vapor of Pluto's laboratories ?* To fill his cask for 
family use, is almost a matter of course ; and when he 

* Or, as a shrewd foreign traveller, once, more appropriately styled 
Wem, "th& Devil's tea-kettles." 



AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 19 

finds his children, one after another, becoming drunkards, 
let him tell the public how much richer he is for going to 
such ama:ket. 

Will the owner of a great and fruitful orchard say, 
" Providence has loaded every tree with his bounty ; it is 
my duty, if possible, to save the product; and as there is 
no other demand, it can only be saved by sending it to the 
distillery ?" So might the planter say, of his vast and luxu- 
riant cane-field : " Providence has put this great plantation 
into my hands to be cultivated, and if I do not import more 
slaves, the bounty of heaven must be rejected and lost." 
It will be time enough for the thriving farmer to talk of gra- 
titude and duty in converting his apples into brandy, when 
he has proved that his lands will produce nothing else ; 
or that, if his fathers had planted an orchard of the Bohan 
Upas, and the demand for the poison were brisk and ur- 
gent, it would be his duty to gather and send it to market, 
though it should destroy the lives of thousands. 

Finally ; if intemperance is worse than the slave-trade, 
let every Christian, every patriot, every philanthropist, gird 
himself up to the great work of reform, and never cease 
from it till it shall be accomplished. A. fearful responsi- 
bility rests upon the men of this generation ; especially 
upon the influential and the temperate ; upon the guar- 
dians and teachers of youth in all our public and private 
seminaries ; and above all, perhaps, upon the young men of 
our beloved country. Let this responsibility be deeply felt f 
let union and 'perseverance every where be the watch- 
words of the sober and virtuous, and soon a drunkard will 
hecome as rare a monster as he was in the days of our 
Pi'grim Fathers ; and posterity will look back upon the 
present ravages and toleration of intemperance with emo- 
tions of astonishment, grief, and horror, similar to those 
which we now feel, in reading the most afflictive history 
of the Slave-trade, 



FR023 

MR. BBXttACT'S ADDRESS 

ON 

INTEMPERANCE. 



Let not the temperate drinker depend upon the firmness 
of his own purpose. The man who drinks a little, and 
thinks himself in no danger, is almost sure to be ruined. 
That degraded man who is the sport of the boys, as he 
reels through the streets, or who lies all night under the 
fence, or who wallows in the ditch, once stood just where 
you now stand, and once felt just as you feel. The same 
may be said of the thousands and the tens of thousands 
who have destroyed themselves by intemperance, and 
whose names are rotting above ground, as fast as their bo- 
dies are rotting below it. I repeat the remark, there is no 
Security but in the principle of entire abstinence. Let this 
principle be adopted, and the nation is saved ; one of the 
broad avenues to hell is closed, and the gate of heaven is 
thrown wider open upon its hinges. If every young man 
in this city would come into this measure, it would be 
worth more than all its wealth and commerce. Let this 
principle be adopted by all the young men in our country, 
and this single movement would prove a richer blessing 
than the establishment of our independence. In a few 
years the land would not be cursed by the presence of a 
drunkard. And this subject ought to be deeply felt by the 
youth. Among young men, especially, intemperance is 
making sad and melancholy havoc. Those who commence 
hard drinking in early life, are sure to find an early grave. 
Intemperate children and youth rarely ever reach the year& 
of manhood. In such cases, the work of death is short 
and rapid* 



