From the Baltimore Gazette. 
GARRISON'S SECOND TRIAL. 

BALTIMORE COUNTY COURT. 

October Term, 1S30. 
Francis Todd, 1 Action on the 

vs. > case for a 

Wm. Lloyd Garrison. } libel. 

This cause was tried at the present 
term, before Archer, Chief Judge ; the 
evidence on the trial was in substance 
as follows: 

In October 1829, the ship Francis, be- 
longing to the plaintiff, who is a resident 
merchant at Newburyport, Massachu- 
setts, on' her voyage from Baltimore to 
New Orleans, to'ok on board, at Herring 
Bay in the Chesapeak, as passengers, 
about eighty negroes, purchased by Mr. 
George B. Milligan, formerly of the 
State of Delaware, but for some years a 
Planter in Louisiana, from two gentle- 
men in Calvert County, for his own use. 
The agreement for the transportation of 
these people, was made by Mr. Milligan, 
with Captain Brown who commanded 



The Plaintiff, the owner, was not con- 
sulted, nor apprised of the destination or 
employment of the ship, until she was 
about to sail. By the agreement, these 
people were to be found in provisions by 
the Captain ; but solicitous for their 
comforts, Mr. Milligan had directed, be- 
fore the vessel left Baltimore, that cer- 
tain extra articles should be purchased 
for their use, such as blankets, shoes, 
hats, wiskey, sugar, tea, ami a quanity 
of co tt en shirting to be made up by the 
women during the passage, for them- 
selves and children, with needles, thread, 
&c. amounting to $400' The provisions 
on board were all of the best quality : — 
for instance, prime Pork, which cost $12, 
and Mess Beef, which cost $11 per bar- 
rel. 

Accompanied by Mr. Milligan, these 
people came on board cheerfully and 
willingly. Their former proprietors hav- 
ing been compelled to part with them, 
they rejoiced at the prospect of still liv- 
ing together, instead of being separated, 
as they would have been if otherwise 
disposed of. During the voyage there 
was not a single instance of complaint 
or discontent among them, — their ac- 
commodations on board were the same 
as those of the steerage passengers; — no 
restraint was imposed on them — no con- 
finement resorted to, no fetters used. 
They arrived safely at their new home, 
about twenty miles below New Orleans, 
and when Captain Brown visited the 
Plantation, shortly before his return to 
Baltimore, he found them perfectly con- 
tented. 

On the 20th November, some weeks 
after the ship had left Baltimore, the fol- 
lowing article appeared in a newspaper 
printed in this city, "edited and pub- 
lished by Benjamin Lundy and William 
Lloyd Garrison," called " Genius of Uni- 
versal Emancipation." 

BLACK LIST. 

HORRIBLE NEWS — DOMESTIC AND 
FOREIGN. 

THE SHIP FRANCIS. 

This ship, as I mentioned in our last 
lumber, sailed a few weeks since from 
is port with a cargo of slaves for the 
evv Orleans market. I do not repeat the 
ct because it is a rare instance of do- 
mestic piracy, or because the case was at 
,et ded with extraordinary circumstances; 
for the horrible traffic is briskly carried 
no, and the transportation was effected in 
the ordinary maimer. I merely wish to 
illustrate New England humanity and 
morality. I am resolved to cover with 
thick infamy all who are concerned in 
this nefarious business. 

I have slated that the ship Francis 
sails from my native place, Newburyport 
(Massachusetts,) is commanded by a 
yankee captain, and owned by a towns- 
man named 

FRANCIS TODD. 

Of Captain Nicholas Brown I should 
have expected better conduct. It is no 
worse to fit out piratical cruisers, or to 
engage in the foreign slave trade, than 
to pursue a similar trade along our 



Editors, which was at the same term 
tried against against Garrison alone — 
Lundy being out of the State. The 
Jury, without hesitation, found a verdict 
of guilty, and after an ineffectual at- 
tempt to arrest the judgement, upon 
technical objections, the Court imposed 
a fine of $50. This the Defendent was 
either unable or unwilling to pay, and 
he was therefore committed, and remain- 
ed in jail for some time, till it was satis- 
fied. 

A private action for this libel had been 
instituted by Mr. Todd against both the 
Editors; but in consequence of Lundy's 
absence, the process was served only on 
Garrison, who was in fact the writer of 
the article. After his conviction in the 
City Court, he was distinctly informed 
through his Council, that as Mr. Todd 
had no vindictive feelings to gratify, the 
suit would be withdrawn, if a proper 
apology, and recantation of the calumny 
were put upon record. This offer Mr. 
Garrison not only refused, but while in 
confinement, published a pamphlet con- 



, \ , » r tt tu . tainmer, with his report 01 tbe tnal, a 

the vessel, and Mr. Henry Thompson, to "* ""J *»» *V 1 ' *,. °, » , , m . ,,,,_,. 

11 ; ,„„a ;^ T}, t i m ,, Q republication of the libel, ana a numtiei 

whom she was consigned in .Baltimore. » ... ';..., f i,- n. ;.-.*' 

mi r>! • a> .u .0 .,„» „ . of gross insinuations against tue bluet 



coasts ; and the men who have the 
wickedness to participate therein, for the 
purpose of heaping up wealth, should be 
(L/^sentenceo to solitary CONFINE- 
WENT kok life ; c= /3} they are the enemies 
of their oivn species — highway robbers and 
murdeiers ; and their final doom will be, 
unless they speedly repent, to occupy the 
lowest depths of perdition. I know that 
our laws make a distinction in this mat- 
ter. I know that the man who is allow- 
ed to freight his vessel with slaves at 
home, for a distant market, would be 
thought worthy of death if he should 
take a similar freight on the coast of 
Africa; but I know, too, that this dis- 
tinction is absurd, and at war with the 
common sense of mankind, and that 
God and good men regard it with abhor- 
rence. 

I recollect that it was always a myste- 
ry in Newburyport how Mr. Todd con- 
trived to make profitable voyages to 
New Orleans and other places, when 
other merchants, with as fair an oppor- 
tunity to make money, and sending at 
the same ports at the same time, invaria- 
bly made fewer successful speculations. 
Tho mystery seems to be unravelled, 
Any man can gather up riches, if he 
does not care by what means they are 
obtained. 

The Francis carried off seventy-five 
slaves, chained in a narrow space be- 
tween deck^. Captain Brown originally 
intended to take one hundred and fifty of 
these unfortunate creatures; but anoth- 
er hard-hearted shipmaster underbid 
him in the price of passage for the re- 
maining moiety. Captain 1$. we believe, 
is a mason. Where was his charity or 
brotherly kindness ? 

I respectfully request the editor of the 
Newburyport Herald to copy this article, 
orjmblish a statement of the facts con- 
rained herein— not for the purpose of 
giving information to Mr. Todd, for I 
shall send him a copy of this uumber. but 
in order to enlighten the public mind in 
that quarter, — g. 

At the succeeding February term of 
Baltimore City Court, the Grand Jury 
presented this publication as a " gross 
and malicious libel." They afterwards 
found an Indictment against both the 



board the ship Francis, from seventy-five 
to one hundred black people, for account 
of Mr. Milligan, a very respectable plan- 
ter on the Banks of the Mississippi; and 
that they made this engagement without 
consulting the owner of the ship, neither 
could he have known it, uni'ii about the 
time of her sailing from Baltimore. That 
Mr. Thompson and himself were the 
Agents of the_Francis in Baltimore 
That he sailed 'from the port of Baltimore 
with the said ship about the 20th of Oc- 
tober, having no slaves on board, and 
proceeded down the Chesapeak Bay as 
far as Herring Cove, where he received 
on board of the Francis eighty-eight 
black passengers in families, all brought 
up together on two estates in Calvert 
County ; and that they were all perfectly 
willing to come on board the ship — nor 
was any one required to compel them, 
they having a perfect understanding with 
their new master, Milligan, who was pre- 
sent at the time of their embarkation, 
tiiat they were not to be sold again at 
New Orleans— but that he intended 
them all for his own estate. That Mr. 
Thompson and Deponent provided for 
them on board the ship, previous to her 
departure from Baltimore, the best pro- 
visions ; in addition to which, by request 
of Mr. Milligan, Mr. Thompson put on 
board, expressly for their use, tea, cof- 
fee, sugar, molasses, wiskey, tobacco, 
&c. &c. with every kind of convenience 
for using the same, and clothing of eve- 
ry description to make them comfurta- 
ble,.which was dealt out to them day 
after day, while on the passage, at my 
discretion ; that they all expressed much 
satisfaction at their treatment while on 
board the ship; that they had their perfect 
liberty on board, that their conduct was 
good at all times; that they needed not 
chains or confinement, nor was any one 
of them put in chains or confined during 
the whole passage. That after Depo- 
nent took them on board, he returned up 
the Bay as far as Annapolis, where they J 
were all examined by an officer of the 
Customs, and regularly cleared from that 
port for New Orleans" That about the \ 
middle of November he landed them all 
in good health and spirits, on the planta- 
tion for which they were intended, be- 
longing to Mr. Milligan, 17 or 20 miles 
below the city of New Orleans. That 
their quarters on board the ship Francis 
were large and not narrow, that all of 
them had good comfortable sleeping 
places or berths, and that they were well 
provided with a plenty of blankets, &c. 
&c. — that the ship's hatches were never 
closed on them during the wole passage 
for any other purpose than to protect 
them from rough and wet weather and 
make them comfortable. Finally, from 
the very high opinion Deponent has of 
the honor and integrity of Mr. Milligan, 
their owner, he considers Ids act in car- 
rying these people away as one of the 
best of his life. 

Let it be remembered, that he was not 
the cause of their bondage, but that he 
has actually relieved their condition in 
some degree by carrying them to a cli- 
mate much more congenial to their na- 
ture. Mr. Francis Todd and Deponent 
were brought up together at Newbury- 
port, from children, arid he has known 
both him and his business up to this 
time, and never knew him to carry slaves 
in any of his vessels, and he verily and 
conscientiously believes he never had a 
slave or slaves carried in any vessel of 
his to any part of the world, except in 
the solitary instance of the ship Francis 



Judge of the Court. 

At the trial of the civil suit, the publi- 
cation having been proved, Mr. Jones, 
the Pilot of the Francis, testified that 
the negroes were taken on board at Her-j 
ring Bay, and that the ship then pro- 
ceeded to Annapolis to obtain the ne- 
cessary Custom House papers: — that 
they came on board cheerfully and wil- 
lingly — and that while he remained with 
them, which was until he left the Capes, 
t'tey appeared to be contented and hap- 
py. That unusual attention seemed to 
liave been given to their comfort and 
accommodation ; — their births were 
commodious, the women and children 
being separated from the men;— their 
provisions abundant and of good quality; 
— extra stores provided for them, which 
were distributed daily to them by Cap- 
tain Brown, and that the clothing which 
had been furnished by Mr. Milligan, was 
amply sufficient for ther wants. He fur- 
ther deposed that they were treated with 
kindness by Captain Brown; — that they 
were under no restraint, but were per- 
mitted to go about the ship by day audi 
night, as other passengers, and that no 
chains, hand-cuffs,'or other fetters, were I 
used in any instance, nor did he believe! 
that there were any on board the vessel. 

The deposition of Capt. Nicholas I 
Brown was then read by consent, in 
which he stated — 

That about the middle of the month 
of September, 1829, became on to Balti- 
more, to take charge of the ship Francis, 
of Neburyport, belonging to Francis 
Todd, merchant of that place, the said 
ship being consigned for freight or oth- 
erwise, to Henry Thompson, merchant 
of this city — That in the month of Octo- 
ber following, Mr. Thompson and himself 
engaged to carry to New Orleans on 



aforesaid, and he knows he never owne's 
a slave in his life. 

Nicholas Bbown. 

Sworn and subscribed to before 

Samuel Pickering, 

A Justice of the Peace of $he Stav 
Maryland, for the City of Baltimore* 
on the 9th of September, 1830. 

Here the case closed on the part of 
the Plaintiff. The defendant did not 
attempt any justification of the truth of 
the matters published ; — he examined no 
witnesses, and the cause having been 
submitted to the Jury, they returned a 
virdict for the Plaintiff, with damages of 
One Thousand Dollars. 




sometime previous to the meeting of 
the National Anti-masonic Conven- 
tion at Philadelphia, Mr. Poinsett 
came to JVew-York. That he had a 
right to do. Just one day previous to 
the meeting of that Convention, he 
left New-York for Philadelphia. If 
we mistake not, we saw him nearly 
every day of the session, at the Mu- 
sical Fund Hall, an attentive looker- 
on and listner. On the Monday next 
after the adjournment of the Conven- 
tion, he returned to New-York. VVe 
returned in the same boat with him. 
From the Delaware boat to the Rari- 
ton we were in the same stage. Thin 




■ 




1 



■SB ■• 

■ ■ 
tf ■ I ■ 1 1 




1 1 

IBB 




«.■* *» 




• 







,. if ■ • . ■ 









surpassed in point of talents, devotion 
to the cause, and successful labor, by 
that of any New-England college. — 
We are anxious to see more Boston 
names on their list; — -Traveller. 



r 



SUMMARY 



A correspondent of a Philadelphia 
paper, cautions the consumers of coal 
in the following terms :— 

" It may not be generally known, that 
in burning stone-coal, a gas is generated 
precisely similar to that from charcoal, 
and is equally destructive of life ; hence, 
there is great necessity for housekeepers 
to pay particular attention to their grates, 
to see that the flues have not become 
obstructed by the dust that rises in con- 
siderable quantities whenever the fire is 
disturbed. The caution is the more ne- 
cessary, as from the form of some of the 
grates, especially those made of cast 
iron, the eye cannot detect the obstruc- 
tion ; and also, from a new plan of con- 
structing kitchen grates, the flue of the 
chimney is at times entirely closed by a 
valve. Under these circumstances, the 
air of the apartment creates an unpleas- 
ant suffocating sensation, which will 
lead, if attended to, to a discovery of the 
cause ; but if through inattention a per- 
son should fall asleep in a room thus sit- 
uated, with the door closed, death must 
inevitably be the consequeuce." 

The Gale. — The storm of Thurs- 
day last, as was feared, occasioned 
considerable damage to the shipping 
on the east coast and in some of the 
harbors; and from Mr. Topliff's 
books, we gathered such particulars, 
as have yet been obtained. From 
Wellfleet we learn that brig Echo, 
of and for Portland from Havana, 
with a cargo of molasses, was cast 
away on the Cape, near Newcomb 
Hollow:; vessel, cargo, and one 
hand named Hutchinson, of Portland, 
lost. At Holmes' Hole, considera- 
ble damage was sustained by the 
shipping. Several vessels had run 
ashore, and would have to discharge 
before they could be got. off; among 
others, were schooners Astrea, from 
Georgetown, cargo flour, and Five 
Brothers from Richmond. — Traveller. 



The Solar Eclipse of February next. — 
The American Almanac, just published, 
contains a great variety of calculations 
relative to tiie great solar eclipse which 
will be visible throughout the U. S. on 
the 12th February next. The eclipse 
will begin in Boston at 11 o'clock, 49m. 
26s. A. M. — The time of the greatest ob- 
scuration will be at lb. 12m. lis., the end 
will be 2h. 46m. 58s. and the duration will 
be 2h. 57m. 32s, The digits eclipsed will 
lid. 27m. 27s. 

Much consternation prevailed at St. 
Thomas, in consequence of the arraiH 
gements entered into between the Unit- 
ed States and England, for the opening 
of the British Colonial ports. It was 
apprehended that the trade of St. Thom- 
as would be essentially injured. A seri- 
vlis HistMrb n i mo ha s b roken out in St 
Barts, atising from the jealousies exist- 
ing between the white and colored pop- 
ulation. The date of our last accounts 
Oct. 27) it had not been adjusted. 



The Federal Geo. Union states, th 
not half the quantity of spirits is us< 
by the members of the present Legist 
tare, which was consumed at the se 
sions four or live years ago. Good, 
may be hoped that the fact may be e\ 
denced in the increased temperance ai 
discretion of their acts. 

Poivder Mill Blown up. — On Fridi 
last, the Powder Mill in this town, b 
longing to Daniel Rand, Esq. was blow 
up.— Fortunately the accident oecun 
whilst the hands were gone to dinne 
and no lives were injured. It is n- 
known what occasioned it. There we 
only about 25 kegs of power in tf 
works at the time, the whole of whic 
was destroyed, together with the builc 
ing, which was blown to atoms. Tl 
loss to Mr. Rand will not probably e; 
ceed 500 or $600.— Middletown Seal. 

Aristocracy of the Skin. — According 1 
Paris papers tor September, the cond 
tion of the free coloured population ( 
Gaudafoupe and Martinique had bee 
taken into consideration in the Chamb< 
of Deputies. M. Alex. Laborde urge 
the necessity, now that they were modi 
rating all aristocracies, to moderate "th 
most stupid of them all— the aristocrac 
of the skin." 

Conflagration Prevented. — About 
o'clock "yesterdaymorning two watch me' 
discovered a fire in the tower of the nc 
meeting house, recently erected (bu 
yet unfinished) by Dr. Beecher's Societ 
in Bowdoin street. It was occasione 
by the slacking of several casks of linn 
which had been left exposed to the rail 
and were half covered with water. Th 
light of the fire was seen at some dis 
tance. It was extinguished by th 
watchman, without making any alarn 
Boston Cour, 

NOTICE. 

The voters of Ward 12 are requeste 
to meet at the Franklin School Hous. 
this evening at 6 1-2 o'clock, for the pui 
pose of making the preparatory arrange 
ments for the choice of Ward and Cit 
Officers, to be chosen on the Monda; 
following* 

Boston, Decembers. 






Q- 



"d 



-■''',' i 



NOTICE 



M 






The Proceedings of the Anti Ma 
sonic 0. S* Convention are received 
and can be had by sending to Joht 
Marsh St. Co. The Delegates fron 
Mass. and those from Vermont eas 
of the Mountain, can find their cop 
ies, by sending their order to J. M. & 
Co. The price of the book at retai 
is fifty cents: All orders sent tc 
J. M. & Co. or to the office of Bos- 
ton Press or Christian Herald wil 
receive immediate attention. 
Dec. 1. 1830. 



A pamphlet has been published in 
New York entitled " The Great week in 
Parish It is the production of Charles 
S. Cochrane, a captain in the Royal Na- 

,vy who was an eye-witness of all the 
events of the memorable week which 
ensued upon the atrocious attempt to 

I put down by force the liberty of the 
press. 

A thief, lately committed by a London 
Magistrate, was found to have this text, 
from Timothy, written on the lining of 
his hat : — "continue in the ways which 
thou hast learned, and which thou art 
aspired of!" 

Amount of duties arising on merchan- 
dise imported into the District of Boston 
and Charlestown during the third quar- 
ter of the present year, $1, 228, 770 42. 

Jame Merrill, of Penobscot co. Me. the 
present season, raised an English Tur- 
nip, which weighed^ without the top, 25 
1-2 lbs. and with the top, 33 lbs. 

The city and county of Philadelphia 
contain upwards of twenty thousand 
votes, one eight of the freemen of Penn- 

jsylvania, who exercise the right of suf- 

I frage. 

One Frederick A. Klouse has been 

Isenteneed to 10 years' imprisonment in 
Washington Co. Md. for kidnapping a 
slave, carrying him to Louisville, Ky., 

laud selling him to a Louisiana planter. 

[Klouse was once a pirate on the high 

Iseas. 

By an order of the Board of Aldermen, 
iHourly Coaches are forbidden to stand 
lin Washingtou-st. from and after the 
|15th inst. 

Portable gas is manufactored in New 
lYork, by Isaiah Jennings, for which let- 
ters patent have been taken out. It is 
said to afford a clear and pleasant light, 
[without any smoke, and can be burned 
in ail kinds of lamps. The expense does 
|not exceed that of oil. 

Three newspapers have been suspend- 
ed in Maine within the last three weeks, 
viz: — the Maine Gazette, Bath; the 
Thomaston Register, and the Wiscasset 
[Citizen. 

The Rev. John Mitchell, late editor of 

[the Christian Spectator, bus been called 

to take the charge of the Congregational 

Church lately organized at Fair-Haven, 

and will be ordained on Wednesday, the 

1 8th of December. 

It is understood, from a satisfactory 
[source, that the amount of Gold received 
[at the Mint from the Southern States, 
[with in the first three quarters of the 
[present year, has been nearly $320,000, 
[while that received from foreign sources, 
[within the same period, amounts to little 
■more than half that sum. — Charleston 
\CouT. 



Freemasons in East Bridgewatef 
Hon. INathaniel Mitchel — Hon, 
Aaron Hobart — Wallace Rust, Et'q, 
— Doct. Hec'or Orr — Ebenezer To- 
man — Capt. Nathaniel Cross — Capt^ 
Branch Byram-— William Bonney- 
Edward Vinton, Esq. — Samuel Sea- 
ver, Esq. — Ephraim Hyde — Barthol- 
omew Trow. 



Freemasons in Halifax, 

Abial White, 

sCT' There is only one Freemason 
in Halifax, he would do well to re- 
nounce, as he must be lonesome. 



MARRIAGES. 

In this city, Mr William B. Baker 
to Miss Adeline M. Wright— Mr 
Matthew S. Foster to Miss Hannah 
B. Low — Mr. Aaron Dana to Miss 
Elizabeth C. F. Hayden— Mr Ed- 
ward H. Whittakerto Miss Elizabeth 
H. Barnard. 

In Charlestown, George W. Rob- 
inson, of the firm of Robinson & Wig- 
gin, of this city, to Miss Mary Jew- 
ett. 

In Dorchester, Mr Henry Hum- 
phreys to Miss Sarah Blake C la " 
eldest daughter of Mr Richard C 

In Dedham,on Thanksgiving e 
in^, by Rev. Mr Lamson, Mr 
seph Tufts, of Newton, to Miss I 
M. Clapp. of Dedham. 

In West Bridgewater; Mr Ch; 
A. Macomber, of Boston, to ] 
Martha, youngest daughter of 
late Edwin Howard, Esq. 

DEATHS. 

In Charlestown, on Saturday 
Miss Elizabeth P. daughter of C 
E. Hammond, aged 16 years. 

In Roxbury, Mr. William Mac 
ty, aged 57. 

In Quincy, William G. Smith, a 
42. 

In Lowell, Mrs Georgiana Ma 
ret, wife of John Lowell, Jr. I 
aged 24. 

In Haverhill, Mr James Simp: 
Jr. aged 45 — Miss Abigail Bu; 
aged 35 — Charles Wesley Jor< 
13. 

In Plymouth, Mr Stephen Pa 
aged 21 — Capt. William Pearson 
revolutionary patriot. 

In Monson, Mr Emory Hyde. 
Sturbridge, aged 25. He was oe 
pied in his usual employment u 
Saturday, 30th, and on Sabb 
morning following he was found de 

In Conway, Mr Adolphus Bac-.., 
aged 43. He was kicked by a horse 
and died in a few minutes. 

In Stamford, Ct. after a short ill- 



■© 
aged 



ness, the Hon. John Davenport, 
aged 79. He was steadily a Repre- 
sentative in Congress from the State, 
of Connecticut, from 1739 to 181.7* 



