i\i:^^M^^AA-^A^A-A^^Al^^Afi.^ 



m 

m 






MEMOIRS i* 

OF THE ^ 

LIVES I 

OP ^ 

BENJAMIN LAY | 

AND p^ 

RALPH SANDIFORD; ^ 



grWO OP THE r.ARLTEST PUBLIC ADVOCAXr.S •[ 



« 



FOR THE EMANCIPATION OF 

THE ENSLAVED AFRICANS. 



Sr ROBERTS VAVX. 



Pascitur in vivis livor, post fata quiescit, f 
Tunc suus, ex merito, quemque tuetur b«ior." 



9^ 



^ 



m 



^1^ 



FRILABELTHIA: 

PUBLISHED BY SOLOMON W. CONRAD;, 
No. 87, High-street. 

1815. 

W. Brown, Printer. 






.#.afM.«.».M.«Lt» 






94XX<M)V[?J/2^PRESENT.D TO T^^^'^'^^VJI 



3/3, (^fiL- 



/y^^^ cU^ 







L. 



:^rre,,^/.^^^L£ ' 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library^/ The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/memoirsoflivesofOOvaux 







■Si 



'd 



y^S'fiM^^mi^ny^.a^w. 



MEMOIRS 

OF THE 

LIVES 

OF 

BENJAMIN LAY 

AND 

RALPH SANDIFORD; 

TWO OF THE EARLIEST PUBLIC ADVOCATES 

FOR THE EMANCIPATION OF 

THE ENSLAVED AFRICANS. 



BF ROBERTS FAUX. 



" Pascitur in vivis livor, post fata quiescit, 

" Tunc suus, ex merito, quemque tuetur honor.'* 



TRILJiBELFHIA: 

PUBLISHED BY SOLOMON W. CONRAD, 

No. 187, High-street. 

1815. 

W. Brown, Printer, 



District of Feiinsylvania^ to wit : 

BE IT REMEMBERED, that on the eighth day of Novem- 
ber, m the fortieth year of the Independence of the United 
States of America, A, D. 1815, Solomon W. Conrad, of the said 
District, hatli deposited in this office, the title of a book, the 
right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following, 
to wit; 

" Memoirs of the Lives of Benjamin Lay and Ralph Sandiford ; 
*' two of the earliest public advocates for the emancipation 
*'of the enslaved Africans. By Roberts Vaux. 

** Pascitur in vivis livor, post fata quiescit, 

" Tunc suus, ex merito, quemque tuetur honor." 

In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States, 
entitled '* An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing 
the copies of maps, charts, and books to the authors and proprie- 
tors of such copies during the limes therein mentioned." And 
also to the act entitled, ' An act supplementary to an act, entitled 
" An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the co- 
pies of maps, charts, and books, to the autliors and proprietors of 
such copies during the times therein mentioned,' and extending the 
benefits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching 
historical and other prmts." 

D. CALDWELL, 
Clerk of the District of Pennsylvania, 



TO 

CASPAR WISTAR, M. D. 

TROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF 
PENNSYLVANIA, 

PRESIDENT OF THE PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY FOR 
PROMOTING THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, &C.— 
AND OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, 

&c. Sec. 

THIS LITTLE VOLUME 

IS GRATEFULLY AND RESPECTFULLY 



IJSrSCRIBED, 



BY HIS AFFECTIONATE NEPHEW, 

THE AUTHOR. 



PREFACE. 

X HE design of this Introduction is 
not to make the customary apologies of 
authorship, nor to furnish in justifica- 
tion of this publication, a Tariety of in- 
genious reasons, which may have had 
no influence with the writer. 

His sole object, and the utmost ex- 
tent of his views has been, to furnish 
whatever his feeble eftorts could contri- 
bute toward rescuing from unmerited 
forgetfulness; the names and services of 
Benjamin Lay and Balph Sandiford, 
both of whom, in his opinion, deserve 

B 



U PREFACE. 

to be held in honourable estimation, so 
long as it is admitted that memory is 
performing her noblest office when aid- 
ing tlie obligations of gratitude and 
justice. 

The subsequent memoirs will not in- 
troduce the reader to the knowledge 
of men, who liaye distinguished them- 
selyes as warriors in the battle which 
is " with confused noise^ and garments 
rolled in blood^^^ — who liaye attained a 
rank among the luminaries of science, 
or have been eleyated to notice by a 
splendid career of senatorial greatness; 
features in the human character which 
generally excite the respect of nations, 
awaken the admiration, and beget the 



PREFACE. Ill 

applause of mankind — and secure to 
such as appear in those higher spheres 
of action, the certainty of biographical 
honour. But with tliose vfho, with the 
author, believe in the truth of St. 
Pierre's assertion, " that the man rvho 
can produce two blades of grass^ where 
only one grew before^ is a greater bene- 
factor to ^nankind than Caesar or Mea^- 
ander^^^ — the individuals whose servi- 
ces it is his purpose now to delineate 
and record, have the fairest claims to 
the respect of tlxe human race. 

Among the events which occasion- 
ally appear in the history of nations, 
to dignify and adorn their character, 
and shed over them a ray of genuine 



IV PREFACE. 

greatness and glory, the abolition of 
the African slaye trade must be admit- 
ted to hold a conspicuous place. It was 
one of the purest oiferings ever borne 
by lay/givers to the altar of justice — 
the most acceptable tribute which le- 
gislative power could pay at the shrine 
of mercy. Wliilst, however, it is cus- 
tomary to admire the wisdom, and ap- 
plaud the virtue of those governments 
which have wiped such pollution from 
their name, it should equally be a plea- 
sure and a duty, to recognize the la- 
bours of individuals in that noble cause 
of reformation and benevolence. It 
would be difficult to calculate precisely 
how extensive and availing the effort^ 
of two men might -be, in correcting 



/ ^ 



PREFACE. V 

the opinions of a large community, es- 
pecially if their exertions should be so 
much in opposition to the interests, the 
habits, and sentiments of a people, as 
to excite towards them the spirit of in- 
tolerance and persecution. This re- 
mark is certainly applicable to the his- 
tory of Lay and Sandiford, who were 
among" the first of the very few in any 
country that had just conceptions of 
the rights of the enslaved Africans, and 
sufficient firmness to avow their opi- 
nions concerning the cruelty which was 
triumphantly exercised over that op- 
pressed race of men. 

At the period when they went forth 
distributing their essays, proclaiming 



yi PREFACE. 

tlie iniquity inseparable from the trade 
in human flesh, and shewing the in- 
consistency which marked the conduct 
of Christians, who held their fellow 
creatures in bondage, the opposition to 
their views and wishes was so general 
and so intense, that it is believed from 
that cause the intellect of those re- 
markable men became partially aifect- 
ed. But who will question that they 
were instrumental (at a great sacrifice 
indeed) in laying the foundation of the 
change of opinion, which afterward be- 
came universal in this commonwealth, 
and spread its benign influence through 
neighbouring states, and to remote na- 
tions? 



PREFACE. Vll 

Of those, therefore, for whom they 
did so much, in order to persuade themi 
to be just to themselves, and to their 
afflicted fellow men, it is fair to en- 
quire — lia^e you repaid the measure 
of justice due to your benefactors ? — 
Candour must reply in the negative. 
No memorial invites the eye to that 
" clod of the valley, ^^ which mingles 
with then' mortal relics — no volume 
records the story of their eccentric and 
devoted lives. The place of their re- 
sidence — the nature of their occupa- 
tions^ — the habitations v/here theu' 
earthly pilgrimage was closed, have 
been involved in doubt and uncertain- 
ty — and now indistinctly linger upon 
the recoUectioii of most of the few re- 



Vlll . PREFACE. 

maining individuals,* who were in the 
morning of life, when old age and dis- 
ease terminated their existence. 

Notwithstanding the disadvantages 
which attended the collection of mate- 
rials for their biography, at this remote 
period from the time in which they 
lived, and the consequent paucity of 
matter which could be procured for 



* In searching for information respecting Lay 
and Sandiford, visits were made to most of the old- 
est inhabitants in the neighbourhoods where they had 
lived. The combined ages of ten of those persons 
amounts to eight hundred and twenty-one years, and 
it is remarkable, that all these ancient pepple ap- 
peared to enjoy unusual health and strength; and 
in most instances their faculties were unimpaired. 
On enquiring, several of theni said, they had ob- 
served through life great temperance in drinking. 



PREFACE. IX 

the purgose; these causes have not 
operated to discourage the publication 
of tke fragments which were gath- 
ered. 

The result, such as it is, is now sub- 
mitted to the public, as a sincere tri- 
bute to the memory of those worthy 
men, — an effort, the best which it was 
in the power of the author to make, to 
perpetuate the recollection of their vir- 
tues. 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



BENJAMIN LAY. 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



BENJAMIN LAY, &c, 



Benjamin lay was bom at Colches- 
ter^ in the County of Essex^ Great Britain^ 
Anno Domini 1677- His parents^ who were 
members of the Society of Friends, careful- 
ly instructed him in the religious principles 
v/hich they professed, but their pecuniary 
resources did not enable them to bestow 
upon their son, more than the rudiments of 
learning, as taught in the lower order of 
English schools. 

At an early period of his youth, he was 
placed an apprentice with a glove-maker, in 



11 

whose service he continued for gome time. 
Before^ however^ he had attained his nine- 
teenth year, he ahandoned this employment; 
and went to reside on a farm in the tenure of 
Lis brother. In this situation he remained 
until the independence which the age of man- 
hood confers, permitted him to gratify the 
leading inclination of his mind^ which with- 
drew him from the interesting and innocent 
employments of agriculture^ to encounter the 
hardships and perils of the life of a sailor. 

Whilst thus employed^ he visited various 
sections of the globe. In a memorandum ex- 
tant, he relates, that he served eighteen 
months on board a ship of four hundred tons 
burthen, in a voyage to Scanderoon, and it 
is probable that during the stay of the ves- 
sel at that port, he made an excursion to the 
interior of Syria; for he (3ften related, among 
other incidents connected with his ocean- 
wandering, that he had visited the memora- 
ble spot, where the Saviour of the World 
conversed with the woman of Samaria, and 
had refreshed himself by a draft of water 



15 

from Jacobus i(^elL'^ His maritime employ- 
ment terminated iu 17 10^ when he was mar- 
ried to one of his countrywomen, and set- 
tled in the town of his nativity. But little is 
known concerning him daring several years 
of this part of his iife^ excepting that he ap- 
pears to have taken an interest in some of 
the public topics and controversies, by which 
the close of the seventeenth, and commence- 
ment of the eighteenth centuries^ were distin^ 
guished. Fie presented, in person, to George 
the First^ and Second^ a copy of John Mil- 
ton^s pamphlet, entitled ^^ Considerations 
touching the likeliest means fa remove, hire- 
lings out of the Church f^ and on the occa- 
sion of the last of these interviews;, he w ag 
admitted to a private audience of the royal 

* Vide Jobnj chap, iv, 5, Sec. The interesdng in- 
terview with the woman of Samaria, probably took 
place on the same spot, which is thus noticed by Cha- 
teaubriand—" A little farther on (says that eloquent 
author) v/e alighted at the fountain where Christ was 
accustomed to rest with his apostles, as he returned 
from Jericho."-Vide Travels in Greece, Palestine^ fSc. 
ixs 1806-7, page 289. Philadelphia Edition, 



16 

family. To what extent^ and in what maa- 
ner, he participated in the contests of the 
times, cannot now be accurately ascertain- 
ed. It is fair to presume, however, that he 
exceeded the bounds which limited'his breth- 
ren in religious community ; for in the year 
1717 they were induced to disunite him from 
membership among them, and as no charge 
of immoral conduct was ever preferred 
against him, this measure is probably to be 
attributed to the part which he took in the 
controversies just mentioned. 

As he approaches nearer to us by the 
lapse of time, traits of his character are de- 
veloped, which establish the belief that h^ 
w as one of those extraordinary men, w^hose 
career through life excited observation and 
alarm. If the comparison be admissible, he 
appeared rather like the comet, which threat- 
ens, in its irregular course, iliQ destruction of 
the worlds near which it passes, than as one 
qf those tranquil orbs which hold their ac^ 
customed place, and dispense their light, m 
theharmjonioiis order of heaven. 



17 

III 171s, at the age of forty-one years, he 
removed from his native land to the island of 
Barbadoes, and there established himself in 
mercantile business. Here he is exhibited ia 
a new and interesting field of action, in 
w^hich he appears to have taken a bold and 
decided part. At this period, the African 
slave trade was carried on, if possible, with 
more intense cruelty, than at any previous 
or subsequent stage of its uniformly iniqui- 
tous history. The treatment to which the 
unhappy victims of avarice were subjected in 
the service of their masters, on the planta- 
tions of the West Indian islands, furnished a 
melancholy proof of the application of hu- 
man ingenuity exerted in the* contrivance 
of the most barbarous punishments, — as well 
as the absence of all compassion, from 
the hearts of those whose mandate directed, 
and whose power inflicted them. Thus a 
witness of scenes which were calculated to 
excite the keenest sensibility, and awaken 
the tenderest sympathy of his nature, Benja-^ 
min Lay became singularly enlightened, in 

relation to the injustice and oppression exer- 

c S 



IS 

cised toward the people of Africa. From 
that moment^ every faculty of his mind was 
exerted^ to render odious, not only in the 
opinion of the community in which he lived, 
but among mankind universally, a traffic 
which begot so much crime — entailed so 
much misery — and threatened such awful 
retribution from the Omnipotent and regard- 
ful Parent of the whole human family. 

" Justum, et tenacem propositi virum, 
Non civium ardor prava jubentium 
Non vultus instantis tyranni 
Mente qtiatit solida." Horace. 

We now find this philanthropic advocate 
of the oppressed, fearlessly engaged in pub- 
lic and private admonition with all who 
were in any degree implicated in the crime 
of enslaving their species ; and whilst he zea- 
lously pleaded with the oppressor for the ex- 
tension of clemency, he was equally conspi- 
cuous for the practical benevolence which he 
manifested toward the subjects of his com- 
passion. Whenever he met the slaves of the 
island, he noticed them with kindness and 



19 

eommiseration. They soon became generally 
acquainted with his views and exertions in 
their favour, and as an evidence of gratitude to 
their benefactor, they came from the neighbour- 
ing farms on the sabbath day and assembled 
around his house in the town, to the number 
of many hundreds ; and he thus had an op- 
portunity of conveying to them suitable ad- 
vice, and also of furnishing them gratuitously 
with simple and wholesome food, as liberal- 
ly as his restricted pecuniary resources would 
allow. In this practice he continued, until 
popular clamour was raised against him, and 
he was denied even the melancholy satisfac- 
tion of shewing liis tenderness for those, whose 
siifferings, at most, he could only mitigate. 
In proportion to the steadiness and determi- 
nation of his testimony against negro bon- 
dage, was the hostility of those who were 
enriched by its existence. Their opposition 
to his truly christian principles at length be- 
came so violent, that after having endured 
the conflict for several years, and perceiving 
no prospect of effecting any change in the 
conduct of the slave-holders, he resolved to 



seek an asylum in another country. This re- 
solution, when communicated to his wife, she 
entirely approved. Her mind was deeply af- 
fected with the subject of slavery, and she 
said on that occasion, " that she wished to 
leave Barbadoes^ lest by remaining there she 
might be leavened into the nature of the in- 
habitants^ which was pride and oppressions^ 
After having resided thirteen years in Bar- 
foadoes, he came to Philadelphia in 1731. 

Having followed him to the shores of our 
own country, it may be proper, before pro- 
ceeding farther in his history, to furnish a 
description of his personal appearance; for 
his physical organization was not less re- 
markable than the qualities of his mind were 
rare and extraordinary. He was only four 
feet seven inches in height; his head was 
large in proportion to his body; the features 
of his face were remarkable, and boldly de- 
lineated, and his countenance was grave and 
benignant. He was hunch-backed, with a 
projecting chest, below which his body be- 
came much contracted. His legs were so 



21 

sleiulerj as to appear almost unequal to tlie 
purpose of supporting him, diminutive as his 
frame was, in comparison with the ordinary 
size of the human stature. A habit he had 
contracted, of standing in a twisted position, 
with one hand resting upon his left hip, add- 
ed to the effect produced by a large white 
beard, that for many years had not been 
shaved, contributed to render his figure per- 
fectly unique. It is singular, that his wife 
very much resembled him in size, having a 
crooked back like her husband, and the si- 
milarity of their appearance even excited the 
remarks of the slaves in Barbadoes, who 
used to say when they saw them together, 
^' That ittle hackararar^ man^ go all over 
ivorldy see for that hackararar woman fm^ 
himseW^ 

On his arrival in Pennsylvania, it was 
soon discovered that his character was ec- 
centric. The practice of holding slaves was 
general in the province, though they were 

* Name for Europeans or white people. 



^2 

treated more mildly than their debased coun- 
trymen in the West Indies. Lay was, how- 
ever, established in the pious doctrine that 
the odious system of slavery was altogether 
unrighteous, and with the same zeal with which 
he had begun^ he continued to reprobate the 
conduct of every one who participated in the 
custom. His independence of opinion^ and 
freedom of expression, rendered him a less 
welcome emigrant than those who could 
quietly approve, or openly adopt the habits 
of the times, and his sentiments met with 
vigorous opposition from every quarter. Thus 
this champion of justice, of human rights, 
siiul reformation, found himself again an al- 
most solitary combatant in a field where pre- 
judice and avarice, had marshalled their 
combined forces against him. His disap- 
pointment at being thus received in Phila- 
delphia, the very name of which promised 
tranquillity and repose to his long afflicted 
heart, gave a new, and as was at first sup- 
posed, a misanthropic determination to his 
mind. His intention, when he left Barbadoes, 
was to have resided in the citv, but he now 



S3 

vesolved to fix his resi(]eiice in a more retired 
situation in the country. 

Conformably with this plan, he procured 
a few acres of land, situate between Ger- 
mantown and the old York road, about six 
miles north of Philadelphia, and not far dis- 
tant from the present village of Mileston, 
On the rural spot of his choice, he built a 
cottage, resembling, in its construction, ai 
cave, planted a small orchard, and for utility 
and ornament, cultivated near the front of his 
humble dwelling several walnut trees, which 
remain venerable and living monuments of 
the place of his first habitation in Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Having completed his house, he removed 
to it in 173s, He now adopted habits of 
the most rigid temperance, self-denial, and 
frugality, which he ever after observed. He 
drank nothing but water and milk, and sub- 
sisted altogether upon vegetable diet. His 
clothing was entirely composed of tow fa- 
bric, of his own spinning, and of the natu- 



2^ 

ral colour. His tender conscience would not 
permit him to eat any food, nor wear any 
garment, nor use any article which was pro- 
cured at the expense of animal life, or that 
was in the remotest degree, the product of 
the labour of slaves. Thus purified, by what 
he conceived to be obligatory and necessary 
to qualify him for the great duty assigned 
him, he went forth with fresh animation to 
disseminate his principles. Excepting the 
time requisite for procuring food and rai- 
ment, he was altogether devoted to. the in- 
culcation of his doctrines ; and for the pro- 
motion of them, he visited several of the go- 
vernors of the neighbouring provinces, as 
well as other influential characters, in church 
and state. He omitted no opportunity to 
endeavour to interest every one with whom he 
met in the benevolent work he had under- 
taken; and to effect this, he adopted various 
means — some of which w^ere so extravagant 
as to induce the belief that his intellect was 
partially diseased. Although he had been 
disunited from membership with the Society 
of Friends at an early period of his life^ 



2!3 

yet he always avowed their principles, and 
was attached to them as a religious commu- 
nity; but he could not endure the idea, that 
professing as they did, it was proper that 
any of them should hold their fellow beings 
in bondage; hence, he appears to have di- 
rected the most energetic and unceasing as- 
saults upon them ; nor could he be persuaded 
that it must, from the very nature and con- 
stitution of the human mind, be a gradual 
work, if ever they were cleansed as a peo- 
ple from the practice, v/hich, even at that 
time, some of them, with himself, considered 
as an offence in the sight of Divine Purity. 

The following facts will shew some of the 
modes he adopted, to convince the Society 
of Friends, and others, of the impropriety of 
their conduct in keeping slaves. During the 
session of an annual meeting, held at Bur« ' 
lington in New Jersey, Lay proceeded to 
that city. Having previously prepared a 
sufficient quantity of the juice of poke-berry 
(Phytolacca decandra) to fill a bladder, he 



S6 

contrived to conceal it within the cover of a 
large folio volume^ the leaves of which were 
removed. He then put on a military coat, and 
belted a small sword by his side; over the 
whole of this dress he threw his great coat, 
which was made in the most simple manner, 
and secured it upon himself with a single but- 
ton. Thus equipped, he entered the meeting 
house and placed himself in a conspicuous 
situation, from which he addressed the au- 
dience in substance as follows:* 

^^Oh all you negro masters who are con- 
'^ tentedly holding your fellow creatures in a 
^^ state of slavery during life, well knowing 
^* the cruel sufferings those innocent captives 
^^ undergo in their state of bondage, both in 
^^ these North American colonies, and in the 
^^ West India islands; you must know they 

* The particulars of this singular transaclion, and 
the speech, were related to Dr. John Watson, de- 
ceased, formerly of Bucks County, by his friend and 
neighbour, the late Jonathan Ingham, Esquire, who 
was a witness of the scene. 



•* are not made slaves by any direct law, but 
*' are held by an arbitrary and self-interested 
•" custom, in which you participate. And es- 
*'*pecia]ly you who profess ' to do iint* all 
'* wen as ye would they should do unto yoii — 
** and yet, in direct opposition to every prinei* 
*^ pie of reason, humanity, and religion, you 
'' are forcibly retaining your fellow men^ 
'^ from one generation to another, in a state of 
" unconditional servitude; you might as well 
^^ throw oiFthe plain coat as I do'^~(here he 
loosed the button, and the great coat falli'^sg 
behind him, his warlike appearance was ex- 
hibited to his astonished audience) and pro- 
ceeded — ^^ It would be as justiilable in th.e 
^^ sight of the Almighty, who beholds and re- 
^^ spects all nations and colours of men with 
*^ an equal regard, if you should thrust a sword 
*• through their hearts as I do through this 
•'• book.^^ He then drew his sword and pierced 
the bladder, sprinkling its contents over those 
who sat near him. 

On another occasion, when a deep snow 
was on the ground, he stationed himself at 



^8 

a gate way^ opening to one of their meeting 
houses^ having his right leg and foot entire- 
ly uncovered ; as the people went in, several 
of them reasoned wiih him for thus exposing 
himself, and cautioned him against the dan- 
ger of contracting disease hy such conduct. 
'^Ah (said Lay.) t/ou jjretend comjpassion for 
*^ me, hilt you do not feci for the poor slaves 
^^ in your fields, who go all winter half clad J^ 
For the purpose of enforcing upon the mind 
of a neighbour of his, with whom he had 
often remonstrated, a conviction of his guil- 
tiness in keeping a slave, he adopted a plan 
which evinced his knowledge of human na- 
ture. This man had an interesting child, a 
Ijoy of six years old, v/hom Lay sometimes 
met at a distance from the dwelling of his 
parents ; on one of those occasions he suc- 
ceeded in decoying him to his cave, about 
one mile distant, v/ithin which, by means of 
some amusement, he contrived to keep him 
concealed from viev/. As the evening came 
on, Lay observed the father and mother run- 
ning towards his dv/elling; as they drew 
near, discovering their distress, he advanced 



S9 

and met them, enquiring in a feeling manner, 
'Hvhat is the matter^^^ — the afflicted pa- 
rents, apprehensive that they should never 
recover their child, replied with anguish, 
^^Oh Benjamin, Benjamin ! our child is gone, 
he has been missing all day.'^ Lay paused, 
and said, ^^ Yom^ child is safe in my house^ 
'' and you may now conceive of the sorrow you 
'' inflict upon the jparents of the negroe girl 
" you hold in slavery, for she tvas torn from 
^' them by avarice,^' 

In the year 1737, he published a book en- 
titled — ^^ All slave keepers, that keep the in 
" nocent in bondage, apostates. Pretending 
^^ to lay claim to the pure and holy Christian 
^^ religiou, of what congregation soever, but 
*^ especially in their ministers, by whose ex- 
^^ ample the filthy leprosy and apostacy is 
•^ spread far and near ; it is a notorious siu 
^^ which many of the true friends of Christ 
^^ and his pure truth, called Quakers, have 
^' been for many years, and still are, concern- 
^^ ed to write and bear testimony against; as 
*^ a practice so gross and hurtful to religion/ 



30 

'^ and destructive to government^ beyond 
^^ what words can set forth^ or can be declared 
" of by men or angels, and yet lived in by 
'' ministers, and magistrates in America. 

'^ The leaders of the 2)eoj)le cause them to 
err^ 

" Written for a general service, by him 
'' that truly and siucerely desires the present 
" and eternal welfare and happiness of all 
" mankind, all the world over, of all colours, 
■^' and nations, as his own soul/' 

^^ Benjamin Lay.'' 

This work contains many interesting facts, 
and some powerful appeals to the judgment 
and feelings. In some parts, however, it 
manifests the same intolerance of the mis- 
takes of others, which characterises the other 
productions of the author on the subject of 
slavery, and which, at the time of this pub- 
lication, was calculated, by the obstinacy, 
%vhich it was likely to excite, rather to con> 
Urm than remove the error of some of those 
io whom it was addressed. He distributed 



31 

his book gratuitously^ particularly amoui^ 
those who were about to succeed the genera- 
tion which was tiien passing away; and 
there can be no doubt that his conscientious 
efforts made a deep and useful impression 
upon most persons who perused what he had 
written, with the attention which it certainly 
merited. On the last page of this curious 
production, Lay giv es the following critic on 
his own labours ; and the candour, simplicity, 
and humility with which it is clothed, fur- 
nish conclusive evidence of the sincerity and 
urbanity of his character. 



'* Courteous and Fviemlly Reader ^ 

^^ There are some passages in my book, 
•^ that are not so well placed as could have 
*^ been wished; some errors may have escaped 
" the press, the printer being much encumb- 
•^ ered with other concerns : thou art lovingly 
•*' entreated to excuse, amend, or censure ife as 
^^ thee please : but remember that it was writ- 
•^ ten by one that was a poor common sailor^, 
*• and an illiterate man.—B. L/' 



32 

Not long before he removed from his cave^ 
curiosity, associated with respect for him, in- 
duced Grovernor Penn,* Dr. Franklin, and 
some other gentlemen to make a visit to 
Lay — he received them in his primitive 
abode with his usual politeness ; after some 
interesting conversation, the table was spread 
for dinner, and plentifully covered with ve- 
getables and fruit, of which he thus invited 
them to partake — " This is not the kind of 
fare yon have at home^ hut it is good enough 
for you or me — and such as it is^ you are 
welcome to eat of iiJ^ 

Having passed the sixty-third year of his 
age, he began to feel some of the infirmities 
incident to the decline of life, which, con- 
nected with the incessant application of his 
time to his favourite subject, and the desire 
that his wife, to whom he was most tender- 
ly attached,! might be relieved from tlie do- 

* Richard Penn, Esq. 

t Sarah Lay was an intelligent and pious woman, 
an approved minister of the gospel in the Society of 



^33 

mestic cares whicli she bad been long eu- 
gaged with, inHuenced him to leave the maii- 
siou they had lived in for more than nine 
years^ and remove a few miles, to the farm of 
John Phipps, near Abington meeting house, 
in whose family they boarded. Soon after 
this change of residence, the interesting and 
endeared connection which had subsisted 
between this affectionate pair, through the 
many vicissitudes of their lives, was dissolved 
by the death of his wife. This event, which 
involved him in great affliction, was rendered 
more acute by the circumstance that he had 
no children, or other relative, to participate in 
his sorrow — to share his loss— -to yield the 
sympathy which such privation demanded — - 
or afford the consolation and aid that a be- 
reavement so severe required. 

Friends: she cordiaily united with her husband, in 
his disapprobation of slavery, and contributed all in 
her power to the support of his mind under the trials 
which it suffered, in his exertions to prompte a change 
in the public sentiment, respecting the inhumanity 
and injustice of the custom. 



3^ 

The deprivation he had suffered, and 
his advanced age might be supposed saf- 
eient to have abated the ardour of his mind, 
and disqualified him for active exertion. 
Bat Lay was no ordinary man. He rose 
superior to the influence of sucii causes and 
resumed his labours of benevolence with 
augmented assiduity. He continued to pub- 
lish and circulate essays on the subject of 
slavery, and sought for occasions, both pub- 
licly and privately, to speak of its injustice. 
For this purpose he attended all places of 
public worship, without reg^ard to the reli- 
gious professions of their congregations. Oe 
one occasion, he walked into the Oxford 
church, with a mantle of sack-cloth wrapped ' 
round him, and stood attentively listening to 
the sermon which was preaching. When the 
services of the morning were over, Lay thus 
began an address to the congregation. " Ido 
" not ajpijrove of all the minister has said^ hut 
'' Idid not come here to find fault with the 
" irreaching; Icame to cry aloud against your 
" liraclice of slave -holding.'^ In all the places 
of worship which he thus visited, he used 



35 

the same freedom ; and Lis addresses were 
sometimes so long and vehement as to re- 
quire his removal from the house; an act to 
which he always submitted without opposi- 
tion. 

Persons, who were not acquainted with 
him, often deceived themselves by supposing 
him to be destitute of common understand- 
ing. In company he w^ould often make ob- 
servations and remarks, calculated to provoke 
argument, w ith a view to fathom the minds 
of those with whom he conversed; and the 
estimate of their characters was formed with 
astonishing facility and correctness. His re- 
plies were always pointed, and strictly 
adapted to the nature of the questions pro^ 
posed ; for he instantly discovered whether 
an inquiry was made with a desire to obtain 
information, or suggested to gratify mere cu- 
riosity, and produce ridicule. He was also 
scrupulously careful to respect the truth, in 
all his conversation, and would rebuke those 
who in the least degree departed from it, by 
the use of words and phrases, compliraenta- 



M 

ry or oilierwise, which did not proceed from 
the heart. As he was once walking from 
his home to Philadelphia, he was met by se- 
veral persons on horseback^ who unwisely 
expected he would afford them diversion. 
One of the party stopped him with this salu- 
tation — " Sir, your humble servanf^ — Lay 
looked upon the stranger^ and said^ ^^ If thou 
art my humble servant, clean my shoesJ' 
Not sufficiently ascertained of his character, 
by that remark^ they tauntingly inquired of 
him which was the direct route to heaven? 
Lay promptly replied — ''Bo justly, love 
mercy, and tvalk humbly with your GodJ' 
They were then satisfied without further in- 
terrogation^ and left him, evidently mortified 
at their impotent efforts to produce idle mer- 
riment, by insult upon real virtue. 

He always travelled on foot, and made 
ftequent visits in the neighbourhood, as well 
as at a considerable distance from home; 
having once v/alked to Philadelphia, with an 
intention of conversing with an individual of 
considerable note, he found the family, on 



^7 

ills arrival, silling at^breakfast; Lay entered 
the room, and was invited to partake witii 
them, but seeing a black servant in atten- 
dance, he inquired of his master ^^ Is tJiis 
man a slave? being answered aiiirmativelj, 
he said, ■'then I itnll not share imth thee the 
fruits of thy unrighteousness ^"^^ and imme- 
diately departed from the house. He never 
owned a slave himself, neither would he sit 
with, nor partake of the food of any one who 
kept them. Notwithstanding the popular 
antipathy against Lay, he enjoyed the friend- 
ship and society of some of the most pious 
and learned men, who at tliat time adorned 
the province of Pennsylvania. The most 
cordial atlachment subsisted between him 
and the truly honourable Anthony Benezet. 
He maintained through life, an uninterrupted 
intercourse with Dr. Franklin^ Dr. Be Bea- 
neville, and many other distinguished cha- 
racters. He was also intimately acquainted 
with Ralph Sandiford, who, like himself, 
was an ardent opposer of slavery, and v^rote 
upon the subject. 

K ■ •■ . 



38 

Benjamin Lay's mind was not exclusively 
directed to the subject of the trade in human 
flesh, and the shocking train of evils by which 
it was attended ; it observed, and investigated 
other objects connected with the interests of 
civil society and the welfare of man. His at- 
tention was directed to a consideration of the 
nature and propriety of the then existing 
punishments, for offences against the crimi- 
nal laws. The ideas which, within thirty 
years, have so extensively prevailed on this 
subject, and which have led to the meliora- 
tion of the penal code of Pennsylvania, (a 
code which is now admired and imitated by 
some of our sister states,* and the adoption 
of whose principles is about to be attempted 
by European nations,)! were suggested by 

* Since the establishment of the Penitentiary sys- 
tem in Pennsylvania, there have been institutions of 
like character founded in New Hampshire, Ver- 
mont, New York, Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia, 
Ohio, New Jersey, and Kentucky. 

t Sir S. Romily continues indefatigable in his ex- 
ertions, as a member of the British parliament, to con- 
vince the lawpjivers of England tliat a criminal code. 



39 

Lay, as long since as the year 17^7^ — at that 
time he thus notices the suhjeet: ^' As to cri- 
•• minals, they had hetter be kept in bondage, 
^' that by hard labour they might be brought to 
•• repentance and amendment of life, in order 
^' to a happy death, rather than to put them 
•"' to death in their sins; for in the grave there 

icss sanguinary and cruel than that which now exists 
in that country, v/ould promote the best interests of 
the realm ; whilst a considerable number of distin- 
guished men, in London, have formed themselves into 
an association in aid of the great work of reformation 
and mercy. That society, in an account of its ori- 
gin, Sec. not long since published, candidly acknow- 
ledges itself indebted to the '^ Fhiladtlfihia Society for 
alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons-,'^ for its ex- 
istence. Some information respecting the successful 
exertions of the Philadelphia society, in producing a 
change in the penal laws of Pennsylvania, was printed 
many years ago, a copy of which being sent to Lon- 
don, it accidentally fell into the hands of a gentleman, 
whose benevolent mind had been for some time en- 
gaged in reflection on the subject of their criminal 
punishments; the encouragement it afforded induced 
him to communicate his views to a few of his friends, 
who immediately formed an association for similar^ 
purposes. 



40 

•" is no repentance. Hard labour and mean liv- 
"ing is an antidote to luxury and idleness, and 
'^ captivity the reverse of nature, might prevent 
"a great deal of wickedness in the world, and 
'^ bring many unthinking creatures to remem- 
'^' ber and prepare for their latter end^ before 
*^^ it is to late, which I should rejoice to see. '^ 
This judicious, enlightened, and truly chris- 
tian sentiment, is of itself an imperishable 
evidence of the profound conceptions of his 
understanding, and alone sufficient, if there 
were no other proof of his desire to promote 
the happiness of his fellow creatures, to en- 
title him to the respect and gratitude of man- 
kinii. 

With the same enlightened zeal, he point- 
ed out the pernicious consequences which 
would result from the introduction of foreign 
spirits into this country. He declared that 
the general use of them would corrupt and 
degrade any people, and that there was dan- 
ger, if they could be easily and cheaply pro. 
cured, of their becoming the habitual beverage 
of the inhabitants. He introduces the subject, 



41 

in consiclering the trade which at that day was 
extensively carried on with the West Indies; 
and says, ^^We send away our excellent 
^^ provisions and other good things, to pur- 
" chase such filthy stuff, which tends to the 
" corruption of mankind, and they send us 
'' some of their worst slaves, when they can- 
^* not rule them themselves, along with their 
"rum to complete the tragedy; that is to 
'* say, to destroy the people in Pennsylva- 
^* nia, and ruin the country.'^ 

In fulfilling the purposes of his universal 
philanthropy, he devoted a portion of his 
time to visiting schools, and embraced every 
proper opportunity of impressing the sus- 
ceptible minds of children with a just and 
reverent sense of their duties toward God- 
enforcing the importance of early establish- 
ing themselves in habits of order, sobriety, 
and frugality— inculcating the principles of 
humanity by simple illustrations, and reeom- 
mending it to them to be governed through 
life by the precepts, and to follow the meek 
and humble example of our holy Redeemer, 



"43 

The following feeliog observation is from the 
pen of an ancient and worthy gentleman^ 
who in his early youth was a member of one 
of the schools that Lay frequented; '^ When 
the children were reading in the Bible, he 
would stop them and explain particular pas- 
sages for their improvement, and although 
we at that time thought too lightly of Beuja- 
min's anxiety for our welfare, yet some of 
Ms labours and admonitions are remember- 
ed (by one at least of the scholars,) at the 
present day, though his advice was impart- 
ed more than sixty years ago.'' 

Lay had no compassion for vagrant mendi- 
cants; he used frequently to assert thai ^^any 
*^ one who is able to go abroad and beg, can 
'' earn four-pence a day, and that is enough to 
*'^ keep a person above want or dependence in 
"this country.'' He was nevertheless chari- 
table toward those who by disease, or mis- 
fortune, w^ere reduced to necessitous circum- 
stances, and among the numerous instances of 
his judicious dispensation of money, the fol- 
lowing is worthy of notice. He understood 



is 

that a poor woman in the neighbourhood, 
was in need of relief, and to ascertain the 
fact, called upon a respectable person whom 
he supposed to be acquainted with the par- 
ticulars of her situation. Having thus satis- 
fied himself of the truth of the case, he pre- 
sented to the person on whom he had called 
several silver pieces — saying, '' lay this out 
for her, hut dont let it be known where it 
came fromJ^^ 

His fondness for frequent retirement and 
meditation, continued throughout his life: 
and for the more complete indulgence and 
enjoyment of this rational habit, he select- 
ed an interesting spot, on the farm of the 
person with whom he resided, and improved 
a natural excavation in the earth, near a fine 
spring of water, so as to afford himself a 
commodious apartment. The interior part 
of the roof of his cave was neatly ornament- 
ed with festoons of evergreen, and in other 
respects, the room was conveniently fiiii^ii 
for his purpose. Here was kept his library 
of books, which amounted to nearly two hun- 



44 

dred volumes^ comprising some of the works 
of the best authors in theology^ biography, 
poetry, and history. In that seclusion he 
reflected, read, and wrote. 

After Lay's death the principal part of 
his manuscripts were preserved by the gen- 
tleman with whom he lived, but it is sincere- 
ly to be lamented that those relics fell into 
the hands of the British, during the revolu- 
tionary war, who, it is supposed, destroyed 
them. His books were disposed of at the 
sale of his effects. Two of these volumes 
have, after considerable search, been lately 
discovered. They contain numerous margi- 
nal annotations, from which, for want of bet- 
ter sources whence to derive a knowledge of 
the reflections of this christian philosopher, a 
few of his most interesting remarks are se- 
lected. 

In a folio edition of ^'PlutarcWs Lives/^ 
London, 1608, are the following notes. — In 
the account of the Lacedemonian songs and 



45 

(lances the following couplet^ sung by iLe 
old men, is quoted — 

"We have been young and strong, yel valiant 

heretofore, 
" Till crooked age did hold us back, and bade us d^> 

no more." 

Lay subjoins— 

*' But virtue in our breasts is in her prime, 
" Which cannot wear away with age or time.*' 

He thus notices the corruption of Sparia 
in the reign of King Agis — 

" Money— the love of money, — the destruction of 
" nations — the fountain of evil." 

On the conduct of Numa Pompilius, when 
he refused the kingdom. Lay notes — 

" O ! wise Numa — famous virtue." 

Of the measures adopted by Lycurgus for 
preventing the introduction of foreign wares 



40 

and merchandize, deeming them injurious to 
the Lacedamonians- — Lay notes — 

"I admire the wisdom of this man." 

In an old edition of Edmundson^s Jour- 
nal, at the conclusion of one of the chap- 
ters in which that autlior admonishes his 
readers against the love of riches^ Lay 
notes — 

"Mammon — cursed love of mammon — mammon 
surfeits and corrupts the mind, and darkens the under- 
standing — Oh the blessed doctrine and practice of the 
first christians, which kept out luxury, pride, and 
cursed covetousness." 

In another part of the same work^ he re- 
marks; with appropriate allusion to the sub- 
ject^ 

" A selfish spirit, is satan*s spirit." 

And equally applicable is his annotation on 
another of the chapters^ 

" A few things will serve a right mind, for the 
world's glory hath destroyed many." 



47 

His precepts were generally sound^ and 
uniformly supported by the weighty sanction 
of practice. Whatever he conceived to be 
his duty, that he performed at every hazard. 
He persuaded, admonished^ and threatened^ 
without fear or flattery. 

One of the most extraordinary acts of his 
life, was the attempt he made, in imitation 
of the Saviour of mankind, to fast for the 
term of forty days. Perhaps no christian 
professor, except himself, ever conceived the 
fast of our Saviour to be intended as an ex- 
ample for mankind. We must not, how- 
ever, rashly condemn the conduct of Lay. 
He certainly acted from a sense of duty; and 
the voluntary penance to which he subject- 
ed himself, is at least a proof of resolute 
self-denial, and of the power of the human 
system to sustain itself under a deprivation 
of its accustomed subsistence. He persisted 
in his fast for three weeks. For several days 
after he had commenced it, he continued to 
pursue his common occupations. He rose at 
his usual time, which was always at the 



48 

dawn of day, took his usual exercise, and 
made his usual excursions in the neighbour- 
hood. One morning he even walked to Phi- 
ladelphia, to have an interview with Dr. 
Franklin, who has often been heard to re- 
mark that on that occasion Lay's breath was 
so acrid as to produce a suffusion of w ater 
in his eyes, which was extremely painful. 
The following memorandum will show what 
were Lay's feelings at the time it was made: 
"%^t]i, of i2th, mo. 1737-8, this being the 
ninth day of my fasting, having taken no- 
thing but spring water several times a day, 
and am as icell in health, as ever, since I 
came to Pennsylvania, '^^ Soon after this his 
strength began to yield. He w^as at length 
unable to leave his chamber, and finally, was 
confined to his bed. When he could no 
longer help himself, he directed a large loaf 
of bread to be placed on a table near to him, 
and upon this he kept his eyes steadily fixed. 
He conversed very little, but he often ad- 
dressed himself in these words : " Benja- 
min thou seest it, but thou shalt not eat itJ^ 



49 

Vain were the solicitations of his friends 
to induce him to abandon his purpose; his 
mind was immoveable, notwithstanding all 
their representations, that if he persisted much 
longer, he would certainly perish. With the 
rapid sinking of his system, his mental fa- 
culties began to fail. As soon as this was 
perceived by those around him, they admi- 
nistered suitable diet, and thus he was gra- 
dually restored. 

During the last one or two years of the 
close of his life, the infirmities of age dis- 
qualified him for much exertion, either of 
body or mind. He remained principally at 
home, employed in spinning and other do- 
mestic occupations. Honey was one of the 
few articles of his food, and he amused him- 
self with constructing hives for the accom- 
modation of his bees, and observing their 
curious labour. By his friendly care to those 
industrious insects, and by abstaining from 
the cruel practice of destroying them in or- 
der to procure their honey, he increased 
his original family to a large community, 



5G 

whose dwellings extended more than a hun- 
dred feet in a continued line. 

To a person who went to see him in tlie 
last year of his life, he offered to secure one 
hundred pounds, if he would engage, after 
liis death, to hurn his body, and throw the 
ashes into the sea. He assigned no reason 
for the wish which dictated this singular 
proposition, and the individual to whom tiie 
application was made declining the office, he 
never after mentioned it. Whether he was 
led to make this request from his admiration 
of the character of Lycurgus, who had ex- 
pressed a similar desire as to the disposal of 
his body after death, is not known; though 
the idea probably originated in that source. 

Not long before his death, a friend of 
Lay's made him a visit for the purpose of 
acquainting him that the religious society of 
friends, had come to the determination to 
disown such of their members as could not 
be persuaded to desist from the practice of 
holding slaves, or were concerned in the im^ 



51 

portation of them. The venerable and con- 
stant friend and advocate of that oppressed 
race of men^ attentively listened to this 
heart-cheering intelligence, and after a few 
moments reflection on what he had heard, 
lie rose from his chair, and in an attitude 
of devotional reverence, poured forth this 
pious ejaculation : " Thanksgiving and 
^^jjraise he rendered unto the Lord GodJ^ 
After a short pause, he added^ — '^ I can miv 
^^ die in jpeace,'^ 

Thus were his feelings sublimed by the 
solemn conviction of the controling influence 
of the Deity. To him he considered the ac- 
knowledgmentdue, for this change in the con- 
duct of Friends, and to him was it fervently 
offered. At this interesing period, Lay^s 
mind also appears to have conceived the pro- 
phetic and joyful anticipation, that as he 
had lived to witness an event which he so 
ardently desired, and so faithfully laboured 
to promote, he would now be permitted to 
close in tranquillity his career on earth. This 
expectation was soon realised; for a short 



52 

time afte!> being absent from liome^ he was 
suddenly taken ill. In consequence of this 
event, several of his neighbours met for the 
purpose of devising what could best be done 
for him in his actual situation. Among 
these was his friend Joshua Morris^ whom 
Lay observing, several times requested that 
he might be taken to his house. He was at 
length conveyed thither. The continued vio- 
lence of his disease convinced those around 
liim that it would terminate his life, and Lay 
himself was fully sensible of his danger. 
He therefore directed his attention to some 
necessary arrangements with regard to his 
worldly aifairs, and by a verbal will, gave 
to the Society of Friends at Abington, the 
sum of forty pounds, to be appropriated to 
the education of the poor children of that 
meeting. About two weeks after his attack, 
lie peacefully surrended his life to him who 
gave it, on the 3d. of the Sd. month (Feb.) 
1759, Anno jEtatis 8S. During 41 years, 
S8 of which were passed in Pennsylvania, 
he had continued his zealous testimony 
against African slavery. 



53 

His remains were interred in Friend's bit- 
rial ground at Abington; and tile inventory 
of his effects^ taken after his decease, exhi- 
bited his estate to be worth five hundred and 
eighteen pounds, twelve shillings and nine 
pence, all of which was personal property. 

The most delicate and diflScult part of the 
office voluntarily undertaken by his biogra- 
pher, is to form an impartial and generous 
estimate of the character of Benjamin Lay. 

A respectful consideration for the opinions 
of those whose eye may trace the story of 
his life, as here delineated, it might be sup- 
posed, would teach the propriety of le'aving 
this duty to be performed by the unbiassed 
exercise of every reader's judgment. This 
right the author feels no desire to infringe ; 
and he is fully convinced of his utter inabi- 
lity to control the decision of others, by the 
conclusion he forms; though, he confesses^ 
he would be happy to make on the mind of 
every individual, a favourable impression 
concerning the merits of Lay, 



54 . 

He was certainly a man eminently endow- 
ed with strong natural abilities; but his intel- 
lectual powers were not expanded by an edu- 
cation founded upon the basis of sound and li- 
beral learning, nor was his mind polished and 
refined by the embellishments of ornamental 
literature. His knowledge of mankind was 
extensive, but to the polite accomplishments 
of the world, he paid little regard. It is 
not therefore surprizing, that in the sup- 
port of his favourite opinions, he was obsti- 
nate to excess, and toward those who op- 
posed him, ungracious to a proverb. His 
temper was violent, but it was always ex- 
cited for mercy^s sake, and in behalf of those 
who dared not assert their own rights. His 
eccentricity was remarkable, but, in the 
main, it subserved the purposes of utility. 
His habits, though singular, were in many 
respects worthy of imitation. Some will al- 
lege, and none can doubt, that he occasional- 
ly manifested symptoms of derangement; yet 
all must acknowledge that " ojjpression ivill 
<^^ make a wise man mad.^^ That he was pious 
and benevolent; most will admit. That he was 



55 

lUsinterested and generous^ few can deny. 
That his opinions were correct, concerning 
the great work of reformation of which he 
was one of the founders, we have the almost 
universal consent of mankind, in the honour- 
able verdict which civilized nations have 
pronounced upon the question. 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



RALPH SANDIFORD. 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



RALPH SANDIFORD 



Ralph SANDIFORD was bom in the 
town of Liverpool, England^ Anno Domini 
1693. What was the nature or extent of 
the education which he received cannot now 
be ascertained. His parents were members 
of the Episcopal churchy and piously in- 
structed him in the principles of that denomi- 
nation of christians. It appears, however^ 
that he subsequently adopted the profession 
of the religious Society of Friend s^, and at 
an early period of his life, was received into 
membership among that people. He came 
to Pennsylvania when a youth, and resided 
in Philadelphia. His attention was at this 



60 

time directed to commerce, in the prosecu- 
tion of which he visited many of the West 
India Islands, and several of the provinces 
on the American continent. The humane 
heart of Sandiford soon became impressed 
with feelings of compassion towards that 
race of his fellow creatures, whom he had 
an opportunity of beholding not only sub- 
jected to unnatural bondage, but the unof- 
fending victims ol the most wanton and cruel 
personal injury. In addition to its effect in 
exciting the benevolent feelings of his na- 
ture, the sight of so much human misery, 
led him seriously to inquire into the relative 
duties and obligations of man, as they are 
enjoined by religion and reason. The result 
of his inquiry was delivered in the follow- 
ing sound opinion: '' Tlie holding of negroes 
"in slavery is inconsistent with the rights of 
" man^ and contrary to the precepts of the Au-_ 
" thor of Christianity.^^ With this doctrine 
lie began his career in the work of reforma- 
tion, and in this conviction he closed his be- 
nevolent labours, and with them, his earthly 
pilgrimage. 



61 

There aie few incidents in the life of Sau- 
difoid which it has been in the power of his 
biographer to detail ; and what he has been 
able to collect concerning the character and 
pursuits of this excellent man, relates chiefly 
to the part which he took in the great ques» 
tion of African emancipation. 

There are, however, some circumstances, 
which, before entering on the brief view, 
which is all that can be promised even of the 
most important feature of his history, it may 
be proper at this time to relate. 

During the period that he was engaged in 
the trading voyages before noticed, he was 
often subjected to extreme suffering, and im- 
minent peril. At one time, he was robbed by 
pirates, and escaped but with his life. On 
another occasion, the vessel on board which 
he was sailing, foundered in a storm. Him- 
self, and the ship's company, embarked in 
the long boat, and were eight days tossed on 
the ocean without food ; they succeeded how- 
ever, in making the land to the southward of 



6^ 

tlie gulf of Florida^ and their lives were thus 
saved. But his sufferings did not here ter- 
minate. Having embarked for New York^ 
lie was again wrecked, and, at great hazard, 
reached one of the Bahama Islands. Here 
he continued several months, and at last found 
an opportunity of being conveyed to Charles- 
ton, South Carolina. Thus reduced to po- 
%'erty, a '^ stranger in a strange land/^ ex- 
pecting to subsist on the bounty of the chari- 
table, at least for a short time, he was un- 
expectedly introduced to a person of great 
wealth and influence in that city, who pro- 
posed to engage his services in a commercial 
enterprise which he had projected, and which 
would have realized to Sandiford a large sum 
of money. The following notice of that offer, 
and the reasons why Sandiford refused it, are 
given in his own words. 

'^ I had, while in South Carolina, a ser- 
^^ vice presented by one esteemed the richest 
^^in the province, who would have bestowed 
^^ large gifts on me, which engaged me to ac- 
•^ knowledge his affection, and the openness 



63 

•* of his heart, yet I could not partake of his 
'' proffers, his riches proceeding from slaves, 
••lest 1 should have lessened my future hap- 
•* piness, which I had an eye to in the faith, 
*' and now in measure w itness the end of it, 
"^ which otherwise w^ould have brought me 
'' into bondage, and made me a debtor and 
"•' an oppressor in the creation, which was so 
•^ ^ contrary to me that nature groaned under 
•^ the sight and sense I had of it, which has- 
•^ tened me to Pennsylvania, where the Lord 
*• raised me again to substance, which was 
•' consumed by a fire, w here I wonderfully 
^^ escaped the lot of those that were burnt, in 
•< all which I saw the hand of the Lord, who 
*' has again raised me to fulness and plenty, 
•• which I now mention to commemorate his 
•^ providence/' 

From the time of his first arrival in Penn- 
sylvania, until the year 17^9, he was zealous- 
ly engaged, through all the vicissitudes of his 
fortune, in promulgating his opinions on the 
isubject of slavery. This he did by a strong 
exposition of his sentiments, when he sup- 



64 

posed thev might have the least influence on 
the minds of those whom he met; — and so 
deeply was his mind engaged with this im- 
portant concern, that he sought opportunities 
of provoking discussion respecting it wher- 
ever he went. 

In the thirty-sixth year of his age^ he re- 
solved to publisli a work, for the promotion 
of his favourite object. It was entitled — The 
Mystery of Iniquity, in a brief examination 
of the Practice of the Times. When his book 
came out, a copy of it reached the hand of 
the chief justice of the province, who threat- 
ened him with severe penalties, if he permit- 
ted it to be circulated. Disregarding all con- 
sequences, Sandiford distributed it gratui- 
tously, wherever he believed it would be of 
use. He v/as not only opposed by the high 
authority just mentioned, but by every one 
w^hose interest was assailed, or whose unjus- 
tifiable practices were exposed, in the cor- 
rect, though affecting jpicture, which he gave 
of slavery. 



65 

This production was an efficient auxiliary 
in advancing the author's opinion. It was 
replete with sentiments the most sound^ and 
facts in the highest degree imposing, whilst 
the judicious selections which it contained, 
from various authors, in support of his phi- 
lanthropic doctrines, showed the extent of 
his research, and the depth of his reflection. 
The style of his work was plain, hut ener- 
getic ; it exhibited a mind at once fortified by 
manly firmness, and influenced by christian 
solicitude and benevolence. He concluded 
his book, in this solemn and affecting man- 
ner: 

" Let such behold, and see, if there is any 
*'*' sorrow to be compared to it; which God is 
•^ my witness I would rather have chosen to 
'^ have bewailed in the wilderness, were it 
^^ his will, than thus have appeared against a 
^^ crime so much in request ; which promotes 
"idleness and haughtiness in the rich, and 
"hinders the poor from bread; which bring 
" evils in the commonwealth, engaged me for 
" the welfare of all, to give forth this test!- 
G 2 



66 

^' monyj that if possible I may be clear of it^ 
^^ and you^ before my great Creator^ and as you 
'* will answer it, before his tribunal^ let it go 
^' forth as you may see its service in righteous^ 
^^ ness ; without striking at any creature, but 
" at the evil in all, that the cause may be re- 
^^ moved, and that the creation may be go- 
" verned by love ; and this practice disowned 
^' in all mankind, and especially by all that 
'' name the name of Jesus, ihat every crea- 
^^ture under the whole heavens may be deli- 
^' vered from oppression, as well as, 

Ralph Sandiford/^ 

- For nearly two years after the publica« 
tion of his address, he was incessantly occu- 
pied in combating the objections which were 
raised against the arguments it contained. 
His bodily health at length became impaired, 
and his mental energies were almost pros= 
trated beneath the hostility which' was 
waged against him, in consequence of the 
decisive stand he had taken against slavery. 
He therefore determined to retire from the 
dty of Philadelphia. 



67 

In the year 1731, he purchased a small 
farm/ situated about nine miles, in a north- 
easterly direction, from Philadelphia, upon 
the side of the road leading from that place 
to the village of Bustleton. Here he had a 
log house erected, and otherwise improved 
his little property; and upon this spot he 
lived in patriarchal simplicity, during the re 
mainder of his innocent and useful life. 

Ralph Sandiford was small in stature; his 
physiognomy is represented to have been 
characteristic of his mind, strongly marked 
with intelligence and benignity. He was con- 
scientiously opposed to those habits of luxury 
which^ even in the early times in which he 
lived, had begun to be indulged in Pennsyl- 
vania. His clothing was made in the most 
simple manner, and was of the natural co- 
lour of the material of which it was com- 
posed. He was hospitable, and entertained 
those who visited him with all the liberality 
that was consistent with his primitive mode 
of living. He was kind and charitable to 
the poor, and assisted them, when opportu^ 



68 

liUies presented, with his advice as well as 
from his purse. Though he had many ene- 
mies in consequence of his opposition to slave- 
keeping, yet it was universally acknowledg- 
ed that he was an upright and honest man. 

The disease which had begun its operation 
upon his system, previously to his retirement 
to the country, so far from being subdued, as 
was expected, by change of situation, gra- 
dually increased, and ultimately confined him 
to his bed, toward the close of the year 1732. 
Perceiving that there was no prospect of his 
recovery, he calmly waited the awful mo- 
ment v» hich would forever terminate his sor- 
rows and his suiTerings. 

Being possessed of considerable property, 
and having no wife or children on whom it 
might devolve, he made a particular disposi- 
tion of it hy a will, which was executed on 
the 7th. day of the 3d. month (March) 1733. 



In order to show what were the feelings of 
Sandifoi'd at this interesting crisis, some_ 



69 

extracts from that instrument are here in- 
serted. 

*^Be it remembered that I Ralph Sandi- 
•* ford, of Lower Dublin, in the County of 
•• Philadelphia, merchant, being sick in body, 
*^ but of sound mind and memory, (Praised 
"^be the Lord) do make this my last will and 
^' testament, in manner following : First, 1 
^' commit my soul into the hands of Almighty 
•^ God my maker, hoping through the merito- 
•^rious death, and passion of Jesus Christ, 
•^ my only Saviour and Redeemer, to be ever- 
*^ lastingly saved — Also I commit my body 
*^ to the earth, to be therein decently buried 
'' at the discretion of my executors, herein af- 
*^ter nominated. And as to what worldly 
'^ effects it hath pleased the Lord to bestow 
^^ upon me, (after my just debts and funeral 
'' expenses are truly paid and discharged) I 
" dispose thereof as followeth : 

" First, I give to the meeting of the men 
*'^and w^omen of the People called Quakers, 



" 70 

'^ at Philadelphia^ each ten pounds for the 
'^ use of the poor. I also give to the Church 
^' of England, for the use of the poor, ten 
"^pounds. I also give to Joseph Chettam 
** and his sister Hannah, each a guinea — also 
^' I give to Samuel Harrison of New York, 
" two guineas. I give my brother James San- 
"'^diford my watch — ^I also give Phoebe 
^' Boyles, SewelFs History. ^^ He then pro- 
ceeds, and gives to Mary Peace, his house^ 
keeper, a life estate in the farm, &c. &c. on 
which lie lived, and to Susanna Morris, his 
servant, a life estate in another plantation 
which he owned in Cheltenham; and at their 
death directs all his landed estate to be sold, 
and the proceeds remitted to his sisters, or 
their legal representatives, in England, to be 
equally divided among them. 

He did not long survive this last impor- 
tant act of his life. — He died on the %^i\\. 
of the 3d. month, (March) Anno Domini 1733. 
at the age of forty years. 



71 

His body was buried in a field, on his own 
farm/* near the house where his terrestrial 
existence was peacefully terminated. 

The executors of his will had the grave 
enclosed with a balustrade fence, and caused 
a stone t to be placed at the head of it, thus 
inscribed — 

^•^ In Memory of 

^^ Ralph Saxdiford 

•^ Son of John Sandiford 

'' of Liverpool, he Bore 

•"' A Testimony against the 

" Negro Trade & Eyed 

"^ y^ SSth. of y^ 3d. Month 

^» 1733. Aged 40 years. 

* This farm is now occupied by S. Griffiths. Part 
of it is within the precincts of a Hamlet, and some of 
the proprietors of land there, have proposed designat- 
ing it by the name of Sandiford. To do so, would 
certainly be highly creditable to the feelings of those 
who should thus manifest their respect for the memo- 
ry of an individual so worthy as Ralph Sandiford. 

t The author copied the epitaph from the stone, 
which was found broken in two pieces, laying; near a 



7^ 

Near the place where the body of Sandi-^ 
ford was interred^ the remains of his house- 
keeper and servant, also mingle with their 
parent dust. For many years after their 
death, care was taken to preserve all the 
graves from violation. The property, how- 
ever, passing into the ownership of persons 
who entertained less respect for the original 
proprietor than for the soil which covered his 
ashes, the fence was removed, and the ground 
which it had enclosed, was occupied for the 
purposes of agriculture. 

During a visit which was made, some time 
since, io the person who resides on the farm, 
in order to collect what information could be 
there procured concerning Sandiford, the spot 
where he was buried was pointed out^ and it 
was then suggested, that a tree should be plant- 
ed, in order to designate the place. If that be 
done, it will in some measure correspond with 
the intentions of many respectable inhabitants 
of the neighbourhood, who, appreciating the 

fence, not far from the place where it was originally 
erected. 



73 

services of Saiidiford in the cause of huma- 
nity, several years ago interested themselves 
in collecting suhscriptions, to be applied to 
the erection of a wall around his grave. It 
is to be regretted that a design so honoura- 
ble to the feelings of those who intended 
thus to pay a well -deserved tribute of re- 
spect to the memory of that excellent man, 
should have been abandoned, because they 
did not all agree in the precise mode of exe- 
cuting the work. 

But whether neglect or veneration be the 
lot of the mouldering frame of the pious and 
enlightened Sandiford, it is a precious con- 
solation to believe, that the great principles 
which he avowed and advocated, are rising 
into dominion among mankind in proportion 
to the rapidly diffusing light of Christianity, 
and promise, like the holy precepts of that 
religion, to be indestructible and eternaL 



FINIS. 




JUST TUBLISHED 
BY SOLOMOJV W. COJVMAD, 

AND FOR SALE AT HIS BOOKSTORE, 

JVo. 87, Market Street, 
A MANUAI. OF MINERALOGY, 



liY ARTHlTR AIKIN5 I 

Se retary to the Geological Society. | 

piacE gl.50. i 

S. W. CONRAD has also for sale a variety of valuable medicals j 

and other scientific books— among which are , i 

Dorsey's Surgery, 2 vols. 8vo. I 

Cooper's Dictionary of Practical Surgery, 2 vols. 8vo. j 

Bell's Operative Surgery, 2 vols. 8vo. | 

on the Venereal. | 

Hunter on the Venereal. , { 

— — — on the Blood, ? vols. 8vo. j 

Burn's on InCammation. I 
Bichat on W'-.e Membranes. 
Maclean on Hydrothorax. 
C I'visart on the Diseases of the Heart, kc, 
Le Gallon's on the Principal of Life, &c. 
Thatcher's Dispensatory, second edition. 
Tho'Tias's Practice, third edition. 

Rush's Works, 2 vols. 8vo.— A new editio. 3 

Wilson on Febrile Diseases, 2 vols. 8vo. 3 

Accum's Chemistry, 2vols. 8vo. — A ne •edition. | 

Hcni-y's Chemistry, 2 vols. 8vo. ^ | 

Thompson's Chemistry, 5 vols. 8vo. last edition. S 

Wernei*'s External Characters of Minerals. j 

Bruce's Minerajogical Journal. S 

Allan's MineraFogical Synonyraes. 5 

Lee's Botany, with coloured plates. S 

Muhlenberg's Catalogue of the Plants of North America. I 

Bigelov/'s Plants of Boston. ; 

Synopsis of the Genera of American Plants. t 
Vince and Wood's Complete Course of Mathematics, &c. &c. • 



