REPORT 



OF THE 



CASE OF CHARLES BROWN, 

tf FUGITIVE SXiJMVtE, 

OWING LABOUR AND SERVICE TO 

WM. 0. DRURIT, 

OF WASHINGTON COUNTY, MARYLAND. 



DECIDED BY THE RECORDER OF PITTSBURGH, 
FEBRUARY 7th, 1835. 



PITTSBURGH* 

I'HINTED BY ALEXANDER JAYNES, lEVVIPf's ROW, MARKET ST. 

1835. 



f>et>.75ESM 



NOTE BY THE REPORTER. 



Several of the Gentlemen of the Pittsburgh Bar having requested 
the publication of the case of Charles Brown, an alledged " fugi- 
tive" from the State of Maryland, "owing labour and service" to 
William C. Drury, of Washington County, Maryland, I have 
complied with their request — desiring it, however, to be understood 
that the Arguments of Counsel are greatly condensed, the substance 
only being given. Originally, the Notes were taken by the Recorder, 
for his own use, without any view to publication — but brief as they 
necessarily are, they present as full a view of the case as is probably 
desirable for future reference. 

Feb. 11*7*, 1835. 



hi the Case of Charles Brown, an alledged Run- 
away Slave, the property of William C. Drury, 
Merchant, of Hagerstown, Washington County, 
Maryland. 



In this case the deft., Charles Brown, was apprehended by con- 
stables Reed and Dunshee, on a warrant issued by alderman D. S. 
Scully, Esq., on Saturday, 24th January, 1835, on the oath of Ed- 
ward Fitzpatrick, agent and attorney in fact of William C. Drury, 
and was brought before me, at the office of the said D. S. Scully, 
Esq., on the evening of the said 24th January, 1835, between the 
hours of 8 and 9 o'clock, P. M., and it appearing to my satisfaction 
that the said Charles Brown, not having counsel, and being otherwise 
unprepared for a hearing; and it being, in my opinion, too late an 
hour to enter upon the hearing of the case, I ordered and directed 
that the said Charles Brown should be committed to the common jail 
of said county, until Monday morning next, at 10 o'clock, A. M., for 
further hearing; and that in the meantime he should have full oppor- 
tunity of consulting counsel: and he was committed accordingly- 



Monday, January 26th, 1835, 10 o'clock, A. M. The case of 
Charles Bi'own, according to adjournment, was again brought before 
me for examination. Messrs. M 1 Candless and Hamilton appeared 
as counsel for Brown, and Messrs. Kingston and Dallas for the mas- 
ter, William C. Drury. Both parties requesting further time for 
preparation, by consent, I adjourned the further hearing of the case 
until to-morrow morning, at 10 o'clock, A. M., at the court house in 
the city of Pittsburgh; and the deft., Charles Brown, was accord- 
ingly further committed until that time. Each party to be entitled to 
subposnas for witnesses, in the usual form, upon proper application to 
me for that purpose. Edward Fitzpatrick to pay for the maintenance 
of Brown, in jail, at the usual rates allowed in such cases. 



Tuesday, January 27th, 1835, 10 o'clock, A. M. atthe court house, 
in Pittsburgh, Charles Brown was brought before me for further 
hearing — Messrs. M 'Candless and Hamilton for Brown, and Messrs. 
Kingston and Dallas for W. C. Drury, the alledged master. 

Edward Fitzpatrick, sworn on his voir dire, — says he is not in. 

1* 



any way interested in this case — that he is not to receive any thing 
from Mr. Drury, or any body else, for his services — not to receive 
any thing, in any way. Says he has known Wm. C. Drury and his 
family ever since the year 1818 — was once in partnership in mer- 
chandizing with Mr. Drury — no part of the slave labour went to- 
wards the establishment. He now resides in Pittsburgh. 

Sworn in chief. — In 1818 I lived with Wm. C. Drury, as a clerk, 
at Hagerstovvn, Maryland. In 1820 he discontinued business, and 
recommenced again in 1823, and in 1826 took me in partnership, in 
the store-keeping or mercantile business. The partnership was dis- 
solved in March, 1832. During this time I was frequently at his 
house in the country. I many times saw this black boy, Charles 
Brown, there. He was a servant about the house, and generally took 
my horse, and put him away. He was frequently at the store in Ha- 
gerstown. He acted as a servant. I know that he is a slave, and 
Mr. Drury said he had raised his mother. Tn 1818 he was a child 
of 2 or 3 years old — was then a small child, running about. I knew 
both his father and mother. He made his escape from Mr. Drury 
in June, 1832. About 5 weeks ago I first saw him in town — he ap- 
peared to recognize me. I then wrote to Mr. Drury, informing him 
of the circumstance, and received from him this power of attorney. 
This is the same boy described in the power of attorney — I have no 
doubt of it. When I first saw him, I looked earnestly at him; his 
whole conduct was such as to lead to suspicion — he looked back at 
me, and then ran away. He always called himself Charles Brown. 
I have no hesitation in saying that this is the same boy described in 
the power of attorney, and that he is a slave, the property of Wm. 
C. Drury, as I have before stated. 

Cross examined. — Do you know by what title Mr. Drury claims 
this boy as a slave? I know of no other title than that he was born 
and bred up in the family of Mr. Drury ever since he was a child, 
and that he was always considered as a slave there. When did you 
receive the power of attorney? [Mr. FitzpatricJc here produced a 
letter from Mr. Drury enclosing the power of attorney, dated 19th June, 
1832. It appears it was acknowledged in blank, was received by 
Mr. F. in blank, and the name "Edward FitzpatricJc," in the power 
of attorney, was inserted in that blank by himself. See the letter 
and power of attorney.] 

Michael P. FitzpatricJc, (son of Edward FitzpatricJc, aged 14 years 
next March,) sicorn. — Says that he knows Charles Brcwn, the black 
boy now here present — knew him at Hagerstown, Maryland, and at 
his master's house near thereto. Played with him often, as children, 
at his master's house. I don't know his age, but think that he is 3 
or 4 years older than me. I often saw his father and mother, and 
grandmother, at Mr. Drury's. I saw him first here about three weeks 
ago, in Alleghenytown. Cross examined. — I have no doubt of this 
being the same boy, Charles Brown, that I saw at Mr. Drury's. I 



have not seen Mr. Drury since we left Hagerstovvn, in October, 
1833. 

[The letter from Mr. Drury to Mr. Fitzpatrick, enclosing the power 
of attorney, was read in evidence, as was also the power itself. The 
letter was received by Mr. F. from Mr. D. by mail.] Excepted to by 
Mr. JSTCandless for Charles Brown, upon the ground of interest ap- 
parent, on the part of Fitzpatrick, who, as the agent of Drury, 
stands here precisely in the place of Drvry himself; and it is clear, 
if the master was here himself, he could not be heard. The power 
of attorney was executed in blank, three years ago, and that blank 
appears to have been recently filled up by Fitzpatrick, the witness 
himself, with his own name. Is such a power of attorney, even al- 
though on the face of it properly certified, a legal power, such as the 
law would require in a case like the present? Is it not the act of 
Fitzpatrick himself, constituting himself the agent of Drury — and 
not of Drury constituting Fitzpatrick as his agent? Can his testi- 
mony with regard to the ownership of the boy be received at all under 
such circumstances? This is to be considered, not as a case between 
master and servant, but as a quasi-criminal proceeding; and as the 
law is in favour of liberty, it must be strictly construed. 

The following are copies of the papers admitted in evidence on the 
hearing, and referred to by the witnesses, and by the counsel on both 
sides in arguing this case. 



Copy of the power of attorney from William C. Drury to Edward 
Fitzpatrick: 

" Know all men by these presents, that I, William C. Drury, of 
Washington county, and state of Maryland, have made, ordained, au- 
thorized, nominated, and appointed, and by these presents do make, 
ordain, authorize, nominate, constitute, and appoint Edward Fitzpa- 
trick ,* late of Washington county, and state aforesaid, my true and 
lawful attorney for me, and in my name, and for my own proper use 
and benefit, to demand, apprehend, recover, secure, and bring back 
my negro boy, slave for life, who ran away on Saturday night, the 
16th inst., about eighteen years of age, and calls himself Charles 
Brown, about five feet nine or ten inches high, of a dark complexion, 
well made, and a good countenance; and to use all legal means for 
the apprehension and recovery of said slave, and to do all other lawful 
acts and things whatsoever concerning the premises, as fully and in 
every respect as I myself might or could do, were I personally pre- 



*This power was sent in blank, and the name of Edward Fitzpatrick was filled 
up by himself, after he received it through the medium of the post office, enclosed 
in a letter from Mr. Drury, dated Willhmsport, 19th January, 1835. 



sent. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal this 
19th day of June, 1832. 

W. C. DRURY, [seal."] 
Witness, 
Jko. McIlhenny. 



Maryland, Washington County, ss. 
On this 19th day of June, 1832, personally appears William C. 
Drury, named in the foregoing letter of attorney, before me, the sub- 
scriber, a justice of the peace for the state of Maryland, in and for 
the county aforesaid, and acknowledged the same to be his act and 
deed for the purposes therein mentioned. Acknowledged before 

JNO. MclLHENNY. 



Maryland, Washington County, set. 
On this 19th day of June, 1832, personally appears William C. 
Drury, named in the foregoing letter of attorney, before me the sub- 
scriber, a justice of the peace for the state of Maryland, in and for 
the county aforesaid; and makes oath, on the Holy Evangelists of Al- 
mighty God, that his negro boy, named Charles Brown, eloped from 
him on Saturday night, the 16th inst.; that the said negro boy is about 
eighteen years of age, about five feet nine or ten inches high, of a 
dark complexion, well made, and a good countenance, and that he is 
a slave for life. W. C. DRURY. 

Sworn and subscribed before me, 
Jno. McIlhenny. 



State of Maryland, Washington County, to wit: 
I, Otho D. Williams, clerk of Washington county court, do hereby 
certify, that John McIlhenny, gentleman, before whom the foregoing 
acknowledgment and affidavit appear to have been made, and who 
has thereto subscribed his name, is a justice" of the peace of the state 
of Maryland, in and for the said county, duly commissioned and sworn, 
and duly authorized and empowered to administer oaths and take the 
acknowledgments of deeds and other instruments of writing; and to 
all his acts as such, faith and credit is due, as well in courts of justice 
as thereout. 

Seal of the ^ In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed 
court of Wash- ! my name, and fixed my seal of office, this nine- 
ington co. court, J teenth day of June, in the year of our Lord 
Maryland. J one thousand eight hundred and thirtv-two. 
O. H. WILLIAMS, Cllc, 

W. C. C Md. 



State of Maryland, Washington county, to wit: 

I, John Buchanan, chief judge of the fifth judicial district of the 
state of Maryland, composed of the counties of Frederick, Washing- 
ton, and Allegheny, hereby certify, that Otho H. Williams is clerk 
of Washington county court; and that the foregoing attestation by 
him made, is in due form, and by the proper officer. Given under 
my hand and seal, this 19th day of June, in the year of our Lord 
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two. 

JNO. BUCHANAN, [seal.] 

[Copy of a letter from William C. Drury to Edward Fitzpatrick, 
dated 

" Williamsport, 19th January, 1835. 

Dear Sir: — I was at the post office when the mail arrived this 
morning, and received your two letters. I immediately went home 
to get the enclosed power of attorney, which is all complete except to 
insert the name, which you may put in your own, or any other per- 
son's, as you may think proper. If the boy is there, and Michael or 
yourself can prove him, I wish you to spare no cost or expense to 
get him. Do not be governed at all by the reward offered in the ad- 
vertisement,* one of which I will direct Freaner to send you — I have 
none with me. Your's, &c, W. C. DRURY." 

" Write to me. Should you put your own name in the power, it 
will want no alteration, which you had better do, if you think Michael 
will be able to prove him. But should you have any fears of that, 
you, perhaps, had better get some one else to act — and, in that event, 
perhaps it will be necessary to make some alteration as to his resi- 
dence. But do nothing of that sort without advice from your coun- 
sel. In fact, I do not .know whether you dare make any alterations, 
as it is now executed. Your's, &c, W. C. DRURY," 



[* Copy of the advertisement alluded to.] 
"Stop the thief — 50 dollars reward. — Ran away from the subscri- 
ber's farm, near Williamsport, on Saturday night last, a negro boy, 
who calls himself Charles Brown, 18 years old, about 5 feet 9 or 10 
inches high, not stout, but well proportioned; of a dark complexion, 
and good countenance. Had on and took with him, one fine blue 
cloth coat, half worn, white fur hat, do., one pair new drab corderoy 
pantaloons, one black silk vest, one fine muslin shirt, one or two coarse 
working do., one light drab home-made cloth short coat, one or two 
pair of double threaded cotton pantaloons, one pair white cotton dril- 
ling, one do. fine shoes, stockings, and other articles not remembered. 
He rode away a sorrel mare, about 15 years old, with a white blaze 
in the face, both hind feet believed to be white; paces and trots, and 
when pacing, throws one of her feet a little out, as if stiff in the joint 



8 

— an old saddle, much worn, snaffle bridle, with plated bit. The 
above reward will be paid if taken out of the county, or $25 if taken 
in the county, and all reasonable charges if brought home. 

W. C. DRURY. 

"N. B. A liberal reward will be given for any information that 
may lead to the recovery of the above described runaway, or mare. 
June 21, 1832. W. D. Bell, Printer, Hagerstown." On the back 
of the printed copy of this advertisement, was the following letter: 

" Hagerstown, January 20th, 1835. 
" Mr. Edward Fitzpatrick, 
" Dear Sir: — You will receive this hand-bill through the medium 
of the post office, from which you will know whether the black boy 
advertised or described in this be in your neighborhood. If so, any 
information you may want, you can have by writing to me in Hagers- 
town. This hand-bill I send you by request of Col. Wm. C. Drury, 
of our county. Your's, &c, &c, 

WILLIAM FREANER." 

[The affidavit of Edward Fitzpatrick, drawn up by Mr. Dallas, 
and sworn to before alderman Scully, and the recog. of E. Fitzpa- 
trick and S. Kingston, each in $200 cond. to pay the expenses of 
keeping, &c, according to the provisions of the 7th sect, of the act of 
the 25th of March, 1 826, Purdon 656, was then offered by Mr. Dallas as 
counsel for the alledged master, VV. C. Drury, and a motion made to 
adjourn the further hearing of this case until Monday next, 2d Feb., 
1835, at 10 o'clock, A. M., at this place.] 

State of Pennsylvania, Allegheny County, 
City of Pittsburgh, ss. 

Before the subscriber, an alderman in and for the said city, per- 
sonally appeared Edward Fitzpatrick, who being duly sworn, saith 
that he wrote to Wm. C. Drury, of Hagerstown, Maryland, the 
master of Charles Brown, by yesterday's (Monday's) mail, request- 
inf and urging him, the said William C. Drury, to come on imme- 
diately to Pittsburgh, for the purpose of taking possession of his run- 
away slave, Charles Brown: — that deponent has no doubt that Wil- 
liam C. Drury will, in consequence of said letter, leave Hagerstown 
by the next stage after the receipt of the said letter: — that the depo- 
nent believes that the mail arrives at and leaves Hagerstown from 
and to the west daily, and accomplishes its journey to this place (Pitts- 
burgh) in two days: — that the said William C. Drury, should he re- 
ceive said letter in the usual course of mail, will leave Hagerstown on 
Thursday, and be in Pittsburgh on Saturday next. — Deponent further 
states, that on this morning he wrote a letter to William C. Drury, 
by a private opportunity, (Mr. Wm. Byrnes,) who goes directly on 
to Hagerstown, and promised to deliver it to the said Wm. C. Drury 
on his arrival at Hagerstown. — Deponent further states, that Wm. C= 



9 

Drury is the principal, under whose power of attorney of the 19th 
of June, 1832, the deponent has acted, in arresting and confining 
the said Charles Brown; and that the said William C. Drury will, 
as deponent verily believes, be enabled to produce satisfactory docu- 
mentary proof of his title to the said slave. 

EDW. FITZPATRICK. 
Sworn and subscribed before me, ? r> a o , au 

27th January, 1835. \ D ' S * ScuLLY > Ald ' 

Edward Fitzpatrick and Samuel Kingston, each tent, in the sum 
of $200, conditioned that William C. Drury shall prosecute his 
claim to the person and services of Charles Brown, the respondent, 
on Monday next, at 10 o'clock, A. M. Taken and acknowledged be- 
fore me, in pursuance of the acts of assembly in such cases made and 
provided. 

E. Pentland, Recorder of Pittsburgh. 

McCandless and Hamilton opposed the continuance, on the addi- 
tional grounds to what had been heretofore taken — that the affidavit 
does not comply with the terms of the act of assembly — the adjourn- 
ment must be to enable the party to procure " testimony material to 
the matter in controversy." Sect. 7th. And further, the absence of 
Drury is not material, for if he were here, he would not be heard; 
the proviso of the 6th sect, declaring, " that the oath of the owner 
or owners, or other persons interested, shall in no case be received 
in evidence before the judge, on hearing of the case." Again, the 
boy is entitled to a hearing instanter — he is not to be deprived of his 
liberty in the first instance, and then time given to the master or owner 
to procure the proof. He should have his proof ready at the time of 
making the arrest. The affidavit is altogether insufficient — the di- 
rections of the act of assembly ought to be strictly pursued. Even 
in a civil case, the party arrested, and in custody, has a right to a 
rule on the plff. to shew cause of action instanter — the deft, is not to 
be held in custody, and deprived of his liberty, in order to afford the 
plff. time to prove the nature of his demand, or cause of action. This 
he should be prepared to do at the time of making the arrest — and if 
he is not prepared, the defendant is entitled to his discharge, on com- 
mon bail, at once. No time will be allowed. If the law is so strict 
in civil cases, ought it to be more loose in criminal cases? for I do 
consider this in no other light than as a quasi-criminal case. 

Mr. Dallas in reply. — This is not a criminal, nor a g'wasi-criminal 
case — far from it. It is a question of property, arising under the 
3d sect, of the act of congress of 12th February, 1793. Story's 
ed. Laws of U. S., vol. 1. p. 285. Gordon's Digest, p. 555: the 
proceedings under which are regulated by the provisions of the act of 
assembly of 25th March, 1826. Purdon's Dig. 654, 657. This is 
the first and primary hearing — a hearing for the purpose of enquiry. 
The arrest on Saturday was not in time to allow a hearing, and the 

2 



10 

case was properly adjourned till Monday, (yesterday,) and yesterday 
the case, by consent of all parties., was adjourned till to-day. The 
party is entitled to a continuance under the provisions of the 7th sect. 
of the act of 25th March, 1826. If the party claiming the property 
is "not ready for trial" — and the alledged "testimony can be procured 
in a reasonable time" — these are the specific terms of the act of assem- 
bly. The affidavit is sufficient, because the power of attorney being 
now a material part of the case, it is material to the master to show 
its proper and legal execution. Besides, the suggestions as to the 
letter and power of attorney came from the Recorder himself, and not 
from Brown or his counsel. This, therefore, is an application to 
reach the conscience of the judge — to satisfy his conscience as to a 
doubt which he has himself raised. In this case he act as a chan- 
cellor — and what is the duty of a judge in such a case as this? Will 
he not allow the party a reasonable time to procure material testi- 
mony, to remove a doubt on his mind, suggested by himself, which 
we did not come prepared to remove, and which we, by no possibility, 
could have anticipated? This is, too, so far as regards the letter and 
power of attorney, a preliminary question — because if the power of 
attorney is worth nothing, the case is gone. We say it is good, and 
I believe it to be good, and in strict compliance with the provisions of 
the act of congress. But the chancellor doubts — and shall it be said 
for a minute, that in a case like this, a question of property — because, 
we may disguise it as we may, and talk as much about slavery and 
liberty as we please — still it is nothing more nor less than a question 
of property — shall it be said, that the claimant shall not have a rea- 
sonable opportunity of procuring legal testimony to remove the doubts 
of the judge as respects the validity of a legal instrument by which 
that property is claimed? This is an application to the sound discre- 
tion of the judge. We have substantially complied with the provisions 
of the act of assembly — we have filed our affidavit, and given secu- 
rity for the maintenance of the slave — we have done all we are bound 
to do — and this is an application to the discretion of the judge, on ^pre- 
liminary question, just as much as an application is to a judgf/to hold 
to bail, on an affidavit of a bona fide subsisting debt, about '/he legal 
execution of which he entertains doubts — which doubts the plff. craves 
a reasonable time to remove. 

By the Recorder. — I consider this as the first hearing of the case. 
The production of the power of attorney, constituting Fitzpatrick as 
the agent and attorney in fact of W. C. Drury, is a preliminary mat- 
ter altogether; because, without this power of attorney, or with it, if 
it be not properly and legally executed, according to law, the applica- 
tion ends, and the respondent must be discharged. The 3d sect, of the 
act of assembly of the 25th March, 1826, provides that applications 
like the present must come, in the first instance, from "the person to 
whom such labour or service is due, his or her duly authorized agent 
or attorney, constituted in writing." The 4th sect, is still more ex- 



11 

plicit; because no warrant shall issue, according to the provisions of 
the 53d sect., "unless the said agent or attorney shall, in addition to 
his own oath o?' affirmation, produce the affidavit of the claimant of 
the fugitive, taken before, and certified by the proper authority of the 
state or territory in which the claimant resides, accompanied by cer- 
tificates," &c. The power of attorney from Drury to Fitzpatrick 
is dated 19th June, 1832, acknowledged same day before Jno. McIU 
henny, Esq., accompanied by the affidavit of Drury, as to the elope- 
ment of Charles Brown, describing his person, and declaring him a 
slave for life, sworn to on the same day, 19th of June, 1832; to which 
is appended the certificate of Otho H. Williams, Esq., clerk of the 
county court of Washington county, certifying, under the seal of 
the said court, that the said Jno. Mcllhenny, Esq., is a justice of 
the peace, &c, and the certificate of Jno. Buchanan, chief judge of 
the 5th judicial district of Maryland, comprehending the counties of 
Washington, Frederick and Allegheny, certifying that the foregoing 
attestation was in due form of law, also dated 19th June, 1832. This 
power of attorney was acknowledged, it appears, in blank; was re- 
cently enclosed by Mr. Drury to Fitzpatrick, from Hagerstown to 
this place, and the blank filled by Mr. Fitzpatrick with his own name. 
The suggestion as to this fact came from myself. Since this, the annex- 
ed affidavit has been made, as to certain matters, by Fitzpatrick; and 
surety entered for maintenance, &c, according to the provisions of 
the act of assembly, on which the motion for a continuance is grounded. 
I think the application, under all the circumstances of the case, a rea- 
sonable one, and therefore order and direct the further hearing of this 
case to be postponed until Monday next, at 10 o'clock, A. M., at this 
place; and that the said Charles Brown be, in the meantime, remanded 
to the custody of the sheriff* and jailor of Allegheny county, to be 
there properly supported at the expense of the applicant, according to 
law; and to have the privilege, at all reasonable times, to be visited by 
his friends and by his counsel; to have subpoenas for such witnesses as 
he may deem necessary to the proper hearing of his case, and to offer 
bail, at any time, for his appearance, to answer according to law. 
There is no privilege, in my opinion, as to the contemplated hearing, 
grantable to the master, that is not, at the same time, the right of the 
respondent; and as to the merits of the case, a delay for so short a 
period can do no injury to either party. The object is to do justice — 
and, although T admit that the law should be construed favorably to lib- 
erty, I do not think it necessary that the claimant should be denied the 
opportunity, contemplated by the very terms of the act of assembly, 
to prove his claim to the property. It is not my duty, as appears to 
be insinuated, to strain a point favorable to the respondent. The law, 
and its interpretation, must not be strained either way. Both parties 
must be dealt with alike — with the same degree of favour. I feel no 
bias for either. Let the case be postponed until Monday next, the 2d 



12 

of February, at 10 o'clock, A. M., at the court house, and all per. 
sons concerned be notified accordingly. 



Adjourned hearing — -continued from Tuesday last. Monday, Feb- 
ruary 2d, 1835, proceeded to the hearing of this case, at the court 
house, in Pittsburgh. 

Dallas and Kingston, counsel for Drury, the master, moved for a 
further postponement of the final hearing of this case until Wednesday 
next, at 10 o'clock, A. M. Opposed by M'Candless and Hamilton, 
the counsel of Charles Broivn, the alledged slave. 

Dallas, in support of the motion. — We ask for this continuance on 
two grounds. — 1st. Because we have used all due diligence to procure 
the material testimony alledged at the last hearing to be wanted on 
our part, and because, since the last adjournment the aspect of the case 
has been considerably changed, in consequence of our being able to 
shew that the health of Mr. Drury is such as to prevent his using that 
expedition in travelling, at this inclement season of the year, which a 
man in robust health might use. 2d. Because we do not think this 
case now properly before the Recorder, inasmuch as there has been 
no writ of Hab. Corp. taken out, which is rendered absolutely neces- 
sary, in all cases like the present, by the provisions of the 7th sect, 
of the act of 25th of March, 1826. 

WCandless, in opposition to the motion. — We consider this appli- 
cation for a continuance a mere affectation of delay; and after the 
first continuance the party is not entitled to favour; nor is the state of 
Mr. Drury 's health at all material. The respondent is deprived of his 
liberty, and those who wish to deprive him of it, ought, at the moment 
of arrest, to have been fully prepared to show their authority for so 
doing. It is the right of the deft, to be heard. He is ready, and 
anxious to be heard now. The testimony of those by whom it is offered 
to prove Mr. Drury's state of health can at best be but hearsay, de- 
rived from Mr. Drury himself, which in fact is no evidence at all. 
When the first application for a continuance was made, we opposed 
it and thought hard of it; and when it was granted it was with an 
understanding, indeed with the declaration of the Recorder himself, 
that this should be the time of final hearing. The postponement was 
at their urgent request, after they had discovered, perhaps, some defect 
in their testimony. As to the necessity of a writ of Hab. Corp. and 
of the inability of the judge to proceed without one, we consider this 
a strange fancy, indeed. There has been no new commitment — noth- 
ing taking the boy out of the hands of the legal authority before which 
we have already had a partial hearing. He was remanded for a 
hearing till to-day — not committed. It is idle, for another reason — the 
boy is here before us — there is no reason or necessity for a Hab. Corp. 



13 

and if there was, the application could now be made, granted, al- 
lowed, and issued instanter, and the hearing, we presume, would pro- 
ceed, as the taking out of the writ of Hab. Corp. would not cost half 
an hour's delay. We do not think this case comes under the provi- 
sions of the 7th sect, of the act of 25th March, 1826; but under the 
provisions of the four preceding sections. We hope the application 
will be refused. 

Kingston, in reply. — The writ of Hab. Corp. is absolutely neces- 
sary. There must always be a writ, of some sort, to found the pro- 
ceedings on; the foundation of the commencement, as it were. How, 
otherwise, is the record to be made up. These proceedings are to be 
a matter of record — they must be filed of record — and on this record 
a writ of error may be taken to remove the whole proceedings to a 
higher tribunal. The application is not an affectation of delay, to 
gain time to produce further proof. It is a reasonable one, taking 
all the circumstances of the case into consideration. It is directed 
to the discretion of the judge, who is bound to look to the rights of 
the owner, (in order that he may not be illegally deprived of his pro- 
perty,) as well as to the rights of the slave. The owner ought to 
have a fair and reasonable time and opportunity to prove his property 
according to the constitution and laws of the country. No unneces- 
sary haste ought to be used to cut him out of his legal rights. 

Mr. Dallas then offered Edward Fitzpatrick, to pi'ove the use of due 
diligence on their part since the last adjournment, and other circum- 
stances, which he conscientiously believed would show that he was 
entitled to a further postponement, and also show that the application 
was not an affectation of delay. 

The Recorder directed him to be sworn, and 

Edward Fitzpatrick, sworn — On Monday last I wrote to Miv 
Drury, and put the letter into the post office. On the same day I 
wrote to him, at Hagerstown, another letter by a private hand, (by 
Mr. Wm. Byrne,) who promised to deliver it as soon as he arrived at 
Hagerstown. On Tuesday, immediately after the adjournment, I 
wrote two letters to Mr. Drury — one enclosed to the post master at 
Williamsport, and the other to the post master at Hagerstown; each- 
enclosing one for Mr. Drury — both with a request that they might be 
delivered to Mr. D. as soon as they were received. The date of the 
last letter I received from Mr. Drury is 29th of January, 1 835. Mr. 
Drury is a man of delicate constitution, and is now, I believe, in an 
infirm state of health; and the weather has been very inclement for 
some days past. I expectJMr. Drury every day. — I am confident he 
would make no unnecessary delay, provided he receives my letters 
from the post office. 

The Recorder having expressed some doubts as to the true con- 
struction of the 7th sect, of the act of 25th of March, 1826, requi- 
ring a writ of Hab. Corp. the question was again fully argued by 



14 

Messrs. Dallas and Kingston for, and 

Messrs. M'Candless and Hamilton against, the necessity of a writ 
of Hab. Corp. being issued in this case, now, in order to give the 
Recorder jurisdiction over it, under the provisions of the 7th sect, 
of the act of assembly of the 25th of March, 1826. 

Adjourned till 2 o'clock, P. M. 



Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 3d, 1835, 2 o'clock, P. M. The hearing 
<of this case was resumed, and the Recorder gave the following opinion: 

The application for a further continuance of this case, until Wed- 
nesday next, is supported by the affidavit of Edward Fitzpatriclc, that 
due diligence, in the ordinary way, has been used by him to procure 
the attendance of William C. Drury — and every possible means, in 
his power, taken to send information to him, and apprise him of the 
pendency of this case, by letters sent to himself, personally, by mail, 
and by private hand, and by others enclosed to the post masters at 
Williamsport and Hagerstown — stating, also, the delicate constitution 
and infirm health of Mr. Drury, the inclemency of the weather for 
some days past, &c, and his confident expectation of Mr. Drury's 
speedy arrival, if he receives the letters sent. It is, moreover, ob- 
jected by the counsel of Mr. Drury, that this case is not now regu- 
larly before me for hearing, inasmuch, as since the last adjournment, 
no writ of Hab. Corp. has been taken out by Charles Brown, which 
is actually required in order to lay the foundation of the proceedings. 
The last objection I shall consider in the first place, because it has 
been ably and earnestly pressed upon my consideration, and is a point 
of the first importance. 

The 7th sect, of the act of assembly provides — " That when the 
fugitive shall be brought before the judge, agreeably to the provisions 
of this act, and either party alledge, and prove, to the satisfaction 
of the said judge, that he or she is not prepared for trial, and have 
testimony material to the matter in controversy, that can be obtained 
in a reasonable time, it shall and may be lawful, unless security, sa- 
tisfactory to the said judge, be given for the appearance of the said 
fugitive, on a day certain, to commit the said fugitive to the common 
jail for safe keeping; there to be detained, at the expense of the owner, 
agent or attorney, for such time as the said judge shall think reason- 
able and just, and to a day certain, when the said fugitive shall be 
brought before him by Habeas Corpus, in the court house of the pro- 
per county, or in term time, at the chamber of the said judge, for 
final hearing and adjudication. Provided, That if the adjournment 
of the hearing be requested by the claimant, his agent, or attorney, 
such adjournment shall not be granted, unless the said claimant, his 
agent or attorney, shall give security, satisfactory to the judge, to 
appear and prosecute his claim, on the day to which the hearing shall 
be adjourned," &c. 



15 

Comparing, carefully, this section with the provisions of the 3d, 
4th, 5th, and 6th sects, of the act, it would appear, that two several 
species of cases are specially provided for. First, cases where the 
fugitive is apprehended by a warrant issued " by any judge, justice 
of the peace, or alderman," and the party is brought " before a judge 
of the proper county," forthwith, for hearing — the 6th sect, providing 
that "the said fugitive from labour or service, when so arrested, shall 
be brought before a judge as aforesaid, and upon proof, &c, a certi- 
ficate of removal to be granted." Second, another class of cases, 
(to which the 7th sect, particularly applies,) when, after the party is 
arrested and brought before the judge, and before any proceedings are 
had, there is an allegation by either party, master or fugitive, that 
he or she is not ready for trial, the case is to be postponed, to a day 
certain, and the judge is to commit the fugitive to a day certain, "un- 
less security be given, satisfactory to the said judge, for the appear- 
ance of the said fugitive, on a day certain," &c; if the application for an 
adjournment in such cases is from the master, he also must give secu- 
rity, to the satisfaction of the judge, to appear and prosecute his claim, 
on the day to which the hearing shall be adjourned. It also provides, 
that if the judge making such adjournment, and taking the security, 
as aforesaid, should be absent, sick, or otherwise unable to attend, it 
shall be the duty of either of the other judges, on notice given, to at- 
tend to the said hearing, and to decide thereon." In both these des- 
cription of cases, the duties of the justice of the peace, or the alder" 
man, ceases after he has issued his warrant. 

The 7th sect, evidently contemplates the bringing of the fugitive 
before one of the judges of the court of common pleas of the county. 
It is only by implication, as expressed in the 10th sect, of the act, 
that I appear to have any jurisdiction in the case. The 10th sect. 
says — " It shall be the duty of the judge, or recorder of any court 
of record of this commonwealth, when he grants or issues any cer- 
tificate or warrant of removal for any fugitive, to make a record 
thereof, and file the same," &c. The mayor's court of Pittsburgh 
being a court of record, and I being recorder thereof, gives me jurisdic- 
tion in this case — but, consequently, it must be intended that I should 
pursue the same rules as are laid down in the preceding sections for 
the conduct of the judges of the court of common pleas on similar 
occasions. Now, if on the first hearing of the case, either of the 
parties had alledged that they were not prepared for trial, I should 
have proceeded under the provisions of the 7th sect, and committed the 
fugitive, unless he gave security; and if the allegation of not being 
prepared came from the master, have bound him in security to prose- 
cute, &c, on the day certain for which the hearing was adjourned. 
In such case a writ of Hab. Corp. would be absolutely necessary — 
for, as men's lives and business are uncertain, the legislature intend- 
ed that there should be no delay of justice on account of such casual- 
ties — and, therefore, the last provision of the 7th sect. " Provided , 



16 

that on the hearing last mentioned, if the judge committing the said 
fugitive, (I presume, after an allegation from either party that they 
were not ready for trial, and that the fugitive had failed to give bail 
— for he has liberty to give bail for his appearance, as well as his 
master — and the master had given security to appear and prosecute 
his claim on the day to which the hearing was adjourned,) if the 
judge commiting the said fugitive, or taking the security as afore- 
said, should be absent, sick, or otherwise unable to attend, it shall 
be the duty of either of the other judges, on notice given, to attend 
to the said hearing, and to decide thereon." If I had committed the 
party, under the circumstances I mention, a writ of Hab. Corp. would 
have been necessary — and such Hab. Corp. might have been allowed, 
either by myself, or any one of the three judges of the court of 
common pleas, in case of my absence, sickness, or inability to at- 
tend. 

What, then, are the circumstances of this case? When the prisoner 
was arrested, he was properly enough brought before me — but there 
was no allegation by either party that they were " not prepared for 
trial." He was brought before me on Saturday, between 8 and 9 
o'clock at night — it was a very inconvenient hour — in fact, it was to- 
tally impossible for me to enter upon the examination of the case, 
and do justice to either of the parties, or myself; and the alledged fu- 
gitive having no friend or counsel with him, I, as a matter of conve- 
nience and accommodation to all parties, committed him to the cus- 
tody of the sheriff and jailer, for further examination, and appointed 
Monday next thereafter for the hearing, giving directions that his 
friends and counsel should have the privilege of seeing him in the 
meantime. Indeed I may add here, although it is not necessary, 
that I wished the boy to have counsel — and that I spoke to Abraham, 
Lewis, (one of our most orderly and respectable coloured men,) and 
told him that a decent looking black boy was in jail, and claimed as 
a slave; that I did not know the circumstances of the case, but I 
thought it all right he should have counsel, and a fair hearing. He 
said he had heard of it, and some one would be employed for him. 
Accordingly on Monday I directed him to be brought up, for the pur- 
pose of entering on the hearing. No allegation was then made, by 
either party, of not being prepared for trial — but by consent of all 
parties, the hearing was further postponed until the next day, Tues- 
day, the 27th Jan. at 10 o'clock, at the court house — and the deft. 
was accordingly remanded. On Tuesday all the parties appeared, 
and, without any allegation from either party of not being pre- 
pared for trial, the hearing wasjirst regularly entered upon. Several 
witnesses were examined, when an application was made, on the part 
of the master, for a continuance, under peculiar circumstances, which 
I granted, for the reasons which I have already stated and delivered 
— the continuance was at the request of the master. Saturday was 
mentioned as the time of his being expected — the adjournment was 



17 

till this day; and the respondent was remanded accordingly. So that, 
in fact, there has been no commitment to a day certain, under any of 
the contingencies provided for in the 7th sect. — but a remanding, 
under the peculiar circumstances of the case, for a further hearing — 
and which hearing is now in progress, as I conceive it — and con- 
tinued, for the convenience of all parties, from time to time, at my 
discretion. I do not consider, as has been alledged by the master's 
counsel, that proceedings under a writ of Hab. Carp, are the subject 
of a writ of error, to a higher tribunal. If I thought so, for a mo- 
ment, it would induce me to stop instantly, and recommend the issu- 
ing of one immediately, returnable, probably, to-morrow. The terms 
of the act of congress, giving jurisdiction to "judges and magistrates," 
in cases like the present, are so general, that the remedy given to the 
owners of slaves was very often cruelly abused; and hence the inten- 
tion of the legislature to place certain guards round the conduct of 
the officer, to prevent the abuse of his authority. The U. S. could 
say what a Pa. magistrate or judge, in certain cases, might do — 
but as the legislature of Pa. had full power to prescribe the duties of 
judges and magistrates, acting under their authority, they could say, 
by the same authority, what they should not do. Therefore, although 
the 3d sect, of the 4th art. of the const, of the U. S., and the act of 
congress of the 12th of Feb., 1793, are the supreme law of the land, 
and no act passed by the legislature of Pa., contravening the same, 
would be constitutional — yet, every state having a right to regulate 
their own magistracy, and prescribe their duties, the act of assembly 
of the 25th of March, 1826, is to be considered declaratory of the man' 
ner in which the constitution and the act of congress is to be enforced by 
the judges and magistrates of Pa. This proceeding being, therefore, 
in my opinion, a summary one, intended to administer speedy and 
impartial justice, between the master and the fugitive, is not the sub- 
ject of a writ of error; although the proceedings are all to be filed of 
record, in certain cases. For these reasons I think there is no neces- 
sity for a writ of Hab. Corp. in this case, to give me jurisdiction over 
it — there having, at no time, been an actual commitment of the res- 
pondent under the original arrest, to a day certain, for & final hearing. 
As to the other grounds offered in support of the application for a 
continuance, I can only say, that the full time asked for in the first 
instance was granted — if it had then been for two or three days longer, 
it is probable the time would then have been extended. But whilst no 
indecent haste should be observed with regard to the rights of the master 
or owner, yet something is due to the principles of personal liberty, 
so that they may not be less lightly regarded than they have hitherto 
been, respecting, as we are bound to do, the rights and property of 
our fellow citizens of other states. From Mr. Fitzpatrick' 's own 
statement, there is no certainty of Mr. Drury being here, or his send- 
ing an agent — there is a probability, depending upon his receipt of the 
letters sent to him by Mr. F. But after one postponement, to the full ex- 

3 



18 

tent asked for, it would hardly be impartial to grant another, upon a 
contingency altogether uncertain, both as respects Mr. Drury's 
health, his receipt of the letters sent by the mail, and the state of the 
weather. Upon both grounds, therefore, the application for a further 
continuance of the hearing is overruled. — Let the hearing proceed. 



Tuesday, February 3d, 1835, 2 o'clock, P. M. 

Edward Fitzpatrick called again. — The examination of this wit- 
ness now, was opposed by M'Candless, the counsel of Brown, the 
respondent, on the ground that he had already been examined in chief, 
and cross examined, and dismissed; and the witness cannot again be 
called to testify to any new facts, or respecting any thing that may 
have occurred since his former examination. Such a course would be 
irregular, and contrary to all rule — there would be no end to the exam- 
inations of a witness, if such a course was allowed. It would afford 
the complainants here an opportunity of bolstering up and patching 
all deficiencies in their testimony, as fast as the defects were discov- 
ered. 

Dallas, in reply. — The application, in fact, comes from the witness 
himself. He is desirous of explaining some portions of his former 
testimony, not properly understood, and which has not been noted by 
the recorder. 

Testimony admitted. 

Edward Fitzpatrick sworn. — I was asked by Mr. JSPCandless 
how I knew Charles Brown was born a slave, as I was not present 
at his birth. The boy's father, Isaac Broivn, told me that his son, 
this boy, Charles Brown, was born in Mr. Drury's family. Isaac 
said he was born in Mr. Drury's family. This is the answer I give 
to Mr. W Candles^ question of how I knew that Charles was born 
in Mr. Drury's family. Isaac, the father of Charles, told me fre- 
quently that himself, his wife, and ten or eleven children, were the 
slaves of Mr. Drury. Mr. DSs father is dead; his name was Enoch 
Drury; he died, I think, in 1818, and at his death the slaves became 
the property of his son. E. Drury had another son, (brother of W. 
C. Drury,) who died in 1825, unmarried, and without issue — and W. 
C. Drury is the only living child of E. Drury — and he is an unmar- 
ried man. His mother, I believe, lives with him. 

D. S. Scully, Esq., sworn. — When Brown was apprehended, and 
brought before me, he said his name was Charles Brown — that he 
was born in Butler county, Pa. I asked him if he knew any person 
there; he said he knew one Galloway there — that Butler was 10 miles 
from Pittsburgh. He said he had been at Buffalo. He did not know 
but one Galloway, and he lived in Allegheny town. Said he did not 
know where Glade Mills were. He was not cautioned about saying 
any thing to injure himself. These questions were put to him in the 
presence of the Recorder, and Mr. Kingston, Fitzpatrick, and my~ 
self. 



Robert Hague, constable, sworn. — Brown was not cautioned as to 
his disclosures or confessions, that I heard. No inducement was held 
out to him to say any thing. He readily,, and without hesitation, an- 
swered to the name of Charles Brown. Did not say much till we 
came to Sweeny's. Here we met Fitzpatrick, who spoke to him, and 
asked him, as Charles Brown, how he did. He appeared not to re- 
cognize F. After the boy was brought in, he was asked if he knew 
the boy. He smiled, and said he believed he had seen him before, 
but he could not tell where. He smiled, as if he knew the boy. 

Andrew D. Dunshee, constable, affirmed. — At the time Charles 
Brown was arrested he attempted to break away. Done all in his 
power to get off — made great resistance. He asked what he was ar- 
rested for, and we told him we would tell him as soon as we could 
get to where we could find light to show him the warrant. We took 
him into Sweeny's. Mr. Edw. Fitzpatrick spoke to him as Charles 
Brown — he answered, and said that, that was his name. F. asked him 
if he had not known him in Hagerstown. He denied knowing any 
thing about Fitzpatrick, and that he ever was in Hagerstown. Soma 
person asked him where he was born, and he said in Butler county. 
He said he knew the boy — that he had seen him before, at some place 
or other, but he could not tell where, or rather recollect where. 

Power of attorney from W. C. Drury to Edw. Fitzpatrick, dated 
19th Jan., 1832, read in evidence; as also a letter, in which said 
power was enclosed, from W. C. Drury to Edw. Fitzpatrick, dated 
at Williamsport, 19th January, 1835. Also a printed advertisement, 
offering a reward of $50 for Charles Brown, &c. [Closed on part 
of the complainant.] 

(Test, for Charles Broivn.) 
Sarah Cooney (yellow woman) sworn. — Says that she has known 
Charles Brown for 5 years last past. She lived at Isaac Whitaker's, 
about 12 miles up the Monongahela river, and was raised there. 
Charles Brown was hired as a farmer at Joseph West's. I removed, 
after I was married, to Butler county, Middlesex township, and lived 
there four years, and have been one year back. Went there in the 
spring, four years ago last 1st of April, and came back this fall. 
When I came back I saw Brown at Jos. West's, near Whitaker's. I 
know him well, because I have seen him so often. He always called 
himself Charles Brown. Cross examined. — He had been there two 
years, I think, before I saw him. Jas. Whitalter told me so. Knew 
him there two years — four years I was in Butler county — and back 
since last fall. I do not know where he came from. He worked two 
years at West's. I got back to Mr. West's in October last. I now 
live in Allegheny town. He lives there also. He has been a year 
or so about there. He was down the river also. He was as large as 
he is now six years ago. I am certain this is the same boy, and that 
he always went by the name of Charles Broxon. 

3* 



Sarah Coffee (black) sworn. — I have known Charles Brown since 
May last, four years. Knew him up the Monongahela river, at Whit- 
aker's: he lived on one side of the river, and we on the other. He 
used to come over occasionally to our house. I am married: my 
husband is here — he's a farmer, and worked on Jeffrey's farm. I 
am certain this is the same boy; and also certain as to the time I first 
saw him. I know it, because my little boy was about three weeks 
old when I first saw him, and he will be four years old next May. 
Cross examined. — Jeffrey's place is two miles below McKeesport; 
moved here last fall, about seeding time — lived about a year at 
Jeffrey's — saw Charles Brown first at Whitaker's during the time I 
lived at. Jeffrey's. — No — I saw him first when we lived up the Alleghe- 
ny river, on Dickey's place, two or three years ago. My child was 
born there — from there we removed to Jeffrey's — and then he came 
over from Whitaker's to see us. He makes his home at our house — 
we live now in Allegheny town. 1 saw him the morning of the day 
he was taken. Had no conversation with the colored people about 
him. I was subpcened by the constable, and attended accordingly. 

Ferry Ross, (yellow man) sworn. — I have known Charles Brown 
about eight years, I think — saw him first at Old Town in Maryland, 
15 miles below Fort Cumberland, in Allegheny county, Maryland. 
When I first knew him he lived at, or was working about, Old Town: 
when I was there, I saw him often. He always passed there as a 
free man. I came here about last Christmas, and happened to meet 
him. He spoke to me, and I recognized him. He was then as big 
nearly as he is now; that is, as tall, but not quite so stout — he was 
slimmer. Saw him at Old Town several times; three or four times 
drank grog with him. He was well thought of there, and well liked 
— being active, smart, and good natured. Old Town is 5 miles from 
Cumberland, 27 miles from Flint Spring, and 27 from there to Hagers- 
town. I know the road well. I was manumitted; purchased my 
freedom three years ago, and came here last Christmas. He was al- 
ways called Charles Brown. 

Dennis Ross, (yellow man), son of Ferry Ross, sworn. — I have 
known this boy, Charles Brown, six or seven years past. I knew 
him first in Old Town, Maryland. I am the son of Ferry Ross. He, 
(Charles Brown,) always passed there for a freeman. I cannot tell 
how long he was in Old Town. He was engaged there to work by 
almost every one that wanted a hand. He was then about as tall as 
he is now, but not so stout or thick, I think. I am now upwards of 
23 years. He was 20, I suppose, when I first knew him, and me 16 
or 17. 

Edward Lewis, (black) sworn. — I knew this boy, Charles Brown, 
between four and five years ago. I first saw him at Muttontown, 5 
miles from Hagerstown. Saw him next at Greencastle, 1 1 miles from 
Chambersburgh, a week or so afterwards. Saw him here, for the 
first time, last fall. Know him well, as Charles Brown. He passed 



21 

for a freeman. When I first knew him I was a smart boy, about 
20 or so, and he was about my size. I am now about 24 or 25. I 
served my time with Mr. lawyer Dunlop, of Chambersburgh, and 
was free when I was 21. This is the same Charles Brown. I can't 
be mistaken. 

Pero Coffee, (black) sworn. — I live in Allegheny town. I lived up 
the Allegheny river about three years ago — came down next March 
will he a year ago, and moved to a house two miles below McKees- 
port on the 2d of April last. Moved from there about the last of Oc- 
tober last, to Allegheny town. That would make it altogether near 
four years. I am the husband of Sarah Coffee. First knew Charles 
Brown up the Allegheny river. Got acquainted with him again at 
Whitaker^s. My child will be four years old next May. I first 
knew him three years ago, when I lived up the Allegheny, on the 
land of Thos. Dickey and Arch. Gill. He said he came over the 
mountains, but he did not say from where. I took him, when I first 
knew him, to be about 20 or 21. I may have lived up the Allegheny 
river almost two years before I first knew him. He was always 
called Charles Brown, and passed for a freeman. 

The testimony being closed on both sides — 

Mr. Kingston, for the master. — This is, in fact, a question of pro- 
perty — a species of property solemnly recognized, as such, by the 
constitution and laws of the country; as much so as any other species 
of property, real or personal; and as to the legal possession of which, 
on a trial for ownership, the same rules of evidence prevails, as pre- 
vails in other cases of meum and teum. See const, of the U. S., 3d 
sect., 4th art. " fugitive slaves." I may say slaves — because, al- 
though the words " slaves," and " slavery," are not mentioned in the 
constitution, yet they are in it, in different terms. It would not suit the 
genius of the times, perhaps, in a nation which had just thi-own off the 
yoke of slavery herself, and still panting under the efforts of her glorious 
struggle for liberty, to have used the nauseous words, slaves or slavery 
— they therefore described them as " persons owing labour or service" 
— " fugitives from labour or service" — " persons held to service," &c.^ 
a sortof mock-heroic definition, to be sure, but it answers all the purposes 
of " slaves" and " slavery," just as well as if they had been absolutely 
used. Well, sir, the constitution and laws of the U. S. is the graviora lev 
— the supreme law of the land — and, as such, is fully recognized by the 
const, and laws of Penn'a., and in a particular manner by the act of 
assembly of the 25th of March, 1826, about which we have had so 
much discussion. The whole principles of these laws have been re- 
cognized by the decisions of the highest courts of the U. S., and of 
this state; and I would specially refer the counsel on the other side to 
the act of congress itself, of the 12th of Feb., 1793, and 2. S. & R. 
306; 3 S. 6? R. 4; 5 S. $ R. 62; 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 500; 2 
Pick. Rep. 11. Now, whatever notions of liberty we, or either of 
us, may entertain, (and God knows, no man in the country more re- 



22 

grets the black spot of slavery on our national escutcheon than I do,) 
we must consider that we are acting, under the laws and constitution, 
in a legal manner, to obtain possession of property to which we have, 
in the amplest manner, proved our title, by direct and positive testi- 
mony, clear of all doubts whatsoever. And you, sir, certainly, acting 
under oath, will not yield to your abhorrence of the curse of slavery, 
in deciding a question which comes directly to your conscience, acting 
under oath; nor strain a point to deprive one of your fellow-citizens, 
of Maryland, wrongfully of his lawful property. The 2d sect, of 
the 4th art. of the const, of the U. S. declares, " that the citizens of each 
state shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens 
of the several states." But it is clear, and has been often decided, 
that even free negroes, or mulattoes, are not citizens of the U. S. 
within the meaning of the constitution. 1 Little's Rep. 75. That, 
however, is not the question before us at present — but for the true 
construction of this sect, of the constitution, I refer to 4 John. Chan. 
Rep. 106, a decision by chancellor Kent, one of the first jurists of 
our country. Before the passage of the act of assembly of the 25th 
of March, 1826, a still more summary mode was given to the master, 
than is now allowed in Penn'a. In fact, it is fully evident, that pro- 
ceedings for the recovery of the possession of this species of property 
were intended by congress, under the constitution of the U. S., to be 
of the most summary kind; not to be hindered by the law's delay. 
The act of congress is imperative, and provides how the constitutional 
provision shall be enforced — and delegates certain powers under it to 
certain judges and magistrates — and their duty under it, according to 
the rules laid down in the act of assembly, is imperative, and cannot 
be departed from. 

Adjourned till 9 o'clock to-morrow morning. 



Wednesday, February 4th, 1834, 9 o'clock, A. M. Hearing pro- 
ceeded in. 

Mr. Dallas, for the master, proposes now, and asks leave to offer, 
the testimony of additional witnesses; Samuel Sterling, William 
Freaner, and Isaac Whitaker. Sterling residing 5 miles below Wil- 
liamsport, Maryland, and Freaner residing at Hagerstown, Md., and 
Whitaker, in Allegheny town. The two first arrived here in the east- 
ern stage, this morning, at 4 o'clock. 

The affidavits of Edward Fitzpatrick and Samuel Sterling were 
then taken and read — stating that Sterling was a material witness, 
and that the stage was detained at Mountpleasant, in a snow storm, 
or he and Freaner would have been here yesterday, &c, as follows: 

State of Pennsylvania, Allegheny County, 

City of Pittsburgh, ss. 

Edward Fitzpatrick, agent and attorney of William C Drury, 



23 

of Washington county, Maryland, being duly sworn, according to 
law, before the recorder of the said city, saith, that Samuel Sterling 
is a material witness on behalf of the said claimant, William C. 
Drury. That the said Samuel Sterling arrived here this morning, 
at 4 o'clock, in the mail stage, from Williamsport, Maryland, which 
place he left (as deponent is informed by him, the said Samuel Ster- 
ling,) on Saturday last, the 31st inst. That, in consequence of the 
snow storm of Sunday last, said Sterling was detained at Mountplea- 
sant, Westmoreland county, Penn'a., and was unable, as the said Ster- 
ling has informed this deponent, to get to Pittsburgh before the time 
above stated. Deponent further states, that said Sterling is able to 
prove, beyond all doubt, the right of William C. Drury to the labour 
and service of the fugitive, Charles Brown. 

EDWARD FITZPATRICK. 

Sworn and subscribed before me, } 
this 4th February, 1835. $ 

E. Pentland, Recorder of Pittsburgh. 

Samuel Sterling being duly sworn, before the Recorder of the city 
of Pittsburgh, saith that the facts set forth in the foregoing deposition 
of Edward FitzpatricJc, relative to him, this deponent, and to his de- 
tention on the road, are true and correct. 

SAMUEL STERLING. 
Sworn and subscribed before me, } 
this 4th February, 1835. $ 

E. Pentland, Recorder of Pittsburgh. 

The Recorder called the attention of the counsel on both sides to 
this enquiry: 1st. Is this proceeding to be considered in the nature 
of a trial — of a trial at bar, as in a case of horn. rep. — as if it were 
an issue of fact? 2d. Should the usual rules, observed on trials at 
bar, as to the admission of testimony, &c, be observed in cases like 
the present? This case has been closed, on both sides; one of the 
counsel for the master concluded his argument yesterday — and the 
counsel for the respondent is now ready to proceed with his argument. 
Is it too late now to admit testimony? 

Mr. Dallas, for the application, contended for the admission of the 
testimony — that they had used all due diligence to obtain it; and that 
the witnesses had been prevented by the act of God from reaching 
this place in time for examination in the usual way. The snow storm 
on the mountain had been so great as to totally prohibit the progress 
of the stage, or the witnesses would have been here in time yesterday 
morning. Under these circumstances, he had no doubt but that the 
witnesses ought to be heard. 

M' 'Candless, contra. — The admission of the testimony now, will be 
not only in violation of all the usual rules of proceedings in civil as 
well as criminal cases, but in actual violation of the rights of the res- 
pondent. Even suppose he is a slave, (which is utterly denied,) he 



24 

certainly has some rights in Pennsylvania, being now here under the 
jurisdiction of her laws, and, in fact, the forms of those laws must be 
strictly pursued to adjudicate his case. When are we to stop with 
the admission of evidence? To-day? to-morrow? or next day? When- 
ever the party finds his testimony deficient in a certain point, he asks 
the privilege of calling witnesses as to that point. If another defect 
is discovered, then he is to have another witness called up as to that 
point, and so on ad infinitum, There is to be no stopping place. 
How are we to rebut this testimony? the discussion will be intermina- 
ble, besides outraging all the rules of law that I know of, as to inves- 
tigations of this sort. It is giving to the master, who is rich, and at 
liberty, an advantage overwhelming against one who is poor and pen- 
niless, and in confinement. I insist upon it, that the common law 
rules of proceedings, as to trials at bar, so far as relates to the ad- 
mission of testimony, must be observed. The cause of humanity and 
personal liberty demands that those rules should be strictly and im- 
partially pursued. The testimony now offered comes too late. It 
cannot be heard without violating the rules of law, and the rights of 
the respondent. 

Mr. Dallas, in reply. — The testimony offered is in time — because 
we have shown, to the satisfaction of the judge, that we have used all 
due diligence to obtain it — and that, but for the act of God, it would 
have been here in time, in the regular course of the enquiry, and be- 
fore the testimony had been closed yesterday afternoon. Why should 
it be now rejected? This is not a trial at bar — but a judicial enquiry, 
instituted under a particular act of assembly, for a specific purpose, 
in order to satisfy the conscience of the judge, whether he is> from 
all the testimony, authorized to grant a certificate of removal or not. 
It lies with him to say what testimony shall be admitted or rejected, 
and at what stage of the enquiry new evidence shall be admitted. It 
is not like a case of horn. rep. in any of its features. The proceed- 
ings, in such cases as the present, are sui generis — for a particular 
class of cases described in the act of assembly, and applicable to no 
other. The affidavits, as to the facts, are net disputed — they cannot 
be disputed — they are positive, and not of a doubtful nature. Addi- 
tional proof may be laid before the judge, I take it, at any time, by 
either party, before the actual signing of the certificate, or the order 
of discharge. The usual rules as to proceedings on trials at bar are 
not to be observed. Here the decision of the judge is final — there 
can be no motion for a new trial — a new hearing — an appeal, or writ 
of error — and it would be doing manifest injustice to the claimant to 
reject the species of testimony offered now, or at any stage of the en- 
quiry. If it were a case at bar, and a verdict was given against us, 
upon the production of these facts before the court, a new trial would 
be granted, as a matter of course. Here we can have no relief of 
the kind — which circumstance, alone, shows - conclusively, to my 
mind, that the testimony ought to be admitted. 



25 

Mr. Hamilton added a few words in reply, principally enforcing 
the doctrine and positions of his colleague, Mr. RVCandless, and 
cited some cases from 1 Penn'a PracU 

The Recorder said — I do not think that in the enquiry before us 
we are to be governed by the rules of trials at bar. I consider this as a 
legal enquiry, to be conducted under the special provisions of the act 
of assembly, for a particular purpose — to enforce, or rather give legal 
operation to the provisions of the constitution of the U. S., and the 
acts of congress relative to this species of property. The party 
claiming will be held to strict proof — no latitude of construction will 
be allowed. If he is to be held to strict legal proof, to enable him 
to make out his claim to the " labour and service of the fugitive," it 
certainly would be wrong, in any stage of the enquiry, to deprive 
him of the opportunity of presenting such legal proof. Here he has 
shown that he has used all due diligence; and but for the act of God, 
the stoppage of the stage by a violent snow storm on the Allegheny 
mountain, his witnesses now offered would have been here yesterday, 
before his counsel commenced his address. Under these circum- 
stances, I think it would be unjust to refuse the admission of the tes- 
timony. But, as I shall admit it, if there is any allegation on the 
other side, of the want of time to procure further testimony, to con- 
tradict, rebut, or explain, a reasonable time will, of course, be 
granted. — Let the witnesses be sworn. 

Samuel Sterling, sworn on his voir dire. — I am not interested in 
this case: I expect to receive something from Mr. Drury for my ser* 
vices and loss of time in coming out here, at his request. — I have no 
idea of the amount I am to receive. I don't expect to receive the 
fourth part of one hundred dollars; no private offer has been made to 
me of compensation, by Mr. Drury, or any other person for him. I 
do not know that I shall receive any thing above my pay as a witness 
and travelling expenses. I came here to identify the boy, at the re- 
quest of Mr. Drury, who is my neighbour — to accommodate him, he 
not being able to attend himself. I expect to receive as much if the 
boy is discharged as if he is remanded. I am not, directly or indi- 
rectly, interested in the event of the decision of this case, one way or 
the other. 

Objected to by the respondent's counsel, on account of interest. 
Objection overruled; and 

Samuel Sterling, sworn in chief. — Says he lives about five miles 
below Wiliiamsport, Maryland, and is a neighbour to Wm. C. Drury. 
I have known this boy, Charles Brown, for about 8 or 10 years past; 
8 at least. I know him to belong to Mr. Drury, as his slave. He 
ran away, or left there two years ago last 8th or 9th of June. I know 
his parents; they belong to Mr. Drury: the boy lived in Mr. Drury 1 * 
family in 1832. I saw him frequently there, sometimes as much as 
two or three times a day. I have no doubt about this being the same 
boy — I have seen him often in company with Mr. Drury; he called 

4 



Mr. Drury master William. His father, mother, brothers and sisters, 
ten or twelve of them, all live with Mr. Drury, and belong to him as 
slaves. At home he worked on the farm, and was a sort of a me- 
chanic. I can't say whether he went off on foot or on horseback. 
(Witness reads the printed advertisement.) This is the same boy 
mentioned in this advertisement. He is, I suppose, now upwards of 
20 years old. Cross examined. — I know Mr. Edward Fitzpatrick; 
but have not been intimate with him. I own slaves myself. Mr. 
D?'ury gave me money to come out here, to pay my expenses. I 
suppose Mr. Drury is 40 years of age. His father died about 14 or 
15 years ago. He has no brothers or sisters. His brother died some 
years ago, but his mother is alive, and lives with him. He is an un- 
married man. I have known Mr. Drury personally about ten years; 
ever since I have lived neighbour to him. I never missed Charles 
from his master's house and farm until he went off altogether, in June, 
1832. Don't know whether he went off with a horse, or on foot. I 
am to get no portion of the reward. 

William Freaner, stcorn on his voir dire. — I am a constable, and 
live at Hagerstown, Maryland. I expect to be paid for my services 
for coming out here, to take the boy back, if he is ordered back. I 
shall get as much from Mr. Drury, I suppose, for my services, if he 
is discharged as if he is remanded, I received, when starting, $50, 
and Mr. Stirling $100, to pay expenses here, and on the road going 
and returning. I am not to get any part of the reward. That, I 
suppose, is to be paid to some person here. [Power of attorney from 
W. C. Drury to Wm. Freaner, the witness, produced, dated 19th 
June, 1832. A true copy of the same as that produced by Edward 
Fitzpatrick.] Upon the oath I have taken, I say I am not directly or 
indirectly interested in the decision of this case — and that I shall re- 
ceive the same compensation for my services from Mr. Drury, if the 
boy is discharged, as if he is remanded. 

William Freaner, sicorn in chief. — I recognize this black boy; but 
have no personal acquaintance with him, further than seeing him 
backward and forward about the store in Hagerstown, when Mr. 
Drury and Mr. Fitzpatrick were in partnership. I think this is the 
same boy. I don't know his name. I don't know whether he is a 
slave or not, or a servant, any further than seeing him about the store, 
and supposing him to be so; and hearing Mr. Drmy and his family 
always so call him. The fellow knows me well enough, but just now 
refuses to recognize me. 

Cross examined. — Shortly after Charles ran off, in June, 1832, 
Mr. Drury gave me this power of attorney, and a number of copies 
of this advertisement, in order that I might endeavour to apprehend 
him, if he came in my way in the coui-se of business. Mr. Drury is 
a highly respectable gentleman, of Washington county, Maryland; 
well known in Hagerstown, Williamsport, and Baltimore. I know 
Otho H. Williams, the clerk of Washington county court, and judge 



Jno. Buchanan, and have seen them both write, and this is their hand- 
writing; and this is the seal of Washington county court, Maryland. 
The power of attorney from Mr. Drury to Mr. Fitzpatrick is exactly 
like the one from Mr. Drury to me, except that my name is filled in 
the blank by Mr. Drury himself — and the name of Edward Fitzpa- 
trick is filled in his own hand-writing. I have known Mr. Edward 
Fitzpatrick for several years past, before he removed from Hagers- 
town. He is a respectable man, and much liked there. T never heard 
any thing against him. 

Isaac Whitaker sworn. — I know nothing about this boy, Charles 
Brown, except that he worked on the farm at my uncle Aaron Whit- 
aker's. I went to work at Cochran's mill, according to my account 
book, on the 8th of May, 1832. About this time I saw him going 
backwards and forwards to the house of some black people that lived 
on the other side of the river. I saw him passing along as we were 
working at the mill. He worked for Mr. West, I think, before this, 
for some time. Mr. West told me so, and so he did himself. He 
worked for West to the amount of a rifle gun. I saw the gun; it 
was worth about $15. The hire of such a man as Charles per week, 
in our neighbourhood, is at about from 7 to 9 dollars per month, and 
found. I never heard him say where he came from, but always took 
him to be a freeman. Joseph West told me he believed lie was free. 

Testimony closed on both sides. 

Mr. Hamilton, for the deft. — The 3d sect, of the act of the 25th 
of March, 1826, (Purdon's Dig. 655,) must be taken in connexion 
with the 4th sect. It is necessary, when we wish to give a legal con- 
struction to the initiatory clause — " when a person held to labour or 
service, &c. the person to whom such labour or service is due," &c, 
that we know, in the first place, how and by what title such person is 
held, and by what means, and by what authority such service is due, 
and claimed as a matter of right — and this is plainly the intention of 
the legislature: because the 4th sect, says, " that the warrant authori- 
zed by the 3d sect, shall not issue on the oath of the agent, &c, un- 
less the said agent or attorney shall, in addition to his own oath, pro- 
duce the affidavit of the claimant of the fugitive, taken before, and 
certified, &c, which affidavit shall state the said claimant's title to 
the service of such fugitive, and also the name, age, and description 
of the person of such fugitive." — This act is in favour of liberty— 
and must be strictly construed. The master must be held strietlv to 
a compliance with all its provisions. Now, what are the facts of this 
case? What evidence of title has the master set forth in his affidavit 
annexed to the power of attorney sent by him to Fitzpatrick? The 
testimony discloses the fact, that the father of William C. Drury, the 
present claimant, was the owner of a family of slaves, ten or twelve 
in number, of which this boy, Charles Brown, was one: that he died 

some 14 or 15 years ago, leaving two sons and a widow — one of the 

4* 



28 

gons, Isaac, (I believe the father's name was Enoch,) it appears, died 
several years after the father, unmarried, and without issue: that the 
widow, and mother of Drury is still alive, living with her son. It is 
not stated whether the father died intestate, or that he made a will; 
or how, or in what manner he disposed of his real and personal estate. 
We are, therefore, left entirely in the dark as to this matter, and in a 
state of uncertainty as to " the title to the service and labour" of this 
fugitive, as claimed by Mr. Drury, if he be a slave and a fugitive, 
which we deny. But it is said, that under these circumstances, the 
presumption is, that the son is the heir of his father — and the slaves 
having lived in the family of Mr. Drury ever since the death of his 
father, they are now his property. We say no. Presumption here 
will not do. In a case like this, all presumptions are to be favourable 
to the boy — and a presumption of title will not do. The affidavit 
must state the claimant's title. It does not do so. We have no evi- 
dence of how the father disposed of his estate — the strong presump- 
tion is, that he would not (even if he made a will,) bequeath the whole 
to his son W. C. Drury, to the exclusion of his widow and his other 
son. It is not stated whether Isaac (the brother of W. C. Drury,) 
died intestate or not. We are asked to presume he did — and we are 
asked to presume that the widow was cut off by her husband penni- 
less; and that the whole estate of the father went to Wm. C. Drury. 
This is an absurd presumption, to be sure — but so it is — a presumption 
against all reason and common sense. If the father died intestate, 
we know that Wm. C. Drury is not exclusively entitled to " the labour 
and services" of this boy, by the laws of Maryland; unless he has 
acquired the title since the death of his father. Therefore, we say 
the claimant to this boy has shewn no title; and the claimant must 
satisfy the judge, by legal proof of his title, before he can stir a step 
further. In Maryland a parol gift of a slave is not good — it must be 
reduced to writing, and placed on record. 4 Cranch's Rep. 400, per 
C. J. Marshall. Any man may swear that he is entitled to " the 
service and labour" of another — but we are not bound to believe him, 
unless in his oath he sets forth his title to such labour and service. 
In Maryland the registry of slaves is as imperative a part of the 
duty of the owner, as is the recording of a deed for real estate in 
Pennsylvania. And this is for the protection of freemen. There are 
hundreds, yes, thousands of free negroes in Maryland — and this act 
of registry is to protect them in the peaceable enjoyment of their lib- 
erty and civil rights. The doctrine contended for here, would jeopar- 
dize the liberty of every free negro in Maryland. If a man is to be 
handed over as a slave to any one who is hardy enough to swear that 
he is entitled to his " labour and service," what security have we for 
personal liberty? This is the reason why the claimant must set forth 
Ms title to the labour and service of such negro. Without docu- 
mentary proof, or a title set forth on oath, Wm. C. Drury has no 
legal claim here. He has produced none; nor set forth any in his 



29 

affidavit. The presumption, in place of being in his favour, shall be 
against him — because the law being in favour of liberty, shall be 
strictly construed. 

But we have evidence of the declaration of the father and mother 
of the boy, (we are told), who told Mr. Fitzpatrick " that he was a 
slave." This sort of evidence is illegal and improper, and ought not 
to have been admitted. Hearsay evidence is no evidence at all, and 
should not have been admitted. Again, the boy lived with Mr. Drury, 
and called him "Master William," — a distinction which, if it shows 
any thing, shows that he had some other master, and that he was 
always considered as a slave there. Now, if Mr. William C. Drury 
had, on oath, set out his. title to the labour and services of this boy, 
Charles Brown, it is possible that such testimony as this might have 
been legally admissible, to support the title thus set out — but not 
otherwise, upon any principle of law that I know of. We are told 
this is an anomalous proceeding, under the act of congress, and an 
act of assembly. So it is. But that is no reason why the ordinary 
rules of evidence should be broken down, and trodden under foot. 
Neither the testimony of Fitzpatrick, Sterling, or Freaner, help to 
bolster up the alledged title of W. C. Drury to the services of this 
boy, Charles Brown. It is all hearsay. No one has proved that he 
ever heard Charles Brown acknowledge that he was the slave of 
Wm. C. Drury. The hearsay evidence of others is worth nothing. 
Presumption won't do. There must be strict legal proof. For the 
reasons of this see the preamble to the act of the 1st of March, 1780; 
1 Dallas, 838; 1 Smith, 492; Purdon, 648 — : and see also 7 Cranch, 
290, and 5 Term Rep. 121. I shall leave my colleague to comment 
on the evidence produced by us to negative the claim of Wm. C. 
Drury to this boy's services — all of which, in my opinion, goes to 
prove that he has, for many years, passed as a freeman, without being 
claimed by any one. The whole testimony is decidedly in the boy's 
favour. 

Now, as to the sufficiency of this power of attorney. It was ac- 
knowledged in blank on the 19th of June, 1832, sent by Mr. Wm. 
C. Drury by mail to E. Fitzpatrick a few days since, and the blank 
filled by him with his own name. A blank deed is no deed at all. 
See 3 Yeates, 392; 4 Term Rep. 320; 2 Henry Black, 141; 4 
Cranch, 160; ABinn, 1; 10 S. 6f R., Babb v. Clemson. All these 
authorities go to show that the acknowledgment of a deed in blank is 
void. The whole run of authorities, from the earliest times, are so. 
It would be absurd, indeed, if it were otherwise — and would open a 
door for the admission of every species of fraud. No title having 
been set forth or proved, what becomes then of the master's claim? 
It vanishes, like " the baseless fabric of a vision." There is no 
legal claim — no legal agent, and the boy ought to be discharged. 
As to the agency, it is clear there is none. The proceedings are 
void from the beginning. See 1 Livermore on Agency, pp. 36 & 67; 



30 

7 Crunch, 295; 9 Johnston's Rep. 67. — After Mr. Hamilton had 
concluded his argument, 

The hearing was then adjourned till to-morrow morning, at 9 o'clock, 
A.M. 



Wednesday, February 4th, 1835. 

The hearing being about to be resumed, in consequence of the sit- 
ting of the district court, and the assembling of two public conven- 
tions, the court house was fully occupied — and this hearing being to 
be had in the court house, and in no other place, the same was ad- 
journed over until Thursday morning next, at 9 o'clock, A. M. 



Thursday, February 5th, 1835. Hearing resumed. 

Mr. M'Candless, for the deft. — In earnestly pressing this case on 
your attention, I am actuated by a consciousness that it involves 
points of law well worthy of our most serious consideration; and I 
pray for it that examination and deliberation which its importance de- 
mands. It is of lasting importance to the respondent. To him it is 
of all-absorbing interest, next only to that of a question of life or 
death — it is, whether he shall remain free, enjoying all the blessings, 
rights, and privileges of a freeman, or be returned to a never-ending 
state of bondage, with his chains riveted upon him closer than ever, 
and the lash of the slave-driver more cruelly inflicted than he him 
self is capable of fancying now; whilst his eye is extended, and his 
heart beating, anxious for your decision of his case. That that de- 
cision will be a fair and impartial one, governed by the laws, and the 
dictates of humanity, I doubt not — and that the law, as well as the 
principles of humanity and civil liberty are in his favour, I have as 
little doubt. We ask for justice, administered in the spirit of Penn- 
sylvania humanity, and not according to the law of the soul-drivers 
of the south. 

Slavery once existed in Pennsylvania; but the principles of the rev- 
olution embued our fathers with a hatred against tyranny and oppres- 
sion, of every sort and degree — and they had no sooner thrown off 
their own shackles, than they felt it their bounden duty, having ac- 
complished their own emancipation, to strike the fetters from the 
slave — conscious that the language of the immortal Declaration of 
Independence, "that all men are born free and equal," should not, as 
regarded the patriots of Pennsylvania, be a libel on their revolution- 
ary principles, and upon their moral integrity, as well as a stain 
upon the Declaration of Independence itself. 

All laws, respecting the liberty of the person, are to be strictly 
construed in favour of liberty and civil rights. In the language of our 
own supreme court, in 1 Waifs Rep. 156, he who claims, under 
the constitution and laws of the country, " to hold the person of an- 



3i 

other in servitude," shall be held to the strictest proof of his title so 
to do. No favour shall be shown — no leaning towards the possibility 
or probability of the soundness of his claim or title — but to positive 
and direct legal evidence of such title, clear of all doubts, or suspi- 
cions of any kind. 

It is most cheerfully admitted — indeed, when have we undertaken 
to deny? — that the constitution of the United States, and the acts of 
congress made in pursuance thereof, are the supreme law of the 
land. But where acts of congress confer on the judges and magis- 
strates of Pennsylvania the exercise of a particular jurisdiction, the 
legislature of Pennsylvania have the power to declare how, and in 
what manner, those services shall be discharged. In other words, 
they have, unquestionably, the power and authority to regulate the 
course which shall be pursued by their own magistrates and judges 
when they are called upon to act, in their official capacities, under 
the acts of congress. The act of congress of the 12th of February, 
1793, is the one which gives jurisdiction of cases like the present to 
the judges and magistrates of Pennsylvania. But the act of assem- 
bly of the 25th of March, 1826, is the one which regulates their con- 
duct, and prescribes their duties, under severe penalties, when they 
are properly called on to enforce the provisions of the act of con- 
gress. Whatever may be said, 1 still think that this case can be con- 
sidered in no other light than as one of a quasi-criminal character — 
and that the law, and all the rules of the law applicable to it, must 
be construed in the strictest manner in favour of liberty. The very 
relationship which is pretended here, that of master and slave, calls 
loudly for that strictness of construction. — The master, (if he be the 
master in this case, which is denied by us, in every way,) rich and 
powerful — the slave poor, naked, and in bondage, without the means 
of employing counsel, ignorant of his rights, and dependant on the 
charity of others to defend himself; ought he not to be heard with 
rather a prejudice in his favour? 

In examining this question, I shall commence with an enquiry as 
to whether the power of attorney, here exhibited, from William C. 
Drury, the alledged master, to Edward Fitzpatrick, is a legal and 
valid power or not — such a one as is contemplated by the true spirit 
and meaning of the act of the 25th of March, 1826. In other words, 
is Fitzpatrick the agent and attorney of Drury, according to law, or 
not? It appears that this power was acknowledged, in blank, on the 
19th of June, 1832, and was only received here a few days since, 
in a letter, by Fitzpatrick, from Drury, who filled the blank with his 
own name, and commenced the proceedings against this black boy, 
before alderman Scully, in his capacity of agent and attorney in fact 
for Drury, under the provisions of the act of the 25th of March, 
1826. Is such a power of attorney, so acknowledged, in blank, 
nearly three years ago, a proper instrument to deprive the respondent 
of hia liberty, and return him back to a state of perpetual bondage, 



32 

particularly when, as we have conclusively shown, the claimant has 
not set forth any title to the " labour and service" of the respondent? 
A deed acknowledged in blank is void to all intents and purposes, and 
no filling of it up after its acknowledgment can make it good. The 
whole run of authorities are to this effect, but I particularly refer to 
10 Coke's Rep. p. 92, b. 15; John's Rep. 193; 7 Cowan's Rep. 71; 

3 Yeates, 392; 4 Term Rep. 320; 2 Hen. Black, 141; 14 S. $ R.; 

4 Cranch, 160, and 4 Binn. 1. All these go to show that the ac- 
knowledgment of a deed in blank is void, and of no effect; and a 
power of attorney is a deed, under seal, to all intents and purposes; 
and if altered, or interlined, in any particular or material place or 
places, it is most clearly deprived of its original sanctity as an offi- 
cial instrument. 

Besides, the party making it may be dead, as well as the justice, 
the clerk of the court, and the judge of the district; and according 
to all the rules of evidence the agent is incompetent to prove his own 
authority, or to testify, in a case like this, in the claimant's place. 
1 Livermore on Agency, 36, 37, and 67. A general agency, to be 
sure, may be constituted by parol, or by a simple letter, without seal, 
or acknowledgment of any kind; but this is a special agency, re- 
quired under a particular act of assembly, and must be in writing, 
under seal, and acknowledged, as all deeds are required to be ac- 
knowledged, previous to being recorded by the proper officer. The 
power to appoint such a special agent should be by deed also; and an 
agent who undertakes to act for another, with respect to real estate, 
without a suitable power of attorney, accompanied by all the usual 
formalities, will find all his acts void. This point was solemnly de- 
cided here, at the last term of the supreme court, in the case of Por- 
ter's heirs, v. Steioart, et al., in which Mr. Brackenridge acted as 
agent, and undertook to lease the property, without being duly con- 
stituted as an agent or attorney by deed. The law has always been 
so, and it is too clear to admit of any dispute or doubt. 

Again, the production of a Seconal power of attorney here, from 
Mr. Drury to Mr. Freaner, is a revocation of the first power, to 
Fitzpatrick, under which we are now acting, and renders such first 
power entirely null and void. Are the declarations of Freaner and 
Sterling evidence, being no more than the parol declaration of Drury 
himself to them, as to his title to the labour and services of the re- 
spondent? Both Freaner and Sterling, as well as Fitzpatrick, are in- 
terested witnesses, and their testimony should not have been admitted 
— because it is specially provided, in the last clause of the 6th sect, 
of the act of 25th of March, 1826, " That the oath of the owner or 
owners, or other persons interested, shall in no wise be received in 
evidence before the judge, on the hearing of the case." The sort of 
interest acknowledged by all three of these witnesses assuredly goes 
to their credibility, if not to their competency; and in a case of so 
much doubt as the present, with respect to the identity of the alledged 



33 

slave, the respondent, their testimony ought not to be relied on. I 
allude particularly to the testimony of Mr. Whitaker, and of Lewis, 
the black man, from Chambersburgh, and of the two Rosses, father 
and son, lately from Old Town, Maryland, who are respectable co- 
loured men, and are totally disinterested. If their testimony is to be 
credited, this respondent is certainly not the same Charles Brown that 
Mr. Drury describes in his affidavit and the power of attorney now before 
us. There may be, for aught we know, a hundred black men, free- 
men too, of the name of Charles Brown — precisely as there are 
hundreds of free white men of the name of John Smith, or any other 
name as common, and without a particular addition. 

So much, sir, with regard to the identity of the respondent, which has 
not been clearly made out by the claimant, his counsel, or his witnesses: 
nor has he shown by one particle of testimony that he is, according to 
the laws of Maryland, entitled to the labour and services of the res- 
pondent. Surely it will not be pretended by the counsel on the other 
side, that it is not necessary for the alledged master to show, by some 
sort of proof, that the fugitive is his property, and that he is entitled 
by the laws of his own state to hold him in bondage. In Maryland, 
by its laws, in case of a disputed title to the labour and services of a 
slave, the master must prove his title in the same manner that he 
would be compelled to prove his title to any other species of personal 
property. 2 Gill Sp Johns. Rep. 330 — 2; 1 Harris Sf GilVs Rep. 
259. The onus probandi is upon the claimant; and he must show, 
by testimony the most unequivocal, that he has a title to the labour and 
services of the fugitive. He has exhibited no deed, registry, bill of 
sale, or other documentary evidence of title; nothing, absolutely no- 
thing, but the unsupported tale of Mr. Edward Fitzpatrick; who, for- 
getting the soil from whence he came, and the noble and generous 
feelings which stimulate the native of Ireland to acts of benevolence 
and humanity, has fallen from his high estate, down to an association 
with the inflicter of the slave lash and bastinado. Although he avers that 
he has no interest, directly or indirectly, in the result of this investiga- 
tion, other than friendship for Mr. Drury, yet his anxiety to testify, 
and the intense solicitude manifested by him during the progress of the 
trial, stamp him with the impress of the owner, and are of themselves 
sufficient to render him incompetent, or at least seriously to affect his 
credibility. Is it upon testimony like this that you would rivet manacles 
upon the limbs of this unfortunate being, and consign him to the 
house of bondage? I think not. You are a Pennsylvania judge, ad- 
ministering Pennsylvania law, in the spirit of Pennsylvania freedom. 

The learned gentleman who is to reply has referred me to a case in 
7 Cranch, decided by chief justice Marshall, to show the disposition 
evinced by the highest tribunal of the country relative to what the op- 
posite counsel are pleased to term this description of property. For 
the opinions of that illustrious patriot and jurist, I am proud to en- 
tertain the most profound respect; and I have no doubt, that long after 

5 



34 

this union and its government shall have mouldered into ruins, that 
its jurisprudence, as expounded by the matchless intellect of that 
learned and venerable judge, will remain an imperishable monument 
of its wisdom and greatness. But the case referred to is not analo- 
gous to this: it was not the case of a fugitive, nor governed by the 
same rules of law, but arising under the peculiar statutes of a slave 
state. There, all blacks are presumed to be slaves, until proved free. 
Here, the doctrine is the very reverse. The moment a slave touches the 
soil of Pennsylvania he is free, until he is proved to be a bondman. 

Failing both in parol testimony and documentary evidence to prove 
title to this alledged fugitive, they resort to his own declarations. 
The injustice, not to say impropriety, of this mode of proceeding, 
will appear to your honor at the first glance. In many of their po- 
sitions they profess to be governed by the lex loci — the law of Mary- 
land. In that state, no black is permitted to give evidence in a court 
of justice, in any case whatever; yet, to answer their purposes, they 
divest him of his alledged character as a slave, put upon him the robes 
of a freeman, place him in the situation of a competent witness, and 
take his testimony as the corner stone of their pretended title to himself! 
Still they insist he is a slave, and subject to all the deprivations in- 
cident to slavery. Is this consistency? Is it common justice? 

Not having shown, according to the laws of Maryland, that Wm. 
C. Drury is entitled to the labour and services of this respondent, 
under the act of congress, and our act of assembly, he must be dis- 
charged from custody. All reasonable presumption is against the 
pretended ownership of Mr. Drury; his testimony is incompetent; his 
own oath is not to be received in the hearing; and his documents are 
void, and of no binding effect; and the whole opinion of the Supreme 
Court of Pennsylvania, as delivered by judge Rogers, in 1 Watt's 
Rep. 156, goes to show, that it is the settled policy of our laws, that 
all their provisions should be strictly pursued in favour of liberty; and 
that those who claim to hold their fellow beings in bondage shall be 
held to strict proof of their right so to do. 

In concluding this argument, permit me to say, that your duty is 
one of great responsibility. This case cannot be reviewed before a 
superior jurisdiction: your decision is conclusive. We ask not that 
feeling shall enter into your deliberations; let the scales of justice be 
equally poised, and the law, as it exists in Pennsylvania, be the basis 
cf your final determination. You are removed from the noxious ex- 
halations emanating from slave states, and your opinion cannot be 
warped by prejudice when sitting in solemn judgment upon the liberty 
of a fellow being. We cannot doubt the result in your dispensation 
of the law. You will send him forth free, like the naked truth of his 
own cause, without a single bond to impede his flight. 

Mr. Dallas, in reply to Mr. M'Candless, and in conclusion for 
the master, Wm. C. Drury, said, that the zeal, earnestness, and 
ability with which the last counsel, who had preceded him, had pressed 



35 

this case on the consideration of the Recorder, would induce him to 
go more into detail, in the examination of the doctrine put forth, than 
he would otherwise have thought it his duty to do — and he did not 
despair of being able to convince the Recorder, as well as the learned 
counsel himself, that the several positions assumed by him, were 
most clearly fallacious, and without any reasonable foundation in law 
or in fact. 

As to the law of the case, Mr. Dallas said, it was clear that the 
act of congress, of the 12th of February, 1793, passed in pursuance 
of the provisions of the 3d clause of the 4th article of the constitution 
of the U. States, (lngersolVs Dig. p. 336,) was to govern the case: 
because the constitution of the U. States, and all laws passed in pur- 
suance thereof, were the paramount law of the land, and could not be 
controlled by any act or acts of the Pennsylvania legislature. This 
constitutional provision, as well as the act of congress, passed nearly 
forty-two years ago, have both received a construction by our own 
supreme court, and by some of the highest tribunals of the country, 
and it is now too late to impugn their decisions. Mr. Dallas referred 
to the cases in 2 S. <$• R. 306; 3 S. <$■ R. 4; 5 S. $ R. 62; 1 Wash. 
C. C. Rep. 500, and 2 Pick. Mass. Rep. 11. All these decisions 
went most clearly to enforce the rights of masters to their slave prop- 
erty, when escaping from their custody. The framers of the consti- 
tution could not have used stronger language than they have done on 
this subject: — " No person held to service or labour, in one state, un- 
der the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of 
any latv, or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or 
labour, but shall be delivered up, on the claim of the party to whom 
such service or labour may be due." 

When we come carefully to examine this constitutional provision, 
and the act of congress of the 12th of February, 1793, passed in 
pursuance thereof, and bear in mind that " the citizens of each state, 
(according to the provisions of the first clause of the said 2d sect, of 
the 4th article of the const, of the U. States,) are entitled to all the privi- 
leges and immunities of citizens of the several states," we cannot 
fail of being convinced that no impediment can properly be thrown 
in the way of the master of a fugitive slave, to recover his property, 
in a summary and speedy manner, by any act of a state legislature, 
at variance in its provisions with the constitution of the U. States and 
the acts of congress on this subject. See 4th Johns. Chan. Rep. 
430. And so far has this doctrine been carried, that in a neighbour- 
ing state it has been solemnly decided, that even free negroes and 
mulattoes are not citizens within the true meaning of the consti- 
tution of the U. States. 1 Litt. Rep. 333. So that it is, indeed, rather 
a doubtful case, whether the manumitted negroes and mulattoes, who 
have been examined here, in favour of the respondent, are entitled to 
be heard or not. — But I do not press this point on the attention of the 
Recorder, because I think I shall be able clearly to show, that those 

5* 



36 

witnesses are utterly unworthy of belief, from the gross contradic- 
tions and inconsistencies in their testimony. 

If we take up the act of congress of the 12th of February, 1798, 
without reference to our act of assembly of the 25th of March, 1826, 
we do not see that any written power of attorney is necessary from 
the claimant at all — and under it his agent may as well he constituted by 
parol, as any other agent may be, by a third person, with regard to per- 
sonal property and private dealings of any kind. 1 Livermore on 
Agency, 36. If the act of congress does not require it, how, I would 
ask, can an act of assembly be brought in to control the master of 
the fugitive slave, or his agent or attorney? For all the purposes of 
public justice, the agent or attorney may be as well constituted by 
parol, by a simple letter or authority, as by deed — because the 
power of attorney contemplated to be produced in writing, by the 
agent or attorney, to the judge or alderman issuing his warrant, ac- 
cording to the special directions of the 3d sect, of the act of the 25th of 
March, 1826, having satisfied that particular purpose, is of no further 
use. It is only to authorize the issuing of the warrant of apprehen- 
sion, in the first instance, that such power is at all required; and no 
such power, with all the solemnities of a deed for real estate about it, 
is contemplated by either the constitution of the U. States, or the act 
of congress, the supreme law of the land, as applicable to all cases 
like the present. See 7 Crunch's Rep. 295. 

This is a question with regard to personal property, in which it is 
of no more use to constitute an agent or attorney by deed, for all the 
purposes of public justice, than it is to constitute an agent by deed to 
recover a horse, a cow, or any other species of personal property, 
capable of being identified by the owner residing in another state or 
territory. All the cases cited by the counsel for the respondent, on 
this subject, particularly those from 2 Gill fy Johns. 330, and 1 
Harris <fy Gill, 259, relate to the transfer of real estate, and not to 
personal property. And so was the case of Porter 's heirs, decided 
at the last session of our supreme court, under our statute of frauds 
and perjuries, of the 21st of March, 1772, (almost 20 years before 
the formation of the present constitution of Pennsylvania,)providing that 
parol leases of lands, &c», for a longer term than three years shall be 
void and fraudulent. Mr. Brackenridge had no power from the heirs 
of Porter to make the leases in this case, and they were, of course, 
void — he could not prove his authority, and the case was very pro- 
perly decided against the lessees. 1 Dallas, 640; 2 Bioren, 65; 1 
Smith, 389; Pin-don's Dig. 681. And as to the true construction of 
this act of assembly, and all similar acts, see 2 Caines'' Rep. 61, and 
14 S. % R. 305. 

It is clear, from all the cases cited by the respondent's counsel, 
that in Maryland no bill of sale or deed is necessary to the legal 
transfer of this particular species of personal property. None has 
been, nor do I believe any can be shown. In all cases like the pre- 



37 

sent, the judge or Recorder hearing the case will not be astute in find- 
ing unnecessary objections to the legality of the claimant's title to the 
labour and services of his fugitive slave. If there were no deed or 
power of attorney at all, I should consider the deed of Mr. Drury 
to Mr. Edward Fitzpatrick, of the 19th of January, 1835, as suffi- 
ciently constituting him his agent, in writing, according to the true in- 
tent and meaning of the act of assembly. As to the extreme nicety 
of distinction between the words " duly constituted," and " duly and 
legally" constituted, I do not consider it at all necessary to the jus- 
tice of the case, or to its final decision by the Recorder. The word 
duly has an express and definite meaning, well understood, as pro- 
perly, fitly, suitably, &c. See Webster's Diet, for its true mean- 
ing — among which is certainly not the word legally. But the power 
of attorney and the letter must be taken together, and when so taken, 
all doubt on the subject must vanish, as to the connection of the agency, 
and the validity of the power of attorney, and the affidavit of title 
accompanying it. As to the competency and credibility of the agent, 
it is too late to enquire into that now — the objection was made, both 
to the competency and credibility of the witness, at the proper 
time, by the respondent's counsel, and was overruled by the Recorder, 
for the reasons stated by him. Why, then, shall we be called on to 
re-argue this part of the case? 

One apparently strange conceit has been advanced, that the power 
of attorney from Drury to Freaner is a revocation of the power from 
Drur3" to Fitzpatrick, although such power has never been offered in 
evidence, nor does Mr. Freaner pretend to act under it. I presume that I 
need hardly take up the time of the Recorder to answer this objection. 
It is no revocation, nor is it any part of the case before us. 

Now, with regard to the title of Mr. Drury to the "labour and ser- 
vices" of this fugitive, it is alledged that the title is not properly set 
forth. Mr. Drury, in his affidavit, states that the respondent is "his slave 
for life." What other species of title is necessary to be set forth? 
The circumstances of Mr. Drury's family, and family connections, 
have been dwelt upon, just as if it was actually necessary that Mr. 
Drury should produce a deed for this boy, executed with all the form- 
alities of a deed for his farm, or any other real estate. The absurdity 
of this proposition is evident on the face of it. No such species of 
title is necessary. And when the boy is sent back to his master, he 
may, if he pleases, and believes that he is a freeman and entitled 
to his liberty, commence his suit of horn. rep. against Mr. Drury; but 
not in this state. That point has been decided over and over again. 

Adjourned till 3 o'clock, P. M. 



Thursday afternoon, 3 o'clock, P. M. The hearing of this case 
was further proceeded in, and Mr. Dallas concluded his argument 
as follows; — 



38 

Having disposed of all the legal questions arising in this case, it 
remains only to revert to the facts as they appear in evidence, by the 
testimony on both sides. And here we may once again revert with 
advantage to the case cited from 7 Crancli's Rep. 290, 2d vol of Pe- 
ters' Condensed Reports of the Supreme Court of the United States, 
496, as decided by chief justice Marshall. No person carefully and 
impartially disposed to seek after truth, and arrive at a correct con- 
clusion, can compare the clear, satisfactory, decided, and uncontra- 
dicted, as well as unimpeached testimony of Fitzpatrick, his son, 
and Sterling and Freaner, can doubt for a moment of the identity of 
this boy, Charles Brown, or that he is the slave of Mr. Drury. The 
testimony of the witnesses on the part of the respondent is entirely 
contradictory, and at variance with every thing like the appearance 
of truth. All the coloured people who have been examined con- 
tradict each other materially. In truth, no two of them agree in any 
important fact; and we are fully justified in rejecting their testimony 
altogether. Our case is plain, clear, and without a shadow of doubt; 
and whatever our private feelings may be with regard to slavery, we 
can have very little doubt but that Mr. Drury is, under the constitu- 
tion and laws of the United States, as well as of this state, entitled 
to the possession of his property, and that it would be grossly unjust 
to deprive him of it. 

After Mr. Dallas had concluded his argument, the Recorder having 
been requested to reduce his opinion to writing, by both parties, the 
further hearing of this case was adjourned until Saturday, the 7th of 
Feb. 1835, at three o'clock, P. M. 



Saturday, Feb. 7th, 1835, at 3 o'clock, P. M. the further hear- 
ing of this case was resumed; when the Recorder delivered the fol- 
lowing Opinion: — 

Opinion of the Recorder, in the case of Charles Brown. 

It is acknowledged, on all hands, that this is an important case, de- 
serving of careful examination and deliberation. Considering it so, 
in every point of view, I have carefully weighed the arguments of 
the learned counsel, who have argued the case, with so much zeal 
and ability on both sides, and have given to it that attention which 
its importance to me appears to demand. 

The foundation of the claim of William C. Drury to the labour 
and services of this black boy, Charles Brown, is based upon the 3d 
clause of the 2d section of the 4th article of the constitution of the Uni- 
ted States, which provides, that " no person held to labour or service 
in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in 
consequence of any law or regidation therein, be discharged from 
such service or labour, but shall be delivered up, on the claim of the 
party, to whom such service or labour may be due." This provision 



of the constitution of the United States is enforced by the 3d section 
of the act of congress, passed on the 12th of February, 1793; which 
enacts, " that when a person held to labour in any of the United 
States, or in either of the territories on the north west or south of the 
river Ohio, under the laws thereof, shall escape into any other of the 
said states or territories, the person to whom such labour or service is 
due, his agent or attorney, is hereby empowered to seize or arrest 
such fugitive from labour, and to take him or her before any judge of 
the circuit or district courts of the U. States, residing or being with- 
in the state, or before any magistrate of a county, city, or town cor- 
porate, wherein such seizure or arrest shall be made; and, upon proof, 
to the satisfaction of the said judge or magistrate, either by oral 
testimony or affidavit, taken before or certified by a magistrate of 
any such state or territory, that the person so seized or arrested, 
doth, under the laws of the state or territory from whence he or she 
fled, owe service or labour to the person claiming him or her, it shall 
be the duty of such judge or magistrate to give a certificate thereof 
to such claimant, his agent or attorney, which shall be a sufficient 
warrant for removing the said fugitive from labour, to the state or 
territory from which he or she fled." 

The constitution of the United States, and the laws enacted in pur- 
suance thereof, being the supreme law of the land, the first enquiry 
appears to me to be, as to the enactments which the legislature of Penn- 
sylvania has, from time to time passed, to regulate the duties of her 
judges and magistrates, as to the enforcement of those provisions in 
Pennsylvania. 

From all my enquiries I learn, that it was the uniform practice, 
prior to the passage of the act of the 27th of March, 1820, entitled 
" an act to prevent kidnapping," 7 S7?iifh, 285; Purdon, 652; for the 
master, his agent or attornies, to seize or arrest the alledged fugitive, and 
to carry him or her forthwith before the nearest judge or magistrate for 
examination; and if he or they satisfied such judge or magistrate,by oral 
testimony or affidavit, as prescribed in the act of congress, that they 
were entitled to the services and labour of the fugitive, to grant the 
necessary certificate to such master, his agent or attorney, which 
was conclusive against the slave. This practice was liable to great 
abuse. — It constituted a sort of secret tribunal that cut the fugitive off 
from all chance of having his case properly examined. He might 
be a freeman, and yet the judge or magistrate might be induced, by 
the exparte representations of those having him in custody, to believe 
he was a slave — and he was forthwith remanded to the land of bon- 
dage, without the privilege of a public hearing. To my own know- 
ledge, great abuses were perpetrated under this course of practice — 
some of which were publicly exposed, indeed, when it was too late, 
and when the unfortunate victims of this black spot upon our national 
escutcheon were far beyond the reach of relief. Still, however, the 
practice, bad as it was, was in due conformity with the provisions 



40 

of the law of congress; there being no act of assembly in force, at that 
time, on the subject. To remedy these abuses, however, the act of 
the 27th of March, 1 820, was passed. 

The practice, prior to the passage of this act, was certainly too 
loose, liable to great abuse, and well calculated to rouse the feelings 
of the humane citizens of a non slave-holding state. But, as is too 
often common, in such cases, the legislature, in place of remedying 
the defects of the practice, by the passage of suitable provisions to 
restrain it within the bounds of law and common sense, in such a 
way as to do public justice at once to the master and the slave, went 
to the opposite extreme, and " at one fell swoop" took away the ju- 
risdiction of Pennsylvania magistrates over the subject altogether. 
This they had certainly the power to do — the act of congress, or the 
constitution of the United States, was no restraint or restriction upon 
them. They had full power, at any time, to enlarge or diminish the 
jurisdiction of the judges and justices of Pennsylvania, in such 
manner as they thought proper; and they did exercise it on this sub- 
ject, to the extent I have mentioned, by the provisions of the 3d sect, 
of the act of the 27th of March, 1820. 7 Smith, 285; Purdon, 
652. That the legislature must have felt indignant at the abuse of 
power, by the magistrates and judges under their control is evident 
throughout the provisions of this act. The 3d section, however, 
alone concerns this subject, and it enacts, that " No alderman or jus- 
tice of the peace of this commonwealth shall have jurisdiction, or 
take cognizance of the case of any fugitive from labour from any of 
the United States, or territories, under a certain act of congress, 
passed on the 12th day of February, 1793, entitled, "An act re- 
specting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from their 
masters;" nor shall any alderman or justice of the peace of this 
commonwealth issue or grant any certificate or warrant of removal of 
any such fugitive from labour as aforesaid, upon the application, af- 
fidavit, or testimony of any person or persons whatsoever, under the 
said act of congress, or under any other law, authority, or act or 
acts of the congress of the United States; and if any alderman or 
justice of the peace of this commonwealth shall contravene the pro- 
visions of this act, shall take cognizance or jurisdiction of the case 
of any such fugitive as aforesaid, or shall grant or issue any certifi- 
cate or warrant of removal as aforesaid, then, and in either case, he 
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office, and shall, on con- 
viction thereof, be sentenced to pay, at the discretion of the court, 
any sum, not less than five hundred dollars, nor exceeding one thou- 
sand dollars, the one half to be paid to the party prosecuting for the 
same, and the other half to the use of this commonwealth." 

This enactment threw such difficulty in the way of the slave holders 
of the adjoining state of Maryland as amounted almost, in fact, to 
an act of emancipation itself. The slave walked over the line, and 
the master was obliged, if he apprehended him, to do so without a 



41 

warrant; and this, of itself, appeared to be illegal in Pennsylvania, 
although the act of congress contemplated such a course. The judges 
were often absent, and could not be procured to attend; in short, the 
difficulties towards the masters of fugitive slaves, escaping from Ma- 
ryland into Pennsylvania, became, as they conceived, so great a 
grievance, as to induce them to apply to the legislature for relief. 
They did so in January, 1826, and the legislature of Maryland con- 
sidered the subject of so much importance to their fellow citizens, 
that they appointed a joint committee of their body, consisting of three 
of their most distinguished citizens. (Ezekiel F. Chambers, late a 
senator of the United States, and now one of the judges of the high- 
est court in Maryland, Robert H. Goldsborough, now a member of 
the senate of the United States, and Archibald Lee, a gentleman of 
distinguished reputation,) to proceed to Harrisburgh, " to confer with 
the legislature of Pennsylvania upon the measures best calculated to 
remedy the grievance so sensibly felt by the people of Maryland," 
and which governor Kent assures governor Shultz " is of very serious 
magnitude, and general concern to all holders of slaves." 

On the 2d of February, 1826, the legislative committee of Mary- 
land attended at Harrisburgh, and the proceedings of the legislature 
of that state were communicated by governor Shultz to the legisla- 
ture of Pennsylvania, by special message — and a joint committee of 
both houses was appointed to confer on this subject with the Maryland 
committee. The result of that conference was the passage of the act 
of the 25th of March, 1826, under which we are now acting. It re- 
stores the jurisdiction of the aldermen and justices of the peace, so 
far as to enable them to issue a warrant for the apprehension of any 
fugitive, upon the oath or affirmation of the claimant of the fugitive, 
his or her duly authorized agent or attorney, constituted as such, in 
writing. But after the issuing of such warrant the jurisdiction of 
the alderman or justice is at an end. The form of the warrant is 
given at large — and the act, as well as the wan-ant, directs, that when 
the fugitive is arrested, he shall be brought by the arresting officer 
" before a judge of the court of common pleas, or of the district court, 
as the case may be, of the proper county, or the recorder of a city, so 
that the truth of the matter may be enquired into," &c. 

I am thus particular in noticing this part of the act, because it has 
been seriously contended on the present occasion, that the proceed- 
ings with regard to the arrest of this black boy, Charles Brown, are 
void, ab initio. What are the facts, then, as they appear before us? 
On the 24th of January, 1835, Edward Fitzpatrick appeared before 
Dennis S. Scully, Esq., one of the aldermen in and for the city of 
Pittsburgh, and exhibited to him a power of attorney from Wm. C. 
Drury, constituting him his agent and attorney, to apprehend and se- 
cure his black boy, Charles Brown, a runaway, and a slave for life; 
and at the same time made the following affidavit: — 

6 



" State of Pennsylvania, Allegheny County, 
" City of Pittsburgh, ss: — 

" Before me, an alderman in and for the said city, personally ap- 
pears Edward Fitzpatrick, who, on his solemn oath, saith, that the 
negro boy named Charles Brown, who eloped from William C. Drury, 
of Washington County, in the state of Maryland, and particularly 
described in the affidavit or deposition of the said William C. Drury, 
bearing date the 19th day of June, 1832, is now, to the best of his 
knowledge and belief, in the city of Pittsburgh, aforesaid. That he 
was personally acquainted with the said negro, Charles Brown, and 
knows him to be a slave, as stated in the affidavit or deposition afore- 
said. EDWARD FITZPATRICK. 

Sworn and subscribed before me, } 
this 24th January, 1835. $ 

D. S. Scully, Alderman." 

Upon the exhibition of the power of attorney referred to, (to which 
is attached the deposition of Wm. C. Drury, alluded to,) duly certi- 
fied according to law, the alderman issued the following warrant: — 

" State of Pennsylvania, Allegheny County, 
" City of Pittsburgh, ss: — 

" The commonwealth of Pennsylvania to the sheriff of Allegheny 
count5 r , or any constable of the said city, Greeting: — Whereas, it ap- 
pears by the oath of Edward Fitzpatrick, that a negro boy, who calls 
himself Charles Brown, is held to labour and service to William C. 
Drury, of Washington county, and state of Maryland; and that the 
said negro, Charles Brown, hath escaped from the labour and service 
of the said William C. Drury: You are therefore commanded to ar- 
rest and seize the body of the said negro, called Charles Brown, if 
he be found in your county, or in the city aforesaid, and bring him 
forthwith before a judge of the court of common pleas of the county 
of Allegheny, or the recorder of the said city, so that the truth of the 
matter may be enquired into, and the said negro boy, called Charles 
Brown, be dealt with as the constitution of the United States, and the 
laws of this commonwealth direct. In witness whereof, I, an alder- 
man in and for the said city, do hereunto set my hand and affix my 
seal, at Pittsburgh, this 24th day of January, A. D. 1835. 

D. S. SCULLY, Aid. [seal."] 

Upon this warrant, this negro boy, who calls himself Charles Brown, 
was arrested on Saturday the 24th of January, 1835, by constables 
Reed and Dunshee, and brought, before me, between 8 and 9 o'clock, 
P. M. He underwent a slight examination, in the presence of Mr. 
Fitzpatrick, the agent or attorney of Wm. C. Drury; but as I con- 
ceived it impracticable, at that late hour, to enter upon the hearing, 
he was by me committed to jail for further examination, until Monday 
morning following, at 10 o'clock, A. M., as follows: — 






43 

State of Pennsylvania, Allegheny County, 
" City of Pittsburgh, ss: — 

The commonwealth of Pennsylvania to A. D. Dunshee 
and J. Reed, constables, and to the keeper of the common 
|}j -jail in the said city: — These are to command you, the said 
constables, forthwith to carry and deliver into the custody 
"****" of the said keeper of said jail, the body of Charles Brown, 
charged befoi-e me, the Recorder of the said city, as an absconding 
slave from Win. C. Drury, of Washington county, state of Maryland, 
on the oaths of the said William C. Drury and of Edward Fitzpatrick, 
his agent and attorney, who identifies him as the slave of the said Drury: 
and you, the said keeper, are hereby required to receive the said Charles 
Brown, so claimed as a slave, into your custody, in said jail, and him 
safely keep, until discharged or released by due course of law; and to 
be there kept for further examination. Witness my hand and seal, 
this 24th day of January, A. D. 1835. E. PENTLAND, 

Recorder of Pittsburgh.'''' 

Now, a careful examination of the provisions of the 3d, 4th, and 5th 
sects, of the act of the 25th of March, 1826, will show, that so far, at 
least, they have been strictly pursued. The proceedings are, however, 
asserted to be void from the commencement, on two grounds; 1st, be- 
cause the blank in the power of attorney was filled by Fitzpatrick him- 
self, but a few days since, (in which he is described as late of Wash- 
ington county, state of Maryland, whereas he has been, for a consid- 
erable time past, a citizen of Pittsburgh;) and 2d, because the owner 
or claimant, Drury, hath not, in his affidavit, set forth his title to the 
labour and service of the fugitive, as is positively required by the pro- 
visions of the 5th sect, of the act of assembly. 

As these objections have been pressed upon my consideration in the 
most earnest, zealous, and eloquent manner; and in such a manner, 
too, as to convince me that the counsel have implicit confidence in the 
ground which they have taken, I have carefully considered and exam- 
ined them, with all the lights T have been enabled to obtain, in so short 
a space of time, on the subject. Then we shall proceed to enquire — 

1st. Is Edward Fitzpatrick, under the power of attorney here pro- 
duced, the " duly authorized agent or attorney of Wm. C. Drury, 
constituted in writing," according to the true intent and meaning of 
the 3d sect, of the act of the 25th of March, 1826? 

A careful examination and comparison of the 3d and 4th sects, of 
the act of assembly, wilfclearly show, in my opinion, that the legis- 
lature did not intend that the power of attorney to the agent of the 
claimant, should possess all the solemnities and formalities of a deed, 
under seal, with a formal acknowledgment before a judge or justice, 
with the certificate of a prothonotary or clerk, and the attestation of 
the presiding judge of the court in which the clerk acts, &c. It ap- 
pears to me to be sufficient, that such agent be " duly constituted, as 

6* 



44 

such, in writing" without any other of the formalities contended for. 
But it is said, and pressed with great earnestness, and, indeed, inge- 
nuity and learning, that duly means " legally, and according to law;" 
and that, therefore, the usual formalities attendant upon the execution 
and delivery of a deed, under seal, must be observed to render the 
power operative in law. It is true, that in various acts of assembly, 
and in many of the forms used in our courts, we have the word "duly" 
used, apparently, in such a sense; yet, accompanied as the power of 
attorney is, in this case, with the letter of Drury, in his own hand 
writing, directed to Fitzpatrick, 1 am inclined to the opinion that it is 
sufficient, and fully complies with the requisitions of the act of assem- 
bly. It does not require a formal acknowledgment before a justice 
of the peace, nor any official identification of such acknowledgment. 
It is sufficient, if the hand-writing of the party signing, &c, is 
proved or acknowledged, to bring it within the true meaning of the 
term duly, as used in the act — which, I think, must mean neither more 
nor less than that given to it by our best lexicographers — as " fitly, 
properly, regularly," &c. Generally speaking, an authority to make 
contracts, to buy or sell, or to transact any particular business, may 
be granted by any mode which manifests the intention of the party — 
and the consent of the principal may be given verbally in the pre- 
sence of the parties, or by letter or message. 1 Liv. on Agency, 36. 
This is the law as to agency, with respect to personal property of all 
descriptions — and here, however harsh and grating it may be to our 
feelings, as Pennsylvanians, we are bound to consider this as a claim 
to personal property — as a claim, on the part of the master, for the 
possession of his personal property, under the provisions of the con- 
stitution and laws of the United States, by which its possession and re- 
covery is guaranteed to him. The only difference between any other 
species of agency, and the one required here, is, that the authorized 
agent or attorney of the claimant must be '* constituted as such, in 
writing." 

This decision would save me the trouble of examining the other 
point, as to this power of attorney, viz. that because it was acknowl- 
edged in blank, it is, therefore, null and void. But I have no desire 
to avoid giving an opinion on that point also, and intend to do so; be- 
cause it was so strongly urged on the argument, that, I must confess, 
I was, at one time, inclined strongly to the opinion advocated by the 
boy's counsel, considering the power a deed, and the authorities cited 
as decisive of the case. It is true, that most of the old authorities 
go to declare void all blank acknowledgments, as in 10 Coke, 92 b., 
particularly as to deeds for real estate. No authorities were cited by 
either party in the case of Moore, et. al. vs. Bichham and West. 4 
Binney, 1. There the deed had been acknowledged, and a blank left 
for the consideration money, and the duly constituted agent of the 
plaintiffs below, swore that he was duly authorized by Bichham and 
West to fill it up. The deed was tendered, however, without the blank 



being filled, (and the acknowledgment embracing that of two mar- 
ried women,) was refused by the purchaser and an ejectment brought 
for the land. Judge Cooper, who tried the cause in the court below, 
considered the acknowledgment of the deed before the blank was filled 
as a mere technical objection, not touching the merits of the question, 
as it was a matter of no consequence, whether the consideration was 
five pounds or five hundred pounds, as the real consideration need 
not be inserted. But, on error, the chief justice, Tilghman, decided 
that the purchaser was not bound to accept the deed where there was 
a blank left for the consideration money, notwithstanding that the 
grantors, after their acknowledgment of the deed, by them, had au- 
thorized their agent to fill the blank. No alteration, says the chief 
justice, of the most trifling kind, can be made in a deed after acknowl- 
edgment-^-because, an altered deed is not the same as that certified — 
the act of the magistrate is independent of the parties, and no con- 
sent of their's can warrant them in falsifying it. And to this point 
are all the cases cited. 15 Johns. 293; 7 Cowan 71; and others. 
There is some difference in the cases, however. In that cited, the 
blank was not filled before the deed was tendered — here, the deed, or 
power of attorney, was filled before its exhibition — which, to be sure, 
according to the doctrine of the chief justice, would make no differ- 
ence, if a power of attorney, to constitute an agent, is required to go 
through the same formalities and solemnities as a deed to pass real 
estate. The more modern doctrine is at variance with the older au- 
thorities: and 1 consider the law of this case to be governed by the case 
of Wiley, et. al. vs. Moore, et. al. 17 S. 4* R- 438; a case which was 
not cited on the argument by the counsel on either side; but which I 
have had occasion to examine since the last adjournment. Here was 
a case, I think, much stronger than this. It was where two obligors 
wrote their names, and affixed their seals, to a blank sheet of paper, 
and left it with a judge of the court, with instructions to fill it up as 
a bond, conditioned to take the benefit of the insolvent laws, which 
was accordingly done. On the plea of non est factum, judge Shaler, 
who tried the cause in the court below, charged the jury upon the 
principles laid down by the chief justice in the case cited from 4 
Binn. 1. On error, the judgment was revei-sed, and judge Rogers, 
who delivered the opinion of the supreme court, says, that the ancient 
principle, Shep. Touch. 54; Perk. Sect. 118, and Co. Lit. 171, 
" that if a man seal and deliver an empty piece of paper or parch- 
ment, albeit, he do therein withal give commandment, that an obliga- 
tion or other matter shall be written in it, and this be done accordingly, 
yet this is no deed," has been overruled in the more modern cases. 
The point came before the court of king's bench, in Texira vs. Evans, 
cited and relied on, in Master vs. Miller, 1 Anstruth, 229. The 
case occurred before lord Mansfield, and was this: Evans wanted to 
borrow £400, or so much of it as his credit was able to raise; for 
this purpose he executed a bond, with blanks for the name and sum, 



and sent an agent to raise money on the bond; Texira lent £200 on 
it, and the agent accordingly filled up the blanks with the sum and 
Texira's name, and delivered the bond to him. On non est factum 
pleaded, lord Mansfield held it to be a good deed. And the same 
point, 1 find, has been ruled in our supreme court in Seigfried vs. 
Levan, 6 S. <fy R. 309. That was a case, too, of a bond delivered 
in blank; and on the plea of non est factum, a similar objection was 
made to the deed as in the former cases cited; but it was admitted in 
evidence, and finally a verdict was given for the plaintiff*. On error, 
the judgment was reversed by the supreme court, but not on this 
point. The question was not directly decided, as it arose on the ad- 
missibility of the evidence; yet it may be collected from the case, 
that the opinion of the court was in conformity to the case of Texira 
vs. Evans. Judge Duncan, confessedly one of the ablest and soundest 
lawyers that ever occupied a seat on our supreme court bench, in de- 
livering the opinion of the court, enters into an elaborate review of 
the authorities, (although the case of Texira vs. Evans appears to 
have escaped his attention,) and says, " I would consider him, (that 
is, Peter Levan, the person who filled up the blanks in the bond,) as 
the agent of the defendants; at least, I would leave it to the jury; 
and if he is so considered, then he delivered the bond to the plaintiff, 
having authority so to do, and it would be their deed." In the course 
of the argument, in the case of Wiley, et. al. vs. Moore, et. al. judge 
Rogers was referred by the defendants in error, to the case of Har- 
rison vs. Tiernans, ia 4. Rand, in which it was held, " that a bail 
bond which was returned to the clerk's office, but which specifies no 
sum to be paid by the obligor to the obligee, is a mere nullity." The 
reason which is assigned is perfectly satisfactory — " that a bond is a 
deed, whereby the obligor obliges himself to pay a certain sum of 
money to another at a day appointed; that the obligation to pay money 
is of the essence of the bond, and is, in fact, the only stipulation 
which the bond contains. " The distinction, says judge Rogers, taken 
between a bill of exchange and a bond, is unnecessary to the decision 
of the main point, and is not borne out to its fullest extent by author- 
ity. It is in opposition to the case of Texira vs. Evans, and Seig- 
fried vs. Levan; and, however respectable as a dictum, it is not suf- 
ficient to overrule adjudged cases. The decision by our supreme 
court of the case of Wiley, et. ah vs. Moore, et. al. I consider as set- 
tling the question conclusively here; and that the filling up of the 
blank in the power of attorney from Drury to Fitzpatrick, with his 
own name, by the written directions of Drury, rendered the instru- 
ment a legal and proper one for all the purposes for which it was in- 
tended. There is, certainly, no greater sanctity in a power of attor- 
ney than in a bond or obligation for the payment of money. As to 
the production of the second power of attorney from Drury to Freanor, 
I do not consider it in evidence here — it was not so offered — and even 
if it was, being of the same date, tenor, and effect, it would have had 



47 

no effect here. A man may have as many agents as he pleases for 
the same purpose — if they all act, he is bound by their acts — but this 
power was for a special purpose — the second power was never acted 
on, and is, of course, no revocation of the first; and it would be a 
useless waste of time to cite authorities on this subject. Lastly — as 
to whether the agent is a competent witness to prove his own author- 
ity? I have no doubt of it, on general principles, otherwise the in- 
terests of third persons would be in continual jeopardy, and no one 
would trust or deal with the agent or attorney of another. The books 
are full of authorities on this point. But see, 2 Livermore on Agency, 
238, 244, and the cases there referred to. 

I believe I have now disposed of all the objections raised by the 
respondent's counsel as to the validity of this power of attorney. I 
have been more elaborate than was, perhaps, necessary. But this 
arose from the fact, that at one stage of the argument I was almost 
decidedly of opinion with the respondent's counsel. The ingenuity 
and earnestness of his argument, together with my recollection of 
the old cases on the subject, led me into that train of reasoning — and 
my doubts, I must confess, were not removed until a full examination 
of the subject, since the adjournment, convinced me of the error. I 
can scarcely believe there can be a doubt on this subject. At least, 
I am now satisfied of the correctness of this decision. Having got 
rid of the power of attorney, and of every thing connected with it, the 
next subject of enquiry appears to be this: — 

2dly. Has the claimant properly and sufficiently stated his title 
to the labour and services of Charles Brown, the respondent, in con- 
formity with the provisions of the act of the 25th of March, 1826? 

The 4th sect, of the act of the 25th of March, 1826, is in these 
words: " No judge, justice of the peace, or alderman, shall issue a 
warrant on the application of any agent or attorney, as provided in 
the said 3d sect., unless the said agent or attorney shall, in addition 
to his own oath or affirmation, produce the affidavit of the claimant 
of the fugitive, taken before and certified by a justice of the peace, 
or other magistrate, authorized to administer oaths, in the state or 
territory in which such claimant shall reside, and accompanied by the 
certificate of the authority of such justice, or other magistrate, to ad- 
minister oaths, signed by the clerk or prothonotary, and authenti- 
cated by the seal of a court of record in such state or territory; which 
affidavit shall state the said claimanfs title to the service of such fu- 
gitive, and also the name, age, and description of the person of 
such fugitive." 

The affidavit produced here, (and which is attached to the power 
of attorney,) is as follows: — 

" State of Maryland, 

" Washington County, ss: — 
" On this 19th day of June, 1832, personally appears William C* 



48 

Drury, named in the foregoing letter of attorney, before me, the sub- 
scriber, a justice of the peace for the state of Maryland, in and for 
the county aforesaid, and makes oath, on the Holy Evangelists of Al- 
mighty God, that his negro boy, named Charles Brown, eloped from 
him on Saturday night, the 16th inst.; that the said negro boy is 
about eighteen years of age, about five feet nine or ten inches high, 
of a dark complexion, well made, and of a good countenance, and 
that he is a slave for life. " W. C. DRURY." 

"Sworn and subscribed before me, 
" Jno. M'Ilhenny, J. P." 

This affidavit was accompanied by the certificate of Otho H. Wil- 
liams, clerk of Washington county court, under the seal of the court, 
of the authority of the justice, and attested by the hon. John Bu- 
chanan, chief judge of the 5th Maryland judicial district — all in due 
form of law, and to which no exception has been taken. 

The enquiry appears to be, what is the correct and legal meaning 
of the word title, as used in the 4th section of the act? Must the 
claimant set forth, on oath, how, when, and by what manner, by 
purchase, descent, or otherwise, he became entitled to the " labour 
and services" of the fugitive? Or is it sufficient that he set forth, on 
oath, that the fugitive is his servant for a term of years, or kis slave 
for life? 

It is contended, on the part of the respondent, that the claimant 
must " state his title to the services of the fugitive," in such a manner 
as clearly to show that he is the exclusive owner of the slave, in his 
own right, and by what sort of title he claims to hold him in servi- 
tude. That the mere swearing, by an individual, that he claims an- 
other to be his slave is entirely insufficient, because it is swearing to 
a fact in which he is directly interested — that interest being a strong 
inducement, under particular circumstances, for the commission of 
perjury — and that if the individual swears falsely in another state, he 
cannot be prosecuted for perjury in this state. That the oath taken 
in Maryland is an exparte one, as relates to the laws of that state, 
and consequently could not, even if false, amount to perjury there; 
there being no issue depending to which it would be material. There- 
fore it is necessary that the claimant should substantially set forth his 
title at large, in order to enable us to judge of its nature, as well as 
its validity. And this has been, I must say, most ably and ingeni- 
ously argued by the counsel for the respondent. There does, at the 
first blush, seem to be something horrible in allowing an individual 
to swear that another human being is his slave for life; and to allow 
that oath to be sufficient to carry the person, without any other proof, 
into a state of bondage. But whatever may be our own notions and 
feelings on this subject; however our feelings as men, and members 
of a community in which we are not cursed with the foul blot of slav- 
ery; we must not, in our official capacity, when called on to act in 



49 

cases like the present, forget that, according to the constitution and 
laws of the United States, slaves are personal property; and at all 
times and places liable to be reclaimed by their owners, as such. 

The peculiar circumstances of this case, as disclosed in evidence, 
have been strongly dwelt on by the counsel for the respondent, in sup- 
port of his argument, as to the nature of the title to the " labour and 
service" of the slave, necessary to be set forth by the claimant in the 
affidavit required to be made and certified by the 3d sect, of the act 
of assembly of the 25th of March, 1826. 

It appears in evidence, that Enoch Drury, the father of Wm. C. 
Drury, was possessed of a family of slaves, consisting of a man, 
named Isaac Brown, his wife, and ten or eleven children — that they 
all lived with him, on his farm, in the neighbourhood of Williams- 
port, Washington county, Maryland; that he died in 1818, about 16 
or 17 years ago, after the birth of the respondent, leaving two sons, 
William C. Drury, the claimant, and Isaac Drury, his brother, and 
a widow; that Isaac died in 1825, unmarried, and without issue; and 
that the widow, the mother of Wm. C. Drury, is still alive, and lives 
at the old mansion house, with her son, Wm. C. Drury. 

It is contended, by the respondent's counsel, that this evidence, so 
far from showing a direct and exclusive ownership in the claimant, 
goes to render that fact extremely doubtful: that it was, under such 
circumstances, incumbent on the claimant, according to the spirit and 
true meaning of the act of assembly, to have set forth his title at 
large: that there is no evidence whether old Mr. Drury died intestate, 
or made a will, or what disposition he made of his real and personal 
estate: if he made a will, the fair presumption is, that he did not be- 
queath the whole of his estate to his son Wm. C. Drury, to the ex- 
clusion of his other son, and his widow: if he died intestate, the 
slaves would be included in the inventory of his personal property, 
and could be disposed of by his administrators for the payment of his 
debts: that all these circumstances go to show, that the absolute and 
exclusive title of the claimant to the " labour and service" of this 
boy is a matter of doubt; and that, under the peculiar circumstances 
of the case, as all presumptions ought to be in favour of liberty, the 
presumption here should be, that Wm. C. Drury is not the exclusive 
owner of the boy, as a slave, otherwise he would have more particu- 
larly set forth his full title to his " labour and service," as he is 
bound to do by the special provisions of the act of the 25th of March, 
1826. 

There is great plausibility, special pleading, and ingenuity, in this 
argument. But we must not lose sight of the fact, that as this is, ac- 
cording to the laws of Maryland, as well as the constitution and laws 
of the United States, a specific claim to a certain species of personal 
property; and that long and undisputed possession of such property 
is prima facia evidence itself of ownership. The oath of the party, 
stating that the respondent is his negro boy, and a slave for life, 

7 



50 

appears to me to be a sufficient setting forth of title, under the pro- 
visions of the 3d sect, of the act, to throw the onus probandi on the 
respondent, to show that he is not the property of William C. Drury, 
but a freeman, or the property of some other person. And in order 
to afford him an opportunity of doing so, the law has made ample pro- 
vision: and, in fact, it was to afford him this opportunity that the 
act of assembly provides that the hearing of his case shall not be 
by an alderman or justice, but by a judge or recorder — that 
it shall not be in secret, at the office of a justice or alderman, 
but publicly, and in the court house of the proper county. And, 
moreover, he is not to be hurried on to a trial or hearing, at the 
pleasure of the master: he is to be allowed full and ample time to 
prepare his defence, and collect his proof, so that no undue advantage 
shall be taken of him by the mere oath of the person claiming his 
" labour and service." 

The 4th sect, of the act of assembly provides — " That when the 
fugitive shall be brought before the judge, agreeably to the provisions 
of this act, and either party (thus putting the master and slave, very 
properly, upon the same footing) alledge, and prove, to the satisfac- 
tion of the judge, that he or she is not prepared for trial, and have 
testimony material to the matter in controversy, that can be obtained 
in a reasonable time, it shall and may be lawful, unless security sa- 
tisfactory to the said judge be given for the appearance of the said 
fugitive, on a day certain, to commit the said fugitive to the common 
jail, for safe keeping, there to be detained, at the expense of the 
owner, agent, or attorney, for such time as the said judge shall think 
reasonable and just, and to a day certain, when the said fugitive 
shall be brought before him by Habeas Corpus, in the court house of 
the proper county, or, in term time, at the chamber of the said judge, 
for final hearing and adjudication: Provided, That if the adjourn- 
ment of the hearing be requested by the claimant, his agent, or at- 
torney, such adjournment shall not be granted, unless the said claim- 
ant, his agent, or attorney, shall give security, satisfactory to the 
judge, to appear and prosecute his claim, on the day to which the 
hearing shall be adjourned." 

I have examined the language used by the court of Maryland, in 
the cases cited from 2 Gill 4* Johns. 330, and 1 Harris fy Gill, 259, 
as also the language of chief justice Marshall, in the case cited from 
7 Crunch, 295. All these cases go to show, that slaves are per- 
sonal property, and liable to be sold, as other personal property, by 
the owners themselves, or by sheriffs and constables, for the payment 
of debts. It has not been shown here, what, if any formalities, are 
required in the sale and transfer of negroes in Maryland and Vir- 
ginia. It may be, that some particular form or mode is necessary — 
and it may be, that owners are compelled by law to register their 
slaves. But, even if it is so, it is totally immaterial here, in my opin- 
ion. I go upon the broad ground, that slaves are personal property, 



51 

and provable by their owners, as such, as other personal property is 
liable to be proved, according to law* 

In discussing this question we may revert to the fact, that our act 
of assembly appears to have been passed for the express purpose of 
enabling the owners of such personal property, when lost, to regain 
legal possession of it, upon complying with certain forms, and pro- 
ducing certain proofs. The act itself is entitled " an act, to give ef- 
fect to the provisions of the constitution of the U. States, relative to 
fugitives from labour." The act of congress of the 12th of Feb- 
ruary, 1793, was passed in pursuance of the provisions of the con- 
stitution of the United States, and is intended to give to the claimants 
of fugitive slaves a summary remedy for their apprehension and res- 
toration. That summary remedy the legislature have declared shall 
be pursued, in Pennsylvania, under certain restrictions — and so strong 
are those restrictions, that it is next to impossible, in a populous and 
free state like ours, for any individual, high or low, to drag another 
into bondage, contrary to law, and without evidence of ownership, 
and a public hearing as to his title to the " labour and service" of 
the person claimed. 

If this boy, Charles Brown, had alledged, at the commencement 
of this enquiry, that he was not ready for trial, and had satisfied me, 
by his own oath, (for I certainly should have felt bound to take his 
oath, here, just as I would have taken his master's, had he been per- 
sonally pi^esent,) that he was not ready for trial, and had material 
testimony, which he could procure in a reasonable time, he certainly 
would have been allowed ample time to make good his allegations, if 
possible. And I should, if it had been desired, felt bound to issue a 
commission to take testimony for him, in order to enable him to con- 
tradict the oath of his master, setting forth his title to him as a slave. 
As it is, it appears to me that the oath of Mr. Drury, stating that 
" Charles Brown is his negro boy," and is " ins slave for life," 
is a sufficient setting forth of " the claimant's title to the service of 
the fugitive," according to the true intent and meaning of the 3d sect, 
of the act of assembly of the 25th of March, 1826. And I think 
there can be no doubt on this subject, when we reflect for a moment 
on what is the object of the law, in compelling the claimant to make 
such oath. It is not that the oath of the claimant shall be conclusive 
against the fugitive. No such thing: — It is required to be produced, 
certified by a clerk, under the seal of a court, and attested by a 
judge, &c, in order to authorize the judge, or magistrate, in the first 
instance, to issue a warrant of apprehension. It is the very founda- 
tion of the proceedings — for if such oath is not produced, no warrant 
can issue, no matter how many agents the claimant may have pre- 
sent, and no matter how well prepared they may come to prove and 
identify the fugitive. They cannot attempt to touch his person without 
■first exhibiting this oath. It is the foundation, or ground-work of the 

initiatory proceedings; and having answered that purpose, by author- 

7# 



52 

izing the judge or magistrate to issue his warrant, it is functus officio, 
and we are done with it; because the 6th sect, of the act provides, that 
" the oath of the owner or owners, or other person or persons inter- 
ested, shall, in no case, be received in evidence, on the hearing of the 
case." On the hearing, the claimant must produce some better evi- 
dence of his right and title to the " labour and service" of the fugi- 
tive than his own oath. He must produce the testimony of disinter- 
ested witnesses, to show conclusively that he is so entitled. It is then, 
and then only, that he will be held to " strict proof," in the terms 
laid down by judge Rogers, in the case cited from 1 Watts, 156. 

3dly. Having thus disposed of the second branch of the enquiry, 
we come to the third and last — that is, the proof offered by the claim- 
ant of his title to the " labour and service" of the fugitive, and 
of his identity, in being the same negro boy, (the same Charles 
Brown,) that ran away from him, on the 16th of June, 1832, as is 
described in his affidavit, and the advertisement now offered in evi- 
dence. 

In order to establish his right and title to the " labour and service" 
of this boy, four witnesses have been produced on the part of the 
claimant, viz. Edward Fitzpatrick, Michael P. Fitzpatrick, his son, 
Samuel Sterling, and William Freanor. The testimony of these wit- 
nesses, it is said, should not be received or relied on, because they are 
evidently interested, more or less, although they have all sworn that 
they " are not, directly or indirectly, interested in the final decision 
of the case, one way or the other." We are not to presume interest 
in a witness, who denies its existence, on oath. — We must prove it. — 
And there is no occasion for citing authorities for this plain rule of 
evidence, of every day's practice. One of these witnesses is the duly 
constituted agent and attorney of Wm. C. Drury; two of the others 
are his neighbours and acquaintances; one of them is a public officer 
of Washington county, Maryland, and the other is the son of the 
agent, who it is not pretended is interested, but merely that he might, 
by possibility, be unduly biassed and prejudiced by the views and 
conversations of his father, had with him, since the commencement 
of this case. 

Two of the witnesses, viz. Sterling and Freanor, have stated that 
they expect to be " compensated" for their trouble and loss of time, 
in leaving home to attend here, as witnesses for Mr. Drury, to prove 
the identity of the boy-=-but that they do not expect any reward be- 
yond that — and are not interested in the amount of the reward of- 
fered by Mr. Drury for the boy's apprehension, and do not expect to 
receive any portion of it. Fitzpatrick and his son, both of whom re- 
side here, do not, they say, expect to receive any thing. Edward 
Fitzpatrick states that he is the personal friend and acquaintance of 
Wm. C. Drury, and was formerly in partnership with him in a store 
in Hagerstown, Maryland, and that he is acting as his friend as well 
as his agent, and does not expect to receive any compensation what- 



53 

ever. The interest of these witnesses, therefore, if any, must be 
slight indeed; but should not exclude their testimony, even if it might 
cast a slight shade upon their credibility. The interest, to disqualify, 
must be some legal, certain, and immediate interest, however minute, 
in the result of the cause, or in the record, as an instrument of evi- 
dence, acquired without fraud — and it must be a present, certain, 
vested interest, and not uncertain, or contingent. This is the ac- 
cepted doctrine now, and is fully explained in 2 Starkie on Evidence, 
742, and supported by all the English and American cases there 
cited, and they are numerous. Indeed the doctrine, as I understand 
it, is undoubted, and unquestionable. The interest of the witnesses 
here, if any, is so remote, and of such an uncertain and contingent 
nature, as, in my opinion, not to disqualify, or even to impair their 
credibility. 

If these witnesses are to be believed, then there can be very little 
doubt on the subject. Mr. Sterling, who lives neighbour to Mr. 
Drury, states that he has known this boy, Charles Brown, for eight 
or ten years past; that he cannot be mistaken about him; that he was 
in the habit of seeing him almost daily, and sometimes' two or three 
times a day — that he knows him to belong to Wm. C. Drury, as his 
slave, and that he ran away two years ago last June — that he knows 
the boy's parents, who live with Mr. Drury, and are his slaves. As 
to his identity, he is positive, without hesitation, having known him 
so long, and seen him so frequently — and that he has seen him and 
his master frequently together, and that he always called Mr. Drury 
" Master William," — that he worked on the farm of Mr. Drury, and 
was a sort of mechanic. Mr. Freanor says he knows the boy well 
enough to identify him, having seen him about Mr. Drury 's store, in 
Hagerstown; but he does not know whether he is a slave or not. Mr. 
Fitzpatrick says that he has known him, as the slave of Mr. Drury, 
ever since the year 1818 — that is almost 17 years ago, when he was 
a mere child — up to 1832 or 1833, when he removed to this place; 
that he was frequently at Mr. Drury's house, near Wiiliamsport, Ma- 
ryland, and almost always saw him there; that he lived in Mr. 
Drury's house, and acted in the capacity of a servant; that he took 
his horse, and put him away, as other servants usually do. Mr. 
Fitzpatrick also states that he knows the father and mother of the 
boy — his father's name is Isaac Brown; and he often told him that 
himself, and his wife, and all his children, were the slaves of William 
C. Drury. He is so positive, he says, that he cannot be mistaken as 
to this being the same boy, having known him so long, from a child 
of two or three years old, up to 1832, and having had such frequent 
opportunities of seeing and conversing with him. He further states, 
that when he first saw him in the streets of this city, about five or 
six weeks ago, he recognized him immediately; and that when Charles 
saw him looking at him, he turned round, and ran off. Young Fitz- 
patrick, aged about 14 or 15 years, the son of Edward Fitzpatrick > 



54 

a smart and intelligent lad for his age, testifies that he knows Charles 
Brown, the black boy now present, well — that he is three or four 
years older than him, and that he played with him, when they were 
children, at his master's house, near Williamsport, Maryland — that 
he knew him in Hagerstown, as well as at his master's house in the 
country — that he has often seen his father and mother, and his grand- 
mother, at Mr. Drury's — that he first saw him here, in Allegheny 
town, about three weeks ago, and has no doubt whatever of his being 
the same boy — that Charles recognized him when he was first appre- 
hended, but that he has not seen Mr. Drury since he left Hagerstown, 
in 1833. 

In addition to this testimony, as to the identity of the respondent, 
we have that of the alderman, before whom he was brought on the 
24th of January last, and of Hague and Dunshee, two of the officers 
who arrested him on the warrant issued by Mr. Scully. He made all 
the resistance he was capable of to get off when arrested; and when 
questioned respecting himself, he said his name was Charles Brown, 
that he was born in Butler county, the adjoining county to this — that 
the town of Butler was 10 miles from Pittsburgh; and he only gave 
the name of one individual, of the name of Galloway, who he said 
he knew there. He refused to recognize the elder Fitzpatrick — but 
when asked if he knew the boy, he smiled, and said he had seen him 
before, but could not tell where. 

In opposition to this testimony on the part of the master, there has 
been examined Sarah Cooney, Sarah Coffee, Ferry Ross, Dennis 
Ross, Edward Lewis, and Pero Coffee, all free coloured people, now 
residing in this city, or in its immediate neighbourhood. But I am 
sorry to say that there is such an utter discrepancy in their testimony 
as to induce me almost to discredit them altogether. The Rosses 
may have seen him at Old Town, Maryland, 15 miles from Fort Cum- 
berland, eight or nine years ago; but as he is only about 20 or 21 
years of age, it is next to impossible that he should have been as tall 
then as he is now. Young Ross says he is himself upwards of 22 years 
of age now, and he supposes Charles was 16 or 17 years of age 
when he first saw him, six or seven years ago; and that he was then 
as tall as he is now, but not quite so stout. Lewis may have seen 
him at Mutton town, and at Greencastle, four or five years ago — but 
the description is certainly at variance with the facts of the case, and 
the appearance of the boy before us. I pass over the testimony of 
the other witnesses; for indeed it is so vague, uncertain, and contra- 
dictory, as scarcely to be worthy of attention. An examination of 
it, in the most careful manner, will show that it is totally irreconcil- 
able. I do not attribute this to bad motives on the part of the wit- 
nesses — .they are ignorant and illiterate, and, perhaps, examined for 
the first time in a court of justice, and incapable of properly distin- 
guishing dates, months, and years. It is clear, that in a court of jus- 
tice, on the trial of a cause, either civil or criminal, such evidence 



55 

would scarcely weigh a feather against the positive, direct, uncontra- 
dicted, and unimpeached evidence of such witnesses as Fitzpatrick 
and his son, and Sterling and Freanor. The positive weight of the 
testimony is decidedly in favour of the claim of the master. 

I have thus, 1 believe, noticed all the points raised in this case. I 
have given it a most attentive, careful, and impartial examination — 
as well to satisfy my own conscience, as because the importance of 
the case, and the exertions of the counsel, seemed to demand it. 
Whilst, as a man, all my prejudices are strong against the curse of 
slavery, and all its concomitant evils, I am bound by my oath of of- 
fice to support the constitution of the United States, and the consti- 
tution of Pennsylvania, not to let my feelings as a man interfere 
with my duties as a judge. In considering this case, if any partiality 
remained on my mind, it was certainly in favour of this unfortunate 
negro boy. I could not very dispassionately, I confess, look upon 
the circumstance of my being in duty compelled to order him back 
to a state of bondage and servitude for life. As my pen glided along 
the paper, by degrees coming to the conclusion I have, I could not 
help calling to mind the exclamation of one of the best of poets, and 
the most amiable as well as afflicted of men — that 

" I would not have a slave to till my ground, 
To carry me, to fan me while I sleep, 
And tremble when I wake, for all the wealth 
That sinews bought and sold have ever earned." 

Between feeling and duty, however, there is no medium; and 
therefore, in obedience to that duty, I am constrained to grant a cer- 
tificate to the duly authorized agent of William C. Drury, to remove 
this " fugitive from labour and service" to the state of Maryland, 
to be delivered to his master, according to the provisions of the act of 
assembly in such cases made and provided. During my eleven years 
of official duty, as Recorder of the city of Pittsburgh, this is the Jirst 
instance in which I have officially been called on to remand a human 
being into bondage, and I trust in God it will be the last. It is some 
satisfaction to the boy to know that my decision against him here is 
not conclusive. He will be taken back to the place from whence he 
escaped, and may there take the proper steps to prove his freedom, 
if he is entitled to it. The case will not be hid in secret; it will be 
published to the world; and I will myself take especial care that it 
shall be known, in order that he may not be deprived of the oppor- 
tunity of being released from bondage, if he is in truth and in law 
entitled to such release. The warrant for his removal is granted as 
follows: and all the proceedings will be filed of record in the office of 
the clerk of the court of quarter sessions of Allegheny county, ac- 
cording to law. 



56 

{Copy of the Warrant of Removal.) 

State of Pennsylvania, 

Allegheny County, City of Pittsburgh, set, 

•$§§&*+ The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to Edward Fitz~ 
SiM^MzMz. patrick, the agent and attorney of William C. Drury, 
of Washington county, and state of Maryland, Greet- 
ing:— 

Whereas it has been proved to my satisfaction that Charles Brown, 
a black man, aged about 20 or 21 years, about five feet nine or ten 
inches high, of a dark complexion, well made, and of a good counte- 
nance, is a fugitive slave from the state of Maryland, aforesaid, 
" owing labour and service" to the said William C. Drury, residing 
near Williamsport, in Washington county, and state of Maryland, 
aforesaid: These are, therefore, to authorize you, the said Edward 
FitzpatricJc, agent and attorney of the said William C. Drury, to 
receive and take possession of the person of the said Charles Brown, 
and deliver him safely into the custody of the said William C. Drury, 
and to the custody of no other person or persons whatsoever: and for 
so doing this shall be your sufficient warrant. 

Witness my hand, and the public and corporate seal of the said 
city of Pittsburgh, this 7th day of February, A. D. 1835. 

E. "ENTLAND, 
Recorder of Pittsburgh. 



ERRATA. 

Page 10, line 13 from the top, for "act," read acts. 

„ for "teum," read tuum. 

„ for " Litt. Rep. 75," read 333. 

„ for " deed," read letter. 

„ for " connection," read correctness. 

„ for " can," read and. 

„ dele the words " to me." 

„ for "or," read and. 

„ for " those," read these. 

46, last line, for " was," read had been offered. 



21, 




26 


22, 




14 


37, 




4 


11 


» 


15 


38, 




10 


« 


99 


37 


39, 


9) 


13 
25 



