


^sr ^©©mass 



DELIVERED AT THE 

SIXTH ANNIVERSARY MEETiaig^ 



FOUNDRY MISSIONARY SOCIETY 

HELD IN THE 

WESLEY CHAPEL, CITY OF WASHINGTON, 
On Thursday Evening, January 15, 1835. 



BY G. G, COOKMAN, 

Of the Baltimore Conference Methodist Episcopal Church. 



[ PUBLISHED BY REQUEST. ] 



BALTIMORE: 

ARMSTRONG AND PLASKITT 

J. W. WOODS, PRINT. 

18 3 5. 



ADDRESS. 



Mr. President, 

In adventuring forth into the vast and com- 
prehensive field of Missionary operation; there is one 
subject which occupies my thoughts, absorbs my feel- 
ings, and on which this tongue must speak, if it speak 
at all. Sir, I refer to the religious prospects of Africa, 
and to the solemn Missionary obligation due from the 
Church of God in general, and the Methodist Episcopal 
Church in particular, to that benighted continent. If 
there be a Mission under the canopy of heaven to which 
the finger of God emphatically points as peculiarly ours, 
it is this. By every holy impulse of sanctified humanity 
we ought to do more; by the advantages of our relative 
position we can do more; and by every eternal law of 
justice we must do more than the rest of the world, or 
sin against God and our own consciences. Yes, sir, the 
burthen of Africa's salvation rests ponderously upon the 
conscience of the American Church, "and to him that 
knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin." 



Sir, there is no time to be lost, the hour for prompt 
and vigorous missionary action is arrived. Already Ethi- 
opia is stretching out her hands unto God, the year of 
her spiritual jubilee hastens on apace; the clanking of her 
chains, ^j the anguish of her groans have reverberated 
throughout Christendom, and the moistening glance of 
the world's compassion is turned towards her misery. 
Let then the Church of Jesus Christ lead the way, let 
the great Gospel trumpet be blown along her desolate 
shores, and throughout her interminable deserts, and yet, 
even yet, shall millions of her outcast children and those 
who are ready to perish, be embosomed within the family 
and church of the first-born, whose names are written 
in heaven. Too long has a deep, dense, dismal cloud 
rested on that benighted continent; too long have the 
lurid lightnings played upon its dark expanse and the 
hollow thunders muttered wrath and defiance; blessed be 
God the morning breaks, the day-spring arises, we hear 
the voice of the Eternal, "Arise! shine! thy light is come;" 
and on yon retreating cloud we see the magnificent arch, 
the rainbow of new-covenant promise, the signal of re- 
tiring tempests, and the illustrious harbinger of a glori- 
ous Gospel day. Too long has Africa resembled that 
unfortunate man travelling between Jerusalem and Jeri- 
cho who fell amongst thieves, robbed, stripped, wounded, 
and left half dead by the way-side; but I see the Church 
of God, like the good Samaritan, hastening to his relief, 
binding up his wounds, pouring in the oil and the wine, 
and saying, be warmed, be clothed, am I not thy neigh- 
bor, thy friend, thy brother. 



5 

But, sir, before we realize the bright visions of the 
future, we shall do well to profit by the errors of the past. 
The history of modern Missions on the western coast of 
Africa for the last thirty years is calculated to awaken 
up in the church a spirit of humiliation and searching 
of heart. For the immense sacrifices made, nifrl the un- 
common waste of human life, we have not, on the most 
moderate scale of missionary success, an adequate return. 
The Missions rest and remain in the seaports along the 
coast: we hear of no spirited advances into the interior, 
no distant outposts in the very heart and strength of 
heathenism, but there they linger along the seaboard, 
maintaining a feeble and precarious existence. 

Now, sir, this statement is made not to reflect upon 
the worthy men who have lived and died gloriously at 
the post of duty; a nobler band of heroic Missionaries 
the world has never seen, truly they have done all they 
could possibly do; no, sir, the fault has not been in the 
men, but in the system. Then, sir, it is high time to in- 
quire, whether in conducting the African Mission we 
have chosen the more excellent way; — and in the prose- 
cution of this inquiry, it would be both presumptuous 
and foreign to our present purpose, to investigate the 
causes which have operated against that usual success 
which has almost uniformly crowned the missionary ef- 
forts of our British brethren; our remarks bear directly 
upon our own Mission to Africa, and are addressed solely 
and solemnly to the American Churches. 

In the first place may we not, in all good conscience, 
ask, on the broad ground of this important question, 



6 
whether we have maintained the simplicity and integrity 
of the Missionary purpose in the one and undivided ob- 
ject of its aim? Rather, sir, has it not been confused, 
embarrassed, and weakened in its application to Africa by 
the introduction and intermixture of secular and seconda- 
ry considerations? Sir, by the original constitution of the 
Missionary charter, the Great Head of the Church estab- 
lished this work on the most elevated ground; high and 
lifted up above all earthly considerations. He who said, 
"My kingdom is not of this world," inspired his apostolic 
servants practically to affirm this important truth, "the 
weapons of our warfare are not carnal but spiritual." 
And onwards they went preaching the Gospel to every 
creature, without respect of persons, in all climates, and 
under all governments, untrammelled by the policy or 
prudence of the world. They preached Christ cruci- 
fied, panting after the souls of men, seeking nothing more, 
satisfied with nothing less. Happy would it be for the 
Church of Christ, if in these latter days she preserved 
the same single eye to the simple and single originality 
of the Missionary constitution. But, sir, we regret to say 
that in regard to the Mission to Africa, it would seem 
that there has been a departure in some sort from these 
great first principles. There has been a blending of 
things between which there can be no affinity, a joining 
together of matters which God Almighty has eternally 
put asunder. You may say that civilization and coloni- 
zation, and the advancement of science and civil liberty 
are good things; we shall hold no controversy with you, 
but we do say that the Missionary work is infinitely su- 



7 
perior to the whole put together, and to be properly ef- 
ficient, must be disconnected with all these good tilings, and 
go forth single-handed with the great power of God to 
subjugate the hearts of men. Those may do good, but 
this must do good; these depend for success upon the 
wisdom of men, but this upon the word, the promise, 
the mighty power of God. Let then the Missionary go 
forth as the Ambassador of Christ, with no other com- 
mission or protection than that granted to the Old Apos- 
tles; let him effect a reconciliation between God and the 
people, and depend upon it, sir, Civilization, and Coloni- 
zation, and Science, and Liberty, will follow in his train; 
but trammel him not with civil office, make him not a 
party to secular enterprizes; no, like the youthful shep- 
herd of Israel, let him magnanimously throw aside the 
weapons of human trust, and armed with nought but the 
sling and the stone of divine truth, he shall make the 
Goliath of Paganism to bite the dust. 

Sir, it was in an unpropitious hour that we admitted 
the position that African Missions and secular undertak- 
ings must necessarily go hand in hand, it has lowered 
the tone of our religious confidence; it has made the 
work of God apparently dependent upon the work of 
man, so that our Missionary faith would appear to stand 
rather in the wisdom of men than in the power of God. 

Let me ask, what has the cause of Missions gained 
by thus endorsing for secular enterprizes? nothing, ab- 
solutely nothing but fearfulness and risk. Now, sir, the 
popular doctrine is, if the secular enterprize succeed, Mis- 
sions will succeed: but if it fail, Missions fail; and has it 



8 

come to this! O, sir, had we kept in simplicity of heart 
to the original commission, then might we have claimed 
and secured that glorious promise of our immutable 
God, "my word shall not return unto me void, but shall 
accomplish that whereto I have sent it." 

Besides, sir, does not this present aspect of our affairs 
threaten to disturb that unity of the spirit and that bond 
of peace amongst the friends of Missions, so essential to 
our success; has not this intermingling of secular and 
religious matters imported into the Missionary question 
party and political feelings? It is well known that dif- 
ferences of opinion do exist, and warm discussions are 
taking place even amongst good men. Upon the merits 
of any of these questions we give no opinion, we hazard 
no judgment; no, sir, we are not judging any man or any 
scheme; we are only humbly and respectfully suggesting 
considerations, which, though reflectingly and honestly 
offered, ought to pass for no more than they are worth; 
but we do suggest, would it not be more safe and digni- 
fied for the Missionary cause, to keep aloof from this 
strife of tongues and say with good Nehemiah, " I am 
doing a great work, so that I cannot come down." Why, 
sir, why should the Missionary Ark be brought down into 
the arena of party and political strife? let us tremble, sir, 
lest in an evil hour, it fall into the hands of the Philistines. 

But, sir, we have the most ominous and alarming 
suggestion yet to offer, and that is — has not the present 
course enlisted against us the prejudice of the colored 
people themselves? Are we not all aware that the col- 
ored race in these lands, have expressed an unequivocal 



9 
hostility to the secular enterprize; and finding the Mis- 
sionary question closely interlocked with the other, have 
united against both a determined and inflexible opposi- 
tion? Go sir, and recommend African Missions to the 
most intelligent and well informed people of color 
amongst us, and you shall find, in ninety-nine cases out of 
an hundred, you are suspected of some selfish and sinis- 
ter purpose. If it be said, but these are prejudices false 
and unfounded; it may be replied, are we white people 
free from prejudices? He that is without this sin let 
him cast the first stone. Surely, sir, whilst our right ear is 
open to the voice of our own prejudices, we ought not to 
close our left ear to the voice of our weak brother. At any 
rate there stands the fact, and a most stubborn and alarm- 
ing fact it is; that the colored people generally are strongly 
opposed to our present Missionary operations on the 
western coast of Africa. And do we suppose that we 
can evangelize western Africa without the co-operation 
of the colored race in America? Do we imagine that 
the labors of white men are competent to the accom- 
plishment of this herculean undertaking? No, sir, never! 
never! never let it be even dreamt of. If, sir, the colored 
race cannot be conciliated to the Missionary cause, the 
history of African Missions will be a dark page for fifty 
years to come. But, sir, they can be conciliated, and the 
moment we detach the Missionary question from the se- 
cular question, that conciliation takes place. 

I shall now, sir, pass on to consider another formida- 
ble obstacle to the success of African Missions, and 
which to some appears an inseparable objection. I 



10 

refer to the deadly effects of the climate upon the lives 
of our Missionaries. Sir, the expenditure of human life 
in the prosecution of African Missions on the western 
coast is truly appalling, it is unparalleled, and the sad con- 
viction now inevitably fastens itself upon every thinking 
mind, that white Missionaries will never evangelize that 
continent. This sad conviction fills the timid with dis- 
may, and the boldest with regret. But, sir, shall Africa 
be given up? What, sir, would you raise from the grave 
the indignant spirit of a Mills, an Ashmun, a Cox, a Cloud 
a Wright? Africa given up? Never, sir, whilst a single 
spark of Missionary fire burns upon the altars of the 
church. What, sir, when whole bands of European 
adventurers can ascend her rivers to advance geographi- 
cal science or commercial advantage, shall the chosen 
soldiers of the cross hesitate to march on to establish the 
Kingdom of God? What, sir, when the piratical slave 
trader, that hell-hound in human form, can prowl along 
her shores to kidnap away the bodies of men, shall we 
shrink from heroic efforts to save the souls of men? Let 
it not be so much as mentioned in our solemn assemblies. 
Nevertheless this portentous mortality amongst the 
white Missionaries ought to induce upon the Christian 
Church an emphatic pause, a solemn review, and an hon- 
est inquiry, whether we have chosen the more excellent 
way. If, sir, we believe Africa is to be Christianized, and 
if we are convinced that the present instrumentality is in- 
adequate, — then, sir, it is high time we were looking 
around us elsewhere for those chosen vessels, called and 
qualified by the God of Missions to the achievement of 
this glorious enterprize. 



11 

And whither shall we look but to the colored people 
themselves. It is well known, sir, that amongst this 
people the Methodists have reaped a rich harvest of souls. 
In the United States and the West Indies we have up- 
wards of one hundred thousand colored members in 
Church communion; and amongst these there are 
colored preachers, who, for native talent, spiritual gifts, 
scriptural knowledge, and sterling piety, would not dis- 
grace any Missionary Society on the face of the earth. 

Why should we not employ these? Truly, sir, they 
are in their feelings more naturally allied to Africa than 
any others, the difficulty of color will, in their case, be 
done away; their intercourse with the people will be 
more free and unsuspected, and it is well known that 
they can constitutionally endure the climate better than 
the white man. But it is said they are not willing to go; 
we reply are you sure of that? Have they been proper- 
ly and officially invited? Has the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church ever publicly given them such an invita- 
tion? Have we taken any preliminary steps? What ef- 
fort has ever been made to awaken a Missionary spirit 
amongst our colored brethren? Has one Missionary 
meeting ever been held? Has the subject ever been pro- 
perly laid before them? if so, where? and when? Sir, 
when this has been done, it will be time enought to lis- 
ten to the objection, "that they are not willing to go." 

Sir, though I disclaim all pretensions to the spirit of 
prophecy, yet I will solemnly predict, if we will only 
detach the Missionary question from the secular question; 
only take active measures to diffuse Missionary infor- 
mation and Missionary feeling amongst our colored mem- 



12 

bers; only give our colored preachers a public and gen- 
erous invitation; give them to know that in going to Af- 
rica they shall have the same honorable standing, and 
equal privileges as our Missionaries elsewhere; the 
pecuniary support, the protection, the influence, the pray- 
ers, the tears, and the confidence of the Church, that 
you shall see at the very first call of the Missionary 
trumpet, there shall stand up, if not an exceeding great 
army, an heroic band of choice spirits, answering with 
one heart and soul "here are we, send ws." 

Sir, I will not belie my colored brethren, I believe 
they will feel and they do feel already on this great sub- 
ject. I would address them in the eloquent language of 
Dr. Beecher, "is it indispensable to the emancipation of the 
sons of Africa that their mother country should sit in 
darkness, and drink blood amid the terrors of paganism 
and the slave trade, till all her exiled children are eman- 
cipated? Must her sons be taught to harden their hearts 
against her, till the entire reproach of slavery be wiped 
away? Is no compassion to be moved, prayer to be of- 
fered, no Missionary spirit to burn, no sorrow of heart 
to be felt for kinsmen according to the flesh in benighted 
Africa? Is there no obligation on Christians of the 
colored race to volunteer for the introduction of Chris- 
tianity to the land of their fathers?" 

In confirmation of this powerful appeal we would 
address two awakening passages of God's Word; you 
will find the first in the triumphant song of Deborah, 
"Curse ye, Meroz, said the angel of the Lord, curse ye 
bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they came not 



13 

to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against 
the mighty." The other is the solemn warning of hon- 
est Mordecai to queen Esther, "Think not with thyself 
that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than the 
Jews: For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this 
time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise 
to the Jewsirom another place, but thou and thy fath- 
er's house shalt be destroyed, and who knoweth wheth- 
er thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?" 

Sir, I am well persuaded that our colored brethren 
will obey the voice of God and the authority of his word: 
the day of Africa's redemption is at hand; the Gospel 
trumpet gives a certain sound; and already they are pre- 
paring themselves for the battle. The God of Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob, who brought Israel up out of Egypt, 
with an outstretched arm, is even now raising up the 
Moses', the Aaron's, the Caleb's, and the Joshua's, and 
soon you shall see them pass over, not the Red sea, but 
the Atlantic sea, and march victoriously forward to take 
possession of the land of their fathers. Let no. man 
take their crown; neither ought we to envy th,em the 
green laurels of this triumphant campaign. 

I know, sir, it has been said in reference to white 
Missionaries, "let a thousand fall before Africa is given 
up;" yet, sir, although we cannot but admire the heroic 
spirit dictating such a declaration, it is questionable 
whether the God of Missions might not inquire, "who 
hath required this at your hands." 

Sir, let me not be charged with any want of Mission- 
ary faith or feeling whilst I openly avow it as my honest 
% 



14 

belief; that as God calls and will incline our colored 
brethren to go to Africa; so he calls our white brethren 
to stay at home. There is a louder call, and a more prac- 
ticable field at home; sir, I point to the slave population of 
our southern states. And, sir, the very reason which 
impels the colored Missionary to Africa, impels the white 
Missionary to labor at home; I mean a fitness for the work; 
for if, sir, the colored Missionary can only succeed in Af- 
rica, the white Missionary can only succeed in the south. 

Sir, I now touch a topic most delightfully congenial. 
I rejoice that from the day that Dr. Thomas Coke set his 
foot on the island of Antigua, and commenced preach- 
ing the glorious Gospel to West India slaves, to the pres- 
ent hour; the. Methodist Itinerant Ministry have, at the 
risk of life and liberty, preached Jesus, freely and per- 
severingly to the slave. Sir, in this I glory; if I must 
become a fool and boast; I will glory that I belong to 
such a Ministry. 

Here, sir, you must indulge me for a moment; I must 
break off a little and sing with my favorite Montgomery, 

Was there no mercy mother of the slave! 
No friendly hand to succor or to save, 
While commerce thus thy captive tribes oppress'd, 
And lowering vengeance linger' d o'er the west? 
Yes, Africa! beneath the stranger's rod 
They found the freedom of the sons of God. 
The messengers of peace, o'er land and sea, 
That sought the sons of sorrow, found out thee. 

The captive raised his slow and sullen eye; 

He knew no friend, nor deemed a friend was nigh: 

Till the sweet tones of pity touched his ears, 

And mercy bathed his bosom with her tears; 

Strange were those tones to him, those tears were strange; 

Fie wept and wondered at the mighty change, 



15 

Felt the quick pang of keen compassion dart, 
And heard a still small whisper in his heart; 
A voice from heaven that bade the captive rise ' 
From shame on earth to glory in the skies. 

Believe it, sir, this is the brightest page in the history 
of Methodism; believe it, that in the unceasing roll of 
vast eternity, when the sacramental host of God's elect 
shall raise the full chorus of full and final deliverance, 
there shall be one note louder and sweeter than all the 
rest, echoing along the lofty dome of the palace of the 
great King; it is the voice of the African slave, "unto 
him that hath loved us, and washed us from our sins in 
his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto 
God and his Father; to him be gloryand dominion for 
ever and ever." 

And, sir, rest assured, that to the accomplishment of 
this glorious consummation, our ministerial brethren in 
the south are most actively contributing. Whatever 
opinions or judgments may exist on this subject in the 
north, we are satisfied that our brethren in the south, are 
not one whit behind the very chiefest in practical demon- 
strations of zeal for the salvation of the slave. Look, 
sir, at the last minutes, and you shall find in the South 
Carolina and Georgian Conferences not less than twenty 
"missions to slaves;" and colored membership of up- 
wards Of THIRTY THOUSAND MEMBERS. This, sir, is as 

it ought to be. A nobler Mission exists not. The Gos- 
pel sickle has never been thrust into a more abundant 
field, or reaped a richer harvest; and whatever else we 
attempt, be assured, sir, this is emphatically "our work." 
"Our work" then is before us. One grand business now 



16 

claims our attention as Methodists, to Christianize the 
whole African race, whether at home or abroad, what- 
ever may be the instrumentality, whatever the field of 
operation, this, we repeat, is "our work," and let us 
"work while it is called to day;" 

Nor in the isles and Africa alone 

Be the Redeemer's cross and triumphs known: 

Father of mercies! speed the promised hour; 

Thy kingdom come, with all restoring power: 

Peace, virtue, knowledge, spread from pole to pole, 

As round the world the ocean waters roll! 

— Hope waits the morning of celestial light; 

Time plumes his wings for everlasting flight; 

Unchanging seasons have their course begun: 

Millenial years are hastening to the sun; 

Seen througlrthick clouds by faith's triumphant eyes 

The new creation shines in purer skies. 

All hail! the age of crime and suffering ends; 

The reign of righteousness from heaven descends; 

Vengeance for ever sheaths the afflicting sword; 
Death is destroyed, and Paradise restored; 

Man, rising from the ruins of his fall, 

Is one with God, and God is all in all. 

Sir, I beg leave to offer the following motion: — 
"That this meeting, believing that the evangelization 
of the whole African race is an especial trust, especially 
committed by Almighty God to the people called Metho- 
dists, does hereby pledge itself to an increase of prayer 
and exertion in behalf of the Missions to the Western 
Coast of Africa, and the "Missions to Slaves," under the 
direction of the Methodist Episcopal Church." 



