■~-/L 






) ^y ^-^^ 









COMPULSORY MANUMISSION. 



Digitized by tiie Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tiie Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/compulsorymanumiOOmcdo 



COMPULSORY MANUMISSION ; 



OR 



AN EXAMINATION 



THE ACTUAL STATE 



WEST INDIA QUESTION 



BY 

ALEXANDER M'DONNELL, Esq. 



LONDON: 
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET. 



MDCCCXXVII. 



LONDON: 

PIUNTKD BY AVILLIAM CLOWES, 
Stamford-Street. 



XH 
,710 



ADVERTISEMENT, 



It is fearful odds against a writer, when, at each 
stage of his task, he is liable to encounter preju- 
dice as an upholder of a condition of society so 
repugnant to the feelings of Englishmen as that 
of slavery. 

Greatly must those odds be increased, if a dis- 
position be shown by Government, hitherto believed 
impartial, to array the weight of its authority 
against him. 

But it is hoped that prejudice will not preclude 
inquiry. In the following pages it will be found, 
that in setting forth the actual state of the West 
India Question, the real and permanent welfare 
of the slaves occupies a conspicuous place. 

In regard to the display of power, let us con- 
clude, that when a measure can be demonstrated 
as positively bad, such disapprobation will be 



VI ADVERTISEMENT. 

manifested by the independent and disinterested 
members of the legislature, as must exercise a 
salutary control over the counsels of ministers. 

Under this impression, the following pages are 
respectfully submitted to the consideration of the 
members of both Houses of Parliament. 



CONTENTS. 



Chapter I. 

PAOE 

West India Party disingenuously treated ....... 1 

Chapter II. 

Compulsory Manumission contrary to the Spirit of the 
Resolutions of Parliament 12 

Chapter III. 
Infringement of the Right of Property 22 

Sect. 1. — The Conversion of good Servants into bad . . 22 
Sect. 2. — Loss arising, if a number of effective Hands 

be taken from the Plantation 35 

Sect. 3. — Plantations burdened with Expenses, while 

the gross Returns are diminished 44 

Sect. 4. — Contrary to the Law of Mortgage 47 

Chapter IV. 
Injury to the Well-being of the Slaves 51 

Sect. 1. — Counteracts the Incentives to Civilization. ... 51 

Sect. 2. — Debauchery and Crime encouraged 53 

Sect. 3. — Virtuous Union of the Sexes impeded 56 

Sect. Ai. — Task- work pi'evented 57 

Sect. 5. — Invidious Feelings excited by promi)ting to a 

general Rush for Freedom 60 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

Chapter V. 

Safety of the Colonies endangered 64 

Sect. 1. — Cultivation superseded 65 

Sect. 2. — Rebellion instigated 66 

Chapter VI. 

No just Analogy in the Precedents adduced by Govern- 
ment 70 

Sect. 1.— Trinidad 70 

Sect. 2.— St. Lucie 73 

Sect. 3. — Berbice 74 

Sect. 4. — Cape of Good Hope 7S 

Chapter VII. 

Responsibility attaching to Ministers if they enforce 
Compulsory Manumission .78 



COMPULSORY MANUMISSION. 



Chapter I. 
WEST INDIA PARTY DISINGENUOUSLY TREATED. 

The West India Question is gradually narrowing 
to a point. There seems now to belittle difference 
of opinion in regard to all safe and practicable 
measures tending to ameliorate the condition of the 
slaves, though the time and manner of their adop- 
tion may be dependent upon local considerations. 

The question of emancipation, or that measure 
commonly designated Compulsory Manumission, 
alone remains at issue. The paramount import- 
ance of this clause, and the alarm felt in every 
West India colony at the threat of government to 
enforce its adoption, has caused the proceedings of 
the colonial department to be closely scrutinized, 
and it has in a variety of publications been charged 
with precipitation. 

A pamphlet has lately appeared in vindication, 
under the title of " Remarks on an Address to the 
" Members of the New Parliament, on the Pro- 



" ceediiigs of the Colonial Department with respect 
" to the West India Question." It is avowedly 
" written by a Member of the late Parliament," 
and bears internal evidence of being the production 
of a gentleman connected with the Colonial Office. 

This pamphlet calls for a reply, for two reasons : 
First, because the writer indulges in recrimination, 
and brings accusations against the West India 
body, which, if passed unnoticed, might produce a 
very erroneous impression on the minds of the mo- 
derate and disinterested portion of the legislature. 

Secondly, because the writer discusses the com- 
pulsory manumission clause, and acquaints us with 
the nature and strength of the reasoning employed 
by government to justify the adoption of that 
measure. 

The general tone of the publication will create 
much surprise, and in one respect it will be of ser- 
vice, in making known the true relations and in- 
fluence of the contending parties. It has been 
asserted by the anti-colonial advocates, and be- 
lieved by a large portion of the community, that 
the West Indians possessed great influence with 
government, by means of which their cause was 
powerfully strengthened. 

If the well-informed portion of the public could 
once have entertained this belief, theit error must 
appear manifest on a perusal of the pamphlet in 
question. The writer expresses himself very un- 



ceremoniously towards those of the West India 
body, who were members of the last parliament ; 
and his tone might lead one to conclude that he 
thinks them not worth conciliation. He seems 
to justify his asperity, by complaining that the 
colonial department is improperly singled out for 
attack in regard to those proceedings which the 
colonial interests do not approve. Now he must 
be aware that, constitutionally speaking, respon- 
sibiliti/ peculiarly attaches to that officer of the 
crown from whose department particular acts em a 
nate. If important measures affecting the colonies 
are carried into effect, while there is reason to 
believe that the Secretary of State for that de- 
partment is in possession of despatches, official re- 
ports, or other information showing their inexpe- 
diency, he will be chiefly looked to for the con- 
sequences ; because it is conceived to be his 
immediate duty to give full explanation of the 
details, both to his colleagues and to parliament, 
and not to incur responsibility for measures he could 
not conscientiously approve. These are rather the 
sentiments of the British nation than of any in- 
dividual party. 

It cannot, therefore, be invidious to canvass 
freely the acts of that particular department. It is 
the obvious and the regular course where grievances 
are felt ; and all our ideas of public principle war- 
rant a belief, that when such grievances are fairly 

B 2 



stated, every officer of the crown to whose depart- 
ment they referred, so far from feeling indignant at 
their exposition, would be anxious to extend his 
protection, in order to have them promptly re- 
dressed. 

Thus viewing the case, our advocate of the 
colonial department cannot mistake the tendency or 
application of any of the comments contained in 
this publication ; and he will be aware that a fair 
spirit of argument alone influences an examination 
of his positions, and of the judgment evinced in the 
manner and tone with which he has maintained 
them. 

This writer endeavours to defend government, 
by charging the West Indians with inconsistency. 
This mode of argument, so frequently resorted 
to in political warfare, in nine cases out of ten 
indicates a feeble cause. It can surely never be 
too late to correct a principle radically wrong. 
But let us examine the charge. 
It is contended, that compulsory manumission 
was clearly laid down in the proceedings of parlia- 
ment in March, 1824; that it was heard by the West 
India members without opposition, which was an 
implied acquiescence ; and that if they now turn 
round to oppose it, they must have been " the most 
" ignorant, incautious, and imbecile body of men 
*' who ever were got together to represent an in- 
'' terest." 



It was well known to the writer of this sentence, 
that the West India members were unanimously 
opposed to compulsory manumission ; and it may 
be added, that a charge, couched in such language 
as this, could not have been expected from such a 
quarter. It may be true, that the West India mem- 
bers did not appeal to the House so early or so often 
as the threatened injustice may have demanded. 
But is this difficult to account for? When West 
India members have come forward to state their 
case, have we not seen it retorted upon them in the 
widely-disseminated publications of the anti-colonial 
party_, in terms of the utmost coarseness : " He is 
a slave-driver : what attention or confidence is due 
to the statement of such a character ?" 

The West India members are indeed in a 
dilemma : if they speak, they run the risk of being 
abused — if silent, they are to be held parties to all 
the acts of precipitation and folly which may take 
place in colonial government. 

It would be unnecessary to touch upon this point, 
did not one remark pre-eminently suggest itself for 
grave consideration. Throughout this pamphlet 
we have the defending of parties^ clashing of in- 
terests, and such terms ; just as if the " Saints" 
and the West Indians were to fight the battle be- 
twixt them, and whichever proved the most cunning, 
or the most persevering, would carry their point. 
And i;s this the language an apologist of govern- 
ment thinks it necessary to maintain .' Can ho have 



forgotten the grounds on which the West Indians 
were induced to commit their cause to the care of 
government ? It was to stop useless or violent dis- 
cussion. It proceeded from the principle, that if 
one party declaimed about alleged oppression of 
the negroes^ and the other about their property, the 
safety of the colonies was the immediate province 
of ministers ; that, as public servants, it was their 
sacred duty to uphold all the possessions of the 
crown ; and that, in watching over their welfare, 
they equally protected the property of the colonists. 
Though this consideration influenced the conduct 
of many West India members, still it is very errone- 
ous to assert, that no explicit opposition was made 
to compulsory manumission at the very outset. It 
is asserted that it passed without animadversion, 
'^ except in a speech of the present Lord Seaford (Mr. 
^* C. R. Ellis), made on the day on which Mr. 
*' Canning uttered his celebrated commentary on 
" its enactments." One would think that dissent 
could not well be more clearly avowed than from 
the lips of the Chairman of the West India body. 
In point of fact, sufficient opposition, consistently 
with the respect which was shown to government, 
was evinced, to prove that the measure of compul- 
sory manumission was from first to last peculiarly 
condemned by the colonial interests. When Mr. 
Canning first made known the intentions of govern- 
ment on this pointj Lord Seaford explicitly denied 
being a party to them. When Mr. Brougham 



brought forward his last motion on the same sub- 
ject, Lord Seaford again gave his reasons for re- 
sisting the measure. To those reasons, not a syl- 
lable in refutation was offered by Mr. Canning. 

Besides these declarations of the chairman, every 
West India petition presented either to the king, to 
parliament, or to the Colonial office, explicitly set 
forth similar sentiments. The agents for the co- 
lonies^ the merchants and mortgagees, early felt 
alarm; and in a petition from these last, pre- 
sented on the 26th April, 1826, to the Lords 
by Lord Redesdale, and to the Commons by Mr. 
Baring, it was stated, " That until it shall be 
" proved, that free negroes will work for hire, the 
^' process of compulsory emancipation cannot even 
*' be experimentally commenced, upon a West 
*' India estate, with justice to the various parties 
" holding legal claims upon the property." 

Surely nothing could be more explicit than this, 
to convey the opinion of the parties most deeply in- 
terested in the question. But the hardy assertion 
of the writer we have quoted, calls for still further 
explanation. This writer must know, that in every 
interview or communication with the Colonial office, 
those of the West India body, to whose opinions 
most weight was likely to be attached, were loud 
and strenuous in their entreaties for forbearance. 
They stated, that the government had not given 
sufficient examination to the case ; that they were 



8 

ignorant of many important local circumstances 
that those ought all first to be carefully and fully 
investigated before a measure of vital importance 
was enforced ; and that, in short, the government 
were already getting into difficulties, and if they 
proceeded further they would get more deeply in- 
volved, and might find it unpleasant, if not impos- 
sible, to extricate themselves. 

To attempt, therefore, to criminate the West 
India party, if opposition be now manifested, is not 
consistent with that impartiality which we have a 
right to expect from a member of the legislature ; 
still less does it indicate the manly candour pre- 
sumed to influence the conduct of an officer of His 
Majesty's government. 

It is argued, again, that a general declaration of 
dissent was not sufficient. The Order in Council 
for Trinidad contained four clauses, showing how 
compulsory manumission was to be carried into ex- 
ecution. That Order was uniformly described as 
the model for the rest of the colonies ; and it was the 
duty of the West India party^ in their subsequent 
proceedings, to move for the rescission of those 
clauses, if they entertained objections to them as a 
model. 

Two reasons may be assigned why the colonists 
deemed it unnecessary to express their disapproval 
of the Trinidad order. First, the tenure on which 
property was held in the British colonies differed 



from that of the Spanish colony of Trinidad. Se- 
condly, it was notorious_, that various portions of 
that order had to be repeatedly sent home for ex- 
planation and remodelling. Was there, then, fair 
reason to believe, that every clause contained in the 
original order would be enforced upon the other 
colonies, while it was yet doubtful if they would be 
finally confirmed even in the colony for which the 
order had been originally framed ? 

Time was afforded the government for reflection. 
It was presumed, that they would learn, by ex- 
perience^ the difficulty occasioned by legislating 
precipitately for distant settlements. This line of 
conduct was dictated by respect for the govern- 
ment. Had the West India body in England 
come forward in a bolder manner than they had 
done to resist the determination avowed by the 
Colonial Secretary of State^ how would they have 
been met? They would have been told by the 
very same parties who are now wilfully misinter- 
preting their quiescence — "You are exciting the 
colonial assemblies to needless opposition — your 
violence will engender contumacy in its worst form 
— remain silent till you know what is their de- 
cision." 

Such reflections undoubtedly did actuate them ; 
but now, when opposition to compulsory manu- 
mission is known to be unanimous throughout the 
colonies which possess legislatures, the West India 



10 

body in England, since repeated warnings and 
admonitions have been vain, do but consistently 
follow them up by appealing in a determined 
manner to parliament, and to the British nation, 
against the threatened intentions of government 
to enforce its enactment. 

All the apologists of the measure seem, in their 
very tone, to be aware of the great degree of re- 
sponsibility to be incurred in carrying it into 
effect ; and hence there is a laboured attempt to 
show, that it is strictly conformable with the first 
proceedings of parliament, and with the resolutions 
of 1823. The West Indians are told, '' in addition 
to your ignorance and imbecility_, there will be the 
charge of shameful inconsistency to bring against 
you, if you now oppose our measures. You con- 
curred unanimously in Mr. Canning's resolutions ; 
compulsory manumission is distinctly contemplated 
by those resolutions ; and can you now propose to 
retract the assent given to them by your former 
votes." 

The West India members had little right to 
expect that such an accusation would ever be 
brought against them. In every stage of the pro- 
ceedings, the whisper was incessantly reiterated 
in the ear of His Majesty's ministers — " Adhere 
honestly to your own resolutions — for the sake of 
justice we call upon you, not to court a vulgar 
and transient popularity at our expense ! " 



11 

And why was it that the resolutions were thus 
implicitly relied on ? Not from any opinion that 
declarations of separate branches of the legislature 
could affect the rights of individuals resting on the 
statute-laws of the realm, but, because the par- 
liamentary resolution contained a principle of 
cautious and practical legislation, and authorised 
the belief that, at each stage of procedure, careful 
examination and scrutiny would precede the adop- 
tion of measures which could be alleged, by any 
party concerned, to infringe their rights or in- 
terests, 

When_, subsequently, statements were made in 
the House of Commons, that government was de- 
parting from this principle, in enforcing compulsory 
manumission, neither Mr. Canning, nor Mr, Wilmot 
Horton, thought proper openly to attempt an ex- 
plicit refutation. 

What is the commentary ? Matters are now 
becoming more critical, and the Executive resort 
to the plea of acting only upon the declared will of 
the legislature in their justification. Let us give 
them every advantage. Let us discuss the pro- 
priety of compulsory manumission, as it agrees 
with the resolutions of parliament ; and if we suc- 
ceed in our endeavours, we shall command the more 
attention, from meeting our antagonists on the 
ground they have themselves selected. 



42 



Chapter II. 

COMPULSORY MANUMISSION CONTRARY TO THE 
SPIRIT OF THE RESOLUTIONS OF PARLIAMENT. 

The first of these often-quoted Resolutions de- 
clares, " That it is expedient to adopt effectual 
" and decisive measures for ameliorating the 
" condition of the slave population in His Majesty's 
" colonies." 

It was to facilitate the accomplishment of this 
object of amelioration alone, that many respectable 
West India planters in England gave their sanction 
to the resolution ; and it is proper here to state, 
that their interference and acquiescence was by no 
means of that sweeping character claimed for it 
by Earl Bathurst in his despatches to the colonies. 
They explicitly declared, that in none of their pro- 
ceedings had they the intention of imposing re- 
straints or difficulties upon the colonial legislatures. 

The Second Resolution is, '^ That through a 
" determined and persevering, but at the same time 
"judicious and temperate, enforcement of such 
*' measures, this House looks forward to a pro- 
^'gressive improvement in the character of the 
" slave population, such as may prepare them for 
" a participation in those civil rights and privileges 



13 

'' which are enjoyed by other classes of His Ma- 
*'jesty's subjects." 

This resolution is the one which the writer, who 
has undertaken to illustrate the views of govern- 
ment, quotes as decisive of the case. He says, 
the object was '* ^ to adopt,' — aye, not only ' to 
" adopt,' but ' enforce ' such measures ' in a deter- 
" mined and persevering, though at the same time 
''judicious and temperate manner,' as would effect^ 
*' — what purpose? — the mitigation of the evils of 
" slavery ? — as would remove the odious imputa- 
" tion of inhumanity adhering to the West Indian 
"planters, so generally prevalent at that time 
'' throughout England, whether true or false ? No : 
" to enforce such measures as might ' prepare them 
^^ for a participation in those civil rights and privi- 
*' leges which are enjoyed by other classes of His 
" Majesty's subjects.'' " 

The writer here deems contingent emancipation 
to be broadly and unequivocally provided, and 
in a very triumphant tone, he adds, " What ! was 
" the intellect of the West Indian members of 
" the House of Commons who were present on 
" that day, so obtuse, that they could not under- 
" stand the meaning of those words ? " 

Perhaps not, to answer the ideas of this writer ; 
but it is to be hoped that the case will be different 
with the legislature at large. It is surely quite 
apparent, that if by this Resolution any legislative 



H 

measure for effecting emancipation had been con- 
templated, the term should be, ^' admit them to 
"a participation in civil rights.'* 

The colonial advocate argues throughout upon 
this most erroneous assumption. The word " pre- 
pare" cannot here admit of two meanings ; it is 
precise, definite, and strictly accordant with the 
desideratum avowed in the first resolution. It was 
not possible to convey in a more explicit manner 
the obvious fact, that the slaves are not as yet in a 
state to receive freedom. By " preparing them," it 
was understood that they had a probation to go 
through ; that their condition had to be materially 
changed and improved ; that, in fine, the fruits of 
amelioration must have been made visible be- 
fore further measures were adopted. May we not 
ask whether this Second Resolution be not as con- 
sistently applicable to the progress which voluntary 
manumissions are making towards an extinction 
of slavery, as to any measure of compulsory manu- 
mission ? In the one case, as in the other, is it not 
expedient to adopt such measures of amelioration, 
as may effect a progressive improvement in the 
character of the slave population, and prepare 
them for a participation in those civil rights and 
privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of 
His Majesty's subjects ? 

What, let us demand, was the object of all the 
powerful and extensive means taken to secure 



15 

moral and religious instruction — of the appoint- 
ment of the bishops and regular clergy ? What 
was it but to enable the negroes to appreciate 
correctly the possession of civil privileges, in order 
that hereafter we might have civilized beings, and 
not barbarians, living in freedom in our colonies ? 

But if there could be the least ground for mis- 
interpretation in the Second, it must be speedily 
removed by attending to the Third Resolution : 
" That this House is anxious for the accomplish- 
" ment of this purpose at the earliest period that 
" shall be compatible with the well-being of the 
*"' slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, 
" and with a fair and equitable consideration of the 
*' interests of private property." 

Here are laid down certain conditions which 
must be complied with in whatever new measures 
are introduced. These conditions constitute the 
strong reliance of the colonists for protection, since 
the letter of them definitely confirms what appears 
to be the spirit of the two preceding Resolutions. 

It may be proper to add that, besides the direct 
declaration of these Resolutions, we have them 
corroborated by the collateral authority of minis- 
ters. In the debate in 1823, Mr. Canning not 
only made no sort of allusion to compulsory manu- 
mission, but that project does not appear to have 
been even thought of. The mode of emancipation 
contended for by the anti-colonial party had for its 



16 

object the freedom of the rising generation of ne- 
groes ; but Mr. Canning both resisted this, and ap- 
peared anxious to check any notion which might 
be entertained, that plans for emancipation of any 
kind were then in contemplation. 

As a further and conclusive proof that compul- 
sory manumission was not, even by ministers 
themselves^ deemed to be implied in the Resolu- 
tions proposed by Mr. Canning, but that it was an 
after- thought of their own, we have the direct and 
decisive testimony of Lord Bathurst. 

In his Lordship's circular despatch to the Go- 
vernors of Colonies having local legislatures, dated 
9th July^ 1823, and consequently near two months 
after these Resolutions were passed, and when it 
is presumed that the executive government had de- 
termined on the details of such measures as were 
to be adopted in furtherance of those Resolutions, 
Lord Bathurst gives a comprehensive sketch of the 
various amendments required in the colonial laws. 

" The next subject," says his Lordship, '' to 
" which I must draw your attention, is the manu- 
" mission of slaves. " 

After expressing his satisfaction, that the prac- 
tice of impeding manumission by the exaction of a 
heavy fine or tax has been discontinued, his Lord- 
ship anticipates a further facilitation to manumis- 
sions, by the concurrence of each colonial legisla- 
ture in the final repeal of all such charges, includ- 



17 

ing all official fees. His Lordship thus appears to 
consider the expense of obtaining emancipation, as 
the chief obstacle which it was incumbent upon the 
colonial legislatures to remove. 

He then proceeds to specify all the remaining 
obstacles which he thinks ought to be removed. 

" The first obstacle to manumission arises from 
the apprehension of this being resorted to by the 
owner for the purpose of relieving himself from the 
burden of maintaining infirm or aged slaves. — A 
second obstacle to manumission seems to arise from 
a presumed legal difficulty, in regard to the incapa- 
bility of a slave to make contracts. — A third, and 
much more serious obstacle arises out of the legal 
limitations to property in slaves ; as in cases of 
entail, family-settlement, or mortgage. — A diffi- 
culty analogous to this arises out of doubtful or dis- 
putable titles." 

How were these difficulties to be obviated ? By 
the compulsory enactments of the Trinidad order in 
council ? No such thing. They were not even con- 
templated. 

" To remove," says his Lordship, " all the pre- 
*' ceding obstacles to manumission, you will there- 
" fore propose to the legislature of your colony to 
** pass a law to the following effect : — Permanent 
*' commissioners should be appointed, who (on 
" application being made by, or on behalf of, 
" any slave, with his master's consenl) should as- 



18 

"certain the names," &c. &c. Pari. Fsup. Sess. 
1824. p. 10. 

This passage attracted much attention in the co- 
lonies. The Court of Policy in Demerara, in stating, 
at a subsequent period, that it could not enact com- 
pulsory manumission, since *' It had not the right 
" to invade the property of its fellow-colonists, by 
" admitting that they can in any manner be deprived 
*' of it contrary to the laws by which it is secured 
" to them," remarked — " This principle is laid 
*' down in Earl Bathurst's letter of the 9th July, 
*' 1823, wherein the consent of the master is distinctly 
" coupled with the application to be made by or on 
" the behalf of a slave for freedom." 

This reply of the court of policy of Demerara is 
copied into a pamphlet, entitled, ^' The West India 
" Question practically considered," with which per- 
formance the Colonial Department may possibly be 
acquainted. It has the important words, " consent 
" of the master," printed as above in italics, as if to 
remind the government more forcibly of its own 
previous statement. 

- After this exposition, may we not venture to ask, 
who most deserves the reprobation of disinterested 
members of the legislature ? The ministerial advo- 
cate, who asserts that compulsory manumission 
was avowed from the outset, or the West Indian 
who can produce Lord Bathurst's own words to 
prove the contrary ? 



19 

It must have been between July, 1823, and 
March, 1824, that the innovation was devised. 
But even at the latter period its bearings were not 
developed. 

Few members of the House of Commons can 
have forgotten Mr. Canning's luminous oration on 
this occasion, when he described the evil con- 
sequences of precipitation, and the difficulties 
which opposed themselves to the termination of a 
state like that of slavery. 

It is not a little singular, that the same passage 
which the apologist of the Colonial office quotes from 
this speech as proving that emancipation was then 
contemplated, may, with far more effect, be turned 
against him. Adverting to the other measures of 
ameUoration, Mr. Canning, on the 16th March, 
1824, observed: "By this process, and by these 
" degrees, may the slave be gradually fitted for the 
" last grand consummation of benefit, the power of 
'' acquiring his freedom." 

The term here used, fitted for, is in strict con- 
sonance with the word prepare, employed by Mr. 
Canning in the outset ; and though he now, for 
the first time, notices Compulsory Manumission, he 
passes it over in a very cursory manner, either as 
if anxious to avoid discussion, or desirous of con- 
cealing its importance. An ordinary observer, on 
reading the more recent despatches sent out to the 

c2 



20 

colonies, in which the views of government were 
stated, would imagine that, in place of the guarded 
expressions originally used, terms impelling to 
quicker and more extensive proceedings had since 
been substituted. 

Consistency is a delicate word to political ears. 
Lest any misunderstanding should arise, or any, 
member of the legislature should conceive himself 
shackled by former votes, it was necessary to ex- 
plain fully to which side the charge attaches of hav- 
ing abandoned former principles. 

Having therefore removed that injurious bias 
which it appears to be the object of the advocate of 
the Colonial Department to raise against the West 
Indians, on the ground of inconsistency, it now be- 
comes desirable to discuss the principle of com- 
pulsory manumission on its own merits. 

It will be found that the opposition of the West 
Indians is not directed against an imaginary evil ; 
that opposition now is very different from those 
minor objections locally entertained against parti- 
cular plans of amelioration ; and that, above all, if 
government, with a view of courting popular favour, 
have innovated upon their original understanding, 
with the West Indian party, they have neither 
chosen the most benevolent nor the wisest mode to 
accompHsh their own end of terminating slavery. 

We propose to pursue the examination upon the. 



21 

grounds marked out by the Parliamentary Resolu- 
tions already quoted, in the order in which the im- 
portance of the several heads may be presumed to 
receive attention from a legislative assembly. 

1. Justice, as regards the right of property. 

2. Humanity, as regards the well-being of the 
negroes. 

3. Sound Policy, as regards the safety of the 
Colonies. 



22 



Chapter III. 

INFRINGEMENT OF THE RIGHT OF PROPERTY. 

Loss of property may be brought upon the Pro- 
prietor of a West India estate in two ways: 

First, By introducing a new tone of feehng 
among the Negroes, and converting good servants 
into bad. 

Secondly, By abstracting such a number of effi- 
cient hands from an estate, that the remainder are 
incompetent to carry on its cultivation in an effective 
manner, or to render its fixed capital productive. 

Section 1. 

THE CONVERSION OF GOOD SERVANTS INTO BAD. 

If we imagine an estate, with a given number of 
negroes, to produce three hundred hogsheads of 
sugar a-year, few will be inclined to doubt the dis- 
position of the proprietor to increase its production, 
if practicable, to three hundred and fifty or four 
hundred. What are the means, then, to effect this 
object, without increasing the number of labour- 
ers ? The proprietor finds himself possessed of a 
number of people, the development of whose full 
capabihty for labour depends upon their treatment. 



23 

If they are prompted to work with willingness and 
satisfaction, skill in the various branches of work 
to be performed speedily displays itself. If thus 
some of the slaves can be converted from ordinary 
labourers into good tradesmen, and if those in 
the field can be taught to use their utmost dex- 
terity in field- cultivation, a much more profitable 
division of labour than hitherto will be accom- 
plished. Through this improvement there is less 
expense in superintendence, there is more work 
procured from the steady government of the negroes 
without rigorous coercion, and the cultivation is 
extended generally, from a better and more skilful 
distribution of the various employments on the 
estate. 

To accomplish this condition of things, the pro- 
prietor is induced to grant to the slaves every 
reasonable indulgence and benefit. He uses a 
discriminating power, bestowing reward upon the 
well-deserving, and withholding it from the vicious ; 
and thus holds up a double example to the rest. 

On the other hand, the slaves, finding that the 
master deals out his favour with strict impartiality, 
are cheered under their labour by the assurance 
that their exertions will be appreciated, and emulate 
each other in assiduity and good conduct. 

It is perfectly evident, therefore, that it is the 
first interest of the master to have the minds of 
his people easy and contented ; and that whatever 



24 

tends to destroy their tranquillity occasions to him 
inevitable loss of property. He will not then be 
able to avail himself of that skill and v^rillingness 
to work above described, and instead of having 
his three hundred hogsheads increased to four, 
which he might otherwise have expected from the 
greater diffusion of intelligence among the rising 
generation, he will have his produce diminished 
to two hundred, and rendered still less and less, 
as discontent spreads and becomes more deeply 
rooted among his people. 

It is one of the worst features of compulsory 
manumission, that it must inspire this discontent. 
Is it surprising, therefore, that it should excite such 
strenuous opposition? The colonists know well, 
that there is not an instance in our colonies of 
free negroes working steadily in the field for hire ; 
and that if their people be compulsorily freed, the 
cultivation of their estates must be superseded. 
There will no longer be a motive for the master, as 
at present, to bestow benefits upon the slave ; on 
the contrary, every indulgence granted would only 
tend to swell that sum which is ultimately to be 
employed to the master's injury. The negroes will 
learn, that benefits must cease to flow to them 
from their masters : hence the interests of the two^ 
instead of being reciprocal as hitherto, become 
directly opposed to each other. 

It is beyond any effort or precaution of the 



25 

master, when he can procure no other labourers^ 
to retrieve the injury he thus sustains. His pro- 
perty is placed at the mercy of his own servants. 
In the practical operation of the measure, his best 
and most serviceable people will become the first 
discontented. They will, as a natural result, be 
directly induced to suppress their skill, zeal, and 
willingness to work, or in other ways depreciate 
their personal value. 

When slaves have the power to enforce their 
freedom from their owners by such a process as 
that of appraisement, those who are of bad cha- 
racter are comparatively rewarded, while those 
who are really meritorious are punished. 

Thus, on the same estate, a disorderly and 
unprofitable slave may be readily parted with by 
his master for fifty pounds, whilst another, a steady^ 
intelligent, and assiduous slave, might, for these 
good qualities, be worth three hundred. Yet, dis- 
proportionate as are the characters and consequent 
value of the two, the desire for freedom will operate 
with both ; but how strikingly unequal are the terms 
upon which they are to obtain the same reward. 
To the one who is profligate and undeserving the 
obstacle is trivial. On the contrary, the meritorious 
slave, applying to his master to know the amount 
of his ransom, finds it magnified above that of his 
fellow sixfold. He cannot fail to be struck with 
the largeness of the amount, and the time rcciuisite 



26 

to raise it. Such an obvious departure from the 
principles of common equity, as this, must engender 
discontent, and prompt the meritorious individual 
to seek for the cause of this difference in value. 
He vi^ill conceive it gross injustice, that a bad 
character, who has always disregarded his master's 
interests, should quickly get his freedom, whilst he 
himself, who has constantly studied those interests, 
must wait for it through a course of years lengthened 
in exact proportion to the value of his services. 

When the measure fairly begins to work, the 
grievance is greatly aggravated. 

It is intended, that a proportion of the capital 
sunk in the lands and buildings of each estate 
shall be added to the value of each slave. 

Earl Bathurst, in his despatch to Sir Benjamin 
D'Urban, of the 25th February, 1826, says: — 

" If, in the process of time, it should be unfor- 
'* tunately found, that the slaves thus manumitted 
" altogether abandon their owners, and refuse to 
" work as free persons, the owner not having the 
*' means, by reason of the Abolition Act, to supply 
" the loss of his slaves, and not being able to engage 
" any free labourer for his sugar-plantations, the 
** price which must then be assigned to the loss 
" of each slave must have a direct reference to that 
" state in which the plantation will be placed by 
^' the progressive reduction of the means of culti- 
" vating it." 



27 

Under this plan it will be the deserving slaves 
who will have to pay for the lands and buildings. 

The higher the personal value of the slave, the 
greater is his r'elative utility to the plantation, and 
the greater must be the recompense awarded to 
the proprietor for superseded cultivation. The 
relative utility of a negro of bad character may 
thus be estimated at not more than ten pounds, 
while that of a trustworthy individual may rise 
so high as one hundred and fifty. In both these 
cases, the respective sums have to be added to the 
slave's personal value, before his master can be 
said to have received an equivalent for his libera- 
tion. If the personal value of a slave of bad 
character be estimated at 50/., the compensation 
of 10/. for his relative utility to the plantation 
being added, will make a sum of 60/. only, as 
the price of his manumission. If the personal 
value of the skilful and zealous slave be estimated 
at 300/., the equivalent of 150/. for his relative 
utility to the plantation being added, will require 
as much as 450/, to be raised for the purchase 
of his manumission. 

Here the impediment is increased from six to 
eight fold. 

But there is yet further injustice. Not only arc 
different descriptions of cultivation carried on in 
the colonies, but the same species of cultivation may 
greatly vary on estates contiguous to each other, 



28 

from diflference of soil, or other local circumstances. 
Accordingly as those circumstances are more or less 
favourable, in a corresponding proportion will be 
the value of the slave, and the appraisers will be 
called upon to adjust this value, thus varying in 
different districts of the same colony. 

Suppose the fixed capital sunk on a coffee or 
cotton plantation to be 5,000/., and that sunk 
on an adjoining sugar plantation to be 25,000/., 
while each possesses the same number of negroes. 
One of these from each plantation, of precisely 
similar capability and character, demands his 
freedom. The first finds there is to be an ad- 
dition of but 10/. to his price ; not from inferiority 
of character or skill, but from the accidental cir- 
cumstance of his living on a plantation where the 
amount of fixed capital is small. The man from 
the latter, the sugar estate, finds it, as before 
stated, so high as 150/., making the difficulty of 
obtaining freedom perhaps double, as compared 
with his companion and equal. The same argu- 
ment would apply even to two estates, which both 
produced sugar, provided the buildings and ma- 
chinery on the one were better and more complete 
than that of the other, or the land more productive. 

Thus, the more extensively that machinery has 
been introduced to facilitate and lighten labour, the 
more will it be to the prejudice of the slaves. 
When the supply of labourers is short, to introduce 



29 • 

the most advanced and highest description of ma- 
chinery is all-important and desirable, and the 
main step to advance a colony to prosperity. But 
in the new measure proposed, this is checked at 
once, because no proprietor Mrould think of an 
outlay, when it could be withdrawn in no other 
way than by pittances wrung from his best slaves, 
in their eagerness for freedom. 

In contemplating these several facts, can there 
be a moment's hesitation in regard to the discon- 
tent created ? Let us imagine a serviceable man 
on a sugar-plantation applying for his freedom. 
He has formed in his own mind an estimate of 
what he ought to pay, and he betakes himself to 
the appraiser, with the money in his hand. To 
his astonishment he is asked a sum far beyond 
his means of payment; he cannot comprehend 
the cause; and no alternative remains to him 
but to go back and brood over his disappointment. 
When he finds his long-cherished hopes utterly frus- 
trated ; when, too, he perceives a worthless fellow, 
distinguished only for idleness and debauchery, 
now sporting and enjoying himself at liberty all 
day long, perhaps laughing at the deserving indi- 
vidual who remains in servitude; when he sees 
his acquaintance on some neighbouring plantation 
attain his freedom, merely from his chancing to 
live on an estate where less machinery was used, 
will he, in common reason, return to his duty a 



30 

contented man? Is he not goaded on to renounce 
his better quaUties, when he is thus made to feel, 
that they are insuperable impediments to the attain- 
ment of his natural wishes? He discovers that 
discontent is his surest remedy ; that he has only to 
display the sullenness which he actually feels ; that, 
in one word, he has but to become a bad subject, in 
order to obtain liberty the more speedily. 

Can then the sturdiest champions of compulsory 
manumission attempt to maintain, that if this man 
was worth a dollar a day before this occurrence, he 
will be worth as much still; and if the return from 
his labour be reduced one-half or two-thirds, will 
any man contend that a direct violation of property 
has not been inflicted ? 

We have confined our attention, hitherto, to the 
most deserving slaves^ because their welfare should 
be chiefly consulted in every new measure. But 
with the gang at large the injurious tendency is 
scarcely less striking. Besides a systematic prac- 
tice of repressing dexterity and usefulness, the 
slave may even resort to bodily disablement, in 
order that his price may be lowered to his means. 
Such practices are known to exist at present, where 
there is no higher temptation than that of idling in 
the sick-house ; and there could therefore be little 
expectation, that the practice would not increase 
under so much more powerful an inducement. It 
is vain to argue, that there are reasons, such as the 



31 



fear of correction from his master or the magistrate, 
of sufficient weight to deter him from this coi^rse 
— the object for which he strives is perpetually in 
his view, and will inspire him to brave in its pursuit 
any present punishment, well knowing that the 
owner's patience must at length be exhausted. 

With the negroes generally, there is also a 
direct encouragement to theft, since, under the pe- 
culiar circumstances of West India cultivation, the 
master's property is, necessarily, much exposed, and 
liable to be stolen by his slaves. Even at present, 
the quantity stolen annually is ascertained to be 
very great. Crime usually increases in proportion 
to temptation ; and, under the proposed enactment, 
the slave must become habituated to fraudulent 
propensities, and all his ingenuity stimulated to the 
commission of secret theft. Thus is caused loss 
of property, both directly and indirectly : directly, 
by the sum taken from the proprietor in the pro- 
perty stolen ; indirectly, by obstructing the steady 
government of the plantation, and occasioning un- 
avoidable loss of labour in the services of the slave. 

These are vital evils ; and can any attempt be 
made to correct them, particularly the most impor- 
tant one relating to self-depreciation ? 

Lord Bathurst, in his despatch of the 25th 
February, 1826, acknowledges, that great mischief 
would ensue, if manumission were obtained by 
other means than those of individual and habitual 



32 

industry; and, in alluding to the possibility of a 
slave's purchase-money being improperly obtained, 
his Lordship observes — 

" For the sake of the community, indeed, such 
*' indiscriminate manumissions ought to be prevent-, 
" ed ; for, undoubtedly, if the purchase-money were 
" obtained from any fund which may be formed for 
'^' the liberation of slaves, there would be no test of 
'* previous habits of industry, of which there is pre- 
" sumptive evidence where the money is procured 
" by the honest earnings of the slave. To supply 
*' this defect it may be provided, that in such cases 
^' a certificate of good conduct for five years should 
" be required of the Protector of slaves, before the 
*' manumission should be completed." 

It is not difficult to perceive, that this idea of a 
certificate is perfectly nugatory. Who is to give 
it ? The Protector, it seems. How is it possible 
for the Protector to judge of the private character of 
the thousands under his charge? Mr. President 
Wray, sitting in the Court of Policy, in Demerara, 
admitted, " that in a population of more than 70,000 
" negroes, the protector could not be supposed to be 
*' acquainted with individual characters." To the 
proposed amendment, that the existence of habits 
of industry and good conduct should be shown 
before the same tribunal which inquired into the 
manner in which the property was obtained, it was 
urged, that no such tribunal would have better infor- 



S3 

mation than the protector himself; and any cer- 
tificate of good behaviour coming from incompetent 
judges, must prove altogether futile as regards 
protection to the proprietor. 

If the framers of the measure had interrogated 
managers or overseers as to the length of time 
and the close attention it requires to understand 
the character of the negroes, even of a mode- 
rately-sized gang, they would have little thought 
of expecting a single public officer to remedy the 
difficulty. 

But if the protectors weve multiplied from one 
to a thousand, and did nothing else but watch over 
the individual character of the slaves, the remedy 
must be fallacious. On the broad principle of the 
measure itself, no system of appraisement, no re- 
ference to previous character, can meet the arti- 
fices which a slave may employ to depreciate his 
value ; because many of such artifices^ depending 
on the suppression of skill or zeal, being of a nega- 
tive character, defy detection ; and, even were they 
detected, detriment to the proprietor's interests 
must ensue, since a willing has been changed 
into a discontented labourer. 

Upon the rising generation, too, of the negroes, 
the operation of the same baneful policy of self- 
deterioration must increase. The whole of the 
youthful class, whose faculties are just dawning, 
will be taught to suppress everything like acuteness, 

D 



34 

and to stifle every indication of future habits of 
industry. 

Compulsory manumission, therefore, contains the 
worst principle of evil, a principle of growth. 
Each succeeding year will make more evident to 
the negroes the means with which they have been 
invested for self-depreciation ; and each additional 
instance of its successful adoption by their fellows 
encourage numbers to resort to the same pernicious 
artifices. 

How miserable, then, is the expedient of 'partially 
questioning certain individuals in the colonies, who, 
thus interrogated, may pronounce that in the present 
condition of the slaves the measure would be in- 
operative, while the same persons, if questioned 
with a view to the future effects of the measure after 
ten or fifteen years of its adoption, would predict 
a widely different result ! 

The writer of the " Remarks" seems unwilling to 
contemplate the future, and condemns prospective 
arguments as speculative and merely matter of 
opinion. But if the negro prefer a stkte of idleness 
to one of constrained exertion, it follows that he 
must earnestly desire to obtain his freedom. If 
he have repugnance to labour, he will seek his 
freedom by those means which are easiest. If 
he possess common reason, he must perceive that 
the easiest of all methods lies in self-depreciation. 
Would it not, then, be contrary to all principles 



35 

of equity or sound legislation, to subject what is 
thus a self-evident proposition to the test of expe- 
riment, since, ere the result of that experiment could 
be ascertained, irreparable injury must have been 
produced ? 

In reality, a part only of the subject has been 
treated of in Lord Bathurst's despatch, and in the 
" Remarks," inasmuch as they regard only those 
negroes who may be freed under the operation 
of the measure, and overlook those who, from 
inability to procure their freedom, still remain on 
the plantation. 

But it has been shown, that greater deterioration 
of property may occur from an improper feeling 
excited among the negroes who remain, than from 
the more direct loss of labour occasioned by the 
abstraction of those who become free. 

Section 2. 

LOSS ARISING, IF A NUMBER OF EFFECTIVE HANDS 
BE TAKEN FROM THE PLANTATION. 

The capital sunk in land, buildings and machinery 
is known to be very extensive in West India plant- 
ations. 

We have now to inquire whether, under the 
mode proposed, the proprietor will receive fair 
indemnification for this capital, from the slaves who 

I) 2 



36 

may obtain their freedom. It is conceived that, in 
every point of view, loss is occasioned ; and that 
while the plan of increasing the price of the slave 
according to his relative utility to the estate is 
calculated to engender the greatest discontent gene- 
rally, it at the same time affords inadequate com- 
pensation to the proprietor, in regard to those who 
may purchase their manumission. 

Lord Bathurst and the writer of the " Remarks" 
consider the means of fair compensation for the 
fixed capital to be secured, as appears in the fol- 
lowing extract from his Lordship's despatch : — 

" If by these regulations an adequate compen- 
" sation be not secured to the owner, it must either 
" be because the persons who are authorised to 
*' decide upon the amount are not likely to be fit or 
" fair arbitrators, or because there are restrictions 
" which will prevent the arbitrators from the free 
" exercise of their judgment. Now it must be ad- 
" mitted nothing can be fairer than the proposed 
" selection of arbitrators in the Trinidad Order : viz., 
" that in the event of the owner and the slave not 
" agreeing on the price of the slave's manumission, 
" the owner should appoint one, the protector of 
" slaves another, and that an umpire should be 
" appointed by the chief judge. It is clear that an 
" arbitration on such principle would protect the 
" interests of the owner, and if there were any ob- 
" jection it would be that the bias was in his favour. 



37 

" As to restrictions or limitations, there are none to 
*' obstruct the free exercise of their judgment." 

To this it may, in the first place, be replied, that 
the principle of appraisement in its practical opera- 
tion supposes the price of slaves to continue to be 
regulated in the West India colonies by competition 
in the market, like commodities in commerce. 

Before we go further, then, let us examine how- 
West India property stands at present. 

The following are the Gazette average prices 
of sugar for the last seven years: viz., 



1820 . 


. S5s. Od. 


1821 . 


. 31 


1822 . 


. 29 4i 


1823 . 


. 34 6 


1824 . 


. 30 lU 


1825 . 


. 38 7i 


1826 . 


. 35 6i 



It might be presumed_, that the amount of capital 
which an individual would be willing to vest in the 
purchase of a property would be proportioned to its 
net returns. But it can be proved, that in 1819, 
65,000/. sterling was offered for a sugar-estate in 
Jamaica, and refused, as below its estimated value. 
About that period it was considered, that the in- 
creasing consumption of sugar, while the means of 
production were limited, presented a very favour- 
able prospect ibr the West India })ianter. Accord- 



38 

ingly, in the year 1820, 70,000/. sterling was offered 
for the abovementioned estate^ and also refused for 
the same reason. But when the proceedings in 
this country in 1823 and 1824 began to operate, a 
mighty change took place. It can be shown that 
distrust gradually arose^ and as the proceedings 
became more and more critical^ in the same pro- 
portion and as quickly did the value of property 
progressively decUne. The demands of alarmed 
creditors from all quarters fell on the planters ; they 
became embarrassed ; and the very same property 
for which, in 1820, 70,000/. sterling had been re- 
fused, when again put up for sale in 1826, found 
no real bidding higher than 32,000/. currency, 
being less than 23,000/. sterling. 

Strong as this instance appears to be, others 
equally forcible could be adduced, of the ruinous 
deterioration of West India property from the like 
cause ; and they exemplify the nature of those boons 
which the writer of the " Remarks" affirms to have 
been accorded to the colonists, and "for which 
" they should feel grateful." 

If a decline in the value of the capital has ensued, 
whilst the price of the produce has remained nearly 
the same, it is proof positive that the depreciation 
of West India property is not attributable to cir- 
cumstances purely mercantile, but that it is owing 
to the proceedings of the British legislature. 
It is essential to keep this circumstance in mind. 



39 

and to examine the mode of appraisement pro- 
spectively, when the . principle of supply and 
demand no longer exists^ as regards the objects 
to be appraised. 

It is apparent, that to allow of a properly-con- 
stituted market-price^, there must be purchasers; 
but if the principle of compulsory manumission be 
admitted, after what has been just stated relative 
to the deterioration in the value of property already 
produced, will any purchaser of slaves be found ? 
Under the manifold evils detailed in the preceding 
section, no capitalist henceforward would think of 
making investments upon West India securities, 
and all transfer of property would be at an end. 

The appraisers are employed to fix a price 
between conflicting representations of master and 
slave. But can a criterion for equitable adjust- 
ment be formed? The slave himself is the only 
purchaser who appears in the market, and in this 
condition of things any mode of appraisement must 
be unjust and injurious to the capitalist which 
assumes that colonial cultivation will continue un- 
changed, in the event of the proposed measure 
being carried into effect; and which does not 
take into the account the aversion which every 
capitalist will then feel to making a precarious 
investment dependent upon the uncertain services 
of the slaves. 

This is founded upon the most simple principle. 



40 

If a decrease in the value of capital have already 
occurred beyond what is attributable to circum- 
stances purely mercantile, and is solely occasioned 
by the threatened measures of Government, it is 
a fair inference that a further decrease would ensue 
if such threatened measures were put into execu- 
tion ; and the effects of that opinion prevailing 
throughout the colonies, must render the chance 
of fully withdrawing the fixed capital more and 
more precarious, as the evils of the measure became 
more widely developed. 

Let us suppose a sugar-plantation, with two 
hundred negroes, worth 40,000/. ; one-half sunk in 
lands and buildings, the other half the value of the 
slaves. Accordingly as the negroes progressively 
free themselves, the 20,000/. sunk in lands and 
buildings has to be apportioned among them, and 
added to the price of their manumission. Now it 
must be recollected, that the whole of the two 
hundred negroes are requisite to carry on profitable 
cultivation. The land and buildings cannot be 
disposed of, or circumscribed to suit a more limited 
business, as would be the case with premises in 
this country when a manufacturer reduced the 
number of his workmen. 

After a number of men, then, are freed, the 
proprietor is left with a great concern upon his 
hands without people to carry it on. To be fully 
remunerated for the property sunk in that concern. 



41 

the people remaining would have to pay, as he 
gradually becomes more and more short of hands, 
a prodigious sum for their freedom. Is it possible, 
from what has been stated, that he could receive 
full indemnification? Let it be recollected^ that 
it will soon be, not a quota, but the entire of the 
fixed capital, which the efiicient negroes, applying 
for freedom, will have to pay to indemnify their 
masters, — and in actual practice can this be done ? 

The writer of the *' Remarks" illustrates the case 
by comparing a sugar- estate to a mill with a num- 
ber of buckets ! The reader, it is presumed, will 
be tempted to smile at the idea of considering the 
negroes as mere passive machines, devoid of those 
feelings, passions, and intelligence, which it is 
their master's chief solicitude to call into existence. 

But, to pass over the narrow and partial view 
of the subject here displayed, even were we to 
indulge the writer in his singular mode of illus- 
tration, it fails to establish his object. He says, 
if twenty buckets are attached to a wheel, and 
four be removed^ the proprietor will be entitled 
to be remunerated for whatever loss of work this 
removal occasioned ; and if the work turned off* 
were diminished, from incompetency of power in 
the wheel, not only in the proportion of twenty 
to sixteen, being one-fifth, but in the proportion 
of two-fifths, then would the proprietor be entitled 



42 

to receive, as equitable compensation, two-fifths of 
the value in place of one. 

Now it is important to reflect, that if four buckets 
be taken away from the wheel, its motion may 
not only be diminished in a greater ratio than 
two-fifths, but it may be stopped altogether. 

This is the proper application of such an illus- 
tration to the circumstances of a sugar- estate. 
If forty efficient negroes be removed out of two 
hundred, being the same proportion as in the 
assumed case of the buckets^ will any person, 
acquainted with the colonies, maintain that culti- 
vation could continue ? An estate which had pro- 
duced two hundred hogsheads of sugar would not 
merely be reduced two-fifths of that amount, that 
is to say, to one hundred and twenty hogsheads, 
but it would be altogether abandoned, because its 
returns would not cover its expenses. 

The author of the bucket-illustration must be 
sensible of its fallacy, if he reflect that at some one 
point, the wheel, from its diminution of buckets, 
must stop. 

The question is, as regards the cultivation of 
sugar, will this point soon be reached ? Little is 
required to be said on this head, if the proprietors 
are prepared to establish the fact, that even at 
present they can scarcely spare one man. 

Lord Bathurst acknowledges, indeed, the ultimate 



43 

improbability that the slaves could of themselves 
indemnify their master for the entire capital he has 
sunk; and his Lordship says, when the price of 
manumission rises from 100 to 500/., then it will 
be time for the nation to come forward. A most 
consolatory prospect! And what are the propri- 
etors to do before the nation does come forward ? 
When the discussion is beginning, and before the 
public are disposed to put their hands into their 
pockets, the proprietor's buildings, machinery, 
roads, dams, are going into dilapidation, and he 
is a ruined man. 

When we prove injury in the principle, it is 
scarcely necessary to descend to discuss the prac- 
tice. Many colonists view with alarm the great 
power given to the Protector, and other officers of 
government. But let us pass over details. It is only 
necessary to reflect upon what the appraiser has to 
do, to perceive that the mode of working must be 
as bad as the design^ and that the whole process 
must be vague and mere guess-work. Even ad- 
mitting the very doubtful proposition, that impartial 
arbitrators could be selected, numerous peculiarities 
may exist to obstruct the formation of a sound 
judgment in regard to the value of a part of the 
planter's stock, in consequence of the manner in 
which the whole is rendered profitable. 

It is to repeat the opinion of every intelligent 
person recently returned from the colonics, to do- 



44 

clare, that it is perfectly impossible for any appraiser, 
no matter how intelligent, experienced, or impartial, 
correctly to estimate the value of a slave, in order 
to award compensation in the manner described 
by Lord Bathurst. 

Section 3. 

PLANTATIONS BURDENED WITH EXPENSES. WHILE 
THE GROSS RETURNS ARE DIMINISHED, 

Having shown, in the preceding section, that the 
fixed capital of an estate cannot be removed, we 
have now to show that the necessary expenses of 
carrying on its cultivation cannot be diminished. 

Each proprietor is by law obliged to maintain the 
aged, the infirm, and the helpless, upon his estate. 
This duty he performs with the utmost cheerfulness. 
He can hold out to his able negroes no stronger 
incentive to good conduct than the assurance veri- 
fied in their parents, that they will pass the evening 
of life in rest and contentment, with every little 
want provided for. The spectacle itself is one of 
the most agreeable which can strike the eye of 
the stranger ; it is peculiarly grateful to the feelings 
of the negro; and most forcibly illustrates the 
happy state of things when benefits are made to 
How from the master alone. Compulsory manu- 
mission severs the link which makes this obligation 



45 

mutual, for it gives to the master all the expense, 
and deprives him of the benefit. 

On most West India plantations not more than 
one-third part of each gang can be considered as 
efficient for field-cultivation, there being included 
the old and infirm, the infant and the helpless, all 
of whom are unserviceable, but vi^hom the pro- 
prietor is bound by every consideration to support. 

The young and able, those in the prime of 
life, and under the strongest influence of the 
passions, to whom all the allurements of idleness 
present themselves in full force, would lose no time 
in avaihng themselves of any opportunity to go 
at large. 

On the contrary, the old slaves on a plantation, 
in whom the ardent passions have subsided, know- 
ing that they must soon come to be exempt from 
work, and entitled to that maintenance gratuitously 
from their master, which in a state of freedom they 
would have to earn for themselves, would make 
no attempt to procure their own liberation, but 
would devote their earnings, and any accumulation 
of money they may have already made, to the 
ransom of their children. 

This double operation, therefore, of the young 
and efficient freeing themselves, or being freed 
by their aged connexions ; and the superannuated 
and infirm remaining to be supported by the pro- 
prietor, would leave the burdens of a plantation 



46 

undiminished, while its ability to bear them was 
nearly annihilated. 

With regard to the other portion, from whom no 
labour is obtained, namely, the infants, the pro- 
prietor is induced at present to treat them with the 
utmost care, were it only for their future value. 
But the prospect of obtaining their future services 
might soon be changed. 

Slavery, considered as an hereditary condition, 
is perpetuated on the side of the mother only; if 
means were taken to purchase all the female chil- 
dren, no calculation regarding relative value could 
be made, and the property of each proprietor must 
become extinct with the lives of his present negroes. 

Now it is fair to apprehend^ that the means of 
obtaining manumission might be improperly em- 
ployed, for the purpose of exterminating slavery, 
regardless of all injury to the capitalist. Whether 
those means would be supplied from a fund raised 
in this country by speculative theorists hostile to 
the colonies, or, whether the slaves themselves 
would be, by such persons, instigated to purchase 
the female children, the result would be equally 
injurious to the proprietor. 



'47^ 
Section 4. 

CONTRARY TO THE LAW OF MORTGAGE. 

Few persons require to be told^ that the proportion 
of property under mortgage in the West Indies is 
considerable. It is singular, that, in the various dis- 
cussions to which the Colonial Question has given 
rise, so little attention has been directed to the 
interests thus involved. Independently of the mort- 
gagees themselves, it is the direct advantage of 
the planters to have every facility open for the 
raising of loans to meet temporary difficulties. 

The act of Parliament, the 13 Geo. III. c. 14, in- 
vites loans from aliens, on the security of leasehold or 
freehold estates, in His Majesty's West Indian Co- 
lonies. The 14 Geo. III. c. 79 legalizes the taking 
of interest by British subjects, for sums advanced 
on mortgage, and securities of any lands, tene- 
ments, hereditaments, slaves, and other things, at 
the rate allowed by the law of the colony where 
the mortgaged property lies. And the 3 Geo. IV. 
c. 47, further regulates the rate of interest, and 
extends its provisions to persons advancing capital 
in this country. 

On the faith of these enactments, large invest- 
ments on mortgage have been made. Slaves are 
recognised in them, as property in fee-simple, 
absolute, which has been confirmed by decisions 



48 

in our courts, both of law and equity. Conse- 
quently, all mortgagees rest their security not on 
Colonial enactments, but on British Acts of Par- 
liament; and the law relating to mortgaged pro- 
perty in the colonies must be analogous to the law 
relating to mortgaged property in England. 

By the law of England, when woods or mes- 
suages are included in a mortgage, none of those 
woods or messuages can be sold or alienated, 
either collectively or in part, by the mortgagor, or 
by any other known authority, even though the 
proceeds of such sale should be appropriated to 
the benefit of the mortgagee, without the express 
consent and concurrence of the latter ; the law 
giving to him the sole privilege of determining as 
to whatever may affect his security. 

By the same law of England, when slaves are 
expressly specified in a mortgage on West India 
property, neither the proprietor, nor any other 
known authority, can legally sell such slaves, even 
though the proceeds be applied in liquidation of 
the mortgage, unless it be with the previous con- 
sent of the mortgagee. 

Yet it does not appear, that Earl Bathurst has 
explicitly provided for the claims of the mortgagee, 
who has lent his money in the firm reliance that 
the law has guaranteed, both to himself and to the 
mortgagor, the full effects of the stipulation of the 
mortgage contract. 



49 

But if the slaves, being in law real property, 
on which the mortgagee holds a lien, be permitted 
at their will to separate themselves from the plan- 
tation, it must weaken the security of the mort- 
gagee, by removing the instruments through which 
the fixed capital was rendered productive, and by 
the employment of which for the benefit of the 
mortgagor, there was a reasonable confidence that 
the mortgage might ultimately be redeemed. 

And in regard to the purchase-money paid by 
the slave to his owner, as the price of his libe- 
ration, if the amount go at once into the hands of 
the mortgagee, it is an injustice to the debtor, 
because he had a right to expect a rate of profit 
from his cultivation, much higher than the mere 
interest paid for his loan ; and it is illegal, because 
it is beyond the terms of his contract with the 
mortgagee. 

If, again, the money be deposited in some public 
chest, it is illegal and unjust to both parties : 
unjust, because the removal of an efficient hand 
entered not into the calculations of the owner of 
the plantation, and by the decrease of its produce 
from subtracted labour, he finds his debt not di- 
minishing but growing larger, while the mortgagee 
runs the risk of losing his money; — illegal, because 
the stipulation forms no part of the mortgage 
contract. 



50 

When we show that illegality is added to injus- 
tice, we may close the case on the part of the pro- 
prietor. 

Let us sum up the objections. 

If not one man is freed_, compulsory manumis- 
sion changes his good slaves into bad ones. If 
any are freed, he gets inadequate remuneration 
for their loss. It unjustly makes the burdens on 
his estates perpetual ; and in case of mortgages, 
is contrary to the statute-law of the realm. 

Is compulsory manumission then compatible with 
a fair and equitable consideration of the rights of 
private property ? Will any member of the legis- 
lature be willing to confirm an act of the executive, 
which is expressly contrary to the Resolution to 
which Parliament became pledged in 1823? 



51 



Chapter IV. 
INJURY TO THE WELL-BEING OF THE SLAVES, 

It is presumed, that the great object contemplated 
by the British nation is to civihze the blacks living 
in our colonies. The crime of taking them from 
their own country is long past by ; but it surely 
cannot be intended to compensate them for their 
former wrongs, by replunging them into barbarism. 
Yet it is to be feared that this is the consummation 
to result from compulsory manumission. 

Section 1. 

COUNTERACTS THE INCENTIVES TO CIVILISATION. 

A free peasantry in the colonies is the desideratum 
sought by the framers of the measure. It is argued, 
that men are creatures of habit, and that if the negro, 
by voluntary industry, amass such a sum as will 
procure his ransom, the habit of working will have 
become firmly established, and he will continue to 
labour when he has obtained his freedom. 

This argument has been entirely refuted by the 
simple question. What is the motive for exertion in 
the two cases ? Before the negro became free, he 
had the strongest of inducements perpetually pre- 
sent to his mind — the attainment of freedom, or 

E 2 



52 

the privilege of enjoying himself uncontrolled. It 
was not for the money that he worked, but for that 
which the money would procure him. When he 
has, at length, attained his freedom, what motive 
has he to work further ? Name one object, equi- 
valent, in his estimation, to the irksomeness of 
labour; the one-inspiring aim is attained, the sti- 
mulus is gone. 

But it is not enough for our purpose to show, that 
industry is eventually superseded. We can establish, 
that the very means held out are themselves the most 
efficacious in producing this pernicious result. It is 
said that men are creatures of habits, and do not 
speedily change them. We meet our opponents on 
this ground. 

If you demand of a man, living in a country 
imperfectly civilised, for what reason he works, 
he will answer, that he may purchase food. But 
put the same question to a man in a state highly 
civilised, and he will reply, that besides the pur- 
chase of food, he requires good clothing, lodging, 
and other comforts which have become habitual to 
him, and in which custom would make it disre- 
putable in him not to indulge. 

Let us apply this to the negro in the West Indies, 
At present his artificial wants are extremely 
low ; and if certain habits, such as above described, 
have to operate hereafter upon him as incentives 
to exertion, is it not requisite that they should now 
begin to be established? Suppose a negro, by 



^3 

rearing stock of various descriptions, can earn a 
dollar per week — should he not be taught to lay 
out that sum in the purchase of articles, for instance, 
of personal decoration for himself and family, or 
of additional conveniences in his hut, in the display 
of which he will henceforth take a pride ? 

By such means it must be, that, in the lapse of 
time, he will feel that he must work longer than 
is merely necessary to procure him food, because 
he has other wants to satisfy. 

But compulsory manumission directly counteracts 
this process. It prompts him to the most sordid 
self-denial. Its language to him is — " Spend not 
your weekly dollar, but rather hoard it with the 
most scrupulous rigour ; improve not the condition 
of your family : — in a word, confine your wants to 
the state of the savage." 

The necessary consequence will be, that when 
he attains to freedom, all his physical wants remain 
unchanged. And are these the boasted steps 
which have been taken to elevate the condition 
of the slaves ? It is certainly a novel mode of esta- 
blishing a free peasantry, to commence by divesting 
them of every stimulus to exertion. 

Section 2. 

DEBAUCHERY AND CRIME ENCOURAGED. 

It will not have escaped the observation of the 
intelligent reader, that if compulsory manumission 



54 

leads to self-depreciation, by directly suggesting 
and encouraging a suppression of dexterity and 
usefulness, the same end may be attained by de- 
basing the moral character. Every species of 
debauchery is, in point of fact, encouraged, to con- 
strain the proprietor to offer little impediment to 
the freedom of his slaves. 

Good conduct frequently renders a negro more 
valuable even than skill, and it thus becomes a 
principal impediment to the attainment of his free- 
dom. In the case of a drunken, worthless character 
on a plantation, the proprietor, instead of opposing 
his liberation, will be glad to get rid of him at a 
small amount, because he is continually giving 
trouble and setting a bad example. 

If there be any truth in the maxim of moralists, that 
the road to vice is alluring in itself, what must be the 
result when men are urged upon it, by the strongest 
incentives which can be supposed to operate with 
them ? The profligate slave may purchase his free- 
dom within a year, — the virtuous has to wait for it 
ten years, and perhaps all his life, without success. 
What is this but to teach him, in the most emphatic 
manner, that if he were but profligate and worthless, 
he would find no such difficulties? Under the 
common operations of human nature, it is impos- 
sible, when the whole moral code is reversed — when 
virtue is punished and vice rewarded, that any 
number oi" men in a state like that of the negroes 
will continue virtuous. 



55 

We shall here be again reminded about the 
certificate of good character which is to be required. 
But if this question be to be discussed at all by 
men of business, it is surely time to dismiss this 
alleged safeguard of a certificate. It can never, as 
we have shown, be of the least avail in reference to 
skill ; and as a real preventive it must equally prove 
nugatory in regard to moral conduct. Without 
intending any disrespect, it must be pronounced 
to savour a little of the ludicrous. 

Let us suppose some measure introduced into 
one of the counties of England, affecting its popu- 
lation as vitally as compulsory manumission affects 
the slaves in our colonies, and what would be 
thought of any person who should gravely propose, 
that a public officer, amid other multifarious duties, 
should certify minutely as to the individual cha- 
racter of every man in the county ? If we were to 
circumscribe his jurisdiction to a few square miles, 
or even to a few streets of one town, the thing 
must plainly be impossible. 

Dissimulation, hypocrisy, and craft, are often de- 
scribed as the parents of crime, and they will be in- 
evitably resorted to, to screen the vices of the slave. 
His maxim will be, Let me become a vicious subject, 
to lower my value with my master, and let me be- 
come an adept in cunning to deceive the protector. 

The higher his intellectual attainments, the easier 
will it be for him to j)ractisc this deception with 



56 

success ; and while^ as has been shown in the pre- 
ceding section, the beneficial attributes of future 
civilisation are checked, the slave is habituated to 
its corruptions. 

None of the palliators of the measure can get over 
this conclusion^ that if flagrant crime be not openly 
encouraged, it cannot be denied that it is fostered 
secretly. How many will be the plans laid for 
stealing in the dark ; and for this evil there is no 
cure. If the delinquent be detected, it depreciates 
his character, and, consequently, his value ; and^ 
if undiscovered, it swells the fund which is to make 
him frep. 

Section 3. 

VIRTUOUS UNION OF THE SEXES IMPEDED. 

If we wish to infuse a higher sense of moral feeling 
among the slaves, it is indispensable to elevate their 
ideas in regard to the virtuous union of the sexes. 
There is no one of the measures of amelioration 
which has attracted more attention^ or which is 
more desired by the British community. 

We often hear that there is too great a temptation 
to immorality in this particular among the colonists. 
It may undoubtedly be true ; but still illicit con- 
nexions are materially checked by the dread of 
bringing into existence an offspring whose lot by 
birth would be slavery. 

If compulsory manumission be enforced, this 



57 

salutary barrier is removed, because the freedom of 
any female slave could be purchased by the person 
desirous of cohabiting with her^ and her offspring 
would be free. Thus^ on the parties colluding to 
take advantage of the new measure, the greatest 
mischiefs would accrue to the community. 

If this practice once obtained, and were found 
easy of accomplishment, the female slaves would 
have a powerful inducement to court illicit con- 
nexion with the whites, in preference to marriage 
with men of their own condition. One of the chief 
objects of amelioration would thus be frustrated, 
and the offspring of these connexions become liable 
to be left destitute in case of the sickness, absence, 
or death of the father, and consequently thrown 
upon the casual charity of the public. 

Besides the immorality thus in the first instance 
produced, how fruitful a source of future crime is 
presented ! 

Section 4. 

TASK-WORK PREVENTED. 

When we examine the measure as it will more 
immediately affect the domestic government of each 
plantation, we find objections equally forcible with 
those already stated. 

In none of Mr. Canning's orations on the subject 
has he been so eloquent as when he described the 
effect of abolishing impending coercion, upon the 



58 

feelings of the slave. He depicted in the most 
powerful manner the beautiful effects that would 
ensue when the slave performed his work with 
alacrity, and his condition assimilated to that of 
the voluntary labourer. It was here that he expa- 
tiated upon the wisdom of allowing benefits to the 
slave to flow from the master, since it would incite 
them to work without the necessity for coercion. The 
system of task-work would be introduced, which 
perhaps is the greatest practical improvement in 
the condition of slavery. 

It is quite evident that this system can only 
exist with the agreement and reciprocal feeling of 
both parties. The slave knows well that his master 
can return to the old system at his will, and this 
reflection is the chief cause for establishing the im- 
provement. The master knows well, that the law 
empowers him to keep his slaves at work till six 
in the evening ; but he considers that^ if he can 
elicit their spontaneous skill and assiduity, they 
will get through an equal quantity of work by an 
earlier hour, and will pursue their labour cheerfully. 
He is therefore disposed to approve of task-work 
wherever it is practicable, both under the influence 
of that more humane spirit which pervades the 
colonies, and from the desire to save himself the 
trouble and expense of superintendence in the 
field. 

Under this beneficial regulation, the negroes are 



59 

found to complete their day's work by as early an 
hour as three or four o'clock, having then the 
remainder of the day at their own disposal, to 
earn money for themselves. The master never 
thinks of objecting to such earnings, which benefit 
his people without injuring himself. On the con- 
trary, it is to his advantage, by increasing their 
contentment, the salutary operation of which we 
have described in a preceding section. 

But let compulsory manumission be insisted on^ 
and how differently will he then contemplate the 
earnings of his slaves ! At present their little funds 
are spent in harmless amusements — in adorning 
their persons, and giving Christmas and other holi- 
day entertainments, in which it is their delight to 
mimic the manners of the whites. But change 
the scene, and let them employ their earnings to 
procure their freedom, and what will be the 
master's course? He will be constrained, in self- 
defence to stop their means of earning. He will 
discontinue task- work, and keep his negroes work- 
ing until six o'clock, as the law allows him. 

Let us banish Utopian views from our thoughts, 
and consider, as practical men, is it ever to be 
expected — is it reasonable, that colonial proprietors 
would act otherwise ? You drive them to it. They 
have vested their property on the express declara- 
tion of the law, that they are entitled to the labour 
of their slaves until six o'clock. You cannot change 
this hour lor an earlier one, without iiil'ringing the 



60 

rights of property, in a manner which could never 
possibly be contemplated by any legislature . There 
is therefore no regulation which can obviate the evil. 
Task-work, consisting of a multiplicity of details, 
cannot in its very nature be commanded or enforced 
by any other authority than that of the master. 
Its beneficial effects upon the slaves consist in the 
master's entering into their feelings, and giving 
them encouragement precisely in the degree that 
personal trouble in management is removed. 

When property in slaves is made but a precarious 
interest, dependent upon the slaves themselves, it 
is no more than the truth to assert, that a rigorous 
system of coercion, such as prevailed in the colo- 
nies some twenty years ago, would return. 

If it be argued, that this involves a contradiction 
in reference to the contentment, described as being 
the proprietor's chief object to establish, let it be 
recollected that he is now in a dilemma. If he 
allows his slaves to accumulate earnings, they may 
be employed to his own total ruin ; he has therefore 
to get, as speedily as possible, the utmost degree 
of work from his labourers that the law allows him. 

Section 5. 

INVIDIOUS FEELINGS EXCITED BY PROMPTING TO A 
GENERAL RUSH FOR FREEDOM. 

Several of His Majesty's ministers, in various 
declarations and speeches, have alluded to the 
institution of slavery in ancient times : and availing 



61 

themselves of the great experience thus presented 
for guidance and direction, have affirmed that the 
same measures of amehoration should be introduced 
to mitigate slavery in the West India colonies, 
which had in times past mitigated slavery in 
Europe. By obvious analogy, if the experience 
of times past be the true guide in measures relating 
to amelioration, the same experience should be 
the guide for measures relating to emancipation. 

Let us examine, then, if this be the case. 

In all ages and records of history, and in every 
nation on the globe in which slavery has existed, 
the difficulties of manumission have become less 
and less as civilisation advanced. But by the mode 
of operation laid down by Lord Bathurst, the diffi- 
culties in the present case must gradually increase. 
In a gang of one hundred negroes^ the first man 
applying for freedom would have his relative utility 
to the plantation estimated at a small sum, the loss 
of the services of an individual not materially im- 
peding its cultivation. But if thirty or forty men 
were to be abstracted from the estate, the sum to 
be assessed as relative utility must rise in a rapidly 
increased ratio, the remaining hands being wholly 
incompetent to render the fixed capital productive. 

Supposing, then, the measure to possess an exe- 
cutory principle : in the first year, according to its 
projectors, a man might procure his freedom at 100/. 
At the end of the second year, a man of precisely 



62 

the same capabilities and abstract value would find 
the price of manumission risen to 150/. At the 
end of the third year it might rise to 200/. ; and 
so on, progressively, until it mounted to 500/., or 
a still higher sum. 

This is the operation consequent on the terms em- 
ployed by Earl Bathurst, and subsequently, indeed' 
explicitly avowed by him, to illustrate the measure. 

It has been considered, and repeatedly declared 
by His Majesty's ministers, that a progressive 
amelioration in the condition of the slaves, the 
diffusion of moral instruction, the just appreciation 
of the blessings of a pure religion, and a gradual 
reformation in manners and opinions, should con-, 
tinue to exercise their salutary influence, until 
slavery insensibly glided into freedom. 

Yet compulsory manumission proceeds in express 
contradiction to this principle. It teaches the slave, 
that the sooner he demands his freedom the easier 
it will be for him to succeed. It discourages the 
idea of delaying till the morals be improved by 
instruction, and it urges him to rush forward at once 
by the most expeditious course, by teaching him, 
that those only who delay incur the danger of dis- 
appointment. 

The public at large have been harangued about 
the gradual operation of the measure. What will 
be their surprise when they understand, that the 
meaning of such gradual operation simply is, that 



63 

the difficulties in attaining the object sought should 
become greater by degrees instead of less? It is, 
indeed, a notable specimen of legislation, to an- 
nounce to theslaves, — Now that you are ignorant, 
you may procure your freedom for 100/. ; but some 
years hence, when you have improved by instruc- 
tion, you will have to pay five times as much. 

Under such excitements, a measure which works 
on the predominant passions of men, awakening 
in them mutual feelings of envy and distrust, 
prompting each to take advantage of his fellow, 
and universally forestalling the fruits of civilisation, 
must be utterly incompatible with the well-being of 
the slave. 

Who, therefore, can maintain, all the circum- 
stances enumerated in the foregoing sections taken 
in conjunction, that compulsory manumission is in 
conformity with the Resolution of Parliament? 



64 



Chapter V. 
SAFETY OF THE COLONIES ENDANGERED, 

The correspondence of Mr. Canning with Mr. 
Galatin, lately published, evinces plainly the im- 
portance which is attached to our transatlantic pos- 
sessions. It cannot be supposed that a minister of 
state will hold one tone to a foreign power, and a 
different one to ourselves. 

It is on occasions of public diplomacy, when our 
own policy is opposed to that of the great rising 
republic of America, that the full swell of public 
opinion makes known the extent of interest felt by 
the British nation towards her colonies. 

The love of dominion is natural to mankind, and 
few like to lose what they have once possessed ; 
but, with the reflecting part of the nation, this 
feeling is strengthened by the consciousness that 
slavery itself will be promoted by the destruction 
of the British colonies. Foreign nations will take 
up what we abandon ; and if we are still to con- 
sume sugar, the state of the continental markets 
proves to a demonstration that that consumption 
will be supplied by slave-labour, and not by free 
labour from either east or west. 

Hence the safety of the colonies not only affects 



65 

the dignity of His Majesty's crown, which ministers 
have sworn to uphold ; but it combines every con- 
sideration on this question which can influence the 
conduct of an independent member of the legis- 
lature. 

If, then, there ever was a measure which involved 
a dilemma, it is that of compulsory manumission. 
It must either be operative, or, from the restric- 
tions with v^hich it is fenced, it must be inope- 
rative. 

Let us view it in both ways. 

Section 1. 

CULTIVATION SUPERSEDED. 

It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the nature 
of the colonial system assumes the production in the 
colonies of commodities possessing exchangeable 
value, to be transported to the mother-country for 
sale, and tending, in the various relations of their 
transport, to promote and invigorate the national 
commerce. 

But if the negroes free themselves in the manner 
proposed, this commerce must cease. 

The writer of the " Remarks" has made one ac- 
knowledgment which greatly abridges the necessity 
for argument or examination on this head. He says, 
that no instance has yet occurred of free negroes 
working steadily for hire in the field, in the British 



66 

colonies; and that it is not to be expected that 
Ihey will so work, until their physical wants have 
been augmented. 

Now it has. been shown, in the first section of 
the preceding chapter, that those wants, instead of 
being augmented, or even established, are effectually 
checked by the new measure. If there could be, 
in the first instance, a hope that cultivation might 
hereafter be conducted by free labourers, it is 
destroyed in its bud ; and precisely in the degree 
that the negroes are freed, will the value of the 
colonies decline. 

Political economy is now the fashion. All who 
are connected with the Legislature, or who take a 
part in public affairs, are anxious to display their 
proficiency in this science. Without further com- 
ment, an appeal is made to them to pronounce, 
on weighing well the reasoning referred to_, if pro- 
fitable cultivation in the colonies will not be su- 
perseded. 

What, then, would be the object of protecting 
those colonies ? They would virtually be lost to 
this country, in express contradiction to the de- 
clared policy of the Legislature. 

Section 2. 

REBELLION INSTIGATED. 

On the other hand, let us suppose compulsory 
manumission inoperative ; that Government discover 



67 

its latent difficulties, and that they wish ostensibly 
to enforce its enactment while they fetter it with 
restrictions to prevent its practical working. 

Here it is conceived that still more disastrous 
consequences would ensue. You tell the negro that 
he has a right to purchase his freedom ; and when 
he comes forward to claim it, he finds himself mocked 
and imposed upon. 

In common reason, is this the kind of legislation 
we are to expect after the many warnings we have 
had of negro susceptibility, and the well-grounded 
conviction that there are embers, only wanting one 
kindling breath to involve the whole colonies in 
destruction ? 

Since the agitation of negro emancipation, within 
these few years past, a great excitement has pre- 
vailed among the slaves^ and mischief on no com- 
mon scale has occurred, merely from the delusion 
practised upon the negroes as to the pretended 
benefits intended them. During the insurrection 
in Demerara, when the insurgents were told by the 
governor, of the new laws and indulgences to be 
granted them, they received the boon with com- 
parative derision ; they said, to quote the words of 
the Governor's despatch, that " those things were 
"no comforts for them; that they were tired of 
" being slaves ; that their good King had sent orders 
" that they should be free, and that they would not 
*' work any more." 

p2 



68 

By obvious analogy we may judge of the danger 
if an inoperative law be now passed. To inspire 
hopes which can never be realized, is at any time 
bad ; but in the case of the slaves, it is to render 
them for ever dissatisfied with their lot, and to 
arouse every angry passion in their minds. The 
strongest indignation, therefore, should be expressed 
at attempts made to palliate the manifold errors of 
the measure, or to procure the unreflecting con- 
currence of parties locally interested, by represent- 
ing that it might ostensibly be allowed to pass^ if 
rendered inoperative, because then no harm can 
result from it. Such a mode of proceeding to all 
parties concerned, both master and slave, would be 
unworthy of the British Government, and not more 
disingenuous than impolitic. 

Imagine, for a moment, the feelings of a slave, 
who_, relying upon the efficacy of the law pro- 
mulgated, applies for his freedom, but finds all a 
fallacy ! Think of his baffled hope — the pinings 
of the heart — the burning sense of injustice ! And 
it is all-important to reflect, that the obnoxious 
object of these excited passions will be the master, 
or the resident proprietor. The negro will never 
believe that he has been deceived by the King of 
England. He will decide, that the King has con- 
ferred on him the boon, and that it has been inter- 
cepted by combination of the colonial proprietors. 

The negroes are just beginning to be sensible 
that amehoration is different from what they first 



69 

imagined it. Proclamations and proceedings of 
the governors have tended to check their fatal im- 
pression that a life of idleness was now at hand ; 
but if you disturb the existing tranquillity, if you 
again raise the delusive cry of " Freedom!" may 
we not apprehend that kindred spirits^ brooding 
over their fancied wrongs, will coalesce, and dis- 
content thus swell into rebellion. It is vain to 
disguise or cloak the measure. Every colonial 
proprietor knows the excitement that will always 
be kept up by the anti- colonial party. " If I am 
to be robbed," he will say, " rather let me suffer 
at once, than be kept in perpetual dread of ruin. 
If a slave worth 300 /. comes to demand his free- 
dom, better suffer a loss of 100/. than send him 
back with a refusal, for assuredly he will never 
be a peaceable or good subject again." In his own 
defence, therefore, he must refuse to sanction any 
modifications of a measure which will equally injure 
himself, and endanger the pubHc safety. 

Whether, then, compulsory manumission con- 
tain an executory principle, or otherwise, it is 
incompatible with the safety of the colonies. 

We have now contemplated the measure in every 
point of view, and it must be emphatically pro- 
nounced to be contrary both to the letter and the 
spirit of the Resolutions of both houses of Parlia- 
ment. 



70 



Chapter VI. 

NO JUST ANALOGY IN THE PRECEDENTS AD- 
DUCED BY GOVERNMENT. 

A THOUSAND precedents would never justify a bad 
measure— it may therefore be deemed superfluous 
to offer a remark on this head ; but as Mr. Canning 
has argued, that whatever is adopted in one colony 
can safely be introduced into all the rest^ and as 
this maxim has been taken for granted by many 
persons willing to save themselves the trouble of 
thinking, it is necessary to enter into some expla- 
nation. 

Sectio7i 1. 

TRINIDAD. 

When the order in council for negro treatment 
was sent out to Trinidad, great objections were 
offered, both generally, and to the individual clauses 
which constitute compulsory manumission. 

It is not necessary here to inquire how often that 
order has been altered, or the reasons why the 
colonists of Trinidad have been constrained to 
submit to the authority imposed upon them. We 
have only to show that the case of that island differs 
from that of the other British colonies. 



n 

Trinidad was originally a Spanish colony ; its 
laws were framed previously to the abolition of the 
slave-trade, and have continued unaltered since the 
cession of the island to Great Britain. 

Now it is apparent that, when fresh slaves can be 
procured, compulsory manumission is not so objec- 
tionable ; because the place of those who purchase 
their freedom can be immediately filled up by 
others. 

It has consequently been considered that, while 
the slave-trade was in active operation in the 
Spanish colonies, the practice of manumission was 
encouraged, as increasing the means of preventing 
insurrection. 

But it is surely unfair to hold up to the imitation 
of another colony the enactments and usages intro- 
duced by one whose laws were adapted to a state 
of things so different ; and to require that the pro- 
visions of a code adapted to the existence of the 
slave-trade, should be engrafted upon other codes 
framed since its abolition. 

The order in council for Trinidad has not affected 
the principle of the Spanish law, or rather the prac- 
tice in the Spanish colonies^ which allows a slave to 
enfranchise himself by purchase . But the British law 
in our settlements gives no such right whatever to a 
slave. 

According to those codes, the interest of an 
owner in his slave is that of a fee-simple absolute : 



72 

he purchased upon that tenure^ he has continued to 
hold upon the same, and cannot be deprived of 
that legal title without a direct violation of pro- 
perty. 

In Trinidad it is otherwise : a person purchasing 
a slave in that colony, knows beforehand that he 
acquires only a precarious title in such a slave, 
which depends on the ability of the slave to pur- 
chase himself. 

Nor has sufficient time yet elapsed to make 
known the great difference in the working of the 
measure that must take place now that the slave- 
trade has ceasedj contrasted with the period when 
it was in active prosecution. 

It ought also to be stated, that the hardship and 
evils of the law in Trinidad, even subsequent to the 
abolition of the slave-trade, had not been so much 
felt, from the nature of its laws not being generally 
known in this country: consequently, there was 
no extraneous excitement upon the subject given to 
the minds of the negroes. 

But now, when this excitement has been given, 
the brief experience already afforded, tends strongly 
to corroborate the arguments we have advanced ; 
and it is credibly asserted, that the Secretary for 
the Colonies has received representations and ap- 
peals, proving evils to have proceeded from the 
operation of this law. 

Among these evils, theft is shown to have in- 



73 

creased ; and the proceedings before the local 
magistrates are said to evince a progressive demo- 
ralization amongst the negroes. 

It is further known, that instances have occurred 
v^here the sum assessed by the appraisers, as the 
price of manumission, has been higher than the 
negro was able, or considered himself entitled, to 
pay ; and the being sent back under these circum- 
stances has visibly produced in him a sullenness 
and discontent exactly as has been described, and 
in all probabiHty as injurious to the interests of his 
master, as if he had obtained his discharge at his 
own valuation. 

From these circumstances, it is apparent that 
there is no analogy between the case of Trinidad 
and that of the other British Colonies, and that 
thus far no proper precedent is established. 

Section 2. 

ST. LUCIE. 

In regard to this colony, the measure has been but 
recently introduced^ and without the spontaneous 
concurrence of its inhabitants. It was established 
there by the force of arbitrary authority. There 
was no adequate court or power, similar in consti- 
tution and functions to the Assemblies in the other 
islands, to resist its promulgation ; and the threat 
conveyed in the despatch of Earl Bathurst to the 



74 

Governor, thus amounted to an imperative mandate 
for the adoption of the measure as law in the colony. 
Is this a precedent ? 

Section 3. 

BERBICE. 

The case of Berbice is still more flagrant. This 
colony possessed, a short time back, a council 
composed of persons having property at stake. 
Before the enactments relating to the slaves in that 
colony were brought forward, this council was dis- 
missed, and another arbitrarily appointed, consist- 
ing of persons having no interest in the cultivation 
of the colony. 

It was previously declared, that the new laws 
relating to the slaves, in whatever way they might 
be finally settled, should not be carried into opera- 
tion at Berbice, unless the same measures were at 
the same time adopted in Demerara. In the latter 
colony, all the measures relating to amelioration 
were received, and compulsory manumission alone 
rejected; but in Berbice, the new council, so ap- 
pointed and so composed, passed the latter measure 
contrary to the wish of every proprietor in the 
colony. 

It ought moreover to be stated that, before the 
new laws were promulgated in Demerara, they 
were sent home to Lord Bathurst for confirma- 



7Si 

tion, upon which his Lordship observes, — " The 
" King has been graciously pleased to approve 
'' the decision that you adopted, of referring the 
*' draft of the Act to his Majesty, for his considera- 
" tion, instead of immediately promulgating it as a 
*' law in the colony." 

But how does the new Council of Berbice act ? 
The most important of all the new measures they 
carry at once into effect ; that is to say, they allow 
no opportunity for parties in England to carry 
remonstrance or explanation to the foot of the 
throne. 

Again, let us ask, is this a precedent ? What is 
the meaning of the term ? does it not warrant the 
inference, in this case, that some assembly, com- 
posed of parties interested, have given their con- 
currence? But how marked is the difference 
between a council composed of persons possessing 
little or no property in slaves, and a court where 
several of the members hold large plantations, and 
are deeply interested in the permanent prosperity 
of their colony. 

The possession of this large stake by the mem- 
bers, and the circumstance of having delegated 
interests to represent, peculiarly conduce to safe 
and practicable legislation. Such circumstances 
present a security against precipitancy^ — prompt 
to a careful and minute consideration of all local 
peculiarities, — and procure for every public mea- 
sure a full and patient examination of all its rela- 



76 

tions, both direct and contingent, before it is per- 
mitted to be put in execution. 

And further, in respect to any one of these West' 
India cases, has there elapsed a time sufficient to 
enable us to estimate the policy of the experiment, 
and still less to pronounce upon its fitness for the 
whole of our West-Indian possessions ? 

Section 4. 

CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 

How this colony should be referred to as a pre- 
cedent it is difficult to explain. Its climate differs 
materially from that of the West Indies. In the 
latter, the evils apprehended from giving freedom 
to the slaves arise from the impossibility of pro- 
curing free labourers to supply their place. It is 
but a very short time since emigration from this 
country to the Cape of Good Hope was greatly 
encouraged ; and it is ascertained, by experience, 
that Europeans can work without injury or incon- 
venience in that climate. 

Thus the supply of voluntary labourers not only 
existing, but increasing in that colony^ the induce- 
ments to perpetuate slavery must progressively 
expire, and slaves may consequently be freed 
without injury to the property of their owners, or 
danger to the public safety. 

From this obvious difference in physical circum- 
stances between the West India colonies and the 



77 

Cape of Good Hope, there is no just analogy be- 
tween the two; and though compulsory manu- 
mission may be enacted in the one, it cannot, there- 
fore, be taken as a model for imitation to the other. 

This straining after inapplicable precedent clearly 
indicates deficiency of argument. 

No enactment containing inherently a principle 
of evil, even though acceded to willingly, or acqui- 
esced in passively, by individual bodies, should 
ever be set up by a wise government as an example 
for general adoption. 

It has been more than once remarked in Parlia- 
ment, by persons of high character, that the prece- 
dent generally existing throughout the Spanish colo- 
nies served as a sufficient ground for the measure. 

But there are two points which should never be 
omitted in reflecting on the question : 

I. As to the opportunity of procuring other la- 
bourers. 

II. The difference of amount sunk in fixed capi- 
tal, between the Spanish colonies and those of 
Great Britain. 

In regard to the first, fresh labourers can be 
procured in the Spanish colonies, but cannot in the 
British; and in regard to the second, there must 
surely be some difference in the working of a mea- 
sure when the amount of capital to be withdrawn 
varies in the proportion of 20,000/. in the one case, 
to a few hundreds in the other. 



78 



Chapter VII. 

RESPONSIBILITY ATTACHING TO MINISTERS IF 
THEY ENFORCE COMPULSORY MANUMISSION. 

Whoever notices the levity of manner with which 
this question is treated, would imagine that our 
constitution had undergone a change, and that His 
Majesty's advisers were relieved from responsibility 
for the acts of the executive. On any occasion it 
is a rash step to counsel the crown to important 
measures before a full investigation has been insti- 
tuted. But when a step is taken so contrary to the 
laws of the realm, as, by eminent law-authorities. 
Compulsory Manumission, in regard to mortgaged 
property, is conceived to be, responsibiliti/ ceases 
to be an idle term, and circumstances may arise 
from it to disturb the peace of a minister of state 
much longer than he anticipates. 

It can never be too often repeated that, so far as 
legislation for the negroes is concerned, what is 
once done is irrevocable. In other public measures, 
an opportunity is afforded to a minister, when he 
makes a false step, to change his policy by a dex- 
terous manoeuvre. But no such resource being 
afforded in the West India Question, we should 
conclude that more cautious deliberation would in 



79 

the first instance be exercised, and that a full ex- 
amination would take place before excitement was 
created by announcing even the heads of a new 
measure. The proceedings hitherto have been on 
a principle directly opposite. While the Irish 
Question remains undecided, though more than a 
generation has passed by since it commenced ; and 
while the Corn Question has stood over until argu- 
ment on the subject is exhausted: In the West 
India Question — where, wrong measures being 
once taken, all remedy is hopeless- — the parties 
whose whole property is at stake cannot be al- 
lowed more than the lapse of a few weeks, to put 
on record all their objections to the most essential 
innovations. 

This presents an anomaly in the history of public 
measures, and it can only be accounted for by 
supposing that ministers, amid their many duties, 
have completely undervalued the importance of 
the measure now pending. This conclusion is 
confirmed by what is understood to be their lan- 
guage to independent members of the legislature 
whose suffrage they solicit in future discussion. 
They say the principal opposition of the West 
Indians is no more than idle and transient clamour. 
It is merely of a piece with what has been always 
witnessed. When the abolition of the slave-trade 
was under discussion, did we not hear the cry, that 
our ancient colonies would be ruined ? That great 



80 

measure was carried, yet no ruin ensued. When 
the Registry Bill was brought in, had we not a 
similar clamour, that the most dangerous excite- 
ment among the slaves would be the consequence ? 
That point, too, was carried ; yet no such direful 
evils attended it. Again, when the recent Ameli- 
oration Clauses were proposed, how furious was 
the opposition in the colonies^ — the proprietors 
there were to be utterly ruined. Many of these 
clauses have since been enacted^ even where op- 
position was strongest at the first, and yet no 
injury or change has taken place! What is the 
inference in regard to compulsory manumission? 
We have strenuous opposition at present^ it is 
true ; but when the measure is once carried, that 
will soon subside, and all the frightful features of 
danger which have alarmed the colonists will turn 
out to be mere phantoms of the imagination. 

Now, in answer, may we not allege, in the first 
place, that the objections urged against those former 
measures were not groundless. Our abolition of 
the slave-trade, without securing the effectual con- 
currence of foreign powers in a similar act, has 
transferred from British to foreign colonies the 
principal supply of Europe with sugar, and without 
the smallest benefit to Africa. The Registry Bills 
are an enormous tax on our impoverished colonies, 
and it is not to them we owe the extinction of our 
colonial slave-trade. Of our recent Amelioration 



81 

Clauses, the effect in diminishing production is as 
yet more certain than that of increased benefit to 
the negro-population. 

In the second place, may we not pronounce that 
the case we are now submitting is very different 
from any of those cited ? 

But in this age of superficiality, where all labo- 
rious investigation seems exploded, and when a 
well-turned period of declamation in Parliament 
sways the nation, let us take another mode of 
pointing out the difference of this case. 

In those important measures which were passed 
some time back, the Government carried a great 
number of colonial proprietors living in this country 
along with them. How different, then, on prima 
facie evidence, must be the nature and bearings of 
the measure now proposed, when colonial proprie- 
tors, who have always acted with ministers, are 
constrained, as a solemn duty in defence of their 
properties and of their families, to oppose it stre- 
nuously ! It is evident, that to occasion such a feel- 
ing, there must be something in the measure 
alarmingly important, and demanding the most 
cautious scrutiny. 

In former times, the letters sent out by colonial 
proprietors in England to their friends in the colonies 
impressed upon the latter, to do all that they were 
able, to silence clamour in England ; but with regard 
to compulsory manumission, the lesser evil is 



82 

chosen, and the admonition is, " Beware of passing 
this measure, and thus committing yourselves by 
your own act. Throw all the responsibility upon 
ihinisters, that you may hereafter have full claims 
for indemnification.'' 

The question then resolves itself into this, — Are 
ministers, considering the situation in which they 
are placed, and having a due regard to their own 
fame, prepared to take this responsibility upon 
themselves ? Do they rely upon the passing 
opinions of the day for their support? Lord 
Bathu¥st says^ in his despatches, that the colonial 
legislature " may be assured, that from the final 
accomplishment of this object this country will 
not be diverted." 

Now it may be true that, with the unthinking 
populace, the extinction of slavery is desired ; but 
what practical statesman would take this vague 
expression of feeling for his guide ? It may safely be 
affirmed, that the intelligent portion of the commu- 
nity are aware of the difficulties, and expect from 
Government, not what is theoretically to be desired, 
but what is practically and wisely attainable. 
They are not prepared to lose our West India 
colonies, which are believed to contribute largely 
to the prosperity and strength of the kingdom ; nor 
are they at all disposed to inflict injustice upon 
their fellow- subjects, knowing well, that whatever 
odium may now attach to the colonial proprietor, 



the charge of having countenanced slavery is one 
which he shares with the whole British nation. 

But it ought further to be known, and well re- 
flected on by His Majesty's ministers, that humane 
and enlightened individuals, not anxious for the poli- 
tical so much as the moral grandeur of the country, 
who waive every notion of expediency, and consider 
the cause of humanity as paramount, are beginning 
to entertain doubts as to the wisdom of the proceed- 
ings of Government. 

This is not vague opinion, but is founded on 
weighty reasons. 

First : That it is the object of British humanity 
to exalt the entire African race, and to accomplish 
it as a matter of genuine philanthropy in the most 
o-eneral and efficient manner. 

It appears by parliamentary documents, that as 
cultivation, during some years past, has decreased 
in the British colonies, precisely in the same degree 
has the slave-trade of foreigners increased. 

To ruin or deteriorate the British colonies is thus 
to encourage the horrors of the slave-trade, and to 
increase the sum of African suffering. 

Therefore, it being the object of the British 
nation to abridge that suffering, and not to make a 
mere display of sensibility, if the proposed mea- 
sures can be proved to be destructive of cultivation 
in the British colonies, their spirit must be pro- 

G 2 



84 

nounced to be contrary to the sentiments of the 
country. 

And, Secondly : That having long since com- 
mitted the crime of transporting the negroes to our 
West-India colonies, it is expected by the British 
nation, that the welfare of future generations will 
be contemplated ; and that, hereafter, a black 
society may be witnessed, possessing in itself the 
attributes, moral, intellectual, and political, of a 
civilized people. 

So strongly does this sentiment pervade the 
nation, that it is common to hear the inquiry — 
" What are the negroes to do when free ?" implying 
the belief that rash interference may have proceeded 
far to accomplish the object, but that judicious legis- 
lation has stopped short on the threshold. 

If we were to make an appeal to Lord Bathurst, 
and to all who have taken an active part in the 
promotion of compulsory manumission, must they 
not acknowledge, that since the agitation of the 
subject in 1823, a considerable and perceptible 
change has taken place in public opinion, in con- 
sequence of tlie inquiry relative to free labour ; and 
that the idea of having a free negro peasantry 
labouring under a tropical climate for hire is im- 
practicable and hopeless. 

Does not, then, the whole question depend on 
free labour? 



85 

We cannot but infer, that when the relations and 
consequences of granting freedom to the negroes 
by compulsion are fully understood in all their 
widely-spreading effects, the opinion of the country 
will be as strongly expressed in reprobation, as 
Earl Bathurst pronounces it at present to be in ap- 
probation of the speedy adoption of the measure. 

Without any disrespect it may be stated, that 
some of our ministers, who are upborne by the 
current of public applause, have had sufficient ex- 
perience of the fickleness of popularity. Let us 
recall to mind the wise precept of Mr. Canning 
in 1819 — " Speak not the will of the populace, 
but consult their benefit." 

We appeal to each member of parliament to 
further this counsel. The question of negro eman- 
cipation is virtually before them. It is conceived, 
by all those whose properties are at stake, to be 
presented in its most objectionable form, and they 
unanimously oppose it. Before deciding on the 
subject, let every member reflect on the sentiments 
of two of our greatest statesmen. 

Mr. Pitt, in every discussion in which negro- 
emancipation was agitated, pronounced, that it was 
an act which must " flow from the master alone." 

When that presiding genius of the country's com- 
mercial greatness was no more — when Mr. Fox 
had coalesced with Lord Grenville, — and above all, 
when the whole anti-colonial party, with Mr. Wil- 



86 

berforce at its head, had joined his ranks, Mr. 
Fox, in the full tide of his popularity and his power, 
declared — 

" That the idea of an act of parliament to emanci- 
'* pate the slaves in the West Indies, without the 
*' consent and concurrent feeling of all 'parties con- 
" cerned, both in this country and in that, would 
*' not only be mischievous in its consequences, but 
" totally extravagant in its conception, as well as 
" impracticable in its execution." 



the end. 



LONDON: 

Printed by W. CLOWES, 

Stamford-street. 



