Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witin funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettertowilliamwOOcawt 



A 



LETTER 



T O 



William Wilberforce, Efq j 



ON 



z fundamental Mezfave for a Parliamentary 
Reform ; 

On the glaring Impolicy of the 
Dissenter's Bill ; 

AND 

on the Folly and Fatality of abolilhing 

THE. 

SLAVE TRADE. 



L o N don; 
Frintcd by J. JOHNSON, 



.710 









C 3 ) 


t 




L 


E 


A 

T T 


E R. 



T O 



William Wilberforce, Efq; 



Publica Salus. mea Merces. 



S I R, 

X T mufl give great pleafure to 
a free and enlightened People to fee their 
Caufe, in either Church or State, defended 
by the moil refpedable Charafters, whofe 
conftitutional principles and public Exertions 
do honor to their Country, and who arejuftly 
admired by a liberal Nation. The rcafons 
afiigned in Parliament, on a late occafion, in 
defence of the eftablifhed Church, are worthy 
of fuch diftinguifhed Charafters, and their 

patriotic 



( 4 ) 

* patnotic Principles, as well as their animated 
Exertions, fhew how well they will again 
. deferve the Confidence of their Conflituents 
^ at the approaching General Eledion. 

Great Britain is, in my apprehenfion, par- 
ticularly interefled, at this critical period, to 
check that refllefs and dangerous fpirit of 
emancipation and infatuation which pervades 
Europe, and may fubv^rt the heft as well as 
the worft Government, when it arifes frorn 
fpiritual or temporal Fanaticifm, that is, 
when it proceeds from miftaken notions of 
either religious or civil Liberty. 

Hence it was truly and indeed nobly ob- 
ferved that ^' if at any time the moil liberal 
*^ men were difpofed to remove the Reflric- 
^* tions of either Church or State, the un- 
. «f par^alleled fpirit of the prefent period, 
^' would render it highly impolitic, as being 

*' extremely 



( 5 ) 
*^ extremely dangerous to both our religious 
" and civil eftablifhments." 

This feafonable remark of an able Statef- 
man;, proves more than volumes written a- 
gainfl Innovations^ and conveys fo much in- 
ftrudion to the found Politician as will, I 
hope, check a fpirit of Adventure, and pro- 
duce the happiefl Eifed in Ireland, where a 
^ery little indujiry would probably bring about 
their emancipation (fo much defired by the 
Oppofition of that Country) after the recent 
examples of America, France, Sec. if not 
prevented by an UNION, which is therefore 
a meafure of fo much Confequence to the 
two Nations, in the prefent temper of Ireland, 
and the alarming fituation of Europe, that 
1 humbly conceive it ihould be delayed as 
little as poflible, by the Britifh Cabinet, 
which is attentive to the true Principles of 

the 



( 6 ) 

the Conftitution, and to the true Intereft and 

Dignity of their Country at home and 
abroad. 

I think I have had the honor to obferve, 
in former Publications, that I am an Enemy 
to Innovations of the Conftitution, but a 
Friend to Meafures of found Policy which 
bring things back to the Principles of that 
excellent Conftitution. 

For inflance : the Democracy feems, in 
fome refpe(5ts, to be an abufe of the Confti- 
tution. To remove the Evil fo mudi felt 
and fo long complained of, is what I call 
bringing things back to the Principles we fo 
jiiuch admire, and which feem to be fo much, 
departed from in that part of ourLegiflature, 
or there would be no reafon to complain, 
nor any occafion for a REFORM, fo well 
undcrftood by .a noble Duke and a Right 

Honourable 



( 7 ) 

Honourable Gentleman, now higb in office^ 

pf the rsioft liberal Sentiments and the moft 
diftinguiQied Abilities, 

^s thefe eminent Statefmen have formerly 
exprefled themfelves concerning a Parlia- 
mentary Reform, and as chara<5lers fo highly 
diftinguifhed for conilitu|:ional Principles 
and political Talents, and which rank fo high 
with the Public as well as with Government, 
feem fo be engaged to the Nation in th3.t 
popular caufe, I refpeftfully wifh to offer a 
few words upon the fubje6l before it comes 
again under public confideratipn, although I 
^m clearly of the Opinion which a noble 
Lord of diftinguifhed Charader has done 
me the honor to give upon the fybjedt, that 

^^ hpwever greatly a Parliamentary Reform 
*f may be wanted, and however ably planned, 
" there is no room to exped that any will 
*' be carried into execution/' 



( s ) 

Of a PARLIAMENTARY REFORM, 

j\/lANY Politicians have fpoken ably and 
written forcibly -upon the fubjed : But-^ 
CuiBonof Have not their well informed minds 
{ince been convinced, that inilead of reform- 
ing the Parliament, the Parliament JJoould 
reform itfelf — by regulating the conflituent 
Body 9 Thofe enlightened Statefmen, with 
Virtue for their Obje6t and Truth for their 
guide, will not, I hope, take offence at my 
prefuming to think that the Doctrine hitherto 
maintained, with fo much ability, ^*of a 
^^ Reform of Parliament'* was not orthodox. 
—Adverting to the EffeEl without attending 
to the Caiifey defeats the falutary purpofe by 
beginning at the wrong end. 1 humbly conr 
ceivc that the REFORM (hould begin with 
the conflituent Body, from which arifes all the 

defeft of the Conftitution, and all the Cor- 
ruption 



( 9 ) 

ruption fo much complained of againft the 

reprefentative Body. 

Notwithftandins; all that has been faid of 
a Parliamentary Reform, and all that has- 
been expedted from it, it feems to be as 
clear as any mathematical demonflration that 
the caufe fhould precede the effe5f ; and, con- 
fequently, that the creative power of Delega^ 

tion [hould be clearly afcertained as the firft 

« 

and moft elTential ftep for reforming the 
power of Reprefentation. 

I am, as heartily as any man, a friend to 
•^^ a Reform of Parliament,'* but I am uh*' 
friendly to the nieans by which it is wifhed 
to be reformed ; becaufe it is, in my opinion> 
beginning at the wrong end, and lofirig fight 
of the creative power of Delegation from 
which all the Evil feems to arife, and in 

B which 



( 10 ) 

tvifi* d«e* is tb^ be fotirt^^^ eflfe£!ua{ re- 
medy, in my apprehcnfio^n. 

Thefubjejft is. popular^ but it is amiflake 
to think that it is not as much the interefl: of 
Minifters : I niean good minifters, luch as 
the prefent^, who think well and ad right ; 
and whofe Principles and Meafures will bear 
the flrongeft light. Such well chofen Mini^ 
ft^rs, who are fincere- Friends of the People 
as well -as faithful Servants of the Crown^ 
will have no objection to J/jort Parliaments^ 
at leaft.I think they ought not ; becaufe, 
were the Delegates of the People to reftore 
their authority often to their Conftituents^ to 
gratify the colledive Body, fuch a patriotic 
Adminiftrafion, confcious of the beft Prin- 
ciples and; the hippiefl Exertions, and how 
much they deferve and receive the Confi- 
dence of the Public, will have more to hope 



than 



( M ) 

Bjoidyjfwe fio the Iniereft of their Couatpy, 
w^J^, n^qefl^rilf, fupport the Miia^:e;|^^. 4:wbo 
ire fotijjji* toy Experience of ch^ir ikbii^-ties 
and Principles, to be th« beft qdalifi'^d to 
promote at home and abroad, the B|:«pft>^ri*y 
and Dignity of tlie Nation. 

I have fb clear ^ conviiflion of this triuh, 
thkt I am confident it will evidently appear at 

the approaching GENERAL ELECTION ; 
when the People, underft^nding their own 

Intereftj and the feciirity of their Rights amd 

Property, will make a judicjioBs cjiftiniftion 

between the Sophiflry and Deluiioii of 

OPPOSITION, which endangers private 

Property and contolfes public Credit, and 

the eminent Services of Mr. Pitt's Admiiii- 

llration, and return his oid Friends with 

many new ones in the next Parliament. 



( 12 ) 

Such Minifters of the People as well as df 
the Crown will, therefore, chearfully fay, 
?^ If the Public exped to reform abufes which 
^^ are crept into the democratic Power, let 
^* them be reformed ; but let it be done in 
^* a manner that (hall at once a/certain the 
^^ right @f the confiituent Body, and be prodiic- 
*^ tive of great advantage to the Revenue, ^^ 
This Meafure of public Utihty is founded on 
a popular Principle, fmce whatever increafes 
the Public Stock leflens the neceffity of 
Taxation and the burthen of Induffcry. 

As the Authority and Effects of Parlia- 
ment manifeftly arifc from that creative 
Power, it is clearly the firfl and great obje6t 
of Reprefentation to ascertain that right : 
For, what can be fo neceflary as that the 
power of Delegation ihould be clearly un- 

derflood 



( 13 ) 

derflood and wifely fixed prior to that of 

Reprefentation which arifes from it ? 

To afcertain tiie right of the Eledlors, fo 
that it may be clearly underftood and not 
abufed for any private or party purpofe, is 
a great objetft to the People — and indeed 
their greateft objed:. 

To make it conducive^ by a general 
Regifter, of that Body, to the purpofes of 

Revenue, is as great an object to Govern- 
fnent. 

Sir, were Inftances wanting of the abfoiiite 
neceffity of a Reform of the qonftituent 
Body, we have one in your own City of 
Weflminfter, which is the reiidence of the 
yftCharaders in the Kingdom, whofe fplen- 
Talents and patriotic Principles would 
<^^\nor to the moil polifhed State, and to 

the 



( 14 ) 

the mod enlightened Age. Tlie Evil ^t 

your own Door calls aloud to the Guardians 
of the Nation for a Remedy ; and to their 
Honor as well as to that of a mofl able and 
adiive Executive Power, the voice of the 
Public, like the voice of God, will be at- 
tended to, if Report fpeaks true. 

Whenever that happy period arrives, to 
remove the alarming Evil, by fixing the Right 
of Ekclion in IVefiminJier clearly and perma- 
nently, by a plan that fhall raife a large fum 
of money for the public fervice, it will not be 
only a proud day for the peace and good 
order of the City and Liberty of Weftmin- 
fler, but a day of joy to the whole Nation 
as io wife and produdlive a meafure will, \?- 
doubtedly, become general. 

For inilance : ^^ Every Inhabitant ^ the 

City 



( 15 ) 

City and Liberty of Weflminfler^ whcth'er 

Houfekeeper or Lodger, or even a nOn Refi- 
dent, as in the cafe of London, •&€. who 
fhall have qualified, within a time to be 
limited by the wifdom of ^PaLrliament, by 
the pur chafe of his Freedom (the Peers ex- 
cepted) fhall, on producing fuch qualifica- 
tion duly-ftamped, which is anotiier advan- 
tage to the Revenue by the increafe or 
flamps, have a right to vote for Reprefen- 
tatives for Weftminfler. A pubHc reglfter 
will deted: counterfeits. I propofe that the 
qualification (hall not become hereditary^ 
by defcending from Father to Son, or from 
Mafter to Apprentice, as in London, but that 
it fhall be renewed by every generation : 
And, by confequence, all other Inhabitants, 
whether Houfekeepers or Inmates, fhaI1, by 



this 



C i6 ) 

this Regulation^ be difqualified as having no 
right to vote at -the Election of Members of 
Parliament for the faid City and Liberty." 

Here, Sir, is, in my appreheniion, a re- 
medy for Bribery and Peijury, and for all 
the moral and political evils attending them. 

The conjiituent Body, which we are now fb 
much to feek for, to the reproach ofGovern- 
ment, and to the difgrace of an enlightened 
Age, will then boldly Hand upon RECORD 
with juftice and perfpicuity, by a general 
Regifter of the Eledors to which the parties 
concerned may eafily have recourfe. 

What can be fairer than the Principle or 
happier than the Tendency ? In the former 
the People will have the belt fecurity for 
tlieir dearefl right •, and in the latter Govern- 
ment will have the beft means of railing 

money 



mm-!: ■ .-.v ■T*'^" ■ tr^^';* ^>-'..- 



( ^7 ) 

money for the public fervice, by voluntary 

contribution, and confequently without bur- 
tbenin-g thofe who are unable to pay it. 

I claim a right to anticipate rny refpedful 
congratulations on an event fo deftrudive to 
confuiion and vice, and fo conducive to 
good order and virtue, by which the happy 
effects of well-regulated and peaceable Elec- 
tions will equally promote the great objedl 
of a free people and the great purpofe of 
Revenue. 

Sir, I think I fee the early effeds of this 
found Policy, in an overflow of the People 
coming to the Office to take out their Free- 
dom, to qualify them to vote for Reprefen- 
tatives for Weftminfter, as the Eafl India 
Proprietors quaUfy to vote for Reprefenta- 
tives in the Diredion. What an acquifition 

C of 



( i8 ) 

of property, by voluntary contribution, to 
lelTen the neceffity of taxes ! What an ac- 
cumulating fund for the purpofes of fuch an 
Adminiftration as the prefent, who improve 
the Revenue with the beil principle, and 
apply it with the happiefl effect 1 

The extent, the trade, the opulence of 
Weflminfter, and the confequence to which 
it is rapidly advancing, from the wealth 
and rank of numerous Inhabitants, the public 
Offices, and the overflow of wealthy com- 
mercial People from the Eafl of London and 
from abroad, feems to render this method of 
chooling their Reprefentatives upon the long 
eftablifhed and peace promoting Principle 
of the City^of London, very eligible, both 
in regard to the money it will produce, and 
the peace and good order, fo much wanted,, 
which it will permanently eftablilb. 



( '9 ) 

How well this method of raifing^ money 

for the public fervice, by voluntary contri- 
bution, and promoting peace and good order 
at Eledions^ which is fo great a moral and 
political objed: (for the prefent licentioLis 
ftate of the conftituent Body is a burlefque 
upon our admired Cohftitution, a mockery 
of Liberty with the malk of Licentioufnefs, 
an infult to all Government, and a reproach 
equally to Church and State) How well a 
meafure of fuch a tendency applies to other 
PJaces I do not prefume to fay to a Gentle- 
man fo well informed 5 but I am of opinion 
that whenever the great objects which my 
regulation for Weftminfler embraces- are^' 
underftood and the happy effedls are felt, 
equally by the convenience of ^ the People 
aii^ the advantage of the Revenue, it will 

lead 



e.-^.-ae^ MiJLj e X» 



( 20 ) 

lead to a general Reforaa of the conAiruent 
Body apon the Principle that I have had the 
honor to fuggeft, as the beft fecurity for Re- 
prefentation and the greateH advantage to 
Government, and confequently as the bell 
plan fo^r a Parliamentary Reform, which is. 
fo much defired, but, in my humble opinioni 
not fo well underftood. 

An Innovation of the Democratit: Part of 

our Legiflature is an event to be dreaded, 

as a political Peftilence, fince it would con- • 

vulfe and endanger the whole frame of our 

moil excellent Conftitution •, but fuch a 

regulation as fhall, by a general Regijler, 

fix the qualification of Eledors throughout 

the Kingdom and make them, by 2.purchafe 

of that qualification, raife a confiderableFund 

for the falutary purpofes of the State^ is an 

Event 



"■ 'I ■ll *l lfila»«ei^ aM:' «»? - gaft»i»^fc*»ii«ji^BB^«^»3i»aM»»^«a«jniMMBaiyBja«iaMi» 



( ^I ) 

Event of great public Utility^ and a meafurc 
that is manifeilly neceffary, both as it wilt 
afcert'in the right of the conftltuent Body, 
and operate as a material REFORM of the 
delegated power of Reprefentation called 
the Parliament. 

Of the. 

DISSENTERS BILL. 

J Subfcribe heartily (exanimo) to our happy 
Conftitution in Church and State ; and be- 
ing fully convinced of the Virtue and Wif- 
dom of both Eftablifhments, I hold up my 
Hands and raife my Voice againft the refl- 
lefs and contagious fpirit of Innovators, w^ho 
wiili to deftroy the Barriers of the one, whicl\. 
will fap the Foundation of the other, b^'" 
abolifhing necelTary Reftridions founded on 

the 



( ^2 ) 

the ibundell Principles of the Church, and 
the fhrewdefl Policy of the State. 

It is, in my apprehenfion, extremely dan- 
gerous, and confequently highly impolitic 
to admit the horrid Do&ine of that reillefs 
ipu'it of Innovation and Em.ancipatiofi from 
every Reftridlion of Church and State, which 
pervades Europe, and is haftening to infe£b 
this credulous Nation with religious Difputes 
which are generally the mod uncharitable, 
and therefore the woril fort of Contention 
for good Government and the Peace of the 
Community. 

To fappofe, upon this levelling Principle, 
that a liberal fpirit of Toleration, which 
happily charaderizes this Nation, ihould 
place the Dilfenters fi-om the eftablilhed 
Church upon a footing with the profefled 

Religion 



( 23 ) 

Religion bfthi s, or any other jCountry, is a 
Dodrine as dangerous as it is abfurd : It is 
the Doctrine of folly and fatality, contrary 
to the good Policy of every well-regulated 
GoTernment, and big with Confulion and 
Mifchief to Church and Stare. 

i am an enthufiafhic Admirer of the found 
Do6lrine imputed to the learned Warburton^ 
but which exited in all ages of Religion 
and good GoVemment, that ** there is i 
Rdation between Church and State/' Indeed 
rthink'they are fo nearly allied that the e- 
flablifhed Government cannot long fubfiR 
without the eftabliih^d Church. The pre-. 
fervation of the latter is abfolutely neceiTary 
to the exiftence and energy of the former. 

Sir, this well-judged UNION of things 

fpiritual and temporal, as by Law eftabliflied, 

is 



E^uaGBiaaBE^ 



( M ) 

is fo well underilood in this Country, that 
we have always thought (or why expel the 
Royal Houfe of Stuart ?) that whatever 
threatened the one would convulfc and 
overthrow the other. It was the fecurity 
of the Church, as eftablilhed by the wifdom 
of the Legiflature, that made us look to the 
fecurity of the State in the illuftrious Houfe 
of Hanover, which is engaged, in the moll 
facred manner, to preferve the former as the 
beft means of fecuring the latter, from a fun- 
damental Principle of Government, that 
^' the Religious and civil Eflablifhments of 
•^ every Country fhould be indiflblubly 
*^ united, fince the former cannot be (haken 
** without convulfing and endangering the 
« latter." 

This 



( 25 ) 

This neceflary and infep arable Union be- 
tween our religious and civil Eflablifhments, 
convinces me that whenever numerous Dif- 
fenters from the eflabliflied Church are 
emancipated^ as they wifh, from the found 
policy of our Government^ which binds 
them \Y'nhJtlken cords of affediion and libe- 
rality, their reillefs, medling, and ambitious 
fpirit, will be as dangerous as the Principles 
of the Catholic Religion, and like ^'Swarms 
" of Locufts in Egypt that ate up every 
^*^ green thing," they will probably be as 
great a Peftilence to the Body poHtic, as the 
Contagion of. Turkey is to the Body 
natural. 

I fee this fpirit of religious Emancipation 
in a very ferious light, and am really inclined. 
to think that fome Perfons are runnino- mad 

P ' after 



;^3WPS*S"'5P*- - ""TjE 



( 26 ) 

after notional Rights and miflaken Liberty, 
or that others have a treacherous Defign, 
with the Maik of Religion, to fubvert our 
happy Conftitution in Church and State, the 
work of Ages and the admiration of the 
mofl enlightened Nations. 

O F T H E 

SLAVE TRADE. 



Y admiration of your Talents, and my 
refped: for your <^pntlitutional Principles 
and patriotic Exertions, require me to fpeak 
with modeily and precifion of your favorite 
Meafure/'to aboliQi the SLAVE TRADE.'' 
That Principle of adion. Sir, which is 
founded on a fenfe of Religion and Huma- 
nity, is indeed a noble Principle that exalts 

human 



( 27 ) 

human nature and would add luftre to the 
fplendorof aThrone. So far Mr. Wilber- 
FORCE muft have the refpefl of the enlight- 
ened part of mankind, and that Refpe(5l 
and Admiration are not confined to this 
Country. 

But^ I humbly conceive that Regulations, 
and not y/)^^^/<2//i^^ Innovations, are neceffary 
to the great purpofes of Humanity, of Re- 
ligion, and Government, and conducive to 
that fotmd Policy which Virtue and Wifdom 
require in this enlightened and liberal Na- 
tion. As the Liberty or rather the Licen- 
tioufnefs of the Prefs is a Speck in the Eye 
of the Confliitution which fnould be touched 
with a trembling hand ; fo other Evils which 
are crept into the Conilitution jQiould be 
adverted to with equal Circumfpedlion, and 

wife 



( ^8 ) 
wife Regulations fhould remedy Defeats 
which Innovations, like the unikilful Surgeon 
who dilates the wound, and like Empiricifm 
that endangers the Conllitution, would ren- 
der more alarming. . 

Thefe well -judged Regulations, which 
Virtue infpires and the wifdom of Parlia- 
ment animates, I have fhewn are neceflary 
to the conilituent Body, to operate as a R e- 
form of the delegated Power, or the People's 
fhare of the Legillature called the demo- 
cratic Houfe of Parliament ; and the fame 
Principle is manifeftly neceflary for a Regu- 
lation of the Slave Trade. 

I fhall ever think it a duty that I ow€ to 

my Country to refift Innovations in either 

Church or State 5 but I ihall as zealoufly 

contend 



( 29 ) 

contend for judicious Regulations confiftent 
with the Religion we profefs^ and the Hu- 
manity which charadterizes this generous 
Nation. Upon this noble Principle, and 
with this happy Tendency, Reftridions are 
uiidoubtedly neceiTary to the African Trade : 
But a total Abolition of the Slave Trade is, 
in my apprehenfion, a Solecifni in Politics* 

It is an impropriety of condu£l that de- 
parts haftily and raflily from our long efta- 
blilhed Policy, I do not fay that the Par- 
liament would, by fuch a Step, lign its own 

Death Warrant ; becaufe bad as the principle 
is, and fatal as the meafure would be, in 
my apprehenfiOR, it would not afFed: the 
cxiftence of Parliament ; but the Nation 
that could alTent to fuch a meafure, which 
tears up b^'- the roots the fecurity of char- 
tered 



( 30 ) 

tered Rights and private Property, would he 

Teh de Se, That national Security is the 
molL facred Pledge of the Government under 
which we live^ and the mofl valuable right 
of Society which cannot be violated without 
ihaking the Authority of the Legiilature and 
the credit of the State : and whenever fuch 
a calamity is unhappily produced by the ^ 
impolicy of ^ny meafure, then a want of 
confidence in the People, will weaken the 
energy of Government, and, as a natural 
confequence, rapidly dellroy the profperity 
and dignity of the Nation. The ftrong 
meafure with which the Colonies in the Weft 
Indies are threatened, is againft all national 
faith, and in violation of the deareft rights 
of that Dart of the Nation, and therefore fuch 
a itep v/ould railily, fromfalfe Principles and 

' mifiaken 



( 31 ) 

mijlaken EffeBs, plunge a Dagger in the 
Bowels of our Conftitutlon, and fatally tend, ' 
as in America, to feparate from this great 
trading Nation her Weft India PofTellions^ 
which, from their commercial and maritime 
effe6ls, are invaluable to Great Britain, and 
of infinite local Confequence, and therefore 
will not be tamely fubmitted lo, nor relin- 
quifhed without a ftruggle, as alarming, dif- 
graceful, and ruinous as that we have had 
the misfortune to experience in America. 

A free People are naturally tenacious of 
Rights on which their Liberty and Property 
are fecured, becaufc they confider them as 
things the moft dear and facred that oug;hc 
not to be violated under any pretence what- 
ever. In this opinion they are certainly 
rieht. Their Privlleo-es are dear, and the 

Authority 



■s 



( 3^ ) 
Authority by which they are fecured fhould 

be facred and immutable. When Govern- 
ment departs from the conftitutional Princi- 
ples of the Legiilature the People will, as 
they have done in our emancipated Colonies, 
depart from the Compact which unites them 

by reciprocal conditions, and fhake off their 
Dependance. An Event of the moft ferious 

and alarming Nature, which no miftaken 
notions of humanity fhould attempt, for 
real motives of humanity teach the contrary, 
fince the Africans wall certainly be happ'er 
in fuch a ftate of fubjedlion as is called 
Bondage, under the religious and civil Efta- 
blilhments of this enlightened and liberal 
Nation, than in a ftate of abfolute Emanci- 
pation, which it is prefumed will not fo ef- 
fedually promote the great purpofes of 

Humanity. 



( 33 ) 
Humanity, Religion, and Civilization in the 

Natives of Africa, as rational rabje6tion 
and the fuperiority of Controul — not fuch 
controul as the SLAVE feels from the 
TYRANT with the iron hand of oppreffion, 
but fuch as the Virtue of the Chriflian Re- 
ligion inrpires, and the Wifdom of a free 
State animates for the mutual advantages 
of Mailer and Bondfman, and for the great 
purpofes of private Happinefs and public 
Prolperity:, which are the true and great 
ends of Society, and of the laws of God 
and Man. 

An Event of fo ferious a nature, and big 
with fo m-uch mlfchief as '' the abolition of 
'-' theSlavs Trade," (which, like the exertions 
Bi Sampfon, brings down the noble Edifice 

E of 



( 34 ) 

of our Conftitution with the Rights and 

Property of the Subjedb) fliould, in my 
humble opinion^ be fufpended until the fol- 
lowing very important queflion is deter- 
mined in regard to private Property —Whe- 
ther the Legiflature of a free State has a 
-^oy^^tv to fiibvert the chartered Rights and 
abforb the property of our Colonies in the 
Weft Indies ? 

if it is anfwered haftily in the affirmative. 
and there are Men to be found who are bold 
enough to maintain the fbvereign power of 
the Legiilature to violate the rights and en- 
danger the Property of the Svibjed (upon 
the dreadful Principle of Mr. Fox's India 
Bill in 1783) I fhall then aik for the autho- 
rity on \vhich it is founded ? If it is found- 
ed on no principle of the Conftitution, it 

will 



C is ) 

will hardly be contended that the horrid and 
exploded principle of Mr. Fox that went to 
feize on the Rights and Property of the 
Eaft India Company, fhould be adopted as 
Authority to fliew the competency of Parlia- 
ment, to do as they pleafe with the com- 
merce and Projperty of the Weft India 
Iflands ? 

Should it be faid that the cafe of the 
Eaft India Company, as eftablifhed by Mr. 
Pitt's fubfequent Bill of 1784, which, like 
the hand of Providence, has produced the 
happiefl confequences, is a cafe in point, 
I deny it. 

Chartered rights are clearly of different 
defcriptions : Some, like thofe of the Com- 
pany, are conditm$aI^3.r\dihcvefQY& alienable;. 

others 



(36 ) 

others -are ahfolute^ like tliofe of the Weit- 
Indies, and confequent-ly u-nalienable : The 
one are clearly within the Jurifdidionof the 
Legillature : Hence the Board of Controul ! 
The other as clearly out of it : Hence the 
Injuflice and Impolicy of violating ihe Rights 
and fubverting the Property of the Planters 
by abolifhing the African Trade to our 
Colonies ! 

The Government of a free State^ it is 
prefumed^ can only legiilate for its Colonies 
fo far as is confident with the Principles of 
their local Eftablifhment. Horrid indeed 
would be that doctrine, and fatal the con- 
fequences, as we have feen in the cafe of 
oar emancipated Colonies, which gives an 
abfolute power in a free State to be exercifed. 
'capriciovjly in violation of the deareil Rights, 

and 



( 37 ) 

and of private Property feciired on them, 

which (hould be held facred, or where is 
the fecurity, of wliich we boaft fo much, of 
living under fuch a Government ? 

- Should what has happened to the Eaft 

India Company by the principle of Mr. Pitt's 
moll excellent Bill^ be produced as an in- 
ilance of the fovereign power of the Legii- 
lature over Chartered Rig-hts and private 
Property^ as I have Ihevvn the diiTerence, fo 
I deny the condufion : They are far from 
being parallal cafes : The Afiatic PoUcPiions 
being private Property of Perfons withm 
the jurifdi'flion of the Legiilature^ aii'd held 
conditionally, and for a limited time, as 
exclufive Privileges, and not as local Rights, 
they are undoubtedly controulable by the 
power that granted them, upon the exprefs 

or 



( 38 ) 

of implied condition^ that " whenever they 

, *^ operated againft the public welfare, they 

^^ fhouid be brought hack to the principles 
*' of national fecurity and utility." But, 
the Wefc India lilands are national Colonies 
efcabliHied on local and immutable princi- 
ples which CO nilitute unalienable Rights 
and facred Property clearly out of the Ju- 
rifdiction of the Britiili LegiHature, and 
forming a cafe as different to that of the 
Ea.fl: India Company as the Poles are 
oppoiite. 

Great Authorities in both Houfes of PaN 
liament, even that belt of Lawyers and 
Siatefmen, the Lord Prefident, have re-^ 
peatedly remarked that both the Bills of 
1783 and 1784, violated the Rights of the 
Company, v^hich I have had the courage to 

deny. 



( 39 ) 

den}^. That indeed of 1783 would have 

violated their Rights and abforbed their 
property with a witnefs ; but that of 1 7H4 
had a contrary tendency, by bringing iheir 
condud back to the principles of their 
Charter, for the fecurity of their property 
and the credit of the Nation. What was 
the cafe of olir American Colonies is now 
the cafe of our Weft India lilands. Le^ 
the Advocates for fuch a power in our^Le- 
giflature . remenaber wha^ rafh compulfion 
did in America^ although it was not fp ftrong 
. a meafurp as that of abQUjhing the Slave 
\'fvade^ which, like the Judgn^ent of God. 
. fay^, — your facrecj Rights and Property fliali 
po longer have EiJ^iftence ! What will pre- 
vent the ilime fenfe of injuries, and the iiarae 
alarniing confeqtiences in the Weft Indies - 

X nat 



C 40 ) 

That they have the fame fenfe of our im- 
policy and injuflice, and the fame fpirited 
and alarming determination, is evident from 
their early dread of the event, and refiftance 
to what tears tip their rights and the 
fectirity of their property by the roots. 
Then, may rxot what has happened in 
America, happen in our Weftlndia Colo- 
nies, and even in Jreland, to bring on an- 
other calamitous War by refiflance to the 
Mother Country, fhould flie be fo blind to 
her own Intereft a fecond time, as to abforb 
their property by invading local and im^. 
alienable Rlghts^agamfl: which it is prefumed 
fhe ought not to legiflate, as the C1^.^Q o-i 
America feems to prove by fatal expe- 
rience. 

Shallow 



(- 41 ) 

Shallow indeed muft be the Politlciart 
who forgets that our remainihgColonies may^^ 
if forced for the prefer'vation of their riglits 
and property, follow the example of our' 
emancipated Colonies, and what we now 
find to be the alarming but natural condudl 
of thofe of France, from an apprehenlion of 
the event that we are now rafhly endeavour- 
ing to bring about at the mojl unfavourable 
period ; a Conlideration which alone weighs 

more than volumes written for the Event, 
that is, for the abolition of the Slave Trade, 
and which conlideration has happily had its 
due weieht ag-ainfl Innovation in- the cafe of 
Parliamentary Reform. 

How dear has INNOVATION coft the 
Emperor Jofeph II ! Both his Dominions 
and his Life have fallen a facrifice. Had 



thing-s 



( 42 ) 

things remained in Jlatu quo^ that great and 
good Prince would not probably have loft 
either. The example is flrong, and fhould 
have its weight in the attempt to alter the 
eflablillied policy of this Nation in regard 
to her Weft India lilands, as it has with 
refpe^t to Reprefentation. Force the Weft- 
Indians to abandon their local rights and 
property, by inadequate and impolitic mea- 
fures, and you force them into the fame ftate 

of refiftance and emancipation as the Ame- 
rican Colonies. After our fatal Experience 
in the one cafe, can we want a line to be 
marked out for our condud: in the other ? 
Can an enlightened Nation be fo umvife as to 
fall into the fame error and the fame lofs a 
fecond time, while we feel the fad effects of 
our impolicy in the firft and at a time too 

that 



( 43 ) 
that we fee the dreadful effedls of a mere 

report of abolition in the French Weft India 
Colonies ? 

The Body politic is like the Body natural, 
and it fhould be the wifdom of both to guard 
againft Empiricifm. The Gentleman who 
loft his Life by Credulity with a fine Confti- 
tution, left a caution of infinite confequence 

to thefe rejllefs times, and I hope the lefTon 
will not be thrown away on this Country. 

Eu efiavQ hueno mas por eftar melhor efio aqid. 

*• Not fatisiied with being very well" (with a 
fine Confritution) '' lam in my Grave." 

Sir, I oppofe equally thofe who are for 
and thofe who are againft the Slave Trade in 
its prefent condition. Cannot a middle 
meafure be found confiftent with the Hu- 
manity 



( 44 ) 

nianity and Liberality of the Legiilature^ 

and the Rights and Property of theColonies? 
Certainly there is fuch a middle meaf^ire to 
be found as a line of condufl, and the founded 
policy for this free commerciai State ; a 
meafure which Ihall preferve the Dignity of 
the Legiilature and promote the Interefl bf 
the Nation, by legiHating fo far and no far* 
ther than fhall be confident with local and 
unalterable Rights and private property 
founded upon them, and therefore not to be 
violated by a refllefs and impolitic fpirit 
of Innovation* 

" Befides the great danger of Emancipation 
upon the principle of America and France, 
which teaches a fpirit of refiilancej as we fee 
in the French Weft India lilands and may 
apprehend froiP. the ftrong Language of our 

own 



( 45 ) 
Own; a total abolition of the Slave Trade 
Woilld deftroy a great fource of Commerce 
and Revenue, and throv/ it into the lap of 
France, or fome other rival Nation. But I 
apprehend the meafure is as impradicable 
as it is impolitic, becaufe recent examples 
and the fpirit of the times' teach a powerful 
and effectual refifliance to an invafion of 

Rights and violation of Property. An inef- 
ficient meafure or an unfuccefsful attempt, 

as in the cafe of America, would be degrad- 

ifig to the L.eglilature, and ruinous to the 

State, at a period that both iliould be induf- 

triouily avoided, -fince the one would affed 

the energy of our Government, which is now 

Very great at home and abroad, and the other 

affedl Public Credit which is certainly very 

high, both proving the profperity of the 

Nation 



( 46 ) 

Nation and the great merit of the prefent 
well chofen Adminiftration and excellent 
Cabinet, which is fo much admired at home 
and fo highly refpedted abroad ; a Truth that 
I could dwell upon with raptures becaufe 
that Virtus and Wifdom are the fource and 
fecurity of public Credit, of private Property 
and national Profperity and Dignity, and 
alfo the bed criterion for the judgment of 

the Nation at the General Eledlion, for %i)hat 
can be a fur er guide than experience of the zvifejl 
meafiires and the happiefl EffeJls, permanently 
eilablifhing our Profperity at home and in- 
fluence abroad, beyond the example of any 
former period ? 

Perhaps the middle mealure for our Weft 
India Colonies ftiould be to place the Afri- 
cans in a ilate of Bondage inftead of Slavery, 

the 



-( 47 ) 

the exiflence of which is inconfiilent with the 

principles of a free State and as repugnant to 
its Intereft and Dignity. Their total eman* 
cipation would let them loofe to cut the 
throats of our Colonifts^ and render our 
Colonies a public burthen inftead of a na- 
tional blefiing. 

You, Sir, not with the obflinacy of opinion 
which chara6terizes fome public men, but 
with a noble mind open to conviction, have 
given a fine proof of candour and the effeSls 
of experience in the cafe of the Diffenters ; 
but you were not perhaps aware that it is the 
ftrongeft argument againfl your favorite 
meafure in the caufe of Humanity and African 
Liberty. 

1 fuppofe you addreiTed the Chair in the 
following language, no matter whether the 

words 



a 



cc 



( 48 ) 

words are yours or mine, if they convey your 
meaning or that of our incomparable Minif-^ 
ter.— ^^ Mr. Speaker, Candor requires me 
" to own that, as a Friend to toleration, I am 
*^ an Advocate for religious and civil Li^ 
berty, and confequently for removing every 
unnecejjary reftridlion in Church and State : 
^^ Upon this liberal principle I acknowledge 
'^ that / zvas friendly to the wifh of the Dif- 
^^ fenters ; but experience of the unhappy 
^^ effedls of religious and civil Emancipa-^ 
^^ tion, from what has lately happened in. 
*^ other Countries, and feems to infedt all 
^^ Europe with a fpirit of refiftance dangerous 

^^ to every Government, has clearly con- 
^^ vinced me that what I then thought to be 
^^ right would now be extremely wrong ; 
^^ fince what appeared then to be harmlefs in 
^^ its' tendency is now manifeftly big with 

^' the 



( 49 ) 

^^ the moil dangerous Confequences to 

^' Church and State^ fo alarming indeed as 
*' to threaten the fpeedy fubverfion of both, 
^^ and the eftablifhment of anarchy and con- 
^^ fufion which is the greatell: national 
'' calamity." 

Does not every word of this found reafon- 
ing, from Fa<fhs and the Evidence of our 
Senfes, militate againft your favorite meafure 
for " the abolition of the Slave Trade? The 

Britilli Legiilature may enad Laws for their 
Subjeds, and forbid the continuance of the 
Slave Trade, but can the Parliament make a 
Law to prevent the Emancipation of their 
Weft India Iflands, after the recent Exam- 
ples in America and Europe, and the French 
Weft India Colonies, fhould the Britiih Le- 
giilature have the injuftice and impolicy^ by 

G s 



( 50 ) 
a departure from its iifual wildom, to force 
them, as the emancipated Colonies were 
forced, to preferve their undoubted Rights 
and Property, and the tijual means of fecur-^ 
ing the one and promoting the other ? Cer- 
tainly not. Thtw — Cui Bonoi 

Sir, I venture to oppofe the do6trine of 
both iides : A tenacious adherence to the old 
policy and a precipitate adoption of the new, 
appear equally the refult of error. I am an- 
Enemy to the Inhumanity, RapacFty and 
Impolicy of the prefent Plan, and therefore 
plead for thewifeft Regulations of a zvell-re- 
gtdatcdftate of Bondage y\\\Xi fliall be equally 
conducive to the happinefs ol the Bondfmau 
and the Intcreft and Profperity of the Weft 
India Planters^ Slavery is abhorrent to a 
free People;, but a {late of Bondage, confifl:- 

ent 



6 



( 51 ) 

crit with the humanity of our Religion and 

the mildnefs of our Confticution, is fuch a 
ftate as the Africans fhould defire, as it is 
evidentiy a flate of Servitude mild in regard 
to diem, and ufeful to the Planters j equally 
conducive to the great purpofes of civiliza- 
tion, of cultivation and population, and con- 
fequently to the great ends which the Laws 
of God and Man have in view. 

The authority of Legiilation feems to be 
abufed and the wifdoin of fociety perverted 
when, under the colour of Humanity or the 
t:loak of Religion, the Rights and Property 
of the Community are (liaken to their Foun- 
dation. The Power that is a [fumed (for there 
is no confhitutional Authority for it) to violate 
the Rights and to fabvert the Property of the 
Subjed, will plunge a Dagger in the Bozv els of 

the 



C 5^ ) 

the Conftitution, and declare V/ar againil that 

part of the Empire that is injured by fuch a 
wanton and unneceffary exe(t:vltion of Au-* 
tkority, as in the cafe of America. 

The Rights arid Property of a free People 
(liould be held facred, and never violated 
under any pretence whatever, for that con- 
flitutional fecurity is the compadt with the 
Government under which they live. Regu- 
lations are the refult of Virtue and Wifdom 
tending to improve and fecure xhem, but a 
total abolition is^ in my apprehenfion, an a(5l 
as impolitic to the State as it is unju-fl to the 
Subjedl. It is ruinous to private Property 
and to public Credit, to the Wealth of Indi- 
viduals and to the Revenue of the State, 
without producing the deiired tn^ of pro- 
moting the caufe of Humanity which, in this 

cafe 



• ( -^3 ) - 
cafe is^ an imaginary Blefling tending to 

amufe the weak, but cannot convince the 
well-informed who have too much ienfe to 
give up their underftanding, and too much 
fpirit to relinquifli the (blid advantages of pri- 
vate and public Property for miPcaken notions 
of Humanity. 

I call them miftaken notions of Humanity 
-becaufe I am not nngular in the opinion that 
they will increafe injlead of preventing the Evil 
complained of^ were it pojjiole to deprive the 
Vil^^ India Iflands of their clear ri2:hc to the 
African Trade, for the improvement and 
fecurity of their local and commercial Pro- 
perty ; or were it pojfible for this enlightened 
Nation (which boafhs of Juftice and Gcn.'Q' 
roiity fuperior to every other Country) to 
fall into the error of attempting fuch a ftep, 

after 



( 54 ) 

after the milch icf occafioned by a mcafurc 
not {q ilrong in America* 

If this is as clear to the minds of other Men 
. as it is to my own I fhall hope^ for the credit 
of theLegiflature^ and for the interefh of my 
Country, that a middle meaRire will be piir^ 
fued that fhall lay the African Trade under 
Reftrictions confifbent with our Humanity 
and Religion^ changing tlie condition of 
Slavery to a ftate of Bondage, which v/as the 
fervilc condition ot Jacob and other Jews 
prior to Chriilianity, with great benefit to 
their Mailers and without the lead difgrace 
to human nature. 

Such fervitude would be PROPERTY as 
:' effectually as Slavery ; and, under the wifeft 
Regulations, it would be m.ore conducive to 
Population^ and confequently more produc- 
tive 



( 55 ) 

tlve both to the Planter and the StatCj; fince 

the great blefling of moderation in Servitude, 

and the endearing profpedl of Liberty and 

future Profperity, would render them more 

induftrious and faithful, more valuable to 

their Employers and confequently ufeful 

members of Society, v/hich they can neither /?l£/^(,^ 

be in a ftate of difgracefui flavery. 

I have obferved, Sir^ that I am an Enemy 
to the prefent manner in which the African 
Trade is condu(fled, and that I am a Friend 
to the wdfe Reflations which Religion, Hu- 
manit)% and found Policy iuggeft ; but I am 
equally againfh the fo much talked of, but I 
think not io well underftood defign, ^^j:o 
^^ abolifli the Slave Trade," in v/hich tl^ere 
may be much Virtue in the fentiments 

of 



( 56 ) 
of the Author but, in my apprehenfion, not fo 
much Wifdomin the conduct of Parliament, 
at leaft in the prefent reftlefs period of 
Emancipation that pervades Europe, and ren-. 
ders a fpirit of Innovation and Adventure 
extremely hazardous. 

To conclude : It would be the doctrine of 
iimplicity to maintain that the Africans can- 
not be purchafed for the purpofes of our 
Colonies, and treated in a liberal Jlate of Bon- 
dage, with a fenfe of Humanity and Religion 
confident with the admired Principles of our 
happy Conftitution in Church and StatQ, 
without o-ivins; them all the ri2:hts of Nature, 
of Civilization and national Liberty •, where- 
by we iliould relinquiiii the Commerce and 
Property arifmg from fuch a fiatc of Bondage^ 
and tlu'ow t:hofe great national advantages 

into 



( 57 ) 

into the fcale of rival Nations^ which would 
be a double lofs to this great trading State^ 
whofe enormous Debt ftands too much in 
need of Revenue to make fo great a facrifice 
of Commerce and Wealth unneceflary, and 
therefore weakly if not wantonly. 

Great indeed v/ould be the impolicy of 
well-meaning Gentlemen who, in the circurn- 
(tances of this nation, can plead for fuch a 
ilicrifice in our Weft India Iflands after fo 
nnich has been facrificed in America, and 
while the people groan under the accumu- 
lating weight of Taxes, which fap the root of 
Induftry and the fource of Revenue 1 

Eat fmce human nature, in its moft polilh- 
ed ftate, is apt to take offence at an oppofition 
to a favorite defign I beg pardon for fpeak- 
ing fo freely with the candor which O-iould 

H ever 



( 5^ ) 
ever diftinguifti an Engliftiman, who being 

under no other influence than that of facred 
Truth and public Virtue, -fpeaks and writes 
from the convid:ion of his own mind, and not 
from the ftation or authority of any man. 

The profecution of the Defign to abolifh 
the Slave Trade, carries with it the following 

Conliderations, which are of the greateftCon- 

» 

fequence to this Nation ; 

I ft. Whether the Britifli Parliament can 

exercife in the Weft India Wands the right 
denied by the emancipated American Colonies 

to legiflate incompatible with the principle 
of their local Rio;hts and the fecurity of their 

Property arifmg from them ? 

Does not the Example of America decide 

this queftion, and fliew the fatal Effedts of the 

impolicy, v/hich, in that inftance, has coft 

Great Britain fo dear?- 



( ■ 59 ) 
2d. Whether the prefeat akirmnig fpiric 

of refiflance to fuch a meafure in our Weft 

India Colonies does not threaten the fame 

unhappy event ? 

3d. Whether the prefent unparalleled fpirit 
of refiftance to Government that pervades 
Europe, under pretence of defending their 
local Rights, does not encourage that refift- 
ance of remote pofleffions, and increafe the 
danger of lofing them ? 

4th. Whether the condud: of the French 
Colonies in the Weft Indies is cot ftill a 
ftronger reafon to dread refiftance like that 
in America and coniequences as alarming to 
this Country ? 

5th. Whether finally under fuch circum- 
fiances, fo favorable to refiftance and fo a- 
larming in their nature, the prejent -period is 
proper, for aboliniingthe Slave Trade? 



( 6o ) 

Will any man 'in his fenfes, or any man 
who is a Friend to this Country anfwer in 
the affirmative ? 

Every thing confidered I, Sir, as an Eng- 
lilhman and a iincere Friend to my Country, 
unirijfluenced by party motives and per- 
fonal confiderations, do thank God that the 
Slave Trade was not abolilhed ; and it fhall 
be my prayer that it may not be aboliihed— - 
at leaft, at a period fo alarming as the prefent, 
in which there is a certainty of its doing 
much mifchief, without the lead prolpecfb of 
advantage as a Compenfation for fo great a 
facrifice of local Rights^ of private Property^ 
of national Wealth, and public Revenue ! 

If any thing that I have had the honor to 
fuggeft fliould have the approbation of fo 
good and liberal a Judge, it will fill the 
meafurc of my ambition. 

Ihave the honor to be, SIR, 

Your mod obedient and 
Moil humble Servant, 

Greenwich . HONESTUS. 

May ijt, I'jfp. 



( 6i ) 



POSTSCRIPT. 

Since writing the above the alarm given 
of ^^ an approaching Rupture with Spain^" 
ftrengthens confiderably every thing that I 
haVe faid about the inlpolicy of ^^ ahoUJJnng 
*' the Slave Trade ;*' linCe, flioulcl it ever be 
proper to take fuch a mcafure^ which I 
ftrongly deny, the prefent period is certainly 
the nicfl: improper to think of convidfing our 
Weft India Poffeliions. Such an alarming 
Event iilould nozv be carefully avoided ^ 
fince the Colonifts, with American fpirit, 
might be provoked, by fuch an unjuft and 
unfeafonable ftep^ either to think of their 
Emancipation, or to facilitate the Defigns 
of the Spaniards^ 

Indeed 



( 62 ) 

Indeed now is the time, admittino; the 
certainty of a War with Spain, (to provoke 
which, whatever may be the pretence, and 
Vv'hatever the confequence, feems to be a 
Meafure of the founded Policy in that weal- 
thy Nation, to divert the Spaniards from the 
infedion of the French political Difeafe,) for 
the Planters to infill, in the language of our 
emancipated Colonies, on a clear and inlmu- 
table confirmation of their chartered Rio-hts 

o 

and local Privileges, and ouv forfaJcing totally 
the random delign of " abolifliing the African 
'' Trade,'* however -necefiary it may be 
hereafter, for the purpofes of Humanity, 
to put that Trade under the wifefl: Regula- 
tions, for a more humane Treatment of the 
Natives of Africa, confident with the prin- 
cioles of our Pvelig^ion and the mildnefs of our 

excellent 



( 63 ) 
excellent Conftitution, for the religious and 
civil Eftabliiliments of this free and enlight- 
ened State, fliew the utmofl abhorrence of 
SLAVERY, and that, when a proper feafon 
arrives. Inhumanity and Oppreffion of the 
African fliould be baniihed from our Weft 
India Dependencies and Conjlitutional Mild- 
nefs eftablimed, conuftent with our Religion, 
with their Prefervation, and with the local 
Rights and Property of theBritilh Planters. 
To purfue at prefent (under all the alarm- 
ing circumftances of the Times) the idea of 
^' abolifliing the Slave Trade," efpecial^y 
now we are alarmed by the Report of a 
Spaniih War, would in my apprehenlioii be 
a proof of the greateft political weaknefs 

and folly, and indeed fuch glaring impolicy 
and r^ilhnefs as, all circumftances confidered, 

would 



( ^4 ) 
would aniount to legiflattve PHRENZY 

and therefore cannot be expecled from the 

wifdom of Parliament under the bed chofen 

AdmlniaratLon and the ablefl CABINET of 

the prefent Reign, whofe Virtue in purfu- 

ing and wifdom in fecuring the Profperity 

and Dignity of the Nation and the Balance of 

Power are the Admiration of'^ll Europe, 



,-7 







