26th CONGRESS, 
1st Session. 



Doc. No. 185. 

[Reprint.] 



REPS. 

Executive. 



AFRICANS TAKEN IN THE AMISTAD. 



CONGRESSIONAL DOCUMENT, 



CONTAINING 



THE CORRESPONDENCE, &c., 



IN RELATION TO THB 



CAPTURED AFRICANS. 



NEW YORK: 
FOR SALE AT THE ANTI-SLAVERY DEPOSITORS, 

No. 131 NASSAU STREET, (Clinton Hall.) 

Price 12i cents. 
1840. 






res 'l^B^'St ^&>3 

TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES. 



The message from the President of the United States, communicating to the 
House of Representatives the action of the Government in relation to the captured 
Africans, was sent, in consequence of a resolution of the Hon. John Quincy Adams. 
How large an edition was printed we do not know, but a letter from a member of 
Congress says : — " I sent to a friend my own copy before I had read it, and on going 
to the Document-Room immediately afterwards, I found I could not supply its place, 
and I have had to borrow the reading of it." Whether the document was found to 
be so interesting that Members of Congress caught them up with unusual avidity to 
send to their constituents, or a large portion of them were destroyed as an incendiary 
production, we are unadvised. But so great has been the inquiry for the pamphlet 
in the free States, and so extraordinary is its character, that it has been deemed best 
to re-publish it for the use of Members of Congress and their constituents, omitting 
only some of the ship papers, and the originals of letters of which the translations 
were published in the original document, with explanatory and critical notes, &c. 
Otherwise, it is an exact copy of the document printed by order of the House of 
Representatives. 

The attention of the free people of this country is invited to the contents of this 
public document, and they will not fail to notice with astonishment the attempt of the 
executive to interfere with the regular administration of Justice. The Government 
of a free people should protect defenceless strangers thrown, by the providence of God, 
after a successful struggle for liberty, upon their shores, and not give them up to 
foreign claimants unless imperiously required to do it by treaty. But in this instance, 
it will appear that instead of interposing the national ^gis to shield the weak and 
oppressed, our government has lent all the aid and facilities at its command to have 
them placed in the hands of the Spaniards, with certain knowledge that many of 
them would be put to death ! These Africans are detained in jail, under process of 
the United States Courts, in a free State, after it has been decided by the District 
Judge, on sufficient proof, that they are recently from Africa — were never the lawful 
slaves of Ruiz and Montes — that the libels of these Spanish claimants should be dis- 
missed with costs — and when it is clear as noon-day that there is no law or treaty 
stipulation that requires the further detention of these Africans or their delivery to 
Spain or its subjects. And this, on the demand of the Spanish minister, who has 
been allowed to come into an American Court, and appeal, when the parties them- 
selves — his countrymen — have made no appeal from the righteous decision of the 
District Court ! 

And^this is not all. The Circuit Court have refused to admit the children — three 
little girls and a boy — to bail, after ample security was offered, and they, as well as 
the rest, are to be confined, it seems, nine months longer in jail to await the decision 
of the Supreme Court of the United States. We ask the attention of the law-Ioving, 
and liberty-loving people of the United States to these things. 



26th Congress, Doc. No. 185. Ho. or Reps. 

21 5/ Session. Executive. 



AFRICANS TAKEN IN THE AMISTAD. 



MESSAGE 



THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 

TRANSMITTING 

The information required by ike resolution of the House of Repre- 
sentatives of the 23c? ultimo, in relation to the Africans taken in the 
vessel called the Amistad, Sfc. 



■ April 15, 1840. 
Read, and laid upon the table. 



To the House of Representatives : 

I communicate to the House of Representatives a report from the Sec- 
retary of State, with documents containing the information called for by 



their resolution of the 23d instant. 
Washington, March 31, 1840. 



M. VAN BUREN. 



Department of State, 
Washington, March 31, 1 840. 

The Secretary of State, to whom has been referred a resolution of the 
House of Representatives of the 23d instant, requesting the President to 
communicate to that Honse, "if not incompatible with the public interest, 
copies of any demand made by the minister or other diplomatic representa- 
tive of Spain in this country, of the surrender to him. of the Africans taken 
in, or belonging to, the vessel called the Amistad ; and of all correspon- 
dence between this Government and the said minister or diplomatic repre- 
sentative, and with any other foreign Government or minister thereof, re- 
lating thereto ; also, copies of all instructions from the Department of State 
to the district attorney of the United States in the judicial district of Con- 
necticut, and all reports of the said district attorney to the said department 
relating to that subject ;" has the honor to lay before the President copies 
of all the correspondence and papers on the records and files of this de- 
partment relative thereto, except a recent correspondence with the Spanish 
minister in regard to testimony prepared to be furnished in the future in- 
vestigation of the cause of the Amistad before the tribunals of the United 
States. 

JOHN FOpYTH. 

To the President. ^ 



4 Doc. No. 185. 

Mr. Calderon to Mr. Forsyth. 

[teanslation.] 

New York, September 6, 1839. 

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of 
Her Catholic Majesty the Queen of Spain, has the honor of calling the 
attention of the honorable John Forsyth, Secretary of State of the United 
States, to a recent and very public occurrence of which, no doubt, Mr. 
Forsyth is already informed, and in consequence of which it is the impe- 
rious duty of the undersigned to claim an observance of the law of nations, 
and of the treaties existing between the United States and Spain. The 
occurrence alluded to is the capture of the Spanish schooner " Amistad." 

This vessel sailed from Havana on the 28th of June, bound to Guanaja, 
in the vicinity of Porto Principe, under the command of her owner, Don ^ 
Ramon Ferrer, laden with sundry merchandise, and with fifty-three negro 
slaves on board ; and, previous to her departure, she obtained her clear- 
ance {aJijo) from the custom-house, the necessary permit from the autho- 
rities for the transportation of the negroes, a passport, and all the other 
documents required by the laws of Spain for navigating a vessel and for 
proving ownership of property : a circumstance particularly important in 
the opinion of the undersigned. 

During the night of the 30th of said month, or about daybreak on the 
following day, the slaves rose upon the crew, and killed the captain, a slave 
of his, and two sailors — sparing only two persons, after ill-treating and 
wounding them, namely, Don Jose Ruiz and Don Pedro Monies ; of 
whom the former was owner of forty-nine of the slaves, and the latter 
of the other four. These they retained, that they might navigate the 
vessel and take her to the coast of Africa. Montes, availing himself of 
hisr knowledge of nautical affairs, and under favor of Divine Providence, 
succeeded in directing the vessel to these shores. He was spoken by va- 
rious vessels, from the captains of which the negroes bought provisions, 
but to whom, it seems, he was unable to make known his distress, being 
closely watched. At length, by good fortune, he reached Long Island 
Sound, where the " Amistad" was detained by the American brig-of-war 
" Washington," Captain Gedney, who, on learning the circumstances of 
the case, secured the negroes, and took them, with the vessel, to New 
London, in the State of Connecticut. 

The conduct of that commander and his subalterns towards the unfor- 
tunate Spaniards has been that which was to be expected from gentlemen, 
and from officers in the service of an enlightened nation friendly to Spain. 
That conduct will be appreciated as it deserves by my august sovereign, 
and by the Spanish Government, and will be reciprocated on similar oc- 
casions by the Spaniards — a people ever grateful for benefits received. 

The act of humanity thus performed would have been complete, had 
the vessel at the same time been set at liberty, and the negroes sent to be 
tried by the proper tribunal, and by the violated laws of the country of 
which they are subjects. The undersigned is willing to believe that such 
■would have been the case, had the General Government been able to in- 
terpose its authority in the first instance, as it has probably done during 
the short interval between the occurrence of this aflxiir and the period 
when the undersigned received an authentic statement of the facts. 

In the mean time, however, the schooner " Amistad" has been deliver- 



Doc. No. 185. 5 

ed up to the United States marshal in New Haven, who, in conjunction 
with the district judge, A. T. Judson, has instituted proceedings in the 
case, and adopted resolutions founded on the declarations first received ; 
and, according to information from Her Majesty's consul for Boston, who 
repaired to the scene of this occurrence, the officers of the " Washington," 
in the service of the United States, have presented to that incompetent tri- 
bunal a petition, which has been admitted, claiming salvage : a claim 
which, in view of the existing treaties, the undersigned conceives cannot 
be allowed in the sense in which it is made. 

Having related the principal facts, the undersigned will not trouble Mr. 
Forsyth with the details, as well because he presumes that he is fully ac- 
quainted with them, as because they would add little or no weight to the 
justice with which the undersigned, in discharge of his duty, is induced to 
ask — 

1st. That the vessel be immediately delivered up to her owner, togeth- 
er with every article found on board at the time of her capture by the 
Washington, without any payment being exacted on the score of salvage 
nor any charges made, other than those specified in the treaty of 1795, ar- 
tide 1st. 

2d. That it be declared that no tribunal in the United States has the 
right to institute proceedings against, or to impose penalties upon, the 
subjects of Spain, for crimes committed on board a Spanish vessel, and in 
the waters of the Spanish territory. 

3d. That the negroes be conveyed to Havana, or be placed at the dis- 
posal of the proper authorities in that part of Her Majesty's dominions, in 
order to their being tried by the Spanish laws which they have violated ; 
and that, in the mean time, they be kept in safe custody, in order to pre- 
vent their evasion. 

4th. That if, in consequence of the intervention of the authorities of 
Connecticut, there should beany delay in the desired deUvery of the vessel 
and the slaves, the owners both of the latter and of the former be indemni- 
fied for the injury that may accrue to them. 

In support of these claims, the undersigned invokes the law of nations, 
the stipulations of existing treaties, and those good feelings so necessary 
to the maintenance of the friendly relations that subsist between the two 
countries, and are so interesting to both. 

The undersigned would be apprehensive of ofTending Mr. Forsyth by 
supposing it in the least degree necessary to bring to his recollection his 
own well-known construction {disposiciones) of the law of nations in a 
case analogous to the one under consideration ; and he deems it equally 
unnecessary to enumerate the several cases in which, in obedience to that 
law, not only American citizens who have committed some crime on the 
high sea have been sent by other Governments to the United States in 
order to their being tried according to the laws of said States, but even 
foreigners who have offended against the laws on board of American 
vessels. 

In respect to the stipulations subsisting between this republic and Spain, 
the undersigned conceives that, in support of his pretensions, he cannot 
do better than to cite the 8th, 9th, and 10th articles of the treaty of 1795, 
which articles continued in full force by the declaration ad hoc contained 
in the 12th article of the treaty of 1819, namely : 

"Art. 8th, In case the subjects and inhabitants of either party with their 
shipping, whether public and of war, or private and of m.erchants, be forced 
through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies or any other urg- 



6 Doc. No. 185, 

ent necessity y for "seeking of shelter and harbor to retreat and enter into 
any of the rivers, bays, roads, or ports, belonging to the other party, they 
shall be received and treated with all humanity, and enjoy all favor, pro- 
tection and help ; and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide them- 
selves, at reasonable rates, with victuals and all things needful for the sub- 
sistence of their persons, or reparation of their ships, and prosecution of 
their voyage ; and they shall no way she hindered from returning out of the 
said ■ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they 
please, without any let or hindrance. 

"Art. 9. All ships and merchandise^ of what nature soever, which shall 
he rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers on the high seas, 
shall be brought into some port of either State, and shall be delivered to 
the custody of the officers of that port, in order to be taken care of, and 
restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof 
shall be made concerning the property thereof. 

"Art. 10. When any vessel of either party shall be wrecked, founder- 
ed, or otherwise damaged, on the coasts or within the dominion of the 
other, their respective subjects or citizens sail receive, as well for them- 
selves as for their vessels and effects, the same assistance which would be 
due to the inhabitants of the country where the damage happens, and shall 
pay the same charges and dues only as the said inhabitants would be sub- 
ject to pay in a lifce case ; and if the operations of repair should require 
that the whole or any part of the cargo be unladen, they shall pay no du- 
ties, charges, or fees, on the part which they shall relade and carry away." 

The crime in question is one of those which, if permitted to pass un- 
punished, would endanger the internal tranquillity and the safety of the 
island of Cuba, where the citizens of the United States not only carry on 
a considerable trade, but where they possess territorial properties which 
they cultivate with the labor of African slaves. These, on learning that 
the crime alluded to had been commited with impunity, (and their friends 
would not fail to acquaint them with the fact,) would lose none of the op- 
portunities for attempting revolt and evasion, which are afforded by the 
frequent and daily necessity of conveying negroes by sea from one quar- 
ter of the island to another ; and to guard against this it would be neces- 
sary to use additional precautions at a great expense. If, on the other 
hand, they shonld be condemned by the incompetent tribunal that has taken 
upon itself to try them as pirates and assassins, the infliction ofcapital pun- 
ishment in this case would not be attended with the salutary effects had in 
view by the law when it resorts to this painful and terrible alternative,, 
namely, to prevent the commission of similar offences. In such case, 
the indemnification I officially ask for the owners would be a very 
slender compensation ; for if the property remained unimpaired as it 
would remain, the satisfaction due to the public would not be accorded. 
The dread of a repetition of these acts might be expected to take posses- 
sion of the minds of the people residing in the islands of Cuba and Porto- 
Rico ; and, in lieu of the harmony and good feeling subsisting between 
them and the citizens of the United States, it would not be surprising, nor 
would it afford a cause for complaint, if sentiments were awakened of a 
different nature, and highly prejudicial to the interests of both parties. 
How can the man who promotes or advocates discord in families expect 
to be regarded with benevolence ? or how can he who acts in such a 
manner pretend to the title of friend ? 

The undersign does not apprehend that the fears herein expressed by 
him will be deemed exaggerated or unfounded. No one is ignorant of 



Doc. No. 185. 7 

the existence of a considerable number of persons who, prompted by a 
zeal which it does no belong to him to quality, are employing all the 
means which knowledge and wealth can afford for effecting, at any price, 
the emancipation of the slaves. Many of them, either because they are 
persuaded of the philanthropy of their designs, or assuming this virtue as 
a cloak, have no hesitation in repaying the hospitality they receive by the 
seduction of the slaves of their host, especially if they are skilful in any 
trade. Having induced them to abandon their masters, they ship them 
on board some vessel, where they retain them in a worse state of captivity 
than before, or send them to the United States, to be set at liberty : thus 
appropriating to themselves the property of another, and deliberately com- 
mitting a theft, while, perhaps, they believe that they are performing a 
meritorious act. In the mean time, the only resource of the ruined 
Spanish proprietor is to apply, at an enormous expense, to the tribunals of 
a foreign country, where in many places, public opinion throws in the 
way of the applicant for justice, in matters of this nature, insuperable ob- 
stacles. Of the many cases that might be referred to, in proof of the 
Justice of this remark, one is that of John Smith, mate of the brig Swift- 
sure, who concealed and brought away with him a negro who was cook 
in a hotel where he was staying ; upon which subject the undersigned 
wrote to the Secretary of State on the 19th of November, 1836, and now 
addresses him again in a separate communication. That the fears of the 
undersigned are not without foundation, is also evident from the excite- 
ment which this occurrence has produced in the pubhc mind, from the 
language used by some of the public papers in relating it, and from the 
exertions that many persons have commenced making in favor of the re- 
volted slaves of the " Amistad," for whose defence they have engaged 
some of the most able counsellors of Boston, New Haven, and New York. 

In th e islands above mentioned, the citizens of the United States have 
always met with a favorable reception and kind treatment. The Span- 
ish Government, for the protection of their property, would immediately 
accord the extradition of any slaves that might take refuse there from the 
southern States. Being itself exact in the observance of treaties, it claims 
the more justly the execution of them, and a reciprocal good correspond, 
ence, from a nation, the ally and neighbor of Spain, to whom so many 
proofs have been afforded of the high degree in which her friendship is 
esteemed. 

The undersigned requests Mr. Forsyth, the Secretary of State of the 
United States, to submit this note to the consideration of the President ; 
and takes this opportunity of renewing to him the assurances of his dis- 
tinguished consideration. 

A. CALDERON DE LA BARCA. 

Hon. J. Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Calderon. 

Department of State, 

Washington.) September 16, 1839 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge "the receipt, at this department* 
of your note of the 6th instant, regarding the case of the Spanish schooner 



8 Doc. No. 186. 

*' Amistad ** and cargo, together with the negroes found on board tha? 
vessel. Your letter was immediately forwarded to the President of the 
United States for his consideration, and no time will be needlessly lost, 
after his decision upon the demand it prefers shall have reached me, m 
communicating to you his views upon the subject. 

Accept, sir, the renewed assurance of my high consideration. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

Don Angel Calderon de la Barca, &c. 



<Mr. C alder on to Mr. Forsyth. 

[tkawslation.] 

J^ew York, September 17, 183&. 
Sir : I have just had the honor to receive your letter of the 16th instant^ 
acknowledging the receipt of my note of the 6th, relative to the Amistad, 
and I hasten to inform you of it; at the same time'repeating the assurances 
of my high consideration. 

A. CALDERON DE LA BARCA, 
To the Hon. J. Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Calderon. 

Department of State, 
Washington, September 23, 1830. 

Sir : In the examination of the case of the Spanish schooner " Amis- 
tad," the only evidence at present within reach of this department is 
that presented by the ship's papers, and the proceedings of the court of 
inquiry held by a district judge of Connecticut, on board the schooner, at 
the time the negroes in whose possession she was found were imprisoned 
for the alleged murder of the captain and mate of the vessel. If you have 
any other authentic documents relating to the question, or evidence of 
facts which can be useful to a proper understanding of it, I have the honor 
to request, by the direction of the President, that you will communicate 
them to me with as little delay as practicable, > 

I avail myself of the occasion to renew to you the assurance of my ^ 
high consideration. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

Don A. Calderon de la Barca, ^c, ^c, 6fc., 

New York. 



Mr Calderon to Mr. Forsyth. 

[translation.] 

New York, September 29, 1889. 
Sir : At the very hour in which I was about to embark in the steamboat 



Doc. No. 185. ^ 

Albany, for the purpose of placing my credentials in the hands of his ex- 
cellency the President, and of presenting to him my successor Don Pedro 
de Alcantara Argaiz, I received your letter of the 23d instant, in which 
you ask me whether I possess any other authentic documents relative to 
the case of the schooner Amistad, besides those found on board the said 
vessel, and now deposited in the court of Connecticut, which takes cog. 
nizance of that affair. 

In reply, I hasten to assure you, now that I have time for that purpose, 
although ttie official conduct of that case belongs to Senor Argaiz, that 
there are not in the possession of the legation of Her Majesty any docu- 
ments besides the declaration on oath of Montes and Ruiz ; inasmuch as 
the papers of the vessel, of the lawfulness of which there appears to be no 
reason for doubt, are in the court above mentioned ; and there is as yet 
not time enough for the news of the occurrence to have reached Havana. 

I entreat you, sir, to excuse my involuntary delay in replying to you, 
-and I have the honor of repeating to you the assurances of my high con- 
sideration and personal esteem. 

A. CALDERON DE LA BARCA. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth 
[translation.] 

New York, October 3, 1839. 

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of 
Her Catholic Majesty, has the honor of commencing his official corres- 
pondence with you, sir, by soliciting an act of justice, which not being in 
any way connected with the principal question as yet remaining unset- 
led by the cabinet, relative to the negroes found on board the schooner 
Amistad on her arrival on these coasts, he does not doubt will be received 
■by you in the manner which he has every reason to expect, from the 
circumstance that all preceding acts of the department under your charge 
have been dictated by the principles of rectitude and friendly reciprocity. 

Her Majesty's vice-consul at Boston, under date of the 24th of Sep- 
tember last, says, among; other things : 

'' As it appears from the papers of the schooner that she, as well as 
her cargo, are exclusively Spanish property, it seems strange that the 
court of New London has not yet ordered the delivery of one or both to 
the owners, if they are present, or to me, as their agent, born in that part 
of the Union, agreeably to the articles of the treaty now in force between 
the two countries. The delay in the delivery would not be of so much 
consequence to the proprietors, if the vessel did not require immediate re- 
pairs, in order to preserve her from complete destruction, and if it were 
not material that a large portion of the cargo should be sold on account 
of its bad condition." 

In submitting to you, sir, this solicitation, which has been addressed 
by the said vice-consul to the Spanish legation, the undersigned doubts 
not that you will see the propriety of it, and will obtain directions from 
the President, to the effect that the injuries which the persons represented 
by the vice-consul might otherwise sustain, may be lessened by means of 
a speedy determination of the question. 



10 Doc. No. 185. 

The undersigned avails himself of this occasion to offer you, sir,, t 
assurances of his most distinguished consideration. 

THE CAVALLERO PEDRO ALCANTARA ARGAIZ. 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Mr. Forsyth to the Chevalier de Argaiz. 

Department of State, 
Washington, October 24, 1839. 

The undersigned, Secretary of State of the United States^ has (he honor 
to acknowledge the receipt of the note addressed to him on the 22d 
instant, by the Chevalier de Argaiz, envoy extraordinary and minister 
plenipotentiary of Her Catholic Majesty, protesting against the arrest, and 
imprisonment at New York, of two Spanish subjects, Jose Ruiz, an,d 
Pedro Montes, and asking the interposition of the Executive in procuring 
their liberation, and indemnity for the losses and injury they may have 
sustained. 

It appears from the documents accompanying the note of the Chevalier 
de Argaiz, that the two Spanish subjects referred to were arrested on 
process issuing from the superior court of the city of New York, at the 
suit of, and upon affidavits made by, certain colored men, natives of 
Africa, for the purpose of securing their appearance before the proper 
tribunal, to answer for wrongs alleged to have been inflicted by them 
upon the persons of said Africans ; and, consequently, that the occurrence 
constitutes a simple case of resort by individuals against others to the ju- 
dicial courts of the country, which are equally open to all without dis- 
tinction, and to which it belongs exclusively to decide, as well upon the 
rights of the complainant to demand the interposition of their authority, 
as upon the liability of the defendant to give redress for the wrong al- 
leged to have been committed by him. This being the only light in 
which the subject can be viewed, and the constitution and laws having 
secured the judicial power against all interference on the part of the 
Executive authority, the President, to whom the Chevalier de Argaiz's 
note has been communicated, has instructed the undersigned to state, that 
the agency of this Government to obtain the release of Messrs. Ruiz and 
Montes cannot be afforded in the manner requested by him. The laws 
of the State of New York, of which the constitution and laws of the 
United States and their treaties with foreign Powers form a part, afford 
to Messrs. Ruiz and Montes all the necessary means to procure their re- 
lease from imprisonment, and to obtain any indemnity to which they may 
be justly entitled, and therefore would render unnecessary any agency 
on the part of this department for those purposes ; but, inasmuch as the 
imprisonment of those persons connects itself with another occurrence 
which has been brought under the President's consideration, in conse- 
quence of a correspondence between the Spanish legation and this de- 
partment, instructions (of which a copy is enclosed) have been given to 
the attorney of the United States for the district of New York to put 
himself in communication with those gentlemen, to offer them his advice 
(and his aid, if necessary) as to any measure which it may be proper for 
them to adopt to procure their release, and such indemnity as may be 
due to them under our laws, for their arrest and detention. 



Boc. No. 185. 11 

■ The documents enclosed in the Chevalier de Argaiz's note are, agree* 
ably to his request, herewith returned ; and the undersigned avails him- 
self of this occasion to renew to the Chevalier de Argaiz the assurance 
■of his high consideration. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

The Chevalier de Argaiz, cf-c, ^c, <^c. 



Tke Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth. 
[translation.] 

New York, J^ove7tiber 5, 1839. 

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of 
Her Catholic Majesty, has the honor of acknowledging the reception of 
the note from the Secretary of State of the General Government of the 
Union, dated the 24th of October, in which that gentleman, in reply to one 
of the 22d of the same month, shows the reasons which induced the Pre- 
sident to order information to be communicated to the undersigned that 
the Government could not act as the undersigned had requested, for the 
purpose of obtaining the liberty of the Spanish subjects Montes and Ruiz; 
l)ut that, as the imprisonment of those persons was evidently connected 
with another occurrence, which had been submitted to the consideration 
of the President, in consequence of a correspondence between the Span- 
ish legation and the Department of State, instructions (of which a copy 
was enclosed) had been given to the attorney of the United States for the 
district of New York, to the effect that he should offer to those persons 
his advice and assistance (if needed) with regard to the most proper 
means of obtaining their liberty. 

Although this answer did not entirely satisfy the desire expressed by 
the uadersigned in his note of October 22d, to which he was impelled by 
the sense of his duty and by the terms of existing treaties, yet he received 
it with pleasure and with thanks : with pleasure, because he saw that the 
Secretary of State did not refuse to admit the reasons which the under- 
signed had the honor to state in that note ; and with thanks, because he 
saw that the sentiments which had urged him to request with warmth a 
prompt reply, had been kindly interpreted. The undersigned, in conse- 
quence, went immediately to New York, where he visited, on the 29th 
ultimo, the attorney of the United States, with whom he had a long con- 
versation, which left him delighted with the affability and courtesy of JVf r. 
Butler, although he did not have the happiness to remain satisfied as to 
the principal matter, as that officer of justice declared that he could find 
no other means of obtaining the liberty of Ruiz (Montes being already 
free) than by waiting the determination of the court or courts, against the 
jurisdiction of v/hich the undersigned had already especially protested. 

Considering that the Spanish Government has, just within these few 
days past, given lo that of the United States a proof of the strictness with 
which it observes treaties, and of the respect which it bears to the juris- 
diction of the courts of this country, by sending from Havana the original 
documents of the prosecution against Mr. Abraham Wendell, the captain 
of the brig Franklin, for maltreatment of his mate, William Bel! ; that 
the undersigned is well persuaded that what he has said to the Secretary 
of Stale, in the two conferences preceding his note of October 32d, and 



22 Doc. No. 185. 

the indications contained therein, would have been sufficient to convince 
one so enlightened and discriminating of the justice of his claim ; that this 
persuasion has gained strength, from the circumstance that the Secretary 
of State has made no attempt in his answer to oppose those arguments, 
but has confined himself to endeavoring to explain the course of civil 
causes in the courts of this country, in order to show that the Government 
of the United States could not interfere in the manner in which Her 
Catholic Majesty's representative requested ; it becomes necessary tO' 
advance further arguments, at the risk of being importunate. 

It is allowed by the whole world that a court cannot take cognizance 
of crimes or deU7iquencies commiUed in other countries, or other juris- 
dictions, and under other laws, the application of which is not intrusted 
to it ; as, also, that petitions or accusations of slaves against their masters 
cannot be admitted in a court. If, however, all this were not well known 
and established, does not the seventh article of the treaty of 1795 apply ta 
this case ? What says that article ? It says that, in case an American 
citizen should contract debts or commit offences in the dominions of His 
Catholic Majesty, or a Spaniard in the United States, the proceedings for 
his arrest and all others against him shall be conducted in the manner 
already established, &c. dec. All of which, as the Spanish minister said 
in his note of the 22d, and also the circumstances above mentioned rela- 
tive to the prosecution of Mr. Wendell, prove that neither of the two- 
contracting parties could or wished to renounce their respective jurisdic- 
tion. And as the incompetence of the courts of the United States, with 
regard to this matter, is so clearly demonstrated, is there no power in the 
Federal Government to declare it so, and to interpose its authority to put 
down the irregularity of these proceedings, which the court is not compe- 
tent to perform ? It seems impossible that there should be no such power j 
but, unfortunately, there is none. 

Her Catholic Majesty's envoy extraordinary and minister plenipoten- 
tiary, nevertheless, seeing that his previous protest did not produce the 
result which he expected, renews it now, declaring this Governrnent 
responsible for the consequences which may grow out of this affair ; and 
he asks the Secretary of State whether or not he possesses sufficient au- 
thority and force to carry into fulfilment the treaty of 1795 ? If he ha& 
not, then there can be no treaty binding on the other party. 

The undersigned flatters himself that he will obtain a speedy reply, as 
required by the nature of the case and the rights of a Spanish subject^ 
who is suffering an unjust and unlawful imprisonment ; and he, at the 
same time, repeats to the Secretary of State the assurances of his most 
high consideration. 

THE CHEVALIER DE ARGAIZ. 
To the Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State, 



Acting Secretary of State to the Chevalier de Jlrgaiz. 

Department of State, 

Washington, Jfovember 22, 1839. 

Upon the receipt of the note addressed, on the 5th instant, this de- 
partment, by the Chevalier de Argaiz, envoy extraordinary and minister 
plenipotentiary of Spain, in relation to the arrest of Mr. Ruis, in a civil 



Doc. No. 185. 13 

suit against him before a court of law in New York, the undersigned, 
acting Secretary of State, transmitted, by order of the President, to the 
attorney of llie 'United States for the district of New York, directions 
again to inquire into tlie circumstances of the case, and to report his opin- 
ion as to the authority of the United States Government to interfere in 
behalf of Mr. Ruiz, for the purpose of procuring his release from impri- 
sonment, as requested by the Chevalier de Argaiz. 

The undersigned, having received the report of the district attorney, 
hastens to communicate the enclosed copy of it to the Chevalier de Ar- 
gaiz ; and avails himself of this opportunity to offer him renewed assur- 
ances of his distinguished consideration. 

A. VAIL, 
Acting Secretary of State. 

The Chevalier de Akgaiz, ^c. <SfC. dfc. 



The Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth, 
[translation.] 

Washington, November 26, 1839. 

The new delay which the court in Connecticut has just granted, fixing 
the 7th of January next for the trial of the case of the schooner Armistad, 
places the undersigned envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary 
of Her Catholic Majesty under the necessity of repeating to the Secretary 
of State of the General Government of the United States his former 
complaints. 

To the first complaint, made by his predecessor, on the 6th of Septem- 
ber last, nothing more than an acknowledgment of its receipt was thought 
necessary, which was made on the 16th of the same month. In the 
answers which the Secretary was pleased to give to the notes of the 
undersigned, of the 22d of October and the 5th of November last, that 
gentleman did not think proper to combat the arguments advanced. 
Those which the undersigned now proposes to present will be no less 
powerful, and he hopes will be such that the Secretary will not be able to 
deny their justice. 

The undersigned has the honor to ask in what law, act, or statute, does 
the said court base its right to take cognizance of the present case'? 

There can be no doubt as to the reply : On no law, act, or statute. 
For, if any such existed, it is, or should be, anterior or posterior to the 
treaty of 1795. If anterior, it clearly became annulled, because a treaty 
is one of the superior laws of the State, or the treaty should never have 
been signed, or ratified, or sanctioned by the legislative bodies. If pos- 
terior to the treaty, the legislative bodies, in drawing it up, discussing it, 
and voting on it, must have seen that it was at variance with a subsisting 
treaty, which was already a law of the Union. All which serves to show 
that, in the existing state of the laws, this affair cannot and should not be 
decided by the common law, but by the international law. 

The predecessor of the undersigned, resting no doubt upon this convic- 
tion, demanded, on the 6th of Septem.be r last, the restitution of the 
schooner, with all her cargo; and, if the General Government of the 
Union had decided this matter of itself, {gubernativamente,) the owners 
would have soon availed themselves of the right allowed them by the 



14 Doc. No. 185. 

treaty, according to which the vessel and her goods, of whatever nature 
they may be, should be restored ; for they had been, as the 8th article says, 
forced in order to escape from enemies, (who kept them prisoners on 
board of the vessel herself,) and there was, therefore, an urgent necessity 
to seek refuge and shelter on the coasts of the United States, where they 
should have been, agreeably to the stipulations of the same article, " re- 
ceived and treated with all humanity, and enjoy all favor, protection, and 
help ;" and where they were in no ways to be hindered from returning out 
of the said ports or roads, but to be allowed to remove and depart when 
and whither they pleased, without any let or hindrance. 

Very different, however, have been the results ; for, in the first place 
the treaty of 1795 has not been executed, as the legation of Her Catholic 
Majesty has solicited ; and the public vengeance has not been satisfied, for 
be it recollected that the legation of Spain does not demand the delivery 
of slaves, but of assassins. Secondly, great injury has been done to the 
owners ; not the least being the imprisonment which Don Jose Ruiz is 
now undergoing, notwithstanding the complaints made on that subject, 
which, if not entirely disregarded, have at least not produced the favorable 
results which migtit have been expected ; and the dignity of the Spanish 
nation has thus been offended. With respect to which injuries, the under- 
signed will, on a proper occasion, use his right ; although no indemnifica- 
tions can fully recompense for the evils, physical and moral, which the 
persecutions and vexations occasioned by fanaticism may cause to an 
honorable man. 

*. Thus it appears that a court of one of the States of the confederacy has 
assumed the direction of an affair over which it has no jurisdiction ; that 
there can be no law, either anterior or posterior to the treaty, upon which 
a legal sentence can be based ; that this court, by the repeated delays 
which it orders, contributes to delay the satisfaction demanded by public 
justice ; and that, in consequence, the affair should only be determined 
by reference to international right, and, therefore, by the exercise of the 
power of the Government, {guhenativamente ;) that, for its determination, 
the treaty exists to which Spain appeals ; that, from the delay on this 
determination, have proceeded injuries requiring indemnification, to de- 
mand which the undersigned reserves the exercise of his right for a future 
occasion. The undersigned may, without indiscretion, declare that this 
must be the opinion of the cabinet, which, possessing already the necessary 
and even indispensable powers, may immediately act {guhenativamente) 
in this matter, in virtue of the actual state of the law, and without awaiting 
the decision of any court. Not to do so, may give rise to very compli- 
cated explanations with regard to reciprocity in the execution and fulfil- 
ment of treaties. 

The undersigned flatters himself with the hope that his excellency the 
President will take into his high consideration this communication, to 
which the undersigned hopes for a speedy answer, as a new proof of the 
scrupulousness and respect with which this nation fulfils the treaties exist- 
ing with other nations. If, contrary to this hope, the decision should not 
be such as the undersigned asks, he can only declare the General Govern- 
ment of the Union responsible for all and every consequence which the 
delay may produce. The undersigned avails himself of this opportunity 
to repeat to the Secretary of State the assurances, &c. 

THE CHEVALIER DE ARGAIZ. 

Hon. John Foesyth, 

Secretary of State of the United States. 



Doc. No. 185. 15 

The Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth. 
[translation.] 

Washington, J^ovember 29, 1839. 

The undersigned received on the 22d instant, with the note from Mr. 
Vail, the acting Secretary of State, the copy of the opinion which had 
been asked from the attorney of the United States at New York, by order 
of the President. 

Although the envoy extraordinary of Her Catholic Majesty does not 
intend to enter, at present, into a discussion (pohmica) with regard to this 
affair, he cannot still do less than declare that he views the question of the 
imprisonment of Don Jose Ruiz in a very different light ; and to demon- 
strate, at the same time, so far as reasoning will go, that the Government 
of the United States is bound to extend to the said Ruiz more favor, pro- 
tection, and assistance, than it has as yet granted him, which has been no 
more than directing the abovementioned attorney to offer him his advice, 
(and assistance if there should be occasion ;) that is to say, the Govern- 
ment has given him an attorney gratis, as all courts allow to those accused 
persons who, from want of means, cannot defend themselves. Taking 
this affair from its commencement, the situation of Ruiz on his arrival in 
the United States is to be considered. Having embarked in the schooner 
Amistad, at the port of Havana, for the purpose of carrying some negroes 
belonging to him to Guanaja, and being provided with the documents re- 
quired by the law and the ordinances, he set sail on the 28th of June last ; 
on the night of the 29th-30thof the same month, the negroes rebel ; they 
assassinate the captain, and his cook, a negro man ; two white sailors 
alone, of the crew, escape in the boat ; Monies is wounded and ill-treated, 
though his life, as well as that of Ruiz, is spared, from the mere necessity 
on the part of the negroes to save themselves ; and they are obliged to 
manage the vessel, which, instead of steering to the eastward, as the mu- 
tineers wished, they brought to the coasts of the United States ; and a yes- 
sel belonging to the Union carries them into New London. 

On their arrival in the United States, Monies and Ruiz claimed the 
protection allowed them by the international law ; and the envoy extraor- 
dinary and minister plenipotentiary of Her Catholic Majesty, Seiior Cal- 
deron de la Barca, made a request to that effect to the Government of 
the Union, on the 6th of September last, based upon the provisions of the 
treaty of 1795. 

This treaty, in its 8th article, says : " In case the subjects and inhabit- 
ants of either party, with their shipping, whether public and of war, or 
private and of merchants, be forced, through stress of weather, pursuit of 
pirates or enemies, or any other urgent necessity for seeking of shelter and 
harbor, to retreat and enter into any of the rivers, bays, roads, or ports, 
belonging to the other party, they shall be received and treated with all 
humanity, and enjoy all favor, protection, and help ; and they shall be per- 
mitted to refresh, and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with vict. 
uals and all things needful for the subsistence of their persons, or repara- 
tion of their ships, and prosecution of their voyage ; and they shall no 
ways be hindered from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may 
remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hind- 
rance." Now, have Montes and Ruiz received in the United States " all 
favor, protection and help ?" Have they not bee^i detained and hindered 
from returning out of the ports or roads of the United States ? Have they 



f- 



16 Doc. No. 185. 

heen allotved to remove and depart when and how they pleased, without any 
let or hindrance ? The prison of New York can answer all these ques- 
tions. 

It is in vain to say that the imprisonment of Montes and Ruiz has no 
connection with treaties, as it is in consequence of a civil prosecution. Who 
has set on foot this prosecution ? The whole nation knows the prosecu- 
tion has been set on foot legally by three men, who by their declaration 
that they had been sold in Africa, prove the state of slavery in which they 
were in that country. Now, if they were slaves in their own country, how 
do they come to be here in the enjoyment of civil rights 1 Moreover, a 
criminal accusation is now hanging over them ; and in every civilized 
country the said rights would be always suspended with respect to persons 
lying under such accusations. 

But even supposing these negroes to be in the United States competent 
to begin civil prosecutions ; let the treaty of 1795 be opened, and in its 7th 
article it will be seen that, " in all cases of seizure, detention, or arrest for 
debts contracted, or offences committed, by any citizen or subject of the 
one party, within the jurisdiction of the other, the same shall be made and 
prosecuted by order and authority of law only, and according to the regu- 
lar course of proceeding usual in such cases." If the delinquencies against 
which the negroes complain, and on account of which they are now prose- 
cuting, have been really committed, they were committed before the ne- 
groes became masters of the schooner Amistad — that is to says in the isl- 
and of Cuba, or in its waters ; and, therefore, according to the letter and 
the spirit of this stipulation, they should come under the jurisdiction of that 
island, and by no means under that of the courts of these States j and on 
this point it is that the undersigned differs entirely in opinion from the at- 
torney of the United States for the district of New York. 

The case of the imprisonment and persecutions to which Sefior Ruiz has 
been subjected has now been presented in a clear light. Sefior Ruiz should, 
agreeably to the 8th article of the treaty, have found " favor, protection, 
and help" in the United States ; and he found a prison, in which he has 
been suffering since the 17th of October last. He was not to be detained 
or hindered in any way from returning out of these ports or roads, but, on the 
contrary, had the right to re^nove and depart whenever he pleased^ without 
let or hiJidrance. Now, is it no hindrance to set on foot a civil prosecu- 
tion against him, when it is well known that the plaintiffs have no part in 
it ? Is not an imprisonment, or the bail that is required, a hindrance ? 

And does the General Government of the Union, while knowing that 
" the imprisonment of those persons connects itself with another occur- 
rence which has been brought under the President's consideration, in con- 
sequence of a correspondence between the Spanish legation and the De. 
partment of State," conceive that it has done its duty by giving instructions 
to the attorney of the United States for the district of New York to put 
himself in communication with Ruiz, and to offer him his advice (and his 
aid, if necessary) as to any measure which it may be proper for him to 
adopt in order to procure his release, which, as I have before observed, 
amounts to nothing more than giving him an attorney gratis? 

The representative of Her Catholic Majesty is so far from being satisfied 
with this resolution, that he cannot avoid declaring that, according to his 
imperfect knowledge and understanding, the General Government is bound, 
in compliance with the stipulations of the treaty, to defend the said Ruiz 
officially, by giving for him the bail required, and setting him at liberty, so 
as to place him in the position assured to him by the treaty of 1795. This 



Doc. No. 18d 17 

the undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of Her 
Catholic Majesty now demands in virtue of the letter and sense of the 
stipulations of that treaty. 

The undersigned renews to Mr. Forsyth, Secretary of State of the Gen- 
eral Government of the Union, the assurances of his high consideration. 

THE CHEVALIER DE ARGAIZ. 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



Mr. Forsyth to the Chevalier de Argaiz. 

Department of State, 
Washington, December 12, 1839. 

The undersigned, Secretary of State of the United States, has the honor 
to acknowledge the receipt of two notes addressed to him on the 1st and 
26th of last month by the Chevalier de Argaiz, envoy extraordinary and 
minister plenipotentiary of Spain ; the one complaining of delay in the de- 
cision of the Government of the United States on his application for the 
surrender of the schooner Amistad, her cargo, and the negroes found on 
board ; and the other, claiming the agency of the Executive in the defence 
of Don Jose Ruiz, in a civil suit against him, now pending before a court 
of law in the city of New York, and the security of the United States in a 
bail-bond for his release from arrest in the suit referred to. 

In the note which the undersigned addressed to Mr. Calderon de la 
Barca on the 16th September last, he stated that the application for the 
delivery of the " Amistad," and the property found on board, had beea 
submitted for the consideration of the President, and that his decision 
would as soon as received, be communicated to the Spanish legation. In 
another note of the 23d of the same month, calling for evidence deemed 
useful in the exa^mination of the questions arising from the case of the 
'' Amistad," the minister of Spain might have found a proof that his ap- 
plication was receiving all the notice and respect which was due to the 
source from which it emanated ; and it was hoped that, in the various 
conversations which have since taken place with the Chevalier de Argaiz 
at this department, on the same subject, he would have discovered addi- 
tional evidence of the desire of the United States Government to do justice 
to the demand and representations addressed to it in the name of that of 
Spain, as fully and as promptly as the peculiar character of the claim ad- 
mitted. From the repeated communications of the Chevalier de Argaiz, 
pressing for the disposal of the question 5 from his reiterated offer of sug- 
gestions as to the course by which he deems it incumbent upon this Gov- 
ernment to arrive at a final decision ; and from the arguments in support 
of those suggestions, which the undersigned does not perceive the utility 
of combating nt the present stage of the transaction ; the Government of 
the United States cannot but perceive with regret that the Chevalier de 
Argaiz has not formed an accurate conceplion of the true character of the 
question, nor of the rules by v.'hich, under the constitutional institutions of 
the country, the examination of it must be conducted ; nor a correct ap- 
preciation of the friendly disposition towards Her Catholic Majesty's Gov« 
ernment, with which that examination was so promptly entered upon. In 
connection with one of the points in the Chevalier de Argaiz's last note, 
3 



18 ' Doc. No. 185. 

the undersigned will assure him that, whatever be, in the end, the disposal 
of the question, it will be in consequence of a decision emanating from 
no oiher source than the Guveniment of the United States; and that, if 
the agency of the judicial authority shall have been employed in conduct- 
ing the investigation of the case, it is because the judiciary is, by the or- 
ganic law of the land, a portion, though an independent one, of that Gov- 
ernment. 

As to the delay which already has attended, and still may attend, a final 
decision, and which the Chevalier de Argaiz considers as a legitimate 
subject of complaint, it arises from causes which the undersigned believes 
that it would serve no useful purpose to discuss at this time, further than 
to say that they are beyond the control of this department, and that it is 
not apprehended that they will affect the course which the Government 
of the United States may think it fit ultimately to adopt. 

The undersigned indulges the hope that, upon a review of the circum- 
stances of the case, and of the questions it involves, the Chevalier de Ar- 
gaiz will agree with him in thinking that the delay which has already 
occurred is not more than commensurate with the importance of those 
questions; that such delay is not uncommon in the proceedings and de- 
liberations of Governments desirous of taking equal justice as the guide 
of their actions; and that the caution which it has been found necessary 
to observe in the instance under consideration, is yet far from having oc- 
casioned such procrastination as it has been the lot of the United States 
frequently to encounter in their intercourse with the Government of 
Spain. 

With regard to the imprisonment of Don Jose Ruiz, it is again the mis- 
fortune of this Government to have been entirely misapprehended by the 
Chevalier de Argaiz, in the agency it has had in this, an entirely private 
concern of a Spanish subject. It was no more the intention of this depart- 
ment, in what has already been done, to draw the Chevalier de Argaiz into 
a polemical discussion with the attorney of the United States for the district 
of New York, than to supply Don Jose Ruiz, gratis, with counsel in the 
suit in which he had been made a party. The offer made to that person 
of the advice and assistance of the district attorney, was a favor — an en=^ 
tirely gratuitous one — since it was not the province of the United States to 
interfere in a private litigation between subjects of a foreign state, for which 
Mr. Ruiz is indebted to the desire of this Government to treat with due 
respect the application made in his behalf in the name of Her Catholic 
Majesty, and not to any right he ever had to be protected against alleged 
demands of individuals against him or his property. 

And in communicating to the Chevalier de Argaiz the legal opinion of 
the district attorney, this department had no other object or expectation 
than to produce in his mind, by arguments founded upon the laws both of 
this country and of Spain, a conviction that this Government can no more 
grant the request set up in behalf of Don Jose Ruiz, than it could under 
take to decide upon the legality of the claim preferred against him by th 
plaintiffs in the suit which occasioned his imprisonment. 

In support of his application for Executive intervention in the liberation 
of Don Jose Ruiz, the Chevalier de Argaiz quotes the 7th article of the 
treaty of 1795 between the United Slates and Spain; and then puts the 
following questions, which the undersigned will answer by stating the facts 
as they have come to his knowledge: 

Have Messrs. Monies and Ruiz received in the United States " all fa- 
wr, protection, and help 1" 



Doc. No. 185. 19 

Have they been detained, or not ? 

Have they, or not, in any manner been prevented from leaving the ports 
or roads of the United States? 

Have they been allowed to remove or depart when and as they pleased, 
without any let or hindrance 1 

Messrs. Ruiz and Monies were first found near the coast of the United 
Siates, deprived of their property and of iheir freedom, suffering from law- 
less violence in their persons, and in imminent and constant danger of be. 
ing deprived of their lives also. They were found in this distressing and 
perilous situation by officers of the United Slates, who, moved towards 
them by sympathetic feeling, which subsequently became, as it were, na- 
tional, immediately rescued them from personal danger, restored them to 
freedom, secured their oppressors that they might abide the consequences 
of the acts of violence perpetrated upon them, and placed under the safe- 
guard of the laws all the property which they claimed as their own, to re° 
main in safety until the competent authority could examine their title to it, 
and pronounce upon the question of ownership, agreeably to the provisions 
of the 9th article of the treaty of 1795. 

From the moment of their liberation, they were left perfectly free to 
remain in the United Stales, to visit any part of the country, or to depart 
from it, without let or hindrance, as their business or inclination might 
suggest. Their property was under the protection of this Government, 
and its authority acknowledged by the legation of Her Catholic Majesty ; 
and if they chose to continue in the State into which they were first con- 
ducted, or to travel -into other States, they remained under the ordinary 
protection of the laws of the United States, the beneMls of which have not 
been, and will not be, denied to them. And in proof of this, one of them, 
Don Pedro Monies, is no longer within American jurisdiction. 

All the stipulations in the 7th article of the treaty have been fulfilled 
by the agents of the United States, in all that regards the personal rigiits 
of those two Spanish subjects, with a promptitude, fidelity, and kindness, 
in which they were supported and approved by public sentiment, so far as 
it lay in their power to enforce them ; and no cause of dissatisfaction 
would have arisen in that respect, had they not deferred availing them- 
selves of their freedom to leave the country until arrested, at the suit of 
individuals, alleging against them private claims, which constitutes, in the 
eye of the law of the land, liabilities; the extent and validity of which can 
only be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. To such a 
court, and for such a purpose, the plaintiffs have resorted ; and if the pro- 
ceedings of that court have been according to law, end the same as if the 
parties defending were citizens of the United States, nothing is perceived 
in those proceedings which can be justly made a subject of complaint 
against the Government of the United States, under existing treaties. 
Among the powers within the competency of the court before which the 
•case is pending, is that of releasing the defendant from actual imprison- 
ment, upon his giving the usual security, not for the payment of the dam- 
ages claimed by the plaintiffs, but merely for his appearance to abide the 
decision of the court. If Mr. Ruiz, relying upon other protection, has 
declined availing himself of the only one which the law provides and 
places within his own reach, the hardship he sufiors, and of which the 
Chevalier de Argaiz complains in his behalf, is in some degree voluntary, 
and can only be made to cease when he shall himself apjily the proper 
remedy, or when the tribunal shall, by due course of legal proceedings, 
liave arrived at a judgment, which the undersigned has no doubt will ui<^ 



20 Doc. No. 185. 

timately answer all the demands of justice. If the proceedings against 
Mr. Ruiz shall be found to have been unwarranted by the existing law, 
all the meddling persons who can be shown to have been parties to his 
imprisonment are answerable to him, by the laws of the country ; and 
proper remuneration will be, no doubt, obtained, if he chooses to resort 
to the tribunals to enforce his claims upon them. 

The undersigned cannot conclude this communication without calling 
the attention of the Chevalier de Argaiz to the fact, that, with the single 
exception of the vexatious detention to which Messrs. Montes and Ruiz 
have been subjected in consequence of the civil suit instituted against 
them, all the proceedings in the matter^ on the part of both the executive 
and judicial branches of the Government, have had their foundation in 
the assumption that those persons alone were the parties aggrieved ; and 
that their claim to the surrender of the property was founded in fact and 
in justice. This circumstance alone, independently of those above stated, 
should, in the opinion of the undersigned, have been sufficient to convince 
the Chevalier de Argaiz that the condition of Messrs. Ruiz and Montes 
had, like the interposition of Her Catholic Majesty's Government in their 
behalf, found every proper degree of favor and consideration at the hands 
of the United States Government. 

The undersigned avails himself of the occasion to renew to the Che- 
valier de Argaiz assurances of his distinguished consideration. 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

The Chevalier de Akgaiz, &c. 



The Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth. 
[translation.] 

Washington, December 25, 1839. 

The undersigned has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the note 
addressed to him under date of the 12th instant, by the Secretary of 
State of the Government of the Union,^ to which it would be superfluous 
{ocioso) to reply, inasmuch as the Secretary of State does not seem to 
have considered it requisite, in the present situation of the affair, to com- 
bat the arguments adduced by the undersigned. The delicacy of the 
undersigned does not, however, allow him to pass over (desoir) certain 
insinuations, (remarks) contained in the said note ; and it will, perhaps^ 
be difficult for him to avoid adducing some new argument in support of 
his demands. 

Mr. Forsyth's answer to the demands of the undersigned may be con- 
sidered as referring, first, to the business of the demand for the delivery 
of the schooner Amistad ; and,, secondly, to the actual situation of Don 
Jose Ruiz. 

With regard to the first subject, Mr. Forsyth recalls to mind what he 
said to this legation in his communications of the 16th and 23d of Sep-- 
tember last ; and, referring to these, he says that " the minister of Spain 
might have therein found a proof that his application was receiving all 
the notice and respect due to the source from which it emanated; and it 
was hoped that the Chevalier Argaiz would, in the various conversations 
held with him at this department on the same affair, have discovered ad- 
ditional evidence of the desire of the United States to do justice to the de- 



Doc. No. 185. 21 

mand and representation addressed to them in the name of her Catholic 

Majesty." 

The undersigned regrets exceedingly that the Secretary of State should 
have already forgotten that, since the 6th of September, the Spanish lega- 
tion, confiding in the goodness of its cause, and on the high opinion which 
it entertains of the impartial justice of the Government of the United 
States, took no other measure whatsoever, but even, to a certain extent, 
ran the risk of subjecting itself to the charge of neglecting the interests 
of Spanish subjects. The undersigned did, indeed, on the 3d of October, 
request that the cargo of the schooner should be delivered to him, as it 
might easily be injured ; but he took care, at the same time, to say in his 
note that " he solicited an act of justice, which did not at all interfere 
with the main question, as yet undetermined by the cabinet, relative to the 
negroes who were found in the schooner;" all which clearly proves that 
the undersigned would not have troubled the Government of the Union 
with his urgent demands, if the two Spaniards (who, as the Secretary of 
State, in his note of the 12th, says " were found in this distressing and 
perilous situation by officers of the United States, who, moved by sympa= 
thetic feelings, which subsequently became national") had not been the 
victims of an intrigue, as accurately shown by Mr. Forsyth, in the con- 
ference which he had with the undersigned on the 21st of October last. 

This explanation, which the undersigned has considered indispensable, 
will doubtless serve again to convince the Secretary of State of the de- 
sires which animated Senor Argaiz until the 19th of October last, and 
which he was obliged with regret to relinquish, in consequence of the im- 
prisonment of the two Spaniards above mentioned. 

The Secretary of State, however, says that " he cannot but perceive 
with regret that the Chevalier de Argaiz has not formed an accurate con- 
ception of the true character of the question, nor of the rules by which, 
under the constitutional institutions of this country, the examination of it 
must be conducted." Possibly the undersigned may not have formed such 
an accurate conception of this affair, since it has been carried within the 
circle of legal subtleties, as he has not pursued the profession of the law ; 
but he is well persuaded that, if the crew of the Amistad had been composed 
of white men, the court, or the corporation to which the Government of 
the Union might have submitted the examination of the question, would 
have observed the rules by which it should be conducted under the con- 
stitutional institutions of the country, and would have limited itself to the 
ascertainment of the facts of the murders committed on the 30th of 
June; and the undersigned does not comprehend the privilege enjoyed by 
negroes, in favor of whom an interminable suit is commenced, in which 
every thing is deposed by every person who pleases ; and, for that object, 
an English doctor, who accuses the Spanish Government of not comply- 
ing with its treaties, and calumniates the Captain General of the island of 
Cuba, by charging him with bribery. 

The undersigned with pleasure receives the assurance given to him by 
the Secretary of State, in a subsequent part of the note, " that, whatever 
may be the final settlement of the question, it will be in consequence of a 
decision emanating from the Government, and not from any other source ;" 
and he doubts not such decision will be conformable with the opinion 
which was confidentially communicated to him at the Department of 
State on the 10th of November, as founded on that of a learned lawyer, 
and which he was assured had been adopted by the cabinet. 

The undersigned, as he has already declared, would be, and is, fully 



22 Doc. No. 185. 

disposed not toeomplain of the delay whtch has occurred, and, if neces- 
sary, to " think it commensurate with the importance of the questions." If 
the causes of dissatisfaction consequent upon this delay had not exacer- 
bated the question, or, rather, the dispositions of the undersigned as well 
as of the administration, which the undersigned hopes to see restored to 
their former harmony, if he can succeed in convincing the Secretary of 
State that nothing but a sense of duty, which he considers imperious, 
would have excited him to be at times importunate, while in his personal 
character, he is more prudent and conciliatory. 

The undersigned cannot and has no power to remove the delays to 
which the claims of the United States are subjected in Madrid. The de- 
cision with regard to the demand lately made by the sloop of war Boston, 
at Havana, was not, however, thus delayed. The communication ad- 
dressed by the Captain General of that island to the Government was 
made on the 1 4th of January last, and the documents of that trial have 
now been in the hands of this Government about two months ; and, as the 
undersigned learns, though he cannot assert it positively, the circumstan- 
ces which led to that trial were committed in that port itself. If they 
were there committed, the courts of Cuba would, according to the opinion 
of learned lawyers, have the right to take cognizance of them ; and if 
they were so committed, the Government of Her Catholic Majesty has 
doubtless preferred renouncing this right, and thus giving to that of the 
United States a new proof of its disposition to strengthen farther the bonds 
of friendship which fortunately unite the two nations. 

The Secretary of State, in his abovementioned note, then goes on to 
treat the second part of the subject — that is to say, the seizure of Messrs. 
Ruiz and Monies ; and alleges that the assistance given by the attorney 
of the United States for the district of New York was a favor entirely 
gratuitous, afforded to Ruiz in consequence of the desire, on the part of 
the government of the Union, to give due respect to the petition in his fa- 
vor made in the name of Her Catholic Majesty. The undersigned has 
endeavored to show that the Government of this Union was under the ot- 
ligation to place Ruiz in such a position as should assure the fulfilment of 
the 8th article of the treaty of 1795. Unfortunately, the reasons assigned 
with this view have not been sufficiently powerful to produce conviction 
in the mind of the Secretary of State ; nor is the undersigned more con- 
vinced by the declaration of the Secretary of State, that " no cause of dis- 
satisfaction would have arisen in this affair, had they not deferred availing 
themselves of this liberty, to leave the country until the moment of their 
arrest," &c. Certainly they would not have remained in the country so 
long; and they would have abandoned it, to the injury of their interests, 
had they been able to foresee that, though respecting the laws and con- 
ducting themselves honorably, they were not exempt from the persecu- 
tions of an atrocious intrigue, (and the undersigned is not the first who 
has thus styled this persecution,) as if they could have imagined that, for 
supposed dehnquencies committed in their own country, or under their 
own national flag, they would have been confined in a prison, or required 
to give enormous bail. They, however, believed the contrary, (what 
few Spaniards can now persuade themselves of;) that, while infringing 
no law or police regulation, they would enjoy their individual liberty in 
this republic. And, sir, who will not be shocked at the complaint pre- 
ferred against them? By whom is it preferred? The undersigned, in 
addition to all that he has said on this subject, will now add, that the 
complainants (if the negroes be the complainants) may be considered , 



Doc. No. 185. 23 

morally and legally, as not being in the United States. They are mor- 
ally and legally not in the United States, because the court of Connecticut 
has not declared whether or not it is competent to try them. If it should 
declare itself incompetent, it declares that they are under the cover of the 
Spanish flag ; and, in that case, they are physically under the protection 
of a friendly Government, but morally and legally out of the territory 
and jurisdiction of the United States ; and, so long as a doubt remains on 
this subject, no Judge can admit the complaint. If this argument be of 
any value with the Secretary of State of the Government of the Union, 
the undersigned entreats him to prevail on the President to cause a pro- 
test, founded upon this argument, to be officially addressed to the court 
of New York. 

The undersigned flatters himself with the hope that the Secretray of 
State of the Union will conceive how painful it is to him to trouble that 
gentleman again about this affair, and will also see that he is under the 
obligation to do so. If the persecution under which Seiior Ruiz is suf- 
fering were the consequence of his own faults, if his conduct in these 
United States had been such as to render his arrest just, the undersigned 
would have abandoned him to his own means of defence, and would 
never have intruded upon the attention of the Secretary of State. 

But unfortunately, this affair is so closely allied to that of the Amistad, 
that the undersigned cannot, without a heavy responsibility, refrain from 
doing whatever his sense of duty dictates. 

The undersigned avails himself of this opportunity' to repeat to the 
Secretary of Slate of the Federal Government of the Union the assur- 
ances of his very high consideration. 

THE CHEVALIER DE ARGAIZ. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 



The Chevalier de Argaiz to Mr. Forsyth. 

fTRANSL.\TION.] 

Washington, Decemher 30, 1839. 

Sir: In the conversation which I had with you on the morning of the 
day before yesterday, you mentioned the possibility that the court of 
Connecticut might, at its meeting on the 7th of January next, declare it- 
self incompetent, or order the restitution of the schooner Amistad, with 
her cargo, and the negroes found on board of her ; and you then showed 
me that it would be necessary for the legation of Her Catholic Majesty 
to take charge of them as soon as the court should have pronounced its 
sentence or resolution ; and, although I had the honor to state to you 
that this legation could not possibly transfer the said negroes to Havana, 
still it appears proper for me now to declare that — 

Considering that the schooner Amistad cannot make a voyage, on ac- 
count of the bad condition in which she is, of her being entirely without 
a crew ; 

Considering tliat it would be difllcult to find a vessel of the United 
States willing to take charge of these negroes, and to transport them to 
Havana ; and, also, that these negroes have declared before the court of 
Connecticut that they are not slaves, and that the best means of testing the 
'ruth of their allegation is to bring them before the courts of Havana: 



24 Doc. No. 185. 

Being at the same time desirous to free the Government of the United 
States from the trouble of keeping the said negroes in prison, I venture 
to request you to prevail upon the President to allow to the Government 
of Her Catholic Majesty the assistance which it asks under the present 
circumstances from that of the United States, by placing the negroes 
found on board of the said schooner, and claimed by this legation, at the 
disposition of the Captain General of the island of Cuba, transporting 
them thither in a ship belonging to the United States. Her Catholic 
Majesty's Government, I venture to assert, will receive this act of gen- 
erosity as a most particular favor, which would serve to strengthen the 
bonds of good and reciprocal friendship now happily reigning between 
the two nations. 

I, for my own part, confiding in your kindness, do not hesitate to de- 
clare that I shall be most happy to be able to announce to my Govern- 
ment this new proof of friendship, for which I now, by anticipation, give 
thanks. 

I repeat to you, sir, the assurances of my distinguished consideration, 

THE CHEVALIER DE ARGAIZ. 

Hon. J. Forsyth, Secretary of State. 



Mr Forsyth to the Chevalier de Argaiz. 

Department of State, 

Washington Jarmary 6, 1840. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 
20th ultimo, in which, anticipating an early decision by the circuit court 
of Connecticut in the case of the schooner " Amistad," you request that 
as a particular favor to the Spanish Government, the President may be 
pleased, in the event of the decision of the court being favorable to the 
application of the Spanish legation for the surrender of the vessel, and 
the negroes and property found on board, to place the negroes at the dis- 
position of the Captain General of Cuba, and to grant the use of a vessel 
of the United States for the purpose of conveying them to that island. 

Having laid your note before the President, I am instructed to state to 
you that, in the event of the decision of the circuit court of Connecticut, 
in the case referred to, being such as anticipated, the schooner " Amistad," 
which you represent as not being in a condition to go to sea, will, with 
such goods as were found on board, be delivered to any persons whom 
you may designate ; and that, animated by that spirit of accommodation 
and reciprocal convenience which the President is anxious should ever 
characterise the relations between the two Governments, he will cause 
the necessary orders to be given for a vessel of the United States to be 
held in readiness to receive the negroes and convey them to Cuba, with 
instructions to the commander to deliver them to the Captain General of 
the island. The President has the more readily been inclined to ac-i 
cede to your request in this particular, on account of one of the leading 
motives which prompted you to make it : that the negroes* having assert- 
ed before the court of Connecticut that they are not slaves, may have an 
opportunity of proving the truth of their allegation before the proper tri- 
bunals of the island of Cuba, by whose laws alone, taking in connection 
with circumstances occurring before the arrival of the negroes in the Unit- 



Doc. No. 185. 25 

ed States, the question of their condition can be legally decided. With 
a view to facilitate any steps which the authorities of Cuba may think fit 
to institute in the matter, by unquestionable testimony, as to the circum- 
stances attending the arrival of the negroes in the United States, and the 
proceedings in our courts consequent thereon, the President has thought 
proper further to order that a complete record of those proceedings be 
prepared and forwarded to the Captain General of Cuba, by the officer 
who shall have charge of the negroes ; and that Lieutenants Gedneyand 
Meade, by whose agency, chiefly, those people were brought within our 
jurisdiction, shall proceed in the same vessel, for the purpose of offering 
to the local authorities their testimony, and the benefit of the knowledge 
they possess of the circumstances of the case. To aid those officers in 
the performance of the duty thus to be assigned to them, I request that 
you will furnish them, through this department, with letters of introduc- 
tion to such of the colonial authorities as you may think proper; and in- 
asmuch as that for the purpose of their intended visit to Cuba they may 
be withdrawn from the discharge of their ordinary duties, I request fur- 
ther that you will express to the proper quarter the desire of the President 
that, if their testimony shall appear useful or important, it may be taken 
with as little delay as practicable, that they may be enabled soon to re- 
turn to the United States. 

Be pleased to accept the renewed assurances of my distinguished con- 
sideration. JOHN FORSYTH. 

The Chevalier be Aegaiz, c^c, <^c., ^c. 



Mr. Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. 
[extract.] 

District of Connecticut, 
Office of District Attorney, Winchester^ September 5, 1839. 
Sir : You are undoubtedly apprised of the fact that the marshal of this 
district has in custody the Spanish schooner " Amistad," with her cargo 
and 41 blacks, supposed to be slaves. A court of inquiry has been holden 
by the district judge of this district on board the schooner, and the blacks 
indicted for the murder of the captain and mate. It appears from the 
evidence that the blacks (slaves) were taken on board the schooner at a 
port in the island of Cuba, to transport to another port in the same island j 
when from seven to ten leagues out, they murdered the captain and mate, 
and took possession of the schooner, (27th or 28th of June.) On the 
26th of August last they were discovered off Montauk point by the crew 
of the surveying brig Washington, commanded by Lieutenant Gedney, 
and by him boarded and brought into the port of New London, in this 
district. The blacks were committed, and ard now in the jail at New 
Haven. The schooner and cargo have been li&elled by Lieutenant Ged- 
ney and crew for salvage. The next term of |our circuit court sits on 
the 17th instant, at which time I suppose it will be my duty to bring them 
to trial, unless they are in some other way disposed of. Should you have 
any instructions to give on the subject, I should like to receive them as 
soon as may be. 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

W. S. HOLABIRD, 
United States District Attorney. 
Hon. John Forsyth, Secretary of State. 
4 



26 . Doc. No. 185. 

Mr. Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. [^ 

[extracts.] 

" Hartford, (Conn.) Septemier 9, 183&, 
" Sir : I wrote you a few days since on the subject of the blacks taken' 
on board the Spanish schooner ' Amistad.' Since then 1 have made a 
further examination of the law on the subject of the jurisdiction of our 
courts, which has brought me fully to the conclusion, that the courts nei- 
ther of this nor of any other district in the United States can take cogni- 
zance of any offence they have committed, as the offence by them com- 
mitted was done and committed on board a vessel belonging exclusively 
to citizens of a foreign State, on the high seas, and on and against sub- 
jects of a foreign State : and they (the blacks) not being citizens of the 
United States, the vessel having a national character at the time the 
offence was committed. I refer you to the case of the United States vs. 
Palmer et al., 3 Wheat., p. 610; United States vs. Pirates, 5 Wheat.^ 
p. 195 ; and the more recent case of the United States vs. Henry Kess- 
ler, Baldwin, C. C. Rep. 15. 

" I would respectfully inquire, sir, whether there are no treaty stipu- 
fations with the Government of Spain that would authorize our Govern- 
ment to deliver them up to the Spanish authorities ; and if so, whether 
it could be done before our court sits ? " 



Mr, Forsyth to Mr. Holabird. 

Department of State, 
Washington, September 11, 1839. 
Sir : , Since the receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, relative to 
the case of the Spanish schooner " Amistad," brought into the port of 
New London on the 26th ultimo, by Lieutenant Gedney, of the survey- 
ing brig Washington, a communication has been addressed to this depart- 
ment by the minister of Her Catholic Majesty, claiming the vessel, cargo^ 
and blacks on board, as Spanish property, and demanding its immediate 
release. Mr. Calderon's application will be immediately transmitted to 
the President for his decision upon it, with which you will be made ac- 
quainted without unnecessary delay. In the mean time you will take 
care that no proceeding of your circuit court, or of any other judicial 
tribunal, places the vessel, cargo, or slaves beyond the control of the 
Federal Executive. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
Wm. S. Holabird, Esq., 

United States Attorney for the District of Conn., Winchester .^ 



Mr. Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. 

District of Connecticut, 
Circuit Court, Hartford, September 21, 1839. 
Sir : Your instructions on the subject of the negroes brought in in the 
Amistad was duly received on the day the session of the court com- 



Doc. No. 185. 27 

menced, and the contents thereof communicated to the court. As the 
court did not charge the grand jury at the opening of the court, I thought 
it oiy duty, and deemed it, as the matter stood, advisable to file bills of 
indictment against the negroes, and did so, for the murder of the captam 
and cook of the schooner, and also for piracy ; also, with a view of 
carrying out your instructions, filed a libel in the district court against 
the negroes, in behalf of the United States, averring the fact that Her 
Catholic Majesty the Glueen of Spain had demanded of the Government 
the surrendering, &c. ; and also alleging that they were imported in 
violation of the law of 1819, prohibiting the importation of negroes from 
Africa, &c. ; praying the court to decree that the marshal hold them 
subject to the order of the Federal Executive on the one claim or the 
other, as the facts should be found and warrant. Dons Pedro Montes 
and Jose Ruiz have also filed claims for such portions of the negroes and 
cargo as respectively belonged to them ; the Spanish consul also filed a 
claim in behalf of the representatives of Captain Ferrer, deceased, for 
the schooner and part of the cargo. A writ of habeas corpus was then 
prayed out in this court, in behalf of the negroes, by Tappan, &c. The 
grand jury, after two days of investigation, came into court with a finding 
of facts, to wit : That the schooner was owned by Captain Ferrer, a 
Spanish subject ; sailed from Havana for the port of Guanaja, in the 
island of Cuba ; third day out, the negroes murdered the captain and 
cook, and took possession of the schooner, &c. ', and requested the court 
to charge them on the law, applicable to that state of facts. The court 
charged that they had jurisdiction of any offence they (the negroes) may 
have committed on board that vessel.* The habeas corpus has been 
under discussion the last two days. They take the ground that the dis- 
trict court has not jurisdiction ; that the Federal Executive is not autho- 
rized lo surrender the blacks, under the treaty siipulations with Spain, 
nor as fugitives from justice, under international law. The court pro- 
bably entertain doubts, as they have requested the case re-argued. The 
court will probably decide the question on Monday next. 

I hope, sir, in case the Executive makes any order on the subject of 
the negroes, that you will give me early notice of it. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, in haste, 

W. S. HOLABTRD 
United States District Attorney. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 

* It was exactly the reverse. Judge Thompson stated that no cri.ninal offence had 
been committed by the Africans cognizable by the Courts of the United States. " If," 
said he, " the offence of murder has been committed on board a foreign vessel, with 
a foreign crew and with foreign papers, this is not an offence against the United 
States. It is an offence against the laws of the country to which the vessel belonged. 
The courts of the United States have, in such cases, no jurisdiction — but if the offence 
be against the law of nations this court would have jurisdiction. A murder commit- 
ed, as in the case of the Amistad, is not a crime against the law of nations, connect- 
ed as it is with the slave trade." This extract is from the opinion of Judge Thomp. 
son, reported for the newspapers and extensively published at the time. The judge, 
after perusing this letter of Mr. Holabird, told the writer of this note that he had 
been made to say in it precisely the reverse of what he did say, and that his opinion 
was very correctly reported in the papers from which the above quotation is an extract. 



28 Doc. No. 185. 

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Holabird. 

Departbient of State, 
Washington, September 23, 1839. 

Sir : It is necessary to a just decision on the various points presenting 
themselves for the President's consideration, in the case of the Spanish 
schooner " Amistad," that this department should be furnished with a 
copy of the ship's papers, together with a transcript of the proceedings 
of the court of inquiry held by the district judge on board the vessel, to 
which you refer in your letter of the 5th instant, and on which the blacks 
were imprisoned for the alleged murder of the captain and mate. I 
have, therefore, to request that you will transmit to me, with as little 
delay as practicable, copies of the papei's, and of the evidence afore- 
mentioned. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

W. S. Holabird, Esq. 

United States Attorney, for theDist. of Conn., Hartford. 



Mr. Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. 

District of Connecticut, 
Office of District Attorney, Winchester, October 13, 1839. 

Sir : Yours of the 23d ultimo, requesting copies of the papers of the 
" Amistad," together with a transcript of the proceedings of the court 
of inquiry held by the district judge on board the schooner, did not reach 
me until the 7th instant; since which time I have used every reasonable 
endeavor to possess myself of the papers of said schooner, without yet 
being able to obtain them, they having been retained by Jose Ruiz , I 
hope soon to be able to comply with your request. 

Tne facts regarding the matter were not as fully disclosed at the court 
of inquiry as they afterwards were before the grand jury, at the cir- 
cuit court. 

On the 22d instant, in pursuance of the order of the court, I intend 
to make a particular examination of the place where the schooner lay 
when taken possession of by Lieutenant Gedney. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

W. S, HOLABIRD, 
U. S. District Attorney:^ 

Hon. John Foksyth, Secretary of State. 



Mr. Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. 

New Haven, November 5, 1839, 

Sir : I herewith send you copies of the papers found on board the 
Spanish schooner Amistad at the time she was taken. Also a copy of 
the first warrant on which the blacks were committed. 

You will find, by reference to my several letters written you since the 
commencement of the United States circuit court, on the 17th day of 
September last, an account of the proceedings which have been had on 
the matter. As a final decision is to be had on the third Tuesday of 
instant November, allow me to suggest, that, if there is any action to be 



Doc. No. 185. 



29 



had on the part of the Government, with reference to the blacks, it is 
important that we be informed, either officially or unofficially, before the 
session of the court. As directed by the court, I have made an examin- 
ation of the place where the Amistad lay at the time she was taken, 
and find her lying clearly and decidedly upon the high seas. She lay a 
little withinside of Montauk Point, in 3| to 4 fathoms water, and about 
three-fourths of a mile distance from the shore, there being no harbor, 
bay, or inlet, to protect her in the least. 

I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant, 

W. S. HOLABIRD, 
U. S. District Attorney^ Conn. Disi. 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State, Washington City. 

,, [Passport for J. Ruiz."] 

[Passport for P. Monies.'\ 

Passport for I4i9 slaves belonging to J. Ruiz. 

N. Habana, 26 de Junio de 1 839. 

Concedo licencia, a cuerenta y nueva negros 
ladinos, nombrados Antonio, Simon, Lucas, Jose, 
Pedro, Martin, Manuel, Andres, Eduardo, Celedo- 
nio, Bartolo, Ramon, Agustin, Evaristo, Casimiro, 
Melchor, Gabriel, Santorion, Escolastico, Pascual, 
Estanislao, Desiderio, Nicolas, Esteban, Tomas, 
Cosme, Luis, Bartolo, Julian, Frederico, Salustiano, 
Ladislao, Celestino, Epifaneo, Tibureo, Venancio, 
Felipe, Francisco, Hipolito, Benito, Ysidoro, Vi- 
cente, Dionisio, Apoloneo, Esequiel, Leon, Julio, 
Hipolito, y Zenon, de la propiedad de Don Jose 
Ruiz, para que pasen a Puerto Principe por mar, 
debiendo presentarse con esta al juez territorial 
respective. 

Espelata — Derecho dos reales— una rubrica Comandancia de Matri- 
culas. Pasan en la goleta Amistad a la Guanaja, patron Ferrer. 

Habana, y Junio 27 de 1839. MARTINEZ. 



Filiacion. 

Estatura - 

Edad 

Color 

Pelo - 

Frente 

Cejas 

Ojos - 

Nariz 

Boca 

Barba 

Senales particulares 



Passport for three slaves belonging to P. Montes. 

N. Habana, 22 de Junio de 1839. 



Filiacion. 

Estatura - 

Edad 

Color 

Pelo . 

Frente 

Cejas 

Ojos - 

Nariz % " 

Boca 

Barba 

Senales particulare 



Concedo hcencia a tres negras ladinas, nom- 
bradas Juana, Francisca, y Josefa, de la propie- 
dad de Don Pedro Montes, para que pasen 4 
Puerto Principe por mar, debiendo presentarse con 
esta aljuez territorial respective. 



30 



Doc. No. 185. 



Espeleta — Derecho dos reales — una rubrica. Comandancia de Matri- 
culas. Pasan en la goleta Amistad a la Guanaja, patron Ferrer. 
Habana, y Junio 27 de 1839. MARTINEZ. 



[^Protectionfor Celestino Ferrer.^ 



[^Protection for Jacinto Verdagne.'\ 



[Register of the Amistad, her clearance and passport by all the authorities 
for the crew and passengers, vessel, «^c.] 



[Permit of the custom-house for skipping goods."} 



[Passport for J. Ruiz. 



[Passport for P. Monies.'] 



Description. 

Height 

Age 

Complexion 

Eyes 

Nose 

Mouth 

Skin 

Eyebrows 

Beard 

Particular marks 



Passport for 49 slaves belonging to J. Ruiz. 

Havana, June 26, 1839. 
I grant permission to forty-nine sound ne- 
gros,* named Antonio, Simon, Lucas, Jose, 
Pedro, Martin, Manuel, Andres, Edward, Ce- 
ledonio, Bartolo, Ramon, Agustin, Evanisto, Casi- 
miro, Melchior, ; Gabriel, Santorion, Escolastico, 
Pascual, Estanislao, Desiderio, Nicolas, Este- 
ban, Tomas, Cosme, Luis, Bartolo, Julian, Frede- 
rico, Salustiano, Ladislao, Celestino, Epifaneo, 
Tiburcio, Venducio, Felipe, Hipolito, Benito, 
Isidore, Vicente, Dionisio, Apoloneo, Esequiel, 
Leon, Julio, Hipolito, and Zenon, all belonging 
to Don Jose Ruiz, to go to Puerto Prin- 
cipe by sea, they being required to present 
themselves before the respective territorial 
judges. 



T"* " Sound negroes !" This is a fraudulent translation — See the original Spanish 
document, page 29. There the phrase is " negros ladinos" which, as is well known, 
means negros long settled in Cuba, and acclimated there, and introduced before 
1820 — a term totally inapplicable to Bozals or negros recently imported. See depo- 
sition in District Court by Dr. Madden, Briti .. Superintendent of liberated Africans 
at Havana. And yet the officers of the United States Court have procured a trans- 
lation of the passport, in which " negros LADINGS " is made to read '' sound ne- 
gros !" And this is contained in a public document, transmitted to Congress by the 
President of the United States, and published by authority of the House of Repre- 
sentatives ! ! 



Doc. No. 185. . ^ 31 

Espeleta — Duty two reals — one stamp. Comandancia de Matriculas. 
They go in the schooner Amistad, Captain Ramon Ferrer, to Guanaja. 
Havana, June 27, 1839. MARTINEZ. 



Passport for three slaves belonging to P. Montes. 

Havana, June 22, 1839. 
Description. 



Height 

Age _ - 

Complexion 

Eyes 

Nose 

Mouth 

Skin 

Eyebrows 

Beard 

Particular marks 

Espeleta — Duty one real — one signature. Comandancia de Matriculas. 
They go in the schooner Amistad, Captain Ferrer, to Guanaja. 

Havana, June 27, 1839. MARTINEZ. 



I grant permission to three sound negro 
women,* named Juana, Francisca, and Jose- 
fa, belonging to Don Pedro Montes, to go to 
Puerto Principe by sea, they being required 
to present themselves before the respective 
territorial judges. 



[Protection for Celestino Ferrer. 1 



[Protection for Jacinto VerdagneJ] 



[Register of the Amistad, her clearance and passport.^ by all the authori' 
ties, for the crew and passengers, vessel, Src. 



[Permits of the Custom-house for shipping goods."] 



To the Marshal of the district of Connecticut, greeting : 

Whereas, upon the complaint and information of the United States by 
William S. Holabird, district attorney of the United States for said district, 
against Simon, Lucas, Joseph, Feter, Martin, Manuel, Andrew, Edward, 
Caledonio, Bartholomew, Raymond, Augustin, Evaristo, Casimir, Mel- 
chior, Gabriel, Santorion, Escolastico, Paschal, Stanislaus, Desiderio, 
Nicholas, Stephen, Thomas, Cosme, Louis, Bartholomew, Julian, Fred- 
erick, Sallustiano, Ladislao, Celestino, Epiphaneo, Tiburcio, Venducio 
Philip, Hypolite, Benito, Isidore, Vincent, Dyonisius, Apoloneo, Ezekiel, 
Leon, Julius, Hypolite, and Zenon, for the murder of Ramon Ferrer, on 
the 25th day of June, 1839, on the high seas, within the admiralty and 

* The words here translated " sound negro women," are in the original Spanish 
see page 29) " negras ladinas," that is negros long settled in Cuba. See note on 
page 30. 



32 Doc. No. 185. 

maritime jurisdiction of the United States, it was ordered and adjudged by 
the undersigned that they, against whom said information and complaint 
was made, stand committed to appear before the circuit court of the Unit- 
ed States for the district of Connecticut, to be holden at Hartford, in said 
district, on the 17th day of September, 1839, to answer to the said crime 
of murder, as set forth in said information and complaint. 

You are therefore commanded to take the said persons named as above, 
and charged with said crime, and them safely keep in the jail in New Ha- 
ven, in said district, and them have before the circuit court of the United 
States, to be holden at Hartford, in said district, on the 17th day of Sep- 
tember, A. D. 1839. Hereof fail not, &c. 

Dated at New London, August 29, 1839, 

ANDREW P. JUDSON, 
Judge of the Untied States for the district of Connecticut. 

District of Connecticut, ss. 

Then 1 proceeded to arrest the within named persons, but found they 
did not answer to the names set forth in this warrant, they being the names 
given them at Havana for the purpose of shipment, but found them to an- 
swer to the following ncmcs, to wit : Cinque, Barnah 1st, Carpru, Demu- 
rah, Forrie 1st, Thumah, Wolwah, Tooch, Couomah,Choolah, Barnah 2d, 
Boah, Cabbah, Poomah, Rimbo, Puah, Bang-te-ah, Saah, Coulu, Poule, 
Morrah, Yahonie, Nahquoe, Quahto, Lesse, Cen, Forrie 2d, Kennah, 
Larmance, Fajanah, Faah, Yahboy, Fahquanah, Berrie, Fawnie, Chack- 
amaso, Gahbow, and Fasa, I therefore took the above-named persons into 
custody, and them committed to the custody and keeping of the jailer at 
New Haven, in said district ; and left with the said jailer a true and attest- 
ed copy of this warrant ; and now, on this 17th of September, 1839, have 
them in my custody at Hartford, as within, except Fasa, who died Sep- 
tember 3d, Faah, who died September 11th, and Wolwah, who died Sep- 
tember 14, 1839. 

New London, August 29, 1839. 

Attest '. 

NORRIS WILCOX, ~ 
United States Marshal for the district of Connecticut. 

Marshal's Office, Jfovember 1, 1839. 

The foregoing is a true copy of the original warrant, with my doings 
thereon endorsed. 

Attest ■ 

N. WILCOX, Marshal. 



To the Marshal of the district of Connecticut, greeting : 

Whereas, upon the complaint and information of the United States by 
William S. Holabird, Esq., district attorney of the United States for said 
district, against Simon and others, for the murder of Ramon Ferrer, on the 
25th day of June, 1839, on the high seas, within the admiralty and mari- 
time jurisdiction of the United States, it was ordered and adjudged that they, 
the said Simon and others, stand committed to appear before the circuit 
court of the United States for the district of Connecticut, to be holden at 



Doc. No. 185. Sa 

Hartford, in said district, on the 17th day of September, 1839, to answer to 
the crime as set forth in said complaint : and whereas Joanna, Frances, 
Ann, Josephine, and Anthony, witnesses for the United States in said in- 
formation and complaint, were ordered by the undersigned severally to be- 
come recognised to the United States, with surety in the sum of one hun- 
dred dollars, to appear before said circuit court at the time and place above 
named, as witnesses to testify to the charge set forth in said complaint and 
information ; and they, and each of them, having neglected to become re- 
cognised as aforesaid, you are, therefore, commanded to take the said 
Joanna, Frances, Ann, Josephine, and Anthony, and them safely keep in the 
jail in New Haven in said district, and them have before the circuit court of 
the United States, to be holden at Hartford, in said district, on the 17th 
day of September, 1839. Hereof fail not, &c. 
Dated at New London, August 29, 1839. 

ANDREW P. JUDSON, 
Judge of the, U. S. for ike District of Connecticut. 

District of Connecticut, ss. 

Then I took into custody the within named persons answering to the 
following names, to wit : Antonio, Time, Kine, Mahgra, and Carrii, and 
them committed into the custody and keeping of the keeper of the jail in 
New Haven, in said district of Connecticut ; and left with said jailer a true 
and attested copy of this warrant ; and now, on this 17th day of Septem- 
ber, A. D. 1839, them have in my custody at Hartford, as within I am 
directed 

* Attest: NORRIS WILCOX, 

U. S. Marshal for District of Connecticut. 

New London, August 29, 1839. 

Marshal's Office, New Haven, 

JVovember 1, 1839. 
The foregoing is a true copy of the original, with my doings thereon en- 
dorsed. 

Attest : N. WILCOX, Marshal 



Mr, Holabird to Mr. Forsyth. 

District of Connecticut, 
Office of Dist. Att'y, Winchester, JYovember 14, 1839. 
Sir : I am under the necessity of asking for authority to draw on the 
marshal of the district for a reasonable sum, to enable me to employ as- 
sistant counsel in the case of the Amistad and negroes. My health is 
feeble ; and if the matter is not disposed of by the Executive before our 
court sits, much is to be done. The fees allowed to the district attorney 
in this district are so small, that should I surrender all that could be taxed 
to my assistant counsel, it would not be considered really as any com- 
pensation. I named this subject to tho President at Albany ; who re- 
marked that, in case I found it necessary, I could make the application 
to you. 

I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

W. S. HOLABIRD. 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary/ of Slate. 
5 



34 Doc. No. 185. 

Acting Secretary of State to Mr. Holabird. 

Department of State, 
Washington, November IS, 1839. 
Sir : Your letter of the 14th instant was, last evening, received at this 
department. The President, to whom it has been submitted, has instruct- 
ed me to authorise you to employ an assistant counsel in the case of the 
Amistad, whose compensation, not to exceed two hundred dollars, will be 
determined by this department. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

A. VAIL, 
Acting Secretary of State. 
W. S. Holabird, Esq., 

Atfy U. S.for Dist. of Conn., J^ew Haven. 



Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Holabird. 

Departmemt of State, 

Washi7igton, January 6, 1840. 

Sir : Your letter of the 20th ultimo was duly received, and has been 
laid before the President. The Spanish minister having applied to this 
department for the use of a vessel of the United States, in the event of 
the decision of the circuit court in the case of the Amistad being favora- 
ble to his former application, to convey the negroes to Cuba, for the pur- 
pose of being delivered over to the authorities of that island, the Presi- 
dent has, agreeably to your suggestion, taken in connection with the re- 
quest of the Spanish minister, ordered a vessel to be in readiness to re- 
ceive the negroes from the custody of the marshal as soon as their delive- 
ry shall have been ordered by the court.* As the request of the Spanish 
minister for the delivery of the negroes to the authorities of Cuba has, for 
one of its objects, that those people should have an opportunity of proving^ 
before the tribunals of the island, the truth of the allegations made in 
their behalf in the course of the proceedings before the circuit court that 
they are not slaves, the President, desirous of affording the Spanish courts 
every facility that may be derived from this country towards a fair and 
full investigation of ail the circumstances, and particularly of the allega- 
tion referred to with regard to the real condition of the negroes, has di- 
rected that Lieutenants Gedney and Meade be directed to proceed to Cuba, 
for the purpose of giving their testimony in any proceedings that may be 
instituted there in the premises ; and that complete records of all those 
which have been had before the circuit court of your district, including 
the evidence taken in the cause, be, with the same view, furnished to the 
Spanish colonial authorities. In obedience to this last mentioned order, 

* A most extraordinary procedure. The government could not wait, it seems, to 
learn the decision of the court before taking action to facilitate the designs of the 
Spaniards in removing their victims from the shores of this free country. And this 
was done, at the suggestion of the U. S. Attorney for the District of Connecticut, in 
connection with the request of the Spanish minister! In the sequel it will be seen 
that the object was to remove the Africans before the case could be appealed by their 
counsel. To W. S. Holabird, Esquire, of Connecticut, belongs the infamy of mak- 
ing this " suggestion," so eagerly entertained by the government of the United 
States. 



Doc. No. 185. 35 

you will cause to be prepared an authentic copy of the records of the 
court in the case, and of all the documents and evidence connected with 
if, so as to have it ready to be handed over to the commander of the ves- 
sel which is to take out the negroes, who will be instructed as to the dis- 
position he is to make of them. 

With regard to the schooner Amistad, which the Spanish minister rep- 
resents not to be in a condition to be sent to sea, and the goods found on 
board as part of her cargo, as the presumption is that the court will de- 
cree the same disposition of them as of the negroes, they are to remain 
in the custody of the marshal, to be delivered over to such persons as the 
Spanish minister may appoint ; subject, however, in case of their being 
sold in the United States, to the legal demands of the custom-house upon 
them, 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

W. S. HOLABIRD, Esq., 

Atfy U. S. for Dist. of Conn. ^ J^ew Haven. 



Mr. Hclabird to Mr. Forsyth. 

New Haven, January 11, 1840. 

Sir : Lieutenant Paine has shown me the Executive warrant to the 
marshal of this district for the delivery of the negroes of the Amistad, 
in which it is stated that they are now holden in custody under a process 
from the '■^circuit court-" and also, in his instructions, the same term is 
used. They are not holden. under any order of the circuit court, but un- 
der an order from the district court., and should have been so staled in 
the warrant and instructions. Should the pretended friends of the negroes 
obtain a writ of habeas corpus, the marshal could not justify under that 
warrant. 

The marshal wishes me to inquire whether, in the event of a decree by 
the court requiring him to release the negroes, or in case of an appeal by 
the adverse party, it is expected the Executive warrant will be executed ; 
and requests your instructions on that subject. 

I have deemed it my duty to dispatch a messenger asking a correction 
of the aforesaid errors in the warrant and instructions, and your addition- 
al instructions on the points aforesaid, as requested by the marshal.* 

We are progressing with the trial. The evidence is all in, and the case 
will probably be submitted to the court to-day ; and a decision will un- 
doubtedly be had by the time the bearer will be able to return to this 
place. 

In great haste, I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

W. S. HOLABIRD, 
United States District Attorney. 

Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 

* The indecent haste of the government in affording facilities to the Spaniards to 
remove their victims is seen in the phraseology of the warrant of the President of the 
United Stales, in which the term •' Circuit Court" is used for " District Court" (see 
page 48) an error requiring the dispatch of a special messenger to Washington to have 
it rectified so that a legal warrant might be obtained from the seat of government be- 
fore the conclusion of the trial, lest perchance, an appeal should be entered, and thus 
the design of government be defeated ! 



36 Doc. No. 185. 

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Holabird. 
[confidential.] 

Department of State, January 12, 1840. 
Sir : Your letter of the 1 1th instant has just been received. The or 
der for the delivery of the negroes of the Amistad is herevi^ith returned, 
corrected agreeably to your suggestion. With reference to the inquiry 
from the marshal, to which you allude, I have to state, by direction of the 
President, that, if the decision of the court is such as is anticipated, the 
order of the President is to be carried into execution, unless an appeal 
shall actually have been interposed. You are not to take it for granted 
that it will be interposed.* And if, on the contrary, the decision of the 
court is different, you are to take out an appeal, and allow things to re- 
main as they are until the appeal shall have been decided. 
I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
W. S. Holabird, Esq., 

Attorney U. S., Marshal for Dist. of Connecticut. 

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Holabird. 

Department of State, 
Washington, January 17, 1840. 

Sir : The instructions in my communication of the 12th instant, in 
relation to the case of the Amistad, the decision of which has been re- 
ceived at this department, would probably supersede the necessity of any 
further directions as to the course left for you to pursue. For fear, how- 
ever, that that communication should not have reached you, I have to 
acquaint you with the desire of the President, that you take the neces- 
sary measures to carry the case, by appeal, to the circuit court, both on 
that branch of the decision which relates to the negroes, and that which 
grants salvage on the vessel and the goods found on board. That part 
which concerns the slave Antonio is not to be disturbed ; and instruc- 
tions will be forwarded to you, designating the parties to whom he is ta 
be delivered up. 

From information which has reached this department, there appears 
to be a disposition, on the part of the parties interested in the vessel and 
cargo, either to sell the property, and deposite the proceeds to abide the 
final issue of the case, or to ask the delivery of it on bond, to answer the 
same contingency. With a view to save the property from further loss 
by deterio.ration, you are desired to countenance any movement that may 
be made in this regard by the proper persons, taking care that the rights 
of all be effectually and equally protected ; but no proposition, in this 
particular, is to be made by you without further instructions from this 
department, which will be given if the Spanish minister shall request 
them. I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

W. S. Holabird, Esq., Attorney 

U. S. District of Connecticut, New Haven, 

*^Mark this ! — " You are not to take it for granted that it (an appeal) will be inter- 
posed." That is, if the Counsel for the Africans do not enter an appeal instanter, the 
Africans are to be hurried on board the U. S. Schooner Grampus, and taken to Cu- 
ba — there to be made a terrific example of to terrify the Bozal negroes not to make a 
similar strike for liberty ! 



Doc. Nc. 185. 37 

Opinion of the Attorney General. 

Attorney General's Office, 1839. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 
24th of September, in which, by direction of the President, you refer to 
this office the letter of the Spanish minister of the 6th of September, ad- 
dressed to you ; also the letter of Selh P. Staples and Theodore Sedg- 
wick, jr., Esqrs., who have been ^engaged as counsel for the negroes 
taken on board the schooner Amistad, addressed to the President of the 
United States ; and asking my opinion upon the different legal questions 
presented by these papers. 

I have given to the subject all the consideration which its importance 
demands ; and now present to you, and through you to the President, the 
result of my reflections upon the whole subject. 

The following is the statement of facts contained in your communi- 
cation : " The Amistad is a Spanish vessel ; was regularly cleared from 
Havana, a Spanish port in Cuba, to Guanaja, in the neighborhood of 
Puerto Principe, another Spanish port ; that her papers were regular ; 
that the cargo consisted of merchandise and slaves, and was duly mani- 
fested as belonging to Don Jose Ruiz and Don Pedro Montes ; that the 
negroes, after being at sea a few days, rose upon the white persons on 
board ; that the captain, his slave, and two seamen, were killed, and the 
vessel taken possession of by the negroes ; that two white Spaniards, 
after being wounded, were compelled to assist in navigating the vessel, 
the negroes intending to carry her to the coast of Africa ; that the Span- 
iards contrived, by altering the course of steering at night, to keep her on 
the coast of the United States ; that, on seeing land off New York, they 
came to the coast, and some of the negroes landed to procure water and 
provisions ; that, being on the point of leaving the coast, the Amistad was 
visited by a boat from Captain Gedney's vessel, and that one of the 
Spaniards, claiming protection from the officer commanding the boat, the 
vessel and cargo, and all the persons on board, were sent into New Lon- 
don for examination, and such proceedings as the laws of nations and of 
the United States warranted and required." 

In the intercourse and transactions between nations, it has been found 
indispensable that due faith and credit should be given by each to the 
official acts of the public functionaries of others. Hence the sentences 
of prize courts under the laws of nations, or admiralty, and exchequer or 
other revenue courts, under the municipal law, are considered as conclu- 
sive as to the proprietary interest in, and title to, the things in question ; 
nor can the same be examined into in the judicial tribunals of another 
country. Nor is this confined to judicial proceedings. The acts of other 
officers of a foreign nation, in the discharge of their ordinary duties, are 
entitled to the like respect. And the principle seems to be universally 
admitted, that, whenever power or jurisdiction is delegated to any public 
officer or tribunal, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, 
the acts done in the exercise of that discretion, and within the authority 
conferred, are binding as to the subject matter; and this is true, whether 
the officer or tribunal be legislative, executive, judicial, or special. — 
Wheaton's Elements of International Law, page 121 ; 6th Peters, 
page 729. 

Were this otherwise, all confidence and comity would cease to exist 
among nations; and that code of international law, which now contri- 



38 Doc. No. 185. 

butes so much to the peace, prospei-ity, and harmony of the world, would 
no longer regulate and control the conduct of nations. Besides, in this 
case, were the Government of the United States to permit itself to go be- 
hind the papers of the schooner Amistad, it would place itself in the em- 
barrassing condition of judging upon the Spanish laws, their force, effect, 
and their application to the case under consideration. 

This embarrassment and inconvenience ought not to be incurred. Nor 
is it believed a foreign nation would look with composure upon such a 
proceeding, where the interests of its own subjects or citizens were deeply 
concerned. In addition to this, the United States would necessarily place 
itself in the position of judging and deciding upon the meaning and effect 
of a treaty between Spain and Great Britain, to which the United States 
is not a party. It is true, by the treaty between Great Britain and Spain, 
the slave trade is prohibited to the subjects of each; but the parties to 
this treaty or agreement are the proper judges of any infraction of it, and 
they have created special tribunals to decide questions arising under the 
treaty ; nor does it belong to any other nation to adjudicate upon it, or to 
enforce it. As, then, this vessel cleared out from one Spanish port to 
another Spanish port, with papers regularly authenticated by the proper 
officers at Havana, evidencing that these negroes were slaves, and that 
the destination of the vessel was to another Spanish port, I cannot , see 
any legal principle upon which the Government of the United Slates 
would be authorized to go into an investigation for the purpose of ascer- 
taining whether the facts stated in those papers by the Spanish officers 
are true or not. Suppose, however, that the evidence contained in these 
papers should not be entitled to all the effect I have given it ; would that 
change or alter the course which should be pursued by the Government ? 
I think it would not ; and a reference to the principles of international 
law, as approved and sanctioned by our judicial tribunals, will clearly 
show it. In the case of the Antelope, (10 Wheaton, page 66,) this subject 
was fully examined, and the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United 
States establishes the following points: 

1. That, however unjust and unnatural the slave trade may be, it is 
not contrary to the law of nations. 

2. That, having been sanctioned by the usage and consent of almost 
all civilized nations, it could not be pronounced illegal, except so far as 
each nation may have made it so by its own acts or laws ; and these 
Could only operate upon itself, its own subjects or citizens ; and, of course, 
the trade would remain lawful to those whose Government had not for- 
bidden it. 

3. That the right of bringing in and adjudicating upon the case of a 
vessel charged with being engaged in the slave trade, even where the 
vessel belongs to a nation which has prohibited the trade, cannot exist. 
The courts of no country execute the penal laws of another, and the 
course of the American Government on the subject of visitation and 
search would decide any case in which that right had been exercised by 
an American cruiser, on the vessel of a foreign nation not violating our 
municipal laws, against the captors. 

It follows, that a foreign vessel engaged in the African slave trade, 
captured on the high seas in time of peace, by an American cruiser, and 
brought in for adjudication, would be restored. 

The opinions here expressed go far beyond the present case; they 
embrace cases where the negroes never have been within the territorial 
limits of the nation of which the claimant is a citizen. In this case, the 



Doc. No. 185. 39 

negroes were in the island of Cuba, a portion of the dominions of Spain; 
they were there recognised and treated as property by the Spanish au- 
thorities of the island. And after this, in their transmission from the port 
of Havana to another Spanish port, the occurrence took place which has 
given rise to this investigation. This vessel was not engaged in the slave 
trade ; she was employed lawfully in removing these negroes, as slaves, 
from one part of the Spanish dominions to another, precisely in the same 
way that slaves are removed, by sea, from one slave State to another in 
our own country. I consider the facts as stated, so far as this Govern- 
ment is concerned, as establishing a right of ownership to the negroes in 
question, in the persons in whose behalf the minister of Spain has made 
a demand upon the Government of the United States. 

Under the statement of facts, another inquiry which presents itself, is, 
What power does the Government of the United States possess, or what 
jurisdiction has it for the purpose of trial and punishment, over the per- 
sons of these men of color, who are charged with having risen upon the 
captain and crew, and murdered the captain and part of the crew, and 
took the vessel under their own control? 

If these acts, according to the principles of international law, or under 
the acts of the Congress of the United States, constitute or amount to 
piracy, then jurisdiction to try and punish belongs to the United States. 

The question arises. Do these acts constitute piracy ? 

" Piracy is defined to be the offence of depredating on the seas, without 
being authorized by any sovereign State, or with commissions from dif- 
ferent sovereigns at war with each other." '' Pirates being the common 
enemies of all mankind, and all nations having an equal interest in their 
apprehension and punishment, they may be lawfully captured on the high 
seas by the armed vessels of any particular State, and brought within its 
territorial jurisdiction for trial by its tribunals." — Wheaton's Elements of 
International Law, page 113. 

Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, (vol. 1, page 183,) says, " Pi- 
racy is robbery, or a forcible depredation, on the high seas, without law- 
ful authority, and done animo furandi, and in the spirit and intention of 
universal hostility. It is the same offence at sea with robbery on land ; 
and all the writers on the law of nations, and on the maritime law of Eu- 
rope, agree in this definition of piracy. Pirates have been regarded by 
all civilized nations as the enemies of the human race, and the most 
atrocious violators of the universal law of society. They are everywhere 
pursued and punished with death ; and the severity ivith which the law 
has animadverted upon this crime arises from its enormity and danger, 
the cruelty that accompanies it, the necessity of checking it, the difficulty 
of detection, and the facility with which robberies may be committed 
upon pacific traders in the solitude of the ocean. Every nation has a 
right to attack and exterminate them, without any declaration of war ; for 
though pirates may form a loose and temporary association among them- 
selves, and re-establish, in some degree, those laws of justice which they 
have violated with the rest of the world, yet they are not considered as a 
national body, or entitled to the laws of war, as one of the community of 
nations. They acquire no rights by conquest, and the law of nations and 
the municipal law of every country authoiize the true owner to reclaim 
his property taken by pirates, wherever it can be found ; and they do not 
recognize any title to be derived from an act of piracy. The principle, 
that a piraliset latronibus capta dominium nonmutant is the received opin- 
ion of ancient civilians, and modern writers on general jurisprudence; 



40 Doc. No. 185. 

and the same doctrine was maintained in the English courts of common 
law prior to the great modern improvements made in the science of the 
law of nations." 

In the case of the United States against Smith, (5 Wheaton, page 153,) 
the Supreme Court of the United States clearly recognise the foregoing 
description and definitions of piracy, and state that the defendant in that 
case, and his associates^ were^ at the time of committing the offence^ free- 
hooters upon the sea, not under the acknowledged authority, or deriving 
protection from, the flag or commission of any Government ; and there- 
fore, the defendant was subject to trial within the United States. From 
this language it may elearly be inferred that, had the vessel been sailing 
under the authority and flag of any particular Government, the defendant 
would not have been subject to trial in any court of the United States ; 
but that his case would have been exclusively within the jurisdiction of 
the tribunals of that State under whose commission, authority, or flag he 
was navigating his vessel. And in the case of the United States vs. 
Palmer, (3 Wheaton, page 610,) the Supreme Court of the United States 
expressly decided that the crime of robbery committed by a person on 
the high seas, on board of a ship belonging exclusively to subjects of a 
foreign State, on persons in a vessel belonging exclusively to subjects of 
a foreign State, was not piracy under the act of Congress approved on 
the 30th of April, 1790, and was not punishable in the courts of the 
United States. In the case now before me, the vessel is a Spanish ves- 
sel,. belonging exclusively to Spaniards, navigated by Spaniards, and sail- 
ing under Spanish papers and flag, from one Spanish port to another. It 
therefore follows, unquestionably, that any offence committed on board is 
cognizable before the Spanish tribunals, and not elsewhere. 

These two points being disposed of — 1st. That the Government of the 
United States is to consider these negroes as the property of the individu- 
als in whose behalf the Spanish minister has put up a claim; 2d. That 
the United States cannot proceed against them criminally; — the only re- 
maining inquiry is, what is to be done with the vessel and cargo ? the ne- 
groes being a part of the latter. 

A case like the present is not embraced by any of the legal provis- 
ions contained in the different acts of Congress, so as to justify this Gov- 
ernment, in any of its departments, to act upon it for the purpose of trans- 
porting these negroes to Africa. In the construction of the different acts 
of Congress in relation to the " slave trade," it is to be observed that the 
statutes operate only where our municipal jurisdiction might be applied, 
consistently with the general theory of international law, to the persons 
of our citizens or to foreigners on board of American vessels, — 1 Kent's 
Commentaries, page 182; 3 Wheaton, page 610, 

And, it may be added, that those acts would operate, of course, upon all 
persons who might violate them within the limits of the United States. 
But the claimants of these negroes have violated none of our laws. They 
are within the limits of the United States, to be sure, with their own con- 
sent ; but that consent resulted from, and was produced by, circumstances 
so imperious and overruling in their nature, as to have left them no choice. 
They have not come within our territories with the view or intention of 
violating the laws of the United States; nor had they, before their arrival 
within the waters of the United States, been guilty of an infraction of 
them. They have not introduced these negroes into the United States 
for the purpose of sale, or holding them in servitude within the United 
States ; so far from any illegal intention or design to violate the laws of 



Doc. No. 185. 41 

the United States being established upon the clain/iants, the case clearly 
shows that not only no violation of our laws has been committed, but no 
such violation was in contemplation. It therefore appears to me that 
this subject must be disposed of upon principles of international law and 
the existing treaties between Spain and the United States. 

It would scarcely be doubted that, under the law of nations, property 
rescued from pirates or robbers by a vessel belonging to a friendly Power, 
and brought into a port of that friendly Power, would be restored to the 
rightful owners; and this, without any treaty stipulation. 

The 9th article of the treaty between Spain and the United States, 
dated 27th October, 1795, ( which has been continued in force by a sub. 
sequent treaty,) is as follows : " All ships and merchandise of what nature 
soever, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or rob= 
bers on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state, and 
shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of that port, in order to 
be taken care of, and restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due 
and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof." 

This makes the case much stronger in favor of the Spanish claimants., 
There can be no difference, in reason, whether the vessel be captured on 
the high seas, or within our own waters or ports ; because, if captured 
on the high seas, they are to be brought into port and delivered into the 
custody of the appropriate public officers ; and if captured after having 
already come into a port, they should be treated in like manner. It there, 
fore seems to me that this case is clearly within the spirit and meaning 
of the 9th article, and that the vessel and cargo should be restored entire, 
so far as practicable. 

My opinion further is, that the proper mode of executing this article of 
the treaty, in the present case, would be for the President of the United 
States to issue his order, directed to the marshal in whose custody the 
vessel and cargo are, to deliver the same to such persons as may be 
designated by the Spanish minister to receive them. The reasons which 
operate in favor of a delivery to the order of the Spanish minister are— 

1. The owners of the vessel and cargo are not all in this country, 
and, of course, a delivery cannot be made to them. 

2. This has become a subject of discussion between the two Govern- 
rnents, and, in such a case, the restoration should be made to that agent of 
the Government who is authorized to make, and through whom the de- 
mand is made. 

3. These negroes are charged with an infraction of the Spanish laws ; 
therefore, it proper that they should be surrendei'ed to the public func. 
tionaries of that Government, that if the lavvs of Spain have been violat- 
ed, they may not escape punishment, 

4. These negroes deny that they are slaves ; if they should be deliv- 
ered to the claimants, no opportunity may be afforded for the assertion of 
their right to freedom. For these reasons, it seems to me that a delivery 
to the Spanish minister is the only safe course for this Government tppur= 
sue. 

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your humble servant.* 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secretary of State. 

* This remarkable letter has no signature, nor any date but 1839. But it is righ^ 
that the world should know that the Attorney General of the United States of Ameri- 
ca, who gave this opinion to the President, after giving to the subject '» all the consider- 

6 



42 Doc No. 185. 

Messrs. Staples and Sedgwick to the President of the United States. 

New Yokk, September 13, 1839. 

Sir: We have been engaged as counsel of the Afi leans brought in by 
the Spanish vessel, the Amistad ; and, in that capacity, take the liberty 
of addressing you this letter. 

The?e Africans are now under indictment in the circuit court of the 
second circuit on a charge of piracy, and their defence to this accusation 
must be established before that tribunal. But we are given to understand, 
from authority not to be doubted, that a demand has already been made 
upon the Federal Government, by the Spanish minister, that these negroes 
be surrendered to the authorities of his country ; and it is on this accoun 
that we now address you. 

We are also informed that these slaves are claimed under the 9th ar- 
ticle of the treaty of 1795, between this country and Spain, by which al 1 
ships and merchandise rescued out cf the hands of pirates and robbers on 
the high seas are to be restored to the true proprietor, upon due and suf- 
ficient proof. 

We now apply to you, sir, for the purpose of requesting that no order 
may be made by the Executive until the facts necessary to authorize its 
interposition are established by the judicial authority in the ordinary course 
of justice. We submit that this is the true construction of the treaty; 
that it is not a mere matter of Executive discretion; but that, before the 
Government enforces the demand of the Spanish claimant, that demand 
must be substantiated in a court of justice. 

It appears to us manifest that the treaty could never have meant to have 
submitted conflicting rights of property to mere official discretion, but 
that it was intended to subject them to the same tribunals which, in all 
other cases, guard and maintain our civil rights. Reference to the 7th 
article, in our opinion, will confirm this position. 

It will be recollected that, if we adopt this as the true construction of 
the treaty, should any occasion ever arise when our citizens shall claim 
the benefit of this section, Spain would be at liberty to give it the same 
interpretation ; and that the rights of our citizens will be subjected to the 
control of subordinate ministerial agents, without any of those safeguards 
which courts of justice present for the establishment oftrulh and the main- 
tenance of rights. We submit, further, that it never could be intended 
that the Executive of the Union should be harassed by the investigation 
of claims of this nature, and yet, assuredly, if the construction be con- 
tended for be correct, such must be the result ; for, if he is to issue the 
order upon due and sufficient proof, the proof must be sufficient to hi& 
mind. 

We further submit that, in regard to the Executive, there are no rules 

of evidence nor course of proceeding established ; and that, in all such 

cases, unless the claimant be directed to the courts of justice, the conduct 

of the affair must, of necessity, be uncertain, vague, and not such as is 

alculated to inspire confidence in the public or the parties. We can find 

ation which its importance demandf?," was the Hon. Felix Grundy, from Tennessee, 
and now a Senator of lh« United States. What evidence this opinion furnishes of 
the fitness of the gentleman for the high office of Attorney-General, members of th& 
legal profession may determine. It is sufficient to say that it is contrary to the opinions 
of the most eminent jurists this country has produced, and it would seem that a 
luwyer who would venture on promulgating such doctrines was unfit to be even an. 
attorney of the most inconsiderable district in the United States. 



Doc. No. 185. 43 

nothing in the treaty to warrant the delivery of these individuals as of. 
fenders; and the Executive of the Union has never thought itself obliged, 
under the laws of nations, to accede to demands of this nature. 

These suggestions are of great force in this case, because we, with great 
confidence, assert, that neither according to the law of tliis, nor that of 
their ov/n country, can the pretended owners of these Africans establish 
any legal title to them as slaves. 

These negroes were, it is admitted, carried into Cuba, contrary to the 
provisions of tlie treaty between Spain and Great Britain of 1817, and of 
the orders made in conformity therewith ; orders which have been repeat- 
ed, at different times, to as late a date as the 4th November, 1838, by 
which the trade is expressly prohibited ; and if they had been taken oa 
board the slaver, they would have been unquestionably emancipated. 

They were bought by the present claimants, Messrs. Ruiz and Montes, 
either directly from the slaver, or under circumstances which must, be- 
yond doubt, have apprized them that they were illegally introduced into 
the Havana ; and on this state of faels we, with great respect, insist that 
the purchasers of Africans illegally introduced into the dependencies of a 
country which has prohibited the slave trade, and who make the purchase 
with knowledge of this fact, can acquire no right. We put the matter on 
the Spanish law; and we affirm that Messrs. Ruiz and Montes have no 
title, under that law, to these Africans. 

If this be so, then thes* negroes have only obeyed the dictates of self- 
defence. They have liberated themselves from illegal restraint, and it is 
superfluous to say that Messrs. Ruiz and Montes have no claim whatever 
under the treaty. 

It is this question, sir, fraught with the deepest interest, that we pray 
you to submit for adjudication to the tribunals of the land. It is this 
question that we pray may not be decided in the recesses of the cabinet, 
where these unfriended men can have no counsel and can produce no 
proof but in the halls of Justice, with the safeguards that she throws around 
the unfriended and oppressed. 

And, sir, if you should not be satisfied with the considerations here pre- 
sented, we then submit that we are contending for a right upon a con- 
struction of a treaty; that this point, at least, should be presented fo the 
courts of justice ; and, should you decide to grant an order surrendering 
these Africans, we beg that you will direct such notice of it to be given, 
as may enable us to test the question as we shall be advised, by habeas cor- 
pus or otherwise. 

We have only, sir, to add, that we have perfect confidence that you will 
decide in this matter with a single regard to (he interests of justice and 
the honor of the country, and that we are, with the greatest respect, your 
most obedient servants, 

SETH P. STAPLES. 
THEODORE SEDGWICK, Je. 

Martin Van Bitren, Esq., 

President of the United States. 



The Secretary of State to Mr. Butler. 

Department of State, 

Washington, October 24, 1839. 
Sir: The Spanish minister has applied to this departtnent for its inter- 
osition in procuring the release from arrest of Jose Ruiz and Pedro 



44 Doc. No. 185 

Montes, two Spanish subjects, arrested and imprisoned at the suit of cer- 
tain Africans. As this appears to be a civil suit before the ordinary local 
courts of law, the interference asked by the Spanish minister cannot, of 
course, be afforded ; but as the case obviously grows cut of the arrival of 
the Amistad, and the landing of the Africans on board, within our juris- 
diction, now under consideration, the President, thinking that your agency 
might be useful to Messrs. Ruiz and Montes, desires you to put yourself in 
communication with those gentlemen, and to offer them your advice (and 
your aid, if necessary) as to any measure which it may be proper for them 
to take to obtain their release, and any indemnity to which, under our laws, 
they may be entitled for their arrest and detention. 
I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 
B. F. Butler, Esq., 

AtVy U. S. for South. Dist. of Mew York. 



M. Bii'-le lo the Secret ly of Stale. 

United States District Attorney's Office, 

New York, October 28, 1839 
Sir : Enclosed I have the honor to hand you copies of letters this day 
addressed by me to Mr. Jose Ruiz, and to his attorney and counsel, Mr. 
Purroy, in compliance with the instructions contained in your letter of the 
24th instant. I need not, I hope, assure you that all the aid which it may 
Ipe in my power to render to Mr. Ruiz, and also to Mr. Montes, (who has 
been discharged from arrest,) should he need my services, will be promptly 
afforded. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

B. F. BUTLER, 

United States Attorney, 
Hon. John Forsyth, 

Secet ary of State of the United States. 



United States District Attorney's Office, 

New York, October 28, 1839. 
Sir: Enclosed is a letter, offering to Mr. Ruiz any advice and aid in 
my power in relation to his arrest and imprisonment in this city, written 
by me pursuant to instructions this day received from the Secretary of 
State of the United States. 

I transmit it to you, because I understand that you are counsel for Mr. 
Ruiz in the suit brought against him, and I will thank you to cause it to 
be conveyed to him without delay. I am instructed to make the like 
offer in respect to Mr. Montes ; but deem it unrjecessary to do so, be- 
cause I perceive by the public prints, that he has been discharged from 
arrest. As you are also counsel for Mr. Montes, I will be greatly obliged 
to you, should I be mistaken in this impression, and should he need my 
services, for information to that effect. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

B. F. BUTLER, 
United States Attorney^ 
John B. Purroy, Esq., 

Counsel tor at Law, Mew York, 



Doc. No. 185. 45 

United States District Attorney's Office, 

New York, Odoher 28, 1839. 
Sir : By a communication this day received by me from the Secretary 
of State of the United States, I am informed that the Spanish minister 
has applied to the Department of State for its interposition in the matter 
of your imprisonment in this city. As the suit against you appears to 
be one of a civil nature, before the local courts of law, the Government 
of the United States cannot interfere in the manner requested ; but I 
have been insiructed by the Secretary to put myself in communication 
vi'ith you, and to offer you any advice and aid which may be in my 
power, and which may be necessary and proper to obtain your release, 
and any indemnity to which, under our laws, you may be entitled for 
your arrest and detention. This offer I have now the honor to make ; 
and whenever I may be called on in your behalf, I will give such at- 
tention as may be in my power to your interests. 
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

B. F. BUTLER, 

United States Attoney. 
Mr, Jose Ruiz, Mew Yok. 



Acting Secretary of State to Mr. Butler. 

Department of State, 
Washington, November 9, 1839. 
Sir : J transmit to you, by direction of the President, the translation of 
another note from the Spanish minister, respecting the arrest of Ruiz 
and Montes. It is the desire of the President that you should inform this 
department of the state of the proceedings in that case; and state whether 
there is, within your knowledge, any thing that the government can fur- 
ther do on this branch of the subject. 

I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant, 

A. VAIL, 
Acting Secretary of State, 
B. F. Butler, Esq., Attorney U.S., 

for Southern Dist. of JVew York. 

Enclosue — Note of the Chevalier de Argaiz, of the 5th November, 1839. 
Mr. Butler to Mr. Vail. 

U. S. District Attorney's Office, 

New York, November 18, 1839. 

Sir: In reply to the inquiries made in your letter on the 9th instant, 
I have the honor to make the following statement : 

On the day after the interviev/ with the Spanish minister, referred to 
in his letter of the 5th of November, I visited Mr. Ruiz at the jail, and 
obtained from him all the material facts of his case. Immediately after 
this, I had a conference with Mr. Purroy, the counsel of Mr. Ruiz, by 
whom the application for the discharge of the defendants had been made 
and argued before the State courts, and received from him a copy of the 
papers, and a full statement of his proceedings. 

In my subsequent reflections on the subject, and upon connecting the 
statements of Mr. Purroy with some facts stated to me by Mr. Ruiz, I 
thought it advisable to inquire into the laws of Cuba, in relation to sev. 
era) particulars which had not been adverted to in the papers and argu- 



46 l>(yQ. No. 185. 

ment, and so informed Mr. Purroy. Fortunately, we obtained theassis. 
tance of a very competent Spanish lawyer, recently from Havana, where 
he had been for many years a judge, from whom we received the needed 
information. It did not, however, enable us to see any new ground for 
again asking for the discharge of the defendant ; and it was therefore 
decided by Mr. Purroy and myself that the only course to be pursued, 
whether Mr. Ruiz gave bail to the actions, or remained in prison, was 
to require the plaintiffs to file their declarations, and to proceed to trial 
at the earliest possible day. This we shall accordingly do ; and if the 
facts communicated to me by Ruiz shall be proved, (as I think they may 
be,) it is not at all probable that the plaintiffs can succeed in obtaining a 
verdict ; indeed I think it exceedingly doubtful whether it is in the power 
of the plaintiffs to produce sufficient evidence on their part to put the de- 
fendants to the necessity of a defence. 

Under these circumstances, and as the bail which would be required in 
the three suits pending against Mr, Ruiz would not exceed $1,000, and 
as I cannot think it probable that any further suits would be instituted 
against him, I have thought that he had better give the bail, which could 
be easily procured, and, with the concurrence of Mr. Purroy, have so 
advised. Mr. Ruiz, however, for various reasons, and, among others 
under the hope that his deliverance might be effected through the inter-* 
vention of the Government of the United States on the application of the 
Spanish minister, has hitherto declined giving bail, and is therefore yet 
in prison. 

In regard to the question, whether the Government can do any thing 
fartber on this branch of the subject, I can only reply, that, after a very 
careful consideration of the facts, and of the views submitted to me by the 
Spanish minister, I cannot see that any further s'ep can at present be taken 
by the United States for the benefit of Mr. Ruiz. It does not appear to me 
that any question has yet arisen under the treaty with Spain ; because, al- 
though it is an admitted general principle, that neither the courts of this 
State, nor those of the United States, can take jurisdiction of criminal ofTen- 
ces committed by foreigners within the territory of a foreign State, yet it is 
equally settled in this country, that our courts will take cognizance of civil 
actions between foreigners transiently within our jurisdiction, founded 
upon contracts or other transactions made or had in a foreign State, 
provided by the laws of such foreign State, the like civil action could 
have been brought in the courts of that State. It was precisely to 
this last point that I called the attention of the Spanish lawyer, whom 
we consulted ; and, as he informed me that it was competent for a 
person, having a capacity to sue, in the courts of Cuba, to maintain a civil 
action for assault and false imprisonment, I could not doubt the capacity of 
our courts to entertain the like suit. Whether the personal relations be. 
tween the parlies to the present actions are such as to prevent the main- 
taining of any such suit, is a question which involves the whole merits of 
the controversy, and which the judges have already decided cannot be set- 
tled in limine. 

Should any question bearing on this point, or on any other involved in 
the case, arise upon the trial, under the treaty with Spain, it will, of course, 
be distinctly presented by me ; and, if the decision be adverse, I shall ad- 
vise the proper measures to carry it to the higher tribunals, and ultimately, 
if needful, to the Supreme Court of the United States, under the 25th sec 
tion of the iudiciary act of 1789. 

I am, sir, &c., B. F. BUTLER, 

To Aaron Vail, Esq., United States Attorney. 

Acting Secretary of State United States, Washington City. 



Doc. No 185. 47 

Memorandum from the Department of State to the Secretary of the J^avy^ 

Department of State, January 2, 1840. 

The vessel destined to convey the negroes of the Amistad to Cuba, to be 
ordered to anchur off the port of New Haven, Connecticut, as early as the 
10th of January next, and be in readiness to receive said negroes frooi the 
marshal of the United States, and proceed with them to Havana, under 
instructions to be hereafter transmitted. 

Lieutenants Gedney and Meade to be ordered to hold themselves in rea- 
diness to proceed in the same vessel, for the purpose of affording their tes- 
timony in any proceedings that may be ordered by the authorities of Cuba 
in the matter. 

Thess orders should be given with special instructions that they are not 
to be communicated to any one. 



The Secretary of the Jfavy to the Secretary of State. 

Navy Department, Jawwa/y 2, 1840, 
Sir: I have the honor to state that, in pursuance of the memorandum 
sent by you to this department, the United States schooner Grampus, Lieu- 
tenant Commanding John S. Paine, has been ordered to proceed to the bay 
of New Haven, to receive the negroes captured in the Amistad. The 
Grampus will probably be at the point designated a day or two before the 
10th instant, and will there await her final instructions in regard to the 
negi'oes,* 

Lieutenants Gedney and Meade have been ordered to take passage in the 
Grampus for Havana, to give testimony there respecting the capture of the 
Amistad. 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

J. K. PAULDING. 
Hon. John Forsyth, Secretary of State. 



The Secretary of State to the Secretary of the JVavy. 

Department of State, 
Washington, January 7, 1840. 
Sir : I have received your letter of the 3d instant, stating that, agreea- 
bly to a memorandum furnished you from this department, orders had 
been given to Lieutenant Commanding John S. Paine, of the schooner 
Grampus, to proceed off the port of New Haven, and be in readiness to 
receive on board his vessel the negroes of the Spanish schooner Amistad, 
for the purpose of conveying them to Cuba, in the event of their delivery 
being adjudged by the circuit court, before whom the case is pending. 
It will be expedient for Lieutenant Paine, on his arrival off New Haven, 
to place himself in communication with Mr. W. S. Holabird, the attorney 

* When the Grampus appeared in Longj Island Sound last January, and anchored 
off the port of New Haven, it was generally supposed that it was in contemplation of 
government to remove the Africans to their native land in pursuance of the righteoua 
decree of the District Judge. The friends of the Africans expressed fears that it was 
the design of government to send them to Cuba, but scarcely a person credited such 
an intimation. Those fears, it will be seen, were but too true. The knowldge of 
the facts, will, it is believed, fill the breasts of true hearted Americans with indigna- 
tion at the conduct of their government, while it exposes_ them to the scorn of the 
civilised world. 



48 Doe. No. 185. 

of the United States for the district of Connecticut, to whom correspond- 
ing instructions have been given, in order that he may receive the earliest 
information of the decision of the court, and advise with him as to the 
mode of carrying it into effect. I enclose an order from the President to 
the marshal of the district, directing him to place the negroes at the dispo- 
sition of Lieutenant Paine, who, on being informed of the decision of the 
court, will serve it upon the marshal. Lieutenant Paine will likewise 
receive from the district attorney an authenticated copy of the records, 
documents, and evidence in the case, which he will convey to Cuba, to 
be used by the authorities of the island in any proceedings which they may 
institute in relation to it. On his arrival at Havana, he will give notice 
of it to the consul, with the enclosed letter, explanatory of the object of 
his visit ; and will, in every respect, conform with such suggestions as he 
may receive from him with regard to the delivery of the negroes and 
papers to the authorities of the island. In a letter addressed by this de- 
partment to the Spanish minister, his interference with the authorities of 
Cuba has been requested, in order that such testimony as it may be de- 
sirable to obtKin from Lieutenants Gedney and Meade be taken as speedily 
as possible. 

It is hoped, therefore, that those officers will be detained but a short 
time at Havana, and that they may return in the Grampus, if it shall suit 
the convenience of the Navy Department to afford them a passage home 
in that vessel, 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

JOHN FORSYTH. 

Hon. James K. Paulding, 

Secretary of the Jfavy. 



The marshal of the United States for the district of Connecticut will 
deliver over to Lieutenant John S. Paine, of the United States navy, and 
aid in conveying on board the schooner Grampus, under his command, 
all the negroes, late of the Spanish schooner A.mistad, in his custody, 
under process now pending before the circuit court of the United States 
for the district of Connecticut.* For so doing, this order will be his 
warrant. 

Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this 7th day of Jan- 
uary, A. D. 1840. 

M. VAN BUREN. 

By the President ; 

John Forsyth, Secretary of State. 

* Circuit Court— instead of District Court— see note p. 35. This error shows ex- 
traordinary haste, to say the least, and had well nigh defeated the intentions of gov- 
ernment in dispatching the U. S. Schooner Grampus to be ready to receive the Af- 
ricans if the decision of the District Judge had been as was hoped and expected. 
It may be said in this instance as was remarked by a quaker lady to the claimant 
of a fugitive slave who was baffled in an attempt to remove his victim from a free 
State into bondage—" Thy prey hath escaped thee !" The good providence of Al- 
mighty God has hitherto protected these unfortunate Africans. Prayer is daily as- 
cending on their behalf. A strong and anxious sympathy is felt in the community, 
and it will not be the fault of those who have expended much time and money in 
their defence, or of the eminent counsel, who have been and will be employed, if 
the Africans shalibe given up tg the tender mercies gf the Spaniards. 



