JYo. 1, 



AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 



AMERICAN SLAVERY 



[The apologists of Southern slavery are accustomed to brand every 
picture of slavery and its fruits as exaggeration or calumny. — The 
facts stated in these sheets are capable of satisfactory and legal 
proof. In cases where, from personal considerations, the names 
of persons or places are suppressed, the circumstances and au- 
thority on which they rest will be fully made known, on appli- 
cation at the office of the Massachusetts Anti- Slavery Society, 
No. 46 Washington Street, Boston.] 



AGED SLAVES. 



No one can examine the subject of slavery, without 
being often led to reflect on the probable sufferings of 
aged slaves. If it be unwise for infirm parents to become 
entirely dependent on the generosity of their own chil- 
dren, what can we reasonably expect of human nature, 
intrusted with despotic power over a poor, despised slave, 
too feeble to labor, and too old to bring any thing in the 
market ? Will money or care be expended on the worn 
out human machine, when it can no longer be kept in 
such repair as to prove profitable to the owners? An 
ordinary knowledge of human nature, and the most 
authentic accounts of slavery, alike prove that slaves 
generally have little to rely upon, when they cease to 
administer to the luxury or convenience of their masters. 

The following narrative is from an excellent lady in 
Portland, a member of the Society of Friends. 

" The aged slave to whom you refer, I saw when I was 
in St. Augustine. She was in an old building by the 
1 



3 



res. £57% ^3 «o, *\ 

2 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 

water's side, as bleak a spot as there was in the place ; 
and the air had free ingress through the broken window, 
She had not a single article of clothing, except an old 
frock coat, of thin cloth, which some gentleman had 
given her. It was January : and though the climate 
there is comparatively mjld, yet we could not dispense 
with a fire in our room. Her bed (which was but an 
apology for one) was so filthy, that it required some reso- 
lution to approach it. She used to mourn because she 
could not keep things more tidy. She would say, ' Missa, 
the dirt makes me sick; but I can't help it.' 

" One half of her body was entirely palsied. She 
could not help herself in the least, or even move without 
assistance. She was wholly dependent on the other 
slaves; and they were so occupied, they seldom found 
time to attend to her. She said she often went all day 
without food. When I spoke to her mistress about her, 
she replied, ' I can't do every thing. I told the servants 
to see to her, and I thought they did. Judy has been my 
best servant ; she always kept the kitchen so neat/ I 
thought to myself that her faithfulness met but a poor 
reward. y 

" One night, it being colder than usual, I went t 
carry Judy an extra covering. It was nearly twelve 
o'clock ; and what was my surprise to see the poor 
creature sitting on the block she had occupied all day, 
shivering, and in great pain ! As soon as she saw me, 
she exclaimed, ' Oh, missa, I so glad you come ! They 
have all gone and forgot me, and I thought I should have 
to sit here all night.' 

" I went and woke one of the slaves to assist me. She 
was probably fatigued, and felt rather cross at being dis- 
turbed ; for she seized Judy roughly by the arm, and 
dragged her to the bed, saying, ' It is a pity she wouldn't 
die ! ' 

"I shall never forget that night, or the poor creature's 
reply : ' Every day I pray that it may be God's will to 
take me.' 

"When we were about leaving St. Augustine, Judy 
said, 'And won't you never come again? What shall I 
do when you are gone 1 ' 

" My aunt tried to console her, by telling her she had 
interested friends in her behalf, and had left some money 



OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 3 

with them to be appropriated to her use. But poor Judy 
could not be comforted. I have often wished I could 
hear from her; but I suppose she is, ere this, released 
from all her troubles." 

"P. S. If any one doubts these facts, my aunt, as well 
as myself, will vouch for their authenticity. One of our 
neighbors, who resided some time at the South, related 
to me the following incident, last evening. If it should 
be called in question, he is willing to give his name, 

" Mr. Ezekiel Dawes, a respectable merchant in Rich- 
mond, gave his female slave permission to make a wed- 
ding, and invite her friends. He neglected to see that a 
white person was present, as the laws of Virginia require ; 
and when all were assembled, and were enjoying a little 
innocent merriment, the police officers rushed in, seized 
the whole company, and thrust them promiscuously into 
the cage.* In the morning, they were all taken out, and 
received a certain number of lashes. The owner of the 
bride endeavored, by paying a fine, to save her from the 
whipping; but he could not," 



SLAVES NOT PROTECTED BY THE LAWS. 

Whoever has read southern law books, or has any 
means of becoming well acquainted with the administra- 
tion of what is called justice in slave-holding States, will 
become convinced that slaves have no real efficient pro- 
jection from the laws. 

Not long ago, a young female slave, about eleven years 
old, belonging to Miss L.t of Charleston, South Carolina, 

* The cage, is a prison with strong gratings, prepared for the re- 
ception of any slave taken up in the night time. The law requiring 
at least one white person to be present at all assemblies of colored 
people, is a precaution against insurrections. Such laws can only 
be made necessary by an unnatural system, which unavoidably 
arrays the interests and prejudices of one portion of the community 
against the other. 

t Her name k at the Anti-Slavery Office, No, 46 Washington 
Street, Boston. 



4 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 

was whipped to death. The report was soon spread in 
the neighborhood ; and Mr. Webb and Mr. Ladson, gen- 
tlemen of undoubted integrity and humanity, (though 
brought up to think slavery no sin,) resolved to inquire 
into the circumstances. They waited upon Miss L., who 
is a highly accomplished woman, belonging to a literary 
and distinguished family : but they found her exceedingly 
reluctant to allow any investigation. The gentlemen, 
however, insisted upon it, notwithstanding the lady 
evidently regarded it as an impertinent interference. 

The body of the unfortunate child was dug up and 
examined ; and marks of violence were discovered, which 
left no doubt of the truth of the report. Whether Miss 
L. authorized such severe whipping is unknown ; for the 
honor of humanity it is to be hoped that she did not. 
But admitting every possible palliation for the lady, what 
do you think of a system, which places children in the 
power of brutal overseers? If the father and mother of 
that little murdered slave knew their child was killed by 
violence — nay, if they witnessed it with their own eyes — 
they could not bring an action against the murderers, or 
even be allowed to testify to what they saw. What do 
you think of laws like these in a free republic ? 

The southern lady, (herself a slave-owner,) who told 
the above anecdote, added, " The overseer ran away, 
when he heard the body of the child had been examined; 
and it was lucky he did ; for if he had remained there, 
he would have had a good sum of money to pay ! " 



THE INFLUENCE OF SLAVERY WITH REGARD TO 
MORAL PURITY. 

A prominent feature in the system of slavery is the 
bluntness of moral feelings, and the dimness of moral 
perception inevitably induced by it. Even conscientious 
men and women often find it difficult, and apparently 
impossible, to apply to this subject the most universal 
rules of justice, and the most common maxims of human- 
ity. This great evil originates in a fixed habit of no* 



OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 5 

regarding the colored race as brethren and sisters of the 
human family. Our knowledge of the- Africans is coeval 
with the practise of enslaving them ; and slavery, so long 
as it exists, must be supported by laws and customs that 
recognize human beings as articles of property ; the un- 
avoidable consequence is, that slaves are universally 
considered by their owners as mere animals, or pieces of 
machinery. 

The moral influence produced by such a state of things, 
was strikingly exemplified in a conversation that took 
place at the house of a Boston lady, intimately known to 
the writer. Miss G.* of South Carolina, had been in- 
vited to meet several ladies at the house referred to. The 
conversation turned on that never-failing topic, the diffi- 
culty of procuring good domestics. One of the guests 
remarked, " You are not troubled with these kind of diffi- 
culties at the South, Miss G. ; but I should think you 
would find it very unpleasant to be surrounded by so 
many negroes." " Not at all unpleasant," replied the 
southern lady, " I have always been accustomed to the 
blacks, and 1 really like them. When I was an infant, I 
was nursed by a black woman ; and I have always had 
them to attend upon me. I assure you that many of them 
are very far from being disagreeable in their personal 
appearance. I had a young slave, who was, without ex- 
ception, the prettiest creature I ever saw. She used to 
tend table for us, and almost always attracted the attention 
of visiters. A gentleman, who was often at our house, 
became dreadfully in love with her, and tried to make her 
accept handsome presents. 

" One day she came to me, and asked me to speak to 
that gentleman, and forbid his saying any thing more to 
her; for he troubled her very much, and she could not 
get rid of him, though she constantly refused to listen to 
him. I promised to speak to the gentleman about it ; and 
I did so, telling him that his attentions were very un- 
pleasant to my slave, and begged him to refrain from 
offering them in future. For a few weeks he desisted; 
but at the end of that time, he came to me and said, 
* Miss G., I must have that girl ! I cannot live without 

* Her name is at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 46 Washington 
Street, Boston. 

1 * 



6 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 

her!' He offered me a very high price. I pitied the poor 
fellow, and so I sold her to him." 

Miss G. was an unmarried woman, between twenty and 
thirty years old. She would have considered herself in- 
sulted, if any one had doubted her modesty and sense of 
propriety. Yet she told this story with perfect uncon- 
sciousness that there was any thing disgusting or shocking, 
or even wrong, in one woman's trafficking away another, 
under such circumstances! That such a thing could be 
done in a free and Christian community, is sufficiently 
strange ; but that it could be told of without the least 
shame, or the slightest consciousness that it ought to excite 
shame, is still more extraordinary. 

What a comment is this upon the moral sense of slave- 
holding communities ! 

Miss G. would have been horror-struck at the idea of 
selling into prostitution even the poorest and most de- 
graded white woman : but the colored race she had been 
always taught to consider as mere animals. 

Oh! who can count the unnumbered crimes, the mani- 
fold impurities, inevitably growing out of a system, 
which constantly seeks to protect itself, by regarding 
immortal beings as the brutes that perish! 



It was often practiced by rich persons in Gloucester, 
Massachusetts, owning slaves, to give away the infants 
newly born, among the humbler classes. My mother has 
often told me of one woman, well esteemed, who weaned 
her own child, on the reception of such a present, and 
reared with her own milk, and tended in her own arms, 
night and day, the little black bantling. The child was 
reared with affection, and dressed and fed as well as her 
own children, until she was five years old. At this time 
the woman had an unconquerable desire to purchase a 
brocade gown. Her husband was not able to give it to 
her, and she knew not how to earn it. Her husband was 
going to Virginia for corn, and she consented that he 
should take her black child, that she had nursed at her 
own breast, and sell her to strangers, in a far country, 
where she never could hope again to see her; and devoted 



OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



the proceeds of this adventure, to purchasing this super- 
fluous garment. She probably kept this dress for the 
Sabbath, to worship God in — with what inward adorn- 
ness of the mind, the reader must judge. 



Isabella was a young black girl, who came here a kw 
years since from a slave State, with her mistress and her 
infant. Passing from the packet, at New York, to the 
wharf, the plank slipped, and the girl, with the infant, 
fell into the water. She had sufficient presence of mind 
to hold the child above the waves until some one came to 
her assistance. She was much praised at the time ; and 
her mistress told me she owed the child to her care. Her 
mistress was brought up in New England, and, until her 
marriage, had appeared amiable ; but I often heard of 
scenes of noise and passion between the young mistress 
and her young slave — sometimes sufficiently loud to be 
heard below. The reason was, she had been a resident 
among slaves, and she was altered. Her child sickened 
and died ; the slave tended her with affection, and the 
day after the funeral, her mistress made her a present in 
money, as a reward. I went to pay the visit of condo- 
lence, and the mourning mother told me Isabella had 
offended her that morning, and that she obliged her to 
return this money-to punish her. I pondered the pro- 
ceeding at the time ; there seemed little tenderness, no 
justice, in thus wresting a present thus bestowed. I have 
since learned that slaves can hold no property, and this 
satisfied me. Isabella's mistress died, and after the 
funeral she came to me in distress, for fear her young 
master would oblige her to return to a slave country. She 
showed me her back, which was ploughed with the scars 
of the whip. On one occasion she told me her master 
ordered her 99 lashes for neglecting to shut the piano at 
night ! Her hands were cut and cross-cut with scars. 
She told me those were scars of wounds received from her 
master's dagger. She declared she would never return 
alive. If they forced her on board a vessel she would 
jump overboard and be drowned, rather than again be a 
slave. There was then no anti-slavery society. I con- 



3 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 

suited four or five lawyers whether her master could 
oblige her to return, she having been brought here. They 
all gave their opinion that she was his property, and our 
laws would give her up ; and that there was a fine of 
$500 on any one who should secrete her.* One lawyer 
was willing to retain her on a writ of habeas corpus. 
The late Mr. George Hunt, showed a laudable compassion 
for this poor young creature. He consulted his friend 
Mr. IS., and I believe he differed from the other lawyers, 
(among whom was a judge,) and thought she might be 
retained. '1 he colored people to whom I appealed, were 
timid, and refused to secrete her. While my sister and 
myself were busying ourselves to aid her, we heard she 
had made her escape to one of the British colonies. 
What became of her I have never learned. 



PHILLIS'S WEDDING. 

Phillis was bought when quite a child, (this was in the 
olden time, when we held slaves,) by a distant relative of 
mine, who lived on a farm. She was called rich in those 
days, had money at interest, and rode in her chair. The 
good woman never dreamed it was a crime to trade in 
flesh and blood, but thought, no doubt, she was well 
doing when she gave a hundred silver dollars for this 
black girl, in the hope that she should rear her up to 
assist in the care of her aged mother. Mrs. B. practised 
a thousand virtues ; and had she lived in these days, she 
would have been as zealous as Hannah More, or 
Mrs. Child, in the anti-slavery cause. There was no law 
existing against teaching blacks at that time, and there was 
no law needed ; for few had common school learning among 
the whites, especially in small towns and villages. Mrs. B. 
never thought of teaching Phillis to read; but she always 
called her to be present at prayers — made her go to meet- 
ing, and had her catechised. Phillis was clad in coarse 



* This opinion was founded on mistake. Any slave brought or 
sent to a free State by his master or mistress, can claim and take his 
or her freedom. 



OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 9 

raiment, but she was kept tidy and warm ; she labored 
in the barn, and in the garden, and the field, and she 
could be rarely spared from this arduous toil for domestic 
duties. Phillis was handsome, and she sang delightfully. 
A neighboring farmer waited on Mrs. B., and asked the 
hand of Phillis for his slave, who had declared an affec- 
tion for her. The consent being given, Phillis was allowed 
to receive an occasional visit from her lover, and in due 
time it was arranged by the farmer and Mrs. B., that, on 
such a day, the black pair should be married. It never 
occurred to Mrs. B. that there could be any appeal by her 
slave to her decision. Phillis was not consulted about 
receiving a lover, or a husband ; it was never supposed 
she was to have a preference, other than her mistress 
directed. On the day appointed for the wedding, Mrs. B. 
sent six miles for the minister to perform the service. 
She invited the farmer's family to be present, and provided 
for their entertainment. Phillis went quietly to toil in 
the field as usual, and as usual returned to dinner. 
After she had taken her frugal meal, alone, apart from 
the family, her kind mistress, for she was kind, told her 
she had better take her hoe and return to her work, and 
finish hoeing the field of potatoes. You need not be in a 
hurry to return, Phillis, I will send for you in time for you 
to put on your Sunday gown, and you must think, Phillis, 
said the pious matron, of the sacred vow you are going to 
take this evening. The slave obeyed — returned after a 
day passed in hard toil, when her mistress sent for her, 
and by her order, put on her Sunday gown, and shoes 
and stockings — never worn in mild weather by her except 
on the Sabbath. When the company were assembled in 
the parlor, and the minister was ready, the two slaves 
were called in and were married. The farmer had taken 
the liberty of bringing two other slaves with him. These 
with the young couple, were ordered into the kitchen as 
soon as the ceremony was over, and Phillis was ordered to 
proceed and arrange the supper for the guests. There 
was feasting, but it was in a solemn puritanical way. 
Phillis, her husband, and their two guests, had wherewith 
to eat, but it was given out to them — not to make merry 
with, but to sustain them. There were no presents, no 
congratulations, for the young couple. And this is a 
picture of slavery in its mildest form — in New England— 



10 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES 

among professing Christians — among those who willingly 
broke the chain from the neck of the slave, when taught 
it was a crime to hold him in bonds. 



The following story was told me by Miss L. of 
Philadelphia. She said she knew it to be true. Mrs. Hol- 
lingsworth lived in one of the smali slave-holding At- 
lantic States. She was to appearance sensitive and 
delicate, with a slender frame and feeble health. She 
had a husband and family — gave feasts — dashed at the 
Springs, &c. &c. Her cook was a black slave. One 
day that she had many guests, she was displeased with 
the preparation of one of the dishes on the table. After 
the dinner, she repaired to the kitchen, and rebuked the 
cook, who further exasperated her mistress by attempting 
to exculpate herself. The mistress in a fury seized the 
hearth shovel, and with the flat part of it beat the head 
of the poor slave until she killed her. There was no 
notice taken of this crime by government. 



These stories all go to prove the deleterious effect of 
slavery upon the slave-holder. A person must be in 
ignorance, or their minds and hearts must be perverted, 
before they would risk the danger, to their own character, 
of such forbidden possessions. 



THE EFFECT OF KINDNESS UPON THE BLACK MAN. 

Col. Middleton was not a v ery good specimen of the 
colored man. He was an old horse-breaker, who owned 
a house that he inhabited at the head of Belknap street. 
He was greatly respected by his own people, and his 
house was thronged with company. His morals were 
questioned — he was passionate, intemperate, and profane. 



OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. H 

We lived opposite to hirn for five years; during all this 
time my father treated this old negro with uniform kind- 
ness. He had a natural compassion for the ignorant and 
the oppressed, and I never knew him fail to lift his hat 
to this old neighbor, and audibly say, with much suavity, 
" How do you do, Col. Middleton," or " Good morning, 
colonel." My father would listen to the dissonant sounds 
that came from an old violin that the colonel played on 
every summer's evening, and was greatly amused at his 
power in subduing mettlesome colts. He would walk 
over and compliment the colonel on his skill, in his haz- 
ardous employment, and the colonel would, when thus 
praised, urge the untamed animal to some fearful caper, 
to show off his own bold daring. Our negroes, for many 
years, were allowed peaceably to celebrate the abolition 
of the slave trade ; but it became a frolic with the white 
boys, to deride them on this day, and finally they deter- 
mined to drive them, on these occasions, from the common. 
The colored people became greatly incensed by this 
mockery of their festival, and this infringement of their 
liberty, and a rumor reached us on one of these anniver- 
saries, that they were determined to resist the whites, and 
were going armed with this intention. About three 
o'clock in the afternoon, a shout of a beginning fray 
reached us. Soon, terrified children and women ran 
down Belknap street, pursued by white boys, who enjoyed 
their fright. The sound of battle approached ; clubs and 
brickbats were flying in all directions. At this crisis 
Col. Middleton opened his door, armed with a loaded 
musket, and in a loud voice, shreaked death to the first 
white who should approach. Hundreds of human beings, 
white and black, were pouring down the street, the blacks 
making but a feeble resistance, the odds in numbers and 
spirit being against them. Col. Middleton's voice could 
be heard above every other, urging his party to turn and 
resist to the last. His appearance was terrific, his musket 
was levelled, ready to sacrifice the first white man that 
came within its range. The colored party, shamed by 
his reproaches, and fired by his example, rallied, and 
made a short show of resistance. Capt. Winslow Lewis, 
and my father, determined to try and quell this tumult. 
Captain Lewis valiantly grappled with the ringleaders of 
the whites, and my father coolly surveyed the scene from 



12 AUTHENTIC ANECDOTES. 

his own door, and instantly determined what to do. He 
calmly approached Col. Middleton, who called to him to 
stop or he was a dead man ! I can see my father at this 
distance of time, and never can forget the feelings his 
family expressed, as they saw him still approach this in- 
furiated armed man. He put aside the musket, and with 
his countenance all serenity, said a few soothing words to 
the colonel, who burst into tears, put up his musket, and 
with great emotion, exclaimed loud enough for us to 
hear across the street, " I will do it for you, for you have 
always been kind to me," and retired into his own house, 
and shut his door upon the scene. 



A LEAF FROM MY JOURNAL. 

Dec. 21, 1833. We dined at Salem, a Moravian set- 
tlement, in Stokes county, North Carolina, and were 
waited upon at table by Adam, one of the innkeeper's 
slaves, an active, middle-aged man, of good appearance 
and ready conversation. He informed us that he was 
married, and had two children ; and that his wife having 
been the slave of one Freeze, a Moravian of that place, 
was sold by her master eleven weeks before, to a man 
living 150 miles to the south, for $250, and this too with- 
out any provocation on her part. 

This narrative, which was told in an artless manner, made a deep 
impression on my mind, and for miles I thought only of the wrongs 
done to this unoffending pair. Edith is now sold away from the hus- 
band and children, and carried to such a distance from them, as for- 
bids all hope that they will ever see each other more. Thus is a 
wife and mother bereaved, by arbitrary power, of every thing which 
a wife and mother holds most dear. Helpless woman ! hard is thy 
lot, and that inflicted by the hand of a professed disciple of Christ, 
in the 19th century. What mockery ! what daring presumption is it 
to call one's self by the name of the blessed Jesus, while living unre- 
pentant of this most flagrant outrage of his peculiar law — the Law 
of Love ! 



Published by Charles Whipple, Newburyport. 



