PROPERTY OFTHE 



^S-lv^. b 






\s, 




-.J^^^?/^zyy^^z>^^^^^J/^^^^tJ^y^^^^ 









/ / 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER, 

No. 40.] For SEPTEMBER, 1828. [No. 16. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



REVIEW OF THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT.— SPEECHES 
OF LORD SEAFORD, WITH CURSORY OBSERVATIONS UPON 
THEM. 

We promised, at the close of the last Reporter, to make some remarks 
on the positions contained in two speeches said to have been delivered 
in the House of Lords by Lord Seaford, on the 23d of June and the 
18th of July last. We proceed to fulfil our promise. 

The main object of the first of these speeches (which was a mere ab- 
stract of a great part of Mr. Wilmot Horton's pamphlet, " The West 
India question practically considered,") was to show that the abolition- 
ists had departed from the principles they formerly professed on the 
subject of the extinction of slavery. While the slave trade still existed, 
Mr. Fox, Mr. Brougham, and Mr. Wilberforce himself, his Lordship 
labours to prove, had deprecated any parliamentary interference with 
the colonial legislatures ; and were of opinion, that, the slave trade being 
abolished, the measures to be subsequently taken for improving the 
condition of the slaves should be left to the colonial assemblies. He 
also cites the Directors of the African Institution as looking forward to 
emancipation not by any convulsion,, nor even by the eiFect of positive 
law, but by a benign though insensible revolution in opinions and man- 
ners ; by the encouragement of individual manumissions ; and by a pro- 
gressive amelioration of the condition of the slaves, producing an in- 
crease of their numbers ; of which changes their masters would be the 
authors and the willing instruments, and by means of which slavery 
would silently and imperceptibly glide into freedom. 

If the point were at all material, it would be easy to show that Lord 
Seaford's representation of the early views of the abolitionists is altoge- 
ther incorrect. Those who deem the matter worth a moment's inquiry 
may consult a pamphlet published in 1823, for the Anti-Slavery Society, 
and entitled '^' A Review of the Arguments against parliamentary inter- 
ference on behalf of the Negro Slaves," in which is given a statement of 
the views, on that subject, of many of our most eminent statesmen, in- 

2o 



294 Review uj' the last Session of Parliament. 

eluding the names oi' Burke, Pitt, Dundas, Fox, Windham, Grenville, 
Grey, "banning, Ronailly, Wilberfbrce, &c. At the same time we have 
no solicitude to prove, that none of the earlier abolitionists entertained, 
at one time, sentiments which have subsequently been modified, or even 
reversed, by a change of circumstances, — by a more correct knowledge of 
facts, by improved lights and increasing experience, by the occurrence 
of unlooked-for opposition, and by the misconduct of those on whom 
they may have relied for aid and co-operation. To Lord Seaford, there- 
fore, we would say, as we have already said, in reply to Mr. Wilmot 
Horton, that if, at a former period, the abolitionists were led to place an 
undeserved and unwarranted confidence in the purposes of the colonists, 
respecting the improvement of the condition of iheir slaves, neither 
they, nor those who have entered into their labours, are to be blamed as 
wanting in good faith, because the experience of thirty or forty years 
lias satisfied them that tlieir confidence was misplaced, and that all hope 
of improvement, except from parliamentary interference, has become 
vain and illusory. 

But have Lord Seaford's own opinions undergone no revolution ? 
yas he forgot that, during his early parliamentary career, he was (as we 
shall hereafter show) the strenuous supporter of the slave trade, and the 
opponent of its abolhion ? And yet he now praises that very measure, 
and concurs in attributing to it the most salutary results. He then also 
(we allude to the year 1797) praised as loudly as he does now the con- 
dition of the slave population. We contend indeed that since that time 
it has undergone little or no improvement. But this is not the language 
of him and of his party. They maintain, with Mr. Dwarris, that a most 
signal and complete change for the better has taken place since 1797. 
And yet Lord Seaford's eulogy of the slave system in 1797 may be sub- 
stituted for that of 1828, without detracting from the force of the latter. 
The truth is there never has been, and never will be, in the grammar of 
slave-holders, any present tense for the oppressions of slavery.* When 
has any one of them, even Lord Seaford himself, been found to come 
forward, voluntarily, to denounce, instead of to palliate and defend, 
its evils ? 

We do not deny, indeed, that some excuse may be made for his 
Lordship. He is the proprietor of perhaps a thousand negroes. A large 
part of his income, many of his enjoyments, and probably even the ele- 
vation of his rank, are the fruits of their bondage, of their forced and 
uncompensated toil, of what we regard as their degradation and oppres- 
sion. Now it is perfectly natural tliat Lord Seaford should be anxious 
to persuade himself and others that there is nothing, in this dependence 
of his on the slavery of his fellow-creatures, which should wound his 
self-esteem, or abate the confidence of the public in his statements re- 
specting that condition of society ; and that he should endeavour, nay, 
that he should even succeed in the endeavour, to hide from his own view 
the deformity of the system with which he is go very closely and profit- 
tably connected. But though this be natural, and may serve as some 
apology both for his Lordship's views of the subject, and for his vitupe- 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporters, No. 18, p. 255, and No. 37, p. 250. 



Lord Seaford on the Vacillation of the Abolitionists. 295 

ration of those who dilFer frorft him, yet the public, whose eyes are 
open, are not unlikely, we apprehend, to form a somewhat different 
judgment from his Lordship, and to doubt whether his testimony or his 
advocacy, in favour of colonial bondage, derives the weight to which 
his private character might otherwise entitle it, from his being the pro- 
prietor of a thousand slaves. 

Lord Seaford professes to entertain views now which are exactly 
in unison with those which were formerly held by the abolitionists. 
To the abolitionists, however, at the time he alleges them to have held 
those views, he was stoutly opposed. Thirty years ago, it seems from 
his statement of their sentiments, they hoped that the effect of abolish- 
ing the slave trade, would be an improvement in the condition of the 
slaves, and a consequent increase of the native slave population. But, 
supposing that to have been the case, in what way has this hope been 
realized ? Instead of an increase of the population, the fact is, that 
there has been a progressive decrease ; nor does his Lordship attempt to 
shew that the intensity and continuity of their labours, which were 
always the great sources of that decrease, have been diminished, or that 
women do not still bear an equal share with the men, in the exhausting- 
labours of the field, under a tropical sun, and impelled by the lash of 
the driver. Even in Jamaica, where Lord Seaford's estates lie, and even 
if the new act of 1826 had not been disallowed, eleven hours and a half 
of such labour might, by law, be daily exacted from them, independently 
of a variety of other offices which cannot be dispensed with ; and to all 
this, during five months of the year, the toil of half the night might still 
be superadded. And what other results could be expected from such a 
system than those which have actually followed from it, namely, a frightful 
waste of human life; and, in the women, almost an extinction of the very 
powers of procreation.* Accordingly, while population, in every other 
part of the world, is advancing ; while the negro slaves in the United 
States, and the free negroes of Hayti ; nay, while the free negroes and 
people of colour in our West Indian possessions, including the maroons 
of Janiaica, are doubling their numbers in periods of from twenty to 
thirty-five years, the colonial slaves of Great Britain are annually 
diminishing. Among the 330,000 slaves of Jamaica there is a positive 
waste of human life, as compared either with the free blacks of Hayti, 
or the negro slaves of the United States, amounting to little short of 
10,000 human beings annually. And to what can we attribute this 
enormous waste of life, but to the system of oppression under which 
they groan ? 

We are perfectly ready to yield to Lord Seaford the fullest credit for 
an earnest desire to promote the comfort and well-being of his own 
slaves. And yet is it possible for us wholly to overlook the results of 
the colonial system, even as it is administered, under his directions, by 

* It has been affirmed, and apparently on sufficient data, though we ourselves 
have had no opportunity of verifying them, tliat, in Mexico, the annual proportion 
of births to the whole population, is one in eiglUeen, or five and a half per cent. ; 
while, in Jamaica, it is only one in I'orty-two, or two and a half per cent. Sup- 
posing this fact established, whrit stronger contirmation coukl be given of the 
curse which coloniiil si ivery entails on its victims ! 



296 Lord Seaford— Slave Population, SfC. 

stipendiary agents, at a distance of some thousand miles from his own 
immediate inspection and effectual control ? The following appear to 
be the returns of the slave population, on three estates belonging to his 
Lordship, between the month of March, 1820, and the month of March, 
1824: 

March, 1820. March, 1824. 
Shettlewood . . 155 148 

New Montpelier . 354 328 

Old Montpelier . 416 399 

925 875 

These returns exhibit a decrease, in four years, of fifty lives, or 
nearly five and a half per cent., being at the rate of a little more than 
one and a half per cent, per annum. If, during that period, his slaves 
had increased only in the proportion of the maroons, who reside in their 
immediate vicinity, that is to say, at the rate of two per cent, per annum, 
they would have grown to 1000. Instead of this they have decreased 
to 875, being a difference, in four years, of 125, or from a seventh to 
an eighth of the whole.* 

We select this instance as exhibiting a view of the operation of the 
colonial system under its most favourable aspect. We cannot doubt 
for one moment that the slaves of Lord Seaford enjoy a rate of comfort 
not below, but above, the average rate. Will even his Lordship then 
deem us unreasonable, if, in the contemplation of such results, we can 
no longer indulge those day-dreams of improvement and ultimate free- 
dom, wrought out by the humanity of the planters themselves, which, 
some thirty or forty years ago, may have floated in dim and distant vision 
before the minds of some abolitionists ? They have long since vanished, 
and it is with deep regret, and bitter disappointment, we are forced to 
declare, that we have no hope to see any remedy, for the evils we 
deplore, proceeding voluntarily from those to whose agency Lord 
S^eaford in 1828, as in 1797, would still persuade us to trust. For our 
own parts, we can now expect no such remedy, except from the direct 
interposition of Parliament, or from the more awful and uncontrollable 
interposition of the Divine power and providence. 

The abolitionists therefore, we maintain, may have been justified,thirty 
or forty years ago, in looking forward to the extinction of slavery in the 
West Indies, by means similar to those which had put an end to 
villenage in England, namely, a progressive amelioration in the con- 
dition of the slaves, the unforced fruit of the masters' humanity, 
leading to a progressive and rapid increase in their numbers, until 
slavery should glide insensibly into freedom ; and yet it might be 
perfectly inexcusable in them if they were now to indulge in any such 
expectation. 

And here let it be carefully noted, that there are some grand and 
essential distinctions between the existing slavery of our Colonies and 
the ancient villenage of England. It would be endless to recount 

* If there be any inaccuracy in these returns it will, of course, be capable of 
explanation. We can only take them as we find them. 



Lord Seaford — Manumissions, ^c. 297 

them all. We will at present advert only to one. Villenage had no 
bounties or protecting duties to support it : it therefore fell before the 
competition of free labour. If then Lord Seaford really desires, as he 
says, the termination of colonial slavery, " by the same means which 
formerly put an end to it in England," he vfill assist in removing those 
bounties and protections which prevent that happy change from taking 
place in the West Indies, which they would have equally prevented 
in England had they existed there. If he duly considers the subject, 
he cannot fail to attain to a full conviction that while, by such 
means, the value of the slaves is artificially raised, and the destruction 
of their lives is largely paid for in the high prices of slave grown sugar, 
imposed by those bounties and protecting duties on the people of 
England, there will not, and there cannot, be any rapid increase of the 
population, and no hope can be rationally indulged of effectual im- 
provement, and still less of an emancipation of which the masters 
will be the willing instruments or authors. 

We think it unnecessary to make any general remarks on the hope, 
said to have been cherished by the abolitionists, of a termination to 
slavery by encouragement to be given by masters to individual manu- 
missions, because the whole policy of the West Indians, from the com- 
mencement of this controversy to the present hour, has been to dis- 
courage manumissions, and indeed, in many cases, to obstruct, by fines 
and other expedients, the free exercise even of the master's benevolence. 
We shall here content ourselves for the present with referring again 
to Lord Seaford's own case. After examining with great care the 
returns, from Jamaica, of the manumissions effected there in six years, 
namely from 1821 to 1826, we find only one case recorded of voluntary 
manumission by his Lordship. It is the case of Catherine Dodd, (we 
believe) and her children ; the concubine and mulatto offspring, it may 
be presumed, of one of his overseers. But this, though a voluntary, is 
by no means a gratuitous act of manumission, on the part of his 
Lordship ; the price paid to him, for the mother and children, having 
been £700 currency or £500 sterling. 

Having now noticed all that appears to be material in the first speech 
of Lord Seaford, we come now to the second, as it is reported to have 
been delivered by his Lordship on the 18th of last July. 

1. His Lordship by no means agreed with Lord Calthorpe in be- 
lieving, that there existed an indisposition (amounting almost it would 
seem according to him to a physical disqualification) in the inhabitants 
of the slave colonies, to concur in the views of Parliament and of 
the country for ameliorating the condition of the slaves. He was 
satisfied, on the contrary, that there existed a sincere desire among 
them to ameliorate that condition, which desire was only checked by a 
due regard to the public tranquillity, and the security of property. If 
any other obstacles had arisen from intemperate feelings, on the part of 
the inhabitants of the colonies, the cause was to be traced, he said, 
to the intemperate feelings, and to the unmeasured and indiscreet 
conduct, of the advocates of emancipation, in short, of what is called 
the An ti- Slavery party. ' 



298 Lord Seaford — Indisposition of Colonists to Reform. 

Our reply to this statement, the truth of which we wholly deny, will 
be found in the following facts. 

In 1797, (we have already referred to this period,) Lord Seaford, 
then Mr. Ellis, moved an address to His Majesty, praying him to call 
on the different colonial legislatures, to adopt such measures as should 
" appear to them best calculated to obviate the causes which have 
hitherto impeded the natural increase of the negroes, in order gra- 
dually to diminish the necessity of the slave trade, and ultimately to 
lead to its complete termination ; and with a view to the same effects, 
to employ such means as might conduce to the moral and religious 
improvement of the negroes, and promote their happiness by securing 
to them, throughout all the British West India Islands, the certain, 
immediate, and active protection of the law." This motion was 
brought forward by the authority of the same West India Committee, of 
which we believe Lord Seaford is now, if he was not then, the 
Chairman. -It was supported by all the West Indians at that time in 
Parliament; and the language employed by its advocates was throughout 
of the most conciliatory and even complimentary description towards 
the colonists. Still, however, it would appear that the West India Com- 
mittee of that day so far distrusted the disposition of the colonies, 
that they thought it necessary to communicate confidentially with the 
different colonial authorities, in order to give them every possible 
assurance, that the true object of the motion was not what it might seem 
at first sight to be, (namely to terminate the slave trade, and really to 
improve the condition of the slaves,) but that it was actually designed 
to prevent the passing of an act of Parliament for the abolition of the 
slave trade, " an act," as they say in a formal resolution, which, " should 
it ever pass the British Parliament, would be fatal to the West Indies." 
To avert this dreadful issue, therefore, they further resolve, that 
^' for the joint purpose of opposing the plan of Mr. Wilberforce, and 
estabhshing the character of the West India body, it is essential that they 
(the colonial legislatures) should manifest their willingness to promote 
actively the cause of humanity, by such steps as shall be consistent 
with safety to the property of individuals, and the general interests 
of the Colonies." The communication of these resolutions of the West 
India Committee, was accompanied by a circular letter from Sir William 
Young, the Secretary of that body, declaring it to be indispensable 
" to take some steps in the colonies, by legislative provisions, touching 
the situation of the negroes in respect to society, and to promote a 
natural increase of their population ; and thus not only to stop, for 
the present, but to supersede the very pretensions, at a future period, 
to a measure of direct abolition of the slave trade by the mother 
country; a measure which would blast the root of all our settlements of 
property, change the foundation of every bequest, loan, and security ; 
turn every mortgage into an annuity on the lives of the negroes ; in- 
stitute a general system of foreclosure ; and, depreciating our estates, 
preclude all immediate resources, and ruin every interest." 

Our object in bringing forward these facts, is not to expose the 
gross disingenuousness of the conduct pursued by the West India 



Lord Seaford — Effect of his conciliatory Motion. 209 

party in the whole of this transaction ; that being sufficiently effected by 
the bare detail of it ; but to shew that though no pains were spared to con- 
ciliate the colonists, and to induce them to concur in taking " some steps" 
which should " manifest a willingness" to improve the condition of the 
slaves, yet nothing whatever was done by them to that effect ; nor was 
any such thing even seriously contemplated by them, until, in 1823, the 
Anti-Slavery Society called upon parliament and the public to interfere. 
"Then," says Lord Seafsrd, "when this question was brought before 
parliament — in the very first instance — before the colonial governments 
had been tried, and therefore, before they had given any grounds for dis- 
satisfaction or distrust," did the Anti-Slavery party call upon parliament 
to take the work of legislating for the colonies into its own hands. 

We certainly feel some surprise, that Lord Seaford should have made 
such a statement as this. No cause for dissatisfaction or distrust ! No 
trial made of the colonial governments ! And yet, after nearly thirty 
years had elapsed from the period of the above motion of Lord Seaford, 
not one of his own suggestions, though backed by the earnest recom- 
mendations of His Majesty, had been adopted by the West Indian le- 
gislatures, but on the contrary, all of them had been treated with utter 
disregard. Their neglect of the royal and parliamentary propositions of 
that day is undisputed. No public provision Avhatever, for die religious 
instruction of the slaves, or for the institution of marriage, had, in 1823, 
been adopted. Missionaries, instead of having been encouraged, had 
been treated, in most of the colonies, and in none more than in Jamaica, 
with contempt and even persecution. No Sunday had been given to 
the slaves. Nor had one effective measure hesw taken to secure to them 
the due, certain, and active protection of law. 

Fifteen years after this recommendation, (in 1811) what is the testi- 
mony of Sir William Young himself, the quondam Secretary of the 
West Indian Committee, in an official Report to the Secretary of State, 
"when he had become the Governor of Tobago ? It was this. " I think 
the slaves have, by law, no protection." " There appears to me a radical 
defect in the administration of justice throughout the West Indies, in 
whatever case the wrongs done to a slave are under consideration. 
Justice cannot, in truth, be administered, controlled, as it is, by a law of 
evidence which covers the most guilty European with impunity." — In 
1817, what is the report from the West Indies of some of the clergy? 
It is this, " If the negroes come to church, they must starve, as Sunday 
is the only day they have to cultivate their gardens, and to go to 
market." — In 1823, what had been done to amend this state of things? 
We boldly challenge Lord Seaford to give an answer to this question. 
Even in Jamaica, if the slave law of 1 788 is compared with that of 1816, 
(its latest edition,) it will be found that no improvement had taken 
place with respect either to the religious instruction and education of the 
slaves, or to their effectual protection by law. Lord Seaford himself 
had allowed twenty-six years to elapse without having taken a single 
step to promote the moral and religious improvement of his own slaves, 
by affording them the means of education ; or by giving them Sunday as 
a day of rest and religious instruction ; or by encouraging marriage ; 
or by repressing immoralities ; or by abolishing the driving system ; or 



300 Lord Seaford — Violation of Pro'perty by Abolitionists. 

by exempting women from the labour of the field, or from the punish- 
ment of the cart-whip. All, in short, remained in 1823, both in law 
and in fact, in precisely the same state, as lo moral and religious im- 
provement, and as to the effectual, legal, protection of the slave, which 
the very resolution proposed by Lord Seaford fully admitted to exist in 
1797. The slaves were then in a state of pagan ignorance, and they 
were unprotected by law. In 1823, notwithstanding all the conciliatory 
propositions which had been made, had any thing effectual been done, 
by the colonial legislatures, to remedy that state of things ? Effectively 
nothing.* The slaves were still left without any legal provision for their 
education or instruction, or any effectual protection by law. And yet 
Lord Seaford scruples not to affirm, that no trial had been made of the 
colonial legislatures, and that no ground had been given for dissatisfac- 
tion with their conduct, or distrust of their dispositions ! Surely this 
is not quite fair on the part of his Lordship. 

2. Lord Seaford then proceeds to accuse the abolitionists of having 
set out with a proposal, the effect of which was a direct violation of the 
property of all the owners of slaves, " It was proposed," he says, " to 
enact that all the children of slaves, born after some short period from 
the date of the enactment, should be declared free ; by which act, the 
property of every owner of a slave would have been at once converted 
from a -property in fee to a life interest." " But was this attack 
of property accompanied," asks his Lordship, " with any offer of com- 
pensation ? No. On the contrary, it was accompanied by a doctrine 
which struck at the root of all compensation. It was argued then, and 
it has since been many times asserted, that the title to such propeity 
was fundamentally vicious, that it was tainted in its origin by acts of 
violence and injustice, — and was inconsistent with the rights of man, 
which forbade that man should be the property of man." 

His Lordship then, after endeavouring to shew the mischievous con- 
sequences to all kinds of property, if the possessors of it should be 
called upon to prove that their title was free from all taint of violence 
and injustice; and also the dangerous effect which such doctrine might 
have on the minds of the slaves,t proceeds to say, that " Whatever 
may be the justice of this principle, as between the slave and those 

* We reserve ourselves on the subject of religious instruction. In the mean 
time we would remark, that the Curates' Act of 1816 forms no valid objection 
to what is said above. It was not calculated for any purpose of good, and its 
chief effect was that of prostituting the holy sacrament of baptism, so as to 
throw dust in the eyes of the people of England, and to put some money into 
the pockets of the colonial clergy. Even in 1825, the Bishop says, that, in the 
parishes of the interior, there was actually no semblance of the forms of religious 
worship. — The only material change in the present slave code, as compared with 
that of 1788, was adding ten days for cultivating the slaves provision grounds to 
the number formerly allowed. By law, slaves were as unprotected as before. 

t This is a stale argument for blinking the truth, and cloaking injustice and 
oppression. It was used still more vehemently in the slave trade debates of 
1807. — It is vain to hope, that the slaves can be instructed in the doctrines of 
(;hristianity, even if they had not the feelings of men, without making them to 
comprehend the radical injustice of the bondage in which they are held. They 
may learn submission to the yoke. They never can learn to think it otherwise 
than an outrage on their own rights, as well as on humanity and religion. 



Lord Seaford's Speech— Oil the Right of Property in Men. ."ID I 

who had originally imposed upon them the condition of slavery ; it 
could not, with any sort of fairness, be applied to a question between 
the owners of the slaves in the colonies, and the government of the 
mother country, who, with a view to her own special interests, had 
established the state of slavery in her colonies, had given to her mer- 
chants the monopoly of the slave trade, and sanctioned the purchase 
of the slaves by the inhabitants of the colonies. As against the mother 
country, then, the title of the owners of the slave was complete and 
conclusive, in bar of any right on the part of the mother country, to 
annihilate or injure, in any degree, that property." 

We are perfectly willing to admit, in the fullest and most explicit 
manner, the truth of that part of this charge which attributes to us the 
belief and avowal that the title to such property is fundamentally 
vicious, — tainted to the very core. Nay, we believe that the holding of 
such property, as it is held in the colonies, is a crime ; an outrage on 
the spirit and the precepts of the Christian religion ; a practice radi- 
cally inhuman, unjust, and unconstitutional ; a foul stain on the cha- 
racter of this country ; and a source of guilt not to those only who 
directly participate in its polluted gains, but to all who, with their eyes 
open, continue to uphold or to palliate its enormities. This view of 
the subject we not only do not deny : we proclaim it aloud : we place it 
as the corner-stone of our association : it is the grand motive and stimulus 
to our exertions. Here we can admit no compromise of principle, in 
deference to any man or set of men. And we think ourselves borne out in 
this view of slavery, by the conduct of the legislature respecting the 
slave trade. For is it not in slavery that the slave trade has its origin ? 
Is it not the market provided by the slave-holder which supplies the 
direct incentive to all the crimes of a trade in slaves ? The slave trade is 
now constituted a crime of the deepest die. The slave trader is a felon 
and a pirate. And if the atrocities of the slave trade exceed those of 
slavery, yet surely the principle of both is identically the same; equally 
opposed to morality and religion ; and equally indefensible on every 
plea of financial and commercial expediency. An act of parliament 
or a degree of latitude cannot annul a principle, or turn moral guilt 
into innocence. And who, we ask, is able to adjust, in nicely- 
balanced scales, the sum of practical misery which the slave trade and 
slavery respectively produce ? The evils of the first are now well 
known and appreciated. Even the advocates of West India slavery 
admit they are no longer to be endured. After years of furious oppo- 
sition and bitter obloquy against the earlier abolitionists, as now against 
those of this day, it has become the fashion with them, to repudiate 
the former object of their fond and affectionate attachment, the slave 
trade. But who that is disinterested, can condemn the slave trade, 
and yet contemplate the evils of slavery without kindred feelings 
of horror ? " Can we think of a protracted and irremediable and per- 
petual bondage, living through the life of the slave, and renewed in his 
children and children's children to the latest generation ; — of the con-.. 
stantly impending scourge and the interminable toil to which it urges ; 
of the blows, the stocks, the contempt, the degradation, the hunger, 
the lassitude, the disease, the anguish of broken and bleeding hearts, to 
which the slave is liable;— can we think of all the nameless and scarcely 

2 p 



302 Lord Seaford*s Speech — On Compensation. 

conceivable agonies which await those whose own destinies, and those 
of every endeared relation — wife, husband, child — are bound up in 
the will of another, from whose tyranny and caprice there is no pro- 
tection in law ;— can we think, in short, of all the demoralizing, and 
dehumanizing, and still more the anti-christianizing effects of such 
a system ; and not be at some loss to discover any very cogent reason 
for exempting the slavery which exists in our colonies from a moral 
reprobation as severe as we pass on the slave trade itself, or for ex- 
hibiting the former as less an outrage than the latter on every prin- 
ciple of justice, humanity, and true religion ? " 

But Lord Seaford would infer, from our holding this view of the 
subject that we strike at the root of compensation, and thus attack 
those general and sacred rights of property which ought not ever 
to be violated. The inference is neither necessary nor obvious. We 
freely admit, however, that the nation are here parties, and are at least 
equally guilty with (or if the noble Lord will have it so, more guilty 
than) the planters ; and it is for that very reason, and because we view 
the matter in this light, that we are disposed to proclaim its guilt so 
loudly. We are anxious not only that the planters should repent of 
their evil deeds, but that the Parliament and people of this country 
should do so too. And while we think that the Parliament and the people 
are equally bound with the West Indians to retrace their steps, and to 
make at length an ample though tardy reparation to the victims of 
their common crime, we think also that they are equally bound to 
sustain the cost of that reparation. Our view of the radical iniquity, 
the incurable injustice of colonial slavery, has no necessary tendency, 
therefore, to exclude, from equitable consideration, any claim which 
the slave-holders may have on Parliament and the country. That 
they may have such a claim we do not deny ; but both parties we 
conceive would better mark their penitence by forthwith agreeing, first 
to abandon their crime, and then to settle the account of indemnities 
between themselves, than by railing either at each other, or at those 
who denounce the evil, yet profess their readiness to bear a part in the 
cost of bringing it to an early and effectual termination. 

We perfectly concur with Lord Seaford, that the question is not a 
question between the planters and the slaves, but between the planters 
and the nation at large. And this very opmion he will find the Anti- 
Slavery Society promulgated within a few weeks of its first formation, 
and has since uniformly maintained. In "A Brief View" of the sub- 
ject, published in April, 1823, and of which some scores of thousands of 
copies have been circulated, and many are still circulating, stand the 
following passages : 

" It is by no means intended to attribute the existence and continu- 
ance of this most opprobrious system to our Colonies exclusively. On 
the contrary, the guilt and shame arising from it belong, in perhaps 
an equal degree, to the people and Parliament of this country. But 
on that very account are we the more rigidly bound to lose no time in 
investigating the state of colonial bondage, and in adopting such 
measures as shall bring it to the earliest termination, compatible with 
the well-being of the parties who sustain its grievous yoke." 
" It is our clear and indispensable duty completely to reform our 



Lord Seaford — On Compensation. 303 

present colonial system, even if it should require a large pecuniary 
sacrifice to accomplish that object. The colonists say, they shall sus- 
tain a great actual loss by the proposed change. If so, they will have 
an opportunity of preferring and establishing their claim. But what- 
ever the extent of that claim may be, it is obvious that it attaches, not to 
the negro bondsman, but to the British nation. It would be repugnant 
to every idea of equity, if we were to discharge any debt we may owe the 
colonists, not from our own resources, but with the toil and sweat and 
blood of our African brethren." 

So far then, with respect to the general principle. Lord Seaford and 
ourselves seem to be in perfect agreement ; and we conclude, therefore, 
that he would concur with us in indignantly reprobating the principle 
which, in substance, some West Indian advocates have not scrupled to 
put forward, and which we have already endeavoured to stigmatize 
as it deserves, (see Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 170), — "That 
though it is admitted that the British nation and the colonists have 
been guilty of a great crime in enslaving the negroes, yet compensation 
is due, not from the criminals to each other, or to the victims of their 
crime, but is due from the negroes to their oppressors ; and that in 
order to furnish this compensation to the criminals, the unoffending 
victims of their common crime may be retained for ages, if need be, in 
thdr present abject and degraded state." 

But, says Lord Seaford, " It was proposed to enact that all the 
children of slaves should be declared free ; by which act the property of 
every slave-owner would be converted from a property in fee, into a life 
interest.* But was this attack of property accompanied with any offer 
of compensation ? No." — We are again not a little surprised at his 
Lordship's inaccuracy respecting facts of so recent a date, and the cir- 
cumstance raises a strong presumption against the general clearness of his 
recollections. We are not now discussing the principle of compensa- 
tion, or whether children should be made free with or without it : we are 
merely considering the truth of Lord Seaford's unhesitating affirmation 
that " it was proposed to enact" the liberty of all children of slaves 
to be hereafter born, and that too "unaccompanied with any offer of com- 
pensation." We ask him when and where ? — On the 15th of May, 
1823, Mr. Buxton certainly did, in the House of Commons, state it to 
be his intention to move, among various other measures, that all chil- 
dren of slaves should hereafter be born free, the planter having no just 
claim to them ; but he added, " When I say that the planter has no 
claim against the slave, I do not say that he has no claim against the 
British nation. If slavery be an injustice, it is an injustice which has 
been licensed by British law. But whatever be the claim of the planter 
against the British Government, he can pretend to none to the person 
of a child born of negro parents." And at the close of the debate, in 
reply to Mr. Baring, who accused him of not having whispered a sylla- 
ble about compensation, he said, " I appeal to the House whether there 
is justice in the charge. I clearly and explicitly declaied my opinion 

* See the identity of this proposition with his old argumeat in 1797, on the 
slave trade, (above, p. 298, near the bottom of the page). 



304 Lord Seaford -Parliamentary Interference. 

thai the question of compensation to the planter 'was one that merited 
attention. The crime is ours, and ours must be the expence of getting 
rid of it." Wherein then does Mr. Buxton differ from Lord Seaford ? 
But this was not all. Mr. Buxton laid before His Majesty's Government, 
only a few days after this debate, a detailed plan, with a view to the 
emancipation, the due education, and the maintenance of the children 
who should be born hereafter. A prominent part of this plan was a 
large indemnity to the planters for the children so to be freed, an 
indemnity, in fact, which would have been far more than their actual 
value ! Mr. Canning was understood, at the time, to have consulted 
Lord Seaford upon this plan, but his Lordship may have forgotten it. 
If he now wishes for it he may be furnished with a copy. 

Mr. Canning having, however, signified his unwillingness to adopt 
this plan, another was proposed to him, which Lord Seaford may see in 
the Appendix to the Anti-Slavery Society's second Report, p. 168 — 179. 
Of this plan, which he will also find to have embraced the principle 
of ample compensation, both Mr. Canning and Lord Liverpool, on 
several occasions, expressed their approbation. Objections were raised 
to it, however, in another quarter, and those objections, Ave regret to 
say, ultimately prevailed. The substance of them will be found stated 
and answered at p. 179 — 187. The observations on the subject in the 
body of the second Report were to the following effect ; 

" If we look narrowly into the subject of compensation, we shall find 
it far from being attended with those formidable and apparently insu- 
perable difficulties with which the exaggerated claims of the West 
Indians have invested it." — jNIr, Barham's estimate of the annual net 
income of the West Indies, viz. £.2,100,000 is then taken as the basis 
of calculation, and being valued at sixteen years purchase, is made 
to amount to £.33,000,000, which sum, it is shown, might be liquidated 
by a perpetual annuity, at three and a half per cent, of £.1,176,000, 
" a sum," it is added, " less than the nation is now made to pay" (this 
was in 1825) " to the West Indians, in consequence of the mode of re- 
gulating the drawback on sugar, independently of the protecting duties, 
and exclusive of all other charges civil or miUtary. What we now pay, 
however, we pay to uphold and aggravate slavery. A less sum, if 
Mr. Barham is right in his estimate, would be sufiicient to buy out the 
whole system. And even if this were thought too large a step to take 
at once, by less than a third of what we now pay," (viz. £450,000 
annually) " we might redeem from their bondage the whole of the 
female population" (alluding to the plan in the Appendix) " and thus 
extinguish slavery in a single generation." 

The reader is now in a capacity of judging whether Lord Seaford is 
correct in asserting that it was proposed to free the children without 
compensation. 

3. Lord Seaford is further displeased, that the abolitionists should call 
so strongly and urgently for the interference of parliament with the 
colonial legislatures, and he labours hard to shew the inexpediency of 
that course. But we have already dwelt at so much length, and, as we 
conceive, so unanswerably, on this point, in our last Number, that it 
seems superfluous to recur to it. We can see no reason wh) the negroes 



Lord Seaford — Calumnies of Abolitionists. 305 

in Jamaica should not be as effectually protected from the oppressions, 
and exactions, and cruelties of the whites, by an act of parliament, as, 
in Demerara or Trinidad, by an order in council. Of this we feel con- 
fident, and that confidence is not a little increased by the tenor of Lord 
Seaford's speech, that without parliamentary interference, all hope of the 
fulfilment of the pledges of 1823 must be abandoned. The West 
India committee, with Lord Seaford at their head, choose to put it forth 
to the public, and require it to be believed on their word, and without a 
single attempt at proof, nay, in opposition to the most conclusive evi- 
dence — the returns on the table of parliament, and the whole tenor of 
the correspondence of the colonial secretary of state, with the colonial 
authorities, — that the spirit, though not the detail of almost every one of 
the recommendations of the Government has been adopted by every 
one of the legislatures. The hardihood of unsupported and unwar- 
ranted assertion can go no farther than this.* 

4. But there remains a still heavier charge against the abolitionists. 
They have calumniated, his Lordship tells us, the character of the 
colonists. Acts of individual cruelty have been collected and detailed 
to inflame the public feeling. The general state of colonial morals and 
manners has been misrepresented, while the testimony in favour of 
the whites has been set aside ; and thus has hostility been excited to 
all plans of reform among the colonists, who, he assures us, are the 
only instruments of reform. In short, the non-improvement of the 
condition of the slaves, and the prolongation of their bondage, is the 
work not of the planters, but of the abolitionists. — This is ludicrous 
enough ; but it is not new. It has been one of the main weapons of 
colonial controversy from the year 1787 to the present day. Every 
thing alleged against cruelty, oppression, and injustice, in the case 
of the slave trade, was, with all the West Indians of that day, as of 
every succeeding day, just as it now is in the parliamentary re- 
port of Lord Seaford's speech ; — calumny and falsehood, a vilifying and 
traducing of character. And so it ever will and must be. For in what 
terms, we ask, are we to tell the world of that dreadful state of law in 
Jamaica which enacts that " In order to restrain arbitrary punish- 
ments — such is the preamble in all the successive acts ; — In order to 
restrain arbitrary picnishments," every driver or quasi driver may inflict 
ten lashes, and every owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, 
or overseer, may inflict thirty-nine lashes of the cart-whip on the 
bare body of any man, woman, or child, without being required, by law, 
to assign the slightest reason, or being liable, in law, to one question, 
for so doing; — in what terms, we ask again, are we to tell parliament 
and the country of this dreadful state of law in Jamaica, so as to 
avoid appearing, to the sensitive minds of Lord Seaford and his West 
Indian brethren, to be traducing and vilifying their characters ? We do 
not say, because we do not know, that on every estate, every driver, or 
every overseer, is constantly exercising the power he possesses of lace- 
rating the slaves under hun ; but Ave do say he has that power and 

* See Slave Colonies of Great Britain ; and Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. II, 
28, 29, 30, 31, 37, 38, &c. 



306 Lord Seaford — Calunmies of Abolitionists. 

may exercise it, and (seeing wliat human nature is) he doubtless often 
does exercise it; and we further say, that the planters of Jamaica have 
not only refused to protect the slave by lav? from such torture, but that 
their indignation — (v?e regret that Lord Seaford should, in any mea- 
sure, have seemed to participate in the feeling) is directed against 
those who dare to denounce the cart- whip as an object of reprobation. 

It were easy to take one law after another, and in the same way to 
shew what is, in truth, the calumny of which we have been guilty, 
and which has so strongly excited Lord Seaford's ire, not against the 
framers and favourers of such atrocious enactments, but against those 
who hold them forth in their true and proper colours. But we forbear. — 
If any one wishes to obtain a just view of West India society, or of 
West India manners and morals, let him take it, not from the pages of 
the abolitionists ; but let him take it from any and every week's Jamaica 
Gazette ; let him take it from writers who are themselves West Indians; 
from the returns furnished by the colonial authorities; from the 
successive reports and addresses of the Jamaica assembly from 1788 
downwards to the. present day; from the solemn, and deliberate, and 
recent enactments of the Jamaica and other colonial legislatures ; and 
from the very apologies and defences they make of their system. It is 
utter folly and drivelling to imagine that any great fabric of crime, and 
oppression, like slavery, especially if it minister to the cupidity of 
multitudes, and is attended with the gratifying exercise of that power 
which is so dear to the corrupt heart of man, can be overthrown without 
a full and unsparing exposure. It has been our object to expose it in 
its true colours: we have done so, and shall continue to do so. But 
we absolutely repel the insinuation that we have calumniated individuals, 
much more calumniated slavery, if that were possible. All our pages 
are open to Lord Seaford. We challenge him to point out the passages 
in them on which he rests (we will not say, in the words of his Lord- 
ship, his calumny, but) his charge against us. We boldly and une- 
quivocally deny its truth, and if he will condescend to make it more 
specific, we pledge ourselves not simply to deny, but to refute it. All 
the plausible ingenuity which he has so often employed to varnish over 
this bad system, if called again into full operation, will only serve, we 
feel persuaded, to make the triumph of the cause the nation has 
espoused, more complete ; for it is the cause of truth, of humanity, and 
of justice ; the cause of Him who has commanded us to love our 
neighbour as ourselves, and to do unto our fellow-men as we would they 
should do unto us ; of Him who regards with the same benignity, and 
has redeemed with the same costly sacrifice, the black and the white, 
the bond and the free, the whip-galled slave, and the master whose 
sumptuous table and splendid equipage, and magnificent establishments 
and dignified station, are the fruit of that slave's misery and degradation. 
4 Lord Seaford has strangely fancied that we have been anxious to 
press into our service every instance of cruelty w^hich the criminal 
calendars of the colonies may furnish, in order to serve the purposes of 
inflammation against the persons and characters of the colonists. He 
has miserably miscalculated and underrated our object. It has been to 
illustrate the real natureof colonial bondage, and the total destitution of 



Lord Seaford — Calumnies of AboUtio7iists. 307 

legal p.oiection enjoyed by the slave under the existing system, and 
not to excite odium against individuals, that particular instances of 
atrocity have been referred to: — it has been done to illustrate principles, 
not to inflame the passions. To take an example : 

In the memorable report of the fiscal of Berbice, of the details of 
which Lord Seaford himself has spoken in proper terms of disgust and 
abhorrence, there occurs the following statement : 

" Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C. Jones. 
' Mr. Jones took me out of the barracks on Tuesday. He sent me to 
Mr. Henery ; he would not buy me. He sent me to another gentleman. 
Both said my master asked too much money for me, and sent me back. 
I begged for a pass to look for an owner. He said no, he would put 

me down, and cut my . I was then laid down, and tied to three 

stakes, and Chance flogged me with a cart-whip. I got a severe flog- 
ging. I have marks of severe pur\ishment visible on me ; old and 

recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones.' She' exhibits her , 

which are covered with a plaster by order of the doctor, and apparently 
lacerated to that degree, that the Court judged it expedient not to un- 
cover it. Mr. Jones being called upon, said he had flogged her, and 
also broken her mouth for her insolence. He had had thirty-nine laid 
on her, and they were well inflicted. When he sent for her he had no 
intention of flogging her, but, after sending her to three persons for 
sale and not succeeding, he told her she had often deserved a flogging. 
He then directed her to be flogged, and that it should be well laid on, 
which wEis done." — Berbice Fiscal's First Report, p. 14. 

In the Fiscal's second Report, still more memorable, if possible, than 
the first, because it sometimes adds, to the atrocities of the simple details 
of the facts of some of the cases, their judicial results, we have the con- 
clusion of this matter^~the legal issue of Minkie's complaint. The 
Fiscal had referred it, along with his minutes of evidence, to the judg- 
ment of the Court of Policy ; and this is the account of their decision : 
" His Honour, the President, and the Court, were highly indignant 
at the treatment of this female. No evidence, however, could be ob- 
tained to convict Mr. Jones of having inflicted a severer punishment 
than that prescribed by law, although the Court were fully satisfied 
that the unfortunate female slave had been flogged in a severe and cruel 
manner, and to her sufferings, by her master's own confession, was 
added the breaking of her mouth in a most brutal manner," p. 10. 
And what was the final proceeding of his Honour the President, and 
the Court ? They directed Mr. Jones the master to take this wretched 
woman Minkie from the custody of the under-sheriff' on payment of the 
fees. She was returned into the unlimited power, and placed at the 
absolute disposal, of this merciless tyrant, without the slightest guaran- 
tee against the renewal of the same barbarous treatment. Such is the 
tale as it stands on the Records of the Fiscal of Berbice. 

We have no doubt that Lord Seaford is as much shocked with that tale 
as any member of the Anti-Slavery Committee. He is greatly mistaken, 
however, if he supposes that the reason for having produced it before the 
public was to excite horror against individuals. Who is Mr. Thomas 
C. Jones? Who cares for him? Or what is the value of his cha- 
racter ? And as for all the other parties in the transaction, they appear 



308 Lord Seaford — Calum?iies of Abolitionists. 

to have acted with feeling and propriety. What could they do more ? 
The law acquitted Mr. Jones. In the view of the Berbice code, (and 
that of Jamaica is, in this respect, the same,) he had done nothing 
wrong. He had only exercised the power which that merciful and 
considerate law gives to every ruffian, not himself a slave, of inflicting 
thirty-nine lacerations of the cart-whip on the bare and quivering limbs 
of a wretched female ; nay, we see him insolently bearding the Su- 
preme Court of Justice in the colony, with his daring avowal of the 
deed, and his exultation in it ; and demanding to have the wretched 
sufferer given up to him as his property ; while the President and his 
associates have no alternative but to restore this poor helpless, unpro- 
tected female, to his blows and stripes, and ruffian violence. Nor is it 
merely the state of the law, as regulating the master's tremendous 
power, which is here illustrated, but the effect of that most cherished 
inheritance of the planters, from the touch of which they so sensitively 
shrink that it is like touching the apple of the eye, (a feeling in which 
even Lord Seaford sympathizes,) we mean the sacred right of pro- 
perty in their fellow-men, in men made like themselves in the image 
of God, redeemed like them by the blood of Christ, and heirs like them 
of immortality. 

We shall be probably told again, as we have been told before, to 
admire the lenity of the slave code of Jamaica, which is so anxious to 
restrain arbitrary punishments, that it permits no man to inflict, at his 
own discretion, more than thirty-nine lacerations of the cart- whip at a 
time ; and we may be called, therefore, to express our thankfulness, as 
has of late been so emphatically done in the House of Lords, that Jamaica 
has done so much, rather than to complam that she has done so little. 
We, however, cannot concur with any noble Lord in that view of the 
subject. The Assembly of Barbadoes, and they are plain spoken men, 
deride the disingenuousness of affecting squeamishly to limit the num- 
ber of the stripes, for, they tell us, it is far better to leave every man to 
give as many as he pleases, because such is the power of this instru- 
ment, that " in the hands of a relentless executioner, a given number 
of stripes may, under the sanction of the law, be so inflicted as to 
amount to an act of cruelty." Indeed, as is well known, even a few 
stripes may do so . And what says Mr. Barrett, one of the members of 
the Jamaica Assembly, himself a planter, of this instrument, which that 
Assembly maintains in its plenitude of operation, not only as a regular 
mode of arbitrarily punishing men and women for whatever an overseer, 
in his discretion, or caprice, or passion, or drunkenness, may deem to 
be an offence ; but as the stimulus, the quickener of the labour in the 
field, both of men and women ? He calls it " the fellow of the rack and 
the thumbscrew " — and he affirms, " that thirty-nine lashes of this 
horrid instrument can be made more grievous than five hundred lashes 
with a cat." 

But the sheet is full, and we must lay down the cart-whip which 
Lord Seaford has compelled us to take up in our own defence, reserving 
t\m counsel we had meant to give him, for another occasion. 



London : Baii:ster and Thoms, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close, 



