AN 

ADDRESS 

TO THE 

MEMBERS OF THE NEW PARLIAMENT, 

ON THE 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE COLONIAL DEPARTMENT, 

IN FURTHERANCE OF THE 

RESOLUTIONS OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS OF THE 15th MAY 1823, 

" For Ameliorating the Condition of the Slave Population in 
His Majesty'' s Colonies;^' 

AND ON THE 

ONLY COURSE THAT OUGHT NOW TO BE PURSUED BY HIS 
MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT. 



SECOND EDITION. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, and GREEN, 
PATERNOSTER-ROW, 

AND TO BE HAD OF THE PRINCIPAL BOOKSELLERS IN LIVERPOOL, 
tiLASGOW, &C. 



1826, 



res-^s'sb'bf f^o< 11 



W. WILSON, PRINTER, 57, SKINNER-STREET, LONDON. 



Among the subjects which will engage your early 
attention^ there is not one of paramount importance 
to " the West Indian question/' of which Mr. 
Canning has said :-— '' To speak of the difficulties 
'" which encompass it^ as compared with almost any 
" other question which has ever occupied the atten- 
'' tion of parliament^ would be to draw but a faint 
'^'^ and feeble picture of those difficulties; they are, 
" indeed, apparent to the most casual observation ; 
" btrt he who has to probe and prove them;, for the 
'^'^ purpose of applying a remedy, finds them thicken- 
'' ing around him at every step, and leaving him fre- 
^'^ quently nothing but a choice of evils." With such 
a description, by a statesman so eminent as Mr. 
Canning, I hope 1 shall stand excused for submitting 
to your notice a brief explanation and impartial re- 
view of the proceedings of the Colonial Department 
in Downing-Street, in furtherance of the resolutions 
of the House of Commons, of the 15th May 1823*, 

* 1st. " That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive mea- 
" sures foi" ameliorating the condition of the slave population in his 
" Majesty's colonies. 

2d. " That through a determined and persevering, but at the same 
'^ time judicious and temperate, enforcement of such measures, this 
" House looks forward to a progressive improvement in the character 
" of the slave population, such as may prepare them for a participa- 
" tion in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other 
" classes of his Majesty's subjects. 

3d. " That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this 
'' purpose, at the earliest period that sliall be compatible with the 
" well-being of the slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, 
" and with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of pri- 
" vate property." 



with observations on the only course now open to 
you, '" compatible with the well-being of the slaves 
'' themselves, with the safety of the colonies, and 
" with a fair and equitable consideration of the in- 
'^' terests of private property." 

You will find on your tables '' Papers in explana- 
" tion of the measures adopted by his Majesty's 
" government for the amelioration of the condition of 
'' the slave population in his Majesty's dominions in 
'' the West Indies :" to these " papers" I have to 
solicit your particular attention. The anti-slavery 
and West India parties have both expressed their 
dissatisfaction v^ith them, but for very opposite rea- 
sons—the one complains of his Majesty's government 
for having proceeded too slowly, while the other 
objects to the rapidity of the movements : that both 
complaints should be well founded may appear para- 
doxical, yet it will probably be seen that neither is 
without foundation, and that by moving more slowly 
the progress might have been greater. 

The question is avowedly encompassed by difficul- 
ties, and therefore it might have been expected that 
the most deliberate investigation would have pre- 
ceded any attempt at legislation. This question, 
however, which Mr. Canning thought '' great and 
'' difficult beyond example ; one almost beyond the 
" power of man," '' the recasting as it were, of a 
''' whole generation of mankind," was undertaken 
by the Colonial Department, to which it more espe- 
cially belonged, with an apparent innocence of all 
consciousness of its importance or difficulty. Earl Ba- 
thurst did not deem it necessary to '^^ probe and prove," 
and therefore avoided the misfortune of finding diffi- 
culties " thickening around him at every step." His 
lordship went to work as if he had been dealing with a 
common-place every-day question. On the 28th of 
May 1823, not a fortnight after the resolutions of the 
House of Commons, Lord Bathurst made his first 
communication to the colonies by furnishing each 
governor with a copy of the resolutions of the House 



of Commons, and the '^''best report" his lordship 
could procure of Mr. Canning's speech on proposing 
the resolutions. He announced two of the measures 
on which his Majesty's government had determined : 
the governor of Demerara was requested to submit 
them to the Court of Policy for adoption^ to render 
his Majesty's commands unnecessary : those other 
colonies which had not* independent local legisla- 
tures were informed that they must be enforced^ and 
the governors of colonies having independent local 
legislatures were instructed to recommend similar 
measures to the respective legislatures. In another 
fortnight (12th June 1823) Lord Bathurst again ad- 
dressed the governors of colonies having local legis- 
latures, and saidj " I am not as yet prepared to com- 
'' municate to you the definitive instructions which 
''' his Majesty's government will issue, with respect 
'^ to the immediate measures for the improvement of 
'' the condition of the slave population necessary to 
'^ be enforced by the colonial legislatures at their next 
" meeting." In less than a month thereafter (9th 
July 1823), and within two months of the passing of 
the resolutions of the House of Commons^ Lord 
Bathurst again addressed these governors, the gover- 
nors of colonies having local legislatures, in a cir- 
cular occupying six printed folio pages, and detailing 
the measures to be adopted. His lordship writes, 
'' the su2:s"estions which I am about to make are not 
"^ to be understood as affording a full development of 
" what his Majesty's government have in contempla- 

* " The Colonies are divided into two classes ; one of which 
" (the smaller mimber-{-) are governed by the crown, without the 
" intervention of local legislative assemblies ; the other, and larger 
" class, have legislative assemblies framed in miniature, after the 
" model of those of the mother country. As such assemblies are 
" not a little jealous of the rights and privileges by the possession 
" of which they resemble the institutions of the parent state, the 
" colonies of the first class are much more easily manageable." 

Mr. Canning. 

-\- Demerara, Berbice, Trinidad, and St. Lucia. 



6 

•' tiori on this iniportant stilyect ; it is my purpose 
'* rather to ^point out such changes in the laws as may 
'^ be conveniently adopted at present," — '' You will 
'" be attentive to have the necessary laws framed, 
'' with such precaution and foresight as, if possible^ 
" to provide an effectual security for the faithful ob- 
'" servance of them. To this end you will consult 
'' with the legal advisers of the crown, on the frame 
^' M the necessary bills, and you will, from time to 
"^ time, communicate with me upon the progress you 
" make in this work, or on the difficulties which may 
'" obstruct its completion, and if (what I am unwil- 
"" ling to imagine) you should meet with any serious 
'^ opposition, you will lose no time in transmitting to 
'^'^ me the necessary communication, in order that / 
'^ may take the earliest opportuniti/ of lai/ing the 
" matter before parliament, and submitting to their 
'' consideration such measures as it may be fit to 
" adopt in consequence." A copy of this circular was 
transmitted to each of the colonies not having; inde- 
pendent local legislatures. The governors of Deme- 
rara and Berbice were to submit the measures to the 
courts in these colonies, to be applied in the way best 
suited to the '' existing laws and usages," preserving 
the entire spirit. The governors of Trinidad and St. 
Lucia were informed that orders in council would be 
prepared for their islands. Accordingly, on the 25th 
of March 1824, Lord Bathurst forwarded to the 
governor of Trinidad an order in council for that 
island, consisting of forty -three clauses, filling fifteen 
pages of the folio printed papers on your tables, and 
involving in its " enactments obligations affecting the 
" most ordinary transactions of fife." The governor 
was enjoined to proclaim the order as soon as re- 
ceived, to be in operation in one month from the date 
of the proclamation. A copy of this order in council 
was transmitted to each of the other governors of 
colonies not having local legislatures, to be adapted 
to the laws of these colonies. The governors of colo- 
nies having independent legislatures were at the same 



time furnished with copies, and Lord Bathurst ex- 
pressed the expectation of his Majesty's government 
that the provisions thereof would be adopted, and 
his lordship appeared to wish it to be understood 
that the " order in council" contained the " whole 
" of the measures which his Majesty's government 
" had in contemplation for the amelioration of the 
'' state of the slave population." 

Having introduced the " Order in Council," 



'& 



it is proper that I should give some account of it. 
When the governor of Trinidad received it he in- 
formed Lord Bathurst that he was " both ready and 
" willing to promote his Majesty's service to the 
'^ utmost of his power," but that many parts of the 
order were of such " doubtful interpretation," that 
he would require explanations. The " order," how- 
ever, was proclaimed on the 24th of May 1824, but 
in two days the governor was obliged to apply to Lord 
Bathurst for further information. On the 3d of June 
the governor was compelled to address Lord Bathurst 
a third time on points requiring- explanation or al- 
teration. When his lordship's explanations of the first 
objections started by the governor were received, they 
were so incomplete and unsatisfactory that the g-over- 
nor was under the necessity of pressing for further 
explanations and alterations. Indeed, so early as 
September, (almost as soon as the commencement of 
the operation of the '' order" could be known in this 
country). Lord Bathurst was obliged to have recourse 
to another " order in council," to " remove doubts 
and to meet difficulties," as his lordship expresses 
himself to the governor. In the same month the 
chief judge of the island felt so much perplexed and 
embarrassed by the ambiguous wording and apparent 
inconsistencies of the order in council, that he ad- 
dressed the governor on the subject, but the governor 
could afford no relief or assistance ! As a specimen 
of the legislation of the order in council, I shall 
adduce some correspondence on one clause, namely, 
the forty-second. The governor's letter to Lord 



Bathurst, of the 7th May^ says, '' The forty-second 
"^ clausCj however, is that which has really created 
'' great con stern ation, as it confiscates to the crown 
" ail the slaves of any person, tv/ice convicted of in- 
" flicting upon any slave^ any cruel or unlawful 
'" punishment under the " order/ to the prejudice of 
'' his family, and without reservation in favour of his 
^'^ creditors, and w^hen your lordship considers that 
"^ persons are now for the first time forbidden to 
"^ strike any female slave, that this class is allowed by 
'' all to be the most prone to give offence, and that it 
" will become even more difficult than at present to 
'' restrain them, from their knowledge that their 
" master cannot punish them, as he was accustomed 
" to do, your lordship will, I think, be disposed to 
'" make d,ome allowance for the infirmities of human 
" nature, and at least save the family of the offender, 
'' from that ruin which might fall on them in conse- 
^' quence of an intemperate action of his own." In a 
subsequent letter he says, of the forty-seeond clause, 
"" The whole population are unanimous in their com- 
''' plaint against the severity of it." Lord Bathurst 
replies, " The forfeiture of slaves upon a second con- 
'■' viction for an unlawful punishment is, expressly 
'' left to the ' discretion of the court,' and there- 
" fore would not be enforced except in extreme 
" cases. It is also to be observed that the for- 
" feiture is to the benefit of the crown, and therefore 
'" would not be enforced unless the offence were of 
'" a very grave and serious character. In order, 
" however, to allay an apprehension which may be 
'^'^ entertained of a harsh exercise of this enactment, 
" I have to direct that the penalty on the second con- 
'^ viction shall never be enforced until the whole 
" case has been referred home for the consideration 
" of his Majesty ." The following is the rejoinder 
of the governor, on finding that his lordship had not 
paid him the compliment of even reading the clause 
complained of! "I humbly beg leave to observe, 
" that the discretion vested in the court, to which 



'^'^ youT lordship adverts, is confined to the first offence, 
" and that for the second the forfeiture of all the 
" slaves of any unfortunate offender is declared ab- 
'' SOLUTE." That his lordship might be without any 
means of escape the cliief judge of the island says^ 
'' Neither is the right of prosecution for enforcement 
'' of the penalty limited to the crown prosecutor. By 
'' the express letter of the law it is competent to any 
" individual in the community to institute such a pro- 
" secution, and the judgment for the penalty and for- 
" feiture in case of a second offence must follow the 
" conviction under the law, and as by the order in 
" council of the 16th September 1822^ no appeal is 
"' admissible in criminal cases, except in cases of 
" condemnation to deaths, I am at a loss to ascertain 
" by what means the judgment can be reserved or 
" suspended^ at least as far as the penalty extends." 
Well might Mr. Brougham exclaim, in his spirited 
work on colonial policy^ '' any parliament^ council^ 
" or senate^ which should begin such a work (legis- 
" lating- for colonies) would find it necessary to give 
" up legislating for the mother country, in order 
" partly to mar and partly to neglect the legislation 
'^'^ of the colonies. Let this branch of the imperial 
" administration, then, be left to the care of those 
'* who are themselves most immediately interested in 
" the good order and government of those distant 
'^'^ provinces, and whose knowledge of local circum- 
" stances (of things which cannot be written down in 
" reports, nor told by witnesses), is more full and 
"" practical." 

The inconvenience and injustice of such legisla- 
tion have been well expressed by the inhabitants 
of Trinidad, in a memorial to the governor : they 
say, " Your memorialists humbly contend that they 
"" are placed in singular and extraordinary circum- 
'' stances, without precedent in the annals of legisla- 
" tion for British subjects : laws for their govern- 
'' ment are universally understood to be framed by 
" their representatives, whose properties and persohj? 



10 

'' they are to affect equally with the rest of the com- 
" munity. Such laws are called for by the previous 
'' necessity of the case ; their want has been felt ; 
" their meaning and intention understood previous 
'' to promulgation^ and should an occasional error 
''^ creep into the wording or expression of such mean- 
'^ ingj it can be discovered and remedied on the spot 
^'^ without delay." 

The Court of Policy^ in Demerara^ had evinced 
such a strong desire to meet the wishes of his 
Majesty's government^ that Lord Bathurst felt him- 
self called upon to declare that " they had done 
"^ themselves much honour," and that they had '' his 
'' Majesty's approbation for their zeal and assiduity 
'' manifested in giving effect to his royal intentions, 
*"" and the wishes of parliament in favour of the slave 
'^ population." Yet with all this zeal, of the sincerity 
of which there are abundant proofs in the papers on 
your tables, the court found it to be impossible to 
reconcile some of the provisions of the order in coun- 
cil to the laws and usages of Demerara. For in- 
stance, by the Spanish law, which is the law of 
Trinidad, a slave has a right to purchase his freedom 
against the consent of his master ; the Trinidad 
order in council is framed accordingly ; but when the 
Court of Policy in Demerara were requested to ori- 
ginate a similar law, they at once said it was beyond 
their power; that they had not the right to invade 
the property of their fellow colonists by admitting 
that they could be in any manner deprived of it 
contrary to the law by which it was secured to them, 
and which his Majesty had been graciously pleased to 
guaranty by the articles of capitulation on which the 
colony had surrendered to his Majesty's arms; that 
the difference between the Spanish law in Tri- 
nidad and the Dutch law in Demerara was great ; 
that the Trinidad order in council had not affected the 
principle of the Spanish law, which allowed a slave 
to enfranchise himself by purchase, whereas the 
Dutch law erave no such right, the interest of an 



11 

owner in his slave being that of fee simple absolute^ 
whilst the purchaser of a slave in Trinidad knew 
beforehand that he could only acquire a precarious 
title depending on the ability of the slave to purchase^ 
but that, in short, let the Spanish law be what it might, 
it could never alter the right of property in Deme- 
rara. After thus contending for the rights of the 
slave-owner, the court pointed out some of the ruin- 
ous effects which might be anticipated from such an 
alteration of the law, as the non-importation of slaves 
would render it impossible to replace those manu- 
mitted. Lord Bathurst replied, that the argu- 
ments of the Court of Policy had received all the 
consideration which their importance deserved, but 
that his lordship did not consider that they were 
such as would justify the abandonment of the prin- 
ciple which led to the recommendation of that parti- 
cular enactment. The Court rejoined, that it would 
not be respectful to his Majesty's government to 
enter into a discussion with Earl Bathurst, but that 
with all deference, the opinion of the Court remained 
unshaken, and therefore that the Court could not 
conscientiously proceed farther, notwithstanding an 
anxious wish to meet to the fullest extent the wishes of 
his Majesty's government. This respectful represen- 
tation his lordship answered on the 25th Feb. last, like 
a soldier who had received orders which he was to exe- 
cute, leaving responsibihty of consequences to those 
from whom his orders were derived. " I now, for 
" the last tune, bring these regulations under the con- 
'" sideration of the Court, with no other alternative, in 
'^ the event of their declining to admit them, than that 
^' of my humbly submitting to his Majesty the expe- 
'" diency of exacting them by direct royal authority." 
It is clear that the noble Secretary considers the exe- 
cution of what he intimates to be within his orders. 
I beg, however, to suggest to his lordship, that even 
a Military officer is not entirely free from responsi- 
bility ; that before he gives the word '' fire," against 



1^ 

his countrymen, he ought to be satisfied that he is 
not acting under questionable authority ; that he 
knows the true import of the commands he has re- 
ceived;, and that he is justified by the necessity of the 
case. If the last position be not apparent, the legal 
acquittal of a court martial^, on the score of not 
having exceeded orders, would not screen him from 
public condemnation. Let us apply a similar test to 
his lordship's proceedings, and see whether he will 
be entitled to a general acquittal. 

in his lordship's despatches, he pleads the authority 
of " parliament/' the recommendations of the '' prin- 
" cipal planters resident in this country," and the 
" general approbation of the country." Does one of 
his Majesty's principal secretaries of state call reso- 
lutions of the House of Commons the sanction of 
parhament? To the House of Lords the resolutions 
were not submitted until the 7th of March last, when 
the Lord Chancellor said, '' Now, with regard to the 
'' communicating to your lordships these resolutions, 
" at so late a period after their being passed else- 
" where, I will take the liberty of saying, that I 
" cannot help thinking it would be an infinitely 
^' better plan to go upon generally, that when either 
'' house of parliament adopts resolutions or measures 
'^ of an important character, affecting great political 
^' or PRIVATE RIGHTS, it sliould fortliioith communicate 
'^ such measures or resolutions to the other house of 
'^ parliament." Here is the highest law authority of 
the kingdom against his lordship ; but, without dwell- 
ing upon what some may think a matter of form, I 
maintain that it would have been equally incorrect to 
have asserted that his lordship's measures had the ap- 
probation even of the House of Commons, as the re- 
solutions of that house could not be tortured into an 
approbation of enactments not then framed ! ^\ith 
respect to the recommendations of the '' principal 
" planters resident in this country," his lordship is 
equally unfortunate, for they disavow any such sweep- 



13 

ing- recommendations as are ascribed to them^ never 
having hinted a single measure approximating to that 
which has been designated '' compulsory manumis- 
sion ;" and any recommendation of interference with 
the local legislatures they totally disclaim. As to 
the opinion of the country, it is obvious that, as no 
evidence was before the country, there could be no 
opinion sufficiently strong to sanction the act of a 
secretary of state. 

A little consideration will suffice to shew that what 
his lordship has been pleased to denominate the 
'' general approbation of the country," he ought to 
have held in the same estimation as a verdict that 
he knew had been obtained on false evidence. The 
excitement spread throughout the country was pro- 
duced by a party that had avowed by their organ that 
they could do any thing with government * '' by saving 
'' them the trouble of thinking ;" and what could be 
a more yjowerful auxiliary to the views of that party 
than raising an excitement to make it appear that the 
country was on their side. To some of the means 
employed, I beg to crave your attention. Persons 
residing: in the West Indies were invited to furnish 
information ; and, to remove all restramt, it was pro- 
claimed, through the Edinburgh Review and other 
publications, that secrecy should be observed. The 
publishers of the Edinburgh Review, the African 
Institution, and the secretary, Mr. Macaulay, were all 
declared to be willing to receive communications on 
such terms : as might be expected, these three open 
mouths (like those of Venice) were soon most plenti- 
fully supplied. Whilst, the appetites were fresh, 
nothing came amiss. The public was served with 
some strange dishes. Imaginary dialogues, which 
had appeared in a Barbadoes newspaper forty years 

* '^'^ I have no doubt that Government w^ill be disposed to adopt 
" almost any plan which we may propose to them, with respect to 
" Africa, provided ive will hut save them the trouble of thinking. 
" This you will see to be highly important." — Mr, Macaulay to the 
Duke of Gloucester. 



14 

ago, were presented as real and new. The tenth 
report of the African Institution contained ttn account 
of a female slave barbarously treated, during- her 
pregnancy, by an aid-de-camp of Sir James Leith, 
which was said to be such a common occurrence, that 
the grand jury would not entertain a bill against him 
for cruelty. This was in the character of the Bar- 
badoes newspaper fictions, and probably proceeded 
from a lively imagination inflamed by the heat of the 
climate ; but Sir James Leith being only a plain 
soldier, had no relish for such wit, and denounced the 
fiction " a calumny without a shadow of foundation/' 
got up by " some incorrigible dupe or unconscion- 
"* able knave." A British judge and jury were ask- 
ed their opinion, and, strange to say, they proved to 
be as devoid of taste as Sir James Leith. The judge 
said it was " a wicked calumny," which had '^ origi- 
" nated in wilful and wicked fabrication;" and the 
verdict of the jury spoke no less intelligibly. As 
these opinions did not evince a sufficient sense of the 
author's merit, he did not court publicity, by claiming 
the honours of authorship ; and the three mouths 
required so much food, that they did not venture to 
run the risk of having any part of their future sup- 
plies cut off by disclosing even one of the channels 
from whence they derived their sustenance. Their 
prudence was rewarded, for so far from being in 
danger of famine, they had more to fear from re- 
pletion. They were in danger of losing their lives, 
as many children in the West Indies have done, from 
over-feeding. The three mouths kept the public 
constantly supplied with dishes adapted to every taste*. 
The reputed crimes of rl^alf a century were fresh 
dressed, and palmed u^on the public as new. The 
colonists were described as " unrelentingly cruel ;" a 

* '^^ I need not dwell on the temper and colour of this dociiment-|- 
" of Messrs. Wray and others, manufactured^, as it appears, in 
'' England." — Governor of Berbice to Lord Bathurst. 

■\- A Description of the State of Berbice, furnished by the Rev. 
Mr. Wray and others in Berbice, to Mr. Macaulay. 



15 

'' white mob, white oppressors," and " white savages ;" 
persons to whom the "" foulest exhalations" of a slave- 
ship were "fragrance/' and the "deepest groans 
music;" persons who counted their profits '"" per poll 
*' in the West Indian shambles ;" persons whose 
laws were " expressed in the language of insult, and 
" in characters of blood." With such descriptions, 
by individuals holding a respectable rank in society, it 
is not surprising that the Edinburgh Review should 
have looked forward as it did to the destruction of 
the "white savages" with rejoicing*. The reli- 
gious and political feelings of the country were 
worked on by the declaration that the " state of 
" slavery is repugnant to the principles of the British 
" constitution f, and of the Christian religion.'^ In 
short, every engine was employed to rouse the people 
to an universal expression of abhorrence of every 
thing bearing the name of slavery. The " impor- 
" tant engine J," once in motion, soon manufactured 
petitions for every part of the country, and the tables 
of both houses of parliament were loaded with them. 
So far from dignifying the feeling produced by such 
unworthy means as the opinion of the country, 
Lord Bathurst ought to have said to the petitioners^ 

* " If the work is not done, the negroes will do it themselves, 
" and the hulk of their fellow subjects will rejoice that it is done, how- 
" ever deplorable the consequence may he." — Edinburgh Revietv. 

-|- " With respect to a state of slavery being contrary to the 
" spirit of the British constitution, I must say, my lords, that when 
" I find this system was fostered, encouraged, and almost instituted 
*' by the British Constitution, and I might add under the auspices too 
" of so great a constitutional authority as my Lord Somers, I should 
" hesitate a long while before I ventured to say that slavery was con- 
" trary to the genius of the British c*. istitution." — Lord Chancellor's 
Speech, House of Lords. 

J *' A word in private respecting the African Institution. I can- 
'' not help regarding it as an impo-, int engine. We have many 
'' zealous friends in it, high in rank and influence. Indeed, in all the 
" OSTENSIBLE letters you write, whether to Lord Castlereagh, the 
" African Institution, or myself, it will be right to consider the effect 
'' of what you say on luke-warm friends, and in the hands of secret 
" enemies, for such will unavoidably mix with us." — Private Letter 
from Mr. Macaulay to T. Litdlam, Esq. 



16 

*" that he had great pleasure in assurmg them that 
""^ the statements to which their petitions owed their 
'''' origin were gross exaggerations ; that he was fully 
'^justified in giving this assurance by the information 
''' derived from those most entitled to credit — namely ;, 
*"^ the men of high rank and honour who had acted as 
^' governors;, or held military and naval commands ; 
*^* that the depravity of human nature was, however^ 
^' too deeply implanted to permit him to expect that a 
*'^ passage across the Atlantic should change the very 
^"^ nature of his countrymen^ and free them from all 
" imperfection on landing in the West Indies^ and 
'' therefore there might be amongst them persons of 
"^^ vitiated taste, to v^'hcse olfactory nerves ' the foul- 
^^ est exhalations' might be ' fragrance,' and to whom 
*^' the ' deepest groans' might be sublime ' music/ 
'* but that^ when such persons might attempt togra- 
'' tify their tastes at the expense of the negroes^ every 
'" endeavour should be used to bring them to punish- 
^' ment to the utmost extent of the law, and that^ if 
*^ the laws did not authorize punishment proportioned 
'^ to the offence, such representations should be made 
*^ to the local legislatures as could not fail to effect 
*^ the necessary alterations in the laws. Nay, further, 
'"' that his lordship should institute an investigation 
*'' of the colonial codes generally, and point out the 
'' changes which might be safely and wisely in- 
'' troduced, but that the whole fabric of colonial 
"' society rested on a foundation so different from that 
'■' of the mother country, that the greatest delicacy 
"' and circumspection would be necessary ; that what 
^' might be theoretically unjust, might be practically 
"' indispensable ; and, indeed, that the fullest in- 
'' formation that could reach this country must be 
'' imperfect, compared with that possessed by the 
'' colonists, which was more than could be ' written 
"' down in reports,' or ' told by witnesses.' That 
" many of the laws in the colonies, as well as in this 
" country, might be expressed in characters of blood, 
" but that it did not follow that they were executed in 



17 

^' the spirit of ' blood.' That were the character of 
'^ this country to be judged by some of its laws, 
*^ Englishmen would be held in abhorrence, and as in 
" a state of gross barbarism ; that the petitioners 
" might be assured that the barbarous laws^ and the 
^'' practice of the country, did not differ more in 
" England than in the colonies ; yet, that as it was fit 
" that laws inapplicable to the present state of society 
'' should be repealed, his lordship could not doubt that 
*"' the local leg-islatures would cheerfully undertake 
'' the task, indeed that several of them were actually 
" employed in revising- their slave codes ; that the 
** petitioners ought to be reminded, that every law 
•^ now in force in the colonies, had received the 
" ^sanction of the king through responsible ministers. 
" That, with regard to slavery being repugnant to the 
'^ principles of the Christian religion, it was a bold 
" assertion in the face of the fact that the Christian 
" religion and slavery ' had co-existed from the very 
*' dawn of Christianity to the present day.' That 
" the petitioners ought to take care not to attempt to 
'* destroy what they might think contrary to the Chris- 
'* tian religion in a way not consonant to that religion ; 
" that they must take care not to condemn their 
" brethren on false or doubtful testimony ; and, above 
*' all, that they must take care not to give a death- 
*' blow to the ' spirit of the British constitution,' by 
'^ trifling with rights guaranteed with all the solemnity 
" of which that constitution was susceptible." His 
lordship might have added, that, before the petitioners 
could even speak of emancipation, they ought to 
provide an ample fund to indemnify the planters. 

I trust I have succeeded in establishing that Lord 
Bathurst was not justified in claiming for his measures 
the authority of parliament, the country, or tlie prin- 
cipal planters resident in this country. 

I now invite your particular attention to his lord- 
ship's instructions. Mr. Canning has embodied them 
in the following sentences: — "His Majesty's minis- 
'^ ters should consider not only what may be right in 

c 



18 

" theory but what will be wise in practice ; not only 
^^ how to do the greatest possible good, but how to do it 
'^ with the least possible mischief." He points out the 
planters as the only persons through whose instru- 
mentality the good can be effected*. The object and 
manner of accomplishing it are here laid down, and 
ought to be borne in mind throughout the examination 
of the conduct of the Colonial Department. It is im- 
possible to dojusticetoLord Bathurst without reverting 
to the situation and feelings of the planters at the date of 
the resolutions of the House of Commons. They were 
at that period, and had been for some years, in great 
pecuniary distress, from the low prices of sugar and 
rum in this country ; they ascribed much of their 
embarrassment to the pressure of taxation on these 
articles, there having been no reduction of the exces- 
sive war duty on the former, while the tax on the 
latter amounted to 600 per cent, on the market-price 
of a gallon, proof-strength, or some thousands per 
cent, on the net proceeds remaining to the planter, 
after paying all charges. A reduction of war duties 
had taken place on some articles affecting other classes 
of the community, whilst the duty on coffee had been 
raised since the peace from eight-pence to one shilling 
per pound, or fifty per cent. When to these circum- 
stances you add the aspersions on their characters of 
which I have given some specimens in a former page, 
you will be able to form a tolerably correct idea of 
the situation and feelings of the planters, when Lord 
Bathurst made his first communication. 1 now beg 
you to remark certain points which were well known 
to Lord Bathurst at that period. 

* " If the condition of the slave is to be improved, that im- 
" provement is to be introduced through the medium of his master. 
"^ The masters are the instnmients through whom, and by w^hom, 
" you must act upon the slave population ; and if, by any proceed- 
" ings of ours, we shall unhappily place between the slave and his 
" master the barrier of insurmountable hostility, we shall at once 
" put an end to the best chance of emancipation, or even of amend- 
" ment : instead of diffusing gradually over those dark regions a pure 
" and salutary light, we may at once kindle a flame only to be 
" quenched in blood." — Mr. Canning, House of Commons. 



19 

ist. His lordship knew the existence of the feeling 
I have described. 

2nd. His lordship knew the falsehood of the charges 
brought against the colonists as a body. In a des- 
patch to the governor of Jamaica^ 14th July 1824, 
he says^ " The assembly of Jamaica shewed their 
" anxiety for the improvement of the condition 
'* of their slaves by many of the provisions of the 
" consolidation act in 1816/' His lordship has 
elsewhere stated that greatimprovements hadtaken 
place in the condition of the slaves, as well from 
the humane disposition of the planters as from 
the laws which had been enacted. In the year 
1818, when Lord Combermere was governor of 
Barbadoes and commander-in-chief in the Lee- 
ward Islands, he says^ " During my visits to the 
^* other West India islands, I have taken great 
'^ pains pei^sonally to inform myself respecting 
^■' the actual treatment of slaves ; and it is with 
" the most sincere pleasure and gratification 
^' that I observed^ almost universally^ the great- 
'' est attention paid by planters to the domestic 
*■' comforts and proper regulations of the labours 
*^ of their slaves." Of Barbadoes itself Lord Com- 
" bermere reports even more favourably. Inl8]6j 
in Demerara^ the inhabitants petitioned the gover- 
nor and court of policy^ praying that the colony 
might be divided into parishes or districts, and that 
they would cheerfully pay their share of expense to 
have clergymen selected by the bishop of Lon- 
don ; they prayed for other improvements : the 
petition was approved by the governor and 
court of policy, and transmitted to the colonial 
department, where it was suffered to remain 
unnoticed. 

3rdly. His lordship knew that amongst the induce- 
ments held out by the nation to persons to settle 
in the colonies, the one most highly prized (after 
that of the sacred guarantee of the rights of pro- 
perty) was the authority conferred on the local 



20 

legislatures to enact all laws for the internal re- 
gulation of the coloiiies subject to the sanction 
of the king in council. Of this right, Mr. 
Canning has said, the " local legislatures are 
" not a little jealous." 
4thly. His lordship knew that amongst the tempta- 
tions offered by the nation were more than one 
act of parliament^ securing facilities and advan- 
tages to capitalists disposed to lend money on the 
security of West India property ^ that even aliens 
were invited to become lenders. 

You are now enabled to perceive the relative posi- 
tion of both parties, and qualified to judge of his 
lordship's proceedings. 

You will naturally suppose, that^ in accordance with 
Mr. Canning's views, the first step was to conciliate 
the planters ; that the first despatch of the noble secre- 
tary proclaimed to them that his lordship had no affinity 
of feeling with their calumniators ; that the testimo- 
nies in their favour in his office should be published, 
not suppressed ; that he would use his best endeavours 
with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to relieve them 
of a portion of their burthens as soon as practicable ; 
that he would steer clear of all contact with their pri- 
vileges ; and that, before he submitted to their consi- 
deration any alteration in the laws, he should be in 
possession of the fullest information from persons of 
ability and honour, whom he should employ for the 
special purpose of instituting impartial enquiries on 
the spot. You will search in vain for any of these 
consolatory expressions in his lordship's despatches. 
He allows the colonists to believe that he gives full 
credit to their enemies ; he keeps every testimony in 
their favour snug in his office; he makes no allusion 
to their pecuniary complaints; he institutes no in- 
vestigation ; he respects no rights or privileges, 
but at once tells the governors, that the fol- 
lowing packet should convey the '' instructions'' 
• which his Majesty's government would '' issue." 



21 

Accordingly, that next packet did convey such in- 
structions (see page 5)^ consisting of many pages 
of legislative innovationSj on a system that " no pre- 
" ceding generation of British legislators had ven- 
*' tured to touch with a reforming hand* ;'' and, by 
way of making those innovations acceptable to the 
colonial legislatures, he declares, that '' they are not 
" to be understood as affording a full development of 
" what his Majesty's government have in contem- 
'' plation." Lest the colonial legislatures should be 
inoculated with a little of Mr. Canning's diffidence on 
subjects of such vital importance, his lordship very 
considerately provides (see p. 6) that the governors 
and crown lawyers shall assist ; and that, in the event of 
their being all unequal to the task, he will immediately 
employ the Imperial Parliament ! It was no doubt 
very kind in Lord Bathurst to offer to save the Co- 
lonial legislatures so much trouble ; but the local 
legislatures were ungrateful enough to undervalue 
all this paternal care and tenderness : they considered 
it little better than an invasion of their rights and 
privileges, and declined to give up their exclusive 
province to legislate in all matters of internal regula- 
tion. The House of Assembly in Jamaica coupled 
their rejection of Lord Bathurst's assistance with the 
declaration, that '' This house, however, will at all 
" times receive with attention and respect any sug- 
" gestion of His Majesty's ministers, relating- to 
" legislation, when offered in a consistent and becoming 
" manner." You will be pleased to obverve, that at 
the time when Lord Bathurst thus treated the local 
legislatures, as if they had no rights, or indeed as 
if they had never even supposed themselves to be 

* " Do we, in the ardour of our nascent reformation, forget, that 
" during the ages for which this system has existed, no preceding 
" generation of legislators has ventured to touch it with a reforming 
" liand ? — and have Ave the vanity to flatter ourselves that we can 
" annihilate it at a blow ? No, sir, no ; —we must be contented to 
" proceed, as I save already yaid, irradnally and caidionsli/.''' 

Mr. Canning. 



possessed of any^ his Lordship had not charged 
them with any acts calculated to afford a pretext for 
callina: their riarhts or even their usefulness into 
question. The forty-second clause of the Trinidad 
Order in Council is a virtual repeal of the Acts of 
Parliament encouraging loans on West India pro- 
perty ; nay^ it is tantamount to an act to compel 
mortgagees to foreclose all mortgages on the estates of 
planters resident in the West Indies ; for what 
merchant would lend money when he knew that the 
borrower might destroy his security by two ^' un- 
'' lawful" acts ? — and what merchant would continue 
his advances;, except on condition that the planter 
removed from a place where he might subject himself 
to the forfeiture of his property by being guilty of 
two unlawful acts. If a man is to forfeit his property, 
and be incapable of holding any thereafter for com- 
mitting two unlawful acts, I should like to know 
what would be his lordship's situation if judged by 
laws framed in a similar spirit! You will at once 
see that no planter in debt would be allowed to re- 
side in the West Indies; that he must remove from 
his plantation, and consequently increase his em- 
barrassments by the expense of residing elsewhere, 
and having to pay an agent. His lordship's acts are 
so opposite to what Mr. Canning has described as his 
duty, that I almost suspect his lordship has trans- 
posed Mr. Canning's words, and read them — '' to do 
'' the greatest possible mischief with the least pos- 
"^ sible good." If his lordship establishes this read- 
ing, I must acknowledge that he is entitled to an 
acquittal. 

I have reserved for a distinct examination, on 
account of its importance, the question of '' compul- 
'' sory manumission," which Mr. Canning calls the 
'' opening by which slavery itself may escape." 
That right honourable gentleman has said, '' I do 
'" maintain that we, having all concurred in the guilt 
" of rearing and fostering the evil, are not to turn 
" round upon the planters, and say, ' You alone 



23 

" shall sLitter all the penalty ; we determine to get 
" rid of the moral pestilencej which atVects our 
'^ character as much as yours^ which we have as 
" much contributed to propagate as i/oi^ ; hut ?/ou, 
'' as spotted lepers^ shall be banished from our 
^^ society^ and cast to utter ruin^ to expiate our 
" common crime.' " In Lord Bathurst's letter to the 
governor of Demerara, of the 25th of February 
last;, he says, '" In the event of the owner and the 
"^ slave not agTeeing in the price of the slave's 
" manumission^ the owner shall appoint one, the 
^'^ protector of slaves another, and an umpire shall 
^' be appointed by the chief judge." '^ It is clear that 
*' an arbitration on such a principle would protect the 
" interests of the owner ; and, if there were any 
" objection, it would be that the bias was in his 
'' favour." — Without stopping to canvas this last 
assertion, I shall just observe that I cannot compre- 
hend by what process of reasoning it can be sup- 
ported, as the protector of slaves and the chief 
judge hold their appointments at the pleasure of 
the colonial department, the head of which has ex- 
pressed his wish to promote and facilitate manu- 
missions ; and a more effectual mode of gratifying 
that wish than naming as arbitrators and umpires, 
persons known to think unfavourably of colonial 
property, I cannot conceive. I shall assume that 
the arbitrators are qualified and impartial, and even 
that they make a just award according to Lord 
Bathurst's principle, which he explains to be 
** a fair estimate of the loss which the owner may 
" sustain." I shall suppose that the two first ne- 
gToes who apply for manumission in Demerara be- 
long to adjoining estates, the one estate rich soil, 
and the other poor, from a sand reef or any other 
cause, (and such cases of inequality* are not unusual) : 

'*' Besides tlie very coniraon inequality of soil, there is a great dif- 
ference in the value of estates from other causes. The Avorks and 
buildings of a sugar estate are worth mufh more than the works and 
buildings on coflee or cotton plantations. 



24 

the estate with rich soil has just sufficient strength 
for its cultivation^ whilst the other is overhanded. 
When the difference of the soil and strength are 
taken into consideration^ it will be found, although 
the two negroes are in themselves of precisely the same 
value in every respect, that the slave belonging to 
the plantation with rich soil will have to pay much 
more than the other. I shall suppose double; say, 
for the former case, £400; and for the latter, £200. 
The owner who has to receive the £400 is not 
treated more liberally than his neighbour, who has 
only to receive £200: but what will be the feeling 
and opinion of the negro, who has to pay the £400? 
Will he acquiesce in the justice of the award ? 
What will be the opinion and feelings of all the 
other slaves on the same property ? Will they work 
cheerfully for their master, and will they also labour 
cheerfully for themselves, to acquire double the 
amount that their brethren on the adjoining planta- 
tion would require to purchase freedom ? The an- 
swer is obvious. The result would be general and 
well-grounded dissatisfaction. The owner would 
soon find that the £400 would be no compensation to 
him ; indeed, that no money could make amends for 
the exasperated and discontented feelings of his 
negroes. Let me, however, proceed a little further 
wdth Lord Bathurst's principle of compensation. 
Suppose, for the sake of argument, that the negroes 
would quietly and contentedly submit to the in- 
equality of the price of manumission, the work of 
emancipation would not make much progress. After 
a certain number of manumissions, the slaves re- 
maining would be reduced to the number without 
which the profitable cultivation could not be carried 
on ; consequently all attempt at purchasing freedom 
must be vain, as the compensation to the masters 
would be nothing short of the whole value of the 
estate. To deprive a planter of any negroes after 
the strength of his estate has been reduced to 
the lowest number with which sufficient produce 



^5 

could be raised to defray expenses, and leave some 
return to the proprietor, would be to deprive him 
of the entire value of his property. Before the pro- 
gress of emancipation is traced to this stage, it must 
be evident, on the least reflection, that the price «f 
manumissions must increase according, and in pro- 
portion to their number; which is a fatal objection to 
Lord Bathurst's principle, as it is impossible to com- 
pensate the owner for the discontent engendered 
in the minds of his slaves by their knowing that the 
price would thus rise on them. Another disadvantage 
of a serious character would accrue to the proprietor 
of a valuable estate. It has long been customary, 
when sales of slaves take place, to respect their 
repugnance to any particular person, as well as to 
gratify them when it can be done, by selling them to 
those whom they prefer ; but should the price of 
manumission be regulated by the value of the estate 
to which a negro is attached, as well as by his own 
value, no proprietor of a productive property would 
be able to purchase slaves who would willingly go to 
him. No principle of appraisement that does not 
combine justice to the slave and to the owner, can 
ever secure a fair compensation to the planter. It is 
self-evident that if the price which a slave has to 
pay for his freedom is to depend upon the produc- 
tiveness of the estate to which he may belong, and on 
his own individual value from bodily strength, intelli- 
gence, and faithfulness, that his interest is opposed 
to that of his master, and that his ingenuity will be 
exerted to diminish his own value, as well as that of 
his master's estate. Lord Bathurst, in his despatch 
to the governor of Demerara of the 25th Feb. last, 
already alluded to, has laboured hard to meet the 
difficulties urged by the court of policy ; he says^ 
'' The principle of manumission will proceed on pre- 
" sumptive evidence of the slave having acquired 
'' habits of industry which may fit him for an inde- 
" pendent existence, while it will secure to the 
"' owner that compensation to which it may be found 



26 

" by experience^ as the measure advances in opera- 
" tion^ he will be fairly entitled ; and it is by ex- 
" perience alone that this can be ascertained." So 
the planter is to gnve up his property en " presumptive 
'' evidence/' and to trust to " experience" for com- 
pensation ! I consider all such loose reasoning as 
vain attempts to screen the country from pa3dng- for 
the '^ opening- by which slavery may escape *." If the 
nation honestly desires to make this " opening/' 
means may be devised for effecting it, " compatible 
'^^ with the well-being of the slaves^ with the safety of 
^' the colonies^ and with a fair and equitable conside- 
'^ ration of the interests of private property;" but 
the nation must not shrink from its share of the ex- 
pense. I hold it to be beyond the reach of human 
ingenuity to achieve " compulsory manumission/' 
with justice to the planter and slave, except by 
an honest contribution on the part of the country. 
I am not so presumptuous as to imagine that the plan 
I shall take the liberty of suggesting is free from 
objection^ but I believe I am not too sanguine in 
thinking that it is wholly divested of the glaring in- 
justice and inconsistencies inherent in that proposed 
by Lord Bathurst. The grand object manifestly is 
to reconcile the interests and feelings of both the 
masters and slaves — any measure failing in this must 
be palpably defective in application. I conceive that 
a near approach would be made to that happy con- 
summation by fixing a sum^ as the value of each 
description of slave^ not to be altered or affected by 
any consideration of strength, skilly or character, but 
to be regulated entirely by the nature of the occupa- 
tion and age of the slave. For instance, the popula- 
tion of a West India estate is composed of boilers, 

* Lord Batliurst admits that the time may come for the interference 
of " individual benevolence," and the state to make up the deficiency 
between what the slave may be able to earn and what the ownermay 
lose ; but this admission only confirms my opinion, as compulsory 
manumission ought not to have been proposed without the accom- 
paniment of a compensation fund. 



37 

coopers, carpenters^, tradesmen of various other de- 
scriptions, and field negroes. Let a price be fixed for 
eacii of these classes (and of any other class into 
which the slave population of the colonies may be 
divided), according- to age. A table of these parti- 
culars might be made public in each colony, and thus 
obviate all doubt. Whenever a slave could produce 
the sum attaching to his class and age, as the fruits 
of his or her honest industry, but not otherwise, the 
slave should be entitled to demand freedom on the 
payment thereof, and the owner should be obliged to 
grant it, after having had such slave appraised accord- 
ing to Lord Bathurst's principle of compensation for 
the actual loss, and having been paid the difference 
between suoh appraisement and the sum received 
from the slave. This difference to be paid by the 
British nation. If the slaves thus manumitted will 
work for reasonable hire, as has been contended, the 
national sacrifice will be inconsiderable ; and if they 
will not so work, it is fit that the nation should pay 
for the experiment. By Lord Bathurst's principle, 
the slaves would have a temptation to diminish their 
value. By my plan, they would have every induce- 
ment to behave well and to improve themselves, be- 
cause every step in improvement would be an addi- 
tional facility in acquiring the means of purchase. 
For this marked and inestimable distinction the nation 
ought to pay most cheerfully, provided the professions 
in favour of the slave be sincere, As the value of 
slaves throughout the colonies is not the same, it 
would of course be necessary that the prices fixed for 
each class of negroes should be regulated according 
to the peculiar circumstances of each colony. It is 
also obvious that my plan could not come into full 
operation at once, and that even when it did it 
would not be so perfect as to bid defiance to cavil, or 
even to reasonable objection ; for I am not bhnd to 
some points susceptible of improvement. All that I 
venture to believe is, that it is the best that has yet 
been offered. In the equitable arrangement of prices 



28 

of manumissions^, and in the mode of ascertaining' 
the fair compensation to the planters, there will 
doubtless be many difficulties to overcome. 

Having- laid before you the proceedings of the 
Colonial Department, and pointed out some of the 
bearings of these proceedings, I now^ request your 
attention, on constitutional considerations, to the dan- 
ger that will ensue if you confer on them the autho- 
rity of parliamentary sanction. The rights of pro- 
perty^ v^^hich are vested in the planters, have been 
placed by a nobleman* more distinguished for his 
rank and private virtues, than for his legal know- 
ledge, on a footing with those of receivers of stolen 
goods; but an author has been found to deny to 
the planters even the respectable f rights so liberally 
conceded by the noble duke, and to assert that, as by 
the " Gospel Dispensation" there can be no such 
state as West India slavery^ there can be no titles, 
yet I beheve I may venture to rely on the national 
faith, pledged vv^ith all the solemnity prescribed by 
the British constitution, and assume that the planters' 
rights are undoubted. No charge has been brought 
against them of having violated any of the condi- 
tions on which the rights were granted ; on the con- 
trary, it is allowed that they have greatly amelio- 
rated the condition of the slaves since this country 
ceased to force supplies on the colonies — indeed, it is 
not pretended that the national guaranty was granted 
to ensure a state of comfort superior to that now en- 

* Duke of Devonshire, at the Derby county meeting. 

■\- " Let us recollect what prodigious ruin one unguarded expres- 
" sion, dropt in tlie heat of debate, may occasion to those whom we 
" would not willingly injure ; while it is at the same time clear that 
" the most ardent and enthusiastic eloquence cannot hasten the en- 
" joyraent of freedom by those who are not yet in a fit state to 
" receive the boon." — Mr. Canning. 

" My fixed opinion is, that those great and desirable objects have 
" been more retarded by the intemperate zeal of those who have 
" been the advocates of such measures, than they had been or could 
" be by any direct opposition on the part of those who have opposed 
" them." — Lord Chancellor's Speech, House of Lords. 



29 

joyed by the slaves. If in these circumstances a 
secretary of state be authorized to persevere in a 
course that may have the effect of lessening in value, 
or of rendering- insecure the property of the planters; 
if he is to be the sole judge of what may produce 
these effects^ is it not evident that the rightSj under 
the most solemn national pledge^ dwindle into rights 
dependent on the will of a secretary of state? It 
would startle you to hear a secretary of state avow 
that property held under acts of parliament was at 
his mercy ; yet Lord Bathurst's proceedings towards 
the colonists have not stopt short of such a declaration. 
He requires the colonists to adopt certain measures 
— they say that the value and security of their property 
would be thereby affected^ and therefore demand a 
pledge of indemnification against loss *. His lord- 
ship thinks the measure will increase both the value 
and security of property, and therefore will not en- 
tertain a proposal respecting indemnity. His lord- 
ship tells the planters that they must sell such parts 
of their property as may be demanded of them, and 
that certain persons shall be the judges of what they 
are to receive in compensation. The planters say 
that they will not sell such parts as may be demanded^ 
that they will only sell such parts as they please, and 
that they will not leave it to the persons whom his 
lordship names, to estimate the value of their pro- 
pert}^ but that they will keep it until they can get 
what they think to be its value — they add, that if 
they were not to be the judges of the parts to be 
sold, they might be deprived of the very parts with- 
out which the rest would be valueless ; the stream 

* " Youv Committee have also learnt from the agent, that in his 

" conference with Ministers, it has been refused to acknowledae our 

, .... . ^ 

" clamis to compensation for the injuries the colonies must sustain 

" in the mere endeavour to carry the scheme of emancipation into 

" eiTect ; by which refusal the Ministers have shewn an inclination 

'' not only to dispose of our property without our consent, but even 

" to violate those common rules of honesty which ought to govern 

" nations as well as private persons." — Report of a Committee to 

the House of Assembly, Jamaica, 11 Dec. 1823. 



80 

that turns the mill — the centre-stone of the arch. 
His lordship replies that thqir argiinnients have had no 
weight, and that he must be obeyed, or he will call 
down on them the vengeance of the King in council 
and of parliament. It is to be observed that his lord- 
ship's measures had undergone no examination be- 
fore parliament; — no committees had sat in anxious 
deliberation ; no witnesses had been examined on 
the probable effects ; no counsel had been heard ; 
in short, not one of the safeguards provided against 
the inroads to be made on private property by half a 
mile of road, abridge, dock, or a tunnel, were thought 
necessary, as only the rights, and property, and lives 
of persons under the displeasure of the public were 
concerned. It is dangerous to establish as a prece- 
dent that whenever the public voice is raised, — what- 
ever be the means or artifices employed for that 
purpose, it is to be obeyed without enquiry, and with- 
out respect for acknowledged rights. When great 
pubhc excitement exists, it is the duty of government 
to be doubly vigilant, whilst going with the stream, to 
steer clear of all encroachments on private property*. 
This caution once neglected, who can say that his 
property will not be the next sacrificed? The con- 
tempt manifested by Lord Bathurst for the rights and 
privileges of the colonists car» be ascribed to nothing 
but a feeling of security, arising from the persuasion 
that the public voice is directed against them. In 
other cases government has souofht the sanction of 
parliamentary committees, or reports ot commis- 
sioners. For instance, the change effected in the law 
of Scotland by the introduction of trial by jury in 
civil cases, although an acknowledged improvement, 
was preceded by a laborious investigation, in the 
course of which every person whose interests jvere 

^ " Let us now (however altered may be the universal feeling of the 
nation) hold the equilibrium fairly^, and deal justly between the parties 
who dealt in slaves, and those who have during so long a period 
encouraged this state of things in our West India Colonies."—' 
Lord Chancellor, House of Lords, Ith March, 1826, 



31 

likely to be atfected, had an opportunity of being 
heard. No important aUeration has been attempted 
either in Scotland or Ireland without similar caution 
and investigation. In England chxumspection is as 
much in fashion : even acts of parliament passed 
for temporary purposes are not allowed to expire 
without enquiry : the Bank Restriction Act of 
1797, which was only intended as a temporary mea- 
sure, and the duration of which beyond two years 
after a general peace was never contemplated, was 
allowed to exist for years afterwards, and was not 
repealed until a full examination of every party and 
interest before committees of both Houses of Parlia- 
ment. The corn laws may be adduced as another 
precedent for caution. The very advocates for them 
have long been satisfied that they are bad, but it has 
never been suggested by the wildest theorist that 
they ought to be abolished without enquiry. So far 
from that, the government sent a gentleman supposed 
to be well qualified, to the continent, for the express 
purpose of collecting information, and both Houses 
of Parliament will have been in possession of the in- 
formation for months before the discussion, and 
before any thing is actually determined, there will be 
committees of both houses, and witnesses examined 
from different parts of the country. That such ex- 
treme caution is not superfluous, one example from 
the proceedings of the present year will prove. His 
Majesty's ministers had expressed themselves in 
strong terms on the justice, and, indeed, indispensable 
necessity of placing the Scotch and English banks on 
the same footing respecting small notes. The Prime 
Minister had said that without such uniformity the 
Bank of England would have to keep specie for all 
the Scotch banks, without any remuneration, and the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer had gone so far as to 
declare, that without such uniformity he would not 
envy the situation of any future Chancellor of the 
Exchequer; but when the subject was investigated 
before a committee of the House of Commons, the 



32 

Chancellor of the Exchequer himself joined the ma- 
jority in voting against that uniformity. 

It will scarcely be said after Mr. Canning's de- 
scription of the importance and difficulty of the West 
India question^ that it deserved or required less cau- 
tion^ consideration^ and enquiry^ than the subjects 
which I have just enumerated ; and, therefore, I 
presume, now that there has been time for reflection, 
that no further proceedings will be adopted without 
the fullest and fairest investigation of the claims of 
the planters. If his Majesty's government will con- 
sent to be as cautious for the next three years, as 
Lord Bathust^ in their names, has been precipitate 
for the last three, they will make some amends 
to the colonists, and accomplish their object in a more 
effectual manner than by harshness and temerity. 
Mr. Canning, as the organ of administration 
in the House of Commons, has uniformly treated 
the question as one requiring time and caution ; 
and deprecated the interference of parliament on 
any pretext short of contumacy. The subjoined 
extracts* will demonstrate that the conduct of the 



* '' The leo-islature of the Bahamas have evinced their anxiety for 
" the improvement of the condition of the slaves, by their late act 
" for amending- and consoHdating the slave laws, which it is impoy- 
" sible not to view as comprising many humane and judicious enact- 
" ments materially contributing to such improvement." — Lord Ba- 
thurst to the Governor of the Bahamas, 14th Aug. 1824. 

" Although after a full consideration of the Grenada act, I can- 
" not but be sensible that it falls short of what has been recommend- 
"^ ed, yet it deserves to be considered as an important improvement 
" of the existing code. Its provisions are all of a beneficial nature 
" as far as they go, and contain nothing that can stand in the way 
•' of its confirmation. Where the enactments are deficient, either in 
" defining or securing their object, there is a manifest good inten- 
" tion, which assures me, that these inadvertencies will be readily 
"^corrected."' — Lord Bathurst to thk Governor of Grenada, 20th 
Oct. 1825. 

'" I am convinced, that there is a very sincere desire to do, from 
" time to time, what may appear practicable." — Governor of Ja- 
maica to Lord Bathurst, 24fA Dec. 1824. 



33 

colonists manifests a very different spirit from that 
of contumacy. Wherever a disposition has been 

" The Court of Policy and the inhabitants of this ( olony generally, 
" are heartily disposed to meet the views of his Majesty's governritent 
" with regard to every practicable amelioration of the state of the 
" slave population."— Goyenjor of Demerara to Lord Bafhurst, 
2d April, 1824. 

" From a residence of nearly filteen years in this colony, I am 
" happy to bear testimony to the kind and careful treatment of the 
" slaves by every proprietor here ; and I am highly gratified in be- 
" ing able to state, that many of the improvements suggested by the 
" govei'nment at home, have been already anticipated bj the huma- 
" nity and wisdom of those vvho have legislated for this colony, during 
"' my residence in it." — -Governor of Si. Vincent's to the Speaker 
of the Council. 

" I am happy in being able to assure your lordship, that a very 
" general wish to ameliorate the condition of the slaves, and to inr 
" struct them in the principles of the Established Church, seems to 
" pervade the great mass of the proprietors, and every facility is af-r 
forded of visiting the several plantations." — Bishop of Jameiica to 
Lord Bathursf, I2th March, 1825. 

" I have the highest satisfaction in being able to assure your lord- 
" ship, that the same good feelings which I had the pleasure to cora- 
" municate upon a former occasion, with regard to Kingston, conti- 
" nues to animate every part of this island which I have hitherto 
" visited. Mr. Ai-chdeacon Pope and myself have just completed a 
" progress through all the pai'ishes, except two : a detailed account 
" of all ecclesiastical matters which came under our notice, shall be 
" forwarded to your lordsliip as soon as I am furnished with all the 
" necessary particulars from the clergy. The general result of our 
" observations has been a hearty desire on the part of the proprietors 
" generally, or their representatives, cheerfully to promote, as far 
^' as their limited means will allow, any measures which I have 
^' thought it my duty to suggest for the benefit of the church, Pub-. 
^' lie meetings" have been called in many parishes, and private sub- 
^' scriptions are entered into, to promote the same desirable object." 
— Bishop of Jamaica to Lord Bathurst, ]6tk March, 1825. 

'' I have the honour to inform your lordship, that on visiting the 
" several islands within my diocese, I was received tliroughout with 
" every mark of pubhc and private respect, accompanied with the 
" assurance on the part of the respective legislatures and proprietors, 
" of theii readiness to co-operate with me, to the utmost extent of 
" their means, in the measures which I had the honour to propose," 
— -Bishop of Barbadoes to Lord Bathurst, 1th Oct. 1825. 

" I trust that your lordship will regard this liberal grant as a fur- 
^' ther proof of the good disposition existing in the island of Barba. 
^' does (and I may with truth add, in every oth^r island witliiti my 

O 



34 

evinced to delay compliance with the -wishes of 
government to as great an extent as would be 
consistent with a due regard to safety and the rights 
ofproperty^ that disposition may in eyiei^. instance be 
attributed to Lord Bathiirst's inconsiderate and 
unconciliating despatches of the 12th of June^, and 
9th of July, 1823, on which I have already offered 
remarks. 

The course which I humbly suggest is, a par- 
liamentary declaration to the effect that there is no 
intention to deny the rights and privileges of the 
colonists— that before the adoption of any measures 
affecting their interests, the fullest and most impartial 
investigation will be allowed • that parliament is 
sensible that the condition of the slaves has been 
ameliorated of late years ; that there is, therefore, a 
well grounded expectation that the planters will 
introduce the ameliorations recommended by his 
Majesty's government, with as little delay as is 
consistent with a due regard to the safety of the 
colonies. That in regard to the question of per- 
mitting the slaves to purchase their freedom without 
the consent of their owners, nothing should be 
pressed on the colonists until the important subject 
has undergone the fullest investigation in the way 
best calculated to do justice to all parties. Such a 
declaration would conciHale the colonists, and incline 
them to do every thing in their power to consult the 
wishes of government. Indeed, I might venture to 
predict, that in less than three years it would be 
found that the substance of every important measure 
in the Trinidad order in council would be found in 
the codes of the other colonies, save and except the 
provisions of the forty -second clause, which are more 
adverse to the spirit of the present day than any of 
the laws denounced by Mr. Wilberforce, as expressed 
in characters of blood ; and except, also, the clause 

*' diocese), to extend and place on a more effectual footing the seve- 
" ral means of religious instrriction." — Bishop of Barbadoes to 
Lord Bafhiirst, 5th Nov. 1825. 



S6 

sanctioning- manumission against the consent of the 
owner. Should my prediction be verified^ of which 
I have not the shadow uf a doubt^ the question for 
your consideration would be narrowed to that of 
*' compulsory manumission ;'' and that question is of 
such vital interest, that time ought to be allowed 
for the fullest consideration, and the most extended 
enquiry. You will be pleased to bear in mind that this 
measure has been brought forward without any proof 
that slaves who acquire their freedom through habit;-: 
of industry, find in any reasonable wages sufficient 
inducement to continue industrious. All past ex- 
perience is at variance with the presumption that 
any rate of hire^ however high, will overcome their 
repugnance to labour*. To compel them to w 
would require a system of coercion far more gal 
than a state of slavery. Without coercion^ th 
manumitted would soon sink into a state of indole^ 
and barbarism. But for argument, let us supp* 
that when slaves become enlightened and buy th« 
freedom with the earnings of their industry, th 
will work for wages. They would naturally strive i* 
obtain high wages, and the example of this countr} 
would furnish them with the means. When workmen 

* " With respect to free labour, he must say, that from all the 
"^ information he had received upon the subject, he could not point 
" out one instance in which the experiment of an alteration from 
" compulsory to free labour had been fairly tried and succeeded : 
" indeed, he knew many instances in which that experiment had 
" failed." — Lord Bathursfs Siieech, House of Lords, 16th March, 
1824. 

" As to the free negroes, it appears, that their industry is still 
" more sparing : of their repugnance to all sorts of labour, the most 
" ample evidence is produced in the Report of the Committee of 
" Privy Council, in 1788," — Brougham on Colonial Policy. 

" I must be allowed to suspect, that before we people the unset- 
" tied colonies with negroes who will work for hire, we must disco- 
" ver a new race of Africans, industrious in their own country, or 
" invent some method of operating instantaneously upon the tribes 
" already kno^Yn : an enlargement of desires and a change of ha- 
" bits, which in the natural progress of human society, is the slow 
'' produce of many succeeding ages." — Brougham on Colonial 
Policy. 



36 

in this country know that their masters have Jarge 
orders to execute within a particular time^ they 
immediately demand an increase of wages propor- 
tioned to what they know to be the necessity for 
their assistance. Masters endeavour to conceal from 
their workmen the extent of the orders they receive. 
In the West Indies concealment would be impos- 
sible, as the negroes would see when the various 
crops of sugar, coffee, and cotton, were in a state to 
occasion total loss through failure of assistance, and 
they would not neglect the opportunities to refuse to 
work without excessive wages. In this country men 
cannot long abstain from work; they must pay for 
food, clothing, and lodging. In the West Indies the 
calls for money would not be equally urgent. All 
absolute wants could be supplied with little trouble ; 
and the planters would be left at the mercy of the 
free negroes. Under such circumstances no estate 
would be worth two years' purchase. With such 
possibihties in prospect, it is not surprising that the 
planters should be opposed to the opening of any 
other door to let out slavery than that which is now 
open, and through which there is a gradual escape. 
In Jamaica the manumissions are said to have been 
four thousand, between the years 1820 and J 823; 
and in the beginning of the present year, there were 
upwards of one hundred voluntary manumissions in 
Demerara. It will probably be found on examining 
the question, that any larger opening would be in- 
compatible " with the well-being of the slaves them- 
" selves, with the safety of the colonies, and with a 
^' fair and equitable consideration of the rights of pri- 
'' vate property." 

THE END. 



W. WILSON, PRINTER, 57, SKINNER-STREET, J.ONPON, 



