Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library/ The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/haveslaveholdersOOcoff 



(No. II,) 



SLAVE-HOLDERS 



RIGHT TO BE COMPENSATED, 



©tprtbrt of tfje Wotott 



TO CONTINUE TO 



STEAL MEN'S PERSONAL LIBERTY. 



DUBLIN: 

PRINTED BY RICHARD D. WEBB, 10, WILLIAM-STREET, 
FOR THE NEGRO'S FRIEND SOCIETY- 

1830. 



r&s.*/^'^ W6 ' !3 






HAVE THE SLAVE-HOLDERS ANY 
RIGHT TO BE COMPENSATED, 
FOR BEING DEPRIVED OF THE 
POWER, &c. 



It often happens that subjects in themselves 
most simple, are so entangled by human wicked- 
ness as to perplex even the best of men. Such is 
the subject to which we now address ourselves. 

The question in its entangled state is, " What 
compensation would be due to the slave-holders in 
our Colonies, if their slaves were emancipated by 
law?" 

In this form, the wisest men have stumbled at 
it — many of the best have been perplexed, and so 
serious is the difficulty which it presents, that not 
having been yet able to solve it to our satisfaction, 
we deliberately go on keeping upwards of 800,000 
of our fellow-men in the most unjust and cruel 
bondage, and cruelly slaughtering thousands of 
them year by year. 

^vere the question simplified, and offered to 
us in its proper character, what upright mind could 
hesitate ? Thus, " What compensation would be 
due to white men, if, by wise and equal laws, they 
^were prevented from continuing to rob unoffend- 



4 

/ ing black men of their inalienable rights to security 

; in person and property ; and from insulting and 

degrading them with impunity ; and from buying 

and selling and treating them like blocks and 

brutes ?" 

Would not universal human feelings, and feel- 
ing as right as it was universal, cry out with one 
voice, " None — no compensation would be due to 
the white men ; except it were the punishment 
^ meet for their crimes ?" 

But our object here is rather to refute sophistry 
on its own grounds, than to call it over to ours. 
Let us therefore look at the question as the friends 
of slavery might present it : 

" What compensation would be due to the slave- 
holders in our Colonies, if their slaves were eman- 
cipated by law ?" 

What is meant by " emancipated ?" It simply 
means, " being made free — not lawlessly^ but law- 
fully." 

It does not mean being emancipated from law, 
or from any rightful authority, but merely being 
made free from iniquitous and despotic power. 

It does not mean that in lieu of remaining in his 
present state, with all law against him, and no effi- 
cient law in his favour, the black man should be 
placed on the antipodes of his present state, and be 
made free from all law. 

It does not mean that the white man should be 
deprived of any just right which he may have to 
the black man's services. 



But it does mean that the white man should be 
deprived of all his iniquitous rights, which in fact 
are wrongs, and which are at once a snare of the 
most ruinous description to himself, an entangle- 
ment of destruction to the poor oppressed black 
man, and a blot of the deepest dye upon his country. 

It does mean that the white man should be de- 
prived of his nefarious rights — 

To imprison, beat, scourge, wound, sell, plun- 
der, bereave of his wife and children, tear from his 
house and home, and exclude from instruction, the 
black man, — at every emotion of his own caprice, 
without any regard for equity, or restraint from 
law, and of the doubly destructive right to depute 
these atrocious powers to others, even of the vilest 
description. 

But it is said, " If this were enacted, however 
just it might be in itself, and however honorable 
to the country, still the masters would be losers, 
and as tliey have been so long abetted in their 
guilt by the nation, the nation which has shared m 
their crime, ought also to share in their loss. 

Now admitting this for the present, the next 
thing is fairly to ascertain what the master's loss 
would be. 

What is it which constitutes the value of the 
slave to the master ? 

It is simply his labour — the labour that can be 
got out of him. 

This is the value, and the only fundamental va- 
lue of the slave to the master. 



6 

How will this be affected by the emancipation 
spoken of ? 

What will be the change produced ? 

It will not be that the slaves will be estranged 
from the estates, for the slaves may be bound to 
the estates, somewhat in the same manner as the 
emancipated negroes of Hayti were by Toussaint. 

It will not be that the negroes will be let loose 
from all authority; this would be anarchy, not 
freedom; for every security which wisdom can 
demand, and power yield, is within our reach, and 
of course would be enacted. 

It will not be that any unrighteous authority 
will be interposed between the master and his la- 
bourers, giving his labourers a license to idleness 
and disorder ; for the equitable laws of their coun- 
try would be extended impartially over both, and 
as punctiliously secure the right and wholesome 
rights of the master as of the labourer. 

But it will simply be the change of a slave into 
a subject — of an oppressed, into a righted man— of 
a forced into a willing labourer. It will be substi- 
tuting the labour of a man for the labour of a beasts 

The slave is held and driven like a beast, or a 
machine : the power of mind is sacrificed and ali- 
enated : the perishing body, with its measure of 
muscular force, is there, and the scourge drives it 
on to toil. But the indignant mind, not less bit- 

* Here we leave out of view that comp iratively small and 
wretched class of slave masters who have no estates, but who hire 
out their slaves, and live upon their wages. 



terly indignant because oppressed and insulted, 
holds back : the driver marks the unwillingness, 
and keenly applies the lash: the recoiling mind 
plunges deeper and deeper into its own ever un- 
searchable recesses, and the hoe falls less and less 
efficiently upon the cane-field from its arm : the 
lash goads deeper — the mind more deeply recoils : 
the limit comes — the contest i unequal, and the 
slave perishes.* 

But now, according to our supposition, the slave 
is no longer a slave — he is a subject, a servants-one 
law is over him and his master — all right is no 
longer on one side, and all wrong on the other : 
but both have their rights, and the rights (the right 
rights) of both, are equally secured by the wisdom 
and by the power of their country. 

He who was a forced, is now a willing labourer : 
the fruits of his toil are his own ; hope is revived 
in his breast ; mind brings all its force to the field, 
and what the master never could get from the slave, 
he gets without a struggle from the freeman — the 
rich and pleasant benefit of voluntary labour. The 
toil of the emancipated man is at once greatly less 
laborious to himself, and much more productive to 
his employer. 

* The master is also generally ruined, then, like an idiot, won- 
ders whence came the ruin which his own crazy despotism has 
produced. It can be shown from facts, and the simplest calcula- 
tion founded on those facts, that the slave-masters in Jamaica 
alone, within the last one hundred and forty years, have destroyed 
of their own property, by the destruction of their own slaves, about 
one hundred millions of pounds sterling, 



The master's profits are enereased, and what 
compensation does he want ? 

Does he want compensation because his labour- 
ers, instead of being killed off year after year, are 
encreasing ? 

Does he want compensation because his estate is 
rendered more productive to him than it was be- 
fore? 

Why, he should give compensation. The be- 
nefit would be worth a large purchase. 

But how are his profits increased ? 

If this be indeed the case, the master ought to 
pay, instead of be4ng paid, for the measure which 
should emancipate his slaves. 

How are his profits increased f 

1. The expenses of keeping slaves are done 
away, viz. 

These indeed, except the last, 
in general are but poorly and 
very inadequately supplied by 
the slave masters. But incom- 
petent as they are for the poor 
slaves, they form a very heavy 
expense to the masters. The 
Rev. Mr. Bickel estimates the 



Clothing, 

Food or Land, 

Physician, 

Medicine, 

Hospital, 

Driving, 



whole at about £6 per year for 
each slave. 



With free labourers they would be entirely 
saved. 

2. The preservation of the negroes. 

In Jamaica the rate of destruction of slave life 
is somewhat upwards of one in a hundred yearly, 



9 



and the average price of a slave may be then stated 
at £50. This would be saved on every hundred 
negroes. 

3. The negroes would multiply. This is inva- 
riably the case in all our Colonies with the free 
negroes, and with the increase of labourers the 
price of labour would be diminished, and the value 
of the land encreased. 

4. This is thoroughly ascertained to be vastly 
less laborious to the labourer, and about three times 
more profitable than slave-labour to the master. 

5. The master would be saved from the over- 
whelming snares of arbitrary power. These gene- 
rally disorganize or extinguish the moral sense, 
and produce a state of licentiousness amongst the 
masters, as base as impure, and as cruel as it is 
proud and destructive. 

6. The slave would be saved from the unavoid- 
able pollutions, sufferings, and degradation of a 
state of slavery, and the master would be saved 
from the dreadful recoil of ignorance and degrada- 
tion, wherever it shall find an opportunity to break 
loose. 

7. The master and the nation would be saved 
the additional taxes for naval and military defence, 
which the craziness and cruelty of the slave system 
continually demands. 

8. The cry of the blood of oar slaughtered bre- 
thren would cease to rise against us ; and eternity 
alone would fully display the extent of the curse 
brought down on the head of the oppressor, by the 



10 



cry against him of those whom he would not cease 
to oppress. 

9. The expense of all unnecessary labourers 
would be saved. 

And why now do not, — why will not the slave 
proprietors emancipate their slaves ? 

Not because it would diminish their profits, for 
it would clearly increase their profits. 

Not because it would involve any danger, for it 
is out of nature that a righted and christian man 
should be so dangerous as an oppressed and insulted 
one ; and this is eminently true of the western 
Africans. 

Not because it would be dishonorable, for it would 
be most honorable. 

Not because it would be sinful, for all the sin 
lies in continually wronging and oppressing their 
brother men. 

But because the gratification of its passions is 
the dearest of all things to the human mind. 

Because the possession of slaves aifords a thou- 
sand gratifications of passion not otherwise pos- 
sible. 

Because the possession of despotic power inflates 
and hardens the heart, and the heart thus hardened 
and inflated, clings to its despotic right, to those 
horrible gratifications, with a grasp of death. 

To the mind in such a posture, what js interest ? 
what is honor ? what is the law of God ? what are 
the unalterable rights of man ? Pride has been ac- 
customed to range in it ; and pride must be grati- 



11 

fied. All the abominations of the flesh are there, 
and the tyrants of the tyrant, and he bows down 
beneath them with all the obsequiousness of the 
most degraded slave, while, with the brass of the 
rebel, he defies even holier power. He has long 
given himself up to work all iniquity, with greedi- 
ness — his voluntary sin has seared his soul. — In his 
vocabulary, evil is called good, and good evil, and 
who is God that he should obey Him, or his bro- 
ther man who is poor and oppressed, that he should 
be just and kind to him ? Alas ! that God should 
be his judge ! and that the day is coming like a 
whirlwind, when black and white, and rich and 
poor, and strong and weak, will make no difference, 
but all alike partake the righteous judgment of 
God! 

Other reasons are : — 

Because the slave proprietors very seldom have 
full charge of their own estates. 

Because the persons actually in charge of the 
estates have generally no more than an annual or 
harvest interest in them. 

Because the interests of these agents are alto- 
gether involved in the perpetuation of the slave 
system. 

Because it is one of the most difficult things in 
the world for a distant proprietor to disentangle the 
accounts of an artful agent. 

Because few men have energy enough to expose 
themselves to the sneers and the violences of proud 
and bold and wealthy and cultivated wickedness» 



12 

And because all that an individual could do alone 
against an organized and mighty system of wicked- 
ness, would necessarily be more or less paralized 
by the dreadful influences around him ; and except 
his eye were single, and his trust in God only, his 
best expectation might be disappointed. 

What then is the remedy ? 

God proclaims it. 

Ephes. iv. 28.— Let him that stole steal no 
more. 

Isai. i. 16. 17. — Cease to do evil. Learn to do 
well. 

Isai. Ixviii. 6,—- Loose the bonds of wickedness, 
undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, 
and break every yoke. 

Do unto others as ye would they should do unto 
you. 

1 John, iv. 21.— And this commandment have 
we from Him, that he who loveth God love his 
brother also, 

1 John, iii. 14. — For he that loveth not his bro- 
ther abideth in death. 

And in what possible sense can a man be said to 
love his brother, who is an incessant thief of his 
brother's possessions, even his personal liberty, and 
who lives and riots upon the plundered fruits of 
his brother's toil. 



M 



