/ 



%ttttxs 



NECESSITY OF A PROMPT EXTINCTION 



OF 



BRITISH COLONIAL SLAVERY; 



CHIEFLY ADDRESSED 



TO THE MORE INFLUENTIAL CLASSES. 



WHATSOEVER THY HAND FINDETH TO DO, DO IT WITH 
ALL THY MIGHT." 



TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 

THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

SECOND EDITION. 

LONDON: 
SOLD BY HATCHARD AND SON, PICCADILLY, 

AND BY 

T. COMBE AND SON, LEICESTER. 

MDCCCXXVr. 



^^%y.S7 M'?' 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

Since the prospectus of the following work was issued, its 
title and contents have undergone considerable alter- 
ation^ consequent upon the change produced in some 
of the writer's views of the subject, by a correspondence 
with one of the most able and devoted leaders of the 
Anti-slavery Society. From this privilege however, it 
is feared that the following pages will evince that the 
writer has profited but very partially. 



Tkomas Combe andSon^ Printers, Leicester. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



LETTER I. 

To the Great Leaders of the Anti-Slavery Society. 
West Indian slavery essentially the same at the present mo- 
ment as before the issue of the Orders in Council, &c. p. 1... 
Inadequacy of the remedy proposed by gradual emancipation. 4.. . 
Fundamental principle lost in the proposition of gradual emancipa- 
tion. 7... Injurious effects of delay. 8. ..Wretched consequences 
of the admission of just principles without a prompt conformity to 
their requisitions ilhistrated in the conduct of France respecting the 
slave-trade. 10.. Investigation of the conduct of emancipated slaves 
in America, &c. 13. In St. Domingo. 15.. . Safety and expediency 
of immediate emancipation the inevitable result of this investigation. 
, . Preparatory school of discipline unnecessary and impracticable 21 . 

LETTER II. 

To those who are tired of the subject of West Indian Slavery. — p. 25. 

Declension of Anti-slavery zeal where least to be expected 27.. . 
Necessity of pressing this " trite and hackened subject." still more 
closely on the public attention. 28.. .Awful responsibility incurred 
by acquaintance with its nature and consequences. 29. ..Danger 
of trifling with known duty. 30... Dives and Lazarus. 32. 

LETTER III. 

To the more Influential Classes of the Christian Public, .p. 37. 

Necessity of bringing christian sympathy and principle into more 
vigourous operation 37.. .Reproachful disproportion between the 
evil of slavery and the efforts hitherto made for its destruction. 39. 
t .Folly of expecting its destruction without the strenuous exertion 
of rational means. 40.. .Tropical Free Labour Company. 41 . .Im- 
mediate emancipation required on the ground of Divine command. 
42 . . As explicit in the case of the Negro slave as in that of the Israel- 
ites under Egyptian bondage. 43.. .Inconsistency and hypocrisy of 
reprobating the slave trade whilst we uphold slavery. 45. .Objec- 
tions to the substitution of East for West Indian sugar. 49. .Pro- 
cess of West Indian sugar cultivation. 50.. Its destructive con- 
sequences. 51 . .Criminality of West India sugar consumption. 54. 



CONTENTS. 

LETTER IV. 

On the most efficient means of deepening and extending the public 
interest in the speedy extinction of West Indian Slavery., .p. 54. 
Strict propriety and great importance of employing the chris- 
tian pulpit in the anti-slavery cause. 55.. Peter the Hermit. 
157 . .Picture of West Indian slavery drawn by the Colonists them- 
selves. 58. .The malignant hostility of slavery to Christianity. 62 
..Influence of slavery upon Missionaries, 64 .. Moravians. QQ.. 
Duty of denouncing from the christian pulpit this anti-christian 
tyranny. 68. 

LETTER V. 

On the importance of Associations for the purpose of obtaining the 
cooperation of the humbler classes, p. 69. 

Successful result of personal visits for the purpose of diffusing 
wider information on the nature of slavery. 69. .Advantage of this 
general extension. — Their probable influence on the next general 
Election. 71 . .Resolutions of the Calne Meeting. 75. 
LETTER. VI. 
To the Friends of Immediate Emancipation, p. 7^^ 

Incitements to zeal and courage. 77.. Cautions against spurious 
candour. 78. .Necessity of more numerous and urgent petitions to 
Parliament. 79.. Caution against the imposition of slave-culti- 
vated sugar for the produce of free labour. — Strongly marked 
discouragement of the sale of West India sugar recommended 
79 . . Encouragement to perseverance in the work of emancipa- 
tion from the certain evidence of its accordance with the Divine 
Will. 83. 

THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION, p. 84. 

Misapplication of public sympathy. 86. .Its Injurious effects. 
87. . Claims of the slave - holders to compensation groundless and 
audacious. 89.. On civil and political as well as [moral principles. 
90. .Passions of the Colonists exasperated by all attempts at con- 
ciliation and concession. 92.. Origin of West Indian slavery. 
95 . . Original grants and permissions founded in fraud and false- 
hood. 25. . C/zar^ers all forfeited. 96. .Ultimate advantage result- 
ing to the Planter from emancipation. 98 . .Superior profitableness 
of free to slave labour. 99. . Compensation justly due to the slave 
not to the slave-holder. lOQ. 



LETTER I. 



AN EARNEST APPEAL TO THE GREAT LEADERS OF THE 
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

IN appealing to the great leaders of the Anti-Slaverj^ Society, we 
appeal to the concentrated wisdom and virtue of the nation — con- 
sequently the language of great deference and respect is justly due. 

None can appreciate more justly than we do, the talents and vir- 
tues of those whom we thus presume to address ; their disinter- 
ested, persevering exertions in the great cause of humanity and 
justice are beyond all praise; but no eminence in virtue or talent 
exclude a liability to error; imperfection is inseparable from 
humanity : — the ablest, the wisest, the best men, who in different 
ages have been an ornament and a blessing to society, have been 
partially wise, imperfectly good; on some important point of 
opinion or practice, the most enlightened have been in the dark ; 
the most acute and discerning, deceived ; the most sincere and up- 
right, opposed to the truth. 

In the great conflict of right against might, you have borne the 
heat and burden of the day ; you have stemmed the strong torrent 
of West-India interest and prejudice ; you have rowed hard against 
wind and tide, "toiled all the night and (have, as yet) taken 
nothing." Ask yourselves why the persevering exertion of so 
much zeal, of so much talent, in a cause so just and so righteous, 
should have been so little availing. 

The appalling "view of Negro slavery existing in the British 
Colonies," drawn up and circulated by your Committee, in April, 
1823, is circulated again 1825 ! Had any important change, any 
change worth noticing taken place in the system, it would of course, 
as a matter of justice, have been recorded. But notwithstanding 
the petitions to Parliament, for its mitigation and gradual aboli- 
tion; notwithstanding the Orders in Council, and meliorating 
measures, recommended two years ago, to the colonial legislators ; 
still, the " view of Negro slavery," as it exists in 1825, is pre- 
cisely the same as it existed in 1823 — and such, without miracu- 
lous invention, will it, in all human probability, remain to the end 



2 LETTER I. 

of the century — unless some important change be eftected in the 
sentiments and measures of the abolitionists; — unless there be a 
greater agreement between the evil they have exposed, and the 
remedy they propose for it. 

The evil they have exposed is of the most enormous and flagiti- 
ous nature; it involves, according to their own statement, the 
worst crimes which can disgrace, and the severest sufferings which 
can afflict our fellow-creatures; — " It outra^:es everi/ Jf^eeiins[ of 
humanitii^ every recos^nised prhfcipleboth of the British Constitution 
and of the Christian relis^iony The Abolitionists have informed 
us that the objects of their sympathy, have, ''■themselves or their 
parents, been the victims of the slave trade. They were obtained by 
no LAWFUL MEANS, but by the most undiss^nised rapine^ the most 
atrocious fraud. Torn from their homes, from every dear relation 
in life, barbarously manacled, or driven like herds of cattle to the 
sea shore, crowded into the pestilential holds of slave-ships, tran- 
sported to our colonies, where they are branded like cattle with hot 
irons ; — separated and sold without regard to family ties, to the 
highest bidder ; — compelled to labour, night as well as the day, for 
the sole benefit of their owners, from whom they receive no wages ; 
— subjected, for any, or for no offence, at the caprice of their master 
or his delegate, to have their persons shamefully exposed and barbar- 
ously tortured, with the cart whip, an instrument of dreadful severity , 
which cruelly lacerates the flesh of the sufferer; — denied the means 
of les^al redress, even in cases of the most atrocious barbarity, by the 
rejection of their evidence in the Colonial Courts,'' ^c. ^c.^ — There- 
fore, this system of barefaced injustice and merciless oppression, 
is only to be mitigated 2lX\^ gradually abolished!! — What agree- 
ment we ask, is therebetween such promises and such conclusions? 

An impenetrable veil of mystery and delusion seems to envelope 
and screen this enormity from merited and prompt destruction. 
The wisest and the best seem to be withheld from applying to it, 
not their own superior w^isdom and exalted principles merely, but 
that common sense and common justice which govern common 
mortals in their ordinary transactions. On the subject of West- 
Indian slavery a theme in the abstract, so inexhaustibly fruitful 
of eloquent declamation and powerful argument, the wisest and 
the best, when they come to the practical application of their own 
cogent reasonings, seem to reverse their ordinary every day con- 
clusions. '■'No effectual steps (the Abolitionists inform us) have 
yet been taken, since the extinction of the slave trade (eighteen years 
ago) either by this country or the colonists for softening the rigour 
of Negro bondage'' — or for putting an end to " a condition of society, 
which outrages every feeling of humanity, — every recognized princi- 

* See a " Brief View of the Nature and Effects of Negro Slavery," published by 
the Anti-Slavery Society. 



LETTER I. 3 

pie both of the British constitution and the christian religion.** — And 
therefore they still propose only to mitigate and gradually to 
abolish it! ! 

Suffer, we entreat you, the word of serious and earnest remon- 
strance. Compel yourselves to examine afresh, the ground you 
have taken as Gradual Abolitionists, — and see whether it be such 
as affords any rational hope of success ; — see whether it be not 
hollow and treacherous ground, which it is high time to abandon. 
Hollow and treacherous we are confident that it is — and dangerous 
also, — dangerous to your own principles, as well as treacherous to 
the cause you have embraced. The proposition for Gradual 
emancipation is, we are confident, secretly sapping the foundation 
of public virtue, paralizing its resolution, familiarising and recon- 
ciling us to crime; rendering us a nation of hypocrites, — empty 
pretenders to humanity and justice, who expose and reprobate 
crime, not to extirpate but to tolerate and foster it; — who plead, 
for the oppressed and miserable, not to rescue, but to abandon 
them. This pusillanimous proposition is operating like a power- 
ful opiate on our feelings and principles ; — it is neutralizing our 
sympathy, palsying our exertion, and benumbing our charity in 
behalf of the poor Negro like the touch of the torpedo. Without 
the spirit of prophecy we confidently predict that the mitigation 
and o-mc/waZ abolition of West-India slavery will, humanly speak- 
ing, never be obtained; and moreover, that if the great leaders of 
the Anti-slavery Society remain satisfied with no higher aim, they 
themselves, the most enlightened and humane, will find their feel- 
ings and their principles gradually, imperceptibly accommodated, 
like those of the Planters, to the existing state of things ; — the 
wisest and the best, on this trite and hackneyed subject, Avill come 
to have "eyes that see not — ears that hear not — hearts that under- 
stand not.'* Such is the inevitable consequence of tampering with 
conviction; of familiar knowledge of abuses, long acquaintance 
with oppression and cruelty which are only partially and feebly 
resisted. 

If West-India slavery be the monstrous injustice and atrocity 
which you have represented it, with what consistency can 
the friends of humanity and justice tolerate and tamper with it? 

We wish to be temperate, — to reason rather than declaim on a 
business so momentous, — but the mysterious incongruity in the 
language and conduct of the Gradual Abolitionists, seems to 
justify some warmth of remonstrance. Their language has been 
in the highest degree, calculated to rouse and stimulate general 
indignation against slavery. They have represented it as involv- 
ing crimes of the deepest die, as a concentration, — the very focal 
point of all crimes. Consistency requires that the disclosure of its 
enormity should be followed up by determined and unremitting 
exertions for its speedy and utter extinction. — It had been better 



4 LETTER I. 

never to have known the horrors of the system, — than having 
known, to tolerak:e and cherish it. — The exposure of its iniquity, 
so long as it is suffered to exist, only occasions an increase of crime 
and suffering; — an increase of crime in those, who joassively sanc- 
tion, as well as those who actively support it, in as much as sins 
against light and knowledge are greater than those of ignorance : — 
the sufferings of the slaves will be aggravated by the bitter disap- 
pointment of those hopes of redress which the public exposition 
of their wrongs excited, and the rigours of their bondage will be 
increased, so long as gradual emancipation is hanging, in terro- 
rem, over the heads of the planters, who, exasperated by British 
interference and fearing more decided hostility, will determine to 
make the most of their slave property whilst they have it in pos- 
session, by extracting all the advantage they possibly can out of it. 

The work of emancipation, if it be not vigourously pursued, 
had better never have been meddled with. Insurrections have in- 
creased in consequence of the knowledge obtained by the slaves of 
the public sj^mpathy and of the interposition of the British 
Government in their favour ; — they claimed the benefit of that in- 
terposition — and have been massacred or executed, or doomed to 
endure the protracted torture of a thousand lashes — and to labour 
in chains during the residue of their lives for their audacity.! ! \^ 

After all that has been said and written about the shameful de- 
gradation, the enormous wrongs of the poor Negro, what has he 
gained by all our declamation against the atrocious injustice and 
cruelty of which he is the victim ? Worse than nothing. His ty- 
rants have only strengthened their fortifications, and entrenched 
themselves deeper against future attacks, by organizing a powerful 
body of supporters in this country, backed with a capital of two 
millions; whereby the ramifications of the slave-holding interest 
are greatly extended, and the chains of the slave more strongly 
ri vetted. 

" But there must be time allowed for the seed sown in the cause 
of emancipation to take root.'* Yes, but it has had time to take 
root and to bring forth abundantly ; and its produce has been suf- 
fered unprofitably to perish. By the information which has been 
so copiously diffused on the nature and effects of West India sla- 
very, the public sympathy and indignation have been powerfully 
awakened — to no purpose — no right direction has been given to 
them, and they are rapidly subsiding into the most torpid 
insensibility. 

" But great moral revolutions must be effected by slow degrees." 
Why must they ? There is a warmth of feeling and an energy of 
principle awakened by the first powerful conviction of the duty 
and necessity of such revolutions, which would facilitate and ex- 

* See the sentence passed on the Insurgents at Demerara. 



LETTER I. 5 

pedite their accomplishment. But this warmth of feeling and 
energy of principle will gradually subside, if not kept alive by 
those vigorous exertions to which they instinctively prompt ; and 
when they have subsided, the work of reformation will Indeed be 
effected by slow degrees. Reason, humanity, justice, religion in 
such a case as this, all unite in calling for dispatch, not delay. 
To keep up the spirit of an enterprize it must advance, — if it be 
a just and righteous one, the more rapidly the better. 

" But deeply-rooted prejudices are not hastily eradicated ; — long 
established interests, however unjust in their origin, are not violently 
to be destroyed." Why are they not ? Deeply-rooted prejudices, 
the longer they are suffered to grow, will strike their roots the 
deeper; and long-established corrupt interests, ill-gotten or ill- 
retained possessions, are never voluntarily relinquished. The futile 
and audacious claims of the slave-holders to the detention of their 
captives, or to remuneration for their loss, have been often exposed 
and indignantly repelled. It has been proved that the labour of 
the slave, on the lowest calculation of its value, replaces his cost, 
supposing it to have been so high as <£140, in seven years.*^ This 
consideration however, let it ever be remembered, has no bearing 
whatever on the justice of the question. The slave did not sell 
himself, — consequently his purchaser has no right to an equivalent 
out of his labour. 

" But the Planter will be ruined by the immediate liberation of 
his slaves." If, by the ruin of the Planter, is meant only his tem- 
porary embarrassment and humiliation, we candidly say " 'tis a 
consummation devoutly to be wished:" — 'tis the natural, the ne- 
cessary means of his correction and improvement, — the only cure 
for his pride and his insolence, his sordid selfishness and hard- 
heartedness. When were long-established habits of robbery, op- 
pression and cruelty abandoned without humiliation and suffering? 
— when was vice cured without punishment ? On the petty robber 
it falls with unsparing hand. Is theft criminal only in the poor? 
Is the Clime cancelled when committed by the rich on the persons 
of the poor? Shall the poor man, who steals a sheep, forfeit his 
life for it ? And shall the rich man who steals his brother, or 
(which is the same thing) detains him in unjust and cruel bondage 
(being stolen) shall he be held guiltless ? Shall he be required to 
make no restitution till restitution be attended with no loss or 
inconvenience? Shall " the stolen captive*' never be reclaimed, — 
the helpless prey never taken out of the hands of the robber, — till 
an equivalent be provided, till no loss accompany the restitution ? 

" But the Planters purchased their slaves, or they obtained them 
by inheritance, and therefore consider them as their rightful pro- 
perty." And can the payment of any sum, for an article over which 

• See « The West Indies as they Are," by the Rev. R. Bickell,p. 245, 



6 LETTER I. 

the seller had no ri^ht, impart any right to the purchaser? Impos- 
sible ! If justice he any thing more than an empty name, — a mere 
nose of wax, which may be moulded and fitted to any face, the hold- 
er of the slave, ichether he obtained him by purchase, or by inherit- 
ance, is as guilty as the original thief. The right of the slave to 
his oivn freedom is inherent in himself \ — He does not lose his right 
because a robber and a tyrant wrest it from him. God made him 
free — and appointed the bounds of his habitation in the wild regions 
of Africa. The wretch who stole him thence, could, by no possible 
means, either acquire, or transmit, the right to jnake a slave of him, 
or to keep him in slavery. He has a right to his liberty : through 
whatever number of transfers the usurpation of it may have passed 
' — his right is undiminished — and so is the crime of withholding it. 

"But of what advantage is it to contend for his right, if he can- 
not obtain it? His possessor will not voluntarily restore it; — the 
law will not compel him, — and the slave himself has no power of 
reclaiming it. ** But though his possessor refuses voluntarily to 
liberate him; — though he be unable to assert his own liberty; 
though British law has hitherto declined to award it — because it 
has never yet been demanded ; — it may yet be had for asking. 
It could not be withheld by the British Government from the 
united claims of humanity, justice and religion, if boldly and per- 
severingly urged. The Abolitionists have hitherto gained nothing 
for their poor clients, because they have asked too little. 

" But immediate emancipation is regarded by the sober and dis- 
passionate, as a wild and impracticable theory, scarcely entitled to 
a serious thought. " — Wild and extravagant as it may appear in 
some quarters, in others, it is rapidly gaining ground — and we 
trust the time is not far distant when this startling proposition will 
cease to alarm the most sober and dispassionate, and be unani- 
mously adopted by every friend of justice and humanity. 

Negro slavery, being, (according to the declared convictions of 
the Gradual Abolitionists) "an outrage of every feeling oflhuma- 
nity, every recognized principle both of the British Constitution and 
of the Christian Religion " — its existence on British ground, must 
be regarded by them as an open mockery of her laws, — an impious 
defiance of her religion ; — they must see it pointing with the finger 
of scorn and derision to her pretended equal administration of 
justice, — her high christian profession ; — writing on her criminal 
courts "Tyranny," — on her christian temples " Hypocrisy;'* — 
displaying with insulting triumph, its broad license to commit 
injustice, robbery and sacrilege, in comparison of which the 
crimes which crowd our prisons and furnish the executioner with 
ceaseless occupation are slight and venial. For a long season the 
public were unacquainted with the real nature of this abomination; 
— it is an infernal birth, which has for ages thriven in darkness; — 
at length it has been dragged to light;— rather, it has with blind 



LETTER I. 7 

and frantic infatuation, obtruded and forced itself into light. The 
frightful monster, with hideous hissings, has darted into public 
view, unfolded its enormous coils, stretched the full length of its 
horrid deformity in broad day-light. It has reared its brazen front, 
displayed its poisonous fangs — and has menaced and defied both 
earth and heaven. ** And shall we suffer it to live to continue its 
ravages, — to taint the moral atmosphere around it with poisonous 
infection, — to blast with pestiferous breath every principle of just- 
ice, humanity and religion within its reach ? Or shall we with 
cruel and imbecile lenity, instead of crushing it at once, condemn 
it to die by inches, doom it to gradual destruction, to lingering 
torments ? You admit that it is worthy of death, that its protracted 
existence is crime and misery, disgrace and infamy. And can crime 
and misery be so soon arrested ? can disgrace and infamy be too 
soon obliterated? Slavery is the one grand impediment to the 
moral renovation both of the Negro and his master. If the slaves 
are kept in bondage for another generation, they will not be at all 
better prepared for freedom than they now are, — nor will their 
tyrants be at all more willing to relinquish their pretended right 
to them. No good reason can be given for suffering slavery in the 
British colonies to exist for another year which cannot be given 
for it existence for interminable ages. 

In the proposition for gradual emancipation there is a manifest 
dereliction of the fundamental principle on which emancipation is 
grounded, a tacit denial of that unqualified right of the slave to free- 
dom on which rest all the justice of his enfranchisement. By ac- 
ceding to his remaining in slavery until he shall be better qualified 
for freedom, or until by a stipulated quantity of labour he shall, 
in a course of years, have worked out or purchased his own free- 
dom, the right of his possessor is recognised to hold him in bond- 
age; and the same sort of reasoning which can justify the with- 
standing his liberty for a year or a day will justify the withholding 
it for ever. 

"But gradual emancipation is defended on the ground of expe- 
diency rather than that of strict justice." But by quitting the 
high ground of justice, for that of expediency, the impregnable 
bulwarks of the cause are surrendered, and its advocates, instead 
of struggling for eternal principles of right, contend for a delusive 
phantom, an ignis fatuus which will perpetually elude their grasp. 
^ ox gradual emancipation, whatever may be said of its expediency, 
will be found utterly unattainable. The proposition has done no- 
thing, and will do nothing but deceive and betray! deceive its in- 
dividual advocates with vain imaginations of the utiUty of their 
labours, and betray the cause of emancipation into the hands of 
its enemies. An emancipation so gradual as would have been at- 

" V/itness the late transactions in Barbadoes and Demerara : Trial of the Missionary 
Smith J language of the Colonists on the receipt of the Orders in Council, &c. 



8 LETTER I. 

tained by a law securing the freedom of all Negro children born 
after a specific time has been sollicited m vain. We are bold 
enough to predict that the solicitation of a law for the prompt and 
complete extinction of slavery would meet a more succesful issue. 
By the last discussion of the question in Parliament, the Planters 
are said to have gained a complete triumph. With insolent au- 
dacity they resist the authority of the British Legislature, and set 
at nought both its recommendations and its laws. They assume 
the control of absolute monarchs, lawless tyrants, — they hold no 
party with justice, make no concession to humanity. They have 
the power and are determmed to surrender no modicum of it to 
treaty or remonstrance. 

Had the best concerted measures for the mitigation and gradual 
abolition of Colonial Slavery been fully acceded to by the British 
Government, and the Colonists, instead of openly resisting, had, 
from motives of policy, appeared to acquiesce; still, they would 
have contrived to evade their operation. No plans of melioration 
or gradual emancipation have any chance of taking effect in such 
a soil. What says the report of Mr. Cooper, after a residence of 
three years on the estate of a Planter, who invested him with full 
authority to improve the condition of his slaves ? " He could do 
nothing. The habits and prejudices of the Colonists, independently 
of their laws, rendered improvement impracticable.'^ What says 
the journal of the martyred missionary Smith? " The (slave) 
system is incapable of improvement, it must be abolished altogether,^* 

The proposition of gradual instead of immediate emancipation, 
has utterly failed as far as regards the conciliation of the Planters, 
they having as vehemently protested against the one as the other. 
The exercise of unlimited power having so completely blinded 
their understandings, hardened their hearts, and subjected them 
to the tyranny of their own lawless passions, that it wuU be found 
far more difficult to subject them, than their slaves, to the restraints 
of reason and justice. If conduct is ever to be regarded as the 
surest test of principle, how high, in the,scale of morals, does the 
poor Negro mount above his Master ! Patience, fortitude, mag- 
nanimity, boundless gratitude to his benefactor, — forgiveness of 
injuries, are his ordinary characteristics:* and, if in spite of the 

• The following anecdote is selected, from many others of a similar character, from 
« The West Indies as they Are." 

** In the city of Kingston, were there are eight or ten thousand slaves, and a greater 
number of free blacks and free people of colour, there was a strong guard kept all the 
hohdays, and fearful rumours were afloat, of the horrid and diabolical intentions of 
the slaves. It was said, that they were all to rise on a certain night, to set fire to the 
city in ten places, and to murder all the white people as they should come out of their 
dwellings. The free blacks and people of colour were also suspected of being in- 
clined to join them. But an incident happened, just before the commencement of 
the holidays, which completely satisfied my mind that all those fears were idle 



LETTER r. 9 

brutal ignorance, the heathen darkness in which his task-master 
would bind him, — he should happily hear and embrace the glad 
tidings of the Gospel — then might the highest professor of rehgion 
look to the slave for practical illustrations of its transforming efficacy. 
What though, whilst forcibly withheld (as the far greater proportion 
of them are) from all knowledge of the true religion, he be justly 
charged with propensities to theft and idleness, — how can such pro- 
pensities, in his circumstances, be regarded as crime ? 

The master commits a theft upon the person of the slave^ in hold- 
ing him in unjust and cruel bondage^ compared to the enormity of 
which, all other thefts are slight and venial ; — and it is preposterous 
to accuse a human being of idleness, from whom every stimulant to 
labour is withheld, but that of the cart-whip ! It is the slave-own- 
ers (generally speaking) far more than the slaves, who have proved 
themselves unqualified for liberty, who stand most in need of coer- 
cion — who are most deficient in religion and morals. The great 
majority not only reject rehgion themselves, but, like the dog in the 
manger, exclude their poor captives from all participation in its 
blessing. With a few honourable exceptions, the evidences are so 

dreams. A fire occurred within fifty yards of my own residence ; it broke out 
about ten o'clock at night, and as I was retiring to my bed-chamber, I heard the 
exclamations of the mistress of the house, crying Fire ! Fire I Soon after the drums 
beat, and the church bell struck out, giving the alarm. I ran up stairs, and from 
a back gallery could clearly perceive the fire, which was very alarming. Though 
I never gave full credit to the rumours of the horrid intentions of the Negroes, 
yet I was somewhat staggered, and hardly knew what to do, being the onjy white 
person in the house. I considered, however, that if the fire was not got under in 
half an hour, it would reach us, and we should be burnt out or perish in the flames ; 
so that if a conspiracy were taking place, I might as well be murdered as burnt ; 
and that moreover, I should have some chance of my life by fighting for it ; so I 
resolved to go out and do my best. Calling therefore my own black servant, and 
arming myself, I proceeded to the conflagration, and found very few whites indeed, 
but many people of colour and blacks, free persons as well as slaves, who were all 
busily employed in carrying water, and otherwise assisting to extinguish the burn- 
ing mass. I remained there till the fire was got under, and I never saw people be- 
have better than the free people of colour and the slaves did. It may be truly said, 
that they saved the city from much damage, for it was in great danger. They pre- 
vented the flames spreading, before the firemen or soldiers arrived at the spot ; for 
as to the few whites who were there, they did little or nothing. Had the slaves 
and people of colour then been inclined to mischief, they had an excellent opportu- 
nity, for there were no armed men to prevent their extending the fire. On the 
contrary, however, they, and they only, put a stop to it, and by so doing, completely 
showed that they were not deserving of the infamous insinuations spread abroad to 
the injury of their character." 

The following anecdote was inserted in a respectable provincial paper, published 
a few weeks since. " When the late Edward Rushton, of Liverpool, early in life, 
was engaged in the sea service, he was one day detached with a boat's crew, of which 
Quimina, a negro, for whom he had contracted a friendship, and whom he had 
taught to read, was one. The boat upset, and Rushton attempted to reach a small 
water cask, a point of safety which Quimina had already attained. The poor Af- 
rican, with a warmth of generosity to which tutored minds would probably have 
been strangers, seeing that his benefactor was too much exhausted to reach the cask, 
pushed it from himself towards him, bade him ' Good bye,' and sunk to rise no 
more." 



10 LETTE;R I. 

palpable of the profligacy and impiety of slave-holders ;— in Barba- 
does and Demerara, these evidences have recently been so infamous- 
ly marked, in their outrage of all law and justice, their mahgnant 
hostihty to religion, their bitter persecution of its ministers, their 
savage and relentless barbarity towards the wretched victims of their 
lawless power, when feebly struggling, not for the recovery of their 
rio-htful possession, but merely for that little dole of charity, that 
modicum of mercy, which the British Government had dealt out to 
them, — that there can be no question in the estimation of impartial 
justice, which of the two parties, the slave or his master, may be 
most safely intrusted with liberty. 

We may as well close our ears and our hearts for ever to the deep 
groans of these 800,000 of our oppressed and abused fellow-creatures, 
as persist in pleading for their gradual emancipation. From the 
■first moment when the justice of their emancipation was admitted, 
every days delay is deducting something from the conviction of its 
duty^ and adding something to the difficulty of its accomplishment. 
Had the Colonists acceded to the mehorating measures recommended 
by the British Government, emancipation (humanly speaking) might 
for ever have been despaired of. For what is the present grand 
opposing plea of the West Indians and their numerous partizans ? 
That their slaves are more contented and happy than the British 
peasantry ; — that emancipation would be cruelty instead of kind- 
ness ! — How then would they exclaim against the aggravated bar- 
barity of emancipation, had the condition of slavery, by the adop- 
tion of the proposed improvements, been rendered still more felicit- 
ous ? The true Friends of emancipation may congratulate them- 
selves that the Colonists have resisted and scouted these same 
meliorating propositions, since their adoption would, in all human 
probability, have been fatal to their object. — At all events, they 
would greatly have retarded it by rendering the duty less obviously 
urgent. 

We have seen in the conduct of France, what has been the result 
of the proposition of gradual abolition^ as applied to the slave trade ; 
— what consequences have followed a full recognition of the princi- 
ples of justice without their immediate adoption, — a distinct avowal 
of guilt without its instant abandonment. The late King of France, 
in the definitive treaty of peace signed in 1814, (after the first fall 
of Bonaparte) admitted that the slave trade was " repugnant to the 
principles of natural justice'''' — and agreed to relinquish it in Jive 
years from the date of this admission ! ! The five years demanded 
by France, and granted by the British Ambassador to continue (or 
rather to create a new slave trade ; for France had not, at that time, 
a foot of ground on the habitable globe to be cultivated by the toil 
and blood of a single Negro : — she had no property embarked in 
that commerce of human misery ; all her colonies had been con- 
quered ; and in them all, the slave trade had been abolished by the 



LETTER I. 11 

irreversible decree of Great Britain, the absolute possessor of them :) 
the five years granted to France to pursue this new created traffic 
in the bones and muscles of living men, has long since expired, yet 
it is still pursued in full vigour. The fiend-like cruelty, with which 
it is carried on by that country, is little known, and less regarded 
by our own. Look at the 15th and 18th Reports of the African 
Institution, to see in what manner his most Christian Majesty car- 
ries on this merchandize in ' slaves and souls of men"* — years after 
their sovereign had stipulated to abandon it !^ 

Does the example of France, in illustration of the principle of 
gradual abolition, as applied to the slave trade, afford no warning 
to us against its application to slavery ? His late " Most Christian 
Majesty,"" in 1814, admitted the slave trade to be " repugnant to 
the principles of' natural justice,^'' and agreed to relinquish it in five 
years : — ^yet still it is carried on by France, with increased avidity 
and aggravated cruelty. Mr. Canning, in 18^3, admitted, " That 
it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures, for melio- 
rating the condition of the slave population in His Majesty s Colo- 
nies, and preparing them for a participation in those civil rights 
and privileges, which are enjoyed hy other classes of His Majesty'' s 
subjects.''^ — Yet slavery, in unmitigated rigour, still exists in the 
British Colonies. The Abolitionists are said to have gained some- 
thing by these concessions of France and of the British Minister. 
What have they gained — but the conviction that all their labours 
to disclose the enormities both of the slave trade and of slavery have 
been utterly fruitless — worse than lost labour ? The trade has been 
carried on with keener avidity, with more relentless barbarity since 
the concession of France than before. And may not similar results 
be anticipated from all the labours of the Anti-slavery Society, to 
disclose the enormities of slavery in the British Colonies, so long as 
they aim only at its gradual abolition ? An action had better never 
have been proved and admitted to be criminal, if, after having been 
so proved and admitted, it is still to be publicly sanctioned and le- 
galized. It is better to sin in ignorance, or by secret connivance, 
than to sin against conviction by public license — better for the crimi- 
nal — better for society — since by the latter course the culprit is 
emboldened and rendered irreclaimable, and crime, instead of being 
winked at, is publicly authorized as crime. 

Are we not fully warranted in the conclusion that gradual eman- 
cipation has no ground either of justice or expediency to stand upon ? 
May we not reasonably call for its abandonment on this ground, if 
on no other, (viz.) that it is making no progress, that it is literally 
standing still.) that its supporters, however earnest, however inde- 
fatigable, are labouring in vain, — spending precious time and pre- 
cious talents to no purpose. From this delusion, — this '' baseless 

' Sac Montgomery's '♦ Vojage of the Blind.** 



12 LETTER I. 

fabric of a vision," it is devoutly to be hoped they will speedily 
awake. 

The restoration of the poor Negroes'* liberty must be the begin- 
ning of our colonial reform, the first act of justice, the pledge of our 
sincerity. It is the only solid foundation on which the reformation 
of the slave, and the still more needful reformation of his usurping 
owner, can be built. Recent transactions prove incontestibly, that 
slavery has a far more malignant influence upon the latter, in as 
much as moral degradation is worse than physical. The perversion 
of mind, hardness of heart, and moral depravity consequent on slave- 
holding ; its shocking effects on the higher and cultivated classes ; 
" on men of education and liberal attainments ;" and even upon the 
softer sex, in obliterating their natural tenderness, and substituting 
in its place a disgusting and ferocious cruelty ; — is delineated with 
temperate, yet dreadful accuracy, by the very intelligent and benev- 
olent Adam Hodgson in his " Letters from North America.''^ 

But the grand objection to immediate emancipation, that, which 
with the great leaders of the Anti-slavery society, is said to out- 
weigh all the rest, is the interest of the slave himself. Were he in 
a fit state to be intrusted with the full possession of his liberty, it is 
freely admitted that we have no right to withhold it a day — no, 
" not a single hour on account of any intermediate advantage to be 
derived from his labour.''^ That he is in a fit state to be intrusted 
with the full possession of his hberty has been abundantly proved 
by the laborious investigations of one of the most cautious and dis- 
passionate of your own body.' It is true, indeed, that the avowed 
object of his indefatigable labours is to recommend gradual emanci- 
pation, but the facts which he has brought forward, and the power- 
ful reasoning which he has built upon them, fully establish the con- 
viction that all apprehensions of danger from immediate emanci- 
pation are groundless and futile. Familiar as his important 
" Thoughts" upon the subject must be to every well informed 
Abolitionist, some passages present such irrefragable proof of the 
safety with which the slave may be entrusted with liberty, both as 
it regards himself and his master, that we cannot withhold their 
insertion. 

" In examining a period comprehending the last forty years, I 
find no less than six or seven instances of the emancipation of Afri- 
can slaves in bodies. The first occurred at the close of the first 
American war. A number of slaves had run away from their North 
American masters and joined the British army. When peace arri- 
ved, their services were no longer wanted. To leave them behind 
to fall a^ain into the hands of their former masters would have been 

o 

» See Letter 11th, pages 189 and 191. 
^ Such at least, is the declared conviction of the Member for Norwich. _ 
' See " Thoughts on the necessity of improving the condition of the slave in the 
British Colonies, with a view to their ultimate emancipation," by T. Clarkson, Esq. 



LETTER I. IS 

great cruelty as well as injustice. It was therefore determined to 
g-ive them their liberty, to disband them in Nova Scotia, and to 
settle them there upon grants of land as British subjects and ^^Jree 
men. The Nova Scotians on learning their destination were alarmed. 
They could not bear the thought of having such a number of free 
blacks among them, particularly as they understood the use of arms. 
Government, however, persevering in its intention, distributed them 
into the country, to the amount of two thousand and upwards. 
To gain their livelihood, some worked upon little portions of land 
of their own ; others worked as carpenters ; others became fisher- 
men. In process of time they raised places of worship of their 
own, and had ministers of their own from their own body. They 
led a harmless life, and gained the character of an industrious and 
honest people from their white neighbours. A few years afterwards 
the climate being found too cold for their constitutions, a number of 
them, to the amount of between thirteen and fourteen hundred, vo- 
lunteered to form a new colony, which was then first thought of, at 
Sierra Leone. And they are to be found there, they or their de- 
scendants, most of them in independent, and some in affluent cir- 
cumstances at the present day.*" 

*' The second case may be taken from what occurred at the close 
of the second, or last American war. Some hundreds of slaves join- 
ed the British standard, by invitation, in the southern states of 
America. When the campaign was over, the same difficulty occur- 
red about disposing of these as in the former case. It was deter- 
mined at length to ship them to Trinidad as Jree labourers. But 
here an objection was started against receiving them, on a different 
ground from that which had been started in Nova Scotia. The 
Planters of Trinidad were sure that no Jree Negroes would ever 
work, and therefore that the slaves in question would, if made free 
and settled among tiiem, support themselves by plunder. Sir Ralph 
Woodford, however, the Governor of the island, resisted the outcry 
of these prejudices. He received them into the island and settled 
them where he supposed the experiment would be most safely made. 
The result has shown his discernment. These very men, formerly 
slaves in the Southern States of America and afterwards emancipa- 
ted in a body at Trinidad, are now earning their own livelihood, and 
with so much industry and good conduct, that the calumnies origi- 
nally spread against them have entirely died away." 

" A third case comprehends those Negroes which composed our 
West-Indian black regiments. Certain of these regiments were 
transported to Sierra Leone and disbanded there, and the individuals 
composing them received their discharge as free men. This hap- 
pened in the spring of 1819- Many hundreds of them were set at 
liberty at once upon this occasion. Some of these were afterwards 
marched into the interior, where they founded Waterloo, Hastings, 
and other villages. They were all settled by grants given them by 



14 LETTER I. 

Government. It appears from accounts received from Sir Charles 
McCarthy, the Governor of Sierra Leone, that they have conducted 
themselves to his satisfaction, and that they will prove a valuable 
addition to that colony." 

" A fourth case m.ay comprehend what we call the captured Ne- 
groes in the colony last mentioned. These are totally distinct from 
those either in the first or last cases which have been mentioned. 
These were taken out of slave ships captured at different times from 
the commencement of the abolition of the slave trade to the present 
moment, and on being landed they were made free. After having 
been recruited in their health they were marched in bodies into the 
interior, where they were taught to form villages and to cultivate 
land for themselves. They were made free as they were landed 
from the vessels, from Jifty to two or three hundred at a time. 
They occupy at present twelve towns, in which they have both their 
churches and their schools. Regent's Town having been one of the 
first established, has become a pattern for industry and good exam- 
ple. The people there have now fallen entirely into the habits of 
English society. They are decently and respectably dressed. 
They attend divine worship regularly. They exhibit an orderly 
and moral conduct. Many of them, after having supplied their 
own wants for the year, have a surplus produce in hand for the 
purchase of comforts or superfluities."" 

" Here then are four cases of slaves, either Africans or descend- 
ants of Africans, emancipated in considerable bodies at a time. I 
have kept them by themselves, because they are of a different com- 
plexion from those which I intend should follow. It will be said 
that the three first cases are not strictly analogous to that of our 
West Indian slaves, whose emancipation we are seeking. It will 
be contended that the slaves in our West Indian colonies have been 
constantly in an abject and degraded state. Their faculties are be- 
numbed. They have contracted all the vices of slavery. They 
are become habitually thieves and liars. Their bosoms burn with 
revenge against the Whites. How then can persons in such a state 
be fit to receive their freedom ? The slaves, comprehended in the 
three cases before-mentioned, found in the British army a school 
which fitted them by degrees for making a good use of their liberty. 
While there, they were never out of the reach of discipline, and yet 
were daily left to act as free men. They obtained also in this pre- 
paratory school some knowledge of the customs of civilized life. 
Hence it will be said, they were in a state much more favourable 
for undergoing a change in their condition than the West Indian 
slaves. I admit the difference between the two situations. But as 
a comparison has been instituted it must not be forgotten, that if 
there was less danger in emancipating the other slaves, because they 
had received something like a preparatory education for the change, 
there was Jhr more in another point of view, because they were all 



LETTER I. u 

acquainted with the use of arms. This is a consideration of great 
importance. Would our West Indian Planters be as much at their 
ease as they now are, if their slaves had acquired a knowledge of 
the use of arms? Would they think them on this account 7nore or 
less fit for emancipation ?" 

" It will be said again, that the fourth case, consisting of the 
Sierra Leone captured negroes, is not strictly analogous to the one 
in point. These had probably been slaves but a short time, when 
they were returned to the rank of free men. Little or no change 
therefore could have been effected in their disposition and charac- 
ter ; and as they were never carried to the West Indies, they never 
contracted the bad habits or degrading vices of slavery there. It 
will therefore be contended, that they were better, or less hazardous 
subjects for emancipation than the slaves in our colonies. I admit 
this objection, I give it its full weight. I admit it to be less haz- 
ardous to emancipate a new than an old slave. Yet the case of the 
Sierra Leone captured negroes is a very strong one. They were 
all Africans. They were all slaves. They must have contracted 
as mortal a hatred of the Whites from their suiferings on board 
ship, by fetters, whips, and suffocation in the hold, as the West 
Indian slaves from those severities which are attached to their bond- 
age upon shore. Under these circumstances then we find them 
made free ; not after any preparatory discipline, but almost sud- 
denly^ not singly, but in bodies at a time. We find them also set- 
tled or made to live under the 2mw«^M7'«Z government of the whites; 
and what is more extraordinary, we find their present number as 
compared with that of the whites in the same colony, nearly as one 
hundred and fifty to one." 

; " It will be said, lastly, that all the four cases put together prove 
Nothing. They give us nothing like a positive assurance that the 
negro slaves in our colonies would pass through the ordeal of eman- 
cipation without danger to their masters or the community at large. 
Certainly not. Nor if these instances had been far more numerous 
than they are, could they, in this world of accidents, have given us 
a MORAL CERTAINTY OF THIS. They afford however a hope that 
emancipation is practicable without danger. They afford ground 
for believing that there is a peculiar softness, plasticity, and plia- 
bility in the African character.*" 

" The fifth case may comprehend the slaves of St. Domingo as 
they were made free at different intervals in the course of the 
French revolution. To do justice to this case I must give a brief 
history of the circumstances connected with it. W^hen the French 
Revolution, which decreed equahty of rights to all citizens, had 
taken place, the free people of colour in St. Domingo, many of 
whom were persons of large property and liberal education, peti- 
tioned the national assembly that they might enjoy the same privi- 
leges as the whites there. At length their petition was granted, 



16 LETTER I. 

but in terms so ambiguous as to occasion disturbances and bloodshed 
between the whites and people of colour. In 1791, the people of 
colour petitioned the assembly again, the result of which was a more 
explicit decree, determining that the people of colour in all the 
French Islands were entitled to all the rights of citizenship, pro- 
vided they were born of free parents. The news of this decree had 
no sooner arrived at the Cape, than it produced an indignation 
almost amounting to phrenzy among the whites. They trampled 
under foot the national cockade, and with difficulty were prevented 
from seizing all the French merchant-ships in the roads. The two 
parties armed against each other. Horrible massacres and confla- 
grations followed, the reports of which, when brought to the mother 
country, were so terrible that the Assembly abolished the decree in 
favour of the free people of colour in the same year. The news of 
the rescinding of this decree produced as much irritation among the 
people of colour, as the news of the passing of it had done among 
the whites, and hostilities were renewed between them. New bat- 
tles, massacres, and burnings, took place. When these events be- 
came known in France, the Conventional Assembly knew not what 
other course to take than to do justice whatever might be the con- 
sequences. They resolved accordingly that the decree of 1791, 
which had been both made and reversed by the preceding Assembly 
in the same year, should stand good, and appointed Santhonax and 
Polverel to repair in person to St. Domingo, to act as commission- 
ers, to enforce the decree and to keep the peace. In 1793, the 
same divisions and bad blood continuing, the commissioners, who 
had little more power than the authority which their commission 
gave them, resolved to call in the Negro slaves in the neighbour- 
hood to their assistance, and issued a proclamation, promising Jree^ 
dom to all the blacks who were willing to range themselves under the 
banners of the republic. The result was, that a considerable num- 
ber of slaves came in and were enfranchised. Soon after this tran- 
saction Polverel left his colleague at the Cape and visited the cap- 
ital of the South, where, finding the minds of the slaves to be in an 
unsettled state, in consequence of their having become acquainted 
with the riots at the Cape and the proclamation of Santhonax, and 
being convinced that emanci])ation could neither be stopped nor re- 
tarded, and that it was absolutely necessary for the personal safety 
of the white Planters, that it should be extended to the whole island, 
drew up a proclamation to that effect, and exhorted the planters to 
patronize it, they having become pretty generally convinced by this 
time that their own personal safety was concerned in the measure. 
In 1794^, the Conventional Assembly of France passed a decree 
for the abohtion of slavery throughout the whole of the French 
Colonies. 

" I shall now inquire how those who were liberated on these sev- 
eral occasions conducted themselves after this change in their situa- 



LETTER I. ir 

t'lon, — whether they used their freedom properly or whether they 
abused it. With respect to those emancipated in the North, we have 
nothing to communicate. They were made free for mihtary pur- 
poses only ; and we have no clue whereby to find what became 
of them afterwards. liespecting those emancipated in the South, 
and those directly afterwards in the West, by the proclamation of 
Polverel, we are able to give a very pleasing account. Fortunately 
for our views, Colonel Malenfant, who was resident in the island at 
the time, has made us acquainted with their general conduct and 
character. His account, though short, is quite sufficient for our 
purpose. ' After this public act of emancipation (says he) by Pol- 
verel, the Negroes remained quiet both in the South and the West, 
and they continued to work upon all the plantations. There were 
estates, indeed, which had neither owners nor managers residing 
upon them, for some had been put in prison, and others, fearing the 
same fate, had fled. Yet upon these estates, though abandoned, 
the Negroes continued their labours where there were any inferior 
agents to guide them ; and on those estates where no white men 
were left to direct them they planted provisions ; but upon all the 
plantations where the whites resided, the blacks continued to labour 
as quietly as hefore? Ridiculing the notion entertained in France, 
that the Negroes would not work without compulsion, he alludes to 
others who had been liberated by the same proclamation more imme- 
diately under his own cognizance. ' If (says he) you will take care 
not to speak to them of their return to slavery, but talk to them 
about their liberty, you may with this little word chain them down 
to their labour. How did Toussaint succeed "^ How did I succeed 
before his time in the plain of the Guide Sac, and on the plantation 
Gourand, more than eight months after liberty had been granted 
by Polverel to the slaves .? Let those who knew me at that time be 
asked. They will all reply, that 7io^ a single Negro upon that plan- 
tation, consisting of more than four hundred and fifty labourers, 
refused to work ; and yet this plantation was thought to be under 
the worst discipline, and the slaves the most idle of any in the plain. 
I, myself, inspired the same activity into three other plantations 
of which I had the management." Such was the conduct of the Ne- 
groes for the first nine months after their liberation, or up to the 
middle of 1794. Let us pursue the subject and see how they con- 
ducted themselves after this period."" 

" During the year 1795 and part of 1796, I learn nothing about 
them, good, bad, or indifferent, though I have ransacked the 
French historians for this purpose. Had there, however, been any 
thing in the way of outrage I should have heard of it : and let me 
take this opportunity of setting my readers right, if, for want of 
knowing the dates of occurrences, they should have connected cer- 
tain outrages which assuredly took place in St. Domingo, with the 
emancipation of the slaves. The great massacres and conflagrations, 

D 



18 LETTER I. 

which have made so frightful a picture in the history of this unhap- 
py island, had been all effected before the proclamations of Santho- 
nax and Polverel. They had all taken place in the days of slavery. 
They had been occasioned, too, not originally by the slaves, but by 
quarrels between the white and coloured planters, and between the 
royalists and the revolutionists, who, for the purpose of reeking their 
vengeance upon each other, called in the aid of their respective slaves. 
I repeat then, that during the years 1795 and 1796, I find nothing 
wherewith to reproach the emancipated Negroes in the way of out- 
rage. There is every reason to believe, that they conducted them- 
selves during this period in as orderly a manner as before." 

" I come now to the latter part of the year 1796 ; here, happily, 
a clue is furnished, by which I have an opportunity of pursuing my 
inquiry with pleasure. We shall find that from this time there was 
no want of industry in those who had been emancipated, no want of 
obedience in them as hired servants : they maintained a respectable 
character. Let us first appeal to Malenfant. ' The colony (says he) 
was flourishing under Toussaint. The whites lived happily and in 
peace on their estates, and the Negroes continued to work for them.' 
Now, Toussaint became General-in-Chief of the armies of St. Do- 
mingo, a little before the end of 1796, and remained in power till 
1802, or till the invasion of the island by the French expedition of 
Bonaparte under Le Clerc. Malenfant means therefore to state 
that from the latter end of 1796 to 1802, a period of six years, the 
planters kept possession of their estates ; that they lived upon them 
peaceably ; and finally, that the Negroes, though they had been all 
set free, continued to be their labourers. Can there be any account 
more favourable to our views than this after so sudden an emanci- 
pation .?" 

" I appeal next to General Lacroix, who pubhshed his " Me- 
moirs for a History of St. Domingo, at Paris, in 1819. He informs 
us that when Santhonax, who had been recalled to France, returned 
to the colony in 1796, he was astonished at the state in which he 
found it on his return. The same author tells us that in the next 
year (1797) the most wonderful progress had been made in agricul- 
ture. ' The colony (says he) marched, as by enchantment, towards 
its ancient splendour ; cultivation prospered ; every day produced 
perceptible proofs of its progress. The city of the Cape and the 
plantations of the North rose up again visibly to the eye !' Now I 
am far from wishing to attribute all this wonderful improvement to 
the mere act of the emancipation of the slaves. But I must be allow- 
ed to maintain, that unless the Negroes, who were made free, had 
done their part as labourers both by working regularly and industri- 
ously, and by obeying the directions of their superintendents, the col- 
ony could never have gone on, as relates to cultivation,^ with the ra- 
pidity described.'' 

" The next witness to whom I shall appeal is the estimable Gen- 



LETTER L w 

eral Vincent, who lives now at Paris, though at an advanced age. 
He was stationed in St. Domingo during the time both of Santhonax 
and Toussaint, He was also a proprietor of estates in the island. 
He was the man who planned the renovation of its agriculture after 
the abohtion of slavery, and one of the great instruments in bringing 
it to the perfection mentioned by Lacroix. In the year 1801, he was 
called upon by Toussaint to repair to Paris, to lay before the Di- 
rectory the new constitution which had been agreed upon in St. Do- 
mingo. He obeyed the summons. He arrived in France just at the 
moment of the peace of Amiens, and found, to his inexpressible sur- 
prise and grief, that Bonaparte was preparing an immense armament 
to be commanded by Le Clerc, for the purpose oi resto7'i7ig slavery 
in St. Domingo. He lost no time in seeing the First Consul, and he 
had the courage to say at this interview, what, perhaps no other 
man in France would have dared to say at this particular moment. 
He remonstrated against the expedition ; — he told him to his face, 
that though the army destined for this purpose was composed of the 
brilliant conquerors of Europe it could do nothing in the Antilles. 
He stated that the expedition was totally unnecessary and therefore 
criminal ; for every thing was going on well in St. Domingo. The 
proprietors were in peaceable possession of their estates ; cultivation 
was making rapid progress ; the blacks were industrious^ and beyond 
example happy. He conjured him therefore in the name of human- 
ity, not to reverse this beautiful state of things. But, alas ! his ef- 
forts were ineffectual. The die had been cast : and the only reward 
which he received from Bonaparte for his manly and faithful repre- 
sentations, was banishment to the Isle cyf Elba^'' 

" Having carried my examination into the conduct of the Negroes 
after their liberation to 1802, or to the invasion of the island by Le 
Clerc, I must leave a blank of nearly two years. It cannot be ex- 
pected during a war, in which every man was called to arms to defend 
his own personal liberty, and that of every individual of his family, 
that he should see plantations cultivated as quietly as before, or even 
cultivated at all. But this was not the fault of the emancipated Ne- 
groes, but oi their former masters. It was owing to the prejudices 
of the latter that this frightful invasion took place ; — prejudices, in- 
indeed common to all planters where slavei'y obtains. Accustomed 
to the use of arbitrary power, they could no longer brook the loss of 
their whips. Accustomed to look down upon the Negroes as an in- 
ferior race of beings, or as the reptiles of the earth, they could not 
bear, peaceably, as these had conducted themselves, to come into 
that familiar contact with them di^free labourers which the change 
of their situation required. They considered them, too, as property 
lost, but which was to be recovered. In an evil hour they prevailed 
upon Bonaparte by false representations and promises of pecuniary 
support, to restore things to their former state. The hellish expe- 
dition at length arrived upon the shores of St. Domingo : — a scene 



20 LETTER I. 

of blood and torture followed, such as history had never before dis- 
closed ; — Though planned cmd ewecuted by the Whites. But the 
French were not the authors of tearing to pieces the Negroes alive 
by bloodhounds, or of suffocating them by hundreds at a time in the 
holds of ships, or of drowning them, whole cargoes, by scutthng and 
sinking the vessels ; but the Planters. Till that time the Planters 
retained their property^ — a7id then it zms, — but not till then, that 
they lost their all. In fine, the French were driven from the island, 
and in 1804, Dessalines was proclaimed emperor of this fine territo- 
ry. In process of time the Negro troops were disbanded, except 
such as were retained for the peace-establishment of the army. They 
who were disbanded returned to cultivation. As they were free 
when they became soldiers so they continued to be free when they 
became labourers again. From that time to this there has been no 
want of subordination or industry among them. They or their de- 
scendants are still the persons, by whom the plains and valleys of St. 
Domingo are cultivated, and they are reported to follow their occu- 
pations still, and with as fair a character as other free labourers in 
any other quarter of the globe. We have now seen that the eman- 
cipated Negroes never abused their liberty from the year 1793, 
(the era of their general emancipation) to the present day, — a period 
of thirty years.'''' 

Let the conviction which this brief narrative must force upon 
every unprejudiced reader be carefully cherished, — let it be honestly 
and boldly avowed. Let every tongue give expression to the judg- 
ment of his understanding and the feelings of his heart, and declare 
that the oppressed and calumniated Negroes in our own colonies are 
not only entitled to present liberty ; may not only be safely entrust- 
ed with ; but that it is injustice and cruelty (not prudence and hu- 
manity) to withhold it for a day, or, (to use the expression of the 
worthy member for Norwich), for "a single hour.*" 

We do not follow our author in the statement of his two succeed- 
ing cases, because they do not directly bear upon the subject in 
question — that of complete emancipation. We make no apology 
for these long, though somewhat abbreviated, quotations from these 
important " Thoughts." Much as they have been read and ap- 
plauded for the strong sense, powerful argument and striking facts 
which they exhibit, it is evident they have been read and applauded 
too superficially. We cannot but beheve that their benevolent au- 
thor intended them to produce convictions in the minds of his readers 
far beyond those which he professes to estabhsh. When they were 
first published, the pubhc mind would have revolted at the avowed 
project of immediate emancipation ; but subsequent events have 
been preparing the way for its reception — have been forcing the 
conviction of its expediency and necessity. The writer of the work 
from which we have made these large extracts, must, we doubt not, 
have designed to bring the public indirectly and unsuspectingly to 



LETTER I. 21 

this conviction. He must have cast these lucubrations Hke " bread 
upon the waters,"' trusting that it would be " found after many 
days ;" trusting that his occult meaning would in time be developed ; 
— that the evidence of his facts and the force of his reasoning would, 
at length, be fully admitted,— and that immediate emancipation 
would be seen to be both safe and expedient and necessary. 

Let such as still contend for a 'pre^paratory school of moral dis- 
cipline inquire who are to be its superintendents ; — where is to be 
found the requisite authority for carrying its provisions into execu- 
tion .^^ The persons to whose absolute controul the pupils must be 
intrusted during the interval of their probation, have proved them- 
selves not trust-worthy. Judging from experience, we may, 
without breach of charity, expect as a matter of course, that the 
slave masters would do their utmost to defeat the object of this 
preparatory discipline, and to render it abortive. They have, it is 
now apparent, themselves devised plots and instigated insurrections 
Jor the 'purpose of evading the orders in council and meliorating 
measures recommended by the British Governments^ And may they 
not reasonably be expected to devise fresh plots, to instigate fresh 
insurrections for the purpose of defeating a measure still more ab- 
horrent to their prejudices and supposed interests — that of forthwith 
preparing their captives for liberty ? Are men who can persecute 
to the death the disinterested and devoted ministers of religion ; 
who can in open day pull down places of worship ; — who trample 
BIBLES UNDER FOOT ;^ who defy and menace all authority ; — who 
triumph and exult, like maniacs, in their devastations and outrages ; 
who punish in their slaves, the most exalted virtues as the most 
atrocious crimes ; — who immure in dungeons the noble minded Ne- 
groes, who in despite both of bribes and threatenings firmly refuse 
to bear false witness to criminate the guiltless ;™ are such men proper 
superintendents of a system of moral and religious education de- 
signed to prepare their slaves for freedom ? We need not enumer- 
ate all the frightful items in the long catalogue of crimes with which 
the slave-masters stand accused and convicted. We only protest 
against the farther delegation of absolute power to hands which have 
so tremendously abused it. 

But were it otherwise. Did slave-holding produce fruits of a less 
malignant, less virulently poisonous quality ; — did it present no de- 
cided hostility to this preparatory school for slave emancipation ; 
did it even accede to, and show a disposition \,o favour the design — 
still must we protest against it, as a farther violation of the rights 
of justice ; as a farther protraction of our cruel aggressions ; as an 

^ See the article Jamaica, in the pamphlet entitled " The Slave Colonies of 
Great Britain." 

' See an authentic report of the Debate on Mr. Buxton's motion relative to the 
demolition of the Methodist Chapel." page ?5. 

»" See the " Anti-Slavery Reporter," No. 4. page 31. 



92 LETTER I. 

arbitrary assumption, or rather, retention of power, wliich we have 
TiO right to exercise. 

" But, if we have reason to believe that the hberated slave would 
abuse the sudden restoration of his liberty, it would surely be right, 
and just, and humane, not to restore it to him suddenly."" No, we 
cannot accede to the justice even of this assumption. It leads to 
the invasion of a province which does not belong to us, — that of fu- 
turity. Prescience is no human attribute. Man is a very limited, 
short-sighted creature, and it is well both for individuals and for 
society, that very precise and explicit laws have been promulgated 
for the regulation of his conduct ; that the language of the Deca- 
logue is express and imperative, and that the christian exposition of 
it is express and imperative also. " Thou shalt not steal," includes 
a prohibition of all kinds and degrees of injustice, however modified, 
by whatever pretexts recommended. It does not admit the suspen- 
sion of a clearly defined obligation until we can ascertain what will 
be its precise consequences ; — it does not admit of our withholding 
from a fellow-creature his just right, until we can positively assure 
ourselves what use he will make of it ; — it does not admit of our 
detaining' a fellow-creature in slavery who has once had the calamity 
to be unjustly deprived of his liberty, until we are sure that he will 
not abuse its restoration. It requires us to do our own duty, and 
to leave the consequences, — guarding of course, as carefully as we 
can, against anticipated evil, — but not suspending the discharge of 
our own obligation on any uncertain contingencies involved in its 
performance. 

The indefatigable Philanthropist from whose " Thoughts" we 
have made such copious extracts, has (happily for our views) so 
arranged his own powerful arguments as to make them prove (as we 
have already observed) much more than he professes to establish. 
He has proved, as far as reasoning from facts and experience can 
prove, that the injured creatures, whose cause he so ably advocates, 
may not only be safely intrusted with liberty after passing through 
a preparatory school of discipline, but that they may be safely in- 
trusted with it before. 

In short, he has proved too much iov gradual Abolitionists — he 
has proved that the slaves in our own colonies may now safely be 
intrusted with liberty, consequently that they ought now to be in- 
trusted with it, and that every additional day and hour that it is 
withheld, aggravates the guilt of those who have the power to re- 
store it and refuse its exertion. Nevertheless, had all these very 
important and satisfactory proofs been withheld of the safety with 
which immediate emancipation may be effected, still we should have 
contended with equal confidence for the justice and urgent neces- 
sity of the measure. The power we possess to hold them in slavery 
having been unjustly acquired must of necessity be unjustly retained. 

The public understanding has been sufficiently enlightened to 



LETTER I. 23 

see the impolicy of slavery ; — the public feeling has been sufficiently 
awakened to revolt at its barbarity ; public virtue has admited that 
it stands impiously opposed to the laws of God — insolently defying 
the laws of the land : it has been arraigned and condemned at the 
bar of justice and policy, of humanity and religion. What is it 
then which upholds and cherishes the pest? It is graxiual aboli 
tion. But for this proposition, sentence of death would, long since, 
have been executed. Neither the Government nor the people of 
England could have endured its existence after having been so tried 
and so convicted, had not humanity to the slave, — his present 
SUPPOSED INCAPACITY FOR FREEDOM, been admitted in bar of 
speedy — instant execution. 

We never for a moment suspected the sincerity with which the 
Abolitionists have advanced this plea ; we believe them to be most 
sincere, but on this one point, most mistaken. We believe them to 
be most upright and earnest in the cause they have so disinterestedly 
and nobly espoused, but most deluded as to the means of obtaining 
a successful issue. 

We do not forget who they are to whom we have the temerity 
to apply this language; that they are, many of them, persons of 
exalted rank, pre-eminent talent, distinguished virtue ; that they are 
the wise and the good ; the wisest and the best : and we are aware 
that by applying such language to such characters we must incur 
the charge of extreme ignorance and extreme arrogance ; neverthe- 
less, we dare not withhold it. 

Happily for the world, the laws of humanity and justice are 
clearly defined ; — the requisitions of religion and conscience are in- 
telligible to the simplest understanding. " The way-faring man 
though a fool" need not " err therein." Such may be less hable to 
err on the subject in question, than those who are accustomed to 
deep reasoning and subtile argumentation, to look at all the bear- 
ings and connexions of a simple proposition, till the plainest truths 
become involved in intricate mazes of uncertainty, and the most 
obvious duties suspended or evaded by doubtful casuistry. 

The Gradual Abolitionists, though perfectly sincere in the belief 
that our West-Indian slaves are not in a fit state for immediate 
emancipation, may, nevertheless, have been unconsciously misled 
by the prejudices, the misrepresentations, the artful glosses, the 
palpable falsehoods of the West-Indian party. Our readers we 
trust will not forget, in the short sketch with which we have pre- 
sented them of the invasion, by Le Clerc, of St. Domingo, to. what 
tremendous mistakes and destructive consequences the prejudices of 
slave-holders may lead. Many of the leading Abolitionists are per- 
sonally acquainted with West-Indian proprietors who are " men of 
education and liberal attainments" — of humanity — and religion ; by 
which means their judgments are insensibly biassed. These ac- 
Gomphshed, humane, and pious slave-holders assert that their slaves 



24 LETTER I. 

are incapable of making a right use of their freedom ; that imme- 
diate emancipation would be destructive of their own happiness as 
well as the property and hves of their masters ; and men of such 
high cliaracter must be beheved ; those who are in habits of inti- 
macy with them cannot withhold their assent ; — but we can — and 
•we do, witlihold ours. 

We would neither assert nor insinuate that these gentlemen are 
aware of the falsehood of their own representations. Many of them 
w^e have no doubt, are themselves deceived ; — they believe the lie 
which they so industriously propagate. Prejudice and interest have 
so bhnded their understandings and perverted their judgment as to 
render their minds, on this subject, inaccessible to truth. They 
are not impartial witnesses, consequently their evidence is not to be 
rehed upon ; — the evidence we have quoted above, proves that it 

IS NOT. 

" We owe these poor victims of our rapacious avarice and cruel 
injustice a debt,"' — truly the debt is an appalling one ; and every 
year, every month, every day, that we delay to do our utmost to 
discharge this debt, we are adding largely to its extent. 

The righteous law of our Creator has not been impressed on our 
hearts; promulgated in thunder and flame from Mount Sinai; il- 
lustrated and enforced by the express word, the solemn injunctions 
of the Son of God himself, to be cast behind the back, or trifled 
with, with impunity. We may neglect the warnings, forget the 
denunciations of Divine justice ; — we may lull our consciences asleep 
and say in our infidel hearts, because judgment is not speedily ex- 
ecuted upon the oppressor, " God doth not regard." But the de- 
cree has passed the lip of Truth — " With what measure ye 

METE IT SHALL BE MEASURED TO YOU AGAIN." And He hath 

solemnly pronounced — " Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my 
words shall not pass away." Though we forget or neglect the 
warning, its execution will not be thereby rendered the less certain. 

Who then, who believes in Divine Revelation, who that is con- 
vinced that the globe we inhabit is constantly subject to Omniscient 
inspection ; — that all the varied actors in its busy fluctuating scenes, 
will individually appear at the tribunal of Divine justice, there to 
" give account of their stewardship ;" — to receive everlastingly " ac- 
cording to the deeds done in the body;" — to await the fulfilment of the 
unchangeable decree above cited ; who, that really believes these 
solemn truths, but must tremble at the dreadful individual respon- 
sibility which every one of us is incurring by withholding our ut- 
most exertions for the immediate emancipation of our West-Indian 
slaves ? 

" What, (says the objector) would you let them loose upon their 
masters ? — turn them adrift upon society without resources, — with- 
out any means of support but depredation and plunder .?" No, 
certainly. The measure we so earnestly urge would most eiFectu- 



LETTER II. 25 

ally obviate a catastrophe so dreadful — the near approach of which, 
from a general insurrection of the slaves, should they much longer 
be suffered to remain such, cannot but be anticipated. It is not a 
violent but a legal emancipation for which we contend ; accompa- 
nied as it would be, by wise and effectual provisional restraints and 
regulations. The requisitions of justice on behalf of our West- 
Indian Negroes would not be satisfied by the simple act of imme- 
diate emancipation. We owe them a deep debt for having so long 
withheld from them their just rights, for subjecting them to so long 
a course of shameful degradation and bitter suffering. We owe 
them GUARDIANSHIP, PROTECTION, AND PROVISION, (where neces- 
sary) as well as liberty. " As some compensation for injuries 
committed, we owe them the attempt to confer upon them every 
benefit in our power. We owe them especially instruction in the 
doctrines and morals of Christianity. But still, should we fail to 
bring one single slave to the profession of the truths of Christianity 
or to the enjoyment of its blessings, — not one iota the less do we 
owe freedom to every slave we possess. His right to himself does 
not depend on his conversion ; nor although he should continue a 
Heathen to the day of his death would the injustice of our detaining 
him in slavery be at all diminished.''" 

The liberty of the slave being his unqualified right, — it must 
of necessity be an unqualified wrong to withhold it. Let this 
simple obvious inference of common sense and common justice unite 
all the friends of humanity in one common object — that of a speedy 
and COMPLETE emancipation. 



LETTER IL 

TO THOSE WHO ARE TIRED OF THE SUBJECT OF WEST- 
INDIAN SLAVERY. 

Those, to whom the following appeal is particularly directed, are 
not, we lament to say, exclusively confined to the selfish unfeeling 
multitude, nor to the heterogeneous mass of mere nominal christians. 
Many who stand high in general estimation for benevolence and 
piety ; many who have joined the Anti-slavery standard ; who have 
pleaded with such forcible eloquence the cause of the oppressed 
Negro, as to have blown the slumbering embers of pity in other bo- 
soms into a fervid glow, have suffered them to be extinguished in 
their own. 

Many who have been awakened to the enormous guilt of human 

" See the Speech of W. Smith, Esq. at the General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery 
Society, June, 25, 1824. 



26 LETTER II. 

slavery, who have been roused into a just sense of the disgraceful 
hypocrisy of suffering it to exist in a christian country, who have 
been alarmed by fearful anticipations of the retributive justice, the 
righteous vengeance impending over a nation whose practice, in this 
respect, so impiously opposes and mocks its profession, — appear to 
have sunk into a deep slumber of selfish insensibility, of cruel apathy 
to crimes and sufferings in which they imagine they have no imme- 
diate share. From this slumber, so reproachful to their hearts, their 
understandings, and their principles, we must endeavour to rouse 
them. 

You are tired of the subject of West Indian-slavery ; you are 
wearied and disgusted with reiterated details of atrocities and mise- 
ries which you imagine you have no power to redress; unexpected 
difficulties and delays have arisen in the way of emancipation, and 
its attainment appears so remote and uncertain, that you abandon it 
in despair ; it ceases to interest — and is at length become an object 
of disgust. 

West Indian slavery is, it is true, a trite and hackneyed subject, 
but it must become more trite and hackneyed before it can be suf- 
fered to rest. After all the disclosures of the enormity of the sys- 
tem, of its wretched impolicy as well as wickedness, the crime and 
disgrace of suffering it to continue are inexpressibly aggravated. 
The knowledge obtained of this execrable tyranny would, one should 
have imagined, in a civilized and christian country, have been fol- 
lowed up by earnest inquiries after the most certain means of putting 
a speedy end to it. If one expedient failed, another we might con- 
fidently have expected would have been promptly resorted to ; — 
acquiescence or indifference under such an accumulation of guilty 
responsibility one would have imagined impossible ; — but that we 
should not only continue passively to acquiesce in this atrocious 
system, but actively to support it at an enormous expense out of 
our own pockets of upwards of two millions, annually, ! ! is an unsol- 
vable paradox. 

What a humiliating picture of apathy and imbecility, of incon- 
sistency and hypocrisy does such conduct exhibit ! We have ex- 
hausted all the powers of language in expressions of abhorrence of 
slavery, we petition Parliament for its abolition, whilst we are ac- 
tively as well as passively supporting it at the expense of our money, 
our character, and our principles. We pretend to commiserate the 
wretched condition of the enslaved Negro, whilst by our daily habits 
we are riveting his chains ; gratifying our appetite with the very 
luxury, the cultivation of which, constitutes the most barbarous se- 
verity of his oppression. 

After all that has been said and written upon this inhuman busi- 
ness, it is evident that the public mind has never yet been properly 
impressed with it. Our understandings have been informed, and 
our feelings excited- — but the crime of making or of holding slaves 



LETTER 11. 27 

in an enlightened, a free and a christian country, has never yet been 
properly felt ; has never yet sufficiently penetrated our hearts, or 
taken hold of our consciences. We acknowledge it to be a national 
crime, but have not felt it to be an individual crime ; though its 
shame and its guilt rest with all who suffer themselves to be indif- 
ferent or supine ; with all who employ not their best exertions to 
put a speedy end to it. We execrate the injustice and cruelty of 
West Indian slave-holders, but perceive not that we are in fact more 
guilty than they — because, with less temptation, with less excuse 
we are confederates in the crime. The West Indians have large 
property embarked in slavery, they imagine that its destruction 
would involve them in ruin; — but we, who consume its produce, 
are its chief abettors and supporters. 

We must remind you who are tired of the subject of West Indian 
slavery, that the emancipation of its wretched victims is not a mat- 
ter of option in which a christian may engage or decline, and be 
equally innocent. By v/ithdrawing his interest from this arduous 
work, he betrays a solemn trust, disgraces his christian principles, 
and deserts a cause peculiarly his own. 

'' The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that 
are oppressed^ He invited you to become some of the honoured 
instruments of executing His righteousness and judgment for the 
most oppressed of His creatures. He caused you to become ac- 
quainted with their oppression, their hard and cruel bondage. He 
touched your hearts with sympathy for their bitter sufferings. He 
gave you zeal and abihty to plead their cause, — to stir up the hearts 
of the people, to excite a general insurrection of feeling and princi- 
ple in their behalf, which, had it been kept alive, must shortly have 
insured their deliverance. But you have suffered the very consider- 
ations which should have braced your resolution, and stimulated 
your exertion to relax and enfeeble them. You have allowed your 
familiarity with West Indian enormities to end in indifference ; your 
confirmed knowledge of the most barbarous oppression to extinguish 
your sympathy for its helpless victims. No longer urged on by im- 
petuous feehng, by the ardour of a new enterprize, you have grown 
languid and weary. You have been so effeminately delicate, so 
fastidiously selfish, as to shut your ears to the enormous wrongs and 
sufferings of 800,000, of your fellow creatures because there is no 
novelty in the relation, because the sound has become monotonous. 
But we must, in spite of your weariness and disgust, do our utmost 
to force back your attention, and to fix it upon the crimes and mise- 
ries of slavery until the means are not only discovered, but vigour- 
ously applied for putting an end to them. We must, to the utmost 
of our power, ring changes upon this subject of weariness and dis- 
gust until the sound and the sense shall have reached every ear and 
every understanding — penetrated all hearts, made of " penetrable 
stuff," all consciences, but such as are " seared as with a hot iron ;" 



28 LETTER II. 

— till the duty of immediate emancipation is not only admitted in 
general terras, but its promotion by every means in our power is 
felt, individually, to be of imperative and urgent obligation ; — in 
short, until all who have any pretensions to religion and humanity, 
are actually engaged in it with all their heart and with all their 
soul. By so doing we are confident we shall render essential service 
to our country ; — we shall give practical efficacy to its best principles, 
exalt its moral character, and thereby enlarge and secure its pros- 
perity and happiness. 

By fixing general and individual attention upon this great and 
righteous work until it be finally accomplished, we are persuaded 
that we shall be doing more for the cause of morality and religion, 
more for the best interests of society, than w^as ever effected by the 
most impressive dissertations on abstract principles of virtue. One 
instance of practical righteousness outweighs all the mere speculative 
knowledge in the world. It is better to do one good action, than 
merely to admit the propriety of a thousand. It is better thorough- 
ly to discharge one paramount obligation of christian charity, than 
to be superficially occupied with the whole range. " Whatsoever 
thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might.'' Thus the way 
of duty will be cleared, the path farther opened,— increased light 
will shine upon it, — ^greater strength and alacrity will be found in 
pursuing it. 

For want of such a method many " disquiet themselves in vain,'' 
— " toil all the night (and day also) and take nothing ;" build upon 
their high christian profession " hay and stubble" — abortive schemes, 
unsubstantial purposes of good, instead of those solid works of 
righteousness, of justice and mercy, which would follow them to that 
tribunal where they will be "judged according to their works." 

And, therefore, on this trite and hackneyed subject of slavery, 
though we w^ant no more knowledge, we want a great deal more 
conviction to prevent our being the worse for our knowledge. We 
are the worse for our knowledge, so long as it urges us to condemn 
this inhuman system in words only, and leaves us at liberty practi- 
cally to encourage it. All our fine reasoning and pathetic declama- 
tion against slavery in the abstract, whilst we decline to put forth a 
finger to liberate the slave, only prove us to be eloquent hypocrites. 
With christians, whose hearts are true to their principles, their ac- 
quaintance with the nature of West-Indian slavery would have been 
im.mediately succeeded by earnest inquiries for the most speedy and 
effectual means of its extinction ; the discovery of those means 
would have been instantly followed up by their vigorous applica- 
tion : this would be the natural, the necessary consequence. 

There is a lesson of deep and solemn import in that emphatic in- 
junction, "Take heed how ye hear; for unto him that hath shall 
he given, but, from him that hath not shall be taken away that 
which he hath." This admonitory warning applies to every per- 



LETTER 11. 29 

ception of truth, every conviction of duty, every glow of benevo- 
lence, every pleading of compassion. These are not imparted as 
graceful embelhshments of our nature, to kindle self-complacent 
satisfaction, but to stimulate to useful and beneficent exertion, to 
render us willing agents of the Divine purposes, " fellow workers 
with God." They are implanted for use, not for ornament ; if their 
purpose be not answered they will be withdrawn : the mind once 
divinely illuminated will become darkened, the heart once divinely 
tendered, will become insensibly obdurated; from those who trifle 
with convictions of duty, who suffer their compassion for sufferings 
which they have the power to redress to evaporate in useless decla- 
mation ; — who, when empowered to arrest the arm of injustice, to 
rescue the victims of oppression, decline to interpose ; from these, 
on whom the evidences of truth, the convictions of duty, the requi- 
sitions of justice and the pleadings of humanity have operated in 
vain ; — from these will be " taken away that which they have."" 

There are times and seasons in the moral as well as natural world 
of which it is our wisdom and our interest to take advantage, — 
which it is dangerous, often fatal to neglect. As surely as suffer- 
ing the appointed season for ploughing and sowing to pass idly over 
will be followed by famine, so surely will the neglect of the appoint- 
ed season and prescribed means of moral renovation be followed by 
corresponding consequences. " To him that knoweth to do good 
and doeth it not, to him it is sin," — sin, for which he must suffer 
the just punishment, — punishment proportioned to the magnitude 
of the evil which his cruel indifference or procrastination is the 
means of perpetuating. 

For all the information which has been so widely diffused on the 
subject of colonial slavery ; for all the sympathy which its wretched 
victims have excited — we are accountable. It is at our own peril 
that we trifle with our knowledge and convictions respecting it. 

For sins of ignorance there is mercy ; for patient suffering there 
is rich recompense. A glorious redemption in eternity, if not in 
time, may await the meek and unresisting victims of oppression. 
But upon sins against light and knowledge punishment will fall in 
heavy inflictions. " He who knew his Lord's will and did it not, 
will be beaten with many stripes." That it is the Divine will that 
this abomination should be swept away, that the time is fully come 
for its utter extirpation^ may be clearly ascertained by the full blaze 
of truth which has been made to shine upon it ; — by the strong evi- 
dence which has been forced upon the public mind of its miserable 
impolicy and wasteful prodigality, as well as horrid injustice. It 
was not without design that so many great and good men have been 
called to devote their time and talents to the detection and exposure 
of that " refuge of lies" (behind which it has endeavoured to screen 
itself from pubhc indignation ;) — to drag it forth from all its dark 
hiding places of fraud and artifice, to strip it of every disguise, and 



30 LETTER 11. 

to expose every feature of its liorrid deformity to the broad day- 
light of truth ; — it was not merely to gratify curiosity, to fill the 
imagination with horrid images, to appal and overwhelm every feel- 
ing mind with unavailing grief and shame and indignation, that the 
real nature of West-Indian slavery has been so clearly exposed. — 
No, — it was to excite our abhorrence for the purpose of rousing and 
stimulating our best exertions for its speedy and utter extinction. 

But though our eyes have been wide opened to this enormity ; 
though we have revolted v.ith horror at the frightful mass of crime 
and misery which it has presented ; though we have shuddered at 
the dreadful extremes of depravity at which human nature has ar- 
rived under its malign influence ; though we have admitted that it 
is as impolitic as wicked, as repugnant to every maxim of enlighten- 
ed interest as to every feeling of compassion, every principle of re- 
ligion and justice ; though we have the means put into our own 
hands of expelhng from our country this scourge of humanity, of 
obliterating this foul blot, this brand of infamy from our national 
character, — there it still remains, deepened and aggravated a hun- 
dred-fold by our empty professions of guilt, our fruitless profes- 
sions of repentance. On this appalling subject, the convictions of 
judgment, the compunctions of conscience, the tender feelings of 
pity, the stern requisitions of justice, the solemn obligations of re- 
ligion, have hitherto been admitted in vain. Surely, no force of 
language can justly portray the odious combination of vices, the im- 
becility, cruelty and hypocrisy which must stamp our character if 
we continue supinely to suffer the eight hundred thousand victims 
of West Indian injustice to remain in slavery — in aggravated 
slavery — tantalized with hope which is to be extinguished in despair. 
" There is a time (a right time) for every thing under the sun." 
We believe that the right time is fully come for the extinction of 
British slavery. We believe, moreover, that the present moments 
are critical, that the right time being come for the execution of this 
righteous work, it is dangerous to trifle with it. We believe it 
must be now^ or never^ as far as our agency is concerned. The 
work lies straight before us, we are invited^ but not compelled to it. 
The purposes of Divine mercy towards the despised outcasts of the 
great family will not be frustrated, but other means may be em- 
ployed in their accomplishment, and we may be left to abide the 
fate of unprofitable, disobedient servants. We are invited by every 
argument which can convince, every motive which can persuade, 
every consideration which can stimulate the exertion of moral 
agents, accountable creatures — Christians, most especially, — but 
we are not forced upon the work. We may know our obligations, 
and feel their weight yet refuse to discharge them, but it is at our 
peril that we do so. 

That an institution so repugnant to every principle of humanity 
and justice, so impiously opposed both to natural and revealed re- 



LETTER II. 31 

ligion should have been suffered to exist for so many ages, unknown 
or disregarded by the christian world, is an inscrutable mystery ; 
but the long-continued existence of every other moral and physical 
evil is an inscrutable mystery also. Infinite power, wisdom and 
goodness, could, doubtless, by the simple volition of His will, ex- 
pel from the universe, evil, of every description — and this we are 
assured will be the final issue of His dispensations. In the mean- 
time the permission of evil is essentially connected with our present 
probationary state — and instead of inquiring why Almighty power 
and goodness are not miraculously exerted in extirpating slavery 
and every other species of oppression and suffering from the face of 
the earth, let us rather inquire into our own duties, and learn how 
we ourselves are required to act in relation to that mighty mass of 
moral and physical evil with which we are surrounded ; — especially 
towards that which is concentrated with such dreadful force in the 
British West-Indies. " Woe unto the world because of offences, 
for offences must come ; but woe unto them by whom they come'"* — 
and hif whom they are peryetuated. 

Some well-meaning persons have not scrupled to declai'^, that the 
evil in question, is too gigantic for human encounter, that it can be 
vanquished by no power but that of Omnipotence ; the hitherto 
unsuccessful issue of the Anti-slavery exertions has been presump- 
tuously referred to the Divine \yi\\ ; — the time for accomplishing 
their object, it has been said, has not yet arrived, and instead of as- 
cribing their failure to a deficiency of general interest and co-opera- 
tion, impiously call in question the Divine goodness, and expect the 
intervention of miracles to supply the place of the right exertion of 
the various talents and capacities with which we have been entrusted. 
What great reformations were ever effected without the strenuous 
exertion of human means ? Though it be true, that " the good 
that is done in the earth, the Lord doeth it,"" — He doeth it neverthe- 
less, through humane instrumentahty, by enlightening the under- 
standing and influencing the will of His intelligent creatures. To 
supply the millions of the human race with food produced from the 
ground on which we tread is, we are sure, the work of Omnipo- 
tence ; but we do not therefore conclude that the puny labours of 
man, the operations of ploughing and sowing, may therefore be dis- 
pensed with. Rich harvests in the moral as in the natural world 
are the result of diligent, well-directed,, persevering exertion, — 
though it be God alone, in both, who " giveth the increase." 

The difficulties which obstruct the work of emancipation furnish 
no just cause of discouragement ; they ought rather to be considered 
as tests of sincerity. Abhorrence of slavery is an involuntary con- 
sequence of its exposure ; but its extinction must be a work of la- 
bour and difficulty proportioned to its strength and deeply-rooted 
tenacity. Shall we therefore abandon it because it is connected 
with no present interest of our own ? — ^l^ecause there is nothing to 



32 LETTER II. 

bind us to it but the generous sympathies of nature, the tender 
pleadings of pity, the strong ties of christian obhgation ? 

Why the 13ivine image, in these oppressed Africans, has been so 
long suffered to be trodden under foot, — why their sufferings have 
been hitherto so httle known and so httle regarded — is no concern 
of ours. The veil of ignorance being now withdrawn, the horrid 
" secrets of their prison house"' being now disclosed, it is at our 
peril that we make light of them. The arm that governs the uni- 
verse, let us remember, is an Almighty arm ; it lifteth up and cast- 
eth down nations as well as individuals. The Father of all the 
families of the earth " will do right'' — He is a God of justice and 
judgment as well as mercy. All the powers of nature are His 
obedient ministers. " He speaketh and it is done ; He commandeth 
and it standeth fast." How soon may our vaunted pre-eminence 
among the nations be lost. How soon may we exchange the proud 
station of command for that of subserviency, the character of masters 
for that of slaves. From a quarter the most unexpected, at a mo- 
ment the least thought of, the instruments of our humiliation and 
punishment may arrive. To dispel our infatuated dreams of end- 
less prosperity and security, divine judgments may be commissioned 
to break in upon us, (as formerly upon the secure and voluptuous 
Chaldeans) in a moment, without warning ; — or they may proceed 
by silent, unperceived, yet unerring progress towards the certain 
accomplishment of their unsuspected purpose. 

But though national judgments may be long suspended or avert- 
ed, not an individual can escape the visitations of retributive justice 
in that eternal world to which we are hastening. There^ " Judg- 
ment will be laid to the hne, and justice to the plummet ;" — thei^e, 
if not here, we must experience the strict fulfilment of the Divine 
warning — " With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to 
you again." And from the awful parable of Dives and Lazarus, 
we may derive profitable notice of the kind and degree of punish- 
ment which will hereafter fall, not on the tyrant and the oppressor 
alone, but on such as have been regardless or negligent of the suf- 
ferings of the afflicted and destitute. This parable may have a 
much wider application than we are generally aware. It may unfold 
the future destiny not only of the slave and the slave-holder, but 
its design may not be at all distorted by supposing, it may also in- 
dicate the separate abodes of the cultivator, and the careless unfeel- 
ing consumer of West-Indian produce. The first idea may be of- 
fensive and revolting, but a little reflection will prove that there is 
nothing fanatical or extravagant in the supposition. For what were 
the different characteristics of Dives and Lazarus which placed such 
an impassable gulf between them ? No greater crime, no more 
palpable offence is charged or insinuated against the former, but 
those of selfish indulgence, thoughtless insensibility, or unfeeling 
neglect of a fellow creature's privations and sufferings; nor is any 



LETTER II. 33 

virtue exhibited in the latter, but that of patient endurance of those 
privations and sufferings : yet is Divine Justice represented as pla- 
cinfy these two characters in the next Hfe, at an infinite distance from 
each other, — the one in torments — the other, in blessedness. The 
Omniscient Arbiter, judgeth not as man judgeth. " Man looketh 

on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh at the heart." 

" That which is highly esteemed among men, is abomination in the 
sight of God." He acquits where man condemns, — He condemns 
where man acquits. A poor outcast from society, a loathsome beg 
gar, (whom modern refinement regards as a public nuisance, whom 
modern justice suffers not to beg at the rich man's gate for the crumbs 

which fall from his table, but sentences to prison as a criminal) is 

carried by angels into Abraham's bosom ; the rich man, on the con- 
trary, — respected, applauded, probably, by his contemporaries for 
his hospitality, his generosity, his splendid and costly entertainment 
of his rich friends and neighbours ; — who had a conscience, it mio-ht 
be too scrupulously tender to encourage beggars^ who was too ob- 
servant of his social duties to suffer even the crumbs which fell from 
his table to be given a poor Lazarus — he lifts up his eyes in tor- 
ments ! 

That Omniscient eye, which, with ineffable tenderness and com- 
passion, wept over Jerusalem, foreseeing the awful impendino- con- 
sequence of her obdurate impenitence, taking into account the eter- 
nal duration of human existence, the transitory nature of time, the 
comparatively short duration of the most protracted corporeal suf- 
ferings, the strict responsibility of man for every talent intrusted to 
him ; for light and knowledge, for mental, moral, and christian cul- 
tivation ; for all the discoveries of duty, all the capacities and means 
of doing good ; ordaining that to whom much is given, of him will 
much be required : — that Omniscient eye may discern in the free- 
born, illuminated, highly favoured sons of Britain, more than in the 
enslaved, benighted, afflicted children of Africa, to call for compas- 
sion, for mourning and lamentation. 

Possibly those to whom this appeal is particularly directed, may 
regard it in no other light than that of a declamatory invective, un- 
called for and unmerited by the parties addressed, who, havino- ex- 
pressed their abhorrence of slavery, and petitioned Parliament for 
its mitigation and gradual abolition, imagine that thev have fully 
discharged their consciences, and done all respecting it which duty 
requires of them. 

But the slavery against which they have petitioned still exists in 
unmitigated rigour. The voice of the people has as yet been very 
partially and feebly exerted against this enormity ; — so*^ partially and 
so feebly, that its supporters have argued from thence that thesense 
of the country is with, and not against them. 

" But the people (it may be said) the great mass of society, ad- 
mitting they have the power, by the reiterated and more unanimous 

F 



34 LETTER II. 

expression of their abhorrence of slavery, to put an end to it, have 
not the principle to exert that power ; — they are not to be wrought 
upon by abstract considerations of humanity and justice; they are 
governed by custom and interest."'' The great mass of society in- 
herit the same intelligent nature, the same capacities and feelings 
with the more enlightened and conscientious — and may be wrought 
upon by the same motives and principles of action. The people, 
the great mass of society, who appear so inert, so little accessible to 
any appeals but those of passion or interest, are nevertheless capable 
of a much higher and better influence. They may be moved, pow- 
erfully moved, by a sense of justice, by feelings of compassion, by 
motives of moral and religious obligation, were proper means em- 
ployed to bring these feelings and motives into exercise. Were 
persons of ability and influence, such as we are now addressing, who 
have been qualified to labour in the great vineyard, to enlighten the 
ignorant, to teach the thoughtless to reflect; were such as these 
faithfully occupying the five and ten talents with which they have 
been intrusted, such a general and deep abhorrence of this baneful 
institution might soon be excited and expressed, as could not fail 
to be decisive with the British Legislature. Such is the prepon- 
derating weight of West Indian influence, that without such a strong 
expression of public feeling and public principle, no radical change 
of Colonial policy is to be expected. But besides the incitement of 
more general and earnest petitions and remonstrances to Parliament 
against slavery, there is one simple and obvious means of discoun- 
tenancing it which lies within the reach of every individual, — which 
every individual of common humanity is bound to adopt, and to 
urge upon all within the reach of his influence, (viz.) the substitu- 
tion of the produce oi free for that of slave labour. But whilst 
this simple and obvious means of undermining and extirpating sla- 
very is so generally neglected by the more influential class, and so 
little exertion is made, even by such as adopt it themselves, to bring 
it into general operation, we believe they are incurring a heavy 
weight of guilty responsibility. 

How much of the bitter suff'erings of their enslaved fellow crea- 
tures they will have to answer for, who have the power thus to ex- 
cite and to keep alive the public feeling in their behalf, and neglect 
to exert it, is not for us to ascertain ; but we are forewarned that 
we are in the strictest sense responsible for neglected as well as 
abused talents,- — for the good which we have ability to do, and leave 
undone, as well as for the positive evil which we do. 

Sloth and infidelity often assume the guise of humility. " How 
little (they exclaim) can human effort accomplish with regard to the 
wide extent and appaUing magnitude of crime and misery which have 
from age to age deformed and afflicted the world ! How perplexing 
is the attempt to reconcile the present state of things with the Di- 
vine attributes — with the infinite goodness and love, as well as wis- 



LETTER IL S5 

dom and power of the great Governor of the universe ! He hath 
all power in Heaven and in earth. He doeth his own pleasure, 
none can resist His will : " He turneth the hearts of the people like 
rivers of water." But what can the puny efforts of man effect with 
regard to that mighty mass of sin and suffering which seems to cover 
the earth as the waters cover the sea ? To the few whose hearts 
have been in some degree softened by the tendering influences of 
religion, that sin and that suffering are the occasion of mourning and 
painful sympathy : they are anxiously solicitous to restrain the one 
and to heal the other. A love of rectitude, the awakened sensibil- 
ities of humanity, as well as a sense of duty, stimulate their exer- 
tions ; but alas ! what do they achieve ? Here and there, they do 
a little — -a very little; — the reformation they effect, the relief they 
administer, is but deducting drops as it were from the overwhelming 
flood of moral and physical evil : and yet, a single effort of the Di- 
vine will — a word from the mouth of him who " speaks and it is 
done," would restore virtue and happiness through all the bounds 
of the creation ! We stand appalled at the frightful accumulation 
of crime on the one hand, we weep over the heart-rending extent 
and variety of suffering on the other, yet it is little, almost nothing 
which human effort can do towards the diminution of either ! In 
reference to this terrible evil of slavery, the most prolific source of 
crime and misery ; what has been accomplished by years of perse- 
vering unremitted labour ? Our compassion for the wretched slave 
can bear no proportion to that of his Heavenly Father, his Divine 
Redeemer; — yet- still he is suffered to remain in hopeless bondage 
— ^still he is suffered to be disinherited of his birthright and degra- 
ded below the level of the brute !" 

Probably there are few minds, accustomed to reflection, in which 
thoughts hke these do not occasionally pass — and what is their prac- 
tical tendency ? A folding of the hands in slothful apathy, or in 
hopeless despair. But what will the humble-minded believing 
Christian say to such reasonings ? He will say, " Get thee behind 
me Satan," — he will resist them. He sees that their tendency is to 
negligence, to unbelief, to atheism. He knows that " here we see 
through a glass darkly" — ^that the dispensations of Providence are 
to us, in our present state veiled in clouds and darkness, neverthe- 
less, he has the fullest assurance that " the Judge of all the earth 
v/ill do right,"* and a ray of Heavenly light clearly points out his 
own path of duty. The course he is to follow has been illuminated 
by the footsteps of his Lord and Master ; pursuing that radiant 
track, he is certain to join the triumphs of his glorious Leader who, 
though invisible, is " going on conquering and to conquer ;" who 
" reigns King of kings and Lord of lords," " who must reign un- 
til all things are subdued under Him," — until " all things that 
offend" are gathered out of his kingdom ; till sin is vanquished and 
" death swallowed up of life." In the meantime, for purposes in- 



36 LETTER II. 

scrutable to finite comprehension, the tares are suffered to grow 
with the wheat, — sin and suffering are both permitted ; and the bu- 
siness of his humble followers is, to " eschew evil and to do good ;"" 
their duty and high privilege is to become " co-workers with God."' 
To instruct the ignorant — to reform the vicious — to feed the hun- 
gry — to clothe the naked — to relieve the stranger — to visit the pris- 
oner — and to redeem the captive, ar?, according to their ability, 
their chosen and happiest employments. They will not withhold 
their hand because they can do so little, but will faithfully employ 
their one, or their ten talents in promoting the cause of righteousness 
upon earth ; and however slow its apparent progress, whatever 
powers of earth or hell may resist it, they will go right onward in 
the path of duty, well knowing, that whilst they are so engaged, 
stronger is He that is for them than all which can combine against 
them. 

Those whom we are now especially addressing, may still object to 
the particular exertions which we so earnestly recommend, that they 
are confidently persuaded their great object will never be by such 
means accomplished. Certainly it will not ; if those means are net 
brought into operation ; if the exertion of them continues to be gen- 
erally discouraged. But we rejoice in the conviction that this will 
not be the case, for should the more influential classes remain inert 
or opposed to the measures in question ; others, we doubt not, will 
be raised up to supply their " lack of service ;"" " if they hold their 
peace, the very stones will cry out f'' — humbler, but more dei^oted 
and laborious agents will take the places which they ought to oc- 
cupy. 

Uncertainty, must, of necessity, ever attach to human efforts ; 
nevertheless, in the great work of emancipation we are bound to ex- 
ert them to the uttermost, in dependence on that power which alone 
can render them successful. To use the fervid language of one of 
the most able and devoted Leaders in this righteous cause; — '-^ Every 
heart and hand and tongue and yen should unite in promoting public 
meetings ; — in eochihiting before them slavery in its true and, hor- 
rific colours ; — and in multiplying petitio7is to both Houses of Par- 
liament^ until Parliament and Government are convinced, which they 
are not at present, that the public voice is decidedly in favour of extin- 
guishing slavery :'*' — we must add, — of extinguishing it promptly. 



37 



LETTER III. 

TO THE MORE INFLUENTIAL CLASSES OF THE CHRISTIAN 

PUBLIC. 

In appealing to the christian public on the subject of West Indian 
slavery, we have no adequate medium through which to convey our 
convictions of its urgent claims to a deeper attention in this quarter 
than has hitherto been bestowed upon it. " Argument and eloquence 
have been employed to exhaustion" in the exposure of its impolicy and 
wickedness, — its hostihty to every recognised principle of the British 
Constitution,— its impious violation of the laws of nature and of 
God. Yet the crime and disgrace so broadly exposed, so eloquent- 
ly deplored, so generally execrated ; against which we have pro- 
tested and petitioned still exists. And we believe it will continue to 
exist until christian feeling is more deeply interested, until christian 
principle is more earnestly exerted for its extinction. If slavery in 
the British colonies be ever eradicated without violence and blood- 
shed, it must be through the awakened energy, the constraining 
force of christian obligation ; through the authority of Laws which 
have been long since promulgated ; which are as old as the world ; 
which were impressed upon the very frame and constitution of man, 
written on " fleshly tables of the heart'' by the Supreme Lawgiver 
before they were written on tables of stone. In the christian code, 
their obligations are extended and enforced by considerations the 
most persuasive and solemn by which the human mind can be af- 
fected. These laws are uncompromising and peremptory. This is 
their explicit, imperative language — " Thou shalt not kill."''' — 
" Thou shalt not steal." — And how are these prohibitions in- 
terpreted to the christian ? " Thou shalt love thy neighbour 
AS thyself." — " By this shall all men know that ye are 
MY DISCIPLES IF YE LOVE ONE ANOTHER." Of what kind and of 
what degree is the love which constitutes this infallible criterion ? 
It is no other in kind, no other in degree, than that which thou 
bearest thyself. " All things whatsoever ye would that 

MEN should do UNTO YOU, DO YE, EVEN SO UNTO THEM," Must 

it not follow then, of necessity, that the Christian, he to whom the 
name truly belongs, he who would be acknowledged as such on the 
great day of distinction, of final separation between the sheep and 
the goats, must take a deeper interest than he has hitherto done in 
the cause of the enslaved African ? — must, in short, make it his 
own ? — keep alive his compassionate sympathy, exert himself in his 
behalf, with such zeal and perseverance as he would implore for 
himself were he to exchange places with the slave ? 

With the nature of his slavery we are but too familiarly acquaint- 



38 LETTER III. 

ed. We have heard of his cruel wrongs and bitter sufferings till 
we cease to be affected by them. The numberless well authentica- 
ted details of West Indian barbarity may produce upon their hearers 
similar results to those which a long residence in the country almost 
invariably effects, a lowering of the standard both of feeling and of 
principle, a searing of the conscience and a hardening of the heart. 
But no such consequence would ensue were the knowledge of these 
enormities followed up by determined and persevering exertions to 
destroy their prolific root. Our interest in the arduous work would 
deepen in proportion to the earnestness of our labours. We are be- 
come so cold and heartless in the cause of emancipation because we 
are so idle. Having once been awakened to a just sense of the enor- 
mity of the individual as well as national crime of slavery ; having 
seen the complicated injury, the dreadful extent of suffering which 
it entails on one party, the appalling depth of guilt into which it 
plunges the other ; that it degrades the image of God on one hand 
into a brute animal, transforms it on the other into a fiend ; — that 
it obliterates in the more immediate agents of this infernal system, 
every vestige of humanity, extirpates every feeling of compassion, 
converts the " milk of human kindness"*' into gall and wormwood, 
into corrosive and deadly moral poison, and renders man to his fel- 
low man a monster of cruelty more fell and remorseless than the 
tiger or hyena : having seen that it dooms hundreds of thousands to 
hopeless misery in the present life; that it plunges countless multi- 
tudes into final perdition : it might have been expected as a matter 
of course — of necessity, that every christian would combine his best 
exertions to put the speediest termination to a system so terribly de- 
structive of human virtue and happiness. But hitherto they seem 
only to have contemplated the evil as a frightful phantasmagoria. 
Si scenic representation of horrors exhibited for stage effect, for the 
mere purpose of strong and transient excitement. At most, they 
seem to have considered the pictures presented by it of human de- 
gradation, crime and misery, as a history of past enormities, of 
scarcely credible brutalities which marked the long gone by ages of 
ignorance and barbarism. They never yet seem to have beheld 
them as faithful representations of the present actually existing state 
of things in the British Empire, in the very heart of Christendom ; 
much less, do they seem ever to have suspected that they are all in- 
dividually implicated in their wilful encouragement and support ; 
otherwise, how could so profound an apathy have pervaded the 
more conscientious portion of the community on a subject so calcu- 
lated to rouse and to keep alive its intense interest ? 

Where their own interest is at stake they can reason wisely, act 
consistently, vigorously, perseveringly, consequently, with the rea- 
sonable prospect of a successful issue. But, where the interest tem- 
poral and eternal, of 800,000 of their enslaved fellow creatures, 
whom they are bound by their christian profession to love as them- 



LETTER III. 39 

selves, is at issue — then, though they have most eloquently pleaded 
their cause in public meetings, described them as degraded below 
the brutes — subjected to a tyranny so severe, to outrages so barbar- 
ous, that every feeling of humanity has recoiled at the relation, the 
heart has sickened at the horrid catalogue " of ills which man in- 
flicts upon his fellow man," and the listener has blushed and hung 
his head, to think himself a man. — Yet, when from declamation they 
come to action, when from appalling descriptions of oppression and 
cruelty, duty calls to administer relief, then, what a reproachful con- 
trast do their reasonings and actions present to those of which self- 
interest is the object. Instead of pursuing the natural, obvious, 
and certain method of destroying this inhuman tyranny, by ceasing 
to encourage it themselves, and by using their best exertions to en- 
gage all within the reach of their influence in the same resolution of 
withdrawing their support by refusing its produce ; instead of stri- 
ving by every possible means to keep alive and to increase the pub- 
lic interest in the cause of emancipation by inciting the people to re- 
newed and more earnest petitions to Parliament, for justice, strict, 
impartial justice, to all the subjects of British Government, without 
distinction of colour ; to rescue, as it becomes a christian Legisla- 
ture, the weak and helpless from the grasp of oppression ; instead 
of this, too many, even of the high ^professing christian world, seem 
to have closed their eyes and gone to sleep over the dreadful history 
of West-Indian barbarity, and left its wretched victims carelessly to 
their fate. Alas ! how grossly may we flatter ourselves with the 
imaginary possession of virtues to which we have no real pretension, 
by mistaking feeling for principle — transient impulses of humanity 
for the virtue of charity. 

We know that human nature is versatile, selfish, indolent; that 
however eagerly it may start in the cause of suffering humanity, 
when spurred on by indignant abhorrence of oppression and invol- 
untary sympathy with the oppressed, that it will soon relax when 
those impulses are withdrawn. We know how powerfully it is 
wrought upon by novelty, and how difficult it is to prevent famili- 
arity with crime and suffering from begetting indifference ; and we 
also know that no important good can be secured without thwarting 
and overcoming this natural instability. We know that all the 
great momentous objects of our regard — death, judgment, eter- 
nity, are famihar themes, and that neither our own true interest 
nor that of our fellow creatures can be promoted, unless principle 
be made to supply the transient ebullitions of passion and feeling. 
And we know that the poor Negro, after all the eloquent commis- 
eration which his enormous wrongs have called forth, will, notwith- 
standing, be left from generation to generation in the grasp of his 
ruthless oppressor, unless violence be done to this selfish supine- 
ness ; — unless christian principle rekindle our zeal in his cause and 
quicken our tardy humanity. 



40 LETTER III. 

The enfranchisement of eight hundred thousand of our fellow- 
creatures from the galHng yoke of West-Indian bondage will be 
found no easy achievement. All who are really in earnest in the 
cause of these defenceless outcasts will prove it by their conduct as 
well as their language. We have no rational ground to expect that 
their deliverance will ever be accomplished without laborious perse- 
vering effort. The double chair which binds them in moral and 
corporeal slavery, will not fall off of itself, — its strong rivets will 
not be loosened by declamatory invectives. The great and difficult 
work of emancipation must be effected, like all other great and dif- 
ficult works, by the diligent application of rational and appropriate 
means. 

By the conduct and language of some professed enemies of slavery, 
one would imagine they expected this mighty revolution would be 
effected without effort,— by magic, — by some self-moving mysteri- 
ous process in direct contradiction to the established order of things. 
" The work (they tell us) is in progress, and will be accomplished 
by the gradual advance of knowledge and moral improvement." 
Though they take no active interest in it themselves, but, on the 
contrary, do their utmost to retard it, by continuing to consume the 
productions of slavery and to discourage those who are using their 
utmost exertions to prevent that consumption. The same mode 
of reasoning and acting applied to the common business of life 
would lead the farmer to sit still in the confident expectation of a 
plentiful harvest, though he neither ploughed his fields, nor sowed 
them with grain ; they would lead the sick man to presume on the 
recovery of his health by persisting in those very courses which had 
engendered his disease ; they would lead the man whose house was 
on fire to expect the conflagration would be stopped by fanning, in- 
stead of throwing water on the flame. It is vain to urge in their 
excuse that they are not convinced that abstinence from the produc- 
tions of slavery will ever effect its destruction. It is one important 
means which it is the duty of every man of common humanity to 
exert to the uttermost as a testimony of his own abhorrence of the 
system, and his determination to do all in his own power to destroy it. 
And though the operation of this single means, however generally 
exerted, might fail in itself to effect its speedy and complete destruc- 
tion, yet, in conjunction with stronger remonstrances, more earnest 
petitions to the Legislature, we may reasonably hope that another 
session of Parliament would not be suffered to pass without its ac- 
complishment. 

We have heard the insolent contempt with which the orders in 
council, the recommendations and the commands of Government, 
have been received by the colonists ; and we have seen that their 
language of insult and threatened rebellion, instead of meeting with 
its deserved chastisement, has, on the contrary, been succeeded by 



LETTER III. 41 

additional concessions in their favour, and by a reduction of the 
duties on West-Indian produce ! ! ! 

Bj what other means then, but the rejection of that produce, and 
by earnest appeal to Parhament for the assertion of its awn dig- 
nity ; for the estabhshment of national honour and security, by the 
administration of equal law and equal justice through all the bounds 
of the British Empire, can we expect that West-Indian slavery 
will ever be extinguished ? Is it by commercial speculations ? — By 
more enlightened and accurate calculations of interest ? — By the 
establishment of a " Tropical free labour company V — Are we to 
leave 800,000 of our fellow-creatures in the hands of their merci- 
less task-masters until their liberation becomes the inevitable result 
of mercantile competition ? — Would this be to do justice and to love 
mercy on christian principles? Speculations on the comparative 
profitableness of free and slave labour may ultimately effect the de- 
struction of slavery, but christian charity will not wait the tardy 
uncertain result ; she will employ the best means in her power for 
its speediest destruction, and as abstinence from slave produce is the 
only means over which the people have absolute control, this she 
will use her utmost exertions to bring into prompt and vigorous 
operation. The formation of a Society which inlists the all control- 
ing principle of interest on the side of humanity, shews something 
it is true, of " the wisdom of the serpent,'' — but true christian 
charity will far outstrip even the rapid motion of self-interest, and 
secure its object by a more direct course. She will hail such es- 
tablishments as that of the " Tropical free labour company" as 
auxiliaries and secondaries, but will not suffer them to usurp the 
place, or supersede the exertion of moral and religious principle. 
The laws which guide her operations are quick and spontaneous, 
and prompt to the same exertions for the relief of others' sufferings 
as for her own. She regards the dreadful disclosures of the real 
nature of colonial bondage as affording a test, a certain test of the 
sincerity or spuriousness of christian profession. " If a man love 
me (said our Lord) he will keep my commandments." What com- 
mandments .^ How readest thou .? What was the reply to the in- 
quiry — " which was the first and great commandment.?" — "Thou 
shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, 
and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. 
(But marli the sequel.) The second is like unto it. Thou shalt 
love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang 
all the Law and Prophets." 

" If we love not our Brother whom we have seen, how can we 
love God whom we have not seen .?" If we so love not our de- 
graded and oppressed fellow creatures, of whose nature we so inti- 
mately partake, and with whom the spontaneous sympathies of hu- 
manity compel us to feel ; if we so love them not as to exert every 
means in our power of rescuing them, from the merciless thieves 

G 



4a LETTER III. 

among whom they are fallen ; how can we love God, their Father 
as well as ours ? By the fruit alone is the nature of the tree ascer- 
tained. By " works of mercy and labours of love" are genuine 
christians to be distinguished from the promiscuous throng of empty 
professors. " Herein, is my Father glorified that ye bear nmch 
fruit.'' Do we ask, what fruit ? Let us turn to the divine sermon 
on the mount, — to the awful disclosure of the day of Judgment, 
and see, what are the fruits, — the different course of life, which 
mark the difference between the ransomed and the reprobate. 

Can it possibly be imagined after the affecting enumeration of 
acts of kindness and mercy recorded in the close of the 25th chapter 
of St. Matthew, which our Lord represents himself as accepting and 
rewarding as done unto Himself, because done unto one of the least 
of his family ; can we possibly imagine that acts of justice and mercy 
to those wretched captives who stand so much in need of our sym- 
pathy and assistance will not be equally accepted ? 

Let such as have not yet ascertained the precise line of duty be- 
tween the two propositions of immediate and gradual emancipation 
refer their doubts to the divine records for solution. " All things, 
whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do even so 
unto them." Mark the precision, the commanding force of the 
language. Here is no room for evasions or exceptions ; no admis- 
sion for cold procrastinating delays. The rule is short, intelligible 
and decisive — and requires us to pursue that precise line of conduct 
towards all men which we ourselves would reasonably desire were 
we in their circumstances. The inquiry therefore, what line of con- 
duct a christian should pursue respecting the subject in question, 
resolves itself into a very small compass. He must put himself in 
the place of the slave — think of the torture of his galling chains, 
his ulcerated wounds ; — the premature exhaustion of his powers, 
from over-strained exertions, under the most barbarous coercion ; — 
the painful consumption of his life in hopeless despair. He must 
remember, that the poor Negro, has no one in the land of his op- 
pression to plead his cause or to avenge his wrongs ; — he must re- 
member the strong arm of power with which every feeble struggle 
for his^own relief is borne down ; — the inhuman chastisement with 
which his unavailing complaints are silenced ; — ^then, let him ask 
his own heart if he would not, above all earthly blessings, above life 
itself, desire, groan, for immediate liberation from the horrors of 
such a bondage .^"^ 

We have then the express authority of a Divine command, to 
stimulate and combine all our exertions for his prompt emancipation. 
Then, let all who humbly hope for Divine approval engage without 

™ Let it ever be remembered that emancipation from slavery is not emancipation 
from law^ — does not preclude such wise provisional regulations and restraints as so 
sudden a change of condition might render expedient. 



LETTER III. 43 

delay, and with all their hearts, in the arduous work. Let them no 
longer deal treacherously with their own principles and keep back 
any of the price which they demand. Let those who have leisure 
and influence make it their business to diffuse more general informa- 
tion of the horrors of West Indian slavery ; to incite a deeper and 
more general sympathy for its wretched victims, and (as the British 
legislature can alone effect their speedy and complete emancipation) 
to incite throughout the nation the most earnest and pressing appeals 
to Parliament no longer to withhold from these despised outcasts 
their full rights, because they are themselves too feeble to de- 
mand them, because they are so crushed by oppression that they 
dare not even beg for them ; — no longer to listen to the cruel sug- 
gestions, which procrastinating selfishness is ever insinuating, that 
because they have been so long the victims of lawless power, because 
their necks have so long been accustomed to the yoke, because they 
have never participated in the rights of humanity and justice, be- 
cause the image of their Creator has, in these His abused creatures, 
been so long trampled underfoot, — that therefore there need be no 
haste to rescue their bodies from lacerating whips and galling chains 
—and their minds from brutish ignorance and Pagan darkness. 
And let none of us any longer mock the sacred name of truth by 
calling those slow reluctant feeble concessions, implied in the prin- 
ciple of gradual emancipation, just, reasonable, merciful, when, in 
fact, they are only new modifications, more disguised and subtile 
modes of oppression. 

" Let my people go,**"* — is the authoritative language of the 
great Parent of the Universe, to all who have ears to hear the voice 
of reason, of conscience, of revelation ; to all who keep aloof from 
the confused Babel of sordid interest and political expediency ; who 
turn a deaf ear to those artful glosses, those selfish evasions, those 
" vain traditions,'"* whereby the Divine command is rendered " of 
none effect." " Let my people go,'' — is as clearly the Divine 
command respecting these poor despised outcasts, as it was respect- 
ing the oppressed Israehtes. In their case, it is true, the command 
was express and audible, enforced by great signs and wonders, and 
its resistance attended by immediate and supernatural punishments. 
But in the case of the poor Negro, the command is not less intelli- 
gible in a Christian's ear, because conveyed by the spirit, instead of 
the letter of the Divine injunction — and the punishment of disobe- 
dience, though it do not immediately follow, will, he is sufficiently 
warned, fall in heavier inflictions upon Christian, than upon Egyp- 
tian slave-holders. And who are so emphatically slave-holders as 
the consumers of slave produce.? Is not he who bribes another to 
commit a robbery or a murder, the greater criminal of the two, though 
he shed no blood and commit no violence ? 

He who kidnaps and forces away the defenceless Negro from his 
friends and country, and puts him in irons on board a slave-ship; 



44 LETTER 111. 

he who buys him of the slave merchant, who stamps brand marks 
into his flesh with hot irons ; wlio compels him to labour all the 
days of his wretched existence, without wages, under the lash of the 
cart-whip ; who, if he attempt to escape, or make any resistance, 
hunts him down like a beast of prey, chains and flogs him without 
mercy, — shoots and gibbets him at his pleasure ; — who seizes upon 
his children also, from generation to generation, as his lawful prey ; 
— all these, — he who steals and snakes merchandize of his fellow 
man ; he who buys the stolen merchandize, and he, who inheriting 
such ill-gotten property, lays impious claim to it as a rightful pos- 
session ; — all these, guilty as they are, are not the most guilty parties 
in these transactions of iniquity ; — they have employers, who make 
it worth their while, — who bribe them to commit these atrocities. 

It is a true adage, — " if there were no receivers of stolen goods, 
there would be no thieves." For what are those poor Negroes stolen 
away from their native country ? For what are they bought and 
sold like cattle? For what are they chained and branded, and 
forced to labour, night as well as day, under the most brutal coer- 
cion ? — Because the produce of' all this opp7^ession and cruelty — -finds 
with enlightened christians a profitable market ! ! 

Heretofore we sinned in thoughtless ignorance ; we knew little of 
the dreadful price at which our West Indian luxuries were pro- 
cured ; — now, the veil of ignorance is removed. The enormous 
crimes and sufferings inseparable from the system of slave cultiva- 
tion, have at length been fully exposed ; henceforth the guilty re- 
sponsibility of slave holding rests with the consumers of slave pro- 
duce. Let conscience therefore do her office, and fix the conviction 
of blood-guiltiness in our own bosoms. Let us seek no ingenious 
palliations or self justifying evasions, but confess that " we are verily 
guilty concerning our (captive) Brother,"' — and determine to make 
all possible atonement for past criminal carelessness of his wrongs, 
not only by conscientiously abstaining from all farther consumption 
of the produce of his inhuman oppression, but by determining, 
henceforward, to make his cause our own, and resolving never to 
desert it until the rights of humanity are restored to him, — till he 
is raised from the condition of a brute to that of a man and a Chris- 
tian. 

Henceforward, let us " remember those that are in bonds, as bound 
with them."" Let the speedy redemption of the captive Negro be 
the object of our fervent prayers, of our earnest persevering labours, 
— of prayers so fervent, of labours so earnest and persevering, as 
may bear some resemblance to those which we ourselves should de- 
sire, were our own enfranchisement suspended on their issue. Our 
prayers will then be heard ; the Divine blessing will crown our ex- 
ertions, and British slavery will be annihilated. And though our 
power to liberate the captive sons of Africa be restrained within the 
bounds of our own territory, our example^ when it becomes consist- 



LETTER III. 45 

ENT, will not be so limited. It is consistency alone which gives 
force either to individual or national example. Why has no greater 
efficacy hitherto attended our tardy example in the relinquishment 
of the African slave trade ? Because it has wanted this essential 
virtue ; because when we relinquished the traffic, we retained its 
guilty perquisites ; because we not only detained the living victims 
of the slave trade in cruel bondage, but doomed their children also 
and their children'^s children to the same dreadful inheritance; be- 
cause, whilst we persist in so doing, we appear to surrounding na- 
tions with polluted hands and a Janus Jhce, consequently disquali- 
fied for successful pleaders against a system of iniquity which we 
have so reluctantly and partially renounced. 

Had christians continued to adorn the doctrine they profess with 
those living fruits, those works of mercy and labours of love with 
which it was at first ornamented ; had the extended knowledge and 
profession of the Gospel been accompanied by a practical conformity 
to its righteous precepts, slavery, with all its attendant crimes and 
miseries, must long since have been abolished throughout the world. 
But the separating the profession of Christianity from its righteous 
and beneficent practice, has rendered it, comparatively, of none ef- 
fect ; has occasioned its glorious light to be " hid under a bushel," 
— the " salt,'' given to counteract moral corruption, to " lose its 
savour,'' — to be, in great measure, " trodden under foot," — calum- 
niated and despised as a thing of little worth. 

Yet this Gospel, whose lustre has been so tarnished by modern 
professors, is the only means appointed for salvation to the ends of 
the earth. No new revelation is to be expected ; by no other power 
will that grand prophetic renovation be accomplished, which shall 
*' fill the earth with the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover 
the sea." The stone, " cut without hands," seen in the vision of 
Daniel, which " brake in pieces the iron, the clay, the silver and 
the gold ;" — which subdued every opposing power, and " became a 
great Mountain which filled the whole earth," — is no other than 
that Gospel which, with us is held in such unprofitableness and un- 
righteousness. 

The world around us does not retain its present disordered miser- 
able condition for want of light and information, — for want of the 
means of its restoration to order and happiness. No, ample provi- 
sion has been made for recovering the lost harmony of this discor- 
dant world. It would not remain as it is, waste and deserted of 
good, fruitful and rank in evil, were those who have been called to 
work in this great vineyard diligently labouring in their respectful 
allotments ; — were *' the children of hght as wise (and as active) in 
their generation as the children of this world." 

We can imagine nothing better calculated to rouse their slumber- 
ing zeal, to give new life and vigour to their torpid principles, than 
the consideration of the dreadful state of moral and physical wretch- 



4g LETTER III. 

edness in which 800,000 immortal beings are held on British ground, 
chiefly by the thoughtless consumption of the produce of their sla- 
very by professing christians ; who, from the time when the real 
condition of slavery was first made known, must be accountable for 
every day's unnecessary prolongation of so inhuman an institution — 
and for ail the crimes and miseries from which it is inseparable, 
whilst they neglect the use of any means in their power for its 
speedy and complete destruction. 

Time flies swiftly — so does conviction of duty, so does the incli- 
nation and the power to obey it, from those who trifle or procras- 
tinate. Neglected capacities and opportunities of doing good, are 
not only withdrawn, but avenged, by leaving in their place the curse 
of increased insensibility, — and those who have been most abhorrent 
of slavery, may, by remaining quiescent, imperceptibly become as 
reckless of its sufferings as the West Indians themselves. 

Then let us " work whilst it is yet day,"" remembering that it is a 
short one, that with many of us "it is far spent ;"" — and therefore 
" whatsoever our hand findeth to do (whereby the double bonds of 
these our oppressed and benighted fellow creatures may be broken) 
let us do it with all our might." — Let our zeal and diligence bear 
some proportion to the magnitude of the work and the strength and 
resolution of its opposers. The interests of slavery have hitherto 
stood firm, have, thus far, resisted and defied all attack, because 
they have been supported with pertinacious and determined courage 
— and when the interests of humanity and justice are supported 
with equal zeal and resolution, they will not only prevail, but triumph 
gloriously. There is in their nature a spirit of ascendency and do- 
minion. Oppression would tremble and fall prostrate before them, 
were their professed friends and supporters but half as zealous and 
persevering as their enemies. 

We may appear to have laid a very undue stress upon the single 
duty of emancipation, since it regards only the temporal condition 
of the slaves. We have been thus earnest in pressing this duty be- 
cause we consider it as a necessary preparation for one of still greater 
obligation. We may not violate the established order. We must 
Jirst " Do JUSTICE (theii) love mercy." — We must do justice before 
we obtain a capacity to love mercy. To plead for the instruction 
of the poor Negro and to oppose his emancipation ; to keep his body 
in slavery that we may deliver his mind from bondage, is to " do 
evil that good may come ;" — to lay the foundation of charity in op- 
pression. We have been thus earnest in pressing the duty of eman- 
cipation, because we consider it as having an important bearing on 
the whole of our christian conduct and character. The various ex- 
ertions which a hearty engagement in this cause would call forth, 
would lead to the detection and counteraction of that inherent self- 
ishness which is the origin and support of slavery, the spirit of which 
manifests itself in our own country — in our hearts — in various other 



LETTER 111. 47 

forms of injustice, oppression and cruelty, which are of the same 
nature if not of the same extent. An earnest engagement in this 
cause, would not, as some imagine, withdraw our attention from ob- 
jects of nearer interest ; it would, on the contrary, open our eyes to 
see, and expand our hearts to undertake various other works of jus- 
tice and mercy which are at present overlooked. Christian charity 
is an inexhaustible mine, whose treasures accumulate in proportion 
as they are drawn forth. It is not like gold, of which, if we are 
lavish in one quarter we must be proportionably parsimonious in 
another. This wealth, on the contrary, the more it is used the more 
it increases. 

But we have said enough, it may be, much more than enough, to 
prove that it is an imperative christian duty to employ, to the utter- 
most, every means in our power for the speedy and complete ex- 
tinction of West Indian slavery. To the most efficacious of those 
means we have already adverted. In themselves, they are simple 
and obvious, but to bring them into effective operation, is acknow- 
ledged to be a work of labour and difficulty. 

These pages will probably fall into the hands of some who have 
already renounced the use of West Indian produce, for the sake of 
christian consistency, to preserve a conscience void of offence, an 
exemption from all participation or encouragement of crime ; though 
they have no hope that their example will in the slightest degree 
weaken the interests of slavery, which, they are well aware, are too 
firmly rooted to be shaken by a few such scattered instances of con- 
scientiousness. But, being morally certain that the whole system, 
root and branch, must of necessity be destroyed by the general ex- 
tension of such an example^ they feel impelled to do their part. 
But what is that part ? Surely it is the christian''s part, his privi- 
lege, as well as duty, to do all, in such a cause, which he has the 
power to do. Let him reflect that he is at present literally doing 
nothing to lighten the burdens of slavery ; that his own example, 
and that of his conscientious coadjutors, will produce no sensible 
effect on the condition of a single slave, will be utterly useless — a 
mere waste of principle as far as he is the object. To effect any 
important change in his condition ; to prove that slavery is abhor- 
rent to the Nation ; to give weight and efficacy to our petitions 
against it, the example must become general — and how can it be- 
come general without exertion and labour ? and from what quarter 
is the requisite exertion and labour to be expected but from real 
christians ? — from such as have time and talents to devote to the 



cause : 



The consideration of the utter helplessness of these objects of our 
sympathy, that they cannot plead for themselves, that they have none 
in the land of their captivity to plead for them, that their tears are 
unobserved, that their sighs and groans reach us by no audible 
sounds, that their lacerated, disfigured and mutilated bodies are un- 



48 LETTER III. 

exposed to our view, that they stretch out to us no imploring hanJs, 
utter no piercing cries for deliverance, — that all is silent, enduring, 
uncomplaining suffering — should, on feeling, generous minds, ope- 
rate as the most eloquent and urgent of all claims to sympathy and 
assistance. To whom must we look for avaihng help, — for the sub- 
stantial compassion of the good Samaritan ? From whence can it be 
most reasonably expected but from real christians of the more in- 
fluential classes, whose elevated station gives them a persuasive in- 
fluence over the sentiments and practice of those around them ? From 
whence can it be most reasonably expected, but from those to whom 
it is given richly to enjoy the life that now is, as well as the glori- 
ous hope of that which is to come ; from those, to whom much has 
been given, and of whom much will be therefore required ? From 
whom, but from those who must be often inquiring what they are 
rendering to the Lord for all His goodness .? How they are occu- 
pying the talents with which He has entrusted them ? What account 
they will have to render of their stewardship ? We want words to 
express our own conviction of the extent and importance of the ben- 
efits which you have the ability to confer upon the most oppressed 
and abused of the human family. You admit that abstinence from 
West Indian produce must become general in order to accomplish its 
object — And to You we must look to make it general — to bring it 
into Jashion. Who else, but those who have time and talents at 
their own disposal, rather, at the disposal of the great Giver, can be 
expected to devote them to a cause to which there is no attraction 
of ambition or interest, and for the most laborious and successful ex- 
ertions in which, no reward is to be hoped for but from Him who 
seeth in secret ? 

To be exempt from the crime of encouraging and perpetuating 
slavery, and to make atonement for past negligence, we must not 
only abstain ourselves from all farther consumption of its produce, 
but determine to the utmost of our power, to engage others in a 
similar resolution. We must make it a business, by every means of 
argument and persuasion, to engage the co-operation of all around 
us, high and low, rich and poor, — not regarding opposition and ri- 
dicule, but making the best of our talents and influence, whatever 
they be, to extend the resolution far and wide until it pervades the 
whole kingdom, until the use of slave produce shall become a mark 
of reproach, and those who have not renounced it upon principle, 
shall be constrained to do it for their credit's sake. A resolution 
and zeal short of this will effect nothing ; we shall only trifle with 
the subject, trifle with our christian obligations, and do nothing ef- 
fectual towards discharging the heavy debt we owe to our enslaved 
brother. 

Christian charity, implies in its very nature, the spirit of sacrifice 
and self-denial. What costs us little, is, in general, of little worth. 
But what sacrifice (it may be asked) or self-denial, deserving the 



LETTER III. 49 

tiame, is implied in the rejection of slave produce where the same 
articles may be obtained by free labour ? Certainly there is no sacri- 
fice in the individual substitution, but such a substitution can never 
be expected to become general without exertions which involve con- 
siderable sacrifices. West Indian slavery has been so often discus- 
sed, has become so trite and hackneyed a subject that it seems by 
tacit agreement to be excluded from common conversation, and it 
requires no little courage to encounter the evident coldness or dis- 
gust with which it is generally received. There is a great deal of 
prejudice and hostility among a large proportion of the higher and 
middle ranks against the measure in question, occasioned by the ex- 
tensive ramifications of West Indian influence, and a prevaihng no- 
tion among such as pride themselves on their loyalty, that it is an 
officious interference with the business of Government. 

It is highly desirable that the friends of emancipation should, as 
much as possible, for the sake of consistency abstain from the con- 
sumption of all slave cultivated produce. But as the cultivation of 
sugar is the most lucrative, and by far the most oppressive of West 
Indian slave labours ; — as the Planter derives his chief emolument 
from the sale of this article, and his monopoly of the British market ; 
— it is agahist this ai^ticle especially^ that we must endeavour to close 
that maj'het. But before entering upon the consideration of the 
best means of securing that object, we will briefly advert to the objec- 
tions most frequently urged against it. 

The zealous advocates for the substitution of East for West In- 
dian sugar are on all sides adm.onished, that their attempts to dis- 
suade the British public from the consumption of the latter until the 
former becomes the preferable article, are altogether Utopian and 
visionary. 

They are also assured, that were the British Public to adopt such 
a resolution it would be utterly futile as it regards its object ; since 
the sugar rejected by us would be exported to the continent. 

It is also confidently asserted, that a general disuse of West In- 
dian sugar would be alike injurious to the slave and his master, inas- 
much as it would occasion a fall of price, which by impoverishing 
the latter would oblige him to diminish the support and comforts of 
the former ; and also, that it would be highly injurious to the com- 
mercial interests of this country. 

In reply to the first objection we beg to propose the following 
questions : — 

Have the British public any just pretensions to the character of 
humanity and benevolence ? Have they any true sense of moral 
justice ? Does any thing but the empty name belong to the great 
bulk of christian professors ? Do any higher principles than that 
of the most sordid selfishness and cruel indifference to other's suffer- 
ings influence their actions ? If these questions can be answered 
affirmatively, then, certainly, after an acquaintance with the shock- 

H 



30 LETTER III. 

ing process of West India sugar cultivation, there is nothing Uto- 
pian or visionary in expecting that every individual possessed of com- 
mon humanity, to say nothing of religion, should abstain fronj its 
consumption, were East India double the price, or even if there 
were no other sugar to be substituted." The attention of those who 
are not thoroughly acquainted with that process, is particularly re- 
quested to the following compressed description of " the driving 
system^'' which, in the West Indies, is chiefly confined to sugar cul- 
tivation. 

" In holeing a cane-piece, or turning up the ground into parallel 
trenches for the reception of the cane-plants, the slaves of both 
sexes, are drawn out in a line like troops on a parade, each with a 
hoe in the hand ; and close in the rear are stationed the drivers, in 
number duly proportioned to that of the gang. Each of these dri- 
vers has a long, thick, and strongly plaited whip, the report of which 
is as loud, and the lash as severe as those of the whips in common 
use with our waggoners, and which he has authority to apply the 
instant he perceives occasion, without previous warning. Thus dis- 
posed, their work begins, and continues without interruption for a 
certain number of hours, during which, at the peril of the driver, 
an adequate portion of the land must be holed. As the trenches 
are generally rectilinear, and the whole line of holers advance to- 
gether, it is necessary that every section of the trench should be 
finished in equal time with the rest ; if any were allowed to throw 
in the hoe with less rapidity or energy than their companions, the 
trench would be imperfectly formed ; it is therefore the business of 
the drivers not only to urge forward the whole gang with sufficient 
speed, but to watch that all in the line, whether male or female, old 
or young, strong or feeble, work, as nearly as possible, in equal 
time, and with equal effect ; the tardy stroke must be quickened, 
and the languid invigorated; and the whole line made to dress, in 
the military phrase, as it advances ; no breathing time, no resting 
on the hoe, no pause of languor to be repaid by brisker action, can 
be allowed to individuals (however exhausted :) all must work or 
repose together."" The labourers, having no motive for exertion 
but the fear of punishment, are impelled to their daily task in the 
cultivation of the sugar-cane, on a burning glebe, beneath a vertical 
sun, by the stimulant of the whip, which Dr. Colhns, an experienced 

" Some persons object to the substitution of East for West Indian sugar, under the 
notion that the former is dearer than the latter. The objection, though a very 
sordid one, ought to be noticed. A correspondent, well acquainted with the fact, 

says " There is, in London, no difference whatever in the price of East and West 

India raw sugar, consequently, there ought to be none in the Country. The East 
India refineA sugar was considerably dearer, when first offered to the public, on ac- 
count of the difficulty and expense attending the commencement of the refining pro- 
cess ; but now, the difference of price between East and West India lump sugar is 
not more than one penny or three-half-pence per pound." 

« See ** Shvery of the West Indies delineated" by James Stephen, Esq. vol. I. 
p. 46. 



LETTER ril. il 

planter, and able apologist for slavery, admits, ** is usually left to 
the discretion of the driver, and is of course administered neither 
with impartiality or judgment; but is generally bestowed with 
rigour on the weakest of the gang\ and those who are so unfortunate 
as not to be in favour with the subdespot, on any part of the naked 
body or head, by which means the weaker Negroes are over-wrought 
and compelled to resort to the sick-house?'"^ Let it be remembered 
also, that in addition to this severe and exhausting day-process, in 
the cultivation of the sugar cane, there is the aggravated oppression 
of alternate night labour, during nearly half the year in grinding 
at the sugar-mills, &c. 

Surely there is nothing Utopian or visionary in expecting that 
every person of common humanity, not immediately interested in 
the support of slavery, will desist from the consumption of a luxury 
cultivated under such a system as this ; — a system so exhausting and 
destructive of human life in those Islands where it is most cultivated, 
as would, were the same mortality generally to prevail, — " unpeople 
the earth in half a century ! ! !"i Surely there is nothing Utopian 
or visionary in expecting that all who retain any sense of moral jus- 
tice, will renounce the consumption of sugar thus cultivated, were 
there no other substitute to be obtained for it ; more especially when 
acquainted with the fact (which all may be by referring to the last- 
mentioned Anti-slavery Report) that this horrid system will be 
mitigated or aggravated in exact proportion as the demand for this 
luxury increases or diminishes. 

To the second objection, that the substitution of East, for West 
India sugar would be utterly futile, as it regards the destruction of 
West Indian slavery; since the sugar rejected by us v.'ould be ex- 
ported to the continent ; we imagine the West Indians themselves 
have furnished a complete confutation. For to what do their vio- 
lent protestations against the equalization of the duties on East and 
West Indian sugar, — their virulent invectives against those who at- 
tempt to promote the substitution of the former for the latter 
amount ? — but to so many proofs that they regard these measures 
as attacks upon the very vitals of their system. One of their ablest 
champions, having asserted in so many words, that " the continent 
can be, and is supplied with sugar at a cheaper rate than it can be 
grown by the British Planter.''"^ — And in a small tract recently is- 
sued by the West Indian party, addressed " to the consumers of 
sugar^'' the public are admonished not to be the " dupes of the 

P See '• Practical rules, &c. for the treatment of slaves in the sugar colonies." 
p. 201, 202, 267. 

'I See the "-second report of the committee of the Anti-Slavery society." 

■" See a masterly pamphlet entitled " East and West Indian sugar, or a refutation 
of tiie claims of the \Ve->t Indian colonists to a ])rotecting duty, &c." (page 3.) to 
which also we refer our readers for a comjdete exposure of the fallacy of the objec- 
tion that the commercial interests of the country would be injured by the substitu- 
tion of East for West India sugar. 



'52 LETTER III. 

humbug of interested people, who would persuade them to substi- 
tute East for West India sugar, and by that means involve the 
colonies in utter ruin.'" Thej are warned against the " selfish de- 
signs of interested cunning persons, who, regardless of the sacred 
obligations of truth, would, if they could, sacrifice the West Indian 
colonies to their own narrow interests, which, whilst they assume 
the gloss of humanity to the negroes, would disable their masters 
from feeding, clothing, protecting^ and impartiiig religious instruc- 
tion to tliem ; and condemn to ruin an integral part of the British 
empire." 

It is evident that the measure in question is regarded by the colo- 
nists with the utmost alarm and dismay, consequently, it cannot be 
of that nugatory, insignificant nature, which the objector would re- 
present. But the production adverted to, insignificant and con- 
temptible as it may appear, must not pass without farther comment. 
It is an important document, full of " pith and argument,"" — ex- 
hibiting, in narrow compass, the wretched shifts and miserable ex- 
tremities to which the upholders of slavery are driven. It revives, 
and puts into popular, wholesale circulation, the often confuted 
falsehood of the assertion that East India sugar is not the produc- 
tion of free labour, but of a system of slavery more severe than that 
of the West Indies, many respectable authorities being brought 
forward to prove that such slavery exists in the Loiver Carnatic. 
The author of this precious document miscalculated in supposing 
that it would meet the eye of none but casual unreflecting readers, 
who were too ignorant or too thoughtless to consider that the Lower 
Carnatic is a thousand miles distant from the Province of Bengal, 
where the sugar brought from the East Indies into this country is 
cultivated. We refer the reader to a very sensible reply to the in- 
sinuation that East India sugar is not the production of free labour, 
in a small tract, bearing the same title,—" To the consumers of 
sugar^'' by the eloquent author of " the Rights of man in the West 
Indies.'' — But as this writer has entirely passed over the objections 
of the AVest Indian declaimer against the substitution of East for 
West Indian sugar, on account of the cruel effect it would have 
upon the slave as well as his Master, (thinking it, no doubt, too 
contemptible to deserve a reply, its fallacy having been so often ex- 
posed) — ^yet, being aware that many are still under this delusion, 
we quote the following brief passages from the " second report of 
the committee of the Anti-slavery society,"" as a complete answer to 
the last mentioned objection. 

" The West Indians assert that if prices (of sugar) should fall, 
the slaves must starve ; but in what way are low prices to produce 
this effect ? The food of the field slaves in Jamaica is raised en- 
tirely by their own hands on the portion of ground allotted to them 
for that purpose, and cultivated during that fragment of their time 
specifically assigned them by law. Is it then by depriving the slaves 



LETTER III. m 

of the land which has been set apart for their subsistence, and which 
the owner himself has now less temptation than ever to occupy, that 
starvation is to ensue ? Or is it by depriving them, without any 
assignable object for so doing, of the scanty portion of time which 
the law allows them for cultivating their allotments ? If not, how 
is it possible for them to starve ?"" " The tendency of a low price 
of sugar is obviously to direct a larger share both of land and la- 
bour to the growth of provisions, or of some other article of export- 
able produce than sugar ; — and, whatever article may be substituted 
Jbr it, the change must operate as a relief to the slaves ; the culture 
of sugar being by far the most oppressive branch of colonial hus- 
bandry.*" *' The Bahamas grow no sugar. There, the increase of 
the popidation is very considerably greater than iji any other colony. 
The only other colony of Great Britain, in which there is any in- 
crease of the slaves, is Barbadoes ; and that is the colony (with one 
exception) which makes the smallest quantity of sugar in proportion 
to its numbers." " In St. Vincent, Grenada, Tobago, and Deme- 
rara, where the proportion of sugar is the largest, — there the de- 
crease proceeds at a rapid rate ; at a rate, ifi some of them, which 
would unpeople the earth in half a century ! ! /"" 

These let it be remembered are not vague unsupported assertions ; 
they are grounded on authentic documents, on accurate calculation, 
on notorious facts, which no ingenuity can evade or confute. From 
these documents are we not fully warranted in urging all who have 
heads to think and hearts to feel, to the conscious rejection of West 
India sugar and rum ? — For should such a resolution fail to become 
sufficiently general to accomplish its ultimate object, yet, it is evi- 
dent that it would essentially mitigate the sufferings of the slave, 
sugar cultivation being the most dreadfully oppressive and destruc- 
tive of all his labours. 

But we have not quite done with this West India sugar tract. 
If the British pubhc substitute East for West India sugar — then, 
" their masters (we are told) will be disabled Jrom imparting reli- 
gious instruction to their Negroes^'' Here is a " humbug^'' to 
which there is surely no parallel ! In this wretched effiart of impos- 
ture we know not whether audacity or imbecility are most conspicu- 
ous. Can the writer possibly imagine after the notorious opposi- 
tion made by the great body of Planters to the religious instruction 
of the Negroes ; — after the dreadful tragedies so recently acted in 
Barbadoes and Demerara, that the people of England can be delu- 
ded by such miserable cant as this ? 

It were endless to enumerate all the objections which may be 
urged against the measure in question. We trust enough has been 
said to prove that it is neither a Utopian, a useless, or pernicious 
project to endeavour to dissuade the British Public (all, at least, 
who have any real sense of religion, of humanity, or moral justice) 
from the consumption of slave cultivated sugar, when once ac- 



54 LETTER IV. 

quainted with the object and tendency of its rejection. We should 
shudder at the idea of being ourselves the immediate agents of the 
horrid system of oppression above described, — but voluntarily to 
sanction and encourage that oppression in others, is, in effect, equally 
criminal. 

This remark will be said to imply a sweeping condemnation of 
all who entertain different opinions from those here expressed of the 
measure in question and who are consequently not disposed to adopt 
it. We certainly do consider the consumption of West India sugar, 
under the present system of cultivation, as absolutely interdicted by 
the laws of religion, humanity and justice. That many highly re- 
spectable, humane, and truly religious persons persist in the use of 
it, we are quite aware ; but that circumstance does not in the least 
alter the moral character of the practice. They who do persist in 
it after being acquainted with its tendency, do so at the expense of 
their principles. That the practice is attended with no feeling of 
compunction, is no proof of its innocence. It is possible^ let us 
never forget, for the very worst crimes to be perpetrated without 
any consciousness of their guilt. It is well, disposed as we all are 
to self complacent indulgence in any habit to which prejudice, cus- 
tom, or interest incite us, that we are not left to the uncertain, ca- 
pricious guidance of individual opinion, but that we have an explicit, 
intelligible, immutable rule, a Divine command, applicable to 
every variety of circumstance and character, to restrain and direct 
our conduct, (viz.) — To do unto all men, whatsoever we 

WOULD THAT THEY SHOULD DO UNTO US. 



LETTER IV. 

ON THE MOST EFFICIENT MEANS OF DEEPENING AND EX- 
TENDING THE PUBLIC INTEREST IN THE SPEEDY EX- 
TINCTION OF WEST INDIAN SLAVERY. 

In enumerating the various means by which an increased interest in 
the speedy extinction of West Indian slavery can be most speedily 
and widely extended, is it possible to overlook the christian Pulpit.? 
To whom but the professed Ambassadors of Him who came to 
^' undo the heavy burdens — to bind up the broken hearted — to 
preach deliverance to the captives" — to break every yoke but that 
of his own mild and benignant sway ; to whom but to those who are 
regarded as the delegated shepherds of the flock, who professed to 
watch for souls as they that must give an account ;"" to whom but 
to conscientious christian Ministers, of all denominations, can we so 
reasonably look for deepening and widening the public interest in 



LETTER IV. 5^ 

the speedy extinction of this Anti-christian institution, by making it 
a subject of pulpit admonition ? 

Should any object, that it would be a lowering of the dignity, a 
desecration of the sacredness of the christian pulpit to employ it in 
the discussion of secular or political questions; we would ask, 
whether the present wretchedly degraded and oppressed condition 
of 800,000 immortal beings ; the brutish ignorance and heathen 
darkness consequent upon and necessarily connected with their cruel 
bondage ; whether an inquiry into the best means whereby the re- 
storation of those natural rights which they have never forfeited, 
and the enjoyment of those civil and religious privileges to which 
they have an equal claim with ourselves, may be best secured to 
them can be regarded as mere secular or political considerations ? 
If they can, then are a large portion of the instructions of our 
Great Lord and Master of the same secular and political character. 
For on what themes did he chiefly discourse with the Scribes and 
Pharisees and with his own disciples, in his divine sermon on the 
mount, but on those of justice and mercy, of compassion and kind- 
ness .?— and what were the objects of his severest maledictions but 
injustice, oppression and cruelty, above all, hypocrisy, the combi- 
nation of high religious profession with the violation of its righteous 
precepts; long prayers and sanctimonious observances with the 
'' devouring of widows' houses'' extortion and oppression ? What was 
the chief aim of his instructive parables, of Dives and Lazarus, of 
the good Samaritan, of the relentless fellow servant, and of his aw- 
ful illustrations of the day of Judgment, but to inculcate lessons of 
compassion and sym.pathy ; to incite to works of justice and mercy ? 

But we need not labour to obviate objections which have no real 
existence. The Pulpit is every where employed in pressing themes 
of an exact similar nature though of less urgent necessity than that in 
question ; in recommending the estabhshment and support of in- 
firmaries and hospitals for the relief of temporal want and the miti- 
gation of bodily suffering. 

We would not merely contend that the best ways and means of 
abolishing slavery ma?/ with the strictest propriety*^ and accordance 
with established precedent be pointed out and recommended from 
the Pulpit ; but that such an employment of it would be peculiarly 
appropriate. If righteousness, justice and mercy be essential parts 
of the christian character ; if " all the law and the prophets be com- 
prehended in the two commandments of loving God with all the 
heart, soul and strength, andoUr neighbour as ourselves; if Christ 
himself had said, that this second is like unto the first and great 
commandment" in its comprehensive nature and extensive require- 
ments ; then it is both expedient and necessary to dilate and expa- 
tiate upon this also ; to extend and apply it to existing circum- 
stances ; to bring the habits and conduct of professors to this un- 
varying standard and touchstone of christian rectitude. 



5« LETTER IV. 

" I say unto you, for every idle word that men shall speak they 
shall o;ive account thereof in the day of Judgment,^' is one of those 
deeply sionificant and comprehensive sentences in which is revealed 
the awful nature and extent of our accountability. In this con- 
cise declaration is condensed information of immense importance, 
connected with consequences the most momentous. Every word in 
this emphatic sentence has a deep and weighty signification. " I say 
unto you,"' — What simple majesty, what solemn import in the in- 
troduction ! The Saviour and final Judge of the world is the 
speaker, — he who is himself the truth, — who hath said " Heaven 
and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away'' — the 
Son of God makes the awful declaration, that " for every idle word 
men shall give account in the day of judgment." The all-pervading 
presence of the invisible Judge — the all-con troling nature of his 
relio-ion — the imperishable book of remembrance preserved by him 
of the whole tenor, the minutiae, of the conduct of his intelligent 
creatures — and their certain and strict accountability to him, are all 
directly implied in this concise communication. If then, for every 
idle (thouo-htless) word we shall give an account in the day of judg- 
ment, is it not a necessary inference that for every injurious action 
we shall be equally accountable ? What infatuated self-deceivers 
we are ! With what foolish, mad presumption we say to our souls, 
" Peace, when there is no peace !" We lose the recollection of the 
daily tenor of our own thoughts, words and actions, even of the most 
guilty we retain but vague and transient remembrance ; — we soon 
foro-ive and forget our own transgressions, and presumptuously and 
impiously imagine, even respecting those which are unrepented of, 
unannealed, that they are also forgiven and forgotten by our Omni- 
scient Judge ; though he hath with solemn emphasis declared that 
" for every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account 
thereof in the day of judgment." How much more of their deliber- 
ate actions ! These will not only be remembered, but a far dif- 
ferent estimate to our own will be made of them. In assigning their 
respective places in the book of Divine remembrance, " righteous- 
ness will be laid to the line and judgment to the plummet," actions, 
many of which we regard as indifferent or innocent, will be ranged 
in the column of crimes when their motives and consequences are 
taken into account. And will the encouragement given to human 
slavery (that most frightful complication of crime and misery) be 
overlooked ? Will the part we have taken respecting the poor Negro 
be left out of the estimate ? Will those be held guiltless who from 
thoughtlessness or carelessness, continue to consume the produce of 
his slavery with their eyes wide open to the nature of that slavery 
which such consumption tends to perpetuate ? Can any thing be 
more in character with a christian Minister than to warn his hearers 
against such a delusion ? — more especially, because the practice is 
so general and is therefore regarded as innocent. Christians are 



LETTER IV. 57 

enjoined to be " holy and harmless, separate from sinners ;" to " keep 
themselves pure ;"" to " have no fellowship with works of darkness ;"" 
not to be " partakers of other men's sins." But by the consump- 
tion of slave produce all these injunctions are violated. 

" Ye are the salt of the earth ;" — " Ye are the light of the 
world," said our Lord to the first preachers of the Gospel. " Ye 
are the salt of the earth ;" to keep it from corruption, from becom- 
ing a mass of moral putrefaction ; to preserve the purity of chris- 
tian doctrine, the righteousness of christian practice. " Ye are the 
light of the world," — to illuminate its dark corners, to detect and 
reprove all unrighteousness. 

Had such continued to be the character of preachers of the Gos- 
pel, could human slavery, that horrid compound of all injustice, 
cruelty, and impiety, still support and exalt itself in this land of 
high christian profession, this age of pre-eminent benevolence and 
refinement ? Could it be possible that a system comprising every 
calamity and outrage which man has power to inflict upon his fellow 
man should exist in a country where Christianity is not only toler- 
ated, but established ; where temples for christian worship are pro- 
fusely scattered over the empire ; where its ministers have free ac- 
cess to all ranks of the community ; where religion " lifts her mitred 
head in Courts and Parliaments;" is suffered to raise her voice in 
the Palace as well as the Church ; to admonish the Legislature and 
the Monarch as well as the People ? 

Why the deepest crime and foulest national disgrace should, with 
a few noble exceptions, have hitherto escaped the reprobation, and 
been imagined to lie out of the sphere of the christian pulpit it were 
useless to inquire. We rejoice in the hope that the illusion is 
rapidly dissipating, and that the time is at hand when the righteous 
cause of Negro emancipation will be advocated in the right place, 
with the boldness and fidelity becoming christian ministers. We 
remember that a wild fanatic, Peter the Hermit, by his single 
preaching lighted up the flames of war all over Europe, and we 
doubt not that equal fervency and extent of zeal may be kindled by 
conscientious ministers of the true religion, in a war against oppres- 
sion and impiety which have no parallel in the civilized world ; in 

a war rightly denominated a hokj one, in wh"'ch every individual, 
possessing any just pretensions to the christian name, ought to en- 
gage with all his might. 

Some of the most distinguished dissenting ministers have already 
set the example, and we are anxiously desiring that those of the es- 
tablishment may follow the noble precedent ; not merely by giving 
their respective hearers a single sermon on the subject of slavery 
and then dismissing it ; not merely by describing the horrors of the 
system and exciting the sympathy of their hearers for its unhappy 
victims ; but by pointing out and pressing the adoption of the most 
effectual means of putting a speedy end to it ; by showing that 
I 



58 LETTER IV. 

eTcry individual, however obscure his station, or humble his talents, 
may render important assistance, may do much by his own exam- 
ple and influence towards its final destruction. 

We entreat all who are conscious of being but partially informed 
of the present character of West Indian Slavery, and are conse- 
quently deficient in arguments and facts wherewith to repel the art- 
ful misrepresentations and gross falsehoods by which it is attempted, 
but too successfully, to delude the British public into a persuasion 
that the present actual condition of colonial bondage is not only as 
little oppressive, but is, in fact, more comfortable than that of the 
Irish, or even British peasantry ; — we entreat all such to acquaint 
themselves without delay, with one of the most important docu- 
ments (just published) which has yet appeared upon the subject, 
viz. the abridged substance of some highly interesting papers re- 
cently laid before Parliament, entitled " The slave colonies of Great 
Britain ; or a picture of Negro slavery drawn by the Colonists 
themselves ;'" with a very appropriate motto, " out of thine own 
mouth zoill I judge thee.'''' 

" The picture which it exhibits of slavery is so fearful and revolt- 
ing that we might hesitate to credit the existence of the reality, 
were it not that the statements are ofiicial and emanate from the 
colonial authorities themselves. This is not a narrative of past and 
long forgotten atrocities, furbished up anew to excite the feelings of 
the British public, but a delineation of the actual state of our own 
slave colonies, at the present moment ; a narrative which tells us of 
stripes yet unhealed ; of groans which still echo around our planta- 
tions ; of tyranny to this moment unchecked in its deeds of cruelty 
and crime ; of injustice, oppression and inhumanity both private and 
legislative, bearing date not in dark ages or Pagan lands, but in 
British colonies, and with the ink scarcely dry upon the record. 
The first impression which its perusal is calculated to produce is a 
feeling of surprise and horror at the extraordinary state of society 
which it developes. In this analysis the colonists are made to de- 
scribe their own system ; the proofs of its iniquity being drawn from 
the colonial laws, from other colonial records of unquestionable au- 
thority, or from the evidence of colonial proprietors. In the ameli- 
orated slave-codes here brought before them, the public will find the 
proof, the irrefragable proof of the determined pertinacity with 
which the colonists still cleave to the worst, the most revolting de- 
formities of their system ; and the utter worthlessness of all the pre- 
tended improvements adopted by the colonial assemblies."^ 

In the postscript to these official documents an analysis is given of 
the report of the constituted guardians and protectors of the slaves, 
by which we are admitted into the interior, the very penetralia of 
the slave system,"*' from whence, among other horrific disclosures, it 

^ See " the Christian Observer, Oct. 1825"— pages e65^Q61. 



LETTER IV. &9 

will be seen what are its brutalizing effects on the female character — 
what refined barbarities it can train and habituate " Ladies''' to ex- 
ercise upon their slaves. 

In these documents the public will see that " demoralizing and 
murderous system'"' accurately portrayed for the maintenance of 
which they are burdened with imposts to the amount of annual mil- 
lions ; for the maintenance of which the lives of two thousand British 
soldiers are annually sacrificed ; for the maintenance of which Brit- 
ish commerce is fettered by impolitic and injurious restrictions ; the 
population of Ireland kept in idleness and beggary ; the interests of 
one hundred million of British subjects in India surrendered to those 
of about two thousand West Indian Planters and Merchants ! ! !*^ 

But to return to the christian pulpit. The preacher having once 
thoroughly acquainted himself with the subject of West Indian sla- 
very, having convinced himself of the unexceptionable nature and 
authority of the evidence on which the horrid enormities of the sys- 
tem are asserted, will find it no theme of barren speculation or casual 
invective, but one of deep and wide interest, fruitful of instruction 
and bearing with important weight on the grand fundamental truths 
and essential duties of Christianity. He will perceive in the modern 
history of slavery in the British dominions, in its effects especially 
upon the white colonists the free-born sons and daughters also of 
British Christendom, the most appalling illustrations of human de- 
pravity ; he will perceive the hardened callosity to which the hu- 
man heart may arrive under the petrifying influence of unrestrained 
avarice ; the profound depths of wickedness into which man may 
plunge when invested with unlimited power; the tremendous extent 
of suffering which he has the will to inflict on his fellow man ; the 
extremes of corporeal and mental anguish to which he can remorse- 
lessly consign his Brother ; the monster of cruelty and oppression, 
the abhorred instrument of pure mischief which he may become, 
when abandoned to himself, — emancipated from the restraints of 
religion, — unawed by fear, unsoftened by love of the righteous 
Governor of the universe. In the conduct of these White tyrants 
he will see terrific illustration of the natural tendency of human in- 
terests and human passions; he will see awful demonstration that 
man in his natural state, is indeed " a child of wrath" — a fit object 
of the vengeance of a holy God — even, of a God of Jove- — and will 
consequently obtain clearer perceptions of the necessity and infinite 
value of a Redeemer and a Saviour ; of a new birth and complete 
renovation of nature. He will see that " every good and perfect 
gift Cometh from above ;''' that all the virtues and all the graces 
which have ever adorned and beautified the human character are im- 
planted by the Divine spirit alone ; that every fruit of righteous- 

'■ See the luminous expositions of the impolitic and baneful effects of slavery, in 
the public speeches of the enlightened and philanthropic James Cropper, of Liver- 
pool, as reported in various provincial papers. 



60 LETTER IV. 

ness which has ever appeared in this degenerate soil, from its ear- 
liest blossom to maturity, has been the production alone of the Sun 
of Righteousness. 

We earnestly hope that conscientious Ministers of the Gospel, of 
every denomination, will no longer withhold their earnest attention 
to this momentous subject from an apprehension that it lies beyond 
the sphere of their influence. We are fully persuaded that they 
may, in a very short space of time, become the honoured instru- 
ments of ridding their country of its foulest abomination, by insti- 
gating the people of all ranks, through the most quiet and unex- 
ceptionable means, to throw down the altars of the bloody Moloc of 
slavery, to expel from British ground every vestige of its impious 
worship. We cannot, therefore, but earnestly hope they will lose 
no more time in exerting the great influence they possess over the 
people; that they will suspend, for a season, their accustomed 
course of instruction ; deviate a little from the beaten track, call the 
attention of their hearers for a time, from the principles, the ground- 
work of religion, to the contemplation of its beautiful superstruc- 
ture, — that just, and righteous and bene^cent practice to which those 
principles incite. Let them remind their hearers that He whom 
they preach, " gave himself for them that he might purify to him- 
self a peculiar people zealous of good ivorhs r that christians are 
commanded not to " touch the unclean thing T and that if Gentile 
converts were expressly enjoined by ApostoHc authority, under di- 
vine direction, to " abstain from meats offered to idols, and from 
blood,"" it can be no strained unnatural inference to conclude that 
the spirit of this prohibition must necessarily extend to an absolute 
interdiction of the voluntary consumption of the produce of slavery. 
When christian Ministers have once entered on the subject, they 
will find it no barren and circumscribed theme ; it will afford ample 
illustration of christian duty, strong and varied appeals to the hearts 
and consciences of their hearers, especially to those of the higher 
and more influential classes, to whom a wide field of interesting- 
labour may be presented, in endeavouring to spread and to keep 
alive a general interest and sympathy for the most deeply injured 
of the human race among their friends and neighbours, and in shew- 
ing by what means, relief may be most effectually administered. 
Thus would a fresh and powerful impulse be imparted to benevo- 
lence, and the warm glow of christian charity circulated from bosom 
to bosom. Thus would the rich, according to apostolic injunction, 
be admonished to " do good, to be rich in good works;" — ^new 
sources of pure satisfaction would be opened to them, in exciting 
fellow feeling and brotherly kindness in all around them, in tasting 
the luxury of beneficence ; in proving that the pleasures of sym- 
pathy far surpass those of a selfish enjoyment ; that their own hap- 
piness is augmented in proportion as they are earnestly engaged in 
promoting the welfare of others ; not that of their own neighbour- 



LETTER IV. 61 

hood and country alone, but that of the stranger, the poor captive 
in a distant land, of him who seems to have no human helper— -and 
thus, inheriting " the blessing of those who are ready to perish,'' 
and the richer blessing of Him who hath declared that a cup of cold 
water alone, imparted in christian charity, shall not lose its reward. 

The preacher, by directing the moral perceptions and religious 
principles of his hearers to the subject of West Indian slavery, will 
shew them a great work of righteousness, of justice and mercy in 
which all may engage from the highest to the lowest, and thereby 
afford substantial proof that there is hfe and power in the rehgion 
they profess ; that it is an active vigorous principle, a faith that 
works by love, which may be mighty, even in feeble hands, to the 
pulling down this strong hold of Satan, and setting at liberty eight 
hundred thousand immortal beings, the wretched victims of a two- 
fold bondage, bondage of soul as well as body, withheld alike (as 
by far the greater proportion of them are) from moral and spiritual 
as well as corporeal freedom ; kept back from the sound of the lib- 
erty of the Gospel, lest they should become more deeply sensible 
of their cruel wrongs, lest the iron yoke of oppression, the chains 
of ignorance and mental darkness, should become still more in- 
tolerable. 

We are aware that great offence may be taken at such an employ- 
ment of the christian pulpit ; at such an exposure, in such a place, 
of a system in which many persons of the first consequence and al- 
lowed respectabihty, " men of education and liberal attainments,'' 
are concerned. But that can be no sohd ground of objection to 
those who consider the great offence excited by the preaching of 
their Lord and Master on a similar occasion ; in detecting, exposing 
and reprobating " wickedness in high places," — the injustice, extor- 
tion and cruelty of scribes and pharisees, persons in their day of 
great eminence and distinction. It will be no solid ground of ob- 
jection to those who remember that the disciples were forewarned 
that the servant was not greater than his Lord, that those who had 
persecuted him would persecute them also ; that if they were of the 
world, the world would love its own, but because they were not of 
the world, therefore the world would hate them. The offence there- 
fore which may be taken by men of the world against such a pro- 
ceeding, is rather a confirmation of its consistency and propriety. 

Under existing circumstances, we can imagine no subject which 
can more worthily engage the constituted guardians of the public 
virtue, its morals and religion, than the denouncing of that anti- 
christian, execrable tyranny, which obliterates all sense of natural 
justice, every feeling of humanity, every principle of religion ; which 
hardens the hearts, and sears the consciences of its active agents and 
abettors, and subjects them to a more dreadful and hopeless bond- 
age than that of its poor victims, in as much as there is reason to 
dread its extension beyond the period of their present existence. 



62 LETTER IV. 

We can imagine nothing more truly in character with ministers 
of that rehgion which lays the axe to the root of every corrupt tree, 
than to protest, to make open war against, and to resist with all 
their might, this bold and malignant " enemy of all righteousness ;"" 
since it is apparent that the Gospel can have no " free course," can 
be glorified by none of those " mighty works," — those great exten- 
sive moral transformations which it is destined to accomplish, in any 
nation where this Anti-Christ is suffered to reign. 

What says the very temperate and candid Author of " Negro 
Slavery," in his fairest example of West Indian society (that of 
Jamaica?) '* No virtuous man ought to trust his own character, 
or that of his children, to the demoralizing effects produced by slave 
keeping. The state of morals and religion is as bad as can be im- 
agined. It is well known that the morals of nineteen out of twenty 
white men are ruined before they have been a month on the Island, 
and every idea of religion vanishes."" And what says a respectable 
Clergyman, nearly five years resident on the same Island .? " I 
shall never forget the horror and disgust which I felt on going on 
shore for the first time in Kingston, August, 1819 : it was on a 
Sunday, and I had to pass the Negro Market, where several thou- 
sands of human beings of various nations and colours, chiefly Ne- 
groes, instead of worshipping their Maker on his holy day, were 
busily employed in all kinds of traffic in the open streets. The 
different noises and barbarous tongues recalled the confusion of 
Babel, but the drunkenness of some, with the imprecations and li- 
centiousness of others, put me in mind rather of a pandemonium or 
residence of devils. I have resided nearly five years in Jamaica, 
and have preached two or three sermons almost every Sunday; 
many other clergymen have also exerted themselves, but to very 
little purpose, as these horrid legalized scenes are just the same, and 
most of the churches in the Island are nearly empty. I am aware 
there is a law in the Island, imposing a fine on proprietors or over- 
seers for compelling the Negroes to do certain kinds of labour on 
the Sabbath ; but it is notorious that this law is altogether a dead 
letter, and in Jamaica, the largest West Indian colony of highly 
favoured Christian Britain, the Sabbath is worse kept than by Turks 
themselves. It is not enough that the poor Negroes are compelled, 
on that day, to cultivate their own provision grounds to preserve 
life, (not having sufficient time otherwise allowed them) but to add 
to the abomination, a Sunday market must also be kept, which is 
the only market they have, to which they trudge like mules with 
heavy loads, five, ten, or even twenty miles. In other colonies 
where the abundant fatness of the soil has augmented the cupidity 
of the planters, the hardships of the poor Negroes are even greater 
than in Jamaica, they are very much overworked ; especially the 

" See " Negro Slavery," p. 27. 



LETTER IV. ' 63 

jobbing gangs (out of whose labour fortunes have been made in a 
short time.) These gangs have been compared, very aptly, to over 
driven horses : the poor slaves composing them, may certainly, with- 
out exaggeration, be compared to the London hachs. A double 
price is paid for them, and they are worked so very much, that they 
do not last long. It is gold versus life.'''' 

" Were the colonists inclined to make any material beneficial 
changes in the slave code, neither the British Government nor Brit- 
ish people would think of interfering ; but experience teaches that 
their professions with respect to their slaves, are unmeaning and 
empty, and that even the few concessions that have been wrung from 
them are not bona fide fulfilled. Witness tJie'ir not allow'mg them 
time to attend places of worship on Sundays. Witness the non-re- 
dress of their just complaints for severity and cruelty of punishment. 
Witness the preventing those of the curates who wished to attend on 
some of the estates to preach and to catechise, from doing so, and 
thereby shutting the door of instruction 07i the poor slaves altogether.'''* 

" It must indeed be plain to every impartial person, that the 
colonists do not intend to lighten the hardships of their slaves. 
Their principal object is to h:eep them in total ignorance, and to 
compel them to raise the greatest possible quantity of produce ; for 
they calculate thus — if we do away ivith the Sunday marJcet, there 
must be more time given to the sla,ves, and our own crops will fall 
short ; if we allow them to be instructed, it will take a little more 
time, and the Negroes will also know too much to be content ! They 
therefore do, and will, oppose all 'interference by the British Par- 
liament, because they wish, and intend, at all hazards, to keep the 
slaves and their descendants in perpetual bondage.''"'^ 

This writer farther observes, that " many colonial clergymen are 
anxious to advance the knowledge of religion, but are prevented 
through the general profanation of the Sabbath, and the labouring 
and marketing of the Negroes on that day. Some who have at- 
tempted to introduce reforms, have been stigmatised as Methodists ; 
and it is scarcely scfe for them to venture to preach against gross 
immorality. Sabbath breaking,"' &c. 

Let it be remembered that this is the report of an impartial resi- 
dent eye witness of the existing state of things in the Island of Ja- 
maica. The striking illustrations given by this conscious writer (in 
addition to the ferocious transactions at Barbadoes and Demerara) 
of the determined and malignant hostility which the slave system 
bears to religion is a loud call upon its conscientious ministers to in- 
terpose their influence, to use their utmost exertions to purify the 
British atmosphere from this moral pestilence which sheds a blight 
and a mildew upon every opening blossom of virtue, and forces into 

" See " the West Indies as they are," by the Rev. R. Bickell, pages 64, 67, Q%, 
71' 137, 138. ' i 5 ' ' » 



64 LETTER IV. 

rapid and monstrous growth every poisonous shoot of vice. So 
active and insinuating is the demorahzing contagion engendered by 
slavery, that it seems to operate by a kind of magic ; — virtue be- 
comes vice ;— even piety herself becomes impious on breathing the 
tainted atmosphere ; or, if she be firm and hardy enough to resist 
the malignant contagion, she then becomes the object oi persecution 
unto death. How has the Christian standard been lowered and de- 
graded which has from time to time been raised in the land of sla- 
very ! How have evil communications corrupted good manners in 
certain Methodist missionaries, who, through the tamperings of in- 
terest or the blandishments of flattery, have been disinherited of 
their reason, shorn of their strength, — have suffered their shield, 
the awful egis of christian truth, to be basely cast away, and instead 
of denouncing woes against the worshippers, instead of " crying out 
against the altars'" of this most impious of all the idol gods of satanic 
devotion, have dared to arraign and condemn the veteran band of 
abolitionists, have traduced and blasphemed the sacred cause they 
engaged to advocate by asserting that Christianity has no hostility 
to skvery ; have themselves joined the Priests of this Baal, — ^liave 
become the apologists and defenders of the execrable system of 
West Indian tyranny, and have impiously dared to assert its com- 
patibihty with the divine will. How deep then must be the poison 
of that moral infection which can transform christian missionaries 
into priests of Baal 9 — the " salt of the earth"" into the means of its 
corruption ? For the honour of the Methodist body, it is to be 
hoped that these accommodating, time serving missionaries have 
been expelled from its membership. But we cannot withhold from 
our readers the following short extract from a sermon recently ad- 
dressed by a Missionary (said to be in that connexion) to a slave 
audience, in presence, no doubt, of their taskmasters, with which 
the advocates of West Indian slavery have presented the public/ 
illustrative of the blessings of slavery. 

" It ought to be remembered that the situation of life in which 
Providence has placed you is not without its comforts ; for when 
you have performed your appointed work, you are happily delivered 
from all anxiety and tormenting care, and can return to your hum- 
ble cabins with confidence, being assured that no creditor will be 
there claiming the httle property you possess ; — no sick wife or child 
will be there, without the aid of medicine, and if required, of a 
nurse; — neither will your children meet you at your doors with 
looks expressive of starvation and pierce your hearts with cries of 
hunger. No, such scenes of misery are not to be found in 7/our 
dwellings, ^'Jhr your bread is given you, and your water is sure^^ 
Was there ever a more shocking profanation of the sacred text 
than thus to employ it in confirmation of a lie f For can there be 

y See the small tract before adverted to, addressed " To the consumers of sugar.*' 
2 Isaiah xxxiii. 16. 



LETTER IV. 65 

a lie more palpable than the inference which is made to follow this 
exordium, that the comforts and blessings of slavery are greater 
than those of the free born British peasantry ? Of what kind is the 
bread that is given, and the waters that are sure, to the West In- 
dian slave ? Is it not bread of affliction and water of affliction ? 
Are not their lives embittered with hard bondage ? Are not their 
bodies lacerated with whips and galling chains ? disfigured with 
brand-marks ? Are they not bought and sold like cattle ? Are 
they not considered and treated in all respects Hke beasts of burden ? 
And what are the comforts of their " humble cabins ?" What is 
the care they experience in sickness ? What food is provided them 
in health ? The Author of " The West Indies as they are," has 
informed us, " of the great care taken of the slaves in sickness, and 
of the boasted frequent attendance of medical men on the different 
properties. I have (says he) never seen any very flattering speci- 
mens, though I have been on a great many plantations, and have 
seen plenty of doctors. Their hospitals, or hot-houses (as they are 
very aptly styled) are, generally speaking, filthy receptacles. On 
most estates the hospital consists of a confined room with an earthen 
floor; on which is a platform of boards, upon which the sick lie 
down in their clothes. The hot-house is often the place where the 
Negroes are also confined in the stocks ; so that it is both hospital 
and gaol. They have not the comfortable cottage of the English 
peasant, which no one dares to enter without permission. No, in 
his mud built hut, without a window or a chimney, on two or three 
boards, or on the floor itself, the Negro slave lies down on his mat, 
very often uncovered ; and if he wants a little fire, as in the moun- 
tains he sometimes will, he must light his few sticks in the open air, 
and sit upon his heels shivering by them. As to food, the quantity 
in most cases is sufficient, (were it otherwise, they would be unable 
to perform the labour required of them) but in the quality, none 
but a bigotted low minded planter, or some interested professional 
resident, would compare the coarse yams and cocoas, and stringy 
indigestible plantains, with a few bad or rotten herrings, to the 
wholesome bread, potatoes, and other fine vegetables which the 
Enghsh cottager enjoys. I have seen a good deal of the English 
poor and can conscientiously say, that I never saw any one even a 
pauper, who lived in the mean hoggish way that the slaves in the 
West Indies do ; and moreover, that if such coarse food as the ne- 
groes generally eat were offered them, they would reject it as unfit 
for human beings ; English stomachs could not well digest it.'' 

Such are the bodili/ " comforts'' of slavery ; what are its spiri- 
tual blessings we have before enquired. But we return to the pe- 
culiar hostility which the system bears to Christianity. We are told, 
that in spite of all the great obstacles with which it is surrounded 
in the West Indies, it is now making rapid progress, and English 
liberality is appealed to, in various directions, to enable the Mora- 

K 



QQ LETTER IV. 

vians to extend their settlements on several estates to which the pro- 
prietors have invited them. It is a matter of heart-felt rejoicing 
that the preaching of the Gospel in the land where " Satan's sect 
(pre-eminently) is," should not be unaccompanied with its renova- 
ting power. — We have listened with delight to the unvarnished his- 
tories of its transforming efficacy upon the hearts and lives of the 
despised Negro, but we consider such particular instances of its 
success as no argument against the general hostility which the sys- 
tem of slavery bears to Christianity. 

Even the Moravians, who stand so deservedly high in the de- 
voted bands of christian Missionaries, whose patient, judicious, self- 
denying labours are more tolerated, more encouraged by the Plan- 
ters, than those of any other persuasion, — " because of advantage,'' 

because of the evident benefit which the slave owner thereby 

derives in the increased value of his slave property ; because his 
vassals thereby become more profitable, more patient of toil, more 
trust worthy ; because they have thereby learnt the divine art of 
returnino- good for evil ; even these devoted messengers of the Gos- 
pel escape* not unhurt by the infectious atmosphere of slavery. 
They imagine themselves under the sad necessity of exhibiting the 
glorious liTminary of the Gospel, as " the sun, shorn of his beams, 
— seen through a horizontal gloomy mist ^ — they imagine them- 
selves under the sad necessity — though not of " handling the word 
of life deceitfully" — yet of administering it partially/ ; inculcating 
upon the oppressed slave, its gentleness, meekness and long-suffering, 
but withholding from his oppressor the terrible woes which it de- 
nounces against injustice and oppression. 

The first messengers of the Gospel who bore its glad tidings to a 
benighted enslaved world were forewarned that they should be 
brought before rulers. Their commission was to preach repentance 
to all; — to declare the zvhole counsel of God ; to lay the axe to the 
root of every corrupt tree ; to " pull down wickedness in high (as 
well as low) places." The incestuous -Herod was boldly reproved 
by the Baptist ; Peter and John, when forbidden by the Jewish 
priests and rulers to preach the new doctrine, replied with holy 
magnanimity — " whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken 
unto you more than unto God judge ye;" and they waxed bolder 
and bolder from the opposition they encountered. But though the 
same courage and zeal have directed many devoted Missionaries to 
our West Indian shores, the air is so tainted, so heavily surcharged 
with moral poison, that the nerves even of christian courage relax ; 
— the truth instead of being preached to all, without respect of per- 
sons, must, in this land of civilized barbarians, (more fiercely hostile 
to Christianity than Pagan savages) — be preached to the poor Negro 
alone, and that by stealth or connivance. To preach the pure doc- 
trines of the Gospel to slave-holders — to speak to them even of the 
rights of common justice and humanity would seem to be rushing 



LETTER IV. 67 

into the very jaws of destruction. Yet, had these Missionaries 
relied less on human prudence and more upon " the God of Daniel,"" 
who shut the lion's mouths; who, in former ages (and His power 
is ever the same) caused his devoted servants, " out of weakness to 
be made strong," to " wax valiant in nght"" — and, though few in 
number " to turn to flight the armies of the aliens ;"'* who disarmed 
the flames of their power to burn ; who caused His servants to 
walk unhurt in the midst of the burning fiery furnace, " heated 
seven times hotter than it was v»^ont to be heated :"— peradven- 
ture, the horrid Moloc of slavery had Igng since been abandoned, 
its bloody altars thrown down, and a decree, passed under the 
force of irresistible conviction, had gone forth from the colonial 
legislators themselves, announcing the year of jubilee, proclaiming' 
christian instead of martial law, the reign of justice, of righteous- 
ness and peace. But " the fear of man bringeth a snare"'— a dan- 
gerous, a fatal snare. Our modern Missionaries, with the timidity 
as well as harmlessness of the dove ; — restrict themselves by certain 
laws and prudential resolutions, not to be found in the scriptural di- 
rectory, not to meddle with the established order of things ; — -not at 
all to interfere between the master and the slave ; to confine them- 
selves wholly to the spiritual concerns of the latter ; never attempt- 
ing to arrest the arm of lawless power or to restrain its merciless inflic- 
tions ; to say to the cruel tyrant — " it is not lawful for thee""' thus 
to degrade, to oppress, to torture thy fellow creature, — thy brother: 
— never reminding the lordly usurper that it is not lawful for him 
to make merchandize of human beings, to treat immortal intelli- 
gences as brute animals ; never warning him that it is at his own 
peril that he scourges and chains his over laboured defenceless vic- 
tims ; that he is thereby " heaping to himself wrath against the day 
of wrath ;" that " he shall have judgment without mercy who hath 
shewn no mercy ;" that " the same measure'"* which he is now meting 
to the slave will certainly be " meted to him again." No, the Mis- 
sionary says nothing of all this to the slave-holder. ''No, it would 
be imprudent, it would be madness to do so '; it would utterly de- 
feat the object of his mission and involve himself in certain ruin." 
But is not this " reasoning with flesh and blood ?" Is not this 
" the fear of man (which) bringeth a snare ?" A snare indeed it 
hath brought ; — " Israel flees before his enemies ;" — " the ark is 
taken ;" — " the Philistines triumph." In one British colony, a 
christian temple is rased to the ground — its Minister made to fly 
for his life, and proclamation issued to forbid his return on pain of 
instant destruction ; in another, an exemplary Missionary is ar- 
raigned for treason, tried by court Martial, condemned — and left to 
perish in prison ! ! — Persecution more fierce or cruel than this, could 
hardly have been anticipated had the Gospel been preached to the 
slave-holder as well as the slave. 



68 LETTER IV. 

What an imperfect mutilated picture of Christianity is exhibited 
when its obligations are enforced upon the poor slave alone ! The 
commission of its Divine author was to " preach the Gospel to every 
creature.'''' — That Gospel preaches to the afflicted and the oppressed, 
patience and submission ; it imparts blessings to the poor, the meek 
and the persecuted; but its preaching is also " to humble the pride, 
to abase the haughtiness of man f to disarm the tyrant of his 
power ; to break the rod of oppression ; — " to bring down the 
mountains and to exalt the valhes f ''- — to establish justice, righteous- 
ness and mercy in the earth. 

But the unmutilated Gospel in th'is highly privileged portion of 
the British dominions may still be preached without hazard to the 
highest as well as lowest of the community, none daring to make the 
boldest asserters of its uncompromising requirements afraid. Here 
slavery, the most daring and impious of all contemners of the laws 
both of God and man, may be safely attacked from the christian 
pulpit — from thence also it may be successfully attacked and have 
its death blow speedily administered. 

" Thirty-six years have elapsed since the rights of the slave have 
occupied the anxious attention of the people of England ; twenty 
years since the British Legislature distinctly warned the slave 
owners that it was resolved to better their condition ; seventeen 
years since the Law lifted up its voice to command that right and 
justice be done them."" 

" Not one step, however, has yet been made towards a com- 
pliance with these warnings, or an obedience to this command. 
How much longer then are we to wait in the expectation of these in- 
fatuated men listening to us, and rousing themselves from that im- 
plicit reliance upon our carelessness, or timidity, or ijjsincerity, 
which it m.ust be owned our conduct has been too well calculated to 
engender .^^""^ 

Is it not high time to resort to other more decisive and effective 
measures ? Is it not high time that christians, (those to whom the 
name truly belongs) should combine all their efforts — should concen- 
trate all the force of their moral and christian principles in the strenu- 
ous use of every means whereby themselves and their country may 
be soonest purged of this deep pollution ? Is it not, most especially 
high time for *' the Priests, the Ministers of the Lord,'' to interpose, 
that this moral plague may be stayed, before this highly favoured 
land be smitten with a curse, with a worse than Egyptian blindness 
and obduracy ? of which indeed there are already alarming symp- 
toms. 

Let the worshippers of Mammon propose a league with this " ene- 
my of all righteousness" — try to modify and restrain and accommo- 
date its operations to political interests and state expediency, but let 

■■' See the Edinburgh Review, for March 1825, p. 214. 



LETTER V. 69 



christian Ministers give it no quarter, but like Samuel, of old, hew 
this impious Agag in pieces, which, exults as he did, in the confi- 
dence that the bitterness of death is over." 



LETTER V. 

ON THE IMPORTANCE OF ASSOCIATIONS FOR THE PURPOSE 
OF OBTAINING THE CO-OPERATION OF THE HUMBLER 
CLASSES. 

We proceed to the recommendation of an expedient for exciting a 
deeper and more general interest in the extinction of slavery, which 
is of no doubtful or mere imaginary utility. We have positive proof 
that it is no romantic fruitless attempt to persuade people to substi- 
tute East for West India sugar before the equahzation of the duties 
upon both articles shall have rendered the former the cheaper of the 
two. 

It must be distinctly stated, that the experiment has been already 
made to a sufficient extent to justify, and as far as it has been tried, 
to exceed the expectations of its most sanguine advocates. 

In one large manufacturing town, a very few individuals, in the 
course of a few weeks, by the employment of only a few hours in 
the day in personal visits among their neighbours, obtained the wil- 
ling promises of about two thousand famihes, entirely to abstain 
from that time forward from all farther consumption of West Indian 
sugar so long as West Indian slavery continued to exist. Similar 
visits have been made with similar success in other towns and vil- 
lages, but the zeal of the visitors has been not a little damped by 
the consideration, that unless such a plan of operation becomes 
general, they may devote every hour of every day of their lives to 
this occupation, and yet, the labour, with regard to its ultimate ob- 
ject, prove altogether vain ; since the subtraction of a few thousands 
from fourteen million consumers of British plantation sugar in the 
united Kingdom, would produce no perceptible change in the con- 
dition of its wretched cultivators. It seems however sufficiently 
evident, from the above experiment, that the extension of these per- 
sonal visits, especially among the humbler classes, for the purpose 
of conveying information on the subject of West Indian slavery, and 
on the support it derives from our consumption of its produce, would 
effect an important change in the condition of the cultivators — and 
prove also, that there is yet among us a large portion of moral prin- 
ciple, right feeling, and christian charity. But, for the prompt ex- 
ercise of that moral principle, right feeling, and christian charity, 
with regard to the great object in question, truth obliges us to con- 



70 LETTER V. 

fess that they will be sought for most successfully among the poor 
and labouring classes. Their superiors in station and intelligence 
should blush to hear, that whilst they themselves are unfeelingly or 
thoughtlessly gratifying their appetite with slave produce, objecting, 
as many of the more opulent do, to the substitution of East for West 
India sugar because they consider it a little more expensive^ — that 
not one in ten of their poor neiglibours, who has been informed upon 
the subject, hesitates to declare the resolution to take no more slave 
cultivated sugar, though the sacrifice of a penny is much more to 
them than that of a pound to the rich economist ; — to hear moreover 
that many of them express an entire willingness to abstain from 
sugar altogether^ should the supply of East India ever fall short of 
the demand, rather than contribute in ever so small a degree to the 
encouragement of slavery. To this class of consumers, whose bill 
of fare is so scanty, it should be remembered that the relinquishment 
of sugar would be no inconsiderable privation, and the paying only 
SL penny per pound more for East India, than they have been accus- 
tomed to pay for West India sugar (though of an inferior quality) 
is no contemptible sacrifice to principle on their part. Of the value 
of a penny to thousands and tens of thousands in this land of opu- 
lence, many of the higher and middle ranks have little idea. It 
may appear both cruel and absurd to engage the poor in this con- 
federacy against West India sugar, especially as their individual 
consumption is comparatively so trifling ; but the apathy which so 
generally prevails among the higher and middle ranks, has forced 
the determined advocates for a speedy extinction of slavery upon 
this expedient, quite satisfied that there is nothing in it either cruel 
or absurd, since it is to them perfectly clear, from the common prin- 
ciples of justice, that we have none of us any right to retain our 
gratifications, our comforts, or even our health, at the expense of 
the comfort, the health, the liberty and the lives of our unoffending 
fellow creatures. 

Nothing but personal observation can fully demonstrate the effi- 
cacy of these personal appeals to the humanity of the humbler classes 
in the cause of Negro emancipation. It would be too much impli- 
citly to rely on all the engagements made in this quarter, for ever 
to renounce the use of slave-cultivated sugar, though they were 
perfectly voluntary ; but on the greater proportion the visitors can- 
not hesitate to depend, they were made with such evident sincerity 
and earnestness. Those who have heartily engaged in this work, 
find no draw-back from the great satisfaction with which it is attend- 
ed, but that arising from the want of general co-operation, and the 
coldness and opposition they have to encounter where encourage- 
ment and support might most reasonably have been expected. But 
coldness and opposition in one quarter should incite to greater zeal 
and perseverance in another. 

It seems evident to demonstration, to those who have made this 



LETTER V. 71 

experiment, that a general extension of these simple missionary la- 
bours among the humbler classes would do much to expedite the 
great work of emancipation. By this means the consumption of 
slave-cultivated sugar might be greatly diminished, and the resist- 
ance of self-interest to the extinction of slavery would necessarily 
diminish in exact proportion to the diminution of its profits ; by this 
means the people might be more generally incited to more earnest 
petitions for a speedy emancipation ; and should the present Par- 
liament fail to accomplish the work, the exertions in question would 
do much to prepare the way, at the next general Election, for the 
choice of a Parliament more unanimous and devoted to the cause ; 
they would do much towards deciding the great body of electors to 
withhold their suffrages from every candidate who refused to pledge 
himself to vote for a prompt and complete extinction of British 
colonial slavery. How then can those who attach such important 
consequences to the extension of these simple exertions, refrain from 
inviting those who are themselves surrounded with all the bounties 
of a kind Providence, blessed with hearts to sympathize with the 
oppressed and miserable, with leisure and ability to plead their 
cause ; — how can they refrain from soliciting such earnestly to en- 
gage in this profitable and delightful employment ? — ^profitable and 
delightful they will certainly find it. Those who enter heartily into 
it, will find it attended by an abundant reward, will feel the force 
of that divine benediction — " Blessed are the merciful, for they shall 
obtain mercy.'' 

To a few individuals, the labour of visiting every family in a large 
town, for the purpose of communicating information on the subject 
of slavery (whether by the dissemination of tracts or by verbal in- 
telligence), m.ay appear insurmountable ; but the most difficult 
work is rendered easy by methodical arrangement and a proper di- 
vision of labour. Were large towns divided into districts on the 
plan of the Auxihary Bible Societies, the field for individual exer- 
tion might be circumscribed within easy limits ; and were proper 
means employed by such as are most interested in the cause in their 
own respective neighbourhoods, a suflScient number of willing agents 
would doubtless present themselves. There is no novelty to object 
to in this mode of proceeding. When people are in earnest — when 
the business is urgent, canvassing is commonly resorted to. And 
what business, to a christian philanthropist, can be imagined more 
urgent than that of putting a speedy end to the crimes and miseries 
of West-Indian slavery — of rescuing eight hundred thousand fellow 
creatures and fellow subjects from the lowest abyss of moral and 
physical degradation and wretchedness ? This great deliverance, it 
is evident, may be accelerated by simple means, were they brought 
into general operation. It does not appear to be the Divine will 
that this work should be accomplished without human agency. Hu- 
man agency strenuously resists this righteous undertaking, and hu- 



73 LETTER V. 

man agency must strenuously counteract that resistance. Instead, 
therefore, of entering into nice calculations to ascertain what exact 
proportion of diminished consumption of West India sugar would 
effect its object, let us rather strive to secure such a general rejec- 
tion of it as shall at once carry full conviction to the slave-holder 
that there is no longer a market, on British ground, for that luxury, 
the consumption of which constitutes the main prop of his execra- 
ble tyranny, against which, British feeling and British virtue are at 
length up in arms, determined to give it no quarter. 

Information to the humbler classes on the subject in question is 
not lost labour, like too much of that bestowed on their superiors in 
knowledge and station. They do not admit the strong claims of 
justice, the clear rights of humanity, without making any rational 
exertions to enforce them ; they do not listen to powerful arguments, 
eloquent appeals in behalf of the poor Negro, without putting forth 
a finger to lighten his heavy burdens. No, the simple story of his 
aggravated wrongs is sufficient to excite their sympathy, — the sim- 
ple information of the means whereby those wrongs may be redress- 
ed, is sufficient, with them, to determine their prompt and earnest 
adoption. 

On this rough but impressible ground every touch of the moral 
artist will tell ; — a very few skilful strokes will produce an effect 
more striking and durable than those which with greater labour 
and ingenuity are impressed upon a smoother and more polished 
surface. 

Besides the evident tendency of the work we so earnestly recom- 
mend to promote its immediate object, it is profitable on other ac- 
counts. It dispels misapprehension and prejudice from the minds 
of the visitors, opens them to conviction, reveals the true character 
of the humbler ranks of the community, of which so unworthy and 
false an estimate is often drawn by those who keep aloof from their 
habitations, and too often condemn a whole class for the misconduct 
of a few individuals. It enables the visitors to estimate more justly 
their own characters, to weigh their own great advantages against 
the great disadvantages of their poor neighbours — and to blush at 
the comparison, when they see, as they often will, that the one talent 
intrusted to the poor is often turned to better account than the five 
or the ten committed to their superiors in station and education. 
These visits are, of course, sometimes painfully as well as pleasura- 
bly interesting. The varied pictures they present of humble life 
have their dark as well as Ught shades. They reveal scenes of pri- 
vation and suffering little suspected by the prosperous to exist in 
this favoured country ; sometimes, doubtless, the consequence of 
vice or improvidence, — often, of inevitable misfortune borne with 
edifying patience and resignation. These visits have also this great 
recommendation, that they excite a kindly feeling of sympathy and 
mutual good-will, which ought to subsist between all the gradations 



LETTER V. 73 

of a christian community from the highest to the lowest. They 
improve the moral. perceptions, enlarge the field of christian benev- 
olence, expand the breast of christian charity, open fresh channels of 
usefulness, and shew how much more may be done in this portion of 
the vineyard than many imagine. They tend moreover to abate 
that pride and self-complacency so common and so natural to those 
who are raised ever so little above the common level. They are a 
practical conformity to the apostohc injunction, not to mind high 
things, but to condescend to men of low estate. Those who are in- 
credulous respecting the efficacy of these visits have only to make the 
experiment themselves, in order to be convinced that this is no ex- 
aggerated statement of their utility. 

Let those among the higher and middle ranks who persist in the 
use of West India sugar, reflect for a moment, how much their re- 
sistance obstructs the motion of that simple yet powerful machinery 
which humanity has constructed for accelerating her great object. 
Those wheels which seem to drag and move so heavy would run 
with easy and rapid motion towards the accomplishment of their de- 
sign, were this clog of opposition withdrawn. Until it is withdrawn, 
the machinery will have to encounter much wear and tear, and a 
double portion of energy will be requisite in its main-springs and chief 
movers in order to counteract this resistance. 

The arduous, though interesting and profitable employment of 
canvassing, on this important business, from house to house, which 
it is to be hoped will soon become general throughout the kingdom, 
may be encountered with many a sneer of contempt or ridicule by 
such as can be patient, laborious and persevering in nothing but 
their own interest or pleasure ; but the true Christian, though he 
may not himself have time, or opportunity to join this little band 
of humble pedestrians, will be careful to throw no discouragement 
in their way. He will remember how many great effects have re- 
sulted from apparently slight causes. He will remember that it is 
" not by might or by power" but often by very humble instruments 
that the great work of righteousness is promoted. He knows that 
the " still small voice"" of compassion and fellow feeling which is 
scarcely audible to the ambitious and the mercenary, is distinctly- 
heard by many who are of little account either in their own or in 
others'* estimation. He knows that " foolish things,— things that 
are not — are (sometimes) chosen to confound the wise, and to bring 
to nought things that are." 

The cause of emancipation has been pleaded in the Senate by the 
wise, the eloquent, the noble. Now it is pleaded in the workshop 
and the cottage by women and children.'' And if it please the 

^ In the course of these missionary visits, children have been observed to pay par- 
ticular attention to the unvarnished story of West Indian oppression, and in some 
instances, to encourage their parents not to use the produce of that oppression.. A 
correspondent says, ♦* The little son of a Clergyman (warmly interested in the 
L 



74 LETTER V. 

Great Controller of all things, who accomplishes His purposes " by 
many or by few," by weak as well as by mighty instruments ; if it 
please Him to accompany these feeble efforts, these apparently inad- 
equate and trifling exertions with his blessing, — doubtless they will 
prosper. 

Here is a frightful monster, of enormous magnitude and strength 
to be destroyed, v/hich has for ages desolated some of the fairest 
portions of the earth ; blasted with mahgnant breath the virtue and 
the happiness of millions of human beings : — hitherto, like the great 
Leviathan, it has scorned and derided all the attacks of its adver- 
saries. " Its heart is hard as the nether mill-stone ;"' — darts are 
counted as stubble ; it laugheth at the shaking of a spear ; it 
maketh derision of the strong shafts of truth, the arrows of consci- 
ence. " It esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood ;"" — 
the force of reason, the claims of justice, the authority of revelation, 
it setteth utterly at nought. But the monster does not hve upon 
air ; though he keeps in his strong holds, he cannot subsist without 
nourishment, and of that the weakest of his adversaries may help to 
deprive him. Though he is invulnerable to direct attack, scorns 
aUke the declamation of the orator, the argument of the moralist, 
and the authority of religion,— he may yet be subdued and van- 
quished hy fasting ; by this means the most savage and destructive 
monsters have been rendered tame and innoxious; and thus, the 
most savage and destructive of all monsters, brute or human, if 
vanquished by no other means, may be starved to death. 

The People have combined to nourish and to pamper this pest of 
civilized society ; this impious contemner of the laws both of God 
and man ; and the People must combine in its destruction. 

Hitherto, it has subsisted upon the unremunerated toil, the tears, 
the groans, and the blood of millions of human beings. The chief 
production and support of all that oppression and suffering (the 
sweet juice of the sugar cane) has hitherto been thoughtlessly con- 
sumed by a People calling themselves christians, boasting of their 
refinement, their humanity, proud of their own hberty. But they 
can thoughtlessly consume it no longer ; the faithful delineation of 
the horrid system of slave cultivation precludes for ever the thought- 
less consumption of its produce; and those who persist in its con- 
sumption prove their pretensions to superior refinement and hu- 
manity to be vain boasting, — their vaunted love of freedom, to be 
mere selfish exultation in the possession of their own rights, a..d 
cruel indifference to the rights of others. 

But though the majority of the higher and middle ranks of so- 
ciety should continue to discourage the exertions which it is the ob- 
ject of these pages to recommend ; it is evident, from the experi- 

cause,) collected subscriptions for the *' Female Negro Society ;" — his sister, onlj 
seven years of age, would go, if permitted by her Parents, to every Cottage in the 
neighbourhood to persuade the people to leave off slave sugar." 



LETTER V. 75 

■ment adverted to, that there is a wide field in which they may 
nevertheless be successfully made. 

The result of personal visits among the poor and labouring classes 
especialivs has been, that more than nine out of ten families have 
cheerfully adopted the resolution entirely to abstain from the con- 
sumption of West India sugar. 

We rejoice in the intelligence that associations for carrying this 
object into more extensive execution are rapidly spreading in vari- 
ous parts of the Kingdom. In Birmingham and its neighbourhood, 
in Worcester, in Sheffield, in Colchester, Wednesbury, Calne, &c. 
and we cannot more effectually promote their extension than by 
presenting the public with the following copy of the resolutions pas- 
sed at the last mentioned Town, orioinatinoj with the wife of a 
highly respectable Clergyman, which express a tenderness of feeling, 
fervour of zeal and enlightened philanthropy, which should, in &uch 
a cause, animate every christian bosom. 

" At a meeting of Ladies, held in Calhe, the 11th of August, 
1825, the following resolutions were proposed and approved. 

1st — =That we form ourselves into a society for aiding the cause of Negro emanci- 
pation, and for procuring the protection of the British law for all of the African race 
who are living under the British donriinion, and who iu 1825 are permitted, bj ek- 
LiOHTENED CHiiisTiAN B.siTAix to tastc of whatever is most painful and dishonour- 
ing in the bitterness of slavery. 

2nd. — That all persons subscribing from 5s. to 12s. and upwards yearly, or two 
guineas at one time, be memters of this association, and be entitled to receive one 
copy of the Anti-slavery Reporter. 

3rd That the business of this society be conducted by a Treasurer, two Secreta- 
ries and a Committee of eight district collectors, who shall have power to add to 
their number; and three of whom shall be competent to act: and that the Trea- 
surer and Secretaries be members of the Committee in virtue of their office. 

4th That the Committee shall meet once a quarter on a day to be fixed by 

themselves; and that there be an annual meeting of this society, when the accounts 
shall be presented, the proceedings of the last year reported, and the Treasurer, 
Secretaries, Committee and assistant Visitors be chosen for the ensuing year. 

5th.— That the Members of this society will encourage by their example, as well 
as by their influence, the use of the pro-^uce of free labour in preference to that of 
slave labour ; and that the collectors, and visitors, be requested to recommend to 
the inhabitants of the several districts into which this iown and Neighbourhood 
shall be divided, to adopt the same measure. 

6th That it be the special business of the Committee to disseminate throughout 

this place and neighbourhood, and wherever their influence shall extend, authentic 
information respectini? the nature and baneful eifects of the present system of sla- 
very, particularly in our own West India Colonies ; and that they are authorized 
(subject to the ap[)roval of a general meeting) to adopt such farther measures as shall 
appear to them to be calculated to forward the objects of this society. 

7th That every Member of this society be furnished with the Supplement and 

Postscript to the Koyal Jamaica Gazette of the 2lst of June, 1823, and with Mr. 



76 LETTER VI. 

Clarkson's Arguments founded on the same, and from time to time with such other- 
documents as may serve to shew the evils of slavery, and the guilt of England in 
continuing a system, the parent of so many crimes. 

8th. — That deeply impressed with the extremity of wretchedness endured by the 
deserted Negro Slaves who are worn out with labour or incurable disease, this asso- 
ciation will apply some portion of its funds to the alleviation of their distress 
through the medium, in the first instance of the association for the relief of dis- 
tressed Negroes in Antigua. 

9th. — That this society will continue its exertions in aid of the cause of Negro 
Emancipation, till the time may come when the unhappy children of Africa shall no 
longer be treated as beasts, no longer be bought and sold and branded like cattle ; 
and when the torturing and degrading cart whip shall no longer fall on the persons 
of helpless Negro Slaves: and when the Negro Mother, living undei British Gov- 
ernment, shall press a free born infant in her arms." 

Lest the zealous originator of these admirable resolutions should 
be mistaken for an advocate oi gradual emancipation, we will ven- 
ture to quote her own words on the subject in a letter to a Friend. 
" Men may propose only gradually to abolish the worst of crimes, 
and only mitigate the most cruel bondage, but why should zee coun- 
tenance such enormities by speaking of them in such acquiescing, un- 
scriptural, heartless terms ?—li we hope for the blessing of God on 
our undertaking, we must not talk o^ gradually abohshing murder, 
licentiousness, cruelty, tyranny, keeping stolen men, parting hus- 
bands and wives, &c. &c. / trust no Ladies' association will ever he 
found with such words attached to it.''"' 



LETTER VL 

TO THE FRIENDS OF IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. 

Finally, we call upon all whose judgments are convinced, whose 
heads and hearts approve the proposition of immediate emancipation, 
to be bold in advocating it ; to beware of that spurious candour, that 
pusillanimous courtesy which compromises principle, and betrays 
weakness or insincerity. A cause so righteous and so urgent should 
be supported with dignity and firmness, as well as zeal. If the encou- 
ragement of slavery by the voluntary consumption of its produce be 
criminal in you, it is also criminal in others : if they are unconscious 
of its guilt, it is your duty by every means in your power to awaken 
the conviction. 

When the consequences of this practice are taken into the ac- 
count, we can imagine few more directly opposed to the sacred rule 
of doing to others as we would they should do unto us, consequent- 
ly, fevv' more criminal. Those who contend for its innocence, after 
being acquainted with the real nature of that iniquitous system 
which it tends directly to encourage and perpetuate, must substitute 



LETTER VI. 77 

vain imaginations in the place of realities ; must behold the awful 
characters of Justice and Righteousness in masquerade, their inflex- 
ible aspect and unbending attitude exchanged for indiscriminating 
smiles and unbounded accommodation. 

After the broad exposure of the complicated vvickedness of sla- 
very, we cannot but regard the consumption of its produce as a 
wilful aiding and abetting of that complicated wickedness ; we can- 
not but regard the exhibition of that produce for sale in this en- 
lightened and christian country as a mark of barbarism, a reproach 
and stigma upon the national character. We have no moral right 
to the productions of slavery ; they are, in the very worst sense, 
stolen goods, and the receiver or purchaser, knowing them to be 
stolen, is as guilty as the thief. 

This language may be considered as intemperate and offensive, 
but truth requires it. By a misplaced liberality, an unvrillingness 
to sit in judgment upon others, with regard to the practice in ques- 
tion, the requisitions of humanity and justice are compromised to 
politeness, to the arbitrary claims of what is falsely called good 
maimers. The best manners taught in the christian school, are 
those which on a subject so important, teach every man to " speak 
the truth to his neighbour.^' It is cowardice and treachery, in such 
a cause, to withhold it. It is better to offend than to flatter where 
there is no alternative. Those who have seen the consumption of 
slave produce to be criminal, are bound, by consistency, to protest 
against it as such, by every method of temperate reasoning and 
gentle remonstrance which is best calculated to convince. 

The consistent friends of immediate emancipation will not pusil- 
lanimously yield to the prevailing disposition to keep the subject in 
the back ground, but will watch for opportunities of introducing it, 
" In season, out of season." Those who are sincere in this righteous 
cause will be earnest ; their earnestness is the only test of their sin- 
cerity. To say to the destitute, " Be ye warmed and be ye clothed," 
without affording the means of relief, is the language of cant and 
hypocrisy — and to be professed advocates for immediate emancipa- 
tion, without making the necessary exertions for its accomplishment, 
is equally canting and hypocritical. 

We have endeavoured to shew that the final extinction of British 
colonial slavery may be greatly accelerated by very simple means, 
but to bring those simple means into effectual operation will be an 
arduous task. The comparative smallness of the numbers at present 
engaged in it must be supplied by individual energy and determined 
perseverance. 

In one decisive, consistent, immediate abolitionist there may be 
the concentrated force of thousands of timid, passive, gradual abo- 
litionists. In the evident right, the manifest justice of immediate 
emancipation, there is every thing to inspire hope and confidence, 
to give heart and soul to the enterprise. The day, we trust, is not 



ys LETTER VL 

far distant when the great leaders of the anti-slavery society will 
transfer all the weight of their talents and influence from the weak 
and hopeless cause of gradual to that of immediate emancipation. 
In the mean time, let its present advocates put forth all their strength, 
make the best of their resources, and take every rational means of 
augmenting their numbers. Above all, let them constantly recur 
to those divine principles, those solemn christian obligations which 
can alone sustain those disinterested, energetic and persevering ex- 
ertions which the cause so urgently demands. 

Let it never be forgotten, that the crimes and miseries inseparable 
from slavery are in no degree diminished because they cease to ex- 
cite the shuddering horror produced by their first recital. In the 
cause of the poor Negro, feeling may fluctuate, natural sympathy 
may decline, but exei'tion need not ; that may be uniformly sus- 
tained by the unvarying principle of christian duty. The Friends 
of immediate emancipation know and are sure that the object for 
which they contend is a righteous one, they may therefore contend 
for it confidently. They have an invisible but unerring leader, 
whose word of command, — " Whatsoever ye would that men should 
do unto you, do ye even so unto them,*" is their sufficient warrant, 
and they fear no consequences ; — they have no painful drawbacks 
to anticipate from the triumphs of victory ; — for theirs will not only 
be a bloodless triumph, but will ultimately entail blessings upon 
the vanquished as well as the victors. 

The profession of Christianity, having, for a long course of years, 
been made at a cheap rate, without any of those heroic and painful 
sacrifices by which in former ages it was inevitably attended, its 
professors have multiplied till Christianity seems to be the hroad 
instead of the narrow way ; but the arduous work now in hand will 
divide this promiscuous crowd, and separate the doers from the mere 
hearers of the word. We trust that the former will prove that 
there is still nerve and sinew enough in christian arms to pull down 
the strong holds of slavery, — to shake the pillars of this Dagon- 
temple — and to raze it to its foundation. 

But it should ever be remembered that as this is a contest of right 
against might, of humanity and justice against sordid interest and 
lawless power ; as it is a christian, not a political struggle — it must 
therefore be maintained by christian exertions; that as the crime of 
slavery owes its origin and support to unrestrained selfishness (the 
most relentless and cruel of all human propensities) it can only be 
expelled by the opposite virtue of disinterested christian charity. 

It has subsisted hitherto upon the connivance and support of the 
British public, and will (humanly speaking) continue to subsist until 
that connivance and support are withdrawn, and no longer. No 
bounties, or protecting duties, or military force can uphold this 
execrable tyranny when the people refuse its produce. And though 
its immediate extinction can alone be effected by an act of the Legis- 



LETTER VI. 7& 

lature, such an Act could not be withheld, were the people loud 
and unanimous in calling for it. Hitherto, there has been no such 
call ; even for its gradual extinction, the voice of the people has 
hitherto been very partially and feebly raised. It is a remarkable 
and reproachful fact, that the ample disclosures of the horrid nature 
of West Indian slavery have not, hitherto, produced one third of 
the number of petitions against it which appeared against Lord 
Sidmouth's bill for fettering the Dissenters. This disgraceful apathy, 
the immediate abolitionists must labour to dispel ; they must strive 
to arouse and to keep alive the public interest in the speedy extinc- 
tion of slavery; to incite without delay, such general, reiterated 
and strong petitions upon the subject to both Houses of Parliament 
as shall convince Government that the petitioners are in good earn- 
est ; they must employ every means in their power to discourage 
the consumption of slave produce, sugar, more especially ; they 
must caution the public against the various attempts to practice upon 
their credulity by the imposition of sugar cultivated under the worst 
system of slavery for that of free labour.® 

A very able and indefatigable advocate for the extinction of sla- 
very, in a printed Address to the Society of Friends (alluding to 
the important benefits which the Anti-slavery cause would derive 
from the abolition of the restrictive duties on the productions of free 
labour) says, ^' An entire abstinence from the use of slave-grown 
produce would he equally, or even more effectuaV* If so great be 
the importance of such abstinence, it is surely an urgent duty earn- 
estly to recommend and promote it. And in order effectually to 
guard against imposition and to prove that the Abolitionists are at 
length in good earnest, — strongly principled against all lukewarm, 
pusillanimous, half measures ; we would suggest the expediency of 
endeavouring, without delay, to prevail on the Grocers in their re- 
spective neighbourhoods to pledge themselves to abandon the sale of 
slave-cultivated sugar (such pledge, if general, would involve no 
pecuniary sacrifice) — and in every town where no such pledge could 
be obtained of them, to secure, as speedily as possible, some other 
agent who shall engage to supply the pubhc with no sugar hut what 
is the genuine produce of free labour. 

The zealous consistent advocates of a speedy emancipation will 
^dopt every rational expedient for accelerating its accomplishment. 
Their abhorrence of slavery will be strongly marked. They will 
especially discourage, by every means in their power, the consump- 
tion of that luxury by which the inhuman system is mainly upheld. 
They will endeavour to fix a stigma upon its merchandize ; to with- 
draw, as much as possible, the public countenance and support from 
those shops where it is exhibited for sale and give every encourage- 
ment to those from which it is conscientiously excluded. 

«That of the Maukitius is of this description, and is very generally imposed 
upon the unwary public as free grown East-India sugar. 



80 LETTER VI. 

Measures so decisive would probably draw upon their supporters 
no stinted share of censure and opposition, which, in such a cause, 
will be cheerfully encountered. Charity, true christian charity, is 
not a mere passive sentiment of kindness and general good- will ; it 
is an active, courageous, self-denying principle, and its exertions 
will be proportioned to the importance and urgency of the claims 
which are made upon it. It will be difficult to sustain that steady 
and earnest interest required for the support of these various con- 
tinued exertions in a cause where no personal interest is at stake. It 
will be difficult, we admit, but not impossible. It will require ef- 
fort, strenuous effort, to make christian principle supply the place 
of self-interest and evanescent feeling. But ip the consideration of 
our strict responsibility, in the spirit-stirring motives of the Gospel, 
in the recollection that we are " compassed about with a great cloud 
of witnesses," that the eyes of Angels, and of God Himself, are 
upon us, — there is enough to stimulate our languishing zeal, to in- 
cite us to do violence to that natural indolence and selfishness, with- 
out which it is utterly impossible to be his disciples who requires 
his followers to take their daily cross. And let it ever be remem- 
bered, that the most arduous toils of christian duty are not unat- 
tended, even in the actual performance, with a sweet recompense of 
reward. The faithful labourer in his Lord's vineyard receives " a 
hundredfold^ now, in the present timey In the hardest conflicts in 
a righteous cause there is more satisfaction than in inglorious rest. 
And it is animating to think that the success of the great contest 
between the supporters and opposers of slavery depends not on the 
physical or political strength of the combatants, but that its deci- 
sion rests with the " God of battle,"' — who enables one in a righte- 
ous cause, " to chase a thousand."" 

Had it been the Divine will, (as some who bear the name of 
christian ministers have impiously asserted^) that the slavery of the 
unhappy African race should be perpetuated, would such a general 
sympathy have been awakened for their sufferings .? would such an 
ardent zeal have been kindled for their emancipation ? Would the 
wisest and best men in the nation have been constrained to devote 
themselves, as they have done, to the Anti-slavery cause ? — No, cer- 
tainly. The great Lord of the household does not call his servants 
to work, and direct their operations, where their labour shall prove 
fruitless. If it be not crowned with immediate success, it is to ex- 
ercise their patience, to stimulate, not to relax their exertions, assu- 
red, as they ought to be, that their labours shall not, ultimately, be 
in vain. Why was the command to love one another so often reit- 
erated by Christ to his Disciples ? Not that the principle should 
lie dormant and inactive, that it should exist only as a sentiment or 

f See " The House of Bondage," by B. Bailj, A. M. 



LETTER VI. gj 

a feeling, but to urge them to labour, arduous persevering labour 
for each other*'s welfare. 

The speedy Hberation of eight hundred thousand captives from 
the strong grasp of West Indian slavery is a difficult but not im- 
practicable work ; the resistance though great is not insurmount- 
able ; it may be permitted to try the sincerity, zeal and constancy of 
the abolitionists. In the mean time, whilst earnestly endeavourino- 
to do their own part, they may cheerfully commit these unresisting 
victims of the most inhuman oppression to the parental care of Him 
whose " tender mercies are over all his works ; — who " heareth the 
sighing of the prisoner ;""— who feedeth the young ravens that cry 
unto him ;" and without whom, " not a sparrow falleth to the 
ground :'' — who m?i, and doubtless does afford, by means not sub- 
ject to human inspection or comprehension, mitigation and support 
under oppression and suffering when all human resources fail. 

This great deliverance could, we know, be wrought in a moment 
by a single volition of the Sovereign will : but that Sovereign will 
has ordained that the great purposes of his moral Government shall 
be accomplished by moral agents. In the moral as in the natural 
world a regular succession of cause and effect are established. For 
the manifestation of Divine omnipotence, to prove that nothing can 
resist His will. He sometimes breaks that connexion, interrupts the 
general order of His providence, works alone, accompHshes his de- 
signs by miraculous intervention. But these are rare deviations 
from the established course of things, are not to be expected do 
not, in the least, exonerate us from labour, from the dilio-ent use of 
the appointed means ; though it be God alone that givetli increase 
— yet Paul must plant and Apollos water. 

The friends, even of gradual emancipation, are accused of in- 
temperate zeal, of precipitant haste; but the most zealous and 
urgent may, with more justice, upon christian principles, be accused 
of languor and tardiness. A variety of worldly maxims and arbi- 
trary assumptions are suffered to pass current even with them, which 
chili the warm glow of christian benevolence and enfeeble its exer- 
tions. " Long established abuses do not admit of sudden remedies;'' 

— " Great reformations must be accompHshed by slow deo-rees ;'' 

" Time must be allowed for the change of public opinion ;" &c. &c. 
These maxims are allowed to have a prospective as well as retrospec- 
tive application : thus, time and opportunity imperceptibly steal 
away, and — " All purpose, is poor dilatory man." 

The maxims of the Gospel breathe a different language. *' Work 
whilst it is day, for the night cometh in which no man can work." 
— " Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might." 
So far from being justly charged with intemperate zeal and precipi- 
tant haste, the conduct of many professed friends of Negro emanci- 
pation more resembles that of persons who liave been dreaminir of 
such a state of existence as that of West Indian slaverv ; who shudder- 



M 



g2 LETTER VI. 

ed with horror at the frightful representation, but they awoke, " and 
behold it was a dream/' Really to believe and to know, that our fel~ 
low creatures are actually suffering under the iron yoke of so inhu- 
man a bondage — and to rest satisfied with cold prudential plans for 
the mitigation of their sufferings, for their gradual emancipation ; 
calculating that their enfranchisement will ultimately be wrought 
out by the slow operation of natural causes, by the more enlightened 
speculations of the self-same principle of selfish, sordid interest 
which first tore them from their home and country, and has, ever 
since, held them in bondage ! — exclaiming, that it is premature to 
call upon their neighbours to refuse the luxury produced by the 
over-strained sinews, the groans and the blood of the poor Negro, 
until they can obtain an adequate supply of the same luxury on 
cheaper terms by free labour ! — is not to act the christian's pai't ; — 
is not to obey the injunctions of their Divine Lawgiver. No, it is 
to trifle with the sublime precepts of his religion, as well as with the 
wretched objects of their pretended commiseration. 

We cannot but regard with great jealousy and distrust all expe- 
dients for the extinction of slavery, which are suffered in any degree, 
to supersede the prompt exertions of christian duty ; to direct the 
public attention to remote causes for the accomplishment of a change 
which ought immediately to be effected. We must solemnly protest 
against all unnecessary delay ; against all farther procrastinating, 
propositions which would defer a present duty to a future opportu- 
nity ; which would overlook the obvious and certain means of its 
accomplishment, in quest of remote and uncertain ones. The deep 
crime and broad stigma of British slavery, (humanly speaking) 
might long since have been eradicated but for this pleading for time, 
for prudence and caution ; — this deprecation of precipitancy ; — the 
exclusion of passion and feeling from the anti-slavery councils and 
the admission of cold calculating policy in their stead. On the 
atrocious injustice and cruelty of slavery, passion and feeling have 
a right to be heard ; on such a business, they properly belong to 
the executive department, and are essentially necessary to carry the 
requisitions of humanity, religion and justice into prompt execution. 
On such a subject, a christian, how meekly soever duty requires him 
to bear his own personal injuries, may justify the utmost fervour 
of zeal ; he may " do well to be angry''' — that the natural, civil, and 
religious rights of the poor Negro are so long, so cruelly, so re- 
proachfully withheld from him after having been so fully recognized. 

We would in no degree discourage such establishments as that 
of the " Tropical free labour company," — far otherwise ; — they 
seem admirably adapted, (in subserviency to the operation of higher 
principles) to promote the grand design of their enlightened and 
philanthropic projectors, — that of the extinction of slavery through- 
out the world. We are only anxious that the friends of Negro 
emancipation should not build too confidently on their result ; that 



LETTER VI. 83 

the sanguine expectation of their final success should induce no re- 
laxation in the exertion of other means more directly appropriate 
and of quicker operation. We can discern no shadow of reason 
why the emancipation of our own slaves should be suffered to hang 
at all in suspense on the success of any such experiments. On the 
principles of eternal justice they have a present RiaHT to emanci^ 
pation ; — by the express commands of our Supreme Lawgiver we 
are bound to impart it. With that right, and those commands, 
we have trifled too long ; emancipation has already been too long 
withheld ; by every principle of religion, humanity and justice, we 
are bound to withhold it no longer ; we are bound to enforce it by 
the prompt and earnest exertions of christian charity, without wait- 
ing till it is wrought out in the common course of events by the 
gradual operation of natural causes or commercial speculations. 

In the course of an animated speech delivered by Lord Calthorpe, 
at the last Anniversary Meeting of the Anti-slavery Society, he ob- 
served, that, " Whoever reflected for a moment upon the vast re- 
sults which public opinion can produce, could not doubt that if the 
People of England did but will it to be so, slavery would cease. 
Whoever reflected upon the vast influence which the middle classes 
can exercise in this country, could not hesitate in believing that if 
they were once to say — ' This must not be,"* there would, at once, 
be AN END TO slavery. For, supported as the principle of eman- 
cipation is, in and out of Parliament, slavery could not last a 

YEAR IF the middle CLASSES ONCE EXPRESSED A DECIDED OPIN- 
ION AGAINST IT." 

This DECIDED OPINION, by a general rejection of the productions 
of slavery, would be expressed in a decided manner ; in a man- 
ner so decided, that were it simultaneously as well as generally ex- 
pressed, in conjunctions with petitions and strong remonstrances to 
the Legislature, there would be an end at once to British slavery. 

Its complete extinction, through these simple means, embraces so 
many and great advantages, obviates so many and insuperable diffi- 
culties which obstruct the design oi gradual emancipation, that the 
mind is overwhelmed by the amazing disparity between the insignifi- 
cance of the means and the vastimportance of the various benefits com- 
bined in the end. In the first place, it will be a bloodless triumph 
over the most barbarous and sanguinary of all despotisms. It will ex- 
pel the deepest national crime and disgrace, exalt the national honour 
and glory without any sacrifice of life or treasure. It will prove that 
no force can resist the force of public principle when vigorously ex- 
erted ; — that neither fleets nor armies, nor protecting duties, can up- 
hold oppression, when the people have virtue enough to resist it. It 
will expose the weakness as well as wickedness of cruelty, and prove 
that humanity and justice are stronger safeguards than arbitrary 
and licentious power. It will administer to the slave-holders, not 
retributive but corrective ]\x^i\QQ^ and to compel them reform them- 
selves. 



84 



THOUGHTS 
ON COMPENSATIOX. 



There is among the higher and middle ranks of society so prevail- 
ing a disposition to admit the justice of the claims of the Planters to 
compensation, in the event of the emancipation of their slaves — and 
principles of so much importance are involved in the admission, that 
the subject seems entitled to distinct consideration. 

Nothing ever exhibited more conspicuously ths force of prejudice 
and custom, the power of wealth and station to blind the understand- 
ing and pervert the judgment, than the general admission of these . 
claims among those who have no interest whatever in the question ; 
among the enlightened, the disinterested, the conscientious portion 
of the community. 

" Not that the Planters should be required to manumit their 
slaves, especially on a sudden, without compensation. It would be 
robbery, under the garb of mercy, to compel one class of individuals 
to atone for the injustice of a nation," — says the very liberal and 
intelligent Adam Hodgson, after describing the horrid injustice and 
cruelty of slavery in the darkest colours i ! g 

Many of the Planters, we are told, are " men of education and 
liberal attainments'"* — of humanity, — " anxious as the Abolitionists 
themselves, for the religious instruction of their slaves." What 
then ? Are the moral qualities of actions changed by the circum- 
stances or acquirements, or even by the virtues of the actors ? Do 
injustice and cruelty lose their turpitude when practised or sanction- 
ed by men of " education and liberal attainments?" Is robbery a 
punishable, a capital crime in the poor uneducated vulgar, and is its 
guilt cancelled when perpetrated by gentlemen ? Shall we admit 
the propriety, the necessity, of guarding our money and Jiousehold 
goods from depredation by the severest penalties — by imprison- 
ments, transportations and sanguinary executions, — and shall men 
stealers^ purchasers, or 'keepers of stolen men, — robbers, or with- 
holders of their fellow creatures' liberty (the dearest treasure they 
possess)— be not only exempt from punishment, but entitled to com- 
pensation for the relinquishment of their human prey "^ 

When will British justice become in award and execution what 
she is in representation, hood-winked, even-handed, impartial justice? 

J^ See I/etters from North America, page 200. 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 8S 

When will the enlightened, the benevolent, the christian world 
judge and speak and act without " respect of persons ?" When 
will punishment be equitably proportioned to crime ? When will the 
advantages of rank, fortune and education be regarded (as they 
ought to be) aggravations, instead of extenuations of rapacity and 
injustice ? When will poverty, ignorance and necessity be admitted 
to plead in mitigation, rather than aggravation of punishment ? 

" By emancipation without compensation, one painty will be bene- 
fited at the expense of the other." Certainly it will, (temporarily 
at least.) And how are the violated rights' of justice, in any case, 
to be restored ? How are usurpation and robbery to be effectually 
restrained but by the suffering of the offending party ? Where the 
parties at issue are the robbed and the robber, how can justice be 
done to either, without taking from the one and restoring to the 
other ? By emancipation we shall benefit the slave at the expense 
of the slave-holder, — the injured, at the expense of the injurer. 
Can the designs either of justice or of mercy be otherwise accom- 
plished ? Sin, must be corrected by suffering. The offender be- 
comes penitent by feeling the consequence, the just reward of his 
offence. The slave-holder will neither be softened nor reformed 
whilst he retains his unrighteous possessions. " Can one be par- 
doned yet retain the offence ?''' But compensation for the relin- 
quishment of the most criminal and injurious of all usurpations is a 
virtual cancelment of its guilt— a full admission of the right of the 
usurper. 

The Divine Law required that restitution should be made by the 
vohher fourfold ; — he was not merely obliged to resign his theft, but 
made to smart for it in a way best adapted to restrain and to cure his 
rapacity. Human wisdom will never find a better means of curing 
every species of injustice and oppression. But emancipation falls 
most indulgently short of this wholesome rigour ; it does not 
amount even to simple restitution ; — (alas ! that would require a 
price which the riches of all the planters would be insufficient to re- 
pay : not the wealth of the Indies would suffice to make simple res- 
titution for all the degradation, suffering and anguish involved in 
slavery) — but emancipation leaves the usurper in undisturbed pos- 
session of the unrighteous gain he has hitherto acquired, and only 
interposes a check to farther acquisitions. 

Did the planters' ill-gotten, ill-retained property consist of inert 
matter, of bags of stolen gold, of land or houses, of whole cities or 
provinces fraudulently obtained ; or did it consist of mere animal 
live stock, of eight hundred thousand head of cattle, obtained in the 
first instance by marauding violence : these gentlemen having got- 
ten possession, by inheritance, or otherwise, should keep it, for us, 
in undisturbed repose ; — we would not, in such matters, presume to 
be judges or dividers between them and the rightful claimants. But 
when, instead of inert matter, or mere animal live stock, the frau- 



86 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

duleiit possession consists of human beings^ — of brothers, — of ra- 
tional^ inteUigent, ijnmortal creatures, probationers for eternity ,•— 
when the possession, the detention of this property involves every 
thing that can most degrade, imbitter and afflict one party ; every 
thing that- can most harden and corrupt the other ; when this frau- 
dulent or unjust withholding of a fellow creature^s liberty involves in 
it not the privation merely of all the comforts and blessings of his 
mortal existeR::e, but also of that moral and religious culture re- 
quisite for his, eternal well being ; — against such robbery and usur- 
pation it is the duty of every christian to protest, and to use his ut- 
most exertions most speedily and effectually to arrest. To the vast 
disparity between this species of usurpation and that which merely 
withholds from another his rightful possessions in money, lands, 
houses, &c. no force of language can give adequate expression. All 
other injuries are slight and venial compared with that of making or 
of keeping a fellow creature, a slave. Why then is it to be called 
" robbery under the garb of mercy'''' to compel the slave-holder K?i^/«- 
out compensation to relinquish his slave .? 

This sensitive fellow-feeling with slave-holders of " education and 
liberal attainments ;" this admission of the right of property vested 
in human beings, fellow creatures, as justly entitled to freedom as 
any of their lordly possessors ; is no offspring of christian charity ; 
— she extends her sympathy where it is most needed ; to the injured, 
ratlier than the injurer; the oppressed, rather than the oppressor; 
— but this misdirected liberality, this partial indulgence to wealth 
and station, tears the bandage from the eyes of human justice; 
wrests from her hands the impartial sword and equal balance, and 
makes her a " respecter of persons," 

Education, and liberal attainments, instead of being the guaran- 
tee of benevolence, disinterestedness and generosity, are allowed, in 
these gentlemen, not only to supply the place of these virtues, but 
to excuse and varnish over the opposite vices of sordid selfishness 
And cruel oppression. Education and liberal attainments are suf- 
fered, in them, not only to exempt their possessors from punishment, 
who withhold from their fellow man his birthright, " make his life 
bitter with hard bondage," convert him into a beast of burden — a 
mere tool or implement of labour which has no value in the owners' 
estimation but for the money it will bring ; education and hberal 
-attainments not only exempt their possessors from punishment who 
thus deal with their fellow man, because they have the 'power thus 
to deal with him, because their human victim is too weak and help- 
Jess to resist ; but are also allowed to confer a right to cornpensation 
for the rehnquishment of those forced unremunerated labours to 
which the claimants were never, for a moment, justly entitled ; — 
for the restoration of that liberty which they never for a moment 
had a right to withhold ! ! 

But, " it would be robbery under the garb of mercy to compel 



THOUGHTS ON COMI ENSATION. gr 

one class of individuals to atonej^r the injustice of a nation.''^ That 
slave-holding is a national as well as individual crime, we fully ad- 
mit ; inasmuch as the nation has suffered, connived at, and en- 
couraged it; — but the individual crime is neither cancelled nor 
diminished by national sufferance, connivance and encouragement. 
Those who entertain a contrary opinion are not aware of the dan- 
gerous, the impious consequences involved in it. It renders rio-ht 
and wrong, virtue and vice, dependent, not on any inherent princi- 
ples of moral rectitude, but on the arbitrary, capricious standard of 
human allowance and opinion. It intimates that actions are inno- 
cent or guilty, good or evil, not as they are conformable or opposed 
to the laws of immutable righteousness^ but as they are conformable 
or opposed to the ever-varying laws of human policy ; in short, it 
virtually goes the length of excluding the Great Creator from the 
legislation of His intelHgent creatures; implies that they are ame- 
nable at the bar of human judgment alone, and leads directly to 
practical Atheism. It goes to estabhsh the conclusion that all prac- 
tices are allowable and right which are suffered to pass unpunished 
by human law, uncensured by public opinion. 

The disinterested, benevolent, and conscientious portion of the 
community, by advocating the claims of the Planters to compensa- 
tion, are acting (unconsciously indeed, but most effectually) the part 
of the grand deceiver and betrayer of mankind ; standing between 
the criminal and the convictions of his own conscience, which the 
expected arrest of his headlong course of ruthless oppression would 
tend to awaken, and saying to the alarmed and self convicted crimi- 
nal, just aroused to the sense of the accumulated suffering from the 
frightful mass of moral and physical wretchedness which his cruel 
selfishness and sordid avarice have inflicted on his unoffending help- 
less brother ; stung, it may be to the soul, with remorse and con- 
trition ; terrified with the sight of the flaming sword of Divine 
Justice, which the spiritual blindness induced "by prosperity and 
impunity, till now prevented his beholding ; with the hand writing 
also of heaven appearing against him in characters more appalUng 
than those which blanched the cheek of the voluptuous Belshazzar, 
and caused his knees to " smite one against the other ;" — ^proclaim- 
ing retributive justice, in full measure; recompense, to the eternal 
v/orld, now opening to his view; "justice to the oppressed — and 
judgment to the oppressor.''' 

To hold out COMPENSATION for arresting the gains of the most 
inhuman tyranny, the most barbarous oppression ever exercised in 
any age or nation, is to say, in effect, to the slave-holder as the grand 
deceiver said to our first progenitor, " Thou shalt not surely die," 
— in other words, Thou hast committed no crime in exercising thy 
power to oppress and inflict, instead of protecting thy weak and 
unoffending brother ; thou hast committed no crime — and shalt not 
only incur no punishment, but shalt receive compensation for any 



fig THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

loss tbou inayest sustain from the restoration of thy wretched cap- 
tives to that liberty and those just rights, which, though withheld 
by no law of equity but by that power alone: — yet, thy country 
having siijf'ered thee hitherto to abuse that power, heii's is the guilt, 

AND SHE SHALL PAY THE PENALTY!! 

We assert, therefore, in spite of all " the smooth emollients which 
downy doctors,**' wise politicians, eloquent orators, and sympathising 
friends may administer to allay the pains of conviction and remorse 
in the consciences of slave-holders, that to admit their right to com- 
pensation, is, to them, the greatest cruelty instead of kindness; 
it is to " lay a flattering unction on their souls," to delude them 
with fallacious ideas of their own innocence ; to tempt them to post- 
pone the hour of conviction till repentance may come too late ; — 
till " Truth shall burst in thunder and in flame," and " her keen 
vibrations" only precede the darkness of despair. 

We therefore entreat the disinterested, the benevolent, the con- 
scientious, to give a wiser and more comprehensive scope to their 
sympathy with West Indian Planters and slave-holders. Their 
truest friends will rather promote than repel that salutary humilia- 
tion which is the forerunner of repentance ; that compunction which 
may happily incite to acts of penitence, to earnest desires to make 
all possible atonement for a life of injustice and oppression. They 
will rather assist conscience, in these infatuated men, to do her of- 
fice, to become a faithful witness between themselves and their 
slaves — whose testimony may prove indeed that compensation, 
large compensation, larger far than the wealth of both Indies 
is sufficient to supply — is justly due, but that it belongs not to 
themselves^ but to their oppressed, their deeply, irreparably injured 
slaves. All the compensation however, which they have the 
power to make, their best friends will encourage them to without 
delay, to such as are still within reach of human compensation, who 
have not yet "shaken off this mortal coil" and passed into that 
state " where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are 
at rest." 

Though '^ ambition mock" — and " grandeur scorn with disdain- 
ful smile" — the privileges and enjoyments of which slavery has de- 
prived the poor Negro ; yet let it be remembered that He who " ap- 
points the bounds of our habitation," has ordained that '* man shall 
not live by bread alone ;" that his true enjoyment shall not depend 
on the possession of rank or fortune ; on the adventitious refine- 
ments of artificial society ; but, on conformity to the laws of his 
Creator written on his heart, which produce in the wild Indian and 
untutored savage, whilst undebauched by the treacherous corrupt- 
ing acts of European refinement, fruits of disinterested kindness, 
generosity and magnanimity, which might shame the professors of a 
purer faith. Liberty and independence, therefore, may be as dear— 
as productive of real enjoyment to the poor Negro, as to his lordly 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATIOX. 89 

master ; and the crime of withholding them from the one is as great 
as that of withholding them from the other. Let not the latter, 
therefore, by a misdirected sympathy and perverted liberality, be 
tempted to delude himself with the false imagination, the prepos- 
terous conceit, that he is " more sinned against than sinning ;*" — 
that because, through the extreme partiality of human law he 
escapes human punishment, that therefore he may hold himself guilt- 
less ; for whether he stole, ov purchased, or inherited the property 
vested in human beings ; it always was and always will he a crimi- 
nal possession, because held in violation of the immutable laws of 
humanity and justice, in defiance of the express prohibition of the 
Supreme Legislator; and the crime of holding it, if not heartily 
repented of and sincerely atoned by all possible compensation to the 
injured party — must, if there be a righteous Governor of the Uni- 
verse, meet a "just recompense of reward," — in a future, if not in 
the present world. 

The claims of the Planter to compensation have been justly de- 
nominated audacious claims, because they rest on no ground of 
right or reason, of justice or common sense ; because they rest on 
no ground but that of bold assumption. The admission of these 
claims by the disinterested, the benevolent and conscientious, is a 
remarkable proof how far the baneful influence of slavery has ex- 
tended beyond the slave and his master. It has blinded the under- 
standing, and perverted the judgment of the most enlightened por- 
tion of the community ; otherwise, whilst retributive justice is ad- 
ministered with so unsparing a hand to comparatively petty offend- 
ers, who commit depredations on the mere appendages and appur- 
tenances of the man, to the amount of a few shilhngs ; the stealer of 
the MAN HIMSELF, or the holder of him when stolen, in cruel 
and ignominious bondage, could not be held guiltless ; could not, 
before required to relinquish a species of robbery in comparison of 
the turpitude of which all other robberies are innocent, be suffered 
to claim compensation; — the people of England, the enlightened, 
philanthropic, christian people of England, the professed advocates 
of the poor Negro, could not listen to a claim so audacious ; could 
not admit it, incorporate it into their petitions for emancipation,'^ 
and by so doing, virtually admit the justice of man stealing, or of 
withholding from him his best earthly possession, and subjecting 
him to the utmost extreme of degradation and wretchedness. 

Admit the justice of compensation in this quarter, and you dash 
to the ground, and trample underfoot those sacred principles of eter- 
nal justice for which the abolitionists have been hitherto contend- 
ing. Admit the slave-holders'' claims to compensation and you ad- 

*» We have been informed that the petitions preparing in Birmingham and other 
places, for the approaching Session of Parliament, admit the Planters' cUiims to 
compensation. 



90 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

mit the justice of slavery; you not only compromise, but sacrifice 
the great fundamental laws of righteousness ; you surrender right 
and reason to bold and insolent pretension, and open a wide door to 
all sorts of weak concessions and criminal compliances. 
^ Conmion robbers and highwaymen, every description of public 
depredators, may with equal reason and justice claim and receive 
compensation before they renounce their respective professions — 
with more reason and justice; — since poverty and want may have 
plunged them into crime, and without it they may be utterly desti- 
tute of the means of subsistence. They, like the slave-holder, have, 
many of them, been initiated by education and circumstances into 
habits of thinking and acting incompatibly (but not so incompatibly 
as he has) with the principles of moral rectitude ; their property 
also (such as it is) has, like his, been embarked in nefarious specula- 
tions, on the stability and success of which their subsistence may 
wholly depend. But are these considerations for a moment admit- 
ted as excuses, as pleas in bar of judgment, in arrest of punishment, 
when the peculators are detected ? — Are they allowed to entitle the 
delinquents to compensation before they shall be required to aban- 
don their career of depredation ? " But the occupation of this class 
of offenders has been interdicted and proscribed by the laws of the 
land, and the embarkation of capital in slavery has never been so 
interdicted or proscribed. "*' True, it has not. The laws of the land 
have sanctioned and encouraged it, consequently they cannot, and 
they ought not to punish it. But the speculation is not; on that ac- 
count, at all the less criminal in a moral point of view ; it is not, on 
that account, at all less opposed to the laws of rehgion, of humanity, 
of justice. It is for the paramount obligation of these laws — the 
immutable laws of our Creator and Divine Legislator, that we are 
contending. Against any admissions or concessions which tend to 
weaken or supersede their authority, and to give to human legisla- 
tion the precedency in the public estimation the strongest protest 
ought to be entered. 

But we protest against compensation to the slave-holder on civil 
and political, as well as moral and religious grounds, for it has been 
proved to demonstration that ultimately he need be no loser, but, 
on the contrary, a great gainer by cultivating his grounds with free- 
men instead of slaves, and stimulating their labour by the just recom- 
pense of wages instead of the impulse of the cart-whip. The eman- 
cipation of his slaves will in no other way ruin the planter than as 
he obstinately rushes upon his own ruin by madly refusing to con- 
form to a more wise and humane policy. 

These free observations are dictated by no hostile feeling towards 
the slave-holder or his apologists ; but there are occasions which 
require that plain truth should be uttered in plain and in strong 
language — and this is one. The softening, qualifying language of 
conciliation and concession has been tried long enough — a great 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. ?1 

deal too long. How has it operated ? How is it still operating on 
the parties concerned ? It has neither softened nor conciliated, on 
the contrary, it has irritated and provoked scorn, contempt, insult, 
and defiance. The violent prejudices and ferocious passions which 
the language of conciliation and concession was intended to subdue, 
have, by that means been confirmed and exasperated ; prejudice has 
become more malignant, passion more furious ; like flames which 
blaze out higher and hotter on which oil is thrown instead of water. 

See how the slave-holding spirit was affected on the receipt of the 
ve?'?/ conciUator// mid conceding- recommeiidations and orders in 
council transmitted to the colonists by Earl Bathurst. See how it 
exhibited itself in Jamaica, in Demerara, in Barbadocs. In the 
first, how it bearded, set at nought, and put to defiance, not the Go- 
vernment of England and the King's Ministers alone, but the Mon- 
arch himself.^ In Demerara, see in what torrents of Negro blood 
it wreaked its dastardly vengeance ; how it glutted itself with mas- 
sacres, executions and fiend-like lacerations, at the bare idea of 
v/hich humanity sickens. With what malignant, relentless hate it 
persecuted unto death the mild minister of the religion of peace and 
love. In Barbadoes, see how its fury was sublimated to madness, 
" breathing out threatening and slaughter,'*'' trampling on all au- 
tliority, human and divine — boasting, exulting in havoc and de- 
struction ; blaspheming the sacred name by appeahng for Divine 
confirmation of their hellish resolution to expel Christianity, by 
hunting down its faithful Ministers like beasts of prey; to perse- 
cute, '* to exterminate by fire and sword Methodism and all Meth- 
odists.'*' ^ See, the use which has been made throughout the British 
slave-colonies of these very conciliatory and conceding recommend^ 
ations and orders in council by the newly enacted Draconian slave- 
codes, (as in utter contempt and bold defiance of British authority) 
which exhibit " such perversions of the forms of law to purposes of 
cruelty and oppression, as can only find their parallel in the exe- 
crated proceedings of Judge Jefferies, or in the practical jurispru- 
dence of Constantinople, Morocco, or Algiers.'"*^ 

The conduct of the colonists since the receipt of the mehorating 
recommendations and orders in council is a fine comment on the 
wisdom of temporizing, half measures — of advising hardened crim- 
inals to reform themselves. The ungovernable and ferocious pas- 
sions excited by their odious vocation of slave-holding are only exas- 
perated by gentle advice and mild remonstrance ; they can be re- 
strained and subdued by the strong arm of lav/ alone- — and in their 

' See the Tloyal Jamaica Gazette, Nov. 1 — 8, 1823. 

^ See " An Authentic Report of the Debate on Mr. Buxton's Motion relative to 
the destruction of the Methodist Chapel in Barbadoes." 

' See " The Slave Colonies of Great Britain, or a picture of Negro slavery, 
drawn by the Colonists themselves," containing most important documents, re- 
cently transmitted from the West Indies. 



92 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

case it would be the greatest kindness to exert it. Unbridled power 
has intoxicated, driven them to madness. They are maniacs of the 
most dangerous and desperate description. Their own interest, their 
own safety, requires that their phrenzy should be restrained, should 
be subdued by a lower'mg discipline which nothing but the general 
rejection of their merchandize or the force of law can administer. 

The language and conduct of these colonial bravos have dispelled 
the delusion long and dearly cherished by certain speculative phi- 
lanthropists, that crimes of every description are best corrected by 
gentle means ; the crimes produced by slave-holding, are at all 
events proved to be exceptions. These crimes have, it is abundantly 
evident, been dreadfully aggravated and multiplied, by gentle con- 
ciliatory attempts at correction ; — iiestratnt and coeucion are 
NOW imperiously called for. The slave-holding spirit is not to 
be softened or moderated by parley and remonstrance ; it will not be 
reasoned into humanity and gentleness ; it will not be persuaded to 
enact laws to curb its own fury, or if it be, it is only for the pur- 
poses of deception and imposture, to avert the interposition of the 
British Parliament. " Trust not (said the Right Honourable 
Secretary, twenty-six years ago) the masters of' slaves in what con- 
ceims legislation for slavery. However specious their laxvs may ap- 
pear^ depend upon it they must he ineffectual in their operation. It 
is in the nature of things that they should be so. Let then the 
British House of Commons do their part themselves. Let them 
not delegate the trust of doing it to those who cannot execute it 
fairly. Let the evil he remedied by an assembly o/'free men, — by 
the Government of a free people, and not by the masters of 
slaves. There is something in the nature of absolute authority^ in 
the relation between master and slave, which maizes despotism in all 
cases, and under all circumstances an incompetent and unsure 
executor even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of its 
power. ''"'^ 

Has the recent history of colonial slavery deducted aught from 
the soundness and force of these maxims, that the same enlightened 
statesman who uttered them, now issues recommendations to the col- 
onial legislatures to reform their own system ? " If, (says the very 
powerful refuter of West Indian pretensions") it is fit that West 
Indian slavery should remain unmitigated, let the hapless subjects 
of it perish in their chains, let the House of Commons at once 
rescind its resolutions, and leave the poor victims to their fate. But 
if any thing, however small, is to be done for their relief, I trust 
tiiat Parliament will cease impotently and mischievously to 
RECOMMEND, and begin at length to ordain."" 

We must go one step beyond this enhghtened and decisive phi- 

'" See " The Slave Colonies," &c, p. 130, l?A. 
'■ .James Stephen. Esq. 



THOUGHTS OK COMPENSATION. 9S 

lantliropist, and say, — Let the words, melioration, gradual 
EMANCIPATION, and COMPENSATION be lienceforth blotted out of 
the anti-slavery vocabulary ; let the friends of negro emancipation 
take advantage of the tenacious, unyielding spirit ; the bold atti- 
tude of menace and defiance displayed by the colonists — and seeing 
that concession is useless, that conciliation is hopeless, let them make 
a virtue of necessity, discard all idea of compromise — think no more 
of temporizing, but collecting all their might ; standing in the firm 
attitude of hoodwinked, impartial, even-handed justice, hold the 
balance steadily poised in which the rights of the slave and those of 
his master are suspended. Hitherto, they have gained nothing for 
their poor clients because they have asked too little. The slave- 
holder saw the weakness, may we without offence say, the pusillan- 
imity, the half-faced character of gradual emancipation, and he 
naurally suspected there was not much sincerity or earnestness in 
the requisition ; he therefore determined not only to resist it — but 
to traduce, vilify and insult its supporters; describing them as 
" interested and designing hypocrites ,•"" a vindictive crew ; — indulg- 
ing the abominable desire to cast headlong into the gulf of de- 
st7'uction, or endless misery^ all the zvhite inhabitants of the West 
Indies:'"' 

Let the friends of the poor Negro see that nothing henceforth 
be rescinded from his just claims ; that no concessions be made, from 
this time forward, to sordid interest; none to artful policy— none 
to the crafty pretensions or audacious demands of their oppressors. 
Let them be satisfied with nothing short of his complete emanci- 
pation. Had the vengeance of the slave-holder fallen in more 
stinted measure upon the slave, he might still have been left to the 
protection of his tender mercies. Had the slave-holder manifested 
any disposition to soften the yoke, or to lighten the heavy burdens 
of slavery ; to dispense with its galling chains and ignominious 
scourge ; had he been disposed to regard and to treat his unhappy 
captives as human beings instead of brute animals; there had then 
been some sort of excuse for leaving them in his power. But since 
he imperiously declines to concede to them any of the rights of hu- 
manity ; since he refuses to recognize any marriage tie between 
them, but such " as finds its only parallel among the beasts of the 
field ;" — since he still boldly avows that " slaves are chattels as much 
as any other moveable property, over whom the master has the en- 
tire control ;" since he still contends for " the principle in all its 
naked wickedness, by which he holds iny^^ simple absolute^ the 
bodies and souls of his fellow-creatures :" since, in Trinidad, he still 
insultingly avows — " We did, and do declare, the whip to be essen- 
tial to West Indian discipline f — ay, as essential, my Lord CaU 
thorpe, as the Jreedom of the press, and the trial by jury, to the 

° See '♦ The Second Report of* the Anti-slavery Society." 



54 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

liberty of the subject in England, and to be justified on equally le- 
gitimate grounds. The cornfort, welfare, and happiness of our 
labouring classes cannot subsist without it. The fact may have been 
denied by others, but never by us. We have never condescended to 
equivocate or disguise in this Colony, It may be denied by the West 
Indian Committee, but it has never been denied by us.""^ — Since the 
Registry laws in the Mauritius are " a perfect nullity,'"' and the slave 
trade may there be still carried on *^ without Hmit or control :''p — 
since the slave-holder exhibits such a determined character of resist- 
ance to British humanity, and defiance of British authority ; it is 
time for that humanity and that authority to take high and com- 
manding ground, and since the proud citadel of slavery refuses to 
capitulate, it is fit and right, the insulted character and law of 
Britain require, that it should be taken by storm — and razed to 
ITS FOUNDATIONS. It is time to cut short the hopeless task of 
legislating in the different colonies, so as to accommodate the requi- 
sitions of humanity and justice to the various tastes of slave-holders : 
it is time that British law and British justice should extend with 
impartial sway through all the bounds of the British empire. See- 
ing the Great Creator " hath made of one blood all nations to 
dwell on the face of the earth,"' and hath Himself promulgated one 
LAW for men of all complexions; it is time that we, who profess to 
be guided by that law, should no longer presume to make a differ- 
ence. The difference we have presumed to make, or to tolerate, in 
the British colonies, has proved an inexhaustible source of crime 
and misery ; it has hardened and corrupted the white population 
as much as it has degraded and oppressed the black ; it has raised 
the one as much above the just standard, as it has depressed the 
other below it ; it has inflated the slave-owner with insufferable pride 
and arrogance, as much as it has sunk the slave into grovelling and 
abject subjection ; it has incited dark suspicion and coward ven- 
geance in the oppressor, crouching fear and rankling hate in the 
oppressed, which will never be extinguished, will burst out in suc- 
cessive insurrections and massacres, until both parties are subject to 
the control of one authoritative impartial law. 

The Colonists spurn at melioration and gradual emancipation. 
Slavery is a desperate disease — a swollen and mortified limb, no 
emollient applications can stop the rapid progress of the gangrene, 
— the health and safety of the body politic require its speedy am- 
putation. 



Here we had intended to close our animadversions on compen- 
sation, but finding we have not yet done justice to our own views 
of the subject, we venture to add a few concluding observations. 

P See " The Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter," No. 3. 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. ^^ 

" Government,'"' it is said, " would be guilty of great injustice, 
after having not only permitted and sanctioned, but hrlbed the Plant- 
ers by protecting duties, grants and charters to embark their capital 
in colonial speculations ; were they at once to abolish slavery with- 
out compensation to the slave-holder, who, but for such permission, 
sanction and bribes, would have directed his capital into other 
channels.'" 

There is, it must be admitted, some plausibility and apparent 
force in this reasoning — but before we suffer ourselves to be carried 
away with it, let us examine and analize it. We must again refer 
our readers to the work from which in a preceding letter, we have 
made such large extracts*^ for incontrovertible arguments provino- 
*' that the West Indians have no title to their slaves on the ground 
of purchase, nor on the plea of the law of birth, nor on that of any 
natural right, nor on that of reason or justice." 

"It remains only to show that they have no title to them on the 
ground of original grants of permissions of Government^ or of acts 
of Parliament^ or of Charters^ or of English law. History informs 
us, that neither the African slave-trade nor West Indian slavery 
would have been allowed, had it not been for the misrepresentations 
and falsehoods of those who were first concerned in them. The 
Governments of those times were made to believe, first, that the 
poor Africans embarked voluntarily on board the ships which took 
them from their native land ; and secondly, that they were convey- 
ed to the colonies principally for their own benefit, or out of christian 
feeling for them, that they might be converted to Christianity. It 
was in the reign of Elizabeth that the execrable slave-trade first be- 
gan in England. This great princess, on its very commencement, 
seems to have questioned its lawfulness — to have entertained a reli- 
gious scruple concerning it, and to have revolted at the very thought 
of it. She seems to have been aware of the evils to which it might 
lead, and when Captain Hawkins returned from his first voyage 
to Africa and Hispaniola, whither he had carried slaves, she sent 
for him and expressed her concern lest any of the Africans should 
be carried off without their free consent, declaring ' that it would 
be detestable and call down the vengeance of Heaven upon the un- 
dertakers !' Captain Hawkins promised to comply with the injunc- 
tions of Elizabeth but did not keep 'his word ; for when he again 
went to Africa he seized and carried off many of the inhabitants as 
slaves. ' Here (says Hill, the historian) began the horrid practice 
of forcing the African into slavery, an injustice and barbarity, 
which, so sure as there is vengeance in Heaven for the worst of 
crimes, will sometime be the destruction of all who encourage it? 

" We have therefore the fact well authenticated, as it relates to 
original grants and permissions, that they originated in fraud 

«i " Thoughts on the necessity of improving the condition of the slaves," &c. pages 



9(j THOUGHTfS ON COiMPENSATION. 

AND FALSEHOOD. Neither have the masters of slaves in our own 
colonies any title to their slaves on account of any charters which 
they are able to produce, though their charters are the only source 
of their power. There is not an individual who holds any of his 
slaves by a legal title ; for it is expressed in all these charters, whe- 
ther in those given to WiUiam Penn and others, for the continent 
of North America, or in those given for the colonies now under con- 
sideration, that ' the laws and statutes, to be made there, are not to 
he repugnant, but, as near as may be, agreeable to the laws and stat- 
utes of this our kingdom of Great Britain.'' But is it consistent with 
the laws of England that one man should have the power of forcing 
another to work for him without wages ? Is it consistent with the 
laws of England that one man should have the power of flogging, 
chaining, torturing another at his discretion .^" 

" Let the West Indians then talk no more of their charters ; for 
in consequence of having legislated upon principles which are at va- 
riance with those upon which the laws of England are founded, they 
have FORFEITED THEM ALL. The mother country has therefore a 
right to withdraw those charters whenever she pleases, and to sub- 
stitute such others as she may think proper. The right of the West 
Indians to make any laws at all for their own Islands being founded 
upon their charters alone, and the laws respecting the slaves being 
contrary to what those charters prescribe, the slavery itself is illegal, 
and may be done away. If so, all our West Indian slaves are, with- 
out exception, unlawfully held in bondage. There is no master, who 
has any legal title to any one of them. ''^ 

How then could it be " robbery under the garb of mercy,*" to de- 
prive the Planters at once, and without compensation, of property 
to which they have no legal title ? But no license, no encourage- 
ment, no rewards which ever have, or ever can be held out either by 
individuals or governments for the commission of injustice or cruel- 
ty, can, in any degree, absolve the perpetrators from the guilt attach- 
ed to injustice and cruelty. By " the law written on the heart"" — 
by the voice of conscience — by the express word of the Sovereign of 
the Universe they are forbidden. No violations of duty, no crimes, 
great or small, are ever committed without a tempter, an instigator, 
without bribes and proffered rewards ; and virtue consists in nothing 
else but their rejection.'' " How shall I do this great wickedness, 
and sin against God .?" is the uniform voice of conscience, more or 
less audible in every moral agent, under the light of Divine Revela- 
tion, whenever tempted to sin by promised impunity, or instigated 
by proffered reward ; if that " still small voice" be disregarded, and 
the sin committed, true repentance or adequate punishment, must 
inevitably follow : consequently, whatever intervenes to ward off that 
humiliation, compunction, and remorse, which would lead to re- 
pentance, is doing the greatest injury, instead of benefit, to the of- 
fender ; since it is an irreversible decree that " every offence shall re- 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 97 

ceive aju$t recompense of reward :'" — ^^if it be not truly repented of in 
time, it will be punished in eternity. 

These, it may besaid, are general observations which do not di- 
rectly bear on the very complex subject in question. We believe, 
on the contrary, that they bear directly on all subjects however 
complex, in which moral principle is involved ; — ^but we hope to 
prove there is, in fact, no complexity in that before us. Govern- 
ment has sanctioned and instigated the Planters by bounties, pro- 
tecting duties, Sec. to embark their capital in slave speculations. 
They have so embarked it — and they have had their reward ; they 
have profited by these speculations. Government may, therefore, 
with the strictest justice and propriety say to the speculators, 
" Hitherto, we have inconsiderately not only connived at, but, at an 
enormous national expense supported and encouraged your inhuman 
speculations. Our eyes are now opened to its atrocitv. We will 
neither encourage nor connive at it any longer. You youiiselves 
HAVE OPENED ouE EYES. Your owu language and conduct, the 
fruit which yourselves have exhibited of slave speculations, abun- 
dantly convince us, had we no other evidence, of the necessity of 
putting an immediate stop to them. Regard for our own cha- 
racter, for the national honour, for your interest, were humanity and 
justice to your victims to be wholly disregarded, imperiously require 
us to put an immediate stop to your infatuated, blind and infuriated 
career. You demand Compensation. For what ? We purpose 
to despoil you of none of your ill-gotten possessions. You purchas- 
ed or you inherited your slaves ; you have, to the present moment, 
enjoyed the full benefit of their uncompensated labours, their nightly 
as well as daily toil under the lacerating scourge. But to these 
slaves, we now clearly perceive you have no legal claim. By the 
laws of God, by the laws of the British constitution, we can neither 
impart, nor continue, nor allow your right to hold them in bondage. 
Seeing, and at length admitting, this self evident truth, we are com- 
pelled to act accordingly. Our own honour and credit, the impe- 
rious requisitions of humanity, justice and religion, the importunate 
demands of the people, all unite in requiring us to pronounce their 
immediate emancipation. Were we to withhold this decision we 
might rightly be charged with the grossest injustice. But for the 

emancipation of your slaves, you demand of us compensation 

compensation to the amount of sixty-foub, millions ! ! ! From 
whence is this compensation to be drawn, but from the People ? 
The People, out of whose pockets, in bounties, and protecting du- 
ties, and military estabhshments to support your execrable tyranny, 
we have already drawn annual millions to put into yours. Would 
that be doing justice 9 Would the people tamely submit to such 
an impost, to remunerate you for the loss of a property to which 
you never had any just title, either legal or moral, now that their 
eyes are wide open to the shameful abuse you have made of it ? 
Would it be prudent ? Would it be safe to hazard the experiment 



98 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

of such an impost ? We believe it would not. And therefore, 
Gentlemen Planters, we think it would be prudent and wise in you 
to forbear to press any such groundless and preposterous claims. 
We say prudent and wise, if you have any regard to your own 
credit or interest. Depend upon it, the best resolution you can 
adopt on this dangerous subject is to be silent, — to hush up this 
business of compensation as quickly as possible ; for the eyes of the 
people, and our own eyes, being completely opened to this compact 
of injustice, it is utterly vain for you to attempt to close them 
again. A flood of light has fallen, by Heavenly direction, upon 
the whole system of slavery, its horrid wickedness and miserable 
impolicy have been fully developed and can never again be hidden. 
With the mere names and empty profession of humanity, justice, 
and religion, neither the Government nor the people of this great 
nation will any longer be satisfied — they will have the suhstantial 
realities. And therefore, Gentlemen slave-holders, we are seriously 
persuaded that if, under these circumstances, you persist in urging 
your illjudged and most illfounded claims, you will certainly make 
bad worse ; you will not only lose your labour, but provoke the 
public indignation to that degree, that if they cannot compel you 
to make restitution of the criminal gains of oppression and cruelty, 
they will make those gains a curse to you by attaching to them 
universal odium and reproach.*" 

But our apologist contends that " all holders of slave property 
are not wilfully, consequently, not guiltily such. There are many 
who have never seen the estates from which they derive their emo- 
luments, or the slaves by whom they are cultivated. There are 
many widows and orphans who are the unconscious stipendiaries of 
this wicked system, and are entirely dependant on the income they 
derive from it. Are these to be cast provisionless and pennyless on 
the wide world .'^" No, certainly. We demand justice for the slave 
at the expense of no injustice in any other quarter. Only prove 
that the parties in question will become provisionless and pennyless 
by slave emancipation, and the public, as well as the Government 
will be cheerfully disposed to render them ample compensation. 
But the supposed consequence is an improbable and impossible one ; 
we have not only the most irrefragable arguments, but the evidence 
of expe7nment Siwdijact to prove that with judicious management no 
ultimate loss, but on the contrary, an ultimate gain will be the con- 
sequence of the conversion of slaves into free labourers. Emanci- 
pation does not involve the confiscation of the estates from which 
these widows and orphans derive their subsistence. Emancipation 
will not doom those estates to perpetual sterility, — will interpose no 
insuperable obstacle to their profitable cultivation. 

That free labour is on the long run more advantageous to the 
employer than slave labour, is now so generally admitted by intel- 
ligent and unprejudiced persons, as no longer to require reproof. 



THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 99 

*' Mr. Ramsay, who had twenty years experience in the West In- 
dies, observes, ' I am firmly of opinion that a sugar plantation might 
be cultivated to more advantage, and at much less expense, by la- 
bourers who are free men 5^ than by slaves.' Dr. Dickson, who re- 
sided in Barbadoes, as Secretary to the late Hon. Edward Hay, 
Governor of that Island, observes in his work on the Mitigation of 
Slavery, ' You need not be informed, that it has been known for 
many ages by men of reflection, that the labour of slaves, though 
apparently cheaper, is far dearer in general than that oijree men.'* 
Speaking of Mr. Steel's experiment, he remarks, ' He has ascer- 
tained as a fact, what was before known to the learned as a theory, 
and to practical men as a paradox, that the paying of Negroes for 
their labour does actually produce a veri/ great profit to the Plant- 
ers. He saw that the Negroes, like all other human beings, were 
to be stimulated to permanent exerticni only by a sense of their own 
interests, in providing for their own wants and those of their ofF- 
springj He therefore tried rewards instead of punishments, which 
immediately roused the most indolent to exertion. His experiments 
ended in regular wages, which the industry he had excited, enabled 
him to pay. Here was a natural, efficient, and profitable reciprocity 
of interests. His people became contented ; his mind freed from 
that perpetual vexation, and that load of anxiety, which are insepa- 
rable from the vulgar system, and in little better than four years, 
the annual nett clearance of his property was more than tripled.'' 
The same writer remarks, ' I must refer to an excellent pamphlet, 
entitled Observations on Slavery (published in 1788, by Dr. James 
Anderson) which shews that the labour of a West Indian slave 
costs €ibout thrice as much as it Would cost if executed by free men.' 
Mr. Botham, (the conductor of sugar-works at Bencoolen) says, 
* After spending two years in the West Indies, I returned to the 
East in 1776. Having experienced the difference of labourers for 
profit, and labourers from force, I can assert that the savings by 
the former are very considerable. I do suppose our sugar Islands 
might be better worked than they now are by two-thirds, or indeed 
one half of the present force. Let it be considered how much labour 
is lost by overseeing the forced labourer which is saved when he 
works for his own profit. / have stated with the strictest veracity 
the plain matter of fact, that sugar-estates can he worked cheaper 
hy free persons than slaves!"""^ 

But the evidence drawn from these experiments and observations 
is controverted and denied by the West Indians and their abettors. 
And what evidence is not controverted and denied by them which 
tends, in any degree, to the detection and exposure of the impolicy 
and wickedness of their present execrable system .?* In opposition 

^ See a Letter to M. Jean-Baptist Say, on the comparative expense of free and 
slave labour." By Adam Hodgson, p. 10—12, 31, and Appendix, p. 7, S. 
^ See " Keview of the Quarterly Ileview," p. 49—53. 



100 THOUGHTS ON COMPENSATION. 

to all the facts and reasonings brought by their opponents in proof 
of the superior profitableness of free above compulsory labour, they 
assert that tbey ought to be allowed to be the best judges of their 
own interests ; that were the broad fact such as the abolitionists 
have stated, the Planters must be idiots or madmen not to act ac- 
cordingly. But we ask, in the language of the intelligent author 
above quoted, " Does man always act with an enlightened view to 
self interest ? Is he uniformly vigilant to observe, and prompt to 
pursue his real good ? Does prejudice or passion never blind or 
mislead him ? Nor habit render him slow to follow the dictates of 
his better judgment .?" 

We have alluded to the superior profitableness of free, above 
slave labour, not in confirmation of the justice, the expediency and 
necessity of immediate emancipation, (which would be equally just, 
expedient and necessary were the result of these experiments and 
observations the very reverse of what has been stated) we allude to 
the fact for the sole purpose of proving that all claims to compensa- 
tion are groundless and futile on the plea of injury which the 
Planter would sustain from the manumission of his slaves. He will, 
of course thereby lose the power of obtaining the market price in 
ready money, for his human commodity, and may consequently ex- 
perience a temporary inconvenience ; but it will be the fault of his 
own mismanagement, if he be not ultimately a gainer by the con- 
version of his slaves into free labourers. But admitting, for the 
sake of argument, that he would ultimately lose by the transition ; 
is it reasonable or just that the most guilty party in this criminal 
transaction should be remunerated at the expense of the less guilty ? 
the inconsiderate, and for the most part, unconscious public, which 
has for generations been pouring annual millions into the Planter's 
pocket ? 

We are disposed to resist these claims from no uncharitable or 
-vindictive feeling towards the slave-holders; — ^from no anxiety to 
save the public purse, but from a conviction of the very injurious 
precedent which their concessions would establish ; and that the 
work of emancipation would be thereby defaced and tarnished which 
otherwise would be one of the most brilliant acts of national justice 
which the legislature could perform. We would resist all preten- 
sions to compensation in this quarter, from a conviction that every 
iota which is conceded to the loud and importunate demands of the 
slave-holder, is deducted from the silent, yet powerful claims of the 
slave. Which, however freely admitted in theory, will be practi- 
cally withheld in exact proportion as those of the former are allowed. 
To the slave-holder, nothing is due ; — to the slave, every thing 
which the wisdom of the nation can devise and the wealth of the na- 
tion can execute for the instruction, the reformation, the protection, 
the comfort of these patient victims of national as well as individual 
injustice and rapacity. 

FINIS. 



