EXAMINATI ON 

7U^ 3 f 



O F 
The Rev. Mr. H A R R I S*s 

SCRIPTURAL RESEARCHES 

1# ON 

The Licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, 



By the Rev. JAMES RAMSAY, 



LONDON: 

Printed by James Phillips, George- Yard, Lombard. 
Street. 

M.DCC.LXXXVIH. 



^^ 



< ft 



H.7P"RH£® 



■ LlfcjMm-ji 1.L ■■ » 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



4C 



THE follov/ing Examination was drawn up in 
the country, from a cafual perufal of Mr. 
Harris's Scriptural Refearches, with a view of put- 
ting them into the hands of any perfon, who might 
be employed in anfwering that very extraordinary 
work. But on coming up to town, and under- 
ftanding that Mr. Harris's reafoning had produ- 
ced effects on certain people, who had not iludied 
the fcriptures, or attended to that fpirit of free- 
dom, which runs throughout the Old and New 
Teftament, and who hitherto had fuffered them- 
felves to be relu6lantly dragged along by the pre- 
fent prevailing enthufiafm in favour of freedom, 
but now eagerly feized on a pretence for abandon- 
ing the caufe, it has been judged proper to give 
it at once to the publick. Mr. Harris afFedts 
to proceed mathematically in the treatment of his 
fubjeft, and therefore eilablifhes certain data. 1 
had thought it fufficient to contradi6l their parti- 
cular application, in my examination of the fub- 
je6l ; but others thinking it necelfary to take 
more direft notice of them, I have fubjoined the 
following fhort obfervations. 

Dat. 1,2. *^ The fcriptures of the Old and 
New Teftament are of equal authority, and con- 
tain the unerring decifions of tile word of God." 
A 2 Obfervatioii,. 



( 4 ) 

Obfervation. Certainly: but it will not be 
difputed, that there are many things, not indeed 
deferving the name of decilions, but that pals 
without cenfure, and are feemingly allowed there, 
which we know to be forbidden to us, and which 
will not apply to the improved ftate of mankind. 
Lawg muft be adapted, not only to the ftate of 
fociety, but to the prefent ftate of the improve- 
ment of the human mind, which we know has 
been gradually advancing from the earlieft ages. 

Dat. 3, 4, f^ It is criminal to refufe aflent 
to what the fcriptures decide to be intrinfically 
good or bad." 

Obfer. Suppofe this. Yet may we not inquire 
if a thing or pradice be really fo declared, and 
if it concerns our falvation, to forpa a decide4 
opinion on it ? Are we not liable to miftake prac- 
tices, arifing out of circumftances connefted with 
the firft formation of fociety, and therefore not 
pofitively cenfured, for fuch decifjons of intrinfical 
goodnefs ? Thus the eating of fwines flefh was al- 
lov*^ed before the promulgation of the law of 
Mofes; that law ftridly forbad it 5 the Chriftian 
law allows it again as at the beginning : or, the 
Jews were alone reftrained from the ufe of it; 
while they continued under a particular oeconomy, 
and their tranfgreffion of this law was only a crime, 
becaufe it was enjoined them ; not becaufe it was 
in itfelf a thing unlawfpl, as murder, adultery, 
sind the like. 

pat. 5, 6. " Every fcriptural decifion, how- 
ever incomprehenfible, muft be affented to as a 
declaration of the word of God." We muft con- 
lider the circumftances under which that decifion 
}s made; how far it is agreeable to our beneyo- 
|ept religion, and how far it is applicable to ou^ 

conduct, 



( s ) 

condu(5b, before we imitate it. The drunken in-^ 
ceft of Lot is not cenfured. It was the means o£ 
producing two mighty nations ; from which, ac- 
cording to the author's manner of reafoning, he 
ought to conclude it was approved of; yet 1 fup- 
pofe he will not recommend the imitation to any 
perfon in thefe days, 

Dat. 7. " The {lave-trade muft be believed 
to be intrinfically juft and lawful, if the fcriptures 
give a fandlion to it." Suppofe the flave-trade 
to have this fan6tion (which yet is not true) unlefs 
the author can Ihew how it can be carried on with- 
out infringing on our Saviour's golden rule, of do-' 
ing as we would be done by j unlefs he can inilruft 
us how we can go to the coaft of Africa, and by 
every fraudulent, violent, oppreflive method, rob, 
murder, and enllave innocent people without a 
crime j then are we to keep our praftice, if not 
our opinion, fufpended. 

Dat. 8. " No abufe of a lawful purfuit, cart 
make that purfuit criminal." It is lawful for 
a man to provide for his family ; but not to rob 
and murder on the highway under fuch a pretence. 
Whenever a man's induftry is connedled with 
fuch practices, the aflual exertion of it is a crime 
in him, though to provide for his family in an 
honed way would be laudable. That there is an 
unlawful flavery noticed in the fcriptures, is clear, 
from the punifhment that Pharaoh brought on 
himfelf and ^gypt, for enflaving the Jews. The 
author fhould diflinguifh, and mark the difference 
between the flavery that (page 41) is almoll com- 
manded, and that which brings down divine judo-- 
ments on the oppreflbr, and (hew that his patrons 
of Leverpool practife only the firll. 

A 3 Dat, q. 



C 6 ) 

Dat. 9. '^ No private or publick advant- 
age will ever juftify the flave-trade, till it be 
proved elTenti ally ju ft and lawful in its nature.'^ 
Here we are fmcerely agreed ; and according to 
the diftinftioo propofed for datum 8, he has only 
to fet heartily to work, and prove the Leverpool 
flave-trade to be that particular fort of flave-^ 
trade, " v/hich God hath commanded as being 
effentially juft and lawful in its nature." 

Dat. 10. " No argument drawn from abufe, 
can prove the intrinfic deformity of the flave- 
trade, unlefs it be proved effentially unjuft." 
Thefe are words without meaning. We are not 
combating an ideal flavery; but (lavery accom- 
panied with robbery, oppreffion, mifery, murder* 
Wherever we find flavery fo attended, it becomes 
a horrid crime, be it intrinfically never fo juft. 

Dat. II. "If abufes committed in the pro^ 
fecution of alawful purfuitcan be prevented, then 
the advantages arifing from it, ought to have a 
powerful influence againft the abolition." But if 
thefe abufes cannot poffibly be prevented (for are 
we to opprefs and murder according to law ?) then 
the greateft advantages attending any pra6tice 
muft be abandoned, till a method fhall be difco- 
vered, of feparating them from iniquity and blood* 
Ihed. 

Dat. 12. " If the ftave-trade is to be abo- 
lifhed, becaufe of the abufes committed in it, then 
every other branch of trade, in which abufes are 
committed, ought to fhare the fame fate." Mofl: 
certainly in turn, in proportion to the atrociouf- 
nefs of each. Let us once get this ftaring mon- 
fler fubdued, and we will be obliged to the au- 
thor for pointing out any other iniquitous traffick 
that deferves to follow immediately in the train 

of 



( 7 ) 

of the Leverpool flave-trade. The fallaeioufnefs 
of this author's reafoning, is exceedingly well ex- 
pofed, in the Critical Review of April, 1788, to 
which I refer the reader* 

From this view of the author's data, it will ap-* 
pear, that he has totally confounded tinnes and 
circumftances. The law of Mofes was enadled in 
aid of natural religion, till the perfe6t religion of 
Chrift fhould be given to the world. The doc- 
trines of thislaft, enjoin us to confider and treat 
all men as our brethren ; and its efFed was gra- 
dually to take away all burthenfome ceremonies, 
all opprefTive diftindlions. Why are we then 
fenc back to lefs perfedt inftitutions for the rule 
of our praftice ? We are to go on to perfe6lion, 
refine fentiment, and extend benevolence. What 
has raifed Europe above the refb of the world, but 
the abolition of domeftick flavery ? What degrees 
of opulence and profperity might it acquire, if 
the abominable, contra6ted, branch of trade in the 
bodies of our fellow creatures of Africa, were 
changed to a fair, equitable intercourfe ofproduc* 
tions and manufadures ! 

J, R. 



A 4 EXAMI- 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/examinationofrevOOrams 



( 9 ) 

EXAMINATION, &c. 



THIS gentleman profefTes to treat the fub- 
je<5l feriouily, and to fubmit his opinion to 
the decifions of revealed religion. No man has 
a right to difpute his fincerity, as far as his own 
way of thinking is concerned ; but few ferious 
people will perufe his extraordinary pofitions, 
"without having their reverence for their Creator 
Ihocked, and their benevolence to their brother 
affe6ted. The Scriptures, from which he draws 
his conclufions, we believe to teach, that all men 
are equally dear to their Creator, and that we 
owe love and good offices to each other. But if 
his dedu6lions be fairly made, we muil no longer 
entertain this opinion ; for one part of mankind 
is to be kidnapped, evil intreated, opprefled, 
murdered, to indulge the avarice of another; 
and, page 76, Corol. 3d. " He doth not believ^e 
the Scriptures, who is not perfuaded that this 
doftrine is taught there.'' 

But the author ftumbles at the very threfhold. 
Our Saviour (John v. 39.) bids the Jews to fearch 
the fcripturesi ''for in them ye think ye have 
tternal life -, for they are they which tellify of 
me," the Saviour come to free men from the 
bondage of fin, into the glorious privilege of the 
fons of God. But it fcems Ibmething elfe is 
meant. We are to fearch the fcriptures (fee citle 
pagej for a commifTion to Leverpool captains for 

fitcins 



( '9 ) 

fitting out fhips., and loading them with powder, 
fhot, and cutlaiTes, to fee the Africans on to 
alTault, kidnap, and enflave each other ;«to be 
transferred over to them ; to be murdered by bad 
air, thirftj and famine, in the paffage to the Weft- 
Indies ; where the poor remains are to be fet to 
hard labour, without t'ood, without cloathing, 
without reft, fufficient to fupport nature. 

It is true (preface, page 5.) he, with all the 
other advocates for flavery, declares himfeif *' an 
enemy to injuftice and oppreffion." But the 
defign of his book is to fhew, that the ill-treat- 
ment of flaves is not an objed: of divine animad- 
verfion ; for (p. 16.) Sarah was permitted with- 
out cenfure, '* to ufe cruel oppreffive treatment 
to Hagar •," and (p. 26.) Jofeph is approved of 
by God for the cruel manner in which he enflav- 
ed and exchanged the abodes of the Egyptians. 
Which of thefe is to be believed j his general 
alTertion, or his particular application ? Or may 
we conclude, that he referves to himfeif the feel- 
ings of humanity, and fells tyranny and oppref- 
fion to his friends of LeverpooL 

In the fcriptures fervants are frequently men- 
tioned i but, in this differtation, they are tranf- 
formed into " flave trade.'' The places, where 
traffick in flaves is related, are Jofeph's brethren 
(Gen, xxxvii.) felling him to the lihmaelites, 
who fell him to Potiphar ; the Tyrians (Ezek. 
xxvii. 13.) who had a market for the perfons of 
men j and Babylon, the mother of abominations, 
(Rev. xviii. 13,) who expofed to fale, flaves and 
fouls of men. 1 hope none of thefe inftances are 
propofed to the imitation of the " ancient and 
loyal town of Leverpool j'* for a black mark is 
fet on them to prevent them from being followed. 

Now 



( " ) 

Now there is fome difference between dealing m 
flaves as a branch of trade, and buying the fervice 
of a domeltic j even as it is not every man who eats 
meat, that is or could ad the part of a butcher. Inthe 
cafe of the Jews there was fonnething particular* 
They were obliged to admit their flaves to aU 
the national privileges, to circumcifion, the pafT- 
over, and other foiemn feafts, and to inftrucl 
them in the true religion (Gen. xvii. 13. Exod. 
xii. 44. Deut. xvi. u. and xxxi. 12. Jofh. viii, 
2^.) In buying them from the Heathen around 
them, they recovered them from idolatry; they 
gave them a weekly fabbath. In their treatment 
they were commanded to remember, that they 
themfelves had been flaves in Egypt. Vv^heii 
they are threatened for their fins, the ill treat- 
ment of their flaves makes a capital part of the 
charge againft them. But modern mafl:ers think 
that nothing of this fort concerns them. 

The Jews were intended to communicate to 
the world the knowledge of the true reiioion. 
He who brings good out of evil made ule of tht; 
flavery, in pradice, to extend this knowledge to 
perfons, whom it could not at that time have 
otherwife reached. But nothing in the bible 
countenances a trade in flaves. Even the tranf- 
ferring them in ordinary cafes is checked as in 
that of wives and concubines, (Exod. xxi. n.) 
Their ill treatment was guarded againft, by that 
law which gave them freedom if their mailer 
had ftruck out a fingle tooth. 

Indeed, among the Jews, the number of flaves 
mufl: have been fmall. They were numerous in 
a narrow territory, and were in general hufl^and- 
men, and ufed ploughs and other inflruaients of 
agriculture, and wrought in the field with their 

fervants. 



( 12 ) 

fervaiits. Ziba, who appears to have been flew- 
ard to the houfe of Saul, had only twenty fervant^ 
to aflift him and his fons in cultivating the lands 
belonging to the fadnilv. The Jews on their re- 
turn from captivity had only one fervant to lix 
perfons, or one in each family. The remnant of 
the Gibeonites, who ferved the temple, was then 
392. It is not therefore fair to conlider every 
accidental poflcflion of a fervant, either as an in- 
ftance, or as a vindication of the Leverpool 
** flave trade i" of which no ancient nation could 
ever form an idea. We may rather conclude^, 
that though the Jews were permitted to buy 
flaves from the Heathen, they did not traffick in 
them; and forcibly to enflave their brethren was 
death. (See Exod. xxi. 16. Deut xxiv, 7.) 

Of Mr. Harris's data as general propofitions, I 
Ihall fay little more j the application alone is what 
the prefent fubje6l is concerned in. I fliall only 
fuggeft an additional datum, as neceflary to com- 
plete his principles of reafoning. 

Dat. 13. If the flave trade, though '' intrin- 
fically licit," cannot now be carried on, without 
breaking through every human and divine law, 
without cheating, violence, oppreffion, murder, 
then mud it be laid afide, till we Ihall have dif- 
covered a way of carrying it on, agreeably to the 
doctrines of the gofpel, by which we are enjoined 
to confider all men as our brethren, and to deal by 
them as we wiih them to deal by us. 

Page 16. Speaking of Abraham's pofTeffing of 
fervants, he calls it, " a pofitive approbation, a 
fanftion of divine authority in favour of the flave- 
trade.'* What a change is put on the Reader ! 
Abraham poireffed fervants ; therefore the Lever- 
pool flave-trade has a divine fandion. For if this 

be 



( J3 ) 

be not meant, nothing is meant. His book is 
publifhed to vindicate this trades it is dedicated to 
the corporation, who muft fo underftand it. Now 
let a man only read Mr. Newton or Mr. Falcon- 
bridge's, or any other eye-witnefs's account of this 
trade, and what horrid impiety muft of neceffity 
be underftood ! Is there " a divine fandion" for 
all the iniquity accompanying this very diabolical 
bufinefs, the kidnapping, chaining, murdering, 
fufFocating of millions of unhappy fellow crea- 
tures? Are fuch things not barely permitted, buc 
(p. 42.) approved, encouraged, and feemingly 
enjoined? 

Abraham was a rich, powerful, prince. As he 
travelled through various countries, numbers 
muft have been defirous of attaching themfelves 
to his fortune, and have offered themfelves for his 
attendants. His humanity might have induced 
him to purchafe children from unnatural parents, 
or captives from robbers. But all in his family- 
were in a fituarion very different from that of 
Weft Indian flaves. We learn, that on the fup- 
pofition of his dying childlefs, he intended one 
of them for his heir; that he intrufted a fervant 
tochufe a wife for his fon Ifaac ; that he put arms 
in his fervants hands, and led them out to battle. 
There is nothing of Weft Indian flavery in all 
this. 

But a particular ftrefs is laid on the ftory of 
Hagar, and Sarah's ill treatment of her. Page 19. 
<' She obtained no favourable fentence from the 
Divine Tribunal for leaving her miftrefs, nor was 
Sarah cenfured for her feverity." Sarah was not 
prefent when the angel appeared unto Hagar, 
therefore fhe is neither praifed nor condemned. 
But that Hagar believed Ihe had a favourable 

fentence. 



( 14 ) 

fcntenccj and that her condu6l was not condemn- 
ed, when affured that the Lord had feen her af- 
fiiftion, which is the fcripture phrafe for deliver- 
ance ('Gen. xxix. 32. and xxxi. 42. Exod. iii. 7.), 
and that fhe fhoold have a fon, and that her (eed 
Ihonld be multiplied, appears from her acknow- 
ledgment of the vifiOHj and returning to her mif- 
trefs. Nor can we imagine in what more flatter- 
ing manner her afflidion could have been recom- 
penfcd, or how flie could have been afflidted fo 
as to have deferved a recompence, and her mif- 
trefs not to have been in fault. It was neceflary 
for her to return to her miftrefs, that her fon might 
partake of the fign of the covenant, and be in- 
ilrufted in the true religion. 

Hagar's cafe (p. 19.) is compared with an 
African female flave in the Weft Indies. No- 
thing; can be more oppofite. Jofephus fays, 
Pharaoh made Abraham a prefent of money j and 
the fcripturcs fay, that he intreated Abraham well 
for Sarah's fake, adding immediately, he had 
cattle, and men fcrvants, and maid fcrvants, as 
if Pharaoh had prefented them ; among vv'hom 
Hagar might have been one; or, as it appears 
fhe was a worfliipper of the true God, fhe might 
voluntarily have entered into Sarah's fervice... 
Certainly fhe had never been cooped up in a 
Guinea trader, nor fet to plant the fugar-cane; 
nor was llie ordered to return and fubmit herfelf 
for her miftrefs's profit, but for her own and her 
fon's fake •, and when that purpofe was anfwered 
fhe was difm.ilTed, 

There is therefore no foundation for the au- 
thor's dedu£lion, p. 20. that " a divine voice de- 
clares her to be her mafter's indifputable pro- 
perty, and the original bargain to be juft and 

lawful 



( >5 ) 

lawful in its nature; and that the (Leverpool) 
flave-trade, even attended with circumftances 
not conformable to the feelings of humanity, is 
efTentially confident with the rights of juftice, 
and has the pofitive fandion of God for its fup- 
port, however difpleafing thefe circum [lances may 
he to his fatherly providence." Let any man make 
fenfe of this who can. 1 underfiiand only the ex- 
treme boldnefs of the expreffion. Here is a right 
to enQave and an approbationj and alio a cenfure 
of the exercife of this right. Here our natural 
notions of benevolence are fet in oppofition to 
revelation, p. 42. Revelation commands us to 
cnflave our brethren, even againft the luggeftions 
of the feelings of humanity. Surely the writer 
fhould Ihew the high purpofes anfwered by flaveryj 
to gain which it is an adt of piety to violate our 
benevolent feelings. 

We come now to the flory of Jofeph, which, 
p. 23, " afcertains the inherent lawfulnefs of the'* 
(Leverpool) *'' flave-trade." The firft thing that; 
ftrikes us in his account is, his illuilrating his doc- 
trine by Jofeph's political arrangements of the 
kingdom of Egypt, rather than by Jofeph's own 
iloryj which, except in the horrid circumftances 
of the middle paffage, agrees entirely with the 
Leverpool flave-trade. Jofeph is found at a dif- 
tance from prote6lion. His enemies kidnap him 
and fell him to flave-brokers, who carry him intoi 
Egypt, and difpofe of him as an article of com- 
merce to Potiphar. His kidnappers law, and 
like Guinea captains difregarded, the anguilh of 
his foul. It is true, afterwards, when they be- 
lieved themfelves in danger of being enflaved in 
;urn, they upbraid each other with their unfeeling 
cruelty, and charge their diflrefs to its account. 

But 



( i6 ) 

But this was only becaufe Scriptural Refearches 
had not then been publifhed : for they, p, 20, 
would have proved, that " though the aftion was 
not altogether conformable to the feelings of 
humanity, and was even difpleafing to his Father- 
ly Providence ; and though doubtlefs God would, 
fee, and of confequence recompenfe, Jofeph for 
his afHidrion as he had Hagar^ yet this ftroke in 
the flave-trade is effentially confiflent with the 
unalienable rights of juftice^ has the pofitive 
fandion of God in its fupport, nay, his appro- 
bation, p. 165 and p. 42, even his command." 

But let us examine Jofeph's management of 
the Egyptians, not as this author, but as the 
fcriptures reprefcnt it. In the years of plenty 
Jofeph ftored the extraordinary produce of each 
diftrid in the neighbouring cities. One tenth 
part belonged of right to the king; the reft he pur^ 
chafed at a low price with the king's treafures. In 
the years of famine he fold the corn out to the inha- 
bitants of the diftricts neareft to his refpedive ftore- 
houfes at an advanced price, and accumulated the 
money, cattle, and moveables of the whole king- 
dom, and at laft made a bargain for their lands and 
perfons. It is not to be fuppofed that any property, 
except money, was taken out of the original pof- 
fefTors hands j for this would have anfwered no 
purpofe, but to diftrefs the people and cmbarrafs 
government. Indeed, where could the whole cattle 
and moveables of the kingdom have been ftored? 
When the feven years of famine were ended, Pha- 
raoh was the fole proprietor. Jofeph then gives 
the inhabitants a charter, reftores them their 
lands and cattle, on condition of paying to Pha- 
raoh a fecond tenth of the produce of the land, 
which made their contributions to the revepu^ 

a fifth 



( i; ) ' 

a fifth part of their crops. It appears no other' 
badge or burden of flavery was impofed, except 
this rent, which was a tenth part more than they 
had formerly paid. 

The common rent of the bare land in England 
is eftimated at one-third of the produce, and the 
farmer mull fupply himlelf with flock, except , 
perhaps buildings, and alfo contribute largely in 
a variety of ways to the publick revenues : but by 
Jofeph's regulation the Egyptian farmer paid on- 
ly a fifth part for the ufe of his ftock and land, and 
for the fupport of government. After having tranf- 
ferred themfelves and property to Pharaoh, they 
could not have been freed on eafier terms : and as 
we often fee, that he who hires a farm, grows rich 
on a polTeffion on which the owner had been ruined, 
probably the Egyptians became as happy under 
their new tenure as they had been under their 
old. In the moft unfavourable light, it may be 
compared with the change that took place at the 
conqucll, when free tenures became feudal, charged 
with certain fervices. 

Our tranflation. Gen. xlvii. 2o', 21. fays, " So 
the land became Pharaoh's ; and as for the people, 
,he removed them to cities from one end of the 
borders of Egypt, even to the other end thereof.'* 
In the Septuagint it is, ** and the land became 
Pharaoh's, and he fubjed:ed the people to be fer- 
vants to him from one end of Egypt to the 
other." It is to the fame purport in the Samari- 
tan copy. This reads better, and is more pro- 
bable, than that Jofeph Ihould have made the 
whole nation, as Mr. Harris affirms, change fettle- 
ments in fuch a manner as if the people of Kent 
were fent to the Orkneys, and thofe of the Ork- 
B neys 



( i8 > 

neysWere brought to Kent. This would be fuch 
a trifling with peoples lives and feelings, fuch a 
wafte of property, fuch a perverfion of all ex- 
perience, and particular knowledge of the agri- 
culture proper in each diftrid, as is only appli- 
cable to the Leverpool (lave- trade ; but cannot^ 
on fuch flight grounds as this general expreffion 
is, be imagined in a man of Jofeph's charafter, 
with a pretended view to prevent rebellion. Or 
the exprefllon in our tranflation may bear, thac 
the people were dift:ributed fo as to be near 
the refpedive Itore-houfes, on which their main- 
tenance was afl^igned. 

Therefore " the change made, p. 25, 26, in the 
happy condition of the Egyptians, the tranfpor- 
tation of 7 or 8 millions of every age, fex, condi- 
tion, rank; infants, children, decrepit, infirm, deli- 
cate, through the fcorching fands of a parched up 
country," is the mere fidion of imagination, to 
palliate the fl:ill more fhocking condud of the 
writer's patrons of Leverpool. The iEgyptians 
off'ered themfelves for fervants, to fave themfelves 
from ftarving. His patrons force the Africans to 
be flaves, not as he fays, from '^ a ftate of abfo- 
lute indigence," but reduced from plenty and 
eafe to famine, nakednefs, and want, by ftripes, 
fetters, cruelty and oppreflion. 

Page 28. It is faid, " Jofeph, when able to 
relieve them, took advantage of the extreme in- 
digence of the ^Egyptians, to reduce them into 
the condition of flaves, and in this aded by the 
immediate diredion of God, who made this work 
to profper.'* Suppofing all this true, yet there is 
nothing common between this tranfadion and the 
Leverpool African commerce i but the author's 

having 



( J? ) 

having given them one common name, '^ Have- 
trade." The ^Egyptians, after a fair transfer of 
themfelves and goods, are left in full poffcflion of 
their lands and property, on paying fuch a rent as 
would adl as a fpur to induftry, while it checked 
that luxury which the author defcribes, p. 25, as 
prevailing in JEgypt. The Leverpool flaves are 
reduced from freedom to a bafe, helplefs, unprofit- 
able, wretched ftate. 

When this writer, p. 27, confiders the four- 
fifths of the produce left with the ^Egyptian far- 
mer, as only equivalent to the keep of a Weft-In- 
dian flave, he muft raife a blufli on the fugar 
planter's cheek; who willingly would leave but one 
fifth, (the rum) both to fupport his plantation 
flock, and maintain his Haves. 

But let Jofeph's conduct be what the writer 
pleafcs to defcribe it. He was not the iegiflator 
of iEgypt, but the minifter of Pharaoh, and oblig- 
ed to govern himfelf by the prevailing cuftomsof 
the kingdom. It appears, he extended only the 
king's revenues, and gave him fuch a command 
over the property of the people, as might enable 
him to arrange the management of it to the bed 
general advantage. This might be peculiarly 
proper in iEgypt, though not neceflary to be 
imitated here. Its fertility depended on the 
equal diftribution of the waters of the Nile. Ic 
was necefiary for the general benefit, that there 
Ihould be an indifputed power to dire6t thecourfe 
of the various canals, which communicated the 
water to each diftridt. While the king had an 
equal intereft in all, no particular part would be 
negleded. Jofcph gives four-fifths of the pro- 
duce, " for ittd of the field, and for your food, 
and for them of your houfliolds, and for food for 

B 2 your 



( ao ) 

your little ones." This confines the peoples (bare 
to their own maintenance, and the fupply of feed.. 
We are left to conclude, that every expenfe at- 
tending the diftribution of the river, except perhaps 
manual labour, was paid out of the king's fifth 
part : and as in all good governments, the intereft 
gf the king and the people is one, Jofeph, by 
his nominal purchafe of the people and their 
lands, might probably have in view fuch an ac- 
ceflion of power, as might enable him to direct 
the whole to general advantage. After the char- 
ter was confirmed, no ill ufe could be made of the 
power, and an Englifh farmer would gladly pay 
one-fifth of his produce to him who fhould ftock 
his farm, and pay his rent, and all his publick and 
parifh taxes. 

Page 38. " The Jews are not reflrained from 
purchafing their own brethren." The Jews were 
commanded to treat their brethren, when reduced 
to a fix years fervitude, with lenity, as hired or 
free fcrvants, and to fend them out in thefabbati- 
cal year free, and not let them go away empty. 
The only cafes in which we can fuppofe Jews 
could be made to ferve, are their being fold for 
debt, or their preferring the fervice of a mailer to 
labour on their own account. In thefe cafes, the 
laws of Mofes take care of them, that they be not 
oppreffed, and, befides the original purchafe- 
money of their fervices, to have a recompence 
when the period is finilhed. 

It is in this cafe of an Hebrew fervant, that we 
are to look for the genuine Mofaic principles of 
flavery. Even here the law exprefies a jealoufy of 
the mailer's conduct, and guards againll the abufe 
of his authority, reftricfling it to fix years, and pre- 
fcribing the manner of exercilmg it. Therefore 

when 



( 2» ) 

when the Jews are allowed to make perpetual 
ilaves of the Heathen, we are to confider it as a 
particular difpenfation refpeding their fituation 
among idolaters, by which, in every flave, they 
made a profelyte to the true religion ; or like di- 
vorces, an indulgence to their hardnefs of heart, 
which was not then capable of the purity and be- 
nevolence of the gofpel, by which, marriage was 
made perpetual, and all men were to be treated as 
brethren. We can infer the dodrine of perpetual 
flavery as little from its permiflion to the Jews,, 
as we can the keeping of concubines from the 
pra61:ice of Abraham, or David. Divorces are 
permitted to the Jews in fimilar exprelTions with 
the permiflion to hold flaves ; yet our Saviour 
tells us, it was not fo from the beginning. Mofes 
(Dcut. xvii. 14.) gives diredlions for the choice 
and duty of a king, yet Samuel tells the Jews, 
they had offended God in afking for a king. And 
though God condefcended to give them a king in 
a manner which more unequivocally Ihewed his 
aflTent, than that approbation, fan6tion and com- 
mand, which the author incautioufly affirms to be 
given to the " Have-trade;" yet Samuel concludes 
them to be not the lefs guilty, for perfeverino- in 
the requeft. V/e fhould be more careful than this 
author fhews himfelf, how we apply our ignorant 
conje6tures to the divine conduftj as p. 16, 
" Without allowing the licitnefs of the flave- 
trade, it is impoffibJe to reconcile the juftice of 
God with his own fcriptural cjecifions concerning 
its nature;" that (p. 32) ^' God, without a glar- 
ing oppofition to the. rights of his juftice, could 
not have approved the conduft of Jofepli in enflav- 
ing the T^'.gyptians, and inflid:ed a killing punifli- 
jnent on Reuben for his inceft, if his enllavino- of 
B 3 the 



( 22 ) 

the JEgyptians had been a crime.'' Thefe ex- 
prcffions would be (hocking from an infidel j in 
what an horrid caufe doth a clergyman ufe them ? 

The minds of the Jews had been broken and 
debafed by the Egyptian bondage j the law was 
given them as a fchool-mafter to train them up for 
the perfed religion of the gofpel. Their conduft 
in the wildernefs, their frequent rebellions amidil 
miracles, and in the immediate prefence of their 
Divine Deliverer, can only be imagined by thofe 
who have had opportunities of feeing how man is 
fhorn of his worth by flavery. Only two men of 
all who were grown up when they came out of 
Egyptj were thought deferving to enter into Ca- 
naan, That whole generation muft be worn out 
in the wildernefs •, and their children muft be 
trained for 40 years before they are permitted to 
take pofifeffion. Their laws therefore refpedled the 
hardnefs of their hearts, though founded on prin- 
ciples which led infenfibly to perfection. Thus 
while the perpetuity of the fervitude of the Hea- 
thens condefcended to the hardnefs of their hearts, 
the eafy temporary fervice of their brethren looked 
forward to the gofpel times, not differing, but in 
being for a fixed period, frpm modern fervitude for 
wages in free flates. 

Therefore when this writer, p, 39. calls this 
latter fervice, " A S^ave Trade ;" the meaning of 
the terms is perverted. Or let him reduce his Lever- 
pool (lave trade to the cir<:umftances of a Jew ferv- 
ing his brother for fix years, and we fhall have few 
objedtions to bring againft it. What he calls there 
*f' felling him again,'^ was transferring his fervice 
to another brother (not an Heathen) for the re- 
mainder of the term., as an apprentice is turned 
Qver to ^ fecond mafter, 



( 23 ) 

Page 40. " If a Hebrew fervant had married 
a wife with confent of his mafter, fhe and her 
child became her mafter's property for ever." 
•This feems not to be candidly exprefled. This 
wife mufl have been an Heathen flave, for He- 
brew women had the privilege of the Sabbatical 
year -, but if he chofe to continue with his wife, 
he had only to renew his comraft with his mafter. 
Indeed the regulation appears to have been in- 
tended as a check to the connecbion with (laves in 
the poor reduced Hebrews. 

Page 41, 42. When he fpeaks of the (Lever- 
pool) " (lave trade having the fanftion of being 
encouraged, almoft commanded, and even en- 
joined, to be profecuted by the Supreme Legif- 
lator," he puts oppofition to filence. But when, 
p. 43. he talks of " the Almighty's forgetting 
himfelf, when he encouraged the (lave trade, if it 
be a crime," I am happy for his fake to recollect, 
that the author tells us, till he was 27 years old^ 
he knew not the value of an Englifli expreffion. 

Page 43. The llavery of the Gibeonites. 

The land of Canaan was allotted to the Jews 
for an inheritance. The former inhabitants, for 
their fms, were to be extirpated, or expelled. The 
Gibeonites preferred flavery to this. Their fer- 
vices were allotted firft to the tabernacle, then to 
the temple. It appears from David's application- 
to them, on account of the famine brought on the 
land for Saul's maflacre of them, that they, were 
kept diftincl as a people. We may 'uppofe that 
they continued to occupy part of their ancient pof- 
feffions (for we find in David's time that even 
Araunah a Jebufite was a proprietor of land) 
and that they were in their turn draughted off for 
the fervice of religion j thofe who occupied the 
B 4 lands 



( 24 ) 

lands maintaining thofe who ferved. There is not 
one common circumltance between the manner of 
their becoming fervants, and the prefent Leverpool 
flave trade, and hardly any more in their treat- 
jnent. 

Page 50, On the fuppofition of the iniquity 
of the (Leverpool) " ilave trade,*' he fpeaks of the 
Almighty difturbing the coiirfe of nature, when 
the fun flood itill at Jofhua's command, to make 
it fubfervient to injuflice and oppreiTion, in vin- 
dication of ill-gotten property. Here he may be 
alTured the horror of the exprefTion will fecure him 
^rom contradiftion. 

Page 54. f' The flave trade," (flill Leverpool 
flave trade) is in perfeft harmony with the prin- 
ciples of the word of God refpefting juitice." 
P. 58. *' The infpired writers of the New Tefta- 
ment did not confider it as an infra6lion of the 
.principles of the gofpel." Nor did thcfe declare 
their own perfecution for righteoufnefs fake, to be 
an infraction of the principles of the gofpel. The 
keeping of flaves, which the author conftantly calls 
f the flave trade," was a cuftom then generally pre- 
valent over the world. Neitlrer were maftersor (laves 
prepared for a general manumifTion. The fpirit of 
Chriftianity was fuffered gradually to undermine 
this mafs of oppreffion, and wherever the gofpel 
has prevailed, it has in fa6l abolifhed it. . 

We have a fimilar inftance of this management, 
in the abolition of the ceremonial law of Mofes. 
The firft difciples, and even the apoltles, conformed 
to it, though they had declared it to be an unne- 
cefTary yoke, and they fuffered it to wear out grar- 
dually. That flavery was an evil, and therefore a 
fin in all thofe who inflifted it on others, in fuch 
a degree as to become an evil, is plainly declared 



( 2S ) 

in the gofpel. Our Saviour tells the believing 
Jews, If ye continue in my word, ye fhall know 
the truth, and the truth fhall make you free 5 or 
fhall confer new privileges on you. If freedom be 
a privilege or an advantage, flavery is a degrada- 
tion and a difadvantage. But if a man be de- 
graded or injured for the caprice or profit of ano- 
ther, that other, under whom he fuffers fuch 
injury, is guilty of a fm. 

Again, St. Paul, i Cor. viii. 21, fays, '' Art 
thou called being a fervant, care not for it ; but 
if thou rnayeft be made free, ufe it rather." Here 
is plainly a direftion to the difciples to fubmit to 
their fituation, but to prefer freedom when fairly 
offered ; which in this cafe was its being purchafeci 
for them by the Chriftian congregation. This is 
explained, ver. 23. '' Ye are bought with a price, 
be not (Greek become not) ye the fervants of men." 
Avoid a fituation which muft debafe your mind. 
In the Revelations, xviii. 13. flaves and Ibuls of 
men are faid to be articles of trafHck in Babylon, 
the Mother of Abominations. This luppofeth no- 
thing very excellent in flavery, to make it be ap- 
proved of, and commanded to be profecuted by 
God. 

We may now account for the manner in which 
St. Paul applies to Philemon in behalf of his fer- 
vant Onefimus. He deiires him to receive him 
back into his family, not now as a fervant, but 
above a fervant ; a 'profitable inmate, a brother 
beloved. He would not take advantage of the 
privilege of an apoftle, to withhold Onefimus from 
his fervice, or confider his converfion as a bar to 
it, and therefore endeavours to effect a reconcili- 
ation between them. But from the manner in 

which 



{ 26 ) 

which the apoflle foliclts this favour, it is clear 
the lituation of Onefimus in the family was defir- 
able ; for he requefts it as a favour to Onefimus, 
and confiders not his interpoficion, as the confcr- 
rinor of an obligation on Philemon. All this is 
very oppofite to that Weft-lndian flavtry with 
which this of Onefimus, p. Gc^. is compared. For 
the mafter only is considered here -, neither the 
feelings nor profit of the flave is taken into account. 

Page 72, 73. I fhall not difpute his expofition 
of doing as we wifh to be done by, as far as it 
goes, of " a flave's ferving his mailer, as he if a 
mafter would wifh to be ferved." But I would 
carry it a Hep farther. As I, a free man, fettled 
with my family and friends about me in my native 
country, would not wilh to be kidnapped, or to 
have my family enflaved, feparated, and carried 
bound neck and heel, and ftifled in the foul air 
of a fhip's hold, all to be fold in a difbant coun- 
try, to toil incelfantly for a man we never knew, 
without food or raiment, except fuch fcraps as we 
may procure by breaking the labbath ; under the 
lafli of any unfeeling boy, who may be fet over us 
with a whip in his hand ; fo would not I be con- 
cerned in any fuch cruel opprefTive inhuman treat- 
ment of others. When this author publiihes his 
Second Part, it is to be hoped, this will be preiTed 
home on his Leverpool patrons. 

It is curious to remark, that in thefe refearches^ 
in which the wifdom and goodnefs of God is fo 
freely applied to the Leverpool flave trade, there- 
is not even a diftant hint given of the purpofe 
which is to be ferved by flavery, to Ihew it to be 
worthy ** of this divine approbation, the almoft 
divine commands.'* When God commands us 

ta 



( 27 ) 

to love our neighbour, our heart goes along with 
the precept. But if, as this author incautioufly 
affinns, we be commanded to exercife the flave 
trade, bow down our brother's body in bondage, 
and treat him ill, as Sarah did Hagar with impu- 
nity, we have no clue to trace out the agreement 
of the do(5lrine with divine goodnefs. If com- 
manded or enjoined to ufe the flave trade as it is 
now carried on, we are commanded, (horrid even 
in the fuppoficion) to commit murder, to ftarve, 
opprefs, fufFocate, and lead into exile, our bro- 
ther, who never offended us. Suppofe flavery 
approved of in revelation, yet furely robbery, 
murder, and oppreflion, are not approved there : 
and yet no man is originally reduced into a 
flate of flavery but by fuch methods: — at lead, 
when the advocates for flavery plead for a divine 
fandion to it, they fliould be able to lay down a 
method of making flaves of others, which fhall 
be innocent, and may def^rve that fan6lion. 

The Jews, for their fins, were given up to 
captivity. Their cities were to be deftroyed, their 
princes murdered, and their people carried to 
Babylon. The prophets invited the furrounding 
nations to come to the flaughter, and to the fpoil. 
Here is a divine command in ftronger terms than 
can be fnewn for the Leverpool flave trade, or any 
other flave trade or holding of flaves. Yet what 
follows. Thefe very nations thus invited, and 
even commanded to execute the divine judgments 
on the Jev/s, are defl:ined to deftrudion, are made 
to ceafe as nations, for having obeyed the call to 
vengeance. Edom was am.oiigfl: the firfl: in this 
field of blood, and flavery, and plunder. Hear 
the prophet Obudiah addrefs iiim : — " Thou 

Ihouldeft 



( 2§ ) 

ftiouldeft not have laid hands on their fubflance 
in the day of their calamity : thou fhouldeft not 
have flood in the crofs-way to cut off thofe of his 
that did efcape : thou fhouldeft not have delivered 
up thofe of his that did remain in the day of dif- 
trefs. For the day of the Lord is near on all the 
heathen J — as thou haft done, it fhall be done 
unto thee." 

The reafon is plain, though inftruments in 
God's hands to punifh a wicked people; yet in 
the execution of his juftice, they only fatiated 
their own hatred, cruelty, and avarice. Let there- 
fore the Leverpool flave trade be not only approved 
of, but even, as he fays, commanded by God ; 
yet if the corporation, in profecuting the infernal 
bufinefs, be aduated by avarice, or any other 
unworthy motive, and ufe cruelty, oppreffion, and 
inhumanity in the courfe of it, (and let thofe who 
ufe the trade lay their hands on their hearts, and 
let them, if they dare, deny the charge), then, 
fooner or later, divine vengeance will find them 
out, and plunge them into ruin with all thofe 
■who encourage or abet them in it. 

Page 75. CoroL jft. " The Scriptures declare 
the flave trade to be intrinfically good and licit." 
jSFot in any other pnanner than Jewifh arbitrary 
divorces, plurality of wives, or their original 
defire of a king ; all of which we know to have 
teen wrong from the beginning. 

CoroL 2d. " He is highly criminal who, refufes 
affent to the intrinfick licitnefs of the flave trade, 
declared in the Scriptures." I hope not, if he 
cannot find it there, and refolves not to meddle 
with itj till he has difcovered it, 

Corol, 



( 29 ) 

Corol. 3cl. " He who acquiefces not in the 
iicitnefs of the (lave trade, difbelieves the Scrip- 
tures." Anfwered in Corol. 2. 

Corol. 6th. " The abufes of the flave trade 
not an inducenaent to the Legiflature to abolifh 
it.'* If the (lave trade be, as it certainly is, in- 
feparably conne6ted with murder, oppre(rion, and 
every iniquity that has from time to time drawn 
down divine vengeance on guilty nations; and if 
the Legiflature be inftrudled in the nature of it, 
and be called on to put a flop to this murder anj 
oppreflion, and cannot pofTibly do it but by the 
abolition of the flave trade, (were the flave trade 
even commanded in the cleareft terms, which is 
not the cafe, but the contrary) then is the Leo-i- 
flature obliged, and called on by every motive of 
religion and prudence, to put an immediate ilop 
to it, that it may not bring ruin on the (late. 



F I N I s. 



Books by y. Ramjay» 

An ESSAY on the Treatment and Converfion 
of African Slaves in the Britilh Sugar Colonies. 
4s. Boards, 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invedives and Ob- 
jeftions contained in two Anfwers, publifhed by 
certain anonymous Perfons, to an ElTay on the 
Treatment and Converfion of African Slaves, in 
the Britilh Colonies. 2S. 

An INQUIRY into the Effeds of putting a 
, Stop to the African Slave Trade, and of granting 
Liberty to the Slaves in the Britiih Sugar Colo^ 
nies. 6d. 

A LETTER to James Tobin, Efq. late Mem- 
ber of His Majeily's Council in the Ifland of 
Nevis. 6d. 

A MANUAL for African Slaves, id. 

OBJECTIONS to the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade, with Anfwers. Second Edit, enlarged, gd. 



Alfo lately piibltjhed By the fame Author ^ 

A Volume of SEA SERMONS j fold by; 
Rivingtons, St. Paul's Church-yard. 

Essay on a SEA OFFICER'S DUTY ; fold 
by Robinfons, Paternofter-Row. 



BBsnas^^BsaB 



TRACTS 

O N T H E 

SLAVE TRADE, 

Publiflied by J. Phillips, George-Yard, 
Lombard-Street. 

An E S S A Y on the Impolicy of the African 
Slave Trade, byT. Clarkfon. In Two Pares. 2s. 
6d. boards. 

An E S S A Y on the Slavery and Commerce 
of the Human Species, particularly the African, 
tranflated from a Latin DilTertation, which was 
honoured with the Firft Prize in the Univerfity of 
Cambridge, for the Year 1785. Second Addition, 
with Additions, by T. Clarkfon. js. boards. 

A DESCRIPTION of Guinea, its Situation, 
Produce, and the general Difpofition of its Inha- 
bitants; with an Inquiry into the Rife and Pro- 
grefs of the Slave Trade, &c. By Anthony Bene- 
zet. A new Edition. 2s. boards. 

An ACCOUNT of the Slave Trade on the 
Coaft of Africa, by Alexander Falconbridge, late 
Surgeon in the African Trade, ^d, 

OBSERVATIONS on a Guinea Voyage ; in 
a Series of Letters, addreffed to the Rev. J. 
Clarkfon, by James Field Stanfield, late a Ma- 
riner in the African Slave Trade. 4d. 

A LETTER 



A LETTER to the Treafnrer of the,SocIety 
inftituted for the Purpofe of efFefting the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade, From the Rev. Robert 
Boucher Nickolls, Dean of Middleham, A new 
Edition enlarged, ^d. 

REMARKS on the Slave Trade, and the Sla- 
very of the Negroes, in a Series of Letters, by 
Africanus. 2S. 6d. 

WEST INDIAN ECLOGUES, dedicated to 
the late Lord Bilhop of Chefter, by a Perfon who 
refided feveral Years in the Weft-Indies. 2S. 

A SUMMARY VIEW of the Slave Trade, 
and of the probable Confequences of its Aboli^ 
tion. 2d. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. S. Smith, to the 
Rev. Mr. Hill, on the State of the Negroe Slaves. 
To which are added an Introduftion, and Re- 
marks on Free Negroes, By the Editor. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her 
Colonies, in a fhort Reprefentation of the cala- 
mitous State of the enOaved Negroes in the 
Britifh Dominions. By Anthony Benezet. 6d. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the Ne- 
groes. 4d. ^ 

A SERIOUS ADDRESS to the Rulers of 
America, on the Inconfiftency of their Conduct 
refpeding Slavery. 3d. 

The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the Op- 
prefTed Africans, refpedtfully recommended to the 
ferious Confideration of the Legiflature ofGreaE^ 
Britain, by the People called Quakers, ad. 



