Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://Www.archive.org/details/extinctionofslavOOIond 



THE EXTINCTION OE THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

AND 

THE CIVILIZATION OE AEEICA : 



A REVIEW 



THE AFRICAN SLAVE-TRADE, AND ITS REMEDY,'^ 
BY SIR THOMAS FOWELL BUXTON, BART. 



REPRINTED FROM THE WESLEYAN-METIIODTST JIAGAZINE 
FOR JULY, 1810. 



LONDON : 

PlJBIJSriED BY JOHN MASON, 14, CITY-ROAD 



* -Wl) !^OLD AT GG, PATERNOSTER -ROW. 



]«40. 



Ct% 75;'^- 7y m^i 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HA LI 



LONDON : 



PRINTED BY JAMES NICHOLS, > 

HOXTON-SQUAHE. 



• 



A REVIEW, 



It was justly remarked by Archdeacon Wilberforce, in Exeter-Hall, that 
there exists a natural indisposition to acknowledge that an arduous work, 
which was supposed to have been satisfactorily accomplished, must be 
begun anew ; and that the mind is unwilling to admit the idea of going 
back to the beginning, and commencing afresh the toils and exertions 
which were believed to be at an end. But even the Archdeacon himself, 
jealous as a son for his father's fair fame, is reluctantly compelled to 
allow, in common with all the friends of the Negro race, that the African 
slave-trade now prevails to a much greater extent, and inflicts on its 
unhappy victims a much larger amount of suffejing, than ever. Notwith- 
standing the years of strenuous endeavour, and the millions of treasure 
which have been expended to secure its abolition, it is shown, too clearly 
to be successfully controverted, that, at least, twice as many slaves 
are now every year landed on the other side of the Atlantic, as were 
annually torn from Africa at the period when the inhuman traffic was 
legally abolished by Great Britain ; and that the miseries of this increased 
number of slaves have been augmented in proportion to the greater 
difficulty and caution with which it has been prosecuted since it was pro- 
scribed as a contraband trade. 

The first part of the work now under revieiv has been upwards of twelve 
months before the public, and has undergone the scrutiny of all descrip- 
tions of persons ; but with whatever feelings, and for whatever purposes, it 
may have been subjected to the ordeal of criticism, this general conclu- 
sion remains untouched. From a note in the present edition of the work, 
it appears that Dr. Madden is of opinion that the Author's estimate of 
the number of slaves annually landed in Cuba, is considerably too high ; but, 
should this be really the case, it is to be borne in mind, that Sir Fowell 
Buxton does not take into his calculation the results of the slave-trade 
as carried on at Porto-Rico, Texas, and other places ; because he was 
una!)le to give, from official returns, the exact numbers which are yearly 
landed there. It is, however, morally certain that those branches of 
the trade which he has not exhibited in arithmetical numbers, would 
be more than a set-off against any deduction that might be made from his 

A 2 



4 EXTINCTION OF THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

estimate with respect to Cuba, supposing that the opinion of Dr. Madden 
should really prove correct ; and this solitary objection to one of the 
details does not therefore affect the general conclusion which Sir Fowell 
too successfully for the cause of humanity, has established. The review 
of the first part of his book, in our Number for May, last year, has already 
furnished our readers witli his various calculations; and we shall, 
therefore, on the present occasion, only give his summary of the present 
fearful amount of the Christian and Mohammedan slave-trade : — 

" It is impossible for any one to reach this result, without suspecting, as well as 
hoping, that it must be an exaggeration ; and yet there are those who think that 
this is too low an estimate. I have not, however, assumed any fact, without giving 
the data on which it rests ; neither have I extracted from those data any immoderate 
inference. I think that the reader, on going over the calculation, will perceive that 
I have, in almost every instance, abated the deduction which might with justice 
have been made. If, then, we are to put confidence in the authorities v/hich I have 
quoted, (most of them official,) we cannot avoid the conclusion, terrible as it is, 
that the slave-trade annually dooms to the horrors of slavery — 

Christian 120,000 

Mohammedan 50,000 

170,000 

And murders — 

Christian 280,000 

Mohammedan 50,000 

, 330,000 



500,000 " 



(Pages 201, 202.) 

In tlie Prospectus which is prefixed to this volume, a dissuasive is very 
properly introduced against that feeling of despondency which the affecting 
discovery of the present extent and enormity of the slave-trade might 
possibly produce in some minds. After a statement of the results of the 
Author's inquiries, it is argued : — 

" Let no man, however, say, that these efforts have been thrown away. Who 
can tell how fearful might not have been the amount of enormity, if those exertions 
had not been made ? Who would presume to say, that the very assertion of the 
great principles of justice and truth has not accelerated the final extirpation of those 
detested practices ? Who would venture to assert, that a criminal inaction on the 
part of Great Britain might not have caused an indefinite continuance of the guilt 
on the part of other nations ? 

" But the people of England have not succeeded to the extent of their wishes :— 
Assuming it to be so, what remains to be done ? — but, led on by the same Christian 
principles, the same devotion to truth, justice, and humanity, to continue our efforts, 
and to apply, if possible, other and more efficient remedies in accordance with these 
great principles." (Prospectus, page 3.) 

This is a just view of the question. Bad as the case is, it might 
have been much worse. Had the trade gone on unchecked, it might 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 6 

have been quadrupled instead of doubled. Had no protesting voice been 
raised against it, that impression which has been made upon the public 
mind of the civilized world by an assertion of the principles of eternal truth 
and justice — an impression which cannot fail to accelerate the final triumph 
of the anti-slave-trade cause — would have had no existence. And, at all 
events, Britain has rolled away from herself an enormous load of guilt, 
which, ere this, might have brought down upon her the signal vengeance 
of Heaven, and have involved her in irrecoverable ruin. The unfa- 
vourable results of our past endeavours are only to be regarded as 
the trial of our national faith. The individual Christian, while contem- 
plating the apparent effect produced by the maintenance of his religious 
principles, might sometimes be tempted to think, that evil, rather than 
good, is the result of his integrity. But is he therefore to chide himself 
on account of his past fidelity, or compromise his principles with respect 
to the future ? Assuredly not ! Neither must the Christian public of this 
country regard past endeavours to extinguish the slave-trade, with a feeling 
of regret that those endeavours should have been made ; nor hesitate to 
renew and increase its exertions in a cause, which, if we believe our Bibles, 
we are bound to promote by all the legitimate means which Providence 
places at our command. Instead of yielding to despondency, it remains 
that renewed eflforts be made, and " other and more efficient remedies " be 
applied, in accordance with those great principles which prompted past 
endeavours. 

For our own part, we are strongly inclined to think, that the failure of 
those endeavours to accomplish the extinction of the slave-trade may be 
designed by divine Providence as a rebuke of the scantiness of that measure 
of justice which it was intended to award to Africa. It was resolved to 
abolish the slave-trade, and thus " cease to do evil " to her injured race ; 
but the whole of the divine precept was not attended to. We did not, at 
the same time, resolve " to do well," by making reparation to Africa for 
the wrongs which had been inflicted. By the countenance which had 
been given to the slave-trade, the attention of the natives had been 
diverted from the cultivation of the soil, which is now, in many places, 
entirely neglected, where formerly it was carried on to a great extent; 
lawless violence had been encouraged, and warlike and predatory habits 
had been cherished : and when all this amount of mischief had been 
effected ; and when the tastes, and habits, and pursuits of the population 
of Africa had all been moulded and fashioned by the operation of the slave- 
trade, — it was then proposed to abolish the traffic by which their character 
had been so mainly formed, and their circumstances regulated ; and thus 
leave them to the influence of the passions and propensities we had 
cherished, and (the cultivation of the soil having been neglected) destitute, 
to a considerable extent, of the means for engaging in a healthful and 
legitimate commerce. Wliat wonder was it, that Heaven should refuse to 



6 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

bestow on such an imperfect measure — good so far as it went, but so 
defective — the honour of extinguishing the slave-trade ? 

The great recommendation of the plan developed in the volume before 
lis is, that it proposes not only to put an end to the slave-trade, but also 
to make substantial reparation to Africa for the miseries which she has 
suffered during its continuance. The Author would go at once to Africa, 
and pour healing balm into the wounds which our cupidity has inflicted 
upon her. He would enlighten her ; he would call forth her latent energies, 
and impart to them a new and beneficial direction ; and thus raise her 
from the depth of her degradation, and give her a place amongst the 
civilized nations of the earth. In this view of the subject, the extinction 
of the slave-trade would be only one of the many beneficial effects of the 
enlightenment and elevation of Africa herself ; and should any persons still 
be found who would make the extinction of the slave-trade their almost 
exclusive aim, they would act wisely to adopt Sir Fowell Buxton's plan as the 
most efficacious that can be devised. Would it not be better to lay the axe 
at once at the root of the tree, than to content themselves with cutting olF 
the branches as they shoot forth? Will it not be wiser to dry up the 
fountain in its source, than to spend their time and strength in the useless 
endeavour to throw dams across the stream, the only effect of which, as 
experience proves, is to turn it into other channels ? 

On the cardinal point of our national obligation to make reparation to 
Africa, the Author, however, shall speak for himself. 

"One part of our national debt to Africa," he saj's, "has already been ackuow- 
ledged by the emancipation of our colonial slaves. There remains yet, however, 
a larger debt uncancelled, — that of restitution to Africa itself. We shall have much 
difficulty in ascertaining the amount of this obligation. Had we the means of 
discovering the total number of the sufferers whose miseries we have caused, or 
could we form the faintest idea of the nature and extent of the woes which are 
justly chargeable upon us as a nation, the duty of making reparation to Africa 
would be obvious. 

" Next to the debt which we ourselves owe, I can form no conception of a 
stronger argument in favour of carrying thither civilization and Christianity, than 
the existence of the slave-trade itself, as it is found at this day, attended, on the one 
hand, by desolation ; on the other, by a blind and devouring superstition ; and in 
all directions encircled by ferocity and carnage, by torture, by terror, by all the 
evils through which man can be afflicted ; and this variety of woes ending in the 
annual sacrifice of five hundred thousand human beings. 

" I repeat, that a stronger proof we cannot have, that it is the duty of the people 
of this empire to take up the cause upon Christian grounds, as a measure of atone- 
ment for the injuries we have done to her, as the only means now within our power 
of making restitution to her still degraded population, and as the most successful 
implement for uprooting from its very foundations that gigantic and accursed tree, 
which for ages has nourished beneath its shadow lamentation, and mourning, and 
woe. 

" Let but the people of this Christian country take up this cause as a duty, 
nationally and religiously, and no difficulties, however great, can, with the divine 
blessing, hinder its success. 



AKD CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 7 

" Nationally and religiously, the duty is plain. We have been put in trust 
with Christianity, — we have been the depositaries of a pure and holy faith, which 
inculcates the most expanded benevolence, and yet have not only neglected, as a 
nation, to confer upon Africa any real benefit, but have inflicted upon it a positive 
evil. Covetousness has dimmed our moral perceptions of duty, and paralyzed our 
efforts, during many generations ; and, now, that the nation has awakened from its 
lethargy, it is high time to act up to the principles of our religion. 

" Africa stiU lies in her blood. She wants our Missionaries, our schoolmasters, 
our Bibles, all the machinery we possess, for ameliorating her wretched condition. 
Shall we, with a remedy that may safely be applied, neglect to heal her wounds? 
Shall we, on whom the lamp of life shines, refuse to disperse her darkness ? 

" ' If there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship 
of the Spirit, if any bowels of mercies,' (Phil. ii. 1,) we must awake to the duty 
amidst every difficulty, of freely and liberally distributing to others those rich and 
abundant blessings which have been entrusted to us." (Pages 512 — 514.) 

" The Remedy," tlie second part of Sir Fowell Buxton's book, now for 
the first time published, comprises seven chapters : On Preparatory Mea- 
sures, — Commerce and Cultivation, — Facilities for Commercial Intercourse, 
— Results of Experience, — Principles, — Elevation of Native Mind, — and. 
Specific Steps to be taken. The last chapter affords a kind of syllabus, 
and is of such convenient length, that it might be given entire ; but we 
prefer to quote, instead of it, an extract from the " Prospectus," already 
referred to, which fully and explicitly marks out the course which the 
" Society for the Extinction of the Slave-trade, and for the Civilization of 
Africa," have bound themselves to pursue. Referring to the sentiment 
contained in the paragraphs which we have previously quoted, they pro- 
ceed : — 

" Animated by these feelings, a number of noblemen and gentlemen of all poli- 
tical opinions, and of Christian persuasions of divers kinds, have formed tliemselves 
into a Society for the jiurpose of effecting the extinction of the slave-trade ; and 
they now call upon the public to unite their exertions for the accomplishment of 
this great end. 

" That the British public, apprized of the extent of the enormity, and deeply 
feeling the guilt and misery now prevailing, will receive with favour the announce- 
ment of the formation of this Society, no doubt is entertained ; but various opinions 
do and will exist, as to the most fitting means to be adopted for the establishment 
of peace and tranquillity in Africa. 

" It is expedient, therefore, to state the leading principles on which this Society 
is formed, and the measures intended to be pursued. 

" It is the unanimous opinion of this Society, that the only complete cure of all 
these evils is the introduction of Christianity into Africa. They do not believe 
that any less powerful remedy will entirely extinguish tlie present inducements to 
trade in human beings, or will afford to the inhabitants of those extensive regions a 
sure foundation for repose and liappiness. 

" But they are aware that a great variety of views may exist as to tlie manner in 
which religious instruction should be introduced : distinctly avowing, therefore, tliat 
the substitution of our pure and holy faith for the false religion, idolatry, and 
superstitions of Africa, is, in their firm conviction, the true ultimate remedy for 
tjie calamities that aiiiict her, they are most anxious to adopt every measure which 



8 EXTINCTKtN OF THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

may eventually lead to the establishment of Christianity throughout that continent ; 
and, hoping to secure the cordial co-operation of all, they proceed to declare, that 
the grand object of their association is, the extinclion of the slave-trade. 

" The primary object of this Society will be constantly kept in view under all 
circumstances of difficulty or discouragement, as the grand end to which their 
efforts, of whatever character, should be resolutely and unchangeably directed. 

" As one of the principal means, they have cordially co-operated with Mr. Buxton 
in inducing Her Majesty's Government to undertake an expedition to the river 
Niger, with the view of obtaining the most accurate information as to the state of 
the countries bordering on its mighty waters. 

" The immense importance of this object alone, as opening a highway into the 
interior of Africa, and bringing the efforts of British philanthropy into immediate 
contact with the numerous and populous nations it contains, will be at once perceived 
and acknowledged. 

" It will be one of the first duties, then, of this Society, to watch over the pro- 
ceedings of this expedition, to record its progress, and to digest and circulate the 
valuable information which it may be confidently expected to communicate. 

" When this leading step has been taken, it is anticipated, that a large field for 
exertions of a different description will then be opened; but, desirable as such 
exertions may be, it must be clearly understood, that this Society, associated solely 
for benevolent purposes, can bear no part whatever in them. Still, in order that a 
comprehensive view may be taken of the whole, though each part must be accom- 
plished by agencies entirely distinct, it may be expedient to state some of the 
expectations which are entertained. 

" One most important department must entirely rest with Her Majesty's Govern- 
ment, the formation of treaties with the native rulers of Africa for the suppression 

of the slave-trade. Such treaties, however, will not be carried into execution, unless 
those wants which have hitherto been supplied from the profits arising from the sale 
of the natives, should be satisfied through the means of legitimate commerce. It 
may appear expedient to the Government to obtain from the Chiefs the possession 
of some convenient districts which may be best adapted to carrying on trade with 
safety and success ; and, when this is effected, another and wholly distinct Society 
may perhaps be formed, for the purpose of aiding in the cultivation of those dis- 
tricts, and of promoting the growth of those valuable products for which the soil of 
those countries is peculiarly fitted. 

" The present Society can take part in no plan of colonization or of trade. Its 
objects are, and must be, exclusively pacific and benevolent ; but it may, by 
encouragement, and by the diffusion of information, most materially aid in the 
civilization of Africa, and so pave the way for the successful exertions of others, 
whether they be directed to colonization and the cultivation of the soil, or to com- 
mercial intercourse, or to that which is immeasurably superior to them all, — the 
establishment of the Christian faith on the continent of Africa. 

"At home, this Society will direct its vigilant attention to all which may arise 
with respect to the traffic in slaves, and give publicity to whatever may be deemed 
most essential to produce its suppression. 

" In Africa, there are various means whereby it may effectually work to the 
same end. One of the great impediments at present existing to the advancement of 
knowledge, is the state of the native languages of Western and Central Africa. 

" Amongst the many nations which inhabit those regions, there are certainly 
many different dialects, and not improbably several leading languages. A few only 
of those languages have yet been reduced into writing; and, consequently, the 
difficulty of holding intercourse with the natives, and imparting knowledge to them, 
is greatly increased. By the adoption of effectual measures for reducing the principal 
languages of Western and Central Africa into writing, a great obstacle to the diifu- 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. f) 

sion of information will be removed, and facility afforded for the introduction of the 
truths of Christianity. 

" There is another subject, of no light importance, which would legitimately fall 
within the views of this institution. In Africa, medical science can scarcely be 
said to exist ; yet in no part of the world is it more profoundly respected. As at 
present understood by the natives, it is intimately connected with the most invete- 
rate and barbarous superstitions ; and its artful practitioners, owing their superiority 
to this popular ignorance, may be expected to interpose the most powerful obstacles 
to the diffusion of Christianity and of science. 

" To encourage, therefore, the introduction of more enlightened views on this 
subject, to prevent or mitigate the prevalence of disease and suffering among the 
people of Africa, and to secure the aid of medical science generally to the beneficent 
objects of African civilization, must be considered of immense importance ; nor 
would its benefits be confined to the native population. It is equally applicable to 
the investigation of the climate and localities of that country. To render Africa a 
salubrious residence for European constitutions may be a hopeless task ; but to 
diminish the danger, to point out the means whereby persons proceeding thither may 
most effectually guard against its perils, may, perhaps, be effected ; nor must it be 
forgotten, that, in however humble a degree this advantage can be attained, its 
value cannot be too highly appreciated. 

" Various other measures may come within the legitimate scope of this institution. 
It may be sufficient to recapitulate a few : The encouragement of practical science, 
in all its various branches. The system of drainage best calculated to succeed in 
a climate so humid and so hot, would be an invaluable boon to all who frequent 
that great continent, whatever might be their purpose. Though this Society would 
not embark in agriculture, it might afford essential assistance to the natives, by 
furnishing them with useful information as to the best mode of cultivation ; as 
to the productions which command a steady market, and by introducing the most 
approved agricultural implements and seeds. The time may come, when the know- 
ledge and practice of the mighty powers of steam might contribute rapidly to 
promote the improvement and prosperity of that country. 

'' Even matters of comparatively less moment may engage the attention of the 
Society. It may assist in promoting the formation of roads and canals. The manu- 
facture of paper, and the use of the printing-press, if once established in Africa, 
will be amongst the most powerful auxiliaries in the dispersion of ignorance, and 
the destruction of barbarism. 

" It is hoped that enough has now been stated, to justify the Society in calling 
for the aid and co-operation of all who hold in just abhorrence the iniquitous traffic 
in human beings ; of all who deeply deplore the awful crimes which have so long 
afflicted, and still continue to devastate, Africa ; of all who remember with deep 
sorrow and contrition that share which Great Britain so long continued to have in 
producing those scenes of bloodshed and of guilt. A variety of collateral means has 
thus been suggested, sufficiently important and interesting to demonstrate the neces- 
sity of a distinct Society, and to entitle it to the best wishes and firmest support of 
every sincere friend of Africa." (Pages 3 — 9.) 

It is gratifying to discover, that the Author and his friends set out 
upon the principle, that Christianity is the primary means of civilization. 
Had they not duly recognised this principle, they might have met with a 
disappointment similar to that which was experienced in America, as the 
result of endeavours to civilize the native Indian population. Persevering 
eflbrts to raise a barbarous people to the condition of civilized nalions. 



30 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

without the application of the Gospel, were made on a grand scale in the 
United States ; but the experiment completely failed : and the removal of 
the Indians to the far west was then resolved upon, on the assumed prin- 
ciple, that they were incapable of being trained and fitted to hold peaceful, 
beneficial intercourse with their civilized white neighbours. Most erro- 
neous was the conclusion to which the disappointed philanthropists of 
America came ; for some of those very tribes which were thus given up 
as irreclaimable, were afterwards, under the teaching of Christian Mission- 
aries, elevated and civilized. But that whole history serves to show how 
important it is, that a work of philanthropy be commenced upon sound 
principles, that we may be saved from the temptation to abandon the 
work itself as impracticable, when success is withheld from ill-judged 
measures. 

On the primary importance of Christianity, Sir Fowell, however, shall 
speak for himself. 

" The Gospel," he argues, " ever has been, and ever must be, the grand civilizer 
of mankind. Happily for Africa, a mass of evidence is to be found, corroborative of 
this assertion, in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons, in 
the sessions 1833 and 1834, on the Aborigines Question ; appointed to consider, 
amongst other things, ' what measures ought to be adopted to promote the spread of 
civilization among the Aborigines of our colonies, and to lead them to the peaceful 
and voluntary reception of the Christian religion.' A main branch of that inquiry 
was, ' whether the experience of the several Missionary Societies led to the belief, 
that it would be advisable to begin with civilization, in order to introduce Chris- 
tianity, or with Christianity, in order to lead to civilization.' It is a striking fact, 
that the representatives of the Missionary bodies who were examined on that occa- 
sion, without any previous concert between themselves on the subject of the 
inquiry, arrived at precisely the same conclusion ; namely, ' that there is no means 
so effectual, under the divine blessing, to benefit man for the life that now is, as well 
as that which is to come, as Christianity.' " (Pages 502, 503.) 

Having given copioiis extracts from the evidence of Messrs. Coates, 
Beecham, and Ellis, the Missionary Secretaries referred to in the pre- 
ceding quotation, and also of Mr. Elisha Bates, a member of the Society 
of Friends in America, he thus concludes : — 

" From these facts, gathered from different sources, the inference does not appear 
by any means doubtful, that, whatever methods may be attempted for ameliorating 
the condition of untutored man, this alone can penetrate to the root of the evil, 
can teach him to love and to befriend his neighbour, and cause him to act as a 
candidate for a higher and holier state of being. 

" The hope, therefore, of effecting Africa's civilization, and of inducing her tribes 
to relinquish the trade in man, is, without this assistance, utterly vain. This mighty 
lever, when properly applied, can alone overturn the iniquitous systems which pre- 
vail throughout that continent. Let Missionaries and Schoolmasters, the plough 
and the spade, go together, and agriculture will flourish ; the avenues to legitimate 
commerce will be opened ; confidence between man and man will be inspired ; whilst 
civilization will advance as the natural effect, and Christianity operate as the proxi- 
niate cause, of this happy change." (Pages 510, 511.) 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 11 

Had Sir Fowell Buxton, and the Society which he has had the honour 
of originating, confined themselves, hke the philanthropists of a former 
day, simply and exclusively to the extinction of the slave-trade, we are 
not prepared to say that that object might not, after all, have been 
accomplished, to a considerable extent, without the direct application of 
the Gospel. It is a fact which deserves to be noticed, that, wherever 
British settlements have been planted in Africa, the slave-trade has been 
stopped. This is the case at Sierra-Leone, the Gambia, and the Gold- 
Coast, on the western side of Africa ; and on the south-eastern coast, so 
far as the influence of the colony of the Cape of Good Hope extends, 
say for one thousand miles, the slave-trade has no existence ; but no 
sooner do we get within the range of Portuguese influence, than immedi- 
ately the accursed traffic is again discoverable, in all its horrors. Such 
striking facts may possibly warrant the conclusion, that were British 
settlements, for the purposes of legitimate commerce, multiplied along the 
coasts of Africa, the slave-trade would thereby be greatly diminished. But 
its suppression, by such a process, would not meet the whole case of 
Africa. Her population would not be elevated and civilized by such 
means. The interior might, notwithstanding, remain a theatre of blood, 
on which the most dreadful scenes would still be perpetrated ; for the 
reason that the slave-trade is not the only cause of the native wars. In 
this edition. Sir Fowell has greatly enriched the first part of his work, 
by adding a chapter on the superstitions and cruelties of the Africans. And 
we may remark, that these fruitful sources of misery would remain, were 
the slave-trade abolished on such a limited plan as we are now supposing. 
In places where the slave-trade might be extinguished, simply by the 
influence of British commercial settlements on the coast, the native African 
would remain, notwithstanding, a fierce and uncivilized barbarian. Legiti- 
mate commerce will not, of itself, civilize ; and abundance of evidence 
could be adduced, were it necessary, to show that, in parts of Africa, 
where an innocent commerce, instead of the traffic in human flesh, has 
been carried on during the last thirty years, the natives remain as much 
as ever under the influence of their cruel and demoralizing customs and 
superstitions. 

To meet the entire case of Africa, and to make suitable reparation for 
the wrongs which we have inflicted upon her by the encouragement of 
the slave-trade, the introduction of Christianity, it thus appears, is indis- 
pensably necessary. That alone can break the influence which superstition 
now exerts upon the native mind, and introduce the peaceful and tender 
humanities into social and domestic life ; and in the course of this regene- 
rating process, the extinction of the slave-trade will take place as one only 
of the delightful results of true civilization. 

There is yet, however, another view under which the importance of 
Chriblianily might bo argued. Without it, the domestic slavery of Africa 



12 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

cannot be extinguished. The Author's plan has, indeed, been objected 
to, on the ground that it will cherish domestic slavery ; and that may 
possibly be its apparent tendency for a time ; but it is far less open to 
the objection than any other scheme which has yet been submitted to the 
public. The objection would seem to rest upon the principle, that African 
domestic slavery is merely a concomitant of the foreign slave-trade, and 
that it would soon die away, were the slave-trade itself abolished. A 
more erroneous view of the subject could not possibly be entertained. 
Domestic slavery enters into the genius of African polity, and is inter- 
woven with the entire social and domestic superstructure. By whatever 
method, then, the foreign slave-trade might be extinguished, this great evil 
would remain untouched, unless, at the same time, means shou-d be 
employed to change the African character. The native Kings and Chiefs 
would still have the time, the service, and the lives of their slaves at their 
absolute disposal ; and would employ them in the cultivation of the 
ground, or in any other way which would provide for themselves the 
means of sustenance, and minister to their wants and gratification. If, 
then, the plan of Mr. TurnbuU and others should be carried into effect, 
and the slave-trade should be abolished simply by cutting off the demand 
on the other side of the Atlantic, the domestic slavery of Africa would 
remain the same. The labours of the slaves might be partly directed 
into a new channel ; but they would remain slaves still, wholly at the 
beck of their imperious lords. This, we say, would be the inevitable result 
of such a plan ; because it is not framed with a view to operate directly 
upon Africa herself, and effect a change in the African character. Mr. 
Turnbull calculates that his plan will indirectly promote legitimate com- 
merce and industry in Africa ; but, should this be the case, it would be 
more likely that domestic slavery would be thereby encouraged, — than on 
the Author's plan, u'hich is to be worked out, not on the other side 
of the Atlantic, but in Africa itself; which will embrace every provision 
that prudence can dictate for discountenancing domestic slavery, and 
affording encouragement to free labour ; and which, above all, contem- 
plates the general diffusion of the Christian religion. If this grand and 
comprehensive scheme be fully carried into effect, and the African despot 
be taught to recognise, and treat as a brother, the abject slave who now 
trembles at his frown, the final and complete extinction of domestic 
slavery will follow as another of its legitimate results. But let all parties 
be solemnly assured, that, by whatever means the foreign slave-trade may 
be eventually abolished, unless the Gospel be fully and fairly applied, 
and the native character be moulded and fashioned anew by Christianity, 
domestic slavery will continue to crush the far greater portion of the 
population of Africa. 

The African Society, as we will designate the new institution, for the 
sake of brevity, do not, however, propose to teach Christianity, direclly 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 13 

and immediatehj , by an agency of tbeir own. " Distinctly avowing, that 
the substitution of our pure and holy faith for the false religion, idolatry, 
and superstitions of Africa, is, in their firm conviction, the true ultimate 
remedy for the calamities that afflict her ; " they, notwithstanding, devolve 
upon others the task of providing the appointed means for its introduction 
and diffusion. At first sight, the course which they mark out for them- 
selves may appear somewhat contradictory to the views they express ; but, 
on consideration, it will be found, that the Society have been guided by 
sound wisdom, in the practical conclusion which they have adopted. The 
attempt would have been hopeless, to frame a common method of Christian 
instruction, which a Societj', composed of individuals of so many different 
religious persuasions, could agree to adopt. The same reasons which 
attach them, as individuals, to their own respective creeds and modes of 
worship, would naturally have prevented them from concurring in a com- 
mon standard of doctrine and form of worship for Africa. And, after all, 
it is better that the work of Christian instruction should be left to JMis- 
sionary bodies. The dissemination of the Gospel will be accomplished 
much more effectually by institutions formed for that express purpose, 
than by a Society which should have a multiplicity of objects in view. 
Had the African Society proposed to impart Christian instruction by 
agents of their own, the work of Christianizing the African could only 
have shared their attention with many other departments of useful exer- 
tion ; but Missionary Societies devote to this work their undivided atten- 
tion and care, and are, consequently, the most likely agents to prosecute 
it with vigour and success. And, more than this, their agents will obtain 
more readily the confidence of the African. Making it their one business 
to promote his spiritual and eternal interests, they will more easily con- 
vince him that they have no sinister ends in view, but that they are 
really his friends, intent on promoting his welfare, than as if they were 
mixed up and identified with commercial plans and undertakings. 

But, although the African Society, for weighty reasons, does not impose 
upon itself the task of imparting religious ^instruction, it will prove a 
powerful coadjutor to Missionary Societies, and, indirectly, at least, con- 
tribute in many ways to the spread of Christianity in Africa. This will 
appear, as we proceed with the examination of its plans. 

The expedition to the Niger is the first specific measure which demands 
attention. Where shall the work of African civilization be commenced ? 
was the question which presented itself, as soon as it was determined 
that the extinction of the slave-trade should be sought by the regeneration 
of Africa herself. The plan of commencing on the western coast, where 
British settlements already exist, and of penetrating from thence into the 
interior, was not destitute of plausibility ; but it was preferred to aim, in 
the first instance, directly at the heart of Africa, and begin with the coun- 
tries contiguous to the Niger. It redounds greatly lo the credit of llcr 



14 EXTINCTION OF TUE SLATE-TRADE, 

Majesty's Ministers, that they entered cordially into the philanthropic 
scheme; and, early in the present session, recommended to Parliament 
that an exploratory expedition should be dispatched to the Niger, for 
the purpose of collecting information, and otherwise facilitating the work 
of African civilization. An extract of a letter, under date December 26th, 
1839, from the Right Honourable Lord John Russell, to the Lords Com- 
missioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, which is given in the Appendix 
to this volume, will be read with interest : as explanatory of the important 
objects which, in the apprehension of the Government, this expedition will 
be calculated to accomplish. Having dwelt at length on the increase of 
the slave-trade, in defiance of all the means hitherto used to prevent it, 
his Lordship proceeds : — 

" Her Majesty's confidential advisers are therefore compelled to admit the con- 
viction, that it is indispensable to enter u23on some new preventive system, calcu- 
lated to arrest the foreign slave-trade in its source, by counteracting the principles 
by wliich it is now sustained. Although it may be impossible to check the cupidity 
of those who purchase slaves for exportation from Africa, it may yet be possible to 
force on those by whom they are sold the persuasion, that they are engaged in a 
trafKc opposed to their own interests, when correctly understood. 

''■ With this view, it is proposed to establish new commercial relations with those 
African Chiefs or powers within whose dominions the internal slave-trade of Africa 
is carried on, and the external slave-trade supplied with its victims. To this end, 
the Queen has directed her Ministers to negotiate conventions or agreements with 
those Chiefs and powers, the basis of which conventions would be, first, the aban- 
donment and absohite prohibition of the slave-trade ; and, secondly, the admission 
for consumption in this country, on favourable terms, of goods, the produce or 
manufacture of the territories subject to them. Of those Chiefs, the most consider- 
able rule over the countries adjacent to the Niger, and its great tributary streams. 
It is therefore proposed, to dispatch an expedition, which would ascend that river 
by steam-boats, as far as the points at which it receives the confluence of some of 
the principal rivers falling into it from the eastward. At these, or at any other, 
stations which may be found more favourable for the promotion of a legitimate 
commerce, it is proposed to establish British factories, in the hope that the natives 
may be taught that there are methods of employing the population more profitable 
to those to whom they are subject, than that of converting them into slaves, and 
selling them for exportation to the slave-traders. 

" In this communication, it would be out of place, and, indeed, impracticable, to 
enter upon a /uU detail of the plan itself; of the ulterior measures to which it 
may lead, or of the reasons which induce Her Majesty's Government to believe 
that it may eventually lead to the substitution of an innocent and profitable com- 
merce, for that traffic by which the continent of Africa has so long been desolated. 
For my immediate purpose, it will be sufficient to say, that, having maturely 
weighed these questions, and with a full perception of the difficulties which may 
attend this undertaking, the Ministers of the Crown are yet convinced that it affords 
the best, if not the only, prospect of accomplishing the great object so earnestly 
desired by the Queen, by her Parliament, and her people. 

" Having instituted a careful inquiry as to the best and most economical method 
of conducting the proposed expedition, I find, from the enclosed communication 
from the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, that it will be necessary to build 
three iron steam-vessels for this service, and that the first cost of those vessels, 



AND CITILIZATION OF AFRICA. 16 

Including provisions and stores for six months, will amount to £35,000. It 
further appears, that the annual charge of paying and victualling the officers and 
men will be £10,54G. The salaries of the conductors of the expedition, and of 
their Chaplain and Surgeon, will probably amount to £4,000. In addition to this 
expenditure, presents must be purchased for the Chiefs, and tents, mathematical 
instruments, with some other articles of a similar kind, will be indispensable, for 
the use of the persons who are to be engaged in this service, when at a distance from 
their vessels. I have some time since given directions for the completion of this 
additional estimate ; but with those directions it has not hitherto been found prac- 
ticable to comply. The charge for this branch of the proposed service will not be 
very considerable. 

" I have to convey to your Lordships my recommendation, that, in the estimates 
to be laid before the House of Commons, for the services of the year 1840, the sums 
be included which are necessary to provide for the expenses of the proposed expe- 
dition to the Niger, on the scale already mentioned, under the several heads of 
expenditure." 

Three steam-vessels, of vsuitable dimensions, and planned with a special 
adaptation to this service, are already, we understand, in an advanced 
state of preparation; and the expedition is expected to sail from this 
country in the autumn of the present year, so as to reach the Niger 
at the season most favourable for the prosecution of its important objects. 
A more momentous undertaking, or one calculated to awaken a deeper 
interest in the enlightened and philanthropic mind, it is difficult to con- 
ceive. Never was an expedition sent to Africa to prepare the way for 
the execution of such magnificent plans for the advancement of her welfare ; 
and its arrival on her shores will form an epoch in her history, a period 
to be remembered in all future time. Considering the difficulties which 
will have to be surmounted, the delicate nature of the negotiations to 
be conducted, and the mighty interests involved in this expedition, — it is 
cause of no ordinary satisfaction, that its management is confided to officers 
whose high professional skill and extensive experience, combined with 
elevated Christian philanthropy, warrant the expectation, that, under the 
furthering blessing of Heaven, the expedition will answer the end for 
which it is designed, and prove the harbinger of incalculable good to 
Africa. 

When the expedition shall have accomplished its task, when the most 
suitable localities for the commencement of operations shall have been 
ascertained, and friendly treaties with the Kings and Chiefs have been 
made, and correct information obtained, — another Association, it appears, 
will be formed for the purpose of carrying out the agricultural and com- 
mercial plans which it may be deemed proper to adopt. This was con- 
templated as a requisite measure at the period of the formation of the 
Society. At the meeting of noblemen and gentlemen, held at the Right 
Honourable Stephen Lushington's, in the month of July, last year, after 
it had been agreed, on the motion of the Bishop of London, "That an 
Institution be formed, having for its primary object, the extinction of the 



16 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

slave trade, by adopting means for civilizing Africa, and encouraging and 
protecting the cultivation of the soil, and legitimate commerce," it was 
resolved, in the second place, — " That it may be of the utmost importance 
to the suppression of the slave-trade, and the civilization of Africa, that 
an Institution for agricultural purposes, wholly distinct from the Institu- 
tion named in the first Resolution, shall be formed ; and that a Provi- 
sional Committee be appointed for the consideration of the subject." It 
was then understood, that a number of gentlemen, participating in Sir 
Fowell Buxton's views and sentiments, were prepared to advance, on their 
own responsibility and risk, the capital necessary for carrying his measures 
into effect; being fully persuaded, that those measures would indirectly 
advance the commercial interests of this country, at the same time that 
they would confer upon Africa herself the blessings and comforts of 
civilized life. 

The specific objects to be accomplished by this second Association are 
described by the Author, in his concluding chapter. He there proposes 
the formation of an Agricultural Company, 

— " which shall, hereafter, send out persons well acquainted with tropical climates 
and productions ; to form settlements, guided by such arrangements and treaties as 
the Government may have made ; to commence pattern-farms and establish facto- 
ries, well supplied with European goods ; in a word, to use all the means that 
experience may point out, for a profitable and successful employment of British 
skill and capital in the African continent. A^o slavery, no monopoly, forbearance 
towards the natives, and utter enmity towards the slave-trade and slavery in all 
their forms, must be the fundamental principles of such a company ; and an honest 
adherence to these will, in my full belief, insure its prosperity and profit." 

It must be distinctly understood, that this plan does not contemplate 
the colonization of Africa, by emigration from this country. Had the 
African Society proposed such an object, and sought to attain it, either 
directly, by the application of its own resources, or indirectly, by means 
of the " Agricultural Company " hereafter to be formed, it would not 
have had the countenance of many parties who are now pledged to its 
support. It is not intended that white people shall obtain the proprietoi'- 
ship of the soil ; and that the natives shall be employed in its cultivation 
only as servants, the fruits of whose labours are to be enjoyed by their 
white masters. To teach the natives to cultivate their own soil, and draw 
out the natural resources of their country for their own benefit, is the 
primary object of the Society; and the " profit " which the Agricultural 
Company is to derive from the undertaking, is dwelt upon by the Author 
for the purpose of showing that an adequate remuneration for the capital 
employed in promoting this benevolent undertaking, will result from the 
legitimate trade and commerce that will spring up as the Africans advance 
in civilization. Sir Fowell does not seek to secure the aid of commercial 
and trading ca])italists, by telling them that Africa is a fine field for 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 17 

colonization, that the land may be bought cheap, and that native labour 
may be obtained at a low rate. He sets out upon a very different prin- 
ciple, and assures them, that if they will help him to raise Africa from 
the dust, and impart to her degraded and afflicted sons the advantages 
of civilization, they will not only participate in the pure and elevated 
reward which philanthropy derives from witnessing the happiness of those 
whom her exertions have blessed, but that they will have an additional 
recompence for their work of mercy in that advancement of our com- 
mercial interests, as a nation, which will be the result of their successful 
endeavours to benefit others. 

Let not, then, the apprehension be entertained, that the Author and 
his friends intend the colonization of Africa by whites. Their plan for 
elevating Africa is not to secure the land for our own redundant popula- 
tion, and then place the natives in subjection to a foreign race. This 
would have completely defeated their benevolent object. It would have 
been, in fact, something like a contradiction in terms, to propose to 
civilize and elevate Africa, by giving the soil to others, and reducing her 
sons to a state of servitude : and had they, indeed, absurdly proposed to 
accomplish their professedly benevolent object by such a method, it could 
not possibly have been carried into effect. The climate of Western and 
Central Africa, so unfriendly to European life, affords a sufficient protec- 
tion against all schemes of colonization. In the settlements and factories 
which may be formed, some white agents will undoubtedly be needed to 
direct and superintend the operations which may be carried on ; but the 
principal agents employed must be of African origin. " Agents to be 
obtained," is the heading of one of the sections of the sixth chapter of this 
volume, under which Sir Fowell expresses himself to the following effect : — 

" We have already seen the desirableness of educating and civilizing the inhabit- 
ants of Africa ; and a number of facts have been brought to light, tending to show, 
that there is at least as great a readiness on their part to receive instruction, as on 
ours to communicate it ; the question now remains, — Who are to be the instructers ? 
The climate is generally viewed as unfavourable to Europeans, and this being the 
case, I have great satisfaction in finding, that, from among the liberated Africans 
in our West Indian colonies, we are likely to be furnished with a number of persons, 
in whom are united the desirable qualifications of fitness for the climate, compe- 
tency to act as Teachers, and willingness to enter upon the work. 

" An important feature of the present time is this, that the exertions of the 
Z\Ii8sionaries in the West Indies are beginning to tell on their converts in the 
Missionary spirit which they have imparted. There is a feeling in the hearts of 
our emancipated ^Negroes towards the land of their origin, which seems to have arisen 
spontaneously in various congregations." (Pages 491, 492.) 

The Author then states, that in the month of December last, in the 
hope that openings would, ere long, occur for the employment of native 
agents, he caused a letter to be addressed to the heads of Missionary 
Societies, inquiring whether trustworthy persons could be found among 



18 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

the Christian natives at their respective stations in the West Indies, who 
would be well qualified to instruct the Aboriginal population around the 
settlements which may be formed in Africa, in the cultivation of the soil, 
and in the various arts and pursuits of civilized life ; and he furnishes 
some of the answers which he received to his inquiries, — answers which 
encourage the hope, that many of the sons of Africa, whom the slave- 
trade had torn away from her soil, — or, at all events, many of their 
descendants, — will become the instruments in the hand of Providence for 
enlightening and elevating Africa herself. Doubtless the Mission stations 
in the West Indies, and also at Sierra-Leone, and other parts of Western 
Africa, will eventually furnish a host of native agents, who, from their 
adaptation to the climate, and their intimate acquaintance with the native 
character, will be much better qualified for this work of philanthropy than 
agents sent from this country. 

Having promoted the expedition to the Niger, and otherwise secured 
the aid of Government, and having originated and set to work an "Agri- 
cultural Company," it appears that the African Society will then employ 
its energies in collecting and publishing information relative to the slave- 
trade ; in endeavouring to reduce the languages and dialects of Africa 
into writing, and to introduce the manufacture of paper, and the use 
of the press; in the promotion of medical science among the natives; 
in encouraging practical science, in all its branches ; in introducing 
approved methods of drainage ; in the formation of roads and canals ; and 
in other works of general utility. Thus, although the African Society 
will not directly engage either in Missionary enterprise, or in commercial 
undertakings, it will reserve to itself a glorious field for philanthropic 
exertion, in which it may expend, most beneficially for Africa, all the funds 
which British liberality may place at its disposal, and indirectly facilitate 
both the Missionary and the commercial plans which may be formed for 
the promotion of African civilization. 

It will obviously be able to furnish great facilities for the prosecution 
of Missionary plans. It may open the way, to some extent, for the intro- 
duction of the Gospel into the heart of Africa. We do not forget that 
Missionaries have frequently proved the pioneers of trade and commerce. 
We remember, that Missionaries have often gone with safety, where it 
would be perilous for the merchant or scientific traveller to venture. But 
we cannot close our eyes against the fact, that the discoveries of science, 
and the enterprises of commerce, have, in other cases, prepared the way 
for the march of the Gospel. Some of the most splendid results of modern 
Missionary efforts are exhibited in the islands and groups of the South 
Pacific Ocean ; but, is it probable, that those triumphs of the Cross would 
have been realized, had it not been for the discoveries of Captain Cook, 
or some other navigator ? What Missionary Society would have fitted 
out an expedition, and sent Missionaries in search of islands and groups. 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. ]9 

of the existence of which there was no intimation ? And would the Wes- 
leyan Missionary Society, at this moment, have had its way laid open to 
the capital of Ashantee, supposing there had been no British settlement 
at Cape-Coast ? Arguing from the past, it may fairly be anticipated, that 
the expedition to the Niger, which is now fitting out with the philan- 
thropic object of promoting the welfare of Africa, will, by the furthering 
blessing of Heaven, become the means of pointing out the path to most 
interesting fields of Missionary labour. Thus, although we hold, most 
unwaveringly, the principle, that the Gospel is the only effectual civilizer 
of barbarous men, we can most consistently cherish the anticipation, that 
the way for its introduction into the interior of Africa may be, in some 
sort, prepared by the expedition in question. 

Nor will the African Society merely open the way for Missionaries : it 
will prove a powerful auxiliary when they have actually entered the field. 
So far as it may succeed in reducing the native dialects to writing, and in 
introducing the use of the press ; so far as it may lessen the unhealthiness 
of the climate, by promoting drainage and the cultivation of the soil ; so 
far as it may furnish superior means of communication by the construction 
of roads and canals ; — to the same extent will it facilitate the operations 
of Missionary Societies, And great must be the impetus which will be 
given to the cause of Christianity in the interior of Africa by the employ- 
ment of Christian and well-instructed Negroes, brought from the Mission 
stations on the coast, or in the West Indies. The formation of settlements, 
composed of such individuals, in which the ordinances of religion shall be 
duly administered, will be like planting so many churches in the midst 
of the moral desert of Africa, and bidding them " arise and shine," 
for the benefit of the surrounding tribes and nations. 

And there is another mode in which the African Society will facilitate 
the Missionary work. By its means the Missionaries will be relieved, to 
a great extent, from the task which now, of necessity, devolves upon 
them, of instructing their converts from Heathenism in the arts and 
pursuits of civilized life — an employment which makes inroads upon 
their time, and not unfrequently exposes them to the calumnies of 
worldly men, who endeavour to excite suspicion respecting their motives, 
and would make it appear that they are actuated by a love of lucre. But 
the African Society will interpose in this respect in behalf of Mission- 
aries. It will take upon itself the task of promoting agriculture, the arts, 
and healthful commerce; and will leave the IMissionaries at liberty to 
pursue, without interruption, their own proper and spiritual work, and 
thus protect them from the calumnies by which designing men of the 
world endeavour to injure their character in public estimation. 

In the preface to his " Remedy," Sir Fowell has remarked upon the 
objection which has been made to those passages in his book, in which 
he advises that our squadron may, for the present, be rendered more 

u 2 



20 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

efficient ; and that the settlements which may be formed should be pro- 
tected by the British Government. A certain class of his friends have 
objected to the employment of an armed force, even for protection, and 
would have none but moral means resorted to for the suppression of the 
slave-trade. How fully and satisfactorily he meets this objection, will be 
seen from the following extract : — 

" I have no wish to disguise my sentiments about armed force. I deprecate, as 
much as any man, resorting to violence and war. These are against the whole 
tenor of my views. It will be admitted, I think, that I have laboured hard in this 
book to show, that our great error has been, that we have depended far too much 
upon physical force. It is, however, the duty of out Government to see that the 
peace of our settlements be preserved. The natives, whom we induce to engage 
in agriculture, must not be exposed to the irruption of a savage banditti, instigated 
by some miscreant from Europe, whose vessel waits upon the shore for a human 
cargo. Nor must our runaway sailors repeat in Alrica the atrocities which have 
been practised in New-Zealand. Again and again the Foulah tribes said to the 
Missionaries on the river Gambia, ' Give us security, and we will gladly till the 
land, and pasture the cattle in your neighbourhood.' There were no means of thus 
protecting them ; and hence an experiment, founded on admirable principles, failed. 
But when I ask for an effectual police force, I ask for that only. I do not desire 
the employment of such a military force as might be perverted into the means of 
war and conquest. I want only, that the man engaged in lawful and innocent 
employment in Africa, should have the same protection as an agricultural labourer 
or a mechanic receives in England ; and that there, as well as here, the murderer 
and man-stealer may be arrested and punished." (Preface, pages iii, iv.) 

Although we have occupied considerable space in remarking upon 
the plan developed in this volume, we cannot close our notice of the 
momentous subject, without presenting to our readers the concluding 
arguments by which the Author recommends it to general considera- 
tion. 

He conceives that this country now occupies a peculiarly favourable 
position in the eyes of the world ; and that, having made such sacrifices 
for the abolition of slavery in our own colonies, we can now address 
ourselves in earnest to the task of abolishing the slave-trade, without 
exciting the suspicion that we are actuated by sinister motives. 

" England is at peace. Since the abolition of the slave-trade by Great Britain, 
it is not too much to say, that there has been, both at home and amongst many 
of the nations of the Continent, an increase of a benevolent and enlightened spirit. 
Our sincerity, with regard to the slave-trade, has been established, by sacrifices 
which admit of no misconstruction. The principles involved in that great measure 
have been carried out by the abolition of slavery, and by the willingness of the 
nation to pay the price of that most costly act of duty. Thus, then, we are in a 
condition (our own hands being clean) to ask the co-operation of France, Russia, 
the United States, and other great powers ; and we have a right to demand from 
Spain, Portugal, and Brazil, that they should no longer delay the execution of 
their engagements." (Page 523.) 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 21 

The discoveries which have been made in Africa, and the preparation 
in our West Indian colonies of suitable agents for the work of African 
civilization, are dwelt upon as encouraging circumstances. 

" Again : there are certain circumstances which render Africa far more accessible 
than at any former period. We now know the course of the Niger ; and an 
entrance into the centre of Africa is opened, by means of this noble river. We 
have now got, in steam, a power which enables us to traverse it ; to pass rapidly 
through the unhealthy parts of it ; to ascend it against the current ; in short, to 
command its navigation. 

" Beyond and besides all these, there is another circumstance lately brought into 
existence, which may supply us with the necessary agents, capable of enduring the 
African climate. I wish not, with too sanguine an eye, to anticipate the course of 
events ; but I cannot help believing, as I have elsewhere stated, that, in the present 
condition of the Negro race in our West Indian colonies, lies one of the best hopes 
of Africa. They are rising, under the influence of freedom, education, and religion, 
to a rank which will fit them to be messengers of peace to the land from which 
their fathers were torn ; and already, though the time has been so short, various 
distinct and unconcerted symptoms have appeared, proving that ' it pitieth them to 
see her in the dust.' 

" At the moment, then, that a highway is discovered into the heart of Africa, 
and that a new power is placed in our hands, enabling us to command its navi- 
gation, and that agents present themselves, qualified, by physical constitution, to 
endure the climate, and, by intellectual cultivation, to carry with them the seeds 
of true improvement ; at that moment, we learn the utter fallacy and inutility of 
the system for the suppression of the slave-trade which we have hitherto been pur- 
sumg." (Pages 523—525.) 

The argument in favour of the civilization of Africa, derived from 
the beneficial bearing which it would have on our own commercial inter- 
ests, is next urged. 

" But there is another consideration, though quite of a different order, which 
bears strongly upon this point. New markets for the sale of our manufactured 
articles are urgently required, at a time when we are excluded from some of our 
accustomed charmels of sale. 

" Nor is the supply of the raw material less important : new fields for its growth 
ought to be opened, in proportion to the increasing consumption of the world. I 
firmly believe, that, if commercial countries consulted only their true interests, 
without reference to motives of a higlier character, they would make the most reso- 
lute and persevering attempts to raise up Africa ; not to divide her broad territory 
amongst them, nor to enslave her people, but in order to elevate her into something 
like an equality with themselves, for their reciprocal benefit." (Page 525.) 

Then follows a powerful appeal to the best feelings of humanity, and to 
our national sense of duty, in favour of instant, strenuous, and persevering 
efforts, in despite of the diffi<:ulties and delay which may reasonably be 
anticipated ; which appeal is urged by a consideration of the vastness of the 
benefit those efforts may instrumentally confer on Africa. 

" But I am well aware, that it is a case in which we must act under circumstances 
of considerable discouragement; and especially that of our great ignorance with 
regard to the real internal condition of Africa, both physical and moral. 



23 EXTINCTION OF THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

" Upon any other subject, the dimness of our knowledge would supply an unan- 
swerable reason for pausing ; but the state of Africa admits of no delay. The com- 
plicated horrors which are crowded into the space of a single month furnish sufficient 
reasons for all possible dispatch, and for adventuring on measures which, under 
other circumstances, would be premature, and probably rash. Better to fall into a 
thousand errors in the detail, and to incur the expense and mortification of the 
miscarriages they will cause, than to sit still, and leave Africa to her woful fate. 

" If nothing be done, Africa will be, at the end of fifty or a hundred years, what 
she now is, and we shall still be as ill-informed as we now are of the readiest means 
for her relief. But if we grapple with the evil, we shall either find ourselves in the 
right road, or grope our way to it ; and the very mistakes we now make will serve 
to direct us aright hereafter. 

" I am not so sanguine as to suppose that we can at once, by a single eflTort, 
solve the problem which lies before us. The deliverance of Africa wiU put our 
patience and perseverance to no ordinary trial. We must deliberately make up our 
minds to large and long-continued expense, to persevering labours, and to severe 
disappointments. I wish not in any degree to conceal from myself, or from others, 
these truths. 

" But the question is, Shall such an experiment be made ? There are two mighty 
arguments which should prompt us to such an undertaking : the intense miseries of 
Africa, and the peculiar blessings which have been showered upon this country by 
the mercy of divine Providence. With regard to the first, I need not again plunge 
into the sickening details of the horrors which accompany this bloody trade, and of 
the sanguinary rites which there bear the name of religion. Whether we look to 
the vast space which is there made a theatre of public misery, or calculate how many 
deeds of cruelty and carnage must be perpetrated every day in the year, in order to 
make up the surprising total of human distress, which, by indisputable documents, 
we know to be realized, there is enough to awaken the deepest pity, and to arouse 
the most energetic resolution. 

" Turning to the second consideration, we cannot fail to see how signally this 
nation has been preserved, and led forward to an extent of power and prosperity, 
beyond what almost any other nation has been permitted to reach, ' It is not to be 
doubted, that this country has been invested with wealth and power, with arts and 
knowledge, with the sway of distant lands, and the mastery of the restless waters, 
for some great and iinportant purpose in the government of the world. Can we 
suppose otherwise than that it is our office to carry civilization and humanity, peace 
and good government, and, above all, the knowledge of the true God, to the utter- 
most end of the earth ? '* 

" Since that passage was written. Great Britain has refuted the idle, yet once the 
all-but-universal, doctrine, that confusion, havoc, and bloodshed must follow the 
extinction of slavery. And with this doctrine of universal convulsion has also fallen 
the allegation, that Negroes will not work, except under the impulse of the wliip. 
It is confessed, by every authority, that wages have charmed away what used to be 
called ' the natural and incurable indolence of the African.' I do not say a single 
word here upon the controverted question, whether the Negroes demand excessive 
remuneration. We may assume, for the sake of argument, that they are exorbitant. 
This may be a fault, though, under all the circumstances, not an unnatural or 
surprising one ; but this does not touch my assertion, grounded upon all the papers 
which have been produced to Parliament, that, when satisfied with the rate of wages, 
they do labour industriously, and execute more work, in better style, and in less 
time, than when they were slaves. There never was a greater delusion than that 
Negroes could not be induced to work for money. 

* " The Rev. Mr. Wliewell's Sermon before the Trinity Boarrl." 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 23 

" A nobler achievement now invites us. I believe that Great Britain can, if she 
will, under the, favour of the Almighty, confer a blessing on the human race. It 
may be that, at her bidding, a thousand nations now steeped in wretchedness, in 
brutal ignorance, in devouring superstition, possessing but one trade, and that one 
the foulest evil that ever blighted pubHo prosperity, or poisoned domestic peace, 
shall, under British tuition, emerge from their debasement, enjoy a long line of 
blessings, — education, agriculture, commerce, peace, industry, and the wealth that 
springs from it ; and, far above all, shall willingly receive that religion which, 
while it confers innumerable tanporal blessings, opens the way to an eternal futurity 
of happiness. 

" I have already confessed, that I am not experienced or skilful in matters which, 
touch the commercial part of the question. I tread this ground with diffidence. I 
say no more, than that it appears to me that, the soil in Africa being rich, and the 
people being found upon it, it is not advisable to carry them to a distance. It is 
possible, however, that some fallacy, unsuspected by me, may lurk under my theory, 
if theory of mine it can be called ; but when I come to humanity, justice, and the 
duties of Christian men, I stand upon a rock. It may be, or it may not, that while 
we act under the impulse of charity to the most afflicted of mankind, we are also 
obeying the dictates of the most far-sighted policy, and the most refined ambition. 
It may prove, or it may not, that, while we are leading Africa to grow at home 
cheaper sugar than Brazil, and cheaper cotton than the United States, we are reno- 
vating the very sinews of our national strength. Be this as it may, without doubt, 
it is the duty of Great Britain to employ the influence and the strength which God 
has given her, in raising Africa from the dust, and enabling her, out of her own 
resources, to beat down slavery and the slave-trade. 

" I am aware, that it is quite a different question, whether the means I propose 
are practicable, and likely to be crowned with success. It belongs to the nation to 
consider whether the suggestions now offered, and the policy which I have ventured 
to recommend, are likely to eradicate that mighty evil which desolates Africa, 
degrades Europe, and afflicts humanity. If it shall appear that my views are not 
chimerical ; that they have some grounds of reason in themselves, and are fortified 
by a great mass of evidence of a practical nature ; and if it shall appear, that, whe- 
ther we look to the great interests of humanity, or consult the prosperity and honour 
of the British empire, it is our duty to proceed, undeterred by difficidty, peril, or 
expense ; then, I trust, that steps wiU be taken, boldly and rapidly, for the accom- 
plishment of the object." (Pages 525 — 530.) 

The following passage, indicative of the agonizing sense whicli the 
Author feels of the aggravated miseries which our ineffectual attempts 
to extinguish the slave-trade are now inflicting upon its unhappy victims, 
cannot be read without deep emotion. 

" But if it shall appear, that this and every other plan are likely to be futile, or 
if the Government shall not feel itself justified in braving the difficulties and expense 
which will be required, then must I express my painful conviction, that it would be 
better for the interests of humanity, that we should withdraw altogether from the 
struggle ; better to let the planters of America satiate themselves with their victims, 
than to interjiDse our efforts, unavailing in reducing the magnitude of the evil, while 
they exasperate the miseries wliich belong to it ; better to do nothing, than to go on, 
year after year, at great cost, adding to tlie disasters, and inflaming the wounds, of 
Africa. But I cannot contemplate such a result. I must hope bettert hings." 

(iPage 630.) 



24 EXTINCTION OF THE SLAVE-TRADE, 

Having given utterance to this burst of feeling. Sir Fowell thus 
beautifully concludes : — 

" The case is now fairly laid before the nation. It belongs to no individual, to no 
party ; it is a distinct and isolated question. My desire has been to lay it upon the 
national conscience of Great Britain. There I must leave it ; having fully stated 
what I believe to be the only remedy, and the best means of applying that remedy. 

" I find, in the sacred writings, a faithful picture of sorrows, such as those with 
which Africa is now afflicted ; but I find also annexed to that description a prophetic 
promise, which we must fervently desire to see realized to miserable Africa : — 

" ' Thus saith the Lord of hosts, Before these days, there was no hire for man, 
nor any hire for beast ; neither was there any peace to him that went out or came in 
because of the affliction : for I set all men every one against his neighbour. 

" ' But now I will not be unto the residue of this people as in the former days, 
saith the Lord of hosts. 

" ' For the seed shall be prosperous ; the vine shall give her fruit, and the ground 
shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their dews ; and I will cause the 
remnant of this people to possess aU these things.' " 

Such an appeal to the national conscience and the public sympathy 
could not possibly be made in vain. Exeter-Hall has already borne 
witness to the effect produced ; and the combination of rank and talent, 
the union of persons of all political parties, and almost all religious persua- 
sions, which was there exhibited, encourages the hope, that the " Society 
for the Extinction of the Slave-trade and the Civilization of Africa" will 
obtain support adequate to the greatness and justice of its claims. We 
entertain the most confident persuasion, that the hearts of our Wesleyan 
friends beat warm in this noble cause. It would be strange indeed, as Dr. 
Bunting justly remarked at the public Meeting, if a religious body which 
was among the first to think of the Negro, and which, during the last 
fifty years, has made a larger expenditure, both of money and valuable 
Missionary life, for Africa and her injured race, than many others have 
had the opportunity of doing, — it would be strange indeed, should they 
prove indifferent to a plan which promises to confer such great and 
manifold benefits upon the objects of their sympathy and compassion — 
which proposes, not merely to deliver Africa from one of the worst of 
human evils, but also to confer upon her the greatest amount of positive 
good. "While, with ourselves, they wish success to every judicious effort 
to diminish the slave-trade, by lessening the demand beyond the Atlantic, 
they will especially hail a scheme which has for its object to put an 
end to the accursed traffic, by means of a process which, under the 
blessing of Heaven, will tend to raise Africa to a place among the 
Christian and civilized nations of the earth. Extensive pecuniary aid is, 
however, necessary, to enable the new Society to enter upon the noble 
field of usefulness which has been marked out : and our Wesleyan 
friends, we trust, will bear with us, while we respectfully urge upon them 
the importance of a prompt expression of their zeal, by enrolling them- 



AND CIVILIZATION OF AFRICA. 25 

selves, without delay, among the contributors to the Society's funds; and 
by uniting with their fellow-Christians and philanthropists of other names, 
to form AuxiUary and Branch Societies, for the diffusion of information 
in their respective neighbourhoods, and for enlisting the public generally 
in the support of the cause. Nor must prayer — earnest, believing, perse- 
vering prayer — be neglected. The greatness of the task to be performed, 
and the multiplied difficulties to be surmounted, might well induce de- 
spondency, were we unduly to rely on human means. But with God all 
things are possible : and, in answer to prayer, his blessing will not be 
withheld; the word of promise shall be accomplished; and Africa, as a 
part of that renovated world which we' now contemplate in the bright 
visions of prophecy, shall blessedly participate in the fulfilment of the 
prediction respecting Zion's prosperity : — " He will comfort all her waste 
places ; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the 
garden of the Lord." 



NOTE. 



Since the preceding pages were penned, a letter has appeared in the 
public journals, written by a distinguished naval Officer — Sir Robert 
Hagan — who has been several years in command on the coast of Africa ; 
and as it bears such decided testimony to the accuracy of the painful 
statements of Sir Fowell Buxton, respecting the horrors of the slave- 
trade, and expresses so decided an opinion in favour of his plan for its 
extinction, it is copied entire, from the persuasion, that the opinion of 
such a high authority ought to be generally known. 

" Gextlemen, 

" Uncoxnected as I am, by birth and property, with your great county and 
city, and known only to you through the medium of my official situation here, some 
apology would be due for addressing the public, through you, in the columns of a 
newspaper, did I not feel that a subject I address you on must shortly, if it has not 
already, enlisted the sympathies of every Christian, and that the testimony of the 
humblest individual, in favour of the efforts now making in England for the long- 
oppressed African, cannot but be acceptable to you and every well-regulated mind. 

" It is, therefore, with the hope that your great city and county, ever ready to the 
call of humanity, will not be slow in responding to that made by the Meeting over 
which our illustrious Prince recently presided, that I would earnestly entreat the public 
to peruse the work of that great philanthropist, Mr. Buxton. My service of eight years 
on the western coast of Africa, in command of Her Majesty's vessels, when it fell 
to my lot to capture forty vessels, having on board four thousand two hundred human 
beings, enables me to declare, that the horrors of the slave-trade, as described in 
that book, so far from being exaggerated, (as those unacquainted with the subject, 
and ]Mr. Buxton, might suppose,) are, in truth, underrated. I can, with perfect 
sincerity, assure you, that no pen can portray, no tongue, however eloquent, can 

C 



26 EXTINCTION OP THE SLAVE-TRADE, &c. 

tlescribe, half the horrors of that most iniquitous traffic. For these enormities a 
remedy is proposed, which my experience enables me to say, is perfectly practicable • 
but it will require the co-operation, assistance, and countenance of the wealthy, the 
influential, the benevolent, indeed, of every good man. Your great county and city, 
will not, I feel assured, be. backward in a cause so sacred, when fully infomied on 
the subject. Mr. Buxton's work, published at a cheap rate, wiU give this informa- 
tion, I earnestly recommend the perusal of it by every individual. 
" I am, gentlemen, 

'' Your most obedient servant, 
"Cove, «r. Hagaw. 

''JunelSth, 1840." 



THE END. 



LONDON : PRINTED BY JAMES NICHOLS, 46, HOXTON-SQOARE* 



