
fc A.^A^LSS^ 



"^ 



/K 



jA^^ .y/f/'/rf--^//f'r^a/^^/rjtf'/fJ'f^y 



6-^/^-ifc^^v^if5%^i 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/northstarpoetryoOOmcke 



THE NORTH STAR 



THE 



POETRY OF FREEDOM, 



HER FRIENDS. 



" No Man is born Slave to another: neither hath One Right to inherit the sweat of another's 
brow, or Reap the Benefit of his Labour, but by Consent. O ! that it would please them that are 
in Authority to put a Stop to this inhumane Usage, lest the Vengeance of the Just GOD break 
forth farther against this poor Land !" JVm. PenrCs England's Present Intertst. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
PRINTHD BY MERRIHEW AND THOMPSON, 

No. 7 Cartei-'f All--. 



.340. 



Af^S/'-^T 



2. 

Dec, 5. 1900 

C 
McKee Sale, 



CONTENTS. 



To the Morning Star, by John Quijicy Adams, 

The Sunny South, by Elizur Wright, jr. 

The Social Feelings, by J. Blanchard, 

Lines, by Mary S, Nelson, 

A True Patriot, by James T. Fields, . 

Death on the Pale Horse, by James Kennard, jr. 

The Prayer of a Lonely Heart, by Frances Ann Butler, 

Lines, by Lucy Hooper, .... 

The Dying Revolutionary Soldier, by Hannah F. Gould, 

A Voice from the Nile, by Eliza Earle, 

To a Friend, by the late E. M. Chandler, 

" For one is your Master, even Christ," by Louisa Simrs, 

-The Slaveholder's Address to the North Star, 

My Country, by William J. Allinson, 

The Dweller on the Mountains, by James T. Fields, 

To a Friend at the South, by Elizabeth H. Whittier, 

The Exiles- A Tale of New England, . 

To the Rainbow, by B, S. Jones, 

John Sumraerfield, by the late E. M. Chandler, 

'' The Earth is the Lord's,'' by Wm. H. Burleigh, . 

Wallenstien, ...... 

Egypt, (a fragment of an unpublished Poem,) 

The Dying Slave, (German,) .... 

Stanzas, to the Abolitionists of America, by Wm. H. Burleigh, 
Granada, ....... 

The World's Convention, by J. G. Whittier, 
Sonnet to the North Star, .... 



102 

103 
105 
108 

118 



NOTE. 

Amidst the trials and weariness attendant upon their pro- 
tracted efforts for the promotion of the holy cause of Univer- 
sal Liberty — separated as they are from the general sympathy 
of the community, and continually exposed, in their endea- 
vors to effect the deliverance of their country from its heaviest 
calamity, to unceasing prejudice, suspicion, and calumny — the 
friends of Emancipation have need of all the solace which 
may be derived from intellectual, as well as moral commu- 
nion with one another. Placed, in the allotment of Provi- 
dence, in different sections of our widely extended country, 
and with spheres of action, and surrounded by circumstances, 
in a measure distinct and peculiar, our hearts pine for kin- 
dred and companionship ; we would hold converse with 
the spirits of our fellow-laborers : the knowledge of the fact 
that they sympathize with us on a single point, fails to 
satisfy us ; we look eagerly for some token of their peculiar 
characteristics — some memorial of their individuality as in- 
tellectual and moral beings. 



VI. NOTE. 

It is with something of this feeling that the following pages, 
written by the friends of Emancipation, and, in moct instances, 
by members of Anti-Slavery Societies, are now presented to the 
public. The principal motive, however, which has induced 
their publication has been the hope that they may be instru- 
mental in awakening the attention of some now indiflferent to 
the wrongs of the slave — in calling forth sympathies now dor- 
mant — in exciting inquiry on the great question of Human 
Rights, and in animating the irresolute and doubting to re- 
doubled diligence, in the assurance that their labor for the over- 
throw of Slavery shall not be in vain, and that every plant 
which the hand of our Heavenly Father hath not planted shall 
be rooted up. 

Philadelpliia, Twelfth month, 1839. 



BaiGHT Polar Star ! Tried Sentinel of Heaven ! — 

The guardian angel of the sky of night 
Her northern gates unto thy care has given, 

Changeless as Truth, and steadfast as the Right. 

And like that Truth, and like that Right, thou biddest 
The bowed-down slave erect in freedom stand ; 

And the man-hunted wanderer safely leadest, 
To seek a refuge in a stranger land. 

When in the forest or the morass straying. 
Weary and worn, his eye still rests on thee: 

And while, behind, he hears the blood-hound's baying. 
Thy light shall guide him, and thy truth make free. 

Oh ! when that hunted one his flight hath ended, 
And fears no more the proud oppressor's rod ; 

Kind thoughts of thee shall with his praise be blended 
Unto the Giver of all freedom — God. 



TO THE MORNING STAR, 
Seen rising, 5 A. M., I6th of October, 1839. 

BY JOHN aXTINCT ADAMS. 

Bright star of morning! welcome to mine eyes ! 
More lovely than at eventide's decay, 
For now thou comest with the dawning- ray, 

And soon the glorious lord of light shall rise. 

Anon, his splendor shall emblaze the skies. 
And in his flame thy own shall melt away; 
But, mingled with his radiance, thine shall play. 

With lustre, though unseen, that never dies. 

Rise ! Morning Star of man's immortal soul ! 
Rise ! let thy beams irradiate the pole. 

Redeeming earth from midnight's ebon sway ! 
Dispel the gloom of Slavery's deadly shade ; 
Turn to the ploughshare War's ensanguined blade, 

And glow with promise of unclouded day ! 

Quincy, Mass. 



THE SUNNY SOUTH. 

BY ELIZUR WRIGHT, JR. 

O SUNNY South! the pride of lands, 
Whose joyous spring as Eden blooms ; 

Whose rivers sweep o'er golden sands ; 
Whose harvests feed a million looms ; 

Why looks an anxious world on thee, 

In sorrow for thy destiny ? 

Thy mountains catch the sun's first smiles, 
Thy balmy gales blow warm and soft, 

Thy ocean kisses loveliest isles. 
Thy matchless eagle soars aloft, 

A glorious emblem of the free, — 

Then wherefore weeps a world for thee? 

Thy heroes of the olden time 

Earth's best and noblest deeds have done. 
With sword and pen alike sublime. 

The world embalms thy Washington. 
W^hy, then, upon thee settles down 
A gazing world's indignant frown ? 



THE SUNNY SOUTH. 11 

ft is not that thy cypress trees 

Are palled about with sad festoons, 
That tremble in thy languid breeze ; 

Nor that, around thy dark lagoons, 
The saurian monsters sport and roar, 
E'en as they did in worlds of yore. 

It is that in those dismal shades. 

Among the rushes tall and rank, 
A trembling, famished wanderer wades, 

Who there, as wan, his God may thank 
For such a freedom from the chains 
That chattelized him on thy plains. 

It is, that to the kindest breast 
That throbbeth with a mother's heart, 

Two of thy noblest babes are prest ; — 
The one shall bear his lofty part 

Where councils sit, or banners wave ; 

The other, drag his chains — a slave. 

It is, that thou art lorded o'er 

By men who turn an adder's ear 
To every voice, from ocean's roar 

To tiny insect's humming cheer ; 
Or sigh of breeze, or gush of rills. 
That speaks of Freedom on thy hills, 

A* 



12 THE SUNNY SOUTH. 

It is, that when the joyous sea 
Bore from its Indian isles the song 

Of earth's most glorious jubilee, — 
Of Right triumphant over Wrong; 

'Midst a world's welcome, thou alone 

Answered the tidings with a groan, 

O sunny South ! how can it be, 
Thy soil, which ay with plenty waves, — 

In one year gives the fruit of three — 

Should drink the tears and blood of slaves? 

Saith not that generous soil to man. 

That Heaven approves the freest plani 

But who is free of human form. 

Throughout thy wide and bright domains] 
Who free, a generous heart to warm 

With sympathy for all in chains? 
Who freely breathes beneath thy sun, 
And feels its generous promptings? None! 

None ! — none of all thy chivalry ! 

From Pennsylvania's southern line 
To where the golden Mexic sea 

Engulfs the floods of dark Sabine ; 
Grim Slavery, like an ebon pall. 
Has settled down and smothered all. 



THE SUNNY SOUTH. 13 

And shall thy glorious sun awake 

No mind responsive to its light, — 
No heart from Error's spell to break, 

In prayer and conflict for the Right,— 
Beneath that sun's unclouded eye 
Shall moral darkness ever lie? 

No ; — perched upon thy mountain-sides, 

Or scattered in thy forest glades ; 
Or on the brink of Southern tides. 

Beneath thy golden orange shades ; 
Or hid where rolls thy Tennessee, 
Strong hearts are struggling to be free. 

Of both thy races, there are men 

Whose hearts beat high, as freemen's should, 
To throttle Slavery, in his den, 

Gloating o'er human bones and blood, — 
And throw his gloomy cells of night 
Wide open to the air and light. 

Awake, awake ! O sunny South ! 

Try what thy strongest chorus can — 
Give every tree and stone a mouth 

To rouse the dormant heart of man ; 
While yet the thunders, long delayed. 
Within thy blackening heavens are stayed, 

Boston, Mass. 



THE SOCIAL FEELINGS. 



BY J. BLANCHARD. 



What thing created brooks to exist alonel 
Eacii rock lies pillowed on some kindred stone ; 
Each tree, left single, spreads her widowed arms 
To blend with pollard mates her verdant charms ; 
Rills to each other's bosom steal, with care, 
Blend into one, and flow more quiet there ; 
Flowers spring by flowers, as solitude to shun. 
Breathe the same breeze, and blush to the same sun ; 
While stars in clusters gather as they move. 
The lighted lamps of Friendship and of Love ! 
Thus the rude forms of matter, unrefined. 
Show the dim world within the human mind. 
Thus Heaven itself, — that brighter world, which lies 
Beyond this beauteous earth and spangled skies, 
Is strongly imaged in the forms which here 
Please the glad eye, and sounds which charm the ear. 
"A social Universe !" — This joyous song 
Floats o'er the mute creation, loud and long. 
And bids the chastened spirit hope to share 
The social sweets which bloom immortal there. 



THE SOCIAL FEELINGS. 15 

How cheap is joy ! Ye mourning ones of earth, 
Griefs boon companions, born for sorrow's mirth ;— 
Blush at your woe. Even social sea-thieves gain 
Some comforts which you languish for in vain. 
Nor deem, unsocial wretches ! Heaven unjust, 
Though souls, like metals, unemployed, take rust. 
The heart's affections, like earth's living streams, 
Must flow in channel ; or like light, in beams ; 
If once self-centred, on their source they turn ; 
Like pools they stagnate, or like meteors burn. 

Man springs to life amid revolving spheres 
Whose changes mark the circling of his years. 
Placed on this rolling atom, as he flies. 
He marks its changes with delighted eyes ; 
'Till reason teaches, 'tis an emblem true 
Of all he ever thought, or hoped, or knew. 
Where shall he turn 1 The mind's unwearied wing 
Still plies her course — still seeks that fadeless spring 
Where Nature never frowns — no hearts beguile; — 
Nor grief-drops glitter through the dimpled smile. 
Where shall he turn] The infant's reverie. 
The youth's bright day-dreams and light hearted glee, 
Soon yield to manhood-cares ; — and these, again. 
End in the chill of three-score years and ten. 
Where shall his wearied spirit turn to find 
One moveless rock — one resting place of mind? 



16 THE SOCIAL FEELINGS. 

Go, ye repining, self-afflicting race — 
Go bid your hearts a Universe embrace! 
Its Author first, and next, in order due, 
His meaner creatures, down, at last, to you. 
Enough of bliss remains among us still. 
And he may make it his who hath the will. 
Love to our neighbor every state can bless, 
And give each heart all human happiness. 
Sweet social feelings ! Unobtrusive rays ! 
Mild beacon-lights from heaven's eternal blaze, 
Whose gentle beams, along life's darkened way, 
Guides earth's bewildered wanderers back to day, 
Hope's fickle light beams tremulously wan ; 
Her fancied joys, untasted, oft are gone. 
In Memory's wreath, both joy and woe combine, — 
Life's cypress blending with life's eglantine. 
But the large heart, which shares the weal and woe 
Of all enjoyed or suffered here below, 
Reveals the tie which binds man's heart to man ; 
The richest boon in God's eternal plan, i 

Blest social powers ! Not chastened hearts alone 
In sweet subjection bow before your throne ; 
No soul so lost but feels your genial power, 
And yields the soft obedience of an hour. 
On this I've gazed — and gazing, deemed I saw 
The social bond a whole Creation's law ! 



THE SOCIAL FEELINGS. 17 

The social feelings constant light supply, 
Eternal rainbows on life's varying sky. 

Suns of the soul ! Sweet soothers of all woe ! 
Balm-shaded founts where rills perpetual flow ! 
Your healing dews with life's harsh waters blend, 
Till he who lives a stranger, looks a friend. 
This hath been seen on earth's unnumbered plains ; 
This hath been felt as wide as misery reigns ; 
This shall be known when God's majestic car 
Hath crushed the broods of Slavery and War, — 
One realm of peace the Universe become, 
Mankind a brother-hood, and Earth a Home ! 

Cincinnati, Ohio. 



LINES. 

BY MARY S. NELSON. 

*' When thy feet enter into the city the child shall die. And 
all Israel shall mourn for hira, and bury him ; forhe only of Jero- 
boam shall come unto the grave, because in him there is found 
some good thing toward the Lord God of Israel in the house of 
Jeroboam." — 1 Kings xiv. 

The sceptre and the crown had passed 

From David's royal line, 
And power from Israel's spear was gone, 

And peace from Judah's vine. 

The shield was from the temple torn. 

The priesthood were defiled, 
And altars which were not the Lord's 

His chosen people piled. 

They built them on the stately hills 

And where the cedars grew, 
And the green places of the land 

The idol worship knew. 



LINES. 19 

They were altogether gone astray 

From the Lord Jehovah's ways, 
And the pausing thunderbolt hung dark 

Above the evil days. 

Within, waved red the alien swords . 

Without, the heathen spears ; 
Even Jeroboam's iron heart 

Grew faint with frequent fears. 

But now, beside a silken couch, 

Low knelt the warrior-king. 
Which a mightier monarch, even Death, 

Was darkly shadowing. 

The pale calm features of a child 

Upon the pillow lay, 
Touched with the look death only wears. 

Yet lovely in decay. 

Sad contrast seemed his father's face 

With Care's deep furrows drawn ; 
In tears, — but not for Israel's sin. 

Nor for his shaken throne. 

The war-worn man of middle years, — 
The child of summer's sweet; 



20 LINES. 

The cedar blackened by the storm, — 
The violet at its feet. 

"Haste ye," King Jeroboam said, — 
"And take this token-sword, 

Even to Shiloh, and entreat 
The prophet of the Lord. 

" Rich store of gold, and spices rare, 
And incense shall ye give ; 

And he shall pray for us to God 
So that the child shall live," 

The spearmen parted at the word. 
Laden with gifts and gold, 

And laid them at Ahijah's feet, — 
The prophet blind and old. 

He raised his sightless eyes to Heaven,- 
"Take back the gifts and sword, 

And bear to thy rebellious king 
This token from the Lord : 

"Thus saith the Lord to Jeroboam — 
1 that build up, cast dast down ; 

Mine arm hath gotten victory, — 
Mine outstretched arm renown. 



LINES. 21 

*' But for thou saidst within thy heart, 

Lo ! mine the spoil and spear ; 
And bent the knee to other gods, 

And walked not in my fear ; 

"Evil upon the land shall fall, 

And swift destruction light. 
Famine, and pestilence, and sword. 

By noon-day, and by night. 

As a reed o'er which the waters flow. 

Shall be their home and trace ; 
The leopard's track upon the sand, 

Shall mark their resting place, 

" Yet, for the child,— because his way 

Was pure before mine eye, — 
Even while thy spearmen pass the gate 

The child shall surely die : 

" For he, alone, my perfect law 

In his young heart did wear; 
And him unto his early grave 

Shall weeping Israel bear. 

*' All else of Jeroboam's house, 
In storms shall waste away ; 



22 LINES. 

The beasts of Earth, — the birds of Heaven, 
Upon their corpses prey." 

The spearmen passed the city's g;ate 
When sunset's light grew red ; — 

The king, within the dark'ning hall, 
Was kneeling by the dead. 

Those stormy days are long gone by, — 

We walk in calmer faith ; 
Yet happiest, even as of yore, 

The early called of death. 

We live to gather up remorse 

To haunt the close of life, — 
To sear, or break, the shrinking heart 

In daily cares and strife. 

We live to see our sunny stream 

Reflect the cloud or storm, 
Choked with the withered leaves, once green, 

In summer's sunshine warm. 

We live to strive with outward things. 

And inward griefs to hide ; — 
To feel the fierce and fatal stings 

Of wounded love and pride. 



LINES. 23 

We live to shed unwitnessed tears, 

To learn unwilling wiles ; 
To bear a crushed and aching heart, 

Yet dress the face in smiles. 

We live to weary of the past, — 

To loathe the present hour; 
To fear a future overcast 

By memory's prophet power. 

We live as strangers on the earth, — 

As captives with a chain ; 
And wish — how vainly — to lie down 

In childhood's peace again. 

Yes, loved of Heaven and blessed are they 

Who go to early graves; 
Thou knowest, thou child of threescore years, 

How many a grief it saves. 

Haverhill, N. H. 



A TRUE PATRIOT. 



BT JAMES C. FIELDS. 



It is related that when Socrates fell a victim to the passions of a 
partial tribunal and a deluded people, and all his disciples were 
terrified into flight, his friend Isocrates had the honorable intre- 
pidity to appear in the streets of Athens with the mourning garh. 

Ha ! leave ye, in affright, 
That sad, unmanly sight, — 

The corse alone! 
Have ye not one true heart. 
That thus from him ye part ? 

Are all, — all gone ! 

Reel back, ye cowering slaves ! 
Blanch, ye Athenian knaves, 

With pallid fear ! 
Look where the true man stands, — 
Look ! for the dead commands. 

The gray-haired seer ! 

Gaze on the patriot now, 

With still unrufled brow, 

In mourning robes ; 



A TRUE PATRIOT. 25 

Tremble ! he fears ye not — 
Stand back ! he seeks the spot — 
Grief his heart probes ! 

See how your soil he spurns, 
A lofty soul he mourns, 

Low bows his head. 
Say, can ye longer sleep ? 
Weep ! guilty cowards, weep ! 

Weep for the dead. 

Ay ! let the rushing tear 
Down every cheek appear, 

In sorrow driven. 
Pale are the lips that spoke. 
Hushed are the tones that woke, 

Calm thoughts of heaven! 

Haste ! matron, maid, and son, — 
Cry to each slumbering one, 

" Behold the slain." 
Pass on through every street. 
Bid every voice ye meet 

Take up the strain ! 

Go, charge the flying Greek 
That reverend form to seek, 
That silent bier ; 



26 A TRUE PARTIOT. 

Let not the city's walls 
Hold back your frenzied calls, — 
The ivorld must hear ! 

Oh ! ye have crushed the tie 
"Which bound that pulse ; no sigh 

Can break the spell ; 
In vain ye crowd around, 
He hears no sob, no sound, 

God-like '.—Farewell ! 

Boston, Mass. 



DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE. 
(A painting by Dunlap.) 

BY JAMES KENIfARD, JR. 

Not thus, not thus, should Death be shown, 

With fearful form and countenance, 
With writhing serpent following on, 

With hope-annihilating glance; 
With all that's withering to the heart, 

And all that's hideous to the eye, 
With hands from which pale lightnings dart. 

With all that tends to terrify ; 

Not thus should Death, our kindest friend. 

To mortal view be bodied forth ; 
Death — in whose bosom is an end 

To all the sin and woe of earth. 
Oh ! 'tis a heathen custom — this — 

From which all Christians should be weaned ; 
The friend who ushers us to bliss 

Should not be painted as a fiend. 



28 DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE. 

Around God's throne in heaven above, 

Death was the mildest of the throng ; 
His heart most filled with holy love, 

In warmth and charity most strong; 
For angels differ in their frame 

Like men, and not to all are given 
A mind and heart in each the same ; 

Thus all are not alike in heaven. 

When God ordained man's destiny, 

To Death the blessed task was given 
Of setting care-worn spirits free, — 

Of ushering souls from Eaith to Heaven. 
As downward on this blest employ 

He darted, on his pinions bright, 
How thrilled his heart with holy joy ! 

How beamed his countenance with light ! 

And ever since that blessed hour 

Has Death watched o'er each child of clay, 
As bends above her darling flower 

A tender girl, from day to day; 
Till when the bud appears — the germ 

Long-wished — and opes into a blossom, 
She plucks it from its native stem, 

And places it upon her bosom. 



DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE. 29 

Thus tenderly Death watches over 

Each strugg'ling spirit shrined in clay, 
Till, at the mandate of Jehovah, 

He bears the ripened soul away. 
The bond, the free, the high, the low, 

Alike are objects of his love; 
And though he severs hearts below. 

He joins them evermore above. 

T have a picture in my eye : — 

A bowed-down captive drags his chain 
Along his dungeon mournfully. 

And writhes and groans in bitter pain ; 
But suddenly the walls are burst, 

There rushes in unwonted light ; 
Dazzled and blind, he shrinks, at first, 

From his deliverer, with affright. 



And not until his prison wall 

Is left, although unwillingly ; 
Nor till his galling fetters fall. 

And leave the long-bound prisoner free ; 
And not until his quailing eye 

Is strengthened — can his gaze embrace 
The look of calm benignity 

That beams from his deliverer's face, 



30 DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE. 

And this is Death ! oh, paint him not 

As yonder canvass shows him forth ; 
Death, who removes us from a spot 

So full of sin and woe as Earth ! 
Oh ! 'tis a heathen custom — this — 

From which all Christians should be weaned ; 
The friend who ushers us to bliss 

Should not be painted as a fiend. 

Portsmouth, N. H. 



THE PRAYER OF A LONELY HEART. 

BY FRANCES AKN BTJTLEK. 

I AM alone ! Oh, be thou near to me, 

Great God ! from whom the meanest arc not far ! 

Not in presumption of the daring spirit, 

Soaring to find the secrets of itself, 

Make I my earnest prayer : — in the deep want 

Of utter loneliness, my God ! I seek thee ; 

If the worm may creep up to thy fellowship, 

Or dust, instinct with yearning, rise towards thee. 

I have no fellow, Father, of my kind ; 

None that be kindred, none companions to me ; 

And the vast love, and harmony, and brotherhood, 

Of the dumb creatures Thou hast made below me, 

Vexes my soul with its own bitter lot. 

Around me grow the trees, each by the other, 

Innumerable leaves, each like the other, 

Spring forth, and live, and fade, and fall together : 

Beside me bloom the flowers ; each rosy cup. 

Hath sisters leaning their fair cheeks against it , 

The birds fly all above me ; not alone, 

But coupled in free fellowship, or gathering 

A joyous brood, sweeping in companies 

The wild blue fields between the clouds : — The clouds 



32 THE PRAiTEE OF A LONELY HEAKT. 

Troop in society ; each on the other 
Shedding like sympathy, reflected light : 
The waves, a multitude, together run 
To the deep hreast of the receiving sea ; 
Nothing but hath its kind, its company, 
Oh God, save me alone ! — then let me come, 
Good Father ! to thy feet ; when even as now, 
Tears, that no human hand is near to wipe, 
O'erbrim my eyes, oh wipe them thou, my Father. 
When in my heart, the stores of its affections, 
Piled up, unused, locked fast, are like to burst 
The fleshy casket, that may not contain them ; 
Let me come nigh to thee : accept them thou. 
Dear Father ! fount of love ! compassionate God. 
When in my spirit burns the light, the fire. 
That have made men utter the words of angels. 
And none are near to bid me speak or live ; 
Hearken, oh Father ! maker of my spirit ! 
God of my soul ! to thee I will outpour 
The hymns resounding through my troubled mind, 
The sighs and sorrows of my lonely heart. 
The tears and weeping of ray weary eyes : 
Be thou my kindred, gracious, glorious God ! 
And fit me for a fellowship with thee. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 



LINES. 



BY LUCT HOOPER. 



" Tliink of tlie Providence which sent Theodore D. Weld to 
Alabama to ask James G. Birney by what right he held his slaves, 
and thus to arouse a conscience which, after vainly seeking rest in 
Colonization, at last colonized its owner into the front ranks of the 
Abolition Host." Letter of Professor Wright. 

A STUDENT mused at night — 

But not o'er weary tome, 
No dazzling gleams of human light 

Around him vainly shone. 
Before that student's mental eye 

One glorious truth was plain, — 
God had made brothers on the earth ; — 
Why had man wrought the chain ? 

Hour after hour, his memory ran 

O'er tales of grief and fear. 
He felt the captive's weary woe, — 

He saw the captive's tear ! 
Unblest to him the heavy hours 

The bondman sighed in vain, — 
Weeping among Earth's brightest flowers, 

Unpitied in his chain ! 



34 LINES. 

The student mused at night — 

His heart and lip were free ; 
The slave, the slave hath many wrongs, 

Where might his pleader be t 
Oh ! there, upon his musing hour, 

The holy impulse came, — 
His was the kindled heart to breathe 

Such wrongs in words of flame. 

Ere long by Alabama's tide. 

That pilgrim-student trod. 
And in the orange bowers proclaimed 

The message of his God. 
" Brother ! a call for thee — 

A call in holy name — 
A call to set the captive free 

From bondage and from shame. 

*' Brother ! the truth to me 

Came as I mused at night ; 
That holy truth I bring to thee, — 

Would it were graved in light ! 
That to thy heart, and in thy way. 

And ever on thy brain, 
The message of the Lord might say 

Loose from the slave his chain /" 

Oh ! blessed was the sower's hand, 
And blessed was the soil ; 



LINES. 35 



The good seed in the goodly land 

Rewarded well his toil. 
Another's heart was deeply stirred, — 

Another's pledge was spoken, — 
Another's voice in prayer was heard 

That every bond be broken. 

Oh God ! — that rulest over all, — 

Thine was the kindling light ; 
Thine was that student's waking call ; 

And Thine his musing night : 
And what avails man's stormy wrath 

When Thou the work hast blessed, 
And still dost plead in human hearts 

The cause of the oppressed. 

rooklyu, L. I. 



THE DYING REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER. 

BY HANHTAH F. GOULD. 

My Country, O ! thou glorious, fair and free, 

Still dear as ever to this aged heart, 
I periled life in fullest bloom for thee — 

I fought and bled to make thee what thou art. 

But now I'm weak and old — my work is done. 
Mine eye is dark — faint comes my sinking breath ; 

My hoary head is low — my setting sun 
Is gone — fast falls the dew and shades of death. 

The arm once nerved and raised in thy defence, 
The heart that throbbed for thee — my home of clay. 

To thee I leave : my Leader calls me hence : 
A minute-man of years, I must away. 

My brethren, they who struggled by my side 
To break thy bondage, and survived the day. 

Have almost vanished — one by one they've died. 
While I have lingered, asking, " where are they V 

Where are they ? surely not in such a grave 
As we had hoped would give our ashes rest ; 



THE DYING REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER. 37 

In earth nntilled, untrodden by a slave — 
Unburdened by oppressor and oppressed. 

For when we toiled thy liberty to win, 

A nation and a birthright so to gain, 
'Twas not to make an ingrate free to sin, 

And on the weaker still to lock the chain. 

'Twas not in power to set the franchised high, 

To grind the helpless with an iron heel, 
That we marched forth to free thee, or to die. 

And oar warm bosoms braved the lead and steel. 

Victorious, our first prayer was, then to see. 
As thy thank-offering meetest to be given. 

The chains of bondage clinched so fast by thee, 
Laid on the altar of indulgent Heaven. 

Soon we shall all have disappeared, and be 

But as the heroes of a tale that's told ; 
While thy glad children reap the sheaves where we 

Have sown in blood, but naught of us behold. 

And wilt thou let each monumental stone 
Reared to our memory, o'er our ashes stand 

Until it leans and falls, with moss o'ergrown. 

While bondmen's sighs spread mildew on the land 1 



38 THE DYING REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER. 

Oh my Columbia! hidden in thy camp, 
The Babylonish garment may be found — 

The wedge of gold forbidden, that must stamp 
" Guilt" on thy forehead, " evil" on thy ground. 

Close by the temple of thy liberty. 

Beneath its very droppings, groans the slave ; 

And thousands held in bondage by the free, 
Go fettered from the cradle to the grave. 

Within the echo of thy Congress halls, 

Where freedom towers, and right grows loud and bold, 
God's image, when the auction-hammer falls, 

The soul of man, is bidden for and sold. 

And while thy champion points a silver tongue. 

Or utters bolts of thunder in thy cause. 
Nature's soft heart by thee is torn and wrung ; 

And thou art trampling on her holiest laws. 

This, dear Columbia, is the fearful thing 

That keeps thee under heaven's impending rod ; 

And, not relinquished, on thy head must bring 
Sure retribution from a righteous God. 

Plead not, '* The children's teeth were set on edge, 
When sour, wild grapes the guilty parents ate." 



THE DYING REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER. 39 

Repent — give up the vest and glittering wedge — 
Do thy first works before it be too late. 

Let not thy beauteous banner shine afar, 
Its constellation blazing thy proud name, 

Marred by the glimmering 6f a fallen star, 
A lurid light that earth nor heaven will claim. 

Farewell, my country ! with this long adieu, 
Take thine old servant's blessing and his dust, 

And 0, receive a father's warning too ! 

Hope thou in heaven, but first to man be just. 

Newburyj)oi-t, Mass. 



A VOICE FROM THE NILE. 

BY ELIZA EAKLE. 

The Pacha of Egypt has declared to Colonel Campbell his in- 
tention to abolish Slavery immediately, in all the countries subject 
to his authority. 

A VOICE from the Nile ! — let the winged winds bear it, 
With the swiftness of light over ocean's broad wave, 

Till each nation, abashed in confusion shall hear it, 
Whose soil is impressed by the foot of the slave. 

A voice from the Nile ! — where her billowy waters. 
Wash the shores of Oppression's tyrannical reign, 

Where Egypt lamented her sons and her daughters. 
Where her first-born beloved by her altars were slain. 

Oh ! how humbling the thought, that the heathen before us 
To the temple of Freedom are leading the way. 

While the cloud of oppression still gathering o'er us, 
Obscures the full brightness of liberty's day. 

Let America profit by Egypt's example, 

And our own legislators sit down at her feet. 

Till demolished each archway of Slavery's temple. 
Where at orgies unhallowed her votaries meet. 



A VOICE FROM THE NILE. 41 

No more, in the shade of thy pyramids, weary, 

Shall the toil-oppressed bondman at midnight repose, 

Or beneath the tall palms, in thy solitudes dreary, 
" Forget in his slumbers the weight of his woes. " 

Those piles still endure, while the names of their fathers 
Are lost in the night of Obscurity's tomb, 

And darkly above them Forgetfulness gathers 
Oblivion's curtain of shadowy gloom. 

Thou law-giver just ! — a far greener oasis, 
On history's page shall be hallowed to thee, 

While a monument lasting, and changeless its basis, 
In the hearts of thy people erected shall be. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 



TO A FRIEND, 

On returning a copy of Halleck's Poems. 

BY THE LATE E. M. CHANDLER. 

I HERE return, with many thanks, 

Our Halleck's tale of Alnwick castle ; 
And if this be a world of hanks, — 
While bards like him so well can weave 
A song to make us laugh or grieve. 

Of modern times or ancient wassail, — 
They must be banks by gushing streams, 
Bright places for poetic dreams 

Of wild-flowers, not oi notes. 
"Where all, instead of jingling cash, 
The shaded waters coolly plash 

And woodland music floats. 

I ever loved the Percy name 

Since on the battle ground I stood, 

And heard a tale of one, who came 
In sorrow o'er the ocean flood, 

For hopeless love, or broken faith, 

In one who vowed to love till death. 



TO A FRIEND. 43 

Upon the battle-field he died, 

Where many a brow was blanched beside, — 

And life-blood dimmed the lucid shine 

Of thy bright waters, Brandy wine ! 

It was a man of hoary hair 

Who told the tale to me, with all 

That waking memory could recall 
Of that young gallant one— who there 

Within our quiet burial place, 

Afar from all his " high-born race," 
With nought of pomp, or solemn prayer, 

Or chaunted hymn, or weeping crowd, 

His war-garb for his only shroud, — 
Was laid to rest. The imaged fair 

Of her he loved, still fondly prest 

In death and darkness to his breast. 



« FOR ONE IS YOUR MASTER, EVEN CHRIST.' 

BY LOUISA SIMES. 

Joy, joy, to Afric's sons ! 

A day-star from on high ! 

The watchmen on the hill of faith 

With holy fervor cry ! 

Beams, beams, from Albion's coast ! 
The western isles are bright ! 
Deep unto deep and world to world 
Henceforth shall bear the light! 

High liberty comes forth ! 

Her sandals are of Peace — 

She holds the torch of Truth, and wears 

The mantle, Righteousness. 

What are the bounds of men 

To Him, who of one blood 

Hath formed the nations of the earth, 

A sacred brotherhood ! 



FOR ONE IS YOUR MASTER, EVEN CHRIST. 45 

Is this a Christian world? 

Are we a human race? 

And can man from his brother's soul 

God's impress dare efFace? 

Hath he respect for clay 
Himself hath paler madeT 
Are we not living temples all, 
Which only sin can shade? 

The EyB which marks the fires 
Sees equal glory there, 
Whether the sacrifice be touched 
By ebon hands or fair. 

How shall oppression cease? 
They who the slave would free, 
Would into ploughshares beat the sword ; 
Where then their liberty"? 

If those who wrong be loved, 
What power shall burst the chain? 
The hands of Ethiop are not stretched 
Unto her God in vain ! 

The iron of her wrongs 

Has pierced the Christian's soul — 



46 FOR ONE IS YOUR MASTER, EVEN CHRIST. 

And moral truth, by prayer made strong, 
What earth-power can control 1 

Almighty Father ! give 
To those whom men have crush'd, 
Grace to await that glorious hour, 
The rising of the just. 

To unbind the heavy weight, 
To let the oppress'd go free ! 
To break all yokes but that of love ! 
This, this is victory ! 

And angel hands shall twine 
The conqueror's brows with flowers 
Which gladden from the Spirit world 
The pure and good of ours. 

Then joy to Afric's sons, 

Be your deliverance nigh ! 

When but one master shall be yours, 

And He the Holy-High ! 

Poitsmoiith, N. H. 



THE SLAVEHOLDER'S ADDRESS TO THE NORTH 
STAR. 

Star of the North ! Thou art not bigger 

Than is the diamond in my ring : 
Yet, every black, star-gazing nigger 

Looks at thee, as at some great thing 1 
Yes, gazes at thee, till the lazy 
And thankless rascal is half crazy. 

Some- Quaker scoundrel must have told 'em, 
That, if they take their flight tow'rd thee, 

They'll get where "massa" cannot hold 'em, 
And therefore to the North they flee. 

Fools ! to be led off, where they can't earn 

Their living, by thy lying lantern. 

Thou'rt a cold water star, I reckon, 

Altho' I've never seen thee, yet, 
When to the bath thy sisters beckon. 

Get e'en thy golden sandals wet ; 
Nor in the wave have known thee dip. 
In our hot nights, thy finger's tip. 



D* 



48 THE slaveholder's address 

If thou would' st^ nightly, leave the pole 

To enjoy a regular ablution 
In the North sea, or Symmes' hole, 

Our " Patriarchal Institution," 
From which thou givest many a ransom, 
Would, doubtless, give thee something handsome. 

Altho' thou'rt a cold water star, 

A.S I have said (I think) already, 
Thou'rt hailed by many a tipsy tar. 

Who loves thee, just because thou'rt steady, 
And boldest the candle for the rover 
When he is more than " half seas over." 

But while Ham's seed, our land to bless, 
" Increase and multiply" like rabbits. 

We like thee, Yankee star, the less 
For thy bright eye and steady habits. 

Pray waltz with Venus, Star of Love, 

Or take a bout with reeling Jove ! 

Thou art an abolition star. 

And to my wench will be of use, if her 
Dark eye should find thee, ere the car 

Of our true old slaver-catcher, " Lucifer, 
Son of the morning" upward rolls 
And with its light puts out the pole's. 



TO THE NOKTH STAR. 49 

On our field-hands thou lookest, too— 

A sort of nio-htly overseer — 
Can' St find no other work to do? 

I tell thee thou'rt not wanted here ; 
So, pray, shine only on the oceans, 
Thou number one of" Northern notions." 

Yes, northern notions — northern lights ! 

As George Fox hated holy-water, 
So hate I all that Rogers writes, 

Or Weld — that married Grimke's daughter. 
So hate I all those northern curses, 
From Birney's prose to Whittier's verses. 

" Put out that light!" exclaimed the Moor, 
(I think they called his name Othello,) 

"When opening his wife's chamber door 
To cut her throat — the noble fellow ! 

Noblest of all the nigger nation ! 

File leader in Amalgamation ! 

" Put out the light !" — and so say I, 

Could " I quench thee, thou flaming minister !" 
No longer in the northern sky. 

Should burn thy beacon fire so sinister. 
North Star ! thy light's unwelcome — very — 
We'll vote thee, " an incendiary !" 



50 THE SLAVEHOLDER S ADDRESS, ETC 

And to the Northern States we'll write, 
And tell them not to let thee shine, 

(Excepting of a cloudy night) 
Anywhere south of Dixon's line ; 

If beyond that thou shine an inch, 

We'll have thee up before Judge Lynch : — 

And when, thou Abolition Star, 

Who preachest Freedom in all weathers. 

Thou hast got on thy coat of tar. 
And, over that, a cloak of feathers, 

That thou art "/j?erf" none will deny, 

If there's ?i fixed star in the sky. 

Pocotalico, Souih Ciirolina. 



MY COUNTRY. 



BY wm:. j. alliksox. 



** If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the 
things which belong unto thy peace!" — Luke xix. 42. 

My country, what name shall I give to thee? 
Shall I call thee the land of the brave and free ^ 
O'er thy beautiful surface, of mountain and plain, 
The blessings of Heaven have fallen like rain, 
'Till it seemed that the World's mature age gave thee birth 
To make thee the boast of the nations of Earth. 

Not the land of the free ! for yon glorious sun 
Darker scenes of oppression ne'er looked down upon ; 
Thy children in merciless bondage are found. 
Their sighs pierce the air, and their tears wet the grounj- 
So servile, they know not, they miss not the gem, 
The birthright of Freedom, pertaining to them ; 
The crown of their manhood is taken away — 
Pampered worms of the dust, they as Gods must obey. 

Not the land of the free ! for the tongue must be dumb, 
And the press, when the accents of Liberty come, 



52 MY COUNTRY. 

And 'tis treason the high truths of Freedom to speak, 
And death to befriend the defenceless and weak — 
There are fetters, my country, thy children to bind — 
And their souls are half quenched in that midnight of mind. 

Not the land of the brave ! for the brave could not bow 
From their chivalrous virtue, deep wrongs to bestow 
On the weak and defenceless, who, poor and forlorn, 
From all that humanity clings to are torn. 
The brave should be generous, and noble, and free, — 
But meanness unrivalled finds refuge in thee ! 
Thy sons dare not own their belief in the creed 
Which they blazoned abroad in the hour of their need — 
They dare not acknowledge that Freedom was given 
The birthright of all — the free boon of high Heaven — 
Guilt, guilt, makes them cowards^ — and servile and mean 
And relentless, they grovel still deeper in sin — 
Truth's sunlight effulgence — a radiant blaze 
In mercy shines on them — they cower at its rays ! 

Not brave ! for their dreams are of murder and graves — 

They are haunted with fear of their own trembling slaves — 

And their hypocrite flag, in the air as it waves. 

But vaunteth a freedom which freemen should spurn, — 

A bravery the brave should indignantly scorn, — 

Most coward and wanton assumption of might ! 

Most mean and detestable trampling on right ! 



MY COUNTRY. 53 

There are omens abroad in the air — and from Heaven 
And the deep holds of Earth awful warnings are given — 
There are thunder-clouds fraught with destruction and 

wrath, 
And the angel of vengeance surveyeth his path. 
Thou, Sodom ! thy region is terribly scanned — 
And, but that some righteous are found in thy land. 
Ere this had swept o'er thee the whirlwind and fire, — 
The hurricane blast of Jehovah's roused ire. 
God grant, when thy cup shall be filled to the brim, 
And the last drop of crime on the surface shall swim, 
And the Angel of Wrath on his mission goes forth 
In terrible justice to chasten the earth. 
That the mark of the Lamb on some foreheads may glow, 
And that those who are His, His protection may know — 
And may Mercy, the beautiful angel, attend 
And the down- trod den, wronged, and misguided defend. 

My countrymen wake ! — 'tis ignoble to sleep 
Till torpor and lethargy over you creep — 
Till intameness of spirit and blindness of soul 
You sink in the deluge which o'er you must roll. 
Until stern retribution your senses appal. 
And your liberties crumble, and totter, and fall. 
Ay, well may you quake for your freedom's decay — 
Yuu have wrenched it for ages from millions away! 



54 MY COUNTKY. 

And though God pour forth blessings and peace like a 

river, 
Oh think not his justice shall slumber for ever ! 
Then rise in the power of Godlike men, 
Give back to the injured their nature again — 
Nor think to fetter a brother-spirit. 
Who doth the citizen-right inherit 
From Heaven itself, at will to course 
The intellectual universe. 
And dare to be free ! — dare to proclaim 
The counsel of Freedom in God's own name ! 
Those TRUTHS which vilely aside you throw, 
They are robes of beauty ! oh wear them now ! 
Gird yourselves with them in Freedom's cause 
For a better meed than a world's applause. 
And battle sternly with tyrant might 
For holy truth and for holy right ! 
Plead for the slave though a world may frown — 
Lend him a shelter when hunted down — 
And He, unto whom the Heavens are dim 
Will tell you the deed was done to Him. 

Burlington, N. J. 



THE DWELLER ON THE MOUNTAINS, TO THE 
EARLY TRAVELLER. 

BT JAMES T. FIELDS. 

Pilgrim, haste ! the morning sky 
Echoes loud the eagle's cry ; 
While from many a warbling throat 
Gaily pours the matin note, 
Take thy staff and hither run 
Quick to meet the glorious sun. 

See along the hills below 
How the dewy cloudlets go ; 
Now in lingering groups they play, 
Now they hide the king of day, 
Now in fainter wreathes they glide 
Fading down the mountain side. 

Backward flung from cliff and stream 
Harshly rings the piercing scream ; — 
Peasants in the vale around 
Wake to hear the thrilling sound ; — 
Soon the cottage smoke will rise 
Curling o'er the ruddy skies. 



56 THE DWELLEK ON THE MOUNTAINS, ETC. 

For the last night's watchful care, 
Many lips are moved in prayer, — 
Let us pause in silence now, 
While with grateful hearts we bow, 
And among the shadows dim, 
Hear, oh God ! our morning hymn! 

Boston, Mass. 



THE FIRST OF AUGUST, 1838. 



BT WILZIAM 



Thou precious Gospel ! power is seen in thee, 

From every yoke to set all captives free. 

Where thy pure influence is truly felt, 

Spurned are all idol gods to which man blindly knelt. 

Hark ! to a voice o'er glad Caribbean waves, 

Telling that men walk forth no longer slaves. 

The fetters broke — for ever unconfined, 

Henceforth expatiates the immortal mind, — 

Doing what mind, free as it 's Giver, can, 

To prove the affinity of God to man. 

'Tis much that now the tiller of the soil, 

Shall henceforth reap the harvest of his toil ; 

'Tis much, — no longer in the world alone. 

He feels home's treasures are indeed his own. 

No tyrant's hand shall on his wife be laid, 

No ruffian dealer in his children trade ; — 

Nor to the cord and whip shall subject be 

The body, — yea 'tis more, — the soul is free ! 

The soul, once bought with priceless blood, and sold 

By man, unblushingly, for sordid gold. 

What earthquake cry has on that prison broke, 

And from the guiltless captive, loosed the yoke ? 



58 THE FIRST OF AUGUST. 

The same strong voice that rocked Phillippi's cell 
Has wrought Emancipation's work so well ! 
The Gospel's influence stooped to melt the chain, 
And bring up man to sit with men again. 
Oh speed it then, till on our millions fall 
Its warmth and light, which play upon the wall 
Of their sad dungeon, and barred out by sin, 
As yet, with blest deliverance, shine not in, 

Boston, Mass. 



TO A FRIEND AT THE SOUTH. 

BT ELIZABETH H. WHITTIER. 

A ROSE from the South — a beautiful token 

Of kindly remembrance and promise unbroken. 

Most brightly before me sweet visions arise 

Of the giver, a dweller 'neath sunnier skies : — 

Again at my side — in New England once more, 

All unchanged, and the same as I knew thee before. 

In the vale of our childhood I listen to hear, 

The laugh of my school-friend come glad on my ear. 

Oh ! the love of our birth-place ! that lingering rose 

Which no change in its bloom, and no autumn time knows ; 

Beneath the blue beauty of Florida's skies, 

Oh! surely sweet thoughts of New England arise. 

Where her rough chart hath glory and loveliness still, — 

The sunshine of valley — the shadow of hill. 

Ay ! the hills of the North -land — rock-girdled and grand. 

The glory and pride of her children they stand. 

The eyrie of freedom! by mountain and river, 

Shall liberty flourish, and slavery never ! 

Thy home of adoption — Oh ! soft is the breeze. 
Which languidly stirs the vine-garlanded trees. 
Where in sunshine or moonlight — at morning or even. 
The sweet gift of beauty is smiling from heaven ! 



60 TO A FRIEND AT THE SOUTH. 

Yet shame for the land where the palmetto waves 

In quiet and beauty o'er manacled slaves ; 

Where the laborer, God's freeman, bends over the soil 

And the whip is the quickener and impulse to toil, — 

Where the dull sullen motion of slavery is seen, 

And blighting has fallen where blessing has been. 

By that fondness which clings to the place of thy birth, 

Our Merrimack's valley — the brightest on earth. 

By the thoughts of that hearth-stone whose lustre is 

burning, — 
The starlight of hope and of joyful returning; 
Oh ! pity the slave of the South, — to her home. 
The foot of the spoiler all ruthless may come. 
She has love for her home ! — for the heart is the same 
Whatever its nation, or kindred, or name; 
And though trampled and spurned, like the cultureless vine, 
Around something the tendrils of feeling will twine ; 
The wretched slave-child ! when at daylight's dull close, 
From the damp swamp of labor she wearily goes 
To her desolate home, where no mother again 
May meet her when weary, and soothe her in pain : — 
She has nothing to love — she may sorrow for ever ! 
The mother she mourns may return to her never ! 
Toiling on, toiling on, each lamenting the other — 
The motherless child, and the daughterless mother. 
Oh ! pity that daughter, when strong in despair. 
She is fleeing away as a bird from the snare, — 



TO A FRIEND AT THE SOUTH. 61 

In the gloom of the midnight, a desolate being, 

Through the dark tangled forest in agony fleeing. 

Through the chill river wading, and hiding away 

In the damp, noisome swamp through the wearisome day ; 

From her chill covert springing, in agony deep. 

She listens — the blood-hounds have haunted her sleep. 

She may rest there no more — though 'tis lingering day. 

The death-howl 's behind her — God speed her away ! 

'Tis from Florida's beauty — her sunshine and song. 
That the slave girl is fleeing — the victim of wrong : 
From the land where the summer time lingers for ever, 
And the chill frost of winter, falls blightingly never. 
And thou, with thy childhood's free spirit, wilt spurn 
The crimes of that land, and still faithfully turn 
From the slave-trodden groves of the South-land, with 

dreams 
Of thy own free New England — her mountains and streams, 
Where no slavery lingers, a curse on her soil ; 
And her sons, wear as honors, the garments of toil. 

Araesbury, Mass. 



THE EXILES— A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

[The incidents upon which the following ballad has its foundation, 
occurred about the year 1660. Thomas Macey was one of the first, 
if not the first white settler of Nantucket. A quaint description of 
his singular and perilous voyage, in his own handwriting, is still 
preserved.] 

The goodman sat beside his door 

One sultry afternoon, 
With his young wife singing at his side 

A quaint and goodly time. 

A glimmer of heat was in the air, — 

The dark green woods were still ; 
And the skirts of a heavy thunder-cloud 

Hung over the western hill. 

Black, thick, and vast, arose that cloud 

Above the wilderness. 
As some dark world from upper air 

Were stooping over this. 

At times, the solemn thunder pealed, 
And all was still asfain, 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 63 

Save a low murmur in the air 
Of coming wind and rain. 

Just as the first big rain-drop tell, 

A weary stranger came, 
And stood before the farmer's door, 

With travel soiled and lame. 

Sad seemed he, yet sustaining hope 

Was in his quiet glance. 
And peace, like autumn's moonlight, clothed 

His tranquil countenance. 

A look, like that his Master wore 

In Pilate's council hall : 
It told of wrongs — but of a love 

Meekly forgiving all. 

"Friend ! wilt thou give me shelter here?" 

The stranger meekly said ; 
And, leaning on his oaken staff. 

The goodman's features read, 

" My life is hunted — evil men 

Are following in my track ; 
The traces of the torturer's whip 

Are on my aged back. 



64 THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

"And much, I fear, 'twill peril thee 

Within thy doors to take 
A hunted seeker of the Truth, 

Oppressed for conscience sake." 

Oh, kindly spoke the goodman's wife — 
*' Come in, old man !" quoth she, — 

"We will not leave thee to the storm 
Whoever thou may'st be." 

Then came the aged wanderer in, 

A.nd silent sat him down ; 
While all within grew dark as night 

Beneath the storm-cloud's frown. 

But while the sudden lightning's blaze 

Filled every cottage nook, 
And with the jarring thunder-roll 

The loosened casements shook, 

A heavy tramp of horses' feet 

Came sounding up the lane. 
And half a score of horse, or more. 

Came plunging through the rain. 

" Now, Goodman Macey, ope thy door, — 
We would not be house-breakers ; 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 65 

A rueful deed thou'st done this day, 
In harboring banished Quakers." 

Out looked the cautious goodman then, 

"With much of fear and awe, 
For there, with broad wig drenched with rain, 

The Parish Priest he saw. 

" Open thy door, thou wicked man, 

And let thy pastor in. 
And give God thanks, if forty stripes 

Repay thy deadly sin." 

" What seek ye]" quoth the goodman, — 

" The stranger is my guest ; 
He is worn with toil and grievous wrong, — 

Pray let the old man rest." 

" Now, out upon thee, canting knave !" — 

And strong hands shook the door, 
*' Believe me, Macey," quoth the Priest, — 

" Thou'lt rue thy conduct sore." 

Then kindled Macey's eye of fire : 

"No priest who walks the earth, 
Shall pluck away the stranger-guest 

Made welcome to my hearth." 



66 THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

Down from his cottage wall he caught 

The match-lock, hotly tried 
At Preston-pans and Marston-moor, 

By fiery Ireton's side ; 

Where Puritan, and Cavalier, 
With shout and psalm contended ; 

And Rupert's oath, and Cromwell's prayer, 
With battle-thunder blended. 

Up rose the ancient stranger then : 

" My spirit is not free 
To bring the wrath and violence 

Of evil men on thee : 

"And for thyself, I pray forbear, — 

Bethink thee of thy Lord, 
Who healed again the smitten ear. 

And sheathed his follower's sword. 

" 1 go, as to the slaughter led : 

Friends of the poor, farewell !" 
Beneath his hand the oaken door, 

Back on its hinges fell. 

" Come forth, old gray-beard, yea and nay;" 
The reckless scoffers cried. 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 67 

As to a horseman's saddle-bow 
The old man's arms were tied. 

And of his bondage hard and long 

In Boston's crowded jail, 
Where suffering- woman's prayer was heard, 

With sickening childhood's wail, 

It suits not with our tale to tell : 

Those scenes have passed away — 
Let the dim shadows of the past, 

Brood o'er that evil day. 

" Ho, Sheriff!" quoth the ardent Priest — 

" Take good man Macey too; 
The sin of this day's heresy, 

His back or purse shall rue." 

And Priest and Sheriff, both together 

Upon his threshold stood. 
When Macey, through another door, 

Sprang out into the wood. 

" Now goodwife, as thou lovest me, haste !" 

She caught his manly arm : — 
Behind, the parson urged pursuit. 

With outcry and alarm. 



68 THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

Ho ! speed the Maceys, neck or nought, — 

The river course was near : — 
The plashing on its pebbled shore 

W as music to their ear. 

A gray rock, tassel ed o'er with birch 

Above the waters hung. 
And at its base, with every wave, 

A small light wherry swung. 

A leap — they gain the boat, — and there 

The goodman wields his oar : 
" 111 luck betide them all" — he cried, — 

"The laggards upon shore." 

Down through the crashing under-wood, 

The hurley Sheriff came : — 
" Stand, goodman Macey — yield thyself; 

Yield in the King's own name." 

" Now out upon thy hangman's face !" 

Bold Macey answered then, — 
" Whip women, on the village green, 

But meddle not with wen." 

The Priest came panting to the shore, — 
His grave, cocked hat was gone : 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 69 

Behind him, like some owl's nest, hung 
His wig upon a thorn. 

" Come back— come back !" the Pai son cried, 

"The Church's curse beware." 
" Curse an' thou wilt" said Macey, " but 

Thy blessing prithee spare." 

" Vile scoffer !" cried the baffled Priest, — 

" Thou'lt yet the gallows see." 
" Who's born to be hanged, will not be drowned," 

Quoth Macey merrily ; 

" And so, sir Sheriff and Priest, good bye !" 

He bent him to his oar. 
And the small boat glided quietly 

From the twain upon the shore. 

Now in the West, the heavy clouds 

Scattered and fell asunder, 
While feebler came the rush of rain, 

And fainter growled the thunder. 

And through the broken clouds, the sun 

Looked out serene and warnf. 
Painting its holy symbol-light 

Upon the passing storm. 



70 THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

Oh, beautiful ! that rain-bow span, 
O'er dim Crane-neck was bended ; — 

One bright foot touched the Eastern hills, 
And one with Ocean blended. 

By green Pentucket's southern slope 

The small boat glided fast, — 
The watchers of " the Block-house" saw 

The strangers as they passed. 

That night a stalwart garrison 

Sat shaking in their shoes, 
To hear the dip of Indian oars, — 

The glide of birch canoes. 

They passed the bluffs of Amesbury, 

And saw the sunshine glow 
Upon the Powwow's winding stream. 

And on the hills of Po. 

The fisher-wives of Salisbury, 

(The men were all away,) 
Looked out to see the stranger oar 

Upon their waters play. 

Deer-Island's rocks and fir-trees threw 
Their sunset-shadows o'er them. 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 71 

And Newbury's spire and weathercock 
Peered o'er the pines before them. 

Around the Black Rocks, on their left, 

The marsh lay broad and green ; 
And on their right, with dwarf shrubs crowned, 

Plum Island's hills were seen. 

With skilful hand and wary eye 

The harbor-bar was crossed ; — 
A plaything of the restless wave. 

The boat on ocean tossed. 

The glory of the sunset heaven 

On land and water lay,— 
On the steep hills of Agarvon, 

On cape, and bluff, and bay. 

They passed the gray rocks of Cape Ann, 

And Gloucester harbor bar ; 
The watch-fire of the garrison 

Shone like a setting star. 

How brightly broke the morning 

On Massachusetts' Bay ! 
Blue wave, and bright green island. 

Rejoicing in the day. 



72 THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 

On passed the bark in safety- 
Round isle and headland steep- 
No tempest broke above them, 
No fog-cloud veiled the deep. 

Far round the bleak and stormy Cape 

The vent'rous Macey passed, 
And on Nantucket's naked isle, 

Drew up his boat at last. 

And how, in log-built cabin, 
They braved the rough sea-weather ; 

And there, in peace and quietness. 
Went down life's vale together ; 

How others drew around them. 

And how their fishing sped. 
Until to every wind of heaven 

Nantucket's sails were spread ; 

How pale Want alternated 

With Plenty's golden smile ; 
Behold, is it not written 

In the annals of the isle"? 

And yet that isle remaineth 
A refuge of the free, 



THE EXILES A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND. 73 

As when true-hearted Macey 
Beheld it from the sea. 

Free as the winds that winnow 

Her shrubless hills of sand — 
Free as the waves that batter 

Along her yielding land. 

Than hers, at Duty's summons, 

No loftier spirit stirs, — 
Nor falls o'er human suffering 

A readier tear than hers. 

God bless the sea-beat island !— 

And grant for evermore. 
That Charity and Freedom dwell, 

As now, upon her shore ! 



TO THE RAINBOW. 



iY B. S. JONES. 



" I do set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be a token of a 
covenant between me and the earth." — Gen. ix. 13. 

Bow of God's promise ! Pledge of Eternal love ! 

How radiant with beauty is thy form ! 
Our Father's blessing smiling from above — 

The harbinger of peace, though cradled in the storm. 
We bid thee welcome! — thou, whose joyous birth 
Was token of God's covenant with earth ; 
The seal of truth unto His people given, 
Pure as His love and beautiful as Heaven. 

And yet, what art thou but a vapory cloud. 

Resting upon the bosom of the sky, 
Where the dread tempest speaks in anger loud. 

And his fierce coursers dash, with sounds of thunder by? 
What art thou, ere the storm-birds cease their wail. 
And the rude blast, yields to the gentle gale? 
Thy beauty hath no being till the sun 
His rays of splendor upon thee has thrown. 



TO THE RAINBOW. 75 

Thus is the life of man — which is, at best, 
A shapeless cloud, wherein no beauty lives ; 

Till in reflected glory it is drest, 

And radiance from the Sun of Righteousnes receives. 

Then for its darkness there is beauty given, 

And man can see upon his spirit's heaven 

A bow of light that passeth not away. 

But in the brightness of eternal day. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 



REV, JOHN SUMMERFIELD. 

The following lines, written by the late E, M. Chanpler, were 
suggested by hearing a sermon preached by the Rev. John Sum- 
MEiiFiELD, a young and highly gifted clergyman of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. The hand of consumption was then upon him ; 
and shortly afterward his brief, but useful career, was terminated 
by death. 

" For me, I know not what it is to die, 

The bitterness of death is yet to taste ; 
Bat, oh ! how soon must fade this closing eye, 

How soon that awful Jordan must be past. 

"But though the flesh may shudder at the gloom 
That hovers darkly o'er the vale of Death, — 

May dread to pierce the secrets of the tomb. 
And cling in anguish to the parting breath ; 

" Yet, oh !" he said, and in his brightened eye 
The heavenly lustre of his spirit shone, — 

"In that dread conflict will my God be nigh ; 
I shall not pass those awful deeps alone. 

" For He, the Lord Supreme of all, hath said. 

When faint thou strugglest with the whelming tide. 



SUMMERFIELD. 77 

And when the flames around thee kindle red, 
My arm shall be thy succor and thy guide." 

'Twas SuMMERFiELD that spoke. His wasted form 
Had lost its frailty in its kindling soul ; 

The mounting blood rose o'er his temples warm, 
And health and strength an instant o'er him stole. 

He ceased ! — but that deep silence that had hung 
O'er hundreds, long remained unbroken still ; 

Still in each ear those heavenly accents rung, 
Still beat each bosom with a holier thrill. 

He ceased, and from his young, but pallid brow, 

That transitory lustre slowly fled ; 
His cheek assumed a paler, deadlier hue. 

And now he slumbers with the peaceful dead. 

Yes, low he sleeps, but oh ! in early youth, 
His soul, his talents, to his God were given. 

His latest breath he gave the cause of Truth ; 

Then closed his eyes, and slept to wake in Heaven. 

The youthful preacher sleeps, — but o'er his grave, 
His path of light shall long in memory gleam ; 

Thus sinks the sun beneath the western wave, 
And thus the clouds receive his parting beam. 



" THE EARTH IS THE LORD'S. 

Psalm xxiv. 
BY WILLIAM H. BURLEIGH. 

Lord ! the earth is thine, 

And the fulness of the sea — 
Heaps of gold and gems that shine, 
Flashing through the flashing brine, 

All belong to Thee ! 
Underneath the yeasty waves, 

Where the great sea-monsters roam, 
Thou hast hollowed wonderous caves 

For their ocean home. 
Where the huge Leviathan 

Revels in his kingly might 

Over beds of crysolite. 

Thou hast builded temples fairer — 

Thou hast fashioned grottoes rarer 
Than the proudest works of man. 

There uncounted treasures lie 

Hidden deep from human eye ; 



THE EARTH IS THE LORd's. 79 

Lustrous gems, whose radiant gleams 

Sparkle aye in starry beams. 
All the wonders of the sea, 

All the gems that flash and shine 

Underneath the ocean-brine, 
God ! belong to Thee ! 

Lord ! the earth is thine, 

And the fulness of the earth ! 
Thou, in sovereignty of will, 
From thine everlasting hill, 
Called the light — the voice Divine 

O'er the formless void went forth, 

And the darkness fled ! 
From the mass chaotic hurled 
Rose to life this wond'rous world — 
Suns and stars, with constant force 
And undeviating course 

In their orbits sped. 
Tree and plant and opening flower. 

In their virgin beauty drest, 
Heard the mandate, and Thy power 

Instantly confessed. 
All by Thee were called to birth. 
Sole Proprietor of Earth ! 

Thine is every living thing — 

From the sluggish worm that crawls 
O'er the dungeon's slimy walls. 



80 THE EARTH IS THE LORD's. 

To the forest's tameless king — 
And the bird, whose rapid wing 
Flashes in the glad sunshine, 
As it soars aloft, to fling 
Out upon the gales of spring 
Gifts of song that seem divine — 
Insect, beast, and bird are Thine ! 
Formed by Thy creating hand, 
Heedful all to Thy command. 

Hills arrayed in living green. 

Where the sunshine loves to linger, 
And the wind with wizzard finger 
Trifles with the springing grass — 
Waters singing as they pass, 
(Pauses none to intervene,) 
With a low and pleasant tune, 
All the leafy time of June — 
Valleys with the sunshine dancing 
On their verdant slopes, and glancing 
Downward to their deepest beds — 

Forests, regally uplifting 
To the clouds their crowned heads — 
And the undulating plain 
Swaying with the swaying grain — 
These are Thine — and Thine the sky, 
With its gorgeous pageantry, 
And its shadows ever shifting. 



THE EARTH IS THE LORD's. 81 

Wait they all upon Thy word, 
Nature's Universal Lord ! 

Then to Thee, of life the Giver, 
Praises be ascribed for ever ! 
Thine be thanks and adoration, 
Thine be songs of exultation : 

Thanks and songs for ever given — 
Every voice in concert sounding, 
Every heart with rapture bounding, 
All harmonious anthems blending. 
Louder swelling as ascending — 

Tribute of the earth to Heaven ! 

Pittsburg, Pa. 



WALLENSTIEN. 

Those who have read Schiller's tragedy of the Death of Wallen- 
stlen, will rememher the finely descriptive opening of the Fifth 
Act, when the Duke has received tidings of the engagement which 
was fatal to his friend, the young Count Piccolomini. 

" I feel what I have lost 
In him. The bloom is vanished from my lift*, 
For O ! he stood beside me like my youth; 
Transformed for me the real to a dream, 
Clothing the palpable and the familiar 
With golden exhalations of the dawn. 
Whatever fortunes wait my future toils, 
The beautiful is vanished and returns not." 

Coleridge's Translation. 

Ay, droop in deepest woe, proud chief, 

The world is henceforth dim, 
For the fresh glory of thy life, 

Hath passed away with him. 
Whate'er was noblest in thy soul, 

In his burned clear and free, 
Unforfeited the cloudless peace 

For ever lost to thee. 

He was the friend whose love and trust 

Thy purer nature gained, 
In days of honor firm and high. 

And of fair fame unstained ; 



WALLENSTIEN. 83 

Thy lofty virtues godlike seemed 

To that young hero's sight, 
Supreme in whose unsullied heart 

Was throned the true and right. 

As little had his spirit dreamed 

The polar star could stray, 
As thou commit the unhallowed deed 

That severed wide your way : 
Unmoved by each accusing voice 

He still believed thee true ; 
The bond of friendship knit by faith. 

Thyself could scarce undo. 

Oh ! fearful was the struggle 

When thou, the Mighty fell. 
To loose the clinging ties of years 

To break the cherished spell : 
It changed his soul — suspicion breathed 

Upon its blossoms white, 
And but one holy flower escaped 

Untainted by the blight. 

That holy flower, thy daughter's love J 

Pure as in Heaven's own air, 
The false and evil things of earth 

Had no abiding there, 
a* 



84 WALLENSTIEN. 

Strong in the love that conquers deatli, 

The trust of sinless youth, 
Her spirit seemed an effluence bright, 

From the high source of Truth. 

Hers was the angel voice that stilled 

The conflict in his breast, 
When feelings mighty o'er the heart 

Against his purpose pressed. 
The mists of human passion rose 

Before his wavering sight. 
Her word dispersed those wildering clouds 

From the clear path of right. 

'Twas glorious, the strength of soul 

That bore that trial dread, 
The victory in which every hope 

Of earthly joy was dead : — 
And far more blest the firmly true 

To duty's sternest voice, 
Than thou, with all the stormy joy 

Of wild ambition's choice. 

Thy dream of Fate has lured thee on 

In error's path to tread. 
And darkly now the shades of doom 

Are gathering round thy head ; 



WALLENSTIEX. 85 



The friends on whom ihy hope relied 
Will fail thee one by one, 

And in neglect, despair, and death 
Shall sink thy glory's sun. 

Wilmin'Tloii, Dtl. 



EGYPT. 

[A Fragment from an unpublished Poem.] 

Egypt ! thou dark, mysterious scroll, 
Which man can read not — nor unroll — 
Who guards the seal upon thee set ! 
Is Osiris thy watcher yet ? 
Has Iris round about thee flung 

The sacred veil that shrouded her? 
By guile and superstition hung, 

Between the shrine and worshipper, 
That mortal eyes might never see 
The glory of their Deity T 
Is the pure Ibis hovering round 
Above thy consecrated ground 1 
Has she outspread her spotless wing, 
Where Egypt's kings are slumbering ? 
That none may enter in to trace 
The symbols of their resting place ? 

The hallowed bird forgets, in sleep. 
Her watch about thy dead to keep ! 
Thy cherished gods — thy people's trust — 
Have bowed their miffhtiness to dust! 



EGYPT. 

Shrine — priestess — oracle, and all, 
Are held in death's cold silent thrall ! 
Time's crushing, levelling, decree! 
Why was it written not on thee ? 
When all thy children testify, 

Of the avenger's might ; 
Land of the Nile ! oh ! tell us why, 

Thou hast but mocked his flight ] 
While nations, whose most brilliant rays 
Were borrowed from the mighty blaze 
Of Learning and of Science hid. 
Where towers the lofty pyramid, — 
Poetic Greece — and glorious Rome — 
Whose very names with healing come, 
Unto the spirit that can feel. 
The triumphs grace and art reveal : 
To whom such genius was lent, 

As made their classic ground, 
One intellectual monument ! 

Where shall they now be found ! 
Their ancient voices none can hear I 

Save, a last, broken, dying note, 
Which on the pilgrim-poet's ear, 

May from their splendid ruins float, 
Through tracery and outline dim, 
Of perished beauty telling him — 



EGYPT. 

In something of its olden tone, 
Still speaking from the Parthenon — 
And sending out its fainter calls 
From the profaned Forum's walls ! 

All — all — who drew a life from thee, 
Have long fulfilled their destiny ! 
Empire — and monarchy — and crown — 
Have trembled — tottered — bowed down ; 
Whilst thou art on thy shrouded throne 
Still uninterpreted — unknown ! 

Dark source and mother of our past ! 

The seal upon thee set, 
The veil before thy features cast 

May not be lifted yet ! 
The Hand that suffered it to fall— 
I am! The Holiest of all, 
" Who was — and is — and is to be," 
His arm of strength is guarding thee. 
Oh ! none may question that His will, 
Bade Egypt's mighty pulse be still ; 
That He hath wrapped in mystic might 
Her wealth of knowledge and of light. 
The blazing torch her genius lit, 
The God of gods hath curtained it ! 



EGYPT. 

For whom shall the uprising be, 

Of Egypt's slumbering power ? 
Who shall the unveiled glory see 

Of her awaking hour"? 
Shall her embalmed and crumbling dead 
Be vivified — aroused to tread 
The vast and " myriad column'd" plain, 
Which age hath battled with in vain, 
Where Thebes' colossal relics, still, 
The world with awe and wonder fill 1 
Shall her dark, wily priesthood rise 1 
Developing those mysteries 
Which on their blind believers fell, 
Like the deep paralysing spell, 
Of fate-dispensing Camael 1 
No ! soulless dust ! for ever sleep ! 
And in the grave's unyielding keep, 
Hold fast the unrevealed sign 
Which mark you of her symbol'd line ! 

Egypt hath children ! poor — despised — 
Scorned scions from their ancient tree. 

Whose i/et to be annointed eyes 

Her hidden lights perchance may see ! 

Their limbs — their souls — are fettered now ! 

But not for ever will they bow 



90 EGYPT. 

In mental death, and moral night ; 

Crushed by an arm of human might. 

For, as of old, the bondman's cry 

Of undeserved agony 

Has not been poured forth unheard ; 

Justice the soul of man hath stirred I 

And tens of thousands are awake, 

For hearth and home and country's sake. 

To burst the fetters clasped so long ! — 

To stay the avalanche of wrong, 

Which pride and power hath madly sent, 

From their unconquered battlement. 

To mortal mind it is not given 
To read the auguries of Heaven, 
Yet on Antiquity's worn book 
Without presumption we may look, 
If seeking to extract from thence 
Tokens of God's benevolence. 
And it may be that into these, — 

Outcasts from every sacred tie, 
From all those holy sympathies, 

Which link the human family — 
To these, will yet be yielded up 
The longed for, but unemptied cup 
Of Egypt's knowledge ! a deep spring. 
Reserved for their enliorhteninfT. 



EGYPT. 91 



Not all the splendid triumphs, won, 
By genius, and Champollion, 
B}'- Corry and Chateaubriand — 
Belzoni, and the magi band. 
Who knelt at Egypt's covered shrines, 
And toiled in her unwasted mines. 
With that intense and burning zeal 
Which only intellect can feel. 
When dreaming that its mighty hold 

Guardeth the undiscovered spring, 
That at its bidding will unfold 

Each hidden and mysterious thing, — 
However found the buried track 

W'hich over Time's uncertain waste, 
Alone can lead the searcher back, 

Of learning's primal founts to taste ! 
Research hath only seemed to shed 
Light on the paths she could not thread. 
Unfound — untravelled yet, they lie 
In sepulchred obscurity ! 
And while man's spirit, ever flinging 

Its own creations o'er the past — 
Unto each faded fragment clinging, 

W^hich age hath from its keeping cast- 
As though such relic were a ray 
By which to read the passed away — 



92 EGYPT. 

'Tis good for us to pause and linger, 

Over the traces of God's finger : 

For earth bears many a record still, 

That He hath spoken to fulfil. 

'Tis good for man, who fain would bring 

The secrets of a shrouded age 
Within his finite questioning — 

To gather from a holier page, 
Than mind alone, could e'er devise. 
That true response— those true replies — 
Which fall on every listening ear 
Meekly, devoutly bent to hear 
The silent and convicting tone 
Breathed by " God's oracles" alone! 

And, oh ! He liveth still on high — 

Whose holy uncreated wing — 
An ever glorious canopy — 

Is earth's eternal covering. 
And unto us He still hath sent, 
Apostle, priest, and instrument. 
Equipped with buckler and with shield, 

With lance, and sword, and spear. 
Which human strength could never vv^ield — 

Neither unaided wear — 
Called from the little things of life. 
Chosen, anointed, for His strife 



EGYPT 93 

With every hue and shade of wrong — 

However broad and sure and deep 
Its corner stone — however strong 

Is reared its dark unholy keep — 
To shake that mighty pedestal. 

On which its columns stand ; 
That sin's dark shadows cease to fall, 

The mantle of a land, 
Whose glory has "become her shame" — 

Whose cradle halo circles now 
A sullied and unhonored name, 

A darkened and a guilty brow ! 

But while our Father sendeth these 
Out on his own high embassies, 
Claiming but their obedience. 

And giving to the single eye. 
Glimpses of faith's sure recompense — 

The victor crown that hangs on high, 
Where blooms the undecaying tree 
Of life and immortality — 
Let us remember, He hath said, 

" Vengeance is mine !" and unto whom. 
Upon whose proud uplifted head, 

" I will," the fires of Heaven shall come ! 
He trusteth to no mortal hand, 
His terrible, consuming brand ! 



94 EGYPT. 

The just and retributive meed, 
Of evil thought and evil deed. 
Oh ! not to one weak erring brother. 
Is lent the shaft to pierce another ! 
Power to ordain the tyrant's fate, 

Or in his own chains bind 
The oppressor, who dares desecrate 

His fellow and his kind ! 

Our Heavenly Father knoweth how 
The mind of man will blindly bow 
Before the shrine, though cold and dead,- 
His father's worship hallowed ! 
How he will feed the wasting fires 
Kindled and cherished by his sires ; 
And reverence their olden creeds. 
And consecrate their darkest deeds — 
And how this feeling ever draws 
Its life from nature's holy laws : 
And thus because He knoweth well. 
The human heart — the human spell — 
The thunders of His spirit-word. 

Its rumblings loud and deep, 
In mercy tones are always heard ; 

Summoning men from sleep, 
Before the crater of His wrath 

Sends out its lava-tide, 



EGYPT. 95 

To leave no record of the path 

Of tyranny and pride ! 
His ministers are every where ! 

And silent heralds are abroad, 
That, to the heart, for ever bear 

Sweet messages of love from God ! 
And over thee — my native land ! 
He holds outstretched His mighty hand, 
And bends His mercy-beaming eye 
So patiently and steadily — 
That if thy children ever lift 

Their glances from the earth below, 
His holy and illuming gift 

Of Living Light, must surely flow 
Into the temples, dark and dim. 
Whose watchers have forgotten Him ! 
Where He hath knocked ; and waiteth yet, 

An entrance to renew. 
Until His holy locks are wet. 

As with the morning dew ! 

Spirits there are, whose strength will burst 

Nobly, through error's fetterings : 
Who cannot slake their burning thirst, 

At her unsatisfying springs ! 
Gifted of Heaven ! these are they, 
Who fearlessly will tear away. 



96 EGYPT. 

The misty veil, which time and age, 
Have woven o'er Truth's simple page— 
Who freely, boldly, fling abroad. 
The light which emanates from God. 
On these — the soul-confining chain 
Of other times, were cast in vain, 
The spirifs life cannot be bound : 
Like the green withes Delilah wound 
On him of Gaza — when she sold 
His secret for Philistine gold — ■ 
Fetters for them, would only be 
An unavailing mockery — 
At the unconquered sleeper's waking. 
Like threads of tow, asunder breaking. 



These are the moral pioneers. 

Who careless of the world's stern frown, 
The evils, sanctified by years — 

Are gloriously treading down ! 
Who, to anoint a nation's eyes. 
Would be themselves the sacrifice! 
Grasping as Sampson did of old, 

The pillar and foundation-stone 
Which Error's towering stronghold, 

Her loftiest temple resteth on — 
Willing to perish in its fall, 
If martyrdom could disenthral 



Their country from the heavy woes 
Her own iniquities impose. 

If there is greatness — if there be 

One sight we love to look upon— 
'Tis unredeemed humanity 

With robes of self-denial on, 
Meekly partaking of the cup, 
The world so brimmingly fills up 
With calumny and scorn for them 
Who touch, in faith. Truth's holy hem ! 
And whether its anointing lead 
To upward path, and lofty deed, 
Which stirreth up the kindled soul, 

Making its pulses bound and thrill. 
With ecstacies beyond control, 

That beacon-lights are kindled still, 
To shine above us, pure and clear. 
Suns of our moral atmosphere, — 
Creating an enthusiast yearning 
To reach the lofty place of burning — 
Whether in prayerfully bearing 
An unseen cross — unnoticed sharing 
The trial and the suffering 
That round life's lowly places cling, — 
The mantle of compassion spreading 

Over the sinful and the weak, 



98 EGYPT. 

And earth's unholy by-path's treading 

The blinded lingerers there to seek, — 
Teaching the lost ones how to call 
On Him who purchased life for all — 
Whether to minister beside 

The spirit wounded, crushed, and torn, 
That fain from every eye would hide 
The shaft in untold anguish worn, 
And giving it to feel how much 
Of healing cometh with a touch, 
In gentleness and kindness laid 
On the deep wounds by harshness made;- 
Wherever led — however guided — 
By whom insulted or derided, — 
To their high trusts obedient, — 
Such spirits are as angels sent 
To move those waters, still and deep. 

Which play not with our upper waves, 
But sacredly and silent sleep, 

Within the hearts untrodden caves ! 
Ye holy ones ! whose hands uphold 
The promises which God has given 
To every flock and every fold, 

And every people under Heaven, 
Whose very burning purifies 

The earth-mist of this atmosphere. 
Which e'en round good men must arise. 

So long as they are dwellers here— 



EGYPT. 

Ye mig-hty men ! whose goings leave 

Your giant foot-prints on the age, 
Forgetting self — who live to weave 

For coming time, a heritage 
Of active virtue — pr6scient thought — 
With Truth's pure imagery inwrought 
So beautifully, as will shame 
The richest gifts that ever came 
To us, — by Time's chance surges cast, 
From the dark waters of the past — 
Ye dwellers upon every spot, 
Which Slavery hath stained not, — 
Watchers on every holy hill, 
Where Liberty abideth still, 
Mingle your voices ! lift them up 

To One who loveth human prayer. 
That retribution's bitter cup 

A guilty nation he will spare ! 
Remembering the while to press 

The truths ye solemnly maintain, 
With such persuasive earnestness. 

As shall not utter them in vain — 
Your morning measure to prolong, 

That a rich triumph-swell may be 
The evening echo to the song, 

That " All men are created free." 



100 EGYPT. 

Lo ! Egypt from her sleep awaking ! 

Her deep mysterious thraldom breaking !- 

The stone that for long ages lay 

On her tomb's mouth is rolled away ! 

And Egypt riseth from the dead, 

Her slumber's aim accomplished, 

Most gloriously clothed upon. 

With raiments of such dazzling light ; 
A world is turning to the sun. 

That breaketh over realms of night ! 
And with the pure thanksgiving strain 

Her rescued ones are p ouring out, 
From every venerable fane 

Goes up her resurrection shout ! 
From obelisk, and tower, and dome, 
That life-like voice doth seem to come, 
From temple, arch, and colonade. 
Where some restoring hand hath played ; 
From every thing — above, around, — 
Is pealing that unwonted sound ! 
And Memnon to the morning sun 

Its music richly swelling, 
Is of a new existence won 

Melodiously telling ; 
How the dark robes which Egypt wore, 
The mystic symbols that she bore, 



EGYPT. 101 



The secrets of her world-owned sway, 
Are shined on by the light of Day, 
A.nd how she holdeth up the scroll, 

Whose characters in wisdom sealed, 
The unbound captive shall unroll ! 

Destined by him to be revealed. 

PhilaJelphia, Eleventh mo. 1839. 



^ei* jlerbenbe ^da'oe. 

SOS. 2. 3. ^ 1 1> c r I e n. 

£)ag ^I'aufcnOctt t)o5 grctfcn ^rcunbg umrtc()cn 
^ic 58vut)crfc(ai?cn, <Sd)mcr^ nmf)(t bic ®e[icl)tct:, 

Bic gramgefurd)tcn, ba t)cn ^rcunb fie fcf)cn 
^pcimfcf)ccn ^u t)cm S*^nfclt^; plogUct) fpncl)t cr : 

„X)k ^vaft cntfriel)t, e^ (ofcn ficb t)ie 93Qnt)e, 
2)ie meine (Sccle an ta^ -^Infci) gefcfj'ctt, 

3c^ fc^rc ^cim ^u mcinct Sater Sanbc 
S)crt ncu ^u tc6cn, [ctc^ 3n?ang^ entfcffdt. 

Sebt tot>U, ^\-)X- Sriibet: ! trcdfnet ^-ure S^rancn^ 
Set) jii^lc gUicHicf) in t)cm fc{)oncn Sccfc, 

9}?lt bicfcm Cclbc mcincr <Sccic <Sc^ncn 
*;Scr[d)an:t au ruifl'cn in t)cr (Srtc ©c^ccfc. 

Sa^t @ud) nicl)t tritgcn i?cn t)cm -2Bort' bcr SBci^cn 
33(eibt fc]l: in euvcr SScitev bcfrem ©(aubcn, 

(£ic nioct)tcn cjcrn @uct) biefcn aud) cntrci^cn 
Urn fo t)cc ©liter 2e|te^ 6uc^ 5U rauOen. 

SLBc^t |precl)en fic t>om ©ctt t)cr veinen Sicbe, 
Urn S-ud) aum ilreusc^ftammc binsuteden; 

©cd) !unt)et Oei ber ^citfd)e ^cipcm «pieOc, 
3t)t: 2{ugc SOlitleit) nic^t, nein nur -^r;of)lcden ! 

SSer Eann ben ^fei(, ber i^n ticrtvunbet, tie6en ? 

.papt fie auf cwig, @ure fatten ^IJcijiet ! 
©enug, bap unfrc l^eikc ©cla^cn Micbcn, 

g^vci, hi$ aum Sobc, feicn unfrc ©ciftcr !" 

Unb tt)ic ta^ tefetc SBort cr au^9cfprcd)cn, 
Scnft fid) fein greife^ .^aupt ^um Sufen nicba*, 

©ic le|te ilraft bc^ ^orperg ift 0cbrod)cn; — 
^ic ©celc ift bci i()rcm ^c^opjcr ivicbcv. 



STANZAS, 

TO THE ABOLITIONISTS OF AMERICA. 
BT WM. H. BURLEIGH. 

Toil and pray ! 
Groweth flesh and spirit faint? 
Think of her who pours her plaint 

All the day — 
Her — the wretched negro wife, 
Robbed of all that sweetens life — 
Her — who weeps in anguish wild 
For the husband and the child 

Torn away ! — 

Nature's ties, 
Binding heart with kindred heart, 
Rent remorselessly apart — 

Tears and sighs, 
Shrieks and prayers unheeded given, 
Calling out from earth to heaven — 
All that speaks the slave's distress — 
All that in his cap doth press 

Agonies — 



104 STANZAS. 

Wo and blight, 
Broken heart and palsied mind, 
Reason crushed and conscience blind, 

Darkest night 
Shutting from the spirit's eye 
Light and glory from on high — 
Think of these — ^.nd falternot ! 
Toil — until the slave is brought 

Up to light I 

What though Hate 
Darkly scowls upon your path ? 
Fear not ye the tyrant's wrath — 

Hope, and wait — 
For though long the strife endure 
Freedom's triumph shall be sure — 
Toil in faith, for God hath spoken, 
Every fetter shall be broken. 

Soon or late. 

Not in vain 
Hath been heard your voice of warning- 

Lo ! a better day is dawning. 

And again 
Shall be heard, from sea to sea, 
Loudest songs of jubilee 
Bursting from a franchised nation, 
As it leaps in exultation 

From the chain ! 

Pittsburg, Pa. 



GRANADA. 

" Que cristianos, con braveza, 
Ya DOS han tormado Alhama." 

Ay de mi Alhama! 

Moorish Ballad. 

Whose is that army so proudly advancing 1 
Whose are those steeds on the flinty rock prancing ? 
Who bears the banner — the mace of command ? 
It is Castile's proud Sovereign — the wise Ferdinand ! 

And why to Granada, comes Leon's proud king 1 
Round the splendid Alhambra, his warriors to fling ? 
Where the Moor once sent tribute, now come words of war 
" Our mint coineth nought, but the bright scimetar." 

And therefore this Christian^ this Catholic king, 
His bravest and best to Granada doth bring. 
For holy the hatred king Ferdinand bore. 
To the cross-spurning Moslem— the Infidel Moor. 

And onward they come with a towering crest, 
In their warrior armor, with lances in rest ; 
And so firm is their phalanx, so perfect their order, 
That lost is the turban that stirs o'er the border. 



106 GRANADA. 

" In thy fortress of rock, tremble, Ali-Atar — 
For yon army of Christians brings iron-armed war, 
And thou, Aben Hassen — stand up to the shock, — 
Thy land they will plunder, thy faith they will mock." 

" Bow ! Mussulman bow ! for 'tis Alla's dread will, 
That the sceptre depart from the young Boabdil ; 
Our strength is departed, — our glory is gone, 
And the scoffer of Alia shall sit on our throne. " 

Thus spake the Moor-prophet, the santon and seer, — 

" A woe that will visit the palace is near. 

The orange and myrtle, may bloom in thy halls, 

And the Nightingale's song still resound in thy walls !" 

" But strangers will gaze on thy gilt fretted dome, 
Through the halls of pure marble the Christians will roam ; 
Our warriors may gather, their symbol to save. 
But in place of the Crescent the Cross will yet wave !" 

And thy beautiful ones, in their silken repose. 
From turret and lattice gazed down upon foes ! — 
Saw glittering battallions of Christians advance, 
And sunshine gleam brightly on spear and on lance ; 

Saw the banner of England — a holy crusade, 
Lend the proud Isabella its bravest to aid ; 



GRANADA. 107 

Saw the ensig-n of France, and the pennon of Spain, 
The Lion of Austria — the turbulent Dane ! 

And weeping, and wailing, and sighing were theirs, — 
In their splendid Alhambra were sorrow and tears ; 
Their strength has departed — their glory has gone, 
And the " Most Christian Ferdinand " sits on their throne ! 

Pliiladelphia, Pa. 



THE WORLD'S CONVENTION 

OF THE FRIENDS OF EMANCIPATION, TO BE HELD IN 
LONDON IN 1840. 

Br JOHN G. WHITTIEIl. 

Yes, let them gather !— Summon forth 
The pledged philanthropy of Earth, 
From every land, whose hills have heard 
The bugle-blast of Freedom waking ; 
Or shrieking of her symbol-bird 

From out his cloudy eyrie breaking ; 
Where Justice hath one worshipper, 
Or Truth one altar built to her ; 
Where'er a human eye is weeping 

O'er wrongs which Earth's sad children know, 
Where'er a single heart is keeping 

Its prayerful watch with human woe : 
Thence let them come, and greet each other, 
And know in each, a friend and brother ! 

Yes, let them come ! from each green vale 

Where England's old baronial halls 

Still bear upon their storied walls 
The grim crusader's rusted mail, 



THE WORLD S CONVENTION. 

Batter'd by Paynim spear and brand 
On Malta's rock or vSyria's sand ! 
And mouldering- pennon-staves once set 

Within the soil of Palestine, 
By Jordan and Gennesaret ; 

Or, borne with England's battle line. 
O'er Acre's shattered turrets stooping-, 
Or, 'midst the camp their banners drooping, 

With dews from hallowed Hermon wet. 
A holier summons now is given 

Than that gray hermit's voice of old, 
Which unto all the winds of heaven 

The banners of the Cross unrolled ! 
Not for the long deserted shrine. 

Not for the dull unconscious sod, 
Which tells not by one ling-ering sign 

That there the Hope of Israel trod ; 
But for that truth, for which alone 

In pilgrim eyes are sanctified 
The garden moss, the mountain stone. 
Whereon His holy sandals pressed — 
The fountain which His lip hath blessed — 
What'er hath touched His garment's hem 
At Bethany or Bethlehem, 

Or Jordan's river side. 
For FREEDOM, in the name of Him 

Who came to raise Earth's drooping poor, 



110 THE world's convention. 

To break the chain from every limb — 

The bolt from every prison door ! 
For these, o'er all the earth hath passed 
An ever deepening trumpet blast, 
As if an Angel's breath had lent 
Its vigor to the instrument. 

And Wales, from Snowdon's mountain wall, 
Shall startle at that thrilling call ; 

As if she heard her Bards again ; 
And Erin's " harp on Tara's wall" 

Give out its ancient strain. 
Mirthful and sweet, yet sad withal — 

The melody which Erin loves, 
When o'er that harp, mid bursts of gladness 
And slogan cries and lyke-wake sadness, 

The hand of her O'Connell moves: 
Scotland, from lake and tarn and rill, 
And mountain hold, and heathery hill. 

Shall catch and echo back the note, 
As if she heard upon her air 
Once more her Cameronian's prayer 

And song of freedom float. 
And cheering echoes shall reply 
From each remote dependency, 
Where Britain's mighty sway is known, 
In tropic sea or frozen zone ; 



THE world's convention. Ill 

Where'er her sunset flag is furling, 
Or morning gun-fire's smoke is curling ; 
From Indian Bengal's groves of palm 
And rosy fields and gales of balm, 
"Where Eastern pomp and power are rolled 
Through regal Ava's gates of gold ; 
And from the lakes and ancient woods 
And dim Canadian solitudes, 
Whence, sternly from her rocky throne, 
Queen of the North, Quebec looks down ; 
And from those bright and ransomed Isles 
Where all unwonted Freedom smiles, 
And the dark laborer still retains 
The scar of slavery's broken chains ! 

From the hoar Alps, which sentinel 
The gateways of the land of Tell, 
Where morning's keen and earliest glance 

On Jura's icy top is thrown ; 
And from the olive bowers of France 

And vine groves garlanding the Rhone, — 
"Friends of the Blacks," as true and tried 
As those who stood by Oge's side — 
Brissot and eloquent Gregoire — 
When with free lip and heart of fire 
The Haytien told his country's wrong, 
Shall gather at that summons strong 
Broglie, Passy, and him, whose song 



112 THE world's convention. 

Breathed over Syria's holy sod, 

And in the paths which Jesus trod, 

And murmured midst the hills which hem 

Crownless and sad Jerusalem, 

Hath echoes whereso'er the tone 

Of Israel's prophet-lyre is known. 

Still let them come — from Quito's walls, 

And from the Oronoco's tide — 
From Lima's Inca-haunted halls — 
From Santa Fe and Yucatan, — 

Chiefs who by swart Guerrero's side 
Proclaimed the deathless rights of man, 

Broke every bond and fetter off. 

And hailed in every sable serf 
A free and brother Mexican ! 
Chiefs who across the Andes' chain 

Have followed Freedom's flowing pennon, 
And seen on Junin's fearful plain, 
Glare o'er the broken ranks of Spain, 

The fire-burst of Bolivar's cannon ! 
And Hayti, from her mountain land 

Shall send the sons of those who hurled 
Defiance from her blazing strand — 
The war-gage from her Petion's hand. 

Alone against a hostile world. 



THE WORLD S CONVENTION. 

Nor all unmindful, thou, the while 
Land of the dark and mystic Nile ! — 

Thy Moslem mercy yet may shame - 

All tyrants of a Christian name, — 
When in the shade of Gezeh's pile, 
Or, where from Abyssinian hills 
El Gerek's upper fountain fills, 
Or where from mountains of the Moon 
El Abiad bears his watery boon. 
Where'er thy lotus blossoms swim 

Within their ancient hallowed waters, 
Where'er is heard thy Prophet's hymn 

Or song of Nubia's sable daughters, — 
The curse of Slavery and the crime, 
Thy bequest from remotest time, 
At thy dark Mehemet's decree 
For evermore shall pass from thee ; 

And chains forsake each captive's limb 
Of all those tribes, whose hills around 
Have echoed back the cymbal sound 

And victor horn of Ibrahim. 

And thou whose glory and whose crime 
To earth's remotest bound and clime. 
In mingled tones of awe and scorn 
The echoes of a world have borne, 



IH THE AVOKLU's CONVENTIONc 

My country ! glorious at thy birth, 
A day-star flashing brightly forth — 

The herald-sign of Freedom's dawn ! 
Oh! who could dream who saw thee then, 

And watched thy rising from afar, 
That vapors from oppression's fen 

Would feed thy upward tending star. 
Or, that Earth's tyrant powers, which heard, 

Awe-struck, the shout which hailed thy dawning 
VVould rise so soon, prince, peer and king. 
To mock thee with their welcoming. 
Like Hades when her thrones were stirred 

To greet the down-cast Star of Morning ! 
" Aha ! and art thou fallen thus ? 
Art THOU become as one of us ?" 

Land of my fathers !— there will stand, 
Amidst that world-assembled band. 
Those owning thy maternal claim 
Unweakened by thy crime and shame, — 
The sad reprovers of thy wrong — 
The children thou hast spurned so long. 
Still with affection's fondest yearning 
To their unnatural mother turning. 
No traitors they '.—but tried and leal. 
Whose own is but thy general weal, 
Still blending with the patriot's zeal 



115 



The Christian's love for human kind, 
To caste and climate unconfined. 

A holy gathering! — peaceful all — 
No threat of war — no savage call 

For vengeance on an erring brother ; 
But in their stead the God-like plan 
To teach the brotherhood of man 

To love and reverence one another, 
As sharers of a common blood — 
The children of a common God ! — 
Yet, even at its lightest word, 
Shall Slavery's darkest depths be stirred: 
Spain watching from her Moro's keep 
Her slave-ships traversing the deep, 
And Rio, in her strength and pride, 
Lifting, along her mountain side, 
Her snowy battlements and towers — 
Her lemon groves and tropic bowers, 
With bitter hate and sullen fear 
Its freedom-giving voice shall hear ; 
And where my country's flag is flowing. 
On breezes from Mount Vernon blowing 

Above the Nation's council Halls, 
Where Freedom's praise is loud and long, 

While close beneath the outward walls,- 



116 THE world's CONVENTION. 

The driver plies his reeking thong — 
The hammer of the man -thief falls. 

O'er hypocritic cheek and brow 

The crimson flush of shame shall glow : 

And all who for their native land 

Are pledging life and heart and hand — 
Worn watchers o'er her changing weal, 

Who for her tarnished honor feel — 
Through cottage door and council-hall 
Shall thunder an awakening call. 
The pen along its page shall burn 
With all-intolerable scorn — 
And eloquent rebuke shall go 

On all the winds that Southward blow ; 
From priestly lips, now sealed and dumb, 
Warning and dread appeal shall come, 
Like those which Israel heard from him 
The Prophet of the Cherubim, 
Or those which sad Esaias hurled 
Against a sin-accursed world ; 
Its wizard-leaves the Press shall fling 
Unceasing from its iron wing, 
With characters inscribed thereon, 

As fearful in the despot's hall 
As to the pomp of Babylon 

The fire-sign on the palace-wall ! 



THE WORLD S CONVENTION. 117 

And, from her dark iniquities, 
Methinks I see my country rise : 
Not challenging the nations round 

To note her tardy justice done — 
Her captives from their chains unbound, 

Her prisons opening to the sun. 
But tearfully her arms extending 
Over the poor and unoffending; 

Her regal Emblem, now no longer 
A bird of prey, with talons reeking. 
Above the dying captive shrieking. 
But, spreading out her ample wing — 
A broad, impartial covering — 

The weaker sheltered by the stronger !^ — 
Oh, then to Faith's anointed eyes 

The promised token shall be given ; 
And on a nation's sacrifice, 
Atoning for the sin of years, 
And wet with penitential tears — 

The fire shall fall from Heaven! 

Pliiladelphia, Pa. 



SONNET TO THE NORTH STAR. 

Methinks thou lookest with a kindlier eye 

Than do thy radiant sisters, on the path 

Of the tired fugitive, who flies the wrath 
Of the oppressor, while serene on high 
Thou smilest in thy beauty. Blessed Star ! 

Thou lone "incendiary" of the Northern sky ! 

Unquenchable beacon-fire of Liberty ! 
Shining in love, from thy blue home afar — 
To thee, in hope, the toil-worn bondman turns 

Through the long night, his sleepless eye, and presses 

Pantingly on through tangled wildernesses 
To Freedom's land, for which his spirit yearns ! 
Shine on thou bright " fanatic !" for the arm 
Of hangmen " patriarchs" cannot do thee harm ! 

Vittsbui-g, Pa. _^ 



iwi*KlS*r5>- ,:^y-^ ')4^^: 



5*v**" 



mi^^:''^)\^^ • '^ ' ' '';^^- r '^rj^ ^^fw^^^^^w. 



