
\7 



\ 



V 





V 



i. \ 





^•6 



OP THE 



MASSACHUSETTS FEMALE EMANCIPATION SOCIETY. 



4 



31 r <r a m i) 1 1 . 

Believing slavery to be a direct violation of the laws of God, and productive of a vast amount of misery 
and crime ; and convinced that its abolition can only be effected by an acknowledgment of the justice and 
necessity of immediate emancipation ; we hereby agree to form ourselves into a Society, to aid and assist in 
this righteous cause as far as lies within our power. 

CONSTITUTION. 

Article 1. This Society shall be called the Massachusetts Female Emancipation Society. 

Article 2. Any lady may become a member of this Society by subscribing to the sentiments con- 
tained in the preamble, and paying fifty cents annually. Any lady may become a life member by the pay- 
ment of five dollars. 

Article 3. Its funds shall be appropriated to the dissemination of truth on the subject of slavery, and 
the improvement of the moral and intellectual character of the colored population. The opinions of the 
members, as to the best means of effecting these objects, will be freely given at the meetings. Questions 
relative to the business of the Society, may be decided by a vote of a majority of the members present, or 
such decisions may be transferred by them to the Board of Officers. 

Article 4. The government of this Society shall be vested in a Board of Officers, consisting of a 
President, whose duty it will be to preside at all meetings of the Society. A first and second Vice Presi- 
dent, to supply the place of the former, in case of absence. A Domestic Corresponding Secretary, who 
shall keep all communications addressed to the Society, and manage all the correspondence with any other 
bodies or individuals within the United States, according to tiie direction of the Society or officers. A 
Secretary of Foreign Correspondence, who shall manage all correspondence with foreign Societies, or indi- 
viduals, according to the direction of the Society or officers. A Recording Secretary, who is to keep a 
record of transactions, and give notice of the time and place for all meetings of the Society. A Treasurer, 
authorized to receive subscriptions, donations, Stc, and to pay the bills of the Society : and eight Counsel- 
lors, to advise and assist the other officers. In case of the absence of the President and Vice-Presidents, a 
presiding officer may be chosen by vote. Two-thirds of the officers shall constitute a quorum. 

Article 5. An annual meeting of the Society, shall be held on the second Wednesday of April ; at 
which meeting the reports of the Secietary and Treasurer shall be read, and officers chosen for the ensuin» 
year. 




Article 6. Quarterly meetings of the Society shall be held on the second Wednesdays of January, 
April, July, and October, at which time the Secretary shall report the proceedings of the Society, and such 
other business shall be transacted as circumstances may render necessary. If, for any unforeseen reasons, 
other meetings become desirable, the President is authorized to summon the other ofBcers, and they may give 
notice to the members of the Society. 

Article 7. If any vacancies occur in the Board during the interval of the regular meetings, the Board 
shall have power to fill such vacancies pro tern. 

Article 8. Each member is entitled to a copy of every publication issued by the Society. 

Article 9. Questions relative to the dispositions of funds, may be decided by a vote of two-thirds of 
the members present. 

Article 10. Any of the above articles may be amended, or new ones introduced, by a vote of two- 
thirds of the members present. 

. jy ©fftccrs of i\\t Socirts for i840-4i. 

%<.^. ^i,^^ President. 

MARY CLOUGH, Vice-President. 
ELIZA St. CLAIR, « 
^i^AWG3fcBai£HfG, Domestic Corresponding Secretary. 
MARTHA V. BALL, Foreign Corresponding Secretary. 
^ ^ ^ MARY B. CARTER, Recording Secretary. 

J/Jt _ ^^'/ f /f^-c<^ Sl^-^3 % \. D.3 g jL, Treasurer. 



Counsellors. 

NANCY BExMAN, ABIGAIL CUMMINGS, 

JULIA RUGG, SYLVIA LEWIS, 

CLARISSA LOTHROP, LUCY PARKER, 
JUDITH SHIPLEY, SARAH T. COLVER. 



