THE 

FIFTH REPORT 

OP THE 

FOR 

BIRMINGHAM, WEST BROMWICH, 
WEDNESBURY, WALSALL, 

^ntJ ti)tiv %tsputiht Igeigl^bourljootriS, 

FOR THE RELIEF OF 

;B?l]-TIS-H ''NEC'RO: :SL'AyE'S;, ^: ; 
• V »-, -i *,,',,,,•,- ' , ,, . ", J ,,, " i \ ^,' " ] \ 

EST/^PLISHED IN 1SP.5.. 



" Wh&tever is tjnjjtst, lcpts with if a ^erm o) dostrait'oa." 

Hu-ubollt's Ptrgonal 'ytvr.-Mve, VoL 7, -p^^e 2tv. 

Thus saith the Lord ; execute ye judgment and righteousness, 

and deliver the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor : and 

do no wrong, do no violence to the stranger, the fatherless, 

nor the widow, neither shed innocent blood in this place. 

Jeremiah, xxii. c. 3. v. 



BIRMINGHAM : 
PRINTED BY B. HUDSON, BULL STREET. 

1830. 






* * ••• ,• * • 



Flu 



THE BRITISH SLAVE, 



Oh ! he is worn with toil ! the big drops run 

Down his dark cheek ! Hold,— hold thy merciless 

hand, 
Pale tyrant ; for beneath thy hard command 

O'erwearied nature sinks. The scorching sun, 

As pitiless as proud Prosperity, 

Darts on him his full beams ; gi.sping he lies. 
Arraigning with his looks the patient skies, 

While that inhuman Master lifts on high 

The mangling scourge. Oh ! ye who at your ease 
Sip the blood-sweetened beverage ! thoughts like 
these 

Haply ye scorn : I thank thee, Gracious God ! 
That I do feel upon my cheek the glow 

Of indignation, when beneath the rod 
A sable brother writhes in silent woe. 

SoUTtlEY. 



Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/fifthreportoffemOOfema 



LIFE MEMBERS. 
A Resolution was passed at the Yearly Meeting, 
held April 8, 1828,— That every Lady giving 
a donation of Five Pounds and upwards, shall 
be a member of this Society for life. 

Mrs, LITTLETON, Teddesley, near Penkridge. 

Mrs. VVEYLANU, Woodrising, Norfolk. 

Mrs. GEORGE SMITH, Selsden, Surrey. 

Miss RILA.ND, Sutton Coldfield. 

Miss LUCY RILAND, Ditto. 

Mrs MOILLIET, Hamstead Hall, Handsworth. 

Mrs. MOORSOM, Little Linford House, near New- 
port Pagnell. 

Mrs. J. H. TOWNSEND, Marizion. 

Miss WEDGEWOOD, Camp Hill, near Woore, 
Shropshire. 

Mrs. VANN, Belgrave, Leicestershire. 



BENEFACTORS. 
EDWARD ABNEY, Esq. Meeshain Hall, Derbyshire. 
CHARLES HOLT BRACEBRIDGE, Esq. Atherstoae 

Hall, Warwickshire. 
Rev. W. H. HAVERGALL, Astley, Worcestershire. 
H. MINTON, Esq. Longfield, near Newcastle. 
J. T. price, Esq. Neath Abbey, near Swansea. 
Rev. J. RILAND, Yoxall, near Lichfield. 
Rev. C. TOWNSEND. 
Rev. Dr. WHALLEY. 
Mr. LINES. 



SECRETARIES. 
Mrs. C. TOWNSEND, West Bromwich, Birmingham 
Mrs. S. LLOYD, Jun. Wednesbury, nr. Birmingham 
Miss. LOUISA MARSH, St. Thomas's, Birmingham. 
MISS C. TOWNSEND, West Bromwich. 



Committee, 



MRS. JESSE 
MRS. LLOYD 
MRS. MARSH 
MRS. MOILLIET 
MRS. DAWES 



MRS. PEARSON 
MRS. RILAND 
MISS ROTTON 
MISS STURGE 
MISS CADBURY 



MISS LANGSTON. 

Mktnct Cveajgitretig. 

MRS PHILIP, Cape of Good Hope, Africa. 
MRS. ALLPORT, Ashted, Birmingham. 
MRS. E. ABNEY, Measham Hall, Derbyshire. 
MRS. WILLIAM BULLOCK, Calthorpe Street, Birm. 
MISS BEAUMGARTNER, Godmanchester, Cam- 
bridgeshire. 
MRS. LLOYD, Bordesley, Birmingham. 
MISS SARAH DUFTON, Brigham, nr. Cockermouth 
MRS. DANIEL LEDSAM, Crejcent, Birmingham. 
MRS. PEARSON, Five Ways, Birmingham. 
MISS CADBURY, Calthorpe Street, Birmingham. 
MISS STURGE, Edgbaston, Birmingham. 
MISSS. CLAY, Burton- upon-Trent. 
MRS. PHELAN, Bagshot. 
MRS. WAGSTAFF, Talsarn, Carnarvon. 
MRS. FOSTER, Bank, Bilston. 
MRS. J. CASH, Coventry. 
MRS. S. GREAVES, near Canterbury. 
MRS. ORPEN, 40, Stephen's East, Dublin. 



MISS WAINWRIGHT, D«dley, 

MISSES C. & E. FOX, Falmouth. 

MRS. MOILLIET. Hamstead Hall, Handswortli. 

MRS. DA.WES, Leverets, Handsworth. 

MRS. R. HOWARD andl Tottenham, nr. London. 

MRS. J. HODGSON. J 

MRS. HEYRICK, Leicester. 

MISS SUSANNAH WATTS, Leicester. 

MRS. GOE, Louth, Lincolnshire. 

MRS. J. H. TOWNSEND, Marizion, Cornwall. 

MISSES WHITEHOUSE, Monmouth. 

MRS. MOORSOM, Little Linford House, Ne«^port 

Pagnell. 
MRS. WARD, Ditto. 
MRS. HILL, Oxford. 
MRS. KEEL, Oakham. 
MISS COOKE, the Chase, Ross. 
MRS. BELL, Reedness, near Goole, Yorkshire. 
MISS CURWEN, Uppington, Shrewsbury. 
MISSES RILAND, Maney, Sutton Coldfield. 
MRS. CLARK, Southampton. 
MISS WEDGEWOOD, Camp Hill, near Woore, 

Shropshire. 
MRS. TOTTENHAM LEE, Wakefield. 
MRS. JESSE, Hill House, West Bromwich. 
MRS. C. TOWNSEND. West Bromwich. 
MRS. HARPER, Heath, West Bromwich. 
MISSES SMITH, Summerfleld House, W. Bromwicl 
MRS. HOOD, Heath, West Bromwich. 
MRS. RUSSELL, Bescott Hall, Walsall. 



10 



MRS. S. LLOYD, JUN. Wednesbury. 
MRS. RILAND, Yoxall, near Lichfield. 



N. B. The residence of the District Treasurers is 
particularized, to facilitate the remittance of Donations 
and Subscriptions ; and from them may be obtained 
Work Bags, Albums, Anti-slavery China, &c, and the 
Documents mentioned in the sixth Resolution. 



REPORT. 



No sensible approach having yet been made by 
the Colonial Legislatures, or by the Government 
of this Country, towards the attainment of the 
object which, by the 8th resolution, passed at 
the formation of our Society, we are pledged 
to see accomplished, before we withdraw from 
the work we are engaged in, we feel it our duty 
to continue to exert our feeble efforts, as far as 
we are able, towards the extinction of British 
Slavery; that crying sin, which, we grieve 
to say, is still supported and encouraged by 
many of those who make it their daily prayer 
that the Will of God may be done on Earth as 
it is done in Heaven ! 

Thirty years ago there was little hesitation 
amongst religious characters, as to the disuse of 
Sugar, that great staple and support of West 
India Slavery, which, with its protecting duties 
and bounties, still repays the Planter more than 
all he loses by the premature death of his 



12 

Slaves,* and encourages him to reject the mea- 
sures of amelioration proposed by the Govern- 
ment at home. 

If conscientious persons, thirty years ago, 
thus testified their abhorrence of the Slave 
Trade,t hy the disuse of Slave-grown Sugar, is 
it not extraordinary, that, in these days of high 
religious profession, the religious world should 
exhibit no such proof of their abhorrence of sla- 
very ? Whence is it that they who deem them- 
selves the Church of Christ are not anxious to 
protest against, and to dissent from, this our 
great National crime, (which, in fact, compre- 
hends within itself almost every crime that can 
be mentioned;) and to take this beam out of 
their own eye, before they offer to take the 
mote out of the eye of their heathen brethren, 
whether at home or abroad ? And even inde- 
pendently of the consideration of coming to the 
w^ork of the Lord with clean hands, when they 
would aid in the spread of the gospel upon 
earth, can it possibly escape their knowlege 
that the great It rrier to the conversion of the 
Negroes to Christianity is the existence of sla- 
very ? What does Dr. Philip say on this sub- 
ject, who has exerted himself so much for the 
missionary cause ? And what does the Society 

* Appendix, No. 1. t Appendix, No, 2. 



13 

for the conversion and religious instruction and 
education of the Negro Slaves in the British 
West India Islands say in their Report for 
1828 ? Dr Phihp says,* " Let the advocates 
of religion and humanity use their efforts to put 
a period to the slavery of the Aborigines within 
the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope, and they 
will by that single act do more for the promul- 
gation of the gospel in South Africa, than all 
the funds of the London Missionary Society 
could effect, w^liile things continue in that Co- 
lony as they now are." And the Society just re- 
ferred to say, that the Bishop of Jamaica informs 
them *' that the Planters are not disposed to 
permit more than oral instruction to be given 
to the Slaves on their estates ;" and that " even 
this, is still far from general."t To the same 
effect the Society for promoting Christian 
Knowledge states in its Report for the year 
1829, p. 43, that " In Jamaica reading schools 
for slaves, are still, with the exception of St. 
Thomas in the East, confined almost entirely to 
the principal towns ; and eiien oral instruction 
has been checked in several instances by the re- 
fusal of Proprietors to admit Catechists on their 
estates.'* But so long as Catechists are not 

* Preface to Dr Philip's Researches in South Africa,- 
t Missionary Register, October, 1829, ; , 



14 

generally and freely admitted upon estates, the 
instruction of the Negroes is still to be com- 
menced. 

If we search the Scriptures with a sincere de- 
sire to learn from them our duty on this sub- 
ject, without attempting to wrest them to our 
own purposes or opinions, shall we not perceive 
God's anger against oppression, and the abet- 
tors of oppression, indelibly engraven on the 
pages of that sacred volume as with a pen of 
iron ? Undoubtedly we shall. And therefore 
when we know that the Christian World still 
countenances and supports a System in which 
the very foundations of equity are out of course, 
and which invites the oppressor to glut his ap- 
petite for cruelty and injustice to the full, with- 
out fear of punishment in this world, must we 
not believe that God is offended, and that he 
will one day demand a strict account from those 
who, in this respect, know his will, and do it 
not ? It is true, the murder of an enslaved 
British subject under some circumstances, is 
now made a capital crime in some of our Slave 
Colonies : but while the West Indian rules of 
evidence render the execution of the laws for 
this offence all but impossible, and while the re- 
turns laid before Parliament since 1823, clearly 
establish the fact, that the slave population has 
decreased at the rate of nearly twenty eight 



15 

thousand in six years, any laws apparently 
made for their protection are in fact but mockery 
and delusion. The enormous excess of deaths 
over births in Trinidad being lately mentioned 
to a Planter who had resided in that Colony 
for twenty-five years, he remarked emphatically, 
** It is the Sugar which kills them ; more of it 
is made in proportion in Trinidad than any 
where else."* If these things are indeed so, — 
and that they are it is impossible to doubt — 
have we ever yet exerted ourselves on behalf of 
our enslaved fellow- subjects as we ought ? 
Nay, have we ever yet exerted ourselves on 
behalf of the abettors of their wrongs as we 
ought ? We see our fellow-creatures day by 
day acting fundamentally, and perhaps in some 
cases ignorantly, against the merciful laws of 
God ; and yet, unmindful, it should seem, of the 
extent of our pledge " to endeavour to awaken 
in the minds of our Countrymen, and of all 
those over whom we have any influence, a 
lively sense of the injustice and impiety of our 
present system of Colonial Slavery, and to 
excite in those, who never yet pitied British 
Slaves, feelings of regret for their past indiffer- 
ence,*'! we have not to this day promoted, as 
we might have done, the employment of a 

* See Anti-slavery Reporter, No. 30. 
X See the 9th Resolution of this Society, 



16 

regular agency, for assisting in the formation 
of extended Associations in every accessible 
part of his Majesty's dominions, in order that 
the appalhng wickedness of the Colonial system 
might become known (if possible) to all men. 
That we may no longer have to reproach our- 
selves with this part of our duty, it will be pro- 
posed to this Meeting — and we trust will be 
unanimously approved of — that we henceforth 
appropriate a certain portion of our funds to- 
wards the employing of travelling Agents, for 
the purpose just referred to, and also for the ge- 
neral purpose of declaring to all those who are 
willing to give them the hearing, that the real 
upholders of Slavery are they who provide a 
market for the Slaveholder ; that they it is, and 
none but they, who furnish him with the direct 
incentive to all his injustice, all his inhumanity, 
and all his oppression. If^ in ansvv^er to this it 
shall be said, and we grieve to say it has been 
said, that Saint Paul himself did not disapprove 
of Slavery in all circumstances, or else he would 
not have sent back Onesimus to Philemon ; — 
the advocates of truth and justice will reply, 
that, as Saint Paul was well acquainted with 
the statutes and ordinances of the Jewish law, 
and possessed with a deep reverence for all its 
moral obhgations, — he never could think it 
right to send back Onesimus as a Slave to his 



17 



master ; and therefore never did so. Had he 
done so, he would have been guilty of a direct 
■violation of the rule of mercy delivered to the 
people of the Jews in the 23rd. chapter of Deu- 
teronomy : *' Thou shall not deliver unto his 
master the servant which is escaped from his 
master unto thee." It is absolutely inconceiva- 
ble, that the Apostle, entrusted as he was with 
the dispensation of the gospel of mercy and of 
love, — should fly in the face of so plain and ex- 
press a command as this, for the sake of re -con- 
signing the Lord's freedman, and the man for 
whom he himself felt all a father's love, to a 
species of Slavery only surpassed in atrocity by 
that which is maintained in the Colonies of 
Christian Britain. Accordingly, it is evident 
from the express terms of the Epistle, that St. 
Paul did not send back Onesimus to Philemon 
as a slave, but as above a slave, — a brother be- 
loved, — a brother not unfit to be associated (as 
we find in the Epistle to the Colossians he was 
associated) with Tychicus, a Minister of the 
Lord, in the ministerial office of "comforting- 

o 

the hearts" of the Christians at Colosse, and 
reporting to them all things pertaining to the 
state of the Church at Rome. No one, it is 
presumed, will go the length of saying that this 
was an office fit to be deputed to a Greciaa 
slave ! 



18 

But it is further said, that because St. Paul 
does not in this Epistle plainly denounce the 
inherent sinfulness of holding a fellow -creature 
in a state of slavery, it is sufficiently evident 
that he deems it an allowable practice. But 
nothing, surely, can be more unwarrantable 
than to take it for granted^ that a Christian 
Teacher approves of every practice which he 
does not, whether in season, or out of season, 
formally and expressly condemn. Are we to 
imagine for instance, when we hear St. Paul 
alluding, in his 1st. Epistle to the Corinthians, 
to the bloody and indecent celebrations of the 
Cestus and the Pancratia in the Grecian Games, 
without one ivord of censure, that he therefore 
approves those cruel and disgusting exhibitions, 
or considers them as allowable, or endurable, in 
the followers of a holy Saviour ? Why, then, 
is he to be accused of giving his sanction to 
slavery, only because he does not expressly 
condemn it in his letter to Philemon } We see, 
then, how perfectly unfounded a notion it is, 
that there is any thing in this Epistle to coun- 
tenance slavery oi any kind : and as to extract- 
ing from it any thing favourable to the 
continuance of the superlatively cruel and 
inhuman species of slavery maintained in the 
dependencies of the British Empire, the at- 
tempt appears to be little less creditable to the 



19 



tinderstanding than to the heart of those who 
make it. 

At the Quarterly Meeting held at Dr. De 
Lys's on the 26th of November, 1829, a very 
satisfactory report was received from the Auxili- 
ary Visiting Committee of Birmingham, which 
had, at length, completed its laborious task, 
commenced four years ago, of diffusing infor- 
mation on the subject of slavery, from house t jj^ 
house, and recommending the use of freelabv. ^-^q 
Sugar. They withdrew from their work wi.^^ 
the pleasing reflection, that their efforts, though^ 
feeble, had been persevering j and if not suc- 
cessful to the extent of their wishes, yet had 
been by no means fruitless. 

We regret to say, that owing to some par-./ 
ticular circumstances, our attempts to effect thid 
ransom of Betto Douglas have been unavailing," 
our application first to the Proprietor, and then^ 
to the Agent on the spot, having been alike un- 
successful. The Ladies of Reading have raised 
a sum of money for ransoming a pious female 
slave, who is well qualified for the office of a 
Schoolmistress ; and the Ladies of Clifton are 
also collecting money for a similar purpose. 
One of the le^ing objects of the DubHn Negro 
Friends Societ^ is stated in the Articles of their 
Constitution to be — "To aid in procuring the 
freedom of such pious Negroes as are suitable 



20 

characters to be employed as Schoolmasters, or 
' Readers and Distributors of the Scriptures 
amongst their brethren. 

It may not be generally known, that a Socie- 
ty formed in 1828, at the Cape of Good Hope, 
under the patronage of the Governor, "for 
aiding deserving slaves and slave children, to 
' purchase their freedom," has succeeded in re- 

^-^eming six individuals from bondage.* 
formes a portion of the funds of this Association 
imast ^ ^ appropriated to assist the benevolent 
all ^ ^ of a Society which has for fifteen years 
^ <iiforded relief to distressed and deserted Slaves 
in Antigua, it may not be uninteresting to oiu: 
friends to learn the manner in which the Agent 
a^of this Society has been treated for simply 
onbaying the command of our Saviour, by minis- 
the;ring, like the good Samaritan, to the distresses 
is of the helpless and the desolate. The Society's 
^ proceedings being adverted to by a friend of 
Africa, at one of the public meetings held in this 
country, aWest Indian Planter, who was present, 
wrote over to his friends in Antigua, and repre- 
sented the conduct of the distributors of this cha- 
rity in such a light, that it was deemed worthy of 
the cognizance of the House of Assembly. Jo- 
seph Phillips, a resident of the Island, who had 

*See Appendix, No. 3. 



21 



most kindly, and disinterestedly exerted himself 
ill the distribution of the money from England 
among the Poor deserted slaves, was brought 
before the Assembly, and most severely inter- 
rogated : on his refusing to deliver up his pri- 
vate correspondence with his friends in England, 
he was thrown into a loathsome jail,* where he 
was kept for nearly five months ; while his loss 
of business, and the oppressive proceedings in- 
stituted against him, were involving him in 
poverty and ruin. On his discharge by the 
House of Assembly, he was seized in their lobby 
for debt. ** It was by much entreaty," he 
writes, *• that the Marshall would allow me half 
an hour in custody of the Jailer, to go and 
see my dying mother-in-law and family, after 
near five months absence ! The tears of my wif0 
and children were almost more than I coulid 
support, when T was again dragged to jail." 
We regret that we could only vote fifteen pounds 
to the relief of this much injured man, and would 
earnestly entreat the help of other Ladies' Asso- 
ciations to deliver this victim of oppression from 
his persecutors. Let the followers of Jesus 
Christ remember the sorrowful sighing of this 



* They who desire to be acquainted with the 
loathsomeness of a West Indian jail, have only to read 
an account of one in the Wesleyan Missionary Notice 
No. 156. 



^•2 



prisoner, now sitting in darkness and in the 
shadow of death, and by their charity visit him 
and show him mercy for the Lord's sake. 
In our Report for the year 1826 we quoted a 
. passage from the thirteeenth Report of the So- 
. ciety for the Relief of Deserted Slaves in the 
Island of Antigua, in reference to a case of 
, great distress. This statement fell into the 
bands of Mr. Macqueen, the Editor of the Glas- 
gow Courier. Of the consequences resulting 
; from this circumstance we only gained infor- 
mation through the Leicester Chronicle, 
, which had copied an article froin the weekly 
, Register of Antigua, dated St. John's, Septem- 
ber 22, 1829. ^'^e find from this that Mr. 
, Macqueen affirms, that " with the exception of 
,. the fact, that the society is, as it deserves to be, 
. duped out of its money, the whole tale" (of the 
distress above referred to) "is an abominable 
falsehood.'* This statement, which we are in- 
formed has appeared in many of the Public 
Papers, is COMPLETELY REFUTED in our 
Appendix, No. 4, to which we refer our read- 
ers. Mr. Macqueen's statements, we regret to 
say, would lead many to believe that there are 
no deserted Negroes to assist ; and that the 
case mentioned was a perfect fabrication. He 
also distinctly avers, that the disinterested and 
-^ane Agent of the Society, Mr. Joseph Phil- 
■ -^ man of the most worthless and aban- 



23 



doned character." — In opposition to this state- 
ment we learn the good character of Mr. 
Phillips* from those who have long been ac- 
quainted with his laudable exertions in the 
cause of humanity, and from the Editor of the 
Weekly Register of Antigua, who speaks, on 
his own knowlege, of more than twenty years 
back, confidently appealing at the same time, 
to the inhabitants of the Colony in which he 
resides, for the truth of his averments, and 
producing a testimonial to Mr. Phillips's good 
character signed by two Members of the Anti- 
gua House of Assembly, and by Mr. Wyke, the 
Collector of his Majesty's customs, and by An- 
tigua Merchants, as follows — "that they have 
been acquainted with him the last four years, 
and upwards, and he has always conducted him- 
self in an upright becoming" manner — his cha- 
racter we know to be unimpeached, and his 
morals unexceptionable," 

(Signed) Thomas Saunderson 

John A. Wood 
Samuel L. Darrel 
John D. Taylor 
George Wyke 
Giles S. Musson 
Robert Grant. 
Dated St. John's, Antigua, June 28, JSiS3. 

* See Philanthropic Magazine,. >^ 



24 

We are anxious that Mr. Macqueen's calum- 
nies, and their refutation, should be particularly 
attended to, in order that some little insight 
may be gained into the methods practiced by 
the opponents of abolition to deceive the people 
of England. The Anti-slavery Reporters contain 
many instructive statements of the measures 
adopted for this purpose ; and we would par- 
ticularly refer our readers to Vol. I, p. 191, 
which mentions, that ^3000 were voted to 
Mr. Macqueen by the Jamaica House of Assem- 
bly ; and to Vol. II, p. 429, which mentions, 
that he is supposed to have received ^15,000 in 
all from the West Indies, partly in votes from 
the Houses of Assembly, and partly in public 
Subscriptions.* It is a curious fact, that while 
all the Journals in the Kingdom have been 
filled with details of the horrors of the Edin- 
burgh resurrection men, and the Oddingley 
nmrders, scarcely any of them, with the excep- 
tion of a single London Morning Paper, and 
two or three other London Papers, have 
taken the shghtest notice of the multiplied hor- 
rors which have been incessantly enacted in 
our Colonial possessions. Mr. Huskisson, 
in his despatch to the Governor of the Ba- 

"-^ane '^"^i-Slavery Monthly Reporter, p. 462. 



25 

hamas, dated Downing Street, September 28, 
1827, speaks of one of these cases of dread- 
ful cruelty; and one that was "proved'* he says, 
"beyond dispute, viz. that of a female slave, 
who" (we are using Mr. Huskisson's words, 
and not our own) "was flogged repeatedly, and 
red pepper rubbed into her eyes to prevent her 
sleeping :"t after detailing other atrocities, he 
mentions, "that she was again flogged at seven 
o'clock, and died at noon." Her murderers 
were sentenced to a slighter punishment than 
would have been awarded them in this country 
for killing a dog, or a partridge. Yet these and 
still more dreadful facts are not rung in our ears, 
but are totally omitted by the most popular part 
of the Free Press of England. We may form 
a probable conjecture, therefore, how some of 
the money is disposed of which is annually 
levied by a West India Committee in London, 
on all produce imported from our Slave Colonies ; 
of which levy the yearly estimate is conjectured 
to be about 3820,000 per annum.* 

It cannot, then, be wondered at that we desire 
to see proper Agents employed to convince the 
people of England, that nothing efiectual, or 
becoming a Christian Nation, has yet been done 
for the deliverance of our enslaved fellow-sub- 

t Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, p. 46.3, 



26 

jects out of the hands of their Oppressors, nor 
for the averting from this guilty land the dis- 
pleasure of offended Heaven. From pity to the 
Masters, as well as to the Slaves, we are anxious 
to do our best to call forth the virtue and integ- 
rity at least of that portion of the Christian 
World who are desirous of proving their faith 
by their works, that, with the blessing of Him 
''whose eyes run to and fro throughout the whole 
earth, to shew himself strong in behalf of those 
whose heart is perfect towards him," the chains 
of the Captive Negro may be peaceably remo- 
ved at last, instead of being violently rent 
asunder by his own hand. 

We have more than once had occasion to no- 
tice the specious and plausible objection that is 
urged against the present emancipation of the 
Negroes on the alleged ground of their not 
being yet fit for the enjoyment of freedom. In 

* Our conjecture rests on a ch'cular, signed Alexan- 
der Macdonnell, Secretary, and dated West India 
Dock House, July 15, 1825, announcing an impost of 
six-pence on every cask of sugar, coffee, or rum, 
brought to this country, and on other articles in pro- 
portion. Now, at this rate, the three articles which 
are particularly specified, viz. sugar, coffee, and rum, 
ouo-ht to yield on the whole amount of their annual 
import into Great Britain and Ireland, at least £12,500 : 
the amount on the other articles of import must be very 
considerable. See Anti-slavery Reporter, Vol. III. p. 28. 



27 



the *' Genius of Universal Emancipation" there 
are some remarks on this point, in a letter ad- 
dressed by a Member of the Society of Friends 
to Thomas Clarkson, which set the matter in so 
clear a light, that we think the following ex- 
tracts from them cannot but be acceptable to all 
who prefer ackowleged right heiore presumed ex- 
pediency. After an assertion of the undeniable 
truth, that " it is no more justifiable in the sight 
of Heaven to make slaves of the offspring of 
slaves, than it is to fetch slaves from Africa ;" 
the writer goes on to say, that since '* the ten- 
dency of slavery is to lead directly down to a 
state of degradation, so nothing short of their 
being set at liberty therefrom can open the way 
for their (the slaves') rising out of it." The 
inconsistency of the plea for delay which he is 
contending against is also, he says, further evi- 
dent, " from its supposing a capacity in man, of 
his own will, to produce good out of evil. 
And," he adds, " I may further observe, that I 
never knew an instance in the course of my life, 
of any honest, judicious man, being fully con- 
vinced of the unrighteousness of holding his fel- 
low creature in bondage, that ever dare, or felt 
any inducement, to put off setting them free, 
under the plea of their not being fit for free- 
dom ; but I have known faithful men, who have 
been fearful of procrastinating, least something 



28 

might transpire, that might put it out of their 
power to do that justice to their slaves, by set- 
ting them free, which they were conscious was 
their absolute duty. Had the society of Friends 
in this country, yielded to such a plea, or ad- 
mitted it to have been either rational or just, 
when they first became convinced of the un- 
righteousness and injustice of holding their fel- 
low-creatures in a state of involuntary slavery, 
it is most probable, that the thousands, and 
tens of thousands, who have been manumitted 
and set free by them and others in our land, 
would still have been held under the galling 
voke, or have ended their days in a state of 

thraldom and bondage," " and I never heard 

a single individual say that he had set one free 
too soon ; but was fully persuaded that what he 
had done in the case was not only his duty^ but 
his best interest. And what is most just, and 
righteous, in such a case for an individual, is no 
doubt the same to a nation or government.** 

. "And, I believe, strict and impartial justice 

is as much the right, and is as justly due from 
the English government to an African in the 
Island of Jamaica, as it is to an Englishman in 
the Island of Great Britain. Is it not therefore 
the duty of every real Christian, and a worthy 
and suitable exercise for every philanthropic 
mind, to attend to the exhortation of Solomon, 



29 



Proverbs xxxi. 8, 9, * Open thy mouth for the 
dumb, in the cause of all such as are appointed 
to destruction. Open thy mouth, judge righte- 
ously, and plead the cause of the poor and 
needy.' " 



APPENDIX. 

No. 1 , Taken from an address (printed by one of 
the correspondents of this Society) to the consumers 
of West India Suscar, and the supporters of West 
India Slavery. 

As the destruction of slave life forms the 
most appalling feature in Colonial Slavery, 
it is necessary to give some explanation res- 
pecting it, and also of the means by which 
the planters are enabled to afford such an enor- 
mous waste of their property. In the first 
place, they are protected in this market, against 
the competition of better, and less destructive 
systems, by high discriminating duties in their 
favour being laid on all other sugars. Secondly, 
they receive a bounty on refined sugar exported, 
which raises the price of all consumed in this 
country, and puts about ^6600 ,000 per annum 
into their pockets. Now as the amount of the 
loss of slave life, or of any other outlay incurred 
in raising sugar, can be afforded in proportion 
to the increased price obtained for it, this sum 
of j6600,000, it is evident, affords the planters 
the means of wasting about a corresponding 
amount of slave life, and hence it has very ap- 
propriately been designated, a bounty on cruelty. 



31 

The case of a manufacturer and his machinery 
in this country, is precisely analogous to that 
of a Planter (or manufacturer of sugar) and his 
human machinery in the Colonies. — As the 
price of produce or goods is high, they are both 
alike enabled to give a higher price for the ma- 
chinery, and induced to employ it more, and 
thus to wear it out more rapidly. This mur- 
derous effect of the bounty affords a strong 
additional reason for decKning the use of sugar ; 
as slave life may be emphatically said to form a 
large proportion of its cost. On comparing the 
quantity of Sugar raised in Dem. 3rara from 1818 
to 1824, with the am^ount of the value of slave 
life destroyed during the same period of time, 
it appears that the latter amounts to about one 
sixth part of the net value of the sugar ! ! In- 
dependently therefore of other considerations, 
this article should be singled out as peculiarly 
objectionable, being the main source of support 
to slavery, and of destruction to the slaves. The 
following may be considered a pretty fair state- 
ment of the effects of sugar cultivation as car- 
ried on in our Colonies in destroying or pre- 
venting the increase of population, during the 
period of six years above referred to. 

The total decrease of the slaves it appears 
was 28,000; had they increased as they do in 
the Bahamas, or in the United States, or as the 



32 

free blacks, in Jamaica, the increase would have 
been 105,000 in that period. Now this added 
to the actual loss makes 133,000 in six years. 
If Slaves are valued at £46 each, which appears 
to be the value by the amount of sales in diffe- 
rent Islands, it will amount to 586,118,000; 
but this loss is more than repaid by the bounty, 
which during the same period was x61, 200,000 
per annum, (it has since been reduced one half) 
making a total of ^7,200,000. The beneficial 
effects of a diminished demand for sugar, in 
hastening the abolition of slavery is strikingly 
exhibited in this statement. Every increase of 
the number of the Slaves rendering them less 
valuable, they would at length become quite 
valueless as slaves, and hence their liberation 
would rapidly take place. 

Appendix, No. 2. 

The following Extract from Mr. Clarkson's History of 
the Abolition of the Slave Trade may serve to show 
the probable effects that would result from an exten- 
sive adoption of the system of a travelling agency. 
There was no town through which I passed 
(in a tour of six thousand miles through Wales 
and England,) in vv^hich there was not some one 
individual who had left off the use of sugar. 
In the smaller towns there were from ten to 
fifty by estimation, and in the larger from two 



33 



to five hundred, who had made this sacrifice to 
virtue. These were of all ranks and parties. 
Rich and poor, Churchmen and Dissenters, had 
adopted the measure. Even grocers had left 
oil trading in the article, in some places. In 
gentlemen's families, where the master had set 
the example, the servants had often voluntarily 
followed it; and even children, who were capa- 
ble of understanding the history of the suffer- 
ings of the Africans, excluded, with the most 
virtuous resolution, the sweets to which they 
had been accustomed, from their lips. By the 
best computation I was able to make from notes 
taken down in my journey, no fewer than three 
hundred thousand persons had abandoned the 

use of sugar. Vol. 2, page 349. 

* * The efl^ects of the two journeys by Dr. 
Dickson and myself were soon visible. The 
people could not bear the facts, which had been 
disclosed to them by the Abridgement of the 
Evidence. They were not satisfied, many of 
them, with the mere abstinence from sugar ; 
but began to form Committees to correspond 
with that of London. Vol. 2, page 351. 

Appendix, No. 3. 

Though our efforts for the ransom of our 
fellow-creatures from bondage may be esteemed 



34 

by many as less than the widow's mite, yet 
we hope they may assist in bringing to the re- 
collection of some, that the " redemption of 
captives has long been deemed in the Christian 
World, one of the highest descriptions of that 
charity which is the glory of the Gospel." The 
following example of one who had been a Slave 
herself, and yet was anxious to emancipate a 
fellow-creature from a cruel and hopeless bon- 
dage, is taken from the Baltimore Courier, of 
the date of February 18, 1826, copied from 
the New York Observer, and we trust it may 
encourage some on this side the Atlantic to go 
and do likewise : — 

The following interesting circumstance was 
brought to light by a young Lady of this city. 
On her weekly visit from the Bible Association, 
to which she belongs, she chanced to step into 
a low cellar, where she found a coloured woman 
far gone in a consumption, with her aged hus- 
^band sitting by her bed side, acting in the 
capacity of nurse and servant. The young 
Lady told them her business. When the sick 
woman heard she was on an errand of mercy, 
her withered and sickly countenance assumed 
the glow and brightness of youth. After ex- 
pressing a stedfast hope of salvation through 
the merits of a crucified Saviour, she gave the 
following epitome of her life. But a few years 



35 



ago, she was a Slave in New Orleans : by in- 
dustry and economy, she and her husband were 
enabled to purchase their freedom ; and in the 
course of two or three years to lay up about 400 
dollars. Sitting in the door of her cottage one 
morning, she heard that a number of slaves 
were to be sold at Auction that day, she deter- 
mined to go and see the sale, and if possible, to 
buy one of them. She said to herself, '* I have 
so much money, and if I can make it the instru- 
ment of redeeming one of my fellow-beings 
from Slavery, then can I say to my soul, * de- 
part in peace.' She went and purchased one 
for D250. But now, said she, I must place 
her under the sound of the Gospel. She took 
passage for herself, her husband, and her libera- 
ted friend for this city, where they arrived 
about six months ago. When they came on 
shore, "now," said she, *^you are in a free 
state, where the privileges of the Gospel are 
enjoyed: all that I ask for my kindness to you 
is, that you strive to make your peace with God. 
If you live with me, and work for your support, 
I shall be rejoiced ; you are at liberty to do as 
you please.'* She accepted of her invitation, 
acts as her nurse, and is now rejoicing in the 
mercy of God. 



36 



Appendix No. 4. 
(Extract from the Weekly Register, Antigua, Sept. 22, 
]829, headed **The Glasgow Courier. — Libel on an 
Inhabitant of Antigua.") 

" We have been induced to set about this 
article from having seen an extract from the 
Glasgow Courier of the 16th of July, in which 
Mr. M'Queen has published a gross, scandalous 
and malicious libel on the character of an un- 
fortunate individual of this community. 

"It appears that there are two asssociations of 
Ladies in England, who profess to extend re- 
lief to the distressed Negroes in the West 
Indies. One of these is the Leicester Anti- 
Slavery Society, and the other the Birmingham 
Society. Not long since they issued circulars 
inviting the Ladies of other parts to make com- 
mon cause with them, and as their circulation 
was very extensive, one of these invitations fell 
into the hands of Mr. M'Queen, who turned to 
carving and trimming it till he had wrought a 
tale which he expected would redound greatly 
to his credit. 

" Among other incitements to obtain assist- 
ance in the pursuit of their object, the Ladies 
mentioned the following case : ' Thirty pounds 
were sent last year by the Birmingham Society 
to the Committee for the Relief of distressed 
Negroes in Antigua. The following case, 
among many, is added for the satisfaction of the 



37 

public : Henry Shannon, a poor cripple with 
one leg, and that so lame that he cannot walk. 
His owner left the Island without making any 
provision for him. Allowed 2s. per week from 
the Relief Society.* " 

" On this and other statements put forth by 
the Ladies, Mr. M' Queen proceeds to comment 
at length, and the following is the extract to 
which we have alluded. — ' But we chiefly no- 

* tice this circular in order to expose the abomi- 

* nable imposition practised upon our country- 
' women in the statement which it contains, viz. 
' that Negroes in our colonies are left destitute 
' by their masters, and that the Ladies of this 
' Society have, in conjunction with the Birming- 

* ham Society, sent 3630 to the relief of the dis- 

* tressed Negroes in Antigua, and particularly to 
' one named * Henry Shannon, a poor cripple 

* with one leg, and that so lame he cannot walk; 

* his ov ner left the Island without making any 

* provision for him: allowed 2s. from the funds of 

* the relief Society.' With the exception of the 

* fact that the Society is, as it deserves to be, 

* duped out of its money, the whole of this fine- 

* spun tale we assert is an abominable falsehood: 

* and we state this upon the authority of the 

* proceedings of the legislature of Antigua, com- 

* municated to us the other day by a member of 

* that legislature, into whose hands we put the 

c2 



38 



* present circular, and who^ hearing of the tale 
' and the imposition, set on foot an enquiry, and 

* found that there was not only no negro of that 

* name in Antigua, but no negro in that destitute 
' situation, nor had any negro slave been relieved 

* by, or sought relief from, the Relief Society j 
' but this is not all, for in the course of the en- 

* quiry,the legislature found that the money had 

* actually been received from the society by their 

* informant and correspondent, a man of the most 
' Avorthless and abandoned character, who having 

* received it, applied the whole to his own use ; 

* a character so thoroughly despicable and degra- 

* ded, that he is known in Antigua, by the name 

* of the Affidavit -maker y he readily making affi - 

* davits at the rate of one dollar each, to support 
'the cause of any scoundrel that employs him. 

* This man was called before the legislature to 

* give an account of the lie he had transmitted 

* home, and requested to point out the distressed 
' negroes whom he had relieved, but he refused 

* to speak or answer, and was actually committed 

* for contempt. His name is in our hands, but 
' we wish someof our Antigua friends would send 

* us home the full legislative and official proceed- 

* ings in the case, that we may with safety to 

* ourselves, place this man in propria persona 

* before a deluded and insulted country. Such 
' are the informants of the Anti-Slavery Societies 
' in this country ;— -such are the distributors of 



39 



* their charities! such are the falsehoods scatter- 

* ed over the stultified country, and such the 

* kind of pests of society, whom our Anti-Col- 
' onists encourage and delight to honour, and 

* to whom they so readily give their money !' 

"Those who know any thing of passing events 
in this Colony, will readily perceive that the 
person here alluded to is Mr. Joseph Phillips, 
who was imprisoned by the House of Assembly 
in December last, and after an incarceration of 
one hundred and forty-one days, discharged by 
the interference of His Majesty's Government. 
The circumstances detailed by Mr. M'Queen^ 
are so plausibly told, and appear to be grounded 
on such undeniable authority, that had not the 
article come under our review, it would no 
doubt have passed for a fresh proof of his clever- 
ness and perseverance in hunting up incontro- 
vertible facts with comparative ease whenever 
it suits his pleasure. Fortunately, however, 
for the character of the present individual, the 
philippic came in our way, and we have it in 
our power to pronounce that it is a compound 
of the vilest, most wicked, and most premedita- 
ted falsehoods ever penned, and that the mem- 
ber of Assembly, whoever he may be, who gave 
such information to his worthy coadjutor, must 
be a man destitute of either honour or integrity. 
Before we proceed to dissect the article as it 
deserves, we have to notice that there are but 



40 



three members of our Assembly at present in 
the mother country, and we should be heartily 
glad to know which of these has made himself 
so acceptable to Mr. M' Queen. Two of them 
are well known to take very little interest in 
our political squabbles, and are too much enga- 
ged in their own concerns to be troubled with 
those of other people. If it be the individual 
we suspect, (and we think we are not in error) 
he is exactly the man to be at the elbow of a 
hired newspaper scribbler. But to proceed to 
the overthrow of the libel/'—" Mr. M'Queen's 
honourable informant having set on foot an en- 
quiry, and found that there was no Negro of 
the name of Henry Shannon, in Antigua, we 
became enquirers also, and found that the name 
is Henry Shearman/^ and that he is the identical 
person alluded to, and if Mr. M'Queen's ho- 
nourable informant had given the subject a 
moment's reflection, it would have occurred to 
him that there might be some error in the name, 
though the person might not differ, and very 
little additional enquiry might have elicited the 
truth. This Henry Shearman, it seems, belon- 
ged to a lady who was formerly a resident of 
this Island, and though he has latterly been de- 
pendent upon other sources for support, it is 
but justice to his owner to state, that after her 

* The name is entered " H. Shireman," in a written 
document possessed by our Society. 



41 



removal to a neighbouring colony, he continued 
for some time to receive the very liberal allow- 
ance of 22s. 6d. currency per month, from her 
attorney, out of the rent of a small property ; 
this property was afterwards sold, and she being 
herself in poor circumstances, the invalid no 
longer received the allowance which his mistress 
would fain have given him. In this situation 
he was discovered by the Rev. Mr. Richter, of 
the Moravian Church, about the month of 
July, 1825, and from that period to the present, 
allowed the sum of 2s. per week, out of the 
funds received from England for such purposes. 
This man is also a pensioner on the daily meal 
society, lately established in the town, under the 
immediate superintendence of the Rector of the 
Parish, and supported by the liberality of his 
Excellency the Governor, and a number of 
Gentlemen of the first rank, both of town and 
country, as well as the inhabitants generally, ac- 
cording to their circumstances. Mr. M'Queen's 
honourable informant also adds these words, 
* nor had any Negro Slave been relieved by or 
sought relief from the Relief Society." This, 
on " an enquiry set on foot' by us, turns out to 
be (according to Mr. M'Queen's graceful and 
courteous manner) a " lie !"* 

* This Extract from the Antigua Register may be 
seen in the Leicester Chronicle, of Dec. 26, 1829, from 
which wc copy it. 



42 



RESOLUTIONS. 



I. That we form ourselves into a Society for 
the melioration of the condition of the unhappy- 
children oi Africa, and especially of Female Ne- 
gro Slaves, who, living under the British Do- 
minions, receive from British hands their lot of 
bitterness. 

II. That in performance of these eflforts of 
mercy, we abstain as much as possible from 
needlessly offending the West India Planters, 
while we use every proper exertion in aid es- 
pecially of the Female Negro Slaves. 

III. That all members of this Society shall 
subscribe towards the furtherance of its object, 
from 5s. to 12s. annually, and give what dona- 
tions they please, and endeavour to obtain them 
from their friends. 

IV. That the business of this Society be con- 
ducted by Secretaries, and a Committee of ten 
of the District Treasurers, to be chosen annual- 
ly, with power to add to their number ; and 



34 

that the Secretaries be members of the Commit- 
tee in virtue of their office. 

V. That the Committee shall meet once a 
quarter^ or oftener, if necessary, on a day to be 
fixed by themselves: and that there be an An- 
nual Meeting of the Members of this Society, 
when the Accounts shall be presented, the pro- 
ceedings of the last year reported, and the Se- 
cretaries and Committee chosen for the ensuing 
year. 

VI. That this Meeting is persuaded, that the 
progress which has hitherto been made towards 
removing from this Nation the foul reproach 
and deep sin of African slavery, by abolishing 
the detestable traffic in Slaves, is to be ascri- 
bed, in a great measure, to the diffusing through- 
out the Country the knowledge of the real mi- 
series, with which the trade in human beings is 
attended, and to that general sentiment of great 
abhorrence which necessarily followed ; and that 
nothing is more likely to promote the accom- 
plishment of that which yet remains to be done, 
than the continuing to diffuse correct informa- 
tion concerning the present state of Slavery, in 
the British West India Colonies. It is there- 
fore requested, that every Lady attending this 
Meeting, or who shall hereafter become a Mem- 



44 



ber of this Society, may be furnished from time 
to time with Jamaica Gazettes, and Mr. Clark- 
son's Argument, founded on them ; and also 
with other documents which may serve to show 
the evils of Slavery, and the guilt of England 
in continuing a system, the parent of so many 
crimes. 

VII. That some portion of the funds of this 
Society remaining after the payment of its cur- 
rent expences, be placed at the disposal, in the 
first instance, of the Association for the Relief 
of distressed Negroes in Antigua, to benefit and 
console the aged, the sick, the lame, the blindj 
the broken-hearted, and the deranged, amongst 
the deserted Slaves whom no one will own ; 
and for the formation and support of Schools, 
whether for Infants, Children, or Adults ; and 
that the funds of this Society be also employed 
for any other purpose which may best promote 
the happiness and freedom of British Slaves. 

VIII. That this Society do continue its ex- 
ertions for the melioration of the condition of the 
unhappy children of Africa till the time shall 
come, when the lash shall no longer be permit- 
ted to fall on the persons of helpless Female 
Slaves ; when our fellow- creatures shall no lon- 
ger be advertized like beasts for sale, and sold 



45 



like beasts in a West India Slave Market ; and 
when every Negro Mother living under the 
British Dominion, shall press a free-lorn infant 
to her bosom. 

IX. That the Members of this Society be re- 
quested to endeavour to awaken in the minds of 
their Countrywomen, and of all those over whom 
they have any influence, a lively sense of the 
injustice, inhumanity, and impiety, of our pre- 
sent system of Colonial Slavery ; and to excite 
in those, who never yet pitied British Slaves, 
feelings of regret for their past indifference, and 
of compassion towards their fellow-subjects 
whom this country has so long kept in worse 
than Egyptian bondage ; and that they be en- 
treated to adopt every measure in their power, 
for the relief of their degraded fellowrcrea 
tures, the British Slaves ; and that it be one 
of the chief objects of this Society, to strive to 
promote the formation of Ladies' Associations 
for their Relief, in every part of his Majesty's 
Dominions to which their influence may extend. 

X. That the Members of this Society be re- 
quested to bring in the sums they collect, yearly, 
quarterly, or monthly, to one of the District 
Treasurers ; and that they who are wilHng to 
undertake this office, do enter their names and 



46 



residences in a book provided for that purpose ; 
and that if their services be required in the dis- 
trict in which they reside, they shall be supplied 
(on application to the Committee) with authen- 
tic documents, &c. for promoting the objects of 
this Society. 

XI. That this Society, convinced that absti- 
nence from the use of Slave cultivated Sugar is 
one of the best modes to which recourse can be 
had to express its abhorrence of the system of 
Colonial Slavery ; and that the exclusive con- 
sumption of the produce of free labour is the 
most effectual means of annihilating the exist- 
ence of that scourge of humanity, not only in 
our West India Colonies, but also in other parts 
of the world, — earnestly desires, that its Mem- 
bers will endeavour by their influence, as well 
as by their example, to promote the exclusive 
use of the productions of free labour in the 
neighbourhoods in which they reside. 

XII. That, in pursuance of the above Reso- 
lution, the District Treasurers in the following 
places, viz. Birmingham, West Bromwich, Wal- 
sall, and Wednesbury, be requested to call a 
Meeting, in order to divide their respective 
neighbourhoods into Districts, and to appoint 
Collectors and Visitors to each, who shall be 



47 



requested to exert their best endeavours in re- 
commending the use of that Sugar only which 
is known to be raised by the labour of free men. 

XIII. That there be appended to these Re- 
solutions, a brief statement, of the reasons why 
a decreased demand for the produce of Slave 
labour will not be hurtful to the Slave. 

XIV. This Meeting being very apprehensive 
that the Monthly Reporters are much neglect- 
ed,;— wo^ even once attentively perused hy Mem- 
bers of this Society, — earnestly recommend an 
increased regard to these authentic and inter- 
esting sources of information on the subject of 
Slavery. 



N. B. The Depository of the Society is at 
B. and J. Cadbury's, Bull Street, Birmingham, 
where Subscriptions will be received, and the 
documents mentioned in the Sixth Resolution 
furnished for general circulation. 



4S 



A decreased Demand for the Produce of 
SLAVE LABOUR NO INJURY TO THE SLAVE. 

The decreased demand for West India Sugar, 
and its consequent decreased cultivation, would 
tend to encourage the growth of the proper food 
of the Negro British Subject in the Slave Colo- 
nies, and thereby to diminish his fatigues, his 
privations, and his sufferings j and by rapidly 
increasing the Black population, might so re- 
duce the price of Slaves, and facilitate manumis- 
sions, that the Slave system might gradually 
become extinct without violence or commotion ; 
— if the justice of England^ and the patient sub- 
mission of the Slaves, should allow it to exist 
till it died a natural death. 

It is a fact fully and clearly estal)lished, that 
the loss of Slave life in our different Colonies, 
bears a direct proportion to the quantity of su- 
gar which they respectively supply. In the Ba- 
hamas, where no sugar is grown, the Slaves in- 
crease in number, at the rate of upwards of two 
and a half per cent, per annum. The only other 
British Colony in which they increase, is Bar- 
badoes ; and that is the Colony, which (with one 
exception) raises the smallest quantity of sugar 
in proportion to the number of its Slaves. In 
St. Kitt's and Jamaica, where the proportion of 



49 

Sugar is greater than in Barbadoes, the number 
of Slaves is gradually, though slowly decreasing; 
while in St. Vincents, Grenada, Tobago, and 
Deraerara, where the proportion of sugar is the 
largest, the decrease proceeds at a rate, which 
in half a century would unpeople the earth. 

The subsistence of the great majority of the 
Slave population in our West India Colonies is 
provided for, not by any regular allowance of 
food, (with the exception of a few herrings, or 
a little salt fish, merely to serve as a seasoning 
to their yams, and plantains, &c.) but by the al- 
lotment of such a portion of land, and of time, 
as are deemed sufficient to enable them to raise 
provisions for themselves. In what way, then, 
can the reduced demand for the produce of their 
labour, and the consequent reduction of its price 
in the market, be conceived to operate to the 
disadvantage of the Slaves ? Can we suppose, 
that because Sugar and Coffee shall have fallen 
in price, the Planter will therefore prevent his 
Slaves from cultivating their provision grounds 
as formerly, and will oblige them to sit down 
and starve in inaction, during the time the law 
allots them for the raising of food ? Or are we 
to imagine, that the low prices of Sugar and 
Coffee, &c. will make the land less fit than it 
was before to produce the food of the Slaves, or 
the Slaves less capable of tilling it .^ That, when 



60 



prices are high, and sugar-planting gainful, a 
proprietor may be tempted to abridge the time 
and land allowed to his Slaves, in order to en- 
large his crops, is indeed conceivable ; but, it 
is not conceivable that he should do so without 
the remotest prospect of any advantage to him- 
self ; much less, when it would be in manifest 
opposition to his own interest, by lowering the 
condition, and consequently the value of his 
live stock, that is to say, of the human animals 
employed on his estate. 



LIST OF 

SUBSCRIPTIONS, DONATIONS, &c. 

1830. 



Mrs. Allport, Athehstone, 
District Treasurer. 

Donations. Subs. 
£. s. d. £, s. d. 

Anti-slavery Box 3 7 .... 

Friend by Mrs. A 10 

Sale of Articles, £1. 5s. 

BIRMINGHAM. 

Mrs. W. Bullock, and Mrs. D. Ledsam, 

District Treasurers, 



Behean, Mr 

Bridgens, Mrs 

Bickley, Mrs 

Bullock, Mr. W 

Friend .by ditto 

Harding, Mr 

Jackson, Mrs 

Lea, Mrs 

D 



5 
5 



5 







5 
12 
5 



12 



52 



Ledsam, Mrs. . . 
Messenger, Mrs. 
Mogridge, Mrs.. 
Parker, Mrs. . . . 
Price, MfS.. . *. . 
Rushton, Miss . 
Ward, Miss . . . 



Collected by Mrs. Lloyd, Bordesley, 
District Treasurer, 



Donadon.*. 


Sub/*, 


£. s. d. 


£. *. d. 


.... 


12 


.... 


5 




5 


.... 


10 




5 


.... 


5 


Rm-rlpsl< 


4 



Bedford, Mrs. New Street 

Capper, Mrs. Mary, Dale End.. 1 

De Lys, Mrs 

English, Mrs 

Juxon, Miss 

Juxon, Miss L. 

Lloyd, Mrs. James, Bingley .. 

Lloyd, Mrs. Bordesley 

Two small donations by ditto . . 5 

Lloyd, Mrs. Neach Hiil 

Pumphrey, Mrs 

Peart, Mrs 

Rotton, Mr 

Rotton, Mrs 

Rotton, Miss 

Shorthouse, Mrs 

Taylor, Mrs. J as, Moore Green 
Thornton, Mrs. Bradford Street 
Whittingham, Miss, Bellefield 
Contributions from the Young 

Ladies at Bellefield .... 

Received for Articles and Pamphlets £5 



12 



12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





12 





1 1 





12 





,0 12 





1 





9s Od 





53 



Collected by Miss Cadbury, Calthorpe Stieet, 
District Treasurer 





Donations. 


Subs 






£. s. d. 


£. s. 


d. 


Brewin, Miss, Halesowen . . 




12 





Cadbury, Mrs. B H. Bull Street 




12 





Cadbury, Mrs. Calthorpe Street 


.... 


12 





Cadbury's Mrs. Anti-slavery box 


3 


.. .. 




Gem, Mrs. R 




12 





Cropper, Mrs 


. . ^ . 


12 





Hawker, Miss 


.... 


12 





Hudson, Mrs 


.... 


12 





Lawrence, Miss 


.... 


12 





Lawrence, Miss M 




12 





Lee, Mrs 


.... 


12 
12 





Winfield. Miss 






For Anti-slavery Articles £22 8s. 5d, 



Collected by Miss Sturge, Eklgbaston, 
District Treasurer. 

Dickenson, Mrs. Summer Hill.. 

Evans, Miss, Bath Row 

Glover, Mrs » 

Hill, Mrs. Hazlewood House; .. 

Hill, Miss 

Hodson, Mrs, G 

Mansfield^ Miss 

Pearson, Mrs 

Rowlinson, Mrs. Hagley Road. 
Rabone, Mrs. St. Paul's Square 

Sturge, Miss, Edgbaston 

D 2 





12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12< 




12O;0 




12 




12 




12 



54 



Donations. Subs. 
£. s. d, £. s» di 

Collected by the Misses Groom, Five Ways, 

District Treasurers. 

Received for Articles 16s. 2d. 

Miss Bacchus, 
District Treasurer. 

Bacchus, Miss .... o 12 

Rabone, Mrs c 12 

Mrs. Dawes, Leverets, 
District Treasurer. 

Betts, Miss • .... 12 

Betts, MissE 12 

Dawes, Mrs , .... 12 

Dawes, Miss 12 

Deane, Mrs. H. from the Sale of 

Fancy Articles, 2 13 11^ .... 

Fletcher, Mrs 12 

Hammond, Mrs 12 

Mrs. MoiLLiET, Hamstead Hall, 

NEAR Birmingham, 

District Treasurer, 

Bagot, Miss 12 

Bagot's, Miss, Pupils 1 1 6 

Hopkins, Mrs. Stone House, 

Rugeley 12 

Knight, Mrs. Impington Hall, 

Cambridgeshire Q 12 

MoUliet, Mrs .... 12 



55 



Donations. Subs. 

£. s, d. £. 8. d. 

Moilliet, Miss 12 

Contents of Anti-slavery box . . 9 .... 



Mrs. Foster, Bilston, 
District Treasurer. 

Best, Mrs. Edward 

Best, Miss Norris ^ 

Best, Mrs 

Corbet, Mrs <» 

Corbet, Miss 

Corbet, Miss Eliza 

Eagleton, Mrs 

Foster, Mrs . 

Charity box 3 9 

Small Subscriptions by Mrs. 

Foster .« 

Lockley, Mrs 

Lister, Miss 

Mander, Mrs. Elras, Wolver- 
hampton . . . • 

Rowley, Mrs. Wilm 

Smith, Mrs. Bradley 

Taylor, Mr. Montague 

Vernon, Mrs. Morecroft 










8 
12 



8 
10 
6 



12 

6 

6 

8 

6 



Mrs. J. Cash, Coventry, 
District Treasurer, 



Cash, Mrs. J 



Anti- slavery Articles £1 4s. 



12 6 



56. 



Donation*. Subs. 

£, s. tL £. s. d. 
Miss S. Clay, Burton on Trent, 
District Treasurer. 



Bass, Miss 

Bass, Miss S 

Bass, Miss F 

Bailey, Miss 

Bailey, Miss M 

Boden, Miss 5 

Clay, Rev. J 

Clay, Mr. J 

Clay, Miss 

Clay's, Miss, Anti-slavery Box 1 

Holland, Mrs. ("2 years) 

Robinson, Mrs. Worley, (2 years) 

Shore Miss 

Thoraewill, Mrs. R. (2 years) . . 

Wortbington, Mrs 

Worthington, Miss Ann 

Wortbington, Miss R 

Yeomans, Miss 

Anti-slavery Cards, Is 

Mrs. S. Greaves, Canterbury. 
J'istricf Treasurer. 

A . O. Female Servant .... 

Bundock, Mrs .... 

Bartlett, Mrs. Kingston Rectory .... 

Clark, A. Esq 

Gilmau, Mrs 26 

Greaves, Mrs. S » . . . 

Horton, Mrs. Sidney 



12 





12 





12 





12 





12 









12 





12 





12 





10 





1 4 





5 





1 4 





12 





12 





12 





6 


u 



2 


6 


.5 





10 





10 





6 





12 






57 



Donat 
£. s, 

Hagger, Mrs. Ashford 

Jones, Mrs 

Jones, Rev. W. P 

Nickalls, Mrs. Ashford 

Parnell, Mrs 

Powell, Mrs 

Spencer, Mrs 

Two Friends, by S. Ash 

Trumaine, Mr. E 

Vallance, Rev^. H. London 

Wiilyams, Mrs 

Willyams, Miss M. A. (2 years j 

Sale of Articles, £6. 9s 



ions. 
. d. 


Subs. 
£. s. d. 
5 




3 




5 




5 




5 




5 




5 





.... 




5 




5 




10 




10 



'Mrs. E. Abney, Measham Hall, 
District Treasurer. 

Abney, Mrs. E 

Abney, Mrs. W, W. York, per 

Mrs. Walker, Clifton House, 

Rotherhara, Yorkshire 10 

Douglas, Miss, New York, 

America, per Mrs. Walker . . 10 
Newton, Mrs. Barbot Hall, 

Yorkshire, per Mrs. Walker 1 
Sale of Articles, £3. 18s. 6d. 

Misses Fox, Falmouth, 
District Treasurers. 



12 



Their own subscription 

Small Donations 

Roberts, Mij-:s (2 years) 



7 



1 4 



10 



58 



Donations. Sub». 

£. s. d. £, *. d. 
Miss Wainwright, Dudley, 
District Treasurer, 

Dudley,Miss 12 

Gardner, Mrs ,. 12 

Gordon, Mrs .... 12 

Wainwright, Mr 10 

Wainwright, Miss 12 

Williams, Mr. J 10 6 

Anti-slavery box 5 .... 

Sale of Articles, 6s 6d. 

Mrs. Moorsom, Selaby Hall, Darlington, 
District Treasurer. 

Maude, Mrs. Newport Pagnell. .110 .... 

Miller, Mrs. ditto 5 

Moorsom, Mrs 12 

Ditto, by small donations .... 6 3 .... 

Ditto, ditto 10 6 

Osborne, Mrs 5 

Redden, Mrs 5 

Rogers, Mrs 2 6 .... 

Smith, Miss 2 6 

Ward,Mrs .... 5 

Mrs. Heyrick and Miss Watts, 

District Treasurers 

List of Subscribers to the Leicester Anti-Slavery 

Society in 1830. 

Allen, Mrs. Thurmaston 5 

Babington, Mrs.Rotbley Temple 

(forl827} 2 10 



59 



Donations. finbs. 
£. s. d, £, s. d. 

Babington, Mrs. Matt. Rothley 10 5 

Babington,Miss,RothleyTemple .... 5 

Backart, Mrs. F. Leicester 5 

Bolton, Miss, Ditto 5 o 

Bolton, Miss, her Young Ladies 15 .... 

Burgess, Miss Maria, Wigston 

Grange 5 

Burgess, Miss Eliza, Ditto 5 

Burgess, Miss Hannah, Grooby 
Lodge 

Burgess, Mrs. Thomas, Leicester 

Brown, Mrs. Suffield, Cold Ov- 
erton 

Beasley, Miss, Thorp 

Boyer, Mrs. Skeffington 

Brown, Mary, ( Miss Watts' 

servant) 

Clarke, Mrs. Paris 10 

Coltman, Mrs. Elizabeth, Lei- 
cester, (for 1827) 1 

Coltman, Mr. Samuel, Ditto 

Coltman, Miss Ann, Ditto .... .... 

Coleman, Mrs. Henry, Ditto .. .... 

Cockshaw, Mrs. Albert, Ditto .... 

Dawson, Mrs, Watton House, 

(for 1827) 1 

Dalby, Mrs. Castle Donington, 

(for 1827) 5 5 

Evans, Mrs. Leicester .... 5 

Ellis, Mrs. Beaumont Leys 5 

Frewen, Miss, Cld Overton Hall .... 10 

Frewen, Miss, (friend by) .... I . ; . . 

Foster, Mrs. Leicester .5 



3 



5 

5 

5 

5 

5 



60 





Donatioas. 




Subj 


• 




£ 


. s 


d. 


£. 


t. 


d. 


Heyrick, Mrs. Leicester, for 














(1827) 


1 











10 





Heyrick, Mrs. William, Thur- 














maston Lodge, (for 1827) .. 


1 











5 





Hodgson, Mrs. Thurnby House, 














(for 1827) 





10 








5 





Hutchenson, Miss, Leicester .. 






. 





5 





Kershan, Mrs. Danet's Hall .... 






. 





5 





Mansfield, Mrs. Leicester 






. 





5 





NormoD, Rt. Hon, T<ady Eliza- 














beth, Melton, (for 1827).... 


1 











5 





Noble, Mrs. Danet's Hall .... 






. 





5 





Nunnely, Mrs. Leicester 











6 





Pares, Mrs. Thomas, Frith Hall 








1 








Phillips, Miss, Garringdon Park 






. 


1 








Phillips, Miss, friend by 


1 








. 






Pochin, Mrs. Barkby Hall, (for 














1827) 


2 











10 





Paget, Miss, Leicester c . . 











5 





Potter, Miss Elizabeth, Ditto. . 











5 





Rose, Mrs. Rothley Vicarage . . 











5 





Ranyard, ' Mrs. Leicester 











5 





Rawson, Mrs. William, Ditto. . 











5 





Ryley, Miss, Ditto 











5 





Simpson, Mrs. Finch, Laund 














Abbey, (for 1827) 


1 








, 


. .. 




Simpson, Miss, (for 1827) 


1 








, 


. .. 




Shenton, Mrs. Joshua, Leicester 




. . . 







5 





Simkira, Mrs. Thurraaston .... 




.. . 


, 





5 





Smith, Mrs. Lorain, Leicester. . 


1 








, 


• • . 




Turner, Mrs. Frevven, Cold Ov- 














erton Hall , 


5 








1 

• 








Vann, Mrs. Eelgrav€, (for 1827) 





61 

Donations. 8ubs. 

£, s. d. £. s. d. 

Watts, Miss, Leicester 5 

Webb, Mrs. Ditto 5 

Mrs. Goe, Louth, 
District Treasurer. 

AHenby, Mrs. H. R 5 

Allison, Miss 5 

Goe. Mr. F. F 10 

Goe, Mrs 12 

Collecting box 6 

Langhorn, Miss, Alford, collec- 
ted by 2 8 4 1 14 8 

Sale of Articles, £2 2s. 6d. 

Mrs. Keal, 
District Treasurer ^ for Birmingham y &c. 

A Statement of Subscriptions and Contributions 

TO THE 

OAKHAM LADIES* ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

1829. 

PRESIDENT, 

Mrs. Frewen Turner. 

VICE PRESIDENTS. 

Mrs. Clarke and Miss Watts. 

Treasurer, Mrs. Keal. — Secretary, Miss Adcock, 

Burgess, Mrs. Ridlington Park .... 5 

Burgess, Miss, ditto .... 5 

Bullivent, Mrs.' 5 

Clarke, Mrs 5 

Cook, Mrs , 5 

d2 



e2 



Donations. Subs. 

£. *. d, £. s. d. 

Doncaster, Mrs 12 

Forster, Mrs 5 

Gillson, Mrs. Hambleton 5 

Hawley, Miss 10 

Hawley, Mrs..... 5 

Hicks, Miss 5 

Jones, Miss 5 

Keal, Mrs 10 

Lowth, Mrs 5 9 

Pettenger, Miss , 5 

Royce, Mrs 5 

Scott, Mis 5 

Watts, Miss 5 

Frewen Turner, Mrs. 10 .... 

Frewen, Miss 5 .... 

Godfrey, Miss, Belton 3 .... 

By Friends. 2 6 .... 

Sale of Articles £6 lis. 
Profit on Articles 14s. 5d. 

Mrs. J. H. Townsend, Marazion, Cornwall, 
District Treasurer, 

Allen, Miss, St. Just 10 .... 

Borham, T. F. Esq 10 6 .... 

Potts, Miss 1 6 .... 

Richards, Miss 3 

Richards, Miss J 3 

Townsend, Mrs. J. H 1 .... 

Ditto, from the sale of her own 

Drawings, and presented to 

the Society 5 12 .... 

Sale of Articles^ £3 18s. 6d. 



63 



Donations. Subs. 

£. s. d. £. s. di 
Mrs, Hill, Oxford, 

District Treasurer. 

Colllngwood, Mrs 12 

Davenport, Mrs 12 

Hicks, Mrs 12 

Hill, Mrs .... 12 

Loch,MissM 12 

Meredith, Rev. Mr. Hagbourne 8 .... 

Pearce, Mrs 12 

Pike, Mrs 12 

Smith, Mr 8 

Williamson, Mrs 12 

Weston, Mrs 12 

P.B.P 3 

Produce of Mrs. Hill's Collect- 
ing box 8 8 .... 

• Sale of Articles, £1 15s. 4d. 
Profit on China IGs. 

Miss Cook, Ross, 
District Treasurer, 

Cook, Miss 12 

Langston, Miss E. R 12 

Friend, by ditto 10 .... 

Webb, Mrs. Alton Cottage ... . 026 .... 
Anti-slavery Articles, by Miss Langston, £7, 8s. 

Mrs, Clark, Southampton, 
District Treasurer. 

Cash, £3 10s. 9d. 
V The particulars not sent. 



64 



Donations. Siib«. 
£. s. d. £, s, d. 
Misses Riland, Sutton Coldfield, 

District Treasurers^ 

Bracken, Misses , 12 

Perkins, Miss 12 

Riland, Misses 5 2 2 

Collected by Misses Riland .. 8 .... 

Fowler, Mrs. W. Birches Green .... 12 

Miss Wedgwood, 
District Treasurer, 

Clarke, Rev. H. Harmston .... 1 .... 
Wayland, Mrs. Bassingham. ... 1 .... 

Wedgewood, Miss, (2 years) 14 

Sale of Articles, £2. 9s. 6d. 

Miss Ann Foster, 
District Treasurer* 

Smith, Mrs. family of little chil- 
dren 1 

For Articles, 10s. 6d. 

Mrs. R. Howard, and Mrs. J. Hodgson, 
District Treasurers. 

Anti-slavery box 3 6 .... 

For Articles, £4 17s. 

Mrs Russel, Bescot Hall, nearWalsall, 

District Treasurer. 

Barker, Mrs. Vaughn, Broom 
Hill Lodge, (2 year&) 1 4 



65 



Cotterall, Mr. C. F 

Forster, Mrs 

Forster, Mrs. C. (2 years) .... 
Forster, Mr. John, (Ditto) .... 

Mills, Mrs. (Ditto) 

Russel, Mrs 

Russel, Miss 

Russel, Miss Jane, contributions 

by 

Windlc, Mrs. A. S. box 



Donations. 


Subs. 


£. *. d. 


£. s. d. 




12 




12 fi 




1 4 6 




2 1 




1 4 




12 




12 


9 




3 6 


.... 



Misses Smith, West Bromwich, 
District Treasitrers* 

Donations 17 6 

Hill, Mr 

Smith, Mrs 

WagstafF, Mrs 

Sale of Articles, 8s. 
Ditto, by Miss R. Smith, 17s. 



12 
12 
12 



Mrs. Hood and Mrs. Harper, West Bromwich, 
District Treasurers. 



Bullock, Mrs. E. .. 

Bagnall, Mr. T 

Guest, Mr 

Ford, Mrs 

Gilbert, Mrs 

Horton, Mrs. Isaac 

Hartland, Mr 

Hood, Mr 

Hood, Mrs 






12 








12 








12 








12 








12 








12 








5 





1 





e 


12 






66 



Haynes, Mrs. B. 
Holden, Mrs .. ., 
Hepburn, Mrs. J. 

Harper, Mrs 

Jesson, Miss .. .. 

Jesse, Mrs , 

Nock, Mrs 

Parker, Miss . . . , 
Whyley, Mrs. . . 



Donation5. 


Subs. 


£. s. d. 


£. s. d. 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




12 




1 



Mrs. Jesse, West Bromwich, 
District Treasurer. 



A Friend to the Society 



2 



Mrs. Townsend, West Bromwichj 
District Treasurer, 

Bracebridge, Charles Holt, Esq. 5 

Bond, Mr 

Benwell, Miss, Bay's Hill Lodge, 

Cheltenham 1 

Bond, Miss 

Friend, by Mrs, Greaves 10 

Gay, Mrs. Titherton, Wilts , . 

Hawes, Mrs. Brighton, (2 years} .... 
Hasluck, Mrs. Charlemont Hall, 

(2 years) 

Holden, Mrs 

Jesson, Miss 1 

Marsh, Mr. J... 

Sylvester, Mrs 



5 



5 



2 





2 





1 4 





12 





5 





12 






67 



Donations. 
£. *. d. 







1 

4*d. 



Thomas, Mrs. Pentonville 

Townsend, Mrs 1 

Friend by Ditto 

Weyland, Mrs. Woodrising, 

Norfolk 5 

Wright, Miss and Master, for 

Negro Infant School 

Sale of Articles, £19. 5s 

Mrs. S. Lloyd, Jun. Wednesbury, 
District Tt easier er^ and Secretary. 

Adams, Mrs 

Crowther, John Esq 

Clarkson, Mrs 

Crippiu, Mrs 

Constable, Mr 

Danks, Miss 

Frost, Mrs 

Jones, Mrs 

Hughes, Mrs 

Loxton, Mrs 

Friend, by ditto 

Price, J. T. (2 years) 

Stokes, Mr. W ., 

Wright, Mrs 

V/ilks, Miss 

Lloyd, Mrs. S 

Sale of Articles, (^s 
Ditto by the late Miss Forster, V\'^alsall, 

Mrs. Riland, Yoxall, 
District Treasurer' 
Arden, Mrs, Longcrofts Hall 



Subs. 
£. s. d. 
1 
12 








5 







12 







5 







5 







5 







5 







5 







12 







5 







10 







2 6 




1 


4 







5 







12 





5 







12 



18s. 6d. 



12 



68{ 



Donations. Subs. 

£. s, d. £. s. d. 

Ar den, Miss, ditto 5 

Bott, Mrs. Coton Hall 12 

Bird, W. G. Esq, Lichfield 012 

Blair, Mrs. Uttoxeter 12 

Blagg, Mrs. ditto 5 

Epworth, Miss, Lichfield 5 

Evans, Mrs. Edenhall 12 

Fell, Mrs. W. W. Barton 12 

Freeman, Mrs. Tamworth 12 

A Friend 10 

Fell, Miss, Warwick 10 

Hainzlemain, Miss, Uttoxeter.. .... 5 

Howe, Miss, ditto .... 5 

Hixon, Miss, Wicknor. .<, 5 

Mills, Miss, Stowe Hill 10 

Mills, Mrs. Uttoxeter 10 

Ram, Mrs. Colwich 10 

Riland, Mrs. Yoxall 

Riland, Rer. John, ditto .... 

Stubbs, Mrs. Uttoxeter 

Stretton, Miss, Wicknor 

Wyatt, Mrs. Harvey, Barton 12 

A Little Boy 1 

Riland's Mrs. Anti-slavery Box 10 4 .... 

Mrs. Ward, Newport Pagnall, 
District Treasurer. 

Mrs, Ward's Young Ladies. .. . 16 ... 
Sale of Articles £6 18s, 6d. 
Ditto, from Mrs. Moorsom, £2 12. 3d. 



12 





12 





12 





5 






Anti-Slavery China may he purchased, at 
prime cost, of Sarah Bedford and Son, China 
Rooms, Neio Sti^eet, Birmingham ; and Associa- 
tions and District Treasurers can have any 
quantity by writing to Herbert Minton, China 
Manufacturer, Potteries, Staffordshire^ 



page. 




*. 


d. 


£. s. d. 


54 Mrs. Fletcher, instead 


of 


12 


read 


1 4 


56 Mrs. Thomewill, 


1 


4 


— 


10 


57 Sale of Articles, 


6 


9 


— 


6 19 







7 


— 


7 







12 


— 


5 


63 Mr. Smith, 





8 


— 


12 



[For Cash Account, see other side. 



5 *- . c;,— -^ 
^ o § « S 'S 






J3 <v 

<: o 



a> o 



i*H o H 

CO o 
O bo flj 



S3c^ 






S « = 



^ o 

^3 in 
ci c 






• -s ■S c« 

. cS O 

• '^ ^ 2 



; > .H rt ; . i 



« r« ro ^ 



: ^ >, ^ r§ 
<" "1^ O O rt 

£3 S w -G M 






bc.S 



,^OCO'-<00©<0«£)Ot>.000«00 
1—1 ^-< 



-H O CO "* 



- S 

o bo 
o a 



_ p2 



J^ \xa 



'2 o o _^ 
'es ,is '" ■" '^ 



■^ o ^ oo o ja 
S d o '§ -g 



t: '2 ^ 



o o 



ea cQ oQ ea u u Q Q tu. ffl ^^ ,^ ,:} S 



f-l <N VC (N •^ 



-il l< s-^ 

c« cc q:; ^ ^ 



o .S 'G -S 



o 5 



o 


«o 


o 


^ 


to 


?o 


en 


o 


o 


o 


<o 


<o 


-4' 


O 


Sr 


o 


>-< 


o 


(M 


00 


"* 


o 


^o 


CTi 


t- 


lO 


CO 


«5 


CTi 


•* 


tN. 


CO 


a> 


■^ 


if5 


c<» 


CO 


a> 


CO 


CO 


ys 


iO 


(N 


O 


en. 



■^ s 



V pH 



2 2 
S O 
^ o 



^Z, 



^ 3 -a CO t3 2 ^ 
O O e^ P5 c« c/3 ^ 



:$ > 



