PROPERTY 



.•rt.U > 



FTHE ^£\^$ 







THE 

WEST INDIA QUESTION. 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION 

WOULD BE 

SAFE FOR THE MASTERS;— PROFITABLE FOR THE MASTERS;— 
HAPPY FOR THE SLAVES;— RIGHT IN THE GOVERNMENT;— 

ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE NATION ; WOULD INTERFERE 

WITH NO FEELINGS BUT SUCH AS ARE DISGRACEFUL AND 
DESTRUCTIVE;— CANNOT BE POSTPONED WITHOUT CONTIN- 
UALLY INCREASING DANGER. 

AN OUTLINE FOR IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION; 
AND 

REMARKS ON COMPENSATION, 

BY CHARLES STUART. 



REPRINTED FROM 

THE (Eng.) QUARTERLY MAGAZINE AND REVIEW, OF APRIL, 1832. 




" Am I not a woman and a sister?' 



NEW HAVEN: 

HEZEKIAH HOWE & €0 



1833. 



Printed by Hezekiah Howe & Co. 



THE WEST INDIA QUESTION. 



Great Britain rather totters than stands on a pinnacle — her 
crimes are gnawing at her heart — every one that loves her, trembles 
for her safety, and anxiously enquires into the causes of her danger. 

It is the object of the following pages to point out one of those 
causes — a master cause — and to suggest its remedy. Should the 
writer appear severe, let it be remembered, that no disorder of any 
magnitude, whether physical or moral, can be removed by lenitives. 
The medical poison must -be given at once; the limb must be am- 
putated; the lust must be crucified while it is not yet too late, or the 
patient perishes. The writer disclaims entirely, all intention of 
giving offense. It is the extinction of crime, not the injury of crimi- 
nals, which he seeks; and he speaks boldly of criminals, that their 
iniquity may not prove their own and their country's ruin. 

The case to which he alludes is Negro Slavery. As a political 
evil he meddles not with it; but as a moral crime, it is a common 
nuisance, and fills him with horror and alarm. He finds it an in- 
fraction of all righteous law. He sees that it is the bane of all true 
love ; an act of high-treason against God : and an outrage, concen- 
trating in itself all outrages, against man. He cannot believe the 
Bible without being persuaded, that the fiercest vengeance of Al- 
mighty God, the moral and righteous ruler of the universe, is waxing 
hotter and hotter against us every moment that we persist in it. He 
knows that amongst the actual possessors and managers of Negro 
Slave property, there are some of the most honorable men in the 
nation; men who in other respects are examples of excellent and 
noble things; but he cannot forget that He who said, "Do not com- 
mit adultery," said also, "Let the oppressed go free." "Thou shalt 
love thy neighbor as thyself." "He that loveth not his brother 
abideth in death." "For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and 
yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all." And he therefore can- 
not permit himself to be blinded by the glare, however bright, of 
partial obedience : a whole heart, a brotherly heart, is what God re- 
quires; the undissembling voice of which shall be, "Glory to God 
in the highest, aud on earth, peace, good-will to man," withuot re- 
spect of persons; and not a heart yielded merely so far as may 
be sanctioned by convenience, or interest, or prejudice ; or what 
men call prudence and benevolence, when they substitute this world's 
wisdom, for cordial and confiding obedience. In the course of the 
following observations, where things apparently harsh shall be found, 
let them apply only where they fit ; but where they do fit, the writer 
entreats the persons in question, whoever they be, to remember, that 



" the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness 
and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness," 
and to believe, that as far as he knows himself, this is his motive for 
writing as he does : not to judge, but to warn ; not as desiring to de- 
stroy, but as wishing to be an instrument of salvation. 

The subject, is Negro Slavery as it exists under British power ' 
And the question, is how may it be remedied? 

The Negro Slave party, that is, they who are interested, from 
whatever motives, in the continuance of Negro Slavery, honorable 
wealthy, talented and united, declare that immediate abolition is 
forbidden by self-presevation ; regard for the negroes; rights of the 
masters; pledges of goverment; and national interests. And another 
reason, not much avowed, but well understood, and of all others 
the most deeply felt by the great body of managers and of resident 
proprietors, is the fear of losing that endless variety of gratifications, 
which the possession of despotic power affords. But of all, few or 
none under the British empire, pretend at this day, that Negro 
Slavery should be interminable. All agree that it ought to be even- 
tually abolished ; but they require time, in order to avert the dangers, 
which they anticipate from so a great and sudden a change as imme- 
diate emancipation would produce. Now if it can be clearly shewn, 
that these objections have no force, either in nature or in fact; that 
the immediate emancipation of the negroes, is the best way to give the 
masters security, and the negroes happiness; to absolve the duty of 
the government, and to support or improve the colonial and national 
revenues: and if it can be further shewn, that delay is a cruel and 
dangerous delusion : and that the licentious gratifications of despotic 
power, dear though they be to the sinner, as a hand or an eye, are 
altogether ruinous and degrading : the difficulties which are neaped 
like mountains in the way of duty, will be removed, and unless 
rottenness have altogether gotten hold of us, we shall open our eyes 
and see how safe, and only safe it is, to obey God and let the op- 
pressed go free. 

Can such proofs be supplied; or where are they? 

I propose briefly exhibiting them under the following heads, by 
shewing that the immediate emancipation of the negroes — 

1st. Would be safe and profitable for the masters. 

2nd. Would be happy for the negroes. 

3rd. Would be right in the government. 

4th. Would be advantageous to the nation. 

5th. Would interfere with no passions but such as are disgraceful 
and destructive; and 

6th. Cannot be postponed without great danger. 

But two things must be premised; viz: 

I. The real condition of the enslaved negroes in the British Colo- 
nies ; and 

II. What we mean by immediate emancipation. 



1st. The real condition of the enslaved negroes in the British 
Slave Colonies. 

Each estate is a little despotism : the master may imprison,* 
flog, torture, sell and seperate his slaves, under certain limitations 
essentially more or less inefficient, at his discretion. He gives them 
no wages; merely supporting them as beasts are supported. He 
may impose upon them, at all times, an overwhelming amount of 
labor; and this is left particularly to his own ungoverned discretion, 
during the season of crop, or for about four months in each year. 
His slaves may be seized and sold without any fault, or imputation 
of a fault, for their master's debts. They can be mortgaged like 
goods and chattels ; and the greater number of them could not obtain 
their liberty, though thousands were offered to redeem them, except 
their masters pleased. When they come or are brought to England, 
they are free while in England ; but should they return to their na- 
tive country, they are again made slaves. This is their general con- 
dition. Kind masters alleviate it; but it is generally aggravated by 
unkindness; and where sugar is cultivated, this aggravation is so 
severe, as to eventuate yearly in the slaughter of thousands of them, 
by the most lingering and painful deaths. f 

But who are these slaves? Or of what enormous transgressions 
have they been guilty, that they should thus be consigned to a state 
of such hopeless and consuming oppression? Where is the record 
of their crimes and condemnation ? Who were their judges ? By what 
special commission were they tried? 

They are British subjects. The great body of them were born 
within the king's allegiance, and have never forfeited his protection 
by any crime. They were never condemned ; never tried ; never 
accused. They are unoffending British subjects, with the same 
rights to the king's protection which any other British subject has; — 
endowed with property in their own bodies by their Maker, and in- 
heriting a right to the King's protection, by having been born within his 
allegiance. They are slaves merely because they are in the hands 
of their enemies, who are stronger than they; and because their king 
and their country, who are bound by the most sacred ties to do them 
right, still choose to crouch beneath the pride and wickedness of 
their oppressors, and, with God's judgments ringing a thunder alarum 
through the world, to leave his poor to be destroyed. 

2ndly. What do we mean by immediate emancipation? 

We mean, immediately to treat the unoffending negroes in their 
true character, as guiltless British subjects; to give them the pro- 



* See Jamaica Slave Law of 1831. Regulations for Crown Colonies of 1831. 
Nine Letters to the Duke of Wellington, by Ignotus. J. Jeremie's Four Essays. 
James Stephen's 2 volumes. Jamaica Christian Record. Colonial Gazettes, and 
Parliamentary Papers. 

1 See Population Returns, as quoted from Parliamentary papers in the House of 
Commons, by Brougham and Buxton. 



lection of the law, until they shall have been guilty of some crime, 
and have been fairly tried by a jury of their peers, and found guilty ; 
to pay them fair wages for their labor; and to leave them to enjoy 
the fruits of their industry with their families. In short, we mean, 
immediately to make them the subjects of wise and righteous laws, 
instead of leaving them the slaves of private and irresponsible caprice. 
The following extract from J. Jeremie's work on Colonial Slavery, 
will fairly introduce our subject. 

"Hitherto nothing had been done at St. Lucia, either legally or prac- 
tically. General Mainwaring had, it is true, advised the planters to 
make an experiment, in July 1823, immediately on his receiving the 
original resolutions of the House of Commons ; but this attempt, if 
entered on by some, was soon universally discontinued. The first 
draft of the slave law was completed at the close of the year 1825, 
when he had been nearly twelve months in the colony, and had had, 
as conceived, the best opportunities of forming a judgment. He had 
taken the most respectable colonial information, had made a tour of 
the island that he might ascertain, de visu, what was the actual condi- 
tion of the slaves, and had revised carefully every enactment which 
appeared in the books of the colony. 

" The opinion thus formed by himself amounted to this, that he 
conceived what had been alleged, of the general cruelties of slavery, 
was a downright misrepresentation ; and this opinion was laid upon 
the tables of parliament in the subsequent year. — But hitherto the 
slave had not enjoyed the liberty of freely communicating with his 
protectors ; he had not enjoyed those important rights which rendered 
him in any degree independent of his manager. 

" Scarcely was this opinion transmitted, and the new slave law pro- 
mulgated, than a negro came before him with a collar rivetted round 
his neck, from which projected three prongs of about ten inches each 
in length, and at the end of each of those prongs were inserted three 
smaller ones about an inch long, and these were attached to a chain, 
reaching to fetters joining round his ancles. His back and limbs were 
wealed from neck to foot, and he declared that this collar was kept 
on him by day and by night ; that he worked with it in the field ; 
and on his return was immured in a solitary cell; and that this course 
had been practised for some months in order to prevent his running 
away, the crime for which he was principally charged. This might 
however be a solitary instance. 

" A commission of three gentleman of reputed humanity, namely, 
an officer holding the situation of Procureur du Roi, or official protec- 
tor of slaves, together with the commandant of the quarter in which 
the plantation was situated, and the commandant of the neighboring 
quarter, were sent out to investigate the affair. These gentlemen re- 
turned with a written report, wherein not a word of the Negro's state- 
ment was shaken. They admitted that there were three other men, 
at the time, on the estate, with collars of the same description, and 
that those collars were in use in the country. 

" The Procureur du Roi added, that the collars in use were not quite 
so heavy ; but the commissioners, apparently with a view of settling 



that point, had weighed the collar, and affirmed that it was heavier 
than usual. The report also stated, that there was a woman covered 
with sores, who was found in chains, and had been so chained for 
near two years ; aud yet the commissioners reported that the estate 
was well managed, and that the arrangements were good ! — This was 
not a remote period, but in the year 1826. 

"As may be supposed, the report was not satisfactory to others, as 
to those gentlemen. But no sooner was it known that the law was to 
be rigorously adhered to than reports of insubordination among the 
Negroes, and of the necessity of a militia, or some other armed protec- 
ting force to keep them in order, were universally circulated ; all 
which not only surprised me but was at that time incomprehensible. A 
proclamation was however issued against these collars. What follow- 
ed ? Scarcely two months afterwards, other reports were spread of 
discontent and actual mutiny of so serious a nature having broken out 
on the same estate, that the principal officers of goverment were 
directed to investigate the matter anew. The result was, that in lieu 
of the collar, the following punishments had been used. The women 
were hung by the arms to a peg, raised so high above their heads that 
the toes alone touched the ground, the whole weight of the body res- 
ting on the wrist of the arms, or the tip of the toes. The report of 
a mutiny was mere invention. 

" This torture was also put down, one of the offenders fined, and the 
other imprisoned. But what was the third expedient adopted ? The 
field-stocks, — an invention forwarded from Trinidad, and which was 
actually legalized by the regulations drawn up by myself — so little 
aware was I of the severity of the punishment ; indeed my attention 
was drawn to it by a planter himself. The field-stocks are in short, or 
at least may be rendered, nothing less than the most cruel picketing. 
They are in the shape of a pillory, the hands of the slave are 
inserted in grooves, which may be raised to any height above the 
head, and the feet are inserted in other grooves at the bottom of 
the instrument, the toes alone being made to touch the ground ; 
the body is thus suspended in mid-air, its whole weight resting on 
the wrist and toes." 

And it was in view of these facts, not as solitary cases, but as ex- 
hibiting a fair, general character of the natural outworkings of Negro 
Slavery, that J. Jeremie, in alluding to the proceedings at an Anti- 
Slavery Meeting which he had attended just before he left England, 
says, " On reading over these proceedings now, it is singular how 
altered they appear to my mind. With the experience I have since 
had of Slavery, there is not a sentiment I could not now adopt." 

J. Jeremie's work presents as luminous and fair a picture of the 
subject as could be drawn. Every person who would know what 
Negro Slavery actually is, should read it. 

And now for our argument. 

I. The immediate emancipation of the negroes, would be safe and 
'profitable for the masters. 

First. — It would be safe. We will take Jamaica for an example. 



What is the question? — It is to cease immediately from giving 
six-seventh's of the whole population, all the reasons which can be 
given them, to hate us and to destroy us if they could. It is immedi- 
ately to give them all the reasons in our power to give them, to re- 
spect and love us. It is immediately to cease from keeping their 
interests and our interests at drawn daggers. It is immediately to 
make our interests and their interests one. Acting as we do at 
present, we expect safety while we are incessantly goading them to 
despair and revenge ! ! and we fear revenge and hatred if we should 
give them cause for love ! ! But the righted and the cherished man, 
as a general rule is always safer than the wronged and insulted one. 
By restoring them to their unforfeited rights as subjects, instead of 
leaving them the slaves of the petty tyrants of the plantations, our 
physical force would be increased — our wisdom, to provide and 
our power to coerce would remain the same. And it is entirely out of 
rational belief, that the same power and wisdom, which are sufficient 
to keep them in order uuder the most deadly provocations, should not 
be able to keep them in order, under the wise and vigorous sway of 
righteousness and love. When does a man begin to hate you? 
When you wrong him surely — not when you right him ! How long 
will a man continue to hate you? As long as you continue, to pro- 
voke him to do so by continuing to wrong him ! How may you get 
his love? By repenting before God and humbling yourself before 
your brother — by " ceasing to do evil and learning to do well." This 
is the whole secret — God has taught it to us. The history of the 
world is full of illustrations of its healing excellence. The only 
difficulty is with the wrong doer. He hates the safe and pleasant 
path of cordial obedianee ; he sees a lion in the way, where there 
is none ; he rushes into all forbidden paths to avoid the monster 
which he has imagined, and then wonders, like an idiot, at the ruin 
with which he finds himself surrounded ; or like a fiend, he turns 
upon those who have fearlessly in love, done all they could to pre- 
serve him, and blames them for what he himself has wrought. The 
history of the negroes is replete with evidence of their sense of 
wrong, and of the power of kindness over their minds. Here is an 
instance. 

"In 1794, the negroes in Gaudaloupe, were proclaimed the subjects of 
law, and were freed from the tyranny of caprice. At the moment, a 
French gentleman was lying in prison, his four hundred negroes came 
in a body to the prison in which he was confined, and obtained leave 
to speak to him. — ' Massa,' they said, ' they tell us we free now ; we no 
understand dat ; we no know dem massa, but we know you ; you 
always kind to us; we come ask you, massa; you tell us, what we do.' " 

Other views concur in proving the safety of the measure in question. 
Indecision in right, is nearly as ruinous as decision in wrong ; it blights 
whatever it touches. In the case before us, the government is per- 
plexed with all its difficulties ; the nation is increasingly dissatisfied, 



while their unoffending fellow subjects are perishing unredressed, 
The slave-master is confounded by it in every speculation ; enter- 
prise withers; credit fails, or is obtained at a ruinous premium. The 
oppressed negroes are now buoyed up by hope : again, they are goad- 
ed to madness and despair; meanwhile, with the progress of knowl- 
edge, they are unavoidably becoming more and more acquainted with 
their rights as British subjects, equally entitled with their masters to 
the King's protection ; they are continually gaining new force (as far 
as the cultivation of sugar does not kill them off) to vindicate what 
every British spirit would die rather than relinquish. And the wrath 
of God is waxing hotter and hotter against us, while we hug the en- 
tanglements of our wickedness, and refuse the path of duty, which 
would at once disenthral us, by obeying God and letting our oppressed 
brethren go free. 

Three possibilities only exist of preventing the slaves from vin- 
dicating their rights, if we do not emancipate them ere it be too late. 

1st. Encouraging and increasing the cultivation of sugar, so as to 
increase the annual slaughter of which we are already guilty, and 
thus eventually to exterminate them entirely ! 

2nd. The shutting out of knowledge from them altogether. 

3rd. The general establishment of the christian spirit in its sweetest, 
gentlest, meekest form. 

The first of these, that is their destruction by sugar, is in opera- 
tion; it is reeking with the blood of hundreds of thousands already 
slaughtered, and is clamorous for aid to complete its work of death. 
Consumers of slave sugar, look to it well; you will want a good an- 
swer at the day of judgment. 

The second, that is keeping them in ignorance, we have passed 
by and cannot return to it. Knowledge is abroad; it is spreading, 
and will spread ; it is searching out the lies of ages, and exposing 
and overturning them ; and nothing but the truth in love is capable of 
arresting its surges, and of confining them to limits of order and hap- 
piness. Seek to circumscribe it by other means, and you only dam 
up the flood, that with a deeper and mightier swell it may presently 
roll over you, and bury you with your puny barriers in a deeper 
ruin. 

The third, that is the attainment of the christian spirit, is depen- 
dent upon a mightier energy than man's ; and even when men seek 
it, they so mar and hinder the object of their own pursuit, by their 
own discrepances, that for one christian spirit which they gain of 
the meek and lowly order above-mentioned, they gain a thousand 
warlike christains, who like the pious officers of our army and navy, 
at once draw the sword of flesh in the battles of this world, and the 
sword of the spirit in the battles of a better. As far indeed, as 
Christianity of the meeker stamp is obtained, security is obtained 
against resistance by the sword. But christians of this holy order, 
above all others, have learnt to obey God rather than man, and when 

2 



10 

called upon for unlawful labor, or when enticed to sinful gratifica- 
tions, they are they who would first die. 

The great body of Christians, however, are plainly warrior minds; 
and while Great Britain keeps a single soldier without forfeiting the 
claim to Christianity, it would be the mere hypocrisy of pride, to ac- 
cuse the poor negro of abandoning his Savior, because in a far more 
urgent and sacred cause, he wielded the same weapon in vindication 
of rights which he has never forfeited, and which are the dearest 
and most sacred that belong to earth. 

The Colonists in America, feared, despised and oppressed the na- 
tives ; the natives, a proud and revengeful people, greedily returned 
wrong for wrong. Each side contended for the mastery by evil 
doing ; they waded in each other's blood, and of course, the weak- 
est fell. The history is fraught with horror, but amidst its darkness, 
one bright gleam appears ; a single colony, without forts, without 
soldiers, without arms, plunged into the midst of the savages, lived 
amidst them, traded with them, and was safe. Blood flowed around, 
but in Pennsylvania all was peace. And why ? Why because the 
settlers in Pennsylvania contended with God's arms with the weap- 
ons of truth, and equity, and love, and found them mighty, as they 
ever are when faithfully wielded. They overcame evil with good; 
they treated men as brethren, and found a brother's heart, even in 
the wild warrior's bosom ; and why not we, in the kind African's ? 
The whole history Of the negro proves, that it is next to impossible 
to goad him to revenge ; and that nothing is easier than to win his 
affections. 

But secondly, the immediate emancipation of the negroes, would 
be profitable to the masters. Slavery is in its own nature a state of 
degradation. The degree of the evil may be mitigated, but the ex- 
tinction of slavery can alone fully remedy it. This disgrace una- 
voidably goes over to the labor in which slaves are employed, wher- 
ever, as in the West Indies, the slaves form a majority of the whole 
population ; and the necessary result of this is, that the free people 
that spurn such labor : mitigate the crime as you will, that disgrace and 
spurning remain; but abolish slavery, and at once the obloquy which 
attached to their labor, because it was the labor of slaves, is remov- 
ed ; and those thousands of the same color already free, whose cir- 
cumstances imperiously need such work, and who are well disposed 
to labor, but who prefer every suffering to disgrace, will add to 
your productive force in the cultivation of the soil. 

The gradual system essentially involves increasing facilities of 
emancipation ; with these facilities the number of free colored peo- 
ple must necessarily increase, and the natural increase of the slaves, 
obtained by the mitigated wretchedness of their condition, would be 
proportionably kept down. But since the existence of slavery ren- 
ders field labor degrading ; and since slaves alone therefore can gene- 
rally be got to do it ; the productiveness of the colonies must be retard- 



11 

ed by the retarded increase of the slaves, if not by their absolute de- 
crease ; and the agricultural ruin of the slave states must be the result, 
(a result indeed, all but produced already,) except emancipation or re- 
volution prevent it. Under the present system, all right sense of char- 
acter is chilled or extinguished. The negroes most naturally think that 
they have a right, whenever they can find an opportunity, to plunder 
their plunderers ; and they do this, not merely by purloining a little 
sugar or ground provisions, he. now and then ; but by laboring, while 
they do labor, as inefficiently as they dare ; and by evading labor al- 
together whenever they can. But if freed, a sense of character 
would necessarily revive ; their own wants would concur with higher 
principles in awakening and cherishing it j stealing instead of ap- 
pearing lawful to them, as it now almost inevitably does from the 
dreadful example set them by their masters, would be regarded as a 
crime ; and ' all the motives to evading labor which are inherent in 
slavery, would be done awa) r . 

As a necessary result of their emancipation, they would more or 
less accumulate property ; this would give them a personal interest, 
of which they could not remain long unaware, in the security of prop- 
erty, and thus their interests and affections would become more and 
identified with the interests of the public. Here we ought to observe 
that in our slave colonies generally, the number of laborers does not 
equal the demand, so that no one,, who could work, need suffer ; 
so great, indeed, is the want of laborers, that little children of six 
years of age can earn their own livelihood. 

Whatever peculiar regulations (if any) might be deemed necessa- 
ry, upon the first promulgation of the restoration to the negro of his 
unforfeited rights, as having been born within the king's legiance j 
such regulations should be expressly limited by law to an early date, 
and could only be necessary for a short time. The effects of eman- 
cipation would speedily impel the proprietors to introduce steam 
mills, ploughs, cattle and other improvements more and more gene- 
rally. New means of amassing property would thus be opened to 
the master ; new sources of employment would be provided for the 
servants ; and with such aids, the labor of every hundred persons, 
would be equivalent to that of two hundred, under the present system. 

If, in the course of this process, the proprietors, being now able 
to accomplish with one hundred laborers, what required two hundred 
before, should not extend their efforts to the amount of laborers wan- 
ting employment, these surplus laborers, not being needed as hired 
servants on the plantations, could be employed with the greatest ad- 
vantage to the public as well as to themselves, in raising provisions, 
such as grain, vegetables, fruit, live stock, &tc. he. upon the waste 
lands, which are now unoccupied, and which form a very large pro- 
portion of the whole extent of the slave colonies. 

The annual expenditure of the proprietors on the new system, 
would not be greater than on the present, even under every disad- 



, 12 

vantage, which could in any common possibility occur ; but the pro- 
fits of the proprietor would be immediately and progressively increa- 
sed : because 

1st. He would suffer less from petty depredations. 

2nd. He would be more able to obtain the extra aid, which agri- 
culture needs on emergent occasions ; and in this would be included 
the important advantage of having every thing done in its proper sea- 
son. The slaves are generally worked the year round beyond their 
strength, so that on the present system, there is no proper resource 
for the emergencies of the seasons, or of the crops. 

3rd. The land, instead of being worn out, would be improved, and 
rent could be obtained for much of that which is now fruitless. 

4th. The proprietors would have the advantage of voluntary labor 
urged on by interest, want, hope, and affection ; over forced labor, 
maddened indeed, at times, to a spasmodic exertion by fear ; but ha- 
bitually depressed by despondency, and rendered unproductive by a 
writhing and smothered sense of wrong. It is a part of the fearful 
infatuation of the slave system, that it first deprives a man of every 
right and happy motive to labor ; then wondering that he is idle, with 
demoniac bitterness, applies the lash or the stocks, or the dungeon, or 
the chain ! ! as if the effect, which results from a cause, could be rem- 
edied by corroborating and aggravating the cause which produced it. 

The negroes continually increasing, the price of labor would pro- 
portionably diminish, and facilitate the opening of new lands ; cattle, 
&c. would be reared, and the land would revive as they multiplied. 

The colonies would be safer, less expensive, and more productive ; 
for a free and loyal population fostered by us, would throng their 
plains, and would be continually extending the mutual demand and 
supply, by which commerce prospers. 

The large capital which the slave system requires for the purchase 
of slaves, is not needed where labor is free. This fact chills the 
spirit of general and useful enterprise by confining the cultivation of 
our slave colonies, or rather the profits of that cultivation, to a few 
wealthy individuals. The government, the nation at home, and the 
negroes abroad, being dishonored, degraded, and plundered, in order 
to gratify the unbending pride, and the crazy fears, and the mistaken 
interests of a few wealthy capitalists. 

For we may observe, that wherever speculations in slave labor, as 
is commonly the case, are pursued on credit, the debtor is entangled 
in all his exertions ; his crops are mortgaged ; he must procure, at 
whatever expense of life to the negro, or of disadvantage to himself, 
the stipulated quantity of produce, and he must commit it to the stip- 
ulated agencies, — he must force the seasons if unfavorable — he loses 
the advantages of the market — he is driven even as he drives the 
poor negro — except indeed that brutal force urges one, — hastening 
to get rich the other, — that the poor negro sees no hope in his toil, — 
but the speculator in the poor negro's sweat is buoyed up for his little 



13 

span by the golden lure, which still glitters brightly before him, how- 
ever certainly it in general eludes his grasp and leaves him in ruin. 
The fair capitalist needs not the cruel and criminal monopoly, which 
the slave system affords him, in order to enhance the advantage which 
the possession of capital always must give over its poorer competitor. 

In the United Slates, the northern part of Maryland is less fertile 
and is less favorably situated for commerce than the south ; but it is 
cultivated chiefly by free men. Land in this part is worth twice as 
much as it is in the southern and more fertile division, which is culti- 
vated by slave labor ; Pennsylvania is a free State ; Virginia a slave ; 
they adjoin one another ; land of the same quality, &,c. is worth twice 
as much in Pennsylvania as in Virginia; wages in Virginia are twice 
as high as in Pennsylvania ; Virginia compared to Pennsylvania is a 
wilderness ; the inhabitants of Virginia are trembling in their beds — 
the people of Pennsylvania rest in safety. 

Kentucky and Ohio are adjoining States ; Kentucky is a slave, 
Ohio a free State ; Kentucky was well settled, when not many years 
ago, Ohio was still a wilderness ; but now the free population of Ohio, 
nearly doubles that of Kentucky, both enslaved and free. 

"In 1821, the colored population of Colombia (including Indians) 
amounted to 900,000. Of these a large number were suddenly eman- 
cipated. The effect was, a degree of docility on the part of the blacks, 
and a degree of confidence and security on the part of the whites, un- 
known in any preceding period of the history of Colombia."* 

" In the parishes of St. John, Philip, and George, in Barbadoes, 
on a plantation of 288 slaves in June 1780, viz. 90 men, 82 women, 
56 boys, and 60 girls, by the exertion of an able and honest manager, 
there were only 15 births, and no less than 57 deaths, in three years 
and three months. An alteration was made in the mode of governing 
the slaves, the whips were taken from all the white servants; all 
arbitrary punishments were abolished, and all offences were tried by a 
negro court. In four years and three months, under this change of 
government, there were 44 births, and only 41 deaths, of which ten 
were of superannuated men and women, and past labor, some about 
eighty years old. But in the same interval, the annual net clearance 
of the estate, was above three times more than it had been for ten 
years before."f 

And should it here be said, " but the negroes were still slaves ;" 
I reply, it is true that the negroes were still slaves, legally, but prac- 
tically they were free : they were secured from all arbitrary punish- 
ments ; their few crimes were tried by their peers ; they received 
wages, and freely enjoyed the fruits of their labor ; they loved the 
locality to which they were accustomed, and had no desire to leave it. 



* Enquiries relating to Negro Emancipation. Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly 
1829. p. 77. 

t See Adam Hodgson's Letter to J. B. Say. Hatchard and Son; Piccadilly, pages" 
24. and 25, 



14 

But it is true that all these blessings depended upon an individual's 
humor, and circumstances, and life ; and so far they were slaves ; 
still, for the time being, they were practically free, and both they and 
their master richly shared for the moment, in the advantages of hired, 
over forced labor. 

" A slave," says Adam Smith, " can have no other interest than 
to eat and waste as much, and work as little as he can ;" and Adam 
Smith here speaks a plain truth of nature. Kindness, indeed, may 
excite affection, and cruelty may awaken terror ; but the affection 
must be as rare as kind slave masters are, and ever must be, while 
man is man ; and though terror may produce spasmodic energy in 
labor, the very spasm destroys ; the driven wretch perishes in the 
midst of his days ; and to the last verge of his daring, " he eats and 
wastes as much, and works as little as he can." The driver may see 
the velocity with which he wields his hoe, and can goad him on if 
he relax ; but no driver's eye can trace the nerve which he puts into 
his hoe ; the instrument moves up and down with its stated quickness, 
but it falls half powerless on the sod. The writhing and recoiling 
mind, in a region of its own, beyond the keenest glance of the op- 
pressor, ever spurns to yield its vigor to brute force. Let the op- 
pressor continue to apply the lash, and he may continue to obtain the 
fruit of the heartless arm ; but if he wish to get the benefit of the 
man's vigor, he must propitiate the man's mind. Free labor does 
this ; slave labor always refuses it. 

" Some years ago, a mill-dam was carried away not far from the 
city of Washington in the United States. A contractor was applied 
to ; he pledged himself to repair it in twenty days, if allowed to provide 
for the negroes as he pleased. The proprietor consented ; " but" said 
he, you cannot do it in sixty ; I am certain my negroes will not be 
able to do it in less." The contractor repeated his pledge and began 
the work ; he purchased some barrels of good pork and beef, and other 
necessaries of life, and suitable clothes for the season and labor : he fed 
the negroes freely, clad them well, worked with them himself, and 
treated them kindly. He completed the work within the specified time ; 
did it in a masterly manner, and secured the good will of the negroes."* 

Here we may observe, and urge as an important fact, in the search 
after truth on this subject, that the labor of slaves is not always slave- 
labor. In the Barbadian case, and in that just mentioned, the labor- 
ers employed were slaves, but their labor was free labor ; that is, al- 
though legally slaves, they were, in these instances, treated like free 
laborers ; they were won to exertion by the same motives as those 
which lead free laborers to exertion ; and they were free, for the 
time, from the degrading and destructive effects of brute compulsion. 



* Relief for West India Distress by James Cropper. London : Printed by Ellerton 
and Henderson, Gough Square. 1828. 



15 

The misery of the slave, is — not that he is every moment driven to 
death, for then would all slaves be quickly exterminated — but that 
he depends for all his present comforts, and future hopes on earth, 
upon the humor, and the fortune, and the life of a fellow sinner ; and 
of a fellow sinner almost always brutified in relation to him, by the 
demoralizing effects of despotic power. The happiness of the free 
laborer, is — not that he always has abundance, for he is often in want 
— but that he is dependant mainly upon God, and his own exertions, 
and that he is as honorable in the eye of the law, and is as really pro- 
tected as his master is. 

Slave labor is, in fact, a device for depriving the employer of all 
the advantages of mind in his laborer, and for reducing the produc- 
tiveness of the man's toil to one half, or less, of what his mere phys- 
ical strength could produce ;. the writhing mind always subducting the 
other half, maugre despotism. 

But free labor is a mode, by which, whatever the man is able to 
perform, is performed with all the advantages of mind which he may 
possess, and is enhanced by the energies of a willing heart. The 
former is the gain of the man who employs free laborers ; the latter 
is the loss of the man who will have slaves. M. Coulomb, who for 
many years conducted extensive military works, both in France and 
the West Indies, states that : 

" Field slaves do only between a third and a half of the work 
dispatched by reluctant French soldiers ; and probably, not more than 
a third of what those very slaves would do, if urged by their own in- 
terest, instead of brute force."* 

II. Immediate emancipation would be happy for the Negro. 

The evidence in favor of this proposition is luminously complete ; 
but prejudice has thrown much darkness around it. The question 
itself has been mistated ; the facts of history perverted ; false argu- 
ments adduced ; and thus, upon a ground altogether assumed, a con- 
genial structure has been reared. 

What is the question ? 

It is, whether as a general truth, it is best for a laboring man to la- 
bor as a hired laborer, or as a slave ? Whether it is best for him to 
labor for wages, which shall be his own, or to be dependent upon his 
master for what he shall please to give him ? Whether it be best for 
him that his wife should be independent of his employer, or should 
be his master's slave ? Whether it is best for him to be subject to no 
penalty, except for his own crimes, — or to be liable to be sold for his 
master's debts ? Whether it is best for him to be secure from punish- 
ment, until found guilty on fair and open trial, — or to be left at his 
master's discretion to be flogged, imprisoned, and tortured whenever 
his master pleases, he. ? 

* Hodgson's Letter to Say, p. 9. 



16 

The question is not, whether in some cases, it would not be better 
for a poor man to be entirely dependant upon a kind employer, and 
to be entirely provided for by him ; but whether, in all cases, general- 
ly, it is better for a poor man to be the subject of just and equal laws, 
or the slave of the humor and will of his employer ? 

The answer is obvious. Unfit as the man may be to be entrusted 
with liberty, still his happiness will be more secure, under God, in 
.his own keeping, than in any other man's. In keeping his own lib- 
erty, he is liable to abuse it. True ; but who is not subject to the 
same liability ? and if no man were to be free, until he were secure 
from abusing his liberty, where would the free man be ! ! But lia- 
ble as the poor man unquestionably is to abuse his liberty, it is a still 
more striking and awful truth, that the rich or the strong man, armed 
with despotic authority, is yet more liable to abuse his power. Who 
in his senses would give his son for a slave to the Turk, because his 
son was liable to abuse his liberty ! Yet the Turks, generally speak- 
ing, are kinder slave masters than the British are. And if the Brit- 
ish slave master excuse himself from this procedure, by saying, that 
he has better means of securing his son from the abuse in question, 
than by giving him to a Turk; who does not see, that as truly, the 
British slave masters have vastly better means for securing the hap- 
piness of the negroes, than by keeping them in slavery ? The follow- 
ing facts are selected from many, to prove that immediate emancipa- 
tion would be happy for the negroes. 

In the year 1794, the French National Convention at once declar- 
ed all the slaves in their colonies to be free. Capt. W. of Cove Cork, 
was at that time residing in Cayenne. Liberty was proclaimed to 
the slave population around him, and slavery instantly ceased. He 
declared to me, that there was no disorder or fear; but all flourished. 
The masters and the laborers were alike happy, until Buonaparte, in 
1802, restored slavery there. 

The case of Hayti, or St. Domingo, is still more in point, because 
it was on a large scale, and its history is better known ; and it is im- 
jportant to sketch it, as it has been grossly perverted by the advocates 
for slavery, and the enemies of the negroes. 

In the latter end of 1793, liberty was proclaimed to the slaves by 
the government of the island, for the purpose of extinguishing a civil 
war, which had been for sometime raging, and which the government 
found itself, although aided by troops from France, unable to quell ; 
as well as in order to resist an invasion of the English. Early in 
1794 this act was confirmed by the National Convention. The 
emancipation of the negroes, 500,000 in a body, produced the effects 
d(esired. The civil war was extinguished; the English were expel- 
lejd ; and Hayti continued to flourish until 1802, when Buonaparte 
endeavored to restore slavery there. He was foiled. But his horri- 
ble attempt led to a second civil war, which long distracted the isl- 
and, and which led to the expulsion of the whites. It is now at 



17 

peace ; and a French merchant, with whom I met last winter in Bel- 
fast, and who had resided chiefly in Hayti for upwards of twenty 
years past, told me, that though well acquainted with Great Britain 
and the United States ; he knew of no country, in which there were 
so few infractions of the criminal code, and so much general comfort, 
good order, kindness, and independence as in Hayti. 

The late first president of the Royal Court of St. Lucia, J. Jere- 
mie, presents to us the following contrast, in facts of his own experi- 
ence in St Lucia. 

"One day I visited officially a plantation in the highest order, — the 
cleanliness of the buildings, their perfect state of repair, the luxuriance 
of the crops, all that concerned the manager's interest, bore an appear- 
ance truly gratifying. But it was my duty to inspect the gang : they 
were wretched to a degree, all but naked, eaten up with sores, wealed 
with flogging, diminishing rapidly, the only exception being a fine 
healthy child about six years of age. And on full inquir}', all this 
order, all this splendor, had been purchased at their expense. 

"Much about the same time, I was called on to visit another estate, 
which the proprietors had quitted for some years, and for about three 
had left even without a manager! ! The house and buildings were in 
decay, the general cultivation neglected, the appearance of the proper- 
ty, in all respects, the contrast of the other ; but that contrast also ex- 
tended to the gang. — The men were a stout, healthy body of laborers. 
Men, women, and children, were well clothed and well fed; their 
grounds stored with ample provisions; a mother with her nine, another 
with six children around her; a great grandmother with a numerous pro- 
geny, all smiling and cheerful; their cottages well wattled, the inside 
separated into two or three different compartments, clean to a degree, 
and each containing a trunk filled with good clothing and some female 
ornaments. Yet was this plantation in the most remote, the other in 
the most convenient, part of country." p. 62. 

In 1829 it became generally known in the islands proximate to St 
Lucia, that a foreign slave, upon landing in a British colony was free ; 
and the consequence was, that in 1830, upwards of 100 made their 
escape and came over to St. Lucia, from Martinique. These per- 
sons were described by their governors as incendiaries, idlers, and 
poisoners ! ! 

Mr. Jeremie says respecting them, page 51 — 2. 

""When I left the colony in April last, some were employed for 
wages in the business they were best acquainted with; 3ome as masons,, 
and carpenters; some as domestics; others in clearing land, or as 
laborers on estates; whilst about twenty-six had clubbed together and 
placed themselves under the direction of a free colored man, an 
African — one of the persons deported from Martinique in 1824. These 
last had erected a pottery at a short distance from Castries: they took 
a piece of land, three or four cleared it, others fished up coral, and 
burnt lime, five or six quarried, and got the stones and performed the 
mason-work, the remainder felled the timber and worked it in; and the 

3 



18 

little money that was requisite was supplied, in advance, by the con- 
tractor for the church, on the tiles to be furnished for the building. This 
pottery was completed, a plain structure, but of great solidity, and 
surprising neatness. Thus had they actually introduced a new man- 
ufacture into the country, for which it was previously indebted to our 
foreign neighbors, or to the home market." 

The evidence respecting the liberated crown slaves in the crown 
colonies, as the law has not been evaded or abused, is altogether 
delightful. — It unanswerably proves that the native Africans are quite 
as fit for liberty as any people upon earth ; and by consequence that 
the Creole slaves, if at all improved by our management of them, are 
yet more fit. But if on the contrary, they are not so fit, what are 
we about thus grossly to defy God, and deliberately to lie, by pretend- 
ing all the time to wish to prepare them for liberty, while we persist 
for our own purposes, in grinding and wasting the unoffending poor !* 

The following fact is from my own experience : — 

Between the years 1817 and 1822, about 150 slaves succeeded in 
making their escape from the United States into Upper Canada. I 
became more or less acquainted with them all, and found them quite 
equal to any class of laborers in the country. These, with many oth- 
ers since escaped, are now comfortably settled upon lands, the pur- 
chase of their own industry, near Maiden, in the western district of 
Upper Canada ; one of them, a man named Adams, was one of the 
most interesting persons with whom I have ever met. 

The following illustration is given me by my friend W. T. Blair, 
Esq. of Gotham Lodge, near Bristol. 

"It is well known that the Hottentot has been represented as the 
lowest of all the African tribes in the scale of humanity. He is gene- 
rally considered as a type of all that is degraded in human nature; 
scarcely raised a degree above the level of the brute creation, and in- 
capable of improvement. 

"It is true, that when Vanderkemp first went amongst them, they 
were in a very lawless and uncivilized condition; that they knew no- 
thing, and cared nothing about the arts and comforts of civilized life; 
that they lived chiefly by plunder, and were a terror to the colony. 
But, they have since by kindness and christian instruction, been con- 
verted into peaceable industrious subjects. 

"When I visited Bethelsdorp in 1824, there were about 2000 peo- 
ple on the books of the Institution. They had acquired about 2000 
head of cattle, 177 horses, 240 sheep and goats, and 60 waggons, 
which latter is in South Africa, an expensive and valuable article of 
property ; 300 children attended the Sunday school, and there were 
about 60 communicants. But few carosses or sheep skin coverings (the 
native dress of the hottentots) were to be seen in the premises; nearly 



*See Anti-Slayery Reporter, No. 70, Yol. iii, page 453 — 475, and No. 89, Vol.iv, 
page 453 — 454. 



19 

all the men were dressed in English broad-cloth, and the women in En- 
glish chintzes. In 1823, or 24, they competed successfully with the 
English and Dutch farmers, in the neighborhood, for the conveyance 
of government stores from Algoa Bay to Graham's Town, and in the 
same year they expended 20,000 rix dollars in the purchase of British 
manufactures. The year I visited the station, an Auxiliary Missionary 
Society had been re-established amongst the Hottentots, and 500 rix 
dollars had been contributed by them, chiefly by small weekly sub- 
scriptions." 

III. The immediate emancipation of the negroes would be right in 
the government. 

This is a truth so evident, and so little disputed, that I shall dwell 
but briefly on it. 

The chief difficulty seems to consist in the persuasion that the gov- 
ernment is bound, on emancipating the negroes, to compensate the 
masters for the loss, which they declare they will suffer. Without 
discussing this question here, I will observe that the emancipation of 
the negroes, and the remuneration of their masters, are two essen- 
tially distinct things, and ought always to be kept separate. The ne- 
groes, as unoffending British subjects, have an unquestionable right to 
the King's protection, whether their masters be remunerated or not. If 
the masters can substantiate any real claim on the nation, it undoubtedly 
ought to be liquidated. But the claim which the negroes have upon 
the government, without a question is louder, and more solemn far. 
The one (the negro) demands the restoration of rights which he has 
never forfeited, which are his by British Law, but of which he is depriv- 
ed by wicked power; he demands security for his life, for his person, 
for the fruits of his toil, for his wife, and his child, and his cot. The 
other (the master) demands security for a portion of his money. — 
To put the master's claim upon a par with that of the negro, is to 
confound all distinction between things of the most vital and unal- 
terable importance, and things comparatively insignificant and of 
fluctuating value. But to set the master's claim above the negro's ; 
the claim of the wrong doer above that of the sufferer of wrong ; the 
claim of money, above life, liberty, wife, children, and the fair fruits 
of the man's own labor, is to outrage all righteousness. Unquestion- 
ably the master ought to be remunerated, whenever he can prove a 
just claim to remuneration. But more unquestionably far, the negro 
ought to be restored to his unforfeited rights as a British subject ; the 
right of the unoffending sufferer ought to be preferred to the money 
of the oppressor. 

The government has no right, except the right of the free-booter ; 
the dreadful right of the strongest, to continue to permit the outrage 
of the poor, because the rich are afraid that they will lose some mon- 
ey, should that outrage be arrested. As far as the government has 
sanctioned or connived at negro slavery, it has sinned and has dis- 
graced itself in the eyes of every right mind. The government has 



20 

an unquestionable right to abolish the crime instantly and utterly, and 
as unquestionably it is the sacred duty of government to do so. De- 
laying, is but encouraging wrong and oppressing right. Delaying is 
but bending to wickedness because it is strong, and suffering the 
destruction of the weak, because they are weak. 

If the government would have the favor of God, or the respect of 
those whose respect is the respect of truth and dutifulness — if they 
would not teach the wicked to despise them while they flatter or to 
scoff and defy them to their face with impunity, as the slave party 
has been doing, the government must no longer tamper with this atro- 
cious crime, but put it down firmly with the righteous arm of its law- 
ful authority. The fundamental principles of British Law are quo- 
ted by Blackstone as follows. " Those rights which God and nature 
have established, and which are therefore called natural rights, such 
as life and liberty, need not the aid of human laws to be more effec- 
tually vested in every man than they are ; neither do they receive 
any additional strength, when declared by the municipal laws to be 
inviolable — On the contrary, no human legislation has power to 
abridge or to destroy them, unless the owner shall himself commit 
some act that amounts to a forfeiture." Blackstone's Introduction, 
Sect. 2. And again, " Natural allegiance is such as is due from all 
men born within the King's dominions, immediately upon their birth, 
for immediately on their birth they are under the King's protection. 
The prince is always under a constant tie to protect his natural born 
subjects, in all times and in all countries. They have a great variety 
of rights which they acquire by being born within the king's legiance, 
and can never forfeit by any distance of time or place, but only by 
their own misbehavior." Blackstone's Rights of Persons, b. 1 . c. 1 0. 

Littleton says, 2nd Inst. chap. 2. page 141 " Malus usus abolenda 
est," and Coke remarks on those words, page 141 " Quia, in consue- 
tudinibus, non diurnitas temporis, sed soliditas rationis, est conside- 
randa." Evil customs should be abolished ; because in judging 
them, we ought not to consider the length of time that they have 
prevailed, but the strength of the reason which supports them." 

IV. The immediate emancipation of the negroes would be ad- 
vantageous to the nation. 

What does the immediate emancipation of the negroes mean ? It 
means their being at one restored to their unforfeited rights as guilt- 
less British subjects, — It means their being at once made the subjects 
of wise and benignant laws, — It means that their happiness, under 
God, should be at once committed to their own keeping, under those 
laws, instead of being left to the keeping for them of others, who, 
from the very nature of human things, are under the most overwhelm- 
ing temptations to insult, degrade, slander, abuse and oppress them. 
It means, that their own wants, their own interests, their own desires, 
and the benefit or pleasure of those whom they love, or who have 
been kind to them, shall become their stimulants to industry, instead 



21 

of the brute force, by which they are at present goaded ; and that 
the fruits of their own labor, instead of remaining the legalized booty 
of another, should become their own. 

The only difficulty, in this case, arises from the idea that the ne- 
groes would not work. But abundant evidence proves that this is 
simply a prejudice, with no other grounds, but the oppression which 
produces it, or the ignorance which it deceives. 

The following evidence on this subject was adduced by Mr. Pitt, 
in the House of Commons, in April, 1792. "The assembly of 
Grenada had themselves stated, " that though the negroes were al- 
lowed the afternoons of only one day in every week, they would do 
as much work in that afternoon, when employed for their own bene- 
fit, as in the whole day, when employed in their master's service." 
Now after this confession, the House might burn all its calculations 
relative to the negro population. A negro, if he worked for himself 
could do double work. By an improvement then, in the mode of 
labor, the work in the islands could be doubled."* 

And what improvement in labor can be so great, as giving the la- 
borer a personal interest, well secured to him, in the produce of his 
labor 5 as winning his affections to the work in which he is employed ! 

In 1780, Kentucky was a flourishing state, and had a considera- 
ble population ; the same year Ohio had scarcely thirty white inhab- 
itants. But Kentucky was a slave state, and Ohio a free one. 

In 1830, the population of Kentucky was less than seven hun- 
dred thousand, but that of Ohio was nearly one million ; and land 
of the same quality in Ohio, was worth twice as much as in Ken- 
tucky. 

In 1780, Virginia had a population of six or seven hundred thou- 
sand, New York only about four hundred thousand. But Virginia 
was a slave state while New York had but few slaves. 

In 1830, the population of Virginia was only about 1,211,266, of 
whom 469,724 were slaves. But the population of New York, 
where there were only forty six slaves, had increased to 1,913,508. 

And why was this ? 

Kentucky and Virginia can scarcely be surpassed in natural fertil- 
ity ; they are two of the garden spots of the world. In every other 
advantage excepting one they had an equal share with Ohio and 
New York. That one was/ree labor. Kentucky and Virginia re- 
fused it when it was at their option, and they refuse it still. Ohio 
and New York accepted the boon, and they are largely reaping the 
benefit. 

A missionary and his wife, who returned from Jamaica last year, 
after a residence there of about fifteen years, told me at Birming- 
ham, where I met them, that having been much acquainted with the 
coffee plantations of that island, they had generally found the slaves 

* Clarkson's History of the Abolition of the Slave Trade, Vol. 2, page 428. 



22 

to be dismissed from their master's work at about 4 p. m. ; and that 
the difference in their gait and demeanor, before and after four, had 
always greatly struck them. Before four while employed in forced 
labor for their masters, there was an apathy, a stupidity, a careless- 
ness, and want of nerve, which seemed invincible, except by spas- 
modic terror. But as soon as they were dismissed to work for them- 
selves, they were at once all life and activity, cheerfully hastening 
to the cultivation of the grounds allotted to them for rearing their 
own provisions. 

A similar fact is affirmed in that admirable work, " The Christian 
Record of Jamaica, for January, 1831, No. 5, p. 13." In coffee dis- 
tricts, it is usual for the master to hire his people, after they have done 
their regular task for the day, at a rate varying from ten pence, to 
one shilling and eight pence for every extra bushel which they pick 
from the trees ; and many, almost all, are found eager to earn these 
wages." And again, same page ; "Negroes, in general, work much 
harder in their own grounds, than in their masters' fields." 

Two other evidences may suffice. The one is from a Berbice 
planter, Mynheer Van Rossom. The other from J. Jeremie's most 
interesting and instructive Essays. 

Mynheer Van Rossom's testimony was given to me personally, last 
summer, in London, but I prefer quoting it from his own words, as 
contained in a memorial presented by him to his Majesty's govern- 
ment in behalf of the colonies, in 1831. 

" I know them from experience ; they are a grateful and faithful 
people. During the five years that I lived amongst them, I experien- 
ced so many proofs of their fidelity, love, and attachment, and above all 
of their gratitude, that I should be unjust to them, and untrue to my- 
self, if I did not state it. I never had a runaway upon any of my 
estates. I have never been obliged to punish a slave for not doing his 
work, or not working' enough ; and the trouble I had to prevent. their 
working on Sundays in crop time, will hardly be credited. I often 
remonstrated with them that it was not lawful. When, in 1817, they 
had once gone to the field on a Sunday morning to pick coffee, the only 
mode which I could put a stop to it, and prevent a repetition, was to 
pay them the full amount of the coffee brought home. They had work- 
ed half a day, and I gave them £65, stating to them, that I paid them 
the full value, as I would not be benefitted by their labor on that day." 

In another place he says : — 

" Dependence can be placed on them. If I keep my part of the 
contract, they will keep theirs." 

The number of Mr. Van Rossom's negroes was about 400. 

In 1822, the government of St. Lucia instituted an inquiry into 
the frequency of running away among slaves. The commandant at 
Castries, (the capital of St. Lucia,) supplied a report on the subject. 
He admitted the frequency of running away, and as Mr. Jeremie 
says, page 52. 



" He accounted for it, among other causes, by the too great intima- 
cy between slaves and the lower class of free persons ; and in proof 
of this he offered to submit for inspection certain small plantations,, 
often occupied by a free colored man and his wife alone, the former 
being either a fisherman, mason, carpenter, or sportsman ; and yet, 
observes the reporter, 'his plantation is better cultivated, and he has 
more land in cultivation, than proprietors of several slaves.' ' Who 
then,' he adds, ' cultivated his property 1 Perhaps clay laborers. No, 
he employs none ; he employs runaway slaves !' " 

And what does this statement prove ? Clearly that if the reporter 
affirmed rightly, runaway slaves, under all the depressing fears of dis- 
covery and oppression, labor well because the fruits of their labor 
are immediately their own : how much better then, if freed from those 
fears, and if stimulated by the still fairer hopes, which warm the bo- 
som of the free man ! Or if the reporter was in error, that one free 
man and his wife, in the midst of other avocations, can do more than 
a slave master with several slaves. 1 feel indeed that I am almost 
insulting the understandings of my readers, in dwelling on this evi- 
dence ; — and perhaps nothing but the thick darkness, which pride 
and prejudice have woven round a subject in itself so plain, could 
excuse me. 

But if the evidence adduced have force, and darkness be fleeing 
before the light of truth, we see that the immediate emancipation of 
800,000 souls, would give the nation upwards of a million, instead 
of 2 or 300,000 consumers for its varied productions : the agricul- 
ture of the colonies, which is perishing, would be retrieved : the 
sources of insolvency, vice, sterility and ruin, which are interwoven, 
fundamentally, in the Negro slave system, being removed by its abo- 
lition ; and every mind in the colonies being left free to bring its 
quota of talent and of energy into the common stock for the public 
good, the whole would rapidly increase in number and in wealth : 
character would improve ; credit would be restored ; enterprize, no 
longer reduced to a monopoly by the immense capital requisite for 
slave speculations, would revive ; and the fertile lands, which though 
now rendered comparatively barren, still call our ships across the 
sea, restored by the willing nerve of freedom to their fertility, would 
soon demand a double number. 

V. The immediate emancipation of the negroes would interfere 
with no feelings, but such as are disgraceful and destructive. 

What are the feelings which forbid the immediate emancipation of 
the negroes ? — that is, their being immediately made the subjects of 
wise and benignant laws, instead of leaving them, as they now are, 
the slaves of private caprice ? 

Not regard for the law of God, for the Divine law is the law of 
all righteous liberty : the express command to masters is, to give to 
servants that which is just and equal, and the part which God choos- 
es is, "to let loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy bur- 
dens, and to let the oppressed go free." 



24 

Not regard for the laws of our country, — for, as quoted in page 
20, the negroes being by birth the king's subjects, are unquestionably- 
entitled to his protection, and can never lose their right to it by any 
thing but by their own misbehavior. 

Not respect for the Colonial Charter, — for those Charters forbid 
any laws, but such as are consistent with the laws of England. 

Not care for our own souls, — for the cry of our brother's blood 
which we are shedding, is sounding louder and louder in the ears of 
Jehovah, against us. 

Not love for our neighbor, — for who could think that a Turk lov- 
ed him as himself, if he persisted in keeping him and his wife, and 
children, in forced bondage. 

Not love for the ne'groes' temporal happiness, — for negro slavery 
continually plunders the wretched negro who is subjected to it, of al- 
most every means of happiness. 

Not a desire to educate the negro under a wise and benignant tu- 
torage, — for, with a few exceptions, as far as depends upon the mas- 
ters, the great body of the negroes remain as uneducated as their 
ancestors were an hundred years ago. The following illustrations 
may suffice. 

The Jamaica Slave Law of 1696, contained the following clause : 
" All the owners, and the managers, and overseers of slaves, shall, as 
much as in them lies, endeavor the instruction of their slaves, in the 
principles of the christian religion, to facilitate their conversion," &c. 

This clause was substantially repeated in 1788, in 1816, in 1826, 
in 1829, and in 1831. (3rd clause.) 

But in the Jamaica Christian Record, for Nov. 1830, No. 3, page 
128, we have a list of twenty-four plantations, (with nearly 4500 
slaves) on one of which only, reading was allowed ; on ten of which, 
there was some merely oral catechisings ; and on t the remaining thir- 
teen of which, no instruction whatever was permitted ; and this is 
probably a fair average of our slave colonies. 

The other fact is, that although the Society for propagating the Gos- 
pel, with the Bishops for its leaders, has had in its hands a Slave es- 
tate in Barbadoes, called "The Codrington Estate," for upwards of 
100 years, and actually has for its head, the Archbishop of Canter- 
bury, the negroes on it generally continue in open fornication and 
adultery. 

Not to prepare them for liberty, — for after upwards of two hun- 
dred years, for doing so, if they had been inclined to it, the slave par- 
ty declare that the negroes are not yet ready. Although the native 
Africans, those savage Africans, as the politer West Indians call them, 
can be landed from the captured slave ships, at once as freemen, 
with perfect safety, and with much benefit to the public and them- 
selves. 



25 

I know, indeed, that the above desires are loudly professed. But 
I know as well, that they are not more loudly professed to-day than 
they were two hundred years ago. I know also, that the natural 
mind is the same now as it was then ; that the imbruting influence of 
despotic power on the human mind, remains the same ; that as stiffly 
as ever, we defy God, refusing to let the oppressed go free ; that the 
condition of the negro remains essentially as wronged and as wretch- 
ed as formerly; that in sinning to-day, as we persist in doing, against 
our unoffending black brother, we are sinning in the face of greater 
light, and therefore exhibiting a more awful evidence than ever 
of our obstinate corruption ; that a thousand years has made no dif- 
ference in the humbling but important truth, that "the man who trusts 
his own heart, is a fool j" and I therefore can see no reason at all for 
believing assertions, which the solemn and undeniable evidence of 
God and of history, has proved to be utterly delusive, in regard to 
truth ; to be experimentally disgraceful to its assertors, and fearfully 
ruinous to the guiltless victims. Avarice — indolence — pride — lust 
the fear of man ; the pursuit of man's favor and such like, are the 
only feelings which are really hostile to the immediate emancipation 
of the negroes, and these are the feelings, which are still making this 
world, otherwise so lovely, even in its ruins, a great field of lust and 
blood, and which are filling up the pit with its victims. 

VI. Emancipation cannot be postponed without great danger. 

There is danger, in the continual deepening of the divine wrath ; 
this is indeed despised or disbelieved ; but it is not less sure, or the 
less dreadful. It is coming. 

The greatest danger of pecuniary ruin to the masters, is essentially 
interwoven in the negro slave system. Bryan Edwards, one of their 
leaders, declared this in 1792. The Assembly of Jamaica, has since 
urged it repeatedly. The West India party in England, has reitera- 
ted it. Their extensive failures, and their almost universal distress, 
evince its force. All lotteries are disgraceful and ruinous ; but ne- 
gro slavery is the worst of all. It is a lottery in the oppression and 
blood of the poor. Determining at all risks to be rich, "its dupes 
fall into temptation, and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful 
lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition." 1 Tim. vi. 9. 
With giant strides they have ruined, and are ruining themselves ; and 
then, like gloomy and disappointed idiots, they scowl at every one 
who will not flatter their madness ; or who endeavors to bring them 
to repentance, and to rescue from their iniquitous grasp, even by the 
wisest and the kindest means, the unoffending poor. 

But passing by the manifold details of my position, I wisli particu- 
larly to point out the following awfully impending sources of danger, 
which are increasing with every day's delay. 

Who does not know, that knowledge and slavery are incompatible ? 
The one cannot flourish, without destroying the other. But progress 
in knowledge is inseparable from every species of amelioration. Teli 

4 



26 

of a plan of gradual emancipation, without improving the negroes in 
knowledge, and you tell of your own folly. Speak of preparing the 
negroes for liberty, without cultivating their minds, and you render 
your proposition unworthy of all regard. But every step in knowl- 
edge nerves the arm, and whets the sword of the wronged, for the 
recovery of his plundered and unforfeited rights. " Timely reform," 
it is well said, " is reconciliation with a friend. Reform delayed, is 
capitulation to an enemy." 

Whatever might be the result of immediate emancipation, by the 
wise and parental authority of government, the result of emancipa- 
tion wrought out by the negroes for themselves, would unquestionably 
reek with blood. 

On the gradual system, increasing numbers are continually getting 
free. The more benignant, and consequently the more worthy of 
regard, that system may be, the greater are those numbers : but they 
do not get their parents, wives, and children freed with them. — 
"What kind of a woman was your mother," said a slave master some 
years ago, in a familiar mood, to a fine African boy whom he had 
purchased. The poor boy's heart writhed beneath the associations 
awakened : "Come, tell me," said the white man who regarded the 
black man as a brute, only fit to be enslaved and insulted ; "what 
kind of woman was she, was she tall, was she thin, was she old, was 
she beautiful ?" The boy's glistening eyes arose, and in broken accents 
he said, "how could a mother but be beautiful in the eyes of her 
child ! !" These increasing crowds of free men, eminent as far as 
our slave system has not destroyed the characteristic, for filial duti- 
fulness, see and hear the brutal wrongs, which their loved and honor- 
ed ones are suffering. They know, for they have felt, that slavery is 
no bed of roses ; that consuming one's strength by force, for another's 
benefit, is no pleasant toil ; that licentious power, backed by oppor- 
tunity, is not a fictitious terror ; their souls writhe within them at the 
nameless wrongs to which their parents, wives, and children, are still 
subjected. Their number and intelligence ; their wealth and power 
continually and unavoidably increasing, give energy to the fire which 
is burning within them ; every feeling of the human heart, which ex- 
cites to resistance and to retaliation, rankles more and more deeply, 
and they are only waiting the climax and the opportunity, to sweep 
away the accursed remnants of the slave system, in the blood of its 
unrelenting perpetrators. 

Immediate emancipation is a certain remedy, and it is the only 
remedy at once righteous in principle, and safe in fact. Delays are 
dangerous. Delay in duty, that is, in what is morally right, is criminal 
as well as dangerous. The Almighty, as the American Jefferson, so 
solemnly and so truly said half a century ago, in relation to negro 
slavery in the United States, "has no attribute, which can take side 
with us, in such a contest !" 



27 

If these things be so ; if the immediate emancipation of the ne- 
groes, would be safe and profitable to the masters, and happy for 
themselves: if it would be right in the government and advantageous 
to the nation : if it would interfere with no really honorable and up- 
right feeling, and if it cannot be postponed without continually in- 
creasing danger, two or three striking questions arise. 

1st. Why do not the slave party see it; they have many men of 
high talent, who are sensible and well informed, and some of whom, 
in other things, are of remarkable benevolence. Why do not they 
see and act upon the fact, if it be so ? 

I answer, some of them, though few, do see it ; and some of them, 
though fewer still, have acted upon it, and of course have ceased 
to be slave masters ; but the slander, and the opposition, and the 
violence, and the scorn which it provokes from the rest, embarrass 
their measures, and largely prevent the delightful fruit which would 
otherwise arise. This is an evil, which the government alone can 
remedy. 

But the great body of them do not see it, because their minds, 
however bright and honorable in other things, are perfectly imbruted 
towards the negro. They have so long seen him in the posture of a 
slave, and with the attributes of a slave, that they deem it a jest or 
an insult, to represent tbe negro to them in his real character, as a 
brother man, more honorable, because less guilty than they them- 
selves are ; as their unoffending and oppressed fellow-subjects, en- 
titled quite as much as they to the king's protection, and suffering 
wrongs from them, manifold more aggravated than the worst of those 
which their fears conjure up from the nation, and in view of which, 
bugbear as they are, they are half assuming the attitude of treason. 
They overlook the obvious fact, that the crime is their own, and they 
blame and traduce the poor negro, because he is suffering the effects 
of the wrongs which they inflict upon him. They will not open their 
eyes to see, that the character which the negro exhibits under their 
bondage, is the character which that bondage almost inevitably pro- 
duces, and is as different from his own, as the feelings of the free- 
man differ from those of the slave. Some years ago, a Friend resi- 
ding near the borders of Virginia, heard that a negro of the most 
hardened character, was thrown into prison as a last resource ; " not 
all the promises or all the terrors of his master," said they, " can 
make any thing of him ; he seems to laugh at flogging, and at chains, 
and death ; he is always thieving, always lying, and always idle." 
The Friend, with two or three others, went to see him ; the negro 
seemed to have made up his mind for defiance, and sat gloomily and 
contemptuously before them. They sought to get at his heart, but 
long he heeded them not ; at length, when they were about to give 
him up in despair, a fibre was suddenly smitten ; "massa," said he, 
" you know no'ting 'bout dat ; " you get me free, den you see, what 
kind man I." They easily purchased him, for he was a nuisance 



28 

rather than of any value to his master ; and he immediately proved 
himself, and continued to prove himself, one of the most dutiful and 
industrious men, that the Friend ever knew. But the great body of 
the slave party are so imbruted in all their feelings towards the ne- 
groes, that they will not and cannot see the broad and delightful truth 
which this bespeaks; and they persist in ruining themselves, and wast- 
ing the negro by vainly endeavoring to obtain by force, what equity 
and love would at once obtain without sin or difficulty. Their minds 
are in the same posture in relation to the negro, as the mind of the 
drunkard is in relation to his liquor, or of the adulterer in relation to 
his lusts. They see the negro slavish, artful, thievish, and idle, as a 
slave. They will have it, that as a freeman, he would be the same; 
and therefore, with all the wisdom of infatuation, they persist in keep- 
ing him a slave, in order to prepare him for liberty ; they will retain 
him in the condition which has, in a great measure, forced him to be 
slavish, idle, thievish, and artful, in order to teach him to be indepen- 
dent, industrious, honest, and open. This fact could scarcely be 
more strikingly exhibited, than it is in the following words of the as- 
sembly of Jamaica, in their decision of December 14, 1827. 

"The whip is not forbidden in the field, lest the abandonment too 
suddenly, of a long established usage, should be misunderstood by the 
slaves. * * * Until Negro women have acquired more of the sense 
of shame, which distinguishes European females, it will be impossible 
in respect to them, to lay aside altogether, punishment by flogging, 
there being no substitute that promises to be accompanied with the 
same salutary dread." 

Or in the following quotation from the Antigua Free Press of Fri- 
day, June 8th, 1827. 

" On the first introduction of the Slave Code into Trinidad, the 
abolition of the whip, in the punishment of female slaves, coming sud- 
denly on the Planter, unprovided with the authorized means of coer- 
cion, was the cause of great relaxation of discipline, and frequent 
disorders occurred. But the application of the hand and feet stocks 
has proved fully effectual for the punishment of refractory or inso- 
lent slaves ; and at this period, the females are maintained in as per- 
fect order and subordination as the males. These stocks, confining 
the hands and feet, by which the body is kept in a position, that at 
length becomes almost insupportable, are allowed by law to be applied 
for six hours; but the severity of the punishment has proved so great, 
that few planters will go to the extent authorized; and the female who 
has once tasted of its salutary bitterness, has seldom any inclination 
to try a second dose ! !" 

Such is the wisdom, and such are the contrivances of the great 
body of the Negro Slave Masters. Such are the modes, by which 
they seek to enrich themselves, and to prepare the Negroes for lib- 
erty ; and such is the condition, in which they would have us con- 



29 

tentedly leave our guiltless fellow subjects in the slave colonies ; till 
women, by indecent exposures, and brutal floggings, are taught mod- 
esty; or by stretching on the stocks of Trinidad, are inspired with 
respect for the authorities above them, and with cheerful industry!! ! 
The simple reason why a man who keeps his eyes fast closed, cannot 
see, even while the day is pouring upon him, is because he will not 
open his eyes. 

2nd. The Planters surely love their own pecuniary interests. 
The negroes are actually their property. To oppress and destroy 
the negroes, would be to destroy their own property ; and how can 
we believe, that shrewd men like the Planters, fully awake to their 
own pecuniary interests, could act so irrationally ? 

On our post roads of Britain, the Post Masters love their money 
as well as the West India Planters do. The post horses are their 
own property. Yet, who does not know that, in seasons of competi- 
tion especially, the poor horses are driven beyond their strength, and 
often killed? Negro slavery is an intense competition of ardent ri- 
vals, driving against each other. The driven animal, as in other ca- 
ses, is the sufferer. The driver also very frequently suffers, betray- 
ed by the lust of gold. This is eminently the case with the slave 
party. In their horrible lottery of avarice, and lust, and blood, nine 
out of ten are ruined. They are driving, themselves to destruction 
as fast as they can. But they resolutely shut up their senses against 
the blaze of evidence which demonstrates this fact ; and while they 
go on railing at the government ; and at the friends of humanity ; 
and at the poor negroes — and even at the blessed missionaries of the 
cross ; they are continually deepening their guilt and their ruin. God 
says to them, " Steal no more." " Yes, yes," they reply ; " we wo'nt 
steal a man's coat; but we must steal his reputation, his wages, and 
his liberty." "Let the oppressed go free," says God. "That we 
wo'nt," says the Negro Slave party. " The way of transgressors is 
hard," saith the Lord. " Ob, that," they cry, " is the fault of the 
sufferers, and their friends." God opens to them the pleasant way 
of love and holiness. But they hate that pleasant way, and sting 
themselves to death, while they are wasting the unoffending poor, 
and abusing every one who does not sympathize with them in their 
wickedness. 

Few, comparatively, of the Negro Slave proprietors are manag- 
ers. The actual authorities, generally in charge of the poor ne- 
groes, are hirelings, and have no other interest in them, than to 
wring out of them as much labor, year by year, as possible. With 
these men interest concurs with passion and opportunity, in wasting 
the negro. 

Of the few proprietors who are managers, very few indeed, are 
completely solvent. Overburdened, generally with debt, and deep- 
ly mortgaged, they are under pecuniary engagements of the heav- 
iest kind, to obtain, harvest by harvest, a stated quantity of produce. 



30 

and to consign it to the stipulated agencies. However much they 
may compassionate the negroes, or be awakened to their own per- 
manent interests, they have no alternative but immediate ruin, (as 
they deem ruin) or the fulfilment of their pecuniary engagements. 
The poor negro is the machine by which, season after season, the 
bond is solved ; and that bond can only be solved, as the admirers 
of slave labor are persuaded, by exacting from him by force, what- 
ever amount of exertion is requisite for its solution. 

Interest, worldly interest 1 mean, is dear to man ; it is like his 
right hand. But passion is dearer still. It is the apple of his eye. 
He will sacrifice body and soul for his money. But he will sacri- 
fice body and soul, and money too, for the gratification of his pas- 
sions. What tongue could utter the loathsome and bloody abomina- 
tions of negro slavery in this particular? The mind of the despot, 
in relation to the negro, is doubly seared. He outrages his brother, 
and rushes proudly to his own ruin, even as the war horse plunges 
into battle. 

3. But here is a difficulty. 

A man has purchased an estate in the West Indies of the value of 
£20,000. The enslaved British subjects on it, estimated at one 
half, or £10,000 : the lands and works at the remainder. 

He has a sudden call to convert his property into money, or he 
dies, and his executors are required to do the same, for the benefit 
of legatees. Now, while such a sale is in progress, or before it can 
be completed, if all the enslaved British subjects in the slave colo- 
nies were restored to their freedom, would not such property be 
largely depreciated, and would not the person in question sustain a 
heavy loss ? 

I reply, the case is an extreme one. Such cases might occur, 
but they would certainly be rare ; and even on the low ground of 
political expediency, the exception can never form the rule. It is 
unquestionably better in every sense, that a few criminal individuals 
should suffer a pecuniary loss, than that hundreds of thousands of 
innocent people, should continue bereaved of all that is most un- 
alienably the real property of man, and of all that is fundamentally 
dearest to every right feeling of the human heart. 

But will such a loss arise ; let us fairly see. 

Every body knows, that land of itself is worth little or nothing 
for human purposes. All, or almost all its value, depends upon the 
means of cultivating it. In a slave society, like that of Jamaica, as 
few or no laborers, except such as are enslaved can be procured for 
the purpose of cultivating land, the value of landed property rests 
eminently upon the number of enslaved laborers attached to it ; and 
this must continue as long as slavery continues. But if the slaves 
were freed, what would be the result ? There would at once be in 
Jamaica between three and four hundred thousand free laborers, de- 
pendant under God for the daily bread of themselves and families 



31 

upon their own labor. Every one who had land, could get a portion 
of them. The value of land, which had largely gone over to the 
slaves, because none but slaves could be got to cultivate it, would im- 
mediately revert to the land itself, because now its cultivation would 
be secured by free labor, without the waste of capital, and the over- 
whelming responsibilities of the slave system. This reversion of the 
value of the land, to the land, would be immediate in a measure ; it 
would necessarily increase with rapidity, and very soon, as is now 
the case in Maryland and elsewhere, the land and buildings alone, 
would be worth as much, without a single slave, as the same land 
and buildings now are, with all their outraged and unoffending poor. 

If the necessity, supposed in the case, were imperious and in- 
stant, so that the persons concerned could not without guilt, delay 
the sale, beyond the day immediately following the emancipation, it 
is probable some loss would be sustained. But not so much as the 
slave share of the purchase, because every one would immediately 
know, that the land was now valuable without slaves. But this is a 
case doubly extreme. The common necessities of sale, could clear- 
ly be postponed under such circumstances, for a reasonable time, 
and little or no loss need arise. For myself I am fully persuaded, 
that sales would early be effected, vastly more profitable to the ven- 
ders, than now could take place, or than ever can take place again, 
while we continue to defy God, by refusing to let his poor go free. 

They who can deem the risk of a portion of the money of a few, 
in a case scarcely to be supposed ; and that money, the money of 
the wrong-doers ; as of more value than the unforfeited right of the 
sufferer of wrong to his property in his own person, and in his own 
righteous liberty and earnings, may be stumbled at this difficulty if 
they please. I leave them, with an earnest intreaty to study solemn- 
ly and prayerfully, the 58th chapter of Isaiah, and the beginning of 
the 5th of James. 

But why don't the Government do its duty, and at once abolish 
this atrocious system ? 

The only reasons that I can see, are, 1st. That Slave Masters 
are members of the Government. And what, with this cancer in 
its bosom, and the dreadful influence of the Slave party without; 
pervading as it does, almost every corner of our empire, and holding 
often the highest in its trammels, — the Government, however willing, 
has not been able alone. And 2ndly. That the nation, by purcha- 
sing and consuming the produce of the Slave Colonies, at once sup- 
ports Slavery, and unnerves all its efforts, and all its petitions against 
it. It is building up with both hands, what it is calling upon others 
to pull down. 

Two or three brief observations may be added. 

If the negroes be fit for liberty, there is no excuse, but such as 
felons use, for keeping them in bondage. 



32 

If the negroes be not fit for liberty, the fault must be in our negro 
slave system ; since it is undeniable, that the native Africans can at 
once be landed from the captured slave ships, as free men, the sub- 
jects of law, with the most perfect safety to the public and them- 
selves. fc 

If we would keep them slaves, in order to prepare them for lib- 
erty, where shall we find right agents for the evolution of our benev- 
olent purpose ? The West India planters have always been an hon- 
orable body. They have had the negroes in their hands for nearly 
three centuries ; and they themselves declare that the negroes are 
not yet prepared. There is another body, more honorable still, the 
Bishops with His Grace of Canterbury at their head, who have had 
a slave estate, (Codrington's Estate, Barbadoes,) for upwards of a 
hundred years in their possession, and by their own last report, pub- 
lished but a few months back, the negroes on it were not yet fit for 
liberty. 

Where could we find better agents? Or can present or future 
slave masters be more wisely trusted with the liberties of their un- 
offending fellow subjects than those that are passed ; while still they 
remain men, and the dreadful influences of despotic authority retain 
the same power as ever over the human heart ? Which of us, that 
has a father's spirit, could be willing that our child, imbruted by 
Turkish bondage, should remain in bondage to the Turk, that his 
Turkish master might prepare him for liberty before he set him 
free ? And what difference is there between this case and ours, ex- 
cept that a Bible is more guilty than a Koran land, where it wrongs 
its unoffending brother ! 

Outline for Immediate Emancipation. 

A Parliamentary enactment, abolishing at once and altogether, the 
Negro Slave system, throughout the British dominions. 

This should be transmitted, immediately after its completion, with 
all requisite authority, to the slave colonies; and, at the conclusion of 
the few days which might be requisite to prepare for its promulga- 
tion, it ought to be promulgated and put in force. 

The negroes should remain amenable to the common Statute Laws 
of Great Britain, together with such local regulations, as might be 
suitable in their recovered capacity, as free and righted British sub- 
jects. 

All compulsory labor will be at an end, except for crime, by fair 
course of law, and equitable wages will be the stimulus, and the re- 
ward of the negro's toil. 

All great and sudden changes, being liable to difficulties from the 
very nature of the human mind, the change which we are now con- 
templating, should be no greater than duty requires — and therefore^ 
while duty is satisfied, by converting the slave of private and irres- 



33 

ponsible caprice, into the subject of public and equitable authority, 
such regulations should be enacted, as might best provide for the 
public good, on the righteous basis of equal law. 

A public provision should be made for the maimed and incurably 
diseased negroes. 

All difference in law, on account of color, to be abolished. 

The details of this outline can be filled up, only by the proper 
authorities, All that seems wanting for its completion is, — 

That the negro slave party should open their eyes, and cultivate, 
instead of destroying, both their own interests, and the unoffending 
poor. 

That whether the negro slave party will open their eyes or not, 
the government should do its duty, by at once and totally abolishing 
this atrocious crime, leaving the pecuniary question between the 
criminals to be settled by due course of law. 

That in order to give the government the strength which it needs 
on this subject, the people should more and more urgently and nu- 
merously petition. 

That in order to give their petitions all their force, the people 
should abstain from slave produce, as far as possible, and especially 
from that dreadful article, slave sugar, which adds slaughter to 
slavery. 

And, as each individual's duty is perfectly independent of the 
concurrence or opposition of others, that each individual should be 
faithful unto death, in doing all that he can in a christian temper and 
a christian manner, towards obtaining immediate obedience to the 
divine command, to "let the oppressed go free." 

Should it yet be said — But why not leave the matter to govern- 
ment ? I reply, 

1st. The measures still pursuing by government, are fundamental- 
ly the same as those pursued since 1823; that is, they continue either 
to leave legislation for the benefit of the oppressed, to the discretion 
of their oppressors ; or they aim at the mitigation, instead of the ex- 
tinction of crime. While the government has been dallying over 
these measures, exposed to the scoffs, and the insults, and the almost 
treasonous opposition of the slave party, upwards of 30,000 of our 
unoffending fellow subjects have been deliberately slaughtered in 
cold blood; and upwards of 200,000 have died in slavery; and are 
prepared with all their unredressed wrongs about them, to meet us 
at the bar of God. From 1824 to 1831, between 4000 and 5000 
yearly destroyed in sugar. The natural deaths, in the same period, 
amongst 800,000, must have been at least 200,000. 

2nd. The half-way measures of the British government, and the 
liberty which it has taken to connive at the actual continuance of 
the great crime of negro slavery, while it has been feebly aiming at 
its future extinction, have encouraged other nations in their wicked- 
ness. Crime, to be prevented, must be deprived of countenance ; 

5 



34 

and the temptations, which lead to it, must be removed. Immediate 
emancipation, under wise and benignant regulations, would do this : 
but half-way measures countenance the crime, and supply it with 
temptation. 

3rd. The act of legislature, which shall substitute the dominion of 
wise and equitable laws, for that of private and irresponsible caprice, 
will be more easy of execution, than any merely ameliorating acts 
can be. In the former case, legislature will be simple, uniform, and 
just; and the interests of all parties being fairly consulted, the inter- 
ests of all will harmonize. But, in the latter, legislation itself ex- 
ceedingly complicated, will have to contend with a discordant mass 
of hostile and repellent powers. Each plantation will remain, as it 
is, a little " imperium in imperio," at variance with the supreme 
government, and in a state of smothered warfare within itself; the 
interests, as he deems them, of the master, on the one side, being, 
from the very nature of things, at irreconcilable variance, with the 
interests on the other, of the oppressed negro, and of the nation, 
disgraced by the poor man's wrongs. 

4th. The discordances of legislation, introduced into our slave 
colonies, by the various sources, British, Spanish, French, Dutch, 
Pirate, &c. from which we have derived them, will present a laby- 
rinth of legalized subterfuge and impediment, beyond all possibility 
of efficient correction, by mitigating measures; and amidst the mazes 
of which, "Negro Slavery" may safely crouch, crying out "Ameli- 
oration" and despising the cries of the negro's blood ; as long as the 
gradual system, with its half policies, vacillating between right and 
wrong, continues to afford it covert. 

5th. But let the simple, wise, and equitable dominion of British 
law, be substituted by the supreme authorities of the state, for the 
negro slave system ; and at once, the otherwise insuperable difficul- 
ties which now oppress us, will disappear : the wickedness which is 
a lion in the face of indecision, is a lamb when confronted by dute- 
ous energy; and truth, and love, and lawful liberty, will take place 
of avarice, tyranny, and lust, and blood. Policy will be succeeded 
by wisdom. Temporising between right and wrong, will be sup- 
planted by decision in right ; and our eight hundred thousand en- 
slaved and outraged negro fellow-subjects, will no longer blazon our 
inconsistency and hypocrisy over the world, whenever we boast of 
our liberty. 



APPENDIX. ON COMPENSATION, 



In Negro Slavery, there are two parties. — The wrong doers, and 
the sufferers of wrong. 

Whatever may become of the wrong doers, the sufferers clearly 
ought not to continue to be wronged. 

The wrong doers consist of two classes. 1st. The Negro Slave 
party ; that is, every body who has, or rather, who thinks he has, any 
direct interest in the continuance of the outrage. And, 2nd. The rest 
of the nation. 

The beginning of this outrage, was the crime of the Negro Slave 
party. Sir John or Captain Hawkins, by imposing upon his sovereign, 
and by making himself a merchant in the liberties and blood of his 
unoffending fellow men, for sake of lucre, was its infamous founder. 
(I speak of Great Britain only.) 

At a subsequent period, the Government, to its everlasting disgrace, 
threw itself into the enterprise, and took a dreadful lead ; but even 
then, in the height of its guilt, the Government retained a degree of 
integrity. In the debate of 1792, as quoted by Clarkson, vol. ii, p. 
433, adducing Act 23. Geo. II. c. 31. 

"No master of a sbip trading to Africa, shall by fraud, force or violence, or by 
any indirect practice whatever, take on board, or carry away from that coast, any 
Negro, or native of that country, or commit any violence on the natives, to the 
prejudice of the said trade; and every person ■ so offending, shall, for every such 
offence, forfeit £100." Mr. Pitt adds, " But the whole trade had been demonstrated 
to be a system of fraud, force, and violence ; and therefore, the contract was daily 
violated, under which the parliament allowed it to continue." 

And who were the violators ? Not the nation or the government, 
but the negro slave party ! 

Virginia and Jamaica, it is true, petitioned for the abolition of the 
African Slave Trade; and the government rejected their petition. But 
the motives for the petition and for its rejection, were of one stamp. 
Both were alike sordid, — and in moral estimation, are records, not of 
praise, but of infamy. 

When, at a subsequent period, the African Slave Trade was ac- 
knowledged by government to be what it always had been, felony, and 
was abolished by law, the negro slave party clave only the more firm- 
ly to their idol, its hideous parent, Colonial Slavery, which, in the 
nature of. things, is equally felony j and for many years past, they have 
been resisting alike the influence of the government, the remonstran- 
ces of the nation, the voice of humanity, and the commands of God, 
in support of their destructive system. All that talent, wealth, high 
connections, union, energy, lust, pride, prejudice, selfishness, deluded 
passion, and perverted judgment, could do, to support the outrage, has 
been done by them ; and through their influence, chiefly, this intol- 



36 

erable disgrace still rankles in our bosom. I say, chiefly — not entire- 
ly — because, by purchasing and consuming their produce, especially 
their bloodbought sugars, we continue to purchase and encourage the 
crime. 

These facts should be always kept in mind, when we discuss the 
subject of Compensation. I speak of them in a general sense, disre- 
garding the exceptions ; and in this sense, I proceed to observe : 

1st. If the criminal, however sanctioned by legal wickedness like 
his own, have no just claim to compensation, when arrested in his 
iniquity ; then the plunderers of the rights, and the destroyers of the 
lives, of their guiltless fellow subjects, will have no such claim, if a 
lawful stop be put to their cruel and destructive system. 

2nd. If compensation be due to the sufferers of wrong, and not to 
the perpetrators of it, then, all the compensation is due to the op- 
pressed. 

3d. If compensation for loss never can be due, till the fact of loss, 
and an equitable claim, be substantiated ; no compensation can be 
due, in the case before us, till the proof of such loss is supplied, and 
a just claim to remuneration be established. 

4th, If the compensation claimed, be a claim of equity, that claim 
must have the support of the Divine law. But every principle of the 
Divine law, is against the claim in question here, as far as relates to 
keeping the unoffending negroes another moment in bondage. 

5th. If it be a political claim, it must be supported by political 
rights. But, in the present case, the British law is fundamentally ad- 
verse to it. The charters of the Slave Colonies do not support it. 
The British character loathes it. Customs inherited from pirates, and 
a law of custom, worthy of pirates only, together with Colonial Stat- 
utes, defining its existing enormities, are its sole grounds — its sandy, 
yet terrible foundation. 

6th. If it be a commercial claim, it must be sanctioned by the es- 
tablished principles of commerce. But every merchant exposes him- 
self to all the reverses which may meet him in his speculations. 
When he has had sufficient warning, he is doubly without a claim. 
And when his speculations partake of robbery and murder, all that he 
has a right to claim, is the robber's and the murderer's meed. 

7th. If it be a claim to benevolence, it must make out a case of dis- 
tress, not the result of the claimant's own obstinacy in wickedness. 
In the case before us, the case of general distress seems amply made 
out; but the evidence is still more ample, that this distress is entirely 
the result of the dreadful infatuation in sin, of the claimant ; that he 
has the remedy within his power ; and that nothing, but his own 
unbending wickedness, has prevented, or now prevents the remedy. 

8th. If the claim pretend to any degree of rectitude, it must be con- 
patible with the equal or superior rights of others. But this seems 
entirely overlooked by the slave-masters, in their "a priori" claims 
for compensation. So sordidly selfish are their views, that no evi- 
dence can be traced, in any of their proceedings, of their having the 
least remembrance, that the negroes whom they oppress, are their 
brother men, entitled, by the law of their God, to their love : that the 



37 

poor negroes, whose liberties they are plundering, and on whose 
plundered wages they are living, are their fellow subjects, and have a 
better claim to the king's protection, than they themselves have : thaft 
the oppressed negroe3 have suffered wrongs from them, and from the 
nation, which worlds of gold, and ages of holy and undissembling love, 
could not repay. 

9th. If the claim demand a sum of money, equal to the full existing 
value of the negro, this and more than this, the claimants have already 
received. The oppressed negroes themselves, have amply paid it, by 
the net profits of their toil. The only difference is, that if the nation 
had paid it, they would have received it, all at once, in the mere sum, 
of £24,000,000 ; estimating, in round numbers, that there are 800,000 
of our fellow subjects thus oppressed in the Colonies, and that the 
price of each of these, upon an average, is £30. Whereas, receiving 
it, as they have done, by daily instalments, they have received a large 
addition in compound interest. Here let it also be observed, that the 
nation is already two hundred millions out of pocket by the Slave 
Colonies ; and that in any legal balancing of pecuniary accounts, this 
fact must be estimated. 

10th. Whether, however, we reject or admit the claim of compen- 
sation, the most convincing arguments, alike of theory and of fact, 
are not wanting to prove, that the advantages of free labor, would 
greatly increase the value of the estates, so as in a short time, to ren- 
der the land alone worth as much as land and negroes both together 
now are; and would greatly improve the income of the proprietors. 
And these arguments are so conclusive, that it would be much more 
reasonable for the slave masters to purchase beforehand, from the 
nation, the advantages of immediate emancipation, by an advance of 
millions, than it would be in the nation to pay beforehand, for an ap- 
prehended loss, which there is abundant reason to believe will never 
arise. 

Still, the claim is boldly and loudly reiterated. Here is what may- 
be further said. 

The quantity of produce on each plantation is annually sworn to for 
internal taxation, in the slave colonies. 

The quantity of exported produce, is, or ought to be, duly recorded 
in passing through the Custom House. 

The number of enslaved British subjects on each plantation, is an- 
nually sworn to, for internal taxation. 

The same thing is done triennially, stating age, sex, &c. for the 
three yearly returns to the supreme Government. 

The books of each plantation contain lists of all the enslaved British 
subjects on the plantation, with their various employments, &c. 

On these and other data, means of accurate information are always 
at hand. With respect to the effect of making the negroes at once 
the subjects of wise and benignant laws, instead of leaving them the 
slaves of private caprice, the negro slave party, and the rest of the 
nation, that is, the two parties of criminals, are at variance. The 
negro slave party, will have it, that a man labors most profitably for 
his employer, when compelled to do so, whether he likes it or not, 



38 

The rest of the nation is equally confident, that willing labor stimu- 
lated by the laborer's own wants, and interests, and affections, must 
always be the most profitable for all parties. The negro slave party, 
insisting on their view, scream out against us, as if we were going to 
ruin them, by giving them voluntary, instead of. forced labor ; and de- 
mand compensation for loss, before they have sustained any. The 
nation can see in their clamour, nothing but the infatuation which 
characterizes the whole of their dreadful system. The negro slave 
party rejoin, '• but you are our accomplices, and you ought to bear 
your share of the loss." The nation says, "where is the loss? There 
will not be a negro less in Jamaica ; the land will not fly away. The 
militia, which is chiefly composed of the free colored and black peo- 
ple, are loyal. The national troops will not become less numerous or 
brave. Our ships will be as fleet in crossing the sea. The laws will 
only change, by being converted from a system, worthy only of 
pirates, into a system of benignity and equal handed justice. Love and 
gratitude, and a sense of lawful security in property and person, cer- 
tainly will not be a less efficient curb, than a system of legislation, 
which wrongs all real right, and stimulates its sufferers more and more 
fiercely to revenge, and madness, and despair. Where is the loss ? 
says the nation, we can see none. It is true, that we have been your 
accomplices in this atrocious crime, but our guilt is a reason, not for 
continuing, but for abolishing it : neither should we be justifiable in 
remaining your accomplices, because you still prefer your money or 
your pride, to the rights of your unoffending fellow subjects ; rights 
the most sacred which man can have on earth ; rights which they have 
never forfeited ; rights, which for the time being, are entrusted to our 
care, and to which, they have a claim more sacred far, than you have 
to the comparative dross, the fear of losing a portion of which, almost 
maddens you. Where is the loss? We are not going to take from 
you your laborers, or any lawful power over your laborers ; we are 
only going to deprive you of the power of insulting, and polluting, 
and plundering, and abusing them, with impunity. We are only going 
to remove from you, a temptation to wrong, too great for man to bear. 
We are not going to give you the labor of a brute of the same physi- 
cal strength, instead of the labor of a man; but we are going to restore 
to the man whom you have imbruted, the mind which alone can give 
to his physical strength, all its efficiency, and this efficiency will be 
left with you ; his physical strength, which force could not bring out, 
but which, from the very nature of the human mind, force blighted, 
will be restored to you, not only with all its animal energy fully de- 
veloped, but enhanced by all the powers of mind of which he may 
be master. Whei'e then, we say, is the loss?" "Oh, we are sure 
that we shall suffer a loss," say the slave party; "and as our money, 
or rather a portion of it, is of much more importance than our God, 
or our king, or our country, or our souls, we must have money, before 
the oppressed shall be let go free." " We have sinned too long al- 
ready," replies the nation, "in sharing and in suffering your guilt. 
Rulers from God, are 'a terror to evil doers,' and not their accomplices. 
We dare no longer defy Him, by continuing to keep you company, 






39 

The king's subjects must not be left the slaves of the king's subjects. 
The law which has been outraged, must be restored without delay to 
its integrity. The oppressed must be let go free. This is our first 
duty ; and it is a duty perfectly separate from the balancing and set- 
tling of the vile accounts which we, the wrong doers, have between 
ourselves. But as we cordially agree, that having been your accom- 
plices in the crime, should the fulfilling of our first and great duty in 
this particular, subject you to inequitable loss, we ought to bear a fair 
portion of the penalty ; you have only to assert and substantiate 
your claim to compensation, as soon as you have really suffered a 
loss; and we pledge ourselves not to be wanting in justice to you. 
The data already enumerated, together with other evidence, will al- 
ways amply supply us with the means of coming to a fair decision. 
The question of letting the oppressed go free, and of restoring to His 
Majesty's unoffending subjects, the unforfeited rights of which they have 
been so long and so criminally deprived, is one thing. This must be 
first and independently set at rest. The question of mutual duty be- 
tween the wrong doers, is another thing. And the proper time for 
discussing it, will be, when any claim is peaceably advanced and sup- 
ported openly, and fairly and lawfully established by either party of 
the criminals against the other." 

Suppose, then, that our wishes were accomplished ! 

Suppose that the government should cease to defy and mistrust God ; 
and that in its deliberate wisdom, as God's minister, it should to-mor- 
row enact a law, at once abolishing the whole slave system, and in- 
stituting in its place, a law, worthy of free and Bible-England. Sup- 
pose that the unoffending and loyal negro, should thus at once be re- 
stored to the king, whose subject he is ; and be delivered from the 
despot of the plantations, whose slave he is not for a moment, except 
by laws and customs, which are the stain and the curse, even of the 
pirate. Suppose, I say, that this were done ; and that it were accom- 
panied with every truly wise and righteous precaution; for this, and 
this only r is what we are urging. What would be the difference? 

Let us take Jamaica for our example. 

Would God keep it less firmly on its watery bed, because now the 
laborer there, was no longer plundered of his wages ; and because the 
master now no longer stiffened his neck against his God, or hardened 
his heart against his brother ? Who can believe it ? 

What would be the difference ? 

Would the lands assume a double sterility, because the causes which 
are producing their sterility, were removed ? Would the land, which 
refuses to yield its strength to the nerveless and heartless arm of 
the slave, become doubly barren, beneath the cordial arm of the 
freeman ? 

Would the master whose beauteous fields are of no use to him, with- 
out labor, keep them waste, and ruin himself with two-fold rapidity, 
merely because he hated free labor, and still hankered after the long 
idolized lusts of slavery ? Would he make a wilderness about him, 
where, amidst the unfettered developments of every holy and tender 
affection, he might, if he would, make a paradise? 



40 

What would the master want? — He would want laborers. Where 
could he get them? — From the emancipated negroes only. 

Would he not rather leave his lands waste, and ruin himself, than 
hire them? — It cannot be supposed. 

But would it not cost him more, to hire free laborers, than it does 
to keep slaves? — Certainly not ; for it is clearly ascertained, that hired 
laborers, always, as a general rule, cost less than slave laborers. How 
do you prove this ? — By the existing fact in our own colonies. 

We have free-sugar colonies ; and we have slave-sugar colonies. 
Our free-sugar colonies are at the distance of 15,000 miles from us. 
Our slave-sugar colonies are only about 5,000. This greater distance 
imposes upon our free-sugar, a freight, &c. double or treble that which 
is upon our slave-sugar. In addition to this, there is a heavier duty, 
by 8 shillings per cwt. upon our free, than upon our slave-sugar. Yet 
soft, free sugar, of the same quality and fineness, from Id. a pound, 
upwards, may be had as cheap as slave. That is, free labor, is actu- 
ally in our own colonies, so much cheaper than slave labor, that free 
labor sugar can bear a double or treble freight, and a heavier duty, 
by nearly a penny a pound, than slave-sugar ; and yet be sold as cheap 
in our markets. 

But how do you account for this ? 

In working an estate by slave labor, the slaves must be purchased. 
Say 300 slaves. The average price, we will estimate at £30 per slave. 
Here, then, at the outset, is an expense of £9,000. But this expense 
is entirely saved, upon the free-labor system. 

These 300 slaves are of all descriptions ; young and old ; sick and 
well; weak and strong; men and women. One third or 100 of them 
at most, are efficient laborers ; another third, perhaps, may yield 
some profit ; but one third must be unprofitable, provided they are 
treated with any degree of liberality. A large proportion of the 
slaves, therefore, although a great capital has been sunk in their 
purchase, must be a dead weight. But this need not be the case, and 
generally is not the case with a single free laborer, although nothing 
has been sunk to obtain him. 

The fact is, that the slave master, by his infatuated system, after 
sinking an immense capital, has to support a large proportion of un- 
profitable laborers ; while, even out of those that are profitable, he 
does not, and cannot get half their strength ; the slave, as a law of 
human nature, " eating and wasting as much, and woi'king as little as 
he can." But the proprietor, by free labor, is exempt from all this. 
He sinks no capital in order to obtain his laborers. He keeps no la- 
borers, but such as he actually wants ; and generally speaking, he 
gets out of all whom he employs, the cheerful product of their 
strength. 

But would the emancipated negroes work ? Why should they not ? 

They will have nothing but their labor, under God, to depend 
upon. They will have no house of their own ; no land of their own; 
no money of their own. Why should they not labor ? 

They generally love with devotion, the habitations to which they 
have been accustomed. Sir William Young, formerly governor of 



41 

Tobago, says, "The Creole slave is attached to his place of birth and 
home, as strongly as Goldsmith's peasantry, wandering from the De- 
serted Village." Their native character is eminently yielding, sub- 
missive, and grateful. They love superfluities and finely, as much, 
at least, as other men. Why should they not labor 1 

They must labor, or leave their abodes, so dear to them, in spite of 
slavery and suffering. They must labor or starve. They must labor, 
or see their mothers, wives, and children perishing. Why should 
they not labor ? 

The question is absurd. 

Of course they would labor, — and labor well ; and while their la- 
bor, being free and cheerful, would not consume themselves, its will- 
ing vigor would yield a double or treble profit to their employers. 

But the slave masters say, that we are going to take their property 
from them. 

What do they mean ? 

Do they mean that we are going to take their negroes from them ? 
If they do, they are under a mistake ; we do not even think of taking 
their negroes from them. 

What do you purpose then, say they, by emancipating our negroes? 

We mean merely to take from you, the legalized power of abusing 
and wronging them with impunity. 

But would not that be taking them away from us ? — certainly not. 

How do you prove it ? 

The value of your negro to you, consists of three several divisions. 
1st. The money which is sunk in his price and in his keeping. 2nd. 
His labor, and 3d. The value which you could get for him, should you 
sell him. The first of these actually produces nothing to you, but is 
a heavy drawback. The second, viz. his labor, is your only present 
profit. And the third, is merely a security for interest to come. 

Now what must be the effect upon these several relations, of the de- 
liverance of the negro from your legalized power to abuse and wrong 
him ? 

The only difference will be, the difference between cultivating your 
estate by free and by slave labor. The money sunk, will remain the 
same. It will neither be increased nor diminished by the righting 
of the negro. His labor alone, is your actual advantage. Now, if 
any means can be devised, whereby, you can get him to labor more 
profitably for you, at a less expense, you will clearly be a gainer. But 
emancipation will do this for you — not gradual emancipation, or 
half-way emancipation, which will leave his moral powers crippled, 
and his moral feelings outraged, and his moral motives chilled ; but 
emancipation, such as is his right, and such as power only, disgraced 
and perverted, keeps from him for a moment. As a free laborer, he 
will cost you less wages, than together with the unprofitable members 
of his family, he now costs you ; and as a willing laborer, he will 
work more profitably for you, than your cart-whip, or your stocks can 
ever compel him to do. 

But where should we get funds to carry on our cultivation, if our 
property were taken from us ? 

6 



42 

Your property would not be taken from you. It would be improv- 
ed. The capital which is sunk in your negroes, is sunk. It does 
not now supply your current expenditure ; but on the contrary, is a 
heavy burthen to you. You must have other sources of supply for 
your current expenses ; these will not be touched by the emancipation 
in question ; but they will rather be benefited by the comparative se- 
curity which results from the harmony instituted between the negroes' 
interests and your own. 

But should I wish to sell, where is my money ? The capital sunk in 
my negroes, will surely then be gone, as I shall have no negroes to 
sell. 

Not so. — Although you will have no negroes to sell, you will have 
a substitute, equally, or more valuable. You will have the recovered 
value of your land. Wherever slavery prevails, land without slaves, 
is of little or no use ; and as the purchase of slaves is very heavy, 
and the possession is always precarious and dangerous ; few, compar- 
atively, can embark in the speculation. The finest land remains, as 
it were, a drug, because ten thousand acres of it, without slaves, where 
you can get no other laborers, must remain a wilderness. But abolish 
slavery, and at once you have as many free laborers as you had 
slaves, each standing in the market anxious for employment. Get 
one hundred acres then, and you can immediately render it productive 
by hiring such laborers as you need for its cultivation. Thus the land 
resumes its value ; and in its recovered and increasing worth, you 
have an ample security for the capital sunk, whenever you may wish 
to sell. 

But the negroes will leave us. 

We can see no reason to believe it — except, indeed, you be one of 
these wretches, who, by the atrocities of despotic power, doubly abu- 
sed, have succeeded in awakening wrath even in the kind negro's bo- 
som, and have convinced him beyond denial, that his only alternative 
for peace is to leave you. In every other case, why should he go ? 
To whom should he go ? Whither could he go ? He would not leave 
you — he could, as a general truth, have no motive for leaving you. 
Every motive which wields the heart of man, would require him to 
stay. He would want his cot — where could he get another, should 
he leave you ? He would want his field — where could he get a better ? 
He would want a master to hire him. Why should he leave you, if 
you have not proved to him beyond contradiction, that you are singu- 
larly unfit to be trusted? If he went from you, it would not be we, 
who took him away, but it would be yourself alone, who drove him 
from you. All that we should have done, would be to take away 
from him the motives which you are now giving him to leave you if 
he could; and to make it his interest, and his honor, and his happi- 
ness, to remain with you, secured alike with yourself, beneath the 
sacred and pleasant panoply of righteous law. 

Here we ought to observe, that there is one class of the criminals 
not included in the preceding remarks. These are the Jobbers as 
they are called, who have slaves, but have no lands. Much of the 
force of what has been said, clearly does not apply to them. If their 






43 

slaves were to be freed, they would lose their slave property, and 
many of them have none other. In a moral and everlasting sense, 
the emancipation of their negroes, would be to them also, an unspeak- 
ably important benefit : but in a pecuniary sense, they would be losers. 
I stop here, merely to notice, not to discuss the fact ; and I will simp- 
ly add, that in the vast expanse of fertile lands, which still belong to 
the government in the slave colonies, the amplest means exist of ma- 
king every provision for them, which compassion or equity can de- 
mand, without the expense of a shilling to the nation. 

Should it further be said, " admitting your whole argument, still, 
as the present proprietors might suffer by the foreclosure of mortga- 
ges through the fears of mortgagees, upon such an extreme change of 
circumstances, and through the unwillingness of capitalists to risk 
their funds during the uncertainty, which for the time at least, would 
be suspended over the event ; and as you have unquestionably been 
accomplices in the crime, you, as unquestionably, ought to share in 
the loss." We may observe, that the government might provide 
against this apprehended danger, by making loans, wherever requi- 
site, upon the same security as other mortgagees, at three or four per 
cent, to the present proprietors, wherever they might need funds, in 
order to enable them to contend fairly with whatever difficulties might 
arise. By this means, the proprietors would have an easier and more 
certain command of money, at one half or one third of the expense 
to which they are now exposed, and the government, without coun- 
tenancing the impious claim of compensation, as antecedent for a mo- 
ment, or as in any degree an equal duty, to the immediate rescue of 
the king's unoffending subjects from the petty despots of the planta- 
tions, would provide against loss to its partners in guilt, as far as hu- 
man help can provide ; while in the increased value of land in the col- 
onies ; in the newly acquired security of property ; in the extension 
of commerce ; and in the general happiness of the people, it would 
be itself as secure, as human things can be. 



X 



