r A 'l<£^?t * <^<^ £-2^ ^$^g7V 



LETTER 

TO 

WILLIAM W. WHITMORE, ESQ. MP. 

Pointing out some of the 

ERRONEOUS STATEMENTS 

CONTAINED IN A 

PAMPH1LET 

BY 

JOSEPH MARRYAT, ESQ. M.P. 

ENTITLED 

" A REPLY 

TO THE 

ARGUMENTS 

Contained in 

VARIOUS PUBLICATIONS, 

Recommending an 

EQUALIZATION 

OF THE 

Huttea on ISaat anti ffi23e$t Eitfcta g?ttgat*»" 



BY THE AUTHOR OF A PAMPHLET 

ENTITLED 

" EAST A#D WEST INDIA SUGAR." 



s LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR LUPTON RELFE, 

13, CORNHILL; 
AND HATCHARD AND SON, PICCADILLY. 



» 



1823. 



(t£-?S8*'4YWl* 



Marc ha nt, Printer, Ingram Court, Fenchurch Street. 



A LETTER, 

Sfc. 8fc. 



My dear Sir, 

You have requested me to furnish you with any 
observations which may have occurred to me on the perusal of 
Mr. Marryat's Reply to some recent pamphlets on the Sugar ques- 
tion. I proceed to comply with your request, premising that 
both the shortness of the time allowed me (your motion on the 
subject being announced for the 19th instant) and the state of 
my own health will oblige me to omit some of the topics, on 
which, under other circumstances, it would be easy to show, 
that the statements of that gentleman are as erroneous and his 
reasonings as inconclusive as I hope to prove that they are on 
those which I have the means of investigating. 

The first point to which I shall advert, and perhaps the most 
important of all, is the attempt made by this author to pro- 
duce the impression, that the sugars brought to this country 
from British India are grown by slaves. He does not deny, 
(indeed, that fact cannot be made the subject of controversy,) 
that the sugars of the British West Indies are cultivated ex- 
clusively by slaves ; but he labours to make it believed, that 
the sugars, also, of Bengal are cultivated by slaves. This I 

B 



2 

i 

had unequivocally denied. I had affirmed, that in Bengal 
sugar was " certainly not'^ cultivated by slaves. Mr. Mar- 
ryat, " in contradiction," as he says, " to this bold assertion," 
quotes a passage from the Report lately made by the Court of 
Directors of the East India Company, on the culture of sugar- 
in India, which he wishes to be regarded as a satisfactory refu- 
tation of my statement. Now, when the author cited this 
passage, he must have had in his hands the whole of that vo- 
luminous Report. It is also evident that he had read it with 
considerable care ; for he has selected with great ingenuity 
every line in it which on this part of the case could be made 
to suit his purpose. He, therefore, may be presumed to have 
read the various passages which I am about to cite. 

The first is taken from the consultations of the Bengal Board 
of Trade, of the 7th August, 1792, inserted in the First Ap- 
pendix, p. 51 to 60, and is as follows : — 

" Of the price" [of sugar] " in the West Indies, the Board 
have not accurate information ; but a short comparison of 
the condition of the cultivators of the ground in Jhe West- 
India islands with those of this country, will show the proba- 
bility of its always being more expensive to raise sugar there 
than in Bengal. The agriculture of the former is carried on 
under circumstances so forced and unnatural that while they 
excite the indignation and pity of the philosopher, they create 
his astonishment that a concurrence of incidents in human 
affairs could ever have established them. In order to obtain a 
rude produce of the ground, human beings have been forced 
from a country about 4000 miles distant from that which they 
are to cultivate ; and whatever may have been their former 
condition or habits of life are compelled to the rudest toil. 
None of the West-India labourers are Aborigines; none of 
them are freemen. The whole are slaves imported as above 
described, or the descendants of such imports ; and their po- 
pulation is so continually on the decrease that regular supplies 
from Africa are deemed necessary to keep up the requisite 



number. So confined are the territories of these islands, at 
least of the British West-India islands, and several of the 
French, that without neglecting those productions which are 
the objects of northern nations, they are unable to furnish the 
food necessary for the support of their own inhabitants. Grain, 
flour, salt-meat, and salt-fish, are carried at a great expense 
from the distant regions of Europe and North America, and 
form the principal subsistence of the slaves. 

" It is superfluous to- dwell upon the heavy charge of the 
establishment of overseers and superintendents requisite for 
urging the labour of slaves ; but it is sufficient to observe, that 
the expense of obtaining the produce of the ground by such 
means will be necessarily above the natural level. 

" In this country (Bengal), the cultivator is either the im- 
mediate proprietor of the ground, or he hires it, as in Europe, 
of the proprietor, and uses his discretion in cultivating what 
he thinks best adapted to the nature of the soil, or the demand 
of the market. One field produces sugar, the next wheat, 
rice, or cotton. The husbandman is nourished and clothed 
from his own ground ; or, if he thinks it more his interest to 
sell the whole of his own produce, supplies himself and family 
with the necessaries of life from his neighbour or from the 
next public market. 

" In the British West-India islands, the value of a seasoned 
ordinary man-slave, in the prime of life, is about £60, say 600 
current rupees, and the interest of money is there about 6 per 
cent. ; consequently, 36 current rupees per annum is the value 
of the stock per head, supposing the stock permanent ; * which 
is 'more than the average price of labour in this country. The 
death of the slaves decreases the stock in the proportion, 
taking the matter in a general view, that the number of slaves 

* The interest of money invested in the purchase of slaves cannot be fairly 
reckoned at less than 10 per cent, but this is independent of the food and 
clothing and medical attendance, &c which the slave requires; of the taxes 
paid for him ; and of the various other disadvantages accompanying slavery. 

b2 



born iu the islands are insufficient to keep up the requisite 
number without importations from Africa. The Bengal 
peasantry are freemen ; and are, in the usual course of 
nature, replaced by their children. 

" Other circumstances have their effects. The West-India 
slave has no interest in the success of his labour. A good crop 
alleviates not his condition ; a bad one renders it not worse, 
while he receives his daily ration of European or American 
grain and salt provision. There is no cheering motive to ani- 
mate his industry. The proprietor of the estate often resides 
in Europe, and leaves the management to hired servants, to the 
consequences of whose knavery and negligence he is open, 
while his slaves are exposed to their want of humanity. 

" The Bengal peasant is actuated by the ordinary wants and 
desires of mankind. His family assist his labour and sooth his 
toil, and the sharp eye of personal interest guides his judgment. 

l( In the West Indies the whole labour of the ground is per- 
formed by hand, with the spade or hoe. Here the ox and 
plough, as in Europe, lessen the labour of man, and facilitate 
the productions of the earth."* 

The above lucid and satisfactory statement is followed by a great 
number of Reports from the Residents and Collectors in different 
provinces belonging to the presidency of Bengal, and extending 
nearly to the end of the first Appendix, through more than 
200 closely-printed folio pages. In these Reports there is not 
a single syllable to be found which contradicts the view given 
of the subject by the Bengal Board of Trade. Could any such 
contradiction have been extracted from them, the diligent re- 

* If you will take the trouble to turn to the pamphlet on East and West 
India Sugar, p. 89 — 95, you cannot fail to observe the exact coincidence of 
the statements there made (and which Mr. Marryat would represent as so falla- 
cious) with those contained in the above extract from an authentic official 
document. And this is the more remarkable, as I was not aware of the ex- 
istence of this indisputable authority on the subject, until my own statements 
were already before the public. 



D 



search of the author of the Reply would, doubtless, have dis- 
covered it. On the contrary, the existence of slavery, as a con- 
dition of society, in Bengal, is not once alluded to by any of the 
reporters ; although, had the cultivation of sugar been conducted 
by slave-labour, it would have been impossible for them to have 
avoided the recognition of it. They have given us a variety 
of minute and detailed calculations of the cost of raising sugar ; 
but the value of slaves or the expense of maintaining them is 
not once hinted at. There is no more allusion to slave-labour, 
in any part of those numerous and voluminous Reports, than 
there would be to slave-labour in a report on the expense of 
cultivating wheat in Shropshire or in Norfolk ; or than there 
would be to the hire of free labourers in a report on the ex- 
pense attending the culture of sugar in Jamaica, Barbadoes, 
or Demerara. 

1 shall copy one or two of these estimates, the first that 
present themselves, to which all the others will be found to be 
exact counterparts, in this respect, at least, that they all speak 
of hired labour and never once allude, in the most remote de- 
gree, to slave-labour. 

From Mr. Cheap, Resident at Soonamooky. Estimated 
produce of a bigah of sugar-cane (p. 92). 

" 28 maunds of goor, at 1 rupee, • • • • * R. 28 

Deduct charges 

4 ploughings R. 7 

2 harrowings « 3 G 

10 bullock-loads of cow-dung and 

bullock-hire 112 

50 ditto of black-mould, and 

ditto ■ 8 

Plants 3 

4 maunds of pressed mustard-seed 14 
Labourers' hire, weeding and wa- ^ 

tering 2 

Ditto cutting cane, bringing 



6 



it to the pressing-house, gune- 

lahs, boiling, &c. 4 6 

Hire for the pressing-house • • • 14 

Bullock-hire for pressing ditto • • 3 8 

Revenue for 1 bigah 3 



20 14 6 



" It is understood, that all the labourers are to 
be hired. A man cultivating for himself will do 
double the work of a hired labourer. Estimated 

profit 7 1 6" 

From Mr. Fletcher, Resident at Radnagore. Estimate of 
the expense attending one bigah of sugar-cane, and boiling the 
same into Jaggree (p. 150). 

"Rent S.R. 3 

Plants 3 

Preparing and planting 22 coolies, weeding 5, 
earthing plants 6, watering 15, tying the 

leaves 24, in all 72 coolies * . 6 

Ploughing, eight days, » » • 12 

Cutting the cane 20 coolies, grinding the cane, 
and boiling the juice into jaggree 54, in all 

74 coolies 6 2 3 

Sursum seed, a little with each plant, 2 

Straw for fire with dried cane ••*••« 1 

J sirs and pots • 10 

22 14 8" 

We have seen what is stated on this subject by the Board of 
Trade. The members of that Board mu c t have resided many 
years in Bengal before they could have been eligible to the 
situation they held. They must, therefore, have been cogni- 
zant of the fact, whether sugar was or was not cultivated by 
slaves, as the members of the Supreme Council, to whom their 
observations were addressed, must also have been. They, 
however, distinctly represent the cultivation of sugar in the 



Bengal provinces to be conducted by free labour in contradis- 
tinction to the slave labour of the West Indies. We also find, 
that in not one of the estimates, which were transmitted from 
the various provinces of Bengal to this Board, is the very 
slightest allusion made to slave labour, as forming a constituent 
part of the charge of cultivating sugar. But this is not all : 
even this conclusive evidence is further strengthened by inci- 
dental notices of the most unequivocal kind, occurring in diffe- 
rent parts of these reports, and which abundantly confirm the 
correctness of my assertion, that sugar is not cultivated iu Bengal 
by slaves. To cite a few examples : 

Mr. Udney, the Resident at Malda, in a letter dated Feb. 
18, 1793,* thus writes : 

" The expense of cultivating one bigah" (about 1600 square 
feet) " is estimated at Rs. 8.8, whereof the particulars are, 

Store of ploughs, oxen, &c. • Rs.l 12 

Cooley hire • 14 

— weeding, eight times 4 

— cutting, and bringing earth 8 

— tying canes, four times 1 

Petty charges 6 

8 8 
" The quantity of canes produced per bigah is estimated at 
8000, value Rs. 13. 

" When a ryot employs hired servants alone to cultivate his 
land, his profit is estimated at Rs. 1.8 per crop per bigah; but 
few if any ryots do pay for the whole labour bestowed on 
their land, but cultivate in part with the members of their 
own family ; and, insomuch as a ryot is able to employ them 
in cultivating the land, and looking after the canes, so much 
he gains: thus the profit he derives per bigah per crop may be 
averaged at 4 to 6 rupees." 

* First Appendix, p. 146. 



8 

Mr. Cheap, the President at Soonamooky, in a letter, dated 
February 14, 1793, takes occasion to observe that, " The 
ryots possess no capital, and therefore are unable to purchase 
a sufficiency of manure to prepare their grounds," (p. 154.) 
He does not say (nor does any one else, when treating, as 
they frequently do, of the same point, the deficiency of capi- 
tal) that that deficiency disables the cultivators from purchasing 
a sufficiency of slaves to prepare their grounds; (this is what 
would naturally have occurred to West-Indians, or to any who 
treated of cultivation by slave labour ;) but only that it dis- 
ables them from purchasing a sufficiency of manure. 

In a lengthened report from Mr, Treves, the acting political 
resident at Benares, dated April 20th, 1793, that gentleman 
(p. 191) enters into a discussion of the question, " How far 
the cultivation of the cane might be attempted by an European 
with any prospect of advantage 1 " The following is his solu- 
tion of the question. 

" The first point he would have to attend to would be, land 
proper for his purpose, a low jumma (rent), and the facility 
of watering from tanks and wells. It would then be necessary 
to purchase bullocks, make ploughs, collect manure, &c. for 
it is impossible to set out upon any attempt of this kind with 
any, the slightest, reliance for assistance from the natives. 
Occasionally, they might plough and water for him, but he 
must be known to have resources within himself by having 
bullocks, ploughs, &c. otherwise he will never be able to in- 
duce the ryots to work for him but on terms that would be 
ruinous. And here, perhaps, if it is considered, that, to carry 
on the cultivation of sugar to any extent, there must be a con- 
stant and heavy expense in feeding some hundreds of cattle, 
which will, of course, be unserviceable, or idle, nine months 
in the year ; whereas the ryot has constant means of employ- 
ment for his ; the plan, in its outset, may appear unadviseable. 
Further, an European must give high daily wages to all his 



9 

people. He must keep an establishment of sorkars, peons, &c. 
ever connected with European exertion in India; besides being 
liable to innumerable deceptions, which nothing but long and 
generally dear-bought experience can enable him to detect. 
A ryot, on the contrary, prepares his plantation with the same 
cattle that plough his other lands. His whole family work 
upon it, and though it is true that these must be fed, still they 
are maintained for one-fourth of what they would expect to 
receive if at day wages; and as to superintendence, it costs 
him nothing." Again : " Though, exclusive of the jurama, 
the cultivation of the cane is usually attended with a certain 
degree of expense, even to the ryot, yet it is certain that 
his greatest profits arise from the culture of this valuable plant. 
I have already mentioned that his comparative advantages are 
many, since the whole of his family are ever employed on the 
plantation, and thus the necessity of hiring daily labourers is 
entirely removed. The same cattle not only plough his cane 
lands, but also those for wheat, barley, &c." Such being the 
case, he proceeds to remark on the impossibility of ascertaining 
the actual expense incurred by the ryots in cultivating the cane 
and expressing the juice. The estimates, therefore, which he 
submits to the supreme government, he states (p. 199) to be 
" grounded on the supposition that all labour, assistance, &c. 
bestowed or applied, has been paid for according to the usual 
rates of the country ; or, in other words, those rates are cal- 
culated at what the cultivation would probably cost, were it 
carried on by a person not possessed of the natural local ad- 
vantages of the ryot, and who would be obliged to pay the 
hire of labourers and of bullocks, and the cost of manure, 
&c. &c. during every stage, from the first ploughing of the 
field to the final expression of the cane-juice." 

Whether Mr. Treves be right or wrong in his general reason- 
ing on the question which he proposes to solve, is of no mo- 
ment to the present inquiry. It is perfectly evident that he 
never once contemplated the purchase or employment of slaves, 



10 

as calling for any place whatever, either in his reasonings or 
calculations. Slaves are never mentioned or even alluded to. 
The only substitute for hired labour which he ever hints at, is 
the labour of the farmer's own household. In like manner, the 
Board of Trade in making an abstract of the different state- 
ments that had been sent to them, and estimating the average 
cost of cultivating the cane and manufacturing the sugar at 
R s - 20 per bigah, observe, (p. 119,) that this abstract " sup- 
poses labourers and instruments to be hired. But the actual 
outlay to a husbandman possessing oxen and proper imple- 
ments of husbandry, working on his own account, and assisted 
by his family, is estimated at R 9 * 10. 4 per bigah. This differ- 
ence is considerable; but it is limited by the extent of labour 
to which the family is competent." 

The only other document, in the first Appendix, to which I 
need allude, in proof of the correctness of my view of the sub- 
ject, and the incorrectness of that of the Author of the Reply, 
is a letter addressed to the Government of Bengal, on the 6th 
February, 1793, by Mr, William Fitzmaurice, (p. 210-216,) in 
which a minute comparison is instituted between the mode and 
the expense of cultivating sugar in the West Indies and in 
Bengal. Mr. Fitzmaurice had lived as a sugar planter in 
Jamaica for sixteen years. " From the luxuriance and fertility 
of this country," (Bengal,) he observes, " I think it is amply 
competent to the supply of all Europe with sugars ; and that 
even the West-India planters themselves might import them 
hence on much easier terms than they can afford to sell sugars 
in the curing houses on their own plantations." — " Indeed, the 
waste lands, occupied by the tigers, between this (Calcutta) 
and Ingelee, would produce nearly as much sugar as the island 
of Jamaica ; and, as to labour, thousands of labourers may be 
had, by the day or week, or month or year, at two annas per 
day, or three rupees per month, the highest here given." — 
" And inasmuch as the cultivation of the sugar-cane destroys 
annually, in the West, thousands of men, women, and children, 



It 

by incessent toil, it will save the lives of thousands in the East 
by giving them employment and sustenance." He then com- 
pares the estimated profits of a Jamaica estate, yielding 150 
tons of sugar, and cultivated by a gang of 200 slaves of all 
ages, with those of a plantation in Bengal capable of producing 
the same quantity. In the latter case there is no mention 
whatever made of slaves ; but, in their stead, we have " 200 
labourers at three rupees per month, including tradesmen." 

To destroy the effect of this mass of testimony, what does the 
Author of the Reply produce 1 He produces the following pas- 
sage, quoted from the East-India Report, (Appendix III. p. 80). 
" Slavery is not unknown in Bengal. Throughout some dis- 
tricts the labours of husbandry are executed chiefly by bond- 
servants. In certain provinces the ploughmen are usually 
slaves of the peasants for whom they labour ; but treated by 
their masters more like hereditary servants, or like emancipated 
hinds, than like purchased slaves. They labour with cheerful 
diligence and unforced zeal. In some places, also, the land- 
holders have a claim to the servitude of thousands among the 
inhabitants of their estates. This claim, which is seldom en- 
forced, and which, in many instances, is become wholly obso- 
lete, is founded on some ' traditional rights' acquired many 
generations ago, in a state of society different from the pre- 
sent ; and slaves of this description do, in fact, enjoy every 
privilege of a free man, except the name ; or, at the most, they 
must be considered as villeins attached to the glebe, rather 
than as bondsmen labouring for the sole benefit of their owners. 
Indeed, throughout India, the relation of master and slave 
appears to impose the duty of protection and cherishment on 
the master, as much as that of fidelity and obedience on the 
slave ; and their mutual conduct is consistent with the sense 
of such an obligation, since it is marked with gentleness and 
indulgence on the one side, and with zeal and loyalty on the 
other. 

" Though we admit the fact, that slaves may be found in 
Bengal, among the labourers in husbandry, yet, in most pro- 



12 

vinces, none but freemen are occupied in the business of agri- 
culture." 

The Author of the Reply, in introducing this extract to his rea- 
ders, refers it to " the East-India Directors," and speaks of it as 
containing an admission, on their parts, of " the existence of sla- 
very in Bengal." But he must have perceived, that the third Ap- 
pendix, from which it is taken, contains nothing which emanates 
from the Court of Directors, either in the way of statement or 
admission. It contains only extracts from the " writings of 
scientific persons in India and other authors on the sugar-trade." 
Twenty-six different works are here quoted at considerable 
length; and, among the rest, Edwards's History of the British 
West Indies and Sir William Young's West-India Common- 
Place Book. The Directors do not attempt to fix the value of 
these authorities. They have done no more than collect with 
great industry, and a most laudable impartiality, all that was to 
be found scattered throughout a variety of publications on the 
subject of the culture and commerce of sugar. It is in one of 
these publications, entitled, " Remarks on the Husbandry and 
internal Commerce of Bengal, 1806/' that the passage quoted 
by Mr. Marryat, and which he chooses to attribute to the 
Directors, is to be found. Even the name of the respectable 
author is not given.. And yet Mr. Marryat speaks of it as 
being an admission " by the East-India Directors" of "the 
existence of slavery in Bengal." He might, with equal truth, 
represent them as admitting the superior advantage of the 
West-India trade over that of the East Indies, because they 
have inserted in the same Appendix the comparative view given 
by Mr. Edwards of these two branches of commerce. 

But to have done justice even to the author of the above 
quotation, the writer of the Reply was bound, in fairness, to 
have given also the passage which immediately precedes it, in 
which he is instituting a comparison between the advantages 
enjoyed by the East and West Indian growers of sugar respec- 
tively. " The same advantages," he observes, which are 
enjoyed in Bengal, " do not exist in the West Indies. It is 



13 

worthy of observation, that the labour of the negro constitutes 
more than three-fifths of the cost of sugar in Jamaica. So 
that if the West-Indian planter were even able to substitute 
straw huts for his expensive buildings, or simple implements 
and earthen vessels for his intricate machinery and costly ap- 
paratus, still the price of labour would be an insuperable bar 
to a successful competition. Independently of calculation and 
comparison, it is obvious that the labour of a slave must be 
much dearer than that of a freeman, since the original purchase 
will always form a heavy charge, from which hired labour is 
exempt. Moreover, the West-Indian slave has no incentive 
for exertion ; nor can he be roused to it by the smart of recent 
chastisement, or by the dread of impending punishment." 

But I have hitherto pointed out but a small part of the 
unfairness which is justly chargeable on Mr. Marryat's repre- 
sentations on this subject, " The existence of slavery in 
Bengal," he says, " is admitted by the East-India Directors, 
although the description of it" (the description of it, that is 
to say, which he had previously cited) " is softened in a 
manner not easily reconcilable with the accounts already 
quoted." All who read this passage would conclude that Mr. 
M. was here referring to authorities previously quoted by him 
in proof of the existence and harshness of slavery in Bengal. 
What then will be their surprise to find that the authorities he 
had previously quoted, and to which he here refers as disprov- 
ing the assertion that sugar in Bengal is not cultivated by slave- 
labour, are drawn, not from any account of Bengal, but from 
an account of some newly-ceded provinces, at the distance of 
more than one thousand miles from Bengal, and quite on the 
opposite side of the peninsula of India? This method of 
proving his point is the more remarkable, because it is 
now a second time deliberately resorted to, notwith- 
standing a complete exposure of its disingenuousness in the 
very pamphlet to which he is replying. He here repeats the 
refuted statement without deigning to notice the decisive refu- 



u 

tation it had received. (See East and West India Sugar. 
p. 90.) 

Great Britain had just come into possession of certain pro- 
vinces in the southern part of the Peninsula, which had been 
subject either to the Nabob of Arcot or to the Sultan of 
Mysore. Dr. F. Buchanan was employed to examine their 
state, and to report upon it. From his report, which was 
afterwards published under the title of " A Journey from 
Madras through Mysore, Canara, and Malabar, in 1800 ;" it 
appears that in some of these newly-acquired provinces slavery 
was to be found. The author of the Reply quotes these in- 
stances to prove that sugar in Bengal is cultivated by slaves. 
From the beginning to the end of his journey, however, Dr. B. 
does not approach within a thousand miles of the Bengal pro- 
vinces, and his work might, therefore, be quoted with as much 
truth and fairness in proof of the existence of slavery in Japan 
as in Bengal. What should we think of a writer who should 
deduce from Dr. Clarke's account of slavery in Russia, the ex- 
istence of slavery in Denmark, because both countries were 
comprehended under the term Scandinavia, or, who should 
argue that, because there are at this day certain services which 
tenants in some parts of Great Britain are bound to render 
to their landlords, (similar, probably, to the " claim to ser- 
vitude" existing, though growing " obsolete," in Bengal,) there- 
fore, the corn of Great Britain is the produce of slave-labour. 

But it is further remarkable that the proofs to which the 
author of the Reply has chosen principally to refer, as esta- 
blishing the fact that the. sugars brought to this country from 
India are cultivated by slaves, respect provinces from which 
no sugar is exported to this or any other country. Dr. Bucha- 
nan himself makes this statement in one of the very chap- 
ters from which Mr. Marryat labours to prove his point ; af- 
firming that sugar is absolutely required to be imported thither 
for the consumption of the inhabitants. 

But the most remarkable circumstance of all remains to be 
noticed. It is this, that the East-India Report, to which the An- 



15 

thor of the Reply so often refers, and from which he has gleaned 
with so much care every expression which can be made to serve 
his purpose, actually contains a survey by this same Dr. Bucha- 
nan of several of the Bengal provinces. This survey Mr. Mar- 
ryat has chosen wholly to overlook while he goes with the sur- 
veyor on his tour to the Mysore and Malabar, in order to pick 
up every mention he makes of slavery in his account of that 
region, in order to apply it to the provinces of Bengal, in the 
very teeth of Dr. B.'s own detailed account of those provinces. 

" The Statistical Survey of the Districts of Dinajpur, Rongo- 
pur, Puraniya, Bhagalpur, Behar and Patna, Shahabad and 
Ghorakpur," by this same Dr. Francis Buchanan, now Dr. 
Hamilton, between 1809 and 1814, occupies seventeen closely- 
printed folio pages of the East-India Report. But not one line 
of his survey of those Bengal provinces could be found to serve 
Mr. Marryat's purpose. He is obliged to recur to the Doctor's 
survey of the ceded provinces in the South for his proofs of 
slavery in Bengal. I challenge him to produce a single sentence 
in the Statistical Survey of these districts, by this minute and 
accurate reporter, which will support his assertions. Dr. B. 
not only does not mention slavery as existing there, but there 
are, in his Survey, many passages which seem more decisively 
to disprove the employment of slaves in the culture or manufac- 
ture of sugar than if he had specifically denied the fact. 

In Dinajpur (Appendix III. p. 23), he represents the neigh- 
bouring farmers as uniting to take off each other's crops of 
sugar, the only person that is hired being the sugar-boiler. In 
a detailed estimate of the expense of a particular sugar-manu- 
factory (p. 29) he refers only to hired labour. 

In Rongopur he states the expense of the mill as follows : — 
" To mill and boiler ..«.,.. R s - 9 8 

To seven labourers' wages for four months, k 10 

annas • • • • - 17 8 

To food for the same • 17 8 

To 10 sers of extract for each ° 2 

To the wages of the head man, at \\ Rupees • • 6 



16 

To seven gundas of cowries, on each pot of juice 

for the proprietor of the mill •••••• 48 

Similar statements are made with respect to the other pro- 
vinces in Bengal surveyed by Dr. Buchanan. 

The remaining papers in this Appendix, drawn from scientific 
works, seem equally conclusive as to the fact that the sugars of 
Bengal are not produced by slave labour. In one of these, 
" a Bengal Planter," after having stated that the sugars of that 
region are usually cultivated by the ryot and his family, (p. 49, 
63, &c.) with the occasional addition of hired labour ; and 
having entered into a great variety of minute calculations on 
the subject, none of them containing the most remote allusion 
to slave labour ; makes the following seasonable remarks, which 
I beg to recommend to general attention, as furnishing an an- 
swer to at least one-half of Mr. Marryat's pamphlet. 

" No consideration, in my humble opinion, for West Indian 
property ought to crush the progress of improvement in this 
country, and fetter the commerce of our own. Such a policy 
is unjust to Bengal : it is injurious to England. And for what 
are these restrictions to be enforced ? For the conservation 
of slavery. To preserve and perpetuate ^the returns of West- 
Indian estates to a few monied men in England, is it right that 
they should have a national monopoly for the produce, and that 
the welfare and happiness of millions should be immolated at 
the shrine of a system founded on principles the most abhorrent 
to humanity? If the West Indies cannot support their sugar- 
plantations under a competition with a country so distant as 
Bengal, they will soon become too burdensome to be maintained 
much longer." p. 60. 

The following remarks, also, are no less important. The 
author of them, Mr. Botham, was well acquainted with the 
culture of sugar both in the West and East Indies. He thus 
states his opinion on the subject (p. 84) : — " The culture of 
the cane in the West Indies is in its infancy. Many alterations 
are to be made ; expenses and human labour lessened. The 
hoe now used to turn up soils of different textures is of one 



17 

construction, cheap and very light, so that the negro, without 
any help from its weight, digs up the earth, and the cane-roots 
on re-planting, by the severest exertion. In the East we plough 
up the cane-roots. 

" Having experienced the difference of labourers for profit 
and labourers from force, I can assert that the savings by, the 
former are very considerable. The West-India planter, for his 
own interest, should give more labour to beast and less to man. 
A larger portion of his estate ought to be in pasture. When prac- 
ticable, canes should be carried to the mill, and cane-tops and grass 
to the stock, in waggons. The custom of making a hard-worked 
negro get a bundle of grass twice a day should be abolished ; 
and, in short, a total change take place in the miserable manage- 
ment of our West-India islands." — " Let it be considered how 
much labour is lost by the persons overseeing the forced labourer, 
which is saved when he works for his own profit. I have stated, 
with the strictest veracity, a plain matter of fact: sugar-estates 
can be worked cheaper by free persons than slaves." 

After this lengthened statement, I am persuaded you will not 
attach much weight to Mr. Marryat's farther authorities.on this 
subject. He quotes, it is true, three brief passages (p. 40, 41) 
from other authors, to whose works I have no access at the 
present moment ; but he has taken good care, in quoting them, 
to avoid all specification of time, place, and circumstance, and 
to involve his references in such convenient generalities that they 
may be, and probably are, as wide of all applicability to the 
case in hand as the description of slavery in Malabar is to the 
proof that in Bengal sugar is cultivated by slaves. 

I might, however, have spared -both you and myself all this 
accumulation of evidence to prove that sugar is not cultivated 
in Bengal by slaves. Mr. Marryat himself has proved it in a 
single sentence, which, to the apprehension of every just reasoner 
in political economy, will be found to present a complete and 
satisfactory refutation of all he had been labouring to establish 
on this subject. The sentence is this : — " Labour in India is 

C 



18 

of so little value that probably the claims to servitude are not 
enforced, because they are not worth enforcing." This is per- 
fectly just, and it proves, more incontestably than a thousand 
arguments, that slavery can have only a nominal existence in 
Bengal. But then Mr. Marryat fears lest a new demand for 
labour, caused by the increased cultivation of sugar, should 
revive slavery there, and create a new slave-trade. I trust, 
however, that Mr. Marryat and his friends will unite to prevent 
the possibility of such a result. We have his virtual admission, 
in the very fact of the cheapness of labour, that slavery can 
have only a nominal existence in Bengal ; and I am persuaded 
that not only will the government of India be sufficiently awake 
to the rights of its subjects, but that all parties in the House 
of Commons, however they may differ about the extinction of 
West-India slavery, will join in one concurrent effort to with- 
stand the very first approximation either to the revival, in that 
part of the British dominions, of any of the obsolete rights of 
servitude, or to any practice which shall have the remotest 
affinity to the accursed slave-trade. 

Independently, indeed, of this admission of Mr. Marryat's 
on the subject of the cheapness of wages,* the fact that the 
labours of husbandry are chiefly conducted in Bengal by the 
occupier of the soil aided by his own family, would, to all who 
know any thing of the genius of slavery as it exists in the British 
colonies, be quite decisive of the question. 

If, however, any doubt, or even a shadow of a doubt, shall 
still remain on this important question, I trust that Mr. Marryat 
will agree to the appointment of a Committee for its thorough 
elucidation. It is clearly no matter of indifference whether 
one hundred millions of British subjects enjoy the protection 
of law as freemen, or are placed in the same degrading state 

* See also p. 16 of Mr. Marryat's pamphlet, where, in reckoning up the 
cost of manufacturing sugar in Bengal, he entirely omits the mention of slave- 
labour, which, had it been used, must have been, as he as a West Indian 
must know, by far the most costly item in the account. 



19 

of personal slavery in which the whole labouring population of 
our West-Tndian colonies are confessedly placed. Abundance 
of living testimony upon this point js easily accessible ; and if 
Mr. Marryat is desirous of ascertaining the truth respecting it, 
with a view to the essential interests of humanity, he will not 
object to this course. 

Let him not then imagine that, although I contend that 
the sugar we receive from Bengal is not cultivated by slaves, I 
am therefore disposed to screen whatever slavery may be found 
in any part of India from inquiry and suppression. Unhappily 
there exist in India many practices which are in the highest degree 
cruel and barbarous, and in a few districts personal slavery may 
still prevail. There is this difference, however, between the 
slavery of the East and of the West, that of the latter we ourselves 
are the sole authors, and are chargeable, therefore, with its 
whole guilt and turpitude. In the East, whatever slavery exists 
we found there ; we did not ourselves create it : it was the 
fruit of Pagan, Mahometan, or Portuguese rule, and will, I trust, 
soon disappear before the superior benignity of our pater- 
nal and Christian institutions. I rejoice, indeed, to believe that, 
since the establishment of our empire in that quarter, much has 
been done not merely for the mitigation but for the entire ex- 
tinction of that unhappy condition of human society. I am 
even assured that, at the present moment, no man in British 
India can claim, in the courts of that country, (with the excep- 
tion, perhaps, of some districts adjoining Mysore,) a right of 
property in the person of another, though nominally a slave; or 
obtain any aid from the civil power in enforcing his involuntary 
services, or in recovering him, should he remove to a distance. 
Nay, I am further assured, that personal violence expe- 
rienced by any one of those called slaves, would, in our courts, 
generally, be now visited with precisely the same punishment 
as if the individual complaining were subject to no claim of 
servitude. If this be so, and the fact may easily be ascertained, 

C2 



20 

it is evident there can now be little or no real slavery in British 
India. The matter is, doubtless, highly deserving of attention; 
and I trust, if a committee should be appointed to investigate 
it, that the result will be that whatever vestige may yet remain 
of personal slavery within the bounds of our Indian empire will 
be speedily and for ever effaced. I only wish that Mr. Marryat 
and his friends would join us as cordially in abolishing the 
slavery of the West Indies, as we should be forward in uniting 
with them to abolish not only slavery, but every inhuman prac- 
tice still tolerated in the East. 

Having disposed of this part of the controversy, I propose 
to save myself some trouble, by inserting a communication 
which I have received from our common friend, Mr. Cropper, 
of Liverpool, who, with his usual accuracy, has been examining 
some of the statements in Mr. Marryat's pamphlet. The fol- 
lowing are Mr. Cropper's remarks. 

" There can scarcely be a stronger proof of the weakness 
of a cause, than when its ablest advocates, instead of support- 
ing it by truth and candour, resort to misrepresentations and 
mis-statements. Such is the indubitable stamp which Joseph 
Marryat has fixed on the cause he has been advocating in his 
Reply. In the very first paragraph of his pamphlet, though the 
sentiment contained in it be correct, its application is unfair 
and unjust. It was the West Indians themselves who have 
proposed " innovations," affecting the interests of their fellow- 
subjects, and inconsistent " with good faith and public justice," 
while the East Indians only ask that the question may be fairly 
investigated. 

" The Committee of the Liverpool Association had observed 
in their Report ; ' The article of cotton, though not affording the 
same comparative exemplification of what may be produced by 
a change from a high to a low duty, is yet a striking example of 
what may be effected by permitting an article to come in at a 



21 

comparatively low rate, and leaving it unshackled by any re- 
strictions and discriminating regulations,' The Committee 
then proceed to show, that cotton, being charged with duties 
comparatively low, has increased in 120 years 120 fold, whilst 
the consumption of sugar, with duties bearing an enormous 
proportion to the cost of production, has only increased in the 
same period 12 fold. * By which it appears,' they proceed to 
say, ' that, in the same period of 120 years, the one article 
labouring under excessive duties has increased only 12 fold, 
whilst the other article has been subject to comparatively low 
duties and few restrictions, and, being thereby brought more 
freely within the command of the lower classes of society who 
form the bulk of consumers, has increased 120 fold. This, 
however, your Committee do not mean to state as the com- 
parison between the consumption of the two articles in this 
country, because of late years a very large proportion of our 
importation of cotton has been exported in a manufactured 
state — how much it is not very easy to ascertain ; but from 
some late estimates it would appear to be about one half: 
hence the increase of the consumption of cotton is 60 fold, 
whilst that of sugar is but 12 fold.' 

" Now what is there in this quotation which can justify 
such an assertion as the following : ' but this they admit was 
not the consequence of a reduction of duty, and therefore, in 
point of fact, has no bearing whatever on the subject.' — 
Reply, p. 7. They adduced it, however, to prove, that the ab- 
sence of restrictions had operated powerfully in this instance ; 
which surely has a bearing on the subject. — He goes on to say: 
* The improvements in machinery which enable us to undersell 
our foreign competitors in the manufacture of cottons, have 
occasioned this amazing increase in the consumption of that com- 
modity. Sugar, however, is not only manufactured but eaten, 
and although the consumption in a manufacture may be inde- 
finite, that in the human stomach is finite; and unless the 



22 

East Indians can invent some machinery by which mankind 
may be induced to eat 120 times as much sugar as they now 
do, the comparison between cotton and sugar cannot be deemed 
applicable.' 

" Would Joseph Marryat have his readers to understand, 
that whilst sugar is not only manufactured but eaten, cotton is 
only manufactured, and that its final consumption is in the 
manufactory, and not in the wear and tear of common life ? 
If cotton is only manufactured, then less of it ought to be 
consumed. But it is not merely the need which the body 
may have of clothing, or the capacity of the stomach for the 
digestion of sugar, which alone limits the consumption of 
either article. It is the power of the great mass of consumers 
to obtain them ; but of that more hereafter. 

" It is surely not necessary to prove that the increased con- 
sumption of cotton and sugar should be exactly the same to 
make the comparison applicable ; but even if it were so, the 
Author of the Reply cannot be ignorant, that, according to the 
Liverpool estimate which, by his own strange mis-statements, 
he attempts to turn to ridicule, it required only five times the 
quantity of sugar, and not 120 times as he has affirmed, to 
equal the rate of consumption at which cotton has proceeded. 

" In order to do away several other misrepresentations, it 
would only be requisite to turn to the Report of the Liverpool 
East-India Association, p. 45. 

" It is there clearly shown that if sugar were only subject 
to a moderate duty, as 6s. 9d. the cwt. the British manufac- 
turer could, in exchange for his goods, procure it in any 
quantity, so as to sell coarse qualities at 1\d. to 3d. and 
refined at 5d. to 6d. per lb. 

" The extension of sale for our manufactures in the East 
would create a corresponding increase of employment at 
home ; and this circumstance, combined with the diminution 
in the price of sugar, would place the article generally within 



23 

the reach of the poor. And if, on the average, only 56 lb. 
of raw, equal to 40 lb. of refined sugars, were used by every 
individual in the British empire, it would, on the present popu- 
lation, make 500,000 tons, being more than three times our 
present consumption. 

" Sugar, however, it is obvious, may be procured from India 
in any quantity we may desire. For if the West Indies, with 
a population under one million, can supply us with 200,000 
tons of sugar, what may not one hundred millions of subjects 
in the East produce, from the extent of our territory, with a soil 
and climate equally adapted for its production? Assuredly 
far more than it is possible for this country or, perhaps, the 
world itself to consume. Not only the increase of the quantity, 
however, but of the consumption also must be a work of time. 
But in proportion as both increased, it is evident that the 
rate of duty might be reduced without any loss to the revenue. 
So that if we suppose the consumption to increase four times, 
a duty of 6s. 9d. per cwt. would yield as much as 27s. does 
now ; and if the duty were charged according to value, it 
probably would not exceed 4s. to 5s. per cwt. on coarse sugar, 
such as could be brought from India, and which, including 
freight and charges, might be sold at 16s. to 18s. per cwt. 
* Thus/ the Committee observe, ' we should have sugar, 
duty included, costing under 1\d. per lb. from which, though 
the quality would be inferior to that now commonly refined, yet 
refined sugar might doubtless be made so as to be sold at bd. 
per lb. ; and all this might be effected without any loss what- 
ever to the revenue. Moreover, if the duty were levied ac- 
cording to value, sugar would come to the country precisely 
in that state in which it could be most advantageously 
brought; and the business of the sugar-refiner, which boun- 
ties, restrictions, and duties, have nearly destroyed, would 
again flourish.' 

" The above is, in substance, the statement which the Author 



24 

of the Reply ridicules as the reveries of madmen. But in order 
to show that an annual consumption of 500,000, or even 
600,000 tons of sugar, arrived at by a gradual increase, in a 
course of years, would be no unreasonable expectation, if it 
were put within the reach of the lower orders of society by an 
increase of employment and a reduction in the price of the 
article, both of which are likely to result from an extended 
and unrestricted commerce with India ; it will be sufficient to 
state, that the 150,000 tons of sugar we now consume, when 
divided amongst 20,000,000 of people, afford only at the rate 
of 16| lb. of raw or less than 12 lb. of refined sugar in the 
year for each. Now 14 ounces of refined sugar in the week, 
equal to about 19 or 20 ounces of raw, which is by no 
means an unusual quantity for many persons to use at break- 
fast and tea, independently of the other uses to which sugar 
is applied, makes a consumption of 45 lb. of refined, or 63 lb. 
of raw sugar in the year for each individual ; amounting, on 
the whole, to upwards of 560,000 tons annually : so that if 
the Author of the Reply will be at the pains to ascertain the 
capacity of his own stomach, he will probably find that it 
requires no invention of machinery, as he jocularly supposes, 
to enable it to consume his own share of a quantity far beyond 
what the Liverpool Committee ever contemplated, and which 
would make the increased consumption of sugar equal to that 
of cotton, or five times its present amount, and not, as he would 
falsely make the Committee to argue, to 120 times that quantity. 
That there is any disinclination in the lower classes to the use of 
sugar I have yet to learn ; and that they would willingly con- 
sume as much as their superiors in rank now do, if they were 
able to buy it, any one may be satisfied who will take pains to 
ascertain the fact. At some charitable institutions, servants 
are allowed 36 lbs. of sugar per annum to use with tea only j 
and infirm paupers, in the workhouse of Liverpool, are allowed 
| lb. per week to use only to one meal a day — their tea. 



25 

" In answer to that statement which shows only an increased 
consumption of 30,000 tons, from 1814 to 1820, notwithstand- 
ing a reduction in price of 38s. lid. per cwt. I would observe, 
that this is one of the few cases in which the Author of the 
Reply has a fair ground for argument, and in which he may 
not have known that he was wrong. But it is plain, from the 
very small quantity of sugar which, on the average, each 
individual consumes, and the large share of it which is un- 
questionably consumed by persons in easy circumstances, 
amounting to at least four or five times that average, that 
sugar is at present chiefly consumed by the higher and middling 
classes of society, who will not lessen their consumption for 
any moderate difference in the price, while during a great 
part of the period in question, there has been among us a state 
of almost unexampled distress, under which agriculture is 
still labouring. 

" It is not a little remarkable, that, after the Author of the 
Reply had been treating, as the reveries of madmen, the low 
rate at which the Liverpool Committee calculate that sugar 
may be procured when the quantity has been increased and 
the duty lowered in proportion, he turns round and at once 
stultifies his own argument, by observing, that, ' If govern- 
ment would give up the duty to the extent that the East Indians 
propose, leaving only 6s. Sd. per cwt. ; this might almost be 
done under the present system/ And if almost done under 
the present system, how much more certainly and entirely 
would it be effected under a system of free and unrestricted 
competition 1 

" The diminution which the Author of the Reply shows to 
have taken place in the quantity of tonnage to India, whilst, 
at the same time, the exports of manufactured goods have so 
rapidly and largely increased, is a complete confirmation of our 
arguments and a refutation of his own. The trade is only 
limited, as we affirm, by the want of a market for the raw 



26 

produce to be received in return. Now he knows well enough 
that, in general, one cargo of manufactured goods will pay 
for several cargoes of such raw produce as sugar. In his great 
kindness to us, however, he would have our ships not only 
to go out but also to return loaded in great part with ballast. 

u In page 18, he says, ' Mr. Cropper, although he pro- 
fesses to be actuated by the philanthropic motive of putting an 
end to slavery, avows the ruin of the West Indians to be his 
object,' and he then quotes the following passage to prove it. 
' There is evidently,' says he, ' a rate of prices necessary to 
support slave- cultivation, under a system which prevents their 
increase, and may require supply by fresh importation. At a 
lower rate slave-cultivation may be continued, but not the 
importation of slaves. There is, I believe, a point still lower 
where every system of slavery must be given up.' The Author 
of the Reply has quoted thus far, but there he stops : what 
immediately follows he has not added, * Has not that point 
arrived in all our cultivation and manufacture in this country?' 

" I certainly read his assertion with no small astonishment. 
I knew I had never felt a wish to ruin the West Indians, and 
that it would be strange indeed if I had ever avowed what I 
had never felt ; on the contrary, I have often expressed a 
wish that they might speedily enjoy the same benefits which 
are enjoyed, not only by this country, but by every other where 
slave-labour has been abandoned, and slaves converted into free 
men. And I believe this has never been the case in any 
country, without the co-operation, at least, of the cause of 
which he is himself perfectly aware, (see page 43,) where he 
states that labour is of so little value that claims to servitude 
are not worth enforcing. His assertion of my avowal is as 
direct a misrepresentation as could have been uttered ; but it 
has the merit of being direct. The following is of a kind 
much more remarkably characteristic of this writer : — 

" ' Another alleged inducement to this project/ observes 



27 

this Author, ' is the great additional employment that would 
be furnished for British ships and British seamen. The East- 
India Committee say (p. 29), that, " as the distance from 
which East-India sugar has to be conveyed is greater, a greater 
quantity of British shipping and British seamen will be em- 
ployed, and the trade will remain undiminished. This would 
be the case if the quantity of sugar imported and consumed 
remained the same ; but as the price will be reduced, if your 
labours are successful, a greater quantity will be consumed ; 
and thus both these important interests, instead of being in- 
jured, will be benefited." 

" Now here the writer does not venture on the attempt to 
prove, by any argument of his own, the strange position that the 
British shipping-interest can suffer by doubling its employment, 
by bringing sugar, that is to say, from the East instead of the 
West Indies : he knew he might as well attempt to prove that 
two was a greater number than four. He first states the argu- 
ments of his opponents, without venturing to reply to them ; 
but he dexterously adds the following remark, evidently intended 
to neutralize their reasoning :• — ' On this point, however, the 
Committee of the Liverpool Association express themselves in 
one passage with some degree of diffidence, for they admit 
that this is a question in which the maritime interests are in- 
volved as respects the quantum of British shipping and British 
seamen that have been employed in the West-India trade.' 

" On turning, however, to the Report to which this writer 
refers, it will be found that the Committee absolutely scout, as 
altogether untenable, the very proposition which Mr. Marryat 
represents them as admitting. Their words are ' Your Com- 
mittee would have dropped the subject here, were it not barely 
possible that they may be called upon to notice two other 
topics, which have been laid before the public in some late 
productions from the West-India interest. It has been gravely 
contended, 1st. That this is a question in which the maritime 
interests of the country are involved, as respects the quantum 



28 

of British shipping and British seamen that have been employed 
by the West-India trade, meaning thereby to infer that these 
would be lessened by withdrawing the protection which that 
trade has hitherto enjoyed. 2d. That the revenue which the 
country has derived from the duties on West-India sugar, 
would be lessened, provided the protection which the West 
Indians have hitherto enjoyed was withdrawn. These argu- 
ments, if they can be called such, have been used merely to 
catch the unthinking, and are almost too frivolous to be noticed; 
and yet, as they have been gravely advanced by no less impor- 
tant a body than the House of Assembly of Jamaica, &c.' And 
yet, with this passage before him, in the very page from which 
he pretends to quote, he has the singular boldness gravely to 
state that the Committee express themselves ' with some degree 
of diffidence ' on this subject ; and that they admit the very 
point which they declare they deem almost too preposterous 
for argument ! What reliance, I ask, is it possible to place on 
such representations? 

" According to this writer, the comfort and happiness, nay 
the very lives of 700,000 human beings are made to depend on 
the high price of sugar. A work, however, is now in the press 
which will place this point in its true light, and will prove, 
beyond question, that, in their effects on the condition of the 
slaves who are employed in its cultivation, high prices of pro- 
duce have ever been injurious, while low prices of produce 
have always been beneficial, tending to mitigate their treatment 
and to promote their ultimate emancipation ; the natural pre- 
cursor of which is a great reduction in the value of slave- 
labour. 

" In page 81, the Author of the Reply gives a list of articles 
which he says cannot be imported direct into the West Indies 
from other countries, and cost more on being imported from 
this : these are * iron, coarse glass, cordage, sail-cloth, osna- 
burgs, cotton and coffee bagging, checks, linens of every de- 
scription, silks of all sorts, paper-hangings, cheese, wines, 



29 

brandy, geneva, and soap.' The people of the United States, 
however, cannot be supposed to buy any thing from England 
which they could get cheaper elsewhere ; yet they import large 
quantities of iron from this, though it pays a higher duty, than 
from any other country. They import, also, very largely of 
cotton bagging, and I do not know that they import it from 
any other country. Linens are also exported from hence to 
America, and so they are to Cuba. And as to wines and 
brandy, they are actually enumerated in the schedules of the 
Act of Parliament as articles which may be imported directly 
from the place of their growth. So much for the accuracy of 
this writer. 

" We are further told by this writer (p. 17), that the West 
Indies import every thing from us, even their bricks and lime. 
Now, if a country will supply us with cheap goods, it is, I 
conceive, of very little consequence in what they take their 
payment ; bricks and lime as well as any thing else. Indeed 
this is a point on which we need not concern ourselves, for 
those we deal with will take care that they are paid iu some- 
thing which they want. The articles, however, which a country 
takes from us will sometimes indicate whether we can expect to 
get things cheap from them. The country, for instance, where 
labour is so reduced in value that they can manufacture coarse 
articles for themselves, and therefore only take from us those 
articles in fabricating which human skill and machinery are 
united, is the most likely to supply us with cheap goods. But 
if the West Indians cannot make even their own bricks, it is 
perfectly ridiculous to talk about being hindered from manu- 
facturing other articles. Who, indeed, ever heard of slaves 
manufacturing for exportation ? The necessity under which 
this West Indian states the West Indies to be of importing even 
bricks, affords the most decisive proof of the advantages of 
free labour. The labour of a slave costs his master not more 
than 9d. or Is. per day, in interest, food, and clothing, and 
yet we see that the master of slaves imports bricks from 



30 

England made by free labourers who earn 5s. 6s. and often 
7*. 6d. per day. Here we perceive the inefficacy of the lash 
when compared with a higher inducement. 

*' In the whole of this pamphlet there is not one word about 
the bounty on the export of sugar, by which the price is raised 
about 6/. per cwt. to the British consumer. This was a subject 
which it did not suit its author to notice, though it is one of 
immense importance to the country. It is one which will 
shortly be treated upon more at large. 

" 1 shall no further notice his reference to the authority of 
a French minister of state than to remark, that it is a fact well 
known that the French and the English treat their slaves much 
worse than the Spanish and Portuguese, who, in consequence 
of their milder system, can afford their productions at a lower 
rate, and can therefore do without those bounties on cruelty 
which the French and English require. 

" To conclude, the East Indians ask for no restrictions on 
other trades, and therefore most cordially unite in the proposal 
to throw open our ports to the admission of the Spanish and 
Portuguese sugars, as well as to those of China, Java, and 
Siam, on equal duties. And if, in this state of things, the West 
Indians have any claim for indemnity, let them receive it direct 
from the country, that there may be an end of the claim, and 
that the trade of the country may be unshackled. There can 
be no reason for their objecting to this arrangement but one, 
and that is, a hope that the price of sugar will rise, and then 
this writer tells us, that when the Gazette price shall have 
reached 69/. per cwt. East-India sugars may come in at the 
same rate of duty as that of the West Indies. This is, indeed, 
a modest proposition ! The country pays now to the West 
Indians £1,200,000 to £1,500,000 per annum ; and when they 
have extracted 42/ per cwt. more, that is altogether £7,500,000 
from the pockets of the people, we then may look for some 
partial relief from the clemency of this writer and his friends. 
Then East-India sugars may be imported freely. Such are the 



31 

tender mercies of the West-Indian party towards the people of 
this country !" 

Thus far Mr. Cropper. His observations will render ray re- 
maining task very light. 

The Author of the Reply (p. 20) speaks of the Lascar seamen 
as "a tawny race," — " wretches whom the law declares to be 
nuisances." We see here something of the prejudices on the sub- 
ject of colour generated by West-Indian habits of thinking. I 
fear much that our British seamen, if living idly for weeks or 
months in some Indian or Chinese city, would prove far greater 
nuisances to the population of the place, than the poor Lascars 
prove in London. And as to their feebleness, are they not the 
same race who have maintained the glory of the British flag in 
many a well-fought field on shore ? But, besides all this, our 
Author must have known that the use of Lascars does not 
supersede the use of British seamen. A ship navigated to this 
country by Lascars must take back as many, nay even more 
British seamen, than if she had sailed hence originally. 

He finds a very convenient set-off to the West-Indian mono- 
poly in that possessed by the East-India Company, by which 
he says the public are made to pay for their supply of tea 
£2,700,000 a year more than they ought. I do not defend 
this costly arrangement ; but I do not see what remedy can be 
found for it, until the Company's charter shall expire. 

The "starving of some hundred thousands of slaves in the 
West Indies," observes the author, " must be the inevitable 
consequence of superseding them in the cultivation of sugar; 
for in the old islands the woods which formerly attracted the 
clouds, and brought down rain, have long since been felled, 
and the soil is become so arid, that the growth of provisions 
cannot be depended upon." Again ; " In many of the old 
islands, if the master cannot maintain his slaves by the sale of 
produce, they cannot maintain themselves by the growth of 
provisions, but must inevitably starve." Reply, p. 28, 29. 



32 

Every line of the above extract involves an absolute fallacy,' 
To prove this, it is only necessary to turn to one of the pam- 
phlets to which he professes to reply ; but the statements of which 
on this very point, as well as on many others, he chooses en- 
tirely to overlook, I mean "East and West India Sugar " (p. 79~ 
88). Referring you to that passage for a decisive refutation of 
the above assertions, I would beg leave to ask the Author of 
them whether he includes Jamaica in the list of our old islands, 
the soil of which is become so arid that the growth of provi- 
sions cannot be depended upon 1 On the contrary, is it not 
the' fact that the food which the slaves of that island in 
general have to depend upon, is what they themselves raise 
on the Sunday, and a few aditional days in the year 1 If the 
Author's statement, as it respects this island, is correct, then 
345,000 slaves are actually given over by their masters to in- 
evitable destruction the first dry season that occurs, they being 
left to depend wholly on the culture of an arid soil. If he 
says that he excepts Jamaica from the general description, 
then he at once exempts half the slaves in the West Indies from 
the starvation which, he tells us, is inevitably to follow a low 
price of sugar. 

But let us take another of our old islands, Barbadoes ; an 
island, too, much less favourably situated than Jamaica for the 
growth of provisions ; because the woods there have long since 
been felled, and the soil is more arid. But does the feeding 
of the slaves in this island, as is alleged, depend on the high 
price of sugar? I answer, in no degree. Provisions have 
always proved there as sure a crop as the cane. The same may 
he said of our colonies in Guiana, which, it is true, are not 
themselves old colonies, but which, when joined to the two 
previously mentioned, give an aggregate of about 510,000 of 
our slave population, being more than two-thirds of the whole, 
who do not depend on imported provisions for their subsistence, 
but almost entirely on the produce of their own soil. Of the 
remaining colonies several, doubtless, depend too much on 



33 

imported food, but this not from necessity but choice. The 
only island among them which is subject to severe droughts is 
Antigua, and there the drought affects the canes in full as 
great, if not a greater degree, than it affects other articles of 
culture. Whenever there is moisture enough to secure a crop 
of canes, there is always enough to secure a crop of provisions 
also. If the negroes starve, therefore, it cannot be owing to 
the low price of sugar, but to the unpardonable neglect of the 
planter in not cultivating provisions. There never, in short, 
was a more unfounded statement employed to mislead the pub- 
lic than this, that a soil and climate capable of producing the 
sugar cane are not also capable of producing food for the culti- 
vators of it. The sugar cane is one of the most exhausting crops 
which can be raised on any soil, and it is therefore the very 
height of extravagance to pretend to say that a soil adapted to 
its growth is incapable of producing articles of food. 

To affirm, therefore, that a low price of sugar tends to 
starve the slaves, is the very reverse of truth. The tendency 
of a low price of sugar, if matters were left to their natural 
course, would be to diminish the growth of sugar, and to 
increase the growth of food. The labour abstracted from the 
one would be profitably applied to the other, and both planter 
and slave must benefit by th hange. 

The Author of the Reply (p. 45), chooses to stigmatise my 
pamphlet as full of "invectives and exaggerations" on the 
subject of colonial slavery. As he has not condescended to 
specify any of these, I am at a loss to what points to direct 
my defence. He would insinuate, indeed, that 95 of the 103 
pages of which the pamphlet consists are of this description. 
He finds it easier, I am "persuaded, to pass this sweeping sen- 
tence upon them, than to grapple with their statements and 
arguments. For my own part, I do not feel that I have over- 
stepped the line of fair reasoning in the discussion of this 
large and most momentous question. I took up the arguments 
of my opponents, and replied to them in the best way I could. 

D 



34 

If I either mistated these arguments, or failed in refuting them, 
I became justly liable to the rebuke of the Author of the Reply. 
But is it fair, because some parts of that refutation may 
prove unpalatable to him and his friends, that I should there- 
fore be represented as labouring to " excite such an odium 
against the West-India planters as will dispose their fellow- 
subjects to ruin them without pity or remorse ;" and again, as 
"vilifying them'?" Whether in the pamphlet which is thus 
characterised I have vilified the West-Indian planters, or have 
conducted myself in the discussion and refutation of their claims 
with moderation and forbearance, will be better understood 
when the system of negro slavery comes itself, as it soon must, 
to be examined in Parliament. Already has the great leader 
in the cause of humanity made his eloquent and energetic 
" appeal to the religion, justice, and humanity of the inha- 
bitants of the British empire, in behalf of the negro slaves in 
the West Indies." Already have the friends of that cause in 
Liverpool exhibited to the world a just but appalling picture of 
" Negro Slavery," as it exists in the United States and in the 
British West Indies. Already has the impulse given on this 
subject been felt from one extremity of the empire to another ; 
and I am far from affecting to deny, that I cordially participate 
in it. But certainly, in conducting the discussion respecting 
East and West India sugar, I carefully abstained from the 
subject of negro slavery, except in as much as I was compelled 
to advert to ii by the course of my argument. 

From the tone, however, which is taken by the Author of 
the Reply, and by some others, it would appear as if there 
were something criminal, something which was an unpardona- 
ble outrage on candour and truth, in holding strong language 
on the subject of the personal slavery to which the wretched 
negroes are subjected in the British colonies. Is it then, in Great 
Britain; in the middle of the 19th century; after we have 
ourselves achieved the abolition of the slave-trade, and while we 
are urging other nations to abolish it after our example ; — is it 



35 

while in parliament, and out of parliament, every pulse beats 
high from a sense of the political wrongs inflicted on Spain ; 
and while the walls of the House' of Commons are still re- 
sounding, and our ears still tingle with the terrible eloquence 
which has denounced the oppressors of its rising freedom ;— 
is it, I say, under such circumstances, that we must select, 
with studious solicitude, the terms in which we speak of one 
of the greatest practical evils which can either afflict humanity, 
or stain the character of our country ; lest the feelings of 
those who are unfortunately holders of slaves should be wounded 
by what they choose to term invective 1 But to return. 

The writer of the Reply would persuade us (page 62) that 
the protection which West Indians seek against East Indians, 
is similar to what our agriculturists are seeking against foreign 
corn. The protection against foreign corn may be, and I 
believe is, unwise and impolitic, and it may even be injurious 
to the general interests of this country. But it cannot be said 
to be unjust towards France, or Poland, or Russia. The pro- 
tection, however, to West-India sugar against East-India sugars 
is not only both commercially impolitic and detrimental to 
the interests of the community at large, but it is unjust to 
British India ; as unjust as it would be to cut off the north of 
England from the right to supply London with corn, lest the 
interests of the south should suffer. 

It is amusing to hear this Author speak of the voluntary sur- 
render by the East-India Company of a part of their charter, 
when, in truth, there never was a more marked case of inevi- 
table compulsion. Doubtless, they took whatever Parliament, 
was pleased to allow them. But the terras of their charter were 
such as Parliament imposed, not as they would have chosen. 

I admit that I was incorrect in my conception of the mea- 
sures adopted relative to the trade of our North American 
Colonies. It was a diminution, and not a repeal, of the pro- 
tecting duties which was enacted. 

The Author of the Reply charges me with unfairness, be- 



36 

cause when the duties on sugar were fixed in 1787, I estimated 
the average price of sugar at 40s. per cwt. — and he quotes the 
high price in 1792 as a proof of it. I was looking to the past, 
however, and not to the future. The revolution of St. Domingo 
produced, it is true, an extraordinary rise in the price of sugar. 
But the Author of the Reply must be aware, had the duties 
still remained on the same footing on which they stood in 1787, 
that, during the last year, while West-India sugars were pay- 
ing 27s. a cwt. East-India would not have been paying more 
than 10s. or 12s. per cwt. 

Mr. Marryat endeavours to get rid of the impression of his 
speech in 1809, in favour of the free admission of Martinique 
sugars, by saying that his argument had a reference only to de- 
pendencies which were subjected to the colonial restrictions, 
and not to possessions like India which were free from them. 
But this is a complete misrepresentation of his own argument; 
for he there advocates the policy of admitting not merely the 
sugars of conquered colonies, but all foreign sugars. — His words 
are, "It is granted that, when charters were first given to encou- 
rage the settlement of the British Islands, and owing to the in- 
fancy of their establishment, it was an expedient and necessary 
encouragement to secure to them the exclusive supply of the 
British market, by imposing such duties on foreign sugars as 
should amount to a prohibition : but now it is evident that this 
restriction can no longer be of use to them," &c. " The 
charge of inconsistency, therefore," he adds, " cannot be 
brought against me." 

But, if he were consistent in 1809 in pleading for the free 
admission of foreign sugars, on the ground that the restriction 
was of no use to the West Indians, while it was injurious to 
other interests, he is surely inconsistent now in pleading for the 
exclusion of East-India sugars, more especially as he still ad- 
vocates the cause of foreign sugars. His argument in favour 
of the admission of foreign sugars I think perfectly sound ; 
but it does seem a most extraordinary piece of capriciousness 



37 

to argue, at the same moment, for the admission of foreign 
and the exclusion of East-India sugars. It is like arguing 
for the admission of Polish and the exclusion of Irish corn. 

The Author of the Reply accuses his opponents (p. 86) of 
reproaching the West Indians " with not being content with a 
fair market price;" while, although they are paying 6 per cent, 
on their borrowed capital, they do not make more than 1 per 
cent, of it. We certainly are wrongfully accused in this instance. 
We should be, indeed, most unreasonable, had we any reproach 
to make to the West Indians on this score. Our complaint is 
directed not against the West Indians, but against the policy of 
continuing, at an immense expense to the public, and to the great 
injury of many most valuable branches of trade and manufac- 
tures, to maintain a system which, by the Author's own admis- 
sion, is approaching with rapid strides to ruin ; more especially 
as this unwise policy is attended with actual injustice towards 
the population of British India, and with an aggravation of the 
sufferings even of the slaves in our West-Indian colonies. This 
is our subject of reproach. As for the West Indians, who, it is 
freely admitted, are objects of great commiseration, let them 
be indemnified, if entitled to indemnity, in some other way : 
in some way which may benefit them, without injuring others. 
The course now pursued, while it seriously injures others, yields 
them no real benefit. There are, perhaps, 2000 sugar estates in 
the West Indies. A pension of even £1000 a-year to the 
owners of each of these would not only infinitely more than 
compensate them for a business which only yields 1 per cent, 
on their capital, while they are paying 6; but it would 
be a saving to the country. Very much less than a fourth of 
this sum however, I am persuaded, would satisfy every claim 
that could fairly be urged on behalf of the West Indians, in case 
the present protection to their sugars were done away. On this 
point, I beg to refer you to the pamphlet on East and West 
India Sugar, p. 33-56. 

I will only make one more remark before I conclude this long 



.38 

letter : it is this, that Mr. Marryat, in professing to reply to 
the different pamphlets, which have recommended an equaliza- 
tion of the duties on East and West India sugar, has contrived 
to overlook many points of the greatest weight in the discussion. 
This is particularly the case in respect to that pamphlet with 
which I may be supposed to be best acquainted, and by far the 
greater part of which is left wholly untouched by his arguments. 

I remain with real regard, 

My Dear Sir, 

Yours, very faithfully, 

THE AUTHOR OF "EAST AND WEST 
INDIA SUGAR/' 



London, 14 March, 1823. 



March ant, Printer, Ingram Court, Fenchurch Street. 



