













1 






1 


I 








jjjjj 



I 



!5!':<:*:Ji<:«i:! 





- ■ ■ ■'■'',- ... . 






Stack 6 
Reserve 




. ::' : ;?:!:; 






..-.•■ 






PROPERTY OFTHE 







rJ^^m^ym^^^M^-^^^^t^'^^n^ 



/O 



A REVIEW 

OF THE 

REPORT OF A SELECT COMMITTEE 

OF THE HOUSE OP COMMONS, 

ON 

THE STATE * 

OF 

THE WEST INDIA COLONIES, 

ORDERED TO BE PRINTED, 13th APRIL, 1832; 

OR, THE 

INTERESTS OF THE COUNTRY 

AMD THE 

PROSPERITY OF THE WEST INDIA PLANTERS 

MUTUALLY SECURED BY THE IMMEDIATE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY- 






LIVERPOOL: 
PRINTED BY EGERTON SMITH AND CO. LORD.STREET. 

Sold by J : and A. Arch, Cornhill, and Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly, London. 

1833. 



s 



Digitized by the.^nternet Archive 

in 2011 with fphdlng from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reviewofreportof01deni 



REVIEW, &c 



The real cause of the depression and distress of the West 
India planters may be so clearly inferred from the concluding 
remarks in the Report, of which the following pages are a 
review, that we may very properly commence with an extract 
from it. The Committee say : — 

" In concluding their consideration of the causes of the 
depressed state of the West India Colonies, your Committee 
has not forgotten that that depressed state has existed in 
former times, and at periods anterior to the abolition of the 
slave trade. To one of these periods their attention has been 
specially called, by the reference of the report of the Com- 
mittee of 1807, whence it appears that during the late war, 
and while still supplied with slaves from Africa, the planters 
complained of inadequate returns, and of unequal competition 
in Foreign markets. These results were then ascribed to the 
circumstances of the war, which has long ceased, and were 
necessarily independent of the causes now alleged. Your 
Committee are well aware that this similarity of complaint, 
and discrepancy of assigned reasons, has occasioned some 
distrust of the accuracy of those which are now put forward. 

" But it appears to your Committee that the original cause 
of depression was, and is, the same at both periods, and the 
difference is in the circumstance of aggravation. That cause 
is in this, as in many other cases, over-production ; but in this 
case, as in no others of which your Committee are aware, 
entirely remediless on the part of the producer. 

" The West India Colonist not only feels, with any other 
proprietor of land, the difficulty of altering the application of 
his capital ; he not only feels, in a greater degree than pro- 
prietors in general, the difficulty of changing the appropriation 
of his soil ; he is subject to a burden peculiar to himself, that of 
maintaining, be his profits what they may, the whole body oj 
labourers, and of their familes, existing upon his land. He is 



4 

compelled, too, by a law, of which public considerations forbid 
the repeal, to maintain them in industrious employment, and 
is thus under the necessity of producing and re-producing the 
very article of which the superabundance depresses him." 

Distrust of the accuracy of the reason assigned for the 
distress of the Colonies is, indeed, very natural, under the pre- 
ceding circumstances. But it is strange that a committee of 
the House of Commons should be satisfied to leave this inves- 
tigation (for which they were specially appointed) in a state 
of distrust, where they had such abundant means for arriving 
at certainty. We must, however, endeavour to supply this 
extraordinary deficiency on their part, and we trust that we 
shall be able to prove, 

1st. That the slave-trading of the Brazilians gives them no 
advantage over the British Colonies; but, on the contrary, 
that the great loss which they sustain by it, is one chief means 
of enabling the British Colonies, in any degree, to compete 
with them. 

2d. That the mortgage system entails such burdens, and is 
attended by such disadvantages, as are sufficient to ruin any 
business. 

3d. That to maintain slavery, even without any profit, entails 
an enormous burden on this country, and that it cannot be 
much longer maintained without a prodigious increase of that 
burden. 

4th. That there is, therefore, no possible remedy but the 
immediate extinction of slavery. 

5th. That slavery may be abolished with immediate ad- 
vantage to all parties. 

The Committee attribute the distress to over-production. 
They say, " But in this case, as in no others, entirely remedi- 
less on the part of the planters." To what other cause 
can this peculiarity so " entirely remediless on the part of the 
planters" be attributed, but to the slavery in which their 
labourers are held ? And what is so likely to remedy this 
distress as its entire extinction ? 

The West Indians have been constant and zealous advocates 
for the abolition of the foreign slave trade, considering it the 
cause of their depression; and hence most of the wit- 
nesses adduce the continuance of it as a chief cause of their 



distress. So unanimous are they on this subject, that even 
the witness from Barbadoes, J. Pollard Mayers,* attributes the 
distress in that Colony to a regular and cheap supply of la- 
bour, afforded by the slave trade to their Brazilian rivals. 
This is strange on the part of a witness from a colony where 
Creole slaves (allowed to be superior to newly imported Afri- 
cans-}-) are to be had at little more than half price. | Indeed, 
with the exception of two of the Colonies, slaves may be pur- 
chased at a lower price in all of them than they sell for in 
the Brazils and Cuba.§ 

Although it seems so derogatory to the Divine goodness, 
so contrary to all his laws, that a system of such unparalleled 
wickedness, as the slave trade, should ever be advantageous, 
yet as statements so absurd have been listened to, and published 
by a British House of Commons, it is fit they should be 
examined and replied to. 

Most of the witnesses say that the newly imported Africans, 
being chiefly men, form gangs more effective than a Creole 
population would make, though inured to labour, and more 
intelligent and athletic. || 

* See evidence, Appendix to Report, No. 1429. 

f See No. 1276,2459,2467. • 

X Average prices paid for manumissions of slaves in the different Colonies 

from 1819 to 1825. — See Anti-slavery Reporter, vol. 2, No. 26, page 17. 

£ s. d. 

Bahamas 21 16 

Barbadoes 28 

Berbice "..90 

Demexara .•• 86 

Dominica 30 

Grenada 30 16 

Jamaica 45 12 

Nevis 35 

St. Kitt's 24 

St. Vincent's 16 15 

Tortola 17 10 



11)425 14 

Average £38 14 

§ See ditto, No. 2567 . . £50 to £55 

2812 £50 

182 in Cuba, 220 to 250 dollars, that is- -£48 to £55 
Mandingoes 300 dollars, or £65 

|| See Nos. 2459 and 2462. 



6 

This can easily be ascertained by the productions of our 
West India Colonies during the continuance of the slave trade, 
and at the present time. So far from any appearance of 
greater efficiency of the gangs during the slave trade, it ap- 
pears, on the contrary, that, from 1791 to 1795, the produce of 
the West India Colonies was only 4 £ cwt. per slave, whilst 
at the present (under all the disadvantages of which they 
complain) the produce is nearly G cwt. per slave, proving 
this allegation to be very strikingly contrary to the fact, and 
setting that point completely at rest. It will probably be said, 
that since the first period we have added our most fertile 
colonies, Demerara, Berbice, and Trinidad. This is very true, 
but these colonies contain only about one sixth-part of the 
slave population, and the old colonies are become more ex- 
hausted by the long cultivation of the cane. But of this more 
hereafter; it is enough to show, that in that respect the present 
period has no advantage over 1791 to 1795.* 

The cost of producing sugar in the British Colonies is 
stated to be 15s. lOd. per cwt. ; the expense of bringing it to 
market 8s. 6d., lately affording only 6d. per cwt. for interest 
of capital, &c, but now a loss of 6d. per cwt.f Where is the 
proof that the Brazilians do actually raise sugar cheaper ? 
I. B. Boothby states, No. 2105, that two estates, managed 
under trust, on which he is a creditor, have given nothing for 
the last two years beyond the expense of cultivation, though 
they are very fine estates.! G. T. Sealy says that the present 

* The importation of sugar from the British West India Colonies — (See 
Report of the State of the West India Colonies ordered to be printed 2£th 
July, 1807,) in 1791 to 1795 average 2,021,325. The slave population of the 
British Colonies in 1791, was, according to Brian Edwards : 



Jamaica 250,000 

Barbadoes 62,115 

Grenada 23,926 

St. Vincent 11,853 

Dominica 14,967 



362,861 



Antigua 37,808 

Montserat 10,000 

Nevis 8,420 

St. Kitt's 20,435 

Virgin Island 9,000 



85,663 
362,861 



448,524 
making the produce of sugar, 4,5 cwts. per slave.— The average produce ol 
the years 1827 to 1831 was 4,006,835, (the slave population being 678,527, See 
Anti-slavery Reporter, No. 100, page 259J being 5,9 cwt. per slave.)— The 
growth of coffee has also been doubled in that period ; but this has been 
counterbalanced by a great reduction in the growth of cotton. 

f See A. M'Donnell's evidence, Nos. 9 and 12. 

+ See No. 2213. 



prices do not remunerate the planter.* The Brazilian and 
British planters are, therefore, in just the same situation, 
neither of them obtaining any profit. 

It has already been proved that newly-imported Africans, 
instead of being more effective, and producing more sugar per 
slave, do actually pvoduce less, as might naturally be ex- 
pected from persons not inured to labour, and who are actu- 
ally dying off at the rate of 6 or 8 or 10 per cent, per annum,f 
from the effect of that labour. It next remains to be proved 
that these labourers are obtained, not at a less, but at a much 
greater expense. 

We will take one of the lowest estimates of decrease in the 
slave propulation of the Brazils and Cuba, say 6 per cent, per 
annum, which, as compared with the increase of 2-| per cent, in 
the United States, makes together 8| per cent. Now, if the aver- 
age production of our most fertile Colonies, Demerara, Trinidad, 
Grenada, and St. Vincent's, is, as stated by James M 'Queen, 
11| cwt. per slave; and, according to the Anti-slavery Reporter. 
No. 100, page 263, rather more than 12 cwt. per slave, the ave- 
rage cost of a slave in the Brazils being at least £50 ;i 8i per 
cent, on that sum is 85s., or 7s. Id. per cwt. on 12 cwt. of sugar: 
or, if compared with the British system, in which there is a loss 
of life of nearly 1 per cent,§ there would be a difference in its 
favour of 5 per cent., which on £50 is 50s., or 4s. 2d. per cwt. 
on 12 cwt. of sugar. 

Hence it appears, that not only are the newly-imported 
slaves less effective than Creoles, but this system of impor- 
tation is dearer by 7s. Id. per cwt. than the American, and 
4s. 2d. per cwt. than that of the British Colonies. This, of 
itself, might be a full answer to the ridiculous statement of 
the cost of raising children ;|| but it is deserving of attention 
as showing the miserable delusions to which men are liable, 
when they will not open their eyes to obvious truths ; when 

* See No. 2542. 

f See A. M'Donnell's evidence, No. 1262, and Evanson Alchome's 
estimate, page 273. 

+ See J. B. Boothby, evidence 2163, 2567 ; A. M'Donnell, 182 ; Joseph 
Marryat, 1236; G. T. Sealy, 2567 to 2569 ; Evanson Alchome, page 273. 

§ See T. F. Buxton's statement, Anti-slavery Reporter, No. 97. 

|| See John Innis's evidence, page 71 and 72, where the cost of raising a 
child to fourteen years is said to be £226 14s. lOd. 



they are not willing to see that slavery is the cause of all 
their distresses, and that immediate extinction is the only 
remedy. In this statement it is assumed that a mother's 
labour, whilst occupied in the care of her child, is worth £25 
per annum, though her employment at other times is that 
of producing sugar, which sell for a loss of 6d. per cwt. If a 
clear profit of 40s. per cwt., instead of 6d. loss, were made 
upon sugar, her labour might be worth £25 per annum. Pro- 
visions, clothing, and medical attendance, are charged in the 
second year at the rate of about £7 each ;* clothing and her- 
rings cost 32s. each per annum on the average, and could not 
be more than 16s. per annum for children; now if, besides 
herrings and clothing, one half day per week is sufficient to 
provide food for a slave and his family, and if we take the 
food according to this estimate to be worth £6 for a child, it 
must surely be worth £12 for a grown man, making £18 per 
annum, if he had no other than himself and one child to 
provide for; the value of his labour, for one twelfth part of 
his time, would be worth £18, or the whole £216 per annum, 
and yet the slaves who could make such an enormous sum by 
raising provisions, are stupidly kept to the cultivation of 
sugar, by which nothing is made. Labour in the West 
Indies is of as little value as it can be any where; if the 
planters, therefore, know no cheaper mode of raising children 
to the age of fourteen, than at the cost of £226 14s. lOd. 
each, James M'Queen could enlighten them on the subject. 
From him we learn that the poor weavers in Scotland only 
get 3s. 6d. to 5s. per week, and, at this rate, the whole 
wages of a grown man for fourteen years will be only 
£182. What could such a man afford to spend on each 
of his children ? Poor as their wages are, they maintain 
themselves at eight years of age, and will nearly have reim- 
bursed their parents at fourteen, f The children in the Colo- 

* Supplies to an estate of 345 slaves — See Anti-slavery Reporter, No. 97 
note, page 193. Clothing and medicines cost in England £238. The only 
food supplied was herrings, which cost £314, making together 32s. each. 

f In some of the hand-loom weaving districts in Lancashire parish relief 
is not allowed where the earnings of the family are Is. to 1 s. 6d. each. 

The father earns about 5 6 per week. 

A child at eight to ten 1 2 „ 

Ditto, ten to twelve 2 10 „ 

Ditto, twelve to fourteen .... 3 10 „ 



9 

nies must, at least, do as much, for in the report of the Bishop 
of Jamaica, the Golden Grove Estate is mentioned as an in 
stance of good management. There are here four different 
gangs ; 1st, men and women ; 2nd, boys and girls ; 3rd 
children; 4th, younger children, just old enough to be taken 
from the nursery. The first two are under drivers, and the 
last two under driveresses. Surely where provisions are so 
easily raised, and where the allowance for food and clothing 
beyond the produce of their own grounds does not exceed 16s. 
each, these children must have done more than repay their 
owner, before they reach the age of fourteen. 

Though we trust the whole foundation of the assertion, that 
newly imported Africans are more effective labourers, and that 
it is cheaper to import than to raise children, has been com- 
pletely destroyed, and all the superstructure built upon it 
crumbled to atoms, yet it may be well to pursue a little further 
the comparison of the Brazilian and British systems. Both 
are in very nearly the same situation, their sugars yielding no 
returns but just about paying all expenses, though their sys- 
tems are in many respects so widely different. 

If we say nothing of the higher price, the inferior quality of 
the slaves, and the less sugar produced by the imported Africans 
(all of which have been fully proved,) it will have been shown 
that in the destruction of life, and the expense of replacing it, 
the Brazilians suffer a disadvantage of 7s. Id. per cwt. in com- 
parison with the Americans, and of 4s. 2d. as compared with 
the British Colonies. They get their supplies chiefly from this 
country, but these are subject to a high duty on importation 
and their sugars also pay a higher duty on exportation. This 
import duty, at 20 per cent, may be estimated to add about 
Is. per cwt.* to the cost of the sugar, and the duty on export 
being 10 per cent, instead of 4-| per cent, may add 9d. more. 

* See I. B. Boothby, evidence No. 2109 and 2113. 

The European supplies to an estate producing 3461 cwt. of sugar (see 
Report of the State of the West India Colonies, ordered to be printed July 
1807, page 24) averages £1588 

But of this the lumber which the Brazilians do not? g™ 
import amounts to 5 

£908 



£908 at 20 per cent, is £181 12s., or rather more than Is. per cwt. on the sugar. 

B 



10 

The next advantage which the British planter enjoys ovei 
the Brazilian is the bounty on the exportation of refined sugar 
It is impossible exactly to ascertain what the country is made 
to pay, or what the planters receive from it. This manufac- 
ture differs from all others. Sugar is not refined in a way to 
suit the consumers, but to obtain the bounty ; it is not done 
in the best, but in the worst way, for it is evident that if the 
treacle be taken out in this country, it will only sell for about 
25s. per cwt. So much of the treacle as can be left in this 
inferior refined sugar will, in the first place, obtain the bounty 
of 36s. lOd. per cwt. ; and when taken out on the Continent 
by a second process of refining, will also sell for the market 
price there, which together will be double what would have 
been obtained for it if the process had been perfected in this 
country. 

The bounty on refined sugar is paid on a computation that 
I12lbs. of sugar yields 6llbs. refined, lSlbs. of bastards, (on 
which there would be a drawback of 24s.,) and 2Slbs. treacle — 

611bs refined 7 9n , , i 

drawback.. 36s. lOd. S ia ' 

181bs. bastards 3s. lOd. 



23s. lid. 
The duty on the raw sugar being, ,24s. Od. 
Besides this drawback, the treacle is brought into the home 
market without payment of any duty, the advantage being on 
281bs. at 9s. per cwt. 2s. 3d. ; and this would be the whole of 
the bounty on 1 cwt. of raw sugar, if no more than 611bs 
was produced. 

The West India merchants say, (in a statement in which 
they oppose the refining of Brazil sugar under this drawback 
system,) "that 781bs. of refined sugar was obtained from 
1 12lbs. of raw sugar, by the vacuum pan process, such as sold 
at 84s. per cwt. in the home market, but that it required 
1431bs of British muscovado to produce 78ibs. of a similar 
superior quality;" that is to say, 112 lbs. to produce 6 libs. 
A low description of refined sugar, made from Britsh mus- 
covado entitled to the full drawback, might at the same time 
be purchased at 63s. per cwt. Now, it must be evident, that 
if the refiner can get 6 libs, of superior refined, worth 84s. he 



11 

can get a greater quantity of the low description, worth only 
63s. or he would not make it. If 72lbs. of this low kind 
is obtained instead of 6 libs, it will add nearly 2s. 9d. to the 
bounty, or make it in the whole 5s., at which we believe it is 
underrated ; for on inquiry into the relative price of Brazil and 
British plantation sugar, we were shown one sample of Brazil 
which would have sold 5s., and another 10s. per cwt. higher, 
if it had been under similar circumstances to British planta- 
tion ; and therefore in rating the bounty at 5s. per cwt., we 
are persuaded it is below the truth. . But if the bounty raises 
the price to the British consumer 5s., it is far from being so 
much clear gain to the planter ; for in order to obtain this 
bounty, and also in consequence of his mortgage, he is obliged 
to send his sugar to the British market, and to forego the ad- 
vantage of a sale in the Colony, or a shipment to markets 
which, but for this bount} r , might be more advantageous ; he 
may also be induced by the terms of his mortgage, or the 
prqspect of this bounty, to continue the growth of sugar, 
when a different culture might be more advantageous to him. 
(See the evidence of W. R. K. Douglas, No. 667.) Though 
this bounty costs the country 5s. per cwt., or more than one 
million per annum, yet the advantage to the planter probably 
does not exceed one-half that sum. 

Charging a duty on a raw material, and allowing a bounty 
on a manufactured article, will generally occasion great loss 
to the revenue, and in no case is this more manifest than in 
this sugar bounty, and which, holding out an inducement 
to make the worst article instead of the best, we may hope is 
near its end. 

The advantages of the British, over the Brazilian rjlanter, 
are, as before stated — 

Per cwt ■'. 

In the cheaper system of slave labour 4s. 2d. 

In the bounty on exportation of refined sugar. .2s. 6d. 
In the duty on imports and exports Is. 9d. 

Total 8s. Gd. 

We come next to the examination of the advantages oi' 
the Brazilian planter over the British. 

I. B. Boothby (2140 to 2146) states the freight and all 



12 

charges, except merchants' commissions, on three parcels of 
sugar shipped to Liverpool, and two parcels to London, to be — 

3s. 6d.} 

3s. iOd. > To Liverpool. 

3s. 4d.) 

4s. 

5s. 3d. 



" > To London. 



|)20s. 6d. 
4s. lid. 
Merchants' commission, not in-") 

eluded in the above, 2^ per cent. ^ Os. 6d. 
on 20s J 

4s. 7id. 
The cost, as before stated by A. M'Donnell, of 

bringing British plantation to market, is. . . . 8s. 6d. 

Brazilian, as above 4s. 7^-d. 

Advantage to the Brazilian planter 3s. 10^. 

Though ships would prefer a voyage to the West Indies 
to one to the Brazils, if the freight were the same. — (See 
evidence, No. 2131.) 

This advantage to the Brazilian planter arises from the 
mortgage system of the British Colonies, the effects of which 
on the different items shall be examined. That the Brazilian 
planters reside on their estates, which are not mortgaged, and 
employ no attorneys, agents, &c. is too notorious to need any 
proof, or it might be fully* shown from this evidence that they 
have very seldom any white men between the planter and the 
slave, and that white agency would be dearer.f 

On an estate of 301 negroes in Jamaica, producing 244 
hhds. or 3461 cwts. of sugar, J there is an account of salaries 
and commissions, £609 sterling. Nearly the whole of this 
will be saved by the residence of the planter, in comparison 
with a case where he is actually maintained as a non-resident; 
but as the estimates of the cost of cultivation, to which we 
have referred, do not admit of such maintenance, we will only 
suppose one half to be saved, say £309, or Is. 9d. per cwt. 
on 3461 cwt. of sugar. 



* See evidence, 2116, 2118, 2119, 2593, 2181, 2596. 
t See evidence, 2597, 2598. 

X See report, state of West Indian Colonies, ordered to be printed 24th 
July, 1807— page 24 



13 

In the Brazils and Cuba a large proportion of the popula- 
tion are free,* and on that account the wages of labour 
will be much lower. Instead of importing lumber (see No. 
2587,) at a great expense, they are enabled to make the pack- 
ages for the sugar, of wood of their own growth, and the cotton 
bags are of their own manufacture : for the same reason also 
their sugars are clayed, whilst in our Colonies that is not done 
on account of the high rate of wages. Lumber for the repairs 
of buildings and casks in this estate costs £657, and on which 
the freight being at least two-thirds of the price, would be 
saved, say 2s. 6d. per cwt. on 3461 cwt. of sugar. 

The want of free labourers enhances the price of every 
thing in our Colonies to a great extent. The wages of free 
labour in Hayti are Is. to Is. 3d., being only about one-half 
the price paid in Jamaica. 

Recapitulation of the advantages of the Brazil planter : 
Difference of charge in bringing to market .... 3s. 10 *d. 

Agency 1 9 

Lumber 2 6 



1 



The residence of the Brazilian planters upon their estates, 
their freedom from the bondage of the mortgage system, and 
the cheapness and abundance of free labour, give to them 
most decided advantages, if these were not counterbalanced 
by the expense of destroying their labourers, and keeping up 
their numbers by fresh purchases : if, instead of this vast dis- 
advantage, (which has been shown to increase the cost of their 
sugar as compared with the British, 4s. 2d. per cwt.,) they had 
a gain of so much, which from the opinions of most of the 
witnesses we might be led to suppose, then, indeed, would they 
have been enjoying a high degree of prosperity, whilst their 
rivals were suffering severe distress. 

We shall now examine more at length the peculiar and ag- 
gravated hardships of the British planter, from the bondage 
in which he is held by his mortgagee. The rate of interest he 
is made to pay, including commercial advantages given to 
the mortgagee, must vary in almost every instance, according 

* See Admiral Fleming's evidence, p. 29. 



11 

to the amount of the loan and other circumstances. A case 
is mentioned by Andrew Colville, No. 290, in which the con- 
signment of 600 to 700 hhds. of sugar, and a considerable 
quantity of coffee, was unsuccessfully offered for a loan of 
£10,000. To say nothing of the coffee, 700 hhds. sugar, 14 
cwt. each, would be 9800 cwt, which, at 48s. per cwt., in- 
cluding duty, would amount to £23,520. 

Commission, 2-| per cent £588 

Brokerage, \ per cent 117 



705 



For 1 per cent, a respectable broker would ] 

do the whole business for a planter not \- 235 

under mortgage* J 

470 

Gain by freight, 2s. per cwt.f 980 

Effecting insurance, £8000 at -J per cent.i . . 40 
Guarantee of underwriters, -| per cent.§ .... 40 
Discount gained by the mortgagee, besides "1 

interest and commissions on supplies f q „ 
which, on 244 hhds. is £1588, or on 700 i 
hhds. £4555 at 5 per cent.|| J 

Being 3s. 8d. per cwt. on 9800 cwt. of sugar £1757 

* See No. 1988. 

f John Clint, ship-owner, produced the charter party of a vessel to and 
from the West Indies, to take a cargo out freight free and to take a discount 
of 30 per cent, off 5s. per cwt. at which the bills of lading were rilled up. 

1964. James Aikin, a ship-owner and ship-broker, would contract to 
bring home sugar at 3s. 

% 2111. C. S. Parker, West India merchant, not in the habit, in ordinary- 
cases, of charging freighl on coals out, but they have charged freight on coals. 

He admits they have charged freight on coals ; if this had not been either 
according to agreement or custom it would have been objected to, unless the 
planter was completely in the power of the mortgagee. 

1949. James Aikin chartered the Zoe in the West Indies at 2s. 9d. per cwt. 
bills of lading are filled up at 5s. per cwt. 

§ Merchants and brokers will effect the insurance without any charge of 
commission ; and as to the charge for guaranteeing underwriters, which is made 
in some cases, the risk does not deserve Is. per cent., and we know there are, 
houses who will undertake it for that charge. 

|| C. S. Parker acknowledges that the merchant gains 5 per cent, when 
12 months credit is given, or a discount of 10 per cent, allowed. He is asked 

2649. Do you know what is the discount allowed to merchants on supplied 
sent out independent of the credit? — I am not aware of any discount indepen- 
dent of the credit. 

2650. Do you know the house of William Fosbery and Company, in Liver- 
pool ?— I am acquainted with Mr. Fosbeiy : they have occasionally supplied 
us with goods. 

2651. If they state that West India hoes are from 9s. 6d. to 20s. per dozen 
with a discount of 15 per cent ; cane bills from 14s. to 18s. per dozen, with the 
same discount hatchets from lis. 9d. to 17s., with a discount of 10 per cent; 



15 

This estimate is more than confirmed by the fact that the 
charge on West India sugar is higher by 3s. 10^d. than on 
Brazil sugar, though the insurance to the Brazils is higher, 
and the ship-owners prefer a West Indian voyage at the same 
rate. In this instance, if £10,000 had been lent, the mort- 
gagee would have paid, in commercial advantages, 17i per 
cent, besides the interest of 6 per cent. ; but we may presume 
this loan was much less than is usually granted. If £20,000 
had been lent, the commercial advantages would have been 
8| per cent; or, if £25,000, 7 per cent, which, with the 

negro knives from 3s. to 6s., with a discount of 15 per cent ; negro razors and 
scissors, penknives, table knives and forks, coopers' and carpenters' tools, and 
nails, and general ironmongery of every description, at the lowest established 
prices, according to quality, the above discounts being for six months credit, 
five per cent, extra being allowed if paid in one month per bill at two months, — 
from your dealings in those articles, should you suppose that this is a correct 
statement of the prices at which they would be willing to supply a West 
India house 1 — We have ceased to deal with them for some years ; our supplies 
are derived from other houses; the only discount is of the kind I have men- 
tioned, the difference between cash and credit at 10 per cent, interest per 
annum. 

2652. Do you know the house of J . Leishman and Welsh, great copper 
manufacturers ? — I do. 

2653. Do you employ them! — We do. 

2654. Are you aware of the discount which they allow, or of their credit 
— My impression is, that their credits are nine months, or a discount of 7^ 
per cent. 

2655. If you received a note from that house stating that their discount 
was 10 per cent., with a bill at three months, or six months — and three months 
credit, you would have no hesitation in dealing with them on those terms ? — 
We certainly should ; for I should think it dishonest to take a larger dis- 
count than one calculated at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum. 

2656. If they were to send in a statement : copper stills with block tin 
worms, viz. 90 gallons, weighing about 7 cwt., at Is. 4d. per lb. ; 110 gallons 
weighing about 8 cwt., at Is. 4d. ; 150 gallons, weighing about 1 1 cwt., at Is. 4d.; 
copper teaches, 40 gallons, weighing about 3 cwt. 2qrs. ; 60 gallons, weighing 
about 4 cwt. ; 80 gallons, weighing about 4 cwt. 2 qrs. ; 100 gallons, weighing 
about 5 cwt; 120 gallons, weighing about 5 cwt, 2 qrs. ; 200 gallons, weighing 
about 6 cwt. 2 qrs. ; making a total of 29 cwt. at 17f per pound, 10 per cent, 
discount for bill at three months, or six months and three months credit, they 
are a house of such respectability, you would have no doubt they would per- 
form their contract? — They are a house of the highest respectability. 

2758. Some manufacturers, it appears, offer a large discount to amerchant, 
making, in fact, a larger price ; does the merchant charge the real price, or 
the nominal price, or are two prices known in such cases* — I have heard ru- 
mours to that effect in the case I have alluded to. 

2759. Do you believe it to be so I — I do believe it has been done in some 
instances. 

2760. Do you mean to say that no such transaction has ever, while you 
have been a merchant at Liverpool, come within your own knowledge'! — I 
would rather, from motives of delicacy, solely arising from the manner in 
which the information reached me, decline answering that question. 

There appears to be something unaccountable in considering the pocketing 
of a discount of 15 to 20 per cent, as dishonest, after taking a discount of 30 
and even 45 per cent, on the freight. This is, however, enough to prove that 
the advantage, exclusive of interest and commission, is greatly underrated at 5 
per cent. 



16 

interest of 6 per cent., makes 13 percent. James Colquhoun, 
Colonial Agent, says, (No. 987,) loans could not be procured 
at the island interest and commercial charges, amounting 
together from 15 to 20 per cent. James Aikin (No. 1963) 
calculates the planters must have been paying about 20 per 
cent, for money borrowed. 

This is not the whole disadvantage of the mortgage; for even 
if the bounty was not allowed in this country, the planter would 
still be obliged to send his sugar to England, whatever advan- 
tages a sale in the West Indies, or a shipment to a continental 
port, might offer. He is also, in some cases, compelled to 
manage his estate in a way to give the mortgagee the best com- 
mission, though a different course would be for his own interest. 
W. R. K. Douglas says, (No. 667,) " I consider myself, in the 
present state of the West India Colonies, that the practice of 
advancing so largely has been a great detriment ; in many 
respects the planter is in a great measure a nominal person, 
who has an account in the books of the merchant ; advances 
are made to him, he exercises no control over the detailed 
management of his property, the merchant is not in a situation 
to take the minute direction of the person who is put into the 
management of the estate, and often a great deal of mis- 
management arises from that circumstance. I believe the 
general state of the West Indies would be very much im- 
proved if those advances were entirely at an end ; and the 
property, instead of being in a sort of nominal possession of 
the merchant, with large advances, became his own property; 
for in that case I believe the management would be probably 
more minute than it is at present." 

Let any man of business read the account of this one branch 
of the subject, and then let him say, whether this alone is not 
sufficient to account for all the distress of the planters, and 
quite enough to ruin any business whatever. 

In the course of this inquiry many of the witnesses speak 
of the exhaustion of the soil by long cultivation ;* this is a 
well-known, and long-admitted fact, and we therefore need 
not dwell on the proof; but the cause of it merits a particular 
investigation. 

* See No. 486, 856, 1029, 1436, 1437, 1672, 1735, 2892. 



17 

That exhaustion of soil is not the result of good cultivation, 
is a fact well known ; — if this were the course of things, the 
earth would long ago have become barren and unproductive. 

The population of England in 1750 was estimated at 
6,467,000; from the year 1755 to 1770, the average exporta- 
tion of wheat exceeded the average importations by a quan- 
tity only sufficient to supply the people, at the present esti- 
mated rate of consumption, for rather less than one week. 
Though the population has doubled, being by the last 
census, 13,089,538, such has been the improvement in agri- 
culture, that we do not now, on the average, import more 
wheat than is needed to supply the consumption for three 
weeks. And if we allow for the improved habits of the people, 
the produce of this country must have been doubled. These 
improved habits are strikingly shown in the increased rate 
of consumption of sugar, it being now 50 per cent, more than 
in 1790. But what is the cause of deterioration in the 
West Indies, and improvement in this country ? It does 
not arise from any peculiarity in the cultivation of the 
cane. Wheat, oats, or barley, would exhaust the soils, if 
cultivated year after year without a change. The regular 
alternation of cattle and green crops, in many counties in Eng- 
land, whilst adding cattle to the productions of the soil, has, 
at the same time, greatly increased the produce of grain. No 
improvement in this respect is yet introduced into the Colo- 
nies ; instead of availing themselves of the means so evidently 
within their own power, the planters apply to the Legislature 
for relief, and have, time after time, obtained bounties and 
protections to bolster up their system. 

Though we trust that enough has been said to convince any 
unprejudiced mind, that instead of slave trading giving to the 
Brazilians any advantages, it has been as destructive of their 
own property, as of the lives of the poor victims of their 
cupidity, and that, instead of its being the cause of the distress 
of the British planters, that distress would have been infinitely 
greater if their slave trade, like that of the British and the 
American, had been abolished in 1807, and the Brazilians had 
pursued the course the Americans are doing, yet the folly of 
all these allegations will be abundantly manifested by the 
account of the American slave system, which we are now about 



18 

to give ; and where our statements in these respects are sup- 
ported by the undeniable authority of facts on an immense 
scale, in the United States of America, the examination of 
which we shall introduce by inserting page 264 of No. 100, 
Anti-slavery Reporter : — 

"The slave-trade ceased in the United States of America* 
and in the British West Indies, in the very same year, namely, 
1808. The relative proportion of imported Africans, on which 
the West Indians lay so much stress as accounting for the 
decrease of their slaves notwithstanding the boasted lenity of 
their treatment, must, therefore, have been nearly the same in 
the two cases. But have the results been the same ? In one 
of our late numbers (No. 97, p. 102) we have shown that, in 
1808, the slave population of the United States must have 
amounted to about 1,130,000, and that of the British West 
Indies to about 800,000. In 1830, after an interval of 22 years, 
the slaves of the United States amounted, by actual census, to 
2,010,436 ; being an increase of 880,436, or about 80 per cent 
in that time. It appears, from the preceding tables, that in or 
about the year 1829, the slaves in all the British West Indies 
did not exceed 696,441 ; and in 1830, therefore, could not have 
exceeded 695,000, being a decrease of at least 10-5,000 slaves 
in the same period of 22 years. Now, had the British slaves 
increased, during that time, at the same rate with the Ame- 
rican slaves, their number, in 1830, instead of being only 
695,000, would have been 1,423,317, making the enormous 
decrease, as compared with the progress of population in the 
United States, of 728,317, a waste of life exceeding by nearly 
5 per cent, the number of the existing population. A similar 
result would be produced by a comparison of the progress of 
population among the slaves, with that of the free black and 
coloured classes, inhabiting the same colonies. Had they 
even increased at the rate of the Maroons in Jamaica, the least 
favourably circumstanced of those classes, the 695,000 slaves 
of the West Indies would have grown, in 1830, to 1,240,000, 
or if at the rate of the free classes in Trinidad, to 1,500,000. 

" These facts constitute a charge against Colonial slavery 
which no sophistry can elude. After every deduction which 
the most elaborate ingenuity can suggest, it will remain under 
the stigma of being one of the heaviest curses which afflicts 



10 

humanity, and this indepently of the unnumbered political;, 
moral, and spiritual evils which directly flow from it. And 
yet here are we, with our Government, and our Parliament, in 
this land of Christian light and liberty, coolly deliberating 
whether this curse, inflicted by ourselves on our fellow-subjects, 
shall be at once removed, or shall be permitted for months or 
years longer to oppress and desolate one of the fairest portions 
of the creation of God ! How long shall we continue to 
endure this depressing load of conscious guilt ?" 

To this we may add, that the slave population of these 
States in 1820 was 1,531,431, hence there had been an increase 
in the last ten years of 479,005 ; if, instead of increasing, their 
population had decreased, as in the Brazils, at the rate of 6 
per cent, per annum, that would have made 918,840, or 
together 1,397,840, to have been supplied by importation, 
which, at £50 each, would be £69,892,000. Now, the whole 
value of the cotton grown in these same ten years was only 
about £50,000,000. What, then, would have become of the 
American cotton growers, if they had followed the Brazilian 
system of supplying labourers ? But, according to the West 
Indian estimates, their plan of breeding is still more expensive. 
To have supplied only the increase just mentioned at the rate 
of £226 14s. 10d., it would have cost more than 100 millions 
sterling, and nearly as much more to have supplied the place 
of those who had died. It is often said, that Virginia makes 
more by the breeding of slaves than by the growth of tobacco, 
though the price they obtain for children, is probably not 
much more than one-tenth of the price mentioned in this esti- 
mate. What would these American slave-breeders say to this ? 

But we now come to the proof of the whole affair. The 
Brazilians are slave-importers — the Americans are slave- 
breeders. Cotton is extensively grown in both countries. The 
planters reside on their estates in both, which are generally 
free from mortgage: the trade of the world is free to both, 
and neither of them enjoy bounties or protections. There is, 
therefore, perfectly fair play for the trial of the two systems. 
The point at issue, therefore, is, which of the two has succeeded 
best, remembering that the only difference between them is, 
slave importing and slave breeding. Commencing with the 
peace of 1814, when the slave trade was carried on with renewed 



20 

vigour, the Brazilians supplied this country with 128,472 
bags of cotton, whilst the Americans little exceeded them in 
number of bags, being then only 165,046. But in the years 
1827 to 1831, we find the American supply had increased to 
556,307 ; being 337 per cent, whilst the Brazilian supply had 
only increased to 161,467 bags, or about 25 percent.* The 
price of cottonf is reduced from 18|d. to 6-|d. Which of the 
two countries has caused this reduction? They are on a par 
in every thing but breeding and importing slaves. After this 
proof, is it possible that we shall hear any more of the Brazil- 
ians underselling our Colonists, because they are allowed to 
import slaves ? 

We cannot leave this subject without calling attention to 
the important fact, that though the American cultivation of 
cotton by slavery, has almost wholly superseded its growth in 
our Colonies, and greatly checked its increase in the Brazils, 
yet the Carolinians themselves have been driven out of the cul- 
tivation of indigo, in consequence of its still cheaper produc- 
tion by free labour in the East Indies ! 

* Importation of cotton from the Brazils into Great Britain : — 
1814.. 150,930 1827.. 120,1 11 

1815.. 91,055 1828. .167,362 

1816 . . 123,450 1829 . . 159,536 

1817.. 114,518 1830.. 191,468 

1818.. 162,4^9 1831.. 168,880 



|)642,362 |)807,357 



Average.... 128,072 161,471 

being an increase of 25 per cent. 
Importation of cotton into Great Britain from the United States : 

1814.. 48,853 1827.. 646,776 

1815. 203,031 1828.-444,390 

1816.. 166,077 1829.-463,076 

1817.-199,669 1830.-618,527 

1818.. 201,580 1831.. 608,767 

-1)825,230 -1)2,781,536 

Average 165,046 556,307 

•J- The price of American Upland cotton in 

1815.. 20|d. 1827. .6|d. 

1816.. 18^ 1828.. 6| 

1817.. 20 1829.. 5| 

1818.. 20 1830. .6g 

1819.. 13| 1831.. 5| 

l)92j l)33f 

185 64 



21 

The American slave system is superior to every other ; 
and it is very important to know why they were induced to 
adopt it. Was this preference from any greater humanity on 
their part ? By no means ; they were driven to it by absolute 
necessity. 

In the year 1791 the whole amount of the exports from 
Virginia and the states southward, was only about 56s. for 
every slave. No other circumstances were therefore needed 
to put an end to the slave trade ; the poverty of the slave- 
owners was quite sufficient to effect it ; and we find that the 
abolition of the African slave trade was general in the United 
States, as the act of particular states, prior to the year 1790. 
By the cultivation of cotton, however, the exports from South 
Carolina were increased in 1807 to the value of £12 10s. per 
slave ; their ports were, in consequence, again opened to the 
importation of slaves from Africa, until the General Govern- 
ment finally abolished the trade in 1808, as early as, by the 
Constitution, it was empowered to do. 

But perhaps there is not much to advance, even in this 
case, in favour of motives ; for in 1821 the same Government 
which had previously, in 1808, interdicted the importation 
from Africa, opened a new market in the Missouri for the 
sale of slaves bred in its own states. 

When the exports of the produce of slave labour in the 
southern states of America did not exceed 56s. per slave per 
annum, the value of the exports from Jamaica, say in 1807-8, 
amounted to 2,136,442,* or about £8 10s. per slave; hence 
Jamaica was enabled to continue the slave trade ; and it has 
been estimated thatf 188,785 were added by importation 
into this one island, between that period and its abolition 
in 1808. 

Had necessity induced our planters to adopt the same 
plans, it is highly probable that by this time we should 
neither have had slave trade nor slavery, for nothing can be 
more obvious than that the value of any commodity depends 
on its plenty or scarcity, or on the proportion of supply to 
demand. Slaves, as property, are governed by the same 
rule ; they are cheap or dear according to the quantity of 

* See Brian Edwards's History of the West Indies, vol. 1, page 287. 
f Review of Registry Laws, page 74, 



22 

land for cultivation. An increase of population makes men 
cheap; so that when they become burdensome, as in this 
country, and parishes are willing to give money to get rid of 
them, slavery will cease, whether allowed by law or not, just 
on the same principle as there will be an end of the slave 
trade when profit can no longer be obtained by it. 

The slave trade for the growth of indigo must long ago 
have ceased, and if there are still any slaves imported for the 
growth of cotton in the Brazils, they must be very few. We 
shall next endeavour to show that the West Indians need not 
have complained of the continuance of the slave trade, if they 
had made use of the means they had in their own power to destroy 
it. Had the slave population increased there since 1808 like the 
American, the numbers would have been 728,317 more than 
they now are, sufficient to have produced an increase of 
nearly 250,000 tons of sugar per annum; whilst the whole 
increase in the Brazils, Cuba, and the French islands, where 
slave trading has been continued, is only 115,000 tons.* Had 
the British Colonies grown 250,000 tons in addition, there can 
be no doubt that they would have superseded the increase by 
slave trading, as the Americans have done in the case of cotton. 
Under these circumstances, there can be doubt that the price 
of sugar would have fallen, as that of cotton has done, and 
probably in nearly the same proportion ; and with the price 
of sugar, the price of slaves would have fallen, until they would 
not pay for importation : then, indeed, would there have been 
an end of the slave trade, by that irreversible law, which, in 
the nature of things, will force any man to abandon a losing 
trade. 

What, then, are the prospects of the West India planters, 
supposing slavery should not be extinguished ? It is perfectly 
clear that a Parliament representing the people, and at- 
tending to their interests, will never continue to burden 
them for the support of an old and exploded system, even 
if inhumanity were not attached to it ; they will not conti- 
nue to pay one million per year to raise the price of sugar 
to the British consumers, and more than another million for 
naval and military establishments to keep the slaves in sub- 
jection; and much less will they double this enormous tax- 

* This estimate is founded on Trueman and Cooke's state of the commerce 
of Great Britain, for 1831. 



23 

ation, by raising the price of sugar 10s. per cwt., as proposed 
by some of the witnesses. On the contrary, there is little doubt 
that the duties on sugar from the East and West Indies will be 
equalized, and that British skill and capital will soon be em- 
ployed in the improvement of its cultivation and manufacture, 
and that even the present price of sugar will not be maintained 
The very rapid increase of the cultivation of sugar in the United 
States, is another almost equally astounding fact. The quan 
tity produced has advanced in a few years to 45,000 tons per 
annum ; and when we see that the growth of cotton has more 
than doubled in the last seven years, it will be acknowledged 
that the Americans are infinitely more formidable rivals than 
the slave-trading Brazilians ; and should the latter be driven 
to adopt the American improvements — for they have no mother 
country to uphold their follies by bounties and protections — 
the maintenance of slavery in the British Colonies will then 
be utterly hopeless. 

How are these already pressing, and still heavier impend- 
ing evils to be remedied ? The country should not forget 
that it has nursed the West Indians into these difficulties, and 
must help them out of them. They must be met by measures 
proportioned to their great magnitude, and worthy of a 
Government possessing the confidence of the country; and 
then the immediate advantage of all parties concerned may 
be at once secured : — 1st, the slaves must be immediately 
emancipated, under such regulations as will secure their in- 
dustrious habits and orderly conduct; 2nd, the planters must 
also be emancipated from the bondage of their debts, and be 
enabled to adopt and carry on the improvements with spirit, 
even if this should require a loan of a large amount ; 3rd, the 
duties on West and East India sugar must be equalized, the 
bounty on the export of refined sugar must be given up, and re 
fining in bond must be substituted. The duty on sugar should 
be reduced one-fourth, or 6s. per cwt. 4th, in order to secure 
the industrious habits of the negroes — and to give a value 
to the land, the negroes should be prevented from settling in 
the waste lands still belonging to Government. 

To make the proposed loan effectual, the amount must be 
large. It is a notorious fact, that a very large proportion of 
the West India estates are mortgaged, and that in some cases 
the interest and commercial advantages will be 15 or 20 per 



24 

cent on the sum lent. There is little doubt that Government 
could borrow money and lend it to the West Indians 10 per 
cent, below what they are now paying for it ; and it is not 
improbable that the mortgages may amount to £15,000,000, 
which, if lent 10 per cent, cheaper than it now costs, would 
be an advantage of £1,500,000 per annum. This loan of 
£15,000,000 might be divided amongst the planters, according 
to the value of the slaves in the different Colonies, being 
about two-fifths of their present value. If they are worth £20 
in the Bahamas, the loan would be £8 ; if £50 in Jamaica, 
the loan would be £20; and if £80 in Demerara, the loan 
would be £32. This money would, of course, be lent upon 
the land and buildings on the condition of an immediate 
emancipation of the slaves. 

It is proposed that the loan should be offered to all the 
planters, whether they are in debt or not, in proportion to 
the number of their slaves. The value of the slaves will be 
a correct criterion of the value of the security, as their price 
will be in proportion to the value and fertility of the soil. 

It is expected that most of the planters would accept such 
loan upon the land and buildings in the Colonies, without 
involving the property they may have in this country. They 
will be thereby relieved from any unnecessary alarms about 
loss from emancipation, at least, so far as this loan goes. 

The owners of jobbing gangs, who do not possess land, 
might be accommodated with a grant, and a loan upon it, on 
condition that the land should be improved, and brought into 
cultivation. 

This loan might not extricate every planter. Some of 
their properties may be so far involved in debt, as to be 
beyond redemption ; others, though not entirely freed from 
incumbrance, would find it so lightened, that they could 
make a far better bargain with a consignee : but it is hoped 
that by far the largest proportion would be entirely emanci- 
pated from all their trammels by the proposed loan. 

There could be no risk whatever of the security, or even 
of the regular payment of interest, for the produce would be 
shipped to this country, or, in case of shipment to any other, 
the interest of the loan should first be paid at the colonial 
custom-house. 

If equally satisfactory to the planters, the money might 



25 

be lent more liberally to those who are in debt, and nothing 
to those who do not need it ; in such a case a much less sum 
would probably be called for. 

Such a loan would obviate one of the great disadvantages 
of the British slave system, as compared with the Brazils and 
Cuba, the non-residence of the planters ; and which admits 
of no remedy whilst slavery exists, without sacrifices that 
many of the proprietors would be very unwilling to make. 
When the slaves are emancipated, the estates, with the 
sugar mills, might be let to tenants, who would manage them 
with emancipated labourers, and pay a rent as English farmers 
do. The mere collection of rents for non-resident planters would 
be very simple, and would only cost a moderate commission 
upon the nett income, instead of a high rate on the gross pro- 
duce. At present the charges of management to non-resident 
proprietors is very great. On the estate of 301 negroes, before 
referred to, the salaries and commissions were £609, or fully £2 
per slave; this would make nearly \\ millions ; but we may 
very safely conclude that at least half a million per annum 
might be saved in this item. Few, if any, concerns can be suc- 
cessfully managed by agents, in the absence of the party in- 
terested, and least of all agricultural. Here the advantages of 
the presence of the planter, his having the unshackled manage- 
ment of his own concerns, and depending on that management 
alone for success, would be almost incalculable. 

Under a proper system of culture, instead of deterioration 
of soil, and diminution of produce, as is now the case, the 
lands would improve, and an increase of crops would be the 
consequence. Before the general adoption of the present 
mode of alternating with green crops and cattle, the soils in 
some parts of England were deteriorating, and would no 
doubt have been still more impoverished, if a bounty had 
been given to them to grow corn year after year, as has been 
done in the case of sugar in the Colonies ; but our farmers 
were left to themselves; in consequence of which their system 
is improved ; they have not only produced vast numbers of 
cattle, but they have grown more corn than ever. There can, 
therefore, be no doubt that if the same plan were introduced 
in our sugar Colonies, we should soon have in many of them 
an increase of 50 per cent, in the growth of sugar, with little 
or no additional expense, and more powerful and effective 



26 

labourers from the use of animal food. The absurdity of the 
present system, and mismanagement under it, are almost 
incredible. In the expenditure of the before-mentioned estate, 
live stock, mules, and cattle are charged £657 sterling, many 
of these must have been cows or oxen, and yet we find no 
credit given for the sale of any of them, but, on the contrary, 
the account is debited £149 for fresh beef.* On these two 
points there is abundant room for improved management. 

The plough ought to be generally introduced ; but, as is 
natural, the planters do not admit that any further improve- 
ments could be made in their practice ; it would be strange 
if, when seeking help from the Legislature, they should admit 
they had not done all they could for themselves. It may 
be said that we are meddling with things we do not under- 
stand ; our reply to this is, the planters want our money 
to compensate for their own neglect ; that it is strictly our 
business to look to that, and more especially when they have 
manifested such consummate ignorance of their own concerns 
as to suppose it would cost them £226 14s. lOd. to raise a 
child to fourteen years, and that it was cheaper to import than 
to breed slaves. Slavery, the source of all these evils, is the 
great hindrance to the use of the plough. If our farmers could 
not obtain extra hands in crop time, they would be obliged 
to keep on their own farms an additional number, whom 
they must employ all the year round. Now, this is pre- 
cisely the situation of the planters, and therefore a saving of 
labour at other times of the year is of very little importance ; 
but let the labourers be made free, let the plough be introduced 
wherever it is practicable, and they may reduce more than one 
half their labourers, except in crop time. The men set at 
liberty from the sugar planting, might rent lands from the 
proprietor, for the cultivation of cotton or coffee, or any other 
articles of which the crop is not gathered at the same time as 
sugar; they could then assist in the sugar crop, and their wages 
would assist them to pay their rents. This, amongst many 
others, would be the obvious advantage of emancipation, but 
the exact extent cannot be easily ascertained. 

By giving up the bounty, the country would gain about 
one million sterling per annum, though, as before shown, the 

* See Report of the Commmittee on the Trade with the West India Colo- 
nies, page 24, ordered to be printed 24th July, 1807. 



27 

planters would not lose more than one half, say £500,000 per 
annum. But the removal of this absurd system would reduce 
the price of sugar to the consumer 5s. per cwt. ; and if the duty 
were lowered 6s. it would make together a reduction of lis. 
per cwt ; and reduce the average cost of sugar below 4d. per 
lb. : this would occasion such an increase of consumption as 
must raise the price, and it is difficult to say how this lis. 
would be divided between the public and the planters; it is 
very probable that, of such a reduction, the latter would 
gain 5s. per cwt. or about one million sterling. By such a 
bold and liberal measure the interest of the planters would be 
placed upon a firm and permanent foundation. 

The negroes should not be allowed to settle on th'e waste 
lands, except on such terms as will give a preference to the 
lands of the planters, but which, at the same time, should be 
so moderate as to keep in check any exorbitant demands for 
rent on their part. 

The slave population of our Colonies, as has been shown in 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 100, is decreasing at the rate of 
nearly 5000 per annum, when it ought to have increased at 
the rate of more than 15,000 per annum, making a difference 
of 20,000, and being a loss, at £50 each, of one million per 
annum. This could be easily saved by better treatment. When 
emancipated, they will no longer be the property of the mas- 
ter ; but it may be shown that, as landowners, their property 
will be more increased by an addition to the free population 
than if the same persons were held in slavery. 

In case of emancipation, there will be 20,000 more people 
annually than in their present state. These must have a 
subsistence; and as they cannot obtain land without rent, 
they must either pay for it, or hire themselves to some master, 
who will employ them in its cultivation. In this country 
there is about 2|- acres of land for every individual ; and if 
these Colonists (being almost wholly employed in agricul- 
ture) are the means of bringing into cultivation 50,000 
acres of land, at a rent of 20s. per acre, the land thus annually 
brought into cultivation, valued at twenty years' purchase, 
would be worth one million sterling.* 

Besides all these permanent advantages, there would pro- 
bably be a large temporary profit from a reduction in the 

* The rent of land occupied by free settlers in Jamaica, is £2 per acre. — See 
J. B. Wildman's evidence, Anti Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p, 450. 



28 

cultivation of sugar, the growth of which might, for a few years, 
be brought below the increased consumption of the country, 
the present growth being 30,000 to 40,000 tons per annum 
above it. Two motives which now operate on the growth of 
sugar would not then exist,— the bargain with the mortgagee 
and the bounty. If the growth should be reduced only 
20,000 tons, or to about 180,000 tons per annum, an advance 
of 6s. per cwt., which would not raise it above its present price, 
would be very probable, and would add to the profits of the 
planters £1,080,000 per annum. To give such a temporary 
advance of price, in order to introduce the cultivation by free 
labour in the West, and improve and extend it, in the East, 
would very soon be repaid by more abundant supplies, and 
lower prices. 

Recapitulation of the advantages to the planters :— 

The loan, 15 millions at 10 per cent, less than is ) . _„^ q~„ 

is now paid 5 ' ' 

Saving in agency commissions in the Colonies, &c. . . 500,000 

Advance of price from increased consumption 1,000,000 

From improved cultivation a large profit might be" 
anticipated if it should add only one-fifth to the 
crop of sugar it would make one million. The 
increased revenue from land brought annually ^1,000,000 
into cultivation has been estimated at one mil- | 
lion, but as neither admit of any great accuracy j 

we will put down for both J 

The advantage of free trade is in part included in! 

the preceding estimates of advantage from the }- 

loan, and deduction from the bounty J 

By the general abolition of bounties and protections ^ 
the West India Interest would gain materially j 

in the case of their sugar and molasses in the )* 

breweries and distilleries, and in the duty on | 
rum J 

Total advantage 4,000,000 

Deduct loss by giving up the bounty 500,000 



3,500,000 
Temporary 1,080,000 



£4,580,000 

Most of the preceding advantages are of a nature which 

does not admit of very accurate estimation, but we trust 

enough has been proved to show that the planters may obtain, 

by emancipation, more than the most sanguine of the witnesses 



29 

sought for, by an increase of the bounty of 10s. per cwt. 
The maintenance of the system in that way would have 
cost the country more than four millions per annum ; whilst, 
on the contrary, this plan will probably save to the country 
more than one million sterling - annually, in the price of sugar. 
When the preceding statements have been well considered, 
together with the more recent evidence analyzed in the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. 104, of the fitness of the slaves for imme- 
diate emancipation, and of their great willingness to work when 
an inducement is offered to them, we trust that the planters will 
have no cause to be alarmed on account of apprehended loss, 
nor the people on account of any compensation to be paid by 
the country. What compensation indeed could be due, where 
there is confessedly now no profit, though the system is at this 
time maintained at an unwarrantable expense to the country ? 
Rut we have gone beyond the demands of the planters; we 
have not only appropriated a sum for their compensation, if 
they should make out a fair claim to it, but we have already 
placed that sum in their hands ! ! 



Extract from Admiral Fleming's evidence before a Com- 
mittee of the House of Commons on the extinction of slavery. 
— See Anti-Slavery Reporter, JVo. 104, page 380. 

The Admiral had been more in Cuba, and knew more of 
it than of Jamaica. The number of free people there is very 
great. The whites are about 380,000, the free coloured 
136,000 to 150,000, the slaves 200,000 to 220,000; this he drew 
from public documents; but the returns are somewhat con- 
fused. They are made up by the priests in different parishes. 
The free people generally are in good condition in Cuba ; 
many of the browns and of the blacks too, are very rich. He 
had never heard in Cuba of any complaints of a want of 
industry in the freed classes. A great many of them are 
employed in cultivating sugar in Cuba. Even some whites 
work in the field in Cuba who come from the Canaries, and 
manage all the indigo culture. He had himself seen the free 
people digging cane holes, and some of them work their whole 



30 

estates without slaves, growing the canes, and selling them to 
persons who boil the juice. He could not tell how many 
were so employed in Cuba ; the number was considerable ; 
and when they were deficient in hands at any time on sugar 
plantations, they hired additional labourers, at two pisettas, or 
Is. 8d. to half a dollar a day, sometimes more, usually paid 
in coin, but sometimes in goods. 

Thus we see it is not the importation of slaves, but the 
number of free labourers, which gives the Cubans the advan- 
tage. We have not found any accurate census of Brazil. In 
Walsh's Notices it is stated, vol. 1, p. 462, that in 181 1 an 
incorrect census was taken of the whole country, when the 
inhabitants were said to amount to three millions. In Rio, 
about one-third of the population were slaves. 



EGERTON SMITH AND CO. PRINTERS, IIVERPOOL, 








rii>-i*ituuf (!>J»i>?>. 



