
.tt^#y£2**?^ 



^P^ 



■v. 



^ 



^ 



\ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/substanceofspeecOOthom 



Vo./u, i*i&*>*i 



SUBSTANCE 



SPEECH DELIVERED AT THE MEETING 



EDINBURGH SOCIETY 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 



OCTOBER 19, 1830. 



ANDREW THOMSON, D.D. 

MINISTER OF ST. GEORGE^ CHURCH. 



EDINBURGH : 

Printed at the Request of the Committee, 

AND 

PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM WHYTE AND CO. 

13, GEORGE STREET ; 
AND SOLD BY ALL THE BOOKSELLERS, 



M-DCCCXXX. 



NOTICE. 

In writing out the following Speech, the object has rather been to 
do justice to the argument, than to give an exact and literal report 
of what Dr. Thomson delivered. Some parts accordingly are some- 
what abridged, and others are considerably enlarged. Still, however, 
those who were present at the Meeting will recognise in these pages 
the statements, and reasonings, and in a great measure the very lan- 
guage, to which they listened on that occasion. 

The Speech is published with the view of vindicating the Com- 
mittee of the Edinburgh Anti-Slavery Society for the step which 
they have taken — of laying before the public, an outline at least of 
what may be advanced in support of the immediate abolition of 
Slavery — and of thus advancing the cause of truth, justice, and charity. 

It may be proper to add, that the publication has taken place at 
the request, and under the sanction of the Committee. 



ERRATA. 

Page 12, line 3 from bottom, for "inversion," read. " invasion" 

16, — — 5 from bottom, for "in," read " or" 

23, 11 from hottom,for "resolution," read, "resolutions" 

32, 8 from top, for " as," read " or" 



SPEECH 

DELIVERED AT THE MEETING 

OF THE 

EDINBURGH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



Mr. Chairman — Ladies and Gentlemen — I beg leave to submit 
to this meeting a Petition which has been prepared by the Committee of 
the Edinburgh Anti-SlaverySociety, with the view of its being laid before 
both Houses of Parliament, founded on the resolutions just now agreed 
to, for the purpose of asking the Legislature to grant what we consider 
to be absolutely necessary in the present circumstances of the slavery 
question ; and I begin with reading the petition, as it may be the means 
of removing certain misconceptions which have been entertained, and 
counteracting certain misrepresentations which have been industriously 
circulated, respecting the principles that we maintain, and the object 
that we pursue. (Here Dr. Thomson read the petition, which, after al- 
luding to what was done in 1823, to the subsequent ineffectual attempts 
at arrangement, and to the grounds on which slavery is to be condemned, 
concludes with words of the following import). 

" That your petitioners therefore do approach your most Honourable House, not 
only with a deep feeling of compassion for 800,000 oppressed and suffering slaves; 
but under the heavier pressure of a conscience burdened with the guilt of participat- 
ing in the iniquitous oppression ; and with all the energy with which a petitioning 
people can respectfully urge a representative legislature, do implore your most Ho- 
nourable House in its wisdom to adopt effectual measures for the immediate and 
total abolition of Slavery, throughout the Colonies of the Empire. 

" And that, at the same time, your petitioners, equally anxious for the safety and 
improvement of the black population, and for the securing to the white inhabitants 
the uninjured and peaceful enjoyment of their legitimate possessions, do also petition 
your most Honourable House, contemporaneously with the decree for the abolition 
of slavery, to make such provisional enactments as shall be necessary or expedient, 
for protecting the white population, if their safety shall appear to be endangered ; 
for promoting the temporal welfare and moral improvement of the negroes ; and, in 
general, for securing the interests of all parties, who may be affected by the great 
measure of emancipation." 

I was anxious that the meeting should hear, in the outset, the con- 
cluding part of the petition, because it goes to contradict the misappre- 

B 



2 

hensions and misrepresentations I have alluded to. When, in virtue of 
my privilege, as a member of the Society, I took the liberty of moving 
an amendment upon the resolutions proposed at the former meeting, I said 
that I desiderated the word " immediate" in these resolutions ; but it 
must be in the recollection of every man, who was present on that occa- 
sion, that I qualified my declaration by an expression of those very senti- 
ments which are contained in the conclusion of the petition you have now 
heard read. I am the more anxious that this should be known, because 
not only the enemies of the abolition of slavery have laid hold of that 
single word, and severed it most unjustly from its proper accompaniments, 
but even those who agree with us as to the necessity of abolition, and 
only differ from us as to the period at which it should be effected, have 
chosen, in their newspaper advertisement, to change the word immediate 
into instant, evidently for the purpose of rendering our measure more 
obnoxious, and taken good care to cut away from it the explanations by 
which it was qualified. And this very day, they have been circulating 
among you, as you entered the room, a hand-bill with the obvious design 
of persuading you, by a perverted application of the term practicable, to 
regard our views as utterly chimerical and absurd — a circumstance the 
more to be wondered at, that they yesterday solicited us to grant them 
a portion of our funds to assist them in getting forward their petition 
for gradual emancipation ; and that if they were not greatly encouraged, 
thev were not at least absolutely or finally refused. 

At the former meeting, many persons were alarmed, or pretended to 
be alarmed, at the word " immediate," and spread abroad the report that, 
according to our proposal, the legislature should pass resolutions, or the 
government should issue an order, declaring that the slaves are all forth- 
with free. Such an idea, I will venture to say, never entered into the 
mind of a human being connected with this Society. The word imme- 
diate may no doubt be considered as a strong word ; but you will ob- 
serve that it is used as contrasted with the word gradual. And were I to 
criticise the term gradual as certain opponents have treated the term 
immediate, I could easily, by the help of a little quibbling, bring you to 
the conclusion, that as hitherto employed it means that the abolition is 
never to take place, and that, by putting it into their petition, they are 
to be understood as deprecating rather than asking the emancipation of 
the slaves. " Immediate," they argue, " evanishes as soon as you utter 
it ; it is gone before your petition reaches parliament." How absurd ! 
If I should say to my servant while engaged in work, " You must go to 
the south side of the town with a message for me immediately," is it in- 
deed implied in the order I have given him, that he could not fulfil it, 
unless he set off without his hat, without his coat, without his shoes, 
without those habiliments which are requisite for his appearing de- 
cently in the streets of Edinburgh, and executing the task that I had 
assigned him ? (Hear, hear, and laugh.) The meaning of the word 
as used by us is perfectly clear, and cannot be misapprehended by any 
one : it is not to be made a subject of metaphysical animadversion : it is 
to be considered and understood under the direction of common sense, 
and especially as modified and expounded by those statements with 
which it is associated both in our resolutions and in the petition ; and 



viewed in that light, immediate abolition is not merely an intelligible 
phrase, but one that does not warrant a particle of the alarm which 
some have affected to take at it, and is not liable to any one of those ob- 
jections which some have been pleased to make to it. 

Sir, we found our petition for immediate abolition on those great 
principles which we all agree in maintaining to be the only right rule of 
human and Christian conduct, and which you have heard so well stated 
by my reverend friend Mr. Buchanan. We hold that man cannot have 
property in man. (Cheers.) No man is entitled to make himself the slave 
of another. Still less is he entitled to make a slave of his fellow-creature. 
That he may be empowered to purchase his fellow-creature, to keep 
him as his property, or to treat him as a slave, he must have authority 
from God, who is the great sovereign of the world, who may do as he 
will with his own, who may punish his subjects in the manner that is 
agreeable to himself, and who, we are assured, as judge of all the 
earth, will do that which is right. But he who, without divine autho- 
rity — and surely the West India slave-holders will not have the courage 
to plead such a sanction — claims a right of property in human beings, 
claims that which violates all that, is sacred and true. That man can- 
not hold property in man is a proposition which is self-evident : it does 
not bear an argument : and he who maintains it, must be prepared to 
admit, that if the white man can hold property in the black man, the 
black man can hold property in the white man, — a doctrine which, as 
soon as it is carried into operation, breaks up the whole frame of society, 
and reduces all things into absolute anarchy and confusion.* (Cheers.) 
Slavery is hostile to the original and essential rights of our common hu- 
manity — contrary to the inflexible and paramount demands of moral 
justice — at eternal variance with the spirit and maxims of revealed re- 
ligion — inimical to all that is merciful in the heart, and holy in the con- 
duct — and on these accounts, necessarily exposed and subject to the 
curse of Almighty God. (Great applause.) And if this be a correct 
description of the demerit of slavery, and if we engage in a system pos- 
sessing such characteristics, we are sinning in the sight of our Maker, 
and there lies upon us an awful and overwhelming responsibility. The 
guilt does not consist merely in making men slaves ; it consists as much 
in keeping them slaves. The present slave-holders, and their advocates 
in this country, cannot escape by setting up such a distinction. It 
avails them nothing. For if it be unlawful, iniquitous, and unchristian, 
to steal a man and force him into bondage, it must be equally unlawful, 
iniquitous, and unchristian, to retain him in that state, whether he has 
been purchased, or received as a gift, or got by inheritance, or obtained 
in any other way whatever. The L crime is the same in both cases. 



* An illustration of this may be found in the treatment of white people — of British 
Christians, by the Algerines. Why was there an armament sent out, and a war prose- 
cuted to rescue the former from the bondage they were kept in by the latter? Is moral 
justice different in one part of the world from what it is in another? Is it indeed 
maintained that might is right, and that right is might ? Is this the principle which 
God has established in the world ? And is it to be avowed by our statesmen and our 
moralists, that the strong may, at any time and in any place, make slaves of the weak ? 



4 

The unfortunate victim of cupidity is deprived of that personal freedom 
which is his birthright : it is taken from him, or it is withheld from 
him — no matter which : and he thereby suffers a wrong which is de- 
nounced by the law of nature and by the law of revelation, and which 
cannot be persevered in by us, or receive countenance from us, without 
involving us in moral guilt. {Hear, hear.) 

Such, Sir, are the principles which we maintain on this great ques- 
tion. And when we adopt these principles as the rule of our judgment, 
and the guide of our conduct, you must admit that we take up our posi- 
tion upon ground which is immoveable. We stand upon a foundation 
which is composed of sound and durable materials, which is linked by 
indissoluble ties to the throne of the eternal God, and which, assail it 
as our enemies may, can never be overthrown. {Long continued cheers.) 
What then are we to do as moral and religious and accountable beings ? 
Are we to view the subject of emancipation as a mere matter of state 
policy, or financial arrangement ? Are we to have our attention occu- 
pied and engrossed with minute inquiries into what may be its profit 
and its loss, its influence on the revenue, or its effects on commerce and 
trade ? Are we to wait till we hear and discuss and decide upon all the 
allegations that may be made, and all the sophistry that may be urged, 
by those who are more immediately concerned in upholding slavery, and 
evidently determined that it shall not cease ? No, Sir: it is ascertained 
without reference to any of these circumstances — it is dictated by un- 
changeable truth and rectitude, and is therefore put beyond the reach of 
controversy, that slavery is a crime ; that to engage or to persist in it is 
to contract guilt in the sight of heaven ; and, consequently, that being 
aware of this, we are bound to make no delay in hastening out of the 
transgression, and putting an end to it, wherever it has obtained a footing 
in our dominions. To say that we will come out of the sin by degrees — 
that we will only forsake it slowly, and step by step — that we will 
pause and hesitate and look well about us before we consent to abandon 
its gains and its pleasures— that we will allow another age to pass by 
ere we throw off the load of iniquity that is lying so heavy upon us, 
lest certain secularities should be injuriously affected — and that we will 
postpone the duty of " doing justly and loving mercy," till we have re- 
moved every petty difficulty out of the way, and got all the conflicting 
interests that are involved in the measure reconciled and satisfied ; — 
to say this, is to trample on the demands of moral obligation, and to dis- 
regard the voice which speaks to us from heaven. The path of duty is 
plain before us ; and we have nothing to do but to enter it at once, and 
to walk in it without turning to the right hand or to the left. Our 
concern is not with the result that may follow our obedience to the di- 
vine will. Our great and primary concern is to obey that will. God 
reigns over his universe in the exercise of infinite perfection : he com- 
mands us to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke ; and 
submitting, without procrastination, and Without any attempts at com- 
promise, to that command, we may be assured that he will take care of 
all the effects that can be produced by compliance with his authority, 
and give demonstration to the truth that obedience to his behests is 
our grand and only security for a prosperous lot. 



We are by no means indifferent to tlie expediency of the case. On 
the contrary, we think ourselves prepared to prove, by fair reasoning 
and by ascertained fact, that the expediency of the thing is all on our 
side ; that immediate abolition is the only secure and proper way of at- 
taining the object which we all profess to have in view ; that to defer 
the measure to a distant period, and to admit the propriety of getting at 
it by a course of mitigation, is the surest mode of frustrating every hope 
we might otherwise entertain, and giving over the slaves to intermina- 
ble bondage. To this topic I shall by and by take the liberty of di- 
recting your attention. But, in the mean time, I cannot desist from 
pressing it upon the meeting, that the principles on which we plead for 
abolition at all, go directly and irresistibly to the duty and necessity of 
immediate abolition. We cannot keep a human being in the condition 
of a slave unless we can show a warrant from God for doing so, or im- 
piously assume the prerogative of God, and unjustly encroach on the 
undeniable rights of our brother. We can show no such warrant ; and 
nothing therefore remains for us but to abandon the impiety and injus- 
tice which we have been perpetrating, by instantly setting the bondsman 
free. The very proposal to continue in the practice of this sinful domi- 
nation, till we have settled all the inferior questions which have been 
mixed up with it, and adjusted all the pros and cons of a worldly expe- 
diency which have been brought into the discussion of it, casts a doubt 
on the ultimate and effectual abatement of what we profess so much to 
abhor. Our postponement of the moral obligation indicates such com- 
parative indifference to what should be the paramount motive in a Chris- 
tian's mind, that there is little chance of our pressing forward to the 
ultimate abolition, with that energy of purpose, and resoluteness of ex- 
ertion, which its accomplishment will require. And, descending from 
the elevation on which religion has placed us, and where we can fight 
the battles of truth and equity and mercy with advantage, we come down 
to the level on which our adversaries choose to combat, because they can 
there give us misrepresentation for fact, sophistry for argument, and 
promise for performance ; and in this way we not only desert the post to 
which duty binds us, but put the whole cause in jeopardy, and leave it 
very much at the mercy of those men who will consent to gradual abo- 
lition, or to the measures which are implied in it, merely because they 
can thereby and without much difficulty defeat the scheme of final and 
total emancipation. 

Keeping by these views, we have no occasion to go into the details of 
the slave system, or to prove the evil of it by special instances of cruel- 
ty and oppression. We are under no embarrassment from having to 
charge individuals with acts of inhumanity, or to bring forward such a 
number of facts as may give a practical demonstration of the infelicity 
and misery of that state which we wish to abolish. Many individuals 
among the slave-holders may be distinguished by their consideration 
and kindness towards the unfortunate beings who are subjected to their 
authority. I have no doubt many of them are entitled to that praise, — 
and let it be supposed that all of them endeavour to make their slaves 
as comfortable and happy as slaves can be. At any rate I am not one 
of those who would pass even upon that class of men an unqualified and 



.sweeping sentence of condemnation. I am willing to allow that, as to 
the instances of atrocity which have been adduced, there has been some- 
times unintentional mistake, and sometimes wilful exaggeration,* and 
that, after picturing certain scenes of severe exaction and tyrannical 
punishment, it is not fair to assert that these are only specimens of what 
is happening every day and every hour in every corner of every estate. 
I can dispense with such statements altogether : and I return to the 
grand principle that man cannot have property in man. (Cheers.} To 
make or to keep him a slave is to violate that charter of liberty 
which God has given to every human being whom he has made. Jus- 
tice and humanity equally reclaim against such a robbery of inherent 
right. And I need nothing more to satisfy me that the slave must be 
miserable, because on the inherent right which he possesses must be 
based all that is great in character or happy in condition, — deprive him 
of the one and he necessarily loses the other. If any thing else be re- 
quisite to give me a full impression of the wretchedness of the slave, 
it is to be found in this, that his master is invested with absolute power 
over him as if he were a mere inferior animal ; and knowing, as we do, 
from all our experience of human nature, that absolute power must 
be abused where it is held and exercised for purposes of aggrandize- 
ment, and where those who are subject to it are continually exposed to 
its caprices and its resentments, we cannot doubt that the portion of 
the slave, as a sensitive, intellectual, and moral being, must, in ten 
thousand instances, be that of bitter suffering and intolerable debase- 
ment. This I hold to be an essential characteristic of slavery ; I could 
not doubt of its tendency and effects being what I have now described, 
though there were not a single instance of the fact upon record. And, 
therefore, as it involves in it impious usurpation, — radical injustice, — 
boundless oppression and inhumanity, — as these horrid attributes are 
inseparable from its very existence, how can we, who are a Christian 
people, forbear calling upon our Christian Legislature, to proceed with- 
out compromise or reserve to its immediate, its complete, its perpetual 
extinction ? 

But, Sir, though the production of particular cases is not at all indis- 
pensable to my argument for immediate emancipation, it may be useful 
for the purpose of giving a more distinct and forcible demonstration of 
the malignant nature of the slave system ; and, therefore, I shall bring 
before you, — not a lengthened detail of atrocities, though that might 
be easily done, but only a selection, from which may be seen, at once, 
the miserable condition of the slaves themselves, and the light in which 
they are regarded by those who are expected to co-operate with us in 
promoting their gradual improvement, and thus preparing them for final 
disenthralment. 

In a Jamaica newspaper, an advertisement appeared of a female slave 
having run away from the estate of an unmarried lady. A reward was 
offered for her apprehension. And there was added as a hint for discov- 

* From every charge of this kind, there must be exempted the " Anti-Slavery lie- 
porter," — a publication distinguished by the cautious accuracy of its statements, as well 
as by the soundness of its principles, and the conclusiveness of its reasonings. 



ering her, the following clause : '< It is strongly suspected that the said 
sJave is harboured by her husband, William Smith." Observe, that by 
a person in the shape of a woman, and in the station of a landed pro- 
prietor, it is accounted and proclaimed as a crime that the female slave 
should seek for shelter under the roof of her husband, and that he 
should afford protection to his toil-worn and suffering wife ! (Hear, 
hear.} What must be the state of society where such an advertisement 
could appear, and where such a sentiment could be avowed?* 

To give you some faint conception of what the prevailing ideas 
of criminal justice are when the slave and the master are both concern- 
ed, let me quote the following example. In Jamaica, the premises of a 
Mr. Edie were burglariously entered by two thieves. He desired his slave 
Thomas to scare them away with his loaded gun. The slave, obliged to 
obey his master's orders, took his gun, fired it — in all likelihood at random, 
it being very dark — and unhappily shot one of the men. For this he was 
tried. On the evidence of Mr. Edie he was convicted of manslaughter, 
and his sentence was, that he should be doomed to hard labour in the 
workhouse for twelve months, and flogged with thirty-nine lashes at 
going in, and with thirty-nine at coming out ! One would have thought that 
the master alone was the guilty person, because the slave had no alterna- 
tive but that of doing what he was commanded, or submitting to the ordi- 
nary penalty of the cart- whip. And the court that tried the case did con* 
sider the owner as much to blame in directing a slave to use a gun in 
such circumstances ; but he was not brought to trial ; and they only 
endeavoured to make him suffer by the sentence pronounced upon the 
slave ! The guilty master was indeed punished, but his punishment 
consisted in the subjection of the innocent slave to a year's hard labour 
in the workhouse, and to twice thirty-nine stripes with the horrible la- 
cerating scourge ! Can any thing be conceived to exceed this as a savage 
perversion of every rule of justice ? What can be looked for in the way 
of amelioration in a system which leads criminal judges to punish the 
master by torturing his slave ? And is there any remedy for such a 
state of things but the decisive step of breaking asunder that unholy 
relationship which makes the one party a mere tool, not only for adding 
to the gains, but for enduring the stripes that should have followed the 
guilt, of the other ? (Hear, hear.) 

The next instance I quote illustrates the notions of arbitrary and 
of lenient punishment which obtain in the slave system. In 1826 the 
Legislature of Jamaica passed the following enactment : 

" § 37. And in order to restrain arbitrary punvhments, be it further enacted, that 
no slave, on any plantation or settlement, or in any of the workhouses or gaols in this 
island, shall receive any more than ten lathes at one time and for one offence, unless the 
owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, or overseer, of such plantation or 
settlement, having such slave in his care, or keeper of such workhouse, or keeper of such 

* How different in this point was the Jewish law, which yet is referred to as a justi- 
fication of colonial slavery ! " Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which 
is escaped from his master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in 
that place which he shall choose, in one of thy gates, where it likcih hitn best ; thou 
■ shalt not oppress him." — Dt-at. xxiii. 15, !6. 



8 

gaol shall be present ; and that no such owner, attorney, guardian, executor, adminis- 
trator, or overseer, workhouse-keeper, or gaol-keeper, shall, on any account, punish a 
slave with more than thirty-nine lashes at one time and for one offence, nor inflict, ( nor 
suffer to be inflicted, such last-mentioned punishment, nor any other number of lashes 
on the same day, nor until the delinquent has recovered from the effect of any former 
punishment, under a penalty not less than ten pounds, nor more than twenty pounds, 
for every offence," &c 

Now, observe, Sir, that this enactment is passed in 1826 professedly 
to restrain arbitrary 'punishments — that it is no better than what was 
enacted in 1816", and even so far back as 1788 — that it gives liberty to 
the driver to inflict at his own discretion ten lashes with the cart-whip 
on any of the negroes whom he superintends, man, woman, or child — 
that the power of inflicting thirty-nine lashes with the same dreadful in- 
strument on any negro of either sex, and of any age, may be exercised by 
the owner, or the attorney, or the guardian, or the executor, or the admi?iis- 
trator, or the overseer, or the workhouse-keeper, or the gaol-keeper — that all 
this may be done by any one of these persons without any trial, without 
the order of any magistrate, without any offence committed, and with- 
out any legal responsibility on the part of the individuals to whom such 
a discretion is entrusted. And this enactment is said to be for the pur- 
pose of " restraining arbitrary punishments" — it is not only recent, but 
held out as a step in the progress of mitigation and improvement — and 
it is brought forward by the West India Committee as a proof of the 
humanity of the Colonial Legislatures in general, and of the Jamaica 
Legislature in particular ! It requires no comment of mine to show 
this meeting that these tender mercies of the Colonial Legislatures are 
cruel — that such things could not be perpetrated under the form of 
legislative enactment, or appealed to as evidence of liberality and kind- 
ness, were it not that slavery is destructive of all just and kindly feel- 
ing towards those who are its victims — and that there is for them, even 
in the laws which are pretended to have their welfare in view, no se- 
curity and no comfort whatsoever. 

There is nothing, perhaps, which gives a more correct and significant 
representation of the inherent vice of the system, than the ideas enter- 
tained in the West Indies of indulgence or liberality to the slaves. I 
find that, in a statement of the proceedings of the Incorporated Society 
for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts with respect to the 
Codrington estates in the island of Barbadoes belonging to that Society, 
it is mentioned as its vindication from the charge of cruelty and severity, 
that, while the slaves are working in the fields under a vertical sun, 
they are supplied with draughts of water ! — that mothers having three 
children are to have Saturday afternoon for taking care of them — a pri- 
vilege boasted of as being given in 1829, though the whole of Saturday 
was given by an order of the Society to the negroes generally, more than 
a century before — so wonderful has been the progress of humanity ! — and 
that when a mother has eight children alive — which is but a very rare 
occurrence — she is permitted to have the whole of Thursday to look after 
that numerous charge ! — If such be held forth as admirable examples of 
the generosity which is extended to the poor slaves, surely it is a fair 
inference that their situation is one of inconceivable hardship and suffer- 

2 



9 

ing, and that they are regarded as destitute of all title to ordinary- 
consideration and equitable treatment. 

The only other fact I shall specify is the horrible case of the Mosses, 
of which many of you have heard, and which I shall relate in the words 
of Mr. Huskisson, who was one of the Secretaries of State at the time, 
and who had occasion to write a despatch upon the very subject, in con* 
sequence of a strange application from Governor Grant for a modifica- 
tion of punishment. 

** Those facts of the case," says Mr. H., " which are proved beyond 
dispute, appear to be as follows : 

Kate was a domestic slave, and is stated to have been guilty of theft ; she is also 
accused of disobedience, in refusing to mend her clothes and do her work, and this was 
the more immediate cause of her punishment. On the 22d of July 1826, she was con- 
fined in the stocks, and she was not released till the 8th of August following, being a 
period of seventeen days. The stocks were so constructed, that she could not sit up and 
lie down at pleasure, and she remained in them night and day. During this period she 
was flogged repeatedly, one of the overseers thinks about six times, and red pepper was 
rubbed upon her eyes to prevent her sleeping. Tasks were given her which, in the 
opinion of the same overseer, she was incapable of performing ; sometimes because they 
were beyond her powers, at other times because she could not see to do them on account 
of the pepper having been rubbed on her eyes : and she was flogged for failing to accom- 
plish these tasks. A violent distemper had been prevalent on the plantation during the 
summer. It is in evidence, that on one of the days of Kate's confinement she com- 
plained of fever, and that one of the floggings which she received was the day after she 
had made this complaint. When she was taken out of the stocks she appeared to be 
cramped, and was then again flogged. The very day of her release she was sent to 
field labour, (though heretofore a house servant), and on the evening of the third day 
ensuing, was brought before her owners as being ill and refusing to work, and she then 
again complained of having had fever. They were of opinion that she had none then, 
but gave directions to the driver if she should be ill to bring her to them for medicines 
in the morning. The driver took her to the negro-house, and again flogged her ; though, 
this time, apparently, without orders from her owners to do so. In the morning, at seven 
o'clock, she was taken to work in the field, where she died at noon." 

Mr. and Mrs. Moss, who had committed these cruelties, the recital of 
which makes one's blood run cold, had abill of indictment preferred against 
them for murder, by the Attorney General. This bill was returned " not 
found" by the grand jury, though the evidence is of such a nature that no 
jury whatever in this country would have hesitated to bring in a verdict of 
guilty upon it. But the Attorney General prepared two other bills for 
misdemeanors — misdemeanors ! — one against Mr. Moss, and the other 
against Mr. Moss and his wife. These being found, the case was laid before 
a petit jury, and after a trial which lasted for sixteen hours, a verdict of 
guilty was found upon both indictments. And the court sentenced Mr. 
and Mrs. Moss to imprisonment in the common jail of Nassau, for five 
calendar months, and Mr. Moss to the payment of a fine of L.300, over 
and besides the costs of the prosecution. Every man must see that this 
punishment came far short of what was due to such aggravated and 
monstrous cruelty. Scarcely any punishment, indeed, that could have 
been inflicted, was adequate to the enormity of the offence. And had 
a slave been convicted of one-tenth part of the guilt, the poor wretch 
would have been torn to pieces with the cart- whip, or consigned to the 
gallows without ceremony. But in that miserable country, the punish- 

c 



10 

ment was accounted a great deal too severe. The two culprits were 
held in the highest esteem hy the most respectable inhabitants of the 
town and colony. These applied to the governor. General Grant, for a 
remission of the sentence. They testified to the excellence of the Mos- 
ses, and particularly to their humane conduct towards their slaves. 
They visited them while in the gaol, suffering a short imprisonment for 
the unheard of barbarity they had practised on a poor helpless female 
negro. And when these persons of worth and probity at length were 
liberated in course of law, there was a feast and a jubilee got up on the 
occasion, at which the inhabitants of the Bahamas celebrated their release, 
as if they had been martyrs for the cause of righteousness and mercy ! 
{Hear, hear, hear.) 

You have here, Sir, a very instructive specimen of what is considered 
a most respectable and humane character among the white inhabitants 
of the Bahamas. And if this be the case, I may well ask Avhat will be 
accounted misconduct and cruelty in that quarter. Had the treatment 
of the poor female slave by her master and mistress stood alone, we 
might have considered it as an instance of hardheartedness on the part of 
the Mosses, and nothing more. But you will observe, from the manner in 
which it was spoken of, and from the attention paid to the perpetrators 
of it, that it was just an emanation from the slave system, and character- 
istic of it as a system of incurable evil, fertile in heartless oppression, 
and crime, and misery. 

I might have mentioned other cases, all marked with the same fea- 
tures, and leading to the same conclusion.* But 1 shall merely add 
the view given of the slave by Mr. Dwarris, to satisfy you, that nothing 
efficient for putting an end to slavery, or for materially lessening its 
horrors, can be expected short of an act of the legislature, restoring to 
the slaves their freedom, and placing them, in this respect, on an 
equality with their white masters, Mr. Dwarris is the only surviving 
member of a commission appointed to inquire into and report con- 
cerning the civil and criminal justice of the West Indies- In his report 
he uses the following language : — 

* One of the most shocking fruits of the system may be found in the licentiousness 
of the white masters, and the consequences which immediately result from it. These 
men have the young females so much under their control and influence, and have so 
little restraint on their passions, that illicit intercourse with them is notoriously preva- 
lent. This is bad enough ; but the mischief assumes a most revolting form, when it is 
recollected that the children thus procreated are necessarily slaves — that the horrid spec- 
tacle is exhibited of a father seeing his own offspring driven to their labour hi the field 
like cattle, and like cattle bought and sold in the market — the price, peradventure, finding 
its way into his own pocket ! To speak of such a thing before a promiscuous audience 
was impossible. But it should sink deep into the heart of every one who feels averse to 
immediate emancipation. As matters must continue to be, so long as slavery is tole- 
rated, such dismal facts as the one now noticed are unavoidable. No regulation 
can prevent them, so long as the slave is property. And ought that system which ad- 
mits of the gross abomination now specified, to be allowed by a Christian people to 
continue one moment longer ? Perish the thought ! 

More shocking instances even than this might be quoted. What can the reader think 
of an owner deliberately violating the person of a female slave under age, and of his 
being acquitted, when tried for the crime, on the ground that the victim of his brutal lust 
was— his property 9i 



u 

" The poor slave, if left to himself, is generally contented and happy. 
Possessing a spot to which he is commonly attached, looking to his mas- 
ter for support in health, care in sickness, and advice and help in dis- 
tress and difficulty, the improvident negro, far from pining in misery, 
dances and sleeps, trifles and dreams away life, thoughtless, careless, 
and happily ignorant of his own unprotected condition, and of the im- 
potent fury of the laws. A little more time, and a little less work form 
the narrow boundary of the wants and wishes of the negro." 

Nothing, I. confess, Sir, in the whole history of this melancholy sub- 
ject, is so deeply affecting and so awfully instructive, as the passage I 
have now read to you from Mr. Dwarris' report. Here we have in a 
report which speaks the sentiments of the great body of the West India 
oppressors, — here we have the slave represented as on a level with the 
brutes that perish. He is not in a single particular regarded as a hu- 
man being. It is not once supposed that he has intellectual faculties 
and moral affections, — that he is responsible to the God that made him 
— that he has a soul for which, as for ours, the Saviour died, and which, 
like ours, is destined for immortality. Such a supposition is not even 
glanced at. He is spoken of as a mere animal, which if left alone, if 
unheeded by those who are desirous to exalt him to his proper place in 
the scale of being, and to rescue him from all that is most miserable in 
this miserable world, will " dance and sleep, and trifle and dream away 
life !" Sir, I need not tell the meeting I address, that this is not the ori- 
ginal nature of the negro more than it is ours. If it be truly descriptive 
of him as he is found in the colonies, then let us remember that it is 
slavery which has made him so, — that it is the native effect of slavery, 
and the almost acknowledged interest of his owners to keep him down 
to that degradation, — and that this affords us the most commanding 
reason of all for going to the government and to the legislature, and 
saying to them, that in measures of mere amelioration there is no hope 
for the slave, and that he must be emancipated immediately. {Loud 
cheers.} 

But, Sir, I must contradict Mr. Dwarris in one main part of his 
statement. 1 cannot admit " that the slave is thoughtless, careless, and 
happily ignorant of his own unprotected condition, and of the impotent 
fury of the laws." The contrary is the fact. He cannot be ignorant of 
the existence and severity of the cart-whip, — he cannot be ignorant of 
the laws, of whose partiality to the master that works and punishes him 
at his pleasure he has daily and hourly experience, — he cannot be ig- 
norant of the danger and hopelessness of his making any complaint 
against the evil usage to which he is subjected — and especially, he is 
not ignorant of the miseries of bondage, and, therefore, not " thought- 
less," or " careless," about regaining the liberty of which he has been 
deprived. I know. Sir, it has been said over and over by the advocates 
of slavery, that the slave does not care for liberty, and is well content- 
ed without it. But while I would contradict such an assertion on the 
broad ground of its belying the first principles of human nature, I beg- 
to contradict it on an authority which the slave-holders must not ques- 
tion or deny, because it is their own. When the white people in Ja- 
maica were attacked and endangered by the Maroons, they called in the 



12 

aid of their slaves, and to stimulate the exertions of these " thoughtless, 
careless, ignorant" creatures, they offered them a reward ; and what was 
the reward think you? Will it be believed that they offered them their 
liberty? (Cheers), that very liberty which we are endeavouring to procure 
for them, but which the planters gravely tell us the slaves neither desire 
nor value ! And the poor slaves, animated by the prospect of the pro- 
mised manumission, not only gave their exertions by day and their 
watchings by night in the perilous contest, but hazarded their lives and 
shed their blood for the protection of their masters {Hear, hear). 

We are told that the system of slavery should be mitigated, and that 
a course of amendment should be pursued with a view to its final aboli- 
tion. It appears to me, Sir, to be as clear as sunshine that no effectual 
mitigation of slavery is ever to be expected, — that the nature and cir- 
cumstances of the case forbid such an expectation,— and that whatever 
may be accomplished in this way will prove a complete delusion ;— it will 
only deceive the abolitionists, and ruin their cause. The men through 
whose instrumentality, or assistance at least, we can carry on a plan of 
amelioration with any success, even supposing that our authorities at 
home should interfere, are the planters themselves and the white people 
on the spot. Now, what have they done in reality during all the time 
that they were left to their own legislation and their own will ? The 
subject has been much discussed, — the practical evils of the system have 
been a thousand times exposed to them in the most convincing and elo- 
quent terms, — they had the sufferings of the slaves before their eyes, ap- 
pealing to their hearts for redress, — and censure, and remonstrance, and 
argument have been employed to arouse them to feelings of pity and to 
plans of reform. And yet every one acquainted with the history of colonial 
slavery must be satisfied that no attempts worth speaking of were ever 
made, and that the system has continued in all its despotism, and in all its 
vileness. Nay, but Parliament has interfered ; and, seven years ago, 
our Government sent out Orders in Council to enforce the doing of what 
long experience showed there was no willingness to do. And what has 
been the consequence, — what effect has been produced ? Why, Sir, 
one reason of the meetings that are now taking place throughout the 
country having been called is, the notorious undeniable fact that the Or- 
ders in Council have been disobeyed and contemned. The chartered 
colonies have done absolutely nothing, — but laughed at our interference, 
and proclaimed defiance. The crown colonies have done next to no- 
thing. In every essential point they have refused to make any change ; 
and when you examine the particulars in which they have consented, as 
it were, to do what was suggested or prescribed to them, you find that 
these amendments were the merest evasions, and that sometimes, under 
the appearance of improving, they had the real effect of making things 
worse. There was the case of compulsory manumission, which may be 
allowed to be a verv important measure, — as to that they were quite 
refractory. They would not hear of it. The Barbadoes legislators 
hold the following language respecting it : " Compulsory manumission 
is a direct inversion of the right of property, absolutely destructive of 
that right, by investing slaves with the power, at their own will, and 
against the will of their masters, of purchasing their freedom. If this 



13 

were once admitted, there would be an end to all security to mortgagees 
and others ; any attempt at compensation would only prove delusive." 
" Unless, therefore, it is intended to ruin the colonies, and to convert 
every plantation into a poor-house, the plan of compulsory manumission 
must be abandoned." I object, as well as the colonial legislature, to the 
doctrine of compulsory manumission ; though on very different grounds. 
I hold it to be quite imcompetent for us, on any sound principle, to 
hedge in a slave to this mode of emancipating himself. You have al- 
ready done him the wrong of making him a slave : he has an inalienable 
title to his freedom at this very moment ; you have power to restore him 
to that freedom by your own deed ; and if expense attend the transac- 
tion, the burden of that expense should lie upon you : and yet you 
would make the slave himself pay it all, — in the additional toils he must 
undergo, — and by his giving up the fruits and earnings of these toils 
to his thankless oppressive master. I could say much in condemnation 
of this plan. I only notice it thus, however, to express my abhorrence 
of, — to lift my protest against, the idea of the British Legislature, with 
its great power, and its high character, saying to the poor, helpless, unpro- 
tected slave, — all in kindness to the tyrant who unrighteously possesses 
him, — " You may be free, but your freedom must be wrought out by your 
paying a price for it I" But, Sir, I have adduced the case of manumission 
as affording a specimen of the temper with which the West India legis- 
lators and planters receive those orders which this country sends out, to 
mitigate the evils of slavery, with a view to its ultimate suppression, 
even when these orders are, one would think, most considerately heed- 
ful of their interests. They are against permitting the slave to labour 
for his own deliverance ; and if 1 should say to them, " there is the 
value of the slave in sterling money — let him go," they will not accept 
of it and give him his freedom. This is their general doctrine, and there 
is no lack of instances in which they have actually refused manumission 
even on the terms I have mentioned. Here, Sir, is the secret of their 
resistance. Your plans of amelioration are an invasion of their rights of 
property. I beg the meeting to mark this, and to carry it along with 
them through the whole discussion. The slaves, they say, are their pro- 
perty. Once admit this — and so long as slavery is permitted to exist 
under the sanction of Parliament, you do admit it, — once admit this, 
and all your arguments for interference are vain, and all your plans for 
amelioration are fruitless. The whole question may be said to hang 
upon this point. If the slaves are not property, then slavery is at an end. 
The slave-holders see this most clearly ; they see that while you allow these 
slaves to be their property, you act inconsistently and oppressively in 
intermeddling, as you propose to do, with what is theirs as much as any 
other of their goods and chattels : you must proceed, therefore, in your 
measures for amelioration, as you call it, with " hesitating steps and slow/* 
and there is nothing you can do for restraining punishment, for regulating 
labour, for enforcing manumission, for introducing education and Chris^ 
tianity, which will not be met with the remonstrance, undeniably just 
by your own concessions, that you are encroaching on the sacred rights 
of property,— the slave-holders see all this, and they can employ it to 
paralyse and defeat all your efforts to get at emancipation, and to pre- 



pare for it. It is on this account, that 1 wish it settled in your minds, 
as a fixed and immutable principle, that there is and can be no property 
of man in man. Adopt this principle, and give it that ascendency over 
your minds to which it is entitled ; — and slavery is swept away. 

I do not deny, Sir, notwithstanding what I have now said, that the 
evils of practical slavery may be lessened. By parliamentary enact- 
ments, by colonial arrangements, by appeals to the judgment and feel- 
ings of planters, and by various other means, a certain degree of meli- 
oration may be secured. But I say, in the first place, that, with all 
that you can accomplish, or reasonably expect, of mitigation, you can- 
not alter the nature of slavery itself. With every improvement you 
have superinduced upon it, you have not made it less debasing, less 
cruel, less destructive in its essential character. The black man is still 
the property of the white man. And that one circumstance not only 
implies in it the transgression of inalienable right and everlasting jus- 
tice, but is the fruitful and necessary source of numberless mischiefs, 
the very thought of which harrows up the soul, and the infliction of 
which no superintendence of any government can either prevent or con- 
trol. Mitigate and keep down the evil as much as you can, still it is 
there in all its native virulence, and still it will do its malignant work 
in spite of you. The improvements you have made are merely super- 
ficial. You have not reached the seat and vital spring of the mischief. 
You have only concealed in some measure, and for a time, its inherent 
enormity. Its essence remains unchanged and untouched, and is ready 
to unfold itself whenever a convenient season arrives, notwithstanding- 
all your precaution, and all your vigilance, in those manifold acts of in- 
justice and inhumanity, which are its genuine and its invariable fruits. 
You may white-wash the sepulchre, — you may put upon it every adorn- 
ment that fancy can suggest, — you may cover it over with all the flow- 
ers and evergreens that the garden or the fields can furnish, so that it 
will appear beautiful outwardly unto men. But it is a sepulchre still, — 
full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness (Great cheering). Dis- 
guise slavery as you will,-— put into the cup all the pleasing and palat- 
able ingredients which you can discover in the wide range of nature 
and of art, — still it is a bitter, bitter, bitter draught, from which the 
understanding and the heart of every man, in whom nature works un- 
sophisticated and unbiassed, recoils with unutterable aversion and ab- 
horrence (Immense cheering). Why, Sir, slavery is the very Upas tree 
of the moral world, beneath whose pestiferous shade all intellect 
languishes, and all virtue dies. (Reiterated cheering). And if you would 
get quit of the evil, you must go more thoroughly and effectually to 
work than you can ever do by any or by all- of those palliatives, which 
are included under the term " mitigation." The foul sepulchre must 
be taken away. The cup of oppression must be dashed to pieces on 
the ground. The pestiferous tree must be cut down and eradicated ; 
it must be, root and branch of it, cast into the consuming fire, and its 
ashes scattered to the four winds of heaven. (Loud and long continued 
cheering). It is thus that you must deal with slavery. You must 
annihilate it, — annihilate it now, — and annihilate it for ever. 

Get your mitigation. I say in the second place, that you are thereby,. 



15 

in all probability farther away than ever from your object. It is not 
to the Government or the Parliament at home that you are to look — 
neither is it to the legislatures and planters abroad that you are to look — 
for accomplishing the abolition of negro slavery. Sad experience shows 
that, if left to themselves, they will do nothing efficient in this great 
cause. It is to the sentiments of the people at large that you are to 
look, to the spread of intellectual light, to the prevalence of moral feel- 
ing, to the progress, in short, of public opinion, which, when resting on 
right principles and moving in a right direction, must in this free and 
Christian country prove irresistible. (Great applause). But observe, Sir, 
the public mind will not be sufficiently affected by the statement of 
abstract truths, however just, or by reasonings on the tendencies of a 
system, however accurate. It must be more or less influenced by what 
is visible, or by what is easily known and understood of the actual 
atrocities which accompany slavery, wherever it is left to its own 
proper operation. Let it be seen in its native vileness and cruelty, 
as exhibited when not interfered with by the hand of authority, 
and it excites universal and unqualified detestation. But let its 
harsher asperities be rubbed off; take away the more prominent parts 
of its iniquity ; see that it look somewhat smoother and milder than it 
did before ; make such regulations as ought, if faithfully executed, to 
check its grosser acts of injustice and oppression ; give it the appearance 
of its being put under the humanizing sway of religious education and 
instruction ; do all this and you produce one effect at least, — you modify 
the indignation of a great number of the community ; you render slavery 
much less obnoxious ; you enable its advocates and supporters to sav in 
reply to our denunciations of its wickedness, " O, the slaves are now 
comfortable and happy ; they do not suffer what they did ; they are pro- 
tected and well treated," and in proof of all this, they point to what are 
called " mitigations." But mark me, Sir ; under these mitigations, slavery 
still exists, ready at every convenient season to break forth in all its count- 
less forms of inhumanity ; meanwhile the public feeling in a great mea- 
sure subsides ; And when the public feeling — such an important and in- 
dispensable element in our attempts to procure abolition — is allowed to 
subside, tell me, Sir, when, and where, and by what means it is again 
to be roused into activity. (Hear, hear, hear.) I must say, for one, 
that though I sympathize with my sable brethren, when I hear of them 
being spared even one lash of the cart- whip ; yet when I take a more en- 
larged view of their condition — when I consider the nature of that sys- 
tem under which they are placed, and when I look forward to their 
deliverance, and the means by which alone it is to be effected, I am 
tempted, and almost if not altogether persuaded, to deprecate that in- 
sidious thing termed " mitigation," because it directly tends to perpe- 
tuate the mighty evil, which will by and by throw off the improvements 
by which it is glossed over as quite unnatural to it, will ultimately 
grow up again into all its former dreadfulness, and continue to wither 
and crush beneath it, all that is excellent and glorious in man. (Great 
cheering). 

In the third place, by insisting on your plan of mitigation, you fur- 
nish the slave-holders with a weapon by which they will defeat the 

4 



16 

cause of abolition. They will resist all interference on your part with 
their alleged property, as long as they can ; but when they see you bent 
and determined on introducing improvements, with a view to ultimate 
emancipation, and as necessary for bringing it about, they will so far 
acquiesce and yield as to suit their own purpose — which is to disappoint 
your hopes. They will gratify you with one change this year, and with 
another change the next year : they will pretend to adopt this amend- 
ment, and to repress that abuse ; they will present to you a surface less 
ugly and revolting than what you had been accustomed to see. But then 
the slaves are still their property — remember that — and they have num- 
berless methods and opportunities of oppressing, grinding, tormenting 
these poor miserable beings. There will still be pangs and sorrows 
which wring their hearts in secret — there will be groans and sighs which 
can only ascend to heaven — and we rejoice to think that the ear of 
Deity is ever open to their cry. But you can never hear these groans— 
you can never know of these pangs. Slavery continues to reign. The pre- 
paration for its abolition seemed to be going on. And yet the upholders 
of this incurable system, as I must pronounce it to be, have been merely 
amusing and deceiving you. You have taught them — you have encourag- 
ed them to do so. They have removed some things that offended you— 
they have supplied other things that you said were wanting. In one 
word, they have " mitigated." But examine the matter closely, and it 
will be discovered that those whom you necessarily trusted for car- 
rying on the reform of the system, had been systematically evading 
every proposal that would trench on the essentials of their system — they 
had been all along deluding you with what had the semblance, but none 
of the reality of improvement — and you will discover when it is too late 
that slavery remains dominant in all its worst principles and most de- 
basing influences — that your preparatory scheme had failed in every ma- 
terial particular — that emancipation on that ground is as far from your 
reach as it was a century ago. Of all this you have a strong proof in the 
treatment given to the Orders in Council. These have been withstood — 
evaded — -frustrated — moderate and indulgent as they were. The planters 
got the advice from some of their correspondents in this country, to do some- 
thing to please the abolitionists. And in certain instances they have followed 
it. But we speak truly when we say, that the Orders in Council have not 
been obeyed in their spirit and intent. And, be assured, they will not 
be obeyed in that sense. It is impossible to enforce them — hearty co- 
operation is necessary to this, and such co-operation you can never get 
from the slave-holders. They can render inefficient every measure you 
may devise for their adoption ; and they have actually done so for seven 
long years. (Hear, hear.) Above all, they have opposed the intro- 
duction of Christianity among the slaves, without which the friends of 
gradual abolition allow and maintain the slaves cannot be properly pre- 
pared for freedom, and without which, they admit, that all other miti- 
gations are of little use in consequence. This they have opposed with 
their whole might — and this, be assured, Sir, they will continue to op- 
pose—and to this, from the very nature of religious instruction, and of 
the means for promoting it, their opposition will be successful. 

And here, Sir, I must be permitted to say a little on the argument 



17 

for slavery drawn from the holy Scriptures. (Hear, hear.) I never 
could see that there were any of those difficulties on this subject, which 
have weighed with some of my worthy Christian friends. Two years 
ago I published my sentiments on the point, and at the same time ad- 
vocated, what I am supporting this day, the cause of immediate aboli- 
tion. And the longer that I have reflected on the question, the more 
fully am I satisfied that the views which I then expressed are sound. 
Our opponents say, first, that slavery was permitted in the Old Testa- 
ment ; and, secondly, that it is not forbidden in the New. 

Now, Sir, I shall not stop to point out the difference that subsists be- 
tween slavery in our colonies, and slavery among the ancient Jews.* I 
will grant that slavery was permitted under the Old Testament dis- 
pensation. But what then ? The permission was given by Him who is 
the great proprietor of all, to answer his own especial purposes in the 
management of that peculiar people, among whom the practice was al- 
lowed to prevail. He might do the same thing just now, if it seemed 
good in his sight. But has he done so ? " Can the slave-holders produce 
any warrant for making property of their black brethren, and reducing 
them to the condition of slaves ? If they have any warrant, let them 
show it, and we will bow submissively to the will of heaven. Show 
me a case where a man, under the Jewish Theocracy, stole his neigh- 
bour and kept him as his property, without the sanction of the Almighty, 
and yet was approved of in this by the Almighty, and so far as this part of 
the argument goes, I contend no more. On any such case, however, I 
defy the most learned of our antagonists to condescend. And if slavery 
obtained in consequence of a divine appointment, or a divine permission, 
we can no more justify our maintaining slavery, when we can plead no 
such appointment and no such permission, than we could justify ourselves 
for sending forth an army to destroy the inhabitants of any country 
on the continent, who had not made war against us, merely because the 
Israelites — under the authority of God — went forth to slay and to ex- 
terminate the Canaanites. This appears to me quite sufficient to set aside 
the argument deduced from the Old Testament. When our opponents 
have recourse to the existence of slavery among the Jew^, they must al- 
low us to have recourse also to the reasons for it that are assigned in 
the divine record, which they so triumphantly refer to. 

As to the New Testament, I here concede, not that slavery is not for- 
bidden — but that it is not forbidden expressly or totidem verbis. Still this 
is nothing to the purpose. It is just in conformity to the wise and pru- 
dent mode which the first teachers of our religion followed, under di- 
vine direction, in preaching the gospel. They did not denounce every 
iniquitous practice that prevailed in their day, and rebuke those who 
were addicted to it. They did not intermeddle with existing institutions 
by name, point out their errors, command them to be abolished, and pre- 
scribe what should be substituted in their place. They were divinely 
taught to avoid this, which would have stirred up immediate opposition 

* See Godwin's " Lectures on British Colonial Slavery,'* p. 108, for some excellent 
remarks on the topic. The volume is earnestly recommended to general perusal and at- 
tention, jis affording correct information, and inculcating sound views* 



18 

to Christianity, and given its enemies a handle for representing it as 
hostile to the obligations of civil life and political government. Their 
o-eneral plan was to proclaim such doctrines and to inculcate such pre- 
cepts as, when believed and obeyed, would bring every species of injus- 
tice and wickedness to a speedy termination. Of this I can produce 
many examples. Did the Apostle Paul attack Nero, the great oppressor 
and man-slayer of his day ? No ; but he taught a religion which exposed 
Nero's tyranny to merited abhorrence, and which, if Nero had embraced 
it, would have put an end to his crimes. Did Paul tell husbands that 
they should not keep their wives as slaves, which these really were? 
No ; but he gave them such lessons as plainly condemned that tyran- 
ny, and instructed them to treat their wives as companions, with ten- 
derness and love. Did he take notice of and prohibit the horrible cus- 
tom, at once legal and prevalent, of parents putting to death their sickly 
and deformed children ; of their scourging and even killing their off- 
spring at their pleasure, and without there being any appeal against 
their barbarity ; of their selling their sons, which they were empowered 
to do three times, whereas they could only sell a slave once ? No ; but 
he laid such injunctions on parents as distinctly and forciblv demonstrat- 
ed those things to be contrary to the will of heaven, and enforced a 
conduct towards their children with which all such treatment was at ir- 
reconcilable variance. This was the way in which the appointed pro- 
mulgators of the gospel proscribed and interdicted those practices I 
have adverted to : and in the same way it proscribes and interdicts 
slavery. Its preachers did not say to slave-holders or to legislators, 
" you must immediately set all slaves at liberty !" But they said what 
was tantamount to this, and what could not but be received as a com- 
munication from the great Ruler of the world, without producing that 
effect. It is said in the New Testament, as it had been said in the Old, 
" Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself," — every man being there 
affirmed to be our neighbour; and if we love our neighbours as ourselves, 
can we keep them slaves ? It is said, " Do unto others as you would 
that others should do to you ;" and do we follow this golden rule, or do 
we not despise it, when we make others slaves ? It is said over and over 
again, that all men are our brethren : and is it a token of brotherly af- 
fection — is it not a contempt of the very phrase, when we retain anv 
one, who is bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh, in the condition of a 
slave ? And, to quote no more, look at the injunction, which the apos- 
tle Paul lays upon those who were in possession of slaves, and upon all 
who stand in the relation of masters. " Masters," says he, " give unto 
your servants that which is just and equal ;" — " forbearing threatening ; 
knowing that your master also is in heaven ; neither is there any respect 
of persons in him." And if masters give that which is just and equal 
to their servants, will they not first of all give them their freedom ? — 
especially when an appeal is made, in the way of motive, to him who is 
the sovereign Lord of both, and who has no respect of persons. And 
then, Sir, what are the doctrines of Christianity ? The first and funda- 
mental doctrine is, that we are all on a level in the sight of God, whe- 
ther we are black or white in the complexion, whether we are masters 
or slaves— all on a level in our sinfulness and liability to perdition — all 






19 

on a level in our absolute need, of the grace which is revealed in the 
gospel — all on a level as to the interposition of Jesus Christ, who died 
upon a cross, that he might be for salvation to the ends of the earth- 
all on a level as to the faith we must cherish, and the hopes we may en- 
tertain, and the character we are to cultivate, wich a view to heaven- 
all on a level as to the whole of that dispensation of mercy which has 
been established by the Redeemer, in whom, we are expressly told, there 
is " neither Greek nor Jew, barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free; but 
Christ is all and in all." And can we ever dream of the lawfulness or 
the sinlessness of making that man our slave, or of retaining him in 
slavery — buying and selling and treating him as a beast of burden — for 
whose soul, aye, and body too — both are redeemed by the gospel — Christ 
shed his infinitely precious blood, and who is entitled to look forward 
with ourselves, privileged as we are, to the blessedness of an eternal 
world? Does not the whole spirit and genius of Christianity — do not 
all its truths, and precepts, and prospects, frown upon slavery as a sys- 
tem of rebellion against God, and as one of those very fabrics of evil, 
which it was intended to overthrow? I might easily have enlarged on 
this view. But I flatter myself I have said enough to show that those who 
take shelter under Christianity, as if that afforded any countenance to 
the slave system, are either ignorant or regardless of that revelation of 
divine mercy — that when they appeal to the Scriptures as sanctioning 
what they are so unwilling to renounce, they do nothing less than put 
a blasphemous commentary on the contents of that sacred volume. 
(Cheers.) And it is worth mentioning, that the subject was practically 
viewed in that light by many eminent persons in the earlier ages of the 
church. For instance, Constantine exercised his authority in facilitat- 
ing the manumission of slaves — allowing the ceremony to be performed 
on the Lord's day, because he considered it a religious or Christian act. 
Gregory the Great emancipated his own slaves, and encouraged others 
to do the same, on the principle that our Redeemer took upon him our 
ilesh, in order to deliver us from the bondage of sin, and that, therefore, 
we should give back freedom to those whom the law of nations had de- 
prived of it. Many bishops did the same thing, on the same or on similar 
grounds. They did this, not under the gradual influence of the gospel, 
but from the knowledge and conviction, that it is directly hostile to 
slavery, and that its true and enlightened votaries cannot consistently 
hold human beings in bondage. 

But the planters and Colonial Legislatures oppose with all their might 
the spread of Christianity among the slave population. Of this fact 
there cannot be a doubt in any mind that has attended to the subject, 
and it is in vain for the advocates of slavery to deny it. 1 must not be 
told of insulated cases of good men among the planters allowing, or even 
encouraging ministers of religion to preach to the negroes. I must not 
be told of such persons as the Rev. Mr. Bridges occasionally baptizing 
great numbers of them, as if the waters of baptism were equivalent to 
instruction in the doctrines and duties and consolations of Christianitv. 
I must not be told of persons from our own country being called, and 
having churches built for them, that they may dispense the ordinances 
of religion. All this may be done — all this has been done — and yet the 



20 

good effected can scarcely be estimated, so inconsiderable is it. But we 
have various broad and unquestionable facts, demonstrative of my state- 
ment, that to the diffusion of Christian truth among the slaves, their 
masters are invincibly repugnant. Need I remind you, in proof of this, 
of the case of Mr. Harte in Barbadoes, a rector in the English church 
there, who, in dispensing the Lord's supper, an ordinance in which all 
his disciples are equally entitled and called upon to remember the 
dying love of Jesus — administered it to some people of colour, kneeling 
at the same altar with white people, though a space intervened between 
them, and had also preached the doctrine of redemption by the blood of 
Christ to all, whether bond or free ; and on that account was denounced 
by a meeting of the Vestry of St. Lucy, in a series of resolutions 
passed and published, as if he had thereby undermined the very foun- 
dations of West India society ?* Need I recall to your recollection the 
persecution of the Missionary Smith unto death, and of various other 
Missionaries of unimpeachable characters, for their zeal and fidelity in 
preaching the gospel of salvation to the slaves ? Need I tell you of the 
destruction of places of worship by mobs, consisting not of the rabble, 
but of the better classes of the whites, who afford a specimen of the 
influence which in that unhappy quarter is actually brought to bear 
against our attempts to evangelize their bondsmen ? Need I speak of 
their habitual, total, and legalized desecration of the Sabbath day, which 
the slaves are compelled to make their own working-day and marketing- 
day, in bold defiance of that divine commandment which says, a Re- 
member the Sabbath day to keep it holy," and without whose sacred 
rest, the religion of the Bible can make no progress and obtain no foot- 
ing ? Need I speak of the enactment by which it is ordered that no 
place of worship shall be open, — no meeting for that purpose held, be- 
fore sun-rise or after sun-set, — they who made the enactment being well 

* The following are some of the resolutions passed on the occasion alluded to — Sir 
R. A. Alleyne in the chair ; and they furnish unequivocal proof of what is contended for, 
viz. that the whites will not agree to the introduction of Christianity in its genuine 
spirit and entire form, because they conceive it subversive of slavery ; and that ministers 
who are brave enough to declare the message from God, and to do his work faithfully, 
must lay their account with obloquy, resistance, and persecution. 

" Resolved 2d, That in all communities, distinctions of rank are necessary to the safety 
and wellbeing of society, and more especially in such a one as ours, where the hand of 
nature has drawn a mark of distinction between the proprietor of the soil, and its depen- 
dents. 3d, That any attempts proceeding from the ministers of religion to destroy these 
distinctions, to amalgamate and level the two classes of our country, must tend to en- 
danger the safety and property of the white inhabitants, and cannot be otherwise than 
injurious to the civil condition, and religious improvement of the black population, by 
exciting in their minds discontent, and views inconsistent with their situation, and in 
the proprietors a just jealousy of those who are appointed to the office of the religious in- 
struction of the slaves. 4th, That it is with deep concern that the inhabitants of this 
parish, have observed the frequent attempts made by the rector of the parish, to destroy 
the distinctions which they deem so necessary to their safety, more especially evinced by 
his offensive sermon on Easter Sunday, and his disgraceful conduct while adminis- 
tering the Holy Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, thereby endeavouring to alienate the 
slaves from a sense of their duty, by inculcating doctrines of equality inconsistent with 
their obedience to their masters, and the policy of this island." 



21 

aware that in this case, most of the slaves, having to toil From sun-rise to 
sun-set, would be unable to attend, and thus debarred from the means 
of improvement ? And need I state, that notwithstanding all that has 
been said, and recommended, and enjoined upon this important subject, 
yet neither in the crown, nor in the chartered colonies, has any legal 
provision been made for securing to the slaves the essential benefits of 
education and Christian instruction ? * 

And, Sir, I do not wonder at all this. For, in the jirst place, the 
slave-holders and their legislators know as well as we do, that Chris- 
tianity is utterly inimical to slavery, which at all rates they are deter- 
mined to uphold. They are ignorant, I dare say, but not so ignorant as 
not to see that if the slave population were all imbued with the spirit of 
the gospel, they would, with one great simultaneous movement, cast off 
the bonds which oppress them, and assert that liberty which the same 
gospel would teach them to " use as not abusing it:" For the spirit of the 
gospel is a spirit of liberty, not in any one department, but in all de- 
partments of human life : it is a general, pervading principle, repulsive 
to bondage of whatsoever kind. " Whom the Son of God hath made 
free, he is free indeed." — (Cheers*) For this reason they will resist all 
your endeavours to give a free circulation to religious truth, and a free 
ingress to Christian ministers, in the colonies and among the slaves. 
They may admit those teachers who will dwell chiefly on mere outward 
forms ; who will be more ready to inculcate passive obedience, than jus- 
tice and humanity ; who will refrain from checking the tyranny and li- 
centiousness of the masters ; who will never take part with the slave 
when he is consigned to unmerited punishment ; and who will be found 
on every occasion to advocate the cause of the planters, and the conti- 
nuance of slavery. But they will not, they cannot, they dare not, ad- 
mit those men who will be bold enough to declare the whole counsel of 
God, and under the sanction and by the help of revelation, pursue it as 
one of their objects to put down, or even to mitigate, " one of the 
greatest evils that ever afflicted or disgraced humanity." 

In the second place, they look on slaves as their property, in some de- 
gree, as they look on dogs and horses as their property ; and so long as 
this is the case, it is impossible that they should be anxious for culti- 
vating their minds, and imparting to them religious and moral instruc- 
tion. And as a proof that this is the light in which the skrves are re- 
garded by them, I beg to quote from this Edinburgh newspaper, of Oc- 
tober 9, 1830, in which two estates in the West Indies (island of To- 
bago), are advertised for sale ; the sale to take place on the 9th day of 
March next, in the Royal Exchange Coffee-rooms, Edinburgh. On one 
of these estates there are said to be " upwards of 100 negroes, l§ mules, 
17 working oxen, 28 pasture cattle, besides sheep." And on the other, 

" An advocate for slavery thus writes in a Jamaica Courant of July last, — and 
his language may be considered as expressing the sentiments of the great body of those 
■whose cause he has espoused : " If any gentleman wishes to convert the heathen, or to 
teach them to read and write, let him first free them out of his own pocket, and then he 
may make a kirk and a mill of them. But for a recorder, attorney, or overseer to edu- 
cate the slaves under their management, before the proprietor is remunerated, is down- 
right robbery or madness." 



there aie said to be " upwards of 120 negroes, 10 mules, 18 oxen, IS 
cows, besides sheep and other stock !" Can any thing be more conclu- 
sive than this very fact, of. the degraded light in which the slaves are 
considered by their owners, and of the unblushing effrontery with which 
these will avow their doctrine on that subject. Here, in the 19th centu- 
ry, when men's rights are so well ascertained and so liberally acknow- 
ledged — in the metropolis of the land of Bibles, of enlightened and 
Christian Scotland — in the very place where we have assembled to pe- 
tition for the emancipation of slaves— we are insulted with an advertise- 
.ment, telling us that, in our own public market, hundreds of human be- 
ings are to be exposed to sale, and classing them -with mules, oxen, cows, 
sheep, and other stock ! {Cheers.) And when they have courage for 
tiiis, can we suppose that they will care for giving the slaves religious 
instruction ? Ave, just as they will care for giving it to the oxen and 
the mules, with whom the slaves are put on a footing of equality ! To 
give religious instruction to beings whom they have reduced to such a 
level, and of whom they speak with such contempt, would be prepos- 
terous and absurd; yes, and it would be dangerous too, for it would be to 
employ the means of unfitting them for being any longer properly, and of 
subtracting them ere long from their " other stock." 1 sincerely hope, and 
I am certain, if we do what we ought to do, that, by the 19th of March 
next, when the horrible " roup" is to take place, the West India estates 
will be of little value, so far as the negroes are concerned in the trans- 
action. (Cheers.) 

In short, Sir, it is not to be expected, it is contrary to all the proba- 
bilities of the case, it is a moral impossibility, that religious instruction 
should be suffered to spread among the slaves ; and if religious instruc- 
tion does not prevail, and produce its proper effects, it seems to be agreed 
on all hands, that no substantial amelioration can be accomplished, and 
then it follows, of course, that the whole scheme of gradual abolition 
falls to the ground. To look for it, or to seek for it, in such circum- 
stances, is about as wise as the conduct of the simpleton, who was 
seen standing long on the brink of a mighty stream, and on being asked 
why he stood there so long, replied, that lie was waiting till the river 
had run by. — (Cheers and laughter.) 

I have no doubt that it will be said ; Why will you not trust the 
Parliament and the Government, that they will abolish slavery " at the 
earliest practicable period ?" I answer, that I can place no confidence 
.either in the Parliament or the Government, though I have much re- 
spect for both, in some points ; — my confidence rests on the public feel- 
ing of Great Britain and Ireland. — (Cheers.) I freely and frankly de- 
ciare it. I have had proofs of the growing attachment of the people 
to our cause ; but I have had sore and melancholy experience of the in- 
difference of the other two bodies,— instead of advancing, they have 
been retrograding. — (Cheers.) I will give you some reasons why I can- 
not trust them, or anticipate any thing from them, unless there be a 
strong constitutional pressure upon them from without, and unless the 
united voice of the empire is raised in favour of immediate emancipation. 

In 1823, Mr. Buxton, a distinguished philanthropist, and an ardent 
friend to the cause of abolition, — though a gradualist, for which I do 



23 

not much like him, (laugh), brought forward a motion in the House of 
Commons to the following effect : — " That the state of slavery is re- 
pugnant to the principles of the British constitution and the Christian 
religion, and that it ought to be gradually abolished throughout the 
British dominions, with as much expedition as may be consistent with 
a due regard to the wellbeing of the parties concerned." Nothing 
could be more moderate than this, — it would have suited our friends 
whose resolutions and petition were rejected by you at our last meeting 
— it was such as the most cautious and temperate of emancipationists 
might have acquiesced in, even without any serious opposition from a 
slave-holder. And yet its fate in the House of Commons was that of 
being refused and quashed. It did not please the Commons, though, in 
my view of the subject, it was a very inadequate proposal ; and it was 
superseded by the following resolutions, — still more milk-and-water 
than Mr. Buxton's motion, — which Mr. Canning moved, and which were 
unanimously adopted. 

" 1st, That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures for meliorating 
the condition of the slave population in his Majesty's dominions. 

" 2d, That, through a determined and persevering, but judicious and temperate, 
enforcement of such measures, this House looks forward to a progressive improvement 
in the character of the siave population ; such as may prepare them for a participation 
in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his Majesty's 
subjects. 

" 3d, That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose at the 
earliest period that may be compatible with the well-being of the slaves, the safety of the 
colonies, and with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private pro- 
perty." 

" 4th, That these resolutions be laid before his Majesty." 

And in speaking in support of these resolutions, the Right lion. 
Gentleman who moved them, took occasion, if I recollect right, to deny 
the contrariety which was alleged to subsist between either the British 
constitution or the Christian religion, and colonial slavery. And in all 
his discussions, though he sometimes spoke strongly against it, yet he 
expressed himself so much in the spirit of compromise, and with such' 
excessive caution, as to convey the impression, that the administration 
which he guided were not hearty in the cause of abolition, and had no 
proper and deep-rooted convictions of its necessity. 

Then, again, what happened in July this very year ? Mr. Canning's 
resolution had been followed by Orders in Council, recommending or 
prescribing certain changes in the treatment of slaves, which I shall 
not now enumerate or consider. But seven years had elapsed, and the 
mitigation and improvement thereby contemplated had never taken 
place. The most important of them had been peremptorily refused. 
The language of insult and rebellion had been used in the colonies to- 
wards the authorities in Great Britain. And so far as any thing had 
been done in apparent compliance with the Orders, it was found to be 
evasive, trifling, or nugatory. Well, at the close of the last session, 
Mr. Brougham, in one of the most powerful speeches ever delivered 
within the walls of the House of Commons, brought forward a motion. 



'•' pledging the House to proceed at the earliest practicable period in the 
next session, to take into its serious consideration the mitigation and 
final abolition of slavery, together with the amendment of the adminis- 
tration of justice in the slave colonies of Great Britain." Could yon 
have believed it possible that the House of Commons would negative 
such a motion as this ? Had Mr. Brougham gone a great deal farther 
in his demands, might it not have been expected, that after the contempt 
and obstinacy manifested by the colonies, for seven long years, even 
these larger demands would have been acceded to without hesitation ? 
And yet our worthy representatives rejected Mr. Brougham's motion 
by a large majority ! Does this afford any reason for our reposing con- 
fidence in Parliament ? And now observe the sentiments which Go- 
vernment expressed in the course of the debate. In reply to the irre- 
sistible argument and matchless eloquence of Mr. Brougham, Sir R, Peel 
" urged various objections to the expediency of giving the prospective 
pledge proposed by that honourable Member. He objected to it, among other 
reasons, because it pledged the House to the final abolition of slavery, 
whereas, he was not prepared to give any such pledge, until he saw the 
means of effecting it. It did so too, without adverting to compensa- 
tion. He admitted he could not defend the title by which slaves were 
held as property, but still he thought the present holders of them had 
the same just claim to compensation with the holders of any other kind 
of property. He cautioned the House against pledging itself to any 
measure leading to emancipation. He admitted the power of Parlia- 
ment to impose laws on the colonies, but he could not contemplate, 
without horror, an idea of going to war with them to enforce such laws. 
He viewed the atrocities practised towards the slaves with deep re- 
gret, especially as he could not view them merely as if they were the 
acts of individuals, but as indicating that the sympathies of the colon- 
ists generally were enlisted on the side of the wrong-doer and against 
the slave. While he admitted, in the fullest extent, the right of Par- 
liament to legislate for the colonies on this question, yet he should ra- 
ther let the necessary measures originate in the kindly feelings of the 
colonists themselves, for he thought little good could be expected from 
reluctant legislation." 

Sir, one cannot help feeling surprise and indignation at such conduct 
on the part of his majesty's ministers. I shall not stop to point out the 
contradictions and absurdities which occur in the Right Honourable Se- 
cretary's remarks. But look, I pray you, to what he announces as his 
opinion in July last on the subject of final abolition. He was pledged 
to that object by the Resolutions of 1S23. And yet, with the utmost 
coolness, he comes forward, in 1830, and declares, in the face of that 
Christian country whose affairs he is employed to assist in administering, 
that he cannot agree to Mr. Brougham's motion, for this among other 
reasons, that it pledges the House to the very thing to which he and 
the House were pledged seven years before ; he cautions the House 
against entering into any such measure, leading to such a result ; and 
he uses his ministerial influence to prevail upon the House to acquiesce 
in and support his tergiversation! Thus the Government are going 
back in this question, — there is just the more urgent necessity for our 

4 



25 

going forward, and forward we shall go (Loud cheers). It now appears 
that the administration have not made up their minds as to the propriety 
or duty of rescuing, at any future time, or in any circumstances, 800,000 
of their fellow-suhjects from the most detestable bondage. They have 
even broken their promise, — they have resiled from the assurance they 
long ago gave us, on this simple, though essential, point. And yet we are 
exhorted to place reliance upon them as if they would not deceive us, and 
to petition for nothing more than gradual emancipation ! Let us peti- 
tion for gradual emancipation, say the advocates for that plan ; for we 
cannot expect to get any thing more : immediate emancipation will not 
be granted. Why, Sir, if we complaisautly put our case into the hands 
of Ministers, it appears from the language of Sir R. Peel, that we shall 
get neither the one nor the other. But, Sir, it is not what we may suc- 
ceed in obtaining, that should regulate the nature and extent of our re- 
quest. It becomes us to ask what it is morally right for us to have. 
That is the measure of our obligation, whatever be the consequence of 
our petitioning. It is our duty to knock, and never to cease knocking, 
at the doors of the Parliament and of the Ministry till we prevail upon 
them, — till we compel them, by constitutional means, — don't let me be 
misunderstood, — by constitutional means, — to grant what we demand, 
and what we deem absolutely necessary on the grounds of religion, jus- 
tice, humanity, and every thing that is most dear and precious in the es- 
timation of man, — I mean the immediate and total abolition of colonial 
slavery. (Loud cheers.) 

As another reason for distrusting His Majesty's Government upon 
this vital question, I refer to the case of the Mauritius. A protecting 
duty had been laid on the sugar of the East, evidently for the benefit 
of the West India planters. But then the Mauritius" produced sugar 
by means of slave labour. It was proposed to relieve the Mauritius, 
thus situated, from the protecting duty, and continue to levy it on In- 
dia. Remonstrances against this were strongly urged ; but in vain. 
The Parliament and the Ministry, as if from an instinctive partiality to 
the produce of the labour and the blood of slaves, carried the measure 
into effect, and, in respect of the protecting duty, put the Mauritius on 
a footing with the colonies which are cultivated by slaves, and discour- 
aged the cultivation in those parts only where it is carried on by free- 
men ! This fact by itself might evince that the Legislature and the 
Government are heterodox on the question of abolition altogether, — that 
they are unworthy of any thing like implicit confidence in the matter, 
— that they must be instructed and addressed by their constitutents and 
by the people, in a tone which they will feel it difficult or impossible to 
disregard. 

I have still another proof to mention, of the little dependence that is 
to be placed on Government in this great cause, unless they shall be 
carefully watched, and vigorously urged by the people. Every one of 
us, gradualists and immediatists, allow the necessity of giving moral and 
religious tuition to the slaves. The immediatists insist upon it as a boon 
which should be given to them at any time and in any circumstances, 
though they also maintain that it is not necessary before emancipation, 
and that it can only be effectually imparted after emancipation is accom- 
plished. And the gradualists, having it as their leading argument, that 

E 



26 

moral and religious training is an indispensable preliminary to emanci- 
pation, are zealous that this should be realized without delay, in any mea- 
sures that may be adopted, with a view to the object which we all pro- 
fess to be pursuing. Nay, in the catalogue of those reforms which were 
proposed by the Orders in Council, this very thing stood first and foremost 
— which was very imposing to Christian men. But we all know that „ 
nothing was done. And no wonder ; for the Government don't seem to 
be sincere on the subject. Why, Sir, they have abandoned this point, 
so far as they are concerned, and appear to have left it to the discretion 
of the planters and Colonial Assemblies, from a persuasion — is it so ? — 
that their Christian principles and feelings will lead them to do that for 
which any compulsory measure would be unavailing ! Sir George Mur- 
ray, indeed, who was secretary for the Colonial Department, in his let- 
ter, two years ago, to the governors of chartered colonies, did very forci- 
bly urge upon them the duty of making provision by law for the objects 
alluded to. But then in the Order of Council, dated in February last, 
there is a new consolidated slave code for the crown colonies, which is 
also held out as a model on which the chartered colonies are to legislate ; 
and yet in that code there is not a single provision as to the means of 
education and religions instruction for the slaves ! Here the most mo- 
mentous and essential of all the means of mitigating the evils of slavery, 
and preparing the slaves for emancipation, is deliberately and studiously 
omitted in the very document in which it ought to have been found ; 
and as such a thing was proposed by our Government a year and a half 
before, we are again compelled to conclude that they are not merely va- 
cillating but retreating, and that therefore they are unworthy of that re- 
liance which we are expected to place upon their earnestness or their 
sincerity in the cause even of final abolition. 

And, Sir, would you know the secret of such proceedings as those to 
which I have noW adverted ? It is this — I must not blink it, and nobody 
who is acquainted with these matters can deny it — the West India in- 
terest is too strong for ministers to contend against in the House of 
Commons. This interest can command from 60 to 80 votes in that 
House, (Hear, hear,) no trifling matter, it must be admitted, in the eyes 
t)f those who have not lately been able to carry their measures by very 
triumphant majorities, and who, if they are desirous to succeed by the 
help of the anti-abolition members, must naturally give a quid pro quo. 
Whatever the quo may have been, we see what the quid is — a refusal to 
give a pledge even for ultimate emancipation, or to adopt any plans, even 
on the principle of gradualism, that any one above the rank of a change- 
ling can consider to be efficient. The West India interest, during the 
late elections, have made inconceivable exertions to augment and 
strengthen their power in Parliament. How far they have been success- 
ful in their attempts I cannot pretend to say. But one thing is clear ; 
the greater their zeal is to uphold slavery, the greater ought to be ours 
to bring it to an immediate and " perpetual end." And still more ought 
we to be upon our guard, and still more ought we to bestir ourselves, 
from the circumstances 1 am about to mention. It is communicated in 
a letter from my friend Mr. Brougham to Mr. Pringle,* which, in the 

* The excellent Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, London, who happened to be 
in Edinburgh at the time the meeting referred to was held. 



27 

bustle that took place, was neglected to be rend to you at last mooting. 
Mr. Brougham, after regretting his inability to attend the meeting to 
which he had been invited, intimates as certain, that two measures are 
in progress — one a parliamentary enactment, the other an executive ar- 
rangement — most interesting to the slave population, and requiring upon 
our part the most vigilant attention, not to say strenuous opposition. The 
former is the bill for facilitating the removal of negroes from settlement 
to settlement, which is at present a capital offence ; the latter is the ad- 
mission of the planters and others, in certain of the Crown Colonies, to 
have a share in the government thereof. These plans, coupled with the 
declarations of Sir Robert Peel, at the close of last session, to which I have 
already alluded, demand the utmost exertion, on the part of the abolition- 
ists. And it is one object of Mr. Brougham's letter to call upon all the op- 
ponents of slavery, whether members of Parliament or others, to be early at 
their post, and to be constant and jealous in their attentions to the pro- 
ceedings of government. 

I conclude this part of my argument by remarking, that if we confide 
in parliament and his Majesty's ministers for the abolition of slavery 
at all, or even for those measures which are thought by the gradualists 
to be requisite as preliminaries to it, we shall act contrary to the experi- 
ence we have had of their views and principles, and shall be guilty of 
disbelieving the votes they have come to, and the declarations they have 
made, in the face of the country whose people they represent, or whose 
affairs they administer. The things that they have done, and the things 
that they have failed to do, equally afford, 1 scruple not to say, ample 
demonstration that they are unsound upon the whole question at issue, 
and that they must be taught, urged, and constitutionally constrained to 
emancipate the slaves, by the people at large, who are as well qualified to 
judge of this subject—a subject of the plainest Christian and moral prin- 
ciple—as any statesman can be, within the limits of the three kingdoms, 
it is impossible for me, Sir, to reply to all the attacks that have been 
made upon me in certain newspapers, since I publicly advocated the 
cause of immediate abolition. Some of these 1 disdain to answer. 
{Cheers.) They are obviously dictated by personal malice ; I know 
them to be so ; and I will not condescend to notice such contemptible 
abuse — such unworthy antagonists. {Continued cheers.} But wherever 
I find a grave argument, I am ready to meet it ; and here I have some- 
thing like argument in a letter (printed in some of the journals) 
from my friend Mr. Combe, which he honourably acknowledges by put- 
ting his name to it. Permit me, Sir, to offer a few remarks on what 
Mr. Combe has printed to influence his fellow-citizens in behalf of gra- 
dual emancipation. 

Mr. Combe acknowledges that we are right in the abstract principle 
for which we contend, but wrong in insisting on its . application to the 
present case. His doctrine of abstract principle is one to which, so far 
as I understand it, I cannot in conscience subscribe. What he calls an 
abstract principle, is nothing more nor less than this, that to make any 
man a slave, or to keep him a slave, is to violate his essential rights— 
to transgress eternal justice — to break the first laws of religion and 
morality. There is nothing abstract in this. The statement is, that a 
cruel wrong is done to the slave, in opposition to the will of God, which is 



28 

the standard of all judgment, and of all conduct ; and the necessary in- 
ference is, that the wrong must be immediately redressed, because, to per- 
severe in inflicting it, is to persevere in the very thing which involves 
the guilt of disobeying God. To adopt the views which Mr. Combe 
seems to avow, would, in my opinion, lay every moral obligation at the 
feet of wordly expediency. I strongly suspect that he has got his no- 
tions of this subject from the West Indies ; for I find that a Mr. Hinds, 
in Barbadoes, when defending Colonial Slavery, asserts, that " all the 
evils of slavery are abstract, and that all its blessings are positive." 
(Laughter.) Why, Sir, had Mr. Hinds reversed the proposition, and 
said that all the evils of slavery are positive, and all its blessings abstract, 
he would have been nearer both to truth and common sense. Is the 
application of the cart-whip to the slave's bare back an abstract evil ? 
Yes ; it tears the flesh from the bones, and that is abstraction sure 
enough. But in no other sense is the evil of the cart-whip abstract. 
And where are the positive blessings ? I know of none, unless it be a 
blessing to give the poor slave as much food and clothing and repose as 
will enable him to perform all the work he is compelled to do, in order 
to produce so much sugar, and put so much money into his master's 
pocket. (Cheers.) Not one whit less absurd is the proposition of my 
friend Mr. Combe as to the abstract principle. That we should obey 
the will of the Almighty, and that we should not continue to do what 
he has forbidden, is not an abstract principle — it is a concrete principle, 
for ever dwelling in the Christian's mind, pressing upon his conscience, 
and influencing his conduct. Slavery — being in direct hostility to that 
will, and an impious defiance of it — is a crime which must be immediately 
and unreservedly abandoned, as much at least as any other species of 
criminality whatever. 

My friend, Mr. Combe, says, that to " emancipate the slaves instantly 
would be to turn them adrift from the stay which has hitherto sustained 
them, and to withdraw the motives which have hitherto inspired them, 
without preparing them to substitute better from their own resources." 
The stay which has hitherto supported them is the care taken of them 
by their master in consideration of their labouring for his profit, and 
henceforth, they will just do that freely, which heretofore they have 
done by compulsion — for unless they work, I fear much that neither 
will they get any thing to eat. And then as to the motives which Mr. 
C. speaks of with so much complacency — what, I ask, are these motives 
which have hitherto inspired the slaves? Inspiration, indeed! Does 
Mr. C refer to the lacerating cart-whip, the prickly ebony, the horrible 
bamboo ? (Hear, hear, and cheers.) And is he prepared to maintain 
either the justice or the mercy of such motives as these ? O, we are 
told, that the slaves will not work without them. But, Sir, I now per- 
sonate the slave, and I say, in answer to those who use such an argu- 
ment, " What title have you to lay upon me one stripe, when I have 
committed no crime ? Has God given you power to use me as your horse 
or your mule ? Then show me your commission from heaven that I may 
submit. (Cheers.) But you can show no such warrant. And, there- 
fore, I am as free in the sight of my Maker as you are. Your keeping 
me in bondage is a crime — every exaction of labour from me is injustice 



29 

—every punishment you inflict upon me is cruelty." Sir, I defy any 
man to say a word in reply to this appeal of the slave. And yet, here 
Mr. C. pleads for an indefinite continuance of that system which sub- 
jects the slaves to the grossest injustice and cruelty, and he does so 
under the very convenient and imposing phraseology of not " withdraw- 
ing the motives which have hitherto inspired them." (Loud cheers.) 

As a proof of the necessity of gradual emancipation, Mr. C. tells us 
the old story of a man who had been confined for thirty years in the 
Bastile, and who, when liberated, at the destruction of that horrid state 
prison, became more miserable by the suddenness of his transition ; and 
adds, that his liberators would have been both more rational and more 
humane, had they provided an asylum to receive him. This, I agree 
with Mr. C. in thinking they ought to have done. But the analogy 
does not hold ; for, instead of proposing that the slaves should be turn- 
ed adrift and cared for no more, we propose that such arrangements 
shall be made as are suited to the exigencies of their condition. This is 
what our petition prays for, along with their emancipation. It is what 
they are entitled to in equity as well as in compassion ; and far be it 
from us to say or do any thing that would disparage such a claim. But 
really Mr. C. does not seem to entertain adequate ideas on the subject. 
" His eye," says he, " could not bear the effulgence of day, because its 
physical structure had accommodated itself to the twilight glimmering of 
a gloomy cell." It is really trifling with the subject to talk thus 
gravely on the man's eye being unable to bear the day-light — for that is 
the plain meaning of the words. Why, Sir, a green shade would have 
answered all the purpose. (Laugh.) And then, Sir, I would infinitely 
rather be a freeman, with my eyes hermetically sealed against all the 
beauties of the earth, and all the magnificence of the firmament, than I 
would be a slave, with my eyes wide open to look upon my chains that 
were never to be broken, (cheers) and upon my task-masters, who were 
never to have done with oppressing me, and upon my dearest kindred 
who were either enjoying a blessing from which I was for ever exclud- 
ed, or to be my fellow- sufferers without hope, under the basest and bit- 
terest of all human degradation. ( Great cheering.) 

Then Mr. Combe speaks of the French Revolution of 1789 as contrast- 
ed with that of 1830. In the former case, the people were not prepared 
for freedom, and therefore ran to all manner of excess ; whereas, in the 
latter, they were prepared for it, by living under the charter, and there- 
fore acted so as to gain the admiration of the world. But Mr. C. should 
recollect that in the case of the French, in 17&9> there was no superior 
power to check or prevent those outrages which owed their existence 
and their enormity to the infidelity, the profligacy, the despotism of 
the men who had ruled over them, while in the present case the slaves 
are to be set free by a Government which can coerce them when they 
become free as well as it coerces them now that they are in bondage, 
and may, by virtue of its dominion, and must, in the discharge of its 
duty, provide both for their well-doing and their well-being in the most 
effectual manner. And I may ask, moreover, if the French acted so no- 
bly in 1830 from having been trained to correct thinking and feeling 
under the charter, how was it that they happened to get the charter? And 



30 

whether it was likely they would have obtained such a schoolmaster as 
the charter for many ages, if that other revolution had not previously- 
taken place, which notwithstanding filled all Europe with horror and 
alarm. At all events, between the case of the French Revolution and 
of the emancipation of the slaves there is no parallel. The circumstan- 
ces are evidently and totally different. 

Mr. C. has also brought to his aid the subject of the press-gang, — we 
would be punished by the law, he says, if we deforced a press-gang, al- 
though we might urge the plea of eternal justice. Here again the ana- 
logy fails. The impressment of seamen is only justified by its defenders 
— I am none of them, however — on the ground of state necessity in a 
time of urgent peril ; when that necessity ceases, they exchange the ship 
of war for the merchant vessel. And seamen when they choose their 
profession either know, or should know, that this is one of the risks to 
which they expose themselves by their preference of a maritime life. But 
slavery is engaged in, and carried on, by a class of individuals who have no 
other end to serve than the gratification of their own avarice ; and, alas ! 
the poor slaves have no option, — they are not allowed to fix on a pro- 
fession which would exempt them from the hazard of bondage, — they 
are born slaves, or they are compelled to be slaves by a brute force 
which they cannot possibly resist, — -and to the wrongs which they suf- 
fer there is no prospect of any termination. And with all this, we de- 
fend not the expedient of impressing seamen, and trust that the day is 
not far distant when it will be renounced as great impolicy and unne- 
cessary hardship, though it may not be a violation of essential right, as 
slavery must unquestionably, and in every point of view, be deemed. 
( Cheers. ) 

The grand scheme which Mr. C. proposes for rendering emancipation 
safe consists in " making it imperative on the planters to cultivate the 
moral and intellectual powers of their slaves." Truly, Sir, I am sorry 
to observe that such a philosopher should publish such an absurd propo- 
sition. It betrays great ignorance of the state of matters in our colon- 
ies, and, besides, indicates an inacquaintance with the treatment and 
education of mind of which 1 could scarcely have suspected him to be 
capable. How can you force the planters to do any thing which, they 
tell you, is to ruin them ? With what propriety can you urge them to 
give instruction to beings whom they regard as their mere property, 
and classify with their mules, and oxen, and other stock ? If, indeed, 
the burlesque view of phrenology, which has been given by its enemies, 
were correct and true, we might succeed in the enterprize, by putting 
the heads of the slaves into moulds so formed as to produce all the pro- 
per bumps, and to bring them all out in their right relative proportions, 
so that we could elaborate the talents and dispositions that we wished 
to encourage (Laughter),— though, even here, seeing the result was to 
be emancipation, the planters would much rather break the moulds 
than use them. But to expect that these gentlemen, after all the 
avowals they have made on this subject, and considering the means and 
opportunities which they have to thwart your every effort, should set 
about " cultivating the moral and intellectual powers of their slaves," 
because they were commanded to do so with a view to rob them of their 

7 



31 

property, is about the wildest and most chimerical idea that has ever been 
broached since the commencement of the controversy. Give the slaves 
their liberty, and then you can secure their full and universal instruction; 
but as long as they are slaves, held to be the property of their masters, 
and involved in all the disadvantages of colonial bondage, barriers to 
their religious and moral culture will be set up, which I defy all your 
parliamentary enactments, and all your orders in council, to surmount 
or to overthrow. The principles of the slave system, the doctrines of 
the slave-holders, the habits and circumstances of the slave colonies, 
and the uniform history of the slave question, — all unite in demonstrat- 
ing the vanity and fallaciousness of Mr. C.'s benevolent speculation. 

I am afraid, Sir, that 1 have exhausted the patience of the meeting 
(Cheers), but 1 hope you will permit me to say a few words on the 
subject of compensation. (Hear, hear.) And here I am free to con- 
fess, that on this point there is, among those who are for immediate 
emancipation, a difference of opinion. Some are for giving compensa- 
tion to the slave-holders, and others are for refusing it. It is a fair sub- 
ject of discussion, both in Parliament and out of it. And when the 
proper period arrives, it ought to be discussed with candour and deli- 
beration. I have no scruple and no hesitation in saying, that, for my 
own part, I object to the doctrine of compensation. Our resolutions 
and our petition say nothing on that topic ; but I am anxious to submit 
my views with respect to a claim which is most resolutely enforced by 
the enemies of abolition, and urged to such an extent, as to convince me 
that they use it as a bug-bear to frighten us from our purpose — as a 
check-mate to all our exertions for the deliverance of our oppressed fel- 
low-subjects in the colonies.* 

And here, Sir, I would observe, in the Jirst place, that when our op- 
ponents plead for compensation, because our Legislature sanctioned 
slavery, they seem to proceed upon the supposition that sanctioning 

* The value of the slaves has been estimated by the anti-abolitionists at eighty millions 
sterling ! This is about as extravagant as some numerical statements which have lately 
appeared in certain newspapers respecting the property and interests that are at stake 
in the event of emancipation. Nothing can be more absurd than these are, or more art- 
ful than the use that is made of them by their promulgators. The colonial property, 
for instance, is set down at L.200,000,000 ! And all this, the reader is left to infer, is 
to be destroyed if the negroes are rescued from slavery ! The destructive effect of the 
West India climate en our soldiers and sailors, and the loss of revenue involved in the 
kiss of lives, are most carefully concealed ; but the imports and exports, the shipping 
tonnage, and the employment of seamen, are all stated at the utmost rate, as if they were 
to be utterly annihilated by the measure we are pursuing — as if the colonial soil were to' 
become instantly sterile, or there would be nobody to cultivate it, or all demand for 
its produce would cease — as if ships, and men, and capital, and exchange of goods would 
not be called for as much at least when slaves and trade should be made free, as they 
are now that unjust monoply and more detestable bondage are permitted to exiot ! 
And all the while, the statements referred to, sent forth by men of Christian principle 
and tender sensibility, are given to the entire exclusion of the claims which our enslaved 
fellow-subjects have to their liberty, on the ground of moral and religious obliga- 
tion, whatever sacrifices of a pecuniary kind the duty of satisfying these indefeasable claims 
may require. We are found fault with for " unceremoniously" disposing of so much 
property — but what fault is found for " unceremoniously" keeping 800,000 human 
beings in bondage as the instruments of avarice and the victims of oppression ? 



32 

is equivalent to compelling. Our Legislature did not compel the plant- 
ers to engage in the slave system. The planters engaged in it volun- 
tarily. The Legislature only gave them protection. And, therefore, they 
became liable to all the risks which, in these circumstances, such a com- 
mercial enterprise implied, just as they would have become liable to all 
the risks peculiar to any other species of commercial enterprise in which 
they chose to adventure their capital. 

Now, in the second place, they should have known, as they did know, 
that»slave-holding is unchristian and immoral — a violation of the law of 
God. My friend Mr. Combe asserts, in his letter, that ' f this argument 
would be irresistible if man were a perfect being" — by which he means 
to tell us that the planters were ignorant of the truth I have stated re- 
specting the inherent iniquity of making man the property of man. 
Strange ! Admit this reasoning, and every miscreant may plead for im- 
punity and permission to continue in sin — because, forsooth, man is not 
a perfect being ! And truly, if the planters — white men — many of 
whom have been brought up in this country, and have received a liberal 
or Christian education — if they are so imperfect as not to know that it is 
contrary to the divine will to make or to keep their brethren slaves, 
when is it that the slaves themselves will be fit for emancipation by that 
cultivation of their moral and intellectual powers, which Mr. Combe 
asserts to be necessary as a prerequisite to their getting liberty ? 
(Laugh.) Sir, I repeat my proposition, that the planters, when they 
embarked in the slave system, either knew, or ought to have known, 
that they embarked in a guilty speculation, and embarked in it on the 
implied condition, that whenever those whose duty it was, and in whose 
power it was, to emancipate the slaves, chose to put an end to the 
crime, their fictitious rights fell to the ground, and they suffered no 
more than they were supposed to lay their account with, when they first 
intermeddled with the unrighteous traffic. 

In the third place, they have been gaining by that system of slave- 
holding which we wish to abolish. If they have n&t found it profitable, 
why have they continued in it, and why are thev still so desirous of con- 
tinuing in it ? And on the hypothesis, which is a fair one, that the 
thing has been lucrative, then surely it is perfectly equitable to let that 
consideration be a set-off, so far at least as it goes, against the demands 
which they make for compensation. Let them be contented with what 
they have already got, instead of grasping at more. 

But let it be remembered, in the fourth place, that they have been all 
along gaining at our expense. The money which has gone into their 
pockets has been taken out of ours. We have been subjected to a kind 
of poll-tax to uphold their iniquitous system. In bounties for the su- 
gars which they raise, and in protecting duties on the East India sugar, 
which for their sake is not allowed to come into the market on equal 
terms, we pay about a million and a half every year. And this gives 
L.800 or L.900 per annum to each slave-holding sugar-planter ; some 
get more, some get less, but that is the average ! We must not, how- 
ever, forget to add to this the taxes which are levied from us to afford 
them protection, and which amount to no less an annual sum than above 
L.2,000,000. Really, Sir, if compensation is at all due, it is due to us, 
and not to the slave-holders. But, besides this, it is absurd to talk of 



33 

their right to compensation, when our Legislature may, without any act 
of emancipation whatever, but simply by ceasing to tax this country for 
their support and aggrandizement, render their slave property, as they 
call it, utterly useless. Our Parliament has only to withdraw that 
bounty, to repeal those protecting duties, and to reduce those naval and 
military establishments, which are employed for upholding the edifice 
of guilt and inhumanity that has been erected in the slave colonies, 
and it must tumble into ruins. And do not moral rectitude and sound 
jK>licy declare, that it would be better for all parties simply to emanci- 
pate the slaves, and make the necessary arrangements for rendering that 
deed at once safe and efficacious ? If this be not acceded to by the 
planters; they have no right to any farther indulgence. We are 
called upon to petition — and Parliament are bound by every sacred 
obligation, and, if they are dutiful representatives, they will not fail 
to listen to us, when we ask them, for relief from the whole of that odious 
burden of taxation which is laid upon us, to the effect of oppressing a 
multitude of our fellow-subjects, and bearing us down with an accumu- 
lating load of national guilt. To talk of compensation, in these cir- 
cumstances, I can scarcely regard in any other light than that of an in- 
sult. 

Sir, I must add to this, that the slave-holders have long known of the 
intention — the determination of this country to abolish slavery. It has 
been told to them, and impressed upon them, in language that they could 
neither misapprehend nor forget. And have they been preparing for 
such a consummation ? Not in the very least degree. They have ob- 
stinately repelled all advice, and resisted all authority, on this point. 
And if from this cause they shall sustain any damage, whose fault is it? 
It is all and exclusively their own. And, consequently, to grant them 
compensation, would be to reward their rebellion and perverseness. 

I have to argue still farther, that this plea for compensation is not in 
accordance with what has been deemed right, or with what has been ac- 
tually done, in analogous cases. When the slave trade was put an end 
to by legislative enactment, was any compensation asked or given, 
though many had embarked hundreds of thousands of pounds in the 
aboaiinable commerce, and though the ships, being built for that pecu- 
liar service, were almost useless for any other ? No, Sir. At one period 
the colliers in this country were all in a state of slavery. The Legislature 
at length set them free. Did their masters solicit, or did they obtain, 
any compensation ? No, Sir. In neither of these cases was compensation 
ever mooted. In both of them the persons who were deprived of their 
property — I use the word from courtesy — had enjoyed protection and 
encouragement from the Legislature of the country, and might have 
used that as an argument in their own behalf. But nothing of the kind 
was attempted. And why, I ask, should any compensation be insisted 
on in the case of the slave-holder now, whose reason for claiming that 
species of redress is not a whit stronger than that which might have 
been employed in either of the cases I have mentioned? {Cheers.) 

If compensation is still proposed as a sine qua noil, I appear in name 
of the slave, who is surely the most aggrieved party in this case, and is 
entitled to compensation before all others. And I say to the Legisla~ 



34 

ture, " You cannot compensate me for the wrongs which the planters 
have inflicted upon me, with your countenance, and under your protec- 
tion. These wrongs are beyond calculation. But, with a moderation which 
I have not experienced, I only ask you to emancipate me, and to give me 
the means of rendering my liberty available for my prosperity and hap- 
piness." And' I say to the planters, " You owe me a debt which you can- 
not reckon, and which you cannot pay. The injuries I have endured 
in soul and body at your hand cannot be atoned for by all the treasures 
you possess. But I ask nothing more than this, that you do not oppose 
the scheme of mercy which my friends in Britain are devising in my 
favour, — that you ask no compensation from them as the price of my 
deliverance,— and that you willingly co-operate with them in undoing 
my heavy burden, and in providing for my temporal welfare, and my 
moral improvement." Now, Sir, if the Legislature and the planters 
shall turn a deaf ear to such appeals as these, then I must say that 
there is to be as much injustice in the deliverance as there was in the 
bondage itself, — and I must return to my demand for compensation to 
the slave, as having the prior right to it. And after you have fully 
compensated him for the toils, and the stripes, and the debasement, 
and the unnumbered evils, with which he has been iniquitously visited, 
I ask what will be left in your coffers for his guilty and undeserving op- 
pressors ? 

On this point, Sir, I have to observe, in the last place, that compen- 
sation is a fair and legitimate demand, only if loss be sustained. But 
according to our view of the effects of emancipation, not only will there 
be no loss to the planters, but they will be unspeakable gainers in safe- 
ty, in comfort, in revenue. This we think demonstrable from all that 
is known of the comparative value of slave and of free labour, and of 
all the advantages that accompany the relationship of master and ser- 
vant, as contrasted with the dangers and evils that are inseparable from 
the unhallowed connection of tyrant and slave. 

These, Sir, are my sentiments with regard to compensation. But 
you will observe, that in the petition which our Committee proposes to 
.send to Parliament, we have not introduced a word upon that subject. 
We do agree in objecting to it as a preliminary to abolition. We 
hold that there must be loss experienced, and clearly made out to have 
been sustained, before any thing like damages can be thought of or 
awarded. When the period arrives for ascertaining that point, it will 
be considered, and perhaps we may find it necessary to meet and peti- 
tion in reference to it. {Cheers.) But, in the mean time, we can con- 
ceive some cases in which considerations of humanity to helpless indivi* 
duals — to widows, to minors, &c, would dictate a liberal treatment. 
And we do not wish the Legislature to shut its doors against any appli- 
cations for redress. Let every one have free access there, and let the 
requests of every one meet with a patient hearing. Only let us have 
the abolition of slavery out and out, as that which necessarily takes pre- 
cedence of all measures that can be suggested by its supposed effect 
<m the fortunes of those whose own misconduct has led to it. And 
sure I am, Sir, that doing justice to the slaves is the best guarantee 
that can be given for doing justice to the planters. (Applause.) 

4 



35 

And equally sure I am, that the gross partiality hitherto shown to that 
body by our parliament and our government, afford security enough that 
their claims, whenever they are preferred, will not be rashly or wrong- 
ously rejected. {Cheering.) 

There is yet one topic remaining, which I must touch upon, though 
I do it with great reluctance ; but I could not do my duty to myself, 
nor to the great cause we have met to promote, were I to pass it over 
without particular notice. In the course of some remarks which I made 
at the late meeting, when proposing an amendment on the resolutions, 
I made use of the word bloodshed. I was immediately, and without any 
attention being paid to the way in which I introduced my observations, 
rudely assailed, and publicly accused, as one reckless of the shedding of 
blood. This is a charge, Sir, which I then declared, and now again de- 
clare, to be altogether unfounded. {Hear, hear.) And I must say, 
the charge came with a bad grace indeed, from the gentleman who 
made it,* considering that, but a few weeks before, he had presided at 
a meeting of the citizens of Edinburgh, assembled to congratulate the 
French people on their brave and heroic resistance to oppression on the 
part of their rulers, and on their attainment of those great political 
rights which they wrested from the hand of the tyrant, although these 
were acquired at the expense of 8000 human lives sacrificed in the 
course of that short and glorious struggle for liberty. {Great cheering.) 
And am I to be censured, rebuked, put down, reprobated as heedless of 
massacre, because I made the supposition that some blood might be spilt 
in emancipating 800,000 of our fellow-men, — yes, our fellow- subjects 
too, in the British colonies. After all, Sir, it was not I who made the 
supposition. It has been always advanced and pressed by the opponents 
of emancipation, and has been even thrown in our teeth by the advo- 
cates of gradual abolition, in whose name the Lord Provost spoke, not 
so much in the way of a mere supposition, as in that of a certainty, 
which they think forms a valid objection to our plan. I took up the 
objection as I found it, which I was both entitled and bound to do, and 
was using my best endeavour to repel it as a groundless and imaginary one. 
I distinctly stated — I called on the meeting to mark me when I stated — 
that for my own part I had not the slightest apprehension that any such 
consequences, as our opponents professed to dread, would ever ensue ; 
but I added, that if circumstances did render it necessary, I was not one 
of those who would say that we ought not to emancipate 800,000 human 
beings from otherwise hopeless bondage, merely because some blood 
might be shed in accomplishing that achievement of moral justice and 
Christian humanity. Alas ! that we should be told in this our classical 
metropolis, and in this our enlightened day, that liberty is not to be as- 
pired after, and not to be received even by slaves, unless the acquisition 
can be made with the absolute certainty of that acquisition being bloodless. 
I ask, Sir, in what region of the globe, and in what period of the world, 
it ever happened that any revolution in which despots were humbled, and 
the rights of the people were regained, without the risk at least of some 
such sacrifice as that which has excited so great a horror in our anti-abo- 
litionists, and in our advocates for gradualism ? And are we to be as- 

* The Lord Provost of Edinburgh, who was Chairman of the meeting. 



36 

sailed by all this sentimentalism, while we have yet fresh in our memo- 
ry the rejoicings that took place among us — and none rejoiced more 
heartily or loudly than the gentlemen who have now become so tender 
hearted — when the armies of this country withstood the despot of 
Europe in a series of bloody battles, and at last overthrew him in that 
bloodiest of all the bloody fields that we fought for our independence 
— the field of Waterloo? {Immense applause.) Sir, I again repel 
the charge so unworthily brought against me ; and maintain, that no- 
thing but personal malignity, and an utter disregard of truth and can- 
dour, could have influenced those who afterwards deliberately and in 
print loaded me with such vile misrepresentations. ( Cheers, and 
some hissing.) Gentlemen may hiss as they please ; but so far from 
pleading guilty either to the feeling or to the language imputed to 
me, I have from the first maintained that no such disastrous effects as 
those conjectured or anticipated by our opponents were in the very 
least degree likely to happen. On the contrary, Sir, if any such 
events happen, they will be occasioned by the delay that we deprecate, 
and are endeavouring to prevent. (Cheers.). Think you, Sir, that de- 
liverance will not come ere long to that multitude of our fellow-creatures, 
who are groaning beneath the yoke of intolerable bondage, in our colo- 
nial dependencies ? Yes, deliverance for them will be achieved ; and 
if our Legislature will not make haste to do what it can so easily 
and safely do, and what every principle of justice and every max- 
im of expediency calls upon it to do, — emancipate them without loss 
of time, by its own authority, and with its own arm, their deliverance 
will come with a terrible vengeance on those who are now the chief and 
the guilty cause of its being refused. 

But if our rulers and legislators will undertake to emancipate the slaves, 
and do it as it ought to be done, immediately, I beg those who set them- 
selves against such a measure, to point out the danger, and to prove it. 
The onus lies upon them. And what evidence do they give us? Where is 
it to be found ? In what circumstances shall we discover it ? From what 
principles and probabilities shall we infer it ? We must not have mere 
hypothesis — mere allegations — mere fancied horrors, dressed up in fright- 
ful language. We must have proof to substantiate, in some good mea- 
sure, their theory of rebellion, warfare, and blood. If any such thing 
exists, let them produce it. Sure am I, it is not in the conduct which 
the slaves have hitherto maintained. Notwithstanding all that these 
poor beings have suffered from the exactions and ruthlessness of their 
oppressors, how seldom has any case of insurrection occurred, and how 
easily have all such tumults been put down ! And while we may expect 
a more cheerful submission after they are made free, than can be looked 
for so long as they are in cruel bondage, the same strength that has 
heretofore coerced them remains to coerce them still. We are told, in- 
deed, to look to Hayti as furnishing an example of the horrors that 
would be realized in our colonies, if the slaves were immediately set 
free. But it appears to me that the case of Hayti, so far from being an 
instance in favour of the alarmists, is an instance that may be confi- 
dently appealed to in support of the more quiet expectations which we 
entertain of the result. The disturbances in that island, the insubor- 
dination and bloodshed which prevailed in it, were owing to the white 



37 

men, who introduced the revolutionary principles of France, liberated 
the slaves to serve their own ambitious or revengeful purposes, and in- 
stigated them to the atrocities that were committed. But when the 
black population were left to themselves, they at length settled down into 
social order and regular government. Look at the Haytians as thev are 
now, and have been for many years, and you see a peaceable, industrious, 
prosperous, and, as far as can be in their circumstances, a happy as well 
as independent community ! (Hear, hear.} 

It is quite absurd and delusive to say that eight hundred thousand 
slaves are to be let loose at once upon the white population. This is 
calculated to alarm the ignorant and the timid ; but it is in reality a gross 
mistatement. The slaves are not to be let loose upon their masters. 
They are merely to be made free, and are still to be subject to that le- 
gal and adequate control which it is the duty of our government to im- 
pose upon all its subjects, in every part of the British dominions, and 
which it will especially exercise where the necessity for it is great and 
pressing. Then from the 800,000 it is fair to subtract the half as con- 
sisting of females, and whom we cannot surely dread as very formidable 
in their power of resisting the constituted authorities or the military 
force. Still further, subtract the male children under twelve years of age, 
who may be classed with the women as to their inability to frighten 
or annoy either the planters or his Majesty's troops. Yet again, subtract 
all who are aged and sickly, or of docile disposition and submissive ha- 
bits, attached to the masters that have been kind and merciful to them, 
and who would either not engage in revolt, or assist in quelling it. 
Once more, subtract that portion who have, in spite of all obstructions, 
imbibed the principles and spirit of Christianity, who would emplov 
their influence and their efforts to prevent every sort of rapine, and to give 
to the abolition its full moral effect — and whom, though brethren in 
Christ Jesus, your gradualists would consign to unrequited toil, to un- 
deserved suffering, to cruel bondage, during the remainder of their lives. 
Make all these deductions, and of the 800,000 slaves, who, in the mass, 
are so apt to strike people's minds with terror, you will leave a number 
that the planters and the Government should be ashamed to confess 
that they could not cope with, or preserve in due submission and in 
tranquillity — especially as they happen to be in numerous divisions, se- 
parated from each other by sea, and therefore unable to concentrate their 
hostility, or to unite their efforts, if they should choose to rebel. 

I request the meeting now to turn their attention to the state of the 
free black population, which forms an important element, though too 
little heeded, in the argument I am now addressing to you. The grand 
distinction in the colonies is between the white people and the people of 
colour. The white people treat all the people of colour with perfect 
contempt. And the latter have every reason to feel and show resent- 
ment to the former. But those of them who are free have been guilty 
of no attempts to overturn a dominion, which they must every day feel 
to be of the most galling kind. And think not that it is on account of 
their being less considerable in number. On the contrary, the 
white people, in the Crown and Chartered Colonies, are only 119,000, 
whereas the free blacks amount to no fewer than 144,000. But, Sir, 



38 

in the character and condition of the free blacks you will find a solu- 
tion of the fact, and you will find moreover, an additional security 
against all the evils which have been so eagerly pressed upon us, 
as likely to result from an immediate and total abolition. I have 
told you their number, 144,000. Think next of their wealth. That 
is allowed to be very great. In some places their opulence rivals 
or surpasses that of the white people. And thus they have a stake 
in the country which will make them more than ordinarily anxious 
to repress even the beginnings of any tumult, from which they could 
look for nothing but the plunder and destruction of their property. 
They are more than opulent : many of them are remarkably intelligent, 
men of good education, of liberal ideas, conversant with the government 
of states, and with whatever contributes to the public weal. They have 
even established newspapers, in which they discuss the very question of 
the abolition of slavery, and advocate the measure both with zeal and ta- 
lent, and in other respects display an extent of knowledge, a power of 
reasoning, and a tone of moral and religious feeling, which might be trans- 
ferred with considerable advantage into a certain portion of the news- 
paper press of Edinburgh. ( Cheers and laughter.) Besides this, the free 
blacks are distinguished by their loyalty, and their decided attachment 
to the mother country — so much so, that when in consequence of the 
interference of our government the white colonists threatened to rebel, 
they were told through the medium of the Journals I have alluded to, 
that if they did so, they might be assured that they would be opposed 
by the free blacks, and by all the coloured population to a man, in de- 
fence of British sovereignty. {Great applause. ) And in addition to their 
loyalty, consider their general good conduct. I do not holdthemout as free 
from many and great vices. They retain, in some instances, the greatest 
of all vices, that of keeping slaves. This, however, arises, in a great 
measure, it is probable, from the external circumstances in which they 
find themselves, by reason of the general system that prevails around 
them. And it augurs well for their being ready to renounce that abomi- 
nable nuisance, that their newspapers plead for emancipation,* and that 
they are superior to the white population as to public morals. By a 
return to the House of Commons of the number of criminal prosecutions 
in Jamaica, we perceive that the criminal prosecutions of the whites 
were to those of the free blacks, in the proportion of three to one. (Great 
cheering.) Nay, but, my friends, you have only got one half of the in- 
teresting fact : for I have to add that the white population is to that of 
the free blacks nearly as one to three—- there being of free blacks 40,000 
and of whites only 15,000 ! (Continued cheering.) Taking into account 
the circumstances I have just stated respecting the free blacks — their 
number, their wealth, their loyalty, their general character, every one 
must see that we may safely look to that portion of the West India 
community as standing between the colonists and all danger that may 

* It has been proposed in Jamaica, to form a Society there, for the Abolition of 
Negro Slavery ; the proposal seems to be favourably entertained ; and there can be 
little doubt that such an Institution, if wisely conducted, will be productive of most 
beneficial effects. 



39 

be apprehended from the emancipation of the slaves ; and coupling this 
with the other particulars to which 1 formerly adverted, it does appear 
to me that we have the amplest security for that measure, how soon so- 
ever it may be carried, being as bloodless and peaceable as our hearts 
could desire. I have no fear — no, not the shadow of it, that any of 
the dreaded mischiefs will ensue from the course of proceeding that 
we are pressing on the Legislature. In my conscience I deem them 
all chimerical, and got up chiefly for the purpose of deterring us from 
insisting on that act of simple but imperative justice which we call upon 
the British Parliament to perform. (Applause.) 

But if you push me, and still urge the argument of insurrection and 
bloodshed, for which you are far more indebted to fancy than to fact, 
as I have shown you, then I say, be it so. I repeat that maxim, taken 
from a heathen book, but pervading the whole Book of God, Fiat justitia 
— mat caelum. Righteousness, Sir, is the pillar of the universe. Break 
down that pillar, and the universe falls into ruin and desolation. But 
preserve it, and though the fair fabric may sustain partial dilapidations, it 
may be rebuilt and repaired — it will be rebuilt, and repaired, and restored 
to all its pristine strength, and magnificence, and beauty. (Cheering.) 
If there must be violence, let it even come, for it will soon pass 
away — let it come and rage its little hour, since it is to be succeeded by 
lasting freedom, and prosperity, and happiness. (Cheering.) Give me 
the hurricane rather than the pestilence. Give me the hurricane, with 
its thunder, and its lightning, and its tempest ; — give me the hurricane, 
■with its partial and temporary devastations, awful though they be ; — give 
me the hurricane, with its purifying, healthful, salutary effects ; — give 
me that hurricane, infinitely rather than the noisome pestilence, whose 
path is never crossed, whose silence is never disturbed, whose progress 
is never arrested, by one sweeping blast from the heavens ; which walks 
peacefully and sullenly through the length and breadth of the land, 
breathing poison into every heart, and carrying havoc into every home, 
enervating all that is strong, defacing all that is beautiful, and cast- 
ing its blight over the fairest and happiest scenes of human life — and 
which, from day to day, and from year to year, with intolerant and in- 
terminable malignity, sends its thousands and its tens of thousands of 
hapless victims into the ever-yawning and never- satisfied grave ! 

(Cheering and waving of hats, for several minutes, followed, the con- 
clusion of' Dr. Thomson's speech, which lasted for about two hours and 
a half.) 



APPENDIX. 



At the meeting which took place on Friday, the 8th October, and at which 
Dr. Thomson moved his amendment on the resolutions that were brought 
forward, he objected to the clause which proposed that all the children 
born on and after a particular day (January 1, 1831,) should be declar- 
ed free. This clause, the Committee on the platform, acquiescing in 
his objection, agreed to omit. And as it was not referred to in the peti- 
tion which he submitted to the meeting of the 19th October, he did not 
think it necessary to discuss that part of the subject. It may be useful, 
however, to state here the grounds on which such an arrangement ap- 
peared to him inadmissible. 

In the first place, it amounts to an indirect sanction of the continued 
slavery of all who are now alive, and of all who may be born before the 
period fixed upon. This is a renunciation of the great moral principles 
upon which the demand for abolition proceeds. It consigns more than 
800,000 human beings to bondage and oppression, while their title to 
freedom is both indisputable and acknowledged. And it is not merely 
an inconsistency on the part of the petitioners, and a violation of the 
duty which they owe to such a multitude of their fellow-men, but it 
weakens or surrenders the great argument by which they enforce their 
application for the extinction of colonial slavery. 

Besides, it is vain to expect that the planters will acquiesce in such a 
prospective measure, any more than in the liberation of the existing 
slaves, for the progeny of the existing slaves must be considered by them 
as much a part of their property as these slaves themselves. And they 
would regard it equally unjust to deprive them of what is hereafter to be 
produced from their own slave stock, as it would be to deprive a farmer, 
by an anticipating law, of all the foals and of all the calves that might 
be produced in his stable and in his cow-house, after a given specified 
date. 

We must be true to our own maxims, which are taken from the word 
of God ; and ask for all that we are entitled to have on the ground of 
justice and humanity, and be contented with nothing less. 

In the second place, the plan objected to is not merely an acquiescence 
in the continuance of crime, it is a violation of the best feelings of our 



41 

nature. For, let any man but reflect on the circumstance of children 
being born to slavery, merely because they came into the world the last 
hour of December 1830, instead of the first hour of January J, 1831 — 
and of children in the same family, brothers and sisters — some of them 
destined to bondage for life, and others gifted with freedom, for no other 
reason than that the former were born before, and the latter after, a 
particular day of a particular year — and of parents being unjustly and 
inhumanly flogged in the very sight of their offspring arbitrarily made 
free, while they are as arbitrarily kept slaves — let any man but reflect 
on these things, and unless the sensibilities of his heart be paralysed even 
to deadness, he must surely revolt at such a cruel and cold blooded al- 
lotment in the fortune of those little ones, and be satisfied with nothing 
short of the emancipation of the whole community, without a single ex- 
ception. 

in the third place, supposing all children born after January 1, 1831 , 
were declared free, how are they to be educated ? That they may be pre- 
pared for the enjoyment of that liberty with which you have invested 
them, they must undergo a particular and appropriate training. So say 
the gradualists. Very well ; under whom are they to get this train- 
ing ? Are they to be separated from their parents ? Is that dearest of 
natural ties to be broken asunder ? Is this necessary for your plan ? And 
are not you thus endeavouring to cure one species of wickedness by the 
instrumentality of another 1 But if they are to be left with their parents 
and brought up under their care, then either they will be imbued with 
the faults and degeneracies that are characteristic of slavery, and con- 
sequently be as unfit for freedom as those who have not been disenthral- 
led ; or they will be well nurtured and well instructed by their parents, 
and this implies a confession that their parents themselves are suffici- 
ently prepared for liberty, and that there is no good reason for with- 
holding from them, the boon that is bestowed upon their children. 

Whatever view, in short, we take of the question, the prospective plan 
is full of difficulty or contradictions, and we are made more sensible than 
ever that there is nothing left for us, but to take the consistent, honest, 
uncompromising course of demanding the abolition of slavery with re- 
spect to the present, as well as to every future generation of the negroes 
in our colonies. 

In 1792, Mr. Dundas proposed that the slave-trade should cease in 
] S00, and also that every negro child born after that period in the West 
Indies should be free. To this proposal, Mr. Wilberforce and his friends 
resolutely objected. They did so on religious and moral grounds — 
which that distinguished friend of humanity satisfactorily explained at 
the last meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society in London. It was well 
that the abolitionists had the wisdom and the fortitude, to refuse the in- 
sidious boon which was offered to them by Mr. Dundas. Had they ac- 
cepted of it, they would not only have forfeited the reputation which 
they had acquired by acting upon steady, fixed, immutable principles, 
but pretexts would have been found for withdrawing the concessions that 
had been made merely to avoid incessant warfare on such a topic ; 
at any rate, the whole tone of the argument for abolishing the trade and 
emancipating the slaves, would have been lowered in a lamentable de- 

G 



42 

gree ; and, in all probability, the prospect of achieving the latter of these 
objects, would at this moment have been more obscure and more re- 
mote than it appears to be even amidst all the discouragements we are 
experiencing. Let us not do evil that good may come. Let us keep 
upon the high ground which we occupy. Our triumph may not, for that 
reason, be so speedy, though in this respect also we have good hope ; 
but it will be more certain, and when it does come, it will be more com- 
plete, more gratifying, more honourable, and more permanent. 



FINIS. 



EDINBURGH : 
PRINTED BY A. BALFOUR AMD CO. NIDD11Y STREET- 



