Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/sermononsubjectoOOprie 



nc> % 



SERMON 

ON THE SUBJF.CT OF 

THE SLAVE TR A D E5 

DELIVERED TO A SOCIETY OF 

PROTESTANT DISSENTERS, 

AT T H fe 

NEW MEETING, in BIRMINGHAM; 

AND PUBLISHED AT THEIR REQUEST* 



By JOSEPH PRIESTLEY, LL.D. F.R.S, 



— And hath made of one Hood all nations of men 
to dwSll on alJ the face of the earth. 

Acts xvii. a.6* 



BIRMINGHAM, 
Printed for. the author, by pearson and rolia3ok.j 

ANO S01B BV J. JO'UNSONj NO. ']%, 5T. PAUl's CEU&CB-S ARD, S-QWDftN, 
MDCCLXXXVIII. 

PRIGS ONE SHILLING.] 



u 






] 

T H E 



P R E FA 


C 


ijrnaic 

E • 


. '■;, 







•. ■ 

IPubiim this difcourfe not only in com- 
pliancy with the requeft of a fociety of 
chriftians whom I think myfqlf happy in 
every opportunity of obliging, but alfo 
becaufe I; thought that fame of the argu- 
ments on which I have, infixed had not 
been fflfBciently urged by other writers on 
the famefubjecl:, and at the fame time to 
evince my readinefs to join with chriftians 
of all denominations in what appears to me 
to be right and juft. 

With the greateft fatisfaction mould I 
always go with the multitude ^ if a regard to 
the facred rights of trufh\$\& not, on fome 
occafions, forbid it. Happy it is, however, 
that there are fome cafes in which almoil 
all who are truly confcientious, and who 

A 2 s feel 



$ P k E F A G E„ 

feei the influence of humane and chnftiari 

fentimerits, will concur. May this beget a 

perfuafion, that we may be equally con- 

fcientious, and moved by a regard to what 

WelleerrQto b|\ the genuine inte'refts' of 

chriftianity, in thofe things on which we 

differ 3 and that though different interefts 

and connexions may, unknown- to durfel ves ', 

give us ' different fentiment'sj 1 • view$V ; .ana 

purfuits l | the time 1 will come when this 

undue influence will ceafe* ariB^e mall-be 

able calmly to trace the tr"iie*fduftie : and 

erfecls of it. Arid as this is only the infancy 

bif our being, it may be prefumedj that 

What we obferv"e'arM experience h-erbj 1 may 

be an ufeful lefloii to us in our future- pro-* 
fs ■■'''.. ' " 

With refpec! to the melancholy fcene 
that is now before us, we muft content our^ 
felves with faying, that the ways of God are 
a great deep, and his ■ footjieps in the mighty 
waters, not to be traced by us, at leaft at 
prefent. But we are fufficiently authorized 
" to add, that thou A l clouds and " darhnefs are 
~ 5 round 



PREFACE. v 

round about him, righteoufnefs and judgment 
are ever the habitation of his throne* Unlefs 
this maxim be deeply imprefTed upon our 
minds, and made familiar to us by frequent 
meditation, we mufl, if we reflect at all, 
be ftaggered with a view of the vices, as 
well as the miferies, which it feems wife 
and right in Divine Providence to permit 
on this wide theatre of the world. 

As we cannot fay what evils are ufeful in 
the general plan, or to what height they 
may fafely and ufefully rife (this being far 
above our comprehenfion) it cannot be our 
duty to imitate the Divine Being in this 
part of his conduct. But as we are fatisfied 
that all evil is ultimately fubfervient to 
good, and that it is the intention of Provi- 
dence finally to exterminate all evil^ in this 
mofl delightful employment we may, and 
ought, as his own children, to act like God ; 
exerting ourfelves, by every means in our 
power, to remove the prejudices, correct 
the errors, cure' the vices, and relieve the 
diftrefjes, of our fellow creatures. In ex^ 
b ertions 



VI 



PREFACE. 



ertions of this kind, our motives are pure, 
pious, and benevolent. We feel as we are 
are confcious we ought to do ; and with 
whatever fuccefs it may pleafeGod to crown 
our endeavours, we Oiall enjoy the fatif- 
faction of having endeavoured, and our labour 
will not wholly be in vain. 

In this view it mud give every good man 
an unfpeakable pleafure to fee the general 
intereft that is now taken in behalf of the 
Negro flaves. It makes us think better of 
our countrymen, and of mankind. Hi as 
fome think of the world, and of the human 
race, there are in it many noble characters j 
and if it was the object of the great fcheme 
of Providence, as no doubt it was, to form 
fuch characters, the end of all we fee, and 
fometimes complain of, has been com- 
pletely anfvvered; and if fcenes of difficulty 
and diflrefs have, in any meafure, contri- 
buted to form fuch characters, as undoubt- 
edly they have, we mufl conclude that, 
mocking as they appear to us, they have 
riot been introduced into the fyftero in vain, 

booking 



PREFACE. v ii 

Looking at the tree, we may think it ill— 
fhaped, and difgufting; but confidering the 
fruit, we mufl approve and admire it. 

I alfo confider the exertions that are now 
making with us, and which are likely to be 
adopted in other chriftian countries, as an 
honour to chrijlianity. For no fuch gener- 
ous fentiments were ever found, and no fuch 
exertions were ever made, by heathens. 
We have jufter ideas of the dignity of 
human nature, and of the common rights 
of humanity, than heathens ever had. At 
the fame time that we juftly think that 
every man is a great and exalted being (/. e. 
capable of becoming fuch) we confider all 
diftinclions among men as temporary, cal- 
culated for the ultimate benefit of all; and 
confequently that it is for the intereft of the 
loweft orders, as well as of the higheft, that 
fuch a fubordination mould fubfift. But 
with this perfuafion all chriftian matters will 
refpect and love their fervants and depen- 
dants, and will think it their duty to make 
their fituation as eafy and happy as poffible ; 
b 2 confidering 



viii PREFACE. 

confidering them as brothers, and equals, iii 
one, and that the mofl important fenfe, while 
they treat them as inferiors in another j and 
as thofe who will even rank above them 
in another ftate, if they acquit themfelves 
better in this* 

Thefe are juft, noble, and elevating 
fentiments, peculiar to believers in re- 
vealed religion ; and- they are common to 
all believers. We find them among papifts, 
as well as protefrants, and among thofe 
who are favoured by civil eftablifhments 
of chriftianity, as welt as thofe that are 
frowned upon by them. And thefe fenti- 
ments will always be found among all 
chriftians in proportion to the attention they 
give to the great truths of our common 
religion ; by which I mean the doctrines of 
a God, of a Providence, and of a future 
Irate. Thefe great truths have the ad- 
vantage of being level to the meaneft ca- 
pacity. A child may understand them. 
And, at the fame time all that the wifeft 
among us can attain to farther, adds but 
2 , little 



PREFACE. h 

little to their practical influence. Let thefe 
confiderations teach the different feels of 
chriftians mutual candour, as reflections on 
the difference of ranks among men mould 
teach us humility and moderation. 

Were we truly fenfible of the irieflimable 
Value of truly chriftian principles, and felt 
the influence of them, all chriftians would 
refpect one another as fuch ; and, compared 
with this great article of agreement, make 
lefs account of thofe in which they differ. 
When I was at Paris, a prieft of the Catholic 
communion, diftinguifhed for his piety and 
benevolence, as well as a tafte for fcience, 
embraced me with tears when he found 
that I uniformly avowed myfelf to be a 
chriftian; faying I was the only perfon he 
had met with, pretending to philofophy, 
who did fo. I told him that I was indeed 
a chriftian, but fuch as he would call a great 
heretic. He replied, " No matter, you 
" are a chriftian." Such magnanimity as 
this, I have no opportunity of fhowing, 
and might not be capable of. For no man 

can 



x P R E F A C E. 

can anfwer for his own feelings and conduct 
in new fituations. There is a degree of 
abhorrence and contempt, with which the 
members of great and old eftabliiliments., 
like that of the church of Rome, are apt 
to regard feclarks, which the fectaries do 
not feel for them. The reafon is, that the 
members of an eflablifliment know much 
lefs of fe&aries than fectaries do of them. 
Thus the Heathens had a much worfe opi- 
nion of chriltians, while they were feclaries, 
than the chriiYians had of them. They 
were confidered in fo defpicable a light by 
many, that it was not thought worth while 
to make any inquiry into the truth of the 
fcandalous reports concerning them. The 
mocking picture that is given pf Turkpins, 
Beghards^ and other denominations of the 
reformed, before the time of Luther, may 
be feen in any ecclefiaftical hiftory. 

How my excellent Parifian friend would 
have felt if he had known the/ull extent of 
my prefent herefy 1 cannot tell. Others, 
however, of his communion are well ap- 
prized 



PREFACE. xi 

prized of it, without thinking the worfe of 
me, in a moral refpec~t, on that account. Of 
fuch men as thefe chriftianity may juflly 
make her boaft. In all, however, we 
muft make allowance for human frailties, 
from which no men, not even the apoftles, 
were exempt. 

With refpect to the fadls mentioned in 
this difcourfe, I can only fay that I was far 
from wifhing to exaggerate any thing -, but 
have taken them from fuch accounts as ap- 
peared to me to be the moft to be depended 
upon ; and as the tracts from which I col- 
lected them are in very common circulation, 
I have no occafion to quote any of them. 
Under humane matters, flaves may, no doubt, 
enjoy a certain degree of happinefs ; but itill 
they are flaves, fubjecl to the wills, and con- 
fequently the caprices, of others ; and there 
is no proper fecuriry from the greateft out- 
rages, but in the protection of law, 

I am happy to hear fince this Difcourfe 
was fent to, the prefs, that one planter, who 
employs a very great number of flaves, has 

* had 



xli F R E F A G E. 

had no occafion to purchafe any frefli ones 
thefe twenty years. This may convince us 
that a floppage of the importation would 
not be a great hardfhip upon the planters in 
general. It would only compel them to 
find their own interefl in treating their Haves 
well, and in favouring their propagation. 

On the other hand, I mufl add that I 
have been informed by a perfon who refided 
in Jamaica, that it is ufual for the Haves, 
after they are purchafed, to fhudder at the 
fight of a fire, or kitchen utenfils, imagin- 
ing that they are to be killed and eaten, till 
older flaves convince them that nothing of 
that kind is intended. What the poor 
creatures mufl fuffer with this idea on their 
minds all the voyage, and the terror it mufl 
imprefs on the country in general, in which 
thoufands who are never taken know they 
are liable to it, is not to be eflimated, and 
for which no good treatment of Haves' can 
compenfate. This is what a brute cannot 
be made to fuffer, and mews how improper 
and unnatural this trafficking with the bun 
man fpscies mufl be, 



W 'hie h of thefe three, thinkefl thou, was neigh- 
bom to him that fell among the thieves ? 
And he faid, he that fiewed mercy unto 
him. Then faid Jefus unto him, Go thoii 

and do likew'fe. 

Luke x. 36, 37. 



I 



My chriftian brethren, 

DO not know whether it be more in the 
chara&er of men, or in that of chriflians,- 
that I mall now take the liberty to addrefs 
you. But if you feel as becomes either* 
you cannot but lympathize with the mifer- 
able and opprelTed of the human race, how 
remote foever they be from yourfelves in 
every other refpecl:. You will coniider all • 
mankind as brethren, and neighbours, inti- 
tled to every good office that it may be in 
your power to render them. As men, and 
as chriitians, obfervant of the instructions 
of our great mafter in my text, we mould 
intereft ourfelves not only for our relations, 
and particular friends - 9 not only for our 
B countrymen ; 



2 A Difcourfe on 

countrymen $ not only for Europeans, but 
for the diftreiled inhabitants of Afia, Africa, 
or America ; and not only for chriftians, 
but for Jews, Mahometans, and Infidels. 
And as v*z ought to feel for our fellow- 
men, we ought, to the utmoir. extent of our 
influence, to exert ourfelves. to relieve their 
diftrefies. 

Does not, then, the cafe of the African 
Negroes, who have long been unjuftly en- 
flaved, and have been made to fuffer num- 
bprlefs miferies, the lean: of which is mere 
fervitude, in our Weft Indies, deferve our 
companion, and loudly call for pur friendly 
interpofition in their favour ? And furely 
they are not the lefs in titled to it becaufe 
their opprefTors are our countrymen, and 
becaufe we have derived, or have imagined 
that we have derived, benefit from their op- 
prefiion. Now, then, that it has pleafed 
God, who, for reafons juft and wife, no 
doubt (becaufe fuch is his character) but 
often unlearchable by us, permits the rife 
and prog re fs of all the evils that we fee and 
lament, has awakened th<£ attention o#many 

in 



r the Slave Tirade. % 

in our nation to this great and growing 
enormity, and to intereft great numbers in 
favour of the unhappy fufFerers; let not us 
be the laft, though we cannot have the ho- 
nour of being the firft, to join heartily in 
the meafures that are now taking for their 
relief; it being propofed to recommend 
their cafe to the confideration of parliament 
the prefent feffton, and the friends of the 
meafure thinking that a general application 
from all parts of the country, and efpecially 
from towns of note like this, will tend to 
promote it, and almoft enfure its fuccefs. 

Thoroughly to intereft you, and to en- 
gage your warmed zeal in the caufe, no- 
thing, my brethren, I am confident, will be 
requiiite, befides ftating the fimple faffs ; 
of the magnitude of which few perfons, 
not perfonally concerned in this traffic of 
the human fpecies, and the treatment to 
which Haves are fubjecl, are fufficiently ap- 
prized. Indeed, had the (hocking fcenes to 
which the attention of the public is now 
invited been generally known before, the 
evil could not have grown to its prefent 
B 2 height, 



4 A Difconrfe on 

height, or have exifted fo long as It has 
done. The feelings of every man would 
have revolted at it, and the fenfe of the na- 
tion (exprelTed, as it would have been, by- 
petitions, and remonftrances) would have 
operated upon the legiflature long before 
this time. Better, however, it is to make 
what amends we can for our paft inatten- 
tion, by now opening our eyes to this great 
evil, than fuffer it to grow to a ftill greater 
magnitude -, which, in the nature of things, 
will always be attended with a greater dif- 
ficulty of redrefs. 

Could the prefent ftate of things have been 
fo much, as imagined at the commencement 
of this traffic, it might have been prevented 
with the greater! eafe, as no body would have 
been interefted in the continuation of it; 
whereas at prefent many will think them- 
fejves injured by the juft and righteous 
me.afur.es that it will be necelfary to take in 
the cafe. But then, if we wait frill longer, 
and the trade be permitted to go on, and 
extend itfelf farther, more perfons will be 
interefted in it ^ they will, of co'urfe, be 

able 



^ 



the Slave Trade, 5 

able to make a greater oppofition to the 
meafure ; and thus the evil, though greater, 
and more juftly complained of, will be more 
difficult to remedy than it is now. 

I mall proceed then to Mate this cafe as 
briefly, and as impartially, as I can, and 
anfwer all the moft important objections 
that I have heard made to the propofed re- 
drefs of the grievance complained of. 

Few of you probably imagine, or will 
readily believe, that, in order to raife our 
fugar, and other Weft-India commodities, 
perhaps half a million of perfons are an- 
nually deftroyed, and in a manner peculiarly 
mocking to humanity. To die by an earth- 
quake, by peftilence, or even by famine, 
would be merciful compared with the man- 
ner in which many of thefe poor wretches 
often perim. All the European plantations 
taken together are faid to require an annual 
fupply of iixty thoufand frefh flavesj but 
thefe are thofe that remain after fo many 
have died in what is called the feafoning, 
before they can be brought to bear the la- 
bour to which they are made to fubmit $ and 
B 3 after 



$ A DifcGurfe on 

after fo many, more have been loft during 
the voyage, owing to the mode of their 
confinement, and ill ufage on board, that it 
is faid not lefs than a hundred thoufand are 
annually exported from Africa. And, fome*' 
fay, that before this ten are deftroyed for 
one that is fecured, and fafely lodged on 
board the mips. Certainly, however, many 
perifli, and many more fuffer very cruelly 
before the mips can have got their proper 
number, and be ready for failing. 

You will afk who are the perfons that 
are reduced to this wretched fervitude. I 
anfwer, fome criminals, whofe offences may 
be fuppofed to deferve jt. But thefe, from 
the nature of things, can only be a few. 
Others are prifoners taften in war. Thofe 
wars, however, are undertaken for the fake 
of making the prifoners, and of difpofing 
of them in this manner. But very many 
are thofe of 'their Own innocent fubjecls, 
whom the tyrannical princes pf the country 
violently feize upon, and fell. Great num- 
bers alfo are continually kidnapped by any 
tjiaf; can furprize and overpower them. And 

thefe 



the Slave Trade* 7 

tlicfe fcenes of horror extend above a thou- 
fand miles within land, for a vail: extent of 
fea coaft. It is faid by fome, that crimes 
and wars together do not now furnim one 
flave in an hundred of thofe that are trans- 
ported to America, they being generally fuch 
as are kidnapped, or fold by their tyrants. 

What thefe poor wretches are made to 
fufFer while they are conducted to fuch a 
diftance, for fuch a purpofe, before they 
reach the mips ; what they fuffer in the 
mips, and in their cruel bondage afterwards, 
may in fome meafure be imagined by us, 
when we confider that thefe men have the 
fame feelings with ourfelves, and conceive 
themfelves to be as unjuflly treated as we 
mould do, if we were violently feized, con- 
veyed away from all our friends, and con- 
fined to hard labour all our lives in Africa. 

In general, it is faid, that in our planta- 
tions Daves are employed fo many hours 
every day, excepting Sundays, in the fervice 
of their matters, that they have only one for 
themfelves, and but little for lleep. For re- 
miflhefs in labour they are feverely beaten, 
B 4 and 



8 A JDifcourfe on 

and for rebellion (as any attempt to reco- 
ver their liberty is called) they are generally 
gibetted alive. The mocking indecencies 
to which the females are fubje&ed during the 
voyage, and afterwards, and the cruel repa- 
ration of the neareft relations and friends, 
hufbands and wives,, parents and children, 
both when they are put on board the fhips, 
and at the place of fale, would be heard with 
horror by all but thofe who are habituated 
to this traffic. 

This bufinefs was begun by the Portu- 
guefe, but the Englifli entered into it (o 
early as the year 15519 though contrary to 
jthe exprefs orders of queen Elizabeth; and 
no Europeans whatever ufe their Haves with 
fo much cruelty as the Englifh. The Spa- 
niards have made excellent regulations in 
their favour, in confequence of which the 
Haves can work out their own freedom; 
and the French government has alfo inter- 
pofed by a code of laws enacted for this very 
purpofe. But the Haves belonging to the 
Englifli are almoft wholly left to the mercy 
of their maflers ; and the annual confump- 

tion 



the Slave Trade. g 

tion of them is itfelf a proof of the moft 
cruel ufage. For with good treatment even 
flaves will increafe, as the Ifraelites did in 
Egypt, and as tbefe very negroes do where 
their mafters are men of fenfe and humanity. 
But for this they have no obligation to our 
laws. 

Coniidering how long this abominable 
traffic has fublifted, furely, my brethren, it 
is high time to put an end to it. Hither- 
to the nation in general has been but little 
apprized of the enormity and extent of this 
evil; and thofe who have been intereilied in 
the continuance and extenfion of- it have 
likewife been interefted to conceal the hor- 
rid circumftances attending it. Confe- 
quently, hitherto, the national guilt has 
been lefs than it other wife would have been 
in conniving at it. But now that the eyes 
of the nation in general are in a great mea- 
fure opened to it, and in the way of being 
flill more fo, the national guilt will cer- 
tainly be greater than ever, if an immediate 
flop be not put to a fpecies of iniquity 
i which 



io A Difcourfe on 

which calls fo loud for the vengeance of 
heaven. 

It may be faid that the particulars I have 
recited are only the abufes of this traffic, and 
not neceffarily attendant upon it, and that 
thofe only are to be blamed who are con- 
cerned in them. But this is a cafe in which 
all that is worth retaining of the thing itfelf 
is the abufe of it. For can you believe 
that the proper criminals of a part of the 
African coaft, or of the whole country of 
Africa, or indeed of the world (thofe whofe 
crimes could, by any equitable conftruclion, 
be deemed worthy of fo fevere a punish- 
ment) fupply our iflands with fixty thou- 
fand flaves annually, befides more than an 
equal number, that peridi in various ways be- 
fore they can be brought to a ftate of fettled 
ufeful fervitude. Small, indeed, would be 
the flock, and little would it be worth the 
while of the planters to encourage this traffic, 
if it procured them only the criminals of 
Africa, fuch as it would be for the intereft of 
that country to have banifhed from it. And 

all 



the Slave Trade. 1 1 

all the reft are innocent men, women, and 
children, unjuftly deprived of their liberty, 
and condemned to the moil cruel bondage, 
to gratify the avarice of their brutim princes, 
and of our traders and planters. But no lefs 
guilty are we ourfelves, who, in order to 
have our fugars, and other Weil-India 
commodities, a little cheaper (though this 
will be found to be a miftake) connive at, 
and encourage, thefe iniquitous proceedings. 
It is not, therefore, the abufe of a trade, but 
the trade itfelf, that muft be abolifhed, if 
any good be done in the cafe. 

It is in vain for the country in general, or 
ourfelves as a part of it, to pretend inno- 
cence^ and leave all the guilt upon thofe 
who are immediately concerned in this 
traffic. For while it is not prohibited 
by public authority, it will of courfe be 
continued; and you muft be fenflble that 
it cannot be continued without the mock- 
ing abufes I have mentioned. The trade 
itfelf, and the abufe of it, are fo connected, 
that to authorize the one is to authorize the 
Gtlier alfo. And it \$ m univerfal maxim ? that 

he 



I a A Difcourje on 

be who makes himfelf refponfible for any 
meafure whatever, is refponfible for all that 
he believes will be the adlual confequences 
of that meafure, whether, ftricjtly fpeaking* 
they be the necejfary confequences of it or 
not. 

AH the diftrefs, therefore, that is occa- 
fioned in the country of Africa by the abufe 
of power, and the frequent wars in order to 
procure flaves; all the injuftice continually 
exercifed by private individuals to trapan 
others for that purpofej all the barbarities 
exercifed towards the poor wretches fo fe- 
cured, in forcing them on board the mips, 
in keeping them there, and in their fervitude 
afterwards; nay all the vices in which the 
ilaves are indulged*, all the cruelties exer- 
cifed by them, in their attempts to recover 
their liberty, and the greater cruelties with 
which fuch attempts are always punifhed, 
will be laid to the account of the people of 
this country in general, fo long as, knowing 

* See a note in the excellent fermon preached before the 
fociety for the propagation of the gofpel in foreign parts by 
the prefent Bifhop of London, p. ir, fmall edition. 

this 



the Slave Trade, i 3 

this to be the aBnalJiate of things, we fuiFer 
it to proceed. Both the guilt of the oppref- 
fors, and the mifery of the oppreffed, will 
be equally laid at our door. 

This guilt will lie the heaviefl:, no 
doubt, upon minifters of ftate, and all thofe 
who have the greateft influence in public 
meaiures - y but a due proportion of it will 
be imputed to all thofe who do not exert 
whatever influence they may have to pre- 
vent, it -, which includes all who do not pe-» 
tition and remoniirate on the fubjecl:. For 
fo much is what every man may do. This 
is the leafl we can do to wafh our hands, and 
aflert our innocence. 

Some will farther fay, that there is no- 
thing criminal mfervitude itfelf, that it has 
been the practice of all nations, and all ages ; 
that it was unqueftionably allowed in the 
Old Teftament, and that, though frequent 
mention, is made of flaves, chriilians and 
others, in the New Tefkment, there is not 
even there any cenfure of the practice. 

Admitting this, both natural and revealed 
religion inculcate an humane and equitable 

treatment 



14 A Dtfcourfe on 

treatment of all that come under our powers 
We are ftill under obligation to do to others 
as we would that they fhould do to us, in the 
fame circumitances. And this ruleofuni-^ 
verfal juflice and equity is fhamefully vio- 
lated in our prefent practice. Beiides, nei- 
ther reafon nor the feriptures will authorife 
us to deprive of liberty, thofe whofe own 
crimes, or at leaftthofe of their anceftors, have 
not forfeited it; and this will go but a very 
little way to vindicate the mocking trans- 
actions that have been recited. 

Moreover, we fee reafon enough to infer 
that feveral cuftoms were permitted in the 
early ages of mankind, fuch as polygamy, 
and divorces, which are no longer lawful; 
and though there is not in the New Testa- 
ment any exprefs authority for the emanci- 
pation of flaves, we may eafily fee the rea- 
fon of it, as well as that the fpirit of chrif- 
tianity leads to it. To have preached li- 
berty to all captives, and freedom to all 
flaves, in the age of the apoftles would 
have been deemed rebellion againfl the go- 
vernment then eftablifhed. We fee how- 
ever, 



the Slave Tirade* 15 

ever, that the fentiments of chriftianity, 
where they have fpread, have actually ope- 
rated to the emancipation of flaves in a very 
great part of the weftern world, which 
once abounded with them ; and thofe that 
yet remain in the eaftern parts of Europe, 
there is reafon to think will obtain the 
fame favour, and by the fame means, in due 
time. Thus Chrift may be faid, in a 
literal fenfe, to have preached liberty to the 
captives, by his religion leading to the 
emancipation of flaves. 

Chriftianity teaches us to coniider all 
mankind as brethren, equally the fubjects of 
God's moral government here, and alike 
heirs of immortality hereafter. Now, 
whether it can be proved that thefe princi- 
ples neceffarily lead to the emancipation of 
flaves or not (any more than they lead to 
take away all inequalities among men, thofe 
of rich and poor, matters and fervants, &c.) 
yet they will certainly lead us to give every 
individual of the human race equal, at leaft 
fufficient, advantages for improving his na- 
ture, and preparing for a future ftate. 

1b 



1 6 A Difcourfe on 

In this moil; important refpecl: the poor and 
the rich, the mailer and the fervant, may- 
be equal. But alas ! not fo the flave in the 
Weft-Indies. It is the interefl of the mas- 
ters., at leaft they too generally imagine it 
to be their interefl:, to treat their flaves (un- 
checked by any law) in the fame manner 
as they would mere brutes ; fo that they 
are. deprived of every advantage of their ra- 
tional nature, and are rendered incapable of 
deriving any benefit from chrifiianity -, from 
which, indeed, too many of the mailers vo- 
luntarily deprive themfeives ** 

* That it would be for the advantage of matters and flaves,, 
if due attention were given to their iriftruclion, cannot be 
doubted; Let the reader/judge of this from the following 
note to the Bifhop of London's fermon, quoted before, p. 29. 
" That fuch a real and general conversion of the negroes, as is 
" here propofed, is no romantic projeft, but a thing perfectly 
" practicable ; and that it would be highly beneficial both to 

the flaves and their proprietors is evident from the progrefs 
*' already made in this work by the Moravian miffionaiies. In 
" the Danifh iflands of St. Thomas, St. Croix, and St. John, 
" they have profelyted near 6,000 negroes. They have alfo a 
" congregation of feveral thoufands in the ifland of Antigua. 
*' This faft has been confirmed to me, very lately, by a clergy - 
" man who has lived many years in that ifland ; and I have 
" been affured by a gentleman of credit, who faw them at pub- 
" lie worfhip, that their dtportment was remarkably ferious, 

attentive, 



the Slave Trade. tj 

Of fome m afters better things may no 
doubt with truth be faid ; but in ge- 
neral, I believe it is true of the Haves 
in the poffeffion of the Englifh, that 
they have no opportunity of hearing any 
thing more of chriftianity than they would 
have had in the heart of Africa. This 
certainly mould not be permitted by 
any government which profefTes to take 
upon itfelf the eftablifhment of the chrif- 
tian religion. For furely it will not be 
maintained, that the objecl: of thefe efta- 
blifhments is the mere emolument of the 
clergy, and not the inftruction of the fub- 
jecls in the principles of chriftianity. This 
is the profejfed end of the fyftem, and the 

" attentive, devout, and edifying. And they fo greatly fur- 
" pafs all the other (laves in fobriety, diligence, quietnefs, hde- 
" lity, and obedience, that the planters ate anxious to have 
" their negroes put under the direction of the milfionaries, 
" whom they greatly encourage. In the French iflands alfo, 
" the converfion of the negroes by the Rofniih pfieils and 
" miffionaries is univerfal. The confequence is, that the 
" French flaves are much more decent, honeft, regular, and 
" orderly, than thofe of the Englifli. If fuch be the effects 
" even of erroneous fyftems of faith, what might not be expeft- 
'* ed from the doctrines of the church of England, inculcated 
V with equal zeal ? 

C provifion 



1 8 A Difcourfe on 

provifion that is made for the clergy is only 

a means to that end *. 

But whether government dire&Iy inter- 
fere in this bufinefs or not,, it ought to re- 
move every impediment in the way of reli- 
gious inftruclion, and put it in the power 
of every clafs of men to profit by the doc- 
trines and precepts of chriftianity, if they 
pleafe. If we be chriftians ourfelves,- it 
will be our endeavour to make others fo ; 
and there can be no greater evidence of a 
man being no chriftian himfelf, than his 
indifference about extending the bleffings 
of chriftianity to others, and efpecially 
thofe whom providence has committed to 
his care, his children, his fervants, and his 
dependants in general. 

But without considering men as made for 
immortality, and capable of the great blef- 
fings they may derive from chriftianity, there 
is fomething in the principles of human 
nature, that declares againft fervitude, and 
mews it to be an improper ftate for man, 

* As the Weft India iflands are, I believe 1 , within the dio- 
cefe of London, fhould not the bifhops of that fee have given 
particular attention to thefe poor fouls under their care. 

5 though 



the Slave Trade. ip 

though not for brute beajis. Thefe are ca- 
pable of being happy in a flate of fervitude* 
fome of them more fo than in a flate of li- 
berty. The reaibn is that they have little 
reflexion on the paltj or anticipation of the 
future. But man has the power of re- 
flexion in an eminent degree; and it is this 
that makes him miferable in a ftate of fer- 
vitude. Through agony of mind, greats 
numbers of Negroes put an end to their 
own lives, both before they embark, when 
they are on fhip board, and during fervi- 
tude afterwards. And how wretched mull; 
be many others, who have not the refoiu- 
tion to come to that horrid extremity. 
What the planters call the feafoning of the 
ilaves, depends as much upon the mind as 
upon the body. While the thoughts of 
their country, their relations, and friends^ 
are frefh in their minds, and a fenfe of 
their abject condition (arifing from a com- 
parifon of it with their former flate) pecu- 
liarly pungent, their health will be pre- 
carious, and their lives uncertain. And 
they will be incapable of any degree of 
C 2 happinefs 



20 ^ Difcourfe on 

happinefs in a ftate of fervitude, till their 
feelings are blunted, and they are reduced 
to a condition nearly approaching that of 
the brutes. By a continual attention to 
fome one thing they become expert in it, 
but they will be incapable of embracing 
many other objects. 

Some Europeans, finding Negro Haves 
in this wretched degraded condition, to 
which themfeives have reduced them, have 
had the aifurance, and the folly, to pro- 
nounce them to be a fpecies of men 
greatly inferior to themfeives. But were 
Europeans treated in the fame manner a fuf- 
iicient length of time, it is demonflrable 
that the mofl intelligent of them all would 
be no better. Thofe who fee Negroes in 
their native country, or in circumftances of 
better treatment among ourfelves, are fatif- 
fied that they are by no means inferior to 
Europeans in point of undemanding. 

According to the obfervations of a late 
ingenious traveller, the ancient Egyptians, 
fo famed for their wifdom, were the very 
fame people with the prefent Negroes. - 

There 



the Slave Trade. 



21 



There is therefore fomething in the na- 
ture and conftitution of man that renders 
him an improper fubject of fervitude. He 
was made for a better condition, being na- 
turally qualified to enjoy and adorn it ; and 
it is acting contrary to nature, to degrade 
his condition below the ftandard of his 
powers. 

Befides, the matter of a flavc is in a fitu- 
ation as improper for his nature as the flave 
himfelf. They are both materially injured 
by the relation. Such a power as that 
which a matter exercifes over a flave necef- 
farily tends to make him haughty, cruel, 
and capricious, unfit for the fociety of his 
equals, which is the happiett ftate of man. 
Perfons who are bred in the Weft Indies, 
and have long been in the habit of being 
ferved by flaves, are eafily dittinguilhed from 
other men of the fame nation. They are 
not themfelves aware how much their na- 
tures are debafed, and how offenfive their 
behaviour often is to others. We mould 
by all means then, if we have any idea of 
the dignity of human nature, and if we have 

C 3 at 



22 A Djfiourje on 

at heart the real interefl of the mailer, as 
well as that of the (lave, put an end to this 
unnatural and improper diflinction among 
thofe who are partakers of the fame common 
nature. 

There are fome who fay that the Negroes 
are no lefs flaves in their own country than 
m the Weil Indies, and that, in many re- 
fpects, their condition is bettered by the 
removal. Admitting this (which however 
is far from being true) what right has any 
man to judge for another, and even to better 
his condition by force ? But the woril cir- 
cumflance in the condition of the Negroes 
at home is that which has been occafioned 
by this traffic, which makes it the interefl: 
of the powerful to opprefs the weak. Re- 
move this incentive to tyranny and avarice, 
and there can be no doubt but the Negroes 
in Africa will be as well treated as the fub- 
jects of other arbitrary governments, in 
which the poor are leaft liable to he mo- 
lefled, and in which it is the interefl of 
the fovereign to protect and befriend his 
fubjeds, as a father his family. Befides 

political 



the Slave Trade 23 

political Jlavery is a very different thing from 
domejlic. In the former fenfe all the Turks 
may be faid to be Haves ; but they are not 
fuch flaves as the Negroes in our Weft- 
Indies. They have valuable rights, which 
the fovereign himfelf holds facred, and d^res 
not invade. But what is it that the enilaved 
Negro can call his own ? 

The prodigious wafle of flaves is itfelf, 
as I have obferved, a proof of their wretched 
condition, that they are deprived of all the 
comforts of domeilic life, and treated no bet- 
ter than horfes, and other cattle, are with us. 

Let not then the good fenfe of English- 
men fuffer their humanity to be retrained 
from exerting itfelf by mere words. Let 
perfons call things by what names they 
pleafe, but let abufes of every kind be cor- 
rected, let impartial jufiice be adminiftered, 
and let mercy be fhewn to all that need it ; 
and then a period will be put to this groffeft 
of all abufes, perhaps the greateft, and moll 
crying evil under the fun. 

Some may fay that the prefent condition 

of the Negroes is the fulfilment of an an- 

C 4 cient 



24 -^ Difcourfe on 

eient prophecy, in which Ham is declared to 
be the fervant of Shem and of Japhet. But 
it is with moft probability thought that 
this ancient prophecy relates only to the 
fubjugation of the Canaanites, who were 
defcended from Ham, or at moft to that of 
the Tyrians and Carthaginians, who had in 
a great meafure the fame origin. However, 
admitting that this cafe is in part the 
fulfilment of that prophecy, that will not 
exculpate us in our treatment of the Negroes. 
It was the intention of the Almighty that 
jofeph mould be fold into Egypt, and alfo 
that our Saviour mould be crucified ; but 
the guilt of jofeph's brethren, and that of 
the Scribes and Pharifees, was not the lefs 
for that circumftance. Befides, the fcrip- 
tures have been abundantly fulfilled in the 
cafe of the fubjecuon of the defendants of 
Ham. And as God appoints no evil for its 
pwn fake, but with a view to a greater 
good, fo it has pleafed his wife providence 
to provide remedies for all evils, which 
operate in their proper time. It may, there- 
fore, be hoped, that the fervitude of the 

Negroes 



the Slave Trade, 2$ 

Negroes is drawing near to its completion ; 
and perhaps their future condition may be 
as happy as their prefent is calamitous. It 
is not faid that the pofterity of Ham mall 
always be Haves. When the happy time 
mail come that the wolf jh all lie down with 
the lamb, when the world mall be a fcene 
of univerfal peace (which the fure word of 
prophecy certifies to us, and the prefent 
Hate of things makes highly probable) it 
may be prefumed that fervitude alfo will be 
at an end, and the diflinction of majler and 
Jlave exift no more. 

Some fay that if we abandon the flave 
trade we give up a valuable fource of na- 
tional profit, and yield it to our rivals. 
Should this be the cafe, (till a chriftian na- 
tion mould not hefitate to do what is right 
in itfelf. A trade fo circumstanced as this 
mayjurtlybe termed wicked, and unlawful^ 
fuch as no advantage can juftify. Alfo, 
with nations as with individuals, bonefiy is 
ultimately the beft policy. 

I apprehend, however, that we mall be 
far from being lofers by ceafing to trade 

with 



% 6 A Difcoitrfe on 

with Africa for men. The fame people, for 
the fake cf the fame commodities for which 
they commit fuch horrid outrages on one. 
another, would certainly do any thing elfe 
to procure them - 3 and the country is fruit- 
ful of produces which might be of more 
value to us than all the flaves we bring from 
thence. In a country of that vail: extent, if 
we favoured the civilization of it, as by our 
intercourfe we might do, initead of con- 
tributing to keep it in that (late of favage 
barbarity in which it is at prefent, the 
inhabitants, having already a fondnefs for 
many of our commodities, would foon ar- 
rive at a ftate in which they would want 
more of them. If we only give them an 
idea of a better condition than they at 
prefent enjoy, they will foon find the means 
of obtaining it. If the Negroes are lazy at 
home (though they whoafiert this can with 
little decency maintain that their condition 
is bettered by flavery) it is becaufe they 
have no motive to exert themfelves. Thejjr 
wants are few, and eafiiy fupplied. But 
people inhabiting climates as hot as theirs 

. are 



the Slave Trade, 27 

are laborious and civilized, giving and re- 
ceiving the greater! benefits by their commer- 
cial, intercourfe with various other nations. 
There can be no doubt, therefore, but that, 
were this barbarous Have trade aboliflied, 
and the civilization of Africa promoted, 
for one bale of any kind of goods that 
we now fend to it, we fhould foon ten$. 
many, and in a much greater variety; fa 
that the manufacturers of this country in 
general would find a great benefit from 
a change of the fydem, and not one of them 
would be a lofer. 

Some will fay how (hall we get fugar, 
and the other products of the Weft-India 
iilands, now raifed by Haves, if llavery be 
abolimed. I anfwer, our firft care mould 
be to do jujiice, and Jhow mercy , let what 
will become of the fuperfluities, or even 
the necefiaries, of life. But I would afk, 
how did we do before we had brought 
ourfelves into this unnatural fituation? There 
was then no want of fugar, or of fome fub- 
flitute for it, though the ufe of this luxury 
was not then fo common. Let every thing 

for 



28 A Difcourfe on 

for the ufe of man be raifed by men who 
fhall be paid the full price of their labour, 
and let thofe who cannot pay that price go 
without it, as they do with refpect to other 
things. 

Befides, it is demonflrable that we may 
have fugar, and every other commodity that 
we now raife by means of Haves, even cheaper 
without flaves -, either by encouraging the 
culture of them in Africa, and other fuitable 
climates*, and purchafing them there with 
our own proper commodities (without the 
expence of fettling and defending plantations 
of our own) or even by the labour of free- 
men in thofe plantations. Abolifh flavery, 
and the labour now performed by flaves will 
not be confidered as difgraceful. 

It is faid that the Quakers, who from the 
pureft principles of humanity and chrifti- 

* Mr. Ofborne, who was employed in the negpciation of 
the late peace, affured me, that fugar might be raifed in Africa, 
by the labour of free negroes, and be fold in London, at one- 
half the price that we now give for it; but that it would be 
necefTary to fecure the favour of the chiefs by prefents from 
government. He had had a plantation of his own in that 
country, on which he employed, as nearly as I can remember, 
three hundred negroes. 

i anity 



the Slave Trade, 29 

anity manumitted their Haves, found, even 
to their furprize, that they gained more by 
their fervice as freemen, when they paid 
them wages, than they did by them as ilaves, 
when they gave them no wages at ail 5 the 
Negroes laboured fo much more chear- 
fully, and did fo much more work, when 
freemen than when flaves* 

At all events, let fervitude be abolifhed, 
and leave it to the ingenuity and industry 
of our countrymen to find a fubftitute for 
it. When things are brought into a com- 
plex and unnatural flate, it is not eafy to 
revert to that which is proper and natural I 
but in time it will be done. And perhaps 
the immediate emancipation of all ilaves 
would be an improper, becaufe in fact no 
humane meafure. Thofe who have been 
long flaves would not know how to make 
a proper ufe of freedom. But if a {top was 
put to the farther importation of ilaves, it 
would immediately become the interefl of 
the mailers to make the moil; of their prefent 
flock, and confequently to treat their flaves 
with more humanity j fo that in time their 

condition 



30 A Difcourfe on 

condition would be the fame with that of 
the villeins in the Feudal times of this 
country 5 and by degrees approach to that 
of freemen. Or freedom might be placed 
within the reach of the more induftrious of 
the (laves, as it is with the Spaniards and 
French; and the man who mall have worked 
himfelf free would know how to make a 
proper ufe of his freedom, and would be 
prepared to make a valuable member of 
fociety. However, to take the moil prudent 
meafures in the cafe mufl be left to the 
wifdom of parliament. Ours is to exprefs 
our good' w-ifhes in the caufe, and by our 
zeal to excite them to do what they mall 
deem the moil proper. 

What is proposed to be done by England 
is already done in Virginia, Delaware, and 
Rhode Ifland, and is likely to take place in 
all the States of America*. It will be an 

* One of the North American provinces, as they then were 
(I think it was New- York) fome time before the commence- 
ment of the American war, paffed a law again 11 the importation 
of Haves, bin on account of the oppofition made to it by fome 
merchants in England it was not confirmed in the Privy Coun- 
cil of this country. Shall we fay that the government which 
will havej/5W« does not deferve to \izxzfubjefis P 

honour 



the Slave Trade. 31 

honour to this country, and the mod glori- 
ous event in the prefent reign, if the ex- 
ample mould be followed here. It will be 
honourable to every perfon in proportion to 
the fhare he mail have in bringing it about. 
But in this we muft ail give place to the 
Quakers, who were the firfr. to mew them- 
felves friends to the rights of humanity ; 
and what is more, who were the firft to 
decline any advantage which they, in com- 
mon with others, might have derived from, 
this inhuman traffic with our own fpecies. 

With Englishmen I may be allowed to 
argue from that love of liberty by which they 
profefs to be actuated. For furely we are 
not fuch felfim beings, as to wifh to engrofs 
every thing valuable. If we have any fenti- 
ments 1 of benevolence, or fenfe of common 
equity, .we mail wifh to fee every thing 
extended to others that we covet for our- 
felves. As we Rnglifhmen, then, would leafl 
brook the condition of the Negroes in our 
plantations, we ought to have the moft 
companion for them, and, remote as they 
are from us in fituation and condition, we 

mould 



22 A Difeourfe on 

mould confider them as brethren and neigh- 
bours, and therefore exert ourfelves to the 
utmoft for their relief. 

Englimmen are alfo no lefs renowned for 
their generofity than for their love of liberty. 
Our charities, for every defcribable human 
want, are far more numerous than thofe of 
any other nation in the world. They have 
often been extended to ilrangers as well as 
to natives. Let the fame principle operate 
on this occafion, than which none can more 
loudly call for it. If thofe be the moil 
proper objects of generoiity who ftand in 
the mofl need of it (and according to my 
text we mould confider ourfelves as neigh- 
bours to all thofe to whom we have an 
opportunity of acting a neighbourly or 
friendly part) none can Hand to us in that 
relation more nearly than the wretched Ne- 
groes ; no part of the human race furTering 
more, or more unjuftly; or who have it lefs 
in their power to help themfeives. As their 
complaints cannot even be heard by thofe 
who have the power to relieve them, and they 
are, indeed,. utterly ignorant of the exigence 

of 



the Slave Trade 33 

of any fuch power on earthy we fhould make 
their complaints, and urge their pleas for 
them. As it is in our power to give them 
this affiftance, we are in duty bound to do 
it. For it is an univerfal truth> that the 
obligation to do a good office ever accom- 
panies the power of doing it. Where God 
gives the one, he requires the others 

I think myfelf peculiarly happy that, in 
recommending the relief of the diftrefied 
African flaves, I can join heartily with 
every denomination of chriftians in the 
country, the catholics, the members of the 
eftablifhment, and diuenters of all denomi- 
nations. This is not the caufe of unita- 
rianimii of arianifm, or of trinitarianifm, 
but limply that of humanity^ and our com- 
mon cbriftianity $ and as I have frequently, 
and with peculiar pleafure* obferved, all the 
articles on which we differ are trifling com- 
pared to thofe with refpect to which all 
chriftians are, and ever have been, agreed. 

We all believe in the obligation of the 

moral duties of life; we all believe in the 

divine minion of Chrift, in a righteous 

E> providence 



34 & Difcourfe on 

providence of God here, and in a ftate of 
rewards and punimments hereafter; and 
thefe are the only things that are of real 
efficacy in religion. Other things, indeed, 
have their value, and great value ; but it is 
of a kind far inferior to this. They may 
recommend our religion to thofe who are 
not much difpofed to receive it, and they 
may lead us to contemplate it with more 
fatisfa&ion ourfclves, as more agreeable to 
to reafon, and the fcriptures (and no real 
friend of revelation can wifh to fee thefe 
things at variance) but any fpecies of chrifli- 
anity, really believed, and acted upon, will 
make men fbber, benevolent, and pious ; 
good friends, and good neighbours, kind and 
ufeful in all the relations of life, entirely re- 
ligned to the will of God, and difpofed to co- 
operate in ail that he fhall recommend to us. 
Had the infinitely fuperior importance 
of thefe great articles of ehriftian faith, 
which immediately refpect, and effectually 
iecure, the great object of chriftianity 
(which ^brings life and immortality to light, 
and which was given to bkfs mankind 

in 



the Slave Trade. 35 

in turning them from their iniquities J the 
eftablimment of other articles, which have 
little or no relation to this great object, 
would not have been fo eagerly contended 
for. It would have been thought fufrlcient 
to enforce the belief of fuch things as really 
diftinguiih chriflians from other men ; and 
that with refpect to things of lefs moment, 
all chriflians might be permitted to think 
and act as they pleafed, provided they gave 
no difturbance to their neighbours. Upon 
this reafonable plan, truth would have its 
proper advantage over error -, whereas at 
prefent, whatever errors may happen to be 
eflablimed, being fupported by power, their 
reign (as in the days of popifh darknefs and 
fuperftition) will be greatly prolonged. But 
it is, no doubt, for the befl, that truth 
mould have an opportunity of triumphing, 
as we may be confident it will, in circum- 
ftances the moil unfavourable to its pro- 
pagation. In fimilar circumftances was 
chriftianity itfelf at its firft promulgation. 
Let us, then, think no more than may be 
neceffary of the things on which we differ, 
D 2 which 



2Jb A Difcourfe on 

which tends to create diflike, and as mHch 
as poffible on thofe with refpedt to which 
we are agreed, which may promote mutual 
candour, love, and affection. 

It feems to be the intention of Divine 
Providence, that every thing fhould be 
brought to perfection by degrees. If we 
have any faith in hiftory and prophecy, the 
laft age of the world is to be infinitely 
preferable to any thing that we have yet 
experienced; and certainly the prefent 
flate of things is preferable to any that 
is pail. By means of chriftianity chiefly, 
the great governor of the world is gradually 
bringing on a flate of univerfal peace and 
happinefs, which mull:, as I have obferved, 
imply the abolition of ilavery, as well as of 
every other evil. But God works by injiru^ 
ments \ and his instruments in things that 
refpecr. mankind, are chiefly men. 

Let us then confider ourfelves as being 
workers together with God, in bringing 
about an improved flate of things, in bet- 
tering the condition of our fpecies, and 
extending the juft rights of humanity to all 

our 



the Slave Trade* 37 

our race 5 thus recommending the gofpel 
which we all profefs, that gofpel. which is 
calculated to bring peace upon earth, and 
goodwill to men, and which, when it fhall 
be univerfally received and obeyed, will 
make all mankind righteous and happy. 
Thus it will make even this world a real 
paradife, and fit us for a flate of greater 
glory and happinefs in another, 



A PRAYER. 



A PRAYER. 

L MIGHTY, and ever-bleffed God, 

who haft of one blood made all nations of 
men, to dwell upon the face of all the earth, 
and haft determined the times before appointed, 
and the bounds of their habitation ; who art 
equally the God, and the father, of all the 
families of the earth, and who art the refuge 
of th-e oppreffed,; extend thy compaffion, we 
befeech thee, to all thine offspring, and our 
brethren, of mankind. 

Do thou, in whoje hand are the hearts of 
all men, and who tumeft them, as the rivers oj 
water, which way fo ever thou pleafeft, awaken 
in the minds of all who are at eafe, a due 
feeling for the miferable; that thofe who 
have the power to do it, may loofe all the 
bands of wickednefs, undo all heavy burdens, 
let the opprejfed go free, and break every un- 
ju ft yoke -, and may the great bleilings which, 
by thy favour, we enjoy, be equally fhared 
by all the human race. 

More efpecially, may thofe of our fpecies 
who, in any part of the world, are outwardly 
in the condition of brute beads, but who 
are often inwardly more afflicted than brute 
beads are capable of being, be rellored to 
the common rights of humanity; and by 
the bleilings of civilization, and equitable 
government, may they be prepared to receive 
the fuperior advantages of chriflianity, in 
the knowledge of thy truth, and the prof- 
peel; 



[ 39 ] 

peel; of a happy immortality, as revealed to 
mankind by thy fon Jefus Chrift ; that by 
means of the glad tidings of the gofpel, they 
may be turned from darknefs to light, receiv- 
ing the forgive nefs of fins, and an inheritance 
among them that are [anffified. Thus may the 
kingdom of thy fon be extended, and fill the 
whole earth. 

To prepare the way for thofe glorious 
times, when the gofpel fhall be univerfally 
received, remove from it thofe corruptions 
'and abufes, which ft ill, alas ! too generally, 
and too clofely, adhere to it, fo as greatly 
to obftruct its progrefs. But, above all, may 
thofe who profefs it, be careful to adorn it 
by a fuitablc life and converfation, that 
others, feeing their good works, may glorify 
thee their father in heaven. And may it 
not be our condemnation, a condemnation 
greater than that of Sodom and Gomorrah, 
of Tyre and Sidon, in the day of judgment, 
that light is come into the world, hut that we 
have loved darknefs rather than light, becaufe 
our deeds were evil. 

May we mew the value we have for the 
bleffings of chriftianity, by our exertions 
both to free it from every thing that debafes 
it, and to impart it, thus purified from 
bafe alloy, toothers; being the instruments 
in thy hand of difFuiing truth, virtue, and 
happinefs through the world. 

Blefs our native country. May we con- 
tinue to fhare thy favour, in the enjoyment 

of 



E 46 ] 

of our liberties, civil and religious $ and ill 
confequence of making a fuitable improve* 
ment of our. many advantages* may we he 
that happy people who]} God is the Lord, If 
any individuals of Our nation* from art in- 
ordinate love of gain* have been guilty of 
injuftice and oppreffion, above thofe of other 
nations, may the generofity of others be 
roufed to greater exertions, in order to put 
a flop to it j and, as far as poffible,,may re- 
paration be made for paft wrongs, by our 
fuperior regard to equity and humanity in 
future time. 

Blefs thy fervant our fovereign ; ejlablijh 
his throne in righteoujhefs, and make his 
reign a bleffing to the lateft pofterity. May 
it be dilHnguifhed by every thing that can 
render a reign truly illuftrious, and memo- 
fable ; by the extenlion of fcience, of arts, 
manufactures, and commerce, as the fource 
of national profperity, but ftill more by the 
greater purity of chrifrian faith, by removing 
every impediment in the way of a farther 
reformation, and extending the blefiings of 
civilization and true religion to the moft 
diftant parts of the earth. 

Hear us, gracious God, we intreat thee* 
in thefe our requefts, as far as mail be 
agreeable to thy infinite Wifdom and good- 
nefs. We afk it as the difciples of thy fon 
Jefus Chrift, through whom, to thee, O 
Father, the only living and true God, be 
afcribe4 everlaiUng praifes. Amen. 



