
Y FREE 




VOL. I. 



BOOIVTCV, 



1844. 



NO. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

T ERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications l ust be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary . acririce, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 



Fur the Freeman. 
Mr. Editor. Abolititioniits, who are such indeed, 



are all aiming at the same result. Whatever could be 
seen to hasten that result they would hail with joy. 
We believe that all true abolitionists are pursuing the 
one great object by such means as ^»^y, in their honest 
convictions, deem best adaqted to secure it. They are 
of one accord in maintaining the deep and unqualified 
sinfulness and impolicy of slavery, and the obligation of 
immediate, universal emancipation. 

They are agreed in petitioning the government of 
God, and all human governments where they have a 
right to be heard, that slavery's heavy budrens may be 
undone. They are agreed in using to the uttermost all 
moral influence, while they differ extremely as to the 
propriety of using political influence. This difthrnce is 
a serious embarrassment to the anti slavery enterpriz;?. 
Abolitionists cannot walk and labor successfully. together 
except they are agreed. Their differences bring them 
into frequent collision; their power is greatly diminish 
ed, their cause is betrayed, and the deliverance of the 

peer sltnrc re --xetardrxl. Ftw w-i«*w>^ thinking men 

are likely to become active abolitionists while they ars 
compelled to witness such a spirit as was exhibited re- 
cently at the anniversary of the American A. S. Socie- 
ty in New York. That spirit was little* better than the 
spirit of slavery itself, and needs to be corrected before 
we can remove the beam from the eye of the southern 
slaveholder. Had abolitionists been all agreed either 
for or against political action, such a scene would not 
have been witnessed. In this enterprize emphatically, 
"how good it is for brethren to dwell together in unity." 

It seems to me that nothing can be more important 
at the present crisis of the slavery cause, than that 
all who love the down trodden slave, sdould be agreed 
in the measures which it is fitting to use for slaverys 
overthrow. We do not expect liberty will be proclaim 
ed "throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants 
thereof " without a struggle. To succeed in that strug- 
gle, we ought all to be united "in singleness of 'heart, fea- 
. j God." 

There ought not to be a difference on the political 
question. If it is right to vote slavery out of exjster.ee 
as well as w ite and preach it out, all should be agreed 
in the matter and vote with a hearty good will. If vo- 
ting is wrong in the case; if it offends God and hinders 
the enterprize, this should be understood and the polit- 
ical contest given up. God has established laws for the 
/aw/ear, for those who wiil r ot yield to truth and rea- 
son, and if it is right to apply his instrumentality to that 
whereunto it is sent, let us do it; if not, let us. forbear. 

Ir, it not possible then to settle the question of duty 
in reference to political action? What makes it duty for 
one to vote or not to vote? Can we not lay aside preju- 
dice and investigate honestly and prayerfully this ques- 
tion, "Is it the duty of men to vote against slavery?" 

Suppose we take up a kindred reform in another part 
of the world, and see whether we would not agree in 
voting for that, I mean the Irish repeal. The union 
which the Irish wish repealed, exists by law; and that 
law has its strength in the outrageous selfishness ana 



ambition of men. They, with O'Conneil at their head, 
have lifted their voices thro ighft&t the nation, remonstra- 
ting agains' the wrong and oppression under which they 
labor, and exerted all the moral influence they could in 
this way. They have sent O'Conneil to Parlaiment, and 
he has lifted his voice among ths lawmaker.-' to influence 
them morally to do justice. Have not the repealers done 
right in voting? Could they consistently have sent an 
anti-repealer, a persecuter of O'Conneil' to represnt them 
in the house of Commons? Does any A merican abolition- 
ist think of condemning their course? Surely not. Would 
it seem consistent for them to refuse to have O'Con- 
nell's voice heard in Parliament when they had power 
to send him there? 

Is not our case a parallel one? Slavery exists by law. 
That law, it is true, has its stength in the selfishness of 
the slave-holder and his apologist. Bat for their selfish- 
ness they would let the oppress ?d go free. s Yet their sin 
remains although we have rebuked it in high places and 
low; and we have no guaranty that mere remonstrance 
will break their hearts. Many "evil men and seducers 
shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and beingdeceiv- 
ed." While we have used moral' influence and continue 
to do so to the uttermost, v hy should we not, like the 
Irish repealers send our O'Eonnells to Congress to preach 
liberty to those who say "iet slavery be, and slavery is" 
The distinction which is extensively assumed, that 
political influence is at w irwiih moral, is not true: where 
can moial influence be more successfully and profitably 
employed tb;-ji in our legilaiive councils? Is there not 
moral influence in voting for truth as well as speaking & 
writing for it? Is not condemning slavery at the ballot 
box as truly a moral act as condemning it in the columns 
of a journal; and is nottht» ferffcienoe of tli<^ one act as 
much a moral influence as the influence of the other? 
If it is immoral to countenance drunkenness by voting for 
those who will licence the sale of rum, it must be moral 
to discountenance it by voting for those who will refuse 
to license such sale. 

But some object to political action who love the slave 
as well an we do, because it is thought to be destructive 
to piety. It is said that we cannot enter into the strife of 
the political world without losing the spirit and temper 
of Christ. That men do bfteu corrupt themselves in po- 
litical life v ill not be denied. But is this unavoidably 
so? If" It; is, then surely the service of God cannot cail 
us tithe pe-iis; T!v» objection assumes, that that service 



wolves in sh<*fcp ; a clothing. 

Certainly we are to setile this, as we do every other 
question of duty, by an application of the lav.- ci love '■(> 
the circumstances of the case. More a'nou 



in which ft man may become corrupt, cannot be requi- 
red of God. But is this true? Men may become corrupt 
in the most sacred callings. Ministers of the gospel 
may become proud and ambitious, These who speak in 
the Lords name through 'he myriad tongued press may 
speak li'-T. But is the fact that, these things may be so 
and in nvunry cases art- so, a good reason why the gospel 
should not he preached, and tiers d- d on the wings of 
the press to the ends of the aarti: r" Tl e-c corruptions 
come not unavoidably. We am certainly not to expoese. 
ourselves to unholy influences from which we cannot 
escape. Any man may comipt himself in any course of 
employment in life, but no man need do it in any course 
to which God and duty call. With God's panoply upon 
us we can resist the siggrftgate temptations to which any 
path of duty subjects us; we can "fight with beasts at 
Ephesus" or at the polls: without it of course we fall at 
et every step. 

Then ti e question to be first settled still- is, "What is 
duty — what will the Lord bave us to do? If he will have 
us vote for the freedom of the slave as well as pray 
and preach for it, we are bound to do it, and he will be 
with u.s. How t'ien shall 'we settle the question? The 
fact that some have lo3t their moral purity by going to 
the poll ; s cannot iiettje it, any more thau the apostacy of 
some ministers can pi-"ve f hai a'l ministers must be 



THE PRESIDENCY. 
Notwithstanding all that has bwn baid n tela- oil ; s 
slavehoWing dictaiion <»«£airs of go-. <;;•.•••-. 'ir 
of the South still, is give, give; and the hearty liesponst 
of the most pitifully subservient North, is, give, give. 

We would think that, the developemerfts of the t;asi 
were sufficient to open the eyes of the whole posplt?, & 
convince them of the absolute* folly, h not of wicked - 
ness, in alv- ays yielding to the inaolent demands of the 
slaveholders; but we have the continued manifestations 
of the arrogant requirements of the South, and servile^ 
submission on the part o: the North. 

According to the last censiis, there were about four 
millions df tree poeple in the smth. and about ten Trill- 
ions at the north; and this proporiimi has j :ihai* be* 
nearly the same, since the urganizaro': of >he gov.-;, 
ment. Since the adoption of the constitution v. e have 
five southern slaveholders for Presidents, who held tb< . 
office eight years eic-h, and one more whose four v^ar^ 
will terminate next March: making 44 jvars — and w: 
have had three northern Presidents who held the offirr 
four years each, making !2yt.irs only. With ♦his w-» 
think the South should bo satisfied, for a while at lea.* 
but how stands the matter? Within little mure thai, 
one mouth three great political conventions have i-o- 1. 
held, to nominate candidates! for the Presidency; all hi h : 
in a slayeholding atmosphere, and each con vention ha* 
nominated a scitkern sHwhoiiler . 

To say nothing about the characters' of the men ho,> . 
inated in other respects, the fact that these three part'ir-. 
are using every effort to elevate slaveholders to tfc 
higest office in the gift of the nation, when they ha 
had that office 44 out of 56 year, is p. tfnW that ougl" 
to open the eyes, and arose the indignation of ever* ci l 
lover of human liberty. Can this boasted Sand of fre- - 
dom have none but slavholders to preside over it; con: ■- 
cils? Is there not arr-ong the ten millions of norilu-r. 
freemen, one to be found capable of filling ilia* offii - 
who does not wear the badge <it • --ion, > a:- 

. . if ■ 

skirts are net stained with tL« bi-,wd oi'iv. hnocsnt? 

Shall the world look on and behold all th; ear rgies* r-' 
a great and prl'Sssedly free nation, put forth to eusla .. 
the slavekoldiuj interests, and perpetuate su buel, unit • t 
and detestable a system as American slavery'-' 

Let it be decreed otherwise by the poeph of thr 
Free States, 'and our Country sluill be red mod 



KiunaPpino is Phjladkm'HIa. — Tu« Pbi.ladeipha: 
Time?. sta<«-8 that a trios* singular case of attempted kid- 
napping occurred in that city, a few days ago. A tail , 
gaily dressed, nicely jeweled personage styling hims. »;' 
John Shaner, presented to the overseers of the pool >• 
letter signed "John Muhlenburg," representing ft r.- 
Shaner was a wealthy farmer of Barks County, Pa.. & 
that he was in want of a colored girl as a servant on 1. s 
place. The overseers selected from the Blockley Aim- 
house a likely looking girl about twelve years of age-, 
and bound her as an apprentice to Mr. Shaner. He star- 
ted with her for Maryland immediately, in order to d» 
pose of her as a slave, but, stopping at Lancast: r, his : 
tention was suspected, and he was arrested. He v> 
brought back the next day when the whole scheme ^ 
exposed ; as it turned out there was no such man in Be.!., 
county as John Muhlenberg and that Shaner w as a rogt • 

Emancipator. 



Miu-buyers are erractiy ou .i lev 



Vvith JBt'tlr-st'-ftl 

John. Wesleiu 



THE new Jersey 
FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, JUNE 15, 3844. 



Let us throw off the mask — 'tis a cobweb one at best, 
and the world will see through it. Ii will not do thus to 
talk like; philosophers, and act like unrelenting fyrants; 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text, 
and actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. Pinckney, of Mnryland. 

in all things that have beauty, there is nothing to men 
more comely than LIBERTY MiUok. 



We live in age in which almost every part of the civ- 
jfirei! world is flooded with news paper publications; St 
the question may be asked, what need is there of any 
more;" We answer, that although the Press is hourly 
pouring forth its sheets with which the country is del- 
uged, yet there is a great scarcity of such as are deser- 
ving the patronage of those who wish well to the human 
race. The public press of our land, with but very few 
sxceptions, is under the control of political parties built 
upon foudations of party expediency, or swayed by sec- 
tarian influences; arnd are travelling far in the rear of a 
healthy public sentiment. 

They maintain an inflexible opporftioii to the truth, 
■while the truth" is unpopular, and give the whole weight 
of theif influence against those wbo are "persecuted 
for righteousness sake". 1 Whenever a number of in- 
dividuals whose hearts are filled with the love of truth 
ati3 universal philanthropy, band together to labor for 
the removal of popular evils, they not only have that e- 
vil to grapple with, but must struggle against the combin- 
ed influence's of the public press; and for tb : s reason 
mainly^ the business of reform is always a "Herculean 
Work. 

Error, unstrstained by popular influences, would fall 
by its own inherent unworthine;?s; it is only when it in 
interwoven with the imaginary iriteresis of a nation, and 
becomes so popular as to command the support and de- 
fence of the public press, that its removal becomes im- 
practicable or evert difficult. The political presses of the 
country are devoted to the interests 6f tlieir respective 
parties, arid wherl the interests of these parties require 
it, are ready to trample every interest of humanity under 
their feet, and villify, abuse arid persecute every individ- 
ual who loves the truth and dares to advocate it: while 
the religious press, devoted to their respective sectarian 
interests, like the Priest and the Levitt, "pass by on 
the other side," and in numerous instances j not only ca- 
lumniate and persecute the good Samaritau, but heap 
Wounds and bruises upon those even who have "fallen 
among thieves." 

Th«y have not only refused tb comb out 8'n the side of 
truth, but have helped all the ddium possible iipcn those 
who Have espoused it. The public pfess, religious 
and political With but very few exceptions have been lav • 
ish in their abuse of all thdse who fittve dared to adjfro 
eatethe doctrines of the Declaration of Independence. 

They Lave been profuse in the misrepresentation", of 
the views, principles and practices of those who hav- 
labored and plead for the abolition of slavery and :!. 
concomitant abominations, und when these misrepm 
sentatipns have been pointed out to them, tliey ha\i 
oust i ite t< '.ly rrfuse8 to make the corrections which jus 
tice deir&Hded. The column-; df American newspaper.- 
Kavo bwil i'rP'% opened for any, and every thing thar 
ihe cnumiefe of freedom desired to say against dtn:>>icipa 
tion or its friends, and with the rribsi unutterable iujv/. 
tice have been with very few exceptions critirpiy elcsei 
against the injured parties who have been cut off fir on, 
Ml defence. In short we have long been dssgtm i c 1 
with the contemptible prb-skivery subserviency of th 
American Pre a.-:, and we haye abandonee! ail hope »h:> 
through such a press, any thin* can be delicto puri:' 
public morals, to rolifeve the oppressed and u'owri t 
den, to advance trv.tl , brtfipr.:.. y a ..! perpetr ate bar Irt ■ 
institutio is. 



Under this state of things what is to be done. We d< 
u^i know „•: a . paper in New Jersey, the columns 
of which a -" pp&i it> the fronds of libertyV the discuss- 
ion of America.! Slavery either in its moral or political 
b earings, and we &e clear Iq the belief that our country 
requires an increase in the number of impartial, fearless 
and -independent newspaper publications, and under this 
conviction we istftie the NEW JERSEY FREEMAN, 
and proceed, briefly, to define our position. 

©n 8rtc Subject off Slavery, 
we take take the ground that it is a grievous wrong, an 
outrage under every circumstance, and "ihat no possible 
contiiigeitijies ban nvike it right;'" and that it should be 
immediately abolished. We believe that slavery ha.- 
long been consuming the vitafs of our nation, morally, 
polically, and religiously; therefore, we shall not labor 
Jo purify slavery, io remedy its defects, or correct its abu- 
ses; but to abolish it. Believing that God created all men 
Jree and equal, we shall yield to no compromises, but seek 
the total unconditional annihilation of the system itself. 

In laboring .for the accomplishment of this end, we be- 
lieve it our duty to make use of all honest means, and 
we do not believe in the possibiliy of separating moral 
suasion from politcal action. The Ballot Box, is an 
instrument of great power for good or for evil, and we 
cannot agree to give the enemies of truth the exclusive 
benefit of it. As long as we recognize the rightful ex- 
istence of law, we are bound by the highest obligations 
of our natures, to see to it, that we choose just men for 
laxo-malccrs. Slavery exists by law, and must be abol- 
ished by la w. We cannot understand the logic of those 
who believe that slavery is a great, unqualified evil, and 
then vote for slaveholders or their apopolgists; or refuse 
to vote for any. Moral suasion, is incomplete without 
political action, and under Lis view of the case, we 
must go with the Liberty Party, until that Party tram- 
ples under foot its own professed creed. 

On the Subject «»r Te«teper»nce, 
we must go for total abstinence, from all intoxicating 
liquors as a beverage. 

We do not believe that a w ise and benificeut God 
ever created in man a necessity for a drink, that is pro- 
ductive of such infinite mischief to the human race. 

Whatever our columns will permit us to say on this 
subject, shall be said with TOTAL ABSTINENCE 
inscribed on omr BANNER. 

We shall go- for PEACE, For MORAL REFORM, 
and for the correction of eVery abus e forbidden by 
Christianity; for until this is accdlnplisued, we do not 
believe that "peace on earth and good will to men" 
will reign to bless the human race. 

Free Dilcussion; 
We do not believe that honest, intelligent beings, 
should ever incorporate in their creeds, whether in sci- 
ence, politics, moials or religion; any thing that they are 
iwilling to'havejmy and freely" discussed] therefore we 
■ for fr£t dis'amum. And as We heaitiy despise that 
too prevalent spirit of the public press, which gives the 
•oeple one side of a question only, we promise, that 
ivheh we say any thing against any person or party, to 
give that person, or party a reasonable space in our pa- 
per for defence. If we do this, we are sure that our 
paper will difler very materially from the papers of the 
'.ge. If we do thii, we" can feel entitled to a liberal 
-.atronage, and believe that an honest, justice loving 
[ublic will not fail to give rt. 



STATE LIBERTY CONVENTION 

Newark, I nil, 1844, a number of the Libert 
Party friends, met in the Baptist Church foot of Market 
otrcet at 12 ociock. Mr. John Lee was chot-u Pres- 
ident, end Wm. F. Gardner Secretary. 

Prayer was oflered by Mi.- Daniel Wise of West 
Bloomfield: 

Messrs. A. H. Freeman, Wright Flavcl and Daniel 
'Vise were appointed a business Committee, and were 
instructed to nominate a Central Committee. 
The meeting then adjourned to 2' ociock P. ft?. 

At. half past 2 P. M. the convention wascall'oi to or- 
der by the President, and player w«fs offered by Rich- 
ard Kelsal of Orange. 

The Chairman of the" business committee reported 
the following resolutions which were discussed and 
adopted. 

Resdlved, 1, That irt the opinion of this Convention, 
slavekolding, is an utter violation of Benevolence, Jus- 
tice, and of every other moral principle ; therefore no 
•MveholdcT can be fit to hold any o&ce of honor, trustor 
profit. 

2, That while it is the privilege and right of every man 
possessed of the elective franchise to use it in the selection 
of Legislator's and Giheers; we hold it to be our high 
duty so to exercise it, &s to produce a sound moral 
influence upsh the commonwealth, and ;,ot bestow it 
upon any man who is morally disqualified; therefore we 
w6uld be false to our convictions, were we to vote for 
a slavehdltkr, his' deferider) or his dpologisl. 

3, That the nation ia jSst wakirig up to the fact, that 
the Federal Government is, and has for a long time 
been completely under, the dominion, and at the mercy 
of the siave power. Thrit the unwise compromise in 
the Constitution, which gives slave property a repre- 
sentation in Congess, has given to the slaveholder, un- 
due weight in the councils of the nation, which advan- 
tage he hste seized upon with avidity, secured with the 
utmost tenacity, and pursued with untiring industry; 
until we find that if we wrrtdd not be slaves" ourselves, 

we mu^. mui L ,e from our olumber.^ and e^ert our bfest 

energies, or sorm our last hope of liberty for ourselves 
and dur -pos-emy, will be extinguished forever. 

4, That the same drriad of the slave power which 
awes the general government, is found to a great extent 
in our own state; having laws which actually chatteKze, 
according to the last census, 670 of our fellow citrcens, 
and which . more or less oppress every colored man 
within our borders. 

5, That we have for a long time lost all confidence 
in the Whig ithd Democratic parties, in reference to 
action against slavery; we see 1 no hope of deliverance 
through them ; only so far as they may be urged to ac- 
tion by the independent and consistent course of anti- 
slavery men; they evidently haVe as partus, given in 
their adhesion to the tyrant power and courted its influ- 
ence to put them in high places; therefore, we continue* 
to turn aside from them In despair, and will give our 
suffrages to trtle and hdhest rnen of our own selection. 

6, That W3 have hdt only a great out inereasiing c 
dence iri political abolition"; nor can that confidence be 
shaken while the slave power treffibles at it? growth 
and influence, and wiiiie such men as Cassius jf! Clav 
ale complimenting the Liberty Party, as the emboriy- 
trient and impersonation of the true and living anti- 
slavery principle and feeling of the nation. 

7, That we are satisfied that the organization and 
rajfid enlargement of the Liberty Party, are the great 
facts ,whieh impel most of our public men who venture 
at any time, to take a stand more or Iee;;s high against 
ihe s/ave power. 

8, That whi/e we thus express our confidence in p><~ 
lilicil action against slavery, we recognize nothing as 
genuine atuialavery action, which doe's not spring from 
a deep seated and keen conviction of the unutteiabi. 

debfjsemest, wretchedness, and horror of American 
slavery; of the unutterable hardihoods cruelty &tfirilt of 

If the pulpit be silent, whenever, or whereever there }he Amerlt-an slaveholder; and of the absolute opposi- 
: ay be a sinner bloody with this guilt, within the hear-] tion ofbtrth to christian principle of common philfm- 

ng of sis voice, the pulpit is false to its trust. j thropy. 

^Daniel TrVebstcr, hi allusion to the Sieve trade. 9, That we eertlinlly respond to the nominations mitJc 

by tw if e; rsive national conventions, of James (•: 
Birney ard Thomas Morris, for President and Vic:- 
President of thsi United States, and pledge ourselves to 
do whuf we can to ensure them the electoral votS of 
this Slate. 



Tax our lands, villify our country, carry the sword of 
• .nination through our defenceless villages; but spa e 
i impl'ee yon. iiie curse of slavery that bitterest 

hop iioni il e chalice of the tiestroying angel! 



Faulkner ) of Western Vutjlda. 



10, That we'present to our fellow citizens the names 
of Darius Wells, James HoU'e, 
Thomas V. Johosun, Alexander H. Fremah, Stpehen 



Grimes, anc 



Charles F. Glark as 



citable men for Pres- 
idential Electors, true to liberty arid the nominees ol 
the national liberty convention. 

11, That we hold it to be the duly of the Conven- 
tion now sitting, to form a. new constitution for this 
State, to follow the example so nobly set by ri.e State 
of Rhode Island, and recommended by GoveniO! jjaiu win 
of Connecticut, by securing the elective franchise to our 
citizens without distinction of color. 

12, That the whole course of the preaent national ad- 
ministration in reference to Texas; the negotiation of the 
treaty of annexation, and subsequent preparation for hos- 
tilities with Mexico, is a most finished tod expressive 
specimen of slaveholding impudence, contempt of funda- 
mental law, and the wishes of the nations, ahd ought to- 
be regarded us a merited punishment to the peo ple fot 
their outrage upon humanity in elevating f he slave, holder 
to office. 

13, That we appoint Derius Wells, Wright Flaveil, 
Josiah P. Huntoon, Isaac VanBlarcorn, Benjamin Crane, 
John Lee, John A. Paine, John Grimes and Alexander 
H. Freeman, to act as a State central corresponding com- 
mittee until the next convention, with power to fill va- 
cancies. 

14, That when we adjourn, We adjourn to meet at 
the call of the Central Committee. 

15, That the thanks of the convention are due, and 
are hereby given, to the proprie(er of this house for the 
accommodations gratuitously furnished. 

16, That the proceedings of this convention with thti 
resolutions be signed by its officers and published unde/r 
the direction of the central committee . 



Wm. F. Gardner^ Secretary. 



John Lee, President. 



TRUE COURAGE. 
What ia Uue courage? Is it that boisterous spirit which 
brings itself into notice v/hen there is no danger, fight- 
ing boldly in time of peace, and winning laurels ait the 
quiet fireside; that talks long and loudly of meeting op- 
position and difficulty with firmness; but wheu tb.e hour 
arrives that tries men's souls shrinks away in it;* little- 
ness, leaving no'okenof its existence save the echoing 
mutterings of discontent at ways meant & employed? Is 
not true courage rather that calm, selfposse^; led, unos- 
tentatious spirit that shrinks from boasting, Lu tviien the 

hour of trial comes, firm as the adamantine, rock, it I erty and justice, they assert that they have rights in 



EW JERSEY ANTI SLAVERY CONVENT! 

Newark, May 10, 184^. 
In accordance with a call made by the Executive 
Committee of the New Jersey And Slavery Society, 
lie friends of liberty convened in the Free Church at 
half past 11 A. M. The meeting was called to order 
uy Win. L. Parsons, James Howe of Jersey City was 
appointed Chairman pro. tern,, and Wm. F Gardner of 
Newark, Secretary. 

Xhe m eeting was opened with prayer by brother Amos 
G Bernan of New Haven, when Jacob L Brotherton of 
Dover was appointed to take the roll of the meeting. 
On ufotion of Ellison Conger, it was Resolved, that all 
individuals from other States attending our 
meeting, be invited to participate with us in our pro- 
ceedings. On motion, after some discuseion, it was Re- 
solved, That brother George W, Clark of N, York be 
invited to sing an Anti Slavery Ode: when he saug the 
blitid slave boy, with much effect. It was then Resolved, 
thz t a committee be appointed to prepare business for 
the afternoon, to consist of T D Weld. J. Grimes, W L 
Persons, S. I. Dorrahce, J. H. Martyn, E. W. Goodwin, 
S. E. Cornish. 

Resolved, that A. N. Dougherty, and Peter Courter, 
be a committee to procure and distribute notices for the 
meeting this evening. 

The meeting then adjourned to 3 oclock P. M- 
At 3 oclock P. M. the convention came to order, and 
J. Grimes was chosen President. 

Prayer was offered by brother Shepherd of Troy, & 
Abel Brown of Albany offered for consideration the 
tract subject, a as means to forward the Anti Slavery 
cause, in a few very appropriate remarks. 

The business committee reported by their chairman, 
the following resolutions, which, after much interresting 
discussion, participated in by Messrs.Shepherd, Brown 
Godwin, Dougherty, Beamau and others, and an Ode 
by Mr. Clark; were adopted. 

1, Resolved, That by uniting in communities, men 
proclaim that they have interests in common; by erec- 
ting these communities into governments, based upon 
onstitution embodying the essential principles of lib- 



meets it, and despite the influence of public opinion, the 
contempt of the world dares to do right, dare s to be hon- 
est, just, true to Goo, to itself, to its country, 
and to the world, dafes under all circum: stances to do 
unto others as It would be done by; th ; k is a courage 
far more noble than that which lays prosti . rate on the field 
of battle, thousands of lacerated dying; beings cut off 
from existence, in the full enjoyment of life, and in all 
the vigor of manhood, leaving broken hearts, to bewail 
in their desolate homes, the horrors and miseries of 
ruthless war Is it true courage thait sends the chal- 
lenge? that, regardless of the laws of God, heedless of 
the still small voice that 6peaks froni the heart, "take 
not the life of thy brother man," stands a fellow being 
uncalled into the world of spirits? Is it true courage 
that takes from the mother, the staff and comfort of her 
old age, and causes her with unutterable anguish to 
mourn the untimely fate of her first born and only soni* 
Is it true courage, that separates fibreverft'om th>. i ister, 
the loved companion of her childhood, the brother who 
shared in ail her pursuits, and lays him low in all the 
vigor of youth a mournful! spectacle of duelling? Is it trut 
courage that, deprives a large and dependent family of 
its head and protector, thitt makes the children father- 
less and causes the widowed wife to exclaim in all the 
eloquence of grief: I feannot bt; CornfortSd? Is it not true 
courage that refuses the challenge, that regardless of the 
imputations of cowardice, answersl fe&r Godanff Ihav^ 
no other feat Such was the courage of Paul, of Martin 
Luther, and of Our own Washington. Such is the cour- 
age that sust; ins evHy upright man amid all the diffi- 
culty and oppsition that he meets with; that nerves him 
to endure every trial, and in the true spirit of genuine 
christian courage to exclaim I feftr God and I have no 
other fear. D. 



He who upholds oppressiofi shares ;he Qrim*» HorCard. 



ommon; that these rights are inalienable, that they are 
exposed to outrage, and therefore are equally and in 
common entitled to whatever protection these princi- 
ples secure to them, which protection- each claims for 
himself and pledges to eveijy other, and to all. 

2, Resolved, That to secure by law, special privileges 
honors, powers and emoluments, to one class of per- 
sons, excluding therefrom all freemen of any other class, 
ia subversive of the principjes of a republican govern- 
ment," that any government establishing such a prvileged 
class, erects an aristocracy of the most exclusive caste, 
pensioned and perpetuated by the most odious monop- 
olies. 

3, Resolved, That any vaunting its Democracy, yet 
restricting the right of suffrage and eligibility to office, 
is hypocritical in its pretences and in its boat- 
ings, is traitorous* to its principles, and guilty of aposta- 
ey from tiie faith it profebses. 

4, Resolved, That when this exclusion from rights and 
privileges is founded upon the color of the skin, impie- 
ty to ward God whose gocd pleasure hath thus shaded 
the faces of a portion of his equal children, is added to 
atrocious outrage upon republican principles and the 
rights of man. 

5, Resolved, That the law of this State which ex- 
eludes from the right of suffrage and ^legibility to office, 
with all the immunities appertaining thereto, and the 
respectful estimation arising therefrom, all free persons 
of color, thus converting their complexion into a badge 
of degradation and a brand of d.sfranchisement; is a law 
unworthy of a free people, k blot upon republican insti- 
tutions and justly subjects aj professedly Christian State 
to the scoffs of infidelity and heathenism the world 
over. 

6, Resolved, That as all humafl beings possets human 
nature, and as all human righta spring from human na- 
ture; therefore all human {^eirigs have rights, and the 
same rights, consequently ire in common with the fra- 
mers of the Declaration o ; Independence, "hold these 

ru ths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal 
ate." 

7, Resolved, That as all human beings are equal in 
ights, the lights of all are equally entitled to protection 



and therefore it is the sacred dtify of every governmt nt 
equally to protect those whose rigks are equal, conse- 
quently, if a government claiming to be republican :n 
-cts a code of laws to secure i . •>. portion of its peo- 
ple, their rights nd another code expressly to v rest a- 
way from another theirs; it is in this respect a despotism 
unspeakably mo: e vile and detestable than that of the 
Czar6 or the Sultans v inasmuch as while it preaches lib- 
erty ,it practices slavery; while shouting equality, it takes 
those whom it declares and decrees equals and 
makes a part of them proprietors, and the other part 
property; while prating about inviolable rights it wrests 
from human beings all their rights and dooms to slavery 
their unhorn offsprings. Sr.ch a despotism is our Slave- 
hoding Republic. 

Sj Therefore Resolved, the guilt and infamy, of such 
a ditspotism, and of such hypocrisy & falshood, cleave 
to every American, and to every Jerseyman, who refu- 
ses to make his life, in his social, political and ecclesi- 
astical relations, a testimony aginst such an enormity. 

^Resolved, That slavery exists in the Southern 
States of this Union by the consent and power of the 
North; and that therefore we are verily guilty concern- 
ing our brother. 

10, Resolved, That mora! suasion is a means of pre- 
paring the public mind for efficient action for the overthrow 

of slavery, and therefore not to be abandonded; Aud 

that as shivery is sanctioned and sustained by law, we 
are pointed for efficient action to the Ballot Box, as an 
instrumentality for the overthrow of slavery & for let- 
ting the oppressed go free. 

11, Revolved, That Henry Clay, in advancing the fol- 
lowing sentiment in his late letter on annexation, " it is 
less dishonorable to inflict an tffet of injustice upon a pow- 
erful than a weak foreign nation" has unintefttionally 
but most truly spoken a lesson of terrible import to A- 
merican oppressor*. 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to 
memorialize the Convention about to assemble to revise 
the Constitution of this state, on the subject of human 
rights; to attend the wid Convention, and in all proper 
and respectful ways- to urge upon that Convention the 
duty of regarding" the rights of all men without distinc- 
tion of color, and the injustice of entailing upon the peo- 
ple of this state, a Constitution that makes-such distinc- 
tions. 

The Convention then adjourned to meet again in the 
evening. 

At 8 oclock an ode was sung by Mr. Clark, and 
prayer was offered by Mr. Shepherd of Troy, N. Y. 

The President reported the names of Samuel I. Dor- 
rance, Alexandei H. Freeman and Jacob L. Brother- 
ton, as the committee to memorialize the State Con- 
vention for revising the Constitution. 

The remainder of the evening was occupied bv Mr. 
Weld with his lecture on "Truth and its hindrances," 
and a few Odes by Mr. Clark, and the Convention ad- 
journed. 



The delay in issuing the first No. of the New Jersey 
Freeman, which we intended to send out the first of the 
month, has been unavoidable, and we send it out now 
without being entirely ready. Whatever apologies are 
necessary for the appearance of the print and other things 
connected wilh the mechanical part of the work, we ex- 
plain by saying that we are not printers by profession, 
i and we do not know much about it, and we print with 
a press of our own construction-. If our readers will 
have a little patience we will, without doubt, make 
some improvement. We trust our numerous typograph- 
ical errors will be excused under the circumstances. 

If any apologies are necessary on account of the Edi- 
torial defects, we must say that we can only devote an 
occasional moment to this business, having our daily 
and hourly duties to perform in another profession. In 
this matter also we intend to make improvements. 

We invite the friends of Liberty and Temperance to 
aasist in this particular, to send on short communica- 
tions, post paid, for insertion in the Freeman, remem- 
beringthe size of our sheet. Let the articles be. short, 
and let them bo. worth reading. 



Daniel Q'Cojm^ell 
By the arrival of the steamship Acadia on the 19th, 
information has been received that Daniel O'Connell 
has been sentenced to fine and imprisonment: the fine is 
i£2,000 and imprisonment twelve calendar mouths. 



POETRY. 

SweeJ Spring ! isl! '-lad in flowers, 
VVe welcome thee with juvotis heart; 

T' ou eome'sf fo deck eg;;in our bowers, 
Aud b'lmy fragrance 'o int. art. 

In ci-orai numbers from e*ch {»»<)£->, 

!' ;« f'e.ith.-reJ thois their gl.idness aibg- 
Aii nature teerning into life 

its tribute to thy Coming bribes. 

Al nature greets thee with spile, 

>r Birth, and sea, u->ite their so <«s. 
Tiie tBOuhtuins, labs, the bil's and yaKs, 
The smiling chorus still prolongs. 

All's happv S nv» the ssuhing slave, 

Bowed down, a bcate, and sad opposed. 

Jfat 1 re may-joy, may smile airi sin .-, 
Spring is to him a dreary w;as;e, 

Littleton April 1844. 



Fine Cartridge Box, . e Fi •»»•«! Box, and the 

Ballot box. 



• c following lutes from tbe pen of Mrs. Bailey of 
Ciiwiimati, we believe are founded ©u these cireum- 
e: A family cueisting of l%» parents and four 

filukJrw, one of wh.cd ivaabiind w, re sold and forever 
separated; first the fatter, then three of the children, 
hen the mother ard finally the little blind boy was 
*>ld for one dollar. 1 1 §lV e3 a thriling exhibition of 
'he heart-rending agonies which thousands suffer at the 
South; outrage* that are justified by the lawaof all the 
slave Stnfei in the Union. 

i hey h ive ken set to excellent music by Mr. G. W. 
v lark of ICaw York. 

THE BJLIJfB SLAVE BOY" 

Cone b.ick t. me mother, why linger away, 
! rou-i thy poor little blind boy. tbc long wearv day; 
I .uttrk every footstep. I -list to e!u -h tone, 
.\< d w<. !)£ i. r my mo her fhouH leave me ulone. 

i'lteie are voices of eorrtfcv and voices of glee, 
Bui there's >>o one to joy or to sorrow with me : 
F'-r each baih of pleasures and trouble his share, 
And none for the poor litile blind boy^will care. 

My mother come back to me close to thy breast 
Onto more let thy poor little blind one be pressed 
Once more let me feel tty warm breath on my check, 
And hexr then in accents of tenderness apwli 

0} mother. I 've no one fo love me— no heari 
Can bear like thine ow n in my sorrows a par, 1 , 
No hand in 60 gentle, no toice Is * 0 kind, 
Oh , none hko a mother 'cherish the !>H&r!. 

Corn? back to me ;t.yifc.. r why Wnper awav, ' • 

From thy poor litti, blind b«.y the Urn* Jean day 
T mark every fo ntep, I list to each (one. 
And uo:.dc . my toother hath left mo alone 

Poor Mw>d oh» no mother thy wailing can hear, 
No n.o'-i ir fan beatep to banish l by f ( ar 
For the si iye-ow tier drives her o it mountain and wild, 
And for one paltry dollar hath sold thee, poor child. 

Ah who can in language of mortal revea 

" 'bat none bat a mother can feel, 
* ' ;" wan '» »is vile Inst ofdoniinitm hath trod 
Ou \vA child, who hi stricken and ••...itten of God. 



We heard & quai.i t >] I gentleman a few evenings 
since, speak ii.g upon a suppression of^tfie, rum traffic 
remark, there were but three ways of Kyialating the 
matter. Out was the Cartridge box. Hut that would 
never do hi these days. A i: other was the Band box, 
alias smooth words and (air s-'eechoV, in oral suasion, 
which the ruu.s.-ller cared as little aborj , t us did the 
'toy on the apple tree, the ojd mail's grass! We jmust 
go to ihe Bullot box, re t ie piestion ot'llicense or no 
license brought to the poils ( and submitted to the peo- 
hle. if we are beat, rryagai . aoi i- ; trying until 
we bring the comm r. ; .'v to , by a s»r.inl' vote, they 
will be^ffiicted »;it.h the cm ■ no lou««r \ 

Jtmrmul of the Temperanai Union. 



Hhiid, helpless, forsaken, wit': grangers alonej 
'>hv heer* in her anguish his piteous mojno ; 
ls heeageryl listens— but listens in vain,' 
ratch the loved tones ofhi. n other again. 

h«> ctnsa of the broken in f{ i it sh : ,|i f a j] 

" ' he w;, ' etcn u hobarh mingldS this ..ormwotd ,and 
gall, 

J" 1 "ke a u.ild«w shall blight and d<*trov, 

Bfth torn ficm • i., , H h,r tn <: little blind hoy. 

; -.««mber. Heaven h fcS au uvengip^ rod __ 
i'- ;c: tc tli,. r K ,'-i- ;S l egso.t o-aiott God. 



THE DBi'IKABiB'S I.9«IC. 

Overseer of the poor. Well, Tom, l'vn come to 
put you all into ihe po'u-hotise. Your wife (says she 
can stand it no fapnger, for she cannot get fool ! lor the 
children. 

Tom. — Whatever i.-, is right, I sV ,J se, us thii gram- 
mar book used t« aay. We've all suffered enough, if 
that's all. feu.', it is all 'ici.i.r<litig to law. The law 
said there might be a -h.,p. and the, select-mctft said 
there ought to be a I hap, mid sart bed that otd Red 
Face down there was t'ie best m"Q to keep it, and he 
has made me a dtunka -'i, atd got all my property, and 
now let the town take care of us. I've been thinking 
on't, and it seems to me right, that if a town will let 
then make drunkards and paupers, it ought to hike 
care of them. It seems strange to me that the Legis- 
lator hadn't made a law to bu Id great rich houses to 
put the few rumsellers in; and iben there would have 
been no use for poor houses, sartin. Now twenty years 
ago I «as better off th'o'n Rod Nose; I could have paiti 
cash dowu for him, but he set up bv me, and I took 
little to wet his siga— to hind a harg« : t), etc. till I lost « 
all in his shop, and i» just so with a dozen more of us. 
How much the town wo id have saved had they put 
him into the public ke-pi. rather than al) of us. 
But he's as big a drunkard a* lam, only he can be 
sick, and lay down, and have ride, or the doctor, and 
dress well. But it's a!! \ H% aud he>1 , 800Q bc there 
too, and then I 'll.settle with him. 
Overseer. Are you ready? 

Tom. Ay, ay, sir. I couHn't help thinking there 
was something brewing when the old feller sniffld, and 
said Ais was the last I should ave of him. Well now 
'squir, , I 'rh desput glad they've sent a decent looking 
man arte me, for, if yoa!lTbelieve it, when they sent 
me to the Houiso of Cdrnecti m. the constable was so 
drunk that the beeper was confoundedly bothered to 
tell which he shmiid ke&j, :<wi if the constable had come 
this time, and been slhii up iu the Pi orhous'l with mv 
wife, instead of me, thru T \\ lost mv chance, but now 
I'hope to reform aa(V>f 1 hrlfty did. I little thought 
when Ibo»ig>it h."..r a> d ope: d my carpenter's shop, 
that I should get on th.j wrong side f that fence. But 
it is iiFl/erw. all right, ,1 spose. tbo fdont understand 
the policy of it. I am glad you've com.-. Tarn indeed 
sir. The hewlaw/dont stop them vet, in d 1 see no way 
to change hut to be shut up out of their reach, that's 

all, sir, and out of the reach of everybody, that's all 

nothing short, sir, will do it. Ji«t so f can help drink- 
ing when I sees the door rWei*. and {Jed Nose smack- 
ing bis lips so! Thafs al, sir, 1 -.1 go, sir. 



plirdge, and .another meeting was called fur with but 
one disscnn 1 ':ig <oice. and ivhen the question arose, 
where should trie next meeting be held, we were iu- 
formed that the rum-seller would let us have his bara 
anv day ofth-- vw rk except the 3abhath, he did not 
wish the holy Sabbath desecrated by sue!- meetings. 

Now if this same rum-s. Her does not deal out his 
soul-damtimg poison on the sabbath, he (lore not hes- 
itate to deal it out to every loafer that calls, every other 
day oi the week, and on Saturday night it they de-ice 
it, enough to keep them drunk all dnv on Sunday. 

He need not mink to make others believe his regard 
for the sabbath, any tiling b tter than barefaced hypoc- 
risy whle he continues to deal out the deadly pr ison 
to his fellow beings, knowing it to be suck. The rum- 
seller is the devil's chief agent in tbe business of sab- 
bath-breading as well »» in disturbing the peace of 
the e ummunity on all other daysj and we believe i; ie 
the. soJmin duty of every lover of God's laws to "spare 
no efforts, but to labpr on all davs, and in ail ph.ee*, 
to hold up his detestable business before the world in 
'ts true light. We. call upon all those Ministers and 
Deecons that oppose temperu nee and otber v iiioraT re- 
form meetings on the Sabbath, to look into this mat- 
ter and see if the language of the rum-seller's heart 
is not "you're the Ministers and Deacons for i e." 



The llum-Seller's tender regard for the 
SAB MS A TH. 

Not Jong since, we were invited * 0 hold ■„ Temperance 
meeting in the. neighborhood of a newly established 
rum seller, and as ifb convenient housa could be obtain- 
ed tor the meeting, itwafto be held under the the trees. 

The day however proved unp'easant, and a barn was 
procured for the meeting, which w as to be held on the 
Sahlwth, it being very inconvenient forth, poeple to 
itteurJ any ether day. The ini abitants turned out in 
great nhmbers aud gave mos ah quivocal damaastra- 
tionsbfAfcir con tern pt|for th rum-selter-s traffic; the 
meeting wh one of great i merest, addresses were'giv- 
en by a-.verrd i^di ■-..! >a'«. a ;.*>.! „„mber sighed th 



THE committee appointed at the last meeting of 
the State Society te prepare an address to the poeple of 
Ne w Jersey, to report at the next meting of the Society 
whtch will be in August, now consists of Messrs T. D. 
Weld, and John Lee. We Iwpe they will not fail t» 
report at the August meeting . 

FOURTH OF JULY. 

The Boonton VVasiiingtonians have re* 
solved to celebrate the (approaching Anni- 
versary ©four National- tndipendence with 
out the aid of rum and gun powder, and 
cordially invite all the friends of Temper- 
a nee in the adjoining villages to co-operate 
with them in this praiseworthy work. 

notice! 

Theodore D. Weld will lecture on 
Tem perance in the Free Church in this vil- 
lage, on Monday evening next, June 24th 

On the following evening, (Tuesday.) he 
will dt Oliver an address on the subject ol 
Anti Slavery, at the same place The ex- 
ercises will commence at 8 oclock. 

The public are respectfully invited to at 
tend. IVo one who has ever listened to Mr 
Weld, wi.U fail tn hear him as often as he 
has the opportunity. 

Boonton,, June, 20th, 1844. 



The (blow ing individuals will help on the 
cause of liberty by acting aa agents forth;* 
paper. 

Jacoc L. E'rothertoit. 
John Lee, West Bloomfield. 
C. Peloubet BlooninV..: 
Richard Kclsai, Orange, 
Win. F. Giudnei. Newark, 



Wright Flavell, 
James Howe, 



Paterson. 
Jersey City, 



Joseph J. Fft&WMd, West Mil lord 
Steplien Gv\' 108, Stanhope, 
Kphraim C . . V Succasunna, 
Peter EUis, Crossvviik-, 
Baxtr Sayrt , Madison 

l^ny other frij^n" of liberty, will coi.,. , 
a favor and aid on the cause of Freedom 
dy helping in the eirmlatiou of this paper * 



rct7 




VOL. I. 



THE FEE EM AN 



"WILL BE PL'BL. 

Boonlor., Mon 



ED MONTHLY BY 

grimes' 

County, New Jer.iey. 



1 Jf R M S . 
Single copy 2p ceni/per annum, or for 12 numbers. 
10 copies to one adders for two dollars. 
All communication* must bo post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage 

■ For rhffNew Jersey Freeman. 
FtfURTH OF JULY. 
Mr. Editor, The Fourth of July is a day 'which brings 
•with it association! peculiarly instructing to every re- 
flecting mind. I« identity With the history of this na- 
tion is somewhayana' tgous to the Passover in that of an- 
cient Israel ; ana like that event, ought to be observed 
as a religious festival. As the Temperance cause pro- 
gresses we fusel a nearer approximation to this way 
of observing 

As we bad yesterday no celebration in our Town, I 

went to witness the proceedings in N , & thought 

there appeared to be something of a retrogressive move- 
ment in their mode of conducting the exercises. 

The War/spirit seems to be reviving. Several new 
companies of yov.ng men have recently been formed who 
were dressed in gaudy uniforms of red, blue and green 
&c, and efiecteu quite a military display. The house of 
convention being crowded, i did not get in to hear the 
Oratio^, but understand it was very eloquent. 

In the afternoon the Children of the di 1 '* it-rent Sabbath 
* Schools were convene a in one of the Churches ant', 
addressed by several Rev. Gentlemen, and afterwards 
treated very handsomely to refeshmerits of various kinds, 
an excellent custom, which ought to be adopted in ev- 
ery neighborhood . 

The Rev. Gentleman who first addresed them said 
he would take a text which he did not know was in 
the bible untill he saw it upon an old bell that was cast 
about seventy years ago, and put up in the belfry of the 
State House in Philadelphia. 

The text inscribed upon it was, "Proclaim LIBER- 
TY throughout all the land, TO ALL THE INHAB- 
ITANTS THEREOF." Certainly a more suitable text 
could not have been selected, and it is a pity that min- 
isters of the. Gospel do not more generally find out 
that such texts are in the bible! 

The text being announced, now "thinks 1 to myself" 
the children will have an opportunity of knowing the 
condition of the millions of their fellow beings in this 
land of "liberty" who are held in ignominious bondage; 
and will be taught that it is their duty to " remember 
those that are in bonds as bound with them". But what 
was my disappointment w hen, instead of this, he began 
to give the history of that old bell, along with a few rev- 
olutionary legends that had been worn "thread-bare" half 
a century ago! and concluded by hoping that the ri- 
sing generation would imbibe the spirit that actuated 
the heroes of Seventy Six. In fact, 1 did not hear the 
: least inlimp.'ion given by any of the speakers upon thar 
oceasion, thai there w as such a thing as a slave in oil 
the United States. Such is a simple statement of facts. 

Comment is needless. 

Yours in haste. 

VIATOR. 

Comment is indeed needless, if it be to show the w>k 
pd : . ncy of these "Rev* Gentlemen". Th ey have 
f > ■: <! to preach the whole gospel, and yet with V 
;.•>:• ;i V liberty throughout all the land, to ah tb 
1 is a i hereof ' before them, they could not re- 
lixtini-.M the :,iave of theii own land even on the fourth 



BOOWTOJV, JULY, 1844. 

of July. Such men are either utterly regardless of the 
wretchedness of the slave or are' afraid of losing their 
stations in a corrupt church; in either case, they are un- 
fit to stafcd as sentinels on the walls of Zion; and yet we 
believe, though with the deepest mortification, that this 
is a fair specimen of nine tenths of the Rev. Gentlemen 
in the State of New Jersey— "0! Tell it not in Gath." i 



We have received the following from a friend of lib- 
erty in New Jersey; containing the pay for four copies 
of the FREEMAN, and if every Abolitionist in the 
State will do the same, we will issue our paper every 
week. Twenty five cents is not a convenient sum to 
send by mail, and if each frend of liberty in the State 
will send on one dollar the difficulty our friend speaks 
of would be obviated, and each one wouldjjave some to 
distribute among Lis neighbors. 

Mr. Editor, I have received the first No. of the "New 
Jersey Freeman" and like both its title and contents. 

Although it is small compared with the hundreds of 
pro-slavery papers that flood the country, still a small 
'•'freeman" is better than a large bondman — an epithet 
equally appropriate to ail those papers devoted to the 
interests of slaveholding candidates. However I have 
one objection to it. Instead of once a month I think it 
ought to be issued weekly, which at the same rate would 
only cost one dollar, a sum easier transmited by maii 
than twenty five cents, and which surely no 'liberty man' 
would scruple to pay. 
As New Jersey is so far behind most of the* free States 
in abolition sentiment and action, it will require some- 
thing more than a monthly periodical to arouse the dor- 
mant energies even of those who profess to be the friends 
of 'equal rights'. However letns not "despise, the day 
of smali things". I hope you Will meet with such en- 
couragement as to induce jou scon to move your print- 
ing estahlishmpnt down to '(M"inefF8p"dns and issue a 
dailv "Freeman." 



FRUITS OF SLAVERY IN CUBA. 

We copy the following from the Emancipator with a 
view of shoving our readers the merciless atrocities, the 
cruelties, the indescribable sufferings, the confusion and 
discord, which necessarily grow out of the slave sys- 
tem. How can any one possessing the soul of a man, 
be silent and inactive while a system is in existence, 
jfrhich is, and always has been, the hot-bed of the most 
merciless ouhages upon humanity. How can an Amer- 
ican be silent, while the scenes in Cuba, can be exhibited 
in our own Country at anytime, produced by the same 
cause — They are only worthy the darkest and most 
barbarous period of the world. 

Atrocities in cub> .—We find in the Philadelphia 
North American a deeply interesting letter, describing 
some of the horrible cruelties porpe'rated by 0' Don 
nell, the governor general of Cuba, and which power- 
fully illustrates the. fruits cf the slave trade, which our 
government will not co-operate to suppress, as well as 
the natural tendency of slavery itself in Cuba, the abo- 
lition of which, the United Spates government has for 
twenty years stood ready to oppose, even to the extent, 
of war. We do trust the attention of the civilized world 
will at length be called to this eas.-, and effectual meas- 
ures be adopted at once, by a concert of nations, to put 
a final period to these atrocities by exterminating the 
cause — slavery in Cuba. The same means of dis- 
covery and of revenge are in use, which are oustomaiiiy 
employed in the United States upon slaves charged wi 
crime — TORTURE. The use of the same engine of 
wrong in the ca: :., of th» Jews at Damascus in 1839, 
'■ailed forth the interposition of most civilized govern- 
ment, ovr own included, with such remonstrances against 
the inhumanity of the "institution" of torture, that the 
pf."ba cf Egypt*^ielded to their persuasions, and pledged 
ujmv If for its immediate ahciiticu. Ti e writer now 
before us, who daus'-H.- « anna, June ftth, 1844," says: 

"Since 1 last wrote you, I have visited Cardenas, now 



NO. 

another ante-chamber of hell. Cruelties at which the 
heart sickens, are daily practised. Hundreds of negrc^ 
have perished under the lash during examination, au 
protesting their innocence to the last. And many, it not 
all of them, as innocent of participation in the plot of an 
insurrection, as the angels in heaven. The place where 
the negroes are w hipped has become very offensive to 
the neighborhood, from the quantity of putrified flesh 
torn by the whip from their backs! A short time since, 
a Florida Indian, a very worthy man, who had long re- 
aided in the island, was arrested on suspicion of being one 
of the insurgents. He was taken to Cardenas, where, 
refusing to criminate himself, he was whipped to eleath! 

On a sugar estate in -hat neighborhood, forty-six ne- 
groes were most cruelly tortured, seven of whom died 
under the operation. On another estate, after attempt^ 
ing in vain to extort confessions of <ju:lt by whipping, 
those fiends, called in Spanish, fiscales, (solicitors) ap- 
plied red hot irons to the bleeding backs of the ne- 
groes." 

Precisely the same measures were pursued at Charles- 
ton in 1822; and not more than three years ago, in the 
case of some negroes w ho were executed at St Louis, 
the means of conviction were procured by the torture! 

But the letter writer thinks there is a call on which 
our government cannot but interfere. — 

American citizens have been crueliy imprisoned and 
punished without cause. He says: 

' "Many white p<?rsins, princ 'pally foreigners, have 
fallen under the displeasure of tho'hateful inquisition. 
Samuel Moffart, of Delaware; William Bisby, of Ver- 
mont, and a Mr Hogan, a native of the United States, 
are among the number. The latter has suffered a long con- 
finement for having in hi.; possession a letter from a 
friend in the United States, advising him to leave the 
island ! The first two named were arrested on testimony 
extorted from a uegro after he had received twelve ban- 

ired 'ashes. 

"On being arrested, ".bey were tied to a gang of ne- 
groes, and in this condition were driven like convicted 
felons, under the scorching rays of a tropical sun, through 
clouds of dust to Cardenas. Mr. M. was confined in the 
stocks, among whipped negroes, loathsome from their 
wounds, twenty days, and in irons ten days. Mr Bisby 
was in the stocks seventeen days, and in irons nine days; 
and would have ended his J&ya in irons, but for the in- 
terposition of a physician, v. no assured the Inquisition 
that he could nor survive tv.entyfoui hours longer, being 
Very ill of a fever. Thereupon, he was taken out of irons, 
and with the medical and other assistance rendered hint, 
he recovered. While at Cardenas, I learned that an early 
representation of these outrages had been made io our 
government, by our consul at that place, Mr. Gage; ami 
it is to be hoped that it v, illnot be passed overunnoticed 

"After a conefinement of seventy days in Cardenas, 
Mozart and Bisby were sent to Matanzas for trial. On 
their arrival, the officers having them in charge, allow- 
ed them to stop at the United States consul's office; 
but the time wa-; so short, the consul, Mr. Rodney,, 
could not obtain from thein a full account of their sufl— 
erir.gs, and called at the prison the next morning, but 
was not allowed to see them. He has, however, as I 
am informed, sent to the governor of the place, a very 
spirited remonstrance against the proceedings of the in- 
quisition, in these and other ceees that have come to his 
knowledge. It is still confidently asserted here, that a 
force is to be sent from the United States, to redress the 
wrongs of our countryman who have suffered unjust im- 
prisonment, on taseless suspicion of having been con- 
cerned in the plot of the insurrection. Until the arri- 
val of this force, little or nothing can be done for their 
relief by oar consuls, who, 1 am proud to say, have 
discharged their duty in the matter." "'-W 

This writer evidently means well, and feels, in view 
of these oatrageous proceedings, as an American shonld. 

But both he and the editors, who publish his letter 
with such expressions of horror at the atrocities disclo- 
edymnstbs very simple indeed, if they imagine any 
thing will be done by our slaveholder government ade- 
quate to the occasion. What is the case? Why, oppr-. s 
sion has driven the negroes to desperation, and an < . 
tensive revolt is the consequence. Immediately, the 
one great dominant principle of all slaveholding comm 
nine*, comes in p'ay — to wit, that every thing in the 
1 world must give way to THE NECESSITIES C 



SLAVERY. It is necessary to make a demonstration 
and to show by actual experiment, that no waste of life, 
n ) refinement of cruelty, no accumulation of suffering, 
wit! be regarded in support of slavery. The morn blood, 
U e more terror, Now what are the rights of a f w 
white, mechanics, in comparison with the display of ter- 
ror required to support slavery? Our government will 
do nothing. Its sympathies are all with O'Donne!). . 

The following statement with regard to poor Moffart, 
' one of the victims, is in character: 

"He came to the island last year in search of em- 
ployment at his trade, that of a carpenter. — He was 
soon engaged to do some work on an estate iuBemba. 

The day after his arrival at the estate, the inwunve. 
tion, of which you have heard, took place. Pmue 
stricken, all the whites except Mr-Moffart fled. He v?ith 
an intrepidity without a parallel, attacked on Horseback 
with a sword, single handed, and kept in check until the 
arrival of the troops, two hundred and fifty negroes, i!e- 
fended by shields and armed with cane -cutters; and" in 
the affray he received twosevere cuts', the marks of which 
he will carry to his grave. If he were a Spaniard, r this 
daring exploit would load him with titles and immortal- 
ize his name. Instead of this, he is now suffering unjust- 
ly in a Spanish prison, the bare mention . of which fills 
me with horror." 

Well poor fellow, it is hard, but he is only a "white 
slave." The writer proceeds: — 

„To 0' Donnell and his tribe, the affair of the insur- 
rection will be very lucrative. Property to the amount 
of $300, 000 belonging to the free blacks andmulattoes 
now under arrest, has been attatched. That all of them 
will he found guilty will be readily percieved by every 
person at all acquainted with the villany and cupidity of 
the Spanish tribunal. Independently of O' Donnel's 
sallary as governor general, his proportion of the plun 
der, added to the gratification of $17 per head for even' 
negro landed by fee slaves, will give him, this year, a 
handsome fortune." 

We wish our predictions may prove fallacious, and 
that for once, in a case involving the rights of white free 
laborers on one hand, against the blind and brutal venge- 
ance of slaveholders on the other, our government may- 
act like a government; but so deep are our impressions, 
that nothing short of seeing the deeds done will lead us 
to expect any suitable action in the case. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, JULY 2.\ 1S44. 



Let us throw offthe mask — 'tis a cobweb one at best, 
and the world will see through it. It will not do thus to 
talk like philosophers, and act like fairclcntivg tyrants; 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our te\-t, 
and actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. J'inc.kney, of Maryland. 



In all things that have beauty, 
more comely than LIBERTY 



there is nothing to man 

Millon. 



LIBERTY ELECTORAL TICKET FOR 
^ . NEWjpRSEY, 
DariftsW(}is, Ja nes Howe, Thomas V. Johnson, Alex- 
ander II. Freeman, Stephen prunes, Alexander Black 
Sampriel Hall. 



THE NEW CONSTITUTION 

In the middle of the nineteenth Century, we would 
expect a convention of enlightened freemen in New 
Jersey, to produce a Constitution worthy of freemen; 
yet the fruits of the late convention, are enough to make 
any liberal soul blush, & 'his Constitution was adopted 
in convention with but one nay. It is mortifying in- 
deed to think, that 58 Jerseymen can spend six weeks 
in convention, and then produce' an instrument so far 
behind the age: and it is still more mortifying to find 
the perfect apathy with which it is received by the peo- 
ple of the State, for as far as we know not a single New 
Jersey Editor has spoken out against it. 

It prohibits any move for amendment oftener than 
once in five years, and has a great many other very ob- 
jectionable things about it: bi.t the most objectionable 
item* is.the 'disfranchisement of the people of color. 

It begins by saying. '-All men are by nature free and 
independent," carefully leaving out the word "equal," 
and then declares tfont ' every white male citizen" only 
shall be allowed to vote. We do not know that a sin- 
gle objection was made in the convention to this arti- 
cle, we are certain that not one oote was given agai nst 
it on its final adoption, for the oae nay above mention- 
ed was given for other reasons. 

The peop'e of color have been unconst ilulwnally de- 
denrived of their votes; for the old constitution did not 
disfranchise them. They were disfianchised by an act 
of the Legislature only, but if five constitution be 
adopted bv the people of this Stale, they will be cut off 
with no remedy, but another revision of the Constitution 
which according to this document cannot be brought be- 
fore the people ©fte ier then once in five years. 

It will be seen b y a notice in another colum that the 
Boontonians intend to look into the merrits of this doc- 
ument before the Election, will it be done iu other parts 
of Ihe State >. 



PUBLIC DISCUSSION. 

There will bo a public meeting in the Free Church 
in Boonton on Friday ; v mug August 2d, for me pur- 
pose of discussing the merits of the NEW CONSTI- 
TUTION which is to be presented to the people of 
New Jersey on the 2d, Tuesday in A"gust. tor adop- 
tion. 

All parties are invited to attend and participate in 
the discussion 



ANTI SLAVERY MEETINGS. 

In this boasted land of liberty we would suppose that 
there would be no difficulty in obtaining a suitable house 
in any village to hold anti-slavery meetings in. Bnt 
just the reverse is the case. There is not perhaps one 
in ten of the Towns and Villages in New Jersey, in 
which even a school house can be had for this pnrpose; 
when the best houses should be cheerfully trhowij open 
for the promotion of a cause, for which our ancestors 
were ready to "sacrifice their lives, their fortunes, and 
their sacred honor." 

Why is this? is a question that deserves serious inves- 
tigation Is it because the doctrines we advocate are not 
believed to be founded on truth? then why should any 
be afraid to have discussion on these points, for if they 
are not based upon truth, investigation would show their 
fallacy and there would be the end. This is evidently 
not the reason. The true reason in out view is entirely 
the reverse. Our Anti Slavery views are based upon the 
principles of everlasting truth; such as are laid down in 
language not to be misunderstood in the Bible, and in- 
corporated into the Declaration of American Independ- 
ence; such as wise and good men, in all ages of the \\ orld 
have recognised as truths that ought to govern men in 
all their actions. This we believe to be the true reason 
why the advocates of liberty cannot be heard, viz that 
their doctrines stand fixed, immutably fixed, from their 
very natures, upon the rock of truth. 

When truth is advocated, firmly, faithfully and with 
zeal; error is always in danger; corrupt systems totter 
to their foundations, consternation is into the camp of all 
those parties, whether in Church or State, that are 
not bound together by the genuine love of Justice. 

When we assail any popular systems we are compell- 
ed to contend with all the powers that be: almost every 
Dignitary in Church or Suite will be sure to plant him- 
self in the way. 

This is emphatically true in reference to the slave 
question. The unwillingness of the clergy to have 
churches opened for Anti Slavery discussions, has its 
true origin in the conscious belief that their churches 
are too corrupt to bear the light, which wonld be poured 
upon them by the preaching of Aim fflavery truths. 

The true reason why churches can be divided, by 
such preaching, is, that they have lost the spirit of 



where the truth isand so almost every church door in 

tha State is closed gainst us. 

The same may b said with regard to the two great 

political parties, the Yhigs and Democrats. The whigs 
tell us, they are the oily true friends of the slave, but 

make application in any village or town where whig in- 
fluence preponderates, for a house to hold an anti sla- 
very meeting in and we are told "you cannot hold such 

meetings here, because 'he doctrines you advocate are 
injuring the prospects of Henry Clay. 

"If j ou will go with the whigs md electfljfrat great 
slaveholder and slaveholdiag defender Henry Clay (Pres- 
ident, you could have the best place to hold your meet- 
ings in, with all other accommodations necessary, but 
as it is you can have no Hustings here." This is no 
misrepresentation, we have ihe best evidence on hand 
to prove its correctness. 

The Democrats as a body, are alive to everything 
chat will further loco foco inteiests, will give the friends 
of the slave not the least corner of the country to hold 
Anti Slavery meetings in, unless they can see that, in 
some way it will favor the entrance of another great 
slave holder in the Presidential chair. 

In short there is an unspeakable meanness on the part 
of the leaders in their parties, and among the dignitaries 
of the church, with very few exceptions indeed, a mean- 
ness that deserves the unqualified contempt of everv 
liberal souled man — while boasting of their democracy, 
they are striking down free discussion and show thai 
their democracy consists in gaging- every one that dares 
• to express an opinion of his own, when that opinion 
i does not coincide with their own contracted and illib- 
eral views. We call, and shall continue to call, upon 
all true republicans toseperate themselves forever from 
parties of this description, if they cannot exercise com 
mon courtesy towards those who differ with them, only 
upon condition that they must enter the ir service, and 
labour to promote their views, they show that while 
they are boasting of their love of liberty, they are liv- 
ing down the great principles of Republicanism and are 
deserving of our supreme contemnt. ^• 

We have delayed the publication of the present No. 
of the Freeman 1 ; in order to get answers to written ap- 
plications we have made in several places for a house to 
hold our semi-annual meeting in, and we have received 
negative answers in all these cases, and that too for the* 
reasons specified above. We have now published the 
meeting te be held at Madison, and never fell the duty 
to oppose and expose, the corruptions and*ypoe raiy of 

the great political parties of the land more than at the 

present time. 

Right of Suffrage Denied'.— We think the curse 

of the New Jersey Const tutmnal Convention, in nois- 
ing to extend the right of suffr age to colored persons 
-siy educated colored men, if yon please- will, at this 
day. create som - surprise among the friends of sound 
Republican lustotitious. N.Y.Sun. 



"NO FAITH WITH HERETICS" I 
Our Agent obtained die consent of the till 
hold a meeting ilPthe Melh odist Church at Ml 
in this County, on the 5,th inst, and when the t 
rived, the key was abducted, aud the meeting! 
church prevented. However a private house wd, 
ened and a good meeting held. Ths friends 01 
there will not submit <o this state of things much! 



MOBOCRACY ' 
Our Agent attempted to hold a meeting in th 
house at Flanders in this county a short time si 
cording to previous appointment, by the request 
citizens. When the time arrived a great numbe 
baser sort collected around and by throwing stoi 
eggs not as much adhd as their bead-, firing gu 
looing, shouting, &c disturbed the meeting. Pi 
they w.>«> not so much to blame as the reitjxr.'cbl 
woi leers in the back ground. 

Th" friends of liberty in Manders have a hea\ 
sponsil.ility resting on them, and we h< pe they fee' 

WARREN COUNTY COMING::: 



sucn preaching, is, mai mey nave iosi me spun uium WAKKEN COUNTY COMING^ 
Christianity; hence, are not worthy of, and ought not to qq lc friends in this County are preparing to 
have our support. Anti Slavery discussions are unpop- Mass A nti-SJaverv Meeting, on ha^Oih 0) \ i :•_ 
u Jar and ministers must be on the popular side, no matter | Alliimuchv*. A glorious rnllv 1 th»it> 



*or 



New Seise 



God alone is Lord of the conscience', 
and its dictates are wholly without authority, only as 
they are identical with the requirements of God's law 
If a man "for conscience sake" wilhiot vote for the ab- 
olition of slavery, he must honestly believe the la\v of 
God prohibits ids voting, or he has put a yoke upon 
himself which ought never to be born- It is superstition 



r j <"-v unauu' h,/ a oi (.,0(1 or man. 
suppose it were ever so corrupt, is this a good reason 
wmy a chnstmn or a philanthropist .should not vote for 
the release of the slaved think not. Suppose a compa- 
ny oihighwaymen had assumed civil jurisdiction over a 
given territory, and by superior force were holding it, 
and you have no power whatever to overthrow their go v ' 
Jrnn|^t^ They extend the privilege oMoting to a class 
of !he. community in which you are included. They hold 



(Maimer giving; countc- 



<o be governed by a conscience which commands uc to in ,.-.,.,1 i i, ,. 

., . , . ,, ~ l,J LU ' n cr, -u i and hornblc -bondage vour n'fn brntlmr tu„ 

perform tilings not requ red by the law of love Tbccn ' ■• ; . '"»«u a c vour o,m Diotnei. the 

Petition of the Hindoo who" ^Itiou ^^" ^1 T 7, " " ^ ^ ° f 

his life under the wheels of We^m ifi " 1 1 ' , T U ° ™ to ™ te ' wh * ther >™ ^ll 



his life under the wheels of Juggernaut is perfectly man 
ifest; but the principle is the same, though the supersti 
tion may be less gross, whether the conscience demand \l 
one thing or another, a trivial or a momentous thing, 
which the law of God does not require. The conscience 
ot'every man is to be deeply respected; and certainly it 
is no disrespect, rigidly to compare its demands with 
those of God's law. How can we show more due respect 
to the conscience than to acquaint it with the require- 
ments of the divine law? 1 

No man then justly can array his "conscientiovs 
views" against voting as a bar to the investigation of the 



shall be. n-iot-s.-d or continued in bondage, would you 
id would not the act of voting in this case he- 
one? What .would be your intention in vo- 
ting, for in this would lie the character of the act? You 
would intend the well-being of your brother, and the in- 
jury of no one. ThtfJ^tention surely could not be wrong. 
You could not, by voting in this case, be understood as 
upholding the robber government, or in any way coun- 
tenancing it. 

The case is parallel. You may regard' our government 
aacpmipt, asj-unauthd ' 
ersco '.i;- : given voi ' 



question, "What does the law of benevolence require in L ^ZI ^ 

respect to voting for the aboliton of slavery?" S^f S -pt. e you may, nay yc 

Are we vermi^l hv tu;« w , „ ° U * ht 10 " Se lt God and Will justify you. Whi 



Are we required by this law to vote against slavery? 
To those who deny the validity of civil government al- 
together, & hence infer the wickedness of all voluntary 
participation in it, I have a few words to say. 

God certainly did institute civil government over the 
Jewish nation. Dent. 16:18. "Judges and officers shalt 
thou make thee in all thy gates,] which the' Lord thv 
God giveth thee, throughout thj tribes: and thev snail 
judge the people with jyst judgn eut". Other passages 
might be refer, d to. This was e 
its necessity. li'his direct gover 
Vere sufficient why did he requi 
civil rulers and judges? All williidrait that God must 
have been, benevolent in giving thi institution to the Jews . 
And since the necessities of all halions for civil «-ovei-n- 
<ment are equally imperati ve witl those of the Jews; and 
since God is universally bene-; olent, does not his in - 
stituting government in one. nation, in principle amoum 



uivahmt to admittm; 
unent over his peopk 



' On this principle Paul 
PJ omises to individuals 



ion of all men a princi- 
Men as naturally and 
they breathe,. and with 



K rong among men in ii 
my more than they? H 
example, if this is .th 



to his authorising it in all nation 
represents God, when giving hid 

of eld, as speaking to all whosh uld believe in every age 
and as making to them the sa.m. -pi omises. See HcLlty 
Again.'If God regards all go^ ?rnment as assumption 
| why has he put into the constit 
pie which neessarly assumes i 
universally form governments 
no more conscienc qi its being 

Again. If civil government be 
self, why should God institute it 
has certainly set the worlda ba 

case. Does he not intend his co duct shall be -a safe ex 
ample % his creatures to follow ' Why has he command 
ed all his people to subject thei 
'Why does he say that the pow 
ordained of God" if they are n 
thor of sinful institutions? 

Do any say, "government ha 
we can have nothing to do witi 
rupt than was the Roman, wl 

riflhded to honor and obey, tha |Jf y might "put to si- 
lence the ignorance of foolish n in." The abuse of an in- 
stitution does not nullify it. Th marriage and other in- 
stitutions are often abused, In this does not destroy 
them. If government has corriq ed itself, there would 
seem to be the more reason foAhe interference of good 
men to prevent its spreading si 
rows fire-brands and death". 

Do any say that government is ordained in the like 
^y with physical evils, suel 
quakes, and therefore, that we 
with the one than with the otl 

be consistent, and "honor" ibise eviis, must "submit 
- Ives" to ilhni, affd "nol resist" them. 
But suppose civil governmcit were a sheer and wick 



' a:? you pieasf^yetifaninfltt- 
•h yoy can wield for the de- 

. „ ou 

will justify you. White 
you protest against the evils and assumptions of the gov- 
ernment as you think you onght, who can construe your 
>- ;.<e to have the iniquitous slave la.ws^d prisons aboi- 
isned, into an evidence that you approve the «overn- 
ui^it? Paul took the* liberty' to escapfloln the gover- 
nor o$ Damascus wfco wished to apprehend him unjust- 
ly; and wh,t. is the difference in principle, whether he 
eJcapes by the votes, of hi.fbrethren orbrffeir "letting 
torn down by the waMhrough a windowWa basket i " 
j.The same principle which' justifies the slave in Tnak- 
>ttgh,s escape from slavery, will ju^f, the voter in vo- 
!,S r;i' U ::.°: ^ right to eecape we 

ime a right to assist him in his flight. The «ta tram- 
ples upon Wo man's real right in appropriating ids pow- 
ers to his own use, nor do we -meddle with the riahts 
oFthe South" when we vote -for the freedom of the 
slave. The slaveholder has' no right to the slavi. To say- 
that he has is to. "put darkness for light"- and expose 
ourselves to the "woe" of God. His claim is an unqual- 
ified assumption. The application of the law of love to 
voting the slave out of the legal meshes into which he 
has fallen and in which he suffer? more than if he had 
"fallen among thieves", is as much more forcible than 
its application to "pulling an animal out of a pit", as a 
man's happiness and wdl-being art- more important than 
those of a brute. 

I 

tim't ki irt .tJlBiL-*.*. * i k Glarkson 



Distu'ct of Columbia, oi in 
narce to tlic project. 

Did not Henry Clay dVvalj he could for the ex'on- 
sion of slavery in the western territories of the Unnod 
I States? 

j 3, '-Whether be (James K. Polk.) wan not. in 1=41 & 
1843, detested, vfka a eaudidate for Governor of 
[ 1 ennessee?"' 

j Quere? How many times has Henry Clay been defea- 
ted? 

4, • Whether he, (James K. P(dk.) was not in 1840 
presented as a nuisance, by a grand jury of his own 

Quere? Is not Henry Clay now under $5,0'. 0 bonds 
to keep the peace. 

They are neither of them fit to preside over a nation 
of Freemen. 

They who live in Glass Houses should'nt throw stones 
Let all who believe that the "laborer is worthy of his 
hire;" are willing to sustain the Declaration of Inde 
pendente, and go for Right and Truth, and Liberty, 
good morals, the peace and welfare of the nation, its 
present and future prosperity, abandon both Polk and 
Clay, and go for 

JAMES G. BIRNEY, stf" 
who believes in "payiu fair wages tor .'an- days work." 

We shall in our next give a brief .history .of of the 
Liberty candidate for the Presidency and show that he 
is the ouly man nominated. who u worthy the t^port 
of free poeple. 



There are always to be found in every commu- 
nity a set of self-styled philanthropists, who,' instead of 
laboring for the advancement of humanity, are always 
satisfied with standing at a distance and finding fault with 
others. If the subject of slavery is brought up for dis- 
cussion, they will give a somewhat doubtful manifesta- 
tion ol disapprobaton for it in the "abstract", but will 
finally come to the conclusion that sla very in the aggre- 
gate is no very bad thing after all; or at least that it is 
not necessary to labor for its removal. If the commuui- 
ly seems to require them to act, they will admit slavery 
to be a great evil perhaps and then endeavor to make 
out abolition a much greater evil, and are sure to take 
shelter under the faults of abolitionists, thus endeavor- 
ing to satisfy their consciences in standiug aloof 

If a vicious loafer goes to a Washington Temperance 
meeting and makes a little confusion, or if a few wick- 



Lgpr rcOTrl SIDES BE HEARD. 



ed boys get around the door and make a loud disturb- 
ance'; their souls are filled with holy horror at. Washing- 
toman meetings, and think it is better even to go against 
temperance, than countenance such meetings Instead of 
going to the meetings, giving iheir influence on the side 
ot good order, and helping on the cause of truth- thev 
stand-aside, find fault, though ignorant of what Jg done 
there, aud m this way sanction.the course of the disturb- 
ers ot these meetings and give them the whole weight 
of their influence. We are satisfied that in many cases 
the disturbers ot these meetings, recieve their °rea^s( 
encouragement from this species of cavilers. 



selves to its authoritv? 
rs of government "are 
; loral evil? Is he the au- 

so corrnpted itself th; 



Some of the whig em'tors have propounded^ number ! ' ^ hese ) fauU - findCTK have been very busy for a%w 
"questions for iho S<w.. A „ J... J ' ' 1 ^ eeks enueavoring to bring into ridicule, the Juvenile 



of "questions for the SoOos to answer.'' 

We s-fec.t a few from aqiong diem for consideration. 

1, ' Whether Ja 1T1L . s K, Polk i s tl at the owner of a 
great number of slaves whom he hires out thro' tb- 
State Ol 1 ennessee, thus rocket ing all the earning of 
poor mt . tl , except what suffices for their bare and raise- 
rabie mamtaiuauce?" 

Quere? Flow many skives does Henrv.Clay own, all 

A, L : " 0t mOTe C ° r - oi « h - .« beings HE is pocketing?' * U it any wise 
'h I hristians were com- ,«• , !- • , . 6 y J1- e 

to wnk men without wages in T.-nncssoe, than in Ken- 
tucky? "Has he paid bis washer- Woman 

2, "Whether he, (James. K. Polk,) did not vole a- 
gmnst n resolution for the. effectual abolltio-P-.f the Af- 
rican Slave Trader ■ ■ ", /' J 

QijereV Did not Henry Clay oppose a co:,,ention in 
h-*own State, the object of which was to i oomote e- 
mancipation? and was it not through his influence that 
this conventiorngKas defeated, 

D,<i W Hffiry Clay say in his speech irr I s?0, "he 
wot Id caTRinuc to Oppose any scheme of cmancij.-alion 
gra ual or imrnepiate?" and what .but slavery supports 



as diseases and earlh- 
lave notliing more toab 



r? .Such persons mnst 



would suffer 



the African Slave Trade} 

Did not Henry Clay, say in*1841*T 
the tortures of ihe iaqmsition, 'before ( w> u ;d- si gn a 
bill having for its object the abolition of slavery in the 



Temperance effort, as carried oil in this county by the 
Rev. C. J. Warren. They stand at a distance, whi- 
mng over itas^ effort," as if thev were certain 
that these "babies" were never to be the men and wo- 
men of the land. We. have no sympathy with these 
spirits, we care not whether they 'are Rev. D D's or 
any thing you choose to call them; however hio-h sound- 
ing their titles, or whatever their standing is in societv 
lf their influence is not in all cases directly, it U indirect, 
ly, brought to bear against the advancement of truth- 
and the world is the worse for them. 

This "croaking:" we are informed was very much put 
to rest, .at the Juvenile Convention on the Joat Madison 
m this County. There were about ei-ht hundred chil- 
dren present, a County Juvenile Band was organized the 
children were in high Temperance Glee, and the Lea' 
they manifested, kindled up the temperance fire anew 
m the hearts ot the adults present. This will alwavsb/ 
the case. When child en get on fire in any good cause, 
it the hearts of men and women do not get on fire alsok. 
it will be because ifry hnce no hearts. Success, we say 
to the Juvenile Band . In this time of apparent tempe- 
rance declension, we haj] the Juvenile Banner, as one 
under which every true friend of temperanc, can andwiU 
enlist in some form, and give the temperance cause v 
new and powerful impulse. 

" Mr. Warren got 5,300 children enlisted, who havt 
procured 500 new adult pledges in this County. 
"See thq Juvenile Band is coming. 



POETRY. 

AWAKE THE SONG. 

A LIBERTY GLEE 

Tune—Drir.k to me only. 
Awake the song! 'tie Fredom' ■ hour; 

To Libert} we s'lirj — ^ 
Destruction dire to slavery's power; 

Let the full chorus ring. 

Land of the river and the rock," 

No bondman pines in thee; 
Jfo despot doth thy people mock 

Wiih his vile tyranny. 

Strong as the gnarled oak, thv sons 

Will bend to none hut God! 
Within their veins stili purly runs 

The daring pilgrim's blood. 

To a«»ger slow, tbey have borne 'mng 
Their southern brethren's -corn ;- 

They're rising now— the s'ave's great wrong 
Deep in their bosoms burn. 

He must be free! — the sound has sped 

From Maiue to Texas' bound — 
And w hat New England's sons have said, 

Will ever truth be found. 
Awake the soug! — 'tis Freedom's hour; — 

To Liberty we sing — 
Destruct on dire toslavcry'-s power," 

Let the full chorus riofi. 

Bavgor Gazette. 

FOR THE FREEMAN. 

Come answer freeman, to the call, 

Come forth each Jersey B'.ue ; 
Rekindle freedoms' beacon light, 

Her altar fires ienew. 

Come rally qtiicUy one and all. 

Our Country's honor to retrieve: 
And s-rike for liberty and right, 

And scorn to be or make a slave 

Redeem New Jersey's name from scorn, 

America's bold truth declare, 
Be free in fad as wt.ll as no me, 

The foul reproach no longer wear, 

Let Pat; iot unto Patriot shout. 

Aud echo bear the s<>und away; 
O'er mountain, rill, o'er plain and vale, 

From Bergen to Cape May. 

L. 

Lil'Mon, Jaly 1844. • 

If the following lines need any apology, we state 
#h"y were handed t, ,;s by a tenant of the Poor house, 
who writes from experience and is able IB his own life, 
<o contrast the healthful influence of ris<*«e's beverage, 
Uvith the poisonous eiiets of ihtoxicatisg brinks. 
Cold water O how sweet. 

Cold water, cold water, co'd water, we sing, 

How delightful its rich joys abound; 
Com* down to the Spring colu water we sing, 
Let the grov*-s wiih echoes resound. 

€cme Sire a ,d Son, cheer up with a song, 

The Mother and Daughter rejoice; 
With pleasure and spruise, in happiness raise, 
Lfa.- .,. And tune up your hearts end ;,oui voice. 

For ■virtue ai d praise, are temperance ways, 
■. J With glory and 'love in the he^rt; 

With bliss ? nJ content, the pure mind is bent, 
And from it 0 never, no never, deport. 

Then ttjve and keep it, the.pledg so divinee, 
A light and n lamp tliat ever wil! sh*n.:; 

So cb&et up and sing, the co'd wat r .-.priug, 
To nourish and cherish, thee at;d a l tmue. 



CELEBRATION AT BOONTON. 
The Wushiugtonians had an excellent cde' ranono;. 
theFo«*A*t Boouton-WMi the exception of ne 
firii.* of crackers and other low vulgarity of the 
satellites of he dramshops at a little disUM* we have 
not witnessed any, meeiing in some t-me that gave 
sueh cheering evidence of the glorious i iflufc* >« the 
Temperanfe Reformation upon nil classes 01 people— 
The Juvenile Band recently orgahiz d oy Mr. War- 
ren .assembeled in the Free Church in the morning, 
formed a procession and with Banned dying, marched 
to a orove—Prayerwaic offered by the Rev. Win. LFar 
9 ons, B and after singing and speaking hf fee 1 members of 
the Band and a short address by Air. W tee, the meeting- 
adjourned for dinner. 

At S oclock-P. M. the citizens; Men, Wov.en and 
Children assembled in great jumbors in the grove; 
after prayer by Rev. Wm L. Pa-sons, a,d singing by 
the Cheir, thecongregali-m Ken d *ith gr«at interest 
for two hours to an addrese from Mr.ThW Weed of 
Brooklyn— Mr. Weed truly did honor to himself, and 
contributed much to advance the onus, of Tern^rance. 

Ia the evening the Concert was weh a tended in the 
Free Church, the Music was conducted by Messers 
Elliott, Stone, and Martin, and other members ot the 
Free Church Ct.oir males and females, and s»cn was 
the general satisfaction given that fhey nee.! not fear 
to try it again. They certainly gave the best concert 
we ever had in Boomon. 



TOBACCO AND DEATH. 
It is estimated that of 2u0 deaths in G- rmany, b 
tween the ages of 18 and 35, ten are caused .meetly or 
'indirect by the u* oftobiQCo. in toe United States, 
from the oest calculations, the value of this weed an. 
Ely consumed is, S 16,0o0.0 .0 ; $9.(i0 ,000 of 
which is expended for Span is i oi 3 ars. People have no 
r io-bt to cry out hard times, when they waste s»erv ; ea 
som| sixteen millions of dollars in spitting and ftmo- 
kiug themselves a way^ 



I with weeds, ttv oime neatly trimmed vine was haug- 
' nig i.i its wild iuxur.ance, uutrimmed and uneared for, 
; i.nd the windows gave, the sa l evidence of the drunkards 

1 home, its broKen panes. 

Who, but a drunkards family can estimat - the blight- 
ing, withering, h*.rt c. u ihir.g influence of him who has 
d- based the mtellect which God has given hi m, M in- 
red all the finer emotions of the heart, abused the power 
given him to protecr «l i0S c weaUerand fraler than him. 
self, and repaying affectionate endearments with curses 
and reproaches. 

This unhappy family knew it well-the wife once 
cheerful and happy, »as now the victim ^unrelenting 
d.sease-Her increasing efforts to ma.nta.n her f,.m.!y 
in respectability and comfort had mm nuned a consti- 
tution uaturallv delicate, and she well knew that dre 
many days should pass, her eyes woulu be sealed m 
that sleep which knows no waken "ng-Il was with a 
ad heart that she looked upon he. chflMivu, poor des- 
olate beings thev would be, w,en their only prelector 
was cone. But HE, whom she had frosted Id her day 
of happiness and prosperity; forgot her not in her dark 
hour of advers;ty, but enabled her to yield them up to 
him who is ihe father of the fatherless". 

Days passed on. The kindness of friends prov.ded 
those little delicacies, which are so acceptable to the 
invalid, particular) when administe-ed by the Ba*d ol 
kindness and sympathy; andhcrw.rn spirit .passed a- 
way in the arms of strangers. When her remain, 
were carried; to their last resti .g plan-, he, who at t,c 
alter ha.i^owed to love and cherish lw, waging. in 
astate of utter inebriation. But a brighter day was 
downing for him. Temperance was spreading bergen- 



h War honorable and glori^- What is <he eh.ef 
business of war? It is to destroy h. man life; to mang^ 
the limbs; to gash and hew the body; to plunge the 
sword into .he heart of a Mlowceature; to strew the 
earth with bleeding frames, and to trample them under 
foet with horses' hoofs. l» is to batter down and burn 
cities ; to turn fruitful fields into deserts ; to level the 
cottage W the p'easW and the ma|6i5ceat abede of 
opulence ; to scourge nation With famine, to muhiply 
Sdwsand orrhans \re thetfe booorable deeds ? Were 
we called to name exploits worthy oi demons, ^ a «o 
not naturally seledt such as these ? We h.ve tho ,gh. 
that h was honorable to heal, to , a v. to mitigate t .am, 
to snatch the sick and sinkir.g fro,, thwawa of death. 
We hav placed among *l,e benefactors of the human race, 
thediscoverers ofai.s Which ajfc. iate euinan suffering, 
which prolong, com&rt, adorn, and cheeiiiumaii hfe : 
andiftheseartsbehm, urab!e, ,-,reis the glory ol 

multiplying and aggravating torW es and dea'h- 



ial indlence over the length and breadth et the land; 
wise aud good men were -.uK vmdicatmg its truths; 
they told the poor degraded dru.karJ that he was not 
a worthless weed, idly to be cast away; but that he was 
capable of being helovd and respected bv his lehow 
men. He listened aV.u believed, signed the pledge, and 
became a man. 

Tins is no fiction, it is truth-the subject is now a 
living evidence of ine power and influence of ihis «reat 
reform -lion, and blesses the day that freed him Irom 
his bondage, anrt saved h:m troui a drunkard s grave. 



NOTICE. 



The SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING of the New Je r 
SPV Auti Slaverv S-cjety will be held at MADISON 
i„ Morris County oa Thursday 22d, of August next at 
10 ocloek, A. M- Meeftifis in ihe afternoon and eve- 
ning. Madison is conveniently situated on the Morris 
& Essex Rail Road, and from the known h ,sprtaHty of 
the Friends of liberty there, we f, ; el justified m promi- 
sing all wh > attend he meeting irom a distance, ent< r- 
tainment without erst. 

Let the friends of liberty every where take the best 
midmost effectual measures to get this notice befo.e 
,; K people— I^t us tiave a full meet>»g. 

By ordor of the Exccn ive Comitfee. 

James L. Or*. nes, Secretary. 



. Slavery is the infringement of all laws A «»w hnv- 
.ing a t*n«,r.-y t preserve slavery, ; wooh b. tht .gros 
sest siicarllege— Jul** • 



THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE. 
For the Freeman. 
How trifling is the sum of human Jap.pjn?« H 
varied and diversifi.' our condition. Some enjoy hea- 
ven's brightest gifts, blest with health, s^roum.eo b> 
dear and chosen fneuds; o:her- linger out a weary , x.s- 
l nee, unheard b, the vmce ot kindness, dnnkieg iht 
Lit er draaeht of poverty, racked with pain, or a prey 
t : ,hatt!ftsi,k malady which bafnesthe Phys, .an I 

Sk I l wa« forcibly impressed with this fact last -ummer. 

1 L vi iting boo.0 friends in one of the lovely 

of Ne, Jersey, tuey s.eu,d K enjoy h V «J 
n'.hecomfoitsofadeligh.ful home, an^he c,.,uh 
vinpathy of true hearted uffecticn Sickness, poveny 

aB d caro alike Strangers, ar.4 life — one -ong summer, 

dil Buta.3hort distant from this happy f'fy was 
ulow cement, giving evidence by Us ^P«jg 
and lorlorn a r earenee, th.t o^laltou and r.eglect had 
Lln ^ess o, Th,oncetasuful;ard was overrun 



The folowing ndividuals will help on the 
cause of liberty by acting as agents for this 

Jacob L. Bro herton. 
John Lee, West Bloomheld, 
C. Peloubet Bloomfield, 
Richard Kelal, Orange, 
Wm. F Oarcner, Newark, 
Wright 1'Kivdl, Paterson, 
James Howe, Jersey City, 
Joseph J. tfLtsgerald, West Milford, 
Stephen (Jiines, Stanhopet 
Ephraixn Gui. d, Succ#unna, 
Peter Elite, CrosswioKS, 
Baxtr Sayre, Madison. 
Aw dher fri»nd of liberty, vill confer 
a favor and aid >n the c»i.se of Freedom, 
by helping in tht circulation ot this [ ^per. 



i 





PREEM4I 



VOL. I, 



T H 



FREEMAN 



WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES. 
Soonlon, Morris County, Neva .Jertey. 

TERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for lli numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary saejifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 

WHO IS JAMES G. BiRNEY? 

This question is so often asked, that we now proceed 
to give a brief sketch of his life, believing thai u is im- 
portant tnat the inhabitants of ihis.. nation should know 
the man in order that they may appreciate, his worth 
in reference to his qualifications lor the efface of Presi- 
dent of these United States. 

We are sick, and believe the honestly disposed portion 
of the community are sick, of the political strife oi cor- 
rupt pames in favor of elevating slaveholders and thi I) 
apologists to the highest offices in the gift ot the nation; 
particularly when we get before our eyes the whipping 
and driving, the bribery, deception snd falsehood, the 
hard cider and rum drinking and treating, and in short, 
the every-sort-of-meihod used by the coons and polka, 
. to get voles and elevate to the highest posts ot honor & 
power, men that Americans sfccotrld blush to own, as the 
honoured representatives of a nation of freemen; we re- 
joice in having it in our power to assist in introducing 10 
the notice of Jerseymen, a man every way worthy of 
the votes of a free people for the Presidential Chair. 

JAMES G. B1RISEY is a, native of Kentucky, and 
was born Feb. 4, 1792, being 51 y< ars ol age. Hie 
Eather v as a wealthy planter and holder of a large 
number of slaves. The Son was euueated at Princeton, 
6iudied law in Philadelphia, and then returned to. his 
native State and engaged in the practice oi law; was 
once a member of the Kentucky l egislature. 

In Ma he removed to Huntsville Alabama, resumed 
the practice of his profession, held for several years the 
office of Solicitor general, was elected by the Legisla- 
ture one of the Trustees of the fc iaie University, w as a 
member of .the Legislature and candidaie for presiden- 
tial elector. 

In 1826 he made a profesmem of religion, and his 
mind was soon after directed to the subject of slavery. 

He embraced the colonization scheme in the hope that, 
that society was adequate to the work ol eventually a- 
bolishing slavery, & such was, his zt al in the. cause, he 
gave up the business of his profession, and engaged a< 
an agent and traveled as 6uch for some lime, was cho- 
sen one of the vice-presidents oi the Kentucky Coloni- 
zation society,. having returned to thai State. 

Experience soon taught him the fallacy of the scheme 
of colonization. as a remedy for slavery, and in order to 
show his future character and course, we copy as fol- 
lows from the Emancipates We will only add, that 
Mr. Birney s.chaiacter, intellect .filly and mo, ally, is 
recognized as of the first order by slaveholders thVm- 
. selves, while-he is acknow ledged on all sides as a gen- 
tle man and a christian. 

We now come to the commencement of his new career, 
which has made bin in the sight of ihis nation and of 
the world, .the foremost practical laborei in the cause 
of immediate emancipation. Early in the summer of 
1834. his mind became tvJij settled on the great* truths 
of the sinfulness of sjavery, and the duty, of immediate 
emancipation. He forthwith emancipated all his. own 
slaves., and on the Ifkh ol July adthesscd a long lever 
to the Rev. Thornton J. Mills, .secretary of the Ken- 



BOOIVTOJY, AUGUST, 1844. 

tucky Colonization society, jjesigr>in£ h;s onVe-ki that 
society, and giving the reasons of his new position.^ 

Th's letter had a very wide circulation, ar.d produce,! 
a powerfuljmpressior.. The HuntsvilSe (Ala.) Advocate. 
August 14, said of it: " Mr. Birney was lor a longtime 
a citizen of our town> and his talents, his Attainments as 
• scholar, his happy ^ud fluent pen, his pure and unex- 
cvptionaLle morals, djad won a high degree of respect and 
esteenu-trom all classes of society." Mr. Garrison, in the 
Liberator, spoke of it as " ojic of the most important doc- 
uments that the artislavery cause has yet produced in 
ibis country; it contains nothing superfluous, nothing 
tame; as a composition it is chaste, vigorous, and ele 
qUCRt; ijs logic is dear, compact, invincible." From the 
eloquent conclusion we copy a sentence admirably ex- 
pressing the two great clauses of considerations by which 
he was .moved : 

"When, I recarto my own observation, through a life 
of more than forty years, of the anti-republican tenden- 
cies of slavery, and take up our most solemn sial« paper, 
and there see that 'all men are created equal, and have 
a right that is inalienable, to life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness, 1 feel a settled conviction of mind that 
slavery , as it exists among us, is opposed to the very 
essence of our governmei t and thai by prolonging it we 
are living down me foundation principle of our happy 
institutions. When I take up the boek of God's love, 
and there read, 'Whatsoever ye would that men should 
do unto you, do ye even so to them,' my conviction is not 
less thorough that slavery, now is sinful in his sight." 

The Rev. Dr Cox. of JN'ew York, said of the transac- 
tion: "A Limey has shaken the conli^it by putting 
dow n his foot; and Hjs fame will be envied before his 
arguments are answ ered i>r their force forgotten!" The 
Rev. Thomas Lrainerd, how of Philadelphia, then of 
[Cincinnati, said, "Mr. Biney is a man of superior tal- 
ents and education, and enjoys, to an unuajal extent, 
die confidence and affections of his fellow-crrizcnjf; his 
piety we have never heard questioned." 

In April follow ing, a Kentucky Anti-Slavery Society 
w as formed, and measures were taken to* establish a 
paper in Kentucky, called the Philtanhropist, w ith Mr. 
Birney as editor. 1 he paper w as defeated by the tim- 
idity and treachery of his printer, who sold the mater- 
ials to the slavhoiders, and refused to fulfil his comarct 
Mr. B. therriipon resolved to remove to Cincinnati, 
but belore he had sealed his family "here he w as waited 
on by an official gentleman, v ho assured him that his 
paper"v. ould produce an explosion of mobocratic ele- 
ments, more violent than ever was known before," and 



NO. 3. 

Robeht Buchanan, William Greer., D. T Disey, N- 
Longwonh, and other men of standing, a majority of 
them members of different churches. The c'aiiy press 
(except Hammond's Gazette) was filled with inrkmma- 
tory articles. For weeks Mr. Bu»ey'a life had been 
considered in danger, yet he never left his post, unless 
to encoun'er new dangers in lecturing about the State. 
The publishers firmly but temperately told the commit- < 
tee from the market house that the paper eould not stop. 
In the evening a large body of the people assembled 
and demolish- d the types and press, tore down some 
houses occupied by unofh ndmg persons of color, visited 
the houses, of Mr. Birney and several abolitionists, and 
tr<=n proceediddownMain street, where they w ere com- 
plimented by the mayor for their. good intentions ••' to 
pun*h the guilty and leave the innocent," and then ad- 
vised to go home as they "had done enough for prw 
night.!' On the 96th of September the paper re-appear- 
ed, its editorials breaihing the same calm and una wed 
determination as ever. In his first editorial .article or, 
resuming, he says : " Shall it be said that LiFE^parid 
Fortune, and Honor, should net-be hazarded — tnat i|>c 
Constitution, and Law, and Liberty, may fceiesW-<! 
to their lost thron»s, and sway their mild scoptse^jfithon'. 
a rival ! ho — this must be done by those who vvo'js'd 
rather themselves die freemen than slaves; or our com;- 
try - , glorious as has been her hope, is gone forever." 

This conscientious, prayerful, . calm, self-sacrifitinr 
and undaunted spirit, buoyed up with the justice of hi< 
cause and the w arm hopes of yet brmg instrumoni d ir. 
the salvation of his country, carried him through.all fht 
persecutions which servile and slavcholding mslico could 
devise, and gradually won his way to theeonfidoiiee,-!;;' 
respect of the w ise and good; so that he entered upon 
the second year *>f the publication of his paper in com- 
parative peace. Before the close of 1S37, be re,moVe3 
his family to New York, where he entered upon the of 
fice of Secretary of the American Anti-Slavery Sociev. 

His labors in this office, during three years that he 
occupied the station, are extensively known. Cumin- & 
he did, from the midst of slavery, himself a reformed 
slaveholder, a philanthropic observer of things, his cau- 
tious statements, manifest sincerity, candid method of ar 
guing. and persuasive earnestness of manner, give a pr - 
culiar charm and power to his public addresses,, nml di, ; 
much to give .stability and dignity to the anti--'aven 
enterprise. 

The exigences of the cause during those years ( alle< 



thai "rt^pectable and influenzal gentleman would ! for the consideration of many great questions of mun.;c 



encourage it by their silence and acquiescence." Anxious 
to avoid the imputation of a willingness to trifle with 
the public peace, Mr. Birney concluded to. haye the 
paper issued at New Richmond, about twenty miles 
from Cincinnati, but he himself remained in the city. 
The first paper was issued on the firsi of January, 1836. 
On the ggd, the mob spirit came to. a head, and a great 
meeting .was summoned to take into consideration what 
should be, done with the Philanthropist, but Mr. Birney 
Calmly m- t the storm, attended the- meeting, and amid 
threats to take his life, addressed, them w iih such pow er 
of persuasion and such cogency of argument, that no 
violence was a-itn.pttd. The Mayor cf the city presi- 
de! al this meeting, assisted by.Jucge Burnet and c< her 
distinguished citizens. In April,, he removed his press 
to the city. In July, v hen the place was filled with 
the usual summer influx of slaveholder, the printing 
office w as burglariously broken open in the night, and 
the pussand type damaged. On the 23d, a great meeting 
v as called in the n arket house, headed by Judge Et,k. , 
the pes. n aster and a m : nisttr of the gospel, vine i; 
w as resolved to insist on the immediate discdnfinvaaice 
of the Phijfaothropist. The committee to take charge 
of. the business was commposed of JACOB BURNET, 



ipal, constitutional and international law, in their -bear 
ings upon slavery; and in the discussion of the^s point; 
Mr. Birney showed i imsolf truly great as a jurist and . 
statesman. His correspondence w ith Col. Elmore, o't 
South Carolina, solicited by the latter, his essay on Ex 
tradition, on the Ordinance of '87, on the Gue.rantv ol 
Slavery, &c, published in the New York America: 
and the Cincinnati Cazette, generally over the signature 
of B , } ave developed the principles on w hich die gov- 
ernment of this country ought to be administered, for 
the sepport of Liberty and thp protection of the right) 
of indiv'dua^s— principles which must prevail unless v 
are prepared for a general substitution offeree for law 
ard to abandon the weak to the oppressions of the pow 
erftfl. 

His father having died without a w ill, he and a broth 
er-in-!aw were the only persons legally in+erested inth< 
estate. At his request, in division of the estate, tr< 
slaves, tv.pn'y-onc >n number, were set of to him- ail 
ss scon ss the necpssaTy documents covM be exii'cuti <: 
he set 1) all free. He was thus enahhd to execute > 
purpose forp <d \cv« } fieri- of fr»-f : pjr oil his fbther' 
si? vp'. at his ow n expense. The deed of emancipation : . 
as follows: 



» 



m 



''Know all men by these presents, 

TJiat I, James 67. Birneyl late of Kentucky, but now 
flavin;/ my residence in the city of JVtic York, believing 
thai siavehoiding is inconsistent vviih natural justice, 
with the precep-.s ana spirit of ".he Christian religion, 
and with the declaration of American independence, and 
wishing to testify in favor of them all, do hereby' eman- 
cipate, and forever sei free, the following named slaves, 
which have come into my possession, as one of the 
heirs of my father the late James Bik.vei', of Jefferiw 
county, Kentucky they h'-i-ig al! '!- s a- -s 1. •• by said 
James Birney, deceased, at the lime of his death.*H| 

Then follow their names and descriptions, and^re 
deed concludes: "In testimony of the above 1 have here- 
unto set my name and affixed my seal, this third day of 
September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and thirty nine. Jamf.s G. Birney." (Seal) 
And this, Christian reader, is the man for whom, as 
candidate for the presidency of the United Stales, the 
slave solicits your support. Shall he have it? 

In 1840, Mr. Birney attended the first " World's Con- 
vention" in London, and was one of the vice-presidents 
of that august body. He spent some months in England, 
travelling, and attending public meetings. He also visi- 
ted the green island, and the place of his father's nativ- 
ity, but found, we believe, only one member remaining 
of his father's family — an aged aunt, who was garru'ou* 
in recounting the good qualities and boyish adventures 
of "Jamie," before he went to America. At Dublin he 
was introduced by Mr. O'Connell upon the platform of 
the Corn Exchange, an his distinguished friend from 
America, and a man worthy of the high-st honors his 
country could bestow. Since his return, he has retired 
upon the shattered remnant of fortune which emancipa 
tion, and suretyship and seven years' devotion to the la- 
bors of philanthropy have left, consisting of a tract of 
new- land on the Saginaw river, in Michigan, where he 
has hardened his hands by literal toil, such as his dis- 
tinguished slaveholding competitors would think only 
belonged to slaves, either wbite or black. 

Mr. Birney abandoned the pursuit of political distinc- 
tion when he. yielded^ to whayie believed to be the dic- 
tates of religion, in withdrawing from all other labors to 
devote his life to the deliverance of his country from 
the curse of slavery. But when, h\ 1839, sound philos- 
ophy and bitter experience had tog^th^r taught the wis- 
est of the abolitionists the folly of hop:ng for any great 
good from parties, always and necessarily subject to the 
dictation of slaveholders, their minds were at once turn 
ed upon Birney, as the proper representative of their 
principles and objects, and worthy to be the first man 
elevated to the presidency, for the glorious purpose of 
overthrowing the political power of slavery. 



THE JVEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

ROOtf TO 'SiJL AUGUST 15, W44.' 



List us tlno w oli ui i.ajit — a eobw eb one a. o^i, 
and the world will see through it. It w ill not do thus to 
talk like philosophers, and act like vnrelenting tyrants; 
to be perpetually sermonizing with liberty for our text, 
and actual oppression for our cotnuy ntary. 

Wm. Pincknry, of Maryland. 



In all things that have bt uuy, there is nothing to' man 
more comely ihan LIB E R.T if Milton. 



LIBERTY ELEGTOLtAL TICKET FOB. 
NSW JERSEY, 
Darius W -Ik James Howe. Tho -as V Johnson, Alex- 
in ler H. F eematj, S ep.ien .ri.ne.i, Alex<«oder Black 
Sam iel Hall. 



THE STATE SOCIETY. - 

We cal 1 the attention of the friends of liberty to the 
notice ih another column of the Semi Annual State 
Meeting at Madison in Morris County. 

Since the publication of our iast number, we have 
had information from the friends there, and find we 
were Sbt mistaken as to their willingness to enterta ; n 

friends from a distance without cost; they would like WiT «,nfnlT "T"™*" m ™* Cause > are exc ^- 
• c i_ jti , , , y u " KC ln .f LV sintul tor how can /he cond t on of the slave he 
to have fivp hnnr vr-rl nt,w^ nfi m M ™l,»l 1.. . .. "i iue siave oe 



For the Freeman. 
Mr. Editor, I was much greived at glancing over your 
paper, to find that you have had difficult* ;„ procuring 
a convenient' house, in which to hold your Semi-Annu- 
al Meeting, and the question arose in my mind, why 
should this be? Why should this deep feeling of hostili- 
ty against the abolition cause, be so deely implanted in 
the minds of our couutrymen; many of them having 
large and liberal views on other subjects, and I came to 
this conclusion, that it is because they will not hear, 
read, or have this subject discusssd. 

What at the present day calls for sympathy and ac- 
tion, so much as the emancipation of the slave? The fact 
that so many human beings are crushed to the earth 
compelled to wear the the bitter yoke of bondage, is e- 
nough to awaken the deepest emotions of sorrow in ev- 
ery heart, and calls upon all to act. 

But there are some that have such a morbid dread of 
discussion on this point, they say "slavery is not so bad 
after all, and the slaves will get free in God's own time; 
there is no use in believing the stories of these aboli- 
tionists; they are a dangerous set of men;" and so they 
resolutely close the doors of their churches and school 
houses, determined to hear nothing of the matter; just 
as if public prejudice would be softened, or public o- 
pinion enlightened, without an effort, when an eflbrt is 
required of a mighty character; and I truly believe, that 
cowardice, and slothfulness in this cause, are exceed- 



td to labor for the slave 

Our friends W»ld, Dorrance, Parsons, 
Wi»e, &. others, are expected at the meeting. 



Russel, 



We have thus far sent tee Fre- man 10 al' known ab 
olitioniets in the State, => h I, a* i.:any.. h rs who we 
ta u bt woul i read it. We *hail aiter this send them to 
subscribers only. 
!n our fir-t number w- hvit»d th* friends of libe^v 



lO'contriba!' 



artich'S 1'or th- 



P-'per, as \v« have but lit 



^ An extract of a lei. er from a i.a ive of Richmond. 
"I aft) pained exceedindv, and i o thing but my du»v 
to God. to the oipres-ors. and to he poor dou n-trodd.-n 
slaves, who no mourning a 1 t'.eir davs, could move 
Time to say a word. I will sta'e to you a few cases cf 
the abuse of the slaves, but time ivou ; d fail, if I had the 
language u> tell how many an! great are the inflictions 
of slavery, even in its mildest form. 

Benjamin Jirne.s Han-is, a w althy tobacconist o 
Richmond, Virginia, whip «ed -i slave to death While 
he was whipping her. bis wife heated a smothihg iron, 
put it on her bod\ in various places, and burned tier se- 
verely. The ver lici of the coroner's inquest w. s 'Died 
of excessive whiping.'' He w is tried in .Richftiund, 
and acquitted. I intended the trial. Some years affei, 
this same Harris whipped another lave to dea h. The 
man had not done so much wo: k as «as required of 
him. Aft r a b mi er of protr. ct ri ;ind vi'ol. nt scours 
ings, wiib sliort intervals between, the si iva 'lied mid. i 
the lash. Harr -s was tried, and again acquitted, because 
rum but blacks saw it do-.e. The same man after- 
wards whipped another s av«- sev< el , for n rl di t. o 
work to please h.m. After repeated and sev 're fl .g • 
gi.ig*; in quick succession, for the s.:mo ( uuse, the slave 
in despair of pleasing hi:n, c ,t . ffhi.- ow n Land. 

Harris soon after beeaoie a ba krupt. wer>t to Ivevv 
O I -ar»ta recruit his iinances, failed, removed to Ken* 
fee ime a r".»..-iar a»id died " 



le lei-ure to d -vote t.i t ,is b ■» ne.,s, bat as vet, w,. 
ave hiid but lilt e bel ; < of this k id; we hope to heat 
rom -iime of ou- fri nds >>efore lonj-. 

We co .si ler the pajier of import, nee sma'l as it is 
as a rn< di:;m o r corn . unicat:o'i :i<iiong th>- friends o; 
ib rty \n the S ate, bur our desi e a d n en ions ar- 
to ;u<ute i: «ts instrxt ug aul interesting as po^sbile. 

We have 'ml fh» hilsfort'ine to jjpt very poor paper 
f "r the Freeman — We shall take cai e of tins for the 
futuic. 



THR ANTr SLAVERY ENTERPRKE. 

The v.vs from .11 a rts of the U S is highly 
cbecing to the 'riends of the s ave. Whd<> the people 
ar- fist getting thejf eyas o »e > to 'he anti republican 
-yat:ire an I teiideticfts ot slav. rv — its nior <! obliquit es 
in all its bearings — th • i»jus ice and cruelties w ich 
ire n-cess uily iuc ip.r ated wit i iff and itiseperable 
;V-.m i ! ; they are as f st turuing their HttentionUb the 
Ba! ot Box is the leg i o 't remedy lor all these "vils. 

We fLid Virginia are dv com n in o 'he fid.l. while 
•her 'lave S^.te. a, e in diffi ulties which thev can 
n ve»- -id t iems Ive- of, un-il th y abolish slavery, 

Tn'e friei.d* n New Ha ip-hire promise 1 '.'.000 votes 
this fall, and t'i<' pr. spec is of the Li erty Part, every 
> here is truly e co o t'iug. a d infuse n w hfr and 
z^il into tl.p he;i tsof al true lovers of liberty who in 
l no Vnm e »es asto th ■ acts. 

T e signs of the times are f II of encouragement. 

The question now for the North finally to decide is, 
Shall the slave States dt aw us down wHi them, and 
Loth perish, or shall we, by a dec idjd conjunct exert'on 
of virtuous energy, .save ourselves and them from des- 
truction. Jawen G. jBirney. 



and consciences open to conviction. 

A change cannot be effected, until this subject is free- 
ly arfd openly discussed; and it will be, for it is a» noble 
cause, and the cry of the oppressed has entered into the 
ears of the Lord God of Sabbaoth, and he will not al- 
« ays endure that the work of His hand should suher 
violence. p 

Our correspondent is right in attributing the opposi- 
tion alluded to, to a determination not to Aear. The 
enemies of truth have always feared and opposed dis- 
cussion, unless it comes in the shape of clubs, stones, 
brickbats, tar and feathers, fire, the bowie knife or the 
pistol, or torture in some shape; modes adopted by the 
rabble to carry into effect mischief concocted behind the 
screen by those from whom we have a right to expect 
better things. Free discussion, is abolition in a nfit 
shell; a pro-slavery Boston paper not long since oppo- 
sed discussion for this reason, that "Free dtsc.Lori 
would had directly to emacipation;" and the South Car- 
olina Telescope, which if we mistake not is a religious 
paper, contains the fo'.'owing. 

" The question of slavery, is not, &shaU not be open 
toojscussion. The very moment any individual itlempte 
to lecture us upon itsevi's, and immora ity,and the ne- 
cessity of putting means in operation to secure us from 
them, in that same moment his tongue shall be cut out 
and cast upon the dunghill." 

The spirit of opposition to discussion, is the spirit of 
slavery itself, and demands the candid attention of eve- 
ry true friend of human liberty. 



TESTIMONY OF I), SWAIN, ESQ., OF NORTH CAROLINA. 

Let any man of spirit and feeling, for a moment 
;ast his tlionahts over this land of slavery — thi k of t c 
ia**rf«e«»ofsonv.' t e hungry yearninos of thers, the 
fluwhig tears andheamnu sighs of parti eg re I t ons. t e 
waitings and icbmi bleody 'ciU of the keen lash, and the 
t lilfuljcream that rends the very skies, — an 1 a I t .is 
-gratify ambition, lust pride, avarice, vani'y, a-id 
other de u-av -d t'ceimgs of the hu nan - cart. 
1 H K WORST H NOT GENERALLY KNOW\. 
Were nil the miseries, the horrors ofsjavery, tobur-t at 
once into view, a p al of seven-fold 'hotel, r could sca- 
rce strike greaier alarm." Thousand Witnesses. 



Tf.stimonv of Rev. N. II. Handing, a slaveholder of 
N. C. . "I am greatly surprised that you should have 
been the apologist of a system so full of deadly poison to 

THE NEW^ORK STATE LIBERTY COJ^f" 11 ho5ine8sand benevolence as <l»v*gr, the ' concocted 



VENTiON, is to be held at Uik a Sept. l!)th. 

The friends of liberty in this State expect to poll 3f>, 
000 voles this fell, Success to them. 



essence of fraud, selfishness, and cold hearted tyrany,and 
the fruitful parent of unnumbered evils, both to the op- 
pressor and the oppressed, the one thousandth i-aivt 
Ot WHICH mas nj-\ ei: prKN iikooqiit to light." 



For the New Jersey Freeman. 
Mr. Editor, The mass of your readers admit the 
duty of voting, and for them it needs no discussion. 
They intend to exercise the right, not however, I trust, 
without regard to principle. The law of God 

is not indifferent as to the way in which the duty 
of suffrage is performed. One form of its precept 
is, "whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever 
ye do, do all to the glory of God." God is glorified in 
the most speedy advancement of righteousness among 
men. Doing the most good we can, glorifies him; and 
to promote righteousness to the utmost of our ability, 
is exactly equivalent to doing the greatest possible good. 

Abolitionists are not all agreed for whom the law of 
God thus expressed, will require them to vote. The 
majority of avowed anti slavery men, who will vote at 
all, feel that they must support the Liberty Candidates, 
Others think they can do more good on the whole, by 
voting for Clay or Polk. If such are equally divided, 
of coarse, they accomplish nothing. 

But let us examine the ground upon which some 
abolitionists intend to vote with the two political par- 
ties. 

THE CHARACTERS OF THE MEN. 

It cannot be said that there is any thing in the char- 
acter of Mr. Ciay which entitles him. to their votes. He 
is a slaveholder and according to our views of this sm 
it reaches the climax of guilt, it includes injustice, stea • 
ling. robb( ry and contempt of the divine government. 
He is adueiisi; and according to Mr. Frelinghuysen, 
"duelling is murder," a- most "heaven daring sin." He 
says, "the blood of the murdered, the tears of the berea- 
ved, and the commands of a righteous God, call upon 
them to speak, and bear testimony againat tiiis HEAV- 
EN DARING SIN." It is needless to dwell upon his 
personal character. If a "clean thing cannot come out 
of an unclean," if a "fig tree cannot bear olive berries," 
if "a salt fountain cannot yield fresh waters," if a man 
"tannoi. serve God and mammon," if "he that oflendelh 
in one po^nt is guilty of all;" surely we cannot iook for 
any thing which God will call good from the heart of 
a s'aveholding duelist. It is useless to say that Mr. 
Clay knows slavery is wrong and wishes it abolished, 
he has the greater s;n if he "knows his duty and does it 
aot." ' . • $ 

Is Mr. Polk's personal character entirely deserving? 
He too is a slaveholder; and all the crimes which ag- 
gregate in this horrid system attach to him. His course 
in congress, and his zeai for the annexation of Texas as 
a slave district, clearly show that he cares neither for 
the freedom of the w hites or the blacks. 

It may never have been to his purpose to challenge an 
antagonist into the field of death, and fight him accor- 
ding to "the laws of honor among gentlemen";, but he 
has fought desperately against those rights of men which 
are dearer than their blood, and for which, rivers of 
blood have been patriotically shed. The man who has 
- trampled upon the petitions of freemen ought to blush 
when he solicits their votes. The slave-lord is not the 
man to serve a free poeple. 

But it may be said by those abolitionists who still ad - 
here to their old parties, "we vote for these men, not 
because we fellowship their personal characters, but be - 
cause they are able representatives of certain great 
principles upon which the welfare of the country de- 
p«n«V In answer to this, it should be remembered that 
the bible says, "Moreover, thou shalt provide out of ail 
the people able men, such as fear God; men of truth, ha- 
ting covetousn- ;;s; and place such over the people to be 
rulers." How can those who love God and his word 
disregard this plain injunction? When they do, is it 
strange vlijat they find even anti -slavery politics "very 
destructive to piety?" How is it brethren, do you find 

whig or loco i'oco politics very healthful to piety? 
"GREAT PRINCIPLES !" 
But bow qreot are these principles, which it is so im- 



portant to have represented that even a bad man may 
be elected to do it? With the whigs, the tariff is cvi- 



sing revenue «nd protecting certain pecuniary interests 
If the whigs prevail with their tariff, the people M'ili m 
necessarily be wiser or better. Many may be made ri<\ 
by it; and their riches may prove their ruin. "Hov 
hardly shah they that have riches enter into the king- 
dom of God." l'he comforts of life do not depend upon 
whig tariff. It will not make the earth more fruitful. 

Grant that it would give the country a money pi 
perity; what is this compared with the prosper^ ot ed- 
ucation, virtue, liberty, human rights? Moreover, thr. 
iariffmay stand, though Mr. Clay is defeated. 
A Democratic Congress has refused to repeal it, and 
many of that party are advocating the tarili as really a^ 
the whigs. The tariff is the great question only to those 
whose god is mammon 

What the "grea^ principles" of the Democrats are,we 
are not able to say. ALL the questions, however 
which seem to be really at issue between these two po- 
litical parties are evidently pecuniary questions. 

The only truly great question before the American 
people is that of HUMAiN RIGHTS, which forms the 
basis of the Liberty Party. Slavery is as deep a wrong 
as was ever inflicted upon man: it is as great a wrong 
as man can do to man: its curse is for' tune and taite» 
hold on eternity. The Liberty party is employing a 
inong other things, the ballot box to destroy this moii 
ster evil. They ask the co-operation of freemeu because 
ihey feel that the slave question is comparatively the 
only one which deserves attention. What are money 
'.arifis and banks compared with human rights? 
r'robably not a man would lay down his lite for the ta- 
riri,but thousands have done it for human rights. Shall 
we gratify the lust for money and care not for die thirst- 
ings of two and a half millions for freedom? Shall we 
serve mammon before God, who has commanded us to 
"undo heavy burdens?" Shall we say to the slave, wear 
your chains, die in dsspair of liberty, while we are le- 
gislating to make ourselves rich in money, and not in 
good works? 

ANNEXATION. 
But all ■abolitionists confess the slave question is the 
great one, & some would go for Ciay to prevent the an- 
nexation of Texas. It is doubtless des irable to prevent 
this, but how shall it be done? The more sober and in- 
telligent part of the democrats are no more in favor of 
annexation than Henry Clay. While this is the case, 
there is no probability that we shall have a Congress 
that will consummate the scheme. A strong abolition 
vote has dor.^, and will do, more to arreist the foul bu- 
siness of adding Texas to the United Sta.tes than any 
thing else. Ail, of ail parties, who love their country 
more than slavery are decidedly against the extension 
of slavery. Su«h is the public sentiment that it will be 
found very difficult, if not impossible, to extend the in- 
stitution in any pirection. Kill slavery, and the Texas 
question will talte care'of itself. The peculiar institu- 
tion has received! already such a stab that it will find it 
difficult even now to flee to Texas. 

THE LEAST OF TWO EVILS. 
Clay abolitionists say further, "one of the candidates 
must, be elected arid w r e ought to go for the better one 
so as to secure the greater good, or prevent the greater 
eVil: it is of no use to vote for Birney now." 

How do they knpw Clay's election will be the great- 
er good? This position assumes thatwt is of no essen- 
; >'a! importance to defend and practice correct principles 
until a majority will do so with us. If reformers had 
always acted upon this principle, where would the 
world now have been? What is reform but defending 
and practising correct principles when the majority are 
trampling 'hem under foot? Reform can never progress 
on the principles of thfAse men. 

They say, "Birney's principles are, right, transc.end- 
ently important and ougiht to prevail," and then go on 
and vote opposite principles into power. What does '.he 
veriest whig in the natioji more? Every man of sens" 
knows what principles ought to be seated in the presi- 
dency, but the difficulty is to persuade men to let their 



against your convictions and better judgment; and if yoii 
Jo it, what better can be expected of those who have 
'ever avowed themselves abolitionists? If the children 
>f Israel will not hear the truth, how will it get audi- 
flfflce before Pharaoh? 

The true way to reform the world, is to stand b\ 
tight principle always, but especially when it is in the 
minority:, and then the truth, by her own inherent pow- 
•r acting through your example, will soon gain the ma- 
ority. The opposite course cripples the truth and de- 
Jays her victory. "Let the dead bury their dead," but 
et men of principle be men of principle when truth is 
n danger of defeat. Clarkson. 

A change, VVh'G Tr cks — Ii is hut a few years 
inc? the pr i -slavery parties were unwflling 'o toie- ite 
an aMi ion'si as much as to admit one m their ranks. 
n..w, «hei thy get n ne wil'ing to go to the Pol s aud 
vo e for a S ave hold r. they cr„vv over it Instil. 

T ie Whig E lifers in this State are eudeavArijp to 
make ran it;t I by representing a'mlftioni-t • as coming 
»v r ;' ?o th ir viaws j., <r r . a i numbers. This .g a great 
mi -(•ke, some seif-suled abo ition.&.'s who never heve 
b en li lerty ea ty men no d..u:>f v.ih go lor Clay, but 
We beh. ve .he Liberty- I arty nev«r was ga.ning nu.n. 
hers faster than at tie present time. They are gaining 
converts from among Whigs and Dem cr-.rs at au un- 
precedented nt<e. Let ihe friends of liherty remain 
firm, aiid victory wi'i b, su e. 

Punishment for Fighting a Duel — ,W« s o it stated 
in a late Eny isn p per, toa; in a r cent i lei oe ween a 
p.o essor of a mil taiy schou o the Net erlauds and 
ieuten nt, the former was killed. The urvkpr has 
e a tr eci lefore a cour m rtial, and s utenc id t > five 
years imprisonment. T se t*o secc« uds *er«tcoad mued 
10 three years of the same punishme it! A few ex im 
pie- of this kind, would seou ba.ish tie absurd and a- 
omim.bie practice ol duelling 



He hat never chanced aav of hs opinio"?, n^ve) 
corrected any of h s 'ni-tekes. and he who was neve 
wis e ougii to fi id any ui st k s. 1:1 hi self, will not 
be haiitable enough to excuse waat uq reciton.s mis- 
takes m others. 



Selling Rum on the Sabbath in Is. Y. is contrary to 
law, ana a whole bevy of Porter House keepers wen- 
brought to the police office yesterday by the Mayors'- 



officers and fined. 



Those men who destroy a healthful constitution c. 
bodv by intemperance and irregular iiK (to as manifest'-- 
tili themselves as those who hang, poison, or dror.': 
tiieinseives. 



THE CRY OF A DRUNKARD. 
A Low- 11 Pa . r tejle us of a drunkard who appliV 
to th.- magistrates tor an asylum .11 the house of c r 
ree'ion, that he might Keep out of the way of the rum 
?e ie !K ! ! ! 

We see pot how anv person can read the statanen! 
witbou burning with ihdigBaaon towards thecommuni 
t'v aid -ne government of a (•Qtnmumty, that will suffer 
\n es .ibiits-ane.it .» their m<«st wh eh" will compel 
mill- t" t "ou ai.eseif w(jj)tn pris .n walls lest by sec! 
etahl hment he e ut erly ruined, jjp, s v £q n ! e, te.or 
al suasiou will st< 1 ■ men from selling! W- II «fc do - 
it tool do i ? Th re has -een metal suasion 36.1 whir.;, 
-hould loeg ai'.. have slopped everv rimiseHei in tlx 
1 lid Bet has -I done it? N «. W.th some m -n i : 
Will effect it and with so ne it ne»«t will. W th fcv. 

di it ■• h ie they have a !icen-e. Wi 1 n ne sea reel > 
who sell h gainst ti.e iaw of the laud and in de'ianr 
oi the voii c ol conscience and he voice. .fan ••ftende 
co iimu t . We beh ve great hin. sh ve be^n don 
b) m«eai s -a i ■■■., >n th- truffic never can he entire! 
ex.iiig.ii»..ed but y the aid of the laws of he land. 

Journal A. T. Union. 



derr ly th" great. qupg-.- : on. To call this a "great priuci- potty selfish interests dropj. and go for the promotion of 
pie" is a perfect solecism. It is but a mere mode, of rai- 1 riyht. If you vote againstiabolittoa principles, you vote 



"I donf know how it is." soliloquized . dVunk nloe, 
et, •' t t -e -ms to me there is the thanderingest bo; 
nine up .f things t%nightt'nat 1 ev- r re,, s e: PVPil 

e.-t : a ho-.se is dancing j as, a d the tn mi ut I ieiV 
go the post, up jumps the sjde walk a- d hits fa*, a d (. 
n the forehead. 1 1 wont d — f w.mt to gr home '■<■ '- 
k v, but I am afraid to stii — its as much as my life 

Visitor. 



worth." 




POETRY. 



The following from cheEmaucipa or, was sung at th 
Baem Celebration. 

A"ine tha eh >rds of free io n*s tyre, *| 1 

To bounding note-: of glee; 
An l swel! upon «ich burning wire, 

Tie anthems of the fr^e! 
Strike, strike a^ iin the notes of old, 

T ia 1 : s »eep t these hi'ls along! 
ilW.re fre 'd m's sons he? - fl'g unrolled, 

A id shou ed freedom's song! 

W.lc'! 'vake, tV ton»s ofvirjtorv now, 

For fre 'do n'< heart beats hi^h! 
AH triii ooh «its on manhood's brow. 

Aid speaks from wom>ri*s eye. 
The sua that rise in cloal and "»loom, 

Njy b°aTn in radiance bright; 
And io one idi*n so'en lor, soon 

Shall fa'az' with freedom s light. 

Whon slavery's n : eV sh.il' pss-t away, 

Ail v» d' ov?r I-i nd a>d sea 
A T aia on e\'erv bre-ze shall play, 
Tnf? banner of the fr-^e! 
l Th "0 tuae the lvre — l*t ra is'c sweep 
I Ou: h ■ i Is and vales alo g! 

Wh le o :e in's waves in srl ulness leap , 
And d mee to freedom's s n^! 



that a bishnp m»v n<r be a slaveholder, — ?.nd ypt that 
he may, provid d he i< billing to live on a fat s !»r\ 
have 'vs si i ves to u ait u >on him, and do nntliing — 
and have a's" the! rdeit'O'ia! Ii'ioor < fhavii» his na ne 
2fo o t in the Hvrnn Book Minute*, and Diseipline as 
>ne of the B ; sh'-ps! Tbi- uns >eakal:l" ydvancement 
ia le in t -ie cause of e r anci' ati >n in t ie cise of B shop 
AnJrevv is, that if a Metn. ; dis' Bishop be.uties a slave 
isol !tr. lie t-h II l'v 'with ,*t wcr*. as ether slaveholders. 
■ hiie otrici' B «■ opshave tow ik for th^ir living !!• Whni 
a !.s ontehing advance towards financing tion is this ! ! 
And t'ie repeal of the colored testimmy resolut on 
>nly ni eces the church ' aek whercshe wae f ur years 
:l _>o — a p r '-sl tver}' church, with a witness ! Where, r h ei 
is th s mighty abo ition refor n ? An«*»er. It :s entirely 
wit oat foundation ! 

Hid t' e General Conference not confi med the 
di>ius:s ofth • Bahiuore Conference in the case of Har- 
•1-ng, »be would ha- e been more pro-slaverj than ever. 
Had s ie not S'emed to disappro- e of slavery in the 
Episcopacy, she would have taken pr '-si: very ground 
.vhich shi; h e never \et occupied. Had she not re- 
j peal-d the colored testimony reso u;ion. she would no! 
have been as free from pro slavery as she *»e four 
years ago. What than has t e M E. Church doiu- 
that looks towards emancioa'ion ? Echo answers, 
whaff 



Taa tiev. C. T. Tarrev. aho is uo»v c-mfiued in the 
B Itira ire J til. ,rj a charge of ai ling in the escape of 
a few S iv >s, rar.tes a very interesting li tter which is 
pa >tis.ie 1 in 'bp £ nmcipator. We hav» o*»ly ro >m 
for thee mclus on, b t our fr en Is shall h 'ar more about 

this matter vet. H^ thus concludes 

' When the mob imprisoned oie, f >r no crime, at An- 
nanoli-, in 1*4 [ mvit'd m nv of t >e prominent ci i- 
z >ns of i his S ate to m -et me there, round that old j-iil 
in Janaa y, 1352, to emm •< uorate heaboli ion o : sla- 
ve v in Mar lan 1 I now extend 'he invitation .<•> you; 
wkh on!v oie correct on. If you, and ali who labor 
forth -lave ••re iai'hful, ( is I do not donbt you will 
be ) T mast name an earlier day, and a lucre' p ace. 

P.!ihtps th> area ro and Wasihx^tom's Monument, i» 
th"c ty of Bilti no-e, w ll b< a bette' prlai v. It is his 
mnvtwiin: who deciar^d il nos; w th h $ dyins breath, 
thit 'so far as his s .3* '>re cou'o' go" <6 abolish ela- 
v -ry. "it sho il I n >ver b waiting." Meet me around 
W shiagnn's mo-'u:neiit. on th" 4tl> of July, '84-». to 
br'ite the peacprull triumph o c 'i'-iert ■ in Mar viand! 
And miy (rod b ess and keep us all to see that hap? 
•y day. 

Your frienl and prisoner for the slave, 

Charles T. Torre y . 



T i e following is among the Toasts given at n ltrte 
m 'et'iig at Sal"m. M^ss. 

Bimey and Morris — T ie men who pu'l ur) the "young 
hickories'* to drive tho '-co ens" out of '-Uncle Sam's' 1 
cornfield. 



VlRGFJilA 

A Liberty Pirtv is organize ! in full earn-st in Virginia, 
and a full Ticket made oat ffr Ehctors of Presidunt 
and Viee P es'den . 



B »ndage is winter, darkness, death, despair; 
Freedom^ the sun. rh-> s a, the mountain air. 



From he 1'iue Wesleyan. 

T HE GREAT AdVANCEME.VT.OF THE 51. E. ChUSCH 

in the Cause of Abolition! — l a «• at- does it consist' 
Not in t< e confirmation t>f t!ie ditings of the Ba'timor 
C inference in the case 01 H irding; f>r-hadthe Ueuer; 
C nf rea -c reverse I th/t decision, it w uld have sal 
that a minister mav h lu slaves whote the I ws ndm t 
of e nanei..a ion. Tins > oalu < ha ve bean to proitVess 
ba le v fds. T i'' m^st tnerelore tb-.t can he said or! 
tin.1 pain is, that the M E. Church s anda ua her <•! 



g 



Th? flit.o.i in B:sh ).i A » lr j v's cise o ily pr . 



SLAVERY. 
A Hard Case. 
A gentleman in whom we place implicit coufid«nce. 
nas iu f ormed us of the following affair, who was a 
witnfss of the facts: In O toher !ast : the bark Hazard, 
Ci pt. Clark, sa led from Providence for New Orleans, 
having on b ard a free colored man a native of Prov- 
idence, as Co- k. A'ter a dangeroes pa sage, havinp 
arrived at the destined port, the vess 1 wns considered 
unseaworthy, and of course the crw ah n loned her. 
Amo ig th it nnbert'i seek for other employment was 
tt»i« hones I colored man. There is a law in Ne 
Orleans, that no cdor -d person sh 11 bi t'ound in th. 
street ;ifter 8 o'cloik in the avenieg. This poor man 
from t''e tree, pu e a r of New England, knew nothin' 
of this law, and was.io search of business past the 
hour.— He was taKen up by t ie watchraen r and put Info 
pr son. where he was confined six wee!. s; then ta\eti 
nit and let out to work to nay his dungeon fees, whicd 
were ninetv di)ll irs. While thus at w >rk a passenger 
svho w»-n' out in the bark with him, accidentally me* 
him. H was chained aro e>d the ancle a' d knee, un- 
der the la h of the taskmaster — eorjaciated and sick 
He *>egg''d of him t-i iti e him a. /picayune, to buy 
some bread with; for. said he, '? am almost- starved.' 
Oir inform wii sta'es that he , ' ler ' endeavored ■ to get 
hi n from th cl 't hes of the field-fl river, but be>n : un- 
snccssfiil. he It ft him , in ag my bordering upon despair 
The rolore'i m hi h id .'earne-i his fite and was cas' 
■town deietitcd ; and thus suffering by th • (fleets of th 
cliinate andfthe lash, was apparently anproaehlng th' 
ennfines of another, more weJcomelv to be received 
t wuntry than that ruled bv the tyrannic arm ol the 
< \eholdi-r. When he has labored lot g enough to 
pay his jail charges, he is. If luring, to lie pat tin at 
a iction and -old. to the high'jst bidder — sold into p;;r- 
etua! bivd ige ! This is another of ihe null, on oi*f ict> 
'has should l ake th;' bosorfi of every Abo ition isj b irn 
ifitfe zealous indignation— should arouse the dorm m 
fe:;Lngs of fvorv lov r of fi'eedom. Wifthope and be- 
lieve the end of rn;in stealing is at hand "It must be so 
Who ran'lif'p becoming, if he is not ahead\, an Abo- 
it ionist, in tiie fa"e of facts like lit. s' ? Where is the 
an» who will sa\ there isjusti e or humanity in this 
•aso? Look at it uudeif thi li h' of humanity, and 
sveigh t|i< crime and punishment in the bnlence of 
human rig-its. Tho q, gro is guilty of a trivial ofleuce- 

nd the punishment is perpetual bonda'.e. Should 

the Northerners hnv ; nothing to i-6 with S lutherti 
I i-vei y, w en o r norfjjern meii are sto'eo from us, a. id 
a aced nod r th to : im ints of the s'uvc iuquisitton ? We 
i iik t ev s on Id have much t do w th t. The N rth 
ho :'d 'em mo thi- man. If he his broken a law 
et turn by the lota re ceive his d se ts; but n -y< r let the 
V 'irtii give up . man to be h • property "fa Southern 
avt'holdfi-, u> til thu> * evehol it! shall producn a hill 
io sale frooi the Ai..v iiGin v. Yoiifi's Cabinet. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 
CONVENTION. 

A CONVENTION of the friends of Hu- 
man flights for the County of Warren, 
will be held in a grove on the farm of J. & 
S Adams, about half a mile from Allamu- 
chy, for the purpose of forming ounty An- 
ti-Slavery Society, commencing on Friday 
August. 30, at 10 oclock 'V. M., and contin- 
uing the two following days, ending with 
appropriate Lectures on the Sabbath. 

Prominent speakers have been invited, 
and no doubt will be in attendance. 

The Citizens of Warren and adjacent 
Counties, are invited to attend, men & wo- 
men, let them come out and hear for them- 
selves and prove themselves worthy the 
descendants of patriot Sires, wh > could not 
live as slaves: be faithful to freedom when 
her name is desecrated, steadfast for Truth. 
"For the scorned and broken laws. 

For honor and the right; 
For the staked and periled cause, 

( f Libertv and Light." 
July 30. 1P44. 



AMI >LAVEKY BOOKS. 
A variety of Anti Slavery books are on 
hand and for sale at the office of the New 
Jersey Freeman. 



NOTICE . 

The SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING of the New Jer- 
sey Anti Slavery Society will be held at MADiSON 
ia Morris County on Thmsday 22d, of Auir ist next at 
10 oclock, A. M. Meet in rs in the afternoon and »-ve- 
uinp. Madison is conveniently situated on the Mom is 
& Essex Rail Ro:id. and from the known hospitality of 
the Friends of livrtv there, we foe! justified in pro.ni- 
ing a'l wh attend the meeting Irom a tl stance, <enter- 
ainment » ithout cast. 

Let the friends of liberty every where tak» the b st 
ind most eff ctunl measures to get th s notice befote 
t tie people — Let us have a full meetin *. 

By oraer of the Ex cntive Comitte°. 

James B. Grimes, Secretary. 



The folowing individuals will help on the 
cause of liberty by acting as agents for this 
paper. 
JacabiL. Brotherton. 
John Lee, West Bloomfield, 
C. Peloubet Bloomfield, 
Richard Kelsal, Orange, 
W mi F Gardner, Newark. 
Wr^rht I'lavell, Pate/son, 
James Howe, Jersey City, 

Joseph J./ Fitzgerald, West Miflord, 
Stephen Grimes, Stanhope, 
I'.phrtntii Guard, Succasunna, 
Peter Fllis, Crosswicks, 
Baxtr Sayre, 'Madiaon. 

Any other friond of liberty, will confer 

a favor and aid on the cause of Freedom, 
by helping in the circulation ol this paper 



THE LIBERTY I'AKTV. 
This pnrtv n >w has n its service, tor e daily papersi 
a' out thir»y weekly, a, id several monthly an i tie u n 
her p-;.pid'y in-reasing. A number of new Daily Papers- 
ar i, uow in Uontempl alio i, th ; Bustoa Enauci^at <q i 
circulates 14.0 .U pape s weekly. 



fl 




X 



m 

1 j 



T 





VOL. I. 



BOONTOIV, SfcPTEMBfcK, 18-14. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, 
Boonton, Morris dmnty, New Jersey. 

T E R M S. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary rt.erifice, arid wc cannot afibrd 
to pay postage. 

THE STATE MEETING 

The Semi Annual Meeting of the New Jersey 
Anti— Slavery Society* was held in Mr. Keep's long 
room in Madison, according to previous notice, Aug. 
22nd, 1844. 



lion of peace is, that the minister" Christ, muse cease 
:o preach the v, hoi" .ruth, 'hii* obeying mm rather than 
God, Cease to rebuke sin under its widest and mo; ' hid- 
eous forms, in delerence 10 the narrow selfish prejudices 
of the human heart, oh the pica thai said sin is not in 
our State, and that it is authorized Ly law; then peace 
on such terms costs too much! 

C Resolved, that the aigtmeBt vrged ly fdi c. .] 
anti-slavery men, w ho do not vote for the Whig candi- 
date, do virtually vote for the contrary candidate 
and Texas too; is an absurd and ridiculous sophistry . 

7 llr solved, Thai a Slaveholder is no more qualified 
to preside in a Democratic Government, than a practical 
Atheist is to preach the Gospel. 

8 Resolved, That a Committee of three he appointed 
to take up Collection, and Secure pledges for means- to 
pay arrearages and continue the operations of the So- 
ciety in behalf of the Slave. 

The 8th. resolution v, as then taken up and unanimously 
adopted, and W. F. Gardner, C.Peloubet& D. Wells, 



The meeting was called to order by the President tfiwere appointed to carry it into effect. 



11 o'clock A. M., and prayer was offered by Mr. Coch- 
ran of New York. 

The Secretary then read the proceedings of the last 
meeting. It was then unanimously 

Resolved, That all friends present from other States, 
he invited to take part in the deliberations of the soci- 
ety. 

An Ode was sung by Messrs. Stone & Parsons. 

On Motion, John Grimes, Jacob L. Brotherton, Isaac 
Van Biarcom, Samuel I. Dorrance, Daniel Wise, Wm. 
L. Parsons, and Samuel D. Cochran, M ere appointed a 
business committee. 

Jacob L. Brotherton, made a verbal report of his la- 
bors as agent,which was unanimousl}" accepted, and the 
Society adjourned to 3 o'clock, P. M. 

At 3 o clock P. M. the meeting was called to order 
by the President, and Prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. 
Wise. 

On motion of Mr. Lee, the commitee appointed at 
the last meeting to prepare an address to the people of 
New Jersey was discharged, satisfactory reasons being 
given for the omission to discharge the duties of that 
committee. 

An Ode was theft sung by Mr. Stone. 

The Chairman of the business committee reported the 
following resolutions, which were accepted. 

1, Resolved, That the law of God is supreme; and 
therefore, all constitutions, compacts, and statutory e- 
uactments whatever, are valid and obligatory, just in 
so far forth, as they embody and apply its grand 
principle, and no farther; consequently, all contracts & 
laws, constituting ties between the North and the South, 
which in any way compromise this principle, are so far 
of no force or obligation whatever, and should be abol- 
ished. 

2, Resolved, That Slavery or the holding of human 
beings as property, is a sin under ail circumstances, and 
therefore ought to be immediately, and unconditionally 
abandoned. 

3, Resolved, That to deprive a man of the elective 
franchise on account of his color, is not only an act of 
injustice toward the individual, but an insult to his Ma- 
ker. 

4, Whereas the bill of rights contained in the consti- 
tution recently formed for this State teaches the doctrine 
of natural and universal liberty, and 

Whereas, the dictation of this new constitution is 
clearly at variance with all the existing laws of this State, 
which favor the maintainance andepntinuence of Slavery, 
therefore 

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to bring 
this matter before the proper Courts, that a decision 
may be obtained, which shall settle the question of the 
existence of slavery under the new Constitution; and 
that this committee he authorized to make an immedi- j 
ate anneal for funds to the friends of liberty, and to pro- 
ceed as early as the receipt of funds will warrant. 

5, Rssolved, That peace, kindly feeling, and harmo-| 
nious action, as between the members of a religious so- 
ciety, is a great and ever to be dsired good — but though 
a good, it is not the ultimate good. When the condi- 



The first resolution was then taken up, and after con- 
siderable discussion participated" inby Messrs. Cochran, 
Dorrance, Wise, Lee. Parsons, Rtissel, Flavt.ll. White. 
Peloubet and others, was adopted, a few dissenting on 
the ground that a resolntion embodying the same truths 
had been unanimously adopted at the last meeting, and 
was on record. m 

The second resolution was next taken up and unani- 
mously adopted. 

The meeting then adjourned til half past seven. 
At half past seven o'clock the meeting w as oiganized 
and prayer was ottered by Mr. Parsons. 

The committee to collect funds, reported $44,18 col. 
in cash including $11,75 by .Iambs Howe from Jersey 
City Monthly Concei t, and ,>2^7o in pledges, amoun- 
ting in all to $ 72.93. 

An Ode was then sung by Mr Stone. 
' JrL:~Brbfh! rtcr: offered (lie folic «.v itig' which wae u- 
nanimously adopted. 

Resolved, That we hail with pleasure, the publication 
of the New Jersey Freeman, as a valuable auxiliary in 
our noble enterpr'ze: and we give it our countenance & 
support, and cordially recommend it to public patron- 
age. 

The remaining resolutions were then taken up and af- 
ter free discussion participated in by many members, 
were unanimously adopted. 

Mr. Gardner then offered the following, 
Whereas, the word requires that when one suffers, 
all should suffer with him; and whereas, we have con 
tributed this day in aid of our colored friend; & whereas., 
Mr. Charles T. Torrey, late of Mass. is now in jail in 
Baltimore, charged with a violation of slave laws by 
aiding in the escape of slaves from their mastere; and 
whereas) his defence will cost from $500 to $1,000, 
therefore 

Rdscolvcd, That we how raise by contribution §5 
or more, in aid of brother Torrey's c.i.se, 
which was adopted, and a collection was then taken 
up amounting to $5,68, and Mr. Wallen of N. Y. was 
appointed to forward the same. 

A hearty vote of thanks was then given to Mr. Keep 
for the excellent accommodations and abundant refresh- 
ments afforded to all in attendance; prayer was offered 
by Mr. Howe, and the Society adjourned. 



ISO, 

w ore discussed, and thrifts and banks reared heavens hijri* % 
and at the njxt round, laknSaw, even to th-> dust, by 
the $Mle inmates of the sTagu. Finally the dreaded — 
the agitating — the h uih-telling subject, (abolittion, Lib- 
erty party, <kc.,)came up, and to soma charges made 
against this subject and its friends, Mr. Brown made 
some happy and horn.. cut replies. 

A warm pohieian of the company called him to an 
account for his temerity, no* in the least knowing him 
to be a colored man, and forthwith accused hifca of the 
old 1842 accusations, such as amalgamation. , ,iIo was 
asked, 'Sir, would you sutler one of your daughters 
to marry a colored man V 'Yes,' was the- ready res- 
ponse. 

'There,' says our catechiser, is amalgamation to the 
brim— just as ail abolitionists want and hold to.' 

Again he was asked, 'then I suppose you v. ould marry 
abiack? 'Moa use Handy 1 wouiu, and no other.' 1 here 
was no ground left for caviling. 'and it was so bold and 
fearless, and so utiexpected^hal the whole subject was 
dropped uy the catecliiser, as too horrible to proceed 
further: 

The dark veil of myterious night was removed — th^ 
curtain that divides the light from the darkness, was 
rolled up, and the sun poured las early and gentle rays, 
iiuo the stage. Our colored friend sat at one end of 
the coach by the side of his instructor in amalga- 
mation. Whilst our catechiser was still nodding and in 
sleep, a number of passengers had awakened, and saw 
the true color and situation of these two friends, and 
were sleeve-laughing and tittering at what they saw 
arid had heard. Our catechiser awoke and saw his 
man — and at the top of hu> yoiife cried out, 'Why, you 
are a nvjaci '.' Sec. put little or no reply "was 



From the Northern Star. 

The following capital story is from the Liberty Press, 
Utica, N. Y. It is an amusimg instance of the folly 
as well as wicke dness of the prejudice against the black 
man. 

COLORPHOBIA 
Mr. Brown, a colored man of some talents, although 
once a slave, was of late traveling east from Buffalo in 
the Stage. Mr. Brown took a seat in the evening, and 
it was not noticed that he was a colored man. During 
the evening's ride, and before late at night, the various 
topics of the day, such as Whig and Loco focn doctrinsj 



mode Ly our sensible, qutft -£ftd .g-iniuuittWily-- ro ! »:vd 
citizen, and they were soon at the stage house, and cal- 
led for breakfast. Soon the bell rang and the colore/1 
man, and the rest of the load turned to the ' table. The 
colored man, and all, but Mr. catechiser. sat down to it 
Mr. Southern Ch.iv.alry was awake, and by him the land- 
lord was called upon to remove the colored man from 
the table — he asserting thai he would not breakfast with 
a nigger. — The landlord cam:: forward and politely aski d 
him to take a side tabie, which should be well supplied. 
He very politely refused, and said he was well scan d 
and satisfied. The host oirered him his meal at free cost , 
if he would assent. — He mildly replied, that he would 
sit were he was and pay his fare. The landlord's chiv- 
alry was aroused at being thus baulked, and w ishing to 
serve his southern master, he approached him in the 
attitude of menace, to forcibly remove him. Our colored 
friend smilingly said : 'I will leav e it to the company 
present.? The host could not refuse, and a vote was 
taken, and lo ! all but Mr. catechiser, were in favor c ' 
his sitting as he was. His ire was up, and he was de- 
termined not to eat at the same table, L he took the side, 
table prepared for our colored friend. 

The leason is complete, and full of sound, moral in ■ 
struct! on. 



The V\ est. — At a Liberty meeting held in Jefferson 
county, la., recently, which was addressed by Hon. S. 
Lewis of Cincinnati, between sixty and seventy farmers 
renounced the old political parties sitd" pledged them- 
selves to Liberty. — Liberty Press. 

The N. Y. Evening Post publishes the following ex- 
tract of a letter from Western New York: — | 

"Already, in this county, men of character and influ - 
ence, who have always voted with us Hitherto, have de- 
clared their intention to abandon Mr Polk and vote for 
Mr. Birnev, or else refrain from voting at all; while a 
deep sense of dissatisfaction with the course of the Bal- 
timore Convention pi rvades the mine's of many.'" 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTUJN, A in . U ST lo, 1844. 



Lei us throw oii the masx. — as a cobweu on.- at l>&»», 
and the world will see through it. It will not do thus W 
talk like philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants: 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text, 
and actual oppression lor our commentary. 

Wm. Finckney, of M try land. 

In all things that have beauty, there is nothing to man 
::iore comelv than LIBERTY Mihon. 



LIBERTY TICKET. 
For President, 

JAMES G. BUiNEY, 

OF MICHIGAN. 
For Vice President, 

THOMAS MORRIS, 

OF OHIO. 

For Electors, 

DARIUS WELLS, 
JAMES HOWE. 
THOMAS V. JOHNSON, 
ALEXANDER H. F REM AN. 
STEPHEN GRIMES. 
ALEXANDER BLACK, 
SAMUEL HALL. 



THE STATE MEETING. 

The state meeting at Madison on the 22d ult, was 
well attended, the greatest harmony prevailed, aud if 
we can judge right, the interest for the Slave is on the 
increase in our state. The meeting was held in a largo 
room fitted up for public meetings by Mr. Keep, by 
WTiom refreshments were furnished gratuitously for both 
man and beast, and when the society tendered to Mr. 
Keep a vote of thanks, he arose with the heart of a true 
anli-slavery man, thanked the society for meeting there. 

When the Church was applied for, we are informed 
that it was objected to on the ground that a rich slave- 
holder in the place, would withhold his support from 
the Church if anti-slavery meetings were allowed there, 
and this was one of the reasons why the house was re- 
fused. Comment is needless. 

THE STATE CONVENTION. 
We call the attention of the Friends of Liberty 
throughout the State to the notice on the last page, of 
the convention to nominate a candidate for Governor, to 
ho held at Newark on the 25th. inst., let all come that 
,-an. It is of great importance that the friends of lib- 
el y should be fully organized for the work, Virginia has 
her liberty candidates in the field, and shall New Jer- 
eoins behind; we say NO! Let the FREEMEN of 
New Jersey come up to the work, and show they are 
in earnest, that theu mean what they profess. 

ALSO, 

Let the Voters in the Fourth and Fifth Congression- 
al Districts, read the notices on the last page ioi mee- 
tings in these Districts, & attend them as they should be. 

The County Conventions jn Morris and Essex should 
not be Just sight of; let the "friends in those Counties 
see to it that their respective Conventions are well at- 
tended particMlnrly let the voters of Essex be on the 
ipol as the Stale and Fifth District Conventions are to 
be held al the same time and place. Let the. notices on 
the last page of these meetings be well published. 

There can be a good number of liberty votes polled 
;•; Passaic, Hudson and other Counties, if the right eff- 
ort is made. Let Conventions be held in all the Coun- 
ties where half a dozen voters can get together, and a 
Ticket be formed previous to the State meeting on the 
2 5 at Newark, and the results handed in at that tune 
or publication, as we shall issue our next number nn- 
i i Uately after that meeting, and the Election will be 
hi Id for State and County officers before another ^o. 



T EX A S. 

It is really amusing to look on and see the use that is 
:,iade of the Texas question by the two greai pro-siave- 
ij parties, i»o Whigs and Democrats. Both parties ar 
using ail the exertion possible to make capital out of it, 
tnd both parties taking both sides as will best enable 
.hcin Lo ca:eh votes. 

The Wiiigs say at the North, that if Polk is elected, 
Texas will be admitted into the Union, and every eftoi I 
s made to mislead the friends of liberty by their u falst 
issues," and get votes for Clay. They are exceedingly 
alarmed at the stength they profess to think the slave 
system will receive from annexation; they are horror 
itruck at tne idea, that the cause of emancipation will 
be so retarded, and say, "if you withold your vote from 
^iay, you will go for Polk and Texas" a "false issue" 
without any mistake. 

Tne Democrats like the Whigs, advocate and oppose 
Texas, as it will enable them to guli people, and get 
votes for their party; they too, arc on both sides of the 
question, as best suits them. Both parties are makiug 
use of this-question to deceive liberty men and get their 
votes. 

We commenced this article for the purpose of keep- 
ing abolitionists on their guard, that they may not be 
deceived by the "false issues" of the pro slavery par- 
ties. 

We are among those who are opposed to the admiss- 
of Texas upon principle; we believe it would be wrong, 
aud for this reason we oppose it, not that it would 
strengthen slavery, for we do not believe it would 
strengthen that system; but rather hasten its downfall. 

We believe the only way to fortify "that sum of all 
villanies," and retard the progress of emancipation, is 
to vote for slaveholders and their apologists to fill our offi- 
ces and make our laws. Therefore, friends of liberty, 
he not deceived, the remarkable tenderness which these 
politicians manifest all at once, for the poor slave is not 
without design, and is as hypocritical as it is unbecom- 
ing. 

The whigs are rather taking the lead in this matter, 
and base their sayings on the Texas letter of Henry- 
Clay, which only means that Texas ought not to come 

i. on, by and by it may be proper; and the only really 
fxed difterence between Clay and Polk, on this subject 
is, that Polk's time is now, and Clay's is some future 
time, probably after election. 

In order to show the true feeling of the great body of 
Southern whigs, we copy the following from the Bal- 
timore American, a Journal in high standing among the 
whigs. 

"If those who really desire the annexation of Texas 
would consider the subject fairly, they would probably 
find that the chances in favor of a safe and secure annex- 
ation arc aieatcr with Mr. Clay in the Presidential chair 
them any other man." 

The southern whigs as a body are strongly in favor of 
annexation, and Mr. Clay is recommended to the peo- 
ple of the South, bec ause the chance for annexation is 
greater with him than any other man. 

The ana Texas electioneering of the whigs for Clay 
is all humbng — and should not be suffered to mislead 
the friends of Liberty. We trust it will not. 

The National Intelligencer, a leading whig paper, 
speaking of annexation, says, 

"We do not so much object to the thing itself, as we 
as we do to the man and the party by which it is to be 
accomplished." 

Mr. Prentice a leading whig, says, 

"I believe the question of annexation, as now presen- 
ted, to be a mere party question, brought forward ex- 
pressly to operate upon the presidential election." 



Grand Union Mass Meeting. There will be a great 
Union Mass Meeting of Whigs and Democrats in 1848, 
at the 'ieai of Salt River. 



rue l^v.r of naive 



or Liberty will tell for truth, retev 
iveJMtJ -Freed en; Le at his post 



The President of the state society has handed us the 
names of the following persons whom he has appointed 
as the committee required by the fourth resolution, 

adopted at the recent meeting, at Madison 



For the New Jersey Freeman. 
Warren County .M^ktino 
Mr. Editor. 

The Anti-Slavery Mas* Meet tig at Allamuchnv, 
Warren G«». has been attended v\ it< i mu, h interest and 
• ith good effect. 

P.irsuam to notice, a Co ini v Soc ety was for.ned, 
mxiliary to the N J. Antt-SHaverj Society. 

The requisite officer , were" appom cu; Doct. J D. 
Mil s of Wallnu. Valle.. . is P.-esid at. 

The meeting was continued three days, mornings & 
afternoons, in natures tabernacle, miter heave s ! tiro id 
canopy. When w e consider that it is but recently mat 
ihey co nm-.-nc.cd discussing t tic sn i,ect ol'iiu nan r ghis 
and held iheir hist anti-slavery meeting , we ire led to 
predict that ere lo , g the yeomen ry oi vVa reii County 
will be fully awake to truth a id justice, and win p. ovo 
herself faithful to Freedom. 

This is .he birth place of tne lamented Benj imin 
Lundy, a;d his benevole >t spirit w s ma litest in die 
ki id reception we met w,th. It might be contrasted 
'ith the moboc ratio spirit that is still visible to some ex- 
tent in some parts of N. J., 

lint to return to the. meeting: the fi st day. Fr day 
Aug. 30 th, the time wa^ mos.iy occupi •(! with business 
•ind iu answering a call lor the first principles oi Anti, 
slavery. In the evening the meeting *as held at the 
public house of Mr. Barto. who ki d . offer".] it for tne 
evening meetings. Mr B. Say re of Madison Morris 
Co. d^elt upon the unwarranted soitheni power exer- 
cised over northern interests. 

Saturday A, M. Rev. Wm- L. P.ir-ons of Boontr.n, 
answered the oft repeated question, viz. W iat iuve we 
at the North to do with Slaver.? In he P. M. Mr. P. 
lectured upon the dominent power of slavery over the 
government; also computed the cost oi slavery to ihe 
north. 

Sunday the meeting was large, and attended with in- 
creasing interest. The morniuo th, me. - as — Southern 
Slavery contracted with Bible Slave-y. (so called) and 
viewed in the light of the great distinctive principles of 
revea'ed truth. In the afternoon, the popular objections 
'o anti-slavery doctrines and measures were fully ans- 
wered. 

Several resolutions of im:>or'a ice were passed which 
will hereafter be reported for your prper. 

The exercises were interspersed with a; propri >te 
singing, which added much to ihe interest o; the meet- 
ing. F. S. 

A Caution to Ministers. — The following reso'u'ion 
was adopted bv the Quarter!' Conference of the M E. 
Church, Franklin circuit, (M ehigan) wi!!,out a dissen- 
ting vote: 

Resolved. That in the opinion of this Conference, 
the time has arrived when every Minister of the G'^-pel 
should take a firuinivl decided siaid against American 
Slavery, the sum ofrjll villa iy. and exert his utmost in- 
fluence iu favor ef the peaceful and universal emuneipa> 
tion of the oppressed; and that all those who do not 
take tlii- stand render thems elves unworthy of the. pat- 
ronage and support of the Christian community. I 

Signal of Liberty. 
Abolition. — The Sixth Baptist Church of Ciuejnnaff! 
have recommended a Convention of the B iptst C-iuici- 
es in the Western States, to bo held at Cincinnntti on 
the 2Sth, 29th und 30 h days of September, to prepa re 
lor operating succe-sful.ly as Baptists agamsi 'lie ini- 
quitous system if American la very. — Albany Patriot. 



Democracv Getting Right.— Mr. Lyman, one of 
ihe del 'gat. s rom 01i;o to the Democratic National 
Convention, bus to'u-ed to support Jam s ii Polu.and 
has giveen in his adhesion lo Birney and Morr s. There 
may lie many i'i the parly which he has left, v. ho aro 
almost persuaded to "go and do likewise." 



$^»John G. Curtis, Etq. a leading Van Buren politic- 
ian in Madison N Y., who has been six years clerk of 

vud is out 



John Lee, John Grimes, Wright Flavell, Alexander j the county, has joined the "Liberty Party," i 
Black, Charles F. Clark. I °i K ' lll >' and Tens. 



Our Criewichs friend is informed 1 1 1 ;\ t Bo nton 
our proper a I'. re s, w e have Post-offices near, throug- 
Ilrhicli all communications re.-.ch us. Will hi 1 pleas 
6«n'l ti- the names of the friends in A lenfoww? 

A iriend in Burlington writes that he is ^strong n 
the Whig cause, but he cann t support it w ih a slaver 
head, and shall vole lor J. G. Birney if bo noes it sin 
gle iiuti led.'" 

That's the true spirit, let all who proless to hate 
slavery act in this way, and us end is speedy & certain. 

NEW YORK 
The Aunuiil Meeting of the iNew York Stute Anti 
Slavery Society, is to be hela on t;ic l&th iytli ius> 
The Stat.- Liberty Convention wil: b held on the 20th. 
That will be a gn at Meeting, wa trust New jersey 
wiil :ie rejuesen ed there. 

The new Con>tttution is adoyted by defailt; 20,>?6 
voles m favor of it, 35^9 against ii. The number ot 
Votes ia INew Jersey polled at the Presidential election 
in 1840 amounted to 6-i,3s5. 

It is supposed that this constitution will put an end to 
human chtiUe'ship in the State, thougi it takes from the 
colored citizens the right oi suffrage. 

Theu co-no trie Liberty Party, embracing a lar^e 
portion ol tlie virtue, iuiel licence ai;d iegal know- 
ledge, the Christianity and patriotism of the North. 
Taki.ig t ie gr und first occupied by Washington him- 
self, fua- slavery was the creature of iheia » ana should 
b- abolished tiy law, they appeal to the ballet box, uot 
the bayom t ; l.ke the great Irish Reformer, having faith 
in the power o reason, truth and virtue, they expect to 
aehie v e a bloodless revolution, more glorious than any 
yet arising from force and arms. Tins party, a few years 
ajo, numbered but seven th< usand voters; now in 1*<43 
tbev poll s.x'y-fi^e thousand men at ballot-box; having 
doubled 'heniselve* every year from the time of their or. 
ganizathn. At such a continued r;;teof increase, I leave 
it to the reflecting to determine how long it will be, 
before they absorb the whole political power of the 
Northen men who are opposed to slavery in principle. 

Cassius 31. Clay. 

Froqress. — In a town in Indiana, w here ^otne Liberty 
addressee were latelv delivered, about seventy persons 
heretofore connected with other parties signed the Lib- 
erty party pledge, and have become active supporters 
of B'rney and Morris. In one town of North Carolina, 
the editor of th Philanthropist, a L iberty | aper in Cin- 
ciin^ti, has received »n addition of sixteen su iscribers, 
which is progress in the right quarter. Emancipator. 

"Ain't it wicked to rob this hen roost, Jim ?" 

"That's a great moral question, Gumbo ; we've no 
time to argue it — hand down another pullet." — Granite 
Freeman. 



"Jemmy, what is a member of Congress?". 

"A member of Congress is a common substantive, 
agreeing with self-interest, and is governed bv $S a day, 
understood. " — Granite Freeman. 

Benevolent. — To work a slave from the time he can 
to ; dle till he is fif- v years old, and then send him out aa 
a misioi.ary to Liberia. Liberty Press 



The Present Cabinet. 
President, John Tyler, Slaveholder. 
Secretary of State, John C. ■Calhoun, Slaveholder. 
Secretary of the Treasury, G. M. Bibb, Slaveholder. 
Secretary of War, William Wilkins, Servile. 
Secretary of the Navy, John Y. Mason, Slaveholder. 
P. M. General, Chas'. A. Wickliffe, Slaveholder. 
Attorney General, John Nelson, Slaveholder. 



A VOICE FROM THE SOUTH. 
Says a Baltimore writer, "We must look to the Lib- 
erty Party, and rally around its standard. I would rather 
toil in its behalf — live and die with it — sink with it forcv 
cr, if sink it mast, than swim and prosper with either oi 
the other parties. But it will not sink. There is no sue! 
wor'l »s fail in the catalogue of its princplcs and net?" 



THE CLAIMS OK THE WHIGS. 

The Whigs are, and have been urging their exclusive 
[aims to the votes of abolitionists, because they say, 
sat they are in reality, the only true-liberty party; not 
vithstanding it is nut a short time since they disowne,; 
:1 connection with us ami re garded us as too contempt - 
,)le to ue worthy ot notice. 

What they can louiid this exclusive claim to liberty 
rotes upon, we are at a iusi> co conceive — it is not be- 
cause they have treated tut aboiitionists any better than 
.he Democrats have, tor m fact they have not treateu 
• hem as well. Ihe abolitionists have had. moie kino 
treatment from ine Lemoerais in tins £>tate than they 
have from the Whigs. We nave repeatedly been shut 
out from homing ai.u slavery meetingo in places where 
whig miluence pi-epunuciai.es — wnue.*n pieces where 
democrats ha.t uad the power, *e nave been allowed 
to hold meetings, and have even been invited by them 
io hold such meetings. 

Some of die v> higs are sensible that this is true, but 
question the honesty oi ui«. dcinoqgata in use matter. 
Their motives may be honest, and they may not, we 
will not stop to enquire; the jnct in lac case is, the 
vsfhigs havt throwed more obstacles in our way, ana 
have calumniated anu perscmed us more than the dem- 
ocrats. 

We never, in ah our life, had such a torrent of scur- 
rilous, personal au.ise poured upon us as we had a few- 
days since by a prominent wing on ms return from a 
great whig mass meeting, and that too, without the 
least provocation, ami from a man wiio professes to be 
a christian and a gentleman, and who sometimes talks 
about his hatred to slavery. We have believed him to 
be a strict temperance man, or we wouid without hes- 
itation have pronouced him two thirds drunk. As it 
is, we must suppose him to be literally intoxicated with 
whiggery, and if men under its influence are made to 
forget the true dignity of men, and descend to the inde- 
cent &. base scurrility that issued from this man's mouth 
for a short time; God save us, we gay, from its contam- 
inations. His wicked abuse, (for we are under no ob- 
ligations to call it by any softei name,) was founded on 
our editorials in No. 2 of the Freeman. We have since, 
read them over carefully, and we find nothing in them 
that we feel in the least inclined to take back; on the 
contrary we feel bound to reiterate them, and until our 
views of things change, we shail continue to do so. 
We find nothing in those articles but what we believe 
must be endorsed by every enlightened man who recog- 
nises to the fullest extent, the obligations of God's law. 
We have said things, and expect to continue to say 
things that v, ill offend the time serving, those who love 
popularity, money, and their own ease, more than they 
do truth and justice. Such exhibitions of scurrility will 
ouly tend to make us more firm and faithful in the cause 
we advocate, & we advise the whigs to give him a stea- 
dy job at electioneering, we venture to say he will make 
at least one convert to the v, hig ranks to every ten that 
he drives out of them. 

We were not prepared to see him thus violate all 
rules of dcenecy & propriety, & ride rough shod over 
us in the manner he did. However, we are alive and 
alive like to be in spite of his influence, to do what we 
can to expose the sophistry and falsehood of the whigs 
and all other pro-slavery sects or parties in the world, 
even if they are upheld by the great " I, " above allu- 
ded to; we can assure him that however exalted he may- 
be, fn his own estimation, he appears supremely con- 
temptible to us, and we do not desire to have such a 
man on our list of associates. 

He ordered u.s to send no more of our "scurrilous" 
papers to him; we shall send him no more, but will just 
•jtate that since this tornado of u scurrility " issued from 
his mouth, we have added 81 to our subsription list. 
. If the Whigs expect to get liberty men into their ranks 
to do their work by abusing them, we trust they will find 
tbemseves exceedingly mistaken. 

Neither can the whigs claim our votes on account of 
.heir faithfulness to oft repeated promises. 

Every year sine" abolitionists have felt it their duty 
o carry their. principles to the ballot-box, the whigs 
fcfave been continually saying, '-votewith nslhison.ee," 



md then we will join you. Accordingly a great nuijj- 
ner of the abolitionists have voted with them; and the 
aong every year has been "this once," and was never 
sungwWi such manifest determinations to enforce it in 
■very possible way, as it is at this time. 

They cannot claim our votes on account of their ser- 
vices >u the ami-slavery cause, for they Lave done no- 
ting as a body but oppose" us in ail plates anu at all 
Mines when our cause ha., been unpopular. Witness 
heir public acts while in power, have ti.e-y notio n ve- 
ry great extent done ali they couid to cast odium on 
our cause and bring us under contempt, ridicule and 
persecution. They may boast In vain ot a Gideings 
and a Siade who use all the influence their anti-slavery 
reputations give them, to coax and drive abolitionists 
imo the service of slaveholders. And as for C. M, Clay, 
we have from the first suspected him of sinister designs, 
and his subsequent course has tended very much to 
confirm and establish these suspicions. We never have 
doubted his abhorrence of the slave system; but his com- 
ing out at the time, under the circumstances he did, and 
professing the ultra anti-slavery principles of the aboli- 
tionists, ant! then trampling them unuer foot and acting 
with such zeal and perseverance in direct oppositon to 
their dictates, shows to our mind a deep laid piot to 
entwine himself around the affections of the abolitioists, 
and then wheedle them out of their votes in favor of a 
slave-holding candidate for the presidency. The gross 
inconsistencies of this gentleman, gives his otherwise 
benevolent acts, a suspicious character. How utterly 
unworthy is the course of all the three indviduals na- 
med, w hen compared with die tearless, nobie, dignified 
and consistent course of Thomas Morris. 

When Mr. Adams grappled with ihe monster in the 
House of Representatives, how much sympathy, en- 
couragement and protection did he get from the great 
body of whigs.' Aside from the justice of his cause, his 
arm was held up almost exclusively by the. aboltionists 
The Whigs cannot claim our votes because their can- 
didate for the Presidency, the highest office in the gift 
of the people, is a friend of liberty, far be it from this. 

He is an actual slave holder, and his recently express- 
ed sentiments show that he is a slave-holder at heart, 
and utterly "opposed io any scheme of emancipation , 
gradual or immediate !." 

He has participated in five duels, and now, August. I, 
1844, refuses to say whether he will fnjhi any more or not. 

We give the following extract from his speech in the 
the Senate in 1S39, which no: only shows how he re- 
gards etpuai rights, but shows how much sympathy for 
the slave he believes there is in the whig parly. 

"I know there is a visionary degma which holds that 
negro slaves cannot be the subjects of property. I shall 
not dwell long upon this speculative abstraction. That 
is property which the law declares to be property. Tw o 
hundred years have sanctioned and sanctified negro 
slaves as property." 

"It is not true, and I rejoice that it is not true, that 
either of the two great parties in this country lias any 
design or aim at abolition. I should deeply lament if 
it were true." 

The following shows how much he favors abolition. 
"I w ould suffer the tortures of the inquisition before 
I would sign a bill having for its object the abolition of 
slavery in the District of Columbia, or in any mar.n it 
give countenance to such a project." — Clays remarks 
to TT7.se, in 1841. 

And with all this, to say nothing further, the whi gs 
call Mr. Clay "the great embodiment of whig princi- 
ples." We do not wonder that some of the whigs 
think it is wrong to enquire into the characters of those 
who solicit their votes. We ask with what propriety 
they can claim the votes of abolitionists. 

We might say much more to slxiw how utterly ab- 
surd the c 'aims of the whigs are to our votes, but we 
forbear, as we do not conceive it possible that honest 
minds can think any more necessary. The whigs are 
laboring with great zeal in the use of all sort of means 
to deceive and mislead the abolitionists and get their 
votes for a slaveholder and duelist, end v.c v.iote this 
article to put them on their guard. 

Friends of Liberty, let us be faithful and true at the 
Ballot Box, if we do not plant the seed we can never 
expect die fruit 



IT 



POETRY. 



THINK of the slave. 

Think of t >e slave, in your hours of glee, 
Ye w!io in- treading life's flower- way; 

Nought 'iut as ra iklilig tuorns ha< ho. 
Nought but tne gloom of its wintry day. 

Think of the slave, in your hours of woe!-** 1 
What are vonr sorrows, to hat he bears? 

Quenching the li^ht of his boso >'s glow, 
With a life-long stain of gushing tears. 

Ti'lnk of the slave, in you- hours of pnyer. 
When woridl thoiighis in your hearts are dim; 

Offer your thanks ftfr the bliss ye sh.ire, 
But pray for a brighter lot lor him. 

E. M. Chandler. 



From the Emancipate. 

THE DISGUSTED WIFE TO HER HUSBAND. 

You promised to leave off your smoking, 

Thi dav 1 couseU'ed to wed: 
How '■ • ttie I thought yo" weie. jokingj 

How fondiy bi levrd wh.t vou sai'l! 
Tl> n,aia ! how compieteh vou sold me, 

With blandishments artful and vain, 
W' en \ou emu'ied your snuff-box, and told me 

You never would fill it again. 

Those fumes so oppressive, from puffing, 

Sav, what is the solace that flows? 
Aiid whence the en joyment of stuffing 

A parcel of dust in your nose? 
By h. habits y.>u thus are pursuing, 

Tii< re can be no peasure conferred; 
How irrational, then, in w doing! 

Now is it not very absurd? 

Cigars come to three pence eaeh, nearly, 

And six-pence au ounce is your snuff; 
Consider h«w much, then, you \ early 

Miiit waste on mat horrible stuff: 
Why. the sums in tob..cco ou spend, love, 

The wealth in your snuff box you sii k. 
Wo dd procure me of dresses no e;id, love, 

And kei p me in gloves — only think. 

What's worse, for yo.tr pei-sou 1 tremble, 

Tis going ;is fast as it can; 
O! how should you like to resemble 

A smoky* and snuffy old man! 
Then resign at the call of affection, 

The habits 1 cannot endure; 
Or spoil lioth your nose and complexion'* 

And ruin your teeth, 1 am ^ure. 



Wine and Wuiskey* 

'•Hear those leilows how they are carousing ih that 
tavern/' said a dignified looking man to his friend, o.s 
they passed a drinking house a few months ago. "I 
don't see what our police are good for when they tole- 
rate such riotings," 

"Don't be hard on them, Colonel," said the other, 
"they arc only enjoying themselves as wc do some- 
times." 

"As uedo .'"exclaimed the Colonel ; "why yon don't 
insinuate that we have been guilty of such conduct.'" 

"Do you remember our supper at Tom Soaker's the 
other night, Colonel 

"Yes, I do, but what of that?" 

"Why, did not we absorb the wine diligently ?" 

"We!i ; -what of that?" 

Did we not laugh, and shout most merrily?" 
"Well, what if we did?" 
"Did not some of us go home blue ?" 
"That may he." 

"And did we not carry Hal Sponge to his lodgings, 
because he was too boozy to Walk?" 
"Oh hush!" 

"Well, Colonel, pray tell me the difference between 
our party, and the one you would have the police to 
break bp in the tavern?" 

"The differences are striking. In the first place wc 
drank in a private house, they in a public one. Second- 
ly, we drank wine, theg whiskey. Thirdly, we were gen- 
tlemen and lawyers, they are cobblers and tinkers." 

"Capital! But Colonel, great as the differences are, 1 
think there is one very strong feature of resemblance — 
;;om« of our party got drunk and made a, noise, and some 
of their party are drunk and making a noise." 
' Ghn.or ycuffioneense. Do yt«i think tvintrf issctiri?' 1 



Slavery and t h e C h u r c h. 

' It is a debt we owe to the purity of Religion to nf- 
irm tint it can give no countenance to the law whicn 
sanctions SI very. " — Patrick Henry. 

Ed.iard Smith, of Pittsburgh, Pa., a ponu'ar Meth- 
i list minister, in a recent di.-couisc on shivery, states 
fh it the slaveholders in tne section of Virginia in which 
he formerly res. d«d did not preteudj to justify them- 
selves from the Bible, until 'hey were induced to do 
-o by a leading Docor of Divinity. H ■ savs : 

"The Doctor made the important discovery thai 
•Slavery was not sinful, that the relation was ssjuctton- 
• d by the H >l> Scriptures. He was at that time a pro - 
f -^sor in one of the schools of ihe?prophe!s, i. e a The* 
"logical Stminary. This important discovery, which 
whs a soothing unction to the oppressor'sj soul, w*;s 
m .d itnO'vB in an Ecclesiastical association of my native 
dt.ite, Virginia. 

This Rev. D<'. made another discoverv which did him 
more credit than th.s: That it was a sin fur a sla\elo 
pray to fhe Almighty on thoSabbaath day, it the master 
was administering needful chastiiement. He was a 
slaveholder and a severe one too; and often With his, 
i wn hands he applied thecowhide to the naked backs ol 
his slaves. On one occasion, a'woman that s< rved in 
the house, committed on Sabbath morning, an offence 
of too great magnitude to go unpunished until Monday 
morning. In towns and cities in the South, slaves are 
whipped for the most part in cellars to prevent their 
cries from being heard so far as they would be under 
other situations. This is not the case on the planta- 
tions. The dwellers in towns are not willing- to let the 
neighborhood tn which they live know how often they 
whip the 4avrs. The Dr lived in a town, and on this 
occasion took his woman in the cellar, and, as is usual 
in such eases, stripped her fr irn her waist up, and then 
upplied.-the lash. The woman writheland winccd'uu- 
der each stroke, and cried, Oh Lord ! Oh Lord! 
On Lord ! The Dr stoppi-d, and his hands fell to his 
S'de as though struck with the palsy; he gazed on the 
worn -n with astonishment, and thus addressed her, (the 
congregation must par.ion me for repo iting his words :) 
'•bushy ■•u b — h. will you take the name ol the Lord 
in'vuin on the Sabbath day?" he finished whipping, 
and then went and essived to preach t iat 'lospe! to his 
| congregation which proclaims liberty to the captive, 
and the opening of the 'prison doors to them that are 
bound. This was the man w ho made the important 
liscoi er- that si. -very was not sinful ; and surely he was 
just th" rrfan for «ucb a work." Middlesex Standard. 



STAT!'. LIBERTY CONVENTION. 

A Convention of the Liberty Party Voters in 
die State of New Jersey, will be hell in the Otv of 
Newark, on Wednesday the 85th. day of Sept., IS 14, 
at 1 o'clock P. M., for the purpose of nominating a 
candidate for (r.>\crnor. 

The meeting will be held in fie Church at t'le foot 
of Market Street, near the Depot. 

By order of the State Central Committe, 

D. Wells, Chairman. 

Aug. 22, 1?S44. 



Mr. David HaWley. a class-leader in the Methodist 
Church, at St. Al bail's, Licking county. 0'do, who 
moved from Kentucky to Ohio in 1831, testifies as fol- 
lows : — 

"lUjth'A-ear 1S°1 or 2, I saw a slave hung for lul- 
lirii; his master. T e m ;s er had whipped the s'av'-'s 
mother to death, and, locking him ill a room, threat- 
ened hiirl with the same fat- ; and, cowhide in hand, had 
lv g n the work when {he slave joined battle and s'ew 
the master." Slavery As It Is. 

SAMtfBL Er.'usoN.a member oflhe S ciety of Friends, 
formerly of Southampton county, Virginia, t.oiv o; 
Marlborough, StarS county, Ohio, gives th ; following 
testimony : — 

"While a resident of Southampton county, Virginia 
I k- ew two n,en. a ter having been severely trcaterl.cn 
di avorto make their escape. In this they failed — were 
taki n t-ed to Tees, and whippi d to death by their over- 
seer. I lived a mile from the negro quarters, and nt 
hat distance, could frequently hear ;h screams of the 
poor Cm.lures when b. aten. and could also hear the 
b tons giv.n bv the overseer with some heavy instru- 
ment." — Slavery As II Is. 

TESTIMONY OF RVK. JOHN RANKIN, 

"Many poor .-laves are stripped inked, sin tched and 
tied across barrels, or large bags, and tortured with the 
lash timing hours and even whole days, until their flesh is 
mangled to the very boms. — Slavery As It Is. 

lfe> The hist cu. turner of tao rumeeller is the poor- 
est cortoiiipf to any ot^er trade. 



FIFTH DISTRICT CONVENTION. 

The Liberty Voters of tne Fifth Congressional 
Distri.Ot-, will please meet in convention iu the City of 
Newark, on Wednesday the 25tu, day of Sept. next, 
at 2 o'clock P. M. 
The Meeting will be held in the Church foot of M:r« 
ket Street, near the Depot. 

Darius Wells, 
Aic-x. H. Freeman, 
Wright Fuiveil, 
John Lee, 
Isaac Van Blarcom. 

Augf. 22, 1844. 



ESSEX COUNTY CONVENTION. 

The Liberty Voters of Essex County, will meet 
in Convention, in the City of Newark on the 2oth. nay 
of Sept. next at 3 o'clock in the af eruoon. 

Themeetmg will be held in the Church foot cf 
Market Street. 

Alex. H. Freeman, 
John Lee, 
Richard Kelsal. 

Aug. 22, 1844. 



FOURTH DISTRICT. 



The LIBERTY VOTERS of the fourth con- 
gressional district, will meet in Convention tit the 
Free Church in Boon ton on Saturday toe 21, of Ser»t, 
inst., at 2 o'ciock P. M., for the purpose of nomina- 
ting a candidate, for Congress for this District. 
Sept. 6th. 1844. 



MORRIS COUNTY CONVENTION. ' 

The Friends of Liberty in Morris County, are 
hereby notified to meet in Ihe Free Church in Boon, 
ton on Saturday the 21st, of Sept. iust., al 3 o'clock 
P. M., for the purpose of nominating candidates for. 
the Legislature and other necessary business. 
Sept. 6lh. 1844. 

AMI SvLaVeY BOOKS. 

A variety of Anti Slavery books are on 
band and for sale at (he office of the New 
Jersey Freeman 

The folowing individuals will helpojj the 
cause of liberty by acting as agents ibr this 
paper. 

Jacob Ik Brotherton. 
John Lee, West Bloomlield, 



C. Peloubct 
Richard Kelsal, 
\\ tn. F. Gardner, 
Wright Flavell, 
James Howe, 



Blootnhehl, 
. Orange, 
Newark. 



Paterson, 
Jersey Cily. 
Joseph J. Fitzgerald, West IVlilfurd, 
Stephen Grimes, Stafthope, 
I^phraim Guard, Succasunna, 
Peter Ellis, Crosswicks, 
Baxtr Sttyre, Madison. 
Any other friend of liberty, will confer 
it favor and aid ou t he cause of Freedom, 
by helping in the circulation of this paper 







VOL. I. 



BOONTOX, OCTOBEK, !-4 1. 



TT ¥7^ 



FREEMAN 



WILL BE I-t'-BLISlIfcD MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRiMES, Enron and Profiuetok. 
L'ooniov, Claris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our pajier is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 



meeting intensely interesting. The eitpense of course 
would be considerable, but it could all be rased by on.' 
or two collections each day during its coiHiiHia.ce. I hope 
our friends will take the suggestion into consider* ion 
and be prepared to develop* it at the time already hinted. 

Will tiie committee appoin ei by the State nt;»-; : ng 
for the purpose of having the n m Constitution *djudi- 
cated in reference to our »lave i*v, s, be apprised U*. 
the inquiry on tl a. topic is cp;v».'ing mpiuiy, and the 
public will look tor their action with t*^er interest. 
Yours for tiie rights ol man. 

Aleat. li. Freeman. 



For tlie Freeman. 

Orange, Sept. 7th. 1844. 
Dr. Grimes, The New Jersey Fryman coniiuues 
ii* a.on.iuy Visits, and appears 'o my fancy like a Low 
of promise to our cause ui this State; 1 trust our men. 
who laandie a pointed pen will not lorget to contri- 
bute to your columns. 

Tii-. it tation given in the 2d. number by yourcorroa- 
pendent "Viator," of the celebration ol independence 
day wnich he witnessed, reminded me of a sin oi omis- 
sion not unlike that, enacted in this place last spring, 
perhaps tl might have been as late m the montii it June. 

Tut agent of the American Tract Society, M?. East- 
man, as i an) inibrnnu his name is, visited here i*> pre- 
sent me claims of thai institution and receive. Ene annu- 
al contributions ot ih< people, in ike course of his re- 
m*.. in the second church where I heart) nun, he took 
anextensi\ e vieV pf the prospective condition of our 
na out our population quadrupled in fifty years, our 
Rail roads, Ofenais and other business and traveling la 
cihties increased tenfold, our USstless citizens bussed in 
their multifarious avceations, and a.sked in view of ail 
this, ought not the winged messengers of truth and duty 
to be increased in a much greaTer ta'io. He particular 
ized; divided the aforesaid po^iaiion into chiefs, and 
^■Pried e-Jpecialiy as to what Would thee be the condi- 
tion of the descendants of our German and Roman 
Ca lioiic population whether Germans or other*., a\ rel- 
et, tie,: to the claims and influence of chria'ianivy. but 
notwithstanding all his generalizing and particularizing, 
all the seeming interest which he took in the welfare 



We- are constantly receiving horn all parts of the 
Free State?, ne« and continued momfe** ion- «* ii" 
absoiuie hostility of iLe Wcigg to ti e L >*rty j»t*j 
•nd tiie true reason why »«• a»» bound to • n't-r :i e :»• it! 
J cuntroveiaj • th them m tl a. tl • ; ».■• in a!! j**t* ei 
the couatiy uotay a't they <mr< to whip and dri* e, to«x 
deceive and misl %a the Libar y peters and compel dtere 
them to go folCiay, while they profess u be tiie tru- 
frii iid» oi iiber»y, and do aa they have a . * ay a been do- 
iug— promising to go i«r freedom f<«' never penorming. 

YYe receive Liberty y papers from nearly all dh 
Pre* ;><a es, and the testimony (riot! is, that the v» »..£.- 
a-f-re never putting forth auch untiring and unprim ij i «' 
"i.-erls to annihiia.e the Liberty party as a the pr •» n 
time. As we are charged by aonte of them with grea. 
"#<-nrrillity; M %e g;»e a little specimen of "seurriliuy" 
(Vo n the p n of the New England Quaker Poet. We 
copy the following irum die "MiMdieal it S am ard," a 
i.:hi*riy jiaper published at Low 41, jtass. with John G 
Whitiier for Editor. Such specimens of "scurrillity" the 
Whig*, by the course they are pursuing, are extorting 
lion' a!' Liberty- i«arty_ papqta ju.jliC land, in „ 
forty in ini!!:ber. 

STAIvE FIRM. 

Ne*»r perhaps since the commencement of the anti 
slavery eo.erprize :a»ve such persevering and desperate 
eftdlrts been made to seduce the friends of abolition trout 
their van' age ground of decided and uncomp.vn .s':.g 
opposition U) slavery, as ai tbe present time. All over 
the Free »>att s. Whig orators, from i aniel Webster 
tiownwaru, and Whig uew s{japers, iionithe iNew Fork 



NO, 

bitterness, ""alienat ion and discord." 

And reittemij*^ that the Whig prrx--.es ard Whig or- 
a^ora all said Amen to the nvwsag" of the President. 

k'-memb^r, that tlie VVhig Cabinet under Gen. Har- 
risou wa» composed of siavehoders and pro-slavery men 
e*x»usiv«*ly; tl*t in the esse of the' Post Master Gener- 
al, who from his location vvaasHjspfeeted ot entertaining 
«sti ♦** tv viev. a, ife PreiiUent required him to say 
tfta U- ajsso aholittonist. and- 'that if he shottM ever" 
become one tie attouiu det-m it a sulhcient gt ound for 
h is removal from office! 

And remenii»er tha; no Whig p»p»T arid no Whig cr- 
a'or Bfx**- out against tiiis »»iiol-»a;e proscription ol a 
tilitioti's's. 

h -Jus «ar done under G-"H. Bawison, a non-slavehol- 
d r, ».,d »-.»idt«t ot a Fw*» S-at*-, in the name of hu» 
'•••ii-', . » ! • are we u> expect Irorc a blaVeltolder and 
• r-t-ii n .♦- • ?-lav.' Sra e? 

Once m«r»- we aav to our frFnds every wnfefe: Re- 
meraber and s^-akd fikxi. If you wouid bn-ak 
,-» ,v r «> i m -eiui t»iave Vo v r — if you would prevent 
the armexa.jon of 1-*a», STAfsl) FIRM ' 



of our country, all which was designed to wake up be- 
nevolence in view of the great subject, he never made 
the slightest, allusion to our two and a half million of 
slaves, denationalized., brutalized, men, women and t 

children, with, to say the least, equal claims upon his {Tribune downward, are engaged m a simultaneous, pre 
attention. Our German population mav number, say concerted, and completely systematized etlort to draw 
half a million, the Catholics double that number, and it I away Liberty votes— to annihilate the Liberty power of 
is of unmeasured importance that their feet should be | the i\orlh, h av ing the southern Slave Power once more 
guided in the path of righteousness, but the slaves! 0,1 without a rival— to break the seined lines ot I-reedom, 
there is not < iu i*.e three millions of them, altogether too and thus enable Slavery to regain her old position, a; d 
in.dgr,;iV-r.iit a class in numbers and destitution to arrest advance to new conquests over the rights and liberties 
the attention of the agent and advocate of an Ane riean | of the people. Professing a love for freedom, in vo ici - 
Benevolent Society, and "with which to arouse the sym-j hoarse with singing the praises of a slaveholder, they 
path! -< of Am-riean Christians; alas! alas! vith what | come to us, in public and private, m the street a 
thunder-peal emphasis may the slave groan out in lite our fixe-sio\ s, beseeching us to vote "this once" for 



From the Liberty Herald. 
ADVERTISEMENT. 
TS*> following niitice is clipped from a Baltimore 
paper: 

j J r >0 REWARD. — Runaway from the subscriber, 
on Lfce it. tfc inal:, a bngiu mu.la to woman named Poiy 
*. ary, a>?ed >• ai», li e lee- .wo indies tugh, rather 
dei. au- in t:.», and 1 as thkk lips and 1 igii cheek 
eon- a; her tie t -ng *■ k, good, and she took with her a 
considerable quan .hy oi tu 

Tiie above reward will b» paid for the recovery of 
sa d negi'O out of Uie »ui ♦• of Jrlaryiand, if secured that 
i g -t ws again, and jl »d it n and se ured in 
Maryla.id. . GttoKr.E Rust, 

iNo. 177 North Charles St., Laumiore. 

fri. m: h.r whom -his iii>era3 reward is o'^fed — 

desiring not to be out-don- tn generosity, — has hune.ed 
I us the follow ing for publication. We insert is with 
great pleasure. - 

3 At REWARD will be pa'd for the recovery of 
services, rendered for six years, by tie subscriber to 
George Rust, No. i 77 Nor*!- Una, i •» Street, iianimore, 
n whose employ J I ave U-en for 'hat '.'fee m ithotAaje- 
muneration, and* who is well able to pay his just deles, 
but, like aii slaveholders, has no disposition to do so. 

Poi.y Carv, 
Of Oueeh Victoria's Dominions. 



midst of his unrequited toil, "no man eareth for any 
soul." 

I hav» a suggestion to make to New Jersey abolition- 
is's, otie which. I would have made at our recent State 
Meeting had it not slipped my mind at the proper time, 
and which 1 wish to make thus early that our friends 
may reflect upon it, and be prepared to advise the Ex- 
ecutive Committee in relation to it at the annual meet- 
ing in January next. You know that the great obsta- 
cle to the spr-«d of an'i slavery fee!ing and action a- 
mdng us. is the unwillingness of the people to hear and 
investga<e our real sentments; if we could get our prin- 
ciples fairly before the people, and urge them upon their 
consciences, we would undoubted iy make fine headway: 
w-U, I propose that -onie time, during the next sum - 
mer, and at some well selected place, we hold an Anti 
Shmrn C'tmn Meethifi;. 1 feel satisfied that the nov- 
el'y and romance of such a meeting, with its continu- 
ance for a week, the teterefttion incident to attending it, 
which are always supplied or can he at camp meetings, 
would bring out thousands of poeple; and lh*n we must 
secure the artond&ncje of a dozen or more of our stong 
est men; A'lvan Stewart, Gerrct Smith, Leavitt, Stan* 
ton, Pi.-rn-i-it, Co! ver, B'owh, Garnet, with our owe 
W' hV Porrance, Wise and others, most be there; G. 
W. Clark, the vocalist must be tEre if he can be had 
in a word no efi'ort should be spfttcd to make such a 



.mo a 
the i r 

andidate, and vouching for their party as "an anti-slav- 
erv par v" 

'it is the old game of 1S40 played over, when by per- 
suasives and promises of anti-slavery 7 action on the part 
of theWhigs, if successful, a large majority of thefi ieiK'.- 
of freedom were induced to swell the majority ot "Tip- 
pecanoe and Tyler too." 

Who does not know* the result of Whig promises and 
the end of Whig profession in 1840? — 
QfrNsot one promise has been fulfilled! Not one profess- 
ion carried o< i in practice! 

Remember this. Liberty men of the North. Bene: 
again deceived. Whefl the partisans of a SLAVEfiO] - 
! EB ask for your votes, remember 1840, and STAN 1 
FIRM. 

K' member that the first act of Gen. Harrison was tc 
declare, in his inaugural message, that the schemes oi 
those who w ere seeking to legislate for the District ol 
Columbia should "never be realized" by his agency. 
w'-' -And remember that no Whig editor, and no Whip 
orator, condemned this Whig "Veto Pledge," hut tha 
they on the contrary applauded it. 

Rcmen I er that 'in the same message, the Whir Pies 
ident cow'* mned the w hole anti-slavery movement , a: 
" the certft'ii 1 arh : rgr r of eisunicn, violence and civi 
v. a r"— and pronounced the sin pie "agitation" of ti • 
question "productive of no other consequences thai 



Good HeroMineudntton. At a Contention in Jackson, 
in iVeicingan, the following resolutien was puss- d: 

l Hesolvefi, That we eaution all our Liberty friends 
to keep their necks out of the horrible Folic, and their 
feetirom themirv Clay.'' — I oice of Freedom. 



Mr. Polk as Slave Master. "Roorback's Tottt 

through the Southern Spates in 1836" describes a wretch- 
ed groun of 200 slaves whom he saw on their Way from 
Deck river to some Louisania Sugar Mills. and adds-*- 

"Forty three of these unfortunate beinto* had beer, par- 
chdsed, I was informed, of the Hon. J. K. Folic, the 
present Speaker of the If o use of Representatives. The 
mark of the branding iron 'icftk the initials oi his name on 
their shoulders distinguished i he in from the rest." 

Sentinel of Freedom, 

The humafte reader is left to reflect mat this same 
I. K. Polk, is now a candidate for the highest office i« 
the gift of this American people. 

The above if true, which indeed comports with (In- 
spirit of both the slave-holding candidates, is bat anolh 
-r item added to the thousand reasons w hy ail men 
should desert the pro-siavery partus, and rally around 
he standard of EiRNEY AND LIBEtRTV. 

]\T"int> — Tie- 1. inert' v t in Maine as far fis heard 
...n. s 6 445. There will be a large mCr-Mis • at the 
November election, ot .he Libert;, Vute in U,u Sta.e. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN, 

BOON TON, OCTOBER. 



Let us thro.v oti the mask. — 'usacouw^to on-, a*, t>. .- 
and the world will see through it. It will not do thus tc 
talk like philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants.. 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text, 
and actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. Phickney, of Mnrylav.d. 

In all things thathav beauty, there is nothing to man 
more comely than LIBERTY Mlton. 

LIBERTY TICKET. 
For President, 

JAMES G. I31RNEY ; 
OF MICHIGAN 
For Vice President, 

THOMAS MORRIS 

OF OHIO. 

For Electors, 

DARIUS WELLS, 
JAMES HOWE. 
THOMAS V. JOHNSON, 
ALEXANDER H. FREMAN 
STEPHEN GRIMES. 
ALEXANDER BLACK, 
SAMUEL HALL. 

For Governor, 
JONATHAN P » RK HURST. 

We cail the attention of those in our County to the 
notice in another column of the Mass Meeting in Bo s- 
ton, let all come that can, and we hope that some may 
come in from other Counties. 

The Election comes on Tuesday and Wednesday of 
next week, and wfc believe an important one for the 
cause of Liberty. Let abclitionisis be true to their pro- 
fessions, and forever banish the "this once" idea. Our 
enemies see the importance to our cau>e of being firm 
now, and why should we not see it. Th-jy see that the 
final success of our cause, demands that we should act 
consistent with our professed creed, and carr^ our prin - 
ciples to the Ballot-box now, and tba< is what troubles 
them} they see in tire success ot uur cause, the annihi- 
lation of all the pro-slavery parties in the land. Our 
principles carried out, (and they will be if we are true,) 
will destroy the hopes oftho.se who are fa'tening on the 
unrequited toil of their fellow men, and who are ready 
to enslave the poor every -where, white as well as black, 
as soon as the law is ready to ''make property'? of them; 
those whose aim is to oppress the poor always, in some 
way, whether bond or free, in order to secure their own 
aggrandizment. We say, that our opponeots, the slave 
holders and their apologists, see the power of the Bal- 
lot-box in this cause when faithfully used, and tremble. 
Why should ice not see it? Friends of Freedom, fof 
Justice and Peace, our faithfulness will prove theterroi 
of our foes; and the foes of all mankind. 



STATE LIBER f Y CONVENTION". 

ISkwabk, N. J. Sept. 25tb , 1844 
Aceor».ling*to notice, the friends of the Liberty party 
: n New Jersey, held their convention in the Church 

foot of Market Street. «• 

Darius Wells of Patterson was appointed Chairman 
and Wm. F. Gardner, Secretary. 

Prayer was ottered by Rev. Mr. Parsons. 

Jonathan Parkhurst of Springfield, was unanimously 
nominated as the Liberty Candidate for Governor. 

On motion, A. H. Freeman, John Lee and John 
Grimes were appointed a committee to inform Mr. 
Parkhurst of his nomination, and request his acceptance. 

On Motion, it was'resoived that the present central 
Committee be reappointed. 

On Motion, T. V. Johnson, Wright Flavell, and C. 
Pelouhet were appointed to secure the publication of 
the nominations. Adjourned. 

D. Wells , Chairman. 
Wm. F. Gardner, Secrary. 



Fourth District Convention, 
Was held in the Free Church Boonton Sept. 21, 1844. 
and John D. Mills of Warren Co. was unanimously 
nominated for Congress to represent this District. 



Fifth District C onvention, 
Was held in Newark, Sept. 25, and Dr. John A Payne 
of Newark, was unanimously nominated for the District. 



Essex County Convention! 
This Convention u as held in Newark Sept. 25 1844 
C. Peloubet Chairman, E. R. Crane Secretary. 
The following Liherty Ticket was adopted. 
For Senator, John Lee. 

For Assembly, 
Chabrier Peloubet, William Paterson, Samuel I. 
Dorrance, James Ball, James White, John Gibbs, 
Peter Courier. 

For Sheriff, Richard Kefcal. 
For Clerk, William F. Gardner. 



Morkis County Convention. 

This Convention was held in the Free Church the 21 
Sept., and adopted if* following Ticket. 

For S.. vl! lor, B-'n a nin B. Griswold. 

For Asscmhh/, Hen.y K-cp, Daniel C. Norris, 
James B. Crimes, William Brothertdn. 

For ShrnfjL Charles E Nor/is 

For Coroners, VVihiaro Kmgsland, Elias Genung, 



Wo like the idea suggested by our friend Freemen ol 
an Antislavery Camp meeting and shall make some com- 
ments on his letter in our next. 



Cannot the friends in dint-rent parts, where libcrt . 
voters are, send at least one or more to our meeting O! 
Saturday, and get their Tickets. 



It i-i no crime at all for a Whig to outrageously alms 
a Liberty party man, but it is a great crime for a tibeft 
party man io say anything in his own defe nce. 

We have just r ceived] a lott r Joni a friend i: 
8uas-;x$|Oourryy it brings .encouraging bWws for tl, 
Li!».«rJP psr. e 



Passaic County Tkkci. 
For Senator, Joseph J. Fuzg-ra'd. 
For 4wew%,'#enjamia Crane, L. Rowland Borden, 
For Sheriff, Isaac Van Blarcom. 
For Coroners, Isaac H. Van Riper, William Ball, 
John W. Pulis. 

A COR It REPORT PEN FROM ESSEX COUNTY WRITES, 

"There is nothing so calculated to call forth indig- 
nant feeling, as the deep prejudice existing against a 
race that only need the opportunity of developing their 
intelb'ctua! powers, to !>• come as enlightened and intel 
ligent as theitpiflefaced oppressors. 1 will acknowledge 
U.ut 1 cannot listen Lo arguments with any degree ol' 
calmness when the pi -a constantly bi ought forwa d is 
'they cannot take care of themselves, they have no in 
■dlect." Siranrfe philosophy; load a man with fetters de- 
grade and oppress in every possible mann t, make bin 
irink the bitter draught of slavery to the very dregs, & 
ake from hint e\er\ motive, evarj incentive to exetion 
md then complain hat slavery does not produce speci 
aens of iniolgeiiafe and intellect. A friend speaking 01 
e "N-'w Jersey F. 'Mn,.n," calls it the first ray 0 
n'g it from New Jersey, and I only hope the rays will be 
.ghter & brigh(er-until souk.- oi' th< mists of ignorant 
.all be dispelled; 

A New York Evangelical Congregational Associ 
ion !>as een organized in N. Y., y Fre Chun 
-linisters and ha,*i published ixa atidr. ss to the publi 
.viiici.. v.-e shall gi\e.a move «.\fvt *•<• >t" ice in oat next 



We not only feel it a right, but a duty to examine th 
character and qalifications of men held up as candidate 
for our highest offices- We do not do this because wetuk 
pleasure in so doing, but because we cannot omit it an< 
feel engaged in the discharge of an important duty. 

The two pro-slavery parties are continually labourin 
to persuade abolitionists to vote for a slaveholder as thf 
best means to promote emancipation. The whigs espej 
cially, are making every effort to make the abolitionists 
vote for them, because they have such a good man fo: 
vice President — Mr. Frelinghuysen was recommend ft 
by some as a man that would get Liberty votes in 
C lay- We have thus far said nothing about this man 
but the use that is made of his name to cheat libera 
men out their votes, compels us to speak out in referents 
to him. He received but a few votes at the Ballimort 
Convention the first ballo'ings, but was noinina ed afte; 
a caucus of southern members agreed to it. 

He has recently written a letter to the south, whicl 
sufficiently show s the fallacy of his claims to the sup 
port of liberty men; he does not even give us the leasj 
room, in that letter, to suppose him any tiling but an 
approver and upholder of slavery- We copy it with thf 
editorial remarks, from John G. Whittier's Middlese| 
Standard. 

KISSING THE IMAGE. 

Who doubts that slavery governs the North? — Then 
is the Whig candidate for vice-Presidency down on 1 I 
knees before the devil-alter of the south. Let th« 
whigs read it: It is addressed to Dr. Hall (^Mississippi 
"New York, June 11, lt-44. 

"Dear Sir: I received your kind favor, and than! 
you for the friendly interest you have taken in tin 
matter. I very cheerfully respond that F am not vn oh i 
olHionist and never have been. I have b"en an arden 
friend of the colonization society, and still am. Slave) 
ry in the States is a domestic concern, that Congresj ' 
has not the right or power to interfere with, in its It gisi 
lation. Ver respetcfu//y, 

Your obedient servant, 

THEO. FRELINGHUYSEN 

In 1838 a great meeting was ca//ed in Newark, 01 
account of the Cilley duel, one in which Mr. Clay acte< 
a conspicuous part, and Mr. Frelinghuyson wjS invit 
to attend the meeting. He could not attend, and vroj 
the following letter as an expression of his views an 
feelings, in relation to the object of the meeting. 

Trenton N. J., March 5 1838 

Gentlemen-- On my way to the cars lor this j lacj 
this morning, 1 received your note of invitation to atten 
a meeting ot our fellow citizens at Newark to-nio'roi 
evening, on the subject of the ate duel at Washington 
1 sincerely regret that my professional duties here, wij 
detain me rom the meeting-/or if ever on occasion cal 
for an expression of the public feeling, the late s> n .1 ( 
SHOCKING VIOLENCE most solemly demand i 
Truly "the blood of war has bet n shed in peace; 1 ' ;;ni 
this in high places and among the law makers of oq 
country. 

THE LAW OF THF DUELIST IS AN OUl 
RAGE UPON EVERY PRINCIPLE OF OF IE 
ANDHUMAN1TY.1T .SETS THELAWS 3 
GOD AT DEFIANCE, and if this MURDERUU 
SPIRIT be not met and fearlessly REBUKED, 61. a 
frowns of public sentiment, on ourselves will abide much j 
(he mill of MURDER. It can be checked and eflecn 
ally repressed, whenever the people, true to their hid 
duties'j shall rise in the majesty of public opinion, uti 
frown upon these ATROCIOUS DEEDS OF YM 
LENCE; and the blood of the MURDERED, tin ted] 
f the tfcrec ved, an<l the commands of a righteous C/J 
nail uj>on them now to speak, find hear their stent and ft 
lignemi testimony arpuist this HEAVEN DARi>i 

im. 

I hope, gentlem"n, that your meeting and proce J 
ngs may exert a powerful iuiluence, ant! with kindJ 
:emonstrations all over the land, prevail to crush ih| 
■darming evil. Yours respectfully, 

Taeodork Frei.inchuvskn. 
Wo now End him "Kissing the Imaol m in relation 
.his prac.tice-The follow ing is an extract irom an addrt 
c.niiv given by Mr. F. to thewh^soi Catskill N. l| 
' ■'iiie position in which Mr. C hiy waspiaceo at tl 
imeoi his duel with Randolph, rtnd«redit impossil 
tor liun,a r<-»:dpt ol" sou.t.eni i.nut- whrtc it,; , .■ 
i.ied "law s of ionor" w ere fully rocognia d, to ov| 
aok the pointed K r'tpeattd instut 01 his (UAUtgonisUjI 



retain his standing in Congress. He, Mr. F., believed Mr 
Clay erred, but Mr.G* did not even pretend to be a Chris 
tian, though he had often wished be were, and had no 
therefore that support which the Christian reltgioi. 
would have afforded him. It was a custom-a prevailing 
one in the southern clime, where Mr. Clay, resided 8 am 
wifhiag to vindicate, according to established usage, hit. 
good name from the aspersions of Mr. Randolph, h< 
had sought redress in the manner he did " 

If this is not a criminal steering to the dirty work ol 
a corrupt party— we cannot conceive what would be. 
Truly in our estimation, Mr. F. is very far from occupy- 
ing an enviable position for a gr a and good man. 
Friends of Liberty, be not deceived! 



JONATHAN WALKER'S LETTER. 

Pensacoi.a, July 29, 1844. 
Dear Wife and Children — 1 nave the privilege by 
the mercy of our Goti and Father, of writing to you again, 
but my situation is tar trom being w hat i w ould choose. 
Aooui the time 1 wrote my last letter, which was, 1 think 
the ISthof June, 1 had made some arangements to vaice 
some passengers to iNassau, New Proviuence,a little to 
the eastward of Cape Florida. On ihc 23d 1 started With 
seven colord persons in my boat— i was quite unwell two 
days before we left here, and the sixth day out i did no. 
expect to survive twenty -four hours; but the next day 
1 \.as a little better; and two or three days afterward i 
haa another severe ill turn, which i did but survive. My 
sicKuess was intermittent fever and inward canker, 
brought on by extreme exposure. 1 never saw sucn not 
w r eatljer in my life. We proceeded on our voyage dawn 
the coast, until the 8th ot July, when the sloop Eliza- 
beth Catherine, of Key West, ( a wrecker ) fell m 
With us near Cape Florida, and look us by torce lo Kt) 
\Vesi. There 1 was taken before a justice of the peace, 
asiiicy are called, and from thence to jail, where 1 re- 
mained four days, and then was put down a steamboat's 
hoid, among iiith,where it was extremely warm, and 
put in irons, hands and feet, where 1 remained nearly 
the whole time for six days, during winch time sue 
came to Pensacoia, and here I was taken 10 the court 
house, and from thence to jail, where 1 remain, d secur- 
ed to a large ring boh by a chain made ol i.aii inch iron, 
and a sltackle round my ankle, which weighs about five 
pounds, so that 1 have to lie or sit down ail the time. If 
1 could walk the room it w ould ailord me great relief. 
1 have for four or live daysrecoved my healih quite fast 
but from the 25th of June untill the 23d of July, I was 
not able to sit up three hours in a day, and nearly all the 
the time very much exposed. 1 cannot say when I shall 
have my trial, nor what, the result will be. 
the regular term of court does not come on untill Novem- 
ber, but the judge does not know but thai he shall ap- 
point a special term before thai time. 
In about one day more, if we had not fallen in with an 
enemy, we should have been out of their way altogether. 

Jane! what is to become of thee, and the children' 
I have lost nearly what little I had, in the fracas, and 
I am confident thatyou are needy ai this time. You had 
better send and get the proceeds of that iron and spars 
w hich I sent to Fali River, and do as w ell as you can. 
Write me as soon as you get this, that I may know 
how it is. 

The Lord Jesus has been abundantly good to me 
through all my afflictions thus far, and I feel and trust 
that his Spirit will accompany me through — for I can- 
not let him go. Should I be taken aw ay to day, I feel 
that a!i will be well beyond the grave. My confidence is 
stone in Him, for he has purehsod redemtion by his 
blood for sueh viie sinners as me. 

Dear wife and children, trust to Jesus for help. If you 
do in earnest ,He will prove your best friend here and 
hereafter. Get your information from the New Testament 
and do not trust in flesh. 0 ! my dear old parents, don* 
v nny about me, for I am in good spirits and shall wea- 
ther the storm. JON A. WALFFR. 

"1HK LEAST OK TWO EV1I..V 
"With slave-holders and advocates of eternal slavery 
heading both parties, how can any true anti-s'a cry man 
hesitate? It is hard, in this cass, I think, to choosi 
the leant of two evils." 

The Testimony of Washington. 
"There is but one proper and eliectunl mode b< 
which the overthrow of slavery can be accomplished 
and that is by legislative, authority, and this, so far a 
my suffrage will go, shall not be w anting." 

105 Democrats in Madison Count}' IV . Y. have d< soi- 
led PoUc and come out for pirnejutl ey havf publisher 
nn address to their foimer associate, inviting them t< 
join under the liberty .Standard. 



For the New Jersey iV..cii.au 
Mr. Editor. There' are many v. ho ha\o not don 
testifying slavery; or at least, they have not ceased u 
,'xcuse it. There are not a iew w ho have be imprcs 
sion that the bible countenances the system. They tin. 
chat a system of ser itude did exist among the Jews 
tnd conclude therefore, that the horiidsysiemofSou.h 
em Slavery is not incompatible w i.h the principles oi 
revelation. It is obvious that tiny might by some con 
venient logic, vindicate polygamy, or any other practice 
w hich was tolerated by a necessity w hicn "the hardness 
of men's hearts" in those days created. The argumen 
from the bible for slavery is good for nothing unless an 
essential similarity between ancient servitude and mod- 
em slavery can be es'ablishcd; and even then it must be 
further proved that w hat w as su. ered to exist three 
thousand years ago under peculiar circumstances, may 
be lawful now under totally different circumstances. 

Neither of these points, it is believed c:m be at ali es- 
tablished. 

There is a more summary way, "however, of driving 
slavery from its refuge under the woid ot <Jou which 
I w ish here to_ indicaie It is to bring the system into 
the light of some of the general una universal principles 
of the New Testament. It will be seen at once that the 
system of slavery must flee before them as thedarknesa 
before a meridian sun. 

Take first the pnnciqle's indicated by sueh passages 
as the following: "With what measure ye mete, it shai 
be measured to you again." Whatsoe ver a man sowetl . 
that shall he also reap." "Em ii ye forgive not men 
their trespasses, neither will your Father ioigive your 
trespases." 

Now what does Mr. Slaveholder mete out to his slave? 
Does he expect from Cod w hat he measures to God's 
image which he grinds to ihe earth with his iron heel/ 
There is one thing w hich God supremely values; it is 
the happiness of intelligent matures, 'lo promote thi . 
he has given existence to a rational creation; for this 
end only lie administers his nioial government; for the 
advancement- of this end he Las given Ins Sun to dh 
upon the cross; for this end the law" ol Ccd and ihe gos- 
pel of his Son were heralded hen. 1 cave n. He ha] pi- 
ness of his creatures is as the apple of God's eye which 
cannot be touched without- arousing the angry thunders 
which sleep behind his throne. Now slavery in its 
bold defianc oi God's will and iaw, tears from its subject 
ruthlessly, not only the happiness which inheres to the 
very constitution of human nature, but the very means 
w hich God has appointed to sweli and perpeiuaie the 
tide ofbliss. To possess the knowledge of God, is topos 
sess happiness in its purest form. 

Slavery says to its victims, "you shall not have the 
knowledge ol God nor of any thing else w hich can min- 
ister to your happiness; and if any one would ieaehyou 
to read he shall be fined $-500 for the first ofll nee, and 
be put to death for the seccond." Lnhappiness on the 
other hand, God is infinitely anxious to prevent. 

V\ hat a w orld of unhappiness does slavery give exis- 
tence to! Its horrors who can depict? As it cleaves dow n 
all the social relations, and breaks asunder w ith horrid 
violence, all the tender ties of heart to heart, what des- 
oiutiondose it leave in its path ! 

How can it be that slaveholders shall mete out such 
things, and then have eternal blessedness measured to 
them? Will Cod allow them to tow injustice' sor 
row, tears and anguish broad cast ali over theft plan ;. 
ions, and then to reap "pleasures forevermore at his 
tight hand."? Believe it who can. "Whatsoever a mart 
oweth, that shall he also reap." 

Again,' The great center truth and gospel fact brough 
ml in the New Testament, is equally at w ar w ith Sla 
ery. Thattruil i this: "Thou shah love ihy neighbc 
is thyself, "As ye would .that others should do to you 
■ o ye even so to litem." This principle illustrated it 
he life of christ and his disciples, makes it "more Lies 
ed lo give than to receive," so that when there wa 
teed, the disciples sold all and laid it at the aposile 
••et to be distril uted to tl osc w 1 o might v ant. It v r. 

g dry of Paul who only loved his neighbor as himst. . 
u Le t iOor that he might make many rich, to be in siripv.. 



mprisonrnenis, tumults, labor*, watchings, Ui.-,!ii.g/, J 

• ssiues, and distresses," that he might promote the wo! - 
fare of others. This is the spirit of the gospel of Christ. 

Has it any fellowship with, the spirit of slavery? Cn 
lie two walk together? Let the spirit of the gospel a. : i 
t is, be carried out and it would give freedom to every 
4ave 'n an hour. Every shackle and fetter would fall 
itfat once, ant 1 many would be made rich in the tr-~as- 
ures of blessedness and hope. The tongue of the dumb 
wouid sin/, streams would break forth in the deserts; in 
ihe land ot' slavery would be found "joy and gladness, 

• . a ikogiving and the voice of melody." 

Can it be that any thing less would result were the 
spirit of the gospel to take the place of the spirit of sla- 
very? We thiuk not. How Bishop Hedding ccuid evei 
itave said "the right to hold a slave is founded on this 
rule, Therefore all things whatsoever ye would «] at 
men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them;' we 
cannot conceive, unless he interpcted the rule as did an 
infidel once in our hearing. "I c heat others as much as 
I can and I want they should cheat me as much as they 
can". Could any man w isb himself made the victim o? 
..lave law s and slave-holding tyranny' Such, a man do^a* 
not exist. Then let him not enslave others or '■teach, men 
.«>,' at the peril oi his SOUL. 

.CT APK .SON. 



m 



Jaivies h. Fdl.K 

Tie D> mocrr t 1 Candidate fir the Presidency, has 
done so little as a public man, that we have not bee n 
able o say anything a! out him for good or evil, except 
that he voted in Congress against a bill abolishing t!v> 
Foreign Slave trace. As a private citizen, lie is ii, ; 
owner of about 100 slaves, thataie worked on his plan- 
tation in Alabama under an overseer, and treated as all 
other slaves are treated, where the object is, to get all 
out of them possible in the shortest space- oi time, witlj 
• he least possible return. . 

An article in another column, will show that lie is a 
human flesh monger ora& large scale; 43 slaves out of a 
gang oi 3t>0 (no'. ~0w) slav s on their way io the sugar 
; tov\ 'r.g regions, w here the average tHttatiun of the ■ 
of a slave is only 7 y aj>, v. eie .pun hasi d cf the ih ri 
oeratie candidate, and had been mark • i.e. 'a i.ot bn.a- 
bing iron on ihe shoulder whii the Ir. tia'p, 

J- Ik. p 

We appe al to all hone st L'emocia s to eh sort such a 
standaid of democracy, as unwoi'hy their support, and 
rally around the true Liberty standard. The eleva.n u. 
of such a man to the highes. ofliee in the gift of a free 
people, wili be a lasting disgrace to the nation, expose 
us to the scolis of the civilized world, &sum lion the vil- 
est system of oppression "that ever saw the sim." 



CLAY, FOLK and the TAB IFF. 
The Whigs call upon the Liberty Party to disband 
and vote for Clay in order to save ihe taiiif. We give be. 
low the views ot both Candidates upon that subjcci,and 
we defy any man to tell which most favors a tariff, 
CLAY. POLK.. 
Let the amount which I am in favor of a tar- 



ts requisite tor an econom- 
ical administration of the 
government when we are 
not engaged in war, be rai- 
ed exclusi ely on foreign 
imports; and in adjusting a 
tariff for that purpose, let 
such discriminations be ma 
ee as will foster and en 
'■ourage our own domestic 
'ndustry. All partie.- ought 
o be satisfied with a 
fr'for reve nue and discjim 
Dating for protection. — 

I Speech at I'a't igh, in 
Sat. June 29, l£w4. 



iff for revenue, sue? a or. - 
a» will yield a sumci-Ti; a.- 
nmunt to the treasure to 
defray the exp< ns.s oft! n 
government, eccuomi^aiiy 
administered. In adjusting 
the details oio re - enuo tar • 
ill", I ha» e hereiomre sai c- 
tioned snch moderate m>- 
ei iminatiijg duties as wouid 
produce the timount of rev- 
enue needed,, and at th-,- 
same time afford reasona 
1 ile prelection to our homr; 
industry.. — Letter io J. Ii. 
lichc. Jhuc 13, IS-J4. 



ionic KA'rs CoMltce. 
A friend in Cleavland writes, Antf 5!h: 

"Mr B.was a \ an Buren n an in 1840, but this fall 
• ill go for Birney and Al orris. He is not the oniy 
ne that will leave that party this election. 
Many others cano: go l'olk and La' las. The can.:.-. 
Libei ty is otiv arc; here. All wc have to do is to 
.lutli beiorc the people." — C,n. llxrijd. 



POETRY. 



For the Freemen. 
The Slave Bor. 

Mother the fields are bright and greet), 
And gay with flowers you see; 

The sun sheds jov and ligiu around, 
But all is gloom to me. 

My fetters they are fa6t and elrong, 

I am a poor slave boy, 
Toe voice of gladness never hear 

Or augnt of hope or joy. 

I never see my mother smile, 

i only trace the tear, 
Is it for me that thus you weep ? 

Speak, mother, let me hear. 

Oh shall we never see the light, 
Of freedom's dawning dav ? 

Is slavery then one endless night ? 
Oh mother, mother say. 

There is my boy, a God above, 
He marks our anguish w.ld, 

He sees our sorrows, hear* oar groans, 
And pities us, poor child. 

And to a band of nob e men, 
Strong hearted, free and brave, 

He's given n heart of pitying love, 
Tuey labor for the slave- 

And in their happv freemrn's home, 
They think of ih e and me, 

They'll break the bonds that feter us, 
Wc will, we sh i ! l be free. J. 



T-ie i>nn»>er tax in Massachusetts in IH41, was 
$20 ,00 '. La t y< ar it was re.luced :o $41,00". 
During the last four years. 31,00 'dm kardshave Iv-en 
reformed in that Staic. — Three years ;igo there were 
4o9 inmates of the poor house in Worcester, :VJas-. 
Last vear the numb-T was reduce t to eleven ! In con- 
si eration of this g «at redact ion of the. r pauper t-ix 
the towu vot' d $-'00 to he paid annually to the Wash- 
| ogion Society, together with the use ofa larye Hall, and 
j oti and fuel to w mil >ind ' ii»ht it. S-vera! other towns 



in Massachusetts h ve p: 



'ik • course;. They he- 
gin to see 'hat i' ia hotter for the public to pa\ i<ra H 
sum in order to eecu'-e peace, ha 'pi en- a iid prosperity, 
I h ai to be inert Enormously to sup ort paupers and 
i criminals; that It- is better to encourage virtue Aid in- 
1 dustry, than to paiitie< to idleness, immorality a id crime. 

Newark Tem/iercmce Adaocaie. 
Boontoniaa* will yon consider tl is? This is er-on- 
\-o\n\ worth solving. 
' reap if you faint not. 



Persevere in reform, jon Wiil 



fyf* '( is stated in the *st <n uual report of the British 
Nation il Tempera nee Society 'hat the diminution of 
• ia.t made in Qreut Brit i iu and Ireiandduriu^l • last 
six years w*e .5 percent. The deer a-,e in rum t e 
I i-i t Tee y ttr>, »»\ . 6 per oejit. — in wines 'J 2 pei 
cent. — in French B a dy, n two years, (4 do. a>.d 
Geneva, 3 percent. In I eland, wh akey has dimin- 
ished one n .lf — and S.S 0 b er shops .a^e b • . eloie 

thin a lew y nrs. 1 he number oftetutailers in Greai 
Britain is estimated at 1,000,000. The propo&jpu of 
p edg d clergy oen is about 12 in every hundred ! It 
w i>s at d at the ui< e ing :.bove alluued '0, as a'lamen 
t .ble fact, that o0 i)0n of their fello ( mor als perish ev- 
ery year. — Newark Temperance Advocate. 



"Well, wife, this is too horrible ! I cannot continue 
this buiusiness auv longer. 

Why, cleir, what's the matter now ? 

Oh. such a dream sueh a rattli g of d»a ' mpn's bo'ies, 
such an army of s<arved mort :'s, «o m mv mmderer-, 
such cries and sh>ie<Ran 1 veils, and such horrid gnash 
ing oft'eti a n t glaring of eves, an i sue - Mazing h> , 
and such devils, O ! cannot endure i 1 ! Mv hair si and- 
on end, and I am so fi'lad with horror lean scarcely 
spe-tk. O i, if ever I sell ru n again ! 

My dear, you are frightened. 

Yes. indeed, am I, another such anight will I not 
pass, for wo - 1 is. 

Mv dear, perhaps — 

Oh, don't t:ilK to m-*. 1 am determined to b*vo noth- 
ing more to do wit > ru n, in how. Do yon thfnlt, Tom 
Wilson came to me with his throat cnt fr jm e ir :o e n, 
and such a horrid g is i. and it was so h ird for him te 
speak a id so much hlood, and, sa d he, see h re Joe, 
the result o" you<' rum s-'l i ig. My blood ch I ed a' 'he 
sight, and jus' ih'ii the ho ise seemed to be 'u' ed bot- 
tom ua, th ■ earth ooened ind a I "tie imp took m ■■ h> 
the hand saying, follow me. A- I went, gr in d-vii- 
held out to n3 cups of d iid fire, saving, drink t is 
I dared not refuse. E.erv draught -et oie in a ia e, 
Serpents hissed on e;vh side, in from sb-»»e reached 
down their heads awd whis-aered, rumsei.lek. Oh, an • 
on the imp ltd me through a narrow ass, All at once 
hep aused and s;i'd. a you DRY ? Yes 1 repli d Th n 
he struck a vtKp door with bis font ::nd ''own, dov»n we 
wcni, and legions of fie"y sc p nis rushed in after us. 
whispering, rumsei.ler. ru.mss'.t.eii. A' 1 ngHi *«• 
stopiel a again, and tne imp asked hie as before, are 
ypa dry ? Yes. 1 renlied. He then 'ouch d a apring- 
a door flew open. W tat a sight. Their wer tho - 
s ir.ds, aye iiilho is of ohl worn o it r i ti- 'rink ts er n 
mo -.t piteous! v rum, ram, give me some nun ! Whi 
t'iey sa* me, they stopped a moment to see who I w is 
T ieu 'h ; imp crie font, so as to make a'l shake again, 
Rum.sem.ur! and hurling roe in, shu t e door'. Tor a 
mo iient they fix ;i f rocions ( yes unon me' and the' 
uttere 1 in a r.nited yell — damv him ! — which tilie'l \\\- 
wita such u> ror I awok-\ There, ui e, die m or no 
dreun, 1 wi I never sell another dro|> of ihe infe'in 
stuff. I will ii) longer be accessory to the misefie. 1 
that coins upon me:: in consequence of the tr.tfic i'i i: 
tox cat eg drinks. I »v<H tuA.-MtrMbitrr Wmtk : a '>'")»' 

Ilolia.i j — I'll s • a a dtans o t .• he.tthe • eoriJ, w i 
i-hij) Lion-, JfcUeph nts Slc. Those of c r stian Anicrici 
wo'thio coons ami fox?.s and poik statfn; Wh t a ditto:- 
one . m fivnr of ihos • whn «•;• ;n /.)//.••/•:• • .•>;.'.". 



Drinkiiig and bnioking. 

If wou'd be a profitable bu-iness to go through the 

United S aies and see if the men tha' now ro.is .me 
intttxicatmg drinks are not ale ost entirely the me 
tha' s . oke ; a id, if the on vice is not so , oeuec ed With 
; ie otie r t at to suppr<;ss d i k ug in !he rising een- 
■. e.t on it is a eoiut lv necess-.r. to mike a boll and 
gene a' t tlo t ; o suppr'ss smoL rng. " W- do notbel ve. 
that wiiile our"Vouug men and b" . s a.re tr uie in such 
• x ratai ant habits >t s okfiig, we can elfeotual y f's en 
npon t e uaiion the temperance refor ation. And il 
th i* is so. wiil not lemp rui e 'oen for he good of the 
cause, themselves renoun ce lh> tilthy we'^d? 

Temperance Journal. 



A drunken wa<» in >ew York was leaning against 
the wall of a chu ch, when a pa serby accost d him — 
•■[-'V, s r-iuger. oo you '.'1 ng t n tc |l«eh1"Np," 
was the rep y 'but I am leuninj that wa, !" 

Advocate 



O'w of the best acts of the hist sessiou of Cong- 
ress i law prohibiting the purchase of Wine ^ur the 
President's Cellar. 



(i^ Friends of Temperance s and to veur integrity, 
Re-ware, of he temoter, le-t in this • perilous times, >ou 
er vonr neighbor tall. 

It i< no, les^onaWV 'rue that Wine, Beer and ( ie'er 
■ re m .k ng more drunkard-', an I doing more mischief 
bv forming depriv d appelitee, an.l pernetuating the e 
vils ofdi'unktnni ss.than turn, brandy and giuaitogethi r. 



A npiioPRi ate. — The Clay e'ectorol ticket juf Kef 
■iickv* is h> aued by William «I Gtu^nf, the man wh 
murdered Cilley. — Morning Chronicle. 



APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC. 

Two respec able citizens of Massachuset'S are lying 
in Southern j , il-., loaded w.tii irons, on a charge ol aid- 
ing suffering fellow men in th -iratt mpts to csca|.e from 
cruel bondage; JONATHAN WALKER belongs to 
Hardwick, ('ape Cod. and has bet n engaged in thecoast* 
ing trade. He is a mm of unblemished character, a mem- 
ber of the Bantist Chnrch, and an hone>t and industri- 
ni9, thoug h poor man. He lias a wile a> d large famaly 
r*f children. The anneaed letter tet his story. He now 
i-o in prison at Peuacoia, waiting iiis trial, without 
funds tocmplov counsel, and his family are destit te — 
CHARLES T. TORREY is a Coii .r". gational minis- 
ter, in gr.od and ri ^u ar standing. Ht v.as successor 
otheRev. Dr. Ctteener ol'ihiscitv, in t ie pas'nr il 
charge ofa church in Sa'om, Mass. and has since been 
an auti.sUveiy and i d tor. His grandfather was the 
Hon. ('has Turner, formerly memb r of congress, and 
he marrie d n daughter of the Rev. Dr. Id -. He In s a 
wi'e r.n i three children depending on him for Support. 
He now lies in Baltimore, jail; An appaal to the public 
oas been made in Boston oil bi half of Mr. Torre\; and 
•vith the fun Is contributed council h ive been retained. 
A still larger amount is n 'tes-ary for his defence and 
he co mmittee making rbis appeal will act in concur, 
euce with the commit , e in B si n. 

Friends of Religion^ Humanity 3 Frctdom and the Con- 
stitution! 

.Shall l wo of your fellow-citizens, respectable and wor- 
thy men, who visited t e S mih on lawful business, be 
seized, at the instigation of slave-traders: be thrust into 
1 a lis me jails, b 'liable, to conviction on the tesumon / 
of nte.i«sted oi- perjured witnesses, and te exposed to j 
dr g out the.r days in stite jiristm for the sa^e oI'Liber- 
ty / In the case of Capt. VV • Iker, 'he alleged offence was 
committed, it ai all in a Territory of the United St->t- s 
rtlnre Slavery dees not constitutionally- xs : and in the 
ease of Mr.T' trvy he. is under indictment in the State 
of Maryland ai d Vitg n ia at the same time, and there- 
fore denied the pri> ile .e of bail miner t e laws of one 
•r hot of those States, contrary, as is though bv euu- 
ent Northern Lawyets to (be Constitution o: the United 
St tes. You ate earnestly appealed in for eoutrTbutioiis 
on behalf of Jonathan Walker and Charles T. Torrey, 
nid their afflicted families, ihat able counsel may be 
employed to argue the great constitutional questions in- 
volved in these cases: thflt'BOituble agents may be sent 
to Pensacola an-i Baltimore to befriend and aid our in- 
carcerated fellow oil z ns, and thai every judici usa-d 
I -wfir measure mav be taken to pr-went their '-ouv tiou, 
a t \ enty years' impri-oi ment, and the continued an- 
guish and suffering of their wives and little ones. I n view 
oi the r.alual nyhts of man, of the honor of onrcoun. 
trv, of th -Declarat oa tVf"Indepe.ildaric«, of the eonstiiu- 
tion, and of our Holy R li fion; we appeal to y>uto con- 
tribute liberally tor the i urposes earned, and "the t.'ess. 
ingsofhim that was ready to perish" will come upon > eu. 

Money can b left w ith Lewis Tap pan New Yo<k 
City, or with the following gentlemen in New Jersey. 

Thomas V Johnsen, Newark, 

John Grin es Bofttttou/j 

Wright Flint il Pa teis .n, 

Dr. Charles F. Clark, Woodbury, Gloucester Co., 

.Tab.-z L Alien, Dover Morns County, 

Abijali Wilfson Warn n County. 
The gentleman designated are requested to give a 
wide circulation to this appeal, ued editors of newspa- 
pers are solicited lo g ve it one or more insertion-:. 

Tin letter of Mr. Walker above referred to, will he 
r . .o<i i-, another co'umn. 



Rumsku.frs Beware. Mora] mn-sion for t' e 

Irunkard; and Le_ r i' suasio-ti for the drunkard maker, 
tppears lo be the order at-d d. c rine of the Teetotallers 
hiwn east." In M.is-achus.-t 1 ? the pauper manufac- 
l-trers are an-este 1 y scores in their Befa,riona bosj, eas, 
They fiiid t'ai they'c. nno' mo on scatterin.' "fire 
■ratis, ariows and death." The law appears inde'i tl 
ha' it has bi ftlie been but in 1 t'er; and says to th • 
ile trafficker in wo* and wretchedness, c- ast: your dj 
oraliziug, puupeiiziug, and ran rderiHg btis.n- s • 



§ty. Qukre? Ho v many distillates docs i' r- qnh-' 
i suj-pK a HomoepdXfuc Physician with hkohul "fo 
.c. i'-i n.il purposes?" 



NOTICE. 

A Liberty Mass Meeting Will be held in n grove 
in Boon ton, on Saturday October f>ih. At 3 o'c'o. lc, 
I'. M. Samuel 1. Dorrance Esq, and others will ad- 
dn ss the itiecting. Good music will he secured. 

Ladies and Gi nilemeu of all parties are invited to 
atn nd. Shoul 1 the weather prove unpleasant the mcit- 
ng will be held in the Fice Church. 

By order of. the Boouton Liberty Assticia ion. 

('. B. Norr a, Sect. 

: v - ■ i is is ny lust crop 1 as said uh- culprit Woom 
ram had brought to fhe gallows. 







VOL. I. 



BOONTOJV, OCTOBER 26, 1811. 



NO. G. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
JOoontan, Morris County, J\ew Jersey. 

TERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 

For the Freeman. 

Slavery, its influence on Oppressor and Oppressed. 

in the winter 1842, I left my home in Massachusetts 
to reside for a few months with & friend dial had mar- 
ried a Southerner and emigrated to South Carolina. 
I remembered my Cousin as a warm hearted affection- 
aie gin, e\er consulting the happiness of those arounti; 
and when I learned that she was Mistress of a large 
number of slaves, I feared not for their comfort and wel- 
fare, little dreaming in my ignorap.ee and simplicity, 
that slaveholding would completely change the whole 
chaiacter and deportment; for how can the law of iove 
and kindness be exemplified in a heart tliat is fully de- 
determined to oppress and destroy its fellow, or how can 
there be any regard for the feelings or convenience ot 
other*, when the sentiment, that it is "only my slave," 
governs every action, and upon its influence 1 need not 
continent. Often have I seen a poor trembling creature 
writhing under blows inflicted by the delicate hands of 
her misti ess, for some trilling act of remissness, the re- 
sult of ignora nee, until my blood boiled ut witnessing 
such acts ol :njustice, and^jdl my remonstrances could 
only elicit the one answer, "it is my slave," just as if 
an a)!-v, ise creator had framed one portion of the work 
of His Ii<md 1 to be crushed to the earth, the recipient 
of ail injustice; my friend added with a countenance ot 
the most perfect indifference, "why 1 had my cook 
whippet! most severely yesterday for delaying the din- 
ner , she said that she was sick, but I well knew it was 
only an excuse to get off from work, you cannot believe 
one word they say. I made no answer, but i thought 
as 1 contrasted the arrogant, overbearing deportment of 
my friend, with the amiability and lovliness that charac- 
terized her early years, that God had hardened her heart 
even as he did the heart of Pharaoh, in his just displeas- 
ure. 

My friend had a little son of some four years old, and 
w ith proper training he would have been a fine little 
fellow; but the §entirnent, "this is all mine," and "this 
is my slave," was early inculcated, and I need on'y say 
that the slaveholder of four years was a tolerably fair 
specimen of what he would be at forty. Master Char- 
ley's constant attendant was about two years his senior 
and his bright intelligent eye and active movements die 
not lead me to suppose that the darker coloring of his 
skin had deprived him of any of the gifts of intellect or 
reason. His mother was employed as a house servant, 
and I became much interrested in her sad pensive face, 
and the air of sorrowful dejection that pervaded her 
whole appearance. Tell me not that the slave mother 
is indifferent to her offspring; tell me not that the warm 
gushings of maternal love have subsided within her 
breast; if there is an intensity of love that cannot be 
measured, that cannot be fathomed, it is that which ex- 
ists in the heart of the poor slave. I said to her one day 
as I met her in the hall, Yorick is a fine boy, "Oh yes!" 
she exclaimed, and the eyes of the poor creature filled 
with tears, "but he may be sold to-morrow," and her 
fears were too true, for at dinner a gentleman w as intro- 
duced, a planter from Louisiana and my heart misgave 



me as I saw him wathcing the active movements of the 
boy, for I well knew the almighty dollar possessed 
sovereign influence and 1 felt assured that the feelings 
of parent and child would not be consulted where gold 
was the object. I saw the boy torn from the arms of 
his half distracted mother; I saw her raving in the anguish 
of her grief, or silent in mute despair; and alas! I could 
give her no consolation, I could only point her to that 
better land, w 7 here distinction of color is not recognized 
and where it is immaterial what con pit x;on an Indian 
or an African sun may have burned on the pilgrim. 
Oh my heart is breaking when I think of the wrongs, 
the injustice that they suffer, and I call upon the La- 
dies of the North to espouse their injured cause, upon 
your sex does this evil fail so heavily — cast aside your 
prejudices, they are unworthy of you, reflect on this 
object, judge for Yourselves, and I think the kindly 
sympathies of your natures will lead you to act nobly 
and justly. Think not that if you were placed in my 
friend's situation you would still retain your feelings of 
kindness and affection. We are but frail human beings 
and soon learn to oppress those completely within our 
power; tyranny and selfishness are plants that thrive 
well in the genial soil of slavery: it is impossible to 
meddle with fin: and not be burnt d. D. 



A SLAVE AUCTION. 



A correspondent of the Freemen's Advocate and Jour- 
nal, travelling in Louisiana, and who is no Abolitionist, 
gives the following account of an auction held at Ray- 
mond, near Vicksburg ? 

li la the practice here for the Sheriff to sell property 
on which executions have been levied, in front of the 
Court-House, on the first day oi" the session of the court, 
and the citizens of the county in great numbers gene- 
rally assemble on that day. Among the property to be 
sold on this occasion, w ere some twenty ot thirty men, 
women, and children, taken in satisfaction of execution 
by the Sheriff, and 1 saw t}it- effects of Slavery in a new 
form. A young woman was first placed upon the bench, 
in the midst of the crow d, w ell dressed, modest and neat 
in her appearance, and recommended as a good hone 
servant, and sold for $5G0 ; and another, in a conditio" 
which ought to have prevented her exposure, was pre- 
sented to th e public gaze, and sold for about the same 
sum. A man, about forty years of age, described as an 
excellent blacksmith, well skilled in His trade, was then 
sold ; and immediately after him, his wife and three lit- 
tle children were placed upon the stand, and a scene 
of most, painful interest, ensued. Finding the gentle- 
man who had become his pui chaser, he urged him with 
most anxious solicitude to buy his family ; and as the 
bids for his w ife and children were received successively 
from different persons by the Sheriff', and chances of a 
separation set met) to preponderate, his countenance in- 
dicated a heart swelling with painful emotions; and as 
he could not endure the probable fate which awaited 
him; he again spoke to his new master, recounting 'he 
valuable qualities of his wife. The bids already made 
by others were regarded excessive, and his purchaser re- 
fusing to raise upon the sum offered, the fatal w ords, 
"Three times, and gone" announced his separation from 
the object of his affection, by their becoming the prop- 
erty of another. As they came dow n from the stand, he 
advanced to his wife with a downcast look, and remark- 
ed, "Well, Sally, we are separated;" an annunciation 
which at once drew tears from her eyes. Seeing their 
feelings, the purchaser of the man — a gentleman of 
high character and whose bid was nude without a 
knowledge that he had a family — immediately announ- 
ced to the Sheriff" his wish to relinquish his purchase 
assigning as a reason his unwillingness to be the means 
of separating the man from his family, and pre.sumiug 
that the owner of the woman and children would, on a 



second sale, become his purchaser. He w as agam put 
upon the stand, but there were those present in whose 
hearts there w a.^ no sympathy for revered affections, to 
the sacrifice of the chance of a favorable purchase of a 
valuable blacksmith, and the re-sale only inflicted new 
pan^s in the bosoms oi this family, by the revival and 
disappointment of new hopes. He was again struck oil" 
us the- purchase oi another. 

A woman, with two children, one an infant in her * 
arms, were then sold ; and then two other children of 
the same mother, a little boy and a little girl, were sold 
separately, amid the ant-cling cries of the mother at the 
thought of parting w ith her children. A hale girl, 
bout thirteen years old, and nearly as white as any one 
present, was then placed upon the platform, and struck 
off to the highest bidder at £350. The sale continued 
till these human beings were &11 sold to satisfy the de- 
mands of execution creditors. Ant-Slavery Standard. 

Injustice to the North ' 

If all sense of self-preservation and self-respect has 
not perished within the breast of northern freemen, the 
following facts w ill arouse them to a sense of the menial 
position to w hich they are reduced in the relations of 
our government. Such sectional favoritism is glaringly 
infamous. Shame upon thesppw of the Puritans if they 
submit tp it without effort. No matter to w hich party 
you belong, citizens, cast your votes no more &r sou In- 
ert slaveholders. We merely mention a few facts, 
which are true of the present slate of things hi the Gov- 
ernment; saying nothing about the last two years. 
The register of the Navy shows that among the officers 
there are from Maine 33, New Hampshire 30. Massa- 
chusetts 76, Rhode Island 23, Connecticut 35, Ver- 
mont eighteen, New-York I 1 "' 1 .', Nt-w Jersey t •,*, 
Pennsylvania 1<>4, Delaware 19, Maryland 118, 
Virginia 221, North Carolina 41 , South Carolina 1<>, 
Georgia 29, Kentucky 21, Tennessee 10, Ohio 23, 
Louisiana 15, Indiana 13, Mississippi 3, Illinois 2, Al- 
abama and Missouri 3, Michigan 55, Maryland haslISj 
or 1 in 10 37, while she is entitled to 1 in 33. 

Virginia has 1 to 5-70 while she is entitled to 1 in 
14, 13-ldths, Maryland with 8 Representatives kw 
118 officers. Maine w ith 8 Representatives has but 
33 office-is. Massachusetts with 12 Representatives 
has 24 midshipmen. The District of Columbia has so 
Representative-s but 25 Midshipmen. 

Maryland with eight votes in congress, counting ne- 
groes and alt, has 40 appointments, while New-York & 
Ohio with near 4,000, U00, and 49 votes have only K>, 

Massachusetts furnishes 4000 seamen, and Las 77 of- 
ficers, in all the Navy. 

Virgnia furnishes 85 seamen and has 227 officers. 

Now how does this inequality occur ? certainly not 
by accident. Why does the northern Congressmen sub- 
mit to this unequal and oppressive managt men!? The 
answer is obvious — it is the base servility of northern 
demagogues and dough faces, to southern bravadoes, 

The northern laborers have so long been accustomed 
to remain silent unc^er the* things, or to join in with 
one or the other of the parties to "keep it out of poli- 
tics" that it is a kind of second nature to them to fed 
submissive under the most fragrant insult and injustice. 

And if the south demands, as she has just done again, 
that the Presidents should both be southern slaveholders, 
w hy it must be dont — and the liee voters of the h 
seem to he zealous to put the first wreath upon the 
brow of oppression. 

The Liberty Parly, seeing these things, is trying U 
awake the people to a sense pf their condition. Ir'th< \ 
succeed our count) y is safe. Jf they fail all is lost, 
It is for the interests of all, that the Liberty Partv 
succeed. Syracuse Democratic i'reeman. 



\ 

\ 



i 



THE NEW -TTIXSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTu.v OCTOTJW 5R TW4t 



L-t us throw oti'ihe lawk^Wi c B on-.- «i. bese, 
and the world will see through it. It will not do thus to 
talk like philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants: 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our tex 
and actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. Pinckney, of Mnryland. 



In all things that have beauty, there is wooing to man 
more comely than LIBERTY MiUin, 



LIBERTY TICKET. 

For President, 

JAMES G. ijlUXEY, 

' OF MICHIGAN. 
For Vice President, 

THOMAS MORRIS. 

OF OHIO. 
For Electors., 
DARIUS WELLS, 
JAMES HOWE. 
THOMAS V. JOHNSON, 
ALEXANDER H. FREMAN 
STEPHEN GRIMES. 
ALEXANDER BLACK, 
SAMUEL HALL. ^ 



nrefference for Mr. Folk urn d for the Loco-Foco poliq 
generally.'" . . 

On the ocasion referred to, I gave no opinion on the 
general policy of the DesnocmttQ party; nor did I speab 
of any preference that I had, as between Mr. Clay anc 
Mr. Polk; but I spoke of tbcm both, as I always 
have, as utterly objectionable. I expressed the opinion 
that 1 now repeat— that I bad but little fear of it. 
should Mr Polk be elected; but a good deal should Mr. 
Ciay be elected. I placed my fears on ihe ground, tha 
Mr! Clay, as well as Mr. Polk, had expressed himself 
[favorably to annexation, and that he could and would 
lead his partv, whilst Mr. Polk was incompetent to lead 
his: 1 considered Mr. Clay as the adroitest, as well as 
boldest, party tactician we have; whilst Mr. Polk had 
snow n no extraordinary skill and had comparatively lit- 
tle experience in party management. 

If I ave heen nominated for the Legislature of M-chi- 
qan by the Democrats of the County in which I reside, it 
has been since 1 left home. My relation to the Liberty 
party and my uncompromising opposition to both the 
other parties -is as well understood there as elsewhere. 
If. then., I have been nominated by any portion of my 
countrymen, it has been neither as a Democrat nor as a 
j Wnio-." But as I have received no official or authorita- 
tive notification of such nomination, it would be prema- 
I ture in me now to take any farther notice of it. 

Respectfully, &c. James G. Birney. 



i 



THii DESPERATION OF THE Wiiiuo. 
Every day brings fresh .evidenceof the reckless despe- 
ration of the whigs, and their tutler disregard of truth in 
laboring for the election of Henry Clay— their mean 
Hostility to the abolitionists while professing to be in fa- 
vor of hVaty. is without a parallel. They take every 
possible ranm? to coinpl US to CCeme to their relief and 
-bring our whole party with us, and abuse us because we 
do not do so; knowing at the <amc. time that our party 
is composed of men from both the other parties, that a 
.large minority, to say the least, of liberty men, are from 
jimong the democrats, and should we dissolve, they 
would either not vote at all or return to their old party. 

The whig editors know that all over the "country, demh 
ocrats even by the hundred are constantly deserting their 
party, to go for Birney and Liberty, and these editor* 
are publishiug these facts -with great exultation, and 
still go on abusing us because they say we are injuring 

the prospects of the slaveholder and duelist, Clay — and 
descend to the mean est measures and basest falsehoods 

to carry their points and get the abolitionists to go for 
.their party. 

We once thought the Editor of the Tribune above 
such meanness, but we have given him up as destitute 
of common honesty in these matters. If he, and the 
whig editors generally have any governing principles, 
they must be, "that all i fair in politics," and "the end 
■justifies the means." We believe that every cause is 
bad and should cerae touought, that cannot be sustained 
by honest means. 

One of the most wilful and wicked misrepresentations 
now going the rounds of the whig papers, Mr. 
Greely m the front rank, is, that there has been a coali- 
tion between Mr. Barney and the Loco foeos of Mi obi - 
wan; that Birney has heen nominated by an' 1 with hi:- 
own consent, to do their work in the Legislature, and 
give his inflttmce for Polk, with the understanding that 
he if to have a share nf tee spoils. 

Mr. Greely has thrown his charge in an ungenerous 
manner before, the Co intry, aceompaei d wirft so'rriu< 
that is utterly false and abusive, that Mr. Birney. who 
is now on a tour in New England has writt n tlv follow 
ing letter, which we think is enough to silence any hon- 
est uian on that subject. 



Letter atom James G. Birney. 

j\Y.w.Y<or«,Oct. H, 184* 
To the'Kd'Uv of Th« Tribune: 

Your paper at this morning con'ohs a s'n'-m . 
which i wish ie con-eel. 1 is, that, on my pa'ssa; 
from Uelroit to Jmi«ub, J" did not h'.shuie to aeow i- 



As to Birney's nomination for the Legislature of 
; Michigan by the Loco-Focos of his country, we ask ev - 
ery reader to mark well his evasive language, and judge 
i whether we are not justified in our conviction that there 
I is -a - ell understood coalition between the Loco-Focos 
and Third Parly Abolitionists to defeat Mr. Clay and di- 
vide the spoils between them. Does any man believe 
that the J.oco-Focos of Saginaw have nominated James 
G. Birney to represent them without au understanding 
and a clear stipulation of reciprocal service? We cannot. 

[Ed. Tribune. 
Mr. Greely knows that the charge he makes is false 
and his conclusions unfair. 

There is nothing in Mr. Birney's letter that is evasive, 
on the contrary it is a clear and unequivocal denial of 
what Mr. Greely says — it has hohosty stamped on the 
face of it, such as is not to be found in any of the letters 
of Mr. Clay, and we are clear in the belief that Mr. 
Greely does not himself believe the ebarge of coalition on 
the part of Mr. Birney with the loco locos for any put- 
pose whatever; yet he fills his paper with this sort of 
slang to help into office a man that cannot, be got in by 
honest means. 

The whig papers generally are. fallowing in the same 
train giving clear proof that they tremble for their 
Slave holding & Duelling Candidate. 

The Newark Sentinal contains numerous falsehoods 
about coalition of Birney and the abolitionists with loco 
foeos.. and we believe the editor of that paper knows 
they are false: but it is in perfect keeping with the spir- 
it of the whig press generally in relation to this matter. 

We will give another letter of Mr. Birney which we 
♦rust will set the matter right in every honest man's 
mind. 

Another Letter from James G. Birney. 

Hamden, Conn. Oct. 10, 1844 
To the editor of the Tribune: 

I have just now seen in the Tribune of to-day an ar. 
tide headed "Coalition of Janes G. Birney with the 
Polk party." The charge of coalition rests on the fact, 
that 1 have been nominated for the Legislature of Mich- 
igan by a Democratic convention, and that I assented to 
its being done. 
The following is all, of substance, that is necessary \t 
•xphtin the transaction: 

During my absence from home, last year, in New 
England, it was proposed in the Whig Convention o 
rhe county in Which I resid e to nominal m ■ for tb 
i »isfetuVe The nomination, however, was not mad 
on the ground, fte I wa.. infornaod, that 1 mi-jrht nqf 1 
rising, to si rve it" elected, and that the county; in thai 
•vent, would he out to th- 1 ;o b1 : md expends of boh' 
: n . r anofh-r el< "turn. B -'mg asked, on my return 

whether 1 wou'd have s~rv >d Imd I been elected, I r 
alifd that I would; that as e V ->ry vot-r in the coup 
knew that I was an abolitionist — a to \mbey o!' th ■> L 
■rty party, and opposed to both the other |>arties — f< 
' h'adus-vl evry prop r o -a-ion, publicly and private IV 
0 expose th"ir sn&ithful'n J ss— J would r egard my tfli c 
tion as coming from the people, irrespective <S party. 
Last spring and summer complaints of mismana ; -m 
m the part of the county authorities were made by b. 



p-ople of the county. 1 thought the complaints were 
I list. The persons most implicated Were 01 bom .he 
Whig and Democratic parties. A public meeting was 
neld to take into consideration the charges. 1 presented 
die facts of the case to the meeting; and supported a set 
01 resolves enibodying ihe sentiment* of die meeting m 
relation to them. The course i took met with the appro- 
bation of those who were present and of those who were 
lloL — excepting, very likely, the parties implicated and 
their near iriends. 

The same evening I reviewed before a large assembly, 
(unbracing nearly all wiio had been in the county meet- 
ing just men; ioned, the course of the Democratic and 
Whig parties, as connected with ihe cause of human 
liberty — with the just claims of the JNorth, and the in- 
tegrity of the Constitution- This review, could of course 
be nothing else than severe; yet no one, save it might oe 
the party lBunagers, found lault with it; and this, because 
the facts were true- - the treatment candid and impartial. 

It was after this that the wish was expressed o_, p -r- 
sons of both parties that 1 should represent the t oui.-y 
in the Legislature, i was applied to, to say that I 
would serve if elected. My uniform answer — from 
whatever quarter the application came — was, thai if 
the. people of the County, with the full knowledg which 
they possessed of my opinions, w ished me to serve them 
1 would do it. 1 told them moreover, that 1 should re- 
gard my election as proof that the people intended to 
put an end to the pernicious party contests, by which 
their own peace and the interests of the county had 
been so long marred. 

Although 1 have been nominated by my Democratic 
neighbors, no one in the county would have spoken of 
me°as of that party had not the cue been given by the 
wire-workers of the Whig party — especially by the 
originator of the coalition story, the Deunit Adveitiser, 
a print that has spared neither fact nor fiction to win 
over the Liberty party m Michigan to die support of the ■ 
Whigs, by weakening their confidence in me. A spcc-l 
imen of its recklessness may be seen in the statement *ia-j 
nsferred to the Tribune — that if my conference v tk' 
General Hascal at Flint were divulged, it would doubt- 
less disclose, that my mission to the Fast was undertaken 
at die instance of the Loco Focos, as well as leading Ab- 
olitionists of New York, though cloaked under the pre- 
tence of a visit to my so?) residing in Com I nei- 
Ihere saw general Haskell when 1 was at Flint, nor have. 
1 ever exchanged with him a dozen words on any mat- 
ter of parly politics. This is all fiction. Whatever I 
have done lias been done openly: and I absolve from 
every obligation of secrecy all persons u ith whom I 
have conversed on matters pertaining to public men or 
party measures. 

Part of die article in The Tribune is a letter signt d 
by A. P. Davis of Flint, in Michigan. — He professes to 
have, discovered the clue to my "inveterate hostility" 
to Mr. Clay, in the aforesaid nomination, and in the fact 
of my first marriage having been into the Marshall fam- 
ily. — Now it turns out that my first marriage was not 
into the Marshall family, ami that that family, in Ken 
tucky, are, with two exceptions, so far a^ I have heard! 
favourable to the election of Mr. Clay— The cha:g of 
inveterate hostility to Mr. Clav — if it me an any] 
thing more than political opposition — is wholly imagittj 
ary. I have no reasons for opposing Mr. Clay on perJ 
sonal grounds. On the contrary the interroursa we 
have had has been of the most friendly character. ! 
oppose his election, because he disbeli-ves the great po- 
litical truths of the Declaration of Ind- p -nclence, the 
foundation of all just Goverment, and beeawe he repu-< 
bates the paramount objects of the Union, die perpefl 
nation of liberty to all. On the same ground I opp~* 
die election of Mr. Polk. But I more deprecate the 
ection of Mr Clay — because, possessing abilities sup-ri 
or to Mr. Polk's, he would proportionally weaken th« 
inflnence of those truths on the minds of our coutt 
trymeti! 

Respectfully, Sfe. 

JAMES G. BIRNEY. 
P. S. The only direct infomatinn I have had 

voting this nomination has heen conveyed to me 
nember of the Whig party residing at Sac r aw in 
*r hist, received. His language, shews at mj 1 
a ion to the Legislature is not owing tu ffc) 
meut. He says, "I think you may make ujj • 
, spend this winter in Detroit, for the 
; sh of a good number of both parties " 



ni 



Al houest enquiiers after truth wiW read 1 
-.-iter, and hoot down the stories about cna ition 
•.iv not mistaken, the. whigs wdl ose many vot* 
ieh* shameful conduct in this ma.ier. 



"Virs. Cilley, whose husband v •• 

raves at the instigation ot Henrj 
Maine 



»HM4l I . Jtgjrtaaga 



The Maryland Election. 
The "taction in Marj Laid has terminated in favor or 
ihe Whigs by a popular majority of 600; and in the Le 
_gislature a Whig .majority oF 46. Now as all -i 
papers in the North tell us that (he Whig party is ihr 
true Liberty party, may we not expect I hat Slater's 
slave-jail will he demolished, and the doors dfTorrey's 
-dungeon thrown open? Middlesex Standard 



"He who enslaves the blw-k to-day. will enslave the 
Irishman to-morrow- , the Dutchman, next day, and thi 
Anglo American the day after." — C. M. Glay. 

What a character for Cass i us to give of his distin- 
guished namesake at Ashland! Yet he would have 
Liberty men vote for such a man. Signal of Liberty. 

James K. Polk — The story published in our last of 
J. H. folk's 43 branded slaves, tnrns out to be a forge- 
ry. We copied -it from a whig paper, and we believe 
the story originated in Western New York. 

The whigs say it was manufactured by a democrat, 
and the democrats say it was *lone by a whig; how i 
was we shall not stop to enquire, but as the story prows 
•a forgery, we make the correction as we shall always 
i do in like cases. 

Inasmuch as branding slaves with a hot iron, with the 
initials of the owners names, is a frequent practice a1 the 
South, we did not think it strange that J. K. Polk should 
treat his in the same. manner. Mr. Polk, however, is 
still a slaveholder, a trallicker in human flesh, a buyer 
and seller of men, women and children, a -mvierer of 
all family ties — one who compels the poor to vvbrk and 
aoil their lives through under (he lash without page's! 

Dt-mocrats, can you vote for such a man'' 



USES OK OUR t\ A VY. 
1st. To afford berths to gentlemen's suns in the 
South. 

2d. To take care of "domestic institutions." 
3d. To give chase to runaways from our Southern 
roast. 

4th. To prevent Greai Britain from acting too effi- 
ciently for the suppression of the African slave-trade. 

5th. To subserve the scheme oif the American Col- 
onization Society, and furnish reports in its favor. 

oth. To supply writers in favor of Slavery, — Am. 
Freeman. 



Hon. William Jay, in a letter kithe Cincinnati Her- 
ald says: 

"Under existing circumstances, I regard the Liberty 
party as the most effectual weapon we cah wield againsl 
slavery. I have no confidence in Mr. Clay, and Mi 
Webster, in the affair of the Creole, acted as the humble 
tool of the slaveholders. He and Mr. Clay a ill both bo 
in favour of admitting Texas the moment the;' fmti s irh 
a measure aahantaneous to their par'i/. As to the Dem- 
ocratic party, they are full of putrefying sore*, from he 
crown of the head to the soles of the feet. A present^ 
our only hope under God, is in the Liberty party." 

This is the language of a man against whom calum- 
ny has never spoken — & man of acknowledged -* enl 
and exalted mjral character — the worthy son of an il- 
lustrious American patriot. Let eveiy Liberty mar re- 
member it. "UNDER GOD, OUR ONLY HOPE 

IS T' v THF TIRERTY PARTY." 

New Jersey 

The Whig majority hi New Jersey is ! S> '• - * 
get no official returns of the Liberty vote - ea 

as we can make it out from the best da a, 
115 in th' j State; though tl is falls far shof •• oui 
•strength as no organizations existed in an-. ■. 
ties ftxeept 4 or 5. About one third of the voters n 
.Boon : on went for Liberty. 



Wh»gs ! if any <of your near and dear frieud, \ er< toi 
ing in hopeles bondage, on the plantation at /. 
with out pay, would you vote for Clay? 

Democrats ! if your father, mother, bro.t! , 
son or daughter were laboring thST> ''*>' '• " 

aLama under the lash of . . . 
you vote for Polk' 



I LIBERTY COVENTION OF OHIO COUNTY, 
VIRGIN L4* 

Pursuant to adjournment, a Convention was held in 
the hauie-i* j.. Gibnore, Esq.. 

The mfteting was organized by calling Hugh Brown- 
lee to the chair, and Thomas Todd, Secretary. 

After several addresses, the following preamble and 
resolutions were unwnrraosiy adopted. 

Whereas', 'God, the Supreme Lord and King of all the 
world, hath -ordained civH Magistrates to be under Him, 
over the people, .for his own glory and the public good: 
And hath saM, "He that ruielh with men must be just, 
rrjing ,n the f a;- of God — men of Truth, hating covet- 
eousuess." And whereas; slaveholding is clearly con- 
demned in the Bjhle, "wo uiko him that Luiideth his 
house by unrighteousness, .and his gjjiambers by wrong; 
that useth his neighbors service without Mages and 
givefh him not toi- his work." And whereas the two 
great political parties have select* -d candidates for the 
highest office in the gift of the people, men who advo- 
cate slavery, and are practical slaveholders, and also 
guilty of olher gioss immoralities, snowing their subser- 
viency to slavery and disregard ot morality, therefore, 

Resolved, Thai in organizing a Liberty Party in the 
State of Virginia, we do it from a sense ot dirty to God, 
and are determined to support no man or party in the 
management of political affairs, farther than measures 
and men in off.ee are governed by the Bible, which we 
take as oUr supreme law, to which all other laws must 
conform. 

ResoSaeid, That we can no longer give our votes to 
elevate, slaveholders t 0 office, nor assist either of the 
great political parties, soiongas they sustain slavery, 

R.,'.*o!oed, That in our opinion, the removal of its in- 
fluence in our general government, would remove the 
gi >ai di&cu&y, which besets its legislation, and conse- 
quently fender -more stable thdf policy of .said govern- 
ment. ' 

Resrdved. That our experience fully confirms us in 
r) p assertion that the use ot the ballot for the slave's 
redemption, in • disi inci organization, is demanded of 
us as iivte republicans, as christians, patriots and phi- 

• umhropiKts. . Mgd^ 

P.esoln.'f, Th.at the principles we profess, are the 
prfhdipTes offtie Dechs ■* ion ot independence, and if car 
rt c oh a- 1 ording to th% indentions bfthe fathers of our 
coimtryy&ur . hole land will soon be free from one of 
the foulest stains that ever dhgvac d any nation. 

Resolved, Thai if slavery had been abolished accor- 
ding, to the fond anticipation of the Father of our Coun- 
ta^c^t.heloyed Siafe would yet ibe in the enjoyment 
oi tha.: emim pi position sh* occupied in his day. "But 
alas l ow are the mighty fallen." She now stands 
fourth in 'he. hst of S'atcs; and well may the finger of 
scorn aiih contempt be pointed at us as sons of the sign- 
ers oi 'he L-ecin'a'ion of Independence, for our recrean- 
cy in the cause of human rights/' 

Resolved That we cali upon our fellow citizens to 
examine, ow principles, and come forward and aid us 
in raising the standard of liberty and morality, >• hich 
we believe to be the tru* prii ciples of democracy, and 
the only w ans of bringing back and saving our country 
from the withering grasp of slaveholders. 

Rt&heti, That J Gihnore, J. Emery and S. M. Bell 
be a committee to ^prepare an add; teas', together with a 
ticket, and have published with the proceedings of this 
m'-eting, in pamphlet form. 

L That we respectfully solicit all editors 
ause to publish the proceedings of this 

ioyon. Resolved, That we adjourn. 

electors. 

1 Joseph 'Bryant, 8. William "Wallace, 

2. Thomas Freeman, 9. John Wiis >n, 

0. .'« .;s • .-km* all, 10. Samuel Thompson, 

•«. Bsnethc Btashear, 1 1 . Thomas Workman, 

5 David Clyife, 12. Hugh Brownlee, 

! h P ifcison, 13. William Wright, 



15 Johja DIXON, 16 JAMES CLEMENS, 
17 THOMAS WOODS. 

The above has been published in many of the Lib- 
<~rly papeis; we copy from the Liberty Herajd, a large 
well conducted paper published at Warren, Ohio, be 
L. L Rice. The names of the Electors are all given 
to show that they are not afraid to have their abolition- 
ism known in a slave Slate. An article in anothef place 
will show that Freemen are fearlessly moving in 
heart of the State of Delaware, in favor of ballot-bos 
abolitionism. Truly a man must be worse than mad fee 
doubt the speedy triumph of Liberty Party Principles t 

We expect Delaware and Virginia with us before 
long, if freemen stand firm. 



Fact.s fok Thinkejis — Supreme Coup.t ot 

THE U. S, 

The free population of the United States excluding 
the Territories and the uistricl of Columbia, according 
to Uie cecaus of 1^40, was I4,434,ly0 persons. Of 
these the non-siavehoitiiiig States contained 9,ti53 ; Gt ; 3; 
the slaveholding 4,?60,^9 . lhatistosay, the free 
States contained just twice as many free in habitants 
as the .slave fataics, and b2,bUti persons over. 

Now it is a very important thing to the slaveholders, 
to secure judicial decisions of the highest authority fa- 
vorable to slavery. To effect this, it is thought neccs* 
sary to have a majority of the Judges of the Supreme 
Court of the United States, from the slave States — 
And accordingly Congress has so divided the Circuits as 
to give io the slave Stales, having not one third cf th^ 
iree population, five Judges, and to the free States, hav- 
ing more than two-thirds only four. The Circuits, al- 
so, are so arranged that no slave State is iw luded in the 
Circuit of a Judge residing in a free State, nor atiy free. 
State in the circuit of a Judge residing in a slave' State 
Th" following table exhibits the enormous inequal- 
ities of live population in the several Circuit." 

Free States 

Circuits. States composing iL fudges, population 
1st Me. N. H. Mass. R- I. Jos. Story 1,632,850 
2d Vermont, Conn. N. York, Vacant, 3,030,826 
3d N. Jersey & Pennsylvania, Vacant, 2,G9*3,C01 
7th Ohio, la, 111, it Mich. J. McLean, 2,803,446 



Slave States 



Jacob Muss, 



14 George Whitham, 



4,'h 
5th 
6th 



Del Maryland, Va R.B.Taney, 1,246,074 
Alab. and Louisina, McKinley, 604.082 
N. Car. S. Car. Ga. J. M. Wayne 1,185,410 
8th Ky. Tenn. & Missouri, John Cntron; 1,569, 183 
9th Missippi & Arkau. P. V. Daniel, 258,07P 



The largest population of a slave State Circuit, is 
only a fraction over one -half the largest population of n 
free Stat- j Circuit, and less by sixty thousand than 
the smallest, while the smallest population of a free 
Sta e Circuit is more ihan six times the smallest pop- 
ula'ioa of a slave State Circuit. The 7th Circuit, ot 
which Ohio is part, contains more than Eleven mot 
as many free inhabitants as the 9th of which Missippi 
forms part. 

Do the people see any degradation of the Free fitatty 
in this ? — Philwhropht. 



Anti-Slavery Meeting in a Slave Slate. 

— An Anti-Slavery Meeting has recently been heJd m 
Wilmington, Delaw are. The subject of slavery was 
discussed i-n all its tonus; the wrong of voting for slave 
holders however, and the effect of slavery upon the pros 
perity of the State were prominently before the meeting 
At the close, the following resolutions were passed, 
with only one or two dissenting voices: 

R-esolved, Th.at Slavery ought to be abolished ir 
Delaware at the next session of the Legislature. 

Resolved, 'I hat we will vote for no candidal fox .of- 
fitje, unless he is in favor of such abolition. 
Bangor Gazette. 



The Liberty vote in Pennsylvania is set down b" 
the papers at 7,000. Ohio at 10,000 to 12,000 



P OET11Y. 



THE TEMPERANCE LIFE BOAT. 

Ply the oar, brother, ami speed ie boat, 
Sw.ft over life's j^iitle; ing waves we float, 
Then onward b >uud. an i strive to sa e 
Brothers from filling a drunkard s grase, 
CHORUS. 

Then pull away, haul away, row bovs row, 
A long pull, a strong puU and oft we g >, 
Off we go, ott" we go, off we go, off we go- 
Loudly the heart-cheering tetriperahae ca'1, 
Bounds oyer tie nation>to wcPome us all, 
It sweetly swells fro;n hill and grove, 
Calling return unto all t'mi rove. 
T ie "i p ill aw ty etc. 

.Now o'er the ocean our good bark ri dee, 
And safely in harbor >he smo t : 1 glides, 
But should the cry of help he heard, 
Quickly to duty is our Watchword. 

Tlien pull away etc. Emancipator. 



From the True Wwsleyan. 

A NEW CATECHISM 

truest. What is the ch;ef en I of m n ? 

Aim. To gather up rides ; to c eat .ill he can; 

To flutter the rich ; the poor to despise ; 

To pamper the fool ; to humble the wise ; 

T..e rich to assist ; to do aU in his power 

To k'ck the unfortunate still a peg lower: 

To cry up for freedom, to rielend it with vigor, 

iHave slaves without number,- aud use 'hem with rigor; 

To deal fair wi.h all men when rches attend them; 

To grind down ihe poor when heie's none, to defend 
them; 

To he angol w itho'it, and devil within, 

To pretend to all virtue, and pr etice all sin; 

This is most men's chief end, or tin ir actions be'if 
the in — 

And if you don't believe it, you can just go and tiy 
them. 



Tne Rev. Win, L. P-irsons, of th F>ee < huch, 
in Boouton, has ac.rp'ed a call from the C'U'xh in 
Aurora, Illinois. Mr. Parsons was very relucta .tL v 
given up bv his friends in Boonton; b it he goes into 
a wider field of usefiln"««s with the r best wishes, and 
is cordially recommended to tiie people of Aurora , as 
a faithful, fearless, and zealous advocate of 'he truth, 
We do not doubt h it tiat ae will make himself emi- 
nently useful wherever he go s. 

The Rev. Henry Belden taiies his place in the Boon- 
ton Free Church. 



ORDINATION. 

T^e Rev. Heiirv jiehien will he O'daii'd by an 
ordaining Co mcil, and l ist lied Pastor of 'he I re 
Chureli in BOONTON, on Wednesday, O- tuber 30th., 
at 7 o'cloek P. M., at the FREE CHURCH. 

A number^of Ministers from a distance w.ll be in 
attendance. 

The Public are invited lo attend. 
October, 26, IS? 4. 



Mr. Editor, — I have h ard from au»hority t at 1 
cannot doubt, that i Presbytereaa Clerg. man ttiia eai 
voted the Liberty Ticket in New Jers y wh ■ in vjor- 
ris Cunt] last \ear, w.>s a violent "pposcr of Abolition 
a -d a stro g advicate for a slaveholder and du list for 
the hig il st office in the Nation. 

The Clergy are aceouirta >le for the continuance el' 
Slavery, and when they act riyld, slavery will b> 
abolished. IV ash- n<) ton. 



H O N G, 

■Vlfp** J»i- j% .i- , '.fl^^l T W\ 

BY A FREEMAN. 
Ah— Yank- e Girl b, G. W Clark. 
A b'ast from the bugl ' was heard from afar, 
it sumn oued the nation to conquest a id war; 
On the breeze 't wa borne from tne north far away, 
Aud a shout shook t; e skies for *our own Hemy Ciay. 

A slave heard the hlast, as ht toiled in despair, 
A id breathed out his wees to the cold, dewy air; 
He sig 1 ed jo his cha ns at the Bugle's shrill lay, 
As it played loud a^ d long for "our own Henry Clay. 

With a start he < xcl. imed that .shout is for him, 
Who b, ds crushing tetters on spirit and limb; 
Who i a>es ...e t weep for that freedom which all 
Vla\ claim as rig t, but the ne^io in thrall. 

My wile h»s 'een si Id; m\ sons a eno more; 
'I . e . bbtd 'ueath he las • on the f; r southern shore; 
T the lust of >he man thie', niv daughter's a prey; 
The orice of their bio d feeds 'our ow n Henry Clay.' 

O could ye but wear once the feiters I leel, 
Piercing body and spirit more cruel thau .-teel; 
Th u champion oi freedom' no more would ve say 
In the iong, iourt hmra for'ourown Henry Clay.' 

Shout on lor our Ch ef, although prostrate I lie; 
With his heel on my neck' am! the scourge in my eye 
Iluslrd husb'd be my - ghs, tor they sing in the lay! 
How fat and how sfcek are the slaves 'our Clay.' 

•A 1 !a<t Iromt e b :gle,' woke the dead from their sleep. 
And Randolph came torth irom the grave's siknt deep; 
With a ten i hie g i he shotted aloud 
As he gathe ed around him his icy-cold shroud. 

So soon, ah! so soon for 'he ' eing « bese hand, 
W uid h ive eut my sou! headlong t > hel "s gloomy land, 
Wi!i ye say to ;he hugle; -a louder b) st play,' 
To the ho.Lor and truth of our own Henry Clay?' 

Nexl CMlev came forth from the grave's gloomy bed, 
A 1 fres'i were his wounds and most frightfully red; 
He IHd in his h nd- to the li^ht of t lie day. 
The challenge dr:wn up by -our own Henry Clay.' 

H'- cried wi'h a voice mo.e loud, than the rear 
Of the or e n's proud waves, rolling mad to tho shore; 
My hleod nt the door of your Hco i lay; 
For the el a!f Dge was > earned by 'our own Henry Clay. 

Lo k, look nt m]f wife her hra.n is on fire; 
My orphans distracted, still calls for their sire; 
My home is all dprkne.ss; and sorrow their lay; 
For their hearts have been crushed bv our own Henry 
Clay. 

Shout on then, ye, 'christians' ve 'pri-sti' join the song 
Let the 'blast of the Husrl' .' its echo prolong; 
W kethe N rth. South. West and East in your lay; 
^ho'it lo id for that worthy, the DtieHixt Clay. 

fir is wor'bv to file o'^r a Nation of Saints; 
A 'id woe to tho wr"t<*h, who in Henry's cause faints; 
*T" is rnn-ifin"' in triumph : haH. hail, to <he da\ ; 
Huzza for the gambler, our oood Henry Clay, 

' ■o, ?n to th>» nltT. ve pvi st-i of the Lord, 
•\ d si' to 'he peonle. sob it to his word; 
For the fust and the riohfeovs, we fervently pray, 
Th<m go to the polls and vote '■for our Clay.' 

Sh"ti'd conscience revolt nt the thought of *in, 
\nr] doubts rni^e the hil'ow s of trouble within; 
If * on d ead tho d ; i k doom o r 'he "rent burning day, 
A"d shrink from the sin of electing Henry Clay; 

W : th Clav. Freelinghiusen, the best of mankimd; 
Wake n pill o' them both, <xnet to \our mind; 
Th n shout to a'l Christians) w* ve found out a way 
To make you all swidlow the < nod Henry Clay. 



Vermont. — The Lib. it voto of Veinioii la-.t year w-.s 
3,56l. This >cur us efficially leported; i. is 5,<jl&-a 
glorious gaia. 



APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC. 

Two rcspeciable c.t:zens of Massachuset s are lying 
in South 'in j ;ils, ioaded w.th irons, on a choree ot aid- 
ing suffering fellow men in theiratt mpts to escape from' 
cruel bondage. JONATHAN WALKER belongs to 
Hardwick, Cape Cod, and h is been engaged in ih. coast- 
log trade, He is a man of unblemished character, a inem- 
uer of the Baptist Church, and an honest and industri- 
ous, though poor man. He has a wife and large famaly 
oi ehitdreu. Tne annexed let.er te;ie ins story. He now 
lies in prison at Pen.-aco'a, waiting his trial, wit .out 
funds I o employ counsel, and his family arc destitute — 
CHARLES T TORREY is a Con-rt gationai mons- 
ter, in g< od and rt^u ai stai ding. He was successor 

0 tne Rev. Dr. Cheever, of this city, intiiepaso.nl 
charge of a church in Sa.ein, >iass. and has since beeu 
an ami sla\e:y anu tditor. His grandfather was the 
Hon. Chas Turner, formerly memb. r of congress, and 
he married a daughter of the Rev. Lr. ide. He h s a 
wile .ino ihree children depending on him lor auj poit. 
He now iies in Baltimore jail. An appaal to toe public 

1 as been made in Bosiouon b< halt of Mr. Torre); and 
with the funds contributed council have been retained. 
A still larger amount is necessary lor his deh nee, and 
the co.omitt e making i his appeal will act in concur- 
ence with the Committee in B ston. 

Friends of lleliyioit, Humanity, Freedom andthe Con- 
stitution! 

Shall i wo of your t'ellow -c tizens, respectable and wor- 
thy men, who visited t e i>< ..ih on lawful I business, he 
seized, at the instigation of slave-traders: be ihr .st ii«.o 
I aihs me jails, b^ liable to cynyictioii o.i the les.monv 
of interested oi perj re I wi nesses, and oe expose to 
dr.ig out the r days in state prison for the sake of Liber- 
ty? In tiie case of Capt. Walker, the alleged oftence was 
committed, if a. all in a 7'crrUory of 'he United States 
where Slavery does not constitutionally ■ x si: and in th 
ease of Mr.Ti re y. hr. is under indictment in the State 
of Maryland aud Virg nia at tho s \me time, and there- 
tore der ied the iiri'il«>_e of bail under tee laws of one 
or bot of those States, contrary, as is thought by e - 
nent Northern Lawyeis x, the Constitution o the United 
St tes. Y> u aie eareestly npieahd to tor eoutributio s 
on behalf of Jonathan Walker and Charles T. Toi rey, 
and their alllictet families, that hie counsel mav be 
employed to argue the ureat constitutional questions in- 
volved in 'bese cases: thatsu table ngents may be se 
io Pensacola ano Baltimore to befriend aud aid • ur . 
ca'reerated fellow ci' zens, and that v\e<y judici us d 
U wfu 1 measure roai be taken to prevent their eonv rtion, 
a twenty years' imprisoi ment, and the eontinued an 
guishandsuff ring of their wives and little on^k I n view 
o ; tiie natuial rights of man, of the honor of our coup 
try, ot i hi Declaration of Indcpeudance, of the constitu- 
tion, and of our Holy R li. in; we appeal toy Utoci n 
tribute liberal!* tor the ui poses named, and ''the blesa« 
ingsof him that was ready to perish'' will corerujion >«u 
Money can be left with Lewis Papuan New Ymk 
City, or with the follow ing gentlemi n in New Jersey. 
Thomas V Johnsen, Newark, 
John Grimes Bomiion, 
Wright Fiavell Pa ters on, 
Dr. Charles F Clark, Woodbury, Gloucester Co., 
Jab-z L Allen, Dover Morns County, 
Abijah Willson Warren County. 
The gentleman designated are requested to give a 
wide circulation to this hppoal, ard editors of uewspa- 
pers are solicited to eive tt one or more insertions 

The letter of Mr. Walker aiiovc referred to, will be 
found in another column. 



Hi raid of Freedom, 



The sales of pu' lie lands la (ye; r amounted to 
67-1 acres, und the ^roceiiS to i.bout $^,055,034. A F. 



NOTICE. 



A LIBERTY PAPTY MEETING will beheld in 
the FREE CHURCH. B- onion, Saturday evening, 
Nov. 2d. next, at 7 o'clock. 

Srveral individuals will address the meeting. 

Ladies nnd Gentle m< n of nil parties are invited to 
attend. C. B. Norris. Sec. Lib. A, 

<Vt. ?r,«h.. 1P44. 



in tin priiici|aiiiy m Waldeck, Gertuauy, none u-e 
to marry is heicaher iobe guiuud toany oue addicted 
to drunkenn ss. This is us it should be. — American 

Freeman. 





VOL. I. 



BOOtiVTOIV, IVOYEM BEK 28, 1844. 



NO. 



THE FREEMAN 

will hi; published monthly uv 
' JOHN C! H I M ES, Editor and Probuiktpr. 
Boemtm, Morris County, Jersey. 



T . E R M 8. 

Single copy 2o eepts per annum, yr lor numbers. 

!l) copies to »ric address for, two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at. a pectin"iary sacriifkp, and; we -cannot afford jjP-EAB Sin 
to pay postage. 



Ul« « (ini: Letter from Mrs. Aurelia A. Work, 

. Whose husband is on$. of the three men who have 
.been confined in prison in Missouri three years for aid- 
ing a fugitive slave. They have njne years each to 
stay yet according tq the- sentence of a Slave . holders' 
court. Judge, LAWLESS, we belive presid«s.,in the 
Courts of Missouri. 

How long shall these things continue? 

Theopolis, (Ill-miis,) Aug. 13, 1844. 



I received your kind letter this afternoon, and I will 
improve the first opportunity to 'answer it, for I do truly 
believe I have found a friend in a stranger; and a friend 

rili need is a friend-indeed.'' Many a friend has sympath- 
Mr. Editor,- r^v il! \ou please permit me through the j z; .d with me whom 1 never saw, and never expect to 
cofumtifi of your paper, to express the deep 'interest 1 j see, this side of the g»ave; but 1 tnust I shall meet them 
fee! liu the great abolition movement, and .only regret j in heaven, where we shall tune o.ur harps and sing hal- 
ihaj ) cannot more ablv vimltcahi the cause of truth, j l?Uyah,tO the Lamb 

ma. . . When mv husband went away, i and my children were 

But pe V haps feeble end^s may .are tbett tmlu- ^ V ^ for QW daily hread . M y health was 
encc, and ther^o! times' >-hen it is trm^.m ^ n6 , g0 ^ }vhen he went.away. ■"^Myself and youngest 

child, a little girl eighteen months old, were forty miles 
from home at the time, he went, which was onMonday, 



fence — when justice cammey/ds «{•» to jifl up om v'dee jpr\ 
the truth. -Surrounded by opposers to abohtion, lam 
compelled to hear the Liberty Party blamed *nd misrep- 
resented, and shall I sit quietly without defeudmg it? 
No never! as long as I ha.ve an existen'fc'cc. 

1 was conversing a few days £ ago with a gentleman, 
that.^as calumniating the Lihesty .Party in n<3 gentle 
terms. Listen to me' said I for one moment; look upoai 
slavery as it really exists, stealing- men from their' own;-. 



and I got home the next Friday, with my little girl sick 
in my arms, and found. my youngest son quite sick. 

As soon &s 1 got into the house, my eldest son, of the 
age of nine years, said to me, 'Mother, where is father - 1 
he .went avV-iy on Monday, and we have not se^n him 
since.' Judge .mat my feelings were at that moment, 

I was at home but a few hours, before 1 heard he 
was in Palm via jail', in Missouri. In two.weoks L.wetn 
over to s"e him, a»id saw him upon. an average once a 



],,„ m .g__t} u . horrors of the Slave-ship— the Auction,— 

the sundering of ties dear as life L'stdt— (he weary (lays | , T(% ,| { v bi!t :be^\as in jail, which, was more than, eight 
0 f unfewuited toil— and then- the train, of evils that ne- j y Qe ] ts . I Jo .pot know how they could live so long 
..j-sarily follow andattciul such a system: luok at it j there in so dismal a placo. I have been tp .Jefferson 
bom-'lvand rmididfv. and then te!4 me if VQH should j twice, and expect logo (if the Lor4-spaues i»y life imc 

ody 'of that are eiMUav«nng to free | mi: strength and means) again noxt_ November. 



mot respect a..,...., -,. , v 

'jweoiintry from sTo monstrous an'.eyil, spyedlly as 
possible. "Ah":" said he," I cannot look upon .lavoryas 
it exists, it is so ho.rr.ihle; but tho.ab<>h'ti\;«ists ar» going 
too fest, they will defeat their-own-ends." Br.*, 1 said, 
why do you not suggest a bgtter plan, instead of ven- 
thjg your spleen against them.'. You say Jhat you. "can- 
not look at slavery, it is so 

by every means in ycrtu* power* (q hinder itsextinction. 

• Ah! .said he, '-let tlie -South legislate upon it them- 
selves, and,!!! ti^-tley will all be, free. The Liberty 
Partv are too fast, 
to atoms." I th-uk no).,, 



when the legislature sits, and plead with them for the 
release of my husband. But 1 will drop the subject, and 
write upon the one. you wish me to. . 

We have a small house which I have called our own 
but how long I can do so. 1 kupw not, for the sherifc 
came out yesterday morning, and banded me a writ, 10 
appear at the court-house the third Monday in Septem 
horrible," and' still endeavor | ber, to answer to a certain bill of complaint. Where it 
iwiU end, 1 know not. It is for the lawyer's fee in Mis- 
souri'. 1 am owing some cash debts: one, which is the 
most (except the lawyer's he,) is about twenty dollars; 
it was thirty -nine," but some friends iirConnectlcut sent 
uid vou will soon see them all blown j , R e some money sqme time ago, ayii paid the othe'i 
I answered, .vonsidermg how 'part. The man 1 owe it to lives somewhere in theeas- 



„• , ,, • Leri'States He bar; sent out twice to na\ r e it sued, but il he 

ars. Jiu* 1 thought il , J • , . ... u- n *■ * * * 

r . ,^il have pafence-, I will pay htm all. 



the. have -increased within ;i few Vea 

useless to di»crs-; the quest ior .-M lfft -him, predictingj Jfit hp-i^pt been forkin/ friends,' I do not know 

the oerttm pth- of '.he .Liberty Party; while 1 'hquglit ; w h<. r! . i -.hoit'ld have been aow. No living being but 

he iro-.-W Jhe <l ! " ( l •'" ''eliuq to their skirt* yet. and mean. e- \ myself kaoVS the troul 

m&ihx mVH^Hoq'.' * • •' ' ; for the last three years 

f But i bone. Sir, that your eilorts will n'eVof he -elax- ' ^fiuainted with gnet. 

I poorer and poorer ever since my husband Avent away 



Uii. i 



r -ality, wh 



Hi h< 

she is now peetieal- 



; & trials 1 have passed through 
1 aiii ri.wr\«xun of sorrow and 
My health has been growing 



thottgh 1 at: 



abb' to attend to my 



work. 



I wash for 

b'KrKI'Vnnfil the tVeotnan's song on. Piymbu'.h rock, thietfstud.-nt: , and take in a little spying. They paj 
shall hiet:t with a response from every heart in ti'iijj land mc j n work' again, ov let me have oy<«rs; but 1 cannot al- 
i fapV flee \merica! v. hat a contradiction, alasl.the Wavsget the most needfularticles with them, such asgro- 
; ighs and groans of Ab ie's injured irare, might well jus- ceries and flour. I am willing to do what I can to get 
Ltfv the eontemptuous couplet of the Poet, j a living, hut my family requires a good deal ot my time. 

.-The M flag that proudly »me* r • \ 1} am%bled to get a suflicency ot flou,; we bvemost- 
In Bpk&d mockery ie'r a la.td of slaves." •' i % $ ^e coarse article Perhaps y^^TdThen 
. . , • ' , ,-.;)i. that is: the superfine is taken out ot the wheat, and then 

hei toe v. bole W orld say that y S u "go too fast," what i ^ ^ and th is that I use is the next. I do not say 
mutters* it, the freedom of two millions and a half ofhu-| { ^ l() cbmplaip, for 1 should be glad to get enough 
man beings, toiling under the folds of America's proud even of that. I have had but a very little meat in my 
flu.',' is not so lightly won, the deep stain of slavery can- house for a good while. A friend sent me afrw pounds 

of pork, the- other day which 1 thanktully received. 

I have seen the time since my husband went away 
that 1 should be glad of bran to make bread of. It has 
got to be an old story, his being in prison. TheTC has 
beet: little jaid or done abput it. It troubles meto think 

s 1 . — ■ ; •- I about it. It troubles me to think that t]ie press is-sosi- 

Wo have Jelaye'}.'.th>; ^u'dicati^of the present num- j h n t about it. ¥ou wish.rqe to tell you what will make 
her, in order, to present in One view the Liberty vqto. of, my f;miily comfiirtable. It is hard for me to tell. 1 have 
all the States, but raimot get tin in, so ax to giv-e ''learned to get along witlL little. My Master knows what 
them Sufficiently co:t-ci. fir I'm on* reference, ami shall W( . need, and has sent me hei'p more than once when I 
doit in our next. • ' ' '. 'was nadV to despair. 1 musi trust in the Lord for a 



supply (for he is kind, and your kindness shows it) for 
the remainder of the summer and the coming fall and 
winter. You may think I look a great ways ahead. I 
do notknow aa I shall live till that time, but I remem- 
ber the winters that are gone by, and .what we suffered 
I can bear cold and hunger-much better than I san sj -_ 
my childuen bear them. Many a time ha^e. we shiver- 
ed over a few embers, and. I have waded through snow 
for wood, and to-.takneare of my cow, till my dottier 
have been fr^xzen jiear a : quarter of a yard de**p*. M any 
a time last winter did 1 travel through the snow to rind 
my cow. For the want oifood she wandered, off and 
I do not know but she will have to do the same the 
coming winter. You may think 1 1 tell you a great deal, 
but the one half? I have not told you. 

'If .the friends can spare bed • -clothing, or vvihlcs 
rlothes or shoes, or any such thing, or clothing of any 
kind, I should be very glad, for 1 think 1 could -.-x 
change somes of them for food, and some of therrnL 
want. I know money is very scarce. One. of the 
•eachers here has gone East, and I beard that himsdfer 
his agent was going to Vermont to get something, if m 
couldstbr the institution here. If you and your friends 
could, with out robbing yourselves, send me a small box 
by this man, I think the Lord will reward you. it is a. 
great favor to ask, and I will aot urge it If you sheu-Ld 
see fit to send a box; you will put in a paper contaniktg 
the names of the donors. It w ould be a comfort to me 
to read; them over.. 

I am glad to hear you speak so much about freedom 
If you were as near a slave State as 1 am, you v. oulc 
want to give two votes to a man. 1 live twosmiles f;,.a. 
the Mississippi-, which divides Ilhncis. inm M •:>sov.-: 

I have four children. I have buried «ne sim-v r 
husband went to prison. I have a little sonadde'dtomj 
family since he went away, His name is Alanson. ife 
is in his third year People that come htie ask hi:.', 
where his father is. He tells them he is in the pew ltn~ 
eta. They ask him what they shall do to the men whe 
put him there. He says, 'Pay them about the putting -jf 
sin?.*' that, is pray about their repenting of their sia- I 
think my husband being taken was the causa of av 
little girl's death. Shi- would lay in her cradle iron, 
■morning till night, and call for her father, till sht pined 
away and died. The day but one before she lied, 
^-he called for papa, and said she wanted to write- to 
father. The night before she died, (1 was watchhjg 
with hflft — it was past midnigt— no one in the. house hut 
my children, ,;xnd they asleep; it. was a very cold u-;ht, 
and I had no wood cut for a fire, and was shaking with 
he cold.) she went intoa fit, and I held'her in mv amis, 
I should think ten minute - that she did not breath- 

I awakened my eldest-child, and sent for a nei.ghi. ~ 
She did notbrea'he when the neighbor came. After she 
nad been here awhile. Ellen came partly out of the fit. 
;nd went into a another, which she never came cut o£ 
0! I thought if my husband had been here al the tier 
what would I have given ! But no ! it cou'd not hi 

There is a world which we are looking forward tr. 
where sorrowing and sighing will be done away, a; A 
where the w.tekedi will cease from troubling, a"nd ih'_ 
weary will be at rest. Perhaps you have not been cal- 
led upon to wade through the furnace of affliction ; hut 
with me I sometimes think it has been hea ted one sever, 
times* hotter than before. Bui the Lord's wiii, not :nin<v, 
fie done. 

My husband wishes me to go into Missouri and eir- 



uot be effaced without passing through the strong, wa- 
ters of opposition, but bear ye nobly' on, the victory shall 
be w-}:i, and 'futur;> gencrat-ons will bless the liberty 
Party in America. . • .1). 



culate petitions. I have already been three times, and 
exposed life and health, and Lam willing to do it again 
;r I caii get him released ; but my faith is very weak. 
Kind Sir, pray for tne and mine. 

Yours truly, AURELIA A. W011K. 



Editorial Duel- — In the New Orleans Republican, of 
the 28th ult. we find itstated that on the previous eve-' 
ning-a hostile meedng took place on the Metario track 
between two well known members of the party press. 
Weapons,. pistols— distance five paces. At the word, 
one- pistol missed fire ; the other's exp'oding, wounded 
his antagonist in the abdomen and left thumb. The par- 
ties exchanged salutations and separated. The names 
are not given. — Sentinel. 

The example has been fabhfuf'v set by Henry day, 
and well apologized for by Mr. Frelnghnysen. 



THE NEW JEKSEY 

B0OiSTui\, ^oVjJM.bh'R. 28, 1844. 



»T- , ,• , , . \y October, 1844. 

In this way, wo Del .eve the whigs have done thorn- ; ; Rout. R. Page, Justice of the Peace 

selves vast injury every where. 

According 'to the last testimony, the first Roorback ; . , The New Vork Evening Posf says —"Nov; it is ov- 

story about^Mr. Polk's branded slaves, is fas'.' ned upon - ld °,S| U P°" thp facc 01 *» ^j**" is r a , *>tf*ty 
. •' ... . . . 1 1 ne scheme is on>' nt Ihp mnd iliarrif-ofn) onrl 



Lei us throw log' lite mask — 'us a cobweb one aj. best, , g rea t numbers 



The scheme is one of the most disgraceful and dastard- 

thc whm- This falshood, has done much to prevent : , y lhat has t heen devftlope( , » 6 

s oi Demoorats who were, disgusted with ; ,vr. t> „*,. •* . . ,,, . ~ . , 

„ , * B ! Mr. Birney it was supposed would hc*k Sa«*inavy- be- 

.vorld will see through it. it will not uo thus to . thc proceedings oi the Baltimore Convention, from vo- fore the Ohio Election, but by accidentfe was detained 



talk like philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants; \ t j u » fae liberty ticket; in this way the vote for Pglk has 'so that he arrived in Cleveland on the day of election, 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty fos our tex j been swelled much beyond what it would have lieen, ' ^ there 6» the first found this letter and immediately 
a'.,,. uctua i oppression for our commentary. | had the whigs acted honorably, i writes |s follows to the Editor of the Boston' Chronicle. 

But the greatest of all mean things, is their persevo- ri«»vi.»irn K nv { ig.44. 



Wm. J'inckney, of Maryland. 



Oleavland. Nov 

; ring attempts to make out a coalition between Mr. Bir- ; Dear Sir— I saw, a few hours ago, at Fuirport, where 
In ail things that have, beauty, there is nothing to man : ney an j (ne loco focos. This attempt of the whigs, and i the steamer stopped a few minutes, the let icr purporting 
•pore comely than LIBERTY Milton. their dishonorable perseverance in it, after thev knew to be written by me to Mr. Garland. . dated Sept. 2(i, 

- — - ^ 5- -rr-r ! it to be false; the simultaneous publication of forged let- ! * 8 ;"- Thu * ette r, Is AN ABSOLUTE FOR- 

t u-s and affidavits in different parts of the countrv on ! E , V ? V,° ^ ^ w ^Tf! 1 do , not 

- , .-' » . " , . , •' .think iiirdsall, I hayer and Davis would do so base 

the eve ot the election, too late to oe contradicted' 1 „, f u„j „ A, 

. ■ . ' . r an ac t, bad as the times ate. 

sho vs a baseness 1 if the business of electioneering in- ! • T IMES G BIR\"E V ' 

trigue without a parallel.- Mr. Birney war nominated | j R Garland ,ays that Mr. Birne" has neversaid or 

at a Convention 111 Sagiriaw County, for a suit in thc. •« „ ... . « lL .. . , 

J . •- • -written any Mich things as the forgonk iclier contains 

Legislature, as a fit person to protect the interests ot thc t 0 him. 

County, which had been verv much vroug.-d, awl- ex-.i u 4 ,.„„ 0 f v . ,1 ■ ■ , , .. . > , , 

It turns out that there is no ;.uch Justice as Rohl.i 



For President, 

TAMKS G. USUNEV. 

• OF MICHIGAN. * • 
For Vice President, 

THOMAS MORRIS, 

OF OHIO. 



1 ex- i 

j.pected to be voted for by all parties. Such . was the R p agC) am| « ierefort! the manu fr, tm . ors of the lct!er 
! confidence of all parties in him us a man ,f '^^"ty ! must F epare something to. remedy this difficult?, artS 



The result of the late Elections, prove most unequiv- 
ocally the folly of leaving principles to follow after a j 



1 ihat they were willing to forego a!J party attachments, , „...!.„ .u,. 

' j majte the nunibag down among the poeplc at a dis 



and vote for him, without asking or expecting any pledge ; tance. 



time serving expediency. This lesson comes with pe- 
culiar force to those abolitonists, who have turned their 
backs upon the Liberty Party to vote "this once," for 
a duelist and slaveholder to fill an office, which above 
all others, should be filled by pure minded, honest rxen; 
who above all others, should be in theory and practice, 
tru*. lovers of impartial, universal liberty — LIBERTY 
FOR ALL. 

Such abolitionists have not only thrown away their 



Statk or Michigan, County of Gei 



I Th< 



from him, other than that of seeking the good of '.he ; 
County he should represent. The SccretarD oftliati~; . 

r , - .. .. -Vi i r • j- T ' 1* ,lh K - *-uninungs, Clerk m and fcr Ir.e county ( f Genc- 

Convention, writes as follows to a lnend in LoweS:. mn -,f,,™,;j J„ „„,» r . <i . n • 4 t> ti .i_ 

' ,see aioresaid, do certify-, that Robert K. Page, the per- 

"It was not with any expectation that Mr. Birney | yon before whom the above affidavit purports' to bave 

had changed or would change his political principles. The ; been taken, was, at the time of taking the same, an ac 

people of the county, knowing the relation in which Mr. ! ting Justice of the Peace, duly qualified lb administer 

Birney stands to the Liberty party, could not expect any i oaths; and I further certify, (hat 1 am acquai'iufd with 

■suah change for a seat in the. legislature. In fact I en, i the handw riting of said Page, and believe the same to be 

tortain too high an opinion of him as a citizen and apoli- i genuine . 

fician, to hope for fliat. ; ' % 1 , In testimony whereof, I have hereunto s.-t my Hand 

The October election having passed and the first edi- i affixed the seal of the Circuit Cout of the Cotuuy 0 f 
votes, but they have to^ay the least, for the time being, j t ; on 0 f|he coalitioB/hmubug having becwv.e exhausted, j i t c ) Genesee aforesaid, on this 21st of Qcto- 

) ' \ ber, 1844. 



thrown away their principles also. 

When we look upon these men, as men whose muic!>- 
have been enlightened in 0 certain degree upon the cor- 
rupting influence of slavery, not only upon the morals 
of the whole country, but to an alarming extenf, upon 
the administration of the government; and see the 
whig candidate for the vice Prsidency, deserting his high 



THOMAS CUMMINGSj 

Clerk of said County. 



it was necessary to hatch it up in a new form in order j 
to operate on the elections in Nov. A letter, purporting 1 
to be a letter from Mr. Birney to .1. B. Garland of Sijg- j 

inaw, must be manufactured, and published in a hand-; iile i)<-ll ' ,lit Eree Press, says that CummingJ is not 
bill from a whig office in Genesee Co. Michigan? andj lhe aame of - ,he clcrk of Genesee County, 
placed at the disposal of the whig editors in different j Now follows forgery the third. 

_ parts of the country, to be ready for publication on the j Stath or Mic iik^an, County of Genesee. We the 
moral character, by consenting to be placed on the same | eve of the most important elections, too "l.Ho 'to have j undersigned, Whig County Corresponding Committee, 
Ticket with with the ""-reat embodiment" of slavery ! their influence counteracted, before the votes of the ! !or the County of Genesee, aforesaid do certify that we 

apologist for the same great duelling transaction, that he j 1 his letter, which appeared in the whig papers in the | a mem b<. r „f the Presbyterian church, in good standing 



hut a few years before condemned in the most unqual 
l!ed terms; we feel that the defeat of the whigs, was 
the just decree of Heaven, and a most righteous rebuke ' 



extreme parts of the .Country at the same time, we 'in this village— that he this day called upon us and ex- 
give as follows, from the Boston Chronicle. I hibiled for our inspection the letter of which the above 
Sagin aw, Sept, 26, 1844. f's a true copy— that he stated to us that he had called 

rWfl Si« I have for several davs nasi been serious I u P on l ' 10 publisher of the " North Star," published at 

BdftiHustercd to those men wno have trampled principles [ ^f' ™* > 1 n «» e ,w ' 1 v :': u s P dS » l '^ cn SC) ,0 " h yko-inaw and rennest..d him t« ««ki; -k .id • ■ 

.. ■ , . t - j : ly reflecting upon the proposition made xm hv vmi and ! p a gmaw , ana reooesteo mm to publish the foregoing, 

under foot, and suttered themselves to be found, oven j a{our p rivate V„ee.ta.g, on the evening of M t|,is h " «WM« all of which we hereby ce,-tif> . 



«<this once" propping up the abominable slaveocracy of|the -17th inst. To-morrow I start for the Eastland! 
this nation. j shall not return until after the election. My journey is 

The Whigs charge their defeat upon the abolition- i indispensable, else a duelist and. gamble* will soon 
6 ts. If this were true it would not make us weep that j 611 the seat ofa Washington, a Jefferson and a Jackson, 
we had defeated the elevation of Henry Clay, the only 



thing v/e can regret is, that we could not have defeated 
Po'k, his equally unworthy competitor also. But it be 



After mature reflection, i have concluded to accept 
the nomination of representative to the StifLalegislnture, 



I'AMF.S BIRDS VLL 
\. THAYER, 
A. P. DAVIS. 
Oounly Corresponding Committee-. 
Flint, Genesee county, Oct v 21, 184 V. 

The foi'o^ ing letter to the Editor of the Boston 



provided your convention see fit K/nomiaate me. Chronicle, show s the temper and ipirit of Mr. BifMf 



In case my abolition principles are assigned as a rca- j Rs>ad it imd compare it with the" spirit of the u hiss" 
comes us to look into this matter: if it is so, it will prove I son why I should pot rcfiwve the nomination nt -the j . • .. ,. , 

hands of the democrats, you are hereby authorised to ! Uear brother, how ought I to praise and magnify the 



the faLity of one thing, that whigs and democrats have 
from the .first, endeavored to make out; viz., that we 
arc too insignificant to deserve any notice. We think 
the conduct of the whigs during the last electioneering 



sav to the Convention, that I am x.,w u:iu weu iUve S na me of the JLord 1 lie gives me powers to stand up 



been, a Democrat of the " Jeffersonitm school." The 1 "gamst my enemies, witliout any feeling of ill will a- 
democracy of the country 1m1st.be Well satisfied that / Jgainstthem. He enables me to sec the. dreadful con- 
am rendering them more effectual service bt t udrocting ah- i d,tlon , "* to . w^fchUtey have brought 



campaien, proves bevond a doubt, jthat they have not oHtim principles, <A«m if I were orENi.v a democrat, j no ° tncr « ( ' sin ' 
" . *, e ;• You aj'e lurther authoris»id to say to the convention, 3N "e .appro /cs 

cons.dered us unworthy of notice. j m ^ , shoul(| u feIcctpd t0 \ hc olfice 0 f r ' £ ■ held by his < ve, 



We deny the chyrge, and can, we think fasten it upon 
the whigs themselves. Their base attempts' to deceive 
liberty men by their sophistry, actual falshoods and for- 
geries, their bitter and persecuting war upon the Liberty 
Party; their. mean and unprincipled humbugs, have been 
sui'dcia! to their cause. Those Liberty men who had 
jnce been whigs, $1 listened to their misrepresentations, 
and decided to vote for Clay, have not helped the whigs, 
but bave inflicted a two fold injury upon the liberty 
party. It has operated in this way, we are informed 
that in a village in this county, a liberty man, one who 
'■Mid beer, so for some years, yi'ddtd under these clam- 
ors, and concluded to vote for Clay. Two democrats 
w ho had decided to vote for Birney, declared (hey 
would neutralize that vote by voting for Polk. Thus 
Clay got ona vole, Polk two, and Birney lost three. 



ght the country, with 
110 other desire than to reform it — and by such means 
es. Never have J so felt that I am up- 
1 lasting arm, and that his good provi- 
tative from this county, I shall cheerfully ar»d gratefu|y i was ab(m ' «nd around me, as* I have since I saw 

perform the duties assigned me, and hereby pledge my-jy 0 '"" •'■ " 

self to go for Democratic men and measures, and (as| ' We would like to extend the testimony in this case 
you suggested in our recent conversation) will forego the | much farther, but space will not permit, This diabol • 
agitation of the slave question in our State Legislature. 1 ' ca l u ork of ths whjgs, lias lessened the liberty vote 
Commend mo to your amiable lady, and believe me, | 'his fall, but it has rebounded upon the whigs with ter- 
rible effect. We believe it has deprived them of the vote 
of the state of New Vork, if not of other stale:;. 

It is their own act. In their desperation (hey have 
committed suicide, and rendered themselves contempti- 
ble before the world. We think this matter should be 
kept before the people until it is thoroughly understood 
every \«here. Let some. one. bo is competent, become 



truly yours, &c, 

James G. J5:;ctt, 

J. B. Garland, Esq. 

State of Michigan, ^ ■ 
County of (renesrn. <| 

J. B. Garland, being sworn, suyn, thai he had arc- 



ully compared the above copy with the original,. now in ; aoquainlpd n . ith the whole transaction from beginning tt 
his possession, and believes thc same to be correct. J P1K |. cond ;, nse aM tha? is ini , 10 rtant in tract form, and 

J. B. GAKLA.VD. (1, „„„.♦!,„,„ I. ».U-1i.«J \\ p ^Jj,. 



Ihrwv them broad cast over .the wad. — 
Sworn and subscribed before me, this 21st day of 1 00, and pay for them. • 



w-y &dinfi&r fvM '-.•^***.zr r .e,yi£_ tl ± w.-^y/Mnnanw. - 



Liberty in Use United Stales !! 0 57JR JEXC'JHMl.VGJES. 

Throe young men are now in prison in Missouri char'- j Wh^i we commenced the publication of the Free- 
ged with i i ling in the escape of Slaves. They have wm, • small sheet once a month, we had not the con- 
heen sentenced to 12 years hnprisoiimeat; throe years | fidesce to ask an exchange; but inasmuch as we began 
have expired without any manifestation of sympathy •• ith no other motive' than to help on the cause of free- 
from the government of that slate. They were men of'Idom, we have sent our paper to all known abolitionists 
unsullied characters, engaged in works of benevolsoce. S i» the State end many who are not abolitionists, and to 

Jonathan Walker of Mass, lies in prison in Peusaco-Jall the Liberty Papers, where we have known. the ad- j persons who had become disgusted at the selfishness 
la, and Rev, Charles T.' Torry in jail in Baltimore, <$har- j dress'. We have distributed twice as many papers as j-which appeared to prevail in both the other pa; tie; ai 
ged with the same offence, loaded with irons. \ we have had subscribers for, and have done it exclu j bad -resolved to stay away from tlx polls, »u<1 L.v. • n • 

The Rev. Calvin Fairbanks of Ohio, and Miss. Delia ; sivc% at our own expense. \ wing more to do with politics. 

A. Webster of Oberlin, niocs of Hon: Daniel Webster,'* j ' We have had the satisfaction of receiving nearly all j But when the question was fairly pfes< tiled [)< tor 
are now in jail in Lexington Kentucky, "under charge J the Liberty papers in exchange where we have sent the them, and they saw that by going to fhe ballot bos «n< 



A Correspondent WrUes; 

During the fate Hb&eu&i! 
election I was in Blooming Grove N. V. Th ■ 
of the people in that town have begun to be. cansidcxabh . 
interested in behalf of the. Liberty cause. Twelve , > :'.. 
were cast for our ticket: only seven bad been give;; ;.• ■ 
fore. Two or three of those who voted this tms'e weio 



of "negro stealing," the Jailor writes, WJ certify for (jood . Fre.eman, and feel grateful fork, because it has given 
cause, I have had the said Fairbanks ironed," I us important intelligence from all parte of the country, 

It will no doubt be for the good of the cause of negro tpd we have faithfully distributed our exchange papers 
stealing, 'these things call for the speedy interference j among the people, and by. this meajs, we have done 



casting their voles for the Liberty ticket i\i> 
ert an influence for the oppressed; i! ny 
They felt that they could now vote in sue; 



isk-G 



rl'fi hB 



One of them, a \i. 



I have fn\'% 



ssing upon it. 

of the free .States. Shall oav live and respectable citi- j much to prepare the way for efficient future action at i spoken man, having deposited his vote , was about I 
sens be incarcerated in loathsome prisons, with common the ballot box in New Jersey. . '(leave the polls, when au individual pv sei . ••miaikeu 

felons, under the most false and frivolous pretences; 1 We intend to continue using the papers we receive in j "There, you have thrown away your vote!" ^No'Wul 
whipped in ike public streets without' trial, while enga- 1 the same way in future, arid we hope soon, to come, up I he, "1 haw up; throw n away my vofo, 
ged in lawful business; and outraged in evf ry possible ! .weekly to the battle ourselves; but this will depend up- j for Cod, and it it: registered in maven. ' 
manner, and no notice takjn of it by the states whose on the aid we receive; we canifot do any more thau we ; -o — u--«- 

cjitizens are thus outraged ' We believe not. A few are now doing without more support from othevs. «Bnc*K it Down " Thfeseems •;' • 

more siich outrages v ill no doubt, arouse the just i-o- ; We also intend to give a list of the Liberty party pa- i Q £ Whigs this yettr in reference to th< Lib 
s-ntinenl of the people, and operate for the "good of the pers as fast as space will permit; with a view of getting I The Boston Chronicle suvs that a man of 
cause." j 'them before the people, and giving information where ! tinable veracity rode in the cars with an Old friend fro: 
' Probably not a niece < ,f Daniel Webster. i they can be had, so that any who choose can subscribe,.' Maire— a Whig- who said in substance We j tVJu : 



ocr- 
* 

ues- 



Vrec llepuMic! 



\ and get intelligence from any part of the country. 



have no "expectation of carrying our Slate for Clay. 

, , , — We have bent all our efforts" tills year to bnafc >;;■ 

We had it in our power to give in our last, but a very j 'be Liberty party, and if we can get them to vot« c-itb 

I for Clay or Polk, wc don't earn which, they are g >ue. 
! The Chronicle adds:— We have it from (he !:«•.,». au 
hority, that this remark was made by au active Whig of 

Bangor U^xlt". 



Among the .efforts made by the whigs before election 
to frighten the members of the iibertv party from- their 

posts, and make them vote for Clay; the doctrine boldly ; return ef the Liberty vote in this State at th< 

advocated in Boonton, where there are a few natural- i ^ ,ol f r eleClioH - The political papers ,i^ew Jersey 

ized foreigners, that all such citizens who vote the Lib- r the Same m other Statps > the >P * m "f* j Mah " ' a , a ™ in Fryebjarg .» i 

ertv Ticket commit perjury, and are liable to he sent to ! re S artl lhc abolltM > n votes as of ' hp & M ! * . 1 

fhe" State prison; is the most ridiculous: and shows the P ort f f before election ' butt <> 0 contompt.bte to be no- 

.. , . /; m „„ „„. A„>„ ticedsfcer election. Before election they talk as if the | .. ■ . .he kighi siuplr. 

petty shuts resorted to, to wfieeflle men our o! taear •> 

lionet votes. A very desirable citizenship tvulv! in I 0,ll >' salvation * f thc couhtr ^ was 111 lhe Ub ^ \ The following excellent resolutions were ado- 

these F*c States it must be, when we e»r.not vote us ! aiter olcclio;i v ' e cmnot fim1 out throu S h lluir i 5a " ' a late Liberty meeting in Philadelphia 
we please without committing perjury; and making our- ; P rts owa tI,at flierfc ls such a P^" Resolved, 'fhat we are in iavcr of « tenlf lU 

.selves liable to imprisonment. "But we forbear', iiu I The 9n! >" rctu!ms oflibert y votes, at th ^ieiooer ne,- 
t .. • , . ... , , ■ •, „ , i lion we" have" s^'en iii the papers, were taken froio th 

thing is too contemptible to merit a coalmen'. r i > ■ 

Newark Sentinel; and that paper sot down the vott 



The Whigs call themselves the only true liberty par- ! Co " « 15 which we find ™ cal,,n § at 

ty, and their leader, the "great embodiment of Whig ! offx * to be 26 ' In lhp samc P a P er tfae L,bcrl > r voto ol 
principles." Their party contrails the legislature of j ™ P" 1 at 9 i a friend fror!! thatCoun- 

Kentucky, and Ashland is but one mile from Lexington j % roturns us 20 ' k returns lbr 3VIort,R Count > 33 » ,h(> 
Where Fairbanks and Miss Webster arc in prison, for an ! r,;cords sa >' • 34 " 0ur volc is smal! in New Jerse >*' bl " 
act of humanity, the former in irons. Let us now see j ,JU1 ' strength Js not what our enemies represent, owing 
if the Whig Liberty party of Ohio, and Kentucky with i t0 a ^»»t of organization; only four or five counties in 
her "great embodiment," will interfere and set thoir | thei Slate having a regular Ticket, 
outraged citizens free? — — o o o 

The doctrine of some politici«Bs at the. present day, 

that wo cannot speak of the Grimes of one bad man, with 
out praisfeg another bad mail is a most ritlic h is soph 
is'n • The Whigs Insist upon it that in exposing the 
crimes Of Heniy Clay, we are the advocates of Polk. 
This h to absurd to deserve a serious refutation. 

It iv©uld lir just as ->roper to charge those, who ex- 

, posing the wickedness of Satan, with worshiping Be* 1- 
i; h>q. Weil, vou lik.' to have good wages I suppose? i . t w . u . , .v, I .... • , . 
_ - ° o ii I zebuo, nut what renders the charge stih more absurd 

Coll. Yes, certainly, like to be paid for m is t!l0 1Vl tlial hQ Liberlv Editor or Lecturer that we 

oor, the laborer is \> or'hy ot his hire." . . , ... ,"', k 

' J ; are acquainted with, and they are numerous, has ever 

W lua. 1 iien vou should vote for Henry C;av, heV, ; . . « t v n n e .i_ 

•' - . . * " ceased to expose the crimes of J . K, Polk, as far as the> 

the man that will give us wood wages, . . , i .i < 'i 

, f .... - , _ , ° ,• nave been known; nor have they ceased to hoid hitn up 

Coll. How can that be f They sav Henry Clay dont , , . , n . ^ , • , 

. . , , , , - - « - i brioro the people as utterly unfit for the office fo which 

pay his laborers any thmj; but th\) lash. — it's no eo.i- k • • 

c- , . . , , «? - he was aspiring. 

feir, I go tor men that pay, and "Henry dont my, 

that's all. _ The result of the late election shows . very plainly 

Nkw Jerskv: — I he returns iti t>:is Stau; show*a small j '-bat the whigs hold the balance of power, and had they 
gain since thc October Election — As usual it is impos- j voted for Birney, a slave-holder would not have been, 
sible to get the true returns. . We think considering the j 0 l e vated to the presidency. But in voting for Clav, they 
unexampk-ti baseness ol die whigs m their reiterated \. a ; j « ™ „ ,»'_!. ,? j ■ 

falshoods and forgeries, their whipping and driving, V0?5cl for Polk > and the y owe rt to th " lr own 



"Henry <&ont Ptiy" 

Trie followiiig DSalogus took {»laco a- the iate ekc- 
tion in this place, between a. whig* and a working man 
from the mountains, 

Whip. Yon are a collisr, I believe? 

Colt. Ves, I am. 



coaxing, threaten! ' . b-'bing, and compelling; we have 
done well in gai n g twelve per cent, in one month. 



obstinacy in refusing to vote for Birney, that J. K. Polk 
a human flesh monger, and immediate annexationist i* 



Our vote in October was 115, according to the best! elected. Had they voted for Birney, New York would 
mformatien; in .November 135, vb Morris, 34, Essex; notWe gon , ; for p olk . an4 Birney would have recciv- 
29, Gloucester, 27, Hudson, 8, Bmluurton, 7, Susssx,7. 1 , , ,,, , * t ,.\.' 

The whig pap .rs report 9, for Passaic. ■ which we do I cd a wajonty-we should have a true friend of liberty, 
not believe is correct. A few vo. es in other counties, an( ' an °PP osc r of annexation either remote or immedi- 
as .near as we can come at them make 135 ' afte, at the head of Government. 



be sufficient in its magnitude to proper the 6cd$ -t stir 
..uman being in the United States; and that after rsta!.- 
Ashing such a tariff, it v. iii not be aSScuit to adjust that 
• oinor and insignincaut tarifi which protects; the gar- 
ments.' 

Resolved, That we. are in favor «f a ^nitcd Stau.- 
Bank that will honor a </»•(//*, drawn by the poorest ei; 
zen for "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness -/'ai-.e 
lhat after establishing such an snslitutu !• it will not : 
difficult to regulate an institution for rhe i . nefit of thcs- 
sordid minds .hat deal in nothing but dollars and cent:-. 

Resolved, That we go for a law establishing a sound 
national curre ncy, which shall lm-.ke every human being 
pass free and current throughout the Uhifod Stater At'y. v 
this, the petty considerations of cn's.andmills canea sir 
be settled. 

Resolved, That we are in favor of a ^uh-treasury fo- 
>-d with jewels composed of every human being withn. 
the United Spates, and so curiously constructed as 
to admit a coin lew than a whole man. After this. :•" 
box can easily be constructed that will I oh! "the rev< 
nue. 

Resolved, That .we are in fa vor of imeriu.: im|>rovc- 
ments such a< shall improve the moral- intelh ct-jat^ a<id 
political condition of man, and open a ."highway oi hat 
iiness," lhat every human being may walk therein, and 
breathe the pure air of freedom. After this great nation 
al work shall have been accomplshed, we sndl find leis- 
ure to consider of such trifles as Cumberland : mk^ 
railroads and canals. 

Resolved, That our first object is. to make a distribu- 
tion of the proceeds of the human race in such a man - 
ner as shall establish and protect the - relation of hut 
band and wife, parent and child, and brother and sister 
After that shall have been done, we can attend to tht 
petty consideration of -the proceeds of the public lands 

Trie Forged Garland Lettter.-^-Th- Ohio State Join; 
nal copies the letters of Mr. ESriiey, declaring iheiettef 
purporting to have been written by him to J. B. Gar- 
land a forgery throughout, and savs, "We shall unite on:- 
best exertions with those of our friends to trace the iry 
position to its source and expose the authors, ^hoevr; 



they may be. 
the subject.'] 



\tc;'_-ures h:iv-> r-lr^ady !:e-?i": taker, ov. 



( 



J 



POETRY. 



TO K VJtl SJELEjJEMtS. 

Of you, oh, ye rum sellers, wdl heaven require, 

An account of your traffic in this liquid fire. 

By you is thearmoi'the murderer neived; 

By you are the public with robbers well served ; 

By you is the razor of suicide guided ; 

By you is ourhoiy religion derided ; 

By you are o;ix prisons and poor houses stocked ; 

By you arc the doors of misery unlocked ; 

By you our asylums for insane are filled; 

By you are the troops of the devil first drilled ; 

By you is the fond parent's heart often krokc; 

By you the white slaves must submit to his yoke ; 

Bv you brightest' talents are covered with rust; 

By you are ten thousand now crumbling to dust ; 

By you hcl! throng'd by legions unnumber'd; 

Bv you are all happy pltces encumbered ; 

By you and your traffic all misery flows ; 

By Yor the sad grave o'er the drunkard is closed. 

Liberty Standard, Me. 

To Freemen. 

•'Do your duty. He will aid; 
Dare to vote as you have praved; 
Who e'er conquered, while his blade 

Served his open foes? 
Right established, would you see.' 
Feel that you yourselves are free, 
Strike for that which ought to be, — 
;God will bless the blow." 

Middlesex Standard, Ms. 



COLO VIZ A - ION BENKVOLdENCE til 

The kite Stephen Henderson of New Orleans; provi- 
|ed i i hi< will for. th" liberation of certain slaves', pro- 1 
jvidd thev would go to Liberia and on condition that ! 
i; thev soou'd ever come back to 'his country, they i 



should return to slavery ! 



A. S. Reporter. 



Horrors of the Slavt- Trade. 

The S >uth African Commercial Advertiser of Jan., 
«,>ys, that in some ol the slav-ng vessels recently cap* 
tured, the space between decks, where the living cargo- 1 
was s'owed a«ay, was 30 small that young clii^reti, 
boys and girls from ehjht to tw< fve \, oars of age. L'ould 
not creep in on their hands and knees -they were posh- 
ed in, or lying flat on their fares-, crawled in like sc r 



We recently had the Pleasure pf'ronversing v,ith a 
well-known Fi iend from Loudon comity V'iginia. He 
givesuBncoiuaging accounts ot the state of sentiment in 
that region. The Friends there arc renewing the ir 
cflorts against slavery, and; the public sentiment sus- 
tained such efforts. ' We shy to our friends throughout 
the free Slates, be of good cheer, abetter day is dawning. 
We know from, source's to be relied upon that in. K( 1 - 
tuck y, Vi.iginia, Tennessee, and Maryland, private ef- 
forts, .judicious, and more and more effective, arc 
now on foot against slavery. The time will soon come, 
when the fruits shall he made manifest. ''—rCin. It/raid 



The Clergy noth ing to do with Slavery ? 

William T. Hamiltan, D. D..of Modile,' who pub- 
lished under his own band in the Tribune; Ortob r :2f)\ 
184H, that h»- did not believe sjajecho'dhnftjo bee .si;/ 1 
and that he saw no more sin in pnrrluas\ii(f a negro than 
in the purchase of a Iporsfi, has recency visited this city 
to 'solicit funds fyr the erection of a Se.in Cha: el at 

Mobile, wh" re they imprison t ern colored .-.camen 

during their stay in that port. The America n Sean) >m's 
Friend Society cor.) mended "puHirdiher llauiil'tou" to 
I 'he confidence and liberal aid of the Chris jail < (i;:mu 
j nity, and Gardiner Spring, D. D., and 'Rev. Mr. Jaco-'j 
! bus. of ti'c Old School Presbyterians, and Rev. Edwin i 
|F. Hatfield, of the New School Presbyterians, and' 
compiler of " Freedom's Lyre, or Psalms Hymns, and - 
Sacred Songq for the Slave mid his Friends," invited' 

said Hamilton to preach in flieir pulpits!! .!. S. Hep. 

i :i ( I 

Mow Slavery plunder* the Siaje, 



A Twin-Uncle ! — At Massat, in Fiance, i n the 20th 
iilt'., two females, mother and daughter, gave" birth to a j Sixty-eight thousand dollars have been I 
rnalechild within two minutes of each other. The babies I State of Kentucky up to the pros, tit tunc, for s|i 
-.vere put into one cradle whilst ( he mothers were attend- eculcd as crimir.a 1 - !■.!. 
edto, ajid the result was an impossibility to distinguish j 
which was the uncle and which was the nepheyv.-- Ncn 
tinel. 



v nil- 
's ox 



list ol 



Tcetotalhrs. — We have never known but or.e Liberty 
voter who was not a thorough going teetotaller. He 
was a rumseller, and he stopped the People,s Advocate 
because it said so much against the traffic, hut he has 
latelv given up the vile business, and, we trust, he will 



Some of the Lib'-ity papers l)au». a itii?*tliii ■ 
Temperance Ho'els, for the States iVherc the pj perVajc 
published'-- wish e$j> New Jersey friends would 'make 
out such a list for us, we cannot even tfegin it ourselv es, 
for we do not know of one such House in the Stat'-.: 



'the only party that can say, "We are ail teetotallers.'* 

Granite Freeman. 



Ordination. — The iiev. Hem v ridden was ordained 
and installed pastor ol the Free Church in Boonton 
return to his anti-slavery duty. The Liberty party is j 0rt 30 1S44 The Scrm - on bv th( , Rov s> ^ Cuchnrn 

of New York, from Mark 1.6:15, "preach;he gospel 6ic. 
was a very solemn and impr, ssive exhibition of the 
necessity and character of the Gospel of Chiitfi. It 
was listened to with deep interes , am! will I , , \, ■ re- 
membered by those who heard it.' 

Ordaining prayer, and pghi hand of fellowship, bv 



CBacap Postage 

The Penny Postage system in England works ad- 
mirably. The last dates give'an increase of revenue, 

in last quarter, over the corresponding quarter of 1343, jRev Wm> p KusS( ,, of p 4)leis , )M , mtH ( |,. ( .,,, v S1 ,| ,„„ 
upwards of forty thonsand pounds sterling, equal to near and a ^ c ,i llg . He made a n.0.1 touchii. r-.allasion fM',, 
ly TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS. wickcd , rosc „ ption „ f Mr , U ;, dell m , ,,' , v , ,, „,„„■,. , 
That is the result, of a system, corresponding with Our sa|<e . ,, y the PrtsUvtery of which In- had been a member, 
demand of TWO CENTS POSTAGE. We w.sh tne membes of tha. body aulfl ofbkrd il 

The two ceuts system would work well here. Let us ' The , |utips aI)( , re8p0 , )sib j| lt j, s , „ i>„,,|,, r „! n 

^ 1 " c were ably and solemnly set forth by Rov. ) . Undi iv cod 

^«my.- Whnt has Unclf. Sam gained, by his ojj- j 0 f Newark, in hi.- charge to the mintstcr.'' 

The charge to the people, by the Rev. .Mr. Maitin of 



The Skcond Advi-nt.. 

The believers in t c.secoiid. adyeul Doctrine, as re- 
cently advocated, have .-et one time after another for the 
worlds* destruction. The last time set has gone by, 
and as we have froyj the first, oelieyed,, the world is still 
11: br ing, and things are going on very much as usual. 

The great mass of the conductors of 4hc political and 
n 'igious press, hav*- from the first, in an ungenerous 
and iiiif«-cling miinii i„lal-ored unceasingly to pour con 
t( nipt and ridicule upon the believers of that di.e trim 
Wit!) such we i;c>5$ have biwi tie least s\ mpathy. \V<- 
hiivu always rega'rrt'jtl the ^L-riles, as in an en;or, bijJE 
from the fir.-t, have b l:e\ ..-i.'it'icm irnly honest. Belie v- 
ng as they a.d. the grtat»mass ol them have douejii&t 
as they sliould^o. Jt was najhkig less than a firm and 
unwavering failL in the writle,; revelations of God f thar 
made them Millerites. Take from them ihut faith and" 
thev never eoujd believe the doc.rine of the second ad- 
vent. They erred in their calcubiti'ot.s, 'bet they have 
been consistent, and we repeat, believi:ig as they did 
thev haye done. as they should dV, 

I Bel :eving that the, end ol all things eaiihly was near, 
and that they in common'wiih al! tln-i;-- felifiw-bcingf 
would s^ion be exiled to th-eir final account; i| «as their 
duiy t« go out and preach. If they had pr<yi;trtv,,l'. e\- 
have been consistent in ffistrihuting .t among 1 he poor; 
! Foil i-toncy repaired ifietqt to labor fan h.'i IK . :v.;a| 
ous'Vnn,, ^easMigly I* W3eii tbiir fuliiiw v.i$u, and-, 
piepare ih.jm for the sole|iiu event so.nen 1 at h ind. 

'J hey erred 111 tbe'r enJeuhit hik b u thev have bOeh 
jCO!*sistent and faiihful, and so far vfp honor tfaim* 

We. Cannot say this of the great i\iuss of tho*e w,ilo ■• 
have en dea, cared to bold them opto ridicule. The his- 
i toiy of the lives of a majority of these, we believe 
[ would- be otfe continued history of mighty diserepencies 
between profcs-ion aed practice. Not r() wit i :hc sec- 
dud advent people. Their course of conduct has been 
in ac< oid nice with their bel ei", and sti for we feel that 
they are more entitled to our respict'and confidence as 
honest men, than those wl o have laughed them tfi scorn. 

We think those. chri -tin 11s, \<ho do not r.-ceive thuin 
without a iv dhiiinntioil ol rc. pic , are not w< rthy.lhe 
ikiu'C thev beair 



pressive system, in the last quarter? 



JLiberty Jffinstrel. 

* By Geo, W. Ci.ark, the Liherty Singer, is now 
in market, it contains some of the choicest poetrv, n- 
daptcd to the Liherty causr.'and set to appropriate mu- 
sic. We cheerfully recommend it to all the lovers of 
Liberty and Melody. . 

_0 0 

Massachusetts. — The Liberty voto is 10.959. In 
1843 it was 8,911, gain 2,048. 

Delaware. — Whig majority in the State, 21H. In 
1840, 1,U83. 

North Carolina — Wilis majority in the State is 
4,061. 

Ohio.— The vote for Clay is 155,113. Polk 119,059.. 
Birney 8,0f>0. 



New Vork, was such as we would like to have urged 
upou every congregation of ehnst aus in the !nn 1 lb- 
was not lengtiiy, but in. a, very forcible and impressive J 
manner spread belbre the | ebplc, their duties in 1 ifcr* 
ence to their min ster, and concluded bv' sayi.no but 
above all, let this Pulpit be free, urging with great pow. 
er the wickedness of trammeling one. who isansueiatde 
before heaven for the discharge of tho<high duties of a ; 
christian minister, who is bound to declare the whole! 
counsel of God-. . I 

On the' wholo the exercises-tbronghoiit were of the 
most solemn and impressive char icier, such as did lion, 
or to the heads and hearts of those who officiated, and 
the cause of truth. They will not soon be forgotten in 
Boonton. 



FALL AND WINTER 
GOODS. 

1 la ving- enlarged his Slore» is prfpareq\ to inform 
his old customers and the public generally, that he has 
just r< ceived a large .-took o iwi i. and winter cioous, 
and is disposed to sell for. ready pay, as" low as any 
othec More in the vicinity. Call'and axamine. 
Uoonton, " Nov. 2S, IBM. 



Huoplou lV<j0ib^gltm Tcn^pnancx Benev- 
olent Soa$y,~iW&f&& every' Muiiday eve- 
nii;$r in tiic Fcco Cliurrii. j£lt£lMltxfit$ 
President, 1 "red rick me, Secret a/.;/. 

Boontori Liberty Association — meets the 
first .Sat urday evening of every month. 
M. iM tiris. President. C. B. Nonis, See. 





nn w 





VOL. I. 



BOOFIOIV*, DECEMBER 31, 1844. 



T H E F EE E M A N 

\VtLt SF. PUCUSHED MONTI?!,!' BY 

JOIL'n GRIMES, EpfTOR and PidMiWoa. 
jBomiion, Moriis Co nfy, Xeto Jersey. 



fulfij her engagement. This lady resided twT) hundred 
mi. ! 'You: tl ■■■ plantation of Mr. C. -n.th" in 1 ' rior of the 
| State, and thith tilliam was despatched with the car- 
' riagi and horses to bring the expedted visitor. He was 
i obliged to wait a i -v. days for the lady, and while there 
' among strangers, and -with nothing but thought to ocu- 



pv dm, lie first formed the definite determination to es 
|cape, and make one effort to become a frer man. 



' T K H M a. j. -I !% 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numh< rs. 
10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

Ail communications must be post paid, our paper is j He was able in some degree to count the cost, and j ghiened and fainting Lucy, while he made bis own way 
published a' a peeuniarv sacrifice, and wc cannot afford | knew that if he tailed, a fate worse than death awaited j across the river; but when he reached the bank, he had 



iifiittediate neighboahood, they went for-a long distance 
up and ciowh the stream, until jusl a., day-brvak, iiicy 
resolved to make the desfie rate .stu mp. ;<• f-wirn aero;.:-, 
and if they perished, to die together. To do this, they 
w ere obliged to leave most of their few articles of food 
and clothing they h.id thus tar carried, and trust Prov- 
idence for :.ho supp y of their future wants. By mcred- 
ib.o-p*«?rtion& William succeeded in holding up ihe. in- 



to pay postage. 



• him; and his resolution was taken. But his wife scarcely strength to* throw hujpselt upon it. For seme 



I should he escape and leave her behind, or should he 
! seek the for South, and endeavor to find her, and make 
: her the companion of his Slight?' A moment he hesita- 
l ted. for the star of freedom pointed to (foe north; and 
j he knew not in what part bi the sca'e o s« -k his Lue\ , 
I but love triumphed, and the dav befcr he was to have 
ted id a gentleman bi high standing in the community, by | sla .., ed {<x homC) . he fled> iliav - n? no trace behind, by 
the benevolent friend a. whose house William first sto P -j wWdj his tfack niight be Covered. It was ci course 
ped in Pennsylvania, and they were afterward corrobora- ^ that'.he had gone to the north, and thus pur 
ted by Oiv who lute. ju»l returned from Canada, whtv 



From the Atlvocrlc of Moral Reform. 

The Grave in the Wilderness. 

The following narative, strange as it may seem "to the 
tastier, ts strictly true. The circumstances were rela- 



he had met wi h William, who was in a respectable bu- 
siness A; 're, an*t! had received the account from his ow n 
lips. 1 oy prove that "truth is sometimes, stranger 
than fictioli, Asa proof likewise of .love stronger 
than death, which nvny waters cannot quench., nor 
flood: drown; they may interest your readers. 

V/ tiiiam was a slave, belonging to the plantation of j , 
the Hon", V rri. C. oil Seizin" Carolina. He was a inui 
lato of :iiv" appearanc - and uncommon intelligence, and 
as the coa; i.n.an ci his master enjoyed many privileges 
denied to others of his class; he had formed an attach 
men: icr a young Quadroon, who was the personal a 
tentiant of her tmslfefes, and who had profited to the u 
moa- by the few opportunities aifoided her, so that m 
mind afflfd manners she was far superior to many who 
looked down upon her as a slave, with contempt. Her 
personal appearance was likewise, uncommonly attrac- 
tive, and poor William' soon found that ".though his at 
tad men:, was warmly ruurrt.-d, and she had bccon.t 
his wife according ;o he simple form recognized anion 
s'av s, his claims to the c hosen of his heart were net 
lib iv to He undisputed'. A gentleman (!) on a visit to 
his mastei sav the beautiful Quadroon, took a fancy to 
her, and by the payment of a large sum of money bt- 



jmreimr, alel • 
fat ' >." : but S constats foyer wasted her strength, and a 
■•aclrfn? cough told too ptaiuly chat her days were num- 
bered. For some weeks they jjurnoyed on, white her 
emaeiated'Yorm was frequently horn in the anns of her 
poor husband, until from sonjofo and farisruc he was 
compelled to drop the precious burden, and throw hhn- 

us;.'<i. I ui y was sens- 
ible that she was dving, and ber only remaining wish v as 
to reach a fr"c State, 'hat her last brea'h might be drawn 
.'"neath a fite* 4 sky, and w ith the blessed breeze of free- 
dom fanning her fevered brow. For this, sh- bore up, 
with a bburage and energy almost superhuman, but "it ■ 
w as not so to be. They had entered Maryland, and. were. 
::rul*ing in the prospect oi soon reaching Pennsylvania, 
y* hen her strength failed, and she became convinced 
..-.at her last Lour was rapidly approaching;. Thoy were 
in the midst of an extensive forest, far from ■he habita-' 

on of man., and this, which under other circumstances, 
would have aggravated their distress, was now the only 
olace ontheir misery. But who. can describe, or con- 
ceive, the aj-cnv of the heart-broken husband, as he 
razed on the fad"d form of the w ire of his bosom, the 
companion of his sufferings and toils, the being who was 
literally ail the word to him, and without "whom even 
jarodis'e v. odd. he a desert. Talc, on aciafed, but still 
'ovely, with hath her attenuated bands fond'y cTasping 
His, and her large dark eyes fixed on him with tea ten- 
der. comVlng expression of infancy, she lay like abnii- 
jed ro"d in his arms, calmfy awaiting the dr^ad summon - 
-•-, hich was to lefrtferhim a'ono. wi f hout one ray of bono 
or comfort from *he future. A'as ! he had not then 
learned to se«k consolation v hence aloe." i: can be <>•» 
rivod. Tbo bWsed book which brihgs life and immoi - 
••ditvio licht. v as <o him a sealed volume, re d '>.<> dfii 
i>,id evor guii'oc'" his feet to that dbm passionate Savior 
• ho wi*pt with Mary and Martha over the tomb of La;r- 
■ -us. v Who c?n wonder then, that his heart grew sick, 
and his brain turned round, in that dark hour, vhile 
images of tn^ past cam» thronging up before his mind, 
as if to mock h^ enruish. He remembered the ehiW- 
hood of his Lucy: the early love wh'cb inade ever lis - 
v»rv seom less bitter, and the few short months of v. 
d"d bliss, which had onCe beon his own. Then 
the memory of th" deep and hitter wrong — of avarice 
and lust, st"pping in b"<ween those v horn God hr,..\ 
joined together, end crushing human hearts With the 
relentless graso of despotic dower. He thought too 
the months of 'oil and suffering which had fop owe,*; 



suit was avoided by l»im, in his perilous thght. After 
some wei-ks wandering, he reached 1 Alabama, and gui- 
ded by that providence which watches over the friend 
loss, he. came at last to the neighborhood in which th" 
plantation of Lucy's master was? situated. Having mad-' 
acquaintance with a slave on the pu.mation, he conti 
ved to send w ord to Lucy ha. he was near, and to en- 
ourgge a meeting And what a meeting was that !! 
His hunger and wretchedness, his torn and bleeding fe- 1. 
his danger, his suite-rings all were forgotten as he clasped 
dial beloved and. long lost wife to his heart, and h arc! 
her whisper words of tenderni ss and pity. But alas- 

she was not free, and her a'\.:n:e :r. gj - be no r. -J m i w vx ^tly; e 

thus brine ruin on them both. She must leave him,hui 
before they separau d, a plan was agreed on by »vhio: 
fhev might daily meet, and he had told her his wii«. 
tiop«S iind projects, ' to which she listened w ; th a smile 
o atfor incredulity. It was impossible, she said, for 
h tn ;o travel such an immense distance Without dis- 
overy, and to" one who had bi-er. delicately brought up. 
lie perils and sufi«rings of sucn a High., a' such a sea 
Boo were appalling. He plead his cause with alt the elo 
nence of love, and the assurance =.at he must go with 
out her if she refused, wrung her heart. When she next 
visited William, her mind was- made up to accompany 



came her legal owner. True, she v as known to he th- j ^ ft . (>||ng - she saidj thatshe had ra ther suflcr a thou 
wile of William, who was devotedly attached to ^' >' ! .^.^ deaths- with him, than to b. again separated, and 
arid if. was known too that she was purchased as tne i y &e p()Wf . r of her present mas ter. In one week, 
intended parajnour of her rn-ter, who w as a iMrnf ' (! : s ^ ^ ^ad? alt "e dful Reparations, for them both 
man; but Wilham might soon consote .himself with an j ^ ^ {m the iand ofIibertV) gu5<i ,.; 

other, and the ft dings ot the- v:r -tched girl were not one . ,v u> 
taken into the account. Indeed ss a slave, what, rigl | 
had. she to feedings on the sultjocl? So she was tomj 

away from home and husband, and friends, and carri d 
, : ,, , „-.„. ill onvations durine he sad and weary months which wer 

bv her hew owner to Alabama. William locked up h: - kuJU "" , 

i ,. . ,. . i „„„, ,k«.„»t ' ocennied in' traversing the swamps & forests Oi the sou 
sense of wrong done him in his own bosom, and tnough , -i 1 ., , , .,.""■ „ , 

, , , , i i • . i hem States. All mtrht the poor fugitives travelled, anei 

his m«rrv laugh was huabeu. and his brow was always : ^•"■^ 1> - "V e n ' 

, , v , " . • • • '.i r -."u ; Inrinc the dav. faint and. 'oi' worn, thev lay conceal c, 

clouded, h, : attended to m» dun-. ss with the same iauh- ; - ,U), -B uu „ 1 " , ' /. ..... 

, c i-> . i • i • •> t'-e woo-l« hn-dlv darng to breathe, lest their hiding 

fulness and precision as before. But his sleeping am a t.-<- voo..». t.s.my u»..i j, , & 

wakin, droughts were alwavs full of one image-that of' ««* ***** kp ^ f~ T ^ Klrtd ca ^ W ^'j 
his d Led Lucy; 9 «para*ed from him foreVer, and com j food to Ehjan by th- agency of ravens, Supplied 
pellr d to forg'-t, in the arms of a stranger, the husban' 
who would gladly have died to save her from this dread 



north star," which has led so many pi! 
• tn-5 to hope ana happiness. 

I will not dw ell on the detail of their sufferings and 



hours thev lay there, utterU incapable of moving, and 
so completely exhausted in mind and body, that the fear 
of discovery ceased to operate as a stimulus to farther 
exertion. When at length the henuming Influence of 
cold, fatigue and hunger had in some measure past away 
they found; thgt the little wallet, w hich contained all 
their remaining provisions, was lost, leaving them total- 
ly destitute ot food, or a change of raiment. It was a 
moment of sore trial, but even then, they found conso- 
lation in the consciousness off strong menial afieetien, 
and the certainty tl.a* nothing but death' cou d . part 
them, for William was resolived, if retaken, to yie"W his 
libertv only w ith his life. From that day, the privations 
and sufii rings of the fugitives were increased ten foid; 
and poor Lucy, who bore them fell with heroic fortitude 
and unshaic ;i cor.rage, v. as evidci.ily diooping. She 



mode no < omr'bmit, aid ex< rtgd herself ever mor : an 



pelted to foWet, in the arms of a stranger, the- husbam | ->™ by means almost equally miraculous; and cok. an. 
who would gladly have died to save her from this dread were unheeded while they shared it together, 

ful fat- Could he not even now, rescue her? the ve Often, from their entire ignorance of the geography ot 



ry thought was rapture, but how was it to be accom 



j the States through which they passed, they took a wrong 



m almost in another world I direction; and after a Ion,: and (d iguing circuit found 



plisned? Alabama seemed to hi... 

and the tearful risks he ran in attempting to escape, were j themselves at the point from which they started. Often 
vividly present to his mind. Std the- idea haunted him j too, with alarm and horror ind,scnoabte, they heard thf 
continually, and while his sou! was thus agitated, an un- j deep baying of hounds in pursuit of some fugttiyes like 
cxpece d opportunity presented to caxry.his plan into j themselves, and trembled, lest at tl e nex moment they 
H.« master was away from home for the ! might dash in on" their r-.r -at, and .-ray them to their 
friend of his mistress who had been long | inhuman pursuers. A* one time, they cam- to a huge 
Dromisina her a visit, wrote to request that the carriage j and deep river, over which they could find no bridge, 

might k'.ent for her, as she was now in readines J and not daring to avail themselves of the terry m the , joyful reunion, arfof the patience and fortitude, rm.,ov • 



execution, 
winter, anel a 



which had sustained the partner of his flight, and made 
her voice to him as the voice of an angel. W unou.: one 
murmuring or reproachful word, she had endured a the 
hardships of iheir lot, encouraging and cheering him, by 
the buoyant hopefulness of her nature, in his moments 
of deepest depression. And now this cherised object of 
his lov« and care was dying — dying just as the goal was 
in sight, and they were aoout 10 enter ..hat land of free- 
dom, for which she had so pined, and which even in 
dreams -.vas always before her eyes. How valueless 
then, seemed to him the liberty which sue could not 
2>a'rtake ! How vain -a 1 die sacrifices he had made 10 
secure it ! While his hear! was thus wrung with an- 
guish, the sufferer revived, and after thanking him for 
the love and kindness which had been the blessing of 
her life, she entreated him to make no deiay uuor her 
death, but to hasten nis flight, lest even ..hen the pursu- 
er, might be on the tracis; and the cup of freedom be 
dashed from his lips ere he had tasted us sweetness. . 

'True to her unselfish, and affectionate nature' to the 
last, her latest breath was 'spent in comforting the poor 
mourner, who sat stupified with grief, long -after the 
spirit had fled, holding the lifeless body in hisar ns, and 
gazing on it with a look in which every emotion of the 
soul seemed concentrated. 

"There was darkness all within his heart, 
' And madness in his brain," 

During that lon<j\ long; nie;ht, in which lie was sensible 

O O / .90' 

only ot one overpowering, absorbing feeling of hopeless 
misery. But with the morning light, came calmer 
thoughts, anil as he looked on tne marble features of the 
dead, from which all traces of sorrow and suffering had 
vanished, he couid almost rejoice chat her pilgrimage was 
over, and she had found the rest 'of the grave. 

The day following the death of Lucy, was spent by 
the poor fugitive, on the spot where she' had breathed 
her last, and where her remains were still lying in the 
fixed repose of the sleep that knows no waking. VYnile 
he could still gaze oh the lifeiess^orm of his wife. W il- 
ium hid not feel himself utterly bereaved, but he re- 
membered her parting injunction not to delay his flight, 
and knew that one solemn duty remained to be perform- 
ed, before he took his departure. He must bury his 
dead out of 'his sight; but how was it to be done under 
his circumstances ? There was but one way — and with 
an aching heart, poor William scooped out the earth 
with his hands, on a side hill, to a depth which would 
rentier her resting place secure, and then prepared to 
deposit his sole earthly treasure there, to slumber till 
the heavens be no more. Once and again his resolution 
failed, and he turned away from the open grave, unable 
to commit the precious remains, without a shroud or 
coffin, to its cold embrace. At last, with the strongest 
effort of which human nature is capable, he lowered the 
body into the grave, and hastily covering it, ran from 
the spot without once looking behind him. 

He had gone but a short distance, when it seemed 
impossible to proceed one step farther, and an impulse 
which he could not resist, drew him once more to thai 
hill side where his Lucy w as sleeping. With maniac 
eagerness he tore away the earth that covered her, and 
almost felt as he gazed upon the body, as if his wife 
were given back to him again. For three days and 
nights, the poor fellow lingered about the grave, making 
several fruitless attempts to quit it, till at last, feeling 
•that he must soon die without food or shelter, he was 
Impelled by the natural instinct of self preservation to 
hasten his northern flight. He tore himself from the 
spot whieh contained all that he loved on earth without 
daring to trust himself with a single look. A few days 
travel brought him to Pennsylvania, and the first house 
he entered was that of a benevolent Quaker, who accos- 
ted him kindly; and bad'' him welcome to his roof. 

Poor William was toil-worn, and faint and sorrowful 
-still. had he met with refusal, his indomitable resolution 
would have borne him from the door. But the voics of 
kindness, so long unheard from man, and the feeling of 
security so long unknown, were too much for his shat ■ 
lered and feeble frame. He fainted iu-tantly, and fell 
to th ■ floor like one dead. The worthy family into 
which he had been providentially led, fed, and warmed 
and cheered the fugitive, and had the satisfaction of see- 
ing him in a few days able to express his sense of their 
kindness, and to give a narrative of his thri ling adven- 
tures. When able to leave, he was furnished with all 
necessary advice and assistance for th" prosecution of his 
journey. H is now in the British dominions, establish- 
ed in a good bnsiuess, and respected by a 1 ! w ho know 
him, as an upright and int"llig"nt man. But il is man- 
ifest to the casual observer that he has been a man of 
sorrow, and those who have heard his sad story, well 
known, that whatever objects may claim a parsing in- 
rest. his hear! is buri >d with his Lucv, in thai grave 
th" wild—ri" -s, where she sleeps in the dark and dis- 
t forest of eastern Maryland. • • ■ 



THE IVEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN, 

BOOxSi^ c^.i;»ii>^l. 3*1, 1844. 



meeting. *• •. 

The perusal of Mr. Freeman's article brought sever- 
al thoughts lo our mind to which we would like to give 
full expression, if time and space would permit, hut as 
— | :t is, we can only say a few words. Camp and throve 
Let us tiuo w oil the uwoit — cis a cobweb one at best, mee tj n gs have been held frcm time immemorial, and 
and the world will see through it. L will not do thus to aave ;i i wa y S been resorted to by the persecuted, those 
.alk like phiiosopners, and act like unrelenting tyrants , no have been prohibited the use of houses in w hich to 
to be perpetually .sermonizing, with liberty for our tex ,^ ot together, and speak their honest convictions, to ex- 
and actual oppression tor our commentary. , ose error, and projuulgate.truth. This was rendered 

Wm. I'nickiwy, of Maryland, lecessary 1800 years ago, when Jesus C hrist came to 

! i deliver his message to fallen man. He and all his apos- 

Inall things that have beauty there is nothing to man i ^ ^ ^ successorS) for a long time were compell- 
more comely than LIBERTY Milton. d ^ ^ intQthe streets and lanes the fields and forests 

- - ■ — - , .. - ! 0 pj. eac jj salvation to men. Those who undertook to 

ixposethe errors and corruptions of the established 
church in England, w ere driven to the same. 
We. direct the attention of the friends of Liberty in the John Wesley not only had to get into the streets the 
State, to the JNotice in another column of the Annual fields and woods, but in many cases had to do this pri- 
Meeting of the New Jersey Anti Slavery Society, to be vatelv. The Friends, who laboured for the same refor- 
held at Jersey City on Wednesday, January 22, 1845. matiom were driven to the same resorts. In short all 
Let every*Freeman in the State see to it that the no- i moral reformations have been brought about in (he same 
tice is well published in his vicinity, and then attend i way. Americans are always free in their sympathies* 
the Meeting, and bring on others; let us see it demon- j for those who suffered, and were driven to those neces- 
strated that the vital spark of freedom is no? extinct in ' ities in bv -gone ages, and equally free in denouncing 
our State. , their persecutes; and yet the idea occuivd to us, wheth- 

Slave- holders not being satisfied with incarcerating ! er the same spirit among the people of New Jersey was 
for years in loathsome prisons, many of our most wor- I not now driving the friends of the slave to think about 



THE STATE MEETING. 



thy and respectable citizens, Torrey, Burr, Thompson, 
Work &c. but they have now sentenced to "two years 
imprisonment, an innocent and respectable female; con- 
demned by slave-holders to confinement, in a Ky. Prison. 

Come to the Meeting. Let New Jersey put in her 
voice. Let the united indignation of the Free States 
roll over the South in thunder tones. Let slaveholders 
find that in their frenzy and desperation, they have rung 
the death knell of their detestable institutions. 

In this day of slaveholding arrognace and desperatiou, 
who can stay away from the meetings. From the vicin- 
ity of Jersey City to N. York, we. do not doubt that a- 
ble advocates of the cause will be there. The friends 
there wid provide "plain,, wholesome food and pure 
water" for those from a distance - • 



Anti-Slavery Camp Meetings. We believe that such 
meetings w ould never have been thought of, but for the 
fact that those who feel it a duty to "break every yoke 
and let the oppreesed go free," are denied the privilege 
of meeting together for the promotion of that object in 
the houses where they have the right to do so, and where 
other philanthropists are permited to assemble. 

Churches, public Halls, school houses, and all such 
places, are in New Jersey with very few exceptions 
closed against those who feel it a duty to labor for the 
slave. Time-serving Priests and laymen, brace them-' 
selves behind their church doors, and; say "you cannot 
come here, this is not the proper, place, you'll divide 
the church." Politicians say you must not bring anti- 
slavery into politics, you'll injure the party." &c. 

Our opinion is that ail Churches and political parties 
that will be divided by anti-slavery principles, ought to 
be divided, cut up, and scattered to the winds. Tne 
truth is we do not believe they are willing we should 
discuss anti-slavery principles any where. Had they 
the power they would not let us carry anti- slavery in 
our own hearts. If our rights (which have lmng been 



j^uireeiy of the N. Y. Tribune lays down the rule 
that no charge is toJje belived against any candidate for 
office, which is made too late to ado t him time to refute 
it. This is a good rule. — Signal of Liberty. 

A good rule we say, and wish Mr. Greelv would j wrested from us) to assemble in public places, aud dis 
live up to it a little better. I cuss the principles of human freedom, are not soon sur- 

. ' I rendered to us, we shall go fq»- anti-slavery camp meot- 

j ' ings. We will assemble under Heaven's broad canopy 

The article on our first page, "the' Grave in the] and there tell of the wrongs of the slave, and expose 
Wilderness" is recommended to the honest perusal of! the wickedfiess and hypocrisy of pro-slavery Priests 

every individual. It was not selected as a rarcjtem in j a,1(1 ' Pol,t,c,aMS - 

the history of slavery, for the details of that iniquitous, ^ At a regular meeting of the Boonton W. T. B. 
system, teems from beginning to end with Stick fruits. Society in theVree Church, Monday evening Ore. 30 
• Tyrants may frown, fools and' unfeeling! minds may 1844, the follow ing resolutions were un;niiinonsly 
point the finger of scorn, and politicians niay bluster; ' adopted. 

we are determined to go against slavery in all its forms, j Resolved, That recent developements have very much 
political'lv, morally; and in every other honest way, until ! diminished our confidence in the f Morris County T tin- 
man shall not be compelled to dig a gravs wilh no tools ! 1™°'' %* ie ty al ! (1 wc fed . 6 * wi " d to ll [ ok to s<>m0 
, ... , . , e . , V . ,. ., other organization for successful effort m Una cause, 

but his ow n hands, without a friend m the sohtarv wil- „, , • i i i 

, ,, ,. .» ■:' " j. . • >_ * ■ , Resolved, l hat, we nave iindimmshed confidence m 

derness, and bury his own w ife, through fear of the hu- ])rin( . iplpS) th( ,' great efficiency, & permanently bene- 
man Hyena's ot this free and christian country. We fi c ia] influence of the Washington Temperance Bencvo- 
rejoice to see the article in the Advocate of Moral He- ! lent organizations. 

form Slavery is oftevast system of legalized licentious- Resolved, That in the opinion of this Society, the 
ness. this species of wickednes exists there in its mos condition of things in this County in reference to tem- 

„ if i • , , . , c i •. | perance, demands the formation of a Countv Washing- 

cruel lorm;. and no consistent advocate ol moral purity 1 1 



can sav, "let it alone." 



ton Temperance Benevolent Society for this County. 

Resolved, That the Secretary transmit a copy of these 
resolutions to each of the W. T. B. Societies in the 
County, soliciting their aid, and the aid of friends of the 
cause generally, in this movement; and propose the 22 
Feb. next, as a proper time, am 1 Whippanv as a suitable 



,tnti Slavery Cntnp .flretiua. 

V\ e published a short time since an article from Mr. 
freeman, in whichAe suggested th" propriety of hold 

ing an anti-slaverv Camp meeting as weather became fil ' place for a convention to organize such a Society; aud 
. We intended to offer a few thoughts on that subject, w (> propose that a committee consisting of one delegate 
■ ,- • , ,. .. , . , ,' .r • from each society, meet at the house of Abinthnr D. 

Iielore this, but want ot tune has prevented. As the . T _ . •" . „«■ , o ~>„i l- d Yf 

' Lyon in Parsippanv, Jan. 25 at 3 o'clock r. M. y to 



State meeting will be held before we shall issue anotb 
er paper we think proper to bring 'his subject before 
the friends of liberty al this time, as it may be though' 
best to bring the matter hp for consideration at the 



make all necessary arrangements for the Convention-. 

Resolved. That these resolutions be published in all 
the papers printed in the County. 

Frederick Stone, Secretary. 



I 



We copv the following article from the Free labor harpoons have to foot this bill; lor all the guns and long! /W lkf*lkfJT /M T ~M/g~jni J71 rfl y 

, . .../„.v...i.„.i .x /-..-.i...- i-jj »....: . butcher knives thai have been used since Cain beat his «^*«/»VT *J •JllJEjMl* 1. JUJJ %W 



Advocate published at New Garden Indiana; .Beujamm 
Stanton Editor. We believe the Liberty Party papers 
ar ■ all in favor of peace, and regret that they do-not be- 
stow more attention upon that subject — We are strong- 
ly in favor of Peace, and think it is a thing that cannot 
v-.t, easily be carried too far. Friend Stanton's paper 
is much devoted, to this subject, and we should like to 
see his example followed by other Liberty Editors. 
The War-ship. 
Yes, there it is yet ! thai huge lazy leviathan, with 
a hook in his jaws, feathered out to float and rot within 
the ;i oU ' sweep of a chain cable. Great, pampered 



butcher knives thai have been used since Cain beat his 
brothers brains out, never earned enongh to pay for a 
charge of powder and shot. 

EZEK1EL HUMPHREY, JR. 



New Jersey 
jersev 



L.OOM .IT AT. 

We give the following extract oi a letter from Judge 
Cheeves published in the Charleston. Cqurrier. 

The letter as \Ve find published in the Liberty Her- 



THE ANNUAL MEETING of the 
Anti Slavery Society, will be held in Jcn.ev Oily 
onthe22d. of January next, at 10 o'clock A. M. 

Meetings will be held in the Afternoon and Evening, 
j and measures will he taken to secure the attfindaiKri , if 
| possible, of Alvan Stewart, Horace Dresser, Theodore, 
I D. Weld and others; and as the meeting is to be held 



aid of Warren, Ohio, is worth Ji, perusal of every j SQ near , Vw York) w e have no doubt of having, the at 
Northern man, we commend it to the special attention [t . ndallcc of m abie ;m( , trie(] of thc slav . 



of those people of the nor. h who think they have 
thing to do with slaVery. 

Any president, who should be insane enough to plant 



bully !*swaying and swaggering about in this beautiful j himself on abolition ground in the canvass, would band 
ear after year, when so many canvass- vvange a ! the Souih in a solid phalanx as one man against him, 
hard at work, like so many bees; indolent old j and ring the death-knell of his hopes The uni ted South 
]. . . e -_ e | with but a respectable party at Uie North, can always 



harbor, year after year, when so many canvass- w m< 
things are 

drone ! borrow a pair of wings-if you have none of your 1 ^ presklencv 011 the objecl 0 f its choice and 



o> n— and be off. Your room is better than your com- j tne representative of its principles 

panv, and is wanted for mud-scows and other better j «Qur past experience; ic.o, has show n that the 
gu< sts. Arn't you ashamed, you pussy old cormorant, | weight oi the South has. been heavily felt in the poltical 
to be living on poor people's earnings at this rate? | balance, and has almost always monopolized high led 



Why, you are worse tban Sinbad's giant before he had 



eral office. The southern or slavehoiding states had 
1 1 six out of' our ten presidents, (Washington, Jefferson, 
h,s eye* burnt out with a gridiron: his appetite was not j Madison? Monroe, Jackson and Tyler; of the Union- 
half as expensive as yours; for it costs the labor of tw o I tn( . northern or non-slaveholding Stales have given but 
thousand honest men a day to keep you in lounging or- | four, namely, John Ada:, is, John <$aincy Adams, Mar- 
der. | tin Van Buren and William Henry Harrison, and of 

Uncle Sam ! have you nothing for this big ship to do? j these four, the two last named were chosen bj a large 
Set it about something; it takes up to much room here, majority of southern votes, and the last named was a 
Come, these Boston folks will give it a job that will set native Virginian, filially e, v 
all its lazy hands at work to some profit to the country. 
They want a thousand ship loads of gravel to build new 



two first 



ests of the land of his birth — and even the 
named enlisted a strong southern su; port. 

Again, of the six southern presidents, five were re- 
wharves with, and your lubberly ship here is just the elected to their high office, and each occupied it for 
thing for it. Up with your anchor and be off; — it is the | eight years, and only one, the prea$Q incumbent, will 
best°freight it will ever get. Come, bid it spread its j have occupied it but four years, giving in ail to ihe 

i • j „ ;<■;< a,. v Q „,t t~ „™w« slavehoiding interest the possession a d control of the 

huge wings once, and see it it can fly. Send to some .-, 9 r . r • ■ c . 

6 ' , .. presidency for forty four years oui/ot tilty-six, while oi 

foreign shore for a load of mules, guano, or sheep-skins; ! thc four non _ sfayetoWiag { n side nis, airee occupied the 



or let it go a whaling, cod-fishing, or after mackerel, or 
follow any honorable and useful vocation Throw over 
board that black, savage freight of granulated sulphur 
and cast-iron, and ship a thousand hoes, harpoons, hand 
saws, or any implements of honest labor, and set those 
able and costly bands at work'. 

Uncle Sam, are those your boys swarming out like 
bees upon that forest of bare poles - un - suspendered, 
check-shirted boys? It is a bad way in which you are 
bringing them up, in the sight of this busy, working 



presidency but four years each, and one, the lamentet 
Harrison; only a little month, giving in ail to the non- i 
slavehoiding interest the possession ami control ot the 
presidency for only twelve years out of fifty -six. 

So of thc rhief justices of the Union, the South has 
had three, (Rutledge, Marshall and Taney,) and th< ; 
North but two; (Jay and Ellsworth,) out of the five j 
incumbents of that August Judicial seat. 

At this moment, the southern or slavehoiding interests 
enjoys a monopoly of high federal ofice — executive, ju- 
dicial, legislative, military and naval: John Tyler, a 
Virginian, is President, and his cabinet consists of John 



Dec. 29, 1844. 



James B, Grimes, £< c. 



world. We can't afford, sir, to have our boys used up c Calhoun, a South Carolinian, secretary ofstatc 
in this fashion. This is a great country, and they are George M. Bibb, a Kentuckian, secretary ot the treas 
wanted to hoe corn, dig potatoes, and go to mill, and to jury; John Y._ Mason, a V irginian, secretary of w ar 
the dif.trict school, and fill other honorable professions. 

Send to Africa, and ship a crew of light-footed apes 
that can skip from yard to yard, or bask on your fore- 
main, and mizzen tops, and we will risk the country. 
To be serious, old fellow, you are making us pay too 
much insurance upon this terra firma. and we can't 



.harles A. Wickiiffe, a Kentuokian, postmaster gen. ra 
John Nelson a Marylauder, attorney general ; and Wi 
Ham Wilkins, a Perinsylvanian, ( the single exception 
on the list,) secretary of war. Roger B. Taney, a Mary 
lander, is chief justice of the United States; Willie F 
Mangum, a North Carolinian, is president of the Senah 
and John W. Jones, of Virginia, sp> aker of the House o; 
, Representatives, and Southern men stand at the head o 
stand it much longer. Why, just look at it for a mo- 1 of th „ important committees of both branches o 
ment. Take vour slate and pencil, and foot up the bills | Congress. Winfield • Scott, a Virginian, is made gen-; 
of sost you have made poor people pay for defence for | al of our army, and James Baron, a Virginian, seni 
a few years past. There, you see, don't you, that a n ; officer of our navy, and to crown all, Henry Clay, 



that has been earned by all the merchant ships, and mud 
scows and schooners of the United States, for the last 
ten years, would not pay the bill of your bullying, swag- 
gering navy, during the same time? Uncle Sam, do be 
a man of common sense, now, and listen to reason: if, 
instead of r/e-ferfce, you will take, all your cannon and 
muskets and make a Virr/inia fence of them around your 
new lands, and row all your war-ships up Salt river, the 
broke; -- of this old Federal city will insure the defence 
of all tMs American country and commerce for $1,000, 
000 a year, and make a "speck" at that. O, you do 

defend this country witl a verigance, Uncle Sam! 

Pretty much in the way that the rostering sportsman 
defended the peasants cabbage-garden. 

It is the sober truth, sir; this single war-ship, ever 
since it began to swing around its anchor in Boston har- 
bor, has cost more money than the wholesum appropri- 
afed i r ligious and intellectual education of the 
city during the same time. Think of that, sir! and ev- 
ery dol li of it lias been coined out of the sweat of honest 
labor. Men that wield crow-bars, hoes, hammers, and 



Kentuckian is the Whig and James K. Polk, a Tonne; 
seean, the Democratic candidate for the next presidency 
securing to us the future as well as the past. If this be- 
not thij lion's shore of political power, words have los; 
their meaning — if this be not enough to satisfy the SouJ 
she must be insatiable indeed. 



Wailing anil Gnashing of Teeth. 

The following precioijs effusion is from the New 
York Tribune; we give it as a specimen ot muehrno; 
of a similar stamp. 

"You, Third -Party wire-workers! forced this man 
(Polk) upon us, instead ofthe only anti-Texas candidal.' 
who could possibly be elected. On your guilty heads 
shall rest the curse of unborn generations ! — Riot in 
your infamv and rejoice in its triumph, but never ask us 
to unite with you in any thing! We prefer Calhoun and 
McDuffic to you. They at least fight a manly battle, 
and win what they win fairly. You do the dirtiest 
journey work of a party which despises you, and vhich 
will pay you for the victory you have given them by 
trampling on your Petitions and robbing the Mails of 
of your papers. And you will have the consolation of 
knowing that you have deserved it all. — TV. Y. Tribune. 
Try again, Mr. Greely. 



MAKING PROGRESS. 

A Meeting of the Whigs was held in Newark 37th. 
inst., William Rankin in the Chair: at which there was 
much rejoicing over the whig success in New Jersey, 
and much lamentation over the defeat of Mr. Clay. 

An address and several resolutions were adopted; we 
can only copy the following. 

Resolved, That as men, as Americans and Christians, 
we protest against the anexation of Texas — manliness 
forbids the robbery of Mexico — regard for the memory 
of our fathers and the honour of our name, cause us to 
w ork against a crusade tor slavery — and a sense of duty 
to Him whose mandate is to preach deliverance to the 
captive* and suqpor to the oppressed, impels us, while? 
we resolve ever to uphold our Constitution as it stands, 
o s PUggle fofevei against the extension of slavery one 
fopi-beyond its present confines. 

Resolved, That our fellow citizens in the several 
counties ofthe State, be requested to assemble to ex- 
press iheir irreconcileabie opposition to the Annexation 
of Texas, and the extension of slavery institutions 

Glad, Gentlemen that you are not willing slavery 
should be extended "one foot beyond its present con- 
fines," though w e think if you believed this a "duty to 
Him whose mandate it is to preach deliverance to the 
captive and succor the oppressed," you would be w il- 
ling to do something to abolish it idthin "its present con- 
fines;" at all events, we think you would stop working 
in defence ofthe slavery within our own borders. 
. In 1835, a great anti-abolition-sout'nern-ceax-favor- 
meeting, was held in Newark, pursuant toa call publish- 
ed in the Newark Daib , signed by more than 500 names 
exclusive of 16 names of business firms. Among them 
we find the names of William Rankin, and three others of 
..e officers of the above whig meeting. The business 
inns read thus, Wm. Rankin & Co., Smith & Wright, 
-:c. They were "makers of shrines for the great God- 
i- ss Diana," and the craft w as in danger; but they did 
ne work faithfully, cleansed their skirts of all anti- 
•iai'ery and quieted the .South as far as Ihey were con- 
erned. 

Newark has been somewhat celebrated for its .slave- 
whip manufactories, we wonder if any ofthe officers of 
he meeting on the 17th. inst., have any interest in 
hat I usiness. But we rejoice to find slavery getting 
oo unpopular to be extended. Keep on gentlemen, 
a e'll get you right yet. 

From the Liberty Standard. 
PAINFUL INTELLIGENCE ! 

The following afflictive informatoin is, received, which 
■ i lis thc death of Thomas Morris. He was an emin- 
. nt and excellent man, and had filled many important 
offices with fidelity and ability. — He had been a Judge, 
member of the Legislature, U. S.' Senator, &c. But 
the most conspicuous act of his life was his hold and 
dble defense of liberty against slavery in the U. S. Senate, 
in its wily attacks by Henry Clay. He is the 'only man 
who has stood erect in that body for nearly' 30 years, 
and for that his party rejected him. We hoped he 
might be spared to preside over that body, redeemed 
from the slave power, but an all wise Providence has oth 
rewise ordered. Let his spirit be embraced by those 
who yet remain to carry forward our great Hraven-or- 
iginated cause. The Philanthropist says : 

Death of Thomas Morris. — It is with melancholy- 
feelings we annouuee the decease of Thomas Morris. 

He died suddenly, last Saturday morning, at his resi- 
dence, near Bethel. We had the pleasure of peeing 
him in Cincinnati, a day or two before, iu apparent vig- 
orous health. 



\ 



POETRY. 

From t2ae liberty minstrel. 
TME FOGK VOTER'!? SOXG. 

Air— , ( 'Lncy,ti>'ng." 

They know 'hat I was i.oor, 
And the th 'is t that i was 



Fn m The Tc noerance Journal. 

Said Experience of a Drunkard's Wife 

W , Northern New York, Or!. 13. 

! Hev. Me. Marsh. — Iuould desire w.th mv wh le 
i hea t to ijo some ttiiog for th< glorious cause of Tern. 
I per 'nee. There s much ,)<» be don- ; but my abiiin is 
small. I will simply give a few facts of tny life, cou- 
! u'eete \v h inlemnerance. I was a y-«uug. artless 
igiti.au 1 iguoraut as to intemperance. Twenty- two 
years tt/i vi goo* inn. Eternir'y since I maim, d him at 
[whom 1 shall. sneak. He ■> is not a drunkard 'hen 
hut an i li'u il drinker. liy way of apology, 1 must 
sa< wo a 1 h d our bitters, Jhere was io light!! I was 
so ign»rant as to think if once, I asked bun, lor my 
sak he r.nu d tit once leave off But, mistaken gir. ! 
■ u.ued at .e.-e; ill mime hopes blas-e I ; ail ..tie sun- 
shine of ho e atpace clodded over. I ivatc ed bim 
closely, and uhe the dr. ad re litybn kc ippti my mini 
' it was almost to much to me to b' ar. f womd sit u 
n j^hts to waiehyhis return and 'he-jp !<ia meals war n, 
b i t last go to; my Weepies* piliow; t> moisten It, with 
; my tears; and w < n he e.me, he won!-! excuse himself 
in some sra <• H. manner that Would be <|n te saisfact- 
I ry. Thus passed mouths and years. At leuh we 
I moved in'o the w.-od:' as we called it, ami cleared up a 
j new farm and alu,o-t paid for it. We were well t0 
for new he-iuue-s. I think w.- had nine go d I a-'s 
I of goods ud -rovisio s and will) then a barrel of wh s- 
j ! 1 have noC« >rds to convev toany one w.. .t l..rk< d 
[in hat barrel SnffieHtosjs.it was uukindness in 
jail its v ricd forms. He would lea • e mc with my 
li'tl" abe niotrt after n-ght, till the' midni»nt hour; an- 
;(requ t<v al' eight. He ueglsc d his work, n.h.-ed 
so uuch a t our property was all levied .,n, and our 
j contra -t b . a e v i i. and. in tWo years, farm was sol 
from, under .is. and wc were turn d nto |he street, not u 
i home to I v ottrhc id- in We moved toa iitile coimtn 
> T ge, thci-e my sorro<" s were doubled, dmpant 
ud * lie love.oi'stro . • d in m .de him forget his inn."- 
t babe and Millermg i'e. We nin d asmal house 
j and I was almost fotgo ten. Th': long winter evenings 
I »•«";'• s ent bv my husband at t'.c grog shop or tavern., 
i ' ile 1 was alone in a strai g place. However. 1 i«rk 
j d light and da f to sap aort <\ lam ly; while he to. k 
< he money : hat 'belong o me and Jraitk it up No 
jt ' ° 0! ' — "oprovtsi'-n- ; sometimes he would s 11 wl a - 
is, to sv* ,r,en and w men with al le d rtv blackl V T 0:1 ' ,!)e "c asi ui, to get hqnor, he 

pipe in he, r mm) th 5 p tt.u, ..Wj -ud puffin- oui 7° ? t Z! °' ^ 1 was sick, but I seni my 
-smoke, .ike a walking s>am eni be** , ,e n "- v ' Ith mae ' Utte '-t» g"tsom- meal, while his 

ither was gone a fiumberpt days. M n a time would 

■ ie:ve me in the joining without <ihe stick of woo 
my door. We i.Wouid heu of him • oui poo c .Id 

e., woule cry but • oth ns> woul.l move ni m. Some 
t,me«.he wdildsiaj fi e, six. and . v-u < U en days, 

O one occasion i>e had hi* h-.se, harness uid wag- 
aa ken. 1 had :o g. and ,. a . for h w skv arid; ei 
e wagon. Mora hau once h' has come home ire 
iea,ded w.thpui mittens, or p..c!<et-hook, or hn.dk»»- 
chief. Once he nari seventy pounds of sausa es and 
t n dollars ii ci, .ri^'e; he we t o market and to k ■ >y 
itlrgtrlw th bin., and either all ugh iong iu the v ill- 
e; tne next day sft- ca chome alone^ainl a»ke - t- 
a her com, ?" a--d burn, into t- ars. I ha a ae six 
•ve ks old, a d t a, very - old; ;he last of Noveliih r, 

■ mo hei went h.h.i m 1" and hm ; d a h-.rse and cii • 
ior just as the sun \Vas si ki g be ind he lest.-rn hor- 
rizo' ; we started or th- ^e, and when we gottber 

tuund him n a ily diunkjh" g**rve me hree -hill, gs 
nd I iv* at o the mil mi b.. ght some c ar-e fl ur v . 
tthi there • nd .ca e lisia ce of live mils/th 
v bai, we turind o\er— he horse an uoni 



as 1 ; ; 

They th nigh' that I'd endure 

To be covered i'h d sgr ce; 
Thev thQright me of tiieirtxibe, i 

Who ou li tliy lucre float, 
Si th . . offere'i me a bribe 

For my vot'-, boys! my vote ! 

U shame on ury betters, 

Wh • wo dd my conscience buv ! 

Bui I'll not wear theii fetter-, 
No| I, indeed, NO T I ! 

My -vote? It .s ri"t mine 

To do b itn a> I will; 
To c a 4. iik pearls, to swine, 

To these wa'iowers in ill; 
It is ury eountr 's due, 

And ni :iv>- 't, • hile I can, 
To the honest and the me, 

Like a man, like a m .n ! 
O shame, &.c. 

'JN T o, n ., I'll hold my -vote, 

A- a treasure and a trust, 
My dishonor none shall ouote, ' 

When I'm (iriftgle<J t with 'he dust; 
And my children when I'm gone, 

Sh ill be .-trengt ie end by the 'h-ught, 
That then- ia er wes, not one 

To be bought^ to be bought , 
0 shame, &.c. 



Irom th- Temp ranee Journal 
Wh- re is the good ofsmokin? —and 



ow nasty 



The p actire ofsmoki • is productive «findojene; i 
opens the n. res r> ilu head t roat, neck and chest. »nd 
then going rnrothi cold, vour pores are sudden:\ cln- 
eed — hence a'ise disorders ot the head, throat, • 
lungs. 

'■Thetfse of toba-co." saj's John We .fey, "is an 
uncleanly and unwholesome self-iDtlulger.ee;. .and th 
more cu-tomary it is, the ...ore resolutely s uld you 
break ofi'ft>m ever degree of thai e- flcustorhJ?; "S u ■ 
taking," cou in-e.- he, '<ie a sill , nasty, dirt* rustoiv; 
a vile bondage, which we shoul ! break at one ." 

Dr. A In iu CI <rke 4n s: Th - c mmon use'f o 'sn T 
has a direct te 'der c to dry up >he brain, em ciat th 
hody, enfoeb'e the memory, and destro iji a grea 
measure the dedicate sense f - raellimr — !■. prod c- 
po dexies, ab-cess s, consijeipt ons, e neer on ibe lip 
and innumerable other liseasees." " * * * 

If is an uncl-aulvb 'bt; tvitat s 'he o'srans .fsm ' 
taints the breath; wentten- the -ight >■. wfthdrn - in - t 
humors fr -m t e-ves: impairs the gene oHv ur n « 
d-rs breilhin- diffi uli, deur vw he appetite; and 
taken in , und nee ;rts mm the -tomac and injures , ' 
a high d.'gre- th<- organstnf di • stio ." 
Let none begin to smoke, who nevgr s eked ' ef re. 
An.: th .se who us- d to sin k • now «m ke .NO MOK f 

' l am an abolitioui.-t. but I (oni like carivineit inf 
pel it cs." } 5 

Well,takr stnver out** p litics, ^d we wont ca- 
rv antt slavery n. W. Citizen 



CFNSUS OF LIBERIA. 

The t"tal population of this colony, in 1 34ft. was 
2S5H; of this po ul . i. u fi l5'u-ere children bom in the 
eo'ony. The avenge annual iimNa' ty is about four 
percent. The first prnigr n s ir>ii r t ere • lc< U 
t wenty lour ye i s ago. Churches 23 coe-mmiicnnts, 
Americans; IW14, reeap uri d AM iin-1 6. Airiea' ; 
total 148 i. Sehoos lt>; schoTais, A heri< nu, 370 Af- 
i ueaus in.-, total 342.. Convicii-.n.s— M u ,|er Uid- 
uappina I, mrglary 17, grand larceny 1-7. petit lar- 
ceny it-,1, other oiie..ces47. * * 

A- - e a as wte n-.w ecollect' a' leas' mie third 'nore 
pers ns have gone there fro ■ this country thun can 
now be fo md there, iucl tiding the increase of ii years! 
Liberty Standard. 

Li ie iai- said to h ive an e.xte t of '\ - milssoti the 
Seaci ast, and according io the accounts ot the c.- ioni- 
zat o iis-e, we would suppos that it was dmost om< eon. 

inued se.tlement the wh de e.xttJe.t, filled up with flour- 
ishing Tow s ..nd Vfilag.s. There., Monroyiu.Ed.na, 
Louisiana, Bass , Cove, Cape Pal.mas. Cal.-lwe 1 Bex- 

eyi VJiilsburg, S-oekton, Mars all, Green. He. .New 

Georgia an others, hi.-h aie Hour s . d on ,.aper in 
gfeat style, an I yet the whole population is only 2:3m, 
The average annual deaths st ted at lour p. r cent, 
is 94 in a popuUtoh of2»50{ The de tbs take iHthu 
increase bv births, and one thffdol tne emi rau.s. A. 
•'grave-j id" truh and vet it swallows the .. nvo- 
lenceefal -g port ioii of American Chris- atisj in ref- 
ei ence to the col. red population of bt se United Stales'. 

fhe Col..- izatiou Societv was-oga i.-ed iu .,?i;6, 2-s 
years ago. and we believe has evpe tied more than naif 
a Hitliion ot dollars. Call it bcnevbknceW siw y'., wd 
say, w-tn such oimageous misnomers; \ et the advo- 

■ates.-iths hiarilesa sc en.e of exp atriati -n. hav irom 
th. first, and are still, among the most mvetera.e. Qfiipo- 
sers of immediate »ina. cipatiou. 

We are unable to u ideisland how it is tb'nt'goo ' men 
can b. so uelude i as t 0 run after & extol this d. testab e 

ro slavery sehetne. 



LIBERTY MINSTEEL. 

A few copies of Cork's Liberty Miuslivl an for 
sa c at ihi- office. 

This is superior to any thing of the kind we have 
seen and sh add be in t e |>ossession of every one ihat 
loves good tiusie, -md loves to make a good u c of it. 
P- ice, 44 cents. 



nd we ere h i 



Congreg:itiottalism and 
Church Action: 

WITH the PRINCIPLES of CHRISTIAN UNION, 

BY JOHN KEEP, 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. 
This is the title of a Duodecimo Volurm ju>i publish- 
J, ein a'faitbful exposition of thejustj) wekuecele- 
siastical bod es, the rights of iudivid ml meuubi rs and 
t e evils ef Sectarianism. It is a work tbj» - „h be 
r ad by every man and woman in the land A few cop- 
i s may be had* of Rev. Henry BeieVo, B o io. " 4 K ... 



tr m 



. 11 honsi?: et.i 1 



TROOfS OF THE REVOLUTION— The 1 m' r Of sold 

iersfuraishfd tiy each section .ftiie c.uutrv is as fpl 

By New England, 
B.t the M ddle States 
Bv the Southo States. 
Th*; ivhul. numb, r of me 



117.141. 
66,57 i. 
57.279. 

fnrnfel ed bv South C..ro 



iin*, 7,447, v/hile Massachusetts turn shed o7,i07 



oug die deep snV.wt the fiist house; t ey got u 
audg toarh .rse, ud we. en he est of thv \\!U- qu it- 
omf'o,- tabic. 1 iititl- aeacak i,| the Hour, w'.iieiny 
ooor a.otuer 'ck ome h. horse. M> husBii"d we 1 
10 gel so a. flour two da- s bef.re. 

. wri e th. se injjuto .e. % on lui w .om.- hiir: ol 
j.y tie U Howine tvtm itit.un. erance I t ke a d read 

ithgivatcouif.u- ih« .Journal of he Uni.m: Ilov t 
he r u ,.t the. tn ,. erance cause is oiog in of er la 
r s. an ow oth-i annUes are finding relief. In th 
name ol ma«y . -le r omen sum ring the sunn thai 1 
sutii r. I ,i-k ha: t e I -cense systi m ma he abolished. 

There is o other w-.y to reiortn a b ref eid drunk 
ardonyt du a,,; th. license system, and impo - a 
h. a y penalt 01 all ., ho will t en si:!! s ritous liq 01 . I 
Our ea thly h.ippin s- now d,epe dsoii tin law do. g 
w ay th- ,sa of uox eatiny drmks rom .he ia d. 

The sir fc g < , 11,, dou, t, w ill be .. Jiard 0 in , h u per- 1 
se- ere and .1 id b a«- c - n plishtut, and (I oiisands »il 
r.se up and cull you blvssed tf>i your exo. lions. 



FALL AND WNTIER 
GOODS. 

D. C. JVORRIS, 

Having eulnrged Kfs Store, is pru pared to i-iform 
is ol customer's and the p bli'c ge. er.llv. that he has 
st r ceivd a arge -tr ek of tali, and winter g .. ds, 
<n' is d-sp-sed to .-11 for ready m»v, as |„ w as any 
tHer vtor in tie vicinity. Call and e a- due. 



BoontonJ 



1844. 



fimntort ' lashing 'tyn T:mpcmrm B>-„cv- 
olent Society. — rneets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church John Maxneld, 
President. Fredrick Stone. Serrrtaru. 



liwntott Liberty Association, — meets the 
first Friday evening 0 f every month. 
M. Evans, Preuidcnt, C B. iNouis.-^r. 





EEMA 




VOL. I f 



BOOST OX, JANUARY ,] i, 1S45. 



THE FREEMAN 



WILL gl£ PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GIJIAJES, Editor and PRor-KU.ToR. 
Iloonton, Moms County, New Jiiwey. 

T E R M S. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum,. or far 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 

SIXTH. ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NEW JEK- 
SEY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

W.e 'nave again come together to record, the transac- 
tions of another year in the history of the New Jersey 
Anti-S'avery Socibty; to take a review of tho past, and 
learn lessons to direct us in the futuje. 

Six years have passed away since the Society was 
organized, and if we' then felt . the necessity of toiling 
for the advancement of human freedom in our state, the 
experience of these six years labor has abundantly con- 
vinced us that we were notdeceived. — We have learned 
that we have nqt over-estimated the alt-controlling in- 
fluence, and the all corrupting power of the slave sys- 
tem. We have found it entwined around almost every 
interest of Church and State, as well as almost every 
other interest of Society. — It rides forth with restless 
effort to claim and maintain supreme dictating power — 
it has lashed the public presa of the State into its ser- 
vice, and with few exceptions, it has closed the dqors of 
even our school h, ouses and public halls, and almost 
universally holds the keys of the professed churches of. 
God. It has put forth a mighty, and hitherto success- 
ful effort to hinder human action, and done all it could 
to fetter human thought.— rlt has made it an exceedingly 
difficult, and in some cases a perilous business to advor 
.cate the doctrine of human equality, as, set forth in the 
Declaration of American Independence, or to yield obe- 
dience to the imperative commands of Qod, in dqing to 
others as we wqqld have them do to us, and in laboring 
to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. 

This is indeed a dark picture of things, in reference to 
the slave question in our state; but the labors of the 
past year have prayed that there is a sprinkling pf true 
and genuine Abolitionism in eyery part of the {State, 



I and he received no encouragem tu from the clergy, 
j »Ve believe by persevering effort, much may be accom- 
! plished in these counties,. — -In the Southern parts of the 
I Siaic, there are no organizations that we know of, but 
we are gratified to team that there is much kind feeling 
ind individual action, we have reason to believe that 
y organized effort, the friends in this part of the Sta < 
w outd <to much to facilitate the progress of the cause 
here, — In the Eastern counties, the cause is regularly 
hough slowly progressing. 

The time is at hand however, when we think many 
obstacles will be out of the way, and in these counties 
a more rapid progjess will be made, if the friends of 
freedom are not recreant to their creed. 

Tin-: new ceNSTiTi'Tiox. 
New Jersey originaily had a Constitution that made 
no distinction on account of color, and recognized all 
inhabitants, under a property consideration, living in the 
county where the vote " as claimed one year, as citi- 
zens entitled to the right of suffrage; — but under an ex- 
planatory act of the Legislature, her colored citizens 
have: been entirely disfranchised for a great number of 
years. 

Within the past year, a convention has been held, 
and a new constitution adopted, which found the ines- 
timable right of suffrage upon the color of the skin, and 
this cuts off entirely the colored people of our State. This 
Constitution was adopted in Convention with but one 
dissenting vojee, and that was not witheld on account of 
these odious cutaneous distinction. We regret to say 
that when it was submitted to the people of the State 
tor final adoption, it became the fundamental law of the 
State by default, only about 24,000 votes being polled 
from among 75,000 voters in the State. 

It is really mortifying to us as Jerseymcn, to feel thai 
5S of her citizens can spend six weeks in Convention, 
and then publish to the world as the result of their uni- 
ted labors, in the middle of the nineteenth century, a 
document that strikes down the Declaration of Ameri- 
can Independence, and perpetuates these odious distinc- 
tions, which have long rendered us ascoff'an*} bye-word 
among the nations of the earth. 

This Constitution, as much behind the age as we be- 
lieve it to be, and striking down as it does, seme of the 
most important principles of human rights, still in the 
opinion of many, it emancipates the small remnant of 
slaves in our state, from the actual bondage of chattle- 



ship. We will not say whether this was the design of 
which we believe will yet become fully developed, and . ° 

J I ilstramers, or whether it was the result of accident, this 

is not material for us at present to decide. 

New Jersey has'upon her Statute Book many of the 



er'e long produce an. entire regeneration. We have 
found genuine anti-slayery men whope we did not before 
kuow they existed., and belieye the labors of the past 
year have considerably increased the number. 



most abominable slave laws, and if the opinion referred 
be correct, then laws are rendered null and void 



At the last annual meeting, a resolution was adopted, , . i k , , . r c , , , .. 

, w , 1 . ' i and the colored man is free as far as he can »e, wink- 



authorizing the Executive Committee to employ a suit 



he has wrested from him those fundamental rights, 



able a^ent to labor in tho State for the advancement of - 

o H i without which he must feel himself, as he undoubtedly 

the cause; in accordance with this resolution, the com- 1 . , , . , . 

' - ns ' is, a degraded ana oppressed being, 

mitree employed Jaeqb L. Brotherton for about four . , . . . . , c . 

1 J " • . . . I At the last semi-annual meeting of the Society, a re- 

mon'.hs in the Spiring and Summer, and his labors have , . , , , . .. ..' . „ . „ 

' . , T , ,, . ,„. . solution was adopted, appointing a committee to collect 

been suspended during the if all and W inter for want ol , . , ... , . 11 ° . 
- 1 • . I funds, and bring this matter before the proper courts 

nieans .u pay. j for decision, so that our colored citizens may know 

Hi., labors have been mostly confined to the counties j ■ wh<>ther thoy are mejlj and own themselves, or ^ e 



of Sussex, Warren, and Morris. The labors in Warren 
have resulted in the formation of a county Society. 

In the Western counties of the State, little ojf n,o ef- 
fort had ever been made to dissemminate anti-slavery 
truth, but individuals are fqund in almost every village, 
who are willing and anxious to have the subject fully 
discussed, though, they are not numerous enough to 
frown down the opposition of others, and get suitable 
places to hold meetings in. All that could be done 
was in small congregations, in private dwellings, occa- 
sionally in a school house, and sometimes under the 



trees, — churches were invariably closed against him,}'"*' Umt ^ indicate a speedy overthrow of that sy»U raj 



the property of others.— Nothing has yet been done, we 
believe towards carrying out. the spirit of this resolu- 
tion. 

As the means in our hands have been so small as to 
exceedingly limit the operations of the society in our. 
State, we roust bring our observations en this part of the 
subject to a close, and proceed to take a view of the 
cause, as it has progressed in our 

Nation and the World. 

In taking a broad surv >y, and comparing what is past, 
w ith the present state of things, v o feel that the sign 



which not only chattelizes, hut brutalizes a farg^ por- 
tion of our country men, and renders insecure our whole 
populaHon.«=-The developernents of the past year fiasve 
increased in our views, if possible, the odious deform- 
ities of the whole slave system, while it has showed in 
new and more clear lights, the folly and wickedness, the 
madness and desperation of slaveholders, and- the. mise- 
rable subserviency of pro-slavery men. 

No sane man can look at the reckless and terrible re- 
ports to which the ad> qcates of the slave system are 
driven, without feeling that their peculiar institutions 
are tottering to their foundations, and are syon to be 
numbered among the things that were. 

In briefly reviewiugthe past year, we will first notice 
the progress of the principles of Abolitionism in some of 
the ecclesiastical bodies — The most important of lh< se 
is the action of the General Cofnerence of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. Although it is denied by the lead- 
ing members of this body that it contained scarcely an 
Abolitionist, yet it is admitted that they are driven to 
the necessity of making a show at least of deposits a 
glliye" holding bishop, in order to save the Qhuieh from 
being divided and scattered to the w inds. The length 
of time spent in the discussions,,and the feeling devel- 
oped an the occasion in that body, shows plainly that 
they dare not refuse to give this subject a serious consid- 
eration. In this case we have abundant proof that anti 
slavery discussions have had their legitimate influence, 
and that the principles of human rights are making irre- 
sistible progress, and must e're long be recognized by 
every individual who claims the respect due to the chris- 
tian- and philanthropist. 

As another illustration of the progress of anti-slavery 
feeling in the Church, we cannot omit to mention the 
acuon of the third Presbytery of New York, in elec- 
ting the R.'v. Theodore S. Wright, a colored member of 
(hat bod v, as moderator for six months. Abolitionists 
a few years ago were mobbed for thus noticing-ouB fel- 
low beings when thev happen to have a skin "not col- 
ored like our own." We claim these,, with numerous 
cases of church action in favor of equal rights, to which 
we cannot now refer, as some of the fruits of the labors 
of Abolitionists in the anti-slavery cause; and feel that 
we ought to thank Gqd for the past, and press forward 
with increased seal and encouragement for the future. 
We can go forward rejoicing in the belief, that while we 
are laboring for the emancipation of the slave, we ar<j 
carrying out principles under which every other good 
cause must be . advanced, and the christian 'church' re- 
generated arid purified. 

Among the many evidences of the onward progress 
of free principles, we shall briefly notice the fojlowi,- - 
The wicked desperation qf the. slaveholders, in win, 
they betray the weakness of their cause, is, strongly 
manifested in their determination to enforce their heat, 1 , 
eirish and barbarous laws upon all who come ■• i-.l, , 
their borders. , when suspected of putting into fexercfei 
even in the most trifling degree, their sincere sympa 1 i. . 
for the oppressed people of the South. The slaveholders 
of the South cannot carry this practice much further 
without securing the United indignation of all .parties a 
the North against them, and we are not certain but £ha 
they have already done enough to secure such a res-jl 
We cannot. believe that the repeated indignities coin'mi' 
ted by the South, upon the free and respectable in! .ah 
itants.of the North, the imprisonment .of man v of ou 
best citizens , under the- most .frivolous pretences, and 
mere forms of trial, that are totally. at variance With 
every prim-ip! of justice, under circumstances that ef- 
fectually shut all justice out of the question; can much 
longer be continued, without an outpouring of Northern 
sentiment and feeling, that will effectually veb e 
Soiithr>rnrnsolen<4*. and tWrh Southern men that their 
ro^ant dictation; and bacbWous eiue-ties a . no. « 



I 



wajd to be submitted to. 

Thompsen, Burrand 'Work, three % ; ery worthy citi- 
zens ci Illinois, have been sentenced to 12 years im- 
prisonment in the Missouri penitentiary, charged with 
directin"" an enquiring fugitive toward the'land of liberty. 
It is said they were all in company together, and that 
but one of them gave the direction so anxiously solicited, 
by pointing to the' iNorth. f< It was not even plead that 
tht; fugitive escaped, but under laws enacted for the 
perpetuity of slavery in this boasted land of liberty, a 
Missouri Court has sentenced them to 12 long years of 
confinement with common felons at hard labor. Three 
years of the time have already rolled around, and no 
manifestations of kindness or sympathy have ever yet 
been made by the people of that State for them, and 
they and their families of suffering friends are doomed 
to all appearance to struggle on, nine long years more 
under these cruel inflictions. 



friends, and the friends, of downtrodden humanity, on 
the recent repeal of the gag rule in our National Con- 
gress. This is truly a great victory, and should fill us 
with encouragement to go on. The tenacity with 
which slaveholders have held op to this rule for many 
years, proves how important they considered it to their 



and what chance will am others have under like cir- 
cumstances. They have been tried before courts com- 
posed of individuals who traffic in human flesh, or are 
the defenders of that traffic. They with the jurors and 
witnesses have in most cases a direct interest in the 
question, and that interest invariably requires the con- 
demnation of the accused, — all have an interest of! cause- 
greater or less extent in the punishment of those charg- j 1 his bulwark of oppression is broken down, and we 
ed with offences against the peculiar institutions of the ' nia y soon expect the subject of slavery discussed in all 
South. Besides this, there is a public sentiment to j ' te lengths and breadths. 

overawe, and prevent the due course of justice. Then-j A Committee of the Ohio legislature has recently 
add to this the immense bills of cost, which in most ca- j reported a bill to that body, for the repeal of the black 
ses make it impossible for an accused person to maK<= ! laws, which have disgraced the statute books of that 
any defence, unless friends at a distance interfere and j State. In short we feel that the Legislatures of the 
contribute the means. . , j free states are very nearly prepared to act on all sub- 

Miss Webster states at the conclusion of her letter, j jeets appertaining to human liberty as becomes rational 
which was written some time before her trial, that her j beings. This is owing to a more healthy public senli- 



lawyer's fees amounted to $750, and made this aston- I ment, brought about by the numerous anti-slavery dis- 
The Rev. C. T. Torrey, a citizen of Massachusetts, j ishing declaration, if anything about slavery can be as- j cushions in those states, and it gives us grea* cause for 
charged with aid in" a few fclldw being- to the land of \ 'omshing, that such was the state of public sentiment, j rejoicing, that the same discussions are already going 
freedom, where they might enjoy the privilege of cwn- j <-hat lawyers did not . like to risk their reputations by j on in' some ofthe slave states. Delaware, Maryland, 
in? themselves, is doomed to six years imprisonment in j pleading her cause,— that is, to plead the_ cause of an \ Virginia and Kentucky are fast "developing a strong an- 
Mcryiand, a! hard labor, without any hope of rescue, innocent and resgectable female: How entirely desti- J :i-slavery feeling.— Delaware has her fre;;uent public 
but. hi an overpowering expression of public sentiment tute of every clement of justice are these Southern discussions, without molestation, and Virginia -has hc-r 



at the North, such as will effect an entire revolution at 

South. iT^WBr^'iuiW'/lt • ni If -* * ■ * 

Jonathan Walker, another respectable citizen of Mass. 

has been punished by branding, the pillory,* fine and im- 
prisonment, and is now still confined in Pensacola. 

John D. Lane, a colored man, is going through a 
twelve years imprisonment in a Virginia penitentiary, 
charged with befriending a fellow being under similar 
circumstances. 



Courts! 

We are clear in the belief that they were all fount! 
guiity before trial, and that this business will continue 
until the United -.North shall arise, and pour forth On< 
voice of burning indignation upon the South for these 
multiplied outrages. 

Besides the interest which we are bound to feel ami 
exercise in all cases of on/raged humanity; wc hav>> a 
direct interest in the cases of Waiker at Pensacola, and 



citizens that dare walk up, and opeidy, in^he presence 
of slaveholders, exhibit their abolitionism at the ballot 
box, which to slave holders is the mosl.territa- sort. 

Slaveholders have found it lately exceedingly unpop- 
ular as well as unprofitable, to pursue fugitives at the 
.North, and the panting slave can now litid a secure rest- 
ing place in almost any part of any of the free states. 

'In short w*; feel that a rapid change is going on \o t 
favor of freedom, and that we can press forward with 



Very recently the Captain of a vessel belonging to Bush at Washington, who are suffering under United I our hearts full of encouragement in the work— and with 

New Bedford, in Mass.. sailed from Norfolk' in Virginia .States, law. Wc.as Jerseymen, and belonging to the 
After b->in» some i mc under wav , he discovered a slavt |g»«*t confederacy, cannot innocently remain silent in 
concealed on board, and immediately returned to Nor-'i *™ cases. While wc do continue inactive, the guilt 



folk, and there surrendered the slave and the steward ci 
his owh vessel, whoiwas cast into prison. He Hassmei 
bad his trial, and been sent to the Penitentiary, We do 
not know the particulars of this case, but we think, in- 
asmuch as no crime known to Massachusetts law had 
been committed, but rather an act of humanity obeyed, 
the citizens of New Bedford should put the brand of 
public odium on the captain of .that vessel; and that . 
should be held responsible for the return and surrender 
of those innocent men to Southern barbarity, before the 
court of, public, opinion at. least, in Massachusetts. 

Henry Bushes.. also said to be suffering imprisonment 
in Washington, the District of Cohunbia, charged with 
< beving the common dictates of humanity, bv helping a 
feliofr being from bondage.- 

Miss Delia A . Webster, of Vermont, is also found 
guilty of being suspected of a similar offence against a 
slayji holding despotism, in Lexington Kentucky, and 
i sentenced to two years imprisonment in the Penitentia- 
ry, and the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks *!s now awaiting his 
trial, in the same place, under a like charge, and judging 
from the past, we have no hope of his fareing any bet- 
ter than the others. 

Thus ten individuals are now groaning out a cruel 
and unjust servitude in Southern prisons, not even 
charged v.ilh an. act, that in our State, or any other of 
the Northern. States would be regarded a» a crimed but 
on the eontratTj ac'.: that e very true man whose heart 
pulsates .with- the common ' sympathies, of humanity, 
wdfald feel bound to put into execution on every. possi- 
ble occasion. 

These individuals, are ; most of them, we believe, 
men of helpless families, who are also great sufferers. 

There is one feature of injustice in these cases that 
we cannot omit to mention. Thev have all undei-gone 
the /ww of a trial only. A tribunal of justice, it will be 
acknowledged, must be composed of men who have no 
interest in the cases which come before them for ajudi- 
cation. Jurors and witnesses, who have even an indi- 
rect interest only , in the question at issue, are entirely in- 
admissabjfe in common courts of justice. This we pre- 
sume will not be denied, everv common sense man will 
dmH it; and with this view of the case, what chance 
;ive the individuals nllud'-d to Iwl for an impartial trial. 



the fullest expectations of success. The general aspect 
of things in our own country, is fnlljjof promise for the 
future. 

And we find that our cause is making great progress 
throughout the world. In this cause our own naaon 
is travelling in the rear, and is taking rank with Spain, 
Portugal, and Brazil, while ajl'thc other nations of Eu- 
rope, and some others of the semi-barbarous stamp, are 

engaged in a war against all involuntary servitude, wiih- 
i -ights to due course of law, is the treatment Mr. Hoar j out cr j mc 

has received from the Governor and Legislature of Groat Britain continues to take the bad « this enter- 
south Carolina. This state, with some others, subjects > ^e, after haT ; ng emancipaied ll0| . CWIlslaT at „ 
.i,efrce citizens of color arriving m their ports to im- ; cosf of $100,000,000, according to a recent statement 
prisonment during the stay of the v essel, without even J 0 f Mr. Calhoun, Secretary of State, she has spent anoth- 
the charge or pretence of crime. In these casee the j er $100,000,000 in efforts to suppress the foreign slave 



s ours in common with the rest, and we leave it with 
his' society to say w hat action shall be taken in refer- 
•nee to these matters. 

Another proof of the progress of our cause, and the 
he determination of slaveholders not to submit their 



ownersofvesselsmustloo.se theservices of their men, 
he men must loose their own time, and what renders it 
gull more odious and absurd, these innocent men must 



trade; — while our own Government vessels have yet to 
take up th" first slaver, though they have on some oc- 
casion^ manifested great zeal and fidelity to the slave 



pay their own prison expenses. But these arc all true holding interest of the United Stales, by pursuing and 
•haracteristics of Southern justice. 
Free citizens of Massachusetts have thus been impri- 



taking up those who were making their escape from fhe 
bondage of the South. This is truly a humiliating state 
soned in South Carolina and Lousiana, and its palpable ! of lhm '^ but *? think that thv si S ns of lhe tiint> s indi- 
iniustice has induced Massachusetts to send, agents tol cato vor >' c,ettrl >' ^ a ' c - risis is at liaD<I >and that the 

those two states, to have the constitutionality of those i ind '- nant fi ** M * Rn of the Nortu wi " arisp »' their 
i i ; . . j • .i I might, and resolve no longer to be ruled, or permit f in- 

laws peaceably ksted in lhe proper courts. \ . , , S , w |«l«Ul wit, 

.'. „ , ■ .l . it II i i • i , I nation to be ruled bv 2a0,000 slaveholders. 

It is well known that Mr. Hoar has been violently I 

expelled from South Carolina by the legislature of that i ' 

state, and Mr. Hubbard is promised even worse treat- Among the evidences of the rapid growthof the Li- 
ment in New Orleans. These mea are the legally au-.j berty party, is the continued increase of liberty papers, 
thorized agents of Massachusetts, and it yet remains ^ intendedjto give a full list of them/btit tlu jejmrt 



to be seen what course hhc will take in reference to 
the treaimcnt her agents have received from those Stales 
Th> insult is of an. aggravated character, and we at • 
bound to render Massachusetts our sympathy and sup- 
port. The cause we have direct interest in, our own 
free citizens are liable to be imprisoned under the same 
luws, and we should make common cause with her in 
this matter. — South Carolina dare not take a colored 
seaman from any foreign vessel in her ports, and it 



Mid proceedings of the state society have crowded 
out this, and much other matter. One daily, and three 
br four weekly Liberty pipers have sprung into exist- 
ence since the election, and preparations are making for 
several others. 

When we look back upon the desperate means made 
use of to destroy the Liberty party, during the lust elec- 
tioneering campaign, we feel great cause for rejoicing, 
that as a party, we have not only held our own, but made 



amounts to this, that our own citizens under Southern ! an increase of 6000 votes, in this year of falsehood and 



laws, are not entitled to the protection that foreigners 
everywhere receive. In refusing to let justice take a 
legal course, they show the rottenness and injustice of 
their cause. 

Each year as it rolls around, gives fresh evidence that 
the cause of freedom is on the advance in our Legislative 
Halls, and we rejoice in being able to congratulate our 



forgeries. Wc can rejoice in another fact which tells 
well for our cause, and that is, not a single liberty party 
editor has been found wavering. As far as we know. 
They are all reading men, and it shows the importance 
of increasing papers, and their circulation. We antici- 
pate the' accomplishment of great things this year in ' 
this way. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, JANUARY. 31, 1845. 



Let us throw bffthe mask— His a cobweb o'na at best, 
and the world will see through it. It will not do thus to 
talk like philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants; 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text 
ond actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. Fin>'knetj,of"3lnnjhtnd. 



In all things that have beauty, there is nothing to man 
more comely than LIBERTY Milton. 



THE STATE SOCIETY. 
k By the proceedings in another Co umn, it will be ; 
seen that the annual meeting was held in Jersey City j 
on the 22d inst! The distant parts of the Slate were j 
not represented as they should have been, but the meet-; i 
iiig was one of interest. By the resolutions adopted,! 
it will be seen that the active abolitionists in the State, 
at any rate, all those who attended the two last state J 
meetings, have full faith in the efficacy of ballot box- 
abolitionism.— The resolutions after full discussions; 
were adopted ' without a dissenting voice. The re- j 
marks made by Alvan Stewart, Esq 1 , on the duty of J 
voting our .principles as well ns to talk about them, we | 
think were enough to convince any one whose mind is 
open to conviction, that praying and talking against 
slavery, and then voting for it, is a palpable absurdity. , 

It is hoped that the friends through the State, will 
proceed without delay to organize liberty~associations 
according to the plan suggested in the resolution. 

In any place where there is but one liberty man, le- 
him organize, let him make himself President. Secreta- 
ry, Treasurer and Agent, in short, all that is necessary 
to get and distribute tracts, papers, and whatever .else 
will advance the cause. Now is the time for action, 
we believe the people almost everywhere are willing 
to investigate and know the truth in reference to this 
matter; let them have the light. 

Our annual meeting was one of great interest, a num- 
ler-of friends, were there from New York and Brook- 
lyn, and participated in the discussious; and the citizens 
of Jersey City turned out well in the afternoon, and in 
the evening filled the Hall, and listened to tke discus- 
sions evidently with interest until a late hour, when the 
society adjourned. We believe the individuals at the 
meeting are willing to be enlightened, and let us see to 
it that the laborers are not few. 

It is hoped that the committee appointed to make in- 
quiries respecting the publication ofa weekly newspaper, 
will discharge its duly faithfully: such a papej I 
published in the city of Newark would tend j 
greatly to forward the caiise. The principles of liberty, j 
like ali other truths, will take hold of the people in pro- j 
portion to the light that is shed abroad; and a weck'y | 
paper will do much to enlighten the people of New i 
Jersev. Newark, though it be in one corner of the j 
State, yet from its easiness of access to a-li parts, it may j 
be considered the .grand centre, and we believe that 
6hou!d be the phfee for a paper. I 



In order to carry into op'-ration the views of the State 
Soeie.li , as expressed in the resolutions adopted, funds 
will be necessary, and it is hoped that the friends 
throughout the State will make a systematic effort to 
collect money, not refusing the smallest sums. A lit- 
tle money laid out for tracts, which will be placed at 
convenient depositories, will accomplish much, besides 
the Society owes a small debt which should be dis- 
charged. Let organizations be made, the money col- 
lected, and our next paper will tell where tracts may be 
bad. 



It was stated by J)r. Jewett, in his address at a Tem- 
perance Olio, recently, that there are, at the present 
time, one hundred and twenty towns in Massachusetts 
destitute ofa grog shop. 



SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE 
NEW JERSEY ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY; 
Was he'd, January 22nd, 1845. in Washington Hull, 
Jers'-. City. 

Meeting was called to order by the President A. H. 
Freeman at 1 1 o'clock, A. M. and prayer was offered 
by Rev. Mr. Weed of B'rooldin. 

The/Secretary being absent, J. Grimes was appoin- 
ted Seeretar Pro. Tern. 

The minutes oi the last meeting were then read and 
approved. 

It was then Resolved, That all individuals present 
from olher states acknowledging our principles, be invi- 
ted to participate in the deliberations of the Society. 

After some remarks l>\ the President, the annual re 
port was then rend, and after sonic very interesting re- 
marks by Mian Stewart and others, was amended and 
directed to he published. 

Tho following committiccs were then appointed. 

Busies committee;' John Grimes, Al.vuu Stewart 
T. V. Johnson, Rev. Henry Beldcn, and Rev. A. 
LJ uderwood. 

Newspaper Committee; J. Grimes, J. L. Brothvr 
ton, Wright Plavell, T. V. Johnson, Richard Kel-ai. 

Nominating Committee; Josiah P. Huntoon, Swain 
A- Condit, Jacob L. Brotliertori. 

The meeting then adjourned to half past 2 o'clock 
l\ M. 

Half past 3 o'clock, the President being absont, (hi 
Rev. Mr Belden was appointed President pro. teni. and 
praver was offered by Rev. Mr. Underwood. 

The lusiiiess committee roported the following reso- 
lutions. 

1. Ilcr.ol ;■(■(!, that we consider it, not only absurd 
but impossible to *eparat« tree moral suasion from pol- 
itical action on the subject ol slavery — e.xis'ing us i 
does by' virtue of the. law inaktng power on/y— suppor- 
ted, strengthened, perpetrated and extended bv. ler sin 
tiori: it is ohIv by legislation, that its extinction eau 
exffectually accomplished, 

2. Rwtofoed, that no consistent anti slaver man, .can 

vote either directU or indirectly for slaveholders or thee 

apologists, and it is the boon en dutv of each voter, to 
vote for the Liberty Party candidate, or Litieru- Party 
men, at ea<'h City, Countv, Town, State or Nation i 
Elecion, 

3. Resolved, that each Town or City in the State 1 e 
requested to organise a Liberty Party in s- id City oj 
To*n, for the purpose of having hnovm friends (•■■;' 
whom we can rely to raise fun^s, to pay for £ traets, and 
toaiii ill tbe circulation of our 'paper. 

4. Resolved, tuat the following form of organization 
b" re.-omrnen^ed to our friends in tins State, to wit: 

"We, the, inembeis of tin Liberty Party abolitipnisl . 

of the Township (or City) of — -, do assert* that 

Slavery is n si'i against God, and a crime against man, 
and vb"i'hl be immediately abolished. W.e therefdn 
promise lb vote the Liberty Puny Ticket, or for Liber- 
tu Party men ut each City, Town, (.'aunty or Stat' 
"lection.*' . . * 

5. Resolved, that we recommend that each Town 
or City have a standing committee to provido each cir 
or township with :inti-s'a*e»y tracts; isnd for their- j-.tli- 
cious distribution. 

6. Resolved, that we consider the proposed an - - 
tion of Texas, >\ disgrace to us as a free ai d enlight- 
ened people, and derogatory to the diameter of om 
Country. . . 

These resolutions called forth an interesting discus- 
sion, participated In bv Messrs. Stewart, Flavell, Rav, 
Knigiit, Hill, Parmer, Underwood, Lewis, and Howe; 
and were then* laid on the table for farther consideration. 

The nominating committee then made the following 
report of officers for the year, which was unauimonsb 
adopted. 

For President, 

THOMAS V. JOHNSON of Newark. 
Vice Presidents, 

Chales F. Clark of Woodbury, 

John D. VI ills oi Warren, 

Joel Bnckly, do 

Benj. Crane of Paterson. 
Rev. Henry Beklen o B onton, Cor. Secretary, 
Alexander H. Freeman of Orange, Rec. Secretary, 
George W. E9teu Boonton, Treasurer. 



Executive Committee. 

John Grimes, Geo. W. Esten, Henry Belden, Swain 
A. Condit, James S. Norris. &Frederic Stone of Boon- 
ton — John -Lee-of B'o"mfirld. Samuel I. Dorrance of 
Caldwell, Wright Flavell of Paterson, John A. Payne 
O' New rk; Ja e Howeol Jeisey City, and Joseph.;. 
Fitzgerald of Wes Milford. 

The meeting then adjourned to maet at seven o'clocl- 
in the evening. 

Seven o'clorK P M. 

The meeting wi- a>. iin Cu'led to Order by The Pres- 
ide oan.i Pr.yer was ofier«>' by M . Roll iason. 

The Paper comn itte reported the foil-owing resolu- 
tion, which was adopnd, 

Resolved, That we b lievp, tk« ccusfr of Liberty in 
our Sta e- reqo res th< publicaii- n o a weekly Liberty 
Paoer; and that Th mas V. Johnson, Rev. A. Under- 
wood. Richard Kelsal, Alexander II. freeman, C. 
Peloubet and John Lee, be • committee to make all 
n-.cess i ry enquiries m referenr c t this matter, and 
repo t a' tne me. ing of ihe Socety in mav next. 

The Business Committee then made an additional re- 
i.o t of the following resolutions. 

Resolved, That » e extend our warmest sympa*hic3 

0 Mes rs. B'uir, Work and Thompson, who have' been 
confined lor thre-- years in the Missouri. Penitentiary, 

ud who are sentenced to remaiu there for nine years 
to come. — Rev. C. ,T. Torry recently sentenced to six 

,i ars confine ent in the Maryland Penitentiary, Capt. 
Jonathan Walke , who has been branded, fined, placed 

n the pillor . be te; and is still b. pnssoned in Pensa- 
eo'a. Miss. Del'a- A. Webster and Rev. Mr. Fairbanks 
now imprisoned in Lexington Kentucky, Messrs. Lane 
ami Buyer ;'n Virginia, and Henry .Bush in Washing- 
ton ( jty; all of w.iom are suffering imprisonment, and 
s ...e of whom are in irons, on the charge of endeavor- 
in;- to.assisi slaves to escape fr"m their oppressors. 

It matters not whether they did the things which are 
laid o their charge i not; ii they did, we honor them 
for it, and ogatd th- m as suffering for acts of philan- 

hropy and mercv; if tiiey did not, then they are seffer- 
ing-for '-eincr suspected. In either case we vie. > their 

1 uprisonmeut a id pt:rsecution, wi ; h mingledt emotions 
of indignation :*nd ^net, and we invoke the prayers and 
the efions-ot ever * friend of freedo.TT, for ihe overthrow 
ot'thi.t sjystoni of oppression which thus seeks the des- 

ruction of every one who would remember those in 

onds as bound w ith them. 

• . Resoived, tnat theforcible expulsion of Mr. Hoar 
irom Soe-th ' an lina. : i the Legislature and populace 
o that State, and the like exoulsion of Mr. Hubbard 
'torn L u.-iana, dri ves the unuterahle condemnation of 
ever just celov. ng man. and that it is the dutv of Mas- 
sachusetts te p' rsevere in this matter, until the eoftsti- 
iu ionalry m those laws under which the free colored 
l izens of the free states are imprisoned at the South 
vithoul the commission of crime, and that it is the du- 
y of nil the otiier states of the North to. sympatnize and 
o-b'pera:e with her in the work. 

9 Resolved, that the Executive Committee be di- 
rer ied to employ an agent to secure organizations in 
very township where it is practicable, and to purchase 
and distribute anti-slavery tracts. 

10. Resolved, that the Executive Committee be 
instructed to make arrangements to hold an anti-slavery 
amp meeting, some time during the ensuing summer, 
,,rovfded they have a prospect of being sustained in 
;he expenses, and can provide suitable speakers to 
make the meeting interesting. 
A collection was then taken up, amountingto $12,72. 
The eighth first resolutions were then taken up, 
and after a general discussion, by Messrs. Flavel, Robin- 
son, Johnson, Stewart, Parmer and Dorrance, were ad- 
opted. 

It was then 

Resolved, that a hearty vote of thanks is due to our 
Jersey City friends, for furnishing at their own expense, 
so p'easant and comfortable a place to hold a meeting 
ii;, a:id ihe excellent entertainment provided for .those 
in attendance. 

Resolved that this Society now adjourn to meet 
again in May next. 



Queries ? — If Texas be annexed to the United 
States, will England be restrained from taking hold of 
Cuba, by any regard for this Government? 

If Cuba gets in the possession of the English, how 
long will slavery last there? 

If Cuba becomes free, how long will this Govern- 
ment be able to prop up Southern slavery, with Canadas 
all around them, besides the numerous Canadas in the. 
United States? 



RESULT OF A JOKE. 
. The ^ew For* Organ, states that at Norwich, 'an 

' ^i5lfj1r'*ch"ri dresj,' three ot whom he destroyed by smasii- 
inew heads with a hammer, and ihe fourth, an in- 
iant, by putting jts head m a jar of » alur. The'prison- 

• ,'*r Acquitted on the ground of insanity. I is said 
iha!. Frost was formerly intemperate, but had for a long 
time: b<|en a sober and' exempjary man, and had" been 
tricked into the swallowing of a draught ot liquor by his 
.fellow workmen. ■ The scandalous joke had the feBect 
ot producing the dreadful calamity, which has been de- 

. fa» ed above, and ,the poor fellow, is now a perfect ma- 
'niac. Oh, ye tempters beware! 



A Goqd Story. They tejl a good story at . North- 
hampton about the editor of the New Orleans Picayune. 

He stopped at .the stage house, with the inteption of 
spending some da vs in that .beautiful town. , After a 
reasonable time he became dry, apd called for a glask 
. of brandy. "No," s.tys the landlord, "we 'have no li- 
cense to sell spirits— we don't keep the article." The 
editor visited the other public houses, looked into all the 
groceries and cellars, made close enquiries, but found 
. them all teetotal. He returned to the stage hpuse' with 
.a long face— ''•Landlord," said he, tell me the nearest 
place where I pan get a glass of brandy, for I am top dry 
<o stay here '.any longer." "I guess you- can" get it at 
Oreenfield, for they grant licences there' and it is said 
they sell spirits.?'— "How far is it?" "Twenty miles." 
"What time does the stage start ?" — "Twelve o'clock 
•at night." "Well landlord, book-me for Greenfield. n 
• Voice of Freedom. 



♦STRANGE INCONSISTENCY'. 
The Portland Tribune condemns, the efforts 
now making in bebaif of Mr. '. Torrey.,. and , Jon- 
alhoii Walker, "'who are .confine d jail for aidinir 
runaway slaves,. 'and calls it "unmerited sympathy," 
-'hopes no attempt will be made to interfere, kc &c.'''' 
This same paper nor long since occupied three columns 



and had just ben .vjild to a speculator, who was now 
taking them to the Charleston rharketj "Upon the shore 
w as a number of colored persons, w omen and chil dren 
waiting for the departure ol the boat; and. my attention 
v*as particularly attracted by two colored females, ot 
uncommonly respectable appearance, n ally attired, who 
stood together, a little distance from the crowd, and up- 
on whose counteances v. as depieftd the keenest sorrow 
As the last- bell was tolling i saw tears gushing from 
their eyes, and they raised their neat cotton aprons and 
wiped their faces, under the cutting anguish of severed 
affection. They were the wives of the two men in chains. 
There, too, were mothers and sisters, weeping at the 
departure of their sons and brothers; and there, too, 
were fathers, taking the last look of then- wives and chil 
dren. My whole attention was directed to those on 
the shore, as they Seemed to stand in solemn, submissive 
silence, occasioualiy giving utterance to the intensity of 
their feelings by a sigh, or a stifled groan. As the boat 
was unloosed from her moorings, the. cast a distress-d, 
lingering look towards those on board, and turned away 
in silence. . 

My eye turned to .those in the- boat; and although I 
had tried to control my feelings, amiflst my 'sympathies 
for those on shore, I could conceal them no lon- 
ger, and I found myself literally "weeping witj'r those 
that weep." I stood near them, and w } len one of the 
husbands saw his wife on the shore wave her' hand for 
the last time, in tok»n of her affection, his manly efforts 
to restrain his feelings gave way, and fixing his watery- 
eyes on her, he exclaimed, "This is the most distressing 
seeue of all ! My dear wife and children, farewell !" 
•The husband of the other wife stood weeping in silence 
with his manacled hands raised to his face, as he looked 
ueon her for the last time. Of the poor women on 
board, three of them had husbands, whom they left be- 
hind. One of them had* three children, another two. 
and the thiid none. Three husbands and fathers were 



On t Thursday, the loin mst. i»y the Kev. H. nry 
Belden ot iioonton, Mr. Asa B. Peloubet, to Mis 
Carolini [ an V'v inkle, ol Powerviile. 



Lost, — Yesterday, somewhere betweed sunrise and 
sunset, two golden hours, each secured with sixty diaL 
mona .minutes. No reward ottered, for ihey are "one 
forever " 



A MEETING OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Of New. Jersey Arrtj-Slayery Society will be held at 
tbe pffice of the Freeman in Boonton on Saturday 8th 
of Febuary next, at 6 o'clock P. M., to transact Im 
portant business 

A full attendance is particularly requested. 



to excite sympathy in behalf ot a forger in this oily, , - A \ . 
whose crime was-.committecl under aggravated eireum- anudst ^e throng on the shore, witnessing the departure 
stances: Alas for the inconsistence of pbor humaii na- oi ' th '-''r--wives and children, and as they took their leavi 
jure! Should any honorable person attempt to justify a : of them they were fitting together upon fhe floor of the 

■-. _ ' ll0a1 -sobbing in silence, but giving utterance tp no com- 

CONMDER. J. plaint. But the.. dist>--.««i>,« scene was not yet ended 



T jE M P E R A N C E 
CONVENTION. 

A Convention will be held on Thursday, the 20th of 
February , 1845, in the Church at Whippany. for the 
purpose of organizing a county Washington, Tempe- 
rance Benevolent Society for the County of Morris. 

Let all true Washingtptvans in the country be at 
their posts on this occasion. 

Meetings at I o'clock P. M. and co: cert V, thy. eve- 
ning. 

Addresses by several individuals. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel are for 
sa'e at 'hi office. 

This is superior to any^ thing of ;he hind we hove 
seen and should be in tlie possession of every one that 
loves good nusie, and loves to make a good) use of it v 
Price, 44 cents. 



' — •••;- • • . 

We commend the following sentence from the Chris- 
tian Index, (Geo.) to the especial notice of our cotem- 

J :! It JTr_ II _i I ii i» . • 



poraries: " W<c are decidedly o f opinion these professed- 
ly neutral papers are more hostile to Southern interests* 
•hen papers conducted by avowed, but honest abotitioi- 
ists."—phr. Politician. 

The outspoken, honest abolitionists have. ever been 
more respected by slavebolers than their northern apol- 
ogias. If any. one would influence the south, let him 
plainly declare his sentiments and act from them; 

Middlesex Standard. 

The Horrible Traffic. 

We call the attention of our readers and ask them to 
call the attention of their neighbors of all. parties to fhe 
fol owing extract of a letter from a Baltimore gentlemaii 
. of the highest standing and -talent,- addressed tp the ed- 
_ itor of the New York Christian Advocate, and copied 
from that paper into the . Baltimore Saturday 'Visitor, 
w.ith the significant remark that " the writer need not 
have gone beyond our own precincts, to witness similar 
rry.ues of woe." Let all,' at the North, who are dispos- 
ed to favor the scheme of the annexation of Texas 
0 */« '■<' lerritonj, remember that sueh a measure must in 
• •^itably increase four-fold this dreadful traffic. There 
vv;Jl be jpytin the heart of every human flesh-seller in 
the Routji over such an event. ',■■»'■. 

As I wei,t on hoard the steamboat I noticed eighteen 
colored men, hand-cuffed and chained together in pairs, 
four Women, and eight or ten children, of the. apparent 
ages of from four to ten years, all standing' in the bow 
<>f the boat, in charge of a man standing n^ar them. 

Of the men, one was <jt), one was 52, three of them 
ultout 30, two of them about; 25, and one of thtJm abou' 
:»() years o age, as I 'sub^jquenUy .learned from th m. 
<\vr.ing near them, I perceived that they w -reall g^.'at 
Jy agilateil, and uppn inquiry I found that ihey wfflfe ai! 
tarns, who had been born and raised in North Carolina 



Sailing down the Cape F ar river twenty-five miles, 
we tou-ched*at the little village of Smithporf. on the south 
side of the river. It was at this place that one of the 
slaves lived, and here was his wjfe and five children; 
and prhife at work on Monday last his purchaser took 
him away from his family , apt! carried "him in chains to 
Wilmington, where he has since remained in jail . As 
we approached the wharf, a flood of tears gushed from 
his eyes, anguish seemed to'havt pierced his heart. 
The bqat stopped but a moment, and as she left, he bid 
fareweTto some of his acquaintance upon the shore, ex- 
claiming, "Boys,' I wish yo.u well; tell Molly (brewing 
his wife) and the children I wish them well and hope 
God will b|e SS them." At that moment he espied his 
wife on the sfpop of a house some rods from the shore 
and wjth one haijd which was not in the hand-cuifs, he 
pulled pfPhls old hat, and waving it toward her, ex- 
claimed, " Farewell." As he saw by the waving of her 
apron, that she recognized him, he leaned back upon the 
railing, and in a faK-ring voice repeated, " Farewell 
forever." After a moment's silence, conflicting pa,- 
sions seemed to tear his heart, and he exclaimed, "w hat 
have I done that I should deserve this doom? Oh, my 
wife and children, I want to live no longer ;" and when 
the big tear rolled io^n his cheek, which he w ipe, 1 
away with the palm of his unchained hand, he looket 
once more "at the mother of his five children, and the tur- 
ning of the boat hid her from him forever. 

As 1 looked around I saw thai mine was not the on!-, 
heart that had been affected hy the scene, but that th( 
tears standing in the -eyes of many of my fellow passe;, - 
gers, bore testimony tp the influence of human sympa 
thy; and I cqifld as an American, citizen, standing with 
in the limits of one of the old th'irteep States, but u ; 



Congregationalism and 
Church Action: 

WITH the PRINCIPLES ofCHRISTj \N UNION, 

BY JOHN KEEP, 
Pastor of a Congreoational Cuuncn in Ohio. 

This is the tile of a Duodecimo Volume jus' publish- 
ed, '.einv a taithful exposition of the ;ust p. weru eccle- 
siastical bod es, the rights of individual members, and 
the* evils, ef Sectarianism, It is a work mat .v.oiuld be 
read by every man and woman in the land A tew cop- 
ies may b^had of Rev. Henry Bdder,, B ooton; 25cts. 



he la-cmage-of Mr. lefferson in relati'oV to the' 
Hfbject, 'I tremble 



genet 

frhen I reme ni.e.. that God is jus- 
Middlesex Standard. 



FAhh AND WINTER 
GOODS. 

D. C. J^OliRIS, 

Saving enlarged his Sfegre, is prepared to Ufona 
i>- of - customers and the p. bb- ge lerally. that be has 
j st receive^ a large *tock of fall ANp winter ^ot-nu, 
an I is d sposed to sell for 

RE. IDT P.1Y 9 

as low as tlftey can he had at any other sUne the 
vicinity. Call and examine. 
Boonton. Nov. 25, IH44. 



Boonton Washington Temperance JJuht- 
nknt Socie/y.— meets every Mojiday eve 
ning in the Free Church Jolm Maxfield, 
Ptfsirhmt, Fredrick Stone, Secretary. 



houn&tm Liberty Association,— meets the 
first Friday evening of every month.' 
M. Ev«rts, President, C. B. Hmifi, &c 



/ 



THE NEW 





n, MAN. 



VOL. I. 



BOOJVTOJV, FEBRUARY 28, 1845. 



JVO. 10. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

• .JOHN GRIMES, Em TOR AND PUOPRIETOK. 
Boonton, Moms County, New Jersey. 

TERMS. 

Single copy 25 .cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
to pay postage. 



I '* a "umber of our hitherto staid friends had not, most 
I unfortunately got their feet into the Roorback trap. 
I Like yourself, I could scarcely believe it when I heard 
j it, but so it was; Birney had turned Loco was the cry, 
| and those who used to be whigs swallowed it, and those 
i from the Democratic ranks bolted too. ' Strange fatu- 
| ity. But this will never do; we must be better politi- 
; cisns than to be carried away by a dose of strong lying 
j just on the eve of an election, scared off like a flock of 
J sheep by a dog, or a group of children by a lunatic; if 
we are to be moved from our steadfastness as easy as 



i this, we M il) have enough of it,$nd will soon be the 

^^^^^ aa=H ^ =a ™ HH ^ =H : standing laugh of the shallow, and the wonder of sensi- 
The following communication was omitted in our ble men. 
December number, and we h&d not room for it in the ) I have seen no response to my 'suggestion relative to 
next, but we thiak it is not too late now. j an anti slavery camp-meeting next" summer, except one 

For, the Freeman. editorinl scintillation. I will not urge the -idea, but I 

Orange, December 16th, 1844. j should like to know what is thought about it. 
Dr. Grimes : You say you would like to give '» list of Temperance 

The official report of the Presidential j Houses, but do not know where to begin. Put down 
election in New Jersey gives Birney W votes, which i the name of Albert Gurnee, in Patterson, at the head 
is nearly double the number given him in 1840; we j of (he list. My friend and your's, Dr. Clarke of Wood- 
have then 131 enfranchised men in the State, j bury gave me the. name of a Temperance Innkeeper in 
who have sufficient stamina to withstand the seduc- : his town, but unforunatelv, as it sometimes happens 
tions of the slave power, in its New Jersey modifica- j when we write proper names, I could" not decipher if 
tions, and prove themselves true to the interests of the I perhaps he will send you a Woodbury paper with tht 

; gentleman's advertisement in. 



ALEX. H. FREEMAN. 

For the Freeman- 
Is it likely that the Liberty Party 
will hecotne corrupt i 

Much has been said of late years in this country 



The shoulders of these 131 men may be safely calcu- 
lated upon as the foundation of the Liberty party in 
our state; it is four years sioce we knew how many 
there were of us; we know our strength cow, and we 
know where to find its constituent parts; too much' 
scattered, perhaps, to make a concentrated effort, but, 
just enough to act as leaven, which it appears to me is ■ „ k „, ,' 

,i „ , rr ; about the corruptions of party politics That moss co 

the manner we are called upon to act, we are too weak t - ■ t \. , , f * engross co. 

f „ __i„ i „ • . - ' , i ruptions exist there can be no doubt. The ongaas a) 

to make much noise by the force of numbers; our ac- ; u . u j f -n • • , " , 

m _. , k , . . ' ; each party abound with accusations against the others, 

tion must be by personal intercourse; conversational! j * , , , 

amimM( atwl ,^4. j- ♦ -u «- ■ i- • , ',- , and many ot our citizens had become so disgusted wit! 
argument and tract distribution, judiciously app hed, are t i > M f ..• . • , . 8 ' 

*„ u • , i "»e proceedings of the two great parties, that for vear 

to be our weapons, and we must settle it in our minds L , , k S , ... S . , V ■ 1 7 \ 
that WP will Hnn,„ n „ i i? u j " us they had abandoned the pons, and retrained from a 1 

mat we will do our own work. Each and every one ... ,., \ .. , . , 

^f*k„ ioi t j -j /• , '• ,,. . connection with politics, while the evils complained of 

of ihe 131 must decide for himself that he will be one 1 u u .• u ■ „. 1 1 

e , , havcbeencontinuallygrowingwor.se. The number of 

of the vanguard, he singled out from the populace, be a wi,^ 0 „.i „ i, , A i 't v. u • 

, y \ , , tllose wao have thus stood aloof has been increasing, 

common mark to be shot at, or whatever else mav be ! 4 -i 4 i n . « . . ' . • 

. , TV • ' , , „ ■ y j until recently a goodly number of them have been ed 

ne essary toadvance the cause;-And further, that he to ^ and , he inquir> , whether thcy had a 

; !be ; M ^ * weave it mto. re,, day life, live it nght thus to wlthold thcir ^nce from their coun- 

Zl^STZt"*!?*?* ^****^>\£>* cause; whether as patriots and philanthropises, 
and satisfy them, that on this sub ect he is -wool- .u * i j . j > , , , 

, w .. . ' , . , ... ?° uo Jeci ne is uool they were not bound to do what they could to wrest 

dyed, that it is chinked into him, that with h'uv t u e i c ,i ■ ; I • , 

* V . ... . ' " Wlw : the reins of Government from the hands of unpr nc pled 

true democracy is a Imm, active, ac/r/rcsaivc realitv '■ - i • ■ • • H F 

, m „, .... c , . ,' , ,' "w"« ,Bwe rcam yT: demagogues, who were prostituting the powers with 
unsusceptible of being seduced, thwarted, frightened, or ' ' , l Ai a .IT' 

smothered y entrusted, to their own selfish purpo- 

c„ 0 „„ , iscs. This enquirv led to the formation of the libertv 

Success attending activity, and serous bss attending i t m u ••' • r • 
„i„,i,f i ■ . -i • , , * autuuing ()ar t v . The beginning of this party was small Oniv 

slothfulness, is strikingly exemplified in the history of ' f * n .„ ra -? v * , . . 1 3 , . 5 

our vote in Passaic County. In 1840, this cou^ ' Z I f % , • * v"! T ^ 
gave Birney and Earle 17 voL, one fourth of the Lib-i ^ CqUal "f^^' TT 
erty vote of the State; in 1841 Patterson polled 38 i ° f ^T'"^ 

votes, and the County Passaic 55 votes, within about a 1 T" 1 ^ i th6SR ^ ^ 

doze of what the State gave a year before.-This was j ^ Stl " d ^ ^ T ^ - - ^ ^ ^ 

a fine increase, and was the result of a few meeti ngs, " gh 'r T , the " B ' 1 ^ - hand, and the 

and some agitation. Had these meetings, and this agi- ! ^ ? Independence in the other, they vowed 
tation been kept up, there would have been 100 votes! *" and children, that they would ne- 

ver cease to carry on the contest, until our Govern 



there this fall instead of NINE. The Creole Cas 
happened about that time, and sundry other matters ag- 
itated Congress, and we fancied 1 that our efforts were 
not in pressing demand. — Congress had taken the work 
out of our hands, and would do it better and quicker 
than we: fatal mistake! superinduced by our unwisdom 
and slothfulness, and rewarded in 1844, by 9 votes all 
told. Let me admonish the 131 men of New Jersey to 
beware of the rock on which Passaic County, and es- 
pecially Patterson split, and to avoid it, let them be all 
at it, and always at it. 
But after all, we would have had more votes there,' 



ment shou'd be administered with impartial justice, atid 
an equal regard to the rights of every humun being, 
irrespective of color and condition. 

But tho' their beginnings were small, the course of 
things has given promise that their " latter end shall 
greatly increase." Four years ago they numbered 
about 7000. At the election last fall they came up to 
the polls with nine times that number. The eyes of 
the nation and of the word are now fixed upon, them 
with absorbing interest. But still there are many who 
wish well to their country and the world, who hesitate 
,,to connect themselves with this party, from the fear lest 



in a few years it shall become corrupt like the other two 
prominent parties. Is this fear well grounded? Will 
the Liberty party be likely to become corrupt? 

Without claiming any peculiar discernment with re- 
gard to coming events, I would unhesitatingly answer 
this question in the negative. And I have no doubt that 
any candid mind acquainted with the principles and the 
oiganization of all the parties would come to the same 
conclusion.* With the exercise of all my charity I 
cannot but think those who express a contrary opinion, 
are fettered' bv prejudice, and in want of information as 
to the true character of the Liberty Party. Permit me 
to give my views of this subject, bv asking and answer- 
ing two questions. 

1. What are the causes which have led to the en- 
tire corruption of the Whig and Democratic parties ? > 

First, I mention as the principal cause of their degen- 
eracy, that they have proposed to themselves a selfish 
end as the main object pursuit. While they have 
professed to aim at the settlement of questions relating 
to pecuniary interests of the nation, they have in reali- 
ty b*-on striving to get possession of the profits and hon- 
ors of office for themselves. This has been the case at 
least with those who have made the noise, and exerted 
the influence which has controlled the mass. But even 
the objects which they have pretended to have irijlview, 
are of no greater importance than the protection and 
increase of the wealth of the greater part of the people. 
They have agreed in turning- a deaf ear to questions of 
infinitely higher import; questions which affect the lives, 
the liberties, and the happiness ofa large portion of the 
population. In order to do this, they had to become 
mean and selfish, and it could not well be otherwise 

rhan that they should, become corrupt. An unworthy 

c,( ! dishoiidrable course of action necessarily results in 
a corruption of morals, and the longer that people pur- 
stie such a coarse, the more corrupt must they become. 

' Their principles of operation have been of a most de - 
moralizing character. ; 

Both parties taking it for granted that the ends they 
had in view were of the greatest importance, have 
considered themselves justified in using any means to 
secure success. Not satisfied with using fair and hon- 
orable means, they have openly defended the principle 
of doing evil that good might come. It is hardly neces- 
sary here to mention the betting on elections, the bribe- 
ry both direct and indirect, the circulation of false and 
slanderous reports, the illegal voting, and the worse 
than useless expenditure of time and money in theerec- 
j tion of log. cabins, and hickory and ash poles, with the 
[ p'entiful supply of hard cider and harder rum and bran- 
' dy. The patriotic and virtuous have witnessed these 
thiijgs, until they have been constrained to elevate n 
standard under which none but men of integrity may 
expect preferment. 

I mention one other thing which has a been great cause 
of corruption. That is the blind subssrnency of the 
parties to their political leaders. 

This has been such that whatever principles were, 
advanced by the leaders, they were sure to be endorsed 
bv their parties. Whatever course of action was pro- 
posed was. most readily concurred in. Their organiza- 
tion has been so complete that in fact the will of the 
leaders has been the will of the party. They 
would approve or condemn, they would favor or oppose 
according to the beck and nod of those to whom they 
were accustomed to look for guidance. I was struck 
with a little illustration of this some time since, at a 
great mass meeting of one of the parties. The number 
of people present was so great that but a small portion 
of them could hear anv thing from the speakers' stand. 
But in order to have everything go on right, a man was 
placed in an elevatsd situation, near the speaker, and 



character to the Liberty Party, aud they must ever ex- ; vocatc, society a valuable member, and a husband a 
ert a controlling influence in its councils. They cannot-j kind and affectionate companion, who was always rea- 
be intimidated, deceived or bought; aud' they cannot bei<b' and anxious to assist him in his labors for the ad- 



driven from the ranks of the party, or shorn of their 
moral power. The Liberty Party have no leader.., in 



vancement of every good cause. 

She was, we believe, a native of Western New York, 
and was married to the Rev. YVm. L. Parsons about 4 



the sense that the other parties have. There arc those years pincC) , v!u>n thoy imm ^ lalely n ; ovcd t0 NWar k> 
among them who from their moral excellence and intel- j N. J. w here Mr. Parsons became the Pastor of the Free 
lectual power, -must evert a great influence, over tiio.se.' Church, and Continued thereuntil the Fall of 1843. 
with whom they associate. Cut such nn influence is of Hc tht ' n . mo Y e< L to Boonton, and preached about ten 



a healthy character and is a mighty safeguard against 



months in the Free Church, . hen he received ft call 
from the Church at. Aurora, which he accepted, bejiev- 



eorruption. The individuals of the party', examine and j llg t j H , y coul ,i be morc lu . efu , there , t wa g bc 



judge fojr themselves 



II. B 



LIBERTY PAPERS. 



■here he could be seen by all in the crowd. YVhen I not only remain pure and free themselves, but they will j Communicated for the Freeman. 

man heard anything which he considered worthy of present an immoveable phalanx, in opposition to all mi- 1 T ., , c ~ „,. . 

i I , a * m- . • ♦ f„ , T , \ e i A • I» the death of Mrs. Parsons, of Aurora, Illinois, on 

• -'plause, or when he considered that a sufficient inter- hallowed intrigues. Those men have formed and given j t ] le -, u j£ t ^ c rttutte 0 f truth has lost i JHithful ad- 

val had elapsed since the last expression of admiration, 
he would take off his hat and wave it about his head. 
At this signal, the people, not one in ten of whom had 
the remotest idea of what was spoken, would make the 
welkin resound with their three hearty cheers, or if the 
man continued to wave his hat, they would give three 
times three: And so they have acted in everything 
\ believing all that their editors have published, and 
. /porting all whom their leaders have chosen to nomi- 
nate. And while this has been going on, the people 
have been amused with the appointment of delegates 
and committees, and persuaded that their will alone was 
consulted. 

Were it proper to occupy the space in your small pa- j 
j Sr, We might proceed further into the causes of the j 
hraption of these two great parties. But let me add, 
if the Liberty party follows in the same steps, it will i which we intenri to Oofttinue as we ca 
cease to be a Liberty party. Notwithstanding all their; rec ; ess. 

professions, both the Whigs and Democrats are slave-; The' E M ANCIP ATO R AND CHRONICLE, Bos- 
ry parties. .They were '.organized under a slave influ j f - on i Joshua Leavitt, and E. Wright Jr. cdilors— weekly 
i ncc, they are ruled by slaveholders, and they both at : an( ^ daily. 

the late election had slave holders for their Presidential | LIBERTY STANDARD, Hallowell, *Iaiae, Aus- 
candidate*. It is the slave power which regulates their ' : ' n WiHey editor. 

principles and controls their operations. 1 The Bangor Gazette is suspended for the present, 

i • j i | , a tv. _ •! to be resumed again in a short time, 

i will now ask the second question. Are those caus- 
es which have corrupted the Whigs and 
operation among the Liberty Party? 
will not require a. prophet to predict the event, f-verj , 
body understands the universal principle that 'like caus- J 
cs' produce like -effects.' But it is equally Lruc tnatoppp 
site causes produce opposite effects; &o that if causes of 
an opposite character to those we Jiave m ntioited, an 
everting their influence over the Liberty Parly, they j 
must result in the continuation and growth of a pure' 
and elevated character. • • ! 

It is to be clwerved with reference to their niaiii <>h j 
ject of parsnip that the Liberty Party has great and no j 
bk end's in view. According to the dictates of true be- | 
lr volence they seek to promote the most important ob- ; 
j ct first. While tliey allow that the pecuniary inter-.: 
» :, sts ofb'lsiness men are to be looked after; they consid- 1 



tween three and four months only after they left 
Boonton, before death parted them. — Mrs. Parsons ex- 
hibited in her life, one of the most lovely specimens 
of Christian c haracter. Her great desire was to do God, 
. . v'K '. : ' . r . » l ^ it was what she lived for ; she was readv to saerifice 

We give u.ulrr thrf head a list of me L.brrty topers her own comfort for the accomplishment' of good, and 

do it with cor- for "this end her labors were incessant ; her unassuming 
manners; her kind and faithful attentions, end' aied her 
co all who became acquainted with her The poor 
ere always "welcome, And made lo feel at home in her 
presence; to know her was to love her. AH «ho knew 
her, her desire, her qualifications, and her zeal fordoing 
good, must view the premature termination of her earth- 
ly existence as one of the mysterious providences of 
God. But as she lived to do the will of God, so un- 
doubtedly she yielded cheerfully to his will in death. — 
All who knew . Mr. and Mrs. Parsons, will sincerely 
1 Democrats, in j 'MIDDLESEX STANDARD, at Lowei. John G. sympathize with her bereaved, partner. His loss is 
If they are ii Wmltier » an(I C - Knapp editors great, but he will not murmur, in the fulness of his 

event Every] V0ICE 0F FREEDOM, Brandon. Vermont, J. heart he is ready to exclaim, "The Lord gave, and the 



Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord." 
j He has lost a kind, faithful, affectionate and efficient 



Holcomb edit«r. 

GRANITE FREEMAN, Concord, New Hamp- u 

_ ' " ; helpmeet; and though he will not murmur, he cannot 

nire - • but feel the infliction of ?&o qreat a wound for any earth- 

ALBANY'PATRIOT, Albany, James C. Jackson ', ly balm lo heal. 
tditor. -I 



The LIBERTY PRESS, Udca, W. BailcV editor. 

HERKIMER FREMAN, Little Falls, New York. 

The SIGNAL of LIBERTY, Ann Harbor, Michi- 
gan, T. Foster, and G. BeekJoy editors. 

LIBERTY HERALD, Warren, Ohio, Tait. and Wai- 
uig editors. 

CHRISTIAN POLITICIAN, Cincinnatti Ohio, Dr. 
Brisbane editor. 



Below we give the returns of the Presidential Elec- 
tion in 1844, as near correct as we can give them from 
the best sources within our reach. 

'Flic National Vote. 



,r that ths jifeerties and the happiness of the oppreaed, ! FBEK LABOR ADVOCATE, New Garden, In-; 

T « I diana, Benjamin Stanton editor. 



ar-' matters of greater moment. Consequently they 
s r ek to equalize the benefits of a good government | 
a. lioug all the inhabitants of the land. ' Not content to 
enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness them- 
. Ives, they purpose to extend the same blessings to 
every being who bears the image of God. This isano- 

J o o 

ble purpose, and the possession of it is what constitutes 
>trae nobility of soul. Wherever it is acted upon, it has 
a cent! anally elevating tendency. It is an absurdity to 
say that men arc likely to become corrupt when they 
forego selfish purposes and seek the good of their fellow 
men. Instead of becoming corrupt, it is probable that 
the Liberty party will continue lo become more pure 
until they 'present a spectacle of moral grandeur, such 
as the political world has never shown. 

As to their principles of action, it is obviously the 
wise policy of the Liberty Party to use honorable and 
righteous means to attain their ends. And we find in 
all their publications and from the closest scrutiny of their 
proceedings that they are actuated by the principles of 
righteousness and truth. They do nothing themselves, 
and they ask nothing of others of which an honest man 
need be ashamed. From such principles and such a 
course of conduct we cannot surely expect corruption, 
but rather purification. 

The Liberty Party is at present composed of such 
materials as to give the fullest assurance that the strong- 
est tendencies will exist against corruption. 

Who are the men ? The most virtuous and pious 
tha t the •country atlbrds. Many of them such as had 
withdrawn in disgust from the strife of politics in the 
old purtifis, an.l who have returned to the political arena, 
from a high sense of duty to their fellow-men, and 
their God.. Such men, can never be carried along with 

I'd ■ )' ;hn nil b?50?ni corrupt. They will 



INDIANA FREEMAN, indianapofe, Henry W. 
Dr Puy editor. 

WESTERN CITIZEN, weekly, and NEWS daily. 
Chicago, Illinois, Z. Eastman; editor. 

AMERICAN FREEMAN, Milwankie,'Wi«konsin. 
. SPIRIT OF LIBERTY, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania- 
Reese C. Fleeson editor. 

These papers 'with two or three exceptions, are of 
the largest size, . all of them are ibly conducted, of the i 
highest mora) 'tone, true- to temperance, and every sort 
of moral reform. Every good cause will go forward 
with the Liberty party, with such papers 'to advocate it. 

There is a daily and weekly at Cincinnatti, and seve- 1 
ral weeklies in Other states that w% have never seen, 
but they are . in able hands. Several otheW ate ; to bc 
started soon. 



SINGULAR FACT.— Dr .Smith who has rcemly j 
visited the Forks of the Mississippi, gives a most Ting- 
uhir fact, l»y stating from good authority, that no person I 
officially associated with the rid, uib of theUpp-r Mi.-?-'- 
issippi ever saw or heai'd of n deaT Indian, or irtio whose 
eye-sight w,is impaired <>y age, or whose teeth wer e rs 
sentially d< cayed. 





Clay. 


Polk: 




Birney. 


Maine. 


. 34,378. 


- - 45,719. 




- 4,836 


NewlHampshire 


. . 17,86f>. 


27,160. 




- 4,161 


Massachusetts. 


.. 07,418. 


- - 52,856. 




- 10,950 


Rhode Island. . 


. . 7,323. 


. . -4,848. 




- -' - 5 


Connecticut. . . 


. 32,842. 


- - 29,841, 




- 1,943 




9fi,770. 


- - 18,041.' 




- 3,970 


New York. . . 


. 232.473. 


- -237,588. 




-15,875 


New Jersey . . 


. .3S,318. 


- - 27,495. 




- - 131 


Pennsylvania. . 


. Ifil,8fi3. 


- -167,245. 




- 3,143 


Delaware. . . . 


. .(5,257. 


- - -5,969. 






Maryland. . . . 


. 35,984. 


- - 32,676. 






Virginia 


. 13,677. 


- - 49,417. 




00r 


North Carolina. 


. 43,23J. 


- - 39,287. 






■South Carolina. 


. 18,000. 


- - 37,000. 


estimated. 


Georgia. . . . . 


.. 42,100. 


- - 44,155. 






Alahama. . . . 


. aCj§&0-. 


- - 36y22S. 






.Mississippi. . . 


. »f»,103. 


* - 85,£88.; 






Louisiana. . . . 


. 1<},818. 


* -' 13,477. 






To/messee. . . 


. 00,03!». 


- - 00,915.' 






\rkahsSs. . . . 


. . 5,504. 


- - -9,546. 






Kentucky. • . • 


.*il,255. 


- - 51,988. 






Ohio. ..... 


. 155,103. 


- -149,05!'. 




- 8,050 




07,867. 


- - 70,181. 




» 2,100 


Illinois. .... 


. 46,612: 


- - 98,M5. 




- 3,721 


Michigan. . . . 


. -24,223. 


- * £7,703. 




- 3,632 


Missouri. . . . 


31,251. 


- - 41,369. 






TjRtal 


1,314,568 


1,372,401 




62,583 



(jr^>The Rev. C. Fairbank, is sentenced to 15 years 1 
imprisonment in Kentucky, as an accomplice of Miss : LIBERTY VOTE OF NEW JERSEY IN 1844. 



D. A. Webster under a charge of assisting in the escape j 
of slaves from bondage, by slave-holding or pro-slavery \ 
Judges, Jurors, Witnesses and Lawyers, backed up by 1 
pro- slavery mobs. 

"Whom the Gods wish to^destroy, they fifst /deprive ; 
of reason." 

The Texas debt is said to bc £22,000,000. 



Burlington 

Camden 

Essex 

Gloucester 

Hudsou 

Morris 



7 Passaic 

4 Salem 
29 Monmouth 
27 Sussex 

8 

34. • 



3 
7 

131 



That which is morally wrong, cannot be politically 

right 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOOtfTON, FEBRUARY. 28, 1845. 



Let us throw oti'the mask — 'tis, a cobweb one at best, 
and the world will see through it. K will nut do thus to i Gr - iraes Secretary 
talk iike philosophers, and act like unrelenting Lyrantu 
to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text 
and actual- oppression for our commentary. . . 

Wm. Pitickncy, of Mnrylawd. 



COUNTY TEMPERANCE CONVENTION. 

This Convention was held according to notice, in the 
Church, at Whippany, the 20th inst. 

The meeting was called to order by Mr. (Stone, and 
the Rev. H. R. Hedges was chosen chairmau, and J. 



In all things that have beauty, there is nothing to man 
more comolv triad LIBERTY Milton. 



We hope the article commenced on our first page 
wjll be carefully read and reflected upon. 

The idea that the Liberty Party would become cor- 
rupt as the othossiOW, has madej many honest men he- 
sitate about coming into it. — We believe' this to ,be a 
great mistake. Their is a certain support that i»e« al- 
ways receive from the principles they advocate. If men 
advocate bad measures, there will be a downward ten- 
dency, for;* the vety feature of the case. No man can 
labor for the advancement of error without becoming 
corrupted. Oil the other hand, good principles, as the 
writer of (he article referred to- very properly, remarks, 
have an "elevating tendency." The legitimate • influ- 
ence of all ir«&, is to purify the minds of. those who 
advocate it. While men advocate Christianity, they 
grow in a ! l the loveliness of Christianity. When they 
cease to advocate it, they -cease to t be Christians. It is 
so with every thing; there ;p always, a strong reciprocal 
support exerted betiveeli men and their principles. We 
hope the writer of that article will -continue to furnish 
us with his arguments on that point. 



Prayer by the Rev.- Henry Belden. 
The following resolution, after considerable discus- 
sion, was unanimously adopted. 

ResoVed, That in our view it is now expedient to 
form a county Washington Temperance B.$nevoIeftt 
Society for this county. In proceeding to this' organi- 
zation, we would have it undesrtood that we have no 
disposition to oppose or hinder the efforts of any other 
•Society. Wherever individuals or associations may be 
engaged in promoting the cause of temperance, we shall 
always be ready to encourage them, and rejoice in their 
success. 

On motion, Calvin Howell, the Rev. Mr. Riddel, 
Rev. H. Belden, J. M. Brown, J. Grimes, and J.Graa- 
nis were appointed a committee to prepare a constitu- 
tion. 

The Committee presented the following constitution, 
which was adopted. 

WHEREAS, We believe that under the Washing- 
Ionian Temperance Organiza'ions, great good htjs been 
accomplished: Within, the last few years, hundreds of 
drunkards have been reclaimed, who. had previously de- j 
fied all efforts from other sources; under the blessed in- ( 
fluencc of Washington Temperance Benevolent Socie- I 



forming a society for our mutual benefit, to guard agaihs 
a pernicious practice, which is injurious to our health, 
standing and families, do pledge ourselves as gentle - 
men and ladies, that we will not drink any spirituous or 
malt liquors, wine or cider, and that we will in all 
suitable ways discourage their use in the community. 

The privilege of voting shall belong' to represehfa- 
tives from the local societies, and no society shall be en- 
titled to a greater representation than one for ever 
twentvfive members; but no society shall be debarred 
from sending one representative. 

Articles. — This society shall Bold its annual meetings' 
on the first Thursday in September of each ye^af . 

Article 9th. This Constitution may be amended at 
any an'nual meeting, by a vote of two thirds the mem 
bers present. 

The following individuals were elected officers. 
■ John Grimes, President. 

Vice Presidents. — ,SitasTuttle, Daniel Dehari, Jsic h 
L. Brotherton, James L. Woodruff, Archibald Swift. 

Cs*\ Secretary.— Rev. Mr. Ridtcl of Whippany. 

Recording Secrelery. — E. L. Blyth.iug. do 

Treasurer. — G. W. Esten, Boonlon. 

Executive Committee. — Henry R'. Hedges, Calvin 
Howell, Henry Belden, B. B. Griswold, S. V. CdrYdity 
Fi Stone, Edward Howell, Wm. Conek'in, H, P. 
Green, Morris Johnson, Thovuis Riley, Marcus EvariS, 
S. A. Cnndit, John Ivlaxiieki, John Grannis. 

It was then 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be autho 



■ The Executive Committee of the State Society. 
«k>es not reel it their duty, under the exhausted state of 
their treasury, to employ an agent at present. A circu- 
lar will be sen: to the active Liberty men in the State in 
a few daj s, on the subject of funds and organizations, 
and we wiil leave the matter principally for that com- 
mittee. But we hope the friends in every p ace will 
organize Liberty Associations without delay; get the 
nam^sof all pledged h». some form, to support the prin- 
ciples of liberty. Cannot some one or mow be found 
in each county, to volunteer, and get up the village or- 
ganizations. The editor of the Freeman will go any- 
where in Morris County and assist in the matter, and 
the Rev. Mr. Belden of BoOSton will go on the same 
business any where in the counties of Warren, Sussex, 
atad Passaic, without charge. Who will do likewise in 
the same or other counties ? Now is the time for ac- 
tion. Tracts can be had at ve^'low terms of • Lewis 
Tappan, New York, and ^arrangements will probably 
soon be made to have depositaries in several places 
within our own state. 



ties, we have seen peace, happiness, arid prosperity car- I rized to employ an ogent, provided a way can be de- 
tied to thousands of famdies of our fellow beings, who j vised of raising funds to pay with; also 'to. take sue- 
, ,, , ,. ■"' . j * ,., i other measures as will tend to advance the objects oi 

had long been strangers to everything that renders In- 



valuable; we have seen the prison doors unlocked, and 
thousands of beings stamped with the image of God, 
released from bondage to the tyrant Alcohol; — we have 
seen lunatics restored to their right mind, the sick heal- 
ed, the blind made to see, the deaf to hoar, the lame to 
walk, the hungry fed, the naked clothed, and if we 



the Society. 

Resolved, That, the proceedings of this Convention 
be published in all the papers printed in thjfi County. 
The Convention then adjourned. 



Striking to the purpose. 
An invalid sent for a physician, and after dctainiBfj 



.1 , 1-1 1 .1. 1 1\U IMVUlRi 51'Ul I'll .1 U/IV.-iKUU. UUU HilVI <J> . txmii. 

have not seen the dead .raised, we have seen thousands i „ , ' ?),;.■• • , e> , 

' ! him Some time wiui a description ol his pains, acne;. &: 



of immortal Accountable beings rescued from premature 
graves, and believing that while these societies continue 
.based upon pure benevolence, as they have heretofore 
been, they will continue, with God's blessing, to be the 
most efficient instrumentalities in the temperance cause: 



he thus summed urh-t "Now, doctor, you have hum- 
bugged me long enough with your good- for-nothing pill-: 
ancTworthJess syrup*; they don't touch the real difficul- 
ty. I wish you to strike at the real cause of my aiJmeii 
if it is in your power to reach it." "It shall be done, 
said the doctor, ;tt the same time lifting his cane, and 



ed by a bystander with a complaint for opening a run* 
hole on the Sabhoth. Sig. of Lib. 



we therefore agree to form such a society for this coun- j demolishing a decanter of gin that stood upon the sid 
ty, and adopt the following j board. Liberty Pjres's'. 

CONSTITUTION. j An Albany barber, while exercising his art u po v. 

A .. , . . rp,. . . , „ , , » r . j dram-drinker last Sunday, chanced to open his custom 

• Article 1st. lhis society shall be called the Morris , it i i ,u... 

J | er's mouth, whereupon he was verv property tbacawn- 

Courity Washington Temperance Benevolent Society. 

Article 2d. The object of this society is toreliev 
and reclaim the drunkard, and lead him by acts of mer- 
cy and kindness to reformation and union with us, and 
to do all we can to advance the glorious cause of tempe- 
rance, and extends its blessings to the whole human 
family. 

Article 3rd. The officers of this society shall be a 
President, five Vice Presidents, a corresponding' Secre- 



THE TEMPERANCE CONVENTION. 

This meeting in consequence of the almost impassable j appointed. 

state of the roads, and other difficulties, was not large; j Article 4th. The duties of the President and Vice 

the delay in getting together, and the shortness of time j Presidents, Secretaries, and Treasurer, shall be such as 

before the concert in the evenings rendered it riecetsary • usually devolve upon such officers. 

to do up the business expeditiously, end we regret that j Article 5th. It shall be the duty of the executive 

the officers are not more, distributed through the county. ! committee, to call special meetings, to examine, and en- 

But this matter can be made right next September. | dorse by their chairman, all bills proceeding from the 

We trust much good will grow out of this organization. ! committee, and they shall draw upon the Treasurer 

| for all sums required to defray the expenses of the So- 

' niLb_™*! r< ' iiiJ. _riLu .H* • r< . , ty; and make all contracts subject to such rules as the 

Jr> Tbc W«t.ve Committee of the Moms Couflty s ^ iet shall a(k t . J 

Washington!. B. Society, will meet at the house of, ■. ;. , * „ . . , • , , ■ 

A. D. Lyon in Parsippany, on Saturday 15th. March' Article 6th '. . The &ocl£,t y ma y make such by-laws 
184S, at 3 o'clock P. M. jfrotri time to rime as maybe deemed expedient, pro» ; i- 

Mr. J. M. Brown is requested to be present. ^ed ^ e y ^° not ' n an y AVa y conflict with any article in 
' . j this constitution. 

- The "Rev. C. T. Torrey has been set to weaving. | Ajticle 7 " This Societ y shal! " reccive as Members 
A New York Editor says he will weave, the winding I a11 who ado P t trie ™Ho^Sflg pledge, 
sheet of Slavery. 1 "We v/ho»c ljames are hereunto annexed, desirous of 



Deacon Holy Pucker and his .clerk. — A Fact:— 
Jarri'-S have vou -;\S-pt the Stor- this morn 'tig :' ' Ye- 
sir.' ' Watered the rum and sanded tHe sugar?" Ye.-. 

Mixed the piaster in the flour ?' ' Yes. ' ' Wcl'.cen •> 
in and nitetidl prevers. ' 

It migb fi ve be<>d a'idf-rl. 'Got the ballots for the 
tary, Record i"ig.SecreUir£, Treasurer, and an Executive ! s'aveholdfrs ready V 'l 7 cs.' '^ell, come in aiidai- 
Committee of fifteen, fiv<' of whom shall be a quorum ! tend prayers. r - — Lib. Sianderd. 
for the, transaction of business — these officers shall be ; 
elected annually, and continue in office until others afe j 



A Territory applying lor admission as a state, has 
heretofore required a population of 70,6S0. Florid;;, 
has about 60,000 inhabitants including slaves, and tin 
slave interest requires that she be admitcd into tit- 
Union as a State without delay. 

Shall it be done 1 , 



'Johjri. how I wish ii was us much Hje fasl 



tr. de wives, as i' is to trade horses." 
"Whs so! Jim?" 

"I'd ehea, somebody mosi sIkk 
night !" ' 



ine bad ft&>; 



CUBA. — It i» said there, are now, 450,000 le.& •■ 
Slaves in Cuba, than .have been imported into that K: 
and since 1764 
What has become of those, and the increase .by birtb< 

" O Slavery ! disguise thyself as thou wilt, stii! tlici 
nrt a hit for draught 



I 



PROSPECTUS 

Of aWcefcly Newspaper in 

CINCINNATI, O., 

ENTITLED 

The Christian Politician, 

The Christian Politician. I intend shall be the advo- 
cate of Truth, mall religious, political and social rela- 
tions, and not the advocate of narty lor there is some- 
thing more important tnan nami-s, something more glo- 
rious, more ennobling, more immortal, than phraseol- 
ogy, more precious than the perishable material in 
•which God his chosen to invest his Virgin Daughter 
<'ii Earth, and that 13 Truth herself. 

I believe the Bible to be the great Repository of 
Moral Truth ; the only authoritative Written 
Rule op Faith and Practice; a sufficient Direc- 
tory to- Heaven ; 

That G 'd has made of one blood all nations of the 
Earth; ha> as all ages, all eolors, all conditions in life 
will stand n the same platform at the Judgement, 
c. ii h no ieequaliu exempt in character, 60 the_\ should 
stand together pft Earth ; 

That God never delegated to one creature unlimited 
power over another; that voluntary slave-holding is sin 
hi all cases, sin in all circumstances, sin. forever; that 
the church in particular should withdraw herself from 
all participation in this guilt; that Ged now eommandeth 
all men everywhere to-repent >, 

That .iar is antagonistical to the spirit of the Gospel 
which breathes and inculcates a spirit of Peace, that 
flie followers of the blessed Jesi:s should emphatically 
be in principle and practice, the followers of the 
Prince of Peace; 

Tin drunkards, fornicators, adulterers, idolaters, the 
covetous revilers extortioners and such like, are no 
more fit to partake of the emblems of Chi ist's broken 
, body and spilt blood, than they will be to sit down in 
he.ivcn at the great Marriage. Supper of the 
Lamb; ' 

I hat it is the duty of Christians, as sneeddy as pos- 
sible, to give the pare and unadulterated Gospel to the 
whole world; ! hat the spirit of Christianity is in truth 
the spirit of missions, n id that even Christian has' a 
part to perform in this Great* Work. * • • 

In accordance with these views I shall endea or t<> 
encourage everv movement by any part or denomina- 
tion, the object ami tendency of which may be to ■m- 
pro-ve the suei d virtues, the political gemd the moral 
haraeter. and the religions affections. *. # • 

I wish it to be well understood that I pledge myself 
to net 0 e >artv to advocate its i"easurev But I do 
pledge myself to all parties. to adv. cite what I conceive 
to bo their r/oocf principles and their good measure)}. * * 
WM. HENRY BRISBANE. 

Cincinnati. O., Jan. 10th. 1845. 

TERMS — Single subscribers, $1.50, in a.lv-tnce, $0, 
I » five subscribers at tae same P< s> Cffice. in advance. 



DIE It. 

At Parsippany, on Wednesday the 5th February 
inst, Mr. Jonathan Grimes, aged 72 years. 

On the 21st inst., at the house of her Son-in-law, 
Wm. Bertholf in Powerville N.J., Mrs. Polly Perry 
of Owego, New York, aged 65 years. 

At Aurora, Illinois, on the 15 January last, .Mrs. 
Lavinia B., wife of the Rev. Wm. L. Parsons, aged 
34 years. 



- - -* - • Yxoni "the True American. 
HOW THE SOUTH GETS WITNESSES. 



A Polk Majority. A day or two before the Election 
in this county, says the Missisippi Guard, two negroes 
were discussing politics, and from words they came to 
blows. The owner of one of the negroes, hearing the 
rumpus, thrashed both of them, giving the Clay negro 
ten lashes, and the Polk negro fifteen. The latter, afu r 
valking about a huridred yards, shrugged his shoulders 
and shouted at the- top of his lungs, "Hurrah for Polk! 
fire ahead yet."— Jour. Com. 

These two negroes are an exact type of. the two pro- 
j-lavery parti s at 'the i\orth. The slaveholders thrash 
them both, and fleece }hem both; but they are as keen 
at the game of politics right after it as ever. "Hurrah 
for Clay," "Hurrah for Polk," shout the whipped slaves 
— and the one that is whipped the hardest shouts the 
loudest. Look at New Hampshire for example. — 
lfost.cn Chronicle. 

fa'f* Sentenced. Madison J. Mullen, lately, convicted 
in the Parish of Union La. for using language to slaves 
calculated to excite insubordination among them, was 
sentenced to 21 years hard 'labor in the penitentiary a. 
Baton Rouge. V. Y. I'lebian. 



From the Liberty Herald. 

A Slave's reason for Absconding. 

I would Uot live alwav I'd rather not stay, 
In this land of oppression, were tyrants bear sway ; 
Where the wife ol my you'h from my b»som is torn; 
And far away so"th by the shu ehuluers borne. 

I would not live alway, where bloody scenes are. 
And look on those faces long furrowed with care; 
Or bare my ow; back to the slave driver's lash, 
Nor be bought and sold for the task master's cash. 

I would not live alwav, where my flesh and bone 
Could never be, never, no never my own ; 
Midst cruel oppressors, whose hearts hard as steel, 
Could never for poor crushed humanity feel. 

I would not live alwav, wher .the slaveholder's la si. 

Is Ljiven so freely, instead o the cash, 

To induce us to labor by night and by day, 

And these man stealing nabobs pocket the pay. 

I would not live alway, where Christianity bright, 
Is never permitted 10 shed its sweet li ^ tit , 
But the alack man is doomed in ignorance to dwell; 
And his soul goes um ared for down swiftly to hell. 

I would notlive alway, where the slave-driver's rod, 
h superior far to he law of his God — 
Where the marriage relation is broken for nought, 
Aud our wives and our daughters are sold and bought. 

I would not live alway, where freedom's a name, 
The bare mention of which my bosom must pain; 
And waere I must never expect to lie free. 
Or enjoy but a taste of wh .t's called Li:>orty. 

I would not live alway, but now bid farewell 
To this land where no kinoly Samaritans dwell, 
That will bind up our vvouuds or give ear to our griefs, 
Who hav h..d the mishap 10 fall among thieves. 

Then farewell ye land of oppression's dark reign! 
Determined am I e,y own righ s to regain; 
And if from the Eagle's proud taions I flee, 
In the paws of the Lion better days may I see. 

D. SAVAGE. 

.•Parkman, 0. 



The following advertisement, which we copy from the 
Charleston Courier of Jan. 3, 1845, shows how they get 
proof to convict men, who they ma> chance to suspect 
of showing kindness to their fellow mwi who have had 
the misfortune to fall "among thieves." No wonder 
they have convicted Torry, Walker, Miss Webster and 
others. 

"ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS REWARD 

will be paid for proof to convict any white, or r sponsi» 
ble person of color, of harboring my Coachman WILE* 
who absconded on the 7th inst. Twenty dollars reward 
will be paid for lodging him in the Work House." 

JOHN L. NOWELL. 



Liberality. Rev. Charles. T. Torrey, is permited 
to write to his wife, once in three months, and on busi- 
ness matters oftener, if absolutely necessary. He is not 
permited to answer his correspondents, but can receive 
their letters, provided, — 1. That the postage is paid. 
2. That they contain no allusion to slavery derogatory 
to the character of the institution. 3 . That they contain 
no information of what is. going on in the world. 

A learned doctor has given it s his opinion, that 
tieht lacing is a public benefit, insomuch as it kills off 
the foolish girls, and leaves the wise ones for < omen. 

Youths Cabinet. 

* Will you take a pinch of snuff Mr. Sprigging?" 
"No thank vou, if mv nose had been intended for a 
dust hole, it would have been turned the uther side 

up, 



$3f»Valuable improvement ! 'It is said the much 
celebrated manure, Guano, is extensively used in the 

manufacture of Snuff. The deleterious properties of 

the Tobacco are no doubt very much diminished there- 

by 



Temperance Houses. 

ALBERT GURNEE, Paterson. 
Please forward the names, and thus favor a temper- 
ance community. 



The lorong manhanyed! — A Liverpool paper says 
that Wm. Towns, a solder in the 2lst Fazileers. ntwin 
India, has confessed that it was he who dashed out the 
brains if a ga.ee keeper in Essex, about 9' years ago 
■ nd that a man named Chalker, who was executed for 
the' murder, was innocent. 



The Alpaca. — We think it has been published that 
one of these animals had been imported into New York. 
But, ai all events, it may be of interest to observe that 
the Alpaca yields a fleece of seventeen pounds of fine, 
long silky wool. — Some of these animals have been car- 
ried to England and Scotland. They cannot live in a 
hot climate, but thrive on the Andes, and are said to be 
very hardy. Their flesh is something between mutton 
and venison. We should think these animals might do 
well on the rocky hills of Maine and Vermont. It is 
said they would live where sheep would starve. 

As they travel well, they might be summered on the 
highest mountains all .along the Alleghany ridge, and 
■■' Entered in the valleys, as is done with the Merino sheep 
a 'pain, and they are kept with little or no fodder. 

Signal of Liberty. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel are for 
sale at thi- office. 

This is superior to any thing of the kind we have 
seen and should be in tbo possession of every one- that 
loves good inustcjtand loves to make a good use of it. 
P ice. 44 c nts. 



Congregationalism and 
Church Action: 

WITH the PRINCIPLES of CHRISTIAN UNION, 

BY JOHN KEEP, 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. 

This is the title of a Duodecimo Volume just publish- 
ed, heinji a faithful exposition of thejust pnwerso) eccle- 
siastical bodies, the rights of individual members, and 
the evils ef Sectarianism. It is a work tbat should be 
read by every man and woman in the land. A few cop- 
ies may be had of Rev. Henry Belden v Boonton: tJ5cts. 



Buonton Washington Temperance Benev- 
olent Society, — meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church. John Maxfield, 
President, Fredrick Stone, Secretary. 

Boonton Liberty Association, — nieeis the 
first Friday evening of every month. 
M. Evarts, President; C. B. Noras, Sec. 



i 





VOL. I. 



BOONTOIT, MARCH , 



S 0 . 11. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHxN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor 
Boonion, Morris County, New Jersey. 

TERMS. 

Single oopy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

10 copies- to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afforu 
to pay postage. 



For the New Jersey Freeman. 

Thau^Eifs ofi Slavery. 

NO. 1 

It has been wisely enjoined by the great and all con 
trolling power of the Universe, that in all the various 
relations of life, there should exist between Jhan and mai: 
a constant fe-ling of reciprocal symyathy. To .his end 
there is implanted in the heart of every rational creature 
a principle which when uninfluenced by passion is ca- 
pable of deciding with accuracy, whatever constitutes 
either an act kindness or injury Hence we need never 
hesitate Tor a moment, to know when to exercise an act 
of humanity m behalf of those who implore it. 

All iha! is necessary Is to ask ourselves, whether the 
situation from whence proceeds the entreaty, would if 
incident to ourselves, be entitled to the commisseration 
of others. Happy indeed would it be for humanity, if 
this course were universally adopted and pursued. But 
how many are there who tie er think of the unfor tunate 
until coorpeBcd by rfilsfor.nne, to endure the same suf- 
ferings themselves. A whole community may groan 
beneath the accumulated w rongs of ages, and scarce re- 
ceive from the world a pitying glance. And why? Be- 
cause the world is comparatively insensible to their woes. 

Do any ask the proof? If so, let them turn for a mo- 
ment o .be Southern States of this Soi disaht Repub- 
lic, and there gaze upon the condition of the millions of 
human beings, whom tyranny, remorseless and iron ner- 
ved, hath robbed of every heaven descended right, and 
blotted as it were from the scale of humanity. From 
this wronged and hopeless people, the appeal of mere 
is daily arid hourly ascending to the throne of a righ 
eoiis God, whilst their entreaties for human commisera 
tion, are wafted on every breeze that sweeps from th<- 
land of manacles and chains. 

The melancholy story of their wrongs has been told 
times unnumbered, and .Philanthropy with her myri 
ads cf ceaseless tongues, is still echoing the sarc: ' 
tala. And yet the people of the north, with all theii 
boasted magnanimi*y and professed attachment to thi 
principles of human liberty, and firm adherance to the 
cause of Christianity, bv which are strictly inculcated be , 
nevolence, humanity and universal love, regard the . hoi 
with feelings of apparent indifference. Almost in vain 
have' the agonizing scenes of their every day suffering:- 
been pictured to their view. In vain have they heard 
of the countless market places, upon whose bloody 
shambles, the image of the immaculate God is daily bar 
tered for a paltry piece of gold. And in vain have they 
heard of the outlawed fugitive from the iron grasp of 
oppression, hunted like wild beasts through swamps an 
evergrlades, by bloodhounds, aud human fiends, armed 
with weapons of death. 

But should misfortune once frown upon those misan- 
thr : pists and change their condition to that of the slaves 
they w ould doubtless call down the wrath of God upon 
their oppressors, and look upon an unfriendly world in 
the same light as the slaves now groaning beneath the 
crushing v. iight of despotic power, is wont to look upon 



ie& Bu . it is urged by them that the representations 
f ai i< s. oerpe rated upon the. slaves, which foi years 
nave been scat, red before, every community by the free 
press of Lhe land, and the fearless champions of human 
rights in the shape of abolhion lecturers, are ullely false, 
wiihou a shadow of foundation, un'ii .herefore uuwbrthy 
ot b :iie£ — '.hat they ^annot reconcile an iuea to absurd 
as thai, of any portion, of a people descended from the 
patriots of the Revolution, and acknowledging the sen- 
timents of Washington, Jefierson and their illustrious 
compeers, exercis ing such absolute despotism over th . 
lives of human .beings. 

How very strange is ibis ! They can believe every 
thing else but this. They can credit every iota related 
by the host of historians concerning the hardships and 
sufferings endured by the American colonies, a; the hand 



of the British Parliament. They can credit the Story of 
he barbarities inflicted by the merciless Ottoman of 
Turkey, upon the unoffending inhabitants of Give : =\ 
They can credi: the every day account of ruthless tyr- 
any, exercised by the despot of Rusia over the unhappy 
Polanders, who have long been striving to secure for 
themselves the blessing;, of'civil and religious liberty; 
and they can also give full credence to the enormities 
practiced by the church of Rome in the age of inquisi- 
torial tortures, besides a thousand other things of like 
nature, no", only in modern, but also in ancient times. 
But when 'hey are presented with the true stories of 
American Slavery, they feel great reluctance in believe- 
ing them. 

W. H. S. 



From the Liberty Press. 
Andrea Jacksor. 

The name here presented is not that associated with 
th< glorious ac': v . men is of New Uih ans, yet dear me, 
however ir.c;,i. ..e .able it may be to others, nor is it 
mine .o boas of 'having swayed the scepter of a nomi 
naily free people STe; my shor. career is no; altogether 
without striking events, of which 

"1 will a round, unvarnished tale deliver." 
Though my skin be black, yet of a truth I can say, I 
was thrown into life under ih. glorious safe-guard of the 
American Insignia of LIBERTY, My education (prii 
cipally moral) was conducted by Rev. Geo. Wail, of 
the M. E. order, of Warren county. Ky. 1 was always 
told by iiim that i was free, as also had been my :.. oilier, 
v.. ose Condition, agreeably to law, 1 am to follow. 

Afer the lamented death of my Rev. good guardian, i 
was seized as a slave by his adminisiratoi and sold a 
pubiie auction. B -ing asked while on the stand, what 
1 thought myself worth ? 1 rep ied, not a. dollar — hot 
any thing, 16 any man thai buys me as a slave — I an. 
a free man and no slave, — 1 will runaway. I was then 
liormed my services only would be soid, the avails of 
• t.ich should b°. at my disposal and was struck off at 
144 per year. ( 

The master into whose hands this kindness had pla- 
ced me, was d sirous 1 should ^.s - the talent I had ac- 
quired 1 at the hand of my Rev. t:i. nd to his advantage 
so I was ordain d a minister to pr-ach Christ and him 
crucified; pa, but master and km- spotless — for he in 
strutted me w hat o say . and then would appear in a by 
corner to hear if I said it right. ' He belonged to th< 
sum- church with me, and of course had an undoubted 
right to attend. 1 must confess it was beyond a Negro's 
di pth oi tl ought to explain to the slaves the rightful 
nesis of master to require us to labor on Sunday upon a 
turnpike job. the avails of which we were to spend for 
hoots and shoes at his stor», to be worn oir in his Ser- 
vice. 

One dnyi id my perfect surprise, I was informed tl 
so far from securing wages, 1 was to be sold a ,-lavi to 
another matte i , upon which 1 turned my eye to the 
iNorth Star, to which I have paid many an evening de- 
votion sine -. O. glorou* Star !, Ride on-iti the cool 
emhiaces of the chaste North ! Thou hast shown many 
an unforttmatr on ; where wa« safety from the talons of 
t hf .-rue! Eagb thai feedeth tlijse of her charge with 
the carcasses of the unfortunate. 



At my d parture, I had but few friendly hands -o take 
m a last fare* oil. My grandmother i ieit m tears, mv 
own eyes betrayed th. same w-akr.es>,.' But what ore 
tea's, and wan filial amotion; mother was not 

and my father, if living, w orse than dead — a slave ' 
Liberty , Liberty before, and eternal slavery tehino 

Sallying forth, 1 commended myself to God. and ad-* 
dressing myself to persevering dilig-nce, relt 'my v.a-*'"-" 
through th-.- snares. of long headeu rnensters, and "elm P <] 
the pursuit of k-en-scvnu.d dogs, (that we're almost con- 
stantly at my heels) by walkmgW brooks, whose course 
lay toward the land of erty. and, not •' unfre- 
queoUi) , being sprung upon In n,. u f rom ambush, with 
bloody bludgeons, and pursued by men on horse-back 
over open fields, 1 was obliged to extricate myself by 
f arful personal exvrlon. aiming myself with whatever 
weapon ot defence Providence seemed to throw in mv 
way. By Strang- m and b« many little devices, such 
as running backw ards in sandy parts ©f the road, so that 
my tracks' might seem to radical traveling in an opposite 
direction, and a thousand other little make shifts, ecmon- 
lyd, nominated by hook and by crook, I .managed to 
reach the Ohio, which 1 scrupFec but liule to cross in a 
boat found secured to the shore. After dockinr the lit 
tie boat on dr land that it might be found by its owner, 
I gave it a formal farewell, for, to me, «h had broaght 
Caesar «nd all his fortunes." I turned and ha}led the 
land of Liberty. — Thinking the difficulties, with which 
my progress had been continually asailf>d, were now 
comparatively over. I moved forward with more bold- 
n'ess. But soon, casting my eye over mj shoulder i 
found myself pursued by traitors to fmmanuv. and only 
owed my escap- to a frightful precipice over which I 
.leaped, just escaping two balls that whist ed over rni 
le ad, but was safe for the night. Next day I v. as pur- 
sued/, taken and imprisoned in the FREE State of] 
nois. 

Six weeks rolled aw ay — no own°r caine I was or- 
dered to the auction block by the Sheriri and mj ser- 
vices sold for ;;7,bH for a month, at. the expiraWn of 
which time. I was to fall into the sheriff s hands and be 
re-sold and re-sold till die full charges were satisfied 
amounting to upwards of 535. Bu< a Mf.'R. R. Hop- 
per a Friend, by whom my services were purchased, 
being satisfied by my labor for the amount he w bal- 
den for, I ran away before my month w as ite up 

my Quaker Friend telling me not to run to bur, nu 

my conscience giving me but little uDeasiness about th j 
ballance of the Sheriff's jail fees. 

After laboring a w hile in Wisconsin to procure some 
clothes, I commenced a: Milwaukie to talk publickly, 
by request, to white people as master had tafi'ghl me fo 
pi each to his slaves, i. e to tew* harder. And I have 
been since and afn still preaching the same doctrine. 

How ever inconsiderable 1 may be to others, f must be 
su posed' to be something to myself. So feels those 
whom I have left behind: though de graded, yet do not 
despair of attaining self respect and esteem among thi m • 
selves, if freedom shall ever throw the tegis of her pro- 
tection around their honored efforts. 



-ANDREW JACKS O.N 
By his friend, agreeably to his request, 

M. S. BAIL'i 

Paris Hill. Jan. 15, 1845. 



Arrival. — James K Polk, the President elect, ar- 
rived at Washington on the 6th instam: He was receive 
by crowds of gaping blockheads, and anxious expect- 
ants, w ith extravagant demonstrations of that man-«vor- 
shiping spirit, w hich is so prevalent in these degenerate 
imes, and which is so disgraceful to a people professing 
to be republican.':. — F e< Labor Advocate, 



Pennsylvania. — A great Liberty Convention has re- 
cently been held in Philadelphia, and active measures 
are taken to establish a Liberty paper in that city. 



Slavehoi ding Chivalry. — Miss Susan Yates has 
been committed to jail in St. Louis, under a charge of 
aiding her fellow b< ings to escape from "the vilest slave- 
ry that eveiesaw the sun." 



— ' -w«r.fr- 



THE YEW JERf'EY 

FREEMAN, 



a., tm'ow oft' the mask — 'usaoobVvcD oat a<. u^ai, 
■ orkJ will see through it. It will not do thus to 
philosophers, and act like unrelenting tyrants; 
. -petually sermonizing, with liberty for our text 
, iuial oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. Pinchncy, of Maryland. 

1 . :i2 things that.havc beauty, there is nothing to man 
more come ly than LIBERTY MiUon. 



PSHAW : YOU LOiVT DO IT RIGHT. 
The following i^'one of Mr. Cough 's admirable illusl 
tra .ions. 

j doct believe in any one man looking on and gruml 
blrng — Sliding fault with the work of others. Matrl 
men will say, "You don't go the right way to work,! 
w no never take bold themselves. It puts me in mmdL 
of si circumstance which happened in Boston. A carfcl 
man was driving a heavy load down the street, whej 
one o: the wheels got into a hole. A gentleman on th( 
sidewalk, seeing tlie difficulty said, as he stood with his 
-i.iim! * in the arm-holes of his. waistcoat, "Now driver 
iik i Did of the horse's head — give him a cut — now. 



1'he next number of the Freema n completes the hs 
we originally engaged to publish once a momh. VV • 
.. sen undecided whether to continue it as a month 
- :■' weekly, on acount of the move making to es- j 
h a weekly paper in Newark.— It seems to be 
jsary however that we should come to a decision, &. 
hare decided to continue the Freeman once a month, 
-, rate; and if the effort to establish a weekly, at 
some v. * place in the State proves a failure, we will 
... n 1 out the Freeman every week. — We wish the 
qi the cause would try to increase the circulation j 
paperj-and we will endeavor to make it moiej 
tiy of patronage.— ■ If our friends kne the circum- ! 
nces unoer which the Freeman has been published,! 
id of wondering why it has not been better, they j 
would wonder why it has been pupiished at ml; give us a , 
B , . . -j, and we will try to make the Freeman better. 



;.■> We have just received intelligence that a friend 
of I. :vs acceded in bringing the case of a girl 
claimed as a slave under the laws of this State, with 
htscavSitit beforfi the supreme Court of the State by 
which the existence of Slavery under the new constitu- 
te wS4*«f«tly tested. The question will be argued 
besfere a full court in May. 

- ■ : . tnted to carry this matter through as it 

idd Be: Who will contribute ? 
Fundi r.. y be sent to T. V. Johnson Newark, James 
How^ of Jersey City, Wright Flavell of Paterson, Dr. 
C. F. Ciark of Woodbury, Peter Ellis of Croswicks, 
and at this offiioe. The money will be wanted in 
May. rA 1 • 

TRACTS. — We expect in a few cays to receive a 
qu . .. i of Liberty tracts, and intend to keep an assort- 
tat Lt on haw*** the puposc of supplying individuals 

. associations at the wholesale prices for distribution 
Let all who feel any interest in the cause of liberty, go 
to work- get up organizations, collect money, procure 
aad distribute the tracts; arrangements are making to 
Have tract depositories in other more convenient places, 
in our next we will give a list of tracts, and point 
out the places where they can be had. 



C M< '.'l*v. — Wcn;ive the access of this gen le.raan 
to tie- j >uj!i' of Kentucky on the subject of slavery. 
..oi having room for 1 ngthy do'cuta jnis in our small 

tj er v. iii'.ended to abridge it somi wi.ai, but as i: has 
b en verj difficult to kn..w what conid be best ioft out, 
we have given nearly the whole oi it. It is a valuable 
document coming from a Slave Suite. He goes for ail 
that the Liberty party asks, though he has not as yet 
published himself a Liberty parly man. Perhaps he 
thinks '.hat at present he can exert a more powerful in- 
fluence in a State where dta: Party is little and iijstood, 
and much hated, by not identifying himself with any 
organized ami-slavery party. He : s now telling tile 
people, what the abolitionists have been telling, tor ten \ (Eratftt v. en. the whip: "Get up! shouted the driver 
years pas:, but what the great mass have been unvvi.kng j the hi r.«? made a desp rate efiort, but all in. vain. "Ohj 
to hear. He sees slavery as it is and with a feariese. \ s 1 pshak* f* said the gentleman on the sidewalk, "you don't 
and independence that commands our respect arid ad- do is rrrht! This operation was repeated, but with no 
miration, has grappled wtih the monster in his den. j bette! f success, and was followed by this exclamation oj 
• He is about establishing an Anti-Slavery paper in ; dissa lisfaction by the good gentleman on the wall 
Kentucky, and is determined that the subj ct shall be i "Oh , pshaw: you don't do right," At length an oi 
fully & i'ar'y discuss d; success to him we say.' j blacl : man went out into the street, took of! his coat, 

The following letter to Gcrret Smith shows that he and iavir.g Ids should, r to the wheel, he said, '"Now 
understands what sort of an enemy he has grappled with, boss give him a cut! — altogether, and away went th 
that he has counted the cost, and prepared himself fori ait. There area great many people just like thi: 
the contest. Kentucky will yet be proud of Casslus M. 
Clay. 

Lexington, Kv , Feb. 14, 1S45. 

G. Smith, Esq. 

My Dear Sin :■— You wrote tome some time si re 
Inquiring w hat I am about. You ill see i'rom the wiu, 
within Prospectus. They threaten my life as usual, 
and 1 fear i; may go hard with me- - but I was born a 
freeman, and 1 in tend to die one . 1 hays about 2* 
subscribers in this county ami hope for more. .Will ire 
north not send us in 5 or 6000 names to the help of the 
greaf cause of the day ? You may suppose we don't 
go far enough. We go as far as v, e can to do good. Let 
us judge for ourselves. 

Rmember me to Mrs. Smith. 

In great baste, 

Your friend and serv't. 

C. M. Clav. 



• uac', they stand off, make no effort to push forward th( 
;r of temperance themselves, and are yet continually 
comiplaining — Oh pshaw! you don't do it right!' Now 
w e want these gentlemen v. bo seem to know, allabout it 
to «do as the old black ma did — put their shoulders to 
he wheel, and help us to do it right 



The Presbytery of Chilicothe, Ohio, (Old School 
h as 'adopted a resolution, by a vote of 25 to 7, declaring 
t! nat if the Gene ml Atestibly at its next meeting shall re 
f use or neglect to lake such action as is calculated irn 

ran dBately to free the church from the sin and scandal 

of slaveholdinq, then the Presbytery ought to cease al! 

further ccclcs-easticai connection or fellowship with sail 

Assembly: 



What has the Church to do with Slavery: 
Rj;v. Dr. Richard Fuller, \ybo is writing letters in j 



THE NEW JERSEY SENATORS. 
Mr. Dayton in his anti-annexation speech in. the Sen- 
I rite bragged that they had fewer abolition votes in his 



state, he believed, than they had in South Carolina! 

repl td Dr. Wayland, m defence of slavery, is the own- ' v ' ., 

1 „ „ „. " , , j'.i So savs tne Moraine Chronicle, 

er of from 7o to SO slaves: he says be dont know ex- ; , 

, , rr . , • » ! Mr. Miher in his speech on the same subject, savs a 

actly how many. H - affirms i hat slavery is sanctioned 'j fi|] 

tion thus : "On the subject of slavery he denied the 
i power of Congress to touch it any way— to act for o: 
against it— that his own state had abolished slavery— 

Texas.— Texas is not yet aim xed; let us do all v- M***™ iini< ' ,,lodo for Hr-** his P lan0 ^ 

can to prevent its final consuraation, if we fail, it wF 1 •' miuicipai.on was to send the Africans (!) back to then 



Dorrespeadent of the Albany Patriot, defined hisposil 

by the Father Son, and Holy Ghost; that if you would ! ,* <</s ., , . ./ r ,„. .L_ l. , • , ., _i 

jirove slavery sin, you must h 
crty Prss. 



:ve a new 



Bible 



STATE SOCIETY. 

A quarterly meeting of the New Jersey State Ami 
Slavery Society will be held in the city of Newark, on 
Tuesdaj j the 13th day of May next, at 10 o'clock A. 
M. Meetings wilt be h<dd in the afternoon and even- 
ing. - 

March 20, 1845. 



be in a good cause 
done our dutv. 



and wi shall then feel that we hat.c f*** rtmn 



End of the Cuba Slave Trade. — The Can* air. j 
General of « uba has issued a proclamation dcc'ariw ; a'l ; 
vessels arriving^ Cuba with slaves on board (Joiiffsca 
ted . — Li bert y Stun d a rd. 



Temperanee 

ALBERT G URN EE, 



Houses. 



Paterson. 



Please forward the names, and thus favor u temper 
ance community. 



LIBERTY ASSOCIATION. 

Subjects for discussion at the monthly meeting of the 
As elation, to be held at the Free Church m 
Boonton, 1st Friday in April. 

I. Has the slaveholder any more moral right to hold 
la i in bondage, than ihe slave has to subject him to 
the same bondage. ' / " 

t Is it not the duty of all men to disregard such 
s^tutes'as contravene the fundamental law of God. the 
red law of Love, «hichsays "Thou shah not d liver 
master the servant whicli has eseap. d from his 
master unto thee: He shall dwell with you, even 
ong you in that place which he shall choose, in one 
. he gates where itlikethhim best: thou shalt not op- 
esBhim." Deut! 23: 15 16 vs. 



L1BEU L'Y PAPKRS. 

The TRUE AMERICAN, a new Liberty Paper, of 
a genuine siampj .jus started at Cortlandvill;, Neyt 
York — Eelesand Goodw in Editors. 

Tn\- BANGOR GAZETTE appears again, after but 
one month's susp nsion, true to ihe cause of Liberty, 
and we trust to live. 

New York! — Th town election returns in this stale 
are'eheering lor the friends of Liberty. In Sjmitbfield 
the Liberty vote is greater than die whig and Demo- 
cratic taken together. 



Maud Drinker. — " I uiders;ji>d," said a deacon to 
bis ndigbor, " that \oti aire becom ng a lined Drinker .'* 
• T i' s aa ler," sa.d the neigh or, "for no nun caj 
r uk easi r.'' — lb. 



A la\ernkeepcr in Nashville, cn the 20lh ult. indu- 
ced two little boys brothers, to drink raw whiskey on a 
. riiling Wager, in consequence of which one of the bro- 

thers died. 



New Hampshire. — Many tow ns in this state give a 
Liberty .majority, The gain throughout the State will 
be abou. fifty per ct n . since las. ^>o\\mber. 

New Jersey. — We are gra.ifiedto learn that the com- 
mittee appointed at the last annual meeting to take 
measures for .-..ailing anew Liberty paper at Newark, 
are pursuing JmeU labors with a prospect oi success- 



There are at the presun time, 122 towns in Massa- 
chus :tis destitute of a grog shop. 

A Contrast. — Who is thai man, so neatly attired 
in the extreme of fashion, w ending his w ay to cAwc*?*] 
' Oh he is a rumseUer." Indeed! And praj* who is 
that poor fellow spraw ling in the gutter?* "Why, 
it is his pu.ron." "Well, 1 dec are, it must be a conso- 
ling reflection to him to know that he is sustained by a 
i lass who cannot sustain ihai.sclvrs.—Mcr. Jour. 



TO THE PEOPLE OF KENTUCKY. 

* * * # V 

To h- people o 'K' n ucky I Wbiim hmiibjv sag 
that I !,m the sot: ot'.oi o of the hYstpToueers of the We 

a man who, in an « 'scure a y, rendered some - rvW 

to his com try, both in the council and i;i the field; h 
-was o of he founders o' the 8t*»e C -nstit-it on. an 
tih services were nntun pproc atod by 'h so who I av 
pc.-pe uated his m-mor , by giving his n une to. ..no 
the counties «• •heC.-mmouweaith. I -p •• k -*>t i>i 
these things in a vai -pi it. or from m-enve. ning filial 
alff t on, but <o remind those men of yeso rduy, h:, 
they are 'presuming too much upon popular credit 
lit- and tludr own si;> -incan -'\ when they set the ui- 
s.-lv. . up as the exclusive guardians of the. horror and 
welfare F the St ite and undo' take to denounce and os 
tracts, me as an cnem of the country". Hum. . soni- 
small in en st n the soil, as in the grtiid nnmej of 
Cummonw a'th. with all my brifiiility and love of equal 
itv, I cannot but giv Utterance to -ome touches ol 
contempt and indisr - ation towards those lewi rsupou hi 
crumbs which fall from o her men's ables. who nftept 
so 01 'ch seoswbil V. abou the pn*p«rit\ dl th count: . 

If here, s in our St-fe something iui roper or da a 
jrerou.sto ne tajfe? I or rin>na out, I put it to ever true 
and manly Kentuckian, if ;ha! tiling >s.not i n rope an 
d.ngerous m its existence a Qugj us? An it .-o is h 
who u ertake to remove th evil, h enemy ■ hi 
c. unir ? Or rather, is hot th' t ma-, whb ? seeing t e 
wr ng, for the sake oT pop darity, and a na row el. 
inters , in opposition t. the • elfare of th gr at mas ol 
the peo 'e, dares not a'ttem t i s e.xt n- i n, a trai or & 
a c w d tr.ly deservi g the i veer tio-t of hi 

C'untivm fit? Iam no' ashamed 'oad ... tth.it I am ! ! e 
ueeoin onvs.ng toe ol t rauny. wherever d sola ed; 
an Iprou 1 avow msself he • terua< en my fsLvey. 
* # # # * 

Br iHiaug -lave . I regard d them with indiffer m . 
seeing no epai ture ora mo als or co omica prog e-s 
in he te ure. T..<- Pmaucipa i n .,..o-e - nt about 
I »3n affe te I nc .s 't did ?6stpefsr>nsau»he i ne; an.. 
| felt • me new and ide-ssing emotions sprmg-n: up in 
ire. b .sMii) w on res.dred, in commo ith nn la 
m nte >i t.-er. to li -era e my sli ves. laut iori^ed m 
to p .t m- na s- olthe Eoifenoipatidu bocii- formed 
;ido t tna une i Al rcer Con >t . In tii s.me yea 

I enj <»n to Y.le oil ge. in a Free.Sta.e. I was not 
blind, and n rel'ore saw a • eop.e 1 \in ther< luxu i us- 
lv on s il QIC her . wo .Id ha^e e n d; em -d th 
the high ro.d to fa (ne and t e ilms h us. V city ol 
ten ot fi eeu thonsa d n.hab teuts ose up the niom- 
ji p as d hroug a!! the busy strifi of the day, and 
lay d ;Wn ga/in at nig tin qu et and -ecur 11 , tnd uoi a 
sin le -olice officer was an 1 whereto '»• se. n. tier 
v.ere more tha.i fiv- hu dre ouni men ortngreg.il d 
from all climes, of vn .-us Bbits -,n i temperaments, "in 
the quid blood of youth a dalle quer ng passiou, d 
there Was not found in all the city; so far as the p.. 1 < 
Avere aware, :i single watnah so fallen as to demand a 1 s 
pric o love hau honor bl ma. riage. A - ray-haire 1 
Judsre ol seventy ye -.rs or more, in alifet me of servio 
aud ha : pronounced -eotencc of' death u^on bat five 
c. iui n Is in a Wiiol. State, and ton e ot the.-e we <• 
bioug d - tor i, ibyiatem erm e. I -ad beeenuiught 

- to regard C. n cctic it as a land of wood n nut eg- 
and lather pu pkm»geed.: -.et there was a laur' oi 
sterility wi h ut pau ers, and peo >Je where no ma 
wast bef i: (I ho could not Write his nam >nd r 
h • Bible. T e^e wer- strange things ; but far m r 
str mge. pas-i <: strange, will it be Kentuck ns , f 
vu sh.'l'. e i oe to the sam con Insion t wh • h I as 
co >ejled — hat lib rty, re gion and ed cat. on w*r 
thecaiiso fall th se.thin.rs, au I the :rue fou -d tion of 
i divi I a ipp u ss m I n-ttio.-.al glory.. 

In r .'5 I inti.idueed <i ommon School bid into th< 

II us Representatives oi' KeutucRy: if 'was lost In 
1S3 Ih U th leisure of vo n for he present com 
mon hool law, m c >in.(ion wiih a ^reat najority of 
tA\ com e. is. Befir-' I -.40, I was cmivin e I that u i- 
vcsaledu a. on n a s; tv State was impossible. 

VV ils Ini w i c, '.he ei:.ht h udred thmisn : do lars 
se' a ide, from th ■ proceeds of the s les of the pupil 
1 nd . for common schools; surrepii . ioush appropriated 
to .ij..jr.iil ».ap; j /j.nMts, cj.ifi. a .n/ eoa^ldsioa. 



T .e.eisnota ,i gl cent in th gr a comm-uwc 1th • great the" he.t.t'if il'tl,,.^ ■ ifflnlHSffi the , 
i'^eetucky pp opnati tu the eel . ation ol'her people 



<J. A. VV ckl ff, ... . i . nve «.io' of.Te c ■ is, i efc4u, 
i F aukt r , sa ci: -'It SI. ve y an C mmo o ho Is be 
o oiwp tible, i say let S.aveiA perish." The si nt rn nt 



t mtg *fea**c»s into ;h- hi id^» trsasuri« of #ivt i ii •• 
n -m e. i»?ik;«jr th* wifd-., rbttiajtevfc 'he : le ami 
•mpa! able < s; 



itm a or Mint .siriluita-yro mar.- 

g>a ideation for (he body UMhiimiR: iavM (•»•:. : 
>as ..et w th tre endons applause. Aleilo. Iv : Uickv!; a ,„} 



imat say you? Tune has proved .hat ihe\ are ioconi- 
,.a bl<-; not * sin - , ie slave State h s succee.eed- , fro.. 
eginnin^, in ih -eu'-ral « du ation o. , ci Citizens. 

oi einor Ha'umotiLl, i.f South C -olina, says in h s 
m s ag to the Legislature: "T e Free School system 
is , failure. Its failure is owin to the .a •. that it does 

ot soil our people or our pover.'m. m ." I0\ .cr.ei.c. 
md ica-ou ave long s nee p ocljirnrd the uriuclcoin 



WW 1 '" to Wofsoulf inc. ro-urisfi . were; rhonght 
and action «r- tHitntmj-vijerij.Mor. iCirir.jr bet! 
.s drif of g»n.os; its omoipot«-na- W U:ix : « -,ad- ;.. ;\ .. 
free. A loose and inad qunte rui-nect fat thctftiaiits of 
P'-oiierry of necessif. fo ows jji. tilt- w..!::e bf slave-,, 
Dufliing bloodshed, :.nd lynch fl i w h-aw lm \k;:<> situ 
riyio ner-wn. A general d.-jn-ra izaiioii has tor, ..p. 
te<l the lii-st mie.s nji -ih. isuio-; is hot e m>u. 



gion has spread anmn..the vdiaia pet-pit; 1 cer„ 
"Whil-t Mr. Wickl.fie wa- s -ecu!, ting I m ac rig. I t '°": ness ' c ' ime ' ** d l,ntl ' r ; a uf i t;a. , , - 

Bv aio of.thelaw of ,«.!3, Ih p, ultima ely to em n | 1K!rJil °"; ;,nJ ti,e ^ !'ro : - -•»,:<•.*,,. <,r s - ;;v , ,y 

uipatt the Stat- from ignorance, p vertv and crime. [*? a "fy& *8 " !ST "sitbe w.a-id in arm-.- i appeal - 
Kgf tucky <:all< : d upon ail her sous, by all the glori u, l ' hMor >'' to rcas ° n ' u ' Ea "*»> •o'cotwionee; >v h ch 
me nories ol the past, by all the fond hopes of the future \ Beith * tl,ne - nor *P ™, -or fe.-.r, in r b-te. nor hope of 

0 resist those who by the rep al hal .aw and a retro- 1 r,:Ward ' nor , Y]m "i pri.U; nor soifisr„.ss:c.« n I tteilv 
r de movement, wouhi sink her into tile eveidur ng 

u ght and lower deep' ■ f perpetual slavery. T.ietime 
had at las come when I was t pi y he selfis time-ser- 
ver for otlic. :.nd op rar\ elev.t ion, or planting- n y 
self upon th et; r d p m iple- of truth, j- st cu and 

1 son. lo'oking lo r use, nee, to po-teruy :ind to God 
o : 11 proudly in their cause. W.,at ough I be a 

fan tie r an e-thus:ast in holding iha' lav rv i 
con ary t th Declarati n o Amer-ca ftidepeudauce 
t e Consti ution oft e United S atos, t ie common iau 
: ■ ur Eng sh n erita ce, .n l m Violation of the laws 
of nat'ure and d God — the eff ct it are be qnd all 
c»utrovoi sy; th mo u e t lh nd oft m- has written 
then, in ehir c ers ofhorri ledi.-;in tness — fnimihg.i e 
dew\ a\c- is in brass and sc th g he 2 een cart 



s ene. Aro not th-.s- fitigstru? A niinuto M „, 
.aMson of the freei an I slave s.a'es, ,-o ol"-cn and ably 
• ade; I forbear, I le ve th s i.stwdhng and'. tiller • roof 
to each man's ohse-v tion % nd rcfUetiow ffl ere is. 
.'•weve:,o!7e c/ns^d ,t».n which 1 wou.d ifa-ge up n 
all, -.ccao-cit fcjcefsA-s .,1 tana, cisrn rm ienti, siasm, 
Ke .tu ky will be ri - her in rd'uu-s and Sen* by email- 
ipat on, and slaveholders will bcwcttitliirtb)/ the chanac. 
I ..ssert !' .,m my nvn k-o (e»%e that \ ,rids of iho 
tome quahty in the fro, , ate from I 0 to .0 ccjit 
i . er in \ alue < an in. the slave ..state-, in some cases 
probabK 81* -utdre p-r Wht hi, her! ' la <!s six 
" i,es ir<,m ! i« c;lia:ti i 0 w, I a m cr. c'i ily Lnf rme !. 
re worth $6 per acre, ihils in Kei« .cl.-y, at the 
same d -tu nee from that city, Hail of \hd ««Wie- quality 
itlisterdiya dec y. The v.hole S...,th c:i s om th€ T "o-w.-rth only $\v ct a re ! j^fla thte dElavt hold- 
wt\a guis a.ai st '< is or that ieastire of n tionai e ' s ol the State a-e.-wi-h rare eveptiens. t/e l-.-Hiheld- 
injury; implores I nd d no nces in alternate puer lit/: K* a of ,he StH ' e: tJl >' 1 «' °' re soluieiy iucn as th- ir 
makes au ! unmakes P; esi len-s; e act- and repeal- la • > ' tortun " °y ''berating their sla M eve;; wii.-out eon pen, 
w.th a petitionee .nd 1 cklessuess more ■ .f ay an- i sa lon - Thu-, if i ftffr* l>.'.0 acres of fajjfl Fa < 
ly inoignaf:on,than hep tiabl forbe raace of the No ith. ! u 18 w '" r,h - ,r, °- 11 ! sfl 1 I own 12 s'avos w«flh, 7.U- t), 



Yet no ri lief can * o he si k ug patient; tier hy o- j tl,e P'-opom n -b < ratio Itetw ten land ami -lates; 
condriac i! i lusions .:;e n dispel l..; she ili not see mJ5(1 rise lo t! e valuc <>*' t'-e het stat- s 4 4ft rt| whi« 1 it 
tha. slav ry, 110 h ng ut si i'vi ry, is tie cause < f her run. ! u<t ' in m V estvc becomes worth g the value of 

H r fields relap- it.to primtive steri it ; her r puia- j ?600(.) $9'\0C0. If it rKcs to j-er acre, toco 

tion wastes' av ay; manui' ctures recede from the infected [Wmes its presefli vat ir, a- I it'ccr 1 lei. eve it would 
b .rder; ;ra e langui-hes: deca enche upon h. r me - ' 0 - yea s after e.oa ■ ipat . n, h- lijan o-vning 

s a*. -j] °' ° arl ' e * s ol '^ a h'd'. n • w h $8 1 [)t»r acre,, v. onid bo 

i^cw thus as. 



gr'e accumulation';, of taste or util^t ;gua tf ncs 

into the sh .«• r d po t is oft e homestead; the hearth- 1 ™rj& '"dcr the free s'y'sY m, ' 14o,60i).' 
.-one is invaded by a more relei.tles intruder t an h Lsenjon is fully pr,ot< n t>\ fe s open t > at}; Kentucky 
officer of the la«; and th.- castl that may stand b. fo c ' w;,s re" 1 " V wealthy en igran':'s: Ohio hy laborers, 
the sword, fal's bv this slow, secret nd res stl'ess eue- 1 ;,ve t,,cIc .V j* «««* senior of Ohio by nearly one hail" 1 I' 



.•zen t ihe core; 'he existence of the' fatter. K ht'iic! v i- ftc lAiperior uf 
1 despair be. ins 0 ' 0'' '° in ?o 1 cl 1 ate, m n< raS* and timber, to s -y noth- 



ai.y; the blood of the body polite is . 
atr ph paralysr s all iis li bs; sulle 
display itself ii on the care-w rn face; f me ; ue \ 'ngof ihe e.o.ty olh: sur ace— nd yi t Ohio's faxes 
Heavens and the earth cr. al nd— eter al 1 ws < f h p- j t; »" 18« am on ed to '."2, .6 .4-2 1 »hilfi Keutiitk V. 
pines- and evist. c have deen trampled under toot; j tax ' s °"1- $-.54o,6 17 6(3. T- us no wing 'Ohio's sppe- 
*W JTfi wjUt »» '.a«ost pitiable infatuation, the South still I nor productive energy o: Kc t:itk-.. Ohio h i.; 
clings to Slavery. | elect ■ al vote to our 3. aud . u't-iriss us at about the 

T e compctit n of un qui ed service, sla e labor.; ame ratio'iii all th-ugs else. A coinpar son bl the ol I- 
dooms th labonag h.te a.illi us of lh st Slates to pov- j cr free an slave ta es will s ow a o <• thvorab n bah 
rty; povert. gives them oyer to ign r ace; and igno-j a (-e sheet to he f <•• labor stafes*: wh Is the slav o 
r nee a. id poverty are t .e fast ig roads t . crime • nd j st tesluve greatl h adv ht^ge jh cliuiaJWaiid soil, 
a..d suff rinj. Among 'he more I rtunaie roperty tp say LOtiiing of th^ vastly gniater stent VA v ijBe territory 



holders, religion m.d moralit\ are stag enng and dying. 
. le s, extr vaga >c- , mitbriftines>. and w.t t of ue - 

:y pr ipitaie -lave mlders into frequent and unhe 1 I 
nk ptcies, such as are unknown in fee States nd 

e l rd ed monarchies. h p r it of um-outrolled 
c rams d vit ates ou> te peraine t-, d d; t oys that 

venness ol temper and equapiniity of sou', wh.ch ar 
the sheet anchors of happtu --and safety in a woild t 
unattainable desire an. mex 1 r b e evil. Popul ion is 
spar- , and with ut n m iers there is .ei er co p itio. 
nor div -ion of lahor, ano of necessity, a mechanic 

rts la guish am .n us, Ag icu tu e dra .s along its 
sl">w li u^th, \v tii -loyeu y, lgno ant, r> c less la or. 
Science, literature, an ar are st a _efs ere; p ts, 



of t^e slav stati s. 

Massachusetts pr.'iluces more in cr s manufactures 
yearly, tha all the cotton in trie tJriion sells for! Let 
Louisville look o Cincin att., n d ask hers. If how rnauy 
millions of do'l .rs slavery cost her? A'! our towns 
dwindle, and ou farmers lbs In con'sequenee^ all H rne 
markets Every, farmer broiignt ou i>v he slave sys- 
tem, sends off on of the consumers of the manufactures 
f the towns; when t e c^usurm rsare»oi5e, thu mechan- 
ic musi go nisi..' A has . cquir d auoth -r 1000 tier s of 
1 nd, but B. h. s iion. to 0 o wit life ^5^6,000 paid 
for .t, and he -tate is that much ne poorer in the g- 
gr" ae. A has increased lis pp rent ue aus, but his 
mark' t has flow o Lnds . r v ried bv .se h ads than 



h.s. oria.is, artists, i.vchani»ts, th. iove/s o. th> ideal, I tno laud of iLvc-ry can bo:;»t. Beef from Pajetti 



» 




eegpg ', 1 — 

thss Soring iu tue city of New York >or $6 per hun- 
dred b>t he expanse of the ^erri ige was ^3 per httti- 
dred: 'hus f >r v.adof a me market, which an ot 
exist to a slave state, the eef raiser lo s - ••». hail of 
the >• rty proc^ds o' v his farm Slavery cost? every 
man i" th. comrnu uy about the su « unce — on- ball 
ar.d more o! the proceeds of his a 01, as h price of 
la ds has 8 (ready shown! 

P 1 • <a dirficultie- t eke around us; war, for thi' 
p, r .etna i of this ottist threaten us iti the ds ae e; 
nark clouds of b ood hed, .lissof on a d tte r in o 
er on the h r zo ;th g at u tic a! h art lies bli i -i g 
in the list. uud. r t e rel tle-sh .1 f the s ive pow 
veryqu.ck y o ^ee that the po t 
u ky as gone '.orever, ml s so 
>nd rev ves under the Free r 
truth, no c m icq i ter st w th the 
h, we b a. all the ey Is 
the su posed <• mpe - 
sating bean fi.s which slavdry c<>nf rs upon the cultiva 
orsof nee, sugir. *ud cotton. The South is begi - 
nmtttobe supplied w.th roduc fro 1 ., s ates .>ea < 
them in distance a d facil ties : o transport io the 
o rs, whilst he i alri a toe poor to ay fr m us: we 
• loo* for markets aim si • xcl .sivel Ciucin.i ti, an 
New York and New Orieans, ,>hich la is but riv «• t- 
!e.t to the other notions' Until Keutuc' i- prepared 
all 1< "gt s for !ave-y he is ow. rless; not r< • 



er! I- requires n 
ical power of Ke 
akes a n. w taek. 
system. Having 
e!a-eh ldi g p.di.y of th. Sou 
of th afianee, without any 



forever deluded by the silly cry of ''abolitionists;" is not 
this becoming contemptible? Can you not see that ma- 
ny base demagogues have be. -n crying wolf, whilst they 
were playing the iraitors to iheir party and the country 
forp rsonal . Ieeation? Is it not time lhatsome sense of 
returning justice should revive in your bosoms, and that 
you should cease to denounce- those who in defeat do 
not d spair of the Republic. 

Washington, Jetierson, and Madison, and the grV 
founders of the Republic are my standard bearers; Lib 
erty and Union is my motto .Never yet luis a Kentuc'k- 
ian deserted |his country's s'landard and fled the field. 
Shall J be the first to prove recreant to the sentiment 
v._hich should <-ver be uppermost in the bosoms of the 



He replied they were not. 

"Then why did you leave that State?" 

"Because," was bis answer, "Kentucky is a slave 
State. I was not able to ptiiv base . laves, nor should I 
have been willing to own them if 1 had been able; and 
for a free man to v crk among slaves necessarily degrades 
him, and I thought 1 would do better toremove to afjee 
State." 

This is nearly the gentleman's language. 
We asked if he had ever known any one else who had 
1 ft Kentucky for the same reason. 

"Yes many." 

'•And did you ever know a farmer, who designed to 
do his own work, move into Kentucky because it is a 

slave State?" 



gallant and the free, when danger, ho matter whether of 
the sword, 'or more damning despotism threatens hisna-i "Never." 

tive land. * •, "Having lived many years in Kentucky, you aro 

j doubtless able to judge, with considerable acuracy, what 



to gc 

srlavery ong tor he en va ry,' nor free en ugh <>r 
the free; between two sto iseheflo u es'oth ground 
dris i ns, moral sts, politicians, and «>< rel tet liv 
lahorers eel these biter nuth . Kentucky ever il 
unite h. rs If to -h> a av.- « ..ptre, bom f -on ei dis- 
union: the lether at onoe had o the 'an f r f <■ '.Horn 
Is t e cry ol liberty less o erfttl th c s v ry t m ve 
th. hearts I m< •? L't us then be ju< and fear not. 
Let us liberate .ur slaves, «d make trie d* instead of 
•enemies fin the e%i! day; -or alt. signs <>; the im 
proc tin that the elements ■ .ev u'ionaie among us; 
w(>en the crisis ft. mes, if we are ree, all wij be a t ; if 
not no man can se the end. Briti- • ernancip t on has 
g..ne before us, :>r..vi ig all things safe 1 h. puceof 
lauds in the c lonies is admitted on .11 hai <i.- to have 
risen in .value, in spite of a 1 th enemies of nee o : 
the-"? are n ete nal an I and.sp.i-abl- .roofs of suc- 
cess ul reform. T e dav you s ik off the bonds- 
slavery, texperi nee and statistics prove he piopljfcy of 
Th m s Jeff r-on, that t be rat o .1 the inc aae of the 
black upo ag'v n basis, diminishes, compared wi h 
the increase o slavery, whil- the influx f white emi- 
grati n swallow - up Hie gr atma-s «.f th African rare„ 
in the pro^re-s d civ Uzation of t e5inore enerjje c 
w i e. A..^»l am iti n of the two r es. so affectfcdl 
dreaded >y so ne ;;ro-slaver\ men, is fyr I ss iu the f . 
than in the si es ites; thi all ne kuo r m obser 
vati >n; whit a I ttle fl ct o i would h ve ah ' hem. 
a priori, to hav deie mined. Many of the on- fai h 
and adastrious siayes ay'-e em pi yed by t ell 
dum.taasters, WB e the idle and v.c ous u it s i r thi 
the c ns q -.once of the.r folly. St aling v '1 u t in- 
crease as some argu . bu be di ai 'is md, or vig lance 
will be m re active ad p i is ■ nt oore c.rt.iu and 
severe. Let candidates be started in all the counties iti 
favor of a'conventton, and ran a ja':n and again, I'll vic- 
tory shall perch on the standard of the free. Wh, th- 
emancioat on >e r mate or miaeliite regard uus b 
had to t ie rights ot ow . rs, the habi - f t ie id, a d 
the general good feeling of he people. T t se wh'> 
cry out forev r, " vh.it sh .11 b 1 n 1 vith the .'av. s : ' 
it will occur that upou ihis ph.:., no more will u left 
among us tl an we shall absolul ly ee 1 "or we have 
every r< a>on to su pose hat m m ofth ppn n s of 
the m'.ve nen is will lea\e us b f re its consu. nation 
taking their slaves > ith t :em; and he state ought not to, 
if sh • co dd, at once iep ieherseli of th- slave la .ore'rs 
n.-w here. 

Then let us have no regard to the clamors of the ul 
tras of the North or the South, move on unshaken in 
our purpose to the glorious end. Shall sensible men be 



— 'Think -hrough wfiom 
Thy life blood tracks its parent lake, 
And then strike home ! ; 

I have given my slaves freedom for the public good, 
is more needed ? — Tax me to the verge of sustenanc- 
and life, and make my country free ? I call upon an 
Kentucky o speak out upon this subject; let us hear 
others — hear all. TrusT not to those who in private 
whisper approval in your ear, but denounce the open 
advocates of the same admissions. I do not profess to 
be infallible, if 1 am wrong, show nee the right — no man 
will d-j more, suffer more for conciliation. I listen to 
advice. I implore counsel; but neither denunciation nor 
persecution shall silence me; and so far as the voice of 
OiK individual makes up the omnipotence of public will, 
I say Kentucky shall be free. Let no man be startled; 
a few years ago most men looked upon slavery as a mat- 
ter of rourse, a thing of necessity, which was trj live 
for centuries. Nov, few are so hardy a* to deny that 
some twenty or thirty years will witness its extinction. 

The tape is, to my judgment, yet nearer at hand. A 
space of three counties deep, lying on the Ohio^i'-cr, 
contains a decided majority of the people of the State, 
as well as the greater part of the soil. Hew long before 
slaves there will be, from obvious causes, entirely use- 
less? Soon, very soon will they find themselves bear- 
ing all the evils of slavery, without any, the least remu- 
neration. Does any man believe that they will tamely 
submit to this intolerable grievance? If slavery does 
no tumbledown of i.seif, they will vote it down, for 
the will have the power, tind it will be their interest to 
do so. The rich interior counties of the State have ihe 
least Heed of slave labor of any portion of the g : obe. 
Th<' mountains are ruined by the decreasing population 
of the owlands, and the inability to consume their pro- 
ducts where slaves abound. The Green River country 
should remi mber hat if Pandora's box was opened again 
upon mankind, ihat two greater curses and forerunners 
of poverty and ruin than slaves and tobacco could no; 
und! K< niuckians be w orthy of your past fame — 
heroes once more. God has not designed this most 
favored land to be occupied by an inferior race. Italian 
skies mantle over us, and more than Sicilian luxuriance 
is spread b'-nealh our feet. Give us free labor, and we 
shall indeed become "the gat den of the vorld." But 
whai if not? Man was not created for the eating of In 
uian meal, the mind, the soul must be fed as well as the 
body. The sam - spirit that led us to the battle field, 
gloriously to illustrate the national name, yet lives in 
the hearts of our people: they feel their false position, 
their impotence of fu ure accomplishment. This weight 
must be removed. Kentucky must ttefree. 

CASSIUS M. CLAY. 
Lexington. Kentucky, Jan. 1845. 



proportion of the slaves have u Anglo-Saxon" blood in 
heir veins." 

•Yes, I think more than half of them are partially 

white 1 ." 

"Wfdl, did you eA'er knew of a cose of amalgamation 
if the North?" 

"I heard of one in Indianapolis, several years ago." 

' And it probably made a very great excitement?" 

Yes, very great, and I believe the Legislature acted 
upon the subject." 

And, in Kentucky , probabl- , no one expresses any 
surprise to see a colored slave have a child half white." 

"Why, sir, the occurrence is so common that it at 
tracts no attention, it is looked upon quite as a matter 
of course:" 

Here is the testimony of one who said he was no aho- 
.itionist. Southern men, if they w ould examine the 
subject, would find important truth in it. They would 
b arn the grand secret of the prosperity of the North. 
Th. ave s stem at the South makes southern people 
look upon labor as degrading; consequently none wo 
w ho can help it. and those who do labor are despised. 
The slave's themselves w ill not do near as much work 
as if they w ere receiving pay in proportion to the amo- 
unt of labor they do. Instead of having any inducement 
to work, they feel interested in doing as little as they 
can, adS escape the Irish. 

The first objection to the abolitionists is that they are 
amahjamationista. This objection has been refuted 
thousand times and yet it is still u- d against us. T 1 e 
first instance of an abolitionist practically adopting amal 
Kamation principles is yet to be witnessed, while amal 
gamajjon is a common ocfi njrence m slave Spates. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It shouh 
he read by every body. A few copies for sale at th< 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office < 
lie Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



From ihe Indiana Freeman. 

A CONVERSATION. 

In conversation with an intelligent gentleman from 
Kentucky, a few days since, we asked him if the soil in 
Indiana was more ferule, or the climate more agreeabl 
than in Kctnucky. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

\ le cpies rif Clark's Liberty M u6lr I a'< foi 
sa e at hi offir-e. 

T is is sup iior t.> any thing • f the lurid we h.ivf 
s. en and should be in t e possession of every one hal 
l .ves oid us'i ••, • nd 'oves t. make a good use of it. 
P. ice, 44 cents. 



ti a >ii ion Waaldftgton Temperance B ncv 
fdc.it Society, — meets every Monday eve 
niriijf in the Free Church, iqhrn .ttxlutd 
Pi cedent, Fredrick Stone, &ccn/ary. 

Boon/ on Liberty Association.— nieeit, th 
first Friday evening efevery mom 
M. Evarls, President, (J. B. Aon'is, Sec. 



I 



THE NE 





VOL. I. 



BOONTOJV, APRIL 



1845. 



ISO. 12 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

T E R M S. 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 
10 copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford 
topay postage. i 



FATHER TAYLOR 



but the easy smile that played about* his mouth, and 
the heart cheerfulness that gleamed in his hazel eyes 
:lirew over his whole countenance a halo of intellectu- 

sunshine. 

As he walked up the aisle, the fond mother looked 
arouned with an air of admiration as much as to say 
"see you not my noble boy ? why do you not rejoice 
with me ?" But there was no occasion for it, if such 
were her thoughts, for u hereever he • came, in view, he 
• as the observed of observers. Nor was his exterior 
■> t better pari of him: hisbeaii was nobler and his soul 
- as large enough to take in all mankind- I had fre- 
,y . , quest oportimities of seeing him during the week and 
jstiii he seemed unchanged. 

But my heart bleeds while I tell hy-in the early part 
of the second week he was seen standing at the corners 
of the streets, smoking and talking with some of his ship 
mates. The day oivwhich they received their wages 
s ailor like, they all assembled in a rumshop to take a 
parting glass. That glass was fatal t.o William. 

Each treated in his turn, and ere they separated, 
'icy were nearly. all intoxicated William was one of 



Several years since, a large Temperance meeting was 

convened in the Bethel Church., North Square, at which 

many seamen related their experience in run drinking. 

Mr Taylor's voice, of course, whenever the bashful- 

ness of the seamen prevented them from taking part in 

the meeting, was raised to encourage them; and so easy 

and familiar was his tone on such occasions, that even 

the most diffident of the company soon found themselves I t j r 

... _ 1 J ,te.os'> proud spirits who at times are possessed of con- 

cntirely at home. Bv way of parenthesis, we mavi.-i, ,.„i,i„ (• i u r : ,i . . • 

J , „ r m , . smeiajye firmness, and believe that they can abstain 

here remark, that one of the causes of Mr Taylor'ssuc- j r ,, jm lh , ust , oflif)U()r by )h( . , R , r ^ of ^ ^ 

cess in the faculty which he possesses ofrendermg those ^ ^ ^ be ^ ^ to a . pledge . 

The , first debauch had diseased his appetite, his self 



around him as much at home as himself. On the pres- 
ent occasion the meeting was quite interesting, and a 
large number of seamen signed the pledge. Among sev- 
eral incidents he related the following, which we noted 
at the time, was peculiary affecting. 

"Brethren," Said Mr Taylor, "about three years since , 
I called to see a widow, one of our sisters, who had long 
been < xpecting her son, a noble young sailor from sea. 
The ship in which he had sailed had been due over three 
monthsf, end the poor widow began to think thather dar- 
ing boy, her only support, had found a watery grave. 

Weii, I talked the matter over with te^ptoT^^'^^^^^^ And 
to cheer her with the hope of seeing hunt soon- (you lhere ^ by hjs gat y 

know, gentlemen my motto is, never say die)-and while bathing his fevcred tempk> w!ih vilu , 
I was yet speaking she seized me by the arm, and ex- a sif her heart would break. 
ck,med,.hush! hush! hush! that's my William's voice- , 01H , eavor(?d toIsooth ^ bnt she , vas like Raohol? 
I kftowft is-h.s step, too on the sta.rs-he comes ! my ; v , cepin? f or her children, yefusin^to be cemfor, d. Wr e. 

' ' °P pnflcw the door ' aml thfire he heard my voice, he raised his head, and in a rough 

demanded of his mother, more rum. 



posession had left him, and more rum was required to 
quench his burning (hirst. 

Need I tell you that before Saturday he was a con- 
firmed drunkard reeling about the streets, and wallowing 
in the Gutter. At iast nature give way, and he was 
carried to his mother's dwelling, drunk and insensible— 
that^dwelling which but a fortnight before his presence 
had rendered the scene of so much happiness. 

I called to see him, and there he lay, extended on a 
matrass, his once glossy locks clotted with mud, and 

he i 

disconsolate mother, 
lr, and weeping 



• had SO Electors, and gave 447,C f >: v A > 
1 Elector 10 5,530 voters 



stood the noble youth, with arms extended, and for a 
spring. He gazed for an instant, his eye caught his 



savage voice, 

"Rum!" he exclamed, "rum 1 want- 



-Ci rse i;oi 



mother's, and they where locked in each other's embrace.. giye mp sorm , m . . m] ^ your foolish prating." Here 

The^ kissed and wept, and kissed again, and I wep j ^. Taylor threw his arms"; .upwards' and gazing in th 
too, and there all three stood weeping w ith joy 



O 



I sami 



;vum, brother* 
■ features!" 

Here Mr. T. pausi 



nan did this for the noblest of God's 



.but'sueh was the in teres! w hich 



Styior rnrew nis armsjiipwards' and ga: 
direction, as if his whole soul was w as in eyes 
was a glorious sight lit was truly a happy return! Web j his voice and contiriued-'vw™ his mother!- 

Brethren, when we had recovered breath, the old la, . - lo , y God , ^ <i>nvn /h(> wim i <r , vs 0 f Heaven "down, 
yet s.mpenng inquired what had detained her William j und Iot Qdt ihi , S(j , im , ^ fi^fe cursns his mother! 
60 long. 

"Why rnother, i'you see we lost our mast in a gale i 
off the cape, and. have been hobbling along ever sine; 
under jury masts ; nobody got hurt, ship's a line boat. ] 
captain a noble fellow;but — what, is this Father Taylor ' 
(turning to me) — God bless you. 1 am glad to see you 
how are all your fo'ks? and he graspi d me in both hand 
and shook me as if 1 had been laboring under a Florida 

ague. But come, continued he, my trap (chest and, 

° .. ., , T , ! mother is suil witn us singing glory to God." 

pack) are below, and 1 must get them up, so vou mu.-: i TT , , , , ,, ■ ., , 

r ' „ „ ,. . ° . i fie sat dow n and w hen all i as quiet a gentle manly 

excuse me. ' A tew minutes alter we separated. r , • - ...... 

, r. i t ,i t i .i i man rose up, and after surveying the audience a mo- 

I he next Sunday, 1 stood where 1 now stand; the! , • j _ A - r . l-_ i. 

greater part of the seats were nearly full, and brother 



nquired. 



he narrative excited, that several voices 
'what became of him? what did he do ?" 

" he did," resumed Mr. T., "what I want you ah 
'.o do to night — when he recovered he signed the pledg. 
jand now commands a vessel *ut of this port, and his 



Foster was getting some settees ready, when my at- 
tention arrested by the young sailor^with his fond mother 
on his arm. O ! he was a noble young fellow! straight 
as an ash, firm as a pillar, yet when he walked, seemed 
pliant as a willow.. Shall I forget him? No never 
That day, it w as summer at the time, he wore a blue 
jacket, white browsers, and on the down collar of his 
eno'wy shift, dangled the glossy locks of raven hair. 
His face and neck where deeply bronzed by the bud, 



ment and wiping the perspiration from his forehead, 
said, " I am the man ! " and resumed his seat — JST. 
E. Wash.. 



ON A DANDY 



A dandy is a chap hat would 
Be a young lady if he co Id; 
Bui as he can't does all lie can 
To show the world he's not a man. 

of L berty 



POLITICAL BURDEN OK SLAVERY. 

The following facts, not generally k no- 
show the great injustice which the systei 
of slavery, as authorized by the constitution 
imposes on the free States, in the matter i 
political influence and pnwer. In the pre 
sent ratio of representation, it will be r'e- 
nembercd that five slaves are counted 
three freeman. 

In the Presidential election in 1840, 

13 free States had lf!S Electors and gave 1 ,7 1 f..T0?vctcs- 
I Elector to 10,1-ls. Votes; 

ISslave States had 115 Electors, and gave 693,00d > . • . 

1 Elector to 6,025 votes. 

New York had 42 Electors, and gave 441,139 vctei;— 
1 Elector to 10,503, VQtos. 

Virginia 
Tennessee 
Kenmcky 
N. Carolina 
Louisiana 
Arkansas 
Missouri 

Ohio had 21 Electors, and gave 07.%R<10 votes — 

1 Elector to 13,010, viffes 
Virginia had 23 Electors, and gave 86.394 vote — 

1 Elector to 3,75b, v. . 
Michigan had 3 Electors, and gave 44,299 votes-- 

1 Elector to M,7<"C votes 
Louisiana had 5 Electors, and gave 18,912 votes — 

1 Elector to 3,782 vo' . 

In the presidential election in 184-1 — 

13free States had 161 Electors, and gave l,8i • : 14 
votes — 1 Elector to 1 1 ,73; ' vol i. 

12 slave States* had 105 Electors, and gave 7:;K; •. 

votes — 1 Elector to 6,608 vou . 

Michigan had 5 Electors, and gave 56,222 votes— 

1 Elector to 11,244 votes. 
Louisiana had 6 Electors, and gave 26,865 votes — 

i Elector to 4,477 votes. 

In 1822, Mr. Upshur, Secretary of the Navy, being 
called on by the Senate to state the rule adopted by 1 
in apointments in the navy, reported (10th May; : 
"The rule followed by myself, and which is iinae'rs(c . j 
to be the rule of the office, distributes of the appoint 
ments ampag the several States according to their rt 
presentation in Congress. 

I soon dissovered that that the rule could rot he a] 
plied. From Rhode Island there was no applcfetiout 
and from several of the new states, the appficatTO! 
in many instances were unsupported by proper :< ; 
ials, so that the due proportion of those Slates cor. 
not properly be appointed. This rendered ner.easa.1 • 
many appointments at large, as it is called." Tl 
Secretary appends to his report n list of 191 appoiL' 
ments madeby him up to the date of the report; fogetht . 
with the States from which they were taken. II a 

pears tliat the application of the rule gave to the I 
States, - C9 offict rs, 

To the slave States - 90 " 

This left 32 to be appointed " at large." 
Now mark Mr. Upshur's selections : 

He took from the free States 4 " 
From the slave States 27 M 

Residence unknown 1 " 

l"hus, of 190 naval officers appointed by the Secre'r • . 
he took from the free States 73 
From the slave States 117 !! ' 

But it was possible that hereafter a nOrtheren S 
tary might apportion apointments according .to the I 
population of the States. To guard against such an . 
the Senate the the same session added a clause to 
Navy Approbation bill, requiring appointments of I 
shipmen to be made according to "federal numb 
thus giving {he slaveholders a representatain fi 
slaves in the navy, as well as in Congress. This . 
passed without a division. 

It was resisted in the House. The Senate, how 
insisted on the clause and a Committee of Confer 
w as appointed, which resulted in the abenddnmeii 
the clause. 



«t* 



The proceeds of the rale of public lands were dis- 
•:ibuted in compliance with the act of 1841 according 
■•i "federal numbers." The following are some of the 

; strajoraiuary results : 

Free population. 
284,573 received $ 9.055 
'.'07,300 
.'.12,207 
1 S3, 050 

23,7(10 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

COO XT' » V APRIL 30, 1 R45 - . 



S^eW^Iiampstrir 
ioutli Carolina, 
". lichigui:, 
iouisjani, 
"'crmonfe 
Mississippi, 
I-jwa, 
1 IoriSs, 



10,218 
7,420 
0,971 
10,213 
10,410 
1,598 
1,545 



On eiatoinaiifm' it will be found that judicial and : more comelv thai* LIBERTY 

ijiplopaauc appointments tire all made according to "fod- 
■ ra! numbers, 1 ' with a huge number "at large, " ac- 
• 'trding to IVIr.UpslfUJc'splan. 

Thus, of the nine Judges of the Supreme Court, five 
jfe shlve holders, and of five members of Mr. Tyler's 
fist Cabinet, only one was from a free State. 

Aup ROW let us inquire, what is the comparative pop-, 
.'ilatiotr.of Um tree; »:.-;! slave regions, including- both 
.•;ta*c? and Territories ?' •' 

The last census gives us 8,727,S28 free inhabitants in 
fte fisfce States and Territories, and 4,843,405 free in- 
habitants hi tfW slave States and Territories. 

Th'es we And 'that the slave rigon has not quite one- 
tfiirdofthe Union. Is it then in consequence of in- 
tellectual .superiority and literary ;ittainmets that our 
Southern brethren have required such a predominating; 



jries were all true, that Birney was a "traitor,"^" Lc- 
' co Foco in disguise," and' that the Liberty party was 
going for Polk, &c. &c. We believe the great mass 
of the constant readers of whig newspapers still befleve 
the wicked allegations made by whig editors' against 
Birney and the Liberty party in reference to this Sagin- 
aw affair, and think it & still important for Liberty men 
everywhere to expose it,4nd keep on exposing until 
the public mind is right or. that point. It is lrue that a 
I full and faithful exposition of this has been giVefij hut 
:the exposition has been read by few excep! anti slavery 

In all things that have beauty, there is nothing to man ; mcn ' and much remains to b * done F 1 ? fn «*r to set 

Wilton public mmd right on this subject. 

I This exposition has only been made in anti slavery- 
newspapers, the great mass of readers do not file their 
I papers, and are now unable to refer to the documents it; 



I Let us throw off the mask — 'tis a cobweb on.- at best, 
i and the world will ape. through it. It will not do thus to 
' talk like philosophers, and net like unrelenting tyrants; 
j to be perpetually sermonizing, with liberty for our text 
| and actual oppression for our commentary. 

Wm. P'mckney, of Maryland. 



THE STATE MEETING. 
We trust the friends of Liberty throughout the State ! ordc ' r to meet the objections of cavillers. We still be- 
will remember the jjneoting in Nov ark, on the 13th of^' evo ^ a faithful exposition of this whole affair should 
May, according to a notice in another column, and as I b " S !vcn t0 mo public in pamphlet, in as small n c ompass 
the notice in the Freeman will not reach everybody in as . P ossib!e > and do hill justice to thesubject,.that every 
the State, let every friend take measures to give it as Libqrty man in the land should have one ready to re- 

' ter to on any occasion, and some to distribute amowr 
the , people. 

As we have never given the following testimony of a 
cost much. Why cannot we have a meeting that will | KVntuekian, and a political oppohArt of Mr. Firney in 
make the people believe we mean to do something? Ow$ reference to his purity of character, we give it now, and 

< - 1 i n V\ mnntlUT^ in + \i <-s Olntr. -.-'.11 ... _• - ._ - 



extensive a circulation as possible. Let it be a greal 
meeting. Our friends hi Newark will entertain those 
from a distance free from cost, and travelling does no* 



such meeting" in the State will give our cause an im 
pulse that will be felt by all parties, one that will Drove 



irresistable. Remember the 13th of May ! ! ! 

The legal existence of slavery under the new consti- 



.jct answers this question. 

Wc learn from, the census, -that there a 
United States 549,691 white persons ov 



influence ife-the government pfirttbe nation ? A single 1 tution in this state is to be argued before the Supreme 

Court in May, and some funds are wanted to carry 
re in the this through. This wlli be a great anti-slavery meeting 
over twenty I of itself in the light place, and able men are already cn- 
ars of vge who cannot read and write. in proper- goged to argue the cause for liberty. 

Fund's are also needed to pay a small debt the So- 
ciety owes, a small trifle from each one of the friends of 



'ion to their free poHulation as we have seen, the slave 
States and Territories ought not to embrace more than 



.•ue-thirdofthisnumb-r, vk: 183,231. But the ccd.sus | libert y wiU : enable us to sunnoant all the obstacles 
-.lis us that "they have 34.\SR7 white over twenty j :n th ? of ol!r present onward progress. Work 



Years of arte who cfafinot read or write, that is, very 

yearly thn*e-ftfths of the igronunceof the nation, with 

July ^r:i-fhird of its free population. 

Another very roratirkacile fact is the small number 
■ • f slaveholders jn the United States, Human flesh, 

like L::d in England, is monopolized at the South j tho s i a ve, IT is' AN IMPORTANT°TIME FOR 



should be done now, it is perfect folly to wait until the 
approach of elect ion, when all is strife, and reason is de- 
throned. Let us be up and doing, and do it NOW! 
LitSlfT J, L'-t the people have LIGHT. The pros- 
pects of r. weekly paper are quite encouraging, let not 



commend it to the consideration of all honest men. 

Rosedale, September 1st, 1842. 
Mr James Longhead — Sir: Your letter of. the 10th 
of August, reached me a few days since, and my apolo- 
gy for not havin? answered it sooner, is absence, and 
sickness in my family. No man differs from Mr.- Bir- 
ne\- in relation to his abolition views more widely and- 
absolutely than I, yet I am convinced of his entire sin- 
cerity, and perfect puritv He has made greater private 
sacrafices for his opinion, than would be required by 
the most tvrannical bigot Mr. Birney has not only 
abandoned his patrimony, but he has deserted his native 
state, and a wide circle of fond friends and relations in 
pursuit of the phantom of opinion. In Alabama where 
he resided, before he returned to Kentucky, where he 
Was born, he liberated al/ his slaves, and made it op- 
tional with them to remain or come with him. He paid 



.Jn some ta*ts qf the slave Stales whites r.re to the 
'.vick: ; .:i WO to 1, and in one county in Arkansas as 
(1 to 1. In other parts the slaves ore' exceedingly nu- 
•„;..rous, and far outnumber the whites. 0 

It i.i reduced nearly to douaonstratrien that thrs slave- 
hy}'£$w cannot, an average, ^bssewi less than tea slaves, 
"ttftisdinjj woni'jii ana children and probably thiey pos - 
. ■■•»}. many isorc. 

J?ow the Oriole nunvtier of slaves is 2,487, IL^whicl 



OUR CAUSE. A little slothfulness now may be fatni;a 
little self sacrificing; zeal now will give our cause per- 
manency, respectability, and a rapidly onward progress. 
The people of New Jersey were never more disposed 
to receive anti slavery truth than, now. Shall the op. 
portUBtty pass unimproved? What nnti slavery man 
will make himself answerable for such nedect? We 



this fall through'by a lack of zeal among the friends of tho f 1 bire - He hved on a farm, in a slave state, were 

white laborers Avere not readily to be had. He purcha- 
sed a negro man at an executor's sale on credit; before 
the time of payment arriv d, he found it inconvenient 
to keep him,, and having offered him the opportunity of 
purchasing his freedom, which uas not done, he restor- 
ed him to the family out of which he had been bought, 
and cancelled his note. This is my understanding of 
this case. 

After the death of Jawes G. Birney '> father, fray fn- 



trust every man will be at his post, ready to do battle for i 

K berty — while the eneniic's ranks are brenkino;, and dis- i tbor ,n low,) J. G. Birney came to my house. I was 
imdecl bv ten, gSves 2 18,71 1 as the •kale liuliiber 6f \ ?0rd reigtis ever the pro slavery camp, let us, be up and ; not home. On my return, I found he had been urging 
hfchoidOis h tkctfatlmt. Yet this handful «)f men dbing. mi his sister that the assignment of the negroes, (twenty 

, :i: ;'..:.:: -*' 1 ; e u,!> ■:. .'> ffth thi ■ ; three in number,) which had descended to us jointly, 

■dtyyf ' ' - 

t n'.: 



THE GARLAND FORGERIES should be entirely made out to him, in order to enable 

■>ih th<; N'o; :h In iS; ■ Lie A Congress, 6 more 'SonsUc;> i Not one in one hundred of the whig editors have had ' ,m lo cmanc,pate tbem - 
take tlteir i e its— 2 from Iowa, 2 from T«:xas, and he maniiness to come out and acknowledge that they 



ajJUt i«..s nq>v an p^ual number <;f Senator: 



.jV^m' i'lorid-i , giviivj; the slaveholders a major' ty in on 



After much discussion, this erranc;ement was finally 



.»r&n«l 



the 



etional Le'/islaiure. 

wiil bet 

lf&. many new sla ,r c States 



slaving, the majority, they wiil become absolute, a:; 
. v.«i»l, frorriifi'me Co time, nrake :.' 



Inev see at. 



v.LF Of ah ASIAN BEINGS FOR THE BENE- 
FIT OF /HEOLOGICAL EDUCATION. 
-The. foli6'.ving notice t>f a •puhfie sale is taken from 
«• Savaru&ij Republican of March 3rd, 1845. Aftei 

•i.-scribin:; tlv ..v'autaliju that was to be. sold, the notice 



a.!m 



the ssfflne time 



«, the following uegii 
Atitonctt, Davy 6*j 



jjiavej, to xtx/fr": Charles, Peggy 
'♦■■r.iber, Mi f 'ria, Jewhey, and Isaac — levied on a«j tH 
.V"op?rty cf Ucpvy I). Hall, to satisfy a mortgage fi la 
. ; ;;;;d oat of Meltitosh iSup'rior Court, in' favor of U 
L,. r.: !i of Dire: tors of thv; Theological Seminary of 
L'riMtii of S&tth Cij:\>li:it:- and dfiorjtU, vs. sa»J Hem- 
f.iliil. C«r.l(|ifJO;:3 Cadh. ' C. O'NEAL, 

WpVy Sherifi, M. C. ,. 



e deceived, in the representations which they gav | made. Mr. Birney took the slaves and did /iberatc 
.,f the dbomiftable falsehoods and forgeries by which j them,' and they are now free, and most of them in Lou- 
Mr. Birney' and the cause of liberty were exceedingly ! isville. 1 shou/d not have agreed to ibis settlement, had 
injured. Wc never did expect those editors, who i it not been for my invo/ved situation, and I apprehended 
by simultaneous concert of action, published these lies,! the shves would be sold if I took any of them. 
kndivina them to be such, to mftkc any amends; we looi : Any doubts as to Mr. Birney's devotion and siBCeriiy 
for no ^ood to come from men who cah descend, tot to the cause he has espoused is.. folly — is preposterous 
■uch wilful baseness: but wc Have expected, that men He will have been unfortunate, indeed, to have refused 



who put forth the claims of respectability, and who 
t.ave, in the heat of great political excitement, publish- 
ed these documents believing them to bs true, would 
■-. hen they discovered the imposition, have the manli 
eess to retract. But such has not been the case. 
We have heard but three or four whig editors in I 

hole nation who have exhibited any part of such ma i. 

iess. 

They first made the great mass of their readers 1 
••• their diabolical lies, and led them to act in acco^ 
■ with such belief. And the course they have puvi 
-le d since, has evidently been designed to fasten up' . 
.. • minds of their readers the conviction that these t>uj 



home, friends, relations, and fortune, for an opinion, and 
only to have achieved a doubtful recognition from the 
advocates of that opinion. Mr. Birney is well known to 
me. A man of more pure mora/ity, more honest prin- 
■ iples, and a warmer heart does not exist . My wife is his 
■mly sister, he has no brother. His abolition doctrine* 
avfe severed us. I have not seen nor had a letter from 
Vim for more han three years; yet there is ih my bosom 
■warmestand kindest personal friendship and regard 
ior him. Had it not been for his notions upon abolition, 
- should now and ever have breathed he same atmos- 
ire. I have iold you all I know. 

Yours, JOHN J. MARSHALL 



#5*G00D. We understand a resolution wasado;- 
at the Town Meeting in Hanover in this County, 
structing the Assessors to tax Distileries to the extei 
of the law. 

If we efcmot kill the tyrant Alcohol an once by is 
single blow, k?t us mutilate him in every possible ma - 
ner, cut a branch here, and a root there and kepn on 
doing so until there is nothing loft of him ; he has Id: 
enough trilled with the peace and happines'bf men. 

The following is Sec II. Chap 1 ofK< e 
Congregationalism and Church action 
worli that should be read in ever * family 



THE . FREEMAN'. 
This makes, the last number of the first volume of 
Freeman^ and we have already published 'hat we 
s! ovad continue it once a month at. ! -ast, and have re 
rived some new subscription;-;. We trust New Jersey 
■ i}l soon have a paper thai, can be published by some 
i" \\ ho wilt not have to do .all th e labor in odd mo- 
rn e*.;, he can catch while in the discharge pf other du- 
ties, enough for any one man; but tjie Fre .man shall 
id. stop till the slave can be heatd in x ew Jersey by 
md oilier chahnely and probably not then. We shal 
gratified to receive additions to our subscription list, 
ad the renewal of our last years subsbriptions. 



DIED. 

On the 16th of October, Adeline Amelia, aged 5 
months and one day, and on the 18th March. HELEN 
J A.NE, aged two years, two months, and 7 dsye^dajigli' 
ters of Henry and Jane Eliza Tuttle. 

On the 1st January /ast, JOHN TUTTLE, of a liiig. 
ering illness, aged 69 years. 

On the 19th ins* ELIZABETH, daughter of James 
and Catherine Crane, aged I year, 7 months, and 10. 
days. 



25. He that would work for ma' , must also work f • 
God, in his strength, and in use of the means he has ap- 
pointed. 

26. The invasion of human rights is en assault uf.o., 
human salvation. The oppressor is a destroyer : aiij 
a conversion which leaves men at varience with th 



Tl 



c present coloquies of the- leading wJiVs i.in c.'» 



iter' i is sort, as we opine: 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. At the Election in I Judge .4.— This is too had, we have borne *9tk fort* 
i Vfarch the Liberty vote was ahead of the Whigs in 42 < bo ne. but the South is insatiable. We must have u. 
I Towns, ahead of the Democrats in 8 Towns, and in § | p:!r t- to rescue the Government from the grasp of tho 
j "owns, ahead, of both Whigs and Democrats: S members I slaveholders. 

i w " re elected, fii Canaan, where a few years ago, ao \ Hon. Mr. j?.—Tlvt is verv.tn". We b'un 'eted 

fundamental principles of a sound morality, leaves then | tcadamy was drugged into a sw«tmp by a mob of respec j nomi-'attujr Clav- Mr. Webster" w;-s ri-vht. iWUJ) 
unsaved. j -yble men, and left thercybecause- colored children were | we -ad nominated him and stood i*-v him. * , 

27. To divorce the positive from the moral in religio- | iught in it,-- -the vote was Dem. 99, Whig- 94, Liberty j Col. C. — That can,'! be helped u ---v. .\:sd we felon, 
is to destroy both. . i 106. The vote in the State last N ovember was 4161, in | *j' r< ^ . :, ? ain . ir ! . Parting this Nat iv jam. It is plavioj 

28. Hearts dead to the claims ofmafc, eannotbe aliv ! ^.farch abo.ut GOOO-^gain about 45 per cent in fou 

Dying away is it? 



to the commands of God: and religon cannot flourish <» ,j . 



A WSib; liiJci'iiss'etriiioss. 



the ground where humanity withers;. 
■ 29. What God determines to accomplish, He will see j 
that in some form, andat some time, and by somebody i 

it shall be done — all reformations from evil are of bis i Jl _ , . . 

instisnation and those who engage in them are on .the ! 1 he 1 °™ Courier & Enquirer whicH gav* the 

Lord's side. ' < present Whig party its name and is one of the leading 

30. The religion of Christ assumes as an essentia! papers of the party, thuscxplains the defeat of the Whigs 



clement the doctrine of individual responsibility, and 
inalienable rights, upon which the whole framework of 
moral law and human accountability is erected. 



in the recent PreBiaehtiaZ contest: 

."Mr. Clay, as the whole country well knows, lost the 
State of N. York in November /ast, and consequently, 



31. Really to admit the claims of religon anywhere, ; s Jl0i now the President of the UmM States, becaus 



is to admit them everywhere. 

32. The practical Christianity of Christendom is most 
deplorably below the Bible standard, inasmush os^jtho 
burr <nt religion even of the ptotestantand dissenting sects 
is, to a great extent, a religion of outward observan- 
ces, of constitutional arrangements — of idolized rituals. 

33. The commands of God to his people cover the 
whole ground of their civil and political duties, and clear- 
ly teach, that to set up the workers of iniquity and el- 
evate oppressors to places of power, is the climax of a- 
postacy and rebellion. 

34. Religon and morality inseparable, and the attempt 
to dissever them, in any reformatory movements, is to 
err fatally in the start, and to ensure defeat in the re- 
sult. 



J 

he placed on record his dcUben-ie ofinion that the Ancx- 
afion of Texas cm , Id in no manner affect the question of 
Slatcrg; arid avowed himself is: favor of annexa- 
tion, ichencver the assent 6/ Mexico end'ofour even peo 
pie could be obtavrjcd." 

For thus daring to be honest, and for honestly be- 
/ieving that the annexation of Texas hi a constitutional 
manner would be a pub/ic blessing — which opinion we 
hues advocated jbr eijht years — Mr. Clay was deprived 
of the Presidenc y." 

The above extract from the Courier and Enquirer, 
shows that the editor of that paper regarded Mr. Clay 
as favorable to annexation, and that because of this he 
lost his e/ection. It is wort' >y of note, too, that the fead- 



the mischief with u<. Ail this pfi-ves'to my inind thgt 
we want % grea' priiuipl- to rally on ■ . ' 

Judqe A. — Just so. We must have a party opposed 
tn t e slave power. That its, a'tor all, the gre.-.t ques- 
tion; of this republic. I have made up m. mr.ri iVIy to 
su< h a pa ty. 

Tlon. Mr. B. — B"t what shall we do w th the fciber. 
ty p rty? I would take that ground if it h.d not «»on 
spoiled. 

Col. C. Yes. Judge, the Libert^ men are ri^-ht. buj 
they are *n ini<.rac-icabl.e set. To join them won! ) \ • 
letting our elves down. And to -top short of then p?» 
smon would be ridfcul -ug. There is not to»vH eh •• 
Nvbere to form a party. — Host Chrcr- 



(<@> A mass Liberty Convention for the State of a .!:- 
ana, is to be held at Indianapolis on the 22d '"laV, 19 
last three daj-s. 



ing whig papev in New York, edited bv the godfather 
3-x A revival cf religion is no father genuine than it [ of the - w hijj piivty , has advoeated the annexation of Yex- 
cxtends its influence to overcome thesin.s of the cdm-j M f or 8 years— yet when, before the e/evatioD, we de- 
munl, y- j e/ared that the whig pattv were, divided upon the ques- 

36: Christianity requires mankind to unite in one 1 tion, we were, accused "of misrepresentation. Whai 
common brotherhood, under one common Lord; impres- j v , i// 0 ur accusers now sav to "this frank avowa/ of Col. 
ses the comprehensive fact of mans's equality with man, j Webb? During the rfignt years that he has advocated 
and teaches him his own equality with his own mother's | annexation, has he boon considered any the /ess a whig 
children. j f or sue h ar l ; 0 cacv? Not. at all. We commend these 

37. The religion we propogatc abroad cannot be ex 1 facts to the attention of the thoughtful. — C'hr. Freeman. 
pected to be more pure than that which is maintained a I 

home - 1 GREAT ANT I SLAVERY CONVENTION AT 

38. Betterthata corrupt Christianity were buried outj. CINCINNATTI 

of sight, than that it should continue to stalk abroad, an.: , E h ■ ^ * ^ rendc . r it certa ,- n that th 

utter meaningless incantations and idle bravadoes, a» .„ ? , ,„ , ,. , 

*. 1 , 0 r . .1 i • • . • .. . ' . i-.roposed southern ana Western anti slavery conven- 
it always aoes, after the vrtat principle is extinct ; an. J ^ u -' vt " 

when, in the midst of its vain formalities, it confess :.^n wdl by held m Cincmnatti mthe early part of June. 1 iTHFR riTivr 

its own want of courage, to look gigantic crimes in th T««call rwill be issued this month, signed by several | ^ , 

face. ' .' hundred p •.•sons from five or sjx states, and letters from , 1 he * r ^ nch ° mcer gave the foilowing toast Ma 

39. The religion of no' people can rise higher'than tl • , very dhi-trtion assure us that the peopfe receive the centlyat Washington, waw quite savage upon "de grand 



T!ic Executive Committee of the Morris County 
W. T. B. Society, have engaged the services, of Mr 
J. M. Brown, the Temperance Singer an-.: LecjtiWibr 
a season. He will lecture as follows: On HfoRday, 
May 12th, at Boonton; Tuesday, 13th at Beavertov.i.; 
Wednesday, 14th, at Montv'ille; Thursday 15th. at 
Rockaway Valley; Friday, 16th at Denviilc; Satordsv, 
17th, at Paitippa.nj r . r 



"No man with a soul so large as a flea's gizzavC, 
could possibly be so mean, so cruel, so covvard.v, ta 
go round, pop, popping at little birds in the briars ai:J 
bushes, wing breaking sparrows, and maiming chicka- 
dees-- and yet there are things inhuman shape juii'caso 
enough to do it. These, where they bury their d.'rn, 
vity in some dark den cr %-aat wilderness, may esc^pa 
human observation; but in the vicinity of cities, tlrcy 
subject themselves to the disgust and loathing cf eveiry 
one in whom the image of God is not defaced and obi;'.- 
■rated."-—",". Y. Tribune. 



theology upon which it is founded. A false philosophy proposition with an enthusiasm that wi/1 secure the 

|wmot fail to produce a false theology. A dead-letter greatest Gi nvention of the kind eVer held in the West. 

Ijeology always involves a low standard of ethics, an- Let a u v^ho believe that the Genera/ Government 

Bhe corruption of the p-iblic morals is a matter 0! . t . <utA-i* »„ 1, . .• lL , 

f. i r and the livsc states ought at once to relieve themselves 
Bourse. . . 



I 4ft. The continuance of civil liberty depends upon th 
naintenance of pure religion. Both civil liberty and reli- 
;ion involve human rights: therefore human rights should 
je made a test question in religon. 



leetle repuhlique," unintentionally. 

"Gentilhommss ! I shall give you one sentiment. It 
ish dis. 

f A.meirique! de grand little republique vat ieh just bc- 



from connection with slavery, and all who wish to hear gin for to devil-up itself." Cin. Herald. 



Alvaa Stewart has written a long letter, to the 
»°stQn Chronicle on the true objects of the Liberty 
ttrty, and the duty of tre 'ting all objects of mere pok 
By, as minor questions. We desired very much to 
give it in the Freeman, hut thought if too Ion?, and vet 
we are not satisfied in so doing, and shall probably give 
l t in our next. 



what can !ne said on this subject, come up on the IHh 
of June. Let the farmer lay out his work so as to spare 
a few days - between planting and harvest. Let theme, 
j chanic lay aside his tools a few days and work for his 

! country. Let the professional man, the literary man 

let all who lov> their coun ry and hate slavery, come 
up to the g reat gathering of free spirits. The various 
local convi mtions now in progress in different parts of 
he country, should take measures to procure a large 
representation. 

Distinguished speakers from all parts of the country 
wil/be present. Let noiif therefore who can possibly 
attend, be absent from' this great council of freemen. 



We know some professed Temperance men who arc 
just beginning to devil-up themselves.— Ed. Freemae. 



NOTICE. 

The Annual meeting of the Pastern ft. 
Y A. S .Society will be held Anninermty 
meek— first week in May— in %ew York 
City. — A lanje ffatherin»- is expected and 
it no doubt wiil prove a neb treat to the 
lovers of Libertv. 



THE BONDMAN. 

SELECTED. 

Am, " Troubadour: 7 

feebly the bondman toiled, 

Sadly he wept- 
phen to his wretched cot 

Mournefuliy crept: 
JJLovf doth his free-born soul 

Pine 'neath his chain ! 
Slavery ! Slavery ! 

Dark is thy rei^n. 

Long ere the break of day, 

Roused from repose, 
Wearily toiling 

Till after its close- 
Praying for freedom, 

He spends 'his last breath: 
Liberty! Liberty! 

*uire uvb. or death. 

Wheri, when, oh Lord! will right 

Triumph o : er wrong 1 
Tyrants opress the weak, 

O h Lord ! how long ? 
dark ! Hark'! a peal resounds 

From shore to s 1 ore— 
Ty r a n n y ! T y r a n n y ! 
Thy reign is o'er. 

E'en now the morning 

Gleams from the Hast — 
Despots are feeling 

Their triumph is past — . 
Strong hearts are answering 

To freedom's loud call — 
Liderty ! Liberty ! 

Full and for all. 

'ffHE TEETOTAL MILL. 

Two jolly topers once sat in an inn, 

Discussing the merits of Brandy and Gin, 

Said one to the othert "I'll tell you « hat' Bill, 

I've been hearing 10 day of the Teetotal Mill. 

You must know that this comical mill has been built, 

Of old broken cnsks,when the liquors were spilt; 

You go up some steps, and when at the door sill, 

You've a paper to sign »i the Teetotal-mill. 

You' promise, by signing this paper, (1 think,) 

That ale, wine and spirits, you never will drink; 

You give up (us they call it.) such 'rascally sw ill,' 

And then go into the teetotal mill. 

Theft's a wheel in this mill that they call 'sclfdenial, 

They turn it a bit to just give you atrial: 

Oi'i clothes are made new on-s, and if you've been ■ i 

You are very soon cured at the teetotal mill." 

Bill listened and wondered, at i»-n«rth hr cried out, 

" Why, Tom, if its true what you're telling abou > 

What fools we must be, to be here sitting still, 

Let us go in and look at the Teetotal Mill." 

They gazed with astonishment — there come a man 

With excess .vm. disease his visage was wan 

U . mounted the steps, signed the pledge with go 

♦\r..l went for a turn in the Teetotal Mill." 
He quickly came oat with the pic aire of health, 
Ai.fl walked briskly ©n io the highway to wealth , 
' Ajid as onward he passed lie shouted out still, 
"Success to the wheel of the Teetotal Mill!" 
The next that vent in w re a man and hut wife, 
For many long years they'd been living in strife , 
lie had • ■ Jftmd abus' d her, he swore he would k . 
.Bui. hi.-, h att look a iurn in the. Teetotal Mill; 
And when ho came, out how altered was he, ; 
St udy, boh ?,t, ami soix-r — how happy was she: 
They no mqro contend, u no you shan't," "yes, 1 v.i. 
Tt. "< were bles -iuir together the Teetotal Mill. 
Ci;n. a felow, as grim as a lurk, 



To curse and to swear seemed his principal work, 
He swore that that morning his skin he would fill, 
And drunk as he was, he reeled into the mill, 
And what he saw there I never could tell, 
But his conduct was changed, and his language as 
well ; 

I saw, when he turned round the brow of the hill, 
That he knelt and thanked God for the Teetotal Mill. 
I The poor were made rich, the weak were made strong: 
; The "chalk," was made short, and the purse was mad 
long; 

I These miracles puzzled both Thomas and bill, 
i At length they went in for a turn in the mill. 
1 A little time after, I heard a great shout ; 
j 1 turned around to see what the noise was about; 

A flag was conveyed to the top of a hill, 

And a croud, amongst which were both Thomas and 
Bill, 

Were shouting "Hurrah fur the Teetotal il/;7/." 

Elevator. 



NOTICE 



(Ji^ A Tf.mperance Cit". The citizens of Bangor 
have decided by a large majority againgst licensing 
Taverns for selling rum. The state of Maine has han- 
ded the the license system over to the Towns, and rum 
finds but little favor. 



The Quarterly Meeting of the IVEU 
JERSh Y AN II LA VER Y. SOCIETY, 
v. ill be held on Tuesday the 13th. of May 
1*45, in the FREE CH VRCffat 

NEWARK, 

at 10 oclock A. M. Meetings will be held 
in the afternoon and evening. A committee 
will be appointed to attend at the New 
ork Anniversaries, and the services of Al- 
van Stewart and other able advocates of the 
cause of Liberty, will be secured for the 
occasion. Let us have the largest and most 
energetic meeting for freedom ever held in 
the .Slate. 

A. H. Freeman, >Sec. 
April' 30th. 1845. 



Vermont. In seven'Counties in Vermont there j The AMERICAN CITIZEN a new weekly paper of 
are said to be no rum sel'ing Taverns, If we mistake genuine Stamp and very respectable appearence has just 



ot there are just 14 Counties in the State 

Communion Trine. A recent analysis of communion 
| wine obtained of a clergyman proved its composition to 
be " New Rum, Logwood, sugar of Lead, and some- 
thing resembling boiled cider" The operator had analized 
a great many specimens and did not believed there was 
a single quart of the juice of the grape in any shop in 
New England. 



Gamblers. The following pa agraph is a transla- 
tion from the German of Lichweha. It is a bold picture 
und forcibly drawn : 

' A man who had gone over a great part of the 
world returned at length home from his travels: his 
friends came and requested him to relate what he had 
seen. ' Listen,' said he — 'eleven hundred miles be- 
yond the countrv of the Hourons, I saw what I thought 
very strange, they frequently sit at a table until late 
in the night; there is no cloth laid, they do not wet 
thefc mouths; lightnings might flash around them, two 
armies might be engaged in battle; even the sky might 
hreaten to crush them in its fall, they would re- 
main unmoved on their seats for they are deaf and dumb. 

Yet, now and then, there escapes from their lips a 
half broken, unconnected, and unmeaning sound, and 
ihey horribly roll their eyes at the same lime. 

I often stood looking at them with astonishment, foi 
when such sittings take place, people frequently go to 
witness them. 

Believe me bn thren, I shall never forget the hptribl 
• ontortions which I there Bawi Despair, fur}', ijiaticiou 
>v, and anguish, were by tnrns visible in their coun 
nces. Their rage, I assure you, appeared tohletbn 
f the furies-- thiep gravity that of the judges of hel!-- 
id -heir anguish that of malefactors. 'But what w; 
•ii object?' asked his friends. 'They attend perhaps . 
welfare of the community ? ' 'Oh no !' 'Th y r 
king the philosopher's stone ?' 'You are mistake?, 
i " >y wish to discover the quadrature of the circle 7 * 
I [ftp, 1 'They do pennance for old sins?' ° 
j T ' '-n they are mad; if they neither hear, nor speak, no 
! 1, nor see, what can ihey be doing?' 'They ar 
1 'Ambling ! ' 



been started in Philadelphia, we trust long to live and 
fight the battle of Liberty — Lucius C Matlack Editor. 

The BANGOR GAZETTE is soon to be published 
Tri-Weekly. 

WESTERN TRANSCRIPT. Dr.Brisbane's Chris- 
TIAN POLITICIAN is now called the WESTERN 
TRANSCRIPT. 

A new Daily is in Contemplation at Cleveland Ohio 
to be issued at the office of the OHIO AMERICAN, 
a weekly Liberty paper. 



f f I $ 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. weed have opened an 
office for the sale ofAnti Slavery Books, Panwhlets 
Tracts &c. at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 
be well patronized. 



Temperance Houses. 

ALBERT GURNEE, Paterson. 
Please forw ard the names, snd thus favor a temper- 
ance community. 

CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
h read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 
Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



I've eat the frait of many a tree, 
The grapes of ruanv a vine; 

But none, O ilcohol, have fired 
And burnt my flesh like thine, 

Lid. i i ecinan. 

re ar no hAn triers like votes to knock thei 
,n<in the slaves. Voting placed them thwu 
vo ing must gfct them oti. Ind. Freeman. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

V fe« copies -if CI rk's Liberty M ustr 1 are for 

■ • at this office. 

T is is sup ri'ir to any thing f <ho Kiud we have 
a and should be int >e possession of every one i hat 
es rood riusie, ;uid loves ti> nake a good un« of it. 
Price, 44 cents. 

i . niton Washington Tcinpei uncn JJcnev- 
it Society, — meets every Monday eve- 
ig in the Free ( hurcn John ' a x iield, 
i sideut, Fredrick Stone, Sea clary. 

mfon Liberty Association. -*-meets the 
Friday evening of every month. 
<i. Evarts, President, C. B. Norris,' Sec. 



THE NEW JERSEY FREEMAN. 



VOL. 2. 



NO. ]. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jcrsaj. 



j membership. In fact, if he votes the liberty parly tick- 

' et, he is a member of the fraternity, in spite of the 

i whole world, and we cannot turn him out. 

j To be sure, when we come to exercise our right of 

iselectiug candidates, we have the right to ask, is b 3 a 

TERMS I devoted Liberty party man? is he upright, a man of in- 

„.r™io nnm hm j tegrtty, and a man of sufficient abilities to fill the station 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 cumbers. , ° ■ ' . 

^> . w ,, * f . j„u___ lor which we desire him, with credit to himself, an J. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. L i/T ' . . ' 

r . . , -j i„„ ^r.p,. ; benefitito our country? Or in otcei words; is he hon 

Ml communications must be post paid, our papei is \ u ? 

„„j „„„„„, iJffivrrKI §st > capably ana devoted to the great, cause of emantt- 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot. ofttorti - ' t ' 8 
r F .„.. 1 .nation 1 By standing on this sublime and simple, around 

to pav postage. . .„ , , , . . ■ 

1 *f 3 . .j we 01 1 lie gr;>at one mea, will march to certam victory. 

From the Chronicle and Emancipator. ; dozen different propositions, equal in power and glory 

LETTER FROM ALVAN STEWART. ; v , ith thp 

slaveys emancipation, our car wiil break dov n 
Mr. Editor: — I confess I am somewhat grieved i oc f 1>re we come in sigh* of Mason & Lixon's line, 
when I discover an attempt hi some of our good broth- This has always be. n a maUor of fear to the discern- 
ren to place divers questions of political economy, and ing; that the moment we acquired strenglith so as tobt- 
other points on the same level, in point of importance C( ,me respectable in our own eyes, and 'hose of na ions, 
with the emancipation of the slaves of this Republic. 1 : ;1 p.u the car began tOiincve to th'i Scfeth, we should b 
had supposed that the elevation of the denationalized {ha^dd and asked to lake oH board Mr. Tariff or Mi. 
free colored citizens of the free states, to the enjoyment ! FrcjDj Trade, so as to appear like the KHor par'ies and 
of the right of voting, was r a subordinale*part of oui , ,.vc on assortment of principles to retail on re igion, ;.o 
work, though important as a part of thejj^tass of means 
to Accomplish the work of emancipation of three »ui 
lions of slaves; and that the three millions of Son! hen. 
poor whites, Row crushed under the (great wheel 01 
slavery, (which makes the labor of the whites for v. a 
ges. by the side of the slaves, more disgraceful in tb> 
oy.s of slaveholders, than the most abject poverty, cau- 
sed by indolence,) would, as a suboriinat* eonsequonc 



Ik 



ft v.'i from the chains of the labor despising, a: 
;e 'a k to the honest possession of their long d'sus 
uliijsa, of their own limbs, which they hnd long fo 
•ao to exereis*, for the honor and glory of the,. • p 



,, teal economy, the rights of w on), h] our nothern hired 

elnj non r rcsisiance, distribution of the avails of public 

••nds, andfhe distribtrionof the buds ufcemselves among 

: ose v ho have no land- The Sub Treasur'v says he 

■ 

, 'ist get in, and a Bank of ibt Untied S « m 1 not 
■f\\y be kept out, but oc v hipped for offering o g.t in 
I i\t# may think that Mr. Dorr shouio come in, al- 
bougii ids friends vote d ;nai colored nun should not 
. ave ilie. elective irniichis'-. And <ack of these nev 
•••:ti:crs"wijl leiljyou tiia*"they are to be *reaied as equal 



arid be regarded as belonging to the slaveholdnig epoch 
We shall then be astonished at many of our present 
views on politca! economy. 

We must b< ar in mind that slavery is an element of 
eternal disturbance, and that its influence does not term- 
inate in. or on itself, bur. is forever throwing its hooked 
talons into every interest of this nation, in the frer states 
as well as the slave. Every man of observation at 
Washington, the past winter might see this. While 
the Northern Democrat, in the acquisition of Texas, 
talked of enlarging the area of freedom, the slaveholder 
♦bought of nothing but enlarging the area of slaverv. 
And ^o of the post office bill, and of all improvement 
of northern fivers, lakes or harbors, these selfish slave- 
holders speak v iih contempt of Northern.men, Northern 
free labor institutions, and vote against almost all and 
everything that might aid us. and are in an unceasing 
conspiracy to ax and crush free labor and build up a 
system of piracy by law. Have we not all seen that 
slaver\ has poisoned the streams of Christian benevo- 
nce itself, in the American Bible Society, and in the 
Foreign and Domestic missions, and now exercises a 
; ower so direct over the Northern pulpits, that throe 
quarters of those pulpits dare not say one word in a year 
agains' slaverv, and dare not even prayforits overthrow, 
and that the colleges dare not, (nine tenths of them) 
impart iasrruction to the colored young men, however 
worth v , and several of the free states have denied the 
free colored man his vote, in truckling subservience to 
slavery. 

Give the colored man his equal vote, 15,000 in Penn- 
sylvania, and 8000 in this state, and 3000 in Ohio, tho 
>outh would never attempt to chase fugitive slaves 



cut; 



ir institutions, which require them to remain in -un- 
bounded misery., ignorance and rags, that the cart whi, 
institutions might flourish and prevail — and woir.e-. 
whijep- ~s be tn the ascendent. 

So for as we could help the fre.oJeolorcd men, it wa 
[only as a means to an end; and that jrn.»lend was th 
^mancipation of three millions of slaves. The dclivei 
mice of three millions of undone whites, w»s a const 
, quince of doing justice to the enslaved. Buhgrea' ar 
glorious as even these two points may be, in result , 
they are but adjuncts to the colossal column of emu; 
cipation. 

L r -t us define a Liberty party man as he has beeii 
und' rstcod for five years, or since the formation of ft < 
Liberty party. An individual presents himself to o 1 .!> 
[Liberty party. No Liberty man has a right to ask 
Candidate for admission in the Liberty party any of tJ 
following questions. 

Are you a Mahomedan, Jew or Gentile? Native a 
you or foreign born? Or do you believe as a papiv 
protestant? Do you follow Luther, Calvin or We.J.. 
aire you Unitarian, Universalis, or free thinker ' A: 
Irou for canals or rail-roads or opposed to^them ? A- 
rou for the distribution of the public lp^.ds or not ? f, ', 
lur common school system or not? for our naturalizaHo 
fcws, or twenty one years of extension? None of thes. 
loes ions can be asked, it soems to' me: but the follow 
kg pledge is all that we can, r S Liberty pr.rty ien, re- 
■ire of a candidate: 

I Do you believe slavery a sin against God, and : crime 
fcainst man; and will you vote "or ft* Liberty >-r'ty 
feandidates? or if you have a. personal objection to them, 
fill you vote for Liberty party men, for town, city, coun- 
ty, .Male, and National offices? Will you do all you 
Pvfuily, can to overthrow slavery in this land." 

To this the candidate answers "yes," or signs a pledge 
ike ih,s, and he instantly becomes a Liberty party man 
n full communion. No other test can be required fo' 



in dignity and honor with the slave's oimiaupaiion; and 1 where the constables. of the free states and public men 
'•"you will not so trr at. them, you are not a gooo aim j l 00 k for those majorities which brought them into pow- 
. tit} Liberty party man. and you muss go ou. Ql the cui ' at If the free colored men of the free states had tho 
; iysPlf, or they wiii throw you overboard. | right of voting, the free states would have been a per- 

t-l.ns- enquire for what have we torsateai old parly jfec't asvlum for the slave, and Virginia, Maryland, Ken- 
|sspeiati<th"s and quetuioite? Was i. U cause the abo i vcky, and Missouri, ere this, wwda have ceased in nil 



UUpmsis who came from >the whigs were disguh.e.. 
ivith tbek old parti' notions about Tariffs and interna! 
mprovements? Oh no, they liked the whigs on tha 
-...conn:, and that, in their opinion, these were gloriou 
uihs. Ah, says the Democrat, did 1 leave my ol: ! 
-iiorsonian Democratic friends because they believed 
f -.-egress had no power to raise impost duties, except 
tor re\ enue, and incidentally for"protection, or becau^.-- 
i .hey oppose the re-charter of a Ubifced States Bank, and 
• he distribution of the avails of the public lands? One 
.> iys this gentleman. On these points 1 ;hink the Den 

: ats were right, and I still entertain these opinion . 
' Bat what made you, Mr. Whig or Mr. Democrat, for 
: j -:e your old parties and join the Liberty party? T. 
j liberty party Abolitionist v, ill answer yon in the sin 
'< rity of his soul, that the abandonment of old . friends 
■ ti parties, and his uniting with the Liberty party was 
' y him intended to form a high mora' and political fore . 
• which three millions of his countrymen might b? d. 
i ered from the most frightful bondage, to th® tender 
rh -rcies of liberty, law, justice, and equality; which n 
its operation v.- ould also elevate 500,000 denationadze .- 
freemsfch to citizens, and 3,000,000 of white vagabon 
and beggarf. to the honorable independ - nee wherf f; 
labor wonld be emancipated from contempt, and the dis 
grace s'uveVolders hive ntamped upon it, when -pe 
formed in the presence of a s"l#freh©ldiifg community. 

We Liberty aien further believe that the fierce strif 
and contention going on in this land in relation to pro- 
motion and free tri.de doctrines between the North and 
South, international improvements. &c, and most of 
thtrie questions will come to an end by the abolition of 
slavery, and thenceforth- will cease to exist in their pre- 
sent form, and will become extinct fashions of opinion, 



i robapility to be slave states, by the emigration of slaves 
to the /North. So it will be seen it was necessary to 
strike down liberty iu the North to sustain slavery in 
the South. Then its effect on our Northern politics i.s 
o plain, I will .not waste time in showing how botb 
parties nominate sleveholding candidates for the Presi- 
ncy; and the unsuccessful one wishes us Liberty men 
ail destroyed from the earth, because we did not vote 
or that one who had, by his single e'oquence, intrigue 
end vote, made Missouri and Arkansas slave states. 
To return to the matter in haad. Has it entered into 
mind of the wisest man in the world to foresee the 
Obition of the mind of the nation may wish to occupy 
>n these momentous questions, when delivered from 
his all pervading and disturbing force. 

We must remember that we have formed all oilr 
mi ions on moral, political, economical, and physictd 
ujbjects, under the weight and influence of slavery as a 
.""rmanent institution continually pressing upon us. 
•uppose ten men with clumped feet, which turned in- 
• i.rdly, who had labored from infancy under an incn- 
b!e dyspepsia, should be well persuaded that they had 
ueovered a remedy which at the end of five years, 
eu d make them all healthy and vigirous, with their 
. . | strengthened and made whole, natural and strong. 
" Vould it not appear passing strange and foolish if these 
men should calculate on arriving at health" and strength 
to limit all their exertions undertakings and business, 
by what they had been able to do, under the strango 
despoolings and weakness of dyspepsia, and their ina- 
bility for locomotion from their clumped feet? Why 
will you, O ye ten men, adopt these strange methods 
to hobble about with staves and crutches, gloom and 
crutches, gloom and weakness, when you come to bo 



healthy and cheerful, and able to bound like a deer over 
the fields? Why not waif until you are cured of your 
infirmities, and look out upon a new heaVen and a new 
earth, and not waste your time in hot contentions as to 
the best form or best mode of using; your crutches, or 
what kind of timber, or what shall bo the length of the 
staves, and whether seasoned or dry, and as to what 
kind of diet you shall use or avoid, to saw you from be- 
ing bed ridden, when you are no longer to be lame, no 
longer to use crutches or staves, and when you are to 
have the most buoyant health, by which you can eat 
and digest with perfect comfort all that ever entered the 
stomach of Jew or Gentile? 

It seems to me our present position is entirely a false 
one; it is too early to face the consequences which may 
spring from surrounding and subordinate interests, which 
must be mojt wouderfully affected, and even revolu- 
tionized, by the abolition of slavery. 

Agsrff, we are'" now down in the valley, fighting om 
way up to the top of the mountain; let us wait unti' 



bors of his own complexion and others around him. 1 
never will admit it any more supposeable, than that 
George Washington was a horse-thief, Benjamin Frank- 
lin a counterfeiter, or John Hancock a blackleg. 

I am willing to trust all my rights to that noble body 
of men, who will, as legislators, abolish slavery. 

Yes, let every man be the opponent of my opinions 



gospel at home and abroad; twelve limes as much as 
they devote to the cause of Foreign Missions. May we 
not hope that the moral sentiment of the civi/ized world 
will be roused against this vast immolation to War, which 
engulphs the revenue of Christendom, crushes its hard- 
toiling milions in the dust, suppress commerce, fetters 
and corrupts the Christian religon ? Let every man 



^ . ~, _ . — j L i - - aiw v 

on political economy, and I will vote for them, trust that wholovoshis raco . p i aC( . up0 nthe open record of the pub- 
noble integrity: and I should a thousand times ratheract 



under such a body of men and be governed by them, if 
they went diametrically opposite to my opinions, after 
they had abollished slavery, than to act with a body of 
men who refused to abolish slavery, but would do exact- 
ly as I wished on every other subject. 

The, integrity which would abo'ish . slavery, would! 
vt honestly for what they believed the best interests of 
all concerned demanded For if they discovered they 
were wrong on any point, they would have the integri- 
1 v to correct it. 



ic mind his testimony against the sin-breeding custom of 
War, and this green world would soon be rescued from 
a burning curse, whose progeny — inheriting all the at- 
tributes of their parent — are Slavery, Anarchy, Piracy, 
Intemperance, Iufidelity, and the whole legion of lust. 

E. B. 



Mk. Editor. I ulmostblusk to own that ) was atone 
time an advocate for Slavey, and . that my feelings of 
right and justice, could have been so completely warped 
But let us undertake to agitate .questions of polittcalc- j s to me a matter of the greatset astonishment. Pcr- 

' haps however, I could frame for myself an excuse in 



this 'ight. I was surrounded by those, whose every ar- 
gument tended to prove Shivery just, and the Abolition- 
ists an artful and designing class of men, and that it was 
realy nesasery that Slavery should exist, for there must 



svay up io vac uupui tuc iuuuuuhu, »v ua ■■ . .-, i - 

got to the top ©tthe mountain before we describe th ! onomy, and the days of the Lib Hy party arc numberd 
sccier? of tV- surrounds countrv. or provide modes or i But pursue the great idea, and i the time we have 
ways & desee, dfafe on the other side. A<rain as vet, ; .">w,r to turn opinions into law, w ■ shall not differ 
i j ? t JM^rtfaL** if* ! on political economv. and if we do after slavery is abol- 

wc have uo power to make our J^gg**^ isll d , then let us so differ: We can then afford to dif- 
be- ever ko wise ones on this subject. Uut suppose we I ' 

form a code of these opinions; thon they must stand u- | fer '** ut "J""* , . . , u nndrpds 0 fl'be hewers of wood and drawers of water. That God 

ride bv side with emanation: and if to make a man-! »H J? « *• ^^^^k^^ blacks for a stale of sen Undo, their 

good ehoHtionist he must be sound on all these points, v j ' ;'™an b « n S^^^^ ^"foi the! Physical an Intellectual conformation evidenced it, and 

they were the happiest creatures in the world; they 
loved there masters, and there masters loved them I ke 
children. The tie that connected them was like that 
of Parent and child. And thenfeame a host of witness" 
why Mrs. C. had lived two winters at the south, and 
she never saw any thing butthe most uudcviatir.g kindnes 
toward them. I could now ask Mrs. C. when she was 
at the south only aVisiter in a freads family, if she saw 
both sides of thegpicture, if she sa\v the seperatico of 
husbands and wives, parents and children, if sh<- heardihe 



,70. .d p+wlitiomsl he must tie sound on an tnese pouus. \ - r- " ° " „~ t l,n,n from the 

e r..i shore- and crvfor niercv, to save them irom im 

should turn hundredst and thousands out of our litlf ■ •> ' snore , ana ciy ioi >, das he« 



should turn hundredst ana tnousanas oui oi our mw . ... j-^hes 

party ; who would go with us to the death on the gre* IJ» of the angry waves; every hftuig urge dash 
Point ^emancipalionn; but as an honest man he woui ' ' 



say, if I a>n called on as an abolitionist to adopt thiss 
hordinatg creed, 1 cannot do it. 

Owing to the notions men have on political eeonom 
hundreds might might join us, believing in these d . 
trines, who at heart regarded the cmancipotion of ! 
slave as subordinate, and would forsake us in our tryin 
hour, for the sake of his preferred dogma on political 
couoiriY. 



i h m further and further on the rocks; every timber 
aks and groans in her noble frame : I shout, Ho ! help 
ime Jew and Gentile, co/d water and alcoholic men, 
■h and poor, the righteous and the profane, the virtu- 
ous and the vicious, old sailors and landsmen; come, 
me to the resent, whether in skiffs, canoes, fishing 
■icks, sloops, brigs, vessels, or single planks, or rafts, 
life preservess, or without; the men and women on 
sinking ship will welccme you as their deliverers 



• sinking snip win weiccme vuu uo — - nusoanus auu wives, [«ucuviiiui«v M ,»»> 

' ,; " ! . ny ' , f , ... e ■ • „id benefactors: vou will be asked noquestions. abstract merci / ( , ss i, is i , am l the loud wail of anguish, that ascen 

I thought I learnt something from an .enemy of on ; * 1 .. wi „ not be serutiniz „ d f your o- : * . ■ ^ told , s owfe Uil c of Wrong. I could 



can,, las* month in Philidelphia. vho is a slaveholder * concrete; your lives will not be j ot u o din? up t0 ]wa ,,. v 1old ,ts own tale of wtong 

in hear* a .n.n of rrafe penetration- who gloated over pinions as to the mode of nianagmg those >tto "ij if she saw the deep express^ tt hlfter at„ d, oi 

L r in o th.; Lilrty party with" a fiendish which are sailing in -he eye ot the wind, of what chutcL 

yoo belong to, or what party or opinion tn politics you 
have favored or opposed. 0 come to the rescue. 



resentful feeli'ngjthat cannot hot exist in a he#< sohaso< 
ly wronged and which the gag, the lash, and the de. p 



ram o 

smile. He said, "Ah, vou will destroy yourselves by . . „ T . 

-rotthxr tin* of your one idea of -mancipation, and by have favored or opposed. U come to tnt re ; eu .. bounds, cannot stifle, although that heart may 

edging othor ouestions to make your cause more pop- It seems to me that th is is ^ 

^ a,d these 0 ^ T i.>stions willsetyou to quarrelling ^.on tot been f lav h Let» ay ^J And there was Mr. B. why ho had ived hv, 

mou > vonr, lves, and that will he your ruin." ! «nder the rally.iig cry of ^J^^ 1 "* at the South, and he certainly could judge con-cctly <-n 

'Yours truly. I th(v suh '" (,t and what w<>i « hl >' arguments he 1 rou:hi ; lor 

ALVAN STEWART 
New York, March, 1845. 



[)n r vo.tr v. lves, and that will he your ruin." ™ r 1111 ^ J Am ;,, ran sl " 

°" , • ,■ nf pmancirjfttion for every American sia\e. 

Tie then alluded to non-res:4anee, making war upon ot emancipaiion « j t , 

the ehnrches, ;iud disolving the Union, and woman's j 
rights questions as instances of loading the question of 
emancipation with what did not belong to it. 

1 t. ',d him we h.id no communion with those philoso- 
phical abstractionists of Vfiv England of, Philadelphia — 
that we wire further from therm than any other party 
on earth. 

But I confess I was startled at the depth and sagacity 
of his remarks, believing them to be true as a proposit- 
ion. He admitted that no man could say, in sound 
philosopy, with reason on his side, "that we would not 
succeed, if vc remained one and indivisible on the great 
4 idea ' of emancipation, and that alone. 

It is urged .that we must not only be sure that a can 



ward that Slavery is after all' a fine institution, as it keeps 
the blacks where they should be, and then their masters 
are so kind to them, why when they are to old to work: 
he makes provision for them as for the whip, it is realy 
From the Liberty Press ^ & tW ^ & rpa , in n ic . tion , and the seperation 

«.ln Time of Peace prepare for * ar. of fiimi ,; rt< , ( ,,,,,. is ll0 truth in the esa . d s.o- 
This pagan maxim is the only gospel which has been ries ^ ^ at tht . Nor {b. I o»«td now ask Mr. B. 
admitted into the policy of Christian nations. Nearly j hfi p ^ M the Soutb, a partner in a lurg mer- 
three-forths of all their revenue has been, sacrificed to | cantilp jj 0HS ' e and engaged in business that required his 



this heathenish precept. Christians have bowed down 
to it with a reverence whieh the Inst injunction of Jesus 
Christ could not command at their hearts 

The Christian nations of Europe, "in time of peace,' 1 
are expending $100,000,000, annually in preparing for 



didate of the liberty party is sound on the subject of e- 1 war with ca ch other; while all the Christians of the world 

-» . v . .. i !B I. I . •/» ~r iU n :« «V,;i^i\tVirnnv.. hnve. 



mancipation, but on several other questions; and if h 
is not sound on these others, we >.v'ill not go with him 
to a^cotnplrsh "mancipation. 

The cas» is 'hen suposed, that a man is red hot for 
the emancipatian of the three millions of slaves, but is 
a tyrant and to enslave, white ra»n at the north . 

Now in all candor I must say, some things are not 
wipposeable, not to say ridiculous. This matter of sup- 
posing opens in to a very large field, and a great deal 
may be done in it. 

Have I a right to suppose that John Rogers, the 
blessed martyr of Htnitfiheld, who perished in the flame, 
for the doctrines ot Jesus Christ, was a knavish cheat, 
and would occasional}- steal, lie, and gamble ? 

No, I deny it asupposeable case ; but no more so than 
•f n- /.nglo-Saxou to submit, for long years, to be in a 
mlBOrkjr, has* continual and insulting reproaches, acting 
for a distal good, for meu whom he had never seen 
paying hi^jnoa&J" freely to support the cause, to sup- 
poste eueh a map CfM and desirous of injuring his neigh- 



immediate pn'scnee, if he.ever while them th-ught im- 
partially on the subject at all,jtif he ever visited the plan- 
tations and saw matters as they really were; if he ever 
witnessed the undeserved punishments, the namless 
miseries inflcte by a savage overseer, or listened t< /he 
sad tale of wmngs unr -dressed. I could ask him t-o 
if he thought a suit of cott-n and a hide cm meaf wou/d 
ver given more than $.,000,000 a year in prepare, ng l^^^ ioT> long'weary fife -f labor 

preach the gospel of peace to the benighted regions o | ^ ^ ^ ^ a , kn . w/edge Mr 

the earth. The operations of the Amer.can Board 0 f teachings, I imbibed draughts of 

Commissions for Foreign Miss.on* .are are attracting th MM jwy^ »^ was convinced; 

notice of the civilized world, and are everywhere re- ^^^S a 'change came over the spirit 

if my dream, and as; the first rays of light and truth 
dawned upon my benighted soul— there came an ear 



in the largest munificence of their philanthropy,, have 
never given more than $.,000,000 a year in Feeing 
to 

the earth. The cpei 



garded as a magnifi -ent enterprise of Christian benevo 
fence. Almost every Christian church in the Union is lam 
under contribution to sustain and cxtend these oper- 
tons. Still the annual cost of supporting a single ship 
of the line, even when anchored in one our harbors, ex- 
ceeds in amount a/1 that the American bord can raise in 
a year, to cam the bread and light of life to the regions 
of pagan darkness. 

Eighteen millions of dollars are annually expended by 
our government in prepareing for War in time of peace. 

Of this sum, six millions are paid, indirectly, if you 
p/ease, by professing Christians and those intimately as- 
sociated with them, in sustaining the preaching of the 



nest longing tor justice, and an utter contempt for the 
hearties cruelty of man. What is man dressed in a lit- 
tle brief auth- rity. He lords it over his weaker breth- 
r n for a brief spac- , and then goea'to render his fin* 

account. tk( 
He arises in his miserable weakness, and with his 
puny arm tvrannizes over the work of God's own hand 
—that which he created in his own image and pro- 
nounced good. Poor insect of a summer day! he crush- 
es to the earth his fellow— beings his neck with h aw 
fetters, and says with a voi<* of high auth«,rit> , come 



M, and q o ther^ for thou art in slav ; but there -will j THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN 



»J°"he"has desecrated and trodden under foot, shall j 
e one day account and receive a just and righteous ret- j 

bution. . . . j 

ThU subject was brought to my mind with thrilling 
rce. as I took up a paper, not a Liberty but a Pro 



BOO S TON , JUltfE. 1st. 1813. 



laverv paper and read the following. "When the great j Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
re raged in the dismal swamp, many slaves were driven j lhe commands of God : and rehgon cannot flourish on 
•om their hiding places, one woman with eleven Child- j ^ EJ . 0UU j where humamt. withers. Keep. 
en. also a large number of Bears, Panthers, 
?ox-s." Oh! I exclamed as the pap< r fell from 
nd, what a burning stigma upon Slavery, now let Mia • ^ ghal , spnd tnp F ree man by mail to all 



and Mr. B. come with a host ot tOcircietestaDte argu- - adistanc al)d i 10pe t } 1( , subscribers will call 

nents, and with these few word? Will 1 toll them a 11. b - ^ j ntend to 

Tlx- Dismel Swamp! Would that my pen couM por- *t their Post ouici s toi to u paptis, a 
Uv in JS colon! the horrors of that fearful place, j issue it the first day of each month regularly. Some 
The horrid Aligator trailing hit; loathsome form through i | ia yp complained that they have not received them 
the durk stagnant marshes, finds there a home. The j ^ e ^ QQi j jnow tm , rPasoni -we have sent them all reg- 
ard and the poisonous adder wi^ Ued f Qt thc Pos! 
Tlnouch the thick underwood, the dark turbid water ™*W aiu -' 
eepsand soaks its wav through tangled; weeds, thc- ; ethos.. 
mV abode of reptiles too hide -us for discription. Aitf j 
the giant trees twined with thick creepers, shut! 



M il «llMi maBMWMMMBaa8M|»£tr t 

to come while they held three millions in bondage. 

Be would have all abolitionists carry out their princ:- 
pies, and whereever thev ssw a colored person exert 
himself to better his condition, to encourage and helo 
him on. for a colored man was more capable of pleading 
his own cause than a white man; and he would refer 
them to S. R. Ward a native of Maryland, a powerful 
and eloquent pleader for his brethren who are in bonds. 

Judge Foote then concluded by exhorting the friends 
of Liberty to »xert their every influence to promote the 
cause of abolition. 

The R-v. J. H. Garnett of Troy and Mr. L. Tappan 
followed by interresting the audience with a recital of 
a series of entertaining facts proving the rapid advance- 
man' of ;he cause. 

The meeting was then adjourned to 8 o'clock in the 
evening. 

Evening Meeting was opened with prayer by Mr. 
I Garnet. Present a respectable audience. 
Seercrarv of the State Society has sent us j A; van Stewart Esq. was then introduced to the mcc- 
the follow:;^ proceedings of the State meeting; the , ting who read the following resolutions reported by tha 



remaiOiug resolutions have not reached us. 

The Quarterly Meeting of the NEW 
JERSEY 'AN 7/ LA VERY fETY 



the bright sun beams, making it a see.no of horror deso- 
lation and death. Can the imagination picture a scne 
of greater desolation And is„it here, tint human be- 
Ugs immured themselves in this living grave, this dark 
abod.- of h»rmr. What! sever the tender tie of Slavery 
& all the kindered associations "fa slave's life, for a hi- H 
ding place in that delation? Exchange the balmy oirf W*S > tleM on Tuesday the loth. ofMiy 
Sheaven for the dank, heavy air and pestilential m-'ng.^ in the ftRMM CHURCH at Newark 
asma of the great dismal swamp alike destructtv to the * 

health, rather than /ive in sla»ery? If » « as not a ,;enuu- \ The President, Mr. T. V. Johnson, called the mee- 
a subject for a jest here -certainly is r'»om.. Poor Cira j ( 0 order ut 1 1 o'clock .A M. 

fees, they wre safe there; for if ahundre^loodhouuds J Tb« rsremrais? was occumVd in the appointment ot 
each a savage as Cetera* himself had been set upon <,,e - ; ^ m scyera . subjects- 

trail, they would have returned appalled, ahb> unable 4* 

and unwilling t« explore its horrid recess s. -Let the, At 2 o'clock P. M., thc meeting was again called to 
candid mind weigh th"so facts impartially, not looking, ^ ^ husing^fionimittee reported a number of 

throu h th misty glass' of preiudice but ith a dgr ■ ^ ^ ^ , L ,„ 0 ne of these reso- 

■ n evnlonn-T the length and breadth, the neigtu ana v , • 

I pth of Slavery with an unprejudiced mind, calm and lutipas called for S 1:^,00 to carry through tUe Suprem 
Liiberate, weighing facts. I bes*»ah of yu m\ leader:-! Gettl* fhe cases now pending there, on hich the cjucs 
Mai aside ns utterly unworthv, ail illiberal prejudices. ' t ; on c f slavery 'or no slawrv in the State is to be deci- 
fcd -nd judg- , each mr himse/f, and ye. u w ill never v-l 3 . ^ t0 lh? o«Jwa of peM&5*b the same. 
ere 1 t}v.\t vim hav buckled on vouv armor, and spoKe.j , • 

f" - n ' u -' " T i f «. tt> 'nn - \ lri»-.. , ivhofo'-i 1 hi"- nimifv was ph-cged v;iih a promptness ihat d.d 
f»no-<--Hi.- ,->nd nmd words tor tic po r Jvtncan, woo v \ 1 . ° 

fh- sir. of having u skin not c-lored like y -ur !:asi honor to the abolitionists present. 

HP nook, 1 The nor. Judi/e Foote of Western ISew York was 



the iron yoke of bondage firnai> fixed upon 



,•1 his spirit hopeiesly. efushed and withered 
■Chung, soul destroying curse of Slavery. 



STATE 



The nor 

the,* Cidled upon to address the meeting. He aros- 
and sa ; d he would rather some others more able than 
hints slf should occupy the time as he was young intlv, 
j pause but as he had been called upon, he was willing 
' -o give? his voice in favor of abolition: and it aflbrded 
• him jn uch pleasure to mret with the friends of the op- 
. j presse^l in the State of New Jersey, for he, believed that 
.'.he : oeo pie of that State would do their duty; he felt 
great ph -asure in seeing so many females present, for he 



The Executive Commit cc of the ffifc 
Wcrsey Anti-slavery Society, at a meetinc ! 

held May 31 1 845 for the purpose of taking j ^ ^ thaf they wpre cr , at auxiliaW e 8 > 
into consideration the condition'. wuL^mcatf^ fy^nxi this great work of human redemption. 

pPCts of about TOO Slaves & SOtllC 3.000 aj>-| h ^ t0 thp f, ma ] PS «hey were to look, for mothers 
prentices, held under the lavvs of this Sta -C-' IRU . }t teaoh their children diff-rent from what the chil- 
in the condition of sja ven; decided that the : ^ r( , n 0 f f oro -i Cr ircncrations have been taught, for he. 
abject and insecure condition of this class j Ufa. c ,?her y< wth, had been taught to treat the colored 
of our population, as well as that of the free races with c< unempt,he, like others had imbibed early 
persons of Color generally. c& the desire to prejudices, as d had never fastened to anv auti-slavery 

se< ur the highest honor of the state of New [ lectures^ b«l h.»d always considered abolitionists as fa- 
Jersey, calls for a Convention of all the jnatiee, but in order of providence he had obtained 
friends of the'slave in the State, and the I some pamphlets which led him to investigate the sub- 
committee therefore invite all friends of| and he <w» happy to say as a man and a christian. 

that he was ci>nvi.cced it was a sin against God, and 



Justice & humanity of every creed: to as 
emble in a convention in the city of Vew 
ark .n Thursday the 26 day of June 1845 
at I P. M , to give these subjects the atten- 
ion their importance demands. A meeting 



opp€«cd to the inalienable rights of man, irrespective 
of caste or color. 

He said that be was not for dividing the Union, nor 
was he for destro ying the Churches, yet he admitted 
that there was very r.nuch corruption in the churches 



business committee. 

1 , That we believe the Constitution of the U.S., tru- 
y interpreted, is an anti-slavery document in its gene- 
ral principles and tendencies. 

2, That we trill s/rrnd by tlie Iniion of this Nation, 
Slavery in or out, Texas in or out, for the purpose of 
delivering our poor crushed Brethren the slaves, and 
we will do all in our power to purify and exalt the Un- 
ion of the States, by blotting Slavery therefrom, through 
th° Ballot box and all other lawful means. 

3, That we will never surrender a foot of the 27 
States and Territories to the lawless dominion of Slave 
holders, or yield to th« threats of nullificatio- , secession 
or dissolution of the Union; but we will do all in our 
pow ■'■ to bring it to a glorious point of universal freedom 
a;,d equality. 

Mr. S. said there was sufficient i" these resolutions 
to occupy his time and he would that there were more 
present, but when he co sidered how New York had 
been thronged by men who preferred g''ing to Long 
Island to see two horses expend their breath running 
against each ther as a trial of strengtl and skill, than 
of directing th^ir minds to the consideration of such 
subjects as are calculated to ameliorate the condition of 
oppressed humanity, he was ready to enquire when 
will the day come that men will come from Maine and 
L uisiana to attend a meeting for the defenceless; but 
the present audience encouraged him, and it was fbo 
faith which removes mountains that bids us go 'n. 

Here Mr. S. entered fully into the constitution and 
its preamble; proving that the Constitution legitimately 
construed, was sufficieatly liberal to destroy all slavery 
which its Preamble confirmed by securing to every per- 
son Life, Liberty aud the Pursuit of Happiness 

Much had been said by southern expositors relative 
to the guarantees >fthe C- institution, but the so much 
talked of is invisible, th present constitution is not one 
that is seen, but one that is felt. He would ask, what 
is a Constitution? It is a covenant of one with the whole 
and the whole with one — a covenant for the protection 
of the weak against the strong and the wicked — it is a 
fence thrown around the people for the protection of 
their rights, and this Constitution was so viewed by its 
framers, as they have left ample proof of by the Pream- 
ble which is the living expositor of the Constitution 
itself. 



will also be held in the evening. It is also j w hich must be rooted out. It had been said that thc 



urged that the friends of the slave in every 
p;irt of the State immediately circulate a 
call for this Convention for signatures and 
send it on to T. V. Johnson of Newark for 
publication before the 15 Tune, l.etno one 
wait for his neighbor to do this work The 
meeting will be held in the Clinton Street 
Church. 

Papers friendly please copy. 

John Crimes 
Chairman of Committee. 



the cause was on the wiine. but the statistical returns 
would prove the contrar v of that, for every return cer- 
tifies that it is growing fo ur-fold. There was one fact 
that fastened itself on his mind, and that was that the 
colored man was travelling to the same bar of the same 
God, and he well knew that if both colored and white 
were faithful, they would have to sit down at one table 
in the Kingdom of Heaven, for God is no respecter of 
persons. 

He was pleased to see that the churches were bestir- 
ring themselves in this matter, for he was at a loss to 
kjiow how cixijrtiarw coaiJ ^ray for Christ's Kingdom 



Mr. S. summed up his observations by showing the 
inconsist ency of attempting to support slavery by the 
letter of the constitution, and demonstrated by conclu- 
sive argument that the power which adopted the con- 
stitution, had power to destroy and strito? down the hy- 
dra monster slavery. 

The Hon. Judge Foote followed by an eloquent ap- 
peal to the audience on religious principles, to do their 
utmost to remove the evil. 

The Resolutions reported by the business committee 
were unanim usl adopted. 

The Newspaper committee were reappointed and 
thc Society adjourned. 

Let the notice for a State Convention, in another 
column, not be forgotten; circulate the call, and send 
n the names wihout delay. 



LINES 

Written during an And- Slavery Convention. 

BY J. R. LOWELL. 

We wil/ speak out, we will be heard. 

Though all earth's systems crack; 
We wi/1 not bate a single word, 

Nor take a letter back. 

We spf ak the truth, and what care wo 

For hissing and for scorn, 
While som- fain' gloamings we can see 

Of freedom's coming morn? 

Let liars fear, kt cowards shrink, 

Let traitors turn away ; 
Whatever we have dared to think, 

That dare we also say. 

Whatever we deem Oppression's prop, 

Time-honored though it be, 
Wo break, nor fear the heavens wi/1 drop 

ii cause the earth is free. 

The only chain we dare not break 

Is our own plighted word 
To piead for our poor brother's sake, 

And perish or be heard. 

Exchan e Paper. 

The following resolutions were ado: e 

by the Boouton W T. B. Society on M->.. 

f!av evening I2tii of May. 
■ 

Wkev.as, The practice of dealing out mtoxicalm. 
drinks in Stores with oilier merchandize, either for p...- : 
or for th- purpose of facilitating the sale of other go... 
we Believe to Be so manifestly injurious, that it has Ion 
since "been abandoned by the common consent of all 
those who have least etaimes to respectability.— Th r - 

Rcsol.cth That any merchant who in this day of light 
introduces into Uis store intoxicating 'drinks either to 
sell or to give away for the purpose of en. xmg custo- 
mers, shows a time serving and selfish spirit, an utter 
disregard for sound principle, the peace and welfar of 
the community and should be discountenanced in every 
honesi and lavvtul way by all order loving people, 
that the brand of public odium should be fixed upon 
a/1 »uch transgressors be the who they may. 

Resolved, That the' foregoing Preamble and reeo/u 
lies be published in the New Jersey Freeman. 



DIED. 

In Boonton on the 17 »,ay Wi/liam Riley son of 

Thomas Riley ag d 21 y< ars. 



iuu ' ouut) Hakim gtun Temperance 
Sucicij lias engaged the services of James 
31 Biovvn, and ne is now ready to attend 
mee ings any place in the County w here his 
services are desired. If he docs not do a good 
work for Temper i nee, it will be the fault 
of the professed friends of this great Cause 



YOUTH'S CABiA KT.— This is an excellent paper 
for chrikiren and youth, puphshed semi-monthly at ISO 
Nassau S^eet N. Y. by Myron Finch. Terms, one 
Dollar a year for asingie copy. Ten Copies toom adress 

for S 10". 

The SABATH SCHOOL MO A ITOR, also a semi- 
monthly paper for children is pup' ished 118 Aas.sau St. 
by \Iyron Finch. G copies to one address for f. 1,00. 
13 for $ 2. 20 for $ 3. 40 for t 5. 60 for * 7,50. 80 
for $ i'J. 100 for $ 12,50. Subscriptions received at 
this office. 

OHIO. — The Ohio Anti Slavery Society has r< 
solved to hold fifty Comvn.:oiih before the second 
Tuesday in October. Fifteen are already published to 
Jake place before !2th of Juiy, fourteen of Which ar; to 
cvnuaue two days each. 

Ohio we believe has five week y Zibeny paper* and 
one Daily, another Dai/y is about to be ■varied at Cleve- 
land. The liberty men of Ohio are doing a large bu- 
siness this year. 



A Fact t-OR ni;i:\KiN& ..iKN. — On a cer- 
tain Saturday night a few weeks since (as 
w learn from the New Haven Fountain,) 
•' m .nen wi&e gathered ogether in a grog 
shop in the town Weston where they spent 
the evening in drinking. 

U the end of one week from that time 
three of : hose ten ;>en were in the drunk- 
ard's grave, h ivi i [ -lied of delirium tre- 
rnsns! Before tt* conclusion of a second 
week, two other* <<i the number died with 
i%t same diseas, am! at the latest accounts 
three more were suffering under its horrors! 

tsf and ponder ye who seek the intoxi- 
••.ng cup lor gratification, ere it be for- 
mer too late! — fi ue Amurxan. 

The following from the Vew Terse. 
Hate Gnze.te not only shows that 'sew 
Jersey is thr hunting ground for Southern 
slaveh.iMer- b t tint she has on her soil 
beings that are owned as Citizens, enjoy- 
ing offices under the laws of the -State who 
are willing to do the dirty work, of south- 
ern \il od hounds for the human Hyennas 
of the .SWath Read it Jerseyman and say 
no more that you have nothing to do with 
slavery. 

Arrest of a Fugitive Slave. 

A great ferment was excited in Crosswicks, last 
week, by an attempt made by the Sheriff of Burlington, 
Joseph Kirkbride, and Constable Alexander Pearson, to 
arrest a colored man named Lewis, said to be a fugitive 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.— The following 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib- 
erty Association. 

Condition of Living. 

The cause of Hard times. 

Influence of Slave power 

One more appeal to Christians & Churches. 

Bible Politics. 

Jewish Servitude. 

Smith & Clarkson. 

Persons he/d to service. 
"Loyal National Repeal Association. 

Duties and Dignities of American Freemr-n. 

Ill Treatment of People of color in the. U. S. 

Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 

The lawlessness of slavery. 

Poems on S/a very by Longfellow. 

The Missouri Compromise. 

Smiths Constitutional Argument. 

Two cents Postage 

Address to the People of Kentucky by C. M. 

Olay. 



The American and Foreign Anti Sltvfprp Society 
ha e made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
th<^ cnmmincf veir. 

The R*v. A. A. Phelps of Bos + or is en<ra<rf d as 2- 
2ent and Editor of th" Anti Slavery Re DO rtfr. T 
R«r>orter is an excellent paper published monthly -*t 
118 Nassau street N- Y. at $ 0.50 a yea- for » single 
copy. 5 copies to one address for * 'i 00 10 eooie« % 
3.50. and 50 eonias for 13»50. suberiptions will bet 
received at this office. 



? ? ? 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 



Myron.Fiuch and Thomas A. W ■•"> bav 
office for 'he sale of Anti Slavery Book-; 
Tracts fee. at 1 IS Nassau Street, New York, Let them 
' ewell patrooi'apd. 



arc 

• »hie!s 



Temperance Houses. 

ALBERT-GURNEE, Pearson. 
Please forward the names, ajid thus favor a tsniiper- 
ance community. 



NEW JERSEY.— The slave case pen 
ding betbr the Sup.cnie Court of this Stale 
on which hangs the Freedom » f some oOOO, 
human beings, has been argued and thede 
cision put off to the next term of the Court 

WAR. — We rejoice to see the Liberty Papers 
genarajy taking strong ground against this most execra- 
blt system, we are all guilty in sleeping over, this 
rna ier so long as we have, and wish we could give the 

Cause more space in the Freeman. 



s/avf 

They found him at the house of William Idell were CONGREGATIONALISM AND CrjT/R'cH AC- 
he was at work, , laimed him as tlveir prisoner, & called TION Is a small book published by J0I5N KFFP 
upon Garret Benettand Charles Applegate, who were Pastor of a CongVegational Church in Ohio It should 
a. .work near by, to bring . rope and he/p secure him. ^ read by every bodv. A few eopi S for sal at the 

W hue these men were hesitating whether to obey the, Freeman yfe ., Bo0 n ton . N. J. 
Sheriff or to follow their own feelings I 

Lewis who was firmly grasped by each arm, with an al j ; i ~~ 

most superhuman effort, dashed the officerB from him to ' r^NTl SLAVERY BOGK.S For >»alc at ike Cfflce of 
some distance, and jumpad a! a bound over a high gate, 1 tne F reem » n ) Boonton, N. J 



aud then over a high pale fence with out touching 
either. He then ran across a fiV/d and partly through the 
creek, but recollecting that if his clothes were wet th«y 
vrouid impede his flight he returned and crossed the 
creek by a neighboring b'idg -. He ran te the house of 
a friend aear by, in o-rent alarm, crying oat, Ihey havr 
had, we ! they ore after me ! 

Fiuding his pursue! s were ne »r, he fled to another 
house, and there concealed himself. The same wig t he 
«s-s landed in New York, and it presumed to feu now 
safe from a/1 pursuit. 

We are informed that the celored n>an was much es- 
teemed in Crosswicks and that the atempt to arrest him 
has produced a great excitement against the officers. It 
is to presumed, however, that those officers considered 
that they were performing there duty under the law ; 
though it is the opinion of many, that in consequence 
of a recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United 
States, no state /aw, in regard to the arrest ing«of fugi- 
tive slaves has any force, and that no 6tate officer is 
I bound to arrest such persons. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

\ fo" copies <«f ftkdsU Ltbeitv M nsir I n" for 
«ia'e at hhi office. 

T is is snp rior tn any^ thinp- f 'he ' ind jve hivr 
* en and -ib' tild b« in t e !>oss"ssion of every o> e hnt 
1 'tes 'jood usi", and loves to make a good u«e of it. 
Price, 44 cents. 

Btontnn Washington T:mpt<anCt'B<iicv- 
olent Society, — meets every Monday eve 
nuig in the Free Church John axlit ld, 
President, Fredrick Stone, Secretai-y. 

Btontnn Liber tu Association, — meets the 
first Friday evening of every month. 
M. Evarts, Pi evident, C. B. iNunis, Sec'. 



•sfwtar. -nil ft»< iwir . . ..-x» --*> i i -a 



THE NEW JERSEY FREEMAN 



VOL. 2. 



HOOXTON, JULY c, 1845. 



NO. 2« 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Puoprietob. 
Boonlm, Mor ris County, N ew Jersey. 
TERMS. 

SitMc copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 numbers. 

1 .pies to one address for two dollars. 

Ml communications must be post paid, our paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, aadwc cannot aflbrd 
topay postage. 



Letter frott* James G. J*iruey. 



only untried means of saving our yet gallant ship from 
the diigraceful and reckless pilotage of bucaneers, who, 
iu an evil hour, had possessed themselves of the helm, 
and of swaying her course towards the pure and deep 
waters of universal Liberty and universal right, pointed 
out to u*by our fathers in the declaration of 177b'. 

The anti-Blavery societies, embodying the anti-slavery 
spirit of the country, had made trial of the existing po- 
litical parties— appealing to both of them in the most 
earner,! and friendly terms, to- relieve the country, so far 
,as thev coukl constitutionally do so, from the guilt and 
j shame 4ud cost of slavery— and to clear away from the 
administration of its afftirs the blast and mildew of 
Uavehokliug control. We "interogated" their candidates 
j at the outset — observing tow ard those of both parties, 
1 the most scrupulous fairness and partiality We re- 



Prom the Argus. 

JAMES G. BIRNEY, AND THE EVENING j ce j vcr ] ; u re turn, at first, promises, that were never 
JOURNAL. . , kepi; next, argument, disingenuous, hair-splitting, so- 

jWc do not feel at liberty to deny Mr. BIRNE\ fhe l^j^^ without point or aim—the furniture of petti- 
use'fjj our columns; though tlrc controversy fa otie jfoggers, uot of statesmen; and at last, nothing at all. 
in which of cuursc we do not participate.] We petitioned Congress—our names were vilified, 

\ld»ny, May§20, 1543. | our petitions scouted at, and, as if to mock us, the very 



To the Editor: 



right of petition was struck down and trampled under 



■\boutthe Is* instant, an editorial article, concerning [foot by both parties, as they respectively possessed the 

myself false in its statem't nts 6 and Offensive in its king- j power of maintaining it Northern Senators and Rep- w „ 6 r-i— 

" y a ' i' J eaired m the Evening Journal. Yesterday are jresentatives, with here 1 ana there in honorable exception j the Whigs, such of the Liberty party men as had form- 

. .t <x*aii — -j? ii.~i I ..~-., r .,c\ i,.>f,„r, ci(iT7,.VinlrtiTi<i- hr.icr crnflnrifis. as soaniels erly been Democrats, would at once fly off from as, and 



lition would be increBed by its success. We remonstra- 
ted against it before the public 

We petitioned Congeress and the State Legislatures 

against it. 

We insisted on its unconstitutionality— we depreca- 
ted the 6hame with which we should be visited by the 
just every where, for meanly conniving at the wrong 
done to Mexico, that we ourselves might ultimately 
take advantage of it- — shame that would be agravated, 
too, tenfold by the only motive that spurred us on to 
tho deed — the perpetuation of the curse of slavery. We 
did all we could do against annexation, and, if I mistake 
not, originated nearly all that was done by asy party, to 
prepare the country to resist it. 

But we never once dreamed, important as we felt the 
question of annexation to be, of making it the question 
of our party — of making its defeat the sole object of our 
movement, and when we had succeeded or failed in this 
disolve — having no more to look after. 

There was no one among us numskull enough to pro- 
pose such a thing. 

'But why not, in order to carry or defeat a particular 
measure that we aprove or condem, unite ourselves for 
the occaeion to one of the other parties ?' To do go, 
would destroy us. A single instance of coalition 
would be enough - If we should propose uniting With 



.some half 0 dozen lines? 
pullisn it in ihc Arglis? 



Will you do -U 

Resp'i 



wlHlinciwiim{;jwni.i. ; - 

pi v to it was prepared and sent to the Editor of thai cowered before slaveholding brag gadocios, as spaniels 
prlnf for publication. The publication of it was. prom- before the larger species of their r fife 
ise hit 1 vas not been kept — except in the publication of j The distribution of surplus revenue — of the not pro- 

the favor to jceods of the public lands, according to the three-fifths 
'rule of slave representation, by which the slaveholders, 
j only because the-!/ were slaveholde.ro, got the lions's share 
j — the law for the armed occupation of Florida — our 
I Indian relations and treaties — money appropriations — 
j appointments to office — the anr.y — in fine, the whole 
' drift of legislation, fickle and unsteady though it was, 
j convinced us that so completely subjugated had become 

the <»roat bodv of the northern members, both Democra 
As I pased through this city a shore time smce on * : to expect of them an 

my way to Newark, on business relating solely to k ^ vindication of the equal rights of the North, 
mvown private, interests, vou were pleased to an • ' lv "* u 1 a 

• <ki! \*i «f «W ,enlr/ -md vn- and the rescue or the government. from the grasp of those 
nounce my presence m this part ot tnetounuy, ami you, \ : o o 



'l or the Albany Ei 



Tu the Editor: 



tfifijy, 

Jamls G. Bnorri. 

;:ir>g' Journal - ' 

_n%'i United. i M 

Alsany, May 19, 1845. 

flfOy <Vn.7A.IV. J 



reasons for it, in these terms: 

" James C. Birney passed through our city yesterday. 
When last among us, he was labouring as an Abolition 
rarididate for President, to promote the election of Air. 
Polk; So that Texas might be annexed to the Unicoi. 

He is now it is said, preceding to a convention, v. hid, 
contemplates the dissolution of the Union. This cer j 
tairily preserves the consistency' white it carries lor. 



vho are trained daily to despise the principles on which 
it is found od, would have been evidence of our weak- 
ness, and of our incapacity to conc'uet a great national 
movement to a happy consummation. It was this one 
conviction — slowly and reluctantly admitted — that both 
Eh 



return to the Democratic party. 
So would it be if the case were reversed. Nor couid 
they ever again be marshalled as a Liberty party. You, 
Mr. Editor, are competent to judge in such matters, 
having once as a member of a small party in this State, 
submited to the process of absorption by a lazger party 
for a particular object; since which, so far as I have 
learnt, you have not been restored with enough of your 
original Anti-Masonic shape and jesture, to be recogn- 
ized by such of your former friends as would not submit 
themselves to the process by which yon have been eo 
transformed. 

I will admit for a moment, and with a view to placing 
your objection to the course we did pursue in its strong- 
est light, that it was practicable for ' our "leaders" to 
transfer us in a body to the Whig side; I will suppose 
that with our aid, you had succeeded in electing Mr. 
Clay, and that we had thui secured the coutry so far a« 
any party could secure it from Anaexation. 

Where would the Liberty party have been ? Anni- 



existing parties were wholly unworthy of being j h ;i ate( j_ a bsorbed. And what would the country havo 

! rusted in any matter connected with human freedom or j . , m . ma^animous self-immolation? Secu- 

taiiilV preserves the consistency' while it carries i«r, , . ,* , , i, c + i„t;k gained Dy us very rna 0 aimiiuuB bc.. u . 

ward the principles of that patriotic and philanthropic |nortncrn rights, that drove m* the formation of the L*-!^ against Annexation for four years, the longest peri 

. . i '■ , n ! mrh. -ics the, cnli. roinci i ii i n-T hone of TOfMl for the ] ...I.' U tin /^ni/li-orminl rf>/-)lTf>TlCP Clf OUrtirt* 



presidential aspirant." 

Such an article appearing in the Evening Journal caii 
not be passed by without deliberate, notice. I owe ii 
to myself and to your readers, to make that, notice an 
spectful one. The baldest falsehoods, springing from 
respec*uble authority and resolutely persisted in, will at 
last begin to be believed — almost by the fabricators 
themselves. The charge pf 'ibargain and corruption,' 1 
made against Mr. Clay and Mr. Adams, is a well known 
instance, verifying the truth of the remark. Sa are 
likely to become the charges made against me in the 
foregoing article from the Journal, unless they be promp- 
tly contradicted and their falsehood exposed. As the 
charge that I was "laboring" last year to promote the 
election of Mr. Polk, so that Texas might be annexed 
to the Union," applies with equal force to all the mem 
bera of the Liberty party whose faithfulnes remained 
rooted during the tornado of the late presidential canvass, 
my reply shall be for them as well as for myself. 

The Liberty party is the offspring of the anti-slavery 
societies that havbeen formed throughout the free States 
up to 1839. It was brought forward, not because it 
was to be a party — not because it was desirable, for its 
own sake— but as a matter of sheer nece:sity~— as the 



erty party, as the sole remaining hope of good for the Q( j t0 which, from the quadrennial recurence of ourpre- 
country , or of freedom for the slave. sidential elections, any such security can be extended. 

Its bond of union— its great central object— was the And what would the Liberty party have gained to- 
same as had bound together the anti-slavery societies— j ward their great object, the Abolitim of Slavery in tfea 
the entire abolition of slaveri/ in the United Stales — ih'-j United States?. 

Nothing absolutely nothing. The blood-king would 
still have been seated on the throne of his power, as ho 
was in 1839, when with the Carthageman oath we 
banded together against him for eternal war; whilst all 
organized opposition — the only opposition that can ever 
be. effective — would have passed utterly away 

And who would have been at the head of the govern, 
ment, dispensing at its pleasure, its honors here, its e- 
moluments there ? One who had begun the world poor 
and without a slave, but whose successful industry en- 
abled him now to count a countryman in chains as the 
blessed reward of each year's virtuous toil ; one whose 
neighbors were slaveholders— whose relatives and con 
nections were slaveholders— whose fortunes and whose 
fame were embarked with slaveholders— whose person- 
al habits and notions of right and wrong were peculiarly 
those of a slaveholder; who delibrately published before 
the world that the extinction of slavery in this country 
must be looked for at some indefinite period, and onl, 



volving, of course, the overthro v of the political power 
of the slaveholders. Nothing short of this was to be 
" the end and sea-mark of our utmost sail." 

We foresaw that our work * ould be long one and a 
hard one, by reason of the torpifying influence which 
both tho Whig and Democratic, parties had exerted 
over the puplic sensibilities, ft was a matter of small 
concernment to us, by which of these mercenary band- 
the "spoils" were carred away at each succeeding con- 
test. 

Not expecting early success, the elections for a long 
time to come w ere to be regarded by us mainly as oc- 
casions for ascertaining the progress of our principles 
in the community, the increase of our numbers, and as 
tests of the fidelity of our friends. 

Our organization as a party was tD 1839 — two y?ars 
after the full development of the iniquitous scheme of 
Texas annexation. We were quite aware of this 
scheme. Wc knew how greatly the obstacles to abo- 



t 



• the aperajion of natural causes of the inost disgusting 
and demoralising influence; one who dogmatizes thus: 
;aio may make a man property— time will saorfifj the 

• teed; one who, disregarding ihe spirit of the Constitu- 
tion -4he "plainly-expressed object of the Constitution-- 
*.he well-known expectation of the country, at the time 
•he Constitution was adopted, that another slave State 
-as never to be added to th* original number, toiled 

<fey and night year after year, as if gifted with the ever 
dnriag activities of a disembodied spirit; that he bring 
into the Union Missouri, in her garments unwashed from 
ihe blood of our fellow mca— from the bh.od of father 8 
and of mothers and their little ones 



Slavfrt as it is. We have rarely met with a 
more revolting instance of inhumanity and hypocrisy 
than the one recent/y related at a public meeting at Cin 
cinati, by the Rev. Mr. Boucher, a Methodist minister 
who formerly resided at the South. While he was on 
the Alabama circuit, he spent a Sabath with an old cir- 
cuit preacher, who was also a doctor, living near the 
Horse Shoe, celebrated as Gen. Jackson's battleground. 

Early Monday morning, he was reading Pope's 
Messiah to Mr. Boucher, when his wife called him out. 

Mr. Boucher glanced his eye out the window, and saw 
a slave man standing by and the husband & wife consul- 
ting over him. Presently the doctor took" a raw hide 



The. mar, who raised the flood-gates of slavery, so . from under his coat began to cut the half naked back of 
that they have never again been shut down; who refer- 



.F-rem the»Srgnal of Liberty 
NEW I MPk ESMOND 

Lewis Clark, formerly a white slave of 

Kentucky, who has been lectureing in the 
East, has published a narativeof his life for 
twenty-five years among the Algerines of 
Kentucky. Here is a passage describing 
his impressions on coming into Ohio. 

Since coming to the free States, I have been Btruck 
with great sttrprls#at the quiet and peaceable manner in 
which families live. I had no conception that woman 
could live without quarreling, till I came into the free 
States. After I-- had been in Ohio a short time, and had 
not seen nor heard any scolding or quarrelings in the fan: - 



he slave. Several inches of the skin turned up perfect- 
ith ^ratifying self-complacency to the success with j y a t every stroke, until the whole back was red with 
-vhich he. resorted to alternate blandishments and men j At first, the lacerated man cried out in his ago- | ilies where I was, I did not know how to ac 

:vcas. to seduce or expel the keepers from their places; f n y ; at which the doctor and divine cried out a*M»very i I told Milt«>n, one day, what a faculty _the.se women 
ho ev.-n tw •-, vncn.ls tbjfi as the most meritorious cf- j <.* r oke, 'Won't ye hush • won't ye hush !' till finally he J have of keeping all their bad feelings to thei»selv<je. I 
, ft ...f a kmg political life; and who, notwithstanding a!: j , jM ] still, aR( ) bore his tortures with only a groan. As j have not seen them quarrel with their husbands nor 

c»pn as he had completed his task, the doctor came in ! with the girls, or children, r^inco I hare been here; 
• mting and almost ont of hrea'h. addresing Mr. Bench- j "O." sa.id Milton," these women are not hkc 0 »ir 
r said, 'Won't you go to p-ayer with ns, sir.?* The { women in Kentucky; they don't fight at all." I told 
■nazed circuit rider fell upon his knees and prayed, ut j him I doubted that; 1 guess they do it somewhere— in 
; ; ng he hardly knew what. When he left the house j the kitchen, or down cellar "It can't be," strfd I < that 
« Poor creature of a slave had crept up and knelt | a woman can live, and not scold or quarre/." Milton 
■ ring prayer, with his body gory with blood down to j laughed and told me to watrh them, and sec if I could 
f ver T heels.— Congregational Journal. , catch them at it. I have kept my eye* end ears onui 

j from that day to this, and I have not fcmnd the place 

Front the. Stirling Journal and Advertiser. j where the woman get mad and rave like they do in Ken 

THiJ FREE CHURCH AND SLAVERY. j tuck >' >' et> If the >' ' lo k hore th( V orc uncommon sly : 

i but I have about concluded that thov are altogether djf- 
At a large meeting of the citizens of Bannockburn, j f ere nt here from what thoy are in the .Slave States I 
he evening of April 23d 1845, the following pre- j rec kon slavery must work upon their minds r-id dm-O- 



that he Bias said, and all that he has done, to bring int 
tishqfrj 'die fundamental principles of the governmen 
Uas y t .t the amazing jvDDr.E*i — as if it wore F ASCII*.' 
•nox.-io i'.-ad in his train half the people of the fr 
States, touting with hoarse throats, in dust-cloud 
'Behold the great Evamjile of Human Freedom inth. 

do- 



,~n r S sir, did the Liberty party show no wi 
i:i resisting the enchanter? 

Bat admitting for a moment., that the as3urence off"- 
--,1 to us by the. Whigs, of staying Texas annexation I" 
nt least agfe prcsid-nual term, would have fully justifi 
us iH committini; suicide, or if you please, in undergoi 

-.,:» ci ivjdily Migration into the Whig party, wo., 
v.-e have done' wisely to have trusted thctn? Let us s 
Wlu< placed Mr • 'i'yler in the presidential chair! T 
\Vhi<*s. 'But he played false, and decieved u 

Did be. Didn't you hold him up before your coi n, 
try a* in every respect a liting man for the first office 

-.it. How dare you do this without knowing him 
Tou) had seen lam in public stations: in the Virginia Le 
i isldltee; ax a member of the House of Representative.- 
; it Washing on; as a Senator in Congress; and yet h< 
^'•e -ived your whoie party! And now; forsooth afte> 



I :Ac. and resolutions were unanimously adopted, j sitions and make them uglv. It has he. n a f itter of 
aching Christian intercourse with American r.lavehol- j grea t wonder at me also, to see all the c hildrr-n rich and 
lets, and the duty of the Free Church in reference to poor> going t0 sc}l6ol Eveiy fc , r iniIrs r sec whoo] . 
^ money obtained of them : ' . ' j house here, I did hot know what it meant hen I saw 

Whereas, Theft, robbery and concubinage are cssen- ^ h v , hcn j fet camc (o 0hio 



ial elements of existence in American slaver} - ; and 

Whereas, To hold ^Christian fellowship with Amer- 
ican slaveholders, is to throw the sanctions of Christ- 
ianity over the foulest system of oppression and. injus- 



the amplest opportunity that ever could be afforded aj icc — to encourage them in the commission of the gro- 



r>arty of ki/nvir.g what there was of him or in him, your 
own want of sagacity and insight, for palming on us for 
four years, the weakest — not to say the wickedest — 



In Kcntuc) ■■ 

y, if you should feed your horse only when ron com,-> 
to a school-house, "he would starve to death. I never hail 

heard a church bcii only at Lexington, in my life. 

When I saw steeples and meeting houses po thick. It 
seemed like I had got into another r. arid 1 



A SLAVE'S COMMRXTAllY. 



sest crimes — and thus to join hands with thieves, -and 
become partakers with adulterers; therefore 

Resolved, That it is the duty of the Free Church of 
u ta that has ever iiUed the presidential chair, and tha' j Scotland to send back the money which they have ob- j , A Sla V c ".IS scnt to meeting, \vi??l a par- 
n all likelihood, ever will fill "it. And this Whig Pre*i- j , a i ne d of American slaveholders by recognizing them as { ticillar charge from Ills master t« I mncii; 
leal it '.van who made the first movement toward the i Christians, and not to build their churches and pay ! her what the minister Said SO »S to give ail 

■ y.hihi'j iniquity of Texas annexation, and who has • their ministers with money obtainod by making merch- ; n CO unt of it when he returned The tin'-- 

. lit it i.-to its present form. And who proposed ' andise of men— and thus, to wash their hands clean «.fi, i i . T '. 

, • , , tU , ■ Li. 1 1 i c 4\ i i t had a son named Jona harr to whose 

-• - Vexas iv.-olutions, under which the government is ! the blood of the slave. • . , , , ' ****** 

now acting? A Whig Senator. Who offered them in j i° rdcrs the slave »™ subject. Pomp 

lions.- t;-.r- sam- day that the drafter of them offered i A Slave Shot Dead. | accordingly : went to meeting, and was 

the* in the Senate? A Whig member. What Senate j ... , . , . ■ . I questioned bv hifl n:a«tcr, Oil hia return 

•uss-id them? A Whig Senate: the same on whom the J f he American has learned upon the authority of a MQ ^ , , * 

J ,ib.,tv party nun wer« told they might fully rely to | l-tter from Charles County Maryland received by a gen- j na '^ a > ™« h ^ mmtSter tell 

•iu-ul" even Mr. Clay, should be inclined, in the e - 1 tlem »n of this city, that a young, wan named Mathews .'Wo great lies. 

vnt of his election, to look annexation-wijo. | a nephew of General Mathews and whose father it is • "What! what!"c.\clamed the master, yoil 




it:.'.io::s aud downright forcitvY, we labored to pro- 
mote the emotion of Mr. Po/k, loith a view to bring a- 
boul more surely rhe annexation of Texas, my reply is, 
not only that it is false, but that no particle of evidence 
ean he produced, out of all that we have said or written 
or done touching annexation, to prove it true. 

C^nally d$it& is Uie insinuation that I visited the. East 
. ■ :.. ■ present at a convention which contemplated a 
lisso^urioti of the Unio:i. (live rne a single name, Mr. 
/' Idi'or, to fb.ow that there is any truth in your "if is 
vii," and I v/i!I cheerfully acquit you of having borne 
! i!j'.i Witfiesc against your neighbor: but not till then. 

Respcctfu/ly yours, &.c, 

J.«ir:2 c. Emxny. 

> r.-nV. Allen, a colored mam has been admitted 
rw a regularly licenced Lawyer in the courts id Boston. 



house, obtained, a gun and returning shot the servant j Jonathan teHj. 



He immediately, the letter continues, fled to his far- ; 
thcr's residence, where he rernaind unmolested. 

We hope he may speedily be brought to justice. It 



'Well what chc did he Bny^' 
| "Why, he say, 'He will love one and hate 
i the other ' Dat am a lie too; for / Imt.e you 



is time to put a stop to such highhanded and Moody out 
rages on the part of slaveholders and their departments. ! >>othalikor —Indiana i'rccwor 



Baltimore Visitor. 



JAMES M BROWN, The Temperance Agent will 
be at Boonton on Monday 7th July — Beavertown Tues 
the 8th. Pompton plains Wed. 9th, Montvillc Tim. 
10th, Rockaway- Valley Fri, 11th, Denvtile Sat' 12th 
and Sunday 13th,will hold meeings under the trees near 
Spltrock. 

Many country Postmasters are, resigning their ojfice s 
in consequence of the operation of the new Post Ofiicey 
law. Washington Vtfion. 



I Proposals arc made by Wrn D Parish of No 4 
North 5th Street Philadelphia to publish the Life of 
Benjamin Lundy. This is as it tshoulb be, the services, 
rendred to the cause of universal liberty by Mr Lundy 
should never be forgotten. Let subscriptions he snni in 
speedily in order to insure its publication without delay. 
We believe the price is 70 cents -— 



. {Jr^p Let it be remembered that the Frccmau will go 
postage frco tlirough the moil to all pubscribers jvifhin- 
30 mi/c? 



m 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, JULY. 1st. IS4£ 



I . The. object of the meeting was to take iutoeonsidera- 
: *' o:i l "C prospects of the enslaved in our own State, and 
to ( r.,v;(le plans nhd means to circulate through the 

S»at« the Argument of A/v*an Stewart Esq. beftue the 

1 tarts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to ; ^'^'r ®«g State, j _ , 

.1 i .•>/-, iii- „ , i < n ii. ;.: t.: ie Document, and should be extensiv- 

he commands of God : and rohgon cannot flourish on ! clydpeplated^^ the state'; and even In o£r Se- 
the ground where humamt\ withers. Keep. jaaho. 

ciijeij brought before the Court in which this 
A ■ ~ TT . ~ _, . J^!J«-".«ut war made, was brought forward by C.B.Pal- 

A bundle containing ten of the Preeman has mef of Jersey City. The faithfulness, zea/ with which 
been returned to us without the least information whence J Mr. Partner bus pursued this matter, without any com- 
they came. N ow inasmuch as we send out a goodly ' P'jnso.fciou except v.hc conciousness of doitw ^ood in a 
number of such packages," we cannot tell which one to cause, eniit/es him to the esteem ofa/ltiue lovers 
discontinue unless the person who returned it, will do| 01 
it according to h>w, or at least let us know iu some way j - 
nhe lie is, and where he lives. * J n< 



! Jppathsu Parkhcrst of Springfield was called to the | The Lideiua Hit at n r n i .. 

; chair. ■ | . ^'beiua iilf.ald.— Govenor Robcrle, like e!! 

! L.berian Governors, represents the colony in a pro^er- 
ous condition; but the collonial paper that has been so- 



long appealed to as proof of the elevating effect ofu- 
voyage across the Atlantic, and a residence amidst the 
rams and miasmas of Western Africa, is about to be dis- 
continued- -preparatory to which the editors let out 
some precious secrets in respect to its past support and 
the reasons of its present untimely end. They say- 

ducSl?e C nT" f01 ' fiV ° l0np ' years, been con- 
ductmg he paper on our own responsibilities and at 
own cos In no one year has it paid the outlavlfn 
most of them we have sunk one half the cost oflsuS 
ing it. 

"The largest number of subscribers we have ever hn<* 
• - , u /art generously volunteerd his services in j on «w books, did they pav, will not by any meanf^ 
- ' uh " ' ^nipensation, does not ask any. All P ? rt ™ c P a P er - ^igkh, & the highest number ofeoSS 
- - paid, the monev he has « , *" hm * fl »» we h ™ cucr and Tnnr.r fiftf^p 

vrmrcd wtiMedj tod pav for the printing of his ar^u- ! To Tm K " AVE K f* BR f** D a CENT - 
fhc Executive committee of the Morris County ! «*&t on the great , r ..estion at issue involved in these ' the wSnP^ c J ? r ««PPort— especially to 

'" " 1 fi ' "" ' " 1 * ^ Mwnt f« ^onMitwn Society who allured as to 



ItlCC, 



Washington Temperance Benevolent Society arc re- 1 cascs - 'tiscr'th 
quested to meet at the houoe of Daniel De. Hart near 
1 'arsippanv eu Friday the IS July inst. atGoclock P. M- 
• n business of importance. ' A "full attendances is re- 
quested. _■' 



, — i '""""wiii v oionisation Society who nllniw? 
neatest importance that the docu- | the enterprise, bv lofty assurances" Jf «ta22 

<-.l brOa/WJld mw lU olnli. n.J *k„ a/as! nnra- Vnrlnli- .. . ! "S*v 



meat llu\il 1 be sowed, broad-cast over the state, and the 
| rnoafis raised to defray the expenses of printing them 
| and pav the other bids which have been unavoidable. 
| Our friend.* can Lave them at a very low rate, and 
I can soil enough to t vt the money back- All that is ne- 
eessar is a little, labia*; Shall this labor be withheld? 



a/as! poo'r Yo'rick '''JnZ^WiT m « airona ? c - But 
i, Z , u ,/s on» who was then (IP. 

39) I. power ordered the Society to bo put down for 
loO copies, and said he had ordered all he a^ent, rf 
the Society to act as agents for the Herald, and He lent 
also at the same time the address of 7-1 add i ion 1 st • 

"'TIS subscS" ?V eqe - tea paP ° r ,0 ^ 
lii&SO* Wokk Tin, porsecuku n.r,, v Ijas : Will the friends u the slave stand baclc and 'w^h'co/d j to Oie «0^y^ the^etytSd a'eo»-!rf SCTp ^ D 
heen tnfcrisoncd in Missouri nearly four years with Baa I ^^'^reace , arniii Messrs. Stewart and Pa/mer do all I The payment for the 74 sub-crib * US . ' 

and Thompson under a sentence pf IS year, to the Pen- 1 thc ^ ^ then pay all expenses. The few friends j publisher; the 150 cofaibs were nS t B . 

tcntiary. lor attempting to aid a few slaver, pantii.g for | that « era at the convenrion cxclusive/v from the North | cty for two years, 1639 and 1840 WC> 
ttertyj to escape from the land of Hum.;:; rtferiniV, ^ st corner of the state, took 1700 copies of this docu- 1 "Since then the account has remained ir „„/ 
has been pardoned by the Governor. \ h>eat and «f-h« X pa'd for th«m, or pledged to do so, and j Wo h *™ repeatedly one instance to bre-k his Shi^S 

We had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Work las I are der- thc feast f.hftv can with them for themsel»es I , . T ]? en hc '^sured us that we were exertine a 

babbath, (July 6,) and heard him give an account of his j Will cur iii the middle, southern and Western j iZrfl^T^ ^ ^~^ S wonderfully faTthc 

tnals to a- full congregation in the 1-Vee Church. It wajpart. of the ^ cut. r into this matter with the snirit 3^^,^'^ ° Ur th *™ occa- 

M ? ^ *« ^ &«^i|c;ii demand. The "Documents Tjt^^^t^^r^^^ 



iniong tiiose who have hearts. 

Burr and Thompson are yet in pru,;u in , Mi^uri 
N if tht autliorities thora wj^tocitildp^jSoCtiteist 
let thcra.fc sen then; thero. 



Be had 



bftho: 



^ demand-s. The Documents may j °"r account'. We hope «-«" s haii ™'ZZln"rw™Z 

V . Johnson Newark and of Finch ! f° P raist> '^ ut so much compliment to a hunrfr V man i* 

I like a cambric nrffla o l-. oj 



& Weed ll'g Jtu^iiti Street New York 
Messrs Alvcn Sie\Vfrt and Arnold Uhlh; 



: ... - , , ■ Jr* , *" t '** t •*» i 

I uke a cambric ruflie on a crocus shirt 

iL."^^^^ with sUttft and mortification, 

?ant of its po- 
no mound re- 



, — ., , , . - >"'U niorilUC 

the eouVmhoa and made interesting speeches in the af- we>ociety is so systematically recreant of it, p 
'• rf!.d»in olid «- Vfc2 i:,r. . nia !' v obliga/ions and liabilities to us, that no ground f, 

W r <; have sustair 



mains of hope that if will dniiwfloo 
. j „i i . ' , " . 11 ao .)u.suce. vi v nave sustain- 

:Wave...Seiznre and Fscape. ^^^S."^^^^ 

, .. , W^f^^^^t^^y^ia^irti* m mint 

^e^cua^) was produced in thc neighbood of I which we could not venture to mention wererA^K 
"ur oi.r.i, by Mc-day afternoon -last, bv an attempt to j a ' ™ to sustain the charge. We, a<=k, therefore ' V 
| 3 120 a:id «"y«« :"«i mulatto lad, of about eighteen years j R ? V,a - V of ^t'ng the Society to do same li'ttln 

• f*>** * * runaway slave. The boy had been em- °* 1"*™ " 

■ ployed in the barber shop of William Burley, in the Di- , pa P er was nevor ^PPorted by its Liberan 

I unond, near cur .Tee, lor a short time previous to the Stt^i?^ Uv f °» {he P«^o re.orec, 
| ntempt to arret The man-sfealer who claimed him | counuy Tn^emS of? e ^ SSffi^ 
rvMueMU Lo«,.vnIe, and having come to this city on a \ once made so much noise in this ^t^w^^S 
! -tiduappmg expedition, met thc boy in the street, seized at fas * not to h ave been grown in Liberia, but to have 
mm, ru{han-/:kv : y the throat, and attempted to stifie beer, l j n P° Ttcd from some other place, and theft 
j his ones, sy thai he could carry him off by force into I S *° edwai *3 as * genuine Liberitm produc- 
I davery. The boy h< wever. sileci>odorl ; n u:L ! 1 " 

THE REFORMER, This is the title of a Sfe, 



l Ol HTIlefJljJL V in liOOJYT^r. 

We had an excellent cebbratio.i on t'aenh fi 
Pooiiton upon right principles. It „ a , i a thu troo s»-ns- 
r t0rms a 11 ^c/r/bfic and a Tempcranc 

hlebrathn. It was held in Liberty grove, and wo saw 
Pt one man intoxicated during the day, 

Our esteemed Friends AlVan Stewart Esi;. Sauiue 
I Dorrance and Rev. Mr. Morris addressed "the fnee't- 
Pigs, which were held in the fbrenoona:;d aftcrtKion atM 
a Liberty concert in thc evening in the Free Church 
The singing by Mr Patten of New York assisted by Mr 
PfKtin of this place, wascxcelle.it; Tho attendance wa> 

good and thc speeches had great elil ct. A great work ! <lavcr >"- ' l he ho Y however, succeeded in using 'his 
yas done for Liberty on this day. Soma have already ' un ^ s to salB - c * ,!t Purpose to attact a crowd aroundhim. 

eclared that they hare voted for proslavery men, fo, aad M them John Sibbet, Esq., exchange broker, | W**!y l^^'li^^l^^^^L^t 
ijP lastnme; many others, are thinking as they never ' wh ° of the man who held tho bov what hc j been issued by Henry Peterson, at 187 Merket Strce- 

was about. The reply was that the boy was arunawav | . PMadel P« a » devoted to liberty and other reforms It 
j slave. Mr. Sibbot, who is a man of powerful physical I Z TJ'^T ^ ^ shou1 ' 1 be WeU. patronised, ft 
< strength, bmuediutclyloosed the boy from his captor's ! Smlar! a ycZ ™ U Reprice is Two 

: %aap, cud informed the claiment of human flesh and j 
his Convention was hold in Cincinnari according to : t,1<wJ thut h « i;:Ust co ™ before Mayor to make good I 7 '™/ 3C ™ 3l£ * «» <te IFes/ 7/^/ cs .-There now a -r. 1 . 
Wwntm^nt and lias fully come up to tho highest anii- ! his daii,! ; ;1I1U Mr - Sibbet himself took hold of the bov' ' 
Rations ot warmest friends. THREE THOUS \ND an " k ' Qil bvck to ,he ^atnond, and up stairs in the 
*nds of Liberty were in attendance JAMES G. DIR. 1 old ^urt-hou.e, to the Mayor's office. A large and 
' the ohair - We perceive by the proceedings ' N*' '' xciteJ cr «W d followed the parties up toward 



„' aic Lltl.'llxlllg }. 

bought before on the subject of slavery 

THE GREAT SOUTHERN & WESTERN 
CONVENTION 



!»t u i,.,, i-^uivu vy me proceedings ° v . ~* *wiiu»ircu uie parues up toward 

P the BALLOT BOX is believed to be one of t hJ the olucp ' aad Bboafc *e moment that they had fairly 
*t instruments to be used in breaking down the slave ^'"^ <h ° **** ° f th ° stairs ' beforc the M W h ^ «- 
' * Cr and frccin g «be slave in this great Republic ! VC " * g '" npS of boy ° r claiment » by some invisible, mis- 
. . enous agency, the boy was pushed through the crowd, 

^numhorofthe Fr^™ ^ u i to heaJ of tbe stairs, down the stairs into thc street, 

' -tothT^h h,tad ^^ M ^^J^ h ^»*A* an alley, leading into Fifth 
: *-l.t of the month. UWu S^^ff^ - ^ illto a! ^ thcr a - d ^ther alley, and, ^m/o' 

'I happen agaih. V °* " 0t l ° hav * | hc d ^appeared-none but his friends knew where. 

THP THC kidna PP'" r wns eonfounded— looked unuterablc 

f ^ EVr JERSEY STATE CONVENTION. | thir, S s - at slowly recovered from his trance, and 
According to oreriotx. r,nt;^ ,k r • i , , l SCtt0 ' h(; - rti! :'". to damn the Abolitionists and the nig- 

tfewJerTey ^convened X a ^° f T ^ ™ a > his This hurtnl 

' ' I Spiri; p/ Liberty. 



road 
; interior. 



in progress from Kingston, Jamaica, to the" 
Some fifty laborers were broughtfrome Eng. 
laud and have been toiling undor a vertical sun in an in- 
salubrious district in the neighborhood of swamps and m 
morasses, and not a single person has die.], and oniy one 
slightly indisposod, aud the cause of this was attribut- 
ed to the fact that not a single one was a rum-brinker. 

We commend to the special attention of our readers 
the letter of Mr Birney on our firstpage. The Albany- 
Evening Journal is we believe one of the leading Whig 
papers in the country, course persued bv its editors in 
relation to /his mater , is in perfect keeping with tho 
spirit of the Whig press genarally, iu all things 
which appertain to the Liberty Party. They ttr e con- 
tinually throwing out before the people the basest false- 
hoods, and the den\ all defence or . xplanations of any 
kind from the accused, more barefaced meaoness and 
injustice is not often found among slsvholders fhero 



POETRY. 

From the liberty Minstrel. 

THE MAN FOR ME. 

Air, "The Rose that all arc Praising." 

Oh, he is not the man for me, 

who buys or sells a slave, 
Nor he who will not set him free, 

But sends Him to his grave; 
But he whose noble heart beats warm 

For all men's life and liberty; 
Hho loves a-like each human form 
O h that's the man for me, 
Oh that's the man for me, 
O h that's the man for me. 
He's not at all the man for mc, 

Who sells a man for g;»in, 
Uho bends the pliant servile knee, 

To Slavery's God of shame! 
But he whose God-like form erect 
Proclaims that all alike are free 
To think, and speak, and vote and act, 
O h that's the man for mc. 

He sure is not the man for mc 
If hose spirit will succumb, 

J'flien men endowed with Liberty- 
Lie bleeding, bound and dumb; 

But he whose faithful words of might 
King through the land from shore U 
sea, 

For man's eternal equal right, 
O h that's the man for me. 

No, no, he's not the man for me 

ilhose voice o'er hill and plain, 
Breaks forth for glorious liberty, 

But binds himself the chain! 
The mightiest of the noble band 

Who prays and toils the world to free, 
with head, and heart and voice and hp, 
Oh that's the man for me. 



YOUTH'S CABINET. — This is an excellent paper 
for children and youth, published semi-monthly at 120 
Nassau Street N. Y. by Myron Finch. Terms, one 
Dollar a year for asingle copy. Ten Copies tooneadress 

for $5. , 

The SABATH SCHOOL MONITOR, also a semi 
monthly paper for children ispuplished 118 Nassau St- 
by Myron Finch. 6 copies to one address for $. 1,00. 

i3 for $ 2. 20 for $ 3. 40 for $ 5. 60 for $ 7,50. I 



for $ 10, 100 for $ 12,50. 
this offiice. 



Subscriptions received at 



From the Indiana Freeman. j 
"a she devil." { 
A Mrs. Hailoway, of Preston county, Virginia, mur- j 
! uelfcd her female slave tUo.ro.. Having induced her hus- 
i band to tie her hands, she heated a pan handle red hot, j 
i and put it down the slave's throat, after burning her ■ 
j lips tea crisp. After death she buried the poor thing j 
! -Ut feet in the ground; and lied, she and her husband j 
it tt sunposed, to Texas, "the valley of rascals." 
! We publish it on the authority of the Richmond Star. | 

I A colored man visited woodbury, N. J., a few 

i lay/since, and attempted to lecture on slavery, when he 
was ruffianly assailed by a number of men and boy s 
! ,nd compelled to desist. On* stone struck an inonYn 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.— The following 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib- 
erty Association. 

Condition of Living. 
The cause of Hard times. 
Influence of Slave power 
One more appeal to Christians & Churches. 
Bible Politics. 
Jewish Servitude. 
Smith & Clark-son. 
Persons he/d to service. 
Loyal National Repeal Association. 
Duties and Dignities of American Freemen. 
Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. S> 
Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 
The lawlessness of slavery. 
Poems on S/avery by Longfellow. 
The Missouri Compromise. 
Smiths Constitutional Argument. 
Two cents Postage 

Address to the People of Kentucky by C. M. 



Cbv. 



(jtj. The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
j has made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
ive citi-'en from the country, and injured him consider- the ct)rnm i n£ r year. 

ab i y __iV J. State Gazette. ! The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 

i» Pnllrr Vnt and Editor of the Anti Slavery Reporter. Tin- 

Reporter is an excellent paper published monthly at 



i A cobler and his wife haveing removed from the 
i lountry to this city, were overheard holding the fol- 
| /owing conversation together upon religious expediency 
. now they had got to Cincinati." 
j Husband. "Since we have got here to live, it's ne- 
j , SS ary we should join ourselves to some church, eause 
; it will' bring in custom— ye know! Which soct will be 
the most advantageous to us, in that respect? The great 



US Nassau street N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year for a sing 1 . ' 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies $ 
3,50. and 50 copias for $ 12,50. subcriptions wili \m 
received at this office. 



j folks want much work in our line. The denomination 
i where there is the greatest number of common, poor 
j people, like ourselves, will best answer our purpose; 
j n ..w, for my part, I think the Methodist church is the 
I 0 nc— they are wonderful plain sort'r of Christians? 

Wife. "Now, husband, I think the Baptist people are 
more kind'r like our sort of folks, them 'ere what'lldeal 
with us— I think we'd better join there." 

Husband. "I wish we could manage and contrive 
so's t<> get the custom of both these numerous classes. 
I'm sure they're the people forus,we;must ha mighty 



% 9 A ? ? 
ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STOltE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened on 
office for the sale of Anti Slavery Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c. at 118 Nassau Stree'., N'-w York, I them 
be wellpatronized. 



' serious. 

Wife, "Husband I'll tell ye— you join the Methodist 
and /'//join the Baptists.— So as you bring custom from 
them 'ere,/'« bring work from 'tothers; then we'll have 
twe strings to our bow, ye know— there can be no harm 
i»'t.--Try and keep it [sly— shine dark!" 



Temperance Houses. 

ALBERT GURNEE, Patcr.om 
Please forward the names, and thus favor a temper- 
ance community. 



li.-- in .uiu . -'j - * t> "VT 

Husband." Well said— that's the plan— give mc you j Freeman Office, Boonton, «. J 



hum'? i>oi*r.s - It is said the Great Pittsburg fire, 
(p which about $9,000,000, were lost and hundreds ot 
families turned out into the streets houseless, was caus- 
ed by the carelessness of a drunken washer-woman. 

Fruits of Emncipation. The following letter, in 
the United States Gazette, ^^^"^^^J wh^ontrives.-^o ftl soon have cobbling enough to 
which emancipation has brought upon the British West, ^ ^E.rchanqe paper 

TV | & O J 

Indies. , i . . e 

Barbados, Aprif 25.— Since my last, business has ; T „ E D EAC bti Eon mp..— 'Papa.' said one of Uu 
been extremely brisk in the in products of the Island; i £ the Deacon. 'I hud a funny dream last night.' 
the amount brought to market exceeds that remembered i < Wd/ T„mmy, what was your dream? 
for many years.— Thequantily shipped of the present ! q iTetm „\ t h c devil came into your stom.' 

,-rop amounts up to this pr^sen dale, to of : <The devil !' 

sue ah. i *y cs Pa, the devil, that ho fouud you drawing a glass 

Hhd*. Tierm. Mb. of . for p()or Ambro j ams , w h<> had cruelly broke a 

761 h2 ° R jjg babp , s ann the same day WcW she cried when 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office ot\. 
boys I the Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



12,382 

MOt.ASsr.*. 

Puncheon*. Hhds. 

1,205 95 • l S 

This quantity, compared with that, of the enrspondm^ 
period of last year, shows an excess m sugar ot BjWB 
packages and in molasses of 700 packages. 

The West India bank made its half yearly report on 
the 21st April; its assets $4,832, 555,84; its debts on 
current drafts and accounts, are $3,110,007,39; , circula- 
tion $ 547,285. A dividend has been declared of four 
per cent, for the six months. A surplus profit has been 
carried to reserve fund. 

The Barbados Globe of the 23d April states, "that 
the consumption of Hour and corn meal in this island,** 
late, amouuts to up wards of 1500 barrels a week. A 
tow cargoes of /umber would be acceptable hero at pres- 
ent as it is extremely scarce." 



he came home drunk. 

And I thought the devil, came up to thc counter, and 
laid his tail on the chair, and leaned over the barrel 
where you were stooping to draw if, and asked you if you 
was a deacon. And I thought you did'nt look «P but 
said you was, and he grinned and shook his tail like a 
cat thathas a rat, andsays he tome, that's the deacon for 
rne !' and run out of thc shop laughing so loud that 1 pu t 
my fingers in myears and woke up., 

The deacon quit the traffic and joined the Washing- 
tonion Temperance Society. 

A State Liberty" Convention is to ba held hi Maine 

on the Fourth of July at Portland. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel are for 
sale at ibis office. 

This is superior to any thing- 01**0 kind we hue 
seen, and shoud be in the possession of every one <hat 
loves good music, and lores to make a good iiso of It. 
Price* 44 cents. 



Boonton Washington Temperance Bmcv* 
olent •Wypr-incets every Monday eve 
rriftg in the Free Church. John Waxfield| 
President, Fredrick Stone, Svcrlmij. 

Boonton Liberty Association,— meets tl 
first Friday evening of every month. 
M. Evarts, President, C B. Morris, Sec. 



THE" NEW JERSEY 




VOL. 2. 



BOGJYTOJy, AUGUST ?, 1845. 



NO. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHIN GRIMES, Editor and PEOPniETec. 
Boonton, Morris Coimty, New Jersey. 



land, Joseph Shotwell, Hugh Davids, Elijah Pound. 

.Essex, Jesse Clark, Joseph Stackhouse, Jeremiah 
Shotwell, John Webster Jan., William Shotwell Jun. 

Moumou;h, Richard Wain, Edmund Williams, 
William Hartshorne. 

Morris, Hartshorne Fitz Randolph, Henry Moore 
Isaac Harjs. 

Sussex; Thomas Anderson, Samuel Lundy, Christian 
Schmuek, William Ryerson. 

Hunterdon; James Ewing, Moore Freeman, Peter 



TERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 12 cumbers. 

10 copies to one address for two dollars. 

All communications must be post paid, onr paper is 
published at a pecuniary sacrifice, and we cannot afford j Qonh ^ John p ottS) 6eorgB BulIick 
topay postage. j Burlington; Peter Sliiras, Thomas Newbold, Bur- 

_iaiaz^irr~~WTTMirii ri , ifi n ■ 11 i;! --- : - a - ; '" k -* jgiss Allison, John Hopkins, Robert Pearson 

For the Freeman. G/ouccstcr; Franklin Davenport, Thomas Stitcs, 

(Joseph Alvan, John Kilie, Tin mas Carpenter. 

Mr. Editor, In these degenerate times, and amid j Sa]eia . j oh „ Wistar, Allen Cougleton, Edward 
the denunciations so liberally bestowed upon the aboli- j Burrough, Clement Half, Josiah Shin, 
lioniits, it may be well to look back to good old times I The Anti Slavery Sor>.-ty organized some years ago 
and see what were the conduct and principles of our K n Gloucester County, adopted the Preamble of the old 
Farhers. To show this, I copy for your paper, the ! Society as being expressive of their principles. Are 
Preasoble and Constitution of the New Jersey Society j these sentiments any more i ncendiary or fanatical now 
for promoting the abolition of Slaver/ of 1733, and ap- ; than they were then? A::d' yet wiseacres often de- 
pend the names of the members. Alas! where are their I .,, , UU ee modorn abolition, while they attempt to laud 
Sons? degenerated, too many of them, or mere oppo- 1 the old Society. Indeed I have heard a learned Judge 
6crs of slavery in the abstract, which you know is pro - ( upon the bench do this in no nice terms. 



ductive of no good results. 

"PrwiaJ/c; When we consider the principles v hid. j 
animated our Forefathers to fly from u rannv and pi i 
secu'.ion, and seek an asylum in the then inhospitable j 
tho' now favored land: when we c nlemplate. oiir sitiia- : 
tioD as citizens of a free and ' enlightened Governm- :. j 
in foil possession of the inestimab/e bkgssijjgs of rivi, j 
nod religious liberty, and peculiarly favored by that high j 
degree of political prosperity to, which Providence hath'j 
been pleased to conduct us; when wc rilcct that v . j. 
are beiisgs of one nature, acknowledging one common | 
parent; we conceive it to be our duty to consult ape i 



OLD GLOUCESTER, 



HORRIBLE 



The following facts are related by G. W. Clark' 
They, transpired near Oakland college,Miss.: — 

A '-laveholder, a short time previous to his death, 
made provision for the /ibaration of his slave*. Those 
bo were intrusted with the execution of his d> sigus, 
jailing, or refnsiag to carry ont his last will and testa- 
meut concerning the slaves, the iaiter became restive 
and impatient to enjoy th ir long looked for boon. At 
length, disappointed, expecting to besdld, and incensed 
promote the happiness of our fellow men, however di* j at their oppressors, taey set tire to the overseer's dwell- 
vur8ifiei*fcy colour, rank or re/igion. It is our boast, ling and burnt it to the ground. A little chiid which 
that wk livi under a government founded on principled j. hey M ere unable to rescue, was consumed in the 
of Justice and Reason, wherein life,* liberty, and the ; dames. The slaves, > i^bi or nine in number, were ta - 
pursxrit of hnppincss,' are recognized; ns the' 1 ' universe i ken, and two of them hung up on the spot. The oth- 
righrs of men: and whilst -we arc anxious to preserv j ers were taken iuto en old log house and chained to the 
those rights to ourselves, and^trsiismit them inviolate ti j 5oor« The house was th* a set on me, and these poor 
our posterity, Ve abhor that inconsistent, illiberal an i of American slavery, after having been degra- 

i'nterested policy, which withholds those rights frqn J deprived of education, of liberty, of the fruits of 
from an unfortunate and degraded class of our. felloe i ;r labor and of all their rights, were, by a slow fire 
creatures, under a full conviction of the truth of the: ■, burned to death in this most shocking mauner,while the 
principles, which we are desirous to promote and car: Jair was rent with their unavailing shrieks and screamy 

into effect, by all constitutional and lawful ifleons, the 

Subscribers do nsree to associate themselves under th. 
title of the New Jersey Society for promoting the nl o 
lition of Slavery. 

The different Sections of the constitution adop: 
under this Preamble, relate principally to order of but 
ness, and I omit all of them except the 12 sectio; 
which explains more fully the objects of the Society. 



j Stealing Stable Boys.— Mr. Kirkman the owner 

' : Peytonia, published a card from Baltimore, express 

e.;g his senso of the -''gentlemanly courtes and chiva! 

! ous impartiality with wkich he was treated by the 

\ ntleman of tho Northern Turf." The trip to the 

j North was of unalloyed pleasure, but for "the theft" of 

, ! ' « o of his stable boys [slav- s] by the. Philadelphia ah- 
Section 113, The duties of the acting committee shai! lion j st; . , 

be to carry iuto execution the resolves of the society,; tx, , t , ,, , , 

, C± , J - ,. , ., , , VI he 'boys' have probably uudertakea u toot kale 

and of the county meetings; admit members, to seek, > 4 u ' iw »i r±. 

. t .•„,,, ij /L 4 i, i „ e L. j , .awards the. North 3tar. The prize m that race s 

out obiects entitled to relief by the laws of the lano ,. . l 

i ■ , , " • ii .. worth strugelmE for. 

state their cases by themselves in counsel, and use a : 00 - 

diligence in procuring by lawful and peaceable means; STEWARTS ARGUMENT. We again appeal to 
emancipation from slavery. j the friends of liberty in our State to see to it that this 

Joseph Bloomfield was President, Rebcrt Smith Jr. ; document is scattered over the State. It is an importea! 
Secretary. j document and it is a very important time to get it be - 

[Here follows a list of 81 names; members of the Soci- 1 fore the people. Let there be no delay in this mattet 



ety.] 



| Small sums of Money can be well kid out in this mat- 



The above names, ) believe belong to the County 0{ \ ^ f ^ n6t J e don< '-, ™™$f& ?° jmpor- 



Gloucester; of those in other Counties I know nothing 
except as giveu for officers and acting committees, as 
folio s; William Parrot and Richard Hartshorne were 
vice-Presidents; William Coxe Jun. was Treasurer; the 
acting committees were, for 

Middlesex County, Joseph Bayard; Ambrose Cope- 



The people of New Jersey should un 
derstand this subject thoroughly. The slave question 
in our State is not settled. Who can be inactive . and 
remain innocent? 

These Documents maybe had of Finch & Weed, 118 
Nassau Street N. Y. and of Thomas V. Johnson Mar- 
ket Street Newark- 



The True Liberty Pni fy. 

In the New England States generally, colored p00p l o 
enjoy the right of suffrage. Connecticut is an exception 
to this remark. The Anti-slavery Society latch peti- 
tioned the ledgislatnre to extend the sufijage to the 
proscribed colored man; their petitions were referred 
but the committee reported against them, their report 
was unanimously accepted, and a resolution passed for 
leave to withdraw the petition. The majority in the 
legislature is Whig'; and the Tribune urges upon the 
abolitonist the po'icy of uniting with the whigs, who are 
so favorable to a removal of the disabilities from the 
blacks! Alas! Mr. Tribune —Gin. Weekly Herald. 

Shameful! — :! The tow-boat Swan pas- 
sed a dt-ad body on the 22d inst about ten 
miles above the passes, supposed to be a 
bright mulatto— had on a flannel shirt, & 
duck pantaloons with and an iron collar a- 
round his neck to which was attached about 
en fee! of rope!! 1 itch is the statement 
found in the New Orleans Bee. of April 24 

mz>. 1 1 '■ 

hi w eh. era cl eristic <} r ; i (' rTn<rr(( n an 
ifested here \ 0 one eared ab ut it. It rra i; 
only a dead slave. V\ hai wa> there stranffe 
about it ? Slave- were often s en by these 
travelers, "ron collars were common; and 
ropes were no novelty how entirely is he,- 
inanity effaced from the he ar! by slavery. 

S gval <>j Liberty. 

Most Horrible!-- An merican at Rio, 
writing an account of the . razilian slave 
tradc : give* the following terrible descrip- 
tion of'< scene ou board one of these float- 
ing hells. 

'The first night af er we left the east 
coast of \frica with a cargo of about 650 
blacks, a part of the men got loose from 
their manicles anil attempted to rise ot; the 
crew. /"Brazilian.) but they being armed 
with muskets, and cutlasses, soon drcve be- 
low again and for some time after they 
submitted and cried for quarter, continued 
fire upon them and killed a good many. A 
few days after a mock trial was had, and 
a number was condemned to be executed. 

Accordingly some were hoisted up to the 
foreyard, being two chained together and 
then shot dead And when two were taken 
out of the hole and only one was to die, in- 
stead of knocking theironsoff. they took the 
po-r fellow and. chopped his foot off, and so 
slipped his loot out. and then run him up to 
the yard and shot him. In this manner forty 
six men and woman were murdered by 
these wretches in human form. 

And when Manuel Pinto da Fonseca 
says the slave-trade could not be carried on 
but for the assistance of the American flag, 
it is time that something should be done by 
our government to enforce the law oa this 
subject,— J I e.x/r-m Citizen- 



From the Albany Patriot. 



LT3 



'iVarrative 
v. ity ol more 
oiKen.ucsy.' 



the sucermgs oi juewis ui: r«. aurmg : 

twentj .ejjesrs among the Aigenae 
It is only a single s ■; 1 ;fo::ai.:! o: me siive 

louring the ten years inat 1 uvea wim iviKs r anion 
I do not tbink — ~r - wa& as ma.iy cays, v/iieu ene was 
at home, that 1 or some other slave, did'nbt receive some 
kind of beating or a. _ . a> her i.aadi». it seemed as 
though sue oouid not live nor sleep, unless some poor 
back was smart ng, some head beating with pain, or 
some eye tilled with tears, around r»er. 

When about nine years old, i was sent m me evening 
to catch and toil a turitey .They were securely sleeping 
in a trey — their accustomed resting place for me high;-. 

I apprjdehed as cautiously as possible, selected the 
vhtim 1 was directed to catch, but just aa i graspeu 
him in pay hand ray foot slipped, and he mads hk> escape 
from the tree and lied beyond my reach. 

1 retained with a heavy hear- to my mistress, with 
the story of my uusfonuhe. She was enraged Ley oik.; 
measure. She determin< d at.ooceihat 1 should jSaife 
Whiping of tho worst kind, and she was bent on adaing 
all tne agravauoaapossmle.. Master had gone to I ten 
drunk, and was now as fast aeie- p as drunkard eve.; 
ore.* -A., any rate he was tilling lh« house with the 
r.oirjv. of his ;;uoricg and with the perfume of h;s breath. 

i was ordexd to go and call him-r-wake him up- 
and ask him to be kind enough to give me fifty gooa 
emart lashes. '£■■< be whipped is bad enough to ask for 
it is worse — to ask a drunken man to wnipycuis to bad. 

i would sooner have gone to a nest of rattlesnakes'; i 
than to the. bed of this druaimrd.> ; 

But go I must Softly I crept along, and gently i-hook 
his arm, and said with trembling voice, 'Master, Mas- 
tor, Mistress •'ants you to get up.' This did not go to 
the exteo' of her command, and ia .great fury t>hc called 
Otic — *vv'hat, you wont ask him to whip you, will you?'' 
I th-n added, Mistress wants you to give mo fifty lashes. 

A bear, at the smell of a lamb was never roused quick- 
er. 

'Yes, ye 7, that i will; IrU give you such a whipping 
as you will nover will wan: ag.i:a.' And sure enough 
so ha did he .'.prarfg from the bed, seized me by the 
hair [ashed me , ith a hanb'ful .f switches, threw me my 
wacie length on the ioor, kicked and cuffed mo worse 
than he would a dog, and then threw mo with all his 
(Strength out of the d 'Or, d>ad than alive. There I lay 
for aioe.g lime, scarcely abie and not dareing to move, 
till I could hear no sound of the fuf.es within, and then 
crept to my couch, longing for death to 
tut an end to my misery. I had no friend in the world 
to whom 1 could utter nc word of complain., or to 
■whom i could look for protection. 

Mr. Eantoa owned a blacksmith shop ia which he 
r»^2ut soma of his time, though he was not a very cf- 
ficent hand at the £re One day Mistress toid me 
o go over the shijp, and let Master give me a good 
flogging, I know the mode of punishing there too well. 

I would rather die than go. 

The poor fellow who worked ia the chop, a very 
skilful workman, neg/ected one day to pay over a hall 
a dollar that he received ofa customer for a job of work. 

This wa-> quite au unpardonable! offenc-. No right if; 
n:re strictly maintained by the slaveholders, than the 
Tight the- have to every cent of the slave's wages-. 

Th" slave kept fifty cents cf his owe wages in his 
pocket one night. 

Th : .3 came to the knowlekge of his Master. He cal- 
led for the money, and it was not speut — it was hand- 
ed to him; but there was the horrid iutcnticn of keeping 
it. The enraged Master put a handful of nail-rods into 
the fire, and*when they wh" re red hoi took them out, 
and coaled one after another of them in the blood and 
flesh of the poor slave's back. I knew this was the 
sh->p mode of punishment; I wou ! d not go, and Mi 
Baptjd came home, and his admirable lady told him 
the st tv of my refusal. He broke forth in a great 
rage, and gave me most an unmerciful beating, adding 



that if I did not come, he would have burned the hot 

nail rods into my back. 

Mrs. £anton, as is common among slaveholding wo- 
man, seemed to hate and abuse me all the more, be 
cause I had some of the blood of her father in my veins 
There are no slaves that are so badly abused, as th<;> 
that are related to some of the women — or the children 
of their own husband; it seems as though they never 
could hate these Lai enough. 

My sisters were quite as gpftd! looking as any young 
ladies in Kentucky, it happnaed once of a time, that a 
jour.g man called at the house of Mr. Campbei!, to set 
ja sister of Mrs." jBanton. Seeing* one of my sisters in 
.he house and pretty well dressed/ with a strong fam- 
ly look, He thought it was Mrs. Campbell, and with 
chafvupposilioa addressed some conversation to her 
which he had intended for the private car of Miss. C. 

The mistake was noised abroad and occasioned .some 
arous! me t to young people. 

Mrs Eaatoa h>.arJ, itjumde her cauldron of v/rati 
sizzling hot — every thing mat diverted and amused 
other people seemed to ensage her. There -jars ho< 
prings in. Kentucky;' .-die as just like ope of them, onij 
ehuck-full ofifebiiiKg passion. 

. She must wreak bet? veageaeee for ibis inner eat m's- 
^ake.pf tho.yj^mg- ,mam upon me. 'She wohld iti*. 
me so that nobody should ever think tin! I whiter 
.accordingly,' .ia burning hot day, che made me ra/.c i,f< 
<xeT'j rcg cftsoikeS) g6\cit into theigarden an pick hul'b.s 
Ibr hours— 'irrlfcrdcr to^jburn me b!ack. When I vre.nt-ou' 
;he ti.Tew c'oid water 'on me so that the sun might U\kC 
dec* uppor. me.; "v^hen 1 crime ir.,s!ie gave rrveasevctt- 



never hav been seduced in?e so close an a//ience with 
Slavery, had they known no ecclesiastical connectio 

but the /ocai church. 

13. That the doctrinee. cf modern Abolitionism arc 

th iloctrines of orthodox Christianity brought to bear 

ti .: the specific ein of s!s% - ery. 

That ail legitimate church government is in favor 

of justice Humanity, and Universal Liberty, and thn 

efficient handmaid of righteous civil government. 

li>. That to seperate the active energies cf tho eh:* lb 

?hd ministry from moral aud religions reform?, is a con- 
servatism which betrays religion with a kiss. 

1G. That we cannot carry the /cgis.'atio:i cf a country 
to higher degree in morals than what is indicated in the 
practice of the church; and so far as the practice con- 
nivoe at injustice, the church lies directly across tho 
pathway of all. attempts to, reform the legislatirn cf tho 
country. | ( 

17. That the e ommocds of God to bis people cover 
re whale ground of their civil and political duti.-s, ar;d 

/.eatly teach that to set up the workers c* ioiqhity, 
•tad 'abor to elevate oppressors toplr.ee v f • u er, 
the climax of apostasy and rebellion. 

18. That we deeply (eel tfcit a revival cf rehgioa w 
;o farther goau'ce, than it extend" ."if •:■ iafiw*^ t5 orer« 
e>:u--- the siu of the consmuii'.'y. 

K'. That American slavery isvolvc a I? - :. of til 
ae'Ccinrhands iathp Decalogue, covers as deep crCei- 
i<;.^ sr,d wick<-im-;is a." eo«!d be p. .tic- d am ag men, 
r e i.T wtihuut a redeeming quality ; aud but for the aid 
. receives from ministers and professed Christiaas, by 
die pcsitlvb defence, of it, and by ccgh ct br< p:oto Jt.a 
their h heidua; caTJacity, and as churchet> ; and in their 



The following resolutions Trcreladojitca at a convention 



T.i Junt 



1. 



.tssoeiate, it w 
SO: That tb 

in;.' States ca 1 



- c-.v t- 



eo rc a 



4 



'ally rospdiiit'iblc r 



discern between true Chnr.tiar.ity nr.d the 
gions commrro at this day., 
1 2: That pure Ghj^tiaruty, while it cot 
tUswtfe c«nilden<re'yi Gcd, and laboni.ii 
■ rights and pri'/liit- to ajl men, is direct!; 
:hc eystem of Ameriean tilavery, wi'iich tcducej man tt. j 



The Convention war- ehlressed hyRo. 
•cmt), Ellip, Cheney, wid also by Preside 
lik uir.il eloquent and effective manner. 



■i't 



a chattel and denk 
crcatTires.'' 

3. That while \ 



preroeiut 



of Or 



r 



ovi r 



vancmoni of true Cbrir.tiaaily, consirtcr.cy requires thai 
we separate our selves iroai /he sysjeas pf Ajabrican 
Slavery, that we may give i: ©ox urirjualifjedcoi'ajlemnt'.- 
tion. 

4. That the gospel miftistry i» aa appointed djgencj 
of God for the good of man, 

5. That religicte teachers in the church shtuid oc- 
upy the foreground in all moral reformations. 

6. That we regard, a faithful Ministry as on: of Gel's 
greatest blessings io a fallen world, and i! 
faithfully sustained by the church ; (jut ffi 
expi diencv-loving, time-s.Tvir-7, chcfcsi 



Tho foilo ti ir g resolutions, Uvcro pai 
if th'a McrrisCceuaty Tem:». :aneo S<X^ 
on the 81 ft. el' July. . '•• >,.»».• 

Vy.$ are glad to :ve' th.-m taltmg sue 
looha like bebg.in enpest. . Temp. 
'■ •"m'ah; ' So learn that if they want to 
■•but no. thev havc?:"t to sst s*o at tho 



tPa: ppariy 



IT :i 



lis of mtc/idesi?:: , 
ranee with iti mi 



is ccc o» 



f^thEuV. 
•twet-n- 



two-moral-cvi!? rr.ir. ; : 
upon mankind. 

V That it is the. duty of tho mizdstc-rsjof &o gospel to ; 
faithfully present Bible eourael reojHiCting cttii ct'4 ■ 
tieal duties of thepcoph, and act as the. faithfu! a: A un- 
compromising reprovers of irdequity end evil d<>CK. 

8. That in our pinion, political action, political 
preaching, praying, and political voting,, would never 
have comet.- bad odor' if .professed Christiana and Min- 
isters had not joined the wicked in putting vile men int. 
civil office and sustained oprcsstvc legislation. 

9. That to find aecer-^ to the mere -seat, men Oius 
truly regard the c/aims of the poor and needy, and take 
part With the week against the strong — with the ob- 
preaftd against the oppressor. 

10. That, we understand the Bible piairdy to teach 
that ail who refuse alctiv'e wuccor to the poor wi/1 be re- 
jected by the Saviour, who r< gurds the ncglecJ of such 
as the neglect of hinfcr'f. 

1 1 . That in our opinion, the slaves of these United 
Stales, held under a system sustained and legalized by ]<jmeivnt fempi'ianee Societies 'of this'sUtT«S 



y.Whcrcaa the : 

I .iuf the veun- en 1 coif<cs5dent , ; i'i ura aJBtt fo elittl 
I for such drinks and cncouragiDg ead t.aptingJiSMC who 
have already formed such appetites, to rrotmue the.r| 

[indulgence. tad*t!Pfccrc^3 tb:3tra$r hyfittcttaaiti 

idrunkonners, pcnperjsm, <it;d crime, :r;.p: .• •> hoav; 
I a«d unjust tax upon thoc.o who are oppotwo to it f ^— au 
1 Whoreas thqre is bo Vpo avoid^Bg.^se ^^s i a fc 
t tnrc but by removing tho caw, viz. cupjj?^$wg thl 
{ traffic,— — and Whereas this can otiy be done by L 

gislaiivc actica, Therefore, Rccidvcd, 'V..i 

petition the Legislature to'psss a law .giviag to *-ach 
Town-ship ihc power cf deciding by a majority of vote 
whether they will, cr will not allow the ;-. • c f ::.t r. 
cati-sg drinks in their respective Township? - . 

2. In order to carry this into affect,-- •R«)e!* , ed tha 
it is our f:rmnnd unchangeable purpose net to vote foi 
any person to become a member of the Legislature o 
this state who will not advocate the passage of such 
law. ***** • ' 

3. Kcrolvc-d that wo w ill endeavour by all lawful an 
I 

iion of such cmdidnU- : iu each of the pari s to v. hie I 
we are politically uttarhed, as will e i lat 

4. Resolved that in order to secure unit I and i tHeie I 
action a circular prepared, and forwarded, to til 



.'his who e nation, are the poorest of th poer 



13. That we believe tho churches in this land could \ concert with no. 



I the importance of t.ds subj .-:t a id uiyinc them 



asp? 



- ~- - -- ■ ; * " * i — — ~rr- -^cr t J. l." .-rr:- 



THE JTEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

ROONTON, AUGUST. 1st. |1845, 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish cn 
the ground where humanit withers. Keep. 

State Meeting 

Qnr friends will perceive a notice in another column, 
that the semi-annual meeting of the N. J. Aati-hiavery 
Socifcty is to be held in Newark, on the 23 th. August. 
Newaik has rccn selected as the most central and con- 
venient of access of any cf the places where we were 
core the meeting could be heid. The Executive Com- 
mittee w*.s desiroas cf getting inf .• scrno new place, in 
s-crne oti .i r • art of the aiate, and accordingly we wrote 
to friends in several places w ithout success; and'the 
meeting has at ibis late hour Leon appointed c,t Newark 

We. do net know what ttfc reason is, tnat mere othei 
piae«s are hot acce^obfc; batws knovy wjiat was in the 
way last yen r. A year ago wo wrote to Rahway, to 
know if wc cem'd held our faceting in that Town, and 
received for answer that if wc would go with the Vikip 
nad elect Henry Clay , wc conld'hold car meeting' there, 
otherwise noti- PerhttpVth? un; abolition party ^ac ine 
Whigs style themselves) wish to haw all the glory ox 
c mancipation thejSselves. 

Let the friends every -where see to it that the notice 
o{ this meeting is well published by reading it in the 
< nurches, handbills aud where convenient let it be pat in 
the Nev/Kospers. The Committee will sea that compe- 
tent men will be secured fox epoakera. 



Hons to allow them to conc/rcgrctc ir. the capacity of Sun- 
day School schollars, tor^eid: instructions) no mAttkr 

OF WHAT KIND. 

Those who are engaged in the occupation may assume 
it through motives of philanthropy, but I doubt very 
much if thay have counted the injury that may result 
to the community at large, by a misguided idea of 
Christian kindness or benevolence. Co not construe 
my words into an intention to impugn the good m-otivc.: 
of persons thus enr/cu/cd in this((o me)dar.r!erous cr.trr- 
■prize, but only a. desire to have this matter attended to 
before evils arise which would be difFi-nlt to quelh i 

If this measure is ope that has been considered by the whether the new 65nstiin*.ian bs 1 y. .';%-> j the hw 



regularly manumitted according to the tefta* 

by law, and this court has irorn iirae to time, 

the claim of the master to tho.slavfc; 

in 1320, the; leg:slttiurejadc.pteda.plapiPPi 

abolition of slavery, in which the fciatiwS of : 
slave vvc-s aguin rcccr:u2'-.l, and aa: - Ir which : 
nearly disappear!: a; 
to the faiecch.-uij 
a legal claim uii the 
inability t-> support 
ed rogatory by the 



umber beipg! 

, '< O V a 

--cvi i cubs: 
it n west 'on 



j to tiit" act, 
•oia c'tseal 



proper authorities, and granted because of a belief thai j slaVery; The £n '. E'eeti : .-. ::: 
it may ameliorate the condition of cur slave population I fed as fclib'wk 
'n any religious point of view, end that it has been s;:ne- ! 11 men are by ualJjJ :"r: • 



tioned by the community who are to suffer anv evil j 



! err. am mi 



vrihV 



that may result frpxa this plan, then it is enough that 'j Q y; Eg »si'd defending life r.ci liberty', 
this matter shou/d only be represented in its prc?erj b& ^ r rotwtiugVcrcriy, and 'V: 
fehfein its infancy. , , • -.„,,- ,., „ ^ 

°. , , ' • • 1 u it.-, - , !tai.;.ng salety ex. i easiness)'. . 

I have always conceived ;t ft daaibtfni liohcyto al- I ,■- ■ - , : 



:his 



pxirsu^bg^aodjeb* 



Ihe JAdge, in relation to t^is ^.a-. 

low negroes to woK»tup m masses excmssvely of slaves: ; ,, ' . , 

! .:.. 1 • *. ., . \ , 1 tneconrentjofl 1 m irammsr th:s lupuai 

nose I'sstncticos yrlach tnast ndc^sarily{>c''p!&eea upon : . . . ,J 

, <• • , . with the peacral «rcp«jitica, that men in 

them by the presence ot white persons is removed, and 

»hey are left tree t.cj act upon any measure the xnelftilf- 

rior.g cf some of the more crafty may suggest. I hope 

this may call tb.e attention of the public to this affair 

those who feel interested in the matter should examine 



the law 
farther. 



Prixjreis% cf T.-mpcra-tcc. — Twenty-one towns in 
Rhode Island, including ail tho large towns, have voted 
vol to erant licenses for the tale of ardent spirits. In this 
' city ths question of granting iicenses has been iod'efi- 
idtoly postponed in the. Board of Aldermen. The 
whole number of licenses granted in the State a ft-w 
years ago was aix hur/irtd. — The whole number this 
year is less than fifty out of the city of Providence, and 
probably less than one hundred if licenses are granted in 
the" dty-^Procidfice Jourwl. 



I am yo-irs, fa A CITIZEN 

THE NEW JERSEY SLAVE CASE. 

This cace, to the astonishment of ajmest all Jorseymen, e 
ventnany rack pro-eiavery men, has b< en decide d agains; 
the Slave. Chief Justice ilornblov/i-r dissented rrr- 
bfilbf — Justice Whitehead gave no opinion because he 
did not hear the argument— justice* Nevius & Randolph 
gave a written ■ opinion and Carpenter concurred with 
them. It appears plain that the Slave power can wield 
more influence over .New Jersey Judges than over the 
elaveholding Judges cf the United States Courts — I:' a 
question, involving a fev^ dollars hadrbeen the question, 
Judge Hornbiower could have given somethit g more 
than a mere rerbal oqinioa. Judg; Whitehead takes a 
very plausible method cf dfcdging. We give beloW an 
abstract of the opinion of Judge riefius from the IN'c v, 



uIIIO. 



Jfnp Ant 



laver 



Society has voted 

t v,00l) Ibid year for Ltcfres. Tracts &e. Tbev will 
raise it fi: use it too, and more bfsidai, ' 
■T; si thirds ih's year in Ohio. 



icy are uoi 



Pour well educated color d youth '08 FbiiadclpKia 
wt-ro recently refused admittance in Middlcbury Col- 
ege, Vermont; but were promptly received at Dart - 
month, N.H-^— 



Qpen thy mouth for the dttosb, in the cause 
uch are eppoiuUid to deafr^ctioa. Prc-v. 31 : 



ell 



, get out 

ir Bociai- 

state are fsc 1 to a iouxth sir ov.n : sreis cf soverment an; 
enact *be;r own laxya— that ibey are isjucpendoat tt'u'. 
foreign societies and .governments -inu of the wili of on? 
oa; man or set cf nice — feat in framing their iuv s th/y 
have a right to consult their own safety ana bitppincsx, 
1 irv&eth&r in the protection of life anb iintrty, or the a<> 
1 qu:?:tiori cf prowrty — that the language u^d nevir 
intended to t* applied to rrian m bis vrivatj individual, 
ox domestic cjapacity, or to define Lis mdividuyi raglitSjOi 
intcrtcrfe with his di-rneetic rtlatio&s. Ilg,fegarded itu;i 
speaking of nfen in their (?bciai capacity, and tj..ugiittLc: 
if the conventibn intended to aboiirh elavcrr .which .was 
veil knov/n to exist, and with it the' right of the master 
to his slave and the right of the slave to projection an> 
maintenance, no one can d> ubt that the frame rs cf ihf* 
constitution would ha _- e engrafted cn it acme clear end, 
dffir.it'"- provision for effecting meir object, and net left 
eo important a question and onf which involve*! suci, 
grave cpnsBquehces;j to depend cn the ccn^tiptieaofan 
indefinite and abstract preposition. 

He •• e;u on farther to say, that it had been determin- 
ed by the federal and state court, that the language used, 
in the Federal Constitution, and m the Declaration c: 



. , ttidecendehce of similar imioprt. did not distoib the lav: 
djk Sentinel Hi which Judgcc '. arpent-r fe liauuolph ! 



eosiE7UjNo tuat sgc:; 



LOCJEBO INTO. 



(J'- ntlcnmi—lt was witJs jjpme degree ofsurpidy; thai 
t have 'ately been informed that there is now in our 
cit'.- three negro Sabbath School.! under operation. I was 
incredulous of the fact of their existence until !a3t Sab- 
bath morning. A spirit of inquiry caused me to visit St. 
James's Episcopal Church, where I saw asembled sev- 
eral hundred negro children, together with, some grown 
ones. I asked what it meant, and was informed that it 
was a Sunday School for negroes. Whether there be re- 
etrictioir; or not as to the extent they are to be taught, 
I am not aware — but would respectfully ask those v/ho 
are concerned in the matter to give information. 

1 am clearly fer allowing servants all Relvjious privi- 
lege} consistent with tlxir condition. It is a pleasure no 
doubt to them to csscmbic to worship Cod according to 
the li hts before them; it is a gratiflca'ion to owners 



concurred. Wo envy not the head, the heart, nor th 
fame of the Judge that can in the Mi idle cf the Nine- 
teenth cmtury pen such a document — Slavery has Cx 
isted "by law from time immemprial" and therefore 
must continue to exist, rotwith.e.tauding the. constitution 
says "Ail men ere by nature free end independent fix"-- 
We have no space f?r comment, bit wc hope Jersey- 
men will not fail to read it we!!, -arid compare it with 
the Bill cf Rights in the Cotx ituticn. I<'o sane man 
can read it with cut detecting the barefaced sophistry it 
contain?, and cc^iderwdrlg the ridiculous conclusions ar- 
rived at. Wo clusi'i for our New Jersey Court, and re- 
joice that this rijptter iatnb- carried to pn other Tribunal. 

j The opinion of Justice JSj&pi'w :tce.? oa tostate that the 
prcccedings ia this caac were designed to investigate and 
settle the que:'ticn, whether elavctf can existt in this 
State, under its present constitution and laws — wheth- 
er it has ever had a legal existance, and if so, whether 
its cxistanc? is legal still. It was the law of the case, 
on which the Court was called to pronounce'. 

He went on to quote large ly Irom authorities to chow ■ 
that the relation between master and slave had been re- ! 
eognized by, law, from time immemorial. On this point 
he referred to the grants in Cai terett's time 1664, to the 
minutes of the Colonial assembly. 10R0, 1694, and the 
instructions of Lord Cornbury, 1702, & the acts of 1713, 
1751, 1768 and 1769, which were quoted to show that 
while New Jersey was a eo ; ony the institution of slavery 
was olerated, recognized, guaranteed and regulated by- 
law. 

As early as 1798, the legis'atyre declared by statute, 



tn, relation >.-» slavery, or in any way affect tjle^rights cf 
.r.asterj or slaves. 

in examinir.g the decisions qf the Massachusetts courta 
and those of'virgihia'j the learned judge showed thai 
hey differed in their construction cf similar previsions- , 
end in this conflict cf cpir.iers among judges, the prcei 
- ut case :r.;;st rest on what this cee2.11 shall consider too 
fair, legal and safe construction: He concluded by say- 
ing that from the best consideration which he had been, 
aide to give, the'f ubject, he was of opinion: 

1st That the relation of master end slayp existed ty 
law at the adaption cf tlie constitution of 164-1. 

CThat, that Constitution has not destroyed that rela- 
tion or abolished slavery. 

3d That the cob red man, WiZliam, sboufd bo - mar. 
ded -o the cus'tpdy of the defendent. 



TEM SEMI AT* 
MEETING. 



of slaves to see them thus interested; but I ant of opinion 

• . ,• , 01 t that every neero then a slate shouici remain a slave, till 
that tt is clearly aqa:n#t the policy of our Slave Institu- J 6 



The Semi Animal Meeting cf the New Jersey Aih 
Slavery Sccic-r'ywi<l he heid in the Free Church in thi 
City of Newark, on Thursday ihe 23 of August inst. et 
11 o'clock A. M. 

Meetings wdl be held in the af'crnoon and, evening 
Prominent Anti Slavery men will be engaged to b; :a 
attendance 

Atigust 5 1845. 

k. H. Freeman Sec. 

He who supports the system of slavery is the enemy 

ci tbt whole human e race. Abbe ifoyW. 



POD TRY. 



GET OFF THE TR \( K. 

Air Dan Tucker." 

Ho! the car Emancipation 
Rides majestic through our nation, 
Shearing on iis train the story, 
Liberty! a nation's glory. 

Roll it along through the nation, 

Freedom's car, Emancipation. 

Men of various predi/ictions, 
Frightened, run in all directions; 
Merchant?, editors, physicians, 
Lawyers, priests, arid politicians. 

Get out of the way! even station! 

Clear the track of Emancipation! 

Let th M l'sters and churches 
Leave Behind sefctarin lurches- 
Jump on. board the car ot'Freedom, 
Ere ii he too late to need them. 

Sound the alarm! Pulpits thunder! 

Ere, to late you see > our blunder 

Politicians gazed, astounded, 

When at first, our bell resounded; 

Frcnjht trains are coming, tefl these foxes, 

With our i.'0/es and ballot boxes. 

Jump for your lives! politicians, 
From yonr dangerons, false positions. 

Railroads to Emancipation 

Cannot rest oh Clay foundation: 

And the road that Polk erects us, 

Leads to slavery and to Texas! 

Pull Up the rails! Emancipation 
Cannot rest on such foundation. 

All true friends of Emancipation, 

Haste to Freedoms railroad station) 

Quick into the cars get seated, 

All is ready aud completed. 

Put on the steam! all ar crying, 
And the liberty flags are living. 

On, triumphant see them bearing, 
Through sectarian rubbish tearing: 
The bell and whistle and the steaming, 
Startle thousands from their dreaming. 

Look out for the care while the bell rings. 

Ere the sound your funeral knell ringS: 

See the people run t<> meet us, 

At the depots thousands greet us — 

All take seats with cxulratibu 

In the car Emancipation 

Huzza ' Hn/.za !! Emancipation 
i-roon will bless our happy uatioti. 
Hnzza ! Huzza ! ! Huzza ! ! ! 



f 1 ^ Pr posals are made by Wm D Parish of No 4 
North 5th Street Philadelphia to publish the Life of 
Benjamin Lundy This is as it should be, the services 
rendered to the cause of universal liberty b 1 Mr Lundy 
should never be forgotten. Let subscriptions be sent in 
6peedily in order to insure its publication without delay. 
We believe the price is 75 cents — 



THE REFORMER, This is the title of a New 
Weekly paper the specimen number of which has just 
been issued by H-mry Peterson, at 187 Market Street 
Philadelphia, devoted to liberty and other reforms. It 
j is an excellent paper and should be well patronized. It 
j is a sjood size and well executed. The price iS Two 
\ Dollars a year. 



"The Charleston Mercur, speaks liius, of Gov. Ham- • 
| tnonds letter in defence of slavery — 
i '''We like, too., the. bold position he takes in the out- I 
j i — it is the only one that souihvru men ought to! 



j faike. Slavery , as it exists With is ncixher a moral, : 
j Social, or Political Evil, bw it i$. on >ke contrary, the 1 
j most beneficent form of organized society that has yet 
} existed." 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.— The following 

tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib- 
erty Association. 

Condition of Living. 
The cause of Hard times. 
Influence of Slave power 
One more appeal to Christians & Churches. 
Bible Politics. 
Jewish Servitude. 
Smith & Clarkson. 
Persons he Id to service. 
Loyal National Repeal Association. 
Duties and Dignities of American Freemen. 
Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. S. 
Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 
The lawlessness of slavery. 
. Poems on S/avery by Longfellow, 
The Missouri Compromise. 
Smiths Constitutional Argument. 
1 wo cents Postage 

Address to the People of Kentucky by C. M< 

Clav. 



• The following Toasts, among others were 
; given at the late Fourth of July celebration 
jut Hi mer N Y. 

I Slavery and Intemperance — The great- 
est wrongs hat can be inflicted on man 
Luis tide the grave; and therefore the first 
| object to be struck down by the American 

1 'allot. 

\ Freedom and Temperanc — Lot the . 
[flout ish and triumph ogether. 

The Clergy of the U * — When true to 

• th. ir high trust; they are (rod's light* in 
the pathway of national glo y — when false, 
they are the corrupters of our religion, trai- 
jtors to Freedom and HumaniU ; fitted by 
I heartlessness and subserviency to a vraal 
jand corrupt public opinion, to precipitate 
i a nation's ruin 



(j^ The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
ha* made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
the comming ye:ir. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 
gent and Editor 'Of the Anti Slavery Reporter. T' 
Reporter is an excellent paper published monthly al 
118 Nassau street N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year for a single 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies $ 
3,50. and 50 copias for $ 12.50. subcriptions will be 
received at this office. 



EASTERN CONVENTION. 
A great Liberty Convention is to be held in Boston 
the hist of September for the New England States 
.N.York, N. Jerse>, ami Pennsylvania. This is an 
•important move aud we trust will Ix; one of the great- 
est meetings ever held in the Country. We believe it 
wiil be well attended; and will, like the Cincinnalti 
convention, te/1 slaveholders and proslavery men that 
abolition is not dying away, but /hat there is a zeal 
,md enthusiasm on this subject that will result in the 
.iccomplishment of great things. Go ahead \ve say 
with the Eastern Convention. 



! Dandies. — There are some fools in the world who 
j after long incubation, will hatch put from the hot-bed of 
| pride a brood of fuzzy ideas, and then go strutting along 
j the path of pomposty, with all the importance of a 
speckled hen with a black chicken. I have an antipa- 
thy to such people. They are mere walking sticks for 
i female flirts — ornamented with brass heads, did I say > 
j Their caputs arc oDly half ripe muskim Ions with 
i the rinds all hollow in side, containing the seeds of fool- 
i ishness twining about in vast quanity of sap. 
• Tinkered up with broadcloth, tiiiger-rings, safety-chain., 
'. soft colder, vanity and impudence; theyurc no more bu-u 
i than a plated tea-spoon is solid silver. I detest a *jui- 
dy us cat does a wet floor. — Dow Jr. 



?~\ "©> <S> 

f f J. 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have Opened an 
office for the sale of Anti Slavery Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c.'at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 
be well patronized. 

Temperance Houses. 

ALBERT G0RNEE, Patorsot. 
Please forward the names, and thhs fovor a temper- 
ance community. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
bf read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boouton, N. J. 

, , ■ •; 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS Wot sale at the Ofceof 

; the Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



TEM PE RAN OE IN P A.TE RSON — We rejoice 
to find the friends of Temperance in Patersou g 'ing for-! 
ward in this great work, with a determination not to 
give way until the rum sellers give np. They hav« 
been for some weeks holding meetings ever) night, on ] 
an island below the Falls. Thousands attend their 



Michigan. A State Liberty Convention has been 
held in this State, Sixteen Counties were well repre- 
sented, aud TAMES G BIRNEY was nominated for 
Governor. The Cause of Freedom is rapidly onward 
;n Michigan. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A fe» copies of Clark's Libarty Minstrel are for 
<ti * at 'hi- office. 

This is sup- rior to any thing of the kind we have 



meetings every night — we 6aw Mr.Perry. about h i « , '*n aud sh"iid be in tho nossesdion of every one 'hat 



week since the Presideu/ of the Washington society 
there, and then about 1,000 hud signed the pledge b< 
sides about 400 pledges that had been procured by th* 
catholic clergyman. Great praise is due to the Pate ram 
Washingtonians, — Their meetings still continue. 



Remember Heaven has an avenging rod — 

To :<mitc the ponr is treason against God. — Cowper. 



Jonathan Wai.kkr. — This persecuted man is at 
length released from unjust confinement in Florida, 
and is at home with his friends. — Hecalis the letters S. 
S. which the authorities of Florida under the U.S- 
goverment, branded in his hand, the; U. S. coat of arms. 

We hope he will travel through the Free Stales and 
shew that hand, and tell to the people the tale of 
wrongs hi, has endured- 



•ves ;'ood nusie, and loves tu make a good use of it. 
Price, 44 Cents. 



Boonton Washington Temperance Benev- 
olent Society, — meets every Monday eve 
uing in the Free Church. John Vlaxfield, 
President, Fredrick Stone, Secretary . 

Boonton Liberty Association, — meets the 
first Friday evening of every month. 
M. Evarts, President, C. B. Morris, See. 



THE NE »V J 





VOL. 



BOOOJVTOT, SEPTEMBER p, 1 r> 



jyo. 4 » 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BT 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, IVeiv Jersey. 

TERM S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers. 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Emancipator. 
ADT ANTING SENTIMENTS OF THE AGE. 



gardisrn, it has nevertheless mad- the once strong sj Y 
of the North bow with mean ohse/piiousness before i 
and our senators and representative s cover at its in 
potent threats, ti!! a few brave spirits, brand- d as fans 
ics, and sornr of them at the last made such by th -l 
trials, arose and r call' d us to our ancient honor. 

It has destroyed our national- self-respect, made u- 
bush for our pretensions to liberty, and rendered us a 
" hissing anb a by-word " among the nations. We de- 
! iberntely say thbre is no parallel to it among *he civili- 
zed or semi-eiviliz"d communities of the earth. If it 

were to be ascertained tkat the government of China : King has ever been said in these papers that venie -Q 



ut they were drowned by repeated and ovev, helming 
, clause. It was a very successful experianeiit. I see 
iso tha; some of the young men at Jacksonville. I1L at 
.;:eir Commencement, so handled the 'peculiar •instiru- 
on' as to excite the wrath oi pro-slaverj men i&^thax ; 
ate. 

Freedom op the pres3. Each ef the grest Beuevt?- 
*nt societies has its oigan of cenmuuicntiou v itb its 
atrons. Usually this organ is a monthly jartptlet in 
■vhich the progress of the cause is u^ade k^own 'letters 
'.om agents and missionaries published, fccaroe any 



held, from spleen or interest, one of its great provinces 
with a population "f three millions, in precise! v tpp con- 
|We never doubted that, in the end, the simple truth jdition of our slaves, violating their domestic relations. 
LrtAe slants of the dated Sides ttrrjncn undo r brelh- j disposing of them as chattels, depriving them of the 

L would be received ::o fully. u.s to procure a genera/ ! gains of their toil, prohibiting all intetfectua/ develop- j slavery soeiety, the Missionary Herald, the official or 
sest to the fret and obvious contfasion, 1" wil that ri( t-nd. rn fin-, converting theia and their children, j ga n of the society said not a word about it, and uothir,; 

b 



a' a l likely to displease the slave-holders, wh'fle *e 
missionaries at the Sandwich Islands ielt a deep interest 
n slavery, held meetings on the subject, drew* up au 
Appeal to the American churches, and formed an am;- 



gr oasc involves the same rights and duties, both in j inexorable processes, into a hopeless exception to 
rmselves and in others fts would attach {<> other men | th " law« of development and pr gress which God 
i sin.i-ar circumstances. i has stamped on ihe dfstujies of the human race — the 

The inception of this inference is what is com.mon'y ! ''' s ovri T ° 1 '' ™eh an anosuah- would astound th<- world, 
llfed "ultra abolition." There arc few own of the n- j Any oii; ' rt wry quarter to break it up wou'd be 

olitionists themselves, who have comprehended the \ mnsidnred right— the sentiments of mankind would 
{scope of the tinth. Inpropurtion r.s they have nc- joonipol their governments to interfere with it in th*-ir 
auBceirod it, their feelings been enkindled, their ef- j negotiations— Ih^oiogiar.s would point to it ais proof of 
rts«al!ed forth. Ibo neeessitv of divine revelation — Christians v ouldat- 

dBie actual recoi'tion of the.tru,di that the slave is a l t " m V t to invade it with mfesioarws and Bibles— the 
vkand my brother, is a change of characU r on this sub.- i f, ' iend;5 liberty w ould furnish it with arms as they did 
Karinga resemblance to the change «.f religious yreew and Poland, for a revolution— to help men to es- 
Ufcctcr jtrod.'.-ctd by the actual recepttion of the '. ra P° 1 " rfim ;t would be cons'dered a holy service, and 
B that ./<*/<.< Christ is the Son of God & i/iy Saviour. !,{ "' s ' !0,lt of insurreeiiou coming fiom it would be re- 
Some portion of the Christian comninnity have fcU | spohiJed to by the voice oftlv civi isBejd world. Amer- 



jhatly scandalized, lately, by the utterance -of the doc- 
P£ in ti:e general association of Connecticut, that it is 



hi to 



behalf of American slavers, whatevi 



cJld be right to do for Americans w ho should h 
rid and < ! • ; 1 < < hi Barbary. 
Ifc rejoice ti at the time has arrived, when the 



isan Christians, look not to China for it--tb.ere is nene 
such there; it is under the banners and amidst the tem- 
ples of your own land ! 

Let it not be said, that it is a matter of necessity ; God 



would ever have been gathered from its pages to show 
that a single misionary detested American slavery. 

A similar course of conduct, has been pursued, by 
most of the other Benevolent Societies, for a succession 
of years. But after all this, it is cheering to see some 
indication t>f,awilltngn< ssin one at least ot'fhcs* societies 
to make known the opinions of its missionaries in oppo- 
siiisn to slavery. I note it as indicating tha. the shackles 
ara beginning to faU from the press. In the Fcrr.e 
Missionaiv for August we have the following in a com- 
munication from Rev. L. Foote, Si. Charles, 111. " tH* 
Anti-Slavery Soc. has been formed, in vhich most of ike 
members of our church Jecl a deep interest. " Also Rev. 
E- Colton, of Michigan City Indiana, writes « Good 
morals have been promoted, especially on the saGftct of 
temperance ; more interest is Jelt in behaif of the slate, 
and objects of benevolence gem ally occupy a larger plat e 
in the heart. " 

These societies, must begin to speak, and act t3C, 



ci- allowed such a«ire necessity to enter this world. | against the giant siu of our nation; or they will socn 



loose the confidence of a christian community. They 
have been pro-slavery, and silent as long as it is safe ior 
them. Even the political party papers will row very 



sup- ' '^ a . v r '°t that th re are mam Christians th»re, who r*- 
irt of such principle* does not rest upon the heads of liL ' v0 these abuses ; the- are but exertion* to the g 
§)T zealous pioneers, the foice of whose testimony j whole, and scarcely appreciable amidst the evil. Say 

iffbe weakened by branding them as fanatics. Men ! not things ; it is but the "sma 1 Mk " about the e- generally publish the proceedings of anti-slavery meet- 
itosiiion, publications speatking the voice of largi ! vil and good men have long since grown weary of it j Agitation at the south. _ Scarce a T\eek pass s 
jm of p»>opie, are now read\ not only to utter -he < It knows no mitigations, withes no lim Cations, bat is jbut we receive some evidence thet the slave pov ei iS 
^timent that ihv slave i/u man and my bro'/cer, but to stretching out its grasp at this*moment at all Centra 1 1 wounded in its very vitals. Like a wounded serpent it 

writhes and hisses, and exhibits its malignity by striking 
its fangs into its own body. The Virginians have inva- 
ded Ohio, and seized three of the citizens of that state 
and imprisoned them ; and the Georgians have impris- 
oned a schoolmaster from Massachusetts : all of thena 



Aw the contusion, that it would he right to do for him : America. 
hlcvir it Mould Ac rh;ht to do for others in like ^„ 

r of tise times. 

tiastances. j „ 

K 'cannot e^ss the emotions with which we | C°*v.zxtxox*. One of the most cheering indications 
lliust read an* elaborate editorial article in "Zion's i oI tue l )r0 S ress ol the Anti-Slavery cause is the grea 
of this date. This is the papor of the Meth- Liberty conventions which are being held in different 
wlEpiscoprd Church in New Etfigaud. It is c 



charged with favou ing the escape of slaves. A conven- 
iens of the country. One was held recently at Cincin- ( *ion,was recently held ar Port Tobasco, Md. to devise 
IkB v.-ith distinguished ability, by the Rev. Abel i liail ' ^* at v> ddch there were 3000 delegates present, means to secure their slave property. About the tame 
(■pens, who has never taken a verv active part i u j another at Port Byron \n£$. Y. audit is proposed to j time a band of nearly one hundred slaves marched off 
■ working of antislavery societies. The subject ot : ' !0 '^ an otlier in. Boston, f.ome time during : he latter part j in a body ; a part of whom succeded in reaching Canada. 
4artfele relates to the present position of that church' ! this month. The delegates to these conventions do ■ Northern men, are becoming more bold and determined 
■Wbe misguided efforts of some to cover over th ! some thing more than meet together and have a round . n helping their oppress" d brethren <>u' of bondage. The 
"fry and anti-slavery aspects of the 'ate separation.! 01 " hollow-hearteH declamation. They prepare aat 'act that Torrey, Fairbanks, Burr and Thompson, and 



fcthe course; of it, he takes occasion to give som 
views respecting the nature of American slavery, 
relations and duties growing out of it. We 
attention of those who informed the Rev. Mr. 
Jhat the principles of the Emancipator are viewed 
horrence by the pastors of New England, to rhe 
Wig brief extract from the article before us: 



AMERICAS SLAVERY 

[incarcerated some of our noblest young men and 
■ for doing what the Levitical law dmanded to- 
pthe escaping captive, and what, if d..rj C on the 
Barbary, wou'd commended by all good men as 
rcfcallv virtuous. It has corrup 
-roiBus principles, and is wrecking the great religiout 
w«8 of the laud. Strong oni) in iniquity and brag- 



ublish able addresses w hich are calculated to enlist the j others, languish in prisons does not seem to dishearten 
energies of all who love justice and liberty. In addidoi jotVrs in the least : it rather causes a noble spirit of 
to this, the conventions are addressed by the most pow 
ei ful speakers in the land : spirited resolutions are pass- 



ed, the strength of the party demonstrated , and th 
delegates go home to infuse a spirit of ren< wed act'vi \ 
among people in the sctions whete th^y reside. 

Freedom or speech. It is becoming not only allow 
able but quite popular at public exhibitions and on 
anniversary occasions to speak out agains' slavery. Ai 



mutation. The slaves are escaping in considerable 
numbers; the slave-holders are alarmed and enraged. 
Agitation is increasing from Maryland to Louisiana, -yea 
i en to Texas, and mere is no h°lp for it, in the present 
| state of things. It must go on, and increase, until 
avery ceases. God speed th" day. H. B. 



Ex-Gov steward deci .red, in his letter 

the late Commencem. n at Union College, Schenectada. I lo'the Cinciaati convention, that "the ab<. - 
one of the graduating class delivered agood anti-slavery j l 1(lon 0 f s j av erv is an object whose impor- 
; uoyaugooamenas fa I wa s informed that it was permitted as a sort L„ _ ■ n „ " tt .\ f , 1 " 

ted the church to its 1 ce i t .u L1 - • j w , . t , , tance is parmount to that ot every other 

lcu me cnurcn to its of feeler to th.- public mind. The subject of slavery , - , 3 

Texas annexation, &c. were hand! d ' in a bold an ^ wnicli engages or can engage the consider- 
faithful manner. There were some few hisses heard,! aticLCllLt ^n.tritai. j to^ie.'' ^n.fcll. 



: * 



CORRESPONDENCE. 
For The Freeman. 



' #i - 7o5 ad a vert Rearing meeting of tie Stat e Aoti 
■ ' rv shifty cn Thursday afternoon and cyeniag. 
, -ll mteresting speakers, and one admirable Liberty. 
- •ere present. After the report of the busmen 
• - nee, most oftpe afternoon was occupied by Rev. 
' = ' We Bourne of New York in speaking npon the sub- 
- It of th retrograde action of the Presbyterian church. 
/- Bonrne, was formerly settled over a Presbytery 
; htficE in Virginia, for seven years. He was then and 
has been ever since ; a most zealous advocate for the 
oppressed, . 1 should be glad to give you a good sketch 
f the speech with which he entertaiend, and instructed 
rV audience : but l ean only give some tilings, which 
he said in the course of it. He commenced by obser- 
ving that he was almost at a loss in endeavouring to 
, re 4w the events of thirty-five years ; but flu-tog * 



cher, who would tie Qp his staves-, both- boy* and gills, 
by their thumbs, to a rafler in the garret, so that they 
could oaly r«t on th.ir toe*, and whip them us long as 
ae pleased; then go to church, aud preach, leaving 
*«m tied up till he came home and then whip them 

again. . 

The meeting in the evening was also very interesting. 
Several liberty songs, were sung with great effect by 
Mr Ludlow Patton, sob of Rev. Dr. Patlon, of N. Y. 
The spirited song called " Get off the Track " appeared 
^ -» a^-rUett were made 



is to be du..:>.. • ©• «-•-.• , . , , 

Christ. This minister contended, that such was faut? 
meaning, and that he was. the slave of Jesus Chr^t 
Another slavf -holder on hoard the vessel, was so disgus- 
ted, that he declared he would not sj* ok lb that minister 
again during the pass*ge. H- B- 



THE FOLLOWING RESOLUTIONS WERE 
ADOPTED AT THE MEETING OE THE NEW 
JERSEY ANT1 SLAVERY SOCIETY ON THE 



Ecclesiastical Action. 



The spirited tjoag caiieu v»ot u« t«^ » v -~- . rf . l;r , naT 
to amuse the alienee highly. Speech* were made 28 ALGLST. 
ey Rev Wm. Pattoa of Boston, Rev. Amos A. Phelps,! 

and Lewie Tappen Esq, of New York- jj^r That siaveholding is directly opposed to 

offered the resolution declarmg it the duty ol .Northern . ^ Ch ^i, and ou<rht never to be tolerated or 

church*., to wthdraw fellowship, from all who are guilty J J ^ ^ ^ any church . 

of claiming property in their fellow men. rte sustaineo . R ^ • SUveholding hao n0 san cflon or ol- 

U in » forcible «d eloquent speech I ^> ^ance in the precept^ or the practice of the Apostol- 
been glad if .-very pro-slavery preacher m the land could, ( _^ _ . 
v lta*e hewd.gm, ts todwH^upoa ^ .^ttewwe mean- , ^ That flfc »e'«lW^*^.1* ttfr-taifc* 

ni^ht be.ihterestin g to those presentto hear ^oine ^ If^^g. He remarked, if I 1 allowably , . ^^^^ £ c A v ' car , 5n the action of 
whih hedfallen under his observatton ; tQ Ufie tha term noble, in connexion w.th things so *ea» , ^ Uhm J P ^ > ; ^ advauco 

deavonr > do so. « Thirty-six years ago" . he, wicW; he would say, it was a comparatively noble |\£ ' 6ml scnlin cot in the churches 

■J' I removed to Virginia. , h"#£**^£%* thing to go and seize a full grown man, on the co&d "J^K ^ ^ in{he FrccSltttcs 
that I was not in my element. The next monnng^ after S ^ ^ ^ chancc to defend himself, , ^ action of the lato 

^ started from Richmond, I had my first vie* of sla ^ & glav ^ what U is , t0 await the b.nh Res oh c c , Thjt ^ «^Q| 

wry. At the Tavern, where we stopped both mysel | her{? and then CDC e upon ^^^^3^ bas equal o^dencc 

my wife were particularly struck fjfc HtaJ . nd enslave it, in its utter helplessness. Yet the law j Umid , ont no c ^ this action be- 

mm '-t-een the mulatto slave ^^f^ ot ' the ,and, makes the first cose piracy, PO^MP^* , ; ***** Jj^any cTses, in which .be defenders and 
.ndthe white girls in the parlour. ^ ™ 0Bt ^ n ^ L^ging ; whiie the other, is not even regardclas a ba, £g g J Ul01 ,,er to maintain their position^ 

^axds, I had the second picture JJj^^cSw? to christian fellowship, except in a very few churches. 1 t0 lako gronnd and maintain doctrine* 

. me at a meeting of the 1 raster, ^crfem^ c()urgc of his remarUs , he reared to the con- ; ^ ^ ^ ^ couW evef ^hmce them 

One of th.-se Trustees, a Presbyterian Eldei, told aboul ! Rey . Dr Hamillon , .formerly of Newark; and,^ mannes . o; ^ ^ ^ ^ tW J 

a slave whom he had severely whipped ; and he was ^ wh o had said that he would as soo. 



ible to whip with severity, being a very stout man, 
: knd at the conclusion of the account, he turned to me 
, ft nd 9aid in my ear < Will you buy a nigger feller . -1 
t Wringing there yet. » Mr. B, remarked that he had 

^.slaves m*^£ ^ " iman to preach in his ^ 

after they had been whipped. He spoke oi f _^ r ^ ^ ^ 

.Id slave, ealled'Uncle Jack'who wasa Bapust preach- 
' er, and Vhose back was remirkab 4 ! yscrrred with the 

' ' % Bourne, preached plainly, aud faithfully, against 
the abominable oppressions around him. Before long 
however, he found his brother ministers of the 
Presbytery, coming down upon him for it. lhis set 
bim about preparing for his defence. But in doing , 
he was aware that it would be of no use to quote the 
testimony of the Bible. " J had had enough experi- 
ence " said he, " to know that the Bibkis of no authority 
. rn Ecclesiastical Bodies. 1 might be encased in all the 



duct of Rev. Dr. Hamilton,. formerly ot J NewaiL, ana, conscious of the desperatewssft of the: 

now of Mobile, who had said that he would as soon buy , «J ^ , 

a slave, as a leg mutton. Dr. Hamdton had . said this ; ^ ^ itl vicw 0 f jt he great criminality of 

to Rev. Albert Barnes, of Philadelphia .; and Mr. B, ^ , ^_ h M^, it is incumbent on the. cbnreh^ of the 
mentioned it, in his hearing, at. his father s table in , t0 withdraw fellowship from all who are gu lly 

New York -. adding, that he would not permit such . a . ? ^ propcrty in (heir fellow man. 

"is pulptt. ... ., : C. M. Clav. ; 

Rev. Amos A. Phelps, followed Mr. Patton. He; Ro .; 0 l vod , That those rc.^cr«6/c ctHtetis of Lexin* 
argued, that the Scriptures no wh-re give th\ir ^ction . ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ halids upon , Cassias M. Clay't 
to slavery. 1 presume his audience were tally sut.sh. J ^ aro j,, lihy 0 f B crhne of the btackesl a. 

that he Sustained his position. .. , f , 1 (r0 citv— that the deliberateness which eharai t-rizei 

Lewis Tappan Esq. made an ironical *£ cch ' ™f > 1 their procccdi a? s, iwtead; of mitigating,. iVH»rfully oug 
which the audience were highly amused. He said hat ( ^ ^ 9inr(% jt rfoVe& ^ oft to be, not th. 

he should occupy .the little time that remained, m aelen- ; ^ . rf ^ ^ of ^ tempomily ovennliug tl 
ding the southern clergjmen, against the attacks of L ho rf con9c fcfoe and reason, but of a most « 
these t ,o northern ministers, *h«> had beefl ^e^puTing ^^j, e0|wldered ejection of all author* 

them during the whole evening. Mr. PneTps tad been ; V ^ ^ , f ^ 
quoting Scripture; but the southern minister conk 



rolillcal Action. 
Resolved, That the Constitutional power of the Fee 



» h,m, to e«m.M the Cod&»». rf ^ ^ BWc for somc; lin „, M J , ra J, *^ 0 i ' . „ ,„ rrc „ M . ,hc chancer ot 1 

which H. old Doccr, with »- cprflljon, «M | B~> "J. J 1 ^™"^. rf Anltrkan 
.. thai he had quoted the wnag (MV I »• "* t B ^ ) . T |„,, , h ..» W „| bM il ooe of oor cooat I 

■ T^tloae a,.o» S the ""-^^E^^*^ ^« '« ~ »» *T " * 

the perpetrators of it to capital punishment ; Exod. 21 | Mr. Tappan lemarkea tmy «i ^ ^ _ w nf phiflrv t(} that pD<1 . 



to him, to exauiiue w«»»>"~ 

found, under Question 142, of the Larger Catech.sm,.n 
relation to the sins forbidden by the Eighth Command- 
ment, the following statement. 

" 1 Tim. 1 : 10, (The law is made) « for whoremon- 
*era for them that defile themselves with mankind, for 



the perpetrators of it to capital punisnmenw , »«~- - _| — • . J , #lftv cs a leg 0 f 

: 16 and the Apostle here classes them with sinners of saying that ^ t ^ ^ jshrd 9laten5cn t, of 

the first rank. The word he uses, in its onginaUmport, mutton.^ u ]k ^ fl , soon bniJ a shre 

as a horse. " 



oomprchends all who are concerned in bringing any of 
the human race into slavery, or in detaining them m it 
tiominum fares, qui servos re/ liberos ubducunt re.Unent, 
re.ndunt, tel emunt. Stealers of men are all those, who 
brin- off slaves or freemen, and keep, sell or buy thenu 
To steal a freeman, says Grotius, is the highest kind of 
theft. In other instances wc only steal human property , 
but when we steal or retain men in slavery, we seize 
those, who in common with ourselves, are constituted, 
by the original grant, lords of the earth. Gen. 1 : 26. 
Vid. Confession of Faith, Catechisms &c. Ed. Wilming- 
ton : i8or 



'.*£. ootther. ^iniatera," Said Mr. T, " o„ g ht to I » « I - ^ 

a i_ :. L il,,,.r cAnfni>ni * 



chifley to that end. 

EASTERN CONVENTION 
Resolved, That this society higb/y approve the pr 
posal for a great^Liberty Convention, to be h< lAt Rc 



•* 1 ncse nonuciu iun.'cvv.. u , , - , 

consider the inconveniences, to which the.r southern 
brethren would be subjected if they did not buy orfh.re 
slaves They would have to do their own house-work. 
They would have to cook and wash. And how would 
a Doctor of Divinity look, overja wash tub, washmg all 
sorts of things ? It might do well enough for Mr. Phelps, 
or Mr. Patton, who were not D. D. s, but it would nev- 
er do, to put doctors of divinity at such work. 

Said Mr. T, our southern ministers contend that slav- 



Said ;vir. ljum oyuunn' — 

T h !s 8 °»'coo,.„„dcd,hc m , .ha, tho-had 0 .thi„ g t„L, ia.anc.ioncd ,,y ^^^^i 



- ; 0 lvcd that this was no part of the Confession ot 
Faith, and that it should be left out of the future edit- 
ion*. The erasure was accordingly made ; and it has 
no beenifound an any. edition, published, since 
" B for : M sat down , Mr. Bourn, told us ot a prea- 



'clouios- iniiisint' " »«>»■•] - - . . 

He recollected meeting a minister on ship-board when 
crossing the Atlantic, who contended that such was the 
correct interpretation. . ■ It was replied to lv,m that th, 
.Vposth Paul says he was the » S erv^.(d|ul<pj^ 
Jesus Christ ; " and if 'doulos' means slave, then I aul 



FREQUENT MEETINGS 
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be r-qu* 
ed to take measures for holding general meetings 
least, once a month at such places as may be 
for the purpose in different parts ofthe state. 

Resolved That we recommend to County Soeieti 
»o cam into effective operation a system of ne.ghb* 
hood meetings' and that they procure places % appj 
ments for meetings and Speakers & Singers to atU 

them. ^ . . _ 

ORGANIZATIONS 

Resolved, Thar we recommend to the friend! 

form organizations in their sev ral count.es and ncf 

borh ods where none exist. 



lit who upholds oppression sban s th; jj™^ 



t 



m A *k- 



F ]VEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

Eoointov September 8th. 1845 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot bo alive to 
the commands' or GSS : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanit withers. Keep. 



tf&The article in ©ur last, entitled, "Something that 
should b. looked into," and signed, "Arisen " should 
have been credited to the Richmond Whig. It was in 
Richmond that a "citizen " was so much alarmed at th,> 
cKistauce of a sabbath school among colored children. 



and John B. Clay son of Henry Clay & living in bis 
house was secretary of the mob committee of sixty that 
sacked the office of the TiucAmericrii ar.C published 
the pr-cedings of that committee with his signature af- 
fixed. Henry Cfay himself while the mischief is brewing 
thinkshis health calls for a visit to the springs, and among 
the whig friends of C M. Clay in Kentucky not one is 
found to stand up for him. Slaveholders are all alikr 
none of them are to be trusted. In reference to this mat- 
I or we feel the full force of the old saying "Whom the 
Gods Wtsh to destroy the. first deprive of reason," 
• They are every day eqgag.-d in some deb-stable acts, 
which show the desperate meanness of their cause and 
which will yet arouse the righteous indignation of al' 
<rood men, 

It is truo they have liberated Jonathan Walker with 

. ... »_ '.. .., « . . •. 1 IJl... 



MEETINGS m 

Rev. George ^BoiuriP, of Ketv York, 
(formerly of Virginia,) will Lecture on tha 
subject of slavery in the-£rev Church ir» 
Boonton, on -Saturday •• evening <Sfept. 13; 
preach on Sunday Jtntf~ ; Ledtu;e again on 
Monday cvchiiTg 15;. ' ; ; • 

A Goon Anecdote.— As the good Deacon A', on o 
cold morning in January was riding fi'y the, house of 
F., the latter was chopping Wood and threshing his 



One or two of our subscribers have complained tha 
the Freeman is not printed as plain as it should be. A 
few words w>e believe will explain all thisj es well as 
some other things,,connected with the paper. 

Until this paper was commenced, the abolitionists of 
..New Jersey had no paper in the state through which 
they could communicate with each other, get meetings 
made knowh',|and many other things that were indispen- 
f,ibie in the progress of the cause. The pro-slavery pa- 
pers-were constantly teWing the people tAa» slavery was 
a subject we had no right to meddle with, while their 
columns tecDled with misrepresentation and calumnies 
respecting our views and Baeasun s, no opportunity was 
jgivep the aggrieved ones of explanation or defence. 
When ah editor was asked to publish a notice of a meet- 
ins;, he would do so and then make some i vidently in 
t. ntional blunder in the day, hour, or place of meeting 
that'would confuse the friends of the slave and hinder 
their attendance, b'omc would promise to print, re 
ceive their pay for it, and then when too laletfor us to 
help ourselves, would refuse to do it, and hand back 
our money, Sq much have the abolitionists of this part 
of the state been imposed upon in this way that the ed- 
itor of the Freeman for one resolved, that he would no 
" Wre ask snch men to print . onti slavery matter. Ud- 

• tfer this «tate of filings .he commenced the Freeman; 
not with a view of furnishing the people of New Jersey 
with all the onti-siavery information they should have, 
hut to opeu a channel thyoUgh which the friends of the 
slave c . aid bs informed, of the time and place of meet- 
ings, as J soch other things os could be accomplished 
through its columns. Ho is not a printer, knows very 
litfte about the business, and the roce pts for the paper 
will no! ouablo bira to .bin the Work <:cneit'has 
.0 U done in bis ©w*. family, its the inidst of othr 

" rr duties cuoo?h to occupy the mind of any one man. 
Besides this tho Freeman Vws to be printed on a press 
oi domestic construction necessarily very imperfect. 
Alter this brief t^ptonation we trust onr friends will 

• be charitably disposed, and bear it hi mind at the same 
toe that it is with difficulty that we can. get a moment 
of time to devote to the editorial department. 

Now cannot each of our subscribers get at least one 
m«rr, and, send; us "n tho money free ' o 
This will enablo us to hire some of the w °rk 



It is true they have liberated Jonathan - - » j d ^ ****** 

his branded hond,& Alanson Work; but it shouldbekept J » 



.n view that Bnrr, Thompson, Fairbanks Torrey Lane 
and many other are lying in their prisons still, three in 
Virginia dragged with voiolence from Ohio, and bow 
they have undertaken to hide their meanness by destroy * 
ipg liberty of the press Eet them continue this busin - 
ess and the righteous indignation of ali good men in tb»- 
and every other Country will be upon them, and the end. 
of slavery be speedily brought about. 

It "is the opinion of many that that the sickness of 
C. M. Clay was seized upon by the mob as a fa« ottra 
ble time to accomplish what they did not dare u d r ak< 
while he was in health. This moi. differs from mo., 
other mobs. They are generally set in motion by wire 
workers who accomplish their wicked design and keep 
out of s ighU 

In this case the leading influence of both tho great 
political parties of the State openl- took the lead, made 
speeches read resolutions and addr< sses, said and did ev- 
erything that was nessary to k- • p th< thing in motion till 
their nefarious designs were accomp ished. Wr hold 
them responsible for the tarring and feathering of inoffen- 
sive citizens which followed. 

There js another most humiliating reflection produced 
by this outrage, and that is theNorrh-n Press, with 
few exceptions as usual in such cases do not come out 
and condom then-proceedings in an unequivocal man 

It is true they have generely declared mobbing t- b 
wrong, that lawless outrage had been committed, an- 
various ways found fault with Marshal, Metca f- 
their law'ess herd; but they have in the same coin; 
insinuated that "it was just wha* might be exp*c: 
"C M. day 'was imprudent,'' "he had no business 
print abolition paper there" "abolitionistts aie to blame, 
and num. rous other declarations and insinuations, th* 
tendency of which is to make the mobocrats think the\ 
have done a smart thing, and that they ha>e the sym 
pathies of the great mass of the people of the country, 
North as well as South. If a m- < ting is got up in th 
free States for the purpos- of expressb g a just indigna- 
tion at the outrage, it is to be done by the abolition- 
ists while the great mass of others are as still, as if noth- 
ing had happ ned, excopt to ridicule these meetings. 

WhatC. M, Clay will do we do not know, but we 
believe that if he sun s his sickess under the exciting 



ed, the severity of the weather - : briefly discussed, and 
the horseman made demonstration'of passing on, when 
his neighbour detained him with "Don't" be. in a hurry, 
Deacon; wouldn't you like a glass Of'ggpd old Jamaica 
this morning?" "Thank you kindly," said the old 
gentleman, at the same time begiriing to' dismount with 
a'l deliberation of aDeacon; H don't' care if I do." 

"•Ah, don't" trouble yourself to get off, Deacon," said 
trie wag, "1 merely ask jot; for information; we haven H a 
drop of mm In the heuse. 



From the Cincim.ati Herald. '' 

LIBERTY VOTE IN INDIANA. 

{j^>Wc have been waiting some time for the news- 
papers in Indiana to give us information concerning the 
Liberty vote. But, the', are: silent. We: '6ope that; 
the Liberty men. in Indiana willrgiVe us- immediate in- 
telligence. Let some one who knows, in every county, 
transmit to us, the accurate returns. "They .can easily 
be obtained. A few items have reached us . from dif-. 
ferent quarters. 1 ' '. , 

In Marion the Liberty candidate for Congress recei- 
,ed 51 votes. Last November, {hrpey received 25. 

Wayne gives 403 for A- W! Lewis, '(Liberty,) tho 
highest on his ticket. • 

In Tippecanoe, Doming received 75; ''last November, 
'he vote for Birney was 37. 1 ' . - 

Elkhwfie. — Pemipg, 31 ? .. . Last November, for Bir- 
jj« y, one. .. .. 

In Randolph, Dan'i 1 Worth's vote stands, 171, 35 
s than the Liberty vote last fall. 
Johnston. — Senatorial vote, 54; average' vote 33. 
:.itst fall, 15. - . ••' !' 



postage 

done , our paper will be. better printed, better edited & j iu fl uel3ce avoun d him and cannot poceed with his pap 
double the number of people will receive a little Anti- | ^ Kenluc ky ; t ; 9 his duty to follow his press where the 
Slav.-.ry News. The Freeman shall live until New • mob ha§ gent it and from that p | aCP j Pt tho Slaveholders 



Jersey can afford a better. 



hear his thunder aginst slavtrj louder than evr, and we 
! belii ve he will do s o 



Our readers are apprised no doubt before this time < 
the ra vements in Kentucky among the slaveholders i 
reference to C. M. Clay's True American. 

The sam ■ chivalric citizens of Lexington that coui. i 
imprison and fine vliss Webster, have taken advantage oi 
Mr Clay's sickness, pecked up his Press type &c. 
and sent them on to Cincinnati where they have arrived 
in very bad condition. 

The Whigs have been endeavoring to show that it 
is all a vv *k of the Loco Focos, but the accounts show 
that both the old parties have participated in that detest- 
able business with about equal guilt. 

A whig presided at the great rnob meeting the Loco 
T F ftfarshel read a engthy address to the citizens, 

1 1 V. h ig t x Govtmc 1 Met£a<t made a leqgthy tfxxdm 



CO UNTY CONVETIONS. It is time the friends 
of liberty began to think about conventions forming 
Tickets ior the Nov. Election. W- shall issue the next 
paper the 1st. of Oct., and will be glad to insert notices 
for such conventions in any counties in th- State. 

Let this matter not b d layed; there should^ b a 
Convention in every County m the State and a Ticket 
formed . 

Just God ' behold a negro's woe, 
Th> whit man's sin forgive ; 
Open his heart thy love to know, 
To bid hk> broth r live. 



'Decency' The New Y or If Express, a 
leading Whig paper, of July 17th; contains 
the following in relation to Mr Birney and 
the Liberty party Q f course/Liberty men 
respect themselves too much to reply tn 
such language: — Bangor GazettQ. 

'If Birney and his accursed clans were 
huno; on the topmost crags of the Cordilleras, 
or hu led alive into the burning craters of 
Potocatepetl they would be but receiving 
the fare their foul treason to humanity de- 
serves.' {. 

At the time of the admission of Florida 
as a Slave State, there wt re 27, Whigs in 
the U. S. Senate — a majoiity of the whole 
body. Yet this new Slave State was ad- 
mited, only vine Senators voting against 
it ! So much for zeal'of the "true Liberty 
Party" in resisting the ^lave Power Mr, 
Woodbridge, to his credit, voted nay But 
what about -Senator PcDer, whom his 
Whig friend* would so much rejoice to have 
as a candidate for (iover or Did tier 
Porter vote yeal Will tin Advertise 
form us?-- 8ig of ■'Liberty 

Touch no dramjit is liquid ire. John Wu-ky. 



X 



POETRY. 



From t/ t ^ C'ncinnali Marvin Herald. 
THE LIKE H TV .llt.fl I\ 

Our brother, lo! w come,! 
But not with sounding drum 

come to thee, 
No bloody flag we bear; 
No implements of w-ir, 
Nor carnage red shall mar 
Our Victory. 

Our flag is spotless white, 

Our watchword, Freedom's Right. 

To all be given." 
Our emblem is the Dove;' 
Our weapons, Truth and Love; 
Our Cap'.ain, God abovii 
•Who rules in heaven. 

Behold! Salvation's King, 
, On the dark tempest's wing 

In haste come down! 
Oppression's cheek is pale, 
And despots blanch and quail ;— 
The parting clouds reveal 

Jehorah's frown! 

Exult, ye valleys, now! 

Ye Melting mountains, flow 

To meet your King! 
L'-t Slavery's kneli be rung! — 
Oppression's dirge be sung/ — 
And" every bondman's tongue 
Of freedom sing ! 
troy, 0., July, 1845. 



Pr posals an made by Wm D Parish of No 4 
North 5th Street Philadelphia -o publish the Life of 
Benjamin Lundy This is as it should be, the services 
rendered to the cause of universa liberty b Mr Lundy 
should never be forgotten. Let subscriptions be sent m 
speedily in order to insure its publica'ion without delay. 
We believe the price is 75 cents 



THE REFORMER, This is the title of a New 
; Weekly paper the specimen number of which has just 
j been issued by H^nry Peterson, at 187 Market Street 
j Bhiladolphia, devoted to liberty and other reforms. It 
i is an excellent paper and should be well patronized. It 

'■i a good size and well executed. The price is Two 

Dollars a year. 



sV^Birney has been nominated by his 
"""^ fiilowtTs in Michigan as their; 



candidate for Governnor. Alter his impor-j 
| lant service in aid of the • It and Texas 
' coiispiricy, can the 1 „oeo F »»•< »S he so cruel j 
j as to refuse him their support ? — [ Tribune. | Cla . 

Answer. — ''We do not scruple to char- 
acterize such insinu -tions as unworthy of 
i»>f any m*n of right princi dev and honor- 
able bearing." — ['\ M. Clay. 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The following 
tracts are on hand and for salt- a: this office, by the Lib- 
erty Association. 

Condition of "Living. 
The cause of Hard times. 
Influence of Slave power 
One more appeal to Christians fe Churches. 
Bible Politics. 
Jewish Servitude. 
Smith & Clarkson. 
Persons he/d to service. 
Loyal National Repeal Association. 
Duties and Dignities of American Freemen. 
Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. S. 
Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 
The lawlessness of slavery. 
Poems on S/avcry by Loagfellow. 
The Missouri Compromise. 
" Smiths Constitutional Argument. 
Twa cents Postage 

Addrcrs to the. People of Kentucky by C. M. 



L«vi. 



» A. fugitive alave, in <<n address at Port 
L»yron. .V V., the other day, said that a 
minister who "could spend the twelv months 
wi liou. opening his mouth for the slave, 
.oust be ctllege-made, money-called, and 
devil- sent." 



The American and Foreign Anti slavery Society 
ka* made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
the comming year. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged , an 
gent and Editor of the Anti Slavery Reporter. Th> 
Reporter is an excellent paper puhibhod monthly at 
118 Nassau street N. Y at $ 6,30 a rear for a sin r i 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ -,<)') 10 copies j» 
3,50. and 50 copras for $ 1D.50. puhcriptions Will lie 
received at this office. 



Stray Minister! — $400 Reward. 

The N. Y. Tribune coutains the following: 
A late Kentucky paper contains an advertisement, 
offering a reward of $400 for the recovery of a "negro 
jaan named Richard," who is 40 years old, reads and 
-.nv.es ver wll, is a preacher and has a license to ex- 
ivi, endorsed b the Elder of Stone River Circuit or 
Murfreesborough Station. The advertisement states 
i ! iul he preaches and sings well, and it is supposed he 
v, ill try to make his living in that way. The crim 
for which he is advertised is two-fold— he is black .and 
■•\ as born contrary t> the Declaration f Independence. 
~V.rna.ps he has some wild notions of his responsibility 
;is a preacher, and is inclined to give a too literal con 
;:truction to the. passage, ^Go ye into all the world, &t. 
is not liiis n great Country, where, preachers of the #v- 
i rlasting gospel are advertised like stray cattle? 



E A S T R\ 
COJV EN f 10 N . 



ANECD*OTE. At the recent peace convention at 
Portland, Gen.Fesscnden took ->ccasiou to relate the 
circumstances of his conversion to peace principles - 
He had formerlv been a military man and had passed 
throngh all the grades of oilice, from a corporal up to 
commander of a ful division. He was, on a certain 
occasion, going to a military review, riding in full dress 
regimen als, when he happened to meet a Quaker ac- 
quaintance. The latter did not aqpear to notice him 
as he approached, until he came so near that he was <>- 
blged lo cneck hish>rso, to avoid running against him. 



? 9 ? ¥ 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE 



Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened sn 
office for the sale of Anti Slavery Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts fee. at 118 Nassau Street, New 'York, Let them 
be well patronized. 

Temperance Houses. 



ALBERT GfUBNEE, Peterson. 
Please forward the names, and thus favor a temper- 
The honest Quaker then looking up to him with a pe- 1 ance community. 

culiar significance, ' Friend Fesscndcn, has thee not thy : ; 

Christian armor on ? ' The*e words struck him acute- ■ 

'v. for he was then a professed disciple of Christ ; and \ CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
while riding in the fi. Id and reviewing his troops, with ! TION Is a small hook published by JOHN KEEP 
a multitude of bristling bayonets b fore him, he though j Pastor of a Congregational Church m Ohio. K Should 
of 'he old Quaker and his Christian armor! from that byroad by every body. A few copies for saWat tbe 
m be lost his interest in military afiairs, and no* j Freeman Office. Boontou. N. J. 

anks araonj the most zealous advocates ofthec.auf> ' ■ 



j of peace . 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sate at (he Office of 
the Freeman, Boonton, N. J , 



.Tt is now decided that this great convention is to h 
! M in Bn.on on W ■ inesday the First day of Oc** • 
1845 at 10 o'clock. A. M. • 



Cutaneous Democracy. 

I endorse without reserve, the much «- 
Th Call issued is signed by individuals from ad uV j bused sentiment of Gov George McDuffie 
New England 'States, New V .rk, New J * % " n ' , hat SLAVERY IS THE CoR Erf Stqsr ->P OU 
nsylvania and Delegates arc invito 1 from other Stat"-. ... 
R e"l specified in the call. tPUBUCAN EDIFICE while / repudiate as m\, 

Thiaiwil' be a great Electing convened far gi*» uloVH & absurd, that much lauded but. n 
purposes; may iibe great in its results j where accredited dogma of Thomas Jeffri 

Wc trust S, Jersey will be r-spectably rcpr-. q | that all men are born equal " 

ted there, All should go that can. • " „ r , 

(-«ov Hammond, or S. L. 



ft is an incontestible truth, that there i.- 
more !i;ivoc made in one year by men, than 
has been uvuic by all the lions, timers, pan 
ihera; leopards hyena?), rhinoceroses, eh- 
phants, bears, and wMvt\s. since thi beg'n 
ning of the world " — Ehrwd. Burke. 

With all thy soul love God above, 

And aft Ji ;vh' thy neighbor Iovp. 



"Take the Liberty Party. They stand by ( 
i.ieCons ituaon in iu wuole letter and spn ! 
it, and are for legal and equitable reform ' 
uly. ' — astsifis M. Clay. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

\ few copies of Clark's Liborty M nstr 1 are f»r 
<a « at 'hi- ofih-e. 

Tnis is sup rior to any thing <-f 'be Mnd we have 
en and *h mi be in t >e ooss'-ssion of every one 'hat 
ves 'ood nisi'', and loves to nakc a good useof it. 
Price. 44 Cfnts. 



i .<mton ilasltington Tcmpu uncc Bcncv- 
lc.it Society, — meets every Monday evc- 
,ug in the Free Church. John Uaxlield, 
/'/ trident, Fredrick Stone, Hecraary. 



"From every clime beneath the skeis, 
Brotaned by Slavery's cuain, 
The prayers of captive mi ions rise; 

And shnll ihaj, p cad in vain 



i Boonton Liberty Association. — meets the 
| irst Friday evening of every mouth. 
; j I >,\\in% J'.csidcnt, C.B. Morris, Sec. 



THE NE 





MAE 



VOL. 2^ ■ 

THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES. Editor a\d Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



i)ONTON, OCTOBER •, W 



NO. 5. 



nominal Christians, in a 'and of liberty and 
law! While writhing in the nudist of the 
flames, and struuling in tlv 1 agonies of death 



meeting, as well as my previous handbills addressed to 
tlie people, that this «tory is calumnious; end morally 
impossible. It is enough that th<- Committee of Sixty 
have authorized the Lexington Observer and Reporter 



his murderers were making the welkin to state that no such proposition came from me or any 



TERMS. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers. 
10.. copies to on° address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



A THRILL! \ G I \ I DE N T. 



ring with obscene jests and blasphemous 
[oaths! 

I Should the Misionary Herald report such 
ja scene from heathen shores, what a sensa- 
tion would have been produced ! Mow many 
hearts would swell with indignation aginst 

savage perpetrators and what an impulse 
So long as individual Chrisik.ns can be woultl be given to C } n . istian zeal in al ; the 

found, and even ecclesiastical assemblies, j churches, to send those benighted people the 
who doubi whether slavery is sinful, it may |,, ( , spel ofpeacc! But vvhen perpetrated by 
be prohtablo to keep beilnc the people | ourofVn citizens, within the jurisdiction of 
*uch incidents as the following:—!;. <- iU- ! 0 ur own human laws in a Christian city.and 
zcn - j within the hallowed precincts of Christian 

'A Colored man by the name if Mack- ; churches, wit-; effect dose it produce? only 
intosh employed as a boatman upon the j one editor of the bloody city, dared mention 
Mississippi, him self free, had a Wife in bond- j the fact in a tone of condemnation; and he 
age at St. Louis, was cruely treated, as 
mc/si slaves are. On a visit to his wife. 



paid the forfeit of his penalty with his life! 
4, The next day, the Rev. Mr. Lovejoy who 
wa&if publishing a religious paper in St 
Louis, hearing of the disgraceful scene 
walked out to see the spot. He there found 
among others a large collection of boys a- 
musing themselves by throve ing stones at 
eer stale,. Mackintosh defended himself as I the skull of the murd. red Mackintosh! O- 
who would not? The slaveholder called tq j verwhelmed with sorrow and indignation 
aid constables who undertook to arrest this j he turned U ! his stud >"' aud P enned : ' . dc 



learning what she had suffered, by good 
motives he ventured to go to Iter Master 
aud remonstrate with him on ;he real- 
ine'it of his wife. The slaveholder under- 
took to'chastize him on t he spot, in true over* 



of my friends. This attempt, therefore, to degrade me, 
on the part of those who failed to destroy me, is of a 
piece with this whole outrage of cruelty and wrong, as 
I shall be able to show as soon as my health will allow 

I hope I shall be able to show that I am neither a 
"madman" nor a "lunatic." 

They who sent hack from Themopylas the sublicaa 
message, "Go tell it at Lacedamon that we died here ia. 
obedience to her laws" — the Roman who returned to 
captivity and t<i death that his country might be saved — 
Sydney, Hampden, and Russet— Emmet, who uttered 
the mighty instincts of a great soul, "the man dies but 
his men.ory lives" — Adams who exclaimed " Survive 
or perish I am for the declaration" — Henry who cried, 
"Give me liberty or give me death" were all, io tie 
eyes of these men, "madmen" and "fanatics-" 

It was necessary that some one should bear the stan- 
dard of Liberty into the enemy's camp, and by so doing, 
whether he stood or fell, arouse this great nation firocs 
the lethargy and death, which have come over the spir- 
it of a once free people. It has been the policy of wise 
statesmen ; n all ages, to clothe the humblest citizen with 
the concentrated power and inviolability of the whole 
empire. It was enough for one amidst the w ildest bar- 
barians to say, "I am a Roman citizen," and he was 
safe. No country in Europe is so careful of individual, 
and national glory as Fiance, the first nation of Europe, 
and England, but a few years ago, was ready to per:! 
her thirty millions of lives on the rescue of a single sub- 
ject. It cannot, therefore, be less than madness in the 
American people, if they expect long to live as a nation, 
and not to fall an easy sacrifice to foreign aggression, or 

/. c . r , ., V"' j SCl'ipti.'-n of the whole transaction which ! or internal anarchy and despotism, to look coolly on, 

freeman guilt v of no crime, but that of in- , . r ,.. , * •_. j, , „ , !„.„,.„„ , 7,",, ' r J -. 

• . ibeing published kindled another flanie that j wheneven the numblcst oftnose contea ding for consti^ 

Ournngdang r (or hlSOWnwile.Hcresisted| wasqiR>nrhedonlv by the murder of Love- tutional and national honor are overborne and 

and in the scuitie that issued one of the con- Jj 0 y himself! " ! tram P lcd down in the battle.— Surely that nation cannct 

stables was killed. — Mackintosh Was 'bound ' " j live long, far less be free, that sees time after time, 

dragged awav to prison, and locked up in j Letter from Cassius IH Clay. | whatever of spirit and manly independence may any- 

a IHon's cell." At the dead of night the en I Lexincton, Ky. Sept. 4th, 1845. M**" C f ,blt ^ hed and utterly extinguished. 

T »AA tri| . : , n) , " Ctn \Benj.Umn, Same, S Glascoe, Jacob Ernst. Other n tW >"° U then and thc P e0 P lc of Cincinnati, my 

raged popnl ,ce, uil U iron bars, sledges and I mw> Geo. W. Phillips, R. G. Mhch.il. JamJ «^-**«». ™* gathered under the same national 
picks, repareu to the prison and commenced j Calhoun. j Constitution, to w hich I owe allegiance, and which 

moving the" walls, stone after stone I Gentleman : I have iust received your letter of th j owes me protection, brothers of the same blood, inherit- 
was loosed from its bed and the enfuriatt d - 7th uIt - enclosing the proceedings of the citizens o, I the same recollections of the past, and looking in the 
rabble with horrid oathes and imprecation- i Cincinnati nnd their resolutions in public meeting 



Their words of kindness and generous pnreciation 
Simmered revenge; and With the zeal plfU noble- and dignified avowal, have moved me mo, 
devils iTItarnale Urged <m the hellish Work j the studied cruelties and wrongs of my enemies, thougl 
When at leng h they got sight of there ! 1 was unnerved by diSeasej and threatened for long day* 
victim a savage veil rent the air such a: , H nights, with a horrible death 

I 1 thank vou that vou have not allowed the calumnious 

would do honor to the nether pit. | manifesto of the revolutioil!Sls of lhe 18th of Augus: 

Mackinto-h was seized and dragged from jto weaken you- confident* ir my loyalty to the Costi- 
out the enclosure of the law, and thence jfuuon and laws. 1 thank you that you have seen no- 
taken out of the precim ts of the city i hin S in thp P ast 0 causo - vou t0 losc confidence in the 

A Stake Was erected the victim was '"'"'•<•> that mv « measures and m ans "will be - saf-, 

made fast to it, a pil of faggots was laid 
ar und, the infuriated moV, eager to glut 
their vengence in the blood of an innocent 
man, formed a circle, and a torch was ap 
plied. 

Can the history of Paganism present a 
bh ker scen^ 1 Those scenes of savag 
Da barity the recital of which has so often 
made our youthful blood run cold are inno- 
cf-o recreations compared with cold blood - 
jrder perpetrated by the hands of 



'^ctical and p 'acab e." I thank you, that you deem 
\r)\ ^fwork high and hoh ," and for the reverent and 
oul-sustaining invocation of Divine protection on me 
and r^n it. 

You, gentlemen, have taken me on trust ; the tinv 
for my defence will come vith my re-established health, 
when, I venture to say, your se nt^nce will not be revo- 
ked by "Kentucky and the world." 

I shall allude to onlv one eharsre coin" the rounds of 

v ODD 

the papers — that there was a compromise between m. 
and the Rebels of the 18th, and that I agreed to discon- 
tinue the publication of the True American, provided 
they would spare the press. It is unnecessary for me 
to say to you who have seen my letter addressed to the 



future to the same inseparable destiny, that you have 
not cowered before the slave power ; but that you stood 
by the friendless, the powerless, the fallen,' and dared to- 
*peak out for constitutional republicanism and eternal 
!ustice, which have been violated in my person. Above 
aP, am I deeply affected by the fact, that you assembled 
; n "mass meeting" without distinction of party ; and as 
and as both parties here lost in overwhelming subservi- 
ence to slaverv, so you of the Free States begin to unite 
iri the defence of your rights and in the cause of nation- 
al liberty. 

If the Whigs and Democrats and Liberty Men shall 
become really what they assume, then is half my 
"work" aceomplised, and the repuclic safe — for though 
my State should sink into irrevocable despotism, there 
there will be left somewhere on this wide continent, a 
home for the exile and the oppressed. 

With regard to the Press, I would briefly remark, that 
my banner "God and liberty" will never be struck. 

Though overpowered by numbers, I have the saiuo 
unconquerable w ill and defiant spirit, as though the day 
had not gone against nie. It is for those who fight for 
the wrong, to despair in defeat. 

I shall not "die through mortification" es my enemies 
would have it. t tru^t I shall yet live to see those wh. . 
on the lSih of Au?uht, l846,rog^Snarms, erverpewesed 



m 



\ 



> v civil authorities and overthrew the constitutional 
liberties of the State, and established on its ruins an 
irresponsible despotism, hurled from their usurped pla- 
x:s of fanci<*3 security, and Kentucky yet made free. 

If, hou ever, this be a vain hope, still I w ill not repine, 
! for I should feci prouder to have fallen with her honor, 
and to have ingloriously triumphed with my enemies, 
over the grave of the liberties of my country. With 
gratitude anp admiration, I am your friend and obedient 
rvant, C, M. Clay 



Self Marriage. 



A couple had been living together, as man andwif 

In Philadelphia, for some time. — The gentleman — per- 
haps becoming tired of the incumbrance — refused snp- 

port his reputed wife: She instituted a suit to obtain 
iier share of his worldly substance. The defence was 

hat they were nut legally married. It appeard that no 
•clergyman , or minister of law, officiated at the mar- 
riage" ceremony; but that the parties acknowledged j the Washingtonian movement, in 
themselves man & wife in the presence of witnesses. 
This Judge Sargent decided to be legal marriage, am 
brded ihc husband to give seenrity for the payment of 
$ 10 per week for the support of his wife. With this 
decision the husband refused to comply, and was im 
prisoned for eomtempt of court. He was subseqnen • 
v; brought before the court, backed by an extraordinary 
- ombination of legal talent, on aplication for adischarg . 
3ut all to no purpose; the judge was inexorable. 

The decission is not new. This interpretation of Il- 
ia w was estableshed in England many years ago, air 
a law pro' iding for marriage in this form was adop ! 
in South Carolina in 1609, "in order that none mig 
>,.: hindered in so necessary a work," "there being n. 
ministers." 



EXTKAV agance in churches. 

New York seems to be seized with a rage for fine 
< Lurches. The New York Sun says it is rumored 
that St. Paul's church, a venerable edifice in that city, 

I j bo pulled down, and an edifice as magnificent as 
Trinity church to be erected in its place. Men never 
attach more importance to the externals of religion, 
*han when they have lost its inward life. The true 
* imple of God is the sincere and humble heart. When 
C is displaced from this temple by Pride or Worldli- 
r ' . then it is the man deilghts in decorating temple.-* 
ma c with hands. It would do well for some of these 
; V w Yorkers to re-member the woe pronounced upon 
'. em who made clean the outside of the enp and pla - 
•' : but Within were full of defilement. Cin. Herald 



■ Ehe torpor and positve crimes ef so many professors 
-of Christianity, especially with regard to slavery, have 
in::ck- mole infidels in this country, than all the false 
philosophy and thought ess sneerj of had men pnt to- 
gether. 21ie cause of Christianity is betrayed in the 
housi of its friends." 

Tits above paragraph is taken from C. M. Clay's 
True Amricaa, and it is true to the very letter Tht 
c >urse pursued by a large majority of American min- 
is :rs and American churches on the subject of slavery, 
has done more to establish infidel principles, than ail 
t he Paini . , Voltaircs and Rosseaus that ever lived; and 
• rt iionc :irc denounced with more bitterness as infidels 
tbauarc -J'A those who dare to question the infallibility 
fthos churches and ministers. It is not to be won- 
dtfrcd that uudcr such circumstances honest men 
;-hould<bc found at war with the church. They must 
ft tfctj nature of the case, for honest men must disowu 
. u h cfayrches as the churches of G"d, and such minis- 
t ::• -3. tV: true Ambassadors of God. They will yet bo 
wei :hc 1 in the balance and found wanting. 



To Gild access to the mercy seat, men must duly re- 
..;*.•!«'■' claims of the poor and needy, and take part 
with the weak against the Ptroiig — with the oppressed 

■'• ••» r :j-y Krrp, 



FIRST ANNUAL MEETING. 
Horris C ounty Washington Temperance 
Society. 

The first annual meeting, of the Morris County 
Washington Temperance Society, was held in the Pres- 
byterian church at Parcippany on Thursday Sept. 18 th. 
in ihe afternoon and evening. The President, Dr. J. 
Grimes of Boomon was in the chair. The meeting 
was opened with prayer by Rev. Henry Belden. 

A song appropriate to th> occasion, was then sung by- 
Mr J. M. Brown; after which a resolution was passed 
inviting all the friends of temperance present to partici- 
pate in the me- ting. 

The business committee introduced the following rcs- 
jiutions, which were discussed during the remainder of 
.he afternoon, by Messrs. Sayre, Dr. Fairchild, Belden, 
Grannis, Bradley, Brown, am others, and unanimously 
idopted, at the close of the evening session. 
Resolved, That the great success, which has attended 

i is land, is to be 
tributed, so far as human instrumentality is concerned, 
• the spirit of kindness, which has characterized it from 
le commencement. 

Resolved, That those objections, sometimes urged 
igainst our enterprise, which are founded on the fact, 
hat some violate their pledge; are entirely unreasonable. 
The pr sentation of such objections, has the appearance 
at least, or a want of philanthropy. 

Resolved, That the sole object of this society is, and 
ver ought to be, the promotion of temperance ; to this 
>bject alone, all our efforts, as an association, onght to 
invariably and perseveringly directed. 
Whereas — It is the duty ofeverv friend of temperance 
■ .6" all proper means for the suppression of the vice 
. intemperance; — and whereas, there is but little hope 
at accomplishing this, until the traffic in intoxicating 
drinks is entirely stopped ; — and whereas, according to 
the genius of our government, it is right, and it is the 
duty of even citizen, ^to express, and enforce, his vir- 
tuous sentiments, by means of the ballot-box : Therefore 
Resolved, That we wil vote for such men, and forsuch 
only, as are in favour of the immediate and entire sup- 
pression of the traffic in intoxicating drinks. 

Resolved, That all laws licensing or protecting the 
traffic in intoxicating brinks, ought to be repealed, while 
all prohibitory statutes now in force ought to be contin- 
ued in operation. 

Resolved, That the practice now becoming somewhat 
common, of removing the Bar in Taverns, from the 
front room on the first floor down into the cellar, is to be 
hailed as an indication of the powerful influence of that 
public sentiment, which is frowning destruction upon 
the unhallowed business. 

Resolved, That those landlords, who let out their 
houses to be occupied as rnm-shops, are as really res- 
ponsible for the miseries which are entailed upon their 
neighbours as the rum-sellers themselves. The partak- 
er is always to be regarded as bad as the thief ; and th 
man who, for the sake of a few more dollars rent, is 
willing to hire out his tenements for rum-shoqs, is as 
guilty as the person who stands behind the counter, and 
for the sake of three, cents, poisons a man, and sends 
misery and starvation into his family. 

In the evening Mr. Alexander We'sh of New York, 
delivered a very entertaining address, and temperance 
songs were sung by Messrs. Martyn and Brown. The 
following 'ist of officers was then chosen for the ensuing 
year. 

Rev. H. R. Hedges President. 
Vice-Presidents, Silas Tuttle, D. Dehart, Geo. W. 
Esten, G. L Woodruff, and S. A. Condit. 

Corresponding Secretary, Jacob Blythiug. 
Recording Sjbretary, John Grimes. 
Treasur r, G. W. Esteu. 



Executive Committee, J. Bly thing, B. B. Gris cr >ld, 
S. A. Condit, F. Stone, Ed .ard Howell, H. P. 
Green, T. Riley, M. Evarts, J. Maxfield, J. Grannis, 
and i. Mc Gee. 



SIXENCIN© A WHIG. 

Mr C' dding, of Illinois, in a letter to the Chicago Cit 
izen, giv> s the fo lowing account of the manner in which 
he silenced a whig who charged the Liberty party with 

having elected Polk: 

1st. That the issue between the two parties on tLo 
subject of Texas, was not Texas or no Texas, but im- 
mediate or ultimate ami xation. But dropping this and 
admitting that was the issue, and that the Liberty party 
had the balance of power and could have elected Clay 
<ndhav ke.pt out Texas, they where not so guilty 
as the Whigs. Reason: — If three a-d two are fiv , so 
are two and three five. My friend asserts. Well,theri 
if the Whig party and the Liberty party added to it, 
could have i lect d Clay and kept out Texas then the 
Liberty party and Whi b party added, could ha v. elected 
Birney and have kept out Texas. But not only would 
the Libeity parti have kept out Florida as a slave State 
and Iown as a negro oppr ssing State; it would have 
abolished slavery in the District of Columbia, the inter- 
state slave trade, slavery in Florida; it would have re- 
stored ballennc s of the Federal Govunment, divorced 
it from the support of slavery, itself would have sunk 
like lead in the mighty waters. W hat has prevent* d 
al this ? Why the obstinacy of the Whigs in bow ing 
dowa to ther- Clay idol, aui refusing to vote for 
Birney the just. — They then artnot ouly responsible lor 
the annexation of Texas, but for the continuence of 
slavery itself, (if the oxersize of all the righful powers 
of government would lead to its overtrow, which irho 
doubts?) Bui says i y whig friend, "you could not 
expect the Whig party to do any such thing." No, 
no! The Whig party were so bent on elevating th© 
great duelist, slaveholder, Missouri compromiser, cham 
pion of perpetual slavery, to the highest scat in tbo 
gift of the people, that they could not vote for the ac- 
complished the noble Birney, the repentant slaveholder 
revenue tariff man, the anti-anexationist, the man who 
would have all the legetimate powers of governmeut 
enlarge the area of freedom, and to dest roy slavery. If 
the Whig party could not leave its few dollar 
and cent questions, to promote the great and unspeak- , 
able interests of justice and humanity, how much less 
ought it to have been expected, that the Liberty party 
cou'd leave these great fundamental principle to promote 
the time & space questions of the Whig party. The Lib- 
erty party responsible for annexation ! Who in the name 
of the past elected "Tippecanoe and TYLER TOO?" 
Do you say he has deceived yon ? We the Liberty- 
party warned you in 1840, against this man, a weak, 
narrow and bigoted slaveholder, we tuld you that your 
votes might place him not only where he would have 
the casting vote in the Senate, but whe re by a possible 
contingency (enhanced to an almost certainty by the age 
of Harrison.) he might be the President of the U. States. 
That contingency has occurred, and is matter of histo- 
ry- 

When Usphur was nominated by J. Tyler, to the 
Secretaryship on acount of his knov n interest in the Tex 
as conspiracy, nnd abilitv to consummate it; a Whig 
Senate confirmed his nomination; — When by act of 
death God removed that man, and J. C. Calhoun was 
nomina'ed to consummate the infamous schem* , who 
but a w hig Senate, with an indecent haste and, I believ<> 
withont a dissnting voice, con firmed the nomination? 
In the last act of the drama, who had the balance of 
power but too good and true Whigs? They gave that 
power to Texas and Slavery. And now the Whigs turn 
the annexation upon the Liberty party ! Shame !•— ■ 
shame ! ! where is thy blush ? 

the . S Government paid $ 51 00 each 
lor the Blood hounds imported to joi the 
1'. S. Troops as allies in exterminatirg the 
Flo ida Indians . 

Eternal vigilence is the price of freedom anywhere 
and everywhere. Anti-republican church govenrnunt 
is a dangerous element in a RejjuWieao civil govern 
fTH.ni. 



I 



« 



J 



THE WEW J RSEY 

FREEMAN. 

SQONTON, OCTOBER 1, 184' 



Hearts dcod to tho claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanit . withers. Keep. 



THE COUNTY CONVENTIONS. — It is to be 
hoped that these Conventions may be well attended 
The one for Essex County on the 14 Oct. and for 
Morris on the 15. A committee has been appointed to 

6. :cure able speakers to attend the one for Morris at 
Madison, and there should be a full meeting. Let ev- 
ery abolitionist in the County be there and bring others 
with him- Thv [citizens will be addressed in the evening 
and we tope to have a large meeting and do much good. 

We regret that so few of the counties in the State ar; 
giving evidence that thoy are moving in reference to 
jconvcntinns for th- j purpose of forming lickets in pre- 
paration for the November election, but we hope they 
will do so yet. There are Hudson, Passaic, .Sussex, 
"VVarr'is, Burlington, Gloucester and some others, with 
liberty voters enough in them to make out a Ticket and 
give a dsmoftstnytion at the ballot box. We do hope 
the friends ox .liberty in these counties will see to it 
that th« wojk ii done up as it should be. 

L'Jt ujt o k- fricri i of the slave be found sleeping. 
Jfe« Jersey has b en disgraced by some of her public 
functionaries the past yenr, in reference to slavery in our 
State. It h-di been pronounced a slave State bv the 
highest judicial authorities in the State. Let vis clear 
•oar skirts in this matter by giving a faithful testimony 
in the right place. "• 



Frcm the Anti Slavery A roanac for ie46. 
"ONE IDEA PARTY" 

Behold this picture! Both Whig and Democrat -be- 
lieve the great object of government and its main design 
is to make dollars by Tariffs, Banks. SubTresures, Free 
Trade, Corporations, Monopolies, Canals, Rail-roads, 
and by obtaining the money paid for governmental jobs 
in the shape of salaried officers, and in expending thir- 
teen millions annually on sea and land, by the army and 
navy, to keep three mil'ons of slaves from inserrection 
at home, and other nations from invading the assailable 
whip extorted labor in the South. 

The Liberty Party, the great One Idea Party, believe 
that arepub'ican Government is made to protect and de- 
fend every human being in the enjoyment of his natural 
rights, of life, liberty, safety, and happiness, and give 
wages to all, education to all, protection to all — the man 
first, his clothing afterwards; tho man first, his mode of 
transportation afterwards; the man first, and curvney af- 
terwards; the man first and all human contingencies af- 
terwards. 

j The party that respects the man, white, black, 
i brown, or rod, will see that he is fed, clothed' and 
I furnished, and justice done his natural wants, because 
i he is a man, and a man neads them. But the Whig 
j and Democratic Parties act as strangely as if they saw 
' a man fall into the River — his hat falls one way, his 
! great coat another, his pack another; these old parties 
! cry out Save that hat ! Oh, save that great coat or it 
'■ will be lost ! Oh, save that pack or it will "sink forever 
The Whigs and Democrats put out there skiffs and 
scull for the coat, the hat and the pack; the Liberty 
Party cry, Oh, save the sinking man ! and put out their 
skiffs, and, by his locks they save the drowning man , 
and will then look for the hat, coat and pack, because 
as a man he needs them. 

AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE. 



And there is very little loss in that trade. Nothiag 
is lost if two out of five trips succeed. And that trade: 
has of late rather increased than diminished." 

"To the enquiry, why American vessels are prefer- 
red and sought for by the slave-dealers, and why they arc; 
willing to pay such high prices for them, it may be an- 
swered that no other flag caries with it the same mm%? 
nities. 

The apathy at home on this subject is attributed jui*- 
ly to an almost total ignorance of its importance and 
cons" quences, and especially of its detail. This will 
no longer be the case. The powers that be, and the 
pnblic too as far as depends upon me, shall be reacted 
in future. Listlessness itself shall be aroused; and tfea 
fear of the laws at home and abroad, and full attention 
everywhere, shall be struck by the crowds of GaJpritp 
tsrrested and sent home to justice, unless onr citizejie 
immediately desist from the practices of this trade." 



Resolved That we will never call colored people 
niggers, nor other hard names, but that we will love 
them and do them all the good we can. 

? 



It will bo seen by the Cwunty Washington Society 
recently held in Parsippauy, that the W$shiljgt#oiass 
are becoming more and more satisfied that consistency 
requires them to carry their principles to the ballot-box 

We rejoice that this fooling is gaining ground rapidly 
through the country generally, and wc tejoiee still 
more when »p know that the disposition to carry all 
moral principles to the ballot box is rapidly on th< 
gain every where. People arc not much longer to be 
humbugged with the foolery of designing politicians and 
hungry office-seekers, and made to believe that moral'- 
has nothiug to do with politics; that it will do to b 
honest ever day in the year hut ©ae~, though that one 
may be the most important of the whole year. 

Intelligent Temperance men every where, are be- 
coming satisfied that their cause cannot progess mud: 
more while rumsellers and their Auxiliaries hold tfe< 
power for legislation, and use that power for their own 
benifit, or at least refuse to do any thing to stop the 
floods of iniquity that are contimialy issuing from the 
dramshops. 

They have used and advocated moral suasion uni' 
they believe that they can do liltle more with mor 
suasion separated from the suasion of the Balio 
box. In this age of light on this subject when th 
indescribable, and innumerable crimes and miseries that 
are the legitimate offsprings, of intemperance are held 
np before the eves of all tho people ic their best ligb 
we have but little charity for those who can sell rum, 
and we believe that all rum. sellers that can resist tho 
light f this age, & that have thus far turned a deaf ear 
to the thrilling appeals that have been made to them b 
the wretched victims of their trade as well as the elo- 
quent advocates of the temperance cause, are hopeles 
cases, and require something stronger than mere "moral 
suasion as the term is too generaly understood. 

Let us banish the notion that we have done all we 
can by moral suasion, till we have voted right. 



Moral questions have to a great extent a political 
bearing, and all political questions have a moral bearing 
Step. 



A series of articles upon this subject have lutely been ! 
published in the New York Evangelist, under the head j 
of Letters from Brazil The writer gained his informa j 
tion from Hon. Henry A Wise of Virginia, now residing I 
at Rio de Janeiro as American Minister to Brazil. 

He states that Mr. Wise has been vigorously prose 
J euting an investigation into this infamous business ev- ; 
! since he has been here, and it is his statement, tbat no' ! 
j less than 64,000 slaves have been imported from Africa j 
j during the past year ; and 5000 since August last, in ( 
American bottoms. He adds that Mr. Wise has a Jarg j 
I folio volume, a good part of it closely written w itfc { 
j opies of the despatches on this subject to the Depar 
J meat of State, from which he read to him extracts, to 
j show his views upon it, and to make him acquainted 
with the names and ownership of a number of vessels 
>>om tho United States, that have been and still ar 
orosecuting this infernei traffic. 

The following extracts from letters and despatches, 
are- given from Mr. Wise's book. 

"Documents herewith transmitted, will show the na 
fure, connections, anb extent of the African slave-trad 
as it is, and has for some time been, unblushingiy caried 
an by oar citizens under our flag. It has grown so 
I old and so bad as no longer to wear a mask, even to 
; .hose who reside here, and who are at all acquainted 
with the trade between Brazil and Africa. Upon infor- 
mation showing more than probable grounds I hesitated 
not to advise our Consul, Mr. Gordon, to cause the ar- 
rest of the master, mates, and crew of the brig Monte- 
video, and to hold them in custody on board of the 
Boston sloop-of-war until he could examine into the 
cas . The examination has proceeded to a great length, 
and I have given to it my personal attention and atten- 
dance ; and I must say, ft has developed a combination 
of persons and of means to carry on this infamous traffic, 
to the utter disgrace of human nature, and to the dis- 
honor of our flag and of all three nations— England, 
Brazil, and tne United States." 

"I had no conception of the extent, the universality, 
and the notoriety of the traffic ,until duly called upon to 
aid in arresting its crimes. 



HEVER GIVE VVl 

BY MAHTIN F AKQUU AS TUWE*. 

Never give up! its wiser and better 

Aiways to hope than once to despair: 
Fling oft the load of doubt's cankermg fettei 
And break the dark spell ot tyrannica. care: 
Never give up! or the bnrdenmay sink yot>— 

Providence kindly has mingled the cup, 
And in all trials or troubles, bethink you, 
The watchword of life must be, Never give try! 

Never give up! there are chances and change 

Helping the hopeful a hundred to oae, 
And, through the chaos, High Wisdom arrange* 

Every success — if- you'll ^nly i opt on: 
Never give up! for the wisest is boldest, 

Knowing that Providence mingles the cup, 
And of a 1 maxims the best are the oldest, 
Is the true watchword of Never give up. 

Never give up! though the grape shot may rattle, 

Or the full thunder cloud over you burst, 
Stand like a rock, and the storm or the battle 

Little shal harm you though doing their worst : 
Never givi up! if adv. rsity press, s 

Providence wisely has mingled the cup, 
j- And the best counsel, in all vour distress, 
Is the stout watchword of Never give up. 

! VERMONT. The Election in this State shows a 
J great gain for liberty, a gain of 62 percent while there 
has been afalling off' from the other parties. This State 
has assumed a new aspect in reference to the cause of 
he Slave. 12 Liberty men have been elected to the leg- 
is lature and in many towus ther. is no ch ice, leaving 
a chance for the election of more true men. 

NOTICE. 

The Executive Committee of the Morris Comity 
Washington Temperance Society will meet at the 
house of Calvin Howell in Whippany on Saturday the 
I8th. Oct. inst, at 3 o'clock P. M. 

Men who will elevate property above humanity — 
matter abo\e Spirit — will sacrifise human life on the al 
tar of property. Keep 

There is nothing so high of so holy which the touch 
of sectarianism will not taint and transmute into its own 
debased image. 

It is a peculiarity of soctarianism to substitute the pro- 
fession for the practice: hence it fails, when the Chare b 
insists upon practice, or a fair Christian character, 
as a test of membership ; Keep. . 



POETRY. 



The following line's from the p u of the Quaker poet, 
v.-ere addre sed to Jonathan W alkt r on his return from 
Florida where he had been long imprisoned, fin d, pu, 
:n the pil ory and branded w ith the letters S S in t)w 
hand with a hot iron by an officer of the U. S. govern- 
ment, for endeavoring^to assis/ in the < scape of some 
fugitive slaves. 

THE BRANDED HAND, 
BY JOHN G. WHITTLES.. 
Welcome home again, brave seaman! with thy though 

ful brow and gray, 
And the old heroic spirit of our earlier, better day — 
With lhat front of calm endurance, on whose steady 
nerve in vain, 

Pressed 'he iron of the piison, smote the fiery shufts of 
pain. 

Is the tyrants brand upon thee! Did the brutal craven;- 
aim 

To make God's truth thy falsehood, His holiest work 
thy shame? 

"/.Tien all hood qucuched, from the torture the iron 

was withdrawn, 
How laughed their evil angc ! the baffled fools to 

scorn. 

They change to wrong the duty which^God has written 
ouf 

• >n the great heart of humanity too legible for doubt! 
i'/jcy, the loathsome moral iepers, blotched from foo' 

sole up t<> crown, • 
tjive to shame what God hath given unto honor am' 

renown. 

Why that brand \s highest honor! than its traces never 
yet 

1 pan old armorial hatchments was a prouder blazon set 
And thy unborn generations as they crowd our rocky 
strand, 

. bill tell *vith pride the story of their father's BRAND- 
ED iiAiND! 

As the tcnmlar home was welcomed, bearing back from 
Syrian wars 

The scars of Arab lances, and of Paynim scimetars, 
The pallor of the prison and the shackles crimson span 
^o we meet thee, so we greet thee, truest faiend of God 
and man! 



That he who treads profanely on the scrolls of low 

and cr'-ed 

In the (1 "pth of Gods great goodness may find mercy 
in his need; 

But woe to him that crushes the SOUL with chain 

and r. dj 

And herds with lower natures the awful form of God! 

Then lift ihat manly right hand, bold plowman of 

the wave, 

[Its broad palm shall prophecy "SALVATION TO 

THE SLAVE!" 
I Hold up its fire-w rought language, that whoso reads 
U may feel 

' His hear' swell strong within him, his sinews change 
to steel. 



j A }*( ung gentleman at the temperance 
I meeting on being asked to sign the pledge, 
! excused himself by saying, "1 am not quite 
! ready"' At the close of the meeting, he pro- 
posed to one of t he young ladies present to 
see her home "I am not quite ready." was 
the laconic reply. 



> Proposals are made by VVm D Parish of No 4 
North 5th Street Philadelphia to publish the Life of 
Benjamin Lundy This is as it should be, the services 
rendered to the cause of universal liberty bv Mr Lundy 
.hould never be forgotten. Let subscriptions be sent id 
speedily in order to insure its publication without delay. 
We believe the price is 75 cents 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The followin; 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib 
erty Association. 

Condition of Living. 

The cause of Hard times. 

Influence of Slave power 

One more appeal to Christians & Churches. 

Bible Politics. 

Jewish Servitude. 

Smith & Clarkson. 

Persons he/d to service. 

Loyal National Repeal Association. 

Duties and Dignities of American Freemen. 

Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. S. 

Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 

The lawlessness of slavery. 

Poems on S/avery by Longfellow. 

The Missouri Compromise. 

Smiths Constitutional Argument. 

Two cents Postage 

Address to the People of Kentucky by C. M. 

Clay. 



THE REFORMER, This is the title of a New 
Weekly paper the specimen number of which has just 
be^n issued by Henry Peterson, at J 87 Market Street 
Philadelphia, devoted to liberty and other reforms. It 
is an excellent paper and should be well patronized. It 
is a good size and well executed. The price is Two 
Dollars a vear. 



He suffered for the ransom of the dear Redeemer's 
grave; 

Thou for his living presence in the bound and bleeding 
slave; 

He for a soil bo longer by the feet of angels trod, 
Thou for the true Shechinah, the present home of God. 

For while the jurist sitting with the slave whip oc'r 
him swung. 

From the tortured truths of freedom the lie of slavery 
wrung, 

And the solemn priest to Moloeh, on each Ged-deserted 
shrine, 

iiroke the bondman's heart for bread, poured the bond- 
man's blood for wine, 

While the multitude in b indness to a fa- off Sav- 
iour kneit, 

And spurh-'d, the while, the temple where a present 

Saviour dw ell; 
Thotl be he id 'si him in he task field, in the prison 

shadows dim, 
And thy mercy to the bondman, it waa mere unto him! 



THE ANTI SLAVERY ALMANAC, 

for 1846, is just; published b FINCH & WEED, 118 
Nassau Street New York, and for sale by them, whole- 
sale and retail. They an' also for sale at the office of 
th Fr man in Boonton. 

Even ami slavery man in the State should constitute 
himself an agent for the sale and distribution of this Al- 
manac. Let this be done without delay. 



$gr» The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
has made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
the comming year. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 
gent and Editor of the .\nti Slavery Reporter. The 
Reporter is an excellent paper ■ published monthly at 
118 Nassau street N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year for a single 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies > 
3,50. and 50 cop'rns for $ 12,50. subcriptionu will bo 
received at this oliieo. ■ 



f 



5St 

<4» 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened an 
office for the sale ofAuti Slavery Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c. at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 
be well patronized. 



{jcgp The Washingtonians of Newark have sent out 
proposals for a Stale Temperance Convention to be 
held in Trenton on the 2d. Tuesday in Oct. inst. 

We like the move, bnt think th time rather short to 
make it ful y kno vn throughout the State. 



arches, sky above and 
than the babblinsj 



la thy lone and long night 

wave below, 
lieu did'st learn a higher wisdo 

school-men know; 
Go&'fe clars add silence taughf thee as his angels 

orny can, 

-3!frat, tb.J one, -.-acred thing beneath the cope of heaven 
id taav.. 



ESSEX COUNTY. 

A C( ) \ V E NT O \ of those fa\ ourable 
to for ning a Liberty ticket for the Coun y 
of Lssex will be held* at the House of A H. 
Freeman in Orange on Teusday the 1 1th 
davofO'-t 1845, at one o'clock P. M 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the. title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protestant 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale af this office, price 31 conts. 



-CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



MORRIS C JUNTY 

Those citizens of Morris Counry in favor 
of holding a Co en ion for the purpose of 
forming a Liberty Ticket for this County 
are requested to meet at M; Keeps lonjg 
room in Madison oa Wednesday the 15day 
of < October at 3 o'clock P. M - Let all thcMe 
who think more of fh • man, than thev do 
of his .hat & coat be in attendance, 
speakers will be engaged for the occasion. 

Qct. 1 1845. 



Able 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 
the Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

\ lb copies of Clark's Liberty Mtnstr I are for 
sa e at hi - office, 

This is sup rior to any thing -.f 'he Kind we have 
s.-en and sh-iid be in t e osscssion of e\ery ot e hat 
l ives ood nusi , ;ind loves to make a good use i<f it. 
Price, 44 cents. 



li,<>nt<m Hashin gton Tcmpemnu benev- 
olent Society?— meets every Monday eve 
umg in the Free Church John axfieid, 
PresUU/U, Fredrick Stone, Hartlaiy 

Bounton Liberty Association. — meets the 
first Friday evenn. of every uioni' 
M. Lvaris, J'.evnUnt, L JB. A on is, 




v OL. 

THE FREEMAN 

WIJ.L BE . PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and 'Proprietor. 
Boontbn, Mdrris Co nty, New Jersey.. 

T E R M S,. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, or.for T2. numbers. 
10. copies to one address for tv, o dollars. . 
All communications must-be post paid. 



B joTOi\, XQ EMBER , 1845; 



Orange, .Oct. 15, 1845. . 

Dr. Grimes, 

The Anti Slavery friends of. this 
Township have recently .organized .themselves with the 
viev.- of laborns more efficiently for the Airier, can slave 
and the colored man: avpiding the tedious and needless 
formula of a series of ' Articles'for a cOsstition, we have 
united upon a pledge for a "basis, which is as tear as 
my memory perves, it not 'being -within ray reach while 
f write, in the fo lowing words. >■ ': 

"l'h" undersigned believing Am'erieah slavery to be 
an outrage on humanity and sin against. God, and believ 
ing it to be a duty to labor for its overthrow, agree to 
form blur selves in'o an association known as the Aati- 
S'.av-ry Assoc ration Of Orange, New Jersey. ■ 

By treating the colored man as our brother man, re- 
refusrno- to .bestow 'our suffrage upon the slave holder, 
his defender or a >o! g ; st for any office in church or S ? ate 
and by end avoring on all occas ; ons to" make our neigh- 
boj s^ 0 fir enormity pf Slave-holding, we will act out 
the light that is v> ithin us. . 

To this foundation *re have nine signatu res, all men; 
when our women write their names, there will be about 
twice that number. . This will do to begin with, and 
if vv do not forge.t Vmr individuality because we are as • 
Wiat d, the same truth that ■ has brought 
us to this position- wiil be likely to bring m any more 
Richard Kelsal is our P/esident. Our -County, 

ticket was r..r.d yesterday, how many wiH be found 
willjft"- to vote for the recognition Dt" every rrian as a 
bran, is •■ et :c be sscerrjiii^d; butt:." re £ a prospect of 
=a Llnusotne increase, upon the last . vote. 

JWKjfc' : < ■ You]-, ■-• ^ ■>»/ : >... : :/i. ■!' 

' ■-. . ••• A.'.H. -Freeman. . .. 

fli''. following Ticket Was niade out for Essex 
LIBERTY TICKET. • • 
For Senator 

' Jonathan PaVkfrutSfv 
Fcr Assembly) 

John A. Pain**, 
William Patersoh, 
John Lee, ' 
Jemeh White,' 
• Alexander H. Fr>eraatt, 
Aaron B. Harrison, 
James Ball. 

. • ' F* Sheriff, 

> . Richard Kelsal. 

For Car oner », 

William G. Crane,. 
Peter C'ourter, 
John Gibbe. 

A^,f>ont • forget the State M • 'tiwr on »be 12th'. 
a t p, -son. Let our Pater:- n fri ndss^e that this meet- 
ing is well pub lished in their Towp- 



• A \bcd< 'TE of Geii. Fessedeu. — : After 
(■Jen Fessendeo had taken a st atin an Om- 
an bus ii. Cambridge; last', week, a colored 
man of respectable ppearence eniered the 
vehicle iand t..»ok a seat be i< 5e him.- imme- 
diately a person seized him by the collar 
and o dered him out Gen. Fe^seuden, in 
his turn seized this- person by the collar and 
commended him -.to let the unoffending col- 
ored man alone He had no rigm t«» thrust a 
man -out of a public >]riage in t: s way. 

' itlt,' said the fcllew , l ain from the 
S uth,' and not accu*temed to riding wilh 

riggers:' ' . 

I also airi f.:< m the ' outhy -aid another 
passenger, 'ancl am ver'v sorry to hear tha 
you are from that part of the. count y. Iain 
from Mobile, and am acust'omed to vi-df 
with blacks every day and I have no 
objection to ride yvi.-h I his- it an 

On inquiry, tie-,. Feseuden learned from 
the sqwamikh slayeholdcr *hat he mas ori- 
ginaily a ,\ew Kinghin.: raati \—B. Guzett 



THE BRAtfDElKHAlsP 




^eiigion (in Cbfe popular cerise we shou'd 
think is a low etrb in the Ffa $ei n 'chu relies 
There is a great breaking i way from pre- 
conceived opinions -obi i r^.xls -sectaritui- 
ism reverence for the clergy There seems 
to be a disposition msnifeste.d on the part 
of tlie people to t dak and art for the "iS^lyes 
independant (»f ec'ch siasfica! or politic .ii or- 
ganizations. This to some is ah: ( ahtrtiiing 
stale of things; but for our part, if irui.h he 
left .'fre«. to combat error, open, fearles, bold 
we think there is nothing -to fear. • 

We »re (rf. opinion tint she j;re i m *s f 
tbe people are begining bt-'er to uu. ^i sland 
<!ieir 'daty to God, the selves and e.a< h 
o' her and ' e rejoice thxt the march of 
truth is (»nward., Stg uf Li ". 

/»•;. ■ »' <y& ' ■■ sty-.w ' .ii' V- • ' ' "•• ••' '• (.. 

"The Mu.i.ion Meviber • h'p*( h - -There 5-as be< ii, 

;i ^reat fd ing off in; the M :>;hodist Ej>«copal ebure : 

■hroughout the countr the past . ar The t tal d 

<-r»>ase (say nothi:i<; : the recent division ) is 31, 

The increase of local ' 8cl-e.ni. is bu< 14-in the' y. ho: 

onnection ! La.- 1 was 586 And , he total in 

reas'e last year' was ver 155,000. Had the ihcrea*. . 

. seja the same this y u as test, in pr porli n t'i» i\\< 

capital, it would have amounted .o .about 175,000' 

whereas there is an ju t ua;-- falling ot ' of .ov r 30.000 ! 

This makes a di.i. rence of more than 200,000 compa. 

r-d with last year '!— a loss on 1-hr capi a greater than 

the whole M. E. chdrch -as forty f years 'from the tim 

the -first MetimdR! pi'-acht rs comrn m-i-d in Americ 

This looks more lik'- coming to' naught' . especial I y 

when taken in c nnexion with thergr'.ai division and lo 

cal broils all over the connection', than like claiming in 

infallibility on the ground -of a' div'.n> approbation!'! — 

Tr 'C Wedeyan. 

The overthrow of civil and eceli>ias h a! despotisms 

is undoubtedl the grand oharaceii.- it ej prise of the t 

pres nt nd the nejtt coming age. ■ T.. en rpribi- will 

Succeed' and -hose now in active, lif- should go in ad 

vance of the past Keep. 



The above 'cut is' an'exact re'pres?ritati.cty of :th« -.4' 
of Jonathan' Wa'ker. who -had the letters, S. 9. if.trp.'V. 
in his hand with a hot i : rohv.ufider-the laws of .the TJ.-''-. 
by. an officer of the U. S- 'government. at' Peiiiaeoirt fqi 
attempting to -aid a fe-w slaves in their escape from - 
mo g the barharians «»f Florida - He was also, i 
.be r •membered, put ii) the pillory,' where he wat "r 
^n.with rotton-eggs, whipped, imprisoned a loqj- tir. 
and h^javily fin< j d for doing a praiseworthy act. fTl 
lettets S. -S. wer^ intended to mean Slave Swah.r 
Mr U'a k'-r and th. friprids of liberty at the >.ortl yen ■ 
prop ii v read.it "Salvation- for the Slave," so it wiij I •• 

• The following is -an -extract /rorn Mr Walker's nt*r- 
rativt"- which shows some of the. beauties' of the slavt 
•tliafrec.ivess the sancti-n of the TJ. S. Government. 

EXTRACTS 'FROM/ WALKERS NARPvATRT 

During his detention in jail at Pensacola, Mr. Wa.t: 
er endeavored to keep a journal ofevents as they tranj 
pired under his. own observation,- 'or-' came v-ithhi - 
knawA'dgo'. -{V.. T.) — t-'^ ijis^rfe, and six chil- ' ?fi 
a molatto woman (a cook) and her child, five-' r -sik 
months', old. How that poor- stavo mother, was tr <- 
appears from the following extracts -from Mr. W l 
journal: -..'.- >• .- ' ■■ ':• \ 7.VtJ' f '• 

July 22. L. T. whipped the cook. 
1 24. L. T whipped the cook. • 1 

25. L.'.T. whipped the cook twice 

28, L. T. whipjOed the cook. . ; ' 

Aug. l.-L.:.T. whipped the cook. 

4: -L. T. whipped the C' ok. '. ' 

8. Cook -whipped twic-. once- by L. T. and'*nce t 

12-. L.-T. whipped- the cook. .- ; . '. 

T.4! L.' T. 'whipped the cook. • 

17.- L. -T. whipped the cook four times. —Mi ri. . . - 
iieadfully ciross.- . ' ' .', . .'■ . '■-.' ■-. 

19. h, it: -whrpped- the cook. ' ■ » ' 

•, 21. L. T. whipped the. cook twice 

28. L- T-. whipped tli.e cook- ,','■' "•. ' ,' ■ 

30*. 1»- T: whipped tl»e cook:- L. T. confined; broug:,-. 
t.^rth » fine- boy,'. . . . ' .' •. . 

• Engaged in i/oggmg almost to the hour of her cv : 
onfint mejat ! And w h?n unable to wie-ld the %h he r 
elf. employing her brother to do so ! Thus — . 

Sept. 13. Cook whipped severely. L. T. Y broth 
at her request. v . . 

Once more she is able.to renew Kcr cruelties: 

24. L- T whipped the cook. 

Oct. 1,1 T, whipped the cook; children cry ! j 
wiolosale. ' 

2. Li T. whipped the cook. 

8. L. T. h hipped me cook severely, with hot!. 
■ nd>- of the cow-hide. 

15 L. T.'s mo her whipped the cook. 
19. L. T. whipped the cook. 

25; L. T. Whipped' the vook twic , and another 
servan once. 

Nov 3. L. T. whipped the c ok severely wfaj 
brojomstick >eo!ds tremehdotisly : gives unlimited sco] 
to passion and 'ap rs of! by cr ing herself. 

7.. L. T. whipped the cook. 



-53* 



•lo. 'L. T. whipped the eook. 

T. and mother whipped the cook, alternately, 

■ ill spell- : '• •■. ■ • 
j ; T. whipnod' the; cook; severe/%-. 
i)Vc -2i. X. whipped the cook. 

184*5. L. T. whipped the cook twteo. . 
11. L."-f. whipped the cook. 

vhipped th«? -cook twice. . 
to L f whipped the cook. • 
<Jo*tflinentij>S?#^ case of attroeions erudty; Mr. 
.. jilkeT saV* 



acknow'edge to be an almost intolerable curse to ourl generations 



thirteen southern states, and what we know to be suc» 
to.the whole country be - branded upon dv virgin soil 
I of w ;ich thirteen more Slates are 10 be made? Thank 
God, this is a question which 'the people of the free 
«' Sia.es. have yet .the po er to oecide ! Whatever the o- 
1 pinions of any of them may be in regard to the annexa- 
J tion <>f territory, it is not a ibel upon them to say that 
| they will not vmnimoushj oppose the annexation of slnve 
\ru'l ' Let us look intently at that point for one moment. 
Slavery is a fundamental, total., and entire Violation 



Under the festering wing of this great nation, popu- 
lation will spring forward with a rapidity almost un- 
precedented in Texas, — tens of thousands of victims of 
th<- slave-trade will be carried there from Maryland, 
Virginia, and Kentucky. A new market will give fresh 
impulse to the slavc-bre' ding energies of the northern 
slavf States; the African slave-trade, too, will aid, in 
spite of all laws, in supplying new subjects for the 
naan-market. 

That this result w ill follow, is too obvious for argu- 



i Ma-very is a lunuameuiai, un»i, uu« «.i.v..^. --• , . . 

i of the common, sense' ami common honesty maxim that! meat. Is the North ready to become a partner in this 

.-• ixriii — * u;„ "«>.-^^' Have we lost our consciences and our bu- 



cket says: - • • . m j of the common, sense and common honesty maxim thai , meat. 

S, lH! cs^theyave ££2 KhSH * <*** **» make a oartjainl Without his consent, {Equity 

as being dogged by it takes ail .that a mau has, even that which he canno maniy? 

.*70.^-.nt S for each whipping, the amount wo . , ^ — ^ £ yield> . and glVPS £ t "t6 another I But the slaveholders seek ! :in Texas not only anew 

■mi about $30. from the 19th JU y, wi.on w« | ntd that other, for- awiihl slavery provides, may be iht j market for their slaves, but an accession to the slave 

^M.tothelOth February, whoa the iamily mov , , , ^ "V^- man ; u u J wor!d to receive it. ' Throwing i power m Congress. Th- free and slave States have 
' ; W-he>l. The' reader will- have K^^J&L^i^ bodv and soul, as a chattel, it subject* ' -ach 20 votes in the U. S. Senate. . In the house the 
. whipping? were rnUeh more frequent $ mv warm j _ ^ ^ o{ a chatt , :!) wilh this added "expo tfiee Slates- have 135 votes, the slave slates 89. 

. than "".the cold, and also betorc.her m*h«* | . ^ ^ ^ noble a „ a upward tendency ... [ Hitherto - slavery has bound the Southern- States so 

aftttj ;.;ev,t that, af^rwards.. Jh ■ ^.^^ to t j> | |,- s nature ; s treason against the authority. under which j strongly together that they have contrived by union and 
- ; . i? ke his or her c ..mmonts or conjee. . ^ ^ placed, anb is likely to.be puhisfcei as such.- If it I -oncort, vigiieYice -and political sagacity, always to dc.- 

of ft i- , ' . - •.. . I „.„ ra •* „ • ,ver fail to be punished as such, it is because the mas- 

i he thought ttiat those .whipping!, weie qt no , . -».-.- 



.'oncort, vigilence and political sagacity, always to tlo : 
|f-at the North. But they fear lest new Slates to he 
ft may u« iiiw« 8 — - - . . •«•.•- ^ paren'l eriiH not ye so bad as the system would make him. -| -ormed -from thr northwest terri'.orv should oveturn tbo 
. . ,, ,, rl !y, and merely W^ le ; . '' \ yi the sacred domestic relations are .sacrificed to slav< L a , an( , e •„ thft Senate, at-d add to the strength of tbo 

-^..i ccrrt-et a child; but to test tho qual, y, let a rt K • ^ ^jj^ tjfis'that heaven cau sanction or t)i'e Kpar I - Statos in the „ ouso 
. be covered dnly with a thin cotton no^k ,und U t j ^ feel . ^ made t6 taU asun( i ai - at the exigencies o< 1 ' 
veiled to uncontrolled passion, apply a raw 



If Te:-;;:s can bo annexed,, 

he' balance in the Senate Nvill turn in favor of slavery, 

ind the free majority in the House will be din ir.ished. 

Half a dozen slave States can easily tr formed out •>€ 
idwer of the master. The protection of lite is only . • , 

1>ow . , , , •„• i • L I Texas n a few years. This will give sMcry. an wve&- 

.nomM, tor, though killing a slave is no uncommon oc- ■ , . . ^ ^ 

urrence, the first. master is yet to be hung or doing so , ^ ^ ^ ^ y to dclJvef themselves up, 

n support of his authority. % teach as lave the al , ( d hand ^ f()pt t0 th ; 8outh v Wil , ,h v ,ho!ders' 

Thus slave law biots out from him | „ .. ; ., , „„ , ^,.^. rA ^ ly xnyfar fo tlu . 



in excited to uneonvroutu » t -rv ■! property.'- Whips, chains,.hrandiDg-irons; all the inflie 

- -itcli to the back of the other ith h-r gieate.v j wh j t . h - malice or ra g e : ca n invent, are within th 
:, r*th from twenty to fifty blo« s, and the* wouk. | 
,. 8 repetition of it to ascertain its mildness. . 
• u t some of those floggings were applied by a mor 
.'wefful arm than that of the mistress; and the mark 



11 .arm "* — ■ . " — r 

,Yi .cars were visible upon the slave s neck and tact ifj a crime . . , ftus slave law p W B ou, iron. «.«. I p ^ ^ B g r , Mlv an ., benrvoleilth 

■ :« m th e ante 1 was first committed, to the day otm. t one dash , God's written word -Does practice moldy ; ^ « t ^ j,^ nothing to fea'r? T be 

ad .to my heart mex ! h e severity of law? Took at the daily and hourly se F . ? ■ 



leasve. My senses have conveyed to my _ ( 11C scvclllJ ut 1B> , .-. ~ > — . 

, =sib'.e feeling* yf aiogvwt a.id abhorrence for such a 1^ 1[)n of husband and wife, par< nt and child, yes, 

- -• • ,«;. J K w .*.u nnon rational' huma.. 1 rtcnh , T ond ; „, aIU x i lot tikae place under the great 

American siave-trade, a trade whose favorite mode of 



i^de of discipline or.punishmeiit upon rational humai. 

Heicgs- 



slaveholders 

hate the -free labor of the North. They are ,ealous of 
our agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing pros- 
perity, our increasing w ealth, our free institutions.. 
a iraue ^^'^lo^e uxv-ukaub ltju^it: ui ( e - j . , 5 ^ 

. " x ■■ . . 1 , . i With all their bluster of chivalry, thev are neither non- 

sale is . 'at auction, m lots t6 suit the purchaser.' Are[ d " 1 ■ " 

, the cruel inflictions necessary to inspiu that fear which ' -tnorjust. II 1-kos be annexed we i f d espect no 

iD'feSfi OF THE NORTHERN AND EASr-j the raight work ofhope, in exciting to ^ justice or mercy at their hands man they hav 0 

' ?l the whole of that labor, which produces the whole bf *pwn t0 ^ ^ tad ,• , 

, .,' . . . . • . . 1 The most momentous question wnica lias ever oern 

the tobacco crop, and the sugar crop, and the . boastee ■ \ 

. ■ ' ■ , rp, , hrourht helon" the nation- since the th elaration of mde- 

cotton -crop, ot unfrequent occurrence / Then they an , - 
, . • ... •» ■ xx. 1 ' 1 ,i u * . • nvndance, is now presented. Shall the voice ot the 

the more terrible when they do occur. Is the brunt 01 . 1 1 " .' , , p. , 

- j . • a. • - « .1 I t'nited States he-given for hbenv or shivery? Early 

imperious temper, and unbridled passion, which the . 6 - ^ 

Slaves endure, a light affair? Remember the bowie * " the next sess.-n ot Congress the Texan Cons.uution 
knife horrors between the whites themselves, will j -be presente d for ratification or rejeet.on. \\ hether 

. - - I i 1 l.i , U.,H l.o v-.. ■•;.»! nv r.-.ior-l-r'il (Inrif.nfk on inO Vi.U'H (it 



0 TFE FRIENW^ KReS INSTITUTIONS 

N AND EAS' 
SUBJECT OF 



CJN 



:\*TiOIN ON THE 
TEXAS. 



3 L-T.OW CITIZENS, 

The Texas question is yet undhcided. Tha M 
■ - so far as it is of any importance to the United 
0. Mexico, or mankind, is not whether the peo- 
;S "arc to inhabit that vast territory are to be coii- 



, ' % ^"S^^T^i^^ pSS^hSth" t ;ems;'and"that" between thes I ' shall be ratified or rejected depends on the votes of 

-^^ amc whiles, whom law itself is unable to restrain fron ! - ^» ^ fr< « ^tes. U hat those votes w ,11 

* 4 - ^ - _ * 1 1 1 • J ! J .. J I- . . t i- . . n •* ■* ■«£ mi w11IK.1l !\n VP. 1 I - h< ill- 

butchering each other, and the slaves, there is no la 
whatever. • ' 



ft , but whether they are. to consist bf slaves and 
"V hoklers^whether those' fertile plains shal m all 
;S tin^reioico under the plough of tree laoor or 

^^^^t^^t^^l The:iimi t s.fthes,pagesdonot,er,iteve r nalh : 
>ia> B so »y»'j , i" . 1 1 .... tiivnArl into n mere I . o tltho of th<> sins and miseries w hich flow troi 



, will he derided by the coursi? pursued' by their t-w - 
ituents. If the people of the North raise, a strong and 



alt ot 
;uinea 



•ar voice of remonstrance, their representatives mu 

\ >bey. '.'■> .'..* '-' 

10 rapid! v consumaa py incu t V .., -•■»- • j " — «r?V . . '. ... a , l„ the subjoined report and resolutions an attempt 1 

• " } ..,„hlir shall be turned into a mere l s ; oa to a tithe of the sms and miseries which now troi . ' . • .. , .,». 

r present republic snail oe iuin siou o ^ - ,,ade to show what indeed admits ot no dispute, that 

. ♦,' W,. r . rnthesuuolv. The question is. t he accursed system ot Southern oppression. &« , ,, 

u-^«mJnat;«n«. and nature shrinks froi i • xas is not annexed, much 1- ss Us naver.v, and Iha 

i <e true way to defeat the wicked design of the sluv 



K«tber in order to fortify the present most unnght- 
.',,;*P«w.,r of our eluvehokh rs, both over their s.avcs 
li if, p..oolc of the free states^slavery shal! he crea- 

| t ,-nct ».oon- 



-rroans with its abominations, and nature shrinks froi 
the recital of them. .■'.». 

Yet this is. a svste'm' which the brazen, ctlront ery 



•ile ol trie tree sia.w.-&, »w.»v.j - , ., , . , . 1 » 

1 L otirseiVes do it, - over a vast coun- slaveholders calls on us not merely , to lolerat^ but 



tod anew,- 

, where Mexico had abolished it. 

Abetter this or that mode of annexation is const.tu- 
or uot -will violate our treaties with Mexico 
'V^Sukad us into war or not,-though thes, are 



loldejcs is to lay immediately before Congressman over 
heiniing expression of the \\ili of the people. Ever 
a into whose hands these pages mat fall is earnest 
quested to give all the aid in his qowei- by sigmn 
nc 'dating and forwarding renions' ranees. 
Fellow citizens ! now is the lime for action. Tlu 



extend and perpetuate, in the vast territory of Texas 

Be it as they claim,- that -we have nothing to do w 1 
slavery among them, except to be bloodhounds on th- , 

»e are ticks' of fugitives from labor. ' Be it, that the. const! j 

" " V', t abd P^-haps not yet irrevocably] t utio n binds as to be deaf to. the affecting appeals of th ! I M >orth can send to t ongrvss the names of mor. 
££i feJare compurativriy insigni.fi- ' slave , to be blind-to his fetters and the scars of theW, i hap a million voters agamst the anne*atfcn of any 
l! Jluc l : -' ; • , deendeepiy discussed. The slave- ; on his back. Be it, that the United States' constitution ! ...ore slavery.; Use all your efforts, and doubt not they 
.nt, ittuj u.a _ * - l/ tUn A„rvoii«nts of slavery ! nu i|-.i'j. s 0UE conscienct 9 and religion. , - ill be successful. Have confidence in the country. 

Yet we will see, and w- will sp- ak when the ques ! Have faith in God. 
lion comes shall we be accessory to the crime btj We conclude in the Words of the venerated Channin 



IdE-a have carried many of the opponents of slavery | 
' p- em on' these' questions, acting with apparent 
on their old principle of *«, an, c— 



ti ir r 'd nrinciiue ot mnne ana m/«(/»w. |Uon comes, sn.ui y- ou™ u ,j - - . ,. . 

- ; on their 01 I t S tiK, the all 1 8prca ding, fostering, and perpetuating sli.v. ry in a new "Every, principle of our government and rehg.o 
,c't these, questions pass 1 _ - A. _. % condemns slavery. The spirit of our aae condemns it 



ill' i llUlOt.wm' V „ ' 

P r,,ant one remains, that to which we have reterreu 
^ The fi hiv.d.olbers,-whose, from first to last, 
, . ^euio^aunexation is,-have thus far cunningly 
• ai^jon almostfwhollyaway fron, that issue. 

£ u - :e the utmost|address to complete their ne- 
, '-',-;,-,;t without raising it.. But it is the real 



HOI 11,1 * 

8ilcU t!y or vocally, for sveal or for woe, we, by 
. ,, ; t ives.at Washington, must soon dec.de. 

11 Jh-tWne tenths of iho slaveholders themsolvea 



j i ondemns slavery. The spirit of our age condemns it 
This is the question now before the nation, and to be j The decre. of th. civi ized w-.rld has gon< out' agains 
decided at the next session of Congress. Texas has I it. England has abo ished it. France and Denmarl 
now formed a constitution, which sustains slavery and , meditate its abolition. The chain is fa ling from th 
makes its abolition almost impracticable. This const'.- : serf in Russia. In the whole circuit of civiliztd no 
lution she now offers to our Congress to ratify, thkt she tions, with the single exception of the United States 

not a voice is lifted up in defence ofislavery. All 1I1 
great names in legislati n and religion are against it.l 
The most enduring reputations of our times have bee 
won by resisting it. Recall tin great'weu.of this a 



lf a V f.^ialkd by any. thing yet done, may become a star in our constellation Are the peo- 



pie' of the North prepared to admit her? Are they 
ready to sanction slavery atld the slave-trade, with all 
their horrors, to an unknown extent, now and for fulure 




,„ ,„s. g . nation, and be «h,y philosopher, j|M» - 

fc ""he ? ri" "i *fc 

„5Sn one solemn Mtimonv agnins slaver)-. And 
, thi an" go in which a free ami chnsUan people . ha I 
l«b Welv rosol.o to extend ami p rpetna.e tho ev.l 



With (he evidences, continually becoming d< vetop* 
of the Chanel taking p'ace among people ah par- 
ties in the land, on the subject of Slavery before him a 
mar must, be worse than mad to ask-'-'What have the 
abolitionists done?" Parties of almost every na^ne are 
coming out with the met ultra doctrines ot Liberty 
Party abolitionists. Ft has Ions; been our opmjon* *a 
if the. Liberty Party did not ever reach the ten* of gov- 
ernment, it would be' because the other parties wot>>d 



aboil its triumphant success. 

Resolutions of the dominating Whig Convention o; 
Lorain Cotm'y, O. 

'Stesohd Tiat the great truth, ***** all men are? 
born equal and have certain inaiianable rights amcrg 
these are life M and the pursuit of bupp-ness, » a 
Mf-evident truth, upon which our revolution w as turn- 
ed and one which was cwmed and blessed ot Heaver, 
dt: ' . . ■ i j Ri-if&h nnnressiom establish- 



ed, anc one vnwun 7"*° - -y 

in cede, mini: tl is land horn British oppress.' on, K statolish- 

•• name it :cng the r.a- 



M™^^«" 0f ""^ : Pi i: * &«oon ,. S - 8 — Acr, <he . 

Lite the .corn, indignation and abhorrence of the- folldwtng rescluto ns adopted by whig and f } h> 

fc£r nbXlfoftheW.Ueefor Massachusetts * the state of Ohio, from the ^ o/m , That :he departure from th, greats , 

SAMUEL E SEWALL, C7,««. Herald We wouU like to comment on thc loraia , ion of the Ce,n S ,tm.cn ot me Limed Stat, 




Euzni Wkiufr, .lux- Secretary 

THF. NEW 3 KSEY 

FREEMAN. 

uWPNTOiN .NOVEMBER 



1 R i;' 



irfOVir.! 



?'rlaims.of man', cannot be ifhv-o t< 
,d ; and religion feavuiol flourish o 
minuit'-wife: Hag ; *' 



™ the departure from this great trut h in 
the formation of the Cons'itmicn of the United States 
by which the owner of slaves has bestowed upon hap 
political pov or in the administration of L. S. Govern- 
ment, not enioyed by Other men, as brought upon this . 
I na'ion all the calamities it has suffered, and >3 often 
threatened, and now ihrca.ens its ver> existence,. . 

Resolved, That at the time of the formation of tha 
constitution of the. United Suites, s avety, having beer. 
God and the of man, m excluded forever.fr. m thc North-western ™<^ ™ 

to republican institutions and to the so limited that it Was expected soon to ceas,. and no 
— ~» d,ngerwa, apprehended fr.m it but now it has becor,., 
so extended by the purchase of Louisiana and Florte a 
that it controls at its *iU the legislation of th'e eouury 
and excludes from the most iirportan cff.ces of the gov- 
ernment, all tW who will not bow down and worship 



tieinoci am. <.uii> fcf>«»iv~~ - 

Cincinnati Herald. We woutf like to commen- on 
Vm, with other pre* .eediugs of iike t chamcter among 
Politicians and Ecctesia^s^t length; but have nether 
irac nor space, and give th-m to oar readers just as 

Resolutions .of the Fortage v.oun.y i^' 0 

«Resolml t That we be iete slavery to be alike re- 
.„..„,.,,; to the. m of God and thc fiyhts of man, in Us 
J % ; , v . i ..,. hostile to republican institutions and to the 
!p-.rc and peace of the country; we are ready in ail 
, „nerwn'Tsto 'oppose its dsteUtim and labor for Us 

1 ' * 1 ... !_ c «P 4l-rt am*nf>J3*f7tPi 



:,^e;'es F eilly.wearemfav ur ot the mm^ate 
gl i rtv , c tll( . factions are to h- held in this of a 0 n<,rM t of its «,u^6fed power to abolhsh 

Mr^dit ^bop^'^ < very li'r.erty man - ill b< , J .p?^^/ ^Coto^a,^ the Temtones 

I;.:;;;;;-:;, ^^4;;^ ^ ^^^^ r ^ F T^e^, ThattheboW^desitisnow^kingt 

S£i — ! ^ priU,,i5 S nferSbv the people cxfSt borders and strengthen its P ower by amtexi, 

A ^ frbW the Poll, ee^ th^ ^ ^^^^^^S ^ UStSn T-,as .0 this Luion, in violate of the .Constitutor 1 , 



mv nwav from tin. Poll, becftus, there ,s , ^ ( , 30 /„,/ ) That Ute powers comexcu p ^ 

' L ' T is much to be gained by being ; i>fthe Uniu>d States open thc Geneva government 

£35 VI thnos; -rhc price of liberty » Eiem- , ; fe to . proroole the gene-re I welfare and secure 

he who ,nli^ in the e.use of fceedo, ; , , ^ ^ have beet most gro* ty pervertec 
I fi'S r.^ki ^ for the enemies of men . J° aM llf , 1;lV ery; that it is the duly of c.toe* 



v r T iieiu « ; , — rrf ■<: • ..■ ..... « 

Rlu ; t (pel no timetoVeep, foi the enem.es : ot mn 
6 l..«, not; we havi neither time nor space tor apnea 
i0 i n t& lie f^bfnl >-ext Tu'-lay, and shall therefor- 
Wlghri*> duties of abolitionists on that dilt , to be set 
tied between them end their consciences, am. trust a 
<HM m their accotmtabiUty and prove laithftih 

"Tkkas 'theMaiicn Review, of the 17 ull., stat 
liatGen. Sam. Houston, in his late address to the , 



in 
the 
verted to 

S ,e stmport of slavery; that it is the duty of Citizens of 
\ f,ee Spates to resist the constant encroachments of 
^'slavery upon their own rights; and to entrust polecat 
,ou er » no man who xbttl not resist them. 
.' «j{ eM krd, That the wvs • f this State wnich make 



I'AHIIU li£J o - . 

Texas to this Union, in violation of the .Consotuticn c . 
thei Unued Sta.es, and the plighted faith and honor oi 
nation and its unceasing and murderous efiorts to c r- 
throw the fre. dom of speech and the press, proclaim in, 
language not to be misunderstood, that slavery »ust e»- 
ther be destroyed or itwui des ttcy il e htatics oi «.v 
country. ",/«» 

Resolved, That to this day we pledge our lives, our 



t Gen. Sain. Houston^ in his lateness to t ; , . ^ M for'^ 

S cfthnt County on the. ^/f;^.^, ^ft^ That the 



v.'lv.io y > with Mexico," asserted that "every town 
Tevi'.Sj whose population ' amounted to five hundr 
s ou!s, contains at least two hunderd loafers,'' and 0. 
Worses the chsrgeahat »* a»o«w« «, 

From the. Cincinnatti Herald 

-N!iVEU GIVE UP." 
■ -lAiiy one w'^o- has watched the cours» of events to: j , 
SOtoo years past, if he be a believer in- Divine Prox 
cannot •crape thc conviction that through tl 
workings of that Almighty Agency the Au-nctm p- ; 
»lg are to be permit led to sleep no more over the ev 
„„d peril, ofslaven. -tU things se-m to be so arran 

! as to Force the subject upon their attention ara-n 

the Evil, and ^dually to bring the public mmd to tl 
.Vrn resolve that it must be extinguished. Amoi 
Ujeso eyeWs *« n^e the anexationof Texas, the hrrai 
din. of Captain Walker, the imprisionment of l orr 

• • 1 rVT„„- Vorlr IhP. PSC&I 



, v ..,C;J., W c». /ft C »ii« ^«c W ^ ^'-fortunes and our sacreo bono o a. ve ce... 
•' ' rr^ iro^ vnntst in tktnselves, and ut- tiohaUy for ih destruction ot slavery • 

^ t 2 Jfte ^ and o«M Resold That we deeply sympathise wuh tc: 

" ^ ^ ^'Tf^ f 1 fp. nd s ef frerdom in the slave States, and espec. 

, ( , ; aml Auction of Peter j with Casius M." day, th- bold and fearless chap, 

' J^^rlton v^n n a d Mordecai Thorr.as, 0 f liberty who are labouring to redeem the 

¥ ^ ^ there countryme ^oppre^; 



>nt of these men in a Virginia jail, the trial of them 
k ntvtcnde.l offences comnuttcd within the territory of 



VeS UU Ult.lC tuumij"" 

ilco/rcrf, That we have no sympathy with any mai 
be he Whi.. or Dmocrat, live North or South, shojavaui 



bnt it must go up again. 

aNW never must anti-slavery men abandon a single ^ unalit ,. ;ible determination to use every — , v , nlDg .Nov. It) by «JT. 
'post they have taken. Almost every free State in the ^ ^ m ^ <lischv ^ ( a his pfficial duties io 6«»S | |tou> auc f*T^» W ' 

Uwon, has maia^ncd a fierce battle fo r ^di 3 cuss.on. j 



. 1, 1 „«;.r, ■■«•.! comndtt-d with n the territory 01 he he win, or -jm.uai,^^-— 
* . Z^rrk* of our citizens m<l the extension W perfection of slavery-or to* 0 

vrcjo- av.uonmtn'~paiiojou . a j^^/ped, That the Union 'of these States- is ='c •• 

. 0 ! sarv t 0 the 'well-being of both bond and free, and ■ m 
Resolutions of the Portage County Democratic Con- - 1. 

-ntion. ! EesoJwd, That the laws of this State which make 

i a7 s , , n,., ; n ^ „ r inion of this Convention | distinc-ion on account of color, are an aborning r. 
I ■ ° fth ' ^ iie^ght of heaven and ah good men, and ought .0 I 

[iT^il Z JL and en odious stain «?ou | i mme diaiely and nncondittionally repealed. 
! » u r national honor. j From the Cort/and True Am-rican. 

1 --Rosohed, That we as Northern freemen are in du- \ D-R-U-N-K. 
j v bound thus publicly to express our vncomprornim j t't\Yhatha s Alcohol don- to me?" I answer: 
(rMility to an'mstMvtiov fraveht icith so much mj fsftcf : ^-ei sho . s has forced my toes j 
4 total discard of individual ^ ^^ ,C L ] And ma de m. friends my bitter toes: 

And on my head rained showr.rs of blows ; 
TV eehts r dii{?ed my gold half Joes; 
And caused my wife her fc aviest woea ; 
With hogs in gutters made me dose— 
T ipped up my heels • n winters' snows j 
And kept m dure until 1 froze ; 
So poor and ragged made my c othes. 
That I'm just fit to scan the crows ; 
With many ills the Devil kn- ws. 
These truths m whole appearance shows— 
But should you doubt it view my r.cse. 

J Michael Cassio. 

' A TEMPERANCE CONCERT 
will be held in the Free Church in Boonton c '. k 
evening Nov. 10 by Mr. Brown, assisted by M 



fling 01 v,i|>i«.« .......... i _ - 

thed^mte between Virginia and New fork, the esqp, ^ ^ { ,„ ; ,, t0 „. VJ „„„ 

ami pursuit of the seventy fugitiveslaves from Mardan ■ ^ ^ r , pro: ,ch upon our conion counuy . , 
^-ith the bloody struggle which ended in the recapture ; UResoI . t)e<h That inonler the more effectually to carry | 
nf . larcre portion of them, the Parkersburg outrage ,and . out aml t in practical operation our pr.ncipl. s upon 
t SionLid destruction of a Free Pre SS in Km uc and impo-f.n, subject, u, pledje ovrsele 

The truth is, with the exception of the terrible con- ' ^ DsiHOcrn(ic party of our county to male use oj 
flWions which are occurring from time to time, am : , ^ ^ ^lly in onr power io ^comphsh the 
SHoslwar with Mexico, there -i, .scarcely ; J ^ o/ slavery in tl. United Stole* and 

' event of importance to be rec rded, «inch is no Mnesandespecialy toc^ the repeat of all M, 

connected with Slavery in such a way as to compel j ^ •„ 0k ; 0 impos ^ any distinct^ whatever 

the People to see its abominations. j between lhe co l 0 red and Ac free nh te poptdatwn oj im 

"Never give up,'-' then, is our motto.- v\ hen Prov • I ^ 
id, nee is so manifestly co-operating with the . fforts of I uJUao}ved that, regarding the strict observ,nce oi 
' Philanthropists, wbv should they grow disheartened ^ Us ln the light of our our imperative duty 

True a'Free Press has been put down in Lexington, 



we mS» pie eye o-.r.vc/res /o support no man for Repre- 
sentative, to the State Legislature, who will not avow his 
firm ami unalouable determination to use every honor 



TIfE ANTI SLAVERY ALMANAC, 

for 1846, is just: published b FINCH & WEED, 1 ? : 
Nassau Street New York, and for sai ! by tUem, whole- 
sal? and retail. Th-y are also for sab ai the office of 
■ . Fr emaa in Boonton. 

Every anti slavery man in the State should c nsti u: 
himself an agent for the sab and distribution of this AI 
manac. Let thisb-j done wiuiout delay. 



tt i 1. ij] tl < 1 it 4s. 

Don' 1 bill the Birds — .ne littla Oirds 

That sing about your door, 
Soon as the joyous spring has come, 

And the chilling storms are o'er, 
The little birds, how sweet they sing 

0, let them joyous live ? 
And never seek to take the life 

Which you can never give. 

Don't kill the birds — the little birds, 

Thai play among the trees ; 
'Twould' iaaXi he ^arth a chee less place, 

Should >ve dispense with these. 
The litt.e birds, how fond they play ! 

Do not disturb their sport ; 
But let ihem warble forth their songs 

Till winter cuts them short. 

Don T t kill the birds — the happy birds 

That bless the field and grove ; 
So innocent to look upon 

They claim our warmest love, 
The happv" birds — t >e /unefull birds 

How pleasant 'tis to see; 
No spot can be a chearless place 

Where'er their presence be 

STATE MEETING*. 

Fhe QtMrrterly neeting >f the ew ,Ter»e\ 
\ti*i Slavery S »cieiy will be h Id on VVVd 
iesday, the 12 day of Vqv inst , in Pater 
son at 11 o'clock A. M. 

Me'-* in?-? wilt be held in the afternoon 
and evening. 
Nov, 1 1845 

A H Free ma a Sec. 



A 1 C«i3dwel] on Wt dsegday 22,nd Oct., John Grimes 
oi Boonton to Sarah E Orton of the former place. . 



DITD 

At Boonton, on Mom a> be 2!)th Oct. Henry Fia- 
n y, son of the R-v. Henry Belden, of c repression of 
the brain -aue-d by a tall from a ch lir, on the saturda . 
ev 'oing previous, aged 3y>*ars and 3 months. 

A Fact to *e Po <d<£hed. Ah inteligent 
friend, recently irom New Orleans, has in- 
heres* ied us not a little in ijivin^ a relation 

•f the state of feeling at theSouth. respect- 
ing t lie political .u>vement of Yholitionists 
• lie sort!; This friend was preaent at 
n Democratic gathering just, before the 
election .ast fall, at which «.ov. Brown 
tde t speec'i. In his speecli he reviewed 

le history --of the Vnti Slavery' movement j 
.-mi trs rise wiili astonishing .accuracy and 
trecision. lie said i li.i trit he movement up 
the period of the formation of a di*- : 

ii. t p^irty for the overthr -,w of slaver\ 

M sen'ed ti thing to excite the -smallest a j>- 1 .Th» Rev. A. A. Pholps of Boston'is winged as a- 

,'ehension. JUt f ■ nri that momen t ii a, \ - ^ ^itor of % Anti Slavery Reporter.. The 
, . , ■ porter is an excellent paper published monthly at 

71 a v a :pe t nost Inreafnnn and po/te - \ ? Xassau sfreet N . Y , at $ ^ ft ^ fcr a 

»nd to crash the movemeni he S«l»' j , py . 5 copies to one address for $ 2.00 10' copies $ 

le South must unite Let the \'orther<! i 3 fSO- and 50 copias for $',12vj0. subctfptions will bo 

eu remember this fact when he »is dis - " :rivf ' d a V- his office - 

1 >»el elittle .he effect of Liberty part} ; 

action. [Lib Inteligencer. ! 



a Wi-iLkVVW TRACTS. The following 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this ©Mice, by the Lib- 
erty Association. 

'Condition of Living. 
The causa 'of Hard limes. 
Influence of Slave power 
One more appeal to Christians-fit. Churches'. 
Bible Polities. 

Jewish Servitude. ' '• 

Smith k Clarkson. 
Persons held to service. 
Loyal National Repeal Association. 
Duti<-sand Dignities of American Freemen. . 
Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. S. 
Testimony of a Southern Witness. C/M. Clay. 
The lawlessness of slavery*. 
Poems oh S/avery by Longfellow. 
The Missouri Compromise. 
Smiths Constitutional Argument. 
Two cents Postage . 

Address to'thepeoplc of Kentucky by C. *M. 



Tlie American ; ard Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
made"peparations to do a good work for liberty 



MORRIS COUNTY CONVENTION 

Madison Oct 15th 1845. 

At a na^et'iig of citizens of dorris ( 'ounty 
hold at. VI,. Keep's Long ftomii in Madison 
for the purpose >f no niriatina County offi- 
cers for tlv ensuing ejection Mr ^. A on. lit 
was railed to the chair & Daniel fjeliart 
.vi< ip'>oiated •^•cre arv. 

The meting vva- >p ned with prayer »y 
Rev Henry Belden 

jThft ueecnig then aJopt^d the fplluwuig 
ticket, 

LIBERTY TICKET. 

i^or Assembly, 
Jacob L. Brotherton, 
Benianain B. Griswold, 
John Grimes 
Henry R. Hedge* , 

For Sheriffs 
Charles 3. Morris, 

For Coroners, 

John Grannis, 
William Ha naway 
Jn.ncs B. Grimes. 



j Co eticut. The general n^llt, of Town j 

i .leetious. in the " .and pi steady Habits, 
i- most chewing. Mfosl of the usnaldou!^ 
ful towns fleeted Whig Offi.vrs but that, i-j 

.fa secondary moment M.ne than ihre j 
frm th&oftke Towns in the State have pretty] 

e tat ly. footed no. to he nee th sale of I -1 
t<).cicatin<; Liqoirs \mong these'aie SarT- 
; >rd .Vew ilaven, Vorwich iqd Bridgeport 
the t four 1 ! rgest owns, in the State >1i,i- 
d e>ovvn is ihe largest own in which Rii 
prevailed md in Litchfield neither tick 
was elected. «n the smaller towns, the 
Temperance ('ornmissi »ners are pntty g;< M :- 
fr.illv clmsen W'e think there will hardly 
he fortv Towns in the State in which a 

■ op pf the \rd nt" wi.'l b<- / c:\Uy sold.ai 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

M yron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened an 
omce for the sale of An i Slavery Uoi.ks. Posr.phlets- 
T>acts &"c. at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 

well patronized. 

MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH CuURTS 
I \ MASKED, is' th^ title" of a Book by Ike Rev. 
. -orgc Bourne, exposing some of the ihiqnifuns pro- 
dings of Ecclesiastical bodies m the Protectant 
-.arch. It should be read by every !io;:v. 
For sale At this ofBcO, price Sl'cents. 



>r t!i? close of tiie preseni year 
one, Connecticut ! 



Nobly 



:.iJKiRrY.---The l: Razor Strop mnn v says — " Wh , 
[first go ac^uain'-'id with strong drink ii promised , 
dogtpat v.hings for mi. It promised m liberty- — and 

tiherty. 1 and th • liberty .0 see my toes poke ou' 
of my boots— -the water had the ib >rty lo go in a* m 
toes and nome o<i< at my heels my knees had liber . 
o 'in out of my ;ian's ■ my elbows had the liberty o 
com.- out of :nv oat— -I hid th>> liberty to lift up the 
the crown of my bat and scratch my head withou' 
pulling offmy hat. Not only liberty 1 got, but I go' 
nusii-. When I walk 'd along on a windy day, the 
the erb wn of 

A 11 vn'i 51 l'pp^rty lap, 
Ani .Su vvi.iJ ^hisil-e hpw Jo y.o» do.' 

Wia ngh'. vo'.lng -io-'s' Th inhabitants of Handyer 
Township in Ehis ! >aa f voted la|S %pr ig o Tax Dis 
till r-*« .0 tne ix. in. of .h "la v. This vote has shut up 
all th distil' -ri >s in he luwn. W hope to hear of more 
.uc • t ug aid .v.- hop iil«o ) §ce the rue brought 
n j *xir'c.'se apbh ii mjrai subjebtb 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CMltROH AC- 
riO\Is a -m.! beck published by. JOB.. 'KKP 
Pastor of a Congr -gational C'n..Tch In Ohio. It rhonld 
be read by every body. A few copies for ".sale at thd 
Freeman Office; Boonton, N. J. 

ANTI SLAVERY B00H3 For sale nt the Office of 
he Freeman, Boomon, N. J- 



LIBERTY MINSTREL* 

A e copies of Cl rk'- Like.t) M imit I af* .for 
sa e at hi offi •. 

T is is sup : ior t ey • hing 'f he kind we hive 
i, u and h id be in t e ioss^^Sob of a* ety<oie hat 
i ves oid usi , A loves 1 1 nake • good u-e •>! it. 
Price, 44 c tits. H 



HiontOfi Yax'riugtoii T:mpeninci B nev- 
ole it Society^ — meets every Monday eve 
ning in the Free Church John axtkld, 
President, Fredrick Stone, Secretary. 

8- niton Liberty Assoeiattori, — meets the 
first Friday evening of every mom 
M. iivarttt, J Resident, (J. B. A orris. See. 




vol. 2. 

THE FREEMAN 

IB BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
JJoon'on, Morris Cour.ty, New Jersey. 

TERM S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollar*. 
All communications must be post paid. 



Agrippa Hull. 

It the villiage af Stockbridge, Mass., livei t black 
MM by the name of Agrippa Hall, who served in the 
ItyrolatiMtry w ar. At the eleae of it he was honcrably 
discharged, in teatimoay of which he chows a eirtifteste 
algned by General Washington He was for same years 
the aerrant af Gen. Koseiusea, of wkeae g-aereu* and 



BOOTOW, DECEMBKR 9a 1845. 

JVecks — Ike glaring Infamy and injust- 
ice of Negro Traders, escaping with Im- 
punity under t!ie American Flag. 

' 1 deem it mv duty to suggest, that the land is not 
wholly free from the contaminations of a traffic at wich 
every feeling of humanity must revolt: I mean the Af- 
rican slave trade. At the moment v hen God in his 
mercy, has blessed the world with univer- 
sal peace, there is reason to fear, that to the disgrace 
of the Christian name and character, new efforts arc 
making for the extension of the trade, by subjects and 



NO. ' 

board the Boston sloop of war, until he could examine 
into the case. ^ 

The examination nas proceeded to a great length and 
and I have given to it my persona! attention and attend- 
ance; and 1 must say it has developed a combination of 
persons and of mear s to carry on this infamous trafic to 
the dishonor of our Hag, and of all three Dations, Eng- 
land; Brazil, and the United Slates." — American Min- 
is! n- to the secretory of state* 

He expresses the opibion that if the people of the V - 
nited States knew the extent to which th? worst of pi- 
racies is conducted under their flirg, and by *e ssela 



citizens of Christian Staics, in whose hearts no senti- j aunched and owned in their free Northern waters, a 
ments of justice r ?. ; «!s,and over vhom neither the fear law would be passed at the. very next session of Cun- 



of God nor of man excrsis°s a control. In the sigh: 
"f oar law the aim an slave trader is a pirate and a f< Ion, 
and in th* Sight of I'»jv n an of wi.it far beyond *i : 
ordinary depths of human guilt. 

If there be within the extent ••'our knowledge or in 



gress, forbidding ail trade with the coast cf Africa. 

He says moreover, that every conscientious Americas 
ship owner n>»y be given tc understand that if he semis 
his verse! to this port w ith instruction* or peimiss-ko t* 
the captain to gel her chartered for the coast of Africa 
she v i l be sure tc be engaged directly or indirectly iu 
the slave trade; either as a tender to other s-Iaveis «r 
herself to carry the dreadful cargo of miserable Africa!.. 
American merchants here, to whom the American cap- 
tains coHS'gn, knowingly aid and abet the slave trade,, 
by chartering (he vessels so consigned to them for the 



smr.ane character he. speak* with lore and admoraUon. 

Agrirra has an uncommonly fne head, in* w r«- ; ?«eiK« **J fWtidpati^ in thit ttoff.c, it is our duly to 
markahlf f. r bio excellent anderstaRdipg »ad gaod char- ; it'Anmek and to do tur »tmo»l to extirpate and dsi- J 
se'.er. By hi? industry he has become possessed of • j >r*y it. 

KUble farm, which at the age cf 78, he cultivates ; f T j S j» 0 T f IT THAT THE LAND OF THE 
Eftfcffc l^i «t«iT)ent for hi* piety, »nd those who ! pj LC ,j n: . I3 tJhM;Ll) BEAR THE SHAME 

Lftbftrd him ape*k at conference mestiBgi,. which • LONGER." vhbster^s fl'jn.outh Speech Atimmodo,- coast of Africa, at a much higher "rate per month tha* 
|e is in the habit cf attending with hiswHt^r^ ghU»s, | • • jj can be go! ifasnl elawhera; not indeed for anyihog thai 

A reeeatcill upon the A uerienn Minister to B.a/'.i, | appears on the- face of the charter party, i© be Wigaee* 
Hon Henry A V. .sr- of Virg n * furnishes material m j in the slave trade, but not the less sure for that, on pwfc 
iaets, *nd ruel for reflection, which I feel disposed to pose to prosecute the trade of blood, 
lay before the. readers of the Evangelist, or any tod} j American houjes, I repeat it are the age nut or medium 
else that has a rnind thereto'. 1 found him in the fine j through « hich American brigs and berquc-s are chartered 
house he has taken in ilu norllnv st part of the city, a j for the coast of Africa to Manuel Pinto da ca- fl a 

lon» way out of to«n, in the subuib called Eagentvolho. ! notorious great slave merchant of Kic de Janeiro, 

After making a few profitable trips with alaves on 



♦ay thai in 'prty« he is drstingu-shed for fertor and el- 
oquence, pecaiiararigir.ality and rfchae« oflsaguf^ 

The arcutea «»"d wisdom of bis viev.a upon A<*1 
Bmjeet0,attd the wit and fore- of nts illuatr* tic-pa, 
make his eenvereatiaa so impressive that y. a remember 
w h«t he has sa.d long after you bare parVd from him. 

Daring » B 'Bterview of perhaps hott an f.»t«r, I v *s 
•a struck with his r? marks, that &a eocntas he left me I j It is favorably located for the quiet and health of an in- 
wrote do* a hi« aery words, -without any * te/»:ie.i or j tefesting fs.mil v of six children, one of them a little babe 
embleaaisbmeat. \^ 9T * * Rr«zilian. They are busy enough in stadias 

When I eapreased ta *jrippal r»y tpiaien .open th« i»sjd past time within the ample and shaded limits of the 
(subject of prejudice igaihat color, he said, "When j enclosure, yet *ot s^ but that the older oaes often sigh 
fmire is a l!«r.-k cf sher P , and acme black OSes amors j for thf " ocie; J Mlf 9 '^es ofhoms, and wish themaalvea 
th m, I tlwaj a think that if they behave well, th- * , , ? !,,a th?Te 

httt good a right to be f d es the white on?5. God. Althcugh irfthout a letter of introduction I met with 
will rat tak what is cur color, but what Ism beca wt » *** a^,ble reception from Mr. Wise and an 

tenad«e> 1 he Alm r-t. m»'»e . 1 <«'or 3 . Ifwft-d immediate reply to'a'l my inquiries concerning the 
RauR with th. work, W*,.fi.S fat* with the tr ^" ni ri "' 1 Attorns, which waa the object 



Hit wetk* are all good. It is not the corer of the h ek, 
but what the book contains is /.he question. Mssy a 
good book hss dark coy. i:» Which ia the worst, ths 
thite'black ftif>n, or the ble^k white man?" 
I «On;e," tsidAg rippa, "v hea I wsw a serMst tc » 
gaa*.iem«» wl;o w»» aery averb^aring end haughty, we 

Both went to the can.* ehnwrh. One Sunday s. m- '!•:- 
te gentlemen by the name af Heynes preached. Whan 

tire came cut meeting my master said to me. " Well 

•Agrippa how- do von like nigger preaching? " 

: "Sir, " answered I, "he was half black sad half 

.white; I liked my half h"w did you like yours?" 

Upon, the assertion that the slave holders cannot a- 

/bolish slavery Agrippa said, "No one can say he is o_- 
blig-'d to do wrong. When the drunkard says he cae. 
So? live, without spirits, I tell him to take tewf>er»t<- 
things fo a v hile and see if he is not better. It is his 
will that is in the fault. There is 90 aeeeaity 
wrong. God never makes ua do wrong." 



of my call.' He has been vigorously prosecuting an in- 
»»ati^»tioa inte this ii fumous business, ever since he 
has bees ther^,and it is his statement tha" not less than f 4 



charter, they are g acrally sold to Lonaeca or the Okvi 
factors fu the coast of Africa, at Cabiuda and ei.;>-v. here, 
for three timfs the money they would bring foi lawful 
voyages. The Amerirnn house gets two & a half per 
cent, commission on the charter money; then thxvt k a 
half per cent, more if they guarantee it; men two a 
half percent, more if employed tc transmit the mUm to 
the owners in the United States. The EugliA broker^ 
house, Holkiik, H r rctman & co.. the' w hich they ac T 
complish these negotiations, gets a'so two &. a haliper 
cent. The vi sseis clear at the custom house for the 
coast of Africa, with slave drcks. shackles, water tanks,, 
and appnrtenr.nces, and with a cargo of trdent spirits, 



COO *!*y«s have Ives imported from Africa during the j powder, muskets, cotton goods, &c, and aomctinses 
last year, and o,000 sinea August last in American bot-j having both an American and Brazilian or 'Portugue>:« 
toms. He ^rrew olcxjoenl in expatiating upon the pros- j captain and crew. 



ta do 



From the N. Y. Evangelist 
letter from Brazil. 

Conference with the American Alinisf-cr. tlis 



tira'iai cf the .* mcrican f to the slave trade ( and! 
said his ebirf husin*ss whilt? here, had beer, to exsminr 
depoaitioe/j afld'patpdra and make inquisitions into the 1 
recent casas in which American m-rvl.antmen hai been 
eagaged in fts nefarious fr«»tTie and transmit the proof- 
to >V»«hie;ion; and that he h»d n ter spiked harder ir, 
his life before. He has .» large fojio vol urn* a good gar] 
of it closely written with copies of despatches on this 
subject to the department of slat", fiom which he r«n'l 
'■x'ree'a. to si ow his views oj on it, aud to make me ac- 
quainted with the names nnd i>\\ nersl ip of a number cf 
sessfd^from the Uiiited States, that have been and are 
still prosecuting this infernal traffic. 

Documents hcrev iih transmj ted willshon the na- 
turr, cohnictioBS, and .» tent of the African s'ave /rid/ 
nnbluthingly'carricd on by our citix< ns under our flag. 
It S.nsgrov 11 so ' old sml * . ba -\> no longer to »<hi 
a ma»k, even to .h •• I; t s if, I • tt .. and f no arc '»t 



closure respecting the Slaw Ttode-Uff- ac( l UB ' D * < 

e it ri 11 • wr 1 / Up»n mformf 

(irnry uf {ion Mr. lline-^C. rat Covne { f\ ■ , j j .... ; 

the Ti atl<.'—H-n&- it in thai ' A/writ am sh\ r, 

jfesponsifmity and Guilt, and sane Uien j • • * 



The onlj' medium of exchange among the Africans 
is in the form of goods, wares, and merchandise, by bar- 
ter; and that between the ag-nt there and the large deal- 
n rs in »!sveg, or in goods for that market, in this coun- 
•r",is in the form of bills on Brazil. The very ivory 
and other producis of Africa for export tre brought 
from the interior lo the coast cn the heads of the tie 
groes, who are themselves to be shipped as slaves. 

It is said there is hot a merchant nor dealer of uny 
soy cn this >>i.o : e coast, froiri P ; .ra to Rio Grande, en- J 
gagrd in the. trade between Brazil and Africa, who does, 
not, direcily or indirectly, participate in the slave trade - 

Nothing is io^t if t»vo out of five, trips succeed. 

And th'at trade has of la'.e rather increased perhaps 
as Rio de Janeiro, but increased to every province of 
Brazil. 

" Slave decks are no longer indispensable. ?he water 
, ' \ I in 1 or more tiers according to th* 

-.',■>.■!. fbre a.i.d aft, and ludi mats, spread o- 

' . {tf'tlwm , \i th la»t.i • :'i'ove;rieut,of fitting a slaver. 

. .- i-.-.v. at.ip — —in deed it is proved uu- 
-i • n>r*hat took the Montevideo, 

a ..\.ei.. hol ', .01.1 but two to seven he;:; : iO ship 



cargo of bCO>hv,s. Ti«? U* 1*W v .at,-r pipes i. KXTRACT OF A LETTER FOM A FKlExsD | 
hl>d and buried iijltLe sand of the beach; and the saves* * A . '*? 

the farinha. thejirked beef, the provisions and stores, & ! "We feel en'reniely desirous that something should be 
i-he water, are moved at a moment's warning in canoes done to arouse the public wind to the cause of humanity 
and launched to the vessel waiting at a distance of five j the coining winter. Thejpresent teems a favourable time 
Irtiuutes row from the shore — Hon. Mr. Witeto the '■. to make a:i impression, in this direction; the elements 
Secretary of Stale. | of political excitement are nearly quiescent, excepting 

Having discharged their goods, the medium of bar- [ so far as the subject of slavery is involved with them. 



trr, and laken^n board their closely packed living car 
goes, the ylmerrcan captain and crew , if they had them, 
are shipped on board a brig that has gone before to act 



But here there is no such thing as quietude iu the po- 
liticai staie; the great quostion of slavery, on the very 
broadest scale, is to come up afresh, if I mistake not, 



s their trader, and a Brazilian or portvgucse captain i th( , com ,; ug winter. The attention of the people of this 



and crew are supplied if they had them not; 

In the one case, the trader brings returns to Rio de 
Janeiro, either navigated by Americans, or w ith them 
as passengers, and not un'iepuentiy with some branded 
slaves for Fonseca in some capacity as passengers For 
aught that appears, she will have performed a lawful 
voyage, that is, having only waited upon the slavers, 
wiih some goods for purchase money of the slaves, and 
got them ready, and having then helped the slavers to a 
Brazilian or Portuguese crew, who, if taken by English 
cruisers, cannot be hung like Americans or subjects o* 
Great Britain. The bloody slaver then speeds her way 
through the'middle passage, 'slily lands her human cargo 
more dead than alive, at Cape Frio Mangaratiba or oth- 
er places along the coast of Brazil, and boldly runs into 
this port in ballast, and fits again for the'atrocious voyage. 

Mr. Wise has now in custody on bord the frigate 
Raman, two Afiican lads with Fonseca's brand upon 
them, that were broughtuto port as pretended passen- 
gers in an American brig, along^with Fonseca's agent, 
who ha* been in the brig up and down the African cost 
to contract for slaves, said American brig/acting as tend- 
er to 3 or 4, others immediately employed in exporting 
slaves, she was seized by the U. S. brig Bainbridge", 
on the charge of being engaged in the (slave trade; bu 
afterwards delivered up to the Brazilian authorities for 
judgment, who have, if I amgrightiy informed released 
the master and officers, whom Mr. Wise was desirous 
of sending for trial to the United States. 

There is a tale of blocdjind horror connected with 
this brig, to be in due time unfolded. It was given on 
oath, a few weeks ago, by aseamanof an other American 
brig, the Kentucky, that the first night after leaving the 
coast of Africa with a cargo of 650 blacks, a part of 
theta got loose from their manacles and rose on the crew. 
But being armed wiih muskets and cutlasses, the crew 
soon drove them below again, and killed a number by 
firing into them after they had cried for quarters. 
A tew days after, others of the survivers were condemn- 
ed, then to be hoisted up to the foreyard arm, chained to- 
gether, and shot dead. When two w. 



whole union must be turned to it ; and it is very clear 
to me that if abolitionists make sufficient exertions, and 
avail themselves in a proper manner of recent and pass- 
ing events, the anti-slavery sentiment, and feeling may 
he diffused to a wonderful extent, and much real pro- 
gress be affected. At such a time, when all things seem to 
invite us onward, when providence has prepared the 
way for bold and vigorous efforts to be made with of 
feet, shall we labor, or shall we be idle? The question 
appeals to every one who can read or speak to his 
neighbor, but especially to those who arc capable of pub- 
lic speaking. And I ask with an earnestness which but 
few subjects can excite in me, if we have not in our 
state the means of employing public lecturers to visit 
every neighborhood the ensuing winter. 

In my immediate vicinity, we are indeed few in name 
if not iu reality, though I am much mistaken if here 
in Sussex County, where no man who is not sworn to 
stick to the democratic party whether right or wrong, 
dares open his mouth, there might not be awakened by 
a suitable public speaker, an anti-slavery agitation that 
should tell heavily at the polls another year. 
Such a speaker would find in Deckertown a fewindivid 
uals who would welcome him with open hearts, acd 
stand by him in the public assembly. I had intended to 
present this subject to the State meeting at Patterson, 
if I could have been' there. I desire you through your 
paper or otherwise to inform me if any thiDg in this 
way can be affected by the State society. 

We have for several months past been doing an active 
business in the cause of temperance in this quarter, 
and are now about closing the season of frequent public' 
meetings 

In this business wc have no difficulty in enlisting the cler 
gy , who, we are thankful and happy to see do not set their 
faces against ull reforms. But in the cause of the poor 
degraded down-trodden slave, a cause that of all others 
most addresses itself to the feelings of humanity, we 
hear but faint and indistinct murmurs ; or find them un- 
der the mantle of some D. D., urging their apologies 
for a sin that is u organic.'''' But I will not trouble you 



ere taken out of. 

the hold chained together, of whom only one was to Ion S er on thia t0 P ic - 
die; to save the shackles, and to save time, they chopp- We are compelled to inform our friend that the 
ep off their victims foot at the ancle, let the leg loose. State society has no funds to pay an agent with, but if 

the Friends in his village can raise a little to pay the 



then run him up the yard arm, and finished by shoot.ng 
him. In this manner „ — i j a& _ , ° 



In this manner were mnrdered 4G men and cne expenses of a Lecturer we can send on a man to labor 
woman ) short time in his county: We trust our Friend will 

and fat If 8 Infrrnal busill(ss «• carried on eagerly j uot fail to be at the annua! meetiag in Jan. at Trenton, 
or ii rt * " V *f eV f ei '' a " d Americ an merchants, knowingly j where arrangements may perhaps be made to do the 
, panaer lor it; and make what gain they can by work we are gratified to find he is so ar.::ious to have 
such fltfertbh! pimping Mr. Wise has written his legal I accomplish^ 

opinion to Maxwell, Wright & co. on their par' in the t — 

bnsmess which the law of his country have declercd pi- ! FREE STATE RALLY AND TEXAS CHAIN 

racy, warning them and other American merchants a- [ BREAKER. 

gainst it, und.declareing his fixed purpose to see to iti This is the title of anew paper just started at Boston, 

that the laws of his country are enforced and the star- I to be continued until the Texas question is settled, aud 

•palled batter cleansed from the blood of this atrocioas ! is published by Jordan & Willey. 

trafic.k which in fact it is made to shield British cruis- ! The freemen of Massachusetts are making a«strong 

CM s eldo.u daring to overhaul a vessel under uVAn.er- 1 effort to p revent final consummation of this infamous 

lean n»?; American citizens, and they- too "en^ralh ' • ti a i- 

, lU1 .' £tuerB!i\ , o,„„„„ I he same effort is makin 



7v- * j scueme. i ne same cnori is ma-King in other States, 
trom the north, not scrupling to employ their vessels j^j wc (rusl the slaveholders will vet hare a stru^le 
wftite thev can get the most 



pay,* May Gob hies; 
those , I believe, hoi, est and earnest effort* to suppre.-; 

Slave trade, by a rn;m who is himself a stateKoldei 
aud wl... has stood in such nn attitude to abolition, et 
lnalfpn tin' anomaly "f his present position and varfan 
tht- more retuarkchle. But of this more hereafter, 

T)»»'t forjffij, the Ratitioaa agatait Texas. 



I to accomplish their Resigns. 



MAINE. 

The offieiaS vote in Mn ; »p-rs thus given. 

.. » ' - fa 
Democrat . 30,0«lti 
Whig ' 23,983 

Lib- rt v \ "M37 , 



1844. 
45,17H 

4.8*9 



LIBERTY PARTY IN N- CA lit) LIN A. 
A friend in IN. Carolina, says he is converted 
to the liberty party, and writes to another: 
trend in /ndiana thai he is going to estadlih 
a Liberty party press in N. Carolina Here 
is an extract from his letter, which we take 
from the Cincinnati Herald. 
'I now come to the subject of slavery 
which I want to say something about. 

Thou knowest that I was once a whig, 
because I know no better ; but now I belong 
to the Liberty party, and am a whole soul- 
ed opponent to all pro-slavery parties. I 
knew that slavery was an evil before I e- 
ver saw thee, but this much I will say, thou 
hast the honor of making to the Liberty- 
party one feeble prosolyte. 

"But, the one great object of this epistle 
is this: — There is one man bold enough 
and philanthropic enough to send out a 
Prospectus for an Anti-Slavery paper. 

"But here k the point. He will be com- 
pelled to have 400 subscribers from the free 
States the first year. This will give the 
paper a start, after w hich 1 think its pat- 
ronage here will support it. /say, and re- 
iterate, that tbe existence of t he paper rest 
with you." 

This is very important intelligence. We 
hope the 400 subscribers fr om the North 
will be quick supplied. The preaching 
must be done here first, and the money 
must be raised here next in subscriptions 
for liberty papers at the South. C. M. 
Clay had only 300 subscribers in Kentucky 
and 1.700 at the North, when he commen- 
ced the "True American." We must re- 
member that there are few like Birney, C 
M. Clay. &c, &c, that dare speak out, and 
they depend upon the North for encourage- 
ment and support. The ball is rolling. 

[True American. 

Can't thet take care or themselves. — Two fugi- 
tives from slavery in thfe free republic, to freedom in 
the dominions of a monarch, travelled from the far 
South, several hundred miles through the slave States, 
in the night time and on foot. When ona of tken was 
asked how they obtaiained provisions, he replied in true 
Irish brogue, that he was raised in an Irish family, and 
learned their manner of talking ; and a* they bad nco- 
ney with them, which they had earned by »atra work, 
I hey wen able to pay for what they wartad to eat. To 
obtain which he would approach near caoogh fa a 
house after the darkness of the night .set Lr», "so thrt bis 
color could not be distinguished at a little distance, aitd 
calf from the road inquiring in his Irish dialect for such 
articles as he wanted. If the reply was favorable, ha 
would ray, "Well I'll send my servant to gat hr, >. 
Having thus prepaid his way, be would enkr boldiy, 
and reoive and pay for the needful provision, to eoavay 
to his |rish master. If any of the i ..suspecting iaaiatea 
of the house took it into their heads, as they sonetiae* 
did, to accompany him to the road, his ma.-irr was sure 
to be r»issing,having,us he told them, gone ahaad. Civut 
they take cure of themselves ' Tret lobvr vdvwut*. 

$5=. We trust our friends iu West Jersey will be a- 
wake to the importance of the meeting in Jan. next and 

come up to the meeting in great numbers full 'of Zv.il 
tor the redemption of our <>s\ n State and the .Word from 
he withering curst' of slavery. Why should they .no*;. It 
k a noble .object Worihy ofsr<taf sa<?rihoea. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, DECEMBER 9, 1845. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanity withers. Keep. 



influence in other State. 

Letters have been written to Wm. Elder, Samuel 
Aaron, Lewis Tappan, & others and it is expected .that 
Alvan Stewart will be there with other eminent advo- 
cates of the causes of freedom. 

The time of the meeting and other particulars will be 
given in the next No. of the Freemen, without fail, 

The Pennsylvania Freeman, Elevator, and American 
Citizen please notice this meeting. 

The Rev. George Bourne, long knowu as a true 
and earnest friend of the slave, died suddenly, on thurs- 
day, Nov 20th, in the office of the Christian Intelli- 
gencer, in this city. About twenty five years since he 
was driven from Virginia, and virtually from the Presby- 
terian Church, in consequence of his faithful and fear- 
less opposition to slavery. It was his case, more than 
any other one thing, that was the occasion of striking 
from the Presbyterian Confession of faith and Discipline, 
tho note to the eighth commandment in which the hol- 
ding of slaves was declared to be man stealing 

He had promised to write out for us the whole his- 
tory of that important proceeding. But he is gone. 
His " Picture of slavery" will be read with new 



rhat fpanj good 
which s?a oes are 



'.. ■<■'■■. ;<>i!ii,l for the truth . I know 
. . ; i e '.ci av. are of (he treatment to 
i0taily s>>bjec.<cd, nor have they any 



just idea of the extent of the evil." 



THE FREEMAN. 

We have to apologize again for the delay of our pa- 
per, which should have been out the first of the month, 
but we had the misfortune to lose some of our help and 
at the same time have been burdened with a heavy in- 
crease of other cares. If we could receive paying sub- 
scribers enough to enable us to hire regular help, punc- 
tuality in these matters would be easy. It is very mor- 
tifying to do business in this way and therefore we 
make tho following 

PROPOSITION : 

We will enlarge the " Freeman " a little, print it bet- 
tor, edit it better, and send it out punctually every 

week, if our friends will find us 400 PAYING subacri- j - nterest and he m bc loRg rtrntrn bered as one of the 
bers, at one dollar each. We must have this number ! 



of subseribers with pay in advance. It will require great 
economy to make this sum meet the expenses, which 
will cost the cash. Our own services must be gratui- 
tous, with all the volunteer aid we can get. 

THE ELECTIONS. 
The late elections have shown a great degree of apa- 
thy on the part of politicians of every creed- The fal- 
ling off in the vote from last year has been immense in 
the Whig and Democratic parties. In Pennsylvania 
the Whig vote has fallen off 72,000— the Democratic, 
48,000 — while the Liberty vote has increased 494. The 
Whig and Democratic votes have fallen off much in the 
iaaa way in the other States, while with one or twe 
exceptions, the Liberty vote has had a small increase, 
ttaugh in some of the States the increase of the Liber 

y »ote has been very respectable. Dying uw&j seems 

'» have got on the other side. 

NEW JERSEY. 
We have teeeived returns from oaly 4 counties in 
iia State, via : 

Morris, 35. 
Essex, 

Had; ;©s , 17. 
Gloucester, 26. 
la Pasaaic co ticket was formed, where th.*y ahculd 
give 30 »otes, Sussex had 7 totes and several others 
returned a few votes last year. 

C'ir Jersey City friend* are doing nobly in the cause, 
and we trcst their spirit will yet prevail throughont 
the State. 

;| ? ? 

It w;!l be perceived is the proceeding? of the Str.te 
meeting reeektfy held in Patterson, that the Society h;s 
resolved to hold its anacal meeting in Trenton in Jim. 



earliest and most faithful pioneers in the anti-slavery 
cause in this country. 

ANTI SLAVERY BIBLE ARGUMENT, BY 
AC1TIZEMOF VIRGINIA This is the title of a 
pamphlet of about 100 pages just published by S. W. 



THE STATE MEETING. 

This Society held its Quarterly Meeting 
on the 12th iSov. in the Free Churcjj Pat- 
terson, 

At 12 o'clock A. M. the meeting was 
called to order by Benj. Crane of Patesou 
one of the vice President & prayer was 
offered by MrWeed. 

The minutes of the last meetings were 
read, and Messrs Grimes, Belden & Howe 
were appointed a committee to prepare 
buisinesa for the day. 

The meeting then adjourned to. 3 o'clock 
P. M. 

3 o'clock the meeting was called to or- 
der and prayer was offered by Mr. Belden. 

The business committee reported the 
following resolutions which were adopted. 

Resolved, That true philanthropists will never grow 
weary in well doing; that to relax effort in a good cause 
on account of the slowness of its progress or the lew 
individuals engaged in such cause, is to show ourselves 
unworthy the name of christian or philanthropist, and 
proves all such as grow inactive from this cause ne un- 
faithful Sentinels. 
2, Resolved, That we regard the proposed annexation 



Benedict, N. Y. and for sale by Finch & Weed 118 j of Texas to this naton, as unconstitutional; that it 



Nasasu Street N. Y 

All who think slavery a divine institution should read 
this pamphlet. It is of peculiar value coming from one 
who lives in the midst of slavery, but it contains in itself 
enough to reach any conscience that is susceptible to the 
influence of Christianity. 



The Missouri. — By private letter whr.h has reached 
us from Gibraltar, we are inform': . upon good authority 
that 20,000 slave shackles for men, women, and chil- 
dren, in all fourteen cart-loads, have been fished up 
from the wreck of the American war-steamer Missouri, 
lately burnt at that port. Hampshire Telegraph (Eng.) 

By the last arrivals, we see that a correspondent of 
the London Times re-affirms this fact. Can it be true ? 

This statement has been some time before the public 
in this country and as yet we have seen no attempt to 
disprove it. If true, here is one of our government 
vessels, built, manned, and sustained at the expense of 
oar National Treasury, giving very important aid to the 
most abominable species of piracy that ever disgraced 
any civilized nation. Our government hangs, as pirates, 
all these found guilty cf participating in the African 
Slave trade, and here is one of her own vessels engaged 
in furnishing these pirates with the cruel means of con- 
ducting their business. Only look at it ! " Fourteen 
cart-Iaads of shackles for men, women, and children, " 
found on board &f a vessel belonging to the navy of the 



only free nation pi earth! This is a fair specimen of ! *he^ Liberty Party 
the encouragement which lave traders and slave-hcld- 



proposed to be done for the base purpose of propping 
up the abominable crime of slave-holding in this 
nation, by securing a slave holding majority in both bran- 
ches of congress, thus turning the whole current of our 
national legislation to the support and perpetuation of 
slave-holding interests, aud r.nd that it is the duty of 
every true friend of human liberty to continue firm, 
faithful, and unceasing, in his labor? of opposition to the 
final consummation of this wicked scheme. 

Resolved, 3. That we approve of the suggestions 
made at the great Eastern Convention, of renewed ef- 
fort in opposition to the final passage of any act of cong- 
ress, ratifying the act of annexation passed at the last 
session of congress, and agreed upon by the government 
Sf Texas, sad earnestly recommend to the friends of 
liberty in all parts of the s tate, to circulate without tic- 
lay, petitions against the annexation of Texas, to be 
sent on to congress at the commencement of ' its next 
session in December. 

Resolved, That we earnestly recommend to all aboli- 
tionists to take some one or more of the Libery Party 
papers, inasmuch as the papers of the either parties, 
studiously avoid publishing those things' which are most 
important to the cause of liberty. 

Resolved 5. That whether the Liberty Party as such, 
ever reaches such a majority as will enable it directlv 
to wield the civil power of this nation or not, is not 
a question which is to decide the past, present, and fu- 
ture usefulness of the Liberty Party; inasmuch as we 
believe, that most if not all of what the other parties 
have done, and are doing for human liberty, either by 
lfgisiation or otherwise, they are driven to by the in- 
fluence of the principles enforced at the ballot box by 



for a Ions; time. Shall it be continued ? 



This we believe at this time to be of the greatest im 

i f . , ... . . . era have receivec m vane us v, ays trom our government 

pcrwon'e. Jnr Legislature will be in session at that;,. , .„ ., .. , .. , „ b 

time. A great many people of intelligence feoin all "parts 
of tH State will be there, and it is of the greatest im- 
portance tb.st the friends cf Liberty in all parts of the 
St»te ehonld coma up to thtt meeting. Liberty demands 
it, Truth demands it, Humanity demands it, tho injured 
honor of our State demantis it. Several times within 
the. past ycir New Jersey has been made the hunting 
ground d southern desperadoes, and the peaceable, un 
offi 



The Ladies of Loonton will have a F&IXt on Christ- 
mas day in the Spacious Carpenter Shop near the Fac- 
tory It will be opened at, 10 o'clock A. M., and contin- 
ue op«i: in the afternoon and evening. A great variety 
ol useful & Fancy Articles will be "offered for sale. 



'ending citizens of cur State have beec forcibly dreg-! ' i 

..... J ;ar.tt r. «T..-at abundance of first rate refreshments will be 

gsd away at midnight, contrary to our tews kto slavery j , ro ,id<?d 

Shall these outrages continue ? Is it sot the duty of ev- j r Dec. 9 1845. 

ery man to eome out and testif, in tne beet pouihfeway i ■ 

against such infamous outrages on justice and humanity ' Extract of a letter d:i ^ J J % 2nd '» 1834 Mr , 

and wicked violators of our laws, and how can he do it | ! f athan Cole ' of St Louis ' Missouri to Arthur Tappan j 



beter than eome up to Trenton in Jan. lf-this meeting 



is well attended it can bt' made to tell for the cause 
yfew^r feftNfotg wiffl power and have a rhiarl 



Esq. of New York. 
j-| " Iain not an advocate of the immediate unci uncon- 



I diti 



onal emancipation of the slaves (four country, yet 



Resolved 6 That it is the duty of all consistent adva- 
cates of liberty to extend a helping hand to fugitive 
slaves; to clothe, feed, entertain, encourage cud help 
them on to places where they can live ic jx'a^c and se- 
curity in the enjoyment of that liberty which is denied 
them in most parts of this land. 

Resolved 7 That when this society adjourn it will 
abjourn to hold its annual meeting in the City of Tren- 
ton in January next. 

The first was taken up and freely commented on by 
Messrs Belden, Weed, Flavel, Howe, Morris and oth- 
ers, and adopted. The seventh was then taken up and 
discussed and unanimously adopted. The remaing res- 
| clutions were then laid on the table, for further discuss- 
I ion in tliL evening and the meeting adjourned to hal 
1 past seven o clock. 

j In the evening addresses were given by the Re 
I Messers Belden, Morris and Weed, Mr. Howe an 
others mostly on the subject of prejudice against color- 
i ed people A remonstrance against Texas was sigfted 
I by many of the audience, the remamder of lthe reeolu 



mini has «r«t yd depicted the uretchednefa of the sit- ■ lions w ere adopted and the Societi fcdiournerl. 



■ ttSBSSSBESSSBtSBA 

TfclE A NT! SLAVERY ALMANAC. 

for ISi is ju.il; published by FINCH & WEED, 118 
;:;,.> . $t?§et New York, and for sale by them, whole- 

saie : .> I t> ait. They are also for' sale at the olfice of 

th • Freeman in Boon-ton. 

E.-ery aati slavery man in the Srate should constitute 

Edftisulfaa asjeiit for the sale and distribution of this Al - 

mauac; Lot this he done without delay. 



MARRIED 

D .c Oih,hy the Rev. Mr Barker; at Metutchen Mr.' 
Isaac EvarUfp- Beonton,. to Miss Eiiza Jane Riker. of 
.hatiiam. 



Temperance Record. 

Temperance Anecdote.— Hn old lady residing not 
many Mitel distant, k?pt a very large family of turkies, 
perhaps* sixity. the, like a great many other people, 
the ight a v at deal of her turkies, consequently valued 
them 1 eery highly. Opposite ler door was a West 
Indian Good S ore. The man who kept it one day 
emptied his casks of cherries, intending to replace with 
new. This ojd lady, being economical, thought it a 
peat pity to have all these cherries wasted, and in 
ordefc to have them saved, she would just drive over 
her turkies} and let them eat them. In the counte of 
the dav the old, lady thought she would look after them 
and see they were in no mischief. She approached to- 
ward and Id ! in one corner lay her turkies in one huge 
pile, dead. Yes they were stone dead. What was to 
Le done ? 

Surely the good matron cou ! d not loose all the fea- 
thers ! Sh3 must pick them ! She called her daughter* 
and picked them intending to have them buried the neat 
mprning. Morning came, end behold ther- were her 
turkies a'aiking about the yard fea herleu enough, a. 
maybe supposed, crying out 'quit, quit,' feeling ao 
doubt mortitfod that their drunkest fit had "been the 
means of loosing .heir coa's.— - Pour thingJ, if they had 
b*id quit b.-;fora they begun th y would not have been 
in this ' bad fi*.' 

I n^ic a Ivite all young men who are in tLe habit of 
nking, to leavi o.l fofore they get picked : auJ ttj 
these who do not, let every young lady say, 4 quit.' 

Some Yankee editor says he -likfd to died larfiu' tea*. 
| drunken chap trying to pocket the ehedvw of • 
»winjivij sign which he mistook for a pocket laudker 
phief. Exchant}* Paper. 

The Alleghany (Pa) Methodist Confer- 
ence L :4 1 1 ! * required "thai no minister shall 
be admit led into liie conference who uses 
Lobacco in any of its forms except as a medi- 
cine, and in that case satisfactory evidence 
shall foe giveu" ' 



POET'S CORNER 

A N T I - S L A V E ft Y LYRIC. 

BY JAMES SJILLMAW." 

He quails, the dsmon despot q nails, 
liis coward cheek is blansh'd with fear, 
For Freedom's marshalPd host assails, 
And well tie knows his end is near ; 
Truth sheds abroad its glorious rays, 
And shows the mighty vict<>ri<s won, 
While err. r shrinks before the blaze, 
As clouds are aeatter'd by the sun. 

In vain the despot fiend invokes 
His leigon band* to gather round, 
And bring fresh chains and heavier yokes, 
That many may yet he lighter bound; 
For lo ! the fiat hath gone forth — 
Heaven wills the freedom of the thrall, 
And o'er the universal earth 
The thrones of slavery shall fall. 

A dauntless spirit is evoked 
Which force o~ fraud can never quell, 
And voices long with anguish choked 
The song of triumph soon shall swell, 
And echoing round from shore toshers, 
O'er mountain, prairie, land and sea, 
Loud as ten thousand thunder's roar, 
Proclaim our country now is free. 

Ye who would human spirits crush, 
And quench the soul's aspiring risn.a, 
When you can stay the lava's gush, 
Or the tornado's fury tame, 
Then hope to stay the onward i r : 
Of Liberty's embattled train — 
Crash moral might by brutal fore*, 
And Slavery's hat ful rale sustain. 



From the yoeh'e Monthly visit r 
In theytar 1911 n -ar the city of Louisville, Ky. a* 
the » 'XLon went to open a grave yard he found there a 
si»v* mo.'her digging a grave for h- r o*u infant which, 
without shroud or coffin was lying by hen a the earth. 
Her ifosterss led sent fo-r thus to bury her iefoni tesiv.- 

the expense of grav c'oths and coffin; Mr. Need- 

t •■■■«, Speech in the Liberty Coaventiou, June 13, 1815. 



TJIX SL..1VK .1IOTI3XU. 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The following 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib-, 
erty Association. 

Condition of Livinsr. 

a 

The cause of Hard times. 

Influence of Slave power 

One more appear to Christians & Churches. 

Bible Politics. 

Jewish Servitude. 

Smith & Clarkson. 

Persons he/d tp service. 

Loyal National Repeal Association. 

Duties and Dignities of American Freemen. 

Ill Treatment of People of color in the U. 

Testimony of a Southern Witness. C. M. Clay. 

The lawlessness of slavery. 

Poems on S/avery by Longfellow. 

The Missouri Compromise. 

Smiths Constitutional Argument. 

Two cents Postage 

Address to t'ae;Peepl»Jof kea'.aehy ay 0. M. 

Cloy. 



J J» The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
has made preparations to do'a good veeik for liberty, 
the comming year. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Bostea ie engaged aa a-i 
gent and Editor of the Aoti Slavery Reverter. The 
Reporter is an excellent paper pualieae« monthly at 
llt» Nas-au s'rret N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year far a aingla 
copy. 5 copies to one address for 3 5».W 19 capias $ 
i.ij. end bJ ci;.r-s for -~> i 2,50. auberierieae will ba 
received ot this atiics. 



V 



v.- n» *» 
V ¥ 

ANTI SLAVERY BOO si STOHhV 



?>Iyroa Finch and ThoB»«« > A. Weed esee epaaed a* 
•dice for the sale of Aati Slavery Boaka, Pataphleta 

Ti scU Slc. at 118 Nassau Street, New Yerk, Lei tkaaa 
ba well > w. id. 



; m- us,— It is said the editor »t tie 

)qtk)la.rid Qa,zet\.%. Michigan ■ has su«cUhe 
editirofthc I'ontiac i.-. .'• . tn, for char 

ging l'.i'm with having ptiiilcd the Garland 
ior^cry- Won't the fttath come o«t ou the 

iair. 




's.-k rnii a runaway s'.ave irm th? South, arvi*- 
;J Dft jil ; iv : -r oiti morning i.» v. .uiui;»»r, atJ a.»« h-~ 
mg -»re of- hiV * hereabouts, skulked arovte bates 
knees; until foiling In with s-ime of ii* <» *, tt sliiy 
accosted tbcm au l inquired of tb«sin the ehertest ro'it 
toCaiiada, te wliich Ihry rejdied, H G\it swsy * tt < 
yo« ibfli • J "U are iq Ci r.c <:.'■ 'I t r i,. »«> aj a w» t •.- 
uenless for a tnoment, locking nt i i.> infs sr.sr.Cs iv\ 
t'»e • jamping up and down as ttVaViy perjesdio • e: 
ii* bow t.-frs would permit, snd WneoKiVg v 1 1 i-i 1 and 
around aiappiflg Inck his coat le.il will' botli r.»r<'.v. ex- 
Vla ; med 'Ms 3 free 9 »— "is 1 W'-'- is 1 i>v. ?*1 he 
iween eaah cx^ia-uat'on hlowin? off itte^iu in a v-rr pc- 
culittr to his :<i::l-. — -D;Cij Adc«rlit$r. 



Air: — A,ah>/t T)awj\:w. | 
The slave mothor leaved o*: h?r maftock full weary, 
At the grey of th* dawi, in (hat home nPihe desldt : 
Where the tall city's shade made eachgreefl jrave lao's j 
dreary, 

Though spangled w ith tears which kind nature hvl shah i 
Rat »h« recked not that cold dews were filling (ouud he | 
i'hou^'h weary with toil and ikoujh fainting for food, 1 
l'«*r the last tia was anokas tvhich to feeing had bound 
h-r, 

And ftfeaas ti e fstedtjdsi fo.- lif» i:i her biaii 

v \*r ehihlren %• n.i.l.»r t love ei re she had !ov»d thssa 
J* it • 'Id were tii- y savf !»,•• c.irpae by her aide.; 
\)4>i all fo r fs;»rs for ».rr chihLand removed them, 
ksi s«r J«v. pa «• «:j ho^e *iih r.«-s \ml f»b« had died; 

0, Ue>, %i»\. f * ••'« i ku« ■> i-# it • J »a 6rst i» tt U'.t. 

1. < U a| |-«sge v.. «•>•,>..».(. ti.e lips totald not »p»..ik, 
Site theu|fhl that : s Safety In d-«(th was for b»tur, 
Thiii the joy fo»dfo'l » i»»u-i» b» athsd ou her cheek; 

A tad she prayed, ti< s : a k i * i »v Utt sUangi ta-.», pre- 

The »t k-wLiiikss a-rJ cwtTui, «« rest for her c' ild, 
hat- 'soon L.-r to.-' biya.! might L-rr bale's sleep, bf 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev 
George Dourne, exposing some of th* iniqui/oue pro- 
ceediags of Ecclesiastical bodies ia the Protestant 
church. ll khould b* read by every body, 
sale a< this otbee, prica 31 caaUt. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION U » •>" "1 hook puhlishad by JOHN 1.EEI* 
Pa. tor of a Congregational Church is Ohio. It should 
he read by every body. A few copies for aala at taa 

Freeman Office, Booaton, N. J. 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For wis at ths OHeaef 

the Freeman, Boonton, N. J. 

L <H EETYMIJrSTRE.£, 

A 'few copies of Clurk's Liberty Minstrel srs f*>c 

jale a: t h i - office. 

'Phis is sup ri t to rtny thing (Y the kind we have, 
seen, am' shoud be in t'<e posscaaton of everyone that 
loves \'o >d musi , ;tud loves to make a good use of it. 
Price, 44 cents. 



Her heart c> tnore wnvp. avil her brain no more wild: 
^orsi.e sail!, v . i.it. rod u r.ei dtrk vapors -ispirantj, j J$ 0 on,';OV Liberty A <W>cialiafl>-r-r\\eGt* th©- 
T l ••• cvii; from A,r moss furf wliich covered the Ef.avej . , .'J, r,,...^ n.nntli 

T,,i,l ih •, . d r ■ heiar) fta ty^n*. | farst * ,,ldaV * VCWV * ^ ^ 2 " L 

A..d d, for i..., cu-ear tUti d.c life of a stave. | M, HvtirU ; Presided, V. i) ^OlTts, 9m 



Boanton Washington Temperance Benev- 
olent Socieffr-meets every Monday W» 
ning til the Free Church. D Norri^ 
President, Martjds Evarts Secretwy ? 




vol. 2. 



BOONTOW, JANUARY 10, 1846- 



If©. 8« 



«!3 



THE FREEMAN 

IS BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

TERMS. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, or for 12. numbers 
10- copies to one address for wo dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Luzerne Democrat. 
THE YOUTH THAT WAS JET UNO. 

The Sheriff took out his watch, and said '"If you 
have anv thing to say, speak now, for you have only 
live minutes to live. " The young man burst into 
fears, and said — "I have to die. I had only one little 
brother ; he had beautiful blue eyes, and flaxen hair, 
and I loved him; but one day I got drunk for the first 
time in my life, and coming home, I found my little 
brother gathering strawberries in the garden, and I be- 
came angry at him with out a cause, and I killed hirn 
atone blow with a rake, I did not know anything 
about it until next mourning when awoke from my 
sleep, and found myself tied and guarded, and was told 
that when my little brother was found his hair was 
clotted with blood and brains, and he was dead. — 
Whiskey had done this. It has ruined me. I never 
was drunk but once. J have only one word to say, 
and then I am going to my final Judge. I eay it to 



secret poison ! See the wasted form — the anguished 
eye — the dread of friend and foe — the horrible war oi" 
the necessary craving for food-^and the instinctive 
keen sence of fatal poison — now when all that God ha& 
intended for support in the trying hour are turned bite 
the bitterest curse — look there, misery and madness 
struggling for supremacy — and cold, certain inevitable 
death the sole arbiter and giver of rest ! Tell us now 
the untaught impulse of the heart of man, is not this 
worse than death in the Wattle field ? Go see the- "cat 
o'nine" buried in the flesh of the unprotected slave — 
see his ashy shrivelled from — his rags — Lis foul and 
comfortless hut — tear him from his home — blot outfrcm 
his eye the loved images of wife, children, and Irkndt 
—and who are the men who do this tiring ? Every cit- 
izen who by his cole allows the vilest icrctch to do the 
deed ivith impunity ! But the ciziten was bom to it — 
love of wealth, pleasure and pride, have usurped the 
place of unbought conscience: many palliatives ccme to 
his help-— and if conscience awakes heaven help us — 
there is a great and merciful and omnipotent God, who 
can purify the most deep stained sou!, and upon repen- 
tance make the tortured spirit happy once more! 

But when and how shall we class that man who 
knocks from under our tottering and weary feet. this 
last scaffolding of hope, and makes God himself the 
worst of tryants— the falsest of friends — the most unjust 
of fancied existences' The man w ho attempts tc just- 
ify slavery from the Bible is that man! If he wins us 
to his opinions,' he tnnkes us an inlideJ — we lose our 
belief in the existence Of a God — our idea of the immor- 



and endless eternity. 

I was melted to tears at the recital and the avvfu/ 
spectacle. My litlle h"art seemed as if it would burst 
and ireak away from my aching bosom, so intolerable 
were my feelings of grief. And there in that carriage 
while on that cushioned seat, streaming eyesupon the 
body of that unfortunate young man, as it hung, dang- 
ling and writhino betw een heaven aud earth, as . unfit 
for either place, there it was that I took the Pledge 
never to touch the hurtful poison. 

Long years have passed away. — White hairs have 
thickened around those temples, then so ruddy & young 
but I have never forgotten the laet words of that young 
man, and I have never violated that pledge. When 
the tempter has offered me the sparkling goblet, the 
words of that young man have seemed to sound in my 
ear again. — [Old man's Story. 



youns, people. Never! Never!! NEVER!!! take 
any thing that can intoxicate P As he pronounced these ta!it y of the soul - al > distinction betwee n right and 
words, he sprang from the box, and was lauuehad into wron g-~ we sink fr°™ the man into die beast— we 

would not scruple to muid -r our mother for a meal of 
victuals — or scatter the desecrated remains of a dead 
sister, er father, or wife, to^manure cur cucumber vines? 
We thank God that instinct is stronger than reasoning 
and conscience more powerful than argument. We do 
most sincerely believe, and we deliberately weigh what 
we say, that a!! the books and papers which have been 
written to prove slavery a divine institution, has never 
con vinced a single man or woman that it was right— 
no not one! We have not read the argume nt above re- 
ferred to — life is to short for a man to read a long dis- 
course to prove that a man may not murder his fatiier 
or sell his country for gold, or enslavs his fellow man! 
If then we will not and cannot read the argument of our 
able frienei, "A Virginian, "in defence of the right, what 
shall we say of the God "defying defender of the wrong? 
We promised to give the "Alabama Preacher' and his 
class around when we get cool, Ave now postpone itfor- 
The following article from C. M. Clay's ever, for until this miserable and dying being of ours be- 
True American is one of the best he ever ^mes yet most de serving of all the ills that flesh is 
_ . , i i j ,i • i • . , , , . heir to, we never can associate in our mind Religion 

wrote and we should think it would bring a . CT ... .., 4 .... , , ° , 

° and slavery without tbe< most unqalrned loathing and 

blush upon the cheeks of some Northern hot indignation? 
men of "standing and influence," as well as 
proslavery voters every where Lib .Stand 

R We have before us "a condensed anti-slavery Bible 
^argument, by a Citizen of Virginia,'' a pamphlet of 90 
wages, New York, 1845, — We are ever pained when 
IWe see or hear Religion and Slavery mentioned in con- 
nexion. Hear we confess we lose all that charity which 
IWe can at limes feel towaids the greatest criminals and 
the worst of crimes. We imagine that no one looks 
Upon the lion and snake with the same feeling, although 
path may be threatened by both. Goto the field of bat- 
tle and sec the brains scattered from the crushed scull 
or the great gush oi the heart's blood! and the. greatest 
"work of Gexl has been marred! This site is horrid en- 
Bu* 50 to the gboi.iy c) arober of the victim o* 



THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. 

This body, in 1787, recommended it to all their peo 
pie to use the most prudent mesures; consistent with 
the interests of the state of civil society in the countries 
where they live, to procure eventually the final abolit- 
ion of slavery in America. 

They re-affimcd the same judgement in 1793. 

In 1784, the General Assembly adopted certain 
"scripture proofs and notes" to the Confession of jPaith. 
Note b, appended to a question of the larger Catechism 
vpon the eighth commandment, was as follows; 

"I. Tim. i., 10. The law is made for ; man-stealers. 
This crime, among the Jews, exposed the perpetrators 
of it to capital punishment; Ex. xxi., 1ft; and the aposr 
tie here c asses them v ith sinners of the tirsi rank. The 



word he uses, in its original import, comprehends all • 
who are cont\erned in bringing any of the human race 
into slavery, or in retailing them in it. Honminw fares 
;/»» servos vel iiberos abduevnt, reiintrA, ver.dviit, vel 
emtmt. Stealers of men are all those who bring off 
slaves or freemen, and keep, sell, or buy them. To 
steal a freen»an,says Grolius 'is the highest kind of theft 
In other instances, we only steal human property, 
out when we steal or retain men in slavery, we seize 
those who in common with ocrselves are constitutent 
by the- original gi ant, lords of the earth." Gen. j., '28. 
Vide Poll synopsin in /oc." 

This remained as il e judgment of the Church for 
some twenty years. About the end of that period, a 
Worthy abolitionist, who still lives, was Preaching in 
Virginia In good set terms. and true Christian fidelity, 
he assailed slaveholding and insisted that slaveholders' 
were m? n stealers. Seme oi his Presbyterean and min- 
isteriakbrcthreu were greatly annoyed t Mid sought to 
discipline him as a disorganize^ But to their surprise 
he quoted not the Bible only, but theii own Confes- 
sion against them, and they were for the time' obliged 
to stay proceedings. At jence however, the}- and thciis 
siaveho'ding accomplices set themselves to getting the 
obnoxious note out of the Confession. They effected 
this by characteristic manoeverir.g, in ISlC. A minori- 
ty resisted aud protested, and brought the subject t;p> 
gain the following year. It was evident sotnathifig 
must be done to cover the servile iniquity; and thanexi 
year, the famous Declaration of 1818 was made. It. 
served its purpose admirably. Since that, slavery has 
nestled qoiellv and increased nicely :n the bosom off 
the Church until, in, 1845-the Old Scoot PrcsLytennn 
church, the lineal descendant in this thing of the Pres- 
byterian church thai was has even gene back IVcm the 
ground of ISIS, and now allows and justifies slavery i :v 
principal as a Bible institution. 

STRAINING AT GNATS AND SWALLOWING 
CAMELS. 

It will take the light of eternity to reveat .ill the in- 
fluencs that have wrought the above degeneracy in 
fhe Presbyterian church. In the providence of God, 
however, some of her sins in tfiis thing are "open be- 
forehand going to judgement." One of them is at hand. 
It will be interesting and instructive, probably, to all 
religions broker;: and stock-jobbers in the .mantrade. It 
is as follows: At the meeting of the General Assembly, 
at Pittsbug. in 1836, the Trusters of the funds of tho 
church reported respecting the succesful operation they 
had lately mr.de, to increase the revenues of the church 
by a sale of certain northern securities, and the invest- 
ment of the proceeds in huik stock at Vicksburgh and 
Grand Gu'f. One transaction was dwelt upon with 
great interest: among the stocks so transferred, were 
a numbe'- of shares in (he Hackensack Bridge Company, 
N, J., concerning which the consciences of the pious 
had lone; bee:i troubled, from thn circumstance that 
the bridge was a thorough-fare for travelling on the 
Sabbath, and 8 portion of the profits of this Sabbath 
profanation went into the treasure of the Lord. So 
tht j trusters relieved the tender consciences, and re- 
moved the scandal, bv investing the funds in south- 
ern banks, to be used buying the new cotton fields of) 
the south-west and stocking th^m with negroes; from 
which they anticipated a much larger in ccme than a 
mere 6 per cent, interest/ The s«mo year these trus- 
tees-;ind their southern friendsmadc stubborn and stout 
resistance to any action of the Assembly condemnitory 
f slavery. 

Time rolled on. Koux year." after, in 1840, the pro- 
ceedings of the General Assembly (Old ScBOQl) contain- 
a report of a committee on the funds of the Church, the 
Hon. Johii Fine, chairman, which though cautiously 
deficient? i» spcific data, coatair.ee the fduowihg stgnta- 



«ant paragraph: . ! ined — >yea litterally crowded — with slaves-. Whim | 

" The comiiii .tee regret that nay previous Assem- | toey arrived, the immense number (swelling to rise of 
blvshould have approved of ihT" funds of tlv; Church 1 40,000) made the callows hearts ofal! the traders ache. | 
beith' invested in i/t' stacks of distant banks, with the* They pitched their tenis upon they brow of every hill 
expecl<:i : ou r>f rvclvchfj « lartjer income than 9 per. cent (surrounding each town aud village iu the Slate, await- 
tntercst." The r. pori states that "for one or more pig the call of purchasers. None came. Theuinterof 



yearsftbis expectation Was realized. But the Commit- 
tee fear that some portion of these investments is now in 
extreme hazard. It is plain that the Assembly would 
not at the present time, recommended a further invest- 
ment of the Church funds in .south-western banks. Is 



1837 approached, and but few, very few, sales were ef- 
fected. At last they advertised *hey would give one 
and two years' time, by bills on New Orleans, adding 
ten per cent interest discount. 

"The terms were accepted by the planters, and many 



it not worthy of the consideration of thejtrustees,weth- j were induced to purchase a second, and even a third 



or it be not the part of wisdom to sell the stocks of the 
uuproducfivc banks as soon as it may be judiciously 
done, and invest the proceeds in securities which are 
less fluciualiug and less hazardous." 

May 27th , s 1842, brought out a statement from the 



supply at from $1200 to $1S00 each. All the slaves 
were soon sold. But by this the merchants began to 
give way. Nearly all the bills made by the planters 
in the fall of 1 S.'Jo and spring of 1836, at from twelve to 
fifteen months' time, were protested for non-payment. 



"Standing committee on Finance,' t showing "the cost | The bills for the whole of the purchases in the winter 
and estimated value of sundry stocks, and loss theeron" ! and spring of 1837wcre protested for non-acceptance. 



The whole cost of the stocks *named, Was §136,339 
For some of these stocks a handsome piemium was 
paid at ths time of purchase, amonnting in all to $11^ 
331. The whole low, as estimated in 1842, was $89, 
C34. The following table shows for what the premi- 
ums were mostly paid, andj| were most ITofthe losses 
were. 

No of Estimated 
Shares. Cost. Premium. Loss. 

100, PI. B. Miss. 511,077,62 $1,077,62 $10,827,62 
200, Ag B. do., 23,700,70 3,791,79 21,701,76 
10, G. G. B. do., 992,00 
200, PI. B. Term. 22,100,25 
eoO, Un. B. do., 15,262,50 
100, B. of Mob., 11,027,50 
100, B. of Lou., 10'526,25 



The negro speculators became alarmed. They went to 
work in Febuary and March, and in three months' time 
had secured their debts by deeds in trust and mortgages 
upon nearly the whole property of the State. In three 
yers, the slave population of Mississtppi increased from 
70,000 to 160,000 slaves! at an everege cost of at least 
$1000 each! making the debt for slaves alone, in three 
years, swell to $90,000,000 ! ! From 1833 to 1S37, 
cotten bore an extraordinary high price. This together 
with the incrensed force, induced the planter to diicct 
all his energy to its cultivation, relying upon purchas- 
ing every article of consumption. He neglected to raise 
2,106,25"! 16,106.25 jk' s corn an d pork; he had to purchase more mules, hor- 
262 50 '1 1 1 062 50 aud P lou ohs, open more lands,and increased his bills 
with the merchants, whom he totally neglected to pay. 
When the cash came in May. 1838, all the paper 
held against the planters by the merchants, or nearly all 
was transferred to the banks, or such upon by the mer- 
chant?. The crowd of business in the different Courts 



942,00 



1,027,50 
526;25 



3,527,50 
4,726,25 



$94,692,88 $8,701,88 $68,893,88 
From this it appears that the Church paid nearly the 
whole of her premiums for and realized nearly the ' ¥& ed judgement was at last obtained; the sheriffs and 
whole of her losse.: from," the stocks of those south | marshals could find nothing, scarcely to levy upon, 
western banks, that were to pay such ga handsome in- j Bankruptcy and rum among some of the merchants 

come over G n<- cent intcre-t' and - ere to earn it al- ! were illevita bk ' 5 and «P their faH the !f the Banks again.Stdl angry at himself and all the rest, he sat a 

some pu» b p.. cent, interest, and were to earn it al- ! .* . I ] 0 n<r time till nearly all was (rone, and then came upjto 

fnost who/1 v in the cotton and negro speculation^ the The mgro-lradors .stood by wuh a cold md.ffcrence, ; ^ ^ 0 f his ] aCe and very 

time. What a deli^htfuil piece of pious financiering it and bej ( ,e ' d lowu f dp I>opulated and large plantation after j ' a iarge sum to the treasurer. "Very well," said 



ANNUAL MEETING 

Tbe next Annual Meeting of the New 
Jersey Anti-Slavery Society, will be held 
on Wednesday 28th day of January inst. in 
Trenton at 1 o'clock P." M. 

Able speakers will be in attendance to 
make the meeting interesting and we trust 
profitable. The Friends of Liberty in the 
State who receive this notice are requested 
to use ail the means possible to get the no- 
lice of this meeting before the people of the 
State without delay & we trust the impor- 
tance of coining up to this meeting will 
befell by all the lovers of Liberty. If they 
all do their dutv we shall have a large 
Jan. 10th 1846. 

Alex. H. Freeman Sec. 



How to Give.- -At a missionary meeting held a- 
amougst the negroes in the West Indies, these three re- 
solutions were agreed upon : 

1. We wi'l all <rive something. 

2. We will all give as God has enabled us. 0 

3. We will all give willingly 

As soon as the meeting was over, a leading negro 
took his seat at a table, with pen and ink to put down 
what each came to give. Many came forward and 
gave, some more and some less. Among those that 
came was a rich old negro, almost as rich as all the oth- 
ers put together, and threw down up pon the table a 
small silver coin. 'tTake dat back again," said the n«- 
gro that receved the money, "Dat may be according to 
de first resolution, but it not according to de second." 
The rich old man accordingly took it up, and hobbled 
back, again to his seat in a great rage. One after 
another came forward, and as almost all gave more 
than himself jhe was fairly ashamed of himself, and a- 
gain threw down a piece of money on the table, saying, 
"Dere ! take dat !*' It was a valuable piece of gold ; 
but it was given so illtemporedly, that the negro answer- 
ed again, 'No! Dat u on 't do yet ! It may be accor- 
ding to de first and second resolution, but it notaccord- 
ing to de last;" and he was obliged to take up his coin 



was, to take the funds from the Haekensack : Bridge 
Company, endjhe like, for conscience sake, and invest 
them were besides yielding more than lawful interest, 
they would go to stimulate the trade in souls and blood ! 
Thank Heafen, "the biters were bitten." We fear 
they will meet an account at the day of judgement, not 
so easy settled as this. As God is true, if they repent 
not, chained, tortujed, sold, and murdered men Bnd wo- 
man will meet them there, and ask redress. Brokers 
of men, how will yon meet them ? 



large plantation laid waste, growing up with thorns and 
briars, without feeling one pang of remorse for the ruin 
and wretchsdness they had brought upon the country; 
laughing at their own safty and security." 

And when the banks went, the General Assembly's 
funds and all its golden dreams of more than 6 percent, 
interest went with them. These funds be it remem- 
berred, constituted a large portion of the funds of the 
Church. Is|it any wonderthat the trustees and leaders 



of such a Church have ever been ready to step forward 
j as tW apolijjists, patrons and defenders of slavery? 
"YlOW THE M A. N- TRADE WAS DRIVEN AT j wotdd tr, ink such losses might cure them of this 

THE TIME THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY fiTS"?* ^ ^Tf ( 0,d Scho ° I ) 

FUNDS?WERE LOST. , ' As8enibl >' *° w the » te *» though spaniels. 

In January, 1840, a correspondent of the United j WHAT MIGHT BE DONE WITH THE MO- 
Rtatcs Gazette, who signed himself Spectator and who- j N EY WASTED IN WAR. — Give me, says Steb- 
ss accuracy the editor vouched for, gave an impressive j bins, the niecey that has been spent in war, and I will 
account of the course of events in Mississippi, in those ; purchase every foot of land on the Globe. I will clothe 
palmy days of negro speculation, (hat were to bring j every man, woman and child, in an attire that kings 
such revenues to the Picsbvterian Church. He said : i and qu'ce^S v,ou!d 1>c 1 roB fl of - 1 will build a school 

" In the faflfot 183.'), slaves in great multitudes were j hrus! ' ,! ! i:n evi ' r >' hil1 sid *» and in every valley over the 

driven to the State, qnadtupling anv previous y«ar. The , habilaible earth— I will supply that school house with 

demand abroad advanced the price. The competition j a com i*' l,;,,t ^achcr I will build an acadamy in every 

forced the traders to give from twelve to fifteen 'months • toWn < ut " 1 aBd e,K,ow 11 7* ' Col,f> S c in cver >' State > & 

time adding ten per cent interest. Soon so as the plan- i M J J m * a!:,t ' P ro '^ >ssor » I will crown every hil! 

ter frame* he could purchase oti time, by bills on New I Wl,h \ ^ COn f ( ^ to lhc Promulgation of the 

Orleans, he bought liberally. The traders soon sold all ° f ^ ~ W " ,a its ^ fJ*f 

<u ■ , .ii .,, , , ' '^acher of r»h,teousnesS, so that on evcrv Sabbath 

they had; retard home with accepted foils, cash-,' , m ; U:e chilTH> of „ Rl . sba „ ansWP1 . to lhe c!limp 

them m Banks and not m, y embarked >n .t aga.n mor, | oflht . ot , !Cr aroU!1(] Ac eul ,,,, s broU(1 c ; rcumfcrcnce .... 

;,rge y themselves, but induced their Wrjends and ac ^ the voice of pravcr, n:vl th, son;r of praise should 



ounVitaneies also to enbark in il. Every corner of th r 
Slaveholdine States was now ran ackid, and evev 
• ■ 'elling visited by the trader. Prices advanced hfghri 
aud higher. The fall 1836 is a time long to be remem- 
aercd. All the public highway? to Mis^issppi became 



ascend like an universa 
Citizen. 



to He 



IV est 



"Tlin wid tdffcome — it will not wait — 
"Bonds', yok'-s, Mid scourges have the.'r date." 



the nejro, "dat will do; dat according to all de resolu- 
tions." — Children's Miss. Portfolio. 

FACTS. 

In Ohio alone, there are 51 812 more public scholar 
than in, the thirteen slave States. 

In the free States there are 504 Sabbath scholars, 
in the slave States, 82.582 The State of 4 New 
York has twice as many Saddath scolars as the entire 
thirteen slave States. 

After the great break down in 1837, a committee was 

formed to ascertain, as far as possible, the amounts that 
the North lost in an indefinite period in the South. 

It was ascertained that Main New Hampshire and 
Vermont lost about $16,000,000; Massachusetts, Rhode 
Island and Connecticut. $196,000,000: New York. 
$200,000,00.0: New Jersey, $13,000,000: Philidelphia. 
$79;000,000, and Ohio $37,000,000. 

Slavery in this country, between 1840,and lS44,com- 
mitted the wholesale murder of human beings. 

In the chivalrous State of Mississippi, only one of 
every twenty white persons over 21 years of age can 
read. 

The Missionary Society of the American Board, iu 
1S42 received into its treasury upwards of $310,000\ 
Of this sum the free States contributed $303,00O.and 

!he "generous" South $7,000. 

Upon most moderate calculations botween 1820, and 
1^:?0 — a space of ten^fears — not less than 320,347 hu- 
man beirgs were pn maturely worn out and killed on 
the cotton and sugar plantations at the far South. 

The only slave States which have actually diminish- 
;cl the number of felavcs since 1700 are Delaware and 
Maryland^ Delaware hrs lost 70pcr cent: Maryland 14 
per cent The wide increase of slaves in the Union, frota 
17'JD to 1840,18 1 , 123,2 J;y or" 2C6 Tp<.T cci>i.— [True 
Wesley an. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, DECEMBER 9, 1845. 



Hearts iead to the claims of man, cannot be. alive to 
he commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
he ground where humanity "withers. Keep. 



Will the Pennsylvania Freeman, Elevator, and 
\merican Citizen please publish the notice of the New 
lersey State Meeting on the 28 inst. at Trenton. 



:!osed against the claimes of Justice and humanity and 
lew Jersey lose its rank among the Free States ? The 

: rents of the last year ahow that slavery has found a se- 
ire retreat in the high places of our state and her soil 
ade a hunting groudd for Southern Kidnappers- 
We have mither time nor space to mention 
If the raasons why the froemon of the State shou/d 
oie up to Trenton on the 28th. Is it not enough that 
en, women and childeren are bought and so'.d and held 
bondage among us? 

jlf more is necessary, we can call !o mind the fact, 
tkt s/aveholders have just succeeded in accomplishing 
Air nefairous designs of extending Slave Teritories by 
rfc annexation of Texas, and securing the ascendency 
if the Slave power in the Senate of our nation; while 
brts are continued to secure the future control of the 
ler branches of government where they have not the 
atrol already Is this.- a time for Freeman to sleep 
eir posts ? 

Must we call in vain for Jerseymeii to come up to the 
feting? Duty says come ; humanity, justice, phi'an- 
ropy say come; God sayscome. Cannot our friends 
ho have influence, and they all have influence, use it 
get people tip to this meeting. Let not small things 
eap them away. Our object is a great and glorious one 
jjis worthy of great sacrifices. We call upon our 



Anti - Slavery Memorialist. Mo ^V H Mesmerism.- We understand 

that a couple of mesmerizers met With quite 
a mishap at thir exhibition in this place on 
Wednsday night last. At one point of their 
experiments, they undertook to mesmerize 
the arm of one of the subjects, (who was 
one of our town boy?,) and apparntly fixed 
it upon the wall; whereupon something of 
this sort occurred: 

Mes'r.-(To the boy.) Take down xmr 8£r«i 
Sir. 

Boy — i can t. 

Mes'r. — (To the audience .) Th* you:/g 
mairs arm is magnetiyed. will stme gentle- 
man' be so good to request aim to take it 
down' 

A spectaor — (In an ironical tone.)— Tal'e 
down yore arm Johnny. 
Boy — I can t Sir. 

Mes'r.-If'any gentleman wilt put half dollar 
near the subject, if be is able to pick it p 
he may have it and I will return the mariey 
Here a gentleman put dawn a half doilar 
two others a quarter each.] 
Mes'r.-Now ( Sir, pick vzp- the money and 
you may hav it. jonny stooped down pock- 
eted the cash and "walked off in A-iumph 
He was unmesmrizedL.-Prov. G:t/v 



Emancipation in Kentucky — A large meeting was 
i held in Mason county, Ky., on the 13th inst. to con- 
j sider the subject of emancipation and the suppression of 
{ Cassius M. Clay's paper. The closing resolution was 
j in the following words : — 

I Resolved. — That we regard gradual emancipation, 
accompanied with colonization, as the true and only 
true policy of Kentucky ; and we confidently hope that 
the time may come when this great system will be 
established by the peoplcjof this State. The discussion 
of its propriety and the time when that discussion is to 
commence, are matters which should be left entirely to 
individual judgment, under the promptings of an en- 
lightened patriotism. When that discussion does com- 
mence, it should be faithfully protected by law. 



We tall tho attention of the friends of freedom 
a New Jersey to the notice of the Annual Meeting of 
lie State Anti-Slavery Society to be held Trenton on i 
hb 28th of January, with more than ordinary earnest- 1 

t L s It is of the greatest importance to the cause of 

' . 0i . ,, . r,. ,„^,„„,, ,,f I "Let any inan of spirit and feeling f(>r a moment cast 

fe Slave. m our State, that iieeman should make an ei- / f . b 

Mnoxo a good meeting at Trenton this wihter cannot \ hl3 thou S hts over tins land ot slavery- think of the na- 

. otherwise than productive of great good. j k ¥** ° f sol » c > tllft hun( J"J yearnings of others, the 

New Je-sey is still, according to, the last legal de- \ft owin 9 teo " a » d heavi *<J "S^ ot P»* in g relations, the 

kion a SLAVE STATE. Shall it continue to be so | Tailings and ico, the bloody cut of the keeu lash, and the 

tail the last legal refuge, of the slave* in the State be' frightful scream that rends the very shies — and all this, to 



TESTIMONY OF B. SWAIN, ESQ., NORTH 
CAROLINA. 



gratify ambition, lust, pride, ararice, vanity, and other 
■depraved feelings of the human heart.... THE 
WORST IS NOT GENERALLY KNOWN. 

Were all the miseries, the horrors of slavery, to burs* 
at once into view, a peal of seven-fold thunder could 
scarce strike greaterjalarin." — See "Swains Address," 
1830. . • 

STUBBOKN FACTS. 



Statistics of War.. 



At the last Presidenhal election, the Free states cast „„...,, __„'ii. „ 'a 

, onnno* * rujin i < i t * i smith " makes tne lol Jo-.vuio 

1.89O,0S4, votes, and had 161 electors, — one elector to 



Tlie Learned 11 \n k. 
ooamit'at ion s 



.the economy of war: — "The war-*iebt.s < i 

The slave states cart 70S,848 votes and had 105 elec- 1 the Europeau _ nat it >BS amount s $ ! 0 r 
tors — one elector to 7,608 votes 

Thus seven thousand sieve holders had as much in- 
fluence as eleven thousand freemen! Every two south* 
c rn voters were equal to three northern voters! Is it not 
lime to carry this question to the polls; 
New Hampshire at the last Presidential election cast 
-10,273 votes and chose six electors, — S,213 votes to 
each elector- Louisiana at the same time, gave 29,29^5 
votes and chose six electors — one elector to 4,382 votes 

So that every Louisiana voter is eqnivalent to two 
New Hampshire freemen in the choice of President; 
How do you like this feature fin onrj government, ye 
democrats, who believe in equality of political rights; 



Are vou ready to add a batch of slave states from the 
ids in Burlington, Crosswicks, Allontown, Wood- j iorrJ ' tory of texas everv 1 voter in which shall have 

Salem, and throughout all West Jersey <o | hvicf! or lhrice as 111U€h " political ])0Ave ae a free yoter 
e np to that meeting irf great numbers full ^ of zeal j of New Hampshire ? Are you ready to give the ab- 
^'' )Pr, y- i solute control of the general government, irretf.iev- 

Tappaa, A. A. Phelps and others of New York | ABLY AND F0 ^ E v ER) the hands ofo the men-owners 
liam Elder and Samuel Aaron of Philadelphia w ith j G f ;} IC south ? 
)V others have been invited to attend the meeting,] 

We have full •confidence to believe tliat it will be a j The whole number ef slaveholders who are voters, is 
Stable meeting for the bleeding s?ave. Will Jersey- j said not to exceed 75,000; while there are, in the free 
n stay away from this meeting, and say they are for j S'ates, near a million of voting freem 



m. 



>artial Liberty. 



Liberty for all? Can thy\lo it ? 



"Indiana Freeman." 

Indiana Freeman has be.cn enlarged, and also 
•d its subcription price to $2 a year. That is right, 
♦w looks respectable. The paper is a good ope, 
our Indian:; friends ought not [,\-v it to languish. 
De Puj-, its editor, is a self-denying mnn.Cin- 
« Herald. 

De Puy "wasTOoLL'.-d not long since in the streets 
lianapolis while at the seme time an inoffensive 
•d msn was shot and it, Tlv sc are'; reason:- 

ient wbv the oiiP'-r J..:': .: :•; rr.Urec-J, and w, 



in 

Yet these 

I few slaveholders rule, withfabsolute sway the whole 
j laud;— engross most of the offices, Sponge up most of 
the oflices'of government. How long must we submit 
jtoit — Sig. o f Liberty. 

All the votes for polk and Clay in 
1844 gained by the state ot Arkansas, 
added together, do not eqnal the Liberty 



000. It would require the labour of :<n,r 
millions of men, 15 0 bear annum for ipac-h 
man,'o pay the interests- of this sum at tiper 
ceut. To pay the p.viaeiqal, in would he ne- 
cessary to levy a «t$x of at least ten tlolars 
on every inhabt'iaat of the globe! Another 
fact, rendering tlas more impressiv\ inavbo 
found in the sera ps of curious information 
that no heathen natios are in arrears for the 
butcheries they have perpetractd on liio 
human race, t hey pay cash bown for all 
tha£ is done for th« devil under therahand:?. 
Christian natio ns Sflone "go on tick" Jbv t!ta t 
kind of service. 

From March 4 : th, 1739, to june ^th, 1M I , 
our Government expended on the wan Dei 
partment $6G S/438,851. The interest of tins 
sum, at 6 per t cent, would build Whitny's- 
great railroad from the Lakes to the pacif- 
ic, of 25 miles inlenth , at $15,000 per jui;l 
and thus evbci a highway for tlia coirtrnftfco* 
and com mi m real, ion oftlie familjfofnatioriSi; 
which she aid be- rec koned in a!! corairtg.-, 
time one of the greatest enterpsises ihat 
ever blessed the race." 



A Favored State 
The vote: of Texas is set down at forfyfiw 
hundred.. She has two representativss Ar- 
kansas gave over fifteenMhotisand at the 
vole in (he state of ?vcw York at the late j l P<s t P. residential election. She had b;it one 
elect ion. Our party cast moe votes at the representative, we suppose that one Texan,, 
late election, than the- Way party' gave toj i s as good as four Kentuchians according 

to this rule* Ait people who in tlfetr constitu- 



Cay^or t!ie-Po!k pa tv gave loPoik in the 
whole state of Louisiana in 1844, by, more 
(hail 2,000 Trite American. 

emar.cipafiit.g his 
Amen, 1 

hen hy gjt irantee '<( all my slaves their iibert.v, hearti 



JOHN RANDOLPH'S will, emar.ci 
'.avrs, bc::in» .'I;t!s: "In- die 'name of ;fJoc 



regfetfig 



that i haVe ever.bee 



eivncr of cms. " 



provide thai vi:o legislature shall have no 
power • to pas* "laws for the emancipation 
f slaves and who in their bill of riglils de- 
clare, that freemen havoequal rights', oug'hs 

a 



;o Be fovore d 
man.. a Ineri t is 



Thp te ; 
dovoliei 



:. bow a days of 
to t lavej v. 




l or Liberty Si&ada 

Never despair, there's a God who rules o'et us, 
Blessing Oft eftbrtn when niede to his will, 
Opening the pathway of duty before us, 
Helping us onwaruo'ur task to fulfill. 
Whit though the legions of earth shall oppose us, — 
What though the Prince of the power the air 
Strikes with the vengence and hate that he owes us, 
',God is our shield," let us never despair. 

What though success for to-day be denied us, 
What though defeat and contempt be our lot. 
What thougn Uie world in its madness deride us. 
Let us look upward, and thus head it not. 
No human voice for the right has e'er spoken, 
No human weapon for justice been hur/ed, 
No human lance has for freedom been broken, 
Thut hay not been a blessing, to- truth and the world. 

Who will look back o'er the history of ages 
Filled with defeat, and with sorrow and pain, 
And say as he weeps and laments o'er tho pages, 
That effort defeated wasever in vain : 
Where is (he tyrant whose knees have not trembled 
As he thought of Spartans who died for the right ? 
Why are tho noble.* of England assembled ? 
The Spirit of Curreu has filed them with fright. 

Why are the tyrants of Cuba no shaking? 
Placido has gone to his place of repose,-- 
But his murderers know that his spirit is waking"! 
The oppressed of all climes to a sense of their woes. 
They know full well, that "tho' dead,heyet speaketh" 
In ^ones that will louder, and still louder grow, 
'Till a spirit is roused that for liberty seeketh, 
And slaveholding tyrants shall fall with the blow. 

Then let us labor, what'er miy befal us, 
"God, and the right," let our motto still be ; — 
Dangers and troubles shall never appal us 
'Til the anthem of Earth is the song of^thys Free. 
Life |s t);e season for action, for trial, 
All for our good are its dangers, its care 5 
The?iew«rd is for those who though all self-denial 
Still labour on, — let us never despair. 



temperance Kecoa*(l, 

The difference. 

«<THE&E f GOES' A fK'fbf 

A lii-.UNKAui; assailed a Washingtonian, but eould 
only say, "There goes a tetotaler !" The , gentleman 
waited until a croud had coliectcd,and then turned upun 
the drunkard said, "There stands a drunkard! Three- 
years ago he had a sum of $800, now he cannot product 
a penny. I know he cannot. I challenged him todo„it 
for if he had a penny he would be at a public house'. 
There stands a drunkard, and here stands a tetotaler 
with his pnrse full of money, honestly earned, and care- 
fully kep/. There stands a drunkard! — 
Three vearsago he had a watch, a coat, shoes and de- 
cent clothes; now he has nothing but rag.j upon upon 
him, his watch is gone and his shoes afford free passage 
to the water. There stands a drunkard, and here stands 
a tetotaler; with a good hat, good shoes, good clothes, 
and a good watch, all paid for. Yes there stands a t; - 
totaler! And now my friends; which has the best of it?" 
The bystanders testified thetr approval of the tetQtafer 
by loud shouts, while the crest-fallen drunkard slunk 
away too happy to escape further castigation. Tem. Aim- 



THE WELCOME BACK. 
Sweet is the hour that brings us home, 

Where all will spring to meet us; 
Where hands are striving as we come, 

To be the first to greet us. 
When the world has spent its frowns and wrath, 

And care been sorely prsesing; 
'Tis sweet to turn from our roving path, 

And find a fire-side blessing. 
Oil, joyfully dear is the homeward track, 
If we are but sure of a welcome back- ■ 
Indiana, Freeman. 



THE ANTI SLAVERY ALMANAC, 

for 18-10, is just; published by FINCH & WE El), 118 
Nassau Street New»York, and for sale by them, whole- 
sale arid retail. They are also for sale at the office of 
theJI'V. emau in Bocntcrs. 

Every anti slavery man in the State should constitute 
himself an agent for the sale and distribution of tin's Al- 
mimac. Let this be done without delay. 

Smoked to Death. -Mr. Christopher Sewell 
<xf Boston, tiled n few days sinc-fjfforn the ef- 
fect of smoking cigars to an immoderate ex- 
tent He had often consumed thirty a day 
which pernicious practice brought on so gr- 
eat a defollfty that lie died from flhe rupture 
of a small blood vessel. — Lib. Prist 



It is stated that a man some where dc»wn in Cape 
Cod, has drank ninety one thousand nine hnndred and 
eighty three glasses of rum in the last thirty years. 
The cost would amount to near six thousand dollars, 
and we venture to say he is not worth a six-pence, Btods 
fault with hard times, and wonders why he cannot get 
alone in the world. — Bochestcr American. 



A rather red nosed man walked into a store in the 
pleasant village of South bridge, the other day, and in- 
quired for cheese. "Walk into the other room and 
select one for yourself, replied the accommodating shop 
keeper The man passed in, selected his cheese, put it 
into his bag, returned into the front shop, and laid it on 
the counter. Some "cold wafer" men who where pres- 
ent, however, becoming rather suspicious determined 
to know what kind of cheese the man kept. According- 
ly one. of the maa managed to move the bag that it 
fell on the floor, when lo ! the cheese , broke "'all to 
smash" the glass rattled — the red nosed man looked 
white — the white shop keeper looked red. ;>nd both 
toookod blue. The cold water men looked on for a mo- 
ment to wituess their confusion, and then departed, lea- 
ving the cheese dealer and his customer "alone in their 
glory." 

We would advise those who patrpnize this cheese 
shop in future, to to take something better than a glass 
bottle to get their cheese in. — Dew Drop. 



CONNECTICUT. 



^ointment 01 



At the late town meetings held for ap. _ 
license commissioners, the temperance ticket glorious- 
ly prevailed in Hartford, New iJaven, New London, 
Norwich, Meriden, Bridgeport, Sufiicld, Wethersfirkh 
Sharon, Farmingion, Bristol, Litchfield, Milford, and 
a large proportion of the state. Rumselling will soon 
be outlawed in New England. 



Clay. 



!» »*t i :gU ll » l . ll .SB B ft l ftg-L ' .J. 

-SLAVER 1 TKACTSb" The following 

To: t.;ilc at thisofliee. by the Lib- 

Condition of Living, «f . 

The c,aUse of Hard times, •- i /,» ,. jJ . , 

Influence of Slave power 

One more appeal to Christians & Churohoa, 

Bible Policies. 

Jewish Servitude. 

Smith k. Clarkson. ' .. i/ii-iT^ffc ' 

Persons hfi/d to service. 
Loyal National Rapea! Assoeiatio%^iCTB^?Jf*] 
Duties and Dignities of American Freemen, 
111 Treatment, of People of color in the U. S. 
Testimony ofa Southern Witness. C. M. Clay, 
The lawlessness of slavery. 
Poems on S.'avcry by Longfellow. ' 
The Missouri ComprcaiisewV' MiiN •f&f$t(p''tJ 
Smiths Constitutional Argument. >4}«l.\;j* 
Two cents Postage c u Juki « tfctLiift^i 
Addreis to the People?of Kentiicky by C. M, 



§5> The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 

has made preparations to do^i good work for liberty 
the comming year. - ■- ; '' , vj t Jf|f&M 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 
gent and Editor of the Anti Slavery Reporter. • The 
Reporter is an excellent paper published monthly at 
11S Nas.;au street N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year for a single 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies $ 
3,50. and 50 copias for $ 12,50.. subcriptions will bo 
received at this oilice. ,.' -..It ai--**J*USF*>) 



AJNTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened^an 

oflice for the sale of Anti Slavery Books, ' Pampldets 
Tracts &lc. at 118 Nassau Stroct, New York, Let them 

be well' patronized. ' - 



"What are you doing, Jane?" 

"Why, pa, I'm going to dye my pin-a-fore red." 

"Pu,t what have you got to dye it with? 

"Beer, pa." . " . 

"Beer! who cn earth told you that beer would dye 

"Why ma said yesterday it was beer /that made 



your nop; 



so red, and 1 thouflht"- 



Exit papa, fluffing his nose very tcdy-hiy. 



CU1HCUS CAUSE OF IMPRISONMENT. 

The N, Q. Picayun^ in mentioning the ar;iv;:l of a 
brig from Jamaica, says: "The crew 01 this vessel, ah 
blacks to a men, were at once placed in the caffnbrjbsi 
here until the vessel is ready u>r tie's again." — U Wth 
Citizen, 



MODERN PilOTESTANT CHURCH COURTS, 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of EccLsiaa'.ical bodies in the ProtesUnt 

church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale af this oi£ce, price 31 cents. c 

CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be. read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 

Freeman Of!ic;>, Booctonj N. J. 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 

-He Freeman, Boonton, N. J. 



\ ;/ strel. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel are for 
sale at this office, • , 

Tils is superior to any thing of the kind we hare 
seen, and sboud be in the possession of everyone that 
teves good :niisic, and loves to make a good use of it 
Pike, 4-4 cents. 



Bimnlon Washington. Tcmperam* Bcnes- 
tlent Sucicty, — meets every Monday eve- 
aing in the Free Church. D .C. Norm, 
Pfosideiit, Riarctis Kvarts Sccrelwy. 

Btiovton Libarlii. Associution, — meets tUe 
first Friday evening of every month.. 

At. Evarls, Presidcrd, C. B. Nwris, 





v ol. 2. 



BOOiVTON, FEBRUARY 1 



1846. 



NO. K 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Moiris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 

SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NEW 
JERSEY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

In presenting our seventh Annual Report we feel 
that we have great reason to acknowledge pur obliga 
tions to God for his goodness towards us as a Society. 

Although there has not been that general tngageded- 
ness in the cause of Liberty during the past year, that 
we could wish; yet we trust that the efforts which have 
been made will not prove to be entirely useless. We 
are thankful thiit we are enabled to cast even a small 
weight of influence into the scale of free dim and the 
longer we live, we are more thoroughly convinced of 
the necesity of the greatest activity &thf most untiring 
effort in order to accomplish the work before us. 

We have commenced an enterprise which we must 
not, and cannot abandon until our efforts have been 
crowned with entire success. We commend it for the 
the sake of others, whose deprivations and miseries en- 
listed our deepest sympathies; but we soon found that 
we must continue it for our own sakes as well as theirs. 
We had no conception when we began to labor in this 
cause, that the fitters were already forged for us. 

BUI We SUUII AjUIld «-'■ — ';- "'"'"''-f Q 

000.000 of our fallow men should be held in Slavery 
we had well nigh brought our necks into the yoke We 
found thai not unlv the Declaration - f Independence 
wjs regarded as a Rhetorical flonrish, 1 ut the Bdl of 
Rights of eyorv state was c r«aly unmeaning and inope- 
rative in all it said aLout freedom of speech &the liberty 
of the press. 

As we have gone on from year to year there 
have been n. w deployments of the slave power un- 
til we have found it ramified throuhoul all the depart- 
ments of church and State. It legislates in the Sen- 
ate chamber; it directs the arm of executive power; it 
controls the derision of the ballot box, it pr.-acho*, yen, 
prays in the pulpit; it pleads at the bar it gives the de- 
cisions from the bench & the verdict from the jury-box, 
jt incarcerates some of the nobtest sons and daughters, 
Ojf our land in its .gloomy prisons for doing 1 that which 
Qod's law, and which if done on the c ast of bn.bary 
«o>lld be applauded by all good men as heroically virtu- 
ous; it sails our na* y and marches our army, both of 
which are created and sustained at an enormous expencw 
solely to protect and extend the slave interests: It tran- 
scends the constitution, it violates the constitution, it 
tramples the constitution under foot. 

In a word the slave power originating in the despo- 
tism of two hundred and fifty thousand whites over 
three millions of colored men has by its subtle and gras- 
ping efforts gained a controling influence throughout 
our land. 

But its encroachments have aroused an undying op- 
position- Thirteen years ago a little band of true hear- 
ted men and women pledged them selves to labour for 
the overthrow of the system of oppression Sinse then 
the contest has gone on with success, but with a con- 
stant increase in the number, influence, & efficiency of 
the friends of liberty. They have thrown ablaze of ligh' 
over the land. They havedaboured to good purpos. 
in exposing the hidden abominations of Slavery. The\ 
have dragged cruel laws, and more cruel practices into 



he open light of Heaven. They have succeeded in 
,,>me signal instances in thwarting the machinations oi 
ippression. They have in some cases procured the en- 
ictmentof rightous laws & the repeal of unrightous ones 
They have helped thcusands on their way toward th< 
polar star of freedom; and last, not least they have 
>hown at the ballot-box that they held the balance of 
power between contending parties; & that they were 
letermined to use it for the deliverance of the slave. 

Seven years ago this society enlisted in the Anti-Sla- 
.'ery enterprise as a State organization. 

Since the last Annual meeting we have held a sem' 
Annual and two Quarterly meetings. The semi-annu 
il and one quarterly meeting were held in Newark. 
The other quarterly meeting was held in Paterson. Ir 
addition to these, several other meetings have been heli" 
by local societies, and some by the people, where then 
ire no organizations. In Morris County the peopl- 
held Anti-slavery celebration on the Fourth of July in 
Boonton. 

We trust that all these meetings have had seme in- 
fluence to advance the cause. We believe however 
hat more can be accomplished at present by holding 
our quarterly aud semi-annual meetings iu country 
pl*c<s than in large towns and cities. 

The committee have employed no regular agent du- 
ring the year to labor in any part of the State. They 



gave his voice in favour of liberty. 

An appeal from this decision, to the court of Errors is 
contemplated; but it is yet undecided whether such ap- 
peal be taken, until the funds can be provided to carry 
it through. It rests with this meeting to decide 
that question. 

B:it a small sum of money is needed to defray the 
xpenses as two eminent counsellors have offered their 
services gratuitously to argue the case before the Court. 

The committee trust that the meeting will only need 
'.o understand the true state of the case in order to fur- 
nish all nesasary means, that it may proceed forthwith. 
Itis believed that at the present time one of the most ef- 
ficient ways of advancing the cause of liberty, is the em- 
ployment of well directed efforts to secure judicial de- 
cisious in its favour. It was in this way that Slavery 
was overthrown in England. A Succession of decis- 
ions in favour of freedom gaduallv weakened the Slave 
power until it was finally overthrown by the famons 
decision of Lord Mansfield that "a Slave cannot breath 
in England." 

Justice is the same all the world over. It is the 
same here that it is in England. All that is Wanting to 
secure the same decision in our own country, is the 
right kind of effort persoveringly directed. Legislative 
enactments & judicial decisions have erected the barri- 
ers around the slave power, and the same means are re- 



are however of the opinion that if a -suitable person j quired to throw them down. But we can never 



could be employed to hold meetings and leciure , es- 
pecia ly in the coun'ry villag<s and school districts, 
great good might be accomplished by it. 

The New Jersev Freeman has b. en r- gularly pub- 
'ished at Boonton once a month by John Grimes. The 
c< mmittee feel that this pap.r is a valuable auxiliary to 

wie cauac, aii.*tv un. Msnc m 

tween its publicati n somewhat long. It is published 
however, mostly at the individual expense of the Edit- 
or, and consequently must be burdensome to him; the 
subscription list as yet being very limited. The com- 
mittee would recommend to the friends of the cause, 
that they make some special effort td increase the num- 
of subscribers. 

We have endeavoured to secure tie freedom of the 
enslaved within our own borders. 

New Jersey is a Slave State. Between three and 
four thousand persons are held in Slavery; a part of 
them are held ui.der the name of apprentices but all of 
them in reality slaves. 

We believe that the new'constituton rightly inte rpre- 
ted would set them free, but such ai interpretation has 
not as yet been allowed. It is in oir state as it is in the 
general government that pro Slavev pervertions pre- 
vail in place of just interpretations. During past year 
we have had the question tried in tfe supreme court of 
the State. 

It came up by two writs of habea corpus, the one in- 
volving the constitutionality of slavry & the other of 
the apprenticeship system. 

Tne case was argued before the Supreme Court at 
Trenton on the 21 & 22 of May lat 

Alvan Stewart Esq. of the Statof New York acted 
as counseller & advocate for the Sve and apprintice & 
afforded his own services gratuitoily. His able and 
■Iqueut argument ©n that occasionas been publishe & 
i large number of copies put into rculation. 

The judgement of the court wagiven in July. It 
iffcrmed the constitutionality of sWy & the apprenti- 
ceship system in our state. 

This opinion however was not lanimous. It was 
not ev< n a judgement of the majoy of the court. 

One of the Judges declined votj on the questior 
lot having heard the argument lother was abscn 
.vhen the decision was givi n & ou:enerable chief Jus* 
lice dissented from the judgement his co'leaguts S 



< x- 

pect to obtain the repeal of unjust laws, or fh • enact- 
ment of those which are rightous until the t"o-r,Vai. s of 
Legislation are purified. The friends of Liberty .re 
begining to feel very extensively, that there is bfit one 
way to accomplish this. Thatis bv carrying their prin- 
ciples to the Ballot-box and electing just men tp enact 
°'h' [^p.jate the laws. 

small number who stand firm"and"we dou'bt nVfbut'lhe 
time approaches when the cause of humanity will pre- 
vail at the pol's and in our legislative halls. At pres- 
ent we can on v hold on our course and say "Godspeed 

the day." * , 

Our State still continues to be the huntiixr ^round . f 

11*1 

the kidnapper, and some of our inhabitants have during 
the past year, been dragged, y way with out even the 
forms of law, into hopeless Slavery 

In looking abroad beyond the borders of our own 
State we behold on one side the desperate struggles < f 
Slav, ry to sustain its existence, and increase its power, 
while on the other, legions of liberty are gathering 
strength aud presing forward with the assured conrld. n- 
ce of ultimate succtss. All that Slavery can do to savt.- 
herself from the crushi g u eight of a worlds indignation., 
she does. National honor or individual rights, are of 
no account, when they conflict with her selfish interests 
she sacrifices them both without a scruple. We ha\e 
one proof of this in the Annexation of Ter.as. This 
great scheme of villany has been accomplished. A 
neighbouring nation while on terms of au.iiy with us 
has been robbed of large extensive & fertile provinces, 
for the purpose of throwing the balanc e of power in th« 
hands of Slaveholders. But even this does not satisfy 
their unprincip'ed rapacity. Scarcely has the act of 
annexation passed before propositions are brought for- 
ward for obtaining Cuba & Calafornia, while at the 
same time every obstacle is thrown in the v ay of the 
settlement of the Oregon question, lest the undisputed 
possession of that Territory should extend in reallity 
the area of Freedom. 

Another proof of this has been given in the conduct 
if the Govcrnmen of Virginia which sanctioned the 
lawless violence of her citizens v ho crossed the Ohio 
river and violated the Territory of Ohio by sei;;in^ three 
•itizens of that State and convey ng (h< m to a Virginia 
prison for the alb dged oftence of assislir rr some fuei- 
dvs slaves. 




I V il & 



Tfie history of tHFpasFyfear presents-- s- me glaring 
•^.n n^ of tlP 5i obition of individua l rights in the a' 
tempts wlilcTs haVebei'n 'mailc' io^M uMVII thi fettVum. 
of speech and the press.., An Irishman hy the nan., 
of O'Meira iva.-i imprisoned in Savanna!, for f>m ak;i, 
his "mind on the subject of slavery, though, no cl.arg. r 
were brought against kfni that he did ii in an oilensiv, 
manner.' The mob aft mpted to gel possession of l.h 

In the state of Kentucky a large mob, headed b: f 
many of Hie hading men in the s a.e, with the . rcaU v 
coolness and deliberation removed the printing pre s ol 
the True Amercan fn m Lexing t<m and had it tranpoi- 
ted to Chacinniui. Tl.i* was. done \vhil" Cossius M! 
Clay, the Editor of that papvr v. as p|pstia|^ «' on a fc. «' 
of sickness with v?ry luila prospect of his recovery. j ' 

In the stale of Miss, do .Is of harharpui cjrasli* 
been p rpetated, worthy the barbarity of he most >u\ 
age tiibes. Some time about the month of Slav, th. 
house of a Mr. Wade of Prospect Hill was burned, 
and some negroes were suspected of having set the housi 
onrfire. These negroes had belonged to Capl. Ross 
Wade's Grandfather, who had ljberajted them at his 
death and ordered that they should be .-cot 1 Liberia. 
Wade had retained them notwithstanding a law suit I y 
the decision of which they had been adjudg 
as ordered in the iv ill. 
of having fired the !. ; / i> • 
Wade in retaining tle-m. 
from then, by pom ing 
threainieg them withiiistai 
non. Some of them were then i 
era were Shot. 

One would suppose tpa! 
perpetrated such atrocities WQuld 
ba'uon of all who profess any regi 
no! the demon of Slavery fin 



les. 
The Am 




th 
in 



Wh'.t!.' 
rot-ro- 



ican Board of C ommissioncrs for Foreign 
;i^^L, Id tin ir yeariy Srtee^n^ 4,t J.*W*1J nA<W y 
,.rk in Sept. "efl'brts 'vrere' made 18 fndiftjettsem-t***^" 

15 ms Ives irvm eonmeetion p iihSJ^'e^. } , ( ^^ost the 
hple time of their meeting for several days was occu 
pied in discussing llie subject w hen th. y declined taking' 
uJ. anion and virtually and impliedly they gave the; 
luinlmdus countenance to Slave- Holding, 'ihey pro 
ssed in their report, to disapprove of Slave y as j 
vs.. to; ai.d Where it is sustained by a community the;, 
undemn the community as a body while theyapprov. 
1)4 conduct of indivdual slave holders who compose tht 
ummunity and pronounce them worthy of christian 
1 liowship. l4i ^io ■iisl'i & en •»',-i<i\Mir> v 

These i re some of the things which the enemies oi 
; heriy are doing. They may protract the struggle, 
hey mav for a while prop up the falling system of op- 
pression but they cannot save it. The days of slavery 
ire numbered and the siuns of the times indicate a 
Sole dy dissolution. Indeed these very things are to 
lur minds most encouraging evidence of the onward pro- 
gress of our e ause. 

The treat enthusiastic Liberty Conventions which 
have- been hvld^dtfririg the'-«>aar shtf>y tbt^.p ople are 
awtitfh* 'ai i # fcf isihg \ih l«amght,fr 
t. !■« of oppress ton-. .* ' ( .neiunat:, at t ori. - m 

rind at BbstonitlwMe '.sferetiwbjft^gafJifliiti^.^.J^ii, 
pfeonle, vi ho come by thoosatids to , manifest, f^-^ 
j fUka 8 jmr^setfc overtbrdw Slavery. 

Th- .ostabl'shment and t .u;co.ssft.l operation oi 
;•. ss-iis M. CUu's paper in Ken ucky, r.o wi.hs'an.'- 
Hi-.g 'ihe , fWh>''^ ^"«*# theviyress and other otioit.- to o- 
v -throw b; tbe- crganiza km of a Liberty Parly 
of vot' rs in Virginia; aim od.i r, mow meats in the bor- 
Siatrs hfangag a Miuhar < nd in view, an- tut of en 



But among tli$- efibrts'for the- suppression of this j&c- 
..!•>. d traflie we would mention with peculiar satisfac- 
, ionj the establishmefil of flte ' "rtlfendi A'Jis»W)F«M*«== 
L|k| || t ^.f the R ev. Win. Raymond at Shetbro on* 
: e \\ est coast of"ATr!ca~ab'ouToBe tftBUl'PtHmles from—-, 
•sierra L# ne / ^^^'f '| ^^f 1 froro-tiisjiunj 
Wry about four yt ars ago, and already his lnfloenW on 
hat part of the coast 1 as eoi.tributed not a little to the 
«p],ression of the s'ave trade. In consequence of s.ate- 
Klfts made by him, th^ slave factory at Sea Bar has 
:>een destroyed; and under his plain and faithful preach- 
n°- upon this subject, seme of the Chiefs have b gun lo 
tremble in fear of future retribution. 

In the North of Africa the Bey of Tunis has entirely 
ihblished Slavery in his dominions. 

In view of a'l these things wefeel that there is the 
greatest encoitragemet to press onward. The prospects of 
our cause were never more favourable either in pur own 
country or in foriegn lands than at this moment. But 
we trust that whether there' be few or many visible to 
kens for good, the friei.ds of Liberty will-not only ton- 
linue their eCbrts, but redouble them, for the sale of 
he Slav-, and for their own sakes. We have entered 
into a contest where ir-'re 




where il -re is r.o retreat. If wo fail "ion- a 
let. ". ' - n r.; rest assured that the iro» •»* 
r.. 'w ■;: only 1 ti-amp'e down *he ^rigfctflt«.d 
-v v African descent, hut it will grind.*.* sic 
'. the in. When wfitfiest flM^-tw 
-1 - | ;-.hd proclaim d'o*r aiotlg..,,j 

ait the brotherhood-fofadl 
t : .i 4 e had encountered a .dfttQi^, 
v.v f... .;:,(] every succeeding year has- 
te $fi i i. the belief that we Rqrd«. R 
na • v. isi'.e:- and more than human pow- 
su.ccs. hut we doubt not,- that, ^Ije.d, 
God ofinfinjte eve, will gran', us every needed grace,, - 
bat we may secure a speedy and glorious triumph. 



man w < 
miir i! at 
only s< I 
more ti.a 
er to sjiv 



By ord 



of the Executive committee. 

Henry Belden, Cor. .Sec, 



give movement. Sixty years ago w n; n "h" friends of 
humanity in Gr at Bri.ain were labor. n? to overthrow 



Cool'. — The New Jersey Freeman asks the Pent 



humanity m Gr at Bn.am «, laoot. to ovult-.w ,!, ; nson v,nia Freeman to give a notice of the next meeting of 

the African Slave Trade, a man named P. Hants v , C„ P t Walker ha a! o bee. de ..red |» Mg ^ state Society-Liberiv party. Thould the editor^ oi 
was then clerk in a Slave house 5, Liverpool vie; „ue* He ,nu,v, t,.e e,s welcome oo, shores be- & J ' > agrees- with 



had been formerly a clergyman, and a ffMiit wrote a 
' book to prove ilihf the enslaving of the m groes wa- 
ponkstent with the Bible'.' (vid C!arks< n> List. \ ii. 2 
page 89.) This fact is mentioned in the history ot the 



cause be bears the marks of Southern Spr/c. 

The validity of Jbp. Randolph's will which has long 
.-en c»s,t< !■ « ,! is st last selthdand some SOO'tff n •<>:•> 
i.-ivi-, have been delivered ou of the bands of thost 



iuho heldtlfin in bmdage. 

times as an awfu' mstancc ofd T rovtty. But now in en ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ft( ^ ^ ^ T i,!ing> 

eiiantend christian America, not merely a tens gad e Jet-- 1 ^, fW „„ ^.j,.^! our hearts Lave ccme uneven fron 



•emgaoe . t> ( , | )at naV( . g a dd,-nd our hi aris \ ave ccme v 
Hit but Presb. Methodist fr.ptis & Kf iseor^! 5 oclor»J !, ^ S i. ive markietg «f Brazil. H< nry A. « 
Divinitv and Professors in Colleges and 8*»'nft«t*, <•<• sa() orto the court a]Rio Janeiro, bimse'f 

Iff. i ■ i i -.. ii. t. *..c!al!iK\i'nt.lO:mi , i . 



j.'ivmuv ano rioic»sy.a >n 

the same thing and glory in their sham-v Asl/iilisuatioiu. I 
. f this which have accurrrd during the year we may :.o~ 
ti'ce the proceedings of a convention of Methodist Min- 
ister held ot Louis-vide, Kentucky, which result' d^ m 
the sepe.ation of the great l-ody of the churches of ti.at 
connection in the Slave States Irom their brethren m, 
the Free States.- The occasion of this division wa:- 
solelv the refusal of the northern portion of tin- di nom 
lhation to have a slave holder for a Bishop. 

The result has been the division of that large eec'.cse 
' astica! body into two parts. Histobe regretved ho- 
over that while the North, ffi eoe.fej-.-nees I ave become 
sep- rat, d from the Southern, en acto»,m of their Ami 
eiaverv tendencies they l ave not purge. 1 , themselves, 
from the sin o' slavebolding. s. vera- of tin- border erne 
trances «h:ch be on Both **d*»s of Mason and Diw>n 
line are composed in part of nread.e.t,. am. ii.< mbu - 
who continue to llraft'ic m lire b' dies anil .-• «• ■• el n.t i. 

The old school General Assembly of^be I'.esby u-. ,ai 
Church at their m-eling i-. May, acted in a i:-.a::.,e- pei 
fectly consistent wrhthe u::. :.:y. ii^ p.o .v-'av <> cours. 
which they have pursued for s -J : 
they took soine.m v, s.eps and wen: ,_■■<•' t'ouet, far'.l«-i 
than ever before, that s.-nv. of .heir Pf; h|jjj;'-J s : "fi 
coresponding etch vast.^i '<;.<: i : tv' r, ' l ' : \ !l 1 ; ; ' 

They gave their direct sa:ic;ion and ;'| ; |.i"oyal el the 
practice of holding Slaves. , They < :.pr< ts th. .i um» 
probation of what they are pit as. d to regale, as 0.1 us- s: 
But the institution ofslave.v rtself, .they \ rentmce a 
o-oef iiiir.V. Hviprtje ncnction of CI i\& U. Itis Ap-s- 



fi on 
bas 
lolder 



and hitherto a detemini d supporter of the Slav .- power 
' "aseiiusirtl id' Ids Herg'os U> expose and I reak dov\n 
Slave trade het+ee»« the coast of Africa and. -1118! 
■. ountrv. l"n 'be p>>gress of th's buisness he has made 
vorue astonishing tiscisur- s ir.piieatiue merci.au-.s in 
New Yoii. and; JLiojon and in England as being eng; gpd 
in tl./e traflie. Mr. Vise has carri d >n an 'extensive cor- 
respondence with ur gove'rnin nt and h(^ declares thai 
if he can be sustaitd in bis efforts he -will so exposi 
he .-no: rniies of th trade as 'o wake up the iiiebga lioi 
of the whole Ameevm p. o^ie. Vv.- mu.-t eonfesi tba 
all this would soujl iwuch more pjeasopt in our ear 
i .Mr. Wise bad^oinmefited bis aril! African-Slav. ■ 
i;:. 1 .. operatianS htr'aiismiting a deed of m-.numissioi. 
;o those whom I lio ds in bondage on bis oui 
■ .lan-ation. Hut vht-vei may be his motives, or i.ow- 
ver his rtii'its uv succeed &l, Washington ue can- 
•iot but rejoic hi a- Pfi^j^ct of great good grpwip!g 0,0 

The British go-rthnent sti'l continue their efibrta t« 
op-press the slavurtde on the cp:>st of Africa. i t i 
^.'iira ].. one Wahmaii of A ig. 30th. says that sine: 
he strength ol f . squadron was augmented by ll). 
addition ot steamower in Anrn 1844 tip to the ]\h 
, c nth Junf ls4co short a period as fourteen months 
„ fewer than be'eeti Wr/yatid srrcnty ves.s-ds of vari 
u;s sizes Iku e bo captured by her magesties cruisers, 
i'.-r b: ing e-nngag. in (he slave trade! Outofthis nutn. 
i er not . ne has t'ape'd eoiuh mnade.-n, either f'-r bein; 
e<iuip. d for the ive tia.ie, or for having Slaves oi 

-.:;;■<!; in the hit.: a-e uj^vaids of 500 slaves bav. 
been rescued ammaneipated by the courts ..f the col- 
onv.' 



th6 Pi" usyivania h'retman or any one who agrees with 
them in regard to anti-siavery duty, attend this meeting, 
Ihey v^ ouii! be ele nied trio right to give their views H e. 
will, however, give the notice w hich the Freeman does 
not ask . fits — namely, that the meeting will be he'd at 
Tr nton. on the 28th instant; and I moreover earnestly 
urge id I Abolitionist who I ave no fancy to being gag- 
ed, to stay away from it. Anli- Sloven} Standard. 

Very "coo/" indeed to ask an "ant isla very editor to 
publish a notice of an onii-Siavery Meeting. 

We did indeed ask the Pennsylvania Freeman topuh- 
li-h the notice of our meeting, for in the: hone st simplic- 
ity of our hearts we could not conceive of narrow ness of 
soul enough in such an editor to make him even desire 
to do otherwise: we askeel the Freeman and tw o oir.n- 
papers in Philadelphia to give ih.'s notice and we did 
no. li. fi the uted of asUug any one else. Our objtct in 
asking these, v>as to. get the notice of our meeting b. - 
u.re the pteple of JWst Jersey, and we are hoi y t sen* 
sible of an \ impropriety in so doing. 1 he Simuiani htu 
^iven Us a specimen of noble generosity, with a totfkb 
Li.o.ive in publishing our meeting for the sakeot advistv. 
ng li.c people'-io stay aV ay from it." \N'e will feciplo- 
„a;e tb.sunt ur w ti. une exception, we will 7<i'e? ad- 
vise the. people, ll Losia\ awav tiom" any Ot rise ' tand- 
ud's me» tings. The S.andard is the oigan of a So.cie- 
y that has pledp U. "to do all that is lawi'tds%"' il its 
,a) -m i to I ring about 1 the extinction of slavery , r j Wbis 
■> just what the V J. -Society is tie ing, il nevei-hat fan 
put one or two members that we know of, op;.osue; to 
ua'lot fox abolitionism, yet no one was ' tvtv "gyvged^l 
a. .o none have ev.t been "denied the light to giVtt<til«i> 
views'^" -\ *' w "' ! "'" ' r ' d,f ""» ni iMumvmi tng)* 

We cannot appreciate the i'liberality of those who 
ire disposed to quarrel with s!ll thoS'-'w ho h lmui- lorthe 
iverthrow of slavery in any way not marked, .out in the 
: tat.d..rd. We sa; , God speed to every man who. Ut»£$ 
.awfully, for the ovcrJiro* of slavery. ' 



■1 



THE NJ.W JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 



Hearts dead to the c'a7ms" a n.aa, cannot be alive tc 

,e coBtW^W&A&f W\ ?¥'T fl ° UnSh °' 
ne ground where hunr.mil withers. Aeep. 

THE ANNUAL 
MEETING. 



it not be done, that tl.t work may t oi ling< : 7 

Many who do not call themselves abolitionists wi! 
. he.-rfuilv give something for this cause, and we fr.-s- 
that the appointment of this committee will not pre-., n 
my one from sending on his contribution, whose hea 
n-ompts him to do so. 
Again, we say, let not this matter he delayed. 



on on the 28. and 3 
nw t obi West Jerso, 



This Meeting wajgj 
,fjan. It. did the ht 
Wends and rind them such true hearted men 
:uuse of ti e. com. 

The Meeting 



in the 



hv 



nistake tiieiSjate Tempe.atte. SfAely held its meeting 
it the same lime, some of our frimds did not car.e bV 



' MEETING OF THE STATE ANTI SLAVERY 
SOCIETY. , 
• Wednesday January 23, 1846. 
The Society held its Annual M eiing in the City o. 
Trenton in the Temperance Had. The President, 'J 
V. Johnson of Newark, toqk the chair at 2 o'cloc k I 
I , Prayer by Mr. Burr of Philadelphia. The Minute 
tithe last me. ting were rend amended and approved. 

He nry Belden, the Corresponding Secretary read iht 
Annjual Report, which was accepted and re erred to 
Messrs. \Ve«d,BcMen, Parkhurst and Plumly for re- 



vision 



Messrs Grimes, Clark and Plumly were appointed a 



.t the same -lme^some o. oui n.^u, u.» — V»"»«?> » . , 

•ausethcy undei-tco(fMfttW ; p&« ctt*ldjf« prncutod '. eomimfoe forepart on the state and prospers ot me 
to hold a meeting' in and m-sides this it is very unpopu- [slave Case involving the right to hpld slaves under the 
ar in this 'and to hold Uii Silvery Meetteys. How- new restitution. 

Messrs. Grim s, Woodruff, Parkhurst, Underwood 
and Clark, were nppt&T&d a committee to report busi- 
ness resolutions. 

Messrs. Eelden Bla:k ami Parkhurst were appointed 
a committee. U report a list of officers fo> the ensuing 
year. , 

On motion, Resolved, That the Society present each 
member of the Legislature, a copy of 'Alvan Stewart's 
argumen' before the Supreme Court on the slave Case- 
Mr. Underwood from the business committee repor- 
ted the following reso ution, in reference to the employ- 
ment of an agent, which v as accepted and laid on the 
table. 

Resolved, That we advise the Executive Committee 
to employ some competent agon , to go through the 
court the j State and Lecture on the subject of slavery. 

The nominating committee reported the following 
list oimcers for me ensuing year, which was ud pled. 
Thomas V. Johnson, President. 
Edward Weed, John D. Mills, Charles F. Clark, fir 
Alexander Black, vice Presiu. nts. 

Henry B Iden, Corresponding Secretary. 



ver we' Iiad'a very ; ^ J r \ °. ; \ lace to. meet in. 
,-hich was secured ft>r us Lv H. Rush i-indy wAfefl 
indefatigable labours for the cans. 61 ll i i m disUngu- 
,h HWf torn all the other bit!?.. «•. T, m n 

fm-We«m^'W'eVe.oi f»*B» UHAr-ad to thn.-e win. 
lave, hearts, at* '. ser " sue b 
ixtremiu-s ol the stat mim 
casfen The eve.-.ing « ft: be 
.re*eS**m Messrs. h r s 
vith most exccellent i free/ 
for a whi i.e. c on i maty i .. 
sey we think a very ■. -a: e! 
mong them on dfe su. o 
The other m<etm^ ■• 

Vb 
ti 



con U ;t. 

. » tT-»fJO 



tw o 

ti . l it ad- 
I'hii'.'Oiphia 
i p.; n. couk. 
■ c ;' Nt w Jer- 
eiiec'icd a- 

i; 1 ooim ss, 
rejoice 



at.a.s.tar.d^vas lakeu to car<\ up o ano' 
slave cas s. which wer.- in the pinion of so m-ny, un- 
justly'^ 1 ei'ded in our .supreme court a si year This is 
pi' great importance to the cause in our Slate; under the 
jnlerprgiaUofi'o! fhe 'WSw (^{ is' tit ut'ion given by this 
court. SitH-e'i ■,U«Wl*JWs , ii3 c'a. .5 at v ami must contin- 
ue a*itfug»Ai<?d J6«tsb*ilW s^W^ e§ptt "> gJ 1 
black tam wiped a«v ■ \i v; full in all ihe courts we 
will Soto the Leg st^-u < . -.: ! ..' >•«.• / = ! i 
pack to the people^ aim p-'ise.- 4 . cnui 
heaid and jus ice bft u.-fte 

Ail the Anti-Slavery friends were exlr 



Resolved, That in doing this for the open and avow 
d purpose of expending the area, and stn ngthning th.e 
nstitution of shivery, it has outraged the moral sense of 
>i the nation, prostituted its high powers to a base and 
hjectj and made us weak ;<s a nation, by strinph g us 
.f our re utation for Justice and Freedom, from ambi- 
ious ends, and by provoking against us the jealousy 
,nd hatred of the whole civilized world. 

Resolved, That unless the government can be wrest- 
d from the control of the slaveocracy, its dissolution 
s inevitable. 

Adjourned. 
Thursday morning, 9 o'clock. 

Dr. C. F. Clark, vice President in the chair, prayer 
JV Mr. Be'den. The committee f r revising the ar.nu- 
il Report recommended several emendations which 
were agreed to, and ike report was adopted. 

The committee on the slave Case reported by reom- 
nending that the Case be carried up, and that a com. 
be appointed to raise the necessary funds, (about $250.,) 
and take, charge of the matter, whereupon the following 
res.-.lution was unanimously adopted. 

Resolved, That the Case be carried to the Court of 
Errors and Appeals, and that a committee of 25 be ap- 
pointed to raise funds and lake charge of the Case. 

The fol' owing it dividuals were appointed on this 
Committee. 

Thomas V. Johnson of Newark; Jonathan Parkhurst 
of Springfield; John Grimes, of Boonton; ..Isaac Van 
Biarcom and Benjamiu Crane, of Paterson; Jacob L. 
Brotherton, of l5 ver- Dr. C. Allen, of Deckertown; 
Jam s Howe, of Jers y Citj ; Alex. H. Freeman, of 
Orange; T D. Weld, of Belleville; B. Rush Plumly of 
Trenton; Enoch Middleton and Peier EHis, of Cro»s- 
wi.eks; Samuel A ins-n, of Sa-.dhi 1; Charles Stokes, of 
Moorestown; Dr Joseph Parish, of B irlinat^n; Jacob, 
Ford, ofAlientown; George T. Aikins.m. of Mnilica 
Hill; Alexander Black and D. C. Ogdcn, of Swtrtlesfc'di 
rough; Dr. C, Clark and Win. E. Cocpcr, cf WbpdW 
bury; Henry Keep, of Madison; Jo.-eph J. Fitiperaid, 
of West M'ilford- and Samuel Hack, t, of Wood,... v, r,. 

The resolutions reporte d yes • rd. y by the committee 
with that of Mr, Und.-rwo. d were adopted. 

On motion, Reso ved that the executive- CoimmU.'e 
be advised to call he next Annual Meeting in Tremor.. 

Adjourned, sine die. 



will go I 
nafi be 



next aunuaj 
au holiest., c< 

for Juanght. 

' H 1 '-.1*1 



: l ed 
iding the 
(I under 

it.v-eihef 



^|ejK.a/id,(jxj jH. . Freeman, Reeordi n g , Secretary . 
George W. Est-n, Trea-urer. 

Executive Committee. 
Johr/Grimes, George W. Estvn, Hetiry Belden, S. 
A. Gondii, James S. No: ris, George Atkinson, Rich- 



ard V» ilkii.s. 

Dr. Eid.-r ol Fh.il; 

: v.-:.- d 11. * a.U nt ion oi 
joumnv nt in a r 



audience 



called 43PO' 



i.l) 
cu- 



^.THE COM 



xe unui e nour o 
igly agreeable manner. 

Adicurn»d. 



* We 4> all send r. c r r - : 
■timbers of this commit ee 
of th • Slate meeti n g junnil 
one^iCTt-rMbOBt'ji»'to:*'V 



if 



•■i:ai> lo all tt e 

appi al to lacli 
ol..'xt T n L-i- 
uoi get- so much, 
is oidei^to nteet.^e expense of car yii.g up to another 
Court, the Cases' which w. re so unfortunately decid.d 
against the slave las; year. This is a small sum, and 
we trust that every one will v el th<- importance of at- 
t.-> ding to'it without d'-lay, th t the eoivmiiie may taii 
labor underifie^olsaclvrintn'g. s of p eu. iarv .-ntbarrass 
ment in pj-osecuting tins woik. A sub -committee con 
sisting we b dievey-of B. iiu>.i. Pium'y of Tr inon, ant 
Enoch Middleton of Ui-...'-: - i- htis hv n appointed 
to, carry o 1 'the-yotk^eith.-r of whi. h nay tea'ddress- 
co by any v. }.o ha\TB funds ft cenj I . u.e. 
'* ¥Ae pV.soculion*o.f this w- ri, ... re c tfcari y corntct. < 
with some .jtor>onal iiatnhtii-s, -i.-..ha.s ii.g bends 
and it is proposed l!.<:t each mi mter ol ihis committei 
K*6d aT»ie}>»-*iioteiy 4 io ^heroftheiabpve n rnedgen- 
.1 . .1..1U— .... ^ s pledge to do so when SalltC 



o'clock P. M. 
in the chair, prayer by Mr. 



Il mCll t i. U - I . k! i - .„ .... - ;, • - — 

fr. _ Thisis'a-ma!. sum .0 U roll ted.^t ...xh ,,^h ^M&mtoriwtii- 
borhOod, -and Wl5*l»^4ione hv a in- it- a-.i'on, and slfl^l I 



The president in the chair, prayer dv ivir. Under- 
wood. The committee on r solutions reported the fol- 
lowing, which were laid on the table, and Mr. Burr 
a. d Dr. Elder of Philadelphia occupied the evening 
v ilh highly interresting addresses. 

Resolved, That as in individual, so also in national 
proceedings, perfect uprightness, both in purpose and 
action, is the highest expediency 

Resolved, That tl.e strength of a nation consist, not 
so much m its wealth, numbers, and munitions or war., 
as in the purity and uprightness of its government, tin 
v iriue and moral heroism of its citizens, and a go d rep- 
utation. 

Resolved, That the area of Liberty cannot be ex ten 
ded by war, aud ition, or baud; these have always been; 
her implacable enemies. Her allies, are peace, truth 
and justice. 

Res. h ed TBm ail acquisition of territory, not obtain 
.-dly strictly honest aiid honorable means, and for ; 
■.ooo purpose, weaken and corrupt the nation, au; 
.arnishes its glory. 

Resolved, That our General Govenmv-nt, in tie 
acquisition and annexation of Texas, has shown an 
u t.-v disregard to its own professed principles of action 

4l...',l..™„„,l.. , ..^.,0 .7 . i , 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. » 

In the reign - f Henry VII,acccrding fo Hume, 2,000 
criminals w$°rc executed annually; and during the whole 
period that he swayed the sceptre, 72,000 were put to 
death;, \ et Sir TWbn 0- J-U ore averred that property and 
person were never more insecure. In the reign of E- 
iizbeth from 300 to 400 persons ufiered, every year, by 
the hands of the executioner. England, nevertbeltss 
v. -us in a dreadiul s ale of moral disorder. It was ft cu- 
rious, and, in every respect, a striking and extraormr.a- 
lact, stated by the late excellent Sir Thomas Fowell 
Buxton, in the House of Commons, that whilst in the 
leign of th» PlaiUagcntes, 4 ofiences only were made 
eap.i.al— in the times of the Tuders, 27 — ar.d under 
sway of the Stuarts, 36— there were 150 additional of- 
fences rendered capilai. during the reign of the house of 
Brunswick! In the time of George III a one, more 
crimes were denounced as capital than in the reigns ot 
the Plantagenets, the Tudors,and the Stewarts combin- 
ed. 



We have had some cheerirg news from pr Chirk of 
Woodbury, in relation to the s ave case now hi our 
Courts, there is much room for cncouiagement. Let 
every one who feels for the slave and the honor of this 
State be up and doing. 

;ii - : Stevatfs Aigunn At '. • fov* the Supreme court 



hei 
n t! 



. 1.1 doc urn* nt to i licit interest 
)act. Let every friend of 

Liberty procure some to lend, sell nrfgive away iri'W«s; 
\ illage. flu y may he had at the office of the Fi-epma;i 
m Boonlof), T. V. Johnson in Newark and Finch s-t 1 
Weed'l'lS Ni.ssau Street N. Y. 



POET'S CORNER 



CH ARIT Y. \ 

OH charity! thou heavenly grace, 

All tender, soil, and kind, 
A friend to all the human rac?, • 

To all that's good inclined. 

The man of charity extends 

To all his helping hand; 
His kindred, neihbors, foes, ard friends, 

His pity may command. 

The sick, the prisoner, deaf, and blind, 

And all the sons of grief, 
In him a benefactor find; 

He loves to give relief. 

'Tis love that makes religion sweet 
'Tis love that makes us rise, 
- With willing minds and ardent feet, 
T-> yonder happy skies. 

Liberty Minstrel. 

CASSIUS M. CLAY and the N. Y. LEGISLATURE 

While Mr. Clay was in the city he received an invi- 
tation from several prominent members of the Legisla 
'ure at Albany, to deliver an address on Slavery in that 
city, Mr. Clay felt h ; mself obliged to decline the 
invitation, but in doing it, heenunciated some fundimen 
'.a! truths on the great subject, in his own nervous way 
which we present. They are copied from the Tribune 

I have before me now, in addition to your invitation, 
requests from many of the most distinguished men of 
Boston, of Brooklyn, of New Haven, and other p'aces 
in the free States, and from Wilmington and Baltimore 
in the Slave States, for me to address them also, so that 
there seems to be no limit to to these flattering eviden- 
evidences of public confidence aud sympathy, I must 
break away at once. 

This request on the part of sixty-two American citi- 
zens so distinguished, encourages mc to hope that the 
true issua between Liberty and Slavery is beginning to 
be understood and felt, that Slavery isindeed. "an insti- 
tution affecting deeply, for weal or for woe, all portions 
fvf our common country." 

Tf labour be the. basis of the rights of property, Slave- 
ry violates that law. 

If justice, and Virtue, and intelligence are the founda- 
tions of permament Liberty, Slavery saps them! 

{{'constitutional Republicanism be the only guarantv 
of national freedom, slavery has utterly trampled it under 
•foot! If they are not freemen who tamely submit to the 
1 >•• of one right, then are the Ameiican people slaves' 

This is the doctrine of '7*j and the law of common 
sense. 

When Northern citizens are imprisoned and habeas 
corpus denied, and Northern ambassadors ignominiously 
driven a way from seeking redress under the National 
judicature ; 

When Northern citizens are torn from their own 
once free soil and hurried by force into Southern dun- 
geons? 

When Northern citizens are hung in the South with 
out a trial by a Jury of their peers, and without having 
violated any law, or the freedom of speech ; 

When Northern blood and Northern treasure are ex- 
pended for the acquisition of Slave tenitory destined to 
increase the capabilities of oppession ; 

When-Slave Texas has about four representatives to 
one among the Free — thus trampling under foot the 
revolutionary doctrine that taxation and representation 
should be co-ordinate; 

Who shall be so ba*e as to as-k any more in servile 
tones, "what has the North to do with S a very?'' 

The Liberty of the Press in the South is gone to 
day! Will it live in the North to motiow? 

This is nij" longer a question about Africans — 
whether they be beasts or men? — a deb -.te about maud- 



lin philanthrophy! but whether we the eighteen miliivis 
of white men of these States, shall be Free men o, 
slaves ! 

Know, Americans, that the sword and the chain en- 
<>r not the flesh till the spirit — ay, the spirit — of a peo- 
ple is dead! 

Heaven help us to feel, to see, to dare — now — to-dav 
— "Awake, arise, or be forever fallen. 

Pardon the warmth of my language, for I and min- 
ire in chains, and sil -nee is a crime! My constitutiona 
ights are b >me down by violence and per.verted judi 
.'ial dec'sion, and remembering that we were once free, 
we must vindicate them, or die! 
I have the honor to be, 

Your obedient servant, C. M. Claj'." 



Very True. — Mr. Belden in the Annual report gives 
a new definition of the Letters S. S. on Jonathan Walk- 
er's hand, "SOUTHERN SPITE." 

The Slave-holders Prayer. "Lord, bless me and my 
wife and my half cuff." 



Confessions of a pickpocket.— A. eelebra 
ted pickpocket, who was latly sent to Stat 
prison for his misbeeds, being noted for 
liis marvellous adroitness in pocket- lifting, 
was repuested to reveal the secref of his 
success, u-hen die following, among other 
disclosures, were made ; we publish them 
as likley to be useful to those who are will 
ing to take the hint ; 

' Persons in an omnibus who take out 
their pocket book after the stage stops are 
sure to be countrymen. Those who sifop to 
converse on the sidewalks, or in /horough- 
fares ; or who take out pocket books at the 
box or pit offices of theatres or steamboat 
offices. All those who stop to gaze at shop 
windows or count money, or show pocket- 
books in thestreet, or call at the Funk Auc 
lion rooms. All t hese, said he, " are com- 
mon victims. 

"If I find a man eating oysters or fruit or 
carrying an open knife in the street, in nine 
times out of ten he is green, and we victim- 
ise him. Persons who stand up in Thea- 
tres, or on cross-walks, are generally coun- 
try folks, and we make sure of them.' - 

The shrewdness of these observations of 
the pickpocket must be obvious to all city 
people and accounts for the remarkable 
fact that city residents never suffer by the 
operations of these light fingered gentry. 
y. Gazette. 



"iJemocrai" — Poor people are not allowed in South 
Carolina, to become members of the Legislature. One 

f the members of that body recently communicated 
he intelligence to the Speaker, that by a recent misfgr- 
une. he had lost his property, and wii obliged to va- 

ate his seat. 



YOUTH'S CABINET, This very valu- 
able publication appears in a new form, 
pamphlet suitable for binding and preser- 
ving, and is published once a month for$l, 
a year at 135 Nassau Street N. Y. 

The work is elegantly executed and is 
worthy of extensive patronage. 



An Annual State Liberty convention for 
Mass., is to be held in Boston on Wednes- 
day 25 February, We trust there will be a 
great rallying of the friends of universal 
Liberty. 

The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
has made preparations to do ji good work for liberty" 
the comming year. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 
gent and Editor of the Anti Slavery Reporter. ' The 
Reporter is an excellent paper published monthly at 
118 Nassau street N. Y. at $ 0,50 a year for a singb 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies $ 
3,50. and 50 copias for $ 12,30. subcriptions will be 
received at this office. 



? ■ ? 



Slaveholders.— The whole number of 
slave-holders who are voters are said npt 
to exceed 72 000; while t here are in the free 
States nearly a million voting freemen. Free 
Lab. Adroevte. 



THE ANTI SLAVERY' ALMANAC, 

for 1846, is just; published by FINCH & WEED, 118 
Nassau Street New York, and for sale by them, whole- 
sale and retail. They are also for sale at the office ol 
h" Freeman in Boonton. 

Every anti slavery man in the Slate should constitute 
himself an agent for the sale and distribution of this Al 
mauac. Let this be done without delay. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened an 
office for the sale of Anti Slavery Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c. at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 

be well patronized. 

—————— 

MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protestant 

church. It should be read by every body. 
For sale at this office, price 31 cerfts. 

CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 

Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 

ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office ef 

he Freeman, Boonton, N. J. 



LIBERTY MLrYSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel are for 

sa'e at thi* office. 

litis is superior to any thing of the kind we have 
■seen, and shoud be in tlie possession of every one that 
loves iiond music, and loves to make a good use of it. 
Price, 4-1 cents. 

Boonton Washington Temperance Benev- 
olent Society— meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church. D .C. Norris, 
President, Marcus Evarts Secretary. 

Boonton Liberty Association, — meets Che 
first Friday evening of every month. 
lVI. Kvarls. President, C. B Norris, Sec 



0 





B JCNTOJV, MARCH I 1846- 



T H E 



B E E M A N 



Single cop 

10. copies 
AU commi 



Now O:'! a 



. r > . s arc. 



Whoso C ' " • •> ii 's ''ay mcM 

se, the', it is lea- .: i t - i C's» St.- 

ety is a va^: a> o. . . ,r . ■; .. ,.s n m 'n whic! 
•e bohing.ee.t' struggling, a: >■• a-rop. ic ej< m nt:.. stri 
ing for recoo 1 > en < Tt i ri: ' 

emiserall'. - weight o 

ii? wor'ei'i . - ; i i.' -- 

">e poor stru-jgl .o it"'-... .•• • •.>... of Kar i ': 

un and daug! ; rs !al u <•... '.I. r . . u p ru. 

: of destitu i« : ! < J i i i j \ i • e ■-■ k ••• 
he. hs slue:- it >' •;>" ; : . <>; :i w i. 

le k'red Ubo'fi r f r.. h I I ■; 

>r the chatteL of Am t. » . a..., d una l>iu;i. 

at operatives of 1 1 o!< v r •'» 'i i i i • i: 1 1 j - u 
ope is in God and I i.- \ u \ i 1 nu i.i i v ( tt.d our t j, 
rtnuis are parte oi .Lis j, oi tum. The vast vavt o; 
rogrt-ss rolls on, ; ulnn iging o} | o>i em We |p>pc n 
Sod; w I ope in ours-. iV'-s. Tl e v r'd i.- rrtjaiir.g 
wa mtgb'y < i ..i.e.- . V.'< j, km' tt: ' eve of * tre- 
iend<-Ui, bloodless k vo'isiiou v.ejnuK 1 . m> r it. I 
to ordained. Tie fri< fids of pToer st v. ill go stt adil ■ 
irw nrd through o't'cjuy, through s ; ruggles of • every 
anae aud kind, 'La. impede them on h. ir way. I: is 
ne of the most i new racing : ij. c! I < 'I h > , la 
tind every wh •»•.* is av as n •;— m> hi re and tin re, Lu 
ivry where. Hap|jv for u», it* mi i ^ n.en ag« 
facovery. Link a.' -:r in 1 : of i. g.,i. n , ;.;rn i>t Trutl 
i grasp d by m n and , v, n a k p.i. i..m hcgr»s to see 
hat the upp. r link of that chain is fast* m d to the- ihron 
f God. God has gi en gr a' minds our agej to dis 
over Truth, to to* ' t otw n*c s; .• : d 1 i ' as <>ivei 
» de%*oted aou!.- . ..n' di- for this i ru'.i 

'need be — we h d i op d t] a- -li.' I iter nd ;ts:.«.: 
ay had da- nod, a ••'.>•.. id •.. r ■. h - sa'd 

hat" chains and stri.; ,-. : tn| ii. r.t ir.« n: ar.d -he « o. 
jre the wot id's market {'riv e for v i. .'■ m if rewar/ 
vith which -he: gref.8 -t.i>s« wi o come to rnfigfr.c 
ler." V&'.i iv e y."t a Ii leng r- \ • n'gh: <»f dart 
less has not quit- passed — l.ul lc*l Ui> he rar fui tl.a 
»ur patimce b n i another nam" for ndolence—At t eac! 
•k himself in ill Urwvy. "v ! at is for me to do.' 1 
Then he will find an on ,w r, "w runs! gird ourscl«< 
or actual doing. 7 ' \V mus! a;n T.u h any here ! 
wry where: in I <*gi v ay • nnd I V»- v ays. in lanes afn 
lle\8. Ae.d il«r ■ • e n. ..-.In \f Tiu h we 1 a\ 
•artied. Freedom ' '" ; n 

itJfl.7 the ! of hroai 

(waning--wej)io' k t ul .- . n • of:< n ly l.t way i< 
hich we use it. Ti »• « ' «om lal o r. whose soul i 
indev-'oped, cru»l d 1 v ■! < cdm tes-'onci s ly v i id 
le is sarroundf d, v. : :l. star !y a g'tr| s o r M.e giori 
>us Truths '.vl.iel a •• ! - i . rigl l is beritag 
hinks he is frf i i I • ; . «i 1 l alh.tlox 
tnd vote twice a y at . Uat List; cm hing if it '>> 
lot freedom, iti^- a step toward it and the laborer ha 
ome cause for sMf gra'ula ion. v.l en i «- Ii^oks on tl 
'monsti^ machine''' t 1 at has throv n fiiy men out* 
mployment, and sa\<; to <ant v- to. 

There is work for humanity. To create man froi. 
lie fortolass material, wLich we call meti, is the true la- 



s' of lov^". How is this to be don First, he mu^' 

mad j t" feel that he is a man,— that he Las a Goc 
v n right to hhr.self— to his ov. n so;-/, to his ow u LmL 
■d trunk— -to his own exertions. !fhe ; must he so! 

hin i.ng and degrad rg servitude, it is v something t< 
e1 that he has the li^ht to sell hims-if, to choos^ 

an. t- his master. And ti.t n it is sov-.t'.h'.n-: to him th. 
s can say to the Machine thai is depriving him of bn a 

0 . cant vote." ll lf you ruh' rti j in rca/.'/y, you cat. 

• • appecr.rce." Tiuly, this see i s slight comfoi 
it -light com.'orts are better il an no e. And tl.e firs 

• y-; , g,. s given to the mist able, are not so much valu 
..v for themselv s, ,ts f r that to which they lead. 

Let the right of all mm to education and d«-v lop 
i nt he conceded, and we 1 a>e#Bpe, the nali?atioi 
f this right v; ill fol ow sooner, or later. Man mm- 
ase t'. be a chattel, he must cease to he a "At nd,' 
or when th - first step towards fm c'om is taken, 1 y * 
t.lshing slavery, stiil m< n are to dfgrad<-d flat the; 
>re not called men but "A'/.^d.v." Ail this must ceasi 
•na mm.t he eduieait d. Educaiitn c« mj n J < re's ma 
:*Hal and fj.irhua! cu'ture. The \» 1 o'.e man must I 
'ocated Literary nrr n, Tivin'^ and philosophers ar 
. i d tducatrd. Ii is a fact, from which these cat 
> ei escape, tl at "Lalor is a Lr.iverta! duty, r.r.d r. 
soix-r.-a! netssity. RItnta' activity atone, let mrn'a 

1 or b.- ever s vari> d and excessive, dot s no' fulfil tfci 
w, We see in thesi men olitu the large brain, tht 

! rvous' temperament, the soft, shriveled and tisehs 
ar.d Weq&ts factions of humanity, sen out to ttacl 
he w ay heaven wa.d, when, o.\ing to their own wrong 
raining, their u'.teily (tlKtin <t"v<ation, they art 
« itl.out h< a'th or fp i jts. Can such, in their misery , 
mir.is.ter to a mind diseased? Like the rest of the wor'd 
they fold their I and* and say, tl at "Evil is in* vit* hit 
nd reaigna'i n the highest virtue." This doctrine, 
may do for Fa alists and Tiiits: hut it is fatal to Chri»- 
tians. 

Ac rroN is the Law of Existence. The condition qC 
Life and the condition of Happiness no less. 

L. ORIENT, 



From the Signal of Liberty. 

SLAVEIICLE1NG CHRIS I'lA^lTY — TO THE 
LIFE. 

It tony strike seme minds that the f Rowing tetter 
.-■iu-.'. Lt- a Lurlt sqe. Fo> the t&ke of tuch it may b< 

rnpor ant to bay tl a', its genuine ness is Lcycr.d question 
Fbe individual to whom the I ttcr was addressed i; 

: j r*-, is vsell kft v. n, and is himself well acquaint! t 
with the writer. We lave all the 'fines in full: Lu 

up; ose it t etter to give iht j uLlic ocl the initi. Is. 
The letter may herefore he read as a veritable portrai 

ure. of at h ast one of tl.e forms of a slavehpldfng Chris- 

ianity. 

13. Goorg'a Sep . 4th. 1843. 

Dear Sin: 

1 te-k^ u;> my pen !o write t" > ou one- 
riore, though is not 1 thm write hut the Lord tl a 
» riteth through me. Permit me to inform y«>u that sin • 
■ wrote t" you last, I have come out and tmhiactd ti.t 
•ligion of the Lortl Jesus Chrisi and atvi now living it 
e glorious, light, and liberty of the children ot God. 
\'e have had quite an intern sling church meeting hei 

is week in relation to -Deacon It was th< ugl 

y many that be v. on Id be di ftllo- -shipped, hut fina.l 
i« ease - as set faith in such » tru ia arid vivid light 1 
' c most inlu'-p'ial members of the Church, our ras'i 
:nong the r-st. tl a' be was honorably discharged. F* 
' ar yon will think the case v o s>e tl an it r< ally is. 
ill |ust sta*e the facts,(though you are such an al o'i 
ouit, I suppose you will think it I ad enough asil is 
The Deacon had an old slave, that had b< en in th< hal 
of miming away, lut had al»ayp been caught, unt 
iaally i.Lout two weeks ago, he made another attempt 



jVO. i0 . 



Ko sooner was the old thing missing, than cousin 

I . — loi r wed neigbor P s hounds and started 

i search of him. He had not proceeded far in the 
->'.''?, bi fore he fou:.d W.e old man perched upon the 
Hib of. a hwge tree. He ordered him several times to 
urn - down but tht old man who v. as as stubborn as an 
:ss t sti 1 n ai* a n< d I -s j ositxn. Tl ■■e'Deact n then 
coming £.umt v. 1 a' i ?.c itt d. fiu tl his gun at him. 
'he hall passed hiough his ar.l.l ■, and mar.gie d it in- 
uch a manner h t in three days the iishnaortifted and 
e diid. 

But as I have before s'&ttd, our good Easter ("may 
h< L rd LI ss l is sou ) held fov.li for the ju t.fica-icn. 
f the Deac n in such a vivid ant; heaiyen approving 
vie tl al he v.as dlselaigfd t] en d.t gttvet tJat^a 
ad a r'ght to do wl at he pi -ascd v. i-1, hi., ov.n prop.-r- 
y, ajut'gment t! at wonld have 1«<m] parsed by rr.y 
ghtecus nen. Yt ur t' i.c It J. I t.rh d Ids ycurgeit 

liiid last week Your cousin V>' thought r- a e 

f s udying at CLt riin lut it fs suth tn al oiition hols,. 
! do not tl ink l is f ther v,iii let him go. I have partly 

: a:gaint d !or tl t v.! £G s ; v« s, i t It ogir.g <o Mr. J 

If I get ti.t m as tht ap as I e>] ett to, I si all muke u 
a d cme profit « n tl.tm, for I understand that lb Cr- 
i ans n.aiket is quite go c new. 1- expect o &; r.c ti:fro 
do«n as scon ?$ my drivt r rcovers: for in fioirgi'rig one 
of Toy o'd s av s the other day, he received a very se- 
vere wound fit m h'm, Is' 1 a- ing struck him with 1 h 
I oe, v hereupon the drivei ins tan- iy drew his t is 'c4 
forn his pocket, and tl ot i im d«-ed on the f.pot, a fa'.-:: 
which he justly m> rjtfd. Fit m his extreme &ge. fl-icg 
ncaily 80 years old.) I consider his death fc ga?« ?-r<i 
not a loss to me, 

In your last you sp.cke cf visit ; rg us n< xt v< r.r. It* 
you come I \ ray you have your al oliiir-nisn^cl iid. fc 
show yourself r. n an. Il it i. ov tin e (ft go to p.'i'-. p 
tOeetiteg aLd 1 must clcs- . v ik ¥ c'iit me in itva 

to you. 

Yours. 

J. W. F 



Frcm the CtcrUr C;.k. 
REGRO PEWS. 

We reccgnize no Church as a Church cf Chrst, ia 
he fu 1 anc It au i;ul t'j.i f t u 1 lat u-ira, which 
abuts ;i portion of iU numbers in:i, «emc ou!-of-the-vsy 
corner, hecaus. of tl.e col r bearskin' VY« ctr.r.et s.- 
wrong the founder of our K< hgion. — 1 h spirt: and let- 
ter « f -he go-«pel are like condt rr.n d iy such t>cicu£ 
istincticn. I s . o to'ortdman who rrope-riy re;ptctE 
himsehf,'can sul mit to this pub ic proscrfpiien t it e.e- 
cennt of the complexion '^»-hicb his maker gave him, 
without ad ep si nse injury, if bol of indignation. We 
have know, n instances, v. here the rth'g'cub principle 
was not a control I tag « h n - nt in 1 e cl Riacte'¥,in v. hich 
his invicluous dislinc ion has driven colored jectle 
cm the Cl urch— and the enh v e ud- r is tl at it does 
iot always 1 ave such nn ef. ct. We once beard the 
lev. T. S. Wright <fN.Y rk. r« n«:k. tli.t cck'fta- 
nd in the Churches. 1 ad driven many of the people into 
nfidt lily. Tl is heyt nd all c n'.ioversy is i r.dsncy. 

A religion tl at juetifi* i sr< 1 d : 1 1 1 t rr ir. tl.< ltcee 
•t" God, v ill n- 1 If ; kciy ft r n < nd i-t if toll cu- vl o 
offer Iy tht m. WtsicnY le terry ii it did— for it is 
ot the r*ligi n of < 1 ri-t. It n ay t> n n 1.1c it in feme 
aturrj — lui tie gitr.d » !• m< nt oi lc*e \ ni t : rg. Lcve 
oes not mj est cdi. us distifcti' r.r uj e n i's tl jec(. 

Christie ti love, esp< c'aily . do' s rot inst il the Most 
hgh 1 y c nit r, [ i < 1 1 tin r ■ i ri 1 it < 1 i'd;er. Let 
o msn I f deee i\t d : G< d i: til n f t hi d. Hi v 1 o dts- 
: s' s m< n. because of the c ici Cod fs\e tltm, 1< ves 
ot the UnivrrssI Fail.- r. Ii maj be in the Chuich, 
is praye m= j It it t s. ; i f i 1 1 - i : : : ":ti trn- 
nding tor the faith ti.t t ol'uin til - i ii tr," u sy 
tf e txct&shc — Lut, in Lis ci LUii.ut oi CLi.li'b little 




pacs he r< jecls Ci r'tt. f?P ifiirp fce'vtiy~ rfj *0i *, I ; 
j ? c is jj.lt a Cl.iU :,Jy«.— For to be a Christian, is U.hav 
the -spirit of Christ. C'pi: crx cit.cen. i.iCl.firt; 
sending a o riion of his auditors to a r mote p»rt of th 
temple — excluding tl«oi from all j.esail.k pi intact wi.i 
ft* rest— because of • n.v physical peculiarity whici 
might mark .the m ? Ev- n If.e vtiu pf| -1 a^r i» ;' f 1 
:and * ou d rejoct such an Idea as deroga to Ch s i|i 
Yet whole Church. -giv ihcir sane. Ion I 0 he con rnti 
ance of the "Negro V w," *&nJ sdil cla.m that the; 
have th spirit of Curia?,. and are his! $u they lie 
greatly misapprehend his spirh, or ihei. own.'— ^ Wo 
ask them to consider the in -it r. If th y are right 1 
this treatment ofih i color d bre hre-n -if their ccadue 
towards th m is s n;.ior. d by Cbriii .i-.i.y— the" shout 
we be glad to ko.»w in what ivs/.cl A religion of Chu.. 
is better than th /c of Mahomet » 



nd numbers of Christians anil Pagans, at the commence 
«-nt of il e reign .-f "Diocletian. After suggesting som« 
,timat< s, he proc eds : 

"It is ernmeous to estimate their strength and influen 
.•by Irmi.iral calculation.- All pliieal chang s ar- 
m ought by i compact Organised disiplinod minority 
'He mass of mankind follow any vigorous 1114 ulse frcn 

d.'term'n-d f w." 

3u?h is the r sult of the obs -rva ion< fone who ha: 
udi- d history profo nd y. Let it not b- lost on the 
.iberty party.— Slaveholders a pitiful minority as 1 
lumbers!; 1 ave c< ntie 1 <d tl e v 1 o e octic of our gov 
rnment for fifty yrora, because they vcic a c'mpac' 
traahised. determined minority. Let abolitionists b 
uch a minority, and th'fy ran r. nllol, ^within a fe\ 
ears, the action ol the G n"ral Governm' nt." 



Ftcmthe Bangor Gazette. 

Slave Ti;.\or.. Interesting accounts of the Slav. 
Trade have he :i r ; ctive-d in this c'ounMy fttm Siem 
Lrooe. The c'at. s aie up to 3Uh of August last. 

Sixty vessels engaged in this trade %s cr; captured be- 
between the 1st of April,-!-: and he 1? 1 April, 1845 
fjome of them \vero eommanckd b> mos c ar-ng vilyam 
aud several of iht-n C*»gl» v.i.h dcspera.e valor ere 
they surtnd- red. 

One of these vessels, the Airicsno, v as captured 
soon after she left 1 er j on.— Her hold contained fa* 
hundred end tu Afj-t.sec iU-va! 1'hese v.,e tiovcd to 
pellv r there wit! < u Itgl v iihou- air- wit! out w» 
t er_ Mriibm beds. 1 he first nigl I aft* 1 1 < r capture, 
twenty-eight dh-d; thir.y move perished 1 core he ves 
.sel arrived at Free Tow ;., the sum*" number the day 
after her arrive! at the port ! Wh.-n he po »r wr -tcl.es 
left were land, d, tl .y !< upl en tl. u tftd f4 for the ca 
f^es.haul?d on the^-ach, pushing and fightieg with 
each other, while attempting to drink the stage mt »a 
,cr contained in tin m. The in! abiian s of Free Town 
succeeded in reducing them to orde;« and, very soon re- 
lieved '.hum by supplying tlvm with food, dr.uk i-nd 

shelter. • 

The bififtors of t is traffic no ionugueccn te'L ^ 
may conceive then. ; but language fat's % lay bare iff 
horrid imqui.y. Of all record, d 1 un.an gu 1 , : he guilt of 
this traffic is deepest. If we ejiier a S ave vessel an:! 
l,cokal the seen* s thert — ' I < Icatttoon hole— heRv 
often eh-dntd to th.- dead- n oti ens tramj-hi g fron 
\ cry va. t upon the weakness of th>ir children, am' 
fathers dashing out the brains of their wi'es — the ah 
putrid with death vapor, and horror surrounehng ah-- 
or if turning fr .m the^'a sigata we look at the cruel and 
and sordid avarice . f civilized man, in pursuing this fraf 
f.c in l.umari tiocd witl a ferocity v.hich harrows «] 
'.he soul, and a il ndish spi it that mocks at. every hu 
ir.anenonni y— we cannot but won Jer that the civiliz e 
uatipnsof the earth do not co> bine to crush il. K< 
wave should be darkened by th- flag of the pirate Slav 
dealer and aea p Huted with his bloodstained villain . 
the ensign of no na io i should piotcct him one insta 
from the doom of death. It is the c/nn ■ of ear.h an. 
the power of m m should b<; put forth 10 the u.termos 
uith industrious and indignant zeal, to track out th 
m-mster villains tha: thu-; s.ain the act a With blooe 
mid sweep them foiever from its free a d v. ide circum 
ferefteo — Ex. Pace, . 



THE POWER OF A MINORITY. 

The able Editor of the Christian Freeman thus an- 
swers to the Liberty party that it is a se.i II minority 
"We are s metafiles ashed, w i n the < on emp uous a 
of those who once despised the fi.eLle cp'rainencemcn 
wall of. Jerusalem, and insultingly inquired; f'what A 
these feeble Jew.-" — of what use is your Liberty Party 
Wh-itc.n you do with 60,000 vptes aga'nst 2,500,OCc 

It s eir.s to us that Mitman, one of the mns' profouni 
and philosophical histor'ins 0? the day, has statdd a prin 
cip'e which will answer he above inpjiry respeclir 
the Liberty party. He u discussing the relative bteengtl 



D I E 



From Clafs True American. 
IT IS COMING.' 

Freedom, universal Freedom, is coming: and th. 
gates of hell cannot prevail agatost it. 

In the border slave States, discussion isgoirgon. in 
,.imc form or another, f 1 educaiion — lor the white 
basis— for a larger m cl.a ical interest— for labour — foi 
pecuniary advance men:— or f< 1 < mai cipatio'n directly i 
nd in all these foims, (excluding lh< last.) wl ethei a- 
owtd or not, the seed's ol d. a h are being sown for hu- 
man slavery, if the be sustained. 

The men who participate in this action, may qualify, 
and gvaid their language, as they phate; lie y nay d. - 
ncut.ee Et.d scorn anti-slavery men ; but the sling is 
there, and they are leaping to iveit.feet. G."l add 
to their -tr i gth ! We \v. uld put into their hearts tl e 
ire of the spirit, and 1 cur cut frcm their mouths its 
higneet end holiest truths! , 

The pre=.s is no sign oi;the times. On t)ie subject ol 
-laveiy it is kckid in the South. a< d l' e.slav.-. cracv 
carry thg key. In the Nor. b. with limited exceptions, it 
is ye' trammel ed by a sub -erv.n and cold pohcy, o. by 
covardly fears. It eel Of s id \ 1 'lull lg pulsa.iou 
f the public heart, beating loud and s r.-ng f»r hun?an 
liberty. Buti the Soa-.h . leading pa tical jbir6« 
;peaks out ojiafjiii'slavery. ve h ive a aign worth no- 
. icing — not because its editor is hoeest ad bold— but 
chicfily because it is conitfisiv ofthe wish; as well as 
determi alion, oi the people to heave oft this gna an. 
clinging curse. It would n- t be d..i:e were it "1 cr 
.use. It would not be, but at the risk of pecuniary ru- 
11, . nd personal ditfu'.cr, a. ^ th.Lc tic i.«t (he t 'm. ; 
when men court the loss of • ne or of the other. 



At Koonlon on Thur-day Che 20 last, aft. r a 

lingering illness, Francis Stkci'd, wife of Samuel C. 
Tibbals, and daughter of George Whipple, aged 28 
\ r ears. 

On the 1 3 f h. it It. athjis residence, Rancocus, N. J. 
oseph Lundy, father of tha 'aire nted pioneer, in the 
ause of the s'ave. B -nJamin Lundy, in the 85th year 
f his age. jje v, as a wor by and ste. med membej. 
,f the Society of Friends Feun. Ficcn.un. 

Tiie Slave Kule. 

In the \ :tvy depart oteivl at Washington, 
there are fro .. the s ate tales 31, from the 
free States 12-s44. Mr. Secretary Upshur 
tpjminitetl 32 niulshipnien, lO from Vijgin- 
hit, 17 IVoid M:ti vl;».U(l. I'thtuare and Dis- 
i riot, of Ctil tiul'ia ar.d 0 irt»m the free 
-tales — s\/w7>. riilniL. 



Bi.eachp.g \ l'< si n paper says: 

' It is noticeable in thi.s market, tlult 

Shernian's Lozenges are not so hlack as 

(hey were." 

Upon which the New Orleans Picayune 

remarks: 

"And in litis maiket, that negro babies 

tire neit so block as the v used to tie." 



''slavery as it is. 



99 



Men Hunted by Qqgst—A late number of 
iho Sumte r Co. V\ hig, published at Living 
iton Alabama, e ontains the fallowing atro- 
:io :s advertisement-proving what is noto- 
iously •fin'- that it is n regular business at 
be soulh,.to train dogs to catc'.i negroes, 
md to let thtMii out by the day or job, to 
mut poor runaways in the swamps and 
©rests! The advertisement is copied pre- 
isely as it appears in lite whig. Load il 
aen and wome n of the i\orlli! 

Negro Bogs. 

THK undersigned having bouaht the en 
ire pack of Ve^ro d isfs, («f live Hays 
t Allen siuck ) lie now proposes. 1. > calcl 
imaway ^ eg roe.-. His charges h il! I" 
t'hree pollars per day for hunlifui, a.»d ^ii- 
feen DpHars for catching :> runawy. He re 
idev3 \-l miles \orih of Livingston' neat 
■he lower .Jones' IJIniT roa'ti. 
Vov 6, 1845. — (im. 

WILLIAM GAMUUEL. 



Treason, murder rape and arson, are 
crimes punislBtble with death in Massachu- 
set.s, and the (iovenw r commends such 
sfK'vi.Asion oftlte ciimimtl code as will cou- 
fi' e that penally m murd.-r in the first de- 
aiosyv He mentions tl e case oferunin^ 
ais who haw c<m,miiied some of the other 
1 rimes na ted ami 'he*.! p.-.;petrated -murde*? 
in ..re:* 1 to dtsiri y » « inter s r- West. tit. 

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. 

The Prisoners Friend reprrs. etc those who are la- 
bouring for the Abolition o this ancient practice, have 
avourablo prospect* before them. 

In Congress, John Qui ncy Adams has given notice 
hat he will introduce a hill f r the Abolition of the 
Death P. nalty. 

A bill to abolish public executions in capital cases 
has aUeady been brought in Ly J. R. Ingersoll, pur- 
suant to notic.", read twice and committed. 

A motion is mqw b fore 1 he Legislature of Tennes- 
see to ahlish the death pena'ty. A similar motion is 
,iow bef re tha Ohio Le^ : s a ure, »ni also b.fore the 
Legislatures of AJabinu, Indian , • 11 d Rhode Island. 

In Indiana a bill has passed he Kou>e of Reprecen- 
alives by a vote of 63 to 20, that gives to the jury, in 
.ascs of capital crimes, a dWreti nary power of finding 
he prisoner be pieced at solitary confinement in the 
State Prison for life, or that he be hung. 

Ti.is is e veidently but ^n i direct mode of abolishing 
langing. — Sig. Libe-Uj. # 

The town council of Edinburgh, Scotland, has carried 
1 motion for the abolition of all capital punishment, by 
1 majority of 12 to 5. 



To r m • k f't i : s . — nmhing^is a filthy habit, 
itykf the b vt of it, so aj o are chewing and 

*ir>tiffiiio <»ei'inau i>' v " loerists assert that 

oft weni y drn I lis of m. h. 1 «iv. ecu the ages. 
»f eighteen and 1 wenty -fiu-, ten are the re^ 

Milt of w aste of the constitution by smok- 

iuiir-Lib. Standard. 



Krafts 3<?8 ' 
tie com-"' 



^ THE NEW JERiLY ; I AVE « ASE«£jJ 

The particular a i ami of Am* ■ in'.errested iu the <n 
i-e abolition of sla< ■ ry in IS « w Je sry (and v\ l.al Jer 
eyman can !••• ■ i.evv. -se -bun in < rre»:ed.) is earnestly 
{kdihefav U ■ • d-r : avo a r.«dy teen torn 
Ihcedihb «. .. vi jch *te lost ° 

iveinour' ■ tie- Cou i 

f Errors; an. i . *3 costs. 

)ur friend, Ii t - • • . i as dir. ad., 

tdvauced fit - . ' -~ um, ' d to hin! 

mmedialc y, a- !. u hi v. a .i i.-oin-y. Will no 
|ote gVntlem -n who con chute 'he committee for co'- 
fcting funds, each for himV f, go iir.ua -diaii 1 So work, 
tad collect wha moivy h vsm m-d .-( r.d it cn to Mr. 
Ramlv wilho-t d<- w* W...i !.- • t>-iv.-* m -re than 



be has already nd a c d 



of such costs as v. i;i v c.;, in. ... . ■ 

llknotgrea ly d sirable, tha; our ita e bs redefined 
from the stigma of If ing in ;"■<_•• a i i a i\ is, a Slave 
State? It will bn a « o.-i'-a-. i u . .:»• i ''espot sm 
if we succeed and if w fail w« <■■■ i ' f 1 thai w • hav« 
gone our duty. Can anv on- n •'•« urging in this mat 
t!r? Let it no', b- u d»rs'o<»<' 'in' - tin nrm 



TH NEW JERSEY 

FREF>M/ t N. 



jjaymen 



v a k 



■ a] uj«> e i - 

:! : his fi J ld OI 

■ i y. A rghte- us 

. it hon r of those 
porr. will confer 



Iters of that r< irn.it', e oi I; , 
ry friend of lib v.y in i. • ^ 
labor tor tht roim-u > » 

jecisi n of this c s « : 1 r 
who labor to at <. ■ n j. i.- 1 i 
happiness on l < u amis tf 1 1.: ia. c , ;-. d he |> the caus 
pfjiberty ev- r} w h r 

There are l.un he of in n in l.c State, ' ho d not 
ta'l tberr.H ad I't'onists, il a', will give -om ■ thi g 
for this cavte if th. y ar- a.-k d. S! al! they u t be 
:al'ed on? W< h p- the -importance f his ma t- r may 
>e /eft, and that actio:!, en rgelic and fai'hlul ACTION 
nay show som thing mere than r aefcelinr. 



THE BALI OT BOX. 

I It is matter of gr-at rejoicing 1 a th re is a growi g 
teling among m a ev ry wh- re in favor of carrying 
teir moral principles '0 tl e I allot I ox. 'I he absurdi- 
ty of separating a man's politic I and moral duties, be- 
fns to bssi'.-n and f It. and u.- fust that honest men 
fe not much long r to he humbugged » Uh the w icked 
lonjense that (o rupt and dssiming m n are, by all the 
arts they are masters of, endeavoring to thrust down the 
throats of the p opie, to show the necessity <if establish- 
ing such a s para. ion. 

fii : \ v;» c iv.' % - n ■■ •' ) i ' i : 'i ! n • V >. ; fr >-n the -hack 
9| which hav n > jx'tm'l ••<! them to «ee the glaring 
nconsistenc tof beii--ving s'av -1 o+ding to be a mam- 
iiftth crime, and then in the exercise of a God-giv n 
ighl at the ball, t Lox. give lh< ir votes for slave hold, i: 
4d pro-sla' ery-m n, to rn i'c • a.i 1 x • ute our laws- 
'Temperance m *n are fast shaking oS these shack' cs. 
Chey see thai the great obstacle in the way of progres 
■ this groat cause of b?nv->l -n'-a, is tlT^ sanction am 
At clion gi-ven to the rumseller 1 y the lcu\ The, 
( i that these breeders of moral pestilence; tbes* 
i mufactori -s of m'serv and .pt.veny, 
> llutioa and c-i'ti ■; th -s» mak -rs "f w idows & orphans 
i these ver.d ,-r.s of d a h, dam ta.ion and wide «pr a 
] in, must be stripped of the Iter which the LA Y\ 
;vesthcm, before we have any right to « xpect th 
he blessings .of Temperaace to extend to even a sma' 
lortion of those who most heed them. Temperanc 
jiea are fast opening their oyes to the great iuconsis- 



•»ncy of crying out agaiiust the rom * Her and the lav 
hic't sanction his u ho'y lus'ness and ft%n toting ' c 
tarfi d cidedly oppos- d to the reprrd < f all suci; lavs. 
They have b> gun to f ef, that their dut^P to vote ft; 
none but thosR who will pledge to.do the Temperanc 
work. Our mcst ard< nt 1 errs < f cur Country's ar 
h- World's n d. mpiicn are U ilt i j cn the far', th 
aim] t, s Ifioh and design'ng politicians, are fast losin; 
bi ir influtnc. orc-r I curst I < a; s ri t in h ne dcry 1; 
feeling tl at ho < st, censts < n'. acth n at the hallot-b S 
i- ore of the tl it gs to which \.e are to leek, (cr thi. 
world's redemption. 

We were very forcibly rrprc?£id with the rezltty of. 
hese truths, and received muc cncor.rEgf menl in th< 
con'.emplati(U> of them, b\ spending a si ort t'me atth. 
.it the A: nual Meeting of the N. J. IVtfrnerancc Soci 
ty, recently h Id at Trent' n. The following resolutior. 
v. as offered forcensid ration. 

Resolved, That we exhort all men, who are favora 
b'( to the cause of T« mpoiance, to act ?cn&istcntly a 
he ballot box, and not give their votes forany caudic 
ate who is knotvn to be opposed to granting the meas 
ures for vhkh we petition. m 

This resolution produced not a little sensitiveness a 
mong a very few individuals rret«nt, vil ose lo-?e fpi 
T mperance was somev. ha* weaker peihaps, than then 
ove for Clay or Polk, :<nd to annihilate the spirit of the 
resolution as a binding duty to be put in practice by 
Temperance men, seme one propes' d that all after the 
words "ba lot box," be strickken out, which w as agreed 
o, and the first part of the res luiiou w as adopted w ith- 
out discussion. But vvh- n the part after ' ballot box" 
came up for c< nsideration, then came the "<ug of war.' 
Such was the spirit and the spe- chrs in favor of etop- 
ing the whoV, that after a short sruggle, it v>as adop- 
ted t,r.aiih> o:shj, and the resolution has gone forth to 
the uorld in he foii^a above given, as the voice of the 
N. J. Temperance Society. 

We cannot vote for truth, without vdSi-g for those 
men wko wilJ advocate the truth") If v « \o.e for any 
other 'ban scth m n. we give our tcsilm ny on the 
ir.cst in p< riant cay in the y< cr in fav r of i nor. Le 
consistency r igu among the lovers of truth a-.d all will 
be s ight yet. 

— tro — 

LA FAYETTE AND SLAVP;RY. 

The following is the conclusion of a letter written b} 
the veneiable Thomas Ciaik^on to a frit nd in this coun - 
try, j 
"I will finish my ldt<r w ith a spying rf cne of the 
dear» st friends I ever had, namely, Gen> ra' La Fayette. 

1 was with him oft n, and corresponded with him af- 
er his ccming out of his dungeon at Olmutz. But the 
first time I knew him was win a I was in Paris, after 
the French Re volution, on the subject • f the slave trade, 
8j 1 assis*< d him materially. He w as decidedly as uncom- 
promising an eiv my to the slave trade, and slavery, a» 
•iny man I ever knew. He freed all his slaves i > French 
Cayenn- , who had come to him by inheritance in 1786. 
ind shewed me i ll his rub s and n gulaticns for his es- 
tate when they were emancipated.. 

"I was with him four difleient times in Paris. H. 
was a real gei tleman and of soft and gen ie manneis. 
I have seen him put out of temper, but m ver at any 
ime except v l.i n slavery was'lhe subject. He has sai< 
Veque tl y, 'I BeVsr would ha» e drawn my sword in thi 
ausc of America, if I could l av- conceived that there 
>y I u cs fouedfrg a I; Bd if slavt i \ .' " 



The Sfrivfit GrflHvd". — Tn a recent conversation 
i'.h a fri'-nd wi o had B-ecH much of slavery in his trad- 
ig voyae^s on the Mississippi, 1 e said tl at on cne oc- 
asion. wl en I e wa« s'opp-'ng a' ^plantation landing a, 
S- ight little slave bov of 12 or f4 years of age came cn 
oard his boat, and b-srg"d for something to rat. Hr 
ave l ; m rome b'fad and butter, which was 
eceived with than^fufh<S9$, and the poor child said 
o him i'» his own uneduca'fd dialect, 'When I dies 
nd goes to God, P I tell him that \ cu gave me this.'-- 
inti- Slavery Ba je. # 

Will th* Ke» Yo-k Tib r.c have the g odness to in- 
brm its read- rs. I at n ) < recent admisM«in of the Pl- 
ate S:a.-> of 1 : xas into the Uni n, r.ol a sir.ijle Whig 
:o'4 was riven arc : tst ilfion the State of hertvchy ! 
Of the »ri? ? Wl ig m-mb rs ■ f Congress fton. that "ga'- 
lant Slate ^ five vgtf.d is favokof axkexation, and 
■our shot thepit! as the "gallant Harry" himse'f did at 
the time of the Ltxingfon mcb, last Aug'-'. 

Those ar- thee! a- s '! at w re to. h-.ve kept Tcx?s 
outofihe Union -are ih y? I'itv the Abo!ilior.!£ts 
couldn't 1 ay< vote d \\ i h j ucl. a sett^ moial beauties in 
1S44!— Jls.k. Freeman. 



What y ext! ! ! A '.notion was xmM iij 
the l.eei^hHitre of Maryland recently, to 
sellMhe free negroid and apply (he p.cceecs 
to the payment of ihe State debt ! 

1- H — \ i 

IIakd Times ro« T«*PEas. In rr.es* of the 
towns of t oi'.nt ciiut..' topers are %vI*tTT!y de- 
prived of I he tiiea is of :;H fit ,% drunk, 'ihe 
law utterly forbids t he > Ai- of vt irr:-. » r ■ pMt 
■uous liquors, in either lame or %aial,i Q'-i 
ties. In must t.f t-he towns tfxy J'efure '«i 
°rant lit enses. It'i New Ftaven and N LotJ- 4 
don n ne hu; apotlseciiries are iict im d ; as si 
trey arc ivqutn. d to koep a lecerd t i, rll 
ttiey seil. 

-4 onnetir.ut lias been caiicd 'Ute Land of 
I lue Laws;' and we presume that the in- 
habitants iiifiuihrv p;i' t'i- mpk ligid ruics 
with rigtird to Temperance rather tl*an to 
see anv among t em Iv^tHg feariully Lk;t- 
as arrayed in the urm&s %f Kins Akho&oV 



Freedom of the Press. --The Legislature of Ke: 
ucky has now before, it, propositions, the o&ject < 
vhich is to render the circula ion of Cos-sius M.^ Cla\ 
aper p .vishable v:ith fnc end imprisonnent ! The ci 
ingui.'hed friends of IT nry Clay ar ■ aciively engag 
I procuring this ettactment against the fretdem ot th 
>ress. — Harr.p. Herald. 

"War is a game, 
That were their subjects wite, 
Kings would not play at." 



The Penn. Freeman gives the Pfofepecttis of i> new pa- 
per published by H.mry Lo'iigstreth 347 Market t.?!cct, 
Philadelphia, once ;t morCh at one dollar ret ci ; vm. 
It is maiely io advocate the use of free lalor prtduc's, 
but goes for all ki sdred reforms. We cxtictt the fol- 
lowing. 

"Directing our op rtiohs mrii.iv agafiist i-!cvf-:y, we 
shall not be precLd.d fn.ni (.-cca-- : ( rr:l y rc'vcitir-o to 
parallel re forms — tins to :l ct< v>l\il t*\ k »hf sveic- 
mce ot war and the ahropati n oi 'I e e'e o l.-pri.nly. 
Lil -, Liberty, ;md the pur.m't of h.t\)\ i; e.-s ere irxlii n- 
ible ripl is, and scarcely separab'o." 

Abraham L. Peimock, Spvnu 1 Rhbads; and Gecrge 
\V. Taylor are the Editors. 

"L1EEBTY SENTINEL," is the tub- of a new 
Liberty paj er jnst star ed at P ; t sftcld, Ma:S., Ward 
liulhird Editor. It is - n; j of the tight, sort, ably con- 
lucted, and will a-eomplibh much good. 



The Stars and Stsiffs. — Seventy ncgroeswrrc ar. 
"stedjn CI ntl'-s'r v. n S. C, in the act of worshipping 
Jodaft- rG 1-1 P. M. o the srd I a'h day, ar.d were 
!> alt with as the law din cis," thaii it fulclly f<('_(d. 

a W<>e frr those vlo Irrmple <.v\ra mind — 
A deathless thing !"--- 

Do not forget the N'.v Jeuey fkvt ! 
Qy-. A sweeping cxp^ure of the Gail; r.d Forgery 
.8 received ar.d w ill s>i ixu in cv- uc x'- 



qui— j-f aW l u a waJt HI 



i -HfYln.Mn 



oet'S' Corner. 



OUR DUTY. 

EY BENJAMIN F. JONES. 

Why sl:ould v e rest ing'oricusly 
. Wh n earth is fil ed wit strife, 
And Error shou s her bank' cry 
Up a the field of LifV 

The labour we were s< tit o do, 

Is steadfastly io s ak 
A knowledge of he R'ght and Tru 



With spirit strong, y« 



mctk. 



To tread, unmuirrn nr.g. the way 
The Sinless Cm La h ..rod, 

And thus draw n arer ev'rj day 
In likjeness unto G d.' 

The sha 't>wy Past has f;cm us flow n,* 
. Trie Futurk cometh 1 te, 
Thr- Present ■ nly is our o\v--, 
Nor wil' the Present wait. 



THIKK OF GUP. COUNTRY'S GLORY 



M. CHANDLER 



5farjt."K of our coun ry's glory, 
All dicitn'd- w ith Afric's tfars — 

II r broad flag sisi 'd and gor 
With the boarded guilt tif y< ars '. 

Think of the fi antic uol.fr, 
. Lamenting for her c ild, 
Till faiKiig lash s'srhothi r 
Her cries of anguish w ild ! 

Think of the prsyeiS asct nding, 

Yet shvitk'd, al&j ! in vain', 
When h< art fr'otn Lt an is Ti tidii g 

Nr*er ►o b joiu'd again. 

ibhall we b<hoid, U' heiding, 

Life's holies' fee irigs eiesfc'a ? — 

Whi D woman's heart is bl ( ding, 
fil ail w man's voice be 1 utl.V. ? 

,_Jr^> The American and Foreign An^ Slav-try Socici. 
r>av rr.ade preparation's to do e ^od w k lor hb-. i 
ffat eorniaiug yeifr 

The Rev. A. A. i-beips ot Boston i»* ngug. d as a 
£. >ht and Editor of jthe An. ; Slav -ry Repor.er. TI 
V porter is an exdejhft paper published monthly ; 
J \H Nassau s'reet N« Y. at > 0,59 a year tor a sing' 
» ipy. 5 cop!e» to one address for $ 10 copies 
; ,J0. and 50coplas fur > >J. subcriptions will L 
eceived at this oiiiee. 



f 



Temperance Record. 

THE C'ONSlirTE.NT NEGRO. 

The le. vcn is still at v. oik atnmu all classes cf j.< < 
le. In proof of this, permi me to record an oecui 
nee that took place not lui g since. A gentle ma, 
oopcr called upon his negro, who owns a fine iaim i: 
.lis neighborhood, and wished U> purchase some sa\ 
inber. Our "colored" friend inqulrt d for what pui 
ose he wanted it. He lec ived for antw r. "1 ha* 
i contract for so manv whisk y barrels." 

" Weil, Sir," was the prompt reply, u I have the tin 
er to sell and went the ;no ,ey,bul no man can purchas 
single stave or hoop pole, or a par tic e of grain i f iri 
or that purpose." 

Of course Mr. Cooper w as n -t a litt'e "up in th 
track" to meet such ster r pr«of— gol mad, ;.nd, c< n 
• mj tuously made up ir.ou hs at him, ai d < ailtd him t 
nigger." (£m rt.) 
u Tl.at is vi ry tn e," mildly rr pli. d "daikit ." It i 
■ny misfortune to be a n»gro; Vcan't ht-IprAat, but I car. 
h- Ip seizing my timber to make whiskey barrels, ant' 
I »i car; to dot'. 

Aint tint too goidto le bit? Tass it louud fr n 
pole t«i pole. "Do you hear that boys ?" Mr. Editor, 1 
have had no temptation to exaggerate; but h vc simph 
recorded the fac sa- given me from an un justionable 
•ource. 1 knew the co or^d man well. The Ethiopian 
shall rise up in the day of judgement : gainst st me ' > I 
■ he men of this generation, in r> fer< rce to this grea. 
mor I nd benevo'ent e'lterprise. — Ohio. Pemp. O/^an. 



lit the Ul.it li Jl 
oitHiiisrd of five < 
nmh tl.txn ja in 
;,' (I iln 1 (.i Iv tyk-i' 
1st- \Vhute > iii • i. 



;.l i in-lit e uf Oliio, 
tit s, tit ensis were 
t ut nt y%p seii liquor; 
•s i.lt iii.ti battery in 
ii he » oitnty which' 



oiiiihiti ii lolvgftliav i t-ji.oi dealing. Titit. f. 

Facts a e Sti imm . \ Things We see it 
• .ateil in thi-liisi M:iss;;i i.;i>i !t > Cataract 
aat in the viilageol 1'a.v. n niiiiibt ring 665 
tere have been in ot) ye-ars'thi.r - -« ne rum- 
ellers. Si.ifnn I'.av*- filler! it business — 
jg'.d have died iie»v l\eiit. of whom seven- 
aere driiiikards— ot t die-i deleriun; tre- 
nens — one a phujier in Veiniont. 'Two' 
lied in Ohio, one in I tiea. .\. Y., two in 
Grafton, and ihne in I'axtni. One was 
>ent to the house of eonectinn for three 
years, one is n v\ -,\ pauper in the town- - 
-is. ran i ff, ;>nd a majority of those now liv- 
ii"; are not worth a shil ing" Ex P. 

The >!ass. Oi w i rop says that the Di- 
rectory of the Fall iiiver Hail road have 
tlettided by a vote lli.it no ardent spirit* 
shali be iransj ericd over th -ir vo\id hx. /*. 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. Tke .following " 
tracts ai'eon baud and iVr sale at iKis otiice. by «r.e 
crty Ass-jciation. 

Condition of Liv ; ng. 

The cause of Hard times. 

In uence of Slave pov er 

One more appeal to ( hris.i&ns &. Churches. 

Bible Polhics. 

Jewish Servitude.. 

Smith & Clarkson. 

fersons he/d to service. 

Loyal National Repeal Association. 

Duties and L»ignitii> of American Fret mi n. 

Ill Treatment of People <>t ei.lor in the U. I 

Testimony ofa Southern Wi n- as ('. M. C'lu_ 

The law!e>stiess of slavery. 

Poems on S/avery by Lorigfellow. 

The Missouri Compromise. 

Smiths Constitutional Argument. 

Two cents Postage 
A<Wpi*i i n tb». P(4sple ofKonhicky hv 0. M. Chv. 



TemperCT.ee in Prusticn Selesia., Temperance Soci- 
eties havr no w l.t le jitc't ltd more fateiable efects 
tl an in ij } * r Sehsi-. Fiim a rfpert julrliihid b 
^he authorities of this province, under the older of t e 
King, aiid posted up about th.e cit> , it appears lhal du- 
i ing the last year, eighteen distilleries l ave been con 
verkd into csu.bli*-! mtiUft for seme other -branch > f la- 
bor, and an hundred i nd eight oth ts have been eft un- 
mploy<d. That iii the quantity of biaudy made during 
(he same t me there 1 as i k n a d»ci«a.'e d more tl an 
! 3,050,OOC qiiHrts, ficm tl at made in'tl e jcar jrtct 
'mg; aid ,1 at ccnsiquentU lie duties on spirituouf 
inuors 1 ave bit n if sufct Cf( \<U \laUii>. Tl at tki 
ower classes of the people 1 ave been much n;ore eon 
•ant at church tl an before; that the app!i< a» : oii to labor 
' as 'been gr< a'f r, demffetinHife more tian^uil, and very 
' w- di-turi ances in the j iblic stre I av takt n place 
Tl es" facts hi-ve bi r:i made ki Ow n to all the h-tri" 1 it>n 
1 d proprietors of Se'e>ia b\ circulars addressed to th. 
i : rectors of (listric's. Cor. tj tt.t Joi rr cl ('a Ecl< ts. 

lylect if the firm tuffj (,n ti'it e.i 
rug din it. — !n i'eterboro, [Vladis«n county 
9 pt r.M.fis Jut \ * bit-en !i< tn.'td tostft iat x 
.-aling drink.'-. Five a bandci ed ti e bui- 
iiess Vtahoul any «.»in to (iieisiswves bn 

iving oceasione^ great !'»..:. to ilietr iiidn - 
:iotis rei^hbors. 'Iwiniy \v: ie stdi lit 
n£ when /lie account \vas taken nil <lratil- 
t d> and pt)or, a nd inosl of i hem a cbai-ffi 
villi their lafnilies upon ti e tiwii. t#An. 
ad died liiiii.kau'.s, and j t t,r. 

Timely Heiike — A stage driver w;u 
hffervtd to take a glass of brandy at even 
ivern he stopped at. '-|)o giVe youthorst*! 

little of your br ndy," said a pasengt'i 

hey do all the work, anil ii brandy is n 
■sary to keep up iheir strength ihey ni 
ntltledto it." The driver hemmed am 
aueda little, looked hard at. the passer 

nger, mounted hiftbox, but said nothing 
lix. Pr. 



A fa; mrr who all along supj ostC ! r v a.°. a citizen of- 
C n;id , but wh • was tuned over m Vermont by the 
lat' liming of .be boundaiy, lin • ri( Crartfd h : msc!f high 
Ip satisfied wi.K lh ! n! aij.\ b ".-aus" Canada was al- 
wavsa «■"/;■' ■ p'n^; ^ . r>'~ T. 



V » -' V # 

A.NTI 'SLAVERY BOOK wSTORE. 

Myron Fiush and Tl omas A. W d lave opened an 
ofltcw^ for the sale of An i Slav r\ Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c. at lift Nassau S'r -\, N--w York, Let them 
be well patronized. 



• MODERN PROThk/l A./i CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is th.? titk of a K .ok" 'by the Rev. 
George Bourne, expos -ng sum of h in.quijous pro- 
;eetfiagi of Eccl siasifea b<<di. s ih the ProtesUat 

church. It shou'd be r ad by %vt-ty body. 
Tor sale a: this oiuce, pri:e 3! c. nts. 

CONGREG ATtO.N ALIsM A I < HURCH AC- 



TION Is a Sftiall I pt.k t ilii 
Pastor of a Congregsitfonfil C't 
St» read ly u vtv body. A f- 
freeman Office, Boon'. on. N 



JOHN KEEP 
Ohio. It should 
r>v 'it the 



ANTJ SLAVERY R JjX..^ For sale at the Office of 

he Freeman, Boon .i n, N. J ' 



LIBER T YJMJjYS TREL< 

\ le ■ <•■ pi '3 • f Cl rk - l.ioe i M t-strd art fur 
i e a! bi < fli 
T"is is sup li-irt n y 'hiujr ( he hind we hive 
• en ti nd i-h mkI b- in t e o-» n • < f every ore (hat 
.ves eoi'd I list--. » ltd 'eves t »!;•; a good use of it. 
P ice. 44 Cents; 



liutnlnn Has'i'mgif'/ii i wfiijuntfi Uoicv- 
leiil Sbdfffy. — luecis evei v Monday eve- 
ing in") lie Fri-e l lmreti L> .C. iSorris, 
'i csio'ciit., Marcus \\\ ai t > •Secretary. 

Biftnluu Libit'/ ij Assw itttion, — meets th€ 
irst I-'iiday evening ol'i \ cry month." 
A. Livarts, Pi esidwii, C li. Norris, t9in\ 



> OIL. 2. 

THE FREEMAN 

0"» f.^W^' ljflLL BE PUBLISHER MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

T p M S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 

From the Emancipator 

\<m«\ 'ki oTHE GARLAND FORGERY 

We liavc h;ul the documents in our hands sver- 
hl w eeks, but w ithout feeling fully -at liberty to^use 
•Jho.m as our own inclinations dictated. Being freed 
from doubt on this seotp, we hasten to lay them bet re 
the public. They show beyond all question, whowore 
the guilty agents in the celebrated "Garland Letter'' — 
Mb forged letter from James G- Birtiey to James B. 
Ga'land, by which the Whig leaders in Michigan, In- 
diana, Ohio, New York, Maine and Qihei States sought' 
to blast the character of one of the most upright men liv- 
ing, because they thought he stood in the way- of their 
eWating their idolize d slaveholder and duellist to the 
highest office of the natioa. 

*L Ad the eireumshuici s may not be all fr.esh in the 
minds of all oqr readers, we w ill premise, that shortly 
r befor the presidential election in. 1844, the leading 
"Whg papers throughout the North were simultaniou.-dy 
famished with a slip, purporting to be an extra of the 
"G en see Democrat, "-a Whig paper in the State of 
Michigan, and to contain a letter from Mr. Birney, the 
Libeity candidate for the presidency, to J. B. Garland 
declaring his. RirJO.ey.'s adhesion to the.Democraticparty 
-j-with an affidavit by Mr. Garjand, befoie**i magistrate, 
of the ^enuin.Mio.ss of the l-.dl.er — all forged. So import 
tan' was diis deemed to be, that the State Committee in 
Indiana hastily issued it in an extra, judiciousy- timed 
\jp as to reach every part of the. State about three dasy 
lefoie the election; the Portian Advertiser did the same 
mi. G id dings, hi the Western Reserve* Mr. V> er. 
In Massachusetts, and other orators, pledged (".i-ru - 'iw-- 
f i its genuim-m-ss, kr. Uc. A Jew whig papers <>eem to 
nave been mysteriously cautioned nat to commit them- 
selves to it, but tin? party made free a r d full use of it, to 
[the, utmost, to draw off Liberty voters from their fuh>'i- 
(ty^and induce them to vote for Mr. Clay. ... 
[ Jilr. Birncy was at this juncture o\\ his way to his 
home fti saginaw, in tho remote partof Michigan, return- 
ing from i journey to N. England for- twq.of his children. 

JBeingumex-ppctedly detained three or four days at 
Jiuffaloj tat- a violent snowstorm, he met the forced 1-t- 
ierat Cleveland, on the day of the Ohio election, which 
0th 'revise he would not have seen until after all elections 
fcere over; and was thus enabled to expose it in season 
for the lections in. New England. But for a very long 
time it seemed as though the guilty authors of the for- 
j^iy had'eovered their crime from human detection. 
w» Ath:ngth,however, the eye of justice has pierced the 
darkness, and the immediate agents have been discov- 
ered, and their guilt fully proved, by the following affi- 
davits, to which we now call our readers' attention : 

. "Tie !'•> buying statements are made at the request of 
pharles 11 Stewart, of Detroit, on behalf of James G. 
Jirney. (w \ 

statement of mr. sherwood, of 

'pontiac., 

In October lH .44, 1 w;v> 1- idol aWl publisher of "The. 
Geanessre County Democr-at," which advocated the 
Erection of Henry clay. During said month a gentleman 

ifie whig party, residing in Pontiac, informed me tiia. 



BOOWTOJi", APM3L,;V:, \$ y ±6. 




a measure was on foot >\ L:c,b. would, $geiire thc.t* lection 
of Mr Clay and I wouM probably bfj,app'ied to on th< 
subject, and if so I was neither to affirm B#r deny tht 
matter Vrjquitea apbut, He did net acqain.t me wj.ti 
imyofthe partjculatg, nor bed I any suspicions . o 
what they we're. Soon afterward, vt ithin a few days 
-i letter was received hv the Whig Central Commiite. . 
stating thai a certain <1 cum ut purporting to be "jJk- 
Genesee Cotinty Democrat Exira" was in.chr uhitice. 

rlhtsfnin'g an alb dgedjletter bom James G. Birncy ... 
J/ R; GVlnnd, an aftfefayit from tU latter^ with otb^ 
••ociimpn *. arid Mr, Howard enqm'red whether the said 
Docrimerit was genine. The c> rnmtftee showed n. 
'.he. letter. -* I immediately' kheV t!iaf mr .document wa ; - 
that about whose forthcoming I htfcFweh w'ainod,as al- 
ready staffed. Tfife Committee infeffped ;i1r. Howard 
by the'next post, that it was a gross forgery, and a. 
their request added my' affidavit, subSfan'ially the satm 
bI nn ■■■ I subsequ' ntly niade. This letter was received 
at least ^ n da; s before the November electron, T first 
st^hht'^mm^ l^if Fr# Press of 1st No 

'oT^rv'.' ' On the' 4th 



vernbi r, puldisb.^d rif 

being election day, I published an l-^x'tra Democrat con- 
ntainmg an expdstire » f the forgery,' nercto annexed, 
and continued in the regu'ar paper ofsKe Nth. Although 
I did not then know the authorship iff the • forg'-ry, i 
suspected in Pontiac among the Whig leaders. My 
drst positive information was from Ifbthl A. Stim.son 
and Josej^h Becbe, then comro?'^!^ ft the "Oakland 
Gazette office", of Font inc. They late'y informed 
me it was, printed in the < ffiice of that paper, by the 
Editor Mr. Tompsoa. 

"I also have in my possession »rie of the original for-^ 
geries; it is the -ty p< ami paper itwUl'.'.hv lite Oa!(^, 



c bn 4 Jf we knew what they were doing in the office th e 
vening before. The question irdo';ed us to make a 
lose search in the office, and we there found the form 

It was not distributed, but w as tied round with a cord, 
nd enclosed in some paper, and was hid isway rifld r 
:•• -ni" hooks and papers. It was the form which ] it] 
struck off the article in question. We read enough of 
, Co knowbsotm'ents'nnd recognize it; and more" par- 
a:;!i-:v, because someitype fell out,. and we had-t'o 
,earch for their places' to restore them. The. article 
v.- cam». .public shortly auonvards anrt we at once r<- 

Pontuic, Oct. 25, 1845.. ,,,. r 



N.. A. STJ> f SON. 
JOSJIEPH BEEBE. 



■(Signed) 

Statf. cr-MrentGAN, } 

Oakland County, S«. $ ' ' * 

Win. -B.. Sherwood, N. A. Stimson, and Jliqseph 
Beebe, 'being duly s« or ; n, io depose, and say«tfiat the 
facts set forth in their several statements iu the above 
made are flue to the best of their knowledge and belief. 

Sworn before me on this 29th dgy of October, A. D. 
IS45. '"' 

(Signed) WM." J. HENDERSON, 
Justice of the Peace. 
The most material facts here stated are these: 



1. That some time .prior to the appearance of the 
Garland Forgery, the editor of the paper who-, name 
was surreptitiously used, Mr. Sherwood, u a.- n-.u::. ti- 
ed fo'answer cva?uvely in case he should be er.i:-: <-. d ot 
bout an irnpor'.au disclosure that was to take pla-'.e. 

We have information from another. quarter :ha' the 
name of the individual who ga,v.o him the cau't >• v i j-ii- 
*md Gazette, and the .type and form stiil used; facts? df f rom personal consid. rations honorable to Mr. S , 

but that he is one -very high among the Whig manag'-rs 
If nooessary his name wi4 be disc losed. 

That Mr. Sherwood, to his honor, refus '. t- • 



which I -speak w ith confidence from ny familiarity 
with the subject. The Pontine Jaeksonian of the 1 Oth 
September last, distinctly charged that the forgery was 
"prit lid by Whliain M. Tompson, Oakland Gatf tie 
Ohice, Pontiac, Miohigan," And it was so pnnted be- 
yond all question. 

(Signed) : WM. B* SHERWOOD. 

STATEMENT OF. NATHAN1EL-A. STIMSON 
AND JOSEPH BEEBS. 

" In Octoher 1844, we were compositors in (h^ of- 



2. 

meke himself a too! hf the comspirators, but immedie- ■ •> 
answered that the -Garland Lett'-'-r was a gross f« g y, 
communicated the fact to the Hon. Jacob M. Row; am 
of D troit, Chairman of the Whig State Corjnniittee^ ut 
ledat ten days before the. election in MWlngPU/JPsOV. 4 

3. That the "Geiv see County Democrat Kxti.v' 
was printed at the office of the Pontiac Gante, a Whig 



lice offhe Oakland 'Gazette. Tuwards (lie end of stid | paper, by W. Tompson, the publisher of that paper, nd 
month, the jprWis? time not going now recol!ected ? Mr. j-j. H. Duncklee, in the night time, the^egu .ar eon: 
William M. Tompson, editor and pid-ivher of the pa 
per"; told us tqyn to his he-is that night to Lodge. 



We had a bed in the office, and had a'wr 



v. s previous. 



lv slept there. This unusual direction 
surprise alio ctiwosny. We left trie office 
but returned to discover if posible, what was going on. 
The office is on the giound flour, and wc-re ena- 
bled to look over the 'top a curtain which hung ai;.eh- 
st the window, and -re •!>'- ; re'-" ; er of e riffiee. W 
perteivd some printing was doing, and that in the offic e 
were M. Tompson, the editor, togeih »r wijh H. H 
Dnnklccj M'.'ses Wisr.er and Claries Draper, of .Pom 
iac, and all Whigs. The first two were setting type 
the latter two ; Wcre sitting down. The following morn- 
ing we examined the press, to discover w hat had been 
printed. The Tyrppau," Shye.t had been removed, bt< . 
i*n the Tympnn itse lf there remained the impress of the 
work done plainly discernible. The tvmpan islhoeu-e 
on which rests trie paper to b f * print' d. In this Co 
the article "was that which was .^ubs -quently so w e! 
knbwn as "The Garland forgery." 

We have seen, and there new is, in the .lacksoniai 
Office one ofthe original forgeries. It is the same 
as the article we saw on the y < 



lpan/rind was struck <j' 



i)y the same form that nrtdeWe ith] i ■ ; oi, thereon 
Duiiii<- the same day we were asked by Mr Thomp- 



pipsitSrsbpihg sent-out of the oITcp, and Moses Wisr, r 
and Charles Draper being presen. The Whig candidate 
for Congress in that Dw! i ret was George W. Wisner ; 
jxcJted our | W( . know not whether Moses Wisner is his brother or 
as desired. no t. 

4. Mr. Howard, in one of his puhlicMii ns reft rs to 
! fitters that l»e wrot'e to his easteru friends, cau.tirr.'ng 
them about the Garlai-id letter. We have rep :i <- ". : y 

d 'ondly called for the predwetion of one of t'-»-s, b '.- 
ters, but not one has been produced. We \ :, 
comi'are them with 1 he fact that Mr. Howard was ex- 
pressly informed by Mr. Sherwood that it was a '-'gross 
forgery," at least ten days before the .-lection — thai ii , 
us only as the- 24th of October. .We Print to see the 
dates of Mr, Howard's letters, and see wheiher he i x- 
plicitly declared H to he forger} - . The editors of the 
Boston Al as, New York Tribune, and Portland A' : '. < r- 
):*->•, probably haVo such let U is. Let us havi a lock 
■d them. 

5. One of the editors of the Detroit Advtjuiser was 
a nu mber of tin- Slate Onti-ai Commulee. In bis pa- 
of November 1, 1844, a week after th y had rec-ived 
Mi. Sherwood's letter, denouncing the afiair as a "gross 
forgery," he has the follow ing editorial cci.c« tning tin's 
forged letter.: 

"Mu. Bjunkvs L;. ; u:e.. — As to .tlie genuiac-ness 'of 



the alleged copy of Mr. Birney'e {ettor to Mr. J. B 
Garjand, to which the Fvee Press of last evening de- 
votes a column and a half, we kqow nothing, and can 
say nothing. 

It is certain that gome such Icttor was written ; but we 
wait for further developments. The Free Press may 
find its curses, another Roorback, tried on some Loco- 
foeo. We should n't wonder." 

"We know nothing" — saysthie editor, with Sher- 
wood's affidavit before him a whole week, declaring it 
a "gross forgery." These are the arts with which men 
of standing sought to secure the election of 
"Clay and Frclinghuyscn." 

"Some such letter was written." No such le'tef 
waa wiittcn ; and this direct and palpable falsehood has 
never bfi-ri retracted or apologized for. 

6. It is of great importance, we* believe, that these 
affidavits should ho widely circulated, and the facts here 
reiterated before the people, until they will understand 
it, and see who are the guilty ones. It is of great im- 
portance to c.irctilatejjthe facts, and let the people pro- 
nounce their acntegce. We have no doubt the Liberty 
party papers will do all that is in their power for this 
purpose. Will the Whig papers have the honor and. 
honesty to publish the truth in this case ? We shall 
B*e. 

7. Watch against the efforts which the"guilty party 
Cttjr make, first to make light of atrocious crime against 
the people's'liberty, and thenjpervert the truth, or buy 
Hp the witnesses." 

8. Sherwood woa cautioned before-hand what to 
answer when inquired of. Howard writes at once to 
the Genesee Committee to makefthe predetermined in- 
quiries. Sherwood refures to make the answer expect- 
ed. Still, Howard and the Advertiser treat him as if 
they had received the evasive answer from Sherwood. 
No one supposes that Thompson conceived the plot, or 
wrote the letter. Where did it originate ? We hope 
this question may yet be answered. 



From, the Liberty Standard. 

We >::mnot fill a column more usefully than with the 
following extracts. Very few names in England or Amer- 
ica are more belnvedjjby christians than those of James 
Had! Barnes. WilLnot their truthful testimony be re- 
garded? If thu language of others is surrounded with 
odium so that chmtiuw cannot embrace the truth it 
contains, will not these men be heard? 

Fro^n the Advocate of Peace. 
THE JDUTXES AND DERELICTIONS OF THE 
CHURCH. 



By Rev.|Iohn Angel Jatnea, England. 

»Var is one of humanity's direst curses; one of the 
most horrid demons that ever escaped from hell to des- 
olate the earth; and yet there is a fascination and a spell 
in it, which all its blood, and groans, and unutterable 
iniseiyjjare ao^yet strong enough to break. The mil- 
itary passion which one wou'd imagine to be the first 
^ha*. Christianity would subdue, will be found to be a 
rnoB? the last to yield-to its power; and the glory ?>i 
firms, as it is so called, will be, perhaps, the latest to h 
eclipsed and lost amid the mild radience of the Sun o 
righteousness. But, assuredly, even this shall be ac- 
complished, if there be any truth in revelation, oran\ 
powerlin Qod. How is it that the pacific principlei 
of the rtfew Testament make way so slowly in the 
world? Just because they make so little way in tht 
z,\urck. The church of Christ does not seem. tftk;UOw hei 
vocation, r;s a mirror to reflect truth upon the world, 
ijiqt sho has committed (mother mistake; and that is, in 
not rightly appreciating what the truth is. She has 
.">u fined her attention too exoluslv ( dy to creeds and for 
uiularies of doctrines, and has held up to the world -only 
p portion of truth. Things that ought to be done are 
truths, as well as those that ought to be believeed. 



Lovt} Js » great, glorious and fundamental truth, for Got! 
the first truth is love, The church ought to shine forth 
in the. lustre of all practical truth; She as little knows 
herpoicer as she does her vocation. She underrates 
her iufluence, forgetting that she is the habitation, the 
body, the organ of the living God. The Lord her Cod 
in the midst of her is mighty. And then it must be con- 
fessed and lamented, that what right principles, either 
theoretical or pradical, she does hold and exhibit, lose 
their efficience & influence for want of vigor and consis- 
tency in her own spiritual state and conduct. Her voice 
isnot heard, her counsels are not followed, her example 
is not imitated, her power is not felt, for want of more 
that is divine and heavenly about her. She is too like 
the world to lead her. She does not appear as tht; 
tabernacle of the Lord. Let the church be what she 
ought to be, what she might be, and what she one day 
will be, and she would command the attention, secure 
the reverence, and obtain the submission of the. world 
on all points of truth and morals. Slavery and wars, 
at their bidding, wonld come out of the bodies they have 
possessed, troubled and tormented, just as the demons 
did, which at the voice of Christ, left the men who 
dwelt among the tombs, and entering into the swine, 
left their former victims in liberty and peace. Men do 
not see the sin of .slavery and war, however clearly they 
perceive and willingly acknowledge their evils. And 
why do thev not see it? Because their spiritual vision 
is weakened bv the feebleness of their piety. The sense 
of the spiritual eye is in the heart; and if that be dull & 
obtuse, moral truth is not, and cannot be clearlv dis- 
cerned. 

"The animal man discerneth not the things of the spir- 
it of God, neither can he know them, because they are 
spiritually discerned;" and this effect must be felt just 
in proportion as the animal nature gains power even in 
those who are renewed. Our great aim therefore, must 
be to bring up tone and vigor of practical godliness in 
churoh; to prepare her clearly to see the sin of war 
Hnd slavery, and, at the same time, to give tenderness 
to the conscience, and resoluteness to the will, for the 
destruction of these enormous crimes. 

And who ought to be foremost in the church, but its 
pastors? If the church is the light of the world, they 
are the light of the church. Instead of sinking to the 
level of the people, they should draw up the people to 
their own; instead of a timid, shrinking, time-serving 
spirit, and acting upon the law of expediency, let them 
in the spirit of martyrdom — and what else, or less, is the 
spirit of the gospel? proclaim from the pulpit, and, if 
need be from the prison and the stake, the sin of what- 
ever qpposeth itself tq the kingdom of God. When 
the church is what it ought to be, the world will be 
converted; and the church will be what it should be 
when its ministers are. A better chureh^vill make a 
better world, and a better ministry wil| make a better 
church" Let this be sounded forth through all lands. 
Birmingham, Nov. 14th, 1845. 



Rev. A. flaws on Slavery , 
Th following remarks occur in the thanksgiving ser- 
mon of Rev M.\ fiarnjes of Philadelphia.. He had. been 
-peaking 6fW»n, Penn and the Quakers; 

"Now hero, \ am persuaded, ia a w ise mode) for all 
other denominations of christian men, and the true idea 
>fall successful efforts for the removal of this great evil 
torn the land" Let s%\\ evangelical denominations but 
follow the simple example of the Quakers in this coun- 
ty, and slavery would soon come to an. end. Then 
•s not vital energy enough; there is not power of nuni 
hers and influence enough out of the church to sustain 
it. J\eX «cwy religious denomination in the land detach 
tself from connection with slavery, without saying ;i 
word against others; let the time come when in all the 
mighty denominations of christians, it can ht» announced 
that the evil hat ceased with tkem forkwk; and let thr 
voice from each denomination be lifted up in kind, bu. 
firm and solemn testimony against the system — w ith n< 
'mealy word$; with no atteSapt at apology; with no 
wish to blink it; with pp effort to throw the sacred shield 
>f religion over so great an evil, and the work is done 
There is no public retime nt in this land — there could bs 



none created, that would reaist the power of such ates«, 
timony: there Is no power out of the church that could 
sustain jjlRvevy an hour, if it were not sustained in it. 
Not a blow ne< d be struck. Not an unkind word ut- 
tered. IN o man's motive need be impugned. No man's 
proper rights invadtd. All that is needful is, for each 
christian man, and for each christian people, to stand 
up in the sacred majesty of such a solemn testimony; to 
free themselves from all connection with the evil, and 
utter a calm and deliberate voice to the world, and the 
work will be done." 

Por the New Jersey Freeman. 

POSITION OF THE LIBERTY 
PARTY, 

Mr. Editor; 

Will you permit us, who have long been 
engaged in the Antislavery cause, to present to your 
readers, very briefley, a few considerations on the pres* 
ent condition and future prospects, of the Liberty Party? 
The positions we shall advanoe will be of material im- 
portance, and are therefore deserving of a careful and 
candid examination. We trust, then, that no one of 
yeur readears will hastily commit himself against them, 
but follow the apostolic injunction-^"pruve ail things, 
and hold fast that which is good." 

Lest we make this communication too long, we will 
present what we havo to say in the shape of simple 
propositions. 

J. Slavery will be abolished before the present moral 
and political movement against it shall cease. 

IL It will be abolished by some national political 
party, that shall have the power and inclination to do it. 

III. The Democratic party will not abolish it; it has 
the power, but not the inclination. On the contrary, it 
has laboured, and will continue to labor for its aggran- 
disement and surpreamacy. 

' IV. The- Whig party, as now organized, will not a- 
bolish Slavery: for it has not the power nor the will to 
do it. It never has taken any ground, as a party, a* 
gainst Slavery: prominent Slaveholders are its haders: 
it musters three or four hundred thousand voters in the 
Slave States, of whom a hundred thousand, probably, 
are personally Slaveholders. While these are members 
of the party, it cannot become an av(nl#very party; and 
should these be withdrawn from fits ranks, the result 
would be radical disruption of the party, and its final 
extinction, or its reorganization on another basis. 

V. The Liberty party have the vWto abolish Slava^ 
ry, butthay have not the power. Can they attain the 
requisite power to abolish it by their own legislation? 
We answer' that thi'y cannot, while they refuse to toko 
ground or any subject except the abolition of Slavery — 
The reasons, fur holieving this are these: 

1 . If there be three national parties, the Liberty party 
must have a-willion of votes; if there be but two, it 
must have a million and a half of vetes to abolish Sla- 
very, This gre;U number cannot be obtained by ap- 
pealing to the antislavery principle only. No politi- 
cal partyovor attained such numbers by advocating one 
principle, and refusing all expressions of opinion on oth- 
< r subjects. 

2. Thoao who aet with the Liberty party must for- 
sake »H connection with the determination of all other 
political quostious until Slavery shall be abolished, even 
if that be accomplished in six, twelve, or twenty yeajri 
This will net be done by one-third or one-half the vo- 
ters of the United States. 

3. The appeals to the antislavery principle thus far 
have not secured the votes of the massct in any pajft of 

he country. In 500 counties in the FTee State*, the 
Liberty party, in six years, have not carried a sigle one, 
but their votes have been almost entirely from the class 
of Philanthropists and of Religious men. 

4. The past success of the party doesnot warrant the 
xpectation that it can become a permanent, na.tioual k 

triumphant party; on its preaeout basi*. The vote last 
o ar, after six years existence, was about ?0,AOft. To 
iholish Slavery, ffteot, or twenty t\at »w»ia*r aff 

tndesp*$rib,k. 

VI. The Liberty party attain the requaftr power 
o abolish Slavery, by taking such ground as wilt bring 
to its standard sufficient nmnhev*. This ran be. done 



by taking right ground on all political questions; by 
making it a party of progress; of national reform; of 
justice, economy and peace; just such a party as our coun 
try needs — such an one as every Patriot and Christian 
can sustain, and ask the God of Heaven to bless. To 
make it such, it should, take such ground on everysub- 
ject as will beat promote Hie goodof the whole country. — 
This should be done without reference w hatever to old 
party distinctions. With out presuming on any superi- 
or wisdom, we will «tate what we conceive that ground 
should be, on some of the most important topics that 
present themselves s 

1. The Abolition of Slavery, — by constitutional 
means should continue to be the paramount object of the 
party. 

2. Equal Political and Civil Rights, — should 
be secured to every citizen without reference to nativi- 
ty, color or descent. This principle would do away with 
all monopolies and special privileges, granted to corpor- 
ations or individuals, and also with all unequal taxa- 
tion. 

3. A thorough Reform ov the Judici ary System- 
-«-both State and National, so that the Laws shall be 
made more intelligible, decisions more conformed to 
justice, judgement more speedily rendered, the num- 
ber o i technicalities dmoished 5 and the cost of admins- 
tering justice greatly reduced. 

4. Tii£ Election of all National and State Of- 
ficers, — so far as the nature of the circumstancee will 
permit. Especially should this reform be applied to 
Postmasters, who should be elected by the citizens of 
the town or city in which they are located. 

5. The Reduction of Salaries — of all pesons in 
public employ to ns low a rate as will secure incumbents 
of the requisite qualifications and abilites. 

6. Tin: Gradual Reduction of the Army and Na- 
vt — with a view to their ultimate abolition as soon as 
the circumstances. of the country, and ofonther nations, 
shall render it advisable. Every President recommends 
an increase of the preperations for War, and they now 
swallow up two-thirds of the National Revenue. Du- 
ring the fifty-six years that our Government has been 
in operation, there has been War with civilized nations 
only threi< years. Yet according to a recent report of 
the Secretary of the Treasury, Congress has appropri- 
a*ed during that period — 

For Military Service, $286,998,357 
For Naval do 178,933,121 



VII. If they refuse to do this, they will be a men 
Temporary party, shortlived in existence, few in num- 
bers and accomplishing no other good than to prepare 
the way for the coming of another that shall succeed 
it, that will not only be antislavery, but will take 
ground on all the subjects in which American citizen. 1 - 
are interested. It will take the place of the Liberty 
party, do its work, and the early antislavery pioneers 
will ultimately become enlisted in its raiiks. 

Now, Mr. Editor, we submit these considerations to 
vour readers, and will make no argument respecting 
them, further than to ask, whether it would not be bcter 
for the great cause in which we are engaged, for the 
Liberty party to improve the opportunity which now 
presents itself for obtaining jhe power directly to abolish 
Slavery, (and which apportunity is fast passing a way,) 
than'to commit our noble enterprise into the hands of 
another set of men to come after us, w hose devotion to 
the One Idea of Abolition will he more recent its date, 
less unmixed in its character. less predominent over oth- 
er interests, and more liable to the opposition of old 
party prejudices, and the seductions of selfish interests. 

GUY BECKLEY 
THEODORE FOSTER 
Ann. Arbor, Mich. Feb. 24, 1846. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOON TON, MARCH 14, 1846. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanit) withers. Keep. 



Making- a total of 465,931,481 
The Pensions and Interest on the Public debt, conse- 
quent on these prepcratious, amount to about One Hun- 
dred Millions ruore. A similar expenditure for the 
next half century, proportionate wtth our increase as a 
nation, as recommended by Presidents Polk and, Tyler, 
would require more than One Thousand Millions to be 
expended in preperations for Wars, of which there is 
now not any probibility, Such enormous and grievous 
taxation for War, In the present age of the world, after 
thirty years of profound peace, is ne ither necessary or 
wi.se, and should be. opposed by the Liberty party. 

7. A Tariff for Revenue — so long as the expenses 
of the National Government are so great as they now 
are. But should they be reduced — as they might be 
by the measures before enumerated — to one-third oi one 
half the present amount, the cumbrour machinery of the 
Custom Houses would be no longer necessary, but the 
public Treasury, could then besupp'ied better and more 
cheaply by a small direct tax upon the many and in- 
creasing millions of industrious citizens. In this case, 
the Tariff should be abolished, but so gradually as to 
save every interest vested under its provisions. 

Q. The REDuction of the Post Office Tax. —In this 
Republican country, the people ought to be served as 
cheap as the subjects of ancient monarchies; and the 
Franking Privilege should bo entirely abolished. 

Thus while, Slavery will be abolished by the iegi^la 
tion of national party having the power and the v. ill to 
do it, we affirm that the Liberty party may become 
that party by using the means we have stated: but, 



C<^»We give on the first page the result of some in- 
vestigations in relation to the infamous garland<5"rgery. 
They show conclusively how that wicked business was 
done, and by whom. 

The whig editors must either confess that they pub 
iished these forgeries knowing them to be such^ or that 
they were duped by certain whig leaders. The former 
is propably the case witha large portion of them of them 
The fraud has been exposed sufficiently to satisfy any 
honest mitid for more than a year, and yet we know of 
not one whig editor that ever attempted to set the pub- 
lic mind right on that point. They have done all they 
could do, to destroy the Liberty party and the reputa 
tion of its friends by their infamous lies, and now leav< 
the public mind as far as their influence extends under 
the impressions which their s'anders first produced. 

The whigs exhibited unparalleled meanness in the 
first place in giving publicity to these forgeries, these 
chickens of their own hatching, stamped as they were 
upon the face of them with absurdity and falsehood, at 
that time and under the circumstances they did. The 
abuse that they helped upon liberty men, in the fall of 
1844, because they would not believe their ridiculous 
lies, will long be remembered. 

They will long rest upon the whig party as a burning 
stigma. These exposures should be published & re- 
published by Anti-Slavery Editors; and Anti-slavery 
men should hold them up before the world without cea- 
sing, until they are fully understood every where. Let 
ihese documents be sown broadcast over the land and 
Justice will he done to the innocent, while the guilty 
shall reap the wages of iniquity. 



The Liberty Party. The signs of the times are 
most cheering to ths.se friends of the Slave which Li 
ileve that slavery is to he voted down. Slavery h>- 
been vo/ed in/o c;<isienee, nr.d we rejoice in the belii ; 
thot it is soon to be voted out of existence. Libert) 
papers are increasig in number and size. The Indian; 
Freeman has been enlarged twice within about thre- 
months, and otheis appear in new tyi e and give cheer 
ing indications of prosperity. C. M. Clay is pursu- 



ing his way unmolested, ard the fubesriptitn list of tb 
Kentucky True American is rapidly incresing while Dr. 
Snodgrass with his Saturday visitor is shaking the Slate 
of Maryland to its centre. The iniquitous laws which 
make ma rkctable commodities of human souls muet 
be repealed, and they cannot be repealed without roting; 
and it is one of the most cheering signs of the times 
that men are beginning to feel the importance of using 
their moral influence at the ballot box. 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

The election in New Hampshire, may be hailed as 
a great Anti-Slavery victory. Most of the whig editors 
are lustlv crowing over it as a w hig triumph, while a 
few of the more considerate, who look forward-to what 
is to come, do not feel very much elated. It is sup- 
posed that a whig governor will be elected, and M. 
Hale will be appointed Senator. The Liberator says. 

"The intelligence will cae.se the demon of Slavery 
to send up a howl of despair" Can any one show that 
this glorious result is not to be attributed to the Liberty 
part? The result is as follows for members of the 
House. 

Liberty men 14 Independent Democrats 22 
Whigs 102 Democrats 122 
The Independeut Democrats may be safely be coun- 
ted with the Liberty men. They never can go back to 
the Democrats nor over to the whigs; and slavery is the 
ground of their seperation from the old party; therefor* 
it is reasonablo to calculate that they will continue with 
Liberty party. They nominated the Liberty Candidate 
for governor after he was nominated by the Libertv par- 
ty. We trust that we shall have more such victories 
to record in other States soon. 

(Jf^We give the Documenls from our Michigan 
Friends without comment, except so faros to say, the 
investigation of that subject will hurt nobody 

quarterly 
'meeting. 

The Qarteriy Meeting of the New Jersey Anti Sla- 
very Society w ill be held at Morristown on Tuesday 
28th of May next. Further particulars will be given 
in time, as to the Hour, Speakers &c. 

April 20 1846. A. H. Freeman Sec. 



§3= The Anniversaries. 

$r^=>Tne American end Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
will hold its Anniversary in the Broadway Tabernacle 
in jhe city of New York on Tuesday the 12th of May 
next, at 3 O'clock in the afternoon. The committee 
are making preperations for a great meeting, and of the 
greatest importance. Let it be remembered it is to te 
held in the afternoon. 

{jr-^The Twelth Annual Meeting of the American 
AntiSlavery Socicety will be held in" the Tabernacle 
in the city of Now York on Tuesday the 12th of May 
next. They anticipate n great gathering of the friends 
of the Slave. 

•f-H — m— +- m ■» 

$r$»The friends of the Abolition of Capital Punish- 
ment through the united States, are earnestly request- 
to be represented at the Meeting of The New York 
State Society, to be he'd in this city on Monday, May 
the 11th. Among the speakers expecieil to address 
; his meeting, are Hon. Robert 'Kantoul, Vice Presi- 
dent Dallas, Rev. John Picrpont, Horace Greeley, Rev 
Charles C. Burleigh, Rev. J. N. Maffit, Parke Godwin, 
I. L. O'SulMvan, Rev. W H. Channing and Prof. Pat- 
terson of Philidelpia. 

Josiaii Hopper, See. W. T. McCOtJN, Pres. 



Il is estimated that (lie cost of tea annu- 
» ! 1 y consumed in the United States; is $4, 
0<;6 : 0C0. This looks unfavourable to the 
cauwe oi /co-totality in this country. 



fsuig if. 1 J.. luibi m 



COMER 



' ''Givfe i.p?, ,v . Who_ speaks that era von ■Word.'i 
Whose oowam heart shrinks back? , 
a3rr Who cfares : «qI brave, y ; ith manly 1 ont 
'The penis or our track? 
Who talk-: of rest aria' peace wliue yet 

Our worl£is : 'yet b*gfm r ' • ;'. ! 
Who lays aside his armor, 
M t ---rgfe tneTBaitle fisld is won? 

tigp the ban<h.'ien , s fetters broken? 
*»J 4 AtoPo^? ,mQther.oeased toeinoan 
,».Fpr the si)l4 unJ bleding children, 
Sim may never call her .ovy/i? 
Do^u^cfushed and .broken sjyrjV 
rv^rw.t t_p earth has trod,^ , ■ ; 
^ Sj^iud owsct .ja, c^pscious freedom, • nr. i 

8 - J 1)6 ^rnithicto byeezpsVaft us 
The songs of juhile 7 
Orthew*?! wf ofcofivc op" ions, 
Sr* f Who, are piiiint? "-to Be free? 
.a 1 T.«jya5i)uf %oe'«fo'i'i beon .porlirWii, - ;! rfxi 
ot ji.^!nC' - a*»W-'e«MB»to fr«V >.••: . ; th,. ■» iS 
gift Jft&u -the t^pfo<foflh>aiboye^us,; . -.ta. 



That tamely yields a single Trgrrf, 

. Or.bates a single word ^ , - ^ 
Of God's resistless truth', that yet 
By tyrants snail be heard. . ■', 

Go! strip f'T the confljet, 

I t^fiod Wu.^rii».nie r^pait . 
To Fftecmni's sacred shfincij and "lay _j 

Thy e.hensWG* i^o* 'lfc*feT" 5 ?•< 
Guard well tny h-an., dunust thyself 

Lift iiy.^ccuw-d thing 
-i.'o^ute. with earth-born, selfish lust, 

The. coring thou, d^i bring. 

L"t not thy spirit l'*Hor, 

Lot' thy fa-it h oe firm and str ngj 
-4"-hough th e r. orvihct roanr 1 thee {Inciter 
And the ^Uji^.bvjljfr-^cc anfd l^Wg, 

h;i;ffd -fa-r—fflrfeef are on a rock,' 
TJiv God vtiil be thv shiekL. , , 
Die ;;.»;:, a man, if uie thou luust, 
" ' Buuiever baselv yield. 



' ANTl-S^AVERV TR \CTS. The following 
tracts are on hand and for sale at this office, by the Lib 
erly Association. • • 

. ■'. -orfdutiori of Living'. 
« . -'... The eau'e of HartI liiTies. ' 
Influence of Slave power- 
, One more appeal to Chjriiiiiuns & Churches. 



FeS'sWJs fie /a to service. 
LoyaWrotional Repeal Association. 
f>rafiesahtl Dfenllies of Aine.riean Freemen. 
111 Ireatment oi People Or color in the (j. H 
T stiniony of a Sotuherri Witness. C. M. Clay 
The la\vl«ssfte<» di ha\^ry1^ 
Poems on S/avery hy Lone;fellow. 
The 'JVIibKouri OwnpronnV. 
Smiths Con5titntrftim1' Argument. 
■ I vVo 'cents Postage 

tffi td the People nl'Kentucky hy C. M. Clay 



<• T^i«?>eraiice Record. • 

Kfe** vr-rn pisf anck — The Please and 
ird r^elaiei" the following incident < i 
■ P4ul;tde.p|iia son of Neptune: 

"A i ! \; r >ailor has lately joined the 
•ions of 1 etnperanee in Philadelphia, after 
running p. eotirse of dissipation by which Ins 
cans ueie pretty well exhausted. At the 
i i i of : rniug tTie pledge he was indebted 
ip a rtiiii seller one dulling. A few days ago 
te wt-nt. to pay off the score, but being de- 
teriiiip.ru not to enler the house in which 
ue bad. been robbed, be got a long pole, af- 
r;tcbed '-e piece of money to the end of it 
f«iid ftaudig ;-.t the * tU-side of the door reach- 
ed it t<> ! in- astonished publican and inar -.h- 
eti off with a joiiy heart." Ind. Fre^mau. 



A Man on Fire, 

"Pi t mk out!'' "pur me out!"— The guar- 
dii-s of (I e t.i.-'it were not a little surprised 
toiler uofn a lowly gutter late one night 
last week, ; a sharp earnest -cry— "Put me\ 
out. Put vv> nut !" On drawing near, they 
found a fellow "^i^j]g . .upon .the ^.rb, with 
his feet in the gutter, and leaning against 
the iron post of one of the glasslaiups. It 
poor Ti;:i Lightbody, delirium tre- 
mens had overtaken him in the gutter. His 
brain was onfire & his vitals were burning 
up with rum, and now as he leaned back 
agHiM^ lhe Pj pos]L>o that the full glare of the 
brijiiant. gaslight shone into his blood shot- 
eves an !mp of the Distillery whispered in 
his ear that his head was ori fire! And poor 
Tim' w# s in a cWAjljion to listen to the grin 
mng^chntterinfi' sprite, as it disappeared 
eoun the neck o! the bottle, he lifted up his 
voice and cried lustily: 

"Put me out! Put me out! Fire! Spon- 
trt-Vte-rniW (Vmbustnm has, has took place 
I'm in a light blaze, sir! Away,, A,*'ay, ye 
try godlins, I know yc all. Ye are matches! 
Inciter -fnatelwfv. ■ Ye net ine in a blaze ,Fut 
ne out, water, water, Blow in my, my 
ears, if they ain,t Umnt out. Plow down 
ihv throat — quick. it's red-hot, Qh ; saineho(!_v 
put me out;' , 

And the Charlie* ttmk bin in charge, and 
put him in the watch-house, where he rav 
ed till nnuning, and theu, very early in the 
day, died- Poor fellow, lie was "put out,'' 
most effectually, and by an agent that has 
prematurely snuffed out the light of life 
many millions of times, and filled number 
iess gravrs with nameless, loathsome, uh- 
\vept morlals. These are thy doings, all 
Lestoying Alcohol! 

W ho set that man on fire? 'I'he answer 
is plain, 'he now-sdler did it. Had he set 
Ids cloihes ou fire awl. burnt him he would 
have been punished. he set his hair on 

lite and btirYffc% ofT, it would have been a 
crime ifi (be eve of the law. Put he s'el 
brains his mind, liis soul on lite with the 



fire of alcohoi, which burned ^nd^onsum^d 
like thefive of hell and in this the law pro- 
Jteelsf'hlm; ytt\ gives hh:t a license so" to do 

A Christian who does nothing to. remove 
the evil of intoxicating lirpmra, which de^ 
st roy the bodies and souls bf'Bien. is said to 
be a dark lis>Ht. 

The Cherokee Indians have a Total Ab- 
stinence Society*, numbering three thoiisaiti^ 
and fifty-eight memjlers, Five hnmlred 
and eighty-five have been added during the 
past year. 

Crime and Tutrtnnrrance. — F,i»hty thous 
and one hundred and nmety-eigh.t persons 
have been brought before the magistrates 
in \ew Orleans during the last ten years. 
The arrest of 7~\ thousand w as caused by 
intemperance! 



: fif5» The Amerij ar and For^if7uAMi<Hlave»}- Society 
has ^iaOe preparations to dp a ? good w ork for liberty 

the comming yeaf; .t&n>!>*i Tft * * B 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps ot Bo.-Uei > ei.gaared n.st a- 
2;ent and Editor of the; Ami Sla very Uj j^rtcr. Taa 
Reporter is an excellent paper publish «.•*! -.»nnn.hty at 

118 Nassau street. Nf.^^at. S ''^'Ji •Lilir'Tlifli^MIMlf 

.copy. 5 copies t^PtXCijiddaasSjfig^, 
''3,50. and 50 copias for ^,12»5y^ 
eceived at this office, .". 



10 copies .5 
iiions witl.be 



A>,TI SLAViatV BOOK STORri 

Myron Fineh and Thomas A. Wwm 1 t : .ve bj 
dfflce-fcF the' sale of Jtnrt J siavery^o^tr^ I>j 
Tracts &c. at 11^ Nassau Stre<$T(f&\ir Yttrltfl 
he well pat'-onizeif. ' ' ' * 1 

MODERN PRpT'ESTAN TCjHVRyii. C 
UNMASKED, is the title of a ft. ok hv li 
George Bourne, exposing some of the ini^ui, 
eeediucjs of Eccl.es.iastica! bodies in i" 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale at this office, price 31 cents. 



CONOR EG AT f ON A-MSTVf jP^ : HftfttPft \C- 
TION Is a small book published l,v .'('!; \ KETIP 
f'astor of a Congreirational Ohtireli in Ohio. It should 
be rem 1 by everybody. A few copies for sale at the 
Fi-eeman Gfflce, Ronnton, N J. 



AiVT^lS^tTMV BOOKS For sale at* the O^ice of 
he Freeman,' Boomon. N. J. 



LIBERTY MLYSTREL. 

A fe>^ copies of Clark d Libe ty Mmslrel are ( r 
sa'e at this office. • 

Tliis is superior to any thiug <•( 'ho Kiud wc huve 
<een and shoud be iu the possession of every one ihat 
loves [rood, music, and loves to make a good use of it. 
Pi ice, 44 cents. mnT v'-^i 



'li don ton Washington Temperance Benev- 
olent Society — meets every Monday eve- 
ning iu the Free (Jhurcn. L) .(J. Aon is, 
President, Miircus Evarts /Secretary. ,lbt Hp 

Booitfoti Liberty A.stux intion, -r-mecis the' 
first Friday evening bf^yfflyTObjfltfrg 

Al. Evarts, President. (J. R i\orris, Sec. 

•. >.e--4 rw»*ti -•*•» *«s< ^^mr^ r- 



THE NEW JERSEY FREE3V 



BOO^TOA, MAY i% . 



I OL. 2 . 

THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor >nd Proprietor. 
Boottim, l\forris County, New Jersey. 

TERMS. 
Single copy 25. cenis per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
Hi. copies to one address tor tw o dollars. 
All communications, -must be post paid. 



From the HarbhujuT. 
WHO ARE THE US FID ELS? 

Many professing to be governed by a spirit of toler- 
ation ai.d Christianity, improve every suitable occasion 
in trying to make out that those who adv cute social 
reform oy bringing about 'equitable re at ons ie ween 
man and man, — the individual and s<J©ie.t!y,— capital and 
lam.r, — are iuiviels. — They profess to be lie e n .be 
bible, and to have been sanctified by its truth, and spir 
it,and to pras daily that the "Kingdom ' of God may 
cme, ;:iid God's- will be done on earth as it is done iii 
he.ven," — vet stigmatise those who believe, in the 
practicability of tt is heaven-taught prayer as infidels.' 

They seem to think religon consists more in going to 
nu-fiina on the Sabbath, and giving in their adherence 
to -siablished creeds and forms- of worship, than in o- 
b.-ymg the weightier matters of the law, faith, justice, 
and mercy." IlS'-emsto be apart of their religious 
belief, thai if they take good care of themselves and 
their families, they need have but very little concern 
for the welfare of others— they aTe rrot their "brother's 
k . per." 

G d Requires as to 'love him with all our hearts, and 
•our neigi b rsas ourselves." He tha< refuses to obey 
t!i, re / , iffitiinU in his life, he is the infidel no mat- 
te,- v. ba' be may profess. We have the au'.lority •■{ 
inspiration in -ay-ji g hat he that does not "love his 
bro t.er, whom he-»s se/'n," cannot love "God whom 
he has no> sc«-n.'' — those who profess to love God, but 
give no evidence or lore to their brethren, are liars. 

It seems ;o me that both parties are somewhat out of 
th way: religion neither consists in all love to God, or 
m.n but iii a uni m ot the two. God should be loved 
«<j emely, and our neighbor as ourselves. 
• If We lov»* our neighbor as ourselves, we should nev- 
er i fore him but in all things seek to promote his hap- 
pi.,c-. a ri well h j in<t; we should do something more 
IfaKs merely let hiin /ire, — we should try to help him 
live. 

Yours for all mankind. 
. . D. E. R. 

Haydenvtlle. Feb. 9, 1846. 



mural courage 

"But what is the courage of the battle field comparer! 
with iiiorai •■ouriige of every day life? Stand alone, 
see friend* scowl; hear distrust speak its foul suspicion, 
Watch' enemies' taking advantage of the occasion, luboi 
ing ;o destroy; who would not rather encounter th 
shock of an hundred battle fields, and lead a forlore 
hope ;n -uoh, ;ban bare and brave these things? win 
one is as the sumnv-r breeze on the ocean to winter- 
stormiest blast. Any common spirit may summon 
courage to play the soldier well; use quickly fits him fo 
it. But it requires a man to so^k out his thoughts a- 
he thinks them —lo do — -hen lik<- that stormy blast ii 
wiute r ori old ocean, peace, honor, security, and lit.- 
are threatened to be swept away. 

Yetwho, looking back upeii thepage of history* or 
forward to the hope of the future, would hesitat 
which to choose.— The martyrs — where are they? 



Chronicled nam s in ajl hearts. The patriots who 
died for Liberty, iguoniiniously and on ihe seal 61< .> 
'iow fares it with them! Cherished as earth's honor 1 ' 
-ons. The gor»d — who spoke Ihe truth and sufferer 
lor its sake — where are th y? Like' men they spok 
the truth that was in them. This was their courage. ~ 
If they had been si'ent. if, trembling before tyratnt: 
or mobs, they had feared to tell what they knew , to 
speak what felt, they won Id have lhed and died as, ott - 
■ r men. But they bad the moral c h'ragt to do all this, 
and though they perish d, man was hi ssed throue 
'their suffage, and truth lighted np with new glory and 
power. 

Give us moral Courage before every thing else! 1 
is the only bravery on w hich hnmani'y cotjnt tor an 
real blessing. Give u- moral courage first and last. 

For while it nerves a man for duly, ic roots out of he- 
heart hate and revenge, and all pavsio 1 , maki g bin. 
wise amid danger, ca'm amid excit ment, just amid 
lawlessness, and pure amid corruption. It is the cr v. - 
n ing beauty of manhood." C'tSs T'-te American. 



From tin Indiana Freeman. 

INFIDELITY. . 

False interprerati' ns of the .Bible by its ministers it 
filling the land w ith infid -Is.- - 

There are very many whose -sense of justice revol's 
at the costruction put upon it by the body of clergymei 
and if they are con vb ce'd thai it really sane ions the 
most enormous injustice, they necessarily iapse into in- 
fidelity. It is only by disbelie ring the priests that they 
ca . believe the Bible to be the word of God. They 
cannet believe God desires the welfare ot his creatures 
if sanctions the wrong committed by man upon his fel- 
low man. Great is the responsibility of those who 
make the Bible discreditable in the 1 eyes of good nun. 

In the late controversy between Rev. Mr B anr hsrd 
■md Dr. Rice at Cincinnati, the latter -aid teal inhfidcl- 
ty and abolitionism vtere convertible terms. And in a 
recen uumber of the Congregational Journal the editor 
speaks of iN. P. Rogers as follows: "And vet ibis 
same man was a p.oiessor of reli<rpn til! b turned an 
ultra abolitionist, then a genera! r< form r. tlv n a ndnre- 
sistant, then an infidel." Iftmen on vih.bly arri\ at ii 
delity through ultra abolitionism, reform and no resis 
ance — if to be a christian a man must be pr -si fvefyi 
he must support ihe monstrous syslt m of outrage anq 
plunder which society hits orcein zed, and if he mus 
put away all love for man-— n ,-y choice \-w il 1 .-oon t, 
made. 

Judge Stevens related, at the West field Gonventio 
a conversation that he nad receni _\ In Id with a Virgin 
on the subject of slavery. Alter a pretty long argc 
m nt the Virginian finally saie:'"SiryI know you a, 
mistaken — Ikiiow that Slavery is' not wrong — I law 
h at it is sanctioned by the Bible, tor I have been 
.ember of o church for thirty years, and beard a thou; 
■md ministers preach, and although ' hey preach, d again? 
>vey conceivable sin, none ot thefn eve, hifited - i 
oulding slaves was unchristian." Let thi« man b-'com 
jonvineed in his heart that slavery is a fearful wrong- 
let him believe that the Bible approves of slavery , a ; 1 
ministers to whom he has look; d for instruction and ai 
noiiition have taught— -and w ould he no almosl n -' <- 
arily become an infidel? Where would the blame re 
if this should be so? 

Slavery is not the only wrong the church hesitates 
■ buke, With a most vjrfuous and red-mce'd indign 
dti it grapples unpopular *ins-hj the thidat. bw it 
' o, too apt to cuddle in with popular ortev — or i! it : 
' i -mpls lo c< nsuie it "roars you gently as any suck 
iove." Judge Wv k, a m mber of one of the chtircl 
of this city, in bis speech on the Oregon question, a, 



AO. ui. 



s-. rted that "the p< ople .done have the right to ijdo aad 
command wrong"--arid told those who had scruples a- 
)ou. involving the country in a war that they bettei y Id 
-md obey ttie voice of , he people,' or they would no. Le 
•-elected. A more pernicious maxim never was utt-.r- 
d— more detestable adyice never was eivm. How 
much better than an infidel is the man who utters s> eh 
entjrn.egts? It is not w ondeii'ul tl ai this chnsliort is in 
ivor ot slavery. The majority can iio wrong, he says; 
■ nd where the majority is he will le. His doctrine is 
that it is better to act wickedly than to not since d. 
Will the church of which he is a member reprimand 
'ipr Oh. no. The church is too proud of having a 
?)rjfer of Congress on its roll of saints. ior that. It' the' 
hurch w ere better there would be ft w'< r 'infidVls'. Many 
• "infviels" because ihe church's standard of Christi- 
anity is too low for them. 

These thoughts have been suggested by the follow- 
ing extract of a letter from one of the uue st pHilanthro- 
risis in the St ite : 

"You may rely on the continuance of my feeble ef- 
rts in support ofyour paper. 1 -ay 'feeble because I 
now -ha! my influence is very small, seeing' that ■ am 
ni infid- 1. Nevertheless v bile lam a man, and can 
:'-el as a man,- and can shed a tear as man over the 
rushed and bleeding millions in 'Christian American./ 
1 will do my best to aid in lifting the iron hoof of ti e 
church ofi' the necks of its hap. ess victims. The word 
infid 1 has lost its terror. Indeed, 1 atari proud of that 
appellation w hen set in contrast! to the popular chrisian- 
ty of the day. Light and love will sweep away the 
church and s avery. Yours for the oppressed, 

"Grove Pomeroy." 



F'-om the Cortland True American. 

THE LL 'I V OF SECEDING FROM PRO- 
SLAVERY CHURCHES. 

It is not right to remain a member of a church which 
tolerates siave hokiing, unless it be right to hold com- 
muriion with tuan-stealers. But is there no diflerence 
hetweeh holding slaves and stealing :hem? — notaccor- 
ding 10 Mr. Wes ey, not according to the Bible, for Mr 
f\ esley says, "this equally concerns all" slaveholders, 
seeing u, en-buyers are. i xactly- on a level with men- 
si alers;" and the Bible .-ays, "if ' e be found in Lis 
bands he si. all sureiy be put to death." Here the crime 
. i holding tnose in bondage w t:o were original y stolen, 
is considered a crime ot equal; enormity with thai of 
i s; wfio a< tually stele him — a crime punishable (un- 
"r the law) w itb d» ath. 'Now if the Bible sanctions 
rrien-stearThg, might we not expect that i* would sanc- 
ou" sheep-steal ing, and horse-stealing, and indeed all 
bet ciirres? For probably, there is not a command 
t he decBHOgue, thai is noi transgressed, in the sin of 
laverv. If it be right to retain a conn- ciion w ith a 
•urcb which tolerates slave-holding, then it must fol- 
v that we are at liberty to remain in fellowship with 
other sort of sinners, or wirh persons who commit 
ay other sin, slaver* involves almost every other crime 
If is the embodyment -of tb< most frightful "Crifties 
al fall uiui". the divine law; and it. can be admitted 
: b the ebon h of Christ, with the deep and wide chan- 
is of corruption, which follow i- its Vain, there is no 
i me this side of.be pfT its. If, wbieb can be excluded 
.n. the church of the Lord Jesus, by the laws which 
'•as enacted for its governnfi&at. 
. ibis sin when tdfe'rated in the cUirch does not make 
: ►ssion a duty, no •■.h'T sin, nor all other sins com- 
• ,. .•. can maWe secessidn a'ddty; and we are driven 
on th& f arid! Consequences of being at liberty as 
is'ians, to r. niai'i in, and support a church which 
olenites every sm that has ever been committed in th'is 



fallen and corrupt world. N->v is not this an -mire hedge, or they were members in 1841. I leave the read 
•Jiolition of the church itsolf? When the church spivatL ! e.r to make sufth inferences as he may think proper, 
her fold so wid- as to enclose sinner-, (in this sense,) | The above, however, is quite moderate to many ca- 
•'he loses her identity, and her distinctive charct-ris'ic s-slam -equal ted with my. self in the same section of 
is merged in the common character of the world. It i the country. — In the same rigon where t his corresppnd- 



the toloration of slaveholders in th> church, does not 
make secession a duty, the existence of drunkenness, 
fornication, adult Ty, robbery and theft would not make 
.secession a duty; and yet not a man can be found win- 
dare sav that he would r main in a church after it had 
repeatedlv and public y 'refused to make rules for the 
expulsion of persons notoriously guilty of the latter 
crimes. 

Bv their own decision then, in relatiou to other sins 
are abolitionists b- uml to secede from all pro-slavery 
church s. No. christian can remain in connection 
with a church which tolerates slave-h Iding, only on 
the ground of ignorance, or a love of wrong. The 
sam» principle that equiresus to expei a corrupt indi- 
vidual) must require us to withdraw ourselves from a? 
ussoeiation that is corrupt. Now it is too plain to be 
denied that a majority in several denomination*, do tol- 
erate slavehodcrs in the church- The membars of the 
M. E. church, have no power over the question, as 
they have no voice in making the laws by which they 
arc governed; a: d in many other churches abolitionists 
are the minority; ther- fore not having it in their power 
to separate t.hemslves from the corruptions of slavehol 
ding by expelling the corrupt party, are bound to 
effect such separation by separating themselves from 
the corrupt body. . Jf it be wrong to remain in church 
•'relation with a corrupt individual, (which must be true 
if the church is bound to expel corrupt individuals,) it 
cannot be right to remain in church relation with a 
greater number of individuals that are equally corrupt. 
The duty of expulsion rests upon the obligation to sep- 
arate ourselves from .sinners, and a- this obligation can- 
not b. lessened by increasing the number of the corrupt 
to a maj rity, it follows beyond the power of contradic- 
tion, that when a majority of any re'igious community 
become guilty of what ought to exclude an individual, 
the minoriiy are under obligation to secede.", And as 
slaveholding is a crime for which persons ought to be 
expelled from the christian church, it follows- of cours- 
that all honest abolitionists are bound 1 3 secede from 
their respective churches, if they are connected in any 
way directly or indirectly with slaveholders. To ad 
mit slaveholders to the church is to say that slavehold- 
ing is, in the opinion of 'he church, consistent with tlv 
principles and obligations of Christianity; hence the 
church, that admits slaveholders to her communion, give; 
the. influence of the Christianity which she professes, to 
support slavery. The influence of the whole churcl 
which is bent to the support of slavery, by admittin; 
a'aveholders to her communion, is made u i of the influ- 
ence of each individual who belongs to, and sustains the 
church; therefore every i< dividual that belongs to, an 
supports a church that tolerates slavery, lends his sup 
port to slavery. The Bible strictly forbids such unhoi; 
church relation. God by express command requir 
us to come out from all religious associations which ar 
in fellowship with sinners. 

uuwmt ' 



ent lives, then is a man living by the name of B., who 
was an overseer of one Gen.C.'s plantation previous to 
Florida war. This Mr. B informed me thai during the 
period of four .y^ars that he had charge of the abore 
plan ation, 'he had ki led six of the negroes; and on two 
occasions he had cut the heads ofl'twOj and stuck them 
upon p les in the plantation, to intimedate the rest,'* i 
ha^eseen this same man, who, by the bye, is a mem- 
ber of the church, take a perforated paddle, and apply it 
to his own negroes until the blood and flesh would run 
profus- ly through the holes. 

The cold blooded murders that take place on the 
large plantations are indescribable, and I should hot 
wonder that in the Day of Judgement it will be found 
out that more cruel tragedies ha* e transpared within 
the departments of American Slavery, than in any sys- 
tem oi bloodshed that ever disgr >ced the history of the 
world. I could give you quite a list of d ifferent cir- 
cumstances which I have withheld from publica- 
tion for two considerations: 1st. The pubiic have so 
many similar facts: and 2d. the incredibility of such 
barbarous sacrifices of human life and shedding of blood. 
Yours, Su\, 

WM. H. HOUCK. 



his master and and another Slaveholder. Some one 
the plantation slaves » its called bv name He presed 
l\ matte his appearance near the place of blood; b« 
when he saw the company and chink, with sent oih< 
signs of torture, his heart failed him, and IV- retreat' d am 
sought refuge in a pond...f water that was hard by. BtH 
alas! he was persued by the demons in human shape! 
who commanded him to surr nder and come forth. 

He refused — a musket was sent for, and brought — thi 
poor, trembling slave was then toid that he would b 
called three times, and if he did not come foith, h< 
would be shot dowu. He was called once — twice — 
three times! but refused to yield. His mast r ra-ed hii 
musket— took deliberated i.im— and fired! The poo» 
slave bounded up,' fell back, and sunk to rise no more— 
his blood mixing with the water for several yards a- 
round, causing it to be a crimson color. Blood, blood, 
blood, crieth to God from that pond! 

N. SELBY. 



From the Cadiz Liberty Advocate. 
HOW LONG, OH LORD— HOW LONG? 



Fro n the True W' s'.eyan. 
FROM THE SOUTH — A SLA VE SHOT. 

Dear Brother Lee — The following is an extract fron 
a letter w hich 1 h ve just received from one of my cor 
r 'snondents in the South with wh-m 1 am weli acquai 
ted : 

"I hired ont two of rny negroes to Mr. , and h 

a'iciv.pted to w hip one of them two weeks since. Th 

iiearo rau — Mr. took his gun and shot him; did 

not i£ILL HIM, but lodged between twenty and hir 
.--hats ir. him. The doctor inl'otmes me that there is : 
possibility of his getting we 1. J have be en very muci 
farmed, fearing lest I should lose my property." 

Need I inform you thac both of these persons, 
owner of the negro and the employer, re memb. rs 
he M. E. Church! I' is so! This is true to my knowi 



tl 



Mr. Editor — Much has been said and Written agaiast 
the sum of all villanies. American slavery — enough 
indeed, to convince the world that it is wholly wrong: 
yet the world does not appear tobeconvir-c d; therefore, 
we must continue lo speak and write in view of these 
facts. If you thmk the foilo-- ing will in any degree 
aid in the cause of humanity, you will please give it a 
place in your paper. 

There lives a colored man within the bounds of my 
harge, (Leesburgh) who, acce ding to his free papers, 
is one hundred ai.d fourteen years old. He was a 

^ave until he was seventy years old, at which time he 
was bought by his present wife's father for $400. Du- 
ring his stav in slavery, he was the subject of very cru- 
treatment; be w~s often severely flogged, the truth of 
which Ids back fullv exhibits; it being perfectly callous 
md white from his neck t<j> his he Is. During his ab'-dc 
ti slavery he w-as also the husband of four wives, one 
of whom w as sold with her children to the far South, 

0 more, to return to the embraces of their husband and 
ather. Another died in child-bed from exposure; her 
nl> accommodation bcingr a little straw on the ground 

1 a cold hut.— Another wats whipped in the afternoon— 

i the night was delivered of a child— antl next morning 

ii d, with her chi d also: fchey were shr-uded in som-- 
; nd of clothes, a hole wis dug in the earth, and moth- 
rand child were thrown in together and covered up 
ith as little ceremony as if they were hogs. The 

ourth one was a free woman when be married her. 
,he still lives, enjoying w ith him some of the blessing, 
>f Liberty in Ohio. , 

The above is in part the history of one of the wretch - 
(1 sons of Africa. But can fancy paint or language dc- 
eribe, the seem s of suffering he had to endure in the 
apse of seventy years of cruel bondage? Ah, n<>— i 
an't'be told! But will not God, visit for these thing.,' 
Vill noi His soul be avenged oe the nation that docs 
-,ich tlii gs as abov.- 7 Yes, the scathing judgements 
f Almighty God will fall upon the perpetrators of such 
■ liisb d; * its! 

The man bote alhuded to, relates the following: 
H- being what is senet*lly termed a house servant 
ad frequent y to prepare what is called milk-toddy, or 
nogg, for whipping occasions. One morning he 
, as cohed upon to prepare some drink, and to bring it. 
it ft: Stand, no ti"ces«ary vessels, to the shade of a 
large oak. He did as he was hid, and found in the sh»d. 



From the Newark Sentinel. 

Truly this is an age of titles, honorary degrees awH 
wonders! What a remarkable age n isi How prolilid 
of great men! Now-a-days every third man almost we 
meet is some titled dignitary, or other. } ou iuquire 
who such a one is that with a swaggering air brushes by 
and you w ill be told thai it is a Dr. or a Prof. ssor. 

Formerly, a man to become a Doctor or a Professor,, 
needed to exercise untiring ding, nee und dt votion to 
study for many long years, but these' titles in. our day 
are attained at a leap by the commonest and m st vulgar 
capacities. Ignorance and enron.eiv are the princi- 
pal requisites, to which may be added a certain amount 
of gas, and gammon, and then a man is amply furnished 
to set up for a Professor or a Let t or. Such uua lo- 
cations the puublic it would seem are ever ready to al- 
low. What matters it that these titles ar° self-assumedj 
the vox popnH, which is the roi Dei, only adopts and 
sanctious them. 

Some of these arc fixed in some Iqeality, others are 
itinerant all o ver the country. It is duly announced by 
tumid ad vertisements in the new spapers, or placarded 

on every lamp-post, that Professor lectin et "ii 

animal magnetism; that Dr. ^-treats c> csumption 

— gives an eternal 



that cures in all cases; that Dr.— 
quietus to the tooth ache without cansing any pain; 

that Dr. eradicates cancer, withont the aid of 

knife or caustic, and so "n to the end of the chapter. 
When, after all, yon will find that these most learned 
Pnfessors, Doctors, &c, have no real w orth, and for 
want of it, prop up their names by borrow ing titles 
which belong only to the wise and good These are 
the men the public especiaiiy delight to honor, 
;o patronize, and support. Shams, quackeries, and 
falsities of every kind cert » inly find w end.-rfu favor and 
ready currency among the people of this generation. 
Brass is decidedly better than brains — a talent for hwm- 
buggery is by far the most pi oductive of a»y in the 
market. E. T. 



PROGRESS. — Tin Boston S,m announced on fast 
day, that "Rev. Mr. .Huntington will pr< ach on tlm 
subject of slavery at his church to-day. Rev. Dr. 
Beecher w ill preach on the same subject at the Salem 
street church." Ii is bul a few > ears since, when that 
faithful and devoted friend of the slave, Samuel J. Mav 
■ nade some applications of the principles of Christianity 
o slavery in a Boston church, a Inrgfi part of the audi- 
ence instantly left the house. It seems that the peo-r 
;jle can bear now to hear something of the matter 
hough, probably, neither Mr. Huntington nor Dr.- 
•irecher preached any thing that would offend anybody 
by its severe truth. ISever mind; like, the wealher-ceck 
in their sti epics they show which way the wind blow** 
Thi y are veering round t<> fair veaiher point. The* 
will both be good Abolitionists when .hey can. help it. 
•'Wait a little longer." Ai'ti Slavery Sutnttard. 



^onH fidget 



the Meetiti 



HIStOWtl. 



THE NET JEESEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, MAY 14, 1846. 



IT-arts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanitv withers. Keep. 



{jz^THE STATE MEETING. — This meeting is to 
be held, as will be seen by a notice in another column 
at Morristown. A typographical error was made in 
the notice as published in our last. Instead of being on 
Tuesday the 88th ; . of May, it should have been Thurs- 
day 'He 28th. of May, as it is now corrected. 

Will not (he friends of the cause exert themselves to 
give publicity to this meeting, and come up to it as if 
the* = r he arts wi re in it. Morristown is easy of access 
by Rail Road from Newark, the Cars rut twice daily, 
between thes> places, and stages from other parts of the 
S'aie will accommodate those who are not near the 
Rai 1 Road and have not conveyances of their own. 
Wp hope to see a good representation from Allamu- 
• chy, Deckertown. West MiliWd and other p laces in the 
IS" rlh Western part of the State at this Meeting. It 
will do our hearts good to m< et some of our West Jer-j 
se-y friends at that lime, and if they can bring along 
some of the talented speakers from- Philadelphia, it will 
be. so much the better. If they can. do this, iet them 
give u& information in time to make arrangements for 
th m. The Committee wil' endeavor to owJce such 
preparations as will give interest to the meeting and 
sa Uiaction to those friends v ho attend. 

Th-" Slave Case uow pending in our Courts, involving 
the Constitutionality of slavery in this State, will come 
up for further consideration at themeetin; among other 
things, and wc hope those members of the committee 
appointed to collect funds for c nducting that suit who 
haw not reported to Messrs. Middleton and Plumly, 
v. II not fail to renort at this meeting. It will be a 
disgrace to the people in this State to iet this case fall 
for the want of a little mon-y. We must leave i' to the 
friends in New Jersey to say whe her w> shall have an 
int. rn-sung and profitable meeting or not. What say 
vou? 



For the New Jersey Fro^maft. 
INDIVIDUAL EFFORT. 
At the commencement of a now enterprise there i. 
much excitement, and every one eagerly rushes «o a. 
his force to the gathered stream. After a little tim \ 
either beceuse Immediate success does not ap ear, • 
novelty no lo.igen 'tracts, coolness and i. ,i;t. ntsi..n sui 
ceed. "What is the use in m) going: I, men; 
one, and what is one? 

Now we wish to impress, not upon all, hut upon • v 
ery one, that every good work always has been, 
and ever will becjone by the ones, the all is constituted 
and made up of the ones. You, — y< u who think ypui 
s< If the humhle and unimportnn! one, v ho may be Id 
out without anv damage to the e :i usc. rt'tisi learn to es- 
I imate things differently and correctly Yen mast lea :i 
that your vote, v our attendance a' tin rnec\ ng \ du\ 
countenance and life are esse n'.ia! to 'he success of th 
cause. The enemies of huma redemption sui.ei no 
inactivity to master them; wh^ then should its ftlend 
be idie? You kobw tint how weii a steadv adhteia.a* 
to principle helps to cany the point, or you < ou.d nevei 
plead thishumilit andHnsignfrficance. No more (hen 
worthy reader, suffer such a plea toko p vou back. 
The lash is alwavs falling on the oppressed; wil' \oo 
not be as constant in effort for his release? WrfiWg is 1 
perpetually busy; shall not rtyht then, as frequenrlv ti id 
etnpioyn»«-nt. Idleness is a great wrong. There is n< 
rest for man b. i-H-activiiy, an activity that has restin it. 
as the leaven is in the lump. Idle hands are the e'.evil'- 
tools, and miser 1 is the coin in w hich he pays his work 
men. There is much, there is an endless work for all 
good souls in the holy cause. L. 



QUARTERLY 
MEETING. 

The Qarterly Meeting of the New Jersey Anti Sia- 
■ery Society will he held at Morristown on Thursday 
iSlft of May nex.t. Further particulars' wil! Be given 
i Lira*, as to the Hour, Speakers &c. 



April 20 1846. 



A. H. Freeman Sec. 



( Wl t -f ++H-H-H+- 



From the Libertv Standard. 



$tS-CHARLES T. TORRE Y. — We have hoped 
that this persecuted man was not as sick as has been 
represent, but we are compelled to believe that it is 
ail true, and that lie has hut a short time to live. The 
Executive of Maryland during his sickness has refused 
to listen to the many h -art-stirring appeals which have 
be n made by his wife and others for pardon, until his 
recovery is past all possibility under any circumstances; 
and now when his coffin is in readiness to carry his re- 
nuins to his friends, (so near gone is he that it is not, 
possible to move him alive, )they are willing to pardon 
him upon condition that his friends will pay for some 
slaves that have run away. Verily, meanness and bar- 
barism »o hand in hand among slaveholders. 

If the martyrdom of this excellent and devoted man 
does not ar use the energies of this nation, and ca!l forth 
a spirit that will go through the land coquering and to 
conpuer, we shnll be inclined to believe that nothing 
short of God's awful vengeance will cleanse and purity 
it fr im these soul-sick.-ning abominations. 

ftr< .THE UNION MISSIONARY.— This 'monthly 
paper published at No. 5 Spruce Street N. Y., is the 
Organ of the Urion Missionary Society, a Society 
that refuses donations from Slaveholders or to employ 
Slaveholders in missionary operations It is an ex- 
ceedingly interesting paper, fi led with interesting ac- 
counts of the. free missionary operations in Canada, Af- 
rica. Sandwich Islands &c. All those who have any 
int. r< st in such missions, will leel richly rewarded by 
patronizi: g that paper. 

Lewis Tappan is Treasurer of the U. M.Sorietv and In the days of Robt. Fulton the house of Represen 
will be happ; to receive douati< ns of any S'.rt, except j talipes was refused him for the - purpose of a Lecture oi 



Good Feelings. — We knew a blunt old fellow in the 
State of Maine who sometimes hits the nail on the 
head more pat than the philosophers. He once heard 
a man much prai«e.d for his "aood feelings." Every- 
body joined aed said the man was possessed of exelknt 
feelings. 

''What ha« he done?" asked our old genius." 
"Oh in everything he is a man of fine, benevolent 
teclings," was the reply. 

"What has he done?" cried the old fellow again. 
By this time; the c mpany thought - it necessary to 
show soe.e of their fav'uite's doings. They began to 
cast about in th' ir minds, but the old man s ill shouted, 
What has he done?" They owned that could not name 
anything in particular. 

"Yet, answered the cynic; "you say that the man 
has good feelings — fine feelings — benevolent feelings. 
Nov. , gentleman let me tell you that theie are t eoph 
in 'his world who get a good name simply on accoun- 
of there feelings. You can't tell one gt ner ns action 
t at they have ever performed in their :ives but the} 
can look a d talk most benevolently. I keow a man in 
this town that vou would call a surly, rough, and una- 
mie.ble man, and yet he has done more acts of kind 
ness in the country than a'l of vou put together. Yo 
may judge people's actions by their feelings, but I judg 
people's feelings by their actions. 



Capital Punishments. — The number of crimes one/ 
punished with death in England, was about 'Ifo hi nd 
red; it is now reduced to thirteen: and a motion ba 
been made in Parliament for the entire abolition of th 
deith penlty; and to confine executions hereafter to th 
jailyard while they exist. O-car, King of Swede: 
has produced a work on 'Punishments and prisons 
filled with important statities. Sijj. tfs Lib. 



++T-H-+ 



No flocks that range the failcv free, 

Toslaughter I condemn, 
Taught by the pi wrr that pities me, 

I learn to pity them Goldshdlk 



iucb. as is wrung from the unpaid toil of the Slave. 



Ru am i\u\)gtion because it w as a visionary scheme. 



The Webster Bet — The Forgery. 

Daniel Mann has a veiy permanent article in the Lib- 
rritor on the character of the Whig party. After tra- 
cing its conduct respecting the great Forgery to the. 
dose of the Presidential election, he adds: 

"Thus far, indeed, the Whigs had not so tar indenti- 
iied themselves a party w ith the forgery, that they 
could not, by pleading igncn-nce and making retrae- 
ion, as public as their accusation, have w ashed them* 
Ives from it. Instead of this, they have (with few ex- 
ceptions,) been siient, or » vaded the matter, with the 
mfca est excuses. Mr. Webster, indeed, with a man- 
liness ■which shows him not to be ail Whig, retracted 
he accusation, and paid freely the £200 whieh he had 
batted upon its truth. But on the other -hp rid, Judge 
Hiss 1, genuhv Whig, and candidate for Governor in 
! 'nn'.eeticut, lately re-uttered the lie in pnblic, and 
*b* n oalled upon by Mr. Birney to retract it, and furn- 
i hed with the documen sto prove its falsity, refused to 
do so. In a word, the Whig party, by its presses and 
public men, have identified themselves with the forgery, 
and incorporated it as a Whig palicy,' — IAb. Standard 
■ t - f ' l ' tfrl i k i ff t*hv «- ! 

Connecticut. 

According to the Hartford Times, returns from all 

the towns hut sev< n,show the following aggregates on 
the Governor's vote. 

1&46'. 1845. 
Bissel. Toucey. Gillette. Ba!d. Toucey. Gillette 
25,344 24,586 17»0 2^,508 26,258 2,114 

The same paper sums up the House of Representa- 
tives as follows: — Democrats, H7; Whigs. 76; Liberty 1; 
no choice, 24. It also ciaims 11 of the 21 Senators. 

The Whig loss is 6 per cent., Democratic gaiu 3 per 
cent. , Liberty r ain 4 per cent.. 

RHODE ISLAND 
The vote of the People for Governor, is as follows: 
, Dirnan. Jackson. Harris. 

7469 74;. 7 '160 

Diman w as the Law and Order candidate, Jackson 
:he Liberation, and Han is, the Liberty candidate. A 
Whig paper remarks: 

"Fr m this tab-e it will be seen that the votes thrown 
nay by the Abolitionists have defeated ar election of 
Governor by the peopl. ." 

Thus it a ways- is: 'hen the Whigs fail, the Liberty 
Tien "throw away" their votes. When *he Whigs suc- 
ceed, the Lib rty men are spoken of affectionately, as 
the allies. ,, In New Hampshire, they are wise men; is 
• {.iiode Island, they are fools! 

$5? The New J.irsev Annual Conference, of the 
"vfeibodist Episcopal Church Mas held in Newark a- 

ut the last of A ril. A detfieabe of 448 members is 
.eported uithin the bouiie's of the Conference tie last 
vear. Late. ' Statistics! and 6ther doings, of the M. E. 
I hurch show most conclusivly that it is not what it 
was once. 

{(<J-Itis jsaiAthat the peop'eof England Ireland and 
Scotland pay $40 000,000 annually fi'»r t. bacco!!^ 



"You are from thecounli) , are you not sir?*' said e 
mdy clerk in a hook sto e, to a homel y dressed t*ua- 
i r who had given him some trouble. 

"Yes." 

"Well, here's an essay on the rearing of calves." 

ft That, " savs Ami nidab, agi he turned to leave the 
store, "thee had better pfctsent totixy mother!" — West- 
ern Citizen. . 



POET'S CORNER. 



[From the Pledge and Standard.] 

of a certain Nome in me /read-mill of a 
certain Beer-brett in<*. EMabLisluncnt. 
. i \ i t i . +*■-+*-+ 
From day to day I tread this wheel, 
And pud with all my might- 
While from my h ad to hoot's, I feel 
The work m> spirits blight. 

Would I could travel in the street. 
Or run, as others, round — 
Or that my aching, swollen feet, 
Might press the cooling grou d. 

But uplift here, I'm doomed to go 
Upon this cursed stri ■ g -- 
To rack good wheat for human woe, 
And make grim devils sing. 

I hear the organ cogs I piay, 
And Spirits of the choir — 
And often to myself, I say 
Tour lay is "(jm nchless fire." 

T" a sick at heart, 1 slark my pace—' 
Bu.i joon the Leader serf am*-— 
"Come op you devil" give to giace 
Yoursaim-like, idle dreams. 

Tis false! a devil I am not, 
I have no heart of steel — 
I only turn — as I would not — 
A sort of devil's wheel. 

Home as I am and called a thing, 
Of monied worth alone — 
Your work makes every hair a sting. 
A blade of everv bone. 

1'de rather on my naked back, 

Trod death without a pad — 

Than iS.od's good g'-ain for brewers crack, 

Nor shou d I feel so bad— 

To have my cousins "Bob" and "bill," 
' And liars s in his place, 

Gail the "a beer-hrew]ng mill— 
O. what a deep disgrace! 

So I'll kick out," and off, away — 
Whiffle-ttee, traces, door? 
Stand off! — my heels now briskly play, 
As you never saw before. 

"Who ! who ! Charley, who ' who ! ! I say"- 
Ah, Sir! why den'tyou yell, 
"Go on ou d vil<"'— Su r e y >u may, 
And oid yourself wh-re devil 's dwell. 
Provid-iiee. B. 



Temperance Record. 

From the Is.. Y. Daily Tiibune. 
I'm Discouraged. — Says a hard-working man to h- 
neighbor, "'/ m X)ls£Ouru i} cd\ 1 cannot get along be 
cause it cost me. so much to live. Il is very discourag 
eg when a num. works day and night and wears his fing- 
ers to stumps, that he cai.noiget ahead a little." 

The following verbatim extract frona the account oi 
his -retail grocery nv.y throw some light on the poor 
• an's path, and oiiierk' of ihe same class, "who are giv 
nig 10 complaining: •• •. • 

day 11 To I doz-tggs . . . .12 1-2 

13 To pi beer 4c, <ri!l gin 4c gin 4c . . 12' 1-2 

" " To beer 2c, glass 3c, cash lent 25c . 30 

" 14 glass 2c. pt beer 8c,' pt beer Sc, '.' 49 

u" it " a g^jjg 3Cj g[ a . K? 3c . . . . 6 

:' 15 " l ptbeer4c, 1 pt b er 4c. . . 8 
" 16 "breud Sc., beer 4c . .13 
,<' . ,« "-pi beer 4c .. . '„• . ■ • 4 

" 17 ." loaf b^read -"-c, pt beer 4c, K2 lb butter 10 19 
« « " 1 gill gi ■ 4c, 1 pi beer 4c . . .'. .8 
" 18 " i pt beer 4c,.l gill giri 4c. . . . ,8 

-. *Total . , $1 50 

*Here is a ginasid be r account. for one Weak amoun- 
ting to one-six::* of" h>t the man probably earned, and 
which at the same rate, vooUl umouu' to forty dollars 

a year, "a rt si u- ii nt ! o pay .he-rent of a comfortable 
teheru n for ■>. sman i] ., . T! . '••••ensed liquor gro- 
ceries of the |aod are hetclijii ret ion ot the laboring clas- 
ses — with&:.t the presence a rong drink they would 
be blessings, and the keepers of them would find theii 
saes greatly mircooed in all useful and. necessary arti- 
cles. . . P- 



Public vs. Sec ret Associations'.'— -A sharp discus- 

• on recently took place in Foxboro' Mass. on the sub- 
; ct of secret societies, occasioned by the organization in 
.lat^ place of an Odd Fellows Lov'ge — The de*cussion 
e-sulted in the formation of a new order called the 'Fox- 
•oro'Pro Bono Publico Family" This assosiation has 
no secret!, and admits ladies and gentlemen to member- 
ship, (provided they do. not belong to any secret soci- 
e'y,) on their paying the former 75 cents,and the latter 

'1,50 per year. 1 hey already number 300 members. 
Article second of their constitution, says: 
"The object of this association shall be the relief of 

• he destitute, att> ntion and kindness to the sick, the 
iriendless, and the su fie ring poor, residents in the town 
of F xboro,' ezcept such as are already provided f. r by 
:heir connection with those societies whose affiirs are 
conducted with secrecy, and, whose internal organiza- 
tion and policy are not open to the inspection' of the 
public." .' .. ; - 

The rivalry of these two associations, says a letter 
-vriter from Foxboro', will secure for a while, relief to 
.he poor, the sick, and the afflicted.—- An, hirst Eipn sx. 

{jc^p American wheat is admitted into Canada duty 

free. ■' "' ' .' ■ \ 



The American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
has made preparations to do a good work for liberty 
the comming year. 

The Rev. A. A. Phelps of Boston is engaged as a- 
gent and Editor of the Anti Slavery Reporter. Trie 
Reporter is an excellent paper published monthly at 
118 Nassau street NV Y.' at $ 0,50 a year for a single 
copy. 5 copies to one address for $ 2,00 10 copies $ 
3,n0. and 50 copias for $ 12,50. subcriptions will be 
ec.eived at this office. '. .■•• - 



OUTLAWED KG \ 1 N . — A Poo^hkeepsie rum sel- 
ler, named. Joseph liiackburn, hav ng brought a libel 
sui: agfitusi John Ml. Goring, the case was tri< d in the 
Su^jrsnia Court i.ast wei k bViore Judge Ruggles. 

Ths! acti, n wi.s brought for 'he following assertiors 
made in reterewe ;«» he pain.' ill' and three other tavern 
ke- p» rs, in the i^oothei n pait oi the. town of Poughkeep- 
sie, viz: 'hat their taverns Were "d< rrs of pollution," & 
th y "rumtn.ies," ihat "they kept pauper mauufactories 
in full bias;. v\h re hvinian beings were turn- d into 
,som.'thiti _ vorse than brufes.' 1 and "that it- was really 
t h aft renriing to see wives going after their poor, lost 
hush tincTs- 10 these sli'ilgnter houses and forced t«» he»r 
iheceaise, liba'd- jest arid horrid lauguage usually made 
use of at these places. .' ' * . 

iJ^The-e ar>- said to be thirty thousand dol'ar* pet 

day $pent in the City ol /v'jw "v*«>rk for intoxicating li- 
piois. Tins amounts to more than ten millions of 
A6 lars a \ ear. 



4 



4 



■8 



ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS, The following 
tracts ar -on hand and for saie at thispmce, by the Lib 
erty Association. 

Condition of Living. 

The cause of Hard times 

Influence of Slave power 

One more app -al to Christians & Churcht s. 

Bible Politics. 

Jewish Serv i ude. 

Smith is. darks in, 

P :rsons he/d to service. 

Loyal National 11 peal Association, 

Pu ies and Dignities ot American Freemen. 

Ill Treatment of People of-Volor in the LI. S.. 

Tjstim.orry of a IteulHern Witness. C. M. Ciaj 
•"The lawlessness 'of 'si a very . 

Poems on Slavery by J.ongfellow. 

The Missouri Compromise. 

Smiths Constitutional Argument. 

Two cents Postage 
\ddress to the People ot Kentucky by C. M. Clay 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOK STORE. 

Myron Finch and Thomas A. Weed have opened an 
office for the sale of Anti Slavery .Books, Pamphlets 
Tracts &c- at 118 Nassau Street, New York, Let them 
be well patronized. 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protectant 
i hurch. It should be read by every body. 

For sale at this office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH \C- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be r*-ad by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. '•' 



A - t-ni. n nt surgeon has lodged' at Bait's Bank, 
Dublin, a'^eaied -nveioqe con- a tiling a hundred pound 
no •' w hich he proposes to bestow, on any mesmerist 
> ;io ca i telj th - number of it by clairvoyance!- The 
oepositor is quite sure of not losing his money. 

A Glorious Tviumph. 

Michigan has the honor of being the first State to a- 
qlish Capital I'Uhisrini-ni. The News w ill be fouinl 
ii a 'letter 'from' our correspondent, on the First Page. 
'VVe shal now have en opertuni y to test by actua 
-.pV-riment sonie of the assumption of the friends of 
he Ganows. See «h iher the r pr- dictions are veri 
(i b an increase of the crim'ts hitherto punished Uj 
;eath- We awaii the result with p- rfect conftdeiice i 
■ wisdom of a jnesure which we hope will be speedily 
lopfed b) several odier States. Above all,. we pra. 
Ij L gisiature logive the People of the State an op- 
^ortUnify w decid whether the Gallows shall any long- 
be stui'-red to do its I) oo ly work in our midst.- Tnb. 

. jr»A committee of tli •' P Minsyl v nia Legislaturehas 
i ported a lial tor lab abolition of capinl piiuishmems. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the 0*licepf 
the Freeman, Booiiton, N. J 



LIBERTY MLYSTREL. 

A fftw copies of Cl.irk's Libeity M'nsire) a>e for 
-a'e at jhi* otfi e. 

This i? sup 1 i ior to any thing of the kind we h ive 
»*en and sh.uid be.iutne possession of. every o-.e. 'ba.t 
i.,ve's L'ood omsi^ and loves to make a good u->e of it.. 
P ice, 44 cents. 



li tunlon Washington Temperance B //< r- 
•ttent Society,- — meets every Muiula) cve- 
iiiijr in the Free Cliurch. D .(J. iXoifis, 
President, Marcus blvarta Secretary. 

Boonton Liberty Association, — rurcls the 
first Friday eveninir of every iiionl'' - 
M. Evarts, President, C. B. Nonis. Sec 

"\t-C tUJ X' tt%.- e.' u>iS» tMai i. <•-,, ^j.Hrf.«|m -r'i'.m 



\~9T 






TTHttf 




\ OL. 



BOONTOjY, JUNE 14, 1*46. 



NO. 



HE FREEMAN 



WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris Count;/, JS'cw Jersey. 



TERMS. 
Sinai'!? copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
lt>. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be' post paid. 



For the Fr eeman. 
THE UNITF OF REFORM. 

A SHORT FRIENDLY DIALOGUE BETWEEN CONSERVA- 
TOR and Reformer. .. 

Conservator. — Ah is grist that,,;- comes to you* mill? 
Reformer. — Certainly. — 
Cor.. — First you speak up for abolition: then comes 
Temperance, then Peace, then Legal Reform, next, I 
suppose, Diet, and then^Marriage. 

Ref. — Why not? As alt kinds of grain grow on good 
soil, so ad kinds of reform find their source in a good 
soul. 

Con. — I declare you won't let us smoke a pipe nor 
«at our pork in comfort. 

Ref. — The unity of the sciences, the unity of the arts 
the unity of religion, and varions other unities have been 
spoken of, even the unity of disease: why not then the 
unitv of reform? 

Cor.. — Ah! that is what I expected. Vou will nev- 
«r he done. We might as well keep where we are as 
make ali this fuss; for when you- have carried one point 
•then you will bother us with another. You have more 
'zeal than discretion, I fear. 

Ref. — I might confess that without any disgrace or 
scegret. For as yew say, I have a notion that human im- 
provement has no bounds we can yet see. Human 
■degradation and error seem to be almost boundless, and 
at least we must travel back out of them. 

$ Con. — There I agree with you; vice and iniquity ar 
bpund. but what can man do? 

R'J. — Much, the right way as lie has the, wrong. 
At !■ as', tie canjeease the wrong. I would have you 
take courage, and yield yourself up to hopeful feelings 
that, much happiness is in store for you. And the hap- 
piness not orily augments in quantity, but becomes more 
intense in Quality, the higher we ascend in reform. 
Most likely the origin of wrong is one, and therefore a 
unity of right may be conceived. 

Con. — So you think that is sufficient reason for dan- 
cing me round to ev. ry point ot the reformatory com- 
pass with your n. w-fa gled schemes. 

Ref. — Undoubtedly it is a fact that the mind which 
has arri t d at the perception of the necessity of one re- 
form soon comes to see the necessity and the beauty of 
another. Who that was once a swearing drunkard, now 
thai he his left off his drunkenness, does not fc 1 that 
.swearing 1.9 a vile custom? Vices go in company, 
"why not virtues? I know it is the. fashion among those 
who want to lag behind in oid corrupt habits, to scoff 
and sneer at any on who is active in trying to mend 
matters. But I feel ne necessjy fir taking these re- 
marks in the hostile aspect, j d .Let us learn that this . 
.... . „. c , I Signal of Libert ii 

is high praiscvfor our- caus<*. . It affirms tor us that J J 

w.> have discovered' the source, <he foundation of wiring, j 
arid that we do not intend to- ■bb idle, until this foul j 
spring is dried up", and the pun: fountain of living wa- ' . 
ters flows in its stead. L. 



all c.^ses of human woe, wretchedness and guilt, no mat- 
ter how degraded and vile may be the suiierer. Not 
only the s'ave, but the drunkard the felon and the fe- 
male outcast receive comtniseraup i a .id r gard. and in 
many places efficient agencies are at work for their res- 
toration to respectability and virtue. The name of 
Howard has become known through the civilized world 
for his philanthropic exertions in Euro;>e. In Boston 
t'tiere is another man of similar stamp, although acting 
in an humble place. — His name is John Augustus 
His fame is not et as widely diffused as that of How- 
ard, but he has obtained quit** a notoriety in the criminal 
court of that city b bailing offenders. We find the fo 
lowing in a letterto !hf Massachusetts Legislative Tern 
perance society calling their attention tc the necessity of 
establishing a temporary home for persons discharges 
from the House of Correction. 

At present a poor unfortunate woman of intemperab 
habits is taken from her family, and sent to the house of 
correction & bet" resheeom. s »u- herramily is scattered, 
and she knows not where to find her friends, nr perhaps 
her children. She has no where to lay her head unless 
she seeks shelter in some den or some back lane atiou. 
Ann street. ^TJaere slie ge's drunk and gets sent back 
to the house of correction perhaps in two or three da\* 
and it is the same with the men. Eight tenths of ad 
that go to the house of correction are. for drunkenness. 
As soon as my attention was calico to thesubjeet • hich 
was by accident; I though 1 wtould try an experiment by 
standing bail lot a man who was found guilty of being a 
common drunkard. I w as in court , and stepped up to 
him and asked if he would sign the pledge if 1 w uld get, 
his sentence put off for a fortriie I and stand his bail in 
order togive'hima chance to try 10 do better. He Agreed 
to do so — kept the pledge aed b- came a better man. Ai 
file end of the fortnight ho was let off upon the payment 
of a small fine. I continue this p^rctice and the result 
is as follows. 

From January 1st, 1S42, to January 1st 8146, 1 bailed 
three hundred persons brought up as common drunkards 
male and female. Of this number moie than two hund- 
red have done well. The ba ance might have beet; 
saved if there had been a place for them to stop 
a few davs, to recover from the effects of rum 
and wait for employment. I do not know how many 
of them fell back, because J lost the track of them. 
I have heard that some are doing well in 
other places. I have also been bail in cases or 
simple drunkenness and other petty offences, to the 
number of 100 — making inail 500 instances. Thevvho'e 
sum for which I have been bait is $25,000 and have only 
suffered one forfeiture, which was for $100 . < tf th 
300 common drunkards whom I bailed, 275 were, aft* ; 
signing the pledge and being under probation a week 01 
two discharged upon paying a fine of one cent, and cos. 
about $4 in each cas-- — making in all $1100 paid iuto 
the treasury of the Count} or Stajte. If they had heen 
sent to the h-use of cor' etion. nothing would have been 
paid on their account, and the oncers would have "her, 
-■aid fees for carrying them over. By my pian ne ne 
has been both paid and sared to the state, unless thi y 
make a profit 1 n the ; abor of such convicts in the hous 
of correction — a fact which 1 have not yet learnt." 



prospect of war, enlisting our pockets and our prfaV 
die inherent sense of right has grown stronger in pubfle 
discussion, and the principle of love towards all man- 
kind is better understood. 

That men with the words of peace so frequently. So 
constantly on their iips, should have been so many cen- 
turies learning to practice their doctrines, is a curionr, 
and deplorable fact.. But the sunshine has at length 
broken through the cloud, and the bow of hope ya ill 
soon become the Ararat of certainty. 

Why should we feel graiifi d on this pogresS? la 
there much harm in allowing silly people, who f r ' 
hey are good for nothing better, to stand up and he sh* t 
at- for a shilling a day? Does it not rid the nations of 
ihe dross and rubbi-h of humanity, and leave wider 
ipa.ee for the thoughtful and superior? JNot a few still 
lute.rtain sentiments of this kind. But they are among 
the most mistaken of the human race. It is an m- 
ense wrong done to the peaceful and well disposed that 
Itty man in eny part of the globe, however distant, 
should so degrade and a! ase himself and his brethren as 
r o devote himself to war. No triumphs of arms can 
ver compensate the moral loss consequent on war, and 
an assent to its principles. Considered in itself alone 
this extension of the Peace Principle is a bright spot in 
the horizon, which in its consequences is still more 
promising of the highest good. It is not possible that 
nations can exhibit the peace spirit to nations, without 
men acting out the peace spirit to men. If the sword 
is 'to rust, and the forf is to crumble away, what will 
become of the gallows, the manacles, and the lash? If 
the citizen of a distant nation, « orsbipper in a different 
religion, born of another race and coior, speaking a 
different tongue, educated under opposite laws, ignorant, 
rude, hostile, is to be treated as a brother, and as a hu- 
man soul; how can such love be denied to our, native 
brethren, be their cenduct, their col r, or their calling 
what it ma-? It cannot be. When «e bury the toma- 
hawk; the gallows, the cat, and the slave code must he 
thrown into the same grave. And the sooner we attend 
the funeral, the more shall gladmss swell our hearts. 

Hail then to national peace and its consequences! 
Peace abroad, a .d peace at home; peace on the ocean 
and peace on land; peace in the fie'd, 1 eace in the house; 
peace in the Legislatures) in the Church, in fne "facto- 
ry. Peace to the evil doer, to the insane and the mis- 
! aken. Let him only who is. free from error, void cf 
otien.ee, without sin, throw the first stone. ' L. 



For tire -Freeman. 



KINDNESS TO THE GUILTY. 

It is gratifying to the philanthropist to find that the 
principles of the Gospel are beginninsr to be applied to 



The progress of IhePEACE PRINCIPLE manifesto, 
'by both press and pulpit as organs pi the public sen., 
nient, is one of the cheering signs of our age. No; 
withstanding the leading ch bat s of .he National Con 
gross this year have been, ou a sutlject involving the 



We give the following extract irem Mr. bidding's 
speech in Congress on our affairs uith Mexico. At er 
showing beyond dispute that Gen. Taylor and all his 
trees are on Mexican Territory, therefore- must be the 
aggressors, he goes on as follows on the probable con- 
s qurnccs of this unrighteous crusade against human 
oberty. 

"This war, ; apprehend, will prove 110 child's play. g 
I entertain but little apprehension from pitch ci Lat.i- s. ,1 
Indeed, 1 doubt wi.. her such a batth will ever be 
fought. It wilt be a kind bf guerrt'la v\ aru.ro. pur army 
v. it. seldom see their en+'mies, who will hungjretout d 
iur camps, and destroy our men detail, as oppoi.uniiy 

hall offer. But the pestilence of she c in.ate_is to be 
;'ur most deadly foe. Send your fifty thousand, v lun- 
•rs to the Rio Grande, and the deadly miasma will as- 
fciil them, will waste iheir energies. The yellow fever 
• nd its concomitant diseases will do their work of death. 

'our troops will fall before an unseen pow r-and their 
Pones will whiten upon those distant prairies, and the 
heart < f many a wife & many an orphan (yltHMeed ere 

.Texico will submit to our arms. Sir, no man regards ^ 
mis war as just. We know, the country knows, and the 
fiivilized world are conscious thai it has J'sultcd frx.m 
a desire to extend and sustain an instittntoh on winch 



iht) curse *phe Almichiy most visibly resis. 



Blexii c 




■> Ml.*.'. .-■ A.^ I*. _■ ; ,v.r, 



S»m'sssIiU'i "i"* '^^Hfe 



ST 3 



CORNER. 



For Thr> Freeman. 
ODE FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY 1846. 

Hark! hark! from the mountain* a merry song, 

Loud, louder it swells it pours along, 
It rouses the brave, and it fires the free, 
And they join in the glorious jubilee ! 

To day, they remember a rations' birth ! 
Defiance, a strife, and a teeming earth! 
And the work whs done! and the Eagle rose 
In triniaph o'er liberty's fallen foes. 

Bright legions appear, and their hearts are one, 
Tc honor the deeds that their Sires have done: 
And the veteran pr.-udly uncoveres his scars. 
To greet his old banner cf stripes and stars. 

An anthem of joy,'and a martial strain, 
Bursts loud on the e«r, "0,ce,er again 
Snail a tyrants voice, or a tyrant hand, 
Be heard, or ielt in our happy land. 

Yot hold! th.:re'f » sound from a lonely glen, 
A sound like die clanking of fettered men! 
Commingled with sighs, that a thought impr.rt, 
* . Of a -wounded pride, and a broken hi art/" 

And arc there yet hearts, on this festal day ? 
That will not be happy, that cannot be gay? 
s Who know not the joys that enrapture the free, 
That share not the prize of their chivalry/ 

Ah yes, there are those who nre not unbound, 
Who may not respond to the joyous sound, 
That bids to the Nation '* Jubilee, 
There's Freedom, Poor Negro, but not for thee/ 

So he hides him away in his lonely glen, 
For he may not bese?n among whiter men, 
There he lifts his chains and he drops a t- ar, 
And he heaves a sigh that his God will hear/ 

Oh/ hearts that can feel another's wo<\' 
OK' kaHs that can say to the captive, "go;'* 
Oh/ voice, that exults in its liberty, 
Say now. to the African, "Thou art Free " 

Warren Co. 



From Dickens' London News. 
'WAIT A LITTLE LOGGER." 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A g-Jod 'ime coming : 
We ma not 'n'e to see the day, 
But ■ arth shall glisten in the ray 

Of the good time coming. 
Cannon balls may aid the truth, 

But thought's a weapon stronger; 
We'll win our ba:tlc by its aid; 

Wait a lntk> longer. 

There's a g<Ksd time coming, boys, 

A good tune coming: 
The pen shall wpercde the sword, 
And right, sot might, shnl' be the lord, 

In the good time coming. 
Worth, not birth shall rule mankind, 

And be acknowledged stronger; 
The proper impulse has been given; 

Wait a little longer. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A g< od time coming, 
War id all men's • yes shall be 
A monster of iniquity, 

In the gr>od time coming. 
Nations shall not quarel then, 

To prove which is the stronger ; 
Nor slaughter men for glory's sake ; 

Wait* little lunger. 

There's* good time coming, boys, 

A good time coming ; 
Hateful rivulres of creed 
Shall not make their martyrs hlee^ 

1* the good lims comiuf* 



R-lieo" shall be shorn of pride, 
And flourish all the strong- r, 

And ' haritv .-ha': trim ner 'amp ;— 
Wait a little long r. 

There's a good time eoming, boys, 

A good time coming : 
And a poor man'- family 
Shall not b* his misery, 

In tbi"! i;ood time coming. 
Every child shaft b a help, 

To make his right arm stronger ; 
The happier he, \he more h<- has:— - 

Wait a little longer. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A goba ..une coming : 
Little children shall not toil 
Under, or above, t e soil, 

In the guod time coming ; 
But shall play in healthful fields, 

Till limbs and minds grow stronger ; 
And every one shall read and write :— 

Wait a little long ;r. 

There's a good time coming, boy6, 

A g-od time coming : 
The people shal : be 'emperate, 
And shall love instead of hate, 

In the good time coming. gj 
They sha 1 use and not abuse, 

And mak.: ali virtue stronger; 
The Reformation hat? begun ; — 

Wait a little longer. 

There^s a good time coming, boys, 

A good time coming : 
Let us aid it all we can, 
Every w man, every man, 

The good time coming. 
Smallest helps if rightly given, 

Make the impulse stronger; 
Twill be strong enough one day ; 

Wait a little longer. 



Temperance Record. 



GREAT PROGRESS. — GLORIOUS RESULTS. 

The late Elction in New York to settle the Ques- 
tion of License or No License, has resulted in the over- 
whelming defeat of the rummies in iearly all the Towns 
h' ard from and we congratulate the Friends of Temp- 
erance ev ry where on these results. Great eftbrt was 
made by the makers, Sellers and Topers of every grade, 
but their defeat has been complete, which the Liberty 
Press, says is sufficiently indicated by their"wry, down- 
cast visages." We give a few items to show what 
may be done by voting. 

Oneida Co. Paris gives for License 33, No License 
345; Whitestown, License 135, No License 475;Marcy 
License 26, No License 176; Vera.™, gives 95. majori- 
ty, for No License; Bridgewater 58, Verona, 180; West- 
moreland 238; Lee, 72; Kirkiand 45; Western, 108; 
Marshall 35; Augusta, 83; Deerfh Id, 340; Trenton. 
R^msen and Annsville, all no License, Rome goes for 
License by 16 majority, Sangersfi'-Id goes for License; 
Utiea goes for no License 2 to 1. 

Madiion Co. Goes no License in all the Towns. 
Herkmer Co, goes No License in all the Towns bui 
one in which there is a tie. 

Onandago Co. Syracuse including all the Town of 
Salinagoes, License, 415 No License 1773. 
Manlius, No License 2 to 1 

Dewitt - 4 to 1 

Auburn - by 500 majority 

Seneca Falls- - by 228 

Waterloo - by 1&9 

Rochester- - - 624 - 

Albany - - 1500 

Batava - 27 
Plainfield- - - 140 

Only two Towns between Albany and Syracuse go 
for rum. 

Th ais !»u;ge majorities show that the strength in the 



Slate is On the side^of Temperance. 
Where rum hafeired the day, it has been by small 

majorities only. This voting is what frightens the '•rum- 
ocrats' w ho are a ways roaring out the "devils thunder." 

We give the following additional items from the Lst 
(Utica) Liberty Press. 

The License Election. ' 

The returns ar< like a jug handle, all on one side. 
The counties generally have gone for " "No License " 
with majorities similar to those reported in the return^ 
last week. Brooklyn goes for " No License" by 3,000 
maj.; and New York would have done the same thing, 
if the politicians had a'lowed her to speak her mind. 

Our friend Theron Plumb, says: — In Busti, Chautau- 
que county, "of 220 voters enly, ll are for License. In 
r.llicott, adjoining of 360, only 7 for License. The 
raide-st drink: rs voted for No License from motives of 
,-,elf-preservatii.n." 

The election ha* raised our countrymen a huudred 
per cent, in our estimation. It shows* that there is a 
degree of soundness in the heart of the people, ai d that 
the heart would beat right ii left free to follow its own 
promptings. 



More Romanism. Rev. Wm. Quarter, a Catholic 
Bishop, organized a Temperance Society in Chicago a 
week or two ago, and obiainned sixteen hundred names 
to the te-total pledge in one w eek! Our domsetic in- 
•titutiens are in danger! The hearths of American Dis- 
tilleries are in danger, and the cherished niters so 'ong 
perfumed and perfused with libations of wiskey mav yet 
be desecrated and drowned by a deluge of cold water. 
Liberty Press 

The Cumanche Indians in Texas, call Sam. Housten, 

the "Big Drunk" 



MODERJN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protestant 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale a< this office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 
the Freeman, Boonton, N. J. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Liberty Minstrel arc for 
sa'c at 'hi-; office. 

This is sup -rior to any thing of the t<ind we have 
<een, and shorn! be iu fie iioss-ssion of every o te that 
loves -rood music, and loves to make a good use of it. 
Price, 44 cents. 

Boonton Washington Temperance Bencv- 
dent Society— meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church. Thomas Ui;ey 
President, Marcus Evarts Secretary. 

5CJ.THE UNION MISSIONARY.— This monthly 
paper published at No. 5 Spruce Street N. Y., is the 
Organ of the Union Missionary Society, a Society 
that refuses donations from Slaveholders or to employ 
Slaveholders in missionary operations it is an ex- 
ceedingly interesting paper, 6. led with interesting ac- 
counts of the free missionary operations in Can »du, Af- 
rica, Sandwich Islands Sic. All those who have any 
interest in such missions, will feel richly rewarded by 
patronizi g that paper. 

Lewis Tappan is Treasurer of the U. M. Society and 
willbehapp> to receive donations of an> wort, except 
such u is wrung from the unpaid toii of the Slave 





01*. . 

T II E % FREEMAN 

WtLI, BE 1>U3LI8HEI> MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boohtm, JTor~>s County, iVew Jersey. 

T E R M S. 
Sinyle copy 25. cents per annum, of for 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



BOOHTO^T, JUNE 13, 



NO, 



(3. 



For the Freeman. 
THE UNITY OF REFORM. 

A SHORT FRIENDLY DIALOGUE BtTWEEtf CONSERVA- 
TOR and Reformer. 

Conservator.— is grist th^ comes to your mill? 
Reformer. — Certainly. 

Con — First you speak up for abolition: then comes 
Temperance, then Peace, .hen Legal Reform, next, I 
eupp ase, Diet, and then Marriage. 

it-/ — Why not? As all kinds of grain grow on good 
joil,so a-1 kinds ©f reform find their source in a good 
sou 

Con. — I declare you won't let us smoke a pipe nor 
ea' our perk in comfort. 

ice/-- The unity of tfee sciences, the unity of the arts 
the unity of religion, and various other unities have been 
■poken of, even the unity of disease: why not then the 
unit of reform? 

Con. — Ah! that is what I expected. You will nev- 
er be done. We might as well keep where wc are as 
nuke all this fuss; for when you have carried one point 
th-n you will bo. her us with another. You have more 
seal than discretion. I fear. 

Ref. — 1 might confess that without any disgrace or 
regret. For as vou say, I have a notion that human im- 
provement has no bounds wc can yet see. Humau 
degradation and error seem 'o be almost bound eas, and 
at least we must travel back out of tfaetfi* 

Co»:-T-Thcrc 1 agree with you; vice and iniquity a- 
bound, but what can man do? 

Rrj. — Much, the r>'g/tr way as he has the, wrong. 
At ^east he can cease the wrong. I would have you 
take courage, and yield you'self up to hopeful feelings 
that much happiness is in store for you. And the hap- 
piness not oniy augments in quantity, but becomes more 
int. nse i« quality, the'higher we ascend in reform. 
Most likely the origin of wrong is one, and therefore a 
unity of tight may be conceived. 

Con.— So you think that is sufficient reason for dan 
cing me round to every point ot the reformatory com- 
ptss with your new-fangled schemes. 

lief, —Undoubtedly it is a fact that the mind whkh 
has arrived ai the perception of the necessity of one re- 
form soon comes so see the necessity and the beauty of 
another. Who that was onee a swearing drunkard, 1V>W 
that he Ivts left erf his drunkenness, does not feel that 
swrnariugSs a vile custom? Vices go in company, 
•why not vHues? I know it is the fashion among those 
who want to lag behind in old corru^ habits, to scoff 
and sneer at any one who is active in trying to mend 
matters. But I feel no necessity fur taking these re- 
marks ia the hostile aspect. Let us learu that this 
is high praise for our cause. It affirms for us tha : 
we have discovered the source, the foundation of wron^. 
and that we d > not intend to be idle, un.il this foui 
*pring is dried un, and the pur.- fountain ot living wa- 
ters flows ia its stead. L. 



all cases of human woe, wretchedness and guilt, no mat- 
ter how degraded and vile may be the sufferer. Not 
only the slave, but the drunkard the felon and the fe- 
male outcast receive commiseration and regard, and in 
raaify places efficient agencies are atwoikfor their res 
: ration to respectability and virtue. The name of 
Howard has b»c me know r. through the civilized w orld 
for his philanthropic exertion* in Euro e. In Pn ... 
here is another man of similar stamp, althougii acti"g 
in an humble place.— His name is John Augustus 
His fame is not yet as widely diii'uscd as' that of How- 
ard, but he ha* obtained quit* a notoriety in the criminal 
court of that city b' bailing offenders. We find the fol- 
lowing in I tetter to the Massachusetts Legislative T-m 
erafiCH *>eilrty calling their attention to the necessity of 
stablishhlg a temporary home for persons discharged 
from the House of Correction. 

At present a poor unfortunate Woman of intemp rat 
habits is taken from her family, and sent to the house of 
correction & bef re she comes out her family is sea .eve", 
and she knows not where to find her friends, » r perhaps 
her children. She has no where to lay herhead unle-s 
she seeks shelter in some den or some back lane about 
Ann street. There she gets drunk and gets sent back 
to the h uae of correction perhaps in two or three uav» 
and it is the same with the men. Eight tenths of a 1 
that go to the house of correction are for drunkenness. 
As soon as my attention was called to the subject <* hich 
was by accident; I th .ugh I w ould try an experiment by 
standing bail for a man who was found guilty of feeing a 
common drunkard. I was in court , and stepped up to 
him and asked if he would sign the pledge if I w-uld get 
his sentence put off for a fortnight and stand his bail in 
order to give him a chance to try to do better. He agreed 
to do so— kept the pledge and became a better man. At 
the end of the fortnight he was let off upon the payment 
of a small fine. 1 continue this pnrctice and the result 
is as follows. 

From January 1st, 1842, to January 1st 8146, I bailed 
three hundred persons brought up as common drunkards 
male and female. Of this number more than two hund- 
red have done well. The balance might have been 
saved if there had been a place for them to slop 
a few davs, to recover from the effects of run 
and wait for employment. I do not know how many 
of them fell back, because 1 lost the track of them. 
I have heard that some are doing well in 
other places. I have also been bail in cases cf 
simple drunkenness and other petty offences, to the 
number of 100~-making in all 500 instances. Thewhoe 
sum for which I have b< en bail is $25,000 and have only- 
suffered one forfeiture, which was for $100 . Of the 
300 common drunkards whom I bailed, 275 were, after 
signing the pledge and being under probation a week or 
two discharged upon paying a fine of one cent, and cost 
about $4 in each case— making in all $1100 paid iuto 
.he treasury of the County or State. If they bad heen 
sent to the house of cor -ection, nothing would have been 
paid on their account, and the officers would have beer 
paid fees for carrying them over. By my plan ttvn> :} 
I as been both paid and sared to the state, unless they 
m:.ke a profit ■ n the labor of such convicts in the hous< 
.feorn ction— a fact which I have not yet learnt." 
Signal of Liberty . 



prospect of war, enlisting our pockets and our pride 
the inherent sense of right has grown stronger in public 
discussion, and the principle of love tcwards all man- 
kind is better understood. 

That men with the words of peace so frequency, so 
constantly on their lips, should have been so many cen- 
turies learning to praetice their doctrines, is a curione 
iud deplorable fact. But the sunshine has at length 
broken through the cloud, and the bow of hope will 
;oon become the Ararat of certainty. 

Why should we feel gratifi d on this pogrces? Ls 
h-re much harm in allowing silly people, who feel 
.ney are good for nothing bt iter, to sfcmd up and be shot 
at for a shilling a day? I'oes it not rid the nations of 
hydros s and rubbi-h of humanilv, and leave wider 
space, forfhe thoughtful and superior'' Wot a few still 
... i -a-ri sentim- r.ts of this kind. But they are among 
the most mistakes of the human race. It is an in- 
ense wrong dune to the peaceful and well disposed that 
y man .n <ny part of the globe, however distant, 
should so degrade and abase himself and his brethren as 
tode.NO'e himself to war. No triumphs of arms can' 
•ver compensate the moral loss consequent on war, and 
an assent to its principles. Considered in itself alone 
this e*t»';&iefl of the Peace Principle is a bright spot in 
'he horizon, which iu its consequences is stiil more 
promising of the highest good. It is not possible that 
nations can exhibit the peace spirit to nations, without 
men acting out the peace spirit to men. If the sword 
is to rust, and th- fort is to crumble away, what will 
become of the gallows, the manacles, and the lash? If 
the citizen of a' distant narion, worshipper in a different 
religion, born of another race and color, speaking e 
different tongue, educated under opposite laws, ignorant,- 
rude, hostile, is to be treated as a brother, and as a hu- 
man soul; how can such loVe be denied to cur native 
brethren, be their c< nduct, their color, or their cal'ing 
what it mav? It cannot be. When we bury the toma- 
hawk; the gallows, the cat, and the slave code must be 
thrown into the same grave. And the sooner we attend 
the. fun. ral, the more shall gladn-ss swell oUr hearts. ^ 
Hail then to national peace and its consequences! 
Peace abroad, a d peace at home; peace on the ocean 
and peace on land; peace in the field, K-ace i n 'he house; 
peace in the Legislatures, in the Church* ifl the facto* 
ry. Peace to the evil doer, to the insane and the mis- 
taken. Let him only who is free from error,- void cf 
offence, without sin, throw the first stone. L. 



KINDNESS JO THE GUILTY. 
It is gratifying to the philanthropist to find that the 
principles of the Gospel arc beginning to b»> applied to 



For the Freeman. 



The progress of thePEACE PRINCIPLE .-.ir/'V,:- - 
by both press and pulpit as organs of the public sent! 
M ent, is one of the cheering signs of OUT age. 
withstanding the leading deb* ea of the NfeWI 
.'!•<• ss this war l.fcvo fce*tt, ou a spect inemyiug 



We give thf following extract from Mr. Giddhig'tf 
speech in Congress on cur aiTairs with Mexico. Af:er 
.bowing beyond dispute that Gen. Taylor and all hi* 
ton are on Mexican Terr* cry, therefore must be th* 
aggressors, he goes on as follows on the probable coil 
-Miuenccsof this unrighteous crusade against human 
liberty. 

"This war, ' apprehend, will prove no child's pl-'iy 
I entertain hut liu'.e a^preheBsioo from pi ch c t.aiti< s. 

Indeed, 1 doubt whether such a battle w d ever b» 
fought. It will be a kind of guevrila wan..re. Ovr rn- 
wili seldom *><• their ei.< mivs, who Will imfy aiov,r«l 
„ur camps, and destroy oOr men detail, as opporum^ 
.hall - ffer. But the pestilence ot the cinftte is .o w: 
at moat deadly foe. Send your fifty thou^fid t-Iu-m 
fert to the Rio Giande, and tiie deadly m.asn»awi!' as- 
■ill them, tv ill wnste their energies-. The Jcliow 
add its concofiiitfent di.v-,.«e S will do their wo.k ofdert.. 
four troojft will fall b< fore an unseen power, and thetf 

S «il! whiten upon .hose distant prairies , ar.fc *« 

f manv a wit L many au orphan will bleed ere 
I ... , , ,, in ' „!m,it*/oar arms. Sir, no man fegardi- 
. , -. A ., Weknwfth* country knows, and the 
.'I,; „ . Jr.... , : • . fliKioua- th'..' it has resulted ftotti 
j ;,, .. x .. ; . gas ain r.n insii'.tr.icn on *hicL 



POET'S 



CORNER. 



jn For The cY-eman. 

ODE FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY 1846 

Hark! hark! from the m<»ui)ta;JSh ^ m:>rry sons, 
Loud, louder it swells it pours along, 
It rouses the brave, and it the tree, 
And they join iu the glorious jubik c> ! 

To day, they remember a na'ioes' birth ! 
Defiance, a strife, and a teeming; < arfh! 
And the work was done! and the Eagle rose 
In triarnph o'er liberty's fallen Iocs. 

Bright legions appear, and their hearts are one, 
To honor ihedeods thai .heir Sires have done: 
And the vet-ran proudly unepveres his scars. 
Tc greet hi.3 old banner of stripes and stars. 

An anthem of joy, and -a marital strain, 
Bursts locid on im & •r, "O n-,er again 
Shail a tyrants vptcc, or a tyrants hand, 
Be heard, or feltin our happy land. 

Yet hold! there's a sound from a ionely glpji, 
A sound like the clanking of fettered men! 
Commingled with signs, that a th-ughr import, 
Of a wounded pride, and a broken h art.'" 

Aud are there yet hearts, on this festal dav ? 
That will not be happy, that cannot be ga/? 
Who know nor the joys that d*jttpture :h- free, 
That share not the prize of their chivalry/ 

Ah yes, there are those who are not unbound, 
Who may not respond to the joyous sound, 
That bids to the Nation's- Jubi u , 
There's Freedom, Poor Negro, but not for thee/ 
So he hides him away in his lonely gh n 
For he may not be seen among whiter men, 
There he lifts his drams and lie drops a t ar, 
And he heaves a sigh that his God will hear/ 

Oh! h"arts that can feel anothexii_v*»of>/ 

Oh- hands that can say to the captive, "go;" 

Oh/ voice, that exults in its liberty, 

Say now, to the African, "Thou art Free." 

War.cn Co. 



From Dickons' London News. 
"WAIT A UTI LE LOMGEK." 

There's a goou time coming, boys, 

A good time coming : 
We mav not ive to sec the day, 
But - arth shaii glisten in the ray 

Of the go u tune coming. 
Cannon bails may aid the truth, 

But thought's a wi £p~ofl s. rotifer; 
We'll win our battle by its aid ; - 

Wait a little longer. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A good time comir.g: 
The pen shall superc. de the sword, 
And right, not might, shah he the lord, 

In the good time coming. 
Worth, not birtfe shah n.v" 5 mankind, 

And be acknowledged ,s' router ; 
The proper impulse has been given; 

Wait a little loneer 

There's a good time coming, bovs, 

A g -od time coming, 
War in all men's eyes shall be 
A monster ofhiinuity, 

In the good time comings 
Nations shall not quarel then, 

To prove which is the stronger; 
Nor slaughter men for glory's sake ; 

Wait a littU longer. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A good time comi ng ; < , 
I a.ciui rivalr es of creed 
Shaii not make their martyrs bleed 

In the good time coming. 



Reiigoo sha ! J be shorn of pride, 

And fl< utish a'j the stron«" r, 
x And » haritv shall tiim her lamp; — 
Wait a little longer. 

Th-re's a good time eoming, boys, 

A good tin.- coming : 
Ai d a p. ,or n:nn'- family 
Shad not be his iniserv, 
' In jreija <nu coming, 
Every child -hail b< a help, 
r t To ciak • bis right aim stronger ; 
The naj.p'er he, the more he has:— 

Wait a little longer. 

There's a good thjrffe coming, boys, 

A good time coming : 
Lixtlc children shall not toil 
Under, or above, fie soil, 

In the good titne coniiii" ; 
But shall play m healthful fields, 

Viii iunbs and minds g»ow stroh»er: 
And every one siiail read and write :- 

W ait a little lunger. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A g od time coming : 
The people thai: be! vmperate, 
And fliWI love instead of hate, 

In the good time coming. 
They shad use and not abuse, 

Ann make ail virtue stronger; 
Tii" Reformation has" begun ; — 

Wait a little longer. 

There's a good time coming, boys, 

A good urne coming : 
Let us aid it it! we coin, 
Every w-maii, every man, 

The good time eoming. 
SmaMesi helps, if rightly given, 

Make the impulse stronger ; 
'Twui be strong enough one day ; 

Wait a little tourer. 



Ternp^ mi^e Record. 

txKEA T i'RoGRLs.S. — GLORIOUS RESULTS. 

The late E'.ction in New York to settle the Ques- 
tion of License or -V<? Lkense, has resulted in the over- 
whelming defeat of .he rummies in nearly all the Towns 
heard from and we congratulate the Friends of Temp 
erance ev ry where on th? se results. Great effort was 
made by the makers, Sellers and Topers of every grade, 
but rheir defeat has been complete, which the Liberty 
Press, -ays is sufficiently indicated by thcir"wry, down 
cast visages." W e give a few items to show wha 
may be done by voting. 

Oneida Co. Paris gives for^License 33, No License 
345; Wbitestown, Li-enjie. 135, No License 470;Marcy 
Lieens^ 86, iVo License! 17b; Vernon, gives 95. majori- 
ty, for No License; Bi idgev. ater 58, Verona, 180; West- 
moreland 238; Lee, rapCirkiand 45; Western, 108; 
Marshall 35: Augusta, fej; Deei th Id, 340; Trenton, 
Remsen and Annsvillc, all no License, Rome g..es for 
License by 16 majority, Strfigersfi.jld goes for License; 
Utiea goes for no License 2 to 1. 
Madison Co. Goes no License in all the Towns. 
Herhmcr Co. goes .No License in all the Towns but 
me in which there is a tie. 

Onandhffo Co. Syracuse including ail the Town ol 
Salinagoes, License, 415 IVo License 1779. 



ate is on the side of Temp, ,ance. 

Where rum has cared the day, it has been bv small 
i -Monties only. This voting is what frightens the W 
>crats who are a ways roaring out the "devils thunder » 

w'-K ht ,' f o OWiSg at,dkional items from last 

Uticu) Liberty Press. 

T 1) e License Election. 
Theretumsar-likeajug handle, afTon one side 
1 he counties generally have gone for « " No Licence » 
4 ith majorities similar to those reported in the returns 
ast week. Brooklyn goes for "No License" by JfcOOO 
noaj.; a*d New York would have done the same thintr 
: the politicians had allowed her to speak her mind 

Our friend Theron Plumb, says:-in Bnsti, Chautau- 
tfue county, "„f 220 voters only, 1 1 are for License. In 
Mlicott, adjoining of 360, only 7 for Lie use The 
ardest drink rs voted for No License from motives of 
■ lf-preservatii n." 

The election has raised our countrymen a hundred 
:<er cent, in our estimation. It shows that there is a 
degree of soundness in the henrt of the people, a d that 

the heart would beat right il left free to follow its own 
promptings. 



More Onanism. Rev. Wm. Qoart-r, a Catholic 
Bishop, organized a Temperance Society in Chicago a 
week or two ago, and ohtainncd sixteen hundred names 
j to the te-total pledge in one week! Our domsetic in- 
stitutions are in danger! The hearths of American Dis- 
tilleries are in danger, and the cherished alters so long 
perfumed and perfused with libations of wiskey mav y»t 
be desecrated aud drowned by a deluge of cold water. 
Liberty Press 

The Cumanche Indians in Texas, call Sam. Housten, 
the u I3i s Drunk" 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH CUUR1S 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by, the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniqui/ous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the ./Protestant 
church. It should be read by every body. 
For sale a/ this office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CtHJRCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by :10HIN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the - 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 
he Freeman, Boonton, N.J. 



Manlius, No License 
D&itt - . 
*\nburnifc.- - by 
S* : neca Falls - - by 
j \ WatevJoo - - by 
; RoifeeVier- 
] • Albany - - 
j ' Barava - - - 
' P.lainfhld- 

I ; S^ty iyi0 Towns between Albany and Syracuse go 
j for v m. 

j Tinse iarge majoiities show that the Strength in the 



2 to 1 
4 to 1 

5u0 majority 
228 

199 " - 
624 - 
1500 
27 
149 



LIBER TFJILYSTREL. 

A few copies of Ciark's Liberty Minstrel are for 
sa>o at ihis office! 

This is superior to any thing of the kind we h ive ' 
•teen, and 4i eid be in the possession of everyone h.it 
loves uood music, and loves to make a good u>e of if. 1 
Price, 44 cents. 

Boonton ii'askingtoti Temperance Hcncr- 
Aetit Society, — meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Uhureh. J hon.as ivi.ey 
J > resideat, M.ircus Evarts Secretary. 



fjJ^THE UNION MISSIONARY.— This monthly, 
paper published at No. 5 Spruce Street N. Y., is the , 
Organ of the Union Missionary Society, a Society 
that refuses donations from Slaveholders or to employ 
Slaveholders in missionary operations It is an ex- 
ceedingly interesting paper, filed with int. resting ac- 
counts of the free missionary operations in Can ida, Af- 
rica, Sandwich Islands &c. All those who have any 
interest in such missions, will feel richly rewarded by ' 
patronizi g that paper. 

Lewis Tappan is Treasurer of the U. M. Soci/ty and 
will be happy to receive donations of anv sort, v-xcept 
such as is wrung from the unpaid toil of the Slave. 




ETiSEY FREEMAN. 



VOL. 



BOONTOW, JULY 18, 1846. 



JVO. 14< 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

TERM S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, or for 12. numbers 
10. cooies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Maine Liberty Standard. 
THE WAR FOR'SLAVERY. 

As oUr readers are well aware, our country is fu'lv 
heaged in a>ar with Mexico. War is always a great 
alamity, 'rife with al manner of evil, and in the opin- 
io of many of the wisest men of the present age, never 
ecessary. What, then, must be the nature of a war, 
egun confessedly to strengthen the bands of oppression, 
i now waged with a fiendish spirit for the avowed pur- 
pose of extending the curse of slavery over territories 
obbed, and to be robbed from a weak, defenceless pco- 
ile! A people whose solemn treaty stipulations with 
ureelves we have trampled under foot, whose rights 
re have infringed, whose territory we have invaded, 
nd are now about to wrest from them with bloody hands! 
jure we are that in such a war, God "has no attki- 

TE THAT CAN TAKE SIDES WITH BS." 

History finishes no case of oppression by a power- 
ul nation upon a weak one and distracted, more wanton 
aorc atrocious and cruel, than our treatment of Mexi- 
o. And it has been as cowardly, as it has been 
[lean .— The dismemberment of Poland by the crown- 
d despots of Europe was not more unjust and jgnpinm- 
ous. And yet the game has been played so adroit- 
y by southern hands, that all the p. ople, north and 
outh, are found supporting the war before they know 
And if one can judge by the ebullitions of | artizan 
iresses, the people of the free States are willing still 10 
ruckle and stoop to the slave power, and pour out 
heir blood and their treasure to defend and strengthen 
It would almost seem that the "doughfaces" of 
Randolph's day, wire noble men compared with the 
>eople of this generation in the North; for verily, there 
•an be no act of debasement to which they not 
itoop, if their Southern masters will only deiun to give 
hem the crumbs which fall from their tables. The 
Mexican war-has developed a crouching spirit in the 
ree States, that, notwithstanding all the insults and in- 
uries without number endured for scores of years, ex- 
,ihits no signs of manhood, but for every little faror 
•ranted bv Southern overseers, whispers, "we are but 
u.profitable servants." Thus, through the instru- 
•ntajjty of party spirit, the North is bomuhto this Jug- 
rcrnaut of slavery, and the leaders of both the Whig 
md Democratic parties, w ith some honorable excep- 
ions, fear to raise a note of warning or reproof, lest the 
peace <,f the party, and its success 1848, shall be on- 
langered.— As the people of this State have been cal- 
cd upon by our Governor, ard are graciously offered 
he privilege of fighting to extend the area of huma» 
jondage, we offer a few remarks for their, considera- 
tion. 

1. This war is emphatically one of aggression on our 
ftart. We heaped injury upon injury to the Mexican*, 

til they had no alternative but to defend themselves. 
_.>say nothing about the acquisition of Texas, the 
;ourse of our government since that time, l as been one 
Vrt.tieual series of KfOage and insults. Our army was 
ordered to march to the Rio Grande, into the very bean 
»f the Mexican province of XainaulSpa*, where M -x- 



iean jurisdiction was undisputed. Col. Benton him- 
self says w ith his usual boldness, in his speech of May 
6th. 

" I wash my hands of »H attempts to dismember the 
Mexican Republic by seising her dominions in Neu 
Mexico. Chihuahua, Coahdht and famaulipas. The 

treaty, IN ALL THAT RELATES TO THE ROUND ARY OF THE 

Rio Grande, is an act < f i-ni'aual.'.ei.ld outrage on 
Mexico. It is the seizure of two thousand miles 
of her territory, without a w rd ofexp anation with 
her t and by virtue- • f a treatv with Texas to which she 
is no party. Our Secretary o! State in his letter to 
the United Slates Charge in Mexico, and sev< n days 
after 'he treaty was signed, and after, the Mexican 
Minister had withdraw n from our seat of Oovarnment, 
shows full well that he ivas conscious o/the eNohmity 
<,f this outrage; knew it was war; and proffered vol- 
unteer apologies to av rt the consequences which he 
knew he had provoked." 

The folio i g from the N. Y. Tribune, is better 
than anything w e can say in further proof of our posi- 
tion: 

" As to the pretence that Texas tightftrily extends 
to the Rio Gr nde, ih< man who sets it up would take 
any pocket-book that h thought he cou'd ketp by fair 
er fou mi ans. Teia never hao jurisdiction over one 
foot of land watered by the Rio Grande or its tributa- 
ries; no singfe uTrHvitrnal living on the waters of that riv- 
er ever participated in, or openly sympathized w ith the 
Texan revolt; there never was an election held, nor a 
writ served, under the authority of Texas, on the w a- 
ters of that river, from the Roeky mcun ains to the 
Gulf. San Isabel, and the spot occupied by Gen. Tay- 
lor's troops opposite Mat; moras, were just as much 
Mexican teritory at all timesrupto our military ecupa- 
tion of them, as Vera Cruz or Matamoras. Our of- 
ficers on the spot have written heme letters, speaking 
of their encampment in the heart of the Mexican prov- 
ince of Tamoulipos— and marveling at the meekness o t 
the Mexicans in allowing us to drive them before us o- 
ver the Ri<> Grande, plant our cannon in battery oppo- 
site that city, and cut up their plantations with our en- 
trenchments and fortresses. When our aimy crossed 
the Colorado, the Mexican chief, Ccd. Canals, warn- 
ed the m to desist— that they were invading Mexican 
territory, and that he should fire' on them if they advan- 
ced further. They, obeyed orders, advanced and he 
retreated without firing. ' San Nabel wisffwdby the 
Mexicans at Gen. Taylor's approach. Finally, af- 
ter .very other provocation had been tried, our fleet 
blockaded the mouth ofthc Rio Grande, euttin : off the 
supplies of the Mexican army, and compelling them to 
fio-Trt or starve. The issue has been war, as was ex- 
pected and desired." 

2. The war in which we are engaged it one of con- 
qttcst for slavery. This, the papers of the Sotith o- 
penly proclaim The hungering and thirsting afcr 
power in 'he South will never beV.Tisfied. until slavery 
reigns triumphant under the American arnTts throughout 
all the Mexican provinces. And shrewdly have tit- 
slaveholders managed to bring the North into the tra- 
ces. Gen. Taylor was secretly ordered into the 
heart of the enemy's country, where he was surround- 
ed by foes, and his supplies cut off. Then all at one- 
it was blazoned throughout the country that our arm) 
had been attacked, and was in danger of beii ^destroy- 
ed ! Rumors of war sj)« ad like w ih'fne. The pre- 
sident again come out with his old budget of Mexican 
injuries, to madden and inflame. Cong. ess. carried a- 
way by the excitement, declared war, appropiated Ten 
millions of dollars, and au'.horiz. d the raising of 50,000 
volunteers fo* the army.— In a few days the excitem- nl 
subsided, Taylor was out of danger, end it wes f •v.nd 
:!-.at (in c: r.imon parlance) we were "more scared than 



hurt." But the South had driven the nail, and clinch- 
ad it; and now, w ith Northern men, and Northern mon- 
ey, they are taking up their line of march for the hails 
of Montezuma. It is useless now to protest. Wheth- 
er we furnish men or nor, we shall have to pay the 
hills. Southern overseerism and cunning, and North- 
ern stupidity and ttmMiag fastened the war upon us, 
and e must b' ar it. And the North is bearing it 
pattently. — Even Gov." Briggs e&rlte on the good peo- 
ple of Massachusetts to sustain it, and the presses of 
both the leading parties, with some exceptions, say 
that we ought 'O support it. — And well may the 
Washington Union, that official mouthpiece of the slave 
power encouraged by our lameness and scrvi ily cry 
out " 'westward, ho!' Let us redouble our exertions, 
gather our volunteer force as rappidly as possible, throw 
them across the Rio Grande, march i'lto Mexico, and 
terminate 'he war, if necessary, in the halls of Monte- 
zuma. This is the time for action — bold; vigorous, 
decided action- Stroke should follow after stroke, and 
bring these vaunting, arrogant, obstinate Mixicar.s to 
terms. Let us have a brisk and short war of it. 

For which purpose let us put forth all our strength 
at once." 

D. 



For the Freenran. 

EDUCATION OF WOMEN. 

If we would have happier families, we must have 
happier mothers. If we would have happier mothers, 
we must have well educated w omen; not only young 
ladies wh" can finger a Piano and speak a little French, 
though these things are ver\ well in their way, but 
we mean truly enlightened persons; women, who by 
the light shed upon their minds shall be able to take 
their true moral standing in the family; shall be able in 
a blissful manner to be ihe first to introduce their off- 
spring into the spiritual world, as they bring them into 
the material world. The former is no less their true 
appointment than the latter. It is - ot conceivable that 
the mother is destined to bring her child into the nat- 
ural world merely as an animal. Is not an immortal soul 
•.hen born? Who shall nurture, this divine gift in its 
earliest hours if not the mother? How then shall the 
mother truly and properly fulfil this sacred duty, if she 
has been brought up in darkness and treated as a being 
inferi'pr to man and unworthy of a good education? 

Woman is born for a higher position than to be mere- 
ly the slave of man's will and pleasure. The man 
who has not discovered this is himself a slave of the 
saddest sort. Such an idea may pass in Turkey, but 
it is utterly opposed to the principles of the new and 
Chrisian world. Yet in some places the thought still 
prevails, that an enlightenrd w oman is incapable of at- 
tending to her domestic duties: that reading and writing, 
books and pens, are quite at varience with wholesome 
I cookery, a clean ho«se, orderly children, a loving and 
' ! atient wife. But it is not so, as any one may easily 
5 ee. Any one who has visited New England with his 
eyes open has learned ll at where there is tic most lit- 
erary knowledge and the best general dcvclopornent of 
{the intellect, there, likewise are to be found the clean- 
est houses, the most firithfid marriages, the truest do- 
mestic happine-s, the tar:: est portion of honorable social 
comfort. Arc the houses of the ignorant wives better 
kept than the houses of the well informed? Are the 
sick children of the if n< rant mnhers belter :r< atcd than 
I he children of the well taught woman? Is a mother's 
i tove so weak that h arning can overlay or destroy it? 
No one ever heard of sueh n thing. But eases are by 
uo means rare, where the mml.or's igr.oicr.a- > «>s hem 
| the cam a whv the children have been allowed to falj 



into vicious courses. P'-en itul are the instances when j 
the mother's ignorance of the proper food, m cffcine or | 
treatment' of her child, has hurried it to an i a.ly grave. | 
Np it is nor credible that womarV can- become loo lc;irn-| 
ed. If not for her own sake, at least for the sake of her j 
children; The door to all sound and useful knowledge j 
should be open to woman. How often has it happen- | 
ed, that by the wife's ignorance of any subject of con- 
versation, the husband has b>en led to find his evening 
companions at the tavern, and has gone on step b.ystep 
in a course of intemperance, until the whole family has 
been involved in ruin. How oft>-n by ignorance of 
mental' laws, has the wife pursued- a line of conduct to- 
wards her husband which has wounded where she oth- 
erwise would have healed, and has separated those 
who in wisdom would have been united. No it cannot 
he supposed that ignorance is an attribute of happiness. 
Heaven is not a darjt, but a light placet, and the more 
light there is upon earth, the more heavenhke it will 
become. &• 



to hi ing about such a result. 

I oppose the action of 1818. It has a clause in favor 
of Colonization, and if that is stricken out, it is the 
strongest Abolition document in the world. 1 wi'l no,i 
consent to it, and the South will not. 

Tuesday morning, June 2. — Rev. John Ford conclu- 
ded his remarks and figain expressed his convictions 
that a division is preferfaMe to this continual agitation 
from year to yea*. He had wished that the whole 
church had been here to listen to the arguments Uj£*d 
on this question. Then ue might be united. But we 
cannot afford to divide. There are good and noble 
men at the .South and the North, and wij&jdf the ear- 
nestness of a man who loved" 23on above his chief joy. 
he implored the Assembly to (Otrjs to a harmonious de- 
cision. 



NEW SCHOOL GENESAL ASSEMBLY. 

We copy some excellent remarks on th« proceedings 
of this Assembly from the Pennsylvania Freeman, 
in an another column. 

It will not do at this day for people professing to 
ho christians, to approve of slavery , particularly at the 
North, and therefore nearly all the members of this body 
must^saythey are anti-slavery, in order to avoid un- 
christiauizing themselves in the views of the best peo- 
ple thelworld affords. The pro-slavery part of the 
members must make a show of anti- slavery, but with 
very few exceptions perhaps, labored very hard to make 
out such a difference between abolition and anti-si;*very 
that a man may consistently hate one and love the other 
which is- no- new thing among the time-serving opposers 
of universal freedom . 

Slavery, through the untiring efforts of the abolition- 
ists, has got to be very unpopular, and therefore time- 
serving men must run away from it; but they cannot go 
abolition for that is unpopular also, therefore they hate 
abolition and profess to love anti-slavery, and greatly 
desire people to think there is a vast difference between 
them, when in truth abolition in its anti-slavery sense 
is nothing more nor less than anti-slavery, and so it al 
wavs has been. Posterity will put them together as 
meaning one and the same thing, and will never give 
the character of anti-slavery to the?opposers of the ab- 
olition of the present age. We have room for none of 
the speeches on the occasion except the following, 
which comes from our own vicinity. We "have put 
back the the cause of liberty fifty years." — Just stick a 
pin there and we will *ee how assertions and facts will 
harmonize. We copy from the N. Y. Observer. 

Rev. John Ford of Rockaway Presbytery, N. J. 
went for action to allay agitation and preserve union & 
peace. If we cannot settle this thing and put it at rest, 
wc had better dissolve at once. And he wanted action 
that should iave the South. He had a document to. be 
submitted asking for a tri-form division of the Assembly 
and something like this will take place unless our action, 
is wise. II ; had never been an Abolitionist, but his! 
heart was with opposition to slavery. All Christendom j 
is against it. This isja 1 solemn {age, and when the j 
world is rising, as Wilberforce did, God forbid that I or| 
*ay, man should refuse; to act on the side of God, hu-| 
rrianity, trath. and justice. \ (jfook on emancipation as 
I do nit the rev.. I ition of 1770. '£he*> taxations wthout 
representation was she burden, n >w n. man is robbed «>l 
all and hims«f to b"N0t, and no representation. We 
must not, and how (shall we act? 

I look upon the. ttttra-aboI'ttoiHsla with horror. Tn»y 
have put back the cause o: liberty fifty year.*. 1 know 
it to b° true* Several states would fat re been on the 
side of emancipation now had it not been for the Aboli- 
tionist*. And dtN-isionJwill follow the action that the 
Abolitionists ask. J love this AsSemuly, as I never 
loved any before, and 7 will not consent to anv action 



CASS1US M. CLAY. 
It is no doubt to the surprise of all parties that C. M 
Cla- has taken up arms as a volunteer to fight for slve- 
ry, and gone on to Mexico. This is exceedingly sur- 
prising after all be has said and done, in reference to the 
dejngs of the government in this disgraceful robbery of 
Mexico of free Territory for the extension of slavery. 
But we have always doubted the purity of C. M. Clay's 
intentions. There has alwavs been something about 
him which has, in our views, weaken' d his claims on 
the public a disinterested Philnnlropist, and his la e 
conduct shows that we have done him no injustice. 
We are prepared to hear of any absurdities in the con- 
duct of a man that adopts as the rule of his actions- the 
following wicked and abominable sentiment. 

" Our opinion is, that the war, so unjustly and wick- 
edly begun, should be pressed with vigor. It is the 
only alternative left." 

We are less astonished at Mr. Clay's conduct than 
we are at the endorsement given to his sentiments & 
cours of action by the „Democratic Standard and Whig 
of 76," the organ of the Ohio State Central: Liberty 
Committee, published at Cincinnati. It is much to be 
regretted that any Liberty paper should be found to 
aanction snch wicked- absurdities. We copy the fol- 
lowing remarks 

From the Cincinnati Herakl. 

"THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE LEFT." 

Mr. Clav, the editor of the True American, in his 
paper of yesterday, announces that he has volunteered 
tor the war, and he attempts a justification of his con- 
duct. We shall not weary the patience of our readers 
by republishing the. multitude of words with w hich be 
strives to veil the inconsistency of his acts. Had he 
..me out, briefly and honestly, and declared that, being 
ambitous fry distinction, the theatre of war now pre- 
sented more attraction to hiro.., than the field of mond 
■•flbrt, the work of killing freemen appearing more glo- 
rious than the labor of saving slaves, we might have 
espected at least his frankness. But, we hate soph* 
hislry: we cannot e<-ar to see a man assuming a virtue 
which he has not — striving to delude himself and the 
public into to the belief that he is acting fron^ the holy 
motive of duty, when he is simply obeying the voice 
of an intense ambition. 

There are men so little versed in the wiles of Slavery 
so unfamilia* with tVe history of the relations hotwen 
this country and Mexico, as really to believe that the 
present war is one strictly of self-defence on our part. 
That they should support it earnestly, that they should 
even enlist as volun'eejUE to carry it forward ta a suc- 
cessful termination, is to be expected, 

Thev c;m he charged with no inconsistency, with no 
cool, deliberate disregard of Justice. But, Mr. Clay- 
is not one of this class. He has his eys* opeftcd, 
to the enormous aggressions of Slavery. ISo one has 
deifouneed in more seveio terms the annexation of 
Texas, and this war with Mexico. He has branded 
the President as the originator of it. He has declared 
again and wgfliu th ait was utterly unprovoked. He 
has dec'ared that its sole object is, conquest for the ag- 



grandizement of slavery. Helms ridiculed unspais 
ingly the plea that it is war in defense of the country. 
The preamble to the bill of Congress, asserting that 
war exists by the act of Mexico, he has repeatedly af- 
firmed, to be "a he — a nefarious^trap set by demagog-, 
ues to catch their opponents,." 

And yet, what is he now doing ? G'^ng deliberately 
into the "trap" — abandoning a field of anti-slavery la- 
bor, f,»r a tit-Id of pro-slavery war-- throwing up the 
pen with which he was advocating the cause of just- 
ice au<l Freedom, and seizing the sword to fight 
die battle of Injustice and Slavery! A»d this, mind- 
you, is according to his own showing/ 

"Our opinion," says he, "is, that the war, so unjust 
ly and; w ickedly begun, should be pressed with vigor. 
It is the only alternative left." 

It is no such thing. True, "The Democratic Stand- 
ard and Whig. of Seventy-Six," the campaign- pap> r, 
published under the authority of the State Central Lib- 
erty Committee, adopts and sanctions the same assump- 
tion. But, we repeat, it is false. Slavery and vio- 
lence say that "that there is no other alternative." 
— "we must^conquer peace." Such is the cry of "the 
war-dogs. 

Are the Liberty presses about to join this howling 
pack? Mr. Clay and the Liberty campaign paper 
may not be able to see apother alternative — but, let us 
iiear the generous sentiments of a man who has not 
yet come up to our sublime standard of Anti-Slavery or- 
thodoxy/ f&or^ce Greeley shall say whethi r there 
be not another alternative. 

"But we cannot belie.ve that th-^. true way to obtain 
Peace is by sending an Army farther and lariher into 
Mexico, battering dowu he r fortresses, capturing her 
ports, trampling dow n ner harvests, firing her dwellings 
and shedding the blood of hei People. We know this 
would* not be the right way to make peace between in- 
dividual, and it cannot be as between nations. Let 
us indicate our plan of conquering Peace.' 

Let our Government at once disclaim any intention 
of aggrandizing the nation by a further spoliation of Mex- 
ico. Le^ it refuse any further extension ^f territory at 
the expense of our feeble, distracted neighbor. Let 
our Volunteers b<- paid for their lost time, and sent 
home to attend their harvests, and. let our Army take 
up a position devensive mi rely. The true way would 
be to withdraw it at once from the waters of the Rio 
Grande to those of the Nueces, on this side of that de- 
sert which Mr. C. J. Ingsrsollso recently d' dared the 
natural boundary between this Country, including Tex- 
as, and Mexico. Let Mr Buchanan indicate by note 
to the Foreign Ministers at Washington the sincere de- 
sire of our Government fqr, a prompt and honorab'e ad- 
justment of differences with Mexico on the principle of 
mutual t>rgiv< ness of injuries. Let those Ministers be 
invoked to interpose their gqpd offices for the rees ab- 
ishment of Peace. After the exhibitation already 
given. of our power and Mexico's wekness in battle, 
such a course on.our part could not be attributed to in- 
ability or fear. Who doubts that it would 'conquer 
peace within six weeks? Who does not realize that 
it would be thf w isest thing we cou d do, even if 
th# thunders of Sinai had never syllabled, the stern, in- 
dexible injunction, ''] hou shalt not kill .' " 

What man of sense and principle can lay his handu- 
pon his heart, and^s-ay^ these, are any oilier than the 
words of Truth aud Soberness? Certainly it is remark- 
able that, w hile the- New York, Tribune should be giv- 
ing u-ttereiiee to sentiments, held up doubt, by nearly 
Uie whole of the Liberty Fatly, the Liberty campaign 
piper should be echoing sentiments of the Whig and 
Pemocra'ic parties! Wo cannot but believe thalth;? 
re xt number of l\tp. Standard will rontAfifc some cxp'ana- 
' son show ing that the Committee do not hold thcra&lv* s 
responsible f©f the article to which refer urc k livid--. 
Doubtless, Liberty men have a wght to no.niu.lgau what 
sentiments they please, hut other Lit erty wi"» h;.vc also 
a right quest n ir the if -soundness, 1* stow tfef * iko nsist- 
pnty. * ■ * - n ■. # . r » f, j 

We have censured tl e ' curse of the. V\ big prrss for 



ipholding a war they condemn as utterly flagitious; we 
■an do no less where a Liberty pap'T adopts the same 
ourse. Indeed, in this case, the inconsistency s'rikes 
is as being far . more extraordinary and humttia- 

We. put it toapy intelligent American: suppose you 
•hould by wiy means become a- citizen of Austria; that 
or the sake of securing peace and safety to Despotism, 
hat Country and Prance should provoke a war with 
Switzerland, and agree to partition its states between 
themselves. Would you supposing you to retah 
your present love for Freedom, engaged in such war- 
Would you volunteer, under the lying pretext of defend- 
ing your country America, in full view of the facts, 
that not one inch of American territory was in, the 
slightest danger of being pressed by a hostile foot, and 
that the sole object of the Despotic government was, 
to aggrandize itself by the spoliation of its neighbor? 
We already bear your answer: — '!Am I a dog that 1 
should do this thing?" 



From the Pennsylvania Freeman. 
THE NEW SCHOOL GENERAL ASSEMBLY. 
We complete this dav, as will be seen, our report of 
the debate in the New School General Assembly on 
the subject of slavery. This discussion, whether view- 
ed in the manner in which it was conducted, or the re- 
sult, in same respects, in which it issued, we consider 
one of the most interrestiug anil cheering circumstances 
connected with the anti-slavery movement, that has for 
a long time occurred in this city. When, the Assembly 
first commenced its. sessions, judging from some im'i- a- 
tions furnished, and from our past experience and ob- 
servation of ecclesiastical bodies ia regard to slavery, St 
New School General Assembly in particular, we. prog- 
nosticated that it would end, as all its predecessors had 
before it r in the defeat of the abolitionists and the tri- 
umph of 'heir opponents. We acknowledge however 
that we have been agreeably disappointed. There was 
a truer and stronger set of anti slavery men in that body 
than we had supposed, or than had been sent up to any 
previous General Assembly within our knowledge. 

These men, owing to their position on the roll, were 
not caPed upon, and therefore had no opportunity of 
showing their hands during the first week of the mee- 
ting, and the spectator of the proceedings was left to 
infer the qualitv of the abolitionists, in the body from the 
doush-faces who claimed to speak as anti-slavery men 
from the western and midle proportions of the state of 
New York. The drivelling ofthese creatures was dis- 
gustinsi be vond patient endurence. They were "anti- 
slaverv men but not abolitionists;" were for "mfld and 
moderate action;" were for preserving by all means 
the "unitv of the church;" were- "opposed to all ultra 
and devisivc measures;" had great "sympathy with the 
dear brethren from (he South ;" meant lo "hold on to 
the church whether the Assembly took action or not," 
and only wanted action because "public opinion," as 
some of them had the honesty, or the simplicity rather, 
to. acknowledge, demanded ft. 

Nothing was more manifest than that these poor 
creatures were whipped up to n most disagreeable dun- 
by the public sentiment which the aboli 1 ionists had raised 
aroundthem. The earnest, straightforwardness of 
the rnfn from the South, with all their open advocacy 
of slavery, was not half so disagreeable to us, orsoin j'i- 
rious to the cause, es the contemptible diivelling of 
♦hese make-believe, dough-face pretenders to the char- 
acter of anti-slavery men. 

But as the calling of the roll progressed, a m w and 
belter set of men came forward good, hearty, earnest 
abolitionists from the far west; men whose hearts were 
in the eaus", and who advocated it, not because public 
opinion* rcrjujred it, but because it was right; 
who were, \V)t afraid to speak, and who were de- 
lermtora to be he.ird". Such men as Buahuell, Stevens, 
iLle, Dickey, and" others- of like staarqy. 

The speech's of th-sj men gave a new com] texii a , nnily 
to the Assembly, and turned the tide of feeling entirely I some time since, 
from the channel in which the efforts and Speeches of! When will the 



the slave-holders and 'heir abetters, out of doors and on 
the floor, had caused it to set T;.e haughty and dicta* 
torjal tone of the pro-slavery men was changed to one 
of supplication; the abolitionists assumed the aggressive, 
a' d it soon became manifest that anti-slavery was in the 
ascendent, and the sceptre had at last changed hands. 

We are only sorn that the new party in power did 
not make a better use of their victory. Thev might, if 
they had chosen, &. if they had not such false fc injuri- 
ous notions »f concession for the sake of unity, might 
have passed a much more unexcepdple declaration than 
that of Dr. Duffieid. There are things in that docu- 
ment which should never have had the sanction of then- 
vote, and which no fancied advantage for the present, 
or prospect ofamendmen in the future, should have in- 
duced them to-eonsert to. 

Still it is an anti-slavery triumph. The very discus- 
ion, independent of itsresult, was a triumph. The daily 
papers, speak of ihe "sublime spectacle." of a large ec- 
clesiastical body discussing for eight consecutive days 
Jie most exciting topic of the times, with a'l decorum 
and Christian courtesv. But what has it been that has 
brought about this "sublime spectacle?" it lias been 
the patient, persevering, truth-breathing spiris of abo- 
litionism. 

A little while ago a man jeoparded his personal safe- 
ty by publicly advocating in this city and other parts ot 
the country, the cause of immediate emancipation. 

Now a large ecclesiastical body can debate the sub- 
ject for a week together, without the least disorder; 
some of its members can even advocate the doctrine, 
not because they belicv in it, bu' because "public sen- 
timent" requires it; and as the result of th« discusion, 
t e whole body can take ground, which, though excep- 
lionably conservative now, at the timeallud< d to would 
have been considered highly ultra and fanatical. 

It is a'riumph too when the necessity of protesting is 
put upon tb.e slaveholders. Hitherto all the protests 
.n such cases have come from the abolitionists. The 
tablesare now turned, and the slaveholders and their 
allies are put on the defensive. These are al' cheering 
signs, in which we see the glorious onward progress of 
the cause. 

But there is \ great deal yet to be done in the New 
School Presbvterian church. The rev lations made 
on that floor of the Assembly while they show the 
growing power of the Anti-Slavery spirit in that body, 
exhibit also the extensive and shocking prevalence of 
its opposite. The church is yet full of corruption and 
uficle;.nnes. The testimony of its representatives on 
that floor prove that there are multitudes of ministers, 
elders, and people, in its pulpits, and wwhin its pale, 
who aTe strangers to the spirit, or wilfully disobedi- 
ent to the teachings of the Gosp- 1. The church is 
full of slaveholder's of the south , and false pretendei s to 
Anti-Slavery at the north. The former should be al- 
lowed no rest till they either manumit their -laves or 
leave the church; and the latter should be unmasked, 
that the community and the cause may be protected 
from their hypocrisy, and they themselves be brought 
to repentance. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOON TON, JULY 14, 1846. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanitv withers. Keep. 



From the Liberty Stamford. 
GENERAL SCOTT.— A portion of the Northern 
Wl%s are evidently trying to puff Gen. Scott into pop- 
ularity. Slavery has already decided that he can nev- 
er be President. It will not permit him to fight for 
popular favor. Hear the New Orleans Tropic. 

"We have one remark to make. This entire city & 
State, and we presume the whole South, with perhaps 
few exceptions, are firniU opposed to any order of the 
government which m--y place Gen. Scett in command 
over the Army of occupation. Such a step would be a 
direct insult, an inexpiable outrage, to the Veteran and 
brave and well tried Gaines and the immortal Taylor.* 



(ir^Aboltion proved to be so much more popular than 
was anticipated in the New School General Assembly, 
we would not wonder if aonie ministers huriied home 
to pray for the slave. 



THE CELEBRATION ON THE FOURTH 
IN BOON TON. 

We had a grand celebration in Boonton one of the 
right sort, the Slave was remembered as might be ex- 
pected with such men to speak as Luther Lee & Lewis 
Tappaju ofN'W York. The day was unfavourable be- 
ing quite wet and rainy some of the time which kept 
many away. But we had a good gathering. The 
Sunday Schools and citizens formed a procession, and 
with a Band of Music marched through the Village 
with Temperance and Sunday Scfccol Banners. One 
Liberty Banner wastseen in the procession which at- 
tracted some attention. It was a plane white Banner 

ith the following motto on in large letters. 

"Liberty for the Slave" 

and underneath 

"Wo unto him that.buildeth his house by unright- 
eousness and his chambers by wrong, that useth his 
neighbors service vi ihout -wages and giveth him not for 
his work." 

The weather looked rainy and the giovc wag aband- 
oned for the Presbyterion Church, where short in- 
teresting addresses were made by Messers Hearon, 

Luther Lee and Lewis Tappan, after which the 
meeting adjourned for diDuer. 

At 3 oclock P. M. the weather looking rainy the 
meeting was opened again in the Presbvterian Church 
and after singing and prayer by Mr. Moranof Madison 
Mr. Magie of Dover made some very appr pWate re- 
marks to the children, and the meeting was then addres- 
sed by Messrs Luther Lee & Lewis Tappan of New 
York in a very masterly manner on the subject of slave- 
ry. The exercises were interspersed with singing of 
Liberty Odes. Mr. Lee demonstrated in a powerful 
manner the wrongfulness of s'avery, and Mr Tappan 
showed plainly that the love of impartial liberty was 
fast losing ground in the Country until the Abolition- 
ists began the agitation of the subject. The meeting 
then adjourned. 

On the Sabbath Mr Lee preached! an excel'f n! 
course on the subject of Mr. Torry's imprisonment ar ; 
death, and Mr. Tappan gave a very interesting B£ 
count of the Mendi Mission. 

Time or space will not permit lis to extend remarks 
on these exercises. 

Mr Lee'* is the Editor of the True Wesleyan Paper 
which we recommend to all and Methodists in particu- 
lar as a most interesting and useful paper 

THE MEXIC AN WAR AND THE WHIGS. 

The course the whigs are pursuing on this war ques- 
tion completely annihilates all their claims to the char- 
acter of an anti-Texas and anti-slavery party- Yet 
mey have the impudence to claim for themselves the 
on'y true embodiment of such a jinny. Th> w hig 
Press generally, (we know of but one exception and 
tfirat is the Tribune,) is in fo»-the Mexican war, an<igo 
with the slave holders for the extension of slave territory 
when they plainly see they are reaching for Kay i, Cu- 
ba, California and the Halls i f Montezuma. 



C. M. ( lay has gone to Mexico, a son of II. ; .'b ■• 
^Daniel Weft-ter states, that the expenses of thel- has . tbere,as»n of lb& » big Senator from Kentucky 
vernmeru are half a million of dollars n day. — This | . 



would be about ]£2 millions a year. Our.exp nses un- 
der the Administration of J. (i Adams was about lo 
millions of dollars pev annum. Who \ ays all this? 

A strong Protest against Atr.tri>:>t< fclf.v»«j J r> 1" 
signeJ and publish, d l.\ 3tC. Univt rsalist Cler.-yrr.en 
in the U. S., because it is irreconsiltabb with Chrisii- 



has gone, and so also goes a son of Daniel Webster. 
1 he Newark Daily Advertiser, the whig embodiment 
in New Jersey j, talks ir.cst < xultisgry 6i the depreda- 
tions etu'mitttd b\ our iiooj s in IfhxiC". In short 
ii:< re i.-. n • end to whig devotion' and ready zeal in. and 
ei ( ouia«.tm< ni /<r, tljis infemoiis war. W< < xyce: 
u ill S' c.n I e ( -al!,r« m < n 



W. 

i t e!it:<. aists If 



ihev 
with 



1'he Unitarian Tvlinistcrs l ave done the same j t h< mas the w'y true gn-uinc- fc- consistent anu : sj:t\cry 



' -T irtl rdox.V ps a 1 < dv C.n the fame. 



parly in the world, ai.d no tlcuot 
( «iii"(.ns. ol the s><gin«.iv i<:r.(v 



U all 



POE T'S COItNE it 



From the Regeneator. 
THE SONG OF THE S \Y 0 11 D. 

(sUCGESTEP BY THE SONG OF Tlt'E BHIRf) 

Weary, and wounded, andjpvvora, 

vVounded, and ready to die, 
A sioldier they lei'l, all_alcaie and forlorn, 

On the field of the battle to lie. 
The dead md the dying alone 

Oouid their present* and pity afford, 
Whilst, with a s.>d and terrible tone, 

He sang the song of the swm d. 

Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! 

Though a thousand fathers die; 
fight ! Fight ! Fight ! 

Though ihousands of es'ndren ctyr 
Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! 

WhirstjnjtheiS and wives lament; 
Fight ! ; Figlit ! Fight! 

Whilst millions of money are spent. 

Fight! fight! fight! 

Should the cause ''be foul or fair ; 
Though all that's gained is an empty name, 

And a tax too great to bear; 
An empty name and a paltry fame, 

And thousands lying dead; 
Whilst every glorioas vistory 

Must raise the price of bread. 

War f war ! war ! 

Fire and famine and sword; 
Desolate fields, and desolate town9 f 

And thousands scattered abroad, 
With never a home, and never a shed; 

Whilst kingdoms p rfsh and fall, 
And hundreds of thousands are lying dead, 

And — all for nothing at all. 

Ah ! whv should such mortals as I, 

Kill those whom they never could hate? 
'Tis obey your commander or die; 

'Tis the law of the sword and the state. 
For we are the veriest slaves 

That ever had their birth; 
For to please the whim of a tyrant's will, 

Is. all our use upon earth. 

War ! war ! war / 

Musket, and powder, and ball: 
Ah.' what do we figh< so for? 

Ah.' why have we battles at all? 
3 is justice must be done they 6ay, 

The nations honor to keep; 
Alas.' that justice is so dear, 

And human life so cheap. 

'Tis, Oli! that a Christian land — 

A professedly Christian state, 
Should thus despise that high command — 

So useful and so great — 
Delivered by Christ himself on earth, 

Our constant guide to be; 
To "love our neighbors as ourselves, 

And bless our enemy." 

War.' war.' war.' 

Misery, murder, and crime, 
Are all the blessings I've seen in thee 

From my youth to the present time; 
Misery, murder, <md crime — 

Crime, misery, murder, and woe: 
Ah.' would I had known in my younger days 

A tenth part of what I now know. 

Ah! had I but known in my happier clay a. — 

Id my hours of boyish glee— 
i tent!) of the horrors and crime of war — 

A tithe of its iniseiy — > 
1 now had been joining a happy band 

Of witVand children d/. ar, 
\nd I had died in my native land. 

Tnstr-nd of riving Jwre* 



And many a long, long d»'v of wop, 

And sleepless nights nntold, 
And drenching ranf, and drifting snow, 

Ai'd weariness, famine, and told; 
And worn-out limbs, and aching heart 

And grief too great to tell, 
And bleeding wound, and piercing ssniut, 

Hud I escaped full well. 

Bnt though, with such -sorrow and woe, 

Thy progress must always be bound;. 
Ah.' would that it were onTy below 

That the fruits of thy curso could be found": 
. But war! war.' war.' 

From all that I ever cot*ld see, 
Full many a' groan, in the future world, 

Musi be traced I fear to the. 

W ; ; rv, and wounded, and worn — 

Wounded and ready to die, 
A soldier they ieft, all alone and forlorn, 

On the field of the battle to lie. 
The dead and the dying alone 

Could their presence and pity affojd; 
Whilst thus, with a sftd and terrible tone, 
(Oh.' would that these truths were more perfect- 
ly known,) 

He sang the song of the sword. 

Temperance Record. 



i (a5--"J6hn, what ure you about? "Trying to make a 
fire." "Dunce ! you can't make afire out of moon- 

| shine." John staggered to bed, and declared that rum 
should never dece ive him again. 

" I wish you would not smoke cigars," said a plump 

little hiack-ey.-d girl to her lover. "Why not 1 smoke 
as well as yonr chimney ?" Because chimneys don't 
smoke when they Sre in good order.'' He has quit sme- 

kine'. 



ifo-Ti.e mayor of Albany has granted more than 200 li- 
censes for the sale of intoxicating liqors in spite of the 
law against granting such licenses the vote being more 
than 2 to 1 for no license in that city 

The people are indignant and public meetings are 
held, Committees appointed, and they are determined 
to carry it to the extent of the law. The probability is 
that the mayor has got into serious difficulty, and we 
expect the ; oeple to gain a complete victory. The man- 
ure lorers of drink drunkards find it hard io give 
up their infamousbusiness. 



Temperance in Prison. — The prisoners in the Char- 
1 stown prison have adopted the following pledge: 

"We, the inmates of the Mass. State Prison, do here- 
by solemnly promise, in the name of God, and by his 
help, to abstain from the use of intoxicating drinks to 
the end ofiife," — Indana Freeman. 

From the single port of Boston there has been sent 
out to heathen lands 5,180,000 ga'lons of Alcoholic 
poison. The number of Bib'es sent has not been cor- 
rectly asertained; but the amount is supposed to be in 
proportion of one copy to a thousand hogsheads. 

Rhode Island licenses two taverns to sell spirits only 
in two towns, Foster and West Green wich; and in Pro- 
vidence six stores are licensed to sell by the quart, not 
to be drunk on the premis- s.— Suj. of Liberty. 

TheT mperance pledge lately designated a bar room 
as a slaughter house. How odd! He might as well 
call the keeper of such a place, butcher. Prov. Herald. 

So he should; for he "aint nothing else '' Norfolk 
Democrat. 

Fifty indictments have been found* against vari- 
ous tavern keepers in Brooklin, for violations of the li- 
cense law. They have severally give bail, and rai- 
sed a sufficient sum of money to test the validity of the 
law. — Siq. of Lib, 

RAISING THE DEVIL. 

<>4 : 7 

A miserable s ave of the- b >ttle, on meeting Col. 
I Wa lace,ihc reformed drunkard ami temperance leclur- 
! er, addressed him thus, "Well Col., !■ hear yon can 
! raise the devil." "Yes," replied the Col., and with 
; his foot sent the topers basket, containing a jug of rum, 
ten feet above his head. 



EIGHT DOLLARS A DAY, AiSD EIGHT 
DOLLARS A MONTH. 

Our northern dough face Represenalives in Congress, 
not excepting even our former most zealous anti-Texas 
and an£i-s!avery v higs, can set, secure from all harm 
with eight dollars a day and vote for a war for the ex- 
tension of slavery, and give northern laborers eight dol- 
lars a month to go to MexicD among the miasms of that 
climate to be shot at, with southern men for officers un- 
der 1-i.rgc salaries; all for slavery. The negro es sro 
not the only slaves owned by the Sonth. How loug 
shall these things continue? 



VERY HONFST. 



Some whig editors are in ecstacies because, tkeysay, 
New Hamp>hire has sent "a good whig" to the Senate 
of the U. S. They know better. Mr. Cillcy is a ^ -d 
Liberty man and has be- n a long time. He has public- 
ly renounced the whig Party. Mr. Hale has left the 
Democrats and they hav e renounced him; he Aso is ap- 
pointed Senator for six years. New Hampshire has 
uow two staunch abolitionists in the U. S. Senate. 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protestant 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale at this office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Chrtrch in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office of 
the Freeman, Boonlon, N. J. 



LIBERTY MINSTREL. 

A few copies of Clark's Libeity Minstrel are for 

sa'e at thU offi c 

This is superior to any thiug df the kind we h»ve 
seen, and sh>ud be hit e possession of every one that 
loves nood music, and loves to make a^ood. use of it. 
P>iee, 44 cents. 



Ji /onlon Hashington Jcvipauncc La>cv- 
ulent Society, — meets every Monday eve- 
ning in ihe Free Church. 1 nomas ltiley 
President, Marcus Evarls Secretary. 

<&-.THE UNION MISSIONARY. — This monthly 
paper published at No. 5 Spruce Street N. Y., is the 
Organ of the Union Missionary Soriet- , a Society 
that refuses donations from S'aveho ders or to employ 
Slaveholders in missionary operations It is an ex* 
ceedingly interesting paper, fi led with int- resting ac- 
counts of the free missionary operations in Can 'da, Af- 
rica. Sandwich Islands &c. All those who have ai*y 
interest in such missions, will J^sel richly rewarded by 
patr&nizi g that paper. 

Lewis Tappan is Treasurer ofthe V. M. Society and 
will be happy ta receive doitiili< ns ot anv sort, except 
nuchas- is wrong from (ho unpaid ' oi! of lh« Slave. 






\ OL. 2. 



BOOXT09T AUGUST, 14* 1846, 



NO. io. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BR PUBLISHED fty>NTIILY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
liponton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

T E R M S. 



professor behind the bashes c ost- by, through which 

they could easily watch the laborer, and sec whatever 

yonder or joy he might express. The poor man 

soon finisheid his work and came across the field to the 

path ,where he had left his coat ami shoes. — While he 

put on his cost, he slipped one foot into one of his shoes 

, but feeling something hard, he stooped .down and found 
Kindle conv 25. cents per annum, ortor i2. numbers ", u "* 1'. ' , , • 

_ => . lJ ;a dollar. Astonishment and wonder were seen in his 



JO. copies to one addfess for faffO dollars 
AH communications must be post paid 



c. ex.* i* er the .tmjexicaj%" iiwa. 

From the Signal of Liberty 

Mr. Clay anticipated this war two or three years 
since. When in Ann Arbor, in 1844, he told us that he 
considered himself as brave as the generality of men; 
but to take up arms against Mexico for the propagation 
of eternal Slavery iu Texas, according to the project 
then pending, required a kind of courage he did not pos- 
sess. An enterprize of that nature was one on which 
we could not ask tjie blessing of the God of Heaven. 
In his speech in the Tremont Temple at Boston, 
Sept. 19,' 1844, Mr. Clay said: 

"We trample upon the most solemn tre;ity be- 
tween Mexico and the United States, and rush over 
the Constitution, To war in this fiendish propaoanp- 
;sm; and in such a war, according to the laws of nations, 
it is not only the right, but the boundrn dtity of all 
Christendom to come in to the help of Mexico, and re- 
duce us to a sense of common justice. And in such a 
when the banner of 1776, 'right against might,' 
borne by us, is now borne by them — when I shall be cat- 
fed tpon to rally lo the standard ofmy country, inscribed 
with 'eternal slavery,' I am bold in the avowal t(iat 
thauc/h I profess tc be as brave as mosi wen, I have no 
heart for such a contest — I am a coward in supu a 
cause! On our own soil, in defence of our own rights, 
I d< fy the world in arms — but in such a cause as this, if 
the Bible be true } ice cannot succeed; if history be not a 
Uible, we cann t hold a permanent conquest; 'ihey who 
Jive by the sword, shall perish by the sword,' and at all 
times dominion based upon unjust, conquest, has fallen 
to sudden ruin and ultimate retributive desolation! 

This Republic must stand upon justice, a high moral 
sentiment, or else it cannot stand at all." 

Wi need not add one word more. — This self con- 
demnation is far more pointed and emphatic than any 
thing we could write. We wil I , however, just say, that 
Cassius was not "caHed on' 1 to rally for "eternal slave- 
ry," but VOLUNTEERED, "to urtr in this fiendish jro- 
pacandibm!" 



! countenance; he gazed upon the dollar, turned it around 
and looked again and agsin, then he looked around him 
on all sides, but could see no one. Now he put the 
money in his pocket, and proceeded to put on the other 
shoe; but how great was his astonishment when he found 
the other dollar / His feeling* overcame him; he foil 
upon bjs knees, looked up to heaven and uttered 
aloud a lervent thanksgiving in which, he spoke of his 
wife sick and helpless, and his children w ithout bread 
whom this timely bounty from an unknown ha"d 
would save from perishing; 

The young man stood there deeply affected, and tears 
filled his eyes. 

"Now," said the professor, ''are you not much bet- 
ter pleased than if you had played your intended trick?" 

i'O dearest Sir," answered tin youth," you have 
taught me a Jesson now Jhai I will never forget. I feel 
now the truth of the words of which I never before 
understood, "it is better >o give than to reiceive." 
We should never approach the poor bu.t with the wish 
to do them gpod. Ex. Faper. 



The Bible a Sufifaie&i Creed. 

The following is an extract of a discourse delivered 
ai the dedication of a Presbyterian Church at Fort 
Wayne, Indiana by Charles Beecher, a son of Dr. 
Beecher. We copy from the PuUiey Magazine 

The creed system is now exerting upon the clergy of 
the Protestant churches, a secret, unsuspected, but tre- 
mendous power against the Bible — a power of fear. Yes, 
while it professes t^ venerate and d'f nd the Bible, it is 
virtually undermining it. — That is always Satan 'sway. 
He revived pagan worship in the midst of men who 
were fierce against it. How? He cheated them.' He 
baptized it. They thought it was pious. So we. Busy 
in fighting Rome, wide awake to see 'hat she does not 
snatch our Bibles and burn them, we are yet letting hitn 
cheat us out of them in a new way, a pious way. We 

do not see him. 

Do you ask me to explain this mystery? Reflect a 
moment. Who are our Bratestant ministry.' How 
are they ushered on the stage? They generally go from 
the bosom of the family to college, without seeing the 
world atall. There the} are secluded for four year-*. 
.1 Pir^SArT SVMJRH1SE, which seem in after-life like an Elysian dream. Thence 

A young man, of eighteen or twenty a student in a [they jtepdirectiy into the Theological Seminary; thence^ 

after three \-ars more seclusion, into the pulpit. 



university, took a walk one day w ith a professor who 
was commonly called the student's friend, such was his 
kindness to the vouag. men, whose office it was to 
instruct. VVhilethev were now waking together, and 
the professor was spiking} to lend the conversation to 
grave subjects, they saw a pair of aid shoes Jying in 
the path, which they supposed to belong to a poor man 
who was at work in the field close by and who had 
nearly finished his day's work. 



"Let us play the man a trick: we w ill hide his shoe*, 
and conceal Ourselves behind those bushes, and watch 
to see his perplexity when he cwftfjfjt fmd them.'.' My 



Now, what sort qfan ordeal is prepared for 
them in society? i. e. religiout society, for they know 
no other. Let us see. 

The religious world has what is called a public senti- 
pai at of its own; and tnis is formed chiefly by the grea 
evangelical denominations. Other denominations are 
owing to their paucity of numbers, le;s perceived. The 
first fact is, that by one or the other of these denomina- 



The yoimg student turned to the professor, saying- Hions the young candidate is to be licensed; for public 



senfjmeut has settled, that an unlicensed preacher is no 
preacher at all. He must have license, then: all his, 
hones centre on that. But there is not one of these 

'V , < ' V\.r "V .«* '* !• 1_ 1 ,< 



dear friend," answered prof., 'we must never amuse I Krcat evangelical denominations from which he can get 
purselye&cU th^c expense of die poor. But yon are rich | Hcen.se, unless he will subscribe the creed of that denoni- 
ond you may give vour^-lf a much greater pleasure by j inatipn. In other » ords, tpp Piotestent evangelical de- j 
mean? pfrthfs poor man.— Put a dollar ifilo each shoe, (nominations have so tied up one another's hands, and | 
■Bd then wo will hide ourselves.' |*f* own, that ln-t V .-ca then, all, a rrfan cannot become , 

The student did so, and then placed himself with the la preacher at all, any where, without accepting some I 



hook beside the Bible. * * * 

For daring to say, ' I do not receive your creed as 
containing the system of doctrine contained in the Bible;' 
for daring 'to say what God has -said, 'With that Bible 
alone I am perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good 
works;' — for repeating and holding on upon this declar- 
ation of God, he falls a spiritual martyr. And is not the 
Protestant church apostate? Oh, remember, the final 
form of the apostacy shall rise, not by Rome's aggressive 
march; not by the Pope's long arm, outstretched io 
snatch our Bible; not by crosses, processions, baubles. 

We understand all that. Aposiacy never conies on 
the. outside. It dceelopes. It is an apostasy that will 
spring into life within us; an apostacy that shall martyr 
a man who believes his Bible ever so holilv; yea, who 
may even belie-, e what the creed contains, but who may 
happen to agree with the Westminister Assembly, that, 
proposed as a test, it is aa ynyvarentable imposition ! 
rhai is the apostacy we have to fear; and is it not alrea- 
dy formed? 

Accept the Bib'e and the book, and you may put 
your own private construction on both, as every one 
does. Accept the Bible, and put your own private 
construction op that — the great paw of the beast is on 
you. This is w hat I call taking the Bible out of the 
hands of the ministry. 

There is nothing imaginary in the statement thai the 
Creed-Power is now begining to prohibit the Bll>k,as 
really as Rome did, though in a subtler way. During 
the whole course of seven years' siudy, the Protestant 
candidate for the ministry sees before him an authorized 
statement, spiked down and stereotyped, of what he 
must find in the Bible, or be martyed. And does any 
one, acquainted with human nature, need be told that 
he studies undpr a tremendous jiresnre of motive? Tc 
that freedom of opinion ?=sr-Hhe liberty wherewith Christ 
maketh free 7 Rome would have given that. Ev^ry 
one of her clergy might have studied the Rible to find 
there the Prontifical creed on pain of death. Was that 
liberty? 

Hence tsav, that liberty of opinion in our Theolog- 
ical Seminaries, is a mere form. — To say nothing of 
the thumb-screw of criticism, by which every original 
mir.d is tortured into negitive propriety, the whole 
beasted liberty of the student consists io a choice of 
cnains — a choice of handcuffs — whether he will wear 
the Presbyterian handcuff, or the Methodist, Baptist, 
Episcopal or other evangelical handcuff. Hence it has 
secretly come to pass that the ministry themselves dare 
not study their Bibles. Large portions thereof are sel- 
dom touched; It lies useless lumber. Or if they do 
study and search, they dare not show their people what 
Ihey find there. There is something criminal in saying 
any thi;g new It is shocking to utter word? that have 
not the mould of age upon them. For through the 
ministry the same spirit has been conducted to the peo- 
ple. The same penalties hang oyer them. The de- 
nomination? are so nearly balanced, the strife for pow- 
er is so keen between them, thatevery fanci-d departure 
from the creed is. seized to make political capita! , as re- 
ally as in any political campaign. House.-, must be built; 
salaries must be raised. This requires wealth. Wealth 
requires numbers and patronage This creates a servile 
dread of novelty, for every thing that another paty can 
get hold of, strikes at the gold. Therefore, the people 
watch their minister, and the minister is afraid of the peo- 
ple For if he studies mdl pendently, if he goes outside 
of the hook, if he-slips the handcuff, the people tremble 
— it w ill not ph ase — the opposition will seize it — wc 
shall be unpopu ar — we shall not succeed/ 

Thus are the ministry of the Fvangtdical, protestant 
denominations, not only formed all the way up, under s 
trenwfidous pressure of merely human fear, but they live 
and move, and breathe, in q state cf tlungs radi«yf> coi 



ut/\ ml appealing w'V«'f o ••very " iis ' r 1 

their nature, to hush up the tru h, and bow 



•nil ol hi - gr 



a 



c Ml, to w ii:<: 



Yi\ ni the Anti-Slavery 



the knee 



.an u< 



to the power of apostacyt 
Dim: , do*? every on : nw and then see that thing 



meat oi me toe 

i in hi ; a ad ia.v..i 0 iu.: on 
I ni : v.:ry uwcii MUMUStedj ie-the uti*80< 
i ip-rc the sics. inairi io.s u in- eyes, a d jay ion a 'short i 

r» nmraiiv t ' j another uauio ior progression; anu perpetual pe< greosivii 



ia all a- 

lUUlCl 



Oi the w oriel, 
(.at testacies. 



jroat ruioi'Uib have had to 
••Comeouteiism'' to ouiy 



iTtcon- 



I nine; when reviviug, »»•.• resutm d in. ahechng i 



going wron*. W:th Sgtii Otis eve.- true- h .. u , 

f.iss ilmt rottenness is somewhere, but ah, U is hopeless ; ntc . nue(J . llUO ^ 0 
of reform. We^ali pass on, and the tide rolls dm, n (o ! of ijUlniU 

iNigU. . ! rescued mo Irum inevitable uegUu 

Was not this the way things went with Rome? Are hi^ h^owedr ' '-Ommy hostile 
we not liveinphor life over again/ And w i at «?.<» ' ? ' ! ,ng mar 

A Work. 



wo rn.yse.-li a 0 ..m, 1 totohu what my 
victim bad been prmnpteid to >io, by 
Uty ami gratitude, anu thai he had 
Sh'aji 1 Hi 
exclaimed the 

wile, " ciiunl not have persevered" in 
see just ahead? Another Getn-rai Council! A W orio | j OUi - wicked'purpbse-^-yon neie.i could have sent the 
Evsngelical Alliance and OiftifMfsal- man ih'-b slavery wr.o had preserved your 136. ' "Xes 

i'cofrid! i u a." replied me Ihisband', "co d blooded 



IS UiC . 
ml L«5 



u » nuuii law oi aii U1U.L.0 iVaicii Ita.o iiit.t.on, 



they 



lOulliOlU 



ill illeli Up » are 



Convention.' 
„ree<l ! 



The Legitimate iv#(#?.<> of Slavery. 

Lrom the A. S. Record. 
THE DEATH BED CUN 1< EbbiON Or A 
SLAVE TAKER. 

The following was the confession of a man on hisd ;atl 
bed, who had for some years gained a disgrace, u I 
subsistence in Philadelphia, by catching slaves who had 
mad' their escape, and restoring them to their master. 
It was related by a person who was caliefi upon on 
evciiu.', and so icited to attend, by the Slav takers wite, 
wiio had nerseii only an;* eel the day oe.ore, having 
been for seme years s parated fr m her husband. 1 n 
account is taken from "Mott s Anecdotes of Persons ol 
Color. 5 ' 

"/.mong other transactions of that period, was the 
atpre tension of a man caiied .lames, the recollection, 
oi winch torments ,me inexpiessidiy. He Baa 
belonged to the estaie oi Air. K., of A bema. . 
county. At the dealt of Mr. K., James-pafesed into 
the bands. of '.hose w;Ho treafe.d l.im very Hi, and he 
rar. away. \N hen 1 hrst fell m with him he lived on a 
small lot in ISew Jersey, with his v\ i|\ , a free woman , 

• whom he hadmairitd in Virginia, and contrived to 
bih igt w ith htri, and Vhree cl.iidien. After losifig my 
way.~aml fravf ili'ng fualu hcurs t-bT ot, 1 came to hi;. 
X i'^TeLamtation late at night. He mm d me very 
kindly, gave m- food, and l is. owhhed, < Idle himseil 
a?id his wife occupied chairs by th- fire; and in thj 
morning he- walked with me several m'tcp, to ptil rne iii 
the right way: it was in vain ?ra' 1 offered him a sn % 
reward — in- would not tak- it. Months had pass - 
away, when by chaucp my eyes saw an ldadveu • n, .. 
ci'ering a large reward for his spprchctision. 1 knew a- 
c ce it was James, for 1 had ol-si-: v«-d a ivtnaiknbtc scal- 
er, his chin, v hich was rnenlioued in the descripti'.-n c ... 
him. Hard as my heart then was, and cai'.ous'io every 
feeling of humanity, I could uot help shuddering ai 
the thought of betraying my kind friend; but the 
pfrosp^ct of gain soon made my decision. I wrote to 
his ifeasteij and received his jipswi r. Ail things were 
I i-d, and I was to have fe' j, d dais more than the 
sum mentioned in the ftdveriMMAnewf . . I went alone 
agajii to his quiet retreat; it was in winter, die wcatlvi 
hud been piercing cold, and the river Lelawaie was 
closed. I arrived at early twilight. How bitter; have 
my thoughts been since, wk n i have recollected the 
hi ! sst satisfaction thai gleamed i-> his sable countenance 
wned I approached! During die evening, I pr posed to 
him a removal into Penns Ivaru'a; 1 told inm I had a f w 
acres of tapd, suitable for a garden, aud a comfortable 
dwelling house, in the neighborhood of the city j and 
that rrcoltficfin^ his form -r kmdness to m< . 1 hade in 
to persuade him to occupy 'he one find ifiipV?ve :.. 
other, for which 1 could a' ; ordJo gi\e him high wage..- 
The poor ma ; a^r ed to accompany me the next day 
to look at the premises: and if (hey pleased hirn.tO lak 
possession of them on tiie first f April. Early iri tfte 1 
mor ing, 1 was awak -d by preplava'ltons fOi* breakfasd; 
and they were dehghtrfl »vith my taking so mndh noiice 
of them ns I did, and uiih iny gratitude for the services 
thev had ien<U-i-ci! me. The whole family v,eie 

* cheerful. We parted with light hearts James and i 
.■reached the river m due lime, and entered on the ice. 

Hitherto, we had vvif.krd sine by .vide, but now he fell a 
little behind me, and we hud proceeded hui a 'i:.e vva-, , 



I Villain Uiut 1 was.' Ti.e very uay which vuncs»ed my 
riaugev .n«u my ueiive.y, sa.% m^ assist in Di.iUing, 
ci.it.i.iiig na.iu aael foot, ;.<.n Id Wfeotr) i was mueoTeu 
i'-ir.i/iy wociu-ilfss hie! cseptoatofl troin his wuu and 
cuiiurdn, and treetiiom, h> fi ; >...'ted without uttering a 
smgh word One t> . auu Oaat ciuy, r»e suiiered his eye 
;^ u'.vt-i. tW an lUflOiiit on miii , wxuen sunk before their 
Hey i Cdui loiget niuv agnizing aud uespatri ig 
..,aiit.t; it i»aaii.s me la nioyud.tj.ighl; it i& v«uli rne in 

UUi U^CpeSl b.iaUCS i ll.giit t ' 

Here tne black servant, ot ihe p rsou to whom tiiis 
account was given. Uou fisiu up, and stood behind his 
..taster, li.s eyes glistening v» .ui i ar& iliat uickled down 
bis. ebon cneeks,when u.c >.tK mans eyes lighting upon 
nim,hc eiciaimed m ihe extremity oi anguish," James 
.a tu re ,oei.!uu )> u Mrjitc is come to tonnen. me 
aireacy.' iaivi him away; take him away.' "he repealed 
oiow .j ,anu sunk into a siUmbrf troin winch he never 
.tvv oii.e:''' 



Ei»r tiie Freeman.- 

PERSONAL REfi©RM. 

Of all reforms that are wanted, the most needful as 
wen as the most beaul lui, is Personal Reiorm. Le; 

.aeii one say to himst-ii, "what is there that I can do 
oetter lhau 1 no-.T U"? Iu what particular caii I be most 
easily improved-' Can i become purer in any of my 
u.ibits? Can give up some worthless of injurious 
.ntiig, .son, .' bad j.i^c ice, which so far from doing me 

e good, only abuses my BfeGj and keeps dovnmy 

It is possible "ha* every one could finds, me answers 
to .h. s pi siions, whicii it followed up. by sui'able 
:ojidup? "Ugh makt us ait better neighbors, better 
members < f the family, and happier iu ours Ives. 

L 



JFi r ibeits-Cit lender t'nr das J'aftr 18 IT. 

(LIBERTY ' ALM AiS AC FOR THE YEAR 1847) 

A German Quarto Almanac. Forty pages of the 
,ame . will ,copiain "AM«AUD RESS. TO THE GER- 
MAIN'SlN TEETJISiTEl) STATES Ui\ THE A- 
B0L1T10N OF SLAVERY" written at the sugges- 
.ion of G. W, Altxui.iier, a well known friend of Lon- 
.lon, by VV. F. O.ar ove, Dociejr of Philosophy a! 
Frankfurt, one. of the best writers of Germany. This 

retuisc shows in vt-ry impressive and conviooive langu- 
che evils, wrongs, ane dangers of slavery, li in an ap- 
peal to tiie n 1 and understanding of a very numerou . 
class of oui le.ilovv--oiUze.pSf and if extensively disttib- 

•dauio g -iiem, c.iiniot iail to make, them die warmest 
.i. vocat^s ot th • aeoli.ion of b avcry. 

Thtre arc moie .nun: dree tiundred thousand Gernmn- 
Am^ricaq :o . a*--, in the middle, western and soulh-wcs- 
ti rn s( lies and Luritoru s of the Union, a large number 
oi v. hit. ii cguid anti ought to he reached, and gained to 
.ur saci.cd cause Ly an .id iquate distribution of this Al- 
inan c. 

C. L RADEMACIIER, 

No. 3i) North V Si., opposite Appletree 

Alley. 'Phikdclph: ...lone 24tfi 1846. 



m ore their strength, tii^ ai^it rapid UW>u uuvm.uu. or 
retrograde m- lioii wiii oc. i he HeaU suiooUl little a- 
C01U nas to uulst me siiCii in •. men it gtev. , aoe. tu.<t 
iliat siieii oeuiua. no Luattei i.ut> neat .:nut.tje it ui.va; 
lit — no liiatteriiow inucii oi tnc sweetest juices la tue 



l.tiu oeeli aOsoiOtu or c^.^. uetcu in ti,c 



p.. relit 

growing of mat sue-h. luut can oc no posstuie 
aviv aiicei.ieiii in tlic acoin aniguom, suoi t oi suaucling 
thoS.i loiig Clie.isiieU tics toeatttiiii,, >ut olu^.j ..t.^.ja.iU 

iuptuiiug Wit n u.ct rules oi acoii.snip, n:io....i e one 
iiali oi a lpisakLU shell hvio, auu a etuarier tii. re, tp ue 
in decayiek ua t .mtuis tor .uni.ti , anu tiiCtj oc 
dlssolVeU anu tinned into otiici" loili.s ol Ut>eluuit.Sia, to 
once tiiuic piouiotC piogit isit/ii. iNcitUic cot.ts not 
leeiUire lac iiistiipc acum to "stay in," ..clause oil ti»e 
others aie not y<_t iipc; neithui v>as it ever known u.at 
a young oaa couiu oc 0 ni to icei ihe expansion t/i uo 
g rminauug principle Witlu'u itseii, anu itiiia.ii ^uictin 
its own iiiae eneasiri.tin. it is tnc same vviui cveiy 
iivi g pliUe.^ie. " collie oui ,, auu live, or --stay in'' 
aau die — tins 18 inc uiuveisai iaw oi eyeity UtU'ig Ifinu i.t* 
life, i here can be no progression snort oi comitig.uat, 
oi" going Lcyoiif, ^wincn lb the same thing. j iins 
ruie is a iaw m tnc vcgctanic, the initucciuai anc mo 
moiai wonu. — vuttiuute lSidu>USH, 



Getting o. tier, but not nghtyct. 

COLORjl.^ K^KbE^TATiUiS iu the CHURCH, 
in the recent Convention ot tht Protestant Episcopal 
CHurch iu Pennsylvania, the Rev. Mr. ot< inmaue-a 
motion in substance, to repeal ihe rule w inch prcoiudeel 
colored clergymen uom scats iu the cove tioa, and 
their par ism s from sending il' t {.a. ions. Atiei some 
d. I«ate, tnequeoiiou » utken Ly orders, auu r> su.ied 
aslollovs: — Cicigy, oyes oii , noes 15j |-aiis. e» >\os 
2a, noes 30; divided 2. bo both orders not agreeing, 
the motion v, as lost. Ex. 1'aper. 



"I feel that religion cannot exisi certainly it cannot 
flourish— in the heart, without tne principle of nu- 
slavery existing the re with it . — borne religious men 
may not, indeed, exhibit much of it, on ucc. not of ihur 
.^norance of the . facts. Lnt 1 cannot see how a 
christian, with any amonui of knowledge of the 
condition, 6T the slaves, can withhold cither his miluene 
or hi6 vote, tor their liberation. And y et many ta.k of 
much feeling on the subj ct, who yet find no duty to do 
in relation to it. How strange tor republicans — how 
much more si range for christians." 
Yes — strange indeed — Let republicans and christians 
reflect upon it. Right /eeimg,nuQ right fAinJKn£,are . at 
worth a groat any farther than they result in ugut 
acting. Hangar Giuctte. 



Thinking is no u m \ Nor is the speaking our 

when i pereeiv. d die ice give, and I immediately v -nt j thoughts. In C urcu and State letmindbc free and 

down as for as nly arm£, which 1 stretched out, and -so the tognue left untied, as th- surest way confronting 
supported rhvs ill" for'sftrn - initrate^, until lam is inrew I error and establishing truths.— C. M. Clov. 



An authority not to be denied, once askea this im- 
portant question, "Know ye not tuat join bodies are 
temples of the Holy Ghost." Ly the ways in which 
most pi-0| le use their bodies, one v ould h .rdiy con- 
ceive they were conscious of the presence ol the Holy 
opirii there- L. 



Colored Govlrnor. — Governor Whitcomb, of 
Indiana, is so very swarthy, that on entering a chtirch 
where a cedored man was expected to pTeach, the 
preacher iu charge, w ho was then filli g the stand, 
calle d out for "that colored brother to come forward 
and close." — [Mvste ry. 



He who is always enquiring, 'what will people say?' 
w ill never give them an opportunity to say any great 

things about him. 



tbf maw .te^«ey 
FREEMAN. 

BDQNTGN, AUGUST 14, 1846. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanit. withers. Keep. 



Th? friends of liberty will perceive by a notice in an 
Oilvr column, -be s-nni -annua! meeting of the Siab So 
cie-y is apjvjln'ed to be hold at Newark en the 27th 
inst. This is short notice, but ihe cominitue could do 
no better^ navi g spent sorhe lime in making inquiries 
abo t other places, but by a little eifori on the paii . t 
those who should be v. i ling to cmb lhai effort it ca. ' 
be very wed published throughout the i>Utc in lime. 

We trust that our friends will lose no Lime ^n pujJlish- 
fh'g this m'eeag in puElie m< etings & in MCWS? A 
PERS, wherever it can be dene, and in ali o her po ■ • 
blc ways. 

There ar? ma y things that should make J^rs^ym c - 
fe« i ui usually int nested in the cause of freedom a 
this time. Our own skvesi are not yet free, and they 
are not like to be, until deaih sets :hem at liberty, u: 
less che freemen of New Jersey arouse from their ina 
tivit and do something. 

Our County i-> disgraced and humanity outraged b 
a mo»i infamous »a; commenced withou! any just prov- 
oca 'ion for ihe extension and perp tua.ion of slavery h 
this i ouniry at a cost of bait a million of d liars per day 
Is'e v jersey's part of this tax is abi-ut Tmlre thottsar.. 
dollars a day. Shali we submit in silence to ail t.hi- 
Shall we set in silence while the gnvernm nt ; s und^ 
the supreme control of slaveholders, who use it fo 
pebasepwpo.se .f making Slaver' perpetual? Sha • 
w-> submit to he thus disgraced, taxed and outraged !• 
every possible way and leave the slave to wear the ah 
ling chahis without an effort to have it otherwise? W 
may "ot be able to do much, but we. can do som» -thin? 
atle^st, we should be ab'e to say we made the effort 
w • unit d our • ffbrl .i tfa the thousands who aro labo 
ing in ties great cause. 



New Hampshire g«$a£.abca<l. 

The Legislature of this State has j • ■ u an act pro- 
hibiting utiv Judg" or Justice oi the peace in tha 1 stai; 
grauiing any' precept for the art* s- or delenti u ol an 
f gitive lave, also any sheriff deputy sheriff, constable 
jailer or other officer* of the state from arresting or u>. 
tairung or aiding to arrest or detain an_, such fugitive 
under a penal e. of im iiisonmi ni f -r not 1 ss than six 
■jc over ! welve months; or a line not exceeding one 
.ho is .nd nor less uiaii five numlred dollars, uf, ihe dis- 
cretion of ihe court. 



SHias.-.ic ©e» lis! 

It is stated by a cojresp^n it of the National Intel- 
ig-neei that u Feu was h hi i*» Uie Ci'.j of *'* usk 
~«m on the kite 4th of Julj , by a < »:«r d church, tormse 
funds to purchase ihdr ..:i:.::tcr from Slavery ! ! — Lib; 
Standard* 



Chare* f ■-. m i M*2 aiui *«13 

A Church in 1642. Plain pulpit-- clerk's desk un- 
,,.;: T -.-a.ii— rov;s of benches, with strips for the back 
k plain, simple looking ; sexton, wit&a bunch of keys 
,u his belt, Congregation RICH! ! a d POOR ! ' ! 



The Tqr'.ff. Greai ado is made all over the coun*r 
over the ae:ion of congress on the Tariff question. W 
Cave no reason find fault with that action, for it is 
only another item in the slaveholders policy, and we 
ha<"> heretofore sujfered them to do all the ruling, and 
wh' never th y have seemed to wa>'t a little h-dp, we 
we have, stood ready to d > thei' - bidding hike wjlljng 
slai es at, ail lim s and give that aid which they needed 
in ord- r to carry out their r.ef .rious schemes. But wbj 
so much ado because ;i man's coat, hat shoes, coache* 
tea and cofii-e are not sufficiently protected, while 
thr c millions of men, womtu and children have nc 
proteeuon a ail in our land; nothing said r done abou! 
except whai is done .o increase their number by extend- 
ing' slave territory; we are retdy to say a hearty amei) 
to the demand for men to rob Mexico by wobr.ee anii 
finu iheiri ail the mojney and other means requisite. As 
much as vie coudunu the sudden reduction of duties or> 
pi- imparted good-;, because in many cast s it lias been 
a b.vach • i faitb i<j many v,-ho have invr-sted 'heir ail 
in manufacturing business under an impii d. promise o' 
BroU c'tion. yel we do not ihink it the in- st import an i 
pu.-iness beior" the n lion. lr.<- efforts makit.g to pei- 
beiua e slavery by our government, is as much more 
Worthy of being looked into, as aiiaan is more vaiuab • 
tlian ins hat oi coat. 

Bu politicians want something to make capi'a! of and 
many w: 1 se;7;e upon the action of Congress on the Tar- 
Hi" ami comm»nce the business of 'ptuiic making, agitat. 
turr. mi n out ( >f em ioy, m-i make trouble v.iiere ihert 
need be non-. More than '.aU' tiie t'-onb! alter all 
wiy be caused by ihe panic maker*. Lei all men keen 
composod :jn>] jwrjue. the k busindjs si cadi I . aft'd w> 
|e!i-.-ve that the con'sequenccB Will not be so bau as is 
feared. 



-no distinction ! .' ! n-.-r partition 



itt? 



Fhe) assem 



a e for one cbject- - Lo uo-Jif their God. 

A Church in 1842 Splendidly cove ed pulpit. A 
arge orchestra #Mnp«^d of iwcntyfive singefs — the 
.Incioal once id by the e r. The floors carpeted- 
p&ws ! rici 'tiffed", c. thioned, and carpeted — brass 
pktpons — . ■ : , bound books. Sexton costly attirej- 
i:s name ■-. . a tin sign, e •.biazomd against the side ot 
the chure'i. dbngregation, sekct ! ! ate' well dr&s 
■?d— seated ifi ieirC rs y PEWS. The minis ti per- 
■'nnied ! ! with otto - of rose. I3r; : e with red ieaUiet 
tnd gilt letters. All splend -r all skowi NO POOR 

0 be seen, if seen, »'.i,ck avay in some obscure ! ! ! 
erner. The nrhi-s-er uims his discourse to suit his 
ongregationj.apd: ihey lavish their rnon<y up ->n him 

ind in builu'ng fine churches, v hile lie Poor ape 

1 1-asvld .' / And ilds tli y call h i-LlG ION .—Gcor^ e 

II. I\Ioi:da'.'. 0 



Mesmerism. A £ UOO Note last Oct; was placed wi/h 
, seated t-nw.-iopv.in Bsdi's Ba. k, Dublin and oii-red to 
lh\ Ciairvf>c thai would leM the number, date, ike. 
■ ithout breakieg thi ee e^pe. L was to stay ihere. 
six months, which hav< expired &6d he note is still 
the property of the original iwrieT no claaVoyant have- 
inB read ii It was announced as a a. 100 note, tiie rest 

> O 

w&s to be read by the ctairvoya.it. 

Quere? It ciu.rv.eea its can read any thing that isin- 
visible to a Datura! eye, couiu they not have reed that 
note. 



(s&.Ta- LIBERTY £ -.Lit is tne title of a new 

eekfv Lii . -: . j :api >rt «: a:, flock Island, Illinois 
•W. Watte". Editor sm& Publisher. it is ftiiiv 



to De a 
sfowiiii 



n<i promises 
Tiie cause is 



Afu;; .. .. save :et-' s lat tie bta ' massa" h«- knows 
anything about ;s 'fMassacbusfc.Us."™Gi». Enquirer. 

Jjs,ah8 the same darkc says that the worst "missis" 
iie ever saw', \< As -.he "I-.i ....... .. ;. '-■h'^i* , .'l't/Mr. 

(L'V'The TexauiS^n.-.torS; Hijiistbn and Husk have 
Jiffty. addr^Sbiu^ the s>ui»dK*a.ti-. ms ^ « is- si ii Society im 
i. hhao; iphiu. They speak of the U nelic;..! iafcors oi 
Jy .UiS-i.taaries in i'exas,*<>-*-' '"• 

We wonder it tnc s.uv. .< get any ol iliis boil sftl ? 

We. like to know where a tnan stands, ii th re h>- 
any tiling ni<:un and dc-ipic^t-le-) ii es-tli.- $owa.rdic« 
which slinks from respoiidsibiliues il »ugh- to usee t, and 
shirks dutite it should per) eim. --(.'. ili. Ghiy. 



Tise SK'VU ANN UA^Jpfi^TJhNG of the NEW 
JERSEY A Ntl SLA)" ERY SOCIETY will be IwJdin 

evvarki in thfi Clinton Street Church on Thursday 27. . »* 
August, inst. a', 10 o, clock A.M., ;meeiings lo.be 
continued in ihe afternoon and evening. Iheiiicnds o 
ht slave are all invited toaiund. 



aug. i2:.h. le4G. 



A H. Freeman Se,c. 



it is o o no ed that the German Almanac pub ■ 
lished at 30 North Forth S.r-.*- tPhilidelpia, asjadveitiscd 
in another colum will be piaced into the hancis cf every 
German in New Jersey. Let every abolition see 
.<) it, 'ha ever reader of the German language in hi' 
neighborhood ^jji? one of these » ithbut fail. We in- 
erid on I avfe some oi them for sale at the Free- 
man office in ikjonton. 



From Z.r.erly MinsJrol. 
t.'-i^ t*©K VOl'EiS'S MAG. 

Ai.- (( L cy Long." 

They knew hat 1 was poor, 

i id ;ue th. ugUt mat I was base ; 
They thought th a I'd en ure 

i :> oe. covered Lh d sgr .ee; 
Tee ti.ough ;ne of ibeii tribe, 

Whe oafi thy lucre u<-iit, 
S thev offered me a bribe 
For ju_v vote, boys! my vote ! 

O shame u| on i..y bet'ers, 
Wh ■ wo lu ray conscietnee btrt 
0u{ 1 il net wear tUen fetter^, ' 
Not 1, in..eeu, NOT I ! 

Mv vo e? It s not mine 

To o ■•. ii ti a - 1 will; 
To ca i, ilk pe rls, «o se ine, j 

Te thi se va. lowers in ill; 
L is y country's due, 

And 1*11 eive it, vthile I can. 
To lie hjf est and the Hue, 

Like a nan, like a m n ! 
O shai'ie, &c. 

No. n I'll iiold my v. te, 

A • trees ire and a trust, 
Mv ii:shon<ir nnrii s ail nioie, 

When I'm mi >■ r|e i w th he dust; 
A d my ehih're when I'm g. n- 

Sh- 1 be strengthened by the thought, 
That their a erwas ot eiie 

To be be ' ht, te b'' boitght , 

0* am , &c. 



ADDRESS TO THE RUMSELLER 

Ye tipii g dens, ye murderous crew 
Who paupers make and wives undo, 
Children arc Orphans made by you 
To weep in misery. 

Your Brandy, Beer, and Rum and Gin, 
And vViae with drugs and dye studs in, 
Have mug a public nuisance been, 

A source of misery. \ 

Y"U know that Alcoholic drink, 
Euiha.ns to thirst, and in tie- link , 
Depraves 'via- man and makes him sink 
To aula and misery 

Thin s worse than widow .d female woe3, 
Chi «!:••» lb tags hem bead to toes, 
And !.'•: i ane mad, in v.uids and bio'ws, 
i.e .d en tbeir misery 

What rubiic worth have you displayed. 
To tadomafccud your wicUed trtfdfi.' 
You have ou*r public pau$< rs made, 
To gr an iu misery.' 

WT}d( rfne anlOngtft virtuous class, 
liu i-'e" ns oft you, ihougn lave;',, alas' 
White yen deal htibils by the glass, 
Thai lead 'o misi ry.' 

Thank 0* d;he Washingtonian band, 
is tais-ul !•> lend a lie ping hand, 
To wh -.' th.- Caplive.s you command, 
I ruin drams and misery i 



E T 



K 



J'rcm tfie British ami Foreign Anti-Savcry Reporter. 
THE CROWNING C*RL\iE OF 
CHRISTENDOM. 

SV JAMES i;ARNAI?Dj ESQ; 

fsaw in the visions of flight 

An African village on fire! 

The flames rolled along in their might-**- 
And the shrieks of the victims rose higher and higher, 
i&s of infanf, and parent, and grey-headed sire. 

The man stealers sprang on their (Pteif ! 
And huMireds where slain or subdued : 
Sume perished front utter dj^may; 

And others where siain while for frteiev they sued; 

And the soil they had tilled with their blood was im- 
bued. 

One sight I shall never forget, 

Till the sunbeam of life is denied. 

And the star of my nieinor. shall" set — 
A bridegroom self-slaugh e red, enclasping his- bride, 
Who lay murdered, and mangled, and scorched by 

his side .' 

The captives in fetters were bound; 
Fear ran through th< ir tremulous frames; 
And they sobbed as they gazed round and round; 
Jj'orwhsre children that day had Deer? playing' their 
games, 

There where carcasses, captives, and smouldering 
flames. 

The vision fled slowly away, 
And ano.her appeared in its place; 
I locked on a beautiful bay, 
And ships in tranquility slept on its fr»ce; 
. Tluy were slayers! — the pest oj the' African race. 

On the shore was a horrible mart, 
Where man was the merchandize sold; 
Where the best blood that boils through the h*ar t 
Was bartered, as though it were stolid and cold 
As the storm-beaten rock, or the slave deal r's "-old ' 

Sweet bab^s from their mot hots were torn — 

Wives >vefe rent from their husbands away — 

Fond brothers asunder were bornei 
And lovers were parted, and sold far astray, 
5 ever more to clasp hands till the great judgement 

day. 

I heard them in anguish complain, 

For life without love is but dross; 

But they pleaded for mercy in vain; 
For the demons who fugpre hy the creed of the cross; 
Turned their faces away with an insolent ios^.' 

I gazed on the hot iron brand, 

As it hissed on, each ebony skin — 

I saw the slaves borne from the land 
To a slave ship, and packed in a large loathsome bin, 
Where the stench seemed to quench the dull light 

that stole in. 

The vision fled slowly away 
And an.-thei appeared in its place ; — 
Far around flashed the bright ocean spray, 
And a ship sped along in her beauty and grace, 
Bounding o're the wild waves with the swift swal- 
low's pace. 

But pestiience, madness, and death, 
Raged and raved in her dark crowded hold: 
And the slaves, a-' they drew their last breath, 
17-nconWd, unwep«, q'ro their limbs were yet cold, 
O're the tall vessel's side were remorselessly rolled/ 

Swift, swift, o'er the billowy main, 
Fiew onward that death stricken bark; 
And following as swift in her train. 

£>wam many a monstrous and ravenous shark; 

Gorging freely their f i I f of tin; C&rchefM 8 dark. 



Tfie vision fled <? owty aw;:y, 

And anollvr appeared in its plarej 

B'.iore trie a fyir re<-ion Utffej 
Where mountains rose High, like a huge giant rwp, 
With sweet Aq.werjl ftjflds Ivjpj ca!n» at their base. 

That land $gg Igjrd ; qf tjje slave!. 

The scene ofhts? closing c;;reer-r- 

Where the generous, the fond, and the hraye, 

'foiled on in their manacles, year t&er yejir; 

Parti tji'tji stripes for their labour — their solace a jeer. 

I saw them woeh out with 'heir toil, 
fi-rged oh by the slave-driver's whip; 
]r$a$r the lash rruclly coil 
Round their scar-covered back*, till the w orm blood 

would drip, 

While a grs>!iu.faiitUy fefj from the eloqnerfl hp! 

Enslaved both in body and mind — 
The victims of grief and despair— 
They se rneji to their fbrtnn- resigned ; 
With no will of their -.wn-for the future no rare, 
Like the dumb beasts of burden whose lot is— to bear. 

I beheld a poor Aft i san chief, 
Wh:>sename was once honored afar; 
Yet meekly he bore with his grief, 
And sang to himself, "Callabar! Callabar 1 
"Me could die \n sweet peace could me see Callabar!" 

The vision fTd slowly away, 

And another appeared in its p'ace; 

I witnessed the great judgement dav— 
A'ul the branded down-troe len, enslaved, negro race, 
With their tyrants and task-masters stood fa.ee to. twee/ 

Th«n fpake One from the cloud which he trod. 

It MAN HAS N().tyERC~)i ON MAN 

HOW CAM MAN HOPE FOR ME'&Ct FROM Goti ? 

And a cry of d. spair through th. multitude ran, 
"There is no hope for^am auq hash trafficked 
W man!" Colchester. 



i ft^»The Connecticut £puii!ain published in N< 
j Haven in an article pnder the head of "Rowdyism 
I f)i unkenness 2 ' complains \pr\ much pf the conduct 
a Steamboat h ad of .visiters from Newark which it si. 
j -"brqught a host, of loafers, wii.QSC libera} patronage 
j tpe bar dining the. p/tssage ha>! adruijably fitted the 
I for enacting the part of fupls pa their apriyaj.'? 
jFwunt^in says. "If it should ever please our News 
friends, tp seiid another such a lot of fellows abroad, 
hope they w il! put them on hoard a Teniperance 
or else send a strong posse of Jersey Police to take cs 
of them." 

How is this, Newarkers? Piease explain. 



No Mistake. A boy called on a doctor to visit hi 
father, who had the d^ljrium tremens; not nghtlj 
recollecting the name of the bad disease, he called itthl 
devil's trembles, making bad Latin but very gooi 
English. — ISaiujor Gazette. 

License Law Decision.— The Supreme Court of 
Massachusetts have decided that a bar-tender is liable to 
the penalties rc* selling spirituous liquors' to be drunk if 
his shop," although they do not own uoi have anv inj 
terest in the profits of the establishment where the* 
sell. £x. ' 



Temperance Record. 



As I ga*pd; the gre.it deap w as ulrtcalei 
I looked down on the broad oceans b< d 
And a valley of bout's was revealed, 



^RESULTS OF R U AI S E L L I N G r .-4# 

I was recet tl. told of a mother in this State, who 
was very \\\. SJh^ gave h-r hu,baud some little cliano-e, 
ind with an earnest cnarge. requested him to <*o to th" 
/iilage for s ane medicine and food. And said she. 
"Jimmie will g.. wittj you and hasten you back. Now 
d > not stay, for I am in gr *t pain." — They started, 
and walked several miles to the grocery. While there, an 
old companion entered and said to the man, "Let us 
cake something to drink." "No," said the boy. 
"come, Father, you know Motheris waiting at home." 
"What"' said the rumsHler' snseringly, "Do you 
teach Father when to drink'" Upon this they took a 
glass. Directly he drank again— Jimmie all the time 
urging him to go. Thus he continued drinki;ig until 
'welve oVlock, when the store was closed and they star- 
ted for home. It was a bitter cold night. There lay 
the sick wife, waiting. She listened and listened. 
\t every sound she started; nine o,ciock came, twelve, 
three, th- morning dawned, and they came riot. 
Finally she sent one for a neighbor, to gfl i» search of 
them. About a uyle from the house," he found the 
man ^ith a jug bv his side. fjjjp. was dead. And 
there sfnod jimiige. IBs elbow was. on the fence; 
his head vas 'eanjug on his hand; the icy tears were on 
his chejek; he Has a fir. sm n corqse. And who killed 
thorn? Wa? it not that licensed ruonseller? Western 
Citizen* h not the rumscller a MURDERER? 



6t> iegtptsrttoeeia Sweden,. A great Congress of 
Temperance societies has recently been held in Swede! 
at the Capital, one hundred and thirty two national and 
foreign Societies weie represented. The King is P-vsJ 
ident of the Stockholm Society. In Sweden fines ana 
said to be rigidly enforced against those who get intoxJ 
cated ; for the fourth offence a man is exposed in the 
parish church the following Sunday a id is deprived ol 
I he privilege of voting. 



MODERN PROTESTANT CHI M'H COURT«| 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of th. iniquitous prq] 
ceedings of Ecclesiastica. bodies in the' Prote*tanU 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale at this, office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM AND CHURCH AC- ! 
TION Is a small book published by JfJHIS 7 KEEP ] 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It she; d 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office el 
the Fxeeman, Bjwntoij, N. J. 



LIBER TYMLYS TREL. 

A fo»- copies of ClarVs Libeii> Minstrel are for 
sa'e at this office. 

This is superior lo any thing of iic kind we hare 
seen, and shoud be in the possession of every one that 
loves good iltusic, and loves to make a good u>e of it. 
Price, 44 Cents. 



li'tonlon Washington Tcmpei ancc Benev- 
olent Society, — meets every Momiay eve- 
ning in the Free Church TkomtM hi.ey 
President, Marcus Evarts Secretary* 

fi^THE UNION MISSION AW — This monthlyv 
paper published at No. o Spruce ijir-rt N. Y., is the 

^TsTemperanee Petitions have been sent to the Maine P r S an of the U iiou Missionary Soriet ., o Society 
L'-gisla'ure, from Portland, signed by six thousand per- refuses donations from Slaveholders or to, employ 

ed it is said werie ! S Ht? h V ld ers fn mis?k>Oary operations \i is' en ex- 
ceedingly interesting pftpef, ;WIed with 



s-ons. Three thousand l ight, hundi 
Ladies, and th^ir list measured 09 feet 



VPhtin the lost trumpet s 
the dead / 



interesting ac*. 

counts of the free nisyomry operations in Canada, Af- 
rica, Sandwich JslAii'ds &c. All (hose why h^v. any 
int"rest in surli missions, will feel richly rewarded by 
patrpnizii.g that pnper. 

■h shall waken ki»i„ ii ,i « L-wis Tappati is Treasuwr ? f the V. W. Snck»ty and 

I Let the rum seller, of New lor* take earning. I SU ch as is wrung from the unpaid toil *f\ke Slave 



The great rum question in Massaehusets invol- 
ving the constitutionalily of the Licr>nse law is decided 



Z i;,,a:I bl ' iin «"».v with banner., outspread,, j n |f ftVOr „, tne T ,. m „ ninPe cause by , he o„ urts of tha( 



\ 9 



Vol. 'k. 



BOO XT 03.* SEFT, 11, 18-W. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED SlONTrtLV BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Bocmto>i>, Morris County, iVicie Jersey. 



TERM S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers; 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



TESTIMONY OF REV. MR. DICKEY OF OHIO. 

'■Sir" said Mr .D., "I am not ignorant of slavery. 
Ravine; passed thirty years of my life in a slave stat^, 
and having been aslavc-holdcr myself, I know something 
about it. 

"Slavery in the church exposes her to the scoffs of the 
wort' 1 . Infidels despise a n-ligion which fhey stippose 
sanctions such oppression. I once heard a professor of 
r ligion laboring to justify slavery from the Bible, in th 
presencof an i fidel; who turned from him with con- 
tempt saying he despised such areligi. n. 

"It exerts an influence upon the mind of the slave 
prejudicial to the reception of iustruction- Suppose 
the ma.-ter himself attempt to instruct his slaves in the 
truths of religion — what confidence can he have in the 
man, who d'prhes him of his liberty, and robs him of 
his 'abor? I will state a case: An old slare told me 
"Massa bery 'ligions — he bcry good Christian. He 
hab prayers eberv Stfuday wid the slaves — but he sure 
to read 'em dat chapter what say servants be 'bedient to 
Massa." 

James H Dickey 



TES TIMOR IT OF JUDGE STEVENS. 

Extract of a speech of Judge Stevens delivered be- 
fore the General Assembly in May 1846 

Frederick a slave of Col. Patton, of North Carolina 
Was permit led to enlist as .a soldier during the war of 
the Revolution. He served and fought as a soldier in 
the armies of the colony, and at the close of the war re- 
ceived an honorable discharge . On the 8th of August, 
1S21, under the first enactment of the Pension Law ? 
Frederick was found to be entitled to on- thousand 
acres of land: and a patent issued to him for the land. 

The heirs of Col. Patton claimed the land and go i* 
by full and legal adjudication. The suit was prosecu- 
ted to final judgment in the Supreme Court. The fi- 
nal opinion of the court was delivered by Judge Cation 
one of the Judges of the Supreme Coon of the United 
States, who is a citizen of a slave state. In which o- 
} inion, he declares all these foregoing properties of A- 
merican slavery that I have enumerated, and says that 
they are not special hi ws, but are the general laws of 
slavery, without exception, in the American slave 
States. * 

This negro Fredrick served seven years, and stands 
enrol ed as one of the worthy heroes that fought and 
bled through the w hole war by the side of Washington. 
But that did not, nor could not make a man of him. he 
He was a slave, the law made him property — made him 
a beast, and he could not own property, and then for 
his earnings belong' d to the heirs of his old master. 



a party, cither plaintiff or defendant, in a court of law o r 
equity. Not' can he be a witness serve on a jury, or 
be enrolled as a part of the military iorce of the coun- 
try. 

Slavery is hereditary, descending in the fe male l : ne 
irrespective of color to the end of tjme. The law of 
the whole world is changed. It always has been, and 
still is fixed a d invariable rule airiftng all the civilized 
nations of tin 'earth, pagan, hdatheAand Christian, that 
the offspring of a sentient or human 'b< ii.g belongs io 
the father and mother, and takes 'he conditio" of the 
father; in herits his family names — this honors — his civ- 
il rights and immunities, together with his estates. 

With brute beaets it is not so. Wrutc 'beasts have no 
family names — have no civil rights — have no marriag' 
rights — have no relations — have no father, or mother as 
such. The are not sentinent beings, and cannot own 
propertey; therefore the offspring oi brute beasts follow 
t ie c nelition ot the mother, and belong to the peisoi , 
that < >wns the mother. . 

And just so it is with American slaves, they are re- 
duced by law to the same condition, of the beasts of the 
tarn yard. 

If the mother is a slave, her offspring is a slave, al- 
though the mother and the offspring may at as white as 
the whitest Circassian. 

The owner of the mother owns her offspring. 
The change of the laws of descant among slaves 
from the. laws of descent that govern freemeu, to the 
laws of dascent that govern brute bjasts, was not with- 
out a cause. No, indeed, there is great cause for it. 
It is the vary platform that, of al! •others, upholds the 
whole system. If slavery dt sec ruF'd in n ale line ii 
would put an end to the whole systi m. First, if the 
'ine of descen* was in the fa her, s,a\e lav.s would I u\< 
to recognise a father, ai.d have tQjecognise a marisg 
relation, and a family nam- . citl et of which de troy. • 
the absolute property systo m, bud makes them men a- 
gain to a great --'xt'iit. Secondly, if slavery descended 
in the line of the i.v.her, a free man's children wou ; d b" 
free. 

There is no relation of parent andchild among slaves, 
because neither father, nor mother owns the ofisf-ring. 
The father is not known or recognised as such, any 
more than the father of a brute beast. The mother is 
not recognised as a mother in that sense, among hu- 
man beings, buisimp ! y a.5 a mother among beasts. The 
ownership of the. offspring is determined b> the moth- 
er and for a certain time she nourishes the offspring at 
her breast. The instant it ceases to be fed at the moth- 
er's breast, the mother ceases to have ownership or con 
trol over it. The owner of the mother owns it, and 
takes it. sells it or does what he pleases with it. 

A slave has no name in that sense of the word, among 
men r but only a name as amoug the b< a«ts of the. bam 
yard He cannot be an heir, nor can he have heirs. 
Nothing can descend to him, nor can he transmit any 
thin" by descent to another. 



and abuse. * * * * * 

A slave is punished at the will of the owner or mas- 
ter be the punishment what it may. This has been 
often decideel in courts ofjusficc, but recently in the cit- 
y of New Orleans. 

In New Orleans in the summer of 1845, one C. 
Doneburg owned an old negro man, and bright mulatto 
boy. The boy was about ten years old. The owner, 
Doneburg, lost his wacth, and charged the boy with 
stealing it and had him put into the police jail, and thcra 
by hie orders the boy received twenty-five lashes per 
day for ten days, and until his back, body and limbs 
weres mass of raw, skinless, trembling flesh. Ravines 
as it were had been cut into the flesh bv the lash, and 
he was a victim of the most heartless and wanton cru- 
Ity. The public discovered it and the boy was sent 
to the hospital, and Doneburg was prosecuted for his 
barbarous and irhuma;' conduct, and the court after 
much deliberation, aec ; uited him, saying that there was 
no law to punish a man Lr the chastisement of his own 
slave. "If," said the Judge, " a man destroy hi c ; own 
property it Is his own loss." 

The boy in the eye of the law was a horse or a ~ g 
— the man's property, and he could abuse him if he- 
ploased. 



From the Cincinnati Herald. 
An Auction Scene 



In the winter of 1840 and '41, having business in 
Western Virginia, where the peculiar institution flour- 
ish s in its uaildesi form, (be it remembered at this time 
J was opposed to anti-slavery principles,) December 
28 h I found my self in Martmsbuig, the county seat of 
Berkley. About 10 o'clock f the aferesaid day I 
observed a crowd congregated in the public square in 
i ) i of a suspicious looking building', which had very 
much dr appearance, of a Jail as jt proved io be. On 
enquiry of my landlord concerning the: cause of the 
meeting, he said it was "a hireing" — in other words a 
negro sale — as I afterwards found that a number were 
hired for life. I walked down to the market, and to 
obtain a better view, I mounted a large wagon in the 
street directly opposite the stand of the auctiouepr,who 
had commenced his work. He was a large man, dres- 
sed in aristocratic style, with a profusion of ruffles? 
gold finger rings, watch seals, and last and not least, a 
iai ge whip, called by drivers "a loaded whip." The 
hireing I undersiood to be of a number of slaves of a 
ecrtatn estate, who were hired out from year to year to 
the highest bidder for the benefit of the heirs. These 
sales take plaee between Christmas and New Years, the 
holidays, quite a recreation for the slaves who are to 
change mn-ters. 

After a number had been disposed of in this way, th e 
crier announced thfit he won'.d ofier for sale six slaves. 
He then put up two, father and son. The old man 
was near sixtv y< -ars of age a cri pie; the son was about 
twenty-three, a perfct specimen of a man. There 



A slave has no redress of grievances, no redress for was prese nt two Georgia soul-drivers, who bid eight 
done hi? person. He is not knows in hw\as j hundred dollar.-; for both. When the crier remarked it 



amy injury et 



man, but only as a bea^t. Any white person that plea- 
ses, may whip, wound, bruise any slave be pleases, and 
amy where and the slave dan riot resist, nor has he any 
redress. He cannot make ce>mplaint to an officer of 
justice, nor he bri g a suit. He is precisely on the 
j same; footing with a horse or other beast. If you 
A slave cannot make a contract that binds himself or (wound or injure a hor.,e sous to make him less valuable, 
any body else— not even a marriage contract. .he horse has no rcdr. ss; but the own. r of the horse 

The relation of husband wife, parent and child, a 



mon ■ American slaves cannot exist, in any other sense, 
than the tense in which S1*ch relation exists among 
brute bea?ts. 

A sl*ve i» not in law a human bei*g. He cannot be 



may brin - suit for damag done his property. Such is 
the law respecting a slave. If a slave is so injured a 



was a small bid for both, the Georgian replied, he 
would give eight, hundred without (he old man, as he 
was of no accou >t. The young man gave the bidder a 
look that would have shamed the devi', the old man 
wept bitterly. This i on sold al the bid, and the father 
was sold for sixty dollars to an old firmer who had 
never kept a slave in his life. Thus father and soft 
4er© separated The next case was that of a girl, 
fifteen y ars of acre. (These slaves had been hired out 
tp different individuals the past year.) She wr.s brought 



crying upon tfo i Bt&nch With an oaih he bid her to stop 
"blubbering,".' nd Hie 



to be bindred frf;m performing bis duty tohis owner, his ; J 

master may brirrj suit for damn e done Ms property, |<Wbber,ng,<> and 11.™ p, evcect, ,t v 



ll f 



After 



*vas good for an incritisB of the property, faying which 
the brutal wretch placet! his whip u-mea h herftproi, 
a nd raised itabove her bead, exhibiting iotbf: e»H*h 
eucd Multitude the spectacle of ;t giri» (iiteen years old 
i'ar'aSHrttfed in pivgi.ancy! She was sold ibr one hun- 
dred and fifty do la s. 

The next case was that of a Voting white woman 
sixteen years old, wltu a youngchild 1 say white woman, 
because the aucti"iieersaidshe was Only oneeiglnh-bbe i: 
and I. have seen many of as fail girls of Ohio who 
could not boast of as fair complexion or as good figure 
or features. She cable Upon the stand with tv-r infant i 
her arms in the deepest misery. A genii- man who bad 
taken ids seat beside me observing that 1 was very 
interested, remarked he thought I was a stranger in tha 
country, Lanswered that i was. These things io-.k 
odd to you 7 " "They do." said he, '.'you see (bat man 
in the cr wd," pointing to off* within a few paces of 
the stand^-"that is Dr. C, h hired that gir' last year, 
and that child is his/" Ti e Georgian b ; d three hun 
dred dollars; som> one bid four; the Georgian bi'' four 
fifty,) thegirl cast d piercing glance on the crowd, her 
eyes rested on Dr. C, who instantly averted his face. 
She gazed -cn' moment, then burst in o a torrent of 
tears. She was knocked off to the Georgian. Thus 
the fiend saw his child and its mother, sold into South- 
ern bondage: My God! though I, is it possible? I xas 
cured of my pro slavery (jrinc'tples, Carlos. 

The writer of the foregoing says — "I am a poor 
me -hanic, a noisy son of Vulcan. You will therefore 
excuse the imperfect manner in which have written." 
Such a communication needs no apology. — Ed. Her. 



AN INCIDENT OF THE CONVENTION. 

A friend, a day or two since, gave us an account of an 
interresting cireums'ance ^Connected with the la'e 
Convention. Two gentlemen of his acquaintance, B 
Whig and a Democrat, irons the neighborhood of Fo> 
River, hapqening to be in town on the first day of tht 
Convention, concluded, as there was a laige gathering 
lo go in and see what the fanatics were about. Bibb, 
iwas speaking at the time, and they both became deeph 
hterrested. When it " as announced that he wonld giv 
B portion of his narrative in the evening, one of the 
gentlemen said to the other, that lie felt inclined to stav 
and hear him, and his friend said he did not mind if h> 
kept him company.- Well, they both remained & heard 
the first part of the thrilling narrative of Bibb. Tb 
next morning they had another conversation and the 
gentleman who on the preceding day had yielded at the 
solicitation of his friend, needed no urging to stay till 
evening and hear the eloquent fugitive again. During 
the day they attended and lis'ened 'o the discussions of 
the Convention, and in the evening formed a pari of th 
"Vast audience which we have already described as so 
moved aud spelI-bound,--which so alternate d between 
pity and indignation at the recital of the almost incredible 
wrongs and indignities to which the nanator and his 
wife had been subjected. 

On the followingday, having heard Mr, B.'s narrative 
concluded, and listened to the cogent arguments and the 
stirring eloquence of the different speakers at the 
Convention, and witnessed the fraternal spirit with vvhirb 
all its proc cdings were conducted, the Whig said to the 
Democrat, after talking over the matter, "Let us be 
honest. Thcee men are right, and engaged in a noble 
cause.'. Why should we stand back— \\ by should we 
not join them?" The Democrat concurred entirely in 
wlial the Whig neighbor had said. They accordingly 
shock hands upon the matter, pledging themselves that 
henceforth thev would stand for the right, in spite of 
their party predilections. Our Informant expressed th 
opinion that they would b.oth vote the Liberly ticket at 
the comi«.g (lection. 

[W< atem Citizen. 


(J^SpflHISBftg the sincere and i onest truth and living 
up to it. e«n never injure any Htjtig hut SaOjJSfr King- 
dom. — (3«toft>i 1 



From the Albany Evening Journal. 
Cost of (pKi,Anctxo tiiK Area of Slaver^ 

A New Orituns correspondent of the New-York 
( ommo cial Adveiiistr, writing under date of the 
26th. ultimo, says: 

"in my last 1 promised some account of the manner 
in which money and credit have been used herein chat- 
tering and purchasing boats, &c. but have since seen 
a pretty good accoti.it published in the Northern papers-, 
and will add bie one or two items. The steamboat 
.lames L. Day whs paid for otie trip and detention at 
Point Isabel— say about thirty days from the time of 
i,. aving here until her return— twenty-nine thousand, 
seven hundred antbsix'y-threc dollars. The Telegraph, 
which was so'd he^Se last Spring for twelve thousand 
d liars v. as chartered for two or three trips at seven 
I hous . nd dolla s eaeh trip, and then sold to the Gover- 
nment fertile snug sum of twenty-five thousand dollars. 

A neighbour of mine purchased a condemned Freneb 
brig for on~ thousand dollars,' end in an hour after char- 
.ered b r to the G<Tv- inm-nt for a trip for twenty -three 
hundred dollars to transport troepsto Port Lavacea. 

These are mere specimens of hundreds of cases. I 
have used the wordcr dit above- The supplies for the 
first volunteers were almost entirely purchased on credit^ 
"and as but few were able to sell cash articles— such as 
provisions, sjjgar, coffee. ojc.-- on <ime,the Comimissary 
met with some difficulty, and but for the three hundred 
thousand dollars so promptly furnished by our ,Stsle, 1 
doubt if they (the voh>nteers)could hav been sent at all 
until funds had reached here from Washingion. 

As a consequence, the highest price was paid for'ev- 
ery thing,and those who' were, able to sell on credit rea- 
lized larger profits. After the warits ofthe Quarter- 
master,- department was known at Washington, the - 
ttere promptly supplied—remittances coming in driblets 
>f fifty thousand arf|one hundred thousand dollars at a 
toe, to pay liabilities amounting to more than one 
million dollars. 

From 'he Signal of Liberty 
{H> Occasionally a Whig paper begins to 'see tht 
»al condition of its parly, and ventures to speak out. 
rlere is a sp. cimen from our neighbor of the State 
fournai. 

*'We are conviheed that the Whig party must take 
decided anti-slavery ground, or break to pieces. '1 here 
is no alternative. Let not our expediency politicians 
expect aey thing from the Stutbern States— there are 
some true Whigs— true friends of freedom, in thost 
States, but they are a hopeless minorjtv. But by taking 
•he right course every Norfbern State will soon be witi 
us." 

Gen. Taylor. — This gentleman who has wortbily 
won the reputation of being a successful fighter, is the 
person who recommended the introductioh of Cuba 
h'ood hounds to fmht the Indians in theFlorida Wat 
The Whigs doirgod Mr. Van Buren with their '•blood 
hound" cry, but they have no objections to making 
Gen. Taylor Pressdenttf/o. Preeman-. 

Withdrawal of Two Presbytf.ries. The 

Presbi tery of Lewis Delaware, a small body, consisting 
of four of five ministers and as many churches, has 
withdrawn from the General Assembly, (New School,) 
to which it belonged, expressly on the ground of the 
anti slavery characterpf the document adopted by the 
Assembly at its laist Udeling. The Presbytery of 
Pipley, Ohio, lias Withdrawn from the same Assembly 
on similar grounds.-- Ledger. 

The EedgeV does utx state the facts ofthe case in- 
telli jibly, »s wti apri'hend. The Lewis Presbytery 
secedes beeatise tht- r^jfol'ttrioh* of the Assembly were 
of to{j anti slavery j» "ehirac'ef: the Ripley Presbytery 
b cans" il;e\ were not anti-slavery enough. Tiiis shows 
the had policy » if nothing else, of erropicmists. Perm. 
Fr'cman. 

f s --U fhe ijlinois Stat* Female Anti Slavery Society 
held it-s annual i;i' etjug on lt.-c <JC>ll. uit <tt Chicago. 



CONVENTION. ' 

I A Liberty Couventioii for" Morris -: Gonntv wilf be 
held at Boon ton on Tuesday 29th Sept. at 3 o'clock P. 
M. for the purpose of making a Ticket for the Election 
which will h on Tuesday fsov. 3d. 
Let the Liberty Voters in ibis County be in attendance 
without fail. 

Addresses in the evening. The citizens genc-raly 

are invited to attend. 



FOUSTII DISTRICT 
CONTENTION. 

The Liberty voters in the Congressional District, 
Composed of the Counties of Morris, Somers. t, and 
Middlesex, are hereby notified to m<et in the School 
honse intEa'st Madison, on WY.dnsday the 9th day of 
Oct. next, at 3 o'clock P. M. for the purpose of nomi- 
nating a candidate tor Congress for said District. 

Addresses in the afternoon and evening. 

Sept. 10 1846. ' 



A direct, r of a diamond m-ne in Brazil, thinking 
one of his n gmes bad stolen, ordered him to be ripped 
open, and in him was found a diamond. Upon this 
discovery* the cruel monster caused five fciore to he 
dealt with in the same manrer, but did not in either of 
these cases find any of his property. For this horrid 
crime, he was mere!-. Te. uired to f»iy twetitv -five ■ ias- 
ires for the five negro, s whom he had killed with ut 
benefiting their owners! It was not considered iny cri 
me ut a 1 to murder the first one, for by taatact ihe ovei- 
seer did service to his employers! 

{p5^A Committee of the Alabama Legislature has ex- 
pressed their apprehension that .Kentucky, Maryland 
and Virginia wil soon abolish Slavery, and thatN. Car- 
olina, Tennessee and Arkansas will follow their exam- 
ple. 

^The Mobile Volunters before their departure for 
the Rio Grande, amused them selves by pelting two in- 
offensive negro boys who were fishing on the vhfirf, 
and then jmshing them-in the river and drowning one 
of them 

{Kfplt is said the Emperior of Russia intends to abol- 
ish Slavery in his dominions. Some reductions have 
been made in the tariffof that Empire. 

fcyThe new Pope has condescended to pass through 
the Streets of Rome on foot. He is said to be doiug 
something for the relief of the State prisioners. 

{&sThc Snlteh ..f Turkey is taking measures to pro 
mote public instruction. He has already abolished 
Slavery. 

Ct^The Eleventh Anniversary ofthe N. York State 
Anti Slavery Society is to be held at Uiica, Sept. 16th 
at 10 o'cloch A. M. 

(ir^Thc New York State Liberty Nominating Con- 
vention was held al Canlstotathe 9th insVant. 

George Tompson the last of the three young men con- 
fined in the Missouri Penitentiary for counselling the 
escape of slaves, is released. He has been confined 
there about.five years. Burr & Work the other too 
were relea?cd pome time since, ' 

Lirerty or SFEEcti. Docs it exist in this land? Is 
there such a thing, in Fact, in Amerscan society? Look 
this moment at the whig organs and see how Ih'cy'shakd 
like aspen leaAes at the feared frown" 'of jviti!»c biTitndn* 
as regards their course in the Mexican War. Tl:tv air 
tongue-tied with few exceptions, 'every where". ' "They 
stand like strong men struck wirh fAfls> , scared oul of 
their witi, an^l strength. C. M. Gluy. 



THE JfEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, All OUST i 



15 



ote to sustain them in their inlamous practices 



1S46. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God: and religion cannot flourish on 
the eround -whore huntmrU withers. Keep-. 



TO TH E LIBERT Y VOTER S ISEW JERSEY. 

The election In this State for members of Congress, 
the Legisla ure and Counts officers will take place in 
Nov., being about six weeks from this time, and it i 
time fur all those friends* of the sla,ve who feel it a duty 
to add to their efforts the moral suasion of trie ballot box 
to wake up ai d see that every;County if possible in the 
State is fully organised for the work. The enemies of 
freedom arc preparing to put forth their strength on thai 
ocea ion -Hid why should we neglect our duty? It is 
a fcreat mistake to think that because there are but a few 
to unite with us in using the power a- d influence of an 
honest vote, to br-at down the system of oppression, it 
can do no good. The trutfi faithfully held up before the 
people will always do good though it is held up by a 
single individual. While our :inti slavery friends are 
preparing to do a noble work this fail, it w ould be treach- 
erous in us to fold our hands. Let us do our duty, and 
throw all into the Scale of Liberty we can. Tyrants 
have always felt their power crumbling " lien die people 
wake 1 to the power of their votes in breaking their fet- 
ters. Never w;is their a time when the people of New- 
Jersey were so called upon to organise and come up to 
a man for our Country's redemption. It is a duty we 
owe to ourselves, to humanity; to the State of New Jer- 
sey and to the friends of freedom in other states who are 
toiline in this cause. It is predicted by the enemies of 
the slave that the Liberty party is about to be annihila- 
ted that it has received its death blow. Shall this pre- 
di'-iionb - fulfilled? If it be, it will be in consequence 
of the apathy of the slave's friends. 

But we do not believe this will come to pass. We 
believe that the coming elections will tell a story for 
liberty that wilt carrv consternation into the slaveholder's 
eftmp. Our friends in the other States will expect 
N«w Jersey to he in the field. It will he treachery in 
us if we are n->t fully or<raniz-d, and into the work with 
our whole strength. It is true we have greater diffi- 
culties to labour under than our friends have in some of 
the other States. But this is no reason whv we should 
he inactive, it is a crreat r"a<)on whv we should be more 
dhVpnf and faithful,, for the now-er of the enemy must 
be broken up and destroyed, and we must measure out 
our "X'Mvih"' and our str«*na-th to me< i the exieehcies 
lof the case. There is a part of the creat work that is 
to he done by voting. Slavery has been voted into ex- 
istence, and continues in existence bv votina. It is to 
he extended and perpetuated by v.ot'mq. A pro slavery 
Congress, (and w' en has our Cor-,<rress not been pro 
slaver- ,) has voted Texas into the Union for the exten- 
sion of Savory. It has voted us into an infamous war 
on Mexico for its farther extension, and millions of Dol- 
lars hove been voted ont of our national Treasury to 
pay expenses of this war. About one hundred mil- 
lions were voted out of our Treasury to dispossess the 
poor Indians of the land of their fathers by removal or 
by destroying- them with the aid of bullets and blood 
Umind«, for the exclusive benefit of Slaveholders has 
jpen voted into their hands, and voting keep* it there, 
n short the whole business is done by VOTING, we 
ire voted ihc slave ia'to hands cfhis master, to be used 
BVvarice ar.d passion and lust may dictate and shall 
"e not vote him out. Shall we give the devil the cx- 
pjve use of the Sallot box* The Slaveholders, hot 
ii claim the right to use it for the perpetuity and ex- 
tension of their iniquitous institutions, but they insoUot- 
jy demand of us th-rt wo should submit and bow in ab- 
l-ict.ti rvility to theui.tivi use the Focred pc->v.r ©1 the 6'iflVi 



ding over the rights, feelings and interests of their £ licw i 
men. 

We call upon every man to be a? Lfe post. We ha\e 
nothing to say to those who do vol vote, but we call 
upon s!l those who t/ovote, lo vole rh ht. and we wiy 
to the friends of liberty in NvwJe use j <o organize in 
all the C< unties. The real anti slavery strength of 
this Slate has never yet been shown at the Polls. The 
few Liberty men in this s at< ar- so scattered, that 
they have thought it not worti' while to come together 
and organize in most of the Counties. 

This is wrong there are men of the voting sort in eve- 
ry County we believe to make a Ticket. In fact if 
there be but one man let him vote and thus throw his 
weight into the grate scale of liberty, it will encourage 
others and help to convince the enemy that v e are coin- 
ing in the majesty of freemen's power with fixed pur- 
poses to overthrew the power of the oppressors of the 
human race, and lift Uf dow ntrodden humanity into its 
proper scale of existence. We hope thej- for.- that eve- 
ry man may feel the importance of -wakif ••_ Ivmself 
up, and then waking up his neighbors." and ORGAN- 
ISE, yes, ORGAN IS E, and. g-, ve every man in the 
State that is Willing to vote for liberty an opportunity 
to throw the influence of Lis vote w here it will tell with 
power and effect. The friends in other States expect 
this of us, shall we disappoint them? The slave de- 
mands it of us , shall we tur a deaf ear to his ciies? 
We hope not, and therefore we only say ORG ANISE ! 
ORGA NISEI I .' If the friends in the different Counties 
will make out a Ticket and send it on to the Freeman, 
we will give it an insertion before the election. 



°f : From the Western Citizen. 

Secret Societies. 

By order of the Cenb-al CoiigregafidHT-al Association of 
Illinois; the following reso.uliohs on Secret Socieiies are 
forwarded for insertion in your columns: 

Whereas, Association learn with pain that various 
Societies and Orders, binding th-ir members to secrecy, 
are making raqirJ progress throughout 'his country. 

Resolved, Thai in the judgment I f this Association an 
oath or pledge of secrecy, exacted of members of any 
organization, renders that organization essential'}- differ- 
ent from, and opposed to. the Church of Jesus Christ 
and a republican State, which- court investigation and 
seek light. 

!■ solped, Tha' we have not known of any reforms, 
issuing in the b< nefit of m- kind, in this Or any other 
age, originated or carried out by any society requiri g 
secrecy of its members. 

Resolved, That a secret society, though formed for 
benevolent purposes, is peculiarly liable to corruption; 
and history shows that such societies have been 
commonly, if not universally, corrupt interfering with, 
and injuring the administration of justice 
and the freedom of elections in church and state. 

Therefore Resolved, That in the judgment of this 
body, it is the clear and obvious duty of all Christians 
to Lave no fellowship wi'h such societies, but rather to 
reprove them. 
By vote of Association. 

D. GORE, Scribe 



MILL BROOK, We addressed the citizens of this 
place on the evening of 5th inst. in the school house. 
A very respectable anri orderly congregation was assem 
bled inside the house, and a v. ry noisy assemblage o! 
big and little boys outside whose object seethed to b tr 
disgrace themselves and di.-turb those inside by makir. 
all the noise they could with drums, bells, tin pans and 
various other instruments not omiting their tongues 
which were used w ithout stint. 

The friends have a meeting house in this place as 
also do the Episcopal M. thodists both of which ar< 
closed against the cause of the slave, but the school 
house is free and from the feeling mar ife ted at the 
meeting We are confident that asrood work is going on 
there. We were urged to hold another meeting 
which we agreed to do on the Sid of October. 



$3* Sihce the battles of the Fth and 9th of May, Gen. 
Taylor has had L. L. D. attach' d to his name by one of 
the southern colleges. We see bv a toast give n at 
Matamora- on the 4th in .:., "OH Pou gn a d Ready " 
siticediai evert, is called 'Toiler „f l. aws in t ] u . 
University of Mexico "— Sir-val of Liberty. 



(^INDIANA. TM S Ffrafe'hn.i givqn a ^'od pain 
though in some parts of the Strife there w? s iiftje or no 
effort made. In some towns 'he lib< rt' vcre was more 
than the Whig and democratic combined. 

(fe. ILLINOIS. There has I ieen a glorious gain in 
this State. In one District the 'iberty vote was nearlv 
equal to the vote of the w hole Kate last year. A lib- 
erty Sheriff was elected in one Cinr.'y.in rranv tc-vn 
the whig vote is far behind the liberty vote. We do 
not'kno.v what the v.-hoie liberty v6te in the State is, 
but we have heard it repor'ed ai 1O/IC0. The Chica- 
go Citizen thinks the whigs should be set down in the 
return-- as scat. ' 

{Sfj?-- OHIO. This Stale ts renkinrr rtnplc prep 



(l^Every year, about this time, several of the Whig 
papers in this State are taken with a fit of antislavery, 
which asts them a ! most till election day, and then de- 
parts from them til i s periodical return next year. 
While the fit lasts, however, they ofteusay good tilings. 

he Oak and Gazette talks about the shameless ser- 
vility of northern members on this wise: 

"The truth is that the Representaiives of the North 
r.a e bef n a set of cowards; and a brave people should 
jcorn the reere nt race Let us have men in Con^r.ss 
. ho date look the slave drivers in the face andsay their 
s .mls are their own. A fiim and' manly stand for free- 
dom and ihe h nor of republican pretensions is ail that 
is required, and v.e can never excuse the paltroons who 
kindly and timidly bowed slave-driving Texas into tho 
Union, and then with equal condescension invite Cali- 
fornia to come to the banquet in human flesh. Cannib- 
alism is more human, for well roasted human flesh may 
have a better odor than this stu, id moral cowardice, 
.« hieh suffers tamely the infe rnal barter in human soul 
and body to be carried into the glorious domains of na- 
ture. If California is to teem w ith northern civilization 
let the air be forever free." 

Very well said. Pray, what Whig slaveholder do 
vou intend to vote for for President in 1848?-- Signal of 
Liberty. 



Anecdote. — The slaves at the South generally at- 
tend the tame meetings w ith their masters, especially 
hose attached to the Methodist Church. At a prayer- 
rhee.ting, one evening, Jim prayed earnestly for his mas- 
ter, that he might be converted. The master was kneel- 
ing in one corner, and showed evident signs of repent* 
anee; some thought the w ork accomplished, and whisp- 
er, d to Jim. \i Massa converted now." Jim was in 
credulous, would n't helive it but thought he would put 
ttiassa to the proof: so 1 c v.trt vy behind the kneeling 
sinner and whispered ic his ear, "Massa, Jim free now ?" 
After a pause, he answered* "I 'ill think about it, 
Jim." Jim thought the work w as not yet accomplished, 
aid said,"Massa musthave another lick!" So to praying 
again he went, 'mbrc. c.'.rne-tly than .before; and the 
master Ltd ming more r-gitatrd, Jim crept up behind 
Mm, and repeated," i :'m ike now, Massa?" :'Yes, 



tins for a strong demonstration at tl e Fobs The I ib J P t m bw1 g° n0 " " 1 ljis "" as ine evidence of the 



erty candi.ia;» b: s invited both thedernoern ic and whig 
candidate s to discuss U.t ireiits of f! eii respective 
panics ar.dithey.b j ve bob refupd. Ohio will ai e 
rge yiote this year, iaryer perhaps than an; oth.-.r 



lars 



b&astei ,s conversion. 

£o VI.RMOI-T.x The Eic-oticn in Vermont hag 
lisulled in no »hoic(' for g(i\cnor. We have not seen 
k c sl r Luirs but tin c bas been a great gain fur hb- 

etty. 



For the F •» rpnr>. 

jtzrsiWGS <wv ax.* * x: J* r\ 

Hark! hear that voice of bitter Wo 
Tbal break-; upon the startled sense, 
Tis woman sunk in Slavery low 
Who sighs for freedom's joys immerse. 

See there a form erect and firmy 

Bruised, scarred and bleeding, 'neath the lash, 

See there a soul for glory burn, 

Buug.it attd exchanged for Southern Cash. 

Look . n. a iitt'e one is seen 
Ah.' pratler better ne'er been bom, 
For stripes, injustice, death I ween, 
Await the slave child night and morn. 

Is this the land the pilgrims trod? 
Is here the ?rav.< of Washington? 
Can men be here who worship i rod 
Or pray for mercy through his Son? 

Are these the Son's of patriot sires! 
Who fought and and bled for dearest rights? 
Men strong heart to face the fir s 
That blazed around Old Bunkers heights, 

Shame on the tile degenerate Sons 
• Who for the love of partly gold, 
Enslave the dark and sunerinrr ones 
To toil and w ant and grief untold. 

Up.' then, while Freedoms trump ye hear, 

Up to the battle, y t.ng an old, 

Up' agitate! let troth appear, 

Up.' Brothers all! be fitm, be bold. 

On to the rescue of the poor.' 

On ior the spread of tr rth and right/ 

On.' for the victory's our's tis -ure, 

On/ reach the Crown it heaves in signi 

_ A. Mora*. 

East Madison, N. J. 

Temperance Record. 



T E M PERANCE 
MEETING. 

The Annual Meeting of the Morris County Was! 
to Tempi ranee Benevolent So. i. ty will he held in 
Boo'-ion on Thursday Oct 15th 184C at 10 o'ch ck A 
M. Meetm s q ill be heid in the af Urhooh and evenin; 

Able Speakers will be provided. T mperance So- 
ctoncs and the friends of T mperance generally are k 
qu. sled to attend. Business of import will b< 
brought before the meeting 

John Grimes Sec. 

Sept 10th 184G. 



For the Freeman. 
Temperance Banner. 

Lift up trie the Tempi ranee banner; 
Then call the temperance roil, 
We want a gencial master 
Of all that hate the bowf. 

Now let the pulpits thunder, 
Now lot the proses speak, 
WVII make the people wondV, . 
We'll make the rummies sneak. 

Wo feel encouraged greatly 
By news we he;>r Ot an- 
The cause is moving sprightljl 
In the old Empire Suite. 

Hurah for clear cold -iVater 
fjow pturo and sweet itllo*vs, 

FroducIBg joy .nd lftugh or 
Slid saves from mat*v w«»es» 



We call on every voter 
To" vote the license dow n. 
We pray to every rtder 
Oh, drive h out of town. 

The mothr rs heart -w ill glndden 
For hef- poor long lost son, 
The poor Wives hopes will brighlori 
While praise employe, her to;;gue. 

I gee the temperance youth 
So healthful ,e!ean and bright, 
How valiant for the truth 
Oh tis a gloYiotts sight. 

Then hoist the Temperance banner. 
Loud call the Temperance roll, 
1 see the general muster 
They Eire Marching to the poll 

A. Mora?. 

East Madson, 2V. J. 



fs^FACT. — When a feller is too lazy to Work, says 
Sam Siick, he paints his name over the door and ca ^s 
it" a tavern, and like as r.ci 1 < makes the whole neigh- 
borhood as lazv as himself. Liberty Standard. 



North Carolina. — A rnfa b\ the nam»- of Bi igli 
living in North Carolina lately shot a negro, w ounciin 
him so se verely thai the poor fellow died shortly after. 
Bright was ihTestcd, tried, found gui ty and serr encpd- 
to be hung by the neck until hr- is dead? — no. r — oh 
instead to pay a fine of f,ve dollars. — The same pen It 
that the law provides in Massachusetsfor thed structioi 
of little robins that hop about our gardens. ChriMim 
Cit. 



Three Cheers for Temperance! 

Honor to the Re^order,s C"ur:! The Recorder,? 
Court "f th" city was occupied most of (he day jester- 

ay and until ll o'clock in the evening in the trial of 
Trumbull Smith, (who keeps on the Packet Dock) for 
he violations of the excise law. The jury found a 
t etdiet of guilty without leaving the box. A fine of 

150 was imposed, with imprisonment '-ot exceeding 
• ix months, ifit is riot paid. District Attornev Com 
'ock and Wm. M. Aden for the people, and Garwin &• 
Sene ict for the defendant. Smith,s an old offender 
-tad scores of rummies Wore hangin upon his coat-tail. 

(jC-r-VoKE & Dallas. — A New "Striped Pig." A 
an in Erie County N. Y. has bi ea found guilty oi 
.fdatiig the license law. He kept a picture of Pol!: 
nd Du lias in his backroom which he let the topoi 
■ok at for 6c:s. a time, giving a glass- of liquor in. The 

y ^rved him right. Men should nut be permitted t 
>ado the la.- in this way. 

ft~=.MAINE.— More than forty thousand petitioner.* 
ave sent in their names to the Legislature, prayinor f 0 - 

aw to suppress the traffic in strong drink. Temper 
nee is not dyirtg aw iy in the state of Maine. 



Frciheitt'CalanUr St r tias jr«&rl$i47. 

(LIBERTY ALMANAC FuR THE YEAR lis i7) 

A German Quarto Almanac. Forty pages of th 
>ame will contain "AN ADDRESS TO THE GER 
MANS IN TEE UNITED STATES ON THE A 
BOL1TION OF SLAVERY" written at the sugg ejj 
tion of Gi W. Alexander, a well known friend of Lou 
don, by W. F. Carovc, Docter of Philosophy d 
Frankfurt, one of the best writers of Germany. Thii 
treatise shows in very impressive and cenvincive langft 
the evils, wrongs, and dangers if slirv%ry-i il is an ap 
P"al to the heart and understanding of a very Humeroi 
class of our fellow-citizens, and if ex tensive I •. c. ; siiib 
ted aino g them, cannot foil io make them the w armest 
advocates of the abolition of S ov ry. 

There are more thant hree hundred thousand G'-rmr n 
American Voters in the middle, westi rn and south- wi-jm 
tern states and territories of the Union, a large Owned 
of which could and ought to be reached, and gain ed u 
our sacred cause by an ad quale distribution of this Al- 
manac. 

C. L, RADEMACHEK, 
No. 39 North Fourth St., opposite Applettvc 
Alley. Philidclphia, June 24tri 1846.- 



MODERN PROTEST ANT CHURCH COURTS! 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev., 
George Bourne, exposing some of tlv iniquitous pro^j 
eeedings of Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protestant 
churcn. It should be read by every body. 

For sale at this office, price 31 rnnts. 



To Wine Drinkers 
It is not generally known that wine baths are quite 
•ommon in France — nevertheless, such is th-- ease, 
'he Duke of Clarence is not the only gentleman who 
has enjoyed an immersion in Malm-ey. Punch has 
ird it with the very best Sherry. Only imagine! Punch 
—the verit.ible English P inch — swimmin::, in Fren- 
h wine and kicking, a-id plunging, and laughing, until 
•he tr ars «iu down his cheeks, and never thinking ofthe 
xpense»— a five franc piece! 

'What! a five franc p ece for a tub full <>f wine? 
furrah,! Mac la France!" 
''Gently — gently. At least f fuj other-bathed in the 
e e wine — after Punch. The keener orihe bnr/i\c\\m\ 
> perfew nee for him came fifty o'her -*-making in al' 
Jhj ficc Crane |neces. A good price for the tub." 
"The wine was then 'hrotvn < nt 
"Not at all. Not so, by any means." 
"What then?" 

Bo tled! I'ottio'J, ol«tTOt!feT w 
Bo!ti( d! And for drink, to be sure." 
"Why, for drink to be sure.'' 
"Ft ink/ Who Would drink sttch shifT?" 
"VVl y, tfce Eng ish do^-the Yankee? rl 0 ' 
The latter import it in largo quantities. It is a great 
:"av riio in Yank-eela: )«r. — Sun. Tmei 

A 1 ir^e disliliery Wns tiurherf at Waterioo on the 7lh 
inv-t. va^i.td ai '-'25,000, and in a d'iion to the los.< of 
ttiiiding ami spiiils, JWJ^OO busllo!« of grain Wert 

corns tiflncfh 



CONG REG AT KAN A LIS M AND CHURCH AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
he read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 

Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Office efl 
the Freeman, Boonton, N. J 



LIBER TY MINSTREL. 

A fo v copies of CI .rk's Liberty M nstr d are for 
sale at 'h'x office! 

T'lis is superior to any thing of >hc kind we hive 
seen and -hood be int'c eosscssion Of every brie that 
loves >?ood irinsic, and loves to make a good use of it. 
P ire, 44 cents. 



lioontoft IVasltingtwn Tempera ncr JJcmtvi 
olent Society, -~- meets every Monday eve- 
ning in lite Free Church. Thomas lii.ey 
President, Marcus Evarls iyxreiary. 

&3r»THE UNION MISSIONARY.— This monthly 
paper published at No. 5 Spruce Str ct N. Y., is the 
Organ ofthe Ueion MissitTary Sofiet , a Society 
that refuses donations from S : avc.facridi rs or to empl"/ 
Slacfeholaere in missionary operations It is an ex- 
ceedingly interesting pnjxT, fi led with int resting ac- 
coitirls of the free missionary opi rntififts in Can da, Af- 
rica. Sandwich Island* Stc. All tho-^ who have any 
ino rest in sOch missions, will feel richff rBWaX«led by 
pa'ronizi' g thatpftpef. 

Lewis Tappan is Treasurer of the V. M. Sorietv and 
will be happv to reedtv (hlnations of n»\' »<rl, t r.ecpf' 
•Ck as wrung from the unpaid toil of the .S<»ve, 



1 lli l;v 





fa 



v OL. 



T — ■■—XT _. r 



BOOIVTON OCT', 8* J* 



46 



IS t O. 17* 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL. BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
tfoonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

T E R M S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 

&PEECEI OF HON. JOHN P. EiA£.E, 

IpWn ///e Shivery Resolutions, in the House 
of Representatives, Thursday, June 25, 
1846. 



Mr. Speaker — I have waited, in thcliopc that some 
ithcr gentle man would favor the House with the ex- 
jtession ofhis views oh this question. It was not pay 
ntention, sir. again to have trespassed on your tim 
ind patience in regard this matter, but as a motion has 
3 en made to strike out ihe preamble of the resolution 
[ have had the ho«er to submit, and as the gentleman 
rum Exeter, (Mr. Marslon,) has expresed a doubt of 
;he truthfulness of the statements in that preamble — 
jvhich indeed has more decidedly been called in ques- 
|od by other gentleniei — I am induced, however un- 
wiilin.ly. once more to throw myse f on the indulgence 
W the House. And before I proceed, permit me to ex- 
press my exceediijiJ gratification at the manner in which 
ihe gentlemen from Weare, (Mr. Hadley,) and from 
SaDb'.rnton, ( Air. Sanborn,) ha> e borne themselves in 
the discusion of tins ma ter. Ii gives me great pleasure 
to assure them ot my unfeigni d gratitude for the candid, 
liberal, manly, and dig lfied manner — devoid of slang 
Chk> free trotn d grading personalities — in which they 
have treaica it. 1 rejoiced iharmc day has at last a- 
tived when such a subject demands, commands, and re- 
ceives such treatment from such men. 

Mr. Speaker, the gentlemen from Sanbornfon says he 
fin anti-daveiy man. I don't doubt it. But he also 
pajs that he wants to remain in his party and be an 
a f.-slavery man at the same time. He can't do it sir. 

He says he is a democrat ; I don't doubt that— 
po in the least! But I wish he would go further ,and in 
asserting his democracy, assert also his manhood. 1 
wish he wo dd remember that he is so mething higher & 
nobler than a democrat — a man, an honest man — and 
that he would throw off the party harness and speak 
pu like a mar, / But ho can't — because he wants to 
stay in his party. I wanted to stay in the party too. 
But I couldn't, because it seemed prBper to me to speak 
piy sentiments on one peculiar topic. There va< a 
/eehnu'in my hem* in relation to slavery and Us exten 
picn which I desired to express. It was imcomfbrtiblc 
to keep it bosomed up. I did express it ; the exper- 
iment v as tried ; and the result was — / could not stay in 
thot party. The p rty cry of "throwing overboard"— 
beginning with me and going on till at last they had n 
. hands enough to man the ship . Sir, I sincerely sympa • 
thize with my friend. He vt ill scon lie at issue will 
,his party and cast out of the ranks, unless tfeey hnv. 
Jear.'ied something from the past. What was it fh< 
penlleman said — erperientia doeet ? 1 had nearly to, 
. ghtteu my Latin, sir, but I suppose the plain EngH:.! 
of that experhutcc ilosos ; and truly, u:i!;-ss the part; 
have had dose? enough of ex peyjence lately, mv frieni 
; ca.mot long stay wiih them ! So much for that. 

But the gentleman from Exeter do- s not like the p-c 
► amble, though assenting to the roso utinh. He ia lilt 1 
L the man who found no fault with the cn'.^rtainment at : 
i public table; but could not rtlfcb ths trimmings. 71 
■ puii'-m.-nis of this preamb'-: are ^iftimjngs-and aw the; 



not all true ? The gentleman objected to the declaration 
that the purpose of gprernment, in annexing Texas, 
was to strengthen am' perpetuate human slavery. Jt 
is not true? There are some things, sir, to bj taken for 
granted — so obvious as to need no attempt at proot. 
Circh s, for instance, arc not squares, and squares art- 
not circles; and, if this be an axom in mathematics, there 
are in ethics and politics, other things equally axioms. 
This declaration is one such thing, and I really hatt net 
supposed lhat ene man could be found with mind su..i 
cient to com rei.end the position, who would venture to 
doubt its entire truth. Is ah that to be gone over 
a^airi? Has it come to this, that in the Legislature ot 
New Hampshire, on the 25th of June, 1846, we art 
called upon to prove thai the express purpose — n»t the 
safe purp- seas had been erroneously quoted, though th 
.-tutemeut would he entirely coned even io thai ex 
tent— that the express puposeoi govevment in t e an- 
nexation of Texas was io extend a;4 psrpetuuate slav - 
ry? if it has, then I don,t know what we shall not bt 
called upon to prove! Why, sir— wilt gendeipcp admit 
the existence of Texas? ' Will they allow itytf there i> 
any such country? That there are dj&trenl shades oi 
color among i;s inhabitants? They may deny it if the> 
choose, buL it is true for ail that, and the assertion m this 
preamble is just as true. 

• How, Mr. S eakcr does government act in any ques- 
tion, ( xcept through its regular co.iStituiion.il organs: 
And when the Secretary of ihe United St.tes speaks by 
direction < f the President, and when Gpngrcss has. s its 
official action, upon the Secretary,s communications, 
then I say that government speaks afid acts — or else 
we have no action of the government. Th. resol >tion 
does not say that Mr Woodury, or Mr, Buchanan, or 

Mr. anv one else sought this annexation -for tha pur- 

, — ii syeaits Oi 

pos . but that the «> 

the government. Government desn-ed to have lexas 
for the sake of extending slavery! And let any gentle- 
man stand up if he dare, and deny the truth of this/ 
Whv, sir! this extension and perpetuation of negro 
slavery * a- the prominent feature, the great m-ri. oi 
the whole affair. It was avowed and declared plainly, 
boW'v, ba'dl., and uncqivoealy— and. till io day, 1 had 
supposed the matter to plain to be questioned- Look 
at what is said by Mr. Upshur, then Secratary of State, 
in a letter to Mr Murphv,da -d Au-us: 8th, 1843. 

" Few calamities could befall this country more to be 
deolored, than the establi-hment cia , .redominant Br I "sh 
influence and the abolition of domestic „ tt» J-cx- 

Here we have it. The greatest calamines the United 
States could experience are, says Mr. Up.>hu:-, l»."'h 
establishment of a pr- dominating British influence;" a ;d 
2d—" fhe abolition of domestic slavery^ iq Texas." 
C an this be misunderstood? And again, the samt 
. ecratary says, Jan. 1G, 1&44 

•I will only add,lhat if Texas should not be a'tached i 
lie tJni ed Staies,sh • o'a i lot mamtim that institution 
slavery] ten years,probably not half thai tare.'' 

Is thai plain? Do gentlemen undersr.afld that. U«»- 
essTexes were annexed to this coun'n. »l« c< old no, 
■n dntain slavery ten years, and probacy hoi five— ane 
o prevent the abolition of slave.y lK $ project it an 
Hexnlion has been urged again and r.gr.in, til! at la*t it if 

I Jfected. I 

Turn now to the deda.attons <i Mr. Secratary pnl 
■oun. U his letter to Mr. Faekenham, ApiJ lb, 
>e holds this language: 



world [theaho ilion cfstavry,] so far from being vAsy. 
or humane, site waild involv hjrtbe calamity the v. hoi-! 
e -uutry, and especial y the rich wliiotiit'is thcavoACd 
object of her exertions to benefit ." 

And to Mr. Green, the next day, he says-r 
"Thtistep [a-tnexation] was forced on the govern 
mentofiheU. S. States in self-defence, in consequence 
of the policy adopted by Great Britain in rcfiiepccto 
■he abolition of slavery in Texas. It was lmpossmle 
for the United to witness with indifference the ef torts oi 
Great Britain to abolish slavery there. They could not 
hut see that she had the means in her power, in the ac- 
tual condition of Texas to accomplish the object of her 
policy unless prevented by the most efficient measures; 
and that, if accomplished, it would lead to a state ot 
things dangerous in the extreme to the adjacent States, 
and the Union itself. Seeing this, the government had 
ocencomp lied, by .the necessity of the case, and re- 
gard toils constitutional obligation, to take the step it 
las, as the only certain and effectual means ofprevtn- 
;ng it." 

Why, this elvers the ground all over. "The only 
iiertam and effectual jneans of preventing it ." Pre- 
venting what? What but the abolition of slaver. , which. 
Mr. Upshur had before designated as one "of the great - 
•st calamities that could be'al this country!" Noihinj- 
-dsein the world but this. Why, lh<n, does any 
gentleman— how can any gentleman, in view of these 
official declarations, 'say that the government has ift.J 
soui-htthe annexation of /Texas for the purpose of 
maintaining and extending slavery! I am utterly as- 
ionishi d at it; and the more so because, in all the di- 
plomatic correspondence on the subject, the capdor with 
which this object was avowed is worthy of all praise, 
whatever be the character of the object itse f. Then it 
:his be so, as is clearly show u, why not say s'>? V\ i-.y 
not declare it? Gentlemen say it is not expedient. 
Sir, I know n»*hi-g of that expediency which seeks to 



"Without, i h e ii , c ( > n t ro v crt 'ng 



lie wism-m 



ikI y 

anUy ' f the polu'v of Great Brir.ain.so htr as iv rpwti 
.osscfc-ious are concerned, it maybe sate-y atlp-mecl; 
. i:houl ref.-rt-r.ee the means by y-Hb * «ould b 
..:;:.cted. thal,cqu!d she succeed i.n acc|m|>Mv'.tig »| ' 
Fil-lfd Sl.tes vhalshe avows to ! . Lev (Vsttv, an. -|.< 
jbicrt of hetcor^tan! ex.cr.iofts to <.ixM t}tS?)' ! J? Q«' tW 



y— speak it boldly— stifle it not. I have been in the 
habit of speaking out, and I think it is expedient. 

Here Mr. Hale gives a number of quotations from 
leading Democratic papers and a series of resolutions a- 
doptdbs Congrssin 1839 showing the Democratic 
party to be rank prosiavery thtnghdut, 

"Here we h;vo it solemnly declared that the imme- 
diate abolition ofslaven by whatever means c-fiected- - 
whether trom motives of benevolence or principles t>( 
philanthropv, fvem the operation of christian love Br 
•he holy inlluenee of ihe christian religio;.— would be 
productive of cab- mities t> be depreciated by every 
every frie d .d bumanity/ These resolutions passed the 
House by a vo e ot IVf to 69, and among the a-es are 
ihe very O ht " P*^- 8uch is tiip c: ° C;ril,e ol 

he d mocralic party, as torn aly annr.ot.r.ced a- d pw>.- 
c'ain ed bo the leaders, under their owjh hand and seal, 
And vet we are accused ofcpeat iniu&tiee in regardir:;; 
the patty as a s avery party. With what pretence of 
reason this accusation is made, every candid man vi.i 
Udge. And we hav onh to cast cur t yes back from 
yea* to y.-ai . to see hoyv laithfully and fully these p: in- 
: r l -s and itMritocs nave been acted up to and carried 
,Jt. Take for oxamnte a single injMon'o, the case of 
■ lie priming establishment of ihe Er- t will Bit-i-t soci- 
lv in rover. ft is an extensive concern, puLI'sh-r.'r 
x religious periodical,, ai^ printing a large number of 
liibUaud miss.onaiy hcohs. Si m.: j. arssyice thegrp 
..n-iiiior* applied to the kgislaturc for .-n act ot ^coipo 
at.im, thcbet<er to enabh them to cany on their db- 
i;ct, Tiiefequ- *t was "favembly enUM-taimd, every 
vviminclv, and the defied charttt 



thiHg war; going cu sw mutiny, 
wn/almcst-gninled-whtn s.^rdeel. semcbedy £0:c] 
bat he had beard that lhepa ( er had been uttering npi»- 
,,,s favorable to tibolition.-Tl.o II. u^gwas * 
.« tha hare •<!<•:•-/ The biF j.yas rejected at eacc, aru twn 
fat time <iii t!.ci)-.-i ,.,K,n,t!,M>.,b!M.r:,»t U-» 




nslature ic 



beer, knocking at the doors of the Lk _ 
pic act of incorporation, which ccuid not be obtained 
because the editor of the paper had b<-en Suspteted oi 
the heinous am of advocating '.lie aLoih.on ot si - very. 
Furthermore, I appeal to tae experience i t n-i who 
htar me to t- stuy i{ jor some years it uao not the cast 
in _\ew Hampshire, that any one promulgating s. 
merits at aii appioachmg toabolitN tutju, was instantly a 
doomed mau. jSot a church membt t, even how gooa 
and now pious Soever he might oc, couiu rise ... & chinch 
or prayer-meeting and uttei a word in pekaii vi t^<. 
stncKon siave, bu. tic was branded ant. de ounced a. 
once, iie cou.u no* Oc elected the i»<.x. day .o me oi..c. 
Oi constable. Every body knows these tacts. 

But g<_miemen say Uicre. aa tan no cuange - Let 
m - asi wr.ere was the democratic £.-1-,/ a* the i>o. .., 
tec years or iiv ; years — or ev<en three ^cais ago — . n 
founu upon mis scheme oi Texas ann* i.ajou. < — lo 
a man they, wnere o^j.us u to it. i he te&uiug ^ .rnocra. 
ic paper .n me coumj o. tiiiisbtut>ugn,ihe x>asnua 
Zette, so ta v e as x\ov. iota lo-iu — vn,...u..;.cu ...^ kt . 
ana des.gn oi annexation to oe *w </-«..<.» a* — us ou- 
ter as /icuJ" ine ucn»oo«a...c o.^o m mv omu h,v,,. 
ex reosca ninuiva opi lotid. Auu ihelSew Jhtaaipiuui'i 
Patr-ot— -me amma^u ate, unci.ai.ig . u.o e i atrio. — , 
May, rd-i-i, Spob.e lhtb>? 

"Slavery ana tne u„icnce of slavery from the coniro 

jng coasiuera-.oa cgcu .n iavu. 01 thx fcita _) v . 

ton i oy mos who nave o ea eatjaa u in 
10 tliese doctrines w cau Jicifn .ui*oi.ui, a.i 

ever they are ou^usiveij u. ri cd a^oa aic iree auitetyhs 

deserve to oe poiua=uij reLuo.. u. ' 

Slavery aau tne ucieuce ol s.av-jy deserve to U 

""poimeoiy reDukea n ucrc .ue f&9»e pouUea , t 

i-«<ss.' r" anted the oth r way. Yet the />uriu ..asiuv 

er jnangtu! uu, uo — certainly not. u .j, wher^e •. 

a./.ayo baa oecn. xt, ery thing is whirhog round .... 

round aoout it, whue it semains, iujeii, »i au^. a... 

U-.aoved. air, were no. -»u w u Uj at .00 s>er. U c .0 0 . 

i b -j. treateo, i a., -a a oaj um. i«e reoeailjf assume. 

posiii <n Oige .ilcmt n oa .1^ aii^c rc-miuuetl u.e c. 

tn V SSSfl Spiff! Pft ; •* ; - s m aii . 

in. ,u„ ot nw a d-ofta.ntfr, ^ ....... tt i .l. u . u 

tne be snoutd com^ ro^d, io ana. I ^ v, il ujC 

sa that tua Wu ais.j.y il'lhss g-ope catt't twW 3l , 

pr thgt.c a change, as .a a o. u .. a u ilJ ,„l li .,L ^ ^ 

Upon this i exa. juestioii. A cl.a„gc a .00 t , .." 

er reason or afgurneai specious or pot,nt,, ior iv; ^ . 

jU— j am v.i'' ^.ic. U. *v.v.,t. u ,..«U Lu.ju.ri;, u: 

auauce a a.oa'. poicO. argument. i.. a . p^per, ^n . 
the comiu nee 01 01 feoyernment, expfun^ij pjroci^ ... , 



-—now 



Secretary of the Tfeasiiry — who first ihre.w 
■ut the insOli m threat of disunion against the north. 
Let the in iignatlon of my friends be visited where it 



jtiSt. 



v b 



asrs. 



an . Xa- 
>tiauoa 

V.l.l.-li 



thai ...on; 



L/jj^o.e^ uue u .oil 01 1 c /.as "iiu. 



nc aiag .0 expec. uo.u the adjaitaisirauon; " iun*s in* 
dc;eu wa. su.aa.miig no. .0 o_ ju-4-j...a — u.iu b ,.otd, tn 
tt.e ve.y .y^ea-wUueJi a moaia U;lo,e i.a^ dvnouuco<i 
the sc.itiiic no ••jUv.j. ui ./.»-, ^ (tutcr .;, bell, a • 
dee.aivo i. 10 Oe a.;_.;ttr than u.<- ..io.i.il^ »,ar and 
sweeter .nan aie m.a _v . ..... . And «--.cr correct 

and coasis aat New tiampsmre .a .,o. uccd .0 n. 
rigut ao .^u., agin ut. * * * * 

Sow for a.,o. a erpa a.. Tie g uidema.. from San- 
bornoa s horroi s.nci nal tue lueaul the ui».i 1 1. o 
this.: (fjaited States.— <alj am 1. ij u . tvho fkst iu- 
tradac^.d tiie :1a ofdianioain this couneeti a.' i 
wa,jj >q -i: 4 . thaa t-jj^rt J.* vVtr^-r, toe p/esen 
Sec/ecaryof '.he Tj-easuiv. la his ie...e- o Bie e. :.. :. 
of Caroll county, Ky^dated Jao,- 8th, 1844,he.aaya- 
«pe*jsing of J.he nap xation of I'-xas.— 

"One of these re^uiis ,s certata to follow tb-> rc f ns • 
of re-i.a.i :xi ion. i.,-. vc •>••/. <;.a/ ( oft hi so-'k ■ 
Bonlhwesi f, om the north, and their re mm with Tours— 
o. 2d. --.air to ai .)v.;r.ii.o-.v of he arid - .! • t , r . 
te^ofu o ,1.!, d smuggling throagh 'IV .s a, in-.o ti. 
vet and oou.;. west. ' 

Tn-j first in I g ( ,.,J result-) aec irdinf t Mr. VSVk*r 
of a refusal to annex Texas, woald be theaeparaiiqn o. 
the south and soul n v.- s from the oerjih, u,a s. it >\. 
shod.; d.-c:itv -oai.n x Texas, to us. thty. wptiMgoo{ 
pid annex themselves >o her. Now, do not let i . a. 
in oar teeth that we are ;h advoca es offsuaion upon 
this g ound- It was th^fathir of the scWa himselj 



!' ' . .i.i, a^ain, that this matter of Texas annexation 

was ail s tiled by the people at the last election. Mr. 
Polk went before them as champion ot the schema, 
..lid \va> chbsen. Nothing more, iheref re, can be 
>aid. i am glad to hear that too. But was there not 
something elsa settled by that election^ Did any body 
v r n ar &{ K Texaf and 0 -e : ,onP' In my recollection 
at least, the two words are as intimately connected as 
v. -jie the names of "Tippecanoe nnd T\k-r t';o' 5 in 
1840. And 1 think we ali rtrn ruler what loving 
winsthes< same Texas and Oregon were at the Balti- 
nicre Convention. Weil, we l.a\e £<t I121*, blit 
iheri is U.-e -or.? — Have we got that too? 1 rather 
u. ss we .have' I bciiev : that we owned the whole ol 
egi.n uf 10 54deg-. 40 min. (Some genth man cor- 
•< ct-d Mr. II., it was up to 54dcg Mr. Hale reaum 
-d.) Weil, sir, up (o a slight declension, psspana- 
ory, perhaps, to the final s^'.t! men: on 411 deg. But, 
til any ra.e. Pi ;sident Poik has repeatedl}/ declarer 
d at our title to 54 deg. 40 mm. was clear ai.d un 
questionable, and shou.d not be relinquithod, and the 
dt mocratic ju. j throughout the Union have r»-solved 
he s:nme thing over and over again. Ai d if I do no 
!]i.-:ak' j , ouri%ew Hampshire L gislature has passed 
^suiuti ns commendatory of the President's firmness in 
(inducting an mun.a;ning the controversy! 

Mr. Speaker, 1 said last year that government was 
nsincere in .is declaration* — that it did not mean wha; 

professed to ru-an — that in his Orcg n question Great 
bntain w 1,1.10 take what she wanted :ir.d leave us wha 
4.e o.ob't v flat. For this, 1 was denounced as a falsifier 
thof wha. hr,d gOHe before and of what was to com: 
dter. 1 was brandhd <as ewety thing that was b se— 
ifigmatised a> a tiaiucer, liar, slanderer, and I know 
c what- dttij because I.tar-dpub'icly to < x press wha 
verv m« n of com non sense ktii w. that our govern 
■i it- ut Aoujd «.jvc- up Oregon— the whole of it — anc 

•• c j-u^jBu,!,., Ti;u.. n ^» n11 

• ' " ' ■ :'• w t- nec- wary to the mamtananc- 
fUw ..eca-ar insdnMion.-. Since then, sir. what 
claimed of Otegan ha-v been garrisoned by Britisi 
►op Am ri san tfad have pursued their avocation, 
er tie vat oi British tor's and the folds 01 
- ''- !s!i fla ? s >•■>« ■■ -«v«! been protected by th< 
1 1 of Brjt&g bavon. ts. Qflg what of all that? 
ipv lament l as sr. • d the boundary on the lini ot 
deg and f ti man van s to slay in"the party,"he 
1 us come !• tea 54 <:• a 40 mm. dovn 10 that liae-am. 

' a loo v . , ,a. anv cl an ro 

- " \ 

The Texas question, however, says the gentleman 
roni '.*• ar -~ s 5etl!ed final y, the iime tor tppusition 
..• ^one by, no we hare notuhig more tod-> with the- 

matt t. \ 

How is It settled? O' ly twenty per cent cf it is set- 

ed. Our ntaie has b- <«n admitted from Texas, bui 
liere are ft ur mo e— lot; fifei » of the whole yet to come, 
ettlcd? ( •■• >& !vp>.: need not lay "the fla tering utic- 
•>n to the-r s-ouis." The question is r.ot seid d. It 
•ili never be set let! so long as a God of righteousness 
u 1 th • throfk of eternit , an-i holds, a^ he assured- 
v wi nations- as well individuals to a just acount, until 
nati n shall ha$» repented of i,s sin in sackcloqh 
ud ashes, a ci brings forth fruit meet for repentance. 

g ntleman <-annot evade lh' question. Jt will mt- 
• « hmj to ihi fireside hearth, it will haunt him in the 
: avo. ations of life, will pros itself upon him even 
tore aii. rp of the Most High, and not in the hild- 
sl m Imo it irvc-s-oie rsc ss-s of New Hampshire'.-. 
loud capped mouhtaius-can be ho|>ed to escape it, or 
from it. SelBlafl? Sapppse that in 1776 when 
■e fathers i our country mel in Patteuil Hali. to con- 
n, ' l)Vi: ^ B r r sisling he tyranny of England, eup- 
osetbai <>n 6ne of these settling politicians hac asked 
hem • ha theycouW do. Pariimcnt had pass d the 
■ 'ai.'.p art yniMlte tea lax. bol* Lords and ( cmmoi s 



question was all set' led, and what couid they do 
submit? What would have been there answer but • 
— that they would have a settlement with the setfj 
That is what we want, and what the people will hi 
Or suepose that you, sir, entrust to an attorney, 
conduct uf a suil against a dishonest d btor.. The 
league together, the debtor pavs over a sum of hid 
to the attorn, y, and hen ^uu ask of the latter how] 
business is going on, you are told "it's ail right, 
matter is settled." Would you not be likely, sir, 
have a settlement with the attorney? According to 
system of ethics, morals, and politics now set up by 
gentleman and his friends, if a man threatens to bi 
\ our dwelling — so long as he omy threes,:.., \< i. ea 
deal wilh him by conrse of law, Lut when he goes 1 
to app y the torch, u hen the flames crackle, and f 
smoke assends to heaven, and the traits oi luo'« n.dj 
-ry aie iaid in ruins in an hour, — oh! then .he misci 
is done, the thing issetdc , and you must be excecuni 
ly unreasonable person to complain at aii about it. 
* * * * # 

But the gent eman fr m Sanbornton is opposJ 
slavery! So he may be-so he is, as far as many otj 
are opposed to it, tad tliat is just so far a» such J 
position will not aiiect .he ijemocraiic party. "B 
him mat siavery is an cvil,*a curse and a v\rong~j 
ass"ins of course, bay to him that it ou ht t 
abolished-, he agrees without hesitation. Lu. ask hi 
tohelppiace iNew Hampshire light on ihi„ sub J 
and he stops short. That would t.urc the DemocrJ 
j-arty-he can't stand that, fcuch is the case with lifl 
anu he is not singular in the position ci.her.-'I l.uc..-.ai>4 
.n both the Wh,g and Democratic ranks occupy pM 
cisely the same ground. Sometime ago I cr.anct-d I 
speak ou this subject ai Ke no, and a the close ot m 
meeting a Wi..g sa.d to a Demociatic tfieuu— "VV«1 
what do you think of this? Your party dare not to J 
nis question ior tear of political injury." ".Bui,' askl 
he other,:'how is it with you." "Oh!"was the repil 
"the Whigs have always been risht on the matte! 
io it is. the Democrats do not care h w far tfl 
uesiion may split up the Whigs-the Whigs art wiiiiil 
should entirely distract the Democrat— the Ai 
ohtionists like to see both parties crumble. EadJ 
ooksout for himself while the common cry is-"o. rJ 
ouch oar party— let our party alone." The genllen.J 
trom teanbomton says so himself, and is hon stin J 
-a.ing— Be seems to think, however, that the moi 



.ad Vv. tea the bills, a (. 



u nt is only got up here now to ensure the success oil 
the- allied army" -as it has r-certiy be. n • an ..— I 
over the Dem cracy.-Sir the Democracy of New t ^a.p*! 
-hire can never again rs»Hy around their ancirnt s anfl| 
rd. T at is torn"to tatters- to very rags'." 1 i avil 
seen a great ma y Democrats, lately, but I ha J] 
not yet met the first man, strange to say, who was nj 
aiwaysopposed to the course of the parte on this topf j 
and upon the radical measer s it has sat-'ained. ISev^H 
aieeed. was a poor banding more uncenmon: uslil 
.ticked into the street by its own friends and .'a her'ttl 
hsn the Democratic policy of this State has been ?in<J| 
the last election, by th Democrats themselves. Thl 
only danger the other side have now to .pprehend, ifl 
he recoil. Democracy may take the bark trade pcrJ 
i^.aps ,and seek to outstrip its opponent in that path. 1 
rh( party may possibly go alio d of us :u our . w»ffl 
load, but thai it will ever a am be organized under theH 
dictation of the Patriot, or upon the platform of lS3d.U 
1 have no fears. That question is settled', be it as it If 
may with the Ttxns question. 

ti n thee same geiuiemen, sir, do great and monst- 
rous injustice to their friends abroad, 'their conduct |J 
wards their southern brethren, is me an in the extreme] 
-- W by dout they come out with the openness and can-* 
dor ofihe south on this- subject? I wish, while they all 
.'.old Mr. Calhoun's pernicious fiews and erroneous oJ 
pinio s. the) had hall his honesty & straightlcrwurdm s« 
in avowing and defending ibcm. It is relishing iou:.d 
such lung., a re as we find from Mr. Calhoun am! «rov| 
Hammond, after the n iserable and cputemptable t\ ad« 
tl eking had signed them. I'heJdle we ate surfoilcd wilh here M ihenoiih .hearken to I 



I 



the last srentleman I named;. I sa faa PP ei * th * W M> t am cai eci from iife, i siiail ; l0 p C tj:{l - now at least some trulh w ,11 be told that shall 

'"ldufik then i may safely <$oaclude,-.aad I firmly bet | L * v " m,: ^iVi«Oti who m\ ? think i e of impor |;^ike eonyictioft to. tlip mia^ o£ 4* SEE^sor, some 

li vo tii .i American Slavery is nt« atiiy nut a sm, but eattugh. to nave a #0#F W i»'.i'kfflj 



e p L-.d. ly eommanded ny Gou trwanrgi? mioses, and ap- 
proved-by Cm-is., uirou-h.his. Aj»ostl- s. And he** 1 
might cuse iis..d« .& uce; tor what urotLooiaiu* and Christ 
sail a s, shouid surely command the respect and to- 
era ..-n oi man. " 

I like that. Gov. Hammond thinks so and he- s ys 
so baldly These u> no ev sion, no dodging, no skui«c- 
in 6 h re. He marches up Is to tn hue, and Fays that 
aaefifhe 'ight down^ without quilling or reservation. 
A. 0 life g- a u>a 1 from Sanbornlori too must march 
right up and Pace the mark, or he will be exeommmea 
t 6. an driven out oi uie parly. 

"1 endorse wit -out reserve the much abused sentimen; 
oi Gov. JVkDutbe, chat Slavery is ih ■ corner stone bi 
tu. r. puot.ea.. > uificej while 1 repuuiate m> ridiculously 
absutU, ma mucii lauded but no where accredited uog 
ma oi Mr. jetierson, that au men are born equal." 

Right, sir, right! What wretchcu nonsense for the 
Democracy oi ;>ew Hampshire to rtsoBe t at the ab- 
olition oj slavery would be a public calamity » and a. 
tilt same time preteau io ave an thing a> do- with vha. 
aw ma, oi jekeisou., uov. Hammond throws ittniirely 
aside, ..iiu under his management the car moves on 
but ho 1 are oiirjttwth in democrat^, to reconcile these 
two Jeifersons, ttie one with me othei ? They acknowi 
edge .he au.th r. y of both, how are they to be made to 
appear consistent/ Sir, the party is sadly in need • :• 
Buine poweri'u apparatus, some grand alembic in Whicl 
lit, discordant coisponems may be brought together, and 
by sota pat' at pr. cess of political alchemy transformed 
into a harmoni us, beautiful, pro-slavery, pro-Texa: 
conglom rateu and aggregate democracy! Mr Speak 
er, . -m'e ien cannot receoncile their actions with their 
professions, their conduct with their creed — n .r car. 
theydeiad then course on any ground of consistency 
It cannot be d >ne. If God be their God, let them serve 
him, but if Ba i let tin m serve Baal. But do no; 1 
us, the legislature .-.fiNew Hampshire, be guilt v of the 
miserable uiconsistancy of professing to abhor slavery, 
and yei striving for its perpetuation: # # * 

Th«*re is another t< pic, sir, connected with this, on 
which the p ople have a right to know .he sent men „s 
of tln-ir public men. I rm aa the prese"t war wiih Mex- 
ico. I had i ccasion io s-iy something about that the 
othrda,, and the -emk-in.n from Weare sterns t 
thn* t. a 1 have got into an embarrassing dilemma be- 
came I denounced the war and its authors, while a' 
the same time my friend from Keene(G> n. Wilspn)had 
v imueer- d for it. As to that I tell the member from 
We ire, nd ever- beby else, that I am sure '> y friend 
from Keen does not want me to stand up here and at- 
tend any defence qi hi* course. He is abie to protect 
h'rrJi If fully and amply; and it would be au irist*lt to 
him an3 Ui" House, forme to offer a syllable in his 
aid. — Whenever and how- ver he may be assadd — 
whather in the legislative hall or upon the field of bat- 
tle, whether by the tongue of an opponent in debate or 
th sword of an enem- in euiuliet — the en alive arm of 
tre' Almighty has never yet made that man on whom 
the jreni.ieman fr«.n» K«ene would call for help. — i 
phaU s y nothin:; concerning him. Bu^ 1 will sav, thai 
8s regards myself — and I sa- so with all due hu . ility— 
J am aid"! to take care of myself on this war question. 

1 am neither unable nor afraid to speak out upon 

it. 



tave, i am ! 

e ttrely widing -o let it be recotdeii upon it — *ih<- msyi 
\iho denounced. the Mexican v. m." 'liie scir me or 
am.exad>.n -md the const qui nt \-ar ii^e uneqVdied in 
tii.ar i lam , arm wi I be to regarded by figure ages. 

borne may look upon the t-ta ion of i'oland as a 
parallel to this case. Sir, it is n 
i-s '.his difference beivven tne 
i'l-us^ia never pretended t>» free c unifies; thei 
sovereigns said that ru;ei - s were ie^onsib.e to Heaven 
lor the government ot the earth, and as they did not 
much iis.e the then^governmoni ot i'o-and tae> cm her 



,rt touch to it. There 
KujS:a, Austria, &. 



coibitu. iaao.i«. uigtd that shall tighten the gail'ng. '.eke 
ol h n-.uge. iit speaks, and wna. is piace: He is in 
tin or o{ .-. ha ? V^hy of iiperty in the abstract — until 
the assertion of liberal doctrine to rches the democratic 
pi it. , when .o! he turns aroun-.., ana totes gidi by side 
tfa *r • Tber bouth Caroli a, jus-t exactly, and 
just so ttr as tne slaveho o.ei w ish. s him to vote. Do 
you not a*»e that ttns man exerts tar more ifluence in ia- 
vor of slavery than the Other? Is it not plain bat his 
voice ; « ten thousand times mort po.ent thun any voic c 
from the South, to perpetuate the accurstd institution 
an« rivet still more ti^miy the letters on the thrall- b w- 



hey inaue n • lying pretence u- v. 



n peices and shared her territory belw e< <• t;.. m. jl-u ; ed slave?" Lei any gentlemen deny it if lie can. YVouul 

to bou it ec^./a be domed! 

But, say gentfema , we should cor fine our action to 
our own state. Well, sir, that is precisely what this 
resolution does, It w as th« good old doctrine, sir, :o 
confins atii< n en this subject io the States themselves 
and I -wist) it b$d remai ed to this day. Because, then, 
the present stat - of things would not have occurred 
This new ex e. nient <•!' annexing a foreign country to 
the Union tor thi rnrpose of perp tan ing slavery, wou d 
aot hav t>- en ,p.eu. Bui becausi. this state of thm.". 
.'v. t e^ist, and because this fxperimem. has been true 
- -ii .).-, is the ver r ason why Ik . ople of the free 
a-, a s ; n#d rise up in their might within those i-laies. 
and'declari their will that the experiment shali go in 
urther. Let us do so here. And wht n the second " 
Texan siate s'<ail come to -isk admission into the Re- 
public, do not let n be a member it%>m i\ew Hampshm 
that sba I rise in his pt&ee and pbji ct to the very enter- 
ainmem ot discussion on the question of slavery with- 
in the limits of the new-cornner. That was the case in 
he last C ongress; let it neyer happen again! It is our 



I said before, 



a this wur — the result of Texan an 



licxatron — was "un- a.-ail leu in infamy in the anna s ot 
in- d rn history.'' — '1 hat was my expression, an J were 
jpome dispi nsing pow< r now u< profierrae the chance to 
■fetract that declaration, 1 would not doit. 1 r> peat, .sir. 
the «••«»• is ujtpatajfekd i« modem hist pry. I care not 
whjQtfighis its W-th s or who s rives to vindicate its 
.origin Tne p -:jt up thunders if denunci itioji against 
federalisiTi and *W that, which more tiian thirty y< ars 
a'*o were burled a'l th ■ Hartfo d Convention, may now 
ft'' be htilletl a; ine — I care not. t repeat the declara- 
tor — I abi ie hy it — the »var :.v unparalleled in infamy' 

1 never c*p or will admit the contrary. And, sir, if it | ip^^ pyntj,, h 



matter — the 

did th- deed under no veil • i fej pociisy. 1-i.ey uiu no< 
come b fore the u t on er im. world with long laces 
.aid canang tongues, to talk about 'ej leniiiu^ ike area oj 
freedom.' i>o, s»r, thev came ou-. oo U.y aau av- • •> ed 
their real object and niot.vcs — tbey said what the^ 
meant, atid because tne. tUd so, they viil oceu ya 
higher plaee ih history than we shall— a. least in re- 
gard to this transaction. — i»ir.. Ca « oun , indeed w a-- 
no d enough to .oil th .»a .>.. H.e towit i'exa-> in ord • 
to extend the area ofsiavcr.A, ano he u nes.:y says so. 

If his friends at the iior.h had been equally candid 
hey would not have r'.ndtr ct thn):st ivts liable t- lb 
Jhitrge of contemptible h pocrisy. IN o fault cou'd havi 
beieh fou. »d with, them on that s,.-ore. *- * * * 

Mr. Ben. on, in the Senate ol th United States, has 
ably rt-ated this matt r, and it were .o be w istu-d Ida; 
some of his political alius wcr.e bi.it as honest in regard 
o it. B- f ;re the treaty of annexation was ratified and 
be preseal war had arisen, hi adorned in- so rcur po- 
sitions and he proved the at, tooj 

1st — That the ratification of the treaty would be, o! 
self, v.ar between the U. S. and Mexico. 
2d — That it wou d be an unjust war. 
2d — That it would be war uncenstit tiona'ly made. 
4th — Tha' it wouki be 3 war Uj.on w> aa and ground- 
less pretexts. 

This was what Mr. Benton declared. — Well, sir, we 
have the w ar now — a d ]■ t me ask if it be not all h-' 
said it would be. Is it not unjust. I thi k so, and 
many of the people think so likewise. Was k no' 
made inconsistency with the provisions of the Constitu- 
tion? If tin se provisions mean ai y tl ing atali. or have 
any force whatever, itreleaily was. Was il not made 
upon a weak and groundless pretext? Sir 1 was a oo 
to say it was, but 1 should ha.e been wrong. The ad- 
ministration ha i not ingenuity enough io get up evi n a 
a groundless pretext/ They couldn't raise one. and 
therefore they resorted to an absolute ana b.refae d tats- 
hood m the pr amble of their c< cla a. ion. * * * 
Sir. if God w re to night to judg ' the peopb for the 
sin cfS'a'try, INew Hampshire would drink morede p- 
iy of I he bi'ter cop of retribution than South Carolina 
herself. Las! year N. Hampshire a gi ater b..r ot 
Liberty, stood more in tlie w a offreeuein than South 
Carolina. And why? 1 will tell you why. — When the 
subject pf S ave iy is introduced o: tin- fl or of Cot gres- 
u member from Sputh Carolina rises and addresses th 
House. He goes of course, in fat or oi slavery — he 
speaks for it, and vets for it— -upholds it in all its reia 
■ions— and support*, in order to misiatn it, the gag-rue. 
ihe Mexican war, a o eve y thing else, which tends In 
as favor. Lot of wh t a»'.il i? all 'hi-? He exejfcisns 
no influence — not a panicle — except so far at: his ow u 
individual vote goes — because he is pleading bis uwi 
case. Slavery is his peculiar institution. Ho mus' 
support iti — he cannot do jotberwisel But n>-xt rises 
•i m. ;nb- r from Kevvhampshire. Eve = y eye is fixed 
upon him— ■ '-a r y t ;>.r is oo ..ed w ide to h ar v. ! at he 
may uttr.r.r— Here-.r- this is the fee.iip,gT— here comes ane 
from the KSibra tor of L'emoeiacy '. — the ntrr a'n borne 



of 'iberty— whoso winds breathe of libenty as "y sweep 
throuch the val lies, wli'ise eagles sort art of Mi-erly as 
hey soar abov.- h'-r i'wer«:gi-i!i:?. V^l ?thasfe (osay? 

' rcasts of tin? op.-res.seu toivb I'tigh Vv.tii 



i> pievent i , and when we remember that it was kf 
o a hew Hampshire Represenotilve-~»;o the cyerlastm c - 
nonor or disgrace (I will not a >.p mt to say .which,, gen-/, i 
tiem' n < an judge for themselves) of he State — to object 
o the iceeption of a resolution cone rm ig a purtion cf 
free territory in T * s — when we reccolhct this, 1 say, 
we are called upon by every consideration to take a i 
care, within th« constitutional- spbvre of action that such 
a thing shali, no.! a kk oetur. * * * * 
Sir, 1 stand iiere tospt ak, not to parties hut to men 
Yet I will tell bo h Wh gs and Democrats that, if 
the\ attach themselves to 'tie principles of slavery, . 
there io no salvation tor them. The car winch h t. 
started on its progri .«•. will crush 'o a^oms.ben' ath its pun 
deirous wheels^ whatever otstatte may intervene. %\m 
Democrats have alnead\ experienced a part of the ef 
f-c:s, am' if. not .he Whigs flatter, tl.tmse.lves tha". 
efforts can ivatl to st p that onward progres- which ha:. 
•j e nd their rivais to powder I done pretend to bt. 
advised of ti c course of the Whigs on 'his m< asure,nc; 
oi T. Democrat?, (excefrt in so far as they say the ■/ 
never change,) but 1 sav to them loih that the force of 
freedom will be to ■ slion » for both of them. Tie 
ureal hosts in favor of liberty are marsha ling for llW 
eon e.-.t — anu .'/tey will romjuei, whatever be oj'postd. 
To oi- su:ces~lui, all parties must join w ilh tin m. 
There is ground enough-~Jjigher ground than has jet 
beea occupied, lltough destined seen lobe taken up;' 
there is room enoux'n in freedom,* ranks tor allM id- 
lers that may come — work enough, facts enough. 

For those anixousto s'due as party h-ad* rs, indeed, 
••here are but a frw places. Kv'-ry man. in tlie baltio 
oi liberty is, of liimsek', a leader ai, ed as a soldier.- 
Each and all are fighting for fre- dom— -not for in- 
dividual power or pli.ee — and freedom wiii he their re- 
w aid. 

Mr. Speaker. 1 tender my most greatful thanks to the' 
House for the indigence tiiey he.ve vouchsafed to me 
I trust that our action will be such as favorably to com- 
mend itself •to all our iu lure, reflections, to coming gen- 
erations and to (Jed. And if -this gnat evil &f slavery 
cannot b • stayed j if the s- ods of its furt Xsr <.x:ens.v«; 
nre to be s- wn, and we ■ re to r r.p heir fruits — as r- tip 
we must-— mv ■ ;n. s' ; ■•• r is ih.e.t in •). xv day of ft »»■.•• 
t'ui reuioutio!., my aaiiye si>te, i\ew Hampshire, may 



s and erect, acl-cad God to witness thai she is inu«»cen 
of the sin! Tffiie blood of agony niuslcostinuo to flow 
fioin theiir6crated htidies of those he-Id in bondage, 
may New Hampshire 4 , at least, keep the hom*of her 
garments uncontaminaled by the pollution. 



JERSEY 



THI2 TSEW 

BdOlST'OiN OGTUBisiR 8, 1846. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands 01 God: and religion cannot nourish on 
the ground where humanity withers. Keep. 



to the. meeting on • 
aolHer column. 



5 as published in. a ' fgb. Don't forge! jfce County Temperance meeting on 
the 15th. Oct. a' Boonton.-- ■» 



\\ e eatni stlj reccommcnued to our readers a careful 
perusal. of pi J^he speech, of John P. liaie in the i\. 

,!i:re .Legislature. We thought we couid not do 
be ter than get as much of it in tuo Freeman as we cou.d 
though regret very much that were complied to leave 
anj of it out. We shall print au extra quantity oi this 
and hope our friends will puicnaae them for 
distribution. Let them be nanaeu about t the demo- 
crats and the Whigs. This speech is calculated to do 
•great good and should be circulated extensively. Be 
it remembered that John P. Iiaie takes Ills seat next 
March in the U. o. Senate for six years, and we uouoi 
not that it will be to the great terror of the .maveoeia- 
cy of this country. Let whigs and democrat take 
warning, the same revolution that have taken p.ace 
jn N. Hampshire &. Maine mils; speedily follow in oilier 
Sia.es and lei aboliuoms.s every where remember tha» 
this has been brought about by voting. 



(tr^-MILLBROOK According to appointment we 
held a meeting in this pi, ice o Sa urday evening Oct. 3d 
assisted by Messrs Sayre, Martin &. More, and were 
gratified with the attention and good deportment of the 
oudienee The sch ol hons' was very wj 11 filled, aim 
we arc satisfied that there are thinking heads andfeeh g 
hearts at Millbrook. Th y are to have another mee 
ing there in two weeks (sa: urday evening Oct. 17th.) 



{cv> The New Jersey Election is to be Nov. 3d. and 
we hope to see the bolitioni^ts of the s'ate every where 
awake. We have ivt heard from our friends in Essex 
and some other Counti s in the state where we know 
there are liberty ; abolitionists enough to organise and 
by a little efibr give a respectable vote. An in raised 
vole in our Sta e will have a good effect this yeai and 
a diminished vote will be v r. dshouraging to those 
who are laboring in the cause. jNow friend,s why not 
get to gether aud make out a Ticket and get all thosi 
to vo : e i f that are illing and see that the votes aiv 
counted and returned. We hope ibis may be done in as J 
the Counties even it there b'- but one man that M il! 
vote for liberty, let him vote, it wijl count one, and 
one vo'e has ofte'. ur icd the scale and accomplished 
great things. The cause of Liber y i.^ gloriously victo- 
rious in Maine and New Hampshire, Mates that We 
thought a short time since would be bringins up the 
rear. Other states no doubt will fo low soon Massachu 
sets, N. York and Ohio are preparing to give a might- 
vote for Liberty this fal . Let us throw nur mite hffto the 
scale: whatever vaiue we may set upon a few votes the} 
are mgly valued by our opponents. Slave holders atM 
proslavery men known what votes are war h, and noi ,- 
ing will frighten th -m so much us a few indfper.u. n 
votes. The signs of the lim- ssh>>w th mighty influ- 
ence of liberty vales aod it would !>■: treason to the 
cause to shriiiK or grow oo'd at this tie e. 



(feLOOIC OUT. ."jume Whigs arc very busy en- 
deavoring thu make out thai the hberiy pui.y elected 
.1. K. Polk, and are lit is r^&poncible lor iie a nexairoti 
of Texas, me Mexican wn, the sepeaJ oi 
the TarilT and alt the evils which o.-ia,c- 
ry poIitie.iaJis have Entailed upon tins oa iuii. Wiii 
thene wh'rgs tell os how many whi s voted in fa\ur . i 
Tt-xa«, the War, agatust the tarin and al .no pthtr acts 
which they condemn? W'v invi e tiie^e \\ iu^.> «o cwinc 



ELECTIONS, 

8@=Maine. Then has b-. cn a gnat revolution in 
State of Maine thisf&'l. There is no choice, for Gov- 
ernor and there are abou* -it; vacancies in th ■ Sci ah 
and House.' .Several Liberty men have been Elected! 
The vote according to the lastreturnes which are nearly 
complete, stand thus Wing 2'J, 357, Democrat 34,327 
Liberty 9.250 and about 500 scattering which may with 
lew exceptons be put down with the Liberty vote. 

The Bangor Gazeete & llallowcl Standard,, bioh ex- 
elleut Liberty papers are with great reason exulting O- 
ver the triumph of Liberty in thai State. It ia indeed 
a triumph, a great and glorious triumph. The Slave 
power 'is forever broken in that Slate. S<rroof the 
Whig papers are crowing over the result why we can- 
j.ot tell unless it be that the loco foeos are defeated for 
rtwlfl be seen accordii-.g to the retrns the Whig vote 
is nearly 5,000 behind the democra ic. 

{^Illinois The Liber y party has a great gain in 
Illinois, and we may look forward to a much great r 
gain in the future. The Citizen, the able Liberty 
paper at Chicago has a circulation greater than any other 
paper in thai city ; The Liberty vote of this stale is 
5,147. 

{^Indiana. They have had a Liberty gain in this 
state oi over l!00 votes and are preparer eg lor great ad- 
vances to come. Tne Libert} vote this year is nearly 
3,000. 

fr=bVERMONT. The L'berty vet" of this State is be- 
tween seven and eight thousand. In this s ate the v. hi.'s 
have always liad a l uge majority and yet the cause f 
freedom is progressing a gr r at d a I faster in ihe sts.tes 
of Maine and Ne« Hampshire than in Vermont not- 
withstanding the whigs call thenwelve the ''-only true 
antislavery men in the country. 

Let them look atthe democracy of Maine and New 
Hampshire and take warning. Ail parties that do not 
come up to he true genuine Anti Slavery democracy 
of the abolitionists will come to noiiL' ht very soon. 

OHIQ, MASSAjCpUSETS & MICHIC! AN.--wiII 
no deuht give a large vq e for liberty this fall. The 
cause is no? dying away and will not whi'e slavery re- 
mains in x'.-t nee. 

Some of our subscribers have complained that 
the have not received; t&eir pacers lately. We hav 
made some inquiry about this matter, and have found 
that some P st Wasters have b«»en in the habit of con- 
cealing the Freeman and Iw-epi g it hack — If we hear 
any mor about this wetsjiall. make. some, ex osures that 
will not be very pleasa it lor some, iudividu ils. 

-- Th"e MORRIS COUNTY LIBERTY COX- 
VElNTION washeldiai roeably to appointment in the 
Free Church in Boon'on Sep 1 . 38th. 

B. S;iyrc was appointed Chairman and J. Grimes 

Sec. 

The following resolution wns adopted. 

Resolved. That wc will not vote for any but the true, 
fearless, faithful, out'-poken advocates, of Temperance. 

A ticket was agreed upon tor the November election, 
v hieh not being complete it is ho ight best to defer the 
publishing of it, until fil ed out. 

B. Sayreand J. Grimes were appointed a committee 
o fill vacancies. 

W shall give the whole lickef for County ofEcers 
and candidate forConjress to the p op'eof Morris Coun 
ty :n a ie-w ds) s 

f]e> We Could not attend the Foua h Di-trict Con- 
vention for the nominati n of a roembar of Congress am: 
• 'iis'-quent y cann t say w hat waR done there. 



v\c shoil issue another numb.-r of the Freeman 
as soon as the 25 of Oct — and if our friends in the ad- 
joiiiin^ counties have anything ("published, we shall be 
very glad to do it if 2<.-nt on by the 20ih inst. 



A LIBERTY ALMANIC for 184/ has just been 
published by Willi m Harned No. 5 Spruce street 
l>ew York — In addition to ii a variety ot intcrrcsting 
and uselui mailer it comaius an account of slavery a;.d 
the slavetrade in the District of Columbia which should 
be careiuil rea • and under tood ov. ry America , wo 
jiojie ihisalmanic may have an extensive circulation. 



The TEMPFRANCE ADVOCATE is the title of a 
new Temperance paper started in Newark. Itispub- 
ished by William A. McCain at 2bl Broad Street. 



LIBERTY MEETING. 

THE BOONTON LIBERTY ASSOCIATION 
will no d a meeting in the Fr c Church on Saturday 

evening, (Oct., 10,) at half past seven o,clock — 
Giuesuon for Discussion, 

is the Liberty Party respoesibie for the election of 
James K. i'. lk, and the consequent evils oi his Ad- 
ministration? 

LADIES Si GENTLEMEN of Boonton and vi- 
cinity are invited to attend. 

TEMPERANCE 
ME E T I N G . 

The Anna'd Meeting of the Morris County Wash- 
ington Benevolen: Society will be held in Booulon on 
Thursdav Oct 15thl846at 10 o'clock A M. Meetings 
will beheld n ihe-afternoon and evening. Able Speak 
ers will be provided. Temperance Societies and the 
friends of Temperance generally are requested to at- 
tend. Business of importance will be brought before 
the meeting: 

John Grimes Sec. 

Sept 10th 1846. 



| There is nothi g S'high or so noly whieh he touch 
ofs • arianis.n will not taint and transmute into its own 
i cl« t as d image. 

;i » the p culiarityrof scatariatiism to subii t t : the 
' pivi.-ssioa for the practice:— Kqq-, 



MODERN PROTEST ANT CHURCH COURTS 
UNMASKED, is the title of a Book by the Rev. 
George Bourne, exposing some of the iniquitous pro- 
ceediiigs pf Ecclesiastical bodies in the Protectant 
church. It should be read by every body. 

For sale af this office, price 31 cents. 



CONGREGATIONALISM A:\DC11URCII AC- 
TION Is a small book published by JOHN KEEP 
Pastor of a Congregational Church in Ohio. It should 
be read by every body. A few copies for sale at the 
Freeman Office, Boonton, N. J. 



ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS For sale at the Oihceof 
the Freeman, Boonion, N. J 



LIBERTYMIjYSTREL. 

Ale- copies of Clark's Liberty Miustnl aie for 

sa c at hi- iiffiee. 

This is superior to any thing of the kind «P» hajva 
- en and -h'.ud be int'.e possession of every one that 
I ives good .nusi -, atidjoves to make a good ti->e oi it. 
P ire. 41 pevts. 



Buorilon Washington Tvfnperantc ik-fiev-, 
dent Socicl i/, —luccls every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Gliurcb l*llointls ii cv 
President, Marciis Kvarf* Secretary. 




VOi,. 2- 



BOOJTTON OCT, 24, 1846« 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY DY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Uaenton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, or for 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
AH communications must.be post paid. 



THE RIGHT SPIRIT. 

A private letter from a friend in Pittsburgh, contains 
the following uood paragraph: 

"I am deeply interested in thcTariff question, as I 
am largely engaged in the Iron manufacture, but I go 
for Liberty and the abolition of slavery, first. The Tar- 
iff is a secondary matter. If slavery were put down 
the whole country would adoptsome permanent policy, 
in order fully to sustain itself. I cannot say what our 
vote will be but I hear every person, of ail parties, de- 
nounce the slaveholder in unmeasured terms. I sup- 
pose Hampton and M'Candless, bolh.avowed friends of 
Clay and Polk are sufficiently anti-slavery for all these 
men, that denounce the southern slave breeders as the 
cause of all the distress. — Well, we Liberty men de- 
nounce them atthe right spot, at the ballot-box. If the 
good people of this district understood their true inter- 
ests, all parties wouid unite and vote for our candidate 
f«>r Congress, John A- Willis, and Washington and 
Beaver for Dr. Lemoyne. Lemoync and Willis in 
Congress would do the northern states more good, than 
any thing else that could ha pen." 

This is the right way to ialk, and if any one sn this 
county is disposed lo abandon the truer issue, and bow 
down to the golden calf, we commend to him the ex- 
ample of our worthy correspondent, who, as far as 
money invested goes is more deeply interested in a 
protective tariff tha n any man we wot of in this 
country. 

And here we take occasion to warn the friends against 
placing any belief in reports thatcome tothem about the 
desertion of men from our ranks. Some over-anxious, 
ov er-easiiy persuaded Whigs about town here, have 
diligently circulated through the country reports that 
certain prominent Liberty men, who are largely enga- 
ged in the wool business, have determined to vote the 
Whig ticket, to 'save the country,' their rumored defec- 
tion is urged as an example for others to follow. Now 
we do not say that these Whigs circulate reports they 
know to be false, but we do say that they have framed 
thorn upon the slightest possible foundation. Some wool 
dealers and wool-growers, exasperated at the repeal of 
the Tariff, have probably spoken their mind against the 
Democrats in such a way as to lead I he over-confiding 
Whigs to hppe for their suffrages, and het>ce ihe reports: 
but they are deceiving themselves. The individuals 
Darned have no notion of voting the Whig ticket. We 
have made direct inquiries, and we are assured thatth 
reports are untrue. Our advice is, don't believe thes, 
floating rumors. When you hear a Liberty manse, 
that he will vote the Whig ticket, believe, it, but no, 
1UI then. [Wash. Pa. Patriot. 



of? from the earth. We want another to establish the 
hesorof labor and an equitable distribution of its profits. 

We want another to delivei mankind fiom poison 
and gtve supremacy to the laws of health. We want 
another to chase the fiend war from the race and beat 
all the swords into ploughshares. We want another to 
deliver government from kingcraft, and another to de- 
liver religion from priestcraft. We want another to 
give to woman a, social position which will establish 
purity as a reality. We want another to equalize the 
distribution of knowledge, or in other words to admit all 
to the treasures which are laid up in the world,s his- 
tory and the records of art. 

These reforms are all so connected that we eV fynnj 
man to advance one of them sincerely without advancing 
others. To advance one and oppose others is absurd. 

He who is diligently laboring to promote one of them 
is to be considered favoring all iv bethel he so expresses 
himself or not, and just to fast as he. becomes wise he- 
will go express himself without reserve. r 



five onboard the Niagara, and found Copt. Hunnun. 
;he supposed kidnapped on board of her but had no 
warrant for him- By this time the Niagara was under 
full sail with a stiff breeze, at;d the Gen. Lincoln could 
not gain upon her. 

We have a number of communications on hand in re- 
gard to this affair which may appear hereafter. Th< 
only comforts we can derive from this disgraceful de- 
feat are these two. — It will be the last of it> kind. It 
it don't give birth to a Vigilfli ce Committee nothing 
\viil. ft will also show how much heart there is in ihe 
anti-slavery which is now pretty plentifully professed. 



From the Bangor Gazette. 
Massachusetts Slavery. A case of dousrhfacism 



which may well cause New Englang laces to mantie 

with shame is thus recorded by the Chronotype as hav- j Birney has nut been rejected. There has bees no con 



JAMES G. BIRNEY.— Mr. Birne? has written n 
I' tier addre. s d to the liberty parly in which he declines- 
being a candt' 'ute for the P esidencv in ^848. The whigS 
fctUeiraj .iliatiesin th defamation of this good man, the 
noii-vo..n£ aboliiiouists are -.-ndeavoriiig to make great 
sport for themselves and others over this hater. They 
say the party is tired of him and have rejected him. 

In shor> th- papers of these hartv co-workers in the 
defamation of one of the best men in the country 
are filled with low, vulgur, contemptible sbmg which 
would better become the atmosphere of billingsgate, 
than the characters of men putting forth the claimes o{ 
decency. The truth is, their aspersions are false. Mr 



-v V From the Boston Chronotype. 
THE SISTERHOOD OF REFORMS. 

WE w»nt one reform to establish the principle oi 
*elfownership, now violated hi the persons of one sixth 
of our countrymen. We want another to conform th. 
ttnutc oi land to tne obvious intentions ef the Almightj 
niv, prevent mo muss of tpankiud from being crowded 



ing occurred ^during the last week in the Boston 
Harbor. 

We stop the press toannouce one of the most aggra- 
vated case-- of hounding for the slaveholders that we 
ever had the mist ry to r^oord, aad one which, if suc- 
cessful, will wrap Boston in fouler disgrace than rests 
upon the coast of Guinea, Charleston or New Orleans. 

There arrived, secreted in the Brig Ottoman, of John 
H. Pearson's line of New Orleans packets, on Tues- 
day, a fugitive slave from the "peculiar institution." 

The captain having become aware of the fact, sent 
him in a boat to Spectacle Island to be detained till the 
sailing of the next vessel for New Orleans, that he might 
be returned to his owner," our soverign masters. The 
boat having reached the Island, while the keepers of 
the fugitive were off the guard, on shore, he put off, 
set sail and made for South Boston. They procured 
another boat and pursued htm. But so skillfully did 
he manage his vessel, that he reached the shore and ran 
for life. 

By the time he had nearly reached the bridge his 
pursuers overtook him, and charging him wirh having 
stolen a pocket book bore him ofl from a great crowd. 

But instead of taking him to court thev took him 
back to the boat aad put off. And they have kept off 
cruising out of sight waiting for the sailing of the Bar- 
que Niagara in which their poor victim is to be sent 
back. 

Four boats with power writs were out all night in 
pursuit of the piratical boat named he Warren, to bring 
the kidnappers before the proper authorities. Thus far 
the search has been in vain. 

A later number the same paper thus registers the 
■losiug up of this scene of the sragedy: 

The Slave Case. It is truly mortifying to have to 
ay that the poor-fugitive who reached our harbour in 
lie Ottoman and who actually trod our soil, has been 
hipped back to his bondage. The mercenary agents oi 
he slaveholders, John H Pearson and their tools, 
fairly beat the friends of humanity and the officers of 
Vlass&chusetts-iustice. — On .-aturdav the bark Niagara 
.ad Bot sailed.and thesteptnear Gen. Lincoln was ehar- 
ercd to carry down Deputy Shejiff Prat: and an armed 
ossc 
ate.' 

By whose feult we do not runt-tend to say. He over 



venti'in to reject him, neither is he rejected in the heart* 
of liberty men. He is the man of their choice above all 
others. They are not tired of him, and had he not with- 
drawn, would be their candidate in IS4S. Lib r.'y rra r. 
are too honorable to reject hiSi because h-s enemies 
have lied about him. We do not know a liberty man 
that would not feel outraged if he were not made the 
candidate at a convention for a nomination, if he had noi 
declined and we believe Mr. Birney stand's strong in the. 
affections'of liberty men every where. We have only 
room for the following very small part of his letter. 

Lower Siginaw Michigan, > 
September 1, 1846. \ 
To The Liberty Pariy: 

It would be affectation in me, to say, that at large 
number of you were not lnnking forward to rny rsnom- 
ination. But this cannot be. God has been pleased to 
make me incapable of serving you in the capacity refer- 
red to, were I ever so well-disposed. My voice is 
weak — my enunciation, indistinct; and my bodily pow- 
ers are not so active as they lately were. I cannot now 
address popular assemblies, so as to be well heard by 
them — nor do I soon expect to address them, crto min- 
gle with them, as I once did. 

Knowing that one ought not to stand for the Presid- 
ency, for any party, with suddenly dim.ished powers. 

I have, long since, made up rny mini, from the con- 
sideration above set forth, if there were no other, that I 
may not be in the w.iy of any nomination, which you 
may think proper hereafter, to make Very Unlf 
yours, 

James G. Bi?.:trr 



James K. Polk has again offered for sale to the 
speculators ( notwi'hstanding the pretension of the 
message) TEN MILLIONS OF ACRES of the peo- 
ple's lands, mostly (mark it, Abolitionists.') In the slave 
St tejs/ and the Union sets off with eloquence the 
beauties and capabilities of the contraband property as a 
Southern auctioneer would describe a human carcass he' 
was helping to steai from his owner! Jam;>s wan e 
moncv, bo doubt, to meet war expenses, J(fi«ur, $5Q 
a barrel, and other things, especially officers' 
wages, in proportion, y and if he called on the people d; 
rectly they might inquire what the war was about; but, 



Ihe Deputy Sheriff was half an hour too | f or his own credit's sake, he ought not to offer mo?* 6f 

the people's lands to the speculators, after tel!ir, ; <}>,.. 
>eoplc what he did, concerning their villainous vocr - 



-■anted t!je M»J boat Vi^QV ofiar i-fce (tad pet hi crip- ; i ions inhis mes*age.-.~/.;tV';/>< 



* 



On the i&t. at fchohftffcie, m Sc ; idjri$U> Crnmfy L A-i'a^ iVte nailing Jd>~- Ol^Jl.ii^^l^UtiilSv.li 
f y. hv R;nv Mr. C lis? Mr. Richard K> isal of Orange ! ing appalling slaiairidfcis — '-I df&fiaefl,' osfd the honors 
• ' j j|%'»^e^ n^F p FcT c tk-.Ttrrrt^r 'BWPSP# e Mli>y 9~it\h>»}tin, Ktet* brothers "named ' CtiHniHgfiSm 



"q. ^th« forfifft pkice. 

1. Jo^ir* Francis, die 01** who ascended ih* 
d fuvd the warehouse (if Godfrdv Oilman, and a, 
.Thoili Lcv. jov was aiming to fire at the moment he 
i< shoi, Is now. in Missouri penitential) for attempt to 



, •• , ,i , f • , oeonle- bul tin ir mother was theie, who, armed with ; ; 

vjrder, burglurv, and robbery: sentenced foiyor/y years. : Kuim,i-u l ' , , , , 

: »P ' J .' ,„k:~K «»«»<» lniiinrfed broke the fiiard tna 



«• hliili' thv b'sl iihre* years:' -tfty 1 were 'charsfflil' W 
murder. The : rfce was most urisatisfdctt>ry; Sit tft 
Judjie hud a . i .lk«.lr-.c 6 r the Crown pr- Wctition'andal- 
mosk e< mpelkd i5n jury to returwa verdict of guilty. 

I sal ax my -window lis (hey returned to the jail after, 
sentence &f death was passed upon them. A strong 
military guard took them back, who had strict orders 
not tapeimit any communication between there and the 



2. len'aitfgs, (know n is Dr. J.) supposed to b the 
line who shot Lovejoy, was. killed in JNew Orlearis in a 
l<ywie-kii,ii.: i'uflit. across a table at a driuking-hous*e; be- 
ing horriHl'r unitllrtied in the atl'rav. 

3. Dr. Deals, a leader of the m b, and who cHfin&ed 
the cre'di t:f b'illirig Lo'. ejoy, flourished for a while fts 
burgeon .gciiere^di in the Texan army, though a!: the 
v.-h la gross'}* dissolute Km? ■ xtremely intemperate. He 
i'rrt ly acCompiidied a hunting partv lo Santa Fc, and 
Was murdered while on the^xcufiion by a company of 
Camanchc hillirtnt!. 

4. Rack-, one of the most wicked and ignorant of 
the mob, bu' possessed of great strength, is now either 
iii tl 10 Kcritueky or OmVpeuitentiary, for seme criine- 

• unknown. ! | 

The above mimed were rtmong the distinguished of 
the scoundrels. The reniairider of them are either 
tioad, in prisons, <>r travlling vagabonds. IVot one of 
P.iemj to my know!, djre, has since --i;c::eeded in any re- 
- p .'Ciable bijsineKs, or attained any reputation, except 
V>" crime r'r vllia-iy. 

Wo might give the fate of some ottip rlbteffl as btbl as 
hose at Alton, but forbear. Let any one look ever 
lie Ii:-.t of thtfse who have figured in the riots which 
tvought disgn'a:' unoi: bur' own city, and he: 'will See 

* tributfbns quite as striking as those saok -n in the 
.i*..-:ve extract, if h«» Jtas not an old paper, let htm 



strength which her state imparted, broke the guard thai 
was stronf enoue'h to r sist any male force. I saw her 



clasp her eldest son. aged 22; I saw her embracing her 
seedtid son, :.g-t!.20, and saw her fainting as she clung 
to heryounges: son, aged 18; and I ask what co»jld com- 
pensate feer for such agotiy 7 They were executed, and 
they were innocent.' Indiana Freeman. 



v •} C.4M(iL>— j ily In-, g asag-jthf licensing of i;nathi is, public tvwh* 

hd|, nfid Uie 'administrate >ii «.f the ordinances, lave I een 
«-«wsu!owd ar. appi'-rtariiiiig to the rit'.ee of the ?,1:};'.- try. 
]5ut the right ai d i hc po wer to direct and_ n.^.duitf 
!\ese nTaflcrs a'.e inhcVerji"n?i l ne chufclies- hi sevevaf. 
re&^ctti thft M+Sf!*„ «W>Rfr Cp^g^»tiptk.lifrW_ar(; £ 
tr.arked .departure f:em strict, genuine, a'fid^urc Cob-", 
^yegatienalisat^s^tactist d in th| Apo'alo!':r j^iiod, and 
in t.4c early days of New England' 

Sbund Congregational ptincip'cs and doctrines sub- 
ject every Pastor i>< the watch and discipline ol'his 
chtarch; amenable, iik a; y other mefnl er'/ tQ tfee (TvurcBt 
he Court of trhrs — the ultimate appeal in all ca.-^i .- of 
iifficuty, and possessed of the una ul led right to per- 
form all necessary acts of discipline. In his official sta- 
tion only is the rarftbr a superior, and even this office 
makes him but the chief ainoiuj equals. 



KEEP'S CONGltt'GATIONALISN. 
CHAP. III. 

SEC: I 

Congregationalism is asysletn of ecclesiastical orgah- 
iz tion. in v\ hich the Scriptures are recognized as the 
oniy .infallible guide, respecting church order and dis- 
ci, line; , * * , 

Associated believefs should agree in fundamental 
points of doctrine, but no church has the rkdu to force 
the conscience, or .in the least degree, to infringe the 
right c>f private jndgment. * * 

°A nvmber has, the right to withdraw his connection 
*vllh the Church. 

:\o church covenant ghbuia trespass upon inaliebable 
rights. 

Standi^o And Authority of cnvncn of1*iceks. 
SEC. IV. 

hi,,U over the names of those business raeii Vvho were | Minister, klder, Pastor, Teacher, Overseer, Bishop 
anxious to ph.tect the slaveholders, and prevent the . ai -e diuerent Scripture titles of the same, officer, fat 

eitv bcin^ ruined by t:iewi;IMrav/el of their trade, anci 



he will ftiui.ihel more than bAlfof *hehi are bank' opt; 
;ome have become drunken sots, a d the ba'n-ce are 
,::haned of their. conduct; while there is hardly a case 
. .f Af.ti-Slavery man that has not prospered and done 
-:-l\.— M('*d'trtl cy Whig 'of 76. 

Ye t,' and let him think of the Rev. Joel Parker 
.:ii o:!r.:rs of tii.it stamp who figured comspicuous- 
ly in oae pax% of t'e..; mob, and are uist'.y. charg».ble 
\ ith aetintr a criminal part in the mwrder of Lovejoy, 



.thei Officer is the Deacoh. 

A Church includes all who arc associated for the 
mainVn nee of rV.ligi.-iis wbrship; and, on Congr.ga'tion- 
a jjriuciples, is complete in her organization to do all, 
(feat appertains to her tliscip'ine, and is no' permiftcd lo 
driegate nny portion of her power's or church a'uih.rity 
(o offiei's' The inembcV^are a brotherhood of acknow- 
ledged, equals, joining haeds 'for a common object- 
These are required to watch over each other in love 



dt^FACTS FROM TENNESSEE. 

Tlie following facts are from a citizen of Tennessee, 
whose feme we w! hhold foreii obvious reason: 

A slave woman belonging to F. II. W., Esq., an 
elder in the Br B. church, became hopefu'ly a Ch: s- 
tian, and was admitted to full fellowship in the church 
some time in Febuary, 1835. In a fev da>s after, .he 
elder 9<dd her to a drover, a Ad she v.ns immediately hur- 
ried to New Orleans, and there sold to a planter, to la- 
bo^ night and day, and in all probability never tt> hear 
the gospel preached again. It is supposed that the eld- 
er could not afford to keep a praying slave on his plan- 
tation, lest the services of the day should be curtail- d 
by devotion, and for this reason he sold her, and has 
bought another, who will not take up so much time in 
this: M ay. 

Gol. R-, of — county, wftf" informed that one of his 

slaves was becoming very religious, arid had appointed 
night prayer meetings amoie.' the blacks. The colonel, 
on healing of this tact, immediately v.dil to h's St r- 
vant, aud told him if he ever heard ofnr.y more oi ihesw 
night prayer meetings, he would tit h'm up, and (jitC 
him one hurdrcd lathes on his bare back; and if he < en- 
tinued the practice, he would double the dosc.&c. 
This put an ife'mediate stop to the poor black's feral' erS 
in ft public manner. This idfornialion was rtcciVoa 
from art elder in tt:e church mentioned above, whtf 
highly applauded the colonbl's conduct. ylrti S. 
Record. 



be 



:ul let them be rnark'e. Full justice has not been m?.f- ' a 



■<\ out hi them yet. Ed. Freeman. 



& E L E C T E D. 

CLEAR THE WAV. 
'.ilen o'.' tiiought.' be up and stirring 

JN Ight and day: 
Sow tin; s ed — w ith.draw the curtain — 

Clear the way! 
"'.!e:i of action, aidjand cheer them, 

As ye may! 

There 's'a fount about to stream. 
There's a light about to beam, 
There's a waraith about to glow, 
There's a flower about to blow; 
'['here's a midnight blackness changing, 

Into gray; 
Men of thought and men of action, 
i Clear the way. 

"Do your duty, God will aid; 
D ;rc -to vote as you have prayed; 
Who eVe conquered, while his blade 
Served his open foes. , 



A i\I an iii Cincinnati, who had foamerly been a slave 

'""* Y • . »» »^„t »i ic ^ir.r-pr Muin'ol n Virginia, was asked if he had not rather be the slave 
The v need a • residing officer, but this ottirer ca.inoi » ' Wti .-. . , , . . , 

1 Ly ■ , - . ° , ; , <, T u,vn, -viei.(l of a kind master m Old V lignna, where he had plenty 
e clad w th the power 01 the body, lhoy nuj >kcii, e » , 

1 " • ; . ... „, ,u„ ;,,.,,.<;ted with i ,0 eat and dnnk aod light work and no v hn piugs, than 
connmuee, butt , ,ornm tee ca nnotbc n ^ . ^ ^ ^ ^ 

ie fud power of the Cnureh. tlas responstbiht} u ^ ^^^^ ^ ^ r ,pli,d, "I hid 

rather he a free man, aridovn my own body, and call 
my wife and children mine, and be compelled to btg my 



the fud pow 

iransterahle. The Churches of The Apostolic age w ere 
indepeideht, and the bishop, pastors of local congrega- 
tions. Among Ministers there is an entire ecclesiasti- 
cal equality. The M inisters has no power in the Church 
except what 'arises from his 4ingle vote, and from his 
weight of character. Equality is the order of Christ's 
Chinch: .'uthority is shar< d equally. 

Congregational principles do not justify the distinction 
bciween Clergy and Laity as having distinct claims and 
separate interest, or giadt s of po>v< r- 

All the"early discinjes considered themselves authori- 
zed to preach, arid, if necessity required,, to baptize, and 
in all prob .bilitx to administer the Lord's Supper. 
This staie of things continued down to the opening of 
the third century. 

The riWked veneration for Ministers, under the title, 
the Clergy, which formerly existed in this country, has 
very much subsided. Pavers o.f) privileges claim, d by 
the Clergy, and by the Rulfrig iC'dera, where they fcre 
ftgatded'as church officers, have turned public senti- 
ment to the other extreme, and contributed much t'6 les- 
son esteem f<r the ministry and churches. Clerical 
usurpations 'hare created a deep and extended disgust in 
| renj wtutij minds. 



bread from door to door, and go to the Ohio river to 
drink, limn to Le. a s ave in Virginia, v. here 1 used to 
hear the cries of my perishing brcthent, as they vert daily 
be'tt and whipped by the cruel overseer . Atiti S. Rec- 
oup. 

TESTIMONY. OF A kENTUCK VAN. 

"Slavery is the parent of more suffering tin n ha? 
flown from any one soursc since its existence, fe'tn h 
sufierings too! Sufferihgs jnconceiveablc and innumera- 
ble — unmingled wretchedness from the ties bf nature 
rudely broken and destroyed, the acutrstfcodily tortures, 
groans, tears,add blood — lying forever in Wi ariBess and 
painfVilness, in wotchings, in hunger and thirst) m cold 
and nakedness. 

"Brethren of the North be not (deceived. These ?uf- 
ferings still ex'lSt, and despite the efforts of their cruel 
authors to hush them down, and confine them within 
the precincts '6f thei own pmntatWRSj they will, bvef 
j aud anon, struggle U^i and reach the ear oi iiumfctiiiy " ' 



* 



I'll,; tfEW JEfcsW 
£RJ2E I i ? . 

BOOnYON 



Ov. I \_.lJijV«. 



18-46. 



I ar.ts.uVi'..d to ihe.claims ojjman, cannot bo alive to 
••.,.mma'nds of God i and religion cannot flourish on 
.-round where humanity Withers. Keep. 

#3=>THE MEXICAN WAR. — Our readers no 
xht x know that this war is progressing and that a 
rere battle has just been fought at Mdntery at which 
Kefcg lik- ONE THOUSAND of our fellow men 
w been slaughtered. Th* Slaughter of so many of 
r race is horrible to think of under any 
Instances', but when we reflect that this war is otie 
unprovoked aggression on our part, infamously unjust 
i-ard Mexico, & carried on for the sole purpose of 
|e(u king 'die Slavery of the human race; we are un- 
I to think of it with composure, & are fed to etiipxte 
10 are the authors of this war? We cannot lay it to Ciav 
Ik or Tyler any more than we can to any other slave- 
Ider. The 'wicked scheme <>f Texan annexation was 
nco'cted among the slaveholders tweity years ago', 
i h-en pursued ever since with a steady and single eye 
its final accomplishment. In order to bring it about 
was necessary that a slaveholding arid proslavery 
blic sentiment should be infused into the heart oi this 
lion. 

Each of the individual above named has given his 
luence in his own particular sphere towards making 
d securing this public sentiment. They have, a 1 ad- 
cated Texas in their own way, according to the cir- 
msrances in which they have, been placed* and the rc- 
ective parties to Which they belong have always regar- 
d the interest of party far above that of every ether 
crest, and have always yielded a hearty acquiescirce 
the demands of slaveholders in referer.ee to this and 
pry "ther matter: The claims of the whigs tt) a dif- 
•ent portion are unfounded. Wlvn prominent Tex- 
men and Slaveholders have been proposed to fi 1 the 
ibiiiot officers to represent us abroad, to officer our 
fmv and Navy &c. a Whig Senate has always bpen 
ady to sanction there propositions When the fo- 
rest* of the Slaveholders demanded the repeal of the 



or* and democratic Gove nors prnnptiy and hoi.it.jy K 
8'ionsrf to thc.cfeli and. prominent whig', us w;.;i a* dem- 
ocrats are found volunteering to no. and fight the battlei 
f slavery; and when a hi 1 is before. th' senate prn.fjdfog 
that all territory acquired hy treaty shad be free lcritor< 
we li.-d a whig senate horn" Alassfoi i'eati gti.e the I-::!. 

Yes moi'c thaa iv.enty years have hi . :: ..pent in pro 
slavery maneuvering with a 1 eye cn the fit.al .onscnii: 
lion of this wicked Work and in !; bwt Uie ;d oii icjvs .- 
have labored to prevent ii, none bttt these have 1 
up there warning voice before ibis naiion. They I a, 
been faithful in their opposition this 'i >.a: 
scheme of which this Mexican war is a pait th.-outth pei - 
seeution and abuse of every sort. Whigs and Demo 
crats have dune every tiling to oppose them that ih, n 
tercet of the party required. They have voa <l ojix be, 
titions under foot, sustained gajr«, stifled feee discusion 
and cast all th^ odium thpy could on the cppo.,ers of 
of Texas annexation. The whigs c an claim no credit 
for What some of them have said agafn I T< x.is, for thev 
never said anv thing of the kind until they thought the 
interest df their party demanded it. 



E N G LAND. 

The Rev. Dr. Snith a Slavi holder of Charleston S. 
C. while attending the world's Convention ».t London; 
TO k it upon himself to say something derogatory to the 
, haracter of Fredrick Dougia.-s the fugitive s,!a% e a ho is 
(ttcturiugon the subject of Am rican fc> avery in England. 
VV do not know where the Rev. D. D. thought he was, 
ifut it appears that Mr. Douglass knew he was not in the ' 
U.S. for he took lcc a! advji e hu ihi subject ane; Lis attor- 
ney addressed It. c.mith calling on him to retractor a- - 
bide by the consequences. The Rev. gentleman found 
that r.;:*n with colored skins were protected by law -in 
Eng|and as w. II as others, and very promptly retracted 
ill he had said . 

This was no doubt very humiliating to the haughty 
aristocrat, hut just as it shouid be. 



To the voters of New Jersey, the 2d of NoVr next is 
the day on which we can give eiir testimony at the 
Ballot box on the side of Liberty — We trust our 
friends will not be deluded with the civ that votes are 
thrown away aKeij we do not elect our men- A great- 
er falsehood never was uttered — The libe rty Vote:; have 
already aroilsed whigs and democrats and made many 
of them ihink that sla> ery is the grcbtegft evil o oa th, 
and the first thing thit should be atteneed to. It is 
our voting that has made them think of ibis, and ifwe 
keep on, we shall either make them abolish slavery or 

<tand back and let us do it— Let us keep on then — If tnfe hi S hest P'' lisc - 
we set half the value on votes that, ourenemias and the 
enemie s of the slave do, there w ould not be ■■■■ man ol 
us away from the Polls on the third of Nov. As small 
in number as our votes are, they tire looked at, & talk- 
ed abort a great deal; ^nd oiii opponents would like 
very much to have them- — Let us give them to the 
slave. • p ■'• 



MrLt BrooK. — We held an other meeting ac- 
cording ;e appoints^ t en Saturday evening last at this 
place wi'h the help of Messrs Suyer, Moran and Stone. 
The citizens desired another appointment in two weeks 
which we agreed upon. This will bo Saturday evening 
th " Hist Oct. inst. There is a good work going on at 
Mill Brook. 



#e> A True Man — Gerit Smith of New York has 
made out 2,000 deeds for about forty acres each which 
he gives to honest iudustri' u*-- cclcied bit n in the State 
It is said he iritehds t< make out about 1 ,C10 rroie. 
Gerrit Smith peihaps believes that every landless man 
mould have a piece, of land, and he intends to do his 
pan in bring. ng that order ol things about. 

Sa< h benevolence is a rare thing and he is deserving 



fe$*FlFTH DISSTRIl'T CONVENTION^ 



This Convention was held at Orange on the 19 inst. ! eomluiiet' 
iriff, Si whi'.' votes were needed to accompli* it they j Richard Kelsah Ch'-h nM a) d A. tJ Frttman Set. \ at this office. 



^.Kfep's Concpfcationamsm & Cnt'Rcn Action. 
We give some extracts from this truly valuable book, 
but would rather the people would get the. book, and 
read the whole for the ms. Ives. In these day? of clerical 
dictation and usurpation, ; rid ccV lr siastieal tymny; it is 
iinuOi'ant that pi ople should kn-w their rights, in order 
thai they may e^enpoa rdurn to the dark ages of despo- 
tism &r;d b'oOel, which is mere chargeable to »he demin- 
, eerir.g, y.reastlv rule of thosea<;es than to all othercausea 
hi",ed. We have a few copies'^of this book for sale 



id all they wanted, and so they always will have un- I JOHN A. PAYNE 

the partv sees that its own dis$olutiori is iiit;vitabl<'. k v r.s nominated foi Congress and reccn.mcndcd to the } 
he slaveholders have. aiw-a\s h:-en united in the deter- liberty voters of the District. 
in-Uion to extend I he area of slavery and the:y have 



lusfar alwavssucceeded,and this siives them confidence 
> believe they will be sitccesful foi the future, hence 
ieir continued efforts to secure California and Mexico. 



(sj ESSEX COUNTY CONVENTION.^ 



\t a Convention of the iilwriy voters of Efisex County ! 
'he South ne^cr cou^d have accomplished this without j h( . w b 0rang(( Qct> luth 1B4(J j ohll L.e was chose":,: 
le aid of the North. Thev have made the political j g^ rmanaB U -Ricliard Ketefil! i^ec. 
Irties* at the No'rth bow the knee, they have ( The follov.-ing Ticket was recconimtrtded to the vo-i 
y thi'ir bullying threats frightened seme, and by their ; tcr£ 0 p"th. e County. 
phistry deceived others; hV gettiug up Texas scrip and j 



;lling it to northern people, and threat nig to withdraw 
ieir patronage from northern merchants and tnar.ufactu- 
les, they have secured the influence of those who al- 
/ays carry their souls in tneir pockets. They have se- 
ured the influence of the church South, and the silence 
f the church North with few exceptions. The Polbi- 
al and religious press of the North have bowed down 
1 humble & obexlient servlity to the slaveholders. They 
ecured the public sentiment r'efercd to, and have brought 
nto their actual service the grcr t tnaji rity of the people 
if the north, and made them their willing slaves. Undi r 
his influence they got Texas, and are n w at the point 
>f the Bayonet wresting California & Mexico from its 
ightful possessors, and almost the whole north, wigs 
uvl democrats are s- ttiug on the dogs,& e xulting over the 
nfamous butcheries which our troops are perpe ruieing 
n Mexico. Polk is only ihe Milling instrument which 
;la ery is using for the accomplishment of its base pur- 
>oses. Ih' issu ,'s his infamous proclamations full of lies, 
ind calls for troops to go into Mexico, and whig ^fovern- 



For Asscvil'.ij, 

Thomas V. Johnson, 
John Lee, 
Auron B. H rrkon, 
Jonathi n Parkhuist, 
James Bab, 
Richar ! Ivelsail, 
William Patterson 

For Sheriff. 

Frederic Rcimer 



"The Vote, the vote, the reightv vote, 
Though once we n»e.d a humbler n te, 
And prayed our serv.n b to be ]ust, 
We tell them now they m. st, they must. 
The tyrant's grapple "by our ^o'e, 
We'd loosen from our In other's throat, 
With Washington ttte here agree, 
T he. vote's the weapon ol the free." 



MORRIS COUNTY 

LIBERTY TICKET. 

For OoncreSs. 

France Mn;>h. 

For Assembly 

Daniel C NorriS, 
J3enjamin B Giiswolfi. 
James B. Grimes, 
Joseph Moore 

For Sj&IJ 
Charles B. Norri* 

T^or Coroners. 

Joseph 0. HedgeO, 
John Grannis, 
William Kingsland 



"Vote on! vote on, we hail the Liberty tiafj 

That lend us on our w ay; 
We'll boldTy vote ; our coulifr} - saving, 

And bravely conquer while we may. 
The world is up — for freedom moving. 

The thunders distant roar we hear — 
From land io lai>d the free arc cal'ing, 

And slaves With jey and rapture hear. 
Vot* >»t* «n " 



* 



POETIS Y 



SXEPIIIi.VS ©KE.-i?I. 

By (jlo. Brau::cn 

Publiuhsd by Request. 

0- • 

'A'hen a t'cUowis drunk he'll dream queer thing:;, 
For the mind cut loose from its loading strings, 
•'Joss wandering around as its will may law 
Fri|B tht -southern pole to Labrador. 
Arid oft, a9 it it reels like a staggering sot 
O'er the dust and rubbish of the tilings forgot, 
$t wiil turn up a fact n its random dashes, 
Lik-j a half j>istareen kicked out of the ashes. 

Once., in the good old days that are gone, 
Wieni. used to suck at the stiff blue horn, 
And sleep in the gutter v. ith the mud for my bed, 
With the Patriarch's pillow laid uudcrmy head. 
And. a tag of sky, not hail" of lucked up, 
r^r blanker and coverlet over the top — 
I dn aiiitd a dream, which if no ouc will quarrel, 
I'll venture -to tell, for the sake of the moral. 

S*n Ham was a grower, nnd sold new xum, 

To every set that was 1 able to come; 

if they had money he'd take it, if nought but a coat on. j 

He would strip that av. ay to the very last button, 

then turn them out doors without money or clothing | 

For drunkards he held to be a very great loathing. 

It was there I swallowed my cash one night, 

Till head and pockets had grown quite light. I 

Though the heavier heart sunk down like lead. 

As ho sent me into the gutter to bed. 

And I lay and thought on a plan to mend, j 

Eat «as fast asleep ere 1 some to the end. 

And all at once it sacmed I stood 

In a lonely yrith and a fur oft" wood. 

While musing there on rny evil ways, f 

The sin and folly of all my days, 

And ni'jkl to boot:—- behold there came 

A man with eyes that shone like flume. 

With a small rough brow like a rock whose edge 

Had been deep scared by the stoneman's sledge, . 

Black locks whose ends were crisp and Brown, 

Hung o'er his brow's perpetual frown, 

And hi: fire seamed clieeks, so sharp and thin 

Were tortured into a dismal grin: 

Small rough and keen like the face of a rasp, 

He looked as he gave my hand a grasp, 

•* Ha, ha".' Said the fellow "my little chuck Stephen 

I'm giad to see yon, how are this even? 

My <ad. they say you are a bright true blue, 

At least I've heard such stories of you, 

For they tell me, wherever I stop to inquire 

You are smart as a steel-trap and keen as a brier. 

Now come my ducky just let's have a clinch 
At wrestle, and plague on the one who'll flinch." 
"No, no, said I, you are alone and a stranger, 
And I fear you are puttiug vourself into danger; 
Besides I reckon that men have enough ill 
On earth, without breaking their necks in a scuffle.'' 
"You darsent," said he, "your a coward ihats flat;' 
''No not by a 'jugfull' you ueed'nt talk that. 



' T can throw you," said he, "no you cant" I replied 
He louder asserted, but still I denied; 
''What's more," said he, "if you recollect rightj 
I've thrown you before, and have done it to night." 
"You've tlirown me V" said I, what devil are yon?" 
"At y»ur service,'' he replied, and his breath burned 
blueJ" 

Oh ye powers I. T'was old nick, as the hoof 
Just, seen in ihe smoking grass gave proof, 
And I marked the horns in ihe curis of his hair, 
Sticking out from ihe straglifig locks hall bar , 
And plainly per ceived by a thick heavy waie 
On the seat of his breeches, 'he kink of his tail. 

Now for life :>r death.' no room fo pans*. 

For he seized me firm with hi-: vice-like c.\ut; 



And quick closed in with ar. answering grip; 
1 laid one hand on his shoulder hard, I 
Boacy and rigid and lignuirig scirred, 
Bent o'er hisrigh ana my left -arm plied 
Like; a tough oak wyiho to his burning side; 
And we bowed and bent and writhed and PfliDg 
And harder and harder -e hungged and clung. 
Till uie Steam oi his nostrils rose like a Quel, 
And the sweat of my brow on ins hot Uow hissed. 

My heels tore up the geeti grass sod 
Bui it DiacK.eiieu ana withered wherever he trod:— 
-The straggle was stern, and the struggle w.s long, 
The heim grew fierce and my arm grew strong, 
Ana we b wed aim hern — till by chance a root 
Coued round the demon's cloven foot. 
VMuuce 1 Oore linn down wuh alonous shock 
Twixta fallen oaiana a jagged rock. 

Oh; now; the old devil so ready to curse u 
Pooi teilow before, cried stoutly icr mercy, 
"Let me up, tair piaj, twas the root which threw, 
Let me up, my laii is no credit to voul" 
"iNo, nut till you swear by the heat of your den, 
That you never wih ouoi to throw uiu. Kgain." 
But Uie lei ow \vs) spunney a.-.d gave no pledyc, 
So 1 tieiu nun sung to Use iog anil ledge; 
Ana lie yei.oU ano ; oared ano roared jelled, 
Bui the louder he shou.cO tne harder 1 beltl. 
T ill, wo for the thought ins wits came back, 



[THE SECOND ANNUAL MEETING OF . THE 
MORRIS COUNTY WASHINGTON 
TEMPER A:\ CE BEN EVOLEN T 
SOC IET Y. 

The Meeting convened in the Free Church in Boou- 
ton Oct 15th 184C at 10 o'clock A. M. Marcus Evarts 
was appointed Chairman, atsd John Grimes Secretary. 

The following individuals were appointed a business 
committee- J. Grimes, D. C. Norris, M. Evarts, J. 
Grannis, GeoJDobbins and Thomas Riley, and the 
Meeting then adjourned to 3 o'clock P. M. 

3 o'clock P. M.,Mr. Evarts resumed the chair and 
the busiuess committe presented ihe following Resolu- 
tions. 

1st. Resolved, That inasmuch as it is a universally 
admitted fact, that Alchohol is a poison, that is manifest- 
ly doing the work of a poison,not only to man's physical, 
i but to every thing that appertains to his intellcual 
j and moral bein. , that in this age of light none can be so 
| blind as not to see the truthfulness of these dcclaratiofcs 
J and must necessarily follow that rumseliing is a crime 
• and the rumseller h criminal that we can no more recon* 
I eiie this busines with honesty than we can theft, mur- 
I der or any oth-ir- crime and therefore it becomes the du- 
! ty of all true temperance men to hold this business up 
: before the world as a crhninal business 
j 2 Resolved. That as thejmembersjof our State Lcg- 



(For the devii has wit, though his serVenls may lack) j islature, even those who profess to be Temperance men 



And, as a last hope to escape iroin his jam, 
H« began to cry out xor nis oifl Iiienu flam, 
"lien nam, Ben turn." did the oidripyeil, 
"Come quick o< Uiisi'teie will make orphans in hell, 
I've stooo by you, through thin and through thick 
Now just leiiu a liana to your dear old 4 iSick." 

The voice went forth to the ears of Ben, 
And out he rushed from his bhod red den. 
His gratetul bosom all worked to a hatter, 
As on he sped o'er field and gutter, 
And rock and fence and wail to lend 
A helping. hand to his good old friend 

I caught one glimse of the ccmicg fee, 
As I bowed to h Id th Demon low 
"And now,'' thinks I, "I'd better be off, 
For one of these chaps at a time is enough, 

I can stand my hand with a dnzen of de'ils 
But you, good faith, 1 must take to my heels. 1 ' 
So I sieizd the log with all my strength, 
And rolled it over thp fiend at length, 
And left him writhing beneath its weight 
Ag I ran from the fear of a far worse fate 

On came poor Ham, in filial wrath, 
Foamiogaud cursing along his path, 
And the las' I saw as I glaaced o'er the track, 
He was rolling the log from the devil's back 



"I challenge any who understands the nature of ar- 
dent spirit, and yet for the sake oigain continues to be 
engaged in the traffic, to show ihat he is not involved in 
the guilt of murder. "--Lyman Beecher. 



"Iam deeply coiivi .iced that the evils ofinlemperance 
ca.i never cease, till the virtuous in society shall unite in 
pronouncing the man who attempts to accumulate 
v -earth by dealicg ou; poison and death to his neighbor 
as infamous." — John Pinpoint. 



I pis 



beet and 



"«)jed mv 



" Theargumen appear* 10 me irresistable. To make 
or sell ardent spirits for common use, is as wicked.as to 
make and sell poison for the same purpose- Itb trig ad- 
mitted that the use «f this ar icle is destructive to health, 
reputation and proi erty,(aud th- proof of this fact i> 
overwhelming,) it follows conclusively, that those who 
•nuke it and sell it, do it with a high hand, agaiuet God. 
and the interests of their fellow mill. The blood ot 
murdered souls and bodies will be required. a>. tlc-ir 
! hand*."— lion. David Dacttll. 



have heretofore paid little or no attention to the subject 
although numerous memorials have from time to time 
been presented to them for consideration and action;. — 
therefore it is the duty of all Temperance men to give 
their votes to none but those who wiil speak out on all 
proper occasions, who will act up to il>eir principles at 
all times, and who will not think more of mere party in- 
! terests than the real welfare of the community. 
: 3 Resolved That the result of the election in N. Y. 
I on the license question showing so large ft majority of 
I votes in so large a majori'y of the Towns in favor of no 
[license, is highly encourageing to the friends of temper- 
lance every where and proves the steady onward march 
j of the cause. 

4 Rosokcd That we believe New Jersey should fol- 
low the example of New York and some other States 
and give the license question to the Townsjand that we 
recommend the frien is every where in the state to pe- 
tition the next legislature to^tliat effect. 

5 Resolved. That in our opinion a law prohibitingthe 
sale of intoxicating di inks on Sunday would be an in- 
direct sanction of the sale of such drinks on other dayo 
and inasmuch as we consider sale of them a crime, we 
can no more ask for such a law, than we cou d ask for 
a law prohibiting theft, murder, or any other crime on 
Sunday. 

After Considerable J|discus6ion^the resolutions were 
laid over till evening. 

Th-i Committee presented fhe'following list of officers 
for the ensuing year, which was adopted. 
BAXTER SAYRE. Pres. 
Silat Tuttle, Daniel Dehart v G. W. Esten, G. L. 
Woodruff, S. A.^Condit, Geo. Dobbins Vice Presidents' 
John Graunis. Cor. Secretary. 
John Grimes. Rcc. Sec. 
Marcus Evarts. Treasurer. 
Executive Committee E. L. Bly thing, B. B. Gria* 
wold, S. A. Condit, F. Stone, Edward Howel, H. P 
Green, Henry Phillips, T. Riley, J. Maxfield, J.Gran- 
nis and J. McGce. 

The Meeting then adjourned to half past seven iu the 
evening. 

Half past seven o'clock Mr. J. Gracilis took the chair 
and the Meeting was addressed in an aid j andiuiercsimg 
manner by Mr. Wm.'^P. Miller of iMewnrl<. 

The resolutions were then adopted and the Meeting 

aojourued. 



•Touch no dram i' is liquid fir -." V. r cs! 



* 





OL. 

THE FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Puoi'rietor. 
Boor.ton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

TERM S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for tw o dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



BOO XT OX NOV, 2-, lfct6. 



THE LIBERTY PARTY, 

Is the only Party in the Country which is the advo- 
cate of UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE. 

It is the only party which is in favor of diffusing the 
dessings of equal and impartial legislation to all. 

It is the onlv party in favor of universal education. 

It is the only party which estimates the rights of per- 
tous above those of corporations. 

It is the only party which has the welfare of Human- 
ty— the Freedom of mankind— for its great object and 
eading idea. 

Why should not such a party be supported by the 
vise and good, the true and generous, throughout the 
and 5 Why should not every christian republican give 
t his countenance and aid? The Party.of just Reform 
indreal Progress— the Great Free Party of the Future 
-the realization of the hopes and wishes of the best 
ninds in the country, and of the World, what shall hin- 
ler its final triumph? Join with us then, ail who love 
reedom, why reverence the Gospel of the Redeemer, 
It who wonld have his Kingdomlcome on Earth, & lib- 
erty & righteous law become universal. Join in the De- 
mocracy of Freedom ; lend your hands and hearts to 
he noblest of all tasks, that of breaking olF chains from 
rour fellow men, and lifting up to light and liberty, the 
nillions in darkness and bonds.*- Granite Freeman. 



him, and the tenderness of his « ife is but adding mote 
sorrow to his soul; the caresses of t|is childran, with 
their innocent sports but sinks the poisoned arrow deep- 
er into his manly heart — while a fiend in human shape 
is gro wing rich on his earnings. But enough — 'tis 
nearly dark — the lv lis have done chiming — the hymns 
are now ascending in praise to the great I Am. Good 
bye." 



From the Spirit of Liberty. 

A Working Man.— \ friend handed us 
l letter from a young glass blower, former- 
ly of this city, but now residing in St. Lou- 
is, from which we make the following ex- 
tract. We prefer the tab* of such a man to j 
the nice dainty epistles of the "upper etnst 
loafers. He speaks his own honest imprt s- j 
Sons of meti and things. They are too of- 
ten mere parrots— repeating what they hear' 
from others, and are too nice to feel for the 
wrongs ofa "nigger" or even a white la- 
boring man. The letter is dated 2>t. Lou- 
is, Sept. 13th. 

i "Morals are in a bnd state here; the city is kept up 
by th°. fines of the loafers, houses of ill-fame, fights, &c. 
Wr. Parsons preaches here. I go to hear him every 
lUnday. I like him well as a preacher, with the ex- 
eption of his Co'onization views. The poor negroes I 
Sty from my very soul. I used to hear them say that 
[Abolitionists would go to the Slave States they would 
!ease to declaim against slavery. If seeing negroes 
pork like the beast they drive, bare-footed and bare- 
waded, with scarcely enough of rags to hide theirnak'.d- 
iess, with no hope to make life desirable, would turn 
ne, then I would be a monster. I had a chat with a 
(lave, that is the best blacksmith in this end of the city. 

He is forty ye irs old, has three children, has worked 
it his trade all his life, is now hired out for ten dol'ars 
pw week and boarded; he never se> s any money, is < f- 
len but haii'-cud, his sprits are worn ont, hope has left 



EXTRACT OF A SERMON BY WILLIAM 
GOODELL, PUBLISHED Ii\ THE CHRISTIAN 
INVESTIGATOR. 

The right to use ou"* own faculties, to direct our own 
industry, to dispose of our own earntngs and products^ 
to chose our own teachers to form and express our own 
opinions to worship God according to the dictates of 
our own consciences, to teach those who will receive 
our teachings; these are personal rights, essential to <>ur 
moral agencv, in the free exercise of which, in any 
manlier not inconsistant with the equal rights of others, 
civil government, which involves compulsory restraint, 
cannot intermeddl without impairing and infringing them 
thus becoming an aggressor instead ofa pro:ector. 

Just in proportion as the governmen of God is kept 
out of sight, does the sphere of civil governmet become 
enlarged, approximating to ubiquity, and un'imited con- 
trol. And just in proportion as God's government is 
kept in view, do the functions of civil government be- 
come narrow, and circumscribed. 

This we see, every dny. Those who forget God, im- 
agine that they are bound to obey the commands of civil 
■jovernment, 'riahf or wrong;" but those who remem- 
ber and honor God. understand their duty of judgin!r 
for thovr.sdlvos whether or no the mandates of civil gov- 
ernment ou<rht to bo obeyed. A limited civil govern- 
ment is the necessary result of the far ofthe Lord. And 
as to the complain! that civil o-ovrnment cannot be pre- 
served, not its ends reached, without invading the orisr- 
inil personal rights that have been mentioned, it mav 
well be diminished. If civil joverment cannot exist 
or reach its ends without the evident subversion 
of 'hose very ends, then let it cease to ex'st. 
Let us never resort to s> miserable expedient as that of 
sacrifk-inrr the end for the preservation ofthe means 

Similar rernnrks may be made >n respect to chnrch 
'•rovemment. The end is o f more importance tt'or 'be 
rrieahsvS! th^rifhts-of 'he individual member^ bfCbfisi'fi 
body are net f 0 s« sacrificed for its Dfeservatifen or ben- 
efit. — The risrht to teach, *o sel°et our own teachers, 
to form and express onint'or« arid to follow the dictates 
of conscience, are >i 1^ r'-es- r'-' d ntiimOairecT. 



i if. 



our having any voice in the matter. Hence, some 40 
or 50 individuals — mEmbers of the church, met in 
convention, and resolved to withdraw from the church 
South, and either unite with some other branch or order 
ofthe church, or organize ourselves into asepara'e body^ 
on such principles, and under such government as we 
may think accords best with our view s of church polity; 
and best calcu'att-d to promote the cause of true and 
vital religion. We wish therefore to obtain a copy of 
your Discipline, and should it he such to which we can 
conscientiously subscribe, we wish to connect ourselves 
with you. 

Yours respectfully 



The True Weslevnn gives the following letter from 
a correspondent residing in North Carolina. 

North Caroijista, Oct 2.5th, 1P46. 

Dear Sir, — T Y arn from • ther sources that you pub- 
lish a paper in ?New York City, called the "True We's- 
leyan."the organ of an order of Wesleyan Methodists, 
that holds no fellowship with slaveholders. I have, 
however, not been able to learn the terms of publica- 
tion; hut if you will forward the paper to me, as soon 
as I can ascertain the price, I will remit it to you- 

I also wish yo'.,if you possibly can. to forward to me 
a copy of your Church Discipline, by mail, with as lit- 
tle delay as possible, statins the price on the book or 
other-wise, and I will remit th >t also. 

One reason, with others, why I wish to procure a copy 
of your Discipline, as there are many Methodist.? with 
whom I am partially acquainted, who together witi 
myself, feel so Conscientiously scrupulous on the sttbjed 
of slavery ti-V v cannot hold fellowship nit], fche'M. 
E. Church Sou'li. Slither are we willing longer icac 
quit see in that pb\ • ■■■ which granted i s?pa- ate organic 
tion, and a tran of our rights in membership am 
property therewith^ without our consent, or without 



From the Cincinnati Herald. 
Twenty-Four Years Ago. 

The Tribune gives the following account of a fugiiive 
ilave, that occurred tweniy-four years ago. These 
Southern slaves, well treated as they are said to be, 
happy and contented, and too degraded withal, toappre- 
c< ate the blessings, always had a | assion for freedom, 
such privation suffered by a while man, in consequence 
of his unconquerable devotion to liberty, would be her- 
alded over the world,enlist the sympathies of all Chris- 
tendom and elevate the sufferer to the rank of a 
martyr. Alas! how contempiablc does heroism become 
in the shade of a black skin. 

The following interresting account of the escape of a 
slave is copied fr om the Commercial Advertiser of some 
day— we know not what — in the year 1822. The Ed. 
itorof that journal at that time did not hesitate to cy- 
pres the opinion that the slave who had endured so 
much in order to escape from bondage "should eurch; 
never again be brought under the eyes ofa task-master'" 
We believe the present Editors ofthe Commercial have 
not yet expressed any opinion respecting the oafragoiffl 
proceedings in the case ofthe slave George Kirk! 

The captain of a vessel from North Carolina called 
upon the Police for advisement respecting a slave he 
had unconsciously brought away in his vessel, under 
the following" curious circumstances: Three or four 
davs a/'er he had got to sfea,he began to be haunted ev- 
ery hour with tones of distress, seemingly proceeding 
from a human voice in the T ery lowest part ofthe ves- 
sel. A particular scrutiny was finally instituted, and it 
was concluded that the creature, whatever or whoever 
it might be, must be confined down in the run, under 
the cabin floor; and on boring' ahole with anauger, de- 
manding < V/ho's there T a feeble voice responded' 1 Poor 
nearo, MasmP Ic was clear enough, then, that some 
runaway negro had hid himself there before they sailed, 
trusting to Providence for his ultimate, .scape, "Having 
discovered him however, it v, as imposible to give him 
relief, for the captin had stowed even the cabin so com- 
pletely full with cotton, as bat just to leave room f,/ r 
himself and the mate to eat on; and as for unloading at 
sea, that was pretty much out of the question. Accor- 
dingly, there he had io lie, stretched at fall kwigtfc for 
a tedious interval of thirteen days, till the vessel "arrived 
in port and unloaded, receiving his food and drink through 
the auger hole. 

"The fellow's story is, now he is released that feeing^ 
determined to get awn) from slavery, he supplied him- 
self with eggs and bisc uit and some jugs of w ater, which 
lat'er he was ju-t on the point of depositing in his lurk- 
ing place, when he discovered the captain at a dis- 
tance, c»r»irig on board, and had to hurry down as fast 
as possible, and leave them: that he lived on nothing but 
his eggs and biscuit, till discovered bv the captain; r 
-vc«i gettmg n drop of water, except what he had ft 
;ood fortune to catch in his rmnd one dav, when-a ves- 
sel of M ater in the cabin was upset during a squaft, ana 
some of it ran down through the cracks of' the flow 
over him ' r 

We have heard it slated that this slave was allowed 
to go free, th • Poll.;,. 0 f our city at that period i ot bei r 

amb-iiojis, to pla- the • art of bjood-hour.d fox the sic «• 
holders. Of this how < 



-i', wc cannot s 



uosHvelv 



* 



#' 



FROM fHE ANTi-SLAVERY bf AADARD. j 

Th-i X'aiieofthe Union. — Mr. Brinkevhoof, a Dc'm- 
<ocratie raewber-.of-Cungress from- Ohioj tells the follow- 
ing gdbd stpryio a note to letter to his constituents. Mr. 
Graver, one of the parties in the Conversation, i* also a 
distinguished Democratic Cohgresman from this State: 

Directly' after the vote upon the amendment of Mr. 
Wilmot to the two Million hill, Mr. W. of South Caro- 
lina,- came to Mr G. of IS lew York, and began to talk 
nSoujt a dissolution of the Union. By the by, this cry 
uf a -disahition of the Union, by the South has long ceas- 
ed to fee. even a respectable bugbear In reply Mr. G. 
Sttid — " I am now discharging the duties of the fust of- 
fice J ever held; and I shali endeavor to discharge them 
conci -ntiously — at least io be as honest as the times will 
admit — (Sdiat ever may be the consequences. Now I 
do not profess to be a very sharp-sighted man, but I can 
see some things: and from what I have seen here and 
elsewhere, I have come to the -concmsirmthat the Union 
is of a d — ■ — d siqht more importance to you, than you are 
to life Uuicny Mr. W. h-ft. 



ma n t mm nm i „ 



NATIONAL REFORMERS. 

The Liberty Mule candidates of iVew, 
Yo"A with one exception. returned affirma- 
tive answers to the following inquires of the 
Na"fioliid rtetoTtners: 

" Will you if elected, use whatever iufluenCe you 
may possess to sustain or carry into effect rhe following 
measures: 

1: ffo prevent a'l future traffic in the public lands of 
this Sf?.to &&d of ;he United States, and cause them to 
be laid out in lanms and lots lor the free and exclusive 

use trtactual settles not possesed ofother lands.' 

2. To iimit the quantity of land any individual may 
hercafuicr posses in this State? 

[The National Reformers concede the expediency o f 
tiie present ho ers of land remaining in possesion thereo; 
tiil deatr/ji and then, after portioning the heirs with th 
legal limited quantity, that the surplus, if any, should !> 
;; >!<!, and the proceeds disiributed among the heirs.] 

3. To exempt the homestead from alienati >n on ac- 
count qf future debt, motgage, or other inability? 

4?Vo limit thebours of daily labor to ten on al!pub!i( 
;vck<, or in estab'.'shmone* cliarte---. J bv law? 

5. To adjust salaries to the average cornpensatitrn oi 
tiKcfd| labor? 

<;'. To liberate from prison indiscirminatly tlie remain 
in" victims' of the anti-rem cl ff'cultirs." 

John Thomas, candidate for Canal Commission 
aft ;r aa*wering affirmatively, turns upon them in tm 
oilpwiog stvle: 

"Now, gertueeaeiW having answered yriur question- 
tfulto and frankly, permit me io asfc you how it happen- 
that you have 'ov-re oked a question iufinat ly more im 
portant thnn them all? Y<.ur purpose sieies to be t 
purpose of humanity and mercy — how could \ou over- 
look: the claim 's of three millions of Americnn citizen.- 
who a r e not bnly hopelessly imprison to, but daily whip 
to unreqited toil, without "homestead" or Stands," de- 
prived f/f their wives and children and friends, kiekec 
■a: d cuffed, ;md insulted, and bartered away as met! 
brutes, and ruth*es!y deprived of every right of commut. 
manhood; without letters, without a Bible, without 
Saviour, arid without a ray of hope but. that vhii ! 
. ;>rin!»s from the companion of mankind, or the vengeftfy 
ofthe Almighty? Especially, now could v on overlook 
the case of this amaz'mg mass of your innocent and swl 
tVrinji fellow creatures, when you reflect that the who! 
power of t!ii-i government is wielded to hold them it. 
f brir miser* - mainly at the expanse of the North, rfj I 
(as I regard \ the e'xp>ns> of the very Wrongs wide- 
von are seeking to remed ." 

We Btrtnild Ike to know how the Rf form i%, in (h 
■n co*W awwfef the Mtetbtaa of Mc\ Taobfcs.-^ 
_ L,uertu. 



NATION AT LIBERTY PAI?EK AT 
WASHINGTON. 
The Committee appointed at the Anti Slavery Con- 
vention held at Chtca o in Juiv last, to take m asSres 
for starting a Liberty Pa >er at Washington, have made 
a report favorable to the project, from which we extract | 
t he Following, 

1. That the advancement of the Anti-S'avery cause 
imperatively require* tftffe establishment of an Anti Slav- 
ery paper in Washington, which niciy be regarded as the 
organ of the Aftii-Slavery people of ads nation. 

2. That the expenses oi such a paper will necessarily 
be greit, more than will be met for a year or two from 
the income of the establishment; and that it may be en- 
abled to move on fcifh energy and without pecuniary 
embarrassments, the committee recommend the raising 
of $5,000 by voluntary contributions from all parts of 
me country, which sum shall be placed in the hands of 
Lewis Tappan, Esq. of New York, as Trustee, subject 
to the order of Ihe editor and proprietor of the said pa- 
per, as his necessities may require, any time within 
'hree years from the first of Decembernext, afterwhich 
time, if there should remain any funds unca'led for, that 
the bahnce be expendid in the free circulation ofthe 
said paper among the non-slaveholders in the slave 
Slates. 

3. ! hat it is advisable that the paper be placed in 
the hands of an efficient and competent persons as his 
inilivi ual property, trusting for its final success in the 
atiergy of private enterprize; and that so much ofthe 

ibove sum as may be required for the establishment oi 
he paper, be considered as a gratuity to sustain the bur- 
len of the publication at its commencement. 

4. That Dr. G. Bailey, of Cincinnati the editor of 
he Philanthrophist and Morning Herald, has consented 
o take the responsibility ofthe establishment, as editor 
md proprietor, on these, terms, and with the subscrip- 
ion list of the Philanthrophist, if the required amount 
j r aised in set-son, will commence the publication of a 
National Liberty Paper at Washington, in the Dish ict 
if Columbia, on the first of December next. 

5. That John G. Whittierof Mass.,:md Rev, Amos 
\. Phelps of New York, have given encouragement 
hat they will tct as assistant editors the former in the 
Literary im d the latter in the Religious department ot 



Jo:>:a, Aaron Street. Salem, Hewv Co. ■ 
Dist. of Columbia, J. Bijgelow, Wash. 
Maryland, J. E. Snpdgrass, Baltimore. 
Kentucky, Henry Needham, Louisville. 
Eastern Tennessee, John Aiken, Cloyd's Creek, 

Biount Co. f~-m r - 

Western Tennessee, Wm. Wyatt, yayetieville, 

Lincoln Co. 
Z^orlh Caroline: 

South Carolina, Hugh M. Nisbet, Torbit's Store. 

Alabama,}. Caskey, Caston. Sumpeter Co. 
Missouri, Henry Smith, St. Louis. 
Georgia, John R. Dow, Augusta. 
Mississippi, John Caughey, Storkvillo. 

7. That the Anti-Slavery papers throughout the 
country are requested to copy this roport, and keep the 
stibject before their readers, and urge the importance of 
liberal actiou and prompt payment, until the requisite 
sum be obtained. And that the State agents attend 
promptly to this business, and takenpon themselves the 
responsibility of appointing sub-agents, and using the 
best measures immediately to enlist the liberality and 
the energy of their respective states in behalf of this 
subject. It should !>e remembered, that if our paper is 
to be issued on the first of December, the funds should 
all be in by the 10th. November, and at latest by tho 
first of December. 

CHAS. V. DYER, Clvn, Chicago. 
' Z. EASTMAN, do 

C. DURKEE, Southport, W. T. 

J. J. ITEMING, Milwaukie, la. 

G. BECKLEY, Ann Arbor, Mich. 



be paper; 

6. '« hat subscriptions of file amount of$Sanclupi 
Wftrd, be solicited from friends in every part of theeoun- 
i v, to make up the sum of ?>i>,000, and that the follow- 
ing individuals are appointed as agents for then- rcspec- 
tye states, toreceive, collect, and forward to the Trus 
• e, Mr. Tappan, at New York, whatever may h 
aid, for this purpose: a"d that Mr. Tappan be re 
mested to acknowledge the amounts received weekly 
'i the Emancipator, until th>- first of December, and af- 
er that time tnonthh , until the full amount be made up. 
md that other Anti-Slavery papers be requested to 
•opy. 

STATE AGENTS. 
Maine, Austin Willey, Hallowell. 
New Hampshire, Hon. Joseph Cil'ey. 
Vermont, Rodnev V. Marsh, Brandon. 
Massachusetts, J.a*. F. Carter, Lancaster 
Rhode Island. Wm. Alpin, Providence. 
Connecticut, Francis Gillet, 
Eastern N. York. Lewis Tappan. N. Y. 
Western, N. Y F,. O. Sheppa.d, Arcade, 
New Jersey, John Grimes, Boontnn. 
Eastern Pennsylvania, Wm. Elder, Phila. 
Western, Penn. lohn A. Wills, Pittsburg. 
Northern Ohio, L. L. Rice, Chaveland. 
Southern Ohio, Thomas Ih-aton. 
Northern I >/■■"»<*, V. B. Crocker, S. Bend 
So 'them /••., H W. De P.iy, In-'ianopoiis 
Ithvois. OiiaAtf I W irl.ion Chicago.' 
J'l'c'iioon, Chas. H St-, v. art, D-troif , 
Ji i.;co...i-i. K. iv. • [top, JMil^iaukie. 

" m. u, u Ion. 1 



Sold to pat his Debts! — We noticed, a short time 
since, the sudden disappearance frOi» Charleston, S. C, 
of a certain Alderman and Bank Director, on account 
f debts which he could not paj', anti who was married 
o a mulatto woman who had six children. It turns 
ou'uow that this mulatto woman was u slave', and con- 
seqmtnly the six children are slaves also!— The result 
is, that the creditors of the absconding alderman have 
made arrangements to seize the wife and children and 
sell th- m for her husband's and their father's debts/ 

Think of that, ye pious and Christinn ptople, iq this 
republican and Christian ccontry.' a man's wife and 
children — bone of his bom- and blcod of his blood — are 
to be sold to pay ids debts.' Here is one of the legitimate 
fruilr, of Slavery; it first encourages a man to libidinous 
habits with his slaves, and then when misfortune over- 
takes hiin with a group of his own begotten slave chil- 
dren around him, lie vees the remorseless creditor come 
and seize upon the issue <?f his lions, and the wife of his 
bosom, and jell them in the shambles like beasts. 

There will be a fearful account to settle some day, for 
this horrible state of things; and every man who dors 
not lift his heart and voice against it will have some 
share in that account. — Washington Patriot. 

Inconsistency. In this age of, li^ht and 
progression it is folly of the most rediculons 
Sort, to labor lor the redemption of the bodv 
from bondage, while we are riveting fetters 
uopn the conscience and enslaving the im- 
mortal mind. This is what may be called 
elevating downwards. 

NATIONAL LIBERTY PAPER. 

Our Friends will see by a notice in another column 
preparations are makeing to start a Liberty paper at 
Washington. This is an importaut movement and 
should be carried through. Let every one having the 
means see to it that this is carried through. It will ac- 
ci mplish great things. 

fJOThe Mexican War has already cost 
the nation /An* thousand men, (including 
ilin-r slain in Battle and by sickness.) ana 
nhiAU 'irii' hund' rd tt::d nff.tf mil/ioua uf 
to.,- a. ALL* fr Oi i £>J*>A * jl>A' i\ 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, NOVEMBER 28 



1846. 



Hearts dead to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanity withers. Keep. 



THE ELECTIONS. 
We have not as yet received any returns of the liber- 
ty vote in New Jersey, but presume that our state has 
fallen off fr>.m Inst year like Pennsylvania, not from any 
turning back on the part of Liberty men but from an 
apathy which has been general among all parties. Four- 
teen Liberty men did not go the Polls in Boonton a- 
lone, gqm« from sickness and others for various reasons 
which we do not consider good. The falling off from 
the vote of 1 844 among the Whigs & democrats has 
beep immense. In P- nu. each of these parties have 
polled about 75.000 votes less than they did in '44, nor- 
has this falling off been confined to Penn., it has been 
the case in nearly all the states, and we have the cheer- 
ing reflection, that while other parties have had a vast 
falling off in their aggregate vote, the Liberty Party has 
had a verv decent gain in all the states < xcept Penn. & 
Jersey, and in some of them a very larne gain. This 
is very encouraging indeed. Let us hold on, our votes 
are a terror to evil doers everv where. 

We shall give the result of the elections together in 
a future number of the Freeman. 



that it was wrong to begin it, if :he.\ go for ii after it is | 
commenced, even to prevent the Mexicans fr m beating j 
us. This only involves them in deeper guilt. We be- j 
lievc it is the duty of all parte es, to demand at once a j 
discontinunnce of this war and the withdrawal of our 
troops from the Mexican territory. Let us cease to be! 
aggre-ssors in the matter. It Christians, Politicians, all, \ 
through the free states were to do this in tones of thun 
der we believe it would be done. Who will remain si- | 
lent? 



MISCELJ&fE 6 US 



THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NEW 
JERSEY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held 
in Trenton in Jan. 1847. Further notice will be given 
in time of particulars. 



$5^ Progress in. Maryland. — A Baltimore Corres- 
pondent of the Anti«-Slavery Standard says "Clagget, who 
made himself notorious in the Legislature lasU w inter 
by offering a bill to suppress the Saturday visitor; Hook, ( 
who seconded him, awl Reeder who ofli red a bill to 
^ell the free blacks to pay the State debt, have all been 
defeated in their respective district; while Mr. Ege from 
one of the upper Counties, who stood up so nobly for 
the freedom of the press last winter in opposition to 
Clagget's bill has been reelected by a large majority; 
and we flatter ourselves that his liberal views had much 
to do in bis election." Votes tell sorne-times. 



"We are the Saints-" — Most of our readers have 
probably heard the story of the founders of Connecticut 
who, in order to furnish themselves a justification of 
dispossessing the Indiana of the soil they had set their 
hearts upon, met in solemn council and passed the fcl- 
resolutions: 

1. Resolved, That God's heritage belongs to the 
Saints. 

2. Resolved, That this is God's heritage. 

3. Resolved, That we are the Saints. Wash. Patriot. 



THOMAS CLARKSON. 

The Qct. Number of the British and Foreign Anti- 
Slaverv Reporfor brings the information of the death of 
this vnerable. Philanthropist- 
He died at his resideuse, Playford Hall, on the 26 Sept. 
in his S7year. 

His who! life has been devoted to the relief of down- 
troddfn humanity, and his name, will occupy a conspicu- 
ous place in the world's history, anions great, good. and 
self denying men; and millions of the poor and persecu- 
te of the human race will pour out their bear's in thank - 
fulnes to a kind providence for making his life a long 
one Hi 5 d *ath is 1 am ;nt?d by all who had a know!- j 
edge of his history, and is spoken of by the unshaded- 
ed of th<> Press and Pulpit with a becoming regard. As 
decriped as he was in • body, he was vigorous in | 
blind, and his loss is regarded as a great one by all who 
love the cause of the suflering poor. The Executive! 
Committee of the American and Foreign Anti -Slavery i 
Society immediately on rec$yihfi; the news of his death I 
held a meeting and pass d appropriate resolution - for 
the occasion and such other meetings have been held 
in varions parts of the country. Our space will not per- 
nit us to copy any of them. 

We suppose without diubt, his life will be published 
which will make an interesting book for all the lovers 
of humanity. 



The Lawlessness of Slavery. — The following which we 
copy from the Newark Sentinel, shows how much pro- 
tection slaves have at the South. A company of blacks 
cannot be found together, but they arc fired upon and as 
many of them killed as can be, and then- murderers are 
not punishable by law. They are not even required by- 
law to (inquire whether they are five negroes or slaves, 
or for what purpose they are convened. Yet our time- 
serving priests and politicians are silent, or telling that 
the sla ves are contented and happy. It is false ,they an 
not contented or happy nor can they be. Contentment 
would be crime under such circumstances. 

A Nest of Runaway Slaves. — The N. 0. papers 
of the. 30th report with perfect coolness'that a company 
of 1 "v were suprised huddled in a neighboring swamp, in 
;:n dd shantee, eating their supper! — They took to 
their heels, w hereupon a volley was fir^d at them, kill- 
ing a man and woman and badly wounding two women. 
T'le rest, escaped. The slaves had a number of musk- 
ets, but did not fire them . The two women were 
brought up to town the same night,; and it is not known 
whether their wounds were mortal or not. 



MEXICO. — We cannot give utterence to our detes- 
tation of the infamous invasion of Mexico by thetroops of 
this Nation under the Sanction andby the direction of our 
g vernment. To sav nothing about the horrors < f war, 
this movement is so uncalledfor, and so unspeakably uu- 
just, that it will not adjsait of any thing in the shape of an 
apoh.gv, and stands out in bold relief before the world 
as a movement of unmitigated wickedness, involving i-. 
disgrace all thos" who participate in it eith-r directly or 
indirectly. No man or set of men ea-i say their skirts are 
free from deep and damning guilt in this matter if they 
voted to raise tro ps and money for the bas- purpose, o! 
carrying on this war, or who give sanction to it. .It is 
not sufficient lor meB to say they disprove of the *ar? 



A LIBERTY ALM-VNAC for J847 has just 
been pul.liched by William rfirnsd, N j. 5 S;>ruc<s Sreet 
N. York In adition to n great variety of useful and in- 
rerresiing matter, it contains an account of Slavery & 
the Slave Trade in the District of Columbia, which 
■should be carefully read and understood, by every A- 
merican. This Almnnc should have an extensive circu- 
lation. It contains 48 closely printed page's. 

The Newark Temperance Adoeate is out upon the 
Morristoivn Jerseyman for aeeuseing it of favoring the 
Democrats. This is an old trick of the whigs and whig 
editors especeally of-calling a!i locrdocos, who refuse 'o 
sustain the timesrrving and corrupt course of the whigs. 
The Temperance Advocate has sp<'ken in fn- oi of 
carrying Temperance to the ballot box, and this is 
reason sufficient in the estimation of tneae honest, sapi- 
ent whigs why they are helping the democrats, although 
they know at the same time, that these Temperance 
voters regard the d> mocratic party as a mass 
of corruption that they would not touch with a 'en foot 
pole. We repeat this is an old whig trick practised to 
slander and frighten honest and tndttnendaut men. 

gtj-COME TO H' FEE FAIR. f# 

The Free Church Ladi-s Society «-ill havoaJF^WI 
on Christmas day in the L^rge Carpenter Shop near the 
Factory. 

A Dinner -will be provided for all who vi h. 
A greet variety of ri fwshtti nta and un BESOirmoa' of 
useful *«d Fwy ii s f'ir saie. 

N. B. The Piitiic are bviited to attend. 

Dec. 23 1840. 



{^THE PROGRESS OF FREE TRADE. — The 
Czar of 'he Russias has alreadv relaxed his tariff, and 
to mark his apprecia'ion of the Free Trade movement 
in England, he has caused the creat speech made bv 
Sir Robert Peel in the house of Commons, in favor of 
commercial liberb , to be translated into the Russian 
'anguage, for the purpose of dissemination. Western 
Citizen. 



/?ev. Joseph C. Style, of Rtehmmd, 
Pastor of the United Presbvterean Church 
(X. S.) has declined the tu'e ofD. D., con- 
ferred by the Transylvania University, 
considering it a bauble unworthy the dig- 
nity of a servant of Christ. Sentinel. 



TO SXUFP TAKERS.— Tt is said that 
the stubs of cigars are gathered up from the 
streets and around the doors of the crog-fre- 
ries and other filthy places, aud sold to 
snuff makers. 

WHICH IS THE MOST PERFECT 
POPULAR GOVERNMENT? 

"That," said Bias, is where the laws have no super- 
ior." "That," said Thales," where the inhabitants are 
neither too rich, nor too poor." "That, "said Anachar- 
sis, 'he Scythian, "where virtue is honored and vice dc- 
tstcd." "That ," said PIttacus, ^wh'ose dignities are 
always conferred upon the virtuous, and never upon the 
base." "That," said C'eobo'us, " where the citistens 
fear blame more'Imn punishment.'' "That," said Chile, 
"where the laws are more regarded than the orators." 

But Solon said, "Tha*. w here any injury dene to the 
meanest subject, is an insult to the whole community.'' 

Solon is right. — And that man is not possesed of a 
true, generous, noble & Christ like heart who does not 
fe<d himself injured when his poor neighbor is run over. 
Ed. Freeman. 



It has been stated in the House of Commons by (He 
Solicitor-General (Sir Fitzroy Kel'yjtbat, since the 
\ ear 1SC0, nearly twenty innocent persons have -been 
-entenced to death. AS. Standard. 

K 

Corporal punishment has beep abolished in the Dan- 
ish army, except in cases of ffii grant deltnqneny. 



The Fit atdp.nity. — A society has been formed in 
Paris under this name, composed of laboring people, of 
both sexes for tin- purpose o"' mutual insurance agait st 
illness and accidents, it is to be up mfhe largest scale 
ai d admits persons of all ages and conditions as mem- 
bers. Ex. 

This Fraternity leaves. Sons of T» mpcranre, Rech- 
abites and Odd Fdlov-diip a good ways in the rear. 

The F.vangclicol Alliance seems to be 
;>n ohje<vt of universal contempt. ;is it should 
he, hoth on aecottt ct its 'doctrinal basis," ' 
and its action on the slavery question. 



$5*The following lines are from the pen of Dr SnoJ- 
grass* ef Baltimore. They speak thespirit of Libert v, 
and therefore we publish them. 

''We jui// speak out — we will he heard, 

Though all earth's systems crack; 
We will not spare a single word, 

Nor take a letter back. 
We speak the, Truth — and what care we 
For hissing and for scorn? 
.. When some faint gleaminsjs we can see 
Of Freedom's coming morn! 

Let liars fear, \et cowards shrink^ 

Let traitors turn away; 
Whatever we have dared to think, 

That dare we also suy. 

Whate'cr we deem the prop of Wrong, 

Time-honored though it be, 
We break — nor fear the heavens will fall, 

Because the earth is free. 

The. only chain we dare not break, 
Is our own plighted word, 
* To plead for our poor brother's sake, 
And perish or be heard." 



From the Liberty Standard. 

TAKE IT EASY. 

Take it easy! Life at longest 

But a leng thened shadow is, 
And the brave as well as strongest, 
Dare not call to-morrow his. 
Take it easy! for to-day 
All your plans of wisdom lay. 

Taka i t easy ! done w ith fretting, 

Meet your neighbor with a smile, 
From the rising' sun to setting 
Live the present all the while.' 
Take it easy/ every vow 
Make in reference to now. 

Take it easy! what is hidden, 
Or is wronsr, or seemeth so, 
Leaye it as a thing forbidden. 
Out of which a curse may grow! 
Take it easv ! never pry 
Into what will cause a sigh 

Take it easy.' daily turning 

To the monitor within, 
Ola its altar always burning, 
Keep an incense free from sin? 
Take it easy; never fear 
While you keep a conscience clear! 

Take it easy! ever leaning 

To the side of truth and right; 
Happiness from Virtue gleaming, 
Peace of mind from wisdom bright.' 
Take it easy! for at best, 
Life is but a sorry jest. 

We are totally opposed to the" mixture of rellgioi; 
with politics. — Bennett's Herald. 

And we are totally opposed to all politics which es- 
chew Religion, and all that Re'igion which dot's not 
make itself felt in politics, and with every other legiti 
mate field of human activity. If a man's Religioi) 
leaves him when he enters upon the discharge of h ; 
political duties, we apprehend it very rarely (inds hin 
again. — iV. Y. Tribune. 

#3»It is said the Pope intends to subs! i 
tute perpetual irtitoriSrintii&rrt, for the ptonis- . 
meat of death, which lie desires to abolioi 
entirely. 



TEMPERANCE. 

Fr-'in the Green Mountain Spring. 

COLD WATEi?. 

What makes the birds in wrody bowers, 
Sin far more sweetly after showers, 
When brighter smile the leaves and flowers? 

Cold Water. 



t>Xo man having a becoming iv . ,t 
for himself and the comfort of others, vwil 
i. hcw or smoke tobacco, or lake snuff 

They are filthy, disgusting practices offen- 
sive to friends, and often puis power into 
the hands of enemies. 



NOTICES. 



- What makes your teeth so clean and white 
As Indian iv'ry polished bright ; 
You sure may show them with delight? 

Cold Water. 

Wh^t, when the scorching son is high, 
Our burning thirst doth satisfy, 
And leave no longer "more to try?" 

Cold water. 

I 

What gives to maiden's cheeks the hue 

Th it to the rose is given by dew, 

And decks each grace with beauty new? 

Cold water. 

What gives to youth its joyous mien, 
Its active limbs, and relish keen 
For various sport, and varied scene? 

Cold water. 

What gives to age youth's nimbleness, 
And takes away its weariness, 
And maketh all life's trouble less? 

Cold water. 

What cleanses our corporeal frames; 
From foul diseas and dead'ning pains, 
And pours new life into our veins? 

Cold water. 

Brattleboro, April 28,1746. BETA. 



It is said of two hundred and three pris 
tiers in Auburn Prison, all bat one were 
addicted to drunkenness. 

TENNESSEE. — On the 19th ult, at Overton Tenn.. 
Edsvard O'Neill, a'i habitual drukard, murdered hi> 
wife and five chi'dr- n, set his house on fire, and then 
committed suicide, falling upon the pile of murdered 
v ictims. A daughter of his escaped. What fiends rum 
makes of men. Sig. Lib. 

Joi n Young, the Whig Governor elect, in N. Y. it is 
aid voted for "License" in his Town last spring. 

Rum's Doings. — At Cincinnati, on the evening of the 
ioth ult an elderly man named Philip Kli brink was 
•een to pass the Dennison House in a state of intoxica- 
tion. He was found next morning dead, lying behind a 
nortarbox; his neck was broken, as is supposed by l he 
all. When discovered the rats had eaten ofi'his nose 
.nd some of his fingers. What a terrible lesson to rum 
honkers. Newark Temperance Advocate. 

One Daniel Gibler, in a fit of intoxication, inhuman- 
y murdered his wife on Wednesday week, in Rose 
ownship, Carroll co , Ohio. He cut her open with a 
> nknife until her entrails oome out. — She survived a 
' out twenty-four hours after the attack. Gibler is now 
n jail at Carrollton. Sig. Lib- 

Temper ance. — We understand that there 
is but little doubt that the Legislature will 
enact a law authorizing the people of New 
Castle County to hold election in each Hun- 
dred to delermine whether taverns Khali 

M intoxb.a'iji n drinks or not. Blue Hetiv 
Chicken, Ht'nun^ton, Delaware. 

The Mexican war has in six months destroyed about 
'.000 Is.' s perhaps, yet it has not done quite as bad as 
•e. fe m the Siiine time in! mperance has des roved 
tuore t..un twice thai, number for tnih nation alone. 



The Liberty Almanac for 1847 — Is a pamphlet 
of 48 closely printed pages prepared with great ca e by 
a master hand, and i lustrated by s- vera engravings de- 
signed and executed expressly for this work. In order 
to give the widest possible circulation to this va uuble 
Anti-Slavery document, the wholesale price has been 
reduced to the following rates: 

250 copies or upwards at $30 00 per 1,000. 

100 or 200 copies " 3 50 " 100. 
.50 copies forS2— j25 for $1, &c. 

All orders must enclose the Cash, and should desig- 
nate the conveyance by which they are to be forwarded 

Also, for sale, Rademacher's German Liberty Alma- 
nac for 1847; with a large variety of Anti-Slavery books, 
tracts, engravings, &e. at the Depository of the Amer, 
and For. Anti-Slavery Society, No. 5 Spruce-st. by 
WILLIAM HARNED. 



{-•The AMK/rYCAX MISKI0VR AY, ' 
is a new name given to the Union Mission- 
ary, which is published at No 5 Spruce 
Street N. Y., and is the organ ef the 
American Missionary (Society, organized in 
Sept last at. a convention held in Albany. 
The Society refuses donations from Slave- 
holders. Lewis Tappan of i\ew York is 
Treasurer. 



?e>THE PRISONER'S FRIEND, is the title of a 
weekly periodical devoted to the abolition of Capital 
Punishment and the Reformation of the Criminal, pub- 
lished at No. 40 Cornhill, Boston, Mass., by Charles & 
lohn M. Spear. Terms, one dollaa in advance. 



CHRISTIAN INVESTIGATOR. — is the title 
ofa small monthly paper by William Goodell at Hone- 
oye, Ontario County N. Y. at 50 cents per annum. It 
is an excellent paper, and Mr Goodell is abundantly 
qu;ilifi"d to do justice to its name. 



ft^SHOWER BATH&g$ 
A few shower Baths, ready for immediate use 
for sale low at this offiice. Persons knowing the value 
of such articles a r e not willing to be without them. 



BLANK DEEDS for sale at this Office. 



LIBERTY Minstrel. — A few copies of Chirks Lib- 
erty Minstrel for sale at the Office of the Freeman. 
Every singing Abolitionist should have one of these 

books. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for sale o.\ this 
office anion;; which are the following. 
Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West Indies. 
Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is, v 
Life of Granville sharp, 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Siave Trade, 
Charming on Slavery, &.C. 





VOL. ?. 



BOOM ON JAN. 



1847. 



THE FREEMAN 

WJI.L BE rt' HUSHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Pkoprietor. 
JJoonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



provision of the United Slates Constitution which de - 
clares that "the citizens of each Statp shall he entitled 
lo all privileges and immunities of citizens in the sever- 
al States." The Si . Louis Republican of the -2th ins;, 
says, that under this decision"_/Zre negro men and two r.e- 
gro women, professing or claiming to be free, were whipped 
and sent out of the city!" The Republican ( a Whig 
p>. per) adds; "if the County Court will follow up this 
decision, they w ill soon free the city of a nuisance and 
give greater security to slave property." What is justice, 
« hat is Humanity, what are constitutional provisions, 
GREAT DOINGS IN MISSOURI.— A great mass whel , tnpy interfere with the security of slave property, 
meeting of the citizens of. St. Louis has been held re- ])„ not f ac t s ;;k 0 these show the nec< ssitj ol adher- 
centl, to take measures to keep the slfcvesfrom walking j i n g t Q 0lir doctrine of"no union with Slaveholders." 

In connection with the following, we give the follow- 
ing from the National Intelligencer published at Wash- 



T E R M S. 
Single copy 25. cents per annum, orfor 12. numbers 
10. copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must he post paid. 



away and prefering liberty at the north to bondage a 
tooag the christian "Patriarchs" of the south. They 
have adopted a constitution and rt commended such or- 
ganizations all over the state. They adopted a series 
of resolutions among which arc the following. Who 
can doubt that the slaves are contented ana happy or 
that slavery is a divine institution ? 

Jlssoked That the president of this association request 
in the name of this meeting, the city authorities to a- 
d..pt such or Ji ian:-2S as mjyj ha necessary to prevent all 
negroes from leaving- the home of their masters after 
dark, whether with or without permishion of their en - 
plover or owner, a"d proper signals be given, in at least 
three points of the city, announcing tbe hour for negroes 
to retire. 

Resolved, That this meeting consider all "negro 
pr> aching," and "negro teaching" dangerous to the hap- 
piness, quiet and safety of ou. slave population; in view 
of which, we earnstly request the city authorities to en- 
act ordinances, effectually to prevent the continuance 
|f of these evils. 

They also adapted a memorial tothcLegislature,froin 
which v. c extract the fw'lowing. 

"Your memorta'ists father present: That the existence 
of negro churches, managed and controlled by negroes, 
is a great injury to the va'ue of slave property, asaiiord- 
ing to evil disposed persons an opportunity to instil the 
poison of fanatical principles wiih ut the possibility of 
detection, into ills minds of our slaves. 

That negro schools, under existing circumstances, 
are evils thiH should be abated. 

In vi-w of these facts '.our memorialists pray your 
honorable bodv to enact laws — 

To prevent all free negroes or mulaltocs from coming 
Into or settling in this state, u| on any pretext whatever 
and we refer to the 20th section of the 2d a tide of the 
lenstitutipu.of this state, as requiring such laws to be 
passed. 

Tnat all free negroes or mullatoes, not born in this 
stale, who are residing here, may he removed from this 
■ate. 

That the law allowing the emancipafion of slaves, 
to reside in the state, may be. repeal id; and that all slaves 
hereafter emancipated shall be removed from the state 
by the person setting such s ave free. 

That all assemblages of negroes and mullatoes may 
be prohibited, except during the <Zay time on the sab- 
[bath, for religious worship— such worship being con- 
ducted by some regularly ordained or licensed white 
minister or priest. 

I That all schools for the education of negroes or mul- 
latoes be prohibited; whether taught and kept by whites 
or blacks.'' 

lie take the following from the Penn- 
sylvania Freeman. 

"Judge KrUiriof the Circuit Court at St. Louis, Mo., 
has decided that the laws of that State restricting the 
right of colored citizens of other States to come within 
ik limits are Constitutional, a d this in the face of tha* 



ingfon. The same despicable means are necessary to 
sustain slavery every where. These tyranic- 1 laws are 
no new things, they have existed i > the old slave, states 
for scores of years, and must he enacted in the new or 
s'avery cannot he established or continrled. Can an in- 
stitution be right that requires such infamous legislation 
'.o sustain it. 

LAW OF MARYLAND CONCERNING FREE 
NEGROES 

"The article below from the Marlborough Gazette 
contains information which must int' rest the people of 
this District. It is desirable that the acts of the Mary 
'and ;,nd Virginia Legislatures whioh affect the interests 
of the District should be publishnd in the papers of Wash- 
ington and Georgetown as soon as they are passed. 

Of (he law referred to below, I was wholly i^noran* 
till / read the paragraph in the Gazette; and /must say, 
though a slaveholher, that I have read it with surprise 
and indignation. Indeed, I question whether a law like 
that referred to is c«\v tiiutional. I presume the conse- 
quence of an inability to pay the|second fine (five hun- 
dred dollars) is tlie sale of the person off nding, and he 
is thus though free, to be made a slave perhaps for life. 

Can any state, by a legislative enactment, reduce a 
free man to slavery without being guilty of fe'ony or 
some high crime? It is, moreover exceedingly unjust to 
the free colored population, and injurious to the whie 
citizens of the District. A poor free negro,for instance, 
who happens to have a slave wife and children in Mary, 
land, is absolutely prohibited from visiting his family un- 
der the penalty of being reduced to slavery, and a citi- 
zen is prevented from sending his free servant into that 
State on his necessary business or to carry one there, as a 
nurse or a laborer. What would Maryland sav if the 
Corporation of Washington were, bv way of retaliation,to 
enact a law declaring every slave who comes to this city" 
from that State on his master's business or otherwise' 
a free man? The Maryland law is not less unjust and 
iniquitous, and must, be regarded as a wrong to the fn e 
black, and an injury and insult to the white population 
of our District. Justice 

FREE NEGROES.— Two free negroes from the 
District of Columbia were arrested in this village on 
Sunday last for coming into the State of Maryland in 
violation of a law of the last legislature. They were 
fined $20 each, which sum being secured to the inform- 
er, they were discharged. The fine under law f<>r the 
secon I off nee is $500, one ha f to the Colonization So- 
ciety, and 'he other to the informer. Under the law 
of 1S39 these restrictions were confined to free negroes 
coming from other Stater, but the law under which 
these negroes were arrested subjected free negrae.sfrom 
the District of Co'umbia to all the penalties of the law 
of 1839, Several arrests have been made undei this 
law, and, as few ef the parties interested are persumed 
Co know of its existence, it would be well for the Dis- 
liic papers to publish this article. -illuf Iboiougk Q^zetie. 



[A vM". grevious occurrence lately took place under 
color of the above law. A very worthy free negro was 
returning to the city, in company with his employer, 
( Mr. Tucker, pumpmaker of this city,) on their way 
from Mr. Calvert's, ne ir B adetisburgh, whither they 
had been to repair his pump. After passing through Bla- 
densburgh, and being on the high road on their v ay to 
the city, they were pursued by some men from Bladens- 
burgh, and the negro forcibly taken from the cart of his 
employer, on which he was journeying peacably home- 
ward, and carried hack to Bladensburgh and put in con- 
finement; a"d what aggravated the injury was, that be- 
cause he would not submit quietly- to be bound and car- 
ried off, he M as bea f en and otherwise maltn ated — his 
employer and master, a white man, standing by all the 
time and remonstrating against the arrest and ill usage 
of his servant — Nat. Intelligencer. 



Hear what the South says concerning 
the conquest of this Government in Mexico 
We take the following extract from the 
rih^rleston Oourrier. How much longer 
will the North continue to do the dirty 
work of slaveholders. 

THE OBJECTS OF MEXICAN CONQUEST. 

"Besides, every battle fought in Mexico and every 
dollar spent there but in sures the acqusition of Territory 
which must widen the field of Southern enterprise and 
power in the futrue. And the final result will be to read- 
just the whole ballance ofpower in the confedergacy, so as 
to give us control over the operations of the Government 
in all time to come If the South be true to themselves, 
the day of depression is gone and gone forever," 

"This is perceive 1 in other quarters, and the danger 
now is from such a combination at the North as may o- 
ver-awe the Administration and Congress. A combi- 
nation moy be made upon the principle of opposition to 
the Mexican war upon anti-slavery feeling, and in favor 
of restoring the high tariff under a pretext to meet the 
increased expenditures of Government. It is this that 
has swept Pennsylvania and Ohio in the recent eleetioes, 
and it may do the same in New York and Maine. If 
the Democratic party be overthrown in those Stales, it 
will bring into power a strong combination deeply hos- 
tile to the South. The first development will be, a 
move ment to prohibit the introduction of Slavery .; 'o 
any territory to be acquired in Mexico, and then sestore 
to a great extent, the high duties that have beeo recent- 
ly abolished. These to points are well calcwIfeUd to ral- 
ly the most powerful interests against us-, and to give to 
agitators and demagogues their brightest prospects of 
triumph." 

"If they succeed in restricting Slavery one inch below 
the Missouri comp/romise, then if we submit to it, we 
shall deserve our degraded destiny. When this issue 
is tendered us, let the consequences be what they may 
we must meet it as become men and freemen. It will 
be no time to an ue. Not that we should care to reserve 
acquired territory merely as a habitaton for slaves, but if 
they succeed in fixing restrictions against that institution 
specially, it will be moral degradation and insult to us 
which if we bear in peace, will make us the fit subjects 
of despotism." 

And yet the ''North has nothing to do with Slavery. 
No, nothing to do against it, but all to do for it; to fight 
and conquer free Territory that it may be peopled with 
Slaveholders and slaves; to vote for Slaveholders; catch 
md return rnnawity slaves, that's all. With, "to 
Southern dialect means against, and our Nc 
dough facts u derstand it well, and bow down to t, the 
most obedient and meanest of all slaves, doing vo -.. . . ■ 
iomage to the maaaest despo.ism. Ed. Freemai 



• 



FREEMAN 

BOON I ON J A N L : A • L Y 1 



rm rj 17 



"ST A T 



HYaits doad to the claims of man, cafinot be alive to ; 
the commands of God : and religion cannot, flourish on | 
the ground where hpaanit) withers, hap. 

^Thc publication s? this paper has been d laved 
for the sake of particulars respecting the Stale faceting 
The arfap^ements are committed to a committee in the 
neighborhood of Trenton. Tins cotnmittee has already 
s ••-iled the time and some other matters, and are in a 
fair wav to do up the remainder of the ;'rrangem- nts in 
ii satisfactory manner. There are some business mat- 
ters of importance to come before the meeting, among 
which the cuSes involving t e freedom of the New 
Jeroy slaves under the n- w Constitution, w hich are still 
lyin^ i r > our courts undecided, are the most prominent. 

At the last Annual meeting it was decided to carry 
them forward to the court of Errors, and a committee 
was appoint d in the vicinity of Trenton to conduct fho 
mutter. A committee was also appointed to ra*se the 
ti; eessrf-y fund;., $250 being required for the purpose, 
llowrnitch of this tnoni'v has been sent in to the com- 
mittee, we know not, hut are afraid not enough to in- 
demnify the committee for the liabilities they have in- 
• chirred. This committee consisted of 25 persons, in dif- 
ferent parts of the state who it was thought might raise 
in their -respective towns $10, each. Ifs.me could not 
raise ->n much as that, we are certain that others migi 1 
rais<» more so the S'trn requisite might be made out. We 
here give the names of »hat committee. 

Thomas V -Johnson of Newark; Jonathan Parkhurst 
of Springfield; John Oimes, of Boonton: Isaac Van 
Is' ticom and Benjamin' Ctanf*. of Paterson; Jocob L. 
Brotherton, of Dover; Dr C. Allen, of Deeketton n; 
James Hi we, of Jersy City; Alex. H. Freeman, of 
Orange; T. D. Weld, of Belleville; B. Rush P'umly o 
T; 'trtonj Enoch Middle ton and Peter Ellis, of Cros.- 
wice; Samuel \linson, of Sandhill; Charles Stokes of 
M -Ji'^stown; B*v Joseph Parish, of Burtfng'lon: Jaeol 
Ford, <>f Alleiitown; George T. Atkinson, of Mulliesi 
Kill; Al xander Black and D. C. Ogden, dt Swedes^ - 
rough; Dr. C, F. Clark and U'm. E. Cooper, of Wo-d- 
horv; Henry Keep, of Madison; Joseph J. Fitzgerald, 
of West Miiford; and Samuel Hack t, Wood town. 

Let no fri nd of Liberty think it not w-rth While t" 
contribute because he is not oneof the committee. Fund' 
will be wanted to pay arr^ara^'es for Business transae 
ted in these cases at i he first t r ; a ] The society vet 
owe A'van Stewart about $70 for his extvmses whil- 
engaged in the suit, and this should be paid bv theNev 
J' rsey people for he gave hi* services. What the so- 
c'rety owes blm is for monev he paid out of his ow 
pocket. We hope the committee of 25 will do what 
the v -can before the state meeting at which time the 
soei' fy will be pleased to see, hear, and feel their re- 
port. 

We expect the committee appointed to conduct Hie 
Cases a u the Courts will make a ful' report of the pre- 
press] made, at the annual meeting on the 29 inst. a 
Tjenlori. 

We Aope the friends will not fail to publish this Mee 
fing in all possible wavs.aml it would be matter of great 
r»j .icing to see > great gathering of the true friends ol 
liberty on the occasion. 



The next A .SI\1 
JERSEY AaT'{'^ 
in the city of TRElN 



>,;i.KTi \G of the NEW 

•:h V sqnf^fy, wiii be held 

i ou Friday ihe £>;?ih. day of 
January, ins?., at 10 o'clock in the lorenoan. 

Meetings wiii ai»o be held in the afternoon and evcr.- 
insr. -! 

A committee is appointed in that vicinity to secure a 
Iioush for 'he ac^omijsoifaiion of the society of which due 
notice will be given in Trenton to those who attend, on 
their arrival. 

Eminent advocates of Liberty from Philidelpdia and 
other places are c£pecteid to be at the meeting. 
Jan. 7th 1847. 

A. H. Freeman Sec. 



THE NATIONAL ERA. 



IT lb NONE OF YOUR. BUSINESS. 

When any of the true iVi; nds*of truth and justice un« 
:• rtalce to ri form any popular abuse, or resist any r»- 
••onchments u-y-u human happiness, they an sure to ho 
met with .the above jdeclavatiim, ''it is noee of yovj-fci.si* 
•less." This I as always been the case. Indeed it 
i.eems to be the settled belief of selfish, arbitrary and de- 
signing men, that it is their privilege to ride over every 
principle of r ght unmolested, whenever their impt'Csts, 
prejudices or passions prompt lb mto to do it, and al- 
ways meet those w ho oppose them, with the cry, "it is 
our business, you have no right to meddle." 
if any ose undertakes to oppose the progress of drunk- 
ard-making and the incalculable train of crime and mis- 
sy w hich foilow as ihe unvarying results of rum dritik- 
; ng; and the rum -seller tells him, "it is none of yotr bu- 
siness," though he is covering the earth v\ itli ig> o,..iKe 
' pauperism and crime; producing untold misery, disease 
death and even damuation itself among the iriLabituiiis 
of the e.;rth. 



Talk about the injustice of slave-holding, ami all its 
This is the title of a new Liberty paper to be started at concomitant evils; its auction sales; its separation of iVm- 



Progress.— In Ohio, the Whigs- have lost since 1844. 
31,277 votes. The democrats, 32,345; the Lib.-rt\ 
party has gained 2 ; 237. Thefliberty party is the only 
rising cause, though the whigs may carry Sute afbr 
State by the default of the democrats. 

Wo are. totally opposed to tho mixture of religion 
With politics.— JSeniwls Jfr/aM. 

Mr. Benirctand most «f our JJ. LTd agree exactly in 
hit pirticu lar. — E l. 



Washington, by Dr. Baily of Cincini oti as editor assis- 
ted bv John G. Whittier and Amos A. Phelps. Dr. 
Baily has left his j.ost at Cincinnati and we suppose is 
now al his new post in Washington. L. P. Noble is 
publishing agent. They ate all genuine Anti Slavery 



ilies; its univ. rsal cot>cubinaire; and all lis unt id : nd 
untellable cruellies; and the slaveholders v> ill tell yc u 
''it is none of your business," and "if you come among 
us we wi'l.hang you, in spite of al! the governments on 
earth, including the federal government," and w 111 sh.oot 



men. The subscription price is two dollars per annum- j tluwn the sia'-es that betray env genuine as; iraiions for 
It is to be of large size, printed on good puper & issu' d ] f iepc ) on , 

The Priest of tho dark -ages would put the imiocnt 



ashtngton ana 



w eekly. The Press has gone on to_ 
the first number may now be out. 
1 he Slaveholders are in a great panic aboutjt, an are 
calling for mob aid to put it dow n. A good !arg.> sub- 
scription list will do much to convince the f diy of such 
measures it will certainly gr<>atlv encourage th -se con- 
fer ed in the publication I^et every man having the 
nems to spare, patronize this Paper. 

Subscriptions for this paper will be received 
this utliee. 



at 



THE WAR. 

The wicked invasion of Mexico is progressing si ill 
arid we b< lievc al ho es* men should unite their effort? 
^o bring il to a'ei -initiation. Th-- Am. p.-ace Society has 
-ent an appeal to the friends of i» 'ace in the nation 'o 
unite iu such '-•fibrts. Ouc thing rpcoxrimc njjed is to 
send in P- iitionsto Congress f>r a spc-dy di-continu- 
ance of -that war. The. oulv way for our governmeiu 
•o do this honorably is to immediately w ithdraw our 
troops from Mexican Territory. Let the petitions be 
aetit in; and let our Senators and'Repri sentatives know 
hat we expect of them. The immense cost and sac- 
ificc of human life it: (his malt'T is nothing when com- 
pared Wj'h the uusneakable wfekedness <if the who'e 
ransaction. The Peace society lias proposed the fol- 
ow ing form of a petition to be used for this purp' se. 

TO THE HONORABLE SRVATE AND 
HOUSE OF REPBfflSSNTATIVES OF TIIIO 
UNITED STATES. The undersigned, inhabitants 

of in the State of , respectfilv petition your 

M norable bodies to use nil your constitutional powers 
f r terminating as soon a 1 - possible the present war with 
Mexico, without any further effusion of blood 



Consists irey. — Whil^ Mr. Wwbster was exerting Ids 
magnificent pow l is m Philadelphia to p ove Mr Polk 
i trailer for makina w-ar upon Mexico, his son was en- 
ds' ing "able bodied men" in Boston 'o march with him 
.o fight Mr. Polk's b ittles, in obedience to his father's 
advice.— Pa T'reewmi. 



Gktting his Pay. — Rev. Mr Slicer, Methodist 
' ipiseopal Minister of Baltimore, has b en eWted Chap- 
lain to the V. S. Senate. This is the same Mr. Sheer 
who preach d a sermon to the Baltimore volunteers 
<omo time last summer, exorung lh' j m to serve ileir 
God laiihf llyJjy an unr< served d vo.ion of their strength 

D 

10 the slaughter of the M^xL-aasJ Lib. Press. 



victims of their spite upon the rack, and extort confes- 
sions of heresv from them in their intense agonies ; and 
then pile ihe burning faggots around them because they 
did Confessj.nnd in all their blood guiltiness tell the pi o, 
pie "it was none of tb ir "busines •" and si'ence their 
murmerings by threats of similar treatment. 

The priests of the present day, with a few noble ex- 
ception, will put a man's soul upon the rack, torture 
hismind, and practice every act of injustice the civil law 
will a'low towards those w ho have the temerity fto de- 
viate fr-'m popular Orthodoxy, and then answer the re- 
monstrances of others with "its Hollo of your business." 
'\v litvea right to doour own business." 

The priest of the dark aiios exercised all the power he 
had; h.e of the present day does the same. They both 
cri (1 out to the innoce-nt victims of their malicious rage 
and their sympathising friends, "it is none of your busi- 
ness. " ",%W- Vr ■ 

Now we pronounce, it false; il is our busiue-^ it is 
our business t meddle w it li every thing that concerns 
humanity. He who will remain silent when his fel'ow 
man is outraged, is doing violence to all the holy sensi- 
bilities of his nature. Manjs not so constituted, that 
he can look on with indifference when his n< lefh'ortr is 
injured, and not be-injured himself; indeed he must lose 
>'ome of the noblest attributes of his manhood before he 
can 'solo k on. Can anyone look on and see his 
neighbor sink to n'se no more in the watery element, or 
pei itb in the flame.?, without an- ffert to save him, and 
feel after it that no violence is done to bis own sou 1 ? 
No he cannot; neither can be witness any sor 1 of injus- 
tice done to the meanest of his race in. silence, without 
being guilty before God and Man. 

!t is our business. The meanest nnd most insiffpfi- 
cant nv mber of the great brotherhood of man has claim* 
upon us, a"d weaie bound to extend to him our s' in? 

F*l It"' - *!. W »">|e O - >/> M*<MffH»V<Wt 

pathies and support when unjustly assailed, cither iuh is 
person, bis peace of mind or his reputation. 

The cry, "it is D<>Be of yonr business," Pas in all a- 
ges been used by wicked men f o hinder the efforts of 
the gool to ber-pfit the human race. It is of the dev- 
il, and should be hnr'ed back whence it came. 

Only let nrm feel, (as all noble son'ed men w ill feel,) 
that an injury done to one man, is an injurv dee- to the 
w hole community , & he will not he frijrhtened from du- 
ty by the stereotyped ct, "it is no. e of your business" 



SLAVERY AN D THK EI'lSCOPAL CHURCH. 
W r c learn by the New York correspondent of iho 
jXalional Intel/ijvnccr tiiai ihe subject ot slavery iff 



mW'ning to agitate the Episcopal Cbnrch. On the 
gmh ins'C a motion vras made in the Episcop»il Con- 



( 



loied 6 n« regi 
ifs motion lav U 



k, to admit 

tidii. 7t wn< 
the tabic 



St. Philip'? 
immedia ten 
and the vote 



fww''^ f>- 1 nves. 98 noes. 

Laito;'^ 70 " • 

The Clcigy voting one way, and the Laity the other 

the motionfto I .y on the tabic was ln*t, and the sub 
r ject was tHfen. referred to a Committee. Tlie corres 

po ui.neut of t.-.-e Intelligencer adds — 
5 "If this church should be admitted, it will open and 

brin- up for discussion the whole question of slavery; not 

perhaps at.his Convention, but at some future session; 

and k is greatly to b, apprehended -will d,str S c ana d - 

vide the church, a- it has every church where the sub- 
Let has been debated with any of that fanatical zeal 

which has taken ^session of the AboUtionists. As an 
' E iscopalian, 1 deplore the event; and, I regret to add, 
this ■rwm'-ni may b- consider d as the apple of dis- 

cord, for which the opponent,; of the proposed measdx te 
Lould prepare themselves, as it wiH, .the proportion 
|fe adoptedf 'undoubtedly lead > a divweu ct tne 

church." 



lie world long enough to satisfy Sensible meti 'of their 
Incompetency. It is high time they s'oocl back ind 
give move honest and sensible m"ii an opportunity to 
*.rv their hands. , 



BLACK-EYED JOE. 



Two or three years a#o, I went in'o a town in the 
State of New Hampshire, to give a 1- Hjp* ranee lecture 
There Were many person* in the villag. ho dra ! k in- 
toxicating liquors. Uut n any catno to hear me, and I 
noticed, just as I commerced speaking, a little bligh 
eyed boy, just about \ our age v. ho came into the hall 
and sat down near the door. He listened very attentive 
ly; and when I spoke of the cruel treatment of wives 
and children from intemperate men I saw him more 
than once take his handkerchief & wipe awav the tears- 
i told them the pledge would prevent all '.his a d make 
men kind and pleasa t; aad I t- .id the children to 
sign it if they wouid prosper and be .happy m the world. 
This little fellow was almost the first to put his name 
W soto admit a colored-congregation intothe Epis- dQ?n; and when 1 asked who he was, they told me he 
* , r'hnrch will lead to its' division/ If so, Gou ' ca |[ e{ } B.-ck-eycd Joe, and that his father was one 
eranl that it may be divided.' Men w/io would split an of the worgt drunkards in town, 
ecclesiastical urganizati'ou because of the admission of a | 
colored church, are too mean to be in the.ehur 



From r-r gftiristian C;-h:en* « 
Uji'f'T? Taxation 

A Washington correspondroent of the Journal of 
Qommerce savs, "thai the debt of one or twe hut d-rd 
millions that, wi'l he the consequence of this Mexican 
« ar.wiH ei'her drivn us to direct taxaticn, or reader 
impossible the perrccn r nt amelioration -of the tariff sjs* - 
i m." We shall hold up both our hands fcr "direct 
^ taxation." I? that had been the ir.ocle of collectin^the 
| revenue, we should nevei have got into this abominable 
contest; and when that system shall bo adopted by the 
p'-ople they will be sure never to get into such another. 

Tell the lr.bor'Dg men of the country that in order to 
(.support Ihv. Government?* they must pay a few cents a 
poued more on th-ir sugar, or 'their molasses, or their 
tea and coffee, and a trifle more a yard for the cloth for 
their coats, or the silk for their wivas and daughters — 
though they will grow l a lit tie and cry hard times, thr<-y 
won't mind it mnch; hut submit to be plucked that way 
as gracefully as sv- ^ns. But make out their bills in du e 
i " m, lei I hem see the charg-s against them in the Gov- 
enrment ledger in ihis wise: 



1 of it— that is to say, they 



,h or oui 
to mean to be anywhere 
Lib. Standard. 



"T-nke.is "—Much has b en said about "Yankee 
tinker ""currency tinkers" and many oth-r soa of tink- 
ers OfUite a new order of tinker? has risen, which 
tha* 9 !d-fashi ned paper the New York Observ r, calls 
"TiN'KfWj iv morals axd phii.osopuy;" the prospective 
oM&ich it 'eploresas invitabb though it resu't in 
ruin of nianv souls." We wilt not return this 
Jiment," but simply submit whether it 



r< 
* l t 

U'tiakerinjf comp 1 .... 

L no^hTime that somebody else should try their 
hand at moral and religious tinkering. Ever since the 
Puritans le: m -d on Plymouth rock, that clique whicn 
the Observer so faithfully repres-mts has done up the 
Li, rt moral an.l religious tinkering for our nation- 
have firs* f niied'and then altered and moulded our Sn- 
I <iiotions from beaming to end. Yet according to their 
own showing, society, religi-.n'and morale growing 
Lo belter verv fast, lf-tlvjf bran new kettle mad-vvith 
f tho ptBfenieal tin of tlvirown selection and importation 



•aksalr 



' a dy and k-eps leaking worse and worse, threat- 
, " cMitivr>r«?ion of the whole 



It was his custom every mornig to mingle rum and 
sugar with water, and pass it round to every one of the 
children, who took a little as well as their father and 
mother He would drink again at eleven o'clock, at 
noon-tim.-, at four o'clock, and a 1 nipper, so that when 
evening came he would always be intoxicated, crue! and 
levengeful, sometimes he would beat his wife, and 
sonu times his children, or shut them out of doors in 
cold storms. It was this that made Joseph weep, when 
T told of cru Ity to children, and it was this that induced 
him to sign the pledge. 

He went home from I hi meeting and determined to 
keep his resolution . Th* next m-rnmsr, of usual tfe* 
fath r took out the brown jug, mixed the pitcher of poi- 
son, a&d handed it to Joseph first. He shook his head 
and declined takimr it. 

"Drink, Joe.'" said his father. 
"I do not wish any agai't, sir," rer-Ked Joseph. 
His father looked athiin fora moment, andfhm said 
roughly: 

"Did you go'to the Temperance meeting Joe?" 
"Yes, sir," he'Vepli^d. 
"Did you sign the pledge?" 
"Yes, sir." 



Mr. Constant Harddigger to Uncle Sam Dr. For 
his prop, civilexpen^e for the ye^r 

1846 $0,33 
" " of cash pd. to pensioners of 

the Mexican war 20 
tt u 0 f C ;. s h pd. for cannon, shot, 

and shells 1,50 
" " of cash pd. for muskets swords, 

and camp equipage 1,00 
" of cash pd. for army and navy 

stores 1>00 
" " of cash pd. "to officers, soldiers, 

mariners, and sailors 50 
" " of cash pd. onac'tof sun- 
drii s stolen 



50 



Total 



$5,53 



Will Mr. Constant Harddigger, or any other work- 
ing man, be very likely to be so foolish again as to vote 
for incisures and men that will get up a war that has 
no other effect than to injure his business, and tax him 
besides Five dollars and seventy cents towards support- 
in f it; more than ten times as much as his due propor- 
tion, for all the civil expenses of the government? — We 
think not. Then how shall we ever be able to get 



up 



another war? 



"What did vou do that for, .To^?" 
• „, as they sny thr- entire- subversion of the whole - <lCcCfin , 0j f at !,er," said Joseph, hesitatingly, "if ever 
W iminis^riaii code and practice— is it no high time j ^ a )V>an< T (1o not v - an t h ie as vou ere." 
this'tink-r master's otTice p^sedjnfn oth er hands? Wi: | 



gofi^d improvement; and all we askl «s a tw.^h 

Part, you IfeW* Observer, Pun ,nn, Reorder & Co 

hav,'enioved for more' than 2 centunes-and 

too in whi hVur national ch racter was Formed. he 

ToM C,. never again Wdiv^ s-nch another oportui- 

r.o try an experiment in morals as you have had.rust - 

cd in vour hands. And since acc .rding to your o -n 

lesion, J- have afer all utterly ^d tp'rfta^ 

ilulb etterihavenot;ev £ nn E LP vounj own-wIiv its 

hi,h time you resigned-not as now, grudgingly, fore- 

Lng^orts of religious calamines m ^ 

but cheerfully, witii a "There now, I've tn,d my best 

and can't, now try yours." 

The Observer is q nte right in saving that thus new 

doctrine "will be tried and adopted " Yet not it 
■th» Observer & Co. could help it; for it oppose all ad- 
Lce, and dings with might and main to the skirts of 
Letiquitv, practically repudiate all progression. Bin 
it ^-shorn and weak like other men, and must ^tand on 
its own merits" where Phrenology cheerf^ rests its 
Kserte. Truth will pukvail.-PWH^ Jour- 
nal. 

The Journal is light. Messrs Obsen-r and Co. have 
had the field long enough. They are unprofitable ser- 
vants, cumberersoftho ground, and hay, befooled 



■ His fnthor b'ushed, turned pal -.vood confused a mo- 
ment, and thenfopened the door and dashed both jug 



A Come-outfr. — Tn a letter froma friend, which was 
r.-H^ivo.' a few dnvs since • he says: -t/made a visit to 
T-. - nppolis last week, and had the pleasure of hearing 
Fe V . John Fankin preach in Dr. Beecher's church, toa- 
larJr" and Tespectabl" congrc?9t?on His discourse was 
a verv able one, and /!hink produced a very favourable 
! influence on the audience. He is a "come, outer,' and 



stands disconnected from any proslavery Church, and is 
now, as I understand, beating up for volunteers «tth a 
view to the fonnination < fan Anti-Slavery Prcsbvterian 
pChiircft. He is is d' ing a good work in Indiana. 
| Come outerism' from Pnl. v!o-n is God's order, and is 
fast becoming the order of the th\ ."— Liberty Alwanae 



and pifole r to pieces, spying: 

"You shall have a father that you won't he ashamed 

to be like." ■ l .. i/A 

From that hour h,. ; has never taken anything that ear. 

ieto-vltate; and is happv himself, and renders his family 
happy besides; and I will venture to say ' ibM Joseph 
will have an answer ready for any one who asks him 
"what good it will do to sign the pledger"; 

"Uncle Edward, you may put my name down," said 
Henry, "and I thank you for telling me that story." 

So saying he put on his skxtes, and went upon f Thompson, in referring to the imputation of infidelity 
ice, with a swift moth.n, to tell the story of Black eyed j w y imt j.; m b y his opponents, said that in every 

Joe to his companions. (Cold Water Army. struggle in which he had been engaged, he had always 

found his opponents imitate the tactics of the sports- 
men. Sportsmen, vhci! ihey wanted to draw the dogs 
off the scent, tied a red I.errivg to a strirg and drew it 
over the ground. H had always fcur.d in controver- 
sies plenty of red lu irir.gs, » d this el (frge of infidelity 
wast nothing bat a red herring. Let thou beware of 
:. d herrings." Indiana Frccnan. 



1?<FIDELITY AKD BED HERRINGS, 
fi: one of his recent Anti Slavery speeches, Mr. G. 



Srnokin* and chewing tob ceo by rendering wa*£U 
and siinole'liquors insipid to the taste, dispose y>ry 
nmch to the stronger stimulus of ardent spirits- 'J he ; 
p.ar.icc of smoking cigars has, in every pa. t of our . 
country, been more followed by a ecneraU.se ot ; 
brandy and water as a common drin/% more especially 
b that class of citizens icho have not been m the hab- 
it of drin! ing wine m malt liquors. Dr. Rush. 



$^«The license question 



U *obe submittea to the peo- 



The love which the poor manifest, to follow in the 
footsteps of the rid is ihs gnat cause ot the wealth -of 



pie ot Vermont on the first Tuesday in March next. 



the on- 



and the sufierings of the other. 



After ;>!!. there ia .•a.melpnci'.oiv iacougrjuiu in the eiti« 
p ! oytB2Bt of war ci.aplgiss. U l.ai is lite du.y of a 
m iiiister of the gospel? To inculcate L-metkness, uioder- 
_Stipiij pa'ie.'ce, forbearance, penrv, aLilnrioirt. ilo itt t-bis 
face ag t hist, seifi- httess, ambition, violence, pride, re- 
venge, thojjheddiug ef hi. >od — to teach implicit, and par- 
amount -obedience to the livws»fGuiJ in nil cases. i?u.. 
if he perform bis duty iui.i.u.iiy, what . Iccoiie s of the 
s>'ldier? Let rt man he a Christina, boaestand enligktt 
ened, aisdhc-a asea to be a soldier — be can not cuiseai 
to bo an iiistraaieiit in the hands af Government v> snco. • 
srab, mu'ila'.e, or hew ia prices, his brother man. Tin 
chaplain mast m dee- up his mi ad to withhold an e.~»en- 
tial pari of thi truth, <.>r jfra «e!i tie whole. rudi, and — 
be cashiered. He may p ead, however, iha; Ihd'cHitSj 
lask he has a.s-in d ij thi'.af attending o .he wants bPI 
the sick, the • wounded, the dying — administering loj 
them, their grtai^at need, the consolations of rel'gio! .1 



THE- NEW JERSEY 
e,~ o a;v 



184-7. 



Hearts ch ad to the claim.? of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot llourish on 
the ground whfife himiaiiit) withers, kcqp. * " 

NEW JERSEx". — The friends of -the anti-slavery 
caus-3 in New Jersey were disapeinled hi their anticipa- 
tion jtjfu good m t im/on the -2jih all. because a . plac 
eoul i uot be ob ahied it) Trenton to hold it in, and con- 
.liiequenhy no notice o| the meeting was given in 
4jat vicinity. The city Halt which is always open for 



most any sfirt irf eetmeahties was refused, noffchurch parts of he state the ensuing year. 



/on id {) 



i.i.s 13 a rare case. Ihe en : plain is a conmajuon oi ; , 

■ ' ; 

the ola -era. Ills' «qy.>c ted that be tacitly saaeiiou, sr 

. • 1 slaver 

n >i openly vindicate, any war in which the Governim ni'J _ • 

may chaae.: to embark; that -lie shall pray the "God ot j . 1 . 

t.i.tk':. 1 - !o erowntho arms of his country w 'idi v ;e*oi ) j * 

and, in his position, he in3:1 possess more moral coui- } 

age ti.au. belongs to ministers sfiijcraliy, iftte dare (t 

disappoint this expectation. '.T has thrown hiinseft' io 
' to a Iter. favo»c<-. and look jfbr a miracle u> sa» 
him From die flames. i.w i ti- • Goverotnt m f mvide'at 
abundant supply • fehttpiains for the war service;! 
t hem a! 14)6 fwt£a?Hy *Mte a*! f arWs — nrgm?. i- eieasfoi 
and out < f season, all the requirements 'of the Ohiisiia! 
■eligton — and army and navy wou'd soon CN-a.=e u. h 
As it is, re 'i /ion is p^rvcr:ed to th ; j sa jpeietuoftlte pyihdi ■ 
pies- and practice of war. I:$ ministers rt;eogaiie lb 
profeisioa of arms, a* one oa whieh they mas asklhi 
blessiags of God, and (fee camp as a not un&t [lace f i 
the iasiiiuiitions of the cliureh. Prayers :.nd psalm-siug 
ing, ia their es ima ion, are ia e*utire harmoay wtui i h«- 
battle shout, d*iih shot^ and horrid curses ofan enrftg 
eel soldi -ry. And yet, as Douglass Jcrn Id *-ays, "tlv 
VP ry idea ofan army, fresh rsekia/ from the ffarone o 
gracee issuing forth to slaughter a host of be©* her sain • 
or < vr ta of fel low sinners, seems scarcely admissible into 

any brain" that is not already taken care of in Hanwell 

or Bcdh.m." 



From the Ram* 3 Horn. 
COWARDICE L\ HIGH PLACES. 
Who can doubt that the existence af slavery in this 
country is corrupting the manners a d perverting th 
judgment of all tliose who come ia contact with H. 
Hear what the Governor of Yhgmia said ashori tiaw 
ago:— 

" I regard our free negro population as one of ou 
• greatest evils — and to g' j t rid of it, ai one of Our high * 
duties. Great as ma he the apparent difficulty oi ac- 
complishing this desirable measure, it would dwindle 
-into insignificance, mid' r a bold and decided treatment 

But all / now propose, is the passing of a iav. , pru- 
vidiag that each county, at par next annual elect) V 
siiail ha^ethe right to vote upon the qie-s;ion of remov- 
ing the free negroes, »»ithtn their respectrve limiis, bv 
yor d the Cominonwea th; that all coun . is-s 1 otmg af- 
firmatively, shall communicate "he tVct to the Encti- 
tive, wao shad he required to remove the free n; groen 
within such coun'ies after six or tw-iv month's notice, 
a d that such population shall not thereafter be j crmit- 
ed to reside then in. 

This is one of dm fruits of the recent retrocession of 
a portion of the Distr ct, by Congress. We under- 
stand that the 'movement has been fors ■ > en and feared bv 
some of the fro(! co!< e people of Viisiaio, 



#3- 151 Haptis-t lniuisu-rs in Maine have 
signed arid published a strong protest ;i- 
g;;itis{ Sht ve. y. 

ftS^The IVevr Hampshire Flection tffke^ 
phicein "arfli. J'hu Friends Liberty 
arc Vfideawalie there. 



o /.ain'jd&t < Court i|»u«« could uot h< opened 

pay, t»eea:is.i tile p-«.>p!<s did no; approve of au;i- 
-Ue ilka) >wat.> ihe ■vx-rld, that %h* C:»pit 4 of 
e of ii'tw Jers--y us so <iee\Ay i'ro-Slavery thai 
Mc tin;; of the biennis of j.bertv, .for tbo.promo- 
ii of ith "A ■ t-aan y. bo Md in it*f*r fh94r«al ofa snii- 
p.ace tp hoiil it in. 

With ail is el:uieh"s and oilejr peb- 

!»c pi tees id' me t :«;.-; vrfth al its pr te-s-d Christianily 
md talk ab»ut Kfeeriy. toe fun i.ini -n!»i lows of the iivin;; 
j'id a d ',iV is nu'i n, are < xukiagly trampled u der 
b '■ A t"e.v very appjropiate comments on this subject 
ill be fonad in tir.otlic-? eoIumn.fc-<m ths exce'en Tem- 
rieieiioe P ipeSS printed h) Trent<.-n. In the midst of 
he prevail in ' , dark spirit of D"spolt«m, it fs c eerin^ 
;. meet a ith aoeh'exptrwHtms, as they sho-v thai 
tnVre is some life r maiuin^ whieh may yetkhidlettp 
irenova e the whole m.iss. NiAtWideheing given fotlie 
inti-Stavery m. eting in Tr6nt"1i and its vicinit , 
few ind : vidinls only w> re present from the mor 
ii tan parts of the St te, and organized m a privat- 
•tore ronn kind! offered to them; a ad switBtltm ba^s of 
^'ffee. bales of goods, boxe< &c. , a little business wa 
•ran«-cted a d the tnectit g adjourned. But Tronto 
l\cr all is a prell* fair sp cine n -.f whit the rest of the 
A ate is The L ;, gis ituyp, comjiose i of men turn al 
parts of the St ti , a la ge maj-eitv of whom are Whig 
ho ca ; l thcm*4tves ibe •ady tme Anii-Slaver> f> rtj 
us -.oct ilo to our ctt«o .is any men to be found. 
Gut let us «ave patlpiteo strive on, a»d wait lor th 
good time co in " 



STATE A«Nl'l oLAVEiiV bUCiLTY. 

T e annual mcetiiig of this Society «as held on the 
2j. J a-, nary. 1B47, at '2 o 'clock, in a mo a ova- tUo ' 
S.'-re of ;»E«s.srs riumly and Idell in Tit 

The meeting v. as called io order by Aaexaxocr 
Black one <»f ihe vice Biesklcnts, and J. Uioucs V. as j 
appointed fcecretaiy .pro. tem k 

The Commit ee apppo nted to take charge of t!>e 
slave cases in the court of Errors reported Ibat they 
would probabjy come on at tlie next session ki too 
Coart, and witu encouraging, expectation oi a favorahlfl 
issue.' 

T. V. Johnson, C. F« Clark, and Aicxaieei Black 

were add- d <o the committee having this ease in cf aige. 
which now consits ot i>. ii. fiun.iy, Enoch MiduieioH 
kJonthau Parkiiurst with the luxe first names. 

It was resolved to hold co .vent.uns in different 



The following iudivi .uais w< re eiectied officers fof 

the coming yea; . 

jona.lun Parkhurst, Pixv.dttU 
Edwaul V\ ced, Jola: D. Mi'Is, Clturh s E. Clark 
and Alexander B a-ek, piec Presidents. 

John Grinus Coi-resjiondm-j Secretary 
Alexander 14. Freeman, Kucordluj Secretary 
George W. Eaten Tra;* rer. 

Uxca.tfoe Comvirttte 
John Grimes, George W. E.sten, William Kingslaiid, 
S. A. Condd, James S. IVarrA, Cicoi^e' Atkniaeii) 
Richard Witkius, -<ia^#r .j 

Tiio luhov. ing Resolution was ua .tnnv<asly aJopt- 

: r°"f4?f* 'iit<pJiiitJ^wit& 1 ^ '' rU" 4 

Resi;}veV That we haii the successful esUibhshntei't 

of the NATIONAL ERA, an ami slavu^ paper m 
the District of Colo nii)i a, couuueted by men hmg pub- 
lic y know as bhorough-£oii>g«buU ioni»i« r ia evidence 
of groat and gloui ous progross in this c ause ,antl believe 
that a few more years of discussion will fesu t in the ac- 
complishment of the itrcut objects we have hadlu view; 
the red uitioii of the slave from his degr.ued comli- 
:i n as a beast of burden, to the i.ignity oi a mi/a, a be- 
ing stamped wi.a the mug; of oar commoa Creator. 

The Society theft adjourned. 



NATIONAL Eit A. — This paper is now issued reg- 
al -rya. v'fa .u.n ton every week. It is a large sheet, 
well executed on good paper and is well worthy pfeX- 
ensive patronag , which it "in no Uoubi receive. It is 
uiider the manag 'in tit of gcuume aoohuouists who' a e 
able to make it what it should be. They have made 
id excellent begiping aat} are the right sort of men Io 
run a loag race. 

The subscription price is two dollar-- a year in ad- 
. (oo. To" who wish to subscribe can address, L 
■ '. I>oble VVa-hiagt«u City. 

LIBER ■ Y ADVOCATE./— This is a new Liberty 
paper jusl stai ed io Providence & VVoousockct, Rhode 
Island, tl is an' jtcelfenl pap r and is published every 
.. >k at one dollat and til' y cen s a year. Good men 
\,iii ttlwa s rejoice to see papers of this sort, entering 
-h." (i id. 1 rue to Liberty and every good cause, it 
cannot Jjrijl to d.> good. 

HAM IHRON. Ths is the title of a new Anti 

Slavery p«per just stated in the City of N*w York for 
Ii • b "i of it • f- " eo o ed pe pie of the state. It is 
i)',H.,.';ed by coior d men nnd is calculated to do much 
■•'">od. "The paper we hav^ recived has been misla/d 
and we do not remember the names of the Edit' is. 



#5>BonNTON FiiGB«Dis<.Tss;oN SoeiETV . — The ques- 
tion t»! Discussion nexl Tuesd y evening, 23 inst., is, 
Do '.h tru« ia:.'r.'sis of any Country lvqiiko a dut\ 

on imported goods* 



For the Freeman. 

Mr. Editor. 

Of all kh» i-ft comprehensive and conveni- 

nt terms, none can be out done by the nondescript ap-J 
pcllation, ''Humbug. 1 ' Ou have 1 sat by, bs:> uing w.th 
pleaeure to the ellorts of men ot' erudition and set- nee to 
aceoaut for some new fact in Philosophy or re. .tut dis-* 
co very ia scieiu e, when all aionee the whole question 

►as disposed oT by the <. xelamation of soinu nescient 
by-stahefer, 'ii is alia Humbug." J£.i . 

How oft dees tlie w ould be Philosopher and^t illage 
oracle aovi r his rem at, when conn id by s\ hugintic con- 
clusio ss, by exclaiming, "it is all Humbug." 

Who has ever defined the term? Who has no.t been 
amused at the various attempts to define it? The most 
recent is as good as any, namely, that of the Irishman at 
tin; battle ol Mouteiy when a whiszing cannonba'l to'ok 
oil' his comrade'- la nd, -'Sure Jim," taid he/'and Was i» 
not a Humbug did tha ." 

For cov ring ignorance and staving off examination, 
no term has been more convenient or tgota freipieutl 

niployed. Let a Fu ton suggest the novel idea of 
steam navigation, and th. cry is "Humbug". If a Dag- 
uerre intima es the possibility of fixing a shadow; . r a 
Morse sugg «n the possibility of suiuibaiieous inio n a- 

ion being given ir. all places between Maine & Mexico, 
how ready are the ■ dueatcd us well as the ignorant, to 
ioin in the c y "Humbug." It a Claikson or a Wilier- 
Wee speak of the possibility of the aboli ion of Slavery 
by a British Parliament, and pseudo-philanti.iopy cries 
out,"what a moiisnous Humbug." But all these "Bugs" 
.-.have been hatchf-d T and lta^e imkvdmade liie busy 
world hum with their consequence!. 

Let non" then be drawn ln mcar<ful cXJUmfratien or 
patient waiting for further d- velopmeiits- of truth Ujlpn 
ihe snbjects of the materiality of S -ul, M.-smerism, or 
Phrenology, or any other new thing or idea, by ihe out- 
cries of the big .t or the ign«>Tnnus, 'hat thiV are all 



"Humbugs. 



W. M.G. 



■ 



F om'thc Mahie'Liberty Standard. , th'-;r p if. . in that case if (hey do, thy are 
A TIT BIT -FOR "DEMOCRAT*.*' LpfHdii-gUioi.cy useless/y m su .luiniiig Ijje Whig, on 

I'Uer from ' l' uL - 1ll o i * i 0 4,10113 * a '° ,u ii:,ci thought (nan are coa- 
t-.iiiL'd in all the other iioslou papers -Put logeth- 
eg. 



jmaiend to our readers the follow in; 
Jhiis»h.uary v\ i.o is en; 



-a i 

labor foKthc Canada fugitives. For our own part we 
see uu reason to doubt tne truth 01 me poor tugxtive's 
story: li is in entire accordance w ilh siavi botuiug Cjharsc- 
ter, and, if known to be true, w ould no. injure die lair 
fame of our '"Democratic" President with ins equuiiy 
democratiec neighbors. The working men 01 die North 
■ can see in this incident the kind of democracy w hich has 
' been palmed upon them by tiieir corrupt party . 'i he 
wording. -ian who will, kuowingiy, vote for such a man 
or for a party to which such a man can belong, much 
less of which he c m bo the head, had better emigrate to 
Russia. Nicholas himself is much more <d a 'tDetflO- 
ertft" han James K. i'oik, and better deserves the ap- 
p.ause and support of the ha dy sons oi toil. Yet Folk 



But we appeal to the enligblfcuec) judgement of the 
Ci ndoeiors' oi ihe Whig it such is not uuw the p anion 
01 the Whig party, that its nomina 1011 ol even U10 best 
known abolitionist adhciing u; it, \vou;u \n>i be a pretty 
conclusive evidence that he was a- man w ould compro- 
mise pmeiple on the subject of slavery. Fox our part 
after watching the move 1 eu-.-s, to: c a..d temper of the 
Whig leaders in t on. r> >s and c sew iere at this i 1 por- 
tant crisis, v. e site comkieiit that if a Whig convention 
were fo nominate Ex Gu\< nor Seward, or Charles 
Francis Adams for the Presidency it v. ould rath, r prove 
that the -individual so nominal- d hat! given the party a 
sccrcrpl dgt to compromise b.-s principles, than thai 



is we doubt no;, as mindful of the "riijtits of man," as 1 'he. parly had changed us. We should not dare to vote 



most slave holding democrats. 

lNARRATivE OF A DISTINGUISHED 
FUGITIVE. 

Amheks i burg, Canada, Sept. 2d. 

'Some Iks 'since, a young h/o-l, eXtrem ly dejected 
and worn out in a peatan-.;e, c iied at our bouse to so- 
licit aid, -a iid information relative to empl yment, and 
-the in arts for obtaininff a livelihood in Canada. 



Iff. was almost white, nor should we h ive recgnrzed j uUt ^ a ^pj • 



j for our most famd.hir friendso n rwi a ed. li is .per 
fectly absurd to su pose that c. party witch is ashamed 
of the little and. faint o position it has made to slavery's 
war, should in. end a.i> opposition to slavery itself. 

But nobody fcfx.ws better 1 han the Boston Whig that 
.he Whig parly will 11 >t ominate any man w ho iias ev- 
er publicly taken ground against slavery . '1 he idea oi 
nominating Seward, Utddiogg^ or Adams, or Palfry, 01 
C. Phillips, or ant man nice them, would he booted 



-his African descent, but for the slight curl wo observed 
in bis hair.. He was agreeable in pesen, and we found 
him unusually itite ligent. We assisted 4hm to some 
articles of clothing, advising him to seek employ men- 
where he might obtain hoard and attend school. li 
st :tod lhat his skull had been fractured by a wound be 
had received in bondage , -*nd so s rio-usl. injured as 
' probably totmfit him for close app'ication, and ho was 
Oil the whole quite distrustf.l of his ow n abilities to 
learn. We questioned him as to the manner and ho v. 
the wound had been indicted, lie stated that he had 
been in the hands of s 'vera! employers, engaged as a 
coachman, thai he was owned by James K. Polk, who 
inflict d the blow on his head. lie was then seventeen: 
year- of age; was building fire in the room where his 
master « as si ting; was carrying s<-me wood, when it 
fell accidenilly upon the 'ashes w ith such violence as to 
throw th trn u on his newly biacked'boo', whicn so en- 
•raj; Su hint that he flew into a passion and seized the po- 
ker, with which he gave him such a blow as to render 
himfoi a lime senseless. The wound «as so serious 
thm a physician was called to repair the injury which 
h. i.r.dea-vored to do by supplying the fracture with 
s .me sue he knew not w hat, but be thought it 

~W s a j..." ee 01 sliver. In an other fit of passion he 
throw h s sword at him, leaving an angular shaped 
Wound just below the knee, n hich we examined, of three 
inches in lengtV. And to aggravate the injury, this 

-jsa'm; J is. Iv P .lk, now President of the United States, 
his mother .ells him is his ven'abl father. Some time al- 
ter he w as soid to another master with whom he remain - 
ecT uri .il <h» period of bis escape from bondage. He is 

.Jiovv 21 years of age. There is a truthful ess & s hup i ci- 
ty ab >ut !.«.-. langu 15 • and a .pearancc which carries ir- 
EBsistiible conviction, amounting in our minds to amortil 



c jr. 



oi the truth o' hisslor. Sarah A Rice, 
Mtssipnary among the Fugitives. 



From the Cnronilype. 
THE NEXT PRESiDE.NT. 

Our neighbor the Whig had an elaborate lender ou 
on this topic the other lay, w hich we look d over with- 
out discovering for what man or sort of 
a man our really anti-shivery Whig friends are going. 
They put down their foot that their party iifust not make 
another compromise of pimcipF, fr in which we inijr 
that they think it i as heret fore done •fo, and especial'; - 
in nomtn-tiinr Clay. What cur. a:iii--i .very Whi • 
•fiiend- will do if i' <■ pai y 1 ocs 1:4; -in e -mprnirti- ■• 
prineipln tha Wmsj does hot inform us. 

We Cft'.iset b f.h'»v in jS"1 f? fofiotv 



Coaven ion. or rather ^creaclted 



a live rat would be frOm a coterie of woman. Then 
seems -to be humdng about tiie miads of s n.e of ou 
Whig friends the vague, unpractical, misty, moony idea 
that the party will call ou. some great man of the North 
who has thus fir been so busy wi'h law c.ses, check 
books, or some other great interest, that he has never o- 
pene.d his head against s>k-wy, bu. whose heart abhor* 
it, and who, on beingjdic d in the White Mouss, wt 
enter u^on a cou se requiri g inoro it rve, soul an-., 
energy loan the . tcming of -Monterey — to wit, that 0 
rescuiug the cotn try fi n. 'he $ttbtn'i n* of the slav. 
power, by putimg 1 fowii's aver iuseif. This is ail fog 
Wasiiingi: ns, Is apt) it. Otis, "men for eiiit rg.-nc ies, are no 
foun i tn obsourt cor ers and cobwobbv judgeship's) ati< 
called to lif -and- death dati g by votes of Conventions 
The men for cm rgeacies are xnale by emergencies. 
They wrestle whhserp nts intl.eir ciadles. Greater and 
groa-cr emergences have they met al the way up. 
He who killed Coiiah had killed a ar. Washington 
when he was mad - a gener dissimo, was a voting man 
w ho had not dona much, but what he had done, he had 
done wonderfully well. The old Geneia s and the 
old men of the land, thought this appointment 
rather redicul ms. — Pu- die Revolution was set on 
fool, you will see ify.ulook sharp, by rather youngish 
men. 

Now we undertake to maintain, if there is in the 
United States a man fit to be r.omina ed as an anti-slave- 
ry, or anti-slavery-pow er, if you please, President, hi 
is a man who has already tried his hand against tha 
power, lie is a inatk-'d man. he is vol a ma 1 thai has 
quietly -fed from th:- hand of the slave power up till now. 

He ie, perhaps, a man who has d rtd in Congress to 
raise bis voice agaimt the slave power, ami been flouted 
from his party, an 1 who without quailing has taken up 

he ga Millet f.r a direct and independam i?ght \vi h slave- 
ry, and has won the first balt'e, sending a parox- 

: en of dowonright aclie throuL' 1 the slavocracy, in 
both parties. It mak-s no difference 

what parly he comes from". The voter who cares u 
piu for old |)arties in tHis war has not the first particle of 
preparation fit it- Tiie man who lias dra \ n ihe sv ord 

h own a.vsiy the scabbard and already dealt the heavi- 
est and manliest blows, : s THE M VJX. 



-From the WiishixiKtch Patiiot. 

iilOENSE ELLGTiON. 

The ci-t:2 -ns of -Pittsburg') held , their elee'.h.n for 
constable, &e.,on Tuesday las^tthe 5th. iiis.au'., atei »' 
ihe stuiie time voted on the License 'question — it being 
u' der-tood that ihe Court would be "aided by the vote 
f the people, not vvithsiiauding the defect in the iaw. 



Tlie, vole is as follow.-;: 




Wcu 


1 


F01 JAr.ense. 


Afsi L 


1st. - 




{ >< m 


237 


2d. 


< t 


f 49 


224 


3d. 


u 


■220 


301 


4th. 


(( 


111 


*266 


5;h. 


« 


-177 


->33 


Gth. 




40 


ssy 


?kk. 


(( 


10 




8 h. 


(X 


: 3() 


117 


9ih. 


K 


37 


M.'l 






665 


'2'}7'.' 











Majority for Temperance, liii-'i 
It will be seeh 'that every ward m ihe. 
jfilv against License. 



tes a to? 



to 



COST OF LKUJOR 

It i.-; estimated the' cost of intoxicating drin 
wopl- of the United Stales is one hu ttared and ei h i.t 
Millions ..f Dolial-u, annualy. 

France, two hundred a id thirty-four Ivliiiiofr;. 

Gr at Brit tain one Hundred and seven'v-siv Million 
or all liquors besid- s Beer of w hich is consumed about 
Sve hundred and ten Millens of gallons. 

It is so id that a single Brewery in London -covers o-r 
act es of ground and pays to the government $800,000 
\ friend iold us a few days since that in seme of these 
.ondon Breweries, are Beer vats that wcuid hold « 
-retiy good sized church, and that one of theisj oner 
btirstee and washed away a small dv.-eihru^ouec. 5*lu" 
number of drunkard* in Great Briiai'- is'essnuated at6C0- 
000 and'thc deaths by drinking to 60,000 annually. 

The cost to Sweden is sixt millions a year 

'1 o Prussia, for y miliions. 

Who can wonder why men are poor, v icious, io no- 
rant, miserable, wre cln d, diseased and dyh;g. 



The New Jersey State Temperance Society at its 
iate Annual Meeting held in Treiifon resolved fo petitiu'r. 
the Legislature to five the License question to the peo- 
ple. There is MrtMfsg like trymp\ it is imeortant that 
he peopl - kno > what members of the Legislature are 
no' advocates of temperance, so that they can tV.\y al 
home another year. 



&5» Th" Liberty Press .ives the nam; s 1 f '21 "rtm.- 
'lv where fined a fp* dav s iiucc i'-r/id 



ilea 



mies" ie 

h- sides the costs for a breach of the license law. 
The Temperance m^n of N. Y. are true to the catise 

will have to givt 



and ii they persevere the ". 
up. 



The people ef Ohio nre movcingon the Licenst! 
qursli-n, & 28 .,ut of 32 Towns n Rhode Island i.a\ t 
voted no license. 



H A 1 A E . 

1 a u - 



Th- L-':*-'-:i lure have pj .-, • 
f -rs ofpa:-;*t ni -d ciu -s to h*\ 
hux, <5ic., a label sn'tiia ft»rt% I 



Over forty perso is were recentl fiiJe'd $&»00 c-tt '• 
hi Rochester f- 1 a violatn 11 of thi License law. They ct 
e ursn hadg?icd Bili of eo.stt" pay. 

The stocfcWfcfors ofll?eFa!i ftlvvr /.'ni!= 



g tt.'X' Ven • 

- 10 each botJie, ' voiwl, lK-itrly 4(H) 
al ragWienis tsfjij^ alcoholic iiqiit, 
is .rv^iiurtt -tta ifi ,1 [<■'■• 

- « • tliC jfcviU.JOaU; 



•111. I 



i.i V 



• I l> 



viilt t! !;;m "f 
Bf^Cii over 



jp © et Kir . 



From the Liberty Pr >s. 
THERE MUST fiE SOMETHING WRONG. 

When earlh produces, free and fair 
Tire golden, waning corn, 

When fragrant fruits perfume the air, 
And fleecy flocks arc shorn, 

Whilst th usand move with aching head, 
And sing th • ceaseless song — 
"We starve, we die, Oh! five us Lv ad," 
There must be something wrong. 

When W allh is wrought as .season roll, 

From oft the fruitful sod, 
Wh n luxury from pole to pole, 

Reaps fruit of human toil; 
When frqni » thou-and, one alono 
i la plenty ro'ls along, 

r i be others only kuaw the b.one, 

There muse he something wrong. 

And when production newer ends, 

The earth isyeilding ever, 

A copious harvest oft begins, 

But distribution — never, 
When toilirig million* work to fill 

T >e weal Ivy coffers si rong, 
When bunds are crushed that -work and till, 

There must be something wrong. 

When roor men's tables waste away, 

To bat ronness and drought, 
Then there is something in he way, 

That's « ort'i the finding out, 
W ih surfeits one great table bends, 

Whilst numbers move nlon?. 
While scarce a crust their board extends, 

There must be something wrong. 

Then let the law give equal right, 

To wealthy and to poor, 
L -i freedom crush the arm of might, 

We ask for nothing more. 
Until this system is begun, 

The burdens of our song, 
Must be, and can be, only one — 

There must be something wrong. 



[From the Columbian Washingtoniau] 
MY HUSBAND WHO USES TOBACCO. 

lie sils in his chair from morning til 1 night, 

'Tis smoke, chew, smoke, 
He rises at dawn his pipe to light, 
Goer, puffing and chi wing with* a'l his might, 
Till the hour of sleep. 'Tis his delight 

To smoke, chew, smoke, 

Trie (jiiid gecy in when his pipe gnps out, 

'Tis chew, chew, chew, 
Now a cloud of smoke pours from his throat, 
Then, his mouth sends a constant stream afloat, 
SufEcent to carry a mill or a boat, 

'Tis chew, chew, chew, 

He si/s all d;iy in a smoke or o fog, 

' Tis pull", puff, puff, 
He growls at his wife, the cat and the dog, 
He covts with fi'th the carpet and rug, 
And his only answer when ] give him a jog, 
Is puli", puff, puff, 

Such a room, ['m sure was ne'er seen before, 

'Tis pipes, quids, pipes; . 
Quids ar scattered from door to door, 
W ith pipe sl< ma the mantl • covered over, 
Pig tail and fine cut Strewed over t e il or, 
Tis pip'v-s, (puds, pipes. 




Tie houses all o t, Hon e id to end. 

Is smoke, sin k'\ smoke, 
In whatever room my way I wend, 
/;* I tak? his old clothes to patch and mend, 
U igrateful pjrfu'n^s wi 'I ev t ascend 

Of smoke, smoke, smoke, 

A' h >tn • o r a ; )~oi 1, afar or n?ar, 

'Tis smoke, chew, smoke, 
His mouth h stuffed from ear to ear, 
Ofpuffiug the stump of a p pe so dear, 
Aud his days Will end, I verily u-or, 

Jn smoke, smoke, smoke, 

Youpg ladies beware, live single, indeed, 
E'v •. ou marry a mnn who uses ''the weed," 
Better that husband you ever should lack, O, 
Tnau inarrv a "husband who uses t--bacco»" 



PROSPECT US 

OF VOLUME IX. FOR 1847, 

OF the 

AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL 
JOUR \ T A L. 



O. S. FOWLER, Editor. 



To reform and perfect Man — to d 'uelope, bv culture 
the original Realities and capabilites of hi.-- nature — is a 
work the most arduous and exalted that can possibly 
en^a^e human intellect or effort. To d>> this effectual h 
however, his nature must be kscwx; and since pure- 
nology and physiology Imbody his entire consiitu 
tion, there is no wav by which we can so easily become 
acquainted with ourselves, or for w at occupation in 
life we are best qualified, a« by the aid of the-e scien- 
ees. To these subjecs and their various applications, 
will this Journal b< devoted. It will present, 
PHRENOLOGY. 

Each number will analize o*'p o' more of the Phren 
o'ogicai organs, both singly and >n: h»-:r various combi 
aatious, illustrated by «-ngiav'r.'_-.. sbowing their Iocs 
ti 'ii. Each number will uleo contain the Phi nologi 
ea ! development and character of some disUhsrOwbei 
individu il, accompanied, by their likenesses. This de 
iiiriin- 'it will irive just that pracical view of Phrenolo 
»y which is required in order to fully uiuL-rotand it? 
proper apo ic;ition. 

PHYSIOLOGY. 
To know and obey those laws of Ufa and hea'th, un 
added by these sciences, constitutes the main basis an< 
superstructure of talent, virtue, and happiness: Thit- 
department will also be illustrated by engravings. 
ANIMAL MAGNETISM 
Will receive its due attention and our read' s- 
will receive through this medium, all that is new, uj.l. 
esting, and important. 

WOMAN, 

Her character, influence sphere, and cousequent duties 
the government an- education of children, 2>c. — will ai- 
so be presented in /his Journal. 

Our fii Id is indeed the world, Physical, Intellectual, 
and .Moral. Human improvement and happiness we 
shall en 'eavor to promote. Thes , therefore, who air 
interrested in the advancement of our race, and would 
ameliorate their condition, may -to so perhaps more ef- 
teetuady by circulating this Journal, than by any other 
means; for it u ill imbody the principles of ail reform. 

This work will be issued monthly, containing thirty 
two or more pages, on good type and paper, at the ex- 
treme low 

i'RICE OF $1.00 PER YEAR, IX ADVANCE. 
Subscriptions should, in ad cases, be addressed, pos! 
paid, to FOWLERS & WELLS, 

Phrbnolooical Carinet, 131 Nassau St. New York. 



BOONTON WASHINGTON TEMPERANCE, 
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY meetsevery Monday eve- 
ning in' the Five Church, THOMAS RILEY Pres. 
STEPHEN GRIMES. Sec. 

The Liberty Almanac for 1847 — Is a pamphlet 
of 48 closely printed pages prepared with great c;^e by 
a master hand, and illustrated Ln s. vera engravings de- 
s gnedand executed expressly for this work In order 
to gi\ e the widest possible circulation to this va u'ibie 
Ann-Slavery document, the wholesale price has been 
i educed to the following rates: 

250 copies or upwards at $30 00 per 1,000. 

100 or 200 copies " 3 50 " 100. 
50 copies for$2 — 25 for $1, &c. 

All orders must enclose the Cash, and should desig- 
nate the conveyance by which they are to be forwarded 

Also, for sale, Rademacher's German 1 iberty A ma- 
nac for 1S47; with a large variety of Anti-Slavery bookfiji 
racts, engravings, $c. at the Depository of the Am. 
and For. Anti-Slavery Society, No. 5 Spruce-st. by 
WILLIAM RARftED. 

fe The "AME/P/CAN MISSION AH Y," 
is a new name given to the Union Mission- 
ary, which is published at No 5 Spruce 
Street N. Y., and is the organ of ie 

\merican Missionary »S'ocu-ty, organised in 
>ept last at a convention held in Alii. in v. 

Tiie Society refuses donations from Skive- 
holders. Lewis Tappan of i\ew York is 

s'rea surer. 

Jry-THE PRISONER'S FRIEND, »the title of a' 
weekly periodical devoted to the abolition of Capital 
Punishment and the Reformation of the Criminal, pub- 
lished at No. 40 Cornhill. Boston. Mass:, by Charles & 
lohn M. Spear. Terms, o>>e dollar in advance. 



{je> CHRISTIAN ii\ V ES'i'iGA 1 OR. — is the title 
of a small monthly paper by William Goodell at Hone- 
eye, Ontario County N. Y. at"50 cents per annum. It 
is aa excellent paper, and 1 Mr Goi dell is abundantly 

qualified to do justice to its name. 



{^-■SHOWER BATHS«#B 
A few shower Baths, ready for immediate use 
.'or sale low at this offiice. Persons knowing the' value 
of such articles are not willing to be without thrm. 



BLANK DEEDS for sale at this Oiiice 



LIBERTY Minstrel. — A few copies of Cork's Lib- 
rtv Minstrel for sale at the Office of the Freeman 
Every singing Abolitionist shot.ld have one of these 

books. 



THE LIBERTY ALMANAC 
far 1847, for sale at this office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for sale at this 
office anions which are the following. 
Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West Indies, 
Anti-Slnvery Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is, 
Life of Granville sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, % 
Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots & Alton Ttials, 
Channing on Slavery, fie. 






VOL. o. 



BOOjVTOIV APRIL 



1847 



NO. 



THE FREEMAN 

WILL HE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, Monis County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 
Single copy 23 cents per annum, orfcr 12 numbers 
10 copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Albany Patriot. 

GLIMPSES AT THE SOUTH. 

Albany, Feb. 10, 1847. 

Rkspected Friend Chaplin, — The following ex- 
tracts 1 have taken from a letter sent to me be by a per - 
sonal friend, who is aiso, I believe, a warm friend ot hu- 
manity. He is a brother minister, with whom, some 
years since, 1 labored, and one who, I know, has often 
sacrificed interest for principle. Such men I love and 
es . >:m them very highly for their work's sake." 

The writer, it will be seen, has been visiting a place 
which, from the scenes enacted there, one would sup- 
pose it next door to perdition. He has beheld some of 
the works: of darkness perpetrated by the actors in thai 
system of complicated villainy called slavery, or perhaps 
more appropriaily, "Satan's masterpiece." 

A portion of these extracts I have read to my peo- 
pie; many of ihem we ; it — some were surprised to hear 
of such dark deeds, and all I think were convinced that, 
th«ugh Judas "went and hanged himse'f," his ghost sti 1 
li. .s in the peson of an auctioneer, who seds Christ in 
selling h'.sreprese'itauves for money. — J. Miles. 

"The auction sale to which I refer took place at St. 
Louis, Missouri, to which place I went on business, a d 
as the rivers were soon closed by frost, I staid there 
jhfee months, and had an opportunity of seeing Ameri- 
can Slavery as it is. — As I noted down a few leading in- 
cidences of the scene, I can do no better than send you 
a transscript." 

''Yesterday I was a witness of one of the most revolting 
features of the 'sum.of all villainies. ' I saw men, wo- 
rn m and children irrespective of age, morals, kindred or 
complectiou, exposed for sale. A platform about 
eight feet high had been previously erected by politic- 
ians, for the use of their speakers, which was the stand 
for the auctioneer and the wreched victims of his pro- 
fession. 

"Weeks ago bills were posted in the public places of 
the city, stating tlvit between thirty j and forty slaves 
were to be sold on the first of January, consequently 
from ten o'clock til! noon people of all sorts could be 
Been coming together and forming themselves into groups 
about the Court House. 

"At twelve o'clock the sale commenced. When 1 
joined the crowd, a young girl stood on one of the seats 
of the platform before the eyes of the gazing multitude. 
Oh ! how my heart bled. 

"The auctioneer cried lustily, 'who bids, who bids?— 
two hundred and thirty — two hundred and fifty, fifty, 
fifty. Two hundred and fifty is no money for her — she 
is well wor.h six hundred; two hundred and seventy- 
flfce — three hundred.' Thus he proceeded until fie 
knocked heroiTfor six hundred and ten dollars. 

"The poor creature stood motionless as a statue, un- 
til the hammer fell for the last time She then threw 
herse'f on the seat in the rear as if in dispair — hid her 
face in har hajjferchief, and sobbed most bitterly. She 
w II knewintrt '.v ose hands she had fallen. One Pat- 
Uson, a notoriftu! slave dealer, had bought her, lie 
visits thi^niaHcet yearly, horn New Orleans; he is weli 



known among the slaves, and when they stand to be 
sold, they have <m instinctive dread of him. As soon 
as he buys them, th-y goto prison, and are there con- 
fined until his purchases are all made. 

"This youthfu. fema e waVapriarently about sixteen 
years of age, and were it not that ner hair curl' d a little, 
it would be difficult to decide whether sit- didfiot reallv 
belong to the Anglo-Saxon race, rather than the African, 
her skin being so fair. 

"The sale of one human being wasas much as I could 
endure at once. 1 turned away in disgust, and being 
more than ever convinced of the cvi' oi slavery, I resol- 
ved to be more than ever opposed to it. On my return 
to my temporary residence, my friends informed me that 
the girl just sold >\as a member of the Bethel, the name 
of the Church of the colored Metli. dis'.s here; that slv 
professed a few months ago to have experienced a 
change of heart, and is highly esteemed among her 
friends. 

"Here then is evidence that one of Christ's i epresen 
tatives has been so d for money, but what udds to the 
horror of this and the like transactions is, that persons 
professing the same lailh and claiming to belong to the 
same spiritual head, are engaged in this nefarious traf- 
fic, 1 heard it said that the auction- er is a Presbyl r 
.'n— that the Presiding Elder of this district of the M. 
E, Church owned five or six slaves, and a lady, a mem- 
ber of the same Church, assured me she knew for cer- 
tain that Bishop Soule was a slaveholder, as w ell as 
Bishop Andrews. These reverened (?) gentlemen 
on't trad? in slaves, of course; they simply carry out 
the golden rule. 

"To buy, own, or sell slaves, is in no degree di 
putable anions pofessing Christians here, and m re tha.i 
this the slives genera'ly consider them, of all task-mas 
ters the most cruel. 

"After a short interval I joined the crowd asrain, and 
my attention was attracted by an aged woman gleadino 
her case with much energy to a circle of about twentx 
persons. She said, 'My name is Roda. I am n v> 
fifty-six years old, the mother and grandmother oi 
children, and no person can show a stain o" my charac- 
ter; my old master promi-ed me my chil i should never 
be so d from me, and my master told me the same, and 
now my youngest boy is sold to the trader. Gentle- 
men, 1 have no education; if I had I might speak more 
genteelly, but mv feelings are the same as if I was white. 
I always served the white people fai'hfully, and am 
willing to 'O se' ve the white people still, if they would 
leave me my last chi'd.' 

"This and much more she said with such earnestness 
and deep feeding, that every one who h> ard tier seemed 
by their attention to assent to the fact that slv- was a 
much injured mother. — The c*se of this woman exc- 
ted the sympathy of her fellow slave-, for wh< n she lei, 
oil' speaking, one of them endeavored to set forth tl. 
many agravated circumstances of it, but he w.is eviden 
too much excited, as in a moment his s ,ul caught fire 
his passions yft re lashed into fury, and with all the ve 
hemence he was capable of he cried out, at the same 
time whirling one hand over hisheae, bringing it down 
and beating against the other — 'By and by, if nil the 
niggers were like me, not another would serve a whit- 
man if he had to (jo to hell for it.'' Thus maddened b 
wrongs he continued to imprecate the Vengeance o! 
heaven on those who robbed mothers of their children. 

"This is the spirit th >t makes families keep daggers 
an fire-arms ill their bed-rooms, and they may wed I " 
insurrections. A few rods from him was a mod e 
weeping with her wcepi g daughter. 1 wi u.. n- ai o 



a.:d emphasis with which this was spoken were sue:; 
none but a mother with broken hear: and gushing ten:.: 
can imi.ate. 

"During my stay I visited and conversed with sever- 
al slave famines, and thus learned more of the prac'i 
cal workings of slavery than I otherwise should hnvc 
done. The slaves generally appear happy and conic n 
ed when they have their own homes, but they f.re n< | 
so in .ea!i!y, for they live in perpetual fear of evil. You 
may inquire, how can they have homes of their own? 
Strictly speaking, they cannot, for ah they posw ss, hp 
well as their own selves,, is subject to the prcf. ssi-ci 
owner, and their nominal homes are often broken up 
through mere caprice. However, in a Sense, r.i.u e oi 
them have their homes, and ore allowed to hire thejr 
time'. We will suppose a man, his wife r.nd child — 
these are allowed to take care of themselves, if the mau 
and wif pay ten dollars per month «-a«-h to th'eir owner ; 
: hey then seek their own wor- , and after toiling h id 
and payii.g twent . dollars per month for the privilege, 
they may cam as much more as they can tofe d, clothe 
and warm themselves and little una till it is a ceriaiii 
age, v.hen the slaveholder will hire it out to bring in 
more mnney. This isthe way some of them ootain 
mimes; first fh'ey .'take care of their lazy owners, and 
■ litn of themselves. 

One case I m ist mention, to s'iow you now c ireful! ? 
those thieves look after the dollars. — A slave name Par- 
ker barg iried for his wife with herb-vher, and she svas 
obe free on a certain day, at a certain price. The poor 
if-llow worked hard, and fiddled the contract, but hie 
'.'ife, one day before her timeof slavery expired v, a: 
Slu " was delivered of a chi'd, and who do you think had the 
best clhim to it' However, decide as you may, the tact 
is this: the slaveholder dem m one hundred dollars fo; 
the child, and the father paid it - This I hal from the 
father himself and *t was corroborated bv oth is." 



Rend the following which we corn' fro: 
the Washington Patriot and ponder wt'ii. 

WHAT HAS THE NORTH TO DO WITH 
SLAVERY? 



them, and while 1 listened, was moved to t ars Th 
mother was condoling, aud trying to assuage, the griet 
of her child: My child, my child, don't cry my child 
God will take care of us, my child.' The peculiar tone 



This question, so often asked and so often answered 
finds a response in the aim- >;ed article from Buiritfs 
Christion Citizen which wc should think. ought to satisfy 
all inquirers. T;e title to those human beings of both 
sexes and of al! ages, w as derived from ua officer of the 
United States, acting under a law, of the Union, fo r 
which each voter in the free States is as much respon- 
sible as any slaveholder. Who can ' e 11 into what or 
how many directions these thirt\ men and weman, g.. s 
rind boys, are to be dispersed — how many famalies to be 
separated forever — how many of the dearest of earthly 
ties to be cruelly sundered, to Be re-united only by 
death? 

The last No. of the Concordia (La.) Intelligencer, 
besides .he advertisements for fifty runav ay slaves, con- 
• ains the fo lowing notic of a 

I j.s 1TED STATES MARSHALS SALE. 
David U. Brown, "] In the Circuit Court of the 

vs. f U. Slates for the District 

writ of seizure and sale W. [ of Louisiana, No. 1849 
P. Smith. J 

By virtue of a writ of seizure and of sale, to be direc- 
ted in the entitled suit, 1 have seized and ivill expose at 
puhlic sale at 'he residence Walton P. Smith, known ;.s 
the Bodigowan P autation formerly know n b the name 
f the Pecan Plantation, on the Mississippi ri er, abo. ; 
six mil s be ow Vidalia, in the Parish of Concoruia, ■ n 
^Saturday, 21st dav of November, 1S-16, al the hour of 12 
o clock'P. M. al the right title and interest of Walton P 
Sftiith — in and to to the following described property, to 
wit : 



JOOj aged 


50 


vrs. 


"'•'J > "b'" 


14 \ rs. 


31 ar^uret* 




«t 


A 1 1 '. 1 , 


JU 


I.vdia, 


19 


u 


Isaac, 


50 " 


Frrffifc. 


15 


a 


Harriet, 


19 " 


rsai,h, 


7 


a 


Hannah. 


CO " 


Edward, 


2.3 


L', 


Mai mkj 


50 " 


Fanny, 


25 


it 


Ben, 


14 " 


Jane, 


no 


it 


Ge rj;e, 


6 " 


Susan, 


15 


a 


Bill, 


is « 


Hal!, 


35 


n 


Rachael, 


45 " 


Lucy, 


80 


a 


Martha, 


16 " 


Ambrose, 


22 


it 


Jose, 


25 « 


Linton, 


12 


<( 


Susan, 


20 " 


Roseftet, 


15 


« 


Martha, 


12 " 




10 


t. 


Hcnrv, 


M " 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOONTu.-i Ai'KiL 8, 1847 



Oct 



Terms Cash. 
F r WM. p. VVAGNOR, 
U- S. Marshall. 
J. H. RINEHART. 
Deputy U. S. Marshall. 
17, la^C 12 5t. 



7f wu know any thing of the nature of the United 
States Marshall's' sale, the price of the blood bones and 
Allows the thirty beings ennurm-rated above from old 
1 v i.o lit • e George, will be conveyed, not by a law 
"f the Slate of Louisiana but by virtue of a United 
States law from Smith to Broun, ff the law under 
which this damning deed is to jbe done, is a United 
S::iLei law, then it- involves a question in which the free 
f'ta'cs have something to do, and on which the most 
»t«Mious advocate of State rights cannot complain of our 
interference. If the South must be permitted to traffic 
in huma i b ings, Id! it be done on their own responsi'oil 
) y, l t not the free Slates be connected with the sin and 
shame of fu-nishing the lictnsc. — Let such a United 
:?.a ; .es law bo repealed. — t. r>. 



A correspondent of the Pennsylvania 
I' V^CTta*. speaking of the Mexican war, 

say:;; 

We do not say half a enough, I am persuaded, inr'- 
tatinn to .'the tearful responsibility i f the clergy for the 
present u'rocious war. Christ, in whose nam i the\ 
P'«rffS3i to teach, is presented to us by the prophets a 
:ho Prince of Peace; and vet they are generally eithe: 
the advocates or the apologists of war. The church is 
f. i! ofgenerais, colonel.-, corporals and soldiers, w hoars 
trained 2q the work of human butcheiy under the sanc- 
tion, express or implied, of \\m religion of the country. 

'1 be church furnishes men to act in the capacity oi 
>: ajthnas, to blaspheme the name of God by invoking 
bl j . ;h u > >i a War of con-pest, designed to extend 
■he curse of slavery over regions now free from its 
■ i; dvin r influence. -Every shipload of volunteers leaves 
* tr- hUovda with 'the blessing of the church, admin 
i-<tercd Hi !he shape of Bibles presented under the sane 
i -ii hi religious :ccre.no:ii<*s adapted to produce the im 
p sj'ohs on their minds that in enlisting in this dis 
r LCeful and tnui-derous \eac they are serving not only 
4 : .i ir country, but their God. 



Nr.w Jr:re-r.v I iieeman. — We have received n racy 
hect hearing the above title, published at BoontoM.ii, 
■V J. 1l i.i ;s very good eolaborer in the cause of Liber 
'\ and moral reform. By the way we have one slight ob- 
ection to it, if the number before us is a fair sample. 
Feb 16] Its "head" is nut quite" up to the standard 
•'fa true "Freeman," according to the most modern 

.'.'"Ions about that title— it lacks an E of it.- 'Liberty 

Idvouale. 

Right, we stand corrected. Our "head" is now up 
tj !he true standard of a "Freimau" according to the 
most modem iiotons about tliat title. By the way, we 
have one slight objection to tiic "Advocate," not thai 
it hiiks niiytfoiWg., but that in designating the place we 
h'iJ from, i}. goe^ beyond our notions of propriety a 
«w hole W. 

AiguYncrit of Edward Livingston against Capital 
punkdinteot for sate at tins office; price 6rt 



Hearts deed to the claims of man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
the ground where humanity withers. Keep. 

THE WAR. We consider the war now exsisting 
between 'his country 7 ai.d Mexico as one of unmitigated 
wickedness on the part of this nation , one which for its 
injustice and meanness will scare* ly find a parallel in the 
world's history. 

"The Almighty has no attribute that can take sides with 
the Americans in this contest." The tide of victory 
seems to be turning in favor of the Americans and we 
find the American press almost without exception teem- 
ing with alarm and sympathy for our troops that were in 
slain in tho contest Now we shudder at the 
idea of men being shot down in war, or massacreed in 
any way but we must confess that we have not that keen 
sympathy for ihem that we w ould have if fhey were 
engaged in a righteous cause. Nearly all the troops 
there are volunteers; they are there from their own 
choice. While they might have staid by their o*n fire 
sides in the enjoyment of peace and security , they 
have volunteered to go and fight the unoffending Mex- 
icans for the sole porpose of extending the area of the 
-sum of al! villanies," human slavery. It is very mor- 
tifying to find so little of sincere, unqualified condemna- 
tion of this war in the news-papeis of the land. They 
are full of glory bestowed upon the officers and men for 
their achievments in Mexico. The political, moral and 
religious press of the bud are pouring out praises with- 
out stint upon t' e plunderers of Mexico, for their valor 
nr.d one would •hiuk thiyt they wen- engaged in- a noble 
business, even the N. Y. Tribune .wtha'i its horror for 
jlavery and war, sings its loud Anthems of praise for the 
men who are engaged in the on" for the extension and 
perpetuation of the other. Let our troops h ave Mexico 
*nd return to their hemes, and then we will have some 
hiiig to say in their pr dse, and not before. 

We heiieve that all good men should hold this war, 
md all engaged in it, up to universal scorn, this will be 
'he verdict of posterity; this would put an end the war, 
and teach all those no important lesson who think that 
uuc glory is to be found connected with humiin slrtugh- 
er. 

t 

THE HAMILTON STUDENT.— This id the title 
of a se'iii-ni'-iithly Paper published at He.milt'iii, Madi- 
son CoaiBfty, N. IT. George G. Ritchie Editor. 

It appears that Mr. Ritchie was a stu lent in the Mad- 
ison University, and h id staitteH this paper of w hich he 
was the pro irietor, wi h tho npp ob ition of the. Faculty 
<umc of whom contributed articles for publication, but 
soon concluded it would not do to let him publish what, 
he thuught best, and assumed the right to dictate to him 
hi those matters, by insjsong that certain articles which 
we cannot find any fault with should not be published m 
Ids paper. Mr. Ritchie not willing to to submit to such 
arbitrary dictation was expelled* from the University ? 
although he had paid nearly a year's tuition in advance. 

He takes his paper with him, and continues its pub- 
lication at Hamilton. While the faculty in order to 
screen themselves from Universal scorn, are practicing 
plenty, of that sort of quibbling which meii are common- 
ly guilty of when they have committed a very mean ac- 
tion. We see by the Liberty Press that the people 
sympathize so much with Mr. Ritchie that they have 
made him a donation visit. 

This paper is w ell filled with excellent matter and is 
published for one dollai a year. 

The publication of this number of the Freeman 
has been delated on account of sickness. 

(jC^. The friends of the abolition of Capital Punish - 
meut throughout the U. S. are to have a grea< Conven- 
tion in the City of N. Y. on the 10th ofMay. Many 
able speakers will be present. 



From the Pht en logical Journal. 

L::t tlh FitoM Rev. G. W Finne\, brother of the 
President of Oberlin c liege, to the editor. He is a 
clear-headed, sTrong- minded, aim uncommonly talented 
man, and neither Udieus nor limits by rule, 

"Could I see you, I could give you many facts that 

are laughable enough cf my collisions with opponents- 
Your writings have done, and are doing, much good. 
Ministers ought to understand this subject — for, 1 in- 
eiat upon it, a man cannot preach the gospel as he ought, 
without a correct knowledge of mental philosophy. I 
have recentlyhad an interview with a learned Professo 1 " 
of Intellectual Philosophy in one of our New England 
colleges. He seemed almost totally ignorant of the na- 
ture of the subject. I remarked to him that thescience, 
if true, was every thing to him in his department of 
teaching; that if true, no man could correctly teach 
menial science without a knowledge of it; and modest-" 
l> suggested, that the teachers of our colli ges ought to 
investigate it to the bottom, and if false, expose it and 
explode it — if true, they ought to adopt it, and insisted 
upon the point, that if true, all other foundations and 
theories of mi ntal science were mere hay, wood, and 
stubble; that thescience of mind was founded upon or- 
ganization, was as evident as that the law of gravitation 
was founded upon matter. He is truly a great man, 
and an ornament to society. He treated my remarks 
with candor, but said but little. There is one insur- 
mountable obstacle — "It is not popular" — is at the bot- 
tom of all this ignorance. Why, brother Fow ler, you 
are grievously in fhe wrong and teaching nonsense, or 
our colleges are greatly in fault in their system of teach- 
ing. Some are aware of this, and very consistei ly de- 
nying the truth of the seienre. This is the fact at 
Oberlin. 1 do wish you would go to Oberlin, and fight 
the battle, through with brother Mahan, and the profess- 
ors. I should delight to see you measure swords. It 
strikes me you would do great good by going to colle- 
ges, and grappling with the professors in presence of tbe 
students. Certainly it ought not to be taught at all, 
unless it will stand fire. There is hardly a question 
tuat can be started of more importance to mankind than 
a correct and sound system of mculalscience. On it de- 
pend the truth in metaphysics, and of course a correct 
theology; for the Bible is to be explained in consistency 
with a true account of man's organization, and mental 
phenomena. 

"In the name of G"d. then, (I speak ft reverentially,) 
und for the hope of a world that has groped its way in 
darkness, let us have truth. Let us explore the 
field of human responsibility in the light of his nature. 

My soul is pained when I hear sentiments advanced 
from the pulpit that cannot Mand a correct application 
of mental science! But we poor ministers are too con- 
servative to meddle with this unpopular science; it is 
not taught in our collegse, and of course we must not 
sret wiser than our teachers. 

Truly yom brother. * 
G. W. Finney. 



LIBERTY VOTE FOR 1046. 

From the Washington Patriot. 

We have compiled the following tabic of the Liber- 
ty vote cast m 1846, from the official statements : 
Maiue, 



New Hampshire, 
Vermont, 
Massachusetts, 
Rhode Island, 
Connecticut, 
New York, 
Pennsylvania, 
Indiana, 
Illinois, 
Michigan, 
Ohio, 

New Jersey, 

Wisconsin; 

Jowa, 

Total 
In 1844 

Gain, 



9377 
10309 
7184 
1115'J 
162 
2249 
12844 
2146 
2278 
5207 
2889 

185 
793 
1h2 

7/791 
61940 

16301 



■ 



The following law lias passed both 
houses of the Peun. Legislature we believe 
unanimously and become a law. Several 
other States have already passed similar 
laws. Man stealing will soon be at an end 
ia ihe free Sates, when the whole mor d 
force of the country will be concentrated 
upon the South. 

AN ACT to prevent kidnaping, preserve the public 
peace, prohibit the exercise of certain powers hereto- 
fore exercised by Judges, Justices of the Peace, Al- 
derm- n, and Jailors, in this Commonwealth, and to 
repeal certain slave laws. 

Section 1. Be it enacted, &c. That if any persons 
or set of persons shall by force or violence, 'ake orcause 
to be taken or carried away, an'l shall by fraud or false 
pretences entice or cause to be enticed, or attempt so 
to take, carry away or entice, anyfree negro or mullatto 
from any part of this Commonwealth, in any other 
place out < f this Commonwealth, with a design of sel- 
ling or of causing to be-sold, or of keeping or of causing 
to be kept, sucli free negro or mulatto, as a slave or ser- 
vent for life, or for any term whatsoever, every such 
persons, his aiders, &c, sha'l be deemed guil y of high 
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof in any Court ft 
quarter sessions of this commonwealth shall he sen 
tenced to pay at the discretion of the court, any sum no. 
less then §500 nor more than $2000, one-half whereol 
to be paid i o the person who shall prosecute f r ti e 
same and the other half to this commonwealth; and 
move over shal' undergo a p mi&hment by so ! ifary con- 
finement in the pc-iitentiary, at hard labor for a period 
of not Kss than five, nor exceeding twelve years, and 
on conviciou of the .second offence, shall be sentenced to 
pay a like fine, and undergo a punishment by Solitary 
confinement in the penitentiary : or twenty-One years. 

S i 'ion 2. That if any person shall hereafter knowing- 
lv sell or .issign, or take a transfer of any free negro o r 
mullatto, for the purpose of fraudulently removing smh 
free negro or mdatto out of this State, with the design b , 
fraud or false pretences of making him or her a slave or 
Servant for life or for any term, every person so offending 
shall undergo a punishment by solitary confinement at 
hard labor in the proper penitentiary for a period not 
less fhan'Tive, nor exceeding twelve years. 

Section- 3. That no judge of any of the courts of 
this commonwealth nor any aldermen or justice of the 
peace of said commonwealth, shall have jurisdiction o r 
cognizance of the case of anv fugitive from labor from 
anv of the United States or territories, under a certain 
act of Congress passed February 12th, 17'.)3, entitled. 
"An aet respecting fugitives from justice and persons 
escaping from the service of their masters," nor shall 
any such judge, alderman, or justice ofthe peace of this 
commonwealth, issue or giant any certificate or warrant 
of removal, of any such fugitive from labor under said act 
of Congress, or under any other law, authority or act of 
the Congress ofthe United States; and if any aide: man 
or justice ofthe peace of this commonwealth, shall take 
c>g' izance or jurisdiction of the case of any such fu- 
gitive, or shall is-ue any certificate or warrant of re- 
moval as afureside, lie shall be deemed guilty of a mis- 
demeanor in office, and shall on conviction thereof be 
sentenced to pay at the discretion of the court, any sum 
not less than $50" nor exceeding $1000, one half to 
the party prosecuting and the other to the use of the 
State. 

Section 4. That if any person or persons claiming any 
negro boy or mullatto as a fugitive from servitude or la- 
bor, shall under any pretence of authority whatsoever, 
violently and tumultous seize upon and carry away to 
anv place,or attempt to seize and carry away in a riotous 
violent, tumultously and unreasonable manuer, and so 
as to disturb or endanger the public peace, any negro or 
mulatto before any distinct or circuit judge, the person 
or persons so offending, shall be deemed* guilty 
of a misdemeauor, and on conviction shall be sentenced 



to pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than 1000. 
with costs of prossecution and be confined in the county 
jail for any period at the discretion ofthe court not ex- 
ceeding three months. 

Section 5. That nothing in 'his Act shall be costruc- 
ted to take away what is hereby d claied to be invested 
in the Judges of this commonwealth, tbe righ , power 
and authority at all times, on application made, to issue 
the writ of habeas corpus, and to inquire into the causes 
and legality of > tie arrest or imprisonment of a iy human 
being within this commonwealth. 

Section 6. It shall not he lawful to use any j'ti! or 
prison of this commonwel'.h fiir the detention of unv per- 
son claimed as a fugitive from servitude or labor, ex- 
cept in cases where jurisdictio 1 may lawfully be taken 
by any judge, under the provision of this act: and ■ ;r 
jailor, or keeper of any prison, brother pers in who shall 
■ fiend against the provisions of this section, shall on 
conviction pay a fine of $500, on- -ha! f for the use of 
the commonwealth, and the other half t« the person 
who prossecutes; and shall moreover h> nceforthbe re- 
moved from office, and be incapable of holding tucb o! 
fice of jailor or keeper of a prison at any time during 
his natural life. 

Section 7. That so much of the aet of the Genera' 
Assembly, entitled "An act for the gradual abolition ol 
Slavery," passed March 1st, 1780, as authorizes ttv 
masters or owners of slaves to bring and retain such 
laves within this commonwealth for the period of sb 
tinonths,vn involuntary servitude or for an\ period oftime 
whatsoever, and so much of act as prevents a s ave fron 
giving testimony against anv person whatsoever, be ant 
the same is hereby repealed. 

Section 8. So much of all laws of this commonwealth 
as are hereby altered, be and the same is hereby repeal- 
ed. 



TEMPEjUSTCE. 



From the Liberty Advocate . 

"Peiushabi.e Puopf,rtv." — In the Eutaw (Ala.) 
Whig, we find the following ad vertisemrnt. 

NOTICE, 

I will sell to the highest bidder, en the 25th day of 
January, 1847, at the late residence- of Joseph Mayes, 
deceased, near Union, in Green county, all the peris - 
able property?? ihe estate ofthe said Juseph Mayes, de- 
ceased, consisting in part of. 

'fen Likely Negroes. 

Household Furniture, farming utensils, &C.&C on a 
credit of twelve months, with bond and approved secur- 
ity- 

R. LEACHMAN, Adm'r. 
December 24, 1849 255 ids 

Perhaps Mr. Leachman may never upon this ear ti 
find out his mistake, in calling these ten likely negroes 
"perishable property," but at the rfay of judgement, it 
not before it is most probable be will. "Perishable 
Property!" freeman of America.' — think over it, pondci 
on it, and be. ashamed for the hand you have in the mat 
ter, that ten of Goc/'s likeness, ten immortal souls, for 
whom Christ died as much as you or me, were so'd upon 
the auction block, like a cargo of darnagedfrnit. as per 7 
ishable property, and no m: v. dared to say aught against 
the accursed deed. The band will- please strike up the 
tune of 

"Hail .Columbia, Happy Land!" 



HJ^The const iculionaiily of toe law of 
Massachusetts, New llanpshfre and Rhode 
Island, prohibiting the Lieense Law? I 
been sustained by the unanimous decisii u 
of the Supreme Court ofthe United 
•-Hates. 

This is anolhar glorious victory for the 
Cause of Temperance. We guess the hu- 
man Slaughter Hi uses of the land will be 
closed after a while. "Wait a little lon- 
ger." 

0 

The news of the decision of the Su- 
preme Court on the License question 
hed Woon.so.jket. Monday evening and 
operated like a thunder bolt upon the rum- 
sellers. It was what the ninepin gamblers 
call a perfect "(en strike." it instantly 
wept the boards of every rum shop in the 
village, and the lino-abiding proprietors 
left the State in a body, and are said to be 
aking lessons on a subj ect to winch they 
have heretofore been entire strangers — that 
of keeping a respectable public house; and 
are under the tuition of the accomplished 
propr-etor of the Temperance Hotel at 
Blackstane, Mass. Wonder if the Supre- 
me Court of this State sits next Monday! 

We do not wish to see them hung; but 
we really hope they will feel the proprie- 
ty of becoming good, and whole-woe 
>nd respectable citizens, by pursuing some 
.'ess piratical business than that of maim, 
f tcturing drunkards. Liberty Advocate. 

Poi.icf. FErcr.T. — No FIGHT in rum-square thia 
veek. Rea: -n — nothing to make one out of, since the 
■urn shops clos' d. Liberty Advocate. 

§5= It is said that Rumsellers in the city of New 
'. . are so hard up tr> gat names to put 0:1 their petitions 
to the Legislature for a repeal of the -Excise Law 
h •: they go to he grape -yards «nd take names off the 
tomb-stones! Liberty Adrvcate- 



A Bill has passed the United Stat-s Senate. vo>« 
dissenting- to pay $50,000 to Ruiz and Montez for tin 
losses they sustained in the liberation ofthe Africans of 
the Amistad. Webster and Davis of Mass. and other 
northern Senators, if they did not vote for the Bill, suf- 
fered it to pass without opposition. We rejoice that 
this infamous proposition was defeated in the House by 
a vote of 1 12 to 40. 



"A blockhead, dress him as yen will, 
Will be at best a blockhead still." 



(f^ VERMONT— The vote on tbe License ques- 
'ion was taken in Vermont on the 2d ins,;, and resulted 
in a majority for no lice nse of 8.091, ncaaly two to one 
thoughout the Slate. This is another great victory fur 
Temperance, the result affects every town in the Slate 
alike, Rumsel'ing is therefore, not lega'ized in Taverns 
any where in Vermont. 

Gen. Ta\ler is s'aunch Tc-totaller not having 
touched tasted or handled ardent spirits during the last 
twenty ears of his life. Is it any wonder that he is a 
good soldier? — Ttmp. Fnterprize. 

Why is it not a wonder? nothing makes nvn fight 
like rum. 

ffe. DELAWARE. The people of this state vote 
on the License question by Counties. No License 
will be the verdict without doubt 

The I.ojMslatnre of Indiana hasgiven the Liccu- 

se question to the Towns. 

flt-The people ot the city of New York spend at no- 
ally $730,000 for cigars When the Legislature pas d 
the law giving thelicensc Question to ihe peOpk at 
the very urgent solicitations of the people, of this grea* 
city, this law was not allowed to extend its benr fits •-- 
moug its population. Hum and Tobacco are kmdied 
associates. 



f» © IE T M Y 



SEL EC ( ED 
TTOIC^ OJF CJIjLJEIt 

Be fit 1 !!! and be faithful, 

Desert not the right; 
The brave become bolder, 

The darker the right' 
Then up and be doing, 

Though cowar.is may fail, 
Thy duty pursuing, 

Dare ail and prevail! 

If scorn be thy portion, 

It' hatred and loss, 
If stipes, and if pi ison, 

Remember tiie cross! 
God watches abuve thee, 

And he will requite: 
Sooner leave those who love thee, 

Thau God and the right. 



RELIGION. 
Religion does not consis'. in a blind demotion to any 
particular tenet of Cieed makers, or in the observance ol 
certain rituals, for Jhere ?'s as much idolatry in these as 
ihere Is in bowing to blocks of wood and stone; but in 
the every day practical exercise of love to God and love 
1 to man; that kind of love which does not consist in 
: prqfessinj, but in a< tual doing; not ihat love which ex- 
hibits itself in mere feelinq, but in acting; the Pharisee 
.' gave good evide nce of possessing 'he former when he 
j said, -'be ye warmed and filled;" but it took the good Sa- 
; maritan to exhibit the latter, by binding up the wounds 
! ofhim who had fallen among thieves & giving consola- 
! tion to the distressed. He who loves God truly, wili 
j make his love, toman be felt, not merely talked about; 
i and he whose heart and hands are engaged in the prac- 
tical service of man, cann ot but love God. 



From the Hamilton Sludent. 

A Song for Reformers. 

On is our watchword — our motto tiil Right — 
We work for m uikind iu earnest and might; 
Stars teacu us a tesson: they sparkle mare bright, 
Peering from hea .eu through the clouds of the 
night. 

Just is our cause, though the labor severe — 
That labor which tires, will bring the hour near 
Whe.i success shall burst forth uke the star of the 

da y> 

And dark disapointment shall hasten away. 

Then I bor, O. Iubor/ 'gainst hell and the world; 
Christ is our lealer — the strong bolts He hurled 
At oppression and sin, will soon, soon b' ing low 
The powers that sink man in gloom and dei p wo. 

Th.m onward, straight onward/ ten thousands the 

woes, 

Ten thousand the weals that hang O'l our blows/ 

Ne'er let us yeild to the forces of Error, 

Whi.e an arrow remains in Truth's good>y quiver! 

As enternal as God His nrinciple are, 
0 fend ihem He wi i 'gainst the "powers of the 
air;" 

The wreath that we court shall in heav nbe found, 
By the hand of our God stiall the iaDorer be 
crowned. 
Febuary, 1847. 



NOTICES. 



PROSPECTUS 

OF VOLUME IX. FOR 1847, 

or THE 

AMERICAN PHIi KNOLOGiCAL 
JO URXAL. 



0. S. FOWLER, Editoh. 



THE POTATOE. 

Much anxiety exists every where about the fulure 
usefu lness of the potatoe. It has become a very im- 
portant article offood so much so that tew people k tow 
how to dispense with it, and yet many feel that it can 
nevei again be cultivated so as to contribute as it has 
to the confort of man. Asdie time for planting is near 
at hand A few the Lights as to the best manner of cultiva- 
ting ihis vegetable may be of service. 

1st. Select dry, ei vaied k somewhat sloping ground 
to plant on, and p ant without manure in the hill. We 
know some wno last fall ;!ug go id sound po> aloes from 
a side hill, while those p'anted on flat po' lions ot land 
in thp, same field were good for iothing. 

2d. Instead of making a furrow to plant in as farmer.-, 
usually do, plant on me - ISp" of the ground 'ind by tak- 
ing earth from between the hills to cov r them wuiiand 
to draw around them, thus a high hill will be formed 
which we b. lieve wil : do much towards sa ing the po- 
tatoe from the rot. We know some farmers that prac- 
tice this mode, who last year had abu- danc • of Excel- 
lent potatoes, while their neighbors lost all or nearly all 
by the' r*t. ' * • — *MfflU.« 

3d. Some advise planting early. 



To reform and perfect Man — to deuelope, by culture 
the original beauties on* - ! capabilites of his nature — is a 
work the most arduous and exalted tba,t can possibly 
engage human intellect or effort. To do this effectual bj! 
however, hisniture must be k.vcwn; and since phre- 
vology and physiology imbody his entire constitu- 
tion, there is no \u) by which we can so easily become 
acquainted with ourselves, or for what occupation in 
life we are best qualified, as by the aid of the^e scien- 
ces. To these subjects and their various applications, 
will this Journal b" devoted. It will present, 

PHRENOLOGY. 

Each number will analize one or more of the Phren 
o'ogica. organs, both singly and intheir various combi 
nations, illustrated by engravings, showing their loca- 
tion. Each number will .<lso contain the Phrenologi 
ca! development and character of some distinguishe I 
individual, accompanied, by their likenesses. This de- 
qartment will give just that practical view of Phrenolo- 
gy which is required in order to fully understand its 
proper application. 

PHYSIOLOGY. 
To know and obey those laws of life and health, un- 
folded by these sciences, constitutes the main basis and 
superstructure of talent, virtue, and happiness. This 
department will also be illustrated by engravings. 
ANIMAL MAGNETISM 
Will receive its due attention; and our readeis- 
wrfl receive through this medium, all tnat is new, inter 
esting, ami important. 

WOMAN, 

Her character, influence sphere, and couscquint duties; 
the government an o education of children, <lyc. — will al- 
so be presented iu /his Journal. 

Our field is indeed the world, Physical, Intellectual, 
and Morai. Human improvement and happiness we 
shah et> .eavor m promote. Thes , therefore, who are 
i i , i esu'd in th • ad vanc.'m. nt of our race, and would 
ameliorate their c ndilion, may do so perhaps more ef- 
fectually by circulating this .lourn 1, than by any other 
means; tor it wiV imoody tne principles of all reform. 

This work will !>e issued o.on hly, containing thirty j 
two or more pages, on good type and paper, at the ex- 
treme low 

i J R!CE OF ^1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 
Subscriptions should, in ail cases, b>' addressed, post 
pjiid. to FOWLERS & WELLS, 

Pmrrnologicai. Cabinet, 131 Nassau St. Mew York. 



BOON TON WASHINGTON TEMPERANCE 
B EN EVOLENT SOCIETY meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church, THOMAS RILEY Pres. 
STEPHEN GRIMES. Sec. 

The Liberty Almanac for 1847 — Is a pamphlet 
of 4b closely printed pages prepared with great caie by 
a master hand, and illustrated by several engravings de- 
signed and executed expressly for this work. In order 
to give the widest possible circulation to this valuable 
Anii-Sla\ ery document, the wholesale price has been 
reduced to the following rates: 

230 copies or upwards at $30 00 per 1,000. 

100 or 200 copies " 3 50 « 100. 
50 copies for$2 — 25 for $1, Stc. 

All orders must enclose the Cash, and should desig- 
nate the conveyance by which they are to be forwarded 

Also, for sale, Rademacher's German Liberty Alma- 
nac for 1S-17; with a large variety of Anti-Slavery books, 
racts, engravings, S;c. at the Depository of the Am. 
and For. Anti-Slavery Society, No. 5 Spruce-st. .by 
WILLIAM HARNED. 

m-'Vhc "AME/7/CAN MISSION A II ¥," 

is a new name given to the Union Mission- 
ary, which is published at No 5 Spruce 
S'treet N. ^ ., and is t lie organ of (he 
\merican Missionary Society, organized in 
■^ept last at a convention held in Albany. 

The Society "refuses donations from Slave- 
holders. Lewis Tap pan of New York is 

Treasurer. 



gr^THE PRISONER'S FRIEND, is the title of a 
weekly periodical devoted to the abolition of Capital 
Punishment and the Reformation of the Criminal, pub- 
lished at No. 40 Cornhill, Boston, Mass., by Charles & 
John M. Spear. Terms, 0"e dollar in advance. 



CHRISTIAN L\ V EislluA 1 UK. — is Hit mie 
of a small monthly paper by William Goodellat Hone- 
oye, Ontario County N. Y. at 50 cents per annum. It 
is an excellent paper, aid Mr Goodell is abundantly 
qualified to do justice to its name. 

{^SHOWER BATHS^J 
A few shower Baths, ready for immediate use 
for sale low at thisorliice. Persons knowing ti e value 
of such articles aie not willing to be without tlum. 



BLANK DEEDS lor sale at this Orhce. 



LIBERTY Minstrel. — A few copies of Clark's Lib- 
erty Minstrei for sale at the Office of the Freeman 
Every singing Abolitionist should have one i f these 

books. 



THE LIBERTY ALMANAC 
for 1S47, for sale at this office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for sale at this 
office among which are the following. 
Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West Indies, 
Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As.ftflfc. ^ nfunT rrrf- •?< 

Life of Granville sharp, , t)0 ]f. 

Jays Inquiry, .. • , ~ i fI 

Buxton ou the Slave Trade, , . 

Rankins Letters, 

Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglas*, 

Altbn Rio's it Alton T tals, : • Ot *«o- t<»q 

Channing on Slavery, *tc ; a* .to 8* ^mtbrnum # 




WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Uuonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, orfor 12 number.- 
10 copies to one address for tw o dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



forth' Riu Grande. He reached it < n the 28 of March, 



From the Hampshire Herald. 

Cuu.^es anil Character of lite War with 
.Mexico. 

That even the effrontery of James It. Polk recoiled 
from the fu*l assumption that the Rio Grande is the 
' boundary, was evinced by a trejn»ndous order." not to 
disturb the Mexican forces in possession of military es- 
tablishments and posts," of wh eh, says the Secretary oi 
VW, "the Depar inept is informed that Mexico has 
some on the e' st side of Hie Rip Grand©.' 1 What f r- 
eig . ' forces" and "military establishment ami posts" 
On American soil, and at American President not to 
disturb them! What did ibis mean? Jl meant that 
t)»e auf'ior of this order felt irresistably that the territory 
was not ours, and that it was his intention, by insidious 
and stealthy advances, which should not too suddenly 
phock the moral sense of the people, to make it ours. 
It meant invasion and war with the iefimte aggravation 
of pic-tending it was peace. 

In another order the Secretary says; 

''Should Mexico assemble a 'arge army on the Rio 
GraMe, and cross it with a considerate force, such a 
movement must be. regarded as an invasion of the Uni- 
ted States and the commencement of war." 

Then to invade our country with a small force would 
pat be an invasion,, would it? 

In yet another] 

"You have been advised that the assembh'ngof a large 
army on the borders of Texas. [Where now is Polk's 
lifrontiers of Mexico?"] and crossing the Rio Grande 
with a considerable force, will he regarded by the Ex- 
ecutive here as an invasion and the commencement of 
wa>- An attempt to cross the nv r with such a force 
will he considered in the same light." 

S"e how our Pr siden* cre-ips on, like a trembling 
Urchin, fearing the parent's eye, while he sines to tube 
the forbidden thing. — Truth is alwa-s consistent. 
Behold th consistency ofthe§,e \vicked and dissembling 
rulers! Our army is not to disturb "the Mexican fe - 
ces in possession of military astablishmcnts and post o 
the east side of I he Rio Grande;" but if Mcxio boid 
Ceyninuniealion with those esiubltshmen'-s, for the pur- 
pose o:* relieving the troops, or conveying provisun. 
stores, or pay, this is "invasion and war IV 

Subsequently, on the 16 ot October, the Secretary 
tells Taylor "to appnach as near the western boundary 
of Texas, the Rio Qnde. as circumstances will permit. 
He dee., well to explain that the Rio Grande is "the 
Western bounder*.- of Texas.'' If the territory was ours, 
What circumstances should forbid our occupying any 
and ever-, part of- it?' 

It is e-. id»-nt that Taylor, soldier as he is, was reluc- 
tant to take the irrevocable to which he was thus invi- 
ted, lie knew it would be war. Our Government it- 
Self, f ur mounhs before, had caut oned him on this 
point, bavin, declared that the step would be "apyres- 
sive," that it would be "to make war." Tayior re" 
Drained in moveable, until ai last i he positive and fatal 
order of Jamjars 13th, 1846, was issued twenty-seven 
days after <S'li 'ell's declaration of war in Meic«, just a - 
bout time for it te reach, the city of Washington. Then 
Taylor struck his ten,t$ and took up the \\\\) of m.iroh 



having penetruted one hundred a d fifty miles, nearly 
as far as the Canada :iae lV m B stow, into the int rior 
of Mexico. His hvech wate unmolested! He Occas 
ion dlly descried sccuti' g parties, "v. I, avoided him, " 
a-id was met by a body of cavalry ; hi: ty miles from th 
riy-r, who notified him that the crossing of a sn a I 
stream th n 'lefore Mm, ■ aula be considered as a hoc i-e 
act. The mhabitan s fe"d ftvain flWft plantations and 
Houses at his .approach. They burned the cusiom-h use 
at Santiago, and abandoned the town. He "f end Poiiu 
Isabel in flames," ;-nd "three inof.'ensive inhabitants?' 
left in U. What dees ot;i jjiu y in its ta w pt-sitio 
Gen. Tay'oy sha.' 1 teli: 

''•Aeuii. 8.- - On our side, n b atlerv. of four 18 poui.d 
ers wi'l be completed, and the guns placed in battery 
to-day. These •••u-s beardireejjl yu;.on the puUi a nan- 
oi'Matamoros, and within a good rang- for dt'(Qpijghing 
th town." 

l ie blockaded the river y itb a mow to cut off sup- 
plies from the Mexican a' my in Ma^amoros. 

April 15- — "No hostile movement has been made 
by the Mexicans." 

Ai'itt:. 23. — "With a vi nvto cb' ck the depredations 
of smal ! parties of Mexicans on this side of the river, 
Lieuts. Dobbin an i Porter were authorized by me, a fey 
days sirjee;, to scour the country for some miles with a 
select party of men, and capture and destroy any such 
parses as»tliey might meet. * * * * 

Lieut. Por'ei, at the hi ae of his detachment suppos- 
ed a Mi xtean camp, drove away the men, and loekpos- 
sessi n of t';eir horses." 

This whb I he fit si hostile violence, and it appeals that 
it was all on our side. In the same letter as if toclinch 
il e tiail, which pins to the counter this counterfeit of 
rj President, G n. Taylor says: 

•'Notwithstatfdiftg'VBe alternative of war, presented by 
Geo. Ampudia : , no hostile movement has yet been made 
by hi.* force," 

April. 26, — "I regret to report (hat a par=y of dia:-- 
oons, s " t out by me on the 24th inst., to watch the 
oiuse of th-- river above on this bank, became engaged 
with a very large force of the enemy, an 1 affcr a short 
affair, in which s< me sixteen were killed and wounded 
appear to ha.ye, hoe a surrounded a*'d compelled to sur- 
render." "Ho-tih.ies may u w be fairly comm need." 

The question is * ho commenced then. ' — I say with- 
out fear of contradiction, that the first step of Taylors 
m wrch from the r.ook p ' Tamaulipai nctmly in posses- 
sion of Texas, was the commencejnewt of hostilities. 

Our governne nt had d> liberat elv decided, seven 
months before, that it would bf to make war." 

To put tlvm irretrievably, at every point and in every 
particular, in the wrong, the first blow, by their own 
showing, was struck by tbcm on he 23d day of April, 
iS-16. It was done, with out resistance on the part o, 
the Mexicans. Even in the next affair, the dragoons 
it is said, were the aggressors, and fclh ved un the at 
lack until they found themselves in a chapporal sur- 
rounded by a numetou -body which was covered by it. 
Yet, savsour Pt^sid nt, Mexico "commenced hostili- 
ties," and that her "a\o«.d purpose in oon-mrnring 
the war was to re-conq' <r Texas." When and where 
did she avow that? Re-conquer Texas !" What! 
w hen she wa< Offering to receive our minister, if be 
would consent f o treat on that very subject; when she 
was "concentrating no trcrps on the ri-er." 
"making no preparation for a demonstra- 
tion on this side," an had given orders to Ik^ 
forces ''to limit themselves to th-- dtfensive," and had 
promptly communicated tin se orders to our government: 
But listen to General La Vepa, whom this countrv 



people will respect. On the 28th of March, he said to 



knows us j brave an knhiui man, and s^]l04a word, ib^ 



Gen Worth : 

"That the march of the United States lrsop3 through 
a t art of the Mexican territory was war; tlmt Mexico 
had not declared war. The two countries were at 
peace. We ["the Mexicans] felt indignant at seeing 
the American flacr placed on the Rio Grande, a portion 
of the Mexican territory." 

On the 12th of Apr'l G^n. Ampudia, the Mexican 
commander-in-chief, wrote to Gen. 'Taylor: 

"Your government in an incredible manner, has in- 
sulted and exasperated the Mexican nation, bearing its 
conquering banner to the left bank of Rio Del Norte. 

In this ease, by definitive orders of my government, 
I reqlM o you with all formality, ta break up your camp, 
an withdraw to the other. side of the ISuces, while our 
governments are treating." "If you insist on re: an 
Lag on :he soil of Tamaulipas, it must clearly rc-suit that 
arms must decide the question." 

The President of Mexico, having been informed of 
Gen. Taylor s march upon the Rio Grande, issued a 
manif sto in which he said : 

"I sob mny announce that I do no* declare war n- 
gainst the United States of America, because that be- 
ongs to 'he august C ngress; — but the defence of M X- 
ican territory, which the forces of the United Stateshavo 
invaded, is an urgent necesiry." 

if there ever was a case in which the fable of the 
wolf and the lamb was realized, it. is this. Yet Pres- 
ident Polk says "we did not provoke the war," "Mex- 
ico commenced the war" "Mexico invaded our soil," 
Mexico has never place! the war she has waged, on 
t e ground ot our army occupy ing the intermediate ter- 
ritory n the Rio Grande. Read this extract of a 
letter trom an officer of our army, dated at the camp, 
April 18th. lS-id, and published in the Philadelphia 
Spirit o£the Times: "Our situation here is an extra- 
•'rdinarv one. Right in >he <■ nymy's country, actualy 
dednpyirig their corn and cotton fields, the people of tho 
soil Wiving their homes, and «ilh a handful of men 
marching tih colors flying, and drums beating right 
under the very guns of one of their principal cities., dis- 
playing the £tar-s_pangled banner as if in dt fi mce under 
h-irvery nose; and they with an army twice our size 
at least, sit quietly down, and make not the least, resis- 
tance, nor the first rftb.it to drive the invaders off" 

Other letters from the a.itm , which found their way 
into the newspapers of the day, stated that there was 
"a flense population on the hither bank of the river 
all Mexican, all loyal to the Mexican government, that 
they had ail abandoned this side of the river, having 
valuable prop'rties," that they were actuated by a uni- 
versal feeling of hostility towards the United States, 
that "our martial music sounded defia c 1 from 'hecarnp 
opposite Matampros," t winch the Mexican music an- 
swered in like strain from the oposite feaofc. 

Had the territory been unquestionably oars, it would 
haye been a wanton, aio»vand brutal bravado to encamp 
our army and to conduct thus in the face of a neighbor- 
ing army and people. It was tauly barbarian. Have 
not my countrymen sense, candor and generosity enough 
to enter a little into the feelings of their aggrieved fellow 
-men? to apprec iate the natusej and just sentiments ut- 
tered bf" Gen. La Veg ? to think a little of the golden 
rule, to imagine an exchange of positions? 

Tayior er-c s a heavy battery, pointing into the heart 
of Mat imoros, at a few hundred yard- distance; bids his 
■ professors of clatter" to ring and rattle in the ears of 
the Mexican troops and pcaceiul citizens fierce sounds 
of defiance, he breaks up a Mexican camp, drives off 
the men, and captures their horses; he blockades heir 



river with the avowed purpose of cutting off thsj sujr> 
jjjh.es of the troops and *ut \ iWtheia qut. THIS WAS 



gEIGLI— THIS WAS WAR. 

Can there be a guestiofl in the mi id of any> but a 
malman, who' was the aggressor, leaving the Texas in- 
Huity entirely out of the ease ? 

But there is still stronger ground against Poikand his 
accomplices. They have uniformly admitted that the 
question' of boundary remains to be jot'led. Calhoun 
specially instructed oar charge in Mcxicb to say this in 
o. most soothing manner, and that we were prepared to 
Settle it "on the most liberal terms." The wicked res 
jlatio'.is of Annexation said this, and Polk said it again 
and again and the SecreWrv of War Said that Mexico 
wfisin possession of the disputed territory. 

Then, in the name of heaven, why did they assume 
ijiiS the boundary was already settled, and fixed on t 1 r 
Rio tlrarde, and commence, on that assumption, the 
work of death and destruction, which they are now a- 
bout? If it was disputed territdry. as they admit, the\ 
had rid right to set a foot upon it. What did we see 
when the British came in a far Its bfiensive manner u 
port territory then in dispute 7 

It «as to prevent trespassers from cutting timber, at: 
Interest common to oar selves with Great Britain; yet 
all Mtiine was immediately in arms, and the tocsin 
scutided through the la'-d. Nothing but their with- 
drawal prevented immediate war. 

In any posible view of the case, James K. Polk, and 
his vile counsellors weft the aggressors, the unprovokt d 
the deliberate, the selfconvicted aggressors. Our Ex- 
ecutive alone made the war. Nor; according to oui 
poor, trampled, and mutilated Constitution. Conjress 
has'the exclusive 1 psuer to make war. It has been < ui 
chief boa^t, to bei- g free, that we could not, like th 
nations of the old world, be involved in the horrors o; 
war, t*5 1 .0 butchered and become human butch 
crs at the p ; ea-ti e Of caprice of one man. Con<rres«. 
was in session when Slidel's war letter was received and 
trie « ar 6'rder issued,' but the autorcrat did nc consult 
the only war-making pow er known to the Constitution' 
And yet, (J sham' 1 , shame, ever during shame/ that 
base b'.dy, when called upon by the tyrant to registei 
his decree, tt> fath«ir his bloody bastar I, and provide ft> 
it-,' support, complied without a moment's pause, an 
without perm i ting oh ■ of the fourteen Lots, whom Got 
in his mercy had lef us, to be heard! And as if thi> 
was not degradation enough, (hey volunteered to white 
wash the black usurper of their most precious prcroga 
♦ive, by solemnly enacting that Mexico was the ag- 
ft&tsson/ No language but Shakespeare's fi:s: 

"You told a lie, an odious, damned lie, 
Upon my sou' a lit;, a wicked lie," 
A lie to lacker over a new and the boldest breach o 
the Con-ti'utiOn — S Re to justify -<nd eneoutage ruber 
and murder, a lie to be maintained by a great and chris 
tian people, s'eiAing their hands with deeds of indefinite 
devastation and death', v. l. c 



tMe new jersey 
FREEMAN, 

BOON TON, MAY 15, 1847. 



THE ANGEL AND HIS GUIDE. 

A young angel being sent down to this word r-rtsomt 
business for the m-sl time, had an old courrier's spiri; 
assigned him as a ^uide; tin y arrfe( d over the seat < t 
Mai lino in the midst of a long da tttid in sight of an ob- 
stinate fight between the fleets of ttodney and De Grass* 
When l! trough the cloud of smoke he saw the fire o 
the guns, the decks covered with mangled limbs or dead 
.bodies, or dying; the ship sinking, burning, or blown 
i'lto the air; and the quantity of pain, misery and destruc 
tion of the crew who were yet alive, with much eager 
ness dealing around to one another, he turned angrilv 
to his guide and said "You undertake to corfduct me to 
earth and you have brought me to hell!" "No," sail, 
the guide, "I have made no mistake; this is really earth 
a-ul these are mm. Dev/ls never tread one another in 
this manner, they have more serfse and more of what 
men call humanity." Dr. Franklin. 



'LABOR. Remember that labor is necessary fo ex- 
eellen'ee. This is an eternal truth, although vanity can- 
not he 'brought to acknowledge or indolence to heed it. 



Hearts dead to the claims ol man, cannot be alive to 
the commands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
he ground where humanit) withers. Keep. 

The notice in another column of a State Anti Slave- 
ry Convention to be held in Newark, we hope may re- 
eive all the atten ion the subj' ct demands. If it does, 
we shall have a great gathering of the friends of liberty 
from all parts of the State on that occasion. There can 
be no good reason given why we should not. Newark 
is easy to get to from nearly all parts of the State, and 
we dare promise free entertainment for all « ho come 
from a distance, by the friends of the slave in Newark. 

The first business ot the C'onv< nfton w ill be, to cor!- 
-ider, and act upon the employment of an Agent 
to g<> through the Stale, hold meetings, lecture and do 
other business for the. cause which should riot be delayed. 

We are certain that the field is now open for the ac- 
• omplishment o! much go d for the cause in this state 
by a competent agent, and sureh there is enou h th;U 
should be done to awaken the dormant sympathies of 
the people of this state in behalf of the down-trodden &. 
pp essed poor of his nation. The case now- in ohr 
L'ourts involving the. right of the New Jei'sry slaves to 
heir freedom uhdojjthe new Cons itution, requires that 
he people should be stirred up in reference to raising 
he funds necessary to defray the expenses of the suit, 
is well as m reference to other aspects of the case. 
The committee or some members of it, have already 
advanced more thanj^hey have received, and this Busi- 
ness can be done up more effectually by'anfagent who 
•an visit the people in their respceth e towns, and while 
enlightening them on the great subject of human rights, 
ma, induce them to contribute some thing ?to redeem 
hrir own State from the condifon, the crime, and dis'-j 
race of n slaveholding State. 

Besides the business « hich is conlernpla'od in the 
a!i for his Convention, measures will be taken to make] 
he meetings interr« sting, instructing and profitable to 
ill who attend, and beneficial to the cause, by address- 
's from competent persons from abroad who «ill be in 
Attendance, May we not have a g >od and profitable 
neeting? We shall 'the friends will take interest 
nough in the cause to come oet. We should at this 
meeting give the cause an impulse that [would prove 
i) be the commencement of a new Era in the history of 
he cause in this S'ate. Let us nil he there, then, from 
North, East, and W st Jersey There are good friends 
>f the cause in all parts of the state; and can we not 
have a general rally on 'he socvind ■ f Ju"o at Newark? 

The Meetings will without doubt he held in the 
■hurch in C:'intbn"Steet, aril \v,> trust ourjfriends Un- 
lerwood Johnson and others in Newark', wi'l make 
ill neess-ary arrangements for an efficient meeting. 

The Legislature of Maine has passed a law, requi- 
ring the venders of patent medicines to have attached id 
ach hofW,- box, &c, a b.oel setting forth the several 
ngredients" of which the compound consists, with the 
proportions of each. 

The ft#fbtiht of tobacco annually con- 
sumed in Enrrfaml, is saitl to be twenty-six 
iiiil lions five hundred and fiftv-seven thous- 
tnd one hundred and forty three thousand 
pounds. 

The catholic clergy of France have join 
d in a petition for the immediate and to- 
tal abolition of slavery in the French col- 
onies. 

TO M X NY A RICH MAN 

You boast you have uiade the monev, 

And that, no doubt, is true ; 
'But others say, the money 

iias done tiia same to you ! 



BOONTON. — We l ave sometimrjf be< n asked by 
strangers, what and where is Boon ton? As its h;M<iy 
has never been written, wo will give a biief sketch of 
its location and a few ether particulars. 

Boontonisa village situated among the Hills in Mor- 
ris County, on the Rockaway branch of the Passaic 
River. It is situated about ten mil s liem Morristown, 
sixteen from Paterson, nineteen miles from Newark and 
twenty eight from New York, in a westerly directiorr 
from the la:ter place. 

The Morris Canal, running from Eastori to jer sep 
City, runs through the place, having two locks and ait 
inclined Plain in the village \\ ith a fn'l of about one hun- 
dred feet. The Legislature has granted a charter for 
a Rail Road from' Dover, ( a- town about tea 
miles to tne west) to Pater son, and a Rail Road now 
constructing between Dover and Morristown comes 
within five miles of Boonteri. 

The scenery is cf natures Vi oikmansl ip. and is beau- 
tiiully lOh-.aritic. Hills, highly elevated, giving exten- 
sive views 6f the surrounding country, holiowsand deep 
ravines, all adorn* d with recks of l uge dimensions and 
all the varieties of foim, piled upon each other after 
nature's manner of doing business, with thousands of 
trees of aimost every variety growing in this region, in- 
cluding abundance of boi.ulifu! evergreens, with the 
Fails in the River which are quite extensively known 
as a gri at curiosity, having a perpendicular height of 
abont fifty feet, all togelhar afil rds a rich treat to all the 
iovers of the romantic. Indeed we think that he who 
cannot find a rich repast in S ramble am< ng our hi'ls, 
and our rocks, through our ravines, around cur Falls 
aad under our gre< n trees &c. hiu.st belong to tl.t frigid 
zorie and be u anting in most of the susceptibilities of 
true pleasure. 

From its elevated situa'icn Shd continued . niotien of 
the waters in many places along the river and canal, 
we have no stagnant atmorphere, and Beonlon is cnC 
of the most healthy situations in the United States. 

Boenton c ntains four ft t< r< s,toe- CI mil i s. a Pre: bv- 
terian and Congrega: ional, a few Mcihodis's and Catho- 
lics who have occasion. .1 meetings, i;d a ntimbiv of In- 
dependents. 

The Tbwu has improved very rni'ich w .Miin the last 
two years in buildings and otherwise, and many such 
improvements are stil 1 in progress. 

The principal business of the placf; is in the Iron 
Factory of the New J ersi y Iron Co., the building <F 
which was begun in 1829 when the place was a solitary 
w ildtu'tics except the excavation of the canal which was 
'hen in progres. The Factory is silua cd on a branch 
of the canal running from the fbeitof the inclined Plain 
aiid can have the benefit of all the water in the river. A 
vast quantity of Iron 1 ft ■ been made in this Factory , & 
many valuable improvements in the making of iron have 
been made also. Under the active rnlorj rizo hi iho 
present agent, William tGreeh, the mill has 1 een ih'.ar- 
-d, new furnaces ereetiTl, and is in »xcellent ord«r i".r 
doing a great business. Besides the other iron irihflc 
in the mill, it is in complete order for making Rail Head 
Iron, of which they are now turning out about a ton an 
hour, night and day, and expect soon fo finish a much 
larger quantity. These rails have been pronounced, by 
good judges, the best made in the country. We be- 
lieve they are heavier than any heretofore made in the 
United Steteff. 

The facilities for any manufacturing business are nu- 
merous now, and when the contemplated Rail Road is 
carried through as it no doubt it will be at some time 
not far distant, they will be inferior to none in the Uni- 
ted Stales. 

Between the head of the Plane and the foot, is a fall 
of about SO feet, and through the rout the whole of ihe 
river is or can be turned. Fifty feet of tbk fall is un- 
ocupied, with the exception of what is taken up by 
the machinery at ibe bead of the Plam. and can ad be 
used twice over before it is u»ed iu the mill a", pre i r.t 
in operation at the foot. The river below die Mil, h*s 
a rapid fall for a mile, is entirely unoeupied, 
and cou d be fiHed with milk all the w ay. 1 lie moi.i*- 



tains in ihe vicinity, and along the canal, furnish abun- 
dance of charcoal and iroli ore. Jn short the facilities 
for manufacturing here are great, and will continue to 
improve; while the hold is almost entin 1\ unocupicd. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



O lion r I abominate the conseVvatifrni 
which interdicts progress! Us iron tyranny 
has ground mankind down into the dust 
ever since the building of Babel; and many, 
most of the evils, civil, political and relig- 
ious, under which we now groan, and which 
we are now strugling to throw off, are its 
pampered progeny. O. S. Fowler. 

BEAUTY OF PEACE. When Capt. Bad,- went 
to the Polar regions, in search of Capt. Ross, he f ;! in 
with a- baud of Esquimaux, v. ho h«d H'ever soon 
a white man. The Chief raise his spear to hurl at the 
stranger's head; but when Capt. Back approached him 
calmly and unarmed, the spear dropped, nr.d the rude 
savage gladly welcomed the br< ther man, who had 
trusted in him. Had Capt. Back adopted the Usui] 
maxim that it is necessary to can y arms in such "emer- 
gencies, he would probably have occasioned his own 
death, and that of his companions. IirUiSh Friend. 



f^P/^ii jPlWISJfiflEJVT. 

The Jackson Pa riot contains an account of the case 
of Eb nezer H. Miller, who, in the fail' of 184$, v 5fc 
convicted of the inarder of a squaw in Kent ConMv in 
this State, and sentenced to be executed. Two days 
befor the sentence was to have been carried imo effect, 
and afier die gallows was erected, his senieBfce of death 
was conYmut u to imprisonment for life in the Sts'e Pris- 
on where he h.td been for nearly three years. His ca- 
.tire innocence of the crime of wnfcb he was convicted 
has been r con»Iy ma'e to Appear, by the dying contes- 
sion of ohc rloyey, who was in company w ith lam at 
the time the alleged murder was cmnmitt. d, and the 



From the Christian Citizen. 
IDOL-VV0R3H/P. 

Although no idol-ccmples with the immo'atcd Lv dies 
of their victims strew., around tlv ir ohars are found 
here and there over put land, I ut temples consecrated to 
the worship of the true G-d may be seen everywhere, 
yet, idols are worshipped in every to*vn and hamlet in 
Christian America. Not that a- y do literally bow down 
before an image himself has made and render it blind ail 
oration and religious liorriage — but worship is of the 
heart; aud supreme lovefiivento any created thing, with 
ihe belief that it can conf r the highest happiness, is 
really spiritual idolatry — which God abhors. The 
heart wili love something st|pcem,ely, and if Jehovah — 
whose perfections are infinite and the cou'emplation of 
and communion with whom elevates the character and 
fills it with noble aims and purpose^ — is not the object, 
some created thing must be, and the knergi s of ihe mind 
will ba debased by a worship uuwortjiy of itself God 
is, a spirit and wiii be worshipped in .spirit. It matters 
hot, therefore, what we profess nor what name we bear, 
nop that we bow down in G id's temple anc?obserpe His 
ordinances — ifsupreme love for Him does not bum con 
stantly on the altar of the hear t purifying the motives 
and the life; constantly inciting to activity and labor in 
.the fulfilment of the "great commission," our names 
will be registered as idolatora. 

The god-* of the ancient Greeks an- said to have num 
be¥ea 20, 000. Ours are ntrmi rous , ic may be, as 
theirs. Many are private idols, and though you ma) 
not see them enshrined in the elegant boudoir or in the 
privacy of the closnt, you may learn /h'i- names by 
iheir con ifi iing influence over the character and life. 

Tin se are borne about in the heart a id carried fre- 
quently into the house of God, and « hile the knee is 
bent before Jehovah tne h art secrStly offers up incense 
at its idol's shrine. It may in truth be said of many as 
of the Samaritans ot o'd; "they feared the Lord and 
served oth u - g >d We have also household a'td nation- 
al gods. Has idolatry in heathehctom ever surpassed in 
profundity the adoration paid b) T all classes of our peo- 
ple to some of our public men? A native of Hindo* stan 



TEMPERANCE. 



A SAMPLE RUM SELLER.— A clerevmaii of 
this village related the foil, wing anecdote last Sal I h 
which several hearers afterwards confirmed. A 
the wife of a poor inebriate, went to a grocery 0" seil 
some raL r s, that she might obtain the means of giving her 
children something to eat. The grocer weighed them 
ou', and found they came to one shilling; then tufhing 
.ohis slate, and finding a charge of nine pence foi three 
glasses of rum against the hoi band, deducted it and paid 
her the remainder, three cents. She besought him to 
think of her half Starved children, but she plead in tein. 

Talk about moral suasion with such men. They 
would take the coins from the eyes of a corpse, if there 
ivere three of them to pay for the last glass which sent 
the victim to his early grave. Stillwater Gazette. 



DELIRIUM. — 'L\ r ever was drunk but once in my 
lite," - .id a fellow in my hearing, "and I'll never be 
drunk again. The street seemed to be very steep, and 
I lifted up my feet at ev -ry step, as if I was getting un 
stairs. Several cart-wheels were making revolutions 
in my brains, and at one time I fancied my head was a 
la go earring and fttrning establishment, the lathes of 
which I wai keeping in motion with my feet. 

I cou'dn't conceive w hat was the reason the town 
had tinned into such an enormous hill, and that it seemed 
o be growing higher and threatened to pitch over mo. 
Stop, stop, says I, and I'll head this old hill >et, or at 
least it shan't head me. I turned to go clown and get 
at the bottom; tell me! if the town didn't turn ri<;ht 
round too, hea ling me all the time. We'I, sure enough 
the ground flew up and struck me in the forehead; as 
s^on as the stars cleared away, I commenced eiimbing 
with my bauds and knees. The next thing that I saw 
w as a brick house coming round a corner, and I believe 
il run rigM over me, for I dont remember any more." 
Adrocate. 



principal witness against Miller on his trial. Hovey I w itnessing would think the gods had come dowwin j 
acknowledged that li • was the guilty person, Ssnd that ! very deed and enshrined themese ves in flesh with full ! 
Miller Was innocent. Upon a re preset tation of these 
facts to Gov. Felch, a pardon was granted to Miller, a 
short time since, and he was set at liberty, and has re- 
turned to his frieiTds in Vermont, w ho are said to be . . ... , , ,,! 
highlv respectable. The case does not afford a very 
conclusive argument in favor of capital punishment. 
Port Huron Obsrver. 

And yet the great mass of those who pWfesS to be- 
fieve in a religio inculcul'ti; the doctrine thaf'nienly- 
nin gujlty pers ns h.ul belter g • unpunished than that 
one innocent man should stili* r," ha*g oh w ith a death- 
grasp to the DEATH PENALTY. When will these 
men cease bringing u,p the rear of reform? The State 
of Michigan has abolished (ke. death penalty, and the 
above case of E. II. Miller will not be very likely to 



assist in a repeal of the law, slum d such an absurd tiling 
he at'em ted. The S ate, should make ample pecun- 
iar, amends to Mr. Miller. 



From the Chronotype. 
THIS WORL £). 

The man who hves in this world and does not wish 
to reform it in almost every respect, mu»t be an awfu; 
■blue dish of skimmed milk. 

Yet there is one point 'uf vie<v in which this world 
is a most excellent one. It is in fact So good that we 
T al y do not feel worthy to live in it. It is a glorious 
World to act well your purl in. There couid not be a 
better. We mean 'by acting your part neH, Oirly dvin<j 
the best you can. We are sorry we ever'despaircd of 
doing that—cor b\ any other feoimgevcr failed to do it. 



Id^/teteember the Convention on the 
second ot June at Aewar-k. 



power to save the. country from approaching ruin. 

Who did not read with fear and trembling God's stern 
rebuke for this sin when the idolized Harrison was cal- 
led from the Presidential chair to the cold' damp tomb! 

A rebuke repeated since, in the defeat and defection 
of those raised by acclamation 'o the highest places of 
trust al?d r> sponiibiltv . Notwithsanding, thousands | 
still look upon ilk; laws of the cheif magistrate an I Con- j 
gress a* far mote binding than th" laws of God; acid in j 
obeying diem set His la»vs at de.fi mco. 

Another idol — a r< lie of barbarism which should 
have beeu buried for- ver beneath the rubbish <of 'he n- 
gos has lately been resuscitated aud h*etd up for wor- 
ship before the American pebple — mhtary alor'j. The ] 
most hellish and the foulest spirit that ever blighted our 
green earth! Hundreds have even now offered them- 
selves victims on this new alter. — For long wean voas 
will the punishment, of this idolatty fall upon mothers 
and widows and children sis they gather an und ;tieir 
desolate hearths and rememb- r the loved and miserably 
lost ones who have fallen its victuns. Would that the 
American Church might rise as one man, and protest a- 
gaiust it,, and wash itself from all participation in this 
sin. 

While we read with surprise and wonder of the hom- 
age paid by the Israelites to the golden calf, immediate 
I y after the the awful rovela'ions of Sinai, and while 
their passage through the red sea and the r deliv. ranee 
from the oppressions of Eg p f w i still fresh in th"ir 
memories — shame and penitence and fear should fill ovr 
hearts, who hnve the bible, with daily inereapmg proofs 
of its authenticity., as we offer up our • hole being and 
ourh-st energies on the alter of fashions fame or mam- 
moil. 



the 



'Tis not enough of faith to talk; 
A man of God with God must walk. 



RAIL ROAD TEMPERANCE SONG. 

Tune "Old Dan Tucker.'" 

Ho! The Car oi Reformation. 

Rides majestic through the Na'ion, 
Bounding on its train the Story, 
Temperance/ a nation's glory. 
Roll it along, R. 11 it along, Roll it a'ong, throng 
nation. 

The Temperance Car of Reformation. 

Men of various Pre lilictio ns, 

Frightened run in all directions, 
Landlords, Squires and Supervisara, 
With thelj tipling taw advisers 

Get out of the way, Reformn*'*^!, 
Await your shameful false poaiiKUg, 



Boards of excise gn2ed astounded, 
- When a* firSl our bell resounded-, 
Frpight trains are coming, tell thoso foxes, 
With your votes and ballot boxes. 

Jump for vour lives, while the hell rin^s, 
Ere the sound your funeral kneil rings. 

SEE the people run to meet us, 

At the depots thousands erect us; 
Quick into the Cars get seated, 
All is ready and completed. 

Put on the steam, all are cryirtg, 
While "no License" flags are flying'. 

This day our Feodom we declare, 

L t every Rum King now beware, 
W" m> an to ciriv • him from his station 
Bv mora' Kid hv T,.'<ral Suasion. 

L.'ok i)\ 1 for the -ars, n^ht legislation. 
Soon will bless our happy Natiop. 
Eezza'.i ITuzzah! right legislation, 
•Soon will bicss -our 'happy Nation 



~tt k ' <TT, T«.r-a 7*n;i i A • 7 



o 



JL 



E. 



i;.52r;p at wobji. 

Does a inpuntain on you fio.yn? . 

ticep a Work : , : 

Yon n.-ay; uoucrmine-it-yet ; 

If you s.aud and thump its base. 
Sony bmj^es you may get. 

Keep at work. 

Does Miss Fortune's face look soqr ? 
.;■ Kerp at works 
She may Btnils again some o her day; 

if yon puil your hair and fret, 
U«st assured s eM have her way. 
Keep at work. 

.Arc you cemured by your frief»& 3 

Keep at \\ ork: 4 

Whether they are *«ms! or r->ht, 
May bfi you mus' bide your lime, 

If for viciory you light. 
Keep > t work. 

If the devil growls" at yon, 

K'^ep at work : 
That's Che best way to r< eist ; 

If you ho d an argi m'entj 
You ma. feel ins iron list. 

Keep at v. ork. 

Are your talents vilified? 

Keep ajt work; 
Greater m m than yon are hnteii; 

It you're, right then g- ! ah« aJ— 
Cj rit will be ajjipreciated. 

Keep at work. 

Evry'tbin;' i* done by' Labor : 

Keep'at worR. 
If v;ni wou d unprove your station : 

'l acy iiavo help from providence 
Who w - rk out there owy salvation. 

k,e.>j at work- 

FltANKUN". 

From the National Era. 

Lavs of Reform. 



E. SNODCRASg, 



f? t » of good cheer ! Work while 'tis day, 

V* huie'er ye find to do, 
llemembering its ni ver vain 

To loOd> a life that's^true ! 

The growth of truth is ever .-low — 

'Twas thus designed to be, 
For an ■.■lit that mortal sight may k^n 

Of the plans ot Deity 

I-iut let not those whose mission is ■ . 

To sow Truth's prec ious seed-, 
Faint, though the (hid be rough and vast, 

Hut onward still proceed. ! 

De-pondehce is a demon foe, 
Whom we shou'd put behind, 

As .Jesus did when Saten strove 
To leinpt his sinless mind ! 

The time has com' 1 for lv ro deedfi! 

Bui if there be but f w 
With courage equal strife, 

The more the work Pure you! . . 

Be, thrn, <>f cheer! Work while 'tis day, 

Whale 'ei ye find to do, 
B'-lieveing it k never vain 

To lead a hfe that's true! 



AXTT-SL.WKRY CONV.'NTIO.Y. 

A Convention of the friends. of Liberty 
throughxiit .New Jersey will be held on 
Wednesday the 2d day of June next, at 1 1 
o'clock A. M , in the 'Free Presbyterian 
Church in the city of Xcwark. 

Business of importncea will come before 
the meeting, and it is desirable that there 
should We a good representation from al! 
pari fc of the Stale. 

\ ■' enrned meet in<js will be held in the 
;f:er iii-oii and evening. 

J. Grimes Chairman of 

Ex. Committee. 



PROSPECTUS 

OF VOLUME IX. FUR 1847, 

OF THE 

AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL ' 
JO II R X A L. 



O. S. FO.VLER, Editor. 



?■■> Mill right, t-.doj.i^itjfsf. its .own sake, is benevo- 
is religion,' !>• Christianity.— lUcri. 



T > reform and perfect Man — to (Jeuelope, bv culture 
the original ftoautifa and capabilites of his nature — is B 
wprk the most ardiipus and exalted that can possihlv 
engage human intellect <>r effort. To d<> this effectual: . 
ho-.M ver, his n tore must be known; and since r-mtr. 
nology and phy^oi.o'Jy imhody his entire, constitu- 
tion, there is bo wa< by which we can so easily beconn 
aequiiinti d with oursel\ es or for w' at occupation i: 
life we are best qualified, as by the aid ofthe-e scien- 
ces. T" !h«-se subjects nnd their various applications, 
will this Journal be devoted. It will present, 

PHRENOLOGY. 

Each number will analjze ore or mere of (he Phren 
o'ogica organs, both singh and iutheir various coinbi 
nations, illustrated, by engravings, showing their loca 
ti'-n. Each number will also contain the Phrenologi- 
oa development :ij>d character of some dislingui-heo 
individual, accompanied, by their likenesses. This do 
qartm" , .t will give just that practical view of Phreno'.o 
gy which is required in order to ful y understand it> 
oroper application.-' 

PHYSIOLOGY. 
To know and obey those laws of lif' and health, un 
folded by these sciences, consiitutes the main basis an* 
uperst ucture of talent, virtue, and happiness. This 
department will aU'o bo iitu> rated by engravings. 
A N 1 M A L MAG N ET 1 S M 
Will rec- ive its due attention; and our reader s- 
w i 1 1 receive through this medium, all tiiat is new, intei 
■ -sting, an-i important . 

WOMAN, 

<l;r character, inluenea sphere, and cousequent duties 
the governme.it al education of children, £jo. — will al- 
so be presented in /his Journal. 

Our field is ipdeeo the world, Physical, Intc'lectual 
and Moral. Humau improvement and happiness we 
shall en 'eavor to promote. These, therefore, who are 
i iter pes ted in the advancement of our race, and would 
ameliorate their condition, may <lo so perhaps more ef- 
f etua'ly by circulating this Journal, than by any o hei 
means; tor it -mI iinhody the principles of all reform. 

This work will be issued "loiuhly, containing thirty 
two or more pages', on good type and p iper, at the ex- 
treme low 

PRICE OF $1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 
Subscriptions should, in a l cases, b*- addressed, pos 
paid, to FOWI ERS & WELLS, 

Phhrnolocical Cauinet, 131 Nassau St. New York. 



BOON-TON WASHINGTON TEMPERANCE 
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY *m«»t«ev.-rv Mo. cav eve. 
nin'g in the Free Church, THOMAS RILEY Pres. 

The Liberty Almanac for 1S47 — Is a pamj lilet 

of 48 closely printed pages prepared with great cue by 
a master hand, and i lusaaled by si yerai engr ivings de- 
signed and i xecuted expressly tor this woik. In c.^- r 
to give the widesi possible circulation to this va iri'vio 
Anti-Sla\ ery document, the who e.-aic price lias L>«er) 
•educed to the following rat s: 

250 copies or upwards at $30 OOper. 1»00Q. Vj^tLi 

100 or 200 copies " 3 50 " 100. 
50cQi.iesfcrS2— 25 for $1,' &p/ ^'^ t *^'*tit4)tmM 

All orders must enclose the Ca^h, and should de.sig-. 
nate the convey ance by which- thev are to be forwarded 

Also, for sale, Rademacher's GmTnan Liberty Aima» 
;iac for 1847; with a large variety of Anti-Slaverj books, 
racts, engravings, 8jc. at the Depository of the Am. 
and For. Anti-Slavery Society, No. 5 Spruce-gt. by 

WILLIAM H ARNED. I 

Q&TUe "AME/?/CAN MIS^I A R \ ," 
is a new name given to the Union Mission- 
ary, which is published at No 5 Spruee 
/Street N. V.. ami is the or«ran of •' e 
American Missionary >i»ciety, or^titii'/e i in 
Sept last at a convention, held in Albany. 
The Society refuses donatjons from Slave- 
liplders. Lewis Tappan of .New York is 
'[ reastirer. 



flcj-THE PRISONER'S FRIEND, •> tlu title of a 
weekly periodical devo'ed to the abolition of Cnj)i;al 
Punishment and the Reformation of ihe Criminal, ] ub- 
li>ft»;d at No. 40 Cornhill, Boston, Ma.ss., by Charles & 
John M. Spear. Terms, one dollar in advance.* 

CHRISTIAN Ii\ V EsTiGATOR^— is Tht- tirte* 
of a small monthly paper by VTTlliaui GocdcW at flofiei 
oye, Ontario Countv i\. Y. al 50 cents per annum. It 
is an excellent paper, ad Mr Go'dell'is abundantly 
pndified to do justice to its name. 

y^sllUVi'hR BATHS«£ij), 
A few shower Paths, ready for immediate use 
for sale low at thisoflisce. Persons knowing the \a ue 
of such articles aie noi \v i 1 liny- io be \\ iihom th. m. 



iiLiANK Diiili'i-'S lor sale at diis Office. 



LIBERTY Minstrel. — A few copies of Clnrk'i l.ib- 
eTty Minstrel for sale at the Office of the Fn tman 
Every singing Abolitionist should have one of these 

hooks. 



THE LIBERTY ALMANAC 
or 1847, for sale at this office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for sale at thia 
office amonjr which are the following. 
Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation, in the West Indies, 
Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol , 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is. 
Life of Granville sharp, 
Jays Inqui y, 

Buxton on the S'avc Trade, 
KankklS Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riois &' Alton Tiials, ' 
Channing on Slavery, kc. 




n 




17D 




BOOJYTON, JUXE 19, 1847. 



no. 24. 



WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHiS GRJMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boor.ton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

TERMS. 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, orfor 12 number* 
10 copies to one address for two dollars. 
All communications must be post paid. 



leges of the M. E. Church unmolested. 

Yours truly, D. H. WHEELER. 

Pomeroy, Feb. 16 



8LAVFRV. 

Fiom The Liberty Press. 

A Horrible Story. 

The following story i* too bad a'mostfor Publication, 
yet th" truth should be told. The writer is a minister of 
the 4 K Church, and gives 1 proper name, so ii it 
U he h. relied in quesion, the reader wil know where 
the responsibility belongs. 

Fo the True Wesleyan. 
"Truth crushed to e*rth, shall rise again — 

The eierna! years of God we hers ; 
E . •rror, *oun4ed, writhes in pain, 
And dies among her worshiper;.." 

Dkai Brother Lek : — A f#w yars since, one of ray 
Bf^Miors. white descending the .Mississippi i river ia a 
fin boat, on jaudin? *; a plaat tion, witnessed a most re- 
voking scene of cruelty, wl ich he reUnd in substance 
at? follows : 

A foftale slave » « at work in a field, whpre she was 



ClifcCXLAtt. 

To the People of the County of Madison: 

The following l'ettej iroui UoctorHarve) 
may be relied on lor iis truthfulness 



He 



corr.fr lied to ke^p it*r infant child, th.** w:>s sick and 
buagty Tft< poor mother was panned at se> ing L*r 
li t ebe sick and * rving, and or» ymg the ho y dic- 
tates via. mother's feelings, she dug two potatoes from 
her master's po'at.* grounJ, and roasted them in a fire 
n«ar «v»ere she labored, aad gave them to her famishing 
infant. 

For this offence she w*o stripped entirely naked, and 
bound >» ith a cord, and beat almost to death ' The nar- 
rator epproathed tfie scene of cmelty, and begged the 
mooster »ith tears to desist, but was as wend only 
with bitter cu'ses. -He com iimed to heal her in the 
lit st cruel manner, cutting her back, limbs, aud breasts, 
v itn his laShes, until her milk from her breasts mingled 
wirh her blood r«'i down to the ground filling little holes 
n av where she g ood. In the -midst of this h^art-ren- 
diog scene, our friend became so excited that he run fu- 
riously on the miserable murderer, and attempted to stop 
him bv for'-e. — His men mow interfered, a <1 bore him 
of? to hi. boat, or hie interfering would have prot a biv 
Cos: him his life. 

Su<. h hell -deserving erueby occurs every day in the 
Slave States. Thous n< s are lashed and beaten on their 
bat kg find ! imbs, until they carry huge scars from child - 
hood to the grave. Y<>t flowing blood and scalding teairn, 
pi'eous groans and imploring looks, move not the steel - 
ed hearts of their oppressors. 

The system that admits such emeltv is tolerated ill 
many of the Chistian churches , (so called.) Minister! • 
sanctify it from the pulpit, and endeavor to support it 
from the Bibl. — while thousands of professors uphold 
it at the ba lot box, and thus continue its existence iby | 
ail these and * ari us other means. 

Now my dear brethren, on with the armor of right- 
eousness, and rush boldly into the battle. We are sma Jl 
besi.le Ama'ek; but "if God be for us, who can be agiL 
ir.st us ? " Truth Is mighty, imd will prevail." 

Tis realiv curious to witness the writ hing6 and con- 
tortions of pro-slavery men and slave-holders in the M. 
E. Church in this part of Ohio.— Although it may sup- 
prise many of the fronds of humanity, it is a fact that 
atav«,hel««rs livtti* ibis free state, aid «njr.y iU j»rivi- 



resides in t he neighborhood of Philadelphia 
and is n worthy man. 'Unit it may do the 
more good, ■ scalfr r it over oin county in a 
hanubul form. What monsters of inhuman- 
ity — what unequalled pirate§ — are slave- 
holders! Buying and selidn^ men, women, 
and children! Tearing from each other 
those bound »og« iher in the closest ami 
dearest relations! Unutterable crimes! 

Gemt Smiih. 

« December 2fith. 1846. 
"Dear Sm, — TVIv self and two others lately vi>ite>' 
the ea-^Urn part of Virgii. u to ?<■ th cheau lai ds n< w 
much talked of in agricultural circles, and there sav 
a slave aucfio:-. Mv friends were not abditionists be 
fore, and pitied my credulity when ] told them the hor- 
rors of slavery; bui - ne we^l iu the ol< Dominion has 
aiid< d two static!' adherent!, to our csose. 1 wish every 
pro-slavery man arid woman at tiie Ivorth could witness 
one Mave auction. 

"We attended a sale el lard and other propertv, near 
Petersburg, and unexpectedly -aw slaves sold at public 
auction The slaves Were told trcv would not be sod, 
and where ro'.eeted in front <•! th< «. ailn* gazii " »a ] r 

M I If 

the as«emhh'd multitude. The lan.i bri g sold, the auc- ' 
lioneer's loud voice wa* h« ard, 'bri> g up th< /ii-; </«■«.'-- 
A th»4e of astonishm-' nt and aflrigbt p .-rsed over their 
faeces, as they scarred fi st at ea< h other, and then at the 
crowd of purchasers, wi ose '{attention wat new directed 
L o them. \\ ben .he horrible truth was revealed t< their 
minds that they were to be sold, and nearest relati ns 
an*l dearect friends parted foiever, the'efiW-t was indes- 
cribably agonizing. W men snatched up their babies 
and ran screaming into the buts. Children h'd behin 
tbie hots, and trees. and iK nif-n stood in mute d'sjiair 

The auctioneer stood on the portico of the house. and 
the men and boys « here ranged in th« \ ard for inspection 
It was announced 'hat no v arrants of soundness were 
gi ve^, and..} urchaaer must examine for themselves. 

A few old men where sold at prices from '»i3,00 to 
25,00, and it wa-; p?inful to see oid men. with hea<d.%. 
whit with years of toil and suffering, stand up to be the 
jests of Liuial tj rants, ani io heat tl em tell • ftb« ir dis- 
eases and wothlessnes-s, fearing they would be bought 
by traders for th- southern market. 

<! A white bou. about IS yea s old was placed upon 
the Maf.d. lbs hair was brown ant- strai^bt , his >ki 
exactly the same hue as other whi : < f-ersun-, anu no 
discoverable trace of nejro featut^ in his courilr: a-r« 

"Some coarse and vulgar jests were passed on his 



as she was rudely pushed back and the door closed . 

The sale v as not for a moment interrupted, and nona 
of that crowd of ruthless tyrants appeard to be in the 
.east degree affected bv the scene. The poer boy, a- 
fraid ro cry before so n>any strangers, who showed no 
sign of sympathy or pity, trembie J ;-nd wiped the tears 
from his cheeks with his sleeve. He v*as se'd for a- 
bout $250. The monsters who tore this child from bis 
mother wonld sell your child ;ind mine if they had the 
power. During the sale, the quarters resounded with 
rie< and lementations 'hat made my het.rr ache. A 
voman was next called by name. — She gave her infant 
one wild . n;Lrace bciore lea\ingit with an old woman 
,tod hastened mechanically to obe\ the call, but stop- 
p< d, threw her arms aloft, sen arned, and was unable to 
move. 

"One. of my companions touch" d my shoulder and 
■ aid, 'com--, let us li ave here I can bear no more.' We 
left the ground. The man who drove our cairiage from. 
Peters! urg had two sons who be longed to the estate- 
small hoys. — He obtained a pr.-mi-e that they should 
not be s Id He was asked if they where his only chil- 
dren. He answered, ali that's 1'. ft of eight. The others 
a«l been sold to th ■ south, and he would never see nor 
hear from them again. 

"As Northern people do not- see such things, they 
should hear of them often enough to keep th* ni awak» 
to the sufferings of the victims of their ind iiterencs. 

Very respectfully, y ur friend, 
ELL WOOD HARVEY." 



THE WAR A WD TKO f E ESGAOEI> 
IN IT. 



A Correspond^ t of the St. L< u>s Republican writes 
om Mexico as foilows respecting the conduct of the 
American soldiers. 

"Let us no longer complain of Mexican barbarity- 
poor, degraded, 'pritst ridden' asshe is. JNoact of in- 
human crueltv, perpetrated by her most desperate rob- 
bers, can excel the work of yesterday, ccirmitted by 
our soldiery. God knows how many of the unarmed 
peasantry have been sacrificed to atone the 
blood of poor Colquitt. The Arkansas Regiment say 
• ot less than thirty have be^n killed. I rode through 
the chap o rah: and found ? number of their dead bod- 
ies, not yet cohl The features, in every instance, 
were composed and tranqirl — King upon their backs, 
eves c'osed, and feet cr. ssed. Yoe would have suppo- 
sed 'hem sleep ng. but for the gcry stream which b*- 
dewed the turf around them. In some instances, after 
f be vital spark had fled, in the overflowing of demoni- 
ac vengeance, the carbine ball dashed out the brains of" 
its clayey victim. 

Death, in all its horrors. I have seen and been farmi. 
iar with from mybovood. and I could not feel the 
dread reality before me until Col. B. and myself r^da 
down 'he 'arroyo.' to where, from the curling sn e v 



color, and $5,00 was bid for him, bu the auctioneer 
said 'that is not enough to begin on lor such a likely 
you> g nigger P Several remarked 'tley would m * 
have him e.s a gift ' — Some said a white nigg-r was 
more trouble than he was worth. 0n< man uaid it was 
wrong to sell white peoj le I askedifit .<as no' wrong 
then to sell black people. He made no tep'y.— B< for* 
he was sold, his mother rushed from ihe bouse u;> n 
the portico, crying in frantic g'ief, 'My son, oh im boy, 
they m ill take away my dear——.' Her voice was lost 



we supposed the women and children of these noot 
eri aturt s were secreted. W<- rod- up. Eeai aud anx- 
iety were deuieied ur:on every countenance — the worn- 
•'i ■ rowded s ound us for protection— and notwitsand~ 
nig they \ ere not more than half a mile from the scene 
of murderous buclhery, they were wholly ignorant of 
what had been go ; r,g on. An old female, who looked 
as though she might be grandmother of the whole, ad- 
vanced to us, and, in the most impiorir.^ manner, asked 
us to send ! ;ack her husband and sons from the camp, 
where they supposed they had all been laken. I old 
them that 1 feared their men bed been killed. They 
goon comprehended my fears, and the - Id v omati asked 
us to lead to the d ad bodi is, and accompanied by two 
little boys of about 10 yeoib ei ago each, we fees ant 



t 



^•Thc- first body we approaci ed, the o'd woman ex-| Whig or a Democrat. One journal (we do not rcollect 
timed was a 'can. tcro'— a doitde- cstar. los oiros vmdre\^hat one, but we have seen it within a week) disclaims 
Dios, cdonde iremosl- i Where are llie others? Moth- 1 all solicitude in relation to his political'partisanship, a..d 
of God! Wi.ere shall we go/' We then led to anoth- 1 is satisfied — perf.-ctly satisfied — with lh<* couvictiun iha» 



•• body — tha' of a man about thirty years of age, who 
as tranquil as though he was in the Sweetest sleep- 
The little boy, impelled by that instinct which seems 
load us into trouble and difficulty ere it is r ad for us 
ttiiistnppecf his companions and was the first to reach 
lie body. He advanced steadily to its side, gazed up- 
i ; the countenance which wis Kalf concealed ben; all: 
he broad brimmed sombrero; folded his hands up'-ri hi 
' cast, and looked with dr. 'amins: earnestness upon' the 
' ioodj victim of ill-timed vengeance. The ht-ving o( 
' s manly little chest, and the silent n»ars stealing from 
dark : j yes and ro' ; i g th^ir <.,, hh ? v. a v ciovrn 
his cheeks, told too elo-ju- ntly that 'he lit it. t Ilex* bad 
't)si a fri'-nd. 3 said f«>h : m in the most soothing tone 
' could cowm n'fl: 'Do you k< ow that men?' To which 
>••! feriliecVBJ mi padre, cabalkro. ['He ism father, 
" r'] — wrfflc-d round the body, ex mined the bulle' 
! :>le' in the side, turned away from us, drew his slee** 1 
cross ' is eyes, and without an audible sob or murmur, 
-t-.trned to the slen where his mother, brothers and si- 
' '•is were to hear the tale of their desoiai ion." 

The Liberty S'andard, from which we copy the above 
■ 'As; ''YYhoev. r ha* did d to : sti^ate and uph d this 

?ecrable War is virtually :i participator in ihe>c muf- 
ti :s & the hundreds like them which have marked with 
hldtia the career of out volunteers in Mexico. Let 

ritiij po.'.der well their responsibility!" 



From the Boston Couiief. 

WORSHIP. 



The prioress of Hero Worship iVntly al?.rmin«r. TV.. 

ar in ivhich we are now engaged has airea-y dii..is-- a 
hiliitary taste for the people, hich tends' to nothing 
hut a corrupuon of morals, and the utic-r exlincliou 01 

very truly patriotic sentiment; for the spirit which ex 
:.i s in the success of an aggressive war has uo affioil 
v '. ith the spirit of patriotism. The latter seeks to niak 
I i sn happy, by teaching them babbits of mdus"ry, th. 
.irti of puace, & the refinements of iiterature,phi!osophv 
and mCiafs; the former brutaliscs a nation, and "bi- 1 
i'efiance to the unarmed philosopher and politician, who 
bring into the tieid Truth without a spear, an Aigumen 
unback d by artilery." 

Ail wars beget Heroes, as naturally (and almost a- 
suddenly) as lightning produces thunder; and the mor. 

'.cii and science in the work of butcher* the greater th< 
'Ie.ro, atid the sooner he arrives at the zenith of glof] 
Thus General Zachary Taylor, who twelve months ate 
Was not half so much celebrated as "General Ton; 
Thumb," has become ihe idol of a host of worshippers 
whose name is Legion. The public n.ind is essential 
(we hope not thourghly) debauched with the doctrine^ 
Hero Worship. "I lie Pr ss lends its aid in the dis- 
semination ol these pernicious doctrines &. the establish- 
ment of a system of the most 1 abominable despotism that 
can be inflicted on a natio. . Some of the most influ 
entia) journals have the name of this Her- in Donbh 
Pica capitals at the head of their editorial columns as a 
candidate for the presidency, as if success in murdering 
men, women and children, by hundreds and th usands 
where ail that is desired to ive a claim to the sutfera 
ges of a people w ho boast of their magnanimity & love 
'of justice. Editors w hose moral sensibilities are in con- 
vulsions if they see an pdvertisenaeBl showing v» here 
wine is fir sale, snatch up with eagernes's every para, 
"ran that glorifies conduct or character of this militiar 
tehiefhun, and present ii as a luscious morsel 10 their 
headers. Political principles, and opinions iu regard to 
subjects hitherto thought to be of the most importanci 
to the ; osperity of the country, ar' 1 no longer thought 
•of, and Whigs and Democrat seem to lia\e burried all 
their ancient animosities, and to vte With each oth. r in 



General Zachary Taylor is a gpe/t and good man! 
The facts on which this conviction is founded were not 
stated, ncr do we recolect (hat the editor alluded toany 
particular ;ids that constitute "a tjreat&nd good man," 
But with the tine iero worshiper that is no importance, 
ff the alter is well furnished wkh human flesh for sacra- 
fioe, gnu thousands ot h arts have be- n pie re- d to sup- 
ply a generous hbaii- n of human blood, the adorning 
throng require no other stimulant to their devotion. 

To say nothing of the elements o( greatness, a quality 
which as*a propriaiely be'ongs to a devil as to a saint 
a d a t Trd 1 i ich m -y be used to signify the dark' si of 
crimes as w ell as the brigh est of virtues — we have vet 
to learn wherein consists the goodness «>f General Taylor^ 
and we • cerely hope hat some of his worshippers toil 
ere long, have the goodness to • or'raj those features in 
his character, and >ecite some of those acts of his, 
which giv» him a claim to hi. a iy. . Wf are the more 
anxious <> this po nt, because wu shou d be glad, for 
once ib our life, to be one ot a political majority, and 
at the same time sure that we are right. On'y saiisfy 
us that G. Deral Taylor is truly deserving of the approba- 
tion of the wise, the humane, and the patriotic, and we 
will hearily uni e in everything adapted to do honor to 
h:s virtues, although we will give no pledge to become 
a worshiper in the temple of his fame, or 

4, Tu crop* h pregnant hinges of the knee^ 
W ere thrift ma. follow fawning.'' 
Wo are aware th'a it is s.-id by the worshippers, that 
G M o Taylor d- es no more than fulfil his duty to h .* 
country hj p "secuting the w r wfh a:l the power of 
lis arm and intellect. He has been bred a soldier, 
in th service of his country, and he must not disobey 
he orders of the Preside*. There is no other alter- 
native; he must obey or resign. Miserable apology — 
contemptibh • bterfuge. Let him resign his commis- 
sion. H<- has him self pr-nounefd t'.e war unnecessary, ■ 
.inju-tand cruel. He used langu*»e similar to this, if 
r. ii,- rvb r rigtrtl , in Ids let, er to K nry C'lstv, an- 
■ ii. - in? the los of hi«' so i. Ha there^prooounced his 
own condemnation. If he- atlmits the war utireccs- 
,rv, unjust andc-uel, be can ot escape from the con- 
•equenc s bf the admi sion — amely, thai he who vol- 
untarily carries it on succossfuily, is guilty ofgratajtouS 
injustice a - d rrueity- 

I these remarks we have used the word Hero, with 
ts dsravatives. according to its present popular acception. 
We are aware that another and ar different idea is 
nnected he word. Had Genera Taylor felt any 
partiality for th' character of a hero in that other and 
nobler setae?-, be wouh haye thrown his commision in 
he face of ihe President, the moment he received an 
■rder to pass ov r the boundary of the United Staie> 
with an invading army. Had he done so, ih ;ill proba- 
bility their would have been no war — the difficulties 
with Mt-xico would ha$ been amicably adjusted — 
thousahds'of innocent lives would l ave been saved — 
millions of dollars micrht have remained in 
the public tressury, or in the hands of individuals, to be 
used in constructing cabals and railroads, or employed 
in promo'ina: the ar-s which improve and emblemish so- 
ciety — and our heroic Representative* in Conjress 
would have lost the ot>portunity of dishonoring them- 
selves by voting supp ies to "carry on a war which the 
have ark wli d^ed to be unrigh nous, cruel, and unnec- 
essary. He would t en have proved himself a true and 
legitimate Hero, and the tfise and virtnous of all na- 
tions and aires w it Id have combined 'to do him rever- 
nace — a' , and «hen the portals of immortality should 
be open to receive cltsi mhodiea spirit, may we not be- 
lieve that all Hi aven would echo with the shout, The 
Hkro Coji£s! , 



waste c<ii<i destroy their g.ieds, burn their 
house* and lay deflate their lands; but if 
the Mexicans attack these murderous in- 
vaders of their peace, and take anv of their 
goods, they ace called "n urderers," "rob- 
bers," "satage wretches"&c , and if any of 
them are taken prisoners, though it be for 
fighting in defence of their own homes, the 
"wretches" lure 'instantly shot down." 
''Oh consistency, what a jewel thou art," 

#$=.Out of about 1000 ot the Mississippi Volunteers, 
only 248 are left. Three lourths haying been kill, a in 
battle or died by sicki ess a. d exposure iD M«xico. 

Who are responsible tor all this- We answer, a'l 

Lho.se who do not lift up iheir if oices lmd aicd siiong, 
against the most infamous crusi.de now ctrri.ii i n by 
this nation ag acst the peace uim ibertiesot Mexico 



fir^THE POOH MAiV'is CA.\DIBAT£^ 
•ome of the Whig papers c?.ll Gen T«.ylor ..the 
"poor man's can iidatr " TL'r l, c ■ t^.nl\ very prop- 
er, for it cahnoL be doubted tha; he is the poor man's 
friend. It is sab!- that he has about 200 poor men on 
his plantation in Mississippi, so poor that the\ are said 
not even to own themselves. Gen. Taytor undoubted- 
ly has them fed so as to keep them in tolerable work- 
ing order. He is also the poor Indian's frimd, being 
the first man that suggested the humane idea of h 'ping 
the poor Indians out out of the F orid« swamps by 
importing bloodhounds from Cnla for :ha' r.clh pur- 
pose. Verily, he should have the votes of ail "poor 
men." 



$g»tt was reported that Gen. Soott permitted the wo- 
men and children, vviih other non-combatants io leave 
Vera Giuz before be bombardment was bejiun, but 
that i.s denied by ih"e Q< • rnor of that citj and isooubt- 
; ess incorrect* They earnestly beaoiigh ! m lo b- al- 
io ved to go ou',but were forbidden. ■* would 1 ot 
have the guilt of that wanton butchery ot nearly 1000 
helpless people shut up in that city on our soul for the 
wealth of the continent. It was most horrid barbarity 
n the service of slavery ^ Liberty Standard. 



Slavery, War and r.icentiovsness. — A slaveholder 
in JKew Orleans boasts that while the Mississippi Vol- 
unteprs w re in that city, he realized a profit . f§750 
from three female slaves who where compelled to re- 
ceive their pi ivat. visits! Such facts as these should 
make ears of virtuous and christian women tingle.' Ib. 



It is the highest glory for* Ainericans to 
a how contest, to ttecide whether me Hero is actually a, piuuuer Aiexico uud luurdur htt ulceus, 



u Th9 Inglorious^ War. — We notice a rnther remark- 
able passage in one of the letters of Col. P M. ihitier, 
of the South Carolina Regiment of Volunteers, now on 
service with Gen. Scott.. — remarkable, we mean, con- 
sidering the source whence it comes. In a letter to 
Gov. Iohnson, written after the capture of Vera Cruz, 
he sa s.'t— 

' Tne contest is umqual, and the. service an INGLO~ 
RlOf 'S one. The universal voice of the Am y, iVi/cy 
vr.d Volunteers, is for terminating this conl est \ and Peace 
aonldbe to them most welcome weits." — Lib. Standard. 



^^One of the Mexican Stales is t ailed 
Ztualccus, which in Spanish is pro- 
nounced Zuchy take us! This is just what 
some of ihe w hig party are sayiug to Gcn- 
eralTa jlor! \Lib. Advocate. 

An officer on the eve of battle, seeing 
one of his soldiers on his knees praying, 
asked him if he was afraid. 

''Oh, no!" answered the soldier. "I was 
only praying that the enemy's shot might 
be distiibuied like prze /rto/tcy,cuifcfly auioitg 
lite oluce^s»! ,, 



* 



0 



THE JEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

BOOiNTOIs, JUlNE iy 1847. 



ts dead to die claims of man, cannot be alive to 
glands of God : and religion cannot flourish on 
nd where humanit withers. Keep. 



b devoted more apace than common in our little 
_|mon'h to the Mexican War and th participa- 
nefarious business, but no more than should 
■ war we consider, al! things t >k»i imo consid- 
mp mnit infamous &at is recorded upon tin 
fed- , a of the world's idstory. And the 
" >ii he *lle of the peou'e of this nation. We 
fee- ,-jors. 

Bte. of *is nati n, calling fhemselves the 
tiiui, the uj' st enhghti ntd, n fii ed and duvo- 
. ;#nity of ;iny in the world; making the 
ptd the loftiest profe>sions 01 regard for human 



a "mouei re, 



'gaged 



aggres 



an ucpr • -ed inv»don of, a sister repub- 



idering her citiz- ns, desiroyi-g h-r villages, and 
• kj-owrledg d for the so>e purpose of ex'tend- 
a of American slavery, "th< vilest that ever 
I sun;" betrays a complicas ion of meanness, 
Iness and hypocrisy, that has never before been 
p- to the world. What betrays if possible a still 
r d e oi'hvpocrisy and moral depravity, here 
ople of sis nation, from j\lti ; ne to Texas, ex 
si the bloody butcheries committed by our 
fin Mexico, cro n g with laurls those men who 
fcthe most Succesful in spreading desolation a- 
ne unoffending- Mexicans, and now huzzahing 
f man for the Presidency, who has only been 
■ into notice by his success in spilling human 
t hands are dripping with I uman gore. 

Hose only reccommendatii.no are, that he is a 
Id der, r.fcd a successful fighter in the cause ot 
py. And i I , inc redible as it may appear, the 
lywicivc d <»re not alone engaged in this detestable 
■r. Christians, so called, thousands of the profes- 
fcond'.ipers of the Cod of Peace and Love, are bow- 
■wr «. d worshiping at this blood) shrine. 

are among those who shout with the loud- 
m » ion.-. oT!-r the blood . business and in -he pros- 
■ tiits succuessful elevation >>f one of its bloody in 
•enti. to the presidential chair. Away with such 
Bible pretensions to chsistianitv. It is all a sham. 
m nm believe t'c religion of Jesus Christ is of so 
liable, import, that men can believe in it, and then 
mm th i - heaven daring and God-defying wicked- 
lof '• • n\ whether e censid -r it in its ori-tin or 
■tontinunace. We- firmly believe :hat ever) 
m core- » nt man will give his testimony against 
Ik", a^ participators in it, unri apologists for il us- 
lifi aLar.iionui; and the American troops leave Mex- 

; {&■ FOURTH of JULY ! 

pVding to public not'ee, a mpetirg of the citizens 
■nton was helrion Saturdav the 12thinst on the 
ft near the Flag Staff, to take into consid; -ration 
pbject of a celebratior of the Anniversary of free- 



jt^r-THE STATE CONVENTION^ This Con- 
vention was held in Newark on the second oi June, ac- 
cording to previous notice. 

The Seere ary not having furnished us with the min- 
utes ■■{ the proccedh gs, we can • n y state ver) briefly, 
the substance of what was • one there. 

The Convention was organized by app inting Enoch 
Middleton of Crosswicks Chair an, and Ainv-n Und'-r- 
■ ood of Newark, Secretar . 

The meetings in the morning and afternoon, were 
taken with interesting discussions of a business te- ure. 

The employment of an a; ent and the means of pay- 
ing were tak n into full consideration. Mr. ISorris 
Day, we believ>- a congregational Minister frrtm Ver 
mont, was pn sent, suitably recommended for the ngei- 
ev, and the Convention voted to employ him for one 
♦ear, the National Society having piedged one ha f ( t 
the expense. 

Mr. Diy addressed the Citizens in the evteningj an. 
'be Convention adjourned. 

' Since the Convention, Mr. D^y has be-n spe- ding 
a few days in boon'on. and has addf« sged the citiz ns 
six times. He hiM> left excellent impressions upon the 

minds of the peop e with regard to his qualifications as 
an anti slavery Lecturer. He certainly has u very hap 
py faculty of presenung truth so as to f stea it upon th' 
hearts and consciences of those who hear it. 

He leff hero for Madison , here h< has been lectur 
ing, we hear, much to th» satisf ctioi' ot t e people. 

This week be is spend! g at Caldwell, and after a 
few weeks, say three oi four, which he xpecis to hp. ... 
m Morris •.id Fssex Counties, bt wi I be iead> to U 
bor in oth r p rts of the. Stare, probably eonfmeneing 
at Paterson, th*nce throu h West Milford, Newfound 
iand, D» ckertown, H-a^chvil e, Ac. 

We feel assured that Mr. Dfiv will, with the ho* <y 
co-operation of the friend;- of libtrt- , ate mpi ; .-l nUfch 
go. d; we hope and trust they will Uk hold and • &i 
meetings, and get th» pe< pit put to tb-m. Le k n >. ih 
time of he agent, be spent it • ing for meetibg^ ; t. 
appointed -and t e people I ft to contt om wii out ac- 
tive effort to make them taown. 

Mr. Day is authorized to ;v» .> cor>tTihu on* fi 
pavhig the expens° of the- slave suit n-, w in i* • v. « 
of •■rors of this Slat: . and we ir-st h- l.'ieti s i>v r 



buying and selling of men .'he prostitution of women 
'le stealing of children, ai.cf the'ii'ffe'r ^tlusion of mill* 
ions of our conntrynji n trom the benefits of moral and 
religious teaching. 

Let it be known that our opposition to slavery is not 
the impuls of a moment — a mere spasm of benevolence; 
but a well s. tiled conviction, deep as <he foundations of 
our reiigiou fuith, of ti;e utter sinfulness of the system, 
and our duty to ppose it. 

\V e are ot Abolitionists from any special dislike to 
to the slaveholder, but because duty to God leads us to 
oppose this wr mg, ard piead for its victims. Love of 
our country, staggering uuder the weight of this [right- 
ful in ubus, in uces us to labor for its removal. The 



of 
person 



common hum miry, 
of the slave 



outr 

by 



in 



cruelty 



d> radation, and in the master by the 



'he 
and 

deyelqpem«»iit of his worst passions, consequent imon 
he tiss < i absolute power over the life and will of 
■! , fi llov t»ah all <h n: nd of us increasing effort lor the 

overthrow of slavery. 

With the h pc- that yoor labor will hasten the "gooi 

time coming," 

Lam as erer, 

thy friend for truth and freedotn, 
B. Rush Flumly. 



*here will feel the impor-tance of gif ing a iittl- tov • : 
discharging this bill, which should be done wunoi; 
delay, 



feorge W. Esten was appointed chairman, and F. 
p Secretary, and after sonde < iscusicn, it was Re- 
|d, that, 

the Fourth of July comes this vear on Sunday , 
rill dispense with h regular celebration, and sub- 
b a free, public, Pic Nic in thegro^e on Monday 
loon he 5th < f July and that all the citizens be 
;d to participate. 

ommi'tee was then appointed to procure go d 
i and spi akers for the occaston. The meetin"- 
ke place at half past one o 1 clock, in the afternoon, 
excellent add <-esi6eff me expected to be made on 



The folloVsrig le'ter, add:t— tt; • 
Editor, w;i- read • it>b CoQve&iiuii on th 
second iosft at [Vowak. 

Trenton 6th. Month, 1st., 1E47. 

Respected Friend 

J. Grimes, 

As circumstances be 
yond my control, will deprive me ot the pleasure ol i>id 
ticipaiing in the mee:ii % cmorrow. I cannot *!cv th< 
Opportunity to pa> witf . ut exprt ssine « hope, that you 
will have a good ga-» ring of the pepph . a d maw> an 
arnest word spoken, that "tht y more forward" in this 
great reform. 

While the "Church" is recnant to k's duly, and tb( 
State is falsi* >o its trust; whi e the lal'ei is dhtecling all 
its energies to the prosecution of a nefarious war ior l .e 
extension and perp' tuation oi slaver) , i d ih< foimei 
is pray in^ tor Us success, and utteriBi. beuedi« lions i.pon 
its bloody triumph; there is all the metre need that Abo- 
litionis.;s re-c'ouble their ex. r.iotis, to disseminate the -I past year 
truth, and by it correct the public sentiment, and lhu> 
remove the evil. 

While it shall be clearly understood, that it is not a 
gainst Christianity or good government i hat -e war- 
let it b pr claimed with equal distinciness, that w- 
sr.all never cease io laber for the suhveision of ha 1 po- I { 
li'ica ; fabric, which makes slavery iv coiner stone; & 
for iuo ovurliffow oi ihnx ,C.,uich which iauttious xh 



One of the Very I>e«t — Catching « 
*?• <* . tiy. — i f>t t fd.'t y moi'iiiitg <is flu om- 

h iron. Kllko'tl'ts Mills, 13 miles distant 

u <s outing to the city, the driver, soon 
after starlet tg ttn his trip, observed a< olored 
tnaii, with a bundle over his shoulder, epon 
lite r< ■•id and acting m a manner to e> t ;te 
suspicion; on coming up u n it hint the (mini- 
bus «t.as stopped, and the compliments of 
t)ie d-^y interchaug^d; upon inquiry, how- 
ever, relative to the freedom of the colored 
man, his answers where so vague and un- 
satisfactory that the driver was soon cc>n- 
imted tliat lie was a runaway, and accor- 
ditigly took him upon .the seat, in spite of 
si me remonstrance* on tliep.trt of the ne- 
gro against the operation. Upon arriving 
in hi t-'tv the prize was lak<m to ihe office 
..f Jit tice Wright, when suddenly the ne- 
gr< -proved to be a quite smart, intelligent 
chap; produced his free-papers on the first 
suggestion, named a number of gentleman 
in ihe city who, he alleged, knew him well 
said he had been out to the Mills to see his 
friends, and e was really very much oh- 
; : (i to the gen»lem;ui of the ominibtts for 
htsiidt home ut the omiuihus was not 
tt'^ he thrown off so. and occordingly de- 
ftiaded hie three hv;es '-No, no." said the 
negro, "yow made me ride for your gralify- 
catiotv aiid ? BhaH refuse to pay for my own." 
Ihe eause pvfis a plain one, and the ornhi* 
hacked dnt a little worse for the enter- 
piise. JSalL i$u,n 



How to reconcile an intelligent iove of freedom, and 
a desire to remain in a pro-slavery church, and under 
the picacting of a pro-slavery minis er. 1 know not. 
The duty of leaving .hem appears |0 plain, j have long 
since withdrawn from them. Limes G. bhnaj. 



IC; t is said that about 70.000,0X10 hush* 
i 1 ol B;< lev were used up in the Brewer- 
ies and Usitileries oi Ireland "within the 
'? he best way to feed the star- 
ymg^poor of Ireland would be to put out 
tl esf itita metis lues the never failing sour. 
. es 61 human misery, p rverty, degradation 
and death. 

One of the three Counties of Delaware hove voV 
ted No License. Th othei Couuuws hav* goucfof 
License bf su.uu mtpmxm o».»y« 



From the libert y Bell. 
A TWILIGHT VISION. 

»Y MARIA LOWELL. 

When the s'ealfhy twilight's coming is shadowing 
the room, 

And the chearful fire leaps upward, the brighter 

for the glo m, 
And a sense of all the blessings that God has made 

our own, [shone, 
Seem* clearer to the spirit than when the da flight 

Then in that holy season of thankfulness and prayer, 
The folemn angM-moniiors God stations everywhere; 
Draw back the folded curtains whereon our day 

dreams glow, 
And show behind, the miseries that other hearts 

must know. 

And so, last evening, sitting with dear house-hold 
voices rouud, [sound 
Making their pleasant music, UVre came a dcper 
A voice that called myspiritfrom the fireside faraway, 
T» where a woman & a slave upon her deathbed lay. 

B"fore. her eyes already had passed adr°ad eclipse. 
And her hand gr< ped rou^d for water to wi t her 

fevered lips, 
"They have not left me even one," iu anguished 

tones she said, 
"Of all the children I have borne, to hold my 

dying head. 

"My children always chrered me, they where so 

good and kind, 
But sometimes when I looked at them, a thought 

would cross my mind 
That used to make <he sunshine of Si mmer days 

feel Cold — 

The thought th- dreadful day would come when 
they shou'd all be sold. 

"But I tried hard to forget it, and to think it would 
not be, 

Tor I was everything to ttVm & they were a!l to me. 
And it seemed well high impossible tha: any 
human heart. [apart. 
Was cold euough and harsh enough to Kai us all 

"So they grew up and vorked w ith me under the 

bright sunshine, 
Until I dared to lo .k at chem and think of th- m 

as mine. 

It was not long that on my heart this sense of 
contort lay, [away. 
For very soon they came to take my eldest boy 

"They rang their silver, coin, by coin, under my 

very e , rs, 

It souuded lo.t ler ia their ears than could a moth- 
ers cries : 

Then I gathered all my children, save the lo«t 

one, iu despair, 
As a hi'Q folds iu her chickens when a hawk is in 

the air. 

"They came again, and then again, again and then 
again, 

They bore one off from me each time, those iron 

hearted men, 
Till, of the six that God had given they left <o me 

but one, 

And thou they bade me bow my head and say, 
'His wi!l be done !' 

"They left my youngest, and for her I toiled with 

doubb- strength 
When mister* workiue-hours were through, that 

I might ea> n at length 
Enough to buy her freedom hack, when the sure 

day sh ouid time 
And bring those men to take from me what made 

ay hu> a home. 



" Ten years of toil had passed away (she was but 
six years old 

When ii >htiy folded in my arms 6he saw her 

sister sold;) 

And now she was a woman grown, so active &so gay, 
That light of heart as any bird she sang the livelong day- 

"Ten vears of toil had quickly passed and added to 
our store, 

So that each day the certainty of freedom grew 
still more; 

The price was high, too, I had set, for I'd a 

mother's pride — [hide. 
And yet the beauty of my child I only wished to 

"They came at last, we felt prepared, nay, I felt 
even glad, [h»H 
Th.-?' I could ho'd within my hand the only claim I 
To oil her < aughter,seeing that which, at the hour 
of birth, 

God gave in heaven, was valueless as dust upon 
the earth. 

"They came, and we with trembling hands 

counte the mon^y out — [about, 
B 't master hardly looked at it, and eai.:' turning 
Ten timet the money that lies theie »as ■ aid tor 

her to-i'ight, 
And she must 0 !' Then every (kin-: grew black 

before my sight. 

"Aug 'he vtas gone. an4 from that time I only 

v» l»li-U f r deati : 
Now i' hits »• me, how willingly I breath my 

latvw breath ! 
But thou hasl •••<' m« ii my heart, not leng, Oh 

L<>rd, no 1 - long 
Shall > - - 'be to the swift gad the battle to 

the strong.'" 

I saw r.» more, iny saddened soul returned to 

w enoe it came, 
Less brightly than before my eyes leapt up the 

cheerful flame ; 
And louder it;** hose voices dear 1 heard the 

question sound — 
"Do y» remerabei ^ose ia bends as ye with them 

w«Te bonmt:" 1 
Elmwood, Cambridge, U. S-. 



! I UIIUI1W 7M^ 



31 IS C LLJLANEO US. 



Criminal Statistic* of the Lcarntd Proft$sit>n$. — 
From a statistical document recenty published in the 
Monileur. itrtould ap('»<» that of all the liberal profes- 
sions, medical men furnish the smallest number ot crim- 
inals; the number is iodeed so small, that it has been 
found ; mpos»i.b>e to fix a fractional ratio, as with the 
other classes. Since the yeai 1829, not more than • 
physicians have been tried as n minals at the assizes. 
In the ten }eaia, fromls2y to 1838, there were in the 
arious criminal courts forty-one thousand six hundred 
i nd seventy nin male prison").*, above the age of twen- 
, >. -fiv. years; amon^ the >e were thirty three priests, thir 
«y three lawyers, seventy-five n« taries, sixty-six tip- 
staffs, but not a tingle medical practitioner. 



TRUTH. -Lay down this as a principle, that truth is 
• o the other virtues what vital air is to the human sys- 
tem. The; cannot exist at all without it, and as the 

ody may liv under many di.sea*'>, if supplied w ith 
>ure air for its consumption,* so may chancier survive 
vativ def cts. wh«re there is a rigid attachment to truth 
\il equivocation is falsehood, which consists net in u- 

tig lals*- v» ord-* only, hut in eo-iveying false impres- 
ons, no matter ho v. Randolph. 



"No flocks that range the Vallies free, 

To .slaughter I condemn, 
Taught by the hand that pities me, 

1 learn to pity them." 



BOON TUN WASHINGTON TUMPERANC . 
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY meets every Monday eve- 
ning in the Free Church, THOMAS RILEY Pres. 
STEPHEN GRIMES. Sec. 

Thk Liberty Almanac for 1847 — Is a pamj.hlet 
of 4i> closely printed pages prepared with greai cue by 
a master hand, and illustrated by severai engravings de- 
signed and executed expressly for this work In order 
to give the widest possible circulation to this valuable 
Anti-Slavery document, the wholesale price has been 
■ educed to the following rates: 

250 copies or upwards at $30 00 per 1,000. 

100 or 200 copies " 3 50 « 100. 
50 copies for$2 — 25 for $1, &c. 

All orders must enclose the Ca.-.h, and should desig- 
nate the conveyance by which they are to be forwarded 

Also, for sale, Rademncher's German Liberty Alma- 
nac for 1847; with a large variety of Anti-Siavery buoks, 
rack, engravings, fyc. at the Depository of the Am. 
and For. Anti-Slavery Society, No. 5 Spruce-st. by 
WH LI AM HARNPD. 



fcjr 'l fce "AMFJMCAN MISSIONARY," 
is a nevr name given to the Union ^Jission- 
»tv which is published at No 5 Spruee 
Street N. "V., and is i he organ of > e 
American Missionary (Society, organized in 
"*r|»t last at a contention Held in Alh -nv. 
The Society refuses donations from Slave- 
"rtt.ldej*, Lewis Tappan of New York ia 
'! reasurer. 



f»^THE PRISONER S Y* ».ND, is the title of a 
»*#»Vlv periodical devo'ed to the abni;*jon of Capital 
PuaWvmeM and the Re? >rm:stionof trw Criminal, pub- 
l?sb4d -M No 40 Cornuili, Bns'on. Mass., by Charles « 
John M Spear. Terms, one dollar in advance. 



CHRISTIAN LWWi U«A < / • titt* 
fa small monthly paper by William GoodeHat Hone- 
nye, Ontario County N. Y. a* 50 cents per ant.tim. It 
is an excellent paper, a*;d Mr .GoedeH is abundantly 
•.Mi^hfi'-d to do justice to its name. 



03*&HOW£R BATHS-&f, 
A few shower B^ths, ready for immediate use 
for sale h * • thi»< iice. Persons lftiow ing the value 
of such aiiici«. a.e not wilha,; to be without th> m. 



bLANk O'-.hX-r* for sale at this Office. 



LIBERTY Minstrel. — A few copies of Clark's Lib- 
-nv Minstrel for sale at the Office of the Freemaa 
! • . v singing Abolitionist sho dd have one of these 



Bo >k*. 



for 1H4: 



THE L1BEKTY ALMANAC 
for sale .it this office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for sale at th» 
office among which are the following. 
Memoir of Lovejoy. 
Emancipation in the West Indies, 
AntuSlavery Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is, 
Life of Granville shara, 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Rio's & Alton Trials, 
Channiug on Slavery, h: 







.23 fall and free Discussion, Error shrinks from 'att investigate n . 



Yol. 3 



Bgowtois", September 4, 18477 



?.!fl'J..T- W :. ■ TS-F- 



Mi 



No. 1. 



a nil i m liill J* icjL-- j 



JTEW JERSEY 



FREEH 



j ration started on her forehead, anil assUeliX- 
j ted Tier rati dftq •■vipe'me large drops nw?y, 



4htt*Btf-P#fcilSH]»!r> 'MONTH! V BY 

JOHN GRIMES, EmroB .« : Pnof%E 



The 



of evil ha J alreadv a!- 



Single copy 3 
12 nupibgis^rcr 
5 copies to or 
AilcoaimuHic 

Wfi^esafeT^erv, it oihVd and murder; 
makes widows and orphans by tie thV tupy- 
sand; produces'' Euiis'iuig ; ml 
baffles description; carries wid. 
olation in its train; brutalizes Gcd'V; ima^e; 
kindles into dctnon-'ike activity, lb.- ;■ of fe- 
rocious passions; encourages a recklessness 
of human life; then decides question:* of tight 
fey the power of the strongest. 



From the Pittsburg Journal and Age. 
AN INCIDENT OF WAR. 

It was a few days after the news of Buen'a 
Vista— the very day the mail brought the 
official list of the kule'd and >voundcd — we 
■were seated in the office, reading over those 
with a sad curiosity, seeking out the names 
with which we were with did Ta'iriiliaV. Mc- 
Kee we remember him well — a dashing, oar- 
ing Artillery otneer — he was ia ihe Third 
when we knew him. But he married left 
the service, engaged in business, and at the 
opening of the war resunaid the epaulette as 
Colonel of a Keutuok-y^aluui ■•<•* Regiment 
Brave fellow! — none brave tVJi on that 
bloody field. 

We were sorrowfully ecgag 
thoughts when a young ^cijui 
office. When we say you s 
der thirty. She had : .-ma':'. : • 
— -& beatiful little crfeat.:;, s 
old. Both mother and child, fc 
couid doubt to be their relationship, who cb 
!r3ss'ed 'With 



•\ ih 
"veri the, 
un- 
it-.'} hand 
3e, years 
h v.o one 



mds't, brok?.n herh .art, and we knew that the 
■ el tl}ve must be fittry near one. 
' She had avoided giving us her name, ana 
so stion as we fouad'thelist, appallingly long 
which comprised the casualties of the desig- 
ns'rd corps, we began to read. We did not 
know when we should,, read the fatal name, 
:if at all, and at each individual we looked in- 
quiringly in the woman's face. She, said 
nothing, hcwyyer t foi some time, and wa be- 
g.-\n to hope, that the name was cqt down, 
when we read lL , , . 

'•John , sergeant, tiixca!^ 

Soch a scream it was the wail of a broken 
heart. Only one— an;' then s'i'l _os death 
That cry was' ringing in our cars for a month. 
,We immediately 'fan towards her, but she a- 
rose from her chair, motioned us her thanks*^ Hr>r£; than 
| and wi'hout a word left the office. 

We had read to her the announcement o f her 
husband's death. 

We did not do much service in the office 
that day. 

The next morning, happening down on the 
w v.-f, we saw the woman and her little girl 
going on board the Cincinnati packet. She 
r cognised u<?, and we spoke to her. She 
was crushed completely, She had grov.-n 
twenty year* older; in as many hours. She 
informed us that she had resided with her 
husband in New- York. That she was or- 
iganally from the West, on his corps being 
ordered to Merico, she determined to repair 
to her friends, and await the conclusion of the 
war. She had heard of the battle, and knew 

,tbatj Captain 's battery, was engaged,& on 

her arrival at Pittsburg, had been directed to 
the Journal office for information. She 
arrived the vtry morning after the receipt of 
the list of killed and wounded. 

We. hade her goad bye. She continued 
ber i*Oute to her girlhood's home, now deso- 
late, as was all the world to her; and we to 
.our daily business,a sadder man indeed. 

The little incident recorded above was re- 
called to our ifora'ds on Saturday, by reading 
in a Western paper, the notice of the death of 
"Mrs Sarah /widow of John , 



oi'lfce in'SuMp^B? H 'lifoilfiT^/i^'W:*! \ 
r.iiUioii». os y u^eD'ow.. kerns s— MUihurwwl 
inknla;-cV.<f , ,W a J The ^cr^U j 

'.! then >;a:vcd • .. ;l> .:s. arc SAtP»-^cfC'^ l v 
cause of their povfiiiy, and; (ji'^i. y^.,, ■%;<*■ . 
grasj i/,g ,yi in 4|s blow rcy ejr&>jfc.f? «u *W 

They.ifc»d«dierovei*d hi tfjraiwwiste-bti*": •)(.' 
eaments . at, War, the -f»mpe.\ d ti-otHt*>n 
which for eges-has fed, at tl e vt-iiii of I Ate 
and is now eating cut the subiUtiK^s ivo '.s\b 
siste'uee of their bc>dies and ebuU'. ; :-.t •'!"«.-. •' 
ing them to w?n f , wretcherines^ : A 
less ignorade'e'.". They apjjcal *c v<>u '■ > 
diet this c 4or ; bl" /can '^b:d \Vai , M 
tribunal of Humanity, a. d. enter .L - 
idence of its a^^ alr^ci%sp. p.- *«,'cd < -.- 
(he human rac 1 . aud. »f;ftin iuifs ©t- <v-.- 
and rivers of bleed a;> .U!id the pubis..' : 

ces of.War^et tirely Iroui .;f iioc: >. ; Tt< 
are bloody featBec i i I ti-h, & fot :!.«• it- 
testify. T }*" J lhe pericdici.l batchftties in '• 
human family , th- foliow infr Veeattmbs h • 
been offered Hp ia that God of battles wHiji 
b.ith Christiansen P?ga;:s have wors' i| i d 
with the Fame devotion : 



2ERANCE. 



~ 



served their faatares, were dfSssecTtvitK e<- 
tremi 'jftai^ness'; \$6 afl* th £ Llt'e ^fegimciVs 
of decoration were besto\vf d unon the child 



Loss of life ir. the Jiwish Wars,. 25,000 ,<V< 
By VVars in th-- time of Sesostria. 15,00tL0i}t; 
By those of Semiramis, Cyrus, and 'Alextr 

der, ... ?;|. I ••-<.- : 89,0toACf...- 
By AlexaBdtr'#Succes ois, . 20.f c y: 
Wars pf the twelve. C^rars, 9 30,<JOO.tW 
Roman Wails'fcfffere juh'uf Ca-sarf>O,OO0, ft 3' 
Wars->f theRrma • Empir:-. Tu'V- rn'd ?■? 
aceits, : • f V>'- } - : \ •'Mwl&ifr 
Wars 3 oFSh? It^Vrrrstion, • ^^>\v■'~^^ ' ■ 
Wars of the Middle Ages. at>d n'» - f 
^dei', 1 "•** . * ••»■**•• . • 5?C,-'C ..* 
Tartar and African Wars, • . jyO.or'O nr : 
American Indians deatrc 
iards, ■ . - . • 
Wars of Kapo'.ecn, . 



-d b 



We pist looked over the top of !hepa|)er ? 
to state "these particulars, wRefi having ^jeerf 
directed" to the Clerk, fhe came forward to' 
our d*k '■'< ' • el c* - 

We handed her a chair, and while we rc- 
'deavored as well as we ! could to soothe- her 
very apparent agitation, v/e were somewhat 
at a loss for i'r. fcxistar.'"?. 

After a tew mmutfes conversation, we dis- 
covered the lesson in the f:ci that she was 

a relative of a soldier in Captain -'scorn- 

pany.of artikry. TLi3 corps had been en- 
gaged, and, we remembered, had suffesed 
very- severely. Sh? had bc!i informed that 
the list of killed and wounded had arrived, 
and she had called to hear the intelligence of 
his fate. 

She wished us to rear 1 over i]>p. names. 

We again tool: the paper, nr.i proceeded 
to comply with h*r reone«t. We sh-Jlravr r 
forget the expression of that woman's fe.t- 
tures, as we read. rie; agony was terrible. 
She was not unhandsome; but ber face ]>e- 
ca,me ghastly pp. I 3 , ard h r eye:: looked un- 
uteraWo deBpair, an she fixed them upon the 
child, who was playing wiih a neWspfepdfc^ 
and laughing joyously in its heedless inno* 
er.nci> Her 1 ins were colorless, the nersnr 



a soldier, killed inthe battle of Buena Vista." 
I|t 'wits our acquaintr.r.co.— -there could be 

no pfrtflfce. 

She had grieved herself to death for her 
husband. •''* '" 

x We have often been called upon, on busin- 
ess of a similar nature by the w ives of otliccrs 
"MTd soldier but none of thorn ever left so 
strong; vet so painful an impression trie 
wife of fnearfiller'vman killed at Buena Vista. 



W ABS.fe THEIR CONSEQUENCES. 



EY E. tUBSlTT. 



The ntfwspapef firess has long perpctua« 
te4 ReftiinisCences of War,. seasoned to the 
moist ardent fancy of youth, witli tho gorge- 
ous heroics of patriotism, and poetry, and 
rodaance. j should be exceedingly grateful 
to your courtesy, and you might lay mankind 
ration to that bland equality 
you would occasionally ad- 
mit into your columns some of those Rcmw- 
'(Sccticcs tof'fi'tir calculated to inspire both 
the youngCS-iia.o-f this aniightened age, with 
aniindomitable abhorrence of all that savors)^ 
of ihe spirit, or tends to perpetuate the CX- j a Jr". 



under-^cnie 0 
o'flChrislianif 



Te above is a mere extinct from the bloc::' 
statistics :f <;ionous W«r, one ciiapter in' ti 
annals of violence, crime and misery, dial 
have fol'owed m-thefoi'tprints e,f ttie" G 'i : 
Destroyer. Th j Iocs of «0«i« >M.ijd; 
where human eyes may not read tb€ fist 
| Dick estimates the u v' r "i"-e 
have -perrished ' di:-p.-M - ' 
War/st fourteen thc-jc.au 1 . ;..-7/.*-'"s, ajf 
on-'. fsJiWof thVhiuman race Edmor.d T 



and assuming the ever? go quantity ot '. i i 

in a common size d person, the- «.£ 

teen thcutaud millions would- fiii a *> ■ i-',ai 

lake of more than sspenteen miles in circt •• /<-) - 

ence — ten feet deep ! ia which all the navies 

of the world might float.' _ Supposing these 

slaughtered millions to 'average, each, f ur 

feet in length, if p's.ced ia a !or. ,they w« uld 

reach nearly four hundred and fo:ty-two 

times round the earth, and four times round 

tho sun. ' . Suppose they average one hundred 

and thirty pound < each," then they ^'obM 

weigh 1,820.000,000,000 lbs., fourteen (Ut\'< } 

more than all the Imifcan bcin'c-s row ft , ■■ 
,, , , l. ft: tm ->^f^ 

on tne clobr. 

i i 



jnoran.ee, vie, crime; domestic strife and 
wrd; « r 'tch< dness and utter iuid; murder, 
at wd M'-oft unutieiabli.-' - 



i&POiVTA^'KOtTS COrviilTTSTION OF 

uibj tj • '" u j I* u 

, D: Pe > ; r SchoS -id, in a late address de- 
. -,:-.-f( ; . t". i formation of a Temperance so- 
•»•- l» ' . .'"i.7 p <jf bustard in the dis- 
od .. .- .-v -.i !i he province of Uppf-r • 
'tfc' ::'.-c, g'v. s -,.e i v ili»wing statement of a 
■■i .. £-,: . : a:: < u.s rotrrbusticn, which pc- 
urr<c!.in fcii practtca. , 
It Is v>c:l'eitthehtica f ed, that many habitu- 
' dr'ii!,- --.^ f arw<St spiriw J are brought to 
»ivi t "whfet is called Spontaneous com- 
r 'l'w f on>' Trotter mentione ! several instar.- 
Orte bapp»iied under my own observa- 
. ^ /Wkvas the; esK-etajf a young man, about 
35 ■■; ar old. He had b?en an habitnai drink- 
- ma" j years.. I saw him about nine 
• ' : :c : k si -.he ev\":ing on which it happened. 
H.-. aa tiien as uiuai, not drunk but full cf 
li:-i:or.'" About eieven on tha same evening' 
i » as- talie-.; Jo-Bee kicr. I. found him literal-. 
' ;. r -isi.-d "ftorn tiiq crown of his head to the . 
oje of !. : s fe-'t. He «as found in a black. 
■ p i'hV si t-p .'i-st acroiis the way fronl whe»> 
'."'had L en. The owner all of a sudden, 

i • 7 i . . r:.u Qi iu« * 
lisebver d «T> extensive light in his shop, aa 

hough this; whole building was ia one ger v - 

:' . He ran with the greatest precip- 

*-<»V )'•*: 0&sJ. CO".* S.Val , - 

a- n fiingin*g°Pen tre door discov- 
d ; .: . '-.ndins erect in the midst of :t 
v: •■: ^'.-iv' d ft'lverco'cred blaze, bearing 
'<• •' d if. exactly the appearance or' 
... .. . A - r , br-nfne candle in the midst cf 

'"s CTh 'f'jup-, He seized him by the shoul- 
p°rj and jerked him'to the door; upon which, 
j '■' ilisve was immediately extinguished. 
[Tl ? ri <vH ro fWe in the shop, neither waa 
'. r.. gr, v ^ossitiity cf fire having been cora- 
j m :ui:a'cd to ; hin lVom*aay external source. 

It was purely e rase of of spontaneous ig- 
In't'ph. A general sloughing camfe on, and 
I is flt-ib was cc"=ti:r.»! or removed in tha- 
ssin^-. Ie- vina the bones and a few of the- 

Of 



'a ?u". b : co;'-vT?sels standing. The blcoi 
;r-'w, •!..•'!. a pliied round the heart, &main- 
♦airjed 'he vital spark, until the thirteenth 
, v, 1 •:• he dice, not only the most noisome 
| - ,•>-.-:} a<.d dif.adfjd picture ibatwastv- 
■« to human vipw, hubhis shrieks, 
!: c ' .; lamentatioiis were enough to 
-(iRt 1 a f.Vart Rr da man I. Ho complained of 
■ o -.-.i.j'r.f body, las ffeh was' alV^hc. 

'> eg d he was suSenr/g the torments c-f 
|; - •»• aVd I n: he was just upon ite'thresheid 
antj .•i--J , d Sooii enter its dismal caverns; tti 
in thia frame of mind he gave up the ghost. 
,0 the death of the drunkard! Well may it 
be srdd to bpggp.r all description. I have 
seen oth^V drunkards die, but never in a man- 
ner so afl'c'Ct'ng. They tiHually go offsor.fte- 
'es$ ot.d stupid ps it regards a future stats. 



... 

irr : i) £ 



A highwayman is na much a robber « h n 

crs in a gang as when (jingle; and 



A V:r t;m of IlrM.— Charle3 Morgin; a 
shoVmcfcer, ttving at Newark, drowned, him- 
self in tl^e Passaic river last week. He had 

b 



e xs»r i'»i-t. iv.ii ttiteiuicn todastroy hicir 
■'! .ay'rr.h eh for soine time iuiemper* 
}*auff^ ':': h rn rn Tue.-doy evening 
i'tf* il vTet^e ofh'is wife. He despaired 
'said, ■eibeici? able to resist the temptation 
diii U.-'WhI oght release in suicide.—. 



Stance of that sanguinary incrster. These! a natiou lbat mt *** ™ wat » only a 



JS'aw York ■ Evangelist. 

Two boys receutiy died in Albany frpm 
Xh/i eSjqt cifiplriluoas liquors, adm;aiikr?4; - 
fa them by ucn\t ggggfl; 



THE pbee: " f. 

iwO:;io?;, sept. 4 iS/r? 

TD» tiiJg i P |yV> aV right, for its own sake, 
i, Bcrtvolence,,ii Religion, is Christianity. 

• f «:»>Somc alterations aud improvements in 
cur Office, together with t!.e sickness and 
cbath .cf a beloved Sister, have caused an 
unavoidable delay in the publication of the 
present number of the Freeman. Hereafter 
they w;U be issued regularly abcut the first 
of caifh monfl.. 

(i'J>Wc earnestly solicit a candid perusal oi 
Ad Qgtifik on our last page, signed David 
Hxl^, qa the Mexican war. Let there be 
a genera, moving ca Uiis subject, and the 
vtm wfcu'd csase. 



In 1344 the abolitionists suffered almost 
rveiy- thing in shape, of abuse and persecu- 
tion :'n>ra tae whigs, because they would not 
>:3:.«.? op to the work of electing Henry Clay. 
Tue grounds upon which the whip* claimed 
\hV. vagal ofiiUrty mcn,were principally these 
the reain'ainan'cs of the Tariffand the keeping' 
but of Tkxv. They proclaimed their party 
to be the only party th&t would keep out 
TVxaa, and- protect the manufactruing interests 

"of th| country- They professed to believe 
that the ssUvation of the country depended 
upon their success in these two things. They 
called themselves "the only true Anti Slavery 
party." We believed and said at the time 
that these professions were all a sham, the 
rankest hypoency, and events since prove 
that We did them no injustice. We have go! 
T exar by whig votes, and are pushing on af- 
ier Mexico" — Whigs have voted the means 
of carrying on the untiphtous war in Mexico 
ejid are shouting in exultation over the bloody 
butcheries tlial our troops are committing in 

•that country. Henry Clay's son, Daniel 
Webster's son, and tho sons of other leading 
whigg have gone on to Mexicoto to fight for 
slavery, and Cassins Jiff. Clay has gone to 
r< v\-i in the Halls of Monlezeuma. Henry 
Clay, too, can CoVe! tho ,l honor of killing 
or capturing a Mexican."' Whigs andwhig 
editors every where, are patting forth the 
mo^'i, urg;dt claims for a full share of the glo- 
ry which a corrupt public sentiment attach 
to thii wost infamous war. No part of this 
annexation business and ths prosecution of 
the. War, could have been effected without 
\f!.ig v<Men. So much for their Anti-Texas 
at id Anti-Slavery claims. How is it with 
t'!<-.ir sincerity in reference to the Tariff? 'We 
i,e-c btftj find them now, rallying around a 
ftjan for the BSXt president, whose only claims 
to notice r^sts on, the fact that he can fight 
li*e a (igrjt; for the extension of Slavery but a 
man' whom they believe. t>> be utterly opposed 
»o the tariff policy which the whigs have 
professed to deem of such vital interest to the 
couutry. We have yet to see the first whig 
paper that has asked what the views ofGen. 
T-ij'lor arc in reference to the tariff question 
they asfy- silent, on the subject, what they 
onca thought was so essential to the salvation 
of the country is not worth speaking of, or 
*?nc|ii 'ring into now. G«n. Taylor is not to 
hi questioned on the subject. ' Indeed it is 
bo! 'i'»:iic j that bo is utterly opposed to the 
Whig TruiiTaiid will go with the south on 
that question. To sustain the party is now 
the great k e-nly question. They have 
giv<m up the Tariff to take care of itself ; 
the? hava tor.c for Texas and qo for Mftxico 
when "hey It vow well, that it is all for <x- 
t'r.di'n; tho area of slavery in order to give 
r-I-r* holders the ascendency in our national 
councils that we may be ruled by th»m as 
vc heretofore have been. We ask what is 
theft 1« ft of the whig party that should com- 
tktad tb» telpeet of any hon*s? mind? The* 
of the North have gone ov^r to ihe SiVi'h 
while the Democrats of the North corrupt as 
thsy ha.r* b^n and still are have exhibited 



.',(/. n ■ .■ ->sof regeneration in tefcrsr.<Jfe Jlo' 

? the slave cv.rt'cc, pr.rflculTly in Maine, 
New r!:.rr.- T ire and New York." Hot will 
both go for I'averjr however, uutiil thfe free- 
men of tho N'>rtnlell them by their »o7«, 
that they Will nn longer tolerate "such un- 
faithful servants. 



The liberty league. 

We regret the spirit an;! tone exhibited by 
some i f the liberty papers in reference to 
the liberty League and those engaged in that 
form of anti-slavery effort. Iu.this age of 
'■regression, wo do not expect men, who are 
enquiring how they can do the greatest a- 
mount of good to their fellow men, to stand 
still. We are not at all surprised that some 
true hearted friends of the slave are found 
dissatisfied with the compromising spirit of 
many influential men in the liberty party, 
who begin to|look about to see if there is not 
some surer wcy ot reaching the great end we 
have in view, than to hold on to the Liberty 
party. Some influential liberty men have 
already been found lowering the original 
standard of the party, by going to the Ballot 
box in favor of pro-slavery men of other par- 
parties, unless we are blind there are those 
occupying the front rank of the liberty party 
who betray the samejspirit still 

Thejepithet, "Goodell & Co." and the 
like, are two much |like "Birney & Co," 
8cc. of which liberty men had sr> much reas- 
on to complain as unfair and unbecoming in 
1844. It is perfect nonsense to undertake 
to hold up such men as Smith, Birney, and 
Goodell &c. to scorn and' ridicule. 

They have given the .best evidence of 
'heir true hearteduess in the cause of the 
slave. Gerrit Smith and J. G Birney have 
given practical Anti-Slavery enough to satis- 
fy the-,most'skeptica!, and we weil remember 
when William Goodell was one of the few 
who stood firm and faithful, wielding his 
powerful pen cn the side of right, through 
ihe greatest time of trial and peril the aboli- 
tionists ever endured. Such men are not to 
be cast off with a sneer, they are too strong 
in the affections and confidence of the great 
body of Anti-Slavery p c onlc. We are in fa- 
vor of the National Convention at BuSalo in 
Oct. next; we hope it may be a great and 
glorious meeting of the free people of this 
land, but we do believe if that convention 
has a single eye to the good of the slave 
it will nominate Gerrit Smith for President. 

1st. Because it is tho only way by which 
union can be preserved among the greatbody 
of anti-Slavery men . 

2d. Gerrit Smith has been much talked of 
by liberty men as eminently fit for that office 
and we do not think his nomination by an- 
other party of anti-slavery men disqualifies 
him. 

3d. He has the "one ide-i" so much talked 
of by anti-slavery men as the great essential 
requisite in a candidate for that high office 
>nd those who cast him off because, he has 
"hitched on" as they say some "nonessen- 
tials," will prove to the world that they are 
not true to the "one idea" inasmuch as their 
love for if i3 not as strong as their hatred of 
their "nonessentials" 

4th. 'these "nonessentials" of Gerit Smith 
we believe all point anti-slavery-ward, and 
malfes him more worthy of our confidence 
and support, no one can doubt his strong de- 
votion to the "one idea." 

5th. It would be obeying the grnad ch ar- 
ictrristic impulse of this age by making up- 
ward progress. 

We never supposed the liberty party or- 
iginally was designed to obey the stand still 
poiicy; for that is in reality to go back. 

1 his is :;n age of pr'.gression, and we owe 
allegiance to no party that- repudiates pro- 
gress. The nomination of uny other man 
than Gerrit Smi hat the Buffalo Couveation 
we think will be a virtual veto of all up- 
ward aspirations in the bberty party. Do 
some tnink U would be too humiliating to 
nominate him th.-rc? Let not »ur pride keep 
us 'rom doin^ the best good for lis sluve. 
L'.t u9 be willitif, io humble ourselv' 



£ '-'■)' ' ' -rd impulse of the 

age ; L. . :C. \? cj.t watch- 
word, St we shall secur<? the gretest amount 
of good for '.ho ?'»ve, in the .least possible 
time, and with it a va.^t amount of other <rood 
equally essnnt'tal to human hftppihes*s tbfet is 
inseparably connected with the furtherance 
of the great "one idea." We shall not be 
disappointed if the nominee of the Buffa/o 
Convention should be any other man th|n 
Gerrit Smith, to find him getting fewer 
votes thau the candidate of the Liberty 
Leogue. Let the best good of the slave, 
aud the happiness of the whole human race 
be the ruling impulse of all anti slavery men. 

We have neither time nor space to give 
our views more fully. 



Of 24. 000 Troops on the Rio Grande arid 
near there, 3,010 died or were disabled by 
wounds and sickness and were sent home in 
the space of Eight months. This was be- 
fore the battle of Buena Vista. This is one 
thousand a month. Ttie The mortality has 
been greater since. 



Some of the Liberty Papers 
go for John P. Hale as the next 
candidate for the Presidency. We 
object to this; if he proves to be the 
right sort of man we want him in 
the Senate; if he is not a true man 
we do not want him for President. 



§5- PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
for 1848. — FOWLERS ScWELjLg of 131 
Nassau Street, New York, have published 
and have for sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1S48. Besides the 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U. S., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Martineau,Charie» Dickens, Horace 
Greeiy, -Tho ma Wiidey, Zachary Taylor, 
Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, Tom Thumb 
Dr. Sewall and Stephen Olin, with a brief 
and interesting sketch of the character of 
each, considered in a phrenological point of 
view. 



{(^."There must be something wrong. "^2$ 

When wc think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the findiiig out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist» 
published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, which we' 
earnestly recommend to all those interrested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth . . It should be read 
by every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a hai cents. 

The London Peace Society has addressed 
memorials to ten different governments on the 
subject of the Mex. war, pleading for a speedy 
termination of tha war. James K. Polk and 
Santa Anna hav not been omitted. When 
will the churches of the land make a move 
towards the same object. 

The Free Trade Association of 
Uelgium has called meeting of the 
economists of all the world at a 
general Congress to be held at 
Brussels on the 16 Sept., inst. 

A Petition signed by three mill- 
ions of French people has been 
sent to the Chamber P'eers & Dep- 
uties for the abolition of slavery in 

the Colonies. 

Sweden, it is paid is about to 

.iholish sin. very ia the i»lnnd of 

St. Bartholomew. 



WHAT HAS THE :?0?.TH TC JO 
WITH SLAVERY? 

The- Washington Union of July contain* as 
Adrcrtbefrtdflt for the salc'of two negro m >. 
men by Alexander Hauler, TJ. S. Marrhrl 
for the District, of Columbia, to take place oa 
the 13 July. This sale actually took place, 
and our government pocketed $D30 as the a- 
vails of this sale, which will probably bt 
paid over t<» Gen. Scott oi Taylor, or some 
other of the robbers ofMexico for the exten- 
sion of slavery. The Govornmeut traffics in 
slaves, and then uses the profits of the trade 
in procuring more slave territory; and we of 
north have nothing to do with it, have we? 
Does the government belong exclusively to 
the slaveholders? Are we their slaves? 

Sales like the above are no hew things in 
this land of liberty. Our national officers are 
continually dealing in slaves, catching fugi- 
tives and returning them tn their masters, & 
in various other ways giving their counte- 
nance and aid, directly and indirectly ir> favrir 
of slavery, and that too with the sanction & 
approval of the government. We of tha 
North, caunot shake the guilt of slavery from 
our skirts, until we give all the influence we 
have towards forming a northern pudlic, anti 
slavery sentiment that will sweep slavery out 
of this nation. Let the people of the north, 
unite their eflorts for this purpose, and slave- 
ry must fall. Nothing short of this will ac- 
complish the work. 



DELAWARE and NEW JERSEY. 

Slavery is fast passing away in Delaware. 
It is called one of the slave States, yet thero 
is more genuine, active anti slavery spirit in 
this state than in New Jersey. Its Senators 
in Congress voted for the Wilmot proviso, a- 
gainst the extension of slavery. Anti Slave- 
ry meetings are frequently held in the state 
which are wkII attended and unmolested. 

Most of the - newsqapers strongly advocate 
emancipation and fearlessly hold un the a- 
bomination3 of slavery to public view This 
is vastly more than the whig and democratic 
papers of New Jersey do. 

New Jersey is called a free state. What 
for we know not, unless it is because it is 
north of Mason and Dixon's Line. It has 
several hundred slaves, most of whom are 
likely to die slaves for all we. can sec; and 
there is perhaps not one in forty of the 600' 
churches in the state that can be had toxoid 
anti slavery meetings in, and it is. about the 
same with regard to other public buildings 
The New Jersey Anti-Slavery Society held 
its list annual Meeting in the store loft of a 
friend last winter in Trenton, because no be- 
cause no other place could be had in that city 

We do n"t know but thret ordained cler- 
gymen in the State that are abolitionists, or 
enough so to speak out so that we can tell 
w ho and where they are. 

The whigs are doing all they can to stran- 
gle the spirit of liberty, are shouting for that 
bloody slave holder Gen . Taylor for the pres- 
idency; and the democrats are no better. 

We sometimes feel constrained to cry out 
»o the people of Delaware to come over and 
help us. We hope they will see to it that 
they do not let their slaves come over 
among the New Jersey kidnappers, without 
sufficient instruction. 



SOMETHING LIKE HONESTY 

Prof. M'Clintock, of Dickinson College, 
writes thus in a letter to the Christian Advo- 
cate, nnd Journal on the subject of slavery. 

"M-n (he say ) who ten years ago, walk- 
ed softly as on eggs, when they dartd t"> ap- 
pr a:h tr e si.bic< t at all, and epoke gingerly 
about he "doui< s ic institutions" of the 
South, have now learned to call thirds by 
UVir right names, and to speak out, withre- 
fr .<Vr. 1: -v> of the 'curse ofdwery.* 

I -.. -his ch-iSge been brought 




to pass? L»tt>co-> -■ 
Editors: the Abolition s. i . 
iticel events have done thoi. st v. ■ ut 
ticians would have remain" c! as the were,, 
iut for the stimulus which public opinion re- 
reived from the abob'f'onists. Wrong thej 
ioubtless have be?n >n many lespects; hcad- 
rtrongj fanatical, abusive, Pharasaical, if you 
please— but the? have done ikis thing. They 
have stirred up rm n's minds to contemplate a 
great truth, no m 'iter what evil passions thr-y 
may have stirred up beside. Perhaps this 
ultraism was necessary to give the impulse, 
the energy, the almost reckless daring, and 
the unflagging perseverance, that were ne- 
cessary to so great an enterprise. The evHs 
of the ultraism were many; but they have pas- 
sed, or are rapidiy passing away; the enthu- 
siasm and the perseverance remain, and may 
they remain until the work is done! 



*tftor] Father! 
is said the Cznr fa*. 



If 



negro trader, and cp.rried into captivi 
strange land, where she was sold 



in a 
rgain. 



his nod is for freedom - serfdom will fell quick- We are informed that she is if alive, at this 



lv in Russia. — Louisville Examiner. 



moment in Louisiana." 



OBITUARY. 



LIBERTY" 
NATIONAL CONVENTION. 

To the Liberty Party of the United States: 

The National Corresponding Committee of 
the Presidential election of 1S4S, and deem- 
ing it time ihefaitful friends of Liberty should 
meet to nominate true and tried men as their 
candidates for the offices of President end 
Vice President of the United States, do here 
by call on the members of that party , to meet 
in National Nominating Convention, at the 
city of BUFFALO. N. Y., WEDNS- 
DAY, the 20th day of OCTOBER next, at 
10 o'clock, A. M., to continue in session 
two days. 

Tho vote to be taken by States on the elec- 
toral basis. The mode of casting the vote 
by each State, to be settled by the States sev- 
erally. 

By the National Committee of the Liberty 
party. 

Alvan Stewart, N. Y. 
Joshua Leavitt, Mass. 
Scantiest Hoss, N. J. 
T. Hutchikson; Vt. 
S. Fessenden, Me. 
F. J. Lemoyne, Penn. 
Francis Gillette, Conn. . 



Juvenile Wit.' — A clergyman happen- 
ing to pass a boy weeping bitterly. He halt- 
ed and asked, "What is the matter, my little 
fellow?" 

The boy replied, ''Before, we could hard- 
ly get enough to tat of anythig, and now 
what shall we do, for there is another one 
come .'" 

"Hush thy murmuring, nndjwipe of those 
tears," said Ihft clergyman, "aud remember 
that he never sends mouths without sending 
victuals to put into them.'' 

"I know tbat," said the boy, "but then he 
sends all the mouths to our house, victuals to 
yours."-- National Anti-Slavery Standard. 

Remarkable Pkopefties of Guano. — A 
native of "Down East" describing v. ith char- 
acteristic exaggeration; the remarkable prop- 
erties of Guano, as a promoter of vegetation, 
said, that a few hours after planting cucum- 
ber seeds, the dirt began to fly, and the vines 
came up like a streak; and although he 
started off at the top of his speed , the vines 
overtook and covered^him, and on taking out 
bis knife to cut the "darned things,"Ae found 
a large cucumber gone totted in his pocket. — 
Mail. 





Domestic Peace and Joy, Health, Wealth 
and long Life'. 



.D'"<Vr.n Wednesday Aug< 18, at Pnrsi^ 
pany, aft:r a lonrr continued illness, Catit- 
arinf: Amanda Grimes, aged 29 years. 

Shu died as nh" lived, firm and happy in 
the. truth fh»t unfetters the ?oul and mr-krs- 
fhe spirit free. A few davs before her death 
she spoke o f ?! as a reflection tbat gave her 
great'conr e'r* : rt- thai she bnd not live' in 
ohediepc 'n •'• • ••-•-> riirr-m"nts of a depra*-*' d 
public sentirr'eri For her to perceive and 
understand' a Wofb, however unpopular it 
might be; was to embrace it, to utter it, and 
to put it into practice. "Blessed are the 
pure in hesrt." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Emancipation. 

• The world is waking up. Turkey has ta- 
ken the first step towards the abolition of 
slavery. The Sultan has abolished the slave 
trade, and closed the slave marts at Constan- 
ti noplc. The Pachas of Egypt and of Trip- 
oli, it is believed, will soon follow this ex- 
ample." ' Already has the Bay of Tunis acted. 
This general emancipation will destroy the 
slave traffic in North Africa. 

Wallachia, too, is free.! ..The emancipa- 
tion of the Bohemians belonging to the ele- 
gy, public officers, and State, has been de- 
creed by the Wallachian diet ! This sets 
free fourteen thousand families and sixty 
thousand slave;;. There are yet twelve 
hundred families and, forty-eight thousand 
slaves held by private persons. But a small 
tax has been leved on the emancipated to re- 
deem these bond. All, then, are free.' Pruice 
Bibesco urged forward this universal eman- 
cipation. 

And Uruguay, in South' America, has de- 
clared against alj involuntary servitude. It is 
a great move. The other repulics cannot 
resist the < xamp'e. They will follow it. 

Nor ca- ''despotism withstand the wid* 
world movement. Russia feels it. Prince 
Worohzoff,' Count Protasof, M. KologrivotT, 
have set frre*fh* : r boad. M. Rummin gave 
liberty height !i oasaad s»rfeof both sexes 
whom he owned; he is one of tho wealthiest 
men ia' Russia. These serfs gathered .around 
him;aad iyih >f;n gathered twenty thousand 



Runaway Slaves. — Toe Virginia papers say 
that quite an unusual number of slaves have 
absconded from that State during the past 
few weeks. This seems to be the case, for 
we scarcely open a paper from the Old Do- 
minion, that we do not observe an unusual 
number <>f rewards for a certain species of 
locomotive property, for which of late, there 
s^?oi3 to bo but little security to its posses- 
sor. A Staunton, Va. paper, now before us 
contains advertisements for four or five boys 
(all slaves are boys even if they have arrived 
at the age of -fify,) for whose recovery one 
and two hundred dollars are freely offered. 
It is curious to see the reasons seme of these 
slaveholders give, why their " boys" have 
left them. One Grey, in the paper above 
alluded to says he knows of no cause for 
Sam's elopement, unless it be to get rid of 
servitude, and supposes he will aim for a free 
State. Why, man, to be sure he will, and 
if he misses his "aim" it will only be because 
some pimp of the slave-holders stands in the 
way. Another advertises Adam, and says he 
purchased him in Lousa county, and he may 
make his way there, as his wife is in that 
county. Very likely Adam desired to see 
his wife — it is natural that he should, but 
the great probability is, he has taken pas- 
?age^ on the underground rail road, and is ere 
this out of the hands of his persecutors. — 
Del Co. Rcpub. 



Virginia Freedom.-— It is well known 
that there are laws in Virginia which forbid 
free people of color to emigrate an settle there 
from other States. The Richmond Whig 
not longcince published the following state- 
ment of the operation.-; of these laws in a 
particular case : — 

" Some time during the last summer, a 
colored girl, born free, only fourteen year-* 
old, and a resident of the adjoining town of 
Manchester, paid u visit to a friend in this 
city. Either through choice or necessity, she 
remained ail night this side of the ftvfef, 
without, however, the smallest intention o. 
becoming a resident During the night she 
was arrested by the police* and not having 
her free papers, was lodged in jail. Being 
perfectly ignorant of the law, ;>nd h iving no 
one .to counsel or advise her, the unfortunate 
creature was detained i:i jail 45 days, aud 
then by order. of the Coujt,sp d s,.rj«:l lees: 

,ir«o „„1,1 ft,- iL- !_ I-.,' 1 _f IE 



The Washington Temperance Benevolent 
Society ofBoonton, after a few months relax- 
ation, met in the Free Church on Monday 
23 ult., and resolved to continue their meet- 
ings regularly every monday evening for the 
future. The meeting was well addressed 
by Mr. E. Denman of Patterson who de- 
serves credit for his zeal and faithfulness in 
the cause of Temperance, a3 well ;is his a- 
bility to do good. 

He also addressed the citizens of Partip- 
pany on Tuesday and Wednsday evenings 
and spoke again in Boonton on Thursday 
evening. He is a reformed roan, knows all 
about the miseries of intemperance, under- 
stands the' wily arts of the rumselier, by 
which he filches out of thepockets of the poor 
their hard earnings, makes their wives wid- 
ows; their children orphans; and fits them 
for all stations from the poor house to the 
gallows inclusive, and therefore speaks from 
experience. He should be encouraged every 
where. Such men have accomplished great 
good in our land, and would accomplish much 
more than they do, were they not so often 
repulsed by the cold hearted, selfish aristo- 
cratic D. D.'s of the land who with few k ex- 
ceptions to are always throwing obstacles in 
the way of reform; who oppose every thin* 
that has a tendency to elevate the poor labor- 
ing man upon the great platform of human 
equality, which regards none as superiors, 
none as inferiors, but all one great, equal, n- 
niversal brotherhood. 



Communicated for the Freeman. 
DIED, in the city of Newark, N. J., Rev. 
Orange Scoft, on the 31 July last, after a 
long illnef.i. He had been a very prominent 
minister of the M. E. Church, lie engaged 
in the Anti Slavery movement at a very ear- 
ly period of its history, and distinguished 
himself as an eloquent Speaker and able Ed- 
itor. He was President of the Utica Con- 
vention which consisted of an+i slavery min- 
isters and members from the M. E. Church, 
and which resulted in the organization »f4he 
Wesjcyan Methodist Connection, ar.ti slavery 
in its character, and republican in its gov- 
ernment. 

He started, owned and edited the "Truo 
Wesleyan;" placed itupon a firm basis with- 
about 3000 subscribers, then sold out to the 
Connection, was appointed book Agent, and 
has traveled extensively through the free 
States to establish an anti-slavery Book Con- 
cern, that the community at large might ha 
supplied with anfi-slavery reading. Ko 
was very successful in his efforts, although' 
m prosecuting this great undertaking, he sac- 
rificed health and life. 

The miter believes that the auti^'avery 
Book Concern, established mainly by O. 
Scot<, will flourish and bless the present and 
coming generations, and prove a mighty aux- 
iliary in overthrowing slavery and pro-slave- 
ry institutions, so that it may be said, "hi 
being dead yet speaketh." 

The sweet remembrance of the just. 

Shall flourish when he sleeps in dust.' 
• Mr. Scott was a good man, liberal mind- 
ed, and an able preacher. He dii-d in greet 
peace. He rests from his labor and his work* 
follow him. 

Booutou Aug., 18,47. 

A. Moras. 



The Pougheepseie Blacksmith is now on 
a tour through thi* State with his large. t«'nt 
which will hold it is said about 3,000 people 
•ecturinj? on temperance He- has Iv-eti at 
Paterson, Newark Or.-ing? and Morristown. 
May he accomplish much for the cause. 



Ic December nr.xt, the License question 
is to be submitted to the 
people of New Jersey. It i's high time the 
people of this State w»fc moving On the 
subject. The vote is to be sepernte from 
all otheT questions, and we hbpft'-the temper- 
ance people will not be sleeping on their 
posts. W-ake up, then, let meetings be 
held every where, again and a^aiti some good 
eo doubt will be accomplished if we only find 
out by it that saccess in this, is not all that 
is n"ces8ary. Let us make common cause 
against n common enemy, and not let the 
rumsel'ers have fiV satisfaction of shouting 
over'W defeat. 

Citizens of Boonton, don't for get fh" 
meetings on Monday evenings. 



A T . mpera:ce meeting will' be he'd . 
sunday afternoon at 3 o'clock, b September 
in the grove near Peter G. Vandcrhoo'Ps ' in 



ANOTHER FAITHFUL MAN 
GONE. 

Amos A. Phelps died on Thursday 20th 
Juiv at Rpxbury, Mass. Mr. Phelp? bag 
long been afei:hfal, sclf-saoriftsing and pow- 
erful laborer in the anti slavery field. 
When the firm and true frieods of the opprss- 
ed and persecuted of the earth, were few in 
number, he was among thrm exerting all the 
powers of his body and mind in their behalf. 
There is no doubt he shortened his days on 
ear'a by his untiring zea! for the slave. He 
will long be remembered as one of the good 
.in I true men of this age. He was buried at 
Mount Auburn, and has left a wife and thr.ie 
children. 



Vamty and Indifference. — Self 
conceit and indifference are un- 
friendly in an equal degree to the 

atta imuent of knowledge, or the 
nation of ;>n amiable '.character. 
IMie vanity of excelling in pursuits 
Where exellence does not imply 
rnerit. has been the ruin of manv.a 

; .id 

v -nittr man. I should,, therefore,, 
be ton !er apprehensions for ayotint; 
lelloiv who danced uncommonly 
well, and expect more hereafter 



w 



a. 



From fne "National Anti-Slavery Standard. 

iS«00eatei§» fL^wc^ ,fy< W» ;"icor<& of Jar. 

PY JAMES STILUtfA*. 

I tremble for my country, 

i know that God is just, 
Arid^hough His vengeance long delays. 

iDescend at last it must ; 
The cry o? the oppressed ascend:s; 

The hopeless sufferers cry, 
And the voice of brood and -guilt is gone 

Up to- the throne on high. 

I tremble, for my country, 

af;h8*r itetltttkiiiff ckcini, [shriek 
TK#Hv1iip*s' dtflb strobe, .the' piercing 

* OtPfc**nis»?n£ .pain : -> : 
The' groan- of ••deep- despair that bursts 

.v#foflS|ftt&!es» wttBoui sever ■ •" 



T^tf^fcirifcligr..glGii.ou3 banner with 
.-A fcj^l^ii'i.daraftiin^biotj. , v _ , 

That record of her shame, which stands 
^ : To*«^ry-ey« confer ..... 

Ami makes her to.a sneering world, 
«,;A by-word and a jest. . 

£frv^nbje for my country, ' 
^$hc.bjoasts herself to be, 
Tip* refuge of the oppress'd, and heme 

Of those who would be free; 
Blasts bet religion and 'her laws, 
" Yet wickedly retains 
T'fciea Miliidri of heV children, bound 
In Slavery's heaviest icbfcibs'. 

I -tremble Cor my coun ry, 

. I sia her border.? spread,. 
"1 witness Freedom's pnwur^ njarch^ 

And hear b.er legians tread; 
Ytt every added mile that gives 

To Freedom wider scope, 
Throws hot new barriers round, to blast 

The' wretched bondman's hope. . 

I ffethbie for my cburty, 

Dark ehidowS gather ronnd, [fo.tr 
And Hie ihreafnin* sib-m is muL'.'ri;:,'- 
• A sad and fearful sound; 

0 ! when the spirit forA of wrath ' 
Shali'ibrth in fury rido, 

What mortal voice slrali bid it stay ? 
What head in safely bide? 

1 tremble for rny coun'.ry, 
I mny rot (Tvo to See 

Tho shafts of justice round me faH, 

..'Or share tlie penalty; 

Yet, 0, my country not the less 

For thee my spirit' yearns, 
Aud o'er thy fast approaching doom 

With bitter anguish mourns. 



A Frank Acknowledgement. 

The Nc.w York Evangelist a' 
very influential fleiigious Pre§sbas 

the fol lowing: f \i\ii;- wj oi ia 

"To the shame of the church it must be 
i'poken, the forerno.-t nich i:i some of o> 
philanthropic move mayemerstsj in the intcr- 

n of the fphlt of '.he age, in (he prac- 
tical application of Christianity, in the refer-' 
matiqn of abuses, in the vindication of the 
rights of man, are men who make no profess- 
ion^ whom we have no reason to believe to 
be experimentally acquai te with Christian- 
ity. Th.3 cliureh bus rs'jfhuimousjy left not 
joiy the workin-- oar. bu the very reins of 
certain nectary reforms, to tni'n, who it 
not before inimical to C irieti anby, will be 
made so by Christianity, will be made so by 
Christianity's neglect of 'what 5s its proper 
mission to look after. They arc doing prac» 
tically with all their might, for Immunity's 
sake, what the church ought to be doing, as 
hcartily ; through itsministry and representa- 
tive men for Christ's sake. ' ••'?.' (j*>:j . >>*7T n 
And if they succeed, a* succeed they v. ill 
in abolishing Slavery, in banishing intemper- 
ance, in killing war, in rest raining licentious- 
ness, in reforming social abuses, then the 
j recoil upon Christianity, the antagonistic re- 
action from thebe Christianised sensibilities 
upon the cause jaL. i *-ehgton ' ; itself* 
will be disastrous in the extreme. Woe be 
to religion, when irr< ligicus men by force of 
nature, or the te? dency of the age, get ahead 
cf the church in morals and the practical 
work of Christ' mky! In some instances they 
•ir? already ai'anjr way-ahead. And we 
ivighi specify individuals; an(hj°WJnals in this 
country that iar.btrtbre: the. r< cognieedorgijis 
of the church, ir. th » a P. ji.-.ey of truth, right- 
•jousnsa #u<Liihe«-tg<...' : It "rifflt'"'.h|tiiilMM<HM 
.;ay wh*:hc-r.iij«.-.* is m<*-odiegrapet or danger 

: -ani fcota ...;:;-.tc and it is a little 

-.et.strka'aie that iais^he caty exact definit- 
on of religion found in th-> vicred volume, 
that ' ; pure religion, aadund»<8ied before God 
oven th* Father ,.is tjiisvto. visit the fatherless 
and vido .-. s in Uieif afiii^tiofij- and to keep 
ou-'sc-h" unipoUed from the world. Look not 
evdijy, man on bis own things, but every man 
nisoeuthe tilings of oiki* ? *» Hemember 
th m that are in bohds as bound with thern: 
"Wtiatso ver ye. would that others shoulddo 
A you, do t'vcn.sot.o them." . .. 



briety, came to acertain eo^ery to imy beer 

and is now living in < ei • Led drunkedness 

in the doggery of a: .- cs grogseller of 

that ceunlv, 

There! any body wh » cannot see that I 
clruhkenuess is right — at 1 ast"?ft^tt!rh'f' , as3 
ur slavery — must be very b'ind in'di^ A tiJJ 
this is but tlia be'_uvn~ " 1 hsureliiy— he] 
One kpows. \k . i.t'. J,_TKe. m. 

wicked c:' y ' :-.\eA \<y etrcn •. ' 

process of ratiocmatior) — nothing so base iMft 
may b ; u- .rioii !) sue 1 ' - : ;. ..j-J I 
of argument.-,-, , JS^iJ^sW Aurafn : ... 



From Howitt's Journal. 
•J : PEACE & WAR. 

' b V AN UN'tETTERSD YOUTH. 

is I y 'W AR . - 

Town deserted ; burning vilUge; 
Murder; rape; destructiop; pillage; 
Man compelled man's bl6o"d to shed 
Weeping ; wailing ; want of brea'l ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed, with sword insted of pens : 
Harvests trampled; homesters bnrnei 
This is war why is't uot spurned 

./ PEACF- 
Busy town and haypy .v^lhiga ; 
Frfiitful fie! 
Sniiiing wil 
I4bor sip" ; 
Boun't • 

Pvur-tr two 



ests ; busy fntm^ 
ilsustd tir«i-aniiH 
)ry aei Ht h»)ught ; 



Tiivnia Pea^a!, why ia'a not sought ? 



Returning to Slavery. — Once inagreat 
while when a slave runs away, from some 
laurfe or other returns to his master a great 
lffair^S mtd*» of ft Hy the proslavery parti - 
»ans, trying t*» show that 'he V/hole univer- 
>al nnr.s of cblored rv-o'pfe pYffer «hvery to 
libeify*. THey ara now chadnHng'praises to 
Wvery over tiie felk»Vih? "i"'eident. H : is 
i t about X* strong ^vid'en'c" triat" enslaving 
he colored pcqpU^Js ., light as suicide 
i rig'.t because. Judas hung hiip.- 
selfj ' . '■ " . 

The Talbihssse Sentinel cf th? 11th inst., 
=;ays: There is now, as we are most credibly 
informed, a young negro man, living in Jef- 
ferson couuty, in this ( siate, v whft» unable 
longer to end ire th>i coiiditloa «f d'^raded 
insolation, poverty and destitution, in which 
the northern free blacks dvag-out a miserable 
and precarious life, actually olft cted his escape 
(tern Pennsylvania, camo to St. Marks by 
va, and is now living in contented servitude 
i t.'o family of a respected resident of that 
?Wint^>..„/, tiY.iS*)*H<t-~^ I'd r*'W 
I;; it oossible! Well, here is a parallel case- 
Tua Toper's Sentinel of a recent date soys: 
T i r i ■ r.e v, as wp-are most credibly inform- 
ed, a younsr; drunken man, Hving in poverty 
■ of Inebriation, who, unable to 
" ■ ronditioii ot ' decent sobriety 
• •!.p-v'i]jii ;y and prosperity,^, in which the 
temperance man lives out the full measure of 
his days, in a pleasant enjoymont of life, act 
usvly ctl'ectcd bis escape lioiuthe hnd of So 



PROSPECTUS. 

Tte'tt#Ifr«L-Fr 

The -Journals of 1 - >';• m- a y be divided 
into three classes— the y-*jja<|i«i*> #if , -P^rti*. 
san, an^ 'jrerii^piaf.;.^ Qt^^e.^ftee^^hu^^i 
publfca^ipjjg^^iij- . Uy^' 7: i,la(>oj^jb^UtwQ or 
^hree w^ich..|)r^t t en!j. In^.bp, tywpqLjfi the 
cause of Truth on 1 all subiects, uurestrainad 
by sectarian or r artizan in'evost.or by a de- 
sire,ifrom selfish motives, to please the <rreat- 
est number of r?ad'-rsr; • Timse which are 
not controlled by some r-^igious sect, or po- 
political' party. «r *>'Jh»r*f»c*ciety ofesclus;i\er.. 
are decidedly of the -popular ctas«, and will 
defend no cause, how ever good, if it be un- 
favorably regarded by. 'he mass; be opposed 
to the general sentiment. Hence, the peri- 
odicals of the day, do n<it maintain an unre- 
served alUigiauc!. 'o Tr Ut, on tlie triumph of 
which depends the jyreaies . . . :;cd of the hu- 
man family. The cause of Iru'h demands 
Journals devofed to h-r interests, throe<jh 
whose pages the thoughts of every candid 
44ud can be •br^uglTUeTdre ' the public and 
tlioroughly canvassed, / ^T-— 'J"*i2 raw< 

To supply, in part, tL- is (' s aeratum is the 
Herald of Truth projected. it w 
emphatically what it- name purports,a Herald 
of truth on a'l subjects, without reference : 
the interests of any exclusive sect, party, or 
society, or to popubir considerations. 

It wilt be devoted to the interest of Itelii;- 
ion, Philosophy, Literature, Science, nnd Art 
It will review such of the now publications 
as are of substantial value, and canvass all 
questionable doctrines that may! e nubifsned.' 

Philosophers have d ^r t t'ed tr ; .ifi- 
nite Wisdom and he •.: " ^'e \& 'fibncv6)e'ncK ''ot 
God in contctripb.'ir.g His Physical Univ " 
and it is time the s::me o'emonf-tration t 
made in relation to th»> m ntnr world. In the 
former, the sublirh At a b rdtf? ' \s' ' irian tfe'sry 
while in the latter, the oVbasemcn: ■■r. ! r 
erics that -afflict r*4(rtiWf'f!li*Watell<e''d(!pV'sl 
confusion and disoHer. H-e is no' r spons- 
ible, for the 'for t*e evils cf <he mcital ur.i- 
verse, for m'sn ' cftgiiia l ,e*n^!;e^%u'rjyy*man 
they can and will b p ,rcm<>ved. ' 
r The discussion oTtr.f Taws ol" oi'j menial 
and physical organi?a:io?is, ard tin- neceaity 
of obedience, (o thcrii, as t'.e ' only mode of 
human regeneration* will-V^nsu.tu.tc a .parjic- 
ular feature of the Kee^i.d of TitUTii. 

It will enjage vi. orousi k ajl the n forms 
of the day which are f unded in Truth, aud 
as it will "hope aUthimrs," and "believe a! 
things," for the final triumph of Humanity 
over all evil, the only limit to its 
aspiration will be the e ntire redemption of 
the human iaot*- risiju'/ mi aw/1 nc»T?:u ; 

The Herai.dof Truth is published iro:th 
/t/, in Cincinnati, containiotr etokty octavo, 
pages, neatly printed on fine paper. It. will 
comprise two volr.inea annually.' of 430 
p'ages each, ard wilt be ofi-.red on fliefellow- 
rhg liberal term* : f «*d *bi»"' 

Ono yearly sabccripli n, ^3,00; two c -y- 
iesayear $5,00; five copies per year$ $11,00 
ten copies per year, #20,00; twenty t opies 
per year, $30,00. Th? ofTer of twenty cop- 
ies for the extra$rd«iary l6*r price of $30,00 
is made to those alone who frrm a club, and 
order the work to the anrr.e Post Office. A 
liberal discount will be made to Age nls. 

The HniAtDOF Truth is placed on a firm 
basis by 6evcial individuals of great pecuni- 
ary power. It will appear promptly on the 
first of the month. 

Papere copying this Prosectusa fewtimfs 
will receive the v crk. JL. A. 1£1M>, Ed 



Lt^David Ifnle, the senibur Ed- 
itor of the Journal of Commerce, . , 
out over his own signature against 
[b* origin and prosecution of the 

p'rpsebt wa,r..' 'tie says: 

midst cf the dangers which sur- 

'. iv is hut one clear way of either 
| m dity or sound policy. li is to 
couif o'u •'' he difficulty bv the same path 
■'v. '.(} ivs entered it; in short, to a- 
* ' •> to i al hotte cur young men 
and ! ave Mexico wh >le and entire to her 
ov.n mahWrnent. and ourselves to the full 
!v) men' of the boundless prosperity which 
P vitl'-i. • r- beitpws upon us. The cry, No 
niov iippro^i iation- for the w ar, must go up 
from uii ; a:v of :he nation. It is the on'y 
< . '1 at tsun pluee, us, jn saftey. To ex- 

...s opposi -co to *ba war, without declaring ... 
t' .- • :«> adandoned; to oppose it 

and stllfv oTR't'trpjilTt's for it, is only to ««tpll*U 
po.t 'he i.exiitiistra'ion in carrying it on. No 
man in the uattion would be mere relieved . 
than the President by. seeing an end to the 
war.j Jf'I'Understand l-,is feelings he would 
have been happy it Congress had refused ap- 
propriations at their last session. But uo one 
dare- to take the responcibility ofrecominend- 
ing ai.t ntlonment of the war. What a -dis- . - 
grace ii implies upoivthe Christianity of our 
country ! ! The President recommended 
the war; end Congress "afraid of the' people* • 
vot<d it. lie points out the means of carry- 
ing it on. -and they vote the men and money 
b< etr feafcrthe-peopb. In. myjudgment 
the President ahd Congr -.-s, underrated the 
intelligence and moia ity of the people. L?t . 
i.b.r- !.«eo:i •■■ sp-nh then and undeceive their 

t-rs !.*M;.»m know that they stand at 
; i ad rt a nation i ot of miltiary rowdies, 
rxit hi C' iistian men, full of the wisdom of 
nnc Good .Will. At any rate, tbs 
iiiigmusl be turned by the people, and it . tj 
e.eui only b de.ntf J\vr a,hold and loud demand 
that v-..i tke.wA be, ahandenedi. NO 
MORE Ai-^i'.C I r..ATiCisS FOR THE 
WAR ! ! COM E AWAY ! i rLeOMEXI- 
CO ALONE \ I must be proclaimed through 
tue land. Let nomaivc>)l himself a friendof 
peace who is not w illing to take this attitude. 
All other opinions are upou the whole, ia 
favor of w^r._^___ . _ YrvrHLVi*'* j 

' But whatever my country men may please 
to do or to say, I do not intend to live or 
die with any of the blood-stains of this war 

upon me. fWttlWiiMW^flf 

' DAVID HALE." 



ftf.,The Bconton W. T. B. Society will 

meet every Monday evening at the Free 

Church.' Themaa Riley President, Stephen 

G rimes &r>'cMyftw3 ^.i^^Jp^gLW^ 
, . Boonton Aug. 21, 1847. 



AKT1 SLAVERY BOOKS. 
Antes re mi' e f Anti-Slavery Books for 
■ i h I .- eT'cc among which are the fol- 

lowing." » ' ; .•» tn * m £**^*r 

Memoir of Lovejoy, ' 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 
' Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

Slave 1 * Friend 3 vol., 
rrd I ■MrK,<'Chitfl'S Appeal, ' fhlM 

•o ? ] < 8 lH PM T »ii R.Juwnta^ emr i t y yd Wit 
Lifijot Grauviilo ^Sbtrf t . • - •* 5 

?eo] .Jays Inquiry, tj«ii JLh tActd MMA 
ot 1 e Slave Trade, 

«,.! lfKkins Letters, ~ 

I Jay's View, 

Narrative ef Frederic Torglass, 
Alton Rio'a ■& Alton Tn'als, ■ 
'Ch(,;ir:ing on, Slavery', 

^ j Slavfery*!^!!,^!**"* ••il*#*M t - 



at this piB^ep j/ 

bluvevy ami the Slave trade at 

the Nation's Capital, 
l-'aitts for tite People, 
Calccbism on the iVlexican war 



THE 






Truth invites full and free Discussion; Error shrinks from, all investigation. 



Vol. 3 



Boontoin", October 2, 1847. 



No. % 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL EE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonlon, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 



Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
\2 numbers 
'5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
AH communications must be post paid. 



WAR. 



"Town deserted ; burning village; 
Murder; rape; destruction; pillage; 
Man compelled man's blood to shed ; 
Weeping ;. wailing ; want of bread ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed with sword instead of pens ; 
Harvests trampled; bomesteds burned ; 
This is war why is't not spumed." 



WHAT IS WAR? 

What is the chief businass of war? It is 
to destroy life; to mangle the limbs; to gash 
'and hew^the body; to plunge the sword into 
the heart of a fellow creature; to strew the 
earth with bleeding frames, & trample them 
under foot with horses hoofs. It is to bat- 
ter down and burn cities; to turn fruitful 
fields into deserts; to level the cottage of'the 
peasant, and the magnificent abode of opu- 
lence; to scourge nations with famine, tomul- 
tiply widows and orphans. Are these hon- 
orable deeds? Were we called to name ex- 
ploits worthy of demons, would we not natu- 
rally select such as these? We have thought 
that it was honorable to heal, to save, to mit- 
igate pain, to snatch the sick and sinking 
from the jaws of death. We have placed 
among the benefactors of the human race, the 
discoverers of arts which alleviate human suf- 
ferings, which prolong, adorn, a,nd cheer hu-. 
man life; and if these arts be honorable 
where is the glory of multiplying and aggra 
vating tortures and death. 



"A Correspondent -of", th? N. Y. 
Sun makes some startling state- 
ments about the conduct of Amer- 
ican soldiers in Mexico. He says, 

"At the bombardment of Vera Cmz, ten 
women, children, and non-combatants were 
killed 1 to one soldier, and the country people 
were much excited about it. To make the 
terror and hatred of the inhabitants still great- 
er, a party of American soldiers would some- 
times go on a frolic to an unoffending village 
end outrage the whole female portion of it , 
not even excepting the girls of eleven and 
twelve yeats of age, and in no case is an of- 
fence against Mexican women very closely 
inquired into. The consequence was that 
American soldiers could not stray out of sight 
of their comrades w ithout being killed by the 
husbands and relatives of these insulted wo- 
men." 

Again: 

"Americans will not readily believe these 
things of the army, but they are true. To 
subdue the exasperation of the Mexicans, 
and convince them of the intention of the 
American government to respect their cus 
toms, certain observances cf r.o value in 
themselves, but accepted as sighs of amity 
l>y the Mexicans, were paid by our military 
to their religious processions. It was a 
imer.e form, and a very cheap expiation for 
sixty respectable females that were known 
to have been horribly insulted in the course 
of two months by the Americans." 

The Sun is not the best author- 
ity in the world, but this account 
is by no means improbable. Jt 
must be remembered these are but 
the ordinary concomitants of war. 

When Gen. Scott was at Vera 
druz he hung a negro for an out- 
rage on a Mexican woman. The 
correspondent of the Sun says that 
two while, men were whipped and 
expelled from the camp, for the 
same offence. That's the advan 
jtage a villain has in being white. 
Hash. Patriot. 



The, following lines, by Scott, of Amwell 
are cut from an old magazine. . They tell 
homely trutfc,,we should do well to heed. 
Would, that all eyes- were as cleo»to see the 
fact of war through its outside glitter. Penn. 
Freeman. 

I hate that drum's discordast sound, 
Parading round and round and round; 
To thoughtless youth it pleasure yields, 
And lures from cities and from fields, 
To sell their liberty for charms 
Of tawdry lace and glittering arms; 
And when ambition's voice commands, 
To march, and fight, and fall, in foreign lands. 

I hate that drum's discordant sound, 
Parading round and round and round , 
To me it talks of ravaged plains, 
And burning towns aiid ruined^ swains, 
And mangled limbs, and dying groans, 
And widow's tears, and orphan's moans, 
And all that miserie's hand bestows, 
To fill the catalogue of human woes. 



The South Carolina Regiment of 
Volunteers left for Mexico about 6 
months ago, numbering about 800; 
140 died at Vera Cruz or near the 
place, and_330 more were sick at 
the hospitals, leaving 272 to fight 
at the late battles. Of these, 147 
were killed and wcunclcu in the 
battles, in August, leaving but 135 
out of 800 in 6 months, donbtless 
to be still farther reduced, These 
facts are given in a Richmond pa- 
per. Here is a good answer to the 
question what is war?- though it is 
far from being the worst that can 
be said of this infamous scourge. 



PEACE. 
Busy town and happy village ; 
Fruitful fields by careful tillage ; . 
Smiling wife and children gay ; 
Labor singing through the day ; 
Bounteous harvests ; busy Harms ; 
Rusty swords; disused fire-arms ; 
War's vain glory set at nought ; 
This is Peace! why is't not sought ? 



kindness! to one portion of God's creatures 
only, bul to all beings that are susceptible of 
pain, from the highest down to the lowest of 
all animated beings. Where peace prevails 
all strife, 1 contention aud cruelty cease. The 
law of peace forbids that any one ^hould be 
willing tb injure another, or take that which 
does not belong to him. It does even more 
than this. 1 That love] and kindness which 
constitutes true peace, makes a good Samar- 
itan of etyery one that possesses it. Peace, 
converts swords into plow shares, and spears 
into pruning' hooks. It is the antagonist of 
war in all respects. The miseries of the bat- 
tle field would disappear before it. Before it 
Armies would disband and dissolye; Navies 
would become annihilated; cannons would 
cease to roar in exultation over human butch- 
ary; dirkeJ pistols, bowie knives, and all in- 
struments (of cruelty would find one common 
grave; drums would not beat to drown the 
groans of the dying. Epaulettes would fall 
from the sboulders of men, and all the gaudy 
trappings of the warrior would be despised. 
All militarjr titles, instead of being coveted 
would be] regarded with loathing, and 
the glory of war would be a stench in the 
nostrils of men. 

Peace. is scurity to him that possesses and 
practices id Wicked men have a reverence 
for the mil: of peace. The brand of infamy 
is by the cenmon consent of even bad men, 
fixed upon lino who lays the hand of violence 
upon the mm ofpea.ee. All history bears 
testimony' to this truth. Peace men 
have been sustained through the most immi- 
nent perils, and passed through the most ter- 
rific scenes unharmed. The unarmed Qua- 
kers of New England, were ummolested in 
their persons, their families and their proper- 
ty by the Indians. The untutored and sav- 
age Indians regarding the unarmed man as a 
friend that did not wish to hurt them; fhose 
of their own sect, whose faith in the prirci- 
ple was not strong enough to keep them from 
going armed, were shot by the Indians as 
their enemies. Under the peaceful inlluence 
of Wm. Penn and his followers, Pennsylva- 
nia enjoyed uninterupted peace and security 
for about 70 years beloved and -respected by 
the Indians who where living in a state of 
deadly hostility with all those who beleived 
in the practice of war and carried arms even 
for there own protection. The world's his- 
tory furnishes innumerable instances of the 
beauty of the peace principle, in the safety 
of men amid the most iminent perils. Why 
■cannot men study, embrace, and practice the 
principles of peace. 



Woodbridge*- Great, preperalions had I een. 
made; an ox was roasted, and large numbers 
assembled to partake of it, ani to listen to 
the orator of the day, Dr. Bloomfield, father 
of the late Governor Bloomfield, of New 
Jersey. At the appointed time, the orator 
mounted the platform followed by all his 
slaves, fourteen in number, seven of whom 
took, place on his left hand and seven on his 
right hand, while he addressed the multitude 
on the evil of Slavery. At the close of his 
speech, he turned to his slaves, stating that 
inasmuch as \ve as a nation, had declared all 
men equal,- he could not constantly hold 
slaves. "Why," asked he, "should these, 
my fellow-citizens, be held in bondage? 
From this day they are free!'' 

In the midst of the applause which follow- 
ed, the Dr. called up to him one somewhat 
advanced in years. 

"Hector, 1 ' saitf he, "when you cannot sup- 
port yourself, you are entitled to a maintain- 
ence from my property. When do you sup- 
pose you will need that maintainence?" 

The delighted negro held up his left hand, 
aud, with his right, drew a line across the 
middle joint of his fingers ; "Neber, massa- 
so long as any of dese fingers are left above 
dese jints !" 

"There, fellow-citizens," said the Doctor, ' 
"you see that Liberty is as dear to the 
man of color as it is to you or me." 

The air rang with applause, and the com- 
pany separated, without a suggestion from.' 
any one that it would be an act of patriotism 
to Lynch the good Doctor for his fanaticism. 
How it would have fared, however, with 
some Caleb Gushing of that day, if such a 
character is supposable, had he undertaken 
to show the people that the war was not a 
struggle for Liberty and that the Declaration 
of Independence was merely a flourish of 
rhetoric, is very questionable. J. G. W. 



INTEMPERANCE. 



Ignorance, vice, crime; domestic strife and 
discordj.wretchedness and utter lum; murder, 
death, and woes unutterable. 



What ought to-be done can be done. 



Peace is.the law of love and kindness. Not 



From the National Era. 
THE FIISS-T •£JVTISI,& 1* 
JtiESu TJfflG MJV THE U. S. 

The Attorney-General of the State of 
Louisiana has pronounced the Declaration of 
Independence a "humbug;" and Caleb Cush- 
ing, late of Massachusetts, has made the dis 
covery, announced in his Fourth of July Or- 
ation, '«in General Arista's garden," that the 
Revolutionary war was not a war for Liber- 
ty. That such were not the views of the 
men of the Revolution, seems sufficiently 
manifest. One of the evidences of their idea 
of the nature and bearing of the great De- 
claration, is to be found in the proceedings of 
of a meeting held in Middlesex County New 
Jersey, on the 4th of 7th month, 1783, the 
first anniversary of the signing' of that instru- 
ment, after the close of the war. 

The meeting took place in the township of 



THRILLING INCIDENT- 
At a Temperance inseling in Philadelphia 
some years ago, i learned clergyman spoke in 
favor of wine as a drink; demonstrating it 
quite to his own satisfaction to script ual, gen- 
tlemanly and healthful. When clergy- 
man sat down, a plain, elderly miv. rose, and 
asked the liberty of saying a few words — 
" A young friend of mine," said he, "whu 
had long been intemperate, was at length pre- 
vailed on to the great joy of his friends to 
fake the pledge of entire abstainence from all 
that eould intoxicate. He kept the pledge 
failhfuly for some time, though the struggle 
with his habit was fearful: till one evening, 
in a social party, glasses of wine where han- 
ded around. They came to a clergymen, 
present, who took a glass, saying a few words 
in vindication of the practice. 'Well.' 
thought the young man, 'if a clergyman can 
take wine, and justify it so well, why not I? 
So he also took a glass. It instantly rekin- 
dled his fiery and slumbering appeiite; and 
after a rapid downward course, hs diedoft/e- 
Hrium tremens — a raving mad man.'" 

The old man paused for utterencc; and was 
just able to add — "That young man was imy 
only son; and the clergyman was the Rev 
Doctm who has just addressed this aesutibly'" 
Banner of Temperance. 



4 



mrmm 



W«rcopy the following Adver- 
tisenifcrs*. from the Newark Seis(4* 



el; !»v>k at it. tewiperame men 



THE FREEMAN. 

isOO^TGN, OCT. 4 I8C7. 
Vc, k>»71 right, to <& right, for its own Mike, 



hdw do like Alcohol and Oil Vitri-j 

c! r<> scy SblBftg atbottt the othe?f'w Benvolence, is Religion, is ChrisUa'mty. 

article* speeiSed- We c^r^klg^ : . _ r , 

ourselves a feettert*»5perancera&n .... ,,, , 

, , .*V . MAE CONVENTION. 

than any see vhp drinks root beer . . . , 

, ' , - ' will tc seen by a notict ia another eol- 

e? w»o Msofces or chews tooaeco, | -n;n that a m^Ungof the friends of fretfom 

To 60»a water am) xcot befr • in tIw mt! * ' :s '^ b * heia in on th,j 

■takers,- ' ' *- h - °"" inst - n*.ar,tfcy,) at 2 o'clock P. 




STATE 

CONTENTION*. 

The friends of liberty In New 
Jersey will meet in convention on 
j Thursday the 14 of Oct. inst., at 
Madison in this County at 2 o'clock 
Pjj M., for the purpose of notuina* 



SLAVERY. 



V.WK DBOWSBI.W OF GOO 

SLA V H S . 

In the year "830, there was hov-ring oa 
the African cpsst a Iarg< clipper bri^ calied 
the Brilliar.te, commanded by a desperado 
named Homans. Homans was an English* 

ing a candidate for Governor and j D * n by birth ' * nd . wos " knowa B!on 6 whoh ' 

'coast and in Cuba ks -ne most successful 



MHba Sassafetf Bark, Stolbi S:.?.Oa:I--.fW. , - -' ' *' h . Qd ^PP* ,tfH ^at fhii convention tftnc 



discussing other matters of impor 



. . do Sarsapai-iila, 50 Ho Burdock Root, I '"*— * bett " T be ^ Icter f * t? ; s nwrt, W 
150 do a: v.-e; Rom, 50<) di> Oft TCtrioi, j a few uk xl " »™ very desirous to have it be. 
105 di. Tartar;*! Acid, 51*!* AfeeAeJ. I ''ore th« Bu$i!o Convention, and fhlS is the 
Oil* of Wioiergrees. Sassafras, Lemon, £»• i apology for the shortness of the notice. 

ttXtra&ta suitable far flavoring! We trust it will make no difference '.vi;h 

j those who expect to attend 
j Information with regard to the place of 
| meeting can be had of Mr. Keep Mar the 
! Ddj-o!, ia Madison. 



a variety «« 
Syrap6, for e%le by 



R. VAN BUSKJRjT, 
ifS }>•« cor. y.sike.itreet. 



A vriskey rectifying 1 Ivonae ]r. Brcokh'n (bftl 
XJ*a>.'ii harrch ofirhhkeif'ih brx se-a^in, to a 
tiCf'.car.uiUviurmg eJ>tahMi>u3ici;i i" jN'. v.' 



THE" BUFFALO OONVENTK>K 



We ar.« not certii.i that the editors of the 
large liberty papers will nllcw tts tti say 
kny tiiiug about'tha duties of this convention, 
Thisk of was, ye 't<K...-.ne;euce root beer j but we will Ventura a few thoughts at any 
iiplen. Seventy barrels ofwiiiskey *o one rate. Wv haife b*.-ca unt>l recently, quite in- 
raoi be*r estahii^hment fn' oi;C- s^strf. How > diilerent ss to the tinie it sho«!d he held, but 
"ong *>ili it t.aU»j arr.an to extmguieh within (are poiv uftcidedfy ; 'of the op»nion that not 
him th«» haHkeiring after *bmu* us, while h- ■ no-J'inadon should be made this All. Letj 



slaver of his day. 'i'r.e brig was owned, by 

twomcn it-siding in Havana, one ua English* 

man, the oth^r a Spaniard. She wai built 

to wry six hundred nj^roeo, and hi her Ha- 

mans had made ten successful vovages, act. 

ua!ly landing b CKhe fim thousand negrot.'i? 

The Lrig carried ten gens, bad 30 oweepa- 

and u crew of sixti 9paniaMa,-the most of 

, . them old pirates^ »• desperate «s their com- 
A Convention of the mends of j , l . _ ' . , / . tJ . 

. ' . r e , e ^ mnnder. r^znsa or:gbf war wbsch at. 

pieslave m the County for the | tacl;ed h , r WMKJ Mt ,, p in , u) , aDt! rigg ^ f 

purpose of nominating candidates . bat ebe was soon SUB jj ;t . 5 H^glisk 



October 1st. 1847. 

MORRIS COUNTY 
CONVENTION. 



for county and state officers, and 
to consider other subjects of in ter- 
es?!, will be held in Madison on the 
14nf Oct. next (Thursday) at 4 o'- 
clock P. ML 

Oct.. 1st 1^7. 



■s*bi;ua iy dabbtaawkh tbeae vih t*h&bm?\ raetin S -* »ej4;>t thefriend* of liberty! ^ MAD1S0 jS'. JOURNAL.— This is the 




pursued i 
methbtwed! that 
cot.iprCheneive 



i:lea'' 



ia a large, 



w.'a^erar.c* principle, and • ero.i.ir. th« eou- 
tents cf those iliby n.cce be:; bottles". T!k 
««w.-"c!ing water, zji\vi a a.*= and pure bfi • ' g s ;j 

The Jet** imparity la tetnaatl? d«- l^y' pr0TO '4j wtroUs . we w jh &U ^y. 
COlMdsa a.ing::2» .1/ops. j dfufa ihatoa? "one ide*" is a grvct idea, it 
r-» ^ trickery can d- c<;ive you Lero, b . t { wt Bft t inw! » the right* *x& happinpsa . of 



to be aneutrcl prj>cr, belonging to no party. 
We l»ope the editors may succeed in busi- 



'i<-a," that it covera a vidft , 

. , 1 nes3 out wo ttimli that iu this particular acre, 
ail attemt'te to narrow it down ... ,, .,, . , ... c ,. . °. 

this world w:ll not be muck benenttea by 

neutrality. 



polaion Uiseeen. Ifef** i* na 
aura's beverage.' — Xiberttf Adweati 



acfc-irien or white, men cn'y: or of tpen jr 
j America «.r ia Alrica or any other iicrtibnfrl' 



^The Rhode Island STAE LIBERTY 
CONVENTION will be held iu Prorideoc? 

on Wedsesdny October the 6th. 1847. 



H iriiaa s Bctcksrt. 7 he Albany 
* i* *isi, a v jyliaujist.fr ether uj tlje a-iiasa 1 
"h^vtr* aocai t-i cjau^hyeir. The po. r i>r;.'e.- 

tutu d s of wivhoijl pain or k&owia-. 
<trh»t *•!» them.— C« •'• ../o Citizen. 

"Iluinaj:^ butchery :> What a harmomou 
l*iio:l of tfrr.is. Our gc/er •r.ieu' ahouic' 
jinwiiateiy funf>th»li»e anny v.i:h ether .end 
we kv^uid have aUitti<: •■iiuni->n. " v'va'. Ij; 
th: a:d of -»th*r Yc ought iave a.lijtlss ."H/. 
mane" fca»»ug, ani a '.'rivimrae*' whippjr . 
p4*t, th#- »!avei'o!ders might practice "He 
aana'' whipp'^* in loc-l. we need r.et ohoiisli l 
any of the wickedness in I hi; Worid, wlrhttn 
L\i of ether they naight all peVKnps'ha wa.;h 
jo sitbscrve the i^ttreeti of Humanity. 

Kut to be serjqns. if strikes 'as that r 
V70ti.d be ni:.re |,'Huwane" to let. the poo. 
acim^iw five, ?.r.& f*>ast our stppetitea on u»». 
rich productions • i tee s.'/il. 



I • • 1 , I 1 «U II V'lMtCMHJ >-^S. -~ ^.'v i tilt* Ukll. Il/T. . 

t!v. Siebe;but ALLi»a,EVE.ItT.H:MERE 
llimffWHwl **** Wgiteat u Uii 1t means that AtAN;ln| "^The King , : of Denmark hasaheltsh 



A iw ahftrStavery paper is about ••• 
fe? started ia MarBhal County. Virginia, »■ 
be cii!I"d the "Crisis" The progress ot' Fre- 
Cuai L rapidly onward in Western Virginia 

'THE WAR 

Never wsj there s<- ihucL faiie arithmeCK 
employed oa «".y aiibject, ss t:tat which ha> 



iU-6n)a4«*st ser.!;e ahouid be hie own onrkr; J slavery .a the Islanda of St. Croix, St. Thom- 
as, and St. Johns ia the West Indies. Thcv 
coetsined about 35,0(30 slaves. 

$9>A National Convention of eolore<i An - 
ericans wii! be held ia Trey in the Liberty 
Street presbytereafi Chkrch os the sixth oi 
October, ioat. 

(ifp VsRMosT.-~.Thc > PiifCtion in thin 
^♦si/> rs oasrted and tb^ whig^ have a a^ri'f 
rnajority than lest year. Th^ Deinacrato 
j 'tavc gained some on the whig*, sr.d 23 Lib- 
*rty men are elected to the ^e^igicturs. 



:t:at the fruits of his tail are his; that our 
.• eat idea must go against all those racnop- 
'i-< thai grind -V fhee «*f thepner, ar.d t-*' 

t > LiUi'u up in wealth and jntfs'ncr*, the f<;\v 
aj \h« expense of the many. We hope tV 

ttilTalo Con % «' • ion ill take Co narrow view 
1 1 'h-ngi . if they are to have but ««oae idea," 
t tf»ai id ...•s.td ..nough to embrace a'! 

he rights of man, this will cover a'! tlje 
• is of the i •! slave, which «ny half 

vay tnacsure will fail to dj. Let uscomV 
repeat J : las j;* of th* D^cleri: • 
■ion r.f Amer.cas i'Lc;epor.de5Ce, "thai a!' I 
men a:e cp-atea equal" which we aboti pro- 
nouuee in eSect u "rhetorical flourish," hv 

iarr«.V7ir/^ u.r.vn our aati-slavery "idea." we 

:over cha'ii do justice to this s.^timent, while 
wj? leave untouched thege orders 5a eoci-t* 
'viiiv.ii malte d! •:tiiH-t; ;i;2 among SBen create* 1 

'qual, and which enslave both boiy and miad 



Mai»6.— The DemrcratM hare «s 
usual gnioed the Electiou in Maine. There 
i as been an trr.memw falling off in all pe., tirs 
since last veer. The S'Midard scto io^n JIO 
,(ipo Liberty vote* f^r !8<3?. 

8f>The New Y^k Tribune hapw tha» 

q( nine Untte. of .J . human race, we say a-| ^ !^/ HI U the , whi ff 

l>J-tB. 1 hf. •Louisvilie Journal savs "he will 



M'ti let our "one id:;a' be broad enough loi 
kll _> c'iini.i of the down4rodden and 1 



aireased of the earih. 



not be, tiuh-ss call .d to the hlgli office hy the 

general wclamatifin of ail o'irties." Thnt ap- 

i pe-"\rs to u3 just like the s- rt ot call "old Zaak 

f is U-aitins; for. We prwphecy tuat noither of 
the M'ar is still procrressinf :n Mexico, t 7 r . r " 

j • : , . . T them wi 1 eeer be Preifidect.— 'W. *ir»e Preu 

liur.ian siangnter is <'Oid^ <-n tor tho eir.t?n- 



ion of. slavery. Ge.i. Scc.f» his had much] 




ilrcVJy posses*, in urakinf; roads 



\va? 



v/icked f 1 



«■:>► ..ic? river?,' bulltling pert*, improving the j Mexico and ' traking desolate that who! 
(.Hi. and fir- vr/.p'.oyf-ynt for their idle J ccuntr/. Blit Generals Scott and Taylor of 
peer, > wovh! render iMna retch stranger.; he uinateentrf tetttury am gaining *l»urel« 
uiuchW^'tbierMrl ha0pI*»,Th5s thrte«Ul f?' tn * S5 f* ™* ! « * Ter >" c ' !ri8 - 

, • * r 1 ii:.n r-AiMit^b 

be ctir wisdom. — j.:r*er»r.'i Vt>f/fw4 VOye 

9 a. 

W.tiTi gi.iVERT.-On« Wm, F.r.os, a 
rair h b# !i ■on^'icted a: St. Loii>s of 

i n'« • "ag/rat vitho.-.r any vi^S'e vr*»xw 
s. ,>r>t and has been sentenced to b" <:o'«H a* I 
p •! ..... f: n fi -it mon Ss v .-«o«a iri ads t 
iatiflvi ia vuy him./ifti. Fren Pnt$. 



6fr> Tl : /i> • »Ve»f in feivfntion 
at Philadr-lpbiahave nominated Gen. Tavlor 
or the prf-sidency. 

j[>IED. 



. On Moad-iv th 4 h p. . inst. F..ijsi C«jp- 
pelt of cwivumptipn, ag.'ii 20 year* 



sltjop cf war attempted'to carry ii.e Uriili^^ 
te with bsats, which were heatro off wii; 
great slaughter. iNov,- j.f was knowa that 
Unmans was again on the coast, and it waa 
resolved tc make another aiteinpt 'otake him. 
with the evidence of his guilt on boari. 
j The arrangements for this purpose where atl 
w^ii made.— H- »a.« allowed to take ia hi* 
cargo of liegroes and set sail. 

The 2rii!ente had Mt 'ost fig'tt of th« 
coant when the quick eye of her commaadee 
discovered he wrs cn*rupped. Four cruis. 
era, three of therr. Flnglish and ona Americax 
had been lyiag in wait for hifn, and escapo 
v-66 hopeless. In runing away frosi or>s he 
wou'd come in reach of another. Night 
was coming on nr.d Ilomar.y was stteutly re* 
garding his pursuers, when suddenly tho 
huge sails of the brig flapped idly, th* wied 
died away, an 1 «lie slaver was naotionh'ss oa 
the waters— "This niil r.ot do," Hotnaea 
muttered, knocking away the ashea from hie 
cigar — "their i-s.ito wili -•■ down npoo aao 
before I am ready for iV,ei visit," ead a* ha 
said this, hie ^te^o fac- lit up. with a smile, 
the eXpresioa of which was diabolical. . tl 
was evident 'Rough that he mediialed soma 
desperate plan. 

Adosen sweeps wpre gf»t cjt, erd.tlio 
vessel moved slowly tiirough »h9 water 
Meantime, the darkness having deepened, 
Homans proceeded >o carry out his design. 

The cable ».ttneheiJ to the h< svie- t anchor 
was »}: v outside of tht htwse. hole, an*' 
Carried around the 'ail cf the Urig, extending 
frcn tfee bow, aft around the stern, end thca 
forvrf.rd on the other aile. The hatchta 
where then taken «ff, aru the nsgroea pas- 
sed up, each securely irorrd by the wrists. 
As tfie m'sembi? wf ?teh©s oame up from tho 
dot bold, irty the freah air, thcv esprewed by 
thetelookSf a gratitude which w ould Havo 
:rf*..nfd the beort of eny but the fiea^ ia 
••hof;p pow.T they were. Without a word 
thev were led to the sida, and mode to bmct 
over the. rail, outside of which the chain ran. 
The irons v/ich cla*pe i their *rL-ts were tbra 
fastened by smaller chains to tho links of the 
cable. It was slow vcrk, but at the end of 
four hours sii hundred Africans malo end 
female, were Vndin^ over the rail of «he 
britr, in * painful position, holding by Inoir 
chained hands thr hu«je cable uhich was 
attached *o a heavy anchor, uuapend hy a sin- 
a;le »lin»froni the bow. 

Homatis himself examintd the factcnings 
to see thai every D,egro wa^ strongly bennd 
to the chain. This Swing done, he ordered 
the (icn work of the hold to be broken up, 
brought on deck, bound up ii» mattinj;, and 



•tivadiug [ mounted h«s horce with onl'' a sheep skin 
for a saddle, he rede in front of the house 
I v.bcre B^tty L^e lived, and without dismunt* 
ing reanested Betty t» come to him; on her 

coming, he. told her the Lerd *cnt him to msr» j well filled with shot ar.d thrown overboard 
ry h^r. Ratty replied, "the Lord's will l»e The work was completed an 'hour befo« 
don'!."— Ex. Pap*. 

I)?acnn M irvin got a difp-rcntansa-erfrom 
that which an acquaint^r of ours did. He 
•.vent with the iim<* me'vcje to .< very ew- 



e 

r'ay break, and now the 'oly v itne«e< of 
Homnn's *uilt wreaM ached to Mici faiftTetiain 
HorniM laraedto''h5sm«te, and vitha smile 
ful of waning, said in Spanish— 
mable lady, who very coolly replied. "If the | "Harro. take an ic « and pc- fhrward. Ti.« 
I/..ru has any ssa* intention., he would h.ifci wiud nill caajc «ftoti«sOM. Ijetpfati* 
syokeu tome absat »t."^V. Pre*. 



Pharisaic character of the whole scene-. A ' N ATIO >• A I . < X W VffN TIC N. 



rd,ard when yc;h.?:>r it cut the sting " When f wm mn> V'Urs'old, J was sold and | trc at otice struck wiifi the cold,' worldly I 
The man went' forward, and rfomans turn- ,a ken <w f, .v from my father and mother, and' " 
and in vain endeavored- to penetrate the I have B ^er seen them *ince. They were 
jkoess. <I don't wont to lose the nigger-.,' j both christians. I: aknost killed my father 

saiO neakns alottd—'and -ret I dare not wfaen '- ,e saw me about to bo separated from j choir; a forrtal heartless prayer; an eager in-. 



commonplace, inflated haras zue fromth" p»»'« 
pit; a jingl'ng hymn sung by a wil-pa'd 



t until daylight. I wtah i knew where j hi,K - 1 M ,he horse slood '*>' 

• door, ?.nd Iwas put op his back.; bciris to-- 



th« 



nouRis were. 

At that instant the rc-pcrt of a gun read 
£ ear, then another, am! another, ar.d 
i:i different directions. The cruisers were 
i 'g signals 

'Thai's enough,? exelR ; med Jforoans— 'I 
low where you are.'' Then raising his 
lie; he cried 'Harro, ere yon ready? th 
Hind will each us soon.' 
'A'', ay, sir,' was the response. 
In a few minutes the sails began to fill, 
lid the vessel moved si owly through the wa- 
|r-- 

C KW rrareh w- ter do you suppose wc 
lave here? aeked'Homans turning totha man 
4; the wheel. 
'Fifty fathoms st least,' war. the reply, 
that will do,' the slaver muttered and he 
Irafc d forward, and examined earfullythe 
train gangfashe brutally termed his dia^- 
Ifcsl invention 

The negroes set up piteous groans. For 
Isar.y hours they had been Went over this un- 
laiural position, by which they'were eu£e> 
log the keenest torture. 
I The breete strengthened, and this Brilliant. 1 
a4.l-.fs4 like a racer over the deap. Homans 
Bailed from Jhe quarter deck, while his men 
Collected iiigr«ups, witnessed unmoved the 
Consummation of the plan: 
I 'Are you ready, Harro?' 
j Ay, ay si?.' 

lioeians looked around end out into the 
darkness which was fast g'.siug way to the 
fiaora. Then he tluiaderad out-— 
'Strike.' 1 

There was the Bound of e single blow, a 
(fceavy plunge and zt tho c::b!e feljl off the 
ide, a crash, ak.ive which mrose one terrible 
fchriek— • it was the last cry of the murdered 
JLfrieans. One moment more, ar.d »fi was 
•till. She hundred human beings Lad gone 
idown with that ancner and chain iato the 
depth* of tne ocean ! 

Two hours after day br*ak, th? Bri'liacte 
was overhauled. There was no evidence 
ihat she was a slaver, and her raptors were 
obliged to l^t her pass. The ms: ructions t>.. 
cruisers at that tim« did not allow a vessel to 
•b* captured unles* negroes were found on 
iboard. 



r- c '- -.(j 1 5' our 'S •° ^ fe'- r,( ' r came up to the 

* horse and »ook held of mv little feet; and then 
anoth- , , , . _ , • ' , . „ 

he prayed to Goo t. talte of me, and while 

he was praying for me he frit so bad to have 

me go awny that he fainted nad fell dovn or, 

the grou d ;-.long aide ')f the hcrce. 

My mother was a Christian too, and when 

she bid nge farewell she said, <f, Sarah, when 

you hear I am dead, don't cry for me, I sha'i 

bninhfa;en. Be a good girl and prepao 

'o meet me there! Since that morning. 

which isn w SO years, I have never seen m;, 



Eerehang« of compliments and recogriiio. s, 
.3 the relieved coogre; atioa hurry through 
he vestibule, and the melancholy scene h 
over. Ths sons and laughters of Mammon, 
•he votaries oi fashion, go home 10. dinner, 

at 



A Hams Cas*:-— The Pittsburgh Morning 
Test stotes that a colored man, named John 
H. Winston, who left his home ia -that city- 
come time last sprinr, and went as a fireman 
■on a steamboat, is now in the pi! of iiender- 

the ahsar.ee. cf a certificate of freedom 



From the Natoaal Era. 

Extract of a letter from Johr 
Smith the younger. We can a* 
sm? the writer that the sort of re- 
ligion he speaks of is by no means 
confined to the Cities. 

If numerous and elegant churches arTon! 
er<)' evidetjc^ of superior godliness, New York 
mey bo justly regarded as a city greatly 
abounding in grace. fCoqtly tempter, are 
•pringin'; up in all directions. The different 
religious denominations we rivaling one an- 
other in church building, and the grand strug- 
gle appears to be, not so much which can be 
most faithfa! to there professed Lord and 
Master, a* which can c reef the moat niiig- 
nificerit pl^ce* of Worship. Almost all the 
old, plain, aud unpretending edifices, ir: 
which the pious citizens of the last generatioi- 
prayed and dozed, have been torn down, riui 
their places are now occupied by the store's 
& warehouses of the sons^of Mammon, wih-t. 
up-town. in the, faphion&ble favbourgd. new 
churches, decorated inside and outside like 
the palaces of kings, open their gates to the 
genteel children of Zioa. 

These churches have their various degree? 
of respectability and gentility, just as th^ 
millinery establishments of Broadway andtb 
Bowery have theirs 1 . A foshicn«b!e lady 
would no more patroaisa ora of your vulgar, 
plain, religious edifices in ft side street, than 
sbe would think of ordering r spring bonnet 
"Dr. Smith is a very zealous 



To the Liberty I'-nty of tlic United fitafsa 

The Katioaa' CoiT-isponding Cor».in-''ec cf 
the preside nl:»! cion of 1 -,cd i:r-> - 
iagii time tie ' faftfhl friends of Ltbrttfy should 
meet to nominate tnie sad 'tried ••. *>n as t*t !, 
candidates lor the cfiices' oi" Pie'sident aart 
Vice Pretsideni of tl.f Ui ited States, do here 
lore satisfied with .themselves and farther V*** 1 ? n ^ anemfaers of Iiat j.ak^ to meet: 
om God than ever, without having b«?ard io^atRmal.. Kopiust}^ ©^fiti^r*, at 'U 
:o thing to disturb or alarm the conscience, j ci *>* c - f }X V V F A L °' • K % WEDiSa. 
viih sin unrebuked, follies unreproved, minds i DA> " ti:c * 0th ™'j wTOB-EB: next, at 
agenlightened, hearts as frozen, as fcr re- 1 ^° o'ciook, A. M., to -continue in «es lo 0 
moved as ever from th> puvirying and enno*- wo a 5 8, 

'•lieg infiueces of tr'>e religion. j The vote to he taken fcy SinXca ontheelec* 

Ahl my friend, in vsuii do wc seek in toral basis. The mode of cactiag the vote 

by e.'fch State, to be BeUled by the State* sev- 
erally. . > ^ >*Hitju 

Bv Bbe ffational CoaiRiittee of the Liberty 
party. 

Alvan Stf.wart, N. Y. 
Joshua Lkavi-Jt, Mss=. 

ScuvihiiR Hobs, TV. J. 
T. HirTi.-H?ssoir,'Vt.'' ■' ' 
S. FssskjiiJew, Mo. u " ! 
F. j. I.i:i!OYKr.j Pern, 
Francis CtttRTrt. Cobb. 



these splendid tetripUs, where cushioned 



d< ar mother and father; and I .never exp-.ct j vveaith ur.d pride anagine thftt they worship 
to see them in this world. I have eigh j God, for tha; pure religion which wt3 prom- 
hrothera and sisters scattered through thr hilgsted in all its sublime simplicity on the 
difTeretit :;lave States, aud have not seen one shores of g?>!:lec and in the s'reets cf thel 
of them these seventeen years.-' — Emancia- 1 Holy City! Christianity", amongst eertaiti j 
tor. ! classes here, has becoaie a '.ncre thirjg of fash- 

ion, like a box at the opera or a drawin<; 
room at the "springs" It rf-.mintis cne of the 
corrupt state of the. church in the days of 
^t. Chrysostcm, when hia fasntonaaTc" hear- 
ers defiled the temple of the living Cod by 
nicking it the theatre of vein conversation 
<nd s-.eritcrioue display. In vein would the 
poor and coedy seek edmiEstoa to these mag- 
nificent charehes. — A very fashionable led v 
of this city, whose mamma enjoyed fcr mary 
vea'rs an enviable reputat'on for migenor 
iadustry a-vd energy at the v. ?.-:htub, it is se.iu 
once replied U & worthy divine, who was en- 
borticg her to be. less arrogant to tho p>or, 
as they were of kindred blood, and WO*Id 
through the Redeemer, share equally with 
the rich the ^loriee of the celestial abodes, 
ihatshe "had so idea that genteel peopS 
would inir.g'.ethera with thj j>sor, as th ;r" 
would ba for the latter back ee«t« in tlte 
kinsdom ofHoeven: " Many of atxr profess ; 
of Christianity anpear to be vt-.ry niueh of th< 
same' way of thinking, and indeed, go a lit'.! 



E 




Domestic Peace 



At a recent meeting in Cork, F^ifher 



farther; for they will not allow the poor - j. Mg.thew declared that «©ot 



•bachseat" even in the earthly teiiiple, 1 uild 
ing for themselves-exclusive houses of j: 
where no vulgar aspiratioaa fire permitted • 
^^ipgle with the incer.se of elegance, refine- 
ment, fashion, and fancy s'.ock, fortunate lei- 
holding; aristocracv! 



cue single ir»di- 
i-!r<ai ♦ee-jotaler had become a victim ic ri r L-< 
r famiije or peeUicjice. , | A. t-« that rs^ 
juires no Eertr.oc. 



in Ct^'sea, 

preacher? : ' "Oh ! as for Irs zeal, i don', 
ootity, Kent«cky,committed because of] ^..bat he is such a nice, genteel sort of a 

j man: and bifl < hurch is eo very r enteel — very 
fie wril soon be sold unless the jail fees be j fashionabl(s 1 Msare you^qoiteactett and e* 

p at Dr.Brown's 

rather vol- 

If* Jnoksou suecaeded 



„, J j tashionaole. 1 assure j'ovj — quite s 

lather, brothers and sisters reside Do you ^ wor ; hib a( 

m Pittshtrrgo but Lney are quita poor. This , ,.„ „ , , , . ... 

J , .... , .church:" Oh' dear me! no! Its 
is tridep.j a r.aro case, ana one w.uch ehould ..... T 



inanity and liberty. This man a citizen of 
Pennsylvania, gui3ty of no crime, go?.? to 
Kentucky in the regular prosecution cf his 
business, a «d though by tho Constitution of 
the United States, he ie entitled to all "he 
privileges of citizenship, he is imprisoned 
because he hs«t not in his pocket a ee.rtifica.ie 
from so-ie m 'g'strate that he is free. How 
long will the Free States tamely subiaii to 
outrages like this?— 'ffMve, 



A Wm*lT. IF ACT. 

Se»en years ago, while engaged on? Sah- 
bath afu rr.con in circulating the temperance 
nl.- lvo among oar colored fiioadR at Pitts- 
t>ur»h, I rr-eeivrd some «tad taies of sorrow 
from th,Mr Kpj. Amois^ thos» who* signed 
the pledge. !r?.c«ll.'cted one who was a mar- 
ried woman ao-ed fiirty-ton. vears, apparent- 
ly a n - ot of veracity. H^r fade '*r#s i • 



ft*. 7ne first Tn. sdaV in Ife* 
the nohecawb*;!! are appended to thw bn I frfeVds of Tempei«ce wi« have m 
tide wii| inform you that on? genteel dire j t ^jjy 0 f showing their seal in tre caus.- 3/ 
pies, even in the bfuse of prayer, do not for- j voting against the i?Vei-v S^rr>. What 
get the "main cbanc." mamrnon docs nufei will be' the result? Will Teroiwrence fn-.n 



dese. — Church stock is amonog the best infthofie wj»< beliave ^ r. no lateen?*, law.shrw 
the market. Not for nought is tins modern] &eic atneerity by tun&tyf tH&nutj votiaf, or 
Christianity eerved by godly stockjobbers •:. 
W»!l street, holy directors cf bank?, and spL - - 
ftURlly-minded Bpequlators in "the indigo am 
tobacco line!" Sharer? in toe churchtbutidinu 
enterprizes are sold like tl-.ose in the Long 
'aland railroad; as vou perceive, pews are. tot 
up at auction and knocked down like so mauy 
lots of tea, co {?•»*, 0: suear. A thins,' hard'. 
reaa;ed of iu the days of the Apostles! 

Biitttinisxsd tnTo TRUTir.-sSeldorti dor- 
a mistake tell more truth or tnitb better de 
served, than in the case described by this 
anecdote nf a recea<. cccur-'0>;e a>r)one th.' 
slaveholdiig Christians of Missouri. 

" A. fine sloae church was lately built ic 
Missouri, upon tHe facade of w hich a 4lohe 



so v/cil in Wtil street last year, that we join- 
ed Dr. Mojihinee' church, up town!" <4 \nd 
how do you like him:" " Well, the congreg- • 
tion'cuticoir.mon gdr.teei,i ('"dare. Why, the 
Thompson's and Johns. «rj and trie 
phys, ajad the Van Blixens, g. there. Oh ' 
it's none but the tip top. 1 assur vou!" A«sd 

so my dear friend, on e-'e y Sal : « ! j, in this ( cutter -was ordered to eut the fcliawinjr as 
goodly city, the genteel churchea are wel' 
filled; siike and sAtin-t ruietle bravely i'» crowd 



;m inscription: "My house shell beoalfcd the 
house of prayer" Me was refe.red for accp- 
ed ai*i«v; in soft and sleepy tonen, the round • r!tcy t 0 the verse of scripture in which thcsi 



ed periods drop like honey from the lips of 
the oily preacher; and the fashionable congre- 
gation i* is cold, as formal, as v/orldlv-mii.d- 
eun'-ss 'un make it?Heayanpitte«;heI1 laughs, 
and the angel? veil their wings their sadd n- 
ed faces and their weej>iu{» ey .-a! \ r,, s; enJ.er 
on<» of these J'uhcommonlv ^ ntael" church 
where the numb n at empt to rival their 
fellow-men, not in faith, love, parity, and wir- 
lue, but iu.the splendor of the bui'ding in 
which he- aflVt to worship, and in preten- 

.mnii fachi^.t nnrt u : mi li lirw^_ And VQll 



M'ord^t occur, hat unfortunately he transcribed 
to the scandal of the society, the whole versa 
"My LouK*- sh-dl' be called the boiias of pray- 
er h:il <jc hevf. made it a dm e//A^oee, n 

The mortified owners. *si?em^i<d remedy 
thi3 difficulty by fiiiing up the litters of the 
odious reptoacti with paint, which changing 
its color in th** sunlight, made it still mor:- 
ronapicuou*, v. that at a distance wh-ra the 
firmer part of the ps'.sag^ was not visible 
hJaced out in glaring colors H but t/e Ikotw 



will iliey let the ram sellers have th<* victor* 
d?fau;t ? We beli-ve that th; l-jrr.jjeratice 
men of New Jefcey^ the great Vc-dy of the??a 
are too stupid, 10c *»mpeu up ia their owt 
rnftty interests, to even iak- time to go to th» 
poJIa ana vote. Something may occur "hat 
that wi ii wske Up the people before th" • 
'ico. w e hope their ni?y b^ a powasfnl s'.r.k* 
»pg of dry bones, one tret hrin<out -ftf 
h-mpi jance man to votftyartd «i t - b the 
• 1 mdrinl'cr? might »••■* how niaeh it woai-' ue- 
.c . ■■•"r p^a-e aad haufia-'ss to come <ut asd. 
vote no 'krnse als... Altough We do wr. he- 
'•ev» that auccesta in this thing will ki 1 king 
Alcohol, we wish e%tejy Town in the StRto 
•Tiny vote r.c iiier.se, hut w:- hsye our fetis 
that tha apathy and s&lflffkness cf'hetrr.pr- 
•raercc:-. ir. Few Tt-.-raey wiligi-e tUc r«J» 
sellert/ t-v.y victor in nrsr'.y cr 
quite ail the T-.-waa. l«" thii seo«'4 be 
hecese, the law of the last sesiorr of ih» 
Lrgi»t»tc.-- 5 the license question the. 
peepls [will provt? ar-l^asi fir the time be:?^, 
. ' urse to he tempt rehce :*.-±>v. V- r\ e> 
iKco men, shall it BR vo? Will 303, after ask* 
ng for the (aw, give oil the benefit* of it :® 
' iie rumaciter ? 

Ve ulig 11 se ■. VVe never a»kvd for the taw.w» 
oeli^'/e it was ao. asking t.nO',eh.'bul ^ * ."- . 
ten ! to Tote and peravace all o A . l ei» tn "C 1 
if n-e can, and make the moat of a half v . 
• i? re, as it has got. to be trie«, bat out ut.a U 
small in the h : <?h s«-»c'sd devoiedresf cf the 



iinte it a dm o/VA-Vsct" They silcnc-d the] people, of New J^sfJ, \V* will 3%*'.* W 



From Howilt's Journal. 
LABOU R-WORSHIF. . 

by Edward ioul. 

("JLaborare est oiare,'' 

Brother, kneeling late and early, 
Never working— Praying ever— 

Up and labor— Work is prayer, 
Worship is m best endeavour. 

Days and nights not given to service, jgfi 
Turn thy life to sinful waste; 

Be no laggard,— be^no sluggard,— 
Live not like a man disgraced, 

S e e_Creation never resteth, 

Ever God creates anew, 
To be like him is to labor, 

To adore him is to do. 

Do thy best, and do it bravely, 
Never flag with under-zeal, — 

This is writ as sc/jpture holy, 

Thou must either work or steal 

None have mandate to be idle; 

Folded hands are vilest crime, 
God's command is labor^worship, 

In thy youth and in thy prima. 

Foivl preach the new est Gospel,— 

Woik with hand and work with heat; 

Work— the Heavens are working alway; 
Nature reads a text to Art. 

Suns become the sires of Systems, 
Planets labor as they roll; 

And the law ofthcir Celestial, 
la a law within thy soul 

From thy nerves at each pulsation,— 
From the mystery of sleep,— 

Cjmes a leoson— u monition, 
Whcsa significance is <leep. 

Hightly read, and fitly headed, 
It will wisper to thy breast — 

"Thou art clothed around with beauty. 
And and au angd is thy guest." 

But the beauty worketh, striveth, 

And ia leading thee apace 
To a Fnture, whose foundations 

God hath planted not in space. 

Oh the angel— How he helpeth! 

Hinder not by act of thine; 
Lagging limbs, or heart aweary, 

Mar the work of the Divine. 

Be a workman, O my brother; 

Higher worship is there nojie:— 
With its hymn of work devotion, 

Nature, is one choral tone. 

As I read the newest Gospel, — 
When the spade divides the clod, 

When the ploughshare turns the funow, 
Men in prayer strive with God. 

Pray — "The early rain and latter, 
Lord withhold not from our toil; 

Fructify the seed wc scatter, 

With this worship, in the soil." 

Say-"No slothful invocations 

. From our lips our lives profane; 
We have kept the old commandment, 
Taking not thy name in vain. 

Bat thev break the old commandment, 

And invoke (hy Namo with sin, 
Who, their idle hands uplifting, 
Unearned good do garner in. 

"We have new interpretation 
For the old instruction-ASK; 

Best he asketh one who tasketh, 
Sinews to perform his task." 

As I read the newest Gospel, 

Therp is nothing fixed and still; 

Constant only in mutation 

Is God's law of good and ill. 



Time was, when the tongue's petition 
Wisely wrestled with the skies; 

When the flames,. that curlerLon altars, 
Made accepted sacrifice. 

Time was, when the crowd exalted 
Priests above their fellow men ; — 

But that worship is departed, 
And doth not return again. 

Ever working, — ever doing, — 

Nature's law in Space and Time; — 
See thou heed it in thy worship; 
Build thou up a life sublime. 

Ever Idleness blasphemeth 
In its prayer — in its praise; 

How shall Heaven accept his incentfe, 
Who is idle all his days? 

Be a workman, O my brother; 

Trust not worship to the tongue ; 
Pray with strenuous self-exertion; 

Best by Hands are anthems sung. 

Everywhere the earth is hallowed, 
Temples rise on every soil — 

In the forest — in the city — 

And their priest is Daily Toil. 



place in the neighboring church yards. -Mad- 
ison Journal. 



Are the propietors'of such church yards 
fit persons to set as Judges or Jurors Or to 
testify as witnesses in trials for murder? We 
say not .-Ed. Freeman. 

In the case of a Volunteer in the New Jer- 
sey Battalion, brought up on 'habeas corpus,' 
the Chancellor of this State has decided that 
being in a state of intoxication at the time of 
enlistment, is sufficient cause to vitiate the 
engagement, and the individual was conse- 
quently dis charged. — West Jentyman. 



#3*The Boonton W. T. B. Society will 
. meet ej ary .Monday evening at, the Free 
"Church. Thomas Riley President, Stephen 



Grimes Secretary. 



Boonton Aug. 24, 1847. 



PROSPECTUS. 

THE HERALD OF J TRUTH. 



SELECTED. 
SCOPE 



Hope is the sweet consoling balm, 
Which soothes the languid soul, 

And makes the troubled feelings calm 
When adverse winds controul. 

It is the?great reserve of life, 
Which stays the sinking heart 
t Amid distress and worldly strife, 
And all that they impart. 

It is that great, that mystic power, 
Which penetrates the mind, 

And points to that far distant bower 
Prepared for all mankind. 




WATER.—There is nothing more beautiful 
than water. Look at it when you v/ill 
any of it6 thousand forms, dripping from the 
moss or springing or leaping in the thunder 
of the cataract, it has always the same won 
lerful surpassing beauty. Clear transparen- 
cy, the grace of its passible motion, and the 
brilliant sheat of foam, and its majestic march 
a the flood, are matched unitedly by no other 
element. Who has not blessed it unawares? 
If objects that meet the e) r e have any effect 
upon our hapiness, water is the first of hu 
man blessings. It is the gladdest thing un- 
der heaven. The inspired writers use it 
constantly as an image of gladness, and 
■"chryslal waters" is the beautiful type of the 
Apocalypse for th<» joy of the new Jeraslcm. 
I bless God for its usefuluess, but it is every 
day blessings that its splendor is unnoticed, 
its value unappreciated. Take a childjto it 
and he clasps his hands with delight; present 
it to any one in a new form, and his senses 
are bewildered. The man of warm imagina- 
tion who looks for the firs^ time On Niagara, 
feels an impulse to leap in, which is almost 
irresistible. — £pri»(jfield Dem. 



REFUSED A BURIAL SPOT. 



At a road crossing in Waren county, the 
attention of the passing stranger is directed to 
a beautiful semi-circular stone buttress, so 
prominent in one of the angles of the road 
as to cause him to alight from curiosity to 
assertain its object, when in the centre of the 
enclosure his eye arrested by a single marT 
blc slab, containing the record of the death of 
Peter W. Park, and Joseph W. Carter, Jr., 
"who suffered martyrdom for the murder of 
the unfortunate Castner family." The re- 
mains of these two men were denied a burial 



The Journals of the day may be divided 
into three classes— the Sectarian, the Parti- 
san, and the Popular. Of the fifteen hunred 
publications in our land, I know but two or 
three which pretend to be devoted to the 
cause of Truth ort all subjects, uurestrainad 
by sectarian or partizan interest, or by a de- 
sire, from selfish motives, to please the great- 
est number of readers. Those which are 
not controlled by some religious sect, or po- 
political party, or other society ofexclusires, 
are decidedly of the popular class, and will 
defend no cause, how ever good, if it be un- 
favorably regarded by the mass;, be opposed 
to the general sentiment. Hence, the peri- 
odicals of the day. do not maintain an unre- 
served allegiance to Truth, on the triumph of 
which depends the greatest good of the hu- 
man family. The cause of truth demands 
Journals devoted to her interests, through 
whose pages the thoughts of every candid 
mind can be brought before the public and 
thoroughly canvassed. 

To supply, in part, this desideratum, is the 
Herald of Truth projected. It will be 
emphatically what its name purports,* Herald 
of truth on all subjects, without refference to 
the interests of any exclusive sect, party, or 
society, or to popular considerations. 

It will be devoted to the interest of Relig- 
ion, Philosophy, Literature, Science, and Art 
It will review such of the new. publications 
rs are of substantial value, and canvass all 
questionable doctrines that may be published. 

Philosophers have demonstrated the infi- 
nite Wisdom and boundless Benevolence of 
God in contemplating His Physical Unirer?e 
and it is time the same demonstration were 
made in relation to the mental world. In the 
former, the sublimest order is manifest, 
while in the latter, the debasement and mis- 
erics that afflict mankind, indicate thedepest 
confusion and disorder. He is not respons- 
ible for the for the evils of the mental uni- 
verse, for man originated them, and by man 
they can and will be removed. 

The discussion of the laws of our mental 
and physical organizations, and the neef.sity 
of obedience to them, as the only mode of 
human regeneration, will constitute a - partic- 
ular feature of the Herald of Truth. 

It wjl! engage vigorously in all the reforms 
of the day which are. fouuded in Truth, audi 
as it will "hopo all things," and "believe al 
things," for the final triumph of Humanity, 
over all evil, the only limit to its 
aspiration will be the entire redemption of 
the human race. 

The Herald of Truth is published month- 
ly, in Cincinnati, containing eighty octavo, 
pages, neatly printed on fine paper. It will 
comprise two volumes annually, of 480 
pages each, and will be offered on the follow- 
ing liberal terms : 

One yearly subscription, $3,00; two cop- 
ies ayear $5,00; five copies per year, $11,00 
ten copies per year, $20,00; twenty copies 
per year, $30,00. The offer of twenty cop- 
ies for the extraordinary low price of $30,00 
is made, to those alone who Form a club, and 
order the work to the same Post Office. A 
liberal discount will be made to Agents. 

The Herald of Truth is placed on a firm 
basis by several individuals of great peeuui 
ary power. It will appear promptly on Ihe 
first of the month. 

Papers copying this Proscctus a few times 
will reccivo the work. L. A. H1NE,' Ed 



l&S^'There must be something wrong.''«£"£! 

When we think of the destructive progress, 
that disease is making among human teeth> 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," , 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a smalL 
book on the teeth by John^Burdell, Dentist, 
published and tor sale by Fowlers & Wells,, 
131 Nassau StreetJNew York, which we 
earnestly recommend to all those interrested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth. It should he read 
by every body, particularly the young, 
Ptice twelve and a half cents. 



PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
for 1848. — FOWLERS & WELLS of 13> 
Nassau Street, New York, have published ' 
and have fur sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1848. Besides' tht 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U. S., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Martiueau, Charles Dickens, Herac'e ' 
Greely, Thoma Wildey, Zachary Taylor, 
Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, Torn Thumb 
Dr. Sewallparrd ^Stephen Olin, with^a brief 
and interresting jsketch of the character of 
each, considered urja phrenological point of 
view. 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, & 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourn*, 
for sr.le at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH,)| for 

sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 

become acquainted wi th the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. .This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuable light on the subject. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.— Argument 
of Edwwd Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment of Anti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office among which are the fol- 
lowing. ». 
Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West Indies, ; 
Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 
' Slave's!Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is, 
Life of Granville Sharp, 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots &. Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mott's Sketches, 
Slavery As it Is, 



LIBERTY TACTS — for sale, 

at this office, 

• Slavery and the Slave trade at 
the Nation's Capital, 
Facts for"the*People, 
„ Catechism on the Mexican war 



THE _N 






Truth invites full and free Discussion; Error shrinks from all investigation. 



Vol. 3 



Booxtox, November 2, 1847. 



No. 3. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

I FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonton, Morris County, Neio Jersey. 



for State Governor. In one family I met a then drawn strait by means of blocks, then a 
bright mullatto girl, of sixteen. She was c np drawn over his head and face. The 
hired of this minister, who owned her sister boy I should think was not over 13 years of 
also. Her employer had frequently remark- a ge. He was whipped very hard — the sMn 



TERMS. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 

5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All commuHications must be post paid. 

SLAVERY. 



Perpetual unpaid toil; no marriage, no 
husband, no wife; no parent, no child; igno- 
rance, licentiousness; whips, chains, scour- 
ges, auction sales and separations; an em- 
bodyment of all the woes that the imagina- 
tion can conceive . 

(jtfJuly 13th, 1847, at 10 o'clock A. 
M., the UNITED STATES GOVERN - 
'. MENT sold at public Auction, in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, Two Women, for $530, & 
put the money into the United Slates Treas- 
ury. What have we of the North to do 
with the government? Let it be remember- 
ed that this money goes to help pay the ex- 
penses of an aggressive war on a sister re- 
public, for the acquirement of more slave 
Territory. 



A Columbus correspondent of 
the A. S. Standard gives the follow- 
ing respecting a young preacher in 
Missouri, boarding in a family in 
which lived a colored lad, a slave. 

"One day this 6crvant of the Lord declar- 
ed that sixty dollars had been stolen from an 
unlocked box which he kept under the bed, 
and he avowed his conviction that the color- 
ed lad had had taken it. Wherupon a con- 
sultation was held with the master of the 
hoase, and it was decided to frighten the lad 
into confession. So, at midnight, the minis- 
ter, the doctor, (he who kept the house,) & 
the school master, (who was called in to as- 
sist,) sat in solemn conclave on the judgment 
seat. They told the lad that he had stolen 
the money, and they were about to hang him 
' but if he would confess the theft, he should 
I not suffer. The lad protested his innocence; 

so they adjusted the rope, and asked what 
I message he would leave for his mother. 
"Tell her," said he, '.'I did not take the mo- 
ney, and that I have gone where I shall be 
better treated than I have been here." 

The)' then strung him up, the doctor hol- 
ding his watch in his hand to watch tbe se- 
conds during which life would remain. They 
then let him down, barely alive, the sweat 
pouring off him, examined his head phrenolo- 
gically, and told him lie was an honest boy, 
but that if lie ever told of that night's doings, 
they would flog him to death. The poor 
fellow was confined to his bed for six weeks 
after this, but no action could be taken against 
the parties by his owner, had this been desi- 
red, because the injured one was the only 
witness, *nd he was black . The parties found 
out afterwards (hat the boy was entirely in- 
nocent. 

Again, another minister, 

•'Who is, or was last winter, a candidate 



ed to me, that if she owned her, no money 
would induce her to sell her, she was so in- 
telligent and quick at work, and patient with 
the children; and I had noticed her disittter- 
rcstedway of getting along with them; it was 
not subserviency, but real goodness. Once I 
noticed she had a scar on her cheek,snd with- 
out dreaming that such a pleasant girl could 
have been flogged, I asked what had caused 
the scar? She answered with a half sad care- 
less air, "Oh, master did it with a cow 

hide." I was lying down to rest me, but 
these words brought me to my feet. This 
man I had actually shaken hands with a few 
days before, and he had, with his own hands, 
cow-hided this poor child over the head. 
"What had you done," I inquired, "to incur 
his anger?" Oh, I do not know," she replied, 
in the same hopeless tone; "he beat me so of- 
en, th at I cannot remember why he got an- 
gry this time; besides, this, isn't anything; he 
beat our cook till the blood squirted up on 
the ceiling." "What had she done?" "Oh, 
the edge of the kettle lid melted ofl', and mas- 
ter said she could help it." How does your 
sister get along, I inquired. "She was not 
happy; when Miss [the minister's daugh- 
ter] was sick, she always had a cow-hide be- 
side her to beat her (sister,) in case she 
should fall asleep instead of watching.,, 

Th : s girl was marked on her back, as well 
as on her face, and the truth of her state- 
ment was corroborated by the fact that when- 
ever her term of service expired, I found her 
frequently in tears, and full of apprehension, 
lest her master might conclude to have her 
stay at home the next six months. The re- 
lation was made in the same tone in which 
the slaves so often used to say to me, "We 
are only brutes you know." 

You, my friend, are well aware that these 
instances of cruelty are most trivial, compar- 
ed with what we are both acquainted with; 
but as both these parlies came under my 
immediate observation, and as both th e min- 
isters stand high in their sect, I should be 
glad to give our brethren across tne Atlantic 
to understand, yet more fully, "what manner 
of men are these" who claim their fellowship 
countenance, and hospitality 

Very truly yours, G. B. 



filing at every blow. After he was letdown 
and had gone out, I asked his master what he 
had been doing. He said he had run away 
the day before and gone to the races. 1 
thought it rather severe, considering how 
popular races are here. I was told that quite 
a number had been brought here that day for 
the same offence." 



Slaveholding Piety. — Here is a 
capital specimen. The account is 
condensed from the "Watchman of 
the Valley. 

Some op Slavery's Doings. — Rev. Mr. 
Forsyth, a Presbyterian minister of Kentuck- 
y, held as his slave, the wife, obtained her, 
and started for home on Saturday evening, 
having with him also another woman and two 
men. On Sabbath morning, the minister 
Forsyth, discovered the loss of two of his 
slaves, rode two miles and started a man in 
pursuit, and went home to his puldit labors. 
The pursuers overtook Penny and his com- 
pany at a ferry, where a fight ensued, with 
pistols and clubs but the fugitives defended 
themselves and got clear. Mr. Forsyth hav- 
ing preached &. made his last prayer, started 
off in hot haste, Sabbath afternoon, but found 
on getting to the ferry, that his property had 
gone to Ohio. Mr. Forsyth, consoled the 
the man whom he sent in pursuit, and who 
got wounded in the scuffle, by saying that 
"we were not long for this world, and that 
there would be no negro stealing in the next." 



and trampled under foot. The calculation 
will appear more striking when we state, 
that if only the fore-fingers of every one of 
these fourteen thousand millions of humaa 
beings were to be laid in astreight line, they 
would reach more than six hundred thousand 
miles beyond the moon; and that if a person 
were to under take to count the number, al- 
lowing nineteen hours a day, and seven days 
in a week, at the rate of six thousand per 
hour, it would occupy that person three hun- 
dred and thirty-six years. And, awful is the 
consideration! three hundred and fifty thous- 
and pipes of human blood have been spilt iu 
battles! Who would not exclaim with Bish- 
op Hall — "Give me the man who can devise 
how to save troops of men from killing, his 
name shall have room in mycalendar. — Thpre 
is more true honor in a civic garland for the 
preserving of one subject, than in a laurel for 
the victory over many enemies." Or, with 
Bishop Taylor, — " If men were only subject 
to Christ's law, then could they never go to 
war with each other." — Dr. Thomas Dick. 



INTEMPERANCE. 



Ignorance, vice, crime; domestic strife and 
discord; wretchedness and utter luin; murder, 
death, and woes unutterable. 



WAR. 



"Town deserted ; burning village; 
Murder; rape; destruction; pillage; 
Man compelled man's blood to shed ; 
Weeping ; wailing ; want of bread ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed with sword instead of pens ; 
Harvests trampled; homestecis burned ; 
This is war why is't not spurned. 



Slave Prison — Flogging.-- A Corrcs- 
pondant of the Lowell Courier, writing from 
Charleston, S. C. says : — 

"Since I have been here I have visited 
what is called the work T house, but more 
properly speaking slave prison; here are de- 
posited for safe keeping those who are brought 
to market for sale; also those that have run- 
away, rind are brought back here to be pun- 
ished — some are put to breaking stone, others 
on the tread mill. When I was in there 
were three men and one woman on the wheel 
and a driver standing with a whip in his hand 
this wheel attatched to mill stones, and in 
this way they grind their hominy. In a 
room in the building is the whiping appara- 
tns. While I was examining this, there was 
a boy brought in by Lis master to be whiped. 
It appears to be the custom heie, when slaves 
punished to 'bring them to this place, for 
which they pay one dollar. The boy was 
stripped naked, his feeet fastened to the floor 
his hands placed in a rope over head and 



Dishonered Gains. — A German 
Volunteer who lately returned to 
Chicago from the war, makes his 
boasts that he made $800 during 
one campaign of a few months, by 
plundering the bodies of Mexicans 
who had fallen in battle. 



Horrors of War. Since the creation of 
the world fourteen thousand millions of hu- 
man beings have fallen in the battles which 
man has waged against his fellow creature 
— man. If this amazing number of men 
were to hold each other by the hand at arm's 
length, they would extend over fourteen 
millions, five hnndred andeightythree thous- 
and, three hundred and thirty-three miles of 
ground, and would encircle the globe on which 
we dwell six hundred and eight times ! ! 

If we allow the weight of a man to be on 
an average one cwt (this is below the mark,) 
we shall come to the conclusion that six 
millions, two hundred and fifty thousand tons 
of human flesh have been mangled, disfigured, 



A TOUCHING SIGHT. 

Standing a moment with a friend on main 
on main Street, on] Thursday evening, we 
saw a spectacle which deeply stirred our 
sympathies. A man some forty years old, 
reeling with liquor, and bearing in his face 
marks of habitual drunkenness, came stag- 
gering up the sidewalk. To his hand his 
little son— a boy some 8 years old, clung 
with a tight grip of both his own. As the 
father, once or twice, while we looked, stum- 
bled and nearly fell, the little fellow braced 
his feet and exerted all his strength to save 
him, his eyes all the time streaming with 
tears, and heavy sobs breaking from his young 
breast. What a sad change of duties and re- 
sponsibilities ! The fathpr, impotent, not 
from the visitations of Providence, but from, 
his own vices, led and protected by his ten- 
der offspring whom he himself should pro- 
tect and lead! Oh, damnable vice! that strips 
manhood of its strength and dignity, and 
drenches the cheek of youth with premature 
sorrow. — Cincinnati Atlas. 



The Dronkar'ds Lament. 

'Alas! alas,!' said the drunkard, 

'I once had a home 
In a bright sunny vale, 

Where my spirit could roam; 
Where my kindred could meet 

On the festival day, 
But the spirit of whiskey 

Hath swept it away. 

I once had a father, 

The guide of my youth, 
An a mother who taught me 

Love, Temperance, and truth; 
In the grave they have mouldered 

For many a day, 
But I unto whiskey 

Hath fallen a prey. 



I once hud a sister, 

The pride of of our home, 
And a dear little brother, 

Who often would roam 
In innocent pasture,% 

In youth's blissful day, 
But I unto whiskey 

Have fallen a prey. 

And my dear companion, 

The guide of youth, 
The pride of my bosom, 

When softened by truth, 
That bright blessed spirrit 

Hath vanished away, 
For I unto wkkey 

Hath fallen a prey 

Alas! she still lingers — 

Those accents of ]ovc 
Fall soft — like the music 

Of Angels above — 
Me thinks her bright spirit 

Is hovering near, 
To brighten my moments 

And sweeten my tear. 

But I stand alone 

On the brink of the grave, 
From wo and from ruin, 

There is none to save; 
My friends have forsaken, 

My kindred have fled, 
And I shaflJ soon rest , 

With the slumbering dread. 

James, 

Riga, May, 184G. 

Indianapolis Free Press. 



THE FREEMAN 

BOONTON, NOV. 1 1S47. 



Read the following and then 
judge where the guilt lies for the 
continuance of the war in Mexico. 
Our government is sure to make 
offers of peace only on such terms 
as Mexico cannot agree to, because 
they are not only unjust, but in- 
viting in the extreme, and then 
make the refusal to come to terms 
a pretext for the continuance of a 
war of conquest for the extension 
of slavery. The wickedest, mean- 
est, and most dirty work ^o- 
ing on in the world, is now doing 
by this very christian nation. 

It now appears that the Mexican Commis- 
sioners offered to terminate the war by a 
Treaty nuking the Nueces the boundary to 
its Bourse thence due north to the actual soutli 
eastern frontier of New Mexico, thence fol- 
lowing that frontier up to lat. 37 deg. north 
thence westerly to the Pacific Ocean. - This 
would give us all Texas, with a strip of new 
territory 300 miles wide and some 1,400 long 
. — in all 420,000 square miles,— embracing 
California Monterey, the magnificent Bay 
and Harbsr of San Francisco with the large 
river Timpangos and all other streams empt- 
ying therein, almost the entire course of the 
Buenaventura and the entire control of some 
200 miles from its sourse of the Rio del Norte. 

It would give us a frontier on the Pacific 
of 800 miles with the only navigable river 
and the only capacious harbors between 
Nootka Sound and the Isthmus of Darien — 
in short, the very best portion of the entire 
Pacific coast, while the fearful convulsion 
which the question of Slavery Extension is 
certain to create, on the acquirement of a sin- 
gle foot of soil south of 30 30 would Lave 
been avoided — perhaps forever. And it 
is because our government, through its in- 
structed agent, refused these terms, that the 
two nations arc again engaged in deadly bulch- 
erv.—N. Y. Tribune. 



To will right, to do right, for its own sake, 
is Bcnvolence, is Religion, is Christianity. 



Liberty Candidate for 
GOVENOR. 
WILLIAM ROGERS, 

of Mercer. 



The friends of Liberty will perceive that 
we have published the ticket agreed upon at 
•the convention on the 14th. It will form a 
rallying point for all those who do not wish 
to vote for proslavery men, and those who 
do not go for parties that go for the war. 

AH who have this feeling must refuse to 
acknowledge allegiance to whigs and Dem- 
ocrats, for they both go for the war. The 
whigs shout in exultation over the bloody 
butcheries of our troops in Mexico, and when 
they condemn Polk and his administration it 
is because the war is not pushed on with vig- 
or sufficient to do up the work of Conquest 
and make a speedy settlement of the busin- 
ess at the expense of Mexico, in. favor of 
the slaveholding interests of the nation. 

Friends of Peace, Liberty and Justice, can 
you go for parties that outrage every rule of 
right, that go for every species of injustice. 
Come out from among them, be ye not par- 
takers of their sins, and vote for men who 
love Liberty aud justice, and will go for truth 
and right, Liberty, Temperance and Peace. 
Every man on the Liberty Ticket is true to 
all these things. 



$3* William Rogers the Liberty candi- 
date for Govenor of New Jersey, is a plain 
Farmer, a truly honest man, in" very reputa- 
ble standing in the community where he lives 
posseses a lilu ral mind & is worthy the votes 
of all who love truth, right, and impartial 
justice. Let him be remembered on the ,2d 
of November. 



The 1st Tuesday of December is the day 
appointed for the trial of the temperance 
of this State. Will not the temperance peo- 
ple of the state wake up and do their duty. 

Those who make and sell rum will undoubt 
-ably do theirs, and it will be a shame for a 
single temperance man to stay away from 
the Polls on that day. We have no 

doubt that by faithful and kind laborswith, 
many drinkers tney may be persuaded to 
vote No License. Many of them know in 
what perfect bondage they are to alcohol, 
and sincerly desire to have those bonds broken 
and with some kind encouragement will do 
as many have done in other states. Let Tem- 
perance men then not only bo faithful to each 
other and the cause but to the drinkers. 

Prepare for the contest in December. It 
is- high time to begin. 



fjf$* THE FREEMAN.— We have en- 
larged the Freeman a little, all that our Press 
would admit of; we have also made some 
improvement in printing it. Cannot our 
friends get us a few paying subscribers? 

There are many Jerseymen friendly 
to the cause that are capable, why can 
they not write a little for the Freeman. 



The quarrels among christians it is said 

made Olli'bon an infidel. 



LOOK OUT. How many rum-sel- 
lers, rum makers and rum drinkers have the 
Whigs and Loco's got on their Tickets for 
the Legislature and County officers this fall? 
Look to it, Temperance voters see if you 
dont find nearly all of that stamp If so, can 
you vote, for them and call your selves true 
men. The Liberty Ticket is made of stanch 
tee totalers, without even one exception, 
Why not try your hand at that? 



$3-> The Madison Journal ha 1 ? pulled down 
Us flag of neutrality, and runup the grand 
hailing; shrn of whig distress 



'All meetings of Slaves at any meeting 
house, or at any school or schools, for lear- 
ning to READ or write, in the day or nUjhl, 
shall be deemed an unlawful meeting. Vir- 
gin ia Code of 181 'J. 

How does it become necessary 
to pass laws prohibiting the teach- 
ing of cattle to read ? 



THE STATE LIBERTY 
CONVENTION. 

This Convention was held according to 
appointment on the 14th. inst. at Madison, 
Baxter Sayre was appointed Chairman, and 
John Grimes Secretary. 

WILLIAM ROGERS, 
of Mercer, was unanimously chosen as the 
Liberty candidate for Governor. 

The following resolution was then adopted 
and the Convention adjourned. 

Resolved, That we consider the invasion of 
Mexico, by the armies of this nation, as in- 
famously wicked, unjust, and uncalled for; 
and therefore it is the duty of this government 
to immediately withdraw all our troops from 
the Mexican Territory. 



MORRIS COUNTY LIBERTY 

CONVENTION. 

This Convention was held according to 
previous notice, and the following Ticket 
was unanimously agreed upon for this Coun- 
ty, for county and state officers. 
For Senator, 
Robert Sewell. 

For Assembly, 
Henry R. Hedges, 
Joseph Moore, 
George. W. Esten, 
Swain A. Condit. 

For Sheriff, 
Charles B. Norris. 

For Surrogate, 
Benjamin B. Griswold. 

For Coroners, 
John Grannis, 
Joseph O. Hedges, 
William Kingsland. 



LIBERTY ALMANAC — The Lib- 
erty Almanac for 184S, is published and for 
sale at 22 Spruce Street New York, by Win . 
Harnod. This is a well got up article, con- 
tains calculations suited to all latitudes in 
the U. States and in Canada, with a Far 
amount of important statistical and oth"r use- 
ful and interresting matter. Let it have a 
wide circulation. 

Ctr^ ANTI SLAVERY BOOKS AND 
TRACTS — a large assortment, constantly 
on hand and for sale at the office of the 
American and Foreign Anti Slavery Society 
No. 22 Spruce Street New York, by Will- 
iam Harned. 

g^The LIBERTY ALMANAC for 1S4S 
for sale the office of the Freeman, in Boon- 
ton. 

ffe. UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF 
SLAFERY, PART SECOND; — is a new 
book by Lysander Spooner, published by 
Bela Marsh, No. 25 Cornhill, Boston, price 
25 cents. Those who have read his first 
work on the same snbject will not need to be 
urged to procure the second. It is mailable. 
The two parts are sold single at twenty-five 
cents each, or together in one volnme for 50 
cents. 

AMERICAN MISSIONARY. 

This is the organ of the American Mis- 
sionary Association, and is published month- 
ly, at 50 cents a year, single copy; 10 copies 
to one address for$3,00; 15 for$4,00; 20, for 
$5,00; 25 for $6,00; and 50 for $11,00. 

It is published by Willirm Harned, No. 22 
Spruce Street New York. 



THE 

BUFFALO CONVENTION. 

This Convention was held on the 20th day 
as agreed upon. We have had an interview 
with the only Delegate from New Jersey 
who represents the meetings for two or three 
days as being conducted in great harmony 
throughout. The discussions took a wide 
range, and were conducted in kind spirit 
and it was discovered that nearly all Liberty 
men believe in the principles of the Liberty 
League, but thought it was not neccessary to 
make them apart of the Liberty party creed 
at this time. When the vote was taken for 
President, it stood we believe 103 for John 
P. Hale and -17 for Gerrit Smith, John P 
Hale of New Hampshire, was therefore de- 
clared the Liberty candidate for President. 

We have, no remarks to make untill we 
secure the full reports of the meeting. 



WHO PAYS IT? 
The President of the United States is al- 
lowed a salary of $25,000 a year. The 
Queen of England has for her private purse 
$300,000; household expenses, $862,000; 
salaries of household, $656,300; royal boun- 
ties, $65,000; pensions, 6,000; and some oth- 
eer matters which make up an aggregate of 
$1,725,000. Who pays ill 



A Volunteer's Advice. — The N. Y. Ex- 
press states that one of our recruits at the 
seat of war in Mexico, writing to his friends 
in the eastward, closes his letter saying. "If 
any person. ever asks you to volunteer, knock 
him doan With a c/«6.'" Poor fellow! 



$5* In 14 Counties in Western New York 
there were 424 less commitments in crimi- 
nal cases, in the year ending May 1, 1847, 
than in the previous year. This is attribu- 
ted to the beneficial influence of the No Li- 
cense law. The credit is no doubt due to 
this law, though it existed but one year. Our 
friends in new York got discouraged a little 
too soon. 

$3*It is said, and no doubt correctly, that 
the invasion of Mexico has already made a 
public debt for this nation of about one hund- 
red millions of dollars. Besides this, the 
whole revenue of the nation for the last two 
years, and the avails of an immense sale of 
public lands have been squandered in the 
same war. 

(h$> Father Mathew has pledged him- 
self to visit this country next spring. We 
hope there will be no mistake about this, for 
we do not know any one thing that would be 
so likely to wake up temperance people and 
give the cansc a permanent onward impulse, 
as a visit and a few months labor in this coun- 
try by Father Mathew. 

$5= Thomas Garnick, who went out with 
Mr. Raymond to assist at the Mcndi Mission 
in Africa, is dead. The whole responsibili- 
ties of the establishment now rest on Mr. 
Raymond. He is a self denying man and 
should be sustained. 

A select committee of the New York 
Legislature, has reported a Bill in favor of 
the abolition of Capital Punishments. 

#5?. PROGRESS. — A Cannon Ball has 
beeniinvented in Boston that immediately on 
leaving the cannon, throws several knives 0- 
pen on its surface, several inches long. 
This w ill no doubt help tear human bcinns 
in pieces and help on wholesale murder. We 
think our war and slavery-loving government 
should vote the inventor a pension for life. 

fc. TIGHT LACING AND REP NO- 
NES.— A bile medical wiiter of respecta- 
bility, says, that "tight lacing gives females- 
red noses." This no doubt is true. tJ **0* 
lacing is a species intemperance. 



DIED. 

At Pitsburg Pa. on the 4th Oct., Mrs. Jane 
.liiiington, wife- of John Milliugton. She 
recently removed from Boonton where 
she was much loved and respected! 



How TO; wove the World. — One day 
philosopher came to Athens, from a far 
country, to learn the ways of the wonderful 
reek's, and perhaps to teach them the great 
ore he treasured in his heart. The wise man 
card him:- sought his company in the gardens; 
Iked with him in private. The ypung men 
ved him. He passed for a wonder with 
that wonder loving people. Among those 
that followed him was the son of Sophronis- 
cus, an ill-fa vored young man of humble rank. 
— He was one of the few that understood 
the dark, Oriential doctrins of the Sage, when 
he spoke of God, Man, Freedom, Goodness, 
b£ the Life that never dies. The youngman 
saw these doctrins were pregnant with act- 
tions, and would one day work a Revolution 
in the affairs of men, disenheriting many an 
ancient sin now held legitimate. 

So he said to himself, when he saw a man 
rich and famous, — Oh, that I also was rich 
and famous, I would move the world so soon, 
rime are sins to be plucked up and truths 
' <ji be planted. Oh that 1 could do it all, I 
would mend the wold right soon. Yet he 
did nothing but wait for Wealth and Fame. 
One day the Sage heard him complain with 
himself, and snid, Young man, thou speakest 
as silly woman. The Gospel of God is w rit 
for all. Lei him that would move the world first 
move himself. He that would do good to 
men begins with what tools God gives him, 
and gets more as the world goes on. It asks 
Wealth nor Fame, to live out a noble life, at 
the end of thy lane in Athens. Make thy 
Light thy Life; thy Thought, Action; others 
will come aroaud. Thou askest a place 
to stand on to move the world. Foolish 
young man, take it where though standst, 
and begin now. So the work shall go for- 
ward. Reform thy little self and thou hast 
begun to reform the world. Fear not thy 
work shall die! 

The youth took the hint; reformed himself 
of all his coarsness, his sneers, of all mean- 
ness that was in him. His Idea became his 
Life; and that blameless and lovely. His 
Truth passed info the public mind as the sun 
into the air. His influence like morning, 



NUMBER OF NEGRO SLAVES OF 

CHRISTION COUNTRES. 

NORTIT AMERICA. 

V. States, . . . . ■ . 2,598,536 

SOUTH AMERICA . 

Columbia, ...... 152,000 

Brazil, ...... .2,500,000 



284,773 
55,000 
10,140 

600,000 



Peru, 

Surinam (Dutch), . . . 
Cayenne (French), . . 

WEST INDIES. 

Spanish Colonies, . . . 

French do 170,000 

Danish do 3S,000 

do. .... 17,000 
do 5,323 

AFRICA. 

Senegal (French), . . . 10,000 
Bourbon, do 63,193 

ASIA. 

Duch E. Indies, 30 000 



Dutch 
Swedish 



Total, 



. . 6,397,300 
Liberty Almamac. 



Who are the Hafpiest Men. — ^hey 
who live to benifit others — who are always 
ready with a word to encourage — a smile to 
cheer — a look to persuade, and a dollar to 
assist. They are never fearful lest a good 
trade or an excellent bargain should fall into 
the hands of a poor neigbor, but the more 
rejoiced, when such an one meets with en- 
couragement. 



A celebrated divine who was remarkable 
in the first period of his ministry for a loud 
and boistrous mode of preaching, he sudden- 
ly changed his whole manner in the pulpit, 
and adopted a mild and dispassionate mode 
of delivery. One of his brethren observing 
it, inquired of him what had induced him to 
make the change. He answered — "when I 
was young, I thought it was thunder tl 
killed people; but when I grew wiser, and I 
discovered that it was the lightning — so 
determined to thunder less lighten more in 
future. " — Emancipator. 

So we say, more light; and less thunder. 



From the Penn. Freeman. 
Extracts from a Letter addressed by a South- 
erner to his friend in the North. 

"Our friends arc firm and are increasing. 
All appear to be expecting that a tempest 
will burst. I have been (ravelling far South 
and find everywhere the same fear; all, far 
and near say if the North unite farewell to 
slavery! We have had two speeches deliv- 
ered here latly, one by a Whig, and the other 
by a Democrat, to a very large assembly. 
Both speakers agreed that we must elect a 
Southern President, and that he must be a 
Slaveholder. One of them had been on a 
four through the North, and he said the North 
was uniting, and was the strongest, and that 
if we did not take a strong stnucl and vote 
for a slaveholder for president, not only Tex- 
as, but the Southern States would be free, 
and the safety of our wives and children 
would be in danger. Pie said that the time 
was at hand when the great question was to 
be tried, and if we do not take a firm stand, 
our property is gone, with all our power. 
Genera! Taylor is to be the man; he cwns a 
hundred negroes. Both parties claim him; 
both the speakers ridiculed each ether's 
friends as anti-slavery men. They said that 
it (Abolitionism) had crept into the South, 
and we have everything to fear. 

The large slaveholder at the South unites 
with the rich man at the North, and rule the 
poor devils in the North, making them be- 
lieve that if the negroes were all free in the 
South, they would all go to the North; but 
every fool in the South knows better fhnn 
that, for if the negroes were all free in the 
South, you could not keep one in the North. 
Just as surely as they are not freed, in less 
than fifty years the whole North will be o- 
verrun with our runaways and with people 
carrying them there to free them. I have 
seen the Examiner; it is circulating in our 
part of the country. 

Convince your brethren that they are free- 
men. You have the right of speech we have 
not. Oh! if we were allowed to talk as you 
are, we would talk and be believed." 



>ERAJTCE. 



rrjs 




Domestic Peace- and Joy, Health, Wealth 
and lenn - Life. 



FiGHTiNG Parson. — We have seen it 
stated that one of the companies from Missis- 
sippi, at the battle of Buena Vista, was com- 
manded by a Methodist minister. Just be- 
from continent to coufinent, and the rich and I fore the battle commenced, and whilst the 



the poor are blessed by the light and warmed 
by the life of Socrates, though they know not 
his name. — Parker. 



Speaking of praise, Swift tells us it is like 
ambergris; " a little whil, and by snatches is 
very agreeable; but when a man holds a 
lump of it two your nose it knocks youdown. 



f Good old Mr Wesley said, ,He that is nur- 
turing self-love in a child, is nnrturing a dev- 
il.' We believe it. Mother, do you think 
of this when you are 'tipping off' that little 
daughter of yours, in all the gay, foolish frip- 

iery and finery of the day, making her as 
'oud as liftle Lucifer? You are murdering 

he soul, and planting a dagger in your own 

osom! — Lad. Free Press. 



TRUISMS. 

Tobacco distresses the land, the brain and 
the pocket. 

The smoker proclaims to the world that he 
has no thoughts or that they are disagreea- 
ble. 

Snnfr is no less dirt when accepted from a 
gold box. 

Were no animals slain for food, man would 
not slay his brother. 

Flesh is the stimulanf of anger: Fruit is 
the diet of love. 



troops were forming, it is said he delivered 
the following pithy prayer, at the head of 
his company : 

"Be with us this day in the conflict, oh 
Lord! We are few, and the enemy are many 
Be with us as thou wast with Joshua when 
he went down from|Gilgal to Beth-ho ron 
and Ajalon, to smite the Amorites. We do 
not ask thee for the sun and moon to stand 
still, but grant us plenty of powder, plenty 
of day-light and no coward:?. Take old 
Rough and Ready under special charge. A- 
men! M-a-r-c-h." 

His company performed prodigies on the 
field that day. — Exchamje. 



A Patif.nt Lad. "Ben," said a father 
the other day to his delinquent son, "I am 
busy now but as soon as I can get time I 
mean to give you a flogging." "Don't hur- 
ry yourself pa, 1 ' replied the patient lad, "I 
can wait." 



Productive little Farm. 

Mr. Meitrs at the meeting; of the New 
York Farmer's Club held on the 7th of Sept. 
stated that the committee on Farms had vis- 
ited the farm of the Messrs. Cooper, near 
Brushwick, Long Island. The proprietors 
are young men, having used thoiough culture 
and the best manures. The farm consists of 
30 acres; help feur men, and occasionally 
men, woman and children to pick. The 
products for the present season are as follows: 

They have supplied The New York mar- 
ket this season, with 

343 biish. Peas in the pod — vaveraging 75 
cents per bushel. 

1000 bush. Potatoes— price GS 3-4 cts. 
per bushel — 500 bushels remaining to be 
dug. 

1200 bush. Tomatoes at 50 cts. per bush- 



iWegive for the information of 
temperance voters, the first & sev- 
enth sections of the late law of the 
Legislature respecting Taverns. 

jrjEJSSEW IJVJi'S czittE TYf WJEISWS 

Our Legislature at its last session modi- 
fied the law respecting licensing taverns, oi 
which the people should be informed. 

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senafe and 
General Assembly of the state of New Jersey 
That the freeholders and inhabitants whi> 
arc or shall be qualified by law to vote 
at town meeting, shall have full pow- 
er, and arc hereby required to assemble 
and hold elections in the respective townships 
of this State, on the first Tuesday of Decem- 
ber next, and determine by ballot whether 
any license or licenses shall be granted wnh- 
in said township, authorising any person or 
persons to utter and sell vinous, spirituous, 
or other intoxicating liquors. 

Sec. 7. And be it enacted, That if it shall 
appear that, at any such election so held as- 
aforesaid, a majority of all the votes given in ' 
any one township shall be in favor of no li'i 
ceensc being granted, it shall not thereafter 
be lawful to license tbe sale of vinous, spirit- 
uous or intoxicating liquors in such township, 
until! such determination shall have been rc- 
xrscd by vote, as hereafter provided. 



el. 



'I am afraid that I shall come to want 
said an old lady to a youpo; gentkman, 

'I have come to want already," was the 
reply. 'I want your daughter !' 

The old lady opened her eyes. 



1200 bush. Bush Beans at 44cts. per bush 

el. 

75 bushels of wheat. 

They have growing for sale: 

4000 poles of Lima Beans. 

3 acres of Corn. 

1 1-2 acres of Turnips. 

1 1-2 do. of Cabbages. 

1-20 of an acre in Cayenne Peppers. 

And raised hay enough for their Stock. 

The amount of products already sold i: 
$2508, 75 cts. — the value of that growing 
and still to be sold is, we estimate, worth $ 
993,50, which makes the product of 30 acre 
$3498,25. 

This is a most gratifying instance of 



An editor way down east who- served four 
days on a Jury, says he is so full of law that 



duslry, 



what 
on 



Pan be done by well direetcd mil 
small farm, and should stimulate all engaged 
in the noble pursuit;, of agriculture, to make 
the soil under their culture do all that it is 
capable of performing. Generous manure- 
ing; skilful and cleanly culture and persevtr- 
ajice, is all that is required to make poor^eeils 
it's hard work for him to keep from cheatiugiat once fertile and productive.-- AmvritM 



Francis Search Hon go, died, a. d. 170:.-, 
aged 114 years, 10 months and 12 days. lie 
left behind him forty-nine children. He was 
never sick. His sight, hearing, memory. au.l 
agility, were the surprise all. At 110, 
having lost all his teeth, he cut two large cnes 
in his upper jav? one year before he dud 
he used for drink only water; never v«itK* 
strong waters, cofiee, or tobacco. His hab- 
its in other respects were temperate. — 23a!Ky 
.Livers. 

In the Miscellanea Cttriosa, you will' find 
a very remarkable observation of an old. -man 
120 years of age, without the loss of a moth, 
and of a brisk and livly disposition,.\<whosi> 
drink, from his infancy, was pure water. 



Died, on the 26th of June, 1S3£, at By 
bropk Jamaica, Mrs. Letilia Cox. She .out- 
lived the oiliest inhabitants in the parish fbi 
many generations. By her ac^euiit, she 
was a grown-up young woman at the time 
of the dis! ruction of Port Royel, by an earth 
rqualre. She declared that she r»er dmnk 
anything but water during the whok: of her 
life. She must have been upward of on - 
hundred and sixty years old. 

And old black woman, at Holknd Estate 
died eighteen mouths ago, at one-hrindrcd and 
forhj years' old. She also declared she bail 
never drank anything but water. — Jamaica 
Royal Gazelle. 

The temperance of the Brahtmns is so 
great, that they live upon rice or herbs, and 
upon pothirr* that has SfcfrtsitiVe life. If they 
tall sick, they count it such a mark of in' hi- 
peranee, that they will frequently die fron. 
sham:! and sullennes; many have tivd a hun- 



dred (llld. mint: ftr.n //«»/*•#// n/>rtr< 



From "The People's Journal," for June. 

CLEON AND I. 

BY CHARLES MACK AY. 

Cleon hath a million acres- 
Ne'er a one have I ; 

Cleon dwelleth in a palace— 
In a Cottage I; 

Cleon hath a do/on fortunes— 
Not a penny I; 

But the poorer of the twain, is 
Cleon, and not I. 

Cleon, true, possessed acres, 

But the landscape 1; 
Half the charms to me it yieldeth 

Money cannot boy; 
Cleon harbors sloth and dullness— 

Freshning vigor I; 
He in velvet 1 in fustian, 

Richer man am I. 

Cleon is a slave to grandeur— 

Free as thought am I; 
Cleon t't-es a score of doctors — 

Need of none have 1; 
Wealth-surrounded, care-environ'd, 

Cleon fears to die; 
Death may come he'll find me ready- 
Happier man am I. 

Cleon sees no charms in Nature — 

In a daisy I; 
Cleon hears no anthems ringing 

In the sea and sky. 
Nature sings to me for ever — 

Earnest iistner I; 
State for state, with air attendants, 

Who would change? — Not I. 



And if he^nufis, and smokes, and chews 
Till pig-tail quids are over shoes, 
Dear madam, grin and bear it! 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Interesting to the Friends of Free 
Produce — Northern Ricf — Gen Verplank 
the Commissioner to negociate a treaty with 
.he Chippewas, in speaking of the wild rice 
which grows abondantly in Minesota, says, 
it is better than the southern rice. The ber- 
ries are larger and its flavor is better; for 
when boiled and allowed to cool it forms a 
consistent mass like good wheat bread, and 
more nutritious. Any quantity of it grows 
on all the lakes in this northern country. 
The outlets and bays are filled with it. It 
ripens in the month of August, and is the 
main reliance of the Indians during the win- 
ter months for their sustenance.— Peen. Free- 



ly AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY. — The office of this Society is at No 
22 Spruce street New York. Its field of 
operations has hitherto been principally a- 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mendi Mission, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to extend its field. It does not receive 
contributions from slaveholdrs, and is highly 
deserving of support from the friends of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappenof N. Y. is Treasurer. 



{fc^The Boonton W. T. B. Society will 
meet every Monday evening at the Free 
Church. Thomas Riley President, Stephen 

Grimes Secretary. 

Boonton Aug. 24, 1847. 



SOXC Otf THE TOBACCO WORM. 

With ear -locks soapy and long, 

With whiskers frizzled and red, 
A loafer sat with a quid in his mouth, 

A spiling and inutteriug said: 
44 Work — work — work, 

These hands shall never pursue, 
While i can obtain a long nine to smoke, 

Or a plug of tobacco to chew," 

And he spits — spits — spits, 

When the morn is breaking bright; 
Spits — spits — rspits, 

When Sol has climbed his height, 
Spits — spits — spits, 

With days expiring gleam, 
And supperless falling asleep on a bench, 

Keeps spitting away in his dream. 

For in his dream he dreams 

It is by fate decreed, 
That he is a great tobacco worm, 

To extrip*ite the weed; 
And so he works away 

To make his conquest sure; 
A free and enlightened citizen, 

A snuli'er, and smoker, and chewer. 

At market, church, or mill, 

In business or in prayer — 
Stage coaches, cars, and barber-shops, 

Bar-rooms, and everywhere, 
He spits — spits — spits, 

Evening, noon and morn; 
And snuffs, and puffs and blows his nose, 

As a fishermen blows his horn. 

Sweethearts and wives, look here! 

Is this the man for you, 
Whose nose is only fit to snuff, 

His mouth to smoke and chew/ 
Spit — spit — spit, 

Oh, 'tis a nasty trick! 
Enough to turn any lady fair, 

Unless she be able to stomach a bear, 



Capital Punishment. — The great hy 
dra-head of the evil resulting from capital 
punishment, is its irremedial nature. Louis- 
iana allbrds a most striking illustration of this 
position. We quote from, recollection from 
some volume of the American Review. The 
tragedy occurred somewhere on the Missis- 
sipi river in Louisiana. Suspicions were 
fastened upon a respectable young man of 
havinj; niurdered a fellow lod*rer, at a tavern. 
The young man was tried found guilty, and 
condemned; when placed upon the scaffold, 
he read an able vindication of himself, again 
protesting in the name of God, that inno- 
cence which his fellow men refused to be- 
lieve When informed that his time was 
;ome, he broke wildly loose from those by 
whom he was surrounded on the scaffold, 
and rushed in among the multitnde, and in 
he most piteous manner crying for help, and 
repeating the assurance that he was innocent. 
He was soou again secured hy the sheriff, 
[ragged back to the scaffold, and, in the 
midst of the most piercing cries and heart 
rending shrieks, launched into eternity. A 
few months after, the tavern-keeper, on his 
death-bed, confessed his guilt, and proved 
the innocence of Boynton. — N. Y. Post 



PROSPECTUS. 
THE HERALD OF TRUTH. 

The Journals of the day may be divided 
into three classes — the Sectarian, the Parti- 
san, and the Popular. Of the fifteen hunred 
publications in our lard, I know but two or 
three which pretend to be devoted to the 
cause of Truth on all subjects, uurestraiiidd 
by sectarian or partizan interest, or by a de- 
sire, from selfish motives, to please the great- 
est number of readers. Those which are 
not controlled by some religious sect, or po- 
political party, or other society ofexclusives, 
are decidedly of the popular class, and will 
defend no cause, how ever good, if it be un- 
favorably regarded by the mass; be opposed 
to the general sentiment. Hence, the peri- 
odicals of the day. do not maintain an unre- 
served allegiance to Truth, on the triumph of 
which depends the greatest good of the hu- 
man family. The cause of truth demands 
Journals devoted to her interests, through 



{Jg^'There must be something wrong. 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burden, Dentist, 
published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, which we 
earnestly recommend to all those interested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth. It|should be read 
by every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



Seek Happiness. 

A wanted to be great; his ambition 

made him unhappy. One said to him, with 
words of wisdom that I shall never forget, 
'Seekest thou great things for thyself 7 seek 
ihem not.' Seek happiness. It is better t( 
be insignificant, and happy, than great, with 
•ut happiness. Seek happiness which is 
subjective, independnt of circumstances, first; 
ihen seek circumstances which will yield the 
most happiness, and not the most honor. In 
seeking happiness wc shall not run overoth 
ers; but ambition for greatness, makes bad 
work with the general interest — it crosses 
paths, and treads on the fallen. Every our 
cannot be chief; but every one can be happy 
and our own happiness, sought wisely, will 
not interfere with, but favor universal hap 
piness. Seek love, and not praise* — warm 
hearts, aud not cold admiration — ,the rest of 
a meek and lowlj' spirit, and not the dangers 
of exaltation. — Spiritual Magazine. 



THE DEVIL'S MAIL 



It is related in the Biography of the Rev 
Lemuel Haynes, the colored preacher, that 
some of his students having been slandered 
for their religious activity and zeal, went to 
Or a loafer enveloped in whiskers and hair I him with their complaints, expecting his 



ftg* PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
for 1848. — FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
I Nassau Street, New York, have published 
| and have for sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1S48. Besides the 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U. S., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Marti neau, Charles Dickens, Horace 
Greely, Thoma Wildey, Zachary Taylor, 
Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, Tom Thumb 
whose pages the thoughts of every candid I Dr. Sewall and Stephen Olin, with a brief 
mind can be brought before the public and and interresting sketch of the character of 
thoroughly canvassed. 

To supply, in part, this desideratum, is the 



each, considered in'a phrenological point of 

view. 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, * 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend of truth. 



Herald of Truth projected. It will be 
mphatically what its name purports,a Herald 
of truth on all subjects, without reflerence to 
the interests of any exclusive sect, party, or 
society, or to popular considerations. 

It will be devoted to the interest of Relig- 
ion, Philosophy, Literature, Science, and Art 
It will review such of the new publications 
as are of substantial value, and canvass all 
questionable doctrines that may be published. 

Philosophers have demonstrated the infi- 
nite Wisdom and Boundless Benevolence of 
God in contemplating His Physical Universe 
and it is time the same demonstration were 
made in relation to the mental world. In the 
former, the sublimest order is manifest, 

while in the latter, the debasement and mis- 1 CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
eries that afflict mankind, indicate thedepest j for sale at this Office. 

confusion and disorder. He is not respons- | — ■ - 

ible for the for the evils of the mental uni-j CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
verse, for man originated them, and hy man j of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuable light on the subject. 



Abominably sick. 

Ye dames who mean to wed, 

Come listen to my lay; 
Your charms from all tobacco worms 

Forever turn away. 
But if you wear the yoke, 

With resignation wear it, 
Nor sulk, nor scold, nor get the blues; 



sympathy and protection. After a pause, 
Mr. Haynes observed, 

"I knew all this before." 
"Why then," said one, ''did you not in- 
| form us? 

"Because," snid he, "it was not worth 
communicating; and I now tell you plainly, 
ince for all my young friends, it is best to 
let the devil carry his own mail, and bear his 
I own expenses. 



they can and will be removed 

The discussion of the laws of our mental 
and physical organizations, and the necesity 
of obedipnee to them, as the only mode of 
human regeneration, will constitute a partic- 
ular feature of the Herald of Truth. 

It will engage vigorously in all the reforms 
of the day which are founded in Truth, audi 
as it will "hope all things," and "believe al 
things," for the final triumph of Humanity 
over all evil, the only limit to its 
aspiration will be the entire redemption of 
the human race. 

The Herald of Truth is^ublished month- 
ly, in Cincinnati, containing eighty octavo, 
pages, neatly printed on fine paper. It will 
comprise two volumes annually, of 480 
pages each, and will be offered on the follow- 
ing liberal terms : 

One yearly subscription, $3,00; two cop- 
ies aycar $5,00; five copies per year, $11,00 
ten copies per year, $20,00; twenty copies 
per year, $30,00. The offer of twenty cop- 
ies for the extraordinary low price of $30,00 
is made to those alone who form a club, and 
order the work to the same Post Office. A 
liberal discount will be made to Agents. 

The Herald of Truth is placed on a firm 
basis by scveial individuals of great pecuni- 
ary power. It will appear promptly on the 
first of the month. 

Papers copying this Prosectus a few times 
will receive the work. L. A. H1NE, Ed. 



ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office among which are the fol- 
lowing. 

Memoir of Lovejoy, 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

SlaveVFriend 3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, <4 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Chonning on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mctt's'Sketches, 
Slavery As it Is, 



-for sale 



LIBERTY TACTS- 

at this office, 

Slavery and the Slave trade at 

the Nation's Capital, 
Facts for the People, 
Catcehism on the Mexican war. 







Truth invites full and free Discussion; Error shrinks from all investigation. 



Vol. 3 



Boonton, December 16, 1847. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS. 



Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
32 numbers 
5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



Si. AVE MT¥. 

Perpetual unpaid toil; no marriage, no 
husband, no wife; no parent, no child; igno- 
rance, licentiousness; whips, chains, scour- 
ges, auction sales and separations; an em- 
Lodyment of all the woes that the imagina- 
tion can conceive. 

fr^JuIy 13th, 1S47, at 10 o'clock A. 
M., (he UNITED STATES GOVERN- 
MENT sold at public Auction, in thej Dis- 
trict of Columbia, Two Women, for $530, & 
put the money into the United States Treas- 
ury. What have we of Ihe North to do 
with the government? Let it be remember- 
ed that this money goes to help pay the ex- 
penses of an aggressive war on agister re- 
public, for the acquirement of more slave 
Territory. 



The following; account of a kid- 
naping; transaction in violation of 
even the proslavery laws of this 
State, we copy from the Penn. 
Freeman. It should be read by ev- 
ry Jerscyman in particular. Would 
it not be proper for the people of 
Mount Holly to bring the subject 
of slavery into politicks enough to 
elect a sheriff and constables, and 
secure the appointment of Judges 
that would not disgrace the state, 
and outrage every feelinc; of human- 
ity 

SLAVE CASE IK MOUNT IIOJJLY. 

Seldom have we known an outrage the re- 
sdt of which filled our hearts with such in- 
expressible loathing and Jabhorence of the 
ooaductof its perpetrators. We regard Ihis 
case not only as a dis honor to the town and 
State, in which it occured, but the country 
and the race . 

The following clear and calm statement of 
tine facts has been prepared for the Freeman 
by * gentleman who was a witness of what 
lie relates, and whos veracity is unquestion- 
able. \tye hope it wil be read by every per- 
son into vhose hands it may fall, for if can- 
didly read, it must deepen the hatred of 
■slavery, and stimulate to work for its over- 
throw, aisd especially for the protection of 
our owm citizens from the clutches of the 
jnen-tbeives. 

"Oci Thursday, October the 8th, three per- 
sons known as Perry Hinson, Noah Hinson 
and their married sister, Rachel River, were 
enticed from their homes by Constable War- 
mer of Mount Holly, under falses pretences, 
and .©n their arrival in the town, were seized 
as the. "property of John Roth, of Cecil 
(County, Maryland., and taken before Judge 



Haywood for trial. Some of their friends 
being informed of this procedure, secured 
the services of R. T. Spencer and 
John R. Clack, Esqs, of Mount Holly as 
their counsel in the case. A trial by jury 
being demanded, and allowed by the judge, 
the hearing was post poned until Wednesday 
morning; the 3d inst. Mr. Slack being; too 
unwell to attend to the case, David Paul 
Brown, Esq., of Philadelphia was engaged 
by the defendants as Mr. Spencer's associate. 
The counsel for the claimant were Messrs. 
Stratton and Moffit, also of Mount Holly. 
On the 3d inst. a large concourse of citizens, 
among them a considerable number ofrespec- 
table colored people, were present at theCourt 
House to witness v trial. — At the onset of the 
case, lawyer Stratton attempted to prevent 
the cxersise of the right of the defendants to 
a peremptory challenge of three jurors, which 
attempt being overruled by the Court, three 
jurymen were challenged and the Sheriff of 
the county returned the requisite number to 
fill the vacancy. 

The claimant produced several witnesses 
to prove the identity of the persons claimed; 
one of whom was Noble Penington of Cecil 
county, Maryland, who swore that, as admin- 
istrator of the estate of the late John Roth, 
Sen., he jihad transferred the prisoners, as 
part of the property of said deceased Jto the 
son, who now claims them as belonging to 
him. He however presented no proof that 
he was the administrator of the late John 
Roth, Sen.; he produced no inventory of the 
goods and chattels belonging to the estate; he 
showed no decree of the Orphans' Court un- 
der which he professed to have acted; nor 
did he attempt to show that the persons claim- 
ed belonged to said estate. He said he had 
seen them at work for the late John Roth, 
and that they were employed on his farm at 
the time of his death, soon after which he 
made the aforesaid transfer, supposing that 
they belonged the estate to which he admin- 
istered. James Roth also swore to the iden- 
tity of the prisoners; had been brought up 
with them, played with them in his infancy, 
and since his fathers death had seen them 
occasionally at his brother's house. He had 
no positive knowledge of their having belong- 
ed to his father, nor did he know anything 
of the manner in wich they came into the 
possesion of his brother. He supposed they 
belonged to his father and to his brother, be- 
cause they lived on the farm most of the time 
they frequently lived elsewhere, were some- 
times in the employment of Mr. Jones, who 
livvd some distance off. He received no 
portion of his father's estate, there being 
none to devidc. It was insolvent 



cited decisions of the Supreme Court to show 
that the persons claimed must be proved to 
have been slaves, by the laws of the state 
from which they had fled, and that there 
must be a certified copy of the} laws of said 
State, produced as evidence of. the fact, which 
had not been done; further than this there 
had been no testimony presented to the 
Court and Jury to establish the fact of John 
Roth, Senior ownership of these or any other 
persons as slaves, neitherjwas there any le- 
gal proof of the title of the present claim- 
ant. He called upon the Jury to act as 
Jerseymen, and try the case in the manner 
prescribed by the laws of their own State. 

Mr, Brown followed with a stirring ap- 
peal to the Jury on the resonsibility of their 
position, being the first jurors who were ever 
empannelled to try such a casein this country, 
and he urged them to pause before they act- 
acted, and reflect serionsly whether the test- 
imony of the witnesses was sufficient to prove 
the legal right of the claimant to the prison 
ers. He was sure it was not; in fact there 
there was no evidence at all, there were as 
sertions in abundance, but no documentary 
evidence whatever, and he claimed that 
these defects in the testimony should be 
made available to restore to liberty to these 
unfortunate persons, who stood charged with 
no crime, save that of color. Mr. Stratton 
then followed in an ingenious speech, in 
an ingenious speech in which be tajd, 
he presented to an honest jury, the claim of 
an honest and worthy fanner of Maryland, 
who asked at their hands his rightful prop- 
erty, which had escaped out of his posession. 
He insisted that the claim was fully estab- 
lished, and declared it to be unnecessary to 
have the documentary and legal evidence 
that was demanded by the laws of New Jer- 
sey, of the defendants and closed by giving 
to the jury a full dose of the oil of flattery 
which seemed to have the effect that 'he no 
doubl desired, to wit: completely to soothe 
their consciences, and blunt their humane 
sensibility Under this influence they re- 
tired, without any charge from the judge. 

In about twenty minutes they returned 
with their verdict. At this stage of the pro- 
ceedings,, the house was filled to overflow- 
ing, and the hundreds, both white and color- 
ed who crowded the aisles and seals of the 
court room, were held in almost breathless 
silence for a few moments, waiting for the 
foreman of the jury to give in the verdict. 
This done an awful silence reigned in every 
bosom, and the multitude was, as it were, 
petrified with horror and indignation, at the 
sight of a jury of freemen in a free and inde- 



pendant State, who ronld so readily doom 

lined, the \ three hu Y> an bpLll S s to cml,ess s,ave, T' with- 
out the slightest tangible evidence to warrant 
their decision. Immediately the posse of 
constables who bad surrounded the prison- 
ers, essayed to remove them to prison. One 



evidence of whom amounted to nothing more 
than a confermation of the statement made 
by Pennington, and the younger Roth. No- 
body could prove whether they were ever 
slaves according to the laws of Maiyland. 
One witness said he had hired them of John 
Roth, and could show receipts, from him for 
money payed at different times for their la- 
bor. — On producing the receipts, the names 
of neither of these prisioners appeared u- 
pon them, and they, were unable to establish 
this fact. 

Upon these grounds the plaintiff' rested 
the case, and Mr. Spencer commeuced his 
able argument, that was delivered with an 
emphasis and feeling which did honor to his 
head and heart. He stated that the claim ant 



of them resisted, and a struggle ensued, in 
which those official ruffians resorted to the 
most brutal measures to secure their prey. 
The colored people left the room, and there 
only remained the officers and some sixty or 
seventy white citizens, including a goodly 
number of ladies, who bad come to witness 
the trial, and who would not forsake the op- 
presaed victims of brutal advance until their 
doom was irrevocably sealed. 

The officers continued to beat and bruise 
their victim, notwithstanding the appeals of 
a number of the by-slanders, until they bad 



had not made out his case according to 
requirements of the laws of New Jersey, and 



the I T ' ec ' n ' m securely with ropes, so that he could 
offer no sesislancc. Having the prise-net' 



No. 4. 



now on the floor, and tied like a brute ready 
for slaughter, the sheriff, as though inspired 
with the real chivalry of slave caching, flour- 
ished a pistol over his head, and threatened ' 
to shoot the fiirst man who came forward to 
the rescue of the prisoner, an d then orders i 
every colored person to leave the hmise immedi- 
ately, his eyes being so blinded with the lus- 
tre of his brave achievement, and his roinfl 
so oppressed with the dignity of his posit- 
ion, that he could not see that all had left, 
save the poor fellow who lay at his feet. 
These demonstrations of the extraordinary 
prowess, not being sufficient to convince 
himself that he was a second Napoleon, lie 
called for the National Guards to aid him and 
his brave comrades! John Roth rushed like 
a frightened manaic among the crowd, with 
a pistol in either hand, threatening and swear- 
ing at imaginary enemies, that beset him 
n every direction. The Judge 

oo, ordered all persons not assiling the ofli- 
eers to stand off snd preserve the peace. 
(Query, who disturbed the peace?) 
The National Guards were announced, 
entered equiped, with their weapons of death 
to overawe the humanity of the spectators 
and guard the spoiler in seizing his prey; and 
under their protection, the officers passed out 
with tliier bruised and pinioned victim. 
And now let us inquire, for what were all 
these guns displayed, all these pistols flourish- 
ed in the air! and all these oaths and impre- 
cations pronounced ? Tojsubdue poor doom- 
ed and enslaved Perry Hinson" Noble fel- 
low! he had more of the spirit of a ma) . 
and a braver heart than either of his foes:.* 
he struggled for liberty; he would rather have 
died on the spot than accept slavery, but 
brute force overcame him, and in the dark- 
ness of night the pirsoners were conveyed a- 
way under an escort of the military. The 
officers who have given themselves as aids 
to the slave-catchers shall have all the ben- 
efit and honor of their act. The jury were. 
Charles Stratton, Benj. Wilkins, Win. C. 
Shinn, John Fairholm, Phineas KMtfitide, 
Samuel Read, James A. Howell, John C 
Milbine, Wm. Pugh, T. Collins, Jos. W. 
Cole, and W. Braddock Jr. Let the people 
remember these names! and let them tick foi - 
get C. Collins the Sheriff*, Geo. Haywood, 
the Judge, Lawyers Stratton and Mofiit, the 
slave-cachers' counsel, and Consktdle Wai ■ 
ren. Their names are worthy to be frgif- 
tered in the same catalogue with John Roth, 
Pennington, Messrs. Woolfolk, and Slatter, 
the notorious slave-dealers of Maryland, an.!' 
we will help to give them the fame their 
conduct merits. 

Much was said by the counsel for the man- 
hunters, of the great humanity and kindness 
of John Roth, the claimant; of how well he- 
fed, and how lightly he tasked his slaves. 

But a person from his own county, who 
has known him from boyhood, says that he 
is a speculator in human flesh; that he buys 
slaves from different neighborhoods, (perhape 
of "insolvent estates,") to sell at an advanced 
price to Woolfolk, the notorious slave-dealer, 
and he makes his money by this traffic. 

There arc a few points in the ftffegoing 
narrative to which your attention 
is once more directed, to wit. the total 
want of legal evidence to prove the title 
of John Roth to the persons claimed, 
and the failure of the plaintiff to prove that 
the prisoners were ever slaves according to 
the laws of Maryland; kcontsmplaung t' v - 



tie**, you may j n Jo;*' <>f 'he verdict. When 
il w'.in pronounced, we believe it was to the 
disappointment of nearly all persons pressent. 
We really Joubl: wTTefner" ihc claimantand his 
a lies, and their counsel, anticipated such at 
wdiet themselves." 

[n addition lo the above letter, a private 
letter just received from a very respectable 
citizen of Mount Holly, says: 

"We have had a mourning time I assure 
the, since the trial. We were all at court. 
No one seemed to think it M ould be decided 
in favor el' the Southerner!, and when thejury 
gave in their verdict, people were utterly as- 
tonished. The poor colored people were 
taken by surprise, and, instead of closing 
round the prisoners as it is said they might 
have doae, and rescued them, they all rush- 
ed to the doors and windows, thinking, some 
sav, that the prisoners had escaped, and were 
ahead of them. We won: a little cheered 
the next day by a report that they were all 
sloped at Wilmington and put into prison — 
but the return of the escort put an end to all 
hopes. We said to each other, why in the 
world was not C. G., here.'' But it would 
h. ve done no good, for they had a jury 1 am 
told, whose sentiments they ascertained be- 
forehand. It will possibly have the effect to 
make some abolitionists — nothing else has 
been talked of at the .Stores k corners. Some 
of the Timbuctoo people have left for a place 
of greater safety. T. Mofftt looked as if he 
felt ashamed of his business, and said as 
litlle as possib le." 

Is it possible that the people of New Jer- 
sey will lamely submit to have their own 
citizens thus lorn from them by the hands ol 
kidnappers and land pirates? If so, they are 
unworthey the freedom they enjoy, them- 
selves. 



For the New Jersey Freeman. 
A Sketch from teal Life. 

On one of those cabn moonlit/hi nights 
in the month of August, wbeu the snn for a 
while had bid adieu to this side the globe; the 
evening had closed in all the calm serencty 
of a summer's night, the trembling moon had 
commenced her nightly task and was beauti- 
fully wending her way through the still smi- 
ling firmament above; all was still save the 
occasional cry of the caty-dids or the mourn- 
ful croak of the old frogs. Extending th< 
eye over this field of nature's beauties, it rest;- 
upon a solitary hut almost covered with 
trees, and at a distance ofahuudrcd yard* 
is seen a stately mansion. Striking is the 
conlra.st between the former and the latter, 
and equally different are the circumstaace.> 
of both. In the former sat an aged man, and 
by his side the companion of his loneliness, 
his wife. Upon an old chest, for they had 
no table, stood a glimmering lamp. The only 
furniture they possessed was a mattress of 
straw with a slight covering, one chair and 
an old bench, on which sat old Susan listen- 
ing with profound but painful attention to 
something related by her husband not very 
pleasing to either. To be brief, old John i. 
Susau were slaves. For 53 long years they 
had toiled on the very fields which surround- 
ed them, and by the sweat of thoir brows, 
they had purchased for the owner that ele- 
gant domain, and he, with his family, were 
at the price of the tears, the groans, and the 
bloidshed of the poor Africans, enjoying it. 

B it John and Susan were not alone in this 
scene of tribulation. God had blest them 
with a daughter, an only daughter. Unfor- 
tunately for her she possessed a more than 
ordinary gracefulness of person, and comeli- 
ness office; she had a tall easy figure, hei 
leatures inclined much toward the European, 
but her eye! her dark expressive eye, told 
the gazer a lofiy spirit dwelt withinjfbut her 
:;kiu was slightly tinged with the African, & 
this was enough for the prejudiced world, if 
:>he had an intellect like Socrates, or a spirit 
like Joan of Arc; still she was a slave, and 
therefore unworthy of notice. 

Time passed on and the girl was called 



from the fi.sld to the polished dressing room 
of her mistress. Her brain was of that kind 
which needs but little cultivation, and in 
course of time she managed to gather a good 
deal of what the worid calls refinement, and 
ibis improvement did not pass unnoticed by 
her mistress, and she began to dread that her 
maid might excel her. The consequence 
was, that anger, jealousy, and hatred took 
possession of her mistress' mind, and fell 
without mercy on the head of the unfortunate 
victim. "J shall sell her," said she in a 
stern voice to her husbond, "she is entirely 
too interresting for a nigger." "I shall sell 
her and let her take her chance in the south- 
ern market." Did the proud spirit of that 
girl quail under this awful sentence? Not a 
nerve was unstrung, not a muscle distorted; 
but a tear gathered in her keen eye and fell 
upon her work. She knew the fate before 
her, she knew she must be torn forever from 
her aged parents which was worse than death 
This was a dreary prospect, a dark picture 
to look upon. 

All retired and she to her lonely bed, but 
not to sleep, and before another sua had ris- 
en she had vowed she would be free. 

It was necessary to see the companions of 
her suflering, her father and mother. Could 
she leave them to the mercy of her enraged 
pursuers, could she bear the thought to have 
them suspended between earth and heaven 
with all the infirmities of old age to endure 
the iniliction of the cruel whip, for being ac- 
complices in her flight? This was a test she 
could not stand. # „ 

'Twas past midnight and all Was still! She 
crept f.-om her bed and slowly wended her 
way along the dark passage which led to the 
outer door. At last she reached it and it 
was not long before she stood in the open air, 
and in a few moments more she stood at her 
lather's door. "Mother," said she in a low 
voice trembling with emotion, "mother open 
[he door," and in trembling haste the door 
was opened, but the young girl was unable 
to speak, feelings w hich no pen can write 
choked her utterance, and she sank upon 
their bed of straw and wept aloud. The 
aged pair seemed panic stuck, to see her at 
such an untimely hour, but when the young 
^irl had gained her self-possession she told 
hem her determination to fly with them to 
some place of shelter before she should be 
separated from them forever. Who would 
toothc your dying pillow when I was gone? 
No my father, my mother you shall not di<- 
in this dark damp hovel, but I will by the 
Work of my hands procure you comfort. 

They tried to show her the situation slit 
•vonld be in if ouce. taken, the seeming impos- 
ibility of their escape; but all was vain, the 
motto was engraven on her heart, "fro.-dom 
jr death." 

Finally it was arranged; she should meet 
them at midnight, and a small boat would 
bear them on the hosom of the great waters 
it least a distance of 25 miles. 

She left them and reached once more her 
bed in safety. But no sleep closed her eye 

ill the signal for rising was g ven, and she 
heard tue angry voice of her mistress give 
her orders, but she heeded it not, and con- 
soled herself with the idea that tomorrow she 
should be free. It was a dark cloudy day, 
unusually so for that season of the year. 
iVight closed in with all the appeajance of a 
storm, but she wns not discouraged. All 
had retired to bed, and the wind blew with 

bn k forebodings of a fearful night; but she 
was firm to her purpose. Accordingly she 
rose, took no clothing save those she wore, 
listened attentively, all was still save the 
howling tempest, the hour had nearly come, 
when slowly and cautiously she descended 
the stairs, groped her way along the dark 
passage, a thousand apprehensions crossed 
her mind, would they expect her on such a 
night; would the little boat ever live on such 
a troubled water; who would shelter them if 
they should overreach the shore; this was a 
trial but she conquered it, and in a few mo- 



ments more stood in the pelting rain and s he 
reached the hut in safety. But what was 
her dismay when she found nothing prepared. 
They had never dreamed she would venture 
on such a dreadful night; but she urged and 
encouraged them and in fifteen miuutes they 
were on the beach. By the time the fugi- 
tives got a little distance from the land, the 
thunder roared louder than ever, and the aw- 
ful gleammgs of lightning seemed to threaten 
fire at every stroke, every wave seemed to 
drive them nearer and nearer the shore. In 
vain labored their weary oars; the boat lay 
and suffered herself to be tossed to and fro at 
the pleasure of the restless water. 

The inmates of the great house were a- 
roused from their slumbers by the howling 
of the tempest, and the mistress of that house 
called her maid to bring a light, but she an- 
swered not. In vain rang the bell, in vain 
she called, till at last exasperated and enra- 
ged she arose vowing to repay her for her 
neglect. She procured a light, whenjto her 
amezement and horror the girl had fled. In 
five minutes every soul in that bouse was on 
the search, thinking she had hidden from the 
rage of her mistress. Every corner was 
scanned, but she was not to be found. An 
instant search was made in the hovel old John 
but they had fled also, and the eye of the 
mistress was iustantly on the water, and by 
the help of the vivid flashes oflightning she 
espied a feeble little boat occupied by three 
There they are said she in fiendish delight; 
now to the boats and we shall soon stop their 
troublesome journey. The tempest roared 
louder, the lightnings flashed with greater 
violence, but still the little boat was seen at 
intervals. Five stout hearted men stood and 
trembled on the beach to enter thatawful con- 
flict. None dared to venture. They re- 
turned and told the story; it was impossible 
to lake them. But the order was'bring them 
or perish with them. The men were of that 
unfortunate class who have no choice, they 
knew that to disobey was next to death; ac- 
cordngiy three in one boat and two in anoth- 
er left the shore, the former struggled and 
struggled until within one hundred feet of 
that little boat, and another plunge would 
blast all the hopes of that brave giri. But 
a strange commotion of the element shook 
and shattered the armed boat till two of the 
persons sank to rise no more, and the re- 
maining one left them to their fate. 

God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, 
and he brought them in safety^to the shore. 
They secreted themselves among the rocks 
till the eveniug dawned, and then climhed a 
tree aud had the satisfaction of seeing their 
pursuers pass under them. 

Finally they reached a shelier, $ind that 
daugter by her amiable disposition and indus- 
trious habits, found many friends w hich en- 
abled her to support her aged parents, proved 
a blessing to the society ih which she stood, 
and will very likely in the day af accounts, 
stand among those who have come out ol 
much tribulation. 

M. W. 

Jersey City. 



FfiOin tha Penn. Freeman. I 

Let us listen to the testimony of Lewis 
Hayden, a fugitive slave from Kentucky. He 
comments on a letter signed "Kentucky," 
and published in the New York Tribune, 
which represents Mr. Clay as a friend to the 
colored race, aud unsurpassed "in ardent and 
efficient abvocacyof emancipation." These 
are his words, which wc commend to the at- 
tention of the followers and eulogists of Mr 
Clay; 

'I would like to ask the editor of the Tri- 
bune a question. It is this: if Mr. Clny had 
sold his wife and child, as he has mine, 
would he have suffered that Kentuckian's 
letter to have room in any part of his paper 
until Mr. Clay had released them, or, at least, 
made some effort lo do so. 5 What do you 
think he would say, Sir? Do you think he 
would soy, 'what the law makes property is 



is property.' Would that be his an- 

swer? That is Mr. Claf's. Then go to 
his plantation, ask the widow, Mrs. Todd, 
whose husband Mr. Clay, in 1844, tied up 
and left in the hands of his cruel overseer to 
flog. The poor man would not live to let 
him do so again, but put an end to his days 
by hanging himself. Mr Clay has not only 
made a widow of Mrs. Todd, but he claims 
her little children as^his own, and is now rais- 
ing them for the market. She is willing to. 
say in respect to her husband, that the weary 
are at rest were the wicked caase from troub- 
ling, for he'no longer hears the voice of his 
oppressor, while she is left to see torn from 
her her children, one by one, and that too in 
an uuexpected hour, as he tore from mef my 
wife^and child. Yes, it was at an unexpec- 
ted momentjto me when that deed was done. 
I was atjjmy unrequited toil when my poor 
wife came to me informing me V>f her haying 
been sold. Yes! sold by that friend of the 
colored race, Henry |CIay! Sold and gone! 
and from them 1 have never since heard a 
word. May God save us all from such a 
friend; and^may the editorjjofthe Tribune nev- 
er get into his cluches as a slave.' 

Does the editor of the Tribune say Amen 
to that prayer? Docs he not shudder at the; 
idea of his wife and child being in the ruthless 
graspjof such a man? Does he think him 
fit to rule a nation of feemen? We cannot 
ask for "justice lo Henry Clay," if the law 
of "Like for Like" be Justice, as Jrnoralists 
a id law-givers teach, for we do not desire 
that the measure whichfhe has meted to oth- 
ers, shall be measured unto him again. We 
have no wish;thathe should be 'visited' with 
so fearful retribution of his deeds. We 
would'not tbat[the agony which he fhas in- 
flicted on hnman hearts, by sundering the 
holiest ties of |Iife, by [degrading the lofty 
soul to the condition ofa piece {of mereantfize, 
sdould pour its lava tide into his own bosom. 

We would not that his home should be 
desolate, as he has desolated the]. homes of 
others. We do wish him a higher boon than 
the presidency of the Uuited States, even a 
heart filled with penitance for the wrongs 
which he has done to his brethren, and an 
earnest desi.e to "do what little he may for 
their restitution. Wc wish that he may yet 
join heartily in the cry 

Justice to the Slave! 



ALABAMA — The whole white population 
of Alabama in 1810 was 335,1 S3. The num- 
ber over 21 years of age that could| neither 
read nor write was 22,592. Ignorance is one 
of the legitimate fuits of Slavery. ,*h. 



Sand Millers. 

l!/nt!U yfllj Vn V ' li J"_l. | I ' ' blfff 
There is a class of poor whites in the Car- 
olinas, and most of the Southern States, pe- 
culiar injeharacter, and unknown generaly 
to the country. They are called Siand-TIill- 
ers. They are so called, because they clust- 
er together in the poorest regions, and they 
live hunting, fishing, raising a little stock, 
making tar and charcoal, and attending jioul- 
try. They are very igronant. Not one in' 
fifty can read or writejand what is more they 
change not; as time winnows down the old, f 
and supplies their places with the young. As| 
the sire so is the son. — Louisville Examiner. 

The Editor of the Examiner is a .South 
Carolinian. He proves beyond all cavil! 
that slavery, and nothing but slavery, produc-l 
ed and perpetuates this wreched state of 
things among the poor white laborers of the 
South. 



&Lf*Dr. A. Clark said if he wore to 
offer a sacrifice to the devil it 
should be a roasted pig stulled with 

tobacco. 

Statistics of the Methodist Epis-J 
copal Church for the year 184"^ 
show a decrease of 12,741 mem 
bers for the last year. 



THE FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, DEC. 16 1847. 

To will right, to do right, for its own sake, 
is Benvolence, is Religion, is Christianity. 



THE 

BUFFALO CONVENTION. 

This Convention we believe was conduct- 
ed in excellent order and spirit, and although 
it was composed of Liberty League & Liberty 
Party men they all agreed harmoni ously on 
the subject of slavery and entered thorough- 
ly into the discussion of those points which 
divide the two parties of anti-Slavery men. 

John P. Hale was nominated for Presi- 
dent.. We shall not commit ourselves to go 
for him at present. We well remember 
when C. M. Clay was regarded by abolition- 
ists as a true anti-Slavery man. We were 
censured by them when we doubted the sin- 
cerity of his devotion to the cause of freedom. 
Where is he now? He was regarded as true 
as John P. Hall is now or nearly so. We 
have a high degree of respect for Mr. Hale, 
and expect much of him, but must see a 
little more of him before we can promis him 
a vote. He raus-t do better this winter, than 
the Senator from New Hainshire did last win- 
terer we shall lay him aside. 

We believe he will, we think he is a true 
man, and expect great things from him, but 
must see him farther proved. -Again, we 
think the convention has in a measure repu- 
diated progress in vetoing the measures pro- 
posed by the League. What ground we 
shall take in reference to this matter, we 
cannot yet say. We believe in the unity of 
reform and we think that one part of a great 
werk cannot go on to a successful completion 
without the other parts. We however are 
assured that the members of that convention 
pearly or epiite all, believe in the doctrines 
of the league, and refuse to incorporate them 
on the ground of their inexpediency, and 
think ihcy all go along with the "one idea" 
any how. W T hy not own it then? If we ever 
vote with a party that does not recognize its 
duty in reference to all the claims of justice 
it will be only for " this once" not however 
in the whig sense of that phrase. 



A call for a "World's Reform Convention 
to be held in the city of New York com- 
mencing on the fiirst Monday of Junc,lS4S," 
has been issued by Arnold Buffium and oth- 
ers. It is "to be composed of delegates of 
both sexes, chosen by the friends of Reform 
in all christian lands, for the adoption of meas- 
ures wisely calculated to accelerate the pro- 
press of improvement, by the abrogation of 
all institutions, customs, and circumstances, 
which stand in the way of universal advance- 
ment in knowledge, virtue, and happiness; 
preparatory to the prevalence of that religion, 
which gives meat to the hungry, drink to 
the thirsty, clothing to the naked, and a home 
to the houseless stranger; and finally, giving 
to its possessor a home in the mansions of 
eternal glory." 



Help one another. — The race of man- 
kind would perish did they cease to aid each 
other. From the time that the mother binds 
the child's head, till the momenti'that some 
kind assistant wipes the death damp from the 
dyiu"-, we cannot exist without mutual help, 
llnerefore, who neecijaid, have a right to ask 
il from their fellow mortals; no one who 
holds the power of granting can>cfuse with- 
out suilt. — Sir Walter Scott. 



Public Discussion. 

The following Question will be 
discussed on Saturday, Dec. the 18 
inst in the Free Church in Coon- 
ton, at half uas£ 0" o'clock, in the 
evening.. 

■ Are the Rechabite Societies de- 
serving' the countenance and sup- 
port of Philanthropists and Kepub- 
ublicans? 

The Citizens generally are invi- 
ted to attend. 




"My dear if the sacrifice of my life would 
please you, most gladly would 1 lay it down 
at thy feet !" 

"Oh, sir, you are two kind ! but it just re- 
minds me that it would gratify me by discon- 
tinuing the use of tobacco.' 1 '' 

"Can't think of it. It's a habit to which 
I am wedded." 

"Very well sir; since this is the way in 
which you sacrifice your life for me, and as 
you are already wedded to tobacco I'll take 
care that you are never wedded to me also, 
as it would be bigamy." 



Southern Justice. — A Court in South 
Carolina has receently dec -ided that any one 
of Indian descent is a colored person, and 
therefore not a competent witness in the 
courts of Justice in the South! Under this 
decision, John Randolph, were he alive, 
would be placed on a level with his slaves. 

Lib. Standard. 



ft-WATER CURE— Although we arc 
not prepared to give all the credit to Hydro- 
pathy that is claimed for it by its friends, we 
are firm in the belief that the real value of 
water, simple pure water, as a means of pre- 
venting and curing, disease, is appreciated 
by few in this world, and we are rejoiced to 
see the attention of the people turning to- 
wards it, as a means of health. We are 
willing to place it at the head of the list of 
articles that are used for the preservation aud 
restoration of health. 

We have on our tabic the Water cure Re- 
porter published by F.D.Pierson M. D.& C. 
H. Weeker M. D. No. IS &20 East four- 
teenth St. N. Y. monthly at 50 cents a year, 
devoted to the treatment or desease by the 
Water Cure system. 

We have also the Green Mountain Spring- 
published monthly at Bratileborough Vt. by- 
Robert Wesselhaft M. D. devoted to the in- 
vestigation of Water Cure, diet and Health) 
either of winch afford light on the subject for 



Domestic Pe«ce and Joy, Healthy Wealth 
and long Life. 



all those who are desirous of knowing 
value of Water. 



the 



Tbq Dejawarc Abolitionist. — This is 
the tile of a new antiSlavery paper just star- 
ted in Delawre. It is published semi-month- 
ly by James B. Brook for^the Delaware anti- 
Slavery Society semi-monthly at 25 cts. a 
year] The number before us is well filled 
with profitable matter, and will no doubt do 
7»: a- good work for Liberty. 

j Delaware is fast preparing to be a free 
Slate. It has only 2,300 slaves, and the 
political papers of the State are far ahead of 
th/ise in Now Jersey in discussing the sub- 
ject. Then; is great reason to look for a 
speedy redemption of that State from the 
guilt of slave-holding L/ul alas for New Jersey 
she is joined to her idols. 

^WANTED. — A few scores of rowdies 
of all ages, sorts, and sizes, to assemble a- 
round church doors in time of meetings, to 
stamp and make all sorts of noises, open- and 
shut doors,frun out and in during meeting?, 
and then yelp like indians in the streets after 
meetings, assault the peaceable and insult 
the females. All applications must be made 
at the church doors, when their names will 
he registered for the benefit of the public 

oitut sol - -» ! -A ",;/ a r i ' ^'4\ \\ y 

The people of Western Virginia are mak- 
ing a. strong move in favor of emancipation 
and they will accomplish something todi 
They are heartily sick of that "bitterest 
draught from the chalice of the destroying 

■ * r ^rigel'' and mean to be rid of it. 



Sir Robert Peal is saicpto Le worth ninety 
millions of Dollars. 

A new paper has just made its appearance 
in Hamburge, to advocate. the principles 
of free trade in Germany. It is supported by- 
line leading merchants of the city of Ham- 
burge. 



ENTERTAINMENT. 

The Ladies of the Free Church 
will have a 

F«1IR , 

in the Brick Carpenter Shop in 
the Factory yard. It will be open- 
ed on the 24th inst. at 1 o'clock 
P. M., A supper will be provided 
on Christmas eve and a Dinner on 
Saturday. 

A great variety of useful and 
fancy articles will be for sale. 

Boonton Dec. llth 1847. 



DIED. 

At Montville on Tuesday Nov. 30th Mrs- 
Lydia V r an Ordcn in the 65th year of her 
age. 

In Boonton on the 24th Nov. Peter Bran- 
igan aged 20 years of ship Dysentery. He 
had only been in America two or three 
weeks. 

At Boonton, on the] 0th. inst, Mary, 
Daughter of John Dagen, aged two years and 
5 m onths. 

Near Boonton on tiie 10th Nov. Charles 
Archabald infant son of James Duker. 



THE NATIONAL ERA: 
WASHINGTON CITY, DlbT. OF 
COLUMBIA. 

C. EAILEY, EDITOR; J. G. W1UTTIER, CORRi 

PONDING EDITOR. 

L. I*. NOBLE PUEL1SIIEK. 

The Leading purpose of this Journal is, the 
discussion of the cmesitou of Slavery, and 
the advocacy of (he main principles of the 
Liberty Party. Due attention is given to So 
cial and Political Questions of general impor 
tance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 
to be overlooked. 

It aims to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in volitions or discoveries 
affecting the progress of Society; of public 
documents of permanent \alue; and, during 
the sessions of Congress, to present such re 
ports of its procedings as will convey a cor- 
rect idea not only of its action, but of its 
spirit and policy. The debatas on the ex 
citing subjeeU' of Slavery and the Mexican 
War, expected to arise in the next Congress 
will occupy a'la'rge share of its columns! 

Arrangements have been made for extend 
ing and enriching its already valuble Depart 
ment of Home and Foreign Correspondence 

It is printed on a m.-immoth sheet, of the 
finest quality, in the best style, at $2 a year 
payable hi adrance. 

The generous spirit in which the Ep.a has 
been welcomed by the Publtc Press, and 
the very liberal patronage it has received 
this the first year of its existence, encourage 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub 
scription list.. 

It is desirable that subscrptions be forward- 
ed without delay, so that they may be enter 
ed before the approaching Congress.' 

Adpress L. P< NOBLE, 

Publisher of the Maternal Era Washhuilon, 

D. C. 



_ . 

A GENUINE TEE-TOTALLER. 

Passing a few days since in the steam-boat- 
Telegraph, between New Bedfoid and Nan- 
tucket, the subject of temperance was under-- 
discussion, when one of the passengers re- 
marked, that if we wished to see a thorough 
going temderanoe man, we might in the per- 
son of Captain Phiney. On the suggestion, 
another of the passengers inquired of Captain 
Phinncy whether he did not use ardent spir- 
its, to which he replied, "I never drank a 
tea-spoonful of rum, brandy, gin, or any other- 
dent spirit, nor of wine, cider, or 'beer; I 
never smoked nor took snuft; and I never- 
drank either tea or coffee." — "But," says a 
passenger, "what do you drink with your 
breakfast '"— "Cold Water!'* was the an- 
swer. "And what with your dinner? — 
u Cold leaterP' 1 — "And what with your sup- 
per?"— " Coid watir!"— Well says he, "but 
what do you do when you are sick?" — ''I 
never was sick in my life," was the ready 
and instructive reply of Capt. Phinny; and 
we could not but reflect how much of hu- 
man suffering and woe, how much of all the 
ills that flesh is heir to, might be avoided, if ' 
people would only adopt the abstemious haft* 
its which are adapted to our condition, and, 
like Capt. Phinney, conform mor nearly than 
they do to the immutable laws of our phys- 
ical nature. — TVorchcstcr Spy. 



Kidnapping Again in West jer- 
sey. — On Friday morning about 
sunrise two ^trau»ers went to the 
house of A'obcrt Tete, in Hopewell 
Cumberland Co. and took off his 
Avife and child. Who they were, 
(says the Bridgetown Chronicle.) 
where they were from, or where 
they went to, wc have not been, a- 
ble to learn, Robert was hi town 
at work, but was soon informed of 
his loss. 



THE LI CENSE ELECTION. 

The result of the late election in the north- 
cast counties of the State has been better 
than we expected. 

In Essex, Newark gives S19 for no license. 
Belleville. Caldwell, Bloomfield, Clinton, 
Elizabethtown, New Providence, Orange, 
Plainfield, Railway, and Westfield give large 
majorities, avaraging about two one for No 
License; Livingston, Union and Springfield, 
small majorities for License. 

In Morris six of the Eleven Towns have 
gone for No License. Pequanuc 71, Chahtam 
•10, Morris 172, Mendham CO. Hanover J31 
Randolph 9 for No License and Chester 3, 
Washington 99, Roxhury 2 Jefferson 4:> 
Rockaway reported 72 for License. 

In Passaic Patterson gave G12, and Man- 
chester 202 for No License. The other towns 
we nt for No License one being a tie. 

In Hudson. Jersey City, Van Vorsk and 
S. Bergen for No License, the other To.wns 
went for License. 

In Sussex, all the towns went for License. 

Warren, all for License except- Bel vidcre. 

Hunterdon one town went for No License - 
by b majority, all the rest for License. 

The fSonthcrn and Western part of 'the 
State has it appears gohc generally for Li- 
cense. 

Trenton and Camden ha3' gon e for No Li- 
cense. 

It will be observed that all the large towns 
in the North West Corner of the State have 

O .VlO'Jf Oi. Yew '( Vltl'fciV'V riiyt fluff 

gone for No License. Jersey City, New- 
ark Paterson, * Eikiebelhtown, Morristown 
Rahway all for No License. 

Now let us see if the law will be enforced. 



ivrjtilsu hue ;yy> tern lo ygftq lull »•> Xitumn 

We could not *.-t our paper out the first of 
the month and so we coftrtuded to TV-: it till af- 
ter the Electiun. 



HYMN. 

Hush the loud cannons's roar 

The frantic warrior' call! [gore? 
Why should the earth be drenched with 

Are we not brothers all? 

Want from the wretch depart! 

Chains, from the captive fall ; 
Sweet mercy, melt the oppressor's heart 

Sufferers are brothers all? 

Churches and sects, strike down 

Each mean partition wall! 
Let charity unkindness drown — 

Christians are brothers all. 

Let love and truth alone 

Hold human hearts in thrall, 

That heaven its work at length may own 
And men be brothers all. 



WAR. 



"Town deserted ; burning village; 
Murder; rape; destruction; pillage; 
Man compelled man's blood to shed ; 
Weeping ; wailing ; want of bread ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed with sword instead of pens ; 
Harvests trampled; homesteds burned ; 
This is war why is't not spurned. 



A Georgian paper states that the steamers 
Fashion and Beaufort were lost on a voyage 
from New Orleans to Vera Cruz with two 
Companies of Georgia mounted Volunteers 
aboard. 



A Horrid Sight. — One of the Surgeons 
of the Army, (who has since been himself 
dangerously wounded, )writing to friend af- 
ter the battles of Conteras and Ghurubusco, 
says: 

"After operating with my associates till 
three o'clock in the morning, I left the build- 
ing of which I had made a temporary hospit- 
al, to take an hour's rest in the open air. / 
turned round to look at my amputation tabic; 
under it was a perfec. I heap arms and legs; and 
looking at myself, I was covered with blood 
from head to foot." — 



#3»It is Estimated that 9,000,000,000 of 
human beings have died since the birth of 
Christ by war. 



$3^> Of the South Carolina Regiment 
which left the United States about nine 
months -igo, numbering nearly eleven hun- 
dred, lroni Eighty to ninety only were left 
to enter the City of Mexieo- 



The following from the British 
and Foreign Anti Slavery Report- 
er shows in what light the present 
war with Mexico is viewed in Eu- 
rope. 

"The brigands who form the American 
army have at length, after a series of bloody 
battles, become masters of the city of Mex- 
ico. It remains, however, to be seen, wheth- 
er they will be permitted to maintain their 
position, or whether that city may not be 
come their sepulchre. An exasperated pop 
ulation, whose country has been invaded, in 
defiance of the obligations of justice, and for 
the most wicked of purposes, may yet exact 
rterahle revenge. We are no advocates for 
war, but certainly if any people were ever 
justified in taking the sword against their 
enemies, it is the Mexicans. The whole of 
civilized Europe has pronounced its condemn- 
nation of the atrocious war in which they 
are now engaged. It will be stamped with 
infamy on the page of history; and believing, 
as we do, in a retributive providence, we 
have nodonbt, that, sooner or later, a fear 



ful expiation will be demanded of the United 
States. 

The war had its origin in the basest treach- 
ery and fraud. The whole history of the an- 
nexation of Texas to the United States, 
proves that the men who engaged in it, were 
destitute of all principle, reckless of all obli- 
gations, unscrupulous as to means, and add- 
ed the vilest hypocrisy to their criminal pro- 
jects. Texas they would have; it was 
necessary to the security of the Southern 
States and the preservation of slavery; but 
having obtained Texas partly by force and 
partly by fraud, they cast a longing eye to- 
wards the adjacent provinces, their object be- 
ing the same — to extend the domain of slave- 
ry, or to intrude it again on territories, where 
it had long since been abolished^ and now, 
flushed with victory, irritatedjthat their op- 
ponents will not submit to their terms, they 
propose to extend their dominion over k lhe 
whole of Mexico until they have the Pacific 
as well as the Atlantic ocean, to wash their 
coasts. For this purpose, it is reported, 
fresh armies are to be recruited and despatch- 
to Mexico to compel, by force of arms, en- 
tire submission to the invaders. 

Tne Mexicans, we perceive are not averse 
to peace, on what they conceive to be honor- 
able terms. They feel, probably, that they 
are unequal, both in physical strength and 
resources, to their enemies, yet they arc un- 
willing, in any territory they may cede or 
sell, that the Americans should introduce the 
curse of slavery; they r , therefore, make it a 
condition, that this shall not be done; and, if 
we mistake not, there is a growing determina- 
tion among the better class of Americans, 
that, whatever territory! may henceforth be 
annexed to their country, it shall be free 
from that deadly evil. 

Mr. Webster, in a remarkable speech re 
cently delivered, vigorovsly denounced the 
Mexican war — advises that an effort be made 
in Congress to stop the supplies unless Pres- 
ident Polk can show that the war is prosecu 
ted for no purpose of acquisition or dominion 
— announces the certainty of a Whig major 
ity in the House of Representatives, and 
mentions terms on which his party would 
make peace with Mexico, which are nearly 
identical with those offered by Santa Anna to 
Mr. Trist, and refused by him. But in ad- 
dition to the Whig party, and, we may add 
not a few of the Democratic party also 
there is a large body of the inteligent and 
pious members of the Christian churches of 
the north, who look on this murderous war 
with feelings of the deepest abhorence, and 
upon the men who caused and who sustain it, 
with sacred indignation and horror. They 
feel that an aw-lul amount of {responsibility 
has been incurred by their rulers; that the 
blood wihch has been so wantonly shed will 
be required of their country; and that the 
attempt to build up slavery by such means 
only adds deeper turpitude to the iniquity of 
an unprovoked war. These are hopeful signs 
It is impsssible, we think, with the public 
sentiment of Eu-xope so clearly expressed a- 
gainst the invasion of Mexico, and the in- 
creasing opposition of the best citizens of the 
United States to it, that the war can belong 
continued, or that the pro-slavery party with 
whom it originated, will be long permitted to 



AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY.— The office of this Society is at No 
22 Spruce street New York. Its ! field of 
operations has hitherto been principally a- 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mcndi Mission, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to extend its field. It does not receive 
contributions from slaveholdrs, and is highly 
deserving of support from the friends of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappan of N. Y. is Treasurer. 



The BOONTON W. T. B. Society will 
meet every Monday evening at the Free 
Church. James^S.Norris President, Malcolm 
L. Grimes Secretary. 

Boonton Not. 24, 1847. 



PROSPECTUS. 

THE HERALD OF TRUTH. 



eturn the power with which they have been 
temporarily invested, aud which they have so 
much abused. 

However much we may deplore this bar- 
barious war, we cannot bring ourselves to be- 
lieve that it will be permitted to issue in the 
further enslavement, and degradation of the 
human race, but, on the contrary, we cherish 
the hope that it will thoroughly awaken the 
consciences of the American people in behalf 
of the millions who sigh and groan in their 
land, by reason of oppression, that they will 
show the system of slavery no quarter, until 
they have compelled its abandonment as the 
foulest blot on their national character, and 
the greatest outrage they could perpetrate on 
the fights of humanity and on the laws of 
God 



The Journals of the day may be divided 
into three classes — the Sectarian, the Parti- 
san, and the Popular. Of the fifteen hunred 
publications in our land, I know but two or 
three which pretend to be devoted to the 
cause of Truth on all subjects, uurestrainad 
by sectarian or partizan interest, or by a de- 
sire, from ^selfish motives, to please the great- 
est number of readers. Those which are 
not controlled by some religious sect, or po- 
political party, or other society ofexclusives, 
are decidedly of the popular class, and will 
defend no cause, how ever good, if it be un- 
favorably regarded by the mass; be opposed 
to the general sentiment. Hence, the peri- 
odicals of the day. do not maintain an uure- 
served allegiance to Truth, on the triumph of 
which depends the greatest good of the hu- 
man family. The cause of truth demands 
Journals devoted to her interests, through 
whose pages the thoughts of every candid 
mind can be brought before the public and 
thoroughly canvassed. 

To supply, in part, this desideratum, is the 
Herald of Truth projected. It will be 
emphatically what its name purports,a Herald 
of truth on all subjects, without refference to 
the interests of any exclusive sect, party, or 
society, or to popular considerations. 

It will be devoted to the interest of Relig- 
ion, Philosophy, Literature, Science, and Art 
It will review such of the new publications 
as are of substantial value, and canvass all 
questionable doctrines that maybe published. 

Philosophers have demonstrated the infi- 
nite Wisdom and boundless Benevolence of 
God in contemplating His Physical Universe 
and it is time the same demonstration were 
made in relation to the mental world. In the 
former, the sublimcst order is manifest, 
while in the latter, the debasement and mis- 
eries that afflict mankind, indicate the depest 
confusion and disorder. Hi: is not respons- 
ible for the for the evils of the mental uni- 
verse, for mar. originated them, and by man 
thev can and will be removed. 

The discussion of the laws of our mental 
and physical organizations, and the necesity 
of obedience, to them, as the only mode of 
human regeneration, will constitute a partic- 
ular feature of the Hkijald or Truth. 

It will engage vigorously in all the reforms 
of the day which are founded in Truth, and! 
as it willl"hope all things," and "believe al 
things," for the final triumph of Humanity 
over all evil, the only limit to its 
aspiration will be the entire redemption .of 
the kuman race. 

The Herald of Truth is published month- 
ly, in Cincinnati, containing eighty octavo, 
pages, neatly printed on fine paper. It will 
comprise two volumes annually, of 480 
pages each, and will be ollered on the follow- 
ing liberal terms : 

One yearly subscription, $3,00; two cop- 
iesayear $5,00; five copies per year, $11,00 
ten copies per year, $20,00; twenty copies 
per year, $30,00. The offtr of twenty cop- 
ies for the extraordinary low price of $30,00 
is made to those alone who form a club, and 
order the work to the same Post Office. A 
liberal discount will be made to Agents. 

The Herald ok Truth is placed on a firm 
basis by seveial individuals of great pecuni- 
ary power. It will appear promptly on the 
first of the month. 

Papers copying this Proscctus affew times 
will receive- the work. _ L. A. HINE^ Ed. \ 



$3^"There must be something wrwig."'«&§ 

When we think of the destructiveprogress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
book on the teethjby John Burdell, Dentist, 
published and for sale bjj Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, -which we 
earnestly recommend to all those interrested 
(and who shouldj not be interested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth 
by every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



It should bejreadi 



$&> PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAGT 
for 1848. — FOWLERS & WELLS of 135 
Nassau Street, New York, have published! 
and have for sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1S48. Besides (be 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U.'S., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Martineau, Charles Dickens,|Horace 
Greely, Thoma Wildey, Zachary Taylor, 
Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, Tom Thumb* 
Dr. Sewall and u Stephen<!01in, with a brief 
and interresting sketch of the character of 
each, considered in a phrenological point of 
view. 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books shoald 
be read by every friemfof truth. 



BURDELL ON THE k TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. 5! This pamphlet furnishes, 
some valuable light on the. subject. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 

for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
of Edward.Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by tne New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortmcnt ofAnti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office among which are the b i^ 
lowing. 

Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West InJws, 
Anti-Slaveiy Record 3 vol., 
Slave 's] Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child'sJAppeal, 
Slavery As It Is, 
Life of Granville Sharp, 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Raukins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass* 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Chauning on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slaveiy, 
Moll'sJSketches, 
Slavery As it Is, 



LI BET Y TRACTS— for sale 

at this office, 

Slavery and the Slave trade at 

the Nation's Capital, 
Facts for the People, 
Catcehism on, the Mexican war. 



THE NE 





SEY P 




Truth invites full and free Discussion;- Error shrinks from all investigation. 



Vol 3. 



February 5, 1848. 



No. 5, 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonton, Morris County, Neio Jersey. 



TERMS. 



Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 

5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Anti Slavery Standard. 
Anti-Slavery in Newark. 

Newark, December 17, 1847 



Friend Gay: I am a Jerseyman^anH 
belong to the white-skinned aristocracy of 
this country, where kidnaping, plunder and 
butchery are lawful and respectable, if 
only prosecuted on a large scale. I am not 
one of those unfortunate Jerseymen,who were 

stolen a few weeks ago from Mount Holiy, 
by the legal authorities of our patriotic Sta'e, 
and colonized in the "chivalrous" State of 
Maryland: r.or yet one of those poor souls, 
who weTe stolen last Friday from Hopewell 
Cumberland county,-— probably by the sam • 
pira'ical gentlemen, wh« acquitted themselves 
so beroicly in the affair at Mount H lly. 

This last act of piracy was doubtless 
prompted bv tl*e glory achieved in the first 
■exlifention. How far these piracies are to be 
•extended in il:i« region, we have not yet been 
informed. We aTe onxioiisy waiting to have 
sam" a4ir.ou«cen«ejjt on this subject from the 
authorities. We are interested to know how 
many of us will be taken, from each town- 
ship and county; — who will be taken, and 
tile time our master-- will come for ns. In 
regard to these things, we are kept in the 
moet alarmiug suspense. We should be hap- 
py to learn how the rest of us are to be dis- 
posed of, that we may prepare to "dodge 
the question." The people are begining to 
talk about these matters. 

I have commenced leetnringon the subject 
of American Slavery, in the south end of 
our city. — I have talked to a small audience 
twice, or> the subject. It is difficult to get 
the attention of the people; owing partly to 
their apathy on the question. My notices 
have not yet been very widely circulated. 
Wishing the co-operation of all the friends of 
humanity, in my humble efforts in behalf of 
the slave, I went to several ministers of 
churches here, after my first lecture, to their 
respective congregations, on the coming 
Sabbath, inviting them to attend. Rev. 
Brinsmaid, said he would not read my no ! ice 
to his congregation on the sabbath, and re- 
marked that the. lecturer, was a stranger. 
Rev.McCarroll said that he would not read 
my notice on the Sabbath because, it was a 
secu'ar notice. I observed to him that it 
wa«a religious notice; for we were com- 
maaaded to "remember those in bonds as 
b<vsand with them: " and that if his o* n child- 
ren were in Slavery, he would read the no- 
tice. He inquired if I had ever lived in the 
South. I answered, no. He said I ought to 
live there awhile, before I lectured on Slavery; 
— that he had preached there; — that -the Ab- 
olitionists had circulated infUmnrn'orypamph 
lets among the slaves and mjuredthe cause . 

I assured him that I should 
not present any thing to the public 



that can be controverted. He finally remark- 
ed that the people were quiet here, now, 
and that thejsubject should not be agitated. 
Rev. Eddy said he would not read notice be- 
cause it was a secular one; unless by the di- 
rection of the Session, and referred me to the 
Session: but as I did not know where Mr 
Session lived, I did not call on him. Rev 
Scott said that he would not read my notice, 
unless I would satisfy him beforehand, that 
my plan was such as he could approve of 
himself. 1 told him my plan wa-; to preach 
fltiliveren.ee to the captive and freedom to the 
bound. He hinterl that colonization was the 
best p'an. He could not read my notice. 
Rev Moran said that his ci urcb had nothing 
to do with the matter, tie could not read 
my notice. Rev. Wakely s;iid he would 
think of it, and would see what was the prac- 
tice of his church. I have not heard «f his 
reading it. I wonder what sort religion i- 
talked by the abovenamed clergymen, who 
would not read to their congregatious. a no- 
tice of a lecture, in behalf of a million of our 
sisters, who have been consigned to the great 
brothel-house of American Slavcn ; — ;md in 
behalf of a million of men,who are prohibited 
by law from learning to read the name of 
the God that made them! It seems that 
those ministers claiming to be the represen- 
tatives of Jesus of Nazareth, have resolved 
to pass by those three millions ofourcountry- 
meti, who have fallen among thieves. — 
Does not their positiou strongly remind us, of 
the priest and Levite of old? I have not 
visited the other ministers of our city yet; 
but intend to visit the brethren soon. 

Yours for "God, the Slave and Liberty," 
WILLIAM LAR1S0N. 



Perpetual unpaid toil; no marriage, no 
husband, no wife;_ no parent, no cl.ild; igno- 
ance, licentiousness; whips, chains, scour- 
ges, auction sale! ;md separations; an em- 
bodyment of a ! l the woes that the imagina- 
tion can conceive. 

#g=July 13th, 1847, at 10 o'clock A. 
M., the UNITED STATES GOVERN- 
MENT sold at public Auction, in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, Two VTomen, for $530, & 
put the money int. the United States Treas- 
ury. What have wc of ihe North to do 
with the government/ Let it be remember- 
ed that this money goes to help pay the ex- 
penses of an aggressive war on a sistT re- 
public, for the acquirement of more slave 
Territory. 



Religious Freedom. 



Runaway, my man Fountain — 
has holes in his ears, a scar un the 
righl side of his forehead — ha sheen 
shot in the hind parts of his legs, — 
is marked on jthe back with the 
whip." Georgia Massengc-r," 

"Ranaway, a negro named Kam- 
bleton, limps on his left foot where 
he was shot a few weeks ago, while 
run away."-" Vieksburg Register." 

"Twenty Dollars Reward. Ran- 
away from the subscriber, on ike 
14th instant, a negro girl named 
Molly. She is 16 or 17 years ol 
age, slim made, lulchj branded or> 
the left check, thus R. and a pjet'e 
taken ojf of hcrear on the same side; 
the same letter on the insde of both 



What is religious freedom but the free,un- 
shackled development of mind and truth? — 
It is an old proverb that "truth requires only 
a free stage and no favor," why, then seek 
to smother her with endowments? Freedom 
would secure "a free stage and no favor" 
to every man and every truth. But what is 
incompatable with "endowments." Gama- 
liel spoke the language of freedom when he 
said of Christianity, "Leave it alone: if it be 
of man it will perish of itself." Yes, freedom 
in religion is the most certain and most effi- 
cient test of public principle; and especially 
is this the case among an enlightened people. 
Truth needs no protection. It may be a 
plant of slow growth, but, like the sturdy 
oak, it is all the more enduring for that. If 
we attempt to force it, we impair its vigo and 
strength. It is the steadv, but stately oak of 
the forest, and not the tender plant of the hot 
house, which is able to withstand storms and 
tempests, and give shelter to man and beast. 
So truth, to outlive the jars, shocks, and 
revolutions of states, and guide men ot last 
to the haven of peace and happiness, must 
be the free, spoutanious growth of an unbi- 
assed mind, and not the cradled offspring o^ 
doubt and suspicion. The moment you"en- 
dow" truth — the instant }Ou put it under 
protecti: n — you deprive it of a certain por- 
tion of Us power, for you make it suspected. 
Surely that *>hich is omnipotent needs not 
the p«ny arm of man to sustain.it. Truth 
is, in fact, like the muscles ot the body, 
weakened by swaddling and supporting, and 
strengthened most by free exercise. — [Uni- 
verse.] 



of her legs." Abner Ross, S. C. 



Freedom is the gift of God to ALL. 



THE SEAVE TRADE IN TK E DIS- 

TBICT OF COLUMBIA, 

The History of the civilized world furnish- 
es nothing which can parallel the slave trade 
in the District of Columbia. There, at the 
capital of the most enlightened, civilized 
and christian na:ion on earth, whose only 
right to be a nation at all rests on the theory 
of the "univers.il freedom and equality of all 
men, exists and is seppore.l by law a great 
a great and perpetual Trade, sale of human 
souls. Thither, of all places upon the i arth 
do representatives and ministers of the kings- 
and tyrants of the Old world go, to find the 
spectacle of men, women and children told' 
like swine in the shambles. Nay more:: they 
see the government itself selling its own sub- 
jects at public auction and putting the price 
of christian souls in the National treasury! 
And whilst they have witnessed these infer- 
nal spectacles, they have seen that govern- 
ment, professing as it does to live in thebreth 
of the people, trampling under foot for long 
years, any and every attempt of the people 
to petition or memorialize Congress' against 
crimes which blacken the tery name of re- 
publican government. 

Year after year, have thousands of philan- 
thropic citizens, both in the District and in 
the States, .besought Congress to wipe away 
from our nation's capital a st-iin which dis- 
graced us in the eyes of all the world. The 
power of Congress over the whole subject 
nobody ever doubted. A>id yet, down to the 
present moment, nothing has ever beeradone. 
[Democrat and Freeman. J 



We copy the following act or 
of a meeting held at Mount Holly 
in reference to the recent outrages 
committed in that vicinity, from 
the Penn. Freeman. We are re- 
joiced to see the people moving in 
that matter. We are under th 
necessityof abridging- a little. P 
' l^iVuim • n '*n t»lt ntdw wmofiwid uuii nIT 
MOUNT HOLLY MEETING. 

The meeting was organized by "appoint;.-!-; 
Thomas Harrisson, Pres.; David Walton, 
Wm. Clothier, Elisha Hu>"t, Mir'/.v.ir 
Doebins, Vice Presidents, Wm. A. Ciitiua- 
cs.and Wm. Parry Secretaries. 

The following was adopted. 

WQiereai, Slavery as it exists'in several of 
the States of this Union is purely local in its 
charade, and derives its sole authority frrm 
he municipal laws of those States in v.lich 
it is maintained; and wereas, there is nothing 
; n the Constitution of the United- States ana 
ofthis S'ate to authorize its existence if 
New Jersey: 

Therefore Resolved Thst?whi!e New Jer- 
sey is not permited to interfere w ith the ques- 
tion of slavery mjofhW States for the abolit- 
on thereof; neither should she interfere for 
its continuence by lending -her magistracy, 
her police and her prisons to the claimants c! 
men as fugitives and " ehaltUs per.-onal." 

Resolved, That the Senate and General 
Assembly be earnestly rcquestedto cruet a, 
statue similar to tl o-ecxisti gin Penn. Ma$s^ 
&c. for the protection of free negroes frim 
being .kidnapped; prohibiting Jr.di es a' d Ju f- 
ices of .he psace from faking cognizance of 
he case of u^y fugitive under act 1 'of '.G«&e- Mrf^i 
.;ress of Feb. 12th, 1792— or under any act; 
of the United States; prohibiting all officers 
nd citizens of the State, fom Hiding in the 
arrest' of any fugitives, and fortiding the use. 
■ i'(u r j :iis for their detention; also, that said 
Senate and General Assembly be respectful- 
ly requested to repeal all existing ISws in- 
consistent with the above propositions. 

Resolved, That copies of these resolutions, 
•ccrediled by the officers of this Convention, 
be laid before the Si nate and General Assem- 
bly- of the Stele of New Jersey. 
On motion of W. J. Allison, 
Resolved, That this Convention ^"urgently 
recommend to to their fellow citizens ofothr 
counties, to unite with 'hem in their efforts 
to repeal those laws, which require us to aid 
in the arrest and/ detection of..fugiltre»froru 
Slavery. 

A draft of a memorial having hern p al 
and. 'approved, it was resolved to appoint if. . 
committee to have 500 copies thereof printed 
and to take measures for its circulation 
hrou: h the State. 

Committee — Jos. Parrish, - Samuel Bui- 
lock, Wm. Parry, Wm. N. Seniles, Thomas 
Hani^ n, Robert F. Roberts, Silas Walton, 
Job llaines,Micajah Dobbins,Isac S. Haine* 
Charles Strokes, (Mjpreston,; and Richard 
M. Hugg. 
On Motion,.. 

Revoked, That Thomas Harrison, .1o«. 
Parrish, Chalkley Gillingham, John W. 
Haines, Job Haines, Wm. Parry and Silas 
Walton, be- a committee of correspondence. 

Resolved, That the proceedings of this 
meeting, with a copy of tbte act of Pennsyl- 
vania to prevent kidnaping &c, be published 
ihe Papers of this State as far as practicable. 

On motion adjourned. 
Wm. A. Garrigves, William Parrv. 

Secretaries. 



n'r) 



Lying — Never chase a lie. Let it 
alone, & it will run it self to death 
I;ca4 workout a good character 
nuouh faster than any one can lie 
raeoutofit. Br, B etcher. 



THE F 

,- BOONTOK, FEJK.5, 



JS4S. 



.1 will right, to dc righV^f its own sal e, 
■nvok-uco, is Religion, is Christianity. 



03- As we fail spm'.imcs to get P :, P (, r l ** 
in tin" regular time it may Be neccs,""! pc - 
hups lo stale that it takos twelve number" 
to make a year- We trust howevc.- tliat 
w*i phAtt 'm»n have Business so arrange! 
; s c b m e r gular. 



^3r>ft wJU bj perc?ivL il in flft proceedings of 
the an uidl met i gj t at a new committee 
was appointed io raise, funds for carrying 
through the Slave suit whieh iseqe ted to 
( ome n for ! nal act on in the court of Er- 
rors in this State perhaps this w ek 

The time has come when the mon?y must 
be raised. 'J he calls for means to do this 
busi-itss with, ha -e leen very poorly respon- 
ded a« yet, but the time has come and it 
must be </.//(,. Let not the effort to do this 
be con fined to this committee, but let every 
minted it his duty to act and raise some- 
thing, even small sums ami send it on with- 
out delay to R. Rush 3 1 ui 1 / of Trenton. It 
will Jill be satisfactorily aepoun ed for when 
jh- business is finished. Again we ;ay let 
tomethiog be done a»d ('one no ft 

#$»We are informed that pctitio is are bf- 
fore the Legislature for the repeal of late li- 
aeam law. Temperance me.i, wake up! it 
you are. not already a rake, and s* r.d in re- 
monstrances as-tinst toe repeal without delay 
The session will probably he short, and what 
is done, must be done quickly, without any 
ilelav. Mark ev. ry Legislator that votes fo 
repeal, until w» have a better law. 

#3»It is estimated hat the producing cla s 
the working men of th- coun'ry, own only 
two eUve lbs of the w alrh of the country; 
the nou-produceis n m elevenths, -s thi> 
right? Cannot trie pnuttiwra be the owners, 
Uiagreaer extent than this ' Look to it. 
working men; 

ANTED ~ A Roy from 13 to 15 
years of age; on* that p ss -s-es a character for 
industry, integri y, a! d found moral p ii c - 
pie; one that will be willing for a time to do 
a little work of vaiio.is Vuuli, and be useful 
to others in a varie'y of ways, and beneficia 
to himself, with leisure and opportunity for 
juttdlectua imprwvcmci.t that Dr. F aV.;l n 
never hat), c. n apply at this Office, when 
further particular; will be ma le known. 
A part of his employment will be setting 



typ< 



Terms ljher. !. 



£9 The XON SLAVEHOLDER.— This 
paper lias just eomm -need its third volume. 
It i.s pnhlished in pamphlet form, for one dol- 
lar a year, monthly, by George W. Taylor, 
corner Fifth and Cherry Streets, Phiadelphia 
It is a valuable paper, devoted to freedom, 
i.nd opposed to the vse of slave grown pro- 
duce, ,»„ J Is very worthy of pi t onage. 

C^The DELAWARE ABOLITIONIST 
In our notice of this paper; we omitted to 
state where it was published. It is published 
at Wilmington, Delawa e, semi-monthly at 
25 cents a yeir by James B. Brooke. 



More Annexation.- The editor 
of the Maine Farmer intimates thai 
the design of our Government in 
sending an expedition to the Deac 
Sea. may be to fish up Sodom and 
Gomorrah, and 'annex' them to the 
United States. 

Goats & MoNKErs.-Gough re 
cently defined moustaches to be 
•'the upper lip in mourning for th 
brains." Some wear moustaches 
to show that they are not boys; but 
by this they don't gain much, for 
they prove themselves monkeys. 



STATE MEETING, 

The Annual New Jersey Liberty' Convex 
for 1S4S, was held in Washington Hall, Jer- 
sey City on the 2G Jan. 

At 110'clock A, M., the President*. Sec- 
retary being afafsnf, John Lee of Bloomfield 
wa; appointed C bairm ui, &. Stephen Quaife 
of Jersey City, Secrcrary. 

It was then 

Jfawked, That John Lee, Luther Lee, 
Al\?u Stewjir!, Stephen Quaife and John 
Grimes ^ a C( <*niUee to prepare business 
for the ConvtriJ-O '- 

The Meetino th?n adjourned to &alf pact 
2 o'clock P. M. 

At Half past 2 o'clock P. M., the business 
committee reported the following Resolutions 
which were accepted 

1 Resolved. That we hail with joy and 
gladness the manifest increasing "interest of 
the people of the Uuitecl States, in the con- 
sideration of the question of Slavery, and 
that this consideration is to redound to. the 
sure advancement of Liberty. 

Resolved, 2 That we respond to the nom- 
ination made at Buffalo of John P. Hale as 
a Candidate for the presidency of the United 
Stales and Liecester King tor the vice Pres- 
idency of the same; and that the said nomina- 
tion meets with our entire approbation, and 
secures our most hearty concurrene in the 
same. 

Resolved, 3d. That the recent outrages 
committed by citizens of th£ Slaveholding 
States, in Western New Jersey, in coopera- 
tion with a magistrate, Sheriff, Jury ttad a 
a corrupt public sentiment by kidnapping and 
carryinii into interminable bondage, the 
peaceable, unoffending cittizens of our own 
State, call for immediate and determined ac- 
tion on the part of the Liberty loving por- 
of this Stale. 

Reiolved, 4th. That we will petition the 
Legislature of this State to pass a lawfor- 
biding the use of the prisons of this State 
for tlie slaveholders to imprison fugitive 
slaves therein, aud to restrain all officers of 
this State, Judicial and Executive, and all 
private citizens from exercising or employ- 
ing any power they may possess in aiding, 
in the recapture of fugitive slaves in any 
manner whatsoever. 

Resolved, 5th That Enoch Middleton 
Samuel Alinsoa, B. Rush Plumly of- Mercer, 
and, Henry W. Ridgway of Burlington, be 
a committee to takes chargeof these petitions 
in conjnetion with a committee recently ap- 
pointed for a similer purpose at Mount Hol- 
ly to present these petitions to the Legisla- 
ture attend to all neeesary business in con- 
nection with this mailer. 

Resolved 6th Whereas the suit now pend- 
ing in the court of Errors in this State, mvolv- 
ng the validity of slavery under the new 
onstitution, is about to be brought to anissue 
is indispensible that funds bo immediately 
rised to pay the expense accruing in these 
suits and that a committee be appointed, to 
forthwith make an eft'ert to raise the necces- 
nry funds for this purpose. 

Resolved 7th. That the thanks of tlie peo- 
ple of New Jersey are due to Alvnn Stewart 
£atp for the faithfulness and ability with 
whieh he defended the Slave in the Supreme 
Court of this State, and that an elibrt be 
made to refund him the money still due him 
on account of expenditures he matfi |.'rom his 
own pocket; behaving given his own services 
without compensation, and ageed to give 
:ie irly half the amount due him, the balance 
hould be paid him without delay. 

lletolvcd, 8th That it is the duty cf th 
Friends of Liberty Party in this State to pay 
it least a part of the expences of their only 
Representative at the Buffalo Convention. 

Resohed'Jih That the thanks of the meet- 
ng are due to the few faithful friends in Jer- 
sey city who have procured us a pleasant 
plat e for our meeting and protiding entertain- 
ment for those in attendance. 



intCrreating points raj reference to tlie respon- 
sibility of JerseymfU Iff this matter of slavery 
after which the Kesolutions were add&pted. 

f he following persons were appointed a 
committee to carry out the duties specified 
in the 6th Resolution that of raising funds. 

T. V. Johnson, of Newark, A. H. Freeman 
of Orange, Wright Flavell of Patterson, £r. 
C. Allen of Deckertown, Alexander Black 
of Swedesborough, Peter Ellis of Crosswicks 
Dr. Charles F. Clark of Woodbury, Wm J. 
Alinson of Burlington, Jonathan Parkhurstof 
Springfield, C. Peloubet of Bloomfield, John 
J. Norris ofBoonton, Frazee Marsh of Plain- 
field, Abijah Wilson of AHamueny, John 
Turnbull of Jersey City and Robert Scwati 
of Madison. 

The following person were then elected of- 
ficers for the ensuing year. 

President. 
Jonathan Parkhurst. 
Secret ury, 

John Lee. 
Treasurer, 

James How r e. 
Executive Committee. 
John Grimes. 
Stephen Grimes 
Daniel C. Norris 
Isaac Evarli, 
G. W. Esten, 
T. V. Johnson, 
Alexander Black. 
Enoch Middleton, 
Josiah P. Huntoon. 



anil 



11 No man lighthh a candle 
putteth it under a bushel." 

l: Hav c no fellowship with tlie tin-' 
fruitful works of darkness." 



From thcVLiberty Standard. 

The last General Conference of 
the Freewill Baptist adopted the* 
the following: — 

Secret Societies. 

The special Committee to whom was sub- 
mitted some resolutions on secret societies, 
made the following report, which was adopt- 
ed: . 

"Whereas this Conference are fully con- 
vinced that the Bible contains a revelalion of 
all the principles obligatory upon us in all our 
various relations to God and man — TdiMtheso 
principles were designed to be exhibited t'> 
public view, and urged htfrrJe up&i the con- 
sciences of men in all the relations of life;, 
and w hereas all secret societies, whatever iw- 
cidental org personal advantages they may 
st e n to aflord, are unnecssary for the accom- 
plishment of any good end, therefore, 

1. Resolved, That the jealousies which 
such organizations arc calculated to excite, 
and the ease with which designing men may- 
use them for evil purposes, render it incon- 
sistent for disciples of Christ, and especially 
for Free-will Baptists, to form or sustain 



a 

It was then Resolved the proceedings of \ connection with such associations. 



the meetings be published in the New Jersey 
Freeman, True True Wesleyan and the Na- 
tional Era. 

And the meeting adjourned. 



(J^PoS.ITIOSi AND DUTIES OF THE NoKTH 
WITH HEGARD TO SLAVERY. 

This is the the title of a well written tract 
of 24 pages, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
published by Charles Whipple of Newbury- 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some small points but as a whole il 
contains much valuable matter & we wish 
every man in the free Stales might read it. 
We are certain that no truly honest North- 
ern man could read it and feel that he had 
nothing to do with slavery. 

The facts set forth in this tract proves con- 
clusively that Slavery has had, and still docs 
have much to do with us. But let it be read 
it will speak for itself. It is for Sale by Wm 
Harued 22 Spruce Street N. Y. 



03>YOUNG AMERICA. — This is the 
Organ of the National Reformers, pudlished 
by George Evans, New York, 

It is opposed to land monopoly, advocates 
freedom of the public lands and ether things 
in which the poor man should ftel a clee] i i- 
terest. It gives useful information oji tliese 
and other subjects, which is not to be found 
in most other papers. 

It is published every Saturday at $1,50 a 
year for single copy, two or more copies for 
$1 each, and for a large number a still great- 
er discount. 



2. Resolved That all laudable effort* be 
put forth to prevent the members of our 
churches, who are now free from such soci- 
eties, from becoming connected with thera„ 
and if possible, to reclaim all who do now 
sustain such a relation. 

E. PLACE, Qiiainnai^ 

The following Kesolutions were 
adopted by the Free Synod of Cin- 
cinnati Nov. 4th 1847. 

Resolved, 1st, That we as a Synod bear 
our testimony against secret affiliated socia- 
ties, purporting lo exist for the purpose of 
benevolence, as unnecssary, unsafe in then - 
selves, inimical to the bestSiittereste ofjthe 
communities where they exist, and conse- 
quently sinful. 

2. That we give our f zcnJous and unani- 
mous adherence to Temp< ranee Societies 
formed on the principle of total abstinence 
from all intoxicating liquors; but we earnest- 
ly depreciate the formation of secret'afftliated 
associations, though ostensibly and really 
formed to promote that good cause, helfcvmg 
that such organizations will result in injury, 
insirad of bcnefit,^to the Temperance refor- 
mation. 



The first and second Resolution i were a- 
dopted after an interesting dificussion from 
A! von Stewart, Lewis T-pan, James How." 
aud others. 

The meeting then adjourned until even- 
ing. 

At half past 6 o'cloch the Convention was 
opened with prayer by Mr. Wheeler of Jer- 
sey City. 

The Discussions was then resumed on the 
remaining Resolutions, in which Luther Lee, 

(Lewis Tappan, Mr. McDonald, How and 
others participated bringing ont some very 



Who are the Happiest Men. — They 
who live to benefit others — who are always 
ready with a word to encourage — a smile to 
cheer-a look to persuade, and a dollar toas- 
to assist. They are never fearful lest a good 
trade or an excellent bargain should fall in- 
to the hands of a poor neighbor, but the 
more rejoiced, when such an one meets with 
encouragement. 



For the Freeman. 

A^ ACROSTIC. 

This nauseous weed by many used, 
Or rather we would say abused, 
By smoking, chewing, an excess, 
Alike producing filthiness; 
Chewing brings forth streams of juice; 
Custom pleads a false excuse, 
Or it would soon be out of use. 



For thc§Freeman. 

Dr Grimes, 

1 attended the debates between 
Mr. Clark and yourself on the 23,J and 31, 
Dec. last on the merits of the Rechabiie so- 
cieties, and having read an article in the N. 
Y. Washingtonian containing a number of 
false statements, I take the liberty to notice 
a few of thorn. The statement, "thatyou did 
not notice the principle first laid down by Mr. 
Clark, is totally, Jals\hl your argument from 
the begining to the end w as directly to that 
point, conclusive and satisfactory to every 
unprejudiced mind„that the Rechabite Soci- 
eties are not calculated, in a physical and 
moral point of view, lo elevate a few or ma- 
jority of mankind. 

Respecting the history of secret associa- 
tions, alluded to, you did give such a history, 
and proved to a demonstration, that a new 
garb and change of name did not alter the 
nature or character of the old serpent. 

Respecting yonr complaints of "personal 
disrespect," you did ullude to the unjust treat- 
ment you received from many ofthe Hechab- 
ites the week following the first debate, ami 
l£>h' am a w itness that you had the strongest 
possible grounds to complain not only of the 
treatment referred to through the week, but 
on both evenings of the discussion, which to 
rne is sufficient proof of the power of Rech- 
ism to elevate downward with a vongence. 
As to the standing vote it is false, as well as 
many other things w hich I may notice at 
some future time. 

JrsTici. 



For the New Jersey Freeraan. 
Mr. Editor, 

In looking over the N. Y. 
Washington ian of Jan. 15, I was not a little 
feurprised to find the^ fallowing account of the 
discussions between yourself and Mr. Clark, 
which I consider so remarkable a departure 
from truth, that I wish you to publish it to- 
gether with some comments which I have to 
make on the same. 

From the N. Y. Washingtooian. 

Discussion at Boonton, IX. J. 

The proposed discussion between Doctor 
Grimes of Boonton and Br. Clarke, D. C. R., 
>sn the question, "Are the Rechabite Socie- 
ties worthyjof the countenance and support 
tif Philanthropists andJRepublicans r" was 
commenced on the evening of the 23d ult. be- 
fore a crowded, audience. The mode of dis- 
cussion adopted, was (hateach speaker should 
occupy half an hour Brother Clark took the 
lead. His time being up, Mr. Grimes pro- 
ceeded to arraign our Older for false'prelence 
in H-timing descent from the time of the pro- 
phet Jeremiah. From this he diverged into 
au attack on the Order, on the idea that Re- 
chabite benevolence never extended beyond 
the pale of their own membership; arid then 
to those only who could produce their proof 
with au accidentAvith his team,Vor ;.\vho had 
of brotherhood: so 'that a man who had met 
fallen into a river, would firstjbc asked for his 
password. These objections— puerile as they 
are, were enforced with considerable ingenu- 
ity; but all this was easily" unravelled when 
brought under the notice of ourable brother 
Ckurk. 

On Friday 31 ult. the discussion was re- 
sumed. Brother Clark commenced the de- 
bate by laying down the principle that "any 
association that has for its object the physical 
and moral elevation of a few, or a majority of 
ankind, deserves the countenance and sup- 
ort of the philanthropist and republican, "- 
Dr, Grimes, instead of noticing the : position 
hus assumed, proceeded to"give a history of 
ixret assoc ia! ions from two hundred years 
efore the christian era down to the present 
ime, which, with sundry complaints of our 
(constitution, and of personal disrespect, seems 
|ohave suramcd up tie; discussion. 
I On a vote, of the audience being taken, an 
Iverwhelming cry of "aye," told that the 
leoplc of Boonton approved of the principles 
md aim of Rechabism. A friend having call- 
Id for a standing vote, it was yet more cvi- 
nt on which side ihe victory was to be 
laimed. The general effect of the discussion 
as been to produce a spirit of inquiry as to 
ur designs and aims, while it has tended to 
egct a more favorable opinion than previous- 
y towards our noble confederation. 

We are indebted to several brethren for 
ttformalion on this subject, and more espe- 
cially to Brother William Coates, who had 
rnished us with an able and highlyjinterest- 
g letter, which, owing to other matters of 
re general interest, wc have been compell- 
greatly to compress. We believe that the 
tement given above will bo found to em- 
y all essential particulars. May ourbre- 
ren be animated in the future yet more con- 
|antly to prove that our confederation is 
wed upon principles of benevolence and 
■Hue , and by this we doubt not they will do 
Such of the 

"Good of the Order." 



Now Mr. Editor, It is well known by 
;ose who attended the debate, that Mr. Clark 
ver attempted to "unravel, " or even notice 
argument that the Rechabite Society, as 
ich, could np^ extend its aid beyond its own 
iniits, even in cases of severest distress, 
they not only refuse to aid unfortunate por- 
8ns from the funds of the Order who are 
uilty of not understanding its mysteries, but 
Ity refuse to reveal those mysteries to any 
ftcept those whoWe "free from all bodily 



$3,00 
4,00 
5,00 
6,00 
8,00 

10,00 



Art. 4. Qualifications for Membership. — 
Persons of good moral chaarcter, free from 
all bodily disease or infirmity that would ren- 
der them burdensome to the Tent, not under 
the age of eighteen, and who have signed the 
total abstinence pledge from all intoxicating 
liquors; shall be eligible for membership. 

This narrow principle of the Order, was 
shown also from the list of initiation feesfix- 
cd upon a sliding scale, but unfortunately for 
its claim to benevolence, it slides upward in 
proportion to the want of ability to pay and 
the nearness to which men have approached 
that period in life when they will become a 
burden to the Order; that as men approached 
the infirmities of age, they were shut out by 
an exorbitant initiation fee. See Article 6, 
Sec. 1, 2, and 3, of the same general laws. 

Art. 6. Initiation Fee. Sec. 1. The in- 
itiation fee shall be graduated according to 
the ages of the applicants, and at not less than 
the following rates, except as hereinafter pro- 
vided, viz: 

All pers. over IS years & under 25, 
" u u 25 " " " 30 
" " " 30 " " " 35] 
« » " 35 " " " 40, 
u it 11 40 m " i' 45" 

ti " « 45 " " " 50, 
And over 50, $1 shall beadded for each year 

Sec 2 Any Tent may increase such rates 
therein, or any District Tent may do so in 
any Tent or Tents within its jurisdiction, 
whenever they or either of them shall deem 
such increase for the Good of the Order. 

Sec. 3. Any District Tent may, upon the 
organization of any new Tent, fix the initia- 
tion fee at half the above rales for six months 
or longer, if it shall deem the same for the 
GOOD OF THE ORDER. 

This was all clearly shown in the argument 
and the above articles were read to the au- 
dience to sustain these positions. 

The writer of the article in the"Washing- 
ingtonian," says an "overwhelming" voteol 
the audience, told that the people of Boonton 
approved the principles of Rechabism. How 
can this be true when the vote was t >ken 
at the late hour of 11 o'clock, after the mee- 
ting had continued 4 hours, when the people 
of Boonton, members of the. Order excepted, 
had very many of them retired to their«homes 
while a number of Rechabites had just come 
in, in time to vote who did not hear the dis- 
cussion. 

Besides, there was no such "overwhelm- 
ing vole as-the writer speaks of, there was 
clear room for difference of opinion as: to the 
vo'e and it is claimed bv some, to have gom- 
the other way 

It is very certain in the opinion of many 
that if the vote had heen taken half an hour 
sooner, it would have shown a considerable 
majority against the Rechabites. This is the 
generally expressed opinion of those who 
are not pledged members of the Order. 

Again, the writer says that a standing vote 
made "it yet more evident on Which side the 
victoiy was claimed" Here I think there 
was a slip of the writer's pen, whether from 
design or otherwise, let those present when 
the vote Mas taken judge for themselves. 
How could this be true when there positively 
was no standing vote taken. 

I agree with the writer, that the effect <f 
the discussion has been to produce a spirit 
of inquiry on the subject; but that its tenden- 
cy has been to strengthen the conviction, thai 
such societies are noi useful, but hurtful. Be- 
ing hid away from public inspection they are 
easily corrupted, (for public inspection is the 
greatest external hindrance to corruption, 
that can be thought of,) and being corrupted 
they become engines of evil and oppression: 
destroying the morals of its own members, 
by encouraging a narrow self interest to the 
harm of the society in general, as -was plain- 
ly shown in the argument. 

As another evidence of the conviction fas- 
tened on the minds of the Rechabites them- 
selves, I will mention the fact that previous 
to the first discussion, they circulated band 
bills far and near to notify people of the dis- 



not one to beseem and it Drag said by some 
of them, that "such discus^ dld »<>|ood» 
a good proof that they did no, good to Rech> 
abism. It has also been admitted by some 
of them that if the discussioahad taken, place 
before the Society M as organized, it Mover 
would have had an existence; and that their 
number "had increased too fast for their own 
good, for two thirds of them did not under- 
stand the principles cf tlr.e Order." 

The willingness shown in the above letter to 
overstep the bounds of truth, taken with the 
admissions, seem to show, that the Recha- 
bites themselves feel their ground untenable 
and ought as honest men to admit that they 
have been in too much haste in this matter, & 
retrace their steps, knowing that it is an hon- 
or always to us, to admit a mistake, when 
we have been misled. 

Veracity, 



For the N. J. Freeman. 



Mr. Editor, 

A correspondent of the N. Y. Washingto- 
nian in giving and account of the discussion 
between yourself and Mr. Clark, says " the 
general effect of the discussion has been to 
produce a spirit of inquiry as to our design? 
and aims." 

So much of the article is strictly true, and 
■tow to show the effects of this ''spirit of in 
puiry," I will give no other testimony than 
:hat of the " noble confederation" itself. 

Be it remembered that up to the time ol 
the first evening's discussion, the Rechabites 
proclaimed far and near that they had a hun- 
Jred members, and in less than two weeks, 
we find in the Washingtonian a letter from a 
member of the "noble confederation," that 
their nnmber is reduced to seventy. I will 
give his own words verbatim. "We were 
organized on the 11th ofSept!a;t with twen- 
ty membe/s, and we now number Seventy 
good upon the books! Does this loo'.c much 
like .retrograding? 

Yours in T. F. & J. 
Wm. Mc D. Robison R. S." 

Besides all this I hear weekly of withdraw- 
als. I conclude with asking the same ques 
tion, ''does this look much like retrograding? ' 

Yours in T.' F. & J. 
For the "Good of the Orcer" 
Grand Chaplain, O. G. P .R .T .L. 



We give place to the communi- 
cations of our correspondents re- 
specting the debate on Recinhism. 
and, lest some 01 lite blunder- 
ing composition of the article from 
the YVashingtonian should be at- 
tributed to ns. we state that we 
have co) ie ! it Pbrbal'un ad literatim 
from that p per. In Order to sh -w 
more cimelusiyly how the Order 
shuts out fain its bench' s tl.osewho 
are likely to need kindness and at 
tqiition mnsf more full y illustrate 
the limited ; ha actcr of the chums 
of the order, as a public beneficial 
institution, we giveScc. 16 of their 
laws for the government of Distii;t 
Tents. 

"Sec. 16. Honorary Members. Districts 
may have power to make Laws by which 
Tents under their jurisdiction may admit ol 
pesons over fifty years of age as honor irv 
members, who shall not be entitled to the P. 
YV, or benefits of the Order." 





Domestic Peace and Joy, Health, Wealth 
and long Life. 



THE TEMPEEANCE CAUSE. 

This great cause is destined soor.cr < r later 
to a sure triumph. God never created man 
with a necessity for even the me d m ate use of 
a drink, with so easy and natural a transition 
to excess. No wholesome or necessary ar- 
ticle of food or drink, so khyJlcs up an appe- 
tite for a continual increase of quantity, as 
ihe intoxicating article. This is reason suffi- 
cient in itself, why we should not drink of 
ihe intoxicating cup. It' no vie; no crime; 
110 moral degradation; no discord, strife or 
contention; no poverty; no misery; no disens--; 
no death, ilowed from the use of Alcoholic 
drinks, it is enough that their use is a trans- 
gression of a law of our nature 

But all these must and will flow from such 
transgressions, as their legitimate fruits. 

We said the cause of T< mperae.ee would 
triumph. We believe that its progress is 
onward, and will be onward. Notwithstand- 
ing the ciy is now and then raised that it is 
going back, we believe this is a delusion; we 
believe that its progress is onward, has been 
onward and trill be onward. Its progress is 
onward by virtue of its own intrinsic value 
and truthfulness. We believe it is right and 
duty to labor for its advancement, it will help 
on the reformation. But we do not believe 
that the final triumph of the cause hangs ex- 
clusively upon the efforts of man. 

Temperance is its own preacher. It stands 
erect, noble, pure and lovely, by its own in- 
estimable worth, silently but incessantly 
commending itselt to the hearts of men. It 
has proved and will continue to prove a faith- 
ful and effectual preacher. But this is not 
.he only preacher. While Temperance is 
holding up to the astonished gaze of men, her 
trophies in the shape of redeemed men wo- 
men and children; Intemperance is l>my 
rec'ing her own monument of infamy in full 
view. 

While Temperance is laboring to repair the 
waste places in this beautiful world, and 
inake earth a paradise; Intemperance is labor- 
ing to destroy, to lay desolate, and make this 
world a place of wretchedness. 

While the one is striving to redeem and 
save men, the other is sending some out to 
die in the snow, drowning others, tormenting 
some with delirium tremens, scattering dis- 
cord, disease, death and all the ills that man 
can suffer. 

They are both powerful pi etchers, both 
advacinng the same cause, though in differ- 
• n t ways. The one draws men to himself 
by the power of truth; while the other fright- 
ens men off' by the unconcealable ugliness of 
;rror. llow long can this contest continue.' 

ft*' Father M«thew is expected to start 
"or America in April next. 



T is the rank Tobacco plant. 
Raised by slave labor too: 



(>($>'Vhe L: gis atun of New York has vo- 
ted against the extension of slavery. In 
the Seuate '26 to 1, in the House 107 to 5. 



believe, neighbor T.," says old 
Cluzzlefunction, who had just drank nine 
Tiugs of cider, "that I'll take another mug of 
your cidor. I love good eider rss well as well 



INTEMPERANCE. 



The Tiller of the soil. 

KV DAVID Li KOATII. 

A hardy, sunburnt man is he, 

Ajhardy, sunburnt man; 
No sturdier man you'll ever see, 

Though all the world you scan. 
In summer's heat, in winter's cold, 

You'll|find,him at his toil — 
Oil, far above the knights of old, 

Is the Tiller of the Soil. 

No weighty bars secure his door, 

No ditch is dug around; 
fits walla no cannon bristle o'<r, 

No deadllie on his ground. 
A peaceful laborer his he, 

Unknown in Earth's turmoil — 
From many crushing sorrows free, 

Is the Tiller of the Soil. 

His stacks are seen on every side, 

Hid barns are filled with grain; 
Though others hail not fortune'* tide, 

He labors not in vain, 
The land gives up its rich increase, 

The sweet reward of toil; 
And blest with happiness and peace, 

Is the Tiller of the Soil. 

He trudges out at break of day, 

And takes his way along; 
An as he turns the yielding clay, 

He sings a joyful song. 
He is no dull, unhappy wight, 

Bound in misfortue's CiVi!; 
The smile is bright, the heart is light, 

Of the Tiller of the Soil. 

And when the orb of day hath erown'd 

With gold the western sky, 
Before his dwelling he is found, 

Y\ t!i chef rful faces bv — 
With little laughing duplicates, 

Carresses will n"t spoil; 
Oh, joy at every side awaits 

The Tiller of the Soil. 

A hardy, sunburnt man is he, 

A hardy, sunburnt man; 
But who can boast a hand so free, 

As he, the ti!ler,can? 
Nor summer's heat, nor winter's cold, 

The power has him to foil — 
Oh, far above the knights of old, 

Is the Tiller of the Soil. 



Ignorance,'vice, crime; domestic strife and 
discord; wretchedness and utter mm; murder, 
edath, and_woes unutterable. 



An address just published by the Morris 
County Temperauce Society gives an authen- 
tic statement of the cost which intoxicating 
liquors make for the county each year. 
Crime caused by intemperance $2042,30 
Pauperism caused by intemperance 4143,17 

Whole cost of crime andpnu 
e year 

Deduct, paid into the Countv 



•erism in the county for one year 



| $6185,4 



WAR. 



"Town deserted ; burning village; 
Murder; rape; destruction; pilla :e; 
Man compelled man's blood to shed ; 
Weeping ; Wain rig ; want of bread ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed with sword instead of pens ; 
Harvests trampled; homesteds burned : 
This is war why is't not spurned. 



"RbVBMXG, IN THK HaLLS OF Mon TKZUMA. 

A private, acting as _clerk for] Gen. Pierc 
writes: 

' Our men are assasinatedjhere in the cit 
nightly by] the Mexican renegadoes; wh 
make a practice of killing all they como a 
cross who do not happen to have arms aboi 
them. They do not always come out righi 
for last night one of our men was stabbed r. 
the theatre, and the 2d dragoons turned on 
and killed about 30 Mexicans before the 
could be stopped. This is the state of thing 
in the, city at the present time. 

To Iet'you know how battle and sicknes 
have thined the army now in Mexico city, 
will state one instance of my own company 
which consisted of 95 good men when w 
started from Toledo, but is now reduced t' 
about 19 men for duty, the remainder bein 
.either in the hospital or dead," Sig. Liberty 



Treasury for Tavern Licences in 
the same time, 



$360,00 



Balance against the rum sellers $5825,4? 
which is taken from the people in the form 
ofa Tax. We go for a law making the rum. 
sellers pay this tax besides their equal share 
of the other taxes. 

Let us put down the rumselling business 
and we shall save $5 825,47 each year in 
Morris County. 



THE NATIONAL ERA: 
WASHINGTON CITY, D1ST. OF 

COLUMBIA. 

3. BAILEY, EDITOR; J. G. WHITTIER, CORRES- 
PONDING EDITOR. 
L. P. NOBLE PUBLISHER. 

The Leading purpose of this Journal is, the 
discussion of the qmsiton of Slavery, and 
the advocacy of ihe main principles of the 
Lib: ity Party. Due attention is given to So- 
cial and Political Questions of general impor- 
lance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 
o b ■ overlooked. 

li aims to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in ventions or discoveries 
affecting the progress of Society; ol public 
documents of permanent value; and, during 



The BOONTON W. T. B. Society will 
meet every Monday evening at the Free 
Church. JamesS.Nor ris Pre «(tenf,^Malcolg» 
L. Grimes Secretary'. 

Boonton Nov. 24, 1847. 



{JCf^'There must be something wrong. 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist, 

_ published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
the sessions of Congress, to present such re- , T _ XT , r , , . , 

, c-, >• -ii 131 Nassau Street New York, which we 

ports of its proceaings as will convey a cor- ' 



Five hnndred and eighty nine millions 
have died according to the best data, since 
he birth of ehrist by intoxicating diinks. 



WHO'S GUILTY. 

Henry F. Fredericks, living about four 

nilesfrom this village, (Boonton,) on Friday 
vening Dec. 24, after drinking freely at tin 
ouse ofa rumseller, undertook to go home, 
ut was not able to reach his house and lay 
h the snow on the top of a cold ble ik hil 
ntil ten o,c!ock on Saturday when he wa. 
mnd unabie; to speak. He lingered unti. 
Sunday evening when he died. 

He did not die a natural death, consequent 
y he must have been killed somehow. 

Who killed him? We will answer'tha 
mestion by asking another. Who ki lie ' (fa 
nan that was shot the bullet, or the mai 
hat pulled the trigger? 

^ANOTHER.— A man named Wilders 
Thomas diedjof delirium tremens on the 14 
an. la-t, about 3 miles from this Village. 
He had Ioi:g been a hard drinker; was a good 
'r arted and useful man when sober, but couh 
"t resist the the temptations of the rumsclle 
He of en made the effort to stop, but was 
s often caught in the rum seller'sjsnare. 
A'ho's guilty? 

INSTILL ANOTHER.— A youug man 
lamed Taylor, left rum a hole in Boonton 
>n S-iturday evening Jan. 22, in a state o 
itoxication on his way home. In crossin: 
: ie pond at Powervillc, about one and a hall 
dies from this Village, he fell over the brii'g 
nd was drowned. His Cap was leftjon ti i 

i'lge which led to his discovery. It is su| 
• ised tKat he supported himseTTby han^,ii. 
n the railing of the bridge, and fell over. 
His body was recovered on Tuesday morn 
ig following. A bottle of rum was foun 
i his pocket. He was^ between 20 and 2 
ears age. He had|all the natural requsite 
>r aclive'usefulness, but the temptations < 
'.he rum seller and evil examples have prove' 
jo much for him to resist. Who's guilty? 



r< ct idea not only of its actton, but of its 
spirit and policy. The debatas on the ex- 
citing subjeeU of Slavery and the Mexican 
War, expected to arise in the next Congress 
will occupy a large share of its coluoins. 

Arraegements have been made for extend- 
ing and'enriching its already valuble Depart- 
ment of Home and Foreign Correspondence. 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of the 
finest qualty, in the best style, at $2 a year 
payable in advance. 

The genorous spirit in which the Era has 
been welcomed by the Publtc Press, and 
the very liberal patronage it has received 
this the first year of its existence, encourage 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub- 
scription list. 

It is desirable that subscrptions be forward- 
ed without delay, so that they may be enter- 
d before the approaching Congress. 

Adpress L. P. NOBLE, 

Publisher of the Natoual Era Washington, 
D. C. 



RELIGION AND RUM.— The Barq.e 
'atalapa sailed fiom Boston a few week: 
! nce for Ihe Mediterranean, having on boar< 

number of Missionaries and forty thouaxnt 
dllons of New England Rum. 

Rum & Grave Si-ONES-Not lonp 
<ince a vessel arrived at Augusta 
oaded with rum and grave ttonetl 
Vherever rum goes, there will lx 
t demandfor grave stones. All the 
nsignia of death and the gravt 
hould follow the damning draughi 
hat leads there. 



■arnestly recommend to^all those in'errested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth. If should be read 
by every body,*particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



{&=> AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY. — The office of this Society is at No 
12 Spruce street New York. Its field of 
■perations l as hitherto been principally a- 
nong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
he Mendi Mission, in Africa, but ex- 
jects to extend its field. It does not receive 
:on'ributions from slaveholdrs, and is highly 
leserving of support from the friends of 
lissions. 

Lewis Tappanof N. Y. is Treasurer. 



(jtj. PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
for 1S4S. — FOWLERS|& WELLS of ?13l 
Nassau Street, New York, have published 
and have for sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for >.1S4S. Besides the 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the- 
U. S., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Martiueau, Charles Dickens, Horace 
Greely, Thoma Wildey, Zachary TayJor, 
Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, Tom Thumb 
Dr. Sewall and Stephen Olin, with a brief 
and interesting sketch™of the character of 
each, considered inja phrenological [point of 
view. 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, Sr 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend of truth. 



ft^WATER CURE— Although we are 
ot prepared to give all the credit to Hydro- 
athv that is claimed for it by its f. iends,we 
re firm in the belief that the real value of 
vater, simple pure water, as a means of pre- 
senting and curing, disease, is appreciated 
iv tew in (his world, and we tire rejoiced to 
;ee the attention of the people turning to- 
vards it, as a means of health. We are 
villing to place it at the head of the list of 
irticles that are used for the preservation and 
restoration of health. 

We have on our table the AVater cure Re- 
porter published by F D.Pierson M. D.&. C. 
I. Weeker M. D. No. IS &20 Eastfour- 
eenth St. N. Y. monthly at 50 cents a year, 
levoted to the treatment of desease by the 
Vater Cure system. 

We have also the Green Mountain Spring 
ubtished monthly at Brattleborough Vt. by 
lobert Wesselbaft M. D. devoted to the in- 
estigationof Water Cure, diet and Health, 
ither of which aff >rd light on the subject for 
II those who are desirous of knowing the 
alue of Water. 



BURDELL , ON THE TEETH, f«r 
sale at this Office, price twelve ajid a half 
cents. It is of great importance . teat a ! l 
become acquainted with the cause awl cure- 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes, 
some valuable light on the subj< ct. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



The Univercoclum. This is the ti- 
le ofa new paper published weekly in N. 
V. city by S. B. Britian at 235 Broodway 
't is principlly devoted to the spiritualities of 
Mesmerism & Clairvoiance but contains a 
onsiderable variety of other things some 
which are very good. As to Clairvoiance if 
we understand what is meant by it we con- 
sider it one of the delusions of the age. 

{^CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
i J rofes-or L1EBIG, price 20 cents, published 
>y Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themselves. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS 
An assortment ofAnti-Slaveiy Books for 
ale at this office among which are the fal- 
lowing. 

Memoir of Lovejoy, 
Emancipation in the West Indies, 
Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., 
Mrs. Child's Appeal, 
Slavery As It Is, 
Life of Granville Sharp, 
Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Hankies Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglas*, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mott's Sketches, 
Slavery As it Is, 



LIBETY TACTS — for sal e 
at this office, 

Slavery and the Slayc jtrade at 

the Nation's Ca pital, 

"Facts for" the People, 

Catcehism on the Mexican wax. 







Vol 3. 



Truth invites full and free Discussion", Error shrinks from all investigation.. 

April 27, 1848. 



No. (5. 



THE JVEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERM S. 



Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 

5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Cleveland True Democrat. 
OldJovvler the Cooa Dog. 

When I was a small boy, 1 often of a 
pleasent night joined the negroes in a coon 
chase. — Old Sambo had a dog that he 
thought a prodigy of wisdom. His name 
was Jowler. This old cur never opened on 
a wrong scent, nor backed up a wrong tree, 
for this reason Sambo regarded him as the 
wisest of all the canine race, and made him 
a special favorite. His best bone was* al- 
ways given to Jowler, and his fame was her- 
alded throughout the neighborhood. Jow- 
k*r's action was on this wise: When the oth- 
er dogs struck the trail of a coon, and bound- 
ed away with a loud yelping, he was always 
in tint rear, snuffing along very carefully, and 
making no noise. After the "varment" was 
treed, he would come up and smell very 
leisurely at the roots of all the trees around, 
and observe very closely the eyes of all the 
other dogs. When he saw that they were 
looking m one direction and balking very 
fiercely, he would look that way too for sev- 
eral minutes without winking, and ascertain- 
ing beyond a peradventure that the coon was 
there he would lift up his harsh voice so 



loudly and with such an appearance of earn-j 

estness, that you would think the very heav- Thev will answer Nothin 



measurs are judicious, they often prove ab- 
oritve, because they are not sustained by a 
commanding influence. .Men of talent and 
station look coldly on, and wish the enterprize 
success. If asked to join it, they excuse 
themselves on the ground that the time for 
action has not yet come, or that the multi, 
plicity of their engagements precludes the 
possibility of their giving any attention to it 
at present. 

The true state of the case is that they are 
afraid of being found yelping on a false scent, 
or barking up the wrong tree. Just let any 
reformatory enterprise become popular — let 
them see that it has grown in favor with the 
multitude, and then they are prepared even 
to make it a hobby. But so careful of their 
reputation are our greet men, that few of 
them in any department of society, are ever j 
found in the van of reform. 

How was it in the incipiency ol the Tem- 
perance cause? How is it at, this moment, 
when strong drink is retailed contrary to 
law in some 160 places in the city of Cleve- 
land? What dog of reputation moves his 
tongue? What are the jugdes, lawyers, 
physicians and clergymen there, doing to re- 
form this abuse? 

A united and vigorous effort of those class- 
es would create such public sentiment as 
would lead to the immediate suppression 
of this evil — But it is not made; and why 
not? Some — I fear many of them — lack the 
requisite principle, and others the moral 
courage. Who dares to slake his reputation 
on an attempt, by process of law, to arrest 
this evil in the Weddell, the Franklin, or the 
New England House? — Gentlemen of influ- 
ence patronize the liquor rooms in those 
genteel houses, and wo betide the man whose 
bread or office depends on popular suffrage, 
that should grapple with the vitiated tastes 
that are gratified there, or with the avarice 
| of the landlords. ' 

And what can the common people do' — 
This is a mis- 



From the Univercudum. 

The R e for m e r . 



'ecclesiastics, or entrusted v. -holly to the fos- 
tering love of the despot seated on the throne. 
Luther was.cnce the despised monk, *who 
The history of the world shows that all , opened and shut the Church gates, 
true Reformers have come up from what are The emissaries of thy Pope looked down 
termed the "lower classes" and the humbler j upon him with contempt, but noir he is tho 
walks of life. In whatever department or 1 'gieat head' of the Reformed Ohurch. He 
sphere J of life we turn our thoughts, 1 had no titles, no character, no wealth. lb' 
we discern there, among the most had, however, what was worth them all: a 



heroic soul, and a heart filled with love 
These were the great springs of that great., 
man's life. And it is so with all earnest men. 
The only conditions to successful Reform, 
are a true heart, and a spirit that burns with 
truth of the eternal Cod. Before such, thrones 
principalities and powers, must fall. I>o veil 
of pretension or arrogance is sufficient to re- 
sist its searching power. 

No seat so high, that it may not be nttuiu- 
ed by the hand of Justice and Love. 

Boston, Muss., Jan.lS4S 



active and faithful spirits, the weak, the 
unwise the poor. Indeed, these are the nec- 
essary conditions to a reform character, when 
we come to consider how blinding and en- 
slaving are the wisdom, and honors, and rich- 
es of this enigmatical world. Those who are 
not tried by adversity — who feel not the deep 
want of knowledge, or who know nothing of 
the horrors of poverty, cannot go forth fitted 
to the work of Salvation and Reform. The 
necessity of change and improvement cannot 
be seen by those who arc not reached by the 
cause that urges the demand. Hence, every 
change in the political economy of the world, 
its social customs, or in the religious faith or Salaries or the Royal Family or E.\c;- 
practice of men, has originated with the low- 1 land, &c. — The following are the annual 



ly and the oppressed. "Not many wise men 
after the flesh, not many mighty, not many, 
noble, are called." No reform. of any mo- 
ment is recorded in the- annals of histroy, 
that was not originated and furthered by ob- 
scure, uninfluemial, unpopular men. And 
yet no objection is more common on the part 
of Conservatives both of Church and State, 
than, that Reformers are ignorant, uninfluen- 
liil or poor. Earnest men, who would do 
something for humanity, by opposing some 
old error, rooting out some old custom or 
form, are sneeringly told to give place to the 
wise and the great. If they are young, they 
are tauntingly told to wait until their "beards 
are grown." Are they humble and; unas- 



sums aifdwed from the public money to her 
Majesty, the different branches of the royal 
family, and for the support of the royal house- 
hold, or officers of State: — The Qu-:;n. her 
Majesty's privy purse-, besides Buckingham 
Palace, St. James's Palace, Windsor Ca*:!e, 
and the Royal Pavilion, Brighton, £(38,000; 
salaries of the great officers of the royal house- 
hold and officers of State, and of the establish- 
ments of the various departments of the hous- 
hold, including retired and superannuation 
allowances to old servants in those depart- 
ments, £131, 2S0; expenses of the household 
in the depertments of the Lord Chamberlain, 
Lord Steward, Master of the Horse, and Mis- 
tress of the robes, £172,500; royal bounties* 



suming, they are told to wait until they be- | and charities, and special service, &c. £23,- 
come "distinguished for thought and investi- j 000; pensions, £7,500; unappropriated mon»y 
gation" in the world. | £S,040; total, £470,000. His royal High- 

Insolence passes with them* too often for ! ness ftfince Albert, consort of her Majesty, 



«n< must be torn down. j t a k e . They can do much — nay everything. ( learning and a party name for eminence and j bein^ his privy purse ^fe.secret services ' and 

This was a signal for action. "Now, boys,".[is 0 t however, directly, but by a slower, j attainment in this great world. Look at the * other offices, £40,000; Ernest, Duke of Cum- 



Sambo would say, "you may begin to chop. 
— Dts de right tree; de coon there, no mis- 
take: — old Jowler say so, and he al'ays know.' 

But notwithstanding the high estimation 
set upon Jowler, and the many tokens of 
special favor bestowed upon him as the con- 
sequence, 1 could not but regard the cur with 
feelings of contempt. True, he was a sa- 
gacious old fellow, and never barked up the 
wrong tree, but he never treed the coon. 

lie was governed solely by selfishness. He 
had a high reputation, and thought vastly 
more of preserving that than of catching 
the "varmint." The other dogs acted 
promptly, and sometimes made mistakes. 
But on the whole they were efficient. 

It was not so with Jowler. He wis ai- 
rways behind and never barked until othes 
had done the work. Then his breath could 
very well be spared, and the dogs that treed 
the coon should have the credit of it. 

Among men there are a great many Jowl- 
ers. Such are most men in high station?. 
They have a reputation of which they are 
very careful. There are important reforms 
to be wrought but the public mind is not ful- 
ly prepared for them, and their success is un- 
certain. Men of limited powers and influ- 
ence, seeing what is wanted, go forth with a 



people simply, but of a whole race. Jesiis 
ol Nazareth was a carpenter's son. lie 
made no pretentions to rank, influence, learn- 



though not less certain process. The power j origin of Christianity: one of the greatest Re- 
is in their hands if they will but use it. Let | forms ever began. Contemplating a revolu- 
them mark every noble violator of the. law, tion ofthe Avhole oUt not Q { a nal ; on or 
and all his noble patrons. Let them employ ' 
whatever influence they have in diverting- 
custom from the rum selling to the temper- 
ance hotels. Let them divert business from 
merchants and professional men who patron- 
ize the contemners of the laws. And let 
them withhold their votes in all coming time 
from those despisers of this benevolent reform 
who are dependent on popular suffrage for 
office. 

Thus — and perhaps only thus — by a steady 
united and persevering eflbrt, the friends of 
Temperance and good order can arrest this, 
darinjr evil. 



berland, now king of Hanover, 'with Kevy 
Palace, £21,000, his Royal High.ess theD.uka 
o2 Cambridge, £21,000; Prince Caorge of 
Cambridge, £0,000; Princess Augusta Car- 
oline, his sister, married June SSL l^il, to 
his Royal Highness Frederick William, He- 



did not stop to consider whether he was 
possessed of all the worldly qualificatons or 
not. The world would fester in corraptsujj 
and fall by the weight of its own sins, if it 
wai'ed for the. "wise men," either of Church 
or State, to redeem it, and establish itiutruth 
and love. Men who are ensconced inplaecs 
of profit and power, have no soul for stem- 

m. If I ™« the totIcn l of P ublie 0 P InIoa > and la >'- 

therefore, men of tallents and influence will ' axe at th(; root oI ' 1,uman custom and 

not take hold of this enterprise, those of fee- ^ >li r . P ,' . 

Ihe priest, who revels in his palace — cal. 



ing or wealth. He went forth like a Man i rcdiiary Grand Dukeof Meckten burgh Streliu 
who felt that he was called of God. He j £5,000; her Royal Highness Mary, Duchess 



bier power must. In our country the mass- 
es have the control. Let them exercise in 
this case the advantages they possess and 
triumph will crown the effort. 

All great reforms have been principally 
wrought by men of moderate talents, on 
whom the great ones ofthe earth have first 
looked with contempt. Old Jowler's place 
is always in the rear. Then wait not for 
him to go before. For you may rest assured 
that you will never hear his harsh voice till 



hearty good will, and do the best they can. ; a f te r the coon is treed. 
But owing to their lack of capacity, they! Now reader how many "old jowlers" do 
make many mistakes; and even when their, yQU know anio|? g thc b i pe( j s . 



led aiChurch, and, is attended by those who 
obey his nock, has no heart for wishing the 
'Church' reformed. He would be disturbed 
in his dreamy life, if he allowed thc 'radical' 
reform to be obtruded in the midst of 
the elect. So with the king, who sits upon 
his throne. He has no interest in the po- 
litical Reforms, other than to keep their 
noise far from his ears. Such deride prog- 
ress and endeavor to crush all who paint it on 
their banners, and makeit their constant cry. 
A sad world tlii-s would be, if left to the 



of Gloucester, relict of the late Duko of 
Gloucester, £13,000; her Royal •Highness 
Princess Sophia, with Greenwich Palace and 
Park, £13,000; the trustees of his Majesi y 
Leopold, King of the Belgians, as widower 
of her late Royal Highness Princess Char- 
lotte, daughter of George the IV. withClare- 
mont Palace, £50,000; he- Majesty Adelaide, 
the Queen Dowager, relict of King William 
IV. beside the Royal Manor and Palace of i 
Hampton Court, the Park and domains of 
Bushy, and also Marlborough House in Pall 
Mall, two: parks and three royal palaces, 
£100,000; h-r Royal Highness the Duchfss 
of Kent, mother of her Majesty, with Frog- 
more Lodge, Windsor, £32,000; the Duchess 
of Inverness, relict of his Royal Highness 
the Duke of Sussex, £10,000 per annual, 
with Kensington Palace. 



{fc^Died in Bergen County a week or two 
since, Charity Berry at the advanced age of 
one hundred and ten years. She w» much 
noted it is said, for her oppesiton to light 
uardiancare of the lattencd and pampered I £a cin°-. 



THE FREEMAN. 

BODNTQN, APRIL 27, |S43. 



* my. Under our pro-slavery laws a young 
! nwri was dragged frdm the villiage of Boon- 
ton ft fcw weeks since by a constable because 
' he hail absconded from a man who paid bis 



Tc tti-U *r_;;ii, to do right, for its own sake, [ laborers by the lasb instead of the cash and 
•« BeH+dKboe, is Religion, is Christianity. is held in bondage under New Jersey law 

i which in fact is rendered null and void by 

the Bill of rights above cited. 

$_r» As we fail .somtitr.es to get a paper out 
iii the regular time it may be necesury per- 
haps to state that it takes twelve numbers 
to make a year. W.> trust however thai 
wc shail so<-n have business so arranged 
us to be more rogular. 



{Jty-THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOG- 
ICAL JOURNAL for April is before us. It 
is as usual filled with very useful matter, 
contains an article on Hereditary descent 
which should be read by every one. It is 
' .- vWe have not yet got our arrangements | published by Fowler afcd Well's 331- Nassau 



completed f>r th? regulai publication of the 
Freeman, but hope so<rti to have ihem com 
ttlotcd. 



"A SALUTARY FERMENTATION." 

All Europe is n a siste of fermentation — 
We intended to write out a few thoughts on 
this subject, but lime DOT space will permit. 
Jt reality, w s do a«t think it necessary. All 
know what has taken place in France, and 
the same work is going on all over Europe, 
Despot*, the Oppressors of the poor arc trem- 
bling, and flying for safety from an enraged 
atopic The tide is turning in favor of the 
poor. Trie power of those who have rolled 
in affluence a^.J indolence at the expense of 
the industrious and opp-esscd poor is forever 
broken. The mass of the peonls r the work- 
in* peoptoi are begtning to mu'erstaud their 
rights, and trvy know th:ir strength. Louis 
Philippe has fi d Prince Meiteruich I as been 
deposed, hope ii kindling Up again in the 
p^or Poles. The great Autocrat of Russia 
is u:;eai»y and knows that bis time is sln>it. 

Prussia, Bavaria, Lombard) - , Italy, Ireland 
arcs aii in a state of rebellion against that 



St. N. Y. at one dollar a Year. 

$3-THE INDUSTRIAL AGENT is the 
title of a New Paper started in New York 
devoted to the common interest of the "Ap- 
printiee, the Journeyman, the Employer" 
and every thing that appertains to iabor and 
trade, and is calculated to do much good in 
that sphere and contains much other interest- 
ins matter With the general news of the dav. 
It is published by Win. Newell and Co. 136 
Nassau' St. N. Y. at $2,00 a year. 



Death o* a Faithful Man. — Win, 
Raymond, who has had charge of the Meudi 
Mission since its commencement, died recent- 
ly at Sierra Leone. It is a great loss to that 
Mission. He was a self sacrificing untiring 
man in a good cause. We have not he*rd 
of a death siuce -the death of Torrey that 
so excited our sympathies. He was success- 
ful! in carrying out the peace principle jn the 
Mission amid the most imminent peril. 



A National Convention of the Liberty- 
League is to be held in Rochester on the 31. 
May next at 10 o'clock A. M. for the pur- 
pose of nominating a candidate fur the Vice 
Presidency and the transaction of other bus. 
mess. 

A liberty League Convention for the nom- 
ination of State officers is to be held in Roch- 
ester on the seccond clay of June next at 10 
o'clock A. M. 



{j£5»P' SITION AND DUTIES OF THE NoRTII 

with REGARD to Slavery. 



PerpetuaK unpaid toil; no marriage, no 
husband, no wife; no parent, no child; igno- 
rance, licentiousness; whips, chains, scour- 
ges, auction sales and separations; an em- 
bodyment of all the woes that the imagina- 
tion can conceive. 

^July 13th, 1847, at 10 o'clock A. 
M., ihe UNITED STATES GOVERN- 
MENT sold at public Auction, in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, Two Women, for $530, & 
put the money into the United States Treas- 
ury. What have we»of the North to do 
with the government/ Let it be remember- 
ed that this money goes to help pay the ex- 
penses of an aggressive war on a sister re- 
public, for the acquirement of more slave: 
Territory. 



From the London Telegraph-. 
FOREIGN SLAVE-TRADE. 



This is the the title of a well written tract 
of 24 pages, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
pubiisned by Charles Whipple -of Newbury - 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some sthalPpoiiKs but as- a whole it 
NEW LIBERTY PAPER contains 'mtich' valuable matter &. we wish 

,* " ,, every man in the free Stages might read it. 

I he Iowa hreeman, is the title oi a new ..." ., , . , . %. l 

We are ccla;n that no truly honest Norm- . ,. 
Liberty paper just started at Fort Madison | ern man ^ ^ jt ^ £ ^ he fc^jf^t has been given 

in Iown at $2 a year, It is the first paper of noln i ns to do with slavery, 
the kind in that State and Edited by A. St. The facts set forth in this tract proves con- 
Clair. It is a large paper and well filled clusively that Slavery has had, and stiil does 
with excellent matter and we shali rejoiceto have much to do with us. But let it be read 
see it well sustained. ! it will speak fur itself. It is for Sale by Win 

.. ' Harued 22 Spruce Street N. Y. 



The Looking Glass. — This is the ti- 
tle of a small monthly Anti-Slavery paper 



Lord George Benfinck's Committee on 
sugar and coffee planting is, it is reported, 
relieving the tediousness of the dismal com- 
plaints of the West Indians by taking evidence 
on the flourishing condition of slave-sugrtr 
countries, and the slave-tradej'ahd if all the 
reports which are in cicuialion be true, some 
very extraordinary testimony on the latter 
We, of course, 
know nothing with precision; but the state- 
ments currtnt are so important, that we give 
them as we hear them. 

In reference, then, to Brazil, it is stated 
that since the admission of slave-grown su- 
gar into this country, a most extraordinary 



impetus has been given to sugar planting in 
that empire — that whole districts have been 



YOUNG AMERICA.— This is the j down to receive the sugar cane— that 

priest-proud Aristocracy : ius! Mart '' tl '" N '- War!c N - J - l) - v u * m - Laris- , Oi gan of the National Reformers, pudlished Government is making free grants of the 
that lias no long degraded human;- v. This j on . for the N***fk Anti-SlaverySociety price j by George Evans, New York, | pub i ic lfln(js f„ r thal purp ose, and that the 

spirit of reform is usiteW. It is the Ami- ! ceni We h "l'° i( ma - v a(,(, - on, P lis!l much _ It b opposed to kind mom-poly, advocates j sup .,ly of s'aves has fully kept up the dc- 



Slavery spirit. We rejoice in it. It is the I Ne * ark a 6titt f A & U P 

.rest soul cheering sign of this remarkable I m ^ M long 'US the old large paper* Will not 
age. On it rests our hope of the "good time 



freedom of the public lands and other things 
in which the poor man should feel a deepin- 



coming." We can scarcely say the sword 
has any thir.g to do with it. Its way is on- 
ward by the power of truth and it will not 
stop until the great platform of human equal- 
ity is rcccognized all over the earth. 



THE NEW JERSEY SLAVE CASES. 

One of the eases has been decided against 
the slave and we intended to give some ac- 
count of the. proceeding* in detail, but not 
having been furnished with' the particulars, 
are not able to do so. It is a matter of the 
deepest mortification that the highest judic- 
ial powers of New Jersey , called a free State, 
can in this ag? when even the Turks are a- 
bolishing slavery, repeatedly set at defiance 
every principle of Justice, and trample the 
chief corner stone of New Jersey law under 
foot, for the purpose of propping up and per- 
petuating the hateful system ofchattel slave- 
ry. Iu order to show the ineonsistencys of 
HUch decisions we here insert Sec. 1. of the 
Bill of Rights of the new Constitution of N. 
Jersey. 

BILL OF RIGHTS. 

Sec. 1st All men are by nature free and 
independent, and have certain inalienable 
rights amorg which are those of enjoying 
and defending life and liberty, acquiring, 
possessing and protecting property, and of 
pursuing and obtaining safety and happiness. 

With this plain and explicit language the 
import of which cannot be misunderstood, 
lying before our highest ministers of justice 
as the fundamental law of the state; decisions 
in favor of slavery from that source indicate 
very clearly a leaning towards injustice which 
unfits them for the stations they occupy. The 
<Lay is coming and we long to see it when 
such men will be pronounced unworthy, and 
we have no doubt posterity will place them 
where they deserve to be on the roll of infa- 



advocate the cause of the poor and oppressed j tercet. It gives useful inf»rmatioh on these 
we shall rejoice to see little papers multiply- j and other subjects, which is not to be found 
mg. These papers have enough to do in look- j in most other papers. 

ing to their own interest and the interests of! ft jg published every Saturday at $1,50 a 
the aristocracy without meddling with the in- \ - vear for sin S le C0 P. V > tkV0 or morc eo P^ 3 ^ 



terests of humanity. 

The following from the New Lisbon Aur- 
ora expresses our views of the value of small 
papers. 

"Give us little papers for independence: like 
hornets they fear not to attack monsters of 
iniquity and sting them into common decen- 
cy, while your mammouth papers go for the 
most servile conservatism, ar d wink at the 
basest wickedness. The former go for prin- 
cipal, the latter for principal and interest; the 
former lead in reforms, but the latter must be 
driven into them." 

fjrg^A Scripture Argument in fr.vor of with- 
drawing fellowship from chur'-hes and Ecle- 
siastical Bodies tolerating Slaveholding a- 
mong them, by Rev. Silas McKeen of Brad- 
ford, Vermont; This is an excellent tract of 
about 40 pages. It is published by the A- 
merican and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society 
und for sale by Wm. Earned, GljJohn Street 
New York. 

$£3* George Thompson who was confined 
for several years in the Missouri Penitentiary 
for aiding fugitive Slaves has started for Men- 
di in Africa to take the place of Wm. Ray- 
mond. He is accompaned by A. J. Carter 
and takes out a printing press with him. 

{Jr^-The Anniversary of the American and 
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society will be held in 
the Broadway Tabernacle, New York on 
Thursday May 9th at 0 o'clock P. M. 

A public breakfast will be given on Wed- 
nesday May 10 at half past seven o'clock A. 
M. iu the Lecture Room of the Tabernacle. 

The New Government of France has a- 
bolished Slavery in all its Colonies. 



%l each, and for a large numbet a still great- 
er discount. 



rnand. It is calculated that hot fewer than 
70,000 slaves were imported into Brazil from 
Africa in the year 1S47 ; that upwards of 
100,000 left Africa for Brazil in that year; 
and that not fewer than 30,000 human bcimrs 
perished in the middle passage, the victims 
of our slave trade policy. We say the vic- 
tims of that policy, for it is established that 
the main causes of this awful mortality are 
the crowded state of the slavers, the length 
A call for a "World's Reform Convention of me voyage, and the want of water on the 
to be held in the city of New York com- vovage. In many of the slavers there are 
mencing on the fiirst Monday of June,! S4!>,"| between decks of six feet not fewer than 
lias been issued by Arnold Buffium and o'lh- | three tiers, in Which lay the unhnppy slaves, 
ers. It is "to be composed of delegates of j parrallel to each other, on their sides, oflea 
both sexes, chosen by the friends of Refoim ! crammed down and packed in by violence, 
in all christian lands, for the adoption of mens- ■ p rom tnrse horrid places they are never al- 
ures wis. ly calculated to accelerate the pro- j l„ wc d to come on deck; thev cannot b* 
gross of improvement, by the abrogation of clr _ ned) 1)llt i ive i„ an atmosphere of fetS 



all institutions, customs, and circumstances, 
which Mand in the way of universal advance- 
ment in knowledge, virtue, and happiness; 
preparatory to the prevalence of that religion, 
which gives meat to the hungry, drink to 
the thirsty, clothing to the naked, and a home 
to the houseless stranger; and final'y, giving 



gasscs, receiving only one draught of water, 
and that frequently impure, daily. Whei* 
the length of the voyage exceeds 20 days — 
and it sometimes reaches P0 — the mortality 
commences; nor docs it terminate w ith the 
i debarkation;ffw one-tenth of the number act- 



io its possessor a home in the 'mansions of j "ally hided, die, it is said, within eight-and- 



eternal glorv." 



^WANTED.— A Boy from 12 to 15 
years of age; one that possesses a character for 
industry, integrity, and sound moral princi- 
ple; one that will be willing for a time to do 
a little work of various kinds, and be useful 
to others in a variety of ways, and beneficial 
to himself, with leisure and opportunity for 
intellectual improvement that Dr. Franklin 
never had, can apply at this Office, when 
further particulars w ill be made known. 

A part of his employment will be setting 
type. Terms liberal. 

"If the Pulpit be silrnt whenever, or 
wherever, their may be within the hearing 
of its voice a sinner, bloody with the guilt of 
Slavery, The Pulpit is false to its trust." 

Daniel Webster. 



forty hours afterwards. 

Yet are the proffits of the trade so great 
(hat GOO per cent, is frequently realized on 
the capital employed in it. The price givcu 
for the survivors can be "repaid out of their 
labor in less than two years. 

Now, for these causes of this shocking 
mortality— the crowded state of the slave 
ships, the length of the voyage, and tie 
want of water—our cruising system is respon- 
sible. The risk of the veuture caused by 
that system leads directly to this overcrowd- 
ing of "the slavers; the number of our cruis- 
ers induces a round-about and lengthened 
voyage; and as any article that will hold an, 
extra quantity of wnter is deemed an article 
of slave equipment, nnd, as such, subjects the 
vessel, If captured, to condemnation, it is 
owing to that stipulation in our treaties that 
there is a want of the mesns of carrying wa- 



ter on board slavers. Hence, in 1S47, it is, j 
as we are told, dialed, on competent author- 



MORAL COURAGE 
Never be afraid to do right, because some 



ity, to Lord George Bentinck's Committee, bf ^ y w jj| laugh at you. Never do wrong 
that 30,000 slaves perished in the middle because' that somebody Drill applaud you. 
passage between Africa and Brazil, and that | Neves be ashamed of an old hat, if it is well 
10,000 died within two days after their being j brushed, and the best you have; nor of an 
landed; and what is there in the proceedings 1 0 ]<J coat, if to get another, yon must go in 

debt for it to the tailor. 

Dig potatoes, hoe corn, maul rails, carry 
mortar, do any thing that is useful, rather than 
be indolent; and don't skulk behind some tree 
or creep into a hole, for fearsome simpleton 
will see volar patched breeches and laugh at 



of our cruisers to compensate humanity for 
ibis s;id outrage on it? Why, the aunual av- 
erage of the number of slaves released by 
these captures does not exceed 3,000. In 
spite of their vigilance, 100,000 were expor- 
ted in 1S47 for Brazil; because of their vig- 
ilance 30,000 of that number perished! 



to show their selfishness, which ho did suc- 
cessfully from their own documents. The 
scale of ages ranging from IS to 4fl, requires 
high fees for initiation, being from $3 to $10 
and over 50 years one dollar' a year in ad- 
dition to the $10 isretpifed'of applicants to 
obtain membership, in the tents of the Rcch- 
abitcs. This is rather expensive for a large 
majority of people — end so of the sons of 
temperance. We go for a temperance which 
is free to all, like the gospel once was." 



fg§?» It is reporter* teat- the Kecfia&*.« Tms 
in ftahway in this has Wen - dissolve i ' 

{j&Rucaabites! Havhabitcs!! very d?.-. lite 
like snakes. Lucy. 



The Ripley Presbytery' of Ohio have re- 



^ OU. 

Let peoj 



Not low enough yet. — The authorities body and your mind are your own. I 
of the City of Charleston, S. C, have prohib- j they calinot stDop to i a b or , von can. If the;/ 
•^i^m^f^^^mUdh^^ b . have, or at any rateg arc 

ist Church, South," because it retains a see- * «J ' •> ■ 



solved to exclude from the communion of the 
pie understand, and plainly, that a n mem bers of secret aflijUsd soci- 



tion of the general discipline of the Church 
which testifies to to the "great evil of slave- 
ry" and enquires how it may be"extirpated.' 

The Methodist Church South has bowed 
very low to the Slaveholders, already but it 
seems she has got to bow lower, and alter the 
Discipline again. As it has fully enlisted in 
•the service of slavery, it no doubt will be 
very obedient, and expunge the remainder ol 
the offending matter from the Dicipline. 



A Colored Lawyer. — The Boston Trav- 
eller, of 2 1st of Jan says: 

"Robert Morriss Jr., a colored man ad- 
mitted to the bar some turn; since made his 
appearance in the Court «f common Pleas, J thoroughly examined, ami which you know 
this morning ;is couus 1 in acase about to be j t0 be correct. Well,to be\cal!ed a bigot is 



rying to get the same 

You will, now and then, have persons come 
to' the door or the window, to peep at you, 
is you pass along. Let them peep and be sat- 
isfied. — You wilt, fts often, have to pass the 
corners of streots, the fronts of shops, and 
certain other resting places, and be stared at 
by a group of verdant youths and tatterdem- 
a'io-is. congregating the;- • fori the special pur- 
nose of cracking jokes, ami insulting decency. 
Pass on, hold up your head, and let the pooi 
flies buzz. Their day will soon be gone. 

You will sometimes be called a blind bigot. 
| for defending a few principles which you have 



elie9) and they recogntsft ike Sous si tcmper- 
ancer-as constituting such en association. 



TEMPERANCE. 




tried, The Counsel opposed was Hon J. C 
Park." 



Refohm. — The number of offen- 
ces committal against person or 
property in Koine in June, 1846 
was 5UU, in July 340 u\ August 3(30 
in September 200, anti in October 
Ii2. 

Ct has a population of over 300- 
000 So«th Carolina over 000,000. 
In Ct. there are 520 persons over 
20 years of a<re that cannot read or 
write In S. C. 20,000 free while 
persons over 20 who cannot read 
or write. 



hard; but to be called ajblhid bigot, one who 
cannot ami will not see, is still harder. Never 
mind it, however. Try to keep your temper, 
and may be you will live to prove the falsity 
of their assertions. 



Anti-Sectarian. 

The body of Christians formerly known as 
the "Liberty St. Presbyterian Church oi 
Trov,N. Y." unanimously passed the fol- 
lowing resolutions on Sunday evening, March 
5th. 

Whereas, Sectarianism is at variance with 
the spirtit and letter of the Gospel — and is 
the foundation of fill ecclesiastical oppression 
and is a most prolific source of wars and sla 
Our attention has been arrested by the two VCI 7 > and man y othe1 ' oppressions that afflict 
following advertisements appearing in hand j thc world— then fore, 

bill form, which a friend from Delaware has Resolved, That the members of Christ's 
been kind enough to put into our hands. The bod - v > heretofore denominated "The Liberty 
... -° K . ... I St Presbyterian Church of Troy N. Y.," do 

coincidence of names is quite remarkable: , , - , ,. ,, _ . . 

! hereby solemnly repudiate all Sectenanism. 



"{^.->A Guehilla. We are told that the 
Litchfield Republican has attacked the Foun- 
tain, but with a cowardly discretion refrain? 
from sendnig us a copy of the paper. 

That's right, friend, stick to the chappar 
al and blaze av.av. 

By so doing you will ensure your owji 
safety, at least, even if you fail to injure your 
enemy — Coim . Fountain. 

Brother Tracy may as well still bear it pa- 
tiently. It's only the nature of some people. 
We all of us get used to missing numbers cf 
papers. It spares trouble. Some folks are 
not worth shooting. lis only defiling one's 
self to take hold of the reptiles w ho grub un- 
der ground, afraid to show what they have 
done. — xY. Y. Vi'askingtonian March 4 1848 

"Them's our sentiments," Mr. Washing- 
tonian; now just be a little consistent and o- 
pen the doors of \ our secret Lodges, Come 
out of the " Chapparal" and be no longer 
'the reptiles who grub under ground, afraid 
to show what vou have done." 



E"Gmcstic Pcf.ce end Joy, Health j Wealth 

and ior.jr Life. 



V EiSDL E. — The Undersigned will sell at , 

~., , °, _,, c , | sincerely regrettnnqr. before God and men 
Thursday, the 7lh of Jan. , J ° ° , . 

' that we ever gave countenance to that de- 
structive device of Satan. 

Resolved, That we shnll hereafter be 



public vendue, on 

next, at the late residence of Thomas Slaugh- 
ter, deceased, in Murderkill Hundred, Kent 
Co.. Delaware, all the personal property of 
said deceased, consisting of five good work 
horses, ( hree colts, one yoke of oxen, five 
mi k cows, &c, &e. 

Also at the same time, tiro negro Men, two 
Boys, andtico Girls, ai.i. *i.avi:s ion. live. 

R, McGoMc/.L, Adm,r. 

But there is many a slip between the cup 
and the lip. These "two negro men" had 
quite enough of the Slaughter family and 
Mwrderlall county, and being duly notified by 
the advertisement of their danger, took asuit- 
able opportunity to make their escape — as 
w e learn from the oiherliand bill, which runs 
us follow-,: 

$200 REWARD.— Ranaway from the 
lat<- residence of Thomas Slaughter, deceas- 
ed, in Murderkill Hundred, Kent County, 
•State of Delaware, two negro slaves, the 
property of the late Thomas Slaughter, one 
of them named Alexander Moore, who is a 
mulato, about five feet three inches high, has 
a down look when spoken to, and is about 
40 years of age; the name of the other is Isaac 
Miller, who is very black, about five feet 
nine inches high, stout built, quick spoken, 
has a pert look and is about 23 years old. 
The above reward of* 200 will be given for 
the securing of them both in Dover gaol, pro- 
vided they are apprehended out of the State, 
or $125 for the said Isaac, and $75 for the 
said Alexander, provided they are apprehen- 
ded and secured as aforesaid. 

Robert McGomgai,, Adm'r. 
Thomas Slaughter dee'd . 

Jan <i 1 S.ir I* 



known as "The Church in Liberty St Troy 
N. Y.," and that we shall acknowledge, nc 
other creed than the Bible, and no other heati 
than God and his Son Jesus Christ. 

Resolved, That God hau but one Church 
on the earth,, and that jit vs composed of ah 
such as love Him, and keep his command- 
ments; and thnt these, in their Church rela 
tious, are equal in rights and liberty. 

Signed, Heneuy H. Ganet. 

tg jgjgjgB BSSSSBSSBSSSSS ES5SB55BBBB3BCB9BBBi 



(if^The Sons of Temperauce are out in 
the Western Citizen with an address to the 
people of Illinois, in which it is stated that 
th&ir Order was instituted in 1S42 in New 
York by sixteen Washingtonians, but the 
fact is not given, that these sixteen, consisted 
of eight Odd Fellows and eiyht Free Masons. 



Secret Societies. 

"JVo man Ughteth a candle and 
puttcth it under a bushel:' 

l: Havc no fellowship icilh tk<£ un- 
fruitful works of darkness." 



Assination Clubs.— -As an instance of the 
character and the proceedings of the confeder- 
acy, we beg to record one fact conimunica- 
.ed to us by a gentlemen who possesses prop- 
erty ii; the county Tipnerary, an has left his 
residence for Dublin. — He says that in the 
neighborhood where Mr. Roe was assassina- 
ted, there is a house in which spirits are sold, 
ind in thc center of the room on the kitchen 
ivhere thc conspiratores occasionally alem- 
bic, there is a round table. Any member 
who is desirous to ha ve a man shot writes the 
iiiime of the victim on the table with chalk, 
with the precise amount of the sum to be 
laid for the "pb." If the individual be seme 
>f the poorer classes of society, or a respect- 
able farmer, the. task is undertaken and ac- 
complished without farther notice; if he be a 
landlord or an agent, a jury is summoned, a 
mock trial takes place, and the individual 
marked out for slaughter is formally convic- 
ted, and persons nominated to carry out the 
sentence — just with the same secrecy as that 
observed bv the Fehmn-gericht of Westphalia 
in the middle a^es. — Carlow Sentinel. 



From The New Lisbon Aurora. 

"Thc Rechabites, a sort of masonic temp 
erance association, which begun operation; 
somewhere in Europe, and has aliiliated 
branches in this country, has recently been 
met by discussion. Dr. Grimes, editor of 
the New Jersey Freeman, a Liberty paper, 
had a considerable debate with thc champ- 
ions of some of the 'tents' in and about Boon- 
ton in which occasion the brethren stuck to- 

Tethe like hrotlr.fTm.Tannc Tlr rt'cnlmn 



Hon. C. D. Golden, of N. Y. once a dis- 
tinguished Free-Mason, say.'-, "A combina- 
tion that secretly Selects its favorites, secret- 
ly adopts its measures for their advancement 
and has its secret communications from one 
end of the Continent to the other, most be ad- 
verse to the wholesome action of a free repub- 
lican government. I repeat, that it is the du- 
ty of every one who values the equality, lib- 
erty and happiness of ourrepublie, to endeav- 
or to destroy the influence of such associa- 
tions." 



£0=Tite License Law. — The repeal of* 
the License law should wake up every Tem- 
perance man in the State, and turn his atten- 
tion to the pitiful timeserving ci urse of the 
leading influences among whigs and Dem- 
ocrats, the two groat contending parlies for 
power in this State. Ii will not take the 
keenest understanding to perceive that a- - 
mong Whig and Democratic Temperance 
men, however much zeal they may posess in ■ 
the cause. Temperance is only a 'secondary 
consideration. 

If the interest' of party requires it, all arc 
ready to put temperance, or any other 
moral question under foot* at once. Par- 
ty, is the Alpha & Omega- among them all. 
Hence the License law must be repealed al- 
though it has not been in existence long en- 
ough to be tried. A Whig Legislature pas- 
sed the law and it was feared the Democrats 
might reap some advantage from it and u,-- 
Whig Legislature must repeal it, and the otju 
er party would have done no brtter. Th« - 
great business of each party in the Legisla- 
ture is to Lsgtslate for its own perpetuity, hi 
ibis right ? Is this what we ought to expect 
and require of our lawmakers •' -We do noti 
believe it. We believe that the utter ex- 
tinclion of the whig and democratic parly 
spirit cf this laud would be or.e of the great- 
est blessings that could be bestowed upon the. 
people of this Nation. It would open the 
eyes of the great mass of the people of this 
land to the true wants and interests of tin: 
whole. They would then tee the necesi- 
ty of turning their attention to other a».d 
vastly more important tilings. We are sick 
ti see the willingness which many professed 
temperance men manifest to make excuse 
and apologyze for the repeal of the law, be- 
cause the Sunday clause is substituted. Tliere 
must be some selfish or party end to be gain- 
ed by men whj're they can be en easily satis- 
fied with the repeal of a law which they had 
labored so zealously to get enacted. How 
much bi neflt will thc sunday clause dototliB 
mass of the people, or 'the great cause of 
temper mce? We 'believe little or uon-. 'I'k.v 
law will be evaded in every possible wnyji 
and besides the evasions, their will be aaipi » 
opportunity for men to secure enough drink 
on Saturday night to last until Monday morn- 
ing and the old practice of keeping the bottle 
of liquor in private families will to some ex- 
tent be renewed and children again be taught 
the uae of the accursed sliifi'. Again, we 
have always protested against thc adoption 
of the Sunday clause, becausd it is anindir- ct 
acknowledgement of iho rightfulness of the. 
sale and use of those liquor on other days, 
and is therefore- a flagrant violation of thc great 
fundamental law upon which rests the whole 
temperance enterprise, that law w hich mabvg 
it amoral wrong to manufacture, sell urdrink 
the intoxicating beverage. We go for noi.ii. . 
less than the abolition of this accursed traihc- 
the whole seven days of the week. Just as* 
long as temperance men, will be so easily 
guiled, just as long as party politics are of par- 
amount obligation among the friends of tern- 



■""ff'T-vaariatii 



ari3 ron^&b nl loj^Tatlvo action on thesul)- 
j vr I Ivory true U'niperuiiof man imisfc thftjB 
ulaiuloii Itfs oitagiancf io these time serving 
an«i truth iVaring 



P 



For 1 1 it* New Jprsey Freeman. 



Oh when will We be free, mother. 
A weeping creature said . 
As from his weary pillow 
He raised his achciug head. 

Wlu-n that freedom fcotr.e, mother, 
1 heard j on speak cf so; 
I foar tliat dav I ne'r shall sec, 
Hone of ils pleasures know. 

Mr.sier he is rich T mother, 
, Oh purely he will fsi*e 
A something warm to nourish rue, 
i ih then I thin!; I'd Live. 

Why is it thai tre'r doomed mother, 
In misery lo die; 
\V hili! others roll in luxdry, 
Ami never need to sigh. 

Oh! tell me when the/ day will come. 
W'hcti you my rrtbther dear, 
Nojbnger dredd the oppressor's nod, 
Or frogling lyrantsfear. 

'The mother bowed her mournful head,' 
And told tin? dying lioy, 
'.('hut «ll with him would soon In: o'er 
Hi* cries he turned 10 joy, 

Hlte told lu'in of a place, 
Where no oppression dwells 
llut Love, and IVac-, mid unity 
In every bosuiii sweils. 

The morning came and saw the hoy. 
Stretched on the "rugped henrlh. 
H-\l ironii to find a better place, 
Than this polluted Earth. 

U .vr-.v. 

Jersey City March 4th 184S. 



INTEPEHANCE. 



Ignorance, vice, crime; domestic strife and 
discord; wretchedness and utter luin; murder, 
e.lalh, and woes unutterable. 



'TIME V\HOI.2> LA\J).H, 

ev M'Oanm:. 
"The United States claim to own' more 
than 1,000,000,000 acres of unsettled lands." 
SfltiAte Do*. 486, XXIXih Congress, let 
Session. 

A billion of acres of unsold land 

Are lying in grevious dearth; 
And millions of men in the image of Hod 

Are starving all over the earth! 
C>! te'l ine ye Sons Of America, 

ilow much menu souls arc worth! 

Ton hundred miKiottS of .vros good, 
That nevi r know spade or plough — 

Aud a million of souls in our goodly land, 
Are pining in want, I trow; 

A rid orphans ;ire crying for bread thin da)", 
And widdowsjn misery how! 

To whom do these acres of land belong? 

And why do they thriftless lie? 
And why is the widow's lament unheard? 

And stifled the orphans cry.' 
And why arc tho poorhousc aud prisr.ou full 

And the gallow s tree built high? 

Those, millions of acres belong to Man! 

And his claim is, — that he needs! 
And his title is signed by the hand of God- 

Our God, whom the raven feeds. 
\nd the starving soul of each famished man, 

At the throne of Justice pleads! 

Ye may not heed it, ye haughty men, 

Whose hearts us rocks are cold — 
iJutjthe time shall come when the fiat of 
God 

In thunder shall be told! 
Pot the voice of the great I AM hath said 

That the "land shall not be sold." 
Western Exchange, Phila.,Dec. 13,1847 
[Young America, 



The Rumsellcrs Dream. 

Well, wife, this is to horrible! 1 cannot 
continue this business any longer. 

Why, dear, w hat's the matter now. 

Oh such a dream, such a rattling of dead 
men's hones, such an army of starved mor- 
tals, so many murderers, such cries, and 
shrieks, and yells, and such horrid gnashing 
of teeth, and glaring of eyes, a.nd such blazing 
lire, and such de\ ils, oh! I cannot endure 
it. My hair stands on end, and I am so 
filled with horror I can scarscly speak. Oh, 
if ever I «ell rum again! 

My dear, you are frightened. 

Yes, indeed, am 1 ; another such a night 
will I not pass lor world ;. 

My dear, perhaps — 

Oli, don't talk to me. I am '"determined 
to have nothing more to do w ith fumj ivy 
how. Don't you think Tom WHson came 
to me with his throat cut from ear to ear, 
and such a horrid gash., and it was so hard 
for him to speak, and so much Wood, and, 
says he, see here, Joe, the result of your ruin- 
selling. My Wood ehiilod at the sight, and 
just then the house 1 seemed to be turned 
bottom up, the oart'i opened, and a little imp 
'dcift me by the hand, snyin follow me. As 
I went, grim devils held out to me cups of 
liquid fire, saying, drink thia. I dared not 
refuse. Every draught set me in a rage. 
Serpents hissed on each side, and from a- 
bove reached down their beds and whispered 
RuMSRj'.i.F.it. On and on the- imp led me 
through a narrow pass. All at once he 
paused, and said, are you di:v? Yes, I re- 
plied. Then li.'.~striK-k a trap door with his 
toot, and down, down, we went, and legions 
of fiery serpents rushed after us, whispering, 
iu'msei.i.kk, nuMSKU.r.rt. At length we stop- 
ped again, and the imp asked me as before, 
are you i>;:\ ? Yes I replied. He then 
(ouched a spring — a door ftew oped.. What 
a sight. There were thousands, aye, mil- 
lions of old, worn out rumdrinkers, crying 
most piteou-dy, rum, rum, give me some ruin.! 
When they saw me they stopped a moment 
to see who 1 was. Then the imp cried out 
so a* to make all shake again, r.r.Msi:r.i.i:p.! 
aud hurling me in, shul. the door. 
For a moment they fixed their ferocious ayes 
upon me, and then uttered in 'a united yell — 
damn Ht&t! — which fdled me with such ter- 
ror, I awoke. There, wife, dream or no 
dream, I never w ill sell another drop of the 
infernal Slu(F. i Will no longer be acces- 
sory to the miseries that come upon men, in 
consequence of the traliic in intoxicating 
drinks. 1 will not. 



Chemical Analysis; or Tea. — In 
the memoirs of the London chemi- 
cal Society there is an interesting 
paper hy Mr. Warrington, on the 
analysis of tea, in which he states 
that he has not only removed the 
whole of the coloring matter, or 
grazing, from green tea, but he has 
been able to analise the matter re- 
moved, and to prove it, by chemical 
evidence, to consist of Prussian 
blue and gypsum principally, So 
that in fact the drinkers of green 
tea,as it comes to the English mar- 
ket, indulge in a beverage of Chi- 
nese paint, and might imitate the 
mixture by dissolving Prussian 
blue and plaster of Paris in hot wa- 
ter. The Chinese do not themsel- 
ves drink this painted tea; they on- 
Iv sell it. — Gardner Chronicle. 



NATIONAL ERA: 
WASHINGTON CITY, DIST. OF 
COLUMBIA. 

O. BAILEY, EDITOR; .T. O. W1UTTIER, CORRES- 
PONDING EDITOR. 
, ," JU. P. NOBI.E PUBLISHER. 

The Leading purpose of this Journal is, the 
discussion of ths quesiton of Slavery, and 
the advocacy of the main principles of the 
Liberty Party. Due attention is given to So- 
cial and Political Questions of general impor- 
tance; nor arc the interests of pure Literature 
to b: overlooked. 

It aims to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in venlions or discoveries 



Judge Jay's Letter to Bishop IvEs.This 
letter has been stereotyped and is for Sale 
by William Harned at the office of the A- 
merican & Foreign Anti-Slavery Society 61 
John Street New York. At $2,40 a hundred 
3 cents single. Judge Jays writings need 
no recommendation. 



$5»"There must besomething wrong."«#j) 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 

wrong,' ' 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
affecting the progress of Society; of public j j ec t, we have laying on our table a small 
documents of permanent value; and, during ; |)0ok 0 „ the tepth b John Burdell, Dentist, 
the sessions ot Congress, to present such re- . .. . , ... . . _, . „ ... ,, 
ports of ils proeedirTgs as will convey a cor- 1 ****** and Ior *** b y Fowlers & ^ ells > 



rect idea not only of its actton, but of its 
spirit and policy. The dehatas on the ex- 
eiting 'subject* of 'Slavery anil the Mexican 
War, expected to arise in the next Congress 
will occupy a large share of its columns. 

Arrangements have been made for extend- 
ing and enriching its already valuble Depart- 
ment of Home and Foreign Correspondence. 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of tin 
finest qnalty, in ti.e.best style, at tf>~ a yeai 
payable in advance. 

The genorous spirit in which the Era has 
been welcomed by the Publtc Press, and 
the very liberal patronage it has received 
this the first year of its existence, encourage 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub- 
scription list. 

It is desirable that sttbserpttOOS he forward- 



131 Nassau Street New York, which we 
earnestly recommend to all those interrested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth. it|should be read 
by every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



f& PHRENOLOGICAL HLMANAC 
for 1848*— FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
Nassau Street, New York, have, published 
and have for sale at their ctlice the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 18-18. Besides the 
usAial Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
l T . S»., it contains portraits of Patrick Henry 
Harriet Martiueau, Charles Dickens, Horace 

■ Taylor, 



cd without delav, so that they may he enter- „ , rn r» , n , 

, , r •' ,. rT J .Oreelv, I homa Uildev, Zacharvls 

cd belore the approaching Congress. . ilvo r> r Vt t_ to 

Address L P NOBLE I Abby Hutchinson, Prof. Morse, lorn thumb 

Publisher of l he Ifa tonal Era Washington, Dr. Sewall and Stephen Olin, with a brief 

D. C. . ; and interesting sketch of the character of 

i .11,..' 

eaehq considered ih a phren ological point of 

fjt> AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 1 Vlcw ' 

CIET Y.— The office of thifs Society is at No | 

22 Spruce street New York. Its field of j CONGREGATIONALISM by Kfjp, * 
operations has hitherto been principally a- i MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
moug the fugitive slaves iu Canada, and at I COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
the Mandi Mission, in Africa, but ex-jf oc sale at this oflice. ^ These books should 
pcets to extend its field. It does not receive j h e rca( | byjcve.ry CHeBfrjo? truth. 

contributions from sla'veholdrs, and is highly I 

deserving of support from the friends of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappanof N. Y. is Treasurer. 



! BURDELL ON THE TELTH, lor 
I sale at this Office, price twelve ahd'a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
! become acquainted with the cause and Cure 
&3-WATER CURE— Although we are of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnUhca 
not prepared to give all the credit to Hydro- 'some valuable light on the subject. 

pathy that is claimed for it by its fiiends,we | 

are firm in the belief that the real value °M CLARK'S LIBERTY MLXSTREL, 
water, simple jinre water, as a means of pre- | 

venting and curing, disease, is appreciated | for * alc ot 0ffic<> - 

by few in this world, and we are rejoiced to J — 

see the attention of the people turning to- CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
wards it, as a means of health. We are of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
v/illing to place it at the head of the list of ishment, a pamphlet published by 'he New 
articles that are used for the preservation and | York Stale Society, for sale at this C-: 
reinsertion of Health. 

We iiavo on our tabfe the Water bure Re- 
potter nu'uti.-hcd by F.D.Pierson M. D.& C. 



ANT1-SLAVLRY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavery Books few 
II. Weeker M. D. No. 18 & 20 East four- 1 sa]c ut lhis officc aIllon g v bich are the fol- 

'.eenthSt. N. Y. monthly at 50 cents a year, | i oW j Bt r, 



levoted to the treatment of deseasc by the j 
Water Cure system! 

We have also the Green Mountain Spring 
published monthly at Brattleborough Vt. by 
Robert Wcsselhaft M. D. devoted to the in- 
vcsligationof Water Cure, diet and Health, 
either of which afford light on the subject for 
all those who are desirous of knowing; the 
value of Water. 



The Univercoeium. This is the ti- 
tle, of a new paper published weekly in N. j 
Y. city by S. B. Britian at 235 Broadway, j 
It isprineiplly devoted to the spiritualities ofl 
Mesmerism & Clairvoiancc hut contains a 
considerable variety of other things some 
which arc Very good. As to Clairvoiancc if j 
we understand what is meant by it we con- 
sider it one of the delusions ef the age. 

#3»CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, hy 
Professor LlEBIG, price 20 cents, published 
by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for thcmseelv 



Memoir of Lovejoy, 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Re-cord 3 vol., 

Slave's Friend '3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Kankins Letters, 
Jay's Yiew, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mott's Sketches, 
Slavery As it Is, 



LIBERTY TRACTS— ior sale 
at this office, 

Slavery and the Slave trade at 
the Nation's Capital. 

Pacts Tor the People, 
• Cat feh ism on the Mexican war. 




N 






Truth invites full and free Discussion; Error shrinks from all investigation. 



Vol 3. 



July 18, 1848. 



No 7. 



THE JVEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor; 
Boonton, Morris County, JVetv Jersey. 



TERM S. 

Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 
f> copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



SLA¥£B¥« 

Perpetual| unpaid toil; no marriage, no 
husband, »no wife; no parent, no child; igno- 
rance, licentiousness; whips, chains, scour- 
ges, auction sales and separations; an em- 
bodyment of all the woes that the imagina- 
tion can conceive. 

ft^July 13th, 1847, at 10 o'clock A. 
M., the UNITED STATES GOVERN- 
MENT sold at public Auction, in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, Two Women, for §530, & 
put the money intr> the United States Treas- 
ury. What have we of the North to do 
with the government/ Let it be remember- 
ed that this money goes to help pay the ex- 
penses of an aggressive war on a sister re- 
public, for the acquirement of more slave 
Territory. 



to the far South. They come and go by 
night and by day, ihough the night is gener- 
ally prefered for such deeds of darkness, dur- 
ing the session of Congress. A few days 
since, a drove of some thirty were taken 
South, after being kept within hearing of the 
Capitol. This insult to the freemen of the 
North, this gross violation of human and di- 
vine law, the damnable work which devils 
themselves would shrink from, is being prac- 
tised constantly in this District, under the 
semblance of law, with the sanction of Con- 
gress, and unrebuked by the committee of the 
District. How long will such abominable 
monstrosities be permitted to exist? Just so 
long as the people of the North will that they 
should. If they continue to send their 
more servile Locofoco doughfaces here, the 
curse will continue upon us. We want bet- 
ter material in our Congressional halls — 
men who are above party, who will fearless- 
ly and independantly stand by the right, 
whose moral power will be felt. Your au- 
tomaton who can merely say yes and no, on 
questions of humanity, will never effect a 
change. Let us have men who, like a few 
noble spirits here, dare to give utterance to 
to the Godgiven truths of the age, and whose 
aspirations are higher than party and office, 
and the idolaters of slavery will soon be 
made to know and to know and to feel that 
11 that there is a, God in Israel. " — Western 
Citlizen. 



all the slave states, and are often put in force, unhappy slaves are obliged to stay 



Such penalties are annexed to them that few 
ndividuals are found possessed of moral cour- 



vvith their masters as long as he 
chooses to keep them. And if the 



Slave Pens in Washington. 

The editor of the Cleveland (0.) True 
Democrat, wilting fiom Washington, gives 
the following account of the "slave pens" in 
the national capital. 

The slave pens of the city of Washington 
are sustained. The glorious stars and stripes 
of this fair-famed and Christian republic 
wave over them in triumph, and indicate to 
the law-protected slave-catcher, and slave- 1 claim tobehumj 
holder, where they can find haven of rest and 
safety for the manacled beings that power pla 



to teach a slave or free colored person to 
read the bible or take them into any suaday 
school; and the wickedness that shuts out 
chrstianity from the whole south, under such 
dreadful penalties, is regarded with the ap- 
probation of silent acquiessence by the hyp- 
ocritical preachers of Christianity at the 
north. We believe it is demoralizing and 
doing injustice to one's self and the cause of 
truth to sit under the sound of their voices. 



age sufficient to enable them to even attempt master is tired of his slaves, he may- 
sell them to another if he wishes.- 
to." 

Here is'an example of the pitiful time-ser- 
ving Christianity of this land. We'say as we 
have said before, and long felt, that there -is 
more real infidelity propogated by the chris- - 
tians of this land, (so called, )than by all the 
open infidels that have ever lived. This 
case snows in a clear light, the subserviency 
ofthe churches and the benevolent; institu- 
tions of this age with very few exceptions, 
not only with reference to slavery, but to 
every other moral question, in a base bowing 
down to the requirements of the popular sys- 
tems of wickedness that exist in this land; & 
so infatuated are they in their hypocritical 
zeal, that if any one doubts their infallibility, 
and refuses to do homage to them, 
he is paunced upon with a vindictivenesaihat 
would have better honored the dark ages. 
As long as prierfs, churches, ecclesiastical 
bodies, tract societies, bible societies, mis- 
sionary societies, and Sunday school unions, 
pursue this course, they may expect infidel' 
ity to flourish, and it will flourish as one of 
the legitimate fruits of such conduct. If 
wickedness is to be triumphant in this laad, - 
let the responsibilities be charged home whero 
•hey belong. 



Teaching a Slave to read the 
BIBLE. 

The Boston Chronotype of .the 26th. ulti- 
mo, contains the report of the trial and con- 
viction of Martha Christian at the August 
term of the Common Pieas, for 1847, in 
Wood County, Virginia, on a charge of 
teaching a slave to read the Bible! The 
following is the indictment, and we commend 
It to the careful consideration of ail who 



es within their iron grasp. As I strolled 
past one of these republican coops a few e- 
venings since, I sawissueing from aside door 
ofthe house adjoining the pen, a colored 
young man. — He came out to the road, 
and, overtook me in my walk, and as he was 
about to pass, I made an inquiry to gain his 
attention, in regard to the distance to the ar- 
senal, and what my shortest course woul H 
be? He answered with much frankness and 
accuracy, this, 5 ! and, many other questions 
that. I put to him. After gaining his confi- 
d nee and'wireingrrys.'lf.nto his good gra 
ces,' 1 inquired if he was a slave? He re- 
plied that he belonged to a Mr. Somebody, 
(the name I do not remember) who owned 
the hois; and pen near by. After giving 
me some account of his master, he answered 
inquiries in regard to the subject most upon 
my mind — the slave pen. I learned from him 
that large numbers of slaves had been kept 
in that dismal place for months past — that 
they were constantly coming and going, and 
that his business was to carry their food to 
them. They are generally crowded togeth- 
er, and some who are apt to believe that they 
are not chattels, are secured by irons upon 
the hands and feet. He informed me that his 
master was expecting a drove of a hundred 
sometime in April. Some of these slaves 
are brought here and sold, others are taken 



"Wood County to wit: — The Grand Ju- 
rors empanneled and sworn to inquire of of- 
fences committed in the body of said Coun- 
ty, on their oath present: — That Martha 
Christian, late of said County, being an evil 
disposed person, on the fourth day of July, 
in the year of our blessed Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and forty-seven, at Righteous 
Ridge, in said County, not having the fear of 
God before her eyes, but moved and instiga- 
ted by the devil, wickedly, maliciously, and 
feloniously, did teach a certain black negro 
woman named Rebecca, alias black Beck, to 
read the Bible; to the great displeasure of 
Almighty God, to the pernicious example of 
o'h?rs in like cases offending, contrary to the 
statute in such cases made and provided, and 
against the peace and digni'.y of k this Com- 
monwealth of Virginia." 

Unnatural and inhuman as it may seem, 
the defendant in this cas J was found guilty, 
and on the next morning was brought into 
the court for sentence. Judge Schacklebar 
dwelt upon the great favor extended towards 
her on her trial, the enormity ofthe offence, 
and the necessity of faithfully administering 
the law; and she was sentenced to ten years 
confinement in the Penitentiary, and to pay 
the costs. The defendant's counsel imme- 
diately appealed from the cruel sentence, and 
the parties are now awaiting a decision in 
the higher Court. 

, i 

The above is from a scrap sent to us by a I 
friend in Pennsvlvauia. Such laws exist in I 



LETTERS representing a BOOK "drop- 
ped from the Catalogue" of the AMERI- 
CAN SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION, in 
compliance with the dictation of the slave 
power. 

This is the title of a tract of 36 published 
by the American and Foreign Anti Slavery 
Society. It is what its title purports to be. 

It seems that a very excellent little book, 
entitled "Jacob and his Sons," being the se- 
cond of a series written by Rev. T. H. Gal L 
laudet of Connecticut, revised by the Com- 
mittee ot publication, and published at con- 
siderable expense by the Sunday School Un- 
ion, has been struck from their list at the 
dictation of the slave power. Some individ- 
uals in Charleston S. C, wrote to the com- 
mittee protesting against the sale of the book 
because it contained the following passage, 
and the committee, (as is usual for such com- 
mittees have generally done when the slave- 
holders spoke,) willing and ready to do hom- 
age to the south, hastened to do their work 
up in a style to suit their southern masters, 
and immediately stopped the sale of the 
book and immediately struck it from their 
list of publications. 

Here is the wonderful passage: 
What is a slave, mother'? asked 
Mary; is it a servant? 

"Yes replied her mother, slaves 
are servants, for they work for 
their masters, and wait on them; 
but they are not hired servants, but 
are bought and sold like beasts, & 
have nothing, but what their mas- 
ter chooses to give them. They 
are obliged to work very hard, and 
sometimes their masters use them 
cruel I v, beat them, and starve them 
and kill them, for they have none 
to help them. Sometimes they are 
chained together and driven about 
like beasts. 
"Poor things! said Mary: but why 
do thev not leave their masters 
when they use them ill? The oth- 
er day Margaret left you, mother, 
because she was tired of living here 
though you never treated her un- 
kindly: I wonder that the slaves 
stay with their masters, who are 
not kind to them. 

"They do not like to be slaves, 
answered her mother, but thev are 
not permitted to leave their mas- 
ters whenever they wish. Servants 
are paid for working for their mas- 
ters and mistresses, and, if they do 
not like to stay, they may go and 
live somewhere else. But the poor 



HORRORS OF THE SLAVE-TRADE. 

Stephen Cliffe, M. D., a native or the U- 
nited States, but for some years a subject ot 
(he Brazilian Emperor, who was lately ex- 
amined Before the Bridish House of Com- 
mons, gave it as his decided opinion that the 
diminualion of the duty on slave-grown su- 
gar, by the act of 1846, had greatly increas- 
ed the cultivation of swgar in Brazil, and giv- 
en a powerful stimulas to the slave trade. 
Dr. Cliffe is the proprietor of certain diamond 
mines in Brazil, owns about an hundred slaves 
and is desirous of increasing his stock. He 
unblushingly advocated slavery and the sfceve 
trade, and admitted the horible cruelty prac- 
tised upon its hapless victims, while he ^ave 
in testimony, much valuable statistical infor- 
mation he "testified that of the 72,000 65,00- 
0 lived to be sold. \n a vessel belonging tr> 
"a friend of his," only 10 out of ISO lived! 
"When landed, " said he., "they looked hor- 
ribly." "Their systems suffer so much from 
the shock of corning over;" Continued he, 
"that many of them die. I have known thir- 
ty leave the coast, go twenty miles into the 
interior, and 15 have died; and I have known 
160 landed, and 84 of them have died before 
they got into the interior. They were in such 
a dilapidated condition, nature was complete- 
ly overcome by the passage." He twtiGed 
that on the slaves-hips the slaves are placed 
upon their sides parallel to- each other; that 
sometimes they arc jammed more compactly 
toother by the soilors jumping upon them; 
and that they try to keep themiothis-. posi- 
tion during the voyage, which lasts from 
twenty to ninety days. Some ofthe Ameri- 
can vessels, he said, were only mix feet be- 
tween decks* and that within this narrow 
space three tiers ot slaves were crowded. He 
had knows as rrany as 350 crammed into a 
ninety tons schooner! They suffer eat»m*ly 
for want t-f water, with which ifiey are sup- 
plied once a dgfj ftthe-voyagevis notte-fro- 



traded, "la a state en" inactivity," we use. 
lusown u ords, li y«u may exist, upon that, 
5«ir tweuir days, perhaps* as I l<now frcin 
rny own ospsrtOHce; but hot ~mu.cTi longer 
than twenty tiny?, because the system tails 
rapidly after lU>. tf w too lioribie' to des- 
cribe the want of water; no pesoa cap have 
any idaa of it wiihoot reeling it." This is 
* i?\^tl^ t iwl iTHg^rrI{r.s TfwjTT engaged 
in th ■ Stave ''.'ratio, v. ho approves of it, and 
■wh o tliscribo'l Urn terril th • su tiermgs to which 
the slaves are subjected, with but a solitary 
and slight o:<pr**tow of feelings and then be- 
muse h: Uad iiinisi-.il' experienced a part of 
the agony whifih. they are constrained to en- 
dure. This monster iniquity nnblushingly 
confess, .s &at, for the sake of gain he does 
not hesitate to inflict these sufferings upon 
his fd'ow-er- lAtures.-— Amia< Report of A. S 
j$'ecn : 4'- 

STOCKING A PLANTATION. 

A Washington correspondent of the States- 
man, under uVio of the '-'lii lilt., has the fol- 
lowing paragraph: 

One. itczn more for the benefit of the nbo- 
iitidn portion par excellence of the whig' par- 
ty! Ii is \irall knows dial Gen. Taylor has 
tfiAenuy puff hawid a largo p!aulalion in the 
fertile odttoD and sugar growing region on 
in.-' Rio (vraiide. Maj. Bliss the well known 
AiJ-de-Oamp of General Taylor, arrived at 
Washington, to attend to the political, official 
adt! pw.qD.iary interests cf h'^Chief, on the 
\Z<h of Jan. The uext.mornittg the Wash- 
ington papers contained the. following adver- 
tisenrfntj inserted in conspicuous places. 

This will J show what Mr. Aid-de-Carnp 
Bliss after: 

M $r6,ooo TO $1.0,000 for INVEST- 
MENT IX SLAVES.— Boys & girls would 
be preferedj but to avoid separation, families 
v.d;t be taken. Proposals are invited by let- 
ter, addressed to A. B. , {Washington City, 
postage paid, at anytime, between this an;! 
th* 1st ofjJuly." 

Tjsfc ro F:rm:x thousakb dollars; just 
the amount of the salary of a Maj. General 
during the Mexican war. The particular 
attention of the anti-slavery whips of Ohio is 
called to th'j above document, since in a few 
months they wiH^he called upon to cast their 
votes for the above candidate for the Presi- 
dency. 

- Yes, and \vc call the attention of the anti- 
slavery Whigs of all the other froo state also, 
to the 3bov o document. The whigs have 
Called themselves the "only true anti slavery 
party,"and are now shouting for Gen. Taylor 
r'>r president, who goes into the work, not 
of exteudihgjklave* territory only, but of slave- 
ry itself, and thatjin a way which shows that 
his soul is in both cnterpri7.es, and in a way 
that defies contradiction. The southern slave 
ho)(i:-r.4shout for Gen. Taylor/und their ohe- 
dientgslave.s-Jit the north respond with a most 
hearty subserviency. 



THE FREJ 

BOON TON , JULY 18, 184S. 



To Kill right, No do right, for its own sake, 
is BcnvotenA, is Religion, is Christianity. 



Pketty Goon. An'old lady living on one 
ot the Telegraph lines leading from this eitv 
observed some workmen digging a hole near 
her door. She enquired what it was 'for? 
"To put a post in for the Telegraph," was 
the rnsv.-or. Wild with ' fury and affright, 
sh:» incontinently seized her bonnet, and ran 
to her next neighbor with the news. — "What 
do you think!" ?he exclaimed, in breathless 
haste, "they're a-slttin up that cussed 5 para- 
graph, right agin my door, and now [ reckon 
o body can't spank a child, or scold a hand, 
or chat with a neighbor, but that plaguy 
tWngtflbe a blabbing all over creation! I 
won't stand it! PI! move right away, where 
there ain't none of them onnateral fixins!" — 
Louisville Examiner. 



A lunatic or.ee informed a physician who 
wai classing caws of insanity ,that he lost his 
H?irtca by watching a politician, whose course 
Was so crooked that it turned his brain, 



{<Cf-> As we fail somtimes to get a paper out 
ia the regular time it may be r.ecesary per- 
haps to stale that it takes twelve numbers 
to make a year. Wc trust however that, 
we shall soon have business so arranged 
as to be more regular. 

{s$=-Being destitute of proper help, we have 
been obliged again to delay the publication 
of the Feeman. 



TI*E PRESIDENCY. 

Again the two great parties have had con- 
ventions for the nomination of Presdential 
candidates, arid notwithstanding their former 
prutentions to anti-slavery they have both 
gone over to slaveholding inti rest, sou! and 
body. The democrates have nominated a 
Northern man with Sou: hern principles, and 
the whigs a Southern man, who, with lht 
cor.sentof the whig party determines not to lot 
his principles be known but whose whole life 
whose daily practice up to the present mo- 
ment has been devoted to the interest of 
slavery who has labored voluntarily, diligent 
ly and hx'-ssantly, for the perpetuation and 
extension of slavery, even with aggressive 
war and blood -Round auxiliaries to back it 

We once thought the whigs occupying a 
more elevated ^tand than the democrats, but 
wc are compelled to believe this is not the 
case now. Notwithstaning the slaveholders 
come forwoaid with the most objeetionab'e 
man thst could be thought of to northern 
freeman; one whose hands are fresh clipping 
with the blood of the innocent; who has nev- 
er done any thin? to give himself notoriety 
but to fight v:iih, and like blood hounds.and 
a ho has recently been in the nations's Cap- 
ital buying up negroes to stock a plantation 
on the Rio Grande that himself has wrested 
from the Mexicans with violence and blood; 
one who perseveres in the determination not 
to tell what his principles are; and the whigs 
of the North are down upon their marrow 
bones ready to "go it blind," the meanest, 
most contemptible, and disgusting of all 
slaves, doing voluntary homage to their .south- 
ern Masters, shouting to the top of their 
lungs the glorious & unspeakable goodn?s.'-, 
wisdom, and perfections of Gen. Taylor. 
The Newark Daily & Sentinel in this State, 
heretofore claiming support for their Candi- 
date, in order to save the nation by preserv- 
ing the Tarilf, is now exerting oil its powers 
to elevate p. man who is well known to be op- 
posed to" a Tariff for protection, and doing it 
with a zeal as unprincipled as it is devoted to 
the interests of the cotton-oeracy of the lord- 
ly despots of the south. And the whig par- 
ty of the north, 13 daily and hourly en- 
gaged in the most sickniug laudations of Gen. 
Taylor, in face of the most reasonable proba- 
bilities that their soul Item Masters do not in- 
tend to submit to the elevation of a northern 
man to the office of vice president. It is 
very evident that the whig slaveholders of 
the South are scheming for the elevation of 
Gen. Butler a southern man, a war man and 
a slavery extension man. It is very proba- 
ble that a game will he played by the South- 
ern whigs and democats^o elect two of the 
champions of the Mexican slavery-extension 
war, to the office of President &; vice-presi- 
dent, and the poor simple whigs, in hVir 
truckling servilty fo the south, will find 
themselves worse off than when they shout- 
ed "Tippecanoe &. Tyler too." 

But we are rejoiced to find that there are 
some honest whigs, too honest to swallow 
Geh. Taylor with all the glory of his bloody 
achievements, and are coming out. 
The Newark Daily Advertiser is so utterly 



destitute of honesty in its devotion to the the , 
Slave r.old ing interests <h at it makes, aed isj 
making, alomj; and loud effort to impress ill 
upon the people that the whigs are united in { 
oue unbroken phalanx in favor of Gen. Tay- 
lor while it knows that about fifty Editors' 
and great numbers ' of the most prominent I 
whigs, members of Congress and others have 
declared their uncompromising hostility to 1 
elevation of Gen. Taylor, and we trust will 
ere long see the mean and sickning servility j 
of that paper if they do not now. But we 
have no space for further ccmmei t. The 
whig and democratic parties are tumbling to 
pieces from their own perfect rottenness and 
corruption. 



LIBERTY flUUZ SO! 1 



U>.1W 



05> To all the Freemen of New Jersey, 
Take notice of the convention appointed for 
first of Angus: in Newark. The. call has 
been issued at the urgent solicitations of 
many individuals. Let no ons plead short- 
ness of Notice, bufall be active, and come up 
to the meeting with bis neighbor and save j 
the country from the pro-slavery misrule thai; 
the ensmies of freedom are striving to entail. I 
Vve have neither time nor spa -e to say any 
more. Is it necessary? Let ihat question be 
answered in the negative in the first of Aug. | 
by an overwhelming meeting at Newark. 



2NTIQN. 

The friends of uni- 
versal Liberty, Free 
Territory, and Free 
Soil, are hereby invi- 
ted to meet in conven- 
tion in the city Newark 
on the first day of Aug. 
next at 10 o'clock A.M! 
to discuss matters in 
general in relation to 
the Buffalo Convention 
for the 9th. of Aug., and 



GfefPS LANDMARK, is the title of a 

new parser published bj J. X. lagalls at .23-i 
Broadway N. Y; for one dollar a year, week- 
ly. It is an able defender of man's right to 
the soil, and is worthy a large circulation. 

{>TIIE LOOKING GLASS, started 
some lime f ir.ee in Newark, is now colled 
the REFORMER, and ispublishcd week- 
ly. It is en'arged and is now about the 
size of the -Freeman, just the right size for 
independence. Its prospects are very en- 
couraging and we wish it abundant success. 
But look here, friend Larison, is it right to 
give Patent Sarsaparilla two columns of a 
a small paper devoted to Reform? 

Free Labor Produce. — We are satisfied 
that the opponents of slavery have underval- 
ued the importance of abstaining from slave- 
grown produce as one of the means of des- 
troying slavery. When the peop'e of the 
free states all vote against slavery it will die 
but no more effectually than if they were a ; l 
to quit patronizing slaveholders by using the 
products of slave labor. 

The Non-Slave-holder, published by Geo. 
W. Taylor Coi ner of Fifth & Cherry Streets j 
Phil, iit one 'toiler per year is principally do- 1 
voted to this branch of nntis'avery effort and 
is well worthy of public patronage. 

Free Labor Goods- are kept for sale by G. 
\V\ Tavlcr corner of Fifth & cherry streets 
Pl.-ilndelphia, and by L. M. Hoog & George 
Wo.id 377 pearl Street N. Y. 

^PROGRESS.— Two hundred Capital 
crimes once disgraced the English Code. 
The number has been gradually reduced so 
that Hi.'rli Treason and Murder alone are 
reckoned as Capital offences. 

ftj>lt is stud that Gen. Houston, in order 
to secure his ro-elcction to the U. S. Senate, 
was obliged to emancipate his slaves. 



ety of a representation 
at that convention. Ail 
the friends of freedom 
and the inalienable 
rights of man isre earn- 
estly solicited to'nitend 
Meetings will be held 
in the afternoon and 
evening. 

In behalf of the Committee^.* '" * \ Wr 
J. GRIMES. 



{jej* Boon'tonian's axd others, • dont for- 
get the .dnli Cass & Taylor meeting op the 
2'Jth July. Free scope for discussion wiil 
be the order of thai meeting and. both sides 
can be heard. 



ANTI CASS & TAYLOR 
MEETING/ 

The friends of Liberty, opposed 
to the elevation of Generals Cass 
and Taylor to the office President, 
are invited to attend a meeting for 
the examination of their eltiims to 
the people's Votes, in the Congre- 
gational Church in Boonton, on 
Saturday evening, July 29 1848, 
at half past seven o'clock. Good 
speakers will be engaged. 

Man v. 



From the Washington Patriot. 

Gen Taylor in Ohio. 

The Cleveland Plaindc-aler of the 22J. 
states that ,, i he Hon Daniel R. Tildon od- 
dessed a Court house full of Whig bolters at" 
Ravenna tbe other day. He denounced and 
repudiated the nomination of Taylor, said 
he was a man of no principles, was an ignor- 
amus in everything but the art of fighting, 
and was put forward as a mere tool of the 
s'avcholders. He would not vote for him 
nor would he vote for any one who would," 

And the Lebanon Star, a whig paper 
published at the residence of Senator Cor- 
win, speaking in relation to Gen. Taylor, 
says: 

" On the -great question which have divi- 
ded the public mind for the hast twenty 
years, Gen. Taylor has njtrcr expiested an 
opinion! What doss the public know of him.' 
First — in the capacity of a Colonel in the 
bloodhound Florida war — chasing and mass- 
acrcing a poor miserable band of half starved 
and naked Seminole Indians — and secondly, 
asatool in the hands of an usurper, in break- 
ing the constitution of his country by com- 
mencing an unjust, unnecessary, and aggres- 
sive war against a weak, distracted, and de- 
fenceless neighbor And for these exploits 
--equal only in atrocity to those committed by 
the soldiers of Bonaparte and Nicholas — he 
is regarded as a fit successor of Washington. 
He. is emphatically a man of blood — an exe- 
cutioner in infayiwt wure — an ignoramus in 
Slate afffirs and fit on'y for the position he 
ocoupies. So far as principles are concerned, 
he has tv me and is incapable of expressing 
nuy. If elected President, his ignorance of 
civil nffairs would render him a complete 
tool in the hands of designing men; and we 
fear that many distinguished men we could 
name, who are supporting, are more intent 
on power and spoils, than the welfare and 
clorv of the coun'rv.*' 



PROGRESS. 
We hang men still, but in a sneaking, 
skulking, underhand way. The denizens of 
the Five Points, and Hook, are bereft of the 
spectale they once enjoyed, and would still 
delight in. The State hangs men as the 
fashionable hotel sells liquor— in the back 
room down stairs. She tells the rabble that 
criminals must be hung to keep them with- 
in bounds, and then hangs them so as to 
to leave the ignorant and stupid often to sur- 
mise that they have not been hung at all, but 
have been screened from justice by bribing 
the Sheriff and his half-dozon witnesses. She 
hangs now for spite and the pride of opinion 
— no longer for example. 

Courage, friends of Progress! the world is 



* 4 I found them in a very bad slate of chaos • take about it, he insolently replied "/ a'crirt 
and confusion. It appears the business c^\yon to know that the G. IV. P. ix rot to be 
this division has been illegally conducted all \ even svpposed capable of error.'''' And upon 
thro,' the deputy asserting he had the pre- j a lefusal to recognize the beer drinker as a 
rogative to admit whom he pleased, black or j member, the Charter of the Division was ta- 
xohite, old or young, and had actually iml\a- j i C(?u * aW ay by the deputy without anv farthei 
ted a colored man!" He farther states tha,t j cerPU10nv ai) ,i the division broken up. 
he took from the division its books, papers, , This js j. hou , tll( . real B t w acte» of the 
documents &c. On my return from N.Y. ; temporanoe an j republicanism that exists in 
I addressed a letter to Mr. Ward on the sub- | of ^ sod(Mios of this kind . It is just 
iect, and received from him the following m- | ... 

what we may expect from societies which o- 

j riginate in. the most soulless selfishness, as 

rJl secret societies do. , 
''My Dear George — lo-day s mail pri ngs j 

me your letter and F. A. Gray's at the same 

time. It appears from the reports of the different 

1. I did unite with a division ol the Sons i Q. F. lodges in Massachusetts, published in 



ter rogatories. 

"Cortlandvilte, March 20, 1R4S. 



Temperance at Cortland ville. I was not 



not what it has been. 'It does mote, though j expelled, because, just so soon as the divis- 
sometimes inconsistently, waywardly, sulk- | ion ascertaned, thro' a committee,, the char- 
ily. — The Hangman and the Slavetrader j acter of the organization in 'respect to blacks, 
shall not always be the scape-goats of others' it voted its charter back to the Grand Di vis- 
sins; the Bottle and the Gallows shall not al- ion. But, before our communication re*ch- 



the Boston 'Odd Fellow,' that withdrawing 
from the 'order' is getting quite fashionable; 
two hundred and eleven having withdrawn 
during the quarter ending Juue 30, 18-iti. 
Spirit of Liberty. 



wavs infest even the back basement and closo- 
screened jail-yard. 'Forward!' is the watch- 
word of Humanity.— Greehj. 



Secret Societies. 

"JV6 man Ugfateth a candle and 
putteth if under a bushel" 

' : Have no fellowship with the un- 
fruitful works of darkness." 



Hon. 0. D. Golden, of N. Y. onceVdis 
tinguished Free-Mason, says, "A combina- 
tion that secretly selects its favorites, secret- 
]y adopts its measures for their advancement 
and has its secret communications from one 
ebd of the Continent to the other, most be ad- 
verse to the wholesome action of a free repub- 
lican government. I repeat, that it is the du- 
ty of every one who values the equality, lib- 
erty and happiness of our republic, to endeav- 
or to destroy the influence of such associa- 
tions." 



ed the Grand Division, that body sent Cap 
tain Cady from New York on purpose to ex- j 
pel me. I may as well add here that a Mr. 
Lund, a lecturer, officially informed our di- j 
vision that colored persons <ould not be mem- 
bers of the Order. 

2 The rule prohibiting the membership of 
coiored persons is a resolution of the Grand 
Division. 

3 It is not me re usage, but a deliberately 
passed resolution. I know of no division 
that is unwilling to conform to it. 

4 Ours was the only division I know of 
that ever admitted a colored person. 

5 The colored people could not get a char- 
ter from the Grand Division. A division of 
Europeans — Scotchmen — withdrew from the 
Grand Division, and established an independ- 
ent division. 

Faithfully yours, &c, 

Samuel R. Ward. 

All I have asserted, and more, appears to 



Universal Opposiua. 

Under the above caption , tie (ditci tf tr.-3 
N. Y. Washing'onkn of May 13, demotes 
two columns of his paper t o aicvitw cf he 
last Frecn an, in which a malicious ar.d" : i jtc - 
ful effort 10 array ai i the eh n t r.ts « i .- 1 < e y. 
•Jgynst us, even those of the n.cs-t cjiUMtii 
sort, is too manifest to 1 e irn'rcftihtf d. We 
had thought of making a H ply o it, i ul up- 
on farther refkd'en, w e 1 sve <.< n,e to ;?e 
conclusion tl at it is h < t ! r'h ti e true r*'gnify> 
of a man to notice it. We do ii el that 'iss 
only defiling j u;e"s tell to ti ke 1 old < f ihe 
reptiles who giub under fittud," :rd there- 
fore leave the "w oifl )'" to'iur lo tl e ] i 'iit- 
able enjoy rncnt of nil ti e t < n.foit thai hi s 
own malicious falsification will furnish him. 
We can assure him that at hast a laige ma- 
jority of the Reehshitfs of Bornlm \ ho 
much sense and good j lineip'eto le ticLUd 
with his vituperative slang against us. 



Plainrield, July 1, 1848. 

Much esteemed friend, 

As you said you would 
expect to hear from me on my return from 
the city of Brotherly Love and mob Notori- 
ety, I intended you should hear before this 
time, and wish even at this late date I were 
able to give you something that would both 
interrest and instruct. 

1 attended the industrial Congress, it met 
in Wilber Fisk Hall, nearly on the same 
ground where Pennsylvania Hull stood, the 
very spot where I received my baptism by 
fire into the anti-slavery spirit, by which 1 



STAND BY YOUR C 01 C RS. 

The' bold, liberal, aid ircVj odt hi star/d 
which the "Barnburners* 1 1 a\e taken uport 
the "Wilmot Proviso"— in ksi'mul . v < u : 1 1 - 
ern aggression cvo\to a st v < i niu <; iinn the 
powerful party to which tbej were aHs t] d, 
merits the admiration of every friend < I pro- 
gress. Not that it thus msnfirtiy << i.t< i ti- 
against the extension o f slavery, lh«y have 
done no more than they should fo ; as men 
or more than many dotie ycsis pgo witVi 
much less inducement — but in doing 
this, they have made principle paramount t© 



was enabled to follow the example of that party, and have thus afforded another pe:f 
bright apostle of human Liberty, Thomas of the existence of elevated sentiment in the 



From the Pennsylvania Frenaan. 
THE SONS OF TEMPERANCE 
PRO-SLAVERY ORDER. 



Jefferson, to vow upon the altar, not of sect- 
or party, or any human organization, but up- 
on the altar of God, all the energies and ca- 
pacities that make up the immortal soul; 
wholly; practically, actively dedicated to re- 
be true. I was aware that the colored people j sist all and every form of tyranny over the 
of this country had been silly enough to send mind of man, nu matter what form it may as- 



to England for a charter to organize them- 
selves into "Odd Fellows" — having been re- 
fused a charter by their countrymen in the 
United States. But I was not aware, that, 
after having excluded colored persons from 
the privilege of membership in the subordi- 
nate divisions, the "Grand Division" had act- 
ually denied them the right of organizing 
divsions among themselves! Sla veholders 
oppressors of men, unjust and cruel, are re- 
ceived with open arms. But a man with 



The following extract of a letter, publish- 
ed in the Albany Patriot, and written by a 
former member of the order to which it re- 
fers, we have had on hand for some time, 
but the facts it relate are too important to pass! " saDle brow," however talented, just and 
unnoticed; we commend it especially to the I P uro m u *" e > is rejected! Verily one looks in 



attention of Anti Slavery Editors, and all ab- 
olitionists who are connected with the Sons 
of Temperance. 

Afier some unimportant preliminary re- 
marks, the writer says: 

Samuel R. Ward-— a well known and re- 
spected colored man— a minister of the gos- 
pel, and editor of the American & Examiner, 
at Cortlandville, united with the division in 
that village, and that division was broken up 
in consequence. Jt seems that the initiation 
of Mr. Ward was regarded as a shacking im- 
propriety on the part of the "Deputy " — a vi- 
olation of the rules of the order, and the 
Grand Division, or its proper officers, were 
immediately informed of the fact. Mr. Ken- 
nedy of New York, the "Grand Worthy 
Patriarch," in his last annual report to the 
Grand Division of the State of New York, 
says, in relation to this case— (the difficulty 
in District No. 55)— Cortland: "In conse- 
quence of the improper conduct of the 'Dep- 
uty' of that district, some of the divisions be- 
came involved in difficulty, of which I was 
promptly informed. I immediately suspen- 
ded the deputy of the district, and appointed 
K: G. W.-P. Cady a special deputy, with in- 
structions to proceed immediately to District 
No. 55." What the "improper conduct" 
was. of which the "deputy "was guilty, and 
which caused such serious "difficulty,', wilj 
appear -from the following extract, which I 
take from «D. G. W. P. Cady's" report after 
his return from the "seat of war!" He says: 



vain for asemblanee of Christianity here. • 
Alas for the poor colored man! He is ex- 
cluded from steamboat cabins and dining ta- 
llies — he is excluded from the schools and 



surne, whether it be the chattelizing God's 
image, or imbruting him in the labor market 
to bid down to starvation price; whether it be 
"robbing the poor because he is poor," l>v 
usury and wrong, called legal interest; or as- 
suming by the "Learned Professions," to 
to keep the mass unlearned; by leaving them 
no thinking to do, and consequently incapa- 
citated to think; in fine, whether by process 
of the mystic mazes of the Law, or the ca- 
daverous paths of physic, or wizard power of 
Theologic and Priestly domination, men are 
oppressed and tyrannized over. There is a 
war of resistance that is obedience to God. 

But to the congress. I took notes of the 
| speeches, intending them for the Freeman, 
I but 1 found they would be so voluminous I 



colleges— he is excluded from the churches, j thought you would not wish lo publish them 
unless he submits to the degradation of the i and 1 thought you would get all the proceed- 
infamous "negro p-w." lie may, however, | in S* from 0,h< ' r l Ji T f;1 ' s whicn wouU1 make »* 
if he can build his own church— his own j i' se ' PSS f°'* n,e lo trouble you with that which 
school; but the "Sons," professedly a benev- i wo ' lld *b bc a <»™gre attempt, h was Ie- 
olent in S titution,,vie)d to the wicked prejudice M«*d a glorious gathering, wish you could 
against color, and descend a step lower, not | havc b, ' ,M ' tllCi " L '- M !l collection of car- 
only refusing -him the "negro pew" in their '^t, ittdependenf, and fearless men I never 



nineteenth century. Manyrefoimeis me in 
extacies while beholding these t-igns of picg- 
ress in tha"Bai nbuiners," ard fi tl to n jo'< <u 
to know that they have taken the s4*f.oCt> 
the ladder of refpim, that they are n'incst 
tempted to hurl' themselves frcm their posit- 
ion upon the top round to the hot tern, fcr 
the. sake of being in the company of thite 
who have just emerged frcm heathen diiik- 
ness, and are almost fright* r.ed to find th«m- 
selves in possession of the "A'cw-JTa'/rt/i V./i 
at Slavery 1 '' doctrine, w hich the refoimers 
professfed years ago, and which tegejhej with 
" l\on-ezisttnce of Slavery'''' were seme of 
their primary lessons. — But in extending the 
hand of congratulation to those nun who 
have manifested a disposition to progress, we 
must remember that the little advance, they 
have made has not been wjllingh — lf,ey 
have been compelled to push their h« ads thus 
far out of conservative darkness, yes, com- 
pelledby the movements of the pre^n ssives, 
and if the progressives, would draw thtmetitl 
farther, they must still ber.r on, and m t ami 
about to meet them. The reloimeis sro 1 
destined to lead, aiid must reformer like le in 
advance of the age — they must look forward 
and carve their brilliant course in the future, 
regardless ofthe past, other than than to 
profit by the moral of its teachings. 



temperance church, but deny him the poor 
privilege of having one by himself! "0 tern- 
pora, O mores!" 

Ceo. W. Clark. 
Victor, March 29. 1848. 



The above shows that the Order of "Sons" 
is treacherous to Liberty and Equality, ami 
the following account of a division, in Pa. 
confirms both, and shows that it is treacher- 
ous to temperance also. 

The Conshohocken Division in or near 
Noristown in Penn., expelled a member for 
drinking beer. He. took a copy ofthe min- 
utes to the Grand Worthy Patriarch who 
empowered the G. S. without laying the 
subjectbefore the Grand Division, to interfere 
in the matter. He pronounced the proceed- 
ings null and void, and said the man was still 
a member, without giving any reasons for s" 
doing. . Upon being politely asked for the 
reasons, saynig there might be some mis- 



saw convened before. Usage and custom; 
superstition and prejudice, time honored and 
hoary, never so sacredly revered in the old 
by-going systems; had no power or influence 
over men who were consecrated to progress, 
and the "good time coming. " Their plat- 
form was for humanitv too, not a fraction ex- 
cepted. Women's rights were acknnwledged 
— nay, more, thny were not disputed, no 
"ifs" and "buts," no expatriations. Fully 
. and freely were the inalienable rights of hu- 
manity recegnized and bound firmly by the 
three-fold cord o»f Virtue, Liberty and Fra- 
ternity. Oh I cannot write you any thing of 
an idea. I c -uld tell you were I with you, 
but the mail comes in a few minutes and I 
must close to resume again soon. 

Yours truly,. 

J. L- Brothertdn. 



The reform party have increased very rap- 
pidly within the past two years, and their suc- 
cess can, alone be attributed to the fact that 
they propose measures, forming f:s they do 
the real motive of united action, must not hi* 
sacrificed to minor considerations — they 
must be kept in view as the» polar stur wbicfc 
guides our cause. — National Reformer. 



T3IK BlL<t«l»-E©i;E5 (CAKEUli \T1H.;. 

For the two inst presidential ieatnapiugns. 
Coonsfwere the very significant « toMetns of 
the. whigs. If they practice consistency it, 
the present campaign, we may expect scon 
to Se'e i cargo of Cuba Blofid liotmd* isnpor- 
tedfer their use. A display of tlie.-e Allies ( f 
Gen. Taylor, at their nu-ss meetings will li- 
very appropriate indeed. 



§5=Lahdj as well as Air, and water, ars 



The Industrial Congress in. Convention- 
lasc month nominated Gent Smith for Btes«- 



PO.ET.ttV. 



TRUTH AND FREEDOM. 
Mr w. d. gallaxcer. 

We is the Freeman whom thi Tuth makes free y 
A ad all are slaves besides . — Gowptn. 

Fen the Tavrs, Uier., let -js battle, 

Whatsoever :aw betide'.' 
Long the boast that we are Fiieemem. 

We have made and published Wide. 

He Who has the Truth, and keeps it, 
Keeps what not to him belongs, 

But perforins n sellish action, 
That his fellow-mortal wrongs. 

He who seeks the Truth and trembleg 

At the dangers he. must brave, 
Is not fit to be a Freeman — 

He, at best, is but a slave. 

H" who bears the Truth, and places 
It*- - high promptings under ban, 

Load may bust of all that's manly, j 
But can never be a Max. 

Friend, this simple lay who readest, 

Be not thou like either them — 
But to Truth »ive utmost Freedom, 

And the tide it raises, stem. 

Bold in speech, and bold in action, 

Be foever! Time will tes', 
Of the free soul'd and the slavish, 

Which fulfils life's mission best. 

Be thou like the noble Ancient — 
Scorn the threat that bids the fear. 

Speak! no matter what betide thee; 
Let :h sin strike, but make them hear! 

Be thou like the first Apostles- 
Be thou like heroic Paul; 

II ;t free thought seels expression, 
Speak it boldly! speak it all! 

Face thine enemies — accusers; 

Scorn the prison, rack, or rod: 
And, if thou hast Truth to utter, 

Speak.' and leave the rest to God. 



fe»THE WATER CURE JOURNAL 
and HERALD OF REFORMS —This is 
a monthly Journal of '52 pages, edited by 
Joel Shew M. D., at one dollar a year. It is 
devoted to the Water Cure and all that ap- 
pertains to health, contains much interrest- 
ing and useful matter, and should be read by 
every one who considers health of any val- 
ue and is ignorant of the true value of water. 
We do not believe that waterjjwill cure every 
thin<c, or that It should be used at the exclti- 
Monjall other things"as remedial agents; but 
we do believe that its usefulness is very Li I tie 
understood, and wish this Journal may have 
a large circulation. It is published by Fow- 
lers and Wells, 131 Nassau Street N. Y. 



^PHRENOLOGY-— Phrenology is the 
Science of mind, and is a most iuterresting 
and profitable study. It is an excellent cure 
for superstition and ignorance, and should be 
investigated by every well wisher of the hu- 
man race, Let all read the Phrenological 
Journal published monthly by Fowlers and 
Wells for one dollar a year, at 131 Nassau 
Street N. Y. 



PHRENOLOGICAL £ ALMANAC 
for 1849.— FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
Nassau Street, New York, have published 
and have for sale'at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1S49. Besides the 
Usual Calendar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U. S.,it contains a great amount of iuterrest- 
ing matter, with likenesses of various distin- 
guished individuals illustrating the impor- 
tance Phrenology and Physiology in their ap- 
plications to the various purposes of life. 

It is richly worth the price, and deserves a 
lur^ru circulation. 



IF \1R . 



"Town deserted ; burning village; 
Murder; rape; destruction; pillage; 
Man cempelledjnan's blood to shed ; 
Weeping ; wailing ; want of bread ; 
Commerce checked; grave citizens 
Armed with sword instead of pens ; 
Harvests trampled; homesteds burned ; 
This is war why iVt ot spurned. 



Loss or Life by War. — Lffe is man's chief 
earthly boon. It is essential to all his other 
Blessings; and without he can neither do, nor 
enjoy, nor beany thing. It is the means of all 
his acquisitions; it is the pivot of his destiny 
for two worlds, the seed-time of his whole 
immortal being, the period of his preparation 
for a blissful or miserable immortality! 

Such is life, the destruction of w hich is 
the grand aim of war. 

Do yon ask, now, for an epitome of the 
liavock war has made of human life? In the 
Russian campaign, there perished in less than 
six months nearly half a million of the French 
alone, and perhaps as many more of their 
enemies. During only twelve years of the 
recent wars of Europe, no less than 5,S00,0- 
00 Christian lives are supposed to have been 
lost. Even Jjie French admit, that the wars 
of Napoleon alone must have sacrifliced six 
millions; and if we reckon all the victims, 
both among the soldiers and the people, of 
the wars consequent on the French Revo- 
lirtiou, the sum total cannot be less than nine 
or ten millions! The Spaniards are said to 
have destroyed in forty (wo years more than 
12 millions of American Indians. The wars 
in the time of Sesostris cost 15,000,000 lives, 
those of Semaramis, Cyrus and Alexander, 10 
000,000each: those of Alexander's successors 
20,000,000. Grecian wars sacrifice 15,000, 
000 Jewish wars, 25,000,000; the wars of the 
12 Casars, 30,000,000 in all; the wars of the 
Romans before Julius Cajsar, 60,000, 000;the 
wui s of the Roman Empire, of the Saracens 
and Turks, 60,000,000 each; the wars of the 
Reformation, 30,000,000; those of the Mid- 
dle Ages, and the nine Crusades in two cen- 
turies 40.000,000 each; those of the Tartars, 
80,000,000; those of Africa, 100,000,000. 

Such estimates may well seem incredible; 
but we have taken them all from sources en- 
titled to credit. "If we take into considera- 
tion' says the learned Dr. Dick, "the num- 
ber not only of those who have perished 
through the natural consequence of war, more 
than fourteen thousand millions of human be- 
ings have been slaughtered in war since the 
begining of the world." Edmund Burke 
went still further, and reclame the sum total 
of its ravages from to be no les< than THtRI \ 
five THOUSAND millions! — Peace Tracts. 



INTEMPERANCE. 



Ignorance, vice, crime; domestic strife and 
discord; wretchedness and utter luin; murder, 
edath, and woes unutterable. 



The RumsBLLER Remembered. A rum- 
seller once visiting a victim of his murderous 
traffic on his death-bed, said to him, 'Do you 
remember me?' 'Yes,' said the dying man, 
with a startling emphasis, '1 do remember 
you, and I remember your shop, where 1 
formed the habit which has ruined me; and 
when I am dead my beggared widow and 
farthcrless children will remember you!' 

Rntnis one of the principal incentives to 
war, and isone of the strong supports of war. 
It is principally through its agency the for- 
eign slave trade is carried on. In nine cases 
out often duels are got up and carried through 
to their bloody consummation by means of 
rum. Without rum the bowie knife and the 
pistol would find little use. Murder, robbe- 
ry & theft would be rare things without it. 
Its agency is connected with all the ills of life 
How" desirable that it should be banished 
I from the earth. 



N M I'iXAI. ERA: 
WASHINGTON CITY, DIST. OF 
COLUMBIA. 

0. BAILEY, EDITOR; J. G. WHITTIEK, CORRES 
PONDING EDITOR. 



Judge Jay's Letter to Bishop Ives. This 
letter has been stereotyped and is for Sale 
by William Harned at the office of the A- 
merican & Foreign Anti-Slavery Society 61 
John Street New York. At $2,40 a hundred 
3 cents single. Judge Jays w ritings need 
no recommendation. 



L. P. CBLE PUBLISHER. 

The Leading purpose of this Journal is, the 
discussion of the quesiton of Slavery, and 
the advocacy of the main principles of the 
Liberty Party. Due attention is given to So- 
cial and Political Questions of general impor- 
tance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 
to be overlooked. 

It aims to preserve a fathfal record of im- 
portant events; of in ventions or discoveries 
affecting the progress of Society; ol publu 
documents of permanent value; and, during 
the sessions of Congress, to present such re 
ports of its procedings as will convey a cor 
rect idea not only of its actton, but of it: 
spirit and policy. The debatas on the ex 
citing subject* of Slavery and the Mexicai 
War, expected to arise in the next Congres: 
will occupy a large share of its columns. 

Arrangements have been made for extend 
ing and enriching its already valuble Depart- 
ment of Home and Foreign Correspondence 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of th< 
finest qualty, in the best style, at $2 a yea: 
payable in adcuncc. 

The generous spirit in which the Era has- 
been welcomed by the Public Press, am' 
the very liberal patronage it has receivec 
this the first year of its existence, encourag< 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub 
scription list. 

It is desirable that subscrptions be forward 
ha without delay, so that they may be enter- 
ed before the approaching Congress. 

Address L. P. NOBLE, 

Publisher of the Natoual Era Washington. 
D. C. 



^"There must besomefhing wrong."«£$ 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 

wrong," 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
iook on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist, 
mblished and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 

31 Nassau Street New York, which we 
•arnestly recommend to all those interrested 

and who should not be interrested,) iss the 
reservation of the teeth. It should be read 
>y every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY.— The office of this Society is at Nc 
Gl John street New York. Its field ot 
operations has hitherto been principally a 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mendi Mission, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to extend its field. It does not receive 
contributions from slaveholdrs, and is highly 
deserving of support from the friends ol 
Missions. 

Lew is Tappanof N. Y. is Treasurer. 



$eJ»PoSITtON AND DUTIES OF THE NoRTII 

with eg ard to Slavery. 

This is the the title, of a well written tract 
of 24 pages, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
published by Charles Whipple of New bury - 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some small points but as a whole it 
contains much valuable matter & we wish 
every man in the free States might read it. 
We are certain that no truly honest North- 
ern man could read it and feel that he had 
nothing to do with slavery. 

The facts set forth in this tract proves con- 
clusively that Slavery has had, and still does 
have' much to do with us. But let it be read 
it will speak for itself. It is for Sale by Win 
Harned 61 John Street N. Y. 



G$>YOUNG | A M ERICA. — Th is is the 
Organ of tho National Reformers, pudlished 
by George Evans, New York, 

It is opposed to land monopoly, advocates 
freedom of the public lands and other things 
in which the poor man should feel a deepin- 
terrst. It gives useful information on these 
and other subjects, which is not to be found 
in most other papers. 

It is published every Saturday at $1,50 a 
year for single copy, two or more copies for 
$1 each, and for a large numbei a still great- 
er discount. 



Stockings. 

Wc advise all those wanting a 
superior article in the stocking line 
and feeling a desire to encourage 
home manufacture, to call at the 
shop of John Jaques in Boonton, 
where they will not fail to be ac- 
commodated. 



(j(g»A Scripture Argument in favor of with- 
Irawing fellowship from churches and Ecle- 
iiasticiil Bodies tolerating Slaveholding a- 
nong them, by Rev. Silas McKeen of Brad- 
ord, Vermont; This is an excellent tract of 
ibout 40 pages. It is published by the A- 
nerican and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society 
ind for sale by Wm. Harned, 61 4 Johu Street 
N T ew York. 



{^CHEMISTRY, and its application to. 

Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
Professor LlEBlG, price 20 cents, publisha i 
■by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
ifork. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themseelv 

CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, $ 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHLRCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by t every friend'of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
^ale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuable light on the subject. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 

for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavrr)' Books for 
sale at this.ottice among whkh are the f»U 
lowing. 

Memoir of Lovejoy, 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

Slave's Friend 3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton oh the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mott's. Sketches, 



LIBERTY TRACTS— &r sale 

at this office, 

Slavery and the Slave trade at 

the Nation's Capital, 
Facts for the People. 
Catcehism oa the Mexican war. 



T" 


r 




1 










1 'j 






Truth invites full and free Discussion ; Error shrinks from all Investigation. 



Vol. 3 



Saturday, August 26,- 1848. 



No. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN 

WILL EE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor, 
Boonton, Moms County, New Jersey. 



TERMS: 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 
5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



From the Christian World. 
NARRATIVE OF A FUGITIVE. 

Mr. Editor: The words of the following 
narrative (except where quotation marks oc- 
cur) are my own ; hut the substance ef it 1 
recently had from the lips of an aged color- 



did. He (the Quaker) built for us a liltl u 
log-house, and each* spring saw that we 
were paid for our year's work. My hus- 
band received $30 a month and I $10. In 



maining child was about eight years old. — 
My treatment was not so kind as it was when 
I was a slave in Maryland, yet I was never 
severely whipped hut once. Wc were all 



a little more than two years, wc paid our i compelled to work very hard. At night, af 
Quaker friend the sum he had advanced for ler wor j C) we had togr j nc i our mttl - ta a >i t , !e 



tried and declared free in a crowded court 
house. Mr. Child v> as my counsel. 

While giving the above account the narra- 
tor was frequently .so agitated as hardly to bo 



our freedom, except $50, which he gener- 
ously made us a present of. We then earned 
money and bought us a house and furniture, 
&c. We lived about five or six milc4 from 



able to proceed. The memory of the .scenes 
which she had witnessed, and through which 
mill that would hold only about a quart. — she had passed, filled her breast with agony. 



We were obliged to take turns, and some- 
times before the last one had got his meal, 



the Quaker's. He usually came oflce a I th ° drivCr ' s wW » soundcd in the morniD 6 for 
month to see how we prospered. \ i us to " turn oul " to work a g a,n - 

Early one April, Waters went to the sca-J Tho ' J S h 1 Was not sevcrcl >' ,rcated m >' self ' 
board, and was absent several days. When] 1 have st!cn other slaves crueil >' punishtd. — 
he returned, he looked as if he had had a j \ h(lvu « Ben own son a11 over bruises - 1 
" drunken spree." He came to my husband °' lcc Ka ' lV tvvo '"'grot's chained and burnt 
and said, " Charles, the vessel has just come al '\ T > '"'cause they would not work, but 



kept in the woods and stole horses and rode 
them. The horn blew for us all to conic 
from work ; wc had to pile the wood and 



the account for publication. 



I want you to go with the team and 
bring up my goods." (Waters kept a store.) 
He gave my husband a letter to c;irry. 1 

was alarmed, and begged Charles not to go ; | witness the burning. An immense crowd of 
ed woman who was formerly a slave. As told him if he did, I should never see him I Mute men surrounded »s with fire-arms and 
1 would lose no opportunity of exposing the again. He, however, suspected no danger ; ! SWO rds to prevent any outbreak, 
iniquity of American Slavery, I send you he left me, and I have never seen him since. The very week before I left Louisiana I 

At dusk, the same day, I saw a cousin of saw a ' 0 man |iamed Be n, killed by a ma- 
mtne, named Stephen* who lived in my fam- „, , „•„ , . . ... •••».. 
, , 7 , , , 1 . ' . , , J . I son named Hinds, who had hired him of his 
ily, knocked down, bound, and thrown into a 

cart. Thought I, "my turn will come next." 
I fastened my door as well as I could, but ii 
was soon burst open with an axe, and nine 
men entered. They asked me in a rage why 
I had barred my door. I told them that I, 
had a right to ^ bar it, that I was in my own 
house. One man, named Jesse Cannon, with 
profane and opprobious language replied, 
" You have no right to anything, not even to 
yourself — you are my property." They 
bound me, broke open my chests, took sev- 
enty dollars in silver, which I had there, and 
divided it among themselves. They took 
my husband's fiddle, praised its tone, and 
then dashed it in pieces on the lloor. They 
found my free papers and burnt them. I 
had put my two oldest children in bed. — 
They hurried them out and threw them 
" like pork " into the cart. My infant, then 
about four months old, I carried on my arm, 
but was so bound that I could not nurse it. 
After we bad travelled several hours, our 
white keepers stopped at a tavern to refresh 
themselves, while we sat full two hours shiv- 
ering in the co'd. My child cried so much 
that the land! tchj remonstrated strongly with 

our kei perf , and al last prevailed on them to j to go, whether I desired to be free 

loose my 
child. 

We arrived at N^w Market, Md., the 
next forenoon. John Stevenson, a slave- 
dealer, was pointed out to me as triy master. 
I told him I was free. He replied, " Waters 
answered me ' doubtingly ' « hen 1 asked him 
if he had any niggers to sell. He said he 



I was born on the eastern shore of Mary 
land. Before I was twenty years old, I had 
several masters, none of whom treated me 
harshly. When I was about twenty, as near 
ly as [ can judge, I was sold with my two 
children to Samuel Lalferty, who owned my 
husband. Lallerty was dissipated, and spent 
nearly all his property. He would frequent- 
ly go to a neighboring town, to drink and 
gamble. On one of these occasions Mrs. 
Lafferty told my husband and me, " The 
traders will be here after you Saturday. If 
you want to get away from them you must 
'put off into the woods. I had rather the 
crows would pick your bones than see you 
in the hands of the dealers." We went off 
into the woods, in haste, in the " first fall 
month," dressed in light clothing, and taking 
hardly anything with us. A good old Qua- 
ker helped us to our retreat, which we were 
two days in reaching. I and my two chil- 
dren lay concealed part of the time in a hay 
.stack, while he and my husband went for- 
ward to find a place for us. We lived in a 
great s'vvamp, several miles from any house, 
till the next February. We lived entirely 
on acorns, except, that two or three times the 
Quaker brought us some sweet potatoes. — 
Our hoirie was under the roots of a large 
old oak tree that had been partly overturned 
by the wind. We dug the dirt from its roots, 
aud put saplings and leaves in its place. On 
the ground we strewed leaves, on which we 
slept. We built ne fire throughout the win- 
ter, lest the smoke should betray us. My 
boy was five years old, and my little girl 
nine months. There were a great many hogs 
in the swamp, but we had nothing to kill 
them with, or cook them with, even if we 
could have killed them. One night, my hus- 
band, hungry and dispirited and tired of liv- 
ing on acorns, went to our Quaker friend's 
Iidusc to get some tobacco and a pipe, to 
smoke and revive his spirits. Soon after he 
left, the hogs attacked me, and I was com- 
pelled to flee for my life, with my children, 
up the tree. The hogs worried me till 
nearly daylight. 

In the spring, the Quaker bought us 
f ' ruiwung " of Lafferty for $800, and im- 
mediately made out and filed in court free 
papers for us, trusting in our honor that we 
would work and pay him. In the spring he 
advised ws to let ourselves to Jesse Waters, 
("a good Methodist man," as our friend I was sent at once into the field to work, 
told us, a member of the church,) which wc i soon buried my youngest child. My re- 



master to wait on him, biinging bricks and 
mortar. Ben did not work fast erion<rh to 
suit Hinds, who called out in a rage and 
with an oath, " Why don't you bring me 
the mortar? If you don't bring it faster I'll 
beat you to death." He did kick and beat 
him, ami at last laid him dead at his feet with 
a stake, Ben offering no resistance. Ben 
was hauled off by a pair of oxen, a chain 
being fastened round his neck, and burned 
hastily in the bushes. 

Not long before my departure from Loui- 
siana, I hired my time of Thomas C , 

and lived with a James C , a New 

England men, whose parents resided in Con- 
necticut. James C- was about to 

travel North, and wished me to go with him 



She spoke with deep feeling of her .son, for 
whom she daily mourns, and whose situation 
she is ignorant of, not knowing whether he is 
dead or alive. 

I asked her, if now, aged, sick, and lonely 
as she was, she did not wish herself back in 
Slavery again. Although .she. knew that I 
was a friend, she answered sharply and al- 
most indignantly, " Don't ask me such a 
question again. If I supposed I should have 
such thoughts, I'd go and drown myself. " 

1 asked her if she would burn her Bible if 
she thought it taught that Slavaryswas right. 
She said "No," she shou'd bi lie.ve that the 
printer had put in v. hat didn't belong there. 

Reader, see, 1st. Tneevil and bitter nature 
of Slavery. Think of the frequent change 
of masters, the winter in the swamp, tho 
separation from husband, the kidnapping — ■ 
and all this in Maryland, where firavf.ry is 
comparatively light. What shall we think 
of tl o ;e other scenes, in Louisiana ? 

2('. What wc have to do with slavery. A 
New England man goes to Louisiana, keeps 
slaves, brings one North with him, offers a 
reward for her recapture. What business 
have Northern ministers to speak on Shive- 
ry ? Let them " mind their own business," 
and not "meddle with politics." 

3d. The overflowing philanthropy of these 
who, while such evils exist, can faintly say. 
" I am as much opposed to Slavery as any 
body," and proceed to denounce the fanat'- 
cal Abolitionists. 

4th. If it is not an outrage on reason 



and take care of his children. He told me gravely to debate the question, Whether 



it was a free country, and I could go away 
if I pleased when 1 got there, but the negroes 
were dreadfully treated* there ; the white 
men got them drunk and put them in jail, 
and sometimes cut them in pieces. One 

night, Thomas C came to me and 

" talked round" to find out whether I w anleil 



those are Christians who stapport a system 
necessarily attended with such inqujtv 't 

Reader, however great the obstacles to bo 
surmounted in the overthrow of Slavery, 
however exalted in public places and estima- 
tion of the Southern defenders and Northi rn 
abettors of this fiendish system, will you not 



He told resolve 1° denounce ami expose il without 



anus so that I could nurse my j me at last that I had better go ; said he, « If 

you, wish to slay there, you. can s'.ay, and 

James C will hitve to pay for yon, hut 

mind, never tell any body that I told noil so." 
I never could imagine why he was so desir- 
ous that I should be free, unless it was be- 
cause he didn't wish to have the trouble of 
takjng care of rlio for his nephew in Penn- 
hadn't, but there were two or three under I sylvai.ia. He induced my son, who was 
him that he conld do with pretty much as be now* of age, to come and persuade me to go 



had a mind to." 

In about a. fortnight we sailed for Balti- 
more. There were forty-two of us in the 
vessel. At Baltimore we were transferred 



North, i told my son it was hard fur mo to 
leave inm: He urged me to go, said he 
could get along well enough now ; " You 
are getting old, mother, they will whip 



to a large wagon. We crossed the Blue j and abuse yon— you had best take your lib- 
Ridge, and at last took a keel-boat on the erty." J finally concluded to go. 



Ohio River. On that river my infant, who 
had sickened and died, was buried at hi"-h- 



A\ e left Louisiana in February and spent 
the summer in the Northern States. We 



water mark, in a shallow grave, hastily dug. arrived in Connecticut in July. When 
We arrived at Port Gibson, in Louisiana, the-i James C was about to return in the 



last <lay of August, having been nearly five 
months on our way. Purchasers flocked 
round in abundance. I was bought by one 
John C . The same fall he transfer- 
rod me to his son, R. S. C- 



fall, I left him at Norwich. I hid myself in 
an ice-house near the hotel where I stayed — 
/ was hunted in every direction — hand-hills 

icere posted vp, offering $50 reward for my 
-, who re- ) capture. A pom- woman at last hid me in her 
moved to Pennsylvania, leaving me in the j house alter it had been twice searched by the 



care of his uncle, Thomas C 



officers of the laic ; the same night .she took 
me to the house of a lawyer, a Mr. Child, 

who advised me to surccfttter my-.-.-If. 1 waa 



fear <>r compromise? To doubt the 
triumph of freedom is Atheism. G6.d is 
mightier than all injustice. Courage, then. 
To the onset, and 

" Prone to the dust Oppression shafl bo 

hur'cd, . 
Her name, her nature withered from the 
world." 

Tju: I&rsfTMAN and tiik V^rniLcquiST, 
An Irishman, who had been drinking, hap- 
pened one night to lodge with a ventriloquist. 
Just as they were going to sleep, the voice of 
the ventriloquist was heard in the ball, in- 
cusing Patrick of breaking his pledge. Pa- 
trick rose in great wrath, taking his shiljeldli, 
land rushed to the door, to beat off seine 
| pudent rascal; hut no one was (here. Pa- 
trick now shook with fear. He crawled inlo 
bed, but could not sleep. " You broke your 
pledge," said the voice, in a distant part oi 
the room. "That's true as prac-hing," said 
Patrick. " Will you do so no more ?" 
said the vo'ce. "Never," said Patrick, 
" while the wor d turns round, 51 eoveringgjiia 
face with the blanket. The waUnhg was ef- 
fectual ; Patrick was made a thorough < to- 
talcr. 

Deem that day lost whoso setting ;mi 
Record's uo wujthv action, done, 



..'V »»v: 



lie Norwich Spectator. 
IB INEBRIATE; 



lie stood leaiiitig upon a bickcn gale in 
rftiff-ot taiwfttbl'e dwelling. His tatter- 
ed hat wils in his l and, and the cool breeze 
fij'l<«J tin. 1 iniitud locks which cov.-rid his 
,.,!,•<• nolle brow. His countenance was 
bloated and disfigured, L-nt in his eye there 
was an unwonted look — a mingled ex pres. 
niori of sadness ami regret. Perhaps be was 
listening to the h>W, tnel ii.Cholf voice of his 
patient wife, as she soothed the sick babe on 
her bosom ; or perchance he was gazing upon 
ih- sweet face of bis eldest daughter, as at 
tli.- opening window she plied her needle to 
i'tblaiii for her mother and the poor children 
:i scanty sustenance. Poor Mary! for her. 
self she cared n »t : young as she was, her 
spirit wa< already crushed by povertv, un- 
Jcindness and neglect. As the inebriate thus 
stood, bis eves wan-lered over the miserable 
Limitation before liiin. The windows were 
broken and the doors hingeloss ; scarce a ves- 
ii i' of comffort remained ; yet memory bore 
li'itn back l<» the days of his \outh, when it 
w.i; tha abo 'e of p ace and happiness. In 
j'a icy he saw again ihe old arm-chair where 
tail lis father, with the bible upon bis knee; 
mi I he s re ned to hear again the sweet notes 



ol the reformed man, her father, was indeed \ pression — wo don't have togulp doWna great 
a hippy one. } Plenty crowned his board, 1 cocked hat, feathers and all, a pair of epau- 
nhd heal h and joy beamed from the faces of letis a very bloody sword, and even a pair of 
his wife and children, where once squalid mis- j military spurs— all without a single principle 
ery alone could be traced. The pledge had : being announced." 
raised him from degradation, and restored 



bin 



< nce more lo peace and happiness. 



THE FREEMAN. 

BOONTON, JULY IS, 184S. 



To 'will right, to do right, for its ow n sake, 
is Bcnvolenco, is Religion, is Christianity. 



Well, the Buffalo Convention has been 



Since the above was in type, we are 
informed that Mr. Van Bui en has written a 
letter, accepting the nomination, and endors- 
ing the platform of principles adopted by the 
Buffalo Convention, in which, among other 
things, he says he would not veto a bill for 
the abolition of slavery in the District of 
Columbia. 



GEN. CASS. 

Although in some respects we consider 
j Gen. Cass much less of a man than Gen. 



been held, and w as perhaps the largest, most j Taylor, > et we believe he w ould be a.safer 
enthusiastic, and unanimous'of any ever held man fur liberty, if elected. He has been in 

in this country ; at any rate, we are safe 



s tying that no other Convention in America 
ever combined numbers, zealous enthusiasm, 
and unity of purpose, as much so as was ex- 
hibited on the '.Uh inst. at Buffalo. Never 
was there such a sundering of old party ties, 
and such a coming together of men of all 
creeds for the accomplishment of any good 
object. 



favor of the VVilmot Proviso, and has turned 
his coa 1 , and be may turn again and get 
right. He watches the popular current, and 
if that should run pretty strong for liberty, his 
meanness in that particular might be turned 
to good account. So the slaveholder views 
it. The Southern democrats have little or no 
confidence in Gen. Cass : they think him 



Secret Societies. 

"JVb man lighteth a candle and 
putteth it under a bushel." 

'•Have no fellowship with the un- 
fruitful works of darkness." 



| very unsafe. They have no confidence in 

of his mother, as she hiW her hand upon the | ' ™- ™««™ ado P teti at lhatCqnvcntion, L My mM that has ever talked or voted 
I of her darling boy, and prayed that God \ ™S h we ma «= »>™ exceptions j ; nst even ,„,. smallest t of the 

urn from evil, j . ' ' S a "° :uul ' iir ln :u]v:lncc °f any 

thing heretofore adopted by such Conven- 
tions ; inasmrich, as it makes FREEDOM 

the national platform, while slavery* merfely ° f U U " der Very sus P icions circumstances, 
sectional. It goes forf.ee territory, free soil ! such as make ll b * 110 means ccrta,n lhat he 
IV JO labor, and free men, and for the aboli- l™** " 0t d> ^ c a S ain and rp P el,t ° f his ser " 
ion of slavery in all territories where Con- villty t0 lhe institulions of ' the South 



claims of the South. He has once been op- 
posed to slavery extension, and has repented 



The 



■would bless him and preserve 
J.ot)-* v« ars had passed away, yet tears came 
In o ihe eves of 1 1 »e drunkard a- the recollec- 
tion of his mother's love. 

'Poor mother,' he muttered, ' ii is well 
lhat ihuU art sleeping in the grave; it would 
break toy heart to know that ihy son is a 

wreiched and dfgraded ; being— a miserable guess has jurisdiction, and in the District of j daveholding democrats fear, and have reason 
. ulcasl from society.* j Columbia. In the declaration that Congress 

I!,, mn^d slowly away. Deep within an has m rignl , () met1die Avjlh slav( , in the 
ining fores, wa. a dell where tl,- beams s we lhink thc Convention did wren*, 
ill i \<- s i o scarce ever perelra'ed. tail trees ... ■ o* i ... „ , 

'!,.T«n either side, iho<e branches, meet- VVe Me not P^ed to say that the Con- mocrats, and open opposition of others, to 
flic; a .,ove, formed a canopy of leaves, where | v, ' nl, °» su,Hlld have said it had such right, j Cass - He is not the man of their choice ; 
li.e hitdi built 'heir heats, anil poured forth I but we think it should not have said it had j ^ey dare not tru st him, and they do not 
happy s iin.s. Thither the drunkard bent his ; not the right. Some other things we would '• mean lo vole for him. 
s!i ps. h had been his favorite haunt in the i \ fc e t0 | iave f 
<rays of his childhood, and as he threw him 



1 to fear lhat, if elected, he might serve them 
even worse than Tyler did the Whigs. — 
Hence the indifference of some Southern de- 



self upon the greensward, the recollection ol 
j ast sci nes came crowding over his mind. — 
lie covered his face with his hands, and the 
prayer of the prod gal burst from his lips — 



0, God, receive a returning wanderer!' 



seen in that platform ; but all 
things considered, it is a mighty advance up- 
ward. The most ultra abolitionists mingled 
in the Convention with their former oppo- 
nents with mutual g ot) d feeling, and were 
treated with the most enthusiastic cheering, 
even while they exhibited their worst ultra- 
isra in commenting upon Southern aggres- 
sions upon Northern rights. More than this, 
Douglass and Bibb, both black men, who 
have escaped from bondage, and taken refuge 
among the free people of the North, were 
received upon the speakers' stage with the 
most enthusiastic applause. There seemed 
ill this Convention of from 40,000 to 75,000 
people but one feeling of determined hostili- 
ty to Southern aggression. We give the last 
n s oluiion : 

Resolved, That we inscribe on our banner 
FREE SOIL, FREE SPEECH, FREE 
The child hesitated: she thought she had I L :Vi°,*' and FRKK MEN > a,ul under it 
*a d too much ; perhaps her fa her would de- j ''o 1 ^ °», and light ever, until a trium- 
luand the m«n -y and spend it in the way in P ha,,t v > ctorv «WI reward our exertions. 
< hich all his earnings went. 

' You are afraid to toll me,' Anne, said he 



Suddenly a soft arm was thrown around his 
t eck, and a sweet voice murmur d — ' He w ill 
forgive you, father.' St irting to hisfeet,the 
inebriate saw standing before him his young- 
est daughter, a child of six years. 

'Whv are you here Anne?' be said, asha- 
tte'd that the innocent child should Love wit- 
nessed his grief. 

' I came to gather the lilies wliich grow 
upon the banks,' she replied ; 'see. 1 have got 
my basket full, and now I am going to sell 
them.' 

1 And what do you d> with the monev?' 
a .ki d the lather, as he turned his eyes to the 
I iskc, where among the broad leaves the 
.s.veet I, lies nf the valley were peeping forth 



Not so with Gen. Taylor. He owns from 
200 to 300 slaves, and says "he will never 
give them up." «{ His interests and feelings 
are all with the South." "He lives in the 
South, and makes 1200 bales of cotton on the 
bans?, of the Mississippi." " He loves the 
South and her cherished institutions," and 
and will be to them " as true as the magnet 
to the pole." There is a possibility that 
Gen. Cass, in his mean servility, might do 
something for liberty, but Gen. Taylor 
" never surrenders." 



father, kindly. ' Well, I do not blame you ; 
1 have no right to my children's confidence.' 

Tlie gentleness of his tone touched the 
heart of the affectionate child. She threw 
her arms around his neck, exclaiming — ' Yes, 
father. I will tell you. Mother buys m 
< ines for poor little Willi* We nave no 

• .the- way to g t it. Moth-rand Mary work 
all the tinv they can get lo buy bread.' 

A i ana: shot through the inebriate's heart. 
1 I have robbed them of th • comforts of life,' 
he exe'aimed; 'from this moment the liijuitl 
fire passes my lips no more.' 

Anne stool gaging al him with astonish- 
inen". She could scarcely comprehend her 
f nli'M 's words ; but she saw t lat some change 
bad taken place. She threw hack her gol- 
den ringlets, and raised her large hi >e eyes, 
with an earnest look to his face — ' Will you 

• ever drink any more rumr' she whispered, 
timidly. 

' A" "T ' Anne.' her father rep'i"d, solemn- 
ly. Joy dansed ia her eyes ' Then we will 
all be so happy,' she cried, ' an I mother 
wont WQqD any more ; o'i, father, what a 
happy home ours will he P Years passed 
iiwny. The words of linlo Ann-', lhe nVuifc" 
trn'a dgnghtar, had proved tru". The hotnts 



The Tobacco Almanac for 1849 has 
been received, from which we intended to 
make some extracts ; but some person has 
liked it so well as to carry it off, and we are 
deprived of the pleasure of doing s< . It is 
an excellent document, published by Fowler 
& Wells, 1C1 Nassau street. We intend to 
have a few of them for sa'e ; a'so a few of 
We do not like the nominee of the Con- ,hu Phreriolo S ica l Almanac for 1849, by the 
vention. We do think Mr. Van Buien same P uul 'shers. 



should take back some of the old things he 
has said and done. He owes it to those who 
have nominated htm and who desiie to give 
Slim their votes. We admit that he has been 
repudiated by the Sou'b on account of his 
anti-Texas letter, and we believe that his 
own interests are too much involved in the 
paestion of liberty to leave any ground to 
fear that he will be treacherous to the cause. 
When we feel that the speedy triumph of the 
princip'es of the Buffalo Convention, would 
be of such unspeakable good lo thousands of 
poor slaves, we feel that all dislike to persons 
should be thrown aside. If our wives and 
children, brothers, sisters, fathers and mothers 
were to-day on the plantations of the South, 
under the .slave-drivers' whip, we would feel 
it our duty to work with poor tools for their 
relief, if we could do no belter. But we 
shall see. Perhaps Martin may show the 
true spirit. With regard to his merits com- 
pnred with Taylor and Cass, the New Lis- 
bon. Aurora gives ftur views as follows: 
"In swallowing- Van — using Q common ex • 



$e>The Water Cure Almanac for 1849 
contains much interesting and valuable mat- 
ter. It is published and for sale by Fowler 
St Wells, 131 Nassau st. N. Y. 



MORRIS COUNTY AWAKE! 

A Free Soil &Free Labor Meeting has been 
held in Madison, this evening one is to be 
held in Geen Village, and on Monday even 
in<r one in Chatham. A Free Soil League is 
about to be formed in each of the latter two 
places one having already been formed in the 
former. Whippany is moving, and arrange- 
ments will soon be made for Boonton. We 
would not wonder if this new combination of 
the friends of humanity and justice swept 
through the country w ith a power never be- 
before felt. Crooked politicians will; have 
to 'make their ways straight' if they wish 
to keep in thc current of Liberty. The peo- 
ple have the helm, and have too long been 
deceived by thc false lights of policy to br 
tnis'ed now, 



But not only are secret societies danger- 
ous, but all societies whose effect is mysteri- 
ous ; the whole history of man is proof of 
this position ; in no age or country has there 
ever appeared a mysterious association, w hich 
did not, in time, become a public nuisance. 

[Professor Robinson. 
In general, every association which has 
mystery for its basis, or an oath of secrecy, 
is a league of robbers against society, a 
league divided in its very bosom into knavts 
and dupes ; or in other words, agents and in- 
struments. It is thus we ought to judge of 
those modern clubs, under the name of lllu- 
minists, Marlinists, Caliostronists, Free Ma- 
sons, and Mesmerites. These societies are 
thc follies and deceptions of the ancient Ca- 
balists, Magicians, Orphies, &c, who, says 
Plutarch, led into erro-.s of considerable mag- 
nitude, not only individuals, but kings and 
nations." [ Volney. 

— oo — 

$3f> The follow ing is from a Paris corres- 
pondent of the Newark Daily Advertiser of 
July 27, 1848 : 

A decree was presented to the chamber on 
Tuesday in reference to c'ubs" and secret so- 
cieties. The part relating to clubs was 
agreed to without much discussion, but that 
on secret societies was referred back again to 
the committee, who reported again yester- 
day, when, after a warm debate without any 
decision, it was a second time referred to the 
committee, who report again to-day, when 
the matter will probably be finally decided. 
The part of the decree on the clubs places 
them under great restrictions. The found- 
ers of a club must give notice at least two 
days before opening it ; in Paris, to the Per- 
fect of Police, in the departments, to the 
town Mayors, as to its name and objects, 
place of meeting, &c. It must then be en- 
tirely public, never Jieing able to resolve it- 
self into secret committee, and must set apart 
at least one-fourth of its place of meeting for 
the accommodation of such as are not mem- 
bers. A particular seat must be provided for 
an officer of the government, who is always 
to be present. Minutes must be kept of the 
proceedings, in wliich the public officer may 
demand the insertion of anything said, which 
he de.-i>es to take note of. Different clubs 
can have no correspondence or relation with 
each other. In all other proceedings they 
must keep within the hounds of law and or- 
der, under pain of being closed, or action 
against the individual offenders, the penalties 
of which are fines and imprisonment. 

As to secret societies, the decree at first 
presented placed them entirely at the will of 
the magistrates, whose authority was neces- 
sary to their formation, and' who could at 
any lime close them. As amended and pre- 
sented yesterday, secret societies were uncon- 
ditionally prohibited, while circles and unions 
for ordinary objects were allowed on notice 
of the formation being given to magistrates. 
The difficulty which chiefly gave rise to dis- 
cussion and a second reference to the com- 
mittee was to know the distinction between 
secret societies and circles or unions. There 
seemed to be no difference of opinion that 
societies whose objects and proceedings are 
concealed from the public mind should be 
without hesitation forbidden. In the debate 
Mr. Flocon, w ho said he had been a mem- 
ber of secret societies all his life and knew 
their tendencies, was warmly in favor of 
their suppression. He said under a free gov- 
ernment no honorable, honest set of men 
could wish to conceal themselves from the 
public eye. Under a despotic government 
the case was different. Secret societies had 
assisted poiverfully to overthrow thc monar- 
chy, but they could have no such object 
against a government of thc people. 

#r^> Any person that will read carefully 
and impartially the history of France, to say 
nothing of Poland, Mexico, and many other 
countries, will not need the aid of a "clair- 
voyant," lo sec the evil of secret societies ; 
they stand out in bold relief, as the scourge 
of humanity every where, but in no country, 
perhaps, have they had so much agency in 
the production of misery and bloodshed as in 
France. It is no wonder that people are 
endeavoring to suppress these engines of de- 
sola' ion by legis'ation. 



IS GEN. TAYLOR A WHIG ? 

The hard effort made by the Whigs to 
prooe that Gen. Taylor 13 a Whig, is suffi- 
cient proof in our estimation that he is no 
Whig. If he were a Whig, the question 
could be settled at once by an unequivocal 
declaration to that effect by the General him- 
self. But we have the best evidence that he 
is no Whig. 

1st. In his celebrated Signal letter, dated 
May ISth, 1847, he says : 

" In no case can I permit myself to be the 
candidate of any party, or yield myself to 
party schemes." 

2d. In answer to Dr. Delony, of La., who 
had solicited answers to these three ques- 
tions : first, the Mexican war, second, the 
National Bank, and third, the Tariff, Gen. 
Taylor says : 

" As regards the second and third enqui- 
ries, I am not prepared to answer them. 

" Should I ever occupy the White House, 
it must be by the spontaneous movement of 
the people, and by no act of mine ; so that 1 
could go into the office untramelled." 

3d. In his letter to Mr. Ingersoll he says : 

" If ever I occupy the White House, it 
must be by the spontaneous movement of 
the people — without any action of mine in 
relation to it — without pledges other than 1 
have previously stated, a strict adherence to 
the provisions of the Constitution — so that I 
could enter on the arduous duties appertain- 
ing to the said office untramelled." Also, 

" I cannot consent to be exclusively the 
candidate of a party." 

4th. In his letter to Peter Sken Smith, 
Jan. 30, 1848, he says : 

5' If they [the people] think fit to bring me 
before them for this office, through their 
Legislatures, mass meetings, or conventions, 
I cannot object to their designating these bod- 
ies as Whitf) Democratic, or Native. But in 
being thus nominated, I must insist on the 
condition, — and my position on this point is 
^immutable, — thai I shall not be brought for- 
u-ard by them as the candidate of their party, 
or considered as the exponent of their party 
^chemes. 

" 1 would accept such party nomination, 
provided it had been made entirely independ- 
ent oj parly considerations. " 

5th. In his Hendrickson letter, Feb. 6th, 
1 S IS, he agrees to " accept a nomination trom 

a National Convention, should such be held, 
for the Presidencv, FROM THE WHIGS 
OR DEMOCRATS, OR FROM BOTH, 
SHOULD THEY THINK PROPER TO 
TENDER IT, WITHOUT BEING 
PLEDGED, OR EVEN CONSIDERING 
MYSELF SO, TO ADVOCATE THE 
VIEWS OR OPINIONS OF EITHER." 

Cth. In his letter of March 25th, 1S48, in 
answer to the inquiries made by J. W. King, 
lie says : 

" I regret to inform you, in reply, that I 
deem it to he inconsistent with the position 
I have long since assumed in relation to such 
subjects, to answer definitely ) our inquiries." 

He does not answer them at all, and pleads 
want of time. 

7th. In his answer, April 20lh, 1848, to 
the editors of the Richmond Republican, 
who inquired of him, among other things, 
whether he would refuse the nomination of 
a Whig National Convention, he says : 

" If nominated by the Whig National Con- 
tion, I shall not refuse acceptance, provided 
I am left free vf all pledges, and perniitted to 
maintain the position of independence of all 
parties in which the people and my «rwn 
sense of duty have placed me ; otherv/ise, I 
shall refuse the nomination of any convention 
— cr party." 

8th. In his letter to Capt. Alison, April 
2~!d, 1848, he says : 

" I am not sufficiently familiar with all the 
minute details of legislation to give solemn 
pledges to exeitmy influence, if I were Pres- 
ident, to carry out this or defeat that mea- 
sure!. 

" 1 am a Whig, but not an ultra Whig." 

That is, most likely, just such a Whig as 
John Tyler was. 

9th. As late as July 24th, 1S48, in answer 
to a letter containing some inquiries in re- 
gard to Ms position, he says : 

" In reply, I have to say, that I am not a 

r,arl\r pamlimta nml if pli'Hcd. shall not he 



the President of a pajrly, but the President of 
the whole people." 

We think the pr<}of must be satisfactory 
that Gen. Taylor is 10 Whig, and will not 
feel bound to carry 4>ut the measures of the 
whig party ; and ill the whigs expect any 
thing of him in carrying out their former 
views of the Tariff", or any thing else thai 
they have considered essential to the well 
being of the coun ry, they will find them- 
selves as much taken in as they wtre by- 
John Tyler. Gen. Taylor is non-committal 
on all points except slavery, and those 
things which tend (o prop up the system. 
His whole history shows him devoted to the 
extension and perpetuity of slavery ; and the 
foregoing extracts from iiisown letters prove 
that he is the same an that subject that he al- 
ways has been. 



IS GEN. TAYLOR IN FAVOR OF 
LIBERTY ? 



GEN. CASS A LAND SPECULATOR. 

Strange accounts are going the rounds ol 
the papers in relation to Gen. Cass's specula- 
tions in the public lands while holding the 
office of Secretary of War. It is said that 
he was eno;a<red in a secret combination of 
individuals, who contributed to a common 
fund for the purpose of trading largely in 
these lands at the expense of the poor labor- 
er, and entrusted the management to him on 
account of the advantages which his office 
gave him to act in the matter, he having all 
the funds at his disposal. He is unequivo- 
cally charged with using it all for his own 
benefit, refusing to make any return to his 
associates in the business ; thus, besides the 
crime of using the power and advantages of 
his office in an extensive land monopoly, he 
is unequi vocallly charged with swindling 
those who reposed confidence in him out of 
large sums of money r that they had entrusted 
to his care, expecting it returned with a 
large increase. We do not know how much 
truth there is in these charges, but presume 
there is at least some foundation for them. 

{!t^ Since writing the above, we are in- 
formed that some of the friends of Gen. Cass 
have contradicted the story of his refusing to 
make any return of the money entrusted to 
his care, thus clearing him of the swindling 
part of the transaction, but leaving him guil- 
ty of using the advantages of his office in 
monopolizing the public lands at the expense 
of the poor emigrant. 



gqg* The Morris & Essex Ra il Road is 
now completed to Dover, and the cars run as 
follows : 

Leave New York for Dover — 

At 8 A. M. and 4 P. M. 
Leave Newark for Dover — 

At 8 3-4 A. M. and 4 3-4 P. M. 
Leave Dover for New York — 

At 6 1-4 A. M. and 1 1-2 P.M. 
Leave Morristown for New York — 

At 7 A. M. and 2 1-2 P. M. 
A stage runs twice a day from Boonton, 
meeting the cars at Denville both ways. 



{j<5* The advocates of the war on Mexico 
excuse and justify it because the Mexicans 
are such a savage, uncivilized people. Hear 
what Cassius M. Clay, who has ^pcl.t 
mouths in Mexico, says of them : 

" Mexico is in advance of us, or at least 
equal to, the slaveholding States of Ameri- 
ca, in the arts, agriculture, freedom, cm] 
rights, and polished manners." 



The Presidential chair has been occu- 
pied 4S years out of 60 by slaveholders, 
while the Free States have only had the of- 
fice 12 years, and now we can hurrah for 
Gen. Taylor for the next 4 years, with his 
300 slaves. Slaveholders stand in high esti- 
mation among the very democratic people of 
the United States. The leaven of Liberty, 
however, has en e ed a portion of the "De- 
mocracy," and the time is coming when to be 
Democrat and not a ' Liberty man,' will be 
considered a contradiction in terms. 



The members of the Whig party, what is 
left of it, are. occasionally endeavoring to 
prove that Gen.' Taylor is an Anti-Slavery 
man. A little testimony on this point may 
not be amiss. The Charleston News, re- 
porting a conversation with Gen. Taylor, 
says : 

" Gen. Taylor, in speaking freely of slave- 
ry, took the highest Southern ground, and 
said that he would never give up bis slaves ; 
and we know that Geu. Taylor ne\er sur- 
renders." 

The New Orleans Bee says : 
"One reason why the South should sus- 
tain Taylor for the Presidency with great 
unanimity is, his nomination affords a final 
and unlooked-for chance of electing a South- 
ern man to the office. 

" The importance of placing one at the 
head of the Government who, from birth, as- 
sociation, and connection, is identified with 
the South, and will fearlessly uphold her 
rights, and guard her from oppression, can- 
not fail to strike every mind. In this view 
his election becomes a matter of vital mo- 
ment to the slaveholding portion of the con- 
federacy.'' 

The following toast was given at a public 
dinner at Green Bay, by Gen. Taylor, in 
1817 : 

"NO MORE FIELD OFFICERS 
FROM NORTH OF THE POTOMAC." 

The Aberdeen Whig", (Alabama,) speak- 
ing of Gen. Taylor, says : 

" He is the only man south of Mason and 
Dixon's line who can be elected .' * * * 
We must elect a man for President who lives 
in our own sunny South, who is willing to 
peril all for the Constitution — who loves the 
South and HER CHERISHED INSTITU- 
TIONS, and yet will do ample justice to the 
North. 

"Such a man is Gen. Zacharv Taylor. 
He lives in the South, and makes 1200 bales 
of cotton on the banks of the Mississippi. 
HIS INTERESTS, HIS FEELINGS 
ARE ALL WITH US." 

In doing "ample justice to the North," it 
is no doubt expected that he will give a 
Southern interpretation to the Constitution, 
and see that the Abolitionists are hunir or 
imprisoned when they go south of Mason & 
Dixon's line. 

A Committee of the Mississippi Legisla- 
ture, appointed to wait upon Gen. Taylor? 
reported that he said : 

" The South should never agree to the 
conditions of the Wilmot Proviso." 

The Matagorda Tribune, a Southern pa- 
per, in speaking of the good results that will 
flow from Gen. Taylor's election, says : 

" If elected, our institution — we speak- 
out — SLAVERY — will fall under the pro- 
tection of his eagle eye and his giant arm." 

The Richmond Whig, commenting on 
some anti-slavery resolutions of a Whig Con- 
vention in Massachusetts, offered by Air. 
Palfrey, says : 

" Whenever our political associates at the 
North shall force upon us the alternative of 
choosing between the Whig principles on the 
one hand, and' Southern rights and institu- 
tions On the other, we cannot for a moment 
hesitate — and we do not err in saying that 
we speak the unanimous voice of the South- 
ern Whigs — in the course we shall pursue. 
There is no loco-foco in the land, however 
steeped in devotion to the doctrines of that 
party, to whom we would hesitate to give 
>our cordial support in preference to any whig 
who should come before us as the nominee 
for the Presidency or Vice Presidency with 
such a label upon his brow as- that embodied 
in Mr. Palfrey's resolutions." 

The Richmond Whig goes strong for Gen. 
Taylor, and so do all other Southern Whigs, 
as well as great numbers of Democrats- 
They know Gen Taylor's views too well on 
the subject to be deceived. The Natchez 
Courier, a Whig paper, says : 

" On this .ni'-s'i.in. 'ilhers 



ecting Southern infer' -t.-, we beli«a;.Ge^n 
Taylor' to I e cs rafc ?> ; i \ n.i ti in il.t &V«tifc 
Raised in the' S'outh, his interests are w (in - 
ly identified with Southern interests; his 
closest sympathies and earliest r< collections 
are all entv.iii'd around Southern institu- 
tions. His family, fortune, first und okles* 
friends — all bound up iu the South — are a'i 
sure guarantees that he will be true to the 
land that gave him birth — as true a* the 
magnet to the pole." 

$3r» When we take the foregoing ovi,\ ro- 
of Gen. Taylor's devotion to the slave ii ter- 
est in connection with the fact that his whole 
life has been spent in the service of slavery, 
and that he has not be< n content with mere- 
ly overseeing his own plantation, but ha-; 
thrown a'l his energies, as an officer of the 
government, into active operation to protect 
and extend ihe system, even at the expensi 
of every feeling of humanity, and ali .s,'nse of 
justice, we conclude that it must be the most 
inconceivable fraction of an anti-slavery man 
that can see in him even the most mil ute be- 
ginning of a disposition to recognize (lie doc- 
trines of the Declaration of Independence in 
relation to huma>i eights. We would as 
soon think of employing a v-;.olf to protect tin: 
lambs, as we would think of employing Gen- 
Taylor to protect the rights and lib' r r-s of 
men. The liberty that he has 
the liberty to bold slav es. 



htiftir is 



TEA DRINKING. 

About $150,000,000 h ue been spent ia 
the nation since 1S-21 for Tea, without count- 
ing time, cost of fuel, &c, employed in the 
preparation of it. But i&ese are not- the 
worst of the evils. 

Tea produces headache, wakefulness, rest- 
lessness, irregular appeti'e, less of appetitr, 
dyspepsia, tieinblji g, palpitation of the heart 
gnawing at the stomach, sallowness of the 
skin, weakness, sunken e\ es, co'dness of tL< 
feet and hand*, difficulty of breathing, sigh- 
ing, numbness, dimness of sight, giddiness, 
faintness, great nervousness, sick heao 
a^he, fluttering at the heart, a sensa.tioi 
in the scalp as though ants were creeping 
upon it, spasms, convulsions, insensibility , 
and brings on premature death. It injures 
the teeth, destroys the natural beauty and 
healthfulness of the skin, makes people irri- 
table, fretful and peevish, enkindles an appe- 
tite for other intoxicating substances, and 
causes many other evils. 

Who can question the immoral tendency 
of tea drinking ? Yet we say that no man 
who uses tobacco has a right to find fau] 
with his wife o tea drinking. 



BE KIND TO EACH OTHER. 

Be kind to^each other, 
The night 's coming on, 
When friend and when brother 
Perchance may be gone I 
Then, midst our dejection, 
How sweet to have earned . 
The llless 'd recollection . 
Of kindness returned ! 
When day hath departed, 
And memory keeps 
Her watch, broken-hearted, '. 
Where all she loved sleeps. 

Let falsehood assail not, 
Or envy disprove, 
Let trilles prevail not 
Against those that we love : . 
Or change with to-morrow, 
Should fortune take wiug, 
But the deeper the sorrow, 
The closer .still cling. 
Oh I be kind to each other; 
The night 's coming o->, 
When friend and when brother 
Perchance may be gone ! 



G5» FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE— 
The Liberty Almanac fo« 1^4:». -V 
friend of freedom should be wjrhoct :l : s i x 



\33oe Stoky. — Thc£ following anecdote j 
was told us by an eye-witness of the inci-i 
-di-w's, wmcfc occurred a few days ago in St. 
.\!bans, Vermont, in the presence of several j 
respectable citizens of (hat village, who are 
j..m!y t« vouch lot their literal truth. ' A 
; etltiemau goiug from his house to his ollice, | 
was psc-sirsg up the principal street of the vil- 
Ja^fi in company with hi:? dog, an animal oi 
t.::'.t*aal ijipj wfcen the dog, observing an af- 
trav in tao si feet between two other dogs of 
vi r»- unequal sizes, walked up to the comba- 
ari'l taking the part of the lesser, (a 

anger in tire village, by the by,) iinmed i- 
;: ;« !> drove the assailant from the ground. 
The gentleman passed on with his dog, and, 
having arrived at the door of his oifice, a dis- 
tance of some thirty or forty rods from the 
ailhiy, stood talking with several persons pre- 
sent,* v. hen the following scene occurred. 
The little dog came running up from the di- 
■ reeliorj oi the recent squabble, having a piece 
<,i meat in hi; mouih, which he laid down on 
ihe sidewalk directly before the nose of the 
|.i.rdo£#a* ally and deliverer. "Blucher" 
picked up the meat ami ate it with great de- 
liberation, tbfl bearer of the, collation standing 
by and wagging his tail with manifest de- 
light until the meal was over, when he 
wheeled about ami departed. The specta- 
tors having heard the story of the rescue, 
looked at each other with surprise, and each 
made his comment in his own way, the sub- 
stance of most of their speeches being, "that 
it wis certainly very remarkable for a dog." 
« Remarkable for a dog !" exclaimed the old- 
est of the bystanders, a rather cynical per- 
son, and a shrewd observer of men — and 
dogs ; " remarkable for a dog ! it is an in- 
stance of gratitude which would be very re- 
maikable for a man .'" 1 Going to the dogs,' 
is a phrase which, somehow or other, is used 
for all manner of ill-luck ; but if a man 
would sec some of the highest ' moral vir- 
tues ' — such as gratitude, for example — let 
him 'go to the dogs.' — Boston Post. 



Three Poets in a Puzzle. — I led the 
horse to the stable, when a fresh per- 
plexity arose. I removed the harness 
without difficulty, but, after many strenuous 
attempts, I could not remove the collar. In 
despair, 1 called for assistance, when aid soon 
lift jw near. Mr. Wordsworth brought his 
ingenuity into exercise, but, atter several un- 
successful efforts, he relinquished the achieve- 
ment as a thing altogether impracticable. 
Mr. Coleridge now tried his hand, but show- 
ed no more grooming skill than his predeces- 
sors; tor, after twisting the poor horse's neck 
aiijiom to strangulation, and the great dan- 
ger of his eyes, he gave up the useless task, 
pronouncing ihat the horse's head must have 
grown ( gout or dropsy) since the collar was 
put on ; "for," he said, "it was a downright 
impossibility for such a huge os frontis to 
pass through so narrow a collar." Just at 
tins instant a servant girl came near, and un- 
derstanding the cause of our conversation, 
" La, washer," said she, " you don't go about 
t'nu work in the right way. You should do 
like this," when turning the collar com- 
pletely Hp" side down, she slipped it off in a 
moment, to our great humiliation and won- 
derment ; each satisfied afresh that there 
were heights of knowledge in the world, to 
which we had not yt tattained. — Cottk'sLifc 
of Coleridge. 



Vital Statistics. — Dr. Emerson, of this 
city, has published in the "American Jour- 
nal of i'ic Medical Sciences'," a paper on 
the vital statistics of Philadelphia, embracing 
the decennial period fr/im 1S30 to 1840 : by 
which it appears that the sum total of deaths 
during that time was 50,000; that in this 
appalling list "cholera infantum" or "sum- 
mcr complaint" takes the precedence, its 
victims numbering 2,780 ; t'nat next comes 



NATIONAL ERA: 
WASHINGTON CITY, D1ST. OF 
COLUMBIA. 

g. Bailey, editor; j. o. whittjeb, corkes 

PONDING IDITOR. t 
L. P. NOBLE ?UBL1S1IEK. 



•Judge Jay's Letter to Bishop Ivss.This 
letter has been stereotyped and is for Sale 
by William Harncd at the ollice of the A- 
! mer'ican & Foreign Anti-Slavery Society (it 
! John Street New York. At $2,40 a hundred 
3 cents single. Judge Jays writings need 
no recommendation. 



The Leading purpose of this Journal is, the 
discussion of the quesiton of Slavery, and 
the advocacy of the main principles of the 
■scarlatina, the sum tola! of deaths from v\ inch Liberty Party. Due attention is given to So- 
is 2,00 i. About one-eighth of all the deaths I cial and Political Questions of general impor- 
.ua. „ i c tance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 

take place with children under one year of . , ' , , , l 

J to be overlooked. 



age. So that of the 50,000 deaths which 
occurred from 1S30 to 1840, 6,250 were of 
children in their first year. This is certainly 
an extraordinary proportion. — Pennsylcunia 
Freeman. 



Men who have nice scruples about reli- 
gion, have no business to be soldiers. 

[ Wellington. 

The worse the man the better the soldier. 

[Bonaparte. 

All wars are follies, very expensive and 
very mischievous ones. There never has 
been and never will be any such thing as a 
good war or a bad peace. Better for man- 
kind to settle their difficulties, even by the 
cast of a die, than by fighting and destroying 
each other. [1'rankVni. 

War makes villains. No man who makes 
war his profession can be otherwise than vi- 
cious. [Machiavel. 



fjcj- THE LIBERTY ALMANAC FOR 
1849 is just published by the American and 
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, and is for sale 
by Wm. Hamed, 61 John st. N. York, at 
$3 per 100 copies, 50 cents a dozen, 6 cents 
single. It contains 48 pages of closely print- 
ed matter, and is more valuable than any 
heretofore published. It is one that just 
suits the times, and should be in the posses- 
sion of every one that desires to have a ready 
access to important statistics on the Mexican 
war, slavery, elections, &c, with a great 
amount of useful information. No other 
document contains more valuable information 
for the same^money. 



No License Svs'it.m. — In 1882 licenses 
were withheld in three contiguous counties of 
Massachusetts — Plymouth, Bristol, and 
Bnrnstable, embracing a population of 120,- 
OtK). Three years afterwards, when the 
< nut*" met, after an average vacation of five 
months, there were 1)tft three indictments in 
•ihe whole 'of them, and each of them was 
■|<>v petit larceny, of less than £10 in amount ! 
The people of that district have not restored. 
<S>e license system, nor is it likely thoy ever 



{jt>THE WATER CURE JOURNAL 
and HERALD OF REFORMS.— This is 
a monthly Journal of 32 pages, edited by 
Joel Shew M. D., at one dollar a year. It is 
devoted to the Water Cure aud all that ap- 
pertains to health, contains much interest- 
ing and useful matter, and should be read by 
every one who considers health of any val- 
ue and is ignorant of the true value of water. 
We do not believe that water will cure ever) 
thing, or that it should be used fttjjthe exclu- 
sion all other.things as remedial agents; but 
we do believe that its usefulness is very little 
understood, and wish this Journal may have 
a large circulation. It is published by Fow- 
lers and Wells, 131 Nassau Street N. Y. 



^PIIRENOLOG V— Phrenology is the 
Science of mind, and is a most] iiilerresting 
and profitable study. It is an excellent cue 
for superstition and ignorance, and should be 
investigated by every well wisher of the hu- 
man race. Let all read the Phrenological 
Journal published monthly by Fowlers and 
Wells for one dollar a year, at 131 Nassau 
Street N. Y. 



<&5> PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
for 1849. — FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
Nassau Street, New York, have published 
and have for sale at their office the Phreno- 
logical Almanac for 1849. Besides the 
usual Calandar adapted to all latitudes in the 
U. S., it contains a great amount of i nterrest- 
ing matter, with likenesses of various distin- 
guished individuals illustrating the impor- 
tance/Phrenology and Physiology in their ap- 
plications to the various purposes of life. 

It is richly worth the price, and deserve* 
«i five eirmlptim. 



It aims to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in ventions or discoveries 
affecting the progress of Society; of public 
documents of permanent value; and, during 
the sessions of Congress, to present such re- 
ports of its procedings £s will convey a cor- 
rect idea not only of its actton, hut of its 
spirit and policy. The debatas on the ex- 
citing subject* of Slavery and the Mexican 
War, expected to arise in the next Congress 
will occupy a large share ofits columns. 

Arrangements have been made for extend- 
ing and enriching its already valuble Depart- 
ment of Home and Foreign Correspondence. 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of the 
finest cpialty, in the best style, at $2 a year 
payable in advance. 

The genorous spirit in which the Era has 
li^en welcomed by the Publtc Press, and 
the very liberal patronage it has received 



{jt^»" There must besomcthing wrong. 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human, teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the finding out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we have laying on our table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist, 
published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, which we 
earnestly recommend to all those interested 
(and who should not be interrested,) in the 
preservation of the teeth. It should be read 
by every body, particularly the young. 
Price twelve and a half cents. 



fie>A Scripture Argument i n favor of with- 
drawing fellowship from churches and Eccle- 
siastical Bodies tolerating Slaveholding a- 
mong them, by Rev. Silas McKecn of Brad- 



ford, Vermont; This is an excellent tract of 
this the first year of its existence, entourage { about 40 pages. It is published by the A- 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub- merican and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society 



scription list. 

It is desirable that subscrptions be forward- 
ed without delay, so that they may be enter- 
ed before the approaching Congress. 

Address L. P. NOBLE, 

Publisher of the Natoual Era Washington, 
D. C. 



AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY.— The office of this Society is at No 
61 John street New York. Its field of 
operations has hitherto been principally a- 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mendi Mission, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to extend its field. It does not receive 
contributions from slaveholdrs, and is highly 
deserving of support from the friends of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappan of N. Y. is Treasurer. 



{^Position and duties of the North 
with eg a rd to slavery. 

This is the the title of a well written tract 
of 24 pages, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
published by Charles Whipple of Newbury- 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some small points but as a whole it 
contains much valuable matter ic we wish 
every man in the free States might read it. 
We are certain that no truly honest North- 
ern man could read it and feel that he had 
lothing to do with slavery. 

The facts set forth in this tract proves con- 
clusively that Slavery has had, and still does 
have much to do with us. But let it be read 
it will speak for its< |f. JtisforSalc by Win 
I lamed 61 John Street N. Y. 



and for sale by Wm. Hamed, 61iJohn Street 
New York. 



{^CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
Professor L1EBIG, price 20 cent*, published 
by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themseelv 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, $ 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
become acquainted w ith the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuable light on the subject. 

CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 

for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUN I S H M EN T. — ArgumV nt 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York Slate Society , for sale at this Ollice. 



(jr^-YOUNG AMERICA.— This is the 
Organ of the National Reformers, published 
by George Evans, New York, 

It is opposed to land monopoly, advocates 
freedom of the public lands and other things 
in which the poor man should feel a deepin- 
terest. It gives useful information on these 
and other subjects, which is not to be found 
in most other papers. 

It is published every Saturday at $1,50 a 
year for single copy, two or more copies for 
$1 each, and for a large number a still great- 
er discount. 



Stockings, 

We advise all those wanting a 
superior article in the stocking line 
and feeling r desire to encourage 
home manufacture, to call at the 
shop of John .Taqucs in Boonton, 
where they will not fail to be ac 
crornnioria I ed, 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavery Books toi 
sale at this office, among which are the fol- 
lowing : 

Memoir of Lovejoy, 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

Slave's Friend 3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglass, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
Pourne's Picture of Slavery, 
Mott's Sketches. 



LIBERTY TRACTS— for sale 

at this oliicc, 

Slavery and the Slave trade at 

the Nation's Capital, 
Facta for the People, 

CatThisni on iln* Mexican war. 



THE NEW JERSEY F 




Truth invites full and frpe Discussion ; Error shrinks from all Investigation. 



Vol. 3. 



Wednsday, October, 25th. 1848. 



No.9. 



THE NEW JIIRSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BV 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 



TERMS: 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or fo 
12 numbers 
5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 



► 



From The Pensylvania Freeman 
THE WAY TO IMMORTALITY. 

There is certainly i o more summary oi 
certain way of rising into inimortalit- — tern 
porarilyAi least — than that of being made 
candidate by a great party for the Presiden 
cy. Three years ago Zacharv Taylor was- 
nobody; to-day he is altogether the greatest 
man of his ,ige, and among the greatest ot 
any age. As a G neral, he ranks wuh Al- 
exander, Napoleon and Washington; as a 
writer, the auther of Junius might have taken 
lessons from him; and as for Christianity, he 
h a very sain . It is in vain that facts are 
alleged by any one in opp..sitio i to this — So 
much the worse for the facts,"as the obstfn- 
ate th' orst said when somh.dy intimated tha 
those stubborn things were against him. And 
so virtually say the ten thousand and one 
clamorous expectaufs of office from Gen. 
Tayloi's eiecion. It is in vai<> thatany one 
urges that a triumph over a handful of S' m- 
inole Indians, rosting ysars of time, forty 
millions of d.l'ars, and the lives of many val- 
uable men and dojs, is no great proof of Gen- 
eralship; or that a few victories over the un- 
disciplined, h 'lf-fed, half-clad, unaccoutred 
Indians of Mexico; is i ot a much greater 
proof. It is still insisted that Gen. Taylor 
is one of the greatest military chiefs th:.t hav 
lived since Hie days of Alexander. 

Equally vain is it in regard to his literary 
claims to adduce his bungling letter to Gen. 
era' Butler, of Louisiana, his not much bet- 
ter one — even after it « as errree'ed — to hit, 
friend Gen. Gains, and the miserable 'umble 
he lately wrote to Joseph R. Ingers 1, of 
this city. Still it is averred, and by s mie 
believed, that he is an " aMe and perpic u ius 
writer;" and his dispaches to the War De- 
partment — which he never wrote — are ad- 
duced to prove it. 

As for is Christiani y, the fact that he 
owns, buys an! sells slaves, that he is 
cimsoned with the blood of a war waged 
for the propagation of slavery — tlvin he ani- 
mates his men to battls by calling on them 
to give the Mexicans "hell," weighs jus - 
nothing at all; for has he not been chosen an 
honorary member of the Kentucky Method- 
ist Missionary Society? Is it not faid that 
he Sometimes exhorts at class meetings? And 
has he not the reputation of bein-r a warm 
friend of the Christian Sabbath * ? What 
more then is needed to prove him a devou 
man and mo-t excellent Christian? 

Thus — no matter how much the facts suf- 
fer by i' — is the title of Ge». Taylor to the 
first rank in Generdship, liteiary acquire 
metits and piety estal I ah- d— and thousands 
of jiood sort of people are weak enough to be 
satisfied by the evtdence. 

If Gen Taylor had happened to have been 
chosen the candidate of the opposite party, as 



vas at one time not unlikely to be the case, 
he vety men who now g orify and canon- 
ze htm, would have proved by arguments 
en limes as strong as those to which thev art 
o# ablig d to resort, that he was ignorant 
>f some of 'he most important principles Yif 
nilitary science, and indebted f> r his victories 
o the weakness of his enemy; that in stat s- 
nanshphe was an ignoramus; in literature 
tot even a tyro;and in mo.als but little better 
.han a devil incar 'ate, 

Such, we have no doubt, woul.i have been- 
he assertions of the leaders, and the faith of 
che followers of the Whig party, if accide- 1 
'iad not made Gcderal. Taylor their own in- 
stead ol their opponents' candidate. 

Have not the people intelligence enough to 
•;ee through all this? 

* How many battles has he fought with the 
Indians and M< xicans on the Sabbath? 



What Next. 

The Whigs arc at their old I ricks 
again, and by ail sorts of means ex- 
cept honest ones, endeavoring to 
make out Gen. Taylor exactly the 
reverse of \\ hat he is Among oili 
er things, they are bare-faced en- 
ough try to make us believe that 
he is an AntiSlavery man having 
never obtained a slave by purch- 
ase. 

The following which we copy 
fro. i : the National Era, is certainly 
very conclusive on that point. 

Colonel Balte Peyton, the great Taylor 
leader in Louisiana, in the Louisiana Flori- 
dian of September 2d, published at Clinton, 
Louisiana, 75 miles from General Taylor's 
residence, is thus reported: 

"General Tay'or das recently invested one 
hundred thousand dollars innegroes, a"d there- 
fore cannot be in favor of the Wilmou Pro 
viso." 

The sujoined document from the Ohio 
Standard, published at Columbus, give the 
details of this investment. Thev appeared 
a mouth or two ago ; but fearing there might 
be some mistake about them, we thought it 
better to postpone any notice of them. As 
they have since been extensivly published, 
and their correctness has not been question- 
ed we now present the esser.'ial portions. 
They are furnished in a li tter from a New 
Orleans correspondent to the Ohio Standard: 
"New Orleans, August, 1848. 

"Dear Sir: I herewith transmit \ou a copy 
of the Deed of Sale from John Hagard, Senio' 
to Gen. Taylor, of a plantation. horses, slaves 
&c. 

******* 
"Since Gen. TaUor's return from Mexico, 
he has also purchased slaves. In May las 
he purchas' d, in the name of his sc, Rich- 
ardTaylor, f >ur slaves of W. W. VVi liams 
On the 6th. of June last he purchased of B 
M. Campbell two slaves, for the sum of l,50t 
He inspected the negroes, and examined them 
to see if th-y were sound; gave his draft on 
the Canal Bank of this city." * * * * 

DEED OF SALE. 
John Hagard, Sr. 1 C Received foi 

to > Deed. ? Record 18th. 

Zachariah Taylor. > ( Feb., 1844. 

This Indiontdre, made this twentv-firsi 
day of April, eighteen hundred and forty-two 
between John H gard, Sr. of the city oi New 
Orleans, State of Louisiana, of one part, and 
ZachariaWTaylor, ot the other, witn sses, 
that the said John Hagard, Sr., for and in 



consideration of the sum of ninety five 'hous 
and dollars to him in ha-nd paid and securei 
:o be paid, as hereinaf er stated, by the sail' 
Z chariah Taylor, at hand b fore the seal- 
ing and delivering of these pr sents, has thi.- 
day bargained, sold, delivered, conveyed, am' 
j. nf rtred, and bi these presents does bar- 
gain, sell, deliver, aiid confirm, unto the sail. 
Zachariah Taylor, his heirs and as-iyns, for 
ever, .-ill the plantation and tract i>fland. * 

#" * * ** * * 

Also, all the following slave*: N< Ison 
Milley, Peggv, Pddea, Mason, Willie, Zach- 
i 1, Caroline, Lucinda, Randall, Wirma, Car- 
*on, Little Ann, Witina, Jan , Tin, Sally. 
Gracia, Big Jane, Louisa, Maria, Chares 
Barnard, Mira, Sally, Carson, Pau', Sanford. 
Mansfield, Harry Oden, Ham, Horley, Car- 
ter, Henrietta, Ben, Charlotte, Wood, Dick 
Henrietta, Clarissa, Ben, Anth ny, Ji.cob. 
Hamby, Jim, Gabri' 1, Emeline, Armste; d, 
George, Wilson, Cherry, Peggy, Wallace, 
Jane, Wallace,. Bardett, Letitia, BarKaia. 
viatildia, Lucy, John, Sarah, Big Ann, Allen. 
Tom, Gorge, John, Dick, Fielding, Ntflsoii-. 
r lsom, W.nna, Shedod, Lidney, Little Dher- 
ry, Puck, Sam; Hannah or Anna, Mary, El- 
len, Henrie ta, and two sma'l children. Ai- 
s all the iiorses, mules, cattle, hogs, farm- 
ng u ensils, an/1 too's. now on said planta- 
tion — together with all and singular the 



inent men in the country have been appr s. I 
of the f icts in the case, become satisfied that 
in all material points they are correct. Bu'. 
■strange to sty these very men, instead of us- 
ing their influence to stay jhe progress of this 
coarse of things, are rather justifying and ex- 
cusing the authors of the outrages said to 
iiave been committed upon innocent person's. 
Mr Calhoun, an eminent statesman of the 
south acknowledges thai the "institution"' is 
iabl<- to the charges brought against it, and 
oes into an argument to showe that those 
having control af matttis there have a per- 
fect t ight to do as they please with the mtm- 
bers of the "institution". Mr Webster ?.- 
nother eminent and much distinguished 
state.* man, representing the ancient state of 
Massachusetts in the National councils, w e 
are surprised and pained to hear, alleges that 
he knew of these things years and years ago; 
and yet has failed to bring the subject prom- 
inently before the American people- He even 
g<;es so far as to say (so we are told by these 
ab lilionistj) that discussion will do no good, 
and will do much harm. We are told that 
in his last speech, Mr Webster said the "in- 
hered laments', awart^n«s7piiv^«, al^rf 8 *** 1 *"" <* la,e > ta,s vct >- 



dvan'age&r-u-Hto he said land and and slaves 
belonging or appertaining. To have and to 
ho'd the sai I pi m ation an I tract of Innd and 
slaves, and other property above described, 
unto the said Zachariah Taylor, his heirs and 
assigns, forever, and lu his and their onlv prop- 
er- use, benefits and behoof, for ever." 

The r- st of the deed of sale is in the usu. 
a 1 foun. closing as follows: 

"l i testimony whereof, the said John Hag- 
ard, Sr-, has hereunto set his hand and seal, 
th<' day ani year first above written. 
State of Mississippi, 
Jefferson county, 
I, Edwin McKey, Cl^tk of the Probate 
Court in said county, do hereby certify tha 1 
the within and foregoing instrument of wti- 
ting is a true and pet feet copy, ta';en from t e 
records, as recorded in my office in Book E 
of Deed.-, &c, pages 220, 221, 222. 
r o -i Given under my hand and seal of 
|_oeal. j office ^ tnis 24th. rfav of July, A. D. 
1848. 

[Signed] Edwin McKey, Clerk. 



For the Freeman. 
ST.1JRTJLI.YG IJVTEL.I.IGEJVCE! 

It is very commonly reported that quite < 
number of our citizens, formerly resident it 
• he southern States of the Union, have gon 
to Canada Many more contemplate goiiif. 
thither during the course of this and tin 
coming years. The reasons given for thi; 
course are certainly singular. Tliey alleg' 
that they have been under the charge of at 
"Institution," and that th«se having the e n 
trol of rnatu rs in the "Institution" treat then 
very har-hly, and deprive them of many o: 
their inherent and natural rights. Ai dthe> 
allege, also, that if one succeeds i-i freein: 
himself from this "Institution," he is legard 
d by h's neighbors as possessed of none o 
he rights and privileges of fr- emen. Unde; 
..hese circumstances, great numbers hav< 
_;one to C .nada, where, it iss <id, much sym 
pathy and consideration is shown to the un 
fortunates. That such a state of things coulc 
xist in this countrv is hardly credible. I 
is rath*er questionable. It coins ficm a das.- 
commonly regarded as fanatics and outcasts 
generally known as Ab--lilionists. 
POSTSCRIPT- Since writing the adove w > 
are further informed, throngh tke same ques 
tiottajle authority, that n aiy ef U osttm 



det fi lly in power . if these things are true 
we ha dly know what is to become of us. 
We certainly shall lose, all confidence in our 
statesmen, when we find them encouraging, 
a.id justifying such wickedness. 

STILL LATER.— Just as I was coming 
to a close, I was informed that the American 
Church, at least a great part of it, had been 
apprised of the existence of the "Institution" 
and that many of its managers were in com- 
munion « ith the church; and further, tlit.: 
some oi the members of the "institution,' 1 
who had suffered most, 9 were also members 
of the church. Instead of denying the e>_ 
istence of the evi's- charged, the Church seem- 
ed either inclined to pass them over, as thev 
f ared the excitement that would grow o\ ! . 
nf investign-ion would dis4urb the bsamony 
of the church and create a great disturbance 
in the "Institution". One person supposed ic , 
be a professor in ihe "Institution," proposed 
to have the Constitution of the United States 
bound up into the Bible, so as to come be- 
1 ween the Old and New Testaments ; and that 
where the Bible came in coflictwith theG r.- 
stitution the latter was to have precedence. 

Though this proposition w as notacceeded 
o the ministers of the American Church a- 
;reed to say as little as possible about th? 
'Institution" and to give the 'cold shoulder' 
o abolitionists and abolitionism wherever 
hey should meet them. Upon the conciu- 
ion on the part of the minorities, the "Insti- 
ution'' agreed to do all in its power towards - 
advancing the interests of the American, 
Church. 

However, in addition to the above interest- 
ng and important inteiigence, we understand 
hat many well meaning people have deter- 
mined to have an investigation into the nf- 
.'airs of the "Institution," and they have des- 
gnated a person by the name of Van Buren 
o attend to the business. And so the mat- 
er stands-. We hope to have clerm inteli- 
-ence in our next. 



ft^Ohio has elected to Congress 4 Taylo r 
.vh gs, 5 Van Buren whigs, and 10 democrats" 

flt^-M ssachusets it is estimated wilt giwa.- 
ib«ut 11,000 majority for Van Burea. 



If jE freeman* 

BOONTQN, Oft. 35th. 1S48. 

To will rightj to do right, for its own sakt 
is Benevolence, is Religion, is Chiis'.ian.ly. 



A*, the earnest solicitations ofsoom sincere 
nisi dented friends of liberty, we have de- 
voted most oi' our columns to the present po- 
litical canvass. 

V\ T e could do tins because our doctrine is 
^principled not men, 1 ' and under present cir- 
cumstances we can go for the Buffalo Plat- 
form. We expect however, that, even the 
"free soil Party will make upward progress. 
We may perhaps at some future time make a 
more ful exposit ion of our views and feelings 
in relation to these matters. 



THE MEETING AT jvlORRI STOWN. 

This riveting was held according to notice 
on the lSth. inst. in the Court House. There 
was a "ood representation of Free Soil men 
from taiioas parts of the County which with 
the Cass and Taylor men present, filled the 
lar"e court room. As we anticipated we 
were treated with very gentlemanly courtes\ 
by Sheriff 1'arrand, and wish we eou!d say 
the same of all the other whig? of Mo-ristown 
We had an audience before which much 
good m ght have been accomplished for our 
fcauss, but we regret to snv that the speech 
of Mr. Butler «as a great dispointment to the 
free soil men of Morris County. It was not 
what we expected, ncrwhat we had reasgn 
to expect. made some very apropiate re- 
marks upou slavery-extension, but his speech 
jn the main consisted of the mostun"Xiiect-;d 
an ! unmerited laudations of Gen Tay'o •, the 
great champion of a slavery extension war; 
,{111 1 the most biitsir denunciations of Gen. Cass 
H • proved to those p-esent that the whole 
length and breadth; the height and depth of 
hi; tVe.'-soilism, was noth nj more nor less 
thia hatred to Gen Cass. 

We did not ex;)ect so strong an effort mad- 
to prove tn it the country wnu'd be real'v safe 
in the. handu of n man who has proved by tfl-, 
r\ i at every act an I circumstance of his life 
• he, most uncompromising opponent of the 
freo soil.doctrine; while on the other hand 
under the rule of the particular object of his 
. person d dis'ik\ a'l would be. ruin. 

We expected, and had reason to expect 
from Mr. t» i'Jer. an honest exposition and 
defence of the free soii doctrine and its c>u- 
elidates, but were sorely disappointed. We 
did not ask or extvrt him t'> denounce Gen. 
Taylor, but we do think that the extravagant 
praises of th* man might have been left for 
his own mad worshipers to sing. 

The Whigs fe't that his speech did more 
f>r them than tlrv could have done for thern- 
s".Ioj, and, em.bolden.ffl them at the close, to 
make so much confusion and uproar as to 
make u-eless nil further r>r.v;eed'n<r* and 'be 
meeting was adjourned without fimshin'; th' 
I'tisin 'ss. A prominent Whitrdeclared. thai 
"hu w mi l irive ten dollars to have Mr But- 
1 -r C'-inie the-e again" and another said, he 
wbu'rt'ViVa him twmtv dollars to come to 
Burn ton an ! m ike such a speech 

Mr. Butler sta'e'd in his speech that the 
condition of the American slave was much 
better than that of the African? in their own 
country, and in this sense, he declared that 
"Southern Slavery was an improvement up- 
on African Barbarism." 

Why then oppose the extension of slavery 
if this b? true, and we are in fxvorofporres^, 
let us nftt oppoiw. the intro Inetion of slaverv 
; nto Mexico and Cafjfornir, !«•♦ us r"n->al the 
Oregon bill and the MNsouri Compomise and 
let all Nations call away their Cruisprs on 
the coa-it of Africa, or loa 1 th'dr v 'ssjls lyith 
its inhabitant; an! siear for An erica. 

Weadvis's the Free soil men o'N -w Jer- 
sey to let Mr. 33 1 I -r stay in New York. 
Men who are moved by no higher an 1 more 
noble impulse than personal spite, wdl not be 
very likely to help on the causi of Patriot 
ism or Philanthropy. 

We may be thought severe hut our indig 
nation is just. A considerable effort and ex- 
pense had been made to get up a free soi 
meeting in Morriotown. T > bold such a 
meeting there among our m >st inveterate op- 
pon' nts was no s nail trial, and Mr. Batler'.-* 
unfaithfulness was more than we are bound 
. endure in silence. 

We speak the sentim^n's of the free soil 
men who atte nded the mec-'ing, and are 
borne oH in w' at we l ave said h • the tes- 
tiinoi y of I oth whi^s and democrat*. 



uii. i A 1 jl V K L l L£ V, 11 I t ;Ci 
F"ROfasO. 

Among the reasons given by the 
Whigs in favor ofTaylor, none are 
! iiore false ami ridiculous than the 
insertion that, he is favor of tin: 
Wilmot. Proviso. Tn addition to 
what we have already said in this 
point, we give the following. 

The Charleston News — aDem. paper,says 
that "Gen. Taylor should be supported b; 
Southern Democrats in preference to Casf 
because his nomination was made by South 
em and Western men almost exclusively, hi 
receiving the vote of every Southern state 
and their influence will color and control hi. 
administration." 

Eastern (Miss.) Sentinel says: "Cass to 
be sure avows himself friendly to slavery, 
but Tayler points to his 280 slaves." 

Richmond(Va,)Times says ; "If any Gen 
tleman in Massachusetts has a letter fron 
Taylor assenting to the Wilmot Proviso it i: 
i Forgery." 

Georgia Enquirer says: "The silliest ei 
most senseless thing we have noticed fur u 
long time is, the uttetlrpt to make (Jen. Tay- 
lor a Wilmot Proviso man. As no sober or 
sensible man believes this charge, we shah 
pay no attention to it. We dismiss it as a 
slander which refutes itself. No uratt< r how 
often it may be charged — the only answer it 
deserves, is silent contempt " 

The Matagorda (Texas) Tribune says . 
"If G n. Taylor be elected, our peculiar in- 
stitution — slavery — will find safety and pro- 
tection beneath his giant arm and eajde eve." 

This appears to be the pervading opinion 
of the whole South. One of the resolutions a- 
dopted by a Mass Meeting at Charleston, on 
July 20th, says of Gen Taylor, — "We know 
that on this great, paramount, and lea ling 
question of the Sou.h, be is of as — he is with 
us — he is for us." 

Senitor Davis, ofMissippi, a son-in-law of 
Gen. Taylor, (and who certainly should be 
acquainted wit hisopinions,) -'ays, — "He con- 
siders the Proviso unconstitutional." 

At a meeting in Fairfax County, Va., h< id 
on the 17th August, Mr. Haskell, of Tenn., 
was questioned by John T. Barbour, Esq., as 
to Tax lor's opinion of the Wilrnot Proviso. 
Haskill replied, that Gen. Taylor would bo'd 
the Proviso l«i be hasty and inconsiderate leg- 
islation, and would veto it. 

In a recent speech in Congress, Mr. Flour- 
ney, of Virginia, a Whig member, said, -"The 
agitation »£ the save question should be kept 
out of 'he party contests of the d iy. The 
Whigs have agreed to abandon it, so for as 
this canvass is concerned." 



.tup 



tin i 



v.OlUUS k Ol'M V C'OXVf 
TIOW 

This Meeting was held accord'ng 1o pu' - 
ic Notice in the Court Hou-eat Mon#sto\\ 
Wednsday Oct. 18th at 1 o'clock P. M. 

Abram Magie was appointed chairman at < 
John Grimes Sec. 
It was then 

Resolved, That the convention proceed t 
nomination of candidates for the Legi*' 
and county officer. 

The following' nominations were 
made. 

For Asseinbly. 

Benjamin B. Gri>wold. 
William Conkiing 
John D. Mills, 
Geoigc W. Esten. 

For County Clerk 
Nicholas F. Cook 
The Meeting then adjorned to half past i 
o'c'ock. 

3 O'clock P. M. 

The Meeting was organized by callinf 
Uharles Ma'.hews to the chair and the meet- 
ing was addressed by Benjamin F. Butler Esq 
jf New York. 

The following R^so'ution proposed by 
Jacob L. Brotherton was unanimously a- 
dopted. 

Resolved That Congress has no more pow- 
er to make a slave than to make a king. 

Therefore anv efforts made by congress tc. 
Creatg, Ex end or p rpetuate eittv r is a-ti 
Republic m, anli-Democ atic and anti-Chris 
tian: which we are bound to, and will resist. 

The Fourth District Convention -was 
held in Morris'own the 18th. October. 

Charh s Math ws was chosen Chairman 
| and M. Mint >n Sec. 

It was then unanimously Resolved that 
JOHN W. S T OUT 
of New Brunswick b: the candidate for Con- 
gress in fourth District. 



[F.orn the Boston C ronotype.] 

"Last Letter." 



Several months ago, (previous to the close 
of the War,) the Legislature of Missippi ap- 
poin'ed a committee of five tovist Gen. Tay- 
lor, wi h an invitation to visit their Stat". 

Col. Boon", one of the committee, has pub- 
lished a detailed statement of the interview, 
in which he savs, — "Gen. Taylor expressed 
himself in favor of the n ar, and of prossecitt- 
»«7 it until tee could o'ltain tentorial idetnnity. 
Th also said, the South ouqht never to sub- 
mit to th? Wilmot Proviso. " 

G^n. Taylor himself says: — "The action 
of Congress should be respected so far as re- 
lates to Tariff, Currency, and Internal im- 
provements;" but th? question of slavery ex- 
tension, he. "reserves for th • exercise of his 
constitutional prerogative." 

But what n-ed of all this labor to prove 
that he is in favor of the Proviso, let Gen. 
Taylor only say so, let him write it, put hi- 
name to it and send it out to t he world, ant' 
■hat will settle all disputes about it. 



Horace CJreely, after Standing out 
against Tavlor for several months. 
h;ts at hist raised the bloody Flag. 
It is certainly very inorlifyirtg in 
deed to see a zealous friend of peace 
and liherty advocating the eleva- 
iion of a large slaveholder and the 
champion of a slavery-extension 
war. We are sorry he is not more 
consistent. It is an uphill husines : 
for hint and he acknowledges it is 
(Wily to keep out. Cass. This is a 
very poor excuse for Horace, he 
should blush to think of it: but h 
shows how much he really thinks 
of Gen. Ta vlor. 

After all though, he is vastly bet- 
ter and more honorable, than the 
company he keeps. Rend the fol- 
lowing. 

From the N Y. Tribune. 

'THE GREAT ISSUE.' 

Let what may be the result of the pending 
election, llistor. will honor die independei t 
free soil movement as one of the noblest which 
our age has witnessed. It not destined to 
succeed, in the vulgar acceptation ofsucces*. 
it cannot elect a President, an I may not ever, 
a Govonor nor Electoral Ticket lA its owi 
unaided strength ; bu' it is destined surelv 
to accomplish the chief end of its being, bf 
haring forever the New Territories of tin 
Union against the irrup ion of SI ivery. No 
hy electing its own candidates, but by con 
straining those of both the great parties t( 
range thehvelVes, however reluctently, oi 
; he side of free soil, will its triumph be a- 
chieved- Mad it taken the fie'd one war car- 
le r, Gen. Cass would new rhave written th< 
Nicholson letter, nor D. S. Dickinson clun> 
to -the standard of Slavi iy-Kxtension un i 
driven from it by the defection of Messrs. 
Benton and Houston, Senators from Slav. 
Sta'es. Had it sprung to life years earlier, 
it. would b ve saved thr nation ihe thousand, 
of livi s and millions of treasure wasted it 
Mexico. It in essentia lv a noble pinvpmei 
• hatever the faults of its directors. Th' • 
hi >y have committed man* errors, hut v 
wquld as S"on reproach the Apostle lVd fi i 
the stoning of Step' en as Mr. Van Buren I 
any of his by-go.u faults in reference 
ulaveiy. 



How or where we got the fol- 
owiflg letter, wean- not aulhoiiz- 
n\ to fell. U'e do not vouch for 
;s authenticity, bit. the style and 
noughts are"very like" the respect- 
ed author. It is certain, thnt. ti 
he (u-neral did not write it, his 

iews upon the great topics of t! c 
lay, are therein lucidly set forth. 

Baton Rouge, July 1, 1848. 
Sir: In answer to your favor, asking my 
•pinions, 1 beg leave to say: 

That 1 have no"e on the subject and don't 
nean to have. It is enough to say, that, il 
;iecitd, 1 shall be another W. shinglon— a 
I'a^lar out-and-outer — and will follow the il 
jstrious lights of John Adams and ThcmaS' 
-efleison I go for the Presidency, and will 
ake a nomination liom anybody. I am now 
he stand.. ru bean r i f the natives, the w higs 
>ome of the old f< deralis s, a few'semi-abolit- 
onists, and here, and there a loco. 

As for the Wilmot Proviso — bah! Hav 
en's 1 two hundred prime niggers? Don't ], 
.aise twelve hundred bales of cotton, annual- 
ly? / n not al my interests with the South? 
tell them fellows — no you needn't tell, tnc rr 
anything— but b t me and old "Wbitey" gell 
into the Presidency, and I'll give 'em Jessie 
1 tell you. 

Aboat that tariff, I dou't know what it is. 
I mean to ask Bliss, w hen he com<s. It isn't 
a new kind of artillery, is it? 

1 hope yon won't publish this letter,, as it 
might conflict with some I have written be- 
fore. If you write again don't forget :d 
pay the postage. Your "strictly orthodox" 
friend., 

ZACH. TAYLOR. 
P. S. I have shown the above to my oj 
horse Whitey. He don't it.terpose his 7.ei(l 
to it. He says all he wants is to get his no* 
into the public crib. The old fellow hi 
been on sho t allowance lately, on account oi 
hat postage bill. 



Gen. Taylor at Home! — Against Rr« 
Soil! — Mr. Benjamin, one of the WhigelecJ 
tors for th" Slate of Louisiana, affirmed, idflL 
.speech at Baton Rouge, Gen. Taylor's off 
residence, that the old G< n. was "all righCT 
upon the slavery question, adding, "i can oih] 
Sure my fellow citizens here that Taylor wU\\ 
promptly veto any thinq like the Witn.ot Pro4 
ciso. The inteicsts of the South are tafe tit 
his hands." 

Such a statement made at Gen. Taylor! 
>wn door, by a political frieud of position nnl 
frspousibilily, ought to be conclusive with fall 
minJed men who wuuld not see freedom sa 
rifice.l to party. 

For ours Ives we never had a doubt on tl: 
subject. — 'Campaign of Freedom. 



(j^F REE SOIL MEETING IN ECOI 
TON. — This Meetihg was held on Satun'j 
in the afternoon and evening a» d address 
by Dr. Rogers of Clinton a d H. N. Cor.s 
Wsq. of Newark with excellent effi ct. Tl 
i dresses were ■ xo edingly inti resting a^d il 
Uructive. One of them had been a d mocratl 
ind the other a Whig and bad left their oldl 
parties on account of tbtir corruj lions and 
nandonment of principle, and have no desi 
0 get back in'o them agam. 

These are the men to do ep the «oik 
,'ree soi' only give them a chance. 

Mr. Comrer is to speak at Rockaw ay thur 
lav of this wi ek. 



{Ir^Hard stories are told in the papers m 
bout Gen. Cass, how he has fattened o at the 
lublic expense, receiving several >alaresfr(.l 
he "overnirient at the same time, with eM 
tra allowances &c. 

This is probabl'y all true. It is not nefl 
•s-nry for us to labor to prove thai he is in 
avor of s'averv-extension for helm* said he 
vould veto the Wilmot Proviso. This is en- 
lagh to satisfy all Free Soil men as to his 
laims to their votes. His contempt i ble 
ervilily to the interests of the South deserwj 
•ur unfeigned ron'empt. and the more so hfl 
use it all looks toword the- j>etty intennR 
. . i pocket. Al'n r idl we like to 1 afel 
eia'i .v/'/ '.v La t he (i<\ llit-n we kr.ojfl 

t'.v I >a't. Gen. t'.iss il.is settled the (]Uf«* 
n oi'ivs own m"ri!s hltllS If; lie l;te hit 
, uo room 10 doubt. , ' 



&R?M SOIL 



IARTIN VAN BUREN. 
Of New York. 

For Vice-President 
CHARLES F. ADAMS 
Of Massachusetts. 

For Electors. 
Alexander Wurts, 
Alexander H. Wallis, 
James Howey 
Edward D. Weld, 
David Ryersoii, 
Jeptha B. Munn, 
Samuel Baldwin. 

For Congress oth. District 

John Stout 
Of New Brunswick. 



I.arb- r end river NATIONAL REFORM NOMINATION: 



• , I" ..... N i ; TO ACTUAL PF.TTi.ErSj TN 

»'l HSB QU kNTI&S, (IF THE I TBLIG LANDS. 

(7.) A present Tariff adequate to iberajr- 
'i it of d.e pul lie d In. and fi r li t tcdnufi 
ical expoaces of the government'. 

14. Resolved, Tl at we ins -ribc upon ni, 
■nn-r. "FREE SOIL, FREE SPEACH 
V REE LABOR. AND FREE MEN." an. 
ider t will fight on, and fight ever, until i 
■iumph of victory shall reward < ur oxer- 



Platform of Free 
Democracy. 

F"R the convenience of reference, we ab- 
breviate and arrai.e i.i order the princi- 
ples of this pta'fbrin, as contain- d in the more 
formal style cf the resolutions : — 

1. The Conventi' n is declared a union of 
Freemen, who, forgeting a 1 past political 
difere"ces. combine against the aapress'om- 
of the Slave Power, and to secure Free Soil 
for Free Men. 

2. The two political parties are disbanded 
by the late National conventions, by he sac- 
rifice of their principles, and i heir subservien- 
cy to slavrho'ding dictation; and neither of 
their ca didates can be supported without a 
sacrifice of consistency; duty, and sf If '-respect. 

3. The people are assembled, renvmberimi 
the example of the f thers of the Republic. 

pitting, their truzt in God to: (heir triumph, and 
invoking his guidance, plant thems 'Ives upon 
the National platform of Freedom, in opposit- 
ion to the Sectional platform of slavery. 

4 Slavery in the Stat s depends upon 
State laws alone, which the General Gov- 
ernment cannot repeal, and for which it is not 
responsible. 

5. The "o'icy of the Government, as shown 
by the Jte.Te.son Proviso, and other acts, has 
been* not to extend, nati nalize, or encour- 
ag -, but t • limit, localize, and Uiscouragi 
slavery • a id to this policy the government 
should return. 

G. The Constitution was or lain d to pro- 
mite th=> g--ner.il welfare and *ec"re thpbles- 
sings of Libe ty, and denies to the govcrn- 
ni 'lit all power to deprive anv p 'rson ot lite, 
liberty, or property without legal |>rocess. 

7. Congrew has no more power to make a 
slave thm a king, or to establish slavery than 
a monarchy. 

8- It is the duty of the government to re- 
Lav itself from all responsibility for the ex 
lstence or theex'ension ot slaveiy. 

9. Th*> onlvsaf o- ! 'prev;intii>3 '(v> exten- 
sion ofsIav*ry into free ter itory, i.« to pro 
hib't its exi-t>.n:.' ther: by a;t of Congress. 

10 We accept ■ he issue of die Slave Pow 
er, more slaves, and mo-e slave territory, an 
«'ur final answer is — NO More slaves, — N( 

Sl.AVF. TERKITORITV. 

11 The late Compromise Biil of the Sen 
ate L no compromise, but a surrender of ou. 
rights ; and the people are warned not to suf- 
fer their representatives to betray the m , J 
a v/ f irther compromises with slavery are mar ; e 

T;[EV MUST ItE REPEALED. 

12. We demand Fr -f dom and Fr e Insti 
tutions for Oregon, for California, an. I New 
Mexico. 

13. Ou other questions of policy, the fol 
lowing principles are advanced: 

( 1 . ) Cheap postage for the people. 

(2.) Retrenchment of the expenses ar.< 
pitronage of the »overnmeiit. 

(3.^ Abo it : on of all n.'in 'c< ssary offi< 
an 1 s.ilaiii's. 

v., ThAcb'ction of all civil cflb-ers 

reed by toe people. 



THE CASTING VOTE. 

The whig speech makers all over the Free 
States, from Daniel Webs'< r downwared, are 
isserting that Martin Van Buren gave his 
casting vote in the Senate for a law, autoriz- 
ing postmasters to search the mails and sto| 
all anti-slavery pub'ications. This charge ft 
utterly false, and those that make it know i 
to be so. No s ich law was ever passed, ant 
t'.ieref re Mr. Van Buren could never have 
vote! for it, as he could only vote in theca3e 
of a tie. 

It ii well known that a bill in order to be- 
come a law mu-t pass through three separati 
readings, and can only become a law af er i 
has received a majority at its third reading. 
Now Mr. Van Buren on'y gave his c"astin<. 
vote on the second reading of the Bill, whicl 
ni'-mbers oft n do through courtessy to the 
friends of the bill, knowing that s ich a vot< 
cannot make it law. The bill refered to on 
its third reading was rejected by a large ma- 
jority, many vtiug against it who voted in 
favor of ihe second reading. So much for 
Whig honesty in tivs matter. Do they come 
any nearer the truth in other matters. 1 ' 

ftjpl know that he [Martin Van Buren] is 
opposid upon principle to the annexation of 

Texas. — John Qaiey Adams. 



The Tobacco Almaiac for 1839, Published 
dy Fowler and W, lis 131 Nassau St, N.Y. 
i: a document that every person should have, 
particularly all users of tobacco — We give 
the following extracts. 

A p or farmer ( as relat d t o me recently) 
with but one cow aad horse, found them trou- 
bled with lice. A b nevolen' friend gave him 
a bottle of tobacco, as he had heard that it 
would dist o-y the lice at one. 'I he owner 
hanked him for the article, and poured it 
along tin bajk and tail of the ho.--;e and cow 
lecording t > director) ■ They soon showed 
;igus of weaknes-s, and lay down.; one sur- 
vived six hours, and the other about twelve- 
:o the asto ishment and grief of the owner 
and hL friend. 

An in lividual residing in the city of New 
V., who trains& speculates in «'ogs fora live- 
iliood, informed m> that he thought on;: of 
l s most va'uable dogs did not appear ven 
veil ;r>dc ncludi d he would give him au 
me tic. Consequently, be soaked a cigar it 
r 'er to ai.uin the juice for the above purpose: 
vat Wore the d'>g h d the dose on I is stom 
toil one minut- it was dead, which great \ 
u+prised his mast r. 



(jCfplihink of Gen. Taylor very much a:, 
le seems to think ot' himself.— Darnel Wel- 
s'er. 

I greatly doubt my qualifications to dis- 
Jiarge the duties properly.— Gen. Taylor. 

We publish in another column an abstract 
jf the Buffi lo Platform, will some good whij 
iirnish us with the Philadelphia Platfotm 
.Ve should like to publish that too. 

FACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER thai 
VORDS. — Gen. Ca-s says he w ill veto th. 
Vibti t Proviso and go fo/ ; slavery. Get 
' n lor rsw alwsivs worked; for slavery, fouol 
»r it, an 1 owns alio LZZti slaves. Gen. Ca 

tin es, but G -n. Ta lor u i;evcr surrende r 



FOR PRESIDENT. 

GERR1T SMlTiL 
Of New York, 

- mn vii e-pp.f.s'dext 
CHARLES C. FOOTE 

Of Michigan- 
( "Land Monopoly I would disfavor, wtwtL- 
ir on. the part ofG vernment or individuals. 
Kfence I would have the public binds thrown 
open lo actual settlers, free ■ fcost. I would 
add under this head that EVERY MAN'S 
HOMESTEAD SHOULD BE INALIEN- 
ABLE, except by his own 'consent." — Get- 
rit Smith. 

The New Jersey Stafef National Reform 
~!onvenlio was held in Newark on the 12ih. 
nst. and the following e'cctoral Ticket wag 
adopted. 

Moses Jaques. 
G rover C. Stewart 
Wi'iiam Heighten 
Richard Coriell 
James Law 
F. Guest 
Jam-s Porter. 



Secret Societies. 

u No man Ughtcth a candle ami 
putleth it under a bmhel." 

'■Have no fellowship with the un- 
fruitful 7ooi ks of darkness." 



ions KpelX 



louder than words. 



a, out I Taylor and vi a' kind of 

.-. vol! • t*'j ■ i' fr >n P..^. ..I 



"The New Ini:i'.tion Service. — t Weitr=. 
derstand that many of our brethren have an 
idea that the new service is yet to be submit- 
ted to the Tents for their approval before it 
_oes into effect'. We will just say that this 
a mistake. The services have been adopted 
by the Hi^h Tent and ordered to go in'o op- 
eration on or before the 1st. of February, and 
a«i soon as they are sent to the Tents by the 
H. C S. will become law, and must take ef- 
fect by the 1st. of Feb. 1849.— iV. Y. Wash- 
ingionian. 

There you h ive it g^nt'em/ni R<>chabi'es, 
Repub'icanism with a veng ance. You have 
• othing to do but to- knock under ; the "High 
Tent" coinmanHs and you. rau>t obey. 

Therefore take it cheerfully, munner not 
but like y;ood peac -able citizens submit and 
swallow the pill. It is no doubt for the 
"Good of the Order," but don't call jour or- 
der a Republican order. 



TKB SLAvE THABE.;' 

The E*;$i. h and' Foreign Am'. 
aepoWcr for Sept. gives a summary \ i- v.- 
°iuru'er.oiis documents laid before Pr i 
>v commissioners at Sierra Lecne, Ha. : . 
>.pe of Good Hope, Brazil kc. 'which ■,] 
"at the Slave Trade is not dimin'sl \ 
Treves -,\ho.t .Abolitionists hav* 1 Imio-e 
he only way to stop this trade is to si.-.i* 
the market. As long as there is a mm 
open for the sale cf slaves, they w iil ;., 
— Avarice will prompt men surmour.t-^H^ 
s aeles in the way of this trade. 

Lord Howdcn, late British Minister 
Brazil, under date Uio de Janeiro, 9th F 
1S4S, niaices tlra following statement in W 
tibn to the- Slave Trade during the • 
,1847, ^ 

"1 have the honor to inform your LdSfti 
that; according to the- best estimation I hf 
been able to make above G0,0C0 Afr'c 
have been imported as slaves into Era.~ii 
ring the year 1847 * * * never haflL' 
slave dealers so perfected all the apr 
ces and appliances of their vile trade : 
present; never have they so org-iiiiz tl 
whole range of shore signals from St. Ki 
t ine's to Ba-liia, nor established such 
ties for landing their cargoes ns now."' • 

The Reports sta'e that the slave v a 
captured or destroyed in 1S46 were as I 
lows. 

By the British Cruisers. 4 7. 
" French ' 13. 

" Portuguese " 7. 
" American " 2. 
So it would seem that even the Port' 
are doing much more to suppress this t: 
than the Americans. 

The following shows that the slave t 
on the increase notwithstanding the C( 



AN EXTRACT. 
Secret Societies produce a mental slavery 
That man is a slave whose mind is not free 
it is irn vain that he miy enjoy "light and life 
md the use of his own limbs," if his soul is 
; n bon.lage. He who- is bound to secrecy on 
:ertain subjects, and to one class of fellow 
nen, bv unknown ties, which do not exist be- 
vveen him and others, is unreasonably a 
lave. Other m^n, men of discordant prin- 
ciples and views, have power over his facul- 
ie", and in proportion to hissul j 'ction to the 
issocialion, he is in I or.dage, and becomes a 
nere, perhaps, a dis honorable machine. 



Free Soil. 



A Free Soil Meeting is to be held on Sat- 

d;iy evening of this week,(0ct. 2Sth.) ii 

e Free CI inch. Eoen'.on 

Eugene Casserly Esq. of New York is < x- 

c ed 'o address 'be nice icg. 

I rtdies and \. n . t n of a|l prrties-atc ii 



zation Society says so 


much about a 


ing this trtffie. 




Slaves ] 


ted from Africa.. 


Carried into B 


" In 1840 


64,114. 


30,000 


" IS41 


75,097. 


16,0C 


« 1S42 


23,400. 


I4,2C0 


" 1843' 


55,062. 


30,5'!/. 


" 1S44 


54,102. 


26,00t- 


" 1S45 


3S,75S. 


22,700 


" 184G 


76,1 17. 


52,600 


" 1847 


84,356. 


57,$CC- 



The difference beteen the two co 
shows the number that were carried 
Spanish Colonies and the United S 
perhaps a few other places, and those t 
in the passage. 

The reports also state that from 17S 
16-10 the number exported from Afri 
% 18,500 

444.046 since 1840 

1462,516- 

The number of slaves, embarked frcm 
African coast for America since 17SS is 1 
546. no doubt as many more have bet., 
in Africa in capturing them. 

We regret that we have not room to 
all the article from the Reporter, we thii 
would tarn the attention of honest mcr. ! 
abolition of the root of all this evil, 
ing short of the total abolition of slave, 
stop this infamous slave trade. 

A Model: Town. — In Bloomfield, 0 
says au. exchange paper, Here are 250 
All but two for Van Buren and Adai; 
iwo'who do not are equally divided bet\ 
Cass and Taylor. 

Another.- Cheshire, in Berks, Ma^s, the 
-■brated John Lcland's town, contains 
.'oters. 'i'ht'y are — for Taylor 0. Cass 2. 
Buren 258. It is thought that before 
ton the Cass strength will be divid-cd,. v. 
fay'or will hardly hold his own ! 

{j^FOR SALE AT THIS OFF 
.Iiie Liberty Al.makac for li 
rieiid of freedom should bt: v/ilhoi 
llent collection of valuable tl 
ALSO, P11RENOLOGIC 
. : T-JBACCO A' 



F>v>m the Young America. 
KEEP IT BEFORE THE PEOPLE. 

BY DUGANNE. 

Keep it before the People, 

That the eart h was made for man! 

That Flowers were strown, 

And fruits were grown,, 
To bless and never ban : 

That sun and rain, 

And corn and grain, 
Are yours and mine, my brother — 

Free g'fis from heaven, 

And freely given, 
To one as well anolher! , 

Keep it before the People, 
That man is the image of God, 

Whose limbs nor soul 

Ye may not control 
With shackle, or shame, or rod! 

We may not be sold, 

For silver or gold — 
Neither you nor I, my brother — 

F'or Freedom was given, 

By God from Heaven, 
To one as well another ! 

JKcep it, before the people, 

That famine and crime, and wo, 

Forever abide 

Still side by side, 
With luzury's dazling show ; 

That Lazarus crawls 

From Dives' halls, 
And starves at his gate my brother 

Yet life was given 

By Gud from heaven, 
To one as well as another! 

Keep it before thepeor^le, 

That the lnboror claims his meed, 

The right of soil. 

And the right to toil 
From spur and bridle freed: 

The right to bear 

And the right to shin? 
Wit!) you and me, my brother — 

Whatever is given 

By God from heaven, 
To 6ne as well as another! 



SELECTED. 

Ye who know and do the tight, 
Ye who cherish honor bright, 
Ye who worship love and light, 

Chose your side to-day, 
Succor Freedom, now \ou can, 
Voting for an honest man ; 
Let not Slavery's blight and ban, 

On your ballot lay. 

Boasts your vote n-> higher aim, 
Than between two blots of shame 
That would stain our country's fume, 

Just to chose the least? 
Let it sternly answer no! 
Let it straight for Freedom go; 
Let it swell the winds thatblow 

From the North and east. 

Do your duty He will aid ; 

Dare to vote as you kave- prayed ; 

Who e're conquered, while his blade 

Served his open foes. 
Right established would you see? 
Feel that you yourselves are free : 
Strike for that which aught to be — 

God will bless the blows. 



he men lhat'robby law are as truly theive:^ 
men that rob by violence. The gov 
that tax the people for any other ob 
people's good, are a band <• 
lirform Almanac. 



It is better to rely upon our own ju<!i 
nent, in matters of conscience, than to tru? 
o the 1 arning- and ability of the gn at men- 
;o termed— of the world. We may be wi 
ing to tiust a doctor in disease, <>r a c;>rper> 
ter in house building ; but not so with que.- 
lions of conscience. No man has the ngl 
o let his fellow — though he may be unchal 
lenged for goodness of heart and deepness < 1 
nind — decide what may be 1" is duty in ; 
moral matter. We object not to interchang 
if thought — to hot discussion, if \ou pleas* 
f it be rightly tempered ; but we contend fo. 
independence of thought an I acion. Let i 
nan make right his pole-star, and we fea 
not that discussion will lead him astray. I 
•i in the absence of this that men frequent! 
lecorne indifferent to their moral and socia 
luties ; and hence our ministers are reliei 
•ipon in moral diseases, as our physicians ar< 
in physical. We are notopp sed to learnin' 
or sound doctrine, but we believe thatque. 1 - 
lions of morality do not require much learn- 
ing or doctrine to render them ch ar. Coi. 
science, that monitor that God has imp!ante< 
in every man, will surely lead him in thi 
right path, if he be inclined to follow her. 
What we would most desire to guard agains 
is the id' a that, by surrounding our-elve.' 
with sound doctrinal barriers, we are g a-d 
in-; and securing the heart from the attacks 
of Evil. Let the heart be filled with Lovt 
and it will sus ain the head-- but the head 
can never i-us'ain the heart. 

Some one has said, "The only High 
Schools are those devoted to th- education o 
the heart." Common Schools, we think, 
might profi ably pursue the same studies. 



(^PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
or 1849. — FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
N"as-au Street, New York, have published 
ind have for sale at their office the Phreno 
ogical Almanac for 1840. B .sides the 
jsual Calandar adapted to a'l latitudes in the 
u. S., it c>n'ain«» a great amount of intern-st- 
ng matter, with likenpsses of v.-ri us distin 
,'uished individuals illustrating the impor 
tahce Phrenology and Physiology in their ap- 
>lications to the various purposes of life. 
It is richly worth the price, ami deserves 
| > free circulation. 



WASHINGTON CITY, LIST. OF 
COLUMBIA. 

;. BAILEY, editor; J. G. whittjeb, cokres 

PONDING EDITOR. 

L. P. NOBLE PUBLISHER. 

The Leadi gp rposeofthis Journal is, the 
■ iscussiou of th« qu> siton ol Shivery, and 
he advocacy of ihe main principles of the 
Ah rty Party. Due attenti- n is given to So- 
ial and Political Questions ofgeneral imior- 
ance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 
o be overlooked. 

It aim* to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in ventions or discoveries 
.fleeting the progress of Society; of pub ic 
'••cumenls of permanent »alue; and, during 
he sessions of Congress, to present such re- 
iorts of its procedings as- « ill convey a cor 
r<ict idea not onlv of its actton, but of it.» 
s iir.t and policy. The. debalas on the ex- 
•iting subject' of Slaverv and the Mexico 
V'ar, expected to arise iu the next Congre- 
.ill occupy a large share ofits colu ■> ns. 

Arra gements have been made for extern 
ng and enriching its already valuble Depar 
nent of Home and Foreign Correspondence 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of th 
inest q alty, in the best s'yle, at $2 a yea 
taxable in advance. 

The generous spirit >>.' which the Era hr 
leen welcomed by the Publtc Pre-.-, an; 
he very liberal patronage it has receive* 
this the first year of its existence, encourage 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub- 
scription list. 

It is desirable lhats bscrptions be forwan'- 
J without delay, so th it they may be enfc r- 
d before the approaching Congress. 

Address L^P. NOBLE, 

Publisher of the National Era, Washington. 
D. C. 



Stockings. 

We advise arl those wanting ;i 
superior article in the stocking line 
and feeling a desire to encourage 
home manufacture, to call at ilu 
shop of John Jiiques in Boon ton 
where they will not fail to be at 
commodated. 



fltJpThe abolition ol sla-ery in the Danist 
Colonies look place the third of Jury. i848 



Judge Jay's Letter to Bishop IvES-.This 
lette! has been stereotype d' and is lor Sale 
by Wi ham Harned at the office of the A- 
merican & Foreign Anti-Slavery Soci< ty Gt 
.l(Am Street New York.. At $2,40 a hui.dred. 
3 cents single. Judge Jays writings need 
no recommendati' n. 



There must besoraething wrong. 

When we think of the destructive progre.-s 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong," 

"That's worth the findii g out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we l ave laying on <ur table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist, 
published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, which we 
• trnestly recommend to all those interested 
ind who should not be interrested,) in the 
reservation of the teeth. It should be read: 
y every body, particularly the young, 
'rice twelve and a ha'f cents. 

{jrj* A Scripture Argument in favor of with- 
i awing fellowship from church< sand Eccle- 
iastical Bodies tolerating Slaveholding a- 
uong them, by Rev. Silas McKeen of Brad- 
ord, Vermont; This is an excellent tract of 
ibout 40 pages. It is published by the A- 
nerican and Foreign Anti-Slav, ry Society 
md for sale by Wm. Harned, 61 John Street 
New York. 



iCy-CHEMlt-TRY, and its applicati. n to 
Pnysi -logy Agriculture and Commerce, hv 
I rofes or L1EBIG, price 20 cents, published 
by Fowlers and Wells, 132 Nassau St. N. 
¥ork.— The works of Professor Liebi<r speak 
for themseelv 



CONGREGATIONALISM by keep, & 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at th s office. These books should 
be lead by eveiy friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 

sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance t at a I 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furni.-hes 
some valuable light on the subject. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
for sale at this Office. 

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT —Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published b\ tie New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 

ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office, among which are the fol- 
lowing : 

Memoir of Lovejoy. 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

Slave's Friend 3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglas*, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
I'ouine's Picture of Slavery, 

Mott's Sketchi s. 



LIJLIETYT R \rrtS— forsale 
t this office, 
Slavery and tUeKter? trade at. 

th, iValion s Capital,.. 
Kacts for the People; 
Catechism ou the Mexican war.. 



THE LIBERTY ALMANAC FOR 
1849 is just pub'ished by the American and 
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, and is for sa'e 
by Wm. Harned, 61 John st. N. Yo k, at 
$3 per 100 copies, 50 cents a dozen, 6 cents 
single. It contains 48 pages of closely print- 
ed matter, and is more valuable than any 
heretofore published. It is one that just 
suits the times, and should be in the posses- 
sion of every one that desires to have a ready 
access to important statistics on the Mexican 
war, slavery, elec ions, &c , with a great 
amount of useful information. No other 
documen* contains more valuable information 
for the same money. 



flr^THE WATER CURE JOURNAL 
and HERALD OF REFORMS.— This is 
a monthly Journal of 32 pages, edited by 
foel Shew M. D., at one dollar a year. It is 
levoted to the Water Cure and all that ap- 
)■ rtains to health, contains much interest- 
ing and useful matter, and should be read by 
'very one who considers health of anv val- 
ue and is ignorant of the true value of water. 
We do not believe that water will cure every 
hing, or that it should be used at the exclu- 
sion all other things as remedial agents; but 
we do believe that its usefulness is very little 
inderstood, and wish this Journal may have 
i large circula'inn. It is published by Fow- 
lers and Wells, 131 Nassau Street N. Y. 



{^PHRENOLOGY— Phrenology is the 
Science of mind, and is a most interresting 
ind profitable study. It is an excellent cure 
i'or superstition and ign ra 'ce,and should be 
nves'igated by everv well wi-her of the hu- 
nan rac». Let all read the Phrenolog'cal 
lournal published morrhlyby Fowlers and 
Wells for one dollar a year, at 131 Nassau 
Street N. Y. 



<&> AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO- 
CIETY.— The office of this Society is - t No 
61 John street New York. Its fWd of 
operations lias hith rto been principally a- 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mendi M ssion, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to exten t its field. It does not receive 
con'ribution* from slav.-holdrs, and is highly 
deserving >.f sup; ort from the fiitnds of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappan of N. Y. is Treasurer. 



{jc^P sition and duties of the North 

WlTIIEG ARD TO SLAVERY. 

This is the the ■■ itle of a well written tract 
of 24 pag 'S, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
published by Charles Whipp'e of Newbury- 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some small points but as a tvhole it 
contains rnti- h valuable matter & we wish 
every man in the free States might rend it. 
We are cettain that no truly honest North- 
ern man could read it and feel that he had 
nothing to do with slavery. 

The facts set forth iu this tract proves con- 
clus'vely that Slavery has had, and still does 
have much to do with us. But let it be read 
it will s >eak for itself. It is for Sale by Wm 
Harned 61 John Street N. Y. 



The Morris & Essex Rail Road is 
now completed to Dover, and the cars run as 
follows : 

Leave New York f«>r Dover — 

At 8 A. M. and 4 P. M. 
Leave Newark for Dover — 

At 8 3-4 A. M. and 4 3-4 P. M. 
Leave Dover for New York — 

At 6 1-4 A. M. and 1 1-2 P.M. 
Leave Morristown for New York — 

At 7 A. M. and 2 1-2 P. M. 
A stage runs twice a day from Boonton, 
meeting the cars at Denville both ways. 




uarv 3., 1849. 



No. 10. 



J KRSEY 



for 



It seenvs 



THE 



WILL BE PL'lll.lSltED MONTHLY BY 



Boonton, Mfms County, New Jersey. 

T E R M S : 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, 
12 numbers 
5 copies io one address for otfe dollar. 
\\\ em n- !T-;is5 br. ' . v-a d. 

[J2R Ll ^ISSlO'ft AJilONG 
TH E FRIENDS. 

.haf a lar^rr p'ortio 1 of the ; g?n- 
nessse...yeariy m-jWing'.of 7vh uds held a con- 
ference at FaimingumN. Y. in Oct. last, and 
come to the conclusion that no discipline but 
the Bible, and no guide but the Divine Spirit 
is necessary for the preservation and perfec- 
tion of a religious meeting or of religious 
society. The following is the manifesto of j 
this conference of Reformers. We publish it 
by request, and reccommend it to the careful 
consideration of all the friends of reform. 
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE MAY 
C 0 M E : 



is not thus instrumental, its non-exisieno- 
were desirable. To promote this, object there 
j must be a piactical conformity to the Divine 
I laws — the principles of the association must 
j be in harmony with the principles of the 
j Divine govermeut. |£br righteousness is 
JOHN" GRIMES Editor and Proprietor, ! none other than the results of these laws — 

the exemplification of these principles in the 
actions of moral agents. 

Man is made to sustain a relation of an 
intellgcnu and accountable agent, under the 
Supreme intelligence; has the law of God 
written oti the conscious powers of his soul; 
stands in such contiguity to Omnipresent 
God as to have immediatly revealed to him 
God's will regarding him. This is the funda- 
mei.tal fact in religion; that which constitutes 
man a subject of God's moral govermeni; the 
foundation of his hopes, of his aceountabbity. 

This, revelation of God's will to him be 
feels ai d knows to be personal — his account- 
ability 1 persona! and not transferable, ihougli 
connecting; him in obligation; and binding 
him by kindred ties with the whole family of 
man. Yet, as absoluUy personal and indi- 
vidual as though he and God were alone in 
the Universe. Hence his conscience must 
be kept sacred in its devotion and allegiance 
to God, from whom the law comes. No 
laws nor institutions of men, should restrict 
this individual exercise of conscience, of re- 
sponsibility. The only restriction that can 
be Christian or lawful in this momentous mat- 
ter, in the terms of association, is the admis- 
sion of the obvious principle, that no pretext 
of conscience can be valid which violates the 
equal rights of others, or any ofthe unchange- 
able principles of moral obligation, which are 
primary to conscience, aed by which, in the 
Divine Order, it is to be governed. 

Liberty of conscience, then— the recogni- 
tion of the right of every member to act 
in obedience to the evidence of Divine 
Lijrht, in hs present and progressive unfuld- 
ings of truth and duty to the mind, must be 
a fundamental principle in every right organi- 
zation. 

That this perfect liberty of conscience, is 
the right of every sane and accountable hu- 
man being, appears from several other con- 
siderations. Mankind partake of the vari- 
ety which every where marks the Creator's 
works. Though identical in the elements 
of their being, these elements oxii-t in 
the race in infinitely diversified 
proportions. Hence their individuality, 
their peculiarities of character. Again: 
they are each subject to influences as diversi- 
fied as their mental and physical peculiarities 
— all which affect their character, their views 
their actions. This diversity furnishes oc- 
casion for a most profitable exercise of some 
of the finest ieelings and affections of our na- 
ture — tenderness, kindness, tolerance. From 
the universality of the facts in the case, the 
practice of these virtues is obligatory on all, 
and no institution can be Christian — can ex- 
emplify loveto God and man — (the substance 
of Christianity) — that is deficient in these 
virtues. "Christianity," says an enlighten- 
ed writer, "respects this diversity in men- 
aiming notto undo but further God's will; not 
fashioning all men after one pattern — to think 
alike, act alike, be alike, even look alike. Jt 
is something far other than Christianity 
which demands that. A Christian Church 
then should put no fetters on the man; it 
should have unity of purpose, but with the 
most entire freedom for the individual. When 
you sacrifice the man to the mass in church 
or state — church or state becomes an offence 
a stumbling-block in the way of progress, arid 
must end or mend. The greater the variety 
of individualities in church or state, the better 
is it, so long as all are really manly, humane, 
and accordant. A Church must needs be 
partial, not catholic, where all men think a- 
like — narrow and little." It has been the 
want of this broad and Christian ground of 
toleration that has been the banc of every 
church; Catholic and Protestent. In pro- 
portion to its absence, despotic and oppres- 
sive measures have marred the harmony and 
pail fully defeated tht; objects of religious so- 
ciey. 

Another cause of the exercise of despotic 
power in professed Christian churches, has 



been the establishment of an ascending scale! "By their fruits tie shall 1 now ♦b» m » ind ; 4j 
of authority of larger bodies over smaller, Uendenily of abstract opinion^ Thus ? J 
terminating in a dead or fcupreirr.: Coiiiroli-I . , "• 

ing Power! This, we are persuaded, hasj or s.ster might hold the doctrine of 

been a prominent cause, of the difficulties %2 or Vicarious Atonement -—might 
which have been experienced in the Society j practice Wafer Baptismfthe ceremony of 
of Friends,, at different periods of its history, I Bread and Wise, and kindred 'rituals < r 
and especially of the divisions- which have j h ,. mi ht Lel : f , M fc . ' & 

occurred within the last quarter of a centurv. , .7, . , ' JS u S l '5fl 

i *i , I,. | \ r -n • Should be recognized to preach his conscien- 
lu the establishment of Preparative,!.. . . 1 V J-«p«<«e»- 

Monthly, Quarterly, and Yearly Meetings, it.j " 0US CO ; 5V!Cl,ons oflhe *> «»?»«?* M> any of 
was doubtless, not contemplated, in the early j our meetings — each, in either case, conced- 
periods of the Society, that any dsepotic an- j i"g the right of every other brother and bister, 
ihority should be exercised by larger meet-, who ma y deem that error has h, 
ings over smaller. The only power intended | ted; to endeavor 
to be exercised appears to have been that of 



persuasion and love .But the history ofthe 
Society shows how easy it is to abuse power, 
when men have incautiously been vested 
with it, by the expressed or implied rules of 
a written code. And the experience ofthe 
past admoishes us to recur to original funda- 
mental ground, in regard to the design of re 



tieen promulga- 
in the pure spirit of love 
and kindness, to make it apparent, either be- 
fore the same congregation, or in any of bur 
meetings where they apprehend themselves 
called upon to do so. Thus, by the recogni- 
tion of equal rights and the sacrednesa of con- 
science, and of the duty of reciprocal kind* 



Beloved Brothers and Sisters : — 

Having, pursuant to adjournment, in the 
6th month last, again met, tojeonsider what 
measures it will be right to adopt, that the 
blessings of Religious Society firi-.vv be placed 
within die reach of ail, our minds have been 
led into an examination of religious associati- 
on in general. Ik looking^ at this subject, 
melancholy evidences present on every hand, 
that societies or church-organizations, osten- 
sibly for the promotion of religion, have been 
among the greatest impediments to its prog- 
ress, and the most fruitful sources of tyranny 
and oppression. But, while we feel that 
thpse facts should lead to the utmost care in 
regard to the principles permitted to enter 
iuto their structur, we are abundantly assured 
that these results are their abuse, not their ne- 
cessary attendants — the consequene ofthe 
admission into them of elements hostile to 
man's nature, his duties, & inalienable rights. 

Religious association has manifestly its 
foundation in the reilgious and social ele- 
ments ofthe human mind, principles power- 
ful and constant in our nature, and most be- 
nificent in their legitimate action. We are 
made pre-ernintly social beings. From the 
exercise of the social principles of our nature, 
flow all the reeiprocalbenefils, all the count- 
less offices of love and kindness, which 
strew with blessings the path of life. Not on- 
ly in the. physical, but especially in the high 
er departments of man's nature — the moral 
and religious — we behold the working of this 
beautiful & beneficent economy; in the min- 
gling of sympathies and affections; in impart- 
ing to each other the treasures of the intel- 
lect, the conscience, the religious feelings; in 
united aspirations to, and reverence and ador- 
ation of the Supreme Being. 
To attain these social religious benefits in the 
hieghst degree, assemblies are needed; these 
require arrangement, time, manner as well as 
object; in short, organization, or understood 
modes i f action. We need on'y that these 
and right — not < onfiicting with 

in © 

atives, nor God's 
: of Hi ious association mav be 
Sefii'ir.'m hrier lo be, the pgn motion of 
rVb^oiftSK'S:: — of praeiicn I gocdneSs— levetn 
Go I at\ ! man — on the - part ofev. ry mem- 
b^.comr.ositt-r ass- v'iou, and in tiv 
world at largo. So far as It is instrumental t ) 
this end, it is Christian, a blessing to the 
community in which it exists. So far as il 



be wise 
man's pv 
•r" 



roi 



iigious association, and remove from it an el- nR ss, a narrow sectarianism and party feeling 
emc-nt demonstrably evil in its tendency and would vanish before the Jight u£ truth wad 
results — the subordination of meetinns, or the flU m ;,,,;. „r 4 l , ! , ' 

uie minus ot (He sincere and pious be more 

and more united. Nothing would be found 
so potent to promote unanimity of sentiment 
and brotherly love, as action based on these 
Divine principles. Under their influer.ee a 
censorious and contentious spirit would find 
no place, the governing desire would be the 
attainment of truth, and thus would be ver- 
ified the v, oi ds of the excellent Isaac Penn- 
ington— "It is not the different practice from 
one another that breaks the peace and units ,. 



vesting of larger meetings with authority over 
smaller. As in a right organization the man 
can not be sacrificed to the mass, the individ- 
ual conscience to an assemblage of cou 
sciences; so neither can a number of individ- 
ual consciences in a congregation rightfully 
be sacrificed to a larger assembly, Of any as- 
sumed established head. The order of inde- 
pendent congregations, therefore, has opened, 
with great unanimity and clearness, as most 
in harmony with man's nature and rights, 
and least liable to abuse. 

Each congregation or meeting, will const? 



quently attend to its own internal or disci- the judgmg one another because ofdifier- 



plinary concerns. Larger meetings — Quar- 
terly or Yearly — will he for counsel and ad- 
vice, and lor the consideration and promotion 
of the gteat interests of humanity — every 
thing that concerns man at large — includiiur 
of consequence the existing evils ofthe day, 
War, Slavery, Intemperance, Licentiousness, 
or in whatever form cruelty, injustice, and 
other perverted principles may operate, 
i'early meetings may suggest rules or regu- 
lations tor the government of parteular meet 
ing or congregations, but shall have no power 
to inforce. 

Another fruitful cause of difficulty and dis- 
affection, has been the institution of Meeting 
of Ministers and Elders. Of these we propose 
the discontinuance, as also of the practice of 
recommending or ordaining ministers. Ev- 
ery meeting or congregation will attend to 
the regulation of the ministry among them- 
selves: and if any one proposing to travel to 
a distance, wishes a certificate of moral char- 
acter, it can be granted for the time being. 

Not only will the equality of woman be 
recognized, but so perfectly, that in our 
meetings, larger and smaller, men and w<> 
men will meet to gather and transact l uisi- 
ness jorntly. 

These principles, simply carried out, will, 
we apprehend, effectually prevent the abuses 
and evils of ecclesiastical organizations. 

And should they at any time fail to be ex- 
emplified in the practice of a meeting toward 
any of its members, the evil would be limit- 
ed, and not very oppressive, as any member 
aliecled by it, would be at liberty to join an- 
other congregation, and still participate in the 
privileges ofthe general association. 

Two evils at least, if not wholly excluded, 
would find but scanty soil to grow in — Ty- 
ranny and Sectarianism. And these will 
be the more effectually prevented by the re- 
cognition of the great principle, already ad- 
verted to, of perfect liberty of conscience — 
which in our view, forbids the establishing of 
any thing as a barrier to religious fellowship, 
either as regards individual or the intcr-oom- 
munication of congregations, but the viola- 
tion of the great unohygcable principles of 
morals, revealed, as facts of consciousness, 
to the universal human mind — Rcvernnce of 
God, Justice, Mercy. Benevolence, Verecitv. 
Chastity, &C In other, words nothing but 
what ss plainly incompatible with lave to God 
aud taOS to rr.an j vriog each «■:• the te 



.ng practices " 

We may advert to yet another great evil, 
which, in the church order we have defined, 
must receive an effectual check. We mean 
Priestcraft. This grows out of a dependence 
on our fellow bemgs, as possessing superior 
means of Divine knowledge. In this depen- 
dence individual talents arc neglected, and 
individual responsibility is sought to be trans- 
ferred to the person or persons on whom the 
dependence rests. And this dependence gives 
power to those on whom it is placed, and 
makes those who place it easy subjects for its 
exercise. In this way a large proportion of 
the professors of religion become, to a great- 
er or less extent, the dupes of priestcraft. 
The same effect takes place, to a certain ex- 
tent, among Friends, as the consequence of 
rccommcding ministers, as it is called; that is 
s 'ting them apart, by a particular process, as 
ministers, of the Society. By this practice— 
which is a virtual oidination— the idea natur- 
ally obtains, that those ihus distinguished 
have nearer access to the Divine mind — su- 
perior means of Divine knowledge, than oth- 
ers. This leads to an improper dependence 
on them, and a consequent neglect ou the 
part ofthe other members of their own spir- 
itual gifts. Here injury is sustained, both by 
the preachers and those who thus deter to 
them; and by the non-employment of mdivM- 
nal gifts, in the inculcation of moral and re- 
ligious truth, the body and community at. 
large suff'-r incalculable loss. 

Intimally connected with the right use of 
the gifts oV every member, is the mode of 
conducting assemblies for spiritual cdifoaiiou 
and improvement— of which we will here, say 
a word. A greeab'y to 1 he facts before stated , 
and the objects of religious association ,e»ery 
accountable human betug stands in ; uch a 
relation to the Divine Mind, as to be priv-i!- 
co-cd to receive, from the Fountain of. Wis- 
dom and Goodness, immediate mMruetion 
relative to all the duties of life, pe-.sonai and 
»pl Th- re c. nsibili v inr 'spocttojh sg 



BOONTGN, Oct. 35th. 1S48. 

To «v'// right, to do right, for its own sakt 
;s Benevolence, is Religion, is Christian. ly. 



At the earnest solicitations (if soom sincere 
arid devoted friends of liberty, we have de- 
voted most of our columns to the present po- 
luicai canvass. 

We could do this because our doct.ine is 
"principles not men," <oul under present cir- 
eumst;mc>s we can go for the Buffalo Plat- 
foruK We expect however, that, even the 
'•free soil Party will make upward progress. 
VVe may perhaps at some future time make a 
more ful exposition of our views and feelings 
in relation' to these matters. 



THK MEETING AT MORRI STOWN. 

This nveling was held according to notice 
on the lfltH. inst. in the Court House, There 
was a good representation of Free Soil men 
from various parts of the County which with 
I he Cass and Taylor men present filled the 
]ar"-a court room. As we anticipated we 
«verc treated with very gentlemanly courtesy 
by Sheriff t'arrand, and vwsh we could Ba\ 
the same of all the other whigs of Moristown 

Wj had an audience before which much 
good m grit have been accomplished for out 
fcahsSj but we regret to say that the speech 
of Mr. Butler a great dispointment to the 
free soil men of Morris Couuty. It was not 
what we expected, norwhat we had reason 
to expect. Me made some very apropiate re- 
marks upou slavery-extension, but hissneech 
in the main consisted of the mostuivxnect'Ml 
an 1 unmerited laudations ofGen Tay'o-, the 
great champion of a slavery extension war; 
,an I the moat biitar denunciations of Geu.Cass 
Hi proved to those p-esent that the whole 
length and breadth; the height and depth of 
hi; fre?-soilism, was no'h nj more nor less 
thm hatred to Gen Cass. 

We did not expect so strong an effort mad- 
to prove lint the country wou'd be real'v safe 
in the hand 12 of a man who has proved by aN 
i'i oat every act an I circumstance of his life 
the, most tineomnrcmi.-ing opponent of the 
free soil doctrine ; while on the ether hand 
under the rule of the particular object of his 
personal dis'ik.\ a'l would be. ruin. 

W" expected, and harl reason to expect 
from Mr-, l> Uler, an honest exposition and 
defence of the free soii doctrine 'and its cn- 
<lidates, bUt were sorely disappointed. We 
did not. ask or expect him to denounce Gen. 
T.tvlor, but wa do think that the extravagant 
praises of th* man might have been left for 
his own mad worshipers to sing. 

The Whigs fe't that his speech did more 
for them than th^v could have done for them-: 
.«H'.">s, and emboldened th"tn at the close to 
make so much confusion and uproar as <o 
9 rhake u'eless ill further pro seed' nj* 1 * and the 
mating was adjourned witbont finishing t' n " 
business. A prominent Whicr declared. that 
' h? w mi l <rive ten dollars to have Mr But- 
1 -r ennie the-e a^ain" and another said, h<> 
would i;i v > him tw»ntv dollars to come to 
Boonton an I m ik? such a speech 

Mr. Butler sta'ed in his sn^ech that the 
condition of the Ameriefin tdav-e was mnch 
better than that of the Africans in their own 
country, and in this sense, he declared that 
"Southern Slavery wa« an improvement up- 
on African Barbarism." 

Whv th'en oppose, the ^tension of slavery 
if this b? true, and wear;: in fivorof porres', 
let us not oppose lh*s infro taction of slaverv 
into Mexico and Ca!i'"rirni i; 1-t us r^n'-al the 
Oregon bill and the Missouri Compomise and 
let all Nations call away their Cruisers on 
the coa<t of Africa, or loal th°ir v -ssjls uith 
its inhabitants an! stear for Arrer'ca. 

Vyeadviss the Free soil m m o"N >w Jer- 
sey to let Mr. B.ilv stay in New Yor':. 
Men who are moved by no higher an I more 
noble impulse than personal spite, will not be 
very likely to help on the causj of Patriot 
ism or Philanthropy. 

Wo may be thought severe but oar inJig 
nation is just. A Considerable effort and ex- 
pense had been made to get up a free soi 
meeting in Morriatovvn. T > hold such a 
meeting there among our m >st inveterate op- 
ponents^was no s nail trial, and Mr. Bitler'a 
unfaithfulness was more than we are bound 
. ' •> endure in silence. 

We speak thj sentiimn's of the free soil 
men who atte r.ded the niec-'tn*, and are 
home nit in w' at we lave said b ■ the tcs- 
tituoi y of I oth whigs and democrats. 



Proviso. 

Among the reasons given by the 
Wbigs in favor ofTaylor, none are 
'tiore false and ridiculous than the- 
tssertion that lie is favor of the 
Wi] mot Proviso. Tn addition to 
what we have already said i n this 
point, we give the following. 

The Charleston News— aDem. paper,says 
that "Gen. Taylor should be supported b< 
Southern Democrats in preference to Cass 
because his nomination was made by South 
em and Western men almost exclusively, hi 
receiving the vote of every Southern state 
and their influence will co!or and control hi. 
administration." 

Eastern (Miss.) Sentinel says: "Cass to 
be sut'e avows himself friendly to slavery, 
but Tayler points to his SSO slaves." 

Richmond ( Va,)Times says ; "If any Gen 
Ueman iu Massachusetts has a letter fron 
Taylor ass'-nting to the Wilmot Proviso it i: 
a Forgery." 

Georgia Enquirer says: "The silliest bi 
most senseless thing we have noticed for a 
long time is, the ;aterhpt to make Gen. Tay- 
lor a Wilmot Proviso man. As no sober or 
sensible man believes this charge, we shal, 
pay no attention to it. We dismiss it as a 
slander which refutes itself. No tnatt< rhow 
often it may be charged — the only answer it 
deserves, is silent contempt " 

The Matagorda (Texas) Tribune says . 
"if G n. Taylor be elected, our peculiar in- 
stitution — slavery — will find safety and pro- 
tection beneath his giant arm and eagle eye." 

This appears to be the. pervading opinion 
of the whole South. One of the resolutions-a- 
dopted by a Mass Meeting at Charleston, on 
July 20th, says of Gen Taylor, — "We know 
that on this great, paramount, and lea ling 
question of the Sou.h, he is of as — he is v:ith 
us — he is for z/s." 

Semtor Davis, ofMissippi, a son-in-law of 
Gen. Taylor, (and who certainly should be 
acquainted wit hisopininns,) -'ays, — "He con- 
siders the Proviso unconstitutional." 

At :» meeting in Fairfax County, Va., h» id 
on the 17th August, Mr. Haskell, of Tenn., 
was questioned by John T. Barbour, Esq., as 
to Tavlor's opinion of the Wilrnot Proviso. 
Elaskill replied, that Gen. Taylorwould ho'd 
the Proviso to be hastv and inconsiderate lez- 
isl ition, and would veto it. 

In a recent speech in Congress, Mr. Flour- 
ney, of Virginia, a Whig member, said, -"The 
agitation oi the save question should be kept 
out of the party contests of the d i y - The 
Whigs have agreed lo abandon it, so for as 
this canvass is concerned." 

Several months ago, (previous to the close 
of the War,) the Legislature ofMissippi ap- 
poin'ed a committee of five to vist Gen. Tay- 
lor, wi h an invitation to visit their StaK 

Col. Boon* 1 , one of the committee, has pub- 
lished a detailed statement of the interview, 
in which he savs, — u Gen. Taylor expressed 
himself in favor of the. war, and of pronsecut- 
>n^ it until we could o'>tain tentorial idemnity. 
llz also said, the South ounht never to sub- 
mit to thi Wilmot Proviso. " 

G^n. Taylor himself says: — "The action 
of Congress should be respected so far as re- 
lates to Tariff, Currency, and Internal im- 
provements;" but the question of slavery ex- 
tension, he "reserves forth ■ exercise of bis 
constitutional prerogative." 

But what n >ed of all this labor to prove 
that he is in favor of the Proviso, let Gen.' 
Taylor only say so, let him write i(, put he 
name to it and send it out to the world, am' 
that will settle all disputes about it. 



kiOKKIS i 01 M Y 

TIO.V 



. o:\Vi 



This Meeting was held according to pu' - 
ic Notice in the Court llou-eat Morrsiow 
Wednsday Oct. ISth at 1 o'clock P. M. 

Abram Magie was appointed chairman at < 
John Grimes <S'ec. 

It was then 

Risoked, That the conven'.ion proceed !■ 
nomination of candidates for the Legiid.itur- 
and county officer.-. 

The following nominations were tin t 
made. 

For Assembly. 

Benjamin B. Griswold. 
William Conkling 
John D. Mills, 
C t ot go W. Eaten. 

For County Clerk 
Nicholas F. Cook 
The Meeting then adjorned to half past i 
o'c'ock. 

3 O'clock P. M. 

The Meeting was organized by callinf 
Charles Mathews to the chair and the meet- 
ing was addressed by Benjamin F.Butler Esq 
of New York. 

The following R^so'ution proposed by 
lacob L. Brother:on was unanimously a- 
dopted. 

Resolved That Congress has no more pow- 
er to make a slave than to make a king. 

Therefore any efforts made by congress tc. 
Creatg, Ex end or perpetuate either is a«li 
Republic in, anli-Democatic and anti-Chris 
tian: which we are bound to, and w ill resist. 

The Fourth District Convention -was 
held in Morris'own the 18th. October. 

Charh s Math ws was chosen Chairman 
and M. Mint >n Sec, 

It was then unanimously Resolved that 
JOHN W. STOUT 
of New Brunswick the candidate for Con- 
gress in fourth District. 



Horace fireely, after Standing out 
against Taylor for several months, 
has at last raised the bloody Flag. 
It is certainly very mortifying in 
deed to see a zealous friend of peace 
and liberty advocating the eleva- 
tioti of a large slaveholder and the 
champi ni of a slavery-extension 
war. W e are sorry he is not more 
consistent. It is an uphill busincs- 
for him and he acknowledges it i^ 
only to keep out Cass. This is a 
very poor excuse for Horace, he 
should blush to think of it: but it 
shows how much he really thinks 
of Gen. Ta vlor. 

After all though, he is vastly bet- 
ter and more honorable, than the 
company he keeps. Rend the fol- 
lowing. 

From the N Y. Tribune. 

'THE GREAT ISSUE.' 

Let what may be the result of the pending 
election, Hi*k>r, will honor the independent 
free soil movement as one of the noblest which 
our age has witnessed. It not destined to 
succeed, in the vulgar acceptation ofsucces.- 
it cannot elect a President, an I may not ever, 
a Govonor nor Electoral Ticket lA its owi 
unaided strength ; bu' it is destined surely 
lo accomplish the chief end of its being, b\ 
baring forever the New Terrimities of th' ( 
Union against the irrup'ion of SI ivery. No 
by electing its own candidates, but by con 
straining those of both the great parties t< 
range them-elves, however reluctently, oi 
; he side of free soil, will its triumph be a- 
• hieved. Had it taken the fie'd one year car- 
li' r, Gen. Cass would nev. rbave written th( 
Nicholson letter, nor D. S. Dickinson clun- 
to-the standard of Slavery-Extension un i 
driven from it by the defection of Messrs. 
Benton and Houston, Senators from Slav 
States. Had it sprung to life years earlier, 
it would h ve saved the nation the thousand: 
of liv. s and millions of treasure wasted ii 
Mexico. It in essentia ly a noble movemci 
■ batever the faults of its directors. Tlx ■ 
IB"y have committed main errors, hut v 
woold ns s^on reproach th»- Apostle Pa*d ft i 
the stoning of Step' en ns- Mr. Van Duron ! 
any of his by-go+te faults in ref.-reutv 
slavery. 



[F.om the Boston C ronotype.] 

"Last Letter." 

How or where we got the fol- 
owmg letter, we art- not aulhci iz- 
'd to tell. W e do not v/uch for^ 
is authenticity, bv t the style and 
houghts are"vcry like" the respect- 
■d author. It is certain. Hint, ii' 
lie (uneral did not write it. his 
iews upon the great tnpics of t! e 
lay, are therein lucidly set forth. 

Baton Rouge, July 1, 1848. 
Sir: In answer to your favor, asking my 
■pinions, 1 beg leave to say: 

r l hat 1 have no"e on the subject and don't 

nean to have. It is enough to say, that, if 
Jiecltd, 1 shall he another Washington — a 
.e^lar out-anu-ou'er — and will follow the i 

ustrious lights of John Adams and Thomas 
-efieison J go for the Presidency, and will 

ake a nomina.ion from anybody. I am now 

he standard bean r i f the natives, the whigs 
>ome of the old f« deralis s, a few'semi-aholit- 

onists, and here and there a loco. 

As for the Wilmot Proviso — bah! Hav 
en't 1 two hundred prime niggers? Don't I 
.aise twelve hundred bales of cotton, annual- 
ly? / v. not at my interests with the South? 

t'ell them fellows — no you needn't tell tn< m 
anything — but l< t me and old "White> " get 

nio the Presidency, and I'll give 'em Jessie, 
1 tell you. 

Aboat that tariff, I dou't know what it is. 
[ mean to ask Bliss, when he com< s. It isn't 
a new kind of aitillery, is it? 

I hope yon won't publish this letter,, as it 
mit;hi conflict with some I have written be- 
fore. If you w rite again don't forget ;o 
pay the postage. Your "strictly orthodox' 1 
friend., 

ZACH. TAYLOR. 
P. S. I have shown the above to my old 
horse Whitey. He don't interpose his heitji 
to it. He says all he v. ants is to get his no»^ 
into the public crib. The old fellow ha 
been on sho t allowance lately, on account ok 
hat postage bill. 



Gen. Taylor at Home! — Against Rree 
^oil! — Mr. Benjamin, one of the Whig dec 
tors for th" Stale of Louisiana, affirmed, in ; 
speech at Baton Rouge, Gen. Taylor's cm 
residence, that the old G< n. was "all right' 
upon the slavery question, adding, "i can as- 
sure my fellow citizens here that Taylor wili 
oramptly veto any thinq like the Wiln.ot Pio- 
ciso. Tke inteicsts of tho South are safe in 
his hands." 

Such a statement made at Gen. Taylor't 
own door, by a political friend of position unA 
♦sponsibilily, ought to be conclusive with L't 
min Jed men who Would not see freedom sa 
rificed to party. 

For ours Ives we never had a doubt on the 
snhject. — - Campaign of Freedom. 



C^F BEE SOIL MEETING IN ECO 
TON. — This Mectihg was held on Rfitcri 
in the afternoon and evening a> d address 
by Dr. Kogers of Clinton a d H. N. Corgi 
Esq. of Newark with excellent eflVct. The 
i dresses were ■ xo edingly inti resting a^d ioJ 
4ructive. One of them had been a d inocrat 
ind the other a Whig and had left their old 
parties on account of tin ir corru| tions and a- 
landonment of principle, and I. ave no desire 
o get back in'o them agam. 

These are the men to do ep the »otk M 
.'ree soi 1 only give them a chance. 

Mr. Comrer is to speak at Rockaway thu 
lav of this wi ek. 



{!e>>Hard stories are told in the papers 
bout Gen. Cass, how he has fattened o at tl 
iiiblic expense, receiving several »alaresfi( |t 
he i'overnment at the same time, with ei 
tra allowances &c. 

This is probahl'yall true. It is not nefl 
•s-nry for us to labor to prove thai he is ih 
avor of s'avery-extension for he hn* said ho 
vould veto the Wilmot Proviso. Thisisen- 
) ugh to satisfy all Free Soil men a9 lo his 
laims to tlieir votes. His contemptible 
ervility to the interests of the South deservej| 
ur unfeigned eon'empt. and the more so b#| 
•use it all looltsloword the ')>etty inter' s'81 
* his i ••.••••« pocket. Aft' r >> 1 1 he like to I aft* 
man s.r.; wl.al he will do, then we k'.ow 
iw I > a 't. Gen. (lass has settled thequc«* 
n ofh's ow n m»ri!s linns If; h.. I. as I !'' 
j no room to doubt. 



I'/M SOIL flOMINATiO 

IARTIN VAN BUREN. 
Of New York. 

For Vice-President 
CHARLES F. ADAMS 
Of Massachusetts. 

For Electors. 
Alexander Wurts, 
AVxander 11. Wallis, 
James Howey 
Edward I). Weld, 
David Ryersoii, 
Jeptha B. Munn, 
Samuel Baldwin. 

For Congress 5th. District 

John Stout 
Of New Brunswick. 



• " ' '-•> fer l.arb- r end river 

{(').) FREE CI^S'F TO ACTUAL SETTLF.rS, TN 
M.V- Qt'ANTlES OF THE IfBLIG LANDS. 

(7.) A present "IJsmff adequate to fher'ajc- 
i ■>» of thej pul lio d bt. and (op il.ttconuf. 
ical exp nces of the government 

14. Resolved, I I at we ins -ribe uponoi. 
■niv r. "FREE SOIL, FREE SPEACB 
V REE LABOR. AND FREE MEN." an< 
nder t will fight on, and fight ever, until i 
•iumph of victo.j! shall reward nir cxer 

>tiu " 
v 'IIS. 



Platform of Free 
Democracy. 

F"R the convenience of reference, we ab- 
breviate and arrange i.i order the princi- 
ples of this pla'form, as contain- d in the more 
formal stvle cf the resolutions : — 

1. The Conventi' n is declared a union of 
Freemen, who, forgeting a 1 past political 
difere*'ees. combine against the anqrcss'ow 
of the Slave Power, and to secure Free Soil 
for Free -Men. 

2. The two political parties are disbanded 
by the late National conventions, by he sac- 
rifice of their principles, and i heir subservien- 
cy to slav< ho'ding dictation; and neither ot 
their ca didates can be supported without c 
sacrifice of consistency, duty, Mid s'lf-respecl. 

3. The people are assembled, rem"mbprinij 
the example of the f there of the Republic. 

pitting their truzt in. Gndfo: (heir triumph', and 
invoking his guidance, plant themsdves upon 
the JYatioicil platform of Freedom, in opposit- 
ion to the Sectional platform of slavery. 

4 Slavery in the Stat s depends upon 
Slate laws alone, which the General Gov- 
ernment cannot repeal, and for which it is not 
responsible. 

5. The "o'icy of the Government, as shown 
by the JteTe.son Proviso, and other acts, has 
been, not to extend, nati nalize, or encour- 
ag •, hut t • limit, localize, and Hiscouragt 
silvery ; aid to this policy the governmen! 
should return. 

6. The Constitution was or lain d to pro- 
mite th a g 'neral welfare and *ecore thelites 
sings of Libe ty, and denies to the govern- 
in 'lit all power to d a p-ive anv person oi lite, 
liberty, or property without legal process. 

7. Congres has no more power to make a 

slave thin a king, or to establish slavery than 
a monarchy. 

8. It is the duty of the government to re- 
1 >a> •> itself from all responsibility for the ex 
lstence or the ex ension ot slaveiy. 

9. Theonlvsaf q-'pfevsating 'Ir* ex'en- 
s'ii ofslavry into Free ter itory, is to pro 
hib't its exi^t'.n:.' therj by ait of Congress. 

10 We accept • he issue of die Slave Pow 
er, more slaves, and mo-e slave territory, an 
'■ur final answer is — NO more slaves, — N( 

SLAVE TERRITORIT V. 

1 1 The (ate Compromise Biil of the Sen 
ate i< no compromise, hut a surrender 0 f oui 
rights ; and the people are warned not tosuf 
fer their representatives to betray the m , J 
a v/ f trther compro:n ; scs with slavery are mar ' e- 

TUEV MUST BE REPEALED. 

12. We demand Fr edom and Fr e Insti 
tutions for Or. gon, for California, an.l New 
Mexico. 

13. On other questions of policy, the fol 
lowing principles are advanced: 

( 1 .) Cheap postage for the people. 

(2.) Retrenchment of the expenses an 
ptM-onag - of the government. 

13.) Ah,) it : on of all unnecessary offi< 
an ! salaries. 

(4.) The. election of all civil effver-; 
reed by t!.e people. 



THE CASTING VOTE. 

The whig speech makers all over (he Free 
States, from Daniel WebsH r downwared, are 
isserting that Martin Van Buren gave his 
casting vole in the Senate for a law, autoriz- 
ing postmasters to search the mails and sto| 
all anti-slavery publications. This charge \t 
utterly false, and tho^e that make it knoxo i 
to be. so. No s ich law was ever passeJ, an( 
theref re Mr. Van Buren could never havt 
vote! tor it, as he cuild only vote in theca3e 
of a tie. 

it i< well known that a bill in order to be- 
come a law mu-t pass through three separate 
readings, and can only become a law af er i 
has received a majority at its third reading. 
Now Mr. Van Buren on'y gave his fasting 
vote on the second reading of the Bill, whicl 
members oft n do through courtessy to the 
friends of the bill, knowing that s ich a vot« 
cannot make it law. The bill refered to on 
its third rending was rejected by a large ma- 
jority, many voting against it who voted in 
favor of i he second reading. So much for 
Whig honesty in th : s matter. Dotheycome 
any nearer the truth in other matters. 1 * 

$5*1 know that he [Martin Van Buren] is 
opposid upon principle to the annexation of 
Tlxss. — John Quiey Adams. 



NATIONAL REFORM NOMINATION. 

FOR PRESIDENT. 

GERR1T SMiTiL 
Of New York, 

. - foji vi< e-phes'dext 
CHARLES C. FOOTE 

Of Michigan- 
, "Land Monopoly I would dTsfavor, whett- 
ir on. the part of G vernment or individuals. 
Hence I would have the pulric lands thrown 
open to actual settlers, free c fcost. I would 
add under this head lhat EVERY MAN'S 
HOMESTEAD SHOULD BE INALIEN- 
ABLE, except by his own 'consent," — Get- 
rit Smith. 

The New Jersey Stafef National Reform 
^onventio was held in Newark on the I2th. 
nst. and the following e'ectoral Ticket was 
adopted. 

Moses Jaques. 
G rover C. Stewart 
Wi'liam Heighten 
Richard Corieli 
James Law 
F. Guest 
Jam-s Porter. 



The Tobacco Alma-iac for 1839, Published 
dy Fowler and W, lis 131 Nassau St, N.Y. 
ii a document that every person should have, 
particularly all users of tobacco — We give 
the following extracts. 

A p' or farmer ( as relat d t o me recently) 
with but one cow aad horse, found them trou- 
bled with lice. A b nevolen' friendgave him 
a bottle of tobacco, as he had heard that it 
would dist o-y the lice at one. 'I he owner 
hanked him for the article, and poured it 
along the back and tail of the ho.-<e and cow 
iccording t > directon- Tliey soon showed 
iigus of weakness, and lay down$ one sur- 
vived six hours, and the other about twelve- 
:o the asto ishrnent and grief of the owner 
and hi- friend. 

An in lividual residing in the cily of New 
Y., who trains& speculates inr'ogsfora live- 
ihood, informed me that he thought on:: of 
l s most va'uable dogs did not appear ven 
veil a''dc ncludtd he would give hi'ii ai. 
me'.ic. Consequently, he toakid a cigar ii 
r 'er to al.tain the juice for the above purpose; 
urt b»*fore the dog h -d the dose on I is stom 
ich one minut - it was dead, which great ; 
urprised his mast r. 



{Jt^ithink of Gon. Taylor very much m 
te seems to think of himself. -Daniel Wel- 

x'er. 

1 greatly doubt my qualifications to dis- 
diaij;e the duties properly.-- Gen. Taylor. 

We publis'i in another column an abstract 
jf the Buffilo Platform, will some good whij 
urnisfa us with the Philadelphia Platfoim 
>Ve should liku to publish lhat too. 

FACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER that 
VORDS.—Gen. Ca-s says he will veto th 
Vilm t Proviso, and go fo/ ; slavery. Get 
' m lor ha" alwavs worked^ for slavery, foiiol 
<r it, an ' oviih aho LZ^X) slaves. Ger-.Ca 
•• "ii- ex, but G n. Ta lor '■'never surrende r 
ions wpenk louder than words. 

T ,k a, out I Taylor and w! a' kind of 
a i hav. yon,- ta^ ■ v. fr m.Cass and whu 
iv. nd v i all animal l.uve j ou. 



Secret Societies. 

11 No man lijshtcth a candle awl 
piitlet.li it under a bmhel" 

'■Have no fellowship loithtlw un- 
f ruiiful woiks of darkness." 



"The New Inki '.tion Service. — ,Weur 
• lerstand that many of our brethren have an 
idea that the new service is yet to be submit- 
ted to the Tents for their approval before it 
.oes into effect. We will just say that this 
a mistake. The services have been adopted 
by the Huh Tent and ordered to go in'o op- 
eration on or before the 1st. of February, and 
as soon as they are sent to the Tents by the 
H. C S. w-id become law, and must take ef- 
fect by the 1st. of Feb. 1849.— JV. Y. Wash- 
ingtonian. 

There you h ive it g3nt'em"n- Rfchabi'es, 
Republicanism with a veng ance. You have 
"Othtng to do but to- knock under - the "High 
Tent" commands and you mu-t obey. 

Therefore take it cheerfully, manner not 
but like good peac -able citizens submit and 
swallow the pill. It is no doubt for the 
"Good of the Order," hut don't call ^our or- 
der a Republican order. 



i'KE SliAvK TKAOE. / 

The EiiSi.h and Foreign Anli-f'. 
Reporter fer Sept. gives a summary \ ■ v. 
lum'erous documents laid before IV: 
»y commissioners at Sierra Lecne, Ha> ; 
Tape of Guod H ope j Brazil &c. mb-ch si 
Wat the Slave Trade is not diminisl in 
troves '.\hat .Abolitionists hav I&n»£ 
he only way to stop this trade is to si ui 
the market.. As long as there is a m= 
open for the sale cf slaves, they will be d| 
— Avarice will prompt men surmount 
s aclesiii the way of this trade. 

Lord Hovvden, late British Mini?! 
Brazil, under date Rio de Janeiro, 9(1] 
: 1-848, makes tire following statement ir 
tibn to the- Slave Trade during- lite \ 
','847; _ 

"1 have the honor to inform your Lrirti 
that, according to the best estimatioi, l^H 
been able to make above 60,000 Afrie 
have been imported as slaves into Bi 
ring the year 1847 * * * never : ,uflfc 
slave dealers so perfected all the apr r. :?r 
c?s and appliances of their vile trade ss 
present; never have they so org:in,.- 
whole range of shore signals from St. Ki 
fine's to Baliia, nor established such i 
■ties for landing their cargoes as now."' • 

The Reports sla'e that the slavt . '■ 
captured or destroyed in 1S46 were as 
lows. 

By the British Cruisers. 47. 
" French "• ' 12. 

" Portuguese " 7. 
" American " 2. 
So it would seem that even the Port', 
are doing much more to suppress this 
than the Americans. 

The following shows lhat the slave t 
is on the increase notwithstanding the C< 
zation Society says so much abce.t a! 
ing this traffic. W Slaves ~ 

ted from Africa.. Carried in'.o | 

<* In 1840 64,114. 30,000. 
« 1841 75,097. 
" 1842 28,400. 
" 1843. 05,062. 
« 1S44 54,102. 
" 1S45 :16,758. 
" 184G 76,117. 
" 1847 84,356. 



AN E X T R A C T. 

Secret Societies produce a mental slavery' 
That man is a slave whose mind is not tree 
it is in. vain that he miy enjoy "light and life 
ind the use of his own limbs," if his soul is 
in bon.lag?. Hj who. is bound to secrecy on 
:ertain subjects, and to one class of Pillow 
nen, bv unknown ties, which do not exist be- 
ween hini and others, is unreasonably a 
•lave. Other m^n, men of discordant prin- 
:iplrs and views, have power over his fjcu> 
ie- - , and in proportion to his subjection. to the 
issociation., he is in lor.dage, and becomes a 
nere, perhaps, a dis honorable machine. 



Free Soil. 



A Free Soil Meeting is to be held on S;it- 
dny evening! of this week,(Oct. 2Sth.) ii 
e Free CI inch, Eonhton. 
Eugene Cassei ly lisq. of New York is « x- 
C ed 'o address the mee ieg. 
Lni'ie> and L r,, :i !• tin n of all p rtic" arc is 
, i.ed to a: tend. 



16,000. 
14,200. 

30,50, . 
26,000. 
23,7Q0. 
52,600. 
57,^06. 



The dilference beteen the two co' 
shows the number that were carried ?n!6 
Spanish Colonies and the United S 
perhaps a few other places,aad those that 
in the passage. 

The reports also state that from 1* 
1S40 the number exported from Africa 
% 18,500 

444.046 since 1840 

1462,5465 

The number of slaves embarked frc:n 
African coast for America since 17S8 is 1 ,• 
546. no doubt as many more have been ! 
in Africa in capturing them". 

We regret that we have not room to ; 
all thermicie from the Reporter, we thi 
would torn the attention of honest men : 
abolition of the root of all this evil, 
ing short of the total abolition of shiT,, 
stop this infamous slave trade. 

A Model-. Town. — In Eloomfield, 
says an. exchange paper, tlere are 250 v 
All' but two for Van Buren and Adan : 
twoAvho do not are equally divided bet\ 
Cass and Taylor. 

Another. -Cheshire, in Berks, Ma«s, tl 
.■orated John Leland's town, contains 
.'oters. The*y are — for Taylor 0, Cass 2. 
Buren 258. It is thought that before 
t;«» the Cass strength will be divid-cd, i 
fay'or will hardly iiold his own ! 

^ FOR SALE AT THIS OF 
riiE Liberty Almakac for 
Viend of freedom siiould be xvilho 
llent collection of valuable 

ALSO, PHRENOLOGIC 

URE aiid TOBACCO 



F-'om the Young America. 
KEEP IT BEFORE THE PEOPLE. 

BY DUGANNE. 

Keep it before the People, 

That the earth was made for man! 

That Flowers were strown, 

And fruits were grown,, 
To bless and never ban : 

That sun and rain, 

And coin and grain, 
Are yours and mine, my brother — 

Free g'fis from heaven, 

And freely given, 
To one as well another! , 

Keep it before the People, 
That man is the image of God, 

Whose limbs nor soul 

Ye may not control 
With shackle, or shame, or rod! 

We may not be sold, 

For silver or gold — 
Neither you nor I, my brother — 

For freedom was given, 

By God from Heaven, 
To one as well another ! 

A rep it before the people, 

That famine and crime, and wo, 

Forever abide 

Still side by side, 
With luzury's dazling show ; 

That Lazarus crawls 

From Dives' hulls, 
And starves at his gate my brother 

Yet life was given 

By God from heaven, 
To one as well as another! 

Keep it before thcpeoqle, 

That the laboror claims his meed, 

The right of soil. 

And the right to toil 
From spur and bridle freed: 

The right to bear 

And the right to slurs 
With you and me, my brother — 

Whatever is given 

My God from heaven, 
To one as well as another! 



SELECTED. 

Ye who know and do the tight, 
Ye who cherish honor bright, 
Ye who worship love and light, 

Chose your side to-day, 
Succor Freedom, now jou can, 
Voting for un honest man ; 
Let not Sla very's blight and ban, 

On your ballot lay. 

Boasts your vote n<> higher aim, 
Than between two bints of shame 
That would stain our country's fame, 

Just to chose the least? 
Let it sternly answer no! 
Let it straight for Freedom go; 
Let it swell the winds that blow 

From the North and east. 

Do your duty He will aid ; 

Dare to vote as you kav& prayed ; 

Who e're conquered, wbile his blade 

Served his open foes. 
Right established would you see? 
Feel that you yourselves are free ; 
Strike for that which nught to be — 

God will bless the blows. 



"he men that'robby law are as truly theive:^ 
men that rob by violence. The gov 
that tax the people for any other oh 
people's good, are a band <> 
lie/orm Almanac. 



(k*p It is better to rely upon our own jut!;. 1 
nent, in maUers of conscience, than to tru? 
o the 1 arums' and ability of the gnatmen- 
;o termed— of the world. We may be wi 
ing to trust a doctor in disease, or a cirpeii 
:er in house building ; but not so with que* 
:ions of conscience. No man has the ngl 
o let his fellow — though he may be unchal 
lenged for goodness of heart and deepness < 1 
nind — decide what may be l is duty in j 
:noral matter. We object not to interchang 
if thought — to hot discussion, if \ou pleas* 
f it be rightly tempered ; but we contend ft> 
independence of thought anlacion. Let i 
nan make right his pole-star, and we fea 
not that discussion will lead him astray. I 
< in the absence of this that men frequent! 
lecorne indifferent to their moral and socia 
luties ; and hence our ministers are reliei 
■iport in moral diseases, as our physicians an 
in physical. We are notopp sed to learnin' 
■>r sound doctrine, but we believe that ques- 
tions of morality do not requirejnuch learn- 
ing or doctrine to render them ch ar. Coi. 
science, that monitor that God has imp!sinte< 
in every man, will surely lead him in th> 
right path, if he be inclined to follow her. 
What we would nv>st desire to guard again.*' 
is the id' a that, by surrounding our < Ivrv 
with sound doctrinal harriers, we are g a-d 
inz and securing ihe heart from the attacks 
of Evil. Let the heart be filled with L»v« 
and it will sus ain the head-- but the head 
can never i-us'ain the heart. 

Some one has said, "The only High 
Schools are those devoted to th- education o 
the heart." Common Schools, we think, 
might profitably pursue the same studies. 



THE LIBERTY ALMAN \C FOR 
1849 is just pub'ished by the American and 
Foreign Anti Slav, ry Society, and is for sa'e 
by Wm. Harn-d, 61 John st. N. Yo k, at 
$3 per 100 copies, 50 cents a dozen, 6 cents 
single. It contains 48 pages of closely print- 
ed matter, and is more valuable tha'i any 
heretofore published. It is one that just 
suits the times, and should be in the posses- 
sion of every one that desires to have a ready 
access to important statislicson the. Mexican 
war, slavery, eJec ions, &c , with a great 
amount of useful information. No other 
documen' contains more valuable information 
for the same money. 



S^THE WATER CURE JOURNAL 
and HERALD OF REFORMS. — This is 
a monthly Journal of 32 pages, edited by 
loel Shew M. D., at one dollar a year. It is 
devoted to the Water Cure and all that ap- 
pertains to health, contains much interest- 
ing and useful matter, and should be read by 
'^very one who considers health of anv val- 
ue and is ignorant of the true value of water. 
We do not believe that water will cure every 
hing, or that it should be used at the exclu- 
sion all other things as remedial agents; but 
we do believe that its usefulness is very little 
inderstood, and wish this Journal may have 
i large circula'ion. It is published by Fow- 
lers and Wells, 131 Nassau Street N. Y. 



(^PHRENOLOGY.— Phrenology is the 
Science of mind, and is a most interresting 
md profitable study. It is an excellent cure 
for superstition and ign ra 'ce,and should be 
nves'igated by everv well w^her of the hu- 
nan rac. Let all read the Phrenolog'cal 
lournal published nmn hly by Fowlers and 
Wells for one dollar a year, at 131 Nassau 
Street N. Y. 



{^PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANAC 
or 1849.— FOWLERS & WELLS of 131 
Vas-au Street, New York, have published 
ind have for sale at thnir office the Phreno- 
ogical Almanac for 184D. B -sides the 
jsual Calandar adapted to a'l latitudes in the 
U. S., it c.'n'ain*! a great amount of interr<-st- 
ng matter, with likenesses of v . ri us distin 
,'uished individuals illustrating the impor 
tahce Phrenology and Physiology intheirap- 
ilications to the various purposes of life. 

It is richly worth the price, and deserves 
> free circulation. 



WASHINGTON CITY, LTST. OF 
COLUMBIA 

;. bailey, editor; J. g. wh-ittieii, corres 

PONDING EDITOR. 
L. P. NOBLE PUBLISHER. 

The Leadi gp rposeofthis Journal is, the 
.iscussiou of the qu- siton ol Sl.ivery, and 
he advocacy of the main principles of the 
..ib rty Party. Due attenti- n is given to So- 
ial and Political Questions of general im|or- 
ance; nor are the interests of pure Literature 
o be overh-oked. 

It aim-* to preserve a fathful record of im- 
portant events; of in ventions or discoveries 
.fleeting the progress of Society; ot pub k 
•••cuments of permanent >alue; and, during 
he sessions of Congress, to present such re- 
torts of its procedings as- w ill convey a cor 
r<ict idea not only of-^its action, but of its 
S iir.t and policy. The. debalas on the ex- 
•it.ing subjeet- of Slaverv and the Mexici- 
V'ar, expected to arise in the next Congre- 
-ill occupy a large shaie of its colu > ns. 

Arra gements have been made for extern 
ng and enriching its already valuble Depar 
nent of Home and Foreign Correspondence 

It is printed on a mammoth sheet, of th 
inest q alty, in the best s'yle, at $2 a yea 
mj/able in advance. 

The genorous spirit in which the Era Ik 
leen welcomed by the Publtc Pre-.-, an. 
.he very liberal patronage it has receive* 
this the first year of its existence, encourag- 
us to hope for large accessions to our sub- 
scription list. 

It is desirable that s bscrptions be forward - 
id without delay, so th it they may be ent r- 
d before the approaching Congr- ss. 

Address L. P. NOBLE, 

Publisher of the National Era, Washington. 
D. C. 

flc> AMERICAN MISSIONARY SO 
CIETY.— The office of this Society is s.t No 
61 John street New York. Its fi. j !d of 
operations has hith rto been princi -ally a- 
mong the fugitive slaves in Canada, and at 
the Mendi M ssion, in Africa, but ex- 
pects to exten I its field. It does not receive 
con'ribution* from slav.'holdrs, and is highly 
deserving <.f sup; ort from the ftitnds of 
Missions. 

Lewis Tappan of N. Y. is Treasurer. 



$f§>p sition and duties of the north 
witiiegard to Slavery. 

This is the the utle of a well written tract 
of24pag s, by Andrew P. Peabody, pub- 
published by Charles Whipp'e of Newbury- 
port. We might perhaps differ with the au- 
thor on some small points but as a whole it 
contains mil- h vnluable matter &. we wish 
every man in the free States might rend it. 
We are certain that no truly honest Norn- 
em man could read it and feel that he had 
nothing t«> do with slaverv. 

The facts set forth in this tract proves con- 
clus'vely that Slavery has had, and still does 
have much to do with us. But let it be read 
it will s -eak f>r itself. It is for Sale by Wm 
Harned 61 John Street N. Y. 



The Morris «Sc Essex Rail Road is 
now completed to Dover, and the cars run as 
follows : 

Leave New York f -r Dover — 

At 8 A. M. and 4 P. M. 
Leave Newark for Dover — 

At 8 3-4 A. M.and 4 3-4 P. M. 
Leave Dover for New York — 

At 6 1-4 A. M. and 1 1-2 P.M. 
Leave Morristown for New York — 

At 7 A. M. and 2 1-2 P. M. 
A stage runs twice a day from Boonton, 
meeting the cars at Denville both ways. 



Stockings. 

W r e advise all those wanting a 
superior article in the stocking line 
and feeling a desire to eneourne^ 
home manufacture, to call at ihc 
shop of John Jnques in lioonton 
where they will not fail to be ac- 
commodated. 



Ot>The abolition ol sla>ery in the Danisl 
Colonies took place the third of Juiy. 1848 



Judge Jay's Letter to Bishop IvE9.This 
h tier has been stereotype d and is tot Sale 
by WMiam Harned at the office of the A- 
merican & Foreign Anti-Slavery Saci< ty 61 
John- Street New York.. At $2,40 a hut.dred- 
3 cents single. Judge Jays writings need 
no recoinmendati' n. 



{Jt>"There must besomething wrong. ">4i$ 

When we think of the destructive progress 
that disease is making among human teeth, 
we feel certain that there is "something 
wrong,' ' 

"That's worth the findii-g out." 
As a great help in investigating this sub- 
ject, we l ave laying on «ur table a small 
book on the teeth by John Burdell, Dentist, 
published and tor sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau Street New York, which we 
•irnestly recommend to all those interested 
ind who should not be interested,) in the 
reservation of the teeth. It should be read 
y every body, particularly the young, 
'rice twelve and a ha'f cents. 

(jr^A Scripture Argument in favor of with- 
aw ing fellowship from church- sand Eccle- 
iastical Bodies tolerating Slaveholding a- 
nong them, by Rev. Silas McKeen of Brad- 
ord, Veimont; This is an excellent tract of 
ibout 40 pages. It is published by the A- 
nerican and Foreign Anti-Slav, ry Society 
md for sale by Wm. Harned, 61 John Street 
New York. 



^-CHEMISTRY, and its applicath n t» 
Physr. logy Agriculture and Commerce, hv 
Profes or L1EBIG, price 20 cents, published 
by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
Kork.— The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themseelv ° r 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, 6r 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
tor sale at th s office. These books should 
be l ead by eveiy friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 

sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is Of great importance t at a'l 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furni.-hes 
some valuable light on the subject. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
for sale at this Office. 

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT —Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published b\ lie New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 

ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An ass'-rtment ofAnti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office, among which are the fol- 
lowing : 

Memoir of Lovejoy. 

Emancipation in the West Indies, 

Anti-Slavery Record 3 vol., 

Slave's Friend 3 vol., 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

Slavery As It Is, 

Life of Granville Sharp, 

Jays Inquiry, 

Buxton on the Slave Trade, 
Rankins Letters, 
Jay's View, 

Narrative of Frederic Douglas*, 
Alton Riots & Alton Trials, 
Channing on Slavery, 
I'ouine's Picture of Slavery, 

Mott's Sketch) s. 



UDETY T It \CTS— for sale 

it this oflice. 
Slavery and th-e Stove trade at 

lh< i\atit»ri s Capital, 
Facts for the IVople, 
Catechism ou the Mexican war.. 






Truth invites full ami free Discussion ; Error 



■ 6 from Mi 



Vol. 3. 



Saturday, Febijarv 



9 JL 'w^'iJ * 



No. 10. 



THE IN'EW JERSEY 



WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY < 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor, j 
Boonton, Morris County, New Jevscy. 



T E R M S : 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 numbers 

,-) copies to one address for one dollar. 

A!! bSmitiurd' > icft* must be post paid. 

AJ.OTHSX Bi.7iS$rpS AMONG 
THE FRIENDS. 

It scorns lbs; a !:m,. ■ j' i-ii:- > o£ the g?n- 
nessse year! ,• niectlngjof Frit nils belt! a con- 
ference at l'\inningio 'N. Y. in Oct. last, and 
come to the conclusion that no discipline but 
the Bible, and no guide but the Divine Spirit 
is necessary for the preservation and perfec- 
tion of a religious meeting or of religious- 
society. The following is the manifesto of 
this conference of Reformers. We publish it 
by request, and reccommend it to the careful 
consideration of all the friends of reform. 
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE MAY 
C 0 M E : 



Belovf.d Brothers and Sisters : — 

Having, pursuant to adjournment, in the 
Cth month last, again met, tojjconsider what 
measures it will be right to iidopt, that the 
blessings of Religious Society fianv be placed 
within the reach of ail, our mines have been 
led into an examination of religious associati- 
on in general. Ia looking^ at this subject, 
melancholy evidences present on every hand, 
that societies or church-organizations, osten- 
sibly for the promotion of religion, have been 
among the greatest impediments to its prog- 
ress, and the most fruitful sources of tyranny 
and oppression. But, while we feel that 
these facts should lead to the utmost, care in 
regard to the principles permitted to enter 
iuto their strucfuf, we are abundantly assured 
that these results are their abuse, not their ne- 
cessary attendants — the consequene of t he- 
admission into them of elements hostile to 
man's nature, his duties, & inalienable rights. 

Religious association has manifestly its 
foundation in the religious and social ele- 
ments of the human mind, principles power- 
ful and constant in our nature, and most be- 
nifieent in their legitimate action. We are 
made pre-emintly socinl beings. From the 
exercise of the social principles of our nature, 
flow all the rec.iprocalbenefits, all the count- 
less offices of love and kindness, which 
strew with blessings the path of life. Not on- 
Iv in the. physical, but especially in the high 
er departments of man's nature — the moral 
and religious — we behold the working of this 
beautiful & beneficent economy; in the min- 
gling of sunpa'hiesand affections; in impart- 
ing to each other the treasures of the intel- 
lect, the conscience, the religious feelings; in 
united aspirations to, and reverence and ador- 
ation of the Supreme Being. 
To attain these social religious benefits in the 
hieghst degree, assemblies are needed; these 
require arrangement, time, manner as well as 
object; in short, organization, or understood 
modes i f action. We need on'y that these 
be wise an:! right — not Conflicting with 
>n'- prerogatives, nor God's 
The obi ' ,r Hi ious association mav be 
tf T-fi'i.Ai mrorief 6 be, the promotion of 
I ^»!*h?« , ousi)e.*:: — of practice I yoodneSs— lnve '<> 

of ov. ry mem- 
and in tb 



IO.U, 



Ooi an '■ man 

tier CO :• ode 
world a i large. 

tin's end, it is Christian, a blessing to the 
community in which it exists. So far as il 



fas as it is i:;~tr;-.ni'.'nta ! t 



is not thus instrumental, its non-existence 
were desirable. To promote this, object there 
must be a practical conformity to the Divine 
laws — the principles of the association must 
be in harmony with the principles of the 
Divine govermeut. b*br righteousness is 
none other than the results of these laws — 
the exemplification of these principles in the 
actions of moral agents. 

Man is made to sustain a relation of an 
inteUgeni and accountable agent under the 
Supreme intelligence; has the law of God j 
written on the conscious powers of his soul; 
stands in such contiguity to Omnipresent 
God as to have imme.diatly revealed to him 
God's will regarding him. This is the raoda- 
mei.tal fact, in religion; that w hich constitutes 
man a subject of Gouts' moral govermem; the 
foundation of his hopes, of his accountability. 

This revelation of God's will to him he 
feels and knows to be personal — his accoun'- 
abilrty personal and not transferable, ihough 
connecting him in obligation; and binding 
him by kindred ties with the whole family of 
man. Yet, as abso'ut'y personal and indi- 
vidual as though he and God were alone in 
the Universe. Hence his conscience must 
be kept sacred in its devotion and allegiance 
to God, from whom the law comes. No 
laws nor institutions of men, should restrict 
this individual exercise of conscience, of re- 
sponsibility. The only restriction that can 
be Christian or lawful in this momentous mat- 
ter, in the terms of association, is the admis- 
sion of the obvious principle, that no pretext 
of conscience can be valid which violates the 
equal rights of others, or any of the unchange- 
able principles of moral obligation, which are 
primary to conscience, aed by which, in the 
Divine Order, it is to be governed. 

Liberty of conscience, then— the recogni- 
tion of the right of every member to act 
in obedience to tin; evidence of Divine 
Lisrht, in its present and progressive unfold- 
ings of truth and duly to the mind, must be 
a fundamental principle in every right organi- 
zation. 

That this perfect liberty of conscience, is 
the right of every sane and accountable hu- 
man being, appears from several other con- 
I siderations. Mankind partake of the vari- 
! ety which every where marks the Creator's 
works. Though identical in the elements 
of their being, these elements exist in 
the race in infinitely diversified 
proportions. Hence their individuality, 
their peculiarities- of character. Again: 
they are each subject to influences as diversi- 
fied as their mental and physical peculiarities 
— all which affect their character, their views 
their actions. This diversity furnishes oc- 
casion for a most profitable exercise of some 
of the finest feelings and affections of our na- 
ture — tenderness, kindness, tolerance. From 
the universality of the facts in the case, the 
practice of these virtues is obligatory on a!!, 
atid no institution can be Christian — can ex- 
emplify love to God and man — (the substance 
of Christianity) — that is deficient in these 
virtues. "Christianity,'' says an enlighten- 
ed writer, "respects this diversify in men — 
aiming notto undo but further God's will; not 
fashioning all men after one pattern — to think 
alike, act alike, be alike, even look alike. It 
is something far other than Christianity 
which demands that. A Christian Church 
then should put no fetters on the man; it 
should have unity of purpose, but with the 
most entire freedom for the individual. When 
you sacrifice the man to the mass in church 
or state — church or slate becomes an offence 
a stumbling-block in the way of progress, and 
must end or mend. The greater the variety 
of individualities in church or state, the better 
is it, so long as all are really manly, humane, 
and accordant. A Church must needs be 
partial, not catholic, where ail men think a- 
like — narrow and little." It has been the 
want of this broad and Christian ground of 
toleration that has been the bane of every 
church, Catholic and Protestent. In pro- 
portion to its absence, despotic and oppres- 
■ve measures have marred the harmony and 
pai • fully defeated llit: objects of religious so- 
ciey. 

Another cause of the exercise of despotic 
power in orofesaed Christian churches, has 



been the establishment of an ascending scale! "By their fruits de shall '.nee,- them " W>Jti 
of authority of large,- fcjdfres over smaller, Lende.ntly of abstract opinio'™! " Tim* a 
terminating in a Head or Supreaxe Control - < , ,„ .. ,. „ • , . , , ' , , 

5 'pl- 1 ^ 111 brother or sister mioht ho d the rWtwtnu «£ 

nig Power, J his, we are persuaded, has, { p£r ipeaoewme or 

been a prominent cause, of the difficulties j Inn '|. v > ° r of a "Vicarious Atonement— might 
which have been experienced in the Society J practice Water Baj.iism, the ceremony of 
of Friends^ at different periods of its history, | Bread and Wine, and kindred ritual* < r 
and especially of the divisions which have h-- mif-V he'-Vvo <« ,, jl- ' i 

i ili - .iii L • c . migiK ueiiove none oi tl.ese, and his rip- t 

occurred within the last quarter of a century. , Mv . , ' "■v ,r ' 

* .i , ... . . e t, ,. should be recognized to preach his oonsc : eu- 
lu the establishment of Preparative, .• . . 1 >-u..»i-.cij 

Monthly, Quarterly, and Yearly Meetings, it j 1 0US conV!C ' 10113 of these matters in any of 
was doubtless, not contemplated, in the early | our . meetings— each, in either ease, coiu ed- 
periods of the Society, that any dsepotic au- j iug the right of every other brother and sister, 
thority should be exercised by larger meet- j who ma y deem that error has been promu>«a- 
togs over smaller. The only power intended , u . d> to endeavcr, in the pure spirit of love 
to be exercised appears to have been lb-it oi ! , , - , , . ' *T" Y 

persuasion and love .But the. history of the !£e k,mlncss ' 10 l!,ilk? !t a#«en*, either bs- 
Society shows how easy it is to abuse power, 
when men have incautiously been vested 
with it, by the expressed or implied rules oi 
a written code. And the experience of the 
past admoishes us to recur to original funda- 
mental ground, in regard to the design of re- 
ligious association, and remove from it an el- 
ement demonstrably evil in its tendency and 
results — the subordination of ineclinris, or the 
vesting of larger meetings with authority over 



fore the same congregation, or in any oi our 
meetings where they apprehend themselves 
called upon to do so. Thus, by the reccgei- 
tion of equal rights and the sacrednesa of con- 
science, and of the duty of reciprocal kind- 
ness, a narrow sectarianism and party feeling 
would vanish before the light of truth, a-.d. ' 
the minds of the sincere and pious be more 



smaller. As in a right organization the man j" nd more Ullite,j - Nothing would be found 
can not be sacrificed to the mass, the individ-j s0 P ott> nt to promote unanimity of sentiment 
ual conscience to an assemblage of cou J and brotherly love, as action, based on these 
sciences; so neither can a number of individ- Divine principles. Under their influence a 

censorious and contentious spirit would find 



ual consciences in a congregation rightfully 
be sacrificed to a larger assembly, or any as- 
sumed established head. The order of inde- 
pendent congragations, therefore, has opened, 
with great unanimity and clearness, as most 
in harmony with man's nature and rights, 
and least liable to abuse. 

Each congregation or meeting, will conse- 
quently attend to its own internal or disci- 
plinary concerns. Larger meetings— Quar- 
terly or Yearly — will be for counsel and ad 



no place, the governing desire would be the 
attainment of truth, and. thus would be ver- 
ified the v. oids of the excellent Isaac f eur- 
ington — "It is not the different practice frenv 
one another that breaks the peace ami unity,, 
hut the judging on? another because ofdiCeiv- 
ing practices " 

We may advert to yet another great evil, 
rice, and for the consideration and promotion j „ hicli, in the churc h order we have defined, 
of the gieat interests of humanity — every 
thing that concerns man at large — including 



of consequence the existing evils of the day. 
War, Slavery, Intemperance, Licentiousness, 
or in whatever form cruelty, injustice, aiid 
other perverted principles may operate. 
Yearly meetings may suggest rules or regu- 
lations tor the government of partcular meet 
ing or congregations, but shall have no power 
to inforce. 

Another fruitful cause of difficulty and dis- 
affection, has been the institution of Meeting 
of Ministers and Elders. Of these we propose 
the discontinuance, as also of the practice cf 
recommending or ordaining ministers. Ev- 
ery meeting or congregation will attend to 
the regulation of the ministry among then?" 
selves: and if any one proposing to travel to 
a distance, wishes a certificate of moral char- 
acter, it ca„ be granted for the time being. 

Not only will the equality of woman be 
recognized, but so perfectly, that in our 
meetings, larger and smaller, men »B,d wo 
men will meet tc gather and transact buisi- 
ness jorntly. 

These principles, simply carried out, will, 
we apprehend, effectually prevent the abuses 
and evils of ecclesiastical organizations. 

And should they at any time fail to be ex- 
emplified in the practiee of a meeting toward 
any of its members, the evil would be limit- 
ed, and not very oppressive, as any member 
affected by it, would be at liberty to join an- 
other congregation, and still participate in the 
privileges of the general association. 

Two evils at least, if not wholly excluded, 
would find but scanty soil to grow in — Ty- 
ranny and Sectarianism. And these will 
be the more effectually prevented by the re- 
cognition of the great principle, already ad- 
verted to, of perfect liberty of conscience— 
which in our view, forbids the- establishing of 
any thing as a barrier to religious fellowship, 
either as regards individual or the inter-com- 
munication of congregations, but the viola- 
tion of the great uncnageaUle principles of 
morals, revealed, as facts of consciousness, 
to the universal human mind — Rcvorance of 
God, Justice, Mercy. Benevolence, Wrecitv . 
Chastity, cVc. In other, voids nothing but 
what ss plainly incompatible with lone to God 
apri beta to Kan \<uutink rack to the test: 



must receive an effectual cheek. We mean 
Priestcraft. This grows out of a dependence 
on our fellow beings, as possessing suneYiep 
means of Divine knowledge. In this depen- 
dence individual talents are neglected, and 
individua' responsibility is sought to be trans- 
ferred to the person or persons on whom thi» 
dependence rests. And this dependence givf s 
pownn to those on whom it is placed, and 
makes those who place it easy subjects for its 
exercise. In this way a large proportion of 
the professors of religion become, to a great- 
er or less extent, the dupes of priestcraft. 
The same effect takes place, to a certain ex- 
tent, among Friends, as the consequence of 
rccommcdhuj ministers, as it is colled; that is 
s 'ting them apart, by a particular process, as 
ministers of the Society. By this practice — 
which is a virtual ordination — the idea natur- 
ally obtains, that those llius distinguished 
have nearer access to the Divine mind— su- 
perior means of Divine knowledge, than Cill- 
ers. This leads to r.n improper dependence 
on them, and a consequent neglect ou the 
part of the other members of their own spir- 
itual gifts. Here injury is sustained, both by 
the preachers and those who thus deter to 
them; and by the non-employment of mdivM- 
nal gifts, in the inculcation of moral and re- 
ligious truth, the. body and cemmuuity at 
large suffir incalculable lo*s. 

Intimally connected with the right use of 
the gifts of every member, is the mode of 
conducting assemblies for spiritual cdiucaiio;* 
and improvement— of which we will here say 
a word. Agreeably to the facts before stated , 
and the objects of religious association ,ev-ry 
accountable human being stands in such a 
relation to the Divine Mind, as to be priv-ii- 
eo-ed to receive, from the Fountain of Wis- 
dom and Goodness, immediate Instruction 
relative to all the duties of fife-, peisonai and 
social. The: resp nsibiiity ia respect to these- 



being persona I j find not transferab/jc j 
no mo eno sppo'int another %$ act for him jr. j 
their ffclff meat. fidf-iit 5* to God can tf j 
maintained only by individual obedience tc 
Divine requiring. No fflc'.ctSf, arraingmen 
can Be riaftt, vibieh admits not of this obedi- 
«'ti::». No man has a right in absolve him- 
self from it. In view of these important truths 
mc deem that a true church organization 
does hot admit of placing One or more per- 
sons over 3 congregation a3 tin slated spirit- 
ual Mather or teachers, consistently with 
{dividual rights and responsibilities, all must 
meet togather as brethren , r* cognizing one 
Divine Teacher, and leaving the minnd of 
pach free, to speak o.- be silent, according to 
his highest perceptions of duty, and in agree- 
ment ivlth a just estimate of each other's e- 
•qual rights. Thus may the gifts of all be- 
exercised in the promotion of truth and good- 
ness, and while they are improved "by reason 
•of use," the body will " edify itself in love. 1 ' 

Associating on these principles, we have 
concluded to hold a Yearly Meeting, in 
Friends' Meeting-house, known as Jimiu,s, 
(now Waterloo) Seneca County, New York, 
commencing on Second»day, the 4th of tjth 
month next, 1849, at 11 o'clock in the n.orn- 
ins": and we recommend that Friends, in 
their different meetings, who may be pre- 
pared for the measure, appoint representatives 
-accordingly. And we further invite all, of 
whatever natrye or wherever scatlerd, who u- 
nite iu the principles of the foregoing basis 
of association, to the present and participate 
with ns in the objects contemplated — to pre- 
mote truth, piety, righteousness, and peace. 

That ail may find in the endearments of 
Religious Society a home for their spirits, 
^and that, by a union of effort, virtue and hap- 
piness m&v ba.ditFu.sed in the human f»mily, 
and God be glorified, who is overall, blessed 
forever. 

Signed on behalf of the Conference 
THOMAS M'CLINTOCK, 
RUQDA Dl GARMO, 



BOONTON FEBRUARY. 3d. 1840. 



ierks. 



€URE FOR FITS. 

For a Fit. of Passim. — Walk out 
in tlie open air, you may speak your 
fnind to the winds, without hurt- 
ing any one, or proclaiming your- 
self to be a simpleton. 

For a Pit «f Idleness. — Count the 
tickings of a clock. Do this for 
one hour, and you will be glad to 
poll off your coat the next, and 
work hard. 

For d Fit of Krtravngnnre and 
Fuliif—ihi to the workhouse, or 
speak to tho ragged and wretched 
jnmates if si jail, and yju will be 
convinced — 

Who makes his bed < f brier and thorn, 
Must be content to he forlorn. 

For a Fit of Repining. — Look 
about, for the halt, and the blind, 
and visit the bed ridden, and afflic- 
ted, and deranged, and they will 
make you ashamed of complaining 
of your lighter afflictions. 
For a Fit of Ambition.. — =Go into 
the church-yard and read the grave- 
stones, they will tell you the end of 
ambition. Tho grave will sooi) be 
your lied chamber, the earth youi 
pillow, corruption your father, autl 
the worm your mother and your 
sister. 



., There \% no harm," says the Rev. Mr 
Montgomery," in smoking tobacco, except 
that it lea ls to drinking — drinking to intoxi 
cation — intoxication to bile — bile to indiges- 
tion — indigestion to consumption — consump- 
tion to death. That is all. 

11 No man lighteth a cqmIIc and 
pullet h. it under a bushel." 



At the request of our fiend Barton. \v< 
have given Lim a small corner of our papei 
hrough which he wi>l es to utter a few 
thoughts upon the improvement of English 
Orthography arid some other t hings. We did 
not read his article before he left for Phi'adel- 
phia and perhaps have not done him justice 
in e.\< cuting the work, though we have fol- 
lowed the manuscript a» nearly as possible. 
We believe in tree investigation, and free ex 
prcssion of thought; but we do not wish to be 
Considered as endotsing any thing that we dt I 
not write ourseles unless we say Jo. 



f^TV AMF.RIC/.N IT:EI\CLOGiCAl 
TCURNA.L. — The first iSo. of Vol. 11 0 
his Journal is received, and as usi id, is fili- 
al with interesting and profitable matter. 
K is pub'ished by howler's and VV. lis Nol31 
Nassau St. N. Y. at 1 $ a y< ar, sing e copy 
5 copies for 4$. 10 copies tor 7^. 20copitt 
of 10$. 

All friendly to intellectual and physical 
improvement, should read this Journal. 



We l ave been informed that a number ol 
Colored children have been excluded from a 
public school in Plainfield, a sc). ool suportec' 
oy a lax levied upon all the inl abilants ol 
that To»n, colored as well as white. Whet, 
the colored chi drcn, whose Parents are com- 
pelled to help .-tapport the .scbonj bylaw, went 
to the school, they were placed in a separate 
room without fire, alone, and an ass stant 
teacher visited them twice a day to instruct 
them. 

It is said their parents took them aw av on 
account of the cold, but fire having been pro- 
vided for them in their seperate loom, they 
have returned again to be kept alone excep' 
on the occasional visits of the assistant teach- 
er. 

We hope this may turn out to be a mistake 
and will withhold our comments until we 
hear further. Will the Plainfield Gazette 
which claims to be a friend 1 f Equal rights 
give us the particulars. 



#f»WATER CURE JOURNAL, edit<d 
by Joel Shew and published by Fowlers Sf 
Wells 131 Nassau Street N. Y. for $1.(0 
1 year, and filled with very vauable inhu- 
mation on the subject of Vrattr Cure, llcahl. 
md Reforms generly. 

THE CHOLERA ,its causes prevention and 
:ure showing the ineiiicacy of the Drug treat- 
ment, tind the superiority of the Water Cure 
'jy Joel Shew M. D. This is the t.tie of a 
Pamphlet of about 100 pages just publisher 
by Fowlers iy Wells 131 Nassau Street N. 
York. 



THE PRESIDENTIAL VOTE for 1849. 



{^NATIONAL ERA. This paper pub- 
lished at Washington by. Dr Bailey, main- 
tains its claims uqon the people for s"pport — 
It is ably eonducb d and is one of the moet 
useful 1 apers of the land — Let all who wish 
to enjoy a feast of literary matter, and learn 
the most important political news of the day. 
lake that paper. 



We refer our readers to a earful perusal « f 



{•^NATIONAL REFORM ALMANAC 
for 1849. 

This is an excellent elect nut t just put 
lished and for sale at the office of the Young 
America, at 56 Chatham Street. Y. N. 

All land reformers should secure a copy of 
this almanac for themselves, and and aid in 
its circulation — It contains a concise collec- 



the communication of Wm. Coats on ourlast tioo of things very important for all to know, 
page. We add a few further remarks on the 

article referred to of G. C. Thompson. &3pTIIE DAILY ENTERPRISE, is the 

First, he accusses the reformers ofgoingback ! {\'de of a new Anti-Slavery Paper just star- 
to the days of Voltaire, and the French reign t"d " l Wheeling in Virginia, 
of terror. Now we think it can be proved to 
a demonstration that, the reign of Terror he 
speaks of was one of the legitimate fruits ol 
secret societi< s. It is well k-iown that Jacob- 
inism, Freemasomy, and other secret clubs 
in conjunction with secret ecclesiastical cam- 
b nations reigiv d in terror over France, to 
>ay nothing about oilier p rtions of Europe, 
it the time refer d to, and more than once 
deluged France with human blood and is 
enough to make every advocate of s.»cre: 
iocieties that possesses one spark of honesty 
ib 'ut him, renounce all allegiance ',0 tiiem 
ind come out arainst them. This every tru- 
!ij ho itat man mil do, when he ihoroughlv 
understands their bl <ody history in Europe 
■md America. 

S"cond we ask G C. Thompson, whether 
'ie did n >t Icnowlhul about the time he was in 
i^oohtOn or a few days previous, the use of 
>ne of the Churches, forwnjc' he professes so 
much sympathy was refused f >r Mr. Cart«i 
to give a lempt-rance lecture in ? We he- 
lie ve all churches thai refuse five adm ittance 
to temperance anil anti-s'avery lectuiers 
<h mid ba made to "feci severely" and we re- 
joice that they are begini 'g Xoje.cl; it is a 
ioul-cheoring sign of this age and we are not 
surprised that the Tent should feci in the same 
way, the same disturbing influences. Jesus 
Christ when on earth made it a very impo.rt- 
antpart of his business to disturb the. peace 
of such Churches 

Third, G. C. Thompson's article leaves 
room for thi inference that none hutforeign- 
trs drank beer and that there were none of 
that class of «ur citizens- that did not drink 



besr. Now this is a great mistake; we have 
rtunftfirou.1 foreign rs who are staunch tee-to- 
talleis, a"d a p'en.tv of American-burn, v he 
will swill down »he beer and other ifttoxicat- 
ing liquors in no very small quantities. 



. .. Miiuaiiu^-n. 1 1 AC LQU^C \l c 

inssa was the tyrannical power of | 
t'ent. We trust that there aye ma 



ft&> MORRIS/TENT of Recabiies has 
been di«banded. The cause as we are infnr- 

the High 
re aje uniny more 
honest men who will soon find out 1 lint they 
are. made- mere instruments in the service ol 
1 few selfish and aspiring leaders in all secret 
societies. Power is in the higher degrees 
i:i these orders, where but a small proportion 
of the mass are admitted, con equeotly a few 
designing ones control the many. A few 
reap the greatest advantage*; trie- rest aa\ 
only used. 



MORE EMANCIPATION. 
William and Ellen Crapt, mail and wife, 
lived with different masters iu the state of 
Georgia. Ellen i< so near whit-, that shr 
can pass wihout suspicion for a white woman. 

The husband is much darker. He is a me- 
chanic, and by working nights and Sundays 
he laid np money enough to bring himsel; 
and his wife, out of slavery. Their plan wa: 
without precedent; and though novel, wa: 
the means of getting them the ir fre> dom. 
Elh n dressed in man's cl> thing, and passed 
as the master, while her husband passed a: 
the servant. In this way they travelled fr n 
Georgia to Philadelphia. They are now 
out of the reach of the bloodhounds of tin 
South. On their journey, they put up a 
ihe best hotels where they st ped. Neithe, 
of l»hcm can read or write, and Ellen, 
knowing that she would be called upon it 
write her name at the notels, &c, tied hei 
right hand up as though it was lame, whicl 
;n oved of some service to her, its she wa: 
ca'Ied upon several times at hotels to "regis 
!er'' her name. In Charleston, S. C, the? 
put up at the holel which Governor M'Duffh 
and John C. Calhoun generally make, thei 
home, yet these distinguished advocates 1 
the "peculiar institution" say that the slave 
cannot take core of themselves. They ar 
rived in Philadelphia, in four days from lb 
ime they s'arted. Ex. 

They are to attend a meeting of the Mass 
Anti-Slavery Society in Boat »n this Month 



He that has energy enough in his const! til 
lion to root out a vice should go a little farhi 
and try to p'atit in a virtue in its piace otl.ei 
wise he will have his lihor to renew; a stron 
soil that has produced weeds may be made t 
prod ttCs w!i".it with far less difficulty thai 
would cojt to, make it produce nothing. 

Lucon. 

' Hare no fcllutcship with the tin 
fruitful uuihs of ' dui Lvcss." 



r. n. , 

CO 

cc 

5,CC5 

80 

00 

00 
8.C42 
15,839 
1,126 

1 

12,157 24 



cct. 
1 0 
CO 

23 
2 

CO 
00 
CO 
CO 
00 



Stales. 
Aik;ir.sas, 
A lab. ma 
Connecticut 
Delaware 
Florida 
^Seorgia 
Indiana 
Illinois 
Iowa 
Kentucky 
Louisiana 
Maine 
Ma^s. 
Marj land 
Mississippi 
Missouri 
Michigan 
N. H. 

I e w Yo.k 218,551 1 14,592 IQKlflU 2,545 
New Jersey 40,015 36,901 619 
S. Carolina 44,000 35,319 85 
Ohio 138,360 154,775 35,354 

Pent.. I8f,,l 13 172,661 11,200 

R. Island 6,779 3,646 730 

S. Carolina (Votes by the Legislature) 
T. nnessee 64,145 57,984 
Texas 3,777 8,795 3 

Vermont 23,122 10.948 13,637 
Virginia 44,725 46,277 ' 9 

Wisconsin 13,096 14,440 10,185 

Total 1,355,828 1,216,746 291,927 4,C£3 
Taylor less than Cass &. Van Buren 1?2,845 
Taylor less than all others 15C.878 

The increase in the popular vote in four 
years has been only 180,000, falling shortat 
lea-t two hundred thousand of the "inert ase 
of the voters. 

In the six New England Sta cs, the de- 
crease in the Dunociat c vote, since 1844 
is nearly thir y-fo r thousand; in the Whi"-' 
ovu fifteen thousand. 



leylor. Cass. 

7,5£8 9,300 
30,504 31,287 
30,316 27X47 
C,422 5,898 
4,537 3,238 
47,527 44,790 
70,159 74,694 
49,623 51,977 
10,617 12.051 
C6,927 49,743 
1S,14G 15,187 
35,273 40,195 
e 1,300 35,393 38:263 
37,702 34,528 J25 
25,821 26,550 
32,671 40,077 
23,940 30,6S7 10,389 
14,781 17,763 7,5601,112 



7 7 
111 

79 
29 



Ct> About $ 80,000 worth of Pistals have 
h en sold dy Alh n & 1 l.uil tr of Worcester 
Mass,, f r Calafornia, and moie are ordered 
for the same maiket. Gold seeke.s will have 
o fight as well as dig, for Gold. 

WHO PAYS THE BILL? 

The Queex of England. — The 
income of the Queen of l.nglancl i* 
half a million pouhtls stcrling-2 0- 
1)0,000. From this, £200 OliO is ta- 
ken to pay what is called thehouse- 
!mkh, which consists of the great of- 
icers of state, such as the Lord 
Chamherhtin, &c. The Queen has 
;cven or eight palaces: Lut then 
•he pays no taxe-s. 

W hen the Queen goes in stale, 
the procession consists of the Life 
Ghiunis in half armor: three of the 
oval Carriages with fuur hoists 
•ach, having (lie great. < fficers of 
tale in (hem, then the corps 01' Vo- 
uch of the Guard, drrssrd in ihe 
•stum of (lie time of King Henry 
lie r.ighth, with long halberts in 
heir hands, after these are forty 
oat men in liveries of red, liiteralfy 
•ovcred with Gold , then the mar- 
tial porters, also gaudily dressed. 

The state carriage is drawn by 
'•ght cream-colored horses in scar- 
et tnoroco leather harness, thitk- 
y studded wit!: gold. The Queen 
s generally accomponiedby Frimre 
\lbcrt, the principal lady of the 
ed chamcr, and the f>nke of Well- 
ngton carrying the sword of state, 
•die wears on this occasion a eor- 
net of brilliants, and diamonds of 
•mence value ifpoii her dress, which 
<! of the richest materials, and over 
icr shoulders she has a crimson 
civet mantle, lined with ermine,, 
md richly embroider**! with gold. 

Tic Queen has ;>20 domestic 
ervants, 110 of wliem wear the 
oval livery of scarlet and gold. At 
t royal banqet the whole dinner 
-ervice is of gold. 



THE MOiiMXG SUY. 

BY T!I. II. BARTON, 

"For,behoid, ihe dacometh that shal bum 
a> an oven, and al the proud, ya al thai du 
wikid y shal bstubel; and the da > hat cometl. 
sbal bum them up, s^lh the Lord of host, that 
it shi' ley them nether rut nor branch. 

But unto u that fer my nam, si al the Sun 
of riteusnes a is with hel ing in I is wings, 
and ye shul go forth and gro up as calves in 
the stpl. Al who walk in the lit as Jesus 
id in the lit hav feloship on- with another 
anJ ar therby clensed from al sin.' 

Tis da, lis di, tlr; al proelam, 
'We no the truth, the wa is plan; 
The Wa, the Truth, the Life of God- 
The holy path that Jesvs tr.-d. 
My brethrin and my sisters der, 
Lift up yur heds, be of gud cher; 
No longer let the crafi of man, 
Bewildr u, and make u stand 
In doubt, or fer, or in suspsns, 
For truth, and rit is your def.ms; 
A perfect Wa the sants rr a no, 
The path that Jesus Krist did go. 
Come HjIij Ghost, thou perfect gide, 
And led us on, dispite of pride, 
No mo e let nit or hrany 
Ingulf .he church in misery: 
#5= The forgoing srticle is printed With 72 
li tiers 'es, than 'he old absurd method requirs 
If it was rite for Webster to dismis k, and 
u, from many words in which tha ar silent, 
whi not dlscar.l al s ich silait u.e'.es drons 
from the republic of letters. 

MICHAEL HULL BARTON. 

Saluteth al his f ends amung hum he 
Lai gon prechfng twenty five yers past. 

Brethreu lam in usual helth, and enjoy 
peace of rnin d 

What nothing crJily givs or can distrny, 

The sols cam sunshine an I the hut foil Joy. 

I resid, at present, in Newark N. J. 

In 132S, aid d by R b'-rt Foster, I publr- 
shed at Portsm nih, N. H. a muirthty wo k 
intiteld ' WISDOMS' MESSENGER:." Its 
object, the union and perfection of kristiohs. 
fn 1S30 I published at Bosto>, Mas. a work 
entitled "SOMETHING NEW". Its ob 
ject being the perfectio i of en.Iish spe ing. 

SQMET1IIN M.W. 

W.iitye npon me seth the Loid, for my 
determi ation is to ga her the n>ti n-, tha 
1 ma assembJ the kingdoms. to por upon 
them m n indignation, for al ihe erth sbal 
be devoured by fire of my jelousy. For thi n 
wil 1 turn to the peopl a pur languaj, thai 
tha ma al cal up'-n the nam of ihe Lord t>. 
serv h m with wo:i consent. Z.*ph. 8. 9- 

"i7 ye perfect. L:i apart al suporf laity ." 

These commands ar not obadso long as 
we folio a very imp* rfect and supernus sys- 
tem of speling. Why shud we us five let- 
ters in speling the words neigh, weigh 1 dough 
when two represents them perfectly, Viz. 
na, wa, do — Or whi shud we uz for jeterz 
to exprrs the w ords high, nigh, sigh, know, 
knew, quay, when, two leterz spel then perfectly 
thus, hi, ni, si, no, nu, he. Only think; quay 
i< pronouncd ke, and phlhisick, is pron uued 
tiz-ik. We folovv ihes barbarous customs in 
speling for no better reson than the Duch- 
man gav for having a stone in one c nd of 
his bag to bi'ens the grain on the hors, 
Viz. Becaus his Father did so. 

Pitman of England, Comstock of Phi'ade 
phia, Andrews and Boyl of N. Y. ar doing 
much gud, in exposing the ahsurdites of our 
present method of speling. Pitt-man and his 
associates ar introlucing his nu orthgrafy 
al over England. Andrews and Boy! pnblish 
a weekly paper in N. Y. with'a nu allebet 
Dr, Comstock publishes his Fonotipik Mag- 
azen in Phil. I think Comstock's Alfabei 
preferabl to al I hnv yet sen published, no 
excepting my own, published in 1830. Bu 
1 hav a nu n'febet, comprising, as I think 
the good qualitis of al I hav yet sen, whic! 
as soon as I can procur nu tipe I intend ti 
publish in this paper. In the mean time let 



as truce one step more towards perfection. 

Altl.-o there ar, in the english language, 
.•ight or un mor pu'mary sounds than simpl 
distinct leU'is to npr-sent them, yet stil, 4 
of the 'ette-rs as now used ar inlirly supeif us 
viz c, k, te, ce. c on'y represens the sounds 
oik, or .-; and q that of kw. le, and ce ha\ 
no sounds i f their own. We wil make them 
useful by changing their names and natures 
ihus. c, telie, the sound of ch as in ehew-cu 
q, the, the sound of th as in though-qo- 
a?, a-»e, th sound of a, as in aught-cet. 
ob, owe. the sound of ou as thou-qoc. 
By useing qese letters as abo*e, and spel- 
ling as nearly as tha ar pronouncd, as the 
alfabet thus improvd wil permit, we ad the 
work of reform, wrought-rrct. taught-tcet. 
qo nabur tret, shud think wc art, 

The bad old wa persu; 
Yet he shal no the wa we go, 

Is ezy tost and tru. 
Nee whi shud we so fulish be, 

I n making marks tor scendz: 
In the word pet two sounds are Iset, 

By five great marks we sa. 
In no [know] and vu [vieujin bo and lu, 

Four letters nee [now] we se; 
But two wil du and spek mor tru, 
The sounds that shud be hurd. 

Jesus Krist has givn the world a perfect 
Law, and bids his cure go tech it to al na- 
tions, a'id as hi the ad of a perfect a fabet the 
thre forihs of the human family ho ar now ig- 
norant of lete.s and of the gospel ma b ta?t to 
red the sain in won tenth of ihe tim that is 
requsit with the prest nt sistems, it follows 
of cors that the art of reding ma b acquired 
in one tenth the tim na; reqtiiite, bi the adop- 
t-on of a perfect orthogrofy 

$. 1 .000. and < ne yer wil effect as muc 
us $. 10.000. and ten yers nee iffects. This 
being sober truth a'redy demonstrated l.i facts, 
can it b that Zion wil h-sitat to giv efficnt 
aid to the nob! attempt to Letteri'Z and 
ghristioniz 'he human iac Na, Na, Jesus 
has prad to that end, and verily his disciples 
wil noe unit wi.h Lira in praiug and working 
for its fulfiliiient. "HolyFaihi r," se t he." 
k-p thru thin own ram those horn thee 
hast givn me, that tha ma b unr*. Nether 
pra I for th-sa a'on but for them also «hic 
shai l> lev on me thru their word." We 
hav al thus beleved on Jesus thru the words of 
the primiliv cure whic the Holv Gost mov- 
ed them to rit. That tha (in the last age) 
m i al b o»e, as thee Father art in me and I 
in the, thai tha als > ma b in us: I in them and 
thee in me, that tha ma b made perfect in won 
and that the world ma no that thee hast me." 

Here wese fat w'nen the christen cure i» 
perfect in won body it wil caus the wor'd to 
no that the gospel of Jesus is of God • In as 
much as its recption and ful reduction to prak- 
tis, wil produc such a perfekf sla'e of things, 
is no other sis'eni or influens did or can pro 
due." L"t your lit so shine before men." 
•a- s Jesus" that tha ma se your gud works, 
(correspond tig with your gud words, of 
ioving God and e : ic other) and agan glorifv 
your Father whic is in Heven. Jesus c< n- 
thiud thus to pra for the cure. "I hav 
^iven them thi word, sanctifi ihem thru thi 
truth, thi word is truth. As thee hast sent 
me into th« world, even so 1 send them into 
the world.,, Hence, bi coming up to the re- 
quirments of the word of God, spoken thru 
Jesus, we ar sanctified thru the truth as'it is 
in Jesus, and therhi no the truth to make us 
fre from sin and Error. That truth requir us 
to ask and resev the Spirit of truth, whic a- 
lone can »id us to understand and oba the 
'urth of Jesus. Hens says Paul" no man 
eaivcal Jesus Lord but Li the Holi Gost." 

i.e., Ihe Holi Gost alone can give us a nol 
ej of the karakter and kingdom of Jesus 
Krist; who in his tim "wil sho who is the cn- 
i Potentat, Suprem ruler, and King of Kings 
md Lord of Lords.', 



WIS I >OM\S MESS P NGEIi. 
Wisdim hath bilded her bees, she hall, h'itx 



cet her seven pillers; she hath Idled her (feast, 
she hath telso furnished her table; she hat! 
sent forth h' r made ns; she krieth upon tin 
hiest places of the citi. Whoso is simpl, le! 
him turu in hither; to him that wanieth un- 
derstanding she satih; com * t of mi bred; and 
drink of the wine I hav mingled.. Forsak 
the fa'i h and live, and go in the wa nf ur. 
derstanding. The fear of the Lord is the be 
giuing of >vis:!o:n, arid the nolege of the holi 
is understanding. "Prov. 9. Ch. 

In the futur Nombers of the Messenger 1 
wil discrib 

1. Wisdom's hecs. 

2. Her seven pillers. 

3. Her for beast. 

4. Her tab'es. 

5. Her twelve madens. 

6 The maner of her cr\ ing. 

7. Her hiest places. 

8. The s'mple who lac understanding. 

9. Her Bred. 

10- Her wine. 1 

11. Hoe to forsake the foolish 6; live. 

12. Hoe to go in the wa of understanding 
Thes twi lv diskorses wil give a perfekt 

liskription of the kingdom, and gospel of Jesus 
Crist. 

Wisdoms cildren ar nee seking to b in uniti 
md to akt in koi sert w< n with another. Tha 
wish to giv the Lif and testimoni of Je*us 
:nd a diskription < f his kingdom to al men. 
This is eel fcend in the Bible. But 1 wish to 
kondens it in won united butiful cane; whic 
in the hands of a purified Zion, or the An- 
gel of perfect lit, reflected thru her wii 
bind the old Dragon hu has so long deseved 
• he cure and the nations. 
The erth, (a poltical order of things,) w hic 
commenced in Pensilvana in the daz of Pen, 
and whic wil yet overspred the erlh, has help- 
ed the cure bi opening i s maeth of perfect tol- 
eration for al religons. And from that til nrx 
:!:at grat red Dragon of Llody persecution, 
that l.az put to deth perhaps i ne hundred 
milion under the ple of ther being- heriticks, 
has hod but li'tle power to kil sants orheri- 
tiks in America. "Rejjeis over false Religon. 
thee heven (tru cure) an I ye holy apostles 
an l profets. F< nr G d and giv glori to him; 
tor the cer of his jugmcnt is come." Rev. 

The v a is noe opetn d in the U. S. for the 
woman or cure io leve the wildernes into 
whic persecution drove her and kept her. 
Who is this that comei i oct of the wiidernes 
[of sin and err r] 1 ke pillos of smoke per- 
fumed with mirh and ftankirsfns, leninu 
upon her bi love-I . Ris up ttii lov, mi fci: 
one and come awa, for Lo! the win'er of Anti 
Krist is past, the ian of error, is over and got;. 

Mi dov, Mi undefilcd is but won; thee n'rl 
al fair mi lov mi .-pons, ther is no spot in 
ihr." Krist so loved the cure that he ga\ 
is life fi r it that he mit sanlifi and clens it, 
with the washing of water hi the word, that 
he mit pr 'S?.it it to himself a glorms cure 
withoet i'pot or rinkie." "Hu is she th.at 
luketh forth as the mo: nirg. fair as the mun, 
kler as the Sun, as terib'e as an Anni with 
banner-." It is (he cure of Jesus Krist, in the 
da?n of the da df God Almiti. And sun vi'j 

the vois of many wa'eis, (nations) and the 
vois of miti ll undoings, sucscd the mel- 
lodius vois of Zion canting (he Jnbile, anoth- 
er, singing Al'aluia, for the Lord God onnip- 
-Mant raneth. Ltt us b glad and rejois, and 
giv onor to htm for the marraj of the Limb 
is kum, and his wife hath made herself redy. 

And to her was granted that she Uiud b ar- 
rad in fin linen k'.en and whit for the fin 
linen is the ricusocss of saints. And b!es 
ad ar tha that ar kaild to the muraje su\ per 
of the Lamb. Nee is come salvation an I 
strength and the kingdom of scr God and the 
poer of his Krist, for the accuser of our breth- 
ren is cast down which recused them befoi 
our God da and nite. Therfor ri'joise ye hev- 
•ns, and ye that dwel in ihem. We give the 
.hanks O Lord God Almite, which art, and 
wast and ait kum bek:e.i thou hast laker. 



to thiself thy giut power and hast raaEd."- 
Rev. 12. 12. &c-. 

Tis da. < : s da,the watchman cri T 
Long ni:c of Antikrist good hi;. 
'I he wa the truth the lite of God . 
The holi path that Jesus trod. ' 

Mi Lnethcren and Mi sisters dear r 
Lift up your heads b of good cheery 
No longer shal the craft of man, 
Bew ilder you and make you stand. 

In dout or fear, or in suspence, 
For Truth and Kite is our defence, 
A perfect wa the saints shal no, 
The path that Jesr.s Crist did go t 

Come holy angels, gard that wa, 
O, lead us on to perfect da; 
No more let nite or tiriny, 
Ingulf the cure in iniserv. 

t 

The wa the truth the life DiVine> 
O come ye saints and make them shine; 
The truth of God if understood, 
And practised ico, wil mtke us gocd. 

FREE MEETINGS ADVOCATE. 

"Let us consider ore another to provoke 
unto love and good works: Not forsaking the 
assembling ofourselvestogatheras the maner 
of some is. I besech you bi the raerces of 
God that ye present your bodies a living ra , 
enfice, hi li. acceptable unto God, which is 
your rescnablc service. For ye maalprofe- 
:i one bi one, that al ma lern, and al ma b 
comfored. As every man hath receved the 
i;ift, even so minister the same one to anoth- 
er, as good stewards of the manifold grace of . 
God. If any man spek let him spek as the 
oracles of God.; if any minister let himdo it 
as of the ability which God giveth; that God 
in al things ma b glorified thru Jesus Grist, to 
whom b dominion for ever." Bible 

Of al the refomcrs that hav arisn since the 
apostles time, George Fox was the mos-t em- 
inent advocate of free gosple meetings. 

Within twenty years after he commenced 
preaching, C or 7 hundred free religius meet- 
ings wer set up in Grat Britons' Dominons 
thru the agenoy of Fox and his apostles. In 
the next No. we wil give Foxes' discripton 
of thesjs meetings. 

M. H. B. 



SLAVEHOLD1NG PERFIDY. — A Cor- 

resbondent of the Boston Chronotype states 
the follow ing fne!s as having occurred w ithin 
his own kiiowldge; 

The Schooner Wakulla, of Castine, one of 
her crew Le.irg a colored man, arrived last 
July at St. iiiTary's, Georgia. Knowing the 
laws relative to negroes, (lie captain made in- 
quiries, and was informed by the authorities 
that he would he unimolested. 

He proceeded to the mills some distance 
up the river, loaded, fewhen returning, tohis 
astonishment, ?.n officer came onboard his ■ 
vessel and arrested him upon a charge of vio- 
lating the law. lie wrs fined one hundred' 
dollars, wnich he was compelled to pay be- 
fore being released. 

Another vssel from the eastward, with six 
colored men among her crew, was there air. 
the same time-- the Captain was decived in 
the same manner and obliged lo pay six hun- 
dred tollers. It is aid that a Town House, . 
or some similar building was to be erected 
U the place- and the iwithorites desiring to tax 
the : r own people as iittle as possibls, adoot- 
ed th s method of defraying the expense. 

Has net the North submitted long enough 
lo outrages like this; Is it not time that he. 
citizens should rally in self-defence? 



There can be no Christianity where there is 
no charity; but the censorious cultivate the 
forms of religion that they Kvay more freely 
mdulge m the only pleasure of their lives lha 
of caiumaiating those-, whr> to their othesr 
failing ac'd not ti e sin of hypocrisy Zacun 

The editor of a newspaper at Perth berfisf 
challenged, cooFty replied that any fsc4 might 
^'ive a challenge, but that . two fools., wex-a 
needed for a- fight. 



""T" ' — • 



P 0 E T II. Y. 

Ff>': the Ft ';Ca cm. 
by * scoTtii ?..vcu.\Sit.'. 

Oh'. Ian* Shamrock fefd harp lovely 

Erin, . ( 
Whei* w|W» h<wq»ijalit>' Ni wears a sm'Je, 
May nuns iwmm boiiigii and, prospects mure 

cheeiug, 

Arise soon ig Mess your s«n et KnWrwd Isle. 
Thou "G-»m «.f tlr-' seas," WW*fc "«U> bcaulj 
combining, 

Tim' dim be thy lustre, tky Glory declining, i skins. 



S". J. I'.evmau. 



Mr Itf,:or, 

Having read the sketch given 
by G. O. Thompson P. Hi Ck K. of the I. O. 
of R., hi the Washm^toniaii of Jim. 13th., of 
his visit to Boom on, i find in it so many mis- 
repres< nta'ioio that are calculated to deceive 
and mislead ilv.no who ate not acquainted 
with the facts, thai 1 feel it a duty I owe to 
the. cause of truth, to set things in tLeii 
proper light, and more so, as I have been 
& member of the Praternity mavself, and nave 
fallen under the scourge of false irtnres- 



Thou yet will astonish the World with thy 
.shining. 

And make i Itself loved ar.d rospeetcd the 
while. 

The' sad smmd-yhv harp, t?;o' thy Sham- 
rock be drooping.. 
The bravest, the best of thy Son* in exile: 



He states on his arrival at B on on, ihai 
Lnp arrangement had boon rn-.nl" for a mc- 
' iiig, which he knows to he a CalaeJ&od as 
there was the, usual arranyemeni, by £oslh' . 
Hp notices in the public plneos two days pie- 
vious tj his arrival with his name ..tiached 
and at the Tent room on Friday night on:' 
The' thousands beneath heavy burdens are : Brothe informed us that another Brother had 

taken the responsibility to defer the meeting 
til Saturday evening, as there was a prospect 



stO'ipmg, 

And fill! pamperfid insolence triumphs the. 
while; 

TUV harp shall awake yet in-slrains bold and 
cUeei ing, 

T'nv Sham.iock be seon yet its lowly head 
rearimr, 

Andromtort and joy make their bonus more 
endearing. 

To thy injui-trd Sons, lovely Emerald Isle. 



of a larger meeting; ard Win. Robinson told 
G . C. Tompson in the hearing of me and 
Brother Crane that fact. 

The next statmonte must not be lost sight 
of. and 1 ask the readers of the Freeman to 
ponder it well, especially those who have got 



To fatnirth the vile, yellow worm (1) from thy 
sotl^ 

From clpuds of black locusts,(2 )to clear thy 
horizon. 

Who "at ftp the fruit of thy children's hard 
toil. 

May Fr-edom descending in all her mild 
Glory, 

Her bright angel wings shed benignant!)- o'er 
thee, " 

Thy ancient renown, thy lost rights to re- 
store tht-H, 

And give thee new splendor, sweet Emerald 
Isle. 

( 1 } The Genius and Spirit of Orangeism. 
(2 (The priests of all denominations. 

oo — 

STREET SMOKING LOAFERS. 

When idong up Broadway one is talking 
And with some pretty creature talking, 
To have a fellow smoking 

Faking, 
A step or two before yoti, 
As if to bore you, 
And pulling. 
At ewry step a eloud of smoke — 
Making the lady of whom I :-p -ke, 
Choke, 

a euStdg 

fs the on'v fit rewa.id for such aa dirty joke. 

J'fon'f^ On>n. 

ALL T ALK, AIVD ]$() 
ACTION. 

A benevolent man, was Absalom Bess — 
At each and every tale, of distress 

){''. blazed right op like a rocket: 
lie fell for ail beneath poverty's smart, 
Who were fated to bear life's roughest part, 
We felt for them in his inmost hart, 

liut n?ver felt in Ids pock.it. 

He didn't know rightly what was meant 
By the Bible's promise lour hundred per cent. 

For charity's rich dominion: 
But he acted as if he thought railroad stocks, 
And bonds secure, beneuih earlhltf locks, 
Were better, with pockets brim full of rocks, 

Than heavenly speculation. 

Yet mtOaid he was an eXelient man. 

For the poor he'd preach, for the poor he'd 

To be.ter them he was willing; [plan, 
JJot the oMast man who had henrd him pray 
And preach for the poor an a pitiful way, 
Could hardly remember him nightly to say 

.Mr. Bawl had e'er given a shilling. 



the goggles off their eyes so far as to see 
Ljke thine, own patron Saint, may a Patriot j Rechahism in its true character; it is this, that 

the " Tent has about 50 members good upon 
the Books," which is a well known mistake 
to every one that knows the affair of llie Tent, 
as one of the brethren told me last night that 
there were but 8 member? good on the Books, 
and he had been inspecting ihcm not many 
minutes previous to telling me and he seem- 
ed very indignant at the outrage truth had 
received in the premises; and farther the same 
statement was ma le to me this morning by 
another brother. I think if Recabism is based 
on selfishness and requires to be bolstered up 
by such misrepresents lions, it is a sorry in- 
| stittuion to be so loudjy cracked up as & be- 
nevoletiti nstilution. 

He next makes .some statements respect- 
ing "Church matters, and from the spirit 
manifested, he plainly tries to bring into dis- 
repute as far as he is capable a class of men 
who would not as far a.-- I know thern injure 
him or any other being in thought, word or 
deed. He charges them, with taking up a 
new doctrine advocated by A. J. Davis. 

Now what doctrine be means I am unable 
to say, I take up truth wherever I find it. It 
i« evidently nt me he is throwing hi.s firebrands 
of would-be-abuse, as there is not another in- 
iividual to my knowledge that is "loo good" 
to belong U> the church and tent, that ever 
did belong to both, wdio has read Davis' book. 
If Brother T. means the leading doctrines of 
.'v. J. Davis, viz., "universal redemption 
from sin and all inharmony," I am thanklul 
to God that I have been placed under such 
circumstances as to be able to lay aside that 
ungodly selfishness with which the mass- of 
mankind is afflicted so far ns to r 'cognize 
that GOD is LOVE and conseque ntly is able 
to,and will eventually overcome every ohsta 
He in opposition to himself, and therefore 1 
am proud of feeing a co-worker with Devisor 
any other man in the cause of humanity 

As for "one Barker" to which brother T 
alludes, some of his writings are in Boor.'.or 
and have been read and I can s;iy 1 love the 
man "for his very work's sake" ns he is o/ir 
of the greatest saviours the v/ov'.d has seen 
since the days of the martyred Nazarenr 
As for being a reliever in t!m d- chines of 

these great men, som* of tlvm I ''obeli in 

not because thee wW0<grribna5Ced by iJc us 
Barker and Davis, I m: bi ■ !.••• i! . a: - i b 
solute as God, from Go at 
God, and I unbluslungtt 
good" in my own estitmit 
church that follows so blind I v th«*-ta.«- 
teachings of a coruptand hireling priesthood, 
or a tent based upon such selfifh and aflti- 
Chrstian principles. 

He speaks of ur.d'-rmin'ng (he faith of 
christians — I say if the christian faith is based 
upon eternal truth, nothing can undermine it, 
and if it is not, the sooner those that desire to 
be christians, allow their faith to be under- 
mined, the better for themselves and the 
world — 

He speaks of many expulsions from the 
churches or trials. Now the fact is, there 
True frieudship is like, sound health, th" has not to my certain knowledge been oneex- 
VaLue of it is seldom know p uw'il it be Ipst. Ptitaion <W trial r.iaeo the Tout was orgnize.il. 



in atty t ne of ibe churches in BooMton, either 
Presbyterian, Catholic, Congre^ationelipt or 
Methodist; which i:, wcllknownio itlOM th.at 
belong to ihem — He however makes one 
grand concession to the movement of reform 
in this pkice and the world, and that h«, "the 
Churches und the Tent feel it severely" — 
He then mal;.' j s a sii'an::i bluniur io say 
the least by calling us "new lights" wliicb. 
it ■ ords have any meanmir. is someihing nev- 
er, known before, and th( n states v. c hare 
gone Lack to the old li^l.lof the days of Vol- 
taire and the Fivnch veign of terror. 

He then ends liis astide by oronoutici- ? 



volwiiedHti .av.fi .>•,,.-, 
make the --'ciji'tch •& an 



.so jse • 



my objection".* to R cjw^i^ ^tJ : V.M i f - 

be OUt of plaJi.- il^'vJan .;. r . .;. 

of brother 'i'koio^jooi rJei — . 
abite societies are not l:t.e..d ui i.;.i. •.: . 
ions — They do not profess i.< provide tor ■ 
tre^s generally, even U> their oun member, 
but only lor cases of sickness and death. 

People are in want i f assislunce often 
when not sick: a man may be brought into 
distress for want of employment; he may 
lose Ids situation in Bujshess from an attach- 
ment to what he believes truth, and if he is 
not so sick as to be unable to follow his im- 
ployment, he may for thus reason be turned 
out by his imployer, and left to perish as far 
as the rules of his society are concerned. Sec- 
ond; They will not according to rule admit 
any as members, unless they are "free from 
all bodily disease" — They make no provis- 
sion for those who bring disease with them in- 
to the world, or who are deprived of health 
early in life, yet these need help the most — 
Thirdly, Rechabite societies do not admit 
any under eighteen, nor over twenty five, 
unless they pay an extra sum as ah initiation 
fee; ihe older men are, the more they must 
pay, if they are admitted at all, and these are 
the very ones that are least able, to provide 
for themselves. Fourth; they oblige by law 
every member to purchase sashes iyc. which 
is, to say the least a waste of money, and 
they must pay a whole yeais contribution, 
including initiation, monthly dues eye, before 
they are entitled to any relief, w hether sick 
or not. 

Fifth; All are required to pay the like a- 
monnt, whether rich or poor. If a man has 
(&3,000 a year, he pays im more than he 
who is as poor as Lazarus; and no man can 
claim more when sick, whatever may be the 
extent of his neeesities, than he who has need 
of nothing. Now, we are in duly bound to 
do good with all we posses, and we have no 
■security that the money paid into these soci- 
eties shall do good. It may go to a man 
that has 5,000 a year for aught we know and 
those that have most need around us dying j 
of wont. Again no man can be certain that j 
he shall have money always to pay his dues, j 
and if a man shcuid not be able to pay, what 
follows, do the rules of the society give him | 
any thing? no, they fine him, and if he does I 
not get enough very soon to pay both his 
dues n n'- fines; he is scraped o(F the Books 
and left to die or find help elsewhere. If 
he is out of work; if his family are sick; if he 
has not a c»nt in the world, he must pay up 
his dues and nn'es or be Cxp'etteH— 7f he hrs 
to borrow, if he ! is 'o go in d sbt for bread; 
if bis little on w bii Icrt'i to tread 'he fiozen 



liid obey the oncers, without know ing wheih- 
jr these laws, and officers commands can be 
obeyed w ithout a violation of conscience or 
not, for there are usages and initiation service 
up held and performed by those that ray no 
legard to what others call sacred things^ and 
therefore make a solemn face of sublime 
• ruths. 

The first act of any officer or brother, the 
C. R. excepted, after the tent Is opened is 
to unman himself by making hi obedience u> 
one i erhaps bis inferior; thereby fostermg- 
pride and ambition. No brother 'can speak 
unless he first address the C. R. by the U- 
tle oi Worthy, when perhaps he has not a 
vorthy trait in ids character. All this must 
be done or a fine is imposed. Contrast these 
Ihings with the principles and teachings of 
Christ. "Love your neighbor as yourself. 

i no man master. Lay not up treasures 
for yi.urseles Sic. 

i . eve others to draw their own conclu- 
1-. for my -ar, my course is plain. If 
a o f of bread, 1 •• ill share it with 
T y 1 'lice. Ifoi'hf rs follow the ex- 
/UTa'! fca'i «ar s fcf ,f a ddellness. 

«o e i v. ard and 
,:mt ction with. 
.-. ... 'he pii* 



;ust in God. ! <-».•' : 

•i land tlua i., no; «. 
oiples of love and tru'J 
Jan. 15 th 18-19. 



WM. CDATES. 



Vegelable. diet and sweet repose — Animal 
food and night mare. 

ti Slavery office is at 61 John Street, N. Y., 
where an assortment of Anti-Slavery, Books,. 
Pamphlets, Tracts can be had no reasonable 
terms— address William Harned at the of- 
fice. — 



C<C>F0R SALE AT THIS OFFICE— 
The Liberty Almanac for 1849, No 
friend of freedom should be without this ex- 
ellent collection of valuable things- 

ALSO, PHRENOLOGICAL, WATER 
CURE and TOBACCO Almanacs. 



P^CIIEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
brofessor LIEBIG, price 20 cents, published 
y Fowlers and Wells, \Sl Nassau St. N. 
York. — .The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themseelv 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, $ 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend'of truth. 



ground im-.ho' 1 , v f rc t! •• sin m mHad; he 

must still day up. his <'tie.- ( and ivies or be ex- 

ivllwd 



tor UK br." no WifWjT'r!** " t-*!w<whii^hh| 
will ever h> answerc! bf git'iaB ifclo tni? Ayo.st 
ne«'ly. There a»-. n.anv in then' eie.i 
need when npt sick. If he pay : ' r 
for his own fnlure want , not art'rln - in 
accordance with th • t'ltth'TM^W. f"i* W> a"' 
to spend all our pbsWf*i »w in d#ing j!(>ih! jto 
tbe poor. Again, be is japt ;;:ej,!-.;.. t ! ;at he 
ever will bp gicjt ^fing'e . , id shall he 
spend Ids moivy provid'ng !|>r' wlinl ii.ey 
never come, whi'e th"«i-r.:ids 'o'f nh fello-v, 
men are in want, bo'h for biulyand soul. 

But there are. other things in this society 
derogatory to truth, for which I have no room 
at present, as pledging to abide by the laws 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that all 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuabe light on the subject. 

CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
for sale at this Office. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT —Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS. 
An assortment ofAnti-Slavery Books for 
sale at this office, among which are the fol- 
lowing : 

Memoir of Lqvejpjf, 
fCmam ipation in the WesJ Indies, 

>i Sy very Record 3 vol., 
Slave's Friend 3 vol., . . 
Mrs. Chid'* Appeal. 
-..Siiuvrv As ItJiL. «..*. ^l^L 



Alton Rio'.s Si A'pn Tjr'»' s ,j 
Cliauniug <;n Slave ry, 
Kourne's Picture of Saverv, 
Moll's Sketches. 




Truth invites full and free Discussion ; Error shrinks from all Investigation. 



Vol. 3. 



Boonton, March 28., 1849. 



No.Il. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor 
BooiUoii, Morris Co. n?y, JYete Jersey. 



T E R M S : 
Single copy 2j cents per annum, or fo> 
12 numbers 

5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
AH communications must be post paid. 



SELECTED. 
CONFESSIONS 

OF A 

FEMALE INEBRIATE. 



Earth has bad but one paradise; but to 
mv happy, youthful eye, the little vilage ol 

S seamed a counterpart to the Eden of 

old. To the stranger, there was nothing un- 
co union in the immense old maples and elm.- 
that shaded the dwellings, or inthe old church 
with its misshapen belfrv, it in the little river 
that ran ah.ng so quiely, unmindful of th< 
care* and anxieties of those wo lived and died 
oi its gr 'en banks. There was one beauti- 
ful duelling on the hill fronting the church 
that attracted the traveler's eye by the sing- 
ular beauty of its shrubbery, and its - profusion 
of elegant flowers. In that house mv father 
lived, there I passed the gayest, though not 
the happiest, part of mv life. 

At nineteen I was married. Charles L — 
— resided in one of the pleasant. -st cities of 
N w England, about thirty miles distant from 
my native village. H> was the junior pa t- 
rter in a firm ofgr at respect bility; the seni >r 
member of which hud taken up a, p' rma ent 
residence in London, fur thfi tfaasWction of 
foreign business, while tin oth< r tw.o conduct- 
ed the home department. 

Ou - estnbli-ihm-'nt met alltny id -as of taste 
and gentility, and my husband had every f- 
fection of my heart. I loved and prized the 
bounties of (iod's pro\ i 'ence; bu' few and 
short were the mom nts f gratitude to the 
Giver. My character peculiarly need d th 
discipline of ad»ersif ; I never knew but o e 
human being who had so much pride as my- 
self, and that was my husband. My prid" 
needed to be humbled, but, "O Lucifer, son 
of the morning," how was it humbled ! 
Several happy, prosperous years passed by. 
1 loved the wo>ld and the things "f the worl I, 
but I loved my husband better, and possibly 
my two children better still. But there is no 
sunshine of earthl happiness without its shad- 
dow; no summer sea so gentle but the spiri 
of the storm may 'urkbenea h the billow. 

My health filled, and for four w ary months 
I was th' i mate of a darkened chamber. Th* 
distant hum of the city, as it reached my ear 
through the open casement, seemed like a 
very m ckery; but at length I was partially 
released from my prison-house, though health 
did not return, and the suceeding winter w» 
passed under the sttn y skies of Florida: 

Immediately on our >e urn home, the fol 
lowing summer, my husband called in a phvs 
ician of much skill an I celebritv, and request 
ed his ii 'inion of my ease. After a minuti 
examina'ion, he gave it as his opinion that J 
had no disease whatev er, but was suffering 



nder great <!» hility, the . fleet of previous 
liseas, nl that much, exercise to ether with 

e use of some fine <• d wine, would reslort 
at*. Mr. L. was greatly elated, and m\ 
"W'Ji spirits rose much more ihan 1 wouie 
w illingly liaie confessed. Bui in ! the lung 
e riod that I had been an inva id, 1 hid mos 
if the time, been exceedingly depressed. I 
> id laid the foundation of all my hop s anc : 
lappiness on the earth: I ha I yet lo lean, 
he Wisdom of laying i above the r< gion of 
larkne s and decay. Reader, do you think 

linger long from the purpose • f my story' 
vVnen you have seen the whole sky overcas 
with clouds, and no spot of brightness bu> 
the little arch of blue in the e 'St?rn horizon 
'id not your eye instincivly turn frorn tin 
larkness, to r-st upon it? So, amid the sor- 
rows of later life, memory still loves to liv 
'er about the bsightness of its morning. 
Though every hope has been crushed, and all 
I loved can be r membered only in bitterness 
md tears, ilu ugh I have forgotten the worl i 
ind hope my sins have been parde.nen bv Hi» 
blood, who won- the crown of thorns, yet 
pride still lives. 1 still shrink from the story 
•jf my own disg'ace 

My physiciai prescribed wine. I commen 
edits use sparingly, intending to increas it. 
fit prove 1 beneficial. It was decidedly so. 
The s nsations e>f weariness, langor, and fain - 
ness Ht the stomach, from which I had suff -rd 
so mud 1 , were immediately relieved by it. 
My health began to improve gradu l!y, and 
V the end of hree months, I uas nea ly well 
Yet I did not dn am of dij-contiuuing my 
medicine; on ihe contr ry, I was gradually 
incr< asing the quantity, from wet k to week 
as its eff cts we e less perceptible. 

Six months passe I away, and considerin 
my health restored. I thought it woul I bi 
best t i re m:uish all restoratives. I did mo. 
but mv sickness, »: I termed it, b>'gan again 
i show its symptoms. I f It very languid, 
verv weak, ver. f int at the stomach, nnd 
very mis rah'e; nn I tuy wine was immedia- 
tely resumed, and the svm.itoms vanished. ' 
Ovce and again 1 mad >. ihe same attempt and 
failed, and then I told Mr. L- that my health 
was not as firm as 1 had sui>( ose !, for i found 
it impssibrfe to re inquish my win"; he replied 
that I oug 't not to attemot it. some months 
elapsed much in this way, bu one well-re- 
membered day my own eyes, at least were 
open d. The evening previous, my you : >g- 
"s> child little Annette, only 'wo ye<rs old 
was attack. 'd wi'h symptoms of the croup; 
our famil" physician was call d, and I pass- 
ed a night of most intense anxiety, in the 
morning she was entirely relieved from all 
danger, but I was completely exhausted by- 
watching and weariness. I directed the 
'•hainber-maid to bring me a glass of wink 
She did so; I then »old her to place a bottle 
of it in t! e c loset ■ t the nursery, where I was 
sitting. 1 would sit and soo h the little suf- 
ferer, and then again and agai , b fere I was 
conscious of what I was doing, I found my- 
self at th.- clos. t drinking wine. 

At length, things to mv eye began to look 
brighter; I called Lucy, the nursery-maid to 
see how fast Annette who was lving in m> 
lap, improved. She snid she did not sc. 
anv difference for the last ten minu'es, but i 
insisted that she had improved astonishingly 
I then felt very sociable, and. as there was 
no on.- bu Lucy there, I talked to her. I 
told her of all Annette's little wonderui ae 
ions, things, by t e way, that Lucy knew 
nuch better than I. I now beg;in to grov 
•en -rous. I to d Lucy she had been wit 
ov along while, and had been very kind ti 
the children in all that tim • (she had beei 
'here just six wer>ks)t and I intend d soo 
to make her u handsome present; but in lh«. 



mean time, as I was ~o weary aid sleepy 
must lie down, aud she must watch Annettr_ 

1 arose n ached the door in safety, anu 
lassing th- en ry, e ntered my own room ant 
losed the door aft r me'. To my amaze 
nent the chai s vv re engaged in cha ing th« 
ables round the r om: to my eye the b d ap- 
peared to be stationary and m'Utra', and 1 
esolved 'o make it my ally; I thought i 
vould be th- safest to run, as'by that mean.' 
I should re>ich ii sooner, but in the. attempt I 
ound my>elf iustiinth | rostrate on the floor 
• made several atti mpts to rise, but to n< 
urpose, and very s on, un !er the combiuee 
•ff ct of wine and «e- riness, I was asleep. 

How long I sh pt I know not; hut when I 
■ woke I w is sttl on the floor, a d alone. 
I awoke to a fu 1 consciousness of the whoh 
truth. I have since bei n through a'! the hei 
_;hts, & depths, and labyrinths of misery; bu 
aever, no never, have 1 felt again the unut 
terable agony of that moment. I wept, I 
:roaned, I actually tore iny hair, I did even 
hing but the one thing that could have saved 
:ne. I resolved, firmly, ay firmly, to drink 
:>ut very little wine at any time. I did no! 
reso've to drink none at all. I was not, I 
•res me, at that time "Uspected Ly a- y one: 
but a sense of guilt, and shame and remorse, 
.aun'.ed every waking and sleeping nv ment 
Still the habit was not abandoned; the chains 
ad been riveted in >.t el, ere 1 had known 
theirt to be on me; an i no«v I struggled in 
vain! I iut< nded tn be v- ry cautious, aud this 
I thought, was all 1 could do; an I my cau- 
tion amounted to this, that I drank only wine 
•no igh to make n e excetdingly fretfi 1 and 
unreasonable, and the whole misery of th is 
fell on the heads ••(' my unoffi ding chile' ren. 
The little ace id -nts o infancy which require 
patience, but not punishment, were met by 
me with unmerited severity. I recol'ect sit- 
in; one day, moody and fretful, in the nur- 
«tv, when little Annette came run irg tome 
: n great delight, exclaiming, "See, mama; 1 
have got tick, tick!" at the same time hold- 
ing my watch to her ear I extended my 
hanl to take it, and hi a* tempting to give it 
to me sh? let it f II to t!ic floor, and the del- 
icate crystal was broken. I instantly gave 
her a b'ow which fcl'ed her to the floor; and 
then with the inconsistency of a mind un- 
hinged, I lavished caresses and randy to a- 
one for sudi barbaritv . The little creature 
had founl the beautiful play -hi -g, as she th- 
ought it, where I had myself laid it, wi'hin 
her reach, upon mv dressing-table, and not 
dreaming of oil' nee, iijti ndi- g to briny it t. 
me, and her mother m t this freak of infancy 

with, 0 memory! memory! 

Another incident of this period is written 
on my heart in h Iters of 'iving tire. My hus- 
band was absent for a week. <>n buisness in 
=inother city. If there was any thoug .t that 
sent a pa-g of perfect terror through in' 
whole frame, it was the possibiiitv that In 
night discover my disgrace. With mv 
■strong attachment to him, there had alwayt 
ningled an element of fear. He « as exceec!- 
ugly proud, lofty in his notions of femal 
dignity, and acutely alive to the possibiiitv 
of disgrace. K' owing his temperament, 1 
was too well aware, that if a discovery wen 
•nade, it would be met by a storm, at least b\ 
he hush of life that precedes the toinado. 
He was away, nnd the second day of his ab 
;ence, Ellen, my eldes' daughter, tour year 
dd, was seized with a fever; the physiciai 
vas called, >ind for three days she was ver> 
I, and during that period 1 succ<ssfully re- 
nted th° temptation to take any st mu'ant. 
)n the fourth, she appeared somewhat betle 
nd at night the doctor directed me, in (h 
■ivent of great restlessness, to give her tlar:. 



hops of paregoric. I had watched over her 
nuch of the time fur three nights; 1 was 
.veary .-iiid worn out, and my better genius 
led. With the first stimulant, my resolutions 
ware gone, one potation followed another, 
tntil aii other consciousness was lost in the 
me desire for sleep. Still little Ellen was 
estless; the time for sleep had not arrived, 
; t was on'y eigl t o'clock; but it was midnight 
with my senses, and remembering the order 
>fati anodyne, 1 prepared it in iny own room, 
.hat she migt not see it to be medicine, and« 
'hen pravailod on her to swallow it. I then 
lircc ed the chamber-maid to sit by her, as 
Lucy was too much overcome by previous 
watching. I tuld her, if she fell asleep, to sit 
here till I ca i e, as I should sleep but a few 
moments. She was a kind-hartcd daughter 
•if the * Gree n Isle," but knew absolut'y 
nothing of sickness. Had not every faculty 
been blun ed by absolut intoxication, I should 
never hate trusted her for one hour. But 
sleep, s'eep was all I wanted, and to sleep I 
wen*, almost instantly on ri aching my bed. 
When I awoke, the sun shone brightly. I 
sprang up and grasped my watch, — it was e- 
leven o'clock, — my head whirled. It was 
.he day 1 expected Mr. L. to return. I was 
perfectly conscious that I could not walk' but 
I dared not wait, I actually reeled as I enter- 
ed 'he nursery; and there, the first object I 
'beheld was my husband, and the second the 
physician, and the third the pale face of Ellen, 
apparently in a profound slumber. With 
some faint fox taste of what the guilty soul 
will feel when it stands up before the Throne, 
I stammerad out an inquiry as to his return; 
and then without waiting for a reply, I inqui- 
red of the doctor, what he thought of little 
El'cn. "I should be glad to know precisely 
what she has taken during the night," was 
his reply, "for the servant who watched w ith 
her informs me she has been asleep since 
nine o'clock last night, and now I find it im- 
possible to arouse her." What reply I might 
have made 1 cannot tell, for at that moment 
I caught the eye of my husband fixed en me 
with a look that told me I was betrayed, 
lie instantly rose and left the room. 

The doctor repeated his wish to know, if 
possible, what she had taken. I told him I 
did not know, for I had slept longer than [ 
intended, and I w ould inquire of the servant. 
"O," said he, '-that is unnecessary; she told 
me that she gave her nothing, as you did not 
direct any thing, and that she had sl c pt sound- 
'y a'l the time." I became exceedingly al- 
aimed, but 1 tried to col'ect my thoughts. 
"I gave her, as you directed, thirty drops of 
paregoric; that was the last thing I gave her." 
" Will you let nic look at your paregoric?" 
I recollected after sometime that I had left it 
in my own room where I had prepared it. I 
.'ound it standing just where / had used it, 
with the s'opper out. 1 took it up, looked 
at the label w ith a soier eye, and it was laud- 
aunm! /carried it as calmly as Jcoulel (and 
excess of misery made me calm] to the doc- 
or, and pointed to the label He understood 
t at a glance, and shook his head; but imme- 
diatly added that if / gave her no more it 
>vould not do her any eventual injury. 1 
made no reply; for /knew full well that if/ 
l d made so gieat a mistake in the article, 
! e quantity might be equally uncertain. 
He said he wou'd r< main a while aud see the 
ej-ult, and wishing for a moment to think, 
l"ft the room and entered my owo, and there 
,at Mr. L. 0 that stem luck isf misery haun'.a 



lav «v*vi n* « f j da«ce of another i:( ad-sr rvflnt, hired for the 

/i Wit-re in fvtia to attempt a deser ipdoa.of : nccosion. Th<-scaccden:cdis!uib' d me.nnd 



(hat terrible interview, /i appeared that <n 
bj> return, Lucy, th« nursery-maid, who was 
•watching over £.! !«*», had detailed what l ad 
Vappened; and the fact of my leaving the si< k 



far from meeting- them \vj h thp si [f-poeses- 
sion I should once have do- e, I became ner- 
vcim and excited, for my mind had b en j"r- 
red out of t line by constant stimulants, and 



child in this manor / did* aroused strong su.<> . uV native tone could nut Ik? recovered. I 



]>iciot)S that be said had existed in his mind 
for a Jouq: while, from t he strangeness of my 
ic-onduot at tim >s. He had come to my bed 
;;rsd endeavored to arouse rn¥, but in vain; the 
eVjpor of intoxication was too deep and the 
fumes of wine were net to be mistaken. He 
then left me to consult the physician relative 
to Ellen. He closed the conversation by 
paying, with a dreadful emphasis, '-There is 
but one alternative before you, Mary; this 
disgraceful, fatal habit most be abandoned, or 
we part'*. The last word sunk in a convul- 
sive whisper, and bis stern eye was for a mo- 
tn-t dimmed bv a tear; but it was only a 
jnonieiU, and he added, 'Remember, Mary, 
/mean all / say, for the future, let us forget 
Jhi3 scene, and oniy remember the time when 
v.e were happy." 

0 bow wide the ditF'rence with the hi art of 
woman; She maybe forsaken, abused, 
trampled on, but ami I all, the thought of sep 



was a little at a loss what to do, as it was 
getting late. I was fatigued with Some prep- 
arations I had been making; what did 1 do to 



recital fas w rung my heart anew. B'-t 1 1 av 
written.! 1 for a warning, that none of my se: 
may be innoce ntly lost i pi n 'be lock v he n 
my Lark ua< v. recked; yes, Wrecked, tnde ; 
i aim sky and on a summer sea. 

For eight mon ha ftfti r the departure of n ^ 
husbund / was in- xpressibly wivclrel, \< 
there v. as one star left on my 1 orizon. J 
kept his promise of letuin i.i.d laid it ! < P .' 
heart, and it did not bnak. 1 heard fit in h i 
t distant intervals, but 1 was utterly uspre 



remedy a temporary inconvenience? 1 drank I P art>(1 when 1 took U P the P»P e r one n " nin 8 
again. Yes, I write it for a warning; and and this paragraph met my eye:— 
from that moment I frit like a lost spirit! 1 



THE FREEMAN. 

BENTON MARCH. 23, 1849. 



Z.IBE ISTY, JE Q I V2i I T V, 
FUJI T£ RJVIT I*. 



was distracted by the apprehension ihat Mr. 
L. might susneet it, and to quiet this fearful 
foreboding I drank again. It was now time 
to dress. 1 gave the necessary orders, under 
exutiug circumstances, and began to prepare 
myself. With the delusion that invariably 
accompanies partial intoxication. 1 feared no 
detection except from my husband, and I car- 
ed for no other comparatively. 

I finished my prep iralions; my guests be- 
gan to arrive. ] trembled so excessively 
from mere agitation that 2 eonld not stand. 
It was absolutely necessary that 1 'should de- 
scend without d< lay. I dr rik ai;ain, to brace 
my r.en'es to the scene, and descended. Tiie 



"Died, in London, Charles L- 
of city, U. S. A." 



,Eso. 



He indeed laid his bones in the father 
land. 



eration does pot enter her heat'; if the whole | ' ooms brilliantly il uininnted and spien- 
world scorn and forsake him, it is the reason 
why she clings more closely to the wreck, 
hut let the wife be scorned & forsaken of the 
world, and the husband will not bide the dis- 
grace. 

7 should have felt utterly stupefi- d by mis- 
ery, but the situation of Ellen demanded ex- 
ertion. And over this part of my story let 
)ne hasten, thatmv fortitude may not fail ere 



/ have done. 

She awoke from her long sleep soon after 
this, and the doctor expressed the opinion 
that she was not Injured by it; but she gad- 
nally sunk, aud in five days the little spirit 



dully decorated, but the rememberance of 
that evening is so fearful, (bat I never think 
of the dwelling-place of the lost, but that par- 
lor scene, and all it* as^ciatioas are iestanlly 
before me. The lit'le I remember d stinctly, 
I cannot detail; the reader must imagine it 
all. I was far too agreeable, far too happy, 
to see my friends, far too loudly talkative for 
a lady hostess, /sedulously shunned the eye 
of my husband, \ ainly hoping to escape his 
no- ice. Wine was occasionaly passing, but / 
desisted several times, until some of the com- 
pany had left, and then the thought of the 



CHLOROFO R M . 

The New York Journal of Medic ne foi 
January gives seven new cases of death hen 
CHLOROFORM. Two of them are a* fol- 
lows. 

Mr. Badger applied !o Mr. Robinson, a dis- 
tinguished dentist in London, to have some 
teeth extracted. Mr. R. stated in his evidence 
lhnt he had administered anaesthetic agents at 
least thre • thousand limes. A drachm and 
a half of chlorofoiis was put on a spunge, 
which «as not held close to the mouth or 
face. After inhaling about a minute, the pa- 
tient requested that it sh< u!d be ma'e strong- 
er. Before this could be done, his head and 
hands dropped — he was dead. Mr. Badger, 
was a stout muscular man, and there was no 
reason to >u pose that he was suffering under 
any organic disease. 

2. A surgeon in the east Indies adminis- 
tered a dnchm of ehl roform to a you g wo- 
m;in, previous to the amputation of a finder; 
the chloroform was sprinkled on a handker- 



moment when all would be gone a-d Is .ould i chief, and the vapor inhaled. She cought d 



gr^* Our friend Barton h;d pre pared for the 
last number <>f t-e Freeman a request for his 
riends ti subscribe for the paper, but as we 
>\ere aLout making arrangements with ancth- 
r person for the publication of a weekly pa- 
; ;er we left out the article. These ar-ange- 
men s have not been effected, and we w w 
;ay we are willing to receive anv such sub- 
scriptions, as we shall continue the paper ns 
we 1 ave done, once, a month when we cor. 
Our terms are 25 em's for 12 i umb. rs- 

f£=--The article in our last relating to the 
treatment of colored children in the Plainficld 
Scl oo 1 , w- have heard was copied in the 
Plainfield Gazette, with a call upon the Trus- 
tees for an exp'anation of the matter. We 
are informed the Trustees are silent on the 
subject. 

#r>THE SEMI-ANNUAL EXAMINA- 
TION of the Pupils at Alianthus Hall Board- 
School in Pa- sippntiV, i nder the care of Mr. 
MctcalfjWill be nri Tuesday the 3d. of April 
next. Public Speaking the next day. 

Liberty, Equality, Fratcrnty — Ti t Amer- 
ican Declaration « f /ndipendence asserts the 
Liberty anil Equality of men. The French, 
in the r Declaration, have added "Fraierm- 
tv." This is an important improvement, we 
go for it. 



httd"go»e tu lie down in the 



the better land." 

Reader, in this dark and stormy world, 
whatever may befall you, never dare to think 
yourself unhappy i( you have a conscience at 
rest; for surely an accusing conscience is the 
^vorm that never'dies, aud the fire upon the 
heart-strings that cannot be quenched. /: is 
true that our physician assured me, again and 
again, that my mistake did her no injury, and 
in no way hastened her death; but the busy 
fiend still mutters in my ear, "How du you 
know so certainly that it did not injure her?" 

We laid our darling in the tomb, and w 
wrote aboye the entrance, "God took her in 
hitf mercy, a lamb, un tasked, untried.,' O how 
gladly would the wretched mother have Iain 
diwn b;-side hurl— but for me the storms were 
not y«t over. Still, the lessons which had 
peeH taught me at snub tremendous cost, 
proved Bajtrtftry, and fur many lung months 1 
was not again uvercORje by temptation* my 
husband's confidence seemed restored, and 
tha flikering shadow of our former happiness 
hovered about us, But / felt keenly at my 
inmost soul, that there was a place in h s re- 
spect and ad'eotion that / never could regain- 
He niade an effort to feel that entire and for- 
giving affection far me, that, had the cases 
been reversed, and he the erring one, /should 
really have felt for him. 

For the first time since, the death of our 
daughter, he requested me one day to arrange 
a small evening party of select friends to meet 
a friend of his from England. / complied 
with great cheerfulness, because / felt it a 
mark «»f returning confidence. Not becaus - 
(iocipty had now any attractions whore it once 
had so many; for in every scene of gayoty or 
splendor, my ear caught the dirge-notes of 
my departed happiness. / made my ar- 
rangements with great care and some person- 
al trouble, and / extended my invitations 
smnewhat b -yond the limits at first proposed; 
fibout fifty weie inyiled. 

On the morning of the appainted day one 
of my servants was taken severely ill; and in 
the sitouQou I disappointed mtficatten- 



een pastures of I be left alone wi h him recurred to mind, and 
1 tonk a glass and drained it to the very bot- 
omt. The company and the lights began t'> 
multiply and flit before me,— a vague thought 
crossed my mind that / wou'd fe gn illness 
and leave the room. / attempted to cross 
the floor for this purpose, but ere / reached 
the door I fed prostrate in the midst of the 



company! / remember nothing more until 
the following morning, and then the vry sun- 
beams looked hateful toinyeyes. Breakfast 
passed in entire silence, and Mr. L. lef im- 
mediately after. Dinner came, hut he did 
not return; evening, but he came not with it. 
At length, at a late hour, he appeared; he 
seemed agitated, and traversed the room in 
silenoe for some time /sat perfectly quiet 
■nd I thought there w^s not another drop of 
misery for me in the cup of life; but there wa.- 
vet another. At length the sentence came: 
— "Mary, wo must part! /n, ver cau or wih 
■ndure again what / did the last evening. J 
will not dwe'l o i it for one moment or it 
would madden me. / have been employed 
all day in making an arrangement with Mi- 
lt, who you k''o-v is now in this country, tc 
'ake his place in London; it is fi a'K airang 
ed and / sail in two weekc; in that time i 
shall make every possible arrangement for 
your comfort; and / give you one strong 
proof of rcrn lining confidence, — /shall leave 
Annette in your care, /could have wished 
to confide her to rny honored mother's care ; 
but the mother shall not be bereft of all. 
Wh.-in /am assured that you I ave resisted 
temptation for one your, / shall return to you 
and to my country, but Mary, if that time 
never comes / will lay my bones in the fath- 
er-land." 

How little of the real mi*nrv of this fallen 
world is known to the dwellers on its bosom! 
How little is known of the struggles of our 
onward j - urney, even by our felhuv-prilgrim: ; 
the keenest miseries of our life lie below tlx 
surface. My husband's absence passed witl 
the world us a mere business transaction; its 
real cause was never told. 

/mustcou-ludy my melancholy story. Tu 



a little, and then made a few convulsive 
movements. After the operation, w hich on- 
ly occupied a few seconds, the patient was 
placed in a recumbent position, and active 
means were resorted to bring her from a state 
of coma, into which she had apparently fallen, 
but she never breathed again. The death 
must have been instantaneons, for she never 
moved, nor showed the smallest sign of life 
after the convulsive movements described. 
There was no post-mortem examination. — 
Loud. Med. Gaz., for July. 

M. Gorre, Surgeon-in-chief tp the Hospit- 
al of Boulogne, who has devoted much atten- 
tion to this subject, says: 

"Chloroform in certain kinds of constitu- 

ion, uhifh it is absolutely impossible for the 
•nail of science to recoqnise, may cause death 

vith a lightning-like rapidi y. Even in ex- 
perienced hands,, there is no certain safeguard 

•gainst the unfor unate consequences of this 
agent, which only too well justify the wi.rds 
applied by M. Flourens to chloroform, "o 
marvellous and terrible agent." 



(u^r-Dr Bailey, in a'lusion to Mr. Cla 's let- 
ter, savs; "the spirit of his letter is Anti-Sla- 
very." 

Mr. Clay, in his let'er says; without trans- 
portation, -'he is utterly opposed to anv 
scheme of emancipation." How much anti- 
slavMy spirit does this breathe? 

We think there is no rc«7 anti-slavery spirit 
manifested in Mr. Clay's letter. All the e- 
mancieation it advocates, is from necessity. 
He ird " d does make the important admission, 
that slavery is unjust, and that the argumen's 
used in favor of it are fallacious as almost 
any slave-holder will admit when hard push- 
•d. But this letter proves the pro-slaverv 
spirit of Henry Clav, especially if considered 
in connection with the fact that he holds a- 
bout 60 slaves himself which are not in the 
least interfered with bv hi-> scheme of eman- 
cipation. But after all go-d often comes out 
of evil, and Mr. Clav's letter will without 
!oubt produce some ben' ficial results. 



A New Orleans Correspondent of the N 
fork Herald. 8>> ya that he is informed that 
G n, Ta>h r "has within a day or U\o, pur- 
chased another large sugar ornate.' ' 



The last Congress ended its session < n the 
fourth inst. with fight in each House. 

Mr. Polk's administration has been truly 
afkhling admiiiistrati n. To the incossa t 
usua 1 fighting among congressmen. We have 
had added a war with Mexico. And in 'his 
most unrighteous of all wars, Gen. Tayh>r 
laid 'he fountla ion of his claims to the Pres- 
idency by figfiting. 

The last session i f Congress b 's done lit- 
tle or nothing for liberty or humanity, except 
that a few good anti-slavery speeches. have 
been made and pub ished to the world. 
Mo-it of the members have labored to put off 
action on the California question, most prob. 
in order to give the slave holders time to car- 
y out their schemes, and prepare the way for 
slavery in the newly acquired te-rritori' s; and 
we fear that our nor hern dough faces will 
let them have their own way about it. 



HENRY CLAY'S LETTER. 

Mr Clay has written a letter on emancipa- 
tion in K' ntucky which the Editor of the 
Newark Sentenel calls a "philantharopic and 
high toned Utter," for what reason we are at 
a loss to conceive, unless it isbeciuse Mr. 
Clay has been called a great man, and there- 
fore cannot i>erp< trate a foolish thi-g. In nu 
a^e when Turks § Algerines arc abolishing 
slavery and the spirit of freedom is abroad 
-very where, it is not to be supposed that 
Henry Clay would begin a Jefer on emanci- 
pation, without characterising- S'avery as a 
great evil, regret its introduction into this 
Countrv unl make some proposa's forgetting 
rid of the it. 

But what is his plan of emancipation? he 
savs: 

First, "ihat it should b.> slow in its open- 

tion." 

Second, "that, ns nn ind'tspensible condi- 
tion, the emancipated Slaves >hould be re- 
moved from the State to someCnlonv." 

Thirdly, "that the expense of their transpor- 
tation to such colony, including an outfil for 
six months after their arrival should be de- 
frayed by a fund to be raised from the labi r 
of each freed Slave." # 

When is this emancipation to begin? Mr. 
Clay suggests, "that a period sh< u'd be fixed 
when all born after it, should Ic free at a 
certain age, all b fore it remaining pfaves for 
life," and that this peiiod should be 185ft or 
I860, and that a'l born after that period shon d 
be/;«c at the ag- of two. tv fire, and then ta- 
ieii into custouy of the tJierill' or some, other 
officer appointed for that purpose, and hired 



out for throe years to raise the means to 
transport them to Liberia or some other plnp 
selected lor that purpose. How truly "phil- 
anthropic and high toned," eleven years be- 
fore the first act can take effect, and 28 years 
mor > before the first slav * can have his free- 
dom: 3D years then before the fust slave can 
be ready for transportation under Mr. Clay's 
"philanthropic" plan. 

Mr. Clay seems to be aware that this plan 
would matte slavery perpetual, as main 
slaves would have children before 23 year? 
of age, the* • he says should bo apprentice* 
until 21, and then hired out forthr- e \ "ears to 
earn the means of transportation tho onh 
terms upon which they can have their free 
dom, for he says: "withont it, Ish- uld be ut 
terly opposed to any scheme of emancipa- 
tion." But we a k, would not this even be 
a perpetuation of slavery? The apprentice- 
ship of colord peo, le in Ketueky would on- 
ly be slavery under another name, many ol 
them wou'd have children before 21, and 
consequently this apprenticeship Mould be 
perpetual, and any one can perceive, that this 
system would be si.avimy in any community 
where prrjuriice against color is so utterly in- 
curable as Mr Clay says it is in Ken'ucky. 

In his plan of Colonization, Mr. C. seems 
to und rstand lha there would be many pain 
ful sepaintions between the emancipated 
skyes and their parents and also wi h then- 
children, but his "phranthiopy" soon settles 
this matter, in the latter casts by saying that 
the separation would be only t< mporary, as 
the children would soon be ready for "trans- 
portation also; and in the former case, by 
saying that the emancipated, being of mature 
age w.-uld no longer need the fostering care 
of th ir parents. Mr. Ch.x 's "high toned 
philanthiopy" wou'd extinguish all patermv 
aff.-c-ion among the colored population of 
Kentucky. It does not seem to enter into 
his soul, that tli ■ c lonis s could fee any 
pa n ul emotions on leaving th« ir a ed a- d 
toil wor<> parents to suff -r and die in a land 
of "bondnire and degradation," among their 
cruel and heartless opprossors, wi.h->ut a 
friend to comfort them Mr. C's perfect 
hcnrtles-mess, will not only compel th" slaves 
to leave Kentucky forever without the poor 
pr vilege of ever reiurnin:; but will extin- 
guish, some of the best feel ngs of their na- 
tures, or co npal them to li«D in painf 1 anx- 
iety over the fate of their unfortu ate parepts, 
fr-.mwhom they are forever set ernted, with- 
out even a rav of hope, and cut off from all 
possibility of adminstering that comfort to 
them in th. ir declining years which is due 
from their own offsprings. Mr. C. has no 
place in his narrow heart for the w retched be- 
ings that are to live, and die under that abom- 
inable system which he has labored all his life, 
in public and in private, to build npand per- 
petuate. The Emancipation that his plan 
proposes for the s'aves of Kentucky, savors 
not a little of the plan of trarsrortation to 
Botanv Bay. Not so good in one seme, for 
the government p.id the expenses to Botany- 
Bay, while the unfortunate victims of Ken- 
tucky injustice must furnish their own ex- 
penses to Liberia. If lh« colonists from 
Kentucky w ill have the benefits ofint --rcouse 
with other n .tions they will not be indebtid 
to Mr Clay for the privilege for his plan con 
templates their eternal banishment Tom all 
territory undor Kentucky legislation, what- 
ever desin* they might have to revisit th« ir 
native land and the friends of th ir youth, 
and however important it might be for them 
to do so, they are not free to set their feet upon 
Kentucky soil. Glorious freedom, that the 
"hi^h toned and philanthropic letter" of Hen 
ry Clay proposes for the outraged poor of his 
state. His sympathies are nil, as they al- 
ways have been with the slave-holders . His 
pi in contemplates their interests, and throws 
around them all the safegards possib'e. Bu' 
we have written more than we intended ant' 
will conclude by saying that we consider th> 
letter of Mr Cay one of the most hearties, 
and contemptible things ev»r penned. I 
shows neither wisdom nor pood principle 
No truly great man could ever write such ; 
letter. It is vastly behin I the age. 



WISDOM'S MESSENGER. 
No. 2 

Wisdom's Hoes is the IIcos of Wi.-dom's cil- 
dren, a sityset upon the hi! of Zion,.the only 
rest'ng plac f- r the human sol. Krist, the 
wisdom and pceer of God, is the bilder end 
King of this bees "bus hoes we ar" sed Pie . 
"bilt up a spiritual hces, a holy preslhud, t< 
to > fit r up spiritual sakrifises.'' "Ye ar God's 
bilding" sed Peel, " o al l.u ar sanktified ii. 
Krist, b> -;mg biptised by \uin spi>it; or purifi- 
•d and united to God, by the inward opera 
ion os his on pee. r. 

"As many as ar 'eil by the spi ■ it ofG<>d,ar 
he suns ( f God, A habitation f r God thru 
he spirit.'' Wun 'hing have I desired sed 
die Samist, and that wil 1 seek for that I 
mite dwel in the hoes "f the Lord al the da 7 
of in 5' life. The foliation of God standet 
sure the Lord no th them that ar his" 

No man is in Wisdom's hces withcet noin'o 
it, for her waz ar waz of plesentnes and al her 
paths ar p se. ' When we enter wis lom,s 
hass, and ar festing at h' r furnished tables 
we can adopt the languaje of Mary as cer on 
viz. , My sol doth roagn'.fi fhe Lord, and in- 
spirit hath rejoisetl in God my savio-, for ht 
that is mi'y hath dor.'' to me gr at things, aiu' 
holy is his name. He hath filled the hungry 
with iiood things, an I the rest he hath s. n 
emty away." 

The hoes of wisd- m is the cure of Ksist 
ink'uding al on erth, who ar in union with 
God, thru Krist the wisdom and the power of 
G >d inwardly reveled. But cure or bee-, kan 
not b brat to perfekt order, un-it al i s mem 
'lers r sev ■ and oba the cetward manifestation 
of J sus Krist. 

"Now we hal the happy i'an!ng, 

Of the Gospl s Gb'i'i' s lit, 
Ma it take the wings of morning; 

And dispel the sha 's of nite. 
What the beasN of pra ar proeling, 

And the nm derus serpent his 
Thar i xcang the dismal heeling, 
Fof the plesiug ka m of pes, 

B'e-sed savior, 
Ler cer eyes behold the sit. 
0!i lot the world reseve the, 

Universal b thy faro, 
Kings and Kingdoms fal before the, 

And extaJth* macl'S u-me." 
Yes let al p' pie prok am Je.su-!, as inded he 
is "King of Kings and Lord of Lords." Let 
them her him, bus gospel has disannulled al 
other laws and re-ev his kingdom whic is 
perfekt and entire withcet the aid of human 
devise. Yes the saings of Jesus Krist, when, 
reseved and obad by the universal family of 
man, wil unite them as the hart of wun man, 
and with pad ih-» wil sa "We ar komplet in 
him." Dolttr ns and kommandments of men, 
and divisions of sekts and nations wil perish 
with thar using. Krist's nam wil b above ev- 
ery other n;im for it wil b sen that in no oth- 
er nam or order of things but h's, kan salva- 
tion b fcend from sin ar.d error. Then Sol- 
vation pceer honor and glory wil b askribec! 
to hi. n that sets upon the throne of Zion. 
For the Father haz | lased him thar. ' ' i'e 
men of Zsrel" soz P ter hi r thes wort's "Je- 
sus of Nazareth a man approved of Cod bv 
mink'es and wunders and sins whic God did 
by him in the midst of you. Giv or, O peph 
to his he; inklin ur erz to the wurt's of his 
mceth. Why t'o the h» then rage and the pe- 
pdimajin a van thing," in supping that thar 
Lses of brut fors and slavry wil stand agans' 
the immutable las of pes and ecpjal'ity that 
Jesus preklames in the nam if the oter 
ual. The Kings of the erth set thenwelm 
up, and the rulers of the sceth take kosnsf l 
together agan.»t the Loid and h's Anoint, d 
o kanie to brak evr ry yoke and set the kap 
ive fr-. Lei us ' rak thur bands assundcr a 
ha, ar.d kast awa tl.tir kords of truth. H. 
hat sitteth in the levi ns si al laf, ll e J on! 
hal hnv them in derision, vni v« x tl.t m it 
'« sor disdfeslitir Fo le 7. "J }■< \ m 
yKingcjtn n.i lolj l-il ti Z.in." t \ 



the hethen ar given him for an inberitans and 
i!Te uttermost parts of the erth for a persua- 
sion." An l he is nee braking tlx m up viith 
the rod of iron, (Gosple truth) and dashing 
them to pesos like a potters vesst 1. Kis the 
Mtn dy reseving h's a\ for thos 1 u do r/e 
dial b damned. "Stand in ic th.arfor, and mi 
lot, kommun with ur on hart; upon ur bed, 
md b stil. Offer the sakrifis ofriteusnes and 
put ur trust in the Lord." 

"Not al the nob. Is of th- erth, 
Hu host tsie oners of thar Lirlh, 
Sue real dignity k,an k'am, 
Aa thos hu bar the kristsans nam. 
Wi.-dom hath bilded her l.ces, she hath hun 
cet Ler sevni pilfers of kr : ^tian virtues and 
ordinnnses on whic it stands, and al bu her 
and oba the saings of Jesus Krist, poses thos 
seven virtues ami sustati thos seven ordinan- 
ces, and the G;its of Hel kannot preral aganst 
them. ■ . 

"Tho sistems b broken 
And kreturs al fal, 
The word ha h;nh spoken 
Shai shu ly prepval." 

M. H. Barton. 

' Note. In the f.tove article, ce reiTPEcnti 
he sound of on; ae the s< uad of sua, and c, 
he sound i f eh. 



I For the New Jersey Freeman. 

Friends ef Jesus Christ. 

"Ye are my friends," said Jesus Christ "if 
ye do whatsoever I command you." Ifthb 
rule be applied to the professed followers oi 
Cbr st, the number of his real fri nds w ill be 
found to be small. A few lodsfrom where 
i sit, stands a great hous decoratt d within 
and without. On the ncwyear day its iuraates 
kept what is called open house, i. e, They 
made a great fe^ist for the rich and the great. 

It in said that Cakes decorated their tables 
that cost three d-llars ap' ice, And that the 
ccs' of the feast was not le>s than £300. 
The n an and woaian who made thw feast, 
are the professed followers of him who said 
"When hon makest a di ner or a supper, call 
not thy fr onds, nor thy rich neighbo>s, hut 
when thou makest a feast, call the poo?, the 
maimed, the kuwe the b ind, for they cannot 
leccompence thee " The poor, and that to 
among the disciple s- of Jesus that live all 
round '.he mans on in which this feast w as 
served, and \et I persume not one of them 
was there; and I hav<' not h ard of one «>i 
them receiving of the f.a ments of the feast. 

I know of b .t one ciass < f christains wfco 
obi y th - command of Christ, i:i this rh'ng. 
and that is the Dunkers. 1 krow of one man 
however of A.bany w.ho in consequence of his 
beginning to obey this command of Jesus, 
was [tronounced by 'hree Priest u e'er > ath to 
be insane. And a violent effort was made t» 
take his property from him, h cause he com- 
menced giving alms to the jioor. But I hea'- 
of no attempt to take the property of my 
ueighbor from him because be has been giv- 
ing some of it to the rich. "If a man loves 
me" sa\s Jesvw "he w i i keep my command 
nvnt-" — I once hear an infidtr say to a group 
f professed chrisfains "With the Bible in my 
hand I assert that either you are hypoerits or 
lesns was an impostor." I' must confess 
that as a general th°i"g, the infide's of our land 
ict more in conforn.Sy with the precepts ol 
lesus than his professed followers. 

"The f.ce of Jesus" says Lippard, "bow 
lives, and goes beaming among dark huts, as 
t b'-amed in da- s i fold." It comes at dead 
if night and looks upon the slumbering Ci'y: 
ifd believe m>-, its tears fall afresh — tears foi 
h;it vast Brotherhood of To;l»w ho, for six 
housarcl years have had one ho ribJte liturgj 
hanti'd to- them by priest, an i burned into 
heh- harts by the fiery sword of kings — Toi' 
uid die — Toil and die. Its bitterness deep 
ued by tears and blood, will ?oon bej ouret 
pon tho oppressor who cause i it. The nisrh 
f ag 's fs passing, and' the day c' God is near.' 
Ne-.vark J'au tli 1£4D- B 



INFIDELITY. 

I once, like Thomas Pain, proclaimed its- 
« ft tl e only and perfi ct guide < f „ian. Tl e 
Pr. phe-e and Apostles and the Testimony of 
Jesus I i ut on a par w ith the writings af 
Mahcmet' 

But a severe fit of sickness caused mo to- 
setkand :o find a Phy>ician, and a balm f..r 
my afflicted soul and body superionto reason 
or nature. Whilst, as 1 supposed the cruel 
hand of death « as feeling aftt r my heart-stings,.. 
/ looked up through nature to nature's G< d. 
I f. It the need of a balm tl at w as invisible- 
and supernatural; and While tears of repen- 
tance bedewed my eyes, my hi art rivid with 
angniidi I eiied out "God be merciful to tfeat 
sinner; ai:d 1 found that 

"A brused reed be will not hreal:, 
But hearts that bow before him, 
Shatl own his mercy while they ache, 
And greatfuly adore him." 
Yes through reptnlar.ee, faith and svlmis- 
nion to God, 1 began lo comprehend with a'L' 
saints the breadth and ler.glh, the Lejghih und' 
,'dedth of Divine mere ; r.r.d toEnt w the love 
God which po.-st seth knewhtlj, that 1 mi«ibfc- 
be filled with the fulnos of Gcd, end krow 
the greatness- of ]^i* power to usw: -id. who,, 
believe accnrdirff to- the woikirg of his* 
mighty power %\ithin No man syeskirg: 
by the spirit, or knowing Gee. can call JcrvK- 
■.tt-cursed. The revelation s of Gcd and his 
truth through Jrsus, 1 own rs Icirg tiue 
aud perfect. But this 1 carrot fay of the 
revelations of Main rait, of Smith, of Stewart, 
or Davis. They all prefess 1o tepeitt ic cr 
perfect the testimony of Jesus. Dut with 
Paul, 1 think h is r.i.me aLcve eveiy ritme. 
Every Iruarpet 1 ut his, to rey ears gives cm 
uncer^r.i-n sotrr.d.. Much truth is found in 
the Koran, the lor.k of M> lmcn, the tl alur 
Roll ar.d in Davis's rere'ath is, 1 ut .'o iar ts 
they differ from Jefus .'hey are wrerg. "For 
God, who cocsmandeth the li{.ht to thine tut 
of da'kness, hath shone in our halts, to gi»e 
the knowledge of the glory of Gcd in the face 
of Jesus Christ" Amen. 

M. H. B. 



THE QU.dKER PROPHETESS. — A. 
mong the first.of those who o y } oh d ll e j la 
tice of slaveholdi;igawas a female Friend resid 
ing in Virginia, ai d for this opposition she 
was di; owned from her Religious Society" 
When on her death bed she sentforthe commi 
tleewho had treated witn her, told them tha^ 
t,he nearadproach of death haclnot alteredhcr 
mind on the subjec of Slavery, and then gently 
,uwaving her hand toward a very fertile and a 
butiful tract of country that lay before her win- 
dow, she said w ith great solemnity; Friends 
the time w ill-come when there will not be- 
Friends enough in this district to ho/da meeting 
for worship, and this garden will be turned in • 
o a w i/ ernes?,, There were at the time sev- 
-n meetings of Friends in that part of Virgin- 
ia but they have all /ong since been dost rfed 
and he coutry /itera/7y deso/ated. — Non - 
S/avcholder- 



EXTRACT FROM LUTHER; 

"With out me ye can do nothing." This- 
pa-sage teces that we must b absorbed by 
Krist, so that we ourselves shud no longer- 
akt, but that Krist shud live in us. As the- 
Divine natnxe has been maJe enc body with- 
man ia Krist, so shud man b incorporated by- 
faith with Jesus Krist. 

The muiiiplisity of Laws in matters of con- 
science has filed the world with sekts ami" 
divi,ion-:. The hatred, thence, engendered- 
betwen Priest, Monks and I.aity, is even- 
grater than that -tvhic exist betwen SCristians- 
ind TurSs. Ec fs devoted to his oi^ sekt,. 
ind dispises ali others. The unity and lover- 
of Krist is broken up and distroyed. 



The path that lends to fortune too often 
•■asses through the narrow defiles of me a n^ 
.ess £c crime Which a mau of a pure -and ex- 
alted spirit cannot stoop to tread. 



i 



a EK)i& « !ifi iafa 



-rrr- — 



POETRY. 



From the tTafer Cure Journal. 
HE ALT II STANZAS* 

BY llffS; A; C. JUDSO.V. 

There arc pearls from the ocean',- 

Arid gold from the mine, 
An l gem* of rich Uauty 

flesjjleftdehtly sfiiftej 
Ami coronets gleam 

\V. : ;h the diamond si rare, 
Most precious! none oilier 

Can with it compare. 

There arc many things cosily 

Arid bright o'er the earth, 
To things of great beauty 

HafhGo'd given birth: 
Yet fertihiw, and bettor. 

And choicer than wealth, 
Pearls, g ms, or the dirmoud, 

The treasure of Health. 

Who, who rt-ould not seek itj 

And who does not prize 
This best of all blessings 

That's found 'Heath the skies? 
Yet oft it is bartered 

By rnany for riaught, 
Save some gross employment 

Not wtJrthy their thought; 

Awrtv with all viands, 

All sumptuous fan — 
Let me but this blessing 

0/ health peer share; 
I'll court not the honors 

A' Fashion's loved shrine, 
While the wealth nf the ludieS 

Can ne'er equal mine. 

Oh, give me a bfoa hing 

In pare air of heaven, 
Which God in great mercy 

To mortals hath given; 
And let m" drink, « ft, 

From the bountiful spring* 
Which flow forth so freely, 

To gladden all things. 

My diet be simple. 

As Nature ctoaignfld, 
For hea th of the body, 

And strength for the mind; 
Then toil will be pleasant, 

Refreshing my rest; 
And life, though so chequer'd, 

Be peaceful and blest. 

The first slaves introduced in 
this country were by a Dutch, ship 
in 1G20. at James Kiver, 

The bill to abolish corporeal 
punishment in the Navy has been 
defeated in the Senate. The New 
Jersey Senators, Miller & Dayton 
both voting in favit of the icfiij). 

CO X S I ST R NC Y— 1 he wh ig> 
professed to be vety much opposed 
to the Mexican war. The New 
-Jersey Legislature composed of a 
large majority of Whirrs have been 
Voting swords to a number oi the 
Volunteers in that war- of course 
they take (lie peoples money to paj 
for them With. 

The Sultan of Turkey has issued a decre< 
according to Christians the privilege of attair, 
ing the highest dignities, even that of Pacha 
•&. Vizier. The spir.t of reform is universal. 
Free religious toleration is the unceasing de- 
Inand of the people every where; potentates 
are yielding to this incessant demand and 
the oppressed and persecuted of all nation* 
"w ill be victorious if true to dvmslves. 

{^NATIONAL ERA. This papjr pub 
lished at Washington by. Dr Bailey, main- 
tains its claims uqon the people for support — 
It is ably conducted and is one of the mosi 
Useful papers of the land— Let all who wish 
to enjoy a feast of literary matter, and learn 
the most important political news of the day 
take that paper. 



Tobacco.* 8 - Paid, in one of tin 
most solemn chapters he ever wrou 
illudes to the value ofgcod maner> 
A good mannered man, or a gentle 
main, is one ti ho never allows him 
>elf in any indulgence that can pos 
sibly be an annoyance to other* 
The use of tt>haeco is offensive U 
dl persons save those who are ac- 
customed to it. Can a man be t 
gentleman w ho chews or smoke; 
tobacco in the presence of ladies 
and breaths his pestiferous breatl 
into their very faces'? 

There are men who travel in tin 
cars every day, w hose 'mouths an 
bulged out with tobacco, and Iron 
the juice of w hich a constant spit- 
ing is kept up, — not only to the in- 
jury of clothing and nerves, but to 
the carpels, mats and seats. These 
chew ers are men who pass for gen 
tlemen. We wish every chewcr 
and smoker of mis most nasty weed, 
could know how disgusting he ren- 
ders himself to all who are about 
him. He never can have an en- 
lire consciousness of the utter filth- 
mess of this habit, until he leaves 
it off. 

At any rate, a man that fouls l is 
own mouth, should be compelled 
to keep himself to himself. If he 
w ishes to travel, let him understand 
that there are second class cars, 
provided especially for his use. 
Smokers are not allow ed to puff in 
the be«t cars. Why should chew- 
ers? A>k al .dy w hich she would 
prefer to have seated beside by her, 
a smoker or a chew er, and she will 
say unhesitatingly, the former. It 
is too bad to have one of these foul 
mouthed men seated by you in a 
rail-road car- If his breath was 
punly tol.accohh it might be borne: 
but it is an awful compound of fe- 
tid vapors. Wo to t he man or wo- 
man of delicate nasal fibres, wh » 
shall be caught by the side of such 
a sink. Time and again we have 
been so caught, but have uniformly 
changed our place or stood up. 
Chrstian World 



The following as a Valentine wan recently 
received by a consumer of the "filthy weed." 

Great smoker of the filthy weed, 
Who: e very looks would fever breed; 
Your mouth d»-cked out with steam & spittle 
Looks like a vile soap boiler's kettle: 
Your nose a d rty chimney flue, 
Where smoke k suot come pow ring through 
I'd rather wed a steam engine, 
Than such a filthy Valentine. 



CLARK'S LIBERTY MINSTREL, 
tor vale at this Office. 



Puff, Puff, Puff. — Dr A'cott says: from 
one end of the Commonwealth to the other, 
, i is Puff, Puff, Puff. He wenl to town to 
deliver a Lyceum Lecture, and asked what 
they wantd, and they said a lecture ou tobac- 
co. 

"Our boys," said they, "all over town as 
soon as they are knee high begin to smoke." 

H ■ gave the lec tire, and hit ofl'tobacco as 
we ; l as he cou'd, when he found to his sur- 

>rise,he had been hitting offthe Rev. Dr 

who was the oldest and principle offender. — 
No young man says Dr. Alcott, who uses to- 
bacco, in any shape whatever, hut especial l\ 
no one who hangs often at the extremity of a 
rill of it, even though his feet should touch 
terra ferma is or can he safe. He is apt to 
thirsty; and water never satisfies. 



GREAT MEETING NEAR THE 

CHINESE MUSEUM. 

At a gr at National, Tyy'or Whig, Repub 
can Meeting, recently I. eld as ah' ve, th- 
• illowing resolu i r>s were a*'cpUd. 

Resolved 1; That ;.s the man after <nJ 
earts is now safely 'oged in the whit house, 
it becom s us as men jealous of our rights 
nd true to our master's cau<e, to look abou 
ii time and sicure the notnin 4ion of a nun 
f suitab'e character and availability, for Pros 
dentin 1852. 

2; As ability to fight like a Tiger, is an 
ndispensabl^ qualification for that high office, 
•ve know of no man more entitled to oursuf- 
rages than Thomas Hyer. 

3; That Thomas Hyer is one of the hard 
'sled Yeomanry of the countrv, and is thre. 
•ore entitled to the votes ofall working men 

4; That Thomas Hyer '-is a whig hut no 
ni ultra whig - " 

5; That, as it is indispensible, in order t( 
"it a man for the highest office in the gift of a 
FREE PEOPLErthat he should be a hoi - 
er of slaves; a committee be appointed to en- 
quire of Thomas Hyer whether he possesses 
that important qualifica ion, and if not, to so 
licit Gen. Tavlor, in order to supply the de- 
ficiency, to bestow upon him a part of his 
300 s'aves. 

Playing the Devil. — We are a good 
deal amused at an anecdote we heard the 
other day, of a certain preacher whose call- 
ing confined him within the limits of old Ken- 
tucky. He had preached in his parish many 
years, and of course run short of the elo- 
quence so much reeded to keep his hearers 
awake astonished. Let him preach ever so 
well now, it made no difference, thev had got 
used to him and used :o sleeping; and sleep 
they would to his g e it anno ance. At last 
he hit upon a'i expedient to brin<; 'em up 
standing, as the saying is. Hs procured a 
smal 1 tin wh-stle, which li<* took wi h him 
into the pulpit, and after taking 1 is text and 
"blazing away" until his lun<rs were sore and 
his hearers all comfortably dozing and nodd- 
ing approval to each other, he suddenly drew 
it forth and gave a shrill tnoa-toot. In an 
ins'ant the « hole congregation was awake 
and upon their feet, ^taringat the minister, a 
■ach other, and wondering '-' hat in the nam- 
of pickles and human nature, as Sam Slick 
says, was to cme next. "You're a set of 
smart specimens of humanity, ain't you ?" 
said the divine whistler, as he slowly gazed 
around on his nsstonished assemblage. 
"When I pn ach the Gospel to you, you a'l 
go to sleep; but the moment I goto playini! 
the devil \ ou're all wide awake, up and a 
coming like a rush of hornets with a pole in 
their nest !" — Emancipator. 



^OUTLINES OF A NEW' SlTEM 
OF PHYSIOGOMY illustrated with numer- 
ous enjrravi gs; is a pamphlet of about ICO 
pgaes, l.y J. S' Redfield, Clinton Hall N. Y. 
price 25 cents. 

This is a very interesting hook on Phy-i- 
ogomy, a very interesting subject, and will no 
doubt be read with satisfaction and profit 1 y 
*ny who may give it a perusal. 



GUIDE TO HEALTH AND LONG 
LIFE or what to Eat Drink and moid, also, 



HOW TO BE HAPPY- 
Culverwel M. D. 



-by Robert. J. 



Qucre? If a man is too poor to 
take a newspaper, how much To- 
bacco can he afford to use? 



These two pamphle's, published by J. S 
Redfh Id, Clinton Hall N. Y., contains m»> y 
very us -ful directions reUting to the subject 
■specified in the titles, and may be read with 
{real profit by all those who are qualified to 
istingu sh truth from error. In treating of 
ating and drinking, the author gives an al- 
lost unlimited indulgence in all things cra- 
• ed by the appitite of man. Hurtful things 
ire, it is true condemned, bu' after all, there 
is a kind of half-wa- approval of them con- 
lected with his rema-ks on all things eaten 
ind drank, even to the use of intoxicating 
Jri ks. We do not advise tee-tota'lers not to 
read these books, but we do advise them not 
o be caaght napping when they do read them, 
'n reading these books men will not be very 
ake'y to lose their carnivorous propensities. 
They are sold for 25 cents each. 



THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL 

tor March is received. It contai- s a history 
of Tiuman H Stafford, a youth of 13 years, 
who at the age nine and a half calculated Al- 
manacs and did iiiny other things truly won- 
derful, an article on Temperam ms, Oat 
on Post office reform, Beee ers Lectors on 
Idleness, and various other things, all very 
valuable. 

The Journal is pnblished by Fow lers and 
Wells 131 Nassau Str. et N. Y. at on dollar 

a year. 



IWM AND CHOLERA, 

Are twin brothers, an ' most amicably do they 
agree in the distinction of the human race. 
After the cholera ceased in Albany, in 1832. 
an inquiry was instittued into the habits o 
every person swept away by th" disease. 
The following, which we f.nd in the Nation- 
al Era, is the result. Rum drinker- 1 , cidei 
guzzlers, and tipplers ofall c'asses, read and 
reflect. 

Intemperate, 140; free drinkers, 55; mod- 
erate, drinkers (mostly habitual,) 131; strict- 
ly temperate (all but one committed somr 
excess in eating, that one was neglected bv 
an intemperate husband,) 5; members of tem- 
perance societies, 2; idiot 1; unknown, 2;— to- 
tal 336. 



fje>>\ Teacher of Penmanship, it is said re- 
cen'lv 'au'.'ht a Lawyer in tw« lve lessons, to 
read his own writing. 



Aoricultuhk and War. Elihu Burre' 
says the whole agricultural labor of Englani 
last year cost £ IS. 200. COO. The war d< - 
partmeut for the same time cost £ 18. 50f . 
000 



(^NATIONAL REFORM ALMANAC 

for 1849. 

This is an excellent doci-rmnt jus* pub 
lished and for sale at he office of the Young 
America, nt 56 Chatl am Street. Y. N. 

All land reformers should secure a copy off 
this a manac for themselves, and and i • 
its circula io — It contains a cj civ colk-.e- 
lion of things v tv important for a'l toknav 



^ AMERICAN AND FOREIGN An- 
ti Slavery office is at 6] Job . Street, N. Y , 
where an assortment of At'ti-SJavery, Book*, 
Pamph'ets. Tracts can be had no reasonable 
tern 5— address William Hamed at the of- 
fice. — 



FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE— 
The Liberty Almanac for 1849. No 
friend of freedom should b»- w ithoit this ex- 
••llent collection of valuable tl.in^s 

ALSO, PHRENOLOGICAL^ WATER 
CURE and TOBACCO Almanacs. 



(^CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physi dogy Agriculture and Commerce, by 
Professor LIEBIG, price 20 cents, publi-hed 
by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themselvs 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, # 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCHI 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at th s office. These books should 
be lead by every friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
<ale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
•cots. It is of great importance t' at all 
•ecome acquainted w'th the cause and cure 
>f dis< ased Teeth. This pamphlet fm m-hts 
;ome >aluabe light on the subj* ct. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT —Argument 
if Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
shment, a pamphlet published bv the New 
»fork State Society, for sale at this Office. 



♦ 





Truth invites full and free Disctisson ; Mrror shrinks from all Investigation. 



ol. 3. 



Ioowtoh", August 24, 1849. 



No. 1 2. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor, 
Boonlon, Morris County, JVcio Jersey. 



TERMS: 
(Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 

I numbers '■ ■"'"■i I'..'' 

5 copies to- one address for one dollar. 
k\\ feoiamanicatioTis must be post paid. 



From the Liberator. 
NORTHERN CHTl.jTiA.SS, RB#Bj 
T HIS! 

Mb. Editor, — The following communi- 
cation was sent me by the author, without 
the most distant idea of its being requested for 
publication. By urgent request, she has con- 
sented to allow it to appear in print, {jjhe is 
a lady of your city, of high respectability, and 
sound moral integrity. She was converted 
to the principles of our heaven-originated en- 
terprise, as will be seen by the letter; by be- 
ing an eve-witness of the cruelties and mon- 
strosities, natural to that mother of all abom- 
inations, American slavery. 

We dedicate this letter to the especial ben- 
efi' of pro-slavery ministers and church 
members, who think we are going beyond the 
bouuds of Christian charity, in withdrawing 
fellowship from slaveholders. Such per- 
sons must be either egregiousiy ignorant or 
very disohnest. I am willing to believe that 
some are honest in their distrust of the duty 
of our withdrawing Christian fellowship from 
«//who practice slavery, but that many are 
dishonest and hypocritical, I can have no 
reasonable doubt. The tact with such is 
they are deficient in moral courage, and to- 
tally destitute of that simple, implicit trust in 
God, that will lead us to deny ourselves, and 
take our cross and follow wherever the gos- 
pel leads the way. If such persons as Mr. 
W., described in the letter of our friend, pos- 
sess the meek and blessed spirit of Him who 
came to preach deliverance to the captive, 
and the. opening of the prison doors to them 
that are bound,' what villian does not '? If 
any man have not the spirt of Christ he is 
none of his. I can no more bring myself to 
believe that Mr. W., of Liberty County, Ga. 
or any who practice the system of slavery, 
possess true Christianity, than I can believe 
the Mohammedan Koran is tha true revela- 
tion of God to men. Bat to the letter. 

Yours, in the bonds of our common hu- 
manity, Joshua T. Everett. 

Frincton, Mass., June 24, 1842. 



TREATMENT OF SLAVES. 

Dear Sir: — I will now fulfil the promise 
which I made you, to relate some, of the facts 
with regard to slavery, which came under my 
observation while a resident at the South. I 
intended to have written you immediately 
"your ret urn home, but numerous and 



doit 



!ng engagements prevented me from so 



I suppose you are aware that it was at the 
South I was thoroughly abolitionized. A 
strange place you may imagine, to be influ- 
enced thus ; but the fact is not more strange 
than true. I am persuaded I could not have 



acquired such a deep and positive hatred to 
that iniquitous system, which is blighting 
the^fairest part of the world, any where but 
in the midst of it, surrounded by its influen- 
ces, and witnessing its effects upon both 
the slave and the master. — It was there, too, 
I was cured of that dreadful disorder of the 
mind, rightly called by Mrs. Child, "color- 
phobia." By being constancy with the color- 
ed people, I soon 1-arned that thej' possess- 
ed hearts and minds like our own, ('a fact 
which many are not aware of,) an I that the 
only real deference is that of the color of the 
skin. I have often seen slaves who pos- 
sessed stronger minds and better hearts than 
their mas'ers. One, in particular; comes up 
before my mind's eye, — one whom I have of- 
ten seen kindly and patiently receiving harsh 
and biter words from 'he lips of his master. 

At one time, the master had been lashing 
the slave's wife, (whom he loved dearly,) 
for some very trivial offence, and the poor 
slave retired to his little hut, and in tears, 
prayed (hat God would soften the heart of 
his "nmssi," and make him a better man. 

Both the master 'and slave were members 
of the same church. With very few ex- 
ceptions, they are grateful creatures, willing 
to do any thing, if they can but receive kind 
words and pleasent looks in return. 

The gentleman with whom I resided was 
a wealthy planter in Liberty County Georgia, 
— He was a member of the Baptist church 
and owned about five hunndred human be- 
ings. He was called by the white people a 
most excellent master. They told me no 
one knew better than he how to manage a 
plantation, which means, 1 suppose, that no 
one could raise, a greater crop of cotton with 
the same number of slaves; a most excellent 
master, I have no doubt- 

Soine have told me that I looked at slave- 
ry in its worst light; that I would see noth- 
ing but the dark side of the picture. Such 
is not the fact. With my eyes wide open, 
I could not ever each a glsmpse of the dark- 
est side, for it is to be seen only on the plan- 
tations where the field slaves work ; and 
white ladies, where- I resided, did not often 
visit those places. They are generally sit- 
uated four or five miles from the planters 
house, and it is very unhealthy to be among 
the cotton fields and rice swamps. — On on 

occasion of attending Mr. W on his 

daily visit to his plantations, I merely rode 
over the ground,, and my observation was 
confined to the bright side, (if such a one 
there- is,) but that was dark" enough, I assure 
you. I will relate to you a circumstance a- 

bout a slave, of whom Mr. owned a 

mortgage. She was a light mulatto, remark- 
able for her beauty, sweetness of temper, and 
capability. Her native place was Charles- 
ton, S. C. % where she was owned by a lady 
of high standing in Church and society, who 
kept Louisa, (for this was her name,) as a 
seamstress. Sitting from day to day in the 
chamber of her mistress, mdustrously plying 
her neenle, she knew comparatively little of 
the sufferings of a slave: but her mistress died 
and Lou ha was sent to market for the first 
time to be sold. Being a valuable slave she 
was purchased by a slave speculator, who 
enric'.ied himself by buying slaves to sell 
again. He carried her to Savannah, where 
she was put up at auction a seccond time, and 
sold to an other man residing in W. As she 
was an excellent dress-maker, her master 
made considerable money by letting her out 
to the white ladies. A few months after, 



as Mr. , to whom I first alluded, had a 

mortgage on her amounting to $1290, she 
fell into his hands. — The p«or girl' was 
very much distressed on hearing that she 
was again to he sold. Not far distant from 

this town resided Dr. R., who was noted I taminatcd by proslnvery doctrines 
even among slaveholders, or his cruelty to his j wicked prejudices. They will ceitain'l 
slaves I will give you a specimen of it, , sist lhv poor sl:ive< by j^. £ ^ ^ 

He tcnd Kosa, the g,r who took care of | heipi f0 slIstain lboK who5ft coasliint d 
his child, that he would pull out one of her,. 4 . , , . 

teeth every time the child cried. The baby ! ! | " * f lc " (1 ™ Dot s P cak ** 

cried frequently as babies will. The Dr 



this diabolical institution how soon it vouil 
be overthrown ! I have great faith in those 
who breathe the pure, free air of our NeW 
England hills. They are of too noble an or- 
igin, and too high a moral sense, to be ron- 

and 
as- 



svas as good as his word; in a short time, 
poor Rosa was w ithout a tooth in her head 
This is not an "Abolitionist story," but a 
fact related to me by the southerners, and 
laughed at by some. — This hardened wretch 
hearing that Louisa was to be sold, said he . wish of your and 
was determined to purchase her, whether she i 
wished to be sold to him or not, and if he 
was obliged to pay twice as much as she wa- 
worth. No words can describe the dee]), un- 
uterable anguish which wrung the heart of 
poor Louisa, on being told of this. Still she 
hoped that Mr. would have com- 



themselves. I do not flatter myself that this 
letter will increase ti e zeal of one who has 
been so long and so zeaiously affected in a 
good cause; but that it may be of some slight 
assistence to you in the conversion of others 
to the gospel of anti-shivery, is the ardent 
he slau-'s friend, 

M. F. 



passion on her, and spII to one of the many 



Cattta!. Punishment in Michicax. — A 
strenuous but unsuccessful eilbrt Las h< en 
made by the apostles of old Darkness, to re- 
store the penalty of death to the MiclaWn 
criminal code, on the grouud that crime had 



others who wished to purchase her. — Ivight j increased there since the abolition of that 
after night, from that time until she was sold j punishment. It was fully shown, however, 
Louisa uould stand patiently waiting at the j that the increase of crime was no larger in 



garden gate, until her master had finished 
his evening meal, and came out to enjoy the 
cool evening breeze and bright sunset ; then 
she would supplicate with him, in the most 
humble manner, while the bitter tears were 
streaming fist from her fine dark eyes, to sell 
her to any but the Dr. Occasionly he would 
try to pacify her by saying the Dr. was not 
so bad, after all, and would, no doubt, treat 
her very kindly if she would obey him. Of- 
ten he would send her away with harsh and 
bitter words, forbiding her to come there 
again bothering him. I interceded for her 
but it di-i no good. He told me, at last, that 
he did not care who in the d — 1 bought her; 
and that he should get the most money he 
could. I was surprised to spe so little feel- 
ing manifested for her by the ladies, but ac- 



Michigan, (if so large,) since that merciful re- 
form, than in other States aiound, where the. 
old punishment is continued, and that it was 
attributed to other causes. The legislative 
committee, after hearing the statments of bdjth 
parties, unanimously reported against restor- 
ing the penalty, and the report was aeeeptod 
by the House, and the matter is put lo rest. 
The eagerness of the advocates of the gal- 
low.; to prevent a fair experiment of a mild- 
er poiicy is indicative of little confidence in 
their own theories. Their policy has been 
tried for thousauds of years, ns we believe, 
with bad results. Surely, it is time to adopt 
some wiser schema, and it', after a thorough 
trial, the milder is found less effetive, it will 



be verv easy to return to the bloody law 
counted for it bv supposing it was to common > , v , , ,, , . ... , . 

\\ c are glad the people ot Michigan are re- 
solved that they will not abandon their exper- 



iment hefo.ie they have tested its operation. 

P< nnsylvania Freeman. 



an occurrence for them to notice. The day 
arrived when she was to be sold. The mar- 
ket was three or four miles distant. 1 did 
not go, as it is not the custom for ladies to | 
visit such place's, and I had no wish to see 

suffering 1 could not alleviate. The account j Humanity to the Prisoner. Within 

of the sale I overheard from Mr. , who j the last year arrangements haw been made 

was relating to his wife; in answer to the I lor thoroughly lighting all the cells in Ohio 
question "who bought Louisa?" said he, "1 1 Penitentiary. The means employed are gas 
have seen many a slave weep upon the stand i lights placed in the area between the ceils 
but I never saw one cry so bitterly as Louisa. | and the other wali?. I\ow every prisoner 
she wept all the time I was carrying her to j can spend his long evening in reading instead 
market, and only ceased for a few moments of being doomed to think in total darkness, 
while the men where biding for her. Two There isa library of several thousand volumes 
or three men where as desirous to purchase i belonging to the prison. If the books are 
her as the. Dr.. they bid to $1000. That of the right stamp, the boon thus conferred 



was as much as they could afford. The Dr. 
bid $1700, and took her. The girl seemed 
heart-broken. I left her, and she was still 
sobbing bitterly." This was the last I ever 
heard from her, as I left the place soon after, 
and nothing more was said about her after 
she was sold. Perhaps many will say, "It 
is dreadful that the feelings of a poor girl 
should be thus sacrificed, for a few paltry 
dollars; but this is no doubt a rare instance 
of the slaveholders avarice. They aie mis- 
taken. I believe thousands have suffered 
in the same way; as many perhaps are en- 
during the same wrongs even now, and will 
have to endure them as long as human suf- 
fering is the support of tyranny. — Shall their 
sighs and tears plead to us in vain? O, if ev- 
ery person in the free States would but lift 
this master died with the' yellow fever, and 1 up his voice, and lend his infiuer.ee a^ivsi 



on the prisoners of our Penitentiary may 
well relieve and cheer the heart of humanity. 

Pennsylvania J'recmnn . 

The first newspaper was printed in Eng- 
and in loM3. The first in Boston was, m 
1 704 — only on one side of half of a sheet 
of post — published by« John Campbell, who 
styles himself Post Master of INew England 
at Boston." — and being 1 believe, literally 
the only Post Master in all New England. 

.May I be pardoned for copying one of his 
early advertisements? "To be sold by the 
printer of this paper the very best negro \i o- 
man in town — who has had the small pox 
and the measles, and is as hearty as a horse, 
as brisk as a bird, and will work like a bea- 
vert" &nanttijjpalci 




SPARE 'THE BIRDS. 

Bf ftr.V- G. Wi BERTHUXE, D. I). 

Spare, spare, the gentle Bird, 

JJor (Jo the warbler wroug, 

the tfrsen wood is heard 
"" Its sweet and gentle sobgl 
Its sons so clear and glad, _ 

Each list'ner's heart has stirred; 
Kw\ none, l»bw sad, 

But blessed that happy bird. 

And when at early day 

The Farmer trod the dew, 
It met him on the way 
' With welcome, blithe and true; 
So, w hen at early eve, 

He homeward wends his way; 
For sorely would he gricife 
To miss the well-Loved lay. 

The mother whohad kept 

Watch o'er her wakelul child, 
•Smiled as the baby slept, 

Soothed by its wood notes wild; 
And gladty bad she flung 

The casement open lice, 
As the dear warbler sung 

■From out the household treo. 

Th° siekman on his beo 

Forgets his weariness, 
•\nd turns his feeble head 

To list its .songs that bless 
His spirit, like a stream 
• Of mercy from on high, 
Of music in the dream* 

That seals the prophet's eye. 

Oh! laugh not at mv -words, 

To wain your childhood's hours; 
Cherish the gtfntle birds, 

Cherish the fragile flowers; 
For since man was bereft, 

Of Paradise, in tears, 
God the sweet things hath left, 

To cheer our eyes and cars. 



From The Spirit of The Age. 
THE NATION'S FAST. 
The solemnities of this day are ended ; and 
now - , when no word of oUrs can hinder or jar 
with any feelings of true piety awakened by 
its mournful rites, wc would try to pass a 
I just judgment upon this act of a People call- 
! ed Christian and Civilized. 
( 1. Whence came the Cholera among r.s ? 
From foul emigrant ships, under whose 
hatches were densely packed, amid heaps of 
I ba^r^e and in an atmosphere poisoned with 
bilge-water, the ragged, ill-fed, squallid, 
weakened wretches, cast out from the great 
Work-House of a world grown old in cor- 
ruption, injustice and misery. 

2. Where, and among what classess, has 
this pestilence prevailed ? 

Chiefly in our overgrown commercial cen- 
ters, along our lines of water and land com- 
munication, and in slave hovels of the South 




THE FM 



BOONTON AUGUST. 24, 1849. 



EZBEItTY, EQ 57a2-E.iT f, 
JFRJITEXZWITY. 



WHY DON'T THEY GO TO SCHOOL? 

A Report of the School Committee read 
at the last annual town meeting, stated that 
eleven colored children had attended the 
schools in the township during the year. 
We know not how many colored children 
there are in the town, but we believe there 
are 16 or 17 school district-, and the Boon- 
..... . . ton district alone contains eighteen colored 

The classes which have been most swiftly children between the aues of 4 and 16 years, 
swept away, were residents in thick cluster- rp[ ius ; t seems that or.ly a small portion of 



Til' 



From the Literary World. 
POOR MAN'S DOINGS. 



ed, unventilated dwellings, whose walls are 
mouldy with miasmatic exhalations from ac- 
cumulated filth,— or crowded passengers in 
steerage,, cabins of steamboats-, alternately 
baked in sultry days by furnaces and chilled 
by nightly damps; or overtasked drudges in 
cotton, sugar and rice fields; all fed, more 
or less on fruit and Vegetables half ripe and 
stale, on innutritions, perhaps putrid meat, 
or sour, ill-baked bread, and drenched with 
distil-house milk, drugged teas and fire-wa- 
ters of every color name and quality. 
I 3. What have been the causts of this 
I world encircling desolation' 
I Making due allowance for the mysterious 
inHuence of subteranean and aromal agents, 
which r doubtless have produced predisposition 
to diseases of the digestive system, >can any 
person of common sense hesitate in assarting 
that the great sceondary causes of this uni- 
versal cafamity have been the physical de- 
gradation, brutal lusts, and exhausting toils 
of vast masses of men, and food, dwellings, 
clothing, and general habits of life, utterlv 
repugnant to human nature'/ Briefly, here is 
the history of this plague. 

Now, wise men, ask yourselves, is Prom 
der.ee answerable for these teeming grave- 



this class in the town' go to school. These 
facts produced the inquiry at the head of ibis 
article. The true answer to the question is, 
they are almost universally made to feel like 
outcasts from society when they enter our 
school houses, by a course of trearment 
from Teacher aud pupils which not only 
degrades them, but deprives them of the or- 
dinary facilities of learning, and hence they 
are unwilling to go. It is true they are not 
in all earn excluded entirely from the 
schools, but they are put in a basement, or 
are made to occupy a negro seat) ; are not 
allowed to read in a class with other chil- 
dren, and in many other • ways their spirits 
are crushed down, they are disheartened and 
unwilling to go to school. We believe that 
few while children would go to sehool under 
| such circumstances. 

In the town of Plainfield, in this State, is 
a public free school, supoitid by a tax levied 
upon the inhabitants without any distinction. 
Last year the colored children, whose parents 



(J^THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE, is the 

title of a new paper that takes the place of 
the Univercoelum, which is discontinued.— 
The Univercelum containned many very val- 
uable article* which did grod wherever they 
were read, but as a general thing was a little 
too much given to the visionary. The Spir- 
it of the Age is edited by Wm. H. Channiug, 
who is well qualified to conduct it in a man- 
ner less objectionable, ami will doubtless 
make it a very valuable paper. It is pub- 
lished weekly by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nas- 
sau street, N. Y., at $2 a year. 

fl&THE WATER CURE JOURNAL, 
AND HERALD OF REFORMS, edited 
by Joel Shew, M. D., published by Fowlers 
& Wells, 131 Nassau street N. Y., monthly, 
at one dollar a year, always contains many 
valuable articles on all subjects appertaining 
to Health and good Morals. It inuculcates 
a gre«t amount of important truth. 

Let all those interested in the use of wa- 
ter as a medicine, (and who should not ie?> 
read the Water Cure Journal. 



BY MRS. MARY E. HEWITT. 

Oh. what were the pride of the rich man'sgold 
Or the worth of each unfilled mod, 
%-ere it not for the rough hard-handed poor 
Who toil for their daily food. 

Whatever of labor the rich man needs, 
From the poor man's hand must come— 

From the cradle rare of the new born heir, 
To the coffin and sculptured tomb. 

The poor man swavcth the seller's axe 

Till the forests far retire ; 
And the city springs- on it* phoenix wings 

O'er thfe brands of the log-house fire- 

He bandetb the earth with iron roads, 
And the steam fed cenrser guides: 

And fearlessly he drives the steeds of the sea 
Wherever the rich man rides. 

He tills the plain till the ripened grain 

Is safe in the garner stored, 
V, 1 with rifle an! snare h? hunteth the tare 
That snv>kes on the rich man's board. 

He twined the costly robes of pride, 

And reWera the stately dome; 
And cleaves from the clod the marble god 

That stands in the rim man's home. 

Th- jauds of beauty, the work of art. 

Whatever vwiv wealth hath brought— 
N;-rv-the very gold ynnr coflm-s hold 
" Ttic poor man's hand hath wrought. 

Thnu health to the rode and thrifty poor, 
< \m\ honor them evermore; . 
They 'mid the turmoil, sarn the wages of toil, 
your fathers did b-jfora. 

And think «h" reward of labor is health, 

That wealth is industry'* friend, 
That change is earth's Law, and soon the see- 
saw 

Miv rist at ths pior man's end. 



yards.andtenantless houses.' i>i d. tne*^ proportion of this tax, were put 

ofAU snatch from thousands of orphans paia tneir proporuv r 

their parents, from trembling age the strong into a basement by taemscves ul ere a 

sunport of sons ? What an outrage upon teacher visited them a few times in the day 
Infinite mercv, to refer to God the horrors L ; nstruct them. Those parents of colored 

which arc the inevitably consequences of g ^ ^ tQ submit t0 such 

man's collective breach of his all blessing ° „u\\A rpn it the 

laws! How far are atmospheric derangements outrages, contmued theft ch, 



e-.THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOG- 
ICAL JOURNAL. — This valuable Journal 
is published by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nas- 
sau street, N. Y., at one dollar a year, 
monthly. R should be read by all in favor 
of intellectual progress. The No. for August 
contains an 'interesting history ot lather 
Mathew.an article on Republicanism which 
is worth t* whole price of the Journal, one 
on the use of Peaches, Apples and Pears, 
and much other valuable matter. 

g@,A systematic Report of the Hydro- 
pathic Treatment at the Water Cure estab- 
lishment at Brattleborouh, Vt.,with an arti- 
cle on the Causes and Hydropathic Treat; 
mc nt of Cholera, by Drs. K. Wesselhoeft & 
Wm. Grau. , 

This is a pamphlet of about 100 pages, de- 
voted to the subjects expressed in the titte, 
™dwe recommend a perusal of it to all who 
feel an interest in the use of water as a m,d»- 



even, incident to man's selfish, nh_ 



At the late elation in Vermont, the people 
cave » majority of 13.000 against Licens- 
wvff tho sale of Liquor. This we believe de- 
the question all over the Slat". The 
■rote through the State was two and a hall to 
trie for :ui> License. 

Thff Wot system cost th i United States 
from 17,s)ta 13 IS, s-/env.a hundred and 



ggardlv, 

scrambling, foolish culture of the earth! 
And who hut man crushes man uuder servi- 
tude, drudgery, squallidness, famine? Did 
the Creator of sunlit mountains and meadows 
build and let out these dingy blocks, these 
brick prisons ; did the Maker of air rake up 
these decaving heaps of oftal and fill to over- 
flow these bursting sewers ? 

Ministers of religion dare to speak of 
Cholera as a Divine Judgment. In one sense, 
tremendous in emphatic significance, Cholera 
is a judgment. For it shows that Nature 
and Nature's God, long suffering as they are, 
can no longer bear w ith human perversions 
of heaven's beneficent agencies. But can 
any one, who has heart and hope, question 
for an instant, whether it is a blessing or a 
curse to thousands of outcasts, that they have 
| been taken from a hard race who knew not 
how to prize thvm, ami received among an- 
i:els to be schooled to love and joy ? 

[\V> regret that we have only room, for 
abont half of this excellent article. The fol- 
lowing is one of the concluding paragraphs.] 

Und::r these circumstances, considering that 
no plans are matured and prepared by Gov- 
i eratnent for removing the permanent causes 
of pestilence ; that no companies of shippers, 
landlords, steamboat and canal agents, inu- 
holders, slave masters, hovo been formed for 
succoring the "conscripts" "ho fight in the 
front rank of th's campaign with death that 
municipal authorities, boards of heaU^npd 
colleges of physicians, are dumb as to any 
substantial modes of cure and relief; that 
probably no easier bargains have been made 
in market*, no notes shaved at less discount, 
few rents abated, no debts forgiven, &c., we 
are constrained to say, that such a National 
Fast is a National Farce, second only in im- 
piety to blessing of banners before battle, and 
To beurda after victory. 



111 * - ~\ C i„al agent. It is sold at the Establishment, 

Those parents of colored ( ^ ^ Wm Ra ja e , 322 Broadway, IV * . 

#5>THE SCIENCE OF SM1MMING. 
This is a neat little pamphlet of about 40 
pages, giving a history of swimming as taught 
and practiced by civilized and savage nations, 
with useful instructions to learners, interest- 
in- stories about swimmers, and remarks on 
its -reat usefulness in the preservation ot 
life and health. We advise all to read it- 

It is published by Fowlers & Wells* 131 
Nassau street, New York, price 12 1-2 cents. 



school until it got too cold to he in the base- 
ment without fire, when they took them 
away. We know not how things are man- 
aged there now, but according to our last 
information, which was two or three months 
since, the colored children were, by the 
uuited exertions of the Teacher aad Trus- 
tees, entirely excluded from the school. 
Thus colored people are taxed to educate 
the white children of Plainliled. 

Plainfield probably contains about 3,000 



inhabitants,and if we mistake not it has eight 
churches, but it seems too little religion to 
practice the plainest principles of justice. 
We wonder if those who withhold their sup- 
port from these churches are called "come- 
outers" and "infidels" in Plainfield? W 
beleive those colored people, who under 
these circumstances, send their children to 
school at all, give the best, evidence of theii 
desire to have them educated. 



ft^The CbrystaJ Fount Tent of Recha- 
bites in Boonton is disbanded, and their goods 
and effect's distributed among the members 
"good on the books," which was a small 
number, the members most of them having 
forfeited their right, by not paying up fines 
? nd dues for some time, which is indispensi- 
ble in order to keep "good on the books." 
We long ago said that the Boonton Rccha- 
bites, meet of them, were men of too much 
sense and good principle to hold on long to 
such miserable apologies for benevolence and 
such engines of mischief as secret societies. 



ta'.p. Ion of dollars 



The in'ere-=t 
jf EUii R->ad 



£5>FaoM a New Orleans Paper. ^— "Just 
received and for sale, at No. 20, Morcau 
street, Third Municipality, Sixty Yoiinr) and 
Likely Negrosi, consisting of house servants, 
li ;!d hands and mechanics. The subscriber 
will hi receiving new lots regularly from 
Virginia dur.iig the season .W. P. Tapov" 



^.DISEASES OF WINTER. This is 
Ootid, of a pamphlet of about 100 pages, 
Consumption, Colds, Asthma, and other 
diseases of the Chest, with instructions on 
the treatment, an 1 observations on diet and 
teamen, in language adapted to common 
r ^der S ,byR.J.Culverwell,M.D. Itcon- 
-ains many very excellent and important 
things, proper for every body 

It is published by J- S. Redficld, Clinton 
Hall, New York, price 25 cents. 

(j^THE WATER CURE MANUAL 
is fl book of nearly 300 duodecimo pages, by 
Joel Shew, M.D., published by Fowlers & 
Wells, 131 Nasaau street, N. Y., price 5Q<*>. 
Our views of Water Cure have been before 
expressed. While we do not believe tha 
S numerous other curative means which 
are proved valuable by every day's expen- 
e „4 should be wholly excluded we aro 
to give, water the highe-t rank amonff 
tftedicaVa«nts,both as a cure and prevent.™ 
: Wc believe ^^er, the mag* 

L-toftheanc.ents, should be drt ,mgm 
i^ofthepresentand all future generating 
The above book give, a great amount of 
valuable information on this subject. 



i^The Address of the seceding portion of 
Hicksite Friends, adopted in Convention at 
Waterloo, N. Y. in June, is received, and 
shall appear in the next Freeman. It is an 
important document. 



No religion is calculated to promote hap* 
pioess among men, but j. ^ta* Jjf ove, 
and this, whether it be found' among Ma- 
hometans, Pagans, or Christians is from above, 

, emanation ftom the Deity- 4 



UK7 



From the Herald of Truth. 
THE LANGUAGE OF NATURE. 

BY MRS. MARIA L. VARNEV. 

I was awakened this morning by my little 
^/Bzart, singing in the tree before the win- 
Wow — 

Get up, get up, get up, 

The sun's a shining, shining, shining, 

Get up, the sun's ;i shining. 

He seems to have followed me from that 
beautiful orchard, and more beautiful forest, 
through which the chrystal stream is forever 
murmering along, then bounding over the 
rocks, in that "Land o' the Lakes," where I 

Wandered from the haunts of men 
To the wildest spot in the forest glen, 
Where our beautiful river comes dashing along 

And mingles its noise with the wild birdssong 
I'm not quite sure 't is him. It certainly 
Hounds very like his not.-— shall know when 
he sinus again If so, he is an inteligent bird 
ana one who knows how to appreciate and 
Reciprocate affection., lie knows his friends. 
Inhere is no bird who tings more sweetly than 
limself: No'- even redbreast. His throat 
is as mellow, and his notes are stolen directly 
from the cheerfull god. He is the angel of 
cheerfulness. It seems as though the birds 
were up in the air and trees, for careful 
earth-worms to imitate. Their songs are al- 
ways of that sweet, careless, cheerful nature. 
They don't write them down in a book, and 
then square all to the same rule. No, they 
go for individual liberty. They hav'nt lost 
their birdhood by restraint, or government, 
or policy. They have free meetings, and 
free singings — no chairman orsinging-schools 
Each warbles out his own feelings in his <>wn 
w ay". Like a part of great, beautiful Na- 
ture, inhaling her inspirations, and breathing 
them out again, as pure and {rce. '1 hey 
have no pledges, constitutions and by-law ; 
because no bird has monopolised the air, the 
trees, and the sun-lightt to sell it in parcels, 
or receive usury therefor. No bird sets a 
limit to the quantity of air, or the number of 
sun's rays that shall fall upon other birds. 
They do not feed or house themselves at the 
expense of others. Each builds his own nest, 
and collects his own fcod. Each throws him- 
self on the bosom of great Nature, and re- 
flects back her image. They partake of the 
seasons as much as do trees. In the spring 
they break forth, like all nature, in their live- 
liest and gayest tunes. They are in ecstacy 
; s Summer wanes, and their notes become 
deeper and richer. In Autumn they grow- 
more plaintive, and in Winter they are si- 
lent. This is the appearance up here in our 
northern latitudes. 1 suppose it is owing 
partly to the change of the birds. Some go 
to the sunny south., where the fields and for- 
ests arc clothed in perpetual spring, as soon 
as Nature begins to look a little more sober 
here. They are made with sparkling nerves 
and eyes, which must meet a reciprocation in 
nature around them. Others keep leaving 
us as Nature grows graver and graver and 
by the time Jack has the leaves stript off, 
and old Boreas is well waked up, we arc left 
pretty much alone. The birds and green 
leaves come and go together, leaving us but 
the cold, empty frame. 

Then, what an impulse, when the first 
Spring-sun begins to shine. It is one mighty 
thrill, sent through the living world! All 
at once, the sun shines brighter and warmer: 
the grass springs out, the oirds begin to sing, 
the buds burst, the animals jump about for 
joy, and even we, cold, reflecting monuments, 
feel the universal thrill. The blood jumps 
through our veins quicker, as the general 
resurrection touches the chords and shakes 
off our grave-clothes. Last forever,- 0 
Spring! Why should not we prefer the tro- 
pical clime ? 

"Ah, who would not dwell in the sunny south 
land, 



Where the (lowers are ever blooming o're 
mountain and strand/" 



Ti> the Editor of the Water-Care Joural. 
V E G E T A It I A N I S M. 



It is a wonder that the birds ever come to us 
at all, when they have such beautiful, wild, 
gunless forests, and and sunshine at home. 
I suppose these are only some little rovers, 
who are fond of change, and just come up 
here for curiosity. And how do they ge 
treated sometimes? I blush for my species! 



With great plensur j I have read the intro- 
ductory number of the Water-Cure Journal 
for 1849. The zeal and latent you display 
in favor of the various Reforms of our day — 
physical, moral and intellectual — are worihv 
, ! of all commendation, and I trust will be 



What, kill little tender birds, who come here i rewarded by a corresponding addition to your 



just to see us, and sing to us, and teach us to 
be cheerful! They have no ill feeling toward 
us. Why, here they come, away to the cen- 
tre of this great, noisy city, to sinir on the 
trees in this beautiful garden. Who kills 
little Birds and squirrels? 

" I would not enter on my list of friend: 
The man (though graced with polished man 

ners and fine sense, 
Yet wanting sensibility, )who needlessly sets 

foot upon a worm 
That crawls at evening in the public path,'' 

Much les.-i he who wantonly kills the birds 
and squirrels. 

We find the same bmjruacre of freedom and 



subsci iption, list. Your dietetic doctrine 
proviug that a purely vegetable regimen is 
more conducive to the physical and moral 
well being of man than a flesh or mixed diet 
is doubtless correct. Anatomical testimony 
and physiiogolcal tacts sustain your views; 
and the lights of Science reflect, if possible, 
j a still greater confirmation. 



After much research, and carefully consult- 
ing the Bible, ancient traditionary records, 
comparative anatomy, physiology, chemistry 
general history and private experience, 1 
have long ago arrived at the. full conviction, 
that the flesh of animals is not only unneces- 
sary to the sustenance of man, but that its 
happy cheerfulness in the green trees, as j use ' 5 as j s decidedly predjudicial to the 
they wave their graceful tops in the breeze; health and moral well-being of all those 
and the little flowers, as {hey peep out their I who resort to it to satisfy their appetites. Ac- 
pretty faces, to the sun. They choose their | cordingly for the last forty years 1 have, dis- 
own dress, and suck their own nourishment, | continued it as an article of diet, nor has it. 
from generous mother earth. Little children j during that period, been used by any mem- 
too, breathe out the same breath 'of freedom I bear of my family, nor even introduced into 
and love. Who but admires that free, fro)- j m >' 1,ouse - Whcn 1 first ^P 1 " 1 this didetic 
irsome cheerfulness, which shines out in 
their faces, their merry laugh, and bounding 
limbs; that innocent frankness which shines 
out through their whole, being, as they float 
on the bosom of nature. Nay, who does 
not feel this impulse at times gushing up 
through his own feelings, and reminding him 
that he too was once an inocent, happy child? 
Will the time ever come, when we shall czx- 
ry loving, merry, innocent childhood up to 
maturity with us? Yes, my own heart an- 
swers. 

Nature has written her poetry every where 
and each nerve vibrates its corresponding 



course, many of my friends expressed their 
fears and their remonstrances on the subject, 
not withstanding which I persevered, and 
soon became convinced of the superior adap- 
tation of a diet derived exclusively from the 
vegetable kingdom, to secure greater health 
and a more intellectual enjoyment than I had 
ever experienced under an animal or mixed 
diet. The poetess has justly observed — 

"Fatal effects of luxury and ease! 
We drink our poison, and we eat disease; 
Indulge our senses at our reason's cost, 
Till sense is pain, and reason hurt or lost." 



feeling in the human heart. The form and 
color of every leaf and flower, has its lan- 
guage : — the vast blue sky, the silent twink- 
ling starts, the serene moou, and the smooth 
surface of the sea, lake, or rever; the plain, 
the ever rolling surface, the hill, the mdun- 



In vour excellent article on the Asiatic 
j Cholera, addressed to the Editor of the New. 
I York Tribune, and republished in the first 
'number of the Water-Cure Journal for 18-19, 
! you have been pleased to advert to the So- 
ciety of Bible. Christians in Philadelphia, 
and also to insert an extract of a former let- 
ter of mine, corroborative of your views, in 



\ 

conducted, called The Vcniicriav Advocated 
and everywhere throughout the kingdom 
there are indications of pW gression in V< ge;- 
ai innism. 

And now, Mr. Edi!or*fr,ny I be permitted 
to ask you, and the friends of this cause here 
cannot a movement of ibis liature be got up 
in this country? America is c^tinguishi d 
throughout the civilized world for the noble 
stand she first 'made against intemperance 
iudrinlsing. Shall she be less zealous in op- 
posing a system of diet, as detrimental to the 
health and happiness of humanity as intoxica- 
ting liquors? Could not pieliminary arrttage- 
ments be made, aid circulars stitisfquentlv 
addressed to all the know n advoc-iiU-s of veget- 
ative food thronghout the ltng,lh and l-ici.i'th 
of the land, inviting them to assemble in con- 
vention at a certain time and place agreed 
on, and then and there organize an American 
Vegetarian Society? Why not make*. an as- 
sociated eflbrt to set this *bal in motion?" 
I have conversed with soma of my friends 
who highly approve of the proposaj— utfiers- 
wilh more cautiousness, perhaps, th.au I > os- 
sess, think "the good timo is coming," but, 
is not yet come. J submit the matter to von 
and your readers, wiiling to co-opemtc in 
any order that may work for the elevation of 
man from the bondage of an unnatural, de- 
structive and barbarous custom. 

WILLIAM. METCALFE, 
Kensington, Phelidclqhia.- 

(jf^We second the motion for an Ameri- 
can Vegetarian Society. Let New York be 
the place. Ed. Freeman. 



The Plot Rifetung, — A 1 proclamation 
has been issued by the President and Secre- 
tary of State, warning all good citizens again*', 
engaging in a conspiracy w hi oh lias been di>- 
covered in the Sou hwnst to invade Cuba, 
with a design undoubtedly of annexing it to 
the United States. Our susp'cions are t' at 
the proclamation will end in smoke and ihfi 
plot will be executed. Per.nx. Freeman 

Our suspicions are that the proclamation: 
is nothing but smoke or gas, and has no other 
end in view. 



tain, and the valley; the still midnight, the j reIatio[1 t0 the best mo<lt> of preventing the 
morning sunrise; the noon-day, and evening i f ata ) effects of that much dreaded malady, 
twilight; Spring, Summer, Autumn, and J \ h ave no doubt, whatever, but that a pure- 
ly vegetable diet, attention to cleanliness, 
bathing, clothing, &c, would be a more ef- 
fectual preventive than any other that could 
be adopted. 



Winter; the silent, majestic forest, and the 
roaring waterfall 



Sentimentality.— The Wilkinson (Miss.) 
Whig gives us the following,as coming from 
a 'darkey,' the property of a gentleman in 
that neighborhood, who on Christmas gave 
his son ants somthing to make th»-ir hearts 
merry and their dance light. The ■ master 
having called upon each for a toast, was met 
by a snicker, and "I don't no how to do dat 
masa,"from one and another, until Joe's turn 
came, (whose cotton basket is always the 
heaviest of the gang, ) when he held up his 
glass with ludicrous gravity, and gave: 
"The big bee flies high, 

The little bee makes the honey; 
The black folks make the cotton, 
The white folks get the money." 

N. Y. Tribvnt. 



HOvV MUCH BRANDY.— A correspon- 
dent of the N ew York Tribune comments ! affair was trulv 
upon the instructions issued by the Medical ' 
Council of New York, and the recommenda- 
tion of "a little brandy and water." He 
asks how much "a little brandy and water" 
is ? To which tho Tribune replies that hav- 
ing a sort of outsider's faith in homceopathy, 
he should advise three drops of brandv in a 
bucket of wafer, and that a spoonful of the 
mixture be put into another bucket of water; 
from which he thinks the patient might eafe- 
!v drink. 



The Bible-Christians of this country and 
in England continue to move onward in the 
propagation of their principles, and in the e- 
ven tenor of their way-. You are probably 
aware that in England the advocates of die- 
tetic reform, some time ago, instituted an as- 
sociation, (somewhat after the manner of our 
American Temperance Societies,) under the j 
appellation of "The Vegitarian Society,"" 
which is creating quite an excitement 
throughout that country. Last sCunmer it- 
members held their first anniversary in Man- 
chester, and had a banquet prepared in ac- 
cordence with their dietetic principles, o) 
which nearly 300 persons were partakers. 
Resolutions, expressive, of the light in which 
they viewed this reformitory measure, and 
speeches demonstrative of its truth were de- 
livered, which gave ample evidence that the 



§£^> Annual Report of the American and 
Foreign Anti-slavery Society, read May the 
8th 1840, with resolutions and addresses.'- — 
This document of nearly 100 pages, contsm • 
avast amount of matter that is important for 
every body to know in relation to s'avoiT 
and the prospects of the cause of err kinc igni- 
tion. — It will do any true lover of liberty 
<"ood to read it and kindle iid anew his an<i- 



slavery fire. It is published by 
nsd, CI John street New York. 



Vi 



Har- 



" A feast of reason and a flow of soul." 



More recently, a number of these Vegetarians 
residing in London have had a social Vegeta- 
rian Supper, in the largo room of the Crown 
and Anchor, of which about 160 ladies and 
gentlemen of that mighty metropolis partook 
After supper the evening was devoted to ad- 
dresses in favor of the excellency of tlusptrim ^ 
Uhe mode of sustaining human life. The j m "T i 



{^ALMANACS FOR IS^O.-,-^} • 
The Phrenological Almanac for LfcialfM 
published and for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau street, N. Y. It contains the 
likenesses of William C. Bryant, Benjamin 
Franklin, Hiram Powers, Louis Napoleon, 
Daniel Boone., Mirgar -t Prior and others, 
with interesting sketches of each, and much 
other matter. It will no doubt have a wide 
circulation. 

Also THE WATER ( THE AI.VfAN.U for [850, 

by the same publishers, Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nas-au street. It contains directions fof 
the various uses of water, an article on 
Anatomy and Physiology, another on the 
Teeth, with many othrr articles, altogether 
an excellent article for circul.ilion. Such 
ihii j$i will not be re; d without profit. 



A clergyman 



takmct a sp»S( 



of wino at a wed log, was urg'-d on th : 
ground that Paul directed Timothy to t^Ke 
j some "for his infirmity." "I brvo no kfir- 
was the gentleman V t'^pAjtV 



Avseciation has a men i My pertodicaL, abh '. toolt 3 



b.:,5 cf water. 



DOMESTIC HELP 



ALCOHOLIC QUACK MEDI 



5S. 



Tlie*Eullowiog qttestiffo has become a great j Among the many obstacles in the way of 
i ibje< t for dim ussion ai (he present day, viz.: I medical as well as temperance reform, are the 

frequent administrations of alcoholic stimu- 
lants, as medicines, by the regular faculty, 
and the common admixture of tliese poisons 
in t'ii' popular nostrums of the irregular M 
D.s. In fact these nostrums depend far more 
upon the "good liquor''' they contain for their 
success, reputation and sale, than upon all 
other circumstances combined. The regular 
physician puts a little M ine or brand v in his 
dose of castor oil to make it go down smoth- 
ly, and the non-diplomatized practitioner puts 
a little alcohol in his "purifying syrup" so 
that it will not sour. In bcth cases the pa- 
tients' stomachs and nervous systems are de- 
praved and injured, while a morbid appitite 
is liable to bo excited or aggravated, which 
mav lend (o drunkenness an:f ruin. 



What is thr cause of so much dfiiculty in oh 
tailing feniairtf a» nurses s#id to do house- 
work?' , V. , . ' 

Now f do not think this is a "vexed ques- 
tion," tr hh'T do 1 deem it neees-arv lor a per- 
son to be skilled in logic or philosophy, in or- 
ijer tit he :iblt* to answer this qm .+.iou- It 
only need* a small share of common sense. 
] think tfa« silk pile relation of an anecdote 
dill throw light enough upon this subject 
to eh:ar awav a'l the mist that hand's over it. 

\ short tiaie ft'jjo I viiitad your city, and 
during Bvy stay 1 * isited an a^ed man- who 
for in inv yenrs did a large commercial busi- 
ness in th« city, hut now ha-- retired to his 
eoumrv s&at in an adjoining town to spend 
the remainder of ids days upon the fruits ol 
1,h past labor. Durhg my visit he invited me 
Ui ride with h'un. W o e died upon a friend 
»>f his, and after thr- usual saltttatjalw, the lady 
of thr hduse beg in to tiHl her troubles. She 
Was dv stiuHe of help. Tlie girls were so un- 
to-, ulv n >w-a days, that she could get none 
that would s'av more than a fortnight. The 
old gentleman listened with all the gravity of 
a ]udge, until she got through, and then 
said, "1 am glad of it. I hope you will nev-l 
or get one; uui.il yon learn how to treat your j 
help " I The o'd gentleman never carries 

butter in hismoulh to grease his words with. ) | * illcp obstruction, topor, duilness.debility, and 
The laiiy exclaimed, "v.hv, .Mr 



ish to a great extent that competition in the 
business of poisoning the community, which 
starves the physician and robs the public, 
while it fills the pockets of the quack. 

R. Thrall. M. D. 
New York, Dec. 1st, 1848. 



Free Labor Produce. 
K. L. MURRAY, 

No. .'577 Pearl street New York, 

"^THOLES ALE and Retail dealer in Gro- 
ceries and Dry Goods, which are not 
l he product of SlaveLabor. 



A majority of people in civilized society 
are Jiving in a constant violation of the laws of 
life and health to some extent; many, indeed, 
to a degree inducing actual disease, and en- 
dangering sudden death. Nearly all persons, 
too, laboring under chronic disease, and liv- 
ing in the ordiary maner are at first pieasur- 
. j ably affected by stimulents, especialy such as 



The Spirit Abroad. — Wiscon- 
sin is alive. She means to lead in 
reform. That younger sister oi 
ours wears the mature and match- 
less wisdom which seeks whatever 
is good in new things, and preserv- 
es what is good in the old. Her 
plan is to educate all; to give all ;t 
fair opportunity: to apply the law 
and to exert her moral power a 
gainst land monopoly, intemper- 
ance, and every means which cramp 
the energy or deaden the heart ol 
man. Noble ambition! Glorious 
effort! Success be with our young- 
er sister. 

A law passed her Legislature last 
winter which illustrates her spirit. 



LViNDOW GLASS, assorted sizes, for 

sale by J. GRIMES. 

Boonton, Aug. loth, 1849. 

BLANKS ! 

3LANK DEEDS and MORTGAGES 
for sale at the office of the Freeman. 



BELLOW OCHRE, just received and 
for sale on reasonable terms bv 

J. GRIMES. 



Boonton, May 30, 1S49. 



All persons indebted to the epl 
ird Kayhart. late of the Com. 
leceased, aie hereby request. le the 

same, and all those having c ims against 
said estate are notified to present them to the 
subscriber for examination without delay. 

JOHN GRIMES, Administrator. 
Boonton, Aug. 15tn, 1S49. 



that I don't treat mv 



do you mean to sa\ 
help well?" 

"Yes?" replied the old man. 

"Why not?" said the lady. 

'•Do you let your girls sit at the table with 
frou'?" asked the old man- 

"No, indeed! do you suppose I would hive 
kitchen giris at my table?" 

'!l)o you have them sit down with you in 
tl,» pavlar?" 

':No'" i 
«. "Ho \ ou treat them as equals or, inferiors? 

" As inferiors, of course." 

'•Then," replied the old man, "out of ^hine 
own mouth will I condemn thee. Now,'' 
said hej "if you will listen to me, I will tell 
you my experience. 1 have no trouble about 
my female help. I have one woman that has 
boon wuh me thirty three years, and another 
night years. I have employed female help 
fifty years, and never had one leave me ex- 
cept she got mariea, Now I will teil you 
how to manage. I almays treat them aS 
eouals. 1 l ave (hem sit at my table, and in 
my parlor w hen their duties do not call them 



It consists of ten sections. 

1. A bond of $'000 is required, 
with sureties for all trafficers in 

j combine nervine and soothing property with j alchol, to answer any damages 
the exciting, as alcohol, opium, and tobacco, j caused by the traffic. 

Their dietetic and other voluntary habits pro- j 2. This bond, if violated, is tO j This is a pamphlet of 100 pages, from the 

' be applied to pauoers, widows, and | P ress of T ; R - Marvin, 24 Congress street, 
orphans * ; 1 Boston. It contains the letters ol John C. 

3. Any person claimed to 
been injured may sue. 

4. Married woman may sue and 
recover monev spent at grog-shops 

by their husbands. {^OUTLINES OF A NEW SYTEM 

5. Suits for liquor bills cannot be OF L PHYS10GOMY illustrated with numer- 
recovered and if a promissory note " us engravings; is a pamphlet of about K>0 
be given for it, and if the fact shall 
be known, the consideration shall 



a thousand depressing nervous feelings, and 
they mistake the sensation of stimulants for 
actual Strength. Instead of removeing the 
causes of oppression; giving the functions free 
play, they endeavor to lash up tire organs by 
stimulants, and smother the natural instincts 
by nervines aud narcotics. It only requires a 
shrewdly managed system of newspaper null- 
ing to induce such people to buy and swallow 
any amount of medicated syrups, cordials 



^LETTERS ON FREE MASONRY, 



j Spencer, Richard Rush, Edward Everett 
nave anc | others on the subject of Free Masonry, 
which should be read and treasured up by 
every lover of justice and humanity. 



aud bitters, which "rum, brandy, wine and i he declared void 



to the kitchen or some other places. 



Thev 



sit with me at church, they crime round the 
name family nhnryan 1. 1 trust (hey will spend 
an eternitv in the Bam? heaven with me. 1 
treat them with us much respect, as I Would 
^oii and require it of my children. If they are 
below m* in any particular, 1 strive to ele- 
vate them to me; and if they are above me 1 
strive fo elevate myself to them. Now il 
you will pursue this course, I will warrant 
V'.U will have no troulde about help." 

^■Tickling in tlia Throat, some persons 
complain of tickling in the throat. Any per- 
son alfected in that way, has only to swallow 
a l.ttle of Graham's saw-dust bread, which 
■will scratch the throat and cure the tickling. 

-So says the Argus, hut ai a preventive is 
better than a cure, it will be no harm to sa>, 
that if people Mould's a allow a little of what 
many call saw-dust bread with a few othei 
simple articles of food, instead ol a tjreat deai 
■>V dead animate, salt, spices, 8t<i. fyc, the\ 
never would be troubled with tickling in the 
tnrwat and would also get rid of some othei 
kinds of tickling, far more hurtful than tick- 
lutein tire throat. Pleasure boat, 



Uy-\. New Orleans paper advertises ''oik 
Undivided ha'f of a neirro for sale." 



-in" arc the. chief medical agents 

How many of the "infedlible" preparations 
ol sarsaparil'la, sold in imense quantities all 
over the land, owe their whole popularity to 
the liquors they contain/ Deprived of this 
their sale would rapidly diminish. Many of 
the most famous preparations of sarsaparilla, 
so called, do not contain the first particle of 
that root, or its extract, nor would they be 
either better or worse if they did. Those 
who get up these, things know full well that 
their nostrums will have about the same ef- 
fect whether it is in or out. More active ar- 
ticles are generlly employed in compounding 
these compound preparations; sometimes mer- 
curials are used, and more generally the hj r - 
driodato. of potossa is the most active ingre- 
dient — a drug often productive of insidious 
yet serious injury. 

These drugs however, have little to do with 
the sale of the preparations. It is mainly 
the stimulus of the liquor which captivates 
the taste and deludes the judgment of the pa- 
tient. True, after he has taken a dozen bot- 
tles, and purchased a dozen more, he begins 
to find the stimulus losing its power to charm, 
and the consequent debility becoming appar- 
ent. But then it is too late. The patent 
medicine man has accomplished his object. 
He has sold two dozen bottles of the "never- 
failing" at an enormous profit, and perchance 
procured cf the patient, when first stimulated 
into the greatful mood, a wonderful "certifi- 
cate" to exibit fur the benefit -of the nextcus- 
C )tner. 

We think the time has come, and the pro- 
gress of true science demands, and the best 
interests of humanity require, that the use of 
alcohol in all its forms, as a medicine, be to- 
tally abandoned. If the regular physicians 
will but take this stand, aud maintain it, they 
will soon bring many of the innumerable 
rharlatafts now swarming in our cities and 
extending over the country:, to discontinue 
the sale of sweetened liquor under the names 
\>f cordials nyrups and bitters, and thus dirnin- 



6. Contracts made when the 
parties are in liquor are void. 

7. If an individual, through in-: 
temperance, become a pauper, all 
persons who sold him liquor in the 
community must contribute to his 
support. 

8. Persons suing under this'act, 
may, if right, compel liquor dealers 
to contribute to pay co.sts. 

9. Severe penalties against those 
who retail or sell liquor. 

This is the most stringent law 
yet passed bv any of the States on 
the liquor traffic. Yet it. passed the 
Senate by a vote of 10 to 3. — True 
Democrat. 

Landholders in Upp« Canada. -- 
There are 65,000 proprietors of 
real estate in Upper Canada: they 
occupy 9, 613,591 acres, or about 
138 acres each on the average. In 
Ireland there are not 15,000 land- 
ed proprietors- 



pgaes, by J. &}• Redfield, Clinton Hall N. Y, 
price 25 cents. 

This is a very interesting book on Physi-. 
ogomy, a very interesting subject, and will no. 
doubt be. read with satisfaction and profit by 
any who may give it a perusal. 



{^NATIONAL REFORM ALMANAC 

for 1S49. 

This is an excellent document just pub-, 
fished aud for sale ai the office of the Young 
America, at 56 Chatham Street.Y. N. 

All land reformers should secure a copy of 
this almanac for themselves, and and aid in 
its circulation — It contains a concise collec- 
tion of things very important for all to know. 



_ {^AMERICAN AND FOREIGN An- 
ti Slavery office is at 61 John Street, N. Y., 
where an assortment of Anti-Slavery, Books* 
Pamphlets, Tracts can he had no reasonable 
terms — address William Idarned at the of- 
fice. — 



fiO FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE— 
Thk Liberty Almanac for 1S49. IN'o. 
friend of freedom should be without this ex- 
e.llent collection of valuable things? 

ALSO, PHRENOI,OGICAL, WATER 
CURE and TOBACCO Almanacs. 



A Smart Woman. — "Ah!" said 
old Mrs. Doccnbury, learning is a 
great thing, I've often felt the need K» f thcmselvs 
of it. Why, would you believe it, 
I'm now sixty years old, and only 
know the na;ne« of three months in 
the year, and them's spring, fall, 
and autumn. 1 larnt the names of 
them when I was a leetle bit of a 
sal !" 



(fe>lTIEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
Professor Id EPIC, price 20 cents, published - 
by Fowlers and Wells, 181 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 



"I feel too lazy to work," said 
a loafer, "and I have no time to 
play, T think* I'll go to bed and split 
the difference." 



He who is always enquiring, 'what will 
people say?' will never give them nn oppor- 
tunity to say any great things about him. 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, S[ 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale at this office. These books should 
be read by every friend of truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance tliat all 
become acquainted with the cause and cure, 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet famishes 
some valuabe light on the subject. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York Stale Society, for sale at this Olive. 



r 









2EMAN. 




Truth invites full and free Discusson ; Error shrinks from c 


ill YnvpsfifHsltoiv 


Yol. 4. 




Boorrroy, October 20, 1849. 


No. 1. 



THE JVEW JERSEY 



WILL HE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, I Editor and Proprietor, 
Boonlon, Maoris County, New Jersey. 



T E R M S : 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
numbers 

5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 

ADDRESS TO REFORMERS. 
To all earnest and devoted laborers in the 
various llumanitary Reforms so conspicuous 
in the present day, the Yearlg Meeting of 
Co.igtejational Friends sendcth greeting. 
Beloved Friends, — Assembled, in obedi- 
ence to the call of duty, for the promotion of 
pure and unde'iled religion 1 throughout the 
world, o'ur souls have bei;n stirred by an earn- 
est desire to strengthen the hands and en- 
courage the hearts of those who, in the midst 
of obloquy and reproach, are struggling, 
through the various Reformatory Associa- 
te ms of the present (jay, to abolish the giant 
evils winch have so long cursed and degra- 
ded the human family. Having broken the 
ti'-s of party and sect, under a solemn con- 
viction that they are incompatible with the 
freedom of the soul and a mighty obstacle to 
the progress of the human race in knowledge 
and goodness, wc have been drawn together 
tor our spiritual strength and elevation, and 
by common sympathy in every work of prac- 
tical righteousness, and a common desire to 
find a basis of union for all the friends of God 
and humanity — a common platform, on which 
they may meet in pei feet harmony w ith the 
laws of their being and the equal relations 
which our Father in Heaven has established 
for them. Such a basis of universal fellow- 
ship we have sought, not in creeds and forms, 
but in* love |<> God, 'and those principhsol 
fundamental MORALITY which are ihe ele- 
ments of all true religion, and which are so 
clearly set forth in ihe precepts and so beau- 
tifully illustrated in the life of Christ. While 
j OuV associations an; devoted each specially 
to one or another of the various blanches of 
Reform, ours is designed to embrace them 
all in ona common brotherhood, and to open 
a channel through which those engaged in 
one department may help those who are toil- 
ing in another, aud receive and impait the 
strength w hich is derived from communion 
with God and with kindred spirits. Standing 
upon this platform, we rejoice to greet you as 
fellow laborers with us in the great work of 
Human Redemption and Salvation, and to 
tender you our hearty God-speed in the work 
to which you have been called 

In the field of moral no less than in that 
of physical effort, there is an absolute neces- 
sity for a division of labor — a necessity aris- 
ing on the one hand from the magnitude and 
variety of the work to be accomplished, and 
on the other from the great diversity of gifts 
in the different classes of the human family. 
The attention of one class may be particu- 
larly called to the evils of I nt<=mperance ; 
another may be inspired to do battle with the 
gigantic sin of slavery ; a third to denounce 
and expose the attrocities and crimes of War ; 
another for the abolition of the Gallows and 
the adjustment of the whole penal code (o 



the Christian law of Forgiveness; another 
may be called of Gxl to arrest the tide of 
Sexual Impurity ; the province of others 
may be to seek a remedy for the blighting 
evils of Poverty, to protest against the tyran- 
ny of wealth, the monopoly of Land, or to 
harmonize the relations of men in Industrial 
Associations; another class may he impelled 
to labor for the restoration to Woman of the 
inalienable rights of which she has been so 
long despoiled ; others may seek the over- 
throw of a despotic and mercenary Priest- 
hood, to call mankind away from reliance 
upon empty forms and the observance of holy 
days, and to consecrate all time to the service 
of God; and still another class may devote 
their energies to Physiological Reform' - , or to 
the sacred work of Education. But, as all 
moral evils spring from the same root, so is 
the work of abolishing them essentially one 
work. Here we exhort the friends of Re- 
form, in whatever portion of the moral vine- 
yard they are called to labor, to remember 
that they are one Brotherhood, and should 
therefore be of one heait and one mind. We 
are deeply impressed with the conviction that 
not only is an earnest devotion to one philan 
thropic enterprise consistent with a hearty 
interest in every work of Reform, but that 
our usefulness and efficiency in our several 
spheres will be proportioned to our just ap 
preciation of the labors of others and to our 
diligence in cultivating the spirit of Universal 
Unity. The narrow bigotry which leads us 
to form an exaggerated estimate of our im 
mediate labors and to undervalue the toils 
and sacrifices of others not less devoted than 
ourselves to the welfare of mankind, is at 
war with the whole genius of Reform and a 
mighty hindrance to our moral and spiritual 
growth. The friends of Humanity, of even- 
class, should sedulously cultivate the spirit ol 
harmony and mutual co-operation so beauti- 
fully described by one of the Prophets ot 
Israel: "They helped every one his neigh- 
bor ; and every one said to his brother, Be 
of good courage. So the carpenter encour- 
aged the goldsmith, and ha that sinootheth 
with the hammer him that smote the anvil, 
saying, It is ready for the soldering ; and he 
fastened it with nails that it should not be 
moved." — Isaiah xli. tS, 7. 

We admonish you, beloved fellow-laborers, 
t> he steadfast and immovable in your adher- 
anc-e to fundamental principles, to Right and 
Truth in opposition to the maxims of world- 
ly expediency. Be true, under all circum- 
cumstances, to your highest convictions, to 
the voice of duty in your own souls. Let no 
temporary good, no impatience for immediate 
results, tempt you to swerve from the line of 
strictest Rectitude. Remember that duty is 
yours, while consequences are God's. Enter 
into no compromise with the evils which you 
seek to exterminate. While you deal kindly 
and patiently with those who set themselves 
in opposition to the cause of Reform, seek- 
ing to win tliem to the right way in the spirit 
of love, wc exhort you also to be bold and 
fearless in proclaiming the Truths you are set 
to defind. Let your rebukes of sin be tem- 
pered with kindness, but give no place to that 
false charity which shrinks from the utterance 
of important truth from the fear of giving 
offence. 

We entreat you also to be faithful to the 
Truth in dealing with the corrupt parlies and 
sects which lend their influence to sustain in- 
justice, oppression and crime. The Church 



which sanctions Or apologizes for Slavery or 
War, or which neglects or refuses to take 
the side of the oppressed and dawn-trodden, 



ot 



{^5= Ks mjs 'it a i. (Aim sit a n i t ir. — It 
Christianity merely to give our assent to a 
creed or n set of dogmas; for (Lis is often 



is controlled by the spirit of practical infi- done while ihe character remains uncharged 
delily aud atheism. The Ministry which is j Th <- devils believe ami tremble, it is u. 



zealous for creeds and forms, but utters no 
efficient testimony against the popular sins of 
the age, is not a Christian but an infidel 
Ministry; and we counsel you, by your rev- 
erence for God and your love for man, to 
lend it no support. Be not deceived by the 
potent wiles, nor awed into submission by 
the anathemas of such a Church and such a 
Ministry. Though the hosts of sect and 
party are encar&yed on every side, he not 
dismayed nor disheartened, for in the conflict 
with unrighteousness, '' one shall chase a 
thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight." 
The advocates and apologists for Sin may 
seek to overwhelm you with the waves or 
popular indignation ; you may be denounced 
as hcritics, fanatics ami infidels ; but remem- 
ber for your consolation that such has been 
the fate of Reformers in all past ages, and 
that even Jesus of Nazareth, in whom was 
no guile, was charged with blasphemy and 
doomed to suffer an ignominious death upon 
the cross. 

In thus addressing you, we obey the holiest 
impulses of our nature, which ate ever propp- 
ing us to deeds of charitv and benevolence, 
and to manifestations of sympathy for all who 
are sincere ly concerned for the welfare of 
man. The religious association in which we 
are united assumes no ecclesiastical authority, 
neither does it, as such, set up any claim to 
your veneration as a Divinely constituted 
body. Your revererence is due to the mani- 
festations of the Divine Will in your own 
hearts, not to organizations, which, however 
holy in their origin and purposes, are but 
the instrumentalities adapted to the present 
condition and wants of mankind. 

A deep sympathy for you under the mani- 
fold trials and discouragements which throng 
your pathway, and an ardent desire that you 
may prove faithful even unto death, con- 
strains us, as your equal brethren, to offer 
you these words of admonition and cheer. 
Receive them, we pray you. in the spirit of 
Love, and so far as they shall be found to 
accord with your own highest convictions, 
let them be du'y impressed upon your minds 
and hearts. 

Finally, dear friends, be vigilant in the 
work to which you are called ; and may the 
God of Truth inspire you with wisdom and 
strength, and crow n your labors with glorious 
success. 

Signed on beha'f of the Yearly Meeting 
of Congregational Friends, held near Water- 
loo, Seneca County, N. Y., from the 4th to 
the 6th of the Seventh month, 1S49. 

Thomas M'Clintock, \ p| er ] u 



Christianity merely to he baptized, to par- 
take of the eucharist, to submit to the riu-s 
and ordinances of the church; for this is not ne- 
cessarily attended with a ( hang .; of character. 
But plainly it is Christianity to be imbued 
wi'.h the spirit of Christ, and to live as he 
lived. This is the great idea — Christianity 
is a life. Not a mere outw ard life, but an in- 
ward spiritual life, leading to a correspond- 
ing outward life. The inward lifo is tlio 
power and principle; the outward life the ex- 
ponent — the development — the fruit. Creed-* 
and dogmas are a logical coiistraetion — a the- 
ological science. Rites and ceremonies ait; 
symbolical institutions. The life is the re- 
ality. The most diverse forms of chaiacter- 
--the good and the bad, may unite in diefor- 
mer. Only one form of character — i nly the 
"ood unite in the christian life. The uuiiy 
of the life, therefore, is the highest unity; 
nay, the only real and essential unity. 

_Y. Y. Eraser,*'. 



How to punish those who lxjure YOlf. — 
Addin Ballou tells the following anecdote-. 
— "A worthy old woman, in the city of 
New York, was one day walking along the 
street quietly smoking her pipe. A jot a! sai- 
lor, rendered a little mischievous by liquet', 
came sawing dow n r and when opposite tke. 
old woman, saucily dashed her. aside, a;; I 
with a pass of his hand knocked the pipe out 
of her mouth. He then halted to hear hei- 
fret at his trick, and cjoy a laugh at her ex- 
pense. But what was his astonishment when 
she meekly picked up the pieces or her bro- 
ken pipe, without the least resentment in her 
maner; and giving him a dignified look of min- 
gled sorrow, kindness and pit}', said, ,flod 
forgive you my son as I do!' It touched a 
lender chord in lire heart of the rude tar. lie 
felt ashamed, condemned and repentant. Tlie 
tear started in his eye; lie must make repu- 
alion. He hoarlbv confessed his error; and 
thrusting both hands into his full pockets of 
change, forced tin; contents upon her, ex- 
claiming, 'God bless you, kind mother, J'l 
never do so again I' " 



RnoDA De Garmo, 

Hints to Young Men. — One of the most 
disagreeable characters on earth, is that of 
the grasping, avaricious, penurious man. — 
Generosity is perfectly compatible with econ- 
omy ; and the most noble-hearted, generous 
men, who do so much to benefit mankind, 
obtain means, not by close-fisted penurious- 
ness, but by economy. The distance is not 
greater between the zenith and the nadir, 
than between the covetous and economical 
man. The first banishes every just and 
honorable feeling from his heart, the latter 
fosters and ministers to them all. 



Marriage.- — The intervention of a priest, 
or other ecclesiastical functionary was not 
deemed indispensable to'n marriage ,''lint idle 
Council <'f Trent, in 1409. The celebrated 
decree passed in that session interdicted anv 
marriage otherwise tha in the presence of the- 
priest, and of at least two witneses. But, be- 
fore the time of Pope Jnnocentlll, (I MS) 
there was no solemnization of marriage in 
the Church; hut the bridegroom came to tin? 
bride's house, and led her home to his own, 
which was all the ceremony then used. Hans 
were first directed to be published by canon 
Waiter, in the year 1 2S0. 

Pennsylvani^Frccman. 



{k&Rev. L. Jlrdi!in:j,l). D.,^rg a Bishop 
in the Methodist Episcopal Church, says: 
'•The right to hold a slave is founded on this 
rule, — Therefore, all things whatsoever ye 
would that men should do to you, do ye evi n 
so unto them, for this is the law | and the 
prophets." — Christian Advocate and Jour/.a 1 - 

J^Therc are two sides to everything exc «pt 
the religion of a hypocrite, aud that is all-.. 
outside. 



BARBARISM. THE DOCTOR MISTAKEN. 

jxoi Ion.; s'.Kc>--, Washington Goodc, a col-- 1 We select' (lie following from T. S. Ar- 
mored man, w«s hung i:i Boston, for murder, ihurs Pictorial Tonsjierance Tales, advertised 
•}{ was ii'Ii-L"d fiWil lie killed his opponent in : for talc, in another column. 
» paroxism bt drunken ra^e. This chare-'' j >K»k2» pm-* nrr cr.-nt.ni" 



nroKism of drunken rage. 'J'his charge 
is sustained at the trial l>y .suspicious testi- 
.tiy. S^Ut trial, facts came to light 



V-DUAIt PAPA, Eti: SOISER 

One evening Mr. Jones came home to 

bid family, after having spent more than half 
inVHrfcflf* tosenin- #- crcdil.ihtv Bf the | ot his da >'' 8 eatings in -drink, stupid ns usu- 

vvidvnc- which ledmTis conviction. !: was a .'' wi r lh , "' qU ° r- KveD ? lhere , was a > iule 
., . ,,, jcneci fulness -among the members ol the 

.-,,„. to le evidence that Vit-ve? would hnVej household, it always disappeared when he 
1-1 to the conviction of a white man. Such came. It so happened thr.t Willy's sister 

was learning him a little song when the door 



>»5is the Xee.ing among the people that in a 
few (Jays a petfljuii Lr his pardon or a corn- 



opened, and in staggered the wretched father. 

| instantly their young voices were hushed; 
j-iU.aliOii o: m... tninisnmvmi. was sent to Gov. „„,i „. . i .1 5 , -, , „ , . ..' 
, . . ,, ' . 1 and so much was the -child affected hv this 

fcf'^f s, o-' ca 7 ,no « il5an 23 > 0(; ' cf lf^ ns j sudden darkening of the light which had for 

1..' Massachusetts, hu't the Governor, true*toLa Utile wfufe shone through the clouds ever 

ihe' Liarbari/m of by*g»ne a-'es, u-iused iSu< ' ! » a,, Ss»P: over Iht-wt, that" he busrt into tears 

* pii 6i t'u« pAlion<u*,abd the man was h«mg. ' . , 

,.. I 1 .... , ! -Mr. j ones had heard the. sweet voice of 

. ...rouo.ype has me iolio-yying „„ the j h?s youngest and best beloved child, blending 

with that of his sister, and had paused for a 
l^tie while outside of the door to listen to 
sounds so now and strange in his dwelling. 
E^e cotild not but notice the sudd-n bush his 
presence produced ; and woon this was fol- 
lowed ly the sohbiv; unc crying of Willy, 
hi- f it distui bed. The cnihl did not run 10 
meet him as usual, and when he held out his 
hatfd anil said, — 



"HANG THE SLACK RAS»'\ 
I fan!* Hi'm ftp— ; h4Vh!ac1c and sou 

Hang a ,:;.]:;<■:■ wh >u yiML can ; 

' lint si p ous Christian <Ium . 



. i bus to sliOiW your love t»» man. 
1'j.Jii.oyd f -r blood" sure every brjgh't man, 

Rvery Christian man will say : • 
'lint we need'nt haiig a whit:- man, 

L -l his crime 1.-:; what it may. 

Lei. Che whhe folks do the killing, 
Murder to (heir heart's content ; 
II convie.;< j d, we are willing 

u commute their punishi!:.;i:t. 
jjUt if blacks, by wrong imbruled, 
• !"!ie jo c] > this dreadi'u! thing, 
'''.'(I ! we'd nut have them "commuted," 
Let Lne hated rascub swing. 

i i i»g him high for an example ; 
JJhu'k to ks (to not often kilj ; . 

<).'<; 



V. 



m* 



'. a chance to give a sample 
e honored ham-man's skifl. 



•teh his nttejv — he's but a nf'jiycr, 
OWw of A -Vic's eursiid race ; 
V* hal a gloiii'iis, heaven! yijlgu re, 
iS.yunmg Christians to their lace. 

li :: > !, ;..-i:<;s, he;-iJ.>s come-outers, 
J'.iiuimen, "ht.ni we need'n't fear; 4 
1 irSaels/nm x . jc'i , ' V bo atensj 

a; G:iH.-*soi/ and Spear'f " 
^•'h'd'ips, A'l-h-ew. Wright and Parker, 
i^aiii-r.! «u" u,Tsic<t ley crew, 
a.: toious, whiter, darker, 
uuil i imijuiiy — let 'em slew. 

t hen jtji.fi ttjive the uascid Strang h-.I, 
i'lt-'s Seen lijiendless from his birth ; 
'--tier men than he have dang ed 
Twftct tie- !vav.'i:s and the earl!:, 
j-i. his n --ck ; he's but. a str.umer, 
-aied to pur Chri.-tian land ; 
can hang him without ilangcr, 
'Tis high and no'de stand. 

Ar • we not God's bius fulliiling 
■"V'ien we choke a man to d.-atii ■! 
iVby t'u-a can we he un-yillina 

1 : should see h'm yield his br.-a'.li ? 
'*!•;•«•" in tnis goodly citv 
'!) : ih'h ss would enjoy the sight ; 
' ''•.li.i-ilv 'iwouid h> a iiity, 
'!,' !': ;\- v/ denied their right. 

Ra'-i.- ain;*: Ihe christian gallows','' 
<Tsilhi rifo nr! the g.tpin ' crowd ; 
It you'd rmke m u cold and ca!lo-.i<, 
tr-.t, i-h his rope an I shroud ; 
Jhd.v out ih", militai-y, 
j - •' tiv- bands ofirjusie phiv ; 

' i.- h t-.i-n ro-.-vl, as miking merry ; 
J . : ::k hate ; a g-i'a day. 

Put 1!" -i-ifT»!d on Ihe Coni noi, 

I ■' h -r.- tlv inukiutd - can m -ei ; 
-•.'i tii • s«h'»»is and ladi -s suuunon, 
//•t i|i -ei ;dl eiijoy th • treat. 

" • it's 'iu us.- of lieing " private" ?, 

II g :g i • a righ'eou . cause"; 

. n ih > ild witn :..«< »*bit you d:iveat, 
v --l)-.:i y.ni ex teute ih : la-.vs. 

1 > ith ■>', g.-.:h -r all the pe;>p'e, 

Ii-'t not one bt left at nam • ;. 

L -t if -im in.mn' on Pafk-st| -t steapl • 

A 1 i til ' S ! a e h l.is-'s Ipfty do n • ; 

it -ig tbu he 'sail tlrii t»« cannon i 



V.v tv tioot and corn ir fill 



's n >t a plase to s*nn' o 

t iftilxt to Brbon Hill 



Oh ! (1 1 h m« him — WIS h »'vr-> 
Ma v a d-.iv fir si"li a e'n-'c ■ 
tan h:-m >'n ".i' I bit ba'ied 
fine. ! n v gri- -f i'!v hi;'il se/1.1 ; 
I) mc on i o iiu'y .' oh 
71 r.v we'll 

A 1 1 t'.jii - 



.' oh, how fu my 
0 11,),) ) lb'; sigV — 
t'i < rim v. 



'■('m-.e. liei\">, °V{?iy, and tell me what's 
the matter "with^you." — 
! t\t illy, though he tried to stifle his sobs, 
j lid not, a!, first, go to his father. At length, 
j i 10 v. -ever, lie was on his knee, and his sad, 
! tearful face, nestled down upon his bosom. 
" ? What| made you cry, dear? Come tell 
iwe." These words Mr. Jones repeated over 
and over again ; land, at last said, "Why did 
j you stop singing when 1 came in ?" 

The child was still silent, 
j "Why, Wih'y? Say." 

Willy Praised his eyes, still brim full of 

■ tears, to his father's face, and said, in a whis- 
i j"' 1 ' that reached only his ears, 

"We can't sing when you come !" 
"Why not? 1 would like to hear you 
I sing." 

"We fcpl so bad that we choke right up." 
{ "Wljy do you feel bad, Willy V 

" Because — ; beceause, — you never come 
j homo fd'jcr. ' 

These words of Willy's, uttered in so sad 
a whis-per, v.ere to the heart of the father, 

■ like a K;-:il in a sure place. 

He said no more, but, all the evening sat 
iltent^nij ihoughtful. ♦And, whit wasstrana;- 
r still, did not go out to spend an hour or 
j two in the ale house as was his custom. 
I Willy sobbed himself to sleep in his arms. 
1 On the next evening, unexpected to all, 
' Mr. Jones came home to his family as sober 
I is he bad left it in the morning. The chil- 

n. ett looked at him wonderin»ly ; and their 
i mother, bardlv crediting her own eyes, bc- 
! came, so affected that she could hardly finish 
i preparing the evening meal. 

It was a glad time to all, when Mr. Jones 

I --elared. at 'the supper table, that he had 

dg led the pledge. Mrs Jones burst into 
^ 'ears and cried for jov ; the older children's 

races beamed with delight, and Willy, get- 
' ling off of bis chair, climbed into his father's 

. ■■-.). an! putting his arms around his neck. 
I kissed him, and then laid his head upon his 

(.(•east. ,So touching an expression of the 
. mild's joy, d>eply affected Mr. Jones ; and 
i avaae him more earnestly resolve never again 

■ ti) taste the maddening poison which had 
: fcell nigh destroyed him, body and soul. 

I III a little while, every thing became chang- 
j -d in the, horn - of Mr. Jon--s. There were 
; -letter food and hetter clothing for all. A bun 
Ired little co-.nforts, to which all lal been 
i Grangers, came in, one after another, lo-op- 
I in-g evefr fresh in mind the blessed reforni- 
ttion that had taken place. The voices. 
I'.luned to cheerful --ong<. no longer tr-mbled 
into silence when the father appeared ; but, 
' »ther look a glider expression. If there 
. o.i- 'if th-. children happier than the 
rest , it was Willy. 

A vear or two made still more apparcn' 
the blessings of t -nip -ran-^e. Mr. Jones had 
n '\ed iuLo a larger hous-, an:l bought new 
. n m'lir \ The children were all at good 
. '.!iop,!s, ami tie- oldest daughter was rcceiv- 
1 ig lessons from a music leacher. The 
'iioth instead of being worn down by toil 
rid .sorrow, bad now, as much assistance a- 
' -d 'd i-i t lie family, and her face had 
. or a happy look. 

1 1 1 two years after Mr. Jones had si.-,'n- 



r«if 



ple< 



In- was taken down with a 



i'lncss, which lasted many days, and 
iitOught him to the vcrv brink of the grave, 
lis famii , as might bo supposed, were in 
1 lit. 'rc. s. After the disease had abated,] 



the sick man remained very low, and the 
doctor became anxious lest the enfeebled 
powers of his system should, instead of re- 
covering themselves, become entirely ex- 
hausted. 

One, 011 visiting Mr. Jones, he said : — 

'J think I will order you a little brandy 
twice a day.' 

'1 would rather not take brandy, doctor,' 
replied the sick man. 

'I am sure it wiil do you good.' 

'And 1 know it will do me harm, Doctor. 
I have not tasted a drop of any kind of liquor 
for two years, and do not intend drinking any- 
more as long as I live.' 

l l only order the brandy as a medicine, 
not as a beverage,' said the doctor. 'You 
stand absolutely in need of a stimulant. 
Without something to quicken \ our vital 
system, I am seriously afraid that you will 
never be raised from this bed.' 

'W hile I, Doctor,' said the sick man, 
wiih great earnestness, "am afraid that life 
obtained through the agency of brandy, would 
be to me a curse instead of a blessing.' 

' Why do you say that V inquired the 
doctor.' 

'Because one draught of that firey liquid 
would awake a slumbering appetite, which 
lam fearful 1 cou'd dot control. lama 
reform, d man, Doctor.' 

'Ihe doctor, after remaining silent some 
time, said, 

'i ought not, Mr. Jones, to disguise from 
you the fact that you are in a very critical 
situation. This disease, which I have suc- 
ceeded in breaking, has left you so low that 
it is doubtful, if unassisted by some stimulant, 
whether nature will have power to rally 
I am sure a tea spoonful of brandy once or 
twice a day, diluted with a little water, 
would be of great service. Life is too pre- 
cious to be thrown away, when the means 
of saving it is at hand.' 

Willy, who scarcely ever left his father's 
room, was sitting upon the bed, listening 
with great attention to what the doctor was 
saying. Mr. Jones, did not immediately re- 
ply. He closed his eyes, and remained, 
evidently, in earnest thought, for nearly a 
minute. He then said, 

'Doctor, the life of the body is of but little 
value set against the life of the soul. I will 
not, to save the one, put in jeopardy the 
other. If I am to die, let me die sober.' 

The doctor seemed ha'f offended at this, 
and replying a little cooly, 

'Just as you please.' 
Bade his patient good morning, and retired. 
On the next clay, when he again cniled to 
see him, no improvement was apparent) but, 
on the contrary, it was very plain that the 
sick man was failing. His feet and hands 
were cold, and he lay in a half stupor. 

Again the physician proposed the use of a 
little brandy. 

'Madam/ he said to Mrs. Jones, 'unless 
your husband will consent to take some stim- 
ulant, I see no hope of his recovery.' 

Distressed and bewildered, the poor wife 
knew uot what to say or do. The life of her 
husband was precious to her, for since his 
reformation, he had been kind, provident, and 
tender to all in bis happy household. But, 
from the thought of putting brandy to his 
lips, which she knew must inflame his old 
appetite, her heart shrank with a sickening 
dread." For sooner wonld she see him in the 
:rave than have; him fall away again ; for in 
such a fall there would he no hope. She an- 
swered the doctor's appeal not in words, but 
in tears. 

The wet eyes of his wife nppeared to 
arouse the sick man from a stupor that had 
•rept < war him. To leave her and the chil- 
dren alone and unprotected in the world was 
bard. 

'Doctor,' he said, in a feeble voice, lifting 
his head and resting it upon his hand, 'Doc- 
tor,' tell me truly ; do you not think there is 
laager in one like me tasting brandy or any 
other intoxicating liquor?' 

'There certainly is some danger,' replied 
she doctor, 'of having the old desire excited 
by so doing. But you tryist remember that 
die stimulant is given as a medicine ; and it 
wid be your duty as a man and as a christian 
to resist and control the morbid appetite, 
when you feel it.' 

'It is easy to sav that, Doctor, for one who 
has never been cursed with a drunkard's fiery 
appetite. But ' 

He murmered indistinctly the closing sen- 
tence. 

'As vour physician,' said the doctor, atfer 
remaining silent for some; moments, and be 
spoke in a firm voice, 'I prescribe a U-a spoon- 
full of brandy in an equal quantity of W&tftr. 
It is my duty to save life, and 1 sec no oiher 
wav.' 



'As your patient, then, I suppose I must 
submit,' returned Mr. Jones, in a low des- 
ponding voice. 'Life is precious lor the sake 
of my wife and little ones.' 

As he said this, Willy, who had been on 
the bed, listening earnestly, since the eoctor 
came in, crept forward, a .1 throwing his 
arms around his father, murmered in his tar, 
yet so distinctly that all beard the words, 

'Dear Papa ! Die sober !' 

Whether the child understood the full 
meaning of bis words or not, they thrilled 
through the hearts of all present. Instantly 
the sick man's arms were clasped about his 
boy, and be responded in a delertniued voice, 

'Yes. if die I must, it shall be sober ! I will 
not touch the accursed thing.' 

Better and safer than brandy, proved this 
heart warming and exciting stime.lous From 
that moment the vital powers of the invalid 
rallied, ami in a few «eeks he was well 
a'jain 



ORPHAN ASYLUM OF ALBANY. 
The following, from the Northampton 
Courier, shows the value of an exclusely 
vegetable diet for children. 

The instituiion was established about the 
close of the year 1&'!J, or the beginning of 1 
the year IS.fO. Shortly after its establish- 1 *"' 
ment it contained 70 children, and subse-} 
quently many more. For the first three; 
years tin? diet of the inmates consisted ofl 
fine bread, rice, Indian puddings, pomioe+J 
and other vegetables, and fruit with mi k ; 
to which was added lb-sh or flesh s up, once, j 
a dav. Considerable attention was also paidl 
to bathing and cleanliness, and clothing, air « 
and 'exercise. Bathing, however, was per- 
formed in a perfect manner only once in three . 
weeks. Many were received in bad health, 
and not a few continued sicklv. 

In the fall of the diet and regimen of 

the inmates were mat- rially changed. Daily 
ablution of the whole body in the use of theJ 
cold shower or sponge ' bath, or in cases of 
special disease, the tepid bath, was onn. 
of the first steps taken ; then ihe fine bp ad"- 
was laid aside for that made of unbo'ted 
wheat meal, and soon after, flesh and flesh 
soups were wholly banished ; and thus tiny 
continued to advance, till in about three 
months more they had come fully upon the* 
vegetable system, -end had adopted reformed 
habits in regard to sleeping, air, clothing, ex- "J 
ercise &c. They continued on this course 
till August, 183C, when the results were ai 
follows : During the first three years in which 
the old system was followed, from lour to 
six children were contiually on the sick list, 
and sometimes more. A physician was need- 
ed once, twice, 01* three limes a week, an 
deaths were frequent. 1 During this wktn 
period there were between thirty and fort 
deaths. After the new sytein was fan! 
adopted, the nursery was soon entirely vacate 
od, and the services of the nurse and the 
physician no longer needed, and for more than 
two years no case of sickness or death took 
place In the succeeding twelve months 
there we>-e three deaths, but they were new 
inmates, and were diseased when admitted^ 
and two of them were iiiiots. The Report 
of the. Managers says, 'Under this system of 
dietetics the health of the children has not 
only h en presi rved, but those who came to 
the asylum weakly have become healthy andl 
strong, and' greatly increased in activity^ 
cheerfulness, and happiness.' The Sti|)erin«' 
! tendants also slat-, that 'since the new re^i-i 
I men has been fully adopted, there has been! 
a rcmarknb'e increase of health, strength, 
activity, vivacity, cheerfulness and content- 
ment among the children. The change of ^ 
temper is vcrv great. They have become! 
less turbulent, irritable, peevish, and discon-1 
tented, and far more managable, gentle, peac-J 
able, and kind to each other.' One r.f them| 
further adds, 'There has been a great increase* 
in their mental activity and power; the 
quickness and acumtn of their perception, 
lb- vigor of the:r apprehension, and the 
powc- of their retention daily astonish me.' 



Secret Societies. — At a lat- se s -n 
the New York and Pennsylvania 1 ■ 
Meeting of the Free Will Baptists, a sei 
resolutions against secret orders was pass d, 
which are quite stringent in their character. 
They declare that the tendency ot such orders 
is to destroy the peace of Zion ; forbid the 
licensing of any minister who is known to be 
a member of any of them, receommen I the 
cluVches under their authority to expel 
members who adhere to secret orders, and 
interdict fellowship with an. church, quarter- 
ly or yearly Meeting which refuses to coin- 
ply with the resolutions. 



BOONTON. OCTOBER 20, 1S40. 



FR.l TIZISJI'ITF. 



AN IMPORTANT SUBJECT. 

The fact that more than half of the children 
born, die before five years of age, that 
comparatively few reach full manhood, and 
those few spend a life of unhappincss in 
various ways, the result of disease, is a suffi- 
cient warrant for a close and scrutinizing 
inquiry into the causes of so great an abridg- 
ment of life and happiness from the amount 
which undoubtedly m m was original)' di s- 
tilled lo enjoy. While disease is a constant 
attendant of man from the cradle to the grave, 
and death is taking ofl'a large mujoriry before 
adult age, we are willing to examine the 
merits of apparently the most fanatical no- 
tions respecting ih 1 dreadful agencies of 
disease and death. One thing is certain, 
that this unnatural waste of human life and 
accumulation of human mi.-crv, is not the 
result of an occasional violation of the laws 
of In-all!). The wonderful powers of na'ure in 
successfully resisting the iiitlu- rices of trans- 
gression at long intervals, forbids the idea that 
anything short of habitual, every day trans- 
gressions of these laws can produce such 
an abridgment of human Life. What, then, 
can be more important for constant thought, 
conversation and thorough investigation than 
this subject? Is it not worthy of our high- 
est and most incessant attention ? Can we 
cease or suspend our efforts till we K now the 
truth, without treachery to humanity? 

Believing as every enlightened mind must 
that a perfect intellectual development can 
never exist in connection with a diseased 
physical development, does not every interest 
of humanity call incessantly and imperative- 
ly for investigation and reform ? Considering 
t'ie intimate conneit'on between mind and 
body, the reciprocal influence of each upon 
the pth tr, is not that individual who can 
turn his back upon this subject, discourage 
Investigation and strive to crush the rising 
spjri^-nf reform, a traitor to humanity' — 
Truth, reason j humanity, religion, 

iv tore, God, nil answer in ijj < a!": 
The true christian philanlhi . t 
willing, yes anxious to inquire into ■< 
insignificant thing that ma ■ be presuin 
any one to have a hearing on the subj . 
Old habits and practices mult b>i « pi • d 
jnto with an honest Irtilh-Ioyiog a 
spirit (hat vYi }> oag, though ii 

have the sane io;i ,>f agss, and ( eiYc.-e he 
lie. lit, though it be uupopuiar and require the 
sacrifice of long cherished idols. So insep- 
< rably connected are a healthy exercise of 
our intellectual faculties, an amiable temper 
and all other God-!ike qualities, with a 
heal i by and perfect development of our 
physical nature, that we never need expect a 
pure religion nor an acceptable service to 
God, until we return t > a perfect obedience 
to those laws under wnich alone they can b e 
attained. We have defaced the purj image 
of God, in the constant defilement, in innu- 
merable ways, of our own bodies ; and there 
i-i no way for us to restore that image, in its 
original purity, hu'. by returning to a full and 
perfect obei e ce to his laws. Our own 
happiness, present and future, tan nev r ht 
attained in a y other way. Every interest 
of humanity, physical, spiritual and e ternal - 
require a return to that obedience. Wccan 
not therefore in anyway be true loourselves, 
to humanity or to God, without entering 
with zeal, with perseveranc, with self denial 
and the truth-seeking spirit, into this sub- 
ject, which lies at the foundation of all true 
reform. We must no longer dishonor God 
by the habitual, cverv dav defll?i!)ent of his 



our c.v.i 



pcrsfl 



We must be- 



gin now, ai;d engage in tl'c most srruy'ntz- 

ing examination of :.!' ■ e 

s < i!id tL-u t,; i.y b , . . • ■<:'-; s.. 
We tmisi n«t think ji bencu'ii ..e 
to examine attentively matters appaientlv tin 
most trivail, in order to asc< rtain their bear- 
ing upon life and health. We must examine 
all systems. — In eating and chinking, we must 
note critically the respective merits of every 
article of food or drink, 111 their moral, intel- 
lectual and physical bearings. In order to 
get at the truth on these points, we must 
know the capabilities of the stomal h and the 
other organs of the body, how dim ase. anti 
degeneration proceed iftperckjj'tib! V I v 
grees from one organ to another until ih. 
whole body is corrupted, and men.nl and 
moral progress ;:nl elevation rendered there- 
by impossible. We must enquire into the [ 
use of animal food, and ascertain whether 
its use, in connection with our slaughter- 
house cruellies, does not impair our moral 
perceptions, and in this ai:d other ways hin- 
der our proper development. We mus' in- 
quire fully into the effects of Tea, Coffee and 
Tobacco, and not relax our investigations un- 
til we Know the whole trvih in relation »c 
them. We must enquire faithfully into the 
character of all the alchohahc mixtures in 
use, not omitting Boot Beer, or any other 
artificial mixture. We must extend our in- 
vestigations into the merits of Butter and 
Cheese, as articles of food, of spices, potash, 
soda and all other condiments, so called, not 
even passing over the long sanctioned and 
sanctified use of salt. And we must never 
permit ourselves to grow tired of the inves- 
tigation until wo know the whole truth about 
them. Research and conversation on these 
topics which have so important a bearing up. 
on the physical condition, should be regarded, 
us indeed they are, when properly viewed, 
in the highest degree intellectual, because 
they bear directly upon a point, the right un* 
derstanding of which is indispensible to our 
intellectual development and progress. 

We must take into consideration the sub- 
ject of clothing. Do we clothe too much, or 
not enough ? Do we use the right material ? 
Are our clothes made in the best way ? Or 
do they need to be improved ? Do we sleep 
too much or too little, on the proper kind of 
bf>ds. in rooms of th^ right temperature and 
■ : ' v •nt'late;; ? Do ve labor too 

.in'afh' £>.• too. lit tin, or at unseasonable hours ? 



DIED. 

On the evening or the 12th inst. x in Mil- 
!•! Con: e but, at the fidii.se of her son- 
!.:\v,S..-: a I A T,l:)isi<ri:l, where she had 
0 1 1.1 a v isit, Mrs. Iiuldah Grimes, widow 
o. ,b na'han G imes, late of Parsippany, N. J.^ 
aged 73 y- ais. Her remains were taken to 
Parsippany for interment. She was one of 
the faithful. She livid the tkue i,u e, ful- 
filled hi r mission, and di 1 art< cl in l ea( 1.. 



r? wi, 1 v -Trr v.-—r- mrmwJ iiir- — — — - 1 

(&-TOBACCO : ITS HISTORY, NA\ 
TURE, AND EFFECTS on tuk Bony 
■\nd MiND t by Joel Shew, M. D., publish, .! 
by Fowlers §; Wells, 131 Nassau stree , 
IS'. Y. Price 2 ~; cents. 

Let those who wish to understand the 
nature and%Fecfs of Tobacco, buy and read 
Viis book. * 



fl^THfi WATER CUKE JOURNAL, 
AND HERALD CF PEIt/IUiS, edited 
h Plaina -id, on the 20th September, j by Joel Shew, M. I)., puffs!), d by Kov Pis 
of Consumption, which she bore With great j & Wdb, 131 Nassau stre< t N. Y., monfhlj , 
u ->'oi's? and p-rfect resignation, Marv j at on( ' ! lollar a . v, ' i,r > «l«'"ys contains manv 
Ann. wife of Jacob L. Brothorlon, 1 



Laty \ t - ' . — ' 

the ! valu; "'' e ; '' i(, 'es on all subji eis appertaini) 



age. 



tivily an 



•2ml year of h 

nil: eliopiite wife, a fond mother, a kind sister, j 
am' a firm friend. May her virtues be long j 
cherished by her surviving friends. — Plain- : 
field Gazette. 



'to Health and good Morals. It inucu'catesj 



iJG V 

iciei 



ma::!i'g a s;u- 
i*i!--iK' I' at bur 



ery side in liiexh 
-.at eff'f'. (he» the 

.t W, 



di 



hands rniie 

li'iys ? \V \:rA •■<■ ■ -V d$f>js the almost uni 
sal practice of do--! 1 j at 1 h'ligaing, incl 
that ciii'i i^e on in recju'ar p-rartice as well as 
that with the innumerable patent comooon'!=, 
have upon health and ! ougevity? Don-; 
our numerious false religious svstem's j'and 
in the wav of man's pro»PS3 tow oils phys- 
ical, inteHectaal and moral perfection, and 
consequent enjovment'? Af.<\ how are we to 
find the true religion, but by examining the 
subject as we would any other subject of 
equal importance, with a determination to 
cast off the false and embrace the true ? 

In short, are we certain that we do no' 
need reform and improvement in all that, we 
do? Do we eat and drink without any error 
as to quality or quantity, think, labor 
and in all nffirr thinns do right, (t't'l in si, 
dointf tr:ihf serve God 1 

These are topics of the greatest importance, 
They in fact embrace all the interests of 
humanity , physical and spiritual, and de- 
mand the candid and impartial attention of 
all men. We have long intended to devote 
a considerable portion of our paper to this 
subject, and have delayed it for want of time 
to prepare articles for publication, but will 
delay it no longer, and when we cannot find 
time to write out our own thousrhts, we will 
give the thoughts and experience of otherc 
j'riicioi's'y scler'.p.l, 



a great amount of mipoi an tnnh. 

Let all those interested in the use of wa- 
ter as a 11 edicine, (and who Should r.ot her) 
read the Water C ure .,'< uii ai. 

• ^- •• ^s^m^^ lj ^u^ . ^, J ^ } CISEAi ES ( F WLVi hR.-Th ; s s 

When Dr. Franklin was serving his ap-!' !,-! lil,e . ° f a l ,! ""l' Ma of " ! P«g l 'J 
prcnticesbip to the art of Printing ho was ! Couftm^iun, Colds, Asthma, an., otbtl 



owed 37 1-2 cents per week for Ids board. 



.diseases of the Cl est, with lnslr6ction,$ 



. the treatment, an I observaiions on diet anil 
Of this.be expended 17 1-1 cents. What he. .- . 1 "'I 

, i ir r 1 i 1 i regimen, in JanKuajje adapted to commoJ 

saved was expended for usetu> bo"ks. 0 ' ft -s 1 1 1 I 1 " 9 

,,1 f \ t\ 1 c , ■ .1 iv i renders, by it. J. Culver., oil , \1. 1). Itcui.i 

We find the above lacts in the \ » ater-eu re . r ' ' ' j 

t i t\ t> -i r >• i i-i 'jmbs in.iny very exoallent and imooiiaiiB 
Journal. Dr. !• ranklin lived exelusiveh on, - ' •. ?* i w " UL 

the plainest vegetable food, and the eiR-c, \ thm ? S ' U " vt:r >' |,,,,, . v l " k "" u ' 

was a more perfect development of both the I " ls l' llhl ' s ;'^l |>jf J. S. Rntlfw d, CJit.lou 

Hall, New 1'ork, price 2i) cms. 



PICTORIAL TEMPEI!A.\CETAI EsJ 
By T. S. Arthur. — This liilie book i> full ..f 
instruction and amusement 



it tli 



:or old 0 young . 
Price 2") cents. 



physical and intellectual man than is found in 
one of a thousand of the human race. If some 
of our young men of this day would pursue 
a similar course, they might reap as much 
benefit from it as Franklin did, and become ! It j s f or sa j., 
Philosophers too. 

i £3-Tni: WATER CURE MANUAL] 

' is a hook of nearly 300 duodeeinio pages, L / 
Rum's Doings. — A team driver named | Joel Shew, iM . D., publish, d by Fow lei's &J| 
Benjamin Barnes, in a state of intoxication, j Wel^, 131 Nasaau street, N. V., price oOct. . j 
fell from his wagon in Rockaway Valley, on ! Cur xi.-ws of Water Cure ha\e jjees biloral 
the 7th inst., and was killed by the Wheel j expressed. While we do not believe tbaffl 
passing over his head. It is said he only j the numerous other curative means whicifl 
lived about ten minutes. The Rum seller's ' p.ovcd \ aluable by every «'«yV 1 xpon- 
skirts, .we suppose are cloan? ? j ence, sh.ould be wholly exc'wd.d, aj.a 

j willing to give water tjie big! c.-t rai k am'ol 

j medical agents, l oth as a . me and pre\ < lit i\ ■. 
{^Reader, if you value health, don't^il ( W( , ,, Hi( . Vi . v iU , „,.,„.,,,,... 

to peruse carefully and commit to memory \ / wnum „f,] )( . ancients, ^louM be the n*4 
the brief statistical report of the Albany Or- 1 fjunim of the present and ail iuture ger,oiali< 11 -. 
phan Asylum, in another column of this; The above book give> a -reat amount of 
paper. It speaks volumes. , j valuable iufoi n.ation oil this subject. 



THE FRIEND OF YOUTH. 
This is the title of a quarto monthly paper 
of eight pages, to bo issued by Mrs. Margaret 
Bajley. Washington, District of Columbia, 
corn iitariciog on the first of Nov., devoted to 
,'i .pHii, Peace, Temperance, Natural Hisr 
ton , Scenery, Sketches of Travel, &c. Mrs. 
Bailey is to Be Editor, T. S. Arthur, Mrs, 
Southworth and others, co itribuiors. It will 
ouhil ss be :.n excellent paper, and tuist it 
will b 1 lib bfalty patron iz -d. We intended to 
copy [I .• iole Prbsp»ctit*j but hav- not 
■i.vn. ,,'ims are 50 en's a sing'e copy, 
j copies for $2 00 

A SYSTEM OF \ 'EGETAIJLE DIET, 
as sanctioned by Medical Men and by Expe- 
rience in all ages, incjydiny Vegetable Cook- 
ery, by Dr Wm. A. Alcott, Publish, d and 
for sale by Poolers &. Wi.lls, 131 Nassau st, 
N. Y This is on.; of llie most important 
books 1 v. r published. We cannot see ho\\ 
any bones!, 1 ruth-loving man or wennan can 
;ead i, and h 'sttate between the pure produc. 
ttong of the eanhand the fruits of the s augh- 
ter house. No person can read it without 
benefit. 

fe»THE AMERICAN PH&ENOLQQ. 
1CAL JOURNAL.— This valuable Jounml 
is published by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nas- 
sau street, N. Y., at one dollar a yea.-, 
monthly. It shou'd be read by all in favor 
of intellectual progress. The No, for Sej t fm- 
ber contains as usual a variety of matter b"t!i 
intercs >t)g anil ente rtain ing. The Journal 
is never read without bsnolit by any who a;-.; 
desirous of intellecfgnl adva-!ccHiv»t, 



{^NATIONAL ER A. Thi- piper pub, 
Mshed at Washington by. Dr IVnley, niaiii-? 
tains its claims uqon the people for sopjiort — 
I It is ably conducted and is one of the mo t 
I useful I'apers of the Lu.d — L-t all who « is 1 
I to enjoy a feast of literal v matter | and lear 1 
; the most important political |'|PW5 of the d;r, , 
: take that paper. 

#5-. ALMANACS rOR i ^ 
The Plireuqio-.ie.d Alnr.nee- for 1 s-Y1 i 1 ? 
ptiblished atul for sale by l^owlep, S W.'lb, 



131 



•lssau street, 



Y 



i; contains th 



iikeli'.-ses of \\ jiliain ( '. IJi'yun'i P. njr.in n 
brankiin, Hiram Powers I.. mis .Yipoi.-o.-,, 
Uaniel B one, M.irj,;oel i'lior Mini oth> l.., 
with inUn-esiic.g .sketches' of eiml], a id muctl 
other i! attcr. it will no doubt have a Wit * 
circu laiion. 

Also T-i ik WAticii erne. .\r. \.;c.for 1S5!», 
by the same publisher^, Fowlers & VVep.s, 
131 N'as au street. It'oontanis directions for 
the various uses of water, an article o;| 
Anatomy apd Physiel.igv, another on <|., ; 
Teeth, »ith manv oih r articles, altogether 
an excellent ani.le for cireuidtio'ii. Sulrlj 
things will not he read wi'.le'iit pi'ofVf. 



THE LIBERTY ALMANAC P 



1 850 



j is Mow published and ready tor sa'e bv W»f. 
Hnthed, 61 John street, N. Y. I; contains 
an abstract view of slaverv in nil |is!<jir^ 

: ings, political, mora! and religious, the trim 
remdy pointed, out, Bv Win. C,!o/)d,el', vl-.iiso 
name is a sufficient reco)rimend-i!ii>n fo every 
person knowing the vigor of Ins mind as ;). 
\yritcr. We wish it-aftf* tensive circnlaiiop. 
Price 5 cents single, -It) cuts a di.z. ';-','>'/ 



per 



per i( 



SCORN NOT THY BROTHER. 

"O, scorn not thy brother, 
Though J)i>nr he may bp 

I le's hvund io smother 

Ami bright world with thee. 

"Should sorrow assail him, 

Give heev lo his sighs; 
Should strengh ever fail him, 

0, help 'him to rise ! 

1 The pathway we're roaming 

Mid flowpets may lie, 
Bui soon will Lite's gloaming 

(*>nii* dark'ning our sky. 

"Then seek not to smother 
kind feelings in thee, 

And scorn DJt lily brother, 
Though poor he may be. 

"Co clieer those who languish 
Their dead hopi s among, 

In whose hearts stern anguish 
The harp hath unstrung! 

"Thev'll soon in another 
Bright land roam with thee; 

So, scorn not thy brother, 
Though poor h« maybe." 

Grab a in 's il tag azine. 



The Graven ef Common Soldiers. — We bear 
sail! in eloquei ce and poetry 
soldier's grave," but when in 



il • a'.1t>al 

■bout ''the 



i'latrshurg, I learned what kind of burial the 
mass of soldiers receive. Most of the sea- 
in n who were not thrown during thVbattle 
into the lake, we/e buried, both British and 
American, on a small island, in large: holes; 
now so soveied with hushes that one can 
scarewlv find them without a guide. The 
poor soldiers fared still worse ; for thejr were 
in *ome eases so slightly covered, that their 
arms and feel stuck out of the ground, and 
•hogs rooted them up, and dogs gnawed their 
bones. A ma i riding in a carriage heard a 
rattling noise behind him, and turning saw 
his dog at work on a human skull with a bul- 
let in it, which rattled as he shook it. 

Here is the soldier's < nd. Talk as we 
plea*e about his glory, it does in fact end in 
this alone : a burial in the same style as that 
of a dead ox! Now and then an officer is 
honored after death, for v ital his soldiers did 
under him; the poor fellows who are shovel, 
ed, without a V-.it or a sigh, with no record 
<>r remembrance, into a common grave, fo] 
hags to root, and crows to pick, and dogs to 
gnaw.— Adcocate of Peace. 



Rr.GUt.AH Qvacklrv. — There is a class 
of regularly educated'physicians w ho, instead 
of restingltheir hopes of success on their edu- 
cation, habits, manners and principles, claims 
which all intelligent people will cheerfully 
admit, talk of yetting patients just as trading 
men talk of getting moi;ey, or the demagogue 
of getting voters, add are rs little scrupulous 
as either what means they employ to accom- 
plish their end. It is anins'ng to observe 
w hat mean arts andjmnnuvers these patient- 
getters evolve to accomplish their sordid pur- 
poses. Tic/ force then* acquaintance upon 
families where the cts oins and decencies of 
society give them no claim, or render it un- 
acceptable ; they make uninvited calls upon 
newly arrived strangers ; they fn q-ient pro- 
miscuous assemblies, street corr.cvrs and bar- 
rooms, where they descant mercilessly upon 
their success in fictitious difficult cases to 
credulous invalids and notorious gossips; they 
never weary of inquiring about tl e sick of 
the neighborhood, or neglect to hint that the 
sefferers have been ill a great deal longer than 
sonfe of their own patients who have been 
afflicted with the same^eomplaints. If they 
are old they dilate upon the advantages of 
experience an I the danger of employing 
novices, and, young or old, they plead per- 
petual calls and occupation as excuses for 
pretended inattention. They join religious 
communities, and assume their peculiarities, 
with a view to attract their attention and 
custom, and sometimes even pervert the holy 
institution of marriage by ( directions formed 
for the sole purpose of securing the services 
' f a good jo sip and coadjutor in the honor 
able science of patient getting. 

We could illustiate the practice of thest 
pmpyrics by many examples, which are with 
in our own kdowlcdge, and which, if sufii 
eienlly particularized, even without the aid 
of personalities, wouldjjbring to the recogni- 
tion of very many of our eitiz"ns, characters 
and practices with which they would find 
themselves wonderfully familiar. But we 
refrain from proceeding thus far for the pres- 
nt, as our object is notjj to worki ndividua' 
injury, but to put the public, more on their 
guard against men w ho resort to such expe- 
dients. A little closcobservation will enable 
anyjsane citizen to detect them, and his own 
'udgment cannotibut convince him of the im. 



tiie jail in Washington. 



Rev. A. A. Phelps visited this jail in April 
1S34, and made the following statement : 

"There are in the prison sixteen solitary 
cells on the lower floor, the debtor's and crim- 
inal's rooms being above. These cells are 
mostly used for the confinement of slaves 
lodged there by the master as a punishment 
for some fault ; of slaves "suing for tlieir 
freedom," as they termed it, and of colored 
persons, bond or free, arrested as runaways, 
or lodged there by the slave dealers. We 
found not less than thirteen individuals in 
them at this time, every one of whom claim- 
ed that, on one ground or other, they were 
entitled to their freedom. In one cell we 
found a Fanny Jackson, with three little 
children, one of them an infant at her breast. 
Her husband, also in the prison, was in a 
separate cell. They were claimed by one 
Asa Buck'ier, of Loudon Co. Va'., but having 
!)oen in Washington several years, unclaimed 
by the master, they were suing for their free- 
dom under some act which entitled them to it. 
They had laid in prison, awaiting their trial, 
nine months. We spoke to the mother about 
her little ones, and we found that she had 
indeed a mother's heart. The scene cannot 
be described. 

"llavhacl Tamer w as the occupant of an- 
other cell. She was young — had been own- 
ed for a limited lime by Lewis Bromley, of 
Baltimore, and was to have been free in a 
year'. Mrs. Bromley, her husband being 
dead, sold her for that time, to a man, who 
either changed his name to that of Angt. de 
Nanteul, or sold .her a slave for life to another 
person of that name. He took her to Wash- 
ington, and lodged her in the jail 'for safe 
keeping' til! he shout i call for tier. Nothimi 
had been heard from him. Meanwhile the 
girl had been in the prison more than six 
months, and the keeper assured me thai she 
would soon Lie sold, for her jail fees, as a 
slaoe for life. The w hole affair was- doubt- 
less a mere trick, to evade the law, and make 
her a slave for life. 

"On returning from the prison, the lady 
who had accompanied me, and who had often 
aided the poor outcasts, said that her atten- 
tion was first called to the subject by the 
following incident. Some seven years he- 
fore, a poor colored man came to her door, 
walking on his knees — having lost his legs 
to the knee, and bis arms to the elbow. 
She asked him how it happened. He said h 



(^LETTERS ON FREE MASON RYe 
This is a pamphlet of 100 pages, from th, 
press of T. R. Marvin, Q4 Congress street. 
Boston. It contains the letters of John C 
Spencer, Richard Rnsn, Edward Everett 
and others on the subject of Free Masonrv, 
which should be read and treasured up by 
every lover of justice and humanity. 



; ; OUTLINES OF A NEW SYTEM 
OF.PIIYSIOGOMY illustrated with numer- 
ous engravings; is a pamphlet of nbout 100 
pgaes, by J. S- Redfield, Clinton Hall N. Y. 
price 25 cents. 

This is a very interesting book on Physi- 
ogotny, a very interesting subject, and will no 
doubt be read with satisfaction and profit by 
any who may give it a perusal. 

{^NATIONAL REFORM'ALMANAC. 

This is an excellent document, for sale at 
the office of the Young America, 56 Cl ot- 
bam Street N. Y. 

All land reformers should secure a copy of 
this ahnanac for themselves, and and aid in 
ts circulation— It contains a concise collec- 
t on of tilings very important for all to know. 



{^AMERICAN AND FOREIGN An- 
Li Slavery office is at fil John Street, N. Y., 
where an assortment of Anti-Slavery, Books, 
Pamphlets, Tracts can be had no reasonable 
terms — address William Harned at the of- 
fice.— 



$3»CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
Professor L1EB1G, price 20 cents, published 
by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
York. — The works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themselvs 



CONGREGATIONALISM by Keep, $ 
MODERN PROTESTANT CHURCH 
COURTS UNMASKED, by Geo. Bourne, 
for sale'at tins office. These books should 
be. lead by every friend ol truth. 



BURDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that a 1 ! 
had been put in prison as a runaway, though |i u .,.,„ m . acquainted v> ith the cause and cure 



frozen, and it became necessary to take them 
off to save his life ! Thus was a free Amer- 
can made a cripple for life, for the crime of 
having a eolored skin, and to pay the United 
•ropriety of tampering with such scheming j states fcr the expense of having suspected 



he was free, and the winter was so cold, and of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
his covering so scanty, having scarce a Wan- s0 - m „ \ a luabe light on the subject, 
ket to throw over him, that his limbs were 



Ritcher says, "No man can live piously 6r 
d e righteously without a wife." A wicked 
«'M bachelor says in reply to ihis, "O yes ! 
Buffi rings and severe trials purify and chasten 
he aaart." 



speculators on human misery 

A prudent and well disposed member o 
the ''Soeietv of Friends" once] gave the fol- 
lowing friendl V advice : 

"John," said he, "I hear thou art going to 
be married." 

"Yes," replied John, "I am." 
" Well," rejoined 'he man of drab, "I have 
to give thee, and 
that is, never to many a woman worth more 
than thou art. When I married my wife, I 
was worth just fifty cents, and she was v ortft 
sixty-two cents ; and w hen any difference 
has occurred between us since.flshe lias al- 
ways thrown up the odd shilling." 



Scenes on the Ohio. — Our boat stopped ti 
take in wood. On the shore, amongst i 
crowd, was a remarkably stupid looking fel 

W, wfch his hands in his pockets and his ! one little piece of advice 
under Hp hanging d>>\\ n. A dandy, ripe foi 
a iarane, tipped nods and ujnka all about, 
saying now HI have some fun. I'll frighten 
that green horn." He jumped ashore with a 
drawn bowie-knife, brandishing it in the face 
of the "green un," exclaiming : "Now I'll 
punish you. I have been looking for you ;i 
week." The fellow stared stupidly at the 
assailant. Heevidently had not. sense enough 
to be soared— but as the bowie-knife came 
near his face, one of his huge fists sudden! •. 
vacated his pocket and fell hard and heavy 
between the dand'y eyes and the poor fellow 
was floondering in tin- Ohio. Greening jump- 
fd on board our boa!, put his hands in his 
pockets, ami looked around. " May be," 
said h<', "there's somebody else here that's 
be«n bolting for me a week."— Klephant. 



A Vegetable Waistcoat — "Tom, what kind 
of a waistcoat is that you have on ? " 
"Why it's cloth to he sure." 
"Didn't tt'eome from old Threadneedlcs, 



the tailor ?" 
" Yes." 

" Well then it's a vegetable 
"A what? " 

"A vegetable waistcoat ! 
cabbaae." 



waistcoat." 
rn ide of 



it 



Mr. Popham, when he was speaker of the 
House of Commons, and Ihcy had sat long 
and done in eflt'Ct nothing, coming one day 
to the Queen, she asked him what bad pass- 
ed in the House. "If it please your inaje.;:v : ' 
siad he, "rr{ie:// itven u'rrfs:" 



him to be a slave ! — Libcrt'j AliHanc 



CAPITAL PUN1SHMEN T — A rgumeni 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published bv ihe New 
York Mate Society, for sale at this Office. 



The Law of Love — the immutable law of 
man's moral nature — is the primary and fun- 
damental law upon which all human action 
and human intercourse should be based. 
By acting in accordance with this great Law, 
all the generous and noble sentiments of the 
human hem are brought into exercise, and 
the true interest and happiness of all is 
secured. Eveiy violation of this highest 
and deepest law of our nature, every restric- 
tion of the affections, or limit of .their ex- 
orcise, depraves the hearts of those who 
practice it, as well as tho»c towards w hom it 
is practised! Not to be noble, self-sacrificing 
and genorous, is to be unnatural and false.; 
in conflict with ourselves and nature's high- 
est law. Such a course of action would har- 
den and degrade the best and purest beings. 
The opposite and true course, would elev.ite 
and enoble the most degraded and depraved. 
All disregard and exclusion from sympathy, 
all condemnation and punishment of man by 
man, serves but to extend and perpetuate 
the evil which he attempts thiis blindly with 
evil to correct. Love condemns none, but 
reclaims and elevates all. Until the Law of 
Love, is regarded as the only true principle 
of action — doing by other's as we wou'd have 
others do by us ; thus restoring moral order, 
and removing the cause c>( evil — all ellbrts to 
remove the effects wJII prove abortive, Hiid 
none can reasonably b? expected to be better 
than they are. Nor can any change in out- 
ward circumstances, of itself, produce the 
change of character which is desired. But 
theladoption of universal benevolence, as the 
true and only legitimate principle of action, 
[will. lead naturally and directly to the most 
I happy changn in human character and all 
human nffiiir- 1 , — F.thrarrf Palmer. 



Free Labor Produce. 
R. L. MURRAY, 

No. :>77 Pearl si reel. New York, 

l.y IIOLESALE and Retail dealer in Gro- 
ceries and Dry Goods, which are not 
l he product of Slave Labor. 



"WINDOW GLASS, assorted sizes, for 
TT sale by .1. GRIMES. 

Boonion, Aug. 1'jlh, 1S49. 



Jb'OTlCE ! 

All persons indebted to the estate of Rich- 
ard Kay hart, late of the County of Morris, 
deceased, aie hereby requested to settle the 
same, and all those having claims against 
said estate are notified to present them to the 
subscriber for examination without delay. 

JOHN GRIMES, Administrator. 

Boonion, Aug. lotn, 1841). 



XTELLOW OCHRE, just received and 
for sale on reasonable terms bv 

J. GRIMES. 

Boonton, May 30, 1849. 



BLANKS ! 

1? LANK DEEDS and MORTGAGES 
•"for sale at the office of the Freeman. 



JT 1THARGE — A quantity of ground 
jLA Litliartre just received and for sale by 
J. GRIMES. 

Boonion. Oct. P, 1*19. 







Truth invites full and free Discns£on ; Error 



shrinks from all Investigation. 



Yol. 4. 



Bsonton, December 15, 1849. 



o. 



9 



THE 1YEW JERSEY 

FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor. 
Boonton, -Morris County, New Jersey. 



T E R M S : 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, ob for 
12 numbers 
5 copies to one address for one dollar. 
All communications must be post paid. 

CHRISTIANITY VS. PAUPERISM. 

Tliere would be no pauperism in the world, 
jf men performed their duties to each other. 
Christianity, like every other religion that we 
know of, leeches the brotherhood of the 
human race. In a community of real Chris- 
tians, there could be do such thing as poverty 



spires point every where to heaven) yet men 
oppressfjtheir fellow men, disregard each oth- 
ers welfare, and we have all around us a mass 
-f ignorance, poverty and crime. 

Is this the fault of the leligion, or of those 
who profess to teach it ? W e make no ac- 
cusation; we state facts of World-wide noto- 
riety. H r e appeal to every man's intelligence 
and common sense, whether the. religion of 
the day carries out the iJca of human brother- 
hood as taught and practiced by its founder. 
The idea of justice, common to all religions, 
so far from being practiced upon, is scaerely 
recognized. There has been noma great mis-' 
take. Jesus has been misunderstood, or his 
doetrines are wofully perverted- Christianity, 
as taught by its founder, wa-i the purest of 
creeds and the most benevolent of systems; 
but Christianity as practiced, with some pos- 
sible slight exceptions, is not up to the stan- 
dard of either Moses or Mahomet. Under 
the Mosaic dispensation poverty was un- 



THE ATTRIBUTES OF COD, 
illustrated by astronomy. 
The following; beautiful extract is from an 



tua! perturbation of millions of suns, and 
[dan- ts, and comets, and worlds wilj.ou; 
number, through il e ages li st are past, and 



excellent work en it'ed " The Plane ary and | ll»*«ghoUt ihe tpes which are yet to come ; 
Stellar Worlds," by 0. M. Mitchell, Director' 



A this C;nc anal; Observatory 



not approximately, but w ith perfect and abso- 
lute precision. The universe is in inolio" — 
system rising above system, cluster a! ove 



and misery. The true Christian loves his 

... ' , . , ... • ;w a ,\. known; no man could be deprived of hii 

neighbor as Inmsell ; and it is impossible lor > 



him to live in affiuence, while his fellow- 
creatures are in want. 

The only tiue worship that ean be paid to 
God, is to respect his image in man ; and 
when we permit men to be degraded by pov- 
erty, ignorance and vice, we blaspheme God, 
no matter what our pretensions to piety. 
The only service that men can render to God. 
is to relieve, comfort, and make happy his 
creatures. This is the essence of all religion. 
And without this all talk or pretence of reli- 
l tP on ' s but can * an ^ hypocricy. 

Un icr pretence of religion, people "build 
numerous costly churches, ostensibly for the 
■worship o" God, but really to enable clergy- 
men to show off their eloquence, and ladies 
their cloaks and bonnets. All this capital, 
with its interest, is wasted and lost to the real 
objects of religion. The money expended 
upon the pretence of religion, every year, 
would give us its glorious realities. The 
religion of Christ was to feed the hungry, 
clothe the naked, heal the sick, comfort the 
afflicted. We follow his example by build- 
ing sumptuous churches, paying high salaries 
to preachers, and making a show of fashion- 
able, piety; while all the real dutiea of reli- 
gion, all acts of human brotherhood are 
forgotten. It was just such a pretentious, 
hypocritical, heartless religion as ours, that 
Jesus came to overthrow and reform. 

God would be far bettor worshipped, and 
religion more honored, if every family had a 
comfortable dwelling, and there were not a 
s ngle church ; if proper employment and 
education were found for ail Ihe people, and 
there were not ft Salaried minister. Our wor- 
ship is mere lip service, and while we pretend 
to ndoie God we utterly neglect his com- 
mandments. Our pretended religion is a bar 
to all reform. So long as men are satisfied 
with the present shew of hypocritical formal- 
ity, they wiil neglect the real duties of their 
lives. So long they will not recognize their 
human brotherhood, or love their neighbors 
as themselves. 

Christianity teaches that all men arc breth- 
ren, the children of one Heavenly Father, 
who ought to live together in a loving enjoy- 
ment of the goods of Providence, bearing 
each other's burthens, sustaining and help- 
ing each other. This religion has been 
taught for nearly two thousand years, its 
preachers are scattered ovei the earth, and 
the people are taxed to support them; its 



right to the soil, and the laws secured the 
comfortable support of every citizen. The 
laws of Turkey, based upon the Koran, are a 
better security to social prosperity and jus- 
tice than those of any Christian nation. 
There was never in ancient Israel, nor in 
modern Islam, such a scene of poverty and 
misery as is found in the Christian city of 
New York, to say nothing of the more hor- 
rible spectacles that exist under similar insti- 
tutions in the great capitals of Europe. 

If, then, the religion of Christ be belter 
than that of Moses or Mahomet, it is clear 
that we have not got the genuine article. 
Our Christianity, judged by its fruits, is 
a sham — a pretence — a mumery — a heaven- 
daring hypocrisy; It is not the religion 
taught by Christ and his apdsiles. 

These are hard sayings, but if the pulpit is 
siient, and a hireling priesthood fawns on 
wealth, flatters pride, and grows obsequeous 
to power, the press must speak the truth. — 
New York Sunday Dispatch. 



" We entreat you to be faithful to th 
Truth in dealing with the corrupt parties and 
s?cts which lend their influence to sustain in 
justioc, oppression and crime. The Church 
which sanctions or apologizes for Slavery or 
War, or which neglects or refuses to take 
the side of the oppressed and dswn-trodden, 
is controlled by the spirit of practical infi- 
delity and atheism. The Ministry which is 
zealous for creeds an I forms, but utters no 
efficient testimony against the popular sins of 
the age, is not a Christian hut an infidt ' 
Ministry; and we counsel you, by your rev- 
erence for God and your love for man, to 
lend it no support. Be not deceived by the 
potent wiles, nor awed into submission by 
the anathemas of such a Church and such a 
Ministry. Though the hosts of sect and 
party are encamped on every side, be not 
dismayed nor disheartened, for in the conflict 
with unrighteousness, "one shall chase a 
thousand,and two put ten thousand to flight." 
The advocates and apologists for Sin may 
seek to overwhelm you with the waves of 
popular indignation ; you may be denounced 
as heritics, fanatics and infidels ; but remem- 
ber for your consolation that such has been 
the fate of Reformers in all past ages, and 
that even Jesus of Nazareth, in whom was 
no guile, wa3 charged with blasphemy and 
doomed to suffer an ignominious death. — Con- 
gregational Friend's Address. 



*'lf there is anything which can Ifad |he 
mind upward to the omnipotent Ruler of the 
universe, and give to it an approximate 
knowledge of His incomparable attributes, it 
is to be found in the grandeur and beauty of 
his works. 

If you would know his glory, examine 
the interminable range of suns and systems 
which crowd the Milky" Way. Multiply the 
hundred million of stars which belong to our 
own "inland universe" by the thousand of 
those astral systems that exist in space, with- 
in the range of human vision, and then you 
may form some idea of the infinitude of Ids 
kingdom ; for !o ! these are but parts of his 
ways. Examine the scale on which the 
universe is built. Comprehend, if you can; 
the vast dimensions of out sun. Stretch out- 
ward through his system, from planet to 
planet, and circumscribe the whole within 
the immense circumference of Neptune's or- 
bit. This is but a single unit out of the 
myriads of similar systems. Take the wings 
of light, and flash with impetuous speed, day 
and night, and month and year, till youth 
shall wear a way, and middle age is gone, and 
the utmost limit of human life has been 
attained; count every pulse, and at each throb, 
speed on your way a hundred thousand miles; 
and when a hundred years have rolled by, 
look and behold ! the thronging millions of 
blazing snns are still around you, each separ- 
ated from the other by such a distance that in 
this journey of a century you have only left 
half a score behind you. 

Would you gather some idea of the eternity 
cf God' existence, go to the astronomer and 
bid him lead you in one of his walks through 
space; and as he sweeps outward from ob- 
ject to object, from universe to universe) 
remember that the light from those filmy 
stains on the deep pure blue of heaven, now 
falling on your eye, has been traversing space 
for a million of years. Would you gathei 
some knowledge of the omnipotence of God_ 
weigh the earth on which we dwell, then 
count the millions of its inhabitants that have 
•come and gone for the last si* thousand 
years. Unite their strength into one arm 
and test it:; power in an effort to move this 
earth. It could not stir it a single foot in a 
thousand years; and yet, under the omnipo- 
tent hand of God, not a minute passes that it 
does not fly more than a thousand miles 
But this is a mere atom — the most insig. 
ujficant point among his innumerable worlds 
At his bidding, every planet, and satelite 
and comet, and the sun himself, fly onward 
in their appointed courses. His single arm 
guides the millions of sweeping suns, and 
around his throne circles the fcvast constella 
tion of unnumbered universes. 

Would you comprehend the idea of Ihe 
omniscience of God, remember that the high 
est pinacle cf knowledge reached by the whole 
human race, by the combined efforts of its 
brightest intellects, has but enabled the as- 
tronomer to compute approximately the per- 
turbations of the plane taryJ worlds. He has 
predicted roughly the return of half a score 
! of comets 



cluster, nebula above w bula — alljrriajesticarlyi 
sweeping onward under the guiding provi- 
dence of God, who alone knows the end Ircm 
the beginning, and before w hom all intelli- 
gent beings should bow with reverence, 
humility and awe. 



THE SINEWS OF WAR. 
Money has very properly been termed the 
"sinews of war." It is very certain that 
war could not be carried on very extensively 
without money, in very large amounts. 

Tire friends of peace are beginning to ap- 
preciate the importance of this simple and 
matter-of-fact view of the subject, and are 
directing their efforts towards the prevention 
of loans for warlike purposes. Withhold 
the "sinews of war," and war-makers will 
be powerless. 

It seems that .the emperor of Russia has 
advertised in the London papers for a lean of 
seven millions cf pounds sterling, to meet 
his war expenses. This has called forth a 
letter from Richard Cobdetl, M. P., propos- 
ing that a public meeting should he ini>re<ii- 
ately held in London, " to denounce tho 
attempt to levy upon the earnings of peace- 
ful industry for the means of paying Haynau 
and his Croats for their butcheries in Brescia 
and their atcrocities in Hungary." "■New," 
says he, "is the time for the friends ef peace 
to raise their voices in condemnation and ex- 
posure of the system by which Austria and 
other powers maintain their enormous armies, 
and carry war and destruction, not only into 
their cwn provinces, but) into the territories 
of their neighbors. There is not a friend of 
the oppressed and slandered Magyars or Ital- 
ians, who will not press forward to swell the 
chorus of execration of this audacious pro- 
posal to borrow from tiie European public lh 
money with which to pay the price cf success- 
ful violence and injustice. It is a matter U| on 
which ervery man is called to express his opin- 
ion; for all of us are by the terms of the. 
prospectus, inviied to subscribe for the lean." 

This letter called forth much discussion in 
the British papers, and a great meeting has 
been held in Loudon, in which all loans for 
warlike purposes were denounced, and the 
sentiment was received with enthusiasm. 



"INFIDELITY." 

The following is said to bii an extract from 
a sermon preached by Dr. Patten, a Presbyte- 
rian clergyman of the city of New Y< tk : 

" T.'ie present crisis is one of intense in- 
terest to the true follower of Christ. A ne.'.v 
race of Injide!s jhas arisen ; rot profanci, 
unchaste, immoral, and unprincipled mi 
but evincing a regard fur Cod, for Tjiuth. 
for Humaity, for Morals, and whose com- 
plaint is, that the churches ' are am; 
aqainst God, against Humanity, an . ag i 
sound morals. It is an evil hour when 
delity can marshal its forces with ' ... n 



for its watchword, and with the coflsc 
of the world on its side; while Christ! 
in the hands of those who betray it, 1: t 
hosts to battle for oppression. Jn such a twt-. 
But God has computed the mu- 1 flier, Infidelity must triumph." 



}':<.v.n the Univerca-lum. 
(fcllED NOT THE TEAR OF SOKRO\ 

BY OLIVER P. HATFIELD. 

Shod not the tear of sorrow • 

I ' pi>n the heedless sfrave, 
Nor Ifttsi some future morrow 
Th<|se pour r mains to save. 
Dust unto dust reim nelh, 

.'-'uifls to t!:eir Home repair; 
»If for t'l y (Wend thou yeurneth, 
Look lor him there. 

L^' nit a Irony!)) of sadnes-i 
' Cast oVr thy life its gloom, 
Nor ti^-i-'d the current madness 

That cuiit hath sealed liis doom, 
lb-re svheie few lights are gleaming, 

Oft was he led astray ; 
There all around is beaming 
Eternal clay,. 

Us) fn the z»phyr blowing 

In the soO'hing twilight hour, 
VVI.f*h the spirit world is throwing 

O'er tjce its tiidtU*n power. 
A thought "f the departed 

Hushes ail worldly strife ; 
]t eomes from the pure hearted — 
4 ne inner lue. 



From the Water-Core Journal. 
THE FASHIONABLE LADY'S 
PRAYER. 

"Give this dav our daily bread," 

And pies and calces besides, 
To luad the stomach, pain the head, 

And choke the vita! tides. 
And if too soon a friend decays, 

( )r dies in agony — 
We'll talk of "God's mysterious ways," 

And lay it all to thee. 

Give us, to nlease a morbid taste, 

In spite of pain a<>d death, 
Consumption-strings around the waist, 

Aim- st to stop the breath ; 
Th'-n if infirmity attends 

Otir stinted progeny — • 
In visita'ion foroir sins, 

We'll lay it all to thee. 

Giva us good houses, !ar<re and tall, 

'<"o look the cabins down — 
And servants dbdgiag at <iur call, 

And shaking at our frown ; 
The poor, however worthy they, 

We'll treat quite scornfully— 
Th^n sixpence pav, communion day, 

And settle up with thee. 

We do disdain to toil and sweat, 

Lik" sir's of vulgar blood ! 
Of 'abor give us not a h : t, 

For nbs'sic nor for food ; 
And if for want of exercise, 

We 1 :ck the stamina 
Of iho< > we t/ample and despise— 

We'll lay it all to thee. 

If any curs- we have forgot, 

That on a votarv. 
Fashion let fall, withhold it not, 

Put send it grevious'v ; 
And if too hatfl the millstone light 

For frail hunpafiity — 
We'l 1 never Ida ne ourselves a mite, 

But lay it all to thee. 

Yes, jive us coffee, wine, and tea, 

And hof thin introduce, 
Th-> stomach'* warm bath thrice a day, 

To weaken and reduce ! 
And if, delving nature's lows, 

Dyspeptic we must be — 
We scorn to search for human cause, 

But lay it all to thee. 



THE TRUE CHURCH. 

The following is an ex tract from a discourse 
fle.Hyered in Birmingham, England, by Rev. 
George Dawsoa : 

The present age demands a Church which. 
s!;ail embody and exemplify the true idea o! 
tinman brotherhood and equality. It should 
be a church of the. people, in which every 
man should be worth as [much, &$ aiiy other 
man, if not in acquirements, at least for his 



For the New Jersey Freeman. 
CHRISTIAN EXAMPLE AND 
CHARACTER. 

The following article is found in some of 
o\ir more respectable newspapers. 

"Bishop Doane, of New Jersey, has failed 
for $550,000, and is said to be able to pay 
only a trifling portion of his vast liabilities. 
Most of this money is said to have been 



humanity; in which, however poor and igno- ! s P eDt in building churches and chapels.— 
rant a man might be when he entered, it j The fortune of Mrs. Doane, formerly Mrs. 
would be rembereu that he brought at least i Perkins, of Boston, is not involved in this 
one precious offering to God's altar— it heart | crash. Her income is said to be $12,000 
to love whatever is pure and good, a soul to I P ei ' annum. 

be developed, an intellect to be enlightened; | Now this story, in all its parts, may or 



that he brosght one more worshipper of God, 
and one more lover of man. We want a 
church in which there shall be freedom, 
unite, and Chi istian equality ; where there 
shall not. be the painful contrasts \vc now 
every where see. — here a house over-luxuri- 
ous; abounding in wealth and indolence and 
voluptusus indulgence; and there a hovel, 
poor, dirty, and degraded, with inhabitants to 
correspond. We want a church which will 
care most for those who are least able to care 
for themselves ; a 'good S irciarataii' church, 
dismounting flom its beast of comfort, in order 
to set the. weary, lost and wounded in its 
p'aee, that they may ride to seceour and 
skelter. 

We want a chuerh which shall be so sc- 



mny not be true. It is a newspaper story. 
But suppose it were true ; is Bishop Doane 
a sinner above all men, because he "suffered 
such things"? What if it should be shown 
that a Bishop has as good a right to specu- 
late with other men's money, as any other 
person ? And what, too, if it should be shown 
that hundreds if not thousands of Christian 
men aad women in this country, and even 
Christian ministers, are doing every day, on 
a small scale, what the Bishop of New Jer- 
sey has done on a larger ? 

Although I will not now take up time or 
space to prove either of the assertions to 



curelv based upon the deep foundation of which j re r er? yet as i believe them to be 



truth and right, that it shall not be afraid 



susceptible of proof, in abundance, I shall for 



of scrutiny and investigation. Wc want .. 
church in which it shall not be considered the present take their truth for granted' 
d-ingerous or dishonorable to doubt; fori Now will Mrs. Doane as a partner in 
doubting is an evidence of thought, of desire, trade, or at least as a member with her hus- 
of earnestness. When the disciple Thomas I baud of the house hokl of faith; proceed as 
expressed his doubts, Jesus spoke no harsh L . , . ,, ,. , , , 

... , . i t, i u . i i . 1 1 i • . • fast as she is able to discharge the Bishop's 
words to him, but simply fo'd him to examine j '7 1 

debts; or will she do as multitudes of others 
have done — that is, live sumptuously and 
feed the good Bishop sumptuously on her 
$12,000 a year, and let the debts go ? 

Will Bishop Doane's conscience be satis- 
fied to have it so ? Will he be contented to 
live in splendor, and have the worshippers in 
the churches and cbappels he has built with 
other men's money,' do the same ; or will 
he pay what he can — whether 25 or 50 



imply 

for himself. This is the way the doubter 
should be treated now. We want a church 
*hero earnest seekers! after truth shall be 
treated with due kindness and respect; where 
there is no priest to condemn them if they 
believe not all his creed; where no friends 
will desert them because they find themselves 
obliged to desert a point or two of their earli- 
••[■ opinions; a church where, if a man shiil 
say, 'Scarce as yet do I believe anything,' 
there shall be a more tender regard, a more, 
lively svmpatbjr felt for him, than if the cir- 
cle of his belief were completed, jj 

Men should be enconraged to think freely, 
anl to express with all candor and sincerity 
■ bat they think. But so far from this, every 
kind of means are used to induce them to 
suppress their deepest and^ most important 
convictions, and even to forbear to think for 
themselves at all. Need I point to house- 
holds broken up, to friendships gone, to the 
paltry meanness that takes from small trades- 
men their little dealings, because they dare to 
think" for themselves concerning religious 
loctrines ? I n.-ed not speak of petty perse- 
cution, with all its nuoiberlers forms and 
)ba3 !s. We know that to honestly confess 
iur doubts, is to dperive ourselves of church- 
fellowship. What a rewnrd is here offered 
or deceit and hypocrisy ? 1 have known 
nore difficulties" put in the way' of one who 
righteously doubted than one who unrighte- 
iusIv sinned. Alas ! how many friendships 
>'d and dear, are broken up, and sympathies 
argfl and warm, are embittered and destrov- 
■d, because, forsooth, we cannot all think in 
>very point and particular, as our fathers and 
; eat grand fathers did. 



Cx.orel) Pr.oPE?<on.— Mr. Charles L. 
Reason, an artist of New York, iias heed 
fleeted one of the professors in Central Col- 
lege, at Granville, N. Y., of which Rev. C. 
P. Grosvenor, formerly of Utica, is President. 
He is the first colored man who has been 
elected to a College Professorship in this 
country. A correspondent of the Christian 
GontH'fattter, speaks of bis inau^aral oration 
its being "full of clear comprehensive, phih- 
Mjphi.-.i! thought, cl .thed iji neat and classi- 
cal language. — Utica Gazette." 

At the commencement of Middlebury Col- 
lege on the 25tb ult., the Latin Salutatory 
was delivered by a colored youth, and he 

iuitted himself well. He" subsequently 
appeared upon the stogi and delivered an 
<Jr-t on in English, 



Worldly GuntsTtAxs. — Thern is, (says 
the New York Christian Intelligencer) au 
increasing and alarming lattitude or license 
allowed by a large portion of professing 
Christians of all denominations, to conformity 
vi.'.h the world. It seems as though they were 
absolutely blind to the clear and repeated in- 
junctions of the Savior, to "come out from 
tike world, and be separate." 



Gor.p Woasmp. — The sect of gold wor- 
shippers is as numerous as all the others put 
together. We laugh at the deified onion of 
the ancient Egyptians, and carry our fetish 
of gold, silver, copper, or even paper, in our , , 
pockets all the while. There is more faith | 
in mammon, than in the true God. 



per cent of his debts, ask for aid of those 
who occupy the said churches and chap- 
pels to pay the rest, and then to make up 
the deficit, should there be any, deny himself, 
in various ways, from year to year, till the 
debt is cancelled. 

If Bishop Doane should do all this, and 
should he live ten, fifteen, or twenty years, 
and be thus enabled to extinguish his debts, 
will he not, in this respect, show himself to 
be a man — and what is more, a follower of 
Jesus Christ? For would the Savior, in 
Bishop Doane's circumstances, as above stat- 
ed, do less than to pay his debts to the utter- 
most farthing ? And what the Savior would 
do, in the same circumstances, is not every 
Christian bound to do ? 

But if every Christian, as a Christian, is 
bound to do, in all the circumstances of his 
life — in circumstances of pecuniary embar- 
rassment and failure, among the rest — pre- 
cisely what the Lord Jesus Christ would do 
in the same circumstances, do not multitudes 
of those who profess his name, come sadly- 
short of following his glorious example? 

I have alluded, in the present communica- 
tion, to this trait of human character because 
there arc, m these days, so many failures 5 
and not a few of them by those who mean 
to be on the whole, the disciples of Christ. 
Yet how oflen do they live, after their fash- 
ion, just as extravagantly as before ? Such 
a course of conduct, so well known, merits 
and calls for severe rebuke, from all who 
have reflected on the subject, and properly 



Mutual Dependence. — Ail men are under 
the highest obligation to help each other. — 
From the time that the mother hinds the 
child's head till the moment that some kind 
friend^v/ipes the death damp frorn the brow of 
the dying, we n?ed each other's assistance. 
All therefore, have a right to ask aid of each 
otlicr, and none who have the power of 
granting, refuse without guilt. 



Many families of five persons, in these 
circumstances, continue to pay yearly $200 
for rent, from 200 to 300 for clothes, and 
500 for food and drink, and for other things 
in the same proportion, notwithstanding thei r 
poverty. And all this they seem to think 
necessary and therefore right. They have 
been accustomed to expend a thousand dol- 
lars on themselves every year, and perhap^. 



more ; (some fifteen hundred, or seme two 
thousand,) and though many items of ibis 
expenditure were for what, some lime ago 
they thought luxuries, yet they feel as if they 
could not do without them now, even though 
their creditors should go unpaid. 

This proceedure, however common, I re- 
gard as one of the most wicked frauds, when 
committed by professing Christians, which 
ever disgraced our. country. The frauds of 
those who are swindlers by profession, bear 
no sort of comparison with it. It will stand 
out, in its true colors, in the great day. — 
Would that it might be seen correctly before, 
'tis too late — before it shall have destroyed 
millions of souls, and marred the beauty of 
the Church of Christ. 

A family that has been accustomed to ex- 
pend $1000 a year for eating and drinking^ 
would do welt to reduce this item of expen- 
diture at least one half. They should not 
expend over $500. This is sufficient for 
every purpose of health and enjoyment. — 
And much may be saved in other things, 
though not perhaps in the same proportion. 
Buf $500 a year is quite a saving to the hon- 
est creditors of an honest debtor. It will in 
ten years, extinguish a considerable debt, and 
pay intcrst. It would, with other slender 
means which may be had by most, be suffi- 
cient to free them entirely, and place them on 
a rigi t..-ous basis, and enable them to have a 
pure conscience, as well as clean hands. 

But I may r say more upon this subject on 
a future occasion. A word, only, to the wine,, 
just now. W. A. A. 

West Newton, Mass., May 7, 1849. 



VALUABLE TESTIMONY. 
Mrs. Gove Nichols, who has devoted her- 
life to the study of medicine, in all its 
branches, and who has just published a work 
on water cure, gives the following testimony 
in favor of vegetable diet. She has lost a 
sister and a brother by consumption, and his. 
had frequent attacks of bleeding from the 
lungs herself, but now enjoys good health. — 
She has long been a practitioner of the heal- 
ing art, and speaks from experience. 

It is now nearly eleven years since I havo 
tasted flesh. I attribute trw ready removal 
of my consumptive symptoms, iu a measure, 
to my bland rnd unstiuiulatiag diet. My 
great power of endurance now, L altribulu 
partly to the same cause; and my mental pow- 
ers, I am sure, have been improved by this 
diet; and as farther improvement is very de- 
sirable, I intend to persevere in this mode of 
living. A diet of fruit, vegetables, acd fim- 
naeea, is especially suited io the consump- 
tive. Persons with consumptive tendency', 
should he sparing in the use of animal food, 
and it would be better if they would refig&i 
its use altogether. 

But people seem to think there is nothing 
left in the world to cat, if they give up animal 
food. Upon careful examination they will 
find the world is filled with good things. 

The gn'al errors in diet, however, arc not 
alone in the use of animal food. Made dish- 
es, high seasoned, with admixture of oils, 
are particularly unhealthy. Oily food should 
be especially avo ; ded by children and con- 
sumptives. " Pork is one of the worst forms 
of food in the world, and the lard is even 
more unhealthy than the flesh. Hogs are 
almost always afflicted with scrofula, the 
very word, scrofula, being derived from a 
Greek word that means "swineevil," or mor- 
bid tumor, to which swine are subject. — 
Scrofula is often the basis of consumption. 
Scrofulous swine> flesh and lard are very 
dangerous food. 

If we would preserve our health and that 
of our children, we should first avoid eating 
too much ; second, eating oily food and con- 
diments. Plain, simple food, in which vege- 
tables, fruit, and farinacea predominate, is the 
most conducive to health. As I before re- 
marked, tea and coffee are poisonous, nnd 
should be avoided altogether. Few people 
give their children tea and coflee, even though 
they still indulge themselves in the use of 
thein. They are wise for their .children, if 
not for themselves. 

Thorough mastication of food is important 
to good digestion and good health. Ameri- 
cans bargain for dyspepsia and disease at 
every meal, by half chewing their food, 
And they get what they bargain for. 



THE 



BOONTON, DECEMBER 15, 1849. 



RIGHTS. 

Within a few late years much has been said 
and written about rights. Numerous and 
Jeng'hy have been the discussions on the 
subject, as though it was the most important 
of all matters. And indeed, if not the moat, 
it is one of the most important oi all ques- 
tions, when viewed in its broad and compre- 
hensive aspects, embracing al! beings within 
i;s legitimate boundaries. Judging from what 
has been said and written on this subject, We 
might conclude that no beings except man, 
«ver had or can have any rights. Man in his 
supreme selfishness, has the arrogance to 
presume that he is the only created being 
possessed of rights; and the conduct of his 
•whole life, through all time, has been regu- 
lated and controlled by this narrow, selfish 
and un-God-like view of things. Hence man 
has been continually groping his way in 
•darkness and error, and his life has been one 
of strife and confusion, pain, restlessness and 
anxiety. Now this is a grand and fatal error 
as will be perceived by an? one who will 
take the pains to examine this matter a little 
in retail. It is a high -handed impeachment 
of the justice, the wisdom, and the goodness 
of God, to suppose that he would create and 
give to any being a sensitive existence, a sus- 
ceptibility to pleasure and pain, and not give 
that being rights, as inalienable as he ever gave 
to man. This is not only in strict accordance 
with what is culled the written testimony cf 
God, but it ii in perfect harmony with his un- 
erring testimony throughout a'l nature. — 
Existence implies a right to live, ; the right 
to life, presupposes a right to its enjoyments. 
This is the testimony of the Deity,"as written 
in unerring characters upon every page of 
nature. Every page of nature's great book 
hears the saine testimony on this point, and 
would bo clearly perceived by man. if eman- 
cipated from seciarian bigotry and supersti- 
tion, false teaching, hereditary customs and 
impressions, and the pure moral image of the 
deify restored to his possession. 

This narrow and limited regard for rights, 
has impeded the progress of every benevolent 
effort in ancient or modern times and caused 
<t:iem all to come far short of the grand objects 
for which they were instituted. Under this 
nirange delusion on the suject of rights, the 
benevolence of those most noted for their 
disinterestedness, has been, in a great degree, 
n benevol' iice for "ourselves and ours," and 
has not been broad enough to receive the 
ultimate blessing of a God of universal love- 
The time has come for man to take broader 
nnd deeper ground. He must regard every 
being, having a sensitive existence, as pos- 
sessed of rights, and that man has no author- 
ity to violate these rights. As existence pre- 
supposes a right to life's enjoyments, and as 
this is no more true in relation to man, than it 
is in relation to all inferior animals, tht ir right 
to live and realize the enjoyments of life, is 
as inalienable as that of man, and cannot 
lawfully be taken away by man, unless for- 
feited by sufficient depredation upon the 
rights of others. 

Now it is easily demonstrable that the be- 
nevolent designs and efforts of men to elevate 
humanity, have been shorn oPmeir power, by 
a total disregard of these truths. -In this coun- 
try alone there arc about 30,000 regular 
butchers, to say nothing of the innumerable 
host of innocent bird killers, and other slaugh- 
terers on a smaller scale, all encouraged and 
sustained by the popular philanthropy and 
Christianity of the day. Can wars, strife, or 
human misery of any sort, on a small or large 
$cale, cease., and man become perfect, ami a 



the writhing agonies «u our 
slaughter houses, and other !ife-d( s' roving 
operations? Can a pure and holy God bless 
such a Christianity ? Will efforts based 
upon such selfishness ever accomplish the 
restoration of man to his original s!a,te of 
purity ? Is it not man's duly to labor for 
such a restoration ? 

We have thrown out these few thoughts 
just now, on tl is subject ; if time and op- 
portunity permit, we shall say more anon. 



DIETETIC REFORM, 
There is perhaps no branch 



innumerable 



PHRENOLOGY AND CHARITY. 
"Faiih, hope, and charity : these three 
but the greatest of these is charity." — Paul. 

Charity, the greatest of all Christian vir 
tucs, is insiparably connected with Ph;e 
nology. There can tru'y be no such tiling 
as an uncharitable Phrenologist. A prope,. 
understanding and appreciation of the sci- 
ence of Phrenology will dispose men. to 
deal kindly with the erring, and will change 
all efforts to punish the guilty, into efforts to 
reclaim them. Phrenology properly under- 
stood and regarded would abolishish the 
Gallows, the whipping post, and a'l those in- 
strumentalities which savor fo mnch of re- 
venge, and substitute for them the spirit 
of kindness and love, under which hearty 
would be changed and men made better every 
where. As men progress in the knowledge 
of Phrenology, they will grow in charity. — 
This is the experience of many. Reader, if 
you do not believe this, just read some ot 
the best works on this science, published and 
sold by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nassau street, 
N. Y. If ycu do this we venture to say 
you will be a mors charitable and better man- 



At a great temperance meeting held in 
London, the fol lowing statistics were given : 
The cost of liquors for the Britsh popula- 
tion in the year 1847, was £74,168,623, 
Labor lost through drinking, 64,615,374, 
Other losses, caused thereby, 16,000,000, 



Total, £154,783,097. 
Thus the alcoholic drinks of one. nation for 
a single year, cost about seven hundred millions 
of dollars ! And if the expense of tea ai«°- 
coffee were, added to it, this enoimous sum 
would be swelled to a far greater extent. — 
When will the boasted "lords of creation" 
cease to be such miserable slaves to t'nei 1 ' 
depraved appetites ? 



gr^The House of Assembly of Vermont 
by a vote of 145 to 45 have passed a bill 
exempting thj Homestead from sale under 
execution. 



$5=>If we have not health ourselves, we 
cannot expect to give healthy constitutions to 
our children, any more than we can give 
them wealth out of poverty. > 



#CJ-.The Iowa State Convention of Uni_ 
versalists, recently held, adopted strong and 
sweeping resolutions against War, Capital 
Punishment, Slavery and Intemperance, and 
in favor of universal education. 



#$=The article on "Christian Character and 
Example," in another column, was written 
some time since, but is not out of place now 
It is from the pen of an able wrtter on Health 
whose works are among the most valuable 
ever published. 



CAN'T SUPPORT THEMSELVES. 

A meeting of the Journeymen Mechanics 
of Petersburg, Virginia, held on the 20th 
ult., adopted the following, among other 
resolutions : 

1st. That we regard the teaching of any 
negro any branch of the mechanic arts, as 
prejudicial to the interests and injurious to 
the morals of the laboring white man. 

2d. That we whose names are hereunto 
annexed, will not work for any employer 
who shall take a negro into his employ for 
the purpose of teaching said negro any branch 
of the mechanic arts 



of reform ra 

which man's physicid, moral and intellectual 
well being is more involved than in dietetic 
reform. He is sick or well, wije or foolish 
kind or cru'd, very much according to ah 
sating and drinkieg. Impure food creates 
in impure b dy and impure propensities. — 
Wu may as well suppose that a watch will 
keep correct tin a w ben its wheels are so 
made that they, cannot run together in har- 
mony, as to expect a healthy body, a vigor- 
ous intellect, and \ irtuotis acitons, vhile the 
system is filled with r.lf sorts of crudities. 

This subject opens so vast a field for cur 
thoughts, that we do not find it an easy met- 
ier to decide where to begin. We intend to 
*ay something occasionally on", li e subject, 
but have S:> little time to devote to it that we 
cannot be very methodical. Bui we will be- 
»ifl, and begin by saying we do not believe 
that God ever made on? a-hnd to eat 
another. Reader, do not he startled al this, 
and call us come-oute.r and infidel he a ise 
some of the old Patriarchs eat animal food. 
They did many things that were wicked, ar.d 
kept themselves in trouble all their lives by 
their wrong doing, and therefore their exam- 
ple cannot be Jaw for us. But if you still 
say that we have authority from Cod io eat 
animals, we will go back to the oldest writ, 
ten account of the creation of all animals. — 
Here are the two last verses of the first chap- 
ter of Genesis, which show most conclusive- 
ly what food was best suited to all animals in 
a state of innocence. To suppose that the 
fruits of the earth are not the best for all ani- 
mals, is preferring grave charges against the 
Creator. 

"And God said, behold I have given you 
every herb bearing seed, which is upon the 
face of all the earth, and every tree in which 
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it 
shall be for meat. 

And to every beast of the earth, and to 
every fowl of the air, and to every thing 
that creepcth upon the earth, wherin there 
life, I have given every green herb for meat; 
and it was so." 

After declaring what food should he eaten 
by man and all other auimals, the whole is 
pronounced "very good," that is as it si-odd 
be ; and we have r.o evidence that man ever 
slaughtered animals to eat until after the 
deluge. But some will ask did not God make 
lions, timers and other beasts of prey ? We 
answer, they have either grown up since the 
first creation, or have like man become ex- 
ceedingly depraved and lost their first inno- 
cence ; for the oldest written account gives 
no room for presuming that ferocious, flesh" 
eating animals formed a part of the original 
creation. The whole history of man and oth- 
er animals proves that all animals deteriorate 
physically, morally and intellectually, under, 
a flesh diet. Flesh rating animals are fero- 
cious and cruel every where, while herbifer- 
ous animals are land and inoffensive. Where 
can you find among the fiesh eating animals 
the physical and mental strength and the 
longevity of the elephant ? How can we 
so misconstrue the testimony cf tb.e great 
book of nature, all the pages of which, like 
the Mosaic account of the creation, directs 
man to the rich products of the earth for 
his sustenance. 

In further proof of this position we give 
the following testimony of Dr. Dick, author 
of the Philosphy of Religion, which weselect 
from Dr. Alcott's work on Vegetable Diet : 

"To take the life of any sensitive being, 
and to feed on its flesh, appears incompatible 
with a state of innocence, and therefore no 
such grant was given to Adam in paradise, 
nor to the antc-deluvians. It appears to be a 
grant suited only to the degraded state of man 
after the deluge; and it i-; probable, that as 
he advances in the scale of moral perfection, 
the use of animals for food will be laid aside, 
and he will return again to the productions of 
the vegetable kingdom, as the original food 
of man — as that which is best suited to the 
rank of rational and moral intelligence, and 
most favorable to health and longevity." 
We shall continue our testimony on this point. 



the giUE&mm' wvrm 

Th:3 :s the title of a quarto monthlv i aper 
of eight page*,, rr-scfd by Mfs. M-^aret 
Bailey, W%>ninglon, District of Columhi* 
commencing oji th« first of Nov., dev. ted t.» 
Freedom, Peac*, Temperance-, Natural His- 
tory, Se ;nery ( , Sketches of Travel, Lc. Mr-. 
Baihy is to be Editor, T. S. Aitbur, Mrs; 
Sourhworlh and ethers, contributors, It v. ill 
doubtless be an excellent paper, and we trust', 
will be liberally patroi iz d. 

Terms are 50 cents a single copy, 5 copies 
for $2 CO. 



EXPERIENCE IN WATER CURE. ' 
This is the title of a pamphlet of 100 pages, 
by Mrs. Gove "Nichols, published by Fowl- 
ers & Wells 131 Nassu street, N. Y. 

Mrs. Nichols, from tong experience and 
extensire kKowledge of Physiology, the wanta 
of the human system in health and disease, 
is eminently qualified to wri'e such a booh. 
It contains many very valuable things. 

A SYSTEM OF VEGETABLE DIET, 
r.s sanctioned by Medical Men and by Expe- 
rience in all ages, including Vegetable Cook- 
ery, by Dr Wm. A. Alcott. Published and 
for sale by Fowlers & Weiis, 131 Nassau st. 
N. Y. This is one of the most important 
books ever published. We cannot set; Low 
any honest, 1 ruth-loving man or woman can 
read it and hesitate between the pure produc- 
tions of the earth and the fruits of the s'sugh- 
ter house. No person can read it without 
benefit. 

£>THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOG- 
ICAL JOURNAL. — This valuable Journal 
is published by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nas- 
sau street, N. Y., at one dollar a Yeas- 
monthly. It should be read by all in favor 
of intellectual progress. The No. for D< com- 
ber contains as usual a variety of matter bi>ti» 
interesting and entertainting. The Journal 
is never read without benefit bv any w ho arc 
desirous of intellectual advancement. 

LIBERTY PARTY PAPER. — This is 
the organ of that branch of the Liberty piirtv 
called the Liberty League, published by John 
Thomas, Syracuse, N. Y. at £2 a year. It is- 
an excellent paper, and contains many thing; 
that all people should know, particularly the 
poor and landless. 

{^ALMANACS FOR 1850. 
The Phrenological Ahnananc for 1850 i* 
published and for saie by Fowlers & Wells, 
131 Nassau street, N. Y. It contains thrt 
likenesses of Wiilism C. Bryant, Benjamin 
Franklin, Hiram Powers, Louis Napoleon, 
Daniel Boone, Margaret Prior and others,, 
with interesting sketches of each, and much 
other matter. It will do doubt have a wide 
circulation. 

AISO THE WATEP Cl'RE ALMANAC for 1850, 

by the same publishers, Fowlers &. Wf'ils, 
131 Nassau street. It contains directions for 
the various uses of water, an article on 
Anatomy and Physiology, another on the 
Teeth, w iih manv other articles, altogether 
an excellent article for circulation. 

THE LIBERTY ALMANAC For 1850, 
is now published and ready for sale by Wm. 
Earned, 61 John street, N. Y. It contains 
an abstract view of slavery in all its bear- 
ings, political, moral -ind religious, the true 
remedy pointed out, By Wm. Goodeil, whose 
name is a sufficient recommendation to every 
person knowing the vigor cf his mind as a 
writer. Wo wish it an extensive circulation. 
Price 5 cents single, 40 cents a dozen, <£2.50 
per 100, $20 per 1000. 



U1SCUSSKM. 

This evening, (Frida:/,) at the house of 
J. Grimes. Subject, Woman's Rights and 
Duties. Ladiesvand Gentlemen are cesgeclr- 
fttfly invited to attend. 

D:c. 14, 1843. 



Eternal justice. 

EV CIIABLLS MACK AV. 

The man 13 thought a kn lve or fool, 

Or higot, plotting crime, 
Win) for the advancement of "bis kind, 

Is » is' r t!ia'> his time. 
Fur him the h'-mloelc shall distil ! 

For him the axe be bared ; 
For hilt) the gibbet shall be- built; 

F ir him the stal<e prepared : * 
Him shall the scorn and laugh of men 

Pmsu«'!with deadly ai:n ; 
And malice, envy, spite, arid lies, 

Shall desecrate his name. 
Bii' truth shall conquor at the last, 

For round and round we run, 
And ever the rightfcomes 'uppermost, 

And ever is justice done. 

Fence l« thy soul old Socrates, 

Cheerily to and fro, 
Trust to the impulse of thy soul 

And f?t the poison flow.' 
They, may shatter to enrth the lamp of clay 

That holds a light divine, 
But they cannot quench t^e fire of thought 

By any such deadly wine ; 
Th'>y cannot blot thy spoken words 

From the memory of m n, 
By all the poison ever was brewed 

S nee timojits course*began. 
To-day abhorred ; to-morrow adored, 

So roui'd and round we run, 
Ami ever the trulhJcomcs uppermost, 

And ever is' justice done. 

Pl>d in <hv cave, gray^Anchorite'; 

Be wiserjhan thy peers ; 
Augment the range of human power, 

And trust the comings-ears. 
They call thee wizard, and monk accursed, 

And load thee with dispraise: 
Thou wert born five hundred years too,soon 

For lh" comfort of thy days ; 
But n>t too soon for human kind ; 

Time hath reward in store ; 
And the demons of our sires bec«mo 

Thr- <iaints that we adore. 
The blind can see, the slave is lord ; 

so round and round we run ; 
And ever the wrong is proved to be wrong. 

Aud ever is justice done. 

Keep Galileo, to thy thought, 

And nerve thy soul to b>'ar ; 
They may gloat o'er the senseless wenis they 

From the panjs of thy despair , [wring 
They may veil their eyes, but they canot hide 

The sun's meridian glow ; 
And the heel of a pries', may tread thee down. 

And a tyrant work thee wo ; 
But never a truth has b en destroyed ; 

They mav curse it and call it crime; 
Pervert and betray, or slander and slay 

Its teachers for a time : 
But the sunshine aye shall light the sky, 

As roun' 1 and r">ind we run ; 
And the truth shall ove r come uppermost. 

And justice shall be done. 

An I live there r.ov such men as these — 

With thoughts like the great of old ? 
Many have died in their misery, 

And left then- thought unto d ; 
And many live and are ranked as mad, 

And are placed in th j cold world's ban. 
For sending their bright far-seeing souls 

Three centuries in the van. 
They toil in penury and griff, 

Unknown, if not maligned ; 
For'orn, forlorn, bearing the scorn 

Of the meanest of mankind. 
Bui yet the world goes round and round, 

And thejgertial senses run, 
And ever the truth comes uppermost, 

And ever is justice done. 



V USEFULNESS. 
It cannot b* the design of Him who crea- 
ted all thiol's for a wise end, that any human 
oeing should merely fill a place in the world 
without b'ei:>g of service lo himself and his 
fellow creatures. God, in giving us the va- 
• ious faculties with which we are endowed, 
has evidently designed us to be useful. It is 
in usefulness that we find hpppiuess. Out- 
nature demands activity, and our highest re- 
ward is the consciousness of being of use 
and service to (hose around us. 



A PiCTU 



OF CIVILIZATION. 



Freedom of IxQuinv.— Let not the free- 
dom of in miry be shackled. If it multiplies 
contentions among the wise and virtuous, it 
exfcdses the charity of thoss who contend. 
If it stakes, for a time, the belief that is 
rested only upon prejudice, it finally settles 
it on the broader and more solid b'sis 0 f 
conviction. 



AMERICA. 
" The land rf, the Free and home of the Brave.''' 
The bruised and burden: d of every clime 
have heard of America as the laud of the free. 
The wan and wretched victim of capricious 
tyranny, ironed to the floor of eastern dun- 
geons, has heard of America, and lifted' his 
shackled hands to God in prayer, for one 
draught of that country's air, which whoever 
breathes, is free. The gray headed exile, 
banished from his native land, his Polish 
home, to the far, frozen solitudes of Siberian 
wastes, has heard of America, and while, by 
the sickly light of the pale moon, he waded 
back to his dreary shelter beneath the shape- 
less drifts — he has sighed for the pinions 01 
the swift winged dove, to bear him to our 
shores, beyond the reach of rhe tyrant's arm. 
The oppressed of every name and nation 
have heard of America, as a kind of heaven, 
lying beyond tne jurisdiction of despotism 
where the wicked cease from troubling, and 
every yoke is broken, and the captive is free. 
But these have only heard the melody of its 
jubilees. They never listened to the hall 
•mothered wailings of despair which God 
hears night aud day ascending to his throne 
from human beings, bought, beat and bound, 
;n the capital of this boasting nation. They 
nevvr saw the shambles under the shade of 
fjfur great Temple of Liberty, where human 
souis and immortal destinies are bartered for 
the merest merchandize of the earth. They 
never heard the suppressed moaning of the 
little child, bought ia its mother's arms, and 
torn forever from h^r embrace. They never 
witnessed the father's agony, as ho held out 
his mauacled hands to eay a broken farewell 
:.o ii ts children as they were led awsy to 
»ime distant unknown scene of bondage. 
They never fathomed the despair of the 
mother's heart, when her iafe. weaned infant 
was knocked cjf by the sheri'TV hammer to 
some stranger, who tore it from her arms. 
They never witnessed the unavailing an- 
guish of that moment, when the strong ties 
interwoven with the fibres of every human 
Vart Tsere torn asunder by the sor.s of those 
who fought and fell for freedom. They 
never saw .human nature, like a defenceless, 
unmurmering lamb, -bleed on the very steps 
of the eapitol, white the appointed champions 
of liberty were speaking long and loud of the 
sacre.dness of human rights. They never 
witnessed the unavilhfg night-ecenes of this 
rnodern Aceldama, where, for years of dis- 
graceful history, Man has been nailed to the 
accursed tree of slavery, under the very 
iropping-s of our great sanctuary of Liberty: 
inder the Stabile of that goddess, which like 
\ shameless harlot disguised in the spotless 
vestments of virtue, dares stand upon the 
-linacle of the Temple which our father's 
built, find lift her brazen, unblushing face to 
heaven, and say — All mlx /rf. ; rf,f. and 

EQUAL. E. Bl'RRITT. 



LIBERATION OF FAIRBANKS. 

A correspondent of the New York Tri- 
bune, communicating the death of Chester 
Fairbanks, at Frankiort, Ky.,on the 7th ult., 
of cholera, mays : 

"He left his residence in Genesee, Allega- 
ny county, N. Y. early in the spring, to se- 
cure, if possible, the liberation of lu> son, 
t'nlvin Fairbanks, from the Penitentiary, 
.. here he had been confined four and a half 
years, on tiro chirge of abducting slaves, in 
connection with Miss Delia Webster. The 
friends of freedom will rejoice to learn that 
the untiring efforts of the aged father for the 
liberation of his son, have been successful. 
Gov. Crittenden agreed' to pardon him on 
the condition that certain prominent men in 
Lexington should unite in a petition for his 
liberation. The day before ids death the 
anxious and devoted father rr-turned with the. 
requisite names, with the fullest confidence 
that in the month of August he would wit- 
ness the liberation of" 'his son. His great 
anxiety and untiring labors, together with 
exposure in travelling, made him an caiy 
prey to pestilence, lie died among strangers, 
a victim to the insatiable, cruel demands of 
s'averv." 



lie is an infidel, who lias no faith 
in the progressive improvement of 
humanity ; while he who has such 
faith, is culpable if he neglects any 
means which m3y tend to human 
elevation and happiness. 

Under providence, the human 
race must work out its own desti- 
ny, and if we succeed in opening 
the eyes of any to the evils sf soci- 
ety, we shall have done something 
to awaken the sense of justice 
which will lead men to seek for a 
remedy. Every picture of society 
as it is, has its uses. It matters 
not how abhorrent the spectacle, 
so it is truthful, It may offend our 
taste, it may shock our sensibilities, 
but. though we may shudder at the 
sight, humanity forbids that we 
should shun ii. We must look at 
the condition of our brethren, for 
their sufferings are our own. They 
are a part of humanity, children of 
the same family, and partakers oi 
the same destiny. Jt is morally 
impossible that we can be happy 
while they are miserable. The lies 
of sympathy bind us all together. 

The Lontlon Herald, a paper of 
no radical or visionary character, 
gives the following description of 
the condition of a portion of our 
human race, in London. 

" The great mass of the people 
have no homes. Thousands and 
tens of thousands of our children 
have no other education, no other 
religion than that of the pavement. 
The hard flag stones are their text 
books; the Jbul gutter is their pi- 
erian spring. They lisp blasphemy 
and obscenity : they take God's 
name in vain before they know the 
meaning of the words they uiter. 
Savages, in the midst of civiliza- 
tion, they are more irreclaimable 
than the savages of the wild and 
the desert. It is the want of a 
home that has made them so. — 
They are hardened, because from 
their very infancy they have been 
environed by indurating circum 
stances. Within the softening in- 
fluences of domest icity it has never 
been theirs to abide. They have 
been turned adrift when scarcely 
able to walk unaided. And so 
commences that out-of-doors edu- 
cation, which fills our streets with 
profligate men and women." 

Such is a graphic and a very 
truthful description of one of the 
features of English civilization, of 
which ours is the ofi*-sho<yt. Such 
is the result of institutions which 
we admire and imitate; and such 
are the results that we also are be- 
ginning to cxperierce. 

The streets and gutters of New- 
York have pupils as well as those 
of London, and here, as well as 
there, are seen the foul traits of a 
civilization, which has been weigh- 
ed in the balance of experience, 
and found wanting. — Universe. 



#3 LETTERS ON FREE MASONRY, 
This is a pamphlet of 100 pages, from the 
press of T. II. .Marvin, 2-1 Congress street. 
Boston. It contains the letters ol John C 
Spencer, Richard Rush, Edward Everett 
and others on the subject of Free Masonry, 
which sbotild be read and treasured up by 
every lover of justice arid humanity. 



(^OUTLINES OF A NEW SYTEM 
OF PHVTSIOGOMY illustrated with numer- 
ous engravings: is a pamphlet of about 100 
pgaes, by J. S- Redfield, Clinton Hall N. Y. 
price 2b cents. 

This is a very interesting book on Physi- 
ogorny, a very interesting subject, and will no 
doubt be read with satisfaction and profit by 
any who may give it a perusal. 



A Smile. — W-bo can tell the val- 
ue of a smile 1 It is beyond price 
to the erring, the sad and cheerless, 
the forsaken. It disarms malice, 
subdues temper, turns hatred to 
love, and revenge to kindness. — 
It adds a charm to beauty, and 
decorates and beautifies the face 
of the deformed. 



^AMERICAN AND FOREIGN An- 
ti Slavery oliice. is at 61 John Street, N, Y., 
where an assortment of Anti-Slavery, Bonks, 
Pamphlets, Tracts can be had no reasonable 
ierins — address William Earned at the of- 



£gr-CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture ami Commerce, by 
Professor LlfcBHj, price 20 cents, published 
oy Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau St. N. 
Fork. — Tne works of Professor Liebig speak 
for themseivs 



BUR DELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this Office, price twelve and a half 
cents. h is o# great importance tnat afl 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuahe light on the subject. 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. — Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published bv the New- 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 

Free Labor Produce. 
R. JL. MURRAY, 

No. 377 Fear) street New York, 

"WSTHOLESAjiE and Retail dealer in Gro- 
ceries, and Dry (roods, which are not 
the product of Slave Labor. 



"Yy iN UOV7 GLASS, assorted sizes, 
"sale by J. GRIMES 

Boonton", Aug. 15th, 1843. 



for 



All persons indebted to the estate of Rich- 
ard Kayhart. late of the County of Morris, 
deceased, are hereby requested to settle the 
same, and all those having claims agaittst 
f>aid estate are notified to prcser:! them toihe 
subscriber for examination without delay. 

JOHN GRIMES, Administrator. 

Boonion, Aug. 15tn, 18-49. 



VELLOW OCHRE, just received aud 
for sale on reasonable terms bv 

J. GRIMES. 

CooDton, May DO, 1S40. • 



BLANKS ! 

J1LANK DEEDS and . MORTGAGES 
lor aaie at the ottce of the Freeman. 



THARGE — A quantity of ground 
Litharge just received aud forfeits by 
J. GklMES. 
Boonton, Get. S, 1*49. 



Stoves ! Stoves ! 

A LL who are in want of Stoves or any 
thimj in the Tin, Copper or i>licet-Iron 
line, will do well to call on 

WILLIAM JL DOUGLASS, 

who has opened his business in the building 
corner of Main and Church street, Boonton. 

He is in readiness fur all kinds of Jobbing 
connected with his business. 



♦ BUUNLNG FLUID. 

rj^HE subscriber having made arrangements 
lor proem hi.", lVesh Fuming iluid, is 
ready to accommodate all those who use it, 
on reasonable terms. J. GRIMES. 

Boonton, Dec. 1st, 184a. 



I 




H 1 B i 
11 j B 




Truth invites full and free Discusson ; Error shrinks from all Investigation. 



Vol. 4. 

the 1sew jersey 
FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor 
Eoonton, Morris County, New Jersey. 

> TER M S : 
Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 



Boonton, January 30, 1850. 



No. 3. 



having a p -pulation of 20,000, lost by chol- 
era, in about thirty days, no less than 4,310, 
being nearly one fourth of the entire popu 



A BACK BONE LECTURE. 
Polititions and otheWoafers who filch thei 
living out of the hands of honest industry, 



lation. 



l ly uuc lvmi"' ~- i i o , ill 

With reference to the habits of 0 f:en call farmers, mechanics and laborers 



12 numbers 
5 copies to one address for on 



dollar. 

AH communications must be post paid. 



TOBACCO. 
The following extrac s are from an Ad- 
dress, delivered some time since, nefore the 
Ontario iMe iital Society, by Dr. Barnes, of 
Geneva. They arc highly deserving the at- 
tention of the lovers of the filthy weed. 
We find the Address in tlie Syracuse '-Liber- 
ty Parly rape;-." 

"If one drop cf the distilled oil of tobacco 
as ascertained by Dr. Franklin, will destroy 
the life of a cat in five minutes, When applied 
to the tongue; and two drops the life of a 
dog ; it Hie blight introduction into the tip of 
th s aoiSe of a mouse of a small needle previ- 
ously touched with a particle of the oil of 
tobacco, will destroy life W from three to six 
mitjutes, what fears ought we to entertain of 
*ts use in the human family ? 

Orrila, on the subject of poisons, says that 
tobacco, when applied' to sensitive surfaces 
of considerable extent, even in a form some- 
what dilute, often produces the most serious 
effects. The tea of tobacco has b*>en known 
to destroy the life of a horse when forced 
into his stomach to relieve indisposition; an 
instance of which came und^r my own ob- 
servation, the horse living only thirty min- 
utes after the introduction of the decoction' 
and when used as a wash to destroy vermin 
upon domestic animals, it has been known to 
kilfthe animals themselves. A woman ap- 
plied an ointment prepared with th» powder 
of tobacco, to the heads of three children, for 
a disease of the scalp. They were immedi- 
ately prostrated with diziness, vomiting, 
faintness and convulsions. A distinguished 
gentleman in France came to his death from 
having taken a glass of wine with which 
some snuff had been mixed. 

I knew a child to lose its life in thirty 
minutes from art injection of a few grains of 
taboeco in water, administered for releiving 
colic, by an injudicious nurse. A father de- 
stroyed the .life of his little son, by applying 
some tobacco-spittle upon an eruption on 
• the head. A mother nearly destroyed the 
life of her daughter-, five years old, by rub- 
ing tobacco-juice upon a ringworm about the 
root of the- nose. It was an hour before 
the child was able to speak; and from being 
a healthy, robust child, she was for ten years 
afterwards subject to fainting-fits, and was 
1 very feeble and sickly. 

In Havana, in 1S33, containing a popula- 
tion of about 120,000, the cholera carried off 
16,000 ; and in Matanzas, where the use of 
tobacco is universal, containing ^population 
of about 12,000, it is stated that 1500 died. 
In the former city, we are told by Dr. Abbot, 
in his letters from Cuba, that in 1S29, it was 
ascertained that there was an average con- 
sumption of $10,000 worth of cigars each 
day! Dr. Moore, who in 1S33, resided in 
Mexico, stales that the city of Campeachy, 



the people there, the Doctor says, that 
'Every body smokes cigars that he never 
saw an exception among the natives ; and 
that it was by no means uncommon to see 
children at two years cf age learning to 
smoke. Now, notwithstanding the general 
healthiness of those countries, I have no fear 
that medical men who have investigated the 
subject, wiil deny that the improper use of 
tobacco laid the foundation for the greater 
pari of tSw astonishing mortality ; for what* 
! ever tends m weaken the powers of the ner- 
vous system, predisposes it to be operated 
upon by the causes of this disease. 

I said, id almdst the outset of my remarks, 
that tobacco was doing more injury to the 
generW health of mankind than distilled 
sVirils. Now, if I have established the fac' 
convincingly, as I trust I have, that the use 
of tobacco is injurious to the human system, 
I will endeavor also to show that the enor 
mous quantities of this poisonons drug used 
in the world, constitutes a sufficient and tena- 
ble ground for the belief above expressed. 

The sum paid every year by the consum 
crs of this quantity of tobacco has* been 
computed at $20,000,000, but this is unques 
tionably far below the truth. It is estimated 
that in the city of New York alone, the an- 
nual consumption of cigars amounts to more 
than 200,000 dollars. The Rev. O. Fowler, 
from considerable attention to the statistics 
of tobacco consumption in theUnited States, 
estimates the annual cost at $10,000,000; 
time lost by the use of it $12,000,000; 
pauper tax which it occasions $3,000,000. 
In the American Almanac we find according 
to the Commercial Advertiser, that 100,000 
persons in the city of New York are supposed 
to be smokers, and the average cost to each 
smoker, computed at 10 cents a day, amounts 
in each year to the enormous sum of $3, 
650,000. In 1834, the consumption cf to- 
bacco in the United Sfates, was estimated by 
Mv. Hunt, Editor cf the Merchant's Maga- 
zine, at $20,000,000. 

Some pains have been taken to ascertain 
the amount of saliva discharged while chew- 
ing or smoking a given quantity of tobacco. 
At a moderate computation, not leas than 
half a pint is discharged in the use of every 
two ounces of tobacco; and in many cases 
double that quantity. Now, as medical men, 
can we reconcile ourselves to the belief ib.tS 
this is done without the sacrifice of the health 
of our fellow men ? Here is saliva enough 
to float the whole American Navy ! And we 
know that this fluid was designed by nature 
to perform a most important service. in the 
process of digestion, and that it cannot be 
dispensed wilh,but at the expense of health. 
And can the medical Profession look with in- 
difference upon this waste of health and 
wealth ? " 



the back bone of the nation/ They do this, 
probably, by way of flattery. They know 
that if' they can tickle the pride or vanity of 
the workefte, they can use them as they please; 
ma ke just such tools of them as they need' 
to support. them in idleness. But there is 
more truth in the expression than the work- 
ers are aware of. They are indeed the back- 
bone of the nation, and the backbone of no 
poor old donkey ever was loaded heavier, or 
more abused th»n this same back bone of the 
nation ever has been, and ever will be, till it 
has spirit enough to cast off its riders. Yes, 
workers, you .are the back bone of the nation. 
The politicians, lawyers, merchants, specu- 
lators, priests, and other loafers, will not 
allow vou to be anything but backbone, to 
carry* them and their idle families and bag- 
gnge through the world on soft cusheons 
They wont allow you to be the head, no. 
eye "nor ear of the nation; nothing but back 
bone; and the worst of it all is. you have 
been taught from infancy to aliow these jock- 
ies to bridle, whip and spur you as they 
please; yea, you have even chosen them for 
riders and paid them for the privilege of 
being riden. 

Who clears up the wilderness and changes 
it to frmtful fields ? Why , the workers to be 
sure. And who reaps the profits of his labor ! 
The drones, land-monopolists, speculators 
and other idlers. Who cultivates the soil ? 
The workers. And who live on the firstlings 
of the flock, and the first fruits oj all they 
produce? Thedror.es. Who build the mills, 
cut, manufacture, and get the lumbet to 
market? The workers. And who reap all 
the profits on both labor and lumber ? Why, 
capitalisis, land-monopolists, speculators, and 
those who never put their hands to labor, 
nor their heads nor hearts to anything bu l 
their own selfish interests. Who build all 
the houses ? The workers. The workers. 
And who occupy the best of them 1 The 
drones In short, who perform all the labor, 
produce all that is produced, earn every far- 
ming that is paid for taxes, and support the 
whole nation ? The workers, the back bone 



AN EXECUTION. 
A Rockingham, N. C. correspondent of 
the Fayetteville Observer, gives the follow- 
ing account of the execution of a man named 
Robert Hikheth, at that place, |B the 2-itU 
of September 1849. 

The axe glitters, the trap-door falls, and 
kildreth swings by the neck. For half tt 
minute he remains motionless. Is he dead ? 
Can his own weight, without falling one inch, 
have broken his neck ? No! Poor fellow, 
he expected one pang, and that his last ; but 
the fatality which often leads sheriffs to gross 
negligence in executing the law, must cost 
him now a world of woe. With a convul- 
sive effort he reaches the platform, arAtands 
again on earth alive. The cap ha« fallen 
from his face. The blood was ahead »fast 
rushing upwards. But his large and muscu- 
lar neck prevented the rope from tightening. 
Even then his meekness did not leave him. 
He spoke without complaint, in a clear voice, 
that was heard with awe by every car — 
"Come and fix the rope ! It won't choke 
me to death !" The sheriff did go to him. 
First with an axe, then with a piece of scant- 
ling, he endeavored to knock away the boards. 
Athwt he pushed Hildrtth's feet from the ' 
scaffold, and hung him, inefficiently, a second 
time. The poor feliow made no fur'.her ef- 
fort to recover himself Finding that he was 
hung in a way which produced the most ex- 
cruciating, because gradual suffocaliou. with 
-he blood slowly collecting on the brainy 
through a circulation only partially impeded! 
the unfortunate man, compelled by the pangs 
which momentarily grew greater, drew up 
his legs as high as possible, then, with all his- 
force,°severai times, at intervals of a minute, 
he did the same again. Then his struggles 
ceased; his own executioner, he become un- 
conscious of pain. The scene at Rocking- 
ham, or something equally shocking and 
abominable, is of frequent occurrence. It is 
witnessed, almost wfchout exception, when 
ever capital punishment is inflicted in the 
State of North Carolina. 



bears the whole bun 



And who possess 



TheJLaws of Health. — In the regimen 
which prize fighters submitwmselves to, we 
may see the secret of health and strength. 
It is to be strictly temperate in all things, to 
avoid all debilitating stimulants, such as al- 
coholic drinks, tea and coffee, tobacco, &d 
to rise early, to takt an abundance of exer- 
cise in the open air, to bathe often, and ab- 
stain from all licentious practices. 



and enjoy the moat and the best of everything 
that the workers produce ? Why, the drones. 
And how do the drones manwge to get the 
bast of everything without labor ? Ey their 
craft; by keeping the workers in ignorance; 
by keeping up a false state of socity; by 
supporting a bad system of government; by 
robbing men of their right to the soil; 
forcing them into competition with each 
other, and into slavery to capital. 

There is a remedy for all this injustice. 
What is the remedy ? Let the workers 
di«oive their connection with the drones, pu t 
them all out of office,. and let them work or 
beg honestly. Let the workers manage their 
own affairs, make and administer their own 
laws, give all their right to the soil, and thus 
release them from slavery to capital. Let 
them remember that they compose the 
whole body of the nation, ahd that the 
drones are, at most, nothing but the tail; 
let them act on this principle, instead of 
consenting to be only the back bone, to hear 
all the burdens, end prosperity will attend 
thetn —I'laivfidd Gazelle . 



Excellencies of Kn'owleoge — There are 
in knowledge these two excellences: first, r 
that it offers to every man, the most selfish • 
and the most exalted, his peculiar induce- 
ment to good. It says to the former, 'Serve 
mankind; and you serve yourself;' to the lat- 
ter, 'In choosing the best means to secure . 
your own happiness, you will have the sub- 
lime inducemenFof promoting the happiness 
of mankind.' The second excellence of 
knowledge is, that even lh#sellish man, when 
he has once begun to love virtue from little 
footiyes, loses the motive as he increases the: 
love, and at last worships the Deity, where' 
before he only admired the gold upon the 
altar. — Bulvcer. 



Where they leakn it.— "Eub," scream- 
ed a little bright-eyed girl under six years of 
age, to her younger, brother,, "you good for 
nothing, dirty little scamp, you tarnal imp of 
a child, come right into r the house this min- 
ute, or I'll spank you till the skin comes off!" 

"Why, Angelina, what do you mean; 
where do you learn such talk ?" exlaimed 
the astonished mother, in a wondering tone, as 
she stood on the steps curtisying to a friend. 

"Why? mother, you see we are plar'mg, 
and he's my little boy, and I'm scolding him. 
just as you did me this morning, that's ail." 



;l pui t C 



vteng r-c«-n» v h< Id iu-Gias- 



Scot hiixi, » speech "as made by George 
(ipsl^M' fav;ar of i^rencbmen 

Moras-, •>? v hich the I'vliovvwy; i*> a.'i 



ant a Sftorough froklon ar.u cx- 
f'ftirgajj^ii of the Civil L<st — leaving the mOii- 
Lrch, $ VOU pfea'si — ut g&bwing n-> net iless 
I.-! mi y i" t.mse g'ittefing, painted bu&t< rdies, j; 



e 

i,»iey inay 'Li ■ i |d and clothed at the public 
i-vp "'.se; destitute ot> the excuse of 'he pau- 
j) r Ki hie! u ii;:id- las-iisjse, wisu.se i. l,;uess is 
o>m; uls i v, whose u|i a.e is i.js misfortune, 
pad who^e dependence i.i jnyoliinlaTy n fid 
irks ><n<; y.m wan| a refrtrrn in rh 5 Pension 
I. j« with the Dn'<e- <f Marlborm-gh, win. 
Bi'aws f ) 1 r thousand poun Is sterling a year 
i. .in the Post Office, because another Duke 
0: Mar-lh »roii£->, 140 » ears ago, was forced 
! a c-^pt the Palace of Blenheim.,* millic.e 
01' hi n y. »nd a princely th-;n 'in. STot*w4fti 
a '.■I.mui in lb" pension h-t, wi:h tne fJuk* 
o .■ ».! cons, who, b'Cii.'i.se hi*»a- cestcar wa.< 
j i '.I: ",j t-i!> it' j child of Chariv!* li., dr»»s 
I i 1'e |)0 

HP fj' 

ijurli .V 'dfa-p ) You want reform i" the 
rsi ut\M, with its heirs of the Duke of 



'THE 1\&IK'M KItlJOIS. *"' 
Howe: er una 1 <1* we may be to aoeom.t 
for it, there certam'y is a fundamental e:r< r 
ill. human actio* and intercourse, ithich 
leads to the most Jamoutable consequences. 
iui*o!i.:! l'! and' irrrsnrti- 1 Though natural'? nobis, confiding and gen- 
ble reform, social ion; ond^ in Hie sublimity i (; . oos " finds himself invoked In a svslem 
of vour ax-'sewatnm, sn the omnipotence ot ; ..... ., , • 1 . 1: 

- , . , • 1 ,1 rivhfcn lr< n» the bea nam" devebprs him 

ftp blcuued energi- s, m the Oncr»querablc | ' <• . ■ P 

'resolution of your will, you sh ill soon obtain ■ fafperv, restricts the excrriss of his best affec- 

iful 
ad of 

henceforth give you and them the powei to 



•v ;->i dureji, its costly v.ietsopuli'aa essnbSish- 
nient,and its manifold ami iuon.sU - oos abuses. 

Un itc with your reform brethren in every 
part id* this wrfsgttvprned l.nnd. Appear in 
\ our numbers and your i,feugtli. Together., 
'(■>rxa one C"s;».'i, indj&tdut do and irn sisli- 



„1 afcin.aied elo in-s pegs, who flii't<r *->d f™.« victor >'. all(1 win fo1 ' yourselves and your j ti>.ns, and constrr.ii s hjm into a diftius 
■Jde amidst the b an.s of rovalrv, oaly that 'children tho:,.- political (fchts winch will , C5 i 0u i ;;t i ni ,, ^-bth-ary and exclusive, in>lcn 

henceforihgive you and tliem the powei to fl f spontaneous aad benevolent cours. 
do sometlnng ior the fjrosperi'y and happi- 



ness of the lanrl you live in,ai:«lfor the peace 
and welfare of the ' wojSAi Be jepcoura^ed 
by . the si^ns of the times. The spirit of 
reform i-< abroad; so,also,js the spirit of des- 
po','^m and of bondage; But be of good 
h art; for v. ho can doubt the issue#>f the 
cor.fficl? Not i, AmiHst the roar of 
elements, tho tumult of voice*, and the'eiash 



;f ahiis, I hear the cry, "Reform ! 



oiiK'.e, bt si ie.s a pensv ti 
e icise lfV)".!'.K's — (so 



•* '!«i)v>':iii(M%-;"^vh s> ancestor, a Duchman, 
t'o ig'ii-.at 't^.o 'b.Llib: of Ijoyi.e, and was well 
r-wardaij P>r it, bat whose heirs lfiO yars 
s.f ef continue to draw £2900 a \esft 

fisi:. of the p'ist oifice. Are you aware, my 
I >i '->r-writin2 fiiends, ihat you must put 2,- 
473,3 '0 CJaeftH's heads u.p;»n your epistles 
ivfoie the lfluJc.es of Marlborough and G raf- 
to i, and th.'se heirs of Schombsrg, can get 
toeir morj ? And' that these d ical rnendi- 
» a us con sume that v/hirh would buy 2,47 3,- 
i);vn-iy loaves, to teed the shoeless. 
i'nni.thin.$ orphans thn,t wa-uler through oui 
fitreets? The pension list ! Yes, with it* 
Hanover'an potentate, L2 1,000, a year; its 

" Prince of oaxe C .burs;, and £30,000; its! 



LAND REFORM IN FRANCE. 
Bef. re the first French Revolution; said 
Hr Baic ', ill "lie of his late lectures, thy soil 
of France was in thje hands oftlie Crown, 
the Cutirch atul the imbjlity. The u asses 
were landless tenants and l&borels,, ignorant 
and sorelv oppYessed. One of the results of 
that revolution was to enable those tenan s 
and, Laborers to become landed proprietors. 
And now, out of the 36 millions in France, 
it is, estimated that 18 millions own land and 
have homes. An amount, larger in propor- 
tion^ than- the number of land-ow ners in the 
(Juried Stales. r ■ 

The efteet of this change, upon the mass- 
es,. 'yas mojt striking and benefjeietft. France 
n-'Vtj is not the France that she was. Tl.e 
infuses of the people have homes, independ- 
ence, self-respect, education, ami comforts, 
far beyond anything they had before.. They 
are !ar higher in the scale of being. They 
nre better informed of their rights and' inter- 
. v. n sivr-reint a a- 1 £50,000; its Dowagei I o-ts. Tire knowledge thus acquired embold- 

0 i-e.. and £160,000. And time would f ,il I lhefn 10 ^nvMi\ of Lou.s Phillip the 
tltell of the Br i^hams, Colohssters, Can- rh^ftv ot the Press, universal suflrags, and 
Mnrms, Caonj^s, B>xlevs, Ch'iielgs. I c*r.anci:iatrm from the despotic laws which 
C-iin ih lis, Lvadlv^is, Lus'hintlons, Crock ' them to assemble m greater numbers 
crs IL-viesb; r . s, Poroses, Primn s s an . < t; ' i; > f*<-'W ;lt a tliaR ) to consult 1.1 regard to 
I' reivals, who, hec-uise themsidves, ih.-f, ! ds.ar ngiits an 1 '.lati-rests. And because the 
fVhew, or their grandfatiie.s were chancel- 1 monarch rebi-ed their demands, they became 
l'\-s, sps-ak-rs, amiiiiss d> -rs, warriors, gov 
er iors, and secretaries, all wilh - en Tir.ous 
; I'arie.s for .-very ho;ir they #>rve<l their conn-, 
try, (and sorrn: of tle-nr services wore worse 
t«tan equivocal,) .are pe rsiiMted upon the 
j a d and are sujy.wted by taxes ! vied up- 
rntl.o.e whose i-very shiJlini paid tithe 

1 Ita^e is the fruit of their lab-T in the mine, 
t le fuld, the workshop, or the loom, an i are 
hv ti*>->' hug'*, unm"rited pensions <! privet; 
of p irt of the nourishment which theii wasting 
lo'l demtn j 'jL. u*9k/L 

O, that thes^ B Igravian recipi -nts fif a'ms 
fro 11 t'l' w>e civ !, would sometimes think 
whan al.ohi «'i th <ir sil!c*n conchy, or riding 
i'- li .de Pa Ic, »f thos;; pale, faint, con-ump- 
t v • ci - a n »-i w i > furnish th?m with theii 
1 Maries; 'hit ih 'V would sometiijies sticid 
1 '. nrtlrmgliis to. the h"u:ed, fetid, room ot 



the lo'irfy gnsrst of i!v 
•f MmiWj}.», w>i <m 'wor'i.',* Srork,' *stitch,' 
<-i«c:i,' Sit »r»o-«-, who, from i-»J-iv*» saa- 
riw to Si unl /'s ntnw.it, i#l for t.vopearce 
o,- thivjp 'iicej in th.-i- den, that th -s •, S ate 
it mpes may far-» sunvitujus'v everyday, 
'■"ou w in'. G'laaciffi ffform I Yes, to djrivi 
thi plou ihshar-' through the stupendous 
sih.ises of the army, navy, and ihe ordnancej 
with th ir joi.it (^xpeniiture of seventeen 
1,1'dions a v s ir, spent on soldi r.*and murin- 
ers; on roi-k 'ts and shells, on horses and 
harness and gun carriages, on ships of war 
aid a-senal*, on do&'ts and fort' fictions, on 
fifty ihti'isi n I bellowing; cannon, nnd si^iy- 
fie ; mi li m of bad cartrfnes, and a hundred 
and seventy tho wind barrels of gimp >wder 
! id b.-dd.M all iiiej"., th-' vast amount spenl 
onalmirals wi hout ship«, aid half pays. 
:nl s'lppraniuities, an I a'owanees, &c — 
'f'sil it no; on the p'a'ni of O r '.9si, where 
i'l igknd, tn-o igi h-r missiona|i -s, ii seek- 
in ' to s»o-» the ear of JaS^aro -ut, tha' f > te- 
w«n m ilio'* of po>nds a y *ar nf Briijjh 
monc^ris snrifi je.l b> the Mohieh "f War! 
.You wan* (i tan *ial reform ? Yes, 10 cleanse 
that ivorse than Augean stah'c, the wood.-; 
an 1 fore ;ts, with its insani mana>jemi»lBt, its 
*-x '.ravngant and sinecure salaries, it. jobbing 
^tn.l fraudulent leas-s, ii i m'>.st guilty mai /t r- 
fiia'i 'tis, its favoritism, to th n nobles of thi' 
'and, its barbarous and ftjudal privih'"'es, its 
1 s" irif eiv able peculations, its misuse of the 
la d a-'d hs ri'souifes, its perversion of the 
soil, whicliSfcthi: birthnght of the children 



q V _ i excited; and tho first drop of blood that Was 
inconsiderately shed, fell among them tike a 
spark of fire upon the m>st combustible ma- 
terials; ignited them into a liame whichcon- 
Sumed the monarchy, the. ministry, and 
nobility; 'drove the king from France, de- 
clared, universal emancipation, and convulsed 
all the kiiigdotns of Europe. ' 

)Ve allnde tolKhis historical fact, to illus- 
trate the truth we so often assert, that "homes 
for all," is not « u y llv natural right of all, 
out indispensable to individual happiness and 
.s.ciil ( ingress . Man, in possession of a 
> or'ion of th 1 eartH, and in the c: joyment bl 
its fruits^ feels that he has his pbee in the 
divine arrangensen's. S' cure in such posses- 
sion, he attains the greatest growth of mora), 
pi;, seal and in e'lectuat manhood.' 

Ani Why fihoald he not be secure in the 
;Tijs";-sio:iTof a portion of God'j free eartiiV 
Why should ha be told t!;at those who were 
earn before him had the whole, and that the 
ii fding to him a put is only an. indulgence, 



m i |h it b« 



s may 



ivt demand 
not k 



it as a 
that 



every 



Who that reflect*, do 

, man is entitled to. a jiorlini of the earth, as 
truly as lie is oe.tilled to the light of the sun ? 
What Christian!, kn.nving that the earth is 
GtuVgt free gift to every man he has put 
upon it, dare take il frrofn any of his crea- 
tures ? What government, but one forsaken 
of God, dare sanction such an outrage ? 

Fiance has been bb st in breaking up the 
slid land monopoly system, and making it 
possible for a large portion of her citizens to 
acquire homes. Her next ste|> should be to 
snake it' imposs'blc fiir .jmy oneVamily to 
possess an nnreasodahle portion of the earth. 

.The happiness of her people, as the happi- 
ness of the American people, depends upon 
the ppbersion and ownership of homss. The 
g en 1 of society, is to make the people 
an I fhrip rights secure. It is the. hightesl 
policy of •govrnmv.'n 1 . to provide fir the 
rights and hapoiness of all. Once settle the 
psiiicipie thai no one shnll own more. th:i n 11 
cirtian qiwinnityof land,thert may ail people 
have homes. All men wotl'd be interested 
to sustain such a government. No. popular 
comolion could ileslioy ii. Tt.e peoj.^e would 
never again eon-.ent m become homeless wsm- 
iersrs, a^ many of Ihem-lmMv an*, and as al! 
are liable to he, under the wicked goveru- 
m of the world. — Liberty Parly Paper. 



of Kftfian. This fash- and perverting system 
is the legitimate result of this imporian! 
primary error. It is an entirely ayslaki n 
course of action, which amounts to no less 
than an inversion of the moral nature, ^lf is 
the prolific cause of ali disorder and injustice, 
enmity, strife and violence. And th"cs»e(Iec!s 
cannot he avoided hi any other way than 
by avocdmg the cause ; i. e. correcting this 
radical error ; utterly renouncing this false 
and erroneous principle of action. 

That these should have been error in the 
early stages ofuhuman progress, is lmt very 
strange ; and it is certainly wise and propei 
to correct il when discovered, pat wc may 
develope ourselves truly, and g^o on our way 
w ith harmony and joy. It is v.\ i lent that 
there must be a change hi primary e*dacation 
and development, which will lead lo a 
corresponding change in all human action 
and intercourse. It is on'y through and in 
accordance with the free exercise of the 
bi nevolent affections, tnat moral beings can 
truly and happily deal with, each Other.- 
Their moral nature precludes the possibility 
of their being favorably influenced in any 
other way. All arbitrary or coercive meas- 
ures, of every kind and degree, are immoral, 
and ail exclusion of auy from confidence and 
sympathy, nec^psanly disastrous. It is only 
by the generous, confiding, and magnanimous 
appeal of each to the' generosity,, confidence 
and magnanimity of t le other, that true 
peace and harrilt»ny s can be attained. Nothing 
short of the entire abandonment of the selfish, 
arbitrary and exclusive, and the full, free end 
hearty adoption of the benevolent and fra- 
ternal principle of action, can answer the 
,iiirpose. Justice demands the free exercise 
of love, and iiothi.Bg but love, from aff t > all. 
As all are by nature benevolent and generous, 
and susceptible of mora, improvement and 
elevation only by and through the exercise 
of benevolence and generosily, it is unjust 
for any to act otherwise than benevolently 
;ind generously to any. Ptrfect jusiice can. 
not be satisfied with anything short of perfect 
bmevolence ; for justice and boiv.-v.oli nee 
sire one. To be just to ourselves, we ui'J-t 
bo confiding and benevolent to others, what, 
ever maydjss their character or conduct to us. 
T\> Le true lo our, own natur.c, we, must act 
spontanously nnd generously to all ; as it is 
by free and benevolent act onr only that wc 
can truly elevate and enrich ourselves, as 
well as others; whereas, self-preferment, 
arbitrary or exclusive feelings exercised to- 
wards any, whatever be their character Or 
conduct tons, contracts and depraves us, as 
it docs' them, and makes all poor and mean. 

It is so perfectly in accordance with the 
deepest iiistincts of our nature, and affords 
us so much true satisfaction to be benevolent 
and generous, that we can vw il sacrifice 
wdiat in our ignorance may appear to be our 
exclusive individual in'eresl, and thereby 
secure what is in reality our true interest and 
happiness, in promoting the interest and 
happiness, of all. In truth there can be no 
such thing as sacrifice, or ui>aJ loss, except 
to those who, are so short-sighted and foolish 
as to. exercise seifi.sh, arbilray or exclusive 
feelin.s, and thus injure themselves, by 
viola ing the dei pest and most vital law ol 
their being, the inimitable and all-pervading 
! - of Love — the great central Law of Life. 

True happiness is found not by seeking il 
tjr its own sake, or for our selves only, but 



In sjp-'f-ulandom tit; '.he forgetfxihaess of s< If; 

in that deep, broad, mstineij^e TLove. which 
prompts us spontaneously to seek the highest 
universal good. It comes then as the natural 
cooseqjieuee of acting in harmony with tlo 
trat> order of nature ; and the opposhe c« u.s •, 
1 ccessiivily leads lo the opposite result. 

Those m ail time, who have taken h ast 
thought for themselves, and have sought 
most truly and widely lo promote the liappi- 
ncss of authors, have without doubt thereby 
most effectually secured their own. So truly 
and beau' ifuljy does ii tiev;Io;se the moral 
nature, and., so* really decs it expand and' 
elevate the charntcr, while the opposite 
course so'eontracis and degrades it, there 
need be no wonder that one who, centuries 
ago, eminently' taught and exemplified in his 
life this true course of action, should have 
been liteniily worshipped by so many of his. 
cllovv men ever since. 

?tlank!nd are yet in almost total ignorance 
of the infinite resources of tie ir own na'ure. 

They cannot, isi the moral blindness onse, 
quent upon their present false condition, 
conceive of the vast advantages of a true 



cours s of action. We can only know these 
by being true to our nature — yielding im- 
plicit obedience to the law of Love— an I 
thus cosning into unity with each other, 
and with (ho Infinite Source of Lif-', Light, 
and Love. Just so far as we do this, shall 
«e be enlightened to kn ow and "understand, 
ourselves and others aright, and no longer be 
disposed lo judge superficially, but by look- 
ing deep cr.ongh to see the good there is in 
all, shall have a confidence in, and a lore 
jbr all, which nothing can possibly destroy. 
Nor shall we be disposed to condemn auy 
for aught that they may do or say, while in 
the in present inverted and deranged condition. 

He «ho knows man truly, knows that, 
sympathy ; ill encouragement is w hat i.o 
needs, mid deserves; not distrust and con- 
demnation. It is certain that he cannot be- 
coerced by any physical power, or cutward 
necessity, into a true course of moral action. 
Bat if generously dealt -w ith, and his best , 
and deepest fee ing? thus truly appealed to,, 
from the inmost centre of his own being, 
freely and truly, spontaneously and nobly 
will he act,, in beautiful harmony with all 
the laws of God around and within him. 

Edward Palmer. 



CONVENTION OF THIEVES, 
li app ars by the fol ow ing itenvof foreign 
news, that there has leceudy been a conven- 
tion in London composed wholly of* thieves. 
The object was lo devise means for improv- 
ing their social and mocaf condition. Win n, 
avowed thieves convene together for the 
purpose of inquiring: whether there is not 
such a thing as living by honest means, it is 
good evidence ihat mm is not totally de- 
praved, and does. not pursue a wrong cours;* 
entirely from choice. It shows that there is 
that within- him which leads him to desire to 
do right. There is very 1 i t tlo reason to doubt 
that most, if not all wrong doing, is the rcsuU 
of wrong" education, based upon the present 
selfish and false principle of actiuii. 

"A Thieves Convention has bi-en held in 
London, for the purpose of adopting meas- 
ures to procure an honest livelieoou. Ttvo 
hundred mid seven aVowed thieves attended. 
The meeting was opened with prayer and 
,1 hymn. All address was proposed to Loicl 
Ashley, asking il any hope was presented of 
their obtaining an honest living in the British 
Colonies. His Lordship expressed his \yiil- 
ingness to befriend them, as it was his duty 
to do. He candidly told them there was. 
little hope for them, unless they tun cd their- 
attention to the back settlements of the New 
World. Suggestive of levity, as may be- 
these facts, there is something si'iious and 
solemn in them. "We must steal or.ilie," 
was the response of one of the thieves; 
''•prayer is very pond, but it will not fill »n 
empty stomach." Can anything be moie ex- 
pressive of the depraving influences of* our 
present social system. 



.r-arj-xj^rr rTerrife *wwcr ■■ 



THE FREEMAN. 



BOdNTON, JANUARY 30, 1850. 

LIBERTY', EQL\1X.ITY\ 
FM.l TERJYITlf. 



THE STANDARD OF RIGHT. 
Eoonton Weekly S CIA i. Meeting. — 
This meeting for free investigation, &n the 
eleventh nst. entered into a thorough exam- 

o 

inalion of tliis question — "Is there any uni- 
versal law, rule or standard of right, which 
»3 binding under all circumstances V* It was 
decided that there was such a law, and thai 
law was LOVE. It could never be sus- 
pend 'd without sin. — ft was binding under 
all circumstances. — It was adapted to all 
people, at all timsss, under a'l conditions, 
suited to all emergencies. — Love worketh no 
ill to any neighbor; it is the fulfilling of the law. 
<'arried into practice, it would beat swords 
*nio plow shares and spears into pruning 
books. . Tiie unreserved obedience of this 
law is what God requires of us, and all be 
rerjaireig of us. It would bring peace on 
earth and good wiH to men. The lion and 
the land) would I'fy down together, earth 
would be a paradise, God would be glorified 
and man made happy. 



Religion doe3 not consist in a mere ob- 
servance of ceremonies. This is no mors 
than the most false hcart-d, selfish and hypo- 
critical, the vilest o£ wretches, the worst 
on an ies of Go.l an'J man can follow out. 
The truth i--, hollow hearted and selfish beings 
are by far the best qdalified to carry out and 
sustain a religion of formalities. Every page 
jpf the world's history exhibits in unmistak- 
able language, the acursed influence of rcli- 
gious rituals. They have alwaySUto a greater 
or less r extent diverted the human mind 
from the real thing, and can never do other- 
wise. True religion is humble, forgiving, 
unostentatious, tolerant, charitable and kind. 
The law of love- is its enly law. It has its 
seat in the heart, and is exemplified: only in 
the Ufa. It is not a thing of profession, but 
of practice. It does not consist in suijiiuj, 
but iii actual doing. 



Religious Liujjrty i.\ Georgia. — A bil! 
has been brought forward in the Legislature o! 
Georgia, to prevent colored persons frum as- 
ieaib ing f sr religious worship, unless con- 
ducted bv white persons, and to prevent any 
negro being licensed as a preacher. 



The"Pauper Labor of England." — The 
table of wages paid in the cotton mills of 
England, p iblishedby a committee of Pariia- 
nien', and therefore deemed authentic, shows 
the following : 

Rate of wag:s paid in Manchester cotton 
factories ; spinners, j£l to £2 5s per week, 
or nearly $1 per clay*, earders at the rate of 
$18 per month ; w.>moa $3 per week ; pow- 
er loom weavers $3 per week; children- $1, 
75 cents per week. 

Rate of wages paid at Bradford wollcn 
factories ; men average $5 per week ; wo- 
men $3 per week ; children $1 25 to $1, 
75 cents per week. 

The Richmond Enquirer says : Compare 
these "pauper wages of England" with the 
waged paid by the cotton and woolen facto- 
ries of Richmond and vicinity, and it will be 
found that not one establishment pays as 
high wages as the above named rate's, and 
notwithstanding our factories pay less wages, 
they all work more hours. 

It is very evident that something besides 
a change in the rate of wages is necessary to 
elevate the working classes. .AIT should be 
joint stock proprietors, and thus be equally 
iuteresred in the work they perform. 



TIETETJC REFORM. 

In our last, on the i%htfulness of s'au".h- 
tering animals for food, We ended our remarks 
with a quotation from Dr. Lick. g' 

Piautus, a distinguished Roman writer, 
about two thousand years a.o, gives the fol- 
lowing remarkable testimony, after' proving 
the sufficiency and superiority of vigatablc 
di*t.— 

"You app'y the te'm wild to iions, pan 
theirs, and serpents; \ et, in your own &avagt 
slaughters, you surpass them in feroei y; I'oi 
the blood shed by them is a matter of in ce ; - 
sity, and requosiie for their subsistence. 

First of all, the wi'd, mischievous animals 
were select* d for food; and then the Unh- 
and fishes were dragged to- slate., l.te •; next 
the human appetite directed its' If ;giint~thc 
laborious. o>:,' tlie us fill and fleece-bearing 
sheep, and the cock, the guardian of tie 
house. At last, by this-, pre'pata ory disci- 
pline, man became matured for hun.u.i mas- 
sacres, slaughters, and wars." 

Plutarch, another very eminent Roman 
writer, sso s : 

"It is best to accustom ourselves'to eat no 
flesh at all; for the ea 1 1 allure's plenty enough 
of things not only lit for nourishment, but tor 
enjoyment and delight; some of which may 
be eaten without much preparation, and oth- 
ers may be made pleasant by adding divers 
other things to them. 

"You ask me," continues Plutarch, "for 
whit reason- Pythagoras abstained from eat- 
ing the flVsh of brutes ? For my part, I am 
astonished to- think, on the contrary, whal 
appetite first induced man to taste a dead 
carcase; or what motive could suggest the 
notion of nourishing himself with the flesh qf 
animals which he saw, the moment before, 
bleating, bellowing, walking, and- looking 
around them. How could he bear to sec an 
impotent and defenceless creature slaughter- 
ed, skinned, ind cut up for food ? How could 
he endure the sight of the convulsed limbs 
and muscles? Whence happened it that be 
was not struck with horror when he came to 
handle (lie bleeding flesh, and clear away 
the clotted blood from the wounds? We 
should rather wonder at the conduct of those 
who' first indulged themselves in this horrible 
repast, than at such as have .humanely ab- 
stained from it." 

Porphyry, of Tyre, who lived about the 
middle of the third century, wrote a book on 
the superiority of a vegetable diet, as bes* 
fitted, render all circumstances, for man's 
physical, intellectual and moral development 

He says: — li lt was not from those who 
lived on grains, fruits and vegetables, that 
robbers or murderers, sycophants and tyrants 
have proceeded; but from ficsh-eatcrs. The 
necessaries of life are. few and easily acquir- 
ed, without violating justice, liberty, health, 
or peace of mind." 

Alexander Pope, the poet, ascribed the bad 
passions and diseases of; the human race, to 
their subsisting on the flesh and blood of 
animals. 

"Nothing," be says,, "can be more shock- 
ing or horrid than one of our kitchens, spnn- 
k'ed with blood, and abounding with the cries 
of creatures expiring, .or with the limbs of 
dead animals scattered or hung up here and 
there;. It givs one an image of a giant's 
den in romonce, bestrewed with the scattered 
heads and mangled limbs of those who were 
sdain by his cruelty.'' 

"The Abbe; Gallani ascribes all social 
crimes t© animal destruction — thusytreachery 
to angling and ensnaring, and ln.utd'r to 
hunting and sho ting. ' And he asserts that 
the man who would kill a sheep an ox, or 
any unsuspecting animal, would, but for the 
law, or custom, kill his neighbor." 

The cruelty and injustice of slaughtering 
animals for the gratification <>f a morbid ap- 
petite, will becoiiie more and more mauifi st 
as we allow ourselves to think about it. 
Indeed, as long as we a--e determined to pur- 
sue a course of flesh-eating, we cannot allow 
our thoflghts to dwell upon it. The moment 
we allow ous minds to glance at the cutting ug 
1. nub's throats, the shooting t of innocent birds, 
the cutting off of chickens heads, the break- 
ing in of the skulls of cows a::d oxen, the 
struggling agonies and dying groans of the 
poor animals, that had never injured us, per- 
haps bad served us all their lives, and then 
think of the bloody fragments of their man- 



gled Bodies ; we shrink instinctively from the 
contemplation. Can it be posible rhat a 
wise and beni ficeft Creator ever d« signer 
that man should draw his sustenance from i 
source that l.e cannot 'contemplate whhcu 
such painful « motions? We donotlefl ve i'. 
We do not believe that his n -ce. i i s i c j u i ■ < 
such an abuse and viu'atioa of the aw a. 
Love. We believe that man should be abb 
to contemplate with d- light the means re- 
quisite for tie pr cuing of ail that hii 
necessiti s demand. 



(*e>There are 300 societies of Bible Chris* 
tions- in Enjlnud, whose Religious Faith 
prohibits the use of animal f.od. 



THE MOTHER'S INFLUENCE. 
When residing among the Choctaw In- 
dians, (says the Rev. S. Dyer,) I held a con- 
versation with one of their principal chiefs 
respecting their progress, and among other 
things he informed me that at their first start 
they fell into the mistake of sending onl> 
their boys to scho 1. They became intelli- 
gent men, but they married uneducated wives, 
and the uniform result was that the children 
were all like the mother; and the father lost 
his interest ill both wife and children. And 
now, he said, if we were to educate on'y one 
class of our children, we would educate the 
"i r!s, for when they became mothers they 
would educate their sons and daughters. 
This is true, and of the highest importance. 
No people can become fully and permanently 
enlightened and free, unless ih- mcth ts are 
qualified to perform th? great and all-important 
work of home (ducat. on. 



For Sale. — A colored 



of ver\ 



supe- 



rior qualifications, who is now in Mr: ii 
Jail, in Norfolk. She is what speculator; 
call a fancy (jirl — a bright Mulatto, a fine 
figure, straight black hair, and very black 
eyes — remarkably neat and cleanly in her 
dress and person. There is not a beitei 
seamstress, cutter and fitter of ladies' an> 
children's dresses, iu Norfolk or elsewhere, 
or a more fanciful knitter of bead bags, mon- 
ey purses, &.c. — Norjo'.k Paper. 



Dentistry. 



G. P. MARTIN. M. D.. Surgical and 
Mechanical Dentist, hereby notifies the 
inhabitants of Boouton and v.ic i-iity, that he- 
will be at the office of Dr. Grimes on. the 
first Saturday in February, where he will 
continue on the following Mond.iv, and will 
be ready to perform any operations in his 
line, in a satisfactory manner and on. reasona- 
ble terms. Should the weather be stormy, 
he will attend on the second Saturday instead 
the first. His regular office is oppssite Odd 
Fellows Hall, Main street, Patterson. 



C A REVIEW OF THE CAUSES 
AND CONSEQUENCES OF THE MEX- 
ICAN WAR : By William Jay. This is the 
most important book lately published on the 
subjects of War and Slavery, and should be 
sown broad cast over this land. It is r. .duo. 
decimo volume of 353 pages. Every friead 
of truth should interest himself in the circu- 
lation of it. The price it is sold at for gratu- 
itous circulation; puts 'it in the power every 
man to do something. It is as follows r 

Je>GnATutTors Circulation. — Will not 
friends or the object devise means to spread 
this work widely in every town ? As funds 
have been given- for the purpose, it will be 
furnished, (though 1 only by wholesale, for 
gratuitous circulation,) at rates much cheaper 
than/ even unbound tracts, viz : Six copies 
for $1, or 100 for $15, and on poorer paper, 
for $13. Apply to W. C. Brown, 21 Corn- 
hill, Boston; Wm. Harnedj Gl John street, 
Mew York; Joseph. Scattergood, 8-1 Arch 
Street, Philadelphia. Price, single, 75 cents 
in cloth, and 50 cents in paper covers. 

{^..PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, 
considdered with relation to Dietetics, by 
Andrew Combe, M. *D. This is a very 
cheap anxl valuable book, published by Fow- 
ler Si Wells, 131 Nassau street, New York* 
The writings of Dr Combe, however, need 
■:o recommendation.. 



CO PSYCHOLOGY, TEE «CTKKM IT 
OF THE SOUL, (\ nsi.Ured P;.^Uogif*ll« 

;i.d 1'Lil s^j.hica'ly, v. ith an aj p< eeix, < < t -5 

ami- g notes of Mt-ni trie andjETsycitt 1 n — I 
perience, by Joseph Haddock, M. "D. This 

sa woik on Mesmerism and Cln-i > 1 yMict , 
publ shed by Fowlers k Wells, 131 Niss.au 
'■(licet, IS. Y., price 25 < cms. it »i]J 1 . {j .i.d. . 
interesting to all the lovers -Ji tbfU biaucl. o£ 

Sl< i.tal Science. 

{^CHRONIC DISEASES : Especi 'y. 
he Ner v < us Diseases of Worn* n, by I '• 
iosch. Translated f 6m the German, by 
Charles Dummig. This is the title of a sma't 
book, on a somewhat proscribfrCk'srfrifect, ' u- 
never, heb-ss one of t>i" greatest inipertanc^H 
it i;. a filse delicacy tliat prohibits inquiry 
into subjects so intimately connected with 
health and purity of life. The Look is pub- 
lished by Fowlers .& W, lis, 13 1 Nassau si., 
N. Y. Price 25 cents. 

A SYSTEM OF YEGETABLE DIET, .. 
as sanciioned by Medical Men and by Expe- 
rience in all ages, including Vegetable Cook- 
ery, by Dr Wrg. A. Alcolt. Published and 
for sale by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nassau st 
N. Y. This is one of the most imj.oi tai t 
books ever published. We cannot see bow 



any honest, truth-loving man or woman can 
read' it and hesitate between the pore produc- 
tions of the earth and the fruits of the s s« ligh- 
ter house. No person, can read it without 
benefit. 

C<3,THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOGY 
ICAL JOURNAL.— This valuable Journal 
is published by Fowlers & Wellsj 131 Nas- 
sau street, N. Y., at one c'ellar a year 
monthly! It shou'd be read by all in £i»or 
of intellectual progress. The No. for January 
contains as usual a variety of flatter both 
interesting and eotcrtainfing. The Journal 
is never read w ithout benefit bv any who are 
desirous of intellectual advanceinei 

(Jf>YOUNG AMERICA.— This paper, 
which has been suspended some lime, is now 
outauain. We are glad to see it, aim hjuue 
thos'i who htffe the means v. ill see to it tt.ac 
ii does not languish for want of support. 
Land Reform is too important a subject to 
be kst»sight 4 of. U is issued by J. G. iioi.e_v- 
wcll, l42.Na'sau street, N. Y. George ii. 
Evans is still, the Editor. 

LIBERTY PARTY PAPER. — This is 
the organ of that branch of the Liberty psirty 
called the Liberty League, published byJol-.n 
Thomas, Syracuse, N. Y. at $2 a year. It is 
an excellent paper, and contains many things 
hat all people should know, particularly' the 
poor and landless. 

{••^ALMANACS FOR 1850. 

The Phrenological Almanaac for 1850 is 
published and for sale by Fowlers L Wells, 
131 Nassau street, N. Y. It contains the 
likenesses of William 0» Bryant, Benjamin 
Franklin, Hiram Powers, Louis Napoleon, 
Daniel Efoone, Margaret Prior and others--, 
with interesting sketches of each, and much 
other matter. It will 110 doubt have a wide 
circulation. 

Also THE WATER CURE ALMANAC for 1850, 

by the same publishers, Fowlers & Well*,. 
131 Nassau street. It contains directions fox 
the various uses of water, a« article «»u 
Anatomy and Physiology, another on the- 
Teeth, with many other articles, altogether 
an excellent article for ciuci^lation. « 

TIIE LIBERTY ALMANAC For 1850, 
is now published and ready for sale by Wm. 
Hitrned, 61 JohnxBtreet, N. Y. It contains 
an abstract vjew of slavery iu all its bear- 
ings, political, mora! and religious, the true 
remedy pointed out, By Wm. Goodeil, whose 
name is a sufficient recommendation to every 
person knowing the vig»r of his mind as a 
writer. Wp wish it an extensive circulation. 
Price 5 cents single, 40 cents a dozen, $2,5Qi 
per 100* $2.0 per 1000. 



: — : — _— ■ — T T tr ■CT-r-r.^*: 3-*cr3 r 



1 lilj II A J .1 vA 

AN0XVM0US. 

M 1 ' fa'her wa= a tar ner troo.l, 

With cow and beef a plenty, 
] mowed an I !.o -J a-ul held the plow, 

RS&nd longed for ope-atn 3 -twenty. 
For I had q t'to a martial turn, 

And pcorned th-.j lo.ving cattle ; 
1 burned to wear a un'form, 

11 -v: drums, and see a tvtuie. 

birthday came, my father urged, 
But stoutly 1 resisted ; 
My sister wept, my mother pray'd, 
4 1} it off I went and listed. 
Th-v mafeh'd me <»n through wet and dry, 

To UrneS mar- loud than chaiming, 
But lugging knaps >clt, box and gui, 
^ Whs. harder work than farming. 

\V« me* th$ fo-°, the cannons roared, 

Th<-' crimson tide was flowing — 
The fciutftful d-ath-srrotns filled my ears, 

I wished that I was mowing. 
1 lost my !e?, the fee came on, 

Thev had me in theirdu'che* ; 
I starved it) prison ti'l the p°a.'"'\ 

TJieo hobbled hone on crutches. 



CALIFORNIA. 

Is it not linac to take a sober second thought 
of iLjs California bubble, an*] to spread sgme 
plain t'-icts before the public midd ! 300 ves- 
sels are nov in San Francfacp Bay; 500 will 
have left the United States by the end of the 
year; f>0,000 peisons «i lipase gone in these 
vesitis and the- s'eainers. Nearly an equal 
number will reach the placers by land. — 
100,000 person's will be there by or soon after 



the first of January 



if 50: 



1 he cost of out 
fit and passage cannot be less than $200 to 
a man, or £30,000,000. Will it not cost 
thetn §500 a year to live in California / If so, 
ihere is 850,000,000. Would they not think 

their time cheaply sold at £200 a yoar, clear lUmon among themselves, 
of board and clothes ? This would be 020, | the right way to emancipate labor 
ooo,coo more, or $1,000,000,000 of gold— j j r rmu {; JC tyranny, not the alliance 
nothing but gold must come from Caliiorma, f mo , ieyed c j taL Lubo r should 
to bring, tnennaera on square Tivitn the w.oild. , J ' . . 
Who believes that half this sum will come?| be the master, not the slave ol mo 



socialism in Paris. 
The ' : artisans," « ! operatives," 
" laboring classes," " lower orders, !r 
or wliatever else be the title ol 
those who create all the " things " 
by svhich they remain pour and 
merchants grow rich, are opening 
their eyes in Paris and other cities 
of France. They have began to 
abandon competition with each 
other, and union for the exclusive 
benefit of the "higher classes," for 

This is 



From Th* Practical Christian. 
BROTHERHOOD. 
Giv me thy hand, my shrinking brother, 

vVhjM-efoi'e dost thou doubting stand ? 
I'm :i<win, thou art another; 

Give IMS then thy grasping hand, 
Lontr ani harij his been ihy thrall, 
Vet th6u art a man for all. 

Gi''e m '• thv hand my wayward brother, 

Lift thy do mcast eys to heaven; 
.I'm a nw», thou art another. 
Turn to God and be forgiven: 

!I tit thou wandered far awav ' • 

Look to Christ-, he is the, way. 

Giv» moRiy hand, my haughty brother, 
Wh iMfioredbsl thou turn away? 

I'm a mm. thou art ihother ; 

What hast Jhou that I've not, pray ? 
i A crown ? Well, hist and pride make king!; 

Gol never made so useless things. 



*B4,OOG,000 is th'! largist estimate that can 
be 3n tde. This will be in the hands of a 
ve- y few of the army of 100,030; and in one 
year we must be prepared to welcome bad; 

thousand broken down, poor,^saappoiat- 
ed men., d scourag?d for life. 
« I say fifty thousand — not that the other 
ufiy thousand will come home with fortunes. 
Most of them will linger about the scanf s oi 
broken hopes, (iy to Oregon, turn Indian and 
hunt buffaloes, or die. A few thousands may 
return with prizes; the rest will bs bitterly 
disappointed, and their friends with them. 
All previous bubbles that have floated in the 
imagination, the South Sea Bubbly the Mis- 
sissippi Bubble, will b> forgotten in the great 
California Bubble. The )o~s to the country 
in the labor <'ue to families, in the merchan- 
dize wasted, the houses forsaken on the sands 
of San Francisco, and the vessels knocked to 
pieces and floating in the Pacific, will not be 
less tljan $150,000,000 to $200,000,000. 
Will that bring on no collapse ? Ten years 
or industry and economy will barely recover 
this error. Is it rig';t to inciease this' /ever, 
and multiply Victims" of so terrible an itifatu- 
ation \ — Boston TrtveHer. 



t LETTERS ON FREE MASONRY, 
This is a'ptmphlet of 100 pages, from the 

press of T. It. Marvin, 24 Congress street. 
Boston. It contains the letters of John C 
Spencer, Richard Rnsh, Edward Elerett 
and others on' the subject of Free Masonry, 
which should be read and treasured up by 
every lover of justice and humanity. 

.^.OUTLINES OF A NEW SYTEM 
OF PHY SIOGOMY illustrated with numer- 
ous engravings; is a pamphlet of about 100 
pgaes, by J. S- Redfield, Clinton Hall N. Y. 
price 25 cents. t 

This is a very interesting book on ,Phy.«i- 
ogomy, a very interesting subject, and will no 
doubt be read with satisfaction and profit by 
any who may give it a perusal. 



neyed capital, am! nionevtM capita! 
should be the subordinate, auxilia- 
ry or instrument, and not tbeiyra.nl 
of labor, which is the creator of all 
capital. The cooks " begun it," as 
the boys say. A large number o! 
journeyman cooks, thrown out ol 
employment m the great hotels and 
restaurants by the revolution of 
IS 48, and afterward thrown out of 
bread by the sudden suppression 
of stupidly managed institutions, 
the national workshops, associated 
in companies of four, five, ten, fif- 
tpen, -twenty, any number, to live 
by their profession in cooking for 
the "poorer classes." They united 
their scanty means to hire suitable 
shops, got credit for the necessary 
utensils, got credit with the jour- 
neymen carpenters for wooden ta- 
bles and benches, bought good 



C-iv'frtme thy hand, my wealthy brother, 
\Vh«rel" »•(! n >w thv si.iewise glance 9 

I'm a mr.n, thou art another, — 
Ail the difference is a chance : 

Thy wealth is lent thee man to bless, 
it thou .use it to 0] ,.'4^ ■ 

Give me thy hand, my tarned brother, • 
VVUerefore turn thy ev s a ide ? 

I'm a man, thou art another, 
It thv learning then thy pride ? 

/■>'/)..'/• riches (>0'l has given to thee 

F..r his poor children, — make UVm free! 

Giv^ me thy hand, my toiling brother, 
Hard ihy labor, hard thy hand; 

We are in -n who knoio each other, 
Heart to heart we'll ever sla.id; 

JMnnly is all useful labor, 

Me woo shirks it hates his neighbor. 

Gi"e m ■ thy hand, my faithful brother, 
^JWttling'n«d)ly for the. rioiit; 
Wf are men that icpowettch other, 
" A. in v.. \l\ test I Sue c'ainis of might. 
O ard, then, my faithful b other, 
We aru jnen th it know each other. 
• 

Now we'll join hands with one another— 
Hard iiHnds,soft hands, black hands, white, 
V/o'n' v.'.l ire-n, >\e'!l know each other, 
Lft us joio for truth an<l ri^ht. 
has nude us ail, my brother, 
Let us love a. id bless each other. 

Com ? an I join all, of all the nations: 
Christians, Heathens, Turks and Jews. 

All conditions, ranks and stations, 
O let not a man refuse iTr^- jfc f 

God loves each and all, my brother, 

Let us love and bless each other. 



EXTRAVAGANT LANGUAGE. 
There is an unbisteful practice which is a 
Srying sin among young ladies; I mean the 
use of esagerated, extravagant forms ol 
speech; saying splendid for pretty, magnifi- 
cent for handsome, horrid for very, horrible 



i Slavery office is at 01 John Street, N. Y.,» 
vhere an assortment of Anti-Slavery, Books, 
-'aniphlets, Tracts can be had no reasonable 
erngs — address William Ilarned at the of- 

tce. — t ,, "iijfel 



{^-CHEMISTRY, and its application to 
Physiology Agriculture and Commerce, by 
.'rotes or LIEB'G, price 20 cents, published 
by Fowlers and Welbj, 131 Nassau St. N. 
i'ork. — The works of Professor Licbig speak 
for themselvs 

BU UDELL ON THE TEETH, for 
sale at this OtSce, price twelve and a half 
cents. It is of great importance that a : l 
become acquainted with the cause and cure 
of diseased Teeth. This pamphlet furnishes 
some valuabe light on the subject. 

CAPITA L P V N I SUM ENT — Argument 
of Edward Livingston against Capital Pun- 
ishment, a pamphlet published by the New 
York State Society, for sale at this Office. 



provisions, cooked them iffell and 
sold them cheap to the " laboring 
classes," and succeeded ! They 
took the profit of all their labor, 
instead of surrendering it to the 
master of a great hotel or restaur- 
cent tor handsome, horrid tor very hornble ^ and their customers got better ^TTX^'nuf^ VJ'Fr 
tor unolcasant, Immense for large, thousands, I .' , r U^' 1 ■ S. Arthur.— 1 his h'tle book ifs full of 

or mvriads, for any number mqre than two. feu .or less money. ^ lllCIl* SUCCCSS | instruction and musement for old and younf. 

encouraged associations among ; It is for sale, at this office 

•^workmen" in other occupations;) : — 

and now the principal cities of 
France contain numerous joint 
stock companies of shoemakers, 
tailors, bakers, hatters, carpenters, 
and other trades, who get more for 



»The follojving paragraph, from the writ- 
ing of Sidney Smith, tound its way, about 
a year a»o, into the JV. Y. Obstroer. 

''It is not true that the world ha es piety. 
The modest and unobtrusive piety which 
fiils the hear' With all human charities, and 
makes a m in gentle to others and severe to 
hioioe i, ii a'i object of universal love a. id 
venurauoa. But mankind hate the lust of pow- 
er, when it is veiltd under the garb of piety; 
tbsy hate canting and hypocrisy; they hate 
(advertisers and quacks in piety; they do not 
■boose to be insu I fad; they love to tear folly 
and impudmee lr m the altar whieh should 
on'y Le a sanctuary for the truly good." 



Weie I to write down, for one day, the 
conversation, of some persons of my acquain- 
tance, and then to i iterprtt it literally, it 
vould ioiply, that within the compjps of 
twelve or fourteen hours, they had met with 
more, ntarvellcus adventures and hair-breadth 
'•scapes, had passed through more distressing 
experiences, had fceeii more imposing specta- 
cles, had endured more fright, and enjoyed 
nore rapture, than would suffice for half a 
dozeneommon lives. This habit is attentied 
with many inconveniences It deprives you 
of the intelligible use of strong' expressions, 
when you need them. If you use them all 
the time, nobody understands or believes you 
whan you use them in earnest. You are in 
the .-aine predicament with the boy who 
cried '-woU' " so often when there was no 
wolf, that nobody believed hinri, or would go 
!o his relief when the wolf came. Tbif habit 
has also a-^very bad moral bearing". Our 
words hav#akreflex influence upoa our char- 
actets. Exaggerated speech males one care- 
less of the truth. The habit of using words 
without regard to their rightful menning, of- 
ten leads one to distort facts, tj misreport 
conversations, and to magnify statements, in 
matters in which.thVhteral truth is important 
to be told. You can never trust the testimo- 
ny of one who in common conversation is 
indih'-rent to the import, and regardless of 
the p >wer of words. I am acquainted with 
persons, whose representations of facts al- 
ways need translation and correction, and 
who have utterly lost their ^reputntion for 
veracity, solely through this habit of over- 
strained and extravagant speech. They do 
not mean to lie; but they have a dialect of 
their own, in which words hoar an entirelv 
different sense from .that given them in the 
daitv intercourse of discreet and sober people. 
—Ilsv. A. F. Poapody. 



fjr^TOBACCO: ITS HISOTRY, NA- 
TURE, AND EFFECTS on the Bodv 
and Mind, by Joel Shew, M. D., published 
by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nasaau streej^, 

N. Y. Pi ice 25 cents.. 

PICTORIAL TEMPERNJVGE TALES, 



Pythagoras advises thnt every man, when 
tempted to do wrong, should stand in awe 
of himself, and regard the witness within 
him, who sits as a spy over* all 1 inactions, 
and will one day or- other accuse him to -him- 
self, and put him on such a rack as will make 
hi u accuse himself to others, 



their labor and more for their mcn- 
ey than they ever did before.* 

This system, combined with uni- 
versal (suffrage -.is better than revo- 
lion, barricades, or powder and 
ball. Extended and steadily pur- 
sued, it will finally translate labor 
from poverty to comfort, from de- 
gradation to dignity, from slavery 
to freedom, and annihilate Uroncs, 
aristocracies, stock exchanges, and 
Rofhshilds, land monopolies, stand- 
ing armies, and the whole machin- 
ery through which the many work- 
in misery for the monopolizing few 
The system requires time and la 
bor, patience and perseverance, but 
it will finally prevail. The Paris- 
ians are extending the system to 
real estate, the masons, carpenters, 
painters, glaziers, cabinet makers 
and others, are combining to build 
their own houses on the same 
principle. This is socialism of the 
right sort. — Ledger. 



Free Labor Produce. 
II. L. MURRAY, 

No. $77 Pearl street New York, 

WHOLESALE and Retail dealer in Gro- 
ceries and Dry Goods, which, are not 

the product of Slave Labor. 



WliNDOW GLASS, assorted sizes, for 
sale by J. GRIMES. 

Boonton, Aug. 15th, 1S43. 



MAN'S ARILITY. 
No man knows what he can do 
till he has fully resolved to do what 
he can. When men set about any- 
thing in earnest, they do that which 
before seemed impossible.' Let men 



Ali persons indebted to the estate of Rich- 
ard Kay hart, late of the County o^Morris, 
decfi*se<i, are hereby requested to settle the 
Same, and ail those having claims sig.'iinst 
said estate are notified to pwsaat them to the 
subscriber for examination without delay. 

JOHN GRIMES, Administrator. 

Boonton, Aug. 15tn, 1840. 



Y^I'LOW OCHRE, just received and 
for sale on reasonable terms bv 



Boonton, May 30, 1349., 



J. GRIMES. 



CLANKS! 

JJ LANK DEEDS and MORTGAGES 
for sale at the office of the Freeman. 



ITHARGE — A quantity of ground 
Litharge just received and for s.ilo by 
J. GRIMP2S. 
Booaton, Oct. 8, 1*49. 



BUKNiiNG F*LUID. 



'TMIE subscriber having made arrangements 
for procuring fresh Burning .Fluid, is 
ready to accommodate all those who usi' it, 

unite, for truth and right, and they [on reasonable terms. J. GRIMES, 
can do whatever they please. | IWon, Dec. 1st, ia«. 



f 



III 




71 





Truth invites full and free Discussion ; Error shrinks from all Investigation. 



ol. 4. 



jB oo nt on, March 20, 1850. 



THE NEW JERSEY 

I FREEMAN. 

WILL BE PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY 

JOHN GRIMES, Editor and Proprietor 
Jiooalon, Morris County, iYcui Jersey. 



TER M S : 
' Single copy 25 cents per annum, or for 
12 (lumbers , 
2 - 5 copies to one address for one dollar, 
w All cotmuuD.icat.ions must be post paid. 



lively; 



THE MONEY POWER, 
An extract froea a Lecture on Might and 
Sti^ht, by Rev. E. H. Chapin. 

"Vlf we consider the Money power atten- 
we thai! see that it is a two-edged 
itrumentaiity. Has it propelled that en- 
■priVg which has explored the oanh, and 
Vied the. elements, and dev. -loped countless 
■ms of use r.tjd beauty ? So, by Ihesje 
ry pursuits, lias it sensualize ! man, and by 
scuring every high ideal, closed him in 
th na iron materialism. It ha» excited in 
•n an insatiable lust for gain, 'which har- 
erli aped every moral restraint, and violated 
ery right, k has preserved peace, when 
ace. has been its interest; hut, fur the 
me re.'sori, it has bo a the prime agent of 
; if.-,. Indeed, its sypenyme isl"t'b4 sinews 
war." And it has caused the moat abom- 
able w*rs ; for they have\bcec urgtd in the 



ht of better concq\tion». \ Thoie w*s 
torn: thing" noble in old battle. A gallaM 
spirit throbbed in the bosdm, md generous 
Wood gushed from the velasi vhen sinews 
were b-raced against equal sieus, when 
Hector met Achilles, and it wa fair fight, 
and the best had ir. Ent there ; not oven 
the grandeur of evil in the wars o' the Mo:; 
ey po««r. When a nation, cnck.J in the 
liglu of civilization, with u!l the a$nities 6t 
culture around it ; nurtured by rnnrty.-s 
wliose blood has sealed the truth ; t.\;ght by 
prophi ts whose kind'ing vision has mde the 
future beautiful ; baptized into the loliest 
influences of religion — when S'.'ch a .uio:i, 
smitten with avarice, throws off its tipple 
and fine linen, ad becomes, a mighty H'. n i i 
war ag.iin^t s-me po •» si a ' timid people be- 
cause of their soil or their treausre, the in. 
flict which i' wag 's, Is not only wicked A: 
iriecn, and diil^rs from old battle as Miltow 
Satan differs from Mephit&topheles. \ 
I The Money power, upon the i sue of ta^ 
| VM ion, has striven for liberty. Does it stiiv 



Do not accuse me of over-heat, or fenati- ! 
.■ism. 1 have made no home-specifications I 
i«t my v. olds suggest what they ma)-. In the j 
prosecution if my design, J have simply ( 
demonstrated that we have not yet alt;;;, e-.i j 
the highest practice! manifestation of power. I 
In human conduct, Might is not yet Rrght. J 
The Money pnwer cannot effect this identity; 
because, as 1 have said, it sensualizes man. 
It wins him to embody his high' st ideal of 
excellence in a material good. Dazzled b\ 
'his, he has no spiritual prospect. To him 
there is no rea ity in this doctrine of abstaci 
right. It is all fme talk. It is poetry. He 
ilues not know that in so styling it, he ren- 
ders it the highest compliment ; for truth, in 
its most original expression, is always 'lyrical 
It is the prime mark of insanity, to treat the 
unreal as if it were actual ; therefore, hj wh<u 
sacriOc.es his interest to tiie right, is, in hi 
eyes, fo< iish and fanatical. He is uncon- 
scious that he is the monomaniac, the one- 
idea man — that there are other r- altties than 
those t at he knows. But he sees as far as 
he can He is deficient, not in motive, but 
in original power. Inwardly smitten by 
sensuality, he says and does only the sensual. 
We must explain a guod deal of human con- 
duct in this way. M ny things are done which 
ace not violations of individual conscience, 
'out c me from a lack of moral spontaneity. 

A >oui.g man goes into the world with 
every fresh and generous feeling. His notions 
of rectitude are high, his integ. ity unimpaired. 
He takes his place in life. He becomes en- 
gaged in b isiness. How soon it is evident 
that interest has warped him ! And yet 
there is no apparent s niggle in his bosom 
v.'i h the dictates of conscience. Ev«*Yibine 
'a done as a cool, calm matter cf course. 
It is e\ ident that love of money has worn 
a v. ay, or petrified, those delicate fibers whirh 
once were so quick in his Ivsom. He mav 
have yielded gradually— hut he yielded. 
It was a poten', all-absorbing charm that 
mastered him. And now, his is not a willed 
shutting i f the eyes, but a narrow ness arid 
dryness of vision. 

Another enters the po'itical arena His 
theory is based upon the grandest premises. 
His heart throbs with humane sentiment 
Liberty, equality, the rights of man, are 
staple themes of his eloquence. But how 
soon the patriot has become a par izan — the 
i .mtlnojiist a demagogue ! How crook- 
f dly his legislation compares with his prefix- 
sion3 ! We must explain this, by considering 
the center firm which he acts, ti e elevation 
f his view, and the scope of his hi rizon 
for liberty now ? I will not drive the questtVo must -consider how thick the Moi.ej 
tion into specifications^ too delicate" for thrower has breathed its spell upon him ; and 
present occasio', but 1 ask, are. "the-sinevvsV t iuterpiet his career asa dirtci,concicus. 
p{ w-ir" also the -mews of freedom ? Is IheH ful violation of right. 



power is nourish- d by and nourishes aelfsk- 
r.ess; which is the. master sin of the universe, 
the life of ail wrong. Seiuuhness ! which 



:> a va- 



line ; 



i;> u 



Miue !" "Jiy will," My 
interest," "My possession." It can never 
go b' yocd the limits of the individual :u:d 
I ' e S' ctional. It is absorbt nt and not difi'u- 
siv--, planetary and not heliacal. In fine, 
thcr> is no principle in it; and though it may 
famish occ ishm for, it never caij do a w< rt; 
of principle. It is mercenary and mean — 
acta from th.3 motives of punishment and 
rawar tvver cherish' s the grand conception 
of doing right for righteousness sake. Chris, 
tianity, the great reform movement, aimed 
directly at this central obstacle to human 
advancement. It rebuked it by the sullim 
exhibition of self-3acrifice ; and its Author'?, 
life and law, eneneiared the only element in 
which Might and Right become identical — 
Lov* ! Love, over-sweeping all sclfi h cun- 
aiderations, and conquering that narrow, sec- 
tional, per»< na! sentiment which has kindled 
all wrong between man and man. 

"If each man loved all men," says Sch'ller ; 
"then every individual would possess the 
world." And beautifully has he contras ed 
Love and Selfishness. " Egoism," says he, 
"erects its center in itself; Love plants it 
beyond itself, in the axis of the eternal All. 
Love intends unity : Egoism is solitude. ; 
Love is the co-ruling citizen of a flourishing 
republic; egoism a despot in a desolate crea- 
tion. Egoism sows for gratitude; ; Love is 
willing to reap ingratitude. Love bestows, 
Egoism lends — the same in the sight of the 
judging truth, whether it lends on the enjoy- 
ment of the presi-nt moment, or on the pros- 
pect of a martyr cro". n — the same whether 
the interest fall in this life ot the other." 
Involved with this Egoism then, unbaptized 
by lids Love, the Money power caunol iden- 
tify Might with the Right. 



No. 4. 

SOCIALISM. 

Th; progress of LibesalistB is irrcs : sli!>le. 
Lileralism cantx;t stop short of Socialism — 
a' true orgizalion of Society. It clearly 
manite-t to all ihiuldni? minds, thai a total 
reconstruction ol our systems of Industry 
and Property is the only efiectual remedy for 
existing erils. The visionary dreams of" 
Political Revolutionists in the last cen'ury, 
have become transformed into pa'pabh- con- 
victions. Men have outgrown their reverence 
tor paper constitution*. Mere modifications 
In government vv ill not secure theiut-gral 
development of bUinan nature in ail classes, 
v> hich the conscience cf the r.ge demands. 
Popular institutions are gocd, not an 
end, but as a means ; the means of securing 
the app'ication of tight to evejjv existing 
relation. The example of this republic has 
proved to the world that a Free Government 
.an and will be ruled by Finance and Com- 
merce, by Bankets and Merchants, by Com- 
bined Capital, by Industrial Feudalism, until 
through some truly radical policy, (radically 
constructive.) the tyranny of Rent, Interest, 
Speculation, Wages is broken. Hie vita' 
qne&tibn, after all, it is seen, is the fundamental 
one of Labor and Wealth, which tAust be 
settled, and settled according to the Laws of 
Divine Justice. 

There is not a poor drudge so stU|>ified by 
want and toil, f or a drone so elate with gain 
and folly, to whom intimations do not come 
of the change which must hiPRirrooght. — 
They are blind indeed who do not see that 
Liberalism is of God, and that its heaven- 
appointed end is Social lleorganization. It is 
the on'y possible mode of reconciling ad- 
verse claims, doing justice to conflicting par- 
ties, harmoni7iiiji discordant irrterests, really 
uniting liberty with Jaw, and Christianizing 
mankind. — Spirit of the Aoe. 



Money power leagu d on the side of the 
oppressed, with that gn at force whicii 
throbbed in Hampden's heart, and .poke 
from Sydney's scalibld, and rocked Faneuil 
Hall ? 

The. Money power ! — let some of its works 
bear witness to it. They do test fy, in an- 
cient blood -marks on the soil of Peru, in 
fresh bones that lie drifted in the jungh s of 
India. They shriek from the middle-passage 
of the slave-ship, they groan in cane and 
[rice fields ; and sharp fared men, and btutal- 
azed women, and dwarfed children, in mines 
and factories, say — "We, too, could speak, 
wiih pur v< hile bps, but wo dare not } 



'J his, then, is the erect cf the Money pow- 
up-on indiv idual cha act< i « It bcnualizes 
'makes a material excel ence the highest 
i'al, makes gain more desiiable than good- 
interest a quicker inntive than principle, 
anour rich men our first men. And if so 
W individuals, as an inevitable conse- 
lUfro go it is with communities, with 
•uitts. A people whose vision is narrow- 
ed l t consideration of mere material good, 
and ose action is from this spring, will not 
alia c no t identify Might with Right. 

Bu"iere is another, or rather there is a 
more Ucal cause of the separation of the 
Moucyower from the Eight. The Money 



HOW SHALL MAN BE REDEEMED? 

What is wanted is that no human bein" 
should grow up without a deep and frit nciH 
interest from the society around him; and 
that no onrf should feel himself the victiin 
of injustice, becuse society punishes the very- 
sin- which it teachfe; nay, drives men to 
commit. The world would be in a happiei 
condition if legblators spent half as much 
t me and labor o pi event crime as they do to 
3«»{*A it. The poor t#ed house* of erttmr- 
tnent ; aud such ty g'ves them houses ol' 
correction. Bencvo'mt institutions -ind re- 
form-it. ry societies perform b it a limited and 
temporary use. They do not reach the 
g;o .nd»o;k of evil; and it is reproduced 
too rapidly for them to keep oven thes irac 
healed. The natural spontaneous influences 
of society .-hou'd be such as to supply n en 
vyflh healthy motives, and give full free p!aj 
to the affections and faculties. It is horrible 
to see our jbutig men goa cd on by the fierce 
specu'iitiiig spirit of the age — from the con- 
tagion of which it is almost impossible to 
esctpe — and then see them tenured into 
madness or d iven to crime by fluctuating 
changes of lite money market, 'l ite you:; ; 
soul is as it were efitangled in the tHurciies.- 
machiuecf a falsely constructed soc et\ ; the 
steam he had no hand in raising whirls him 
hither and thiti.tr ai d it isatuge'.her a lot'ery 
chauco whether Uciuihvs orpivpcis him. — 
Mrs. Child. 



Socialism is reviving in England, under 
new auspices. Even the established Church 
is giving i s sanction and pecuniary aid 
to Mr. Morgan's scheme of founding 
" Church of England self -supporting Villages,'" 
or Communites. This is g'.od. Let each 
of the sects take up the Community idea, and. 
try it with their own members, since they aro 
afraid of its infi.ier.ee when attempted by 
persons independent of their control. Let us 
see vibicu' -denomination has the principles 
and moral genius best adapted to maintain a 
true social state— one frac from ignorance, 
poverty and vice. Then we cab all choose^ 
live best. This will be a good test of merit. — 
1'raclical Chris-ian. 



Every experiment, by multitudes or by 
individuals, that has a sensual and a Svlfish 
aim, uill fail. As long as our civilization is 
esseut ally poe of property, of Luces, of e\- 
elusiveness, it will be mocked by delusions. 
Our riches ill leave us sick ; there will be. 
bitterness in our LiugMer y and our wine w ill 
burn, our mouth. Only that good ptofita 
which we can taste with all doors open, and 
which saves all men. — Emerson. 



There is a wide and mournful need < f cr.n- 
lidence in 1'ae omnipptence ef morel truth. 
I'hings .ire deemed impossible, for the- >ns:<;iit 
accomplishment of which only that sitnph 
energy of will i.-i required, which a : ; ure faitli 
(fl the vitality of, leoial truth vrouj iaumto^ 
diately create . — I'mhu* 



Ill IIMH I — 



none without sin, and therefore hctye who 
have^ot contributed to the pvnerai sumo) 
impurity. Am! the rich [save doSe the e r *' :lt_ 
est wrong in this, because they ha* e taken 
from the mass, the means of promoting lhe.ii 
highest good. There is, and can I)!', i i 
wealth to throw away, and the ho'irdiiig of it 
is almost equivalent t<7jt* wasie. We, there 
fore, claim ih ; right for. the State to levy 
'iupon the pic-pie sufficient for the degree o! 
Education, &c. It is probably from the pen j w | uca tioa which we advocate. , y 
of L. A Hine, of Cincinnati. The following While considering the means of promoting 



EDUCATION. 1 
In a late number of G-o,go Evan's paper, 
«« Young America," we find an Address to the 
public reported by the last Industrial Congress 
of Laud Reformers. It is an able document, 
replete w ith impor'ant truth on the subjects 
01 Land Reform, the unrighteous advantages 
of Capital over Labor; Social Relations 



is tbo-conc'udinj: part of the Address. 

Education. This is the source, of all that 
is good as well as all that is evil. Locke 
taid that "of all nv n we meet, nine parts in 
tin are what they are, good or bud, bytbeir 
education." This is true the world over. 
The culprit as he enters his dungeon knows 
that, lie has been victimized by evil inflUBWB.es; j 
and the murderer as he ascend? the scaffoldd 
is a witness against the sinful circumstances I 
that are yet ruining our youth. 

But this subject needs no prolonged argu- 
ment. Wherever the people are most truly 
instructed, there we find Eke greatest equality 
and the purest fraternity. We bave reason 
to believe the whole family of man is gradu- 
ally advancing to a full pviMJon of truth, 
itiiA that Efucadbn is c^'culaied at Us! to 
<e-\\i'»\;z:i 'II and secure the highest good ol 
teverv human being. 

We c Mi.rvatula'e ourselves on the extra- 
iordi.*My exertions that are being made all 
o/er ihe l»iid f>r the advancement of public 
instructor.. From 'h" North to tl) South, 
from t':e East to (i>e West, on-' universal de- 
imiel g -es forth for the better education o! 
the people Louisiana and Michigan, Wis- 
c. 'iasin au I Virginia a 'e awake, and the day 
i* n< ar at hand when eeirhr'y child will enjoy 
free of expense <he eomplete and harmonious 
•development of his whole bdog. On the 
<v her hand, we rejoiee that while educ lio" 
is advancing th -1 public morality is improving. 
We wili not pause here to prove from a 
volume of stat--tie.s which we have at com- 
mand, that crimes have been for the pas: 
fifteen years rapidly on the decrease. 

We, as the Induvrial Oohsr-sa of the 
United States, insist, in behalf of the voutl 
ol' our land, on the fu!'est iducaton i' at ih« 
limeSJJill permit. They arp pii itled to this 
i y the rights of their eNtsfovce. and it is a> 
infinite wrong to rifus-' it. They have facul- 
ti- s to admire an t adore, anil instruction in 
l'i<» works of nature, both in their materia: 
and spiritual departmen s, is essential t>» thf 
use of their powers. It has been well n- 
marked, that if we refuse education to thr 
child, we annihilate as 'o him all the beauty 
aid grand ur of the universe Winch he wa. 
<T''ated to enjov. In so far as refuse educa- 
tion to the child, we cut off his existence, 
destn y b\i happin-ss, and limit his being it 
this life. 

We utterlv condemn that partial system o 
<-duea'io:i that p-ovides one kind for the pro- 
fessional m in and another for the mechanic 
and farmer. All should be fully instructed, am 
when this is done we do awav with th? ne- 
•cese.ify of law, lawyers, and professional and 
Sttecir.il m"n generally. All should earn the; 
own living by their own hand-i, and all should 
Sw literary and .se'n-n'ifti men, lawyers, doe 
•t -rs, priests, prophe's and posts. We need 
-not stop short of this, for the human mind i- 
■capa'nle of such instruction, au«l it should b 
provided. Thoughts j)ta>Wfno!ions should bt 
IfVee as air, ar.d fully enjoved by all. Rut 
the* ruhr* of society say that it cannot hi 
afforded ; b will require t-o much money tu 
defray the expense of such a svstem. We 
reply that there is money enough in tiie work 
for this end, and its possessors have no right 
to expend it except for the common good 
The difficulty is, that the peop'e iove gold 
better than they love human souls, and against 
th : 3 unfortunate sentiment we are contending 
The people think again that their wea'th be- 
long* to them, and that neither justice nor 
benevolence demands its expenditure for the 
good of the children of others, as though the 
helpless youth were blamable for being born 
of poor parents. Here we call attention to 
the fact m mtioned at the beginning of this 
address, that we nre individually responsible 
for the vices, crimes and low condition of 
the people. If we are not perfect, w« haw 
contributed to the evil influences which per- 
vade society and form the young mind. 

The dergym m as he ascends the. pulpit 
with the name of God on his lip and a thou- 
sand do'lars on his back, is a sinn-*r that i* 
wasting the people's substance in high sala- 
r es which he do^s not expend for the public 
•£Oi..l. Fie is one who gives countenanc- 
and sanctifies the odious monopolies that rob 
the people ami force them into debasement 



SECRET SOCIETIES. in tl.eir breathing, 'specially when they walk 1 

lb. n. V. D OVdcn,of New York, once a faster when they ascend a hill 



Education, we would invite the people to 
eanvass the rvie.ri;s of th;; Language Reform 
v. hich is making considerable progress in 
Europe and America. If it possesses ha'f 
the value claimed for it, it should receive 
immediate attention. 

Bn: intimately counseled with the subject 
of education is the treatment of criminals ; 
for tha* trea'ment should be of discip inaiy Oil 
educati nal character. We advise, then, at 
ence, that our penitentiaries and jails be 
converted into vast educational institutions, 
where those whom society !:;is_-neg!ccied may 
have this neg'eet partially repaired. I would 
u''t thank society for giving inc a bad charac- 
ter, and then incarcerating me for the legiti- 
mate fruits of that character. I owe society 
no thanks for'giving me a good education, tor 
that is mv ritrht ; but I would owe her a 
hearty curse for miseditcnting me, and a 
double anathema for punishing me f>>r my 
sins. The culprit, commits a crime on ike 
suite principle that Shakespeare wrote his 
tragedies — that of a mental .develop ■ m-nt 
adapted to the crime as his was adapted to 
the drama. • We cannot escape this enneiu- 
•v'on ; and we are d'uiblv wrong for inflicting 
pun upon an offender. We should educatpj 
■ nd raise him al ove the condition of an evli 
>ioer, and he will become a good member o' 
<oeiety. We pun ; sh him and make him 
worse ; we. excite hi< malice and send him 
from our prison walls breathing vengeance 
rul s'nntrh er. Indivi 'uals who are dwpgfr- 
i is metjnbera of society .'should be seat to 
educational hospitals, and 1 lie arbitrator need 
-iot be verv striet in inquiring into such eases, 
or the simple fact that one is constantly in- 
iuring his fellow man, is #ufficient to prove 
him in n el of the parental care of society. 

In conc'usion, wo ask every one to con- 
sider the g-e.it truth that society has the 
lower of relieving itself of (he evils of pov- 
erty, degradation crime. Shall she do it ? 

The Fourth Industrial Congress of tlir» 
United Staffs now tak« s leave of the public 
mtil its next session, at Chicago, when it is 
hoped a large delegation of true men will 
invoke the public attention to the cnu*e of 
•ruth and human good — -to Libert^', Enualiiy 
ind Fraternity, and above all to the God of 
itimttii love, who is the Soul and center of 
h »gress, let all our hopes of human redemp- 
tion be directed. 



distinguished -'Free Mason, i.iva, "Acorn 
(nation that secretly selects its favorites, 
Secretly a 'opts its measures for their advance- 
ment, and has its secret communication from 
one end of the continent to the other, must 
lie adverse to the wholesome action of a free 
i ■epul liran government. I re pi at, that it :.- 
the cju y « f a'! who value the cqunlit . , 
liberty and happiness of our republic, to en- 
deavor to destroy the influence of such asso- 
ciations." 

Gen. Washington, in a letter to Mr. Jay, 

says. 'The self eieated societies which have 
tplead themselves over this country, have 
been laboring incessantly to sow the seeds of 
distrust, jealousy and discontent, hoping 
thereby to effect ^ome revolution in the go^ 
einment ; and that that they have been the 
fomcnters of the RrumyUania insurrection, 
admits of no doubt." 

But not only are secret societies danger- 
ous, b it all socities whose effect is rmstori- 
oits; tie- whole history of man is proof of 
this position ; in no age or country has tlvre 
ever appeared a mysterious association, w hich 
did not, iu time, become a public nui-ance. 

Pnif rfwor E obinsop . 

In general, every association which has 
mvs'erv for its basis, of an oath of scen e- , 
is a league of robbers against society, a league 
divided in its very bu^om into knaves and 
diipei ; or in other words, agents and inslru- 
m nits. It is thus we ought to judge those 
modern clubs, und >r the name of lliuminists, 
Marti- i sis. Free Masons, and Jdesmerites. 
Tre se seci -ties are the follies and deceptions 
of the ancient C ahalisU, Mag cians, Orphies, 
jjfc'., who, says Plutarch, led into errors of 
condderable magEitude, not only individuals, 
but kings and nations. — Yolney. 



RICH MEN. 
Great wealth is a misfortune, because it 
nakes generosity impossib'e. Ttiere can be 
i > generosity where there is no sacrifice, 
ind a man who has a million of d- 1 ars, 
hough he gives half of it away, no more 
nakes a sacrifice, than (if I may make such 
a supposition,) a dropsical man, wlmso .-kin 
ioh!s a hogshead of water, makes a sacrifice 
.viie i he is tapped, for a barrel. We i- in a 
ic :! hierjeonditi n after the operation than 
heforeiit^R a donkey would be considers: 
i fool amonf^donkeys. for desiring to doubh 
he tfurden of gpld'that is already breaking 
nis back, I see noV^why the short eared vari- 
ety should be judsqd by a dtflereftt rule. 
The literal declaration'.. that i'- is easier for a 
:amel to go through the ««ye of a needle ihau 
for a rich man to enter into the kingd- m oi 
heaven, not only stands upon sacred author- 
ity, but is confirmed by all human reasoning. 
Knr, what kingdom of heaven can possibly be, 
from Which love and sympathy, and the 
tenderness of a common brotherhood are 
excluded ? And the man who boards stiper- 
iuous wealth while there is famidiing in the 
next s'reet ; the man who revels in luxuries 
•vhile the houseless and breadless are driven 
from his door; the man who through an OS- 
lentation of literature, wa'ls himself in with 
libraries which he cannot read, while thou- 
sands of children around him are destitute 
even of school books, the very seed-wheat of 
all knowledge, such a man has no love noi 
sympathy, nor feeling of brotherhood for his 
rac i ; and therefore, go where he will, the 
kingdom, of heaven must be his antipode. 
Oiu point in the circumference of a revolving 
wheel may as well attentat to overtake th 



opposite point, as he to reach that kingdom 
The casting off of his loved burden will elone 
.a- A crime. So of every individual; there i*. enable Lim to attain it. — Horace Mann. 



PROGRESS. 
The world is entering upon a new moral 
cycle. The horrid leign of war and conquest 
is drawio'i to a clo-e. That domination oi 
wealth, also, which has crushed th" head and 
imbruted th* heart of the millions, in order 
to subject their bodies to unresisting and un- 
remitting toil, will soon share both the de- 
thronement and the infamy of that sovereign 
brute Force, whose p'ace it has supplied. The 
discovery's oi science and the progress »f phi- 
losophy have so enlarged and dignified the 
language of the priest and the moralist, that 
th< ir b other of the old monastery or conclave 
could now hardly tinders' and them. NineV 
teen twentieths of all that was he'd to be 
know'edge, in the time of the schoolmen, i*. 
sow knowo to be folly; nineteen twenteths 
of all that a Free Slate holds lobe fatiiotism 
now, was sedition or high treason four centu- 
ries ago ; and nia 'teen twentieths of all that 
the Church holds to be religion now, was in- 
fidelity or atheism then. Men have made the 
great discovery that Ethies and Theology, 
though founded uoon unchaugable truths, are 
-till progressive sciences, not less t'nm Phys- 



2. The pulse is rendere I more frequent 
and irregular both by alclmhol and meat. 

3. A feverish heat is generated in the sys- 
tem iu virtue of both alchohol and nuat; 
person arc vw.de more thinttti by the me of 
bo:h of these substances 

4. Ro h substances equally induce what is 
called the digestive fever, width embodies all 
the sunptomsof fever in a moderate degree. 

Secondly, Alchoho'ic drinks lay the found- 
ation for occasional disturbances in the sys- 
tem, of different kinds and grades, as bilious 
bowel affections, &c, and s» do ilesh meals. 
In the production of colds, animal food is far 
the most efficient. This point is established 
incontestf.bly by well tried experience. 

Thirdly, Animal food tends quite as strong- 
ly as the moderate use of a'choholic liquors 
to weaken and disturb the balance of action 
between the secerning and excerning systems 
of vessels, by which some persons are made 
leaner and others fleshier than they should be. 

Fourthly. With about equal potency, ai- 
choliol and flesh meats weaken the force of 
the capillaries of the system, on which healthy 
action so much depends. This is a species 
of evidence that comes within the observa- 
tion of evcy person, for it is exhibited by 
that prominent mirror the face, as was show n 
in the last section, on the analy-is of svmpy 
touts, under congestion. As is represe nt*/ ,! 
in that article, when the body is in itiTcalthv 
state, and the littleminute v ssels w/hj t -h con- 
stitute a latge part of the body, /re strong , 
and active, they keep themselves/ so habitu- 
ally contracted that nothing but i\w thinner, j 
pure, nutritious portion of the bloifid can pas* j 
.hem; the eoaiser red globules, ^vhich serve 
no purpose in the nutritive prnce>s,and w hich 1 
h ighten the color of the parts where they J 
circulate, are prohibited cn ingress or passage, f 
Now whatever weakens these important, y a ,1 
indispensable little, agents, so that they are j 
habitually obliged to dilate sufficiently to | 
carrv the coarse globules of blood, and ihui 
give a man, woman or child a red face, is 
sapping the \>-rv foundation of permanent 
health awl long Kfe. Alchohol and aniroii 
food alike perpetrate this, high-handed n i.i 
chief, Many individuals can now he found* ' 
the ranks of ajchoholie teetotalers, and \t 
In their pledge of total abstinence from stnt.g 
ifrink, who nevertheless rorrv a bloomiig 
cheek, to which nothing hut a pure vegetaMe 
/diet wijf give a safe and salutary bleeding. 

Fifty! y, A flesh diet, In common with he 
uso of/strong drink, impairs the tone pf he 
nutritive apparatus by which its ahi!it;t<» 
work/up raw material, and manufaclur it 
into /mnd, well-finished vital fabric, is din'n- 
ishe/, and ■ f course the appetite or calfo 
foo/ is satisfied with a less qfianitv ofii 



rayma'erial. This has given rise to the 
(ajt-n opinion that animal food contains 
n/iiinent than vevt table. 
Sixthly, I will notice but the folic 
1'idence of the similarity of the eff-< 
tiimal diet w ith those of the use of aleh 



lore 



progress, the present outgrows the past. Th 
great heart of humanity is heaving with th 
hopes of a blighter da v. — Horace Mann 



i do y or Geologs . Tinder the sublin e law of/rom the mass of others that might be alec 

'The total a andonmrnt of an habitual >e < 
animal food is attended with nil the peitex 
ing, oneowifortabie and distressing diilk'tie 
that f How the giving up an habhu il ti c 
strong drink. A change from oic kind tsha 
i>lt 7iutii;:Knt lo another has no such fee 
It is only when the constant use ofon 
stimulating substance is abandoned, thaiudl 
difficulties are experienced. 



ANIMAL FOOD AND ALCflOHOI 
The following statement, showing t|< 
tion between animal food and dch< d/o< 
drinks, is fro n a work by Dt. Isaac J%Btj 
i phssicau of extensive experienc 

Facts. — ! am not goins over the erlmon 
ground of argument for judgment again/meat 

t, for a number of reasons vvhieh 1 /d "ol 
stop to delail, but will simply ofler few of 
ihe evidences that, have fallen underft' own 
ib9f rvaiion, of the analogy between t (fects 
of ihe moderate use of akhohotk li<] ft on ilte 
human sjs/cm, and those of animal ]«■ 

Fir*t, Animal food cree.les a rf.Wsh di- 
- thesis in common with alchoho'/v'W'' 
of which are, 

1. An impaired s'ate. of the /spiralorj- 
function. P rsons wdio use ah 
more, eo: r: one more oxyg -n in 
than the same individuals d 
make no use of it. The same i 
ing animal food. This, han I 
the diving h II. A man can 
der water in a diving lu ll, 
luantity of air when using 
ban he can under the inllneuM ll>'\b meat 
And he can al»o subsist fe« »>* 
sa rie quantity of air by ntfn«ng bom the 
ose of alchohol, than by ^ ['■ A,u1 , 5"*? 
who have abandoned the u/ f animal food, 
find » vet} marked and c/fortable change 



1 bn atl 
f©n time, 
hen they 
ie respect- 
proved by 
longer uu- 
Ih the same 
table diet, 



POKE EATING. 
The .lews, Turks, and Arabians, n all 
they who observe the precept of absi 
from blood and swine's flesh, are inn 
more free from disease than the Chr-t 
more espec ally do they escape those ]) 
bria of the medical ait, Scrofula, got, < 
sumption, &c. The Turks cat great. pntijj 
its of honey an I pastry, and mucos a 
they also eat largely and are indolent y 
not suffer from dyspepsia, as the CIri a 
do. The swine-fed natives of Chart* < 
sufler greater devastations from a jnin I 
bercular disease of the bowels, (dyse r 
than from any other cause. Under m; « 
observation, afld in my own experience o 
persons who abstain fiom sw ine's th a 
infinitely more healthy and free from Mo- 
dular diseases, dyspepsia and coi nf 



tion; while in those districts, and am 
classes of men where the pig m 
chief article of diet, tubercle in 'all it 
of eruptions, sore b gs, bad eyes, al 
and various othei similar aflections w 
not appear on the surface pi the bt. d; 
prevail. — Parry on Diet 



THE FREEMAN. 



BOONTON, MARCH 20, 1850. 



RUM AND TOBACCO. 
The idea that tobacco and other norcotics 
fcgve much to do w ith forming »nd perpetu- 
ating the appetite for alchoholic liquors, did 
not originate with u>. If there is any fanati- 
cal uitraism ebout it, we have plenty of com- 
pany^!) I the best of company. We hazard 
nothing in the asseition that the Temperance 
cans.! is ia a great decree to remain stationary 
until more light is disseminated among the 
people on the deleterious influence of tobacco, 
tea nnd coffee art'd oil er unnatural stimulants. 
The pri dispo .ing inflm; ncc of llo se drugs li- 
the use of a!;- h oh o li^ Jjpi ors , and the bar- 
rics which they present to the temperance 
Reform, are so clearly demonstrated to bur 
blind, that we have not power to make any 
flort for the temperance cause, in an associ- 
ation that proh(bits'di$cass\<>i\ on these points 
Reader, if you think these narcotics have lit- 
tle or uo agency in producing and perpetuat- 
ing the evils of diu'.kenesi, and therefore are 
not proper subjects for investigation at tem- 
perance meetings, read the following testi- 
mony of experienced an 1 well known laborers 
in the Temperance Reformation. 

"Tobacco dries the mouth ;ind nostrils, 
benumbs the senses of smell and taste, im- 
p..i: • the hearing and eyesight ; it creates 
thirst and loss of appetite, and in lh ; s and 

0 h -r ways lays the foundation for other de- 
grees of intemperance. 

" Rum and tobacco often <ro hand in band 
%n the work of destruction. — lies. B. I. Lane. 
j< " Its effects are inebriating ; it is so closely 
fcllied to intoxicating liquor?, that its confirm- 
ed votaries may with propriety be considered 
& species of drunkards." — Dr. Macnish. 

1 ''Smoking an ; die wing tobacco, by render- 
ing water aud simple liquors insipid to the 
tase, dispose very much to the stronger stim- 
ulus of ardent spirits. The practice of smolc- 
■iii: cigars, has, in every part of the country, 
[been followed by a general use of brmdy 
and water asa common drink, more especially 
by that class who have not been in the habit 
pf drinking wine or malt liquors. — Dr. Rush. 

"It is unquestionably the greatest obstacle 
to the progress of temperance ; and never 
will this cause triumph, never will alehoholic 
drinks be discarded as a beverage, unlit to- 
bacco ceases to be used us a luxury. They 
must both die the satae death, and be iatered 
in the same grave. 

<: That the us3 «f tobacco bears heavilv 
against the cause of temperance, will be ob- 
vious to everv ooe who is not wili ng to be 
deceived. It prostrates a maa, and no bund 
will (fit him up like that of alchohol ; or, in 
other words, tobacco produces lassitude, and 
alchohlic drinks will afford temporary relief. 
Dysp • psia, produced by tob.icco, is reme- 
died, f>r the time, being, by some alchoholic 
stimu'ant. When uature is bleeding under 
ti'.e lash of tobacco, she pleads for alchohol 
to bind up her wounds. 

"It is as rational to expect that the cause 
of temperance will triumph in China, wliiie 
they continue their opium, 'as to expect its 
triumph in America, while we continue oi r 
tobacco. The friends of Temperance tra 
asleep. The enemy is laughing to scorn our 
feeble attempts to destroy intemperance, 
while we leave untouched one. of its princi- 
pal sources. 

"1 tremble for Washington: and who use 
tobacco. Every fiend of temperance who 
will carefully investigate this subject, will for 



"1 have my fears for the tafety r,f il e 
Temperance cause through the insidcus infiu. 
ence of tobacco. There c;;n le no doubt 
that this vile weed originates maty diseases) 
causes premature death, ard much inh mper- 
aece. It is my conviction thtrt while the us 
of tobacco continues itolrmpiTitr.ee v ill ton 
tinue to curse the world. The use of tobac- 
co leads to the use of intoxicating thinki 
They are all of one fami'y — E. C. Dtlcvan. 

'•That alchohol, tobacco, and tea and cflee 
deserve to be thrown together into the sam< 
category, and held in common as poisonous 
substances, prejudicial in their effects up<" 
'be human system, there ia ample authority 
for believing and asserting. — Dr. Jerininris. 




Alchohol lias been styled the high pries 
of Death : Tobacco is one of the deacons. 



The man v, ho allows Jiiiiiself to g t intox 
itatf d vith «ng'-r, does as much to discrt. 
the peace and harmony of the community as 
he, who gets intoxica ed with rum. Both wh 
abuse their b-st friends, a d inflict lasting 
injury on their own souls. 



THE OHIO STANDARD. 
$f5»Amqng the evident signs of advance- 
ment towards a more pi rfect state of socio 1 .; 
and the advantages of a universal brother- 
hood, none stands more prominent and is 
more cheering than the. increased and increas- 



progress m out 



a' d proclaim an exterminating war against it, 
nailing his colors to the mast. — £ I. Lane. 



ing devotion to truth and 
newspaper's. While the old papers, religion 
and political, have introduc d into their col 
umns a great deal of matter which discovers 
the exist nee of a power somewhere that is 
driving them up to at least a part of their 
duty, the newly established papers, if not got 
up (or tn«> purpose of reforming man, make 
that object a paramount business. Among 
the new papers devoted to universal truth 
and human progress, we have perused with 
great satisfaction The Ohio Standard, 
pubi>hed at Columbus, the capital of Ohio, 
by Gale k. Cleveland, at two dollars a year. 
Wc have only room for the following portion 
of its prospectus. Its contents are in har- 
mony with this expression of its character. 
We wish it abundant success. 

" Most intelligent persons, of every sec . 
creed and patty, are an'icipati.g a poriod, 
shortly to arrive, when war and strife shall 
pea*.", and when men nationally and individ- 
ually shall dwell together on this earth in 
one universal brotherhood. And if the Chris- 
tian doctrine of immortality, and of the in- 
timate connection between this and the spir- 
itual world be true, it is the. highest duty of 
the Christian, as it is the noblest work of the 
man, to be active in. hastening this period id 
universal benevolence and good will. But it 
is evident that Before this stale of love an 
harmony can be realized, the world must pass 
throgh a preparatory or educational st»ge ; 
an I to him who is at all skilled in in the signs 
of the times, it is clear that the civilize I ptti- 
tions of mankind are at this time passing 
through a period of transition from a lower to 
a higiier sphere of in ii vidua] and social life." 



SLAL](M— 4ER HOUSES. j 
A late New York paper contains the fil- 
lowing priragtaph, wheriti is much 'focd for 
refiectiou:' — ' 

"Petitions are in circulation f>>r the re- 
moval < f the shiiighter-hotii.es from t^eii 
present location tar up town, < n the bordeis 
f the river, 'i his is a most desirable mea$- 
. ire, and would confer a great hem fit upon 
the ccmniuni y. .Not only are they a decid- 
d nuisance, but these sf*ught< riny estihlh-h- 
ments are constan ly open, ami children and 
vouth are stimulated by curiosity to witness 
the most demoralizing spectacles of blood 
:nd slaughter." 

Is it possible to present a stronger argument 

■gainst eating the mangled csircasosof animals 

• han the above ? If flesh-meat wns origin- 

iljy ftesrgned for the food of man,. some body 

nu-l demoralize themselves in preparing it 

or our tables. Can any one suppose for a 

noment, that the Crea'or intended man so to 

Ive that brutalizing scenes of b'ood and 

slaughter should constitute a part of his ne- 

•f ss-iry duties? Compare this hu'cheriug 

business with that of tiding the soil, Culli- 
es 7s 

ntir.g esculent roots, beautiful grains, fra- 
:nt flowers, plucking and eating delicious 
ruits. All this is calculated to refine, pnoble 
md exalt the minds of children and of youth, 
low often do we mistake man's depravity 
or God's design ! — Waier-Cure Journal. 



VEGETARIAN COiS V LNTiON . 
Tiif. American Yeoetai-.j an Cosvt: Tio.f 

w ill be lield in' New Yoik, on t'/.c le;f < : y <>^ 
May n x'. It is <>pect»d*tLftt fiieW*s luni 
F.ngland, SYotlai.d, and cthrr p'acs, will bis 
n aittndance, end il is l<-r<d ij.ut ; il .n ( i r 
• »n count'}', v>\\o *ympa.liize with lliese 
views, will be present. Drs. Grtl.am, Akotr, 
Metcalf, and others residing in difeser.t Slated 
will doubth ss uke au active part in this 
first American Vegetarian Convention. 



$3=1 1 is said, and is doubtless true, thai 
poor women in the Christian city of New 
York, are compelled to make shirts for two 
shillinjs and eight pence a dozen, less lhar. 
ihrek cents a piece, while the relig on of New 
York is kept dressed up in the most costh 
arid imposing pomposity. 



WASHING MADE EASY. 
It is confidently stated, in a Boston paper, 
that by the following proce s, one half of the 
usual labor of washing clothes may be saved. 

Take 1 pint of spi'i's of turpentine, 1 pint 
o" alchohol, 2 ounC'S of hart-horn, 1 ounce 
of gum camphor, mix and shake them well 
together; then to one quart of soft soap add 
three table sp onfuls of this mixture. Wet 
the clothes first, then soap them, (with the 
mixture,) lay th m in a tub and pour \>arm 



water on them ; let them remain halFan hour 
the sake of lemperunise, abs'ain from tobacco* 1 "or more, then squeeze them well out of that 

water, soap them again and put ou to boil, 
then finish as usual by rising, &c. 



$3=11 is stated that there are S00,000 less 
horses used in E- g'and now, than there were 
before Rail Roads were used. 



{^Progress. — The Supreme Court ofj 
Louisiana has decided lhat colored people 
can be admitted as witnesses in the - Courts 
of that State. 



{jtgVThe Spanish Government is said to 
hav • ordered the emancipation of the slaves 
in Cuba, in case of an invasion of that Island. 



Baltimore Fi - b. 2Sth. The Grand L-odtre 
of I. O. of Od I Fellows have passed resolu- 
tions protesting against the decisions of the 
United States Lodge, and declining to send 
delegates to the meeting at Cincinnati, They 
a'so protest against the decision dividing th- 
New York Lodges into two divisions. — Sun. 



Dentistry. 

G. P. MARTIN. M. D.. Surcical and 
Mechanical Dentist, • herebv notifies the 
inhabitants of Boonton and vicinity, that he 
will be at the oflice of Dr. Grimes on the 
first Saturday in each month, where, h" will 
continue on the lbl'o»ing Mond*iv, and will 
he ready to perform any operations in his 
line, in n satisfactory manner and on reasona- 
ble f rms. Stioul I the Weather be stormy, 
he will attend on the second Saturday instead 
the first. His regular office ia oppssite Odd 
Fellows Hall, Main street, Patterson. 



NEW 

COPPER, THY, AND SHEET-IRON 
FACTORY. 

Jl k W. GRAY respectfully inform their 
friends, the inhabiinnts of Boonton and 
vii-inity, that they have commenced the above 
business in Boonton, on Main stre- 1, opposite 
the Free Church, and are ready to do all kinds 
of work in their liiv. They intend to keep 
on hand a general assortment of 

Tin Ware, Stoves, &c 

Having had experience i» their business, 
they warrant nil w >rk done irv the best man- 
ner and on the most reasonable tenns. 



Books. 

Thev have also on hand, for sale, most of the 
Uoonlon, March lu, I8a0. 



gt> PERIODICALS PUBLISHED BY 
FOWLERS WELLS, 121 Nassau street, 
New York — 

Phnnological Journal, $1 a year, monthly. 
Water-Cure Journal, $1 a year, momhlji 
Spirit of the Age, $2 a year, w e< kly . 

These works j together with numercus 
Books on Phrenology, Physiology, ar.d kin- 
dred suljects, devoied to human progress, 
should be extensively read. 

A SYSTEM OF VEGETABLE DIET, 
as sanctioned by Medical Men and by Expe- 
rience in all ages, including Vegetable Cock- 
iry, by Dr Win. A. Alcott. Published and 
for sale by Fowlers &. Wells, 13.1 Nassau st. 
N. Y. This is one of the most important 
books ever published. We cannot see hov 
any honest, truth-loving man or woman ca 
read it and hesitate between the pure prodiu 
'ions of the earth end the fruiUof the s'.-iugl 
ter house. It cannot be read without profit 

C^THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOi 
iCAL JOURNAJ..— This valuable Joum 
is published by Fowlers & Wells, 131 N; 
sau street, N. Y., at one dollar a ve 
monthly. It shou'd be read by all in 
of intellectual progress. The No. fc r Mailt, 
contains as usual a variety of matter bot* 
interesting and useful. / 

I (^PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTIo/ 

cohsiddered with relation to Dietetics,/ 
Andrew Combe, M. D. This is a v., 
cheap and valuable book, published by Fov 
ler& Wells, 131 Nassau street, New York 
The writings of Dr Combe, however, ncei 
no recommendation. 

^OYOUNG AMERICA.— This p| 
which has been suspended some time, is 
out again. We are glad to see it, and 1 

who have the means w ill §ee to it lb: 
ies no: languish for want of su; 
[.and Reform is too important a subject 
be lost sightjOl'. It is issued by J. C. Hf 
well, 142 Nassau street, N. Y. George 
Evans is still the Editor. 

LIBERTY PARTY PAPER. — This 
the organ of that branch of the Libert v p i 
called the Liberty League, published byJi 
Thomas, Syracuse, N. Y. at $2 a year. ? 
an excellent paper, and contains many tl.i 
: hat all people should know. 



gc%»A REVIEW OF THE CAU? 
A N D CONSEQUENCES O F TH E MI 
ICAN WAR : By William Jay. This is 
most important book lutely published ori' 
subjects of War and Slavery, and shoul 
sown broad cast over this land. It is a 
decimo volume, of 353 pages. Every 1 
of truth should interest himself, in the 
lation of it. The price it is sold at, for 
itous circulation, puts " it in the power 
man to do something. It is .as follow sf. 

^Gratuitous Circulation. — Wi 
friends of the object devise means to 
ibis work widely in ev<ry town.? As(l 
have been given, for the purpose, it vfy 
furnished, (though °"'.y 0 .V wholesale 
gratuitous circulation,) at rates much efcea 
than even, unbound tracts, viz : Six cop 
for $1, or 100 for $15, and ou poorer paj 
for $13. Apr'ly to W. C. Brown, 21 C 
hill, B 'stoe; Wm. Harued, 61 John si 
New York; Joseph Scattergood, 8-1 . 

ingle, 75 
covers,. 



! HI?iG QQ.OP SHALL PER1S.U. 

•Nn'hiag «nod shall ever perish, 
Only the rairitypt shall tie ; 
.. TAitL wbieti men and apgels chtrisj), 



p. <-•!'> nre wlipf v Godforsaken, 
All i t^derrri iniag* bear ; 

I.o . e ?<> !.)<t but kI.oi.IiI awaken 
ftyjj^M; Smalts a brcltipt'<> care. 

ivv a mind but has i's miction — 
J' v.iT of ..working \w> or wtal ; 

So il.gr'ded hone's condition, 

JJjt the world bis wfij.Mii may fee]. 

W'> -,, s r>f in 'm«s, words of \varni»«j, 
Deem not tlsou msyV-sj't alt in vui i, 
E'.f i tii<;si> thy coun.vl bi-urnii-.t^, 
•fcQft siail they return a-iain. » 

Though !hr» mind absorbed in pleasitft 
11 *■ Isolds tli 5 voice of go,im s ' I light, 
Still doth faitefu memory treasure 
, . fVhat St fiMtV® se_>»ijd to slight. 

^af.s.y, Mfeu we have patsfed ifway, 
fir*! peVjjjipsj a spirit WrckelSy ! " 
Guide £i biwtbBi" led a$iiay. 

?v* 'it rtn ijlet !:uf. is r*»cord"d ; 
.' ^^ot'ifwcjra -nMt hag' its weight; 
<pvf*pfe*y,j,;itf* regarded — uj\ 
,. Otfiro'ae puhishe * aoom or laraV 



As a thnjjj or I ti e won!) ; 
l?v(;r« !etfnl fbutis crpateytC ', 
lias its p*r'- to play on earth. 



I 



From The J-mjuuil of Commerce^ 

f,ii:ii produces lovf to God and man, 
Sav, & ;io, ij not that th • C cm pel plan } 
The (jj.->:;cl plan. 

Must I niy faV.W- andtc tgiJiit o Jeniia-'s-Ht*-* 
BjHhuag go-id in ad, JdUj friend and foe? 

l^pLh trieiid and foe. 

jHRf rt l ro'her ha'.iw anrl^trfats nQp, ■ 
Iiiusl I return him good and love hijn still ? 

Love li:m still. 

If h* 
Itiu^t 



CAN CHRISTIANS GO TO *VA» ? 
They cannot : and ihat'rel'.gi.cfl .which al- 
lows of war is spurious,. True, professed 
Christians go to war, vote for war, and tiain 
very year to learn the art of war. Minis'.! rs 
.iruy f"i- war. Jgul Christ did not do so. He 
*ame to bring Peace on earth, anjd cotideron- 
•<l Loth i!.c practice aid the spirit of war 
The early Christens would not fight nor 
' ear arms. Christianity is a religion of love, 
t requires us to love our enemies — Torsive 
':ose that injure us — return good for evil. 
Ivie is no war in all this. Christianity sevrcs 
ie ; war ./fcs.'rcys it. Hereby we te st ail 
iofessing Christians: if they engage in war, 
. countenance it, they cannot be Christians. 
Should ne be safe v ilhoiit Military (teferu e ? 
Vi s ; safer without than wtyftvit., i Wjn . 
•. nn's goverr.ment was safe for 70 yea.:', 
idle there was almost constant svar in nib.! 
-vcrareents The Quakers of Ireland, i:i 
: ' Rebellion of/'OB, ref::sed to take up arm-' 5 ; 
■t thrv we're unhurt in person or prop*. j!v. 
h*e possztsion of amis provokes inva-iori; 
ih'ile even the "'aws of war" forbid the al- 
•"lilijff .of unarmed, quiet pi rsnns. 

Xow friend, thou t\ ho art no poUticai tool, 
•:t eiaiir.est to be governed hy 'Keason, Con- 
: nee and. Christian love, and who .art .con-, 
need that w»r is a scourge that should be 
I >:i? away,' just sign a pledge to wash thy 
imds from all participation in or couine- 
ir.ee of it. 

Pi»,;:eo<!. — I hrrehy pledge myself never 
o servt, in the Army, : v .avv or Militia of anv 
t .a!ioft t ,S;a!.e o^- Ghieflaiti, a»4 to like niv 
ifluencfi for the abolition of War. 



A SCJLNE AT ST. $013, 
»^t,AVB At xTiov—r-VVc Gild in (lie 
St Louis lYopl.c's Of-gan, ,tl^ fol- 
lowing aci-o;ait of ' kyuydii cnliJe'' 
in that city. It is rather 'f;<ivalicai : ' 
pej liaps, (br a paprr publjsluul in s 
sImvc State, iuld jn Ihc very e;t\ 
fV/im which plijali P- Lovcjuy w as 
driven fort it hut. a few years ago. 
and finally murdered at Alton, lor 
uttjRring the (ruth iu langtiage m- 
finitely loss offensive (o "ears po- 
lifc" of Ituinnn flesh dealers' But 
! iris is only one Of the hopeful "signs 
of the t ime." 

^Co7iinicrcial.-r—T\\c steps if the 
Court House Were crowded yester- 
day morning to witness {lib .sale oi 
a line looking drove of human bo- 
ings. After having their' rnou'ih.- 
examined like horses,,^^. Iheii 
lyjtnhs pulled about, to test their 
feoutuhicss, were };ut. iml to lx 
Kin eked down by the haiuruer. 
Uompciiliori v.;is very ht»sk, and 



OS LETTERS OxN FREE Ui 
This is a ptmphlet of 100 pagetfj 
iress of T. R. Marvin, 24 Congi 
Buslon. It contains the jetters \ 
Spencer, RLchaid Rush, Edwnjj 
and oflv-rs on the subject of Froe| 
which should be read .and treasuj 
every lover of justice and humao; 



C^OJJTLl r \E.S OF A WYi 
OF PH YSIOGOJlY illustrated % 
f, us engravings; is a pajmj hlet of 
pgaes, by J. S- RedfieLd, Clinton 
price 2o cei,ts. 

This is a very interesting hook 
ogomy, a vary interesting subject, 
doubt be read with satisfaction an 
any who may give-it a perusal 



the 



lot real iKeti good prices. 



liut, 

ji. .ri 



my faiiinjs watches to reveal, 
i ins fuuifs'a.- cirefutly conceal ? 

As ca.eiudy ecuct al. 

f my name and ch ra'cer he blast, 
t'n i malic.,', too, a feng ti n-r last: 
t I s->rrou and airiictio i know 

t" add u ii-o my cu-) <>£ woa; 
su e .tmnp.i, mis peculiar case, 
i Eeno, d4jf, "ttist L si'tii lovA ( j bless? 
.. fc>u i i h»ye anflnsas. 

-"•!• ;-» il! I mav m'c iv, 
I wfr/atii iitTtj'.ili/irml^tdl forgive?' 
. patient still. r,ad still forgive. 

PKiryhovy is this? 1 liaKjjAffirv a diyre: 
oice aHful t^ach me h^i^HMP'lve hut love. 



ttui, jhsf, ami at 



rJr so, whoever me reject, 
u.i Cud me S|«-ely will jiroiect. 

bureiy wili prottci. 

: ; II roll on him my every care, 
>'->ii; tj icmi a t',. e t-iuorac in prayer 
Embrace in praye.-. 

'■ ^-'-y counsels to mine ear 
•r than to llowers lb • dew-drop tear: 
■ uctiv i lessons please me Weil; 
l^j|piTce them. Farew li, far ■well 1 
Practice litem. Farewell, I rewel'. 



. — In it ; highest oiTice, music is the 
>n of*lhe universal religious senii 
*n atmosphere < f recoiuiliation be- 

I la nds, or rather, a me lium between 
! i and the e.ni vor-.ul ; a i ou'let of 
oin the whole element of co .tradic- 
« 5 a»d intercs.s; a piom'jse ' of a 
olio; a language of a d epef bon- 
•■■<, and of emotion/, which seclc an 
i d a horns beypnd this life. And 
: earil it the natural langu-ige of reli- 
mean a religion which lies br. ad 
lender every heart, wher.e the super-, 
uidaiijs "f see's da not reach. 



UN I V E 11 SAL BROTHER HOOD. 

Our countryman, Ellhu Rurritt, lias been 
nstrumeiiiai, wiihiu '.lie last four >e>irs, of 
■ruling in Europe, a j*jjgu« which is called 
•The League of Universal Lroiherhood." 
t has enlisted, the names and synip ithies of 
• >any thousand persons op both sides of the 
Uhuitic. Its grand object is to biing the 
(*epte of all naii- ns in; > one pencrful broth- 
r'e.oqidj by p edging them to total a'osiim. nee 
roiii all v. ar,.#;-d'a hearty espousal of <-very 
u«asur^tlstPil^QilA°o |>rctmote. the welfare 
>f the human r-ice, and to recognize each 
ilher as brethren, of whatever clime or color, 



^AMERICAN AND FOR 
i Slavery office is at 61 John Sifr^ 
-vhere an assortment of Anti-Slav, 
'^amidi'ets, Tracts can be had no 

ns— address William Earned 



^CHEMISTRY, and its 
t J hysi.dogy Agriculture imil Com 
Fiol'es or LiERIG, price 20 cent 
by i-'ovriars and Wells, 13J jftlf 
k erk, — The works of Professor L 
:'or ihemselvs 



BURDKLL ON THE T F b 
ai this OSitr, price twelve 
en's. It is of great imporlau 
hi -omri acquainted wilh the cmsi 
of <li«i-asfd Teeth, This pamphlet 
aoiTW vaiuabc li^l»! on the subj ct. 

CAPiTAL PUMSiEMEiNT -*J j 
of Edward Livingston against Cap 
ishment, a pamphlet published by 
York Slate Society, for sale al this 



SLAVERY ANP CHRISTIANITY. 
The following advertisement is taken from 
he October number of the Reii-icus Herald, 
luhlished in Richmond, Virginia 

' W'UO . tVANTS ^35,000 IN PlOPERTY ? 

J ^iVI desirous to spend the balance of my 
lit - as a mi.'.sioa.iry, if the Lord permit, and 

.her«fore ofli-r for sac my farm, The F t ;ie- 
9 <:rd, adjacent to VVilliamshurg, and con'.ain- 
| i.g about ,4500 acres, well watered, well 

vended, and a hounding in marl, logetln i 
j vim ai} the crops, and stock and utensil.- 

hereon. 

Also my house and lot in town, fitted u| 
w a boarding e^tablfshmept, with all the fur- 
lhhre belouging to the same. 
Also, about forty servants, mostly" yonnj- 
I aid iikely, and rap.dly.increiliing; i'p nutnbu 
j mil valuo. 

Tp a kind master, I would pu! tjie whoV 
roji^tlv at the fi ducdtl price of tlnr'y-five 



aousaf 
■ntirely t 1 
riLrcst bi 



Uo 



ars, and arrange the payment* 
lie purchaser, pro v id d tht 
ly paid. 

ScERVAifT Jo:. - es. 



FRUITS OF CHATTEL SLAVERY. 
The following paragraph from the Rich- 
mond, Ya. Examiner, will convey some idee 

■f the ki:.d v ,t)f institution that exists at the 
South, that is lbilowshi;ip'ed by northern pto 
i-le, and i< sought to be introduced «Uo our 
.ie\V lerfitories. 

'.'A rumor of the most terrible. and U' hip- 
py cLr.'aeter is rite in this city/ A man in 
Hanover is isaid o have murdered one of his 
negroes under circumstances almost too ho: 

: ble to Hate. He tied him up in the mnrn- 
mg, and whipped, beat and tortured the P"Oi 
v. re tc» without intermission, save at rm»aK 
time, through .the day. Hu burnt off various 
parts of his body with lire, and otherwise 
tortured hjm,' in modes too horrible lo he 
mention d. The screeching brought majB 
persons to tlm place, leit the master stood h^ 
\vilh two revolvers, aiid llirea.!i»ngd to shoot 
any que thai interfered. The *egft was iv t 
taken down until Hear s^ai t, anil then onlj 
because he vfts— cLad ! The creature «ht, 
is said lo have dona this has bctjp im|.ihonid. 



attracted our atientioti and inter 
esf, from ihe anxiety she displayed 
(hiring ihe hidthng lor her liesli and 
;;!iiod, bone and .sinews. As the 
price rose to a hopeful smilr 

gradually s»prentl over, her dusky, 
good natu'red face. Tlie last lot. 
a hoy. had only brought a very 
iaoderaJe [amount. The biddi:ig 
confiried to two persons, ruse to 
$4.30. She became restless, e.on- 
linually glancing from one to the 
other of her would-be purchasers, 

—her pr-dileriion for one had evi- ^TOBACCO : ITS HISOT 
dentlv been formed— :> &-i70, sav 'i'URE, A,\D EFFECTS ox ti 
the Lve," said the auctioneer: a i anu .'-o^, by JoH tflunv M D.,i 
' . .. . .. , by fowlers & Wells, 131 Nasai 

pause ensued, oi suspense to her;jiyy Pri e 25 e. nts. 

the pne she hoped to serve, hesi- ^ 1 

tate^# "Going at $480 : going — j PICTORIAL TEMFERNAGfl 

Who'll Say the $51)0? " lie still • By T. S. Arthur — This little booj 

hesitetj; the hopeful look kad ffone! i ,^ ru 5 tioa I aDd m ?? TO " 1 for o!d 1 

- , c . 1 ■ , , I is for sale a- thi» olfice. 1 

from her features, and was replaced j 
by something akin to a . f 'veriis!) 
dread : slill she looked in his face, 
wishing she might dare to urge liini 
on.. He nodetl, ' $500 for this fine 
likely girl, fifteen years oid, a guar- 
•Hifce given; 500, ant! going." A 
nod from his opponent brought, her 
hp to $505. From ihis momont 
die seemed (o have east aside alj 
iiope — it was a matter of perfi 
tnuifTerence (o her, which mis 
uy her. At least a 
ihjrts.Jind fled., and she glanced j 
round calmly at theciowd oi' head.-:, 
looking on her. As on some, jack in 
the box, shown publicly and gra 
uitously. "li^'e grew sick of the 
•erne, as (he auctioneer proclaimed 
$510 had been bid, and we turned 
Lo force our way llirogh the crowd 



Free Labor Pr 



No. Ml Pearl street New 
"^THOLES ALE and Retail d«al< 

ceriw sad Dry O-oda, whic 

the product of Slave I^ibor. 



AVLXDOW GLASS, awortfd si 
L ante by J. i;RI 

" Boonton, Au». loth. 184&. 
outward I . ■ . _J 

AI person* ir.denif d to the 
ard KKvhari. laic of ike County of 
deceaeri, a>« hereby requenteu s 
same, an«! all those ha\ing claim* 
said isi*te are notified to j'»»satt the 
subscriber lor ••XMnhuttion wi bout d 
JOHN GRIMES, Admini 
lonulon, Aug. 15tn, 18-t9. 



VKbbUW OCIIRE, just reeei 
for sale on reasonable terms bv 



Lo nton, May 30, 1349. 



IJLANKS! 

LANK DF.EDS and MOUTC 
for s»le at the office of the l'Veft 



but. we were fast wedged. "Going 
— fair warning— going." The koy 
fell on the book, and the auction- 
eer bent forward to enter the am- 
aint of sale. The girl looked at 
the sum she fetched ''in the flesh 
ma met. but never moved a muscle, 
except, perhaps, a slight brighten- 
ing was observable in the eye, and 
in the parting of the lips, as if in 
pride that she had sold for so much. 

"Caroline, you and ihe boys go 
home," exclaimed some one near. 
The crowd opened to let them 
ptiss, and we escaped. Home / 
Pother of all, what a mockery of 
^iliat endering term ! The hMne of ! * i ojr procuring fresl 
the mtangor, perhaps 'die imler-^-|r'-ady io aceormnodat 
a home where bondage pn<ls but 011 t « wolI ' tbl,! 



J. GRI1 



•THARGdii --HA: quantity ofjt 
Lit!ii*'< T e just received and ior 
J. GRI2 

Boonton. Oct. 8, 1H9. 



feUKNlNG FLUID. 

r Jp'.IE subscriber havhi" m»de arrapjr 



Utih dcalh. 



Inning 
llioie >vb 
J. (Jill. 

Poonlon, Dec. !»tj 



> 



