EXTRACTS 

PROM 

REMARKS 

ON 

DR. CHANNING'S SLAVERY, 

WITH COMMENTS 

BY AN ABOLITIONIST. 



— 



EXTRACTS 



FKOM 



REMARKS 



DR. CHANNING'S SLAVERY. 



WITH COMMENTS, 



BY AN ABOLITIONIST. 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY D. K. HITCHCOCK, 

1836. 



res- 7S"ST7jt -^o^y 



PREFACE. 



The following comments were ready for publication by the middle of Februa- 
ry, which was previous to the review of the remarks by another citizen ; but 
circumstances, over which their writer had no control, have prevented their ap- 
pearing in print. 

Presuming that most, if not all the persons by whom this pamphlet will be 
perused, have already read the remarks on Dr. Channing's Slavery, it is not con- 
sidered absolutely necessary to republish the whole of the pamphlet, though this 
would have been done if objections had not been made to it by the person to 
whom the copy-right of the remarks is secured. It was intended, before this was 
ascertained, to republish the whole, believing that the lack of all argument, in 
support of our system of slavery, founded either on religion, reason or morality, 
would be, by that means, rendered as apparent, as the most fanatical abolitionist 
could desire. The remarks, therefore, to which the comments apply, have been 
selected, which, with some others, will be sufficient to show the spirit of the book 
and the intention of the author in publishing it. As the weight of a straw affects 
a balance, in like manner it is hoped that these comments may have their 
mite of influence on public opinion, when thrown into the balance of weightier, 
and much more powerful arguments, in favor of the abolition of slavery. As 
the Scriptures were designed to inculcate the duties of doing justly, and loving 
mercy, and express of reiterated assertions, God's abhorrence of every species of 
oppression, it appeared to me, when they were brought forward in support of 
the system of slavery, that something should be done to rescue them from the 
foul reproach. 

They were likewise intended to show that history nowhere sanctions a 
system of slavery, originating in the nefarious and capital crime of man- 
stealing. 

This was the actuating motive of the writer of the comments. For the success 
of the design, we are not accountable; it is the widow's mite — and as such, it is 
respectfully offered to the reader. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/extractsfromrema1836bost 



SLAVERY. 



The remarker commences his pamphlet with an acknowledg- 
ment of the high standing of Dr. Channing, of his extensive influ- 
ence as a writer, assents to the praise which has been bestowed on 
his style, and "to the purity, elegance, correctness, power and point 
of his language," but thinks his zeal, in the cause of abolition, as 
mistaken as that of the crusaders ; censures " the cathedral spirit, 
in which his commands are conveyed," and expresses a suspicion 
that the censures he casts on grievous sins must proceed from an 
assumption of superior sanctity, which will be deemed a departure 
from that temper of humility, which, " as much as anything, is the 
doctrine of Christian philosophy." Physician heal thyself, is a re- 
tort which the best cannot expect to escape, when they endeavor to 
impress on a community the truths of morality and religion. If it is 
addressed to him who was without sin, how can his disciples expect 
to avoid it ? 

He then presents the following propositions, to which he asks the 
attention of the reader. 

" First. Public sentiment in the free States, in relation to Slavery, 
is perfectly sound, and ought not to be altered." 

What is meant by this proposition % That public sentiment here, 
is entirely opposed to slavery? Why then the brick-bats, hurled at 
the heads of the advocates of its abolition % If, as he states, the 
doctrine of the Northern States is, that domestic Slaveryis a deep 
and dreadful evil, why are our halls and churches dependent on 
the will of the people to open or shut ? — closed against every attempt 
to give utterance to their sentiments % 



If it is in reality a deep and, dreadful evil, and as some of us be- 
lieve, a stupenduous sin, the requirements of Christianity would im- 
pose on us the duty of endeavoring to convince those by whom the 
system is upheld of these important truths, and likewise to persuade 
them to use their utmost efforts to accomplish its overthrow. 

If every attempt to speak, or to print on the subject, is to be baffled 
by public opinion, or prohibited by such laws as the public resolu- 
tions of the slave-holding districts require of us, how is this to be 
effected ? 1 do not anticipate this shocking result ; I will not give so 
short a date to the inestimable privileges purchased for us by the 
blood of our Fathers. 

In the course of his remarks, he observes, " that he does not think 
it desirable that domestic slavery should cease in the United States," 
because it could not be terminated in any way that would not pro- 
duce vastly more aggravated and extensive evils than 1 are suffered 
by its continuance." Does he not here express the opinion of a 
large class of our fellow-citizens 1 Very many persons, as appears 
by the numerous accessions to abolition societies, think differently. 
Why should we then be deprived of the privilege, which our Con- 
stitution secures to us, of meeting together to discuss the subject 
among ourselves ? or of the right of letting our southern brethren 
know their result 1 Have they any reason to resent it, since the 
question involves the honor and interest of our common country ? 
Its sectional divisions are little thought of by the world; it is spoken 
of as a whole. 

Viewing domestic slavery as a deep and dreadful evil, a respecta- 
ble minority here think that the danger of causing insurrections 
among the slaves, by the proceeding of the abolitionists, is far 
less to be dreaded by the planter than a continuance of this 
system. 

" We know the fiery character of the slave-holders. Dr. C. de- 
scribes it strongly : 

' A'quick resentment of whatever is thought to encroach on personal digni- 
ty — vehemence of the vindictive passions — and contempt of all laws, human 
and divine, in retaliating injury ; these take rank among the virtues of men, 
whose self-estimation has been fed by the possession of absolute power.' 

" With such views of their temperament, it is surprising he should 
deem his mode of attack calculated to accomplish the professed ob- 
ject of his book. Tt is pouring oil on a conflagration." 



If such is really the temperament of the southern slave-holder, it 
appears to me just such labors of gospel love as the Dr. bestows on 
them, are necessary to change their characters, and to convert them 
to the temper and spirit of Christianity, of which they are a direct 
violation. 

" Is it said this book is not, by its manner, calculated to produce dis- 
turbance among slaves ? Let us examine it. Think you, if Dr. 
Channing was to go into the slave country, and, gathering round him 
a hundred negroes, preach the doctrines to them which he has pubp 
lished to us, it would be likely to produce disturbance ? Or, what is 
the same thing, if he should send his book to some free negro, who 
should mount a stump, and read it to his race, would it produce 
disturbance ? Is it a book that any slave-owner would permit to be 
published on his plantation? Is the existence of the book good 
cause of alarm to him, and an inducement to greater care that it 
should not be circulated ? Nobody can doubt upon these points. 
Would slave-owners permit his pamphlet to be read to their slaves ? 

" The only remaining inquiry is, will the doctrines of this book 
reach the ears of the slaves? 

" Whether they do or not, Dr. C. is equally culpable, by his own 
system of morals. For, by printing the book, he has done what he 
can to give it to the world. 

" But it will get to its destination. Sooner or later its doctrines 
will reach the slave. The world is one great whispering-gallery, 
whose faintest echos are reverberated by the press. Slowly but 
surely, whatever it publishes moves through inferior agents and 
reaches all cus deeply concerned in its relations. 

" I charge him — in spite of his disclaimer — with the doctrine of 
Insurrection. He inculcates the right of insurrection on the 
whole slave population of the United States. It is immaterial that 
he contradicts himself. It is in vain that he abjures this act in ab- 
solute terms. If the necessary and fair, and only proper deduction 
of his argument is insurrection ; if all sound reasoning from his de- 
clared principles leads to it ; if all rational men must so understand 
it; if the stupidest slave would so receive it ; if it requires false logic 
and sophistry to escape from it ; — then it is insurrection that he 
preaches ; and for its horrors, when they come, and for their evils, 
in anticipation, he is answerable, to the extent of his exertion, at the 
tribunal of public opinion and the bar of God." 

If the Remarker had substituted the first person for the third, 
throughout this paragraph, every candid reader of the Dr.'s book, 
and his own, would have admitted he came much nearer the 
tru'h. 



8 

"On the twenty-ninth page, the position that has before been re- 
peated in every form and with every variety of illustration, is summed 
up in the following forcible and impressive words :" 

' We have thus seen that a human being cannot rightfully be held and used 
as property. No legislation, not that of all countries or worlds, could make him 
so. Let this be laid down, as a first, a fundamental truth. Let us hold it fast 
as a most sacred, precious truth. Let us hold it fast against all customs, all 
laws, all rank, wealth and power. Let it be arm«d with the whole authority 
of the civilized and Christian world.' ' 

Does it follow from these and similar remarks, when read in their 
context with the general arguments of the Dr.'s book, that he would 
urge the slave to fight himself free, or his master to give him his 
liberty ? 

" The negroes in the southern States are made slaves by acts of 
legislation and the coercive power which is exercised under those 
acts. If these acts were repealed, every slave would be as free as 
Dr. Channing. But if these acts of legislation are already made void 
by a power superior to all human constitutions and governments, if 
they cannot accomplish what they propose to accomplish, they have 
done nothing ; they no more operate upon the negro within their ju- 
risdiction, than upon the white man beyond it. There is, then, no 
legal Slavery, and can be none." 

The Dr. nowhere denies the legality of Slavery by our laws, but 
insists that if our laws are a violation of God's laws they should be 
immediately repealed, viz : as soon as practicable. 

" If the Bible, says. Dr C, had forbidden the evil of Slavery instead 
of subverting the principle, if it had proclaimed the unlawfulness of 
Slavery, and taught slaves to resist the oppression of their masters, 
it would instantly have arrayed the two parties in deadly hostility 
throughout the civilized world." 

If the doctrines of the Bible subvert the principles of slavery — 
How long must we wait, ere we make an attempt to promote its 
designs 1 are we not individually called upon to use our utmost in- 
fluence to promote them ? 

" Slavery has existed in all time in the fairest regions of the earth 
and among the most civilized portions of mankind. Our own gov- 
ernment not long since made a claim on Great Britian for the value 
of the property of our citizens in some hundred human slaves. The 
principle was admitted by the English nation. The amount to be 
paid was referred to the arbitration of the Emperor of Russia. Our 
claim was allowed, the money received, and distributed to the claim- 
ants for the loss of their property in slaves." 



" When in public judgment it is wrongit will be changed. Argu- 
ments may very properly be urged to prove that it ought to be changed, 
but none can be tolerated in society to show that while it is allowed 
to stand it is inoperative and void. 

" Dr. C. probably means to say that the law which makes property 
of a slave is inconsistent with the law of God. In deciding this 
question, the Doctor is not to be sole judge. It is a question about 
which other men quite as eminent have the same right of opinion. 
Its true solution is to be ascertained by the condition and circum- 
stances of the case." 

If the circumstances of the case are to decide its consistency 
with the law of God, it is clear that a system which originated in, 
and has been supported by man-stealing, must be one which the 
laws of God condemn. How can we escape this conclusion ? 

The Remarker commences his chapter on the right of discussion, 
by truisms which I have never heard disputed ; the substance of 
them is — that in communities, where it is not restrained by law, it 
should be controlled by a high moral responsibility ; which imposes 
on individuals the duty of self-restraint, when its exercise would be 
palpably inexpedient. 

" If a discussion of slavery, in its actual state and condition in our 
country, excites in the people of the free States, indignation, resent- 
ment and pity; if i,tj produces in New-England, horror, abhorrence 
and contempt, it must lead to action, in which these convulsions of 
the mind will pour out its concentrated fires, or it will compel us to 
brood, in sullen malignity and silence, over the compressed passions 
that policy stifles in the heart. We must be open enemies, or false 
and deceitful friends. If no action is proposed, and no safe action 
can possibly be devised for us, there is no alternative but sullenness 
and hatred. The bonds of our political union may remain indeed 
undivorced ; but we have prepared for ourselves a condition of connu- 
bial wretchedness, to which their actual dissolution would be infinitely 
preferable." 

There is a class in the community who think the term Slavery 
(as practised in our country) synonomous with oppression, and that 
the Bible enjoins upon every man to cry loudly against this sin. 
Influenced by these motives, they consider it a duty publicly to 
condemn the system of Slavery, by the methods universally employed 
for the promulgation of ideas or doctrines. Their ideas of expedi- 
ency have reference to the requirements of duty, leaving the conse? 



10 

quenees to God. They therefore do not believe it to be right to re- 
frain from speaking against oppression, lest it may offend the op- 
pressor; they hope, by so doing, to convince him of his sin, that he 
may forsake it. They cannot go to him to endeavor by argument, 
and appeals to his conscience, to effect their purpose, because they 
threaten to Lynch them, and in some instances have put their 
threats in execution. " When 3 7 e are persecuted in one city, flee to 
another," and preach your doctrines there. No command to refrain 
from preaching anyivhere. 

The only means that are left to this class, is to endeavor to create 
a strong public sentiment against the system in the free States, 
which, united to the same sentiment throughout Christendom, will 
operate a change in the feelings of the slave-holding community, 
and induce them to listen to arguments which will convince them 
of their sin, and, it is ardently hoped, cause them to forsake it. This 
comment has not been written to give information of the schemes of 
abolitionists, as it is presumed they are generally known, but in 
answer to this chapter of rodomontade, about the danger of discus- 
sing a subject among ourselves, on which he asserts all classes of 
the community are agreed, and consider to be a deep and dreadful 
evil. If this were true, from whence would come the mobs, to 
arrest our discussions, and prevent our proceedings when we assem- 
ble together to devise means to remove this deep and dreadful evil 
from our common and beloved country. Oh, consistency ! what a 
jewel art thou. How ornamental, even to a book ! 

Were it openly avowed by the opponents of discussion, that the 
panic which had seized them had originated in a fear that our efforts, 
instead of dissolving the fetters of the slaves would cause new ones 
to be forged for ourselves, we would admit from present appearances 
that their fears do not now appear altogether so shadowy as we 
should once have supposed them. But can it be that the cradle of 
liberty has rocked a race so unworthy of their sires? Can it be, 
that New England will sacrifice both honor, and conscience, to mo- 
tives of interest or expediency ? 

Can it be, that the birth-place of liberty is so soon to become its 
altar of immolation? and that New-England, which enrols among 



11 

her many names of honor those of Franklin, Greene, Hancock and 
Adams, has become already, after the lapse of only one generation, 
so apostate to the principles which actuated her sires — as to be 
ready to sacrifice both rights and duty to motives of commercial 
and pecuniary interests, or to yield them to slave-holding domina- 
tion, from an overweening regard to the advantages of our union ! 

That the union of the separate States, which compose our com- 
mon country, was among the most precious bequests of our fore- 
fathers, I am as thoroughly convinced as any of its most zealous 
supporters ; and also that it ought to be maintained by every sacri- 
fice, but those of honor, and duty to ourselves, and our most holy 
religion. These principles I consider too sacred to be bartered for 
any earthly considerations. And woe to us as a peoole, when 
we shall give public demonstration that this is not the orevailing 
feeling of our community. Is not the union so valued by us equal- 
ly promotive of the interests of the South ? Why, then, should ev- 
ery sacrifice to preserve it be required only of us? Has not the 
threat of dissolving it been many times emploj^ed to awe us in- 
to submission to their dictation ? is it not now being employed for 
that apparent purpose? And why should its dissolution be 
more appalling to us than to them ? Are we more dependant on 
them for resources, and protection against foreign and domestic 
foes, than they on us? Is it at all probable that they will withdraw 
from the Union, to preserve a system which they are fully aware 
depends on that as its chief support ? The blow that dissolves it, 
dissolves the fetters of the slave. And is it rational to suppose, that 
men who are fully aware of these circumstances will be the first to 
aim a blow, which, they well know, would crumble to atoms the 
system which they wish to support, under a pretence that they are 
doing it to lengthen its existence ? Our path is the path of duty- 
may we conscientiously endeavor to find it \ It is the only path of 
safety from which we cannot swerve without incurring the dis- 
pleasure of Him who holds in his hands the destiny of nations, 
which with him are accounted as the small dust of the balance, and 
to whom belong the issues from death. 

" Public sentiment in the slave-holding States cannot be altered, 
" This arises from a very melancholy consideration, but one which 
should be deeply considered. 



12 

M Domestic Slavery is, in the United States, so intimately connected 
with civil society, that it can never be removed but by one of those 
tremendous convulsions in which nations perish. 

" I speak not merely of the destruction of popular government, of 
the overturn of our democracy and the substitution of another. I say 
nothing of the dissolution of the Union and the establishment of sev- 
eral feeble and independent States. I speak not of civil war and its 
concomitants of butchery, massacre, and blood. Far less do I limit 
the statement to the waste of property, the desolation and ruin, the 
wretchedness and poverty of houseless and helpless fugitives from 
their once comfortable homes. I speak not of the deluge of crime 
that would sweep, like another flood, over all the moral monuments 
of the country ; but of Chaos come again, in the utter annihilation 
of all the elements of which our social, civil, religious, and political 
institutions are created." 

Has the gentleman been frightened by an abolition ghost ? Or 
from whence have sprung these bugbears of his brain? He surely 
has not seen them in any record of emancipation of modern times; I 
have not noticed them in the annals of history, either ancient or 
modern, though this is not evidence that they are not to be found 
there. We are surrounded by countries who have tried the experi- 
ment. What are its results in South America, in the East and 
West-Indies, in Mexico, and in St. Domingo? Have the evils, 
which he so pathetically deprecates, been realized in any of these 
places, as the consequences of emancipation ? If emancipation on 
the soil really appears to the American planter an experiment too 
hazardous to attempt, there are other modes by which it might be 
effected. We have extensive and unoccupied territories which 
might be appropriated to the colonization of the slave after his libera- 
tion — when some or all of the slave-holding States shall call for 
the measure. 

I have too exalted an opinion of the philanthropy and patriotism 
of my countrymen of the North, notwithstanding what has been 
said of their penny-catching disposition, to believe that this scheme 
Would meet with opposition from them; nor have we reason to sup- 
pose that it would be opposed by the free States of any other sectitn 
of our country. This is a scheme of colonization which would 
have every probability of success, and would probably unite the 
efforts of the Abolitionists, and such Colonizationists as have the 
welfare of the slave at heart 8 to promote its accomplishment. 



13 

The slave would, undoubtedly, joyfully accept his freedom to en- 
joy a home of his own, whether employed by his master for wages, 
or removed to another section of the country. 

It would be at the option of the master, whether to give him his 
liberty on the soil, or on condition of his leaving the country, for the 
territory which should be appropriated for his Colonization. A part 
of our surplus revenue might be employed for the support of the dis- 
abled and superanuated ; schools opened for the instruction of the 
young, in all the common and useful branches of education; Houses 
of Industry erected for the idler and vagabond. 

The distance from some of the slave-holding States to some of 
our territories, which might be found suitable to colonize them on, 
is not so great as to require a very great expenditure to enable ibem 
to reach there. The territory might remain under the government 
of the United States, on the same terms as our others, if such should 
be the decision of Congress on the subject. This, in all probability, 
would receive the approbation of the colonists, as long as their gov- 
ernment should be administered with equity. Should it cease to be 
so administered, they would have our example to justify them in 
revolting against it. As an individual, I should not approve of this 
measure, believing that means more conformable to the doctrines of 
Christianity might be devised to effect this purpose. To a humble 
individual, unskilled in politics, this scheme seems calculated to 
promote the best interests of all the parties concerned, and that from 
it, when compared with the existing circumstances of the par- 
ties, would be likely to result the greatest good to the greatest 
number. 

I am fully aware that, by many, perhaps by most persons, it may 
be considered presumptuous, in a private individual, to propose a 
scheme for the consideration of others, to whom, in point of talent, 
he pretends to no comparison But as they are called for by the 
Rernarker on Channing, in terms which imply his belief that none 
could be devised which would afford any possible chance of success, 
I have ventured to offer the above, which will serve to show our 
reasons for differing from him in opinion, and supposing some might 
be devised not wholly destitute of plausibilitj', or some probability of 
success. 

Abolitionists, as a society, do not propose schemes. They think, 
when the citizens of the South are ready to adopt one, they will 
2 



14 

choose to devise it for themselves. As emancipation on the soil 
has been followed by beneficial results in the countries that have 
proved it, I believe they generally think it might be effected in our 
own, with perfect safety to the parties concerned. Their testimony 
is against the sinfulness of the system, which, besides the extreme 
oppression which it justifies, deprives both God and man of their 
rights. God, of his right to their obedience to his commands, which 
they are not permitted to yield unless it suits the will of the master, 
and likewise of the fruits of the talents he has bestowed on them 
for the good of mankind and his own glory. And man, of the 
right of employing these talents agreeably to the purpose for which 
they were bestowed. 

Among them would be found, no doubt, if educated like the white 
man, eminent artizans, philosophers, philanthropists, divines, and 
men of science. Can this be doubted ? From whence sprung the 
sciences? They have been traced to Ethiopia, which is allowed 
to be their birth-place, because they can be traced no farther. Can 
there be any doubt about the color of the Ethiopian's skin ? " Can 
the Ethiopian change his skin? " The position of the country so 
near the equator, places it beyond a doubt. 

That the black man is equally susceptible of religious impressions, 
and understanding the truths of the gospel, as the white, is evi- 
denced by the labor bestowed on one of them by the Apostle Philip. 
It appears that Philip had been directed, by a vision, to take a road 
on which was travelling an Ethiopian of great authority, under 
Candace, their queen. He was returning to his country from Jeru- 
salem, to which place he had been to worship God, conformably to 
the rites of the Jews ; when overtaken by the apostle, he was read- 
ing the prophet Esaias. The Spirit said unto him, go near, and 
join thyself unto this chariot. Philip did not disdain his request to 
come up and sit with hirn, to whom he explained the Scriptures he 
was reading, and " preached unto him Jesus," in whose name he bap- 
tized him, after he had expressed his belief that he was Christ the 
Son of God. If it was thought necessary to bestow so much pains 
on one Ethiopian, to convert him to Christ, is it not evident that 
their souls are as precious to their Creator as those of the white 
man ? and can we innocently deprive man of his rights, and God of 
his due ? 

The time of the deliverance of the African is, I firmly believe, 
from the signs of the times, near at hand. The efforts now being 



15 

employed by Christendom for its accomplishment, are to me an 
evidence that God's time for achieving it draws near; and that, 
either with, or without the consent of their present owners, he will 
accomplish it by the same outstretched arm which wrought de- 
liverance for the children of Israel. That arm has not lost its vigor, 
neither is it shortened that it cannot save. Moses was commis- 
sioned by God to assure Pharaoh, that it was his will that he should 
let them go free. The message was not regarded by Pharaoh ; the 
work was achieved by the Almighty, by means which he alone can 
employ. 

Abolitionists are desirous of convincing the supporters of the system 
of Slavery of its sinfulness, holding opinions, with respect to the ob- 
duracy of the community in which it exists, more favorable than 
those expressed by the Remarker. 

" The eminent patriot, to whom, more than to any man living, we 
owe the constitution of the United States, was a slave-holder, and his 
example will, in the land of their nativity, outweigh all the eloquence 
and all the learning of a whole colony of mere talking clergymen. 

" The slave region has pronounced its decision. Within its bor- 
ders, Slavery shall not be discussed. The people do not mean, by 
any affectation of liberality, to endanger their social system. They 
believe it is right ; but they mean to maintain it, wrong, or right. 
Upon this subject, they ask no instruction, and they permit none. 
They have taken their stand. They refute all argument by silenc- 
ing it, and to all force they are prepared for resistance." 

Have abolitionists uttered a fouler slander of the slave-holder 
than this? Do not these observations imply that he is wholly 
reprobate, has placed himself beyond the pale of moral or religious 
influences, and that, therefore, though convinced of sin, he is resolved 
to continue in it? From this circumstance, every effort to change his 
resolution must be the extreme of childishness and folly. The 
Southern community is now under Lynch law ; therefore, their best 
and most pious citizens are compelled to silence. When these laws 
shall have lost their vigor, by the increase of the numbers opposed 
to them, we shall hear a different expression from some of them, than 
that which now comes to us as their united voice. 

" The difficulty already stated might appal ordinary minds; but 
there is nothing too arduous for the efforts of fanaticism — nothing 
too quixotic for the knight-errantry of religious reformers, 



16 

" Let us then look at the case in another point of view. The 
masters of slaves, it is admitted, are not at present in a temper of 
mind to give them liberty; and the slaves themselves are not in a 
condition to receive it. What are the means of abolition? 

'" I only ask" — says Dr. C. — 'that the slave-holding States 
should resolve, conscientiouslj'' and in good faith, to remove this great- 
est of moral evils and wrongs, and would bring immediately to the 
work all their intelligence, virtue, and power.' 

" The extreme simplicity of this modest request shows the value 
of the proposal for all practical purposes. It is only that the whole 
population of the slave district should change its habits, manners, 
feelings, tastes, inclinations, principles, objects, wants, and wishes. 
It is only that, while they think themselves in perfect health, they 
should believe this physician of souls, that they are gangrened at the 
heart. If only that for the purpose of curing a disease of which 
they are not sensible, they should submit, not merely a spouting arte- 
ry to be tied up by this skillful surgeon, but as if there were any 
hope of life in the experiment, make bare the whole vascular system 
to be dissected from the quivering trunk." 

" They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are 
sick." The patient often thinks lightly of his disease, when 
the physician knows it to be incurable, unless the most skill- 
ful means employed for his recovery, should be attended with 
success. 

" Force, power, authority, are to interfere ; and what cannot be ac- 
complished by argument, is to be made successful by the arm of the 
law. 

" But government and legislatures, in our day, are not what they 
once were. Government and legislatures are but another name for 
the people. In the slave-country, slave-holders make them ; and 
they who are thus created, are slave-holders themselves." 

If this were not true, another remark which he has previously ex- 
pressed, — " That sympathy is due to the white man as well as the 
slave, affectionate assurances of regard and protection are due to 
the white woman of education and virtue, to the feebleness of infan- 
cy and the helplessness of age, as well as to the tawny-colored 
children of bondage," — would be equally just. But the man who 
ties himself to a post, and then complains of his inability to move, 
will not excite as much sympathy as the man who is so confined 
by another. 



17 

" Slavery is an evil. The slave feels it to be so. But in what 
does he think the evil consists ? In its physical, not its moral depri* 
vations. Of these, the majority know nothing, and no more feel the 
want of them than do the brute animals with whom they labor. 

" The freedom that they seek is relaxation from toil, from restraint, 
from industry. The liberty they desire is the liberty of sensual in- 
dulgences — to eat, drink, dance, sing and sleep, in idleness and ease. 
We see this in the free negroes who have once been slaves. It is the 
peculiarity of their character." 

Can these positions be satisfactorily demonstrated, until they are 
allowed the means of rising by education, and those employments 
which raise white men to wealth and distinction ? 

" There has been no insurrection among the slaves, in which, how-: 
ever temporary their power, it has not been exerted with dreadful 
cruelty and acts horrible to humanity. To implant better principles, 
is a pious, but a very hopeless task. For eighteen hundred years, the 
world has enjoyed the light of Christianity ; and yet we are daily> 
witnesses of its feebleness to restrain the excesses of human passion. 
How many generations of slaves are to pass away in moral disci- 
pline before the descendants of the present are to be competent to 
freedom ? " 

I think it would puzzle a lawyer to tell how future genera^ 
tions of slaves are to be prepared for freedom, by their present mode 
of treatment, 

'■ We must refuse, certainly, to share the gains of these man- 
destroyers and oppressors of human rights. If they have stolen the 
labor of the African, we may not be receivers of the spoil. We must 
taste none of the sugar, eat none of the rice, wear none of the cotton, 
purchase at no price any other article which is the product of slave 
labor. When the reverend teacher has acted on his own principles, 
and proves to us that in this respect he keeps himself unspotted from 
the sin of Slavery, he may have some better right to read us the lec- 
ture, whioh, as one having authority, he has so assumingly bestowed 
upon us." 

Reasoning from these premises, abolitionists have passeb resolutions 
to refrain from the productions of slave-labor, when those of free 
labor could be procured, even at a higher price — some of them ab? 
stain altogether from articles produced by the forced, blood-stained, 
and unrequited toils of the slave, 



18 

" Are the sufferings of the slaves, in which we are invited to feel 
so much sympathy, comparable to what would be endured by our 
own laboring poor, if, for a single year, the Southern crop should fail 
for want of cultivation ? 

" If the slaves must toil with wholesome and reasonable labor, or 
our own people must starve, though they double their exertions, which 
alternative does a wise and sound morality direct us to choose ? " 

Fudge ! Must the New-Englander starve, though an article of 
food should not come to us from beyond Mason's and Dixon's line? 
Where is our commerce, which whitens every sea, mart and port of 
the globe? Where are our own resources? Were food and raiment 
withheld from that quarter, they would come from every other nook 
of the earth. Then also might our New-England farmers live by the 
fruits of their own industry, and our barren hills, like similar ones in 
other countries, where agricultural labor is sure of a ready market 
for its productions, become a fruitful garden. 

Do not these constant appeals to our cupidity imply a belief in 
its existence? Shame on the New-Englander, who would endeavor 
to promote such feelings, by constantly appealing to them. Distant 
be the day, when our articles of consumption may not be supplied 
by our own territories. But soon may the period arrive when they 
shall be the productions of the labors of freemen, who have not been 
wronged out of their hire. 

" A government would be absurdly defective in power which could 
not prevent the infraction of its peace, and as absurdly ignorant not 
to know that other governments require it, to prevent its citizens 
from intermeddling in their internal affairs. Neither do I say any- 
thing of the cruelty to the negro, bond or free, which these publica- 
tions cause under the guise of humanity. This topic has been also 
well-enforced. We see it practically in our own colored population. 
Their character is wasting under the operation of a too sublimated 
morality which they cannot comprehend. We shall make worthless 
vagabonds of hitherto harmless and orderly citizens." 

Who will make worthless vagabonds of them ? The abolitionists, 
who would have them instructed in all useful knowledge, both 
spiritual and temporal, if efforts were not employed to prevent it ? or he 
whose prejudices against their color, would deprive them of every 
species of instruction, excepting that which would qualify them to 
perform the most servile labor? Is it not the mind which makes 
the man? Is it not intelligence, united to good moral conduct, 



19 

which gives respectability to all ? How much is the white man, 
destitute of these recommendations, above the black man, who, in the 
same degree, exhibits a want of them ? 

• If Slavery did not exist in the country, the question of introducing 
it would be settled by acclamation. No solitary voice would call it 
into being. If, like Columbus, we now stood upon the borders of a 
virgin world, and had what his great genius could not command, 
power to direct by whom it should be settled, or if over any part of it, 
like one of the eminent men of New-England, we had been favored by 
Providence with the right to say who should occupy its borders, all 
would join in the recorded mandate of the Ordinance for settling the 
North- Western Territory — our soil shall never be polluted by 
Slavery ." 

Governor McDuffie (who is an echo of the sentiments of Southern 
statesmen) considers slavery a divine institution, the bulwark of a 
republican government. Would he sign the mandate? 

" Second. Public sentiment in the slave-holding States, whether 
right or not, cannot be altered." 

Why not? has not public sentiment been changed, on many 
important subjects, by the same methods that abolitionists are now 
pursuing. 

" Third. An attempt to produce any alteration in the public senti- 
ment of the country, will cause great additional evil — moral, social, 
and political." 

" The first of these positions has been so long acknowledged, and 
so recently repeated, that it needs no additional enforcement ; and he 
who attempts to stir up the public mind to a stronger feeling, or a 
deeper glow of indignation, does in effect join that little band of fa- 
natics whose imprudent agitation has deranged the peace of the com- 
munity. 

" Whatever may be the disclaimer of our author, his book does 
this, and in the sensitive region of slavery will be keenly felt to have 
done this ; and all the troubles caused by the inferior agents in this 
work of commotion, will be reproduced and augment the influence 
of his authority." 

The Dr. appeared to think that his calm and Christian-like manner 
of treating the subject, would screen his book from the censures 
cast on the writings of the abolitionists. The man of honor feels 
as keen resentment at the insinuation that he has uttered a false- 



20 

hood, as he would at a direct charge of it — it is the accusation 
which wounds, and not the terms in which it is conveyed. 1 know 
of no terms in which you could tell the Southern planter that he 
was possessed of stolen property that would sound pleasant 
to him. 

" Why are we told in detail of the vast evils of Slavery ? of the 
moral and social and personal degradation that it brings with it ? of 
the sin and misery and wretchedness, in which, with retributive jus- 
tice, it involves all classes of the community in which it is found ? 
This, and more than this, is the common feeling of our New-Eng- 
land population." 

Why is the gospel preached to us every Sabbath day? We all 
of us own it, and profess to believe in the necessity of obeying its 
precepts. 

" As addressed to the South, it is but a reiteration of the deep and 
powerful feeling which, to a very great extent, prevails among its 
best-informed and well-principled people. But, to them, it comes 
with all the bitter insult of intentional mockery." 

Gov. McDuffie's speech denies these assertions — the spirit of 
the public resolutions of the South, even of their churches, deny 
them. The speeches of the Southern delegates in Congress deny 
them. 

" Suppose the pretended masters of more than two millions of hu- 
man beings, warned by Dr. Channing's denunciations, as by another 
earthquake, awake out of their deep sleep of sin, and come running 
to this modern Paul, with the heart-breaking exclamation — Sir, sir, 
what shall we do to be saved ? Has our apostle of freedom one word 
of consolation or instruction to give them 1 has he devised the way 
of their escape from the moral guilt in which he tells them they are 
plunged ? Does he propose any remedy for this leprosy of their 
souls? Is there any pool of Siloam in which, by his direction, they 
may wash and be clean ?" 

Yes — cease from their sin ; then there will be a pool open for 
them to wash in and be clean. 

44 None is known — nothing is proposed. No human security has 
been or can be suggested, that has the slightest practical efficiency. 
The Catholic priest, when he brings his penitent to the confessional, 
has some relief for his conscience ; but here, all is desolation and de» 
spair. 



21 

" A practical philosopher would not think this mode of discussion 
calculated to awaken the conscience. Its tendency is to rouse the 
passions and arm the supposed criminal for defence." 

What mode? speaking the truth in love, and calling- things 
by their right names? It was the false prophets that daubed with 
untempered mortar; if unjust epithets have been employed — if 
our writings have been addressed to the slave — convict us of it; 
we solicit investigation. 

"Present pain, apprehension of future danger, uncertain, indefinite, 
but on that account more alarming, press everywhere on the free 
population of a slave country. They live, they know they live on 
the crater of a volcano, which every moment may pour forth its con- 
cealed but certain fires, in a torrent of indiscriminate destruction." 

McDuffie denies this also. 

"I object to the severe and indiscriminate national reflections, which 
this teacher of morals deems himself at liberty to throw on our slave- 
holding countrymen. True or false, they are alike objectionable. 

" ' Malicious slander,' says an approved writer, ' is the relating of 
truth or falsehood, for the purpose of creating misery.' Such pur- 
pose would undoubtedly be denied by* our author ; but if misery is 
not the consequence, it will not be for want of poison in the shaft, 
but vigor in the bow." 

And I should think would be credited by every disinterested 
reader. I am no Unitarian ; but an abolitionist of the school he 
condemns. This does not close my heart to the conviction that 
every sentiment he utters breathes sympathy and concern for the 
master as well as for the slave. The Dr's. censures probably pro- 
ceeded from the same source that has led thousands of others to 
condemn them, viz. ignorance of their writings and course of pro- 
ceedings. 

"If domestic Slavery, as the book avers, nourishes in the master of 
slaves the passion for power and its kindred vices, annihilates the 
control of Christianity, and is necessarily fatal to the purity of a 
people, — if a slave country reeks with licentiousness and crime — if 
itistaintei with a deadlier pestilence than the plague — it isunfortu- 
nate for our own moral habits that the facts were not known to our 
fathers, before they bound our virtuous New-England in a bond of 
amity and fellowship to all this iniquity and wretchedness." 

The facts were known to our fathers — but the perilous condition 



22 

of our country, at that time, decided them to yield to the expedi- 
ency of adopting the union with this horrid excresence on its 
face; thinking, no doubt, that the liberal and enlightened sen- 
timents which were then prevailing in the community, and were 
expressed in our instrument of confederation, would, like the leaven 
hid in the three measures of meal, soon produce such a change in 
public sentiment, with regard to Slavery, as would shortly^ cause 
its final extirpation. 

"A practical moralist is bound to find a remedy for the evils he 
enumerates, or keep silence till he can. 

"Prayer meetings may be held by the faithful. Women, and men 
like women, may meet in secret conclave and preach about it. Lit- 
tle children may lose their gingerbread and give their cents to pur- 
chase tracts. Foreign renegades, whom fanaticism sends to us and 
folly encourages, may agitate the community with inflammatory ex- 
hortations and specious discourse. The gifted and fair, whom the 
misplaced hospitality of an abused people flatters into a brief notori- 
ety, may join their factitious consequence to the throng, and even 
the splendor of great talents, the reputation of great piety and the 
influence of a great name may bring all the resources it possesses to 
remove Slavery from the land, — but the day of deliverance will not 
dawn upon us till all who now hold slaves and all who reproach 
them for it, and the slaves themselves who are the present living ob- 
jects of pity and love, shall be together alike the " unsubstantial im- 
ages of air. " 

Why so, if the present generation of slave-holders should be 
brought to see the justice and expediency of abolishing the 
system? 

" In my judgement the time will be protracted by these general ac- 
cusations." 

" Rebuke a wise man, and he becomes wiser." — Prov. " Let the 
righteous smite me, it shall be a kindness ; let him reprove me, it shall 
be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head, for yet my prayer 
shall be in his calamities." Psalms, 41 : 5. 

" Besides the extreme offensiveness of national reflections, there is a 
passage of such point and particularity, that scarcely a husband or 
father in the slave country can fail to consider it a personal affront. 

' Early licentiousness is fruitful of crime in mature life. How far the obli- 
gation to conjugal fidelity, the sacredness of domestic ties, will be revered 



23 

amid such habits, such temptations, such facilities to vice, as are involved in 
Slavery, needs no exposition. So terrible is the connexion of crimes ! They 
who invade the domestic rights of others, suffer in their own homes. The 
household of the slave may be broken up arbitrarily by the master; but he finds 
his revenge, if revenge he asks, in the blight which the master's unfaithfulness 
sheds over his own domestic joys. A slave-country reeks with licentiousness. 
It is tainted with a deadlier pestilence than the plague" 

" It is among the most fruitful and pathetic subjects of Dr. C.'s 
complaint, that there is nothing sacred in the home of the slave ; that 
the master enters it with impunity and dissolves those ties of conju- 
gal fidelity by which the dearest relations of life are maintained. If 
it be so, it is a grievous offence, and sorrow and shame be on the ne- 
farious agent in that scene of depravity. 

"But it would seem that the negro's hut is not the only onethat 
may be exposed to the licentiousness, not indeed of lust but of slander. 

" In the passage above quoted, the charge is so general that no one 
may consider himself exempted. It is not made against the obscure, 
the low, the ignorant, the vulgar. It attaches to whatever in that 
country is deemed to be noble, elegant, refined, dignified or accom- 
plished. It is the slave's master — the planter's family — the home 
of the opulent — the educated, the distinguished; the bed of the 
chivalrous, the high-minded, the eminent in the council or the field, 
that is said to be desecrated by unfaithfulness." 

Are the natural children of a married man, any proofs of his un- 
faithfulness ? 

" Their wives and daughters, by their impurity, satiate the slave's 
revenge for the ignominy which, in the common course of events, 
taints his domestic joys ! ! " 

Does Dr. C. make this charge 1 What chapter 1 what page ? 

" On their part, they will complain, not of injury, but of insult. 
They will not be satisfied. with the limitations here and there inter- 
spersed, in the course of our author's remarks, because the evils of 
Slavery, as he describes them, are treated as inseparable from its ex- 
istence, and attach, in a great degree, to all slave-holders. The 
sin is on them all. The wrong, the injustice, the oppression is prac- 
tised by all ; and the retaliation and revenge, " by terrible connex- 
ion of crimes," falls upon all. The indignation, which it called up 
in the North by this mode of discussion, is and must be directed to 
all." 

Abolitionists accuse the virtuous part of the community of per- 



24 

petuating the system. Were there no humane slave-holders, the 
system would fall under the execrations of the civilized world. 

" The continuance or removal of Slavery is solely within the 
power of the domestic legislation of the States in which it exists. 

" On this point, I do not find that our author differs from the com- 
mon sentiment of his fellow-citizens ; though, indeed, I could have 
wished to see the political duty of the Northern States a little more 
distinctly affirmed. He does, however, declare that the question, 
' how Slavery shall be removed, is a question for the slave-holder, 
and one which he alone can fully answer; ' and that 'we have no 
right of interference, nor do we desire it.' 

" Upon this, I remark that there is in the book a singular dis- 
crepancy between the means and the end, and a direct assumption 
of the right which is disclaimed. 

" The means proposed are moral influences. To have an} r effect, 
they must find their way into the mind and heart of the slave-holder. 
The end, which we call abolition, the slave-holders consider a re- 
quest to give up, waste, annihilate, what they estimate to be worth to 
them about five hundred millions of dollars 

" The moral influence, which is to work this stupendous miracle in 
their hearts, is first to commence by persuading them that they are 
guilty of atrocious crime; then, it is to make them penitent for their 
deep transgressions, — and as penitence is nothing without reforma- 
tion, they are to be induced to part with this accumulation of ill-got- 
ten wealth, and surrender it at the instigation of an authorized min- 
ister of the gospel of peace ! ! " 

A modem Moses! And the king of Egypt said unto them, 
'Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, let the people from their work? 
get you unto your burdens.' " — Exodus, v. 4. 

" An Unitarian clergyman goes on a desperate enterprise, when he 
attempts to awe men or frighten them into a compliance with his 
will. He may deride, if he pleases, the arrogance of the slave-holder, 
and describe it as the consequence of power habitually maintained 
over one or two hundred dependents ; but what will the slave-holder 
say, in return, of that temper of mind which ventures to intimidate 
five millions of freemen, by menace, denunciation, and indignity." 

Where is the attempt to menace, or intimidate? I do not recol- 
lect any, unless he means the menace of the wrath of Heaven for 
sin. This I should suppose was part of a minister's vocation. 

" If, indeed, we mean to fight the slaves free, it is of no moment 
how angry we make their masters; but if we really intend to use 



25 

moral means and the powers of persuasion, it is extremely unfortu- 
nate that we give them strong reason to believe we are not sincere." 

Did David spurn the message of the prophet, who, after explaining 
to him his sin, said to him, thou art the man ? 

" The first open question is, does this book and its doctrines inter- 
fere with the internal condition and domestic arrangements of the 
slave-holding States ? 

" I say, they are intended to do it. Slavery is established by law; 
and the object of this publication is to abolish it." 

Not so ; but to persuade those who have a right to do it, that it is 
their duty. 

" The whole doctrine of his book is, that man, under no possible 
circumstances, can be rightfully made a slave." 

Then was it not the Dr.'s duty to express the opinion, since so 
much human misery results from holding him in Slavery ? 

" The force, therefore, that restrains the slave, is oppression, injus- 
tice, tyranny, despotism ; and if, against all this, a man may not 
rightfully rebel, if, when he is thus unjustly made a slave for life, and 
his wife and children are made slaves with him, he may not rise, in 
his strength or his madness, and shake off his chains, and stand 
gultless before God, with the blood of his oppressor on his hands, it 
is in vain to talk about human rights." 

These were the doctrines of our revolution ; but abolitionists pro- 
pose other means for the deliverance of the slave, which shall be 
more in accordance with the spirit of Christianity. The slave is a 
man, and knows he is deprived of the rights of a man. Is not this 
the inference to be drawn from their past insurrections — most of 
which occurred previous to the anti-slavery movements ? 

" It is absurd to tell of wrong without remedy. For every human 
wrong there is a remedy; by law, when the law provides one; and 
by resistance, when, under the color of law, instead of a remedy we 
find only a wrong. 

" Could we doubt a moment about this, if the law of Carolina 
should propose to detain every white traveller passing through its ter- 
ritory, and turn him on the plantation as a slave? " 
3 



26 

Suppose they should ; — should we have a right to remonstrate 
with them for doing so? or would this be incendiary — the doctrine 
of insurrection ? 

" In such case, the law would be no more invalid and unjust than 
Dr. C. represents the laws about negro slaves. But is there a heart 
in New-England that would not beat high with sympathy for the 
abused white man ? Is there an arm that would not reach him a 
dagger, if it could ? Is there a tribunal on earth, or any law of Heav- 
en, that would not excuse — excuse, did I say ? — that would not 
command him to watch for an opportunity, and make himself free 1 " 

" If a human being is made a slave under color of a law which is 
nothing but the law of force, which is against right, justice, and the 
will of God, which gives no title and can convey no property in his 
person, which is criminal and void in its conception and its continu- 
ance, all moral and Christian doctrine, all sound reasoning, and that 
spirit of humanity which makes man superior to a brute, give him 
the right of resistance and tell him to use it." 

Would the South permit these sentiments to be read to their 
slaves? or does the color of the skin deprive this argument of its 
force ? 

"'But,' says Dr. C. — 'alarmed, unquestionably, at the dangerous 
precipice to which he was tending' — 'government indeed, has or- 
dained Slavery, and to government the individual is in no case to 
offer resistance.' 

" Such a sentiment is fit only for a slave. It is the doctrine of 
passive obedience and non-resistance which was scouted from all 
human creeds, with the same breath that blew away the divine right 
of kings, and the dogmatical pretensions of the clergy. 

" Government is to be resisted by the sacred right of revolution, 
and the inherent and original right of rebellion, in those extreme and 
dreadful emergencies which cany with them their own justification. 
If government, when, without right, and against moral principle and 
Christian duty, it subjects two millions of human beings to abject 
Slavery, whom God made free, and intends, in his holy will, should 
continue to be free — if government may not, in such case, be resisted 
by them, all our sentiments of freedom are wrong — all reverence 
for our own revolution is folly — all respect for the liberty we enjoy 
is no more than idle pretension and senseless extravagance." 

Should the great whispering gallery convey these sentiments to 
the slave — what then ? But the author did not mean they should 
ba conveyed to him. He did riot address his ■ — books to them 



27 

pray do not condemn this pamphlet as incendiary, and unfit to be 
sent to the South on account of these sentiments. You know the 
gentleman's motive is to support the system of Slavery, and lengthen 
its continuance. , 

" Dr. Charming is not contented with subverting the principle. 
He assumes to forbid the sin." 

" It would be astonishing that, with his intellectual acuteness, he 
should have disregarded this plain distinction between his own course 
and his master's, but that, we know the power of enthusiasm, like 
Slavery, ' to blind its supporters to the plainest truth.' 

"Where is the authority for the declaration that there can be no 
property in a human being ? In the Bible t " 

Yes; as Christ is the Christian's lawgiver, every law, custom, 
and practice, which is a violation of his laws, is annulled by them. 
As holding human beings as property, is a flagrant violation of his 
law of love, the law which commands each of his followers to love 
his neighbor as himself, which would lead him to consult his neigh- 
bor's happiness as much as his own, holding him as property must 
by this law be sin ; and by another law, also — which says, " What- 
soever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto 
them." Now if any man feels he would like to be held as property, 
without the right of choosing his master, to be sold and bartered, as 
often as the interests or passions of his master might dictate, then 
has he a right, by this law, to hold his fellow-beings in slavery. 
Does not Christ forbid the custom, by his example, likewise? Does 
he not say, " If any man will serve me — let him follow me; " and 
again, " Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and 
take up his cross and follow me." How? Does he mean to follow 
his footsteps, or his example? Did Christ keep slaves? Did any 
of his disciples or apostles ? 

Paul sent a servant back to his master, and as this circumstance 
has been alleged in support of the lawfulness of Slavery, let us see 
how far it goes towards it. He begins his epistle to Philemon, 
Onesimus's master, by the usual salutations to his friends; he then 
commends the love, faith, and good works of Philemon, and adds, 
" Wherefore I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that 
which is convenient — yet, for love's sake, I rather beseech thee, for 
my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds — whom I 



28 

have sent again unto thee ; thou, therefore, receive him — not now 
as a servant, but above a servant as a brother — beloved. If thou 
count me therefore as a partner, receive him as myself; if he have 
wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put this on my account ; 1, Paul, 
have written it with my own hand, 1 will repay it. Having confi- 
dence in thy obedience, I wrote this unto thee, knowing that thou 
wilt also do even more than I say." Observe, he says, he might be 
much bold in Christ to enjoin him to do it. Does not this imply 
that, according to the laws of Christianity, he could enjoin him to 
do as he said, but preferred beseeching him because he knew his 
petition would be attended to, and was more in accordance with 
his love toward him. 

When such arguments, as this circumstance affords, are brought 
forward in defence of the cause, for want of better, it proves the 
case a lame one. This circumstance, I think, is the only instance 
mentioned of their having anything to do with Slavery. It has 
likewise been asserted, that the term servant, in Scripture, will admit 
of no other translation than slave. How does this read ? Phebe, a 
slave of Jesus Christ — Peter, a slave of Jesus Christ — is not this 
David the slave of Saul, the king? Blessed be the Lord God of 
Shem ; and Canaan shall be his slave. Was Canaan the servant of 
Shem, in the sense that we give to the term slave? Did they not 
inhabit different countries, of which each of them was the founder? 
The slave honoreth his master; if ye are my slaves, where is my 
honor? The translation of these passages in Scripture, you are 
aware, is servant, and, it appears, will not well bear to be translated 
slave, or if so, that there were two classes of slaves, the bond slave 
and the free slave. By the last passage, it appears that a servant, 
to whatever class he may belong, is bound to honor his master. 
Why then should we insist that Paul was addressing slaves when- 
ever he addressed servants ? Servants, be obedient to your masters, 
&c. And again, let as many of you as are under the yoke, count 
their own masters as worthy of all honor, that the name of God 
and of his doctrine be not blasphemed. (How ? by giving cause to 
say, that the Christian servant did not honor his master as the 
heathen servant did.) And they that have believing masters, let 
them not despise them — (viz. their servants,) because they are breth- 
ren^- but rather do them service, because they are faithful and be- 
loved, partakers of the benefit; these things teach and exhort — if 



29 

any man teach otherwise, &c. he is proud, knowing nothing, &c. 
Are not these the doctrines that our Christian ministers teach our 
hired servants? If he should offer the really pious hired servant 
different advice from this, would he be listened to as a Christian 
minister? The apostles would no doubt have given the same 
advice to slaves : but can this be construed into an approval of 
Slavery ? The abolition writings inculcate obedience on the part of 
the slave, and a patient endurance of their condition ; but yet they 
detest the system of Slavery on account of its sinfulness, and coun- 
sel the master to bestow on the slave bis freedom. 

Many other customs and practices prevailed in the time of our 
Saviour, that pious Christians of all denominations have ever de- 
nounced as sinful, which he left no direct precept to forbid. The 
amusements of the circus, the theatre, and amphitheatre, in which 
the lives of men were sacrificed by wild beasts, and in many other 
ways, he did not so much as name, or forbid, except by his example. 
How would he have looked at such places ? Do we ever read of 
his attending them ? Duelling, piracy, and polygamy escaped his 
direct censures; — but how could a^man 'engage in a duel with 
deadly weapons, without risking the life of his opponent ? There- 
fore, does he not violate the law, ' Thou shalt not kill ? ' Do not 
pirates intend to take the lives of the possessors of the property they 
are in quest of, if they cannot obtain it any other way ? there, the 
same law .is violated. Do they obtain it without taking life? even 
then the law ' Thou shalt not covet,' is violated. The custom of 
polygamy is condemned by implication, when he says, 'for this 
cause shall a man leave father and mother and cleave to his wife, 
and they twain shall be one flesh.' He does not say wives, or they 
three or they twenty shall be one flesh. 

Thus we see his laws reach every case of crime, though he seldom 
specifies even those of the most criminal character. 

The remarker asks if Dr. C. finds authority in history, for the 
declaration, that there can be no property in a human being. I reply 
that he does there find authority for this assertion. 

Consult history and we shall find that its pages does not 

sanction holding human beings as property by any title or claim 

that we possess for holding them as such. Man is a free agent • 

he owns himself; and while he does so, has a right to barter 

3* 



30 

himself, or his services, for any gocd that may seem to him an 
equivalent. 

History will show that the victims of Slavery mentioned in its 
pages, previous to the comparatively modern scheme of kidnapping 
them in Africa, became so by some voluntary act that reduced 
them to that condition. Captives taken in war were considered the 
lawful property of the captors. The man, therefore, that engaged 
in war, knew the risk he was running of placing himself in 
Slavery. 

I believe it will be found that most of the wars undertaken in 
ancient times were carried on by volunteers to the service. In the 
civilized countries of those periods, war was considered the most 
honorable profession, the direct road to glory, and to the highest dis- 
tinction of state. This motive crowded their ranks to overflowing, 
and was an inexhaustible source of Slavery. As war is the natural 
instincts of barbarians, they likewise furnished their full quota to the 
slave market, fully aware of their fate, in case of the failure of then- 
enterprise. As the result to both parties was exactly reciprocal, 
it must have tended greatly to reconcile the victim to his lot. 

The class of debtors likewise greatly increased the supply of the 
slave market. In ancient times, the personal services of the 
debtor were considered as lawfully due to the creditor, where 
the property of the debtor was not sufficient to satisfy his 
demands. If he did not need his services himself, he had a right 
to sell him to another, till his claims were satisfied. This law pre- 
vailed even among the Jews, with the proviso that they should go 
out free every seventh year. As running in debt is a voluntarj' act, 
.he person who did it consented to this condition of the act; and 
whether he had or had not reason to complain of it as an oppression, 
it must have been an ameliorating reflection that he was suffering 
by the operation of a law that was binding on a whole community, 
and not confined to any particular class, of which he might happen 
to be a member. Many crimes were then punished with Slavery, 
(for it was not then considered an enviable condition, preferable to a 
state of freedom,) as these crimes were always voluntary, the crimi- 
nal had no reason to complain of his lot, or of the laws which sub- 
jected him to it. These circumstances operated, no doubt, to keep the 
slaves in a state of tranquillity, favorable to the states in which they 
formed so numerous a class; as men will always suffer more patiently 



31 

the evils they have brought on themselves, than those that are 
unjustly inflicted on them by others. 

Man-stealing was then considered a capital offence, and pun- 
ished with death. It consisted, in seizing by violence, a man 
who had, been guilty of no crime, who had by no voluntary act, 
incurred the penalty of Slavery, and reducing him to that condi- 
tion. Now let us consider the means that have been employed to 
supply our market with this commodity. 

The ancestors of all our slaves were Africans. Had they ever 
committed any offence against our laws, or against any individual 
in our community ? On which of the above claims, then, do we 
found the right of fitting out vessels, with every necessary prepara- 
tion of manacles, chains, and cartwhips, powder, balls, and muskets, 
knives, daggers, and swords, trinkets, rum and tobacco, to go to the 
coast of Africa, there to seize on its unsuspecting, and innocent (as 
respects ourselves) inhabitants, to cram the holds of these "floating 
hells" with victims, to supply our Christian market with slaves? 
Have not these guiltless inhabitants of a foreign land been, without 
any shadow or pretence of right but that of force, feloniously kid- 
napped by American men-stealers, on their own shores, while pur- 
suing their peaceful avocations, within view of their own quiet 
dwellings? Nay, more ; have not their dwellings been forcibly 
entered, and their defenceless inhabitants violently torn from them ? 
Have not their little children, while indulging in their sports and 
gambols under the shade of their paternal palms, or pursuing the 
the gilded butterfly, or angling innocently at the brook, been inhu- 
manly seized upon, and torn from their frantic parents, as lawful 
prey ? Have not whole villages been enveloped in the midnight 
flame, while their unsuspecting inhabitants were quietly enjoying 
the repose of sleep, in order to seize on the wretched victims while 
endeavoring to make their escape from the devouring element. 
Have not the pretended disciples of him, who said, " Blessed are the 
peace-makers, for they shall be called the children of God," gone 
amongst them, and, by all the arts and allurements that have ever 
been found to rouse the unchristianized heart to action, sown discord 
and fomented wars between neighboring chiefs, in order to purchase 
the captives on both sides ? For what ? To supply our liberty- 
boasting, gospel-loving, and highly professing Christian community, 
with their cargo of human souls. To be thenceforth, with theii 
latest posterity, considered our lawful property. 



32 

But our slave-holders were not guilty of theheinious act above 
stated — therefore should not be styled men-stealers. True ; but does 
not purchasing the cargo of the man-stealer support the trade? 
Have we a right to inherit stolen property 1 Do we support the 
doctrine that the manner of obtaining property, does not in the 
least affect the right of possession ? I appeal to professors of Chris- 
tianity. Let them answer. 

Permit, me now to solicit attention to a few remarks on the subject 
of Slaveiy, as alluded to in the Eible, as this sacred book is referred 
to in justification of our system of slave-holding. Let us institute a 
short comparison between our system, and that mentioned in the 
Scriptures, which has been brought forward in justification of ours. 

In the first place, the example of Abraham has been quoted, the 
first of the Patriarchs, the father of the faithful, to whom, for his 
faithfulness, and obedience, " because he knew he would command 
his household and his children after him, that they should keep the 
way of the Lord, to do justice, and judgment; to whom also was made 
the promise, by covenant, "that in him and in his seed should all the 
nations of the earth be blessed," as giving sanction to our system of 
Slavery. And what was the system of Slaverj' as practiced by Abra- 
ham? Let us try to get hold of it. The first mention that is made of it 
is in these words : " and when Abraham had heard that his brother 
was taken captive, he armed his trained servants, bom in his house, 
three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them to Dan," (a distance 
of several days journey) and in the end brought back all the goods, 
and also brought again his brother Lot. Now, because Abraham 
called these men his servants born in his house, it is affirmed that 
they were his slaves, and subject to the same treatment as our 
slaves. But what are the evidences of this? Does not the account 
just given go to disprove the assertion ? Would our slave-holders 
trust themselves with this number of their slaves, fitted and equipped 
for battle, in a foreign country, without first promising them their 
liberty as a reward for their services ? If the expedition did not lead 
them beyond the limits of our jurisdiction, the inhabitants of the coun- 
tries which they passed would be- bound to protect them from the 
insurrection of their slaves. Notwithstanding this, I question whether 
any one of them would dare to» do it — much less to take them 
into a foreign country. 



33 

Again, where is the account of their task-masters, beatings, and 
mutilations? Is not the history of Abraham's life replete with 
evidence that this was not the kind of treatment his subjects re- 
ceived, nor the condition to which they were reduced? The next 
mention that is made of them, Abraham is complaining that he was 
childless, and that the steward of his house was this Eleazar of 
Damascus, whom, by his manner of expressing himself, he did not 
much like. He then continues, " Behold to me thou hast given no 
seed ; and one born in my house is my heir." Does it not appear 
by this complaint that by some law of the times regulating the 
succession to government, and the heirship to property, that Abra- 
ham did not feel himself at liberty to choose his heir? that, by this 
law, it was to be inherited by a servant born in his house, probably 
by that elder servant he afterwards mentioned, "that ruled over all 
he had." Else, why not have selected his heir from among his 
kindred ? for whom he appears to have retained a strong affection, 
as is evident from his having, after this, sworn his servant to select a 
wife for his son Isaac, from amongst them. Do not these facts 
prove and many others, that the relationship between Abraham and 
his servants was rather that of ruler and subject, than that of despot 
and slave ? 

Mention is likewise made of servants bought with his money. 
These, no doubt, were procured from the classes already enumera- 
ted, who had forfeited their liberty by some voluntary act, which 
made it lawful to purchase them. These were probably their 
domestic servants; and we do not read that they were treated differ- 
ently from those born in his house, or houses within his jurisdiction ; 
for it is not probable the three hundred and eighteen males selected, 
for actual service, with a proportionate number of females, and others 
unfit for service, were born in one house ; especially as it is stated 
that his dwelling was a tent. 

After this, we find Abraham calling the eldest servant of his house, 
that ruled over all that he had, and praying him to put his hand 
under his thigh, (the form of administering an oath, at the time) 
and swear to him, by the God of Heaven, that he would not take a 
wife to his son Isaac of the daughters of the Canaanites, but go into 
Abraham's country, to his kindred, and take a wife unto his son 
Isaac. Do our slaves choose wives for their master's sons ? The 
servant swears — and departs, with ten camels, and other servants, 



34 

probably as many as ten, (for all the goods of his master were in his 
hands.) At the first interview of the servant, or slave, (if thus you 
call him,) with the damsel who became Isaac's wife, we find him 
taking a golden ear-ring, of half a shekel's weight, and two bracelets 
for her hands, of ten shekels of gold, and presenting them to her, 
inquiring of her if there was room in her father's house for him and 
his company? We soon find him in her father's house and her 
brother providing for his camels, and giving him water to wash his 
feet, and the men's feet that were with him. Is this the way slaves 
are received? and all this before he had told his errand. When he 
had told it and was favorably received, "he brought forth jewels of 
silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebecca, 
and also gave precious things to her mother and brother." Are our 
slaves sent on long journeys, entrusted with ten camels, and as 
many slaves, loaded with the goods of their master, through coun- 
tries not under our jurisdiction, with discretionary powers to select 
wives for their master's sons, and to dispose of his goods as they 
please? Do the masters pray their slaves to do thus and so? If 
so, then is the parallel not unfavorable to our slave-holders, and 
may be brought in justification of their system. Nothing, in the 
whole account, can be construed into evidence that Abraham's ser- 
vants were harshly treated. We find Sarah at one time requesting 
her husband to send one of her bond-maids away. And why ? be- 
cause she said " she was despised in her eyes ; " her son was sent 
away with her, because Sarah saw him mocking, (probably herself;) 
this was not jealousy ; she was justified by the Almighty, who bid 
Abraham to comply with her request, but promised a blessing on Ish- 
mael because he was Abraham's son. 

These are all the circumstances related respecting Abraham's 
servants, excepting that they were all to partake of the covenant of 
circumcision, both the servant born in his house, and the one bought 
with his money ; and can we infer from them, that their condition 
was at all similar to that of our slaves ? 

We next come to the bondage of the children of Israel in Egypt, 
which originated in Joseph's being sold by his brethren to the 
Midianites, who sold him to Potiphar, "an officer of Pharaoh's 
and captain of the guard." How was this slave treated by his 
master? Why, he was made "overseer of his house, and all that 
he had ; he left all he had in Joseph's hand ; he knew not aught that 



35 

he had, save the bread which he did eat." After this, believing a 
false accusation against him, he was wroth with him, and cast him 
into prison. The manner of his release we know. It proved the 
means of placing him as ruler over Pharaoh's house, and all his 
people, slave though he were — " Only on the throne will I be great- 
er than thou." 

This led the way for the introduction of Joseph's family into 
Egypt. How were they received by Pharaoh? "The land of 
Egypt is before thee — in the best of the land, make thy father and 
brethren to dwell. In the land of Goshen let them dwell." Gen. 47. 
And Joseph placed his father and brethren in the land of Egypt, in 
the best of the land, in the land of Ramases, as Pharaoh had com- 
manded." After this, compelled by famine, the Egyptians, the 
subjects of Pharaoh, sold not only their possessions, but themselves 
also as servants to Pharaoh, in order to procure bread for themselves, 
and seed to sow the land to prevent another famine. They were 
then furnished with seed to sow their land, on condition that they 
should give a fifth part of the increase to Pharaoh, by way of tax. 
It is scarcely to be doubted, that, as the Israelites were strangers, and 
had their land given them by Pharaoh, and became his subjects, that 
they held it on the same condition as his other subjects. 

When, therefore, another Pharaoh arose, who knew not Joseph, 
and who did not feel himself bound by the same obligations of 
gratitude and esteem to treat his descendants with the same favor 
that had been shown to their ancestors, in the time of Joseph — we 
read that they were greatly oppressed by him. In what way? 
We do not read that the} r were dispossessed by him of their posses- 
sions, of the best of the land ; on the contrary they commenced their 
journey from the land of Ramases, the land which Pharaoh had 
given them. The}' had their dwellings amidst those of the inhabit- 
ants of the land ; descendants, probably, of the families that hap- 
pened to be located there at the time of their taking possession, and 
they were so similar to the dwellings of the other inhabitants, by 
which they were surrounded, that it was found necessary to put a 
mark on them, to distinguish them from the others, when the angel 
of the Lord passed through to smite their oppressors. In what, then, 
consisted their oppressions ? Let us read Exodus 1. "Now there 
arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph ; and he 
said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are 



36 

more, and mightier than we ; come on, now, let us deal wisely with 
them ; — lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there 
falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies and fight against 
us, and so get them up out of the land." (The doctrine of expediency 
this.) "Therefore, they did set over them task-masters to afflict them 
with their burden ; but the more they afflicted them, the more they 
multiplied and grew. The Egyptians made the children of Israel 
to serve with rigor; they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, 
in mortar and brick, and in all manner of service in the field." He 
likewise gave orders that all the sons of the Hebrew women should 
be destroyed at their birth ; but the Hebrew women did not suffer this 
affliction, — his agents being too merciful to attend to them. Their 
great oppression, then, consisted in having task-masters placed over 
them to compel them to work beyond their strength, as appears by 
the expression of the Almighty to Muses: "And the Lord said, I 
have surely seen the afflictions of my people, which are in Egj'pt, 
and have heard their cry, by reason of their task-masters : for I know 
their sorrows, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand 
of the Egyptians." Did he fail of his purpose ? 

Moses was the instrument by whom the message of the Most 
High, to let the children of Israel go free, was delivered to Pharaoh. 
He said, " Who is the Lord, that 1 should obey his voice, to let Israel 
go? I know not the Lord ; neither will I let Israel go." And he 
said to Moses and Aaron, "Wherefore do you let the people from 
their works? Get ye to your burdens ; and Pharaoh commanded, 
the same day, the task-masters and their officers, saying, Ye shall 
no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore. Let 
them go and gather straw for themselves. And the tale of the bricks 
which they did make heretofore, ye shall not diminish, for they be 
idle; therefore, they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God." 
Thus, by reason of the message, their burdens were increased. When 
they complained to Pharaoh, his constant reply was, "ye are idle, ye 
are idle." 

The children of Israel, finding this to be the effect of the message, 
began to reproach Moses and Aaron with having increased the hard- 
ships of their lot, — saying, " The Lord look upon you and judge, 
because ye have made our savor to be abhorred by Pharaoh." Moses 
likewise began to fear he had been an instrument of evil ; for he said, 
" Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people? Why is 



37 

it that thou hast sent me? For, since I came to Pharaoh to speak 
in thy name, he has done evil to this people ; neither hast thou de- 
livered them at all." 

Though this people were thus oppressed by Pharaoh, in having 
task-masters set over them, we do not read they wrought without 
wages. They made no complains of this. When Pharaoh's daughter 
was engaging Moses' mother to take the child and nurse him for her, 
not knowing her to be his mother, " she said to her, take this child 
away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages." 

Throughout the relation, there is no account of personal bondage, 
no indications ofi t, no signs or evidences. The Israelites could re- 
tire to their dwellings at night, be encircled by the objects and pledges 
of their affection, and go to repose on beds of their own providing, 
unharrassed by the fear of being roused from a bed of plank, by the 
cane of a master, or the broomstick of perhaps a still more capricious 
mistress, as their real or imaginary wants may direct. 

If oppressions like these, which have been shown to be far less ' 
grievous than those to which the personal bondage of the colored 
slave subjects him in our country, called forth the interference of an 
all-merciful and impartial God, what may we not expect from him, 
if he is the same to-day, yesterday, and forever, unless we repent and 
forsake our sins towards them. 

Let us now enter into a short examination of the kind and char- 
acter of Slavery that existed among the children of Israel after their 
settlement in the promised land. In the first place, we find that it 
was all under the regulation of law. No irresponsible power was to 
be exerted over the slave. We read nothing about task-masters ; 
these, probabty, being held in abhorrence. 

From the laws given by Moses, we may come at a pretty correct 
idea of their condition. I shall give them as they come in course. 
They are to be found in Ex. 21 : Lev. 25 : Deut. 15 : Deut. 23. 

The Hebrew servant was, in no case, to serve longer than six years, 
unless by his own choice; in the seventh, he was to go out free. If 
a man-servant, and he were married when he came into service, his 
wife must go out with him. If, during the period of his service, his 
master gave him a wife from among his servants, and he had chil- 
dren by her. the wife and children were not to go out with him ; be- 

4 



38 

cause evidently (as the Hebrew was not permitted to marry any other 
than a Hebrew woman) her time of service was not yet expired, 
unless it commenced prior to or at the exact period of his. 

A proviso is. however, made for the man who did not like to be 
separated from his family, during the remaining period of her service. 
If he found himself so well situated in his master's family, that he 
preferred remaining with him forever, viz. during his life time * he 
had a right to do so ; and by the ceremony of boring the ear, relin- 
quished his freedom forever ; he did not bind his children to serve 
after him, nor himself to serve his master's posterity. It was because 
he loved his master that he bound himself to him. 

It seems, by the succeeding paragraph, that women were some- 
times bethrothed to men, and then sold to them, that they might 
have an opportunity to ascertain before marriage how she would 
please him as a wife. If she did not please him, he was to let her 
be redeemed, and if he took another wife, her food and raiment and 
duty of marriage he was not to diminish. If he did not these things 
she was to go out free without money. Probably, by this law, do- 
mestic qualities were regarded in the choice of a wife. 

Verse 16 of the same chapter says, " And he that steal eth a man 
and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put 
to death." 

He was not, it seems, to steal him even from the neighboring 
nations, whom the Almighty abhorred and was about to exterminate 
for their sins. 

Verse 20th of the same chapter says, " If a man smite his servant 
or his maid with a rod, and she die under his band, he shall surely 
be punished ; but if he continue a day or two, he shall not be pun- 
shed ; he is his money." 

How does this differ from our laws on manslaughter. There was 
no malice aforethought; at least so our laws consider it, on the 
ground that it is better that ten guilty men escape, than that one in- 
nocent man perish. 

His being his money was likewise a circumstance in his favor. 
Observe the word smite. This word is never, in any passage of 
Scripture employed to mean scourge, whip, or flog, it is one blow.f 

* Cruden observes (who I believe is considered good authority by Christians,) that when 
forever is applied to man, it means his life time, or some limited period, and brings many 
passages to prove it. When applied to the Deity, it means eternity, because he is eternal. 

t See smite, scourge, stripes, itrike, in Cruden. 



« 39 

Observe, likewise, the word rod. If he had smitten him with an iron 
instrument, it would, by their laws, have been murder. 

These six cities shall be a refuge &c. that every one that killeth 
any person unawares may flee thither, and if he smite him with an 
instrument of iron, so that he die, he is a murderer : the murderer shall 
surely be put to death. Num. 35 : 15. 
The law, therefore, could not mean, if he whipped, flogged or beat 
him till he caused his death, he should not be punished. We do 
not read they ever employed this mode of punishment on their slaves ; 
and if^they did, their laws forbade more than forty stripes for one 
offence, and no law to prevent a fellow servant from giving evidence 
against his master if he exceeded. 

Verse 20 of the same chapter says, " If a man smite the eye of his 
servant, or the eye of his maid, that it perish, he shall let him go 
free for his eyes' sake ; if he smite out his man-servant's tooth or his 
maid-servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake." 
If mutilations were to give freedom to our slaves, how many would 
now remain in bondage ? 

Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant that is escaped 
from his master unto thee, he shall dwell with thee ; even among 
you, in that place which he shall choose, in one of thy gates, 
where it liketh him best. Thou shalt not oppress him. Deut. 23 : 15 

The Hebrew servant was not to be subjected to any kind of ill 
treatment. It is often repeated — Thou shalt not rule over him 
with rigor, for they are my servants which I brought forth out of 
the land of Egypt. 

When the African becomes a member of Christ's church, par- 
takes of his communion at the table of his saints, is he not Christ's 
servant % and should he not partake of the benefits of this law ? 

The heathen bond-servants had, probably in most cases, been 
transgressors of their own laws, or captives taken in war, and in 
either case, were likely to be a hardened, stubborn race, therefore more 
severity was permitted to be exercised towards them. 

When the Hebrew servant went out free on the seventh year, he 
was not to go away empty, — he was to be furnished liberally " out 
of the flock, and the flour, and the wine-press ; of that wherewith the 
Lord thy God, hath blessed thee, thou shalt give unto him." The 
heathen servant was not to partake of the benefit of the law of 
release ; they were to be held as a possession, and to be inherited by 



40 ♦ 

their children after them forever, or (according to Cruder) ) until the 
year of Jubilee, which is in accordance with the words of the decree, 
" Then thou shalt cause the trumpet of the Jubilee to sound ; in the 
day of atonement shall ye make the trumpet to sound ; and ye shall 
hallow the fiftieth 'year, and proclaim liberty throughout all the land, 
unto all the inhabitants thereof. It shall be a Jubilee unto you, and 
ye shall return every man to his family." 

I think I have given all the laws relative to the treatment of the 
Jewish servant contained in the books of Moses, and they are all the 
passages which throw light on his condition. 

We see by them that cruel and inhuman treatment of any class 
was forbidden ; that no law existed to prevent their being instructed 
in all the arts and knowledge of the country; \hey were to be cir- 
cumcised, and to partake of the passover, and to assist at their 
solemn assemblies : they were to do no servile work on the Sabbath, 
or at the time of their holy convocations, which happened three 
times a year, and lasted seven days. During the year of release, 
which was every seventh year, the ground was to lie fallow, and 
even the spontaneous fruits of the earth were not to be gathered, as 
the possession thereof belonged to the poor of the land. 

One word now on the justification of holding the Africans in slavery 
as being the descendants of Ham. Noah was a descendant in direct 
line from Seth. Every other branch of the posterity of Adam was cut 
off by the flood. Was Seth's posterity black ? Why? Ham was 
the second son of Noah. It was on Ham's youngest son, Canaan, 
that the curse, " a servant of servant's shall he be to his brethren," 
fell. Did this curse change the color of Canaan's skin ? How does 
his honor, McDuffie, make it out that the Africans are descendants of 
Ham? Can he show his authority? " The border of the Canaan- 
ites was from Sidon as thou earnest to Gerar, unto Gaza as thou 
goest unto Sodom and Gomorrah, and Hilmah, and Zeboim, even 
unto Lasha." These cities are included in the country of 
Palestine ; as its climate is temperate, I should infer that its 
inhabitants were not black, but tawny, as we see them at the pres- 
ent day. 

This was the country whose inhabitants the children of Israel 
were commanded by God to dispossess of their land, and to cut off 
as a nation for their sins, " And Israel vowed a vow to the Lord 
and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people, (viz. the Canaan- 



41 

ites) into my hands, then will I utterly destroy their cities. And 
the Lord hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered them the 
Canaanites, and they utterly destroyed them and their cities. 
And he called the name of the place Hormah." Num. 21st and 3d. 

After this, we find some remnants of them in possession of some of 
the strong-holds of the country ; these became tributary to the Israel- 
ites. Thus I suppose was fulfilled the curse, " a servant of servant's 
shall he be to his brethren" as the patriarchs, to whom the descen- 
dants of Ham became tributary, were the offspring of Shem, the 
brother of Ham, in direct line. [See the genealogy of Abraham.] 
Canaan, as we have stated, was the founder of a nation, and as in- 
dependent of his brethren till this time, (for anything we read in 
disproof ) as his brethren were of him. We never read of his 
being in personal bondage to any of them. Could it be proved that 
he was, would this give us a claim to the African's service, unless 
we could prove his descent from Canaan, and our own from Shem, 
as it was to his brother his services were due. 

Afterwards, it is said " God will put out those nations before thee 
by little and little; thou mayest not consume them at once, lest the 
beasts of the field increase upon thee " Deut. 7. By this it appears 
they were ultimately consumed. If not, can McDuffie shew this 
emigration of a colony of them to Africa ? 

Is it not as rational, and as consistent with our knowledge of facts, 
to suppose, that the stain of the African's skin has been produced by 
climate, as that it is the effect of a curse pronounced on his 
progenitors ? 

I have read of a colony of Portuguese, who, in times comparatively 
modern, I forget what century, had migrated to a tropical climate ; 
in the course of a few generations ; their skins and hair approximated 
very much in appearance and color to those of the natives of the 
country, who were blacks. 

Do gentlemen of the free States now say, admitting the African's 
skin to be stained by climate and not the effect of a curse, that his 
condition in this country is far worse than that of the Patriarchal, 
Egyp'ian, or Israe'itish servant or slave, that he has been unjustly, 
and feloniously obtained from his country, that continuing him in 
this condition is likely, according to the account of past ages, and 
the denunciations of the Omnipotent on the sin of oppression, to call 
down the vengeance of this avenger of the oppressed on us as a na- 
4* 



42 

tion? — what then? We have no slaves at home. We have no right 
to interfere with the institution of slavery in our sister States. There- 
fore what can we do ? 

Can you not use your your utmost influence to procure its aboli- 
tion in the District of Columbia, and in our Territories? While it 
remains there, it is a national sin, and involves us all in the guilt of 
its continuance. Our silence, on the subject of its continuance in 
the Districts, and Territories of the United States, sanctions it in our 
sister States; and while we sanction it, are we not partakers of the 
sin ? Gentlemen are aware that it is the sin of omission that is to 
draw forth the malediction of " Depart from me, ye cursed," &c. 
"For I was an hungered and ye gave me no meat," &c. It is a 
case of hunger and nakedness and imprisonment, that we plead. 
And may not abolitionists likewise say, that by reason of your 
silence on the subject of their petitions, and neglect of using the 
means in your power, that some of us are scourged, some stoned, 
some cast into prison, some killed, and some sent shamefully away? 

Abolitionists, as a body, do not solicit persecution ; they deprecate 
it — both on their own and their persecutor's account. I believe, 
however, very many of them have less fear of man who can only 
kill the body, but after that can do no more, than of him who can 
cast both soul and body into hell. My best wishes for your welfare, 
individually, leads me to hope that 3 T ou may be found of this class 
also — and that you may henceforth say, No mobocracy — no gag 
laws. But God speed abolitionists, in doing all they lawfully can 
to procure the abolition of slavery throughout the world. 

" This idea of going behind and beyond the law, to find a rule for 
human action in civil society is getting to be somewhat alarming. 

" One man thinks the law of marriage is a monopoly, and should 
be abolished ; another thinks a distillery is an abomination in the 
eye of Heaven, and that its owner is out of the protection of man- 
kind. Some men believe that there ought to be a community of 
goods, by a plain indication of Providence, and some, who do not 
care much about Providence, join in the denunciation of the laws. 
Some men think that the transportation of the Sunday mail is a 
great violation of holy time, and if they had their way would lay a 
weekly embargo on the post-office. Some men think that the law 
which punishes a felon with death, involves the whole country in 
the guilt of murder. Indeed, there is no end to the vagaries of the 
human intellect. If we once go beyond the law to ascertain in 



43 

what property or rights consist, we put everything in society on the 
wild ocean of uncertainty. The law is the expression of public wis- 
dom. When in public judgment it is wrong it will be changed. 

Is public sentiment always correct ? A whole world was once 
destroyed, because the public wisdom of the times was not in accord- 
ance with the wisdom which is from above. 

" If our Supreme Court could be asked the question whether hu- 
man law could convey any right of property against the principles 
of sound morality, religion and the will of God, I have no doubt 
they would by an iinanimous opinion decide that it could not. If 
they had to adjudicate on the question whether the law of Massa- 
chusetts before the constitution of 1780 did make property of a slave, 
they would as readily decide that it did. They have done so again 
and again." 

Then they must decide the law of Massachusetts before the con- 
stitution of 1780 was not contrary to the principles of sound moral- 
ity, religion, and the will of God, and therefore did make property 
of a slave. They could not decide that they were inconsistent with 
the will of God, therefore could not convey any right of property, 
and then say, that they did make property of a slave — unless they 
acted on the dough-face principle.* 

" If there is no law of the land that prohibits the free discussions 
of the most dangerous and exciting subjects of public inquiry ; if the 
necessary freedom of popular government does not permit the arm of 
the law to stop the pen or the press, it is on the presumption — which, 
like other fictions of law, is sometimes strangely at variance with fact 
— that there is a moral and prudential principle, quite as operative 
and efficacious for the protection of society. It is on'the presump- 
tion that they who have the power to move the mass of the commu- 
nity, will have the discretion to do it wisely ; that they, who by 
their education, talents, and learning, " preaching to stones would 
make them moveable," will take care that they do not remove the 
foundation stones upon which the temple of national liberty is 
erected." 

Yes, and they will take care, if the old stones prove defective, and 

* Apropos of dough-face: Did or did not the conduct of the Northern delegation, in the time of 
Randolph, justify that Quiz in coining this vilifying epithet? Whether it did or not, let U3 
make a compromise with the South, when we give up the right of speaking upon Slavery, that 
they also expunge this word from their vocahulary. 



44 

not likely to support the edifice, to supply their places with new 
ones, which will be likely to answer the purpose. 

" I know very well that Dr. Channing disclaims ' agitation' and 
all 'indiscriminate and inflammatory vituperation of the slave- 
holder.' But how much better than such vituperation are the highly- 
colored and exciting pictures of sin, ruin, disgrace, which this modern 
Angelo brings upon his canvass, in the freshness of instinctive life. 
How much more excusable are his strong appeals to duty and pride 
of character, and the lofty spirit of our people, which ring like the 
war-trumpet on the field of battle, to stir up the passions of mankind. 
But, are they true ? Suppose they are. How much is this a reason 
for quietness and peace. How much is the artist, whose splendid 
and costly engravings were lately burned by order of a court of jus- 
tice, excusable because every delineation of his pencil was most ex- 
actly faithful to nature. Truth, like nature, may not always be ex- 
hibited without the excitement of feelings, appetites and passions, 
that a wise and practical philosopher would deem it dangerous to 
move." 

When the ocean is wrought into fury by the sweeping tempest, 
there is danger to the property embarked on its bosom ; yet is the 
agitation beneficial in its results, giving salubrity to the atmosphere 
and supplying it with principle necessary to the support of vitality. 

Is it true that domestic Slavery is the perpetual and immoveable 
condition of our national existence ? 

Let us examine very summarily actual facts. Slavery is now 
firmly established in fourteen States and Territories of the Union and 
in the District of Columbia, the centre and common property of the 
whole. This slave district is the fairest and most fertile portion of 
the United States. It is the most progressive in population, the 
most extensive in territory, and of course most likely to advance in 
influence and political power in the government of the country. 
Without adopting in their full force all Dr. C.'s disparaging reflec- 
tions on the character of white men within a slave district, it is ob- 
vious that the circumstances under which they are placed are not 
very favorable to the operation of nice speculative morality when it 
comes in opposition to direct personal interest. The population, 
already five millions, will double and quadruple in a short time by 
force of its natural productiveness and by new immigration. The 
natives born grow up accustomed to the state of things around them." 

And therefore do not reflect on its sinfulness. 



45 

" The immigrants go there acquainted with the laws and customs 
of the country, which they prefer to those of the adjacent free States. 
They go to better their worldly affairs, and not as promulgators of a 
new faith, or reformers of existing principles." 

Yes, they go with their eyes open to the wickedness of the sys- 
tem. Is it strange, then, that they are proverbial for their cruelty ? 
" If the light within you become darkness, how great is that dark- 
ness.' 

" Slavery is established by law in this vast territory, and always 
has been from its first settlement by Europeans. This lav/ does not 
indeed change its proper character, but it is the indication of the 
sentiment of the people as to that character, and speaks the popular 
opinion of the country. By force of that law a slave is property, 
and may be owned, bought and sold as any other article of merchan- 
dize. Like articles of merchandize elsewhere, like leather, flour, 
sugar, cotton, coffee, ships, cloths, paper, or whatever is used among 
us for property, and with which the industry and enterprize of our 
citizens is concerned, this species of property is in the slave district 
the indirect means of a great proportion of all the activity and in- 
dustry which is there visible in the accumulation of profit. It is an 
item indeed in the aggregation of capital which is not here particu- 
larly the subject of barter, the item, namely, of disposable human 
labor. It resembles the value which is represented with as by the 
labor of oxen or horses which we know to be, though immensely 
less in amount, yet actually of very considerable consideration in the 
estimate of our New-England wealth." 

At the north we have substituted labor-saving machinery, for the 
machinery of human bones and sinews, and by it are enabled to offer 
to the eye of the traveller as great an appearance of comfort, in our 
cities, towns, villages, houses and cottages, in our roads, and modes 
of conveyance, notwithstanding our physical disadvantages of soil, 
climate, as is to be found in the slaveholding section of our country. 
With our kind of machinery, how much more comfort they might 
enjoy than we with our six months frost. I think I should like 
to go and partake it with them, though I should love my own New- 
England, still. 

"The professed owners of this property are of every grade and class 
of society in point of wealth, integrity and reputation, from the afiiu- 
ent planter with his thousand negroes, to the day-laborer who owns 
a single boy perhaps to diminish his mechanical drudgery ; from ths 



46 

statesman of high intelligence, and the clergyman of aknowledged 
probity, whose domestic establishments are served by their bondsmen 
and bondswomen, to the keeper of the gambling house or the bagnio, 
to whose deeds of infamy these servile subjects lend their enforced 
assistance. It ,is doubtful whether in the free States there is any 
one article of property which enters so extensively and minutely into 
all the ramifications of society. Our society is more divided into 
portions and detachments, having a general connection, to be sure, 
but not that intimate and close union which binds the inhabitants 
to the common interests of Slavery. When our woollen interest was 
threatened, the manufacturers of cotton thought they could get 
along pretty well. When our navigation interest was in danger, 
the commerce of the country most closely allied to it did not feel the 
apprehension of immediate dissolution. ]f at this moment any one 
or two of our most productive occupations were closed by a war or a 
tariff that should ruin them, the rest might go on with only their 
proportional share in the common calamity. But Slavery, wherever 
it exists, is the sensorium of the country. It is the one nerve/which 
runs through the whole political body, and connects every part of it 
with the seat of life." 

As long as it is the one nerve, other nerves will lie dormant — 
paralyze this nerve, others will come into action, which, by their 
combined influence and power, will produce a healthier and more 
powerful system. 

" Before Slavery can cease in the United States, this vast property 
must be annihilated. It must be surrendered by consent of its own- 
ers or wrested from them by force of law. 

" Two hundred and fifty millions of dollars must be sacrificed by 
about four millions of people." 

What does this prove but that the slaves are wronged out of this 
amount of property ? It appears to me a man has a title to himself, 
if he has a title to anything. 

Slavery must be put down by force, or surrendered by consent of 
I owners, and until the New-Englander can be convinced of the 
duty of bestowing his property, acquired by honest industry, as a 
" votive offering," for the redemption of the slave, the slave-holder 
may innocently retain his grasp on property, to which, by the laws 
of God, he was never entitled ; and it is the extreme of childishness 
and folly to expect, or even to hope, that for the mere bauble of 
eternal life, and securing an inheritance in the Paradise of God, he 
may be induced to relinquish it. 



47 

The New-Englander must likewise be convinced that his sugar, 
rice, and tobacco, will come to him at as cheap a rate as they now 
do, or he will be likely to make some little resistance to the Dr.'s 
glorious scheme of universal emancipation. This is the substance of 
the remarks omitted here. 

" Dr. Channing proposes to melt the iron chain of the slave by the 
soft breath of peace ; he expects to dissolve his fetters by the charm 
of words. 

" He tells the slaveholder that he cannot have property in a hu- 
man being — that to hold him as property is * to inflict a great 
wrong, to incur the guilt of oppression ;' ' that man has received sa- 
cred, inalienable rights, which are violated by Slavery.' That Slavery 
is a mighty evil, and he proceeds to argue out these positions with 
all the learning of the schools. 

" If he spoke with the voice of an Archangel, and carried convic- 
tion to every planter in the whole region of Slavery, it is hard to be- 
lieve that such conviction would have any effect. Human nature 
must be improved and sublimated vastly beyond its present standard 
before such arguments on such a subject would have any practical 
effect. 

" But the whole of this reasoning will fall on deaf ears and mar- 
ble hearts. It will not be credited for a moment. Education, cus- 
tom, habits, all the forms of society, all the modes and manners of 
life combine to raise an atmosphere that will not transmit the sound. 
The law of the land refutes it. The teachings of the reverend, the 
learned, the eminent among them confound it. The immortal leader 
of the armies of freedom was a slaveholder." 

But gave freedom to his slaves in view of the approach of death. 

" The draftsman of the Declaration of Independence was a slave- 
holder." 

But said, when speaking of its sinfulness, that he trembled for his 
country when he considered that God is just. 

" Mathias professed to be a prophet. The elect Lady claimed lo 
work miracles. The Mormonites have some pretence to supernat- 
ural power, but none of them ever ventured on a greater extravagance 
than this. In a contest with Slavery, the church itself would be de- 
stroyed, so far at least as its influence in other respects would be 
concerned. But the church is first to be persuaded. The church 
at the south is composed of slave-holders. Its priests and its levites 
are slave-holders. Its temples are erected, its altars are maintained, 
its offerings are purchased with the labor of slaves." 



48 

No wonder, then, that its synods, and conferences, have decided 
that agitating the subject of abolition, is more sinful than holding 
human beings in Slavery. 

When nations are to perish in their sins, 
'Tis in the church the leprosy begins. 

This plague-spot was on our churches at the commencement of 
our political career, or the great mass of society would not now be 
quaking in apprehension of mortal agonies, from its contagious and 
fatal influences. 

" But, says Dr. C, ' Government should devote itself to this, as 
its great object. Legislatures should meet to free the slave.' " 

The Dr. evidently meant the legislatures of the slave-holding 
States. 

" There is yet another day-dream of the learned Doctor, which 
would amuse us by its extreme childishness, if the honest simplicity 
in which it is made, did not redeem it from ridicule. 

it c Were the colored population (of the slave States) to be assembled in 
Sunday schools, and were the whites to become their teachers, a new and 
interesting relation would be formed between the races, and an influence be 
exerted which would do much to ensure the gift of freedom.' 

" There is certainly no gainsaying, this proposition. The over- 
seer might teach them their catechism. Tlie field-driver, somewhat 
accustomed to the task of instruction, might give them lessons in 
the alphabet ; and the masters, when they were further advanced, 
might impress upon their minds Dr. Channing's homilies on the 
theory of property, and prove that all claim to it in a human being 
is altogether false and groundless." 

Childish indeed, in the Dr. to wish that the slave might be in- 
structed in the religion of Jesus, by their white brethren, and that 
they should be qualified to read his laws and precepts themselves! 

" With all our author's modes and appliances to boot, it hardly 
seems that he contemplates a substantial freedom to the slaves. 
He puts them like a boy on his coasting-sled, but seems to dread 
the velocity of their motion, and to try vainly to stop them in 
their way. 

" It is rather a transfer of masters than a freedom from all owner- 
ship, that is proposed. It is not, after all, that the slave is not to be 
considered as property, but that he is not to be the property of the 
present claimants. Thus it is said : 



49 

* l ' It may be asked whether, in calling the slave-holding States to abolish 

Eroperty in the slave, I intend that he should be immediately set free from all 
is present restraints. By no means. Nothing is further from my thoughts. 
The slave cannot rightfully and should not be owned by the individual. But, 
like every other citizen, he belongs to the community ; he is subject to the 
community, and the community has a right and is bound to continue all such 
restraints as its own safety, as the well-being of the slave demand. It would 
be cruelty, not kindness, to the latter, to give him a freedom which he is un- 
prepared to understand or enjoy.' 

" I confess I do not understand this nice distinction. I am sure 
the slave would not comprehend it. Whether he is under one man 
or all men, he is a slave still. How he can cease to be property and 
yet belong to the community I do not perceive." 

Is not the gentleman subject to the laws of the community in 
which he resides ? and does he see no difference between his case 
and that of the slave ? 

" It was for no high moral objects that the insurrection in St, 
Domingo was excited." 

It was in defence of their freedom, which had been granted them 
in a case of great public emergency, to induce them to fight for the 
preservation of the colony. Sometime after this, when efforts were 
made to reduce them again to a state of bondage, in the struggle 
between the whites and blacks, the horrors were committed by both 
parties, . of which so much has been said to prove the dangers of 
emancipation, and likewise the sanguinary disposition of the blacks, 
while the horrors committed by the whites are passed over in 
silence. 

I have said it was in. defence of their freedom they fought, and 
not to obtain it. Perhaps the gentleman makes a distinction between 
fighting to obtain freedom, and fig >ting in defence of it, as he seems 
to justify a resort to arms in one or the other of these cases. 

" It was for no moral improvement that the liberated slaves of that 
garden of the West-Indies have made it comparatively a desert." 

Recent accounts do not represent it as a desert. Gentlemen are 
well aware of these facts ; yet I did not like to let his allusion to St. 
Domingo pass unnoticed. 

" If the object which our author proposes is impracticable, the 
book is useless. If Slavery be the law of our national existence it is 
5 



50 

idle to urge its abolition. But we are pressed with a strong moral 
obligation." 

" We are bound, it is said, to use every virtuous influence for the 
abolition of Slavery. ' We are bound to encourage a manly religious 
discussion of it.' 

" I wholly deny this propostiion." 

Why is discussion so much deprecated by the supporters of 
Slavery ? Is it that they fear it will cause insurrection among the 
slaves? Or do they fear more that it may have a tendency to arouse 
the consciences of some of the pious old ladies of the South to an ex- 
amination of the subject. Somehow or other they are a class that, 
when they get hold of a matter, inquire and inquire, and talk and 
talk about it, till their husbands and sons are glad to do something 
to satisfy them, in order to get rid of hearing any more about it. Thus 
what they cannot accomplish by power, they bring about by the 
want of it. Is it not so ? 

While on the subject of the ladies, permit me to suggest, whether 
the right of talking at home, and the right of petitioning their 
high-minded and chivalrous lords in their legislative halls, are all 
the means in their power of influencing the councils of the nation. 
Is it treating them with the courtesy prescribed by the regulations of 
chivalry, to nail all their petitions to the table? more especially 
when the prayer of their petition is to obtain protection for a large 
class of their sex from the very injuries and insults for which the 
order of chivalry was originally instituted ? 

" I see no obligation to interfere with the domestic laws of the 
South in regard to Slavery any more than with the internal affairs 
of any private domicil in the country. We have not made those 
laws and we cannot repeal thern. If there are slaves there, they do 
not belong to us. We cannot give them freedom. If Slavery be a 
great sin it does not lie upon our consciences. 

" I am at a loss to ascertain why this sin of other people, in which 
we have no agency, bears so heavily on our hearts, unless, like the 
mother of Cuddie Headrig, in Old Mortality, we are ready to exclaim, 
' With this auld and brief breath will I testify against the backsli- 
dings, defections, defalcations, and declinings of the land, against 
the grievances and the causes of wrath ! ' 

" But it seems to me, if we are bound to talk so much, we may be 
obliged to do something. We must do what we can to give efficacy 
to our preaching. We must not ease our consciences altogether at 



51 

the expense of other people. We must be willing to share the loss 
which will fall on our dear friends at the South, when they take 
our gratuitous advice and give liberty to their slaves. Are we ready 
to do this ? " 

What compensation had Pharaoh for the same sacrifice? Did 
the children of Israel leave with him their jewels, ear-rings, &c. 

" I feel that our Constitution was a compromise, in which we 
agreed that each State should, in its own domestic affairs, be sove- 
reign and independent', and that it is the highest infraction of all 
moral principle to violate the obligations which our contract imposes 
on us. I cannot reconcile it to my conscience, while I daily and 
hourly enjoy the blessings of this republican government, to take 
back any part of the price that was paid for it." 

Did our fathers, in this compromise, engage never to discuss this 
subject among themselves? did the compromise bind our ministers 
of the gospel not to think of the subject in their closets, or not pub- 
licly to express the results of their prayerful examination? Did the 
Northern patriot bind his patriot son, who should have an opportunity 
to witness the effects of Slavery on the honor and welfare of our com- 
mon country, not to express his convictions, if he should find its effects 
on both to be predjudicial ? Did they bind the citizens of the free 
States never to expostulate with their Southern brethren on the 
subject? If so, it appears to me they wrote grievousness by a 
law which their sons should annul in obedience to laws of higher 
authority. 

" I say nothing of the political duty of a citizen of Massachusetts 
to abstain from conduct which is dangerous to the peace of our 
fellow-citizens at the South, because men, whose consciences oblige 
them to carry on a moral war, think nothing of political duty. But 
I concur most unhesitatingly in the opinion which has been publicly 
advanced by distinguished jurists among us, and is a very general 
opinion among the profession of the law, that any measures obvious- 
ly tending to produce insurrection are equally a violation of political 
duty as those that are intended to excite it. Men are legally an- 
swerable for the natural consequences of their actions." 

He forgets the whispering gallery, and his own insurrectionary 
doctrines. 

" Slavery exists. There are more than two millions of slaves 
among; us. What can be done ? 



52 

" To keep them in Slavery is an evil, but not the unmitigated evil 
•which it is represented by the overstrained sensibility of enthusiasts. 
Heaven in its mercy never permits such unalloyed, evil to exist. 
The slaves as a class are better fed, better clad, less worked, and 
have less care and anxiety about their condition, than a great pro- 
portion of the hard working day-laborers in freedom. As they are 
deemed to be property, there is no inducement to treat them inhu- 
manly. If the work which thej r perform is to be performed by 
anybody, it is not probable that it could be done with less physical 
suffering than it is by the slaves. Our humanity need not be pained 
on this account."* 

If such is the depravity of human nature, no better argument 
could be advanced to prove the sinfulness of the system, which 
places one human being under the complete and arbitrary control of 
another, unprotected by law, and deprived even of the right of self- 
defence, against even the. most outrageous cruelty and the most 
debasing insults. « ■< ■' 

" If, however; by some supernatural operation — which is too fanci- 
ful to be made the subject of speculation — the owners would consent 
to give them up, and by a like miracle they could acquire the means 
of understanding the value of freedom, there are yet other evils of 
vastly more amount than the present evils of Slaver}*-. 

" Suppose them to emerge from Slavery, intelligent, moral and 
industrious, with all the capacity and inclinations of the white man. 

" They would be negroes still. Two distinct classes of men could 
not live upon terms of equality in the same country and under the 
same government. The more their intelligence, the greater would 
be the mutual hostility of the two races; and the final possession of 
power would be the result of a war of extermination, in which one or 
the other race would perish. 

" Is it supposed they could amalgamate? God forbid ! This is a 
matter of sentiment and taste, to be sure, upon which the feelings 
are to be umpires. There are those who see nothing disgusting in 
such an idea. But I fearlessly aver that, if this be the tendency 
and the result of our moral reformation, rather than our white Saxon 
race should degenerate into a tribe of tawny-colored Quadroons, 

* " It is doubtful if a child was ever in the slave country compelled to eat its own faeces, as 
■was proved in Pike's case at Salem ; or was subjected to the punishment of being tied under 
its arms and suspended in the vault of a necessary, as was proved in the case of a child of ten 
years old, in this city, some years since. The case of Washburn vs. Knight, tried in our 
Supreme Court, was unequalled for a series of cruelties which were proved, to the absolute 
horror of the jury. A man who would not harm a horse because he is his property, will some- 
times delight in torturing a fellow-being, in whose existence he has no pecuniary interest. There 
are tyrants everywhere." 



53 

rather than that our fair and beauteous females should give birth to 
the thick-lipped, woolly-headed children of African fathers, rather 
than the nice and delicate character of the American woman, which 
in its freshness and its pride is at once the cause and the consequence 
of civilization, should be debased and degraded by such indiscrimi- 
nate and beastly connection, rather than the negro should be seated 
in the halls of Congress, and his sooty complexion glare upon 'us 
from the bench of justice, rather than he should mingle with us in 
the familiar intercourse of domestic life and taint the atmosphere of 
our homes and firesides, — I will brave my share of all the 

RESPONSIBILITY OF KEEPING HIM IN SLAVERY. 

If the slave-holders were now as delicate on this subject as you 
are, where should we find the degenerate, tawny-colored quadroons, 
of whom you speak? I do not say this to favor the idea of amalga- 
mation. Do the white gentlemen and ladies of the free States se- 
lect their mates from among the colored people ? Do we see the col- 
ored people manifesting a strong desire for amalgamating with the 
whites ? One would think- from the horror he expresses at the very 
idea, that he would apprehend little danger from that quarter, unless 
he thinks his tastes peculiar to himself. 

" Dr. Channing reproves the abolitionists, and reprobates mobs. 
In these respects his book conforms to 4 public sentiment. The con- 
duct of the abolitionists is bad, and that of mobs worse ; but how 
one or the other can be the appropriate subject of his animadversion 
is not easily perceived. ^ 

" A man who adopts.h'is doctrine may be expected to act upon it. 
A very little infusion of zeal would make such an one a fanatic. If 
he preserved his reason to enable him to act consistently, and believed 
his immortal welfare depended on reforming other people's sins, he 
could hardly be blamed for any extravagance of action. The abo- 
litionist, if he is sincere, must be extravagant." 

What acts of extravagance has he yet committed against law 
or personal security ? 

" In respect to mobs, they are well represented as the usurpers of 
the people's rights, and the impersonation of despotism. It would 
be well if the sentiment expressed recently in the face of one of them 
by a worthy Alderman of our City could be adopted by our whole 
community : Over my dead body — said he — shall they be able to 
triumph over the laws. 

" Still, to a practical moralist, the question returns, whether he 



54 

who does that which will excite a mob, is not in some degree guilty 
of its excesses." 

Then were Paul, Stephen, and others guilty of the excesses they 
occasioned. 

" If we take human nature as we find it, we are sure that men, 
physically free, will resent what they deem insult and injustice ; 
and, when they know the law will not redress the supposed wrong, 
that they will take the remedy into their own hands. 

" He, therefore, who advertises an abolition meeting, if he has 
reasonable ground to believe it will produce a disturbance of the 
public peace, has an account to settle with his conscience, should 
such disturbance follow. 

" If meat — says the apostle — maketh my brother to offend, I will 
eat no meat while the world lasfeth." 

And yet the same apostle says, " Five times received I forty 
stripes save one, — thrice was I beaten with rods, once stoned, &c. 
What for? 

" Upon principles of established law, I have some doubt in regard 
to the legality of meetings which are known beforehand to be the 
cause of a mob. 

" It has long been a law that a mountebank who collects a crowd 
in the streets in front of his place of exhibition, to the disturbance of 
the neighborhood, is a nuisance ; and what is an abolition meeting 
but a new kind of Harlequinade, in which people are invited to see 
how the ocean might be bailed dry with a clam-shell ? 

" These mobs will cease when such spectacles cease. All good 
•citizens will discountenance them under all circumstances and at all 
times. But if the tide of popular feeling bursts its barriers and 
sweeps over the laws, the blame attaches to those whose moon-sick 
fancies raise these unmanageable floods." 

With such ideas, why could he not himself head a mob? 

Should these comments be branded with fanaticism, like most 
other writings which plead for the abolition of Slavery, I shall not 
regret having published them. 

If to believe in the Bible, and in the necessity of obeying its 
injunctions, be fanaticism, then am I fanatic, and trust I shall glory 
in the reproach, both in time and in eternity. In obedience to the 
command, " Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you 
do ye even so unto them," I have written them — fully convinced that 



55 

were I a slave, and not permitted to plead for myself, I should 
wish others, who were at liberty to plead for me, to remember my 
bond as though bound with me. 

The term fanatic, as it is now employed, no longer conveys to the 
vituous and intelligent mind the exclusive definition which is given 
to it in our dictionaries, viz : an enthusiast, a man mad with wild no- 
tions. It is understood, by them to mean, also, a philanthropist, one 
who devotes his time and talents to the amelioration of the condi- 
tion of his race ; one who teaches the necessity of obeying the com- 
mands and precepts of the gospel, in order to be saved by its author; 
one who fears God more than man, therefore will not sacrifice his 
hopes of an "inheritance eternal in the Heavens" for human ap- 
plause or any temporal interest. 

Its application, by people of the " baser sort " to the very efforts 
which have given immortality to a brilliant constellation of names 
in the eastern hemisphere, has been the means of giving it this last 
definition in their minds. 

A term which has been employed to stigmatize the proceedings 
and thwart the sublime and philanthropic efforts of a Wilberforce, 
Pitt, Fox, Burke, Luther, Calvin, Howard, Hannah More, and a 
host of others, who devoted their time and talents to the promotion 
of human welfare, and would be as applicable to the abolition efforts 
of our Franklin, Rush, Benozet, and 5 Pinkney, as to those which are 
now being made to effect the same object, can no longer be consider- 
ed by them as a reproach. 

For this reason, I do not deprecate its application to any efforts of 
mine ; and that all my readers may adopt the principles, and pursue 
that course of conduct which shall entitle them to this meed of 
praise, is the ardent wish of the writer of these comments. 

It appears to me to be due to the supposed feelings of conspicuous 
abolitionists, to observe that these comments were not written by 
any of them ; as probably they would not like to be suspected as 
their author. 



