Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/operationofappreOObeva 



THE OPERATION 



APPRENTICESHIP SYSTEM 



BRITISH COLONIES. 



A STATEMENT, 

THE SUBSTANCE OF WHICH WAS PRESENTED AND ADOPTED AT THE MEETING 

OF THE 

LIVERPOOL ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

DECEMBER 10th, 1837; 

WITH REFERENCES TO OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS, AUTHENTIC NAR- 
RATIVES, AND ADDITIONAL SUBSEQUENT INFORMATION. 



BY THE REV. WILLIAM BEVAN, 

One of the Secretaries of the Society. 



1838. 

D. MARPLES AND CO., T. TAYLOR AND CO., LIVERPOOL; 

HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO., LONDON. 

Price ]s. 

THE ENTIRE PROFITS WILL BE DEVOTED TO THE FUNDS OF THE SOCIETY. 



res. 75"75". /a y^^-^ 



D. MARPLUS AND CO., PRINTERS, LIVRRPOOL. 



THE OPERATION 



APPRENTICESHIP SYSTEM 



BRITISH COLONIES. 



In calling the attention of the friends of the Negroes to 
their degraded and injurious condition, under the Act passed 
by the British Parliament in the year 1833, and which took 
effect on the First of August, 1834, intituled, " An Act 
for the Abolition of Slavery throughout the British Colonies ; — 
for promotiny the industry of the Manumitted Slaves ; — and 
for compensating the Persons hitherto entitled to the services 
of such Slaves ;'''' — the following Abstract is submitted of the 
leading facts connected with the working of that measure. 
These are found on record, in parliamentry reports and 
oJD&cial documents, and are corroborated by the testimony of 
credible eye witnesses. 

I. — The Provisions of the Imperial Act, as 

AVOWED AND EXPOUNDED, BY THE ADMINIS- 
TRATION FROM WHOM IT EMANATED. 

When the Bill was brought into the House of Commons, 
by Mr. (now Lord) Stanley, he declared its purport to be 
as follows : — 

" That from, and after, the first day of August, 1834, slavery 
SHALL BE, AND IS, UTTERLY ABOLISHED, and declared unlawful, 
throughout the British Colonies, plantations, and possessions j — 



and that the power of the ivkip, as a stimulant to labour, shall 
cease; \h^t females shall not be flogged ; that neithei' master nor 
local magistrate, but only special magistrates, shall inflict punish- 
ment ; that the allowances hitherto granted by law shall be con- 
tinued ; that the Negro shall be liable to work for his master for a 
certain number of hours each week ; but that, subject to this obli- 
gation only, HE SHALL BE FREE ; — that no part of the money 
(that is, of the Twenty Millions,) shall be paid, until adequate and 
satisfactory provision has been made for carrying these principles 
into effect ; — and, finally, that the Act, in principle, is irrevocable ; 
it cannot be altered at all, till the alterations have received the 
assent of his Majesty, nor unless the alterations accomplish the 
objects of the Bill as fully as the Bill itself." — " I propose, then," 
he said, " that every slave, on the passing of this Act, shall forth- 
with have the power of claiming to be put in a situation, in which 
he shall enjoy all the privileges of a free man, — in which he shall 
feel no taint of his servile condition, — in which he shall be freed 
from the atrocious system of irresponsible corporeal punishment, 
— in which he shall have the full enjoyment of his domestic ties, 
—in which he shall not be compelled to see those that are nearest 
and dearest to him insulted by punishment, or liable to degrada- 
tion, — in which his evidence shall not be disputable in a court of 
justice, — in which his right to property of every description shall 
be as undisputed as every other class of the King's subjects, — in 
which he shall enjoy every right and every privilege of A free 
MAN, subject to this restriction, and this restriction only, that he 
shall, for a certain time, remain under contract to labour indus- 
triously in the service of his present owner, but his then em- 
ployer." 

Notwithstanding this explicit avowal, and although the 
conditions of the contract have been, in every respect, 
fulfilled by the British Government, and those required of 
the Negroes have been performed in the most exemplary 
manner; — the conditions required of the Colonists have 
been, and continue to be, in the majority of cases, violated. 
The Twenty Millions sterling has been freely and honorably 
paid ; but adequate and satisfactory provision for carrying 
into effect the design of the measure, has not been furnished. 

II. — The Perversions of the Act by the Colonial 
Legislatures. 

Preparatory to the payment of the Twenty Millions, the 
Orders in Council declared that such provision had been 
made ; and Mr. Stanley, on the part of the West Indians, 



assured the House, that they would heartily and sincerely 
concur in carrying out the intentions of the British peoj^le 
and Parliament. Lord Glenelg, in his despatch of the 
13th June, 1835, reminds Lord Sligo, that — 

" Between his Majesty, the British Parliament, and the people pa'S^*^,"!?'!- 
of Great Britain, on the one hand, and the persons entitled to the 278. i.' 1833-5. 
services of the manumitted slaves on the other, there may, with ^'^s®^^' 
little impropriety of language, be said to exist a solemn compact ; 
to the faithful performance of which, either party is bound by the 
most solemn obligations. If, on the one hand, the payment of 
the compensation money is the inevitable duty of this country; 
it is no less clearly due from the Colonial Legislatures, that they 
should strictly adhere to every one essential or valuable provision 
of those laws, which have been accepted by his Majesty as an 
' adequate and satisfactory' performance of the condition which 
Parliament imposed upon them, at the time of making the grant. 
For the Council and Assembly to retract any part of the offer, 
deliberately made by themselves, and on the footing of which their 
right to participate in the compensation fund was established, 
would be an infringement of the original compact, to which his 
Majesty could never assent.^' 

In his despatch to Sir Lionel Smith, bearing date 10th Parliamentary 
June, 1835, Lord Glenelg declares : — 27T1!' ^iWs. 

Page 85. 

" It is not merely the general principle of the law, and the Con- 
stitution of the British empire, but the express language of that 
particular statute, which declares any Colonial enactment 'null, 
void, and of no eflfect,' which is at variance with what the Impe- 
rial Legislature has prescribed." 

In the first instance, the principles of the British Act, 
were formally recognised by the General Acts of the Local 
Assemblies, and Councils, some of which preserved, in 
great measure, its phraseology ; but, by tha manifold 
repugnances of subsequent statutes, its spirit has been 
destroyed. By them, the purchased rights of the apprentices 
have been iniquitously infringed, to such an extent, that 
the present Governor of Jamaica, in his last Message, 
afiirms, that " the Island is subject to the reproach, that Dated Nov. lUh, 
the Negroes, in some respects, are now in a worse condition ^^^^' 
than they were in slavery." Into the details of these 
measures, an inquiry will be hereafter instituted ; suffice it 
to say, that without the approving sanction of the Home 
Government, they could not have been put in force. 



III.— The Instrumentality of Special Justices, 

FOR THE PURPOSE OF CARRYING THE PROVISIONS 

OF THE Imperial Act into effect; — the Impro- 
priety OF Magisterial Appointments; — and 
THE Impracticability of a due Administration 
of the Law, " according to the Spirit of 
the Act." 

To ensure the due execution of tlie Law, and the con- 
fidence and prosperity of the Apprentices, Stipendiary 
Magistrates were provided, to whom, and not to the 
Masters and Local Magistrates, the administration of the 
" Abolition Act" should be entrusted. The injudicious 
consignment of this authority to unqualified persons has 
been pregnant with mischief. Of those who were sent 
from this country, some have been utterly ignorant of the 
peculiar dialect, of the local circumstances, of the cherished 
habits, and of the relative position, of the Apprentices; 
others, from their previous occupation, have found no 
difficulty in entering into the sympathies and confidence of 
the Masters, and their inferiors ; till, submitting to the 
influence easily possessed over them, they have tacitly com- 
bined with the oppressors in acts of unblushing and flagrant 
violence ; whilst others, by a course of intemperance, have 
proved themselves unable to administer justice, and un- 
worthy of their office, till their career has been closed in 
premature death : and, among others appointed in the 
Colonies, many have been, either directly or indirectly, 
interested in the labour of the Negroes. 

There are, however, conscientious men in the commission, 
but they are so beset with difficulties in the colonial enact- 
ments, and with opposition from the Colonists, that their 
best-intentioned eff"orts repeatedly fail. " It is utterly im- 
possible for any Special Magistrate," observes a gentleman 
intimately connected with this part of the system, " whatever 
be his qualifications or powers of endurance, to perform 
his duties faithfully, without incurring obloquy, persecution, 
and even personal danger at the hands of the great bulk of 
the planters within his circle. Many are willing, but none 
are able. It is a system of compromise from end to end, in 
which principle is sacrificed to expediency, and the strong 
ai"e conciliated at the expense of the weak ; — the inde- 
pendence of the magistracy is annihilated ; it is no longer 



6 

safe to be honest." A. H. Beaumont, Esq., a resident for 
thirty years in Jamaica, and for four years a member of the 
House of Assembly, in his evidence before the Committee 
of the House of Commons, says, that the system of ap- 
prenticeship — 

" Has decidedly worked badly, very badly, because the special ^^^ i836°™ 
magistrates are entirely dependent upon the overseers or managers. Pagedsj— No. 
Society, and its relations, in Jamaica, are very differently consti- ^^^''' 
tuted to what they are in this country. A special magistrate 
there, is dependent upon the overseer in the vicinity of the pro- 
perty in which he resides, for all the comforts, and, in many 
instances, for the absolute necessaries of life. If, for instance, a 
special magistrate is sent for to any estate several miles from the 
town where he resides; on his arrival at the estate where he is to 
adjudicate between the parties, manager and slave, he is indebted 
to the overseer, one of these parties, for the refreshment he re- 
ceives, for there are very ievj inns in that part of the world ; he is 
indebted to him for corn for his horse, for every man uses his own 
horse, there being no stage coaches, and for every comfort he 
receives; and it is in the power of the overseer to make him exces- 
sively uncomfortable. But the fact is, that they do make the 
special magistrate very comfortable, and, to all intents and pur- 
poses, the special magistrate often becomes, in his feelings and 
opinions, a planter. I have heard overseers say, they like the new 
system well, because under the old system they had the respon- 
sibility of flogging; but that it is much better now, 'for instead 
of a black driver,' as one of them said, ' we have got a white one, 
and he answers the purpose quite as well.' And I do not believe 
that the c[uantity of human suffering has decreased, and that I 
declare most solemnly, by the adoption of the apprenticeship." 

If, as in the case of Dr. Palmer, the plain meaning of the 
British Act is adopted, and justice is dispensed accordingly, 
the functionary is subjected to the contempt and hatred of 
his brethren in the judicial commission, and to the rage and 
annoyance of the Colonists ; if, indeed, his fidelity do not 
issue in his degradation from the bench. The Report of the 
Commissioners appointed to investigate the official conduct 
of that gentleman, concludes with this extraordinary sen- 
tence : — 

" Having been called upon to report, and give an opinion, on Printed Eeport. 
the administration of the law by the special justices of Saint- 
Thomas-in-the-Vale, we must observe, that we consider Special 
Justice Palmer has administered the Abolition Law in the spirit' 
of the English Abolition Act ; that in his administration of the 



6 

law, he has adapted it rather to the comprehension of free men, 
than to the understanding of apprenticed labourers ; and that the 
present state of Saint-Thomas-in-the-Vale is to be attributed to 
such a mode of administration of the Abolition Law. 

" Given under our hands, at Spanish Town, this 22d day of 
October, 1836. 

"James Geddes, Chairman. 

" Charles Stewart. 

" William F. Marlton, Special Justice. 

" Henry Walsh, Special Justice." 

The Commissioners, thus unanimously affixing their sig- 
natures to this remarkable charge, prepared the way for 
Dr. Palmer's suspension by the Governor, and his ultimate 
discharge under the direction of Lord Glenelg-. It cannot 
be disguised, that, though the plea for his suspension was 
" perverse conduct in the administration of the law," he 
was sacrificed to appease the clamour, and obtain the good 
will, of the planters. He was convicted of the crime of 
explaining the reasons of his decisions according to the 
principles avowed by the British Parliament, and was 
condemned as guilty of " Administering the Abolition Law, 
according to the Spirit of the English Abolition Acty 

On the other hand, those who have been removed on 
account of an opposite course, who have become notorious 
for their partiality and violence, have been the favourites 
of the masters. The strongest and most eulogistic expres- 
sions of sympathy have been tendered to them ; and sub- 
scriptions have been raised, by public advertisement, for the 
purchase of some tribute of gratitude, in return for their 
kindness to the oppressors, in the administration of the 
law, not according to the version of Dr. Palmer, which 
was in harmony with " the spirit of the English Abolition 
Acty 

Report of Com- " I believe this," says Mr. Beaumont, in his examination before 
mons Committee, ^j^g Committee, " that it is impossible for any man, however pure 

looD : irage ooo — ii-i* t* 

No. 3997. and virtuous he may be, leaving' this country to go to Jamaica, 

and perform the duties of a Special Magistrate there, for twelve 
months, without suffering one of the two things, either becoming, 
to all intents and purposes, in his feelings, a planter, or else quar- 
relling with the planters." 

Encouraged by their successful attempt on Dr. Palmer 
and others, they are engaged in further plots against un- 
popular magistrates ; whilst it has been matter of constant 



complaint, that no sufficient protection is afiforcled those, who, 
in the exercise of their authority, persist in endeavour- 
ing to do justice, as well to the apprentice as to the 
employer. Lord Glenelg, in a despatch to Lord Sligo, of 
the 11th of April, 1836, conveys the following instruction: — 

" You will transmit to the Council, and to the Assembly, mes- Eepoit commons 
sages suggesting to each of those bodies the propriety of consider- Appendi^^plTo?,' 
ing, with reference to the actions lately brought against the Special No. 24. 
Magistrates, the necessity of some more effectual provision for pro- 
tecting those officers in the faithful discharge of their duly." 

The Committee of the House of Commons, in bringing 
up their report on the 13th of August, 1836, take especial 
notice of this evil : — 

" To the principle involved in this objection, your Committee Reportof com- 
attach the utmost importance. They are of opinion, that the be- ^30^^ v^t. ^^ 
neficial working of the present system, and the full protection of 
the rights of the apprentices, depend even more upon the adminis- 
tration of the law, than on the provisions of the law itself. They 
consider it of the greatest consequence, that the independence of 
the Special Magistrates, in the discharge of their duty, should be 
effectually maintained ; and that, while they are subject to a vigi- 
lant superintendence on the part of the Executive Government, 
they should not be exposed to any well-founded apprehension of 
a want of due protection against vexatious prosecutions.'' 

After tliese recommendations, some alteration might have 
been anticipated ; but it was found by Joseph Sturge, Esq., 
during his recent visit to the West Indies, that it had not 
been made. 

It has also been attempted to render nugatory the efforts 
of Special Magistrates by police laws, and the establish- 
ment over them of an extended jurisdiction by the Court 
of Quarter Sessions. In reference to the former. Lord 
Aberdeen comments upon a Barbadoes Act, in his despatch 
to Sir Lionel Smith, of the 10th of January, 1835. 

" The Rural Police Act, I regret to observe, presents difficulties ParUamentary 
of an insuperable character. Under the name of Commissioners, 27T1!' Tssa^i. 
it transfers to the members of the House of Assembly, one of the ^^ge 75. 
most important functions of the Executive Government. The 
police, of which the Assembly claim the government to themselves, 
are to give effect to the law for the abolition of slavery. Parlia- 
ment gave and received the most distinct pledges, that the execu- 
tion of the new system should be confided to those who had no 



8 

personal connexion with slavery or apprenticeship. To enable 
His Majesty's Government to fulfil that pledge, the people of this 
kingdom, by their representatives, cheerfully subjected themselves 
to a large annual expenditure. But this Act would entirely r-everse 
that policy. Leaving the Special Magistrate to be named by the 
Crown, it places him, and the police, through whose ministry he 
must act, under the immediate direction and control of a body of 
gentlemen, every one of whom, in his individual capacity, will 
probably, as an employer of apprentices, be amenable to those 
magistrates, and to that police. The Assembly, by virtue of their 
majority in the Commission, acquire for themselves a legislative 
power, from all participation in which His Majesty is excluded, 
and over which no eflFective check can be exercised, even by the 
Council." 

Lord Glenelg refers to the latter in his despatch to Lord 
Sligo of the 13th of June, 1835. 

Parliamentary " I perceive it is enacted, that the Courts of Quarter Sessions 

Papers, P^rt^ ^^^^ ^^■^^ cognizance of offences committed by apprenticed la- 
Pagei4. bourers, in the same manner as in cases of free persons. The 

general rule 1 apprehend to be, that every misdemeanour commit- 
ted by free persons, is cognizable at the Quarter Sessions. If the 
intention be to render the apprentices amenable to the same tribu- 
nals for every misdemeanour they may commit, then, as every 
disobedience to the statute law, under which they are placed, is an 
offence of that character, the Quarter Sessions, or, in other terms, 
the local Magistracy, will indirecthj acquire that jurisdiction, 
tvhich has been studiously withholden from them by Parliament." 

By means such as these, have endeavours been made to 
render the Special Justices (appointed to secure the rights 
of the apprentices) subservient to the will of the planters, 
attorneys, and overseers ; or, by some legislative provision, 
to supersede their authority, and set their judgments aside. 

IV. — The Failure or Equitable and Humane 
Efforts of Local Governors. 

Where Colonial authority has interposed to prevent the 
cruelty that has been perpetrated, it has been met with 
opposition ; or by attempts, too successfully made, to secure 
the removal of the obnoxious party. In one of the de- 
spatches of Sir Lionel Smith from Barbadoes, dated May 1, 
1834, speaking of a message he sent down to the House 
of Assembly on the flogging of slaves, in which he recom- 



9 

mends the abolishing of such a power by owners, or em- 
ployers, in anticipation of the system which was to commen 
on the 1st of August, and the confining- of that power to 
magistrates only, he says to Mr. Secretary Spring Rice, — 

" I enclose you the reply of the House to my recornmendation. Parliamentary 
from which you will perceive that there is little chance of their syTi!' ^ma-b. 
attending to it." Page oo. 

In another, dated aCth of August, 1834, he says, — 

" The Police Bill was deferred till the eleventh hour, purposely, idem, page 75. 
I believe, to force my assent." 

In the examination of Mr. Robert Russell before the 
Committee of the House of Commons, as the confidential 
clerk of the Governor, he was asked, 

" Was the Governor enabled, by law, to put an end to the sys- Report commons 
tern of the corporeal punishment of females in the workhouses?" pa^J'i'ls— No!*' ' 
He replied, " No, he was not ; one reason assigned for its conti- 5223. 
nuance was, that the Gaol Act, and the Act for building Houses 
of Correction and Gaols, gave the power to the Local Justices to 
frame such rules and regulations for the government of prisons, as 
thei/ thought Jit." 

" By whom was the punishment directed ?" " By the Custodes 
and Justices of the parishes." 

"Was it in an official communication made to the Government, 
which came to your knowledge, that this was stated ?" " Yes." 

In an address to the House of Assembly, Lord SI igo Date, February, 
reproves their neglect of his recommendations. ^*^^" 

" The very extraordinary nature of the message I have received 
from the House of Assembly, compels me to point out to the 
Legislature of Jamaica, the position in which the conduct of one 
of its branches has placed the Colony ; to that branch, therefore, 
must I more particularly address myself, while I review its pro- 
ceedings during the present Session, — while I point out what dis- 
position it has evinced to meet the wishes of the Mother Country. 
Two messages I have recently sent dovfn, on the subject of the 
Police Bill, and the Act in aid, have placed my views of the man- 
ner in which these two measures have been treated in the Assembly, 
in too clear a light to require more than a very few remarks. I 
pressed on you the establishment of more Courts of Assize, so 
strongly recommended by the presentment of the Grand Jury. 
You took no notice of it. A revision of the laws affecting the 
discipline of the gaols, and other places of confinement, was re- 
commended to you. All these subjects have remained unnoticed. 



10 

The whipping of females, you were informed by me, officially, 
WAS IN PRACTICE ; and I called upon you to make enactments 
to put an end to conduct so repugnant to humanity, and so con- 
trary TO LAW. So far from passing an Act to prevent the- re- 
currence of such cruelty, you have in no loay expressed your disap- 
probation of it. I communicated to you my opinion, and that of 
the Secretary of State, of the injustice of cutting off the hair of 
females in the House of Correction, previous to trial. You have 
paid no attention to the subject. I informed the House, that in 
the question of the British Government, the taxation imposed, by 
the local authorities, on the property of apprentices was quite illegal. 
You totally disregarded this suggestion. I sent you down no less 
than four messages on the subject of an extended system of educa- 
tion; — as no measure on the subject has emanated from the 
House, can I do otherwise than conclude, that you are indifferent 
to it? I informed you that £25,000 sterling had been voted, by 
England, for the support of education in the Colonies, with the 
promise of still further assistance being afforded ; and you have 
, taken no steps to make it available. I transmitted to you de- 

spatches of the Secretary of State, recommending the repeal of the 
33d canon, with a view to increase religious instruction in the 
Colony. You have not attended to the recommendation. I recom- 
mended to you the introduction of an Emigration Bill. I pointed 
out to you the injury done to the poorer classes of the claimants 
for compensation, by the schemes of interested persons. I com- 
municated to you the circumstances arising out of your own deci- 
sion, relating to the Police Bill. Yoit have taken no notice of it." 

sturges Journal: xliG noble Marquis, subsequently to his departure from 

^"^^ ^ ' the Colony, has been loaded with opprobrium by the local 

functionaries; accusations of calumny and falsehood have 

been unsparingly heaped upon him ; and, in a debate in 

the House of Assembly on the 9th of February, 1837, he 

Idem, page 188. was made the subject of a violent attack, was "described 
as the calamity of Jamaica, and threatened with impeach- 
ment." 

Thus are the benevolent endeavours of the faithful repre- 
sentative of Britain's chief magistrate set at nought, by 
the contumacious defiance of a local legislature. 

V. — The Inefficiency of the Interference of the 
PIoME Government. 

In many cases this interference has only extended to 
suggestions or recommendations to the Colonial Assemblies ; 



11 

whereas the Government of England undertook the charge 
oif responsible control. The laws passed in those Houses 
have been so constructed, that it has not been easy to 
detect the covert design to perpetuate abuses, under the 
name and pretensions of remedial measures. In the ex- 
amination of A. H. Beaumont, Esq., he was asked, 

" You do not think the security which is afforded, by the power Report Commons 
of the Executive, and of the Government at home, is sufficient ?" f'^^^sw-no^^'' 
" No. For the reason I have given. A clause may appear, to per- 43u3. 
sons that are not acquainted with local circumstances, to be highly 
expedient, which may be extremely tyrannical." 

This gentleman's long residence in the island, his occu- 
pation as a planter, and his experience as a member of the 
Assembly, entitle his evidence on this matter to some con- 
sideration ; while the appalling history of the Colonies, 
under the operation of the system, yields ample confirmation 
of its truth. Lord Sligo represented to the Colonial Office 
that the whipping of females was continued under gaol 
acts ; as he says, in a letter to Joseph Sturge, Esq., — 

" I mentioned to you, that I had sent home certainly above 30 
cases of females flogged in the Houses of Correction, and you can 
see them all in a House of Lords' Book, No. 232. You will see 
each case specified in it. It was proved, in more than one in- 
stance, that this flogging, which took place in St. Catherine's 
workhouse, was by direction of Mr. Charles Gordon, a magis- 
trate. When a new commission was issued, in consequence of a 
new Custos being appointed to St. Catherine's parish, I desired 
the Custos to strike out Mr. Charles Gordon's name, and not to 
allow him to qualify. He has become a magistrate since, and I 
mentioned the matter to the Colonial Office. Whether he has 
been struck out or not, I don't know. All this you may mention 
as having been communicated hj me to you." 

Alluding to several reports of this inhuman outrage, 
Lord Glenelg thus conveys his instructions to the Noble 
Marquis, in his despatch of the 28th June, 1836 : — 

" If the law of Jamaica really authorises this practice of whip- papers'"part¥- 
ping females on the treadmill ; or if any reasonable doubt exists lee. i.' i836. ' 
respecting its legality, there is the most urgent cause for the inter- ■^''^se370. 
ference of the Legislature. Unfortunately, this is not a solitary 
or insulated occurrence. Your Lordship has, on several occa- 
sions, adverted to the preya/ence of the same custom. You will, 
therefore, signify to the Council and Assembly of Jamaica, his 



12 



Parliamentaiy 
Papers, part 3 ; 
166. 1. 1833. 
Page 71. 



Parliamentary 
Papers, part 3 ; 
166. 1. 1836. 
Page 73. 



Majesty's wish, that they should consider how far the law demands 
amendment, or requires explanation, in order to protect the female 
prisoners from this disgraceful and humiliating mode of punish- 
ment. It is really necessary that some effectual measures should 
be taken for the entire suppression of a practice so justly repulsive 
to the feelings of society at large, and so strongly stigmatised by 
the recorded votes and deliberations of both Houses of Parliament." 

How this wish was considered, the subsequent proceedings 
in the houses of correction testify, where this indecent 
cruelty is still perpetrated. 

In his despatch of the 17th August, 1835, after a lengthened 
statement of the bad effects of the eight-hours' system, and 
a strong expression of his own convictions on the matter, 
Lord Sligo proceeds: — 

" Much may depend on the line which may be adopted by the 
Government with regard to the eight hours' system. I cannot help 
saying, that the minds of the Negroes would be by far more satis- 
field, if the nine hours' system were adopted ; but finding that I 
cannot by law enforce it, I deem it a duty to seek your instruc- 
tions on what I deem so important a point." 

Lord Glenelg, in reply, says, in his despatch, 5th October, 
1835,— 

"A recommendation to secure to the labourers, for the cultiva- 
tion of their provision grounds, the afternoon of every Friday, 
might be addressed to the Council and Assembly; and the respon- 
sibiJty of rejecting that salutary proposal might, in that manner, 
be thrown upon them : but I am strongly opposed to proceedings 
of this nature, except on the most urgent and serious occasions. 
Enough, and, in truth, far more than enough, has already occurred, 
to induce the Negro population to draw invidious distinctions 
between the disposition toivards them by the Executive Government 
on the one hand, and of the local Legislature on the other; and 
however inevitable may have been the causes which have com- 
pelled the Ministers of the Crown, or the Governors of the island, 
to provoke this unfortunate contrast, it is obviously pregnant with 
many great evils. — I, therefore, think it more wise, to acquiesce 
silently in the inconvenience which the refusal of the half Friday 
in every week may occasion, than to enter into a contest for the 
redress of the evil, with a distinct conviction, that though there is 
no prospect of success, there is a high probability of widening the 
breach, which it is my duty, as far as possible, to close." 

In a letter read to a public meeting, by Joseph Sturge, Esq., 
from the Marquis of Sligo, 



13 

" His Lordship said, that he disapproved of what was doing 
in Jamaica ; — that laws ivere passed, and not disalloived, which, 
in his opinion, infringed strongly on the Abolition Law ; that he 
had represented these facts to the Colonial Office, and had not 
yet found out that the slightest notice had been taken of them. 
lie had no wish to injure his party, — but he had a stronger party 
feeling for the poor blacks, whom he had tried to elevate in the 
scale of human nature; but he was, he confessed, to use a vulgar 
phrase, sick, sore, and sorry, to see all his efforts upset." 

" The late Governor, the Marquis of Sligo," says Mr. Sturge, ^'^'^^^^'370"^"'^' = 
" after he had become acquainted with the oppressions to which 
the Negroes were subjected, endeavoured, with great firmness and 
magnanimity, to protect them in the enjoyment of their rights. 
He experienced far less difficulty from the turbulent violence of 
the Colonists, than from the apathy or concealed hostility of the 
Colonial Office, which subsequently led to his resignation of the 
Government.'J 

So then, the Home Government pleads for its inaction, 
the utter hopelessness of attempting- any intervention, and 
the danger of affronting- those who have broken faith by 
an utter disregard of the solemn assurances they gave, to 
the Parliament and nation, that they would heartily and 
sincerely concur in carrying out the intentions of the British 
Legislature : while the Colonists, on the other hand, plead 
in defence of the repugnancy of their enactments to those 
very intentions, the continued tacit approval of the Govern- 
ment of the mother country. By this course of reciprocal 
evasion and jugglery, all hope is precluded of any amelio- 
ration in the condition of the negro, so long as a single 
relic of the present system is preserved. 

VI. — The Practical Evils existing, in defiance or 

THE PeOVISIONS OF THE IMPERIAL ACT : — 

The co-operation of the causes now enumerated, has pro- 
duced the most mischievous and afflictive results; and, in 
the language of Sir L. Smith, has, "in many instances, speech, ist. Nov. 
provoked more severity and harshness towards the labourers 
than ever existed in slavery P 

\. It has been decided that defective registration of ap- 
prentices is no bar to the masters'' claim. 

The 3d and 4th William IV. cap. 73, manumits at once, 
and unconditionally, persons not duly registered, in con- 
formity with the laws of the several Colonies. The Chief 



14 

Bayiey v. Ewait. Justice ill Jamaica has adjudged that the omission of the 
triennial register, required under the Island Act, 57 Geo. III. 
cap. 15, is not a fatal defect ; and pronounced the negro, 
whose registration was thus omitted in the registry of 1832, 
still in " a servile condition^'' 

stuige's Journal: " Should the attempt become general, to carry out this decision, 
App. xxxvii. ^^^ j^ re-enslave the few non- registered negroes who have re- 
covered their liberty, the worst consequences may be expected to 
ensue ; and, meanwhile, the precarious freedom which they enjoy, 
is nothing better than an unprivileged outlawry." 

A question was proposed to A. H. Beaumont, Esq., on 
this subject : — 

iteport Commons " Dq you mean to Say, that there are a great many negroes un- 
Page 397— No. ' registered, or a great many negro apprentices unregistered ?" To 
^^"'^" which he replied, " I mean a great many negro apprentices un- 

registered, or else illegally registered : the Registry Act required, 
that they should be registered every three years ; the first register 
commenced in 1817; — many were registered then, and were not 
regularly registered afterwards." 

In a despatch, bearing date 5th of August, 1835, Lord 
Glenelg writes to Sir William Nicolay, Governor of the 
Mauritius, — 

Parliamentary " I feel it my duty, with reference to this subject, to call your 

Papers, part^2^^ particular attention to the 1st and 12th clauses of the Act for the 
Page 214. aboHtion of slavery ; by which it is provided, that the apprentice- 

ship shall be imposed only on those slaves who, on or before the 
time specified in the Act, are duly registered as slaves, according 
to the laws then in force in Mauritius. And that all slaves not 
duly registered as before-mentioned, shall be entitled to the un- 
qualified enjoyment of their personal freedom on the 1st of Feb- 
ruary, 1835. It appears, moreover, that a claim has been made 
from Mauritius, and has been rejected by the Commissioners of 
Compensation, for including in the return of slaves, in respect of 
whom compensation was to be awarded, two thousand, or there- 
abouts, admitted not to have been returned or registered. As 
these slaves come clearly within those clauses of the Act to which 
I have referred, and, consequently, could not be lawfully employed 
as apprenticed labourers from the 1st of February, 1835, — the day 
on which the Act came into operation in Mauritius, — I presume 
that you have already taken the necessary steps for declaring them 
absolutely free. You will, I trust, also have taken the same steps, 
with reference to any others who may not have been duly regis- 



15 

tered, as required by the Act. Should you have omitted this 
course, I have to convey to you the desire of His Majesty's Go- 
vernment, that you take immediate measures for carrying the pro- 
visions of the Act of Parliament, in the cases I have mentioned, 
into full eflfect." 

Notwithstanding this mandate was issued in 1835, the 
country has yet to be informed whether or not it has been 
obeyed, in the exercise of justice to the neg^roes, in the 
lirst instance unlawfully imported, and, in this case, un- 
lawfully retained in thraldom. 

2. The Classification of the Apprentices has been open to 
much abuse. 

The distinction between the classes of the predials and 
non-predials was supposed to be clearly and fully made : — 
" That no person of the age of twelve years and upwards, imperial Act, 
shall by, or by virtue of, any act of Assembly, ordinance, 
or order in Council, be included in either of the two classes 
of predial apprenticed labourers, unless such person shall, 
for twelve calendar months, at least, next before the passing 
of the Act, have been habitually employed in agriculture, 
or in the manufacture of Colonial produce." The House of 
Assembly in Jamaica neglected to pass any measure for 
carrying this provision into effect till very recently. Lord 
Glenelg, in his despatch of September 2, 1837, adverts to^o. 134. 
the "defectiveness of the original law of Jamaica in o^nitting 
to provide for any classification of apprentices." The delay 
was evidently calculated to admit of much intermediate 
oppression. In the same document he enters his objections 
to the " Act for the classification of Apprenticed Labourers," 
and says, — 

" The criterion by which Parliament has thus determined who 
shall be predials, is essentially different from that which is given 
in the Act under consideration. The two are incompatible, and, 
in this respect, repugnant to each other. The consequence appears 
inevitable, that the Act of Assembly must be disallowed." 

Tn commenting on an amendment of the Barbadoes Act, 
his Lordship observes, in his despatch dated iOth of June, 
1835,— 

" On the subject of the conversion of the non-predial into parliamentary 
predial Apprentices, a considerable advance has been made, to ots'.'^l' ^issi-h 
obviate the objections raised by Mr. Spring Rice to the original Page s^. 
Act. I fear, however, that the insuperable difficulty yet remains. 



16 

that any conversion of this nature, from one class to another, is 
inconsistent with the Act of Parliament." 

^^7.7ndfi*''^^'^' It is enacted, that the term of predial apprenticeship shall 
expire on the 1st of August, 1840; but "that no person, 
who by virtue of this act, or of any such act of Assembly, 
ordinance, or order iii Council, as aforesaid, shall become 
a non-predial apprenticed labourer, shall continue in such 
apprenticeship beyond the 1st of August, 1838." 

Frequent attempts have been made to bring- the non- 
predials into the class of predials, that the term of bonded 

preiTmrt7[2] labour might be extended to 1840, In Demerara and Ber- 

Pages ioo, 105. bice, all domestics on estates are classed as predials. 

Journal, page 87. " As wc had rcason to believe," says Mr. Sturge, "that, in 
many of the Colonies, the Apprentices bad been fraudulently 
classified, we inquired of various persons, and find that all 
the plantation Negroes were returned by the valuers as per- 

journai, page dial affached labourers." He also records, that " Two of the 

^'^'^- Missionaries of the London Society informed him, that a local 

Magistrate, of Vere, observed, in their presence, that in that 

parish, they had abolished the distinction between predial and 

non-predial, by making all the Apprentices predials." 

3. The manumission price now demanded is often exor- 
bitant. 
Imperial Act, sec. jj- jg " lawful for any apprenticed labourer to purchase 
his or her discharge from such apprenticeship, even without 
the consent, or in opposition, if necessary, to the will of 
the person or persons entitled to his or her services, upon 
payment, to such person or persons, of the appraised value 
of such services." 

The provisions in the Colonies appear to fall very far 
short of the requirements made, in consequence of this 
part of the British Act. The House of Commons Committee 
report — 
Keport Commons "The defective constitution of the tribunal for the valuation 
Page^v. ^' of apprentices applying to purchase their freedom. — With refer- 

ence to this objection, your Committee feel themselves bound to 
state, that a serious obstacle appears to have arisen to the fair and 
equitable operation of the process of compulsory manumission. 
It was clearly the intention of the British Parliament, that the 
apprentice should, by law, enjoy the right of having his services 
appraised at a fair value, at which he should be enabled to pur- 
chase his own freedom ; nor can your Committee suppose that 
the intention of the Jamaica Legislature diflTered, in this respect, 



17 

from that of the British Parliament. They find, however, that 
undue and excessive valuations are alleged, on official authority, 
in many instances, to have occurred : and they cannot but attri- 
bute this evil, in a great measure, to the constitution of the tribu- 
nal to which the valuation is by law confided, and which appears 
to them to give an undue preponderance to colonial magistrates. 
Although no valuation can take place in which the special magis- 
trate does not concur, it is equally true that both, or either, of the 
colonial magistrates may, by adhering to a higher appraisement 
than that which the special magistrate thinks just, render the pro- 
ceeding migato7-y," 

The question proposed to Sir George Grey, — 

"Do YOU know, practically, whether the court always consists Report Commons 

c -1 1 X 1 1 • i. i 1 i-u iT, i- Committee, 1830: 

or one special and two local magistrates, or whether the practice page 472— No. 
has not, in some cases, been inverted ?" ^^®''- 

obtained this reply : — 

" I think it consisted of one special magistrate, and one local 
magistrate, where they could agree without calling in a third ; but 
that where there are three, tivo are always local magistrates." 

In the same examination he further said — 

" There is, most probably, a bias on the minds of colonial idem. No. 5538. 
magistrates, which would not exist in the minds of disinterested 
persons. I have no doubt that the law is objectionable in theory, 
and this has been admitted in the correspondence that has taken 
place. There might be a less partial tribunal." 

Lord Glenelg admits, in a despatch, 11th of July, 1836, 

" The prevalence amonsfst some of the ordinary magistrates, of Parliamentary 

11 PaT)ers Dart 3 * 

opinions and feelings on this subject, of which," he remarks, "I lee. i.' i836.' 
will only say, that they are incompatible with the proper and ^^se 395. 
impartial discharge of the duty confided to them." 

The most extravagant prices have been put on appren- 
ticed labour, by these " fair and impartial tribunals." Sir 
George Grey says, these 

1 1.7 ,i ^ ei r lit Eeport Commons 

" kia,\eoQexi unreasonable, and "frequent. committee, i836: 

-r 1 i-i 1 1 • Pa^e 471 — No. 

Ijord Glenelg writes, — 5564. 

" It is impossible to advert to some of the more recent valua- p^^e^s^^^rj- 
tions, without admitting the conviction, that they have been greatly lee. i.' i836.' 
exaggerated beyond the real value of the services rendered." Page 395. 

This has continued, notwithstanding Lord Sligo's repre- Parliamentary 
sentation had called for the condemnation of "the habitual ur'i!^is36.' 
injustice with which appraisements were made," on the ^*se 29. 
part of the Earl of Aberdeen, in 1834. 

B 



18 



Parliarnentaiy 
Papers, part 3 ; 
180. 1. 1830. 
Pages 282 and 
387. 



Sturge's Journal, 
page 270. 



Lord Sligo, in his despatches of March 18th, and June 
23d, 1836, furnishes reports of several cases of excessive 
valuations, from which the following three are selected: — 

Annotta Bay Court, 14th March, 1836. — Mary Allen, about 
40, non-predial, valued for two years and five months, at the net 
sum of £48 6s. 8d. ; the sum not paid ; Apprentice said it was 
too much. 

iN'ote by the Marquis of Sligo. — 1 cannot but think this another 
instance of most extravagant valuation. 

Buff Bay Court, 8th March, 1836.— Eleanor Williams, alias 
Eleanor Martin, aged 40, predial unattached, valued for four 
years and five months, £92 15s., deducting for contingencies, 
left the net sum awarded £61 16s. 8d. ; the sum not paid; 
Apprentice said it was too much. 

J^ote by the Marquis of Sligo, — I cannot think that a woman 
of 40 years of age, in this climate, having had six children, 
one of whom is only five months old, one who was entitled to sit 
down under the custom in the old slave time, if all of them were 
alive, can be worth £21 a year. I do not think that an able male 
negro, in general, is valued much higher. These high valuations, 
I think, are very unfair towards the apprentices. 

Protest of Mr. Special Justice Gurley against the valuation of 
Sally Carty, a predial attached. Value, £77 5s. ; deducting for 
contingencies, the nett award was £41 10s. 

" I protest against this valuation in the first place, my Lord, as 
it has appeared, in evidence, that the woman is working in the 
second gang, that she has five children, and is now pregnant with 
the sixth. I protest against it, in the second place, because I am 
myself hiring a stout, able woman, without any incumbrance, for 
£16 per annum, without being liable for contingencies, such as 
clothing, medical attendance, &c. I protest against it, in the 
third place, because the remainder of the apprenticeship of 60 
able hands, was purchased in this district, not long since, for £700. 
And, lastly, I protest against it, because the apprenticeship of 
Edward Mason was not valued at £10; although he is a far more 
able servant, according to the evidence, than Sally Carty." 

Mr. E. B. Lyon, a magistrate in Jamaica, informed 
Joseph Sturge, Esq., — 

" That he had valued 160 apprentices since the commencement 
of the present system. He remarked, that in the early part of the 
apprenticeship, the valuation of predials by himself and the asso- 
ciated local magistrates, averaged^<;<? and six doubloons; now, for 
a fraction of the term, they are appraised at nine and ten. Do- 



19 

mestics were then valued at from four to Jioe doubloons, who are 
now, for Ihe short remaining 'period of their service, estimated at 
the same rate." 

Sir Lionel Smith, so recently as the 3 1st of October, Ninth Message. 
1837, says, that, "as the term of apprenticeship draws to 
a close, the demands for the sale of services have greatly 
increased." 

4. Vei'y inadequate provision is made for the comfortable 
tnaintenance of apprentices. 

The British act enforces the provision of sustenance as imperial Act, 
amply under the present system as during- slavery. It '^''■^'^■ 
requires "a supply of food, clothing-, lodging, medical attend- 
ance, medicine, and such other maintenance and allowances, 
as by any laio in force in the Colony (at the time of the 
passing of the act) to which such apprenticed labourer may 
belong, an owner is required to supply to and for any 
slave, being of the same age and sex as such apprenticed 
labourer shall be." And, if no such provision were made, 
or not adequately made, then such should be enacted by 
the Local Legislature, as might be necessary. This, in the 
case of Jamaica, is professedly recognized ; but the im- 
portant distinction is made between " any law in force in 
the Colony," and one parti cidar statute, intituled, "An Act Jamaica Act, 
for the Government of Slaves now in this Island;" thus ^'^"•-• 
contracting the privileges of the apprentices. 

On this a quibble has been raised, with respect to the Eepoit commons 
significance of the terms "allowance" and " indulgence ;" Pa^ 25 ef'seq. 
by virtue of which many of the necessary auxiliaries to the ^"°-23o— 216. 
negro's comfort have been taken away ; since they have not 
been by that law allowed, however much general and long 
established custom has regulated their supply. 

" They were thus enumerated some time since, by the planters Eepoit Commons 
of the parish of Trelawney. 'A weekly allowance of herrings and AppencUx^'pAs!" 
salt cod-fish ; also oatmeal, flour, sugar, rum, &c., and sundry 
articles of clothing, at crop over and Christmas, as rewards for 
good conduct; and to women, wilh six children, a weekly or daily 
allowance, according to their respective cases, of rice, sugar, &c. ;' 
and this ' &c,' has been practically understood to comprise the 
time allowed to mothers nursing, and the employment of a certain 
number of negroes, in cooking and preparing the labourers' 
meals ; and, in short, most of those other conveniences which 
experience had proved to be indispensable." 



2X) 

stuipe'9 Journal, Now, however, the supply of clothing is often lament- 
xSdii. (ivia^i-' ably and indecently deficient on many estates. Medical 
tenai Report.) reffulations are oppressive, — on some no medical attendance 

Stui-ge s Journal, ii'/y-tii i i ni 

pages 137, 361. at all IS anordecl, and on others the negroes are called upon 
sh-'i^miui'^ ^^ P^y ^^^' ^^' ^^^ allowances of field cooks, water carriers, 
Message, Oct. 31, and nurscs have been discontinued, to the especial injury 
stmges Journal, ^^ mothcrs and children ; and the salt and salt fish allow- 
page 175. ' auccs havo been withheld, and are purchased, at an exorbi- 
tant price, by the negroes. Of this Sir George Grey says, 
" I think it very injudicious." Accordant with which is the 
testimony of the Committee of the House of Commons : — 
Report Commons " In Connexion with this subject, your Committee would ob- 
Page^i!***'" serve, that they have examined into the continuance of certain 
indulgences which were usually granted to the negro, when in a 
state of slavery, and which, it has been urged, are secured to him 
in the same manner as the other allowances, by the Imperial Act, 
during the period of apprenticeship. Although your Committee 
do not feel warranted in putting this construction upon the Act, 
yet they conceive, that it is to be regretted that these indulgences 
should in any case be withheld, as long as the apprentice works 
in a proper manner for his employer, during the time which he is 
bound to give him." 

Without entering into the logomachy alluded to, no im- 
partial man can suppose that it accords with the spirit of a 
measure remedially intended, — to deprive the negro, by any 
ambiguity of expression, of such provision, called either 
allowance or indulgence, as was held necessary or expedient 
for him in his former state. The vagueness of the letter 
may be adhered to, though the spirit of the Act, and the 
intention of its framers, is evaded. 

In manifest violation of the law, an inadequate quan- 
tity of food is given. In proof of this, it is only ne- 
cessary to cite the sections of divers Colonial Acts, as 
compared with the scale of allowances under the former 
system. In Demerara, Berbice, Tobago, Trinidad, Tortola, 
St. Vincents, St. Kitts, and other Colonies, they are less 
than half of what was enjoined by Slave Acts, in opposition 
to the Imperial Law, that they should continue the same, 
if adequate, and, if inadequate, should be amended. 

In an order in Council, under Slavery, it was enacted, 
that — 

Order in Council " Evcry owner or manager who shall propose to maintain his 
ofNov. 2,ia3i. slaves by an allowance of provisions, shall be bound to supply of 



21 

o'ood, average, merchantable quality, sound, and fit for consump- 
tion, provisions to the amount, and of the kinds following, viz. : — 
Each and every slave above the age of ten years, shall receive, in 
each week, not less than 21 pints of the flour or meal of Guinea, or 
Indian corn — or 21 pints of wheat flour — or 6^ full-grown plan- 
tains — or 56 pounds of cocoas or yams, — and also 7 herrings, or 
shads, or other salted provisions equal thereto." 

Subjoined is a Schedule, appended to an order in Council, 
transmitted to Demerara and ]3erbice, for the regulation of 
allowances of food under the Abolition Law : — 



Description of 
Persons. 



Class 1. 
Males or Fe- 
males above 
the age of 12 
years, — 



Class 2. 

Boys and 

Girls mider 

the age of 12 

years, — 



Salt 
Provisions. 



Three pounds of 
salt fish (cod,) or 
4 pounds of her- 
rings, mackerel, 
or shads, or 2 
pounds of salt 
beef, or pork, or 
4 pounds of fresh 
beef or pork, with 
halfa pint of salt. 



One-half of the 
above. 



Plantains. 



Two bunches of 
full-grown plan- 
tains, weighing at 
least 35 pounds 
each ; if less, the 
deficiency to be 
made up, that is 
to say, the al- 
lowance not to 
be less than 70 
pounds weight, 
without reference 
to bunches. 



One-half of the 
above. 



Or other Farinaceous 
Food in lieu of Plantains, 



Twenty-fivelbs.of 
yams or potatoes, 
or 20 pounds of 
eddoes or tan- 
yahs, or 10 pints 
of wheat flour, or 
1 pints of Indian 
corn, meal, or 10 
pints of rice. 



One-half of the 
above. 



Order in Council, 
5tli June, 1834. 
Parliamentary 
Papers, part i, 
1833-5. 278. 1. 
Page 142. 



In the Barbadoes Law it is enacted, that — 

"Each and every apprenticed labourer, above the age of 1 6 Barbadoes Act, 
years, shall receive, in each week, not less than 30 pounds of plan- ^^^•^''• 
tains, potatoes, yams, or eddoes, or 10 pints of Guinea or Indian papers, pai-t 2. 
corn, and 1 pound of cod-fish or herrings, shads, or other pickled pa^^loi^^^' ^' 
fish, or salted provisions, equal thereto ; and every apprenticed 
labourer, from the age of 12 years to the age of 16 years, shall 
receive two-thirds of the above allowances of food ; and every 
apprenticed labourer, from the age of 6 to the age of 12, shall 
receive the one-half of the first-mentioned allowances of food j and 



22 



Oi-der in Council. 
17th Sept., 1834! 
cap. iv. sec. 3. 
Parliamentary 
Papers, part 2, 
1833-5. 278. 1. 
Page 372. 



Tobago Act, 

sec. 12. 
Parliamentary- 
Papers, part 2, 
1833-5. 278. 2. 
Page 417. 



Tortola Act, 

sec. 32. 
Parliamentaiy 
Papei-s, part 2, 
1833-5. 278. 2. 
Page 349. 



Imperial Act, 
sec. xvi. 



children under 6 years of age, being apprenticed labourers, shall 
be provided with proper and sufficient food for their support." 

In an order in Council, approving of the measures 
adopted for carrying into effect the Abolition Act, in the 
Mauritius, it is declared : — 

" Each and every apprenticed labourer, above the age of 10 years, 
shall receive, in each week, not less than 6 pints of wheaten or 
rye flour or rice, and 9 pints of corn meal or farine of manioc, 
or 7 pounds of biscuit, or 50 full-grown plantains, or 21 jDounds 
of yams, or sweet cassada, or sweet potatoes, or eddoes, or tan- 
yahs, and 3| pounds of good salted cod-fish, commonly called 
salt fish; and to all apprenticed labourers under the age of 10 
years, one-half of the above allowance." 

The Tobago Act provides, that — 

" Each apprenticed labourer, above the age of 10 years, shall 
have a weekly allowance of 7 quarts of corn-meal, or five quarts 
of rice or flour, or 20 pounds of yams, or 25 pounds of sweet 
potatoes, or 30 pounds of full-grown plantains ; and every ap- 
prenticed labourer below the age of 10 years, one-half, of the 
above." 

The Tortola Law enacts, that — 

" Every employer shall give to each of the predial apprenticed 
labourers, above the age of 12 years, 2 pounds of saUed pro- 
visions, or 4 pounds of fresh fish, and 6 pints of corn, or beans 
or peas, or 4 pints of wheat or rye flour, or 6 pints of Indian 
corn meal, or 4 pounds of biscuit, or 20 pounds of yams, potatoes, 
or other esculent roots, or 15 pounds of plantains or bananas; 
and to each of the other predial apprentices such sufficient 
quantity, in the same proportion as the emploi/er shall think proper, 
according to the different labour, size, strength, age, or otherwise, 
of such apprenticed labourers." 

With such Laws in the hands of the Colonists, the case 
of the Apprentices, in many of the Islands, is truly de- 
plorable; lor instead of 21 pints of flour or rice, &c., there 
are only allowed at present, in some cases 10, in others 6, 
and in one only 4. 

In the Colonies where provision grounds are allotted to 
the Apprentices, it was required, that — 

Grounds adequate in quantity and quality should be given; 
that due and sufficient time should be afforded for the cultivation, 
according to " the extent of such grounds," and " the distance at 
which they shall be from the ordinary place of the apprentices' 



23 

abode ;" that " proper rules should be established for the prevention 
and punishment of any frauds that may be practised, or omissions 
which may occur;" — securing to the labourers the full benefit of 
the time for this purpose, in which their service is not, by law, 
due to their employers, and enjoining " exactness" in the com- 
putation of that time. 

The provision grounds and markets lie, frequently, from Lord siigos nes- 
one mile to three miles from the Apprentices' home, some ten, i's'jf.'' pariia-"^'' 
twelve, and even fifteen miles. The plan of working nine p^l'er^pait 3, 
hours on the first four days of the week, and half that time isjo.iog. i.Page 
on the Friday, has been recommended as best calculated to sturges joumai, 
afi'ord the Negro a fair opportunity of cultivating his grounds ^pi'- ^^ee 1. 
to advantage; but, by the introduction of another system 
of working eight hours on the first four days, and eight hour 
and a half on the fifth, this opportunity has not been 
afforded, as it divides his time into small portions, to his 
prejudice. In some cases, where the grounds lie at a dis- 
tance from his dwelling, the time left is not sufficient for 
him even to go and return, and no allowance is made on 
this account. By this arrangement, he is in effect despoiled 
and cheated of this weekly period, and the " fraud," pro- 
hibited by the Imperial Act, is virtually committed upon 
him. 

Lord Sligo, having found that the eight hours' system, 
which he at first recommended, was in this way injurious, 
endeavoured to obtain the universal adoption of the nine 
hours, by which the half Friday would be secured to the 
Apprentice ; but Lord Glenelg " silently acquiesced in the 
inconvenience" occasioned by the former. 

In his examination. Sir George Grey being asked re- 
specting this matter, said, — - 

" A great many communications upon the subject have been Report Commons 
received from Lord Sligo. It has been stated, that Lord Sligo con^ittee,i836, 
himself was an advocate for the eight-hour system, and that he 5530. 
recommended that, in preference to the nine-hour system. To a 
certain extent this is true ; but, in justice to Lord Sligo, I am 
bound to state, that he has exerted himself recently, within all 
the limits of his lawful authority, to establish the nine-hour system, 
in preference to the eight hours, contrary to the opinion he had 
himself originally entertained, of the latter being the most bene- 
ficial to all parties. He subsequently ascertained, that the negroes 
preferred the nine-hour system, and that very general complaints 
had arisen of the eight-hour system being adopted." 



24 

Lord Glenelg, in his despatch, 5th October, 1835, 
expresses his opinion, that — 

Pape^p^^ " ^^ appears to be universally admitted, that the construction 

1836. 'i66. 1. ' which would be most beneficial to the labourers themselves, is 
^'^ ^^' that which would exempt them from work, in their employers' 

service, on Friday afternoons." 

In reply to this question, — 

" Does Lord Sligo state, that if the employer wanted to get 
work done, the nine-hour system would be adopted ; if he wanted 
to annoy the Negro, the eight-hour system ? " 

Sir George Grey said, — 

" Yes, certainly; I do not mean to say, that Lord Sligo implies, 
in all cases, that it was done for that object, but he thought it 
was so in some cases, as he could discern no other reason." 

His Lordship himself declares — 

"The policy of the eight-hour system, I consider to be bad, 
and I do so after a year's close tvatching of the Negro character." 

The Committee of the Commons House of Parliament 
report, that — 
Eeport Commons " jj j^^s been urged as an objection against the Jamaica law. 

Committee, 1836, ,, . , . ° •' i * i i. .1 . r ^ 

page vi. that it contains no enactment to regulate the distribution of the 

time which the Apprentice is bound weekly to give to his em- 
ployer. The result has been, the want of uniformity in the dis- 
tribution of the legal time. Two systems are prevalent in Jamaica; 
the one termed the nine-hour system — the other is termed the 
eight-hour system. From the evidence which your Committee 
have received on this subject, there appears to be no doubt that 
the former system is very generally and decidedly preferred by 
the Apprentices, as it leaves them a larger portion of time, free 
from interruption, at their own disposal, for the cultivation of their 
grounds, or for any other purpose. Your Committee are con- 
vinced, that that system must prove most conducive to the interests 
of the employers, which will secure the most cheerful acquiescence 
on the part of the Apprentices." 

This neglect is still continued, in utter disregard of the 
Imperial Act, which calls for the establishment of rules 
and regulations, to carry into effect the provisions of the 
16th clause. 

It must never be forgotten, in the case of all the Colonies, 
that, though their enactments are sanctioned by Colonial 
authority, or even by the Home Government, it is expressly 
provided, — 



25 

"That it shall not be lawful for any Governor, Council, or impmaiAct, 
Assembly, or for any Local Legislatures, ov for His Majesty in ''^'^•''"• 
Council, by any Acts of Assembly, Ordinances, or Orders in 
Council, to make or establish any enactment, regulation, pro- 
vision, rule, or order, which shall be, in any wise, repugnant or 
contradictory to this present Act, or any part thereof; but that 
every such enactment, regulation, rule, or order, shall be, and 
is, hereby declared to be absolutely null, void, and of no effect." 

In the important article of the provision of maintenance, 
the letter of the Imperial Act is violated, and the promises of 
concurrence, by which the payment of the Twenty Millions 
was obtained, are broken ; — since Laws are actually enforced 
in the British Colonies, which the Statute ordained for their 
regulation, absolutely declares to be " null and void." 

5. The recognised rights of the Apprentices are infringed. 

The Apprentices are not only hindered from an advan- 
tageous aj^propriation of their time, for cultivating their 
provision grounds ; but " the paths leading from the huts, Lord ssugo, isth 
to the provision grounds, have been stopped." ^"^'' ^^'^' 

The labourer is not allowed to go beyond a certain Jamaica Act, 
boundary, except in some few special cases, Avithout a PariLnentai? 
pass, — but under fear of apprehension and punishment as a fgTs-s'^^TsS 
" vagabond^ Now, the draft order in Council, transmitted Pagea'ys." 
to Jamaica, provided, that the employer or special justice 
might grant the pass ; in the local statute, this is limited 
to the employer. The former prescribes his boundary as that 
of the " district s^"* the latter substitutes for this the more 
contracted limit of the " plantation.'''' . 

By means of the Vagrancy Law, attempts have been ssd Geo. iii. 
made on their liberty. The Attorney General holds, that ''^'^' ^' 
this is inapplicable to the Apprentices ; whereas, the Chief 
Justice has promulgated a different opinion from the bench 
on several occasions. Lord Glenelg, in reference to this 
question, writes to Sir Lionel Smith : — 

" I am not competent to weigh the conflicting opinions which Despatch, 25th 
may be offered as to the construction of the law ; neither do I ^^^' ^*^'^- '^°- 
consider that it is material that such a point should be further 
discussed. It is sufficient for me to know, that the practical effect 
of the opinion entertained by the Chief Justice, is to ensure such 
an administration of the vagrancy law as it would be the object 
of His Majesty's Government to avoid." 



26 

Mothers of six children, and aged persons, who were 
never required to work, previous to the present system, are 
called out to labour. Lord Sligo, in his despatch, bearing 
date 7th September, 1835, says, — 

Parliamentary^ " "Yhe proprietors have, in many instances, in the harshest man- 
No. lee. 1. 1836. ner, compelled poor and helpless males and females, sometimes 
Page 87. with Only one leg, and at others with only one arm, and all most 

Eeport Commons feeble, to vvork in the field." 

Committee, 1836. 

Sir G. Grey, page c i • • i • 

473.— No. 5572. Thc State of the law respecting marriages, as bearing on 
thews,Es^,%p. prior usage, was such as to jeopardize the conjugal interests 
page 241. pf many, the legality of whose marriage was not formerly 

Sg^gjf disputed. 

Pariiament^ lu refcreiice to this evil, the House of Commons Com- 
fUS'^'ieri?' mittee report : — 

Page 12. 

co^it^ee^TssT " Strong objections have been urged against the present state of 
Pagevii. ' ' the law with regard to marriages, which confines to clergymen of 
the Church of England the power of solemnising the marriage 
ceremony. It appears to j'our Committee to be of the utmost 
consequence, in such a state of society as now exists in Jamaica, 
that all ground for these complaints should be speedily and com- 
pletely removed." 

Husbands and wives have not, in all cases, been allowed 

to enjoy a proper interchange of matrimonial rites, being 

Jamaica Law, uuable, if resident on different plantations (in consequence 

^^"^ ■ of the law above cited), to visit each other. Joseph Sturge, 

Esq., says, — 

sturge' s Journal, « During our stay in Antigua, we met a gentleman from Bar- 
badoes, who informed us that he had thus punished [^. e. with the 
tread-mill, on charge of trespass] husbands and wives residing 
on different estates, for visiting each other ; observing, that the 
law allowed the magistrate no discretion. — Another, on being 
asked why he inflicted such a penalty ? said, the laiv was impe- 
rative." 

sturge's Journal, Ml*. E. B. LyoH, iu onc of his magisterial reports, cites 
pp. age xxvii. ^^^ cases, iu which female apprentices, who had purchased 
their freedom, were forbidden to enter the houses of their 
husbands, unless they paid a weekly sum for their privilege. 
This peremptory command was given " the tnoment their 
certificate of freedom was granted.''^ The same Magistrate 
says, that " at Island Head Plantation, Robert Graham 



27 

purchased the remainder of his term, and was immediately 
ordered off the estate, and forbidden to enter the house of his 
wife.'''' This is the portion allotted to a free man ; and this 
the condition of his wife, still an apprentice, concerning 
whom it is declared, hy Mr. Stanley, that she " should have 
the power of claiming to he put in a situation, in which (inter 
alia) she should have the fidl enjoyment of domestic ties.'''' 
" A few weeks ago," continues Mr. Lyon, " he crept into 
the house of his wife. He is a Baptist, and they joined in 
prayer, and sung a hymn. His arrival was reported to the 
overseer, who instantly ordered the constables to watch the 
door, and apprehend him, which was done ; but, by some 
means, he escaped and came to me. I trust, I have for a 
time, secured to him his domestic rights." — " My endeavour 
to protect the Apprentices in their civil rights, has created 
a considerable degree of irritation against me, among the 
Magistrates and Attorneys of the district generally." 

In the case of pregnant women, and mothers suckling 
infants, the full amount of labour may be required, as no 
exception is, by law, made in any one respect on their 
behalf. And although Lord Sligo recommended, that mothers 
attending on their sick children, should not be compelled to 
pay back the time so occupied, yet this may be still demanded. 
Subjoined are the remarks of Mr. Jeremie, on the operation 
of the Act, in which the Apprentice may be compelled to ^'^^^%^''*' 
work penally for the henejit of the employer., for a longer 
period than is necessary to indemnify him for the loss of 
time incurred by his absence. 

"These clauses maybe also made to apply most harshly in Eepoit Commons 
practice. A mother claiming the usujil indulg-ence of half-an- Ap^^ge^ ^' 
hour, or even five minutes, to nurse her child, may be deprived 
of a whole day's labour ; or, in other words, of nearly the whole 
time allowed her by law, for her own benefit during the week." 

One female has given birth to a child in going out to her 
work ; and another has been labouring on the tread-mill 
nnder the lash till within a few weeks of parturition. In 
one recent instance in the parish of St. Ann's, it is reported, 
that a female, for breaking a dozen plates, who " had been 
not long since confined with twins, was ordered to be kept 
in the workhouse, with her two infants, on short allowance. 
The latter part of the sentence was changed, however, at 
the intercession of a humane person." 



28 



Sligo's Despatch 
IHth June, 1836. 
Parliameutajy 
Papers, part 3, 
1836. 166.1. 
Page 380. 

Jamaica Act, 

sec. 13. 
Parliamentaiy 
Papers, part 2, 
1833-^. 278. 1. 
Page 151. 



Parliamentaiy 
Papers, part 2, 
1833-.5 278. 1. 
I'age 172. 



Among the cases of flogging sent down to the Assembly, 
by Lord Sligo, which he forwarded also to the Colonial 
Office, is the following: — 

"Falmouth, 20lh June, 1835. — Sarah Jarrett, and three other 
women, the same day. — Sarah Jarrett was brought to bed of a 
child, within a month after the punishment was inflicted." 

The treatment of free-born children is also matter of 
complaint. The law provides, that if it be made to appear 
before any special Justice, that inadequate pi'ovision is made 
for a child, not being six years old, he shall be empowered 
to apprentice such child, to the master entitled to the 
services of its mother, till the age of 21 ; by which means, 
on increasing the destitution of the infant, by depriving 
the mother of opportunities of affording sufficient suste- 
nance, the employer may obtain a long vested right in 
bonded service. This power is vested in the hands of one 
Special Magistrate. 

By the most exemplary maternal solicitude and fidelity, 
the attempt has often been defeated ; but where this solici- 
tude has failed, and the failure has been concealed from the 
view of the estate officers, the sacrifice of life is unknown. 

At one period, in Berbice, Demerara, &c.. Sir J. Car- 
michael Smyth said. — 

" It has been represented to me, that several Special Justices 
conceive that it will be their duty to cause all the free children of 
the apprenticed labourers to be bound Apprentices. I do hereby 
declare and make known, that all and every such compulsory 
proceedings, were they even legal, would be highly irritating and 
impolitic" — 

Though this proclamation was made on the 16th August, 
1834, he again says, in a government notice, 22nd January, 
1835,— 

" The Lieut. -Governor has learned, with very considerable 
regret, that on three estates in district C, on five in district E., 
on four in district F., and on one in district B., the children under 
six years of age, are allowed neither the food, the clothing, nor 
the medical assistance to which they are entitled bylaw, previously 
to the 1st of August. The attorneys in charge of the estates, have 
taken a most erroneous view of what they have doubtless conceived 
to be, the interest of their employers. The miserable saving of the 
small quantity of plantains and salt fish which can be consumed 
by children of such tender years, ought never to have been put in 



29 

competition with tbe anger and discontent, which cannot but be 
generated in the minds of the parents of the infants alluded to. 
The labourers would rather see their children perish, than take 
any step which would throw them back again towards a state 
which (in their opinion) approximates to slavery. 

" A great deal has been said, and a great deal has been written, 
relative to the propriety of importing free labourers. These young 
children on the estates, are free labourers, than whom no better 
can be procured. If treated with kindness, and trained with care, 
they will grow up an attached and a useful body of free labourers, 
to the great benefit of the estate on which they may have been 
brought up, as well as to the Colony in general." 

The preamble of this part of the Imperial Act supposes 
absolute destitution on the part of the children, which is 
the only case that could justify a provision of this kind ; 
whereas the Jamaica Act, though according with its letter, 
is at variance with its spirit, by the power it gives, in enact- 
ing such a provision where inadequate maintenance is made 
to appear to the view of the Special Justice. 

In the apportioning of the Apprentices' time of labour 
during forty-five hours in the week, or forty-and-a-half in 
the home-fed estates, the discretion of the Master is the only 
guide. The Imperial Act requires, that " Exactness in the ^toctionfto s'^e- 
computation" of such time shall be secured. But this is ciai Magistrates. 
defectively performed, and, by consequence, the labourer's coS^itte^e^Tsso! 
hours of service are capi'iciously extended. The infraction '^pp- p^^s^ 232. 
of the Apprentice's time by mulcts, has been extensively „ 

,*V ,.,. •'. ' ,. ni Report Commons 

practised, by which, in some instances, he is compelled to coimnittee, isstj. 
labour for fifty-one hours without ceasing. In crop time, Isfl. 
this temptation is sometimes too great to be withstood. sirj.c. smith. 

On these points the testimony of many eye-witnesses is lapl^^p^'J 
concurrent. 1833-5! 278.1. 

Page 172. 

It has been, and still is, a cause of sincere regret to the sturges joumai. 
friends both of the Employers and Apprentices, that such jj^^^I^^j ■^j^^j.j.g.^ 
annoying and irritatino: practices should be permitted to exist, i-etter to the go- 

'i ^ ox 1 vernment Secre- 

In some cases, the first Colonial Statutes gave the Master stogeT joumai 
the power of compelling " the immediate and continued ser- App. xi. 
vice" of the Apprentices, during any " emergency." The 
terms of this enactment were so vague, as to call for an "'^^^'eo.^"'^' ''' 
amendment by the order of the Home Government. Accord- 
ingly there occurs, in the second Act, this explanation ; — 

" Whereas doubts have arisen as to the meaning of the words Jamaica Act, 2, 
' urgent necessity,' in the 60th Clause of the said Act, for removal ^^'^- lO- 



30 



Vide Ajipendix. 



Jamaica Assem- 
bly. Debate of 
Nov. 1st, 1837. 



thereof, be it enacted, that such words shall be deemed and taken 
to mean, cases of hurricane, tempest, earthquake, flood, fire, or 
other misfortune, the act of God, and which could not have been 
prevented by previous due caution on the part of the employer." 

Efforts have also been made to extend the term of bonded 
servitude. In the Imperial Act, by the unlimited power 
given to the Magistrates to punish offences by mulcts of 
time, the means is afforded of" prolonging the retention of 
the services of the Apprentice, by the master, to any extent 
not greater than seven years, beyond the expiry of the 
present system in 1840. 

An attempt has been made in the Mauritius, to per- 
petuate slavery by means of a Vagrancy Law. It is, 
however, satisfactory to know, that it has been disallowed. 
In one of its clauses it was to be enacted, — that every 
labourer who, under 6*0 years of age, should be unable to 
procure employment, should be sentenced to three months 
labour on the public works ; — if, at the end of three months, 
he was unable to procure employment, he should be placed 
on some plantation, or in some manufactory, for the space 
of three years; and if, at the end of three years, he was 
still unable to find an employer, he should again be fixed 
in the same way for three years longer, and so on ; — thus 
establishing a most oppressive and cruel system, which the 
masters would not find it difficult to work, when combining 
for the purpose. The act passed the Local Legislature, but, 
by the Home Government, has not been permitted to be 
put in force. Although the scheme was unsuccessful, yet 
its proposition and adoption in the Colony proves the subtle 
inveteracy of the evil which is still in existence, waiting and 
seeking for the opportunity of daring and direful operation. 

An order in Council was issued by Her Majesty in Coun- 
cil, shortly after her accession to the throne, granting to the 
Demerara Planters the right of importing " Hill Coolies" 
from the East Indies — and substituting for the permission 
to bind Apprentices for three years, the term oijive. 

Task -work is prohibited, unless by the full consent of the 
labourer. The scales for its regulation are too high, and 
their enforcement has led to much dispute between the 
Members of the House of Assembly, — the Employers and 
the Magistrates, — and the Officers of estates and Apprentices. 
It appears that they are sometimes compulsorily enforced, 
without the concurrence of the Special Magistrate. 



31 

The payments for extra labour are very disproportionate 
and inadequate. Jobbers receive for eig-bt bours' day-work, 
2s. Cd. ; Apprentices, for eic^bt bours' nigbt-work, some 8d., 
some, Is., tbe big-best. Is. 4d. 

One of tbe Witnesses before tbe Committee, said, — 

"The work of any Negro belonging to a jobbing gang, was, at Eepoi-t Commons 
the very lowest, worth, at eight hours a day, 2s. 6d. ; and if they pa™'^^"!'' No?^' 
were persuaded to give their labour for Id, or l^d. an hour, it was 4oo3. 
a fraud upon the Negro, for it is not half the worth of that portion 
of labour; or it was not more than half of what would be given 
to one of the jobbing gangs." 

This was in many cases done. 

Lord Sligo, in his despatcb of tbe 18tb July, 1835, 
apprizes tbe Colonial Office — • 

" It has reached my ears, that many of the managers have, in Pariiamentaiy 
consequence of the facility with which this crop has been got Jsii-t ^no.~' 
off, and the seeming satisfaction of the Apprentices at the rates 2^^- ^- ^'^se 260. 
of wages hitherto paid them, come to a resolution of refusing the 
terms they have this year given, inthe hopes of getting" them to 
accede to cheaper terms." 

Thus, tbrougb tbe advantages acquired by tbe vagueness 
of permissive enactments, — by evasions of tbe provisions of 
tbe Imperial Act, — by crafty impositions on tbe Apprentices, 
bave endeavours been made to deprive them of tbeir liberties; 
or so to induce tbeir surrender, as to profit tbe Master, to 
tbeir manifest injury. 

6. Unjustijiahle punishments are wjiicted on the Appren- 
tices. 

Tbe Imperial Act declares, that " neither Master nor 
Local Magistrates, but only Special Magistrates, shall inflict 
punisbment." Notwithstanding this, they are, to a certain 
extent, arbitrarily and irresponsibly imposed by tbe Em- 
ployers and tbeir agents. 

The Jamaica Act contains this proviso; — " Provided ■'^^"^^^^*=*' 
always, tbat if tbe attendance of a special Justice cannot 
be procured witbin twenty-four bours, it shall and mmj he 
lawful for tbe Proprietor or Manager aforesaid, to order tbe 
release of such Apprentice as aforesaid, after tbe expiration 
of twenty-four bours." Tbe only provision here contained 
is jyermissive ; and there is nothing to prevent confinement, 
in a dark dungeon, for a longer space of time, in this 



32 



Circular, No. 
1516, Nov. 10, 
1837. 



Jamaica Act, 
sec. 28. 



Jamaica Act, 
sec. 29. 



Barbados* Act, 
sec. 104. 



Barbadoes Act, 
sec. 6H. 



summary manner. That the possession of this power has 
been experimentally proved, it is only necessary to cite 
the Marquis of Sligo's own declaration, that — 

" Frequent instances occur, of owners placing their Apprentices 
in confinement for twenty-four hours, or, indeed, in some cases, 
for a longer period, without any charge being brought against 
them ; and these instances are often only discovered by accident." 

The Local Magistrates claim a jurisdiction in the work- 
houses and gaols, and their power is not uselessly possessed. 
They have also interfered with the peculiar province of the 
Special Justices, so as to excite the attention of Sir L. 
Smith. 

" His Excellency the Governor has observed, by public adver- 
tisements, that Justices who are not of the Special Commission, 
have frequently committed Apprentices to the house correction 
as deserters and vagrants, contrary to the 2\st clause of the Abo- 
lition Act, which assigns exclusive jurisdiction over Apprentices 
to Special Justices of the Peace only." 

As respects the power which is given to Special Magis- 
trates, in their penal judgments, it is to be observed, that 
in several parts of the Local Acts, there is a great want of 
precision in the enumeration and classification of offences, 
and the punishments they involve. To cite one instance in 
Jamaica, — an act of drunkenness, at whatever time com- 
mitted, whether in that claimed by the master or the 
labourer, is classed with a7i act of wilful negligence, wherehy 
jyroperty is damaged, and the same penalty is attached to 
both. 

Many of the punishments appear excessive. Two weeks' 
hard labour, or 39 stripes, may be awarded on the charge 
of insolence; — while no greater amount of punishment 
awaits an act of daring insubordination. 

In Barbadoes, an Apprentice guilty of uttering any 
slander, may be condemned to hard labour three months, 
or to close confinement one month, and if a male, to 39 
stripes; and no greater punishment attends his conviction of 
an act of trespass. Further, — an Apprentice being absent 
without leave, may be compelled to pay back to the employer 
two extra hours for every hour of absence, or punished with 
confinement and hard labour for three days, or by solitary 
confinement for the same period ; and, on a second offence. 



33 

by a month's hard labour, or solitary confinement for a 
week, or, if a male, by 20 lashes. 

It is also a cause of complaint, that in some of the 
enactments, the extent to which a i)enalty may be exacted, 
is not defined. The Jamaica Law contains a j^roviso, — '^°^f'^^^'^*' 
that, in cases of indolence, or neglect, or improper per- 
formance of work, the Special Justice may sentence the 
offender, either alone, or in addition to flog-ging and hard 
labour, — to extra labour, for the benefit of the employe!', 
for any such number of hours or days, as the justice of the 
case may seem to require, not exceeding fifteen hours in any 
one week. The second Jamaica Act enables any Special ^^'=- ^^• 
Justice to substitute any given number of hours of work on 
the tread-mill, in any House of Correction, or otherwise, 
for ANY of the punishments imposed by any act on Appren- 
tices, as he, in his discretion, shall see fit. 

Punishments of a very severe nature are in the hands of 
one Special Magistrate; as, for example, — that of hard Jamaica Act, 
labour for six months, or 50 lashes, for attempting to quit 
the Island. So is the clause, by which a mulct of fifteen Jamaica Act, 
hours per week may be awarded to the master, to be paid ij^periB^A^t, 
at any time within seven years after the expiration of the sec 20. 
apprenticeship. Whether the penalty be proportionate to 
the degree of guilt or not, it is manifestly too great to lie 
within the power of any single individual. 

Under the Jamaica Act, a gang convicted of the vague Jamaica Act, 
charge of indolence, or neglect, or improper performance ^^'^^'^• 
of work, may, each and all, be sentenced to 50 lashes, if 
males, and if females, to three months' imprisonment and 
hard labour, or twenty days solitary confinement; and then, 
in addition to this, to labour for any number of hours or 
days,^ in their own time, for the benefit of the employer, 
as the Special Justice may think proper, not exceeding 
fifteen hours in any one week. There is no preventive 
against taking from the whole gang, the entire of their tirne, 
up to the end of the apprenticeship. 

In Barbadoes district D, during the month of Decem- sturgesjournai: 
ber, 1836, the magistrate reported having mulcted 22620!^''"^'''^^^^ 
negroes in 2,200 days, as punishments for various offences. 

In the penal aranars, all are worked in chains ; and the ifepoi-t commons 

■, n -^ . , <• 1 rri . , ,1 Committee, 1836 : 

neck coilar IS put on females. Irie women are put to the Page 442— no. 
tread-mill, as well as the men, where the work is severe, ^^^^ ^' ^®^' 
The effort to turn the wheel may be rendered extremely 
difficult, and its speed will then become very slow ; or, it 

c 



34 



Report of Bir- 

Sst.^^""^ ^''^^' different construction. 



may be made exceedingly rapid, the speed being then 
immense ; — and this varies according to the caprice of the 
supervisor, by whom the regulating lever is moved at 
pleasure. It is described by Mr. Sturge : — 

" Almost every one of these instruments of punishment is of a 
This was a cylinder, about ten feet in 
diameter, with broad steps. The hand-rail above it has eight pair 
of straps fastened to it, with which the hands of the prisoners are 
secured. The board under the hand-rail descends perpendicularly 
towards the wheel, and does not therefore afford the slightest 
protection to the prisoners in case of their hanging. The steps 
of the wheel project about twelve or fifteen inches beyond the 
board, and are bevelled at the edge, so that the keen side revolves 
much against the bodies, knees, and legs of the prisoners, with tor- 
turous effect." " It is an instrument of a dreadful kind, and one 
stuige's joiunai: of the supervisors ' acknowledged, that it was so severe a punish- 
Page 190. ment that it could not safely be inflicted more than two or three 

times a day.' " 

The system of flogging is continued, by legal enactment, 
among the men ; — and, in the workhouse discipline, among 
the women. Under the Slave Law, 39 lashes was the 
maximum for domestic offences, for which, now, 50 may be 
given. The following list shews the punishments which 
may be inflicted under the Jamaica Laws : — 

Lashes. 
Absence for two days in a fortnight . . .20 

Refusing or neglecting labour . . . .20 

Wilful negligence — damaging property . . 20 

Drunkenness — first offence , . . .20 

Frivolous complaints ...... 20 

Absence for three successive days . . . .30 

Wandering beyond plantation without leave . . 30 
Absence for one week . . . . . .39 

Insolence ........ 39 

Keeping fire-arms, gunpowder, &c. . . .39 

Insubordination ....... 39 

Drunkenness — second offence in the same month . 40 
Endangering property by careless use of fire . . 50 
111 use of cattle ....... 50 

Injuring property ...... 50 

Destroying property . . . . . .50 

Combined resistance . . . . . .50 

Riotous assemblage . . . . . .50 

Attempting to quit the Island . . . .50 

Indolence ........ 50 



36 



Neglect of work ....... 

Improper performance of work . . . . 

Assisting Apprentice to quit the Island 
Establishing a distinct community 
Inferior misdemeanors, whether against employers 
or any other persons ...... 



Lashes. 
50 
50 
50 
50 

50 



There are twelve offences, for which various punishments 
may be given of 20, 30, 39, 40 lashes, and thirteen for 
which 50 lashes can be inflicted. 

The following is a Summary of Punishments inflicted on the Apprenticed 
Labourers in the British Colonies : viz. in the first five Colonie.s, men- 
tioned below, from the 1st of August, 1834, to the 31st of May, 1836, a 
period of 22 months ; and, in the other Colonies, for the terms respectively 
specified. Compiled from Parliamentary Returns. 





No. of 


Number Punished. 


Total. 


■By 

Flogging. 


Average 
Number of 

Stripes. 


Total 

Amount of 

Lashes. 


other 


COLONY. apprenticed 
j Labourers. 


Males. 


Females. 


Punish- 
ments. 




260,000 
69,000 
72,000 
21, .300 
10,500 


35,-536 
9,030 
7,691 
2,667 
1,114 


22,881 

8,120 

8,539 

2,195 

767 


58,417 

18,0.50 

16,230 

4,862 

1,881 


10,770 

2,466 

2,668 

399 

747 


22i 

14i 

20 

20 

19 

14 

16§ 
22 

18§ 
19 
]8i 
27 

28| 

'I' 


242,3 1 1 

35,757 

53,360 

7,980 

14,193 


47,647 

15,584 

13,562 

4,463 

1,134 


Barbadoes 


British Guiana 

Grenada 


St. Lucia 






433,000 


56,938 


42,502 


99,440 


17,050 


353,601 


82,390 


St. Kitts (9 months)., 

Nevis ditto 

St. Vincent ditto 

Cape of Good Hope 

(for 12 months) 

Mauritius (13 months) 
Montserrat (18 ditto) .. 
Trinidad ditto .... 
Honduras ditto.... 
Tortola (19 months).. 
Dominica (20 months) 
Tobago (21 months).. 
Bahamas (21 months) 


13,.500 

6,200 

19,300 

54,66o 
5,000 

16,800 
1 ,650 
4,200 

12,000 
9,800 

10,200 


1,-536 

330 

2,021 

814 

10,946 

904 

1,900 

79 

401 

1,271 

1,51 1 

632 


1,778 

213 

1,861 

326 
3,425 
602 
1,-563 
100 
287 
894 
952 
467 


.3,314 
543 

3,882 

1,140 

14,371 

1,-566 

3,463 

179 

688 

2,165 

2,463 

1,099 


.358 
261 
476 

7,304 
346 

1,0-50 
33 
146 
716 
636 
161 


5,012 
4,3-56 
10,472 

131,472 

6,574 

19,425 

891 

1,825 

20,406 

7,950 

1,127 


2,956 

282 

3,406 

7,067 

1,220 

2,453 

146 

542 

1,449 

1,827 

938 




162,650 


22,345 


12,268 


34,873 


11,487 


209,510 


22,286 


Grand Total . . 


585,650 


79,283 


54,770 


134,313 


28,537 


563,111 


104,676 



In reference to arbitrary punishment, in the houses of 
correction and workhouses, extracts from the communi- 
cations of a Special Magistrate to the Marquis of Sligo, 
may be adduced. Mr. Baynes dates the first, Aylmers, 
St. John's, 29th June, 1836. 



36 

" Within these few weeks, the House of Correction has been 
opened for the reception of prisoners. I had ever observed and 
deprecated the savag-e and disgusting custom of putting the neck- 
collar on females, and have openly expressed my opinion thereon, 
long before the completion of the House of Correction. On my 
first visit to that Institution, your Excellency may judge of my 
surprise, at finding a miserable object, a female of middle age, 
committed by me as a runaway, whom I had positively directed 
in my committal to be exempted from all descriptions of labour, 
and not to be put on the tread-mill, being manifestly sick, and 
afflicted, as the supervisor afterwards informed me, with that 
dreadful disease, the cocoa-bay, loaded with a heavy chain, and 
secured by the neck by a collar attached to it. I immediately 
gave the supervisor, Mr. Patrick Thomas, orders to remove the 
chain and collar, not only from this individual, but from several 
others in the same situation, all females. This was done — and I 
gave him positive directions never to put a chain on a female on 
any account, if an apprentice committed by me. I also directed 
him not to cut the hair of females, nor to put them on the tread- 
mill, unless positively so commanded in my committal. I regret 
to say, that Dr. Loane, the senior Magistrate of this parish, for- 
getting the high and responsible situation he fills, has, in manifest 
violation of the Abolition Law, and of the undoubted privilege of 
the apprentices to be punished by a Special Magistrate only, — 
interfered with, and obstructed me in the faithful execution of 
some of my most troublesome duties, by ordering the said female 
apprentice to be collared and chained, and put to the tread-mill, 
previously having her hair cut ; all in contempt and contradiction 
of the lawful authority and sentence of me, the Special Justice 
of the district, and the sole Magistrate possessing any jurisdiction 
whatever over the said apprentices, as far as regards the invasions 
of the act for the abolition of slavery." 

The second is dated otli July, 1836 : — 

" I reported to your Excellency seven instances of what I termed 
irregularity, which have lately occurred in the St. John^s House of 
Correction. What name to give to the following facts, which have 
come out in evidence before Mr. Bedford and myself, I am at a loss to 
conceive. From Friday morning, at eight o'clock, the total c[uan- 
tity of food served out to the unfortunate prisoners in the House 
of Correction, about ten or twelve in number, until four o'clock in 
the afternoon of Monday, was four heads of corn, during the 
whole of four days, and half a shad per diem. This, the entire 
weight of which was not, perhaps, more than twenty-four ounces, 
was, I repeat, the total quantity of food allowed them for four 
days. This is sufficiently dreadful ; but what will your Excel- 



37 

lency feel, when I add, that the above allowance — certainly not, 
if continued for eight days, sufficient to have saved these un- 
happy creatures from death by starvation — was appropriated out 
in the following manner ? — three heads of corn on Friday ; one 
ditto on Saturday; none at all on Sunday; none on Monday till 
evening, when they got some cocoas. Their sufferings, the depo- 
nents affirm to have been dreadful. The cause of this execrable 
barbarity I have not yet discovered. Though extremely unwell, 
and greatly harassed, I shall proceed to Point Hill, at once, to 
make further inquiries.^' 

The condition of the gaols has been matter of reiterated 
ccmplaints, occurring' in official correspondence. It will 
suffice, in proof of this general statement, to adduce Lord 
Glenelg's despatch of the 31st May, 1837. He enters atNo.ioo. 
great length into the subject, and thus classes his animad- 
versions : — 

" The first defect which I have to notice, is a want of uniformity 
in the management of the different gaols in the island; — the 
punishment being in some places severe, — in others so trifling as 
scarcely to be regarded. 

" The second defect to which I beg leave to direct your atten- 
tion, arises from the construction and arrangement of the gaols. — - 
Many of the gaols and buildings are defective for the purposes of 
the Act, as is evident from the reports of the custodes. 

" Another defect which I have to notice, refers to the nature of 
the labour and employment of the prisoners. 

" The last defects I have to notice, are the neglect of frequent 
periodical and casual visitations by the magistrates ; and the want 
of adequate provision for the religious and moral instruction of 
the Negroes. 

" The clause in the Gaol Act of Jamaica which relates to the 
appointment of Visiting Justices to inspect each prison, house of 
correction, hospital, and asylum, if necessary, once every day, 
seems to have been almost totally disregarded in all tlie institu- 
tions." 

In his instructions of the 18th January, 1836, the Mar- 
quis of Sligo directs the Special Magistrates, — 

"In their adjudications of punishments, to take this as their E^p(^CMmnons 

great end and object the total abolition of the lash." Appendix, page ' 

How far this object has been attained, may be learned PariiamentaiT 
from his Lordship's despatch of the 13th June, 1836, in LslleTioVi- ' 
which he states, that he is convinced that the practice " has ^^s^^so. 
been carried on to a greater extent than he has been able to 



38 

ascertain." Sir Lionel Smith, the present Governor, is said 
to have remarked, on the efifects of the flogging, — " that he 
had seen soldiers who had received 300 lashes, not halfso 
much mangled, as the Apprentices under the operation of 
the Jamaica cat.'''' 

The atrociously inhuman practice of flogging females is 
still maintained, in the system of prison discipline. John 
Jeremie, Esq., in his evidence before the Committee, says, — 
Report Commons "That the Act in aid sanctions, indirectly, female flogging, 
Page 36. No. 343, cvcn for predial and domestic offences; and, that it strikes at*the 
^^ ^^i- very spirit of the Imperial Enactment. The Imperial Act, by the 

17th clause, prohibits the whipping or beating of females for any 
offence whatever, except under some law or police regulation in 
force against, or applicable to, all other persons of free condition. 
It appears that the whipping of free females is allowed in houses of 
correction and workhouses; but on such occasions it is of course 
restricted to persons confined in those places by virtue of some 
general law, and not by virtue of laws relating to Apprentices ; 
but apprenticed females, who have merely violated an appren- 
ticeship enactment, may also be sent to the workhouse; and the 
moment they enter it, they are subjected to the general regulations 
of that workhouse, and have been flogged, as I understand, in 
many cases, in consequence." 

The efl"ect of these two enactments, taking the 22nd sec- 
tion of the Act in Aid in conjunction with the 17th of the 
Imperial Act, is to subject females to flogging for domestic 
ofl'ences. 

In the analysis of the Jamaica acts, it is justly observed : — 
Report Commons " The attempt to distinguish between the original sentence of 

Committee, 183fi: . • i. i xi i- • t ^y ^ i . i i i 

App. page26. imprisonment, and the disciphne that may, and most probably 
will, follow upon it, (the offence committed being no offence 
against a general law of the Colony), is a mere evasion, though 
hitherto a successful one, of one of the most peremptory and 
stringent provisions of the Imperial Legislature." 

One of the most devoted advocates of the cause of the 
Negro, says, — 

D. O'Conneii, *' There was one point which I was the humble instrument of 

Esq.,M.p. getting introduced into the Bill, — it was a clause, as I thought. 

Speech at Exeter * * in • n mii-.ii r-i-i-i" 

Hall, 23d Nov. to prevent the tloggmg or women. 1 he I7th clause of the Eman- 

^^^' cipation Act, absolutely prohibited the Colonial Legislature from 

making laivs of a peculiar description, and one of these was the 

punishment of apprenticed labourers, being feinales, by whipping. — 

Then came a proviso, that nothing contained in that Act should 



39 

exempt the Apprentices from punishment, by any law or regulation 
being in force against, or applying to, persons in a free condition. 
It is said — they may flog where white persons could be flogged. 
The Act of Parliament, however, says, ' Any law or regulation, 
being in force against, or applying to white persons.' But is 
apprenticeship law applicable to white persons? In point of law, 
and of plain common sense, the females could not be flogged, 
because white persons could not be flogged under the apprentice- 
ship law ; and it was only left open to flog Apprentices for the 
same crimes that white persons might commit. They were in- 
tended to be upon the same footing. True, females are not 
ordered to be flogged, they are sent to the tread-mill ; but there 
is a man who flogs them there if they do not dance, as they 
call it, according to his pleasure." 

That this is frequently practised, is evident from the 
testimony of many suffering witnesses, as well as from 
Government inquiries. 

James Williams, whose narrative has been substantiated vidcpafjesi. 
by an investigation before Government Commissioners, re- 
cords some heart melting tales of merciless and agonizing 
cruelty. 

" There was one old woman with grey head, belonging to Mr. wiiiiamss Nar- 
Wallace, of Farm; and she could not dance the mill at all; she '''^*>^'®' I'^^e . 
hung by the two wrists, which were strapped to the bar, and the 
driver kept on flogging her ; she get more than the rest ; her clothes 
cut off with the cat, — the shoulder-strap cut with it, and her shift 
hung down over that side, — then they flog upon that shoulder, 
and cut it up very bad ; but all the flogging couldn't make she 
dance the mill, and when she come down, all her back covered 
with blood !" 

" There was a great many woman in the workhouse, and several idem, ])age 12. 
have sucking child ; and there was one woman quite big with 
child, and them make her dance the mill too, morning and even- 
ing — she not able to dance good, and them flog her. She com- 
plain about her stomach hurt her, and I see her several times go 
and beg the overseer not to work her on the mill ; but him say, 
not him send her there, and he must do his duty. — All the woman 
that not able to dance, was flog most dreadful." 

" Elizabeth Mason, from Mount Campbell, was in for seven wem, page 17. 
days, to dance the tread-mill ; she not able to dance good ; after 
she been on a little time, she miss step, and drop, and hang by 
her two wrists ; then the boatswain flog her with the cat, as hard as 
he could put it, — then she try to fetch up, and catch the step, but 
I'all again, and them keep on flog, and when they tire of flogging. 



40 



Parliamentary 
Papers, part 3 : 
1836. 166. 1. 
Page 344. 

Vide page 43. 



Parliamentary 
Papers, part 3 : 
1836. 166. 1. 
Page 380. 



then they let her alone, and let the mill go on mashing her legs ; 
all the skin was bruise of her shins, and her legs cut up with the 
cat." 

" There was another woman, from Drax Hill, on the mill. She 
didn't dance good, and they flog her very much ; and when she 
find the flogging come too hard, she call out, ' Massa! me no one 
flesh; me two flesh I' — She was in the family way, — the overseer 
said he didn't care ! !" 

In the report of S. Bourne^ Esq., a Special Magistrate, 
dated March 30th, 1836, he says, — 

" There have been several cases recently before me of an aggra- 
vated nature. vVn overseer has been convicted of flogging the 
children when they do not please him, and of putting even girls 
on the back of the negro, and flogging them himself" 

In his despatch of the 13th June, 1836, the Marquis of 
Sligo forwards the cases which he laid before the House of 
Assembly, to the number of twenty-four, in which females 
had been subjected to corporeal puishment. Some of these 
are here selected. — 

"Half-way Tree, since June, 1835. — Agnes Davis, flogged 
by Edward Phillips, in the field, on Monday, and again on 
Thursday ; — proved in evidence, that many other women were 
flogged at the same time. 

" IBetween the 15th of October and 15th January. — Jane Rent- 
ford, by Nelson, the boatswain, with a cat, when on the tread- 
wheel ; she fell off the rail, and cried for water, and the boatswain 
flosf^ed her across the shoulders with the cat. Whiteman, the 
overseer, was present, and ordered it. 

" Henny was severely flogged on the mill by Woolfrys, the 
driver, by Whitmore's orders. 

" Amelia Black, apprentice to Andrew Simpson, on coming 
into the workhouse, her head shaved by Mr. Liddell; — he kicked 
her with his feet in the presence of Neptune and Mrs. Liddell. 
When put on the mill, was struck by Neptune, in the presence of 
Whitemore and Liddell, who did not stop it. Neptune next day 
struck her more severely ; saw many females with marks of the 
cat on their back. 

"Falmouth, 20th June, 1835. — Sarah Jarrett was brought to 
bed of a child, within the month after her punishment was in- 
flicted. 

" Mandeville, about the \Oth of September. — Mary Sarjeant and 
Sarah Crozzle were seen in Mandeville workhouse, by a Special 
Justice, with a severely lacerated back, the result of flogging ; — 



41 

and as the Justice entered, fell from the wheel to the ground, in 
a state of debility ; the driver ran to flog her, and had his cat up- 
lifted, when the Magistrate stopped him, and reported the case. 

"St. George's, \5th May. — Anna Maria Thompson. At the 
inquest held on the body, it was found, by the Supervisor, that 
he had seen her flogged ; — and that the driver had orders to flog 
any one who did not perform the work. Moody, the driver, 
swore he had flogged her four times in the week.'' 

The following reports were also presented to the Assem- 
bly .— 

"Spanish Town House of Correction, \'2lh June, 1836. — Exami- Parliamentary 
nations before Special Justices Moresby, Higgins, and Hill. is^jir'^'itio! i.' 

"Colin M'Kenzie, constable and head task-master, sworn ; I'age 38i. 
states, that in April, 1835, he was appointed task-master to the 
mill; his particular duty was to look after the mill, directing its 
labour, with a boatswain under him ; — that sometimes the magi- 
strates, who might casually visit, have given various orders with 
I'espect to prison discipline, which deponent always considered it 
was his bounden duty to execute; — that, on several occasions, 
Mr. Charles Gordon, a magistrate of the parish, had directed 
deponent to use the cat, in coercing females as well as males on 
the tread-mill ; — that this had been done in Mr. Charles Gordon's 
presence by his express orders, to one and all the females, — this 
has occurred when they hung down; — on these occasions they 
have been well licked, the boatswain striking all the parts of the 
legs that were bare; — that this coercing females tvith the cat having 
been done in defiance of Mr. Special Justice Moresby's orders to 
the contrary, deponent has told Mr. Gordon, that he would not 
use this disciplin but by express orders from Mr. Gordon himself 
as a magistrate, and then he would not do it unless Mr. Gordon 
were present; — these orders have been given, under these circum- 
stances, by Mr. Gordon ; and, by deponent, the punishment of the 
cat has been inflicted on females, not once, but several times." 

" Prospect Hill, ^d March, 1836. — Catherine Shaw, Susannah 
White, Isabella Williams, Becky Walker, and Little Farry put 
on the back of William Bryant, and flogged by Mr. Chevannes; 
— reported by Mr. Bourne. vide page 42. 

"N.B. — Catherine Shaw aged twelve years ; the rest, likewise 
children." 

In a letter of H. Moresby, Esq. to Lord Sligo, dated 
Kingston, 5th January, 1836, he reports : — 

" I proceeded yesterday to the House of Correction, to obtain Pai-iiamentaiy 
the information desired by your Excellency; and on making the is?"* ico^l" 
necessary inquiries from Mr. Aitchinson, the superintendent of ^^8*^*^3- 



42 

that institution, I was informed bj'' him, that the flogging of 
females had been discontinued, since he had held the situation of 
Superintendent. 

" This statement, being so contradictory to the affidavits I had 
previously taken, and the information I had received, I requested 
of Mr. Aitchinson to accompany me to Mr. Coffee, the head 
boatswain. Mr. Aitchinson demurred ; — but on my proceeding to 
the tread-mill, where Mr. Coffee presides, Mr. Aitchinson peremp- 
torily and publicly ordered Mr. Coffee not to answer any questions 
I might put. I still proceeded, and asked Mr. Coffee if it was 
the practice to flog females, either with the cat, pointing to one 
hanging up close by, or with a stick, whenever they refused, 
either from incapacity or obstinacy, to dance the mill. Mr. Coffee 
said, he could not disobey his superior by answering me." 

Prefixed to this are the affidavits of Martha Whittaker, 
Jane Browne, and Amelia Browne, sworn 13th June, 1836, 
before George Ouseley Higgins, Esq. In each case, the 
injury sustained was so severe as to require medical treat- 
ment. 

The following extract of a letter to the Editor of the 
Falmovith Post, from a gentleman of unimj)eachable christian 
character, appears in that paper of November 9th, 1837 : — 

" I am sorry to inform you, that a knowledge of the awful 
disclosures made before the Commissioners, Messrs. Gordon and 
Daughtry, of this renowned parish, has not put a stop to the 
perpetration of acts, so disgraceful to humanity, and so injurious 
to the prosperity of the colony. The day after you left this, my 
informant states, that one of our would-be great men, a resident 
proprietor in the interior of the parish, aided and abetted by his 
mother, his sister, and his brother-in-law, a candidate for holy 
orders, caused a most unmerciful flogging to be inflicted on the 
back and shoulders of one of his female apprentices, for no other 
offence than that of looking upon him (as she solemnly avers,) 
while inspecting the gang in the field. The unfortunate woman 
states, that her master, in the first instance, struck her in the 
field with the constable's long stick, and afterwards made three 
men bring her into the house, when the youthful student of divi- 
nity struck her in the face with his fist, — the amiable sister pro- 
duced two horsewhips, handing one to one of the three men, and, 
in conjunction with the aged mother, goaded him on to cut her 
WELL, gave him the other whip in the middle of the flaggellation, 
saying, the first did not cut her back enough, and told him that 
he must give their victim two doubloons^ tvorlh, — one for the master 
and one for her. She even sugjjested that the woman should be 



43 

stripped; told the mother of the sufferer, who was called in to 
be a spectator of her daughter's grief, and lacerated flesh, that 
if she said a word she should get as much, and prevented her, 
during a fainting fit, occasioned by the flogging, when an expo- 
sure of her daughter's body took place, from pulling down her 
clothes, — although the master and the man who had flogged her 
were present. The person employed to inflict this illegal punish- 
ment executed his commission faithfully ; for the poor woman's 
back and shoulders, when I saw her a few days after, were covered 
loilh fresh sores. At present I withhold the names of the parties, 
the case not having been brought befoi'e a Judicial Tribunal, and 
being anxious to obtain the testimony of the mother in confir- 
mation of the woman's account ; but I wish you to publish the 
facts." 

It would never be believed that such practices should 
obtain under a system, which assures its subjects of absolute 
freedom, subject to this restriction, and this restriction only, 
that they shall render an apprenticed service to their em- 
ployers; — and one of whose fundamental articles is, that 
" Women shall not be flogged;" — were it not that 
the witnesses are so many, so various, and so credible. 
Apprentices and planters, mill drivers and missionaries, 
magistrates and governors, concur in verifying their state- 
ments, by appeal to a full and fair induction of facts, that 
females are ignominiously, — scandalously, — indecently, — 
extravagantly, — and perpetually subject to the torture of 
the cat and the whip. With the most contemptuous disre- 
gard of the British Act, and the solemn determination of 
the British Parliament, and the unanimous execration of 
the British people, is this torturing outrage, in their own 
Colonies, continued. The hateful climax of fraud, deception, 
and iniquity, is attained; — Women are flogged. 

7. The inadequacy of the Penal Laws affecting the Masters 
and their subordinate Agents. 

There is no reciprocity in the penalties prescribed by the 
Local Legislatures ; and, in their enforcement, injustice 
has been repeatedly suffered by the Apprentices. The 
master is remunerated to excess, by mulcts of time and 
extra labour, for any loss of the one, or insufficiency in the 
other. The Apprentice is not reconapensed for injury; and, 
in the case of a complaint being deemed frivolouus, and 
dismissed, he is liable to incarceration or other infliction. 



44 



Jamaica Act, 
sec. 68. 



Jamaica Act, 
sec. 44. 



Eeport Commons Xhc hiffhest penalty that can now be enforced upon an 

Committee, 1830 : ■. " r -i • rr • Oi- c i ^ 

Appendix, pages empioyei', oi' any ot nis estate omcers, is ±5, or nve clays 
4.18,19. imprisonment; whereas, under the Slave Code, a much 

greater fine was allowed ; — for an offence, on the commission 
and proof of which, the payment of £20 might be de- 
manded, — now the maximum is 40s. ; — other penalties were 
fixed at £5, 5£20, £'26, £100, or imprisonment for twelve 
months ; and in some cases the offender was declared unfit 
to exercise authority over any labourer within the precincts 
of the Colony. If the Slave Law was just in its provisions, 
what must be said of the Apprentice Law, a remedial 
measure, with the highest penalty of £b, or a week's im- 
prisonment ? 

It is also declared, that " all fines and penalties imposed, 
are to be applied for the use of the public of the Island." 

A review of the Colonial Laws shows, that an enormous 
amount of punishment maybe awarded against the Appren- 
tice, in labour during his own time, according to the 
discretion mid opinion of any Special Justice on the seem- 
ing requirement of the offender's case. The master is 
not merely repaid for any detriment to his property or 
work, but gains positively a great advantage by the impo- 
sition of the penalty ; while the fine which the magistrate is 
empowered, but not compelled, to demand of the employer, 
is, of itself, inadequate to cover the loss, in many instances, 
endured by the Apprentice ; and which, when paid, instead 
of assisting him to recover the damage, passes into the 
coffers of the public, — that is, of the aggregate body of 
those who are liable to be convicted of the charge to which 
that punishment is attached. A twofold injustice is done 
to the labourer, — a twofold premium is offered to oppression. 

As the Special Magistrate is appointed to protect the 
Apprentices, and so to maintain a constant supervision 
over the estates on which they are employed, as to prevent 
any abuse of the power of the master ; it would appear to 
an impartial mind, that it was not only a legitimate, but an 
indispensible employment of authority, in making himself 
acquainted as fully as possible with their condition, to 
inquire, on his judicial visitation, whether they had any 
grievances of which to complain. This would be only giving 
the timid a fair opportunity of making known the wrongs, 
which humanity and law require to be redressed ; but the 
gratuitous mention of which, would subject them to renewed 



45 

maltreatment. It is, therefore, impossible to discern the 
equity of one of tlie charges of a Colonial Judge to the 
jury, in which — ■ 

" He determined, or concurred in the determination, that a Gicneigs De- 
Special Justice has no right to ask an apprenticed labourer, what iSiiti— Report" ' 
complaint he has to make; but must confine himself to Sfoinor to *^''?™™''"q,^"?*' 

i ' 1 rml tee, 1830: App. 

the plantation, to receiving- such complaints as may be preferred Page 237. 
to him there, and to holding, wiUiin the limits of the plantation 
itself j and not elsewhere, a court for hearing, and adjudicating 
upon the complaints, which he may so receive/' 

" The Court also held, that no Sipecial Justice of the Peace had vide Trial Mason 

' r versus (Jldrey. — 

a right to send any person to a plantation, to warn them that a Eepoit commons 
special court would be held to hear complaints." App.'page'm'*' 

Hereby the Apprentice is not only deprived of the full 
benefit of magisterial investigation, but it is decided by the 
Supreme Court, that he is not to have any opportunity 
of preparing' to submit a case to the bench, by such a notice 
of its session, as should enable him to arrange for the 
production of witnesses, (which certainly requires some 
previous consideration and time,) in support of his alle- 
gation. 

If, in consequence of being placed in this unfortunate 
predicament, the applicant cannot secure and arrange ade 
quate proof, when a hasty summons admonishes him that 
the court is sitting, and the complaint, which of itself may 
be true, but not borne out by judiciously and fairly selected 
evidence, is adjudged to be frivolous ; the complainant is 
there and then made the defendant, — ipso facto, he is held 
guilty of a '\frivolous'''' charge; and, for an offence bearing Jamaica Act, 
a name so vague and indefinite, he may be sentenced to 
the endurance of 20 stripes, or to labour for his master's 
advantage in his ovr'n time, paying double what he may 
have lost in attending the court. 

Should a complaint be really unfounded, resulting from 
an erroneous judgment of his legal rights, or an excess of 
sensibility in the sufferance of legalised wrongs, the punish- 
ment, then, far exceeds the criminality of the accused. The 
operation of this clause is calculated to deter the labourer 
from any representations at all to his lawful and stipendiary 
protector; under the fear, that through the vagueness of 
the law, the disadvantages of his servile condition, the 
crafty policy of the task masters, or any collusion with 
the judicial functionary, the charge should call clown upon 



46 

him, ill addition to the increased wrath of the oppressor, the 
unmerited condemnation of the bench. 

In cases of clear and manifest guilt, juries have ignored 
the bills of indictment. No evidence more decisive on this 
question is needed, than that of Sir George Grey. He 
takes occasion to observe : — 

Report Commons " Looking at the State of colonial society generally, as affected 
PagHss'^'No. ' by the long continuance of Slavery in the West Indies, there is 



5628. 



much reason to disti-ust the impartiality of juries, as at present 
constituted ; not that I mean to imply, that they are guilty of a 
deliberate violation of their oath as jurymen; but it is the case in 
this country, and everywhere else, that persons are liable insen- 
sibly to be affected by influences which ought not to find their 
way into a jury-box; and the greater the division of one class of 
society from another, the greater the distrust I should entertain of 
the decisions of juries, constituted from one class of society only." 

In Hanover workhouse, an aged and diseased man died 
in consequence of the injuries there sustained ; and though 
the attempt was made, by the medical practitioner, to shew, 
that death might have been occasioned by other means, yet 
it must appear to every impartial judge, who is removed 
from the influence of colonial interests and sympathies, 
that on balancing the probabilities of the two cases pre- 
sented by that gentleman, the preponderance would be 
found greatly in favour of the charge, — that the parties 
inflicting the punishments were guilty of murder. 

The following are extracts from the minutes of evidence : — 
ParUamentan^ Wednesday, 16th March, 1836. — The trial at the instance of 

1836: 166. 1. ' the King V. Thomas Jenkins, John Thomas, and Archibald 
Page 301. Campbell, for the murder of Frederick Shrieves, was proceeded in. 

John Castello deposed, that he lives at Lucea; — witness 
knows the house of correction; — was at a coroner's inquest; — sat 
there, and was the foreman ; — the inquest was on the body of a 
man named Frederick Shrieves, who was a very aged man, and 
apparently a very diseased one ; — the inquisition was taken on the 
2 1st of August, last year; — on examining the deceased, found his 
legs swollen with elephantiasis, and his back dreadfully lacerated, 
and actually in a state of putrescence ; — thought that the lacera- 
tion was with the cat, — this came out on the jury : — Shrieves died 
that morning, certainly not twenty-four hours before the jury sat. 

Cross-examined. — Witness thinks Shrieves died from the re- 
peated floggings he received ; — cannot say that the back-bone 
bore marks of repeated floggings, but it bore that of a very severe 



47 

" Richard Kennedy deposed, that he remembered Shrieves 
coming to the house of correction, where Mr. Jenkins was over- 
seer; — that he was locked up in a dark room, by Mr. Jenkins' 
order; — he came into the house of correction on a Saturday, about 
eleven o'clock; — on the Tuesday after, Shrieves was making a 
noise, and he was ordered to be flogged by Mr. Jenkins, and 
John Thomas gave him the flogging ; — Shrieves was quite sound 
at the time when he was ordered to be flogged; — he got lashed 
from the drivers ; — some of the beating he got, Mr. Jenkins did 
not know of; — he was a lame body ; — ^witness remembered John 
Thomas beating Shrieves, and told him to take care, as he would 
get himself into crime for that man ; and he answered, not to 
bother him ; — John Thomas penned Shrieves up in the kitchen, 
and beat him with his cat, and with the stick also ; and, on his 
coming out, told Archibald Campbell that he had given that 
fellow a good beating, until his cat-stick broke. John Thomas 
beat Shrieves again on Wednesday, with Mr. Jenkins' knowledge ; — 
witness told John Thomas repeatedly, not to carry Shrieves out 
to work, but he would, until one day Mr. Jenkins went out to the 
gang, and ordei'ed him in ; Shrieves came that day home in the 
cart, and Mr. Jenkins ordered him to be locked up in the dark 
room ; Shrieves remained there until the evening, about four 
o'clock, when the gang came home, and they gave him a little 
water, but he got nothing to eat that day, U7itil Thursday he got a 
a quart of corn ; — he got a beating about eleven o'clock, by John 
Thomas; — the man was put into the dark room, and the next 
morning (Friday) he died ! 

Frederick Spence deposed, that he was working at Miss Hine's 
house, before Shrieves' death; — heard one of his young men say, 
"They will kill the man!" — came out and saw John Thomas 
beating Shrieves on the king's road ; Shrieves was working, and 
chained to another man ; — saw John Thomas flogging him, and 
he fell down; the flogging was not stopped; Shrieves was beat 
on the ground ; — witness went down to the bay, and told Mr. 
Jenkins what had happened with the driver and Shrieves, when 
Jenkins replied, " He was only doing his duty, and that he teas the 
FIRST DRIVER in the Island." Witness told Mr. Jenkins, "If 
you will continue to permit the driver to flog that man Shrieves, 
he will siirely die;" and told Jenkins, that if he (witness) should 
be in the parish when that man died, he would go voluntarily and 
give his evidence at the Coroner's inquest. Witness saw Shrieves 
after his death ; went in after Coroner's inquest, and save his back 
in a state of mortification ; in witness's opinion mortification 
had taken place. 

Thomas Lee deposed, that he is a mason by trade; remembered 
seeing Shrieves on the 14th of August; — saw Mr. Jenkins ride 



48 ' 

up; Mr. Jenkins said, "Tell John Thomas, when he comes, to 
bring up Frederick Shrieves, Esquire, of Dumbarton Castle, the 
parson man, and I will give him a flogging." Upon this, Shrieves 
said to Mr. Jenkins, "Are you going to flog me again? Only 
last week you took me to the morass, and gave me 300 lashes." 
Mr. Jenkins said nothing to him, but rode off. 

By Jury — Shrieves did not seem to give cause when he was 
flogged. Witness could not bear to see a man of Shrieves' age 
flogged by a driver. 

William Brown, an apprenticed labourer, deposed, that he 
remembered old Shrieves; — witness remembered being at the 
house of correction for running away; — heard Shrieves making a 
noise on Sunday night, that Archibald Campbell had taken away 
his money from him. [Witness proceeds to state, that, on hearing 
the disturbance, Mr. Jenkins came.] Mr. Jenkins ordered Camp- 
bell to take him down to the marl-pit, to flog him. Shrieves was 
then chained with witness; Campbell went to the sea, and wet 
his cat, and ordered four men to hold his hands and feet ; witness 
being chained with him, was ordered to hold his head down. 
Mr. Jenkins came before the flogging commenced ; — they flogged 
Shrieves till the blood ran down, when Mr. Jenkins ordered 
witness to go and duck him in the sea; after which, they brought 
him up, and he went to work in the field until a week after, when 
he was not fit for work again. 

Reverend John Stainsby deposed, that he is clergyman at St. 
Lucea; — that he remembered Shrieves being at the Lucea House 
of Correction for some time; — witness saw him previous to his 
death ; — witness's impression was, that Shrieves was in a state of 
insanity; — witness, on one occasion, looked at Shrieves particu- 
larly, — his back being turned to witness, and having no clothes 
on his shoulders and back, saw stripes thereon; — Shrieves spoke 
incoherently, and said something like a prayer to Jesus Christ ; — 
his feet were in a swollen state,- — had elephantiasis on both feet; 
witness considered him in such a state that no order given to him 
had any permanent impression on his mind. 

Dr. George W. Towton deposed, that he is one of the medi- 
cal attendants at the Lucea House of Correction ; — remembered 
when Shrieves was confined there ; — his feet were a little swollen 
and large ; he had the appearance of elephantiasis at the time ; — 
he said he was very weak; — complained to witness on the 19th 
of August, — his complaint was debility ; — repeated flogging, want 
of food, and locking up, would increase debility ; — no application 
was made to witness, as doctor, till the 19th of August, when wit- 
ness ordered Shrieves to get nourishment, tonics, and spirits; — - 
witness cannot say what Shrieves got ; he came to witness and 
said, " he was sick ; " — felt his pulse, but did not examine his back; 



49 

Shrieves was an old man ; flogging, under certain circumstances, if 
blood came and matter was formed, would create mortification on 
such a subject as Shrieves. Witness was called in by the Coroner, 
and looked at the body ; — both shoulders had stripes on the shoulder 
blade ; there the skin was broken in one place, and ivas discharq. 
ing matter a little offensive ; some of the marks appeared to have 
been for a week or ten days — they were weals ; — the marks were 
not sufficient to cause death ; — witness is of opinion that they were 
not the cause of his death ; the hack was free from mortification ; 
Shrieves was not labouring under fever, nor did he die of 
fever; — he made no complaint to witness about being flogged; 
he walked pretty well on the 19th of August; the wound wit- 
ness perceived on the shoulders was healing; — if the death of 
Shrieves had proceeded from flogging, it would have caused 
mortification. 

Thomas Smith (called for the defence) deposed, that witness 
kept the workhouse books ; that the allowance per day was either 
a quart of corn and a herring, or the same of flour or rice; — the 
food did not vary every day; — knew Shrieves; — never heard 
him complain that he had no food ; — is pretty sure that he had 
it; — Shrieves was a no'sy crazy fellow. 

Thomas addressed the Jury, — that all he did was by the 
orders of Mr. Jenkins; and appealed to them if they had ordered 
persons under them to perform what they told them to do, 
whether they would not' require it to be done, throwing the 
responsibility upon Mr. Jenkins. Campbell also said a few 
words in the same strain. 

Mr. Attorney-General explained the law, on the difference 
between murder, and the minor off"ence of manslaughter. His 
Honor next summed up the evidence with great clearness and 
impartiality. 

"March 19. — The Jury find a verdict of 'Not Guilty;' 
but think it their duty to observe, that tlie prisoners were guilty 
of cruelty, and evinced a great want of feeling and humanity 
towards the deceased Shrieves. 

(Signed) "Richard Roe, Foreman, 

" Cum Sociis." 

On this abonfiinable business, Lord Glenelg very properly 
remarks, in his despatch, 14th June, 1836 : — 

"I have perused the proceedings in the trial of Jenkins, Thomas, ParUamentary 
and Campbell, with feelings which I will not attempt to express. Papers, pans: 

A^x-iTi , 11^ ..-7/ 1 1836. 166. 1. 

At a time when! have been led to entertain hopes (upon thepagesoe. 
"whole, I trust, not unfounded) that an improved state of public 
feeling had taken place in Jamaica, it is matter of deep regret and 
mortification, that a case should present itself, in which no con- 



50 

vietion could be obtained for a murder, committed with the most 
malignant cruelty, and proved by clear and uncontradicted evidence. 
I perceive that Jenkins has now been indicted for an aggravated 
assault. It is not stated that the same course has been taken with 
regard to Thomas and Campbell, whose conduct seems to have 
been little, if at all, less inhuman." 

By these means, in this and in other cases, the reports of 
which are found at length in the Parliamentary papers, jus- 
tice has been withheld from the suffering Apprentices, and 
they are denied their last solace. It is, indeed, " less terrible 
to endure, than to complain." 

Such, in substance, are the evils at work under a system 
professing to secure immediate relief, and progressive im- 
provement, to the sable subjects of the British crown. It 
is not af&rmed that they all co-exist, at the same time, on 
every plantation ; but it is asserted, on the authority of the 
Executive itself, that, on many of the estates, they are 
even now co-operative in debasing the character and con- 
dition of the Negroes. Unhappily, the British Law and 
the British Government have been alike inefficient, in en- 
deavouring to assert their rights, and obtain redress. 

In his message to the House of Assembly, of the 31st 
of October, Sir Lionel Smith recommends, — 

" Amendments to such of the practices of the law as have been 
found by the records of the Special Magistrates, the principal 
cause of complaints among the apprentices, and of consequent 
collision between the planters and Magistrates. 

" In these suggestions his Excellency proposes nothing which 
can materially tend to increase expenses not already established 
by law or usage. 

" Prudent and humane planters have already adopted what is 
recommended, and their properties present the good working of 
this system in peace and industry, without their resorting to the 
authority of the Special Magistrates ; but there are other pro- 
perties where neither the law of apprentices nor the usages of slavery 
have been found sufficient to guard the rights of the apprentices. 

" First — The Magistrates' reports show, that on some estates 
the apprentices have been deprived of cooks and ivater car- 
riers while at work in the field, — thus, the time allowed for 
breakfast, instead of being a period of rest, is one of con- 
tinual labour, as they have to seek for fuel and to cook. — 
The depriving them of ivater carriers is still more injurious, 
as the workmen are not allowed to quit their roivs to obtain it. 
Both these privations are detrimental to the planters' work. 
Second — A law seems wanting to supply the estates' hospitals with 



51 

sufficient attendants on the sick apprentice, as well as for the 
supply of proper food, as they cannot depend on their own 
grounds whilst unable to leave the hospitals. The 8(h clause of 
the abolition law has not been found strong enough to secure 
these necessary attentions to the sick. Third — In regard to jobbers 
more exposed to hardships than any other class. A law is greatly 
required, allowing them the distance they may have to walk to 
their work, at the rate of three miles an hour, and for compelling 
the parties hiring them to supply them with salt, food, and meal ; 
their grounds are oftentimes so many miles distant, it is impos- 
sible for them to supply thp.mselves. Hence constant complaints 
and irregularities. Fourth — That mothers of six children and 
upwards, pregnant icomen, and the aged of both sexes, would be 
greatly benefitted by a law enforcing the kind treatment which 
they received in slavery, but which is now considered optional, or 
is altogether avoided on many properties. Fifth — Nothing would 
tend more to promote general contentment, and repress the evils of 
comparative treatment, than the issue of fish as a right by law. 
It was an indulgence of slavery seldom denied, but on many 
properties is now withheld, or given for extra labour instead of 
wages. Sixth — His Excellency, during the last session, had the 
honour to address a message to the house for a stronger definition 
of working time. The clause of the act in aid expressed that it 
was the intention of the legislature to regulate " uniformity " of 
labour, but in practice there is still a great diversity of system. 
The legal adviser of the crown considers the clause active and 
binding ; the Special Magistrates cannot, therefore, adjudicate on 
disputes of labour under the eight-hour system, and the conse- 
quences have been continual complaints and bickerings between 
the Magistrates and managers, and discontent among the apprentices 
by comparison of the advantages which one system presents over 
the other. Seventh — If your Honourable House would adopt some 
equitable fixed principle for the value of apprentices desirous of 
purchasing their discharge, either by ascertained rates of weekly 
labour, or by fixed sums according to their trade or occupation 
which should not be exceeded, and allowing the deduction of 
one-third from the extreme value for the contingencies of mainte- 
nance, clothing, medical aid, risks of life, and health, it would 
greatly tend to set at rest due cause of constant disappointment. 
In proportion as the term of apprenticeship draws to a close, the 
demands for the sale of services have greatly increased. 

" It is in the hope that the Honourable House will be disposed 
to enforce a more general system of equal treatment, that his 
Excellency now circumstantially represents what have been the 
most common causes of complaint among the apprentices, and 
the island is subject to the reproach that the negroes, in some respects, 
arc now in a worse condition than they were in slavery." 



52 

VII. — The Submissiveness and Subordination of 
THE Labourers. 

That " the Nes-roes are quietly and inrlustriously labouring, 
under oppressions and injustice, which, were they not the 
most patient race on earth, or restrained by reli.'ious prin- 
ciple, would drive them to desperation," is proved by accu- 
mulated evidence in the innumerable reports of" the Custodes 
and Macjistrates, as printed by order of Parliament. Sir 
George Grey, in his examination, was asked, — 
Report of Com. "Slavery will have expired on Monday next, for two years. 
i«3s^: Page49i— Do you happen to know of any instance, in which there has been 
No. 5668. Jin insurrection of the negroes during that time?" 

He answered, — 

"No instance of insurrection has occurred within that period; 
there were some instances of insubordination, and of resistance to 
lawful auUiority, just at the commencement of the apprenticeship, 
in some of the colonies ; these ai'ose, I think, from misapprehen- 
sion of their condition ; but nothing which could be termed 
insurrection, or any thing like it, has since occurred." 

Sir George Grey was also asked, — 

" Do you go so far as to think, that the disposition of the negroes 
to work for ivayes has surpassed, not only the low expectations of 
the planters, but, the most sanguine expectations of the warmest 
friends of the negroes in this country ? " 

He said, — 

" I think it certainly has equalled the expectations of their san- 
guine friends. Judging of the negro character, by examples in 
the army and in the navy, and wherever the negro has been brought 
into contact with white men, in places where slavery did not exist, 
I am not aware of any inferiority, either in willingness to labour, 
or in general efficiency." 

Sir J. C. Smyth thus wrote from Demerara,in 1825, relative 

to the quantity of Sugar exported from that river during the 

previous six months : — 

Parliamentary "The facts upon which I have reasoned, have been carefully 

iwi^jts!' ^278. i. collected from the books of the Custom-house, and justify, in my 

Page 174. humble opinion, the most sanguine expectations, as to the future 

industry of the apprenticed labourers." 

MEMORANDA. 

" Slavery ceased on the 1st of August, 1834. Whatever sugar 
was shipped from this river, during the month of October, 
November, and December, 18U4, was produced by the labour of 



63 

the apprenticed labourers. If we compare the quantity as alluded 
to, with that shipped in former years, which was produced by the 
labour of the slaves, the result will enable us to form some opinion 
as to the working of the system." 

After presenting the details of his calculation, his Excel- 
lency says, — 

"It appears that from the River Demerara alone, 4,676 hogs- 
heads of sugar, during the last six months, more than (with a 
diminution of one-sixth of his labour) the planter had a right to 
expect ; and more than was produced by slave-labour, during the 
same periods, in 1831 and 1832. The accounts from Berbice are 
still more favourable." 

In the same despatch. Sir J. C. Smyth says, — 
" I cannot lay before your Lordship a stronger proof of the 
established tranquillity of this colony, even in the opinion of the 
colonial members of the court of policy, than by informing your 
Lordship, that instead of a serjeant and ten policemen, for each 
of the twelve judicial districts of this province, we have not as yet 
one single policeman. In no one part of His Majesty's dominions 
is the law more promptly obeyed, or the public tranquillity more 
firmly established." 

Lord Sligo's memoranda are to the same effect, and show, 
that, in spite of manifold obstructions interposed hy the 
tnasters, the produce of labour has been highly satisfactory. 
He concludes with this observation : — 

" I enclose herewith, some memoranda I have made, of con- 
clusions I have come to ; and have to apologize for the prolixity 
of the communication ; but, when I see attacks made on me here Parliamentary 
every day, accusing me of wilful and gross misrepresentations ; 1^33-5.' ^278. 1. 
and, when I know that they will be eagerly conveyed to England, i'»s® -^^• 
I am anxious to send home the antidote, if I am able to furnish 
one, so as to be in time to correct the effects of the poison, which 
I know to be on its passage home." 

By these memoranda, in addition to the many statements 
of Special Justices in their returns, it is proved, that under 
indignity, and barbarity, and injustice, the negro still 
toils on. If he has murmured, it is all he has attempted 
to do ; — retribution he has not sought. Many seem to sink 
into despondency ; but others have learned, by the influence 
of high and evangelical principle, so to exercise themselves, 
as to have " a conscience void of offence towards God, and 
towards man." Committing their cause to Him that judgeth 
righteously, and drawing nigh unto that Throne, where they 
have " obtained mercy and grace to help " them, in the time 



54 

of their need, they have renewed the energy of patient 
spirits; and, having " respect unto the recompense of re- 
ward," they still " endure, as seeing Him who is invisible." 

VIII. — The impossibility of refuting the Statements 

PUT FORTH RESPECTING THE EVILS OF THE SYSTEM, 
AND THE IMPRACTICABILITY OF ITS EFFICIENT OPE- 
RATION. 

The abundant references, in the present summary, to 
parliamentary documents and official reports, might have 
been much increased; — and the testimony of many en- 
lightened observers of the condition of the Colonies, cor- 
roborates the evidence therein furnished. In the preceding 
pages, extracts have been given from the narrative of James 
Williams, formerly an apprenticed labourer, belonging to 
a master of the name of Senior. Joseph Sturge, Esq. has, 
in his possession, the most satisfactory testimonials of his 
good character and veracity. Although this publication, 
when it appeared in the Colonies, called forth the most 
abusive and approbrious denunciations of parties implicated, 
the following official record, of the Government Commis- 
sioners of Inquiry, now gives it full authority. The Com- 
mission consisted of a Local Magistrate and a Special 
Justice, who both appear to have most faithfully and effici- 
ently performed the duty assigned to them. 

At the close of their labours, they handed in to the 
Governor the following Report : — 

"Falmouth, Oct. 21, 1837. 
"To HIS Excellency Sir Lionel Smith, &c., &c. 

"May it please your Excellency, — The Commissioners, in the 
prosecution of the inquiry which your Excellency was pleased to 
intrust to them, having taken the fullest evidence they could obtain 
upon the several subjects which the investigation was designed to 
embrace, have now the honour to transmit, for your Excellency's 
information, an authentic copy of their entire proceedings. 

" In reporting upon the general results of this extended inquiry, 
it has become the duty of the Commissioners to state, that the 
allegations of James Williams's Narrative have received few and 
inconsiderable contradictions, whilst every material fact has been 
supported and corroborated by an almost unbroken chain of con- 
vincing testimony. 

" Such being the conclusion of the Commissioners with respect 
to the Narrative, it can scarcely be necessary to add, that the 



55 

Abolition Law has not been properly administered in some parts 
of the parish of St Ann's; that the House of Correction of that 
parish was, until recently, a place of licentiousness and cruelty ; 
and that the tread-mill has been, from the time of its erection, and 
still is, an instrument rather of torture than of just and salutary 
punishment. 

" Upon these topics the commissioners have thought it right to 
report specifically, but with reference to others of no less interest, 
they leave the evidence to speak for itself; persuaded that the 
whole detail will be found important enough to command your 
Excellency's immediate attention. 

"George Gordon, J. P., St. James'. 

"J. Daughtrey, S. M." 

IX. — The Abolitionists in the Colonies. 

Antisrua set the noble example, and made the grand stage's Joumai: 

." /. . .^. Till Pages 18 — 79. 

experiment, ot entn-e emancipation ; and, though the 
measure was ultimately carried only by a casting vote, yet, 
alter two years of trial, it has " succeeded beyond the 
expectations of its most sanguine advocates." 

In Montserrat, an effort to introduce a similar measure 
was made, but failed. Some of the proprietors, however, 
adopted it on their own estates. " The live estates," 
says Mr, Sturge, " on which the Apprentices were liber- 
ated, are quite as efficiently cultivated by free labour as 
they were before." The testimony, even of opponents, 
assures us, that slave labour of every kind is more costly 
than that which is free. 

The result of a recent debate on this subject, in the 
Jamaica Assembly, has just been communicated, agreeably 
with the vote of the House, through the local journals. 

House of Assembly, Thursdatj, Oct. 26, 18.37. ^^^^^^Jf^' 
A motion was made that the House do come to the following isa?'. 
resolution : 

" Resolved, — 
" That this House, having reference to the Address presented 
to his Excellency, the Governor, this day, wherein they declare 
their anxiety to adopt all measures calculated to secure a success- 
ful transition from the apprenticeship to freedom, deem it highly 
inexpedient to entertain any measure, having for its object the 
abbreviation of the term of apprenticeship, as fixed by the abo- 
lition law. " 

Another motion was made to amend the said motion, by 
leaving out all the words after the first word ' that, ' and inserting, 
in lieu thereof, the following words : — 



56 

" This House, deeply convinced of the propriety of equalizing 
the apprenticeship, and hereby placing the entire apprentice 
population of the Island on a footing, and anxious to secure the 
future peace and prosperity of the country, whilst, at the same 
time, it carefully guards the interests of the masters and appren- 
tices, pledges itself to adopt, whenever called upon to do so, 
such Legislative measures as may be necessary to secure to the 
predial apprentices the enjoyment of unrestricted liberty, from 
and after the 1st of August, 1838, provided her Majesty's Go- 
vernment will guarantee to the persons entitled to the services of 
such predial apprentices, such compensation, either by a total 
or partial remission on the duties levied, in the mother country, 
♦ on the produce of this Island, — or, by a further grant of money, 

as may appear to this House fair and reasonable." 

A debate thereon arising, and the question being put on the 
said amendment, the House divided — the ayes went forth : — 

Ayes, 11.— Mr. Hart, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Jordon, Mr. Lake, Mr. 
J. S. Brown, Mr. Good, Mr. Whittaker, Mr Sanguinetti, Mr. 
Hill, Mr. Anderson, and Mr. Osborn. 

Koes, 18.— -Mr. Mitchel, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. R. All wood, Mr. 
Watt, Mr. Grosett, Mr. Collman, Mr. J. Allwood, Mr. Thompson, 
Mr. Barnett, Mr. Dallas, Mr. Barclay, Mr. Townsliend, Mr. 
Milner, Mr. Lowndes, Mr. Leslie, Mr. Wright, Mr. Berry, and 
Mr. Fairweather. 

It passed in the negative. 

Then the original motion being again read, was agreed to by 
the House. 

Ordered, "" 

That the above division, with names and numbers, be pub- 
lished once in the several newspapers of the Island. 
By the House, 

John G. Vidal, 

Clerk of the Assembly. 

Notwithstanding- this decision, it is gratifying to learn, 
that a feeling decidedly favourable to the emancipation of 
the Negroes is gaining strength in the Colonies. 

X. — As THE Friends and Protectors of the injured 
Sons and Daughters of Africa, the British People 

ARE once more SUMMONED TO THEIR DEFENCE. 

papersTparta'; Lord Glcnclg has pointed out with sufficient clearness, 
pa^e 14 ^^^ ^ ^^ sacredness of the compact to which the British Govern- 
ment, Parliament and people were parties, on the one hand, 



67 

and the Colonists on the other; "to the Aiithful perform- 
ance of which either party is bound by the most solemn 
oblif^ations." If, on the one part, " the payment of the com- 
pensation money wns the inevitable duty of this country, it 
is no less clearly due, that every one essential or valuable 
provision" of that compact, should be by them, on the other, 
scrupulously preserved. The former has been fully com- 
plied with— the latter shamefully and openly violated. 

The question now raised, by the abettors and defenders 
of the planters, whethei- the compact shall be broken, 
by any demand the nation may prefer, cannot be enter- 
tained; as the proof, that it has been broken in the multi- 
tude of instances adduced in the foregoing statement, is 
strong and undeniable. 

In the injured negro apprentices, the inalienable rights 
of man are, up to this moment, outraged, and the charter 
of his liberties trampled in the dust. Under the indomi- 
table and execrable tyranny held over them, and the dis- 
gusting and enormous indignities offered, especially to the 
tender sex, the sable petitioners for mercy have imploringly 
groaned out their plea — ^^ I am a MAN and a brother!" 
" / am a woman and a sister ! " and the plaintive remon- 
strance has been but the signal for renewed, ignominious, 
aggravated torture. 

In them, the majesty of the British people is insulted, — 
the solemnity of British law contemned, — the sanctuary of 
British freedom profaned. Their liberators from bondage 
extravagantly paid twenty millions sterling with interest, 
that the High Court of Judgment might preserve, undefiled, 
with even the semblance of a blot of injury done to their 
enslavers, the record that " theij should enjoy every right 
and EVERY PRIVILEGE OF FREEMEN," subject only to the re- 
striction of a term of bonded service, during a portion of 
their weekly time. Of the article for which the stipulation 
was made, and the price munificently advanced, the supposed 
purchaser has been unsuspectingly defrauded ; and the 
covenant ratified with him, has been unrighteously broken, 
while the menaces and defiances of the opressor, adding 
insult to injury, have contravened the honest sincerity of 
his purposes, and withered the fair blossoming of his 
hopes. 

Many of them prefer an especial claim to the sympathies 
of the christian community. As brethren and sisters in 



58 

" the adoption of the Spirit,"-—" the household of Heaven," 
they sigh and cry in that continued bondage which has 
deprived them of the gift of God to men created free, 
despoiled them of their natural and civil rights, robbed 
them of their hire, and plundered them of the treasure 
bought for their enrichment. The voice of the Supreme 
admonishes the defrauder, " Behold ! the hire of your 
labourers, who have reaped your fields, which is of you 
kept back by fraud, crieth ; and the cries of them which 
have reaped, are entered into the ears of the Lord God of 
Sabbaoth." That voice called forth an agency, by which 
the promise of freedom was obtained ; and, now the pledge 
is unredeemed, it again summons that agency to arise. 
To those who are influenced by principles of justice, and 
governed by the law of Christ, is the cause entrusted, as to 
the avowed and recognised conservators, not of the Negroes' 
civil liberty alone, but of their religious privileges. It is 
the cause of justice, and of mercy ; and its advocates neither 
desire, nor seek, to inflict the smallest evil on the task- 
master, but rather to free the land from a curse, — the slave 
from his fetters, — and, if possible, the oppressor from his 
doom. 

What is to be done ? The compact is broke by the very 
party who now plead the inviolability of its sanctions. They 
have cancelled its obligation, and the way is open for the 
British nation, by their representatives and government, to 
advance and perform the duty imperatively devolving upon 
them. Experience has proved that no modification of 
slavery, under a milder name, can change its essence, — 
mitigate its rigor, — curb its violence, — or cripple its might. 
Experience has also demonstrated, that its prompt and 
utter destruction is attended with safety, pregnant with 
hope, and succeeded with prosperity. 

Britons ! your decree is law. Senators ! your fiat is 
resistless. Illustrious and amiable Queen ! your mandate 
is invincible. It is but to determine, to declare, to com- 
mand ; and the Empire, the Legislature, and the Monarch, 
already so great among the nations, will become yet more 
exalted and majestic in proclaiming, amid the joys and 
blessings of the bond, the applauding acclamations of the 
free, and, under Heaven's approving smile, the entire, 

AND IMMEDIATE, AND UNCONDITIONAL EMANCIPATION OF 

EVERY Negro under British rule. 



69 



APPENDIX, 



The following Order in Council was issued on the 12th 
of July, 1837, by which the Demerara Colonists obtained 
the right of importing into British Guiana any number of 
" Hill Coolies," from the East Indies, they might desire to 
obtain : — 

"The Queen's most excellent Majesty in Council: — 

" Whereas, by a certain order of His late Majesty, King^ 
William the Fourth, made with the advice of his Privy Council, 
on the first day of March, 1837, it is amongst other things 
ordered. That no person who hath been, or who shall be, bound 
to any other person for the performance, in British Guiana, of any 
agricultural, manufacturing, handicraft, or other description of 
labour or service whatsoever, by any indenture of apprenticeship, 
bond of service, agreement, or other instrument, of any kind, in 
writing, shall by force and virtue of the ordinance (in the said 
order mentioned) be articled servants, tradesmen, or labourers, 
within the meaning, or for the purposes thereof, after the expi- 
ration of three years from the date of such indenture, bond, 
agreement, or instrument: — And Whereas, it is expedient to 
amend the said order in manner hereinafter mentioned : It is 
therefore ordered by Her Majesty, by and with the advice of her 
Privy Council, that no person, being a native of any place ivithin 
the East India Company's Charter, who hath been, or who shall 
be, bound to any other person for the performance, in British 
Guiana, of any agricultural, manufacturing, handicraft, or other 
description of labour or service whatsoever, by any indenture of 
apprenticeship, bond of service, agreement, or other instrument of 
any kind, in writing, shall, if such indenture, agreement, bond or 
instrument, hath been, or shall be made within the limits of the 
said Charter, become or be an articled servant, tradesman, or 



60 

labourer, by force and virtue of the ordinance of the Lieutenant- 
Governor, and Court of Policy of British Guiana, of the 22nd 
day of June, 1836, after the expiration o^ Jive years from the date 
of such indenture, bond, agreement, or instrument. — And it is 
further ordered, that every person, being a native of any place 
within the limits of the said Charter, who hath been, or who shall 
be bound by any such indenture, bond of agreement, or instru- 
ment, made within the limits aforesaid, for the performance of 
any such labour or service as aforesaid, shall, at the expiration of 
the period for which he or she shall be so bound, be entitled to be 
sent back to the port or place at ivhich such indenture, bond, agree- 
ment, or instrument hath been or shall be so made, as aforesaid, 
at the costs and charges of the person or persons whom he or she 
shall have therein bound himself or herself to serve, or the heirs, 
executors, or administrators, of such person or persons; or of the 
person or persons who at, immediately or before the expiration of 
the said term, shall be entitled to his or her services. 

" And the Right Honorable the Lord Glenelg, one of Her 
Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, is to give the necessary 
directions herein accordingly. 

(Signed) " C. Greville." 

To this Order the objection is taken, 

First — That it extends the term of three years to Jive. 

Second — That it confers the right to procure the Appren- 
tices from a given locality, without prescribing or limiting 
the means by which they are to be obtained. 

TJiird — That it contains no provision by which their 
maintenance or protection is to be regulated. 

Fourth — That the mode in which it gives them the right 
of demanding to be sent back at the end of the bonded ser- 
vitude, is so capable of evasion as to be of little or no 
service. 

In reference to this last clause, it is only necessary to 
remark, that they are required to be returned, if they desire 
it, not to the place from which they were taken — the place of 
their abode — hut to any port or place where the bond or 
instrument in writing may he executed. Practising on the 
ignorance and credulity of these ill-fated victims, the Colo- 
nial Agents may delay the signing of these documents until 
they reach the port of their disemharkation, — so that when 
the five years shall expire, they may there be turned adrift, 
instead of being conveyed to their former homes. 



61 

It is a matter of deep regret that such a permission should 
have been given under the sanction of Her Majesty's Go- 
vernment, proposed, as it is understood to have been, by a 
party who has uniformly and openly been opposed to the 
feeling of the anti-slavery community. By this concession, 
a traffic in human flesh and blood, under imj^erfect limita- 
tions, analogous to that of the odious slave trade, may be at 
once commenced, and unceasingly perpetuated. 



ERRATA. 

Page 3, margin. — For " Dated Nov. lltli, 1837," read, " Oct. 
31st, 1837." 

Page 19, margin. — For "Jamaica Act, sec. 21," read, "sec. 16." 

Page 28, margin. — For "Jamaica Act, sec. 13," read, " sec. 18." 



D. MARPLES AND CO., PRINTERS, LIVERPOOL. 



