Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/thoughtsonslaverOOwood 



THOUGHTS 



ON THE 



S L A V E R y 



OF THE 



NEGROES 



The second EDITION, 



LONDON: 

Frinted and Sold by James Phillips, 
George-Yard, Lombard-Street. 

m.dcc.lxxxv, 



[ 5 ] 



THOUGHTS 

N T H E 

SLAVERY 

OF THE 

NEGROES. 

TH E humanity of the prefent age 
has eftablifhed a great variety of 
inftitutioiis for the relief of the nume- 
rous misfortunes incident to our infirm 
nature. The fick, the lame, the blind, 
the infane -, thofe whom difeafe or acci- 
dent, united with poverty, have render- 
ed helplefs, become the objefts of com- 
paffion and affiftance to their more for- 
tunate neighbours. But, as it is an 
A 3 obferv-^ 



[ 6 ] 

obfervable charadleriftic of the human 
mind, to he more affefted by objects 
which are near, than by thofe which are 
remote, their vicinity is an important 
circumftance in the excitement and the 
application of this benevolence. The 
relation of diftant calamities, however 
terrible, of famines, of peflilence, of 
earthquakes, of countries defolated by 
war, produces indeed a temporary fym- 
pathy, but it is foon difperfed by cares 
or pleafures, which prefs for more im- 
mediate attention. Evils of fuch mag- 
nitude, it is true, are beyond the reach 
of our partial fuccour, and we may be 
excufed from the romantic attempt of 
relieving every diftrefs, in every quarter 
of the globe ; but there is one flagrant 
inftance, in which every Briton is inte- 
erfted, in which multitudes of our un- 
happy and unoffending fellow-creatures 
are expofed to fufterings that humanity 
Ihudders at, and in which relief is with- 
held, though witliin our power, becaufe 

the 



[ 7 ] 

the fcene of oppreffion is diftant, and the 
hearts of thofe who are immediately en- 
gaged in it, are hardened by the power-- 
ful influence of avarice and habit, and 
becaufe thefe very jfijfFerings are the 
fource of public revenue and private 
wealth. The fubjedl alluded to, is the 
fyftem adopted for employing the ne- 
groes in the Weft-Indian Iflands, and 
that Jgnominious traffic, called the Slav© 
Trade. 

The inftitutions of law in thofe iflands 
are calculated to deprefs this unhappy 
clafs of mankind below the rank of 
manhoodj and have accordingly efta- 
blifhed a very great difproportion between 
their offences and their punifhments. 
If a negro, from whatever provocation, 
kills a white man, he is burnt alive. 
If a white man kills a negro of his own, 
under whatever circumftances of cruelty 
and injuftice, his punifhment is conv- 
muted for a fmall fine, which yet is fel- 
A 4 dom 



C 8 J 

dom exaded. An afTauIt, amongft the 
negroes, is conftrued into rebellion, and 
rebellion is punifhed with tortures and 
death. For offences of a fainter com- 
plexion, for inattention, or negligence, 
the matter, according to Sir Hans Sloane, * 
is fatisfied with difmemberment, or fe- 
vere flagellations, with pepper and fait 
fcattered on the wounds, for the pur- 
pofe of increafing the pain. Thefe poor 
people are indeed confidered as much 
the property of the owner, as his horfe 
or his dog, but they are not fo much 
the objects of his humane attention. 
There is no controul in the laws to pre- 
vent his treating them in whatever man- 
ner he thinks fit, except indeed the fine 
above-mentioned. Nor in a country in- 
ured to fcenes of oppreflion can much 
reliance be had on its manners andprin- 
ciplesj perhaps a furer fafeguard, when 
preferved pure, to the morals of a peo- 
ple, than the ftricSeft regulations of law. 
The only refource which remains to 

defend 
* Hift. of Jamaica, 



t 9 ] 

defend the life of the negro, is the con- 
fideration that it is involved in the in-^ 
tereft of his employer; the force of 
which may indeed protect his w^retched 
exiftence till ficknefs or age render him 
incapable of labour, but allov^s none of 
thofe comforts w^hich alleviate the mi- 
feries of life. His fufFerings receive no 
mitigation from the humble hope that 
his manumiffion, though diftant, may 
at length arrive, but day after day pre- 
fents the fame dreary rotation of unre- 
warded toil, miferable food, and fevere 
whippings, inflifted often for trifling, 
and fometimes for imaginary offences. 
When this fituation is compared with 
the liberty, the eafe, and the independence 
which the Africans enjoy in their own 
country, where, according to the rela- 
tions of travellers,^ there feems to be a 
fort of exemption from the general doom 

* See Adanfon's Voyage to Senegal, and the Modern 
Univerfal Hillory. 

of 



[ lo ] 

of man to perpetual labour, and nature 
produces the fruits of the earth almoft 
fpontaneoufly, who but muft condemn 
the rough hand of power which forces 
them, or the arts of treachery which 
entice them, to leave it ! 

A fyftem of law favourable to the pro- 
teftion, the inftrudlion, and even the 
manumiffion, of the negroes, has been 
adopted in fome of the foreign iflands, 
particularly the French, where the ne- 
groes are allowed for religious inftruc* 
tion and reft from labour, not only the 
firft day of the week, but every feftival 
ufually obferved by the Romifh church* 
In others, encouragements are held out 
to induftry, by allotting to the flave 
one day in the week, befides Sunday, for 
his own ufe, and by that means furnilh- 
ing him with an opportunity of gra- 
dually purchaling his freedom by volun- 
tary labour. It is no wonder the poor 
wretches fliould be tempted to efcape, 

though 



I I' 3 

though at the hazard of fevere punifli- 
ment, to thdfe places where there is a 
certainty of milder treatment, and fome 
poffibility of recovering their liberty. 
Attempts to inftruft the Britifh flaves, 
or to mitigate their fufferings, have, on 
the contrary, generally been difcouraged 
by the narrow prejudices of the planters, 
or by the illiberal policy of the govern- 
ing powers. The improvements of rea- 
fon, and the inftrudlions of religion, 
are, indeed not without fome propriety, 
difcountenanced, as obnoxious to that 
jealoufy and pride of power w^hich al- 
ways accompany the diHindion between 
mafter and flave. 

It has however been faid, in favour 
of the flave trade, that the negroes are- 
of a race inferior in talents and doci- 
lity to the white nations, and that the 
ftubbornnefs and indolence of their tem- 
per can only be wrought upon by the 
moft rigorous treatment, of which they 

have 



[ 12 ] 

have no right to complain, fince, being 
captives of war, their flavery is the 
condition of their exiftence, and the only 
change they experience is that of mafters : 
that it is impoffible to cultivate fugar^ 
rice, and other commodities, without 
fuch affiftance, and that the fuperior 
number of negroes, in the places where 
they are kept, to the white inhabitants, 
renders the moft rigid fubjeftion necef- 
fary, as is evident from the frequency 
of infurreftions : laftly, flavery has al- 
ways been pradlifed, it is faid, amongfl 
the moft liberal and enlightened nations, 
the Greeks, the Romans, and even the 
Jews under the theocracy; a circum- 
ftance which proves the ftate of flavery 
to be not inconfiftent with the difpen- 
fations and appointments of Providence.- 

That there is, in every nation, a very 
confiderable difparity between man and 
man, in the degree, and the exertion, 
of the intellectual faculties, cannot be 

denied. 



[ 13 ] 

denied. But the inferiority which is 
attributed to the whole race of negroes 
probably arifes from that depreffion of 
mind which accompanies a flate of fla- 
very, and from the difcouragement 
thrown in the way of every liberal in- 
quiry, rather than from any original, 
intelled:ual defed:. The definition of 
ilavery, according to Cicero, is the obe- 
dience of a broken and abjed: fpirit, 
polTeffing no will of its own.* And 
Montefquieuj-f- thus delineates more par- 
ticularly its baleful effedls on the human 
mind; ** It is not good in itfelf. It is 
** neither ufeful to the mafter, nor to the 
^^ Have. Not to the flave, becaufe he 
** can do nothing from virtuous mo- 
" tives. Not to the mafter, becaufe he 
'* contrads among his Haves all forts of 
^* bad habits, and accuftoms himfelf to 
** the negledt of all the moral virtues. 
*^ He becomes haughty, paffionate, ob- 

* Par. 5.1. t De I'Efprit des Loix. 1. xv. ?. i. 

*^ durate. 



[ H ] 

** durate, vindidive, voluptuous, and 
*' cruel." And, with refpeft to this 
particular fpecies of flavery, he proceeds 
to fay, ** It is impoffible to allow that 
** the negroes are men, becaufe if we 
'^ allow them to be men, it will begin 
** to be believed, that we ourfelves are 
** not Chriftians.'' It cannot be ex- 
pedted that, in their low ftate of civi- 
lization, the Africans can have arrived 
at any great attainment in the arts -, 
but the letters of Ignatius Sancho, and 
the Poems of Phillis Wheatly, fuffici- 
ently prove that they are neither defici- 
ent in the feelings of humanity, nor the 
powers of the underftanding. Adanfon, 
in his Voyage to Senegal, relates that 
the negroes are well acquainted with 
moft of the planets, and that with pro- 
per inftruments they might become good 
aftronomers.* And Bofman, Brue, Bar- 
bot^ and Holben, who had all been re- 

fidents 



[ IS ] 

ildents in the country, bear ample tef- 
timony to the ingenuity of thefe unhappy 
people in the mechanical arts, and to 
their capacity for the adminid ration of 
civil government.^ 

Even granting the inferiority contend- 
ed for, they cannot be denied to be men^ 
and the inhumanity of treating them 
worfe than brutes, can derive no juftifi- 
cation from thence. The probable means 
of removing their ignorance one would 
naturally fuppofe to be patient and gen- 
tle inftrudion, adminiflered gradually as 
their unenlightened minds are capable of 
receiving it. But the violence with 
which they are feparated from their na- 
tive country, and the rigid difcipline 
of the whip, muft as naturally tend to 
create an averfion to the xlocftrines of 
thofe who adopt fuch modes of com- 

* Mod. Univ. Hillo B. xvii, Ch» 7. — Benezet on the 
Slave Tradco 

municating 



[ i6 ] 

municating them. If they are Allien 
and intraftable to labour, it wouM not 
be amifs if the mafter was ferioufly to 
confider from what principle he claims 
a title to compel them. Purchafe tranf- 
fers no title but that which the feller 
poffefled, n^Lvncly power , If indeed power 
always implies right, the Europeans 
may, with a fafe confcience, opprefs 
and deftroy the negroes at pleafure. Ty- 
ranny and cruelty have, in all times, 
fought to palliate their condud: by re- 
criminatory charges of obftinacy, con-^ 
fpiracies, and rebellion. There is no 
proof that the negroes would not be 
equally tradable with the whites, under 
a mild and generous treatment. Indo- 
lence and ftubbornnefs are the natural 
confequence of hopelefs poverty and ill 
ufage. 

That the produce of the Weft-Indian 
Iflands cannot be attained, like that of 
other countries, by the efforts of vo- 
luntary 



[ 17 3 

luntary fervitude, it will be difficult to 
prove. Other countries are fituated in 
the fame climates, but the fame degree 
of domeftic tyranny exifts no where, ex- 
cept in America, in fome parts of which 
fteps are now taking towards the abo- 
lition of it. The degree of h^at which 
makes labour irkfome, frequently lefTens 
the neceffity of it by a luxurious vege- 
tation, and the hope of reward is a 
ftronger incentive to induftry, than the 
dread of punilhment. The working of 
mines was formerly thought to be fit 
employment only for flaves or criminals, 
yet, with proper encouragement, moft 
of them, at leaft in Europe, are now 
chearfully and advantageoully wrought 
by hired labourers. *' There is no la- 
*' hour,'' fays an author before cited, 
" fo painful, that it cannot be propor- 
*^ tioned to the ftrength of the work* 
** man, provided that reafon, not ava- 
*^ rice, be the rule. The application 
** of mechanical inventions may, in 
B ^* many 



[ i8 ] 

** many inftances, fupply the place of 
** fervile labour. There is not perhaps 
** a climate on the earth, where free- 
** men may not be engaged to work. 
** Becaufe laws were bad, men were 
*^ found to be idle; becaufe they are 
*^ idle, they are put in a ftate of fla- 
** very.''* The expence of cultivation 
might poflibly be fomewhat increafed 
by procuring free labourers inftead of 
flaves, though even that is doubtful ; 
but what is the price, or indeed the 
exiftence, of the articles cultivated by 
flaves, in comparifon with the mifery 
and oppreffion by which they are pro- 
duced ? The objeftion, from motives of 
commercial policy, amounts to this, that 
the claims of religion and morality ought 
to be fubfervient to thofe of avarice and 
luxury, and that it is better thoufands of 
poor unoffending people fhould be de- 
graded and deflroyed in the moft abjedt 

♦- Montefquieu de I'Efprit des Loix, 1. xv. ch. 8. 

flavery. 



[ 19 3 

flavcry, than that the inhabitants of 
Europe fhould pay a higher price for 
their rum, rice, and fugar. 

Slavery, amongft the ancients, may be 
traced to three original fources. 

Firft, Debtors who fold themfelves to 
their creditors : the injuftice of which 
need not be expatiated upon ; for as the 
flave is allowed to poffefs no property, 
it is plain he can receive no equivalent 
for the furrender of his life and his li- 
berty, both which are held to be in the 
mailer's difpofal. 

Secondly, Captives taken in war : the 
iniquity of which is equally evident, 
when it is conlidered, that the right 
over a vanquiihed enemy extends only 
to ieftraining him from committing fu- 
ture injuries, and not to any kind of 
punifhment, 

B 2 Thirdly, 



[ 20 ] 

Thirdly, Birth : which depending on 
one of the other fources, can claim no 
principle of juftification but what they 
poflefs, nor even fo much, as the inno- 
cent children can neither be confidered 
as debtors nor enemies. 

The hiftory of the Africans prefents 
us with an additional fource, a difgrace- 
ful commerce, in which the flaves are 
bought at a public mart, flowed toge- 
ther as the common cargo of the veffel, 
without regard to decency, cleanlinefs, 
or health, and cafl: over-board in cafe 
of fhort allowance or danger, without 
reluftance or pity. For the fupport of 
this commerce, recourfe is frequently 
had to violence, or fraud, and it is an 
indifputable fadl, that, befides the temp- 
tation which a conflant market for flaves 
holds out to the avarice, or the intem- 
perance of the natives, arts have fre- 
quently been pracftifed to foment wars 
among them. We find no inftance 

among 



[ 21 ] 

among the ancient Heathens, of fuch a 
traffic with their captives, nor of that 
fyftematic oppreffion with which the 
negroes are treated at this day by pro- 
fefled Chriftians. Slavery amongft the 
Greeks and Romans was frequently mi- 
tigated to fervitude; and amongft the 
Jews, a people to whom, for the hard- 
nefs of their hearts, we are told, '* Sta- 
^^ tutes were given, which were not 
" good,"^ it was either limited in dura^ 
tion, or confented to by the parties 
themfelves ; except with refped: to the 
Heathens around themj-f whom they 
were commiffioned, by an exprefs com- 
mand which no other nation can affume 
as a precedent, not only to enflave, but 
in many inftances utterly to extirpate 
and deftroy. Yet to do juftly, and to love 
mercy, are precepts delivered under the 
Jewifli difpenfation ; and, in the imme- 
diate adminiftration of the theocracy, 

* Ezek. XX. 25. t Lev. xxv. 44. 

B 3 we 



[ 22 ] 

we find no fubjed more fruitful of com- 
plaint and chaftifement, than the op- 
preffion of the poor and the flaves. 
Amongft the Romans, the flaves were 
indulged with fome property of their 
own, the reward of their induftry and 
good behaviour, which was diftinguifli- 
ed by the name oi peculiumy a laudable 
pracftice, which the French alfo have 
imitated in their own iflands, as has 
been mentioned. In the Englifh iflands, 
the laws, fo far from allowing them a pe- 
culium, afford them no protection from 
the mofl atrocious injuries. That death 
to which as captives of war they might, 
however unjuflly, be doomed, is furely 
ill exchanged for a life of fuch degra- 
dation and pain. At all events, if the 
principles and progrefs of flavery be 
founded in injuftice, no fanftion of 
antiquity can warrant its continuance. 

However incumbent it be on the in- 
dividuals concerned in this fpecies of 
property to fatisfy the demands of rea- 

foi^ 



[ n ] 

fon and confcience by relinquifhing it, 
experience has taught, that It is too 
deeply entangled with motives of inte- 
reft and habits of power to be volun- 
tarily abandoned, at leaft in any general 
line. The fenfe of what is right, too 
frequently requires the falutary affiftance 
of law to overcome the temptation to 
perfevere in what is known to be wrong. 
The alteration and gradual fubverfion 
of this fyftem, can only be hoped for 
from the interpofition of the Britifli le- 
giflature, which would, in this inftance, 
be granted with peculiar propriety, be- 
caufe the revenue of the government, 
the profits of the merchants, and the 
luxury of the people, have involved the 
whole nation as participes criminis : and 
the burthen of reftoring to the Africans 
their alienated rights ihould not prefs 
too partially on the planters, who 
adopted, not introduced, this iniquitous 
traffick, and have purfued it under the 
patronage of Britain, but fhould be 
B 4 borne 



[ 24 1 

borne by all who (hare in its advantages. 
The firft meafure which prefents itfelf 
to the wifh of humanity, feems to be 
the abfolute prohibition of all importa- 
tions of Haves into any part of the Bri- 
tifh dominions. The emancipation of 
thofe already in flavery, and the means 
of. procuring fupplies of freemen, will 
claim, no doubt, the matureft delibera- 
tion of wife and experienced men. Per- 
haps it may not be impradlicable to hire 
the negroes fairly in their own country, 
embark them with their own confent, 
and allow them to return, in a limited 
time, if they chofe it : perhaps, by en- 
couragement of population, to which 
flavery has always proved an invincible 
obftacle,* a fucceffion of the prefcnt 

race 

* ^' The remains that are found of flavery in the 
** American colonies, and among fome European na- 
^* tions, would never furely create a defire of rendering 
^' it more univerfal. The little humanity commonly 
^* obferved in perfons, accuflomed from their infancy to 

" exercifi? 



. [ 25 ] 

race in the iflands might be continued 
as free fervants : or perhaps a fupply of 
voluntary labourers niay be procured 
from other nations. 

" exercife fo great an authority over their fellow^ 
" creatures, and to trample upon human nature, were 
^' fufficient alone to difgull; us with that authorityo 
"' Nor can a more probable reafon be given for the fe- 
'' vere, I might fay, barbarous manners of ancient 
*' times, than the pradice of domeilick flavery; by 
*' which every man of rank was rendered a petty ty- 
*' rant, and educated amidft the flattery, fubmiifion, 

" and low debafement of his flaves." " If London 

*' at prefent, without increafmg, needs a yearly recruit 
*' from the country of five thoufand people, as is com- 
" monly computed, what muft it require if the greateft 
'* part of the tradefmen and common people were 
" flaves, and were hindered from breeding by their 
" avaricious matters ?"— *' All I pretend to infer from 
" thefe reafonings is, that flavery is in general difad- 
'' vantageous, both to the happinefs and populoufnefs 
" of mankind; and that its place is much better fup- 
*' plied by the praftice of hired fervants." Hume, 
Efl". on the Pop. of Anc. Nat. 

The fame author cites Xenophon, Demofi:henes, and 
Plautus, in proof that the Athenians treatment of 
their flaves was extremely gentle and indulgent, 

There 



[ 26 ] 

There may be fome well-difpofed 
minds who think that if the flaves were 
better treated, and properly inftrucfted in 
the Chriftian religion, their condition 
might give them an opportunity, not 
afforded in their own country, of learn- 
ing the truths of the gofpel, of quitting 
the idolatry of their anceftors, and of 
making their temporal toil conduce to 
their eternal happinefs. Thus Louis XIII. 
who eftabliihed this worft fpecies of ty- 
ranny in the French colonies, after a con- 
flift between his humanity and his fuper- 
fl:ition,iirued at length the fatal edid:, be- 
caufe he was told it was the fureft way of 
converting the Africans/^ Itmuftbecon- 
feffed, to the difgrace of the EngliCh na- 
tion and the Proteftant profeffion, that re- 
ligious inftrudtion has been more attended 
to in the Popilh colonies than in the En- 
glifli, where, indeed, attempts of that 
kind have not merely been neglefted, but 

♦ Labat, as cited by Montefquieu, De I'Efp. des 
Loix^ 1. XV, c. 4. 

have 



[ 27 ] 

have been obftrufted. It cannot, how- 
ever, be admitted that even fuch a plan, 
condufted vi^ith zeal and liberality, 
though laudable in itfelf, would recon- 
cile the negro-trade with the principles 
of humanity. The end cannot juftify 
the means. It never was intended that 
the gofpel of peace iliould be propagated 
by the violation of every tender connec- 
tion, by compulfion, and by fraud. 

Another plea for the regulation, ra- 
ther than the abolition, of the flave- 
trade, will probably be adduced from 
the delire of preferying an extenfive 
commerce, and frorri the relation of 
certain travellers and miffionaries, who 
reprefent the fecundity of the women, 
and the defect of natural affedlion 
amongft the Africans to be fuch, that a 
father will frequently exchange a fon 
or a daughter for a cow, a piece of 
(ploth, or even a bottle of wine or bran- 
dy; and that their quarrels amongft 

themfelves 



[ 28 ] 

themfelves are frequent, and carried on 
with the greateft animofity^ the pri-^ 
foners on both fides being branded as 
flaves, and fold, if not to Europeans, 
to other nations of the African race : 
from which it is inferred, that if pro- 
tedion, inftrucftion, and moderate ufage 
were afforded them, if all ftratagems to 
inveigle were ftriftly prohibited, if the 
commerce were reftrained to thofe only 
who are previoufly, and de faBo, flaves, 
and if a limitation were made of the 
number to be carried in one fhip, no 
injury would be done them, the Weft 
Indian commerce would be preferved, 
and the exchange might be mutually 
beneficial to the planters and the flaves. 

The infuperable objedion to this plea, 
without excepting againft the authenti- 
city of thefe accounts, is, that it is 
taking advantage of another's wrong. 
If flaves are unjuftly reduced to that 
condition by the contingencies of war, 

or 



[ 29 ] 

or the unnatural caprice of a parent, 
(which, if it exifts, is probably owing 
to the polygamy and promifcuous con- 
cubinage of the negroes) no fubfequent 
purchafe can convert the wrong into 
right ; as the receiver of ftolen goods, 
knowing them to be fo, is equally cul- 

' pable with the thief. No right exifts, 
as has been (hewn, to alienate from an- 
other his liberty, fo as to fell him for a 
flave, and therefore every purchafe of a 
Have is in contradidion to the original 
inherent rights of mankind. Belides 
the injuftice of the principle, which 
muft be retained under every modifica- 
tion of it, the impradlicability of fuch 
reftricftions is obvious. No impartial 
jurifdidlion refides, or can refide, in the 
country, to difcriminate thofe who are 
already flaves according to the cuftom 
of the country, from thofe who are not 
fo, or from others, who are led into cap- 
tivity for the purpofe of fupplying the 
European markets 3 and every one knows 

that 



[ 3° ] 

that when intereft and power are com- 
bined againfl: the mere confcioufnefs of 
right, the former generally prevaiL 

I omit the conlideration of criminals 
who have forfeited their lives or liber- 
ties. The pofterity of fuch, not in- 
curring the guilt of their parents, can- 
not juftly be fubjeded to the fame pu- 
nifliment; and, of themfelves, their 
number muft be too few to anfwer the 
purpofe of the trader or the planter. 

If it be afked, why a fyftem, which 
has been eftabliflied and encouraged for 
near a century, (hould now be attacked i 
or why thisy of the many oppreffions 
under which human nature groans, 
fhould be iingled out for complaint ; the 
anfwer may be given in the words of the 
Preacher, ** Whatfoever thy hand jindeth 
*^ to doy do it with thy might." The 
time of the oldeft, and the abilities of 
the wifeft men, are too little to remedy 

all 



[ 31 J 

all the defefts of political government, 
or to repel the incurlions of vice, iri 
the various fhapes it may affume^ but, 
to relieve the miferable, and to do good 
to all men, are plain and pradical pre- 
cepts of humanity, vi^hich fall within 
the line of every man's duty, w^henever 
an opportunity offers of fulfilling them. 
And it muft entirely obviate this objec- 
tion to remark, that if antiquity of 
fyftem could juftify error and oppreffion ^ 
or if it were an eftablifhed principle, 
that no evils were to be remedied, be- 
caufe all could not, the reformed reli- 
gion would not now fubfift, nor would 
the inquifitions have been aboliihed. 

A candid inquiry into this fubjedl 
muft furely terminate in a call upon 
thofe who are invefted with the power 
of redrefs, for the gradual indeed, but 
total abolition of fl a very, in every part 
of the Britifh dominions ; and, till that 
be accompliihed, for fome authoritative 

aft. 



[ 32 ] 

aft, to render the prefent fituation of the 
ilaves more tolerable, to allow them 
fome profit from the fweat of their 
brow, to provide fome mode of inftruft- 
ing them in ufeful truths, and rigidly, to 
prohibit the importation of more. 



POST 



[ 33 ] 



POSTSCRIPT. 



THIS pamphlet has been honour- 
ed with the *^ Remarks" of an 
anonymous writer, who, under the er- 
roneous fuppofition that it was written 
by James Ramsay, fcatters his trea- 
fures of indignation and wrath with no 
fparing hand. That Reverend Prelate ^ 
as this writer calls him, had no concern 
whatever in the prefent publication j but 
his 'EJfay on the Treatment and Converjion 
of African Slaves in the Britijh Sugar 
Colonies, was advertifed by the printer on 
the cover of it, which probably caufed 
the miftake. When the *' Remarks " 
are divefted of a certain afperity of lan- 
guage, which favours ftrongly of perfo- 
nal animofity, the difference between us 
is rather in the premifes, than in the 
conclufion. No ifland was particulari- 
sed in the '' Thoughts/' The inten* 
C tioa 



[ 34 3 

tlon was no other than to give a fum- 
mary view of the complexion of the 
laws and cuftoms in thofe countries 
where flaves are kept. The Remarker 
confines his animadverfions to the ifland 
of St. Kitts, where he fays the law al- 
lows only thirty-nine lailies to be in- 
flifted by any mafter, but he confeffes 
this reftridtion is not always obferved. 
Negroes condemned to be burnt alive, 
he aflerts, are previoufly ftrangled. He 
contends that the humanity of indivi- 
duals has, in many inftances, mitigated 
the rigour of the laws ; a pofition which 
never was denied. There are, no doubt, 
amongft the planters, thofe whofe hu-- 
jnanity has a better guide than the letter 
of the law. Every friend to mankind 
will wifh that fuch inftances may in- 
creafe 5 but it is certainly a ftrong rea- 
fon for the repeal of thofe laws, that 
they are too criiel to be put in force. 
He denies that in St. Kitts, the puniih- 
rnent of a mafter, for the murder of his 
negro-flave, is commuted for a fmall 

fine. 



[ 35 ] 

fine. St. Kitts was not mentioned; but 
the 329th ad of the ifland of Barbadoes, 
as quoted by Granville Sharp, in 
his ^' Reprefentation of the injuftice of 
*' tolerating flavery,'* contains a claufe 
to this effedi *' If any man fhall, of 
*^ wantonnefs, or only of bloody-mind- 
** ednefs, or cruel intention^ wilfully 
«^ kill a negro, or other flave of his own^ 
'' he fhall pay into the public treafury^ 
« ' fifteen poimds fterling, " The Remark- 
er proceeds to ftate a new, and indeed 
very extraordinary account of flavery, as 
it exifts (according to his defcription) iri 
the ifland of St. Kitts, of which the fol- 
lowing is an abilirad;. The negroes in St. 
Kitts are allowed, he fays, not indeed by 
the law, but by the generofity of their 
mafters, a peculium of their own, a- 
mounting fometimes to two or three acres 
of land ', for the cultivation of which, 
when necejfary, and when aiked, another 
day, befides Sunday, is given them* This 
peculium is hereditary, and defcends to 
C 2 their 



[ 36 ] 

their children : (It feems a little extra- 
ordinary, by the bye, that an eftate fliould 
be hereditary, which is fecured by no 
law^) a labourer is alfo provided for 
the infirm, and even to the able-bodied, 
another flave is affigned to attend him 
to market, and aid the difpofal of his 
little property, the income of which is 
clear gain. His labour is invariably 
crowned with wealth. One crop excites 
to another. He gets hogs, goats, and 
poultry, and lives in a ftate of comfort- 
able eafe. He hires other flaves, indul- 
ges the pleafures of fociety, and regales 
his friends with the repafls of the table, 
and a bowl of punch. Nor is this all j 
the negroes have their dances and aflem- 
blies. They wear filk coats, waiftcoats, 
and {lockings. If they are in want of 
a houfe, their mafter eredts it. If they 
are fick, they are attended by a dodtor, 
nourilhed with broth and meats of kid 
or chicken, and their fpirits are enliven- 
ed by the moderate ufe of wine. The 

taflc 



[ 37 ] 

tafk of the negro is proportioned to his 
ftrength. When paft labour he is al- 
lowed a child, in general of his own 
family, to adminifter to his neceffities. 
He is frequently fupplied with provi- 
lions from his mafter^s table, and fmall 
gifts of rum chear the night of life/ 
He feems moreover to be releafed from 
the fatigue of attending religious in- 
ftrudlioD, which, in the opinion of this 
writer, ** tends not to benefit his pre- 
'' fent or future ftate." All thefe ad- 
vantages, according to the Remarker, a- 
wait the induflrious negro in the iiland 
of St, Kitts, and well may he contraft 
them with the famine, the hunger, and 
the penury, which vice and idlenefs pro- 
duce in this metropolis. This is put- 
ting the genius of flavery in a new drefs 
with a witnefs. Thus bedizened out 
in filks and fattins, we no longer recog- 
nize the tattered miferable figure, which 
fo lately excited our compaffion, bowed 
under the yoke, and groaning under the 

lafh 



C 38 ] 

kill of the tafk-mafter. But all is not 
gold that glitters. This whited fepul- 
chre (if a text may be again quoted 
without offence to the Remarker) how- 
ever fair withoutj may contain nothing 
within but dead niens bones, James 
Ramsay, whofe authority will have 
weight with thofe who know him, has 
written a defcription of the treatment of 
the negroes in this ifland among others, 
but it is exceedingly different from the 
account which has jufl been recited.* 
Indeed if this latter be any thing more 
than a few felefted inflances of favourite 
negroes, and the colony be really in fuch 
a ftate of improvement, and fo well dif- 
pofed to acknowledge the rights of na-^ 
ture, it may juftly be hoped that the in- 
habitants will advance a flep or two far- 
ther, abolifh the laws which authorife 

* Benezet's Traft, entitled. Some Hijforical Ac- 
count of Guinea^ contains a cloud of evidence refpeft-^ 
ing the modes of procuring, and treating the negro 
flaves. 

flavery. 



[ 39 ] 

flavery, and declare their negroes free. 
Nor can this be attended with any dif- 
advantage to the planters, for, with fuch 
temptations of prefent gain, and future 
eafe, there can be no want of free labour- 
ers, who might rather be expeded to 
croud thither from all quarters of the 
o-lobe. Notwithftanding, however, the 
paradifiacal ftate of this ifland of St, 
Kitts, the Remarker is convinced, that 
<^ Wherever the greateft part is held un- 
<* der the defpotic fway of the lefs nu- 
^« merous, a wide road is open to feve- 
<* rity." And thus we arrive, though 
by routs fomewhat different, at the fame 
conclufion, that fuch power cannot fafely 
be trujied to the difcretion of individuals^ 
and that favery ought to he abolifjed. 

It was not known to the writer of this 
little piece, till after it had been printed, 
that John Wesley had fome years ago 
publifhed his fentiments on this fubjedj^ 
nearly under the fame title. 
FINIS. 



Lately publijhed by James 'Phillips. 

ESSAY on the Treatment and Conver- 
sion of AFRICAN SLAVES in the British 
Sugar Colonies. By the Rev. J. Ramsay, 
Vicar of Teflon in Kent, who refiaed nnany 
Years in the Weft-Indies. In One Volume, 
Odtavo. Price 5s bound, or 4s in Boards. 

An INQUIRY into the Effeds of putting 
a ftop to the African Slave Trade, and of 
granting Liberty to the Slaves in the Britifh 
Sugar Colonies. By J. Ramsay. Price 6d. 

The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the 
Oppreffed Africans, refpe6tfully recommend- 
ed to the ferious Confideration of the Legifla- 
ture of Great-Britain, by the People called 
Quakers. Price 2d. 

A SERIOUS ADDRESS to the Rulers of 
America, on the Inconfiftency of their Con- 
dudt refpe6ling Slavery : Forming a Contraft 
between the Encroachments of England ori 
American Liberty, and American Injuftice in 
tolerating Slavery. Price 3d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and 
her Colonies, in a fhort Reprefentation of 
the calamitous State of the endaved Negroes 
in the Britifh Dominions, By Anthony 
Benezet. Price 6d, 

A Defcription of Guinea, its Situation, 
Produce, and the general Difpofition of its 
Inhabitants \ with an Inquiry into the Rife 
and Progrefs of the Slave Trade, &c. By 
Anthony Benezet. Bound 2s. 6d. 



