7 



ADDRESSED 



CITIZENS OF ILLINOIS, 



PROPOSED INTRODUCTION OF 



SLAVERY. 



tei.WbF-fr no,7 



Fellow-Citizens, 

IF the decision of a question, in which the cha- 
racter and happiness of a whole nation are involved, 
should receive dispassionate and careful investiga- 
tion, you will be disposed to accord to the following 
remarks, on the proposed introduction of Slavery, 
patient and serious attention. I shall address you 
the more freely on this important proposition, from 
the full persuasion that it has originated among a 
small and interested class of citizens, with a view to 
their own temporary advantage, without regard to 
those horrible consequences which its adoption would 
inevitably entail upon the whole community. To 
spread these evils before the reflecting part of the 
inhabitants of Illinois, is the object of the present 
observations; for I am satisfied that enlightened 
public virtue is an invincible rampart against the 
arts of selfish and designing men. 

It has been a source of regret and astonishment, 
that, when the christian world has so universally re- 
probated Slavery, there should be found a sufficient 
number of individuals in a christian community, to 
render it probable that this deadly contagion may be 
spread among a free and happy people, who have 
been so long preserved from its contaminating in- 
B 



iiuence. Have these men considered the noble max- 
im of the religion they profess, " Whatsoever ye 
would that men should do unto you, do ye even so 
unto them.'* They cannot surely have applied this 
pure touchstone to the principles they advocate, when 
they seriously consider their operation either upon 
their free fellow-citizens, or upon the miserable be- 
ings whom they would ruthlessly doom to bondage. 
Well might the eloquent Patrick Henry exclaim, 
that he "thought it amazing that in a most enligh- 
tened age, in a country above all others fond of 
liberty — and among a people possessing a religion 
the most humane and generous, a principle so re- 
pugnant to humanitv, as Slavery, should be adopt- 
ed." 

Nor does Slavery vary more from the pure prin- 
ciples of Christianity, than from the great and essen- 
tial doctrines of the declaration of rights, adopted by 
the authors of our National Independence, July 4, 
1776. The observation that " negroes are men," is 
not the less true because it has been frequently re- 
peated : and that basis of our liberty declares it to 
be self evident " that allmenare created equal; that 
they are endowed by their Creator with certain un- 
alienable rights ; that among these are life, Liber- 
ty and the pursuit of happiness." It is true that 
the wise and patriotic founders of our liberty, finding 
Slavery and all its attendant evils deeply engrafted 
upon the institutions of the country, were compelled 
tacitly to sanction the unholy practice. But while 
they lamented and condemned the hateful and mista- 
ken policy of the government which had permitted 
this disease to prey upon the vitals of the land they 
loved, they had the consolation of anticipating a pe- 
riod, when, through the progress ef enlightened rea- 
son, and just views of the rights of man, this pesti- 
lence would be arrested. 



It was under the impression of this animating 
opinion, that the free and penetrating Patrick Henry- 
believed "that a time would come, when an oppor- 
tunity will be offered to abolish this lamentable 
evil." It was this confident reliance on the virtue 
of his countrymen, that induced the author of the 
Declaration of Independence to say "that the way 
I hope is preparing, under the auspices of HeaVen for 
a total emancipation ; and that this is disposed in 
the order of events to be with the consent of masters, 
rather than by their extirpation." But it is need- 
less to multiply quotations upon this interesting sub- 
ject, since it is well known that the continuance of 
Slavery in the United States after the revolution, 
was the result of a political and perhaps necessary 
compromise, in order to induce the slave-holding 
states to unite in the Federal compact. 

Let me not be understood as reflecting either upon 
the understanding, or the moral principles of the 
citizens of the Slave-holding states, by this asser- 
tion. This would be an injustice which is amply 
contradicted by the Colonial History, by the asser- 
tions of their most enlightened patriots, and by the 
public documents of the eventful period to which I 
refer. I have already said that Slavery was a curse 
implanted in the bosom of America by the selfish and 
cruel policy of Great Britain, previous to that glo- 
rious era which released us from the bondage of her 
government. No stronger evidence could be offered 
of this fact, and of the just sense which was enter- 
tained of the evils and dangers of Slavery, than the 
following extract from a petition to the crown, by 
the House of Burgesses of Virginia, April 1, 1772. 
Repeated application had been made to the King and 
Council of Great Britain, for permission to enact 
laws which would have a tendency to decrease the 
importation of negroes into that ill-fated colony ; but 
they were without effect. And it is a remarkable 



fact, that " this inhuman use of the royal negative,'* 
in refusing permission to exclude Slaves from that 
colony, is mentioned in the first clause of their con- 
stitution, among the reasons for separating from 
Great Britain. 

" The importation of Slaves into the colony," say 
the petitioners, ** hath long been considered as a 
trade of great inhumanity, and under its present en- 
couragement, we have too much reason to fear will 
endanger the very existence of your Majesty's Amer- 
ican dominions. 

46 We are sensible that some of your Majesty's 
subjects in Great Britain, may reap emoluments from 
this cruel traffic, but when we consider that it greatly 
retards the settlement of the Colonies with more useful 
inhabitants, and may in time have the most destruc- 
tive influence, we presume to hope that the interest 
of & few will be disregarded when placed in compe- 
tition with the security and happiness of such numbers 
of your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects. 

" Deeply impressed with these sentiments we most 
humbly beseech your Majesty, to remove all those 
restraints on your Majesty's Governors of this colo- 
ny, which inhibit their assent to such laws as might 
check so very pernicious a commerce." [Journal of 
the House of Burgesses, page 131.] 

The sentiments thus strongly enforced by the Vir- 
ginian Burgesses, have been amply corroborated by 
enlightened citizens of the southern states since the 
revolution. Mr. Read, of Georgia, in the debate on 
the Missouri question, plainly inculcates the same 
doctrine. " Slavery" says he, " is an unnatural 
state, a dark cloud, which obscures half the lustre of 
our free institutions. The Slave-holding states have 
not brought this calamity upon themselves. It was 
entailed upon them by the mother country, notwith- 
standing the most earnest expostulations and eiu 
treaties, I would hail that day as the most glorious 



iii its dawning, which would behold, with safety to 
themselves and our citizens, the black population of 
the United States, placed upon the high eminence of 
equal rights." 

In every country, both of the old and the new world, 
the human .mind is casting off the shackles of igno- 
rance and superstition, and exerting its energies for 
the establishment of universal freedom and equality. 
The rising Republic of Colombia, has abolished 
Slavery in the dawn of her political existence. De- 
spotic Alexander, of Russia, is promoting the eman- 
cipation of the white slaves in his dominions, and 
aristocratic England is preparing to loose the fetters 
of the black population on her .West India planta- 
tions. Many of the states in our own happy Union 
have expunged the name of Slavery from their 
statute books ; and an enlightened Slave-holder, Mr. 
Hardin, of Kentucky, has lately asserted on the 
floor of our National Legislature, that " there would 
be great propriety in reprobating Slavery, if they 
were the authors of it, or could get clear of it." But 
with all this light before our eyes, and the march of 
the whole human race toward improvement within 
our knowledge, what will our future legislators and 
historians be able to reply, should the loathsome blot 
of Slavery be pointed out to them upon the charter 
of our liberties, affixed there by ourselves, and that 
voluntarily , and in the full meridian of correct infor- 
mation. 

What are the golden expectations — what are the 
mighty advantages which the advocates of this nefa- 
rious system have offered, to compensate us for the 
sacrifice of our present peace and security, and the 
welfare of our posterity. I address you as men, 
sound in understanding, capable in judgment, and 
possessing, or willing to acquire sufficient informa- 
tion to direct you on this important decision. Com- 
pare for yourselves the situation of the free with 
Bb 



Slave-holding states, in general wealth, population, 
and increasing influence in the Union. A single 
fact speaks volumes upon this subject. From the 
census in 1810 to that of 1820, the gain of represen- 
tation in Congress, in the free states, was double to 
that of the Slave states for the same period* The 
ratio of improvement, in wealth and general infor- 
mation, has been considerably greater in the free 
than in the Slave-holding states. 

Impressed with a full conviction of the impolicy 
and barbarity of holding men in bondage, Governor 
Randolph, of Virginia, in 1820, addressed the legis- 
lature of that state in the following impressive lan- 
guage: "The deplorable error of our ancestors, 
in copying a civil institution from saVUge Africa, 
lias affixed upon their posterity a depressing bur- 
then, which nothing but the extraordinary benefit 
conferred, and great energy infused by our happy cli- 
mate, could have enabled us to support." After elo- 
quently depicting the contemptible insufficiency of en- 
slaved labourers, and their unfitness for arts, com- 
merce, and improved agriculture, he says, 6i we have 
been far outstripped in the pursuits of civilized man, 
by states to whom nature has been far less bountiful; 
so that it is painful to consider what might have been, 
under other circumstances, the amount of general 
wealth in Virginia, or the whole sum of comfortable 
subsistence and happiness possessed by all her in- 
habitants." 

The statesman and patriot of Illinois will depre- 
cate these consequences ; but there arc others of a 
still more serious and alarming nature, which will 
come home to the bosom of every parent, and every 
citizen, in the community, however disengaged from 
the turmoil of political contention, his inclination or 
individual circumstances, ma} r hitherto have detained 
him. The state of Illinois will not only lose, by the 
adoption of this measure., that high station in the 



Union, to which her fertile soil and local advantages 
entitle her — she will not only forfeit the dignity of 
conscious virtue, and become degraded by unrigh- 
teousness ; but the very object for which she makes 
these sacrifices, will prove a viper that will sting 
her children to the heart 

Slavery creates an aristocracy of the worst spe- 
cies. The free-born farmers of the state would find 
themselves regarded as an inferior class by the 
lordly planter. The little monarch of an hundred 
trembling slaves, could not degrade himself by min- 
gling in society with the man who ministered to his 
own necessities. In another generation our children 
will contract the obsequious look of vassals, anxious 
to catch the great man's smile. 

But this is not all. — The curse pursues this iniqui- 
tous practice into the most minute ramifications of 
society. Some of us may probably become extensive 
planters, and kindly permit our fellow -citizens to 
manage our plantations. Suffer me to offer to your 
attention the remarks of a Virginian Slave-holder, 
upon the domestic consequences of Slavery upon the 
morals of our children. " There must be doubtless," 
says the venerable Jefferson, " an unhappy influence 
on the manners of our people, produced by the ex- 
istence of Slavery among us. The whole commerce 
between master and slave, is a perpetual exercise of 
the most boisterous passions — the most unremitting 
despotism on the one part, and the most degrading 
submission on the other. Our children see this and 
learn to imitate it. The parent storms — the child 
looks on, catches the lineaments of wrath — puts on 
the same airs in a circle of smaller slaves — gives a 
loose to the worst of passions, and thus nursed, edu- 
cated and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot but be 
stamped by it, with odious peculiarities. The man 
must be a prodigy indeed, who can retain his man- 
ners and morals undepraved by such circumstances." 



1G 

Wfoat parent can contemplate this horrible picture, 
and not enquire with the indignant writer, M with 
what execration should the statesman be loaded, who, 
permitting the one half of the citizens thus to tram- 
ple on the rights of the other, transforms these into 
despots and those into enemies ; destroys the morals 
of the one part, and the amor patriae of the other." 
He then continues to point out the evils of Slavery, 
by remarking that "with the morals of the people, 
their industry also is destroyed. For in a warm 
climate, (he might have said in any climate), no 
one will labour for himself, who can make another 
labour for him. This is so true, that, of the pro- 
prietors of Slaves, a very few indeed are ever seen 
to labour. And can the liberties of a nation be 
thought secure, when we have removed their only 
firm basis — a conviction in the minds of the people 
that these liberties are of the gift of God! — That 
they are not to be violated but with his wrath! In- 
deed I tremble for my country when I reflect that 
God is just: that his justice cannot sleep forever: — 
that considering numbers, nature, and natural means 
only, a revolution in the wheel of fortune — an ex- 
change in situation, is among possible events ; that 
it may become probable by supernatural interference! 
The Almighty has no attribute which can take 
part with us in such a contest." 

If these are the apprehensions of a man to whom 
Slavery had become a habitual and hereditary evil, 
what should be the feelings of those who would in- 
troduce its contaminating and fearful effects into a 
land which the parental care of the general govern- 
ment, has hitherto preserved from the foul conta- 
gion. 

Bui when you add to this scene of moral depravity, 
the ceaseless anxiety of mind — the constant dread of 
danger which habit may familiarise but not eradi- 
cate from the mind of the Slave-holder, and which 



11 

demands a daily watch and nightly care for the 
safety of himself, his possessions, and his family ; 
when " the fire-hell never rings in his cities, that 
the anxious mother does not clasp her infant closer 
to her breast" — when you reflect on all these at- 
tendant horrors of the proposed system, you will 
surely pause before you introduce them into your 
domestic circle. 

There is another important consideration which 
has occurred to me during* the examination of this 
subject. If the House of Burgesses of Virginia, in 
1772, complained that the introduction of Slaves re- 
tarded the settlement of the colonies with more use- 
ful inhabitants, we shall undoubtedly experience the 
same consequence; for in proportion as moral and 
political enquiry has shewn the disadvantages of a 
Slave population, so will the state in which such a 
population exists, be avoided by industrious and en- 
lightened citizens. The settlement of the state of 
Ohio strongly exemplifies this principle. Many of 
us have had an opportunity of comparing the num- 
bers and nature of her inhabitants, with those of 
Tennessee, Kentucky, and other Slave states settled 
at an earlier period — and that comparison must have 
convinced every reflecting mind that even superior 
advantages of soil and climate, cannot counter- 
balance this powerful objection. Let the landholders 
of Illinois reflect upon this circumstance. 

It is not however the wealthy landholder alone, 
who will find his pecuniary interest deeply affected 
by the proposed system. It would weigh still more 
heavily upon the middling classes of society — those 
who are now happily enjoying the fruits of a hard- 
earned competence, and those whom Providence has 
blessed with the means of obtaining a comfortable 
subsistence, by moderate application and healthful 
temperance. As this valuable portion have much to 
lose by the exchange, let them seriously consider 



u 

whether the advantages offered by the advocates of 
the proposed plan are not fallacious, or at least emi- 
nently hypothetical. In this examination, fellow- 
citizens, the first idea which will present to your 
minds, after the moral effects of Slavery already 
pointed out, will he the disadvantages under which 
you will have to contend with extensive capitalists. 
Wealth creates a monopoly in the hands of its pos- 
sessor ; and confers upon him the power of control- 
ling the market as best may suit his own purposes 
and interest. Occupying a large tract of land, or 
plantation, as it is called by way of pre-eminence, 
and drawing all the profits from a large number of 
dependants, he is enabled to reduce the price, while 
he thus increases the quantity of his produce, and to 
support his lazy pomp upon the unrewarded sweat of 
his fellow-creatures. 

But the effect upon the labouring classes of the 
community would be still more direct and mischiev- 
ous. It degrades their occupation, decreases their 
employment, and lessens their emoluments. In a 
country where slaves are generally employed in par- 
ticular occupations, the mere circumstance of a free- 
man pursuing the same labour, is a sufficient cause 
to subject him to the contempt of the haughty mas- 
ter. This will be evident to any one who is ac- 
quainted with the history of ancient manners, or 
with modern practice. Slavery would decrease the 
employment of free labourers, because it would sud- 
denly introduce a large number of- individuals who 
would necessarily supply their places, and leave 
them a burden of supernumeraries upon society. — 
This last consideration deserves our most serious at- 
tention. It is unnecessary to expatiate upon a truth 
so evident. If the employment of free labourers is 
decreased, it follows as a necessary consequence, 
that their emoluments will be diminished in the same 
proportion. 



1 have now, fellow-citizens, examined this sub- 
ject in considerable detail. Many familiar argu- 
ments have been omitted, and others slightly touched 
upon, because in the present enlightened age, there 
are few who are hardy enough to defend the princi- 
ples of Slavery, when compared with the pure doc- 
trines of Christianity, or when contrasted with the 
free spirit of our republican institutions. I lament 
with our brethren of the south, the infatuated policy 
that introduced this reproach into the bosom of our 
country, and I cordially reciprocate the wish, "that 
emancipation of the Slaves may be with the consent 
of the masters rather than by their extirpation." 

To your own observation I have appealed in the 
comparison between the wealth, power, and influ- 
ence of the non Slave-holding over the Slave-holding 
states; and 1 ask you to contemplate this subject in 
every view, before you decide upon our future desti- 
ny. The moral effects of Slavery I have drawn 
from the writings of an accomplished Virginian, 
that I might not be accused of exaggeration. It is in- 
deed a fearful picture. I believe but few parents can 
contemplate such a dark catalogue of evils, and then 
assist in leaving them as a legacy upon their off- 
spring. I have endeavoured to investigate dispas- 
sionately the pecuniary advantages which the advo- 
cates of this scheme pretend to offer us, and have 
presented you with the result of my enquiries. If 
you agree in judgment with me, the rich cannot be 
benefitted by the introduction of Slavery, because 
the settlement of the state with more useful citizens 
will be retarded ; — the man of moderate means will 
be injured by its monopolizing spirit; and the la- 
bourer will be deprived of employment, and be finally 
reduced to leave the state in which he has been de- 
prived of that labour which has so long supported 
tho community. 



14 

If you have felt indignation at the wrongs inflicted 
on our country by Great Britain, do not be accessa- 
ry to greater oppression. If you detest the combi- 
nation of the Holy Alliance against the liberty 
of the European nations, preserve your consis- 
tency by not imitating those despots. — If you 
sympathise with Spain under the attack upon her 
independence, do not be more cruel than the 
French invaders. If you applaud and venerate our 
Declaration of Independence, do not violate its vital 
principles. If you believe in the pure and humane 
doctrines of Christianity, do not disregard their sa- 
cred precepts, by raising an arm in aid of Slavery. 
If you have wept over the fate of your fellow-citi- 
zens in Algerine captivity, and considered the Bar- 
bary powers as disgraceful among the nations of the 
earth, recollect that Turkish Slavery is not more 
severe than American — that in Algiers the profes- 
sion of the religion of the country emancipates the 
Slave, whilst in America it not only does not eman- 
cipate him, but its exercise is frequently prohibited. 

It is at once the support and glory of our republi- 
can institutions, that they contain within them are- 
generating principle, so that our rulers cannot long 
continue to act in opposition to the will, interest, or 
happiness of the community ; and I trust that the 
freemen of Illinois will constitutionally exert them- 
selves to prevent the introduction of this pernicious 
evil. 



