CONSIDERATIONS 

ON THE 

NEGRO E CAUSE 

COMMONLY SO CALLED, 

ADDRESSED TO 

THE RIGHT HONOURABLE 

LORD MANSFIELD, 

Lord Chief Justice of the Court of 
King's~BencHj &c. 



By SAMUEL ESTWICK, A. M. LL.D. 
Member of Parliament for the Borough oiWeftbury, 



THE THIRD EDITION. 



LONDON: 

jPrinted for J. D O D S L E Y, in P a l l -M a l l. 
M.DCC.LXXXVIII. 



1^ Price 2i. ] 



ri>liO.H9Sti^ no.y 



'K* 



( iii ) 

JDFERTI S EMENt 

T O T H 3S 

READER. 

^HE judgment that was given in the cafi 
of Somtrfet and Knowles^ fo contrary 
to the received opinions at that time^ and to 
the general fenfe of the nation before ^ having 
laid the foundation upon which all the various 
[peculations that upon this fuhjeEi have fnce 
been raifed, and which are at length fo mag-' 
nified and enlarged as to become the object of 
a Parliamentary Inquiry % it is imagined^ that 
a review offome of the arguments which were 
made ufe of on that occafon may not^ - in the 
prefent moment ^ be thought either imperti-^ 
nent or unfeafonable. 

It is under this idea then, that the foU 

lowing Conf derations are again brought for'* 

ward to the public notice: and although 

A 2 their 



( iv ) 

their primary objeB was to Jix and af certain 
the ground upon which the Owner claimed a 
right to his Negroe, ojtd infomiich to develope. 
the fubjeB from the mijl and myjiery with 
which it was want to be furrounded -, yet in 
the courfe of their perifal it will, perhaps, be 
found, that there are not^wanting anfwers to 
fome of the moji leading and popular objeBions 
of the day, that there are fome obfervations 
and remarks, as new in themfelves, as they 
have beeii and are fill unanfwered -, and 
withal, that no part of the performance is 
of a complexion that can do injury, that may 
not produce fome good, and of which the au-^ 
thor, notwithflanding the dijlance of time 
from its publication, feels that he has either 
caufe to be ajhamed, or reafon to repent. 



PREFACE 



( V ) 



PREFACE. 



TH E firft Edition of the following 
Confiderations on the Negroe Cauf© 
was written with hafte, and publifhed in 
a hurry. The hope of feeing fome much 
abler pen than mine engaged in the dif- 
cuffion of fo important a queftion, and yet 
feemingly fo little underftood, withheld 
me from the undertaking; till difappoint- 
ment made it the refolution of an hour, 
and want of time the effedl of a few days 
attention only. It was evident that what- 
ever was to have been fuggefted on the 
^ubjeft, ought to have been known ante- 
cedently to the legal decifion of the Cafe : 
but led on by the expectation of the more 

ufeful 



( vi ) 

tifeful endeavours of others, already wa§ 
the Term, in which judgment was to be 
given, treading clofely on my heels, v/ith-^ 
out my having taken one iingle ftep in ad-* 
vance of the defign. Thus circumftancedj, 
fuch difpatch hecame neceflary as could 
not fail to produce errors, imputable both 
to me and the printer. Whilft one part 
of the pamphlet was printing, the other 
was preparing for the prefs : but even 
this expedition had not its defired effeft. 
The Judgment was beforehand with the 
Publication : whereby the Confiderations 
themfelves were deprived of their objed:^ 
and I, in fome meafure, foiled in my pur- 
pofe. Upon finding however that the 
very grounds of my argument (to wit, the 
opinions of the Lord Chancellors Hard- 
wick and Talbot) were the fubjefts of du^ 
attention to the Court, and that the deter- 
mination refted on this particular Cafe onJy^ 
from circumftances of infufEciency arifing 
out of the return made to the writ of 
Habeas Corpus, I was induced to fuiFer 

this 



( v« ) 

tBIs performance to make Its appearance 
to the public eye, though, like Hamlet's 
Ghoft, with all its imperfeftions on its 
head. 

But being now called upon for a fecond 
Edition, I have carefully corrected the er- 
rors of the firft, fo far as they were per- 
ceiveable to me. I have confiderably en- 
larged the work itfelf. I have inferted feve- 
ral notes, in fome of which the principles 
pf the late publiflied argument of Mr. Har- 
grave, and the argument itfelf, as applied 
tpthe merits of this queftion, avejhort/j ex^ 
amined, though (with what is offered in the 
text) it is to be prefumed,/i//^ refuted. 

Suppofing too, that the judgment of the 
Court of King's Bench in this cafe might 
be no improper addition, I have, from the 
moft authentic copy I was able to procure, 
inferted it here : taking the liberty at the 
fame time of making fqme few occafional 
remarks upon it. 

The following is /aid to be the fubftancc 

of Lord Mansfield's fpeech in the cafe of 

Spmerfet and Knowles : ** We pay due at- 

8 tentioiv 



( viii ) 

tention to the opinion of Sir Philip Yorke 
and Mr. Talbot in the year 1729, by which 
thty pledged themfelves to the Britilh Plan- 
ters for the legal confeqiiences of bringing 
Negroe-llaves into this kingdom, or their 
being bapti^edj' 'which opinion was repeated 
and recognized by Lord Hardwick, fitting 
as Chancellour^on the 1 9th of October 1 749, 
tothefollowingeffea::Hefaid/*thatTrover 
would lay for a Negroe-flave: that a notioa 
prevailed, that if a flave came into England, 
or became a Chrxftian, he thereby became 
emancipated ; but there was no foundation 
in law for fuch a notion ; that when he and 
Lord Talbot were Attorney and Solicitor 
General, this notion of a flave becoming 
free by being baptized prevailed foftrongly, 
that the Planters induflrioufly prevented 
their becoming Chriftians : upon w^hich 
their opinion was taken ; and upon their 
leji conjideration they were both clearly of opi- 
nion^ that a flave did not in the leafl alter 
his fituation or flate towards his Mafler 
or Owner ^ either by being chriflened, or 

coming 



( ix ) 

coming to England: that though theftatute 
of Charles II. had aboliflied Tenure fo far, 
that no man could he a Villein regardant i yet 
if he would acknowledge himfelf a Vellein 
engroffed in any Court of Record, he knew 
of no way by which he could be entitled to 
his freedom, without the confent of his 
Mailer/' We feel the force of the inconve- 
niences and confequences that will follow 
the decifion of this queftion : yet all of us 
are fo clearly of one opinion upon the oitly 
queftion before us, that v/e think we ought 
to give judgment without adjourning the 
matter to be argued before all the judges, 
as ufual in the Habeas Corpus, and as we 
at lirft intimated an intention of doing in 
this cafe. The only queftion then is. Is 
the Caufe returned fiifficient for the remanding 
him? If not y he muft be difcharged. The 
Caufe returned is, ihcfave abfented him- 
felf and departed from his mailer's fervice, 
and refufed to return and ferve him during 
his ftay in England ^ whereupon, by his 
mailer's orders, he wa^ put on board the 
B Ihip 



( X ) 

ihip by force, and there detained in fecure 
cuftody, to be carried out of the kingdom 
and fold. So high an ad: of dominion muft 
derive its authority, if any fuch it has, 
from the law of the kingdom where execu- 
ted. A foreigner cannot be imprifoned 
here on the authority of any law exifting in 
his own country. The power of a mafter 
over his fervant is different in all countries, 
more or lefs limited or extenfive; theexer- 
cife of it therefore mud always be regu- 
lated by the laws of the place where exer- 
cifed. The ftate of flavery is of fuch a na- 
ture, that it is incapable of being, now intro- 
duced by Courts of Juftice upon mere rea- 
foning, or inferences from any principles 
natural or political; it muifl take its rife 
from pofitive law ; the origin of it can in 
no country or age be traced back to any 
other fource. Immemorial ufage preferves 
the^ memory of pofitive law long after all 
traces of the occafion, reafon, authority, 
and time of its introduftion, are loft; and in 
a Cafe fo odious as the condition of flaves 
A muft 



( xi ) 

muft be,. taken ftriftly, the power claimed 
by this return was never in ufe here : no 
mafter ever was allov^ed here to take a 
flave by force to be fold abroad becaufe he 
had deferted from his fervice, or for any 
other reafon whatever ; we cannot fay, 
the Caufe Jet forth by this return is allow- 
ed or approved of by the laws of this 
kingdom, and therefore the man muft be 
difcharged." 

I muftconfefs, I have been greatly puz- 
zled in endeavouring to reconcile this 
judgment with this ftate of it, and with 
my comprehenlion. 

*' We pay due attention to the opinion 
of Sir Philip York and Mr. Talbot," are 
the words of the Noble Lord who deliver- 
ed the judgment of the Court; and yet the 
judgment is, in operation and effed:, diredt- 
ly fubverlive of the opinion. Now I muft 
take for granted that this opinion would 
not have been cited, efpecially in fo, affir- 
mative a manner, if it had had nothing at 
B 2 all 



( xii ) 

all to do with the Cafe then before the 
Court : becaufe fuch citation would have 
been unmeaning and unneceffary. This 
being admitted, it follows, that the law 
laid down in this opinion was either the 
law of the Cafe, or it was not. If it were 
the law of the Cafe, the judgment would 
have been governed by that law, and con- 
fequently contrary to what it is. If it 
were not the law of the Cafe, in order to 
fliew what the law is, and that the law and 
the judgment might correfpond with each 
other, as caufe and efFecft, it would feem, 
ex necejjitate rei, that the dodtrine advanced 
in this opinion {hould have been fet afide by 
the fuperior force of legal argumentation 
and authority. But the reafoning upon the 
judgment ftands thus : In the Premifes 
this opinion is cited as authority; then, 
without any middle term denying that 
authority, the conciufion is, by the judg- 
ment, that it is no authority at all. Under 
thefe problematical circumftances the only 

folution 



( xiii ) 

folution poffible to me was, that there 
might be two decifions intentionally con- 
tained under one judgment: that is to fay, 
that the opinion of Sir Philip York and 
Mr. Talbot, was the law upon the general 
merits of the queftion ; and that this judg- 
ment of the Court was the law upon this 
particular ftate of it. Thus for inftance : 
if the return made to the writ of Habeas 
Corpus in this Cafe had denied the law- 
fulnefs of the writ itfelf, and Mr. Steuart 
had claimed Somerfet upon the ground only 
of being his commercial property-, then 
the opinion of Sir Philip York and Mr, 
Talbot had operated as law and authority : 
but ^s the return had admitted the right 
of flavery, and Mr. Steuart had claimed 
Somerfet as his flave, there being no laws 
of ilavery now in ufe in this country, either 
for Negroes, or for any other fpecies of the 
human being, the judgment of the court 
was, from the infufficiency of the Caufe re- 
turned, the law of this Cafe* 

But 



( xiv ) 

But no fooner had this reconciliation 
taken place in- my mind, than another 
perplexity followed. In the recital of 
the opinion recognized by Lord Hard- 
wick, fitting as Chancellour, it is made 
to conclude thus : ** that though the Sta- 
tute of Charles IL had aboliflied Tenure fo 
far that no man could be a Villein regardant y 
yet if he would acknowledge himfelf a 
Villein ingrofied in any Court of Record, 
he knew of no way by which he could be 
entitled to his freedom without the confent 
of his Mafter," 

Now, by connecting this latter with the 
former part of the opinion, in the manner 
it is done, it appears, as if Lord Hard- 
wick meant to declare, that the ftate 
or fituation of Negroes towards their 
mafters or owners arofe out of, and was 
founded upon, the remains of the antient 
laws of villenage in this country. That 
Lord Hardwick might have faid what is 
here ftated, in order to ihew (by way of 
illuflration of the Cafe upon which he was 

then 



{ XV ) 

then arguing) that even an Englifliman 
might ftill become a Have in this country, 
ty he pleafed, I cannot deny : but with 
any intention to prove that the condition of 
Negroes proceeded from, and v^as the fame 
v^ith, the condition of villeins, is, I muft 
aifert, either the miftake of the perfon 
from v^hofe notes this fpeech was taken, or 
the intention of him to puzzle and perplex 
the Cafe: for it is manifeftlyimpoffible that 
the Court could have put fo much felf- 
contradidtion and ignorance of the law 
in the mouth of fo wife and fo great 
a lawyer. His Lordfhip fays, ** that 
Trover will lie for a Negroe flave." 
Now, can any thing be more expreffive of 
the law and condition of Negroes than this 
is ? What the nature of an adion of Trover 
is, and what kind of property is required 
in a plaintiff to maintain fuch an a<5lion, 
every Tyro of the law mull be acquainted 
with. Would his Lordfhip have faid, 
that Trover would lie for a villein ? Every 
Tyro of the law knows that it would not. 

But 



( xvi ) 

But if a Negroe and a villein were governed 
by the fame laws, Trover would lie for a 
villein. His Lordfhip's own words there- 
fore, and not this combination of them, 
are the beft comment upon his meaning -, 
and he in me, non tali auxilio eget^ &c. 
It is enough that I have given the clew ; 
the reader will unravel the reft himfelf. 

I have now only a fhort word or two 
more to add, in addrefs to the reader j rely- 
ing, from my own confcioufnefs, upon his 
candour, that whatever errors of the head 
he may difcover, he will impute nothing 
that is wrong to the dictates of my heart. 
It is not the want of humanity, it is not the 
want of feeling, but the poffeffion of both, 
with the love of truth, that has given birth 
to thefeConfiderations. My motives have 
been, to fhew that America does not afford 
that fcene of barbarity, which mifreprefen- 
tation would have painted upon it : that 
cruelties and diftrefs are to be found in 
much greater excefs even in this elyjimn of 
liberty : that whatever is the ftate and con- 
dition of Negroes, it is Great Britain and 

not 



( xvil ) 

aiot America that is refponfible for it: 
that this therefore is a Britifh, and not an 
American queftion ; as well it might be, 
fince, if I may be allowed to reafon chy- 
mically upon the occalion, whatever pro- 
perty America may have in its drugs, it is 
Great Britain that receives the effential oyl 
extracted from them. Thefe have been 
my views. I neither meant to condemn or 
approve the ftate and condition of Negroes. 
I have appealed to the law : if the traffic 
made of them be as agreeable to right rea- 
fon as it is according to law, I am glad of 
it; if it be not, let ftate neceffities juftify 
ftate tricks. But I meant an apology for, 
and not a panegyrick upon, myfelf. 



CON- 



[ 19 ] 



CONSIDERATIONS 

ON THE 

NEGROE CAUSE, &c. 



My Lor]>, 

EING, both by birth and fortune^ 
connecSled with one of the Iflands in 
America, I was led, fomewhat intereftedly 
as your Lordflnp may fuppofe, to attend 
to the arguments that were lately offered 
in the Court of King's Bench, in the Cafe 
of Somerfet the Negroe verfus Knowles and 
others. It was a new cafe, faid to be full 
of concern to America; and it had engrofied 
much of general expedation. My objed: 
therefore was that of information : but, 
without meaning to leffen the labours, or 
C 2 depreciate 



[ 20 ] 

depreciate the merits of the learned counfel 
concerned therein, I muft confefs, that 
the lights thrown on the cafe did by no 
means appear to me as, on either fide, de- 
cifive of the point in queflion [a]. It is true 
that a vaft and extenfive variety of reading 
was fliewnand difcovered: the profoundeft 
depths of learning and fcience were fa- 
thomed and explored : lawgivers, philofo- 
phers, civilians, from all hiftoric exigence, 
wex'c brought to light and examined : the 

examples, 

[a] The late publication of Mr. Hargrave's argu- 
ment, as one of Somcrfet's counfel, gives me the 
fatisfadion of feeing in the whole, what I had before 
the opportunity of hearing only in part. I confefs I 
know not which moft to admire, the labour of this 
Gentleman's refearches, or the ingenuity with which 
his colle61ed materials are fyflematized and difpofed. 
It is a hiftory, perhaps the moft compleat that is, of 
the rife, progrefs, decline, and general flate of Slavery ; 
and, whilft it does as much honour to his humanity 
as to his underftanding, will ferve as a light to en- 
lighten the footfteps of pofterity, fhould a revival of 
the laws of Villenage be ever attempted in this coun- 
try : but, having faid this, I muft recur to my former 
opinion, that, learned as his arguments are in general, 
in this particular cafe they are founded on falfe and 

^ miftaken 



[ 21 1 

examples, definitions, and opinions, which 
Mofes, Ariflotle, Juftinian, Grotius, Pu- 
fendoriF, and the reft, had given of flavery, 
were cited, explained, and enlarged upon : 
the edidls and regulations of French, Spa- 
Hifh, German, Flemiih, and Dutch police 
on this head were mentioned and produc- 
ed. 

miftaken principles, and are totally inapplicable to 
the merits of the prefent queftion. His firfl principle 
or point is, (vid. p. 12.) that " whatever Mr. Steuart's 
Right may be, it fprings out of the condition of 
Slavery; and accordingly, fays he, the return fairly 
admits flavery to be the fole foundation of Mr* 
Steuart's Claim." Thus, vi'ith a. PetitioPrincipH, which 
neither is, can, or w^ill be admitted, and upon a mani- 
feft error in the return made to the writ of Habeas 
Corpus, does the argument of Mr. Hargrave com.- 
mence, reft, and depend. But if, inftead of admitting^ 
there being no law to countenance fuch admiilion, 
the return had relinquifhed the right, and denied the 
claim, of flavery : if it had fet forth, that Mr. Steuart 
was the bona fide purchafer of Somerfet in the legal 
courfe of trade : that he had bought him out of a 
fhip's cargoe fi'om Africa, together with fome elephants 
teeth, wax, leather, and other commodities of that 
country, for v/hich he paid his money, or otherwife 
gave in exchange the manufactures of this country : 
that he had brought him here as an article of com- _ 
merce with his other goods, under the fanCtion of 

the 



[ 22 ] 

ed. But, my Lord, with all due deference 
and fubmiffion, may I afk, how applicable 
was this antiquated and foreign doftrine to 
the cafe then under your Lordfhip's con- 
templation ? The politics of Arifcotle are 
not the rules of the Co.urt of King's Bench; 
neither is Ro?nan jtirij prudence the law of 
that court. As a difplay oi general know- 

the lay/s of trade : that he meant to export him hence 
under the lame protedlion, with his other property, in 
order to be fold for his better advantage in one of the 
Eno-lifh Colonies in America : that a writ of Habeas 
Corpus might as well iHiie on account of his elephants 
teeth, his wax, his leather, and his other commodities 
of that country, as on account of his Negroe, they be-, 
ing exprefsly under the fame predicament of law, and 
fo forth : I fay, under fuch circumftances, and upon 
fuch a return, what would have become of this ftately 
pile of elaborate argument ? 

High-built, like Babel's tower, to magnify the fall ! 
Muft not the lawyers have faught new ground to build 
upon ? Mull: not the Court have ioil that error of in- 
fufnciency, v/nich now fupports its only right of Judg- 
ment ? 

Note^ Although this argument of Mr. Hargrave is faid 
to have been delivered in the particular Cafe of Someriet 
a Negroe^ yet it is m^eant and intended as a courfe of 
reafoning upon the general queftion of the flate and 
condition of Negroes, 

ledge. 



[ 23 ] 

ledge, It had with me, as it muft have had 
with every one prefent, its great abundance 
of merit and commendation; and I had 
followed the learned gentlemen, with the 
higheft pleafure, in their travels and pur- 
fuits abroad in fearch of matter of iiluflra- 
tion, if the cafe had been brought home 
with them at laiT:, and refled on its own 
native ground and foundation. But herein, 
my Lord, I found myfelf unfatisfied and 
difappointed : for how the queflion remain- 
ed with your Lofdihip as a point of law for 
the judgment of the Court, I own, I was 
unable to comprehend, or to learn. It is 
therefore, my Lord, that I now take the 
liberty to offer the following Confiderations 
to your Lordfhip's notice and obfervance ; 
trufting to the importance of the fubjed, 
and to your wonted candour, for my apo- 
logy and pardon in the attempt. 

I have read, my Lord, to diftingui/h^ 
and have been ever taught to know, that 
the Lord Chief Juflice of the Court of 
King's Bench is the great ^nd firfl expoun- 
der 



[ 24 ] 

der of the lav/s of this Realm ; great and 
firft in dignity and in office ; in your 
Lordfhip's perfon, great and firft profef- 
fedly in capacity alfo. Of thefe laws then, 
my Lord, I have apprehended that there 
are but two • kinds, however fub-divided 
into forts or fpecies : the unwritten, or 
common law, of which judicial decifions 
are the evidence : or the written or ftatute 
law, otherwife called ads of parliament. 
Nov/, my Lord, fo far as this cafe is refer- 
rable to either of thefe eftabliihments, fo 
far it lies before the Court, and falls under 
the cognizance of your Lordfhip. This is 
the fource of enquiry leading to your judg- 
ment and determination ; and all without 
the circle of this, I conceive to be inappoiite 
and eccentric. The firft queftion then, 
that would feem to arife on this pofition, is. 
What is the common law of the land re- 
fpeding the cafe in iffue, confideredas a cafe 
ofjlavery? It was faid, I remember, by 
one of the counfel, that the prefentftate of 
ilavery among Negroes was totally different 

from 



[ 25 ] 

from the ancient condition of villenage* 
that it was a new fpecies of flavery utterly un- 
known to the common law of England. [^,] 
In this opinion I readily coincide, and agree 
with the learned gentleman. The next 
queftion is. What do adls of parliament 
fay on this head ? I believe it muft be faid 
for them, that they are, enaBivelyy if I 
may be allowed the expreffion, filent. If 
this be fo, then the conclufion will operate 

in 

[b'\ It is faid in Mr. Hargrave's argument, p. 23. 
*' fuch was the expiring ttate of domeftic flavery in 
Europe at the commencement of the i6th century^ 
when the difcovery of Am.erica and of the Weftern 
and Eaftern coafts of Africa, gave occafion to the in- 
trodutlion of a new fpecies of flavery." If the arguer 
had faid a new fpecies of traffic^ inftead of a new fpe- 
cies of flavery, he had exprefled the real matter of 
fa^l ; feeing that the law by which this concern is 
regulated, confiders it in no other light or view what- 
ever. For this reafon too, it cannot be enumerated 
among the feveral fpecies of flavery that he has men- 
tioned, and taken notice of; each diftinft fpecies hav- 
ing its diftincSl laws, appropriated thereto diftirnfllyj 
as the laws of flavery. Among the Portuguefe and 
Spaniards, I. have been given to underftand, that Ne- 
groes are, and have ever been confldered, as with the 
Englilh, matter of Property, and articles of commerce 

D i« 



[ 26 ] 

in the nature of a plea to the jurlfdidion of 
your LordOiip's Court. If the cafe be un- 
known to the common law, and ads of 
parliament are filent thereupon, what bafis 
muft your Lordfhip's judgment take? 
Where there is no law, there can be no 
remedy. If the common law be defediive, 
it is the bufmefs of acls of parliament to 
fupply the defers : but until thofe defeds 
are iu^^WtA, fu^ judice lis ejl, and the matter 

in the common courie of traffic ; and were fo efllmated 
by the French, until the refined age of Lewis XIV, 
gave rife to a new inftltution of lav/, under the title 
of the Code noir^ for the particular government of 
Negroes in their American colonies. It were to be 
wilhed that a fit and proper digefl of this fort could 
take place with us: but, I fear, the difficulty (v^hich 
arifes not fo much from the fubjedl, as from the rr-eans 
of introduction) will prevent the execution of any 
fuch plan. From the unlimited power of the Crown 
of France, when lav/s are made, it is eafy to en- 
force an obedience to them : from the limited power 
of our monarchy, fuch obedience is not to be exaded. 
Each Englifh colony has a legi ilature of its own ; and 
although they all agree in the framing of laws not re- 
pugnant to the laws of England, yet they all widely 
differ among themfelves in the vaoAo. and pradice of 
thofe laws, 

muft 



r -7 ] 

mud: remain undetermined. Your Lord- 
ihip may however tell me, that, Vv^here 
poiitive law is wanting, whereupon to 
ground the deciiions of a Court, re-courfe 
may be had to the maxims and principles 
©f law, to the fpirit of the conftitution. 
The refult of this, my Lord, at beft, is but 
matter of opinion ; belides^ cafss founded 
on the felf-fame principles will often have 
very different determinations, according 
to the difference of circumflances, and the 
alteration or change oftim.es. Thus> if it 
had even been an original maxim of the 
comimon law, that ilavery v/as incomjpatible 
with the frame and conflitution of this 
country, yet it does not therefore follov/, 
that occalions have not iince arifen to com- 
bat with this principle, and to juftify parti- 
clilar conclafions differing from thefe ge- 
neral premifes. For inftance, my Lord, 
the impreffing of feamen, is an idea as 
heterogeneous to the nature and cffencQ of 
this governm>ent, as flavery painted on the 
blacked ground can be. It is flavery itfelf, 

D 2 in 



[ 28 ] 

in its very definition; and what fignifies 
the name, fays Hudibras, fince the thing 
is the fame ? But the indifpenfablenefs of 
the meafure has neverthelefs (to continue 
the metaphor) given colour to the pradlice, 
and it is now feen in another light and 
view. But to return : If your Lordfliip 
fhould be of opinion, for opinion it muft 
be, if there is no pofitive law to ground 
your judgment upon, that Negroes in this 
country are free, I will place in oppofition 
to this, the opinions of the late Lord 
Chancellour Hardwick, and his predecefTor 
the Lord Chancellour Talbot, to w^it, that 
Negroes in this country are not free. Your 
Lordfhip perceives, that I take your opi- 
nion upon fuppofition only .; the other 
opinions are well-known fad:s. To fearch 
then for the grounds of your opinion, 
without the certainty of its being fo, 
would be now premature and unnecefTary : 
but, knowing the opinions of thefe two 
great oracles of the law, it is of neceffity to 
conclude, that they had the moft fufficient 

foundation 



[ 29 3 

foundation for them, feeing that it is allow- 
ed on every hand, that no opinion v\^as 
ever given in any cafe whatever with greater 
.folemnity, or more deliberation, than thefe 
were. Now, my Lord, to inveftigate the 
reafons of thefe opinions, is one way, 
perhaps, to arrive at the truth : but to fol- 
low men like thefe, in their refearches, is a 
procedure fitted only to abilities fuch as 
your Lordfliip's are. As conjecture how- 
ever is open to all, though pofitive know- 
ledge is but the gift of a few ; I fhall 
therefore venture to fuggeft what might in 
part have led the ideas of thefe great and 
wife men to the conclufion which they have 
drawn, namely, that Negroes in this coun- 
try do not become free. I have before 
ftated, my Lord, and have agreed with one 
of the learned counfel, that the condi- 
tion of flavery among Negroes is unknown 
to the common law of this land : that it is 
a new fpecies of flavery, which has arifen 
within, and not beyond, the memory of 
man, as is neceifary to the defcriptive qua- 

2 lity 



[ 30 ] 

lity of this kind of law • and, therefore, 
being not under the comprehenfion, it can- 
not be within the abfolute provifion of it, 
however reduceable thereto it may be made, 
by analogy, implication, or conftrudiion. 
I have faid too, that ads of parliament are 
iilent on this head. I have repeated what 
I had before ftated and faid, in order to 
draw this inference : that although the 
flavery of Negroes is unknov/n to the 
common lav/ of this country, and ads of 
parlianlent are filent thereupon ; yet the 
right which Mr. Steuart claims in the 
Negroe, Somerfet, is a right given him by 
ad of parliament. 

I muft then apprize your Lordfhip, that 
from this inftant it is my intention to drop 
the term Slavery, at lead as a term in ar- 
gument with me. It is an odious word, 
that engendered this law-fiiit, and now 
feeds and fapports it with the fuel of 
heated paffions and imaginations. Inftead 
therefore of fuch prejudiced and unpopular 
ground, v/hereupon the cafe has hitherto 
\ ^ been 



[ 31 ] 

been made to iland, I (hail take the liber.T 
tj to remove its iituation, to change its 
point of view, and to reft it on the land 
oi commercial Property-y from whence, per- 
haps, it will be feen, not only in a iefs of- 
fenfive light, but where alfo it may find a 
foundation more folid and fubftantial for 
its iiipport. 

It is matter of courfe, my Lord, to fay, 
that you are well acquainted with all the 
ads of parliainent relative to the royal 
African comp^any of England, from its 
eilablifhment by charter in the reign of 
Charles the Second down to the prefent 
time [c]. Now, my Lord, the end of this 
company was trade : the ol)jedl of ^that 

trade 

[t] I have referred to this period of the Negros- 
trade to Africa, becaufe Ads of Parliament go no far- 
ther back in confirmation of it ; but its commence- 
ment Vv'as of much earner date. It began in this coun- 
try about the middle of the 15th century, and was 
carried on by means of letters patent obtained by 
individual traders for their private emolument, until 
the growth of the Englifh plantations, in America, in- 
the next century, made it an objed of fuch impor-, 

tance'^ 



[ 32 1 

trade Negroes, as the preamble to the adl 
of the 23d of Geo. II. c. xxxi. thus ex- 
prefsly declares : " Whereas the trade to 
" and from Africa is very advantageous to 
** Great-Britain, and neceffary for fupply- 
** ing the plantations and colonies there- 
*' unto belonging v^^ith a fufficient number 
*' of Negroes, at reafonable rates, it is 
<* therefore enadled, &c. &c.'' What- 
ever then, my Lord, is matter of trade, 
your Lordfhip knov^s, muft be matter of 

tance, as not only to render the eflablifhment of a com- 
pany neceflary, but of fuch profit as to engage even 
crowned heads to be concerned therein. The firft 
charter was granted in the year 1661, in favour of the 
Duke of York j but being revoked by confent of par- 
ties, it was renewed in the year 1663, with more ample 
privileges than the former. The principal adventurers 
here, were Queen Catharine of Portugal, Mary Queea 
of France, the Duke of York, Henrietta Maria Duch- 
efs of Orleans, Prince Rupert, and others of the Court. 
Thus upon the ground of an exclufive Right was this 
trade continued, till, by the vaft increafe of the colo- 
nies, it became, in the beginning of the prefent cen- 
tury, a weight too heavy for the fupport of prerogative ; 
and fo falling under the protetSlion of Parliament, was 
made, as it now is, a free, open, and national concern. 

property^ 



[ 33 ] 

property. The idea of the one is necef- 
' farily involved in the other. But, my 
Lord, thefe adts have not been content with 
this general conftrudlion : they have gone 
farther, and^ have themfelves fet the mark 
and ftam.p of property upon Negroes. 
Whether, my Lord, the Legiflature is jufti- 
fiable herein, or whether it has authority 
by the laws of nature to do this, is not for 
me to determine. It is, perhaps, a right, 
like many other civil rights, eftablifhed 
by power, and maintained by force : but 
this is matter of fpeculation for the fpe- 
culative. I here contend only, that the 
fad: h as I have ftated it to be; and as it 
will appear by the ftatute of the 25th of 
Geo. IL c. xl. ** which v/as made for the 
*^ application of a fum of money therein 
'^ mentioned, granted to his Majefty, for 
** making compenfation and fatisfadion to 
** the Royal African company of England, 
** for their charter, lands, forts, caftles, 
** flaves, military ftores, and all other their 
*^ effeds vv^hatfoever 3 and to vejl the lands, 
*' forts, caflks, flaves, military ftores, and 
E '' all 



[ 34 ] 

** all other their effeBs^ in the company of 
** merchants trading to Africa^" and 
wherein it is enabled, that ** the royal 
** African company of England, from and 
** after the tenth day of April one thoufand 
** feven hundred and fifty-two, ihall be, 
** and they are hereby, abfolutely divefted 
*' of and from their faid charter, lands, 
*^ forts, caftles, and military ftores, canoe- 
*^ men, cajlle-jlaves, and all other their ejiate^ 
** property, and effeSls whatfoever ; and that 
*' all and every the Britiih forts, lands, 
'* caftles, fettlements, and fadories, on the 
*^ coaft of Africa, beginning at Port Sally^, 
*' and extending from thence to the Cape of 
*^ Good Hope inclufive, which weregran ted 
*^ to the faid company by the faid charter, 
*^ or which have been fince erefted or pbr- 
*^ chafed by the faid company; and all other 
*^ the regions, countrieSg dominions, terri- 
^'^ tories, continents, coafcs, ports, bays, 
^^ riverSg and places, lying and being within 
*^ the aforefaid limits, and the iflands near 
^* adjoining to thofe coafls, and compre- 
*^ hended within the limits defcribed by 

'' the 



[ 35 ] 

^* the faid charter ^ and which now are, or 
" at any time heretofore have been, in the 
'* poffeffion of, or claimed by, the faid 
** royal African company of England, to- 
*^ gether with the cannon and other mili- 
'^ tary ftores, canoe-men^ cajile-jlavesy at and 
** belonging to the faid forts, caftles, fettle- 
** ments, and factories, particularly men- 
" tioned and fet forth in the firft fchedule 
*^ to this ad: annexed (fuch ftores as have 
** been made ufe of in the fervice of the 
** forts, and fuch canoe-men and Jlaves as 
" may have died fince the taking of the 
** faid furvey, only excepted) ^ and alfo all 
*• contradls and agreements made by or for, 
'* or on the behalf of, the faid royal African 
'* company, with any of the kings, princes, 
^^ or natives, of any of the countries or 
" places on the faid coafts j and all other 
'^ the property y ejlate^ and effeBs whatfoever, 
** of the faid royal African company, .(hall, 
*' from and after the faid tenth day of April 
** one thoufand fcven hundred and fifty^ 
" two, be vejied in, and the fame and every 
^* of them are and is h^x^hy fully and abfo- 
B z ** lutely 



[ 36 1 

'' lutely vejied in the f aid corporation, called 
'* and known by the name of ^ The com- 
" *pany of merchants trading to Africa/ and 
*^ their fucceffors, freed and abfolutely dif- 
** charged of and from all claims and de- 
** mands of the faid royal African company 
** of England, and their creditors, and every 
*' of them, and of all and every perfon or 
^^ perfons claiming under them, or any or 
** either of them/' 

Here, my Lord, the legal nature of Ne- 
groes, if I may fo fpeak, is fully eftablifhed 
and clearly afcertained, by ad of parlia- 
ment. Your Lordfhip perceives, that they 
2<x€in hoc verbo declared to be property, and 
are vefted as goods and chattels, and as other 
effefts are, in owners prefcribed for them. 
If it is obferved, my Lord, that the term 
Slave is made ufe of, and recognized by 
this a£l of parliament ^ it is anfwered, not 
relatively fo, as to a ftate of ilavery, but 
defcriptively only of fuch things as fhall be 
deemed the property and effedls of this com- 
pany. The ftatute, my Lord, of the 5th 
of His prefent Majefly, ch. xliv. enad:s, 

'' that 



[ 37 ] 

** that fuch parts of Africa as were ceded by 
the laft treaty of Paris, together with the 
goods, flaves, and other efFedls thereunto 
belonging, and which were, by a former 
aft, vefted in the company of merchants 
trading to Africa, fhall now become the 
property of the Crown i" fo that the King, 
as well as this corporation of merchants, 
are, by the law of the land, poffeffed, and 
are now the adual and rightful owners, of 
a very coniiderable number of Negroes, 
under the afore-mentioned defcription, of 
canoe-men, caflle-ilaves, women, children, 
carpenters, and other artificers, particu- 
larly fet forth in fchedules annexed to the 
afore-mentioned ads. It is alfo enaded, 
** that the trade to Africa fhall be free and 
open to all His Majefly's fubjedls, with- 
out preference or diftindion /* and it is 
further provided, *' that thefe adls fhall 
be taken and deemed as public ads, and 
fliall be judicially taken notice of as fuch 
by all Judges, Juftices, and other perfons 
whatfoever, without fpecially pleading the 
2 fame/' 



I 38 ] 

fame/' Thus far, my Lord, do adls of 
parliament extend in the confirmation and 
eflablifhment of this trade to Africa. I 
{hall now beg leave to cite one ftatute 
more, in order unqueftionably to prove 
what the fenfe of the Legiilature of this 
country is, with refpedl to the ftate and 
condition of Negroes. This ftatute, my 
Lord, is the 5th of Geo. ILc. viith, where- 
in (it being made for the more eafy reco- 
very of debts in His Majefty's plantations 
and colonies in America (it is enafted** that, 
*^ from and after the twenty-ninth day of 
** September one thoufand feven hundred 
*^ and thirty-two, the houfes, lands, Ne- 
** groes, and other hereditaments and real 
** eftates, fituateor being within any of the 
** faid plantations, belonging to any perfon 
** indebted, ihall be liable to, and charge- 
" able with, all jull debts, duties, and de- 
** mands, of what nature or kind foever, 
** owing by any fuch perfon to His Ma- 
^* jefty, or any of his fubjecls, and fhall 
^' and may be aiTets for the fatisfadtion 

*' thereof. 



. [ 39 ] 

** thereof, in like manner as real eftates arc 
** by the lav/ of England liable to the fa- 
** tisfaclion of debts due by bond or other 
'' fpecialty, and (hall be fubjedt to the like 
^* remedies, proceedings, and procefs, in 
^* any court of law or equity, in any of the 
*^ faid plantations refpectively, for feizing, 
'' extending, felling, or difpofmg, of any 
** fuch houfes, lands, Negroes, and other 
'' hereditaments, and real eftates, towards 
^' the fatisfadion of fuch debts, duties, and 
'' demands, in like manner as perfonai 
'' eftates in any of the faid plantations re- 
** fpedively are feized, extended, fold, or 
** difpofed of, for the fatisfadion of fuch 
'' debts." 

Herein then, my Lord, is not to be 
found even the trace of an idea of flavery 
confidered as fuch by Parliament, among 
Negroes : but, on the contrary, what their 
legal ftate and condition is^ is conceived 
and expreffed in terms fo plain and clear, 
fo explicit and precife, that the moft fcep- 
tical cannot doubt the meaning, nor the 
mofl fimple fail to underftand it. They 

are. 



[ 40 ] 

are, as houfes, lands, hereditaments, and 
real eftate, affets ; and, in like manner as 
perfonal eftate, to be difpoled of, for the, 
payment of debts due to the King and his 
fubjefts. 

Upon this ftate and expofition then,^ 
my Lord, of thefe feveral fcatutes, it 
would feem that I am well warranted, 
by their authority, in my idea, that the 
right which Mr. Steuart claims in the 
Negroe Somerfet, is a right given him 
by afl: of parliament ; and confirmed in 
niy propofition, that this is a cafe of pro- 
perty. 

But, my Lord, in order fully to efla- 
blifh this dodtrine, it may perhaps be ex- 
pedted, that I ihould not only ihew what 
the law is, but that I ihould prove alfo 
what the law is not ; and this muft necef- 
farily lead me to reafon fomewhat more 
clolely on the fabjedl:. 

I am aware it may be objeSed, my Lord, 
that property in Negroes fo vefted, is a 
property created in Africa for the ufe and 
purpofe of the colonies in America : from 

whence 



t 41 3 

whence a queftion will be deduced. Whe- 
ther Negroes are property in England ? 

It appears, my Lord, that a trade is 
opened, with the fancftion, and now under 
the protedion of parliament, between the 
iubjedls of Great Britain and the natives or 
inhabitants of Africa. The medium of thi^ 
trade on the one hand are, manufadlures, 
goods, wares, and other merchandize : 
on the other, captive Negroes, or flaves ; 
which, for thefe commodities, are given 
in barter and exchange. It will be allow- 
ed, I prefume, ray Lord, that thefe Britiih 
traders, or merchants, have an abfolute 
property in their merchandize ; to truck 
and to traffic with this merchandize is the 
legal inftitution of the trade : it will be ab- 
furd then to deny, that they have not an 
equal intereft in the thing received, as they 
had in the thing given. To avoid this di- 
lemma then, the objedtion recurs ; that, in 
Africa they may have an interefl, in Ame- 
rica they may have the fame, in Europe 
they have none : but affertion without 
proof, is argument without weight. Where 

F is 



[ 42 ] 

is the law that has drawn this line of dif- 
tindion ? Is there any ad: of parliament, 
or claufe of an ad of parliament, that has 
fixed and defcribed the zones or climates 
wherein property in Negroes may be held;, 
or where it may not be held ? Until I am 
better informed, my Lord, I muft take for 
granted, that no fuch law exifts -, and if 
no fuch law does exift, the manifeft con-* 
clufion is, that where property is once le- 
gally vcfted, it muft legally remain 5 until 
altered or extinguifhed by fome power co- 
equal to that which gave it [/|. 

But 

[d] Mr. Hargrave fays, in his argument, p. 67, 
" Another obje6lion will be, that there are Englifh ads 
of parliaments which give a fan6lion to the flavery of 
Negroes ; and therefore that it is now lawful, what- 
ever it might be antecedently to thofe flatutes. The 
ftatutes in favour of this objedlion are the 5th of 
Geo. II. ch. 7, which makes Negroes in America 
liable to all debts, fimple contract as well as fpeciality, 
and the ftatutes regulating the African trade, particu- 
larly the 2^d Geo. II. ch. 31, which in the preamble 
recites that the trade to Africa is advantageous to Great 
Britain, and neceflary for fupplying its colonies with 
]SIegroes. But the utniofl which can be faid of thefe 

itatutes 



[ 43 ] 

But as it may perhaps be to the piir- 
pofe, my Lord, to try the force and efFecl 
of thefe ad:s of trade referred to, I will, 
with your Lordiliip's indulgence, ftate a 
cafe or two, whereby their operation in this 
country might be felt and perceived. 

Suppofe, my Lord, that a fleet of mer- 
chant fhips belonging to the African com- 
pany, containing twenty thou fand Negroes 
on board (more or lefs, it is of no matter), 
bound from Africa to America, fliould, by 

ftrange, 

flatutes is, that they impliedly authorize the flavery of 
Negroes in America ) and it would be a Arrange thing 
to fay, that permitting flavery there, includes a per- 
miffion of flavery here. By an unhappy concurrence of 
circumfliances, the flavery of Negroes is thought to' have 
become neccflTary in America ; and therefore in Ameri- 
ca our Legiflature has permitted the flavery of Negroes. 
But the flavery of Negroes is unnecelTary in England, 
and therefore the Legiflature has not extended the per- 
miflion of it to England ; and not having done fo, hov7 
can this Court be warranted to make fuch an exten- 
fion ?" Now this is the very aflertion without proof that 
I have complained of above, and have there fully an- 
fwered : but, in truth, the befi: anfwer it can receive, is 
its own futility. Why did not Mr. Hargrave, inftead 
of his ipfe dixit^ produce authorities to fet afide this 
F 2 objedion.? 



[ 44 J 

ftrange, contrary, and adverfe winds, be 
driven and wrecked upon the coaft of Eng- 
land; that the (hips were loft and deftroyed> 
but that the Negroes had been landed in 
fafety on this fhore of freedom : would the 
African company, my Lord, be juftified 
and entitled to re-iliip thefe Negroes in 
other veffels, to the end that they might be 
conveyed to their deftined ports in Ame- 
rica ? Or, would the pure air of this coun- 
try, as has been infifted on, fet them, with 
caps of liberty on their heads, free and at 

obje^lion ? He is on other occafions not fparing of 
proofs and citations. But what is his ipfe dixit? It is 
this : 

The Legiflature has permitted the flavery of Negroes 
in America : 
But the flavery of Negroes is unnecsflary in England : 
Ergo, the Legiflature has not extended the permiilion of 
it to England. 

This is his mode of reafonine, and thefe are his very 
ivords, which, when examined fyllogiftically, fhew, if i 
have not forgotten my logic, that they are as little con- 
formable to rule, as to matter of fact. But, the fad is, 
Mr, Hargrave has found this obje6tlon a tumbling block 
in his way, and therefore, nimbly leaping over it himfelf, 
fcas left it to trip up the heels of his followers. 

larger 



[ 45 ] 

large • thereby robbing, for fo I mufl: call 
it, thefe merchants of their property to the 
amount of one million of money, at the 
allowance, and on the moderate computa- 
tion, of fifty pounds price for each indivi- 
dual Negroe ? In this kingdom of com- 
merce, my Lord, where the rights of 
merchants are fo well diftinguiifhed, and 
the laws of trade are fo minutely known, I 
(hould prefume that the cafe would not ad- 
mit of a queilion. Of what ufe would 
the charter of this company be to them, if 
the laws protective of that charter fhould 
be found inadequate and ineffectual to the 
maintenance and fecurity of their property ? 
But again : it has been obferved, that 
by the flatute of the 5th of George III. 
chap. x!iy. a number of canoe-men^ 
and other Negroes, in Africa, were vefted 
in the Crown, Now, by canoe- men, I 
fuppofe, my Lord, are meant, African 
Tailors. Suppofe then, that one hundred, 
for example, of thefe faibrs lliould, by 
2 fome 



[ 46 ] 

fome contrivance or other, find their way 
into England ; would the King, my Lord, 
have authority to remand them to their 
place of duty ? or, would writs of Habeas 
Corpus, in defpite of this ad of Parlia- 
ment, protedl them here ^ thereby deter- 
mining the right of the Crown in them ? 
The cafe, my Lord, fpeaks and determines 
for itfelf. Wherein then, my Lord, dif- 
fers the cafe of Mr. Steuart from thefe ? 
Their importance is greater, but the prin- 
ciple throughout is the fame. I believe it 
is not denied that Mr. Steuart v/as the 
io?ia^de pur ch2i&r of Somerfet, in the legal 
courfe of trade. I do not apprehend that 
any evidence was offered to iliew that he 
iiad ftolen him, or that he came by him 
otherwife furreptitioufly. If my memory 
does not fail me, the property was proved, 
by affidavit, before your Lordfhip ; or it 
was flated in the return made to the Writ 
of Habeas Corpus ; but in either way it is 
of no concern, fince the title-deeds are 

not 



■ [ 47 ] 

not now before the Court as the objedls of 
of Litigation [e], 

[e] With refpecSl to the flatute of the 5th of Geo. II. 
G. 7. there are not wanting frequent inftances of its 
having been inforced in this country ; particularly in a 
cafe of the noted Rice : who, forging a Letter of Attor- 
ney with intent to defraud the Bank of England of a 
confiderable fum of money, fled to France, was deliver- 
ed up by that Court, and afterwards hanged at Tyburn. 
It feems, upon his abfconding, a commiflion of Bank- 
ruptcy was awarded againft him ; and the Commifiion- 
ers, as I am credibly informed, under this very AS: of 
Parliament here mentioned^ fold a Negroe of his in the 
city of London, as his property, and among his other 
goods and chattels, for the fatisfadtion of the creditors. 
But this a6i: does not require cafes for its confirmation, 
neither is it the place where executed that I contend 
for ; it is the vejiing of the property^ without provifo or 
condition, that furmounts all objedion. Suppofe I had 
purchafed a Negroe in the ifland of Barbadoes, or in any 
other part of America, that had been extended there at 
the fait of the King for a debt due to him, and had 
brought this Negroe with me to England : would Mr, 
Hargrave, or any other lawyer, fay, that a writ of Ha- 
beas Corpus, or any other writ whatfoever not founded on 
the verd'id of a jury^ could difpofTefs me of a property, 
which I held under the fenfe, letter, and fpirit of an AS: 
of Parliament ? Can any implication of law operate 
againft the exprefs words and meaning of a law ? And 
would not fuch argument in its confequences be a mere 
feducfio ad abfurdum P- 

Here 



[ 48 ] 

Here tlien, my Lord, without farther 
difquifition, I might venture to reft the 
defence of Mr. Steuart, and therein the 
law of the cafe itfelf. The reafoning, 
perhaps, may be faid to be new, and it is 
opinion only of my own that fupports the 
docSrine : but, I truft, that, upon exami- 
nation, it will be found to be not therefore 
the lefs conclufive. However, as I am upon 
the fubjecft, it may not be amifs that I 
&ould purfue it fomewhat farther; and, by 
extending the chain of enquiry, ftrength- 
en and enforce the arguments that have 
been already offered and applied. It was 
faid, by one of the plaintiff's counfel, that 
municipal laws were binding only in the 
ftate wherein they were made ; that, as 
foon as a member of that ftate was out of 
it, they ceafed to have their influence on 
him 'y and the laws of nature of courfe 
fucceeded to him. As a general propofi- 
tion, my Lord, this might have had its 
admiffion; but even as fuch, it is not with- 
out its exception. I think I have the moft 

claffical 



t 49 3 

tlaffical authority of the law to fay other* 
wife. For inftance, allegiance, which is 
the duty that every fubjed owes to the 
fovereign, or fovereignty^ of that particular 
ftate t0 which he belongs, is a municipal 
law; and yet, neither time, place, nor cir- 
cumftance, can alter, forfeit, or cancel, the 
obligation. An Engliihman (fays Judge 
Blackftone) [J^], who removes to France 
or to China, owes the fame allegiance to 
the King of England there as at home, 
and twenty years hence as well as now. 
Butj my Lord, with regard to the parti- 
cular application of this propoiition, when 
the gentleman endeavoured to make a dif- 
tin(5tion between the laws of the colonies 
and the laws of England, in my apprehen- 
fion he was extremely miflaken. I fancy 
the relationihip and dependency of the 
children colonies on their mother country 
did not occur to his mind. The circum- 
fiance of their having internal laws of their 
own, by no means argues a difference in 

[/] ^i^« Blackftone's Commentaries, vol^ i, p. 369, 
Q thq^e 



[ 50 ] 

thofe laws, independent of the laws of 
England. As well might It be fald, that 
the laws of England are not the laws of 
the county of Kent, becaufe by the cuftom 
of gavelkind they differ from the general 
laws in the difpofition of Eflates -, and fo 
of Borough-Engliih, and wherever in this 
kingdom particular cuftoms are to be found 
or met with. For, my Lord, it is not only 
a firft and leading principle of legiflation 
in the colonies, arifing out of their original 
grants and charters, and enforced by the 
royal inflrud:ions given to commanders in 
chief there ; but it is alfo enadled by the 
ftatute of the 7th and 8th of William HI. 
ch. xxii. *^ that no law, ufage, or cuflom, 
lliall be made or received In the plantations, 
repugnant to the laws of England :" fo that, 
by thefe reftrldllons, the very leges loci 
(wherein, from fituatlon, from climate, and 
from other circumftances, one might na- 
turally fuppofe fome difference) are forced 
as much as may be to a conformitv with 
the conftitution and laws of this country; 
-f and 



[ SI J 

and to prevent even the accident of a con- 
trary occurrence, your Lordfhip knows, 
that there is acounfellour appointed to the 
board of trade here, whofe efpecial bufinefs 
it is, to examine all the colony acTts, and 
thereupon to make his report, if neceffary, 
previous to the royal confirmation of 
them. If property, therefore, in Ne- 
groes, was repugnant to the law of Eng- 
land, it could not be the law of America : 
for (befides the reafons already affigned) by 
the fame ftatute wherever this repugnancy 
is, there the law is ipfo fadio null and void, 
fiut I will further endeavour to elucidate 
this matter, by begging a queftion or two, 
by way of cafe in point. Let it be ad- 
mitted then, that a colony of Englifh had 
embarked from hence, in order to eftablifli 
fettlements for themfelves in fome one of 
the late ceded iflands in the Weft Indies, 
and that they were arrived, it may be faid, 
in the ifland, where EngliJJ^ troops^ tramps 
ling on the hws of God and nian^ are 
Jl.aughiering even to extirpation a guiltlefs 

G 2 race 



[ 52 ] 

race ofCanhs^ the aborigines of the country, 
I mean the ijland of St, Vincent, an ijland 
under the tutelage of a Saint too ! And 
fuppofe that, upon their arrival there, the 
Legiflature of that country had taken it 
into their heads to pafs an aft fimilar to the 
25th of Geo. II. ch. xl. already referred to, 
thereby vefting thefe people as property, in 
certain owners allotted to them : I fhould 
be glad to know, my Lord, whether this 
aca could poflibly have operated as a law, 
and whether it was not, eo inftaitti, upon 
its being enaded, deiiitute and void of all 
force, validity, and efFefl: ? Your Lord- 
ihip's anfwer doubtlefs would be, that this 
acft muft have been its ov/n executioner, 
that it was felo de fe. Why then, my 
Lord, does not the principle direftive of 
this concluficn on the cafe of the colony of 
Englifh, determine likewife on the cafe of 
the Negroes ? If an ad of an American 
plantation making property of a colony of 
Englifh there, is nullified^^.^ initio from its 

being 



[ S3 ] 

Being enafted, why is not an afl: making 
property of a colony of Africans fafcep- 
tible of the fame nullity ? The reafon, 
mv Lord, is twofold : firft, becaufe in the 
one adt, fuch a law is not only repugnant 
to, but abfolutely fubverfive of, the laws 
of England : fecondly, becaufe in the 
other a£t, fuch a law is not only confift- 
ent with, but founded on, the laws of 
England : and this, my Lord, proves to 
mathematical demonflration, that the co- 
lony laws are not only in general dependant 
on the laws of England, but, in particu- 
lar inftances, owe their origin and fource 
to them : fo that, as the refracfled rays of 
light, diverging from one point through 
a prifm, may be concentred in the fame 
focus I in like manner may thefe laws, 
notwithftanding their number and varie- 
ty, be coUeded and difpofed of in one 
common fyftem or digeft, as parts of 
the fame whole. From what therefore 
I have here fuggefled, my Lord, I mean 
to conclude generally, that the right and 
property, not only of Mr. Steuart in his 

Negroe 



[ 54 J 

Negroe Somerfet, but of every flibjed: of 
Great Britain in his Negroe or Negroes, 
either in the colonies or elfewhere, is a 
right and property founded in him by the 
law of this land ; that the royal grants, 
letters patent, and charters, for and of the 
African trade and company, confirmed and 
eftabliihed by afts of Parliament, are the 
foundation whereupon all the laws of the 
colonies, refpedting their Negroes, are 
built ; and that, without fuch fandion, 
thofe laws could never have been made. 
For, my Lord, it is evident that the colo- 
nies could not have had power of them- 
felves to inftitute this trade to Africa^ nei- 
ther have they the means to fupport it. 
Without this trade then to Africa, no Ne- 
groes could have bden imported to them ; 
and if they had had no Negroes among 
them, they had needed no laws appertain- 
ing to Negroes [g]. 

But 

[g] Mr. Hargrave further fays, in his argument, p. 
67 and 68, " The flavery of Negroes being admitted 
to be lawful mw in America, however queftionabk its 
frji introduction there might be, it may be urged tha^ 

the 



[ S3 i 

fiut, my Lord, it may- be urged, tliaf 
although the laws of England may make 
property of Negroes, they do not make 
ilaves of them. I ihould imagine that, al- 
though an individual, I might anfwer in- 
dividually for every American fubjed: of 

the lex lod ought to prevail, and that the mafter's pro- 
perty in the Negroe as a (lave having had a lavi^ful com- 
mencement in America, cannot be juftly varied by 
bringing him into England." This is one among other 
objedions raifed by Mr. Hargrave in order to receive 
his anfwer. Now as to the doubt exp relied here, name- 
ly, ^' however queftionable its firft introdu6tion there 
might be," the right of granting letters patent, and of 
ereding corporations for the purpofes of trade, being 
the undoubted prerogative of the king as arbiter of the 
commerce of his dominions ; the lawfulnefs o^ this trade 
to Africa is no more to be queftioned whilft it was 
carried on under this diredion, than it is to be queftion- 
ed now it is under the controul of parliament. It was 
before conftitutionally legal, it is now parliamentary 
fo : but the anfwer to the objedion itfelf is as little fa- 
tisfadory as the doubt is. Here a mod unnatural dif- 
tindion is aimed at between the colony laws in Ame- 
rica, and the laws of their mother country : putting the 
lex loci of thefe colonies upon the fame footing with, 
the lex loci of Ruffia or Pruflla, or any other foreign 
country :' v/hereas the lex loci of the colonies is founded 
on the lex loci of England, and is, in totidem verbis^ the 
fame, as has been made to appear. 

the 



- t 56 ] 

the King, that they do not defire any 
greater intereft in their Negroes than that 
of property. It is felf-fufficient to anfwer 
all their purpofes, and to produce all that 
great good which this nation experiences 
therefrom. It is a fuppofition of inhuma- 
nity, I hope, inapplicable to thefe people, 
that thev fliould wiih to make Haves of 
their Negroes, merely for the fake of fla- 
very ^ and if it ifhould appear, that there is 
no fuch law exifting in America, as the 
law of llavery, confidered as fuch, I fliould 
infer that the contrary prefumption was 
fitteft to be entertained and received. The 
law refpefting Negroes there, my Lord, is 
the law of property, confentaneous to the 
law of England. By this law they are, 
made real eftate, for the purpofe of defcent, 
and goods and chattels quoad the payment 
of debts. This is the original and funda- 
mental law concerning Negroes. I do not 
remember ever to have feen the word Sla- 
very made ufe of, in any law, of any co- 
lony, in America. I admit that Ne- 
groes 



■[ 57 ] 

Eroes are there termed flaves : but I will 
tell your Lordfliip why. In the criminal 
laWj where they become neceffarily the 
objecls of puniihment, it is eflential that 
they fhould have fome defcriptive name 
or title given to them. It is for this rea- 
fon, therefore, that they are there, and 
there only fo called. As they had been 
already defined to be property, as Negroes, 
it could not be faid that, if property fhould 
ftrike his mafter, property ihall be puniih- 
ed 5 but it is faid, that if a fiave fhould 
ftrike his mafter, this flave ihall be punifti- 
ed accordingly. Now in the antient law 
of England, my Lord, when flavery was 
part of the conftitution, your Lordfliip 
knows, that not only the villein was de- 
fcribed, but the law of villenage or bond- 
age was alfo known and laid down. In 
the laws of America, the flave is made 
mention of, for the reafon afligned ; but 
the law of flavery, however impliedly, is 
no where exprefsly to be found, 

H But 



[ 58 ] 

Biit here, my Lord, I mufl beg 
leave to make a fhort digreflion, inten- 
tionally to wipe off an imputation, which 
by one of the plaintiff's counfel was 
thrown on the owners and poffeffors of 
Negroes in America. In the courfe of his 
pleading, he took occafion to draw a hor- 
rid and a frightful pidure of the barbarity, 
and cruelties, that were exercifed on thefe 
beings in the colonies ; and concluded 
with hoping, that fuch pracStices would for 
ever remain forbidden to this country. 
Your Lord/hip knows, that wherever order 
is, there difcipline mufl enfue. Like ar 
caufe and effed:, they are infeparable one 
from the other. Now it is not to be pre- 
fumed, that an hundred thoufand Negroes 
are to be held in obedience to ten or fifteen 
thoufand owners (for this perhaps may be 
found to be near the average) without fome 
means or methods, which, from their ac- 
cidental application, might fo generally 
operate on their fears, as to produce the 
end required* It is fo in the cafe of the 

navy I 



iC 59 I 

navy ; it is fo in the army of every coun- 
try in the known world. A foldier would 
not put himfelf in the front of a battle, to 
run the rifque of being fhot through the 
head, if he did not know that this would 
be the certain confequence of his defer- 
tion. The fear of the latter gives him 
courage to engage in the former : or, how 
otherwife could fifty officers, perhaps, 
command a regiment of a thoufand men? 
But, my Lord, the defign of this gentle- 
man's groupe of figures, was to induce a 
belief in the Court, that Englifh feelings 
were to revolt at American punifhments. 
As martial law is not the law of Weftmin- 
fter-hall, it is likely that he has not ftudied 
it : but, living in this country, I cannot 
fuppofe him a ft ranger to the effedis of it. 
Who have not been eye-witnelTes to the 
hundreds of ftripes that have been given to 
foldiers on the parade of St. James's ? I 
faw once, my Lord, two failors [who v^ere 
perhaps impreffed men too] under thq 
fente^ce of receiving five hundred laihes 
ii g each, 



[ 6o ] 

each, flogged on their naked backs along 
the fides of thirty-four men of war, lying 
at anchor in the harbour of Spithead. 
Was fuch a punifhment ever known to 
have been inflided on any Negroe in the 
American plantations ? No, my Lord: the 
laws of every colony forbid it : but a 
ftronger law than thefe prevents it, the 
law of felf-intereft. Negroes are ths 
riches of thofe who poffefs them. Land, 
without their aid and afliftance, in order 
to cultivation, is ufelefs, and of no value. 
If their healths are impaired, their labour 
is loft, and profit ceafes. If their lives 
are deftroyed, their places muft be fupplied 
with more difficulty, and at a much 
greater expence, than is commonly fup- 
pofed. The good confequence of which, 
my Lord, is, that the ftate of Negroes, 
cceteris paribus^ in America, is preferable, 
nay infinitely more defireable, than the 
condition of the poorer fort of people re- 
fiding even In this boafted happy ifle. I 
will not fay, my Lord, that this is a rule 
without an exception. There are madmen 

in. 



[ 6i ] 

in all parts of the world, who, as ftich, 
adt diametrically oppofite to their intereft. 
Such there are in America : but your Lord- 
ihip fees, that the obfervation is founded 
on reafon ; and I can affure your Lord- 
ihip, that it is the efFed: of general expe- 
rience. But, my Lord, I cannot quit this 
fubjed: without making all due allowance 
for the learned counfeFs zeal for his client, 
and for the warmth of his youth, which 
probably might have hurried him into this 
ill-grounded and uncalled-for reproach. It 
was ill'grounded, as, I hope, I have pro- 
ved : it was uncalled-for, becaufe not ne- 
ceffary to the queftion ; and could no other- 
wife have been applied or received, than as 
mere argumenta ad pajjiones : which, how- 
ever admiffable to the ears of a jury, to the 
diftinguifhing eye of a court, never fail to 
carry with them their own impropriety. 
But in juftice to the gentleman, in other 
refpeds, i am called upon to fay, that it 
was with infinite pleafure I perceived thofe 
rays of genius and abilities in him, which 
% promife 



[ 62 3 

promife to fliine forth fo confpicuouily, to 
the ornament of this country, and to the, 
honour of Barbadoes, his native ifland, ia 
America ^. 

I come now, my Lord, to fay, that I 
hope it will not be imputed to me as va- 
nity, that I have ventured to fuggeft what 
might in part have led the ideas of thofe 
great and wife men, the Lord Chancellours 
Talbot and Hard wick, to the conclufion 
which they have drawn, namely, that Ne-^ 
groes in this country do not become free. 
I was encouraged in the undertaking, by 
the greatnefs of their authority. I was 
enlightened in the purfuit, by the evidence 
of their opinion. I thought myfelf jufli- 
fied in refting their chief reafons and mo- 
tives on the principles of property ^ and I 
will produce the opinion itfelf, as the war- 
rant of my juftification : 

'^ We are of opinion. That a flave, by 

** coming from the Wefl Indies, either 

** with or without his mafter, to Great- 

^* Britain or Ireland, doth not beconie 

* This was a Mr, Alleyne. 

'* free^ 



C 63 ] 

^^ free ; and that his mailer's property or 
*^ right in him is not thereby determined 
*^ or varied 1 and baptifln doth not bellow 
*^ freedom on him, nor make any altera- 
*^ tion in his temporal condition in thefs 
** kingdoms : We are alfo of opinion, that 
** the mailer may legally compel him to 
*^ return to the plantations \h\. 

'' P. York. 

Jan. 24, 1729. c^ n n^ 

*• C. Talbot. 

Upon this opinion, my Lord, I fhall 
make no other remark, than that right and 
property feem to be the obvious ground and 
foundation of it, or the hinges whereupon 
the whole is made to hang and to turn. 

But, my Lord, I will now admit, that, 
what is held to be law, is at variance with 
this opinion. It is laid down *^ that a 
*' Slave or Negroe, the inflant he lands in 

[i»] This opinion was repeated by Lord Hard wick, 
fitting as Chancellour, twenty years after \t had been 
given, with additional afTurances, and under the fuUeil 
convidion of its ilricl eonformity to the law. ■ ■ 

*^ England, 



[ 64 3 

" England, becomes a freea^an/* that is, 
*^ the law will proted: him in the enjoy- 
** ment of his perfon and his property -, 
'^ yet with regard to any right which the 
** mafler may have acquired to the perpe- 
^' tual fervice of John or Thomas, this will 
*^ remain exadly in the fame ftate as be- 
'* fore.'' The interpreters of this law, my 
Lord, may be right in point of reafon ; 
but, I fabmit it, that they are wrong in 
point of /aw[i]. The cafe is this, my Lord: 
feeing that Negroes are human creatures, 
it would feemingly follow that they fhould 
be allowed the privileges of their nature, 
which, in this country particularly, are in 
part the enjoyment of perfon and pro- 
perty. Now,^rom hence a relation is in- 
ferred, that has not the leaft colour of 
exiftence in law. A Negroe is looked upon 

[/] It is faid. Lex eft fumma ratio, I am forry that 
fo excellent a rule of law ihould admit of contra- 
<3i£tion ; and I vvifh that this was the only inflance of 
an exception : but, let it be confidered, . whether our 
Game laws,, our Marriage adls, and, for the moft part, 
the penal laws of this country, cum multis al'ils quce^ ^r, 
are not contrary both to reafon and nature. 

to 



[ 65 ] 

to be the fervant of his mafter ; but by 
what authority is the relation of fervant 
and majler created ? Not by the authority 
of the law, however it may be by the 
evidence of reafon. By the law, the re- 
lation is, as Negroe and Owner : he is 
made matter of trade ; he is an article of 
commerce, he is faid to be property ; he 
is goods, chattels,, and efFeds, veftable and 
vefted in his owner. This, my Lord, is 
the law of England, however contra- 
didory to, or fubverfive of, the law of 
reafon [i]. 

Now as to the faftof property in Negroes, 
without exception to this kingdom or limi- 
tation to other countries, I am fupported 
in opinion by the authority of the learned 
Judge Blackftone ^ though he afcribes the 
rife of this property to a fource very differ- 
ent from me. In the chapter of, Title to 

\h\ " It is laid down," fays Judge Blackftone, that 
'' a6ls of parliament contrary to reafon are void : but 
" if the parliament will pofitively enad a thing to be 
" done which is unreafonable, I know of no power that 
^^ can controul it."— — V. his Gomm, Vol. I, p- 91. 

I things 



, [ 66 ] 

things perfonal by occupancy, he fays, 
" As In the goods of the enemy, fo alfo 
** in his perfon, a man may acquire a fort 
/* of qualified property, by taking him a 
** prifoner in war, at leaft till his ranfom 
'* be paid. And this doftrlne feems to have 
** been extended to Negroe fervants, who 
** are purchafed when captives, of the na- 
** tions with whom they are at v/ar, and 
*^ continue therefore in fome degree the 
^^ property of their majiers (he {hould have 
*^ rather faid owners) who buy them J' Her© 
then he refers to the law of nations, for 
the eftablifhment of that which I appeal 
to the law of England for. Now, although 
the law of nations might have been a good 
ground to reft the municipal law of this 
country upon, and might have ferved as a 
preamble to, or reafon for, an adl of parlia- 
ment ; yet it is not within my conception, 
how, in fuch an internal concern as this is, 
the law of nations could have been the law 
itfelf. For example, if in the return to 
the writ of Habeas Corpus in this cafe, it 
had been fet forth;, that Negroe fervants arq 

pur- 



[ ^1 ] 

purchafed when captives of the nations 
with whom they are at war, and therefore 
the law of nations gives their mafters a 
property in their perfons ; would your 
Lordfhip have thought this a lawful plea 
for the remanding of Somerfet ? If not, 
your Lordfhip finds that the fad: of pro- 
perty is admitted by the learned Judge, 
without the proper foundation of law to 
fupport it. But he proceeds to fay, 
*' though, accurately fpeaking^t\i2.t property 
confifts rather in the perpetual fervice, 
than in the body or perfon of the captives." 
Accurately fp caking y my Lord, I join iflue 
with the learned Judge: but, legally fpeak^ 
ingy the law is as he had ftated it to be. 
Thofe who fpeak accurately reafon from 
the real nature of Negroes, and draw their 
conclufions from thence : the Lords Tal- 
bot and Hardvvick fpoke legally, and drew 
their opinions from the fountain -head of 
law. Befides, my Lord, I conceive it to 
be impoffible that the law fliould be as 
thefe interpreters or reporters have made 
it to be 5 becaufe the refult of it is plain- 
I 2 incon-» 



[ 68 j 

inconfiftency, and pofitlve abfurdity. If 
Somerfet is protedled by the law of Eng- 
land in the enjoyment of his perfon and 
property, how, in appeal to common fenfe^ 
can Mr. Steuart's right in him remaia 
exadly in the fame ftate as before ? *^ Yes, 
it may be faid, he has a right to the per- 
petual fervice of him ; for this Is no more 
than the fame ftate of fubjedion for life, 
which every apprentice fubmits to for the 
fpace of feven years, or fometime^ for a 
longer time/' But by what mode or me- 
thod does Mr. Steuart acquire this perpe- 
tual right to his fervice? There is no in- 
denture of apprenticefliip on the part of 
Somerfet to him : there is no written con- 
trad of any fort or kind whatever, there is 
no parole agreement between them, to en- 
force this right of fervice. How Is It to 
be maintained then ? If by the purchafe of 
him, property is the offspring of purchafe; 
and, as fuch, Mr. Steuart claims him. If 
he i& not his property, he has otherwife no 
right in him, nor to his fervlces ; and, 
again, if he is his property, who fhall dif- 
feife him thereof ? 

As 



C 69 ] 

As I began 5 my Lord, with making 
a diftindiion between llavery and property, 
and have perfifted in their legal difference 
relatively to the ftate and condition of 
Negroes, fome farther explanation on this 
point may perhaps be looked for and re- 
quired of me. I am fenfible it may ob- 
jedively be faid, that in every kind of 
flavcry there is an included degree of pro- 
perty, niore or lefs limited or extended^ 
and that this kind of property therefore in 
Negroes is but an accumulated degree of 
flavery : fo that the diftindtion I have 
made is a diftindtion v^uthout a difference, 
and a mere contentioufnefs about words. 
But, although I admit the truth of this ob- 
jedtion in part, I muft deny, in the whole, 
its application to the principles of my ar- 
gument. Slavery, my Lord, is that ftate 
of fubjedtion, which mankind, by force or 
otherwife, acquire the one over the other. 
In every fociety therefore where this ftate of 
fubjedlion prevails, the objedt and fubjedt 
of thofe laws neceffary for the regulation 
thereof are, what? are human nature it/elf. 
I Let 



[ 70 ] 

Let It be conficlered then whether human 
nature is either the objedt or fubjed: of the 
lav/s of England, refpefting the ftate and 
condition of Negroes, And here, my 
Lord, I beg leave to alTert, that the appeal I 
have already made to thofe laws maintains 
the contrary matter of fadt, with the unde- 
niable proof of felf-evidence. But it may 
again be urged, that authority, however 
r.efped;able, is not the teft of truth ; and 
therefore, fays the difputant, (hew me the 
reafon, the Cur, the ^lare^ the ^amob" 
rem, of thefe laws. To which, in the lan- 
guage and poftulate of the Greek Philofo- 
pher, I reply ; that^ as matter of fad: is the 
Ao^ w $-2? of my argument, beyond this, 
it is not incumbent on me to extend my 
enquiries. And yet, my Lord, a refearch 
of this nature being perhaps founded upon 
no impertinent or unmeaning curioiity, the 
fuggeftions even of fancy and imagination 
may not be here undeferving your Lord- 
ihip's attention ; and as fuch the fubjed is, 
in this view, of courfe not unworthy my 
notice* It being then evidently the will, 

it 



r 71 1 

It is not to be prefumed, till the contrary 
appears, that it was the effe£t alfo of the 
wifdom of parliament, that Negroes un- 
der the law ihould not be confidered as 
human beings -^ and therefore I am led to 
furmife that this determination of the Le- 
glllature might have arifen from one or 
the other of two motives or confiderations : 
the one phyficaU the other poUtical. With 
refped then to the phyficai motive, your 
Lord {hip need not be told how much the 
origin of Negroes, the caufe of that re- 
markable difference in complexion from 
the reft of mankind, and the woolly co- 
vering of their heads fo fimilar to the fleece 
of fheep, have puzzled and perplexed the 
Naturalifts of all countries for ages paft. 
It was a fubjed of the deepeft refledion to 
the great and learned Mr. Boyle; and what 
could engage his divine abilities, without 
fatisfadion either to liimfelf or others, 
is likely to remain among thofe arcana of 
nature that are not to be revealed to human 
underftanding. But, although thefe phas- 
nomena in nature are not to be accounted 

for. 



[ 72 ] 

for, and therefore admit of no principle of 
law inferible from them ^ yet their very 
incomprehenfiblenefs, when compared with 
other circumftances more known and bet- 
ter underftood, may ferve to this end, as fo 
many leffer weights in the fcales of greater 
probability. Now, my Lord, it is an 
opinion unwerfally received, that human 
nature is iiniverfally the fame: but I fhould 
apprehend that this was a proportion rather 
taken for granted, than admitted to be 
proved : for although the proper ftudy of 
mankind is man, and therefore the univer- 
fality of foch an opinion is prima facie evi- 
dence of its truth I yet, it is to be obferved, 
that, of all other ftudies, the fcience of 
man has been leaft of all cultivated and 
improved. Man only, who examines all 
Nature elfe, ftands unexamined byhimfelf. 
If v/e look into the vegetable and mineral 
kingdoms of this world, we fhall perceive 
a fcrutiny made in them the mod 
nice, accurate, and comprehenfive ^ we 
fhall find thefe grand divifions of nature 

arranged 



[73 ] 

arranged in clalTes, orders, kinds, and 
forts : we fliall contemplate fyftems mo- 
rally perfect. If v^c take a viev/ of the 
animal kingdom below ourfelves, we fliall 
be witneffes there alfo of the fame order, 
regularity, and perfedlion. V7hy then is 
human nature exempt from this difqoiii- 
tion and arrangement ? Are men afraid to 
turn their eyes upon themfelves, left they 
behold themfelves in the mirror of truth ? 
Or is it pride, or vanity, that caufes this 
negledt? Yes, men would be angels, angels 
would be gods, fays Mr. Pope [/] ; and 
yet man, as Dr. Lifter obferves [m'], is as 
very a quadruped as any animal on earth ^ 
and whofe adions are mo ft of them refolva- 
ble into inftindt, notwithftanding the prin- 
ciples which cuftom and education have 
fuperinduced. Of other animals then, it 
is well known J there are many kinds ^ each 
kind having its proper j^^aVj- fubordinate 
thereto : but man is one kind of animal^ 
and yet, v/ithout diftindioa of fpecies, 

[/] Vid. his EiTay on Man. 
[m'] Vid, his Journ, to P::ris. 

K • univerfally^ 



[ 74 ] 

univerfally the fame. Does not this feem to 
break in upon and unlink that great chain 
of Heaven, which in due gradation joins 
and unites the whole with all its parts ? 
May it not be mere perfedive of the fyftem 
to fay, that human nature is a clafsy com- 
prehending an order of beings, of which 
man is the genus ^ divided into diftindt and 
feparate^/>mVj- of men? All other fpecies 
of the animal kingdom have their marks of 
diftinftion: why Ihould m,an be univerfally 
indifcriminate one to the other ? 

The great Mr. Locke fays \n\ that rea- 
fon is fuppofed to make the eharafteriftic 
difference between man and beafts : but^ 
what is the charad:erfiic that diftinguifhes 
man from man ? That there may and fhould 
be fuch a diflindion, I have already en- 
deavoured to ihew; and I am apt to think 
that this is a queilion not without its 
anfwer. The learned Dr. Hutchinfon \o'\ 
has demonftrated the exiftence of.^ ?noral 
fenfe in, and peculiar to, human nature ^ 

[»] Vid. his Efiay on Human Underilandlng. 
[o^ Vid, his Moral Phiiofophy. 

which 



[ 75 ] 

which as it ferves eflentially to diftinguKh 
man from beafts, and to raife him from 
the tenth to the ten thoufandth link of the 
chain, fo is it, in my humble apprehenfion, 
an evident criterion of the fpecific differ- 
ence between man and man. Now Mr. 
Locke, fpeaking of reafon as that faculty 
whereby man is diilinguiihed from beafts, 
fays, that beads have reafon in common 
with men ; in which however he is to be 
under flood, that beads poffefs the faculty, 
and in fome meafure have the ufe, of reafon; 
but man's fuperiority over beafts confifts in 
the pov/er of exerting that faculty, and in 
the compound ratio of its exertion. As 
beafts therefore have the faculty of reafon, 
and it is the exertion in degree of that 
faculty (particularly in obtaining abftradt 
ideas) that creates the great difference be- 
tween man and beafts : fo by the fame 
parity of reafoning, the moral fenfe being a 
faculty of the human mind common to all 
men, the capacity of perceiving moral re- 
lations, the power of exercifing that facul- 



[ 76 ] 

ty, and the compound ratio of Its exercife, 
is that which makes the grand difference 
and diftindion between man and man. 
All nature, my Lord, which is the art of 
God, Is wifely fitted and adapted to that ufe 
and purpofe for which it was ordained; 
and the fame obfervation is to be made even 
in the art of man. A flea is not lefs per- 
fed than an elephant becaufe of its fize: 
neither is the cup that holds a pint lefs 
compleat than the veffel that contains an 
hundred gallons -, when both are full, the 
end for which both were defigned is an- 
fwered and fulfilled. The ufe then to be 
made of this dodrine, my Lord, is, that 
as experience, obfervation, and experiment, 
are the foundations upon v/hich all fpecu- 
lative philofophy Is raifed ; fo, from expe- 
rience and obfervation, I judge that the 
truth of this hypothefis m.ay be very clearly 
proved and demonftrated. Nov/, in order 
to this, it is neceffary to have recourfe to 
the hiftories of nations : to read, to exa- 
mine, and compare them, one with the 
other. To obferve the moral improvements 

2 had 



C n ] 

had by them, to remark the fecial virtues 
that prevail 5 and this will bring me to the 
accounts that have been given of Negroes 
(for hiftories they have none of their ov^n) 
and confequently back to the fubjed of this 
addrefs to your Lordfliip. But, my Lord, 
forbearing to trouble your Lordihip with a 
detail of thefe accounts, I iliall, referring 
them to your Lordfhip's memory, content 
myfelf with the bare mention of a few- 
fads only [/>]. 

Mr. 

[/)] In looking into Mr* Hume's EfTays, particularly 
the one of national charaSfers (which I had never ktn 
till after the above argument was finifhed) I was made 
happy to obferve the ideas of fo ingenious a writer cor- 
refponding v/ith my own : but as we differ in fome re- 
fpe61s, and much of what I have fuggeifed has been not 
at all taken notice of by him, I fhall beg leave to infert 
here what he has faid upon the fubje(Sf , '' There is," 
fays he, " fome reafon to think, that all nations, which 
live beyond the polar circles, or betwixt the tropics, 
are inferior to the reft of the fpecies^ and are utterly inca- 
pable of all the higher attainments of the human mind.'* 
Upon which he has the foilovvnng note : " I am apt to 
fufpecSl the Negroes, and in general ail the other fpecies 
of men (for there are feur or five different kinds) to be 
naturally inferior to the whites." Now I do not appre- 
Jiend, that, in order to have different ^^t/V^ of men, it is 

at 



C 78 ] 

Mr. Guthrie^ in his account of Africa 
from the tropic of Cancer to the Cape of 
Good Hope, fays, ** The hiftory of this 
continent is little known, and probably 

affords 

at all neceflary to have four or five different kinds, I in- 
fer, that there is but one genus or izVirf'of man (under the 
term mankind) fubordinate to which there are feveral 
forts or fpecies of men, differing from each other upon 
the principle that I have afligned \ and, as, Hudibras 
fays. 

If one will do. 

What need of two r 

Befides, it is feemingly a lefs fyflematical arrangement. 
But he proceeds to fay, " There never was a civilized 
nation of any other complexion than white, nor even 
any individual eminent either in action or fpeculation. 
No ingenious manufactures amongll them, no arts, no 
fciences. On the other hand, the moft rude and bar- 
barous of the whites, fuch as the antient Germans, or 
the prefent Tartars, have ftill fomething eminent about 
them, in their valour, form of government, or fome 
other particular. Such a uniform and conilant dif- 
ference could not happen, in fo many countries and 
ages, if nature had not made an original diJiiyiSiion 
betwixt thefe breeds of men. Not to mention our 
colonies, there are Negroe flaves difperfed all over 
Europe, of which none ever difcovered any fymptoms 
of ingenuity j though low people without education 
will ftart up among us, and diflinguifh themfelves in 
every profeilion. In Jamaica indeed they talk of one 



Negros. 



C 79 1 

affords no materials which deferve to ren- 
der it more io. We know from the an- 
tients, who failed a con fiderable way round 
the coafts, that the inhabitants were in 
the fame rude Jituation near 2000 years ago 
in which they are at prtfeiit ; that is^ 
they had nothiiig of humanity about them 
but the form. This may either be account- 
ed for by fuppofing, that nature has placed 
feme infuperable barrier between the na- 

Negroe as a man of parts and learning; but, 'tis likely he 
is admired for very ilender accomplifbments, like a parrot 
who fpeaks a few words plainly.'' Thus Mr. Hume 
marks the difference betwixt the feveral fpecies of men, 
by their natural capacity or incapacity of exerting in 
degree the rational powers, or faculties of the under- 
Handing ; which is the diftindion that Mr. Locke 
makes between man and brutes, I diilinguifli man 
from man by the moral fenfe or moral powers 5 and 
although a Negroe is found, in Jamaica or elfewhere, 
ever fo fenfible and acute ; yet if he is incapable of 
moral fenfaticns, or perceives them only as beafts d<5 
fimple ideas, without the power of combination, in or- 
der to ufe (which I verily believe to be the cafe) it is sl 
mark that diflinguifhes him from the man who feels and 
is capable of thefe moral fenfations, who krovv's their 
application and the purpofes of them, as fufficiently, as 
the Negroe himfelf is didinguifbed from the highef!; 
fpecies of brutes « 

tives 



[ 8o ] 

tives of this divifion of Africa and the in- 
habitants of Europe; or that the former, 
being fo long accuftomed to a favage man- 
ner of life, and degenerating from one age 
to another, at length became altogether in- 
capable of making any progrefs in civility 
or fcience. It is very certain that all the 
attempts of the Europeans, particularly of 
the Dutch at the Cape of Good Hope, have 
been hitherto ineffedtual for making the 
leail impreffion on thefe favage mortals, or 
giving them the leaft inclination or even 
idea of the. European manner of life." 

All other writers on this fubjedl agree in 
thefe relations, or furnifh others fimilar to 
them : nor have I been able to find one au- 
thor, by whom I could difcover that there 
was any fort of plan or fyftem of morality 
conceived by thefe tribes of Africa, or 
praftifed among them. Their barbarity to 
their children debafes their nature even be- 
low that of brutes. Their cruelty, to their 
aged parents is of a kin to this. They 
have a religion, it is true : but it is a religion 

w^hich 



[ 8i ] 

which feems the ejfFedt only of outward 
impreffions, and in which neither the head 
nor the heart have any concern. They 
have laws founded on principles, which 
plainly prove the defective ufe of the 77ioral 
fenfe, as appears in this inftance among 
the reft. Their Judges are judges and 
executioners at one and the fame time. 
When a criminal is condemned by them, 
the Chief Juftice firfl: ftrikes him v/ith a 
club, and then all the reft of the Judges 
fall upon him, and drub him to death j 
and neither this, nor any other of their 
cuftoms, can time make any alteration 
in, nor precept nor example amend. In- 
deed, if it were otherwife, it would per- 
haps be unnatural : for the Ethiopian can- 
not change his fkin, nor the Leopard his 
fpots. From this then, my Lord, I infer, 
that the meafure of thefe beings may be 
as compleat, as that of any other race of 
mortals I filling up that fpacein life beyond 
the bounds of which they are not capable 
of pafling ', differing from other men, not 

L in 



[ 82 ] 

In kindy but in /pedes -, and verifying that 
unerring truth of Mr. Pope, that 
*' Order is Heaven's firft law ; and this confeft, 
*« Some are, and muft be, greater than the reft :'* 

The application of what has been faid, is, 
that the Legiflature, perceiving the corporeal 
as v^ell as intelledlual differences of Negroes 
from other people,, knowing the irreclaim- 
able favagenefs of their manners, and of 
courfe fuppofing that they were an inferior 
race of people, the conclufion was, to fol- 
low the commercial genius of this country, 
in enading that they (hould be confidered 
and diftinguifhed (as they are) as articles of 

its trade and commerce only [^]. 

Thus, 

[q\ There are two cafes referred to in Mr. Har- 
grave^s argument, (p. 52. and p. 54.) which are not only 
fully explanatory of the above principles, but fupport 
the opinion of the Lord Chancellours, Hard wick and 
Talbot ; and are in dire(St proof of the whole of my 
argument. The cafes I allude to, are thofe of Butts 
and Penny, and Gelly againft Cleve. The firft was 
an adion of Trover for 1 Negroes ; and there was a 
fpecial verdi(5l, &c. The Court held, that Negroes being 
ufually bought and fold amongji Merchants^ and being in- 
fidels^ there might be a property in them fufficient to 
maintain the adion. In t;ic fecond cafe, the Court is 

faid 



[ 83 ] 

Thus, my Lord, borne on the wings of 
Fancy, and led by Imagination's wily train, 
have I ventured in untrodden paths to 
trefpafs on philofophic ground ; to which 
offence, however, pleading guilty at your 
Lordfhip's bar, I fubmit to the juflice of 
the fentence, be your Lordfhip's judgment 
whatever it may. 

But having now difcufled the phyfical 
motive, which, as it is apprehended, might 
have occafioned the civil exiflence, if I may 
fo fay, of Negroes in this kingdom j the/'i?- 
///'/V^/ confideration propofed comes next in 
the order of enquiry. It mufl be obferved, 
niy Lord, that if the caufe already afTigned 

faid to have held, that Trover will lie for a Negroe 
boy, becaufe Negroes are Heathens -y and therefore a 
man may have property in them ; and the Court with- 
out averment will take notice, that they are Heathens, 
Now upon two judicial determinations are the very 
reafons of my argument held and alledged. Negroes 
are infidels : Negroes are Heathens : of courfe unpofTefTed 
of thofe religious and moral truths, which the Gofpel 
impreiTes upon all minds capable of receiving them ; 
and therefore the law, regarding the inferior ftate of 
their nature, has confidered them merely as property 
bought and fold among merchants* 

L 2 be 



[ 84 ] 

be the real caufe, whatever is to be advanced 
on this head, is ufelefs and fuperfluous. 
Both caufes cannot be true at one and the 
fame time. They are meant and muft be 
received in the alternative ; or as the two 
firings of Nimrod's bow, of which if 
either failed, the other fupplied the want ; 
and of whom Mr. Pope thus fpeaks : 
*' Bold Nimrod firft the favage chace began, 
" A mighty Hunter, and his ga?ne was man.'' 

Now the phyfical motive fuppofes a differ- 
ence of fpecies among men, and an infe- 
riority of that fpecies in Negroes : whereas 
the political confideration, on the other 
hand, infers an univerfal famenefs in hu- 
man nature 3 that is to fay, in fadt, that 
Englilhmen are Negroes, and Negroes are 
Englifhmen, to all natural mt^nis and pur- 
pofes. For what fignifies the black fkin, 
and the flat nofe, as the great Baron 
Montefquieu would infinuate [r] ? And yet 
methinks, if the Baron had had a black 
fkin, and a flat nofe, the world never would 

[r] Vid. his Spirit of Laws, vol. i. p. 34i» 

have 



[ % 1 

have had the benefit of his Efprif des 
Loix. Upon this ground then, the queftion 
that arifes is, what could have given rife to 
this degradation and debafement of human 
nature ? If thefe our fellow-creatures were 
inftruments necefiary for the colonizing of 
America, and to this end compulfory laws 
were expedient alfo, why were thefe laws 
not made fuitable and fuited to their na- 
ture ? Why were Negroes ordained a mor^ 
tuiim vadunty inflead of a viviim vadum, 
(fo to fpeak for comparifon fake) to thofe 
under whofe dominion they came ? Might 
not the laws of villenage have been reviv- 
ed quoad them ? Might not other laws of 
ilavery have been enadted for their govern- 
ment ? 

Here is it then that policy, which is the 
objecft of my difcovery, muft have inter- 
vened. Now the planting of the colonies 
opening with the i6th century, and con- 
sequently commencing nearly with the 
reign of James I. it appears, that during 
the reigns of this race of kings, their cul- 
g tivation 



[ 86 ] 

tlvatlon and improvement were fo rapidly 
had, that, from a ftate of infancy, before 
the end of the reign of Charles II. they 
had grown up and increafed to the vigour of 
manhood. It is in this period of hiftory, 
therefore, my Lord, that I am to fearch 
for, and to trace, the caufe of this allotted 
condition of Negroes : but, as it cannot 
be expeded that I fhould here enter into 
the particulars of thofe times, fo neither is 
it necelTary to my purpofe. A fingle incon- 
trovertible obfervation will ferve to reft the 
whole of what I have to offer on this fub- 
jefl: ; and which is this : that from the 
a/pl^a of the reign of James I. to the omega 
of the reign of James II. fo en/lave, was 
the fixed principle and uniform plan of go-^ 
vernment. This then at once accounts for 
the toleration of a meafure, fo inconfiftent 
with the principles of the conftitution of 
this country : but the reafon upon which 
the meafure was grounded is not fo im- 
mediately obvious. From things that are 
more known, things that are lefs known 
muft be deduced. Now it is a maxim in 

politics^ 



[ 87 ] 

politics, that to obtain an end, diredt means 
are not always to be purfued, or rather 
that indireB means are allowed to be prac- 
tifed; and this will lead me to mention two 
queftions that have been already ftated. 
Why were not the laws of villenage en- 
forced ? or why were not other laws of 
llavery enafted for the government of thefe 
people ? The anfwer is plain ; thefe were 
edged toob, which the complexion of the 
times would not fuffer the ufe of. Enough 
was the plan of government expofed, 
though hid under the cloak of religion. 
Such a ftep would have left it naked, and 
without a covering. Policy therefore 
prevented that which the jealoufy of the 
people would have forbidden. In vain 
would have been the argument, that thefe 
laws were intended for operation in the 
new v/orld of America. Ever to begin at 
the extremes is a well-known rule in the 
art of attaining to defpotifm. The more 
diftant the defign, the deeper laid is the 
fcheme, and the more fure in its confe- 
quences. As in the body natural, even 
fo is it in the body politic. The difeafe 

that 



[ 88 ] 

that lays hold of the toe, often finds Its way 
to the heart. Gradual encroachments by 
imperceptible movements are the moft dan- 
gerous fymptoms. They call oiF attention 
to remedies, and lull fufpiclon to fleep. 
But may all lovers of liberty ever have their 
eyes open and awake to this defpotic pro- 
cefs ! He that would tyrannife in America 
or abroad, awaits only the opportunity of 
becoming a tyrant at Home ; but thank 
God, my Lord, the prefent tim.es with us, 
of all others, give leaft occafion for any 
apprehenlions of this fort. But to return. 
Inftead then of that Demon Slavery being 
called in to prefide over Negroes, Trade, 
the guardian angel of England, was made 
the ruler of them. This I attribute to 
policy; which, however feemingly more 
conflitutional, was not lefs favourable to 
the ruling principle of the Crown. I 
have already admitted, that to erefl: cor- 
porations, and to grant Letters Patent for 
the purpofes of trade, are in the Crown 
its undoubted prerogative ; but, confi- 
dering Negroes as human creatures, and 
upon a level with ourfelves, I fubmit it to 

your 



[ 89 ] 

your Lordfliip, that the Crown had no right 
to make Haves of them^ whatever the un- 
controulable power of an aft of parliament 
might do : and yet Charles the Second, by 
his Charter only to the Duke of York, 
enjlaved whole nations of thefe people. 
The apology, I apprehend, for this, my 
Lord, will be 5 that neither this Charter, 
nor any other Grant, have ever conceived 
Negroes in this light and view^ ^ as, relation 
being thereunto had, will more fully ap- 
pear [j]. If fo, my Lord, two things come 
out in proof: prefumpfively^ that the 
Crown had no right of itfelf to make 
ilaves of Negroes, or it would, in thofe 
days at leaft, have exerted it; pojitively, 
by thefe authorities themfelves, that Ne- 

[j] See alfo the AlTiento, or ContracSl: made with the 
South Sea Company, for fupplying the Spaniards with 
Negroes by treaty of commerce between Great Britain 
and Spain, in the year 1 7 13-14 ; wherein they are con- 
lidered as dutyable commodities, and named merely as 
matters of merchandize ; and if thus conceived of at 
this time, and on fo folemn an occafion as a Treaty of 
Peace, by what new law or magic is it that they are 
now become the fubjeds of the Crown of England, and 
intitled to the benefit of the Habeas Corpus ? 

M groes 



[ 90 ] 

groes are not confidered as flaves under the 
idea of flavery, but merely as matter of 
commercial property, and articles of the 
trade of this country. 

If now, my Lord, I have fupported the 
doftrine which I took upon me to evince, 
and have fatisfadtorily fhewn, that property 
is the gift of adion in this cafe, thereby 
proving that Mr. Steuart may of courfe le- 
gally compel Somerfet to return to the 
Plantations, I fhall leave its decifion to 
your Lordftiip, on a quotation of your ow^n 
words: ^^ It is not my bufinefs to alter the 
** laWj or to make it, but to find the law.'* 

It remains then only to obferve, that 
if Somerfet is the legal property of 
Steuart, he, Som.erfet, cannot legally 
be entitled to the writ which he has 
fued out in aid of relief. The writ 
of Habeas Corpus is a writ of right given 
to the fubjedts of the Crown of Eng- 
land, for the fecurity of their liberties. If 
Somerfet can fall under this predicament 
and defcription, he is open to the benefits 
I that 



[ 91 ] 

that may arlfe therefrom ; but if the law 
has already fixed the ^at of property on 
him, I apprehend it is a legal exception 
to the writ, and his right is foreclofed 
thereby. 

Having faid thus much, my Lord, on 
one fide of the queftion, I do not mean to 
conceal my fentiments on the other. My 
aim is, ^to eftablifh the truth : my wifh, 
that what is right ihould be done. What- 
ever then is here the refult of my reflec- 
tipnSj to obtain the end I propofe, is ne- 
ceffary to your Lordfhip's information. 

When this matter, therefore, was firft 
in agitation, it ftated itfelf thus generally 
to my comprehenfion : that as it was a 
cafe which exifting for two centuries and 
upwards, and never receiving finally any 
judicial determination^ it had better re-* 
niain in the fituation it was. It compared 
itfelf to me with fome cafes of royal pre- 
rogative, and of parliamentary privilege, 
which vv^ere excellent in theory^ but fubjeft 
to inconvenience in practice ; and whofe 
M Z beft 



[ 92 ] 

beft and fafeft law was that of fufpenfe : 
but» my Lord, when I found that the cafe 
v/as to be argued, and the judgment of 
the Court of King's Bench taken there- 
upon, my hopes were, that, if it was 
poffible to counteradl the law of the land, 
the decifion would be in favour of the 
Negroe : for although the knowledge of 
their being free might fpirit them up to 
infurreftions in America, yet it would put 
a flop to their importation here by their 
owners, and they would be more ufefully 
kept and employed in the colonies to which 
they belonged. On the contrary determi- 
nation too, my Lord, it being folemnly 
adjudged that Negroes in this country were 
not free, I forefaw that this fatal confe- 
quence might follow : that the trade from 
Africa to America would be diverted from 
Africa to England ; and Negroes, in pro- 
cefs of time, would be fold in Smithfield 
market, as horfes and cattle now are* 
Each farmer would have his Negroe to 
drive his plough, each manufacturer his 

flavQ 



[ 93 J 

flave under his own controul ; and Ame- 
rica that was conquered in Germany, as 
was the faying of a very-great man, would 
become America ruined in England. 

A great deal, my Lord, was urged by 
the learned counfel, of the edifts of France, 
relative to Negroes : but it does not occur 
to my memory that this, among the reft, 
was taken notice of. It m^^y be, that I am 
mifinformed with refpe£l to the fad: ; but 
I will tell your Lordfhip how I came by 
it. I have been myfelf, my Lord, a tra- 
veller through every province of France^ 
and during my tour I never had opportu- 
nity of feeing more than two Noirs (or 
Blacks) as they are there called; one of 
which was at Marfeilles, the other at Bour- 
deaux, the two chief ports of trade with 
the American colonies of that kingdom. 
Knowing therefore the intercourfe with, 
and obferving the fewnefs of thefe people, 
I was led to enquire into the reafon of it 5 
when I was informed, that there was an 
gbfolute edid: of the prefent King of France, 

prohi* 



[ 94 ] 

prohibiting the importation of them into 
that country, upon this political idea, that 
otherwife the race of Frenchmen would, 
in time to come, be changed. Greater 
much, my Lord, is the reafon in this 
country to apprehend this event. It was in 
reprefentation, if not in proof, to your 
Lordfhip, that there were already fifteen 
thoufand Negroes in England ; and fcarce 
is there a flreet in London that does not 
give many examples of that, which, with 
much lefs reafon, had alarmed the fears of 
France. Upon the whole, then, my Lord, 
let America and England look up to your 
Lordfliip, as the man qualified to draw the 
line of propriety between them. To this 
end, let a Bill originate in the Houfe of 
Lords, un^er your Lordfliip's formation : 
let flavery, fo far as property is fuch in 
Negroes, be held in America : let the im- 
portation of them be prohibited to this 
country, with fuch other regulations and 
provifions as your Lordihip fhall fee fit to 
take place. Some centuries back, flavery 



[ 95 1 

was the law, and flaves the objefts of that 
laWj as I obferved before, in this king- 
dom : but civilization has extinguifhed the 
exiflence of both . When America fhall be 
what England is, fome yet undifcovered 
land will become what America is. In 
fhort, my Lord, by this ad you will pre- 
ferve the race of Britons from ftain and 
contamination ^ and you will rightly con- 
fine a property to thofe colonies, upon 
whofe profperity and welfare the inde- 
pendent being of this country refls. 



SAMUEL ESTWICK. 



Portman-S quarts 
Dec. 10, 1772. 



F I M X ,S, 



