Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/emancipationofneOOdavi 



EMANCIPATION 

OF THE 

NEGRO SLAVES 

IN THE 

WEST INDIA COLONIES 

CONSIDERED, 
WITH REFERENCE TO ITS IMPOLICY AND INJUSTICE; 

IN ANSWER TO 

MR. WILBERFORCE'S APPEAL. 

BY THE AUTHOR OF 

A STATEMENT OF THE CLAIMS OF THE WEST INDIA COLONIES 
TO A PROTECTING DOTY AGAINST EAST INDIA SUGAR,' 



No. I. 



LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR WHITMORE AND FENN, 

CHAEING-CROSS. 
1824, 






.710 



IMPOLICY AND INJUSTICE 

OF 

EMANCIPATING 



NEGRO SLAVES. 



What would an intelligent public think and 
say of any man, who, in discussing the religious 
tenets or the political immunities of any of the 
numerous sects that swarm in the sun-shine of 
our latitudinarian system, — of the Quakers, for 
instance, orthe Jumpers, — the Methodists, or any 
other self-styled Evangelical sectarians — -should 
preface his observations with some such over- 
flow of righteous gall as the following : 

' To all the inhabitants of the British Empire who 
' value the favour of God, or are alive to the interests or 
' honour of their country ; to all who have any respect for 

* religion, or any love for consistency, I would solemnly 

* address myself. I call upon them, as they shall here- 

* after answer, in the great day of account, for the use 
' they shall have made of any power or influence with 

* which Providence may have intrusted them, to employ 
' their best endeavours, by all lawful and constitutional 
' means, to discountenance, and, as soon as may be safely 

IJ 



' done, to root out thd system of cant that overspreads the 

* land ; a system of the grossest hypocrisy, of the most 

* heathenish irreligion, of the most unprecedented affec- 
' tation, and flagrant disingenuousness ?' 

Would not all reasonable persons be disposed 
to throw aside such a pamphlet, as the produc- 
tion of an intemperate enthusiast, whose only 
aim must be to excite a spirit of intolerance 
against a particular portion of his fellow-sub- 
jects ? Would they give the writer credit for 
being actuated by the mild spirit of Christianity, 
of which he should declare himself the advocate 
in such a work ? Or if, in the discussion of 
our present subject, we should resort to such 
expedients, could we hope to engage the atten- 
tion of dispassionate readers ? Such, however, 
* mutatis tantum fedihus niimerisque,^ is the lan- 
guage, in which Mr. Wilberforce opens his last 
attack against the West Indian communities, 
by way of prelude to the new measure of 
emancipation to the Negro slaves in the British 
Colonies *. 



* ' To all the inhabitants of the British Empire who 

* value the favour of God, or are alive to the interests or 

* honour of their country ; to all who have any respect 

* for justice, or any feelings of humanity, I would so- 

* lemnly address myself. I call upon them, as they shall 

* hereafter answer, in the great day of account, for the 



We are sorry to observe in his appeal a 
repetition of almost all the epithets, by which 
he has stigmatized the West India Legislatures 
in every speech he has ever delivered in Parlia- 
ment, and in all the nunierous publications of the 
African Institution, whenever ]\e has advocate^ 
any measure affecting the property and cha^ 
racter of the colonies. Yet he declares, that he 
' comes reluctantly forward in this arduous 
' cause, too surely anticipating from experience, 

* that the grossest and most unfounded ca- 

* lumnies will be poured out against him * !' 
Any person unread in the West India contro- 
versies would imagine from this, that Mr. Wil- 
berforce, the mild and temperate advocate of 
his favoured cause, was a most persecuted and 
calumniated individual, whose philanthropic 
character had been loaded with unjust asper- 



' use they shall have made of any power or influence 

* with v/hich Providence njay have Entrusted them, to 
' employ their best endeavours, by all lawful and con- 
' stitutional means, to mitigate, and, as soon as it may 

* be safely done, to terminate the Negro slavery of the 
' British Colonies; a system of the grossest injustice, 
' of the most heathenish irreligion and immorality, of 

* the most unprecedented degradation, and unrelenting 

* cruelty."' — Appeal on behalf ()f tlie Negro Slaves, p. 1. 

* Appeal, p. 7O. 

B 2 



sions, as the result of his disinterested exertions 
on behalf of the Negro race ; — and be led to 
think, that he had himself abstained from the 
calumnies he deprecates in others, while the 
Colonist answered all his reasoning by mere 
clamour and abuse. 

We may venture, however, to say that few 
men have dealt out so hard a measure of per- 
severing obloquy to the institutions he con- 
tends against, and have yet been answered with 
greater forbearance by those, who are the ob- 
jects of his attack. 

Can he have forgotten his own and Mr. 
Stephen's reproaches against the * hypocrisy of 

* the iniquitous laws*,' * the little juntos of slave 

* masters t,' * the white mob,' * the West Indian 
' aristocracy,' * the petty, contumacious law- 

* givers J;' and in this his own last work, 'the 

* white oppressors and the white savages,' &c. 
of the Colonies ? Does he not bear in mind the 
discussions on the Registry Bill, the annual Re- 
ports, and the tracts of the African Institution, 
of which he is the Vice-President and the lead- 
ing Director, wherein so many statements and 
reasonings were advanced with the desire of 



* Reasons for a Registry Bill, p. 43. 
t Defence of the Registry Bill, p. 17. 
J Reasons for a Registry Bill, p. 49. 



establishing against the West Indian Ishinds 
the unfounded charge, of encouraging an un- 
lawful importation of slaves ? 

If it were worth our while, or we were dis- 
posed to recriminate, we should have no dif- 
ficulty in proving, that the public and private 
acts of this association have been wholly adverse 
to the trusts reposed in it ; and that, amongst 
others, which ought to be, and we hope one day 
will be, brought to light, the funds intended for 
the benefit of Africa have been perverted to 
the purpose of printing these very calumnies for 

* DISTHIBUTION IN THE WeST InDIES !* — but WC 

abstain from such a course of retributive cri- 
mination, and only desire is, that the spirit 
and temper of the champions in this ^ great and 
holy cause' should be duly estimated. We are 
entering on a controversy of deep national im- 
portance, (' an awful subj ect,' to use the language 
of Mr. Burke, * or there is none so on this side of 
the grave,') in which not only the security of 
some of the most valuable of the British posses- 
sions, and the lives of many thousand individuals 
are implicated, but the happiness also of that 
class, which appears exclusively to interest the 
feelings of modern philanthropists — the ^Tegro 
slaves themselves. It is to the facts and argu- 
ments of the question more immediately before 
us, that the present observations are addressed. 



9 

Injurious as the attacks upon the character of 
the Colonies may have been, this is not the oc- 
casion for a warm expression of feelings, which, 
howiever justifiable and natural, would only tend 
to embarrass a just cause, and to impede that 
temperate and rational discussion, which is so de- 
sirable. That the subject itself has difficulties, — 
and those of no slight weight, — that every call 
of national interest and individual welfare de- 
mands the most dispassionate and mature de- 
liberation, must have now become the con- 
viction of every man, not wilfully blind to passing 
events :— but these difficulties are rather in- 
creased than obviated, and this deliberation im- 
peded, by intemperate and mutual reproaches, 
which naturally disincline the general class of 
readers from entering into the full merits of 
the case. 

Before, bowever, we proceed to the leading 
purposes of this address, it may be expedient 
to advert to what cannot be otherwise desig- 
nated than the affectation of candour, by which 
the advocates of emancipation endeavour to 
palliate their calumnies against those, who are 
so deeply interested in this cause. The truth 
must be told, and the public must judge 
whether they have met this question in the 
fair spirit of liberality and forbearance ; and for 
this purpose we shall examine one only of 



the many pamphlets, published by Mr. Wil- 
berforce and bis followers : it happens to be the 
first that falls under our notice in a thick 
octavo, bound up with many others ema- 
nating from the same press, and all of which 
afford equally choice specimens of the peculiar 
character of writing to which we allude. It is 
a Report of the African Institution, published 
by order of that society ; and after charging the 
Colonies with a notorious participation in the 
illegal traffic in slaves, with having encouraged 
this ' detestable species of smuggling,' and en- 
tertaining * a general consciousness, that they 

* have a potential resource in the clandestine 

* importation of negroes^;' it boldly declares, 
that * they have every isohere subjected their 

* slavest to a most needless, unjust, and un- 

* merciful aggravation of their lot, peculiar to 

* the British Colonies* 

' The same is the opprobrious truth (it proceeds) as to 

< every other legal reformation, that is necessary to pro- 
' mote the native increase of the slaves, and meliorate 
' their condition. Nothing, in short, has even been 
' ostensibly attempted, but that which the Assemblies 
' have admitted to be impracticable, and which every 

< reflecting mind must perceive to be so J — the protection 

* Reasons for a Registry, p. 31. 

t Ibid, p. vn. 

X Ibid, p. 87. 



8 

' of the slaves against domestic oppression in the exer- 
' cise of the master's power.' 

It then goes on to say, that 

* For this idle purpose mock laws have been made, been 

* laughed at, and forgot*; and men who dare not com- 

* plain, who are incompetent to prosecute, and whose 

* evidence cannot be received in any court against any 

* free person, are referred to the law for redress, when 

* in the bosom of the master's domain they are not swffi- 

* ciently fed, are zcorked to excess, or receive more than 
' a limited number of lashes at any one time. 

* The Assemblies have not only continued, but in 

* some Colonies have very recently originated laws f 
' calculated to perpetuate slavery by obstructing manu- 

* mission.' ' In what country accursed with slavery is this 
' sinking fund of mercy, this favour of the laws to human 

* redemption, taken away ? Where, by an opprobrious 
' reversal of legislative maxims ancient and modern, do 

* the lawgivers rivet, instead of relaxing, the fetters of 

* private bondage, stand between the slave and the libe- 

* rality of his master by prohibiting enfranchisements:}:, 

* and labour as much as in them lies to make that dread- 

* ful odious state of man, which they have formed, eter- 

* nal? Shame and horror must not deter us from re- 

* vealing the truth : it is in the dominions of Great 

* Britain. This foul and cruel abuse of legislative power 
' has been reserved for Assemblies boastful of an English 



* Reasons for a Kegistry, p. 38. 
t Ibid, p. 39. 
: Ibid, p. 42. 



9 

* constitution, and convened by the British crown. Can 
' the case be further aggravated ? Yes; in the obstinate 

* rejection of better principles, in a perverse opposition 

* to the voice of a liberal age, and in the contumacy of 
' these petty lawgivers towards the mother country which 
' protects, and the parliament that has power to control 
' them. Farther aggravation still may seem scarcely 

* possible ; yet such is to be found in the hypocrisy of 

* some of these iniquitous laws. With the fraudulent 
' design of concealing from European eyes their true 
' principle, they lay a tax upon it heavy enough to in- 
' sure, generally speaking, the same effect ; and pretend, 

* that the object is to prevent free coloured persons be- 

* coming chargeable to their parishes or the public. The 

* pretence is not only false, but inconsistent with no- 
' torious truth * : this cruel mockery must enhance the 
' pain of the oppressor f.' 

As if all this were insufficient, it charges 
' the Colonial Legislatures with being adverse, 
' or indifferent, in general, to the cause of 

* Christianity.* * No Act of Assembly,' it 
states, * can be shown, which has redeemed our 
' Islands in any degree from the reproach of 

* their former gross neglect in the restraint of 
' polygamy : on the contrary, laws have been 
' passed aggravating that sin by positive ob- 

* structions to the pious purpose of a master, 

* wlio should desire to reform the manners and 

* Reasons for u Ilcgistry, p. 43. 
t ibid, p. 44. 



10 

* morals of his slaves by the means which Chri- 

* stianity affords. In some of our Colonies, at 

* least, and Jamaica in particular, laws have 

* been passed opposing positive prohibitions to 

* the only attainable means of religious instruc- 

* tion and worship *.* 

This language, from a pen, such as that of 
Carlile or his associates, would scarcely have 
excited a moment's surprise ; but it seems 
scarcely credible, that a community of English 
Gentlemen, some of whom are Members of 
the House of Commons, and all professing to 
have in view the purposes of charity, and of 
civilizing Africa, should have so far forgotten 
what was due to their own character as to 
sanction these calumnies t. 

Yet Mr. Wilberforce, — after such a tissue of 
accusations, deliberately brought against the 
whole of the West Indian communities, and 

* Reasons foi* a Registry, p. 47. 

t \^^e know, that the great body of the Directors and 
Subscribers of the African Institution must have been, 
and perhaps are now, ignorant that such pamphlets as 
these are published under the sanction of their names : 
but they are in no small degree responsible for the 
effects these have produced, so long as they contribute 
to the support of such a Society ; and we appeal to them, 
whether they ought longer to countenance the dangerous 
and intemperate counsels, which influence its measures. 



11 

when, in this his appeal, he assumes to give 
what he calls ' his last finishing tint to the 

* dark colouring * of the picture ' of this * mass 

* of aggravated enormities ;' — after declaring, 
that ' prudence and foresight can effect little 

* in opposition to the stubborn prejudices!, 

* strong passions, and inveterate habits, that 

* prevail in our West Indian Assemblies ;' that 

* he knows not any vice of the system that has 

* been rooted out t, or any material improve- 

* ment that has been adopted, and that these 

* abuses are still existing in all their original 
' force •* — in short, after repeating the worn-out 
diatribes to be found in all his former publica- 
tions, and having exhausted the treasury of his 
censures in this last liberal donative to the 
Colonists, pathetically exclaims that he 'too 

* surely anticipates that the grossest and most 

* unfounded calumnies will be poured out 
' against him § !' 

Gross and unfounded calumnies !* We are 
compelled to throw back the charge, and con- 
fidently appeal to all dispassionate observers, 
whether the imputation attach to the West 



* Appeal, p. 30. 
t Appeal, p. 36. 
+ Appeal, p. 37. 
t^ Appeal, p. ;'j6. 



12 

Indians, or to himself and those with whom he 
acts. Nor can the reader be deceived by the 
smooth and placid caution, which he * presumes 

* to interpose to his fellow-labourers in this 
' great cause, to join with him in treating the 
' character of the West India proprietors with 

* candour and tenderness *.' Mild words and 
gentle these ! by way of epilogue to his * ap- 
' PEAL on behalf of the Negro Slaves' aga'mst 
their Masters, which are to sweeten the bitter 
cup so often forced to the lips of the Colonists, 
to heal the wounds inflicted on them by an un- 
sparing hand, and to secure for the author the 
pious prayer of his readers, as they close the 
book, that this enlightened martyr to the cause 
of the oppressed Africans may meet with the 
same candour, and be treated with the sa7ne 
tenderness, which he declares ' he has ever 

* wished to keep in remembrance and observe 

* in practice !' 

But all this, amiable and candid as it may 
appear, will not obliterate the record of his grave 
and repeated accusations against the Assem- 
blies : these are become matter of history ; 
they have been disseminated both here and in 
the West Indies with fatal activity, and he can- 



* Appeal, p. 76". 



13 

not recede from them. If they are true, let 
it not be said, that the misdeeds of the Colonies 
have been treated with tenderness ; but if un- 
founded, which we hesitate not to declare, 
when did he ever speak and act towards them 
with the * consideration and becominc; can- 
* dour*,* to which he would lay claim ? 

These fair set terms remind us of some 
of the writings of Mr. Stephen, equally calcu- 
lated to establish his claim also to self-devotion 
in the cause of philanthropy. The most re- 
markable of these is a speech, which he deli- 
vered in ISI7, at the annual meeting of the 
African Institution, at the Freemasons* Tavern, 
and afterwards published for the edification of 
those, who mJght not have been fortunate 
enough to hear this noblest declamation of so 
illustrious a teacher of morality. Not the tenth 
part of the epithets applied to the Colonial 
Legislatures in this production could have 
been tolerated in private society ; but we pre- 
sume the atmosphere in which philanthropy 
breathes is an attenuating medium, and has 
the property of imparting a sublimated quality 
to that which, in ordinary cases, 

Boeotum in crasso jurares aere natura. 

Whatever, therefore, under these exhilarating 
influences, proceeds from Mr. Stephen, as an 

* Appeal, p. 77. 



14 

African Director, may be considered the stand- 
ard of Attic refinement and propriety : for in- 
stance, it is very elegant and consistent too, at 
least with his other writings, to accuse those, 
' who have the misfortune,' as Mr. Wilberforce 
says, to be connected with the colonial system, 
of ' malice, venom/ * notorious jacobinism, inhu- 
man spirit of legislation,' ' of acts which it is im- 
possible for an Englishman to read without 
a blush of shame and indignation,' * mon- 
strous conclusions,' * slanderous inferences,' 
' distortion of facts,* * licentiousness of as- 
sertion,' * false statements,' 'insatiable appetite 
for defamation,' 'false pretences,' 'arrant trifling,' 
* strange calumnious tales,' ' audacity,* * ef- 
frontery,' ' rancorous hostility and hatred,' 
'base fanaticism,' 'fell enthusiasm,' &c.* All this 
is no doubt very elegant, consistent, and so on ;• — 
very becoming in a Master in Chancery, to step 
from his official seat, to throw off his judicial 
o-ravity and temper, mount the rostrum at a 
tavern, and, in the true spirit of ^candour and 
tenderness,'' thus to designate a numerous, most 
important, and powerful class of his fellow- 
subjects.-— Very philanthropic all this ! and no 
doubt equally in good taste to address it to the 
ears of His Royal Highness the Duke of Glou- 
cester, who is President of this notable Society, 
and to whose family the Colonists have ever 
* Mr. Stephen's speech passim. 



15 

testified the most unshaken and loyal attach- 
ment. 

His Royal Highness must have been not a 
little startled to hear the " Assemblies and 
their Agents" stigmatized in the following 

* candid and tender' strains: 

' Theirs was the base fanaticism, the fell enthusiasm 
' of an avarice which knew no pity ; which blindly 

* and ferociously pursued its object through every 

* fence, that the laws of nature or of God, the terrors 

* of conscience, or the revoltings of instinctive human 
' sympathy opposed to it. Theirs was the jacobinism, 
' which propagated and maintained, and strove to per- 
' petuate a ferocious anarchy, not in one kingdom or 
' nation, but over a whole continent, the fourth divi- 
' sion of the world. They were the Septembrizers of 
' every season, and of every village ; the confiscators, 
' not of gold and silver, but of bones and sinews, and 

* of the rational will which gives them motion ; the 

* robbers and plunderers, not of churches and national 
' domains, but of fathers and mothers, and wives and 

* husbands, and children and brethren, torn from the 

* arms of their shrieking correlatives, and hurried into 
' interminable bondage. Couthon or Robespierre 

* might have been appalled by the hold of a slave 
' ship; but to the African jacobin its foulest exhala- 
' tions are fragrance, and its deepest groans are music. 

* They remind that sordid enthusiast, that covetous 
' fanatic, only of the great number he has slaved, and 
' on which he has to count his profits per poll in the 

* West Indian shambles *.' 

* Speech, page 9- 



16 

Such the language of this enlightened advocate 
of emancipation ; such the temper which is to 
regulate and control the destinies of so many 
British subjects! To what frightful excesses 
must such a spirit as this transport the ignorant 
and unenlightened population, to whom, through 
the medium of innumerable active agents, it is 
assiduously conveyed ! Thus are they taught 
to estimate the nature of their condition ; and 
dangerous indeed must be the effect of such 
sentiments delivered, perhaps applauded, in the 
presence of a member of the Royal family, and 
many other distinguished individuals ! If the 
good sense of the yet unevangelized portion 
of the community be not interposed to coun- 
teract, to discountenance, to repudiate such 
doctrines, it is clear, that those scenes of revo- 
lutionary carnage, which have but now been so 
providentially averted, will burst forth under this 
furious excitement J — unless indeed the Colonies 
be driven, in self-preservation, to expedients, 
which, in the present position of our interests 
in the American seas, would prove fatal to pur 
national prosperity. 

Yet after these, and many other equally 
classic eifusions, Mr. Stephen assures us, that 
he has so great a regard for these * Septem- 
brizers,* these ' confiscators of bones and si- 
news,' these * sordid enthusiasts,' these * co- 



17 

vetous fanatics,' these proprietors of, ' West 
Indian shambles,' 

* that instead of having any maHcious desire to cen- 
' sure his fellow-subjects in the Colonies, he has perhaps 

* felt too strong a disposition to spare them. — I know 

* not,' he adds, ' why the contrary should be suspected, 

* for there always have been, and are, persons dear to 
' me by nature as well as friendship, who might na- 

* turally remark, on my censures of Colonial Slavery, 

* * in thus saying, thou reproachest us also*.' ' 

Surely, it cannot be thought too severe a cen- 
sure to designate this production as a violent 
and intemperate appeal to the passions of the ig- 
norant! Or must we rather consider Mr. Stephen's 
declaration of his desire to * spare' the British 
Colonies, representing a capital of one hundred 
millions, as a proof of his modest assiu'ance 
and amiable disposition ? and that with his 

* forbearance,' and Mr. Wilberforce's ' candour 
and tenderness,' the West Indians are guarded 
with a shield of * triple hrassT No ! the Colo- 
nists disclaim such hoUow^ professions ; they 
feel justly indignant at the injurious aspersions 
thus profusely cast upon them, and demand a 
full investigation of their truth or falsity. It 
is too late to talk of * candour and forbearance :' 



* Defence of the Registry Bill. — Letter the First, 
p. 32. 

c 



18 

they shrink not from the light — but, confident 
in the justice of their cause, they trust to the 
good sense and dispassionate judgment of their 
countrymen, utterly to discredit these bold ac- 
cusations, and to rescue their valuable posses- 
sions from the danger which threatens them. 

We hope in our future numbers to prove, upon 
the most indisputable authority, that the con- 
dition of the slaves is not only not so afflict- 
ing as the agitators of this question have thus 
ignorantly declared it to be, but that they 
were a happy and contented race until instigated 
to think otherwise ; and that their present moral 
condition exhibits a more rapid progress from 
Paganism to Christianity than has been effected 
in any other country, where the light of revela- 
tion has had to dispel the darkness of ancient 
and hereditary superstitions. 

But we will not anticipate this part of our 
case, and ought, perhaps, to apologise to the 
reader for having so long delayed to carry him 
to the professed object of these tracts — the 
question of Emancipation : yet it appeared at 
once just and expedient to show that, whilst 
it is proposed to deprive the Colonists of the 
legal possession of their property, their charac- 
ters have been made the object of a most wanton 
and cruel attack by the very party, who might 



19 



reasonably be supposed to feel some compunc- 
tion at adding insult to injury. 



It is scarcely necessary, in this stage of the 
West Indian controversy, to enter into any de- 
tail of the measures which the advocates of 
Emancipation are desirous to establish ; they 
may be defined in few words, namely — that all 
slaves in the West India Colonies, the property 
of British subjects, — purchased by and secured 
to them under the sanction of numerous acts of 
the legislature, passed for the benefit of the 
trade of this country, — shall be forcibly, and 
against the will of their owners, placed in a 
condition of absolute freedom ; and that the 
period when, and the regulations under which, 
the measure is to be accomplished, shall be de- 
termined by the British Parliament. 

When it is considered, that this involves an 
entire revolution in the political state of distant 
possessions, infinitely valuable to this country in 
their natural resources, — and in the very position 
which they occupy, as a connecting link between 
the old and the new world, — the statesman will 
naturally approach such a subject with no ordi- 
nary feelings of caution and reserve. He will 
weigh the problematical good to be gained by 
the change with some misgiving jealousy ; and, 

c 2 



20 

should he find that it is in no degree commen- 
surate with the difficulties and dangers it in- 
volves, he will be slow to put to the hazard of 
so great an experiment the advantages, which 
these establishments under the existing system 
afFordj and he will not fail to givetheir due weight 
to the instances of its fatal results in other coun- 
tries under circumstances almost precisely similar. 
With equal caution the moral philosopher 
and the philanthropist, viewing a state of so- 
ciety, — where 800,000 human beings are emer- 
ging from a savage state of barbarism and Pagan 
darkness to the light of Christian revelation,— 
where a growing spirit of liberality on the part 
of the governing, and a happy improvement 
in civilization amongst the governed, are gra- 
dually but securely working to the prosperity 
and happiness of both,— -will pause ere they ' 
endeavour to precipitate the natural progress 
of society ; and will bear in mind — what the 
example of all ages has proved— that civil 
discord and mutual jealousy between the dif- 
ferent gradations of society are the greatest im- 
pediments to all rational improvement. 

Nor will every member of a free state, who 
values the quiet possession of the fruits of his 
own labour, and knows that injustice inflicted 
upon any one individual of the community may 
be made a precedent against his own privileges. 



21 

be less cautious how he gives his voice for the 
oppression of a numerous class of his fellow 
subjects; or justifies any measures, involving the 
sacred right of property, — of extensive and 
vested interests, — and which may expose even 
their lives to danger, in the speculative hope 
that a new order of society may be benefited at 
their expense. 

Again, an enlightened Parliament, at once 
the fruit and the support of a happy constitution, 
— established by the spirit of a free people, and 
sanctified through many ages by the blessings 
it has secured to them, — will never desire to ex- 
ercise its power unjustly over inferior but le- 
gally constituted authorities ; to disfranchise 
them of those privileges, which it has so often 
recognised ; or by any arbitrary proceedings, 
to contravene that great principle of English 
liberty, that no subject of the realm can be in- 
jured either in his property or possessions, unless 
by the process of laws, to which his own consent 
has been given by his representatives in Parlia- 
ment. 

Above all, the Sovereign of a great country 
like this, where so many different and appa- 
rently conflicting interests work out the com- 
mon benefit of all, — who has sworn to observe 
the Great Charter, and the Bill of Riglits, under 
which the property of every man, legally ac« 



22 

quired, is secured to him and his heirs; — whose 
ancestors have granted, and who has himself 
confirmed, the minor charters under which the 
Colonies entered into compact with the Crown, 
— will not readily permit that the inhabitants of 
these settlements, who have ever been devoted 
in their attachment to his person, should be di- 
vested of their immunities and estates. 

But all these considerations of prudence and 
justice will acquire additional force, when it is 
remembered, that so great a revolution of our 
colonial system is recommended to us by a set 
of men, who have for many years taken infinite 
pains to combat the very principles on which 
they now endeavour to maintain its expediency, 
'Tis no less true than strange, that these self- 
same agitators of the question have publicly 
recorded their sense of its danger and injustice ; 
that it would ' be an act of such political in- 

* sanity to emancipate our West Indian la- 

* bourers, these poor pagan, timid, torpid, 

* stupified negroes,' that the charge of such a 
design * was to be believed by no man who 

* could reason or read*.' Their declarations to 
this effect have been so repeatedly made, their 
reasoning on the subject so forcibly impressed 
upon us, their complaints of * the artful and 

* Mr. Stephen's Speech, p. 12. 



23 

'calumnious imputations* against them of a de- 
sire to free tlie slaves so loudly dinned in our 
ears, that we can scarcely believe it to be the 
same voice we now hear in every market-place, 
trumpeting forth the cry of emancipation. 

"We really do not desire to treat this grave 
question in any other than the sincere spirit 
of fair argument and reasoning, or unjustly to 
charge these gentlemen with inconsistency ; — 
still less unjustly to impute to them any im- 
proper motives : we know that consistency is 
at all times a rare virtue, and that their hopes 
and fears, which are the universal springs of 
human action, regulate men as well in their 
views of state policy as of private interest. But 
what will be said when it is proved that Mr. 
Wilberforce, — whohas for so many years devoted 
his almost exclusive attention to the subject of 
our West Indian colonies, — who claims to have 
an intimate knowledge of its intricacies, whilst 
he savs, * the owners themselves of West In- 

* dian estates are utterly unacquainted with the 

* true nature and practical character of the 

* system,* — contradicts himself at every step ? 
If it can be shown that he wavers in his own 
opinions, and disavows to-day the deliberate 
convictions of yesterday, we are justified in 
saying, that his reasoning loses much of its 



24 

authority, and that the merits of the question 
must be determined on surer grounds than the 
momentary and uncertain dreams of the visi- 
onary philanthropist. 

To mark either the entire absence of all good 
faith, or the incon^'stency,"^ — the wandering, fluc- 
tuating principle, — of these politicians, who seem 
to delight in the wild and violent influences of 
their imagination, it is fit to refer to the lan- 
guage they used in regard to emancipation 
during the late discussions on the Registry bill. 
And to begin with Mr. Stephen; — when he stood 
forward in defence of the African Institution in 
I8I7, with the express object of repelling *so 
preposterous ' a charge as the desire of giving 
freedom to the blacks by act of Parliament. 

* To regard,' says he, ' a bill for the registration of 
' slaves as a parliamentary enfranchisement, was a 

* mistake too gross for ignorance to commit, thougli 
' not for art and malice to inculcate*. Yet this pre- 
' posterous ground was taken in Barbadoes and other 

* islands, against the Slave Register Bill. A design to 

* emancipate the slaves was publicly and clamorously 
' ascribed to us by the assemblies and planters. The 
' charge, though believed by no man who could reason or 
' read, was propagated without contradiction ffor who 
' in the West Indies durst publicly contradict it on our 

* Speech, p. 1 1. 



25 

* behalf?) and was at length assumed as a known un- 
' deniable truth. Not only in table talk, but in 
'harangues, resolutions, and legislative reports, pub- 

* lished in the insular Gazette, the insidious falsehood 
' was spread abroad, and alarms were sounded as 
' loudly through the Antilles, as if a parliamentary 
' dissolution of slavery had been really at hand. 

* AH this, sir, we know was mere craft and artifice 
' in our enemies. They wished to raise a general fer- 
' ment in the West Indies, only that the noise of it in 
' this country might assist them in defeating our bill ; 

* and they did not expect that the stratagem would 

* recoil upon themselves, as it unluckily did at Bar- 
' badoes. 

' To a man ignorant of the true state of the slaves 
' in the Sugar Colonies, it must seem strange that such 

* consequences were not foreseen, and were not general 

* in the islands. What more natural than that the poor 
' beings most interested in the fiction should believe 
'and act upon it? what more dangerous than 

' TO IMPRESS THEM WITH THE NOTION OF A GE- 
' NERAL ENFRANCHISEMENT BEING INTENDED FOR 

* THEM BY THE PROMOTERS OF AN IMPENDING ACT 

' OF PARLIAMENT, of the benefit of which their ma- 
' sters, full of alarm and consternation, were striving 
' hard to deprive them r Why, sir, if any member of this 
' Institution, or any man in the Colonies, engaged in 
' the benevolent work of instructing the poor pagan 

* negroes, had held out to them the same views which 
' iheir masters and the assemblies there madly propa- 
' gated, HI-: avould have been justly branded as 



2^ 



* AN INCENDIAIIV, AND PR0SECUTE1> TO CONDIGN 
' PUNISHMENT AS A MOVER OF SEDITION *.' 

Well might Mr. Stephen ask * what could 
' be more dangerous than to impress the poor 

* negroes with the notion of a general enfran- 
' chisement being intended for them by the pro- 
' moters of an impending act of Parliament?' 
The insurrections in Barbadoes, and Demerara, 
and the late attempt at revolt in Jamaica, the 
confused and unsettled opinions of the slaves 
throughout the whole Colonies, attest the truth 
of this. What, then, must the advocates of 
emancipation have to answer for, who, not con- 
tent that this delicate and momentous question 
should be discussed in Parliament, have, in the 
prosecution of this very object, disseminated 
their pamphlets throughout the empire ; aye — 
a7id in the West Indies too, — with an activity and 
an effect that have shaken the Colonies to their 
centre ? 

Let not these awful warnings be given to no 
purpose : they are but the distant rolling of the 
thunder storm, which ere long may burst upon 
us with irresistible violence. Well might Mr. 
Stephen say, '^i'^ any friend of this (African) 

* Institution had held out to the slaves such 
' views, he should be justly branded as an in- 
' cen diary. ^ The friends of the West India 

* Speech, p. 1^. 



27 

cause seek not to brand any set of men as in- 
cendiaries ; they are not accustomed to deal 
in such language ; they leave it to the indi- 
viduals themselves to designate their own acts, 
and to justify them if they can ; and are satis- 
fied that the public should take their character 
from their own lips. ' Any men,' — observe, 

* who should hold out to the slaves views of 

* emancipation should be branded as incen- 

* diaries !' and lo ! what have they done them- 
selves ? what are they now doing every day, in 
public, in private, by speeches, pamphlets, pro- 
positions in Parliament, by petitions, as Mr. 
Baring said, manufactured in London, and sent 
down to all parts of the country for signatures? 

Well might Mr. Stephen say that * such men 

* should be prosecuted to condign punishment 

* as movers of sedition !' We will not take upon 
us to say how far this is practicable — we are 
no lawyers — Mr. Stephen is, and we are con- 
tent to take his word for it ; but this we will ven- 
ture to affirm ; that any man, or any set of men, 
who should use such inflammatory language (as 
may be found in almost all the pamphlets of 
the African Institution) on c, y subject con- 
nected with the administration of justice in this 
country, or who should in such round terms de- 
nounce * the powers that be' for so many crimes 



28 

revolting to human nature, would be immediateli/ 
* prosecuted to condign punishment/ 'Tis now 
but three short years or less, since a distinguished 
individual was imprisoned for writing a letter to 
his constituents on the disturbances at Man- 
chester, which, in comparison of the publications 
we have quoted, was a model of temper and 
forbearance : and we have not yet forgotten 
that many other persons were * prosecuted to 
condign punishment' for instilling into the minds 
of the lower orders in England an impatience of 
subordination, and a desire forcibly to secure to 
themselves certain supposed privileges, which 
happily the constitution does not recognize. 

And, by the way, whatwas the conduct of Mr. 
Wilberforce and his friends on that occasion? 
They entertained so great a horror o^ white insur- 
rection, and of any violent attempts on the part of 
freemen to extend their franchise against the ex- 
isting law, that they were foremost in the ranks 
of those who were for extending the powers of 
the government, and for making new legislative 
enactments to repress all seditious movements. 
But change the colo7\ of the insurgents ;— let 
slaves but attempt the ' vindication of rights* 
which they had never enjoyed, — and the whole 
question, with these gentlemen, assumes another 
character : then is the time to represent their 



29 

masters in the most odious colours ; no proposi- 
tion then to strengthen the hands of the exe- 
cutive,but new reasons enforced, — ontheground 
of justice and humanity! — to give the slaves 
what they had never dreamt or thought of, until 
stimulated and deluded to the belief that it 
might contribute to their happiness ! 

But to return : strong as this disclaimer on 
the part of the Directors of the African In- 
stitution may appear, it is as nothing to what 
remains untold. One publication, however 
widely disseminated, is insufficient for the pur- 
pose ; the case demands * another and another,' 
that the truth may be universally known, and 
the grand principle recognised, on which the 
friends of the African race were to found their 
claim to public confidence. Accordingly Mr. 
Stephen addresses his friend and relative, Mr. 
Wilberforce, in two letters, by way of defence 
against the charge of their being Emancipa- 
tionists. 

' In addition,' says he, ' to these old and new reasons 

* for imputing to us bad motives in our Bill, we are 

* found guilty, it seems, of the enormous crime of wish- 

* iug that the slavery of our colonies may not be eter- 

* nal*. It is, to be sure, not very obvious how the 

* registration of men as slaves tends to make them free, 

* Defence of the Registry Bill, p. 13. 



30 

' or how recording the master's title renders it less se- 
' cure. Certainly, if our design were to follow up this 
' measure by a bill of general enfranchisement, or to 
' effect b}-^ other means the termination of slavery, against 
' the will of the masters, we have taken an odd way to 

* our end. We record the rights of the owner in order 
' to take them away. Their violation is to be facilitated 
' by making them clear and notorious. We admit, 
' however, nay we anxiously maintain, that in one view 

* the Registry Bill has a happy though remote tendency 
' to produce the termination of slavery*.' 

He takes this occasion of repeating the old 
charges of inadequate supply of food and cloth- 
ing, and the odious, cruel system of driving ; 
all of which, upon the adoption of the Registry 
Bill, he says, will disappear, and give place 
to plans of benignant improvement ; and then 
proceeds : 

' When that grand reformation shall be accomplish- 

* ed, a new order of things will arise, in which native po- 

* pulation will gradually become ample and redundant; 

* and voluntary individual manumission, unless still re- 

* strained by barbarous laws -f-, will be felt to be as much 
' for the interests of the master as for the welfare of the 
' slave. These poor beings, in short, who are now on 
' a level with the brutes, will rise first into manhood, and 

* then imperceptibly into freedom. Raise them first to 
' a condition as good as that of the ancient European 

* Defence of the Registry Bill, letter the first, p. 14. 
t Ibid. p. 15. 



31 

' slaves, and they will soon like them obtain liberty, not 

' BY REVOLUTION, BUT BY THE PROGRESSIVE BOUNTY OF 

* THEIR MASTERS. They will rise to it either by imme- 
' diate and full enfranchisements, or gradually, through 
' the ordinary intermediate states in agricultural bond- 
' age — those of the adscript, the serf, and the territorial 
' vassal.' 

Here, then, is a plain and unequivocal avowal 
of their wishes — the pleasing prospect held out 
to us of ' voluntary individual manumission, 

* whicli it will be the interest of the master to en- 

* courage' — of slaves 'imperceptibly rising into 

* freedom,' of ' liberty to be gained, not by re- 

* volution, but by the progressive bounty of 
' their masters/ and ' gradually through the 

* ordinary intermediate states of agricultural 
' bondage ! ' 

But all this is not sufficiently forcible for 
Mr. Stephen. The reader will have already 
perceived that he is not in the habit of express- 
ing himself by halves : we owe him thanks for 
this, and should be sorry not to do justice to 
his powerful language, which requires only to 
be read to illustrate the character of its author. 

' If our opponents,' he continues, ' have changed their 
' me*ws, we have not changed ours.'' ' It is not true that 

* we have in any degree shifted our grounds : it is not 
' true that we are aiming to give freedom to the slaves, 
' except by the means which we always meditated and 

* avowed. To use the words of that Report so loudly 



32 



' arraigned by our opponents, we looked to an emancipa-' 
* tion, of which not the slaves but the masters should be the 
' ivilling instruments or authors' 

Yes, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Brougham, and all 
the other gentlemen on that side of the argu- 
ment, indignantly repelled the charge of wish- 
ing to abolish slavery by law: — they propose 
emancipation by legislative enactment! they 
harbour the intention of wresting from the sub- 
ject his most valuable property, legally secured 
and transmitted for ages under the sanction of 
the law ! — they so mad as to think that either 
the security of the Colonies or the happiness of 
the slaves, could be compatible with such a 
measure ! They, — philanthropists, statesmen, 
legislators, masters in chancery, and yet so re- 
gardless of reason and justice ! — no, — it was an 
* insidious, unfounded calumny, which no man 
' who could read or reason would believe,* and 
carried with it its own refutation ! But that they 
might, once and for ever, repel this charge, it 
was thought desirable that, not only themselves, 
but all the principal * amis des noirs,' should 
unite in a public declaration of their real senti- 
ments ; and accordingly, the African Institution 
published a report, which, fortunately for the 
interests of humanity, stands a never-dying re- 
cord against them, — a sure test, by which we may 
try their consistency and enlightened views. 



33 



It is given in these remarkable words : 

* Accused by their opponents of meditating a general 

* emancipation, they denied the charge; but it was de- 
' nied only in the insidious meaning of the imputation it- 
' self. They did not aim at an emancipation to be 
' effected by insurrection in the West Indies, or to be 

* ordained precipitately by positive law ; but they never 
' denied, or scrupled not to avow, that they did look 

* forward to a future extinction of slavery in the Colo- 
' nies, TO be accomplished by the same happy means 

' WHICH FORMERLY PUT AN END TO IT IN ENGLAND ; 

' namely, by a benign though insensible revolution in 

* opinions and manners, by the encouragement of parti- 
' cular manumissions, and the progressive melioration of 
' the condition of the slaves, until it should slide insen- 
' sibly into general freedom. They looked, in short, 

' TO AN EMANCIPATION, OF WHICH NOT THE SLAVES, BUT 
' THE MASTERS SHOULD BE THE WILLING INSTRUMENTS 

* OR AUTHORS.' — Recisonsjvr a Registry/, p. 8. 

We entreat attention to these sentiments — 

* THEY DO NOT AIM AT EMANCIPATION, TO BE OR- 

* DAINED TRECIPITATELY BY POSITIVE LAW ; they 

* look only to a future extinction of slavery, to 

' BE ACCOMPLISHED BY THE SAME HAPPY MEANS, 

* WHICH FORMERLY PUT AN END TO IT IN ENG- 

* LAND, NAMELY, BY A BENIGN THOUGH INSENSI- 
' BLE REVOLUTION IN OPINIONS AND MANNERS, 

* BY PARTICULAR MANUMISSIONS, TILL IT SHOULD 

* SLIDE INSENSIBLY INTO GENERAL FREEDOM; 

* to an emancipation, in short, of which not 

*THE SLAVES BUT THE MASTERS SHOULD BE THE 

* WILLING INSTRUMENTS.' 

D 



34 



* In England,' continues the Report, ' if it be asked 

* what cause most powerfully contributed to the dissolu- 

* tion of the degrading bondage of our ancestors, the 
' answer must clearly be, the extreme favor shown to in- 
' dividual enfranchisements, by the judges and the laws. 
' That baneful growth of foreign conquest, or early bar- 
' barism, villeinage, had nearly overspread the whole field, 

* now covered with the most glorious harvest of liberty 

* and social happiness that ever earth produced, and 
' where not one specimen of the noxious weed remains : 

' YET IT WAS NOT PLOUGHED UP BY REVOLUTION, OR 

* MOWN DOWN BY THE SCYTHE OF A LEGISLATIVE ABO- 

* LITION; but was plucked up, stalk by STALK, BY 
' THE progressive HAND OF PRIVATE AND VOLUNTARY 

* ENFRANCHISEMENT ; having ceased in England, only 
« because the last slave at length obtained his manumis- 

* sion, or died without a child.' — Reasons, &;c. p. 40. 

Now, in the name of consistency and fair 
reasoning, what does all this mean ? Is man 
gifted with the power of speech, that he may ex- 
press what he feels and knows ? or is langunge, 
as it has been defined by a modern politician, 
the art of concealing our real intentions ? We 
seriously ask again, what are we to think of all 
this ? Is it to be believed that the same gentle- 
men, with these declarations yet warm upon their 
lips, should in the very next Parliament pro- 
nounce, * That slavery is inconsistent with the 
' principles of the British Constitution, and with 

* the Christian religion,' that * it must be rooted 
' out, mown down by the scythe of legislative 

* abolition ;* that ' a voice from Heaven speaks 



35 

* to us ;' that ' we must not presume too far on 

* the forbearance of the Almighty,' but * rescue 

* our country from this guilt and this reproach ?' 

And yet to such hands it is, that the task of 
legislating for the West Indies is to be com- 
mitted — to such expositors of Colonial policy 
we are to refer for our guidance in one of the 
most difficult questions that was ever discussed 
in Parliament ! To these enlightened statesmen 
are to be confided the most valuable possessions 
of the British crown, which, if this country know 
not how to value them, are at least considered 
by every other power in Europe and America as 
the surest bulwark of our national greatness. To 
these consistent legislators we are to look for the 
definition of the rights of property, and of con- 
stitutional law. To these dispassionate and 
candid philanthropists are to be entrusted the 
regulations, under which an African population, 
of dispositions and character wholly different 
from our own, is to be elevated from ignorance 
and comparative barbarism to civilization — from 
Pagan superstition to the blessings of Chri- 
stianity — from slavery to freedom ! 

The future historian, recording the events of 
the present day, will be at a loss to define the 
motives of Government, in conceding so much 
to a party in the House of Commons, equally 
unimportant in their number, and incongruous 
intheelementsof their political union. Orshould 

D 2 



36 

he trace the secret springs of such policy, pos- 
terity will scarcely credit the fact, that a Mi- 
nister of the Crown, whose peculiar province it 
is to watch over the interests of these commu- 
nities, should have linked his political and of- 
ficial influence with the secret counsels of this 
party — should have submitted and surrendered 
himself up to their dictation, till, in pursuing 
their pernicious schemes, he has brought the 
British settlements to the very verge of de- 
struction. Strange, indeed, it is, that this in- 
fluence should have been exercised by indi- 
viduals, who (whatever their personal respecta- 
bility, which we do not for a moment question) 
are for the most part recognised either as open 
or disguised seceders from the established 
church ; and of whom it is enough to say, that 
their avowed hostility to the Colonies should 
at least have inspired in his Lordship's mind 
some diffidence of their views and opinions. 

The present insurrectionary spirit of the 
Negroes throughout the Colonies has at length, 
however, roused the country from its lethargy; 
and all classes, from one extremity to the other, 
are awakened to a sense of the impolicy of the 
resolutions adopted by the House of Commons 
in the last Session. They who are more imme- 
diately interested in the prosperity of these va- 
luable Settlements, who have friends or estates 
that must be involved in immediate ruin by any 



37 

successful revolt of the slaves, stand appalled at 
the dangers which threaten them. The manu- 
facturers who have been in the habit of export- 
ing to them from four to six millions annually ; 
the ship-owners, who have more than two hun- 
dred thousand tons of British shipping em- 
ployed in this trade ; the mercantile body, who 
have invested so many millions of capital on the 
faith of their security ; all wait in anxious so- 
licitude the result of these disorders. The more 
enlightened portion of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment, who cannot be insensible to the immense 
resources these Colonies afford of revenue, of 
patronage, and above all, of national power, de- 
sire, if possible, to retrace their steps : whilst all 
dispassionate persons, who have not yet forgot- 
ten that the wealth and prosperity of England 
depends on its commerce, its shipping, and its 
Colonies, are astonished that the persons thus 
often alluded to, should have acquired so fatal, 
though it is to be hoped so short-lived, an in- 
fluence in the public counsels. 

These last, the advocates for emancipation, 
contemplate with complacency the ruinous con- 
sequences of their own temerity ; they have 
themselves admitted that, * if the Negroes were 
* told of a plan for their general emancipation 
' by a superior power in England, and led to 
' conclude that there is a violent contest on that 
' point between their 'patrons here and the au- 



38 

* thorities under which they live, it would not 
' be impossible that such extreme excitement 

* may have produced, and may again produce, 

* mischievous and fatal effects */ Yet that all 
this should create no * compunctious visitings,' 
might naturally move our wonder, had we 
not a declaration from their own lips, that 
they ' look forward not only to the progress of 
' African freedom, but of African sovereignty 
' in the West Indies !' 

' Even now,' say they, ' a Negro Eminre is rising in 

* the Charibbean seas in fearful strength and energy. 

* The slave-drivers of Jamaica may yet strut their hour 

* as legislators, and publish their childish boasts of in- 

* dependence ; but they have, in King Christophe and 
' President Petion, near neighbours, who may, ere long, 
' if they had not the calls of mercy and justice, address 
' these blusterers in a st}'le yet more peremptory than 

* their own-f-.' 

And will the nation blindlv follow the coun- 
sels of men who dare publicly to avow such 
doctrines ? Will she yield up her most valuable 
Settlements to an * African Sovereignty' or a 
' Negro Empire,' at the instigation of a party, 
whose ill-directed enthusiasm spurns all the re- 
gulations of a wholesome discipline, and with 
such sentiments in their mouths, arrogate to 



* Mr. Stephen's Speech, p. 17. 

-}- Review of Reasons for a Registry, p. 31, 



39 

themselves the exclusive sympathies of bene- 
volence and religion ? 

We need scarcely anticipate the answer. 
If the delicate and intricate subject of emanci- 
pation must be discussed in Parliament, it is 
high time to wrest it from the hands of Mr. 
Wilberforce and his friends. The Colonies 
iiave ever contended that their right in the pro- 
perty of their slaves cannot constitutionally be 
taken away from them by any Act of the British 
Legislature ; and that the regulation of their 
own internal policy, by their representatives in 
Assembly, is their prescriptive right, as British 
subjects, confirmed by ancient charters. But 
judging from what has already past, it may be 
anticipated that the House of Commons will 
assume the right to deliberate on this subject : 
it w^ould indeed be inexpedient and unjust to 
pause at sucli a crisis, until it shall have ap- 
plied the remedy to an evil of its owri creation. 
The question cannot be left in its present un- 
certainty, and we trust, therefore, that its first 
measure will be to disavow its former resolu- 
tions, or at least to give such an explanation of 
them as shall allay the fearful impression which 
they have produced on the minds both of the 
master and the slave ; and to renounce its right 
to emancipate the Negroes without the consent 
of the proprietors. 

Wfiatever expectations may be entertained 



40 

that the freedom of the Blacks must, in the 
course of time, be the happy result of their pro- 
gress in civilization, it is equally inconsistent with 
justice and policy, that the Parliament should 
by any declaration commit itself to the accom- 
plishment of this purpose. The events of the 
last few months have shown that it is liable to 
the most fatal misinterpretation : it is a proverb 
no less true than homely, that ' a little learning 
* is a dangerous thing :' the slaves have been 
repeatedly given to understand that the Parlia- 
ment is disposed to recognize their claim to 
freedom. They do not inquire under what cir- 
cumstances, or at what period, it is intended 
that this boon should be conferred upon them ; 
they know not that civilization and moral im- 
provement are necessary to their safe enjoy- 
ment of it 5 nor indeed are they sensible of their 
own unfitness for an extension of their civil 
rights ; and the greater their ignorance, the less 
competent are they to form a just estimate of 
their own incapacity. 

The planters look forward with the deepest 
anxiety to the approaching agitation of this 
subject : they know, from experience, that the 
machinations of interested* individuals will be 



* Interested it may safely be asserted they are ; some 
by their peculiar purj ose of diverting the channels of 
the colonial trade to their own imaiediate engagements ; 



41 

set in motion against them; and they cannot 
but anticipate a renewal of the disastrous scenes 
which have lately occurred in the West Indies. 
In the midst, however, of these apprehensions, 
the great abilities and enlarged views of one in- 
dividual in the House of Commons, afford a 
ground of hope that, by prompt and vigorous 
measures, the Colonies may yet be rescued from 
their present state of peril. His sentiments 
will be supported by the good sense of the 
better and the more powerful part of the com- 
munity; and in proportion as the benevolent 
feehngs of the nation have been carried beyond 
their more dispassionate convictions, the present 
danger will produce a contrary effect, at least 
upon all candid and honourable minds. 

It is on Mr. Canning's firmness, and the 
manly avowal of his sentiments, and of the in- 
tentions of Government, that the Colonies 
mainly rely : reckless of the clamours of a party, 



some by that overpowering and dangerous principle of 
action, not concealed but avowed and gloried in, of 
bending all things to their own religious tenets ; many, 
and by far the greater part, by the hope of political in- 
fluence among those classes (principally, though not 
wholly, consisting of sanctified seceders from the esta- 
blished church) who, under the name of philanthropy 
and religion, would justify all expedients in furtherance 
of this ' jrreat cause.' 



42 

who would make up by activity and the hollow 
pretensions of religious enthusiasm what they 
want in numbers or in influence, he will look 
to the great example of Mr. Pitt, who, on all 
occasions of difficulty, found his security in the 
boldness of his conceptions, and in his courage 
to execute them. This is not the moment for 
a temporising course in Colonial regulation : and 
his own experience will convince him, that it is a 
hopeless task to conciliate the opinions of both 
parties in an angry controversy. If, as a mem- 
ber of the British Parliament, he might before 
have considered it proper to make an experi- 
ment, how far the difficulty of the occasion 
could be met by an expression of sentiments, 
just in the abstract, and, if reducible to prac- 
tice, enlightened and benevolent; he will, no 
doubt, in a moment of such awful responsibility 
as the present, have regard to his character as 
a Minister of the Crown, the sovereignty of 
which over the Colonies, independent of Par- 
liament, is to be preserved from the avowed 
spirit of innovation, that would refer all matters 
of state, whether foreign or domestic, to the 
arena of the House of Commons. 

It may be anticipated that his measures, — not 
of Colonial policy alone, but on other occasions 
equally momentous, should they ever arise, — 
will justify the expectations which his talents 
have raised. If the Colonies be in fault- — if it 



43 

can be proved by respectable testimony that 
the charges, so often repelled and refuted, but 
which have again been so boldly objected to 
them, are well founded, — let a constitutional 
remedy be applied : but if, on the other hand, 
the clamours with which they have been assailed 
are unjust, as we hesitate not to assert, let them 
be defended and supported without the fear of 
reproach : let the mother country extend to 
them the protection of a parent, and they will 
remain (as their long attachment under cir- 
cumstances of great difficulty and privation 
have already proved) an effective and powerful 
support to her national greatness. 

The Colonial proprietors and their con- 
nexions, who are members of tne legislature, 
have necessarily, from their numbers, their re- 
spectability, and extended interests, great po- 
litical influence and weight, — equal at least to 
the maintenance of their own rights. It rests 
with tliemselves to exercise it with firmness, 
and in the true spirit of union and cordiality : 
the sense of Parliament is with them, for 
we may confidently anticipate that there at 
least just principles are, sooner or later, sure 
to prevail ; and notwithstanding the clamours, 
which the manufacturers of the late petitions 
for emancipation have been enabled to excite, 
by appealing to the passions and prejudices of 
those, who move at the watchwoid of a philan- 



44 

thropy which can cost them nothing, the justice 
of the Colonial cause will triumph. They will, 
on this great occasion, when the existence of 
the West Indies is in such imminent danger, 
speak their sentiments boldly : instead of re- 
gretting their misfortune in the possession of 
Colonial property, which ever has been, and ever 
will be, as honourable a source of wealth as any 
other in this country, they will disclaim the 
hollow candour of their opponents, who would 
endeavour to separate their case from that of 
the resident planters, and pay compliments to 
their benevolent dispositions at the expense ot 
those whom they may be said to represent. If, 
but for a moment, they reflect, that their pos- 
sessions have already been reduced to one half 
their former value, by a course of measures not 
emanating from, but forced upon, and, as it 
were, tacitly justified by Government, they will 
be sensible that the security of what remains to 
them will greatly depend upon their own firm- 
ness AND UNANIMITY in Parliament. 



END OF NO. I. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY XHOMAS DAVISON, WHITEFRIARS, 



