Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/commonwealthof1821mass 



Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 



SECRETARY'S OFFICE, April 17, 1821. 

AS directed by an order of the Honorable the 
House of Representatives, of the 13th of February 
last, the undersigned, Secretary of the Commonwealth, 
has examined into the present condition of the public 
records and documents belonging to the Common- 
wealth, " in the Secretary's Office," or connected 
therewith: And now presents a "statement" and 
schedule thereof, "shewing the progress which has 
been made in copying said records," and specifying 
what volumes of records, files of Court papers, printed 
volumes and pamphlets, plans, maps, and other docu- 
ments are now in the Office ; and what deficiencies 
appear, upon such examination. 

When the undersigned came into the office, nearly 
nine years ago, the records of the General Court (which 
are made in the Secretary's office) were three Sessions 
in arrears. They were completed with all possible 
despatch, at the same time, that the usual and ordina- 
ry copying and recording were attended to : And for 
the last six years, the records of each respective Ses- 
sion have been finished by the next succeeding Session 
of the Legislature. And they are now complete and 
perfect, up to the present * time. The records of the 
Supreme Executive Council have also invariably been 
made up in the recess of each respective Session of 
that Honorable Board ; and are eomplete. 

All commissions, (except those for Justices of the 
Peace and Coroners,) and all warrants for pardon, 
proclamations, &c. are also recorded ; and are always 
done soon after they are issued, generally within thirty 
days. Of the appointment of Justices and Coroners, 



2 ' 

whose commissions are not recorded at length, there 
are three distinct and separate records, as to date, par- 
ticular office, and place of abode. This was the prac- 
tice when the undersigned came into the office. 

In 1725, Mr. Secretary Willard was ordered to 
have the records of the Court copied. In 1734, he 
was directed to have duplicates made out to that time. 
And in 1747, the year the Province House was burnt, 
and some of the files and records destroyed by the fire, 
there was an order of the Court, that their records 
should be copied, so as to have duplicates complete ; 
« that the Secretary improve as many Clerks as he 
might judge necessary for the purpose ; and that when 
finished, they be kept in a separate place." 

From time to time, since the undersigned has been 
in the office, (as was before the practice,) and when 
any Clerk had finished the recording and copying usu- 
ally assigned him, the records of the General Court 
have been copied, and the duplicates deposited in the 
Library of the Senate. And in this way, without any 
extra Clerk for the purpose, duplicates of the Court 
records have been made from the earliest date down 
to April, 1777. 

The orders for copying the records above recited, 
being of ancient date, it was believed that the Secre- 
tary would not have been justified in employing a per- 
son particularly and solely for that purpose. His im- 
mediate predecessors, he has learnt, had the same im- 
pressions. He begs, however, respectfully to suggest 
the expediency of having duplicates of the records 
completed ; and that one set be deposited in chests or 
boxes, which might be easily and promptly removed 
in case of fire. 

Some A of the oldest volumes of records are found to 
contain addresses and letters prepared by the General 
Court or by the Governor and Assistants of those times. 
Latterly, all public letters have been recorded in sep- 
arate volumes. 

The records of the General Court are supposed to 
contain all the reports of Committees appointed by the 



Legislature, whether any law or resolve be passed 
thereon or not ; and this seems to be necessary to con- 
stitute a perfect record. It has been found, however, 
upon enquiry, in some cases, that such reports have not 
been recorded, and were never sent to the Secretary's 
office. As it was formerly the practice, the Secretary 
would respectfully enquire, if it would not be expe- 
dient that all such reports be deposited in his office, 
for the purpose of being recorded and tiled. 

The Secretary has not had time to examine all the 
duplicate volumes of the General Court records. He 
has, however, compared several of them, and has ob- 
served some omissions in the most ancient, and some 
errors in the orthography. 



S. statement and schedule of the "public records 
and documents, belonging to the Commonwealth" in 
the Secretary's Office. April llih, 1821. 

1st. A volume containing the Proceedings of the 
Company of the Massachusetts Bay, after it was in- 
corporated in England, from February, 1628-9, to 
March, 1629-30, the time when Governor ~Wmthrop 
and others left England to settle here : Of the Gover- 
nor and Assistants of the Colony, after their arrival in 
July, 1630, to 1634; and of the General Court, to- 
gether with those of the Courts of Assistants, which 
exercised judicial power, from 1634 to 1642. This 
volume also contains the names of persons admitted 
freemen, from 1631 to 1642 : the duplicate or copy of 
this volume, does not contain the first twelve pages of 
the old and original record, giving an account of the 
stock and expences of the company, in preparing for 
the plantation. 

A volume of Records of the Gfeneral Court, from 
1642 to 1649. Several pages in the first part of this 
volume are torn and defaced, and in the duplicate 
there are blanks and omissions under the same date ; 



which shew that the -original was mutilated before it 
was copied. 

A volume of the Proceedings, of the House of Dep- 
uties, of their Committees, &c. from 1644 to 1654, of 
the nature of a Journal ; and with marks of being, 
originally, files of papers, bound after the period of 
their dates. And it is evidently not regular and con- 
nected in the order of time, nor complete for the num- 
ber of years above mentioned. 

A large folio volume of 730 pages, of the General 
Court Records, from 1649 to 1674. This volume con- 
tains public letters and addresses, and several orders 
on ecclesiastical matters ; and it will be recollected, 
that in the early period of Massachusetts, the Magis- 
trates generally gave their opinion and advise on these 
as well as political subjects, though usually without 
pretending to decide or control. 

A quarto volume of Records, from 1674 to June, 
1686, soon after the charter was vacated, and Dudley 
and others, by virtue of King James II. commission, 
took upon them the whole authority of civil government 
in the Colony, who were succeeded by Sir Edmund 
Andros and others, as his counsellors and assistants, 
in December, 1686. 

For the year 1686, after June, and for 1687, 1688, 
and 1689, till the month of April, when the people 
assumed the powers of government, there are no rec- 
cords in the office of the Secretary ; and the files for 
the same period are small and imperfect, and, except- 
ing some papers in admiralty cases, are composed 
chiefly of petitions for confirmation of tracts and lots 
of land, together with surveys thereof, many of which 
respect lands in the Colony of New York. And it is 
known that one act of injustice of that arbitrary ad- 
ministration, was to vacate the titles to a great portion 
of the lands which had been taken up by the people, 
and to declare them forfeited to the crown. It appears 
by a note in Hutchinson's History of Massachusetts, 
that the Records of that period were either destroyed 
or taken away, by order of Sir Edmund Andros. 



5 

Some minutes of proceedings for a part of his admin- 
istration, have been discovered by the undersigned, in 
examining the old files, and have been labelled, that 
they may be readily seen at any time. 

Eleven large folio volumes of Records of the Great 
and General Court, from 1689 to 1737, which are be- 
lieved to be regular and complete. 

For the period next succeeding, viz. from 1737 to 
1744, there is only one volume, and that made long 
since the dates of the proceedings recorded therein, 
from papers on file. The original Records for this 
period are said to have been burnt. The papers con- 
tained in this volume are irregular and incomplete. 
The Record is unlike that in the other volumes, being 
made without a Journal, and from such detached doc- 
uments as were on file. For 1744, 1745 and part of 
1746, there is no Record, and the files for the same 
years are small and irregular. 

Thirteen large folio volumes from September, 1746, 
to June 17th, 1774, supposed to contain entire and 
perfect records of that period. To the volume for 
1764 is appended the case of Massachusetts and New 
York, as to their boundary line and of the claims of 
Massachusetts to Woodstock, Enfield and Suffield. 
To that of 1768, a record of the conference of the 
commissioners respecting the boundary between New 
York and Massachusetts : And to that of 1774, a 
journal of the commissioners to agree on said line in 
1773. 

Two large folio volumes of proceedings of Provin- 
cial Congress from October 1774 to July 1775 ; and 
two volumes of their journals for the same period; 
and a volume of the proceedings, orders, &c. of the 
Committee of Safety for part of the year 1775. 

Seven folio volumes of the records of the General 
Court or Assembly, from July 1775 to October 1780 j 
which are believed to be regular and perfect. 

Twenty three folio volumes of the General Court 
records from October 1780, the time when the govern- 
ment commenced under the constitution, to February 



6 

1821, inclusive, which are considered and appear to 
be entire and complete. 

Some of the old volumes, which needed it, have 
been repaired in the binding. This being considered 
a thing of necessity has been done without any par- 
ticular order of the Legislature. 



2d. Other volumes of records, letters, §*c. 8£c. and 
miscellaneous manuscripts in the Secretary's Office, 

viz. : 

Five volumes, which contain the two charters of 
Massachusetts and one of Plymouth Colony, and pub- 
lic proclamations of the Governors, Crown Commis- 
sioners, &c. &c. from the earliest period of the colony 
down to the year 1775. 

Five volumes, containing commissions, proclama- 
tions, warrants for pardon, &c. from 1780 to 1821. 

Three volumes of public letters, to and from the 
Governors and Secretaries, Speakers of House of Re- 
presentatives, and public Agents, from 1701 to 1775. 

Eight volumes of public letters to and from the Gov- 
ernors and Secretaries, &c. from 1775 to 1821. Some 
of the letter books contain important statements of the 
population, services, resources, commerce, &c. of the 
province at different periods, which may prove highly 
useful to the historian and antiquary. 

A volume of public treaties, contracts, &c. and sev- 
enty two bundles of letters, which, according to the 
labels, begin 1638, and are continued to the present 
time. 

Two volumes of records of votes for Members for 
Congress in the several districts of the Commonwealth, 
containing the number and the result of votes in the 
respective districts, from 1789, to this date. 

Three volumes, containing records of returns from 
Banking and Turnpike Corporations ; and a volume of 
returns of inspection of beef and pork, butter and lard, 
and pot and pearl ashes. 



Four volumes of records of civil officers, commis- 
sioned since October, 1780, to this time : And three 
volumes of records of those nominated to civil offices. 

A memorandum book, of lots and grants of land in 
Maine ; and one of lots and grants in Massachusetts. 

A volume, of persons naturalized, from 1785 to 
1789. 

A volume of land warrants, by Sir E. Andros, for 
1687 and 1688. 

A volume of claims and grants of land in Maine, 
from 1672 to 1720. 

Two volumes of proceedings, in disposing of the 
estates of absentees. 

One volume containing a register of vessels, &c. 
1697 to 1706. 

Two volumes of records of persons commissioned in 
the militia, from 1780 to 1793. 

A volume of certificates of pensioners of the United 
States. 

A volume of certificates of Probate proceedings, on 
appeals, in cases of wills, divorce, &c. 1761-1784. 

Eight volumes of submissions by settlers on lands 
in Maine. 

One volume of records of lands sold by the Agents 
of the State for public securities. 

A manuscript volume of laws and orders of Court, 
from 1630 to 1654, being irregular copies from the 
other records of the General Court, and chiefly relat- 
ing to elections, power of the freemen, &c. 

A manuscript containing a correspondence between 
Selectmen of Boston and Committee of Safety, in 1775. 

A manuscript of correspondence between Governor 
Shirley and General Waldo, in 1748. 

A manuscript, entitled, " the King, plaintiff, against 
the Governor and Company of the Massachusetts Bay, 
in New England, on scire facias." 

A manuscript containing a statement of the arbitra- 
ry conduct of Sir E. Andros, by several of his Coun- 
cil, January, 1690. 

A manuscript containing an abstract of evidences 
against Sir E. Andros, 1689, 



8 

A manuscript containing extracts from the charter of 
Massachusetts, with remarks by a Mathematician. 

Patent or grant of Maine, to Sir Ferdinando Gorges, 
1629. 

A patent from Charles II. to Sir F. Gorges' son, 
1675. 

Deed of Gorges to Usher, 1677. 

"Will of John Mason, disposing of his lands in 
Maine, 1653. 

A file of papers relating to a dispute with Hhode 
Island, respecting territory and bounds, 1699. 

Report of conference as. to the line between Massa- 
chusetts and New York, 1768. 

Report and agreement of the line between Massa- 
chusetts and New York, 1773, and a file of papers on 
the same subject, for 1784. 

Papers relating to the controversy about the line be- 
tween Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 

State of the case as to the line between Massachu- 
setts and New Hampshire. 

Report of the running of the line between Suffolk 
and Plymouth Counties, 1773. 

Treaty of the United Colonies of New England 
with Narraganset Indians. 

Treaty with Eastern Indians, 1725. 

Conference with them, 1726. 

Treaty with the St. Johns Indians, 1760, and one 
with them in 1776. 

Copy of the records of the Convention, in Maine, 
1819 and 1820. 

Manuscript containing letters to and from the Coun- 
cil, in 1776 ; and one of letters to and from the Com- 
mittee of Safety, in May and April, 1775. 

Manuscript containing names of military and naval 
officers, 1776-1780. 

A volume of Accounts of Massachusetts with the 
Continental Congress, with individual public officers, 
and with towns, 1776, &c. 

A manuscript stating the value of notes given to of- 
ficers and soldiers, 1781. 



9 

A manuscript containing names of militia officers in 
the State, 1777 and 1778. 

A file of statements and letters as to the claims of 
Massachusetts on the United States, for expenses of 
the revolutionary war. 

File of papers relating to C. Bush, Agent of General 
Howe, March, 1776. 

A manifesto and proclamation of Lord Carlisle, 
General H. Howe and William Eden, British Com- 
missioners, addressed to the people of America, 1778, 
on" parchment, signed and sealed, and countersigned, 
A. Ferguson. 

A manuscript containing an abstract or list of mat- 
ters recorded in old volumes, chiefly respecting grants 
of lands, 1623-1686. 

A manuscript, being an alphabetical list of grants of 
land and settling of bounds by the government, from 
1629 to 1682. The Records of the grants referred to 
are not in the office. 

A printed volume of resolves and reports, &c. re- 
specting public lands in Maine, and proceedings of 
agents for eastern lands, 1783-1803. > 

A file of forms of commissions for public officers and 
agents of various kinds, from 1780 to 1820. 



3d. What are, strictly speaking, the General Court 
Files, may be correctly described as follows, viz. .-, 

From 1639 to 1644, one bundle. 
From 1645 to 1650, three bundles. 
From 1650 to 1660, five bundles. 
From 1660 to 1685, they appear regular and 
perfect, excepting for 1674, the file contains but few 
papers ; and for part of 1686, 1687 and 1688 they are 
evidently incomplete. 

From"l689 to 1711, the files are apparently regular 

and perfect, but for 1712, there are none ; and for the 

period of 1713 to 1723, there is only one small bundle. 

The files for the period last mentioned were burnt, 

2 



10 

but the records embracing that time are beMeved to be 
complete and entire ; having, probably, been made 
before the files 'were destroyed. 

The files for several years following, viz. for 1724, 
1725 and 1726 are small and evidently incomplete. 
For 1727, they appear to be perfect "and entire ; for 
1728 and 1729 there are none ; and for 1730 there is 
only one small bundle. 

From 1731 to 1738 inclusive, the files are small and 
evidently imperfect. 

For 1739, and also for 1740, 41, 42, and 43, they 
appear to be entire ; but for 1744, 45, 46, and 47, they 
are few and irregular. 

From 1747 to 17th June, 1774, with the exception 
of 1763, for which there is only one small bundle, the 
files are, to all appearance, full and complete. 

There are no files of Provincial Congress for 1774; 
but for 1775, there are several. And from July, 1775, 
to October, 1780, the Court files appear to be regular 
and perfect. 

From October, 1780, to the present time, the files of 
resolves and papers, of original bills and papers con- 
nected with them, and of engrossed bills, &c. are reg- 
ular and entire. 

Some of the files, viz.: for 1686, 1727, 1744, 1747, 
1752, 1753,, 1754, 1757, and 1758, on lately search- 
ing for papers for those years, were found to be irreg- 
ular and incomplete ; and they were then put into the 
best order their mutilated state would admit. And on 
further examination, since the order of the House of 
Representatives, in compliance with which this report 
is made, several files supposed to be incomplete, have 
been found to contain papers much torn and defaced 
by dirt. These were probably taken from the street, 
after the fire of 1747, when the Court House, and some 
of the public records and files were destroyed. 



11 

4th. ...Other Files and Documents. 

Two large bundles of papers, being Proceedings of 
the Convention in 1779 and 1780 ; and returns from 
the towns in the Commonwealth, respecting the Con- 
stitution prepared by the Convention. 

A bundle of papers, being the returns of votes of 
the several towns in the State, on the question of re- 
vising the Constitution in 1795. 

A bundle of papers containing the proceedings of 
the Convention for adopting the Constitution of the 
United States, 1788. 

Files of returns of votes for Governor and Lieuten- 
ant Governor, for Electors of President and Vice Pre- 
sident of the United States, and for Representatives to 
Congress, for many years, viz. : from 1788 to this pe- 
riod ; and a file of returns of votes for and against the 
separation of Maine, 1816. Proceedings of Brunswick 
Convention in |the same year; and a bundle, being re- 
turns of votes respecting Separation of Maine, 1819. 

The Journal of the proceedings of the Convention 
at Hartford, in January, 1815. 

Proceedings of Commissioners from the New Eng- 
land States, at Springfield, in 1777, at Providence, in 
1777, at Hartford, in 1778, and at Boston, in 1780. 

A bundle of papers, being agreements respecting 
the Genesee lands. 

Numerous files of County Treasurers' accounts ; of 
certificates of the legal qualifications of civil officers ; 
of petitions from settlers on lands in Maine, at differ- 
ent periods ; and of the doings of Commissioners ap- 
pointed to termiuate disputes, and quiet the inhabitants. 

A bundle of old papers relating to a "Land Bank;" 
several files of pay rolls of Houses of Representatives, 
and of the Senate, being duplicates ; and files of re- 
turns from Directors of Banks, and from Inspectors of 
Beef, Butter, &c. 

Several files of papers saved from the riot at Gov- 
ernor Hutchinson's house ; some of them of a private 
nature, and some of them public documents collected 



12 

by him, probably as materials for his History of Mass- 
achusetts, and a volume of State Papers which he had 
published. 

These not being considered as belonging to the gov- 
ernment, or as any part of the records of the Common- 
wealth, or ancient colony or province, some of them, 
valuable chiefly for their antiquity, were selected by 
the undersigned, with the consent and approbation of 
the Supreme Executive, and deposited in the Library 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, a list of them 
being first made and kept in the Secretary's office; 

Files of the declarations and oaths taken by the 
Governor and Lieutenant Governor, Senators and Rep- 
resentatives ; and of certificates of the oaths taken by 
civil officers, before dedimus Justices in the several 
counties of the Commonwealth, from time to time. 

Files of certificates and discharges of soldiers of the 
revolutionary army, lodged in the office for the purpose 
of obtaining bounties. 

Files of returns of ordnance and military stores ; of 
treaties with Indians ; of agents to settle with officers 
and soldiers of the American revolutionary army ; of 
petitions to Parliament, from 1759 to 1764 ; and of 
petitions of insurgents under sentence of death in 1787. 

Several files and volumes of plans and maps of towns, 
and of particular tracts and grants of lands to individ- 
uals, from the first settlement of the country to the 
present period. But some, for which inquiry has been 
occasionally made, and which, according to the records 
of the court, were probably returned to the office, are 
not to be found therein. 

Twenty one folio volumes of settlements with the 
officers and soldiers of the Massachusetts line of the 
revolutionary army, and some files of papers relating 
to the same subject. 

Several files of papers respecting the provincial 
troops, from 1756 to 1762 ; 

And files of valuations, taken and made at different 
periods. 

Papers relating to the boundary line on New Bruns- 
wick, and to the River of St, Croix. 



x 



13 

Agreements of Commissioners of New York and of 
this State, respecting the western lands, 1786. 

Indentures between the Agents of the Commonwealth 
and Gorham and Phelps, as to the Genesee lands. 

Papers relating to the purchase of States 7 land by 
R. Morris. 

Several files of incorporation of towns, alphabetical- 
ly arranged. 

Numerous files of estimates for county taxes. 

Commissary General's papers, 1790. 

Files of accounts of Quarter Master General, from 
1789 to 1816. 



5th. Numerous Pamphlets of the laws of Congress 
and of this Commonwealth, some in folio and some in 
octavo. For some sessions there are more than one 
hundred, and for some, very few. 

Two hundred and twenty copies of the 4th volume 
of general laws, printed in 1816; forty five of Hub- 
bard's History, and one hundred and twenty eight of 
the volume of ancient charters and colony laws ; but 
none of the general or special laws, printed in 1807, 
consisting of three volumes each and embracing the 
period from 1780 to 1806. 

Several volumes of the Journals of the House of 
Representatives, viz. : from 1730 to 1773, excepting 
1768. 

An old volume of the laws of the Colony, from 1641 
to 1672, printed in 1672 ; one, of the laws of the Pro- 
vince, from 1691 to 1696 ; one, from 1692 to 1722 ; 
and one, from 1691 to 1699 ; another volume of the 
laws, from 1692 to 1767, containing also the laws of 
Parliament of 1733 and of 1764, laying duties and im- 
posts on the Colonies. 

A volume of laws, from 1736 to 1771. 

Three manuscript volumes of laws, one from 1738 
to 1746 ; one, from 1747 to 1756 ; and one, from 1756 
to 1762. A printed volume of the laws, from 1762 to 
1770 ; also, a volume of laws, from 1742 to 1774 ; one, 



14 

from 1775 to 1780 ; one, for 1781 and 1782 ; and one. 
from 1780 to 1787. 



6th. A set of the laws of Congress, in thirteen vol- 
umes ; and of Massachusetts, in four volumes ; of 
special laws, in three volumes ; and of promiscuous 
laws, general and special, as they were enacted, vol- 
umes 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th. 

A set of -Reports and decisions in the Supreme Ju- 
dicial Court, with several copies of volume 1st, 13th, 
14th and 15th. 

Reports of Committees of the Legislature on settle- 
ments with the Treasurers of the Commonwealth, from 
1793 to 1806, and from 1809 to 1820 ; and several 
books containing lists of notes and obligations in the 
Treasury, from 1797 to 1817. 

A volume of abstracts of, and references to, the re- 
cords of Plymouth Colony. 

Eleven volumes of the records of that Colony, from 
its first settlement to 1690, when it was annexed to 
Massachusetts. 

Also a volume of the proceedings of the Commis- 
sioners of the United Colonies of New England, from 
1643 to 1673 ; all copied or prepared by order of the 
General Court, two years ago. 

Seventy copies of the Constitution of Massachusetts 
and of the United States, bound, and four hundred and 
fifty in boards, and containing also General Washing- 
ton's Farewell Address ; andabout three hundred pam- 
phlets, containing laws of the United States on na- 
turalization. 

Several sets of documents from Congress, for 1818, 
1819 and 1820. 

Several hundreds of blank returns of votes for Gov- 
ernor, Lieutenant Governor, Senators, Representatives 
and Members of Congress. 

Abstracts of bank returns for several years ; blanks 
to furnish dedimus Justice and blank commissions for 
civil officers of various kinds. 



15 

One hundred pamphlets of reports and decisions on 
contested elections. 

Eight maps of Massachusetts and Maine, by O. 
Carlton ; and sixty of Greenleaf's map of Maine, with 
a small volume in boards, being a description of the 
soil, territory and*population of that State. 



7th. The papers and documents belonging to the 
Secretary's Department have been so multiplied and 
increased within the last twenty years, that there is 
now no spare room in the office ; and many files as 
well as pamphlets and bound volumes, are of necessity 
deposited in the upper story of the State House, to 
which it is very inconvenient, especially in winter, to 
have access. The Secretary is informed, that when 
thp State House was built, it was intended, that the 
large room on the lower floor, adjoining the Secreta- 
ry's Office, and now occupied by the Adjutant General, 
should be appropriated to that department. Some ad- 
ditional room will soon be necessary for keeping papers 
and files of the General Court, which are in the care 
of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. Another room 
attached to the Secretary's Department is also wanted 
for engrossing bills during the sitting of the Legisla- 
ture. For the engrossing Clerks should be free from 
interruption. And during the Session of the General 
Court, members are almost constantly calling at the 
Secretary's Office for books and copies, and for the 
purpose of searching the public records of former times. 
The room opposite the Treasurer's Office, which has 
many years been occupied as a land office, will pro- 
bably soon be vacated. But that is so remote from the 
Secretary's present office, that it would not be so con- 
venient as one at the west end of the State House. 
The room lately used by the Quarter Master General 
for an office has become unoccupied ; which, perhaps, 
would be considered a proper appendage to the Sec- 
retary's Department. It is for the undersigned, how- 



16 

ever, only to suggest the subject, and to refer to the 
wisdom of the Legislature to decide whether any new 7 
arrangement shall be made in relation to the Secreta- 
ry's Office. 



8th. As the Secretary has also the care of the re- 
cords of the Council, it may be expected, that a state- 
ment be made of their present condition. The most 
ancient is a small folio volume only partly written, 
however, and purporting to be a record from 1650 to 
1656, but it is without an index. 

Four folio volumes of records, frOm 1747 to April, 
1765. From 1765 to 1775, there are no distinct re- 
cords of the Council ; but from 1775 to this time, they 
are regular, entire and perfect. Formerly there was 
only an index to these volumes according to the dates 
of matters recorded ; this was found to be very incon- 
venient and occasioned great delay to find any partic- 
ular case enquired for. The undersigned has had 
alphabetical indexes prepared for the records for 
the last nine years, the period he has been in of- 
fice ; and also for two other volumes immediately pre- 
ceeding ; and several old volumes of records, which 
had no table of contents, have had alphabetical indexes 
made within the last six years, as the Clerks in the 
office had leisure, occasionally, from the regular and 
usual business of recording. 

9th. It may be proper to observe, that all the laws 
and resolves are copied for the printers, (who publish 
the laws) by the Clerks in the Secretary's office. This 
has been the practice for more than twelve years ; for- 
merly, the originals were sent to the printers, but on 
account of some accident, by which an original act 
was defaced and torn, it was concluded to send no 
more out of the office. This business requires some 
time, but the propriety of the measure, it is presumed, 
will not be doubted. A great portion of the laws and 
resolves are also copied by request, and for the use of 
particular persons and corporations. The making of 



17 

indexes for each pamphlet of laws and resolves, and 
for the bound volumes, is also a business of considera- 
ble application and labour. 



10th. It has been found necessary to have in the 
Secretary's office, lists of all towns in the Common- 
wealth, and of all public officers who are entitled to 
receive, at the expense of government, the laws of 
of Congress, and any volumes or pamphlets printed by 
order of the Legislature. Books are kept by one of 
the Clerks for these purposes, to faciliate the discharge 
of this duty, and to prevent all mistakes in the delivery 
of the laws. Lists are also prepared in the Secretary's 
office of all the towns in the State, at every election of 
Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Senators or Members 
of Congress. 



11th. In the Council Chamber and Library Room 
adjoining, and Anti- Chamber, are the following vol- 
umes and documents, in addition to the records before 
mentioned, viz. : 

Files of Council Papers, from 1724, to this time, 
excepting for the years 1728 and 1729, and Journals 
or Minutes of Council Proceedings, from which the 
records are prepared for several years last past. 

A set of General Laws of the State, of the special 
laws and of resolves in separate volumes ; a set of Re- 
ports of Decisions in the Supreme Judicial Court, and 
several separate volumes of the same ; a set of Laws 
of the United States, in duodecimo, and a set in four 
volumes royal octavo ; a set of the Documents printed 
by order of Congress, for 1818, 1819 and 1820 ; a set 
of State Papers, in ten volumes, printed by order of 
Congress, in 1818 ; a volume of Massachusetts State 
Papers, for 1775-1776 ; Journals of Congress under 
the confederation, and of Senate and House of Repre- 



18 

sentatives, since 1789, excepting for two years ; Haz- 
ard's Collections of State Papers, two volumes. 

Hutchinson's Hfstory of Massachusetts, in 2 vols, 
and a volume of his Collections of Antient Papers ; a 
volume of Antient Laws of the American Plantations 
and Colonies, in 1640, &c. ; Minot's History of Mass- 
achusetts, and of the Insurrection, in 1786 ; Marshall's 
History of Washington ; Mather's Magnalia Christi 
Americana ; Seybert'-s Statistical View of the United 
States ; the Laws of Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylva- 
nia, Connecticut, New York, and most of the other 
States in the Union ; but they are not complete. 

Proceedings of Convention in Virginia, 1775; Jour- 
nal of Federal Convention in Philadelphia, in 1787 ; 
Chambers', Savary's and Johnson's .Dictionaries ; a 
Gazetteer and a Bible. 

Three of Lewis' large Maps of the United States, 
purchased about three years ago ; one is suspended in 
the Council Anti-Chamber, the other two were design- 
ed for the Senate and House of Representatives. 

A Map of Europe, of Spain and Portugal, of New 
England, of New York, of Pennsylvania, of Mary- 
land, of Connecticut ; two of New Hampshire, and 
two of Maine ; one of the land and waters about Sand- 
wich and Buzzard's Bay, and one of the River St. 
Croix and Bay of Passamaquoddy. 



12th. The Secretary regrets, that, since the order 
of the Honorable House of Representatives requiring 
a statement of the records and documents in his depart- 
ment, which he has above partially attempted, he has 
had but little leisure from the usual and necessary du- 
ties of the office to bestow upon the subject, otherwise 
he would have given one more in detail. This, so far 
as it pretends, he is confident is correct ; and perhaps 
is as particular as was contemplated by the Honorable 
House of Representatives. 

There is evidently a defect in some of the files of 



19 

papers belonging to the General Court ; and some of 
the old files are not in the precise order of time in which 
they should be arranged. This appears from the late 
partial examination, which the Secretary has been able 
to make, as well as from former search, occasionally, 
at the request of persons desirous of inspecting some 
old grants and surveys of land. The volumes of re- 
cords he has inspected, personally, and with some at- 
tention and care ; and is satisfied the statement, here- 
with presented, relating to them, is, in all respects, ac- 
curate. As to the files, they are so numerous, that it 
must be evident a minute and detailed examination 
could not be made without a much longer time than 
was allotted. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

ALDEN BRADFORD, 

Secretary of the Commonwealth. 



To the Honorable the House of Representatives"? 
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 5 



