Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2010 witin funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/africanservantOOrich 



("No. 5: 



H 



THE 



AFRICAN SESIVANT, 

^, " . :; E?Y REV ,LEGH .Hit HjiOl^^^ : ^ > 

RESa'CSR 'OF ^UtvVEY, ijEDVORDSHIRE, ENt>. 



An authentic narrative. 



During a residence of some years' continuanee in the 
Beighbourhood of the sea, an ofl&cer in the navy called 
upon rae, and stated that he had just taken a lodging in 
the parish for his wife and children ; and, that he had an 
African, whom he had kept three years in his service. ' The 
lad is a handy fellow,' said the officer^ ' and he has a great 
desire to be baptised ; 1 have promised him to ask you to 
do it for him, if you have not any objections,' 

'(Does he know any thing,' I replied, * of the principles 
o^^he christian religion ?' 

' O yes, I am sure he does,' answered the captain ; 
*-for he talks 'a deal about it in tlie kitchen, and often gets 
laughed at for his pains ; but he takes it all very patient- 
ly? 

' Does he behave well as your servant r' 

' Yes, that he does : he is as honest, and civil a feUo\v> 
as ever came aboard a ship, or lived in a house.' 

' Was he always so well behaved ?' 

' No,' said the officer ; ' when I first had him, he was 
often very unruly, and deceitful 5 but, for the last two years, 
he has been quite like another creature.' 

' Well, sir, I shall be very glad to see him, and think it 
probable, I shall wish to go through a course of instruction 
and examination 5 during which, I shall be able to form a 
judgment, how far it will be right to admit him to the sa- 
crament of baptism. Can he read .?' 

' Yes,' replied his master 5 ' he has been taking great 
pains to learn to read for some time past, and can make 
out a chapter in tlie Bible pretty well, as my maid servant 
i-nforms me. He speaks English better than many of his 
countrymen, but you will find it a little broken. When will 
H be convenient that I should send him over to you ?' 

* Tomorrow afternoon, sir, if yon please.' 



S ^fy^ican ServanL ... [26 

' He shall came to yoii a;Voat four c'cluik,.ami;}^ou shall 
see what you can make of hdm.'. . 

With this promise he tholf his lfay«. I felt glad of an 
opportunity of instructing a native of that land whose 
wrongs and injuries had often eaased me'tosii^h z.\\A mourn ; 
the more so, when I redested zt'/io i?ad beeii the aggressors. 

At the appointed hour my African disciple arrived. He 
was a very young looking man, with a sensible, lively, and 
pleasing turn of countenance. 

I desired him to sit down, and said, ' Your master in- 
forms me, that you wish to have some conversation with 
me, respecting christian baptism .^' 

' Yes, sir, me very much wish to be a Christian.' 

* Why do you wish so .^' 

* Because, me know, that Christian go to heaven, when 
he die.' 

' How long have you had that wish .^' I said. 

' Ever since me hear one good minister preach in Aw/^.r- 
ica ; two years ago.' 

' Where were you born .^' 

' In Africa. Me was very little boy, when me was made 
slave by the white men.' 

' How was that ?' 

* Me left father and mother one day at home, to go to 
get shells by the sea shore : and, as I was stooping down to 
gather them up, some white sailors came out of a boat, and 
took me away. Me never see father nor mother again.' 

* And what^beeome of you then?' 

' Me was put into ship, and brought to Jamaica, and 
sold to a massa, who keep me in his house to serve him 

some years ; when, about three years ago, captain W , 

my massa that spoke to you, bought me to be his servant, 
on board his ship. And he be good massa ; he gave me 
my liberty, made me free, and me live with him ever since.' 

' And what thoughts had you about your soul, all that 
lime before you went to America ?' I asked him. 

* Me no care for my soul at all before then. No man 
teach me a tvord about my soul.' 

* Well, now tell me farther about what happened to you 
in America. How came you there.' 

' My massa take me there in his ship, and he stop tJier© 
one month, and then rae hear the good minister."' 



37j Jfrican Servant ^^ 

' And what did that minister say ?' 

* He said me was a great sinner.' 

* What, did lie speak to you in particular ?' 

' Yes; me think so ; for* there was great many to hea.r 
him, but he teJl them all about me.' 

* What did he say ?' 

* He say, about a!J the things that were in my heart.' 
' What* things .?' 

' My sin, my ignorance, my know nothing, my believe 
nothing. The good minister* made nje see, that me think 
nothing good, nor do nothing good.' 

' And what else did he teli you ?' 

* He sometime look me in the face, and say, that Jesus 
Christ came to die for sinners, poor black sinners, as weli 
as white sinners. Me thought this was very good, very good 
indeed, to do so for wicked sinner.' 

' x\nd what made you think this was all spoken to you 
iB> particular .^' 

* Because me sure, no such wicked sinner as me in all 
the place. The good minister must know me was there.' 

' And what did you think about yourself, while lie preach* 
ed about Jesus Christ ?' 

' Sir, me was very much afraid, when he said the wicked 
must be turned into hell fire. For me felt, that me was very 
wicked sinner, and that make me cry. And he talk much 
about the love of Christ to sinners, and that make me cry 
more. And me thought me must love Jesus Christ ; but, 
me not know how, and that make me cry again,' 

' Did you hear more sermons than one, during that 
month .^' 

' Yes, sir ; massa give me leave to go three times, and 
all the times me wanted to love Jesus more, and do what 
Jesus said | but my heart seem sometime hard, like a stone.' 

' Have you ever heard any preaching since that time ?' 

' Never ; till me hear sermon at this church last Sunday, 
and then me long to be baptised in Jesus' name ; for me had 
no christian friends to baptise me^ when little child.' 

' And what have been your thoughts all the time since 
you first heard these sermons in America ; diu you tell any 
body then what you felt r' 

' No; me speak to nobody, but to God then. The good 
ixiinister say, that God hear the cry of the poor ; so me cry 



4 African Servant [28 

to God, and he hear me. And me often think about Jestis 
Christ, and wish to be like him.' 

* Can you read ?^ 
' A little.' 

* AVho taiight you to read r' 
' God teach me to read.' 

* What do you meai^ by saying so f 

' God give me desire to read, and that make reading 
easy. Massa give me Bible, and one sailor show me the 
ietters 5 and &o me learn to read by myself, with God's good 
help.' 

* And what do you read in the Bible ?' 

* O ! me read all about Jesus Christ, and how he loved 
sinners ; and wicked men killed him, and he died and came 
again from the grave, and all this for poor negro. And it 
«ometime make me cry, to think that Christ loved sq poor. 
iicgro.' 

* And what do the people say about your reading ayd 
praying, and attention to the things of God ?' 

* Some wicked people, that do not love Jesus Christ, 
call me great fool, and negro dog, and black hypocrite. 
And that make me sometime feel angry ; but, then me 
remember, Christian mu&t not be angry for that. Jesus 
Christ was called ugly, black names, and he was quiet as a 
iamb ; and so then me remember Jesus Christ, and me say 
nothing again t« them.' 

I was much delighted with the simplicity and apparent 
sincerity of this poor African ; and wished to ascertain what 
measure of light and feeling jie possessed on a few leading 

foiuts. St. Paul's summary of religion* occurred to me, 
said, ' Tell me, what is faith ? What is your own faith ? 
What do you believe about Jesus Christy and your own 
soul .?' 

* Me believe,' said he, ^that Jesus Christ came into the 
w orld to save sim;ers ; and though me be chief of sinners, 
yet Jesus will save me, though me be only poor black ne- 
gro.' 

' What is your hope ? What do you hope for, both as to 
this life, and that which is to come ?' 

* Now abideth faith, hope, charity ; the^e three ; but the gr-es^test 
of these is charitv, 1 Cor. xiii. 13. 



20] dfrican Servant. Q 

« Me hope, Christ Jesns will take good care of me, and 
keep me from sin and harm, while me live here : and me 
hope, when me come to die, to go and live with him always, 
and never die again,' 

' What are your thoughts about christian love or char- 
ity ? I mean, whom and what do yen most love ?' 

' Me love Gotl the Father, because he was so good to 
send his Son. Me love Jesus Christ, because he love me. 
Me love all men, black men and white men too ; for God 
made them all. Me love good christian people, because 
Jesus love them, and they love Jesus.' 

Such was my first conversation with this young disciple : 
I rejoiced in the prospect of receiving him into the church, 
agreeably to his wishes. I wished, however, to converse 
somewhat further, and inquire more minutely into his con- 
duct ; and promised to ride over and see him in a few days 
at his master's lodgings. 

When he was gone, 1 thought within myself, God hatli 
indeed redeemed souls by the blood of his Son, ' out of ev- 
ery kindred and tongue, and people, and nation.' If many 
of them for a season are devoted to earthly slavery, through 
the cruel avarice of man : yet, blessed be God, some among 
them are, through divine grace, called to the glorious lib- 
erty of the children of God ; and so are redeemed from the 
sliivery of him, who takes so many captive at his will. 

It is a happy thoiight that * Ethiopia shall soon strefch 
forth her hands unto God. Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of 
the earth. O sing praises unto the Lord !' 

Not many days after the first interview with my African 
disciple, I went from home on horseback with the design of 
visiting and conversing with him again at hismaster'&^liouse, 
which was situated in a part of the parish near four miles 
distant from my own. The road which I took lay over a 
lofty down or hill, which commands a prospect of scenery 
seldom equalled for beauty and magnificence. It gave birth 
to silent but instructive meditation. 

I east my eye downwards a little to the left, towards a 
small cove, the shore of which consists of fine hard sand. 
It is surrounded by fragments of rock, chalk cliffs, and steep 
hanks of broken earth. Shut out from human intercourse 
and dweUings, it seems formed for retirement and contem- 
plation* On one of these rocks I unexpeetefllv observed a 
1* 



ti African Servant [gr» 

niau sitting with a book which he was reading. The place 
was near two hundred yards perpendicularly below me ; 
but I soon discovered by his dress, and by the* black colour 
of'hiK features, contrasted with the white rocks beside him, 
that it was no other than my African disciple 5 with, as 1 
doubted not, a Bible in his hand. 1 rejoiced at this unlook- 
ed for opportunity of meeting him in so solitary and inter- 
esting a situation. I descended a steep bank, winding by 
a kind of rude stair case, formed by fishermen and shep- 
herd's boys in the side of the cliff down to the shore. 

He was intent on his book, and did not perceive me till I 
approached veiy near to him.. 

' William, is that you ?' 

* Ah ! massa, me very glad to see you. How come mas- 
sa into this place r Me* thought nobody here, but only God 
and me.' 

* I was coming to your master's house to see you, and 
rode round by this way for the sake of the prospect. 1 of- 
ten come here in fine weather, to look at the sea, and the 
shipping. Is that your Bible.' 

' Yes, sir, this is my dear, good Bible." 

* I am glad,' said I, ' to see you so well employed. It 
is a good sign, William.' 

' Yes, massa, a sign tliat God is good to nue ;. but me nev> 
PY good to God.' 

' How so ?' 

^ Me never thank him enough ; me never pray to him 
enough : me never remember enough, who give me all these 
good things. Massa, me afraid my heart very bad. Me 
wish me was like you.' 

' Like me, William ? Why, you are like me, a poor help- 
less sinner ; that must, like yourself, perish in his sins, un- 
less God of his infinite mercy and grace pluck him as a brand 
from the burning, and make him an instance of distinguish- 
ing love and favour. There is no difference ; we have both 
come short of the glory of God : all have sinned.' 

' No, me no like you massa; me think nobody like me, 
ijobody feel such a heart as me.' 

' Yes, William, your feelings, I am persuaded, are like 
those of every truly convinced soul, who sees the exceeding 
sinfubiess of sin, and the greatness of the price which Christ 
.Tesus paid for the sinner's ransom. You can say in the 
words of the hymn^ 



^ij Jfrkan Servant. f 

' I the chief of sinners am, 
* But Jesus died for me.' 

' O yes, sir, me believe that Jesus die for poor Degyo. 
What would become of poor wicked negro, if Christ no 
die for him. But he die for the chief of sinners, and that 
make my heart sometime quite glad.' 

' What part of the Bible were you reading, William.' 

' Me read how the man upon tlie cross spoke to Christ, 
and Christ spoke to hirn. Now that man's prayer just do 
for me. ' Lord, remember me ;' Lord, remember poor ne» 
gro sinner : this is my prayer every morning, and sometime 
at night too ; when me cannot think of many words, then 
me say the same again, Lord, remember poor negro sinner.' 

' And be assured, William, the Lord hears that grayer. 
He pardoned and accepted the thief upon the cross, and he 
will not reject you ^ he will in no wise cast out any that, 
come to him.' 

' No, sir, I believe it ; but there is so much sin in my 
heart, it make me afraid and sorry. Massa, do you seei 
these limpets,* how fast they stick to the rocks here ? Just 
so, sin stick fast to my heart.' 

' It may be so, William ; but take another comparison : 
do you cleave to Jesus Christ by faith in his death and 
righteousness, as those limpets cleave to the rock, and nei- 
ther seas nor storms shall separate you from his love ?' 

' That is just what me want.' 

' Tell me, William, is not that very sin, w liich you speak 
of, a burd-en to you ? You do not love it : you would be glad 
to obtain strength against it, and to be freed from it, would 
you not ?' 

' O yes ; me give all this world, if me had it, to be with- 
out sia.' 

' Come then, and welcome to Jesus Christ, my brother; 
his blood cleanseth from all sin. He gave himself as a 
purchase for sinners. He hath borne our griefs and carried 
our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions ; he 
was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our 
peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. 
The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Come> 
freely come to Jesus, the vSaviour of sinners.' 

* A kind of shell-fish which abounds in the place where we aVO^c^ 
and which sticks to the rocks with exceediug great force. 



6 African Servant. [d^ 

' Yes, massa,' said the poor fellow weeping, ' me will 
come, but me come very slow ; very slow, massa ; mo 
want to tun, mie want to fly. Jesus is very good to poor 
negro, to send you to tell him this.' 

' But this is not the first time you have heard these truths.* 

* No, sir, they have been comfort to my soul many times^ 
since me hear good minister preach in America, as me tell 
you last week at your house.' 

' Well, now 1 hope, William, that since God has been 
so graciously pleased to open your eyes, and affect your 
mind with such a great sense of his goodness, in giving his 
Son to die for your sake ; I hope, that you do your endeav- 
our to keep his commandments ; 1 hope you strive to be- 
have well to your master and mistress, and fellow servants. 
He that is a Christian inwardly, will be a Christian out- 
wardly ; he that truly and savingly believes in Christ, will 
shew hi^ faith by his works, as the apostle says. Is it not 
so, William .^' 

' Yes, sir, me want to do so. Me want to be faithful. 
Me sorry to think how bad servant me was, before the good 
thifigs of Jesus Christ come to my heart. Me wish to do 
well to my massa. when he see me, and when he not see 
me, for me know God always see me. 

' Me know that if me sin against mine own massa, me 
sin as^ainst God, and God be very angry with me. Beside, 
can me love Christ, if me not do what Christ tell me ? 

' Me love my fellow servants, though, as me tell you be* 
fore, they^not much love me, and I pray God to bless them. 
And when they say bad things, and try to make me an^ry, 
then me think, if Jesus Christ were in poor negro's place, 
lie would not revile and answer again with bad words and 
temper, but he say little, and pray much. And so then, me 
say nothing at all, but pray God to forgive them.' 

The more I conversed with this African convert, the, 
more satisfactory were the evidences of his mind being spir- 
itually enlightened, and his heart effectually wrought upon 
by the grace of God. 

I continued for a considerable time in conversation with 
the African, finding that his master was gone from home for 
the day, and had given him liberty for some hours. I spoke 
to him on the nature, duty, and privilege, of christian bap- 
tism J pointed out to Itim from a prayer book, which I had 



3:3] Jfrican Servant. %■ 

with ine, the clear and scriptural principles of our awn 
church upon that head, and found that he was very desirous 
of conforming to them. He appeared to me to he well 
qualified for receiving that sacramental pledge of his Re- 
deemer's love ; and 1 rejoiced in the prospect of beholding 
him na longer a * stranger and foreigner, bat a fellovv citi- 
zen with the saints, and of the household of God.' 

' God,' said 1 to him, * has promised to sprinkle many 
nations, not only with the waters of baptism, but also with 
the dews of his heavenly grace. He says, he will not only 
' pour water on him that is thirsty,' but, * I will pour my 
Spirit upon thy seed, and thy blessing upon thine oft'spring.' ' 

' Yes, massa,' said he, ' he can make me to be clean in 
heart, and of a right spirit ; he can purge me with hyssop, 
and I shall be clean ; he can wash me, and I shall be w hit-* 
er than snow.' 

' May God give you these blessings, and confirm you in 
every good gift.' 

I was mueh pleased with the affectionate manner in which 
he spoke of his parents, from whom he had been stolen ift 
his childhood ; and his wishes that God might direct thenv 
by some means to the knowledge of a Saviour. 

* Who knows,' 1 said, ' but some of these ships may be 
carrying a missionary to the country where they live, to de- 
clare the good news of salvation to your countrymen, and 
to your own dear parents in particular, if they are yet alive.' 

^- O ! my dear father and mother : my dear gracious Sa- 
vio?jr;' exclaimed he, leaping from the ground as he spoke, 
' if thou wilt but save their souls, and tell them what thou 
hast done for sinners — but — ' 

He stopped, and seemed much affected. 

' My friend,' said I, ' I will now pray with you for your 
own soul, and for those of your parents also,' 

' Do, massa, that is very good and kind, do pray for 
poor negro souls here and every where.' 

This was a new and solemn ' house of prayer.' The 
sea sand was our floor, the heavens were our roof, the cliffs, 
the rocks, the hills, and the waves, formed the walls of our 
chamber. It was not indeed a * place where prayer was 
went to be made;' but for this once, it became a hallowed 
spot : it w ill by me ever be remembered as such. The pres-^ 
ence of God was there.-r-^l prayed. — The African wept. 
His heart was full, I felt with him, and wept likewise*- 



10 *Bfrican Servant, [34 

The last clay will shew, whether our tears were not the 
tears of sincerity and christian love. 

It was time for my return, 1 leaned upon his arm, as we 
ascended the steep cliff in my way back to my horse, which 
I had left at the top of the hill. Humility and thankfulness 
were marked in his countenance. I leaned upon his arm 
with the feelings of a brother. It was a relationship 1 was 
happy to own. — 1 took him by the hand at parting, appoint- 
ed one more interview previous to the day of baptising him, 
and bid him farewell for the present. 

' God bless you, my dear massa.-' 

* And you my fellow Christian, forever and ever. Amen.' 

The interesting aud affecting conversation which 1 had 
with the African servant, produced a sensation not easy to 
be expressed. As I returned home, I was led into medita- 
tion on the singular clearness and beauty of those eviden- 
ces of faith and conversion to God, which 1 had just seen 
and heard. How plainly, I thought, it appears, that salva- 
tion is freely by grace through faith ; and that, not of our- 
selves ; it is the gift of God ; not of works, lest any man 
should boast. What but the Holy Spirit, who is the author 
and giver of the life of grace, could have wrought such a 
change from the once dark, perverse, and ignorant heathen, 
to this now convinced, enlightened, humlde, and believing 
Christian ? How manifestly is the uncontrolled sovereignty 
of the Divine will exercised in the calling and translating 
of sinners from darkness to light ! What a lesson may the 
nominal Christian of a civilized country sometimes learn 
from the simple, sincere religion of a converted heathen ! 

I afterwards made particular inquiry into this young man's 
domestic and general deportment. Every thing 1 heard 
was satisfactory ; nor could I entertain a doubt respecting 
the consistency of his conduct and character. I had some 
further conversations with him, in the course of which I 
pursued such a plan of scriptural instruction and examina- 
tion, as I conceived to be the most suitable to his progres- 
sive state of mind. He improved much in reading, carried 
his Bible constantly in his pocket, and took every opportu- 
nity which his duty to his master's service would allow, for 
perusing it. I have frequently had occasion to ohserve, that 
among the truly religious poor, who have not had the ad- 
vantage of learning to read in early youthj a concern sibotit 



35] African Servant, 11 

the soul, and desire to know the word of God, have proved 
effectual motives for their learning to read with great ease 
and advantage to themselves and others. It was strikingly 
so in the present ease. 

I had for a considerable time been accustomed to meet 
some serious persons once a week, in a cottage at no great 
distance from the house where he lived, for the purpose of 
religious conversation, instruction, and prayer. Having 
found these occasions remarkably useful and interesting to 
myself and others, 1 thought it would be very desirable -to 
take the African there, in order that there might be many 
witnesses to the simplicity and sincerity of real Christiani* 
ty, as exhibited in the character of this promising young 
convei t. I hoped it might prove an eminent means of grace 
to excite and quicken the spirit of prayer and praise among 
some, over whose spiritual progress 1 was anxiously watch- 
ing. 

I accordingly obtained his master's leave that he should 
attend me to one of my cottage assemblies. His master, 
although he did net himself appear to live under the influ- 
ence of real religion, or to manifest any serious concern re* 
specting his own state, yet was pleased with my attention to 
his servant, and always spoke well of his behaviour. ^ 

I set out on the day appointed for the interview. The 
house in which we were to meet was situated at the cor- 
ner of an oak wood, which screened it both from the burn- 
ing heat of summer suns, and the heavy blasts of winter 
south west storms. As I approached it, I saw my friend, 
the African, sitting under a tree, and waiting my arrival. 
He held in his hand a little Tract which I had given him ; 
his Bible lay on the ground. He rose with much cheerful- 
ness, saying, 

' Ah ! raassa, me very glad to see you, the think you 
long time coming.' 

' William, I hope you are well. I am going to take you 
with me to a few of my friends, who, 1 hope, are also the 
friends of the Lord. We meet every Wednesday evening 
for conversation about the things that belong to our ever- 
lasting peace, and I am sure you will be a welcome visiter.' 

' Massa, me not good enough to be with such good peo- 
ple. Me great sinner. They be e:ood Christian.' 

' If you were to ask them, William? they would each 



i2 African Servant, p86 

tell you, they were worse than any body. Many of them 
were once, and that not very lon^ ago, living in a very 
openly sinful manner, ignorant of God, and the enemies of 
Jesus Christ by thought and deed. But divine grace stop* 
ped them in their wicked course, and subdued their hearts 
to the love and obedience of him and his gospel. You will 
only meet a company of poor fellow sinners, who love to 
speak and sing the praises of redeeming love ; and 1 am 
sure, William, that is a song you will be willing to joia 
them in.' 

' O ! yes, sir, that song just do for poor William.' 

By this time we had arrived at the cottage garden gate. 
Several well known faces appeared in and near the house, 
and the smile of affection welcomed us as we entered. It 
was known that the African was to visit the little society 
this evening, and satisfaction beamed in every countenance, 
as I took him by the hand and introduced him among them, 
saying, ' I have brought a brother from Africa to see you, 
my friends. Bid him welcome in the name of the Lord.' 

' Sir,' said an humble and pious labourer, whose heart 
and tongue always overflowed with christian kindness, 
* %ve are at all times glad io see our dear minister, but es- 
pecially so today in such company as you have brought 
with you. We have heard how gracious the Lord has 
been to him. Give me yonr hand good friend, (turning to 
the African,) God be with you here and every where ; and 
blessed be his holy name for calling wicked sinners, as I 
hope he has done you and me, to love and serve him for his 
mercy's sake.' 

Each one greeted him as he came into the house, and 
some addressed him in very kind and impressive language. 

' Massa,' said he, ' me not know what to say to all these 
good friends ; me think this look like little heaven upon 
earth.' 

He then with tears in his eyes, which almost, before he 
spoke, brought responsive drops into those of all present, 
said, ' Good friends and brethren in Christ Jesus, God bless 
you all, and bring you to heaven at last.' 

It was my stated custom, when I met to converse with 
those friends, to begin with prayer and reading a portion 
of the Scriptures. 

When this was ended, I told the people present, that 



MfJ dfrkan Servant XB 

the providenee of God had brought this young man for a 
time under my ministry ; and that, finding him very seri- 
ously disposed, and believing him to be very sincere in his 
religious profession, I had resolved on baptising him, 
agreeably to his own wishes. I added that 1 had now 
wrought him with me to join in christian conversation with 
us ; for, as in old times, they that feared the Lord, spake 
often one to another as a testimony that they thought upon 
his name, (Mai. iii. 16.) so I hoped we were fulfilling a 
christian and brotherly duty in thus assembling for mutual 
edification. 

Addressing myself to the African, I said, ' William, tell 
me, who made you ?' 

' God, the good Father,' 

^ Who redeemed you ?' 

' Jesus, his dear Son, who died for me.' 

^ Who sanctified you ?' 

* The Holy Ghost, who teach me to know the good Fa- 
ther, and his dear Son Jesus.' 

' What was your state by nature ?' 
' Me wicked sinner, me know nothing but sin, me do no- 
thing but sin, my soul more black than my body.' 

* Has any change taken place in you since then ?' 

* Me hope so, massa, but me sometime afraid no.' 
' If you are changed, vvho changed you?' 

* God, the good Father ; Jesus, his dear Son ; and God 
the Holy Spirit.' 

' How was any change brought about in yon ?' 
^ God make me a slave, when me was young little boy.' 
^ How, William, v/ould you say, God made you a slave ^^ 
' No, massa, no : me mean God let me be made slave by 

%vhite men, to do me good.' 
^ How to do you good ?' 
' He take me from the land of darkness, and brine; me lo 

the land of light.' 

' Which do you call the land of liglit 5 the West India 

islands ?' 

' No, massa, they be the land of providence, but x\mer- 

ica be the land of light to me ; for there me first hear good 

minister preach. And now this place, where I am now, 

is the land of more light ; for here you teach me more and 

more how good Jesus is to sinners.' 
No. IJII, .2 1—3 



li African Servant, [oS 

' What does the blood of Christ do ?' 

' It cleanse from all siu. And so me hope from my sin.' 

' Are then ail men cleansed from sin by his blood P 

' O no, massa.' 

< Who 

' Those tiiat have faith in him.' 

' Can you prove that out of the Bible r^ 

' Yes, sir, '* He that believeth on the Son, hath everlast- 
ing life ; and he that believeth not the Son, shall not see 
life, but the wrath of God abideth on him»"' John iii. 36. 

' What is it to have faith .?' 

' Me suppose that it is to think much about Jesus Christ, 
to love him much, to believe all he says to be true, to pray 
to him very much ; and when me feel very weak, and very 
sinful, to think that he is very strong, and very good, and 
all that for my sake.' 

^ And have you such a faith as you describe ?' 

* O 1 massa, me think sometime me have no faith at all/ 

* Why so, \yilliam ?' 

' When me want to think about Jesus Christ, my mind 
run about after other things : when me wa*it to love him, 
my heart seem quite cold ! when me want to believe all to 
be true what he says to sinnei*s, me then think it is not true^ 
for me ; when me want to pray, the devil put bad, very bad 
thoughts into me, and me never thank Christ enough. Now 
all this make me sometime afraid I have no faith.' 

I observed a very earnest glow of attention and fellow 
feeling in some countenanees present as he spoke these 
Mords. I then said, 

* I think, William, I can prove that you have faith, 
notwithstanding your fears to the contrary. Answer me 
a few more questiong. 

' Did you begin to think yourself a great sinner, and to 
feel the want of a Saviour, of your own self, and by your 
own thought and doing .P' 

' Oh ! no, it came to me, when me think nothing about 
it, and seek nothing about it.' 

' Who sent the good minister in America to awaken 
your soul by his preaching?' 

' God, very certainly.' 

* Who then began the work of serious thought and 
feeling in your mind B^ 



Mj Jfrlcan Servant, ±3 

' The good God : me could not do it of myself, me sure 
of that.' 

' Do you not think that Jesus Christ and his salvation is 
the one thing most needful and most desirable ?' 

' O ! yes, me quite sure of that.' 

^ Do you not believe that he is able to save you ?' 

' Yes, he is able to save to the uttermost.' 

* Do you think he is not willing to save you ?' 

' Me dare not say that. He so good, so merciful, so 
kind to say, he will in no wise cast out any that come to 
him.' 

' Do you wish and desire and strive to keep his com- 
mandments ?' 

' Yes, raassa, because me love him, and that make me 
^vant to do as he say.' 

' Are you willing to suffer for his sake, if God should 
call you to do so ?' 

* Me do think me could die for tlie love of him ; he not 
think it too much to die for wicked sinner; why should 
wicked sinner think it much to die for so good and righ- 
teous a Saviour ?' 

' I think and hope I may say to you, William, thy faith 
hath made thee whole.' 

Thus ended my examination for the present. The other 
friends who were in the house listened with the most af- 
fectionate anxiety to all that passed. One of them observ- 
ed, not witlwut evident emotion, 

' I see, sir, that though some men are white, and some 
are black, true Christianity is all of one colour. My own 
heart has gone with this good man every word he has spok- 
en.' ' And so has mine,' gently re-echoed from every 
part of the room. 

After some time passed in more general conversation on 
the subject of the African's history. I said, • Let us now 
praise God, for the rich and unspeakable gift of his grace, 
and sing the hymn of" redeeming love" — 
Now begin the heavenly theme, 
Sing aloud in Jesus' name, &;c. 

Which was accordingly done. Whatever was the merit 
of the natural voices, it was plain there was melody in all 
their hearts. The African was not much used to our way of 
singing, yet joined with great earnestness and affection, tjiat 



j.6 Jlfrican Servani. [40 

showed liow truly he felt what was uttered. When the 
fil'th verse was ended, 

Nothing brought him from above ; 
Nothing but redeeming love ; 

he repeated the words almost unconscious where he was, 
' No, nothing, nothing but redeeming love bring him 
down to poor William ; nothing but redeeming love.' 

The following verses were added, and sung by way of 
conclusion : — 

See a stranger comes to view ; 
Though he's black,* he's comely too ; 
Comes to join the choirs above, 
Singing of redeeming love. 

Welcome, Negro, veelcome here, 
Banish doubt and banish fear, 
You, who Christ's salvation prove. 
Praise and bless redeeming love. 

I concluded with some remarks on the nature of salvation 
by grace, and exhorted all present to press forward in the 
heavenly race. It was an evening, the circumstances of 
whiclj, had they never been recorded on earth, were yet 
doubtless registered in the book of remembrance above. 

I then fixed the day for the baptism of the African, and 
so took leave of my little affectionate circle. 

In a few days the African was baptised ; and not long^ 
after he went on a voyage with his master. 

Since that time I have not been able to hear any tidings 
of him : whether he yet wanders as a pilgrim in this lower 
world, or whether he has joined the heavenly elioir in the 
song of redeeming love in glory, I knov*' not. This I do 
know, he was a monument of the Lord's praise. He bore 
the impression of the Saviour's image on his heart, .ind ex- 
hibited the marks of converting grace in his life and con- 
versation, with singular simplicity and unfeigned sincerity. 
— O ! give to God the glory. 

* Song of Solomon, i. 5. 

ANDOVER : 

PRINTED FOR THE NEW ENGLAND TRACT SOCIETY 
BY FLAGG AND GOULD. 

1816. [3d Edit. 6000. 



i 



