
/ 



C^VX^i^^ 




fltrfjrii* H wtvtm* 



SECOND EDITION, 






Andover, Printed by Flagg & Gonld- 
Copy right secured 



AFRICA. 



In the sublimity of Nature's silence, 

Profound, thou sitt'st a queen among the nations ; 

And mark'st, with regal pride, thy wide domain. 

Thy trackless deserts, unexplored by man, 

Spread 'neath the smile of heaven's meridian sun. 

Shining in vain upon their barrenness : 

While sister realms, rejoicing in his beams, 

His kindly influence own, and grateful bloom, 

Adorned with richest fruits, and fairest flowers. 

Thy mountains dark, magnificently rude, 

Sky-bearing Atlas owning as their peer, 

Lift their proud heads to heav'n. Thy golden mines 

Yield their bright treasures to thy diadem. 

Within thy spreading borders, generous Nile, 

King of thy rivers, with a monarch's pride, 

Majestic rolls his deep and mighty waters, 

Bearing fertility through all his range. 

Here Niger winds his silent, secret way, 

Where human step has never trod, sublime 

In the dark myst'ry of his untrack'd course. 

Populous and powerful kingdoms rise to adorn 



AFRICA, 



Thy far-extending sceptre. — With fix'd gaze 

Departed ages, in their mighty march, 

Have mark'd thy greatness. On thy land arose, 

Cloudless and beautiful, the glorious smile 

Of star-crown'd Science, empress of the mind ; 

Beyond Tradition's power to tell the day 

When her bright eye first beam'd upon thy sight 

When Time was y<5ung, divine Philosophy, 

Casting abroad through Nature's boundless realms 

Her piercing glance, pursued her lofty march 

Of moral grandeur, visited thy shores, 

And there, content, made her illustrious home. 

The list'ning world has heard of Egypt's fame : 

The arts of life flourished unrivall'd here, 

Ere polished Greece was known, or the fair name 

Of classic Italy, had pleased the ear. 

She still survives :— Egypt, whose mighty works, 

Proud in unmov'd, unbending loftiness, 

Mock the rude power of Time, and smile at ocean's roar 

Rising in beauty, see the far-famed Thebes, 

Queen of thy cities, with her hundred gates : — 

Thebes, the proud theme of poesy ; the boast, 

Of those who love to mark the historic page 

With glorious names, whose deathless fame shall live, 

Till years shall cease to move their wonted rounds. 

Memphis, renown'd of old, survives in story. 

Where Pharos' lofty tower, of spotless marble, 

Rises in silent majesty, the wonder „ 

Of passing ages, and a gazing world, 

See Alexandria, rich in classic lore, 



AFRICA. 



Once the fam'd seat of splendid royalty, 
Magnificent in ruin, meets the eye 
That loves to view the distant step of years, 
Gone by forever, mingling silently 
With that eventful day when Time was born. 
What monuments of ancient glory mark 
That site where, erst, imperial Dido rear'd 
The lofty walls and towers of royal Carthage ! 
Rival of splendid Rome, and mistress of the wave. 
Here Juno's beauteous fane the princess rais'd, 
Magnificent, and brought to grace its state, 
Gifts worthy of a queen : and here, reflecting 
The glorious splendors of the mid-day sun, 
Apollo's golden temple charm'd the eye. 
The living monuments of human skill 
Have long survived their builders. With a voice 
Mighty in silence, they proclaim the frailty 
Of hands, that wrought for latest time ; — the power, 
Which death can ne'er destroy, of minds, that plann'd 
Deeds so stupendous : — minds, the wondrous work 
Of that great Architect, whose powerful word 
Call'd the fair fabric of the universe 
From night and chaos ; — whose almighty hand 
On gloomy nothing hung the pond'rous earth ; — 
Who spread with matchless skill the starry heavens, 
And gave the sun his light : — whose inspiration 
Bestows on man the wisdom and the power, 
Which make his works immortal. 
Land of the Palm ! the passing flood of time, 
The rush of years unnumber'd, has not swept 
1* 



AFRICA. 



Thy glory from the earth. Flourishing cities, 
And royal palaces, and splendid fanes, 
Proclaim thee empress still. — Commercial Cairo 
Sends her white sails over the mountain wave ; 
Her num'rous spires in silent grandeur rise ; 
Her lofty ramparts give the wond'ring eye 
A scene magnificent and beautiful, 
Which holds in worldless joy, the stranger's gaze. 
And see, invincible in Nature's strength, 
Where rock-built Constantina now succeeds 
To famous Cirta, once Numidia's bulwark. 
Thy beauteous valley, Fez, in olden time 
Fair Science' favour'd home, presents a view 
Luxuriant and lovely. — Dark Algiers, 
Like a proud princess, from her hilly throne, 
Looks out in glory on the stormy sea, 
The admiration of the mariner. 
Thy kingdoms, Nubia, Bornou, Cashna, spread, 
Powerful and wide, where the advent'rous step 
Of foreign man has seldom dar'd to explore. — 
Empress of ancient time ! with pensive sigh 
Thou gazest on the ruins of the past, 
In desolation grand ! With regal joy 
Thou mark'st the glories of thy later day ; 
And still thy proud eye smiles upon thy realms, 

For still thou art a queen. What dismal sound 

Bursts fearfully on the astonish'd ear, 
Chilling the heart with nameless dread — hist ! hist ! 
The wailings of deep-felt woe, as if the sword 
Of desolation, with reckless force, had sever'd 



AFRICA. 

The tenderest ties that bind man to his kind ; 

Leaving the heart in untold agony, 

Bleeding at every pore, with wounds so deep, 

That human accents cannot speak their pain, 

And earth can yield no balm to sooth their anguish. 

Again ! — what mean these shouts of misery ? 

It is the voice of lamentation deep ! 

Ah ! why does she who lately stood a queen, 

Now, clothed in sackcloth, spurn the hand of pity. 

Refusing to be comforted ? — She weeps 

Her captive sons, rent from her bleeding bosom, 

And leaving there a grief " that will not heal." 

A demon hand tears from the mother's arms 

The smiling babe, and gives the years of manhood 

To toil, and bitterest woe. — How many hearts, 

Rich in the charities of Nature, bleed 

Over the miseries of kindred hearts, 

Exil'd from home and country ! Slavery ! 

This is thy work ! ! 

Shame ! shame ! the son of heaven, the lord of earth, 
Noble, erect, born in the image of God, 
Rears his bold front, and buys, and sells — his brother ! 
Traffics in human flesh ! — Oh ! hide thy face, 
Proud man ! — let darkness cover thee forever ; 
Lest the bright sun should blush to see thy deeds. 

The fell Simoom, 
On whose dark wing Death rides in dreadful triumphs 
Is gentle as the breath of early morn, 
Is soft as spring's first zephyrs, when compar'd 
With thy foul atmosphere, Oppression, fraught 



AFRICA. 



With direst woe to every living thing 
That comes within its blasting influence. 

Thy sandy wilds, Zahara, 
Bloom with the charms of Eden, to the land, 
Accurs'd, where Slav'ry wields his iron sceptre. 
The basilisk, that lures with deadly charm 
His unresisting victim, is kind and harmless. — 
Lybia ! the dreadful natives of thy deserts 
Are gentle and tame — the monsters of thy rivers, 
Noxious no more, are beautiful, and mild ; — 
The treacherous crocodile is fair as day — 
Serpents, and horrible things, of deadliest name, 
Are lovely, to the fiend in human form, 
Who enslaves his fellow ! — 'tis a monstrous sight ! 
In deep abhorrence nature stands aghast ! 
And all that's noble in man, cries out in shame 
At the foul deed ! 

Can beings, 
Who dwell beneath the fostering smile of heaven, 
And gaze upon creation's loveliness, 
Commit such acts abhorrent I — Regal power 
Has given its royal sanction to deeds at which 
Angels might weep ! — Aye ! boasted human law 
Has wink'd at crime ! — The mighty and the mean, 
Have join'd in a vile trade, on whose black works 
The stars of heaven might be asham'd to shine ! 

But there is yet on earth, — 
Even on this globe where man degrades his name, 
One bless' d asylum from the tyrant's power ; 



AFRICA. 

One dear retreat, where the oppress'd is free. 
Land of the happy ! there the race of man, 
Link'd in one holy tie of brotherhood, 
Worship one common Father ; and the path 
Of human pilgrimage cheer with the flowers ; — 

The beauteous flowers of mutual love and kindness - 

Land of the free — the happy ! — in thy bosom 
The slave will find a refuge, — -Weary, sick, 
At scenes of human woe, and human crime, 
Fair western world — asylum for the wretched — 
My travelled spirit seeks thy peaceful realm, 
Where Oppression's arm must wither 5 and the fiend 
Would never dare to utter his demon voice, 
Even in a whisper. — Sad and weary heart ! 
Turn thee, with pensive joy, to seek thy home. 

. . Is it a dream 1 

A wild and dreadful vision of the night, 

When deep sleep falls on man ! or do I see, 

In waking horror, aftnonstrous form, so frightful, 

That human language finds no softer name 

To express its hideous deformity, 

Than Slavery — direst sound ! — Is it a dream ? 

Or do I hear a voice of dreadful import, 

The wild and mingling groans of writhing millions. 

Calling for vengeance on my guilty land ! 

Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes 
A fount of tears ! — Columbia ! in thy bosom 
Can slavery dwell ? — Then is thy fame a lie ! 
Oppression lifts his hideous, gorgon head, 
Beneath the eve of Freedom I ! — Oh ray country ! 



10 AFRICA. 

This deep anathema — this direst evil, 

" Like a foul blot on thy dishonour'd brow," 

Mars all thy beauty ; and thy far-fam'd glory 

Is but a gilded toy, for fools to play with ! 

For in the mock'ry of thy boasted freedom, 

Thou smil'st, with deadly joy, on human woe ! 

Thy soil is nourish'd with tears and blood ! — Columbia ! 

O let the deepest blush of honest shame 

Crimson thy cheek ! for vile Oppression walks 

Within thy borders ! — rears his brazen front 

'Neath thy unchiding eye ! — Oh tell it not 

In Gath, lest those who worship idol gods 

Laugh thee to scorn, and cry, in mad derision, 

Behold what Christians do !* 

Will the spirit 
Of free-born man yield to the galling chain, 
Which binds his flesh ? Can toil, and stripes, and death, 
Subdue the soul r — Oppression's ruthless hand 
May fetter the limbs : — the immortal mind is free. 
Let tyrants tremble on their tott'ring thrones ! 
Let the proud man who dares to call his brother, 
Form'd by the same Hand that gave him life, 
By the vile name of Slave, start with dismay, 
Like him of old, Belshazzar, when, (all else 
Invisible, wrapt in the dreadful veil 
Of mystery,) a hand, the monarch saw, 

* It ought to be remembered, with deep self-abasement, that the slave trade has 
found the mass of its abettors among nations nominally Christian. According to 
the most judicious calculations, Africa has been drained annually of 150,000 of its 
inhabitants ; and — shameful acknowledgment ! the great receptacles of this unhap- 
py race have been the West Indies, and the United States. A million and a half are- 
supposed to exist in our own free country. Mem. of Rev. S. J. Mills, pp. 121, 122. 



AFRICA. 1 1 

(Belonging not to earth,) writing his doom, 

In worlds felt, though they could not be decipher'd. 

There is a spirit in man, that will not bend 

To the tyrant's frown ! — Mark yon portentous cloud, 

Rising from ocean's bosom. — See ! it spreads, 

More dense and dreadful. — Is it the distant noise 

Of mutt'ring thunder — ('tis a strange, wild sound !) 

That breaks so fearfully upon the sense ? 

As the mad mingling of many voices 

It steals on the affrighted ear of night ; 

And all again is calm and still as death ! 
****** * 

The storm has burst ! — Ah ! that tremendous crash 
Shook the strong hold of giant Tyranny ; 
And rent the prison walls of captive thousands. 
— Rejoice, Humanity ! the slave is free !* 
In the proud liberty which Nature gave 
He stands, a man, and lo ! his cruel tyrant 
Quakes, like a coward, 'neath his blazing eye. 

All ! still the sound is heard, 
Of lamentation deep, of anguish wild, 
Within thy borders, boasted land of Freedom ! 
Columbia ! thou the poet's glorious theme ; 
The patriot's pride ; whose mild and equal laws 
The high-soul'd statesman charm ; and cheer the heart 
Of blest Philanthropy. — Among thy mountains, 
The battlements of nature, Liberty, 

* The Revolution in St. Domingo, to use the language of an able writer, " threw 
upon the world two organized and independent states of Negroes, a sight never be-' 
fore witnessed, and that too by an awful eruption in the centre of that part of the 
world which is most deeply laclen with sins against Africa." 



12 AFRICA. 

Weary of courts, with a proud smile has plac'd 

Her eagle-home : — and yet — Oh shame ! shame ! shame ! 

The wailings of the Slave are heard within thee ! 

—But hark ! a voice sweet as the songs of heaven, 

Pours on the ear delightful melody, 

Charming the soul to peace.— It is the voice 

Of holy Charity, breathing in sounds 

Blissful and pure, Let the oppressed go free ! 

Millions of hearts, touch'd by the love of heaven, 

With lofty joy respond the harmonious strains, 

Let the oppressed go free ! — Thou great Deliverer ! 

Who cam'st from glory to redeem the slave ; — 

To preach a full salvation to the lost, 

And joy to mourners — 'twas the pure religion 

Taught by thy voice divine, inspir'd the strain. — 

It was the spirit of thy Gospel, breath'd 

That holy, happy song, omnipotent 

In melody, and melting cruel hearts 

To tenderest deeds of love. — Fair Pity weeps 

Tears of delight. — My raptur'd spirit ! hail, 

With joy unspeakable, and full of glory, 

A blissful hour, a bright and cloudless morn, 

Rising in beauty on the land I love ! 

For see ! the hydra-monster, Slavery, 

Flies from that land, in dire dismay, to hide 

His horrid visage in eternal night. 

Fair dreams of hope, visions of future time, 

All beautiful and glorious, rise before me. — 

Children of Afric ! poor afflicted ones ! 

The day will come, when all your wrongs shall cease.. 



AFRICA* 13 

The day will come, when Slav'ry's iron rod 

No more shall wound. — Ye shall return in peace 

To your own land — Your natal shores shall echo 

With shouts of praise — The songs of captives ransom'd 

From th' power of the enemy, shall sound 

Through all your realms, and fill the world with joy. 

In glad expectance of that blissful day, 

Already see, with looks of soul-felt peace, 

A little band, the happy pioneers 

Of exile hearts restor'd, and ransom'd millions, 

Led by a noble spirit of that race* 

Which long has writh'd beneath Oppression's power, 

Towards ocean turn their animated steps, 

To seek their fathers' land : — their fathers, torn 

With ruthless hand from the delights of home, 

The sympathies of kindred and affection, 

And all those tender, powerful, nameless, ties, 

Which bind the heart to the land that gave it being. 

With smiles of hope they trust the friendly wave ; 

And soon the winds of heaven shall waft them home. 

We gaze a kind farewell, with tears of love. 

* Paul Cuffee was a distinguished ornament of the African race ; and though ed- 
ucated in all the obscurity and penury of the great body of men of colour, rose to 
<affluence, respectability, and distinction, by the energy of a mind that was equal to 
the noblest enterprise, and the benevolence of a heart singularly devoted to doing 
good. Long will the sympathies of Paul be remembered in behalf of degenerate Af- 
rica. No cause lay nearer his heart than the intellectual, civil, and moral elevation 
of that injured people. To advance this cause he undertook, at his own expense, and 
in his own vessel, an expedition to the British settlement at Sierra Leone. He 
went to England for the purpose of suggesting his views to the managers of the Af- 
rican Institution, and after his return made a second voyage to Sierra Leone, carry- 
ing with him about forty persons of his own colour, with the view of commencing 
a settlement on the soil of his fore-fathers, having expended in the enterprise nearly 
$4000 from his own privite resources. Mem. of Rev. S. J. Mills. 

It will be recollected that the expedition of Paul was made previous to the forma- 
tion of the American Colonization Society. The writer hopes that its introdution 
as a subsequent event will be pardoned as an acknowledged anachronism. 

2 



14 AFRICA. 

— But who is this meets our returning view f 

His heaven-ward eye is bright with holy hope? 

And Charity's celestial smile : — and see ! 

Another — and another, animate 

With pure benevolence, and Christian zeal ; 

FilPd with that love whose generous sympathies 

Regard all nations, and embrace a world, 

Pursue their pathless way through storm and darkness, 

To the land whose wrongs have fill'd their waking thoughts, 

And grieved with dreams of woe their nightly rest. 

Their prayer is heard ! they reach that injur'd land : — 

They meet her noble sons.* Her lofty chiefs 

Extend the generous hand, kind nature's token, 

And greet the strangers with a smile of peace. 

And now, beneath the canopy of heaven, 

Within the luxuriant shade of orange groves, 

They meet in friendly council with the men 

From a clime beyond the ocean ; and discourse, 

With mutual confidence, for Afric's good, 

Seeking her peace. — And see that aged man, 

Over whose venerable head have fallen 

The snows of many a winter, feebly turns 

His tott'ring steps, and asks, in accents mild, 

Of those who on a pilgrimage of kindness 

Cross'd the tempestuous wave, the word of God,f 

* I am struck with wonder at the appearance of the native Africans. The sickly 
and depressed countenance of a Philadelphia coloured man is not to be seen amongst 
them. A noble aspect, a dignified mien — a frank and open countenance, — the en- 
tire demeanor of the wild man ! — Sir, it is worth a voyage to Africa to see the Kroo- 
men. — Extract from a private letter of the late Rev. Samuel Bacon, Agent of the, 
American Government for persons liberated from slave ships on the coast of Africa . 

f One man, whose hair and beard were white with age, said he wished to heav 
mor e about God's Book before he died. Mem. of Rev. S. J. Mills. 



AFRICA. 15 

That he may hear, and live. And there is one, 
A youth of princely blood, and lofty port.* 
He feels the desolation of his land, 
And mourns her griefs. — His dark and pensive eye 
Is fixed upon the strangers ; and with hope, 
Shaded by fear, he marks the cloudless day 
When foreign foot-steps press'd his native shore. 
* * - # * : * ■.' * . - * ...'.* 

The noiseless wing of Time. 
Unwearied in his mighty energies, 
Sublime, yet viewless, silent, yet unceasing, 
Has number'd years. — Death has pursued his march 
Through earth, and many a mighty one has fallen 
Beneath his stroke resistless. — Deeds of fame 
Have been achiev'd. — The mad and busy world 
Repeats its giddy rounds, and laughs, and dies ! 
Yet, land belov'd ! thy cause is not forgot. 
O there are hearts, even in this heartless world, 
Cherish for thee one bright and precious hope : 
Thy glad deliv'rance from the barb'rous hand 
Of human bondage, and thy blest release 
From that more cruel yoke which binds the soul. 
T he lofty powers of mind are engaged for thee. 
Manly and noble spirits are at work 
In thy dear cause, for thy eternal peace. 
For thee Affection breathes her gentle sigh ; 

* Kong Couber walked along the shore with us, and giving us his hand, said, " God 
bless you, and give you a good voyage to your country." While we gave sail he sat 
down under an orange tree, apparently pensive and melancholy. This prince is con- 
scious of the depressed condition of his people, and the barbarous state of his coun- 
try. He sighs for their improvement. Mem. of Rev. S. J. Mills. 



16 AFRICA. 

For woman's heart, in its deep, pure tenderness. 

Remembers Africa. — How many prayers 

Ascend for thy salvation, in the name 

Of that high Priest, who bears upon his heart 

The oppress'd and sorrowful ! — and — dearer title ! 

In the name of that good Shepherd, who hath said. 

And other sheep I have, not of this fold; 

Them also I must bring ; and they shall hear 

My voice, and there shall be onefold, one Shepherd: 

Who are these. 
With holy, happy smile, and solemn step, 
Entering the consecrated house of prayer, 
As if they lov'd to tread its sacred aisles ? 
& * # ■■,..'.* ■ -.£*■-- # , .- * '. 2 * 

Delightful scene ! 
I view it still.* Divine Philanthropy 
Smil'd on the glorious work.- — The church of God 
Bless'd the propitious hour. — A multitude 
Stood in the stillness of entranced hope, 
And breathless expectation. — Witnesses 
Invisible were there ! — Myriads of spirits, 
Redeem'd from earth, hover'd around the place 
With joy that swells to sweeter, loftier strains, 
The songs of heaven, when one repenting sinner 
Turns to his God, and meets forgiving love. 
The shining hosts above — the orders bright 
Of angels, natives of th' etherial plains, 
Bend from their seats of bliss, and for a moment 

* This little poem was suggested by the recollection of the recent services in Park 
Street meeting house, Boston, for the purpose of organizing an African church, con 
sisting of persons about to embark for the Colony at Liberia. 



AFRICA. 17 

Forget their golden harps, their hymns of joy.— « 
Silence sublime ! 

The prayer of faith ascends 
For the little exile band, naming themselves 
By Israel's name, — subscribing with their hands 
To Israel's God. — Then bursts the rapt'rous strain 
Of glory and of praise, from countless myriads ! 
As on the birth-day of a new creation 
The morning stars again together sing ; 
And all the sons of God shout with new joy 
The holy melody of that blest anthem, 
Which gladden'd mortal ear when Judea's shepherds 
Watch'd midst the starry night. — Glory to God — - 
On earth peace- — and good ivill to offending man. 
The deed of that blest hour is register'd 
In the archives of Eternity ! — what tongue 
Shall dare predict the effect unspeakable, 
Forming a link in that mysterious chain 
Connecting Time and Heaven !—- The grand result 
Belongs, Eternity, to thee ! — The power 
Of Seraphs cannot grasp it !— Finite minds, 
Howe'er in knowledge elevate, in thought 
Profound, are impotent to reach the deep,— 
The mighty secret ! — But the glorious future ; — ■ 
The long, the interminable day of heaven, 
When Suns are dark, and Time shall be no more, 
Will prove the amazing influence of that hour, — ■ 
That little hour ! upon the happiness 
Of multitudes born for immortal life. 
'Tis done ! — Upon the dark and troubled deep. 



18 AFRICA. 

A little ark, guarded by Hiin who holds 

Within their appointed bounds the mighty waves, 

Bears to the bosom of their native land 

The infant church. — Afric S thy exile sons 

Come home to thee with joy, bringing the Word, 

— The precious word of life, to cheer thy shores 

With tidings of Salvation.— Thou ! whose voice, 

Omnipotent in its almighty love, 

Speaks to the raging storm, and all is calm ! 

In safety lead this little ransom'd band 

Through the wilderness of waters, as of old 

Thy people thou didst lead, through pathless wilds, 

To th' Land of Promise. — Let thy matchless power 

Guide and protect them — thy parental love 

Bless them, and give them peace.— 

Bright ey'd Hope ? 
To thy fair shores, Liberia, wings her flight, 
Companion'd by her elder sister, Faith, 
And heaven-descended Charity. — They hail 
The destin'd home of ocean's pilgrims. — Here 
Nature assumes her loveliest smiles, to greet 
The oppressed set free. — My ardent spirit seeks, 
Swifter than winds and waves, the blooming realm, 
And waits to hail the exile band reslor'd 
To their fathers' birth place. — See ! the sails are furl'd. 
They come ! — they raise upon the sea-beat shore 
Their song of praise to Him who held the waters 
In his almighty hand, who bade the tempest 
Be still, and all was peace. 
Within this beauteous land has the sweet voice 



AFRICA. 19 

Of praise to the true God gladden'd the ear 

Of listening nature ere this happy hour ? — 

— Hark ! — even now I heard celestial strains 

Mingle unutterably with the songs 

Of those who love, though they have never seen, 

Their ascended Lord. — And see ! what forms of light, 

Hov'ring around this little band, appear 

Like visitants from heaven. — These are the spirits. 

Made perfect, of men who died for love of thee, 

Poor Africa ! — and now their ransom'd souls, 

Redeem'd from death, joy in tfye rising light 

Of a blest day, whose glorious dawn they hail'd 

On that dear land in which their faithful hearts 

Repose in hope, resting in Him who died 

That man might live, — -in Him who is alive 

For ever more. 

What visions rise 
Before the eye of Faith ! — my spirit, burst 
Thy earthly tenement, and look abroad, 
With raptured inspiration, on the land, 
For which, with love that waters cannot quench, 
The self-devoted Mills resigned his breath, 
And made his grave in ocean. — On the land 
Where Bacon, pure and ardent being ! sleeps. 
In Him, the Resurrection and the life. 
See ! this devoted band from distant shores, 
More firmly plant in their own fathers' land 
The glorious standard of the Prince of peace, 
Rais'd by their elder brothers in that cause, 



20 AFRICA. 

Which must prevail, till Ethiopia, 
In all her realms, shall stretch her hands to God. 
Yes ! the untiring eye of holy Faith 
Pierces the intervening clouds, that darken 
Her glorious prospect. — Where the orgies fell 
Of idol gods were kept, the human knee 
Bows in the name of Jesus ; and the heart 
Of rebel man yields to redeeming love, 

And owns him Lord. See ! demon temples fall 

Before the march sublime of pure religion. 

Listen ! — The praises of the great I AM 

Sound where the heart-appalling shouts were heard 

Of demon worship. — — Africa ! the Spirit 

Of peace shall dwell within thee. — 'Neath its power 3 

Mighty in love, Oppression's iron arm 

Shall be subdu'd. — To thy maternal bosom 

Thy captive sons shall flock, as weary doves, 

And find repose. One universal shout 

Proclaims, O Africa, thy children free — 

Thy days of mourning ended. 'Tis the song 

Of holy triumph !— thy accepted year 
Has come, — thy eternal year of Jubilee. 



