PROPERTY OF THE 



V\ 



i&&mk 



mm 




/f s f/svJP/MMjL 





• 1 




WU3? 




vji w-i m 




2 ® 




3 




<B 




3 




g g £ s 




p m a *g 




r c* # a 




O (S 




a ** a 




* 9 • 




i 




M Q 




• " ® 




*• 




pk» h 




b «& 




M ■ 




'5 « 




■o 


\ 


» ^ 








g ^ 




$\ ^ 




<• 0£ 




<J 




§5 




* 



• \ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lecturesofgeorgeOOthom 



LECTURES 



GEORGE THOMPSON, 



WITH A FULL REPORT OF THE DISCUSSION BETWEEN MR. THOMPSON 
AND MR. BORTHWICK, THE PRO-SLAVERY AGENT, HELD AT 
THE ROYAL AMPHITHEATRE, LIVERPOOL, (ENG.) AND 
WHICH CONTINUED FOR SIX EVENINGS WITH UN- 
ABATED INTEREST : COMPILED FROM VARIOUS 
ENGLISH EDITIONS. — ALSO, A BRIEF 



HISTORY OF HIS CONNECTION 



WITH THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE 



IN ENGLAND 



BY WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY ISAAC KNAPP. 

1S3G. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 183&, by 

Isaac Knapp, 
In the Clerk's office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 



Printed by Isaac Knapp. 



Mr. THOMPSON IN ENGLAND. 



In the spring of 1833, I was sent to England as the 
representative of the New England Anti-Slavery Socie- 
ty, to undeceive the philanthropists of that country, (who 
had been misled by Elliot Cresson,) in relation to the 
character and designs of the American Colonization 
Society, and to enlist their moral energies for the ex- 
tinction of American slavery. Convicted of double- 
dealing, cowardice, and imposture, Mr. Cresson soon 
afterward left England in disgrace, and returned to 
a country, whose prejudices and oppressions enable 
him to pursue his mischievous work with more facility 
and success. Most happily for my mission, I found on 
my arrival in London, a large body of anti-slavery dele- 
gates, the elite of the cause, assembled from various 
parts of the kingdom, to watch the progress of the 
Emancipation Bill through Parliament. A majority of 
this body were highly influential members of the Socie- 
ty of Friends — among whom it will suffice to name 
Josiah Forster, William Allen, Robert Forster, James 
Cropper, Joseph John Gurney, William Forster, Rich- 
ard Barrett, Richard Ball, Emanuel Cooper, Joseph 
Cooper, Joseph Sturge, Joseph Eaton, and Arthur 
West, as specimens of the elevated character of the 
whole body of delegates. Associated with these dis- 



IT MR. THOMPSON 

tinguished philanthropists and pure minded christians, 
was George Thompson, esteemed and beloved by 
them all, and taking a conspicuous part in their deliber- 
ations and discussions — the champion of liberty, who, 
in this country, has been branded as ' a miserable crea- 
ture,' ' a scoundrel,' ' an incendiary,' e a cut-throat,' c a 
foreign emissary,' and t a fugitive from justice ' ! The 
acme of calumny was attained when it was said of 
the immaculate Redeemer, that he was ( a wine bib- 
ber and a glutton,' and that ' he had a devil : ' all sur- 
prise may cease, therefore, at the defamation of others, 
however virtuous and upright. It was in London that 
Mr. Thompson was thus honorably associated, thus 
highly esteemed, and thus signally popular — the very 
city from which, it is said, by the unutterably base 
journalists of this country, he fled in disgrace to these 
shores ! Although the pro-slavery party were as hos- 
tile as selfishness, prejudice and. hatred could make 
them Xo % the cause and the friends of emancipation, 
and although they particularly dreaded the unrivalled 
abilities, irresistible eloquence, and unexampled success 
of Mr,. Thompson as a public lecturer, yet not a whis- 
per was heard against his reputation, not the least stain 
was thrown upon the resplendent brightness of his 
career. No : calumny was dumb, effrontery stood 
abashed, and malice was powerless. It was left for the 
human hyenas and jackalls of America, who delight to 
listen to negro groans, to revel in negro blood, and to 
batten upon negro flesh, to rend a character as fair as 
uprightness, and as lovely as benevolence itself. They 
vainly supposed, that the billows of the Atlantic would 
hide their malice from detection, and that distance 



IN ENGLAND. 



would allow them to be ferocious with impunity. The 
folly of their conduct was as great as its enormity. It 
was perpetrated, too, for a diabolical purpose — to 
perpetuate the worse than Egyptian thraldom of more 
than two millions of their own countrymen, who are by 
law and usuage transformed, with their offspring, from 
rational, accountable, immortal beings, into goods and 
chattels, and implements of husbandry ! 

Mr. Thompson had just returned from a tour through 
the kingdom, which was followed by the most brilliant 
results in favor of the immediate abolition of colonial 
slavery. His lectures had been every where thronged 
to overflowing, and the enthusiam of his audiences was 
boundless. The West India party had sent into the 
field against Mr. Thompson, a person by the name of 
Peter Borthwick, well skilled in artificial oratory, 
fluent in debate, stoically self-possessed, of considerable 
tact and ingenuity, with a face of bronze, and a heart of 
stone, and a faithful copyist of him ' who was a liar from 
the beginning.' The combatants met repeatedly, for 
public disputation, in Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow, 
Edinburgh, and other places. The interest that was 
excited in these discussions arose to a high degree of 
intensity, but the victory was never for a single moment 
dubious. Borthwick was met and foiled at every 
point, with amazing celerity and overwhelming effect ; 
and in a short time he as studiously shunned, as he had 
sought, a contest with his superior opponent. Yet the 
former was no mean antagonist, either in adroitness 
or ability. 

Mr. Borthwick had confidently declared, that he 
would follow Mr. Thompson from city, to city, from 
1* 



VI MR. THOMPSON 

village to village, and from one end of the kingdom to 
the other; but he relied too much upon simple lying 
and gross fiction,* and was comparatively ignorant of 



* The following anecdote, related to me by a friend in London, who 
was an eye-witness of the scene, is given as a specimen of Borth wick's- 
effrontery. One evening, he was holding forth upon colonial slavery to 
a large audience in Edinburgh or Glasgow, wholly unaware of the pres- 
ence of Mr. Thompson, who sat taking notes in a remote corner of the 
hall. In the course of his lecture, he boldly asserted, that, by a law of 
Jamaica, if a slave should testify that his master had maltreated him, his 
naked declaration would suffice to cause the master to be heavily fined, 
although the accusation should be groundless ! To confirm his statement, 
he said he held the law in his hand, which he would read to the 
assembly, if any one present should call for it. He then paused, as if to 
afford an opportunity for the request 10 be made, and was about to pro- 
ceed, when Mr. Thompson audibly said, ' Read the law ! ' Though 
taken by surprise, Borthwick immediately recognized his opponent, and 
coolly replied : ' The honorable gentleman cries — Read the law ! Does he 
doubt my readiness to read it! I toil! read it, if he should again urge hia 
request: if not, I will proceed with my lecture.' Again Mr. Thompson 
responded more emphatically, 'Read the law! ' The audience now be- 
came considerably agitated. Borthwick himself was dashed, (for he 
had no law to read,) and turning to Mr. Thompson imploringly said, 'I 
appeal to the honorable gentleman, whether it is fair to interrupt the lec- 
ture, and to agitate this meeting, by pertinaciously insisting upon the read- 
ing of the law. Have I not declared that I hold the law in my hand! 
Have I not referred distinctly to its provisions'? I pledge my word that it 
shall he given to the public. Ought not this to satisfy the gentleman! I 
throw myself upon his courtesy and kindness: will he allow me to proceed 
without further interruption ! ' Once more, in a clear tone, Mr. Thomp- 
son responded, ' READ THE LAW! ' The pro-slavery portion of the 
audience, seeing the terrible dilemma into which their champion was 
brought, and true to their character all over the world, now raved and 
stormed at Mr. T., and vehemently cried out, * Down, sir! down, sir! Out 
with him! out with him! ' The chairman, too, was rampant with vexa- 
tion, and ordered Mr. T. to be silent, or he would call for the police offi- 
cers to take him out of the house — Borthwick, all the while, looking un- 
utterable things. During this extraordinary hubbub, Mr. Thompson 
stood with much calmness and dignity, and turning to those around him, 
said determinately, ' Turn him out ! Who will turn me out? Will you, 



IN ENGLAND. VII 

the intellectual and moral strength of his formidable 
opponent. On his part, the aspect of the conflict was soon 
changed from offensive to defensive. The last attempt on 
the part of Mr. Thompson, to confront Mr. Borth- 
wtck before a public audience, was made while I was 
in England. The cities of Bath and Bristol were the 
strong holds of the pro-slavery party, and they contribu- 
ted liberally to the support of Mr. Borthwick. A 
splendid service of plate had just been presented to him 



sirl or you, sirl or you, sir - ?' Then as they recoiled, addressing himself 
to the chairman, he continued — < It looks well in you, sir, to talk of forc- 
ing me from this hall! Have you so soon forgotten that to me you are in- 
debted for having been saved from a violent expulsion, a few evenings since, 
in this city, for your turbulent conduct, at one of my lectures'? When some 
of my auditors exclaimed, 5 Turn him out!' I said, « No — let him remain ; 
nay, let him be heard. If he is thrust out, /shall also leave.' And now, sir, 
regardless of this timely interference in your behalf, you threaten to expel 
me from this assembly ! And why'? Have I behaved disorderly'? No. 
Have I taken a liberty that was not proffered! No. Mr. Borthwick 
aaid that his statement concerning certain features of West India slavery 
was derived from a law that he held in his hand, which, if any were skep- 
tical, he would read. Confident there was no such law in existence, I re- 
peatedly requested him to read the law. This is the head and front of my 
offending. If lie had fulfilled his promise, there would have been no dis- 
turbance. If he has the law, why does he not read it! The audience must 
now be satisfied that Mr. Borthwick has promised more than he is able 
to perform; and, consequently, that his glowing description of the happy 
condition of the enslaved negro is drawn from his imagination, rather than 
from the statute-book. If he shall finish his lecture without reading the law, 
he will have succeeded by his labors this evening in bringing condemnation 
upon himself and his cause. To give him a chance, therefore, to rescue 
both, if possible, for the last time I call upon him to READ THE LAW.' 
The whole of this scene cannot be adequately described. Order was 
at length restored — poor Borthwick was confounded, and wound up his 
lecture as speedily as possible, still persisting that there ivas such a law, but 
lie had unfortunately mislaid it. It should certainly be forthcoming at 
another time.' That time never came! 



VIII MR. THOMPSON 

in the former city, for his advocacy of colonial slavery, 
and Bath was now his chosen place of residence, in 
which he was ignobly figuring as the c lion of the day. 5 
Mr. Thompson had long been anxious to deliver a lec- 
ture in that city, although he was aware of the disadvan- 
tages under which he must labor as the advocate of 
emancipation. Having made his arrangements accord- 
ingly, we left London together, in the stage-coach early 
in the evening, and rode all night, and just as morning 
dawned entered Bath, experiencing the bodily depres- 
sion usually arising from a sleepless night and a long 
journey. As we rode through various streets, large 
placards upon the walls met our eyes, informing the 
public that Mr. George Thompson would reply to 
Mr. Borthwick's lecture at 12 o'clock of that day. 
Mr. Thompson had not seen the lecture alluded to, and 
it was with difficulty he obtained a copy of it in season 
for perusal, before he went to the place of meeting to 
reply to it! Thus fatigued, and thus unprepared, he 
was called to stand up, for the first time, before a severe- 
ly critical and highly intellectual assembly in the 
Athens of England ! He had scarcely finished his brief 
exordium, before his physical depression was changed 
to vigorous action ; and for more than three hours, an 
affluent stream of eloquence, widening and deepening in 
its course, was poured from the exhaustless fountain of 
his mind. His auditors were evidently taken by sur- 
prise. They went (very many of them at least) to cavil, 
not to applaud — to depress the orator by their coolness, 
not to animate him by their enthusiasm. But their half 
equivocal ejaculations of e hear ! hear ! ' at the com- 
mencement, were soon succeeded by loud cheers. As 



IN ENGLAND. IX 

he rose to the climax of his powers, the house rang with 
thunders of applause. In the course of his lecture, he 
paused repeatedly, and thanking them for their very flat- 
tering reception, which he ascribed to their interest in 
the great cause of human rights, intimated that he would 
bring his remarks to a close, lest he should trespass 
upon their time and patience. But the cries of 'No! 
no ! Go on ! go on ! ' were unanimous, and encouraged 
him to proceed. At length, nature demanded relief : 
the powerful and long-continued action of his mind shat- 
tered its fleshly tabernacle, and he could speak no 
longer. It was, in truth, a masterly effort. I cannot 
conceive how he could have improved it by long 
deliberation, either in the delicacy of its satire, the 
force of its reasoning, or the splendor of its declamation. 
Mr. Borthwick was challenged to discuss the subject 
of slavery in Bath, but wisely declined. 

The qualifications of Mr. Thompson, as a lecturer, 
filled my mind with admiration. His person was tall 
and graceful ; his social manners captivating; his voice 
of great compass^ and very pleasant in its lower tones ; 
his action natural — at times vehement — yet generally 
governed by oratorical rules ; his elocution beautiful, 
spontaneous, irresistible. Especially did he excel in 
debate : he could do more for himself and his cause 
with Mr. Borthwick, than without him : and he 
always preferred to have an antagonist, if one could be 
found. He had the faculty of ' thinking on his legs ' 
faster than any other speaker I had ever heard. But 
it was not his quickness of perception, nor his fluency 
of speech, nor his brilliancy of retort, upon which he* 
placed reliance. He felt that the cause which he es* 



X MR. THOMPSON 

poused was invincible, inasmuch as it was based upon 
the rock of Truth, supported by the pillars of Justice 
and Mercy, and patronized by God. He was strong 
in faith — that faith which is as an anchor to the soul, 
both sure and steadfast — that faith which has so often 
overcome the world. His appeals were made to the 
Christianity of Great Britain. He depicted slavery 
as a comprehensive system of soul-murder. If he 
alluded to the physical sufferings of the slaves, he did so 
rather in confirmation of his charges of animal cru- 
elty against the planters, than to excite the highest 
indignation of his audience. He knew that he was ad- 
dressing a professedly moral and religious people ; and 
he rightly judged, that they would regard an outrage 
done to the intellect and soul of a human being, as 
transcending every other in enormity. It was his great 
aim, therefore, to establish the equality, exalt the value, 
and vindicate the immortality of the slave. For that 
despised and fettered victim, the heavens and the earth 
were created, as much as for patriarchs, prophets and 
apostles. For him, equally with the rest of mankind, 
God said, 'Let there be light.' For him, the sun 
and the moon and stars were ordained to shine in the 
firmament. For him, God commanded the earth to 
bring forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, 
and the tree yielding fruit after his kind ; — the living 
creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and 
beast of the earth, after his kind. For him, God said, 
'Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving crea- 
ture that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the 
earth.' To his dominion were subjected the fish of the 
sea, the fowl of the air, and every living thing that moveth 



IN ENGLAND. XI 

upon the earth. And, finally, for him the Lord of 
glory descended from heaven, was scorned and buffet- 
ed, and crucified upon the cross, to redeem him from 
the thraldom of sin, and make him an heir of God, and 
a joint heir with himself. It was thus that this distin- 
guished advocate lifted up the down-trodden slave to an 
equality with the highest of the human race : and when 
he vividly portrayed the awful guilt of those who were 
plunging him into an abyss of degradation, depriving him 
of knowledge, and ruining his soul by a systematic pro- 
cess, a Christian audience could not be otherwise than 
moved to tears, roused to indignant remonstrance, and 
inspired to labor for his deliverance. I trust it will be 
remembered, throughout the mighty struggle that is now 
going on in this country, that it was upon the shoulders 
of Christianity, the anti-slavery cause was carried tri- 
umphantly to the goal of emancipation. 

As the bill for the abolition of Colonial Slavery had 
passed both houses of Parliament, previous to my em- 
barkation for the United States, and as the long pro- 
tracted contest in England was about drawing to a close, 
it occurred to me, that if I could succeed in inducing 
Mr. Thompson to visit America, and co-operate with 
the little band of abolitionists who were there struggling 
against wind and tide, my mission would be crowned 
with the highest success. 

One day as I was dining at the house of Thomas 
Fowell Buxton, # in London, our conversation natur- 
ally turned upon the state of the abolition question in 
the United States. In the course of many inquiries, he 

* The successor of Wilbkrforce in Parliament, 



XII MR. THOMPSON 

kindly remarked, that, as the friends of negro emancipa- 
tion in England had nearly accomplished their work in 
the Colonies, they would soon be enabled to give their 
sympathies and aid to their brethren in America, in a 
more direct and efficient manner than they had hither- 
to done ; and he was sure they would readily do what 
they could, consistently with duty, the relations that 
subsisted between the two countries, &c. ' In what 
way, then, Mr. Garrison,' he inquired, ' can we best 
assist your cause ?' c J5y giving us George Thompson,' 
I replied. ' But,' he asked, ' would not there be strong 
prejudices excited against him, on account of his being 
an Englishman ? Do you think he could obtain a fair 
hearing before the American people? Would not the 
slaveholders, especially, and their violent adherents, 
endeavor to inflame the jealousy of the nation, and 
misrepresent the real object of his mission? ' To these 
questions I replied, that the coming of Mr. Thompson 
among us would undoubtedly stir up the bile of all 
those who were opposed to the abolition of slavery ; that 
he might expect to encounter severe ridicule and bitter 
denunciation ; that it would not be safe for him (as it 
was not safe for any New-Englander who was an abo- 
litionist) to travel and lecture in the slave States ; and 
that he would have to take his chance — probably an 
unequal chance — with the rest of us who were proscrib- 
ed for our abhorrence of the slave system. Still, I be- 
lieved he would find opportunities to speak in public, 
especially in New-England, as often as he could desire ; 
and 1 felt confident, that whenever and wherever he 
should succeed in making himself heard, he would dis- 
arm prejudice, extort admiration, and multiply converts 



IN ENGLAND. Xril 

to our cause ; and that he would finally remove every 
obstacle in his path, arising from his transatlantic origin. 
As to his personal safety in New-England, I did not 
think there would be any hazard. How little did I then 
imagine, that, such was the ferocious spirit which 
slavery had generated among the sons of the pilgrims, 
Mr. Thompson would soon be compelled to secrete 
himself from the daggers of a people, boasting contin- 
ually of liberty and equality, and proudly living with- 
in sight of Bunker Hill, for simply inculcating 'the self- 
evident truths ' contained in their own Declaration of 
Independence ! How little did I then anticipate, that, 
even in Boston, ' the wealthy and respectable ' portion of 
the community would riotously assemble together, at mid- 
day, in the broad sunlight of heaven, to tar and feather, 
and perhaps barbarously put to death, a foreign philan- 
thropist, whose only aim was to assist them in driving 
the monster oppression from their shores ! How im- 
possible was it for me then to suppose, that the time 
was rapidly approaching when Bostonians would be so 
recreant to the character of their patriotic forefathers, so 
lost to all sense of shame, so greedy of the gain of un- 
righteousness, and so destitute not only of the princi- 
ples of justice, but even of the common instincts of hu- 
manity, as to rush en masse into Faneuil Hall, their old 
Cradle of Liberty, and there, in the delirium of 
passion, brand the advocates of universal emancipation 
as traitors to their country, eulogize the robbers of the 
poor and needy as patriotic citizens, and cheer . the 
memory of Washington, because he was a slaveholder ! 
Little did I imagine, that the time was speedily coming 
when the freedom of speech and of the press would be 
2 



XIV MR. THOMPSON 

deemed a treasonable offence ; when the U. S. mail 
would be plundered by a committee of respectable and 
affluent citizens in the open daylight of heaven, not 
only with impunity, but with the approbation of the 
people; when large rewards for the abducticn of north- 
ern citizens would be offered in all parts of the south; 
when applications would be made by Governors of 
southern States to those of northern States, to deliver 
up individuals who were neither fugitives from justice, 
or guilty of any misdemeanor, that they might be put 
to an ignominious death ; when northern citizens at the 
south would be arrested and condemned illegally, on 
suspicion of being opposed in principle to slavery, and 
cruelly scourged or ' lynched/ (i. e. gibbeted by a mob,') 
and the murderers suffered to go unmolested by the 
courts ; when the President of the United States would 
urge upon Congress the duty of passing another alien 
and sedition law, for the perpetuity of the slave 
system ; and when a Bill would be reported in the 
Senate, making it an offence worthy of fine or impris- 
onment in any postmaster in a slave State, who should 
knowingly deliver or circulate any letter, newspaper, 
tract or pamphlet, containing sentiments hostile to sla- 
very ! No : corrupt and despotic as I knew my coun- 
try to be, and thoroughly infected with the poison of 
negro oppression as was her entire system, yet I had no 
anticipation of the occurrence of events so dreadful and 
scuicidal as these. 

Mr. Buxton pleasantly remarked, that, if I thought 
they could obtain a hearing at the north, we might have 
not only Mr. Thompson, but all their abolition lec- 
turers, if desirable. He also said, that it was bis inten- 



IN ENGLAND. XV 

tion to address a letter to the people of the United 
States upon the subject of slavery, which I urged him 
to write without delay. 

At my next interview with Mr. Thompson, I frankly 
stated to him my views and feelings. Novel and start- 
ling as was my proposition, it made at once a deep im- 
pression upon his benevolent mind, and he promised to 
give it all that consideration which its importance merit- 
ed. It was an extraordinary sacrifice which he was in- 
vited to make — a sacrifice of personal comfort, safety, 
emolument, reputation, home, relations, friends, and 
country. What trust in God, what love for the human 
race, what sympathy for the outcasts and the dumb, did 
it require ! How few, how very few, even among the 
professed followers of Christ, are prepared to make a 
much smaller sacrifice ! Ye who love your native 
country, say, is it a small matter to be exiled from her 
shores ? Ye who feel and sing, that ? there is no place 
like home, be it ever so humble,' tell me, is it nothing to 
be severed from it by a boundless ocean, and. to have all 
the fibres of your affections torn asunder ? Ye who are 
holding continual intercourse with kindred and friends, 
and enjoying the delightful satisfaction of meeting in 
your daily walks familiar countenances and native forms 
- — declare, how many pangs would it cost you to absent 
yourselves from their society, and sojourn in a strange 
land where you would be i alike unknowing and un- 
known? ' Ye who, as the darkness of night deepens and 
spreads over your abodes, lie down at ease and in safety, 
with none to molest or make you afraid — answer, would 
it be pastime voluntarily to surround yourselves, your wives 
and your little ones, with afflictions, necessities, distresses, 



XVI MR. THOMPSON 

tumults, and to be in perils of waters, in perils of robbers? 
in perils of tyrants, in perils of a foreign land, in perilsin the 
city, and in perils among false brethren ? Ye who pos- 
sess an honorable reputation, and swim upon the full 
tide of a well-earned popularity, and hear the voice of 
panegyric every where vocal in your behdf — is it easy, 
even in obedience to the promptings of duty, to turn your 
backs upon the scenes of your triumphs, and the ap- 
plauses of a grateful people — to seek a land in which 
you shall instantly become of no reputation, and be 
ranked among the offscouring of the earth, and be brand- 
ed with every hateful epithet, and hunted as a wild beast 
by a blood-thirsty populace ? Yet such were the sacri- 
fices and perils which Mr. Thompson was invited to 
encounter : and what but the love of Christ con- 
straining him could have induced him finally to take 
up so heavy a cross as this? How many plausible ob- 
jections might have been started to the mission, if he 
had been disposed to shrink from its perils, or evade its 
mortifications I He was a foreigner ; the experiment 
was a novel one; it might needlessly jeopard the hap- 
piness and safety of his family; his advocacy might do 
more harm than good ; there were many important 
moral enterprises in England which needed his efforts ; 
there was no lack of talent or zeal enlisted in the anti- 
slavery cause in the United States, &c. &c. Minds of 
little faith, and of great timorousness, might start such 
difficulties in favor of themselves or of others ; but 
George Thompson never once thought of sheltering 
himself behind such coverts. It was not the hardship 
of exile, passionately attached as he was to his native 
country ; nor the pain of separation from his kindred ; 



IN ENGLAND. XVII 

nor the loss of reputation and comfort ; nor the perils of 
the great deep; nor the certainty of encountering the 
scorn and persecution of a proud and oppressive peo- 
ple ; that made him pause, and deliberately consider the 
proposition which was made to him, in behalf of the friends 
of the slaves across the Atlantic. Was the cause, which 
he was invited to espouse, of greater moment than 
any other which presented itself? Could he hope to be 
more useful in it than in a subordinate enterprise ? 
Would such a mission be in accordance with the spirit 
of the gospel of Christ ? Was he qualified to sustain 
it ? These were the great questions which occupied 
the thoughts of Mr, Thompson, and which, in his view, 
included all other considerations. 

The first question he could readily answer in the 
affirmative. There was no conceivable interest, apper- 
taining to a human being, either for time or eternity, 
either affecting his body or soul, which was not bound 
up in the cause of the slave. Slavery was the transfor- 
mation of man, with all his faculties and powers, into a 
beast, a machine, an article of merchandize. It was 
full of mortal woe, and the wreck of immortality. It 
was the entire subversion of the moral government of 
the universe, the frustration of God's design in the cre- 
ation of man, the daily crucifixion of Jesus Christ. 
Slavery was practically a state of atheism on the part of 
the masters, and of heathenism as it regarded the slaves. 
If the whole man was ruined by it, what other cause 
contemplated the rescue of more than the whole man ? 
Invention — science — the arts — letters — self-government 
— progressive improvement — domestic happiness— pri- 
vate and public safety — national union — honor and re- 
2* 



XVIII MR. THOMPSON 

nown — freedom of conscience, of speech, of the press, 
of choice, of locomotion — individual liberty — the sa- 
cred relations of life — the circulation of the scriptures 
— the triumph of the gospel — all these depended upon 
the extinction of slavery. No other cause embraced so 
many particulars. 

The astonishing success which had already crowned 
his labors in Great Britain, and his familiarity with the 
subject of slavery, in all its legal, physical and moral rela- 
tions, authorised him to believe, that his usefulness could 
not be enlarged by the prosecution of an inferior enter- 
prise, however excellent in itself. He was now better 
qualified than ever to renew the warfare against slavery, 
inasmuch as his experience and knowledge were greater 
than when he first enlisted in the service. 

The third question was affirmatively answered by his 
heart and his understanding, as soon as it was propound- 
ed. His mission would be, physically and spiritually, 
intellectually and morally, the identical mission of the 
Son of God — to bind up the broken-hearted, to preach 
deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the pris- 
on doors to those who were bound. It was authorised 
by the command of the risen Saviour — c Go ye into all 
the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. 
Lo, I am with you alway, even to the end of the world/ 
An English Christian may as properly visit America, 
and labor for the subversion of slavery, as an American 
christian may go to India, and toil for the downfal of 
idolatry : so Jesus Christ determines. His gospel is 
aggressive, and it disregards all territorial distinctions, 
all national peculiarities, and all human prohibitions. A 
christian is authorised to conflict with sin wherever he 



IN ENGLAND. XIX 

finds it. There is no place so remote, no station so lofty, 
no power so great, no government so peculiar, as to 
shield sin from rebuke and exposure. Yet proud and phar- 
isaical America is enraged to madness, because she is 
admonished for her bloody crimes by a christian stran- 
ger; and her priests and her churches (with some signal 
exceptions) artfully strive to inflame her hatred, and join 
in the -sanguinary cry, e Away with him ! crucify him ! 
crucify him I his blood be upon us, and on our children 1 ? 

The last question, whether he was qualified to sustain 
so important an agency, was one which, sincerely dis- 
trusting his own abilities, he- referred to the considera- 
tion and decision of the most discreet friends of the 
colored race in Great Britain. As soon as the mission 
was suggested to them, whatever may have been their 
opinion of its suitableness or feasibility, they unanimous- 
ly agreed, that George Thompson was pre-eminently 
qualified to prosecute it. Nor did they throw up any 
obstacles in his path : on the contrary, they generously 
proffered all needful assistance. 

Having ascertained the views of his numerous friends, 
Mr. Thompson gave me the joyful assurance, a few 
days before my departure, that Deo volente, he would 
visit America, and cast his lot among the proscribed ad- 
vocates of injured humanity. But he must first per- 
form an important work in England. It was proposed 
to organize a Society in London, for the abolition of sla- 
very and the slave trade throughout the world ; 
under whose auspices, Mr. T. would embark for the 
United States. To accomplish this noble object, Mr. 
Thompson travelled through the kingdom, lecturing in 
the principal towns and cities, and stimulating afresh the 



XX MR. THOMPSON 

compassion and benevolence of the colored race uni- 
versally. The parent society was soon organized in the 
metropolis, and several auxiliary associations were also 
formed in various parts of the country. In Scotland, 
particularly in Edinburgh, Mr. Thompson was received 
with every demonstration of respect, affection and de- 
light. The enthusiasm of his crowded audiences was 
boundless. 

Here I may pause, to notice some of the many 
ridiculous charges which were^ brought against Mr. 
Thompson, after his arrival in this country. 

First. He was taunted with being a { Scotchman/ * the 
Scotch emissary,' ^-c. This sneer is as false in fact, as 
it is puerile in reason, and worthy of those whose na- 
tivity the most degraded tribe on earth should be loath 
to claim. Surely, to be born in Scotland is no more 
justly reproachful, than to be born in the United States, 
and, indisputably, is quite as honorable and praisewor- 
thy. Contempt of other nations belongs to barbarism, 
and is generally a proof of personal or domestic inferi- 
ority. Still, if we may lawfully enslave men because 
they or their ancestors were born in Africa, we have an 
unquestionable right to contemn those who originated in 
Scotland. To this grave charge, that he was a foreign- 
er, Mr. Thompson used playfully to reply, that he had 
no choice, or control, in selecting the spot upon which 
he first drew the breath of life ; that if he could have 
made an election, at the time of his birth, perhaps he 
might have chosen Boston, or New York, or Philadel- 
phia, in America, as the place of his nativity ; and that, 
if any mistake had been committed, he had done what 
he could to rectify it, by leaving England for America ! 



IN ENGLAND. XXI 

It is proper to state, — not to relieve Mr. T. of any odi- 
um, but for the sake of accuracy, — that he was born in 
Liverpool, and must therefore relinquish the satisfac- 
tion of belonging to renowned and enlightened Scot- 
land. 

Again. It was partly alleged, that Mr. Thompson 
was sent out to this country, by a small number of an- 
tiquated spinsters, in Glasgow or Edinburgh : 

'As to Thompson, the foreign vagrant, who has attempted with impu- 
dent zeal to create excitement, he has been hooted from every place where 
he has recently attempted to hold forth. He will soon find it most expedi- 
ent to return to his own country, and give an account of his mission to the 
silly women who squandered their money for his support.' — [Boston Cen- 
tinel.] 

'The ethics ofthe abolitionists, as expounded by their imported mouth- 
piece, Thompson, in the employment, of the Glasg yw philanthropistisses } 
appears to be gaining some ground in the Slave States. Several murders 
have recently been perpetrated, and ' God willing,' as these murderous hypo- 
crites have it, we suppose several more will be committed,' &c — [iVeto 
York Courier and Enquirer.] 

1 What ! the Cradle of Liberty [Faneuil Hall] in little more than half a 
century to become its coffin ! The place where the Adams's and the Otis's 
have so often uttered, in burning eloquence, the matchless value of our in- 
stitutions, to echo with the raven croa kings of such creatures as Garrison ! 
— the mad imbecilities of St"w, the flatulent dogmatisms of the fmatic 
Birney,from Kentucky, and the theatritcal contortions of the mouthing and 
noisy driveller, acting as the stipendiary of the Glasgow seamstresses' 1 . 
— the poor creature, who, having been found too dishonest for employment 
by men, has tied himself to the apron-strings of some canting old women, 
and derives his only power of purchasing his daily bread and butter from 
the scanty savings ofa few Scotch fimales. This is one ofthe scoundrels, 
— we have no mealiness of phraseology for incendiaries, sent here with 
lighted torches in their hands to set fire to our social fabric, &c. [Idem.] 

4 England entailed this curse [slavery] upon our land; and now some 
maiden ladies in England send forth two mad missionaries to preach trea- 
son to our Constitution, and inculcate upon us ' a labor of mercy ' to- 
wards our black population ! We shall not attend the meeting in question 



XXII MR. THOMPSON 

— but if we did, it would be to aid in tarring and feathering the impudent 
foreign pretenders, who have thus dared to present themselves among us, to 
sow the seeds of discord and disunion. Let them beware of the experi- 
ment they have attempted.'- — [Idem.] 

1 Thompson the Scotchman. — This most impudent of itinerant mounte- 
banks, represents Miss JLucretia M'Tabb and a bevy of old maids at 
Glasgow, who pay him board, wages and travelling expenses, to lecture 
the citizens of the United States on their domestic duties; one of the most 
urgent of which is, to lodge him in Bridewell, until he give security to keep 
the peace — after which, he ought to be packed up like a quintal of cod-fish 
and sent back to the Caledonian damstls who exported this vagabondizing 
interloper.' — [Idtm.] 

' What renders the conduct of these instigators of treason, robbery and 
massacre, still more outrageous and indefensible, is the fact of their having 
imported more than one organ of mischief from England, to assist in sowing 
the live coals of ruin and desolation over a large portion of this prosperous 
land. Not content with the agency of the wretched libeller of his country, 
the exclusive ' friend of all the human race,' they have associated in their 
righteous race, an imported incendiary, * who left his country for his coun- 
try's good.' That this apostle of the old pussy cats of Glasgow, this tool 
of Tappanism, has hitherto escaped the Bridewell, transportation, or some 
other species of modern martyrdom, is a proof either that our laws are de- 
fective, our magistrates neglectful, or our people the best natured in the 
world. We hope and trust that his next attempt in this city will end in a 
transfer to the Penitentiary, as a common disturber and enemy to society, 
and would earnestly recommend to the superintendent of that society, a sol- 
itary probation, le.-the might corrupt the morals of his pupils.' — [idem.] 

Occasionally, 'the bevy of old maids at Glasgow' 
would be made to give place to the British Government, 
which was charged with having sent Mr. Thompson to 
this country for the express purpose of destroying the 
American Union ! The same individuals, almost in the 
same breath, would bring these ridiculous and contra- 
dictory allegations. Occasionally, the ridicule of con- 
tempt would be followed bylhe toscin of alarm, thus : 

* Sir, these doctrines and that language, to which I have felt it my duty to 
advert, tending as they do to the disruption of theUnion, the prostration of Goy» 



IN ENGLAND. XXIII 

ernment, and to all the horrors of a civil and servile war, have attained their 
greatest prevalence and intensity within the past year. Since a certain noto- 
rious foreign agent first landed upon our shores, who comes here not to unite 
his fate with ours, not as other foreigners who would make this their home, 
and whom we cordially receive to the participation of all the immeasurable 
blessings of free institutions; but he comes here as an avowed emissary, 
sustained by foreign funds, a professed agitator upon questions deeply, pro- 
foundly political, which lay at the very foundation of our Union, and in 
which the very existence of this nation is involved. He comes here from 
the dark and corrupt institutions of Europe, to enlighten us upon the rights 
of man and the moral duties of our own condition. Received by our hos- 
pitality, (/ /) he stands here upon our soil, protected by our laios, ('//) and 
hurls ' fire-brands, arrows and death' into the habitations of our neighbors, 
and friends, and brothers ; — and when he shall have kindled a conflagration 
which is sweeping desolation over our land, he has only to embark for his 
own country, and there look securely back, with indifference or exultation, 
upon the wide spread ruin by which our cities are wrapt in flames, and our 
garments rolled in blood' ! ! * — Speech of Hon. Feleg Sprague, at the 
pro-slavery meeting in Faneuil Hall, Boston, August 21, 1835. 



* Circumstances combine to give to this extraordinary phillippic, the ma- 
ignancy of the spirit of murder. Its author has a large reputation as a 
statesman; his assault upon Mr. Thompson was made at a time when 
the public mind was absolutely in a state of phrenzy, and an infatuated pop- 
ulace stood ready to abduct, or tar and feather, or assassinate, as opportu- 
nity might offer, this noble philanthropist; it was a powerful stimulus to 
lawless violence, — administered, too, in the Old Cradle of Liberty, — which 
operated on the 21st of October, by exciting a lawless mob of five thousand 
' gentlemen of property and standing ' in Boston, who endeavored ' to snake 
out and lynch 'Mr. Thompson, according to the £ most approved mode of tor- 
ture and murder at the South. This philippic was not less cowardly than 
sanguinary, inasmuch as it was uttered at a time, and under circumstances, 
and in a place, which rendered it impossible either for Mr. Thompson or 
any of his friends to be heard in reply. 

Our English brethren may feel curious to see 'those doctrines and that 
language' of the abolitionists, which R1r. Sprague declares ' tend to the 
disruption of the Union, the prostration of Government, and to all the hor-' 
rors of a civil and servile war.' Mr. Sprague represents them to be these: 
— ' Tell the abolitionists this; present to them in full array the terrific con- 
sequences of their attempts at immediate emancipation, and they meet all 
by a cold abstraction (!) They answer, — We must do right regardless 
of consequences.* * They insist that it is right that the} should urge their 



XXIV MR, THOMPSON 

If it were true, that the ladies of Glasgow or Edin- 
burgh deputed Mr. Thompson to this country, and 
wholly defrayed the expenses of his mission among us, 
the fact would be disgraceful, neither to them nor to 



doctrines for the conviction of the South.' [What a dangerous heresy!] 
' They insist upon immediate, instantaneous emancipation.' ' By thus in- 
sisting that the continuance of slavery, under any circumstances, is necessa- 
rily of the same moral character as its original, voluntary introduction, that 
it is equally criminal, they come to the conclusion, that no laws that sanc- 
tion or uphold it can have any moral obligation.' Friends of humanity in 
England, behold the head and front of the offending of American abolition- 
ists ! Are not their doctrines your doctrines 1 Yet it is alleged that they 
* tend to all the horrors of a civil and servile war ' ! ! 

Mr. Sp kague is guilty of misrepresentation, in several instances. It is 
not true, that Mr. Thompson 'came here as an avowed emissary,' or 
as ' a professed agitator,' in a pernicious sense. It is not. true, that 
the question of slavery is exclusively or pre-eminently a political one: 
it is a moral and religious question, which every moral and relig- 
ious being on earth has a right to examine and discuss, on these shores, 
and throughout the world. The sneer at £ the dark and corrupt institutions 
of Europe' manifests a large share of effrontery, in this connexion ; for the 
institution of American Slavery is incomparably more 'dark and cor- 
rupt' than any that exists in Europe. Mr. Sprague exhibits, moreover, 
a superfluity of indignation, because an Englishman ' comes here to enlight- 
en us, upon the rights of man, ai*d the moral duties of our condition. 
Surely, the people who make merchandise of more than one-sixth of their 
whole number, and declare that such brutal conduct is divinely sanctioned, 
or, at least, is not prohibited by Christianity, need to be enlightened up- 
on the subject of inalienable human rights, and upon moral duties, more 
than any other people on the face of the globe. Surely, the man who 
could desecrate Fan euil Hall by a speech in favor of American tyrants, 
and by lauding Washington becausehe was a slaveholder, (thus convert- 
ing a damning stain into a badge ofhonor,) may be taught something on the 
score of liuerty even by a Nicholas, much more by a free-born Eng- 
lishman. 

By the British Constitution, no slave can breathe the air of England. — 
What does Mr. Sprague assert of the American Constitution, in approv- 
ing terms 1 * It recognizes and provides for the continuance of the relation 
of mast er and slave. It does sanction, it does uphold, slavery. There 



IN ENGLAND. XXV 

him, but honorable to all parties. It is, unquestionably, 
the duty of women to seek the universal elevation of 
their sex from moral and physical degradation, by at- 
tempting, for instance, to extirpate the practice of self- 
immolation in Hindonstan, or Turkish polygamy, or 
American slavery. If a million females are held in 
beastly thraldom in this country, js it unbecoming any 
portion of the women of England, Scotland or Ireland, 
to send forth and sustain an eloquent and gifted agent 
to plead the cause of their down-trodden sex ? No. 



is no pretence that the provisions of the Constitution, in relation to slavery, 
were inserted by accident or inadvertence. Few parts of the Constitution 
were more carefully and deliberately weighed.' Has not every American 
cause to blush at the contrastl 

But Mr. Thompson was 'received by OUR hospitality ' !! says Mr. 
Sprague. This is sufficiently impudent and false. It was the hospitality 
of the wolf to the lamb, seeking to devour the victim. ' Our hospitality' 
caused Mr. Thompson, his wife, and little ones, to be thrust out of a 
hotel in New York city, soon after he landed in this country. ' Our hospi- 
tality provided for him rotten eggs, brickbats, tar and feathers, halters, dag- 
gers, &c. &c. * Our hospitality' at last compelled him to return hastily 
to England, in order to save his life. It was the 'hospitality' offered by 
Peleg Sprague in Faneuil Hall, which prepared the way for the great 
mobocratic entertainment that was made in October for Mr. Thompson ! 

'Protected by our laws'!! says Mr. Sprague. When, where, and 
how'? ' Our laws ' do not protect native abolitionists. ' Our laws,' too, 
must be singularly defective, if they give protection to a man who is guilty 
of hurling 'fire-brands, arrows and death' into 'the habitations of our 
neighbors, and friends, and brothers.' But this charge of Peleg Sprague 
against Mr. Thompson is worthy to go with the accusation against the 
apostles, that they were pestilent and seditious fellows, turning the world up- 
side down — and with the charge against the Saviour, that he had a devil. 
It was a charge well calculated, at the time of its utterance, to stimulate a 
host of assassins against Mr. T's life : it was certainly a blow aimed at his 
reputation, and not only so, but an impeachment of the humanity, patriot- 
ism and piety of the whole body of abolitionists who supported Mr. Thomp- 
son, both in this country and in England. 

3 



XXVI MR. THOMPSON 

Such an act would be more truly glorious than a thou- 
sand victories won upon the ' tented field.' But the 
reader has been already apprised, that Mr. Thomp- 
son was invited to come to this country by the New Eng- 
land Anti-Slavery Society, and to accept an agency 
in its behalf. He complied with the invitation, but 
came also under the sanction, and to some extent, un- 
der the direction as well as co-operation of the British 
and Foreign Society for the Abolition of Slavery and 
the Slave Trade throughout the world.'' He was also 
countenanced and supported by other anti-slavery asso- 
ciations in various parts of the United Kingdom. It is 
true, that in Glasgow and Edinburgh a special inter- 
est was taken in the mission of Mr. Thompson by 
some of the most estimable and philanthropic ladies in 
those cities, as well as by ladies in Liverpool, Birming- 
ham, and other places, and that they contributed to- 
wards its prosecution — -just as pious females in our 
country assist in sending missionaries to other lands — 
humbly, subordinate^, conjunctively. Yet this inci- 
dental co-operation (worthy as it is of the admiration of 
the wise and good in every country) has been made the 
occasion of much scurrility and falsehood, as preceding 
quotations abundantly prove. It has been made a 
subject of ridicule, in a house of worship, before a 
crowded audience in New York. At a colonization 
meeting in the Rev. Dr. Spring's church last May, the 
Rev. George W. Bethune made a frothy and theat- 
rical speech, of which the following is an extract, as 
reported in the New York Observer : 

' Mr. Bethune observed, that he was sorry not to see some of our 
English friends present, (i. e. Messrs. Cox and IIoby,) — and while speak* 



IN ENGLAND. XXVII 

ing of them, he could not help thinking what sort of a reception the agent of 
the Edinburgh ladies, (Mr. Thompson,) would meet on his return to his 
constituents,* and what sort of a report he would probably make on the sub- 
ject of his mission. He could not but picture to himself the fair lady Presi- 
dent inquiring — 

'And pray Mr. Thompson, what did you do in America 1 ' 

To this he thought he heaivJthe Agent responding, Why, ladies, I made 
speeches there : for which one part of my audience loudly applauded me, 
and another part as loudly hissed me.' 

'And pray, where did you make speeches, Mr. Thompson ? Did you 
go to that part of the country where slavery prevailed, and tell them how 
wrong it was 1 ' 

'Oh no! if I had, they would have hanged me! But I went to the 
Northern States, ladies, and I told them what wicked people they were 
at the South.' 

' But, Mr. Thompson, had the people of the North any power to eman- 
cipate the slaves of the southern holders 1 



* The London Christain Advocate of Feb. 1st, informs us ' what sort of 
a reception the constituents of Mr. Thompson gave him in Glasgow on 
his return : — on Monday lie met the Emancipation Committees, male and 
female, in the Friend's Meeting-house, when, after he had briefly recited 
his adventures, a unanimous vote of thanks, congratulation and confidence 
was passed and presented to him. The meeting likewise pledged itself 
anew to the cause of universal emancipation. On Tuesday evening, and 
again on Friday evening, Mr. Thompson addressed large assemblies of 
the members and friends of the Emancipation Society in Dr. Wardlaw's 
Chapel. Rev. Dr. Heugh took the chair, and opened the proceedings 
in a short speech, highly commendatory of Mr. Thompson. Mr. T. 
made a very lengthy address. On Monday night, (says the Glasgow Journal 
of Thursday,) die soiree in honor of Mr. George Thompson was given in 
the large and splendid hall of the Montieth Rooms, Buchanan street. The 
usual refreshments provided on such occasions — tea, coffee, fruits conserves, 
&c._ &c. were amply and tastefully distributed. A series of resolutions 
was moved and carried by acclamation, in the course of the evening, and 
the movers and seconders of these addressed the assembly in excellent 
speeches. Mr. Cunningham's band in the gallery filled up the intervals 
between the addresses, with alternately gay and solemn strains. It was 12 
o'clock ere the assembly broke up. Mr. Thompson, who was the last to 
address them, was warmly cheered and encouraged to go on in his last 
speech. Rev. Drs, Kidston and Heugh officiated as chaplains.' 



XXVIII MR. THOMPSON 

* Oh no ! No more, ladies, than you have yourselves.' 
' Indeed ! and then, Mr. Thompson, why did you not stay at home, and 
make your speeches to us !' 

[These queries and replies were constantly interrupted with bursts of en- 
thusiastic applause, mingled with long and uncontrolable laughter.] 

The foregoing miserable attempt at wit is a specimen 
of the colonization spirit in this country. The school- 
boy, sophistry of Mr. Bethune is based upon a glar- 
ing falsehood, which, when overthrown, buries its au- 
thor in the ruins of his own folly. Mr. Thompson did 
not, and could not, go to any part of our nation in 
which slavery does not virtually exist. A very large 
amount of capital, belonging to the northern States is 
vested in plantations and slaves at the South. There is 
not a State in the Union in which slaveholders do not 
reside. There is not an inch of territory in the United 
States which affords the least protection to a runaway 
slave — the people of every state regarding themselves 
as obligated by the Constitution to return him to his 
tyrannical master, and to suppress every insurrection for 
liberty among the slaves. Slaveholders are allowed 
a large slave representation in Congress. The inter- 
course between the North and the South is as intimate 
as between members of the same family, and their 
inhabitants are constantly marrying or giving in marriage 
with each other. The existence of southern slavery 
puts in jeopardy the liberty of every free colored citizen 
in the non-slaveholding States. It has destroyed the 
freedom of speech and of the press, and the right of 
peaceably assembling together to consult upon the pub- 
lic good, and the liberty of locomotion, i. e. to the citi- 
zens of the free states ; (all guarantied by the Constitu- 



IN ENGLAND. XXIX 

tion,) in that portion of the Union in which it princi- 
pally obtains, and threatens to subjugate to a servile 
condition the white citizens of the North. Its blight- 
ing influence spreads over the whole country. Besides, 
slavery is sustained in a national capacity at the Seat of 
Government, in the District of Columbia, and in the sev- 
eral Territories belonging to the Union, and under the ex- 
clusive jurisdiction of Congress. Again: When Mr. 
Thompson visited us, the moral power of the free states 
was almost wholly enlisted on the side of southern slav- 
ery, either by palliation or direct support. It was es- 
sentially necessary, therefore, that that lost moral pow T - 
er should be recovered, and turned against the slave- 
system — for, enlightened, consolidated, and skilfully 
directed, it is adequate to its overthrow. Let the pub- 
lic sentiment in the free states become thoroughly abo- 
litionised, and slavery will speedily be crushed by its 
mighty pressure. Hence it is that such desperate 
efforts are made, on the part of southern states, to 
suppress the freedom of speech at the North, by mobo- 
cratic violence ; hence the offer of large rewards for the 
abduction of anti-slavery editors and lecturers ; and 
hence the demand of the South, that the liberty of the 
press, on the subject of slavery, shall be put down at 
the North by penal enactments. These items of intel- 
ligence serve to show the wisdom of Mr. Thompson, 
and the folly of Mr. Bethune. The latter assumes, 
most falsely, as has been proved, that it is as useless, 
and as much out of place, to assail southern slavery, in 
New England, as it would be in Old England ; and that 
the people of the North have no more connection with 

southern slavery, and can no more effect its overthrow, 
3# 



XXX MR. THOMPSON 

than the ladies of Edinburgh ! Mark what Mr Beth- 
une says respecting the murderous spirit of the south- 
ern slaveholders ! The question is supposed to be pro- 
pounded to Mr. Thompson — ' Did you go to that part 
of the country where slavery prevailed, and tell them 
how wrong it was?' Mr. Bethune makes the follow- 
ing reply for Mr. T. — ' Oh no ! if I had they would 
have hanged me ! ' i. e. for simply being told that slave- 
ry was wrong, they would have ' lynched ' Mr. 
Thompson, without judge or jury, and in defiance 
of every just law, whether human or divine. What 
proud and blood-thirsty oppressors, according to the rep- 
resentation of the Rev. George W. Bethune ) And 
yet Mr. Thompson was taunted as a coward, for not 
rushing needlessly and rashly into the jaws of these hu- 
man tigers, although he had a mighty and all-important 
work first to perform in the Northern states, even if he 
could have lectured with safety at the South ! But I 
dismiss the reverend jeerer, who trembled while he af- 
fected to laugh at the powerful speeches of Mr. T. 

With regard to the other charge that was sometimes 
brought against Mr. Thompson — that he was an emis- 
sary of the British Government — as it was never very 
seriously urged, and is too ridiculous to require refutation, 
I shall let it pass without comment. There is a third 
allegation which is more plausible, but not less false — 
that he was sent out to this country, to do a work of 
mischief, by the enemies of our republic — by those 
who desire to see our Union dashed into atoms ! Since 
the world was made, whoever heard of foes attempting 
to bring a nation to repentance for its sins, in order to 
destroy it? Do they not always assail that which is good 



IN ENGLAND. XXX \ 

and precious, and aim to extend licentiousness and 
crime ? The truth is, the abolitionists of England, as a 
body, constitute the republican, the genuine reform 
party of that country. They are the sincere, disinter- 
ested; ardent friends of American liberty and union; 
they wish to see our country purged from every stain of 
blood ; they desire her prosperity and improvement ; 
they love and cherish those civil and religious institu- 
tions which we value most highly ; they admire the 
theory of our government ; they are in truth our coun- 
trymen, our brethren, our neighbors, in feeling, in pur- 
pose, in christian love and sympathy. They will ulti- 
mately abolish the unholy union of Church and State 
in England. The extortionate tithe-system— the 
House of Lords — landed monopolies, he. he. — But 
they are retarded in their noble efforts at reform, by the 
inconsistency and oppression of this republic. All our 
divisions and tumults are seized upon with avidity by 
the tories, and ascribed to our form of government* — 
whereas, that form is the most rational, and therefore 
the most substantial, of all human governments, and 
whereas it is well known among ourselves that the divi- 
sions and tumults alluded to are the fruits of slavery, 
exclusively and comprehensively. They are freedom 
clashing with oppression, light with darkness, free labor 
with slave labor. If our slave system were abolished, 
the union of our great nation would be perfect. If it be not 
speedily removed, strong as we are, it will overcome and 
destroy us. The tories in Europe do not desire its re- 



* Seethe speech of Sir Robert Peel, at Farmvorth. 



XXXII MR. THOMPSON 

moval. They desire the downfal of this republic. 
They would gladly assist in mobbing George Thomp- 
son, for his republican labors among us. American 
slaveholders and aristocrats belong to their party, and 
hate liberty and equality for all the people, as sincerely 
as the autocrat of Russia, or the Duke of Wellington, 
or Sir Robert Peel. The tory party in England were 
against the abolition of the foreign slave trade, and the 
emancipation of the slaves in the British dependen- 
cies. They always have been, and always will be, 
astories, in favor of both white and black slavery. It 
was the friends of America — the friends of universal 
liberty — who sent George Thompson to our shores, 
without cost to ourselves, that he might labor for the 
destruction of our worst foe — the foe of free and right- 
eous government — the foe of God and man. 

It is necessary to bring this brief sketch to a close. 
Having made all suitable arrangements for his departure, 
Mr. Thompson, with his family, bade adieu to his na- 
tive land, August 17, 1834, on board the ship Cham- 
plain. When one week at sea, he wrote the following 
stanzas : 



PRAYER AT SEA. 

Eternal Father ! God of love ! 

Lord of the sea, and earth and sky ; 
O raise my heart to things above, 

And let my soul on thee rely. 

To traverse now the mighty deep, 
Far from the regions of my birth; 

The rushing waters by me sweep, 
And bear me from my native earth: 



IN ENGLAND. XXXIII 

But not from Thee ! — Thy spirit dwells 

With man, howe'er his course may change; 

Where verdure springs, where ocean swells, 
Thy power, Thy providence doth range. 

Delightful thought! though tempests frown, 
And waves uplift their crests on high ; 

A Father's glance thou sendest down, 
Thou hearest still thy children's cry. 

Storms, lightning, thunders, all are thine; 

All ministers to do thy will; 
Thou dost their power, and course define, 

They hear thy mandate, ' Peace, be still !* 

Then let me in thy care confide, 

Long as the voyage of life shall last; 
Nor be this humble prayer denied — 

< Father be mine ivhen life is past f 

Mr. Thompson arrived safely at New York, Sep- 
tember 20, 1834. The event created much sensa- 
tion in the city, which soon spread throughout the 
country. I shall trace his career among us in a Preface 
to the second volume of his Speeches and Letters. 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 

Boston, April, 1836. 



XXXIV MR. THOMPSON 



The following graphic description of Mr. Thompson's 
person and oratory is copied from the Manchester 
(Eng.) Times : 

MR. THOMPSON. 

The following is the substance of a correspondent's reply, who was ask- 
ed his opinion of Mr. Thompson, as a public speaker, and which we here 
subjoin to our report of his speech. 

1 With his person, you are acquainted — about "five feet ten inches — slen- 
der, yet firm — a little Roman about the nose — a deep, dark, keen eye — rud- 
dy, though not the delicate hue of the rose — a frame, in short, in which 
health appears to have taken up its abode — with the apparent agility of a 
racer. His manner is always easy, though not in every instance graceful, 
and invariably natural. His actions correspond with his eye, varied and 
quick ; and though redundant, never palling, and never offensive by being 
awkward. It is impossible to pronounce him a finished speaker, and yet 
there is that about him which at once disarms criticism, and prevents you 
from finding fault. There is an energy which often entrenches on violence, 
but it is not energy throughout', — it is not the torrent over the wide and 
inclined campaign, which sweeps on with one continued force; — it belongs 
more to the flood among the mountains, rolling over tremendous heights, and 
in proportion to the depth of its falls, again tossing its spray upward — with 
breaks and pauses among the rocks — and then murmuring along the plainer 
portions of the country — and rarely ever, in its loudest roar, its boldest 
dashes, distracting to the ear of the by-stander. The secret of this is, 
Mr. Thompson is never vehement, never impassioned, except incases where 
truth — from its strength, and fact — from its atrocity and other pecu- 
liar characteristics, require it; then, and then only, is he energetic — 
powerful — overwhelming — almost oppressive. His voice is, upon the whole, 
sound — though not like the bell ; it is varied, full — equally adapted to the 
colloquial, the sarcastic, the ironical, the pleasant, the oratorical — in each 
of which he indulges ; affording the same variety to the ear, which a rich 
landscape exhibits to the eye. If his energy were brought to bear upon 
that of Dr. Chalmers, the difference would be found to exist in the cir- 
cumstance of the latter giving out at greater lengths what the former lets 
out at intervals ; in the one, the disturbed air comes in more frequent and 
unexpected gusts; in the other, the tempest is of longer continuance — yet 
both moving leaf, twig, branch, and stem, of the human forest, over which 



IN ENGLAND. XXXV 

the voice is permitted to pass. With considerable acuteness, is combined 
great strength of intellect; and though Mr. Thompson's is not a mind that 
would delight to enter into the various subtleties and niceties of an ar- 
gument — pursuing it through all its intricacies, doublings, and bearings — 
ferreting it out of all its lurking places — and keeping close to its heels to 
the very last, like hounds in the chase; yet he possesses what is infinitely 
better for his purpose and for the occasion — and this, by the way, is no bad 
proof of the sagacity of the Anti-slavery Society in the selection they have 
made — a ready perception of evil, and a masculine grasp. The facts are 
too glaring — the subject too atrocious, for a profuse expenditure of logic. 
He proceeds to work, therefore, like the eagle, who, on perceiving his prey 
never for a moment, busies himself in examining the plumage, the bill, the 
head, or the tail of the bird upon which he is about to pounce, but views it 
as -a whole — makes one fell swoop — clutches it at once — arid bears it up, 
writhing in very agony, till lost for ever to the gaze of the spectators. 
There is no delicacy in his handling — a mode of proceeding that ought to 
have been commenced much earlier; it is prey that he has to deal with — 
prey, to be destroyed — not for its value — but because of its odiousness, hav- 
ing been hurtful to the life and property of others — and in the destruction 
of which the multitude are induced to revel. This is the man for the work. 
If there is a naked point, it is seen ; and though bare before, it is still laid 
more bare to the public eye. If deception has been resorted to, it is expos- 
ed. If cruelty has been practiced, the branding iron is applied. He goes 
about the business somewhat in the manner of our friend Taylor, of Old- 
field lane. The "case has been in Use hands of others — it has been tamper- 
ed with — it has now become desperate — life is at stake. There is no cere- 
mony — rank never once occurs to the mind — health is the object — a few 
twinges and writhings in the patient are observed, so intently is the eye 
fixed upon the grand object to be attained — health, perfect health. Never, 
never, did man, take captive an audience sooner or more effectually, on the 
slave question, than did Mr. Thompson. He bore his hearers along with 
him, after firstdrawing them to him — relieved them every now and then from 
an intensity of feeling, under which was manifested the stillness of the tomb, 
the fixed eye, and the palpitating heart, by some lighter, but more graphic 
picture presented to the imagination, breaking out as suddenly as a gleam 
of sunshine, or coming upon them as unexpectedly as a beautiful, yet pic- 
turesque scene, in a lovely valley, invisible to the tourist, till he is brought 
in his rambles to the verge of the elevated ground in the vicinity. He is 
as good a painter as he is a powerful declaimer, and is logician enough for 
the subject in hand ; and modest as was the designation of an address, 
which he gave to the remarks that were made, it would have pressed with 
the weight of a severe lecture upon the hearts and upon the understanding.? 
of the least susceptible, and the least intellectual, of the anti-abolitionists, 



XXXVI MR. THOMPSON 

had they been present on the occasion; and what was doubtless more 
agreeable to others, he did not* read them a lecture.' 

In speaking of Mr. Thompson's argumentative powers, it is by no means 
insinuated that there is any essential defect in the manner, the process, or 
the result of his reasonings. He sustains no injury when it is affirmed that 
he is not a Locke, not a Reid, not a Beattie, not a Dugald Stuart. There 
are many gradations of intellect between a person of respectable talents 
and the first of these masters. He may not reach any of these, and yet sur- 
pass millions of the human species. His is not the long and even thread of 
the finest spun cotton, but a logic of points and angles, shooting out in un- 
expected directions, and excessively annoying to the persons against whom 
it is directed. It is the logic, not of the study, but of the market, the ex- 
change, and the counting-house ; the logic, not of the few, but of the mul- 
titude. It is, in short, the logic of the lightning, whose stroke is death to 
the objection of his opponent, whose flush is conviction to the observer,' 



THE SUBSTANCE OF A SPEECH 



Delivered in the Weslcyan Methodist Chapel, Irwell 
Street, Salford, Manchester, ( Eng ) on Monday, Au- 
gust VSth, 1832.* by George Thompson, Esq., being a 
Reply to Mr, Borthwick's statements on the subject of 
Slavery. 

Mr. George Thompson, who had been delivering lec- 
tures on Colonial Slavery in Manchester and the neighbor- 
ing towns, appeared in the Wesleyan Chapel, Irwell street, 
on Monday, August 13, in order to give a reply, agreeably 
to advertisement, to Mr. Borthvvick, a pro-slavery gentle- 
man. The moment Mr. Thompson was recognised, walk- 
ing along the aisle towards the vestry, a burst of applause 
immediately proceeded from the auditory. Precisely at 
seven o'clock he ascended the pulpit, accompanied by 
the Boroughreeve, William Hill, Esq. ; Mr. Peter Clare, 
one of the Secretaries of the Anti-slavery Society, and by 
Mr. James Everett, one of the members of the Committee. 
To the latter was assigned the office of arranging and 
handing to the speaker the documentary papers requsite to 
support the great cause of humanity. The large and 
beautiful chapel was crowded with a highly respectable 
auditory ; and never was a speaker more enthusiastically 
received — more attentively heard — more feelingly respond- 
ed to. Mr. Borthvvick and his friends sat immediately 
below the speaker. 

Mr. Hill. — Before I introduce the gentleman who is to 
address you this evening I have one observation to make. 
A party of gentlemen have done me the honor to address 
a note to me, inquiring whether the discussion will be 
confined to the gentleman who is to address you. As I 
have not had the opportunity of a personal interview with 
these gentlemen, I beg leave to state, that the discussion 
here will be confined to Mr. Thompson alone, and if any 
gentleman has any thing to say, afterwards, I shall be 
happy to see him either in the vestry, or at my house. 
With these few observations I beg to introduce to you 



38 LECTURE 

George Thompson, Esq., the advocate of the Anti-slavery 
Society. 

Mr. Thompson here stepped to the front of the pulpit, 
and was again received with deafening cheers. As soon as 
these had subsided, he addressed his audience as fol- 
lows : — 

I think I may assume that all here are fully acquainted 
with the circumstances under which we are met this even- 
ing. This is the fifth time I have had the honor of ap- 
pearing before a Manchester and Salford auditory. For 
] 1 months previously to my coming here, I had been rapidly 
travelling through the south-western and other parts of 
England, and I think I may safely leave it to you, whether 
or not I am a friend to the safe and immediate abolition of 
slavery. I came to Manchester humbly and zealously, 
but sincerely and upon Christian principles, to discuss the 
great, the momentous, the high moral question, whether 
slavery— whether British colonial slavery— shall continue, or 
whether there is humanity enough, — self denial enough, — 
zeal enough, sufficient Christianity in British bosoms, and 
sufficient security in British arms and British religion, to 
do our duty, to open the door of the prison house, and ' bid 
the oppressed go free.' How I have discharged my duty 
you are all witnesses. 

I have calumniated no man. When I opened my mis- 
sion I simply contended that slavery was an evil in the 
sight of God, and that therefore it ought to be immedi- 
ately and forever abolished. It has been laid to my 
charge that I have spoken of the absent. I confess it. 
I have spoken of the 755,000 distressed human beings 
who are absent, and cannot therefore plead their own 
cause; who are distant, and have no means of making their 
complaints heard across the wide Atlantic ; who have no 60 
or 70 members in the House of Commons to represent 
their interests, (cheers ;) who have no paid agents, (great 
cheering) in Berkley square, in Cavendish square, and in 
Whitehall place; who have no one that can drive down 
in his carriage to Downing street, and threaten the minis- 
ter, if he do not do this or that, he will withhold his in- 
fluence and support from him. (Cheers.) They have no 
friends like these. Their friends are they who are influ- 
enced alone by religion, by humanity, by a sense of duty, 



AT SALFORD. 39 

and by a remembrance of that day which to all is fast ap- 
proaching, when they will be called upon to say how they 
have conducted themselves towards these unfortunate 
beings. (Cheers.) The time is fast coming when, having 
crossed the river of death, there will be none whose suffer- 
ings you can mitigate, no sick to relieve, none to whom 
you can give advice and consolation ; then for ever will 
the destines of man be fixed, and he who is 'unholy will 
be unholy still/ 

But peradventure, with this good cause before us, we 
may not live in vain ; we may perhaps still do something 
to relieve our country from the foul stain that avarice and 
despotism have brought upon it; and so discharge our 
duty, as to receive from the lip of our friend the approv- 
ing words, ' Well done thou good and faithful servant.' 

I have done all in my power to induce this feeling, and 
I have been well received ; but it was reserved for me to 
visit Manchester before I found out my real importance. 
Here I found myself of such consequence as to be visited 
by three hired advocates from the West India planters, who 
came, strangely came, with West India money in their 
pockets, to do — what? To be convinced, forsooth. 
(Laughter.) This is a strange occurrence, than which I 
never met with a stranger, that they should send their 
three principal agents to be convinced by George Thomp- 
son. But it is hard to find the way to a man's understanding 
through his breeches pocket; it is like a man's cominor to 
be convinced, who, if he be convinced, shall have his ra- 
tions stopped. However, if it should come to pass that 
they are convinced, and that they write to St. James' 
street, and say they are converts to the opinions of the vast 
majority — do I speak truly or not? — (cheers,) of the 90 
out of 100, or of 999 out of 1000; why then, I say, it would 
be noble ; and let them trust for their porridge to the mercy 
of Providence, or trust to the eleemosynary bounty of man- 
kind for means to prevent the necessity of their having oc- 
casion to do such dirty work, as to endeavor to perpetuate 
the system of negro slavery. (Applause.) But this was 
not sufficient; by some hocus-pocus, I suddenly find my- 
self visited by an old friend from Nottingham, in the char- 
acter of a West India planter, and by the ' merest acci- 
dent,' no doubt, by two or three gentlemen from Liverpool, 



40 LECTURE 

who, with most, stentorian lungs, made a very beautiful and 
hearty chorus, by calling out, ever and anon, ' hear, hear, 
hear, hear.' (Laughter.) I say by the ' strangest acci- 
dent,' by the strangest combination of circumstances that 
ever I met with, I suddenly find myself visited by the Sec- 
retary of the West India Association; by two other gen- 
tlemen, by a planter from Nottingham and by several gen- 
tlemen from Liverpool, but how many deponent sayeth not. 
However, thanks to the railroad, these gentlemen hear of 
my lecture in Manchester, and, by the power of steam, are 
here in a pig's whisper. (Laughter.) Then come the 
eventful scenes of the lecture night, and I am asked by 
Mr. Borthwick, ' If there be any thing in your address to 
which I object, may I have the liberty to reply ? '—to 
which I answered, ' I had no objection; but I said that 
the room was engaged, and the meeting called for a spe- 
cific purpose.' I said, however, that, ' he had power to do 
as I had done, if he could find friends to meet him.' Well, 
I delivered that lecture, and received an intimation that a 
reply would be given ; that my lecture was not liked ; and 
that the individual would really, and truly, and clearly 
make a reply to it. But out of the nine distinct portions 
of that lecture one only was touched upon and the rest for- 
gotten. Certainly in this age of accidents this was very 
natural, particularly when the gentleman had come all the 
way from London, one hundred and seventy miles, to de- 
liver a speech which had been retailed there, I don't 
know how many times. But the great charge against me 
was, that I dared to caluminate absent individuals, the 
West India planters, the merchants and the mortgagees of 
West India property. I call upon all who heard me then, 
to say if that charge be true. I stand here not to calum- 
niate a single individual, not to vituperate a single indi- 
vidual ; but I stand here to discuss, without animosity to 
any man, the great question of British Colonial Slavery. 
However, in defiance of truth, it was assumed that I had 
calumniated absent individuals, and that he would not else 
have been there. Is that charge true ? I merely took the 
position, that slavery is an evil in the sight of God, and 
ought to be immediately and forever abolished. To this 
no distinct reply was given. You all remember the theo- 
ological portion of his discourse, I shall shortly come to 



AT SALFORD. 41 

speak of him as a theologian. The next position I took 
was, that we ought to love our neighbor as ourselves; that 
we ought to apply the golden rule, of ' doing unto others 
as we would that others should do unto us ; ' and that we 
ought to ' remember those that are in bonds as bound with 
them.' Has this been replied to ? It has only been glanc- 
ed at ; and you will perceive, that by the ' merest acci- 
dent, 5 all the rest of my discourse was forgotten. There 
was no reply ; yet REPLY was the largest word in his 
placard calling the meeting. There was also a quotation 
of scripture on his card. I like the gentleman's going to 
the Bible for quotations. His quotation is : — ' He that is 
first in his own cause seemeth just -but his neighbor com- 
eth and searcheth him.' Why then did he not do his duty "?•'• 
I charge him with a gross dereliction of his duty, — he has 
not searched me ; would that he had, instead of delivering 
those stale and trumpery arguments in palliation of slavery, 
which have been delivered from time immemorial, and en- 
deavoring to render our industrious artizans discontented 
by allusions to the ' four parlors and the saloon ' of the 
negro. However, we will forgive this if he will mend his 
manners, and go on with his duty of searching me. If he 
chooses to go to Proverbs I could remark that we were not 
the first in the cause. No, it was the man stealer, the 
blood-thirsty money-getting British merchant. They were 
the first ; and we are come to search them. However, I 
will make no further comment upon that portion of scrip- 
ture, but refer him to another in the same book, Proverbs, 
1st chapter J Oth to 10th verses :— 

* My son if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. 

1 If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily 
for the innocent without cause: 

« Let us swallow them up alive as the grave ; and whole, as those that 
go down into the pit: 

'We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil : 

' Cast in thy lot among us ; let us all have one purse. 

' My son, walk not the in the way with them; refrain thy foot from 
their path: 

' For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.' 

- Well then, the conclusion I drew, from the premises 
already stated was, that if there was in our minds any re- 
cognition of the authority of the scriptures, and in our 
hearts any disposition to adopt them as principles of human 
conduct, then all worldly considerations ought to sink 
4* 



42 LECTURE 

into insignificance, while interposing between us and a 
paramount duty. Has this been refuted ? No ; it has not 
been noticed. Again; I went on to explain the objects 
of the meeting, which were to seek the immediate and to- 
tal extinction of slavery ; not, observe, the destruction of 
the planters, not the spoliation of property, not the injury 
of commerce, not to deprive the widow and the fatherless 
of their pittance, but the accomplishment of a plan of re- 
demption, both for the oppressor and the oppressed ; of the 
former from the demoralizing influence of the system upon 
him, and of the latter from the degredation and misery in- 
separable from a state of abject servitude. Was this im- 
proper ? has its impropriety been shewn in the way of 
reply ? No. The gentleman declared again and again 
that he agreed with me, and yet we are at dagger's points. 
He took precisely the same ground as I did, except that 
abolition should not be immediate. That it should be 
done, but not now. I am an abolitionist. He is an 
abolitionist ; and yet, though we differ on so few points, 
' I will pursue you,' said this very man, ' from place to 
place like your evil genius.' But there appears to be a 
whole host of genii. My cry is, ' a clear stage and a fair 
hearing,' and then come on, come on, come on ! (Loud 
cheers.) Ay, though you have the whole of the West 
India committee at your heels, come on! With this book 
(the Bible) in my hand — with slavery and chains, and 
christians for the slave's masters, I shall never fear the 
issue of the contest. What was my next point ! I de- 
nounced slavery as unjust and iniquitous in its origin, 
its progress and present operations, and 1 appealed to Jer- 
emie. And here let me get my friend to put down that 
word. Jeremie, Jeremie, Jeremie. But not a word of 
Jeremie did we hear from him. I appealed to Jeremie's 
Essays on Colonial Slavery, pages 5, 6, 7 and 8, and has 
any reply been offered by way of invalidating the testi- 
mony of an eye and ear witness! No. I appealed to the 
same testimony, page 102, in reference to West India 
insurrections: has this been disproved? Have you 
met with a reply? No. What did I glance at next? I 
spoke of the massacre of about 2,000 negroes, of the de- 
molition of chapels, of the persecution of missionaries, of 
Church Colonial Unions for the banishment of all sectari- 



AT SALFORD. 43 

ans, of the conduct of white magistrates, white planters, 
and white militiamen, who engaged in those bloody trans- 
actions. I spoke of the treatment of Mr. Knibb's deacon, 
who was flogged and ironed for praying that God would 
support his Christian minister. I referred to extracts from 
Jamaica papers, particularly the ' Christian Record, 5 a 
Jamaica periodical. And was I replied to? No. After 
all the ferocious conduct of these Jamaica individuals, not 
one of these disinterested West Indian agents, — not one 
of these friends to the abolition of slavery, has lifted up 
his voice to denounce these infernal proceedings in the 
Island of Jamaica. This speaks volumes. Believe them 
if you will ; believe that they are with the negro ; believe 
that they would give their whole heart and hand to the 
abolition of slavery, when not one of them has lifted up his 
voice against the wanton destruction of the negro, or the 
fiend-like persecution of the missionary ! 

On the practice of slavery, I spoke of five negroes who 
had been flogged for picking grass, and would have expos- 
ed themselves to the same punishment if they had diso- 
beyed orders ; a case published in the ' Christian Record.' 
Has this been answered ? No : he spoke only of the four 
parlors and saloon of the negro. There he stuck, and 
never went beyond its confines in his speech. I read 
part of thirty-four advertisements for runaway negroes, 
and he spoke of the condition of English laborers. I spoke 
of brand-marks, of sabre-marks, of flogging, and of the 
loss of fingers and toes, and challenged him to produce 
any portion of the community to exhibit appearances like 
these. Was there any reply to this 1 Not a syllable was 
granted to me. I stated next that the argument of danger 
was fallacious. I said they saw no danger in building 
ships, in manning them with British seamen, in paying for 
them with British money — no danger in burning towns, 
stealing the inhabitants, throwing them into the sea, pack- 
ing them up in hogsheads, and in continuing the system of 
Colonial Slavery ; but they profess to see dangers in liber- 
ating the slave, though protected by British troops, a pow- 
erful militia, a numerous and loyal free black popula- 
tion, British laws, a British Governor, a House of Assem- 
bly, and all the encouragement and protection which 
humanity, justice, and religion can afford. Was there any 



44 LECTURE 

reply to this 1 Not a word. I stated that compensation 
was the ground of their opposition ; that the planters 
wished to make a market of slavery ; that those concerned 
were determined to sell it as dear as possible ; and that 
they were now striving to wring from the humanity of 
the people of England a last price for the abandonment of 
the system. Has there been any reply to this ? No. 

I will presently show that this representative of the 
West India body absolutely put the members of that body 
beyond the pale of compensation ; proved that they would 
be infinite gainers by emancipation, and that they would 
be dishonest and avaricious in the extreme, if they should 
claim indemnification for the liberation of those whom this 
advocate declared were already a cause of loss to their 
owners. But I will tell that gentleman why his party asks 
compensation. They know the people of this country 
anxiously desire the extinction of slavery ; they know that 
the humane, and the benevolent, and the pious, would not 
hesitate to make some pecuniary sacrifice to get rid of the 
odious blot, and therefore they have determined to make the 
best feelings of our nature subserve the gratification of their 
cupidity. We all know that the most virtuous and amiable 
of men are frequently made the dupes of the designing, that 
' honest men are the soft easy chusions on which knaves 
repose and fatten ; ' and acting upon this, they will seek 
to make the awakened feelings of your bosoms in behalf 
of the captive, add to the weight of their unhallowed purse. 
My opponent thought proper to give a bill payable on 
Tuesday evening last. That bill was seen upon every 
wall in the neighborhood, duly accepted and made paya- 
ble at the Town Hall, Sal ford ; but lo ! when the time 
came, and a large auditory assembled to witness the hon- 
oring of the draft, there were no ' effects,' although the 
acceptor was surrounded by many friends ; yet in the time 
of need they could not muster enough of the needful, to 
save their West India advocate from insolvency, and he 
now appears before you to take the benefit of the act. 
(Immense cheering and laughter.) 

I had dividend my address upon the previous evening 
into several distinct and independent branches, and there- 
by afforded them an opportunity of dividing and subdivid- 
ing the work of reply amongst them, if it were found too 



AT SALFORD, 



45 



gigantic for one. And, if they have read Adam Smith 
upon the advantages to be derived from a division of labor, 
it is wonderful they did not avail themselves of his philoso- 
phy on the night of reply. The task might then, perhaps, 
have been accomplished. To Mr. Borthvvick might have 
been assigned the theological divsion, together with the 
less grave, and more grateful duty of complimenting the 
ladies ; Mr. Peart might have undertaken to show the 
practice of slavery in the Colonies; Mr. Saintsbury a vin- 
dication of the purity, piety, and perfect disinterestedness 
of the St. James street Committee ; Mr. Shand, the claims 
of the shipping interest of Liverpool, and Mr. Franklin 
might have closed the evening's entertainment by the ex- 
hibition of a pro-slavery panoramic illustration of the 
principal events in the history of the system from the 
time of Elizabeth downwards. — I was careful to give the 
gentleman my definition of immediate emancipation, and 
stated it distinctly — not that it was a freedom from law — 
not that it was a freedom from labor — not that it was 
a freedom to destroy each other, and to unite to destroy 
their masters — that I pleaded only for a legislative enact- 
ment, abolishing the unnatural right of property in the 
bodies and souls of men and their posterity, and a substi- 
tution, at the same time, of public, judicial, and responsi- 
ble authority, for private, arbitrary, and irresponsible 
control. That was all I asked, and all, 1 contend, we 
mean by immediate abolition. They are now governed 
by the planters, than whom, to govern, there is not a more 
unfit class of men in the world. Is there no wisdom in 
the House of Commons — is there no wisdom in the House 
of Assembly — can none but planters govern the negro ? 
I contend that neither a Wilbeforce, nor a Howard ought 
to have arbitrary control or power over his fellow-man; 
that no man should be allowed, at his caprice, to scourge 
his servant. What is the security of our property and our 
lives, but that men shall not be judges in their own cause, 
(hear, hear,) that they shall be compelled to appeal to an 
unpacked jury to prove their innocence or guilt? But, 
in the West India islands, there are planters for judges, 
planters for magistrates, planters for juries, and planters 
for witnesses ; all ' lords of the ascendant.' Yet it was 
asserted by Mr. Borthwick the other night, that there was 



46 LECTURE 

an equal law both for the slave and the planter, and it 
seems I acted contrahones mores in crying ' No, No, No ! ' 
Now for my reply. I will not do as he did, forget the 
discourse I am professing to reply to. I will track him 
close through every lane — step by step. I will begin at 
the beginning, and will not leave off till I get to the end. 
I shall have anticipated some portions of this reply, but I 
will begin. He said, ' I appear here as the representative 
of a large and influential body.' Some one inquired 
what body he did represent? and he replied, ' The West 
Indian body.' He said that the planters had been calum- 
niated. I had said, emphatically, it was against the sys- 
tem only that I raised my voice — my desire was to raise 
the slave, whose immortal destiny is like my own — that 
Christian men should have fellowship with him — that they 
should sympathise with him, and that no slave should be 
found in the British dominions. (Cheers.) The next 
assertion of my Hon. Opponent was, that it was not a 
question of passion, but of policy. With them it is a ques- 
tion of policy, — unmixed policy. We commence with 
duty — they commence with policy. Then, again, he said, 
it was not a question of imagination, but a question of re- 
ligion. V/e shall presently come to the religious part of 
the question. He said also it was a question of right be- 
tween man and man. I like that position uncommonly 
well. We will take it for our motto, and inscribe it on 
our banners, which shall be waved in England, Ireland, 
and Scotland, < RIGHT BETWEEN MAN AND MAN. 5 
(Cheers.) Let it be so discussed. But here we are at 
issue on the question of rights, for they plead for the 
right to do as they like with their fellow-beings. But a 
greater man than I, or that gentleman has said — and 
when you have applauded the sentiment I will tell you the 
name of the author : — 

'Tell me not of rights — talk not of the prop? rty of the planter in his 
slaves. I deny the right — I acknowledge not the property. The princi- 
ples, the feelings of our common nature, rise in rebellion against it. Be 
the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the sentence is the 
same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of the laws that sanction such a 
claim ! There is a law above all the enactments of human codes. — the same 
throughout the world, the same in all times — such as it was before the dar- 
ing genius of Columbus pierced the night of ages, and opened to one world, 
sources of power, wealth and knowledge ; to another, all unutterable woes; 
—such it is at this day : it is the law written by the finger of God on the 



AT SALFORD. 47 

heart of man; and by that law, eternal and unchangeable, while men des- 
pise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they shall reject with indig- 
nation the wild and guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man ! 
In vain you appeal to treaties, to covenants between nations. The cove- 
nants of the Almighty, whether the oli covenant or the new, denounce such 
unholy pretensions. To those laws did they of old refer, who maintained 
the African slave trade. Such treaties did they cite, and not untruly; for 
by one shameful compact you bartered the glories of Blenheim for the traffic 
in blood. Yet, in despite of law and of treaty, that infernal traffic is now 
destroyed, and its votaries put to death like other pirates. How came this 
change to pass! Not assuredly by Parliament leading the way ; but the coun- 
try at length awoke; the indignation of the people was kindled; it descen- 
ded in thunder, and smote the traffic, and scattered its guilty profits to the 
wind. Now then, let the planters beware — let their assemblies beware — 
let the government at home beware — let the Parliament beware ! The same 
country is once more awake, — awake to the condition of negro slavery; the 
same indignation kindles in the bosom of the same people; the same cloud 
is gathering that annihilated the slave trade: and, if it shall descend again, 
they, on whom its crash may fall, will not be destroyed before I have warn- 
ed them: but T pray that their destruction may turn away from us the 
more terrible judgments of God.' 

And now for the author — Lord Brougham. (Loud and 
Jong continued cheering.) Ay, the man who, from his 
early days, has been ardently attached to civil and relig- 
ious liberty, and who had said, 

* If you place in my hands the sacred trust of representing you in the 
Commons House of Parliament, you arm me with power to complete the good 
work which we have began together, nor will I rest from my labors until, 
by the blessing of God, I have seen an end of the abuses which bind Eng- 
land to the ground, and the mists dispersed from the eyes of the ignorant, 
and the chains drop from the hands of the slave!'' 

That man is still alive. Cheer him on to victory — hold 
up his hands — strengthen his heart — give him Public 
Opinion (tremendous cheering) as his fulcrum, and upon it 
he will move the odious and detestable fabric to its foun- 
dation ; but when it tumbles to the ground, I hope that 
not one of the gentlemen from St. James's street will fall 
beneath its ruins. My Hon. Opponent ventured forth an- 
other maxim, and what was that? A question of mercy, 
forsooth, to the slave! What! is it mercy to annihilate 
the slave — is it mercy to keep him in slavery, though you 
are told, in an accent of mercy, that he has got ' four par- 
lors and a saloon?' (Cheers.) Is it mercy to let him 
now so live that his whole race shall be extinct in 
fifty years — in a condition in which they are dying so 
fast, that, in half a century, not one of the descendants 
of the present generation will be found ? Is this mercy ? 
I again ask, though^we are told, with so much emphasis, 



48 LECTURE 

that the slave has ' four parlors and a saloon?' Mr. Borth- 
wick asserted that the master could have no possible mo- 
tive for flogging his slave. He appeared quite panic- 
struck at the mere idea that the master could flog his slave 
to death. Now I will give this gentleman a few facts. 
If the slaves are not murdered by any other means, they 
are murdered by what is very properly called economical 
oppression. Had he been at my former lectures he would 
have heard me prove that the planters cannot be humane 
if they would — that they cannot in all cases clothe and 
sustain the slaves, and that it is impossible in the present 
condition of the colonies to do them justice. He would 
have heard that the majority of them lodge in miserable 
cabins: if he does not know it, he ought to know it, and 
it 1 is a pity that a deputation from St. James's street should 
come to Manchester to learn how the slaves in the West 
Indies are treated. (Cheers.) I will quote this gentle- 
man's own words : — ' It is not rational to believe that under 
any circumstances a master would flog his slave to death. 
It would be the destruction of his own property, and an 
act of wantonness and folly not conceivable,' and yet im- 
mediately afterwards, to show, if possible, that the charac- 
ter of slavery has changed for the better, he makes quota- 
tions which completely subvert his own argument. He 
(Mr. Borthwick) alluded to a pamphlet which I now hold 
in my hand. Here are these boasted authorities ; and ' out 
of thy own mouth will I condemn thee.' (Cheers.) First, 
therefore, he calls upon us to reject the notion, that a mas- 
ter under any circumstances can be induced to destroy a 
slave, and yet shows, that in one establishment, 400 slaves 
were put to death for the fault of one.* (Applause.) The 
gentleman may take all the advantage of this, The case 
I am now about to quote has never been mentioned by me 
before. It is the celebrated case of the Mosses, and since 
the honorable gentleman cannot conceive any circum- 
stance which could induce a master or mistress to flog a 
slave to death, he shall have the benefit of it. I quote the 



* Mr. Thompson here referred to a pro-slavery pamphlet, quoted by Mr. 
Borthwick, 'entitled British Colonial Slavery compared with the Slavery 
of Pagan antiquity. 



AT SALFORD. 49 

words of that amiable man, Mr Huskisson, whom, I have 
no doubt, you all admired and deplored. In a communi- 
cation to the Colonies he says, 

s Kate was a domestic slave, and is stated to have been guilty of theft ; 
she is also accused of disobedience, in refusing to mend her clothes and do 
her work, and this was the more immediate cause of her punishment. On 
the 22dof July, 1828, she was confined in the stocks, and she was not re- 
leased till the 8th of August following, being a period of seventeen days. 
The stocks were so constructed, that she could not sit up and lie down at 
pleasure, and she remained in them night and day. During this period she 
was flogged repeatedly, one of the overseers thinks about six times, and red 
pepper was rubbed upon her eyes to prevent her sleeping. Tasks were given 
her which, in the opinion of the same overseer, she was incapable of perform- 
ing; sometimes because they were beyond her powers, at other times be- 
cause she could not see to do them on account of the pepper having been 
rubbed on her eyes: and she was flogged for failing to accomplish these 
tasks. A violent distemper had been prevalent on the plantation during 
the summer. It is in evidence, that on one of the days of Kate's confine- 
ment she complained of fever, and that one of the floggings which she re- 
eived was the day after she had made this complaint. When she was 
taken out of the stocks she appeared cramped, and was then again flogged. 
The very day of her release she was sent to field-labor, (though heretofore 
a house servant,) and on the evening of the third day ensuing was brought 
before her owners as being ill and refusing to work, and she then again 
complained of having had fever. They were of opinion that she had none 
then, but gave directions to the driver if she should be ill to bring her to 
them for medicines in the morning. The driver took her to the negro- 
house, and again flogged her; though, at this time, apparently, without or- 
ders from her owners to do so. In the morning, at seven o'clock, she was 
taken to work in the field, where she died at noon.' 

[During the reading of the above extract, the strongest 
possible indignation was manifested by the auditory.] 

Mr. Borthwick says, ' if a man steals in this country 
you hang him ; but if he steals in the Colonies, he is flog- 
ged ' — ay, he is treated as Kate was. I did not introduce 
this case. It was my friend's case, and he brought it un- 
der your notice to show that there is the same law for the 
master as for the slave. Now what should have been the 
charge preferred against the perpetrators of this crime? 
Murder. But a Grand Jury could not be found in the 
Island to return a bill, and they were therefore indicted 
for a misdemeanor, and on that charge they were tried — 
a misdemeanor, for putting a poor girl in the stocks for 
seventeen days — for rubbing capsicum in her eyes — and 
for flogging her tiil she died ! 

I will now give Sir James Mackintosh's view on the 
subject, in reply to Mr. Irving, the Member of Bramber, 
and the would be Member for Clitheroe. (A laugh.) 
5 



50 LECTURE 

' The Honorable Member had had recourse to a species of argument respect- 
ing the case Mosses, which he remembered was used at the beginning of the 
debates on the proposed aboliton of the slave trade. A great West India 
proprietor said, on the occasion to which he had alluded, that the house 
might as well judge of the morals of England by the records of the Old 
Bailey, as to judge of the character of the West India planters from a few 
occurrences selected for the purpose of making an unfavorable impression 
on the public. To this Mr. Fox replied—' I do not wonder that the slave 
trade should remind the honorable gentleman of the Old Bailey. Nothing 
can be so congenial as the two subjects. Nevertheless, I will point out to 
the honorable gentleman a contrast between them. At the Old Bailey we 
hear of crimes which shock our moral feelings; but we are consoled by the 
punishment of the criminals. We read of crimes as atrocious in the West 
India Islands, but our moral feelings are shocked at hearing not only of the 
impunity of the criminals, but of their triumph.' In adverting to the case 
of the Mosses, the honorable member had, most unfortunately for his argu- 
ment, alluded to the case of Mrs. Hibner. The contrast which these cases 
presented between the moral feelings of the Bahamas, and the moral feel- 
ing of this country, was much more striking than the contrast to which Mr. 
Fox had formerly called the attention of the house. The offenders in the 
Bahamas having not only committed a murder, but committed it in the most 
barbarous manner possible, had been condemned to five month's imprison- 
ment. What followed 1 A memorial had been presented to the Colonial 
Secretary, signed by what were called the most respectable persons in the 
colonv, attesting that the character of these cruel murderers was generally 
one of great humanity, and praying for a remission of their punishment. 
That was the manner in which this atrocious crime was viewed in an 
island, the inhabitants of which were in no way demoralized, than as the 
possession of unbounded and irresponsible power always corrupted the 
heart of man. Nay, more, a public dinner, as a matter of triumph, was 
actually given by the chief persons in the colony, to the criminals who had 
barely escaped the most condign punishment for their offences. What was, 
on the other hand, the case in London when a criminal of the lowest order, 
this same Mrs. Hibner, whose crime was not aggravated by the considera- 
tion that she was possessed of information which ought to have taught her 
better, committed a similar offence 1 — He was not the apologist of the vin- 
dictive feeling exhibited by the populace on the occasion ; but it was well 
known, that they departed from the humanity which they usually exhibited 
towards the unfortunate persons who underwent the last sentence of the law. 
They could not conceal their horror at a crime, which, however, was far 
less atrocious than that which had been committed by the respectable 
Mosses; and even rent the air with shouts of triumph when they witnessed 
the payment of the dreadful penalty. In justice, however, to the people of 
London, he must observe, that he remembered only three instances in which 
they had thus deviated from their usual feelings of commiseration for suffer- 
ing criminals ; and those were all cases in which the punishment of death 
had been inflicted for the crime of murder, accompanied with circumstan- 
ces of peculiar cruelty. Thus, even in their errors, the generosity which 
belonged to their general character was strongly evinced.' 

This ' is the same law for the master as for the slave ; ' 
and yet these inhuman monsters were sentenced only to 
five months' imprisonment, the whole of what are called 
the respectable inhabitants of the Bahamas having prayed 
for a remission of punishment. Ay, and Mr. Irving, the 



AT SALFORD. 51 

would-be Member for Clitheroe, absolutely vindicated the 
conduct of the Mosses, because Esther Hibnerhad recent- 
ly behaved ill to some children in London, and had been 
executed for the crime. 

I refer to Lord Brougham once more : — 

* Mark the refinement of their wickedness ! I nowise doubt, that to 
screen themselves from the punishment of death due to their crimes, these 
wretches will now say — they did indeed say on their trial — that their hap- 
less victim died of disease. When their own lives were in jeopardy, they 
found that she had caught the fever, and died by the visitation of God. — 
But when the question was, Shall she be flogged again'? Shall she, who has 
for twelve days been fixed in the stocks under the fiery beams of a tropical 
sun, — who has been torn with the scourge from the nape of the neck to the 
plants of her feet, — who has had pepper rubbed in her eyes to ward off the 
sleep that might have stolen over her senses, and for a moment withdrawn 
her spirit from the fangs of her tormenters — shall she be subjected by 
those accursed fiends to the seventh scourging! Oh ! then she had no sign 
of fever ! she had caught no disease! she was all hale, and sound, and fit for 
the lash ! At seven she was flogged — at noon she died ! and those execra- 
ble and impious murderers soon found out that she had caught the malady, 
and perished by the ' visitation of God ! ' No, no ! I am used to examine 
circumstances, to weigh evidence, and I do firmly believe that she died by 
the murderous hand of man ! that she was killed and murdered ! It was 
wisely said by Mr. Fox, that when some grievous crime is perpetrated in a 
civilized community, we are consoled by finding in all breasts a sympathy 
with the victim, and an approval of the punishment by which the wrong- 
doer expiates his offence. But in the West Indies there is no such solace 
to the mind — there all the feelings flow in a wrong course — perverse, pre- 
posterous, unnatural — the hatred is for the victim, the sympathy for the tor- 
mentor ! I hold in my hand the proof of it in this dreadful case. The 
Mosses were condemned. by an iniquitous sentence; for it was only to a 
small fine and five months' imprisonment. The public indignation followed 
the transaction ; but it was indignation against the punishment, not the 
crime, and against the severity, not the lenity of the infliction.' 

And now at the present day, these gentlemen tell you 
that slavery exists by the visitation of God — they take up 
this book (the Bible) and maintain that slavery exists, 
with its sanction and by its authority. I give these gen- 
tlemen joy of their case of the Mosses. Well, I will now 
give them Lord Goderich's opinion, having offered to them 
the authorities of Fox, Mackintosh, and Lord Brougham, 
In the Parliamentary papers I hold in my hand is the case 
of a slave belonging to Mrs. Wildman. She trusted a 
white man with one of her pigs. Well, she went to be 
paid : was there any thing wrong in that? What did he 
do? He ordered her to be flogged, and pickle was after- 
wards rubbed in her back. Mr. Taylor, the manager, did 
all he could to bring the planter to justice, and yet he 
could not find justice enough in that blasted, wasted, 



52 LECTURE 

sunken, withered, impious, infernal island — where God's 
temples are demolished — from which holy missionaries are 
banished — and where 20,000 converted slaves are depriv- 
ed of a place in which to worship God — there was not 
justice to be found in the Island of Jamaica for a poor 
black woman, upon whose body was barbarously inflicted 
200 lashes. Finally, Mr. Taylor wrote to Lord Goderich ; 
and his Lordship after examining the evidence, con- 
cludes ; 

'Thus every effort was abortive, and thus it has been proved, that an 
attorney for an absentee proprietor may for months persevere in his attempt 
to obtain redress for an act of oppression committed on a slave under his 
charge, but unavailiugly. The strong impression made upon my mind by the 
conduct of the Clarendon magistracy, coupled wifli similar proceedings in 
other parochial authorities, is, that Councils of Protection are a mockery, 
and that where slave evidence is rejected by law, the slave has scarcely the 
shadow of protection from ill treatment. 1 ' 

I trust this documentary evidence will be deemed con- 
clusive, and I hope the worthy deputation will state with 
what facts we illustrate the nature and practice of their 
darling system. They will send intelligence to St. James's 
street of this night's proceedings, and I fancy I see the 
conclave now assembled. Two sheets of letter post, 
closely written on both sides, is read. Irwell street Chap- 
el crowded — great deal of the intelligence of the town 
present — three gentlemen in the pulpit besides the lectur- 
er — the lecturer's friend attending with a blue bag filled 
with Parliamentary papers. (Laughter.) 

I will now refer to a case which occurred on Lord 
Combermere's estate. And who is his Lordship 1 He is 
a large owner of West India property — a most humane 
man, and who selected his servants on his slave estates 
with the greatest care; yet what did his manager do? 
Why, he slaughtered the slaves on the estate by wholesale, 
so that in ten years, according to his system, the whole of 
them would have become extinct. The man was accused 
of being guilty of twelve murders — some of them were 
called manslaughters; yet there was not to be found in 
Nevis, or St. Kitt's, a jury who would find a bill against 
this man, that he might be put upon his trial. Lord Com- 
bermere at length heard of his atrocious conduct, and 
wrote to Lord Goderich on the subject. He says, 

c I have to thank you very much for your letter of the 20th instant, to- 
gether with papers relating to the abominable conduct of Mr. J. Walley, a 



AT SALFORD. 53 

manager upon my estate at Nevis. Upon my return from the East Indies 
I received letters from Governor Maxwell, and from Mr. Swindall, (who 
manages my St. Kitt's property, and is agent also for that in Nevis,) detail- 
ing the oppressive and inhuman conduct of Mr. Walley towards the ne- 
groes, and informing me that Mr. Swindall had, immediately the facts came 
to his knowledge, turned Mr. Walley away from the management of the 
Stapleton estate. I do assure you, my dear Lord, that this circumstance 
gave me considerable pain, and occasioned me much surprise; for when I 
was Governor of Barbadoes I visited my estates in St. Kitt's and Nevis, and 
placed new people in the management of them. I contributed the use of 
the plough and wheel-barrow for manual labor, and gave strict orders that 
the slaves should not be hard worked, and that they should be well clothed 
and fed, and all their comforts attended to. It was most gratifying to me, 
after my return from the East Indies, that my instructions had been implic- 
itly obeyed, and that no estates in those islands were in such fine order as 
mine, or the negroes so contented and happy. The gross and inhuman con- 
duct of Mr. Walley, has given me much pain ; and your Lordship may be as- 
sured that no expense or trouble on my part shall be spared in order to as- 
sist in bringing this criminal to justice : but I fear we cannot expect a jury 
at Nevis or St. Kitts to do their duty. Your Lordship knows me too 
well not to feel confident that every thing was done by me to bring this man 
to punishment, when I heard of his misconduct; but unfortunately I did not 
return from the East Indies till after his trial had taken place. I hope 
something will now be done in order to make an example of such a miscre- 
ant, and I have only again to assure you, that I have nothing so much at 
heart as the welfare and happiness of the negroes upon my estates, and Gov- 
vernor Maxwell and Mr. Swindall well know how anxious I have been re- 
specting their treatment, &c I need not add, that every effort shall be used 
by me for guarding against a recurrence of " such bad treatment of slaves 
upon my estates." ' 

That's the same law for the master as the slave ! (Hear, 
hear.) We shall see presently what is the law for the 
slave. Mr. Borthwick talked of the planters' wives, and 
of the planters' daughters, and he panegyrized the ladies 
of England, and talked of their virtue and beauty, but his 
compliments fell silent to the ground. He was doing that 
which never will succeed — he never will flatter the wo- 
men of England into an approbation of slavery. (Tre- 
mendous cheering, mingled with shouts of ' bravo.') 
' There were ladies in the West Indies,' he said, ' as fair 
as you, who have hopes, and fears, and sympathies in com- 
mon with your own.' And is there not, I would ask, a 
negro heart, a negro's home, and a negro's wife ? Has 
not the negro hopes, and fears, and sympathies ? Women 
of England ! I will never celebrate your beauty, your sym- 
pathy, your virtuous endearments, until you grant to me, 
that a negro's wife is as fair in the eyes of her husband as 
you are in yours. (Loud applause.) A planter said to a 
boy, the son of a slave, ' is your mother beautiful?' Mark 
5* 



54 LECTURE 

his reply. ' Can a mother be anything but beautiful in 
the eyes of a son ? ' (Loud cheers, and a cry of ' one 
cheer more.') Ought we not, Mr. Borthwick observes, to 
proceed so as to secure safety for the slave and the interest 
of the master? Yes, Mr. Borthwick, we ought to save 
the slave from the inhuman fiends in the Bahamas, from 
the whips, the pegs, the field-stocks, the collars of St. Lu- 
cia — save the slaves from the bullets of Col. Grignon, and 
from the fangs of the magistrates of Jamaica. (Applause.) 
It was recommended to the Governor of Jamaica by the edi- 
tor of the Jamaica Courant, to accept of a cargo of blood 
hounds from Cuba, to hunt down the negro. — Save him 
therefore from this sanguinary editor and the fangs of his 
blood-thirsty agents ! 

I shall presently call Mr. Borthwick to an account on 
the subject of manumission. T ask for safety for the slaves 
when they are engaged in the worship of God — I wish 
protection for the missionary — I desire to save Mr. Knibb's 
deacon from the scourge. The interest of the planter ! 
What is he now 1 A bankrupt. What has he been for 
years? A pauper. What have we, the people of Eng- 
land, done for him? We have given him more money, in 
hard cash, for his support, than is subscribed for all our 
missionary, bible, and tract societies, and all our private 
and public benevolent institutions, if their amount were 
doubled or trebled. And yet Mr. Borthwick says, that we 
don't care for the planter. Ungrateful man ! Not care for 
the planter? We nourished and brought him up, and in 
so doing, we corrupted him. Mr. Borthwick talked of 
slavery dying a natural death. Yes, it might have done, 
years ago, had we withheld our money. We suckled the 
monster, and are still sustaining him at the cost of mil- 
lions annually. That gentleman knows, or ought to know, 
that it is not in the concentrated wisdom of Farliament, 
to legislate for the Planters, unless slavery be abolished. 
We can only pluck him from ruin by extinguishing the 
system, and restoring commerce to its uncorrupted and 
legitimate foundations. 

The system has been proved to be a ruinous one, and 
how is that ruin to be avoided ? Hear the remedy, ye wise 
men of St. James's street ! Lord Goderich tells you not 
to despair, but to retrace your steps. In a despatch to the 
Earl of Belmore, dated 6th June, 1831, he says, 



AT SALFORD. 55 

6 The existence of severe commercial distress amongst all classes of society- 
connected with the West Indies is unhappily but too evident. Yet what is 
the just inference from this admitted factl Not, certainly, that the pro- 
prietary body should yield themselves to despair, and thus render the evil in- 
curable ; but that we should deliberately retrace the steps of that policy 
which has had so disastrous an issue. Without denying the concurrence 
of many causes towards the result which we all so much deplore, it is ob- 
vious that the great and permanent source of that distress, which almost every 
page of the history of the West Indies records, is to be found in the institu- 
tion of slavery. It is vain to hope for long continued prosperity in any- 
country in which the people are not dependant on their own voluntary in- 
dustry for their support; in which labor is not prompted by legitimate mo- 
tives, and does not earn its natural reward; in which the land and its culti- 
vators are habitually purchased and sold on credit; and in which the 
management of that property is almost invariably confided by an absent 
proprietary, to resident agents or to mortgagers, who are proprietors only 
in name. Without presuming to censure individuals for the share they may 
have taken in maturing this system, I cannot but regard the system itself 
as the perennial spring of those distresses of which, not at present mere- 
ly, but during the whole of the last fifty years, the complaints have been so 
frequent and so just. Regarding the present Orders as a measured and 
cautioned, but at the same time, a decided advance towards the ultimate ex- 
tinction of slavery,! must, on that account, regard it as tending to the cure 
of the pecuniary embarrassments which it is said to enhance.' 

In our friend's reply he distinctly stated, that it was not 
the wish of the planters to maintain slavery an hour beyond 
the time when the slaves were fit for freedom. If they were 
to consult economy, he said they would do it instantly. 
They acknowledge that slave labor is unprofitable. And 
now I will pin down my honorable opponent on this point. 
On the score of economy, they would manumit their 
slaves, because two thirds of them are children or aged, 
and therefore unable to work: what then becomes of 

THEIR CLAIM TO COMPENSATION? (Loutl cheers.) But 

why do they not liberate the population ? Hear it my friends 
and believe it if you can, they retain them from motives of 
the purest humanity. Compassion for the infant — sympa- 
thy and tenderness towards the aged and infirm, are the 
reasons why they defend the system. Hear it ye British 
matrons! — Ye know not the duties of the nursery. — Ye 
could not, or ye would not, train up your piccaninnies in 
the way they should go. — They would starve if they were 
free. — The negro mother would ' forget her sucking child,' 
she would ' not have compassion on the son of her womb,' 
and therefore the West India Committee feels constrained, 
from principles of heavenly charity, to care for these in- 
fant outcasts. (Tremendous applause.) Hear it ye mo- 
dern philanthropists ! Yours is a misguided benevolence. 



56 LECTURE 

Ye know not what ye do. Slavery is based upon humani- 
ty. The old would want wine. Wine did I say ? Mr. 
Borthwick told you they had wine. But I suppose this 
wine is to be found in the spacious habitation the same 
gentleman described. (A loud laugh.) A dwelling con- 
sisting of four parlors and a saloon (renewed laughter ;) 
and when instead of the destitute cabin of the slave, you 
find this delightful and commodious retreat, then, and not 
till then, will you find the negro regaling himself with wine, 
supplied him by his most amiable master. (Great cheer- 
ing.) 

My learned opponent then proceeded to a discussion on 
the sinfulness of slavery, and you recollect how hard he 
labored this part of his argument. He went to the 25th 
chapter of Leviticus, and hung his whole defence of the 
abstract principle, upon the 45th and 46th verses. 

* Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of 
them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat 
in your land; and they shall be your possession. 

And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to 
inherit them for a possesssion ; they shall be your bondmen for ever : but, 
over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over an- 
other.' 

Now he knows, or ought to know, that this slavery has 
ceased, and has not lasted for ever. He knows that the 
Jews have not slaves now. If they now retained the 
Canaanite and the Hittite in slavery, he might found 
an argument on the passage. But he who gave the 
command, at the same time knew when their dispensation 
would end ; and he provided in its stead a dispensation of 
love. (Great cheering.) But my opponent did not quote 
other parts of that law. Why did he not also quote this 
passage from the xxi. chapter and 16th verse of Exodus? 

' And he that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his 
hand, he shall surely be put to death.' 

(Great cheering followed the reading of this passage.) 
He knows, or should know, that according to his own 
argument, there ought to be no slavery but by the express 
command of God. Let him, then, quote his authority for 
our holding the negroes in slavery. (Applause.) Let 
him not ground his advocacy on the state of servitude in 
Judea. As fared the master so fared the slave. If the mas- 
ter had white bread the slave was not to have brown — if 
the master had old wine the slave had not new — if the one 



AT SALFORD. 57 

had a soft bed the other had not a hard one. In our colo- 
nies is this the case ? Is there any comparison between 
the table of the planter and the table of the slave 1 What 
has the slave? What are his yams, his plantains, his rot- 
ten herrings, his horse beans to sustain life in comfort ? 
There is evidence in this chapel that the deficiency even 
of this sort of food compels them frequently to go out to 
pilfer; and in Antigua the planters having no credit to im- 
port provisions, actually permit their slaves to go out to 
rob! In Jamaica, where provisions are abundant, the 
slaves all keep themselves and their masters besides. Yet 
you are told that if the slaves were manumitted they would 
starve ! 

Our friend here knows, too, that the Jews had a law 
which he had not ventured to quote. He knows that, if a 
Hebrew slave behaved well he had his freedom at the end 
of seven years. He knows, too, that there was the year of 
jubilee — (hear, hear,) — when the slave became free, and 
went out of the house of his master laden with liberal gifts. 
(Hear, and loud cheers.) I appeal to you as Christians — 
I appeal to him, if the trump of jubilee was ever heard in 
the West India Islands. (Great applause.) He knows 
it never was heard. Then, after quoting the Jewish law, 
he tried to bring the precepts of Christianity to his aid, 
but it will be in your recollection how he — boggled, as the 
Yorkshireman would say, at the injunction * do-do-do Unto 
all men as you would they should do unto you.' Yes, and 
he might have ' boggled ' in that way till eternity dawned, 
before he could have found a sanction for that horrid sys- 
tem in the Christian volume. How was this holy religion 
announced, ' Glory to God in the highest, and on the 
earth peace, good will to men.' (Enthusiastic cheering.) 
Oh, but, says he, St. Paul sent back Onesimus to Phile- 
mon ! (Laughter and applause.) The Saviour came to 
preach deliverance to the captive, and said, ' All things 
whatsoever you would that men should do unto you, do ye 
even so to them. Yes, but St. Paul sent Onesimus back 
to Philemon ! (Renewed laughter and cheers.) And to 
the question ' Who is my neighbor,' what was the answer 1 
Here it is from the 10th chapter of St. Luke : 
p ' But lie, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my 
neighbor! 



58 LECTURE 

And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to 
Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and 
wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. 

And by chance there came down a certain priest that way : and when he 
saw him he passed by on the other side. 

And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on 
him, and passed by on the other side. 

Buta certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: when he 
saw him he had compassion on him, 

And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and 
set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 

And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave 
them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him: and whatsoever 
thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. 

Which now of these three thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell 
among thieves 1 

And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, 
Go, and do thou likewise.' 

[Loud cheering followed every passage.] 

Yes ! resumed Mr. Thompson, this is all very beauti- 
ful : but then St. Paul sent Onesimus back to Philemon ! 
(Great laughter.) Well then about this Onesimus. In 
the first place, does the gentleman know that this Onesi- 
mus was a slave in the sense that the negroes in the West 
Indies are slaves ? Second : Did Philemon possess a pro- 
perty in his life and limbs, as the West India slave owners 
say they have in the life and limbs of the negroes? He 
should have proved this before he justified slavery, because 
St. Paul sent Onesimus back to Philemon. We find in 
the 18th chapter of Matthew, that a certain king would 
take account of his servants. Now the word doulos trans- 
lated servant there, is the same which is translated servant 
in the epistle to Philemon ; and we find there, that one un- 
faithful doulos, owed his master ten thousand talents. How 
could an abject slave owe ten thousand talents? But 
mark the conduct of his master. He orders the slave and 
his family to he sold, that he may be repayed. He sells 
his own property to pay himself? I may perhaps illus- 
trate the folly of this conduct, supposing doulos to mean 
slave, by a homely simile. A horse in a stable slips his 
halter, and eats some beans out of a sack, and the master 
says, ' Oh thou wicked and ungrateful horse ! did I not 
give thee hay enough, and yet hast thou broken loose and 
ate up this sack of beans ? Though thou art mine, and 
though thou hast cost me fifty pounds, I will punish thee 
for this. I will sell thee to-morrow, though I should lose 



AT SALFORD. 59 

by thee, that I may repay myself for the beans thou hast 
eaten.' (Great laughter.) 

Suppose this doulos — this slave according to the West 
Indian translation, runs away, and becomes a convert to 
principles that he knew not before — that he is recognised 
and sheltered, as St. Paul kept Onesimus, and that he is 
sent back with a message, ' I send you back your runa- 
way.' In such a case no doubt the slave owner would say, 
1 Ay, to be sure, let me have him ! ' But what does St. 
Paul say. Does he bid Philemon take Onesimus and treat 
him as the poor boy was treated for running away with his 
own naked body] No! Does he say 'take him and 
hang him 1 ' No ! Does he say ' flog him 1 ' No ! Does 
he say ' chain him ? ' No ! Does he say ' put a collar on 
him? ' No! He says ' receive him not as a servant, but 
as a brother.' (Long continued cheering.) He bids him 
to esteem him as more than a servant — as a brother be- 
loved. 

But the St. James street gentlemen like to quote the 7th 
chapter of Corinthians. It is a favorite passage with them, 
and I wonder why our friend missed it the other evening. 
It is said, [ Let every man abide in the same calling where- 
in he was called.' Now were I talking to the slave, I 
would say, be patient, submit to the wrong, care not for 
the chains, but wait. Stand still, and see the salvation of 
God, and I will go to England and represent your case 
there, and endeavor to affect such an alteration of the law 
as may procure your redress. But will any man libel the 
character of St. Paul, by saying that when he uses such 
language to the slave he exhonorates the master 1 No: 
he says, ' art thou called being a servant ? care not for it.' 
This implies a wrong, but does not justify it. So and so has 
wronged me, says one. Well care not for it, advises 
another. Bear in mind that there is no slavery with God. 
But if you must be free it must be in a higher state, and 
use your servitude rather to subserve this greater end. Ye 
are bought with a price, and in this sense ye cannot be 
the doulos — the slave of any man. (Cheers.) 

I now come to a very important part of the gentleman's 
lecture. He said, that as the representative of the West 
India proprietors, he would say that he would give free- 
dom to the slaves as soon as they are in the condition that 



60 LECTURE 

Onesimus was. Then I claim it for the Methodist 
converts. (Applause.) In the name of those who wor- 
ship in this place — In the name of God — I claim it for the 
Methodist converts in the West Indies — in the name of 
the venerable George Marsden (who was present^ I claim 
it for them. There are many Onesimuses there. Many 
whose names, though they are recorded on the parchments 
of men as their property, are written in the book of life. 
I have them, says their God and our God, and their 
names are written ' on the palms of my hands.' I claim 
it for the Baptist converts. (Cheers.) I claim it for Mr. 
Knibb's communicants. I claim it for Svviney, whose 
back was scourged for praying for the safety of his 
master. (Great cheering.) I claim it for the Mora- 
vian converts — I claim it for the Church converts — 
I claim it for all who love the Lord Jesus Christ. (En- 
thusiastic cheering.) Are they free ? Perhaps our friend 
will reply to that. But I came not here to enter into dis- 
quisitions of abstract rights, but to put an end to real in- 
justice — real infamy. I came not here to discuss abstract 
metaphysical questions r but to endeavor to put an end to 
the debasement of the sufferers, and of those who are par- 
ties to its continuance. 

Then he gave us a very beautiful quotation from Ju- 
venal ; to show you that slavery should exist now, he shows 
you the cruelties practised many years ago ; that ancient 
cruelty should justify modern crime. Behold this tree ; 
it never has brought forth good fruit. Make ancient sla- 
very a thousand times worse if you will, there is no secu- 
rity in modern slavery ; and though one only maybe slain 
to-day, 400 may be slain in one establishment to-morrow. 
And this quotation is made in a Christian country. If this 
be done in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry ? 
Shame to the St. James's street conclave, that they can- 
not find better arguments; but they shall see presently, 
that slavery in 1832 is a hundred times worse than it was 
in the days of the Romans. One of my opponents, who, 
judging from appearances, was apparently pot-valiant, said 
I suppose Mr. Thompson has never been in the Colonies. 
What is his inference from that? Why, that my evidence 
ought not to be received ; but I never gave him any evi- 
dence of my own. I believe his friend has never been in 
the Colonies, if so, the same reasoning will apply to him. 



AT SALFORD, 61 

It was wrong in him thus to attack his friend by a side 
wind. It has been very justly said, * Heaven protect me 
from my friends. I can take care of my enemies myself.' 
Send me no Mr. Franklin to help me. But to return. 
The gentleman was dishonest as an argumentative speak- 
er. He alluded merely to horrors said to have been com- 
mitted and not fit to be told in that assembly, but he never 
gave us one proof of their truth. I will give you proofs, 
however, from the St. James's Chronicle, and from the 
31oming Post. These proofs are contained in a letter 
dated Feb., 1832, without name, and the part of Jamaica 
from whence it came not alluded to at all, addressed to a 
physician in Glasgow, who is not named, and written by 
a person, who had been six weeks on the island during all 
which time martial law had existed against the negroes. 
He stated that 14 women were found amongst a party of 
negroes in the woods by a body of soldiers sent in pursuit 
of them, and two of them were in a most horrible state with 
their thighs broken. Can such things be believed ? The 
writer of this letter, who, bear in mind, has been six weeks 
on the island, goes on to state the difference in the con- 
dition of the slaves in that country and the laboring popu- 
lation in this. The slaves there, he says, have horses of 
the best quality to ride upon, not donkeys, nor mules, but 
horses of the best description. They dress superbly, says 
he, not neatly, not comfortably, but superbly. They have 
also, says he, domestic animals of every description. When 
Mr. Franklin got up, as if from amidst the thunder of his 
friend's eloquence, a flash of lightening had come forth 
and annihilated his memory, and cried out 'the man who 
says that the negro is in a degraded, demoralized and de- 
based state, utters a premeditated falsehood.' He had for- 
gotten what his friend had said on the subject. (Hear, 
hear, hear.) If this was the truth, he had better have 
kept it in ; he might have spared his friend ; he might have 
refrained from giving him the lie direct in a public meet- 
ing. To illustrate the credit due to them, who would 
grant abolition, but not now, I will read an extract from 
the Jamaica Courant, a paper edited by a member of the 
assembly, a paper avowedly the organ of the planters. 
The Courant says, in relation to the Baptist Missions, he 
hoped they would have justice done them ; and what was 
6 



D^ LECTURE 

this justice ? ' We hope they will be hanged in the woods 
of Trelawney ! ' 

* Our primary ardor has been unabated. We have never allowed these 
deluded wretches time to rest; night and day have we been at them, and 
have made terrible slaughter among them. And now. at the end of a six 
weeks's campaign, we are neglected — not thought of, because the Govern- 
or must have a little fun with Tom Hill and his yacht. The few wretches 
that are now out, are hiding in the cane-pieces, and we occasionally get 
a bullet or two at them. On Sunday morning five were shot, who were 
fallen in with and attempted to escape.' 

Miserable wretches, shot at for attempting to escape 
from Christian men on a Sabbath morning ! 

c I shall not consider that we are safe, although all this havoc has been 
made among the rebels; although they may have now found the inutility 
of opposing the strong force which can be opposed to them, until we can 
fall on some plan of getting rid of the infernal race of Baptists, which we 
have so long fostered in our bosoms, and demolishing their bloody pande- 
moniums.' 

This is Jamaica attachment to the cause of freedom ! 

' I cannot allow the post to start, without saying that I have remained 
long enough at Falmouth to see the Baptist and Methodist Chapels pulled 
down. This good work was accomplished this day, by the troops after 
their return — conquerors from the seat of war. Lots of groans as you may 
imagine, from the Saints and their followers. It is impossible for me to 
give you a description of the appearance of our brave Militiamen on their 
arrival in this town. The poor fellows cut a miserable appearance : you 
could not actually tell whether they were black, white, yellow, or any other 
color.' 

Let Bruce know that the great and glorious work has commenced. It is 
now ten o'clock, and all bauds at work, demolishing the Baptist and Wes- 
leyan Chapels. The Methodist Chapel is down, and the men are hard at 
work at the Baptist's. The roof of the latter is not yet off, but so much 
injured, as to make it as well off as on. It is standing, true, but supported 
by a few posts only. The men have gone for fire hooks to complete the 
work they have undertaken. There is the devil to pay here to day (as you 
may suppose) among the Saints and their followers. — Weeping and wailing, 
and gnashing of teeth — wringing of hands, and groans, interrupted at times, 
with curses and imprecations on the soldiers.' 

Here are the victorious troops of Jamaica. You have 
heard of the Duke of Wellington and his armies amidst 
the pealing of organs, kneel down and return thanks to 
God that the arms of our country have been victorious. 
Here are the Jamaica troops. Do they behave thus? Do 
they thus enter the hallowed place? With hands reeking 
with the blood of their fellow-creatures, they instantly set 
on and pull down the houses of God. (Shocking.) 

'I trust there will be no occasion for apology in a stranger addressing 
you, as no doubt you will feel the same pleasure in purusing this as I did in 
witnessing the act which forms the subject of my communication.' 

We have heard from those gentlemen the danger of 
emancipation. If the negroes had learned to pull down 



AT SALFORD. 63 

churches, they would have been fit for freedom — if they 
could come with their hands reeking in human blood, and 
tar and feather a holy man, they are fit for freedom, — but 
no, not yet, they are not fit for freedom ; they are not yet 
sufficiently assimilated with these blood-thirsty beings. 

' I write in the hope of this reaching you through the way-bag, as the 
post office has long since been shut. Some true-hearted Jamaicans have 
truly ennobled themselves this night, by razing to the earth that pestilential 
hole, Knibb's preaching shop. Verily, friend, they have not spared Box's 
also. He no more will be able to beat the roll-call to prayers, nor the ta- 
too upon the consciences of the subscribers of macs — our poor deluded 
slaves. In plain English, not one stone has been left standing — nay, not 
even the corner one ; and I hope that this goodly example will be followed 
from Negri] to Morant.' 

Here is a blasphemous allusion to the chief corner stone, 
— that, which, if it shall fall upon a man shall crush him 
to powder ; but I forbear. I could go on with a number 
of these extracts from the Courant. — I have numbers of 
them, but I will read only one. 

'Between seven and nine o'clock on Saturday evening, the 7th (April, 
1832,) as the Rev. Mr. Bleby, a Wesleyan minister, and his lady, were 
sitting to tea at their hired residence in Falmouth, a band of white and 
one or two colored ruffians rushed into the house and seized him, using ex- 
tremely violent and abusive language, calling him a d — d preaching villain, 
&c. &c; they then forced Mr. B. to the opposite side of the room, four 
or five holding him whilst one struck him violently on the head — they were 
all armed with bludgeons. One of the ruffians brought a keg of tar into 
the room, and, whilst some held him, others spread the tar with their 
hands over his head, face, breast, and clothes. Whilst this brutal assault 
was going on, the fellow named Dobson, who struck Mr. Bleby, attempted 
to set Mr. B's pantaloons on fire, but was prevented by one of the gang. 
He immediately after applied the candle to the tar on B's breast, but Mrs. 
Bleby seeing it dashed the candle from his hand, and it went out. In at- 
tempting to interpose between the ruffians and Mr. B., Mrs. Bleby was 
seized by one of them and dashed violently on the floor, the effect of which, 
our informant affirms, she still severely feels. Two of the gang attempted 
to lock her in the pantry, but she managed to elude their intention. By 
this time the alarm having been given, some people came to Mr. and Mrs. 
Bleby's assistance, and commenced an attack upon the villains who were 
below stairs; this so alarmed those (hat were employed above, that they 
left Mr. Bleby and hastend to the assistance of their fellows, and eventu- 
ally made their escape, but not until two or three had received the drub- 
bing which they richly deserved — one so much so as to endanger his life. 
About this time Mrs. Bleby with her child escaped, through the crowd, 
without her bonnet and one shoe, the villains having first bedaubed her and 
her child (about five months old) with tar ! ! Mr. B.,who was guarded 
by a party of colored and black young men, took shelter in a neighboring 
house. Mr. Miller, with a party of the 22d regiment, soon after arrived 
on the spot, to whom Mr. B. stated what had occurred, and claimed pro- 
tection at their hands. Mr. B. was taken to the barracks for the night, 
and Mrs. B. was kindly sheltered by t Mrs. Jackson, the lady'of the Clerk of 
the Peace, who offeree! her all requisite assistance. On Sunday the attack 



64 LECTURE 

was to have been renewed, but it did not take place. As a specimen of 
Falmouth justice, the young men who went to Mr. Blehy's assistance were 
disarmed, by authority, and are to-day to be tried by a court martial for 
the crime of protecting a Missionary, his wife, and harmless infant ! ! ! ' 

Bat I need not dwell longer upon these facts. Again 
the Courant states. 

< There is no longer a hive for the drones ; the bees have beat them 
away, and destroyed their hives ; no longer have they a shelter to collect 
maccaronies in, and away they must go. " With what pleasure did I wit- 
ness the conduct of the brave and intrepid men of the St. Ann's Regiment, 
while performing that which ought to have been done by the Trelawney 
Regiment — demolishing the Baptist and Methodist Chapels. This work 
commenced at eight o'clock, and is still going on ; by morning there will not 
be a stone left standing. I trust the example thus set in Trelawney, will 
be followed throughout the island: with this difference, that the inhabitants 
of every parish will do their own duty, and not require others to perform it. 
It was "highly amusing to see the "Cobblers" flocks in the streets, groan- 
ing and wondering where their preachers would now get money to build 
other Chapels. 

Is it to come to this, that when the danger is supposed to be over, that 
the preachers of all denominations, who found it prudent to quit the coun- 
try, should assemble in Kingston, and pretend to be instructors of each oth- 
er, and point out how they are in future to conduct themselves! Their 
treason to the country has been discovered, and by a show of about thirty 
vagabond preachers, who dare not show their noses out of Kingston, they 
are endeavoring to excite a sympathy for their sufferings ! The time has 
past, and their conduct is now understood, and none but those who encour- 
age rebellion would, for one moment, countenance the conduct they are pur- 
suing. If they really are the servants of the Lord Jesus, what have they 
to be afraid of? Their master performed many miracles, but alas ! he was 
crucified — a consummation which we devoutly pray his pretended servant* 
may experience ; and as we intend shortly to publish an almanac, we shall 
be happy to canonize these gentry, by placing their names as Saints, in 
black letter. Now for the oration.^ The Rev. bawler addressed his thir- 
teen culprits, and asked them if their mission was not one of peace 1 ? The 
poor d — Is, of course, nodded assent. He then remarked, with a degree of 
energy which we are sorry was not exerted in a good cause — Are you not 
ambassadors from Godl Another nod ! Then said the preacher, perse- 
vere—here he made a pause of a few seconds, and then told the criminals 
again to persevere in maintaining peace and good order! ! ! ! These men 
are very kind, and no doubt preach peace on earth, and good will towards 
all men ! The dear babes, how we love them ! Merely because we know 
they love us!! We are, however, not bigots, either in politics or religion, 
and if they could point out the same number of good men among them as 
would have saved Sodom and Gomorrah, we would like Lot " beg for 
them," but as we know that such a number could not be found, we hope 
they may be ordered to "march" at a moment's warning, without sus- 
taining a loss equal to that which poor Lot experienced.' 

' He that has ears to hear, let him HEAR ; 3 and if Mr. 
Borthwick replies to this, I shall have a minute of it; if 
he does not, it is because he cannot. (Cheers.) 

'Since our last, we have received accounts of the destruction of every 
one of those pandemoniums of insurrection and rebellion, the Baptist 
preaching shops, from Savanna-la-Mar to Brown's Town, in St. Ann's. 



AT SALFORD. 65 

They have been destroyed partly by the Militia and partly by some of their 
own followers, who have had their eyes opened by recent events, which 
have taught them that the Baptist Parsons were not the Sovereigns of Ja- 
maica. Several of the Wesleyan Chapels have also been either totally or 
partially destroyed; a fit but trifling retribution for the loss these men have 
caused to the proprietors of those estates that have been burnt by the incen- 
diaries, who were instigated to commit the crimes, for which so many of 
them have suffered by these preachers. We can only say in the words of 
the Reformer, John Knox — ' To get rid of the Rooks effectually you must 
destroy their nests.' As to the rooks — the preachers — we would recom- 
mend the advice of our staunch friend James M'Queen, to be observed to- 
wards them : — ' Tar and feather them wherever you meet them, and drive 
them off the island, excepting always those who may merit a greater eleva- 
tion — a more exalted distinction. 

I have only one more extract to give you. It is a des- 
patch from Colonel Grignon to Sir Willoughby Cotton, da- 
ted Montego Bay, January 2d, 1832. Colonel Grignon 
was one of the foremost of them who at a meeting in July 
1831, called on the planters to resist the orders in council, 
even to blood. He is the manager of Salt Spring estate 
for a gentleman in London. The extract runs thus : — 

' On ths 29th, I received information that a large body of negroes were 
assembled at Chester Castle, and I proceeded with a detachment of the 
regiment to that place, having first given directions to the officers command- 
ing the Westmoreland, to meet me there with one company. The negroes 
had, however, fled, and I saw nothing of the Westmoreland detachment. 
On my return to quarters, I observed the negroes at Montpelier new works 9 
assembled in a large body, setting fire to the trash houses. 5 

Setting fire to trash houses. This was the head and 
front of their offending. Does the gallant Colonel exhort 
them to disperse ? No. Does he threaten them 1 No. 
Does he fire blank catridges over their heads? No. You 
shall see what he does. 

* / immediately ordered the detachment, who were all mounted, to 
dash into the mill yard, and the rebels were all dispersed. In this attack 
I understand, from information received, that there were iiuo of them 
killed and one wounded. Upon this occasion T have to notice that En- 
sign Reanie, with a small advanced detachment was extremely active, and 
throughout ihe whole duty which the regiment had to perform I was ably 
supported by this officer.' 

What a piece of courteousness this, to compliment the 
gallant officer, for his activity in driving away a few un- 
armed negroes, who might have been dispersed by a con- 
stable's staff! But it is upon the old principle of ' You 
tickle me and I'll tickle you.' (Great laughter.) 

' Upon my arrival at quarters I found the company of the St. James's 
regiment had arrived, under the command of Captain Ewart, at about five 
o'clock. At about seven the rebels advanced upon us in four 
columns.' 

What! were these rebel negroes so soon martialized as 
0* 



Q6 LECTURE 

to march down upon them in four columns? Men who 
knew no more of military evolutions than a pig knows of a 
fortnight! Coming down upon them, tramp, tramp, 
tramp, in four columns! (Laughter.) This is what I call 
making up a story, and if you wish to see a specimen of 
the art of making up a story, read the Manchester Courier 
of Saturday last. (Cheers.) If there be any spark of 
honor, truth, or honesty in the gentlemen who are opposed 
to me, they will give the lie to that Courier. (Tremendous 
cheers.) Who gained a hearing for that opposition on 
Monday? I did. (Cheers.) Who gained them a hear- 
ing again on Tuesday ? I did, or they never would have 
been heard. (Great cheering.) And yet, what does this 
veracious journal say ? It says, ' Mr. Borthwick was again 
interrupted in his argument by an uproar, compared to 
which the scenes we have frequently witnessed on Peter- 
loo amongst an assembly of radicals of the lowest grade 
were perfectly calm and decorous.' I say if the gentle- 
men have any spark of truth about them, they will give the 
lie to that Courier (Cheers, while a person in the gallery 
shouted out, ' Let us groan,' and several groans were 
heard.) But enough of that, let us return to the Colonel. 

r* They came down upon us in four columns.' 

I am afraid my friends you are thinking I am alluding 
to four columns of the newspaper. (Laughter.) 

'They came down upon us in four columns. The first body moved upo;i 
the trash houses.' 

Their greatest hostility seems to have been against these 
trash houses. 

" The first body moved upon the trash houses, to cne of which they set 
fire, and became engaged with Captain Ewait's company, and picquet 
guard of the Western interior, under Ensign Gibbs. The officers and 
men behaved in the most gallant manner, and shortly dispersed the 
enemy. This division from the statement of Captain Ewart, consisted of 
40 men. The three other divisions, attacked the main body of the West 
India regiment, who had been formed into a solid square, and kept up a 
considerable firing of musketry upon them.' 

Does he remonstrate with these men ? Does he advise 
them to disperse ? Does he entreat them ? No ; he or- 
ders his men to fire upon them. They kept up a very 
rapid fire. This is West India slavery. (Murder.) 

6 The regiment reserved the fire until the rebels had advanced with- 
in thirty or forty yards, when they commenced a very rapid fire, tvhich 
continued for about 20 minutes, when the enemy dispersed in all di- 
rections. The body of the enemy who attacked by the main road, could 
not have consisted of less than hco hundred men. The number in the 



AT SALFORD. 



67 



other division I could not judge of, as they were covered by a stone wall 
fence, and the Hill house, but both divisions appeared to have many fire arms. 
When all behaved with so much gallantry, it would be invidious to 
name any individual; at the same time, 1 cannot omit mentioning Mr. 
Rhodes Evans (a gentleman residing in the West Interior district, 
and uho had volunteered his services,) and 1 am under great obliga- 
tion for his able assistance. I must also state that I am much indebted 
to Captain Balme for his suggestions to me during and after the engagement. 
I regret to add that in this encounter we had one man killed, and forty 
tooundedj and Major Kings and Sergeant Sewells — ' 

Had their throats cut ? No. Their brains blown out? 
No. Mortally wounded ? No. They had their hats 
shot through. (Tremendous cheers, with laughter.) 

This is the first time I ever heard of such a gazette as 
this. It is a complete proof that they had nothing impor- 
tant to write about. Where are these hats! would that 
we had them here. They ought to be sent down to pos- 
terity along with the memorials of Blenheim, Nile, and 
Waterloo. (Cheers.) They ought to be hung up in 
Westminster Abbey along with the trophies of their great 
victories, and the name of Colonel Grignon go down to 
glory with the illustrious names of Malborough, Howe, and 
YVellington. (Tremendous cheering.) 

'Their hats shot through, but they received no injury. I could not learn 
the exact number of the killed and wounded, but 1 understood afterwards, 
that they admitted they had lost ten men killed, and twety-five wound- 
ed. The company of St. James's regiment, together with the West India, 
lay under arms the remainder of the night.' 

So much for the nature and the operations of a West 
India campaign ! 

Special objection was taken and special indignation ex- 
pressed at my assertion, ' that a slave could not call his 
life his own, his liberty his own, his wife, or his children 
his own.' This was met only by a bare denial, and 
an attempt to prove that the slaves have liberty of con- 
science. Now, although I never said any thing about lib- 
erty of conscience, I am quite willing it should become a 
topic of discussion, because upon no one point will my 
opponent find himself more at a loss for facts than upon this. 
Have they liberty of conscience, I ask, when their chap- 
els are puiled down? Has that man liberty of conscience, 
who, because he only says, ' Lord Jesus, save my mas- 
ter ! ' is thrown down and flogged, and then loaded with 
an iron collar, fettered to a felon, and forced to work on 
the highways? Is that liberty of conscience? A long 
letter, written by the Rev. George Bligh was then read by 



LECTURE 



Mr. Borthwick ; but the testimony of that gentleman was 
set against a thousand proofs that no liberty of conscience 
was enjoyed in the West Indies. On the subject of liber- 
ty of life and limbs, I will quote from a work entitled 
' West Indies as they are ; ' written by the Rev. R. Bick- 
eli, a clergyman of the established church, a member of 
Cambridge — a most singular coincidence this, as the gen- 
tleman recently in London, in the course of a debate de- 
scribed himself as having been schooled at Cambridge, to 
whom the testimony, therefore, of a hrother Cantab must 
be peculiarly grateful — late naval chaplain at Port-Royal; 
sometime curate of that Parish, and previously of the city 
of Kingston. 

' The distress and terror among a gang of negroes, when the marshall's 
deputy, with 'his degs, and ether assistants, ccmes to levy in alarge way, 
cannot be conceived by those who, happily for themselves, have never been 
spectators of such scenes, and can scarcely be described by those who have 
witnessed them. I was once on a coffee mountain (staying for a few days with 
a brother clergyman, "who had permission to reside there) on which were 
about seventy or eighty negroes, the proprietor was much in debt, and was 
aware that one or two of his largest creditors had for seme time wished to 
make a levy on his slaves to pay themselves ; but by keeping his gates locked, 
and the fences round the dwelling house and negro-houses in good repair, he 
had hitherto baffled the Argus-eyed deputy and his deputies. The night 
after I arrived on the property, however, I was awaked, about an hour before 
daylight, by a great noise, as of arms, with cries of women and children ; 1 at 
first scarce "knew what it was, but in a few minutes a private servant, who did 
not belong to the property (and who was in the yard, beyond the reach of the 
seizors) came to my window and informed me that it was the marshall's de- 
puties making a levy on the negroes, and that the noit-e proceeded from the 
clashing of weapons; for some of the slaves, he said, had stoutly resisted. 
I then alarmed my friend, being nearer to the scene of action than he was, 
and we determined to go out to tee that no improper use was made of the 
tremendous power given to these Cereberuscs. By the time we arrived at 
the negro-houses the resistance had ceased; for the negroes being divided, 
had been overcome by the myrmidons of the law, they being eight or ten in 
number. One poor fellow, however, was being dragged along like a thief by 
a fierce and horrid looking Irishman, who had been one of M'Gregors free- 
booters, and who, when we came near, grasped his victim more tightly, and 
brandished his broadsword over the poor creature with the grin and growl 
of a demon, as much as to say, you dog, I will annihilate you and them too, 
if they attempt to interfere; though, of course, we had not the least inten- 
tion of interfering; we were only quiet spectators.' 

So much for liberty of life and limb. Take a specimen, 
in that state of happy freedom, of food, raiment, &c. 

' Children also in many instances are allowed to go quite naked, and I have 
seen boys and girls, seven or eight years of age, in a state of nature, running 
about some houses, who for the sake of common decency ought to be clothed ; 
and it is very common to see black boys and girls, twelve or thirteen years of 
age, almost men and women, in nothing but a shift or shirt, waiting at table; 
so little are the decencies of life observed towards them, 



AT SALFORD. 69 

What can be more absurd than to hear it constantly reiterated, that the 
negroes in our colonies are better fed and better clothed than the British 
peasantry 1 

None but a bigoted and low-minded planter, or some interested profes- 
sional resident, who cannot return to reside in this country, would compare 
the coarse yams, and cocoas, and the stringy indigestible plantains, with a 
few bad or rotten herrings, to the wholesome bread of this country, and to 
potatoes and other fine vegetables, with a small portion of fresh meat or 
bacon, which the English cottager enjoys. I have seen a good deal of the 
state of the English poor, having served curacies in Somersetshire, Glou- 
cestershire, Monmouthshire, and Wiltshire, besides having an intimate ac- 
quaintance with Devonshire; and I can conscientiously say, that I never 
saw any one, even a pauper, who lived in the mean, hoggish way that the 
slaves in the West Indies do. 

I can assert with much truth, that the coarsest Irish potatoes, with a little 
milk and salt, are preferable to the negro yams and green plantains, at least, 
I would sooner have them; and I think most of the British poor would ap- 
prove of my taste, had they an opportunity of judging. 

The English poor are also much better clothed; for where is there a poor 
cottager that has not a decent cloth of fustian coat, of any color he pleases, 
with other parts of his dress suitable, independent of good and warm stock- 
ings, and sound shoes to keep his feet from ihe gravel and dirt'? But what 
has the slave 1 He has for his best (from his master, as I before observed,) 
a large baize surtout, which hangs about him like a sack, and would as well 
fit any person you please as himself; and, moreover, a pair of coarse trowsers 
and coarse shirt of Oznaburgh, which, with the coarsest kind of hat is his 
whole wardrobe; for this is the general livery or badge of slavery. The 
female slaves are clothed as much inferior to our poor women, andboth ne- 
gro men and women are without stockings and shoes, and generally go in a 
half-dressed state, viz: without coats or gowns; the womens' petticoats up 
to their knees; and very often before fresh supplies are given out, many of 
them are in a ragged state, and some almost in a state of nudity ; and yet it is 
said, they are better off' than the poor in Great Britain ! ' 

What does my opponent now say to the blessings of Sla- 
very — what becomes of his four parlors and saloon now 
— his wine for the old and infirm — and his thousand com- 
forts, about which the English peasant knows nothing ! 

He next artfully appealed to the money-getting propen- 
sities of the people of England, and said the emancipation 
of the slave might lead to a diminution in the manufac- 
tures of this country, and stop the sale of British calicoes. 
In proof he instances the island of Hayti. I will now 
quote an article extracted from the Parliamentary paper, 
No. 178:— 

Hayti. — ' In a bulky Parliamentary document of last Session, numbered 
578, entitled, " Papers relating to the American Tariff*," we have discovered 
the following facts respecting the trade of Hayti with the United States. 
The exports from the United States to Hayti appear to consist of fish, oil, 
naval stores, cheese, flour, lumber, carriages, hats, saddlery, beer, shoes, 
iron, copper and brass ware, gun-powder, &c. ; and the paper to which we 
refer, (p. 178,) states, that in the last year, (1826,) " The export trade with 
Hayti, despised Hayti, in domestic products, amounted to 1,251,910 dollars, 



70 LECTURE 

equal to the whole of our exports to Russia, Prussia, Sweden and Norway, 
Denmark, Spain and Portugal." And yet thisisbuta portion of that Hay- 
tian trade, which Mr. Mackenzie has labored so assidiously to deprecate.' 

Be not deceived — abolition would greatly increase our 
exports — the slaves are already fond of finery, and if re- 
munerated for their labor would not be satisfied with the 
9s. 6d. suit now supplied them by their owners ; but would 
require from England such supplies of our manufactures, 
as would vastly benefit the country generally and those dis- 
tricts in particular, in which such manufactures are con- 
ducted. But admitting the truth of what the gentleman 
asserts, I would ask, What 1 is it come to this, that we are 
to continue the foul abomination, from a fear that we 
should spin less yarn, or weave less calico 1 No, the 
people of England are not such worshippers of mammon. 
If you witness an attempt to palliate slavery, by an appeal 
to the pocket, repudiate it, despise it; would you with- 
hold liberty from the captive, that you might make a little 
more money by keeping him in bonds 1 Will you, who 
have just obtained the elective franchise, determine the 
question of liberty to others by a reference to the amount 
of your exports 1 The exports of Hayti were alluded to, 
but I would ask, if the poor Irish had all they want at 
home, would they send so much abroad I I refer confi- 
dently to the history of St. Domingo, and they who know 
that history will concur with me, that it affords an irre- 
fragable proof of the safety of abolition. Not a stronger 
proof of the blessings of emancipation could be given, 
than that the population has doubled in twenty years. 
(Cheers.) In the West India islands there has been an ab- 
solute decrease of 50,000 in the population in ten years 
and a half. St. Domingo never rebelled until an attempt 
was made to bring its inhabitants back into bondage. The 
island is not blessed as our islands are with religion. No; 
they are better off without religion than our islands are 
with it. There are no religious slave owners there to 
drive Christianity into their backs with whips twelve feet 
long. If I am challenged to the proof, it shall be forth- 
coming. 

Mr. Borthwick alluded to Sierra Leone, and said that 
every experiment there had utterly failed — that nothing but 
slothfulness, vice, and immorality prevailed; he broadly 



AT SALFORD. 71 

asserted that the best conditioned of the free negroes 
there were worse off than the most abject slave in the 
West Indies, and that the happiest free man there was 
more miserable than the most wretched slave in Jamaica. 
I tell him it is a falsehood, — and he knows it. (Tremen- 
dous cheers.) He knows it to be a base, fabricated false- 
hood. I know not whether it was sent to him from St. 
James's ; but if his employers so informed him, let him 
tell them that they have been furnishing him with lies. 
What, I now ask, constitutes a man's happiness ? Is it 
herrings, yams, plantains, horse-beans, or a horse-whip? 
No ! If he dares to reiterate his assertion respecting Sierra 
Leone, he shall have the whole history of that colony. 
(Hear, hear.) He says that the slaves should have relig- 
ious instruction, — and that is an argument also which 
is continually in the mouth of the Marquis of Chandos ; 
but let him tell me if there is one single instructor of 
Christianity on the Marquis of Chandos's estates in the 
West Indies? 

I implore you to look at the other side of the question — 
the danger of delaying emancipation. Can the West In- 
dia islands be in a worse condition than now prevails? 
Colored men are butchered, without the semblance of a 
trial — the frame-work of society is dissolving, and chaos 
is coming again. If we do not grant emancipation, they 
will liberate themselves. I shall conclude my reply with 
the remarks of a great man now deceased. He says, 

6 Shame ! that any should have been found to speak lightly of liberty, 
whose worth is so testified — whose benefits are so numerous and so rich. 
Moralists" have praised it — poets have sung it — the Gospel has taught and 
breathed it — patriots and martyrs have died for it. As a temporal blessing, 
it is beyond all comparison and above all praise. It is the air we breathe — 
the food we eat — the raiment that clothes us — the sun that enlightens, and 
vivifies, and gladdens, all on whom it shines. Without it, what are honors 
and riches, and all similar endowments'? They are the trappings of a hearse 
— they are the garnishings of a sepulchre; and with it the crust of bread, 
and the cup of water, and the lowly hovel, and the barren rock, are luxuries 
which it teaches and enables us to rejoice in. He who knows what liberty 
is, and can be glad and happy when placed under a tyrant's rule, and at the 
disposal of a tyrant's caprice, is like the man who can laugh and be in 
merry mood at the grave, where he has just deposited all that should have been 
loveliest in his eye, and all thatshould have been dearest to his heart. What 
is slavery, and what does it do! It darkens and degrades the intellect — it 
paralyses the hand of industry — it is the nourisher of agonizing fears and 
of sullen revenge — it crushes the spirit of the bold — it belies the doctrines, it 
contradicts the precepts, it resists the power, it sets at defiance the sanctions 
of religion — it is the tempter, and the murderer, and the tomb of virtue— and 



72 LECTURE 

either blasts the felicity of those over whom it domineers, or forces them to 
seek for relief from their sorrows in the gratifications, and the mirth, and 
the madness of the passing hour.' 

This extract is from the pen of the late Dr. Andrew 
Thompson, of Edinburgh. 

Having now occupied your attention for three hours and 
twenty minutes, I beg once more, for the fifth time, most 
cordially to express to you my thanks for the attention 
which you have afforded to me. I have explained the na- 
ture of the emancipation we seek ; and the safety and 
justice of emancipation ; the advantage of a system of free, 
in preference to one of compulsory labor. 

All that I ask is liberty for the captive ; a release from 
arbitrary and irresponsible control — and that he should 
henceforth be governed by equal laws — administered by 
judicial and responsible officers. 

Let it no longer be objected, that we are surrounded by 
miserable and starving beings at home, and therefore 
ought to confine our attention within the circle of our 
own neighborhood. Let ours be a more enlarged philan- 
thropy, which, while it forgets not the object which is near, 
goes out after the wretched children of oppression, now 
groaning for help in the Colonies. Far be it from me to 
be an unmoved spectator of the ills of those immediately 
around me ; but while I gaze upon the most abject of the 
inhabitants of this island, I cannot help remembering that 
here the cup of misery goes round, and he who drinks it 
to-day, passes it to another to-morrow. The starving and 
the houseless of to-day are not the starving and houseless 
of to-morrow. Here hope animates all — the wheel of for- 
tune is ever revolving — the scene is ever shifting, and the 
eye that weeps to-day, may sparkle with joy to-morrow. I 
only ask that this may be the condition of the slave — that 
he may exchange a state of abject slavery, in which his 
labor is exacted by the whip, for a state of naked freedom, 
in which, under the influence of the ordinary motives 
which stimulate men, he may become a cheerful and in- 
dustrious peasant; a skilful artizan ; or, an enterprising 
merchant. And shall I ask in vain 1 Shall I this night, 
appearing as I do, the advocate of 800,000 human beings 
to whom we owe a migty debt, crave in vain the bless- 
ing of homeless — penny less FREEDOM. It is impossi- 



AT SALFORD. 73 

ble ! the appeal to men to Englishmen, and to Christ- 
ians, cannot be ineffectual. 

I have done. Once more let me thank you for this 
lengthened attention, and assure you, that I shall be ready 
to hear what more my opponent can say in defence of 
slavery, and should he fail to convince me, you may con- 
sider me pledged to give a second refutation, and to do 
again what I trust I have done to night — scatter to the 
winds of heaven the sophistries by which it is sought to up- 
hold a system which insults the God of heaven, and de- 
grades His image upon earth. 



(74 ) 



Mr. THOMPSON'S LECTURE. 

Report of the Proceedings at the meetings of Messrs. Thomp* 
son and Borthwick held at the Royal Amphitheatre* 
Liverpool, on the Evenings of August 28, 29, 30, 31 
and September 6, 1832. — From a Supplement of t/u 
Liverpool Times. 

It was announced last week, that Mr. George Thomp* 
son, one of the advocates of the Anti-Slavery Societies, 
who' has been lecturing in London, Manchester, and sev- 
eral other places, on the evils of slavery, would deliver s 
lecture on the same subject, at the Royal Amphitheatre r 
in this town, a place admirably suited, by its extent and 
accommodations, for the thousands who might naturally be 
expected to assemble together on a question of such vital 
interest and importance. We seldom remember to have 
seen so much interest excited on any subject, as has been 
exhibited by our townsmen within the last few days. As 
it was deemed desirable that both sides of the question 
should be laid before the public, after some negotiation 
between the West India body and the committee of the 
Anti-Slavery Society, it was arranged that Mr. Thompson 
should lecture on Tuesday evening ; that Mr. Borthwick 
should speak on Wednesday, on the opposite side ; that 
Mr. Thompson should be heard in reply on Thursday, — 
and that the admission on all the three nights should be by 
tickets, equally distributed by both parties, in order to se- 
cure a select assemblage, and prevent, as far as possible, 
the recurrence of those scenes of clamor and tumult 
which have taken place elsewhere. Upwards of 8,000 
tickets were so distributed, and even then, almost up to 
the time of the meeting the greatest anxiety was exhibited 
to procure them, and hundreds of persons who applied 
were obliged to go away disappointed. At half past si?: 



LECTURE. 75 

on Tuesday night, the hour fixed for the commencement 
of the proceeding, the Amphitheatre was crowded in every 
part, from the pit to the gallery, with a numerous and 
most respectable assemblage, the speaker, and several gen- 
tlemen of both committees, taking their station on the 
stage, where ample accommodations was provided for them, 
and for the gentlemen connected with the press. 

With these few introductory remarks, we shall proceed 
to our summary report of the discussion. 

Mr. Adam Hodgson, in taking the chair, said he felt 
himself called to a situation of great delicacy and difficul- 
ty, being, on the one hand, a member of the Liverpool 
Anti-Slavery Society, and on the other, and in some de- 
gree, the representative of the West Indian body, — bound 
to secure a fair and impartial hearing for both parties, 
without any reference to his own individual feelings and sen- 
timents, which had been long before the public, and which 
nothing could induce him to abandon. He should endeav- 
or to perform the duties of his station with firmness and 
impartiality, trusting to the support of the meeting ; and he 
hoped that both parties would behave with the utmost or- 
der and decorum, abstaining from all manifestations of ap- 
plause and disapprobation, and remembering that no cause 
whatever could be served by clamor, but might be materi- 
ally injured by it. (Hear, hear.) After some further ob- 
servations to the same effect, Mr. Hodgson concluded by 
saying that Mr. Borthwick would reply to Mr. Thompson, 
from the same place, on the following night, and by re- 
questing for that gentleman the same patient and attentive 
hearing as that which he solicited for Mr. Thompson. 

Mr. G. Thompson then came forward, and said that, 
after an absence of twenty years from his native town, h§ 
trusted that he would not be deemed altogether a stranger 
where he appeared as an advocate of the great cause he 
was called upon to plead, and that, as an Englishman and 
fellow-townsman, he would not be denied a calm, patient, 
and attentive hearing. He did not come to discuss the 
wonders of the heavens or the beauties of the earth, or to 
lecture upon any subject of science, nature or art, such as 
those to which other lecturers had called their attention ; 
it was his painful and responsible duty to lay before them a 



76 MR. THOMPSONS 

theme of sorrow, of misery, want, woe, and degradation, — 
of injustice, cruelty and oppression, as exhibited in the his- 
tory, progress, and principles, and character of British co- 
lonial slavery ; to point out the actual condition of 800,- 
000 human beings now in a state of degrading bondage ; 
and to ascertain what it was their duty, as Englishmen 
and as Christians, to do on this great and momentous ques- 
tion. That question was simply, whether, in the year 
1832, there was justice enough, courage enough, piety 
enough, in the British nation, to declare, at once and for 
ever, that the system of slavery should be abolished, — a 
question involving the interests and welfare of all men who 
were held in slavery throughout the world. (Applause.) 
Christianity taught that they were to do unto others as 
they would that others should do unto them, and that they 
should remember those who were in bonds, as if they 
themselves were in bondage too. If they observed these 
divine precepts, — if they were disposed to yield obedience 
to the high behests of heaven, all wordly considerations 
must sink to nothing in their eyes before those sublime 
and all-comprehensive passages of Holy Writ. (Hear.) 
Religion taught them to consider all mankind, without ex- 
ception, as their brethren and friends ; and the time would 
come when even the oppressor of the negro would be com- 
pelled, with fear and shame, to own his victim as a broth- 
er, and to give an account of the wrongs and injuries that 
had been heaped upon him. (Hear, hear.) 

' Not only has the negro been denied the enjoyment of 
civil rights — not only has he been doomed to ' hew wood 
and draw water ' for the white man ; but the benefits of 
religion have been denied — his teachers have been perse- 
cuted and banished — the house in which he worshipped 
his God, and in which he was taught to lift his eyes in 
hope and confidence to one common Father — that house 
has been razed to its foundation ; thus particularly, even 
in tlie present day, has his right to hope for immortality 
been denied, and he has been consigned to ignorance and 
vice, to the labor and treatment of a brute on earth, and 
the destiny of a brute hereafter. Yet his pale oppressor 
has proudly claimed immortality for himself, and has con- 
templated that immortality without dread of the judgment 



LECTURE. 77 

awaiting him for his ruthless conduct towards his sable 
victim. But (and I thank Heaven) a title to immortality 
is not the exclusive prerogative of the white man ; they 
must both y die the same death — both mingle with the same 
earth — both be resolved into the same element — both be 
judged at the same tribunal — by the same rule- — both ad- 
mitted to the same heaven, or banished to the same hell. 
Yes ! let the oppressor die ! let men bear his corse to the 
tomb decked with the trappings of an earthly splendor ! 
let them write his epitaph on marble, and celebrate virtues 
which he never had, and let them say, high on his escutch- 
eon, Resurgam, Resurgam, Resurgam ! I shall rise again ; 
and I will visit the grave of the lowly negro, the enslaved, 
insulted, degraded, and lacerated negro, and I will write 
upon the sod that covers his remains, Resurgam, Resue- 
gam, Resurgam ! /shall rise again.' 

He was not there to vilify any party ; he was not there, 
as had been most falsely represented, to make an attack 
upon property and vested rights ; but he stood there 
on Christian principles, only to claim for the negro 
equality of rights; to elevate the negro from that 
state of degradation in which the avarice of mankind 
had placed him ; to bestow upon him not merely 
civil liberty, but, under the blessing of God, that more 
hallowed, more glorious, and more eduring liberty, which 
senators or magistrates could not give, and all the powers 
of earth nor hell take away, 

* A liberty unsung 
By poets, and by senators unpraised, 
Which monarchs cannot grant, nor all the powers 
Of earth and hell confederate take away : 
A liberty, which persecution, fraud, 
Oppression, prisons, have no power to bind ; 
Which whoso tastes can be enslaved no more.* (Applause.) 

He took his stand upon the broad and immutable princi- 
ples of justice and mercy, truth and love, and asked 
whether Englishmen, on these grounds, would not open 
the prison doors and bid the oppressed go free ; would] pot 

7* 



78 mr. Thompson's 

vindicate their love of liberty before the whole world, and 
thus free themselves from the guilt of fostering, within the 
very heart of their dominions, the foulest system that had 
ever defiled the earth or insulted Heaven. (Applause.) 
He demanded immediate and total emancipation for the 
negro ; not an emancipation from the restraints of law 
and justice to which Englishmen themselves were subject ; 
but emancipation from the whip ; emancipation from that 
odious and impious system which gave man the right of 
property in the bodies and souls of his fellow-men, and the 
substitution of public and and recognised authority, for 
private and irresponsible power. He asked only for such 
an alteration of the law as would best promote the inter- 
ests of all parties ; as would secure to the negro the pos- 
session of all his rights; give safety to the planters, and 
provide for the proper cultivation of the soil. If he of- 
fended, that was ' the head and front of his offending.' 
(Applause.) He had not then time to trace the history 
and effects of slavery. Were he to do so he would have 
to carry them back 340 years, when Columbus first dis- 
covered those beautiful isles, now constituting the British 
West Indies, standing out like emerald spots in the waste 
of waters — the innocent and amiable inhabitants of which 
imagined Englishmen to be visitors from heaven, until they 
found how grievously they had been deceived ; he should 
have to tell the horrid barbarities perpetrated by the Span- 
iards, and how, after having stained the earth with the 
blood of their victims, and almost depopulated the land, 
they were obliged to procure fresh victims to minister to 
their avarice and cupidity, and he should then come to the 
commencement of that odious and abominable traffic, in 
which this town had, unfortunately, so large a share, the 
African Slave Trade. It might be alleged that this was 
the crime of a former age; he admitted it; they might if 
they would, make him the representative of all the°guilt 
incurred, but he begged, he implored them to allow him 
to make all reparation in his power to the sons and daugh- 
ters of the oppressed, whilst it was in his power — whtlst 
the colonies yet existed, whilst the victim still breathed. 
(Hear, hear.) 

Sir J. Hawkins who first introduced this trade, told 
Queen Elizabeth, with consummate deception, that the 



LECTURE. 79 

slaves had been removed with their own freewill, and that 
the object of the merchants in removing them, was, for- 
sooth, that they might be converted to Christianity. The 
Queen had her misgivings on the subject, and told Haw- 
kins that if the slaves were dragged away from their homes 
without their own consent, he would bring down the ven- 
geance of heaven upon the country, and fearful would be 
the consequences of the crime. (Hear, hear.) He had 
not now time to describe the scenes since transacted on 
the shores of Western Africa, in the prosecution of this 
horrid traffic — the ravaged towns, the smoking villages, 
the desolated plains, the deserts covered with victims, 
fainting, bleeding and dying by the way ; he had not time 
to describe that floating hell — a slave ship — from whence 
continually proceeded the sounds of weeping, wailing and 
gnashing of teeth — or the soul sickening scenes of the 
slave market — the passing of money from hand to hand, 
followed by the transfer of human and immortal beings, 
bought and sold like beasts of burthen — or to recapitulate 
the insults and wrongs, toils and woes, heaped on the heads 
of successive generations from that time even until now. 
For all these purposes the time would utterly fail, and he 
therefore came to that portion of the subject with which he 
had now more immediately to deal — namely, the present 
condition of the 800,000 human beings, now in bondage 
within the confines of the British dominions, and the duty 
of Englishmen towards this long injured portion of the 
human family. After adverting to the writings of the Rev. 
Mr. Godwin, Richard Baxter, the eminent nonconformist, 
Dr. Peter, Bishop Warburton, and Dr. Samuel Johnson, 
against slavery— and the mission of JohnWoolman, and An- 
thony Bennezet, through the United States, endeavoring to 
persuade the planters to give freedom to their slaves, — 
Mr. Thompson called the attention of the meeting to the 
facts that the Society of Friends had long ago declared 
slavery to be inconsistent with Christianity, that they had 
given up all their property in slaves — and that the holding 
of a single human being in bondage, was sufficient to ex- 
clude any man from their communion. (Applause.) 
Would to heaven, he said, that all denominations of 
Christians had imitated that holy and praiseworthy exam- 
ple ! He would not then have had to appear before the 



80 



MR. THOMPSONS 



meeting to discuss the subject of slavery, nor would those 
who wished to gloss over the system have had the trouble 
of following him, to use the polite words of one of them, 
like his evil genius, thwarting his endeavors, and endeav- 
oring to show that his Christianity was not the Christian- 
ity of the Bible. 

' But, Sirs, you are my judges ; have I libelled Christi- 
anity? Do I misstate its principles, its genius, its ten- 
dency, its doctrines, its precepts, its examples, when I say 
that they all conspire to teach me that I should love my 
neighbor as myself, — that I should feel the kindlings of 
charity towarjd all mankind, and that I should do unto 
others as I would that others should do unto me 1 I ask 
myself, should I like to be a slave 1 I look upon the 
thousands around me, and I ask, Is there one here who 
would wish to be a slave ? And the answer which comes 
to me from every heart and every tongue is, No. Well, 
then, if liberty be good for me, — if it be good for you,— 
if it be good for our brothers, our friends, our wives, our 
children, our neighbors, and our countrymen ; — if it be the 
wholesome atmosphere we breathe, — if without it we 
should become diseased, and wretched, and despised — 
then is it good for every man ; and I claim it for the 
negro. If you say he knows not his own value, nor 
the value of liberty, I answer, he can never learn their 
worth in slavery. Freedom alone can restore him to the 
full dignity of his nature. Charge not his present degra- 
dation upon his Creator ; say not he is the descendant of 
Ham, and therefore debased. Give him liberty — give him 
kindness — give him education ; treat him with love, and 
own him as a brother, and he springs at once from the 
earth, and grows into the full stature of a rational, account- 
able, and immortal being.' 

Mr. Thompson, in adverting to the famous decision of 
the Judges in Westminster, obtained by Granville Sharpe, 
that the moment a slave set his foot on English soil he be- 
came free, remarked that the slave thus enfranchised by 
the fiat of the laws, might be the most abandoned, degra- 
ded, and worthless of his race, and quoted the beautiful 
lines from Cowper's ' Task,' 

* We have no slaves at home — then why abroad % 
And they themselves, once ferried o'er the wave 



LECTURE. 81 

That parts us, are emancipate and loose- 
Slaves cannot breathe in England ! if their lungs 
Receive our air, that moment they are free ! 
They touch our country, and their shackles fall ! 
That 's noble ! and bespeaks a nation proud 
And jealous of the blessing : spread it, then, 
And let it circulate through every vein 
Of all our empire, that when Britain's power 
Is felt, mankind may feel her mercy too.' (Immense cheering.) 

After a brief history of the struggles which led to the abol- 
ition of the slave trade in 1807, and an eulogium on Wes- 
ley, Clarkson, Wilberforce, Fox, Burke Sheridan, and 
other philanthropists who took part in those struggles, Mr. 
Thompson said that they were now met together to say 
whether something more did not remain to be done before 
England could be thoroughly purged from the guilt of sla- 
very, and whether that something more was not the entire 
annihilation of slavery in the colonies. They were as- 
sembled to discuss the evils of slavery, and he begged the 
particular attention of those who were to reply to him, 
whilst he endeavored to show that slavery was contrary to 
the principles of humanity, the precepts of reason, and the 
dictates of a sound and just policy. One of the evils of 
slavery which met him on the threshold, was, that it inva- 
riably cursed the soil on which it existed, with sterility ; — 
he need not, he was sure, tell the inhabitants of Liverpool 
that the incessant reaping of ripe crops from the same 
soil must necessarily produce that sterility. Another of its 
evils was, that it had been the origin of the slave trade 
in all ages of the world. Another evil was, that it doom- 
ed an infant, even before it came into the world, to inter- 
minable slavery. They were told that the only reason for 
withholding freedom from the negro was, that he was not 
yet fit to receive the blessing ; but how did this apply to 
the unborn child ? Could he not be trained for liberty ? 
(Loud applause.) Pharaoh pleaded the same excuse for 
detaining the Israelites till the judgments of God compel- 
led him to release them ; and Pharaoh's reason was of the 
same nature as that of modern slave owners, — he wanted 
more bricks, and they wanted more sugar. (Laughter and 
applause.) He asked liberty for every infant born in the 



82 mr. Thompson's 

British colonies. Tell him not of the alleged inhumanity 
of negro mothers — tell him not that planters and drivers 
were the best nurses for children. Did not the raven, the 
tigress — did every brute beast provide for their young; 
and could it be said that the negro mother would not pro- 
vide for hers? (Applause.) Did the planters know how 
much responsibility they were creating for themselves in 
taking possession of an immortal soul ? At the last awful 
day would they be able to answer the question why they 
had enslaved their fellow-man? What might that child 
have become had he not been doomed from the womb to till 
the ground as a slave, under the infliction of 

'Stripes that Mercy, with a bleeding heart, 
Weeps when she sees inflicted on a beast 1 ' 

Another evil of slavery is, that it depresses the body by 
excessive labor, while it takes from the slave all the or- 
dinary motives of exertion. Mr. Thompson here gave a 
very beautiful exposition of the motives and incentives 
which induce the English laborer to pursue his toils with 
cheerfulness and contentment. The statesman, the sol- 
dier, the sailor, and every class of persons who engage in 
laborious pursuits, either mental or bodily, are actuated by 
similar motives. But why toils the negro ? Toils he for 
a wife ? He may say with Othello, 

Alas ! 1 have no wife ! 

While engaged in his task he might hear the shrieks of 
his wife in some adjoining field, laid down by the com- 
mand of some cruel overseer, and writhing beneath the 
murderous lash. She is not his wife, for she is the pro- 
perty of another. Toils he for children? Toils he for 
liberty — for himself, or that he may transmit the boon of 
freedom to his posterity? Toils he for remuneration, for 
fame, for promotion, or any of the other rewards of labor? 
No. Then why does he toil ? The whip is behind him ! 
Fear is the only impulse which urges him to continue his 
degrading and laborious task. Slavery entailed on the 
slave all imaginable suffering. There was no species of 
misery, or wretchedness, or oppression to which he was 



LECTURE. 83 

not exposed and subjected. If this were denied, he would 
load the table, and overwhelm his opponents with evidence 
of the fact. They might, perhaps, be told, as he had been, 
that the slave had four parlors and a saloon in the middle ! 
(Laughter.) He could prove that the privations and suf- 
ferings of the slave were extreme, even in the best regula- 
ted colonies, and under the most humane masters. 
Among the evils of slavery were poverty, nakedness, star- 
vation, imprisonment. If this were denied, he could refer 
to a Parliamentary report which he had in his hand, 
and which it was declared by the West Indians them- 
selves, that they had not a sufficiency of food for their 
slaves. Such therefore was the ' economical ' oppression 
of the system, as it had been appropriately termed, 
that the slaves even of the best masters were exposed 
to poverty and starvation. As for imprisonment, the 
bailiff, with his marshal and his dogs, might come in 
the middle of the night, seize the slave in his cabin, and 
sell him by auction next morning to the highest bidder, for 
the payment Of his master's debts. To this the slaves of 
the kindest master were liable; even the master, by un- 
usual kindness to his slaves, might bring himself to prema- 
ture ruin. It was said that there was slavery here. But 
he would affirm that there was no slavery in Britain at all 
approximating to the West Indian slavery. Could they 
produce a man or woman, the poorest and most wretched 
in the land, whose names were engrossed on parchment 
and mortgaged to a money lender ? Could a man be seiz- 
ed during the night by a civil officer, and sold by auction 
for his master's debts? Or could they find in the coun- 
try a man so poor or so miserable that he would exchange 
his condition for that of the negro ? (Cries of ' Not one ' 
— 'thousands' — 'not one.') Another evil of slavery, and 
he begged that it might be noticed in the reply, was the 
fearful decrease in the slave population. In our sugar 
colonies, with one exception, the slave population were 
dying off so fast, that in something better than half a cen- 
tury they would be extinct. Mr. Thompson here broke 
into an eloquent denunciation of those who wished to de- 
lay the emancipation of the slaves — who would coolly wait 
until slavery and death had done their work, till desolation 
had overspread the colonies, and the slaves had become 



84 mr. Thompson's 

extinct, and till, when at length they would be merciful, 
there would be none to receive their mercy. Why should 
they wait? 'What! wait? and let weeping mercy plead 
in vain ? and let insulted justice demand her rights in vain ? 
Wait? and let ignorance, and vice, and cruelty, brooding 
o'er the colonies, do their soul destroying work ? Wait ? 
Ay, Wait ? and magnanimously charge it upon our pos- 
terity to do that which we are either ashamed or afraid to 
do. But will tortures wait? Will the whips wait? Will 
the money-lender wait ? Will danger wait ? Will Heaven 
wait? (Applause.) Humanity and reason, and mercy 
and justice, and truth, and love, and religion — every thing 
on earth that was worth prizing, or in heaven that was au- 
thoritative — united in saying, ' Let them go.' 

Another evil of slavery was the inequality of the laws. 
In every island there was one law for the master and another 
for the slave. Another evil, was the mode of administering 
of justice, as it was called, even under these laws, unequal 
as they were. He had been taunted by being shown a 
West Indian code for the protection of the slave. But on 
examination it was found to be not the code of Jamaica, 
but some other document got up by the West India body 
in the form of an act of the legislature, for the purpose of 
deception. A law indeed had been passed, and was cal- 
led, ' a law to restrain arbitrary punishment;' but that 
law allowed any driver, overseer, or bookeeper to inflct 39 
lashes with a cart-whip of Jamaica at his own discretion. 
What was a Jamaica cart-whip ? Let them ask Mr. Bar- 
ret, a member of the colonial legislature, and he would 
tell them that 39 lashes of a cart-whip might be made to 
inflict as much punishment as 590 lashes with a cat-o- 
nine-tails. Let them ask Mr. Barret, the missionary. He 
saw a man driving some mules, and he asked a negro 
driver who was passing with his whip around his neck, to 
apply it to one of the mules. The driver did so, and with 
one cut of the whip laid the flank of the animal open. — 
Let them ask Mr. Knibb, the missionary, who had lately 
been exposing in this town some of the evils of slavery. 
(He, Mr. Thompson) asked him at Manchester, what sort 
of instrument a Jamaica cart-whip really was. Mr. Knibb 
replied that a skilful driver, with 39 lashes need not leave 
an ounce of flesh on the back of a negro. (A voice from 



LECTURE. 85 

the boxes — ' That's a d — ' — n lie,' — great uproar, with 
cries of ' Turn him out.') Mr. Thompson appealed for the 
truth of his statement to a friend behind him, Mr. Peter 
Clare of Manchester, who at once stated that he heard Mr. 
Knibb make the observation referred to by Mr. Thomp- 
son. Mr. Thompson then resumed, and observed that he 
advanced the statement he had made in the full knowledge 
that he was to be replied to on the following evening, and 
he must say that the gentleman in the boxes paid his 
champion a poor compliment in thus anticipating him. 
Another of the evils of slavery was the difficulty which 
the slave found in obtaining redress. It was notorious 
that more punishments were inflicted for what were term- 
ed, frivolous and vexatious complaints on the part of slaves, 
than for all other causes whatever. A slave who came to 
complain of ill-treatment generally went back with ten, 
twenty, or thirty lashes on his back for his presumption. 
Another evil was the inadmissibility of slave evidence. 
Another was the inveterate distinction of caste which 
was kept up in the colonies, and which placed the free man 
of color, as well as the negro, below the level of the whites. 
Another evil is the ignorance which is the universal con- 
comitant of slavery. Another was the loss of self res- 
pect sustained by the slaves ; for it was well observed by 
an old English writer, that the moment you make any one 
a slave you extinguish half the man within him. Another 
evil was the pride, self-complacence and despotism, which 
were engendered in the mind of the master. The polite- 
ness of a planter to his friend, was no proof of his human- 
ity to his slaves; and he, (Mr. Thompson) contended, 
that not even a Wilherforce, or a Howard, was capable of 
being entrusted with unlimited and irresponsible control 
over five hundred of his fellow creatures. Another evil 
was the licentiousness, immorality, and sensuality which 
were the consequence of the master's control. Another 
was the danger of slavery. He would lay it down as an 
undeniable position, that no danger was so great, as the 
danger of wrong doing. No danger could possibly result 
from doing right, so great is the danger of doing wrong. 
There was the danger arising from insurrection, from 
conspiracy, the danger of being assassinated, and the dan- 
ger of Heaven interfering in behalf of the oppressed. Why 
8 



86 mr. Thompson's 

did the slaves rebel ? It was not for yams or clothing, 
It was not for the houses or wives of the planters. It was 
for liberty. The wonder was not there were so many in- 
surrections, but that there were so few. Another evil was, 
persecution in all its forms. Let the demolished chapels, 
the proscribed missionaries, the tortured slaves, all attest 
this. Another was, the disregard of religion, for how can 
the upholder of slavery possibly regard that religion which 
teaches the doctrines of universal benevolence. Anoth- 
er was, the desecration of the sabbath. Another evil 
was, that the continuance of slavery tended to destroy all 
friendly intercourse between the colonies and Britain. 
Could any cordiality subsist between those who advocated 
slavery and those who urged its abolition ? Could any 
compromise take place ? Could the Anti-Slavery Society 
be put down 1 Who were the Anti-Slavery Society 1 
They were ninety-nine out of every hundred of the pop- 
ulation of the British Kingdoms. They were the reli- 
gious, the humane, the enlightened, the benevolent all 
throughout the kingdom. Among the other evils, were the 
insecurity arising from slavery, its impolicy, and its expen- 
siveness. The champion of the planters admitted that 
free labor would be cheaper than slave labor, and said 
that the masters only held the slaves from motives of hu- 
manity — (laughter) — that the masters would be gainers by 
the change, but as they did not want the young ones to 
perish, or the old ones to want a friend, therefore they 
kept up slavery. (Great laughter.) Slavery was unlawful, 
because the laws of the colonies were not consonant with 
the spirit of the British laws. Mr. Thompson then pro- 
ceeded rapidly to expose the inconsistency of slavery with 
religion, and to denounce the cowardice of talking of the 
danger of abolition. He also exposed the meanness of 
the system which took advantage of the docile and sub- 
missive character of the African negro to enslave him. 
They dare not trample on the strong or the wise ; they 
dare not go to New Zealand, or North America for slaves. 
The slaves, when they resisted the iron sway of their 
oppressors, were assailed by Sir Willoughby Cotton, and 
the John Bull, and the Blorning Post, and Blackwood, 
and M ? Q,ueen, with every abusive epithet, and were called 
rebels, and ruffians, and ( infamous wretches.' How 



LECTURE. 87 

did they speak of the Poles and the French, and the 
Greeks, and other brave nations which were struggling 
for freedom 1 How did they speak of Tell, and other 
heroes and patriots, who had achieved for themselves an 
imperishable name on the records of Fame ? Were they 
rebels ? Were they ruffians ? Yet the same thirst for 
liberty animated both. And how were the insurrection- 
ists of Jamaica answered? With the gibbet. When a 
slave was brought before a court martial in Jamaica, the 
only question was, — * Was he taken in arms V If the re- 
ply was ' Yes,' — ' then,' said the president, ' take him and 
give him instant manumission!' and he was forthwith led 
off to the scaffold without the form or pretence of a trial. 
Mr. Thompson then alluded to a mean, lying, anonymous 
pamphlet, entitled ' Hints for those who propose attending 
the meeting at Exeter Hall, on Wednesday, the 15th of 
August.' The writer of that pamphlet tried to fix all the 
blame of the insurrection on the devoted and praiseworthy 
missionary. The only proof offered is the confession of 
certain condemned negroes, taken in their cells by the 
planters, and published by the planters; and upon this 

evidence the writer says ' Nobody who reads these COn- 

fessions can doubt that they were misled by mischievous 
sectarian preachers, especially the Baptists.' As for charg- 
ing it on the missionaries, they might as well charge it on 
the Archangel Gabriel, or on the Christian ministers who 
now surrounded him. There was no man so much enti- 
tled to their esteem as the West Indian missionary. What 
had he done? He had soothed the negro's fears and ele- 
vated his hopes, and led him to the altar of our common 
■father, and taught him to join in that heavenly anthem, — 
' We praise thee O God, we acknowledge thee to be the 
Lord.' These were the men of whom the editor of a Jamai- 
ca paper said that he would rejoice to see them hanging in 
the woods of St. James's and Trelawney, that they might 
diversify the scene ; and of whom a member of the House 
of Commons had spoken in terms little less ferocious. 
We owed the possession of our colonies to the missionaries. 
Mr. Thompson then, after alluding to the selfishness of 
slavery, referred to the question of compensation, and said 
he should like to compute what was due to the negro, and 
what to the planter, and to strike a balance between them 



88 mr. Thompson's 

The advocates of slavery, if not planters themselves, most- 
ly had an interest in the property of planters, and many 
of them held mortgages over their slaves. They were dab- 
blers in the system, and their eloquent invocations of feel- 
ing in behalf of the planter and his family were thus re- 
duced to mere empty, heartless, hypocritical declamation. 
Mr. Thompson finally alluded to the impiety and guilt of 
slavery, but observed that time did not permit him to illus- 
trate these He concluded a long, eloquent and impas- 
sioned address, of nearly two hours and a half, in the fol- 
lowing words : 

' Ladies and Gentlemen,! must now conclude. On an- 
other occasion, if I have the strength and opportunity, I 
shall say something more of the impiety of slavery, and the 
guilt of slavery. I think I have already said enough to 
give my friend on the other side an opportunity to reply. 
I have supplied him with a text, I have drawn out the 
skeleton of the discourse, I have been his pioneer, and it 
is for him to travel in the road which I have marked out. 
Much joy I wish him on his journey. If he can bring you 
to say that slavery is right, that slavery is politic, that sla- 
very is necessary, nay, even that it is expedient, then I 
say that common sense, is not common sense, justice 
is not justice, piety is not piety, religion is not religion, 
mercy is -not mercy, love is not love. I leave this 
task to him. I cordially, and from my heart of hearts, 
thank you for the patient attention with which you have 
heard me ; and there being many here who do not per- 
fectly agree with me, I the more thank them for the gentle- 
manly, patient, and forbearing manner in which they have 
listened to sentiments that do not accord with their own; 
I charge and entreat those who do agree with me, not to 
hiss or attempt to interrupt the advocate of the West In- 
dia body, when he addresses them to-morrow night from 
this place, but to give him as patient and attentive a hear- 
ing as that which has been granted to me.' (Much cheer-* 
ing and clapping of hands.) 

Mr. Hodgson, the chairman, after expressing his hearty 
concurrence in Mr. Thompson's concluding observations, 
declared the meeting to be dissolved. The audience then 
slowly withdrew. A collection was made at the doors to 
defray the expenses of the evening. 



( 89 ) 



Mr. BORTHWICK'S LECTURE. 

On Wednesday evening, at the same hour, the Amphi- 
theatre was again crowded with a numerous assemblage 
to hear the reply of Mr. Borthwick, the agent of the 
West Indian body in this country. 

Mr. Adam Hodgson was again called to the chair, and 
after a neat and appropriate address, expressed a hope that 
the same order and decorum which had characterized the 
proceedings of the first night's discussion, would be exhib- 
ited on the present occasion. 

Mr. Borthwick then stood forward and said, that the 
gentleman who lectured on the preceding evening was the 
agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, a body of men whose 
object was to obtain what they called immediate emanci- 
pation, but which, after all, they defined not to be imme- 
diate emancipation, but the substitution of what they cal- 
led responsible and public authority, for private and irres- 
ponsible authority. It was his object to show that, in the 
first senses immediate emancipation was not attainable in 
the present state of things ; and as for the second sense, 
that did not seem to him to posses any determined or de- 
finite meaning. He had sufficient experience of Mr. 
Thompson as a lecturer to know that that gentlemen would 
not be satisfied if he merely attacked principles, and thus 
overthrew, or attempted to overthrow, the arguments found- 
ed upon them, unless he also went through every indivi- 
dual argument or illustration, and overthrew that also. 
This would be his (Mr. B.'s) object to do in the first in* 
stance, and, in the second place, to introduce a f^ew ai> 
guments, totally unconnected with last night's lecture, in 
order to show the impracticability, the danger, the immor- 
ality, and the sin of any attempt immediately to emanci- 
pate, unconditionally, the slave of the West Indian colo- 
nies. Before doing so, he must congratulate himself, Mr. 
Thompson, and the cause, on the very different tone which 
Mr. Thompson had now assumed. Mr. Thompson did 
not now, as he did at Manchester, tell them that the West 



90 mr. borthwick's 

Indian merchants were inhuman or wholesale butchers, — ■ 
that those who came forward in defence of the West In- 
dian body were fools uttering what they knew to be false- 
hoods, — and he congratulated Mr. Thompson on this de- 
sirable consumation. Mr. Thompson had enumerated no 
fewer than twenty-six evils as arising from the system of 
slavery — many of those twenty six-evils he had barely as- 
serted without advancing any thing in the shape of proof, 
and, therefore, it was not without reason, he observed, that 
the gentleman who followed him would be obliged to have 
recourse to a sort of rail-road travelling, which, however 
new it might be in logic, would be absolutely necessary 
to follow Mr. Thompson in the course which he had adopt- 
ed. He agreed with Mr. Thompson that it was a matter 
of perfect indifference to the question at issue, who were 
the parties to whom the guilt of first setting on foot the 
slave .trade was attributed — but he was prepared to show 
that the planters were not the persons to whom the guilt 
was chargeable. The first evil, which, according to Mr. 
Thompson, was to be found on the threshold of slavery, 
was that it cursed with sterility the land where it existed ; 
but did not the same sterility prevail wherever there was 
excessive cultivation of the land, — even where there were 
no slaves, — and if it did, how could sterility, arising from 
such a cause, be deemed one of the special and peculiar 
characteristics of slavery 1 (Applause.) He recommend- 
ed the gentlemen to include this head in a lecture on the 
evils of excessive agriculture, — not in one on the evils of 
slavery. (Laughter and applause.) The second evil was, 
that slavery gave rise to the slave trade ; — that was a most 
extraordinary mode of putting the cart before the horse in- 
deed. For twenty-five years no slave had been brought 
■into the colonies, and how could it be said that slavery 
necessarily produced and fostered the slave trade 1 (Ap- 
plause.) The third evil alleged was, that slavery doom- 
ed the infant to the same condition as its father, — that 
was, it made the child a slave because its father and moth- 
er were slaves too. But was there any thing peculiar to 
slavery in that? Did it not universally happen that the 
child was born to the condition of its father ? (Much his- 
sing and applause.) [The Chairman earnestly desired a 
patient and uninterrupted hearing for the speaker.] It 



LECTURE. 



91 



was true that children endowed by heaven with greater 
talents, frequently raised themselves to a height which 
their fathers never knew ; he might mention an Eldon and 
a Brougham, and many others in illustration, — and he 
was prepared to prove that this might be the case, and had 
been the case even in a slave country. (Hear, hear.) In 
the colonies, the infant negro was born to the condition of 
a slave, just as the infant of a peasant, a king, or a lord, 
was bom to the condition of a peasant, a king, or a lord, 
in other countries ; but being born in any of those con- 
ditions, he was not necessarily confined to one. The gen- 
tleman had drawn a comparison between the present con- 
dition of the slaves he sought to emancipate, and the con- 
dition of the Jews under their Egyptian bondage, alleging 
that the same selfish motive which influenced Pharaoh in- 
duced the West Indian colonists to retain their slaves in 
bondage. There was no possible analogy between the cases. 
The Jews had gone into Egypt at the special invitation of 
the government, and resided there under its special pro- 
tection : and did Pharaoh keep them there because he 
wanted more bricks? No; but because he was afraid 
that the Jews would become a mighty people, stronger 
than himself. Pharaoh resisted an express command of 
.the Almighty to let them depart to worship God in the 
wilderness, and therefore he and his people perished in 
the Red Sea. Were the slaves in the West Indian colo- 
nies over-worked as the Jews were overwrought by Pha- 
raoh, or treated in the same unjust manner as the Jews? 
He should show, before he concluded, that they were not, 
and, therefore, he contended that there was no resem- 
blance between them and the Jews. For twenty-five 
years, the religious, moral, and physical improvement of 
the negroes had been proceeding, and that by the exclu- 
sive agency of the planters themselves ; he would under- 
take to show that the slaves were gradually approaching 
to the condition of freemen, and that, by and by, if the 
good cause were not impeded by some such cumbrous help 
as that tendered by the Anti-Slavery Society, — (laughter, 
disapprobation and applause,) — if it were not so impeded, 
the good work which every religious and humane man 
wished to see, — freedom for the slave, with security to 
the master, — would soon be accomplished. (Applause.) 



92 mr. borthwick's 

What was the meaning of the passages of Scripture which 
had been quoted? What did St. Paul mean when he told 
those who had been newly converted to Christianity, to 
remember those who were in bondage as if they were bound 
with them? Simply that being one in hope and faith with 
those who were suffering all imaginary cruelties, — liable 
to be torn to pieces. by wild beasts, they ought to feel and 
do for those fellow Christians, what they would expect to 
be done for themselves under the like circumstances. 
That was the simple and literal meaning of the passage, 
however it might suit Mr. Thompson to use it, ad coptan- 
dum, on the other side of question. (Hear, hear.) But 
again, remember those that are in bonds as if you were 
bound with them : were the slaves, in any sense, in bonds? 
The people of England were told that the negroes were 
absolutely worked in chains, but that was only the case 
with convicts, and the same thing might be seen in En- 
gland, with the difference, however, that the chains of the 
negro convict w r ere not half so heavy as those worn by 
free Englishmen. (Applause.) The fourth evil of West 
Indian slavery was said to be that it oppressed the body 
with more labor than any other system without affording 
the ordinary motives to labor ; he contended that even 
according to Mr. Thompson's showing, the slave had 
double motives to labor, for he also had a wife and child, 
and it was but natural that he should exert himself early 
and late to accumulate wealth, in order that he might 
purchase their freedom. The fourth evil, therefore, seem- 
ed almost to be a positive good. Were there no instances 
in which masters had given freedom to slaves in requital 
for their zealous and faithful services? Mr. Borthwick 
then related an anecdote told him by a gentleman who had 
resided twelve years in Jamaica, — to the effect that a negro 
came to him with the plan of an estate of forty or fifty 
acres, which the negro was about to purchase, in order 
that he might place his wife and child upon it, he himself 
determining, however, to remain a slave, because as he 
alleged, he was better provided for as a slave than he 
would be if he was free. (Loud laughter and applause.) 
The fifth and sixth evils attributed to slavery all imagi- 
nary sufferings — poverty, nakedness, imprisonment, and 
he knew not what all ; no proof had yet been attempted ; 



LECTURE. 93 

but if it were proved, he was prepared to show that the 
same, if not a greater degree of distress and imprison- 
ment, existed in every county of free and happy England. 
(Applause.) But when he has proved this, would the 
proof be any argument for a sudden change in the whole 
frame work of English society, in the face of that maxim 
of the soundest political writers, that it was better to en- 
dure even an evil than to exchange it suddenly for good? 
(Hisses and applause.) The maxim was none of his ; it 
was that of Paley, and of all the soundest political writers. 
What would be the consequences of immediate emancipa- 
tion to the slaves themselves? Two thirds of them were 
individuals not able to work, either on account of sickness, 
infancy, or old age ; their owners were now compelled by 
law to provide for them, and it would be a strange mode of 
improving their condition to turn them out with no such 
dependance. (Applause.) In England there were poor 
laws and workhouses, yet the poor often perished for want 
in the streets; but did any one ever hear of such an oc- 
currence amongst the slaves in the West Indies ? (Cries 
of 'Never, never,' and much applause.) The seventh 
evil was, that human beings might be mortgaged to money- 
lenders, meaning, he supposed, that separation of families 
of which they were told so much. He admitted that it 
was an evil, the only one out of the seven that had been 
enumerated, that families might be seized by law, separ- 
ated, and sold to pay the debts of their master. (Hear, 
hear.) This did occasion great pain in the negro families, 
but he had shown that in the other six instances the negro 
had the advantage over the peasant in this country, and 
that was sufficient to counterbalance the evils in their 
comparative conditions. (Much disapprobation and ap- 
plause.) The peasant incurred many more chances of 
imprisonment, than the negro of changing masters without 
his own choice, a circumstance which hardly ever hap^ 
pened, though he admitted it was possible, (A person in 
the pit here exclaimed, with great unction and emphasis, 
1 Beelzebub.') The eighth evil was the alleged decrease 
of the slave population. Now, what were the facts? Be 
it remembered that the colonies were peopled from Africa, 
by avaricious men, according to Mr. Thompson, and the 
more avaricious they were, the worse for Mr. Thompson's 



94 



MR. BORTHYVICICS 



argument ; for they would naturally buy males rather than 
females, and the natural consequence of the inequality of 
the sexes thus produced, must be a sudden decrease of the 
population, until the sexes become equal, society would not 
become progressive, as it was in all the world beside. It 
was also said that the free population increased at the same 
time ; and how could it be otherwise, when constant 
manumisions were taking place, and the negroes taken 
from the slaves were added to those who were free, and 
counted twice over by the Anti-Slavery Society, for the 
sake of producing an effect 1 From the Jamaica Almanac 
it appeared that the decrease amongst the slaves was just 
7^- per cent per annum ; he thought he had sufficiently 
accounted for it ; he maintained that the slaves were not 
under-fed, or over-worked, and he appealed to any medi- 
cal gentleman who had resided in the West Indies, to say 
whether they were or not. (Cries of ' They cannot say 
so,' ' They cannot doit.') The ninth evil was an alleged 
inequality of law and right ; by the Consolidated Slave 
Act, passed in March 1831, and allowed by the the British 
government, the master was subject to a fine of twenty 

pounds for not complying with its conditions,- and if that 

act was not passed for the protection of the slave against 
the master, he left. Mr. Thompson to solve the purpose for 
which it was intended. Mr. Borthwick, after reading from 
Mr. Hibbard's pamphlet a description of the negroes' huts, 
remarked that he (Mr. Borthwick) had called the middle 
apartment a saloon, and that Mr. Thompson had laughed 
at him for it. By a saloon, he meant the large airy apart- 
ment for the purpose of lounging in, — call it by what name 
they would, — and he would leave it to Mr. Knibb himself 
to say, whether that was not an accurate definition of the 
apartment which was always found in the middle of a slave 
hut. Mr. Hibbard had understated the comforts of the 
negro hut : — if he (Mr. B.) were disposed to draw a picture 
for Mr. Thompson's entertainment, he could speak of 
mahogany tables and sideboards, fruits and wines, and 
treats prepared for the Baptist leaders, who were so active 
in the late rebellion. (Here there was a tremendous burst 
of disapprobation, followed by applause and clapping of 
hands, which continued for some time.) 

The Chairman earnestly exhorted the meeting to list- 



LECTURE. 95 

en to Mr. Borthwick with the same patience and attention 
that Mr. Thompson had met with the preceding night, 
and reminded them that the statements made by the 
speaker would be answered at the proper time. 

Mr. Borthwick, in continuation, said that he was not 
there to advance gratuitous accusations against any indi- 
viduals, or any sect whatever : he had been repeatedly 
challenged to say and read all he knew on the subject, and 
at the proper stage of the proceedings he would do so. 
(Applause.) He hoped that Mr. Thompson when next he 
spoke upon the subject, would give them his description of 
the negro hut — that he would abandon empty declamation, 
and come to facts, — that he would no longer gallop round 
and round the lists and strike the shield with a blunted 
spear, — but enter at once into close combat, — leaving de- 
clamation for real argument and description. (Applause.) 
He had once honorably challenged Mr. Thompson to ap- 
pear before an audience half-hour and half-hour in time, to 
discuss this question fairly, and have the point settled by 
the judgment of the audience, — the expense to be defray- 
ed by the West Indian body, — and that challenge be it 
remembered, Mr. Thompson declined. 

Mr. Thompson, — from the boxes. ' No, no !' — The in- 
terruption was followed by cries of ■ Shame, shame,' — 
' Chair, chair,' — and a storm of mingled hissing and ap- 
plause. 

The Chairman again earnestly requested that Mr. 
Borthwick might have a patient hearing without interrup- 
tion from Mr. Thompson or any other gentleman. 

Mr. Borthwick, in continuation, Mr. Thompson said 
that he did not decline the challenge; he (Mr. B.) had 
been told by what he thought official authority, that he did 
decline it. — ('Oh, oh!' hisses and confusion.) If Mr. 
Thompson did not decline the challenge, then the arrange- 
ment might still be made, and the argument might still be 
heard at Manchester. (' Hear,' from Mr. Thompson.) 
He (Mr. B.) had been accused of wishing to excite cla- 
mor and uproar wherever he went ; he denied it, and 
challenged contradiction. He wished to conduct this dis- 
cussion in a calm and Christian spirit; no man could say 
that he ever evinced any other, and yet Mr. Thompson 
himself was the first to interrupt him. ('Beelzebub!') 



96 mr. borthwick's 

He only hoped that Mr. Thompson would not forget his 
present challenge, and would not attempt to slip out of it, 
as he had once already done, by saying that the last im- 
pression on his mind was that something else was meant. 
The tenth evil of slavery, according to Mr. Thompson, 
was, that there was no equal administration of justice in 
the colonies. Mr. Thompson had advanced no proof of 
this; when he did it should be answered. In the mean- 
time it was mere assertion, and he would meet it with the 
assertion, that the laws of England were not administered 
in all cases according to their spirit. How many cases 
were there in which there could be no doubt of the prison- 
er's guilt on the minds of those who heard the evidence, and 
yet there was not sufficient legal evidence to convict him? 
The assertion that this was an evil peculiar to slavery, 
therefore, went for nothing — (' Interested persons ought 
not to be on the jury.') ' I thank the Jew for teaching 
me that word.' (Laughter and applause.) It was almost 
impossible that in many instances the Jury should not be 
prejudiced by their position ; and that which occurred in 
the colonies might occur in England also. The tenth evil 
might well have been included in the ninth ; this also was 
a mere assertion, and it was hard to prove a negative. Mr. 
Thompson had produced twenty-six heads, merely announc- 
ing some of them : and the next time he proposed a text, 
he hoped that Mr. Thompson would give him something 
more than the naked skeleton of an argument, and then 
require it to be disproved. The twelfth evil was an alleg- 
ed distinction in caste or color ; he was at a loss to know 
the meaning of this since colored men were now admit- 
ted as members of the House of Assembly, and were re- 
ceived in society on the same terms as the whites. The 
thirteenth evil quoted by Mr. Thompson was ignorance. 
He called on Mr. Thompson to show how that was the 
consequence of slavery. Were not the planters doing all 
in their power to instruct the negroes? He would now 
prove, from the mouths of the missionaries themselves, that 
so far from suffering persecution, every aid was afforded 
them for the instruction of the negroes. Mr. Borthwick 
then read from the appendix to ' Barclay's View of the 
State of Slavery in the West Indies,' a series of resolu- 
tions adopted at a meeting of Wesleyan Methodist mission- 



LECTURE. 97 

saries held at Kingston on the 6th September, 1824. 
These resolutions were drawn up and adopted in conse- 
quence of certain misrepresentations having been circulat- 
ed, respecting their conduct and motives. After recapit- 
ulating these alleged misrepresentations, the missionaries 
proceed to declare their belief that Christianity does not 
interfere with the civil condition of the slaves, as regulated 
by the laws of the British West Indies ; that the doctrines 
taught by them did not tend to excite rebellion among the 
slaves ; and that the members of the Methodist church, so 
far from being guilty of rebellion, had defended the plant- 
ers in the time of danger. [Mr. Borthwick here observed 
that every person in Jamaica acquits the Wesleyans and 
Moravians of using any direct or indirect influence in ex- 
citing the late rebellion.] The resolutions went on to 
state that if the designs of the emancipationists were car- 
ried into immediate effect, they would prove injurious and 
ruinous to the colonies as well as the slaves themselves, 
and occasion the effusion of human blood ; that they had 
no connection with the African institution, nor could they, 
by their rules, correspond with any institution on questions 
relating to Colonial Slavery ; that their labors had tended 
to produce quietness in the island, wherever their ministry 
had been permitted ; that if the views of the abolitionists 
were carried into effect, they believed, their own lives and 
the property under their care would be in danger ; that 
they had received or extorted no money from the slaves, 
but that their salaries were provided out of the allowance 
granted by their society, and the sums contributed by the 
proprietors of the slaves, and from other sources ; and, fi- 
nally, that they acknowledge their thanks to be due to the 
magistrates and gentlemen of the island, for their good 
will towards the spread of morality among the lower class- 
es. These resolutions were signed by John Stevenson^ 
Secretary of the meeting, and by George Morley, Richard 
Watson, and John Mason. Mr. Borthwick contended 
that these resolutions clearly proved that the missionaries 
received no obstruction from the planners in the education 
and instruction of the slave population < but that, on the 
contrary, they provided them with money, lodging, and 
opportunities of addressing the slaves in every possible 
way. The fourteenth evil adduced by Mr. Thompson was 
9 



1)8 MR. borthwick's 

the loss of self-respect sustained by the slave. In many 
instances where the cat-o-nine-tails was employed for the 
punishment of the negroes, they spoke with the utmost 
contempt of the buckra or English soldiers and sailors, as 
if they felt it a degradation to be put on the same level with 
them. (Laughter and hisses.) He appealed to the West 
Indian gentlemen present if this was not true ; and, if true, 
it was a complete answer to Mr. Thompson's argument. 
The fifteenth evil was the pride and arrogance of the mas- 
ters. How should it produce pride and arrogance in a 
master to know that he possessed slaves for whom he was 
bound to provide, and to regard as his own children 1 
Every medical man who had been in the West Indies 
knew that medicines and wines, from the simplest to the 
most expensive, were at the service of the negroes when 
required. How should this engender pride, &c. 1 The 
sixteenth evil stated by Mr. Thompson was called by him 
'promiscuous intercourse,' which he (Mr. Borthwick) 
supposed was intended to refer to the illicit connexion of 
the sexes. He would leave Mr. Thompson to prove some- 
thing on the subject. As yet, he had merely stated the 
evil. With respect to the morality of the negroes, how- 
ever, he would read an extract from the Morning Journal 
of the 5th November, 1828. Mr. Borthwick then read an 
article furnished by an an anonymous correspondent of that 
notorious print, in which twenty-four ladies of Clapham, 
who had formed themselves into an Anti-Slavery Socie- 
ty, were held up to ridicule, and which then went on to 
detail the amours of an old negro of fifty years of age, who, 
after being torn from his wife and children on the coast of 
Guinea, joined himself to a negro woman in the West In- 
dies, by whom he had two children, and on being separ- 
ated from her engaged with a third wife. Here was a 
Turk for them! bigamy and trigamy with a vengeance! 
From this anecdote, which excited great merriment among 
one portion of the meeting, and called forth expressions of 
disgust from the rest, Mr. Borthwick drew the inference 
that immorality did exist among the slaves ; but how it 
was a concomitant of slavery did not appear. 

The eighteenth evil, which was that of persecution, rela- 
ted to the late insurrection in Jamaica, and to that he 
would have occassion to refer by and by. The twenti- 



LECTURE 99 

eth was the desecration of the Sabbath. To this Mr. 
Borthwick replied, that in the West Indies the Sabbath 
was given to the slave. The law prevented any mill being 
turned from Saturday night till Monday morning. Here, 
therefore, a provision was made in behalf of the slave, 
which did not exist for the benefit of free labor. The 
twenty-first evil was the existence of enmity between Eng- 
land and the colonies. It was paying England a poor 
compliment to say that it was at enmity with the colonies. 
Mr. Thompson should have first proved that slavery was 
contrary to English feeling and humanity ; he had not done 
so, and he (Mr. Borthwick) therefore put the argument 
aside as a mere begging of the question. The twenty- 
second evil was called ' In security no validity.' No ex- 
planation of this evil had been given, and in itself it was 
not intelligible. The twenty-third was the impolicy, and 
the twenty fourth the expensiveness of slavery. Evils now 
came so thick upon Mr. Thompson that it was impossible 
for him to do more than name them, and they therefore 
did not call for any reply. 

Having disposed of Mr. Thompson's argument seria- 
tim, he would now give them as a whole a more substan- 
tial and satisfactory reply, by showing what was the real 
state of the question, and by striking at its root. The 
question was one which affected not only our commercial 
interests, but our character as a nation. He would divide 
the subject into two parts ; the first religious, the second 
political. He put the religious part of the question first, 
because, it could be shown that immediate abolition was 
required by religious duty, then all political considera- 
tions must be set aside, and he was prepared to give up 
the whole question at once. The question was not wheth- 
er slavery in the abstract was bad, but whether we are 
bound by our standing, as a nation, to emancipate the slaves 
in the West Indies immediately. The proposition which he 
meant to assert, was, that it was not only consistent with 
religion that we should continue to hold the slaves for a 
considerable period longer, but that it would be contrary 
to humanity and religion, and to the example of Almighty 
God himself (great disapprobation) to emancipate them 
sooner. The first point he had to prove was, that slavery in 
the abstract was not sinful. For proof of this he would 



100 MR. BORTHWieK r S 

quote a passage from the Old Testament, which he must 
distinctly state he applied not to the Christian system, but 
to the Jewish dispensation. Mr. Borthwiek then read a 
passage of some length from the 25 chapter of Leviticus, 
commencing with the 39th verse ; but as our readers pos- 
sess the means of reference to the passage itself, it is un- 
necessary here to transcribe it. Here, said Mr. Borth- 
wiek, we had a law which governed the slavery of the 
Jews. The Israelites who fell into slavery, were to be 
restored every fiftieth year, but others from amongst the hea- 
then were to be their slaves for ever. If slavery in the 
abstract was sinful, then Almighty God could never have 
given it his express sanction and command. God had 
winked at times at ignorance, (he used language of the New 
Testament)but never could an instance be brought in which 
God had given a command to commit express sin. If so, 
then had he proved that slavery in the abstract was not 
sinful. 

The next question was whether the West India colonies 
were in such a state as to authorise us, as Christians, for 
some time to come to continue slavery. He declared him- 
self, as a Christian and a Briton, a friend to abolition. He, 
as well as every West Indian of whom he knew any thing, 
were desirous of the corning of the time when it would be 
a mercy to the slaves and to their masters that the former 
should be free. Justice must rise up from the earth, ere 
it could meet the mercy that came down from heaven. 
This was the true spirit of Christianity, and he would now 
show that it afforded an argument in favor of his position. 
It was admitted on all hands, that Christianity points to a 
better state of things than the slavery which existed in the 
West Indies, or the starvation which prevailed in Eng- 
land. How long did God think it fit that men should con- 
tinue in a state of preparation before the Christian system 
was fully revealed to them ? 4,000 years ; and this at a 
time when ignorant fallible men were not their instructors, 
but God himself, and the prophets whom he inspired. Did 
this afford an argument for immediate abolition ? But that 
was not under the New Testament system. To that he 
would now come. In what state was the earth at the time 
of Christ's coming with respect to slavery 1 Was W r est 
Indian slavery to be compared with the predial slavery 



LECTURE 101 

which existed in Greece and Rome ? No, certainly. All 
who were acquainted with the history of that period knew 
that it was much worse than the system of the West Indi- 
an slavery. Mr. B. here referred to a pamphlet, entitled 
* British Colonial Slavery compared with that of Antiqui- 
ty,' published by Ridgway, in 1830. What were the pre- 
cepts which Christ and his apostles gave to the slaves and 
their masters ? although Mr. Thompson had attempted to 
prove, that the Greek word translated servant did not mean 
slave. They enjoined the slave to be obedient to their 
masters, and masters to be kind to their slaves, because 
they also had a master in heaven. Did this warrant the 
language which had been used towards the slave proprie- 
tors of the present day, who had been represented as ne- 
cessarily devoid of the feelings of humanity, as butchers, 
and greedy, and bad-hearted men ? But it was said that 
the agents of the Anti-Slavery Society, although they told 
the slave that the master had no right to hold him in sub- 
jection, nevertheless advised the latter to be quiet. Was this 
following the example of Christ, who directed slaves to be 
obedient to those whom it was their duty and their happi- 
ness to wserve as masters ? He would ask Mr. Thompson 
to show him a single passage, or the shadow of a passage's 
ghost, (a laugh) in the whole Bible which would favor the 
sudden change his party pleaded for. Such they could 
not adduce, and therefore the only argument which they 
brought forward was drawn from the general principle^ 
c What ye would that men should do unto you, do ye so to 
them.' This was the only argument that was used, and 
the lecturer applied it by saying, ' Would you wish to be a 
slave ? If not, then emancipate the slaves.' Now there 
was a wide discrepancy between the cases. Would you, 
with your present liberty, your intelligence, your connec- 
tions, and your possessions wish to be a slave ? No. But 
if he were to say to the slave, would you wish to be the 
king of England, or a lecturer of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
or any other thing for which he was utterly unqualified, 
why then the slave would say no, I would rather be as I 
am. (Disapprobation.) Each was fitted for his own sta- 
tion. He believed that the individuals now present would 
cut as poor a figure in attempting to discharge the duties 
of the slaves as they would do in attempting to discharge 
9* 



102 MR. borthwick's 

ours. (A laugh.) If, (said Mr. Borthwick, addressing 
the meeting,) you were slaves, would you wish to be free 
to-morrow? (Cries -of ' Yes, yes/ and a great uproar.) 
Before any one could take it upon him to answer that 
question he must first know the condition of the slave. It 
was this. He is provided for in sickness and in old age. 
If you make him free you deprive him of these advanta- 
ges. Instances could be quoted in which slaves being 
made free, had requested to be taken back into a state of 
slavery. (Disapprobation.) Who hisses ? exclaimed Mr. 
Borthwick, I am only stating a fact. (Name, name.) He 
would name Mr. Senior, who was for many years an overseer 
in Trinidad, and was now a resident of Liverpool. He 
could prove that six negroes being made free, entreated 
that they might be taken back as they had no one to provide 
for them ; and one of them pathetically said, 'If we die, 
who will make our coffin.' If it were once proved that 
the slaves wished to be -free, then it would be right to 
emancipate them. But it had not yet been proved to be 
for the benefit of the slaves themselves. How did Chris- 
tianity abolish slavery in England and elsewhere ? By the 
gradual, meek, and gentle progress which had marked its 
course all over the world. Christianity does not take the 
heart by storm. She is beautiful and God-like in her 
march. What better evidence could they have of the di- 
vinity of Christianity than the change which had taken 
place in England from the time of her first introduction. 
He would point to the good effects which Christianity had 
produced in the West Indies during the last twenty-five 
years, since the abolition of that foul traffic which the 
planters had been the first to decry — the slave trade. A 
great change had taken place in the condition of the slaves, 
and to what was it to be attributed ? To Christianity, un- 
der the fostering, nursing, able, and willing protection of 
the slave masters. Due discrimination was no doubt ne- 
cessary as to the persons who were to teach the slaves. — 
Would it not be absurd in a person to attempt to lecture 
on Homer who knew nothing about Greek 1 It was ne- 
cessary, therefore, for the planters to see that the persons 
who came to teach Christianity should know something of 
its nature and history, and should, in fact, be learned 
geological scholars. The only men who were refused 



LECTURE. 103 

permission to teach the slaves and read the confessions of 
Linton and other convicted leaders in the rebellion, to 
show that the negroes had been misled by the publications 
of the Anti-Slavery Society, and particularly by the Bap- 
tist Missionaries, into the belief that the Lord and the 
King had given their freedom, but that it was kept from 
them by the white gentlemen in Jamaica. The Baptist 
preaehers had taught the slaves that they could not serve 
two masters. You see from this, (said Mr. Borthwick) 
that the insurrection had its foundation in religion : (great 
disapprobation) he meant in a perversion of religion. The 
rebellious slaves indulged not only in cruelties to their 
masters ; but the most horrid cruelties were perpetrated 
on English women, young, fair and good, as the youngest, 
the fairest and the best now before him. These cruelties 
were practised, hear the word, (exclaimed Mr. Borthwick,) 
and hiss not! (much laughter) by leaders in the Baptist 
churches. (Hear, and cries of ' No, no,' followed by pro- 
digious uproar.) When order was restored, Mr. Borth- 
wick proceeded to read the examinations of the o-entle- 
men on the island, and to refer more minutely to the con- 
fessions of the slaves in support of his accusation against 
the Baptists. It was alleged that the ringleaders amono- 
the revolted negroes took the same rank in the rebel army 
as they held in the Baptist church. Mr Borthwick de- 
nounced the missonaries as ignorant or interested men. 
(Renewed uproar.) The scenes of the rebellion proved, 
either that the Baptist Missionaries were incompetent to 
explain the scriptures, or that the negro was incapable of 
understanding them, when the simple declaration of our 
Lord respecting the serving of two masters had been so 
grossly perverted. In the latter supposition the negro was 
clearly unfit for freedom. Mr. Borthwick then alluded to 
the motives of the missionaries in going to Jamaica, and 
denied that they were entitled to the praise of disinterest- 
edness. He also quoted the confession of one of the con- 
verted rebels, that if they had all the money they had 
given to Mr. Burchell, they would have had something 
handsome. It was unfair in Mr. Thompson to say that 
the planters opposed all instruction, because they objected 
to the Baptists. They did not object to the Wesleyans or 
the Moravians, or to the missionaries from the Established 



104 mr. borthwick's 

Churches of England and Scotland. The Rev. George 
BIyth, a Scotch missionary, who was now in Edinburgh, 
had published a letter in the Liverpool Mercury, in which 
he stated that he found no obstruction in teaching the ne- 
groes, and that the proprietor of a mill had caused it to 
stop for half an hour, while he addressed the slaves. He 
(Mr. Borthwick) put the question to any man who had 
been in the West Indies, whether, if he asked a slave, do 
you want your freedom, he would not receive an answer — 
' No, Massa, me no want any more.' Free labor was 
cheaper than slave labor, and it was therefore the interest 
of the master to promote emancipation ; but as there was 
no poor laws, it was inconsistent with the views he (Mr. 
T.) had given of humanity and religion to grant immedi- 
ate emancipation. From the state of starvation, described 
by Mr. Thompson, they would fall into complete destitu- 
tion, and from a state of comparative ignorance they 
would relapse into total barbarism. In St. Domingo, when it 
was a slave colony, the export of sugar had been very con- 
siderable, but since free labor was introduced they were 
actually obliged to import sugar for their own consump- 
tion. The free slave of St. Domingo was decidedly infe- 
rior in mental attainments to the negro in a state of slavery. 
This proved, he trusted, that instead of conferring a moral 
or religious boon on the slave by giving him emancipation, 
they were conferring amoral infliction that drove him back 
to the state of barbarism in which he existed in his native 
land. After some further observations, Mr. Borthwick 
said, that now the question was fairly before them, they 
would perceive it was not a question between immediate 
emancipation and perpetual bondage, as the planters 
wished for the emancipation of the slave as soon as it 
could be granted with safety. He had not time to enter 
on the question of emancipation. But he might ask who 
would compensate the negro 1 Would the Anti-Slavery 
Society do so? When he said that the planters were the 
best friends of the slave, he referred in proof of the fact 
to the abolition of the slave trade, to the slave acts of Ja- 
maica and other islands, and to the contributions of money 
for the instruction of the slave. The chief anti-slavery 
advocates who had been possessed of slaves did not 
emancipate them, but sold them, and pocketed the hard 



LECTURE. 105 

cash. (Loud applause.) Tell me not, continued Mr. 
Borthwick, of the Jamaica cart-whips. They are nothing 
at all ! Mr. Thompson had said that one of them laid 
open the flank of a mule. He would give Mr. Thomp- 
son a challenge. He would give him liberty to lay open 
the calf of his (Mr. Borthwick's) leg with a Jamaica cart- 
whip, on condition that if he failed he should pay out of 
the funds of the Anti-Slavery Society, to the public chari- 
ties of the town, the sum of =£200. (Tremendous cheer- 
ing and laughter.) Mr. Borthwick concluded by thanking 
the meeting for the attention with which they had heard 
him, and by soliciting the same attention for his opponent 
on the following evening. 

Mr. Borthwick's address lasted three hours and twenty- 
five minutes, 



( 106 ) 



Mr. THOMPSON'S REPLY. 

Mr. Thompson made his reply to Mr. Borthwick on 
Thursday night, at the Amphitheatre, to a most numerous 
and respectable audience. 

Samuel Hope, Esq. was called to the chair. 

Mr. Thompson commenced by observing that never had 
a. speech been delivered so completely vulnernable in all 
its parts — a speech more disgraceful to the heart as well 
as to the head of the man who spoke it, than that deliver- 
ed by Mr. Borthwick, the agent of the West India body, 
on the preceding evening. He meant nothing personal 
to Mr. Borthwick in this observation ; he merely alluded 
to the speech, and that was his property — Mr. Borthwick 
had given it to him, and he had a right to tear it limb from 
limb. (Applause and hisses.) Mr. Borthwick complain- 
ed heavily of being charged with having uttered what he 
knew to be a falsehood, and the meeting should see how 
the charge was made out. Mr. Borthwick asserted, in 
Manchester, that the happiest of the happy, amongst the 
free negroes in Sierra, Leone, was more miserable than 
the most miserable slave that breathed in the West Indies; 
and was not, such an assertion as that a most gross and 
evident falsehod on the very face of it? (' Yes, yes,' — 
' No, no ! ' — Cheers and disapprobation.) He would again 
and again aver that the statement was a falsehood' — since 
it was contrary to history, contrary to observation, contra- 
ry to human nature, reason, and common sense. [Ap- 
plause.] In speaking of the frightful decrease in the slave 
population, he had referred to Parliamentary documents to 
prove the truth of what he advanced, and then Mr. Borth- 
wick turned round upon him and questioned the truth of 
those documents, though Mr. Borthwick well knew that 
they were founded on returns furnished by his friends, the 
planters, on oath. What was that but charging the plan- 
ters with perjury 1 [' No, no,' — ' Yes, yes.'] Those docu- 
ments proved a decrease amongst the slaves of 52,000 in 



LECTURE. 107 

ten years and a half; but Mr. Borthwick asked if manu- 
missions were not constantly going on, which might ac- 
count, in some degree, for that decrease. [Hear, hear.] 
But did not Mr. Borthwick know that the manumissions 
were duly noted in the returns of the planters, that de- 
ductions were made on that account, and that after such 
deductions had been made, the nett decrease was 52,000 
in ten years and a half? [Cheers and disapprobation.] 
At Manchester Mr. Borthwick had told him that he came 
to the meeting merely by accident, anxious to be convinc- 
ed, though at that very moment, he [Mr. T.] had a letter in 
his pocket warning him of Mr. Borthwick's approach; and 
though Mr. Borthwick afterward told him that he was paid to 
follow him from place to place, like his evil genius, Mr. 
Borthwick's very words. [Cheers, hisses, and cries of ' Ques- 
tion ! '] That was the question ; — it tended to show the spirit 
of candor and fairness exhibited by Mr. Borthwick. He also 
begged to make another remark ; — last evening he [Mr. 
Thompson] had called out ' No,' because when a state- 
ment was made against an alleged matter of fact, affect- 
ing the character and veracity of an individual, before 
3,000 persons, many of whom might not have an opportu- 
nity of hearing the contradiction, it behoved that individ- 
ual at once to contradict it. He had not declined the 
challenge of Mr. Borthwick ; he was rather anxious to 
accept it — but he had a more important work on hand 
than following the motions of Mr. Borthwick. 

' The letter I alluded to I produced at that meeting, and 
read an extract containing the announcement of Mr. 
Borthwick's approach, and the object of his mission ; and 
I believe that Mr. Borthwick himself, so far from contra- 
dicting me, will bear me *>ut in the declaration that I do 
not allude to a letter which has no existence. It was un- 
der these circumstances that I spoke, and, if I was warm 
on the subject, was it not sufficient to warm me to be told, 
when in the prosecution of a good work, that I should be 
followed about from place to place as by an " evil genius? " 
— a prophecy which has been in part fulfilled, after having 
been informed by Mr. Borthwick that he came by acci- 
dent, merely to be convinced. Was it strange that I 
should be warm after hearing such contradictory assertions, 
and being the subject of such a threat? 



108 mr. Thompson's 

Before passing from these rather irrelevant observations, 
allow me to make one further remark on the proceedings 
of last night, with reference to my own conduct on that 
occasion. I called out " No," because there was a state- 
ment regarding a matter of fact, personally affecting my 
own character and veracity, made before 3,000 persons, 
many hundreds of whom, perhaps, would not have an op- 
portunity the following evening of hearing a true state- 
ment of the case, on whose minds, therefore, an impres- 
sion to my prejudice would have been^ produced, if the 
assertion had been passed by without contradiction. It 
was said by Mr. Borthwick, that he gave me a challenge 
in Manchester, and that I declined it: I never did decline 
that challenge ; I was rather anxious to accept it ; but know- 
ing the object Mr. Borthwick had in view, viz. to circum- 
vent my design — to prevent my fulfilling my pledge to go here 
and there, rousing the public attention to this question, 
[and I have gone here and there, at the sacrifice of health, 
and almost life,] was I to remain at Manchester, and at a 
particular time accept the challenge of Mr. Borthwick, 
leaving the object of my mission in part unaccomplished? 
I am at any time ready to defend the positions I occupy, 
and I will defend them until they are successfully des- 
troyed ; but I am not bound to accept a particular chal- 
lenge from Mr. Borthwick. I may say with Nehemiah, 
" The work is great and large, and we are separated upon 
the wall, one far from another. In what place, therefore, 
ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort ye thither unto 
us; our God shall fight for us." I cannot be delayed by 
matters of minor importance, when I have proved to nine- 
ty-nine out of every hundred of my hearers, that colonial 
slavery is a crime in the sight of God : and, therefore, that 
the negro ought to go free, and the bonds to fall from the 
limbs of the oppressed.' [Applause and disapprobation.] 

He now came to Mr. B's reply ; — that gentleman had 
gone over his list of evils, and said there was nothing in 
them ; but he defied Mr. Borthwick, with the West Indian 
body at his back, to drive him from one of those positions. 
Mr. Thompson then recapitulated the evils which he had 
attributed to the system of colonial slavery the preceding 
evening, and contended that not one of them had been 
touched by his opponent. He had said that general licen- 



REPYL. 109 

tiousness was one of the evils of slavery ; let him have an 
audience of males only, and he would tear the veil even 
from the eyes of West Indian proprietors ; he would prove 
it even from the evidence furnished by planters themselves, 
or he would consent to be branded as a quack, and to let 
Mr. Borthvvick triumph over him. [Applause and disappro- 
bation.] Did not Mr. Borthvvick know that in almost every 
house in Jamaica all the men from the book-keeper up to 
the master himself, had a concubine? Did he not know 
that the marriage of a white man with a female possessing 
the slightest tinge of negro blood, entailed upon him almost 
entire expulsion from civilized society? Mr. Borthwick, it 
seemed, did not know what was meant by the instability 
of slavery, but was he not sufficiently acquainted with the 
history of the world to know, that no state of society found- 
ed upon slavery could be otherwise than insecure. Mr. 
Borthwick had not said a word about the cowardice of ne- 
gro slavery — the meanness of taking advantage of the do- 
cility of the negroes co enslave them, when no such advan- 
tage had been taken of more bold and rugged races, 
the savages of New Zealand, or North America. Mr. 
Thompson then denounced the selfish spirit of slavery, and 
quoted a passage from Mr. [now Lord] Brougham's speech 
to the electors of Yorkshire, in which Mr. Brougham elo- 
quently condemned the spirit of monopoly which would 
keep the blessing of freedom to itself, and declared that if 
he were sent- to Parliament, he never would rest from his 
labors till he had uprooted the tree, under whose dead- 
ly shade life died — death lived — and brandished it over the 
heads of its supporters in triumph. [Cheers.] Mr. Borth- 
wick had said nothing of the guilt of slavery. Mr. Borth- 
wick denied that slavery necessarily entailed the curse of 
sterility on the soil where it existed, and he [Mr. Thomp- 
son] would now quote the authority of a greater man than 
either himself or Mr. Borthwick to show that it did. Mr. 
Thompson then quoted a passage from the works of J.Jer- 
emy, Esq., late Chief Justice of St. Lucia, showing that 
the constant succession of crops and excessive cultivation, 
rendered necessary by the system of slave labor, had, in 
many instances, within his own knowledge, rendered the 
most fertile and fruitful lands a desert. Mr. Borthwick 
denied that the slave trade was a necessary consequence of 
10 



110 mr. Thompson's 

slavery, but if there were no slavery in the West Indies, 
in the Spanish colonies, or Brazil, would the slave trade be 
any longer carried on ? [Applause.] He then read offi- 
cial accounts of the atrocities perpetrated in Spanish slav- 
ers, captured by his majesty's crusiers, off the western coast 
of Africa, and contended that the only sure and effectual 
mode of extinguishing this horrid traffic was to abolish 
slavery. He had spoken of the infant being doomed to 
interminable slavery, even from its mother's womb — and 
how heartless and inhuman was Mr. Borthwick's reply. 
Because, forsooth, children were generally born to the con- 
dition of their parents, therefore it was no evil that infant 
negroes were born to bondage. Mr. Thompson then read 
several extracts from the writings of the Rev. Mr. Gilgrass, 
the Rev. Mr. Drew, and others, showing the scenes of 
misery and distress which they had witnessed from the sep- 
aration of families, and then quoted the 5th clause of the 
consolidated slave code of Jamaica, of February, 1831, to 
show that though it was provided therein that when whole 
families were seized by the Marshal they should not be sold 
separately, there was nothing to prevent individuals from 
being seized for their master's debts, and sold — husbands 
from their wives — mothers from their children — sisters 
from their brethren. Then with regard to the slaves being 
compelled to endure excessive labor, without any of the or- 
dinary motives to labor — how heartless — how cruel — how in- 
human was it in the advocates of gradual emancipation, to 
say the slave had double motives, first to labor for his master, 
and then for his freedom. From Parliamentary documents 
quoted by Mr. Stephen, in his admirable work on the state 
of the colonies, it appeared that throughout the year the slave 
ha4 Jto labor, upon an average, 16 hours and 40 minutes 
per day, for his master, and yet he was to be told after this 
that the slasre had double motives to labor. Mr. Borthwick 
denied thai there was any suffering amongst the slaves, and 
said that brands, and whips, and collars, and chains were 
all chimeras. If they were so, what was the meaning of a 
statement in the Jamaica paper he held in his hand, that 
there were one hundred negroes walking the streets with 
from ORe to eight brand-marks upon (their bodies ? Did he 
know how runaway negroes were ^escribed ? By the I-asfa*- 
es^he Hogging marks, every thing t&gjt g&uld torment the" 



REPLY. Ill 

human body and deform it, upon them ? Mr. Thompson 
then quoted from the Christian Record, a Jamaica period- 
ica], for October, 1830, a statement of the case of five 
negroes, who had been sent out by their mistress to steal 
grass from the neighboring estates, taken to the protector, 
and severely flogged, though it appeared that all they did 
was by command of their owner, under fear of punishment 
if they disobeyed. He then again quoted from Mr. Jere- 
my's work, passages showing the difficulty Mr. Jeremy 
experienced in abolishing the use of the whip, chains, and 
collars, at St. Lucia, and the ingenuity shown by the planters 
in devising other instruments of punishment. Mr. Jere- 
my's work had been published for twelve months, — it had 
been reviewed by the Edinburgh, and other liberal jour- 
nals ; and Blackwood, Frazer, M' Queen, and the Morning 
Post were silent upon the subject. Was not that a convinc- 
ing proof of the truth of its statements? (Loud cheers.) 
He would mention another instance quoted by Mr. Jeremy. 
A civil action was brought in the court over which Mr. Jere- 
my's predecessor in office presided as chief justice, in which 
the steward or bailiff of a planter, sought to recover a sum 
of money alleged to be due to him ; the master pleaded a 
set off, — and what was that ? Why, that the bailiff had 
flogged two slaves to death ; that their value was 700 dol- 
lars, and that the demand ought to be reduced by that 
amount. (Hear, hear.) It was so reduced, and the price 
of murder was allowed. Mr. T. mentioned several similar 
instances of cruelty in Trinidad, Martinique, and other 
West Indian colonies, and asked what chance the slave had 
for justice, under a system rotten to its core, — with slave- 
owners for legislators, — slave-owners for magistrates, — and 
slave evidence inadmissible. (' None, none !' Cheers and 
disapprobation.) He now came to another part of the 
subject, being the most important part of Mr. Borthwick's 
speech, — he referred to the recent insurrection in the is- 
land of Jamaica. (Hear, hear, hear — applause and disap- 
probation.) Why was he hissed ? Was it merely because 
he referred to that insurrection ? First, with regard to 
insurrections generally, how were they spoken of? When 
they took place in the West Indies, they were called re- 
bellions, and the actors were stigmatized as rebels— -traU 
tors — wretches — vagabonds — demons. 



112 mr. Thompson's 

How were the Poles or the Greeks spoken of when they 
rose against their oppressors ? (Hear, hear.) If they had 
heard of an insurrection of their own countrymen who 
were once slaves at Algiers, — to escape from the tyranny of 
the Dey, would they have called it a rebellion — would they 
have designated their countrymen as wretches and vaga- 
bonds 1 (Cheers.) How did they speak of the champions 
of liberty in other countries, — a Tell in Switzerland, — a 
Byron in Greece — a Bolivar in Columbia — a Brutus at 
Rome — a La Fayette in Paris ! As heroes. How of the 
negro leaders of the rebellion in Jamaica — a people more 
insulted — a people a thousand times more deeply wronged 
than even the people of Switerland, Greece, Columbia, 
Rome or France had ever been 1 As wretches and vaga- 
bonds, (Applause and disapprobation.) Mr. Borthwick 
had last night showed a disposition. to curry favor with 
the Wesleyans and Moravians at the expense of the Bap- 
tists. (Hisses and cheers.) He (Mr. Thompson) liked 
to call things by their proper names, — and therefore he 
repeated that Mr. Borthwick showed a disposition to cur- 
ry favor with the Methodists. The planters loved the 
Methodists, — he said ; — did they so ? Then why did the 
planters pull uown their chapels at Barbadoes 1 (Immense 
cheering.) They loved the Methodists, — then why did 
they imprison Mr. Shrewsbury, — why did they persecute 
Mr. Whitehouse,— why did they imprison Mr. Box, — why 
did they pull down the Methodist chapels at Kingston 1 
(Applause.) Mr. Thompson then drew a beautiful picture 
of the disinterestedness of the Christian missionaries, and 
their readiness to go to any quarter of the world ; whether 
on the pestilential banks of the Gambia, or the frigid re- 
gions of the Pole. The planters, it seemed, loved all 
missionaries except the Baptists ; why then did they mar- 
tyr Smith at Demerara ? Where was Duncan — where was 
Young? (Applause.) Mr. Thompson then alluded to 
the resolutions quoted on the preceding evening by Mr. 
Borthwick, and showed that the names of George Morley, 
Richard Watson, and John Mason, which Mr. Borthwick 
read as signatures to the resolutions, were in reality, the 
names of the three resident secretaries in London, to whom 
the resolutions were addressed by the secretary Shipman. 
Mr. Watson had written an eloquent reply to those resQ* 



REPLY. 113 

lutions, strongly condemning the sentiments they contain- 
ed. Mr. Thompson then read a report on the subject of 
these resolutions, adopted by the Wesleyan Missionary So- 
ciety, in which they disclaim the sentiments uttered in 
their name, and express their utter detestation of the slave 
system. The great body of the Wesleyans concurred in 
the same opinion. (Hear, hear.) What did the Jamaica 
Courant, the organ of the planters, say of the missiona- 
ries ? — why, that there was fine hanging woods in Trelaw- 
ney, and that the bodies of the missionaries would diversify 
the scene, and this he spoke of all the sectarians — all the 
sectarians, mind, without exception in favor of any sect, 
and the editor of that ferocious paper, as Mr. Borthwick 
well knew was a member of the house of Assembly. He 
would now read a letter from another senator, a son-in-law 
of a peer, a member of the House of Commons in this 
country, and a large slave proprietor, to show how fit he 
was for the office of a British legislator. In the month of 
February, 1832, — a short time after the news came of the 
insurrection in Jamaica, — Mr. Thomas Pringle, the secre- 
tary of the Anti-Slavery Society, who had been accustom- 
ed to send him the Anti-Slavery Reporter, received the 
following letter. Mr. Thompson then read the letter which 
was nearly to the following effect : — 

Sir, — I have often had packets from the Anti-Slavery Society, forwarded 
over-weight to me in the country. I have a great aversion to all canting 
hypocrisy, but it is doubly detestable when it is made a cloak for mischievous 
purposes. I therefore beg you not to send me any more papers. I shall 
only add my most earnest hope, that the Commander-in-Chief in Jamaica will 
lning every missonary in the Island ; and if the same course were adopted here 
with the gentlemen who present their petitions on the subject, a considerable 
benefit would arise to the community at large, and most particularly to the 
House of Commons. I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant. 
SPENCER HORSEY KILDERBEE. 

If they wanted to know more about this gentleman, he 
was a member for Oxford, in the County of Suffolk, a 
borough now in schedule A. Was that man fit to be a 
legislator ? Were not the beautiful lines of Sir Walter 
Scott, applicable to that selfish, heartless individual. Mr. 
Thompson then repeated as applicable to this gentleman, 
the beautiful and forcible lines of Sir Walter Scott, com> 
mencing — 

Breathes there the man with soul so dead, &c. 

10* * 



114 MR. THOMPSON'S 

He more particularly applied to him, however, the follow- 
ing passage : — 

« If such there be, go mark him well, 
For him do minstrel raptures swell, 
High though his title, proud his name, — 
Boundleshis wealth as wish can claim, 
Despite those titles power and pelf, 
The wretch, concentred all in self, 
Living shall forfeit fair renown, 
And doubly dying shall go down 
To the vile dust from whence he sprung, 
Unwept, unhonored, and unsung!' 

Mr. Borthwick had objected to the missionaries because 
they did not understand Greek, — because they were unac- 
quainted with the oriental tongues, — because they had 
not travelled over Palestine ; but did he forget that Christ 
chose ignorant, unlearned fishermen for his apostles, and 
that God himself declared that he chose the weak and fee- 
ble things of the world to overcome the strong — the fool- 
ish to confound the wise. (Applause.) Mr. Borthwick 
had spoken of ladies who had been abused and murdered ; 
torn limb from limb — where was the proof of the fact ? 
Linton's confession 1 It said not a word about it. Mr. 
Thompson then entered into several statements relative to 
the demolition of Baptist chapels in Jamaica, amounting 
in value to twenty-three thousand two hundred and fifty 
pounds currency, and then said, he called upon the Wes- 
leyans, Church-of-England-men, and Moravians, — upon 
all who were Christians and men, to come forward and 
make common cause with the injured, the calumniated, 
the murdered Baptists, against the white ruffians of Jamai- 
ca. [Immense cheering, followed by disapprobation.] He 
was sure that he had the hearts and consciences of the 
meeting with him; and recommended Mr. Borthwick in 
future not to feel the pulse of the audience in such a man- 
ner as he had recently done, and in order to save him the 
trouble he would say ; 'Let those that believe that slavery 
is incompatible with Christianity, and ought to be abolish- 
ed, hold up their hands.' [A vast majority of the meeting 
responded to the call, by holding up their hands, and this 
manifestation of feeling was hailed with the most enthu- 
siastic cheering.] Let those who thought otherwise hold 



REPLY. 115 

up their hands. ' None ? Then none have I offended.' 
He denied that the planters had stopped the slave trade, 
although Jamaica and Virginia had petitioned against it, 
when they found they were overstocked with slaves, and 
wished- to prevent their neighbors from getting a fresh 
supply. The planters, in fact, had never made any con- 
cession to which they had not been goaded. Had they 
not opposed Mr. Wilberforce, and divided, repeatedly, both 
Houses of Parliament against proposed ameliorations of 
the negroes' condition 1 Yet Mr. Borthwick said they wish- 
ed for the abolition of slavery. 

And Borthwick was an honorable man, 
So were they al! — all honorable men. 

To him however, it was passing strange, that they should 
show their love for abolition by resisting it, as they had 
shewn their love to religion by burning the chapels and 
persecuting the missionaries. [Cheers.] If this was love, it 
was the love of madmen, who were said to destroy what they 
loved the best. [Cheers and laughter.] Mr. Thompson then 
alluded to the extract read by his opponent from the Morn- 
ing Journal, and showed that the immorality of the slave 
had been caused by slavery, and by his forcible separation 
from the objects of his early attachment. ' The Morning 
Journal abuses four and twenty ladies of Clapham, and 
tells an anecdote of a man who in the first place was torn 
from Africa where he had taken a wife, severed from her 
and his children and brought to the West Indies. Was 
not that a crime, I ask ? (Hear, hear.) In the West In- 
dies he takes another wife, and then the Morning Journal 
and Mr. Borthwick charge him with bigamy ; — but what 
caused the bigamy ? The slave trade and slavery. (Loud 
applause.) He was again dragged from his second wife 
and children, and taken to America, where he took a third 
wife, and then he is charged with trigamy. What is it that 
occasions trigamy in the man who is torn from one wife 
in Africa, and from another in the West Indies, and takes 
a third in America? Slavery! (Applause, and cries of 
' True, true.') Here is one woman left desolate in 
Africa; is there no 'evil' inflicted on her ? Another is 
left desolate in the West Indies ; is there no evil inflicted 
on her ? The fatherless children, too ; is no suffering and 
misery entailed upon them by so foul a crime ? (Ap- 
plause.) If Mr. Borthwick were wise he would keep such 



116 

things as these in the back ground. (Hear, hear.) Joy go 
with him and his bigamy and trigamy too. (Laughter.) If 
he goes on in this way, he, at least, will stand little chance 
of committing either bigamy or trigamy. (Much laughter.) 
He will not allow me to call the planters names, — why then 
does he call Pharaoh a tyrant 1 because he was a slave- 
owner. Why does he call ancient tyrants names, and not 
allow the same names to be applied to tyrants of modern 
times. ' O, says he, you must be very gentle, you must be 
very lamb-like, when you speak of modern slave-owners. 
If you speak of Pharaoh, you may call him tyrant ;' if you 
speak of Nero, you may call him tyrant; if you speak of 
the Goths and Vandals, you may call them tyrants ; if you 
speak of the ancient feudal system in England, you may 
call the lords of the soil tyrants, if you will ; but don't call 
the West Indian planters tyrants when you are pleading 
the cause of the negroes ; don't call them names, but be 
very calm, peaceable, and polite.' I am reminded of an 
anecdote of Demosthenes, the celebrated orator, and will 
relate it, as some sort of excuse for my being a little warm 
occasionally, and to show why I perspire so much, why I 
am not so cool as Mr. Borthwick, who, you observe, never 
wipes the perspiration from his brows, but always keeps 
himself cool and comfortable. (A laugh.) As Demos- 
thenes was one day sitting in his study, a person came to 
him and said, ' I want you to undertake my cause.' 
' What do you complain of V said the orator. 'Why,' 
replied his client in a very cool and calm way, ' why, down 
the street, a man struck me, spat upon me, and reviled me, 
and I am come to you to obtain redress.' ' I don't believe 
you,' said Demosthenes ; ' I put no faith in your story : 
you don't look like an injured and insulted man ; I can- 
not credit what you tell me.' 'Not believe me!' exclaim- 
ed the man ; 'what! not believe me ! when I tell you that 
he struck me a foul blow, laid me on the earth, spit and 
trampled upon me 1 Not think me an injured man V 
'Hold, hold,' said Demosthenes, 'now I believe you. I 
see it in the fire of your eye, in the quivering of your lip, in 
the agitation of your frame. Now I believe you, and will 
undertake your cause.' (Applause.) And shall we, when 
we plead the cause of eight hundred thousand human beings 
now breathing,— shall we, when we plead the cause of 



REPLY. 117 

the millions who no longer breathe, — when we speak of 
the men and women burnt in the villages and towns of 
Africa, — that died in the pathway of the desert, — that 
were thrown overboard to the sharks of the Atlantic, — 
that perished by disease occasioned by the seasoning ; — 
shall we, when we speak of these victims to human ava- 
rice and depravity, becalm and cool, and say, 'Pray, Mr. 
Borthwick, — pray, Mr. Kilderbee, — pray Mr. any body 
else, oblige us by considering the subject?' No; if we 
love liberty ourselves ; if we would die to defend it when 
invaded on our own shores, let us not pause till we obtain 
a complete and glorious triumph over colonial oppression.' 
(Loud cheers.) 

Mr. Thompson then exposed, in a tone of the bitterest 
satire, the inconsistency of Mr. Borthwick, in represent- 
ing the negro as perfectly contented with his condition, 
and desiring no further freedom. 

'Mr. Borthwick is a great admirer of the missionary, yet he 
kept throwing dirt upon him at every step ; Mr. Borthwick is 
a great admirer of the negro, yet he describes him as a 
complete beast in Africa and something worse in the West 
Indies ; he is a great admirer of freedom, but he says that 
the negro is not fit lor freedom ; he loves religion, but he 
said that the insurrection in Jamaica had its first founda- 
tion in religion. (Cries of ' No, no.') The audience, 
however, stopped him short, and then he said 'perversion 
of religion ; ' for he 

' Can turn, 
And turn, and turn again, and still goon.* 

No man knows how to slide off in a beautiful curve better 
than Mr. Borthwick. (Hisses and applause.) Then he 
said something very beautiful about the happiness and 
contentedness of the negro, which would be very elegant, 
if it were true ; but the misfortune is, that most of the things 
he says are not true, in fact. That he believes them to be 
true, I must not question. He says that the negroes do 
not care for freedom, that they set no value upon it, — that 
if you go round amongst them, and put the question to 
them, they will say, ' No, Massa ; me very happy, me 
want no more, me get all me care for; ' that, in fine, they 
would not have their freedom if they could get it. Would 
they not 1 Then why are the newspapers filled with ad- 



118 mr. Thompson's 

vertisements of runaway negroes? Why are the prisons 
filled with runaway negroes? Why are the mountains 
peopled with runaway negroes ? Why is the bush filled 
with runaway negroes ? Why is a standing army kept to 
force slavery down the throats of the negroes, if they are 
in love with it? (Loud applause.) Does the mother hold 
a rod over the child's head to force it to eat apple tart? 
(-Laughter.) Did Adam and Eve run out of Paradise ? 
If the negroes like slavery, then withdraw the troops, and 
save us the trouble and expense, the loss of life and money 
needlessly incurred, if the negroes are contented with their 
condition. (Loud applause.) But they like slavery, and 
do not wish for liberty ; and Mr. Borthwick exclaims they 
shall not have liberty now, because they do not know its 
value; but shall man be kept in slavery, because he does 
not know the value of liberty ? See the pitiful dilemma 
into which Mr. Borthwick has brought himself; the ne- 
groes do not like what all men sigh for, — what they would 
bleed and die to defend, — what they would give house 
and lands, friends and reputation to obtain; — and here is 
the dilemma, — if it be so, then planters and proprietors, 
upholders of slavery, he defends and maintains a vile and 
brutalizing system, which has extinguished in man the most 
noble and generous quality which distingushes him from 
the brutes.. (Loud cheers.) What! because men do not 
like liberty, — if it be true that they do not like it, are we 
not to try to make them like it? Mr. Borthwick tells us 
that the negroes are very happy and contented, — that they 
want no more ; and then he tells us of a '-lan, a most mis- 
erable man, — if ever there were so very a wretch, — that 
bought fifty acres of land, and then said he did not want 
his own liberty. I should like to see the man who was 
thus in love with 'going round and round his tub.' Not 
like liberty for himself! — why, then, did he want it for his 
wife and children,? Mr. Borthwick tells us that he might 
call them 'my own' (Loud cheers.) Mr. Borthwick 
tells us that when asked the question, the man replied, ' I 
want to call them mine ;' and I beg Mr. Borthwick to re- 
member that word mine. Not like liberty ! Suppose I go 
with Mr. Borthwick to a lunatic asylum ; (I do not mean 
any thing invidious — I do not think that either Mr. Borth- 
wick or myself are fit to be permanent residents in a luna- 



REPLY. 119 

tic asylum ;) but suppose that we go as accidental visitors, 
just as he came to see me at Manchester. (A laugh.) Sup- 
pose we go into a ward, and see a man weaving a crown 
of straw, putting it on his head, and then walking up and 
down the ward, with his miserable rags trailing behind 
him, wielding his sceptre over an imaginary world, — Uto- 
pian princes bowing at his footstool. I say to Mr. Borth- 
wick, ' Is not that man happy 1 He never implores for 
liberty : he fancies himself clothed in regal splendor, with 
crouching slaves around him ; — is he not happy V Mr. 
Borthwick would shake his head, be silent and turn grave. 
us Then he might see another man chalking ludicrous figures 
on the wall, or stringing together senseless rhymes, and 
humming them the livelong day; and I might say, ' Is 
not this man happy? He is always smiling; he is fully 
satisfied with himself; he never sends a wish beyond his 
prison walls ; — is he not happy 1 Mr. Borthwick would 
still be silent. Then I might show him a beautiful female 
singing love ditties all day long, — an eternal smile play- 
ing on her countenance ; and I might say, ' Look up- 
on this being and say, is she not happy ? Are not all 
these happy?' And then Mr. Borthwick, with a sigh, 
would answer, ' No, they are not happy ; see what a wreck 
of mind ; see reason dethroned ; see all the bright facul- 
ties of the soul gone astray ! Oh ! save them from this 
place, 

' Where laughter is not mirth, nor thought the mind, 
Nor words alanguagp, — nor e'en men mankind. 9 

Let us strive to bring them back to society and to rational 
being; let them, if it must be, taste its sorrows and its 
bitterness , but let them know what are its joys, its hopes, its 
anticipations ; let them live to mingle with mankind, and 
fit themselves for immortality.' And I reply, 'Yes, let 
us try to save them ; let all human means be used to save 
them from this'place ; and when you have dropped the tear 
of sympathy over degraded reason here, go to the West In- 
dies, preach that doctrine to the slaves, and see whether, 
in their present prostration there is any reason why they 
should not have awakened in their minds a love of liberty, 
if it be not already there, — why they should not be raised 
from that hateful system by which they are now enthrall- 
ed, and brought to the enjoyment of perfect freedom.' 
(Cheers.) 



120 mr. Thompson's 

But lam prepared to show that slaves do value freedom 
and long to possess it, notwithstanding Mr. Borthwick's 
declaration to the contrary. I hold in my hand two doc- 
uments, — the first is a proclamation from Governor 
Ross, published in the Antigua Registei' of March 29, 
1831 :— 

4 ANTIGUA. 

' By his Excellency Sir Patrick Ross, Knight, Commander 
of die most distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. 
George, Major-General in the Army, Governor, and Com- 
mander-in-Chief in and over his Majesty's Islands of Anti- 
gua, Montserrat, and Barbuda, Chancellor, Vice-Admiral, 
and Ordinary of the same, &c. &c. &c. 
'Patrick (L.S.) Ross. 
* Whereas by my proclamation bearing date the twenty-first day of 
this present month, I did, by and with the advice of His Majesty's Privy 
Council, offer a Reward of One Hundred Pounds to the Person or Persons, 
(except the actual offender) who should give such information as would lead 
to the conviction of the offender or offenders, who set fire to several cane 
pieces on this Island, and also a free pardon to an accomplice or accomplices, 
on conviction, by their means, of the actual perpetrator of such diabolical acts. 
Wow, therefore, I do further, in compliance with the joint advice of both 
Houses of the Legislature, offer 

FREEDOM TO ANY SLAVE, 
who by his or her exertions and evidence, may bring to justice any of the 
incendiaries who have been destroying the canes in various parts of ihe Is- 
land. 

* Given under my hand and seal at Government-house, this 
Twenty-second day of March, One Thousand Eight Hun- 
dred and Thirty-one, and in the First Year of His Majesty's 
Reign. 

' God save the King. 
' By His Excellency's command, 

CHARLES "TAYLOR, Private Secretary. 
'Duly published this Twenty-third day of March, One Thousand Eight 
Hundred and Thirty-one. 

MARTIN NANTON Deputy Provost Marshal.' 
— Weekly Register, Antigua, Tuesday, March 29,1831. 

Now, Mr. Borthwick, when Governor Ross means to 
offer the highest reward which it is in his power to con- 
fer, — what is it that he does offer 1 A kw more yams, a 
little more rum, or a little more clothing ? No ; but he offers 
the slave the highest boon which the island can grant,— he 
offers him freedom. (Loud cheers.) Another proclama- 
tion to the same effect was issued in Jamaica during the 
late insurrection. 

Freedom, Mr. Borthwick, is the highest boon that gov- 
ernors and generals can bestow ; and to-day I have been 
informed, by a gentleman now on this platform, that whilst 



REPLY. 121 

he was on Ihe island of Nevis, a few years back, the in- 
habitants were alarmed by a tremendous storm, and found 
that a vessel had been wrecked, the crew of which were 
in danger of perishing. The planters stood on the beach, 
beholding the desolation on the waters, but they could not 
induce any person to launch a boat and go to the assist- 
ance of the persons in the wreck. At last, the planters 
offered freedom to any slaves who would put off to the as- 
sistance of the shipwrecked mariners,and immediately these 
men, who are said to care nothing about liberty, rushed 
into the boat, and risked their own existence to save those 
who were in danger of perishing. (Cheers.) In the year 
1794 there was what was termed the Maroon war in Ja- 
maica : and who were the Maroons? Runaway negroes! 
And where had they run from t From the ' four parlors 
and a saloon.' What did they run from ? From the light 
work, the beautiful clothing, and abundance of food ; from 
the kind care and culture of the planters. And where did 
they run to from all thi^ comfort and happiness? To the 
bleak and desolate mountains, to the fastnesses of Jamaica. 
Ay, to the desolate mountain, from the four parlors and a 
saloon. And what did they do there ? Why, whilst the 
negro of Jamaica was enjoying his four parlors and a sa- 
loon, drinking his wine, and revelling in all the luxuries 
of slavery, like another Sardanapalus, the negroes in the 
mountains were getting strong, increasing and multiplying, 
and at last down they came upon the whites, and threatened 
to exterminate them. The whites met together to consider 
how they might best resist the aggressions of the Maroons : 
the standing troops were called out, and found to be insuffi- 
cient, and with the militia added they were still thought 
insufficient, and the arming of the negroes was talked of: 
but somebody said, ' How do you know, when you have 
armed the negroes, that they will fight for you ? How do 
you know that they will not make common cause with the 
Maroons? You must find some motive sufficiently strong 
to induce them to fight.' And what was that motive ? 
Was it food, house, a provision ground ? No : they prom- 
ised the slave liberty ! (Loud cheers.) And with liber- 
ty in their hearts, liberty their watchword, and liberty their 
expected reward, they went to the battle plain, they fought 
and bled, and even many of them died, whilst the living 
11 



122 mr. Thompson's 

returned victorious, not to pull down chapels, not to injure 
innocent men, but to clasp to their bosoms their wives and 
their children, to stretch out their free hands to Heaven 
and say, ' Now, indeed, we are men and brethren.' 
(Hear that, Mr. Borthwick.) I beg my friends will not 
make any remarks; let them leave that to me, for I am 
exceedingly jealous of my privileges. (Much laughter.) 

And now, Mr. Borthwick comes to Hayti ; he thinks he 
has a fine specimen of the dangers of emancipation at 
Hayti ; and he measures the happiness of the inhabitants 
of that island by the amount of their exports. But this is 
false philosophy, Mr. Borthwick. Suppose the people of 
Ireland were to ship less of their produce, less corn, fewer 
cattle, and fewer potatoes to foreign countries than they 
now do, and eat it all themselves, would any person assign 
this as a reason why they should be worse. off than they 
were when they did export a larger quantity. (Cheers.) 
Mr. Borthwick ought not to measure the comfort and hap- 
piness of a people, by the amount of their exports. Would 
he argue, because the stage-proprietor did not carry so 
many passengers, and therefore did not run his horses so 
frequently, that the horses were worse off than they were 
before. (Loud cheers.) Would he argue that the ox was 
in a worse condition because he trod out less corn than he 
did before? How does it happen that the Haytians have 
not cultivated so much sugar as they did formerly. Why 
did they cultivate so much formerly? Because of the 
whip, to please their masters, not to please themselves. 
(Loud cheers.) What is the fact now ? A gentleman 
who is now here is willing to come forward, and state it 
firmly, fearlessly, and openly. (Cheers.) After a twelve 
years' residence in Hayti, where he kept a regular account 
of exports and imports, and investigated the manners, 
motives, and desires of the inhabitants, he is ready to tes- 
tify that the commerce of Hayti is prosperous, and that the 
peasants of Hayti are as happy as any portion of the hu- 
man family. (Loud cries of 'Name, name.') Mr. Shiel. 
(Loud and reiterated cheering.) 

Mr. Shiel then stood upon the table, and said — Ladies 
and Gentlemen, called upon as I have been by the gentle- 
man who has already addressed you for upwards of three 
hours, I do not come forward to make any long oration, I 



REPLY, 123 

merely come forward to say that the facts stated by that 
gentleman, with regard to Hayti, are perfectly correct, 
and that 1 have witnessed them. I know that the people 
of Hayti are free, independent, comfortable, and happy. 
(Cheers.) There is also another point which I wish to 
notice ; a point which has never yet been laid before the 
British public : — I allude to the revolution which occurred 
in Hayti in 1822, when the Spanish part of the colony 
threw off the yoke of slavery. That revolution was effect- 
ed by the people, without a single act of violence even of 
the most trifling character. (Cheers.) The masters, it 
is to be observed, were Spaniards — a people who never mal- 
treated their slaves. (Hear, hear.) The slaves declared 
themselves free, shook off the Spanish yoke, and joined the 
republican part of Hayti, without a single act of violence 
or the slightest destruction of property. [Loud cheers.] 
Mr. Thompson then resumed, and after eulogising the 
condition of the free negroes in Sierra Leone, in compari- 
son with the West Indian, he said he would come to Mr. 
Borthwick's leg. [Laughter.] He wished he could come 
down from where he then was [Mr. B. was in front of the 
side boxes] and show them his calf, that he might see what 
he had to work upon — [a laugh]— although he suspect- 
ed that there was calf higher when he gave that challenge. 
[Great laughter.] However he would reply to Mr. Borth- 
wick's challenge, by giving him a counter one. He [Mr. 
T.] never said that he could lay open the flank of a mule 
with a Jamaica cart-whip. What he said was, that a skil- 
ful athletic slave driver had actually done so, in the pres- 
ence of Mr. Coultart, the missionary. Now, if Mr. Borth- 
wick could make a coat to fit him [Mr. Thompson] as 
well as the one which he then had on, he would give him 
two hundred pounds. [Cheers and laughter.] And if 
Mr. Borthwick could not make a coat, how could he ex- 
pect him [Mr. Thompson] to lay open the calf of his leg, 
which he begged to assure him he would not do for the 
world, even if he could. Mr. Thompson then proceeded 
to combat the arguments of Mr. Borthwick in reference to 
the danger of emancipation. He quoted the example of 
Sir Stamford Raffles in Java, and of Bolivar, in Mexico, 
who abolished slavery by a dash of the pen, with the hap- 
piest results. He further observed, that after deducting from 



124 mr. Thompson's reply. 

the slave population the females, the aged, the infirm, and 
the children, those who had been converted to Christianity 
by the missionaries,, and those who were attached to their 
masters, the remnant of the disaffected or revengeful 
would be too trifling to occasion alarm, even were they dis- 
posed to resist the mild and kindly influence of British 
laws and British mercy. The cry of danger was a mere 
bugbear to enhance the price of compensation. We are 
not fed by slavery, said Mr. Thompson, in conclusion, we 
are taxed by slavery; ours is the cause of humanity, theirs 
of interest; ours of religion, theirs of tyranny. 

Mr. Thompson concluded a lecture of four hours dura- 
tion by returning thanks for the attention with which he 
had been heard. The meeting then dispersed. 



( 125 ) 



Mr. BORTHWICK'S REJOINDER. 

On Friday evening the Amphitheatre was again filled at 
an early hour, to hear Mr. Borthwick's reply to the address 
of Mr. Thompson on the preceding evening. 

Charles Horsfall, Esq., was invited to take the 
Chair. 

Mr. Borthvvick then stood forward to address the meet- 
ing, but was loudly called upon to mount the table.. This 
call he for some time resisted, but the vociferation contin- 
uing, he at length yielded to the persevering solicitations 
of the audience, and was then permitted to proceed. After 
some introductory observations he proceeded to say that 
the appearance of himself and his opponent before the 
public at the present moment, was, to say the least of it, 
rather premature, since two committess, one of the House 
of Commons, and the other of the House of Lords, were 
now sitting to examine the very matters under discussion ; 
the former having been appointed on the petition of the 
abolitionists, and the latter in answer to the prayers of the 
West Indian body. The sitting of these committees must 
afford some security to both of those parties, at whose insti- 
gation they were appointed, that the question would at last 
receive due consideration, and that justice would ultimate- 
ly be done. It was, therefore, premature in the Anti-Sla- 
very Society to be sending their agents to and fro over 
England, to urge upon the people the necessity of the im- 
mediate abolition of slavery. If the object was to get the 
House of Commons packed by abolitionists, then lie ap- 
pealed to every reformer who was present, if this mode 
of influencing the electors of Great Britain was not as 
bad as the the much repudiated influence of the borough- 
mongers. These appeals would no doubt be followed by 
the proposal to require pledges from their future represent- 
atives, that they would vote for the immediate and uncon- 
ditional abolition of slavery. He begged them, however, 
to suspend their judgment until they heard the evidence 
laid before parliament. This (said Mr. Borthwick) is the 
11* 



126 mr. bOrthwick's 

sum of my request ; and this will appear — [A voice from the 
gallery — ' By and by* — great laughter.] Mr. Borthwick 
then proceeded to reply to the charges of ' falsehood' and 
' folly,' brought against him by his opponent, and to justify 
himself for referring in his former lecture to the published 
speech of Mr. Thompson, at Manchester. The statement 
respecting the free negroes at Sierra Leone, that the most 
happy of them were more-miserable than the most miserable 
West Indian slave, he advanced on the authority of the 
Aid-de-Camp to General Turner. Mr. Borthwick then 
ridiculed the statement of Mr. Thompson, that like Nehe- 
miah, he had a ' great work' to do, to accomplish which he 
must go hither and thither without stopping to carry on a 
discussion with Mr. Borthwick. The great work which Ne- 
hemiah had to do, was to build up the city of his fathers, the 
work of Mr. Thompson was to pull down. (Great uproar.) 
He rather resembled a certain person who, on one occa- 
sion, presented himself where the sons of God were met 
together, and who was said to go to and fro over the face 
of the earth. Mr. Thompson had replied to his former 
speech by recapitulating his twenty-six evils. He ought 
to have shown that these were peculiar to slavery in gen- 
eral, and to British colonial slavery in particular. This, 
however, he had failed to do. He had failed to prove that 
his first evil, the sterility of the soil, was peculiar to slave- 
ry. He had failed to refute the objection to the second 
evil, — the enslavement of the children of slaves. He ad- 
mitted that the child of the English peasant might rise to 
the highest distinction, and obtain the dignity of Lord 
Chancellor, — a fact, which there were two splendid in- 
stances now living to prove. That the child of the slave 
might become a member of assembly was equally true. 
Hopkinson, Esq. the son of a female slave, who now re- 
sided in Liverpool, was so elected. With regard to the 
principle, that the sins of fathers might be visited upon 
their children, it was recognised by the express declara- 
tion of God himself. Mr. Borthwick then alluded to some 
of the other evils quoted by Mr. Thompson, and repeated 
many of his former arguments in refutation of these. He 
then, before proceeding further, read to the meeting a 
letter he had received that afternoon from Mr. Win. Smith, 
in reference to an anecdote quoted by Mr. Thompson the 



REJOINDER. 127 

evening before, from the Christian Record, respecting the 
punishment of five negroes for trespassing and plucking 
grass upon the estate of a Mr. Wildman. Mr. Smith stat- 
ed that his father was the magistrate before whom the ne- 
groes were examined, and that no proof was adduced 
that the mistress of the slaves had participated in their of- 
fence, by directing the mto commit the trespass. Lord Gode- 
rich had directed, through Lord Belmore, that an investi- 
gation into the circumstances of the case should take place, 
when Mrs. Clarke, the owner of the slaves was fully exon- 
erated from any blame. After commenting upon this let- 
ter Mr. Borthwick proceeded to inform the audience, that 
on the evening of his last lecture Mr. John Cropper, who 
was standing behind the boxes, said to the persons near 
him — • Hiss the scoundrel down.' This statement occa- 
sioned the greatest sensation and uproar in the meeting, 
during which Mr. Adam Hodgson got upon the table and 
attempted to address the audience. He was strongly op- 
posed, however, particularly by the gentlemen who were 
placed upon the stage; and finding it impossible to be 
heard, he again resumed his seat. Mr. Hodgson afterwards 
made a second attempt to be heard, and mounted the table 
for that purpose, but was again compelled to descend with- 
out effecting his purpose. Mr. Borthwick, however, ulti- 
mately succeed in obtaining for him a hearing. 

Mr. Hodgson having a third time ascended the table 
said that he had too much respect both for the meeting 
and for the chairman to have taken a place upon the table 
without his permission. He wished the gentlemen on the 
stage behind him to know this fact. (Hear.) He did not 
stand there to disavow the fact just stated by the gentle- 
man, or to extenuate that fact. It was an error, a very 
great error — an error so great, that had he, as chairman, 
heard Mr. Cropper utter these words, he would have felt 
it his duty to send an officer to take Mr. Cropper under 
his charge. (Hear.) He then read a communication 
which Mr. Cropper had addressed to him in the expecta- 
tion that the subject might be publicly alluded to that even- 
ing, and which was nearly to the following effect: 

• I exceedingly regret that from a want of self-control, and from a momen- 
tary impulse of feeling, I gave utterance to a very unjustifiable expression of 
feeling for which I am to blame. I made the very earliest apology to Charles 



128 MR. BORTH WICK'S 

Horsfall, and as it was made in thy presence, and to thy satisfaction, I 
shall feel obliged by thy communicating the same to the meeting. I am thine 
truly. JOHN CROPPER. 

[We understand that the occasion on which Mr. Crop- 
per inadvertently gave utterance to his feelings, was that on 
which Mr. Borthwick charged the Baptist missionaries 
with having instigated the slaves to rebellion.] 

Mr. Horsfall briefly stated that Mr. Cropper did call 
on him on the following morning, and made an apology in 
the way he had described. 

Mr. Borthwick then resumed his lecture, and in allusion 
to the alleged cowardice and meanness of slavery, observed 
that this would form a good argument against the slave 
trade, but had no force in reference to the present condi- 
tion of British Colonial Slavery. The word cowardice 
reminded him of the circumstance of Mr. Thompson de- 
clining to lecturebefore a chairman, whose name was a 
synonyme for all that was noble in the character of a Brit- 
ish merchant, and honorable in that of a British gentleman. 
But before such a gentleman, because he was connected 
with the West Indian Association — Mr. Thompson (in a 
loud voice) 'Read the letter' (cries of ' shame' — 'turn 
him out' — ' throw him over' — ' break his neck' — and great 
uproar, in which many of the gentlemen on the stage heart- 
ily joined. [We observed a number of young lads who 
formed the back row of the stage to be particularly vocif- 
erous.] 

When order had been partially restored, which was not 
until the lapse of some time, the Chairman addressing Mr. 
Thompson said, he must be well aware of the improprie- 
ty of his conduct ; he must be well aware of the effect of 
the example he had set ; he trusted there would be no more 
interruption ; but if there was, either Mr. Thompson or 
any one who occasioned it, should be taken out of the 
house. (Prodigious uproar.) 

Mr. Thompson immediately rose from his seat which he 
occupied in the front of one of the side boxes, and waving 
an adieu to the audience, retired from the house. The 
friends who surrounded him at the same time rose, and sev- 
eral of them accompanied him out of the box. 

Mr. Borthw t ick then re-mounted the table and attempt- 
ed to address the house, but it was some time before he 
could obtain a hearing, so great was the sensation produ- 



REJOINDER. 129 

ced by the occurrences which had taken place, and the 
indignation felt by the friends of Mr. Thompson, at the 
cause which had led to his retirement or expulsion from the 
house. By the exertions of Mr. Edward Cropper, however, 
and the other gentlemen in Mr. Thompson's box, Mr. 
Borthwick, at length, obtained a hearing. He said that 
although Mr. Thompson had made allusions to him more 
difficult to be borne than any he had used in return, he 
had offered no interruption. Was it then consistent with 
decency that he should be so interrupted. Mr. B. then 
replied to Mr. Thompson on the evils of the depopulation 
of the colonies, and the licentiousness which prevailed. 
He also contended that Mr. Thompson had given no re- 
ply to his theological arguments. Mr. Thompson had giv- 
en some imitations of his voice and manner. He confessed 
he had not so much stage trick as Mr. Thompson ; that 
he did not wipe his brow or perspire so much. (Uproar.) 
After a variety of other observations, during the delivery of 
which a good deal of interruption took place, Mr. Borth- 
wick alluded to the state of Hayti, and invited Mr. Frank- 
lin, a gentleman who had resided in that island, to des- 
cribe its present condition. 

Mr. Franklin then mounted the table and after stamp- 
ing his foot several times, said he was glad to find that the 
table was firm ; at which he was not surprised, since the 
Castor and Pollux of the Anti-Slavery Society had been on 
it last evening. Mr. Franklin then gave some statistical 
details respecting Hayti for the purpose of showing that its 
inhabitants were sunk in indolence, and that the amount 
of its exports and imports had vastly decreased. 

Mr. Borthwick then resumed his place on the table, and 
was received with great cheering mingled with a few hiss- 
es. He observed that lie had now proved from the testimo- 
ny of a gentleman who had resided on the island of St. Do- 
mingo, that the free, — ay, the free laborers of St. Domin- 
go, were forced to labor at the point of the bayonet ! Which 
of the two did they prefer ? (Cheers and hisses.) Oh, but 
they were free and hnppy! What! free and happy under 
such treatment ? Were there any such things in the West 
Indies? ('Ay, and worse.' ' No, no.' Cheers and disap- 
probation.) He had promised before sitting down to give 
place to his friend Mr. Franklin to say a few words to 



130 MR. borthwick's 

them about interest ; he would now do so. What would be 
the consequence if West Indian sugar and other articles 
of tropical produce, could not be brought into the market; 
and it had been shown that it could not be brought into 
the market by free labor ; — a point which was perfectly 
indisputable in the present condition of the negro mind. 
What if British colonial slavery was done away with, and 
the colonies thereby reduced to the same condition as St. 
Domingo ! Why, that sugar would not be grown, in those 
colonies any more than in St. Domingo, and what must 
be substituted for it? Why East India sugar to be sure. 
[Cheers.] Now was it not well known that the opposite 
party were deeply interested in East India produce 1 
[Great cheering and clapping of hands.] He had got them, 
then, completely on the hip. [Cheers and hisses.] How 
then was the article cultivated in the East Indies? By 
free labor it was said, but he would show that the lower 
classes in the East Indies were in an infinitely worse con- 
dition than the slaves in the West Indies. Mr. Borthwick 
then read an extract from the Gentoo Code, declaring the 
punishment of cattle stealing to be death in time of war, 
and maiming in time of peace, — for reading the Shaster, 
by certain of the lower castes, — to be pouring molten lead 
into the ears of the offenders, — whilst by the same code 
the punishment for stealing a man of low caste, was only 
a fine of thirty-two shillings. [Cheers.] Mr. Borthwick 
then read a passage from the work of Sir Wm. Jones, the 
eminent orientalist, giving a shocking account of domes- 
tic slavery, as it exists in Madras and quoted similar pas- 
sages from Dr. Buchanan and other writers of acknow- 
ledged authority, relative to the abject condition of the 
lower castes in Hindostan, and the arbitrary and cruel 
treatment to which they were subjected. So much for 
free labor sugar, — the disinterestedness of the Anti-Slavery 
Society ! and the humanity of the twenty-four ladies of 
Clapham, who would not use West Indian sugar, because, 
forsooth, it was grown by slaves. [Immense cheering.] 
This affected humanity reminded him of an anecdote which 
he would relate to the meeting : A Polish Jew riding 
through a forest, on a fine horse, was met by a Cossack, 
who dismounted him, and took possession of the horse. 
The Jew complained of the theft before a magistrate, but 
the Cossack denied having stolen the horse, and said that 



REJOINDER, 131 

he had found it in the forest ; ' Found it,' exclaimed the 
Jew, ' why, was not I upon its back V ' Why, yes,' said the 
Cossack, ' I found you too, — but was in no want of a Jew, 
so I left you and kept the horse.' [Laughter and cheers. 
* Go it, ray little 'un. Well done, my little un.'] Mr. 
Thompson had said that the 5th clause of the Jamaica 
Slave Code, relative to the separation of families, was the 
climax of West India legislation in favor of the slaves, 
that this was the kindest thing done for the slaves by West 
India legislators ; — now they should see what truth there 
was in the assertion. What did the law of the Bahamas 
say on this subject 1 Why it expressly declared the separ- 
ation, — child or children, under 14 years of age, to be 
illegal, — any sale, either judicial or private, — under such 
circumstances, to be null and void, — and forbidding execu- 
tors to execute any legacy to that effect, under a penalty 
of .£100 per each offence. Mr. Borthwich read similar 
enactments from the slave codes of Granada, Nevis, To- 
bago and Dominica, — the latter of which, passed in 1829, 
not only prohibited the separation of families, — but enact- 
ed that the slaves should not be removed from the estate to 
which they belonged. What then became of the truth of 
Mr. Thompson's assertion thatthe 5th clause of the Jamai- 
ca slave code was the demon of West Indian humanity. 
A good deal had been said of Mr. Jeremy, — the dear, — 
delightful Jeremy, — and the island of St. Lucia. But St. 
Lucia was a French colony ; — it had only been recently in 
possesion of Great Britain when Mr. Jeremy went out as 
Lord Chief Justice. There was hardly a person on the 
island who could speak the English language, and the 
laws which Mr. Jeremy sought to amend, were French 
laws, — not those of Great Britain, — or of the British West 
Indian colonies. Because the French were cruel to the 
slaves, — what was that to the great body of the West Indian 
colonies ? Even in St. Lucia, things were growing bet- 
ter, — but what proportion did St. Lucia bear to the rest of 
the West Indian colonies? Its population was only 13,- 
661, not one sixtieth part of the West Indian colonies. 
Mr. Borthvvick then referred to the authority of Mr. Book- 
er, now resident in Liverpool, to show thatthe missionary 
Smith, about whose death in Demerara so much had been 
said, — had been ill of a consumption long before the break- 



132 MR. borthwick's 

ing out of the rebellion, and that his death was in no de- 
gree accelerated by his imprisonment. Mr. Thompson 
had complained that during the insurrection in Jamaica, 
the judge had sat with his head hidden in his hand, and 
simply asked whether the slaves brought in were taken with 
arms in their hands — and if answered in the affirmative, 
ordered them out to immediate execution. But did not Mr. 
Thompson know the nature of the rebellion that was then 
raging in the island ? That the wives and daughters of 
the families were subjected to the most horrible atrocities ? 
Mr. Thompson had given a beautiful description of the 
wretched inmates of a lunatic asylum, — but would Mr. 
Thompson in his tender mercy, give them immediate em- 
ancipation,— -would he turn them adrift? — ('No, no,' — 
cheers and hisses.) If not, — why then Mr. Thompson 
would keep them in salutary confinement, and that was 
exactly what he (Mr. Borthwick) said of the slaves. It 
would be the greatest possible unkindness to give immedi- 
ate freedom to the slaves; for if they were so liberated, 
they would be exposed to the villany and deceit of every 
one whom they met with. (Hisses and cheers.) The 
slaves were now provided for, — and how did Mr. Thomp- 
son mean to compensate them for depriving them of the 
comforts they now enjoyed? (Cries of ' give them free- 
dom — cheers and hisses.) Freedom, — ay, — they heard 
much of freedom. (A burst of disapprobation followed 
by cheers.) They were told that freedom would make up 
for every thing ; — what was freedom? — Was it to be coerc- 
ed at the point of the bayonet ? (Hisses and cheers.) 
Let the anti-slavery society show that the liberated negroes 
in St. Domingo were happier or better in consequence of 
their freedom, or that there was no slavery in the East 
Indies — and they would do something for their cause — 
but until they did so, they had better be silent. He had 
now noticed more, — a great deal more in Mr. Thompson's 
lecture than was even in the shape of argument. He had 
not contradicted Mr. Thompson in the course of his lec- 
ture; — but Mr. Thompson and his friends had interrupted 
him repeatedly in the course of his, and every such inter- 
ruption, he (Mr. Borthwick) regarded as an admission of the 
weakness of their cause. (Cheers and disapprobation.) 
Mr. Borthwick then read an extract from a letter written 



REJOINDER. 133 

by the late Mr. Huskisson, stating that the history of the 
world did not present an instance of such rapid improve- 
ment, as that exhibited by the West India colonies. (Cries 
of ' Oh ! oh !' and much laughter and cheering.) He then 
again accused his opponent of unfairness and ungentle- 
manly conduct, and asked the meeting what they thought 
of the constant interruptions he had experienced, the pro- 
priety of Mr. Thompson's putting the question to a show of 
hands, and of a chairman, who, when such question was 
put, held up both his hands in support of it. (Cheers and 
hisses.) It had been shown that free labor was not prac- 
ticable in the West Indies ; — it had also been shown by 
sufficient testimony that it was inconsistent with the con- 
dition of things in the East Indies in the present condition 
of the human mind, that free labor should produce the 
tropical fruits of the earth. Would they throw away colo- 
nies which produced seven millions annually to the reven- 
ue in direct taxation ? Would they refuse all intercourse 
with the planters who took their goods at a rate of from 
55 to 60 per cent, dearer, than they could get them 
elsewhere? (' Oh ! oh!') How did it happen that the 
Anti-Slavery Society, who were such friends to morality, 
religion, and humanity, exulted in the late rebellion, dur- 
ing which such atrocities had been committed ? (Cheers 
and hisses.) Why did they compare the rebels to the 
Bolivars, the Brutuses, and the Napoleons, (laughter) and 
the Tells 1 The opposite party had opposed nothing to 
his arguments but ridicule and clamor, and every inter- 
ruption was a proof that their cause v/as beaten. (Cheers 
and hisses.) Mr. Thompson had said in reference to the 
report of the Wesleyan Missionaries of Jamaica, that the 
Rev. Mr. Young had repudiated that report, but Mr. 
Young had affixed his name to it, and if he said one thing 
in Jamaica and another in London, that was sufficient to 
prove what credit was due to Mr. Young. Mr. Borthwick 
then admitted that the burning of the Baptist chapels in 
Jamaica was very wrong, and could not be justified, but 
excused it on the ground of momentary irritation, excited 
by the universal belief that the Baptists had been chiefly 
instrumental in the rebellion. He then accused Mr. 
Thompson of impiety in mixing up passages of Scripture 
with quotations from Byron and Shakspeare, and in liken- 

12 



134 MR. borthwick's rejoinder. 

ing himself to the Messiah, when he offered to take upon 
himself all the guilt of England from the time of Elizabeth 
down to the present day ; and concluded by challenging 
Mr. Thompson, or any agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
to a public discussion, — each speaker half an hour at a 
time, the question to be decided by the audience at the 
conclusion of the debate, and all the expenses to be de- 
frayed by the West Indian body. 

Mr. Borthwick concluded his lecture at half-past ten 
o'clock, and the meeting separated soon afterwards, hav- 
ing previously attempted to raise cheers for Mr. Ewart, 
Lord Sandon, and other individuals. 



135 ) 



Mr. THOMPSON'S THIRD LECTURE. 

Extracts from Mr. Thompson 1 s third Lecture in reply 
to Mr. Borthwick. 

On Thursday evening, September 6, Mr. G. Thompson 
delivered his third lecture on the Evils of Colonial Slavery, 
in the Amphitheatre, Liverpool, to an audience as numer- 
ous and respectable as that on any previous evening, at 
half-past six o'clock. 

Samuel Hope, Esq., took the chair, and exhorted the 
meeting to give their patient, candid, and silent attention. 
As an additional motive for their indulgence towards Mr. 
Thompson, he stated that that gentleman had been labor- 
ing for some time under severe indisposition, not unattend- 
ed with alarming symptoms, a fact which he (the chair- 
man) stated on his own responsibility, not having consult- 
ed with Mr. Thompson himself on the subject. 

Mr. Thompson then rose, and was received with much 
applause. He spoke to the following effect, — Ladies and 
Gentlemen, — in appearing once more before you on the 
present occasion, I beg to announce that I have determin- 
ed on the adoption of a line of conduct to-night, which I 
trust will be at once as agreeable to you, and equally cred- 
itable to myself, as that which I adopted when I had last 
the honor of appearing before you. I have thought since 
that night, that it is not justice to the injured negro, whose 
cause I have the honor to plead, — that it is not just to the 
various and momentous topics involved in the considera- 
tion of the question now before us, — that it is not just to so 
large and intelligent an auditory as that now before me, or 
those which I have had the honor of seeing before me on 
former occasions, — nor is it just to myself, constantly to 
discuss this question in reference to particular individuals 
who may from time to time stand forward as advocates of 
other views than those which I felt it my conscientious 
duty to adopt. I, therefore, shall to-night, with your kind 
permission, leave out of sight both myself and the gentje* 



136 mr. Thompson's 

man who on two several occasions, has advocated tjie other 
side of the question, and come at once to the discussion 
of those topics which I think of deeper interest and 
higher moment than any thing that can concern me, a 
humble individual, or any thing that can possibly affect 
the gentleman who appears on the other side. (Applause.) 
However, Ladies and Gentlemen, before I come to that 
line of argument, which I have marked out for myself to- 
night, I shall just glance at one or two statements, made 
on Friday night, for the purpose of clearing the way before 
us. It was then stated that we ought to leave this great 
question to the Committees of the House of Lords and 
the House of Commons, whose reports are not yet before 
the public. Now I humbly submit that we have had quite 
enough experience of the efficiency of reports sent forth 
by the House of Commons, and by the House of Lords ; 
quite enough of such committees. Parliamentary speech- 
es and reports, and their efficiency, call upon us most im- 
peratively not to waste a moment, either whilst the commit- 
tees are sitting, or the reports printing and circulating, 
knowing that the great measure of emancipation has never 
been advanced a single step by any thing like a voluntary 
movement of Parliament, but always in obedience to the 
impulse of public opinion. (Hear, hear.) We have had 
quite sufficient experience to guide us on the present oc- 
casion, without any such delay; with volumes upon vo- 
lumes before us, touching the character and operations of 
slavery, why should we waste a single moment till these 
reports are laid before the British public ? [Applause.] 
Surely it will not be contended, even by the most zealous 
supporter of slavery, that we have yet to learn what slavery 
is? On the showing of my friend himself, we can learn the 
ancient history of slavery from the Scriptures ; we can 
learn the modern history of slavery from every one who has 
been in the West Indies ; and yet, with this accumulation 
of evidence from past and present ages, we are called upon 
to delay expressing our opinion on the subject, until the 
House of Commons and the House of Lords have put us 
in possession of fresh information ! We shall be glad to add 
that to our stock of information ; but surely we are not to 
wait till that information is laid before us. [Applause.] I 
beg to make another remark in reference to an. illustration 



THIRD LECTURE. 137 

which was given of the possibility of a negro infant rising 
from the condition in which he was born to fill one of the 
highest stations in the colonies. That illustration was, 
that a slave in the colony of Demerara eventually became 
a member of the House of Assembly in that island. I beg 
to remind Mr. Borthwick, (though I am sure it was an 
unintentional mistake on his part,) that there is no House 
of Assembly in Demerara ; he might, however, have be- 
come a member of the Council ; it is true that that gen- 
tlemen was the child of a slave mother, but who was the 
known and avowed parent of that child 1 A West India 
planter, a gentleman residing in that colony, who, happen- 
ing to adopt a line of conduct which I wish every planter 
under similar circumstances would adopt, acknowledged 
his son, brought him up as such, and raised him to the same 
rank in society which he himself held. (Hear, hear.) 
It was only in consequence of that father being a freeman 
that the child of a slave raised himself to that eminence, 
which is so boldly adduced, by the gentleman on the other 
side, to prove that there is nothing in slavery which dooms 
the child of a slave to interminable bondage. (Cheers.) 
I shall not attempt to reply to the comparison which the 
gentleman drew between me and a certain notorious indi- 
vidual, who, when he came among the sons of God, and 
was asked whence he came, said, f From going to and fro 
in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.' I may 
so far resemble that personage that I have come here from 
walking up and down upon the earth ; but unless that gen- 
tleman can show that our objects are similar, I do not 
think the comparison will serve his purpose. (Laughter 
and applause.) 

One word in behalf of the missionary Smith. I learn- 
ed from the report published in the Chronicle, (for I was 
not there myself,) that Mr. Borthwick said that the death 
of the missionary Smith was in no way accelerated by the 
treatment to which he had been subjected in the colony of 
Demerara. I hold in my hand the substance of two debates 
in the House of Commons, on the 1st and 11th of June, 
1824,on a motion submitted by Mr. (now Lord) Brougham 
on the subject of the Rev. John Smith, late missionary 
in Demerara. I beg to refer to page 8 of the substance of 
12* 



138 mr. Thompson's 

the debate-in Parliament. Mr. Brougham, in the course of 
opening the subject, said, 

* It appears that Mr. Smith officiated in the colony of Demerara for seven 
years. He had maintained during his whole life a character of the most un- 
impeachable moral purity, which had won not alone the love and veneration 
of his own immediate flock, but had procured him the respect and consider- 
ation of almcst all who resided in his neighborhood. Indeed, there was not 
a duty of his ministry that he had not discharged with fidelity and zeal. 
That this was his character is evident even from the papers laid upon the 
table of that House. These documents, however, disclose but a part of the 
truth on this point. Before I sit down I shall have occasion to advert to 
other sources, which show that the character of Mr. Smith was such as I 
have described it ; and that those who were best qualified to form an opinion, 
had borne the highest testimony to his virtuous and meritorious labors. Yet 
ihis Christian Minister, thus usefully employed, was dragged from his house, 
three days after the revolt began, and when it had been substantially quelled, 
with an indecent haste that allowed not the accommodation even of those 
clothes which, in all climates, are necessary to human comfort, but which, 
in a tropical climate, were absolutely essential to health. He was dragged 
too from his home and his family, at a time when his life was attacked by a dis- 
ease which, in all probability, would, in any circumstances, have ended in his 
dissolution but which the treatment he then received powerfully assisted in its 
fatal progress. He was first imprisoned, in that sultry climate, in an unwhole- 
some fetid room, exposed to the heat of sun This situation was afterwards 
changed, and he was conveyed to a place only suited to the purposes of tor- 
tare, a kind of damp dungeon, where the floor was over stagnant water, visi- 
ble through the wide crevices of the boards.' 

If we are told that Mr. Smith was laboring under a con- 
sumption, that only makes the matter worse for those who, 
seeing him in such a state, dragged him from his home 
without even a change of clothes, so necessary in that sultry 
climate ; it is only the worse for those who plunged a man in 
the last stage of consumption, first into an uncovered room, 
and then confined him in a place where the atmosphere 
was perfectly impure ; where filth and stagnant water were 
seen through the boards of the floor. (Hear, hear.) Let 
it not be said that Mr. Smith was hale and strong, — let 
it not be said that he was a healthy man when he went 
into prison, and was really killed by the treatment he re- 
ceived there; let us acknowledge that he was under the 
influence of a wasting consumption at the time ; and then 
in what light do the authorities of Demerara appear when 
they plunge a man, whose guilt is not yet established, into 
a place so likely to accelerate death, — a place so unfit for 
his accommodation, if the hand of disease were already 
upon him ? For a period of five or six months was this ho- 
ly man confined in a noisome prison, and then he was 



THIRD LECTURE. 139 

manumitted. He left oppression and cruelty in Demerara, 
for that land of liberty, life, and love, where he is now en- 
joying that beatific vision of which the authorities in Dem- 
erara and in the other colonies would deprive those who 
are now being taught the way of life and salvation. 
Another word with regard to Hay ti. I do not know why it ' 
is that Hayti is for ever brought upon the tapis to scare the 
English nation from doing their duty towards the slaves in 
the British colonies. Why is Hayti thus spoken of ? I had 
the honor to introduce before you, on Thursday evening, a 
gentleman who had resided for twelve years in the Island 
of St. Domingo, who declared the peasantry of that island 
to be the happiest he had ever met with, and that gentleman 
has travelled much, both in Europe and America, and 
who told you it was utterly false that the negroes were 
made to cultivate the soil at the point of the bayonet. 
On the face of it, this mode of coercion appears to be 
perfectly impossible. Will any body on the other side 
describe to us the amount of the discipline inflicted on the 
negroes in St. Domingo, as we can describe the discipline 
on cane pieces in the West India colonies ? It is easy to 
imagine a gang of thirty slaves on every such cane piece, — 
men, women, and children, under the management of the 
athletic driver, leading them on to labor by the cruel whip, 
— stimulating their languid frames by the whip, and sup- 
plying motives to the mind by torturing the body ; but 
here, in St. Domingo, there are a thousand motives for 
exertion free from personal coercion, and I am sure no one 
can point out how a mode of discipline like that general- 
ly spoken of by the opposite party, as existing in St. Do- 
mingo, can be maintained. How can men be kept to labor 
by the point of the bayonet ? The gentleman who address- 
ed you lived for twelve years on the island ;* he travelled 
over its length and its breadth, again and again ; he has gone 
from one end of it to the other, with mules laden with trea- 
sure, and slept, night after night, in open places, and nev- 
er met with the slightest molestation ; he had been present 
at all descriptions of labor, and he never saw any thing 
like coercion used to obtain the products of the earth. 
He likewise declares that never was greater industry dis- 
played in the world than may be seen about the docks and 
quays of that island, and this, too, in the absence of all coer- 



140 mr. Thompson's 

cive measures. He himself saved 50 per cent, in wages 
in one year by introducing a graduated scale of task work, 
instead of paying the laborers by the day, as before ; and 
he declares that he never saw men put forth greater ener- 
gies, or work with more willingness than those employed by 
himself and other persons in the island in this manner. 

Now with regard to East India sugar, and West India 
sugar ; it cannot be shown that the produce sold here, as 
the produce of free labor, is the produce of slave labor ; it 
cannot be shown that the slavery of the East Indies bears 
any resemblance to the slavery in the West Indies. It has 
been shown, by a gentleman now on this platform, that the 
two systems are not comparable in atrocity, and it is well 
known that the anti-slavery world are most willing to en- 
ter into the details of this part of the subject. But even 
if what is called the East India slavery were all that it is 
said to be, will Mr. Borthwick vindicate the continuance 
of slavery on that score? Will two blacks make a white ? 
two wrongs a right? Will our friends on the other side 
never leave off palliating one crime by reference to anoth- 
er crime? (Applause.) One word more with regard to 
Mr. Jeremie : — not one of his facts has been impugned ; 
it has not been shown that he has erred in one single cir- 
cumstance which he has stated ; and the only mode of de- 
fence, or rather the only mode of opposition adopted 
against those invaluable documents, the ' Four Essays on 
Colonial Slavery,' is the assertion that St. Lucia was a 
French Colony, and that we are not answerable for the 
abominations and crimes committed on that island which 
but recently came into our possession. But Mr. Jeremie 
went to St. Lucia in 1826, and remained there till 1829, 
and that island was ceded to us in 1815, so that, there was 
quite sufficent time to introduce improvements if any had 
been intended. 

Looking at the line of defence which has been adopted 
on this occasion, I do not admit that the appeals you have 
heard from Mr. Borthwick can be called any thing but 
a defence of colonial slavery. Let every thing, therefore, 
be called by its proper name. We are seeking to obtain 
the emancipation of the negro ; — how ? — by fair and man- 
ly means. On what principles? — on Christian principles. 
To whom do we appeal ? — to unpacked audiences of 3000 



THIRD LECTURE. 141 

of our countrymen ; half collected by the West India body, 
half by ourselves. (Applause.) We appeal to your judg- 
ments ; for authority we appeal to the Scriptures; for ar- 
gument and illustration to the wrongs and woes, the sighs 
and groans of captives for centuries, of the men and women 
in the colonies, whose natural rights ever have been, and 
still are, as sacred as our own. (Loud applause.) What then! 
this being our object, this being our glorious goal, whilst we 
are patiently and steadily pressing onward towards that goal, 
who comes across our path ? Men who call themselves evil 
genii; men who come to hunt the advocates of this mea- 
sure on these principles, like an evil genius ; and yet we 
are called upon by them to say, and to believe, that they are 
working in the same vineyard with ourselves ; that they are 
sowing for the same harvest with ourselves ; fighting for 
the same glorious conquest with ourselves. (Applause.) 
If they be, why, then, vituperate us; why defame our so- 
ciety ; why revile and desecrate our principles? why thwart 
our benevolent views ? If our objects be one; if our wish- 
es be one, why are we thwarted'? I say, to defend slavery. 
(Cries of ' No, no,' and ' Yes, yes.') I repeat it — to de- 
fend British colonial slavery. No other object can those 
have who would resist or thwart measures which have for 
their object the safe, equitable, and righteous settlement 
of this long-debated question. (Loud applause.) What! 
do they fear lest we should run too fast in the race of hu- 
manity ? Do they fear lest the system should come to 
the ground too soon ; that the slave should rise to the con- 
dition of a free and happy peasant too soon ? Would they 
wait till the last Ethiopian stretched out his hnnds to God, 
before they granted the boon of freedom ? Would they 
have us refrain from lifting up our voices, like the sound 
of the ram's horn, before we bring down the walls of their 
infernal Jericho, and leave not a stone standing? (Loud 
applause.) It is declared that the only difference between 
us is, the difference between to-day and to-morrow. What! 
all this fuss about to-day and to-morrow, — we wanting to 
do it to-day and they to-morrow : we wanting to do it im- 
mediately and they gradually ? Why, do they not remem- 
ber that ours ivas a society to procure gradual emanci- 
pation for the negro ; that ours was a society for the grad- 
ual abolition of slavery ? And were they less hostile to 
us then than they are now ? When we were professing 



142 mr. Thompson's 

the very principles which they now profess, did they la- 
bor with us 1 Did they subscribe to the funds of our so- 
society 1 No : they were as hostile to us as they are now ; 
but now the only part of the political machine which serv- 
ed their interests, being about to be done away with in a 
reformed Parliament, they find it necessary to make up the 
deficiency by an active agency, like that which I have had 
the pleasure of witnessing in this place. (Applause.) 
They tell us that they were friends to the abolition of the 
slave trade ; whence then arose the necessity for the un- 
ceasing and protracted labors of a Clarkson, a Wilberforce, 
and a Granville Sharpe 1 How was it that when Granville 
Sharpe, in this very town, was collecting evidence on the 
subject of the slave trade, he was nearly pushed from the 
pier into the sea, to be buried beneath the waters ? Why 
was that deadly hostility continued up to the very hour 
that the diabolical traffic was destroyed 1 Those who de- 
fended the slave trade then, are those who defend slavery 
now; the same class of men, filling the same situations in 
society, having the same interest in the system, and many 
of them identically the same persons. (Hear, hear.) 
They can now have only one of two motives in view ; let 
them take their choice. They are either acting on the mo- 
tive I have described, namely, a desire to perpetuate the 
system, or they want to come in at the death with us, and 
share our triumph ; a very dastardly piece of conduct this. 
(Laughter.) No ; it shall not be allowed, unless they will 
manfully say, c We have been in the wrong, and you are 
in the right.' Let them do this, and then we will give 
them the right hand of fellowship, and walk onwards to- 
gether until the last stone of this horrible fabric tumbles to 
the ground; but. while they insidiously profess to support 
emancipation, — at the same time calumniating, thwarting, 
and opposing us, — they are the friends of slavery, and not 
of its abolition. (Loud applause.) 

I am accused of unjustly and improperly interfering in 
electioneering matters; — will the honorable gentleman say 
that the interference of the boroughmongers in past times, 
sending seventy or eighty members to the House of Com- 
mons, who held their seats on the simple condition of de- 
fending slavery, was just and proper? What! is it im- 
proper in an Englishman to speak on this subject before an 



THIRD LECTURE. 143 

audience of 3000 of his fellow-countrymen, in his native 
town ? What ! is it improper to appeal to their judgment as 
to the manner in which the elective franchise ought to be 
exercised ? What! is it improper and unjust to endeavor 
to inform their judgment when the franchise must be ex- 
ercised properly, in proportion as the judgment is inform- 
ed, and the conscience awakened? Is this any thing like 
the influence exercised by the boroughmongers? If it is, 
where is the point of resemblance? None; there is no 
resemblance whatever. It is competent to that man — it 
is competent to me — it is competent to any one, to express 
an opinion on the subject ; you cannot prevent it. 

In estimating the array of force against us on this ques- 
tion, we ought never to forget all the family connexions of 
the planters, their wives — Heaven bless them ! and their 
children, and their brothers, and uncles, and aunts, and 
all their dear expectant relatives and friends. We ought 
not to forget either the ladies or the gentlemen, either the 
young or the old, either the beautiful or the ugly; we 
ought not to forget the captains, the clerks, and coopers, 
many of whom can lend a hand if necessary, even in 
the Liverpool Amphitheatre, for aiding the cause of West 
India slavery. [Laughter and applause.] Nor must we 
forget the delightful stories told by individual visitors to the 
colonies ; ladies and gentlemen who have absolutely seen the 
West Indies, sate in the house of the planter, and come home 
to describe Jamaica and the other islands, as so many Para- 
dises, and persuade us that the peasantry of our own coun- 
try are far worse off than the laboring population of the 
West Indies. And pray, whom did these ladies and gen- 
tlemen go to see, the planter or the slave ? The planter. — 
At whose table did they dine ? The planter's table. — On 
whose couch did they sleep? The planter's couch. — 
Whose friends were they ? The planter's friends. — 
Whose wine did they drink ? The planter's wine. — With 
whose daughter did they dance ? The planter's daughter. 
— On whose horse did they ride? The planter's horse. — 
In whose ship did they come home? The Liverpool mer- 
chant's ship. And yet these gentlemen who came home, 
and ladies too — for ladies do sometimes plead the cause of 
slavery — these parties think themselves perfectly qualified 



144 mr. Thompson's 

to draw a correct picture of slavery in the West India 
colonies. 

* Nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice.' 

And then the delightful patronage of this system ; pop- 
ping of people into nice places, the appointment of gov- 
ernors and their dependants, and the very nice and accom- 
modating births to be filled up, as managers, overseers, 
and so forth, and so forth, all contribute to the support of 
the system. Another support is the subornation of the 
press, the hiring of the press. It is a notorious fact, 
known to all the world, that a great portion of the press of 
this country is bribed to uphold the system of colonial slav- 
ery. [Hisses and applause.] I say that the press has been 
bribed. I know that the conductor of a Glasgow paper 
has received many thousand pounds, voted to him by colo- 
nial Houses of Assembly, and the West India body at 
home, for advocating the cause of the planters, and sup- 
porting slavery. Another source from which the system 
receives support is the ignorance of the British public; 
and I say that ignorance on this subject is, to a certain 
extent, crime also. We have been wilfully ignorant on the 
subject ; we have not opened our eyes to the fact before 
us; we have not examined into the nature of British colo- 
nial slavery, else our fears would have been alarmed, our 
humanity shocked, our religion exercised, and, ere this, 
(but for our ignorance,) we should have got rid of this 
odious system. Pride has done much, and timidity has 

done more, to prevent its [Hisses.] I hear a hiss : is 

it not as I have said ? He who is not with us is against 
us. The timid amongst mankind are hanging back, from 
an apprehension of the danger of emancipation, simply 
because they will not take the pains to ascertain the truth. 
Their fears would be removed if they only came to the light 
to be examined. Compare the danger of the abolition of 
the system, with the danger of its continuance, and that of 
abolition will sink to nothing. A great many inconsistent 
people do not like slavery themselves, and would wish to 
get rid of it; but they have no pity or concern for the 
slaves in the West Indies. Charles James Fox, who was 
as great a friend to liberty as any man, said that to com- 



THIRD LECTURE. 145 

pare personal slavery with political slavery was a base im- 
posture ; they should not be mentioned in the same breath 5 
and there was no comparison whatever, between the thral- 
dom of the negro and that of the British community. 
Many are not laboring with us- because they do not pro- 
perly estimate their own value in society ; they are for 
leaving to somebody else with more riches, more power, 
and influence than themselves, forgetting that this is a per- 
sonal question, that all men are bound to labor in this 
vineyard ; that they can set an example to others ; and 
though they deplore their own insignificance, and. properly 
and laudably too ; though they think meanly of themselves, 
such thoughts ought not to hinder them from doing what 
they can, remembering that what they do may reprove sin 
in high quarters, and tend to promote the great work of 
negro emancipation. [Applause.] Therefore, I say, let 
no man keep back from an idea of the insignificance of 
what he can do in this cause, for, as the Westminster Re- 
view has justly observed, every sixpence given by an old 
woman to promote the emancipation of the negro creates 
a pang in the heart of the lordly West Indian. [Ap- 
plause.] 

Now, what is the mode of defence set up for the con- 
tinuance of West India slavery? — As they allege, slavery 
should not be touched with a hasty or inconsiderate hand, 
because it is a very ancient system. This is one of the 
arguments set up for its continuance ; but if crime were to 
be justified because it was of ancient origin, then we might 
vindicate murder on the very same principle, for every 
body knows that Cain was a murderer when he slew his 
brother Abel. But then, there is the scriptural argument 
for the system of slavery. The scriptural argument is 
drawn from these passages : 

* Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of 
them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat 
in your land: and they shall be your possession. And ye shall take them as 
an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession ; 
they shall be your bondmen forever; but over your brethren the children of 
Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with rigor. — Leviticus xx, 45, 46. 

These are the only passages quoted from the Old Testa- 
ment to show that slavery is not sinful; but let us take 
the general tenor of the Old Testament before we come to 
any decision on that point. I find the state of the argu 
13 



146 MR. THOMPSON S 

ment as drawn from the Old Testament to be briefly this ; — 
slavery was invariably, when sanctioned by Almighty God, 
a judicial punishment appointed by himself in consequence 
of the crimes of the people subjected to its rigor. This 
was invariably the case with regard to all the instances 
which had in the remotest degree the sanction of Heaven. 
I should enter more fully into this point if I had time and 
strength ; unfortunately I have neither ; but I assure this 
large and respectable auditory, that I have, at a very great 
sacrifice of comfort and personal health, been at consider- 
ble pains, since the gentleman mooted this argument, in 
tracing the history of slavery as given in the Old Testa- 
ment, and I am prepared to prove that the slavery of the 
Scriptures is invariably a judicial slavery, inflicted on na- 
tions and people who were doomed to death, and that in 
no one instance is man allowed, without the sanction of 
the Almighty, to seize upon his fellow man and reduce him 
to slavery. (Loud applause.) The gentleman will also find 
that in no one instance was it ever assumed, or ever acted 
upon, that continuance in slavery for any length of time, 
rendered the subjects of that system unfit for the enjoyment 
of liberty. Almost in every instance their Emancipation 
was instantaneous, whenever it was resolved that their 
crimes had been atoned for[; that when their right to lib- 
erty was acknowledged, it was never assumed, or acted 
upon, that their continuance in slavery presented any bar 
to their entrance into a state of liberty. Again, the gen- 
tleman will find that there is a great deal of difference be- 
tween prophecy and permission, between permission and 
sanction ; a crime prophesied is not therefore a crime sanc- 
tioned, — a crime permitted is not therefore a crime approv- 
ed. The gentleman alluded to certain prophecies regard- 
ing slavery, but I think that he will admit with me that 
the pre-annunciation of any crime is not the permission 
of that crime ; that the prophecy that Canaan should be 
cursed, and his children the slave of slaves, was no sanc- 
tion, no permission of that system of slavery which subse- 
quently came into operation. Again, the same Scriptures 
invariably record God's anger and indignation against all 
acts of cruelty and oppression, and direct that even in the 
enslavement of the Canaanites, the paramount doctrines of 
justice and mercy were to be observed, and in that very 



THIRD LECTURE. 147 

prophecy which has been alluded to, it is said that ven- 
geance belongs to God, and He will repay it. He will not 
allow mortal man to 

' Snatch from his hand the balance and the rod, 
Rejudge His justice — be the God of God.' 

It appears, therefore, that though man, in this instance, with 
the sanction of Almighty God, might enslave his fellow- 
man, as a commutation of the sentence of death passed 
upon him, he might not oppress him, he might not enslave 
others without such sanction, and tyranize over them from 
any inclination or motive of his own. 

Not only is the old Testament appealed to by the defend- 
ers of slavery, but recourse is had to the New Testament 
to vindicate the present system of slavery in the colonies. 
The silence of Christianity is pleaded, and the conduct of 
the Apostles is pleaded, as an extenuation, if not vindica- 
tion, of the continuance of slavery. 

It is sufficient for us to know that all the doctrines, all the 
principles, and the genius of Christianity, are inimical to 
the system of colonial slavery, and that the great funda- 
mental maxim of the Christian religion binds us to do unto 
others as we would that others should do unto us. (Ap- 
plause.) We are not to be guided simply by the precept 
that servants are to be obedient to their masters, without 
considering the reciprocal duties which masters owe to 
their servants. One injunction laid upon him who is struck 
on the right cheek is, that he turn his left also ; but surely 
the advice given to the smitten is no justification to the 
s?niter ! Neither is the precept given to the slave any 
justification to the master for holding his fellow-man in a 
state of slavery. (Loud applause.) Again, the danger of 
emancipation is insisted on as a reason for continuing to hold 
the slaves in bondage. I have endeavored to expose the 
fallacy of this argument, and to show that the danger is all 
on the other side. What danger can there be from infants? 
What danger can there be from women ? What danger can 
there be from the sick, the infirm, the aged ? What danger 
can there be from the Christianized negroes, or from those 
who, we are told, are satisfied with their condition, and at- 
tached to their masters by the ties of affection and grati- 
tude? The great danger arises from upholding a system 
of outrage and injustice ; the great danger arises from 
oppression ; the great danger arises from the continuance 



148 MR. THOMPSONS 

in a course of crime and impiety ; and, as I said before, 
the danger of doing wrong is always considered greater in 
a well-regulated mind, than the danger of doing right. 
[Applause.] 

Then there is the knotty question of compensation ; on 
this question I have only one word to say. My only ob- 
jection to. compensation is, that it should be mixed up with 
the measure of emancipation. I hold, most sacredly and 
seriously, that we should take into consideration the rights 
of the negro irrespective of the rights of the colonists ; that 
is, we should first consider the rights of 800,000 living 
human beings, and then consider the rights of the planters. 
I have no objection to compensation as an after consider- 
ation ; and as the gentleman on the other side stated that 
the planters only require compensation if it be found im- 
possible to obtain an equal amount of labor, under a free 
system, with that which was obtained under the slave 
system, I am quite willing to grant compensation to the 
full extent of that principle, whenever a loss can be made 
out before a committee of impartial individuals. (Ap- 
plause.) But, I fear, the true grounds of their opposition 
to us on this question are, — first, a love of power, inherit- 
ed and cherished by those connected with the West India 
system ; — and in the second place, it is very natural thai 
a body of men so powerful and respectable as the West In- 
dian body, should be extremely jealous and irritable with 
respect to any interference with what they consider their 
rightful and legitimate property ; from the number of con- 
flicting claims it is, therefore, evident that the planters 
cannot grant emancipation ; the merchants cannot grant 
emancipation ; the mortgagee cannot grant emancipation ; 
the overseers cannot grant emancipation ; and that nothing 
but a legislative measure on the subject, passed by the 
British Parliament, can settle this question. (Applause.) 

Now, if we can show that instead of our laws guarding 
the rights and liberties of the negroe, they absolute- 
ly deprive him of those rights and liberties, why then 
those laws are no laws to him,— they are unrighteous 
laws, and the slave, when he tramples them under his foot, 
behaves like an Englishman, — and he who gibbets him for 
it is a murderer and a felon. (Cheers and hisses.) I hear 
a hiss j what would the man who hisses, say if he were 



THIRD LECTURE. 149 

unjustly imprisoned, deprived of his liberty, his offspring 
and his life, by laws which never protected him ? (Cries 
of ' Serve him ricrht, turn him out.') If instead of turning 
him out you would turn him nearer, that we might see him, 
that we might learn who he is and where he lives, and 
who it is that pays him his wages on Saturday night. 
(Laughter and applause.) That we might know what he 
is made of. That we might look into his heart; we should 
find out who are our opponents, whether they deserve to 
be respected as lovers of their kind, or to be despised as 
men who would monopolize liberty to themselves, and deny 
it to the rest of the world. (Applause.) Paley, speaking 
ef the natural rights of men, says, 

' The natural rights of man are, a man's right to his life, limbs, and liber- 
ty; his right to the produce of his personal labor ; to the use, in common with 
others, of air, light, water. If a thousand different persons, from a thous- 
and different corners of the world were cast together upon a desert island, 
they would from the first be everyone entitled to these rights,' 

Is there any thing to hiss at here 1 Does not the man 
who hisses know that if he were in bondage we would plead 
his cause, we would ask liberty for him 1 Is it not as meri- 
torious to plead the cause of the African as it is to sympa- 
thize with the insulted and degraded Poles ? Should not 
the liberty of Africa be esteemed as much as that of Co- 
lumbia or Mexico ? What, then, is it our duty to do I 

I come back to the original object which I stated we had 
in view, which is the immediate and total abolition of co- 
lonial slavery. What do we mean by immediate 1 Why, 
that immediate steps should be taken for its abolition, in 
opposition to what is called gradual emancipation, which 
means no emancipation at all. If I told a builder to-night, 
to build mo a house immediately, should I expect to see the 
coping stones and chimneys up to-morrow morning ? No ; 
but I should expect to see him getting materials, laying the 
foundation, arranging the scaffolding, and going o,n, from 
day today, in the prosecution of the work. If a man were 
awoke in the night, and told to go immediately for a phy- 
sician, would he go without putting on his clothes? Would 
he transport himself by some magical effort to the place 
whither he was told to go immediately 1 No ! In like 
manner we would take the necessary steps to secure the 
abolition of slavery. Others would temporise, propose 
13* 



150 WK. TB(M»FSON ! SF 

modifications of the system, and do what they can to per- 
petuate it, ' Wait a little time,' say they ; never mind 
how mercy bleeds, or justice frowns, how the negro suffers, 
or the Englishman petitions, — do it gradually, yes, do it 
gradually. I wonder what they mean by gradually ? 
When will gradual emancipation arrive 1 I remember an 
anecdote told of Charles James Fox, who, when in power, 
was very deeply in debt; he had a secretary named Hare; 
and 'like master like man,' both were up to the ears in 
embarrassment. Mr, Fox looking one morning out at th© 
window saw coming up the street an old money-rending 
Jew, to whom both were indebted. 'Well, Solomon,' said 
he, ' what are you after this morning 1 Are you Fox-hunt- 
ing or Hare-hunting I ' Why, for the matter of that/ said 
the Jew, 'lam both Fox-hunting and Hare-hunting; I 
want both ; I want my money.' ' You must wait, Solo- 
mon,' said Mr. Fox. ' I cannot wait,' said the Jew ; ' I 
want my money : have I not a right to my money V ' Cer- 
tainly, Solomon ; you have a right to your money, Sol- 
omon — a most undoubted right, Solomon; but it is in- 
convenient to me to let you have it now ; you can call again, 
Solomon, come on such a day.' The Jew went accord- 
ingly, and again the answer was, — ' Wait, Solomon ; both 
Mr. Hare and myself are so deeply involved in business 
that we have not time to attend to the settlement of your 
account; — call again, Solomon.' Solomon went again, 
and still the answer was, ' Wait, Solomon.' ' I cannot 
wait,' said Solomon at last. ' I will not wait a day longer 
than your next appointment.' ' Well, then,' said Mr. Fox, 

* suppose we say, Solomon — the day of judgment, Solo- 
mon.' ' Oh !' said the Jew, ' that will be far too busy and 
important a day for the settlement of your account.' 

* well, then/ said Mr. Fox, still determined to be face- 
tious, ' suppose, Solomon, we say the day after V (Laugh- 
ter.) This is exactly the line of argument pursued by our 
friends on the opposite side — ' Wait till the day of judg- 
ment, — wait till the day after but don't do it now !' ' Why 
not do it now V ' Oh, there are the poor, the infirm, the 
old, and the young !' Well, are not the poor, the infirm, 
the old, and the young, provided for now? And would 
there not still be the same fund for their support, though 
it should come in another shape, and through another chan- 



THIRD LECTURE. 151 

nel? (Hear, hear.) Were the poor of England worse 
provided for when there were no poor laws, than they are 
now 1 Would it be worse for the planters to maintain the 
old, the infirm, and the young, than it is to maintain them 
now 1 Is there not wisdom enough in the British Parlia- 
ment to make some arrangement for the maintenance of 
these poor old men, and old women, and young children? 
Are the planters the only persons in the world who can 
give the negroes four parlors and a saloon, and carry them 
wine when they want it 1 

My friends, — We are warned to do this work ; every 
motive that can influence the human mind calls upon us 
to do it, to do it now, not to lose an hour in the performance 
of this solemn duty. If hurricanes or tornadoes could 
warn us, we have had them ; if insurrections and blood- 
shed could warn us, we have had them ; if the tremen- 
dous mortality amongst the negroes could warn us, that 
mortality is ever before our eyes ; if the depreciation of 
West Indian property could warn us, that depreciation we 
have seen and daily see ; and even whilst I speak a blight 
and mildew cover every part of the system, and nothing 
but retracing oursteps can bring back peace, security, and 
prosperity, to the colonies. (Loud applause.) 

Ladies and Gentlemen, — I will not longer take up your 
time to-night. The subject is not yet exhausted, though 
my strength is entirely gone. As I understand that the 
gentleman, who has already appeared twice before you, is 
again to address you, I may ask on his behalf what I asked 
on my own, that you will hear him patiently. If I myself 
offered him any interruption, when he last appeared before 
you, and when he alluded to the philanthropise gentleman 
* whose name is a synonyme for every thing that is noble in 
a British merchant and honorable in a man,' remember 
the impression which that statement was calculated to 
produce, had it gone forth from this platform uncontradict- 
ed and unexplained. It was said that I declined to lecture 
before that gentleman, when, if the truth had been told, it 
would have appeared that my sole objection to lecturing 
before a chairman of the West India body, an objection 
stated in the most handsome terms I could devise, was an 
apprehension of being compelled to say, in the course of 
my lecture, what might be thought to do violence to the 



152 

feelings of the chairman. (Applause.) As I came to 
Liverpool uninfluenced by any particular body, I thought 
I had a right to consult my own feelings on the sub- 
ject, and, therefore, I claimed, for the sake of my own 
feelings and those of the Chairman, that we might have 
a disinterested person in the chair. (Applause.) But 
when I found that persisting in such determination might, 
in the least degree, disturb the harmony between the two 
bodies, I instantly acceded to their wishes, and expressed 
my perfect willingness to lecture with Mr. Horsfall,or any 
other gentleman as Chairman on the occasion. (Cheers.) 
This led me to request that the letter might be read ; and 
as the letter was alluded to on this platform in a manner 
calculated to prejudice me in the opinion of the meeting, 
I think it might have been read in order that the auditory 
might be in possession of the facts. (Applause.) And I 
cannot but accuse the Chairman, on that occasion, of 
something like reservation in withholding that fact from 
the audience, when he well knew that it was not. from cow- 
a dice that I objected to lecture before him, but a regard 
for his own feelings as a gentleman, whom I honor from 
the character I have heard of him ; but I still say that to 
sit in that chair and not give the whole truth to the 
auditory, was an act of reservation which does little honor 
either to his head or his heart. (Cheers.) 

Ladies and Gentlemen, — I have now done ; I leave the 
cause in your hands. I believe our treaty with the West 
India body is nearly at an end. I have only further to say, 
hear patiently, judge candidly, consider deliberately, and 
then decide between us ; and say whether the arguments 
adduced for the continuance of slavery, or mine for its 
abolition, are the strongest. If mine, speak with one 
heart and with one voice, and declare it for ever at an 
end. 

Mr. Thompson concluded his address at a little after nine 
o'clock, amidst the loudest cheering and clapping of hands^ 
and the audience soon afterwards quietly separated. 



( 153 ) 



THE SUBSTANCE OF A LECTURE, 

Delivered Thursday evening, September 20th, 1832, in the 
Wesley an Chapel, Irwell Street, Salford, 31 anc /tester, 
(Eng.) by George Thompson, Esq. This Lecture was 
delivered, by Mr. Thompson soon after Mr. BorthwicJc, 
the Agent of the West Indian pro-slavery party, had 
puhlicly said that he would follow Mr. Thompson 'from 
place to place, like his evil genius' — hoivfar the intention 
of Mr. Borthwick was effected the residt of Mr. Thomp- 
son's labors fully demonstrate. 

On Thursday evening last, Mr. G. Thompson, who for 
the last three weeks has been zealously laboring in the 
cause of negro emancipation at Liverpool, delivered a 
lecture in the Wesleyan Methodist Chapel, Irwell-street, 
Salford. 

The lecture was announced to commence at seven 
o'clock. The admission was by tickets, for which there 
was an unprecedented demand. As early as five o'clock the 
doors were surrounded by a number of most respectable 
persons, and by half-past six the chapel was crowded by 
one of the most respectable auditories ever witnessed either 
in Manchester or Salford. We observed a considerable 
number of the Society of Friends present. At twenty 
minutes before seven Mr. Thompson was recognised walk- 
ing down the aisle, attended by several of his friends, 
and was greeted with enthusiastic cheers. A few min- 
utes before seven, W. Hill, Esq., the Boroughreeve, enter- 
ed, and was loudly cheered. Precisely at seven o'clock 
Mr. Thompson, accompanied by the Boroughreeve and 
Mr. Peter Clare, left the vestry and ascended the pulpit 
stairs. Mr. Thompson came to the front of the pulpit, 
bowed respectfully to the assembly, and was received with 
immense cheers, which lasted a considerable time. The 
Boroughreeve briefly introduced the lecturer, and express- 
ed a hope that during the evening there would be no de- 



154 LECTURE 

monstration of feeling inconsistent with the sacred charac- 
ter of the building in which they were assembled. 

Mr. Thompson said that it was with unfeigned gratifica- 
tion, though with very considerable fear, that he consented 
to present himself before so very large and respectable an 
assembly. His gratification was of a very "high order, be- 
cause the present was a strong proof that the interest 
which was awakened on the subject which was that night 
to engross their consideration, had not become by any 
means diminished, but seemed rather to have increased. 
He wished it might continue to be so. He wished that 
their zeal in so good a cause might continue to increase till 
victory was achieved, and that, as they proceeded in their 
career of mercy, they might leave behind them everything 
which would sully the honor and the character of the strug- 
gle in which they were engaged. He, for one, was more 
than ever convinced that the cause they advocated required 
none of the ordinary means of making it popular — none of 
the ordinary means of defending it — that it was quite suffi- 
cient to trust in the high and commanding principles which 
were involved in the discussion, and to rely on those views 
which truth, unmixed with any other quality, will bear to 
the mind, rather than connect it with personal considera- 
tions, and make this a conflict for victory in argument rath- 
er than a triumph of mercy over oppression. And he trust- 
ed that whilst on the one hand he should avoid all compro- 
mise of principle, he should on the other avoid the use of 
those weapons which in some cases might be legitimate 
and allowable, but which in this were perfectly unnecessary, 
because the subject, clad in its own character, would make 
a strong and effectual appeal to the heart. And if he did, 
when he last had the honor of appearing before an audi- 
tory in that place, under the influence of strong feeling, 
and from a conviction, which at the present time he must 
again express, that a most unhallowed and lawless — though 
he believed in the end it would prove to their own cause a 
most beneficial — attempt was in progress to retard the ac- 
complishment of the object dear to all his hearers — if with 
the knowledge of this fact, and being personally involved in 
the matter, he did give expression to feelings and senti- 
ments not perfectly necessary in the advocacy of the 
cause— Jet it be recollected that it required no ordinary 



AT SALFORD. 155 

measure of Christian charity and self-command to restrain 
the feelings and check the lips when upon the threshold 
of giving utterance to sentiments under which men are 
laboring — and when a cause based upon Christianity, and 
on whose side are enlisted all the attributes of humanity, 
was attacked by men who professed to have the same ob- 
ject in view with themselves, and who yet, at every step, 
were drawing deadly daggers and aiming them at the 
heart of their opponent. (Applause.) The present was 
a manifestation of friendship which was, he believed, never 
witnessed till the men who were the direct foes to the ob- 
ject which they had in view professed, when they were on 
the eve of effecting their object, to take the work out of their 
hands — and when it was accomplished, not by the ener- 
gies of those men but of themselves, would cheat them 
of their prize and appear before the world as the correctors 
of those evils which others had seen for years, and in try- 
ing to remove which they had been met at every step by 
the most determined opposition. 

Mr. Thompson afterwards stated the course which he 
intended to pursue in his lecture, and said that as his for- 
mer addresses had been directed to shew the general evils 
of colonial slavery — the situation and general character of 
the slave — the mode in which the system was upheld — by 
whom and by what variety of means it was sought to pal- 
liate its dreadful enormities ; so, as that might be the last 
time he should have the honor of delivering an address in 
Manchester, he should wish now to do something in the 
way of summing up the question, by bringing, very concise- 
ly and briefly, before his auditory the principal evils which 
were embodied in the system, to show that not only the 
general idea of slavery was bad, but that by taking it to 
pieces and examining its particular parts they might see 
it was altogether evil — that from the crown of the head to 
the sole of the foot the monster was nothing but wounds, 
and bruises, and putrifying sores. (Applause.) 

Slavery, and particularly such slavery as was, to be found 
in the West Indies, cursed the soil upon which it existed, 
and almost inevitably, wherever it had obtained, whether 
in our dominions or in the dominions of other powers, had 
produced barrenness and sterility, and prevented nature 
from bringing forth her fruits in that measure which other- 



156 LECTURE 

wise she would, had the course pursued to obtain them 
been equitable and just. And how did this result ? The 
people of England had pursued a course of conduct at once 
the most unjust and at once the most absurd, in making 
it exceedingly desirable for the West Indian planter to 
send, at all hazards, as much sugar into this market as the 
ground could possibly create. So fond, indeed, were we 
of slavery, that we did not grudge some millions and a 
half of pounds yearly, in the way of direct bounty, to foster 
a system under which women were flogged, children were 
doomed to slavery from the womb, and to every description 
of evil by which they could be degraded and destroyed. He 
begged to direct attention to the main argument used to de- 
lude the public into a notion that they who were endeavor- 
ing to thwart the efforts of the anti-slavery society, were the 
best friends of the negro, and that they only held them in 
bondage to nurture and prepare them for that liberty to 
which it was their desire to introduce them. If this argu- 
ment was sincere, how did it apply to the infant? Was he 
not fit for freedom when he came into the world? Must 
a child be trained in slavery in order to enjoy the bliss of 
liberty? Was that either a human or a rational course? 
What had the infant done that even before he came into the 
world a price was put upon him to render the mother of 
greater value, and that, from the hour he came into this 
breathing world, he is consigned to slavery bounded only 
by that place where the wicked cease from troubling and 
the weary are at rest. (Applause.) On their own shew- 
ing, he claimed liberty for every infant that breathed. 
(Loud applause.) The argument of unfitness could not 
apply to them, and the man who took the infant from its 
mother's breast, and giving it to another to be fed or suckled, 
then drove it to work for his profit, his ease or his aggran- 
disement, under the infliction of stripes that mercy wept 
to see inflicted on a beast, — such a man was not a whit bet- 
ter than he who took his ship to the western shores of 
Africa and burdened it with the wretched villagers whom 
this dastardly planter, knowing nothing of the perils and 
toils thus sustained, bought and labored in the colonies. 
(Applause.) Thus were they told that they must not re- 
mit the negro beeause he was unfit for freedom, and yet 
they were daily introducing them into that state which dis- 



AT SALFORD. 157 

qualified them from being useful members of society. 
They incurred an awful responsibility, and his auditors 
partook of it if they were concerned in taking men from the 
land of their birth, and consigning them to the influ- 
ence of a system which almost forbad improvement, and 
which never did and never could qualify them for any of the 
duties or the real and proper pursuits of life. See, (ex- 
claimed the lecturer,) yon tottering slave on the margin of 
the grave, about for ever to sink from the sight of mortal, 
and to enter upon that state where no change, as regards 
character, can be possibly achieved. He is now sunken 
in vice, exhausted and diseased in body, and knowing not, 
perhaps, whether a God reigns; he plunges, almost in the 
dark into that world where man shall be introduced into 
the presence of a heart-searching judge. What reason is 
there to believe that that man might not have been an use- 
ful, perhaps an ornamental, member of society 1 (Ap- 
plause.) He might have been trained to embellish the age 
in which he lived, and the world of which he had been 
an inhabitant — he might have risen to honor and independ- 
ence, and achieved a deathless name ! But see him as he 
is — degraded and despised, reduced to the level ofthe brute, 
he dies unpitied, and the curtain closes upon his historj'. 
(Applause.) 

But it was said that the mother did not regard her off- 
spring — that for her it might pine in neglect, or fall a vic- 
tim to the absence Gf maternal sympathy, whilst in truth 
the mother was driven to the field to labor, when with ths 
fondness of a parent she should have been rearing her in- 
fant for useful life. How, he asked, did they prove their 
assertion ? Would a British audience believe it, upon the 
mere ipse dixit ofthe advocate of a wicked cause. Did 
the raven feed its young, the tigress care for its offspring, 
and all the irrational creation, with k\v exceptions, invaria- 
bly look with anxiety and care to those whom they brought 
into existence, and should it be said that the negro mother 
cared not for her innocent babe ? But if she did not, 
rather than they should be consigned to the tender mercies 
of a planter, an attorney, an overseer, or a driver, cast them 
on the bounty of Eternal Providence, and let him who 
sees the sparrow when it falls — let him who hears the ra- 
ven when it cries — let him who numbers the hairs even 
14 



158 LECTURE 

on the negro's head take up the child when father and 
mother forsook it, and let it live for ever on the care of that 
omniscient Being. (Loud and continued applause.) Slav- 
ery, he contended, depressed the body, whilst it withheld 
from the mind of the negro all the ordinary motives to in- 
citement. Those by whom he was surrounded knew the 
thousand claims which they had upon their exertions, and 
the various demands that were made upon them. They 
had their wives and children dependent upon them, they 
looked to the product of their labor for character, and hoped 
by means of it, to ascend to wealth and honor, and, after the 
vigor of their days had passed to retire to affluence and 
ease. Ask the trader (continued Mr. Thompson) why he" 
labors — why he rises early and retires late, and eats the 
bread of carefulness. It is because he perceives in after 
years a comfortable subsistence for himself, and because 
he hopes to provide for his offspring, and to leave them 
some means of stepping beyond the limit to which he had 
been born. Ask the sailor why he ploughs the trackless 
main — it is that he may achieve a conquest over his coun- 
try's foes, and return to receive the hard-earned tribute of 
honor and reward, and retiring to the bosom of his family, 
go at last from this busy world to one of peace, security, 
and love. Ask the author why he labors, and he will tell 
you that he hopes to have his name recorded amongst the 
celebrated of his age. As"k the statesman why he labors — 
ask any free man why he labors, and you find that neces- 
sity of some description is laid on him sufficiently strong 
to induce him to undertake it, and sufficiently powerful 
to support him in its performance. But ask the slave why 
he toiled, and he challenged his opponent to prove that 
he was under the influence of one of these motives. 

Mr. Thompson asserted, upon the authority of Mr. 
Stephen, that the negro was worked sixteen hours and forty 
minutes in the day. He contended that among the other 
evils incident to his lot were the facts that slavery entailed 
on its unhappy victims all imaginable suffering — that the 
slave was doomed to the torture of the cart-whip, the collar 
and chains, the field stocks, the picketing of St. Lucia, 
the block and tackle of Jamaica — that slavery annihilated 
the population engaged in it — that the negro was doomed 
to laws, arbitrary in their character and wickedly adminis- 



AT SALFORD. 159 

tered — that ignorance was the inseparable attendant of 
bondage — that his subjection destroyed the self-respect of 
the slave, and all consequent moral purity — that on the other 
hand it raised in the breasts of the planters a spirit of pride 
and arrogance, and even destroyed the softness of the fe- 
male character — that the treatment they endured, engen- 
dered in the slaves revenge and all other base passions — 
that slavery endangered the existence of society, and gave 
rise to conspiracy, rebellion and assassination, and that, 
above all, it drew upon those engaged in it the wrath of 
that God whose laws were thus trampled upon. 

That slavery endangered the safety of every community 
in which it existed; we had, he said, a proof in America. 
Let them look at the planters of Virginia, Georgia, South 
Carolina, and other States. They would find that the 
owners of slaves were sometimes obliged to sleep in their 
houses with a number of negro infants around them lest 
the parents should set fire to their dwellings. (Hear.) 
Should any power desire to attack America, what more 
had they to do than to arm the negroes, and lift up the 
standard of liberty among their habitations. They would 
thus have planted in the heart of their dominions a system 
fatal to their independence. The opening words of their 
declaration of independence were, that all men were equal 
in the sight of God, and that to deprive a man of his liberty 
was one of the foulest crimes of which another could be 
guilty. (Applause.) This free and independent people 
had two millions of slaves, and from five to six hundred 
thousand free people of color, men as deserving as any of 
their pale-faced tyrants, and yet were they scouted and re- 
pudiated wherever, they bent their steps. So much for 
freedom — so much for patriotism — so much for reform, a 

term which always meant j^fuiiii uf our neighbors and 

never reform of ourselves. (Cheers.) This was the love 
of liberty which meant liberty to do what pleases ourselves, 
but let nobody else do as he likes. This was the liberty 
of our brother Jonathan, (Laughter,) and this was the li- 
berty of his father, John Bull. (Laughter.) Woithy son 
of a worthy sire! Both must put this abomination from 
among them, if they would justify their boasted loveof liberty 
before the world, and purge themselves from the stain which 
slavery had brought upon them. Slavery hated the light — 



160 LECTURE 

slavery hated the truth — slavery hated knowledge and re- 
ligion. Who would deny that slavery loved darkness — 
that it loved ignorance, that it sought concealment. Light 
would expose its enormities — would make it blush — reli- 
gion would denounce it, and reason held it up to the uni- 
versal execration of mankind. (Applause.) 

But it was said that the planters loved religion. They 
shewed it by pulling down ehapels* — they shewed it by pun- 
ishing missionaries — they shewed it by desecrating the Sab- 
bath — by snapping all the ties of moral law, and rejecting 
all the provisions of the gospel. Yet did they love religion ; 
and it was proved by their union, in Jamaica, to sweep every 
sectarian from the island. He had heard that persons 
afflicted with a certain species of mania always killed those 
whom they loved best. (Applause.) The planters laugh- 
ed at religion— they banished the missionaries— they de- 
molished the churches, and desecrated the altars of God, 
and they, therefore, were mad. He hoped, in pity, that 
they were, and if they did not deserve to be in the dun- 
geons of the New Bailey, the best place for them was a lu- 
natic asylum. (Applause.) But it had been said that the 
missionaries were interested, that they were cobblers and tai- 
lors in their own country, and that they left ^30 a-year here, 
for £^d0 abroad. And, if they had £2250 it would not 
compensate them. It would not repay them for the burn- 
ing sun — the wasting toils— the rending anxieties— for the 
scorn and contumely, with which they were treated — for 
the premature and inglorious graves into which many of 
them were buried — and for the pangs inflicted on their 
Christian and their faithful hearts. (Loud cheers.) They 
had been told, too, that if they were the disinterested per- 
sons whom they were represented, they should go to the 

Wilds of Africa, and amidet ite deoerto axid Dando cliuuJd in-» 

culcate the divine truths which they preached in the isl- 
ands. And so they did— on the banks of the Gambia 
they were found, long ago, striving in the great cause to 
which they were devoted, and finding a grave upon the 
banks of that far-famed river. With all the perils of the 
task, palpable to them, did these holy men set forth, from 
their native land, to preach the gospel of redemption to the 
oppressed people of those climes ; but the earth had not 
made its revolution round the sun — -the seasoa bad not 



AT SALFORD. 161 

gone by, ere, in Western Africa, their remains were gather- 
ed to their fathers, and their spirits went to their reward. 
(Loud applause) They were to be found with the Lap- 
lander midst his snows — if they would go to the plains of 
Hindostan they would find them there, striving to stay the 
rolling car of Juggernaut — to stop the misguided hand of 
a parent who was about to offer an unoffending victim, in 
penitence for an imaginary wrong — they might be seen 
snatching the infant from the waters of the Ganges, or 
tearing it from the jaws of the crocodile. In the temple 
of the Brahmin, in the hut of the negro, in the wigwam 
of the Australian — north, east, south and west, they might 
be found, to convict their libellers of falsehood, of irreligion, 
and of impiety. (Long-continued plaudits.) Mr. Thomp- 
son contended that the slave-system caused, as they Knew, 
an absence of sympathy between England and her colo- 
nies — that it washer se instable — that in every way it was 
impolitic — that it was a possitive infraction of the consti- 
tution, and that it was based in cowardice. For where did 
we seek our slaves ; did we go among the warlike people 
of the earth, or did we not rather select the most grateful — 
the most peaceable race, thus rendering those very attri- 
butes which should constitutes a claim to our regard, and 
induce us to throw over them the shield of our power — in- 
citements to our cupidity. 

Mr. Thompson then observed : — 

There is one branch of this momentous question to which 
I desire to draw your serious attention : — 

1st. Because it has been made the foundation of a de- 
fence of slavery as it now exits in our dominions. 

2nd. Because it appeals to the feelings of that portion of 
the community which, above all others, I am desirous of 
seeing among the friends of negro emancipation. 

3rd. Because it involves the high consideration, wheth- 
er unto us belongs a discretionary power to act towards 
our fellow-men as we are now acting towards our colonial 
bondsmen ; and 

4th. Because it affects the honor and equity of that 
Being ' who doeth according to his will in the army of 
Heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth.' 

That part of the subject is this; the abstract sinfulness 
of holding men in jjcrsonal thraldom. In other words, can 

14* 



162 LECTURE 

any circumstances justify men in holding their fellow-men 
in slavery, without incurring guilt hy so doing ? I answer, 
yes ; and the existence or non-existence of certain circum- 
stances creates the justification, or occasions the guilt of 
the man-stealer or the slave-holder. When such circum- 
stances are present he \s justified. When they are absent 
he is guilty. It is argued, by an advocate on the other side, 
that slavery in the abstract is not sinful ; that is to say, 
to steal a man, and hold him in bondage, is not prima facie 
a sin. I humbly and submissively contend that it is a sin 
so to do, and I will proceed to give my reasons : — ' To the 
law and to the testimonity.' • In the beginning God 
created the heavens and the earth ;' and when he had 
beautified the heavens and adorned the earth, he said, ' Let 
us make man in cur image, after our likeness; and let 
him have dominion over the fish of the tea, and over the 
fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, 
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the 
earth.' ' And it was so ;' for the * Lord God formed man 
out of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nos- 
trels the breath of life; and man became a living soul/ 
Then started into being that avjful — that mysterious — 
that inexplicable compound Man — that masterpiece of the 
creation. Man ! — erect — rational — pure — immortal Man I 
— Man ! the lord of the creation — the monarch of the 
world — the favorite of heaven — the possessor of a death- 
less spirit — the heir of an eternal destiny. Was he then 
a slave? No ! not even to Deity itself ; he held the migh- 
ty power to eternize his being and his bliss ; or bring into 
the fair and spotless world of heaven's munificence the 
monster death and all imaginable woe. He fell—- freely he 
fell. Behold him where he lies ; a noble pile in ruins ! 
Yet survey those ruins ; how costly — how magnificent — 
how imperishable are the fragments ! That He might with 
those fragments build himself a living temple, the Archi- 
tect of the universe did not withhold his Son, — His only 
Son — but gave him up up to death that he might lay in Zion, 
for a foundation, a a stone — a chief corner-stone, elect 
and precious to give stability, and life and eternal dura- 
tion to the fabric of his everlasting love. Oh ! 

How poor, how rich, how abject, how august, — 
How complicate, how wonderful, is Man ! 



AT SALFORD. 163 

Distinguish'd link in being's endless chain ! 
Midway from nothing to the Deity ! 
A beam etherial sully'dandabsorpt ! 
Though sully'd and dishonor'd, still divine ! 
What can preserve his life 1 — or what destroy 7 
An angel's arm can't snatch him from the grave; 
Legions of angels can't confine him there. 

Such a being is Man, find him where you may ; however 
rude, however wretched, of whatever color, of whatever 
clime — a being born for immortality — as precious in the 
sight of heaven and in the covenant of grace, as the fairest 
among the sons of men, though he should centre in him- 
self the learing of a Johnson and the genius of a Milton — 
and the philosophy of a Bacon and the imagination of a 
Shakspeare, — a being who may soar as high in heaven, 
and who will live as long in eternity as the proudest and 
ivisest of the children of men. 

But to return to the argument before us ; the commands 
of God touching the enslavement of any member of the 
human family are explicit. 1st. ' Thou shalt not steal.' 
This command, which has reference to all descriptions of 
robbery, must include the stealing of men, which is univer- 
sally allowed to be the worst description of robbery that 
can be committed. 2d. ' Thou shalt not covet thy neigh- 
bour's house, wife, man-servant, maid-servant, ox, ass, nor 
any thing that is thy neighbor's.' Now I ask — is there be- 
longing to a man any thing more precious than his own per- 
son, his own liberty? and if the desire to possess the house, or 
ox, or ass of our neighbor be sinful, is it not equally so, nay, 
more so, to covet his life his limbs, his wife, and his child- 
em 1 3rd. In Exodus 21st, 6th, we read ' He that steal- 
etli a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand 
he shall surely be put to death.' We see here in what 
estimation the Almighty held the crime of stealing men. 
Again, Deut. 24th., 7 v., ' If a man be found stealing any 
of his brethren of the children of Israel, and maketh mer- 
chandise of him, or selleth him, then that thief shall die : and 
thou shalt put away evil from among you.' Maimonidcs, 
Jarchi, and the Mishnie Doctors, interpret these laws in 
their strictest sense ; with regard to the latter one, they say, 
that in the term ' brethren of the children of Israel,' are 
included the old and the young, the male and the female ; 



164 LECTURE 

the Israelite and the Jewish proselyte ; and 'making mer- 
chandise,' as using a man against his will, as a servant 
lawfully purchased, yea, though he should use his services 
only to the value oi a farthing, or use but his arm to lean 
upon or support him, if he be forced so to act as a servant, 
the person compelling him but once to do so, shall die as a 
a thief, whether he has sold him or not. These passages, 
I think, clearly point out to us what should be our conduct 
under ordinary circumstances. They teach us that we are 
not to steal at all, not to covet at all, and that the stealing 
of men, the making merchandise of men, the forcing of men 
to serve against their will, are crimes considered worthy 
of death. The passage so often quoted, to prove that 
slavery is not sinful, is to be found in the 25th of Leviticus, 
from the 39th to the 46th verses, inclusive. It is, however, 
upon the 45th and 46th verses that the argument is prin- 
cipally built; they read thus : — 

* Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of 
them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat 
in your land: and tliey shall he your possession. And yes-hall take them as 
an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession; 
they shall be your possession ; they shall be your bondmen forever; hut over 
your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with 
rigor. 

In reference to this passage I would observe, that, to 
me, it appears highly probable that the expression, ' for 
ever,' in the text before us, does not apply to the tondmen 
here spoken of individually , but collectively : as the tenth 
verse seems to promise liberty to all, both Jew and Gen- 
tile, at the year of Jubilee. 

* And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty ihrorghcut all 
the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof; and ye shall return e\ery man 
unto his possession, and je shall return every man unto his family.' 

From this passage I infer, that, although the Jews were to 
be permitted to obtain bondmen from among the strangers 
who sojourned in the land during the continuance, of the 
Mosaic dispensation, yet at the year of general redemption 
those who had been reduced to active service were to 
share the benefit of the proclamation, leaving the Israelites 
to supply their places by others, who, there is no doubt, 
might be obtained without any difficulty. Let us for a 
moment look at this slavery. 

1st. Who were the ' heathen round about 1 ' ' the Strang- 



AT SALFORD. 165 

ers who sojourned in the land ? ' They were remnants of 
nations, who had filled up the measure of their iniquity, 
and against whom the wrath of God was therefore revealed, 
even ' unto death? 

2d. They were the inhabitants of a land promised for 
many centuries to the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and 
Jacob. A land that was to be purged from the pollution of 
idolatry, and the most abounding profligacy, and become 
the theatre of the most stupendous events; and be pecu- 
liarly characterised by ' Holiness to the Lord.' 

3d. The bond service to which they were subjected 
was almost, in all respects, perfectly dissimilar to the de- 
grading slavery which now prevails in the West Indies. 
In the majority of instances being only the payment of 
tribute, leaving them at liberty to avail themselves of every 
just means of acquiring wealth ; and only preventing them 
from becoming possessors of the soil which God had given 
to his ' peculiar people.' Purchased servants were to be 
treated with especia kindness, and seem, in most cases, to 
have been a superior order of dependants. Hired servants 
appear to have been among the meanest of those who bore 
the name of servants among the heathen, and were gener- 
ally employed as hewers of wood, and drawers of water, 
or, in other words, as the bearers of burdens — persons en- 
gaged in the lowest occupations. 

4th. Their treatment as servants was to be invariable 
distinguished by kindness ; maltreatment entitled them to 
instant release ; the Sabbath was theirs; the court of the 
Gentiles was theirs; the way of access to all the bene- 
fits temporal and spiritual of the Jewish religion was 
theirs; as heathens, they were to be treated with uniform 
justice and tenderness ; as proselytes or converts, in all 
respects as brethren. I might, if I had time, and it were 
necessary, fully show you from the inspired volume, that, 
so far from magnifying the comforts and privileges of the 
bond servants, under the Mosaic economy, I have very 
much curtailed the list of their advantages. I might 
quote the laws which bound the Israelites, under the heav- 
iest penalties, to observe a course of kindness to the slaves ; 
I might specify the arrangements made for their instruction 
and conversion. I might enumerate the threatnings and 
denunciations of God against their oppressors, when they 



166 LECTURE. 

had any, and then, also, the execution of those threats in 
a variety of awful and premonitory instances ; but I for- 
bear, and earnestly reccommend all present to peruse with 
care the first five books of the Old Testament, and mark 
what is written respecting ' strangers/ ' strangers within 
the gate ,' in contra-distinction to casual visitors, — stran- 
gers that sojourn amongst you,' — servants and bond- 
men,' for under these five denominations are, I believe, 
included all the bond-servants among the Hebrews, save 
those of their own nation. 

5th. Having noticed the source from whence the Jews 
obtained their slaves — and the mode of treatment to 
which they weie subjected, I proceed to observe that this 
institution was by direct appointment of the Almighty, 
and appears to have been a commutation of a sentence of 
death originally pronounced upon the Canaanitish and 
Philistine nations, the previous possessors of the soil' — 
let this be well remembered — the Divine head of the Jew- 
ish Theocracy, appointed, permitted, regulated, slavery. 
He was the God and Father and Legislator of the people 
of Israel. The God also of the heathen round about, 
though they knew him not — nor feared his name — re- 
member, too, that he is a being above all law, save those 
eternal rules which are inseparable from his nature, that 
He is the source of law to the universe, that revealed 
codes are for man and not for God — and then, I think, you 
will perceive that slavery might exist among the Jews, and 
yet not furnish us with an example to he followed, nor do 
any thing towards establishing our right to be the holders 
of slaves. The appointment of slavery by God is one of 
the circumstances which justifies slaver) — but the mo- 
ment the sanction of God is withdrawn, lire authority of 
man is at an end, and he is left to regulate his moral con- 
duct by the revealed law, every violation of which is an 
offence against his Creator. 

6th. It does not appear that, to man was given a discretion- 
ary power to bring into bondage any portion of his fellow 
men — on the contrary — the most fearful punishments are 
assigned to those who are guilty of any infraction of the 
law in that respect. Had such a discretionary power been 
ever given — in the day when it was so given, the moral law 
would have been in effect annulled. In all cases, howev 



AT SALFORD. 167 

er, the Jews were but agents, instruments, and ministers 
of vengeance in the hands of the Almighty, and were re- 
peatedly chastised for assuming and exercising a power 
not delegated to them by their Supreme Head. The Jews, 
however, were showing their obedience as much in the de- 
struction of the Canaanites as in the offering of appointed 
sacrifices — in the observance of arrangements regarding 
slavery, as in the performance of any religious service en- 
joined upon them. But what is the use made of the fact, 
that God commanded the enslavement of the Canaanitish 
nations ? It is this— that therefore slavery is not sinful in 
the abstract, and therefore we may hold men in slavery 
and be guiltless. See, for a moment, where this would lead 
us. It would lead to the conclusion that the judgments 
and punishments which God has at any time commanded 
and authorised his own special people, his avowed and 
recognised servants, to inflict upon nations and individu- 
als, may, in strict conformity with religion and morality, be 
inflicted by men upon their fellow-men at any time — at 
any place, and without any such authority or command. 
By the decree of the Mast High, a father was command- 
ed to sacrifice his son — Elijah was empowered to slay the 
false prophets, and the Israelites were enjoined to put to 
death some, and to enslave others of the idolatrous people 
whom they conquered in war, and, therefore, we have a 
moral and religious right to do any or similar things, with- 
out any similar warrant, sanction, or authority. Excellent 
logic ! Excellent theology! To contend that the en- 
slavement of men is not sinful from the circumstance of 
its having been permitted by God, in the case argued, is 
unreasonable, unscriptural, impious, and blasphemous. 

Were the negroes of Western Africa in the same cir- 
cumstances as the Canaanites? 

Is the slavery in the West Indies like the slavery among 
the Jews ? It is absurd and wicked to denote the two con- 
ditions by the same term. When light becomes darkness, 
and kindness becomes cruelty, and justice and mercy, in- 
justice and oppression, then name them together, and not 
before, unless you be found guilty of upholding an abom- 
ination by the prostitution of the word of God. 

Is Africa a land promised to us for a possession, and are 
we commanded to drive out and utterly destroy its inhabi- 
tants, ? 



168 LECTURE 

Has West India slavery the sanction of the Almighty ? 

Can we demonstrate our right to exercise a discretion- 
ary power of enslaving our fellow-men ? 

If British colonial slavery was wrong in its commence- 
ment, can we show at which event, in the series connect- 
ing the first seizure with the present possession, the change 
from wrong to right took place ? If, however, it is admit- 
ted that colonial slavery was wrong in its commencement, 
and is still an evil and a sin, what becomes of the ' ab- 
stract view,' and from the deductions made from it? If it 
be argued that it must be done gradually — where is the 
scriptural proof? 

Did God ever keep men in slavery to prepare them for 
freedom ? Do not the Oracles of God declare, ' Live 
peaceably with all men. Revenge not yourselves, but 
rather give place unto wrath : for it is written, Vengeance 
is mine: I will repay it saith the Lord 1 ' Are we, then, to 
put ourselves on an equality with God ? Shall we 

Snatch from his hand the balance and the rod, 
Rejudge his justice, be the God of God 1 

Let these questions be pondered, let them be answered 
in the fear of God, and in reference to eternity. 

I will not detain you — I might say, insult you, after the 
addresses I have already delivered in this town, by going 
into the views of Christianity on this subject. You require 
no proof to-night that the religion of Christ is a religion 
of love, and that it never has, it never can, sanction for a 
moment, so foul, so inhuman, so impious, and murderous 
a system as that of British West India Slavery. 

Mr. Thompson then proceeded to expose the various 
contradictions of his opponents, — proved the absolute ne- 
cessity of immediate emancipation — congratulated the 
meeting upon the view recently taken of the question by 
the leading daily journals in London, read a very power- 
ful leading article from the Morning Chronicle, of Satur- 
day, the 13th instant (which will be found at the conclu- 
sion of this outline,) and conclued as follows: — 

And now I would humbly, but earnestly, call upon all 
present to join in this work of mercy, and labor of love. 

Christian Ministers ! I call first upon you ; ye are 



AT SALFORD. 169 

ambassadors for God — your God is a God of love, your 
mission a mission of mercy, your message a message of 
salvation — 

By you the violated law speaks out 

Its thunders, and by you, in strains as sweet 

As angels use, the gospel whispers peace. 

In the name of the law, which, by slavery, is dishonored, 
violated, and trampled in the dust ; in the name of the 
gospel, whose precepts and provisions are by slavery and its 
abettors despised and rejected ; in the name of that God 
- — the giver of that law, and the author and finisher of that 
gospel of salvation — I call upon you to denounce this evil, 
to lift up your voice against it, to cry aloud and spare not 
until it ceases to ' make merchandise of the bodies and 
the souls of men,' 

Philanthropists! — lovers of mankind — I call upon you, 
ye who would raise the fallen, cheer the faint, who would 
lessen the amount of human wretchedness, who would 
wipe the weeping eye and gladden the sinking heart, who 
would that our wide-spread race should be a family of love 
— join us in the cause of humanity: Oh, weep with the 
wretched mother who may not call her offspring her own ; 
Oh, sympathise with those whom a cruel system would put 
beyond the pale of our constitution and our faith ; let your 
best energies be given to this holy undertaking, nor slacken 
your endeavors until mercy shall prevail over cruelty, jus- 
tice triumph over oppression and tyranny, and the lovely 
isles of the west, after ages and centuries of murder, op- 
pression, and woe, shall become the abode of the happy 
and free peasant, and reverberate with the song of glad- 
ness, and the praises of the true and living God. 

Patriots ! Ye who love your country, to whom its honor, 
its character and independence are dear, unite with us to 
rid our beloved country from this foul curse ; let not any 
portion of its greatness rest upon the degradation of its 
children ; talk not of victory while this conquest remains 
to be achieved ; boast not of our constitution whilst its 
benefits are withheld from the negro; let heroes seek for 
laurels upon the ensanguined plain, ' let others strive to 
exalt their country's greatness by advancing the arts, and 
adding to our stock of scientific knowledge, do ye unite 
15 



170 LECTURE 

with us to win a bloodless triumph over your country's worst 
f oes — the avarice, the despotism and impiety that would 
sink a nation's fame, and bring upon it the wrath of God, 
to gratify a lust of power, and add to the unhallowed 
wealth of the tormentor of his species. 

I look around me, and I see many belonging to that com- 
munity whose religious profession amounts almost to a 
pledge of devotion to this glorious cause. Need I say any 
thing to stimulate your zeal, and dispose you to act 
worthy your name and connexion ; need I remind you of 
the struggles, the sacrifices and disinterested ardor of the 
Friends of past ages, and of the noble endeavors making 
by many amongst you at the present hour ? No ; I would 
fain believe that there is not one Friend here who is not 
self-devoted to the cause of negro emancipation. But still, 
suffer me to remind you, with all possible respect and love, 
that the present is a moment demanding even more than 
wonted zeal. I implore you, by the memory of a Wool- 
man, and a Benezet, and every champion of this hallowed 
cause now gathered to his fathers, to aid us at the present 
juncture, with the full measure of your sympathy, your 
exertions, and your influence — so shall you see the dearest 
object of your hearts accomplished, and, instead of still 
mourning over the unredressed wrongs of an injured popu- 
lation, see peace and piety, and intellectual improvement, 
extending to the many colored tribes of the west, and the 
fruits of virtue, and knowledge, and religion appearing 
where only ignorance, and vice, and cruelty once reigned. 

Come, then, ye lovers of peace — ye votaries of mercy 
— complete the work begun in ages past, by your uncom- 
promising forefathers, and soon shall the shouts of ransom- 
ed thousands proclaim the field your own, and the sable 
child of your adoption, trampling on the rusting chains of 
his degradation, exclaim with beaming eye and with a 
bursting heart, ' NOW I am a man and a brother.' 

Christians! I look with confidence towards you ; yours 
is a religion of love, a religion of liberty; you know that 
the love of Christ in your own bosoms expands them to 
embrace all mankind, — you desire 'that the word of the 
Lord may have free course and be glorified, even as it is 
with you;' you know that < righteousness exalteth a na- 
tion, but sin is a reproach to any people ; ' you know that 



AT SALFORD, 171 

' to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the 
fat of rams ; ' you know that it is written, ' If thou forbear 
to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that 
are ready to be slain ; if thou sayest, Behold we knew it 
not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? 
and he that keepeth thy soul, doth he not know it? and 
shall he not render to every man according to his works ? ' 
Unite, then, with us to rid the nation and the earth of 
their most foul and guilt-contracting blot ; let the remem- 
brance of demolished temples, their ruins still upon the 
earth — of desecrated altars — of banished missionaries — of 
thousands of meek disciples of Christ, persecuted for their 
attachment to the truths of Christianity — let these recol- 
lections act upon your hearts, your consciences, your 
hands, your heads, and in your families, and in your con- 
gregations, and in the world be the champions of the dis- 
tressed — despised, and almost destroyed — so shall the 
blessing of those who are ready to perish come upon you, 
and God, even your own Gon shall cause his face to shine 
upon you, and his richest consolations to inhabit your 
hearts. 

And now, I ask, in this solemn hour, in this sacred 
place, upon this spirit-stirring and most interesting occa- 
sion — who in this assembly is willing to consecrate his 
service this night unto the Lord? Let all who feel the 
claims of human misery pressing upon their hearts, who 
wish to see the monster slavery expire beneath the hand of 
British Christian benevolence ; let all who have trust in 
the omnipotence of truth, and confidence in the God of 
everlasting love ; let all who now desire, and pray for, and 
would effectuate the instant, total, and eternal overthrow 
of the accursed system, and are waiting to build upon its 
ruins a temple of harmony, concord, peace and love, wit- 
ness these their wishes and intentions, before heaven 
and the world, by holding up their hands. [The call was 
instantly responded to, and a forest of hands was uplifted.] 

'Tis done, 'tis seen, it will be known, it will be record- 
ed in heaven, and on earth ; 'tis wise ; 'tis well so to re- 
solve — 'tis still better to act on such resolutions. Patriots ! 
Philanthropists ! Christians of every name ! Ministers of 
God ! we are now one — this night beholds the renewal of 
our pledge, to wage a war of extermination with cruelty, 



172 LECT¥RE 

rice, and despotism in their strong hold. 'In the name of 
our God, let us set up our banner,' and inscribe upon it, 
' Fiat justitia ruat coelum.' With this above our heads, 
let us proceed onwards to the battle — victory shall sit upon 
our helm, heaven shall smile upon our host, conquest shall 
crown our struggle, and mankind in future ages shall point 
to the abolition of colonial slavery, as the commencement 
of an era the most benign and brilliant the world has ever 
seen. 

Mr. Thompson concluded his energetic, eloquent, and 
convincing adddress at a quarter past nine, amidst the en- 
thusiastic plaudits of an enraptured audience. Through- 
out the whole of Mr. Thompson's lengthened observations, 
the most profound and breathless attention was manifest- 
ed, interrupted only by the involuntary bursts of applause 
which the more splendid and heart-stirring portions of his 
able speech called forth. One feeling only seemed to per- 
vade the vast assembly, and that, a feeling of hallowed de- 
votion to the godlike cause of negro civilization and re- 
demption. A deep conviction seemed to rest upon all, that 
the hour had arrived — an hour too long delayed- — for the 
opening of the prison doors of the oppressed, and the po- 
litical salvation of the deeply injured thousands of our 
enslaved population. No portion of the lecturer's remarks 
were more cordially responded to, than those which en- 
forced the justice and necessity of immediate emancipa- 
tion. 

Mr. Thompson seemed considerably exhausted at the 
termination of his arduous but well-executed task. We 
understand that Mr. Thompson has received the most flat- 
tering invitations to visit the principal places in all the sur- 
rounding counties. We earnestly hope that his health may 
be spared to prosecute his valuable labors to a happy and 
glorious consummation,, 



( 173 ) 
NOTE. 

[From the London Morning Chronicle, Sept. 1832.] 

A Jamaica paper of the 1st of August has been received, 
In the absence of events, the bitter animosity against the 
Baptists and other sectarians may deserve a remark. Res- 
olutions were moved and carried at a public meeting, to 
extirpate them, if possible, from the island ; but notice 
had been given by the Attorney General, that several 
of the resolutions were illegal. However, in order not to 
be intimidated, all the resolutions were unanimously pass- 
ed, and among them, the following atrocious Declar- 
ation : — 

1 We, the undersigned, most solemnly declare, that we are resolved, at the 
hazard of our live?, not to suffer any Baptist or other sectarian preacher or 
teacher, or any person professedly belonging to those sects, to preach or to 
teach in any house in towns, or in any districts of the country where the in- 
fluence of the Colonial Union extends; and this we do — maintaining 
the purest loyalty to his majesty king William the fourth, as well as the 
highest veneration for the established religion, in defence of social order, 
and in strict conformity with the laws for the preservation of the public 
peace — to shield this portion of his majesty's island of Jamaica against in- 
. surrection and future destruction.' 

And this is a sample of what we may expect from the 
gradual amelioration scheme. The truth is, and it cannot 
be too often repeated, that the hostility of the West Indi- 
ans against the Baptists and other sectarians is, that they 
perceived that they were in earnest to improve the ne- 
groes. Slavery is not susceptible of amelioration ; for, in 
the decree in which the slave's- mind is enlarged, his dis- 
satisfaction with his condition increases. There is no medi- 
um between abject prostration and complete emancipation. 
All the attempts to bolster up slavery, by protectors of 
slaves and otherwise, only make the matter worse, by 
weakening the authority of the masters over the slaves. 
The momGnt the slave ceases to be wholly and entirely in 
the power of the master, a source of jealousy betwen them 
springs up. We hold, therefore, that emancipation, full and 
complete, is the only way of settling the question. 

The sectarians enjoy the confidence of the negroes, and 
15* 



174 NOTE. 

are deeply interested in their improvement. This is the 
head and front of their offending, in the eyes of the West 
Indians. But who are the sectarians? Including the 
serious part of the Church of England, it may be said that 
the sectarians are nine-tenths of the population of the 
country. They are determined, too, not to be trifled with. 
A man must, indeed, be unable to see the wood for trees,, 
if he do not see, that the partisans of what the West In- 
dians call sectarians, will introduce into the next Parlia- 
ment a sufficient number of representatives, prepared to 
impose on the government the necessity of bringing the 
question of slavery to the only issue worthy of a moment's 
consideration — full and complete, and instant emancipa- 
tion, leaving the question of compensation to be afterwards 
settled. 



( 1?5 ) 



MR. THOMPSON'S SPEECH, 

Delivered at the great Anti-Colonization Meeting, in Exe- 
ter Hall, London, July, 1833. James Ci-opper, Esq. in 
the Chair. 

George Thompson, Esq. in rising to move the second 
resolution said : 

Sir, before I address myself immediately to the resolu- 
tion which I have the honor to submit to this respectable 
meeting, I must claim permission to comment, for a mo- 
ment, upon what I cannot but designate a cruel and heart- 
less attempt to withdraw our minds from the contemplation 
of a vast amount of misery inflicted upon 2,000,000 of our 
fellow beings by the wickedness of man, by directing our 
attention to the existence of partial and home wretchedness 
which I am sure we all deplore, and are desirous of mit- 
igating. (Hear, hear.) I will again remind the honorable 
g entleman (Mr. Hunt) who has acted this unworthy part 
of what he seems to have forgottten, — although pressed 
upon his observation year after year, — that the best friends 
of suffering humanity at home have ever been the warm 
and sympathetic friends of suffering humanity abroad. 
(Cheers.) If he will take his walks along the paths where 
benevolence and mercy love to linger, that they may min- 
ister comfort and assistance to the miserable, the destitute, 
and the bereaved, he will find those ministering spirits to 
be those who have been the readiest to devote their ener- 
gies to the glorious work of universal emancipation. 
(Hear, hear, and cheers.) Our honorable opponent has, 
on other occasions, committed the same offence against 
honor and good breeding. Instead of calling meetings of 
his own, to denounce the wrongs and wretchedness of our 
unfortunate factory children, and thus aiming to do the 
work he pretends to love, properly and efficiently, he satis- 



176 mr. Thompson's speech 

fies himself with attending anti-slavery meetings, and seek- 
ing to divert the attention of the British public from the 
slavery in the West Indies &i in the United States, by 
a reference to the oppressed circumstances- of a portion of 
our juvenile population at home. (Hear, hear.) I must 
confess, I like not the man whose vision is so circumscrib- 
ed that he cannot see or feel it to be his duty to send his 
regards beyond the narrow circle of his own neighborhood. 
Had he chosen the motto/bf our esteemed friend, Mr. Gar- 
rison, ' My country is the world, my countrymen are all 
mankind/ he would not have been found to-day among 
those who would thwart the honest and philanthropic pur- 
poses of our heart, nor have himself been doomed to see a 
resolution of his own unanimously discarded with indig- 
nation and disgust. (Loud cheers.) But the gentleman 
says he is the enemy of black slavery! Believe it — be- 
cause he says so — but, that you may believe, it never glance 
at his deeds. Believe him for his honor; for actions he 
has none to shew, to prove his hatred of the deed. 
(Loud cheers.) Was it fair in that gentleman, igno- 
rant as he is of the first principles of the great ques- 
tion upon which our minds are engaged, — ignorant of 
all the documents upon which we have proceeded, — 
to attempt to overthrow our proceedings ? (Hear, hear.) 
Does he know that a week ago last Wednesday, a public 
meeting was held for the purpose of forming a British Af- 
rican Colonization Society, for the settlement of free per- 
sons of color or their descendants? Does he know, be- 
sides, that this meeting is convened for the purpose, amongst 
other things, of exposing the real object sought in the for- 
mation of that Society? I believe, Sir, the gentleman is 
utterly ignorant of all these matters; and I will therefore 
venture, with your permission, to inform him and-'this meet- 
ing, of the manner in which this bold and impudent trick 
was played off. 

The Societylhave referred to, proposes to be a British 
(mind ! British) African Colonization Society, to effect 
the following purposes : — 1st. To humanize and civilize 
the rude inhabitants of Western Africa and introduce 
commerce and the arts of polished life. 2nd. to extend 
the knowledge and influence of the Christian religion ; 
and 3rdly. To effect the abolitition of the Slave Trade. 
Now, Sir, it is specially worthy of notice, that the per- 



AT EXETER HALL, 177 

sons who, above all others, were most likely to feel a deep 
and lasting interest in the accomplishment of purposes sq 
high and holy, as those which I have specified — if those pur- 
poses were to be achieved by holy and honorable means — 
were none of them invited to the meeting, otherwise than 
by an advertisement in the public papers. Nay, more — 
when a few of them appeared in the room where the meet- 
ing was held, though among them was one of the oldest, 
ablest and sincerest of the friends of Africa, Mr. Macaulay, 
(cheers,) they were regarded as persons likely to frustrate 
the design of the projectors, and were designated, by the 
Chairman and others upon the platform, as factious disturb- 
ers. Not one of the leading friends of Africa, or the abo- 
lition of slave?']/, was invited to take a part in the proceed- 
ings of that day ; though it was held at a time most fa- 
vorable to their attendance, viz : when they were in Lon- 
don from all parts of the Kingdom, on purpose to watch the 
interests of the black man in the British Parliament. Who, 
then, called the meeting? An American ! (Hear, hear.) 
Who ended that meeting 1 An American ! What was 
the real object of that meeting, as disclosed in the last re- 
solution 1 That England should co-operate with America 
in transporting her colored population. 

Mr. Buckingham — No, not transporting. 

Mr. Thompson — Sir, I readily grant the word trans- 
portation was not introduced; but there lies the wilful 
error — there is the deceitfulnes of sin — there is the subtle- 
ty of Satan. (Loud cheers.) Now, Sir, when we consid- 
er that that meeting was called by an American — that 
from its proceedings were carefully excluded every known 
and influential friend to the abolition of slavery and the 
civilization of Africa — that when a few of the friends of 
Africa went to that meeting, they were treated as oppo- 
nents — that those friends, without an exception, felt them- 
selves constrained to oppose the proceedings of that meet- 
ing — and when, lastly, although the Chairman had again 
and again declared that it had nothing whatever to do with 
the American Colonization Society, the only thing absolute- 
ly proposed to be done by the Society was to co-operate icith 
the American Colonization Society. I am quite sure that 
the whole affair will appear, in the eyes of a candid public, 
as a mean, dishonorable and impudent attempt to decoy 
the benevolent inhabitants of this country into copartner- 



ITS MR. THOMPSON'S SPEECH 

ship with a Society, 'whose principles are so unsound that 
whenever alluded to by myself on the day of the above 
meeting, I was invariably checked by the Chairman, and 
reproved for wandering from the object of the meeting. 

My friend, the honorable member for Sheffield, (Mr. 
Buckingham,) must excuse me if I say, that the ground he 
has assigned for supporting this new Society was nothing 
like that of the gentleman behind me, (Mr. Abrahams.) 
The latter gentleman's argument was all cotton. (A laugh.) 
Cotton' was the Alpha and Omega of his speech. The 
planting of cotton trees in Africa is to work the destruction 
of slavery in the United States. (A laugh.) The argu- 
ment of my friend, the member for Sheffield, is based upon 
the possibility of a superabundant free colored population 
in our own Colonies. Looking through the vista of future 
ages, he thinks he perceives it possible that there may be 
an overgrown population of blacks in our dependencies, 
and deems it exceedingly wise to found a British African 
Colonization Society in the year 1833^ that three or four 
millions of years subsequently we may be able to send our 
redundant colored brethren to the land of their ancestors. 
(Loud laughter.) Now, to show how very early must be 
the arrival of that period when it will be necessary to trans- 
port — I beg your pardon — induce to emigrate, our free co- 
lored population, I may observe that in the island of Ja- 
maica alone, with a population at present of 400,000 in* 
habitants, there are millions of acres which the axe has 
never cleared, which the spade has never delved, and 
which the industry and ingenuity of man have never made 
contributory to his wants. (Cheers.) There are, in our 
Colonies, resources of subsistence and wealth for a popu- 
lation infinitely larger than that which at present exists in 
them ; and who so worthy to avail themselves of those re- 
sources as those who have either in their own persons, or 
the persons of their forefathers, endured the rigor of an 
unjust bondage for the wealth and aggrandizement of 
the whites ? (Loud cheers.) It is well known that a great 
many of the horrors of slavery take their rise in the small- 
ness of the slave population, which induces the needy and 
rapacious planter to overwork his slaves, and apply those 
coercive measures which have proved so fatal to their hap- 
piness, elevation and existence. (Hear, hear.) A West 
Indian gentleman, now upon this platform, is prepared to 



AT EXETER HALL. 179 

show that the more rational plan would be to promote emi- 
gration from the United States to our Colonies, and that 
it is the climax of human absurdity to establish a Society 
for colonizing Africa, when years, ages, and centuries 
must elapse, ere we can hope to find colored men to give 
operation, and effort, and accomplishment to the scheme. 
(Hear, hear.) 

What, then, is it our duty to do on this occasion ? 
Why, to denounce the American Colonization Society as 
the enemy to the elevation and prosperity of the people of 
color in the United States — as the friend and supporter of 
Slavery. It is our duty to regard that Society as the hate- 
ful bantling of a fiend-like prejudice, and boldly to tell 
brother Jonathan that if he thinks, by means of an agent 
with a face of brass, to dupe us out of any more of our mo- 
ney, he is mistaken; that we will speedily send his base 
metal away, and keep our own precious coin for worthier 
and nobler purposes. (Laughter and cheers.) 

A preceding speaker (Mr. Abrahams) has said that the 
principle of the Society is ' voluntary emigration.' Is he, 
then, ignorant that the honorable Mr. Broadnax of Virgin- 
ia, rose in the House of Delegates of that State, and con- 
tended that force was absolutely necessary to the accom- 
plishment of their object; and to talk of finding emigrants 
without compulsion was a gross absurdity? That this 
meeting may be in the possession of the views entertained 
by the people of color upon this subject, I will take the 
liberty of quoting their own words in various public meet- 
ings held throughout the United States. In Philadelphia, 
at a meeting held January, 1817, they thus speak : 

'Resolve.1, That we view with deep abhorrence the unmerited stigma at- 
tempted to be east upon the reputation of the free people of color, by the 
promoters of this measure, " that they are a dangerous and u.-eless part of 
community," when in the State' of disfranchisement in which they live, in 
the hour of danger they ceased to remember their wrongs, and rallied round 
the standard of their country.' 

'Resolved, That wc never will separate ourselves voluntarily from the 
plave population of this country ;' (Clieers) — 'they are our brethren by 
the ties of consanguinity, of suffering, and of wrong; and we feel that there 
is more virtue in Buttering privations with them, than in fancied advantages 
for a season.' (Cheers.) 

The free colored people of New York thus speak out 
their sentiments : 



ISO mr. Thompson's speech 

' Resolved, That we view the resolution, calling on the worshippers of 
Christ to assist in the unholy crusade against the colored population of this 
country, as totally at variance with true Christian principles.' 

'Resolved, That weclaim this country, the place of our birth, and not 
Africa, as our mother country, and all attempts to send us to Africa we 
consider gratuitous and uncalled for.' (Cheers.) 

Sir, the gentleman who has this day spoken in favor of 
the Colonization Society, has more than once called him- 
self one of the descendants of Abraham. Now, Sir, we 
all know that his brethren in this country labor under man} 
and heavy disabilities, and that at this moment strenuous 
efforts are being made in the the House of Commons to 
effect their civil emancipation ; efforts, which IJiope and 
trust may be crowned with complete success. But, Sir, 
what would that descendant of Abraham think of me, if, 
instead of giving my voice and vote to raise them to their 
rightful station in this the land of their nativity, I were to 
address myself to his injured brethren and to him, and say , 
1 You are a dangerous and useless part of community — this 
is not your home or country — away to the deserts of Arabia, 
or the mountains of Palestine — there, in the land of your 
ancestors, be free and happy — or pine and perish, for you 
shall not pollute these shores ,' — and then, were to come 
forward, and claim the regard of my countrymen and man- 
kind for having done an act of enlightened justice and hu- 
manity? (Loud cheers.) 

What are the sentiments of the colored inhabitants of 
Boston 1 Hear them : 

'Resolved, That we consider the land in which we were born, and in 
which we have been bred, our only ' true and appropiate home' — and that 
when we desire to remove, we will apprise the public of the same indue 
season.' (Cheers.) 

I am rejoiced, Sir, to find my countrymen respond so 
warmly to sentiments like these. Such language as I have 
read, is the true and natural language of reason, patriotism 
and independence ; and he who cannot approve such 
language, is a being who loves liberty only as the instru- 
ment of tyranny, and deserves to lose the blessing which 
his selfishness and hateful despotism will not allow him to 
share with those around him. (Loud cheers.) 



AT EXETER HALL. 181 

What say the inhabitants of New-Haven ? 

* Resolved, That we will resist all attempts made for our removal to the 
torrid shores of Africa, and will sooner suffer every drop of blood to be ta- 
ken from our veins than submit to such unrighteous treatment.' (Cheers.) 

' Resolved, That we know of no other place that we can call our true 
and appropriate home excepting these United States, into which our fathers 
were brought, who enriched the country by their toils, and fought, bled and 
died in its defence, and left us in its possession — and here we will live and 
die.' (Cheers.) 

The removal of these colored persons has, however, 
been justified this day by our friend, the descendant of 
Abraham, on the ground that they are sent as missionaries 
to a land of heathen darkness, that they may spread the 
light and sanctity of our divine Christianity. But is it the 
faGt that the Colonization Society is in the habit of 
transporting missionaries by ship loads to Africa 1 A let- 
ter from J. Mechlin, Esq., Governor of Liberia, to the 
Rev. R. R. Gurley, Secretary to the American Coloniza- 
tion Society, will illustrate this part of the subject. I ex- 
tracted it from No. 94 of the African Repository, Vol. 8, 
for December, 1832. The Letter is dated Liberia, Sep- 
tember, 1832. 

e With respect to the character o'f the people composing tills expedition,* 
I regret to be compelled to state, that they are, with the exception of those 
from Washington, the family of Pages and a few others, the lowest and 
most abandoned of their class. From such materials it is vain to expect 
that an industrious, intelligent and enterprising community, can possibly be 
formed; the thing is utterly impossible, and they cannot but retard in- 
stead of advancing the prosperity of the colony, I have noticed this sab* 
ject in one of my former communications, and nothing but a thorough con- 
viction that such an influx of vagrants cannot fail of blasting the hopes which 
our friends have so long and so ardently cherished, could have induced me 
again to advert to it. 

lam induced to be thus unreserved in my remarks, aa it is from the suf- 
ferings of people of this stamp, occasioned by their own indolence and Stir- 
pidity, that the slanderous reports published in the Liberator have originated ; 
they have never, when in the United Slates, voluntarily labored for their 
own support, and now, when the stimulus of the overseer's lash is remov- 
ed, cannot be induced lo exert themselves sufficiently to procure even a 
scanty subsistence. Indeed, so far from there being any real grounds fov 
the assertions of our enemies, 1 am at this moment issuing rations to at least 
one hundred persons, whose six months have expired. Some of these have 
been prevented by sickness from attending to their farm ; the crops of 
others are not sufficiently advanced to afford them a subsistence ; but by 
far the greater number are women and children, who have been sent Out 
without any male person to provide for them; and being unable to gain a 



* Viz : 128 emigrants in the brig America, 15th of September, 1832. 

1G 



182 mr. Thompson's speech 

livelihood by tilling the soil or any other occupation, have become a burthen 
to the Agency. Many in the present expedition are similarly circumstanced, 
and what to do with them I know riot. Our respectable colonists them- 
selves are becoming alarmed at the great number of ignorant and abandon- 
ed characters that have arrived within the last twelve months; and almost 
daily representations are made by those who have applied themselves to the 
cultivation of the soil, of the depredations committed on their crops by the 
above described class of people, who cannot be induced to labor for their 
own support.' 

Now, Sir, much has been said, both here and elsewhere, 
of the vast number of intelligent, enterprising and religious 
persons of color willing to go to Liberia ; and it has, with 
equal confidence, been asserted that funds only were want- 
ing to enable the managers of the American Colonization 
Society to make a selection of persons fully qualified to 
enter, with every prospect of success, upon the great 
work of civilizing and evangelizing Africa. It appears 
that during the years 1831 and 1832, efforts were made to 
ship off a more than ordinary number of emigrants, and 
that the object was accomplished. But, Sir, were the 
persons so sent, such as have been all along described as 
willing to go? Do they answer the description this day 
given of those missionary colonists, who are to prove such 
a blessing to Africa ? No. The Governor describes them 
as ' the lowest and most abandoned of their class ' — an * in- 
flux of vagrants' — ' indolent and stupid' — ' the greater num- 
ber women and children, without any male person to pro- 
vide for them.' He declares that ' the colonists are alarm- 
ed at the great number of ignorant and abandoned char- 
acters that have arrived within the last twelve months ' — 
and speaks of ' daily depredations ' committed by such per- 
sons upon the crops of the industrious. Now, Sir, what 
is the plain inference from these authoritative statements'? 
It is one of the following — either that there is no large 
portion of intelligent and religious persons of color to go, 
and that, therefore, the representations given upon that sub- 
ject are false — or that the managers and auxiliaries of this 
Society cannot discriminate between the good and the bad; 
between those who are likely to f retard the interests of 
the Colony,' and those who are qualified to ' advance 
them' — or, that they have wickedly and wilfully poured 
upon the infant colony a flood of moral corruption, threat- 
ening its very existence, as an industrious and well con- 



AT EXETER HAALL. 183 

ducted settlement. I leave the defenders of the Coloni- 
zation scheme to choose between these natural and neces- 
sary conclusions from the accounts of their Governor, and 
their own authorized statements. (Loud cheers.) Again, 
Sir ; the Editor of the African Repository, in introducing 
Governor iVIechlin's letter, observes, respecting the expedi- 
tion of the American : — ' We regret to learn that, in the 
opinion of the colonial agent, they are little qualified to add 
strength and character to the Colony ; but,' he adds, 
' those who are now to embark are among the best of 
our colored population.' Now, Sir, admitting that the 
next ship-load be of this description, I contend that both 
in principle and policy, such a line of conduct is bad. If 
they really be among 'the best of the colored population,' 
why are they, by oppression and unjust treatment, made 
willing to go? Why are they not encouraged and made 
happy on their native soil ? As a course of policy, such a 
proceeding is monstrous. Why send the salt away? Is 
it because they desire to keep an unmixed mass of putrid- 
ity at home ? Cannot these ' best' portions of their colored 
population be beneficially employed at home? Ought they 
not to be employed ? But the language of their actions is 
this — ' We seek not the elevation of the blacks at home. 
We care not a rush for the improvement of our two mil- 
lions of slaves amongst us — we rather wish that they 
should remain wretched and debased, that we may the 
more securely rivet upon them the chain of a soukdegrad- 
ing, man-dishonoring, God-defying despotism. Show us 
an illuminated negro, and away he goes to Liberia !-^- 
Show us the sublime and noble sight of a black man strug- 
gling into political existence, and away he goes to bless 
Liberia. Show us the spectacle of one who looks around 
upon his colored brethren in bonds, with a burning desire 
to be their liberator, and away with him to the regions of 
Liberia ! This is not the land for illuminated minds, un- 
less they tenant white bodies. This is not the land for 
struggles in the cause of liberty, unless it be liberty for 
the whites. This is not the land for burning desires, and 
pantings after deeds of deathless fame, unless felt and 
performed by white skinned men. Away with all such 
colored men to Africa ! There let them burn, and shine, 
and struggle, and contend ; for here thev shall have HP 



184 MR. THOMPSON S SPEECH 

abiding city. We will cast into their cup the bitterness of 
scorn and persecution, and calumny and reproach, until 
nature recoils at the galiy draught, and they cry in the an- 
guish of their spirits — ' We are willing to go to Liberia /' 

The Colonization Society of America has been describ- 
ed, by its Agent in this country, as an abolition Society, 
and the people of America have been described as general- 
ly friendly to the extinction of slavery. Let us see how 
far they prove the Agent's assertions. Do their documents 
confirm such a statement 1 No I They utterly deny its 
truth, and declare that slave property is held by a Coloni- 
Eationist to be as sacred as any other description of property. 
Do they show their hatred of slavery by countenancing the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society 1 Do they encourage 
and speak well of its managers and agents? No! They 
are striving, by every possible engine which malice can 
devise, to crush that Society, because it proceeds upon the 
christian principle, that we should do unto others as we 
would they should do unto us. 

Again : the Colonizationists wish to exempt themselves 
from the charge of having an unchristian prejudice against 
color, whilst they justify their proceedings, by asserting the 
existence of such a prejudice to a very wide extent. Let 
us see how far they are consistent. For ask them, if this 
same prejudice cannot be conquered, and they tell you, 
<j$ — jt possesses nineteen-twentieths of the inhabitants/ 
You ask them, who are the friends of the Colonization So- 
ciety ? and they tell you ' Nineteen-twentieths of the inhab- 
itants.' (Cheers.) I leave their friend here to extricate 
them from the charge of being themselves the fosterers of 
that diabolical prejudice in which has originated, and by 
which is perpetuated, the degradation of the colored popu- 
lation. (Loud cheers.) 

Permit me, Sir, briefly to refer to a portion of a very 
eloquent speech delivered by the Rev. Mr. Hammet, at 
the American Colonization Society's 16th annual meeting : 
a quotation which I think will throw considerable light 
upon the views of the principal supporters of that So- 
ciety. Mark what he says of the prejudice which ex- 
ists, and of the consequent condition of the people of 
color t 



AT EXETER HALL. 185 

* The evil which this Society proposes to remedy has already spread to 
a fearful extent, and is becoming more and more alarming every day. That 
class of the community to whom it affords succor, though nominally free, 
can in fart never be so in this country. A gloom hangs over them through 
which they can never hope to peneti ate, and they groan under a weight of 
prejudice, from which they can never expect to nee-' 

' Indeed, Mr. Hammet! We thank you for your honest 
truth. 'Nominally tree.' JVlu>t not 'expect' or ' hope to 
rise.' Base, hypocritical, republican America, to trample 
on your boasted Declaration of* Independence, and wrap 
in impenetrable gloom the spirit of the man, you have de- 
clared to be equally entitled with yourself to liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness ! Speaking of the patronage the 
Society enjoys, he says : 

' In almost every State of this Union, the great body of the people are 
awakening to a sense of the vast importance < 1 this tmdei taking,' &c. &c, — 
'and, Sir, the whole religious community of this widely extended republic 
have declared it worthy their confidence, and have resolved, in their so- 
lemn assemblies, to give it their support.' 

Had I been present, I would have asked this Rev. Col- 
onizationist, whether the whole religious community might 
not be better employed in praying to be divested of their 
prejudice, and in seeking to uproot it from American so- 
ciety ? I would have asked him, if he had not himself 
proved that the 'gloom,' and 'weight,' and 'prejudice/ 
and 'nominal freedom,' under all of which the people of 
color groan and despair, were attributable to the whole re- 
ligious community, thus found patronizing the Coloniza- 
tion Society 1 He further says : — ' No individual effort, no 
system of legislation, can in this country redeem them 
from this condition, nor raise them to the level of the white 
man. It is utterly vain to expect it,' &.c. 

Again — ' At home amongst us, scarcely to be con- 
trolled by law, or elevated by religion.' (! ! ! !") Monstrous 
assertion! and impudent as monstrous! and impious as it 
is impudent ! How could the speaker utter a sentiment so 
disgraceful to his country, and so libellous upon his faith, 
without a burning cheek and a faltering tongue ? ' At 
home amongst us.' Do not these words brand, as hypo- 
critical and°base, all the professions of piety and philan- 
throphy made by the persecuting members of the Coloni- 
zation Society 1 Not only do they confess their own de- 
termination to cherish this hellish feeling— not only do 

16* 



Ig5 mr. Thompson's speech 

they deny the power of legislation to help these people, 
but actually deny the power of religion to fit them for the 
privileges of freemen. (Hear, hear,) 

Mr. Abrahams. — I deny that it is beyond the power of 
religion to do it. 

Mr. Thompson. — Sir, you do well to acquit yourself of 
any participation in this blasphemous calumny ; but re- 
member that Mr. Hammet said so in defence of the Colo- 
nization Society ; therefore, strike him off the list of your 
friends. (Cheers.) And know, also, that the sentiment 
was uttered with applause in a very large and crowded 
meeting of the friends of the Society ; therefore, strike them 
off your list of friends. (Cheers.) And know, still furth- 
er, that 20,000 copies of this speech have been circulated 
by that Society, and still remains uncontradicted by any 
friend of the Society but yourself; therefore, free yourself 
at once from the unholy confederacy, and enrol your name 
amonst the friends of universal liberty. (Loud cheers.) 
But although Mr. Hammet denies that they can rise in 
their native country, he maintains that it is only necessa- 
ry that they should be sent to Africa, to become every thing 
that is noble and useful. Aladdin's lamp has heen spoken 
of to-day ; but, in my opinion, the change effected upon 
the characters of these colored people, by a voyage to 
Africa, is even more wonderful than the exploits of this 
Hero of Arabian romance. Nothing is necessary but that 
these ' pests of society,' these ' nuisances,' should be plac- 
ed on board a Colonization packet, and, 'presto!' they 
become artizans, statesmen, philosophers and christians. 
(Loud applause.) 

* Transported to Africa,' says the Rev. Mr. Hammet, ' we there behold 
a class of beings who, at home amongst us, could scarcely be controlled by 
law or elevated by religion, suddenly springing into honorable notice ; cul- 
tivating among themselves all the arts of civilized life, and securing to their 
families all the blessings of well ordered society. Every day's intelligence 
only reiterates what we have heard from the beginning — that peace harmo- 
ny and contentment are abounding.' 

Then all the elements of civilization, all the elements of 
harmony, all the elements of contentment, every thing that 
lifts man from a state of degradation, must be shipped off 
from America ; for there these elements are at war with 
peace and contentment, and produce wretchedness ; and 



AT EXETER HALL 187 

the native intellectual greatness which raises the man in 
in Liberia, sinks him to the condition of a brute in the 
first republic of the world. (Loud applause.) 

'Schools are established,' continues the Rev. gentleman, (but are there 
none in America'?) 'churches are erected, the mechanic arts are cultivated, 
agriculture is promoted, and commerce even with foreign nations has already 
been embarked in; and by whom, Sir 1 By a class of beings who, while 
here, hung a dead weight upon the skirts of the country. Sir, with the sub- 
limity and grandeur of the spectacle and prospect before us, calculation it- 
self can hardly keep pace.' (Laughter and cheers.) 

If ever there was a piece of self-contradiction, it is 
this extract ; if ever there was a man who belied re- 
ligion, who belied human nature, who made transcend- 
ant capabilities a reason for banishing men from their 
native land, Mr. Ham met has been guilty of it in the 
passage I have read. (Cheers.) But can these free 
people of color be elevated by religion? At Liberia, 
the Rev. gentleman adds, ' the Christian, too, has much to 
animate his hopes and stimulate his zeal.' In America, 
they contend that religion has not this elevating power : 
but here, in Liberia, ' the Christian has much to animate 
his hopes and stimulate his zeal.' An immense field, ' al- 
ready white to the harvest,' opens before him. The mis- 
sionary of the cross shall enter there, bearing to perish- 
ing thousands the ' Bread of Life.' O, what cant and hy- 
pocrisy is this ! What an insult to the religion that he 
was lauding. He was obliged to contend, at one moment, 
that it could not help the black man among his white, 
christianized, high professing brethren of America ; but in 
the wilds of Africa, amidst beasts and savages, it could 
make him a man, a philosopher, and a Christian. (Loud 
cheers.) 

•Africa will receive him ; churches will be reared ; pi esses will be estab- 
lished ; the scriptures shall. foe circulated; and the darkness of ages, retiring 
like the shades of night at (he approach of the morning sun, shall be finally 
scattered by the effulgent blaze of divine truth. Yes, Sir, (thus ends his 
speech,) 'superstition shall be broken down, false philosophy shall be con- 
founded, heathen oracles shall be struck dumb. "The altar and the god 
shall sink together to the dust" and Africa shall come forth, " redeemed, re- 
generated and disenthralled." ' 

Yes, and when Africa shall thus arise in might and ma- 
jesty ; when Christianity shall have made her all that is 
noble ; even then she shall say, ' The prejudice that sent 
forth the missionaries to our country was cruel, anti-chris- 
tian, inhuman and diabolical.' (Loud cheers ) 



188 mr. Thompson's speech 

What are you called for together to-day ? To counten- 
ance William Lloyd Garrison, the dauntless, the talent- 
ed, the uncompromising, the pledged, the devoted friend 
of the free persons of color and of slaves in the United 
States. Let others, with their narrow views, frown in the 
cruelty of their scorn upon a meeting like this ; hut he it 
yours to welcome, from the regions of America, William 
Lloyd Garrison, who is fighting the same battle as 
yourselves. Be it yours to cheer his heart ; be it yours to 
countenance his efforts ; be it yours to send him back for- 
tified with your blessings and your prayers ; be it yours to 
hold up his hand amidst these convicted flesh-mongers 
and kidnappers of their species. (Cheers.) 

Mr. Garrison has happily succeed in establishing, with 
no small pains, with no small sacrifice, an Anti-Slavery 
Society in Boston. What are the motives of the Socie- 
ty he has established? My resolution comes to these, 
and therefore I will take the liberty of troubling you with 
them. The whole affair is almost new to a British audience 
and therefore I will just lay before you, in two or three 
sentences, the motives of the New-England Anti-Slavery 
Society, as avowed in their First Annual Report. 

Their motives ' are not motives of hostility to the inter- 
ests or the persons of slave-owners. 5 Then they go on to say 
that their desire is to do good to the slave-owner as well 
as the black ; whilst they expose the injustice of one man 
holding property in another. Their motives in the second 
place, are not those of a party character ; they are asso- 
ciated together ' to maintain, not to destroy the Union, 
by endeavoring to remove the cause of division.' Their 
motive, in the third place, is ■ to tolerate no compromise 
of principle.' There is no truckling to narrow-sighted ex- 
pediency ; no attempt to empty the ocean, by putting into 
it the buckets of Colonization philanthrophy. Their ' de- 
mands upon the holders of slaves are as imperative as those 
of the book of inspiration : to loose the bands of wicked- 
nesss, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed 
go free. (Cheers.) 'The purposes of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society, as declared in the second article of 
its Constitution, are to endeavor, by all means sanctioned 
by law humanity aad religion, to effect the abolition of sla- 
very, to improve the character and condition of the free 



AT EXETER HALL. 189 

people of color, inform and correct public opinion in rela- 
tion to their situation and rights, and obtain for them equal 
civil and political rights and privileges with the whites/ 

Then, Sir, in another part of this document, (the First 
Annual Report of the Society,) they go on to say what 
they mean by immediate abolition. ' It means, in the first 
place, that all title of property in the slaves shall instantly 
cease, because their Creator has never relinquished his 
claim of ownership, and because none have a right to sell 
their own bodies or buy those of their own species as 
cattle. 

'It means, secondly, that every husband shall have his 
own wife, and every wife her own husband, both being 
united in wedlock according to its proper forms, and plac- 
ed under the protection of law. 

' It means, thirdly, that parents shall have the control 
and government of their own children, and that the child- 
ren, shall belong to their parents. 

'It means, fourthly, that all trade in human beings shall 
be regarded as felony, and entitled to the highest punish- 
ment. 

'It means, fifthly, that the tremendous power which is 
now vested in every slaveholder to punish his slaves with- 
out trial, and to a savage extent, shall be at once taken 
away. 

' It means, sixthly, that all those laws which now prohib- 
it the instruction of the slaves, shall instantly be repealed, 
and others enacted, providing schools and instruction for 
their intellectual illumination. 

'It means, seventhly, that the planters shall employ their 
slaves as free laborers, and pay them just wages. 

'It means, eighthly, that the slaves, instead of being 
forced to labor (or the exclusive benefitof others, by cruel 
drivers, and the application of the lash upon their bodies, 
shall be encouraged to toil for the mutual profit of them- 
selves and their employers, by the infusion of new motives 
into their hearts, growing out of their recognition and re- 
ward as men. 

'It means, finally, that right shall take the supremacy 
over wrong, principle over brute force, humanity over 
cruelty, honesty over theft, purity over lust, honor over 
baseness, love over hatred, and religion over heathenism.' 



190 mr. Thompson's speech 

Then the benefits are stated, which would result from 
the adoption of this righteous procedure. 

Having thus endeavored to show the wickedness, the 
absurdity of the Colonization Society; having in the sec- 
ond place endeavored, though feebly, to do justice to the 
motives and the conduct of Mr. Garrison ; having laid be- 
fore you the principles of the Society which he has had 
the honor to found ; I have now to move a resolution, which 
will claim your sympathy on behalf of this gentleman, and 
which will go to foster and cherish the Society with which 
he is connected. The resolution is as follow : 

' Resolved, That the colored people of the United States, fully aware that 
the object of the American Colonization Society is not their improvement 
and happiness, have declared their detestation of it in the most solemn and 
public manner ; — that that oppressed people have our heart-felt sympathy ; — 
and that the principles and efforts of their advocates, the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety of New-England, have our cordial approbation.' 

I trust that this resolution will pass unanimously. I 
know that all opposition will be fruitless and contemptible. 
I know that it will but elicit your disgust — though disgust is 
sometimes more acceptable to certain persons than no no- 
tice at all ; but, at all events, I know that I shall have a 
large majority in favor of the resolution. If there be any 
one present who does not approve of it, let him move an 
amendment. (Long and continued cheering.) 

The resolution was carried unanimously. 



