res. 5^7S.53i ^^-f 



1 



■-?x 



y^y 



'^ :.: 



>7.-- 




EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY, 

A 
DISCOURSE 



COMMEMORATION 

OF THE 

EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY 

IN 

THE BRITISH COLONIES, 

On the 1st OF August, 1838. 



By JOHN R. BEARD. 



LONDON: 
SMALLFIELP AND SON. 

MANCHESTER : FORREST AND FOGO. 

1838. 



rt^. SSiff.S^ ^^*^ 



TO 

THE CONGREGATION OF UNITARIAN CHRISTIANS 

ASSEMBLING FOR WORSHIP 

IN THE 

GREENGATE CHAPEL, 

SALFORD, 

THIS DISCOUR&E 

PUBLISHED AT THE REQUEST OF THEIR COMMITTEE, 

IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED, 

BY THEIR AFFECTIONATE 

PASTOR AND FRIEND. 



SALFORD, AUG. 8th., 1838„ 



EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY, 



Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed in him— 'If jre 
continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed, and ye shall 
know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.'— They ans- 
wered him— 'We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage 
to any man: how sayest thou— "Ye shall be made free?"' — 
Jesus answered them — 'Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever 
committeth sin is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not 
in the house for ever : but the son abideth ever. If the son there- 
fore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. — John viii, 31-36 



We are now far advanced in the second century since 
Europe began to display on a grand scale, the more intel- 
lectual and moral results of the influence under which she 
lay during the dark and preparatory period usually desig- 
nated the middle ages. It is not a figure of rhetoric to 
say, that the time has been one of unparalleled brilliancy. 
Athens had the age of her Pericles, Rome of her Augus- 
tus. In other nations civilization has reached for the 
day its culminating point, and shone ^vith distinguished 
lustre. But all previous eras of light fell short of the 
one we are now contemplating, at least in the multiplicity 
of its grandeurs. One age the arts have embellished; 
another has been ennobled by letters. The spiritual ele- 
ment of humanity was resplendently kindled on the banks 
of Jordan, in the midst of surrounding twilight: and. 
scarcely in any country has the dire lust of ambition failed 
to light the funeral pile of its false glory, and seduce men 
to kneel even at the immolation of their feUows. But 
the passing age borrows its honours from the wide circle 
of human thought, feeling and enterprise. It has not 



only thrown light on old worlds, but discovered new.- 
Unsatisfied with the range in which the mind had exerted 
its faculties, it has opened out other regions before not 
on]y unseen but unsuspected; and of a far higher grandeur, 
and far richer in good and in hope than any previous dis- 
covery, except that of him who brought immortality to 
light. For the period is distinguished as much by the 
originality as by the variety of its discoveries. It has 
called whole sciences into existence, and given a new 
character- and a wider application to sciences which its 
predecessors imagined they had brought to perfection. 
Without dwelling on the achievements it has made in the 
severer and the physical sciences, by which man's domi- 
nion over the globe and over the production of the neces- 
saries and the luxuries of life has been incalculably aug- 
mented, — I will refer to some of its discoveries which 
bear a more immediate connexion with the moral and 
intellectual interests of man. 

Under the good providence of God, and cultivated by 
human skill, the earth has in every age abounded in 
resources serviceable to our race ; but the distribution of 
these resources took place almost by blind chance, apart 
from general rules ; nay, almost apart from intelligence 
of any kind. A new era comes ; minds are busy with 
the causes and the distribution of the wealth of nations ; 
a superior intellect throws its powers into the chaos of 
thought, and a science is forthwith created, tending in its 
general results to bring about a practical recognition of 
the brotherhood of man. 

Human rights had indeed been objects of contempla- 
tion, but on no grand and comprehensive scale, with no 
quickening principles. Clanship, citizenship, nationality ; 
the sympathies even of the wiser part went not beyond 
these narrow generalisations. A new spirit comes into 
the mind of Europe. Christianity extricates itself from 
the trammels in which Heathenism had for centuries held 
it, and teaching the doctrine of man's spiritual equality, 
it expands the speculations of philosophy so as to embrace 
the \vhole of humankind. The science of morality 
undergoes a new birth. History serves for new and 
higher purposes. International rights are acknowledged^, 



which gives rise to international law ; and the way is pre- 
pared for the settlement of the disputes of empires, by the 
peaceful arbitration of reason, instead of murderous appeals 
to arms. 

Combined with this recognition of a human brother- 
hood, Christianity called into existence in the heart of 
Europe, that spirit of general good-will and tenderness, 
which is its own chief characteristic. Hence the word 
humanity ceased to represent mental culture, and came 
to mean all that is kindly and generous in human nature. 
The thinkers, who are the real rulers of humankind, began 
to feel an impartial interest and some times a lofty enthu- 
siasm for all that wear the human form. Benevolence in 
the heart lead to beneficence in the life; and a warm, 
practical, active humanity asserted the rights, vindicated 
the wrongs, and maintained the interests of the whole 
human family. Christian love became more and more 
every year an operative principle in the great European 
commonwealth. It breathed in its poetry. It kindled 
the eloquence of its prose. It was sometimes the moving 
power in cases where even batteries were successfully 
worked against the outward form of Christianity itself. 
And large portions of the Christian world, especially in 
this country, became in consequence instinct with a new 
and holy spirit, and were moved by noble and compre- 
hensive aims : Clarkson, Wilberforce and Smith appeared, 
and gathering up and concentrating the noble impulses 
which lived around them, they directed their humane and 
generous energies to one end, and slavery received a fatal 
blow. The weapon by which it was struck could not 
have been fabricated in any previous age : it required the 
searching, analytical spirit of reason, which dissolving all 
interests and institutions, came to the primary and funda- 
mental notions which involve the equality of human kind ; 
and it required the mild, generous and loving spirit of the 
gospel, which not only affirms but also' asserts and vindi- 
cates the brotherhood of man. The emancipation of the 
slave is due to reason and feeling liberated from heathen 
corruptions and feudal trammels, by the genius of Chris- 
tianity. It is due, in other words, to the quickening 
power which the benevolence of the gospel infused into 



the nations of Europe, nor least into our own. The 
light which enabled men to see the rights of the slave, 
and the power which impelled them to maintain those 
rights, both came from the life and teachings of Jesus 
Christ ; both are a natural consequence of the influence 
on society of the heroism of his philanthropy. In no 
other nation but the British, could the achievement have 
been made. Intellect is powerful and active with others, 
and benevolence is not wanting ; but no where else is 
reason informed by so pure and intense an inspiration of 
spiritual power and holy love. Wisdom could have dis- 
covered the rights of the slave, and eloquence talked 
attractively of them ; but the love of Christ only was of 
potency enough to break his chains and bid the captive 
go free. Throughout the generous conflict, from the first 
word uttered in his behalf to the abolition of the direful 
traffic ; thence to that emancipation which though a step 
onwards, was little better than the prolongation of slavery 
in a mitigated form, up to its extinction in our colonies 
at the present hour, which I believe to be a token of doom 
to slavery in general, — you will find that the light, the 
impulse, the power have proceeded directly or indirectly 
from the spirit and principles of the religion of Jesus. 
— '^The truth shall make you free.' — The truth of Christ, 
the great truth that God is the Father of all mankind, 
and he himself a common Saviour ; this truth partly in its 
own form, partly in guises with v/hich philosophy has 
invested it, and still more in the tender and enkindling 
charity which it tends to diffiise abroad — has made a 
herd of slaves into a nation of brothers. 

Nor has the operation been restricted to this continent. 
Christianity lifted its voice in the midst of the slave? 
themselves. Its missionaries could not offer them tht 
words of eternal life without at the same time throwing 
out ideas, principles and representations ; without kindling 
a spirit, which sooner or later could not fail to dissolve 
slavery. And the great tide of ideas which has its mov- 
ing impulse in this land, finds many and every day increas-^ 
ing channels by which to flow to the remotest regions. 
Thus the voice which here grew indignant at the wrongs 
of the negro, and the pen which drew the frightful picture, 



9 

were carried by the press into the islands where so many 
of the unfortunate race have suffered and perished. The 
result was an awakening on their part to a dim and vague 
perception of their rights, which joined with an instinc- 
tive sense of the calamities they endured, grew in time 
to a distinct perception of their relative position towards 
God and man, and gave birth to a silent but determined 
resolution to seize the first opportunity which offered for 
the vindication of their rights. In a word, Christ ap- 
peared among them, and they were free. The light of 
his gospel kindled their minds, the warmth of his love 
moved their hearts — their frames swelled into the propor- 
tions of humanity, and burst their chains. There was 
danger in the continuation of their servitude. The mother 
country had grown too wise and too benevolent to shield 
oppression, and the emancipation of the slave ensued ; 
the result of irresistible influences. In the great ordina- 
tions of Providence the year of jubilee had come, and 
vain and idle was the resistance of the puny arm of self- 
interested injustice. 

I wish truth allowed of a somewhat different record — 
allowed me to say that injustice spontaneously undid the 
negro's chain. Large was the debt which she owed the 
race, for terrible were the ills she had inflicted on it. 
But when have thejunjust voluntarily surrendered their ill- 
gotten possessions ? When have they repaired the wrongs 
they did ? It is of the nature of injustice to add insult 
to injury, and to carry the evil passions even to hatred 
and revenge, should the injured make an effort in self- 
defence. And too much of this character has been the 
conduct of the slave-owners. They first doomed their 
slaves to inevitable wretchedness and depravity, and then 
pleaded their condition in justification of their own turpi- 
tude. But God himself has set limits to evil doing. The 
scourges of humanity are not, as they appear to be, in 
the hands of the wicked. There is a controling power. 
Outraged humanity utters the voice of God, and the lash 
is still, and the slave wailks in freedom. 

Among the triumphs of the period of which I have 
spoken, proud and numerous though they are, the nob!est 
in my opinion is the Extinction of Slavery m the British 



10 

Colonies. I am not now thinking so much of the gene- 
rous expenditure of thought, feeling and effort which the 
conquest demanded and received, nor of the princely ran- 
som which this Empire paid, hut simply of the act itself. 
It was the extinction of slavery. And what is the dis- 
covery of a whole circle of the sciences compared with 
this? If the triumphs of humanity are limited to the 
increase of mere physical good, and the aggrandizement 
of the few, the advantage they achieve is hut of a dubious 
kind, inasmuch as it leaves our higher nature untouched, 
and engenders on the side of the privileged class pride 
and scorn , and in the despised many, envy, malice and 
depravity. The earth was given not to a part hut to the 
whole of humankind. The earth was mainly designed 
to call into existence, foster and perfect the intellect, the 
heart and the soul of man; and every achievement must 
be measured by the degree in which it gives effect to 
those great purposes of Providence. The tendencies are 
but too many and too powerful which go to create invidi- 
ous distinctions, to pamper these and famish those ; to 
honor and degrade ; to refine and brutalize ; to enrich 
and empoverish; to save and to ruin. And science itself 
has not seldom lent an influence to the few which they 
have used for the increase of their domination over the 
many. Even philosophy has been degraded into an 
apologist of oppression, and has too often proved the 
active assailant of that Faith which is, and will more and 
more prove to be, the living fountain of human liberty, as 
v/ell as of human happiness. And if therefore the age 
we contemplate had merely widened and brightened the 
circle of human intelligence, it would have deserved far 
less honor than it has gained by breaking in pieces the 
chains of the slave. The extinction of slavery is a God- 
like work ; for slavery is the absence of all rights and the 
ptresence of all wrongs. It is the denial to a fellow- 
creature of the most peculiar and precious attribute which 
God has given us ; it is the nullification of the will ; it 
puts cramps on the moving power, and thereby annihilates 
all spontaneousness of action, renders thinking useless or 
baneful, and ends by destroying the faculties and 
depraving the character. 



11 

It is evil enoagh for one man to be at the bidding of 
another in regard to his outward acts. The weight of a 
little finger on personal liberty is to one who has the 
spirit of a man, an insufferable burden. Nor will Chris- 
tianity fail eventually to remove and bear away every 
social burden which an imperfectly understood sense 
of brotherhood yet leaves amongst us. But the real 
evil of slavery is in the bond wHch it imprints on the 
soul ; its destruction of human rights, and consequent 
supercession of human duties, and in the depravity to 
which such a condition must conduct. Whatever is unnatu- 
ral is not only unjust but destructive. Nature is nothing 
more than the Deity in operation ;] and whosoever opposes 
the laws of the human mind or the laws of the human 
body, sets himself in hostility to the will of God, and to 
his beneficent ordinations; and if he continue in his 
course, can do no other than bring ruin on himself 
and his fellows. But slavery is the great act of human re- 
bellion. It is not merely injustice towards man, but 
open and manifest hostility to God. No truth can be 
clearer than that God designed each man to be a self- 
willing, self- controlling, and self-acting being. Was 
this his intention in respect of any man ? If so, in re- 
spect of each and all. What are the faculties he has be- 
stowed on the race ? Every faculty declares its own 
function — ^in other words, declares the design and will 
of God. And has he not given us a power to feel, to 
think, to judge, to will, to act ? I hear speak of differ- 
ences between races of the human family, and am told of 
permanent peculiarities of conformation attaching to some. 
(t may be so, it may not be so, I know not whether, and 
I am not solicitous upon the point ; for I care little what 
may be the complexion of the skin, or the contour of any 
member of the body ; it is enough for the establishment 
of the grand fact of human brotherhood, that mind in all 
races, and all individuals, ever remains essentially the 
same, in each of its great characteristics. Was the 
being ever found, much less the race, who, provided he 
be sane, could not feel, reason, love, hope, and fear ? 
Did ever the negro mother allow her infant to be wrested 
from her arms without a pang at her heart ? Into the 



12 

bosom of the negro youth did ho warm emotions, no 
bright visions descend ? Were there in him no move- 
ments, no promptings of the will? Did he not, at least 
in his early days, feel impelled with vague aspirations 
after a better fate ? Your own instruments of coer- 
cian and torture shall answer the question. Why the 
lash — why the dungeon and the gallows ? They are de- 
signed to put force on the will, to make the slave do 
what he would not do ; and the terror which they bear is 
a measure of the opposing power of injured humanity, 
and of the divinity which stirs within it. The slave 
owner then is self-convicted of treason to the Father of 
human kind. God gave his children powers by which 
they might think, feel, and act. Slavery does its utmost 
to supersede their functions. God designed men to act 
as a consequence of thinking ; Slavery endeavours to 
make them act not only without thinking, but in opposi- 
tion to their thoughts, their wishes, their will. It puts 
out the light of God, in the soul, destroys the eye of the 
mind in order that it may lead the blind whither it wills. 
And with the extinction of the light, it has destroyed re- 
sponsibility. Where there are no mental rights there 
can be no duties, and where right and duty are abolished, 
depravation must ensue. You have taken away the 
the governing power which God gave, no other can be 
substituted, and no result can come but confusion and 
dismay. Morality, religion, — all that is good and 
hopeful in man and for man, has no reality with the slave. 
Words of the brightest import, relations of the dearest 
kind, part with their meaning and their value. It is 
only needful that you should realise in full the condition 
of slavery, for you to bring on the slave the prostration of 
his mind, the petrifaction of his heart, the death of his 
soul, and the perversion of his whole being to sin, crime, 
and misery. Destroy the will, fetter the will of a human 
being, and you have effected his ruin. Therefore is 
slavery a dire calamity ; — therefore, because being hos- 
tile to God's arrangements and designs, it robs humanity 
of its qualities, and brings on the extinction of the soul, 
an extinction which is not the annihilation of the human 
being — Oh, well if it were ! — but the withering of every 



13 

l)etter quality, and tke quickening into rank luxuriance 
of what is low, base, degrading, baneful, and wretched. 

Whence we may learn the proper ground for the joy 
we feci in the extinction of slavery. It is not merely in 
the completion of a great act of national justice. It is 
not in the triumph of virtuous and holy enterprise. It is 
not in the ceasing of the lash. It is not that the last se- 
verance between husband and wife, and mother and 
child, has taken place. It is not that the slave has now 
free power of locomotion and entire control over the 
labor of his hands, or the skill of his intellect. These 
are great things — but there is a greater. The Son has 
made the slaves free, and they are free indeed. These 
are but the outward tokens of a new inward birth. The 
mind has been emancipated ; the will is unshackled. He 
who before was in the social frame as though he had no 
mind to guide him and no soul ttf save, is now as free to 
think, determine, and act as the master whose yoke he 
bore. He has entered on the great heritage of humanity, 
its inalienable birth-right, — liberty of thought and action. 
The movements of his will are henceforth unimpeded by 
outward appliances. Hence will arise a consciousness 
of power, which will give birth to self-respect, and self- 
respect is the parent of every virtue. His cry, and 
the cry of injured and wounded benevolence, have gone 
up to God, and lie has sent his word and broken down 
the barriers which kept the slave out of the sphere of hu- 
manity ; and now those islands which have so long echoed 
with the shrieks or moaned with the subdued murmurs 
of suffering thousands, will calmly and joyously take 
their position in the career of individual and national 
improvement. Humanity will resume its rights in the 
bosom of its inhabitants ; and the outgrowth of the kind- 
lier human feelings in every breast, is the awakening of 
the inspiration of the Divinity. New and powerful im- 
pulses will be felt, holier aims will be formed. The 
whole acdon of the mind will be more intense and effi- 
cient. First of all, natural affection will become more 
pure, tender, and operative. Domestic ties will be dearer 
in their bonds, and more impulsive in their influence. 
Out of the felt relations of the parental character, personal 



14 

virtues will take a new meaning, receive a fresh life, eX" 
pand to fuller energy, and issue in nobler results. And 
social virtue is but a reflexion of domestic and personal 
excellence ; hence truth, justice, and mercy. While 
the religious sentiment, long repressed and almost over- 
powered, will start forth into vigor, and assume its 
natural control over the heart and the life. Thus the 
interests of eternity, as well as those of time, are compre- 
hended in the good we now commemorate. A nation 
has been new born for all the higher purposes of humanity. 
The mild and benignant aspect of the schoolmaster, and 
the holy and affectionate countenance of the minister of 
Jesus Christ, glowing mth thankfulness at the sight of 
the new creation, will be seen in the place of the fierce 
and malignant slave-driver, with his frightful instruments 
of torture, and detestable retinue of attendants. Even 
the face of the country wiU shine with a more smiling 
and brighter glow. Industry, enterprise, skill, will bring 
each its share of effort for the increase of individual and 
general good. The usual haunts of men mil be busier 
and happier. New cities will come into being. Com- 
merce will multiply its resources. The arts of life will 
be cultivated, the aid of the sciences will be sought; and 
ere long, the refinements of civilized existence will 
address the imagination, or kindle the heart, or rouse 
and stir the intellect. 

I exult in the change. I anticipate the future with 
delight. I do not, indeed, suppose that the good will be 
unmingled. Too terrible has the evil been to allow the 
good to be realized apart from some disorder, and some 
distress. But reason enough is there for the friends of 
humanity to congratulate each other in the mere recogni- 
tion of brotherhood, which the extinction of slavery im- 
plies. It is now practically allowed that the slave has 
rights. This admission, made on so large a scale, made 
by so powerful a people, will have an effect on slavery 
throughout the world. Our trans-atlantic brethren have 
already felt the appeal. They will feel it yet more 
powerfully. The slave in their own country is becoming 
aware of the admission, and before many years slavery 
will either be destroyed in the TTnited States, or, — which 



15 

God avert — it will bring desolation and dismay over that 
flourishing and happy country. that they may learn 
the things which belong to their peace, and wipe out in 
time this foul stain on their national character ! 

The admission will go forth, working less obvious, 
but most important results. Servitude of all kinds has 
been shaken to its base. 'I saw Satan, like lightning, 
fail from heaven' — the Saviour's exultation may be again 
taken up. Individuals — nations— are awakening to a 
sense of their common brotherhood ; and when this recog- 
nition is complete^ each one will know and maintain his 
own rights, and know and respect the rights of his neigh- 
bor. Already men are beginning to feel that liberty 
stands not in any form of government, nor freedom from 
outward control, but in the self-moved action of an en- 
lightened mind, and in a benevolent and holy heart. 
The Son is making the nations free, and when imder the 
influence of his truth, they will be free indeed. 

Meanwhile, great is the work which has to be done. 
Many relations of life are but imperfectly understood, 
and, consequently, the duties connected with them are 
either neglected, or insufficiently discharged. What 
jealousy and heart-burning is there between the em- 
ployer and employed in our own country. Agitation, 
combination, threats, even violence, are employed ; and 
nov/ the master is in servitude, and now the men. Yet 
are they brothers, their interests not incompatible, their 
duties reciprocal, their object the same, their means not 
dissimilar. Ignorance, and ill-feeling — its foster child — 
are the causes of the disturbance. Let force and fraud 
be discontinued ; let reason and fraternity assume their 
place ; let each seek the other's, as well as Ids own good, 
and the interests of all will be furthered. 0, that the 
spirit of brotherhood may descend on these agitated 
elements, bringing peace, liberty, and prosperity ! 

And how in religion can there be entire liberty, till 
the State has ceased to smile on one sect and frown on 
another ; till the path to honor and emolument ceases to 
be the narrow road of religious favoritism, and becomes 
the broad highway of social life ?• — And what are creeds 
but the manacles of churches ? Formes of belief are not 



16 

only moulds into which the intellect is pressed and 
crushed, but being made in each case essential passports 
to heaven, they prove cramps to the heart ; and thus 
bind the whole man in spiritual servitude. The power of 
the priesthood has, indeed, since the advent of Luther, 
lost much of its more gross and palpable influence. The 
thunders of the Vatican have long since been spent, and 
its Potentate, once the terror of Europe, is a poor old 
man, to be pitied and prayed for. But there is a reli- 
gious spirit abroad — its influence is not least in our 
own land — which by the employment of fear, the fear of 
error, the fear of hell, — fears which eventuate in the fear 
of the priest, — as effectually fetters, distorts, and paralyses 
the mind as the brute terrors of the Papacy of old. But 
bounds are set to its progress. In face of it stands in 
mild, but awful array, the great principles of the Gospel, 
that God is a Father, and men all brethren ; and I doubt 
not but that the Son will, in time, make the slaves of 
fear, free with the glorious liberty of the sons of God. 

And in private life there is many a bond which requires 
to be broken. Slavery stands in the servitude of the 
mind rather than the body; and wherever the right of free 
thought and free speech is interfered with, whether by 
act, deed or look, there is a spirit of oppression and a 
spirit of bondage. And how often do minds, conscious 
of superior power, lord it over their inferiors. How 
painfully do those who are more or less elevated in life, 
make their lowlier brethren feel the difference of their 
position. The pride of aristocracy, running through all 
grades, all shadows of all grades in social life, as it is both 
an inhuman and anti- christian feeling, infuses bitterness 
and excites jealousy and strife throughout the common- 
wealth. This is an ill bequest of heathen and feudal 
influences, from which Christianity has yet to free the 
world ; and in no country is the liberating efiicacy of the 
gospel more needed than in our own. Aristocracy in- 
volves the essential ideas of servitude; master and ser- 
vant; superior, inferior; patron, dependent: — they are 
different forms of the same thing, varying only in degree, 
and all are hostile to the rights of brotherhood and the 
designs of the C-ommon Father. This influence yet 



11 

oilers a formidable resistance to the gospel, and is likely 
to prove the last stronghold of the spirit of bondage unto 
fear ; but its doom is written in the councils of heaven, 
and its time will come. 

History is the basis of my hopes. The past is a pledge 
of the future. A new order of things has evidently come 
forth and begun its career. Christianity has infused a 
new spirit into society, by which it is working out its own 
regeneration. Ancient institutions with all their forms 
of bondage, are dissolving under its influence, and sending 
forth shoots and branches and foliage of finer proportions 
and nobler strength. The spirit of liberty consecrated 
in representative governments, recognised and honored in 
universal toleration, displayed in freedom and active 
energy of thought, softened, enriched and benevolently 
directed by the love of Christ, and carried on the pinions 
of Christian morality to the extremities of the earth and 
the very outcasts of society; — the spirit of liberty, — the off- 
spring of the great principles of the religion of Jesus, has 
informed the mind of the civilized world with elements of 
change and improvement, of which man has never before 
had experience, and gives promise of the approach of the 
period when war shall be no more, servitude no more, 
domestic and social tyranny no more : when injustice shall 
hide its head, the greater disparities of society disappear ; 
and in place of the rule of the lower passions, and the 
prevalence of outward law, and its associates fraud, force 
and punishment, there shall be peace and concord, and 
domestic and social love, and individual self-governing 
virtue ; each man being a law to himself, and o^vning no 
superior but conscience and God. This is the period 
which prophets foresaw and foretold: this is the realisa- 
tion of the kingdom of God, and the kingdom of Christ, of 
which the evangelical history gives us the assurance ; this 
is what every true disciple anticipates in fulfilment of the 
promise that the truth should make its followers fi-ee, and 
in answer to the yearnings of his heart, and the prayers 
he puts up to the wise and benign Governor of the Uni- 
verse. Then men shall no longer hurt or destroy in a]l 
God's holy mountain, for the knowledge of the Lord shall 
cover the earth as the waters cover the channels of the 



IS 

sea. Then rival sectarists will have no other aim than 
to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, and 
to labor together for the edification of the body of Christ. 
Then no distinctions will be acknowledged but such as 
character creates, and no character be esteemed, which is 
not distinguised by the virtues and graces of the gospel. 
Then freedom of thought will be fostered not cramped, 
and freedom of speech will be too generally practised to 
become the object of special attention. Then that man 
will be most esteemed who contributes most to the great 
treasury of human thought, who can most effectually touch 
the springs of human action, and kindle in the breast the 
ennobling and delightful sympathies of love and piety. 
Then domestic intercourses will be dignified by mutual 
respect, as well as endeared by the reciprocation of kind 
offices ; and from their homes worshippers will bring to 
the house of God mellowed social affections, and devout 
gratitude, steadfast trust, smiling hope, which they will 
lay on the altar of a common Father, and receive back 
again purified from the dross of earth, to become the 
living principles of their individual and relative existence. 
Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly; come, realize all 
these our hopes, our fervent desires ; and come not last 
into our own hearts, and there establish thy kingdom on 
everlasting foundations. 

AMEN. 



LOONEY, PRINTER, MANCHESTER. 



THE FOLLOWING PUBLICATIONS BY THE SAME 
AUTHOR, 

ARE ON SALE AT 

SMALLFIELD & SON'S, NEWGATE-ST., 

LONDOjNf; 

AND 

FORREST AND FOGG S, MARKET-STREET, 

MANCHESTER : — 

SERMONS DESIGNED TO BE USED IN FA- 
MILIES, contributed by the following Ministers :— Ee^/ds. 
Dr. Tuckerman, Boston, U. S.; Dr. Ledlie, Dublin; J. J- 
Tayler, B.A.: Noah Jones; the late J. H. Worthing ion ; 
J. E. Wreford; Henry Ware, M,A., Boston, U.S.; the 
late John Hincks; J. Johns; E. Higginson; G. Harris; the 
iate G, B. Wawne; M. Duby, Geneva; E. Tagart; J. R. 
Beard ; J. Parkman, Boston, U. S. ; Dr. Drummond ; the 
late Russell Scott; James Martineau; W. Turner; J. G. 
Robberds; W. Gaskell; M. Celerier, Geneva; W. J. Fox; 
M. Munier, Geneva; Dr. Carpenter; Dr. Montgomery. — 
Price 8s, 

A FAMILY PRAYER BOOK. Priee 5s. 

THE RISE, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT IN- 
FLUENCE OF WESLEY AN METHODISM. Price 6d. 

THE RISE AND PROGRESS IN THE UNITED 

STATES, within five and twenty years, of One Thousand 
Unitarian Congregations. Price Is. 

THE VISITOR OF THE POOR, from the Frenck 
of the Baron de Gerando, with an Introduction by Dr. 
Tuckerman, and a Preface by J. R. Beard. Price 3s. 

THE EXCELLENCE OF THE SON, as shown 
specially in his Death, the Cause of his Father's love towards 
him. Price 6d. 



THE CHRISTIAN TEACHER, designed to uphold 

the Religion of the New Testament in contradistinction to 
the Religion of Creeds and parties: Vol. 1, 2 and 3, each 
12s. 

A COLLECTION OF HYMNS for PubHc and Pri- 
vate Worship. Price 4s. The volume contains 560 Hymns, 
above 300 of which are original.— Among the contributors are 
— Mrs. Barbauld, Miss Emily Taylor, Mrs. Follen, Mrs. 
Giiman, Mrs. T. Jevons, Miss Roscoe, Miss Martineau; 
Revds. J. Taylor, E. Butcher, J. Brettell, J. R. Wreford, 
W. Gaskell, J. C. Wallace, J. Johns, H. Ware, J. Pier- 
point, S. G. Bulfinch, Dr. Bowring ; W. Roscoe, Esq., W. 
C. Bryant, Esq., and Sir J. E. Smith.— Hymns will be found 
in it on the following topics :- Old Age ; Autumn of Life ; 
Autumnal Warning; Baptism of a Child; Benefits of the 
Death of Christ ; Birth of an Infant ; New Birth ; Birth-day 
of an Aged Person ; Brotherhood of Christians ; Burial ; 
Child's Prayer for a Parent ; Parent's Prayer for a Child ; 
Christ's Baptism — Coming — Last Commands — Compassion — 
Cross — Crucifixion; Christ, the Day Star — Death of— our 
Guide — Lamentation over Jerusalem — our Life — Love of— ^ 
Meekness of — the Power of God — Poverty of— the Recom- 
pense of — his rule of Life —Resurrection of — Stilling the 
Tempest : — The Saviour — Sympathy with his sufferings — 
Teaching the People — His Union with God — Walking on 
the Sea :— Congregational Meeting; Meeting of Ministers; 
Death of the Christian, of the Righteous, of Friends, of the 
Aged, of a Minister, of a Father, of a. Mother, of a Brother, 
of a Sister, of a Young Child; Dedication of a Place of Wor- 
ship ; Doxologies; Family Meetings, Worship; Fellowship 
with Christ, with God ; Temperance Festival ; Love of Home ; 
Home Joys ; Home Sorrows ; Return Home from Travel ; 
Meetings for Religious Inquiry ; Mechanics' Institutions ; 
Prayer Meetings ; Communion of the Lord's Supper ; Settle- 
ment of a Minister ; Death of a Minister ; Ministry to the 
Poor; Marriage; The One Thing Needful; Pleasures of 
Benevolence ; Sin and Salvation ; Escape from Sin, Warnings 
against Sin. &c., &c. 



