Dfgitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/observationsonslOOwads 



B S E R FA r I N S 

ON THE 

SLAVE TRADEj 

AND A 

DESCRIPTION 

Of fome Part of the 

COAST of GUINEA, 

DURING 

A VOYAGE, 

Made in 1787, and 1788, in Company with 
DoSlor A. SPARRMAN and Captain ARREHENIUS^ 

B y 
C. B. WAD STROM, 

Chief DireElor of the Royal AJfay and Refining Office ; Member 
of the Royal Chamber of Commerce^ and of the Royal PatrioJc 
Society^ for Improving Agriculture^ Manifa^ures^ and Com^ 
merce in Sweden, 



%|t X) N D O 

old By mJJEs Phillips, ' 
b!Pd- Street, 1789. 



Printed and Sold Sy I^jes Phillips, George-Yardj Lom^ 



r^.0m^h^3 



-* -k- 



PREFACE. 



IN communicating to the publick the re- 
fult of my obfervatlons lately made in a 
voyage to the Coaft of Guinea, with two of 
my countrymen, it is not my intention, with- 
out fufficient reafon, to add to the number 
of publications which have lately enlightened 
Europe, on a fubjed: fo deferving her atten- 
tion, and in the impartial inveftigation of 
which flie is fo zealoufly employed. 

Animated with a defire of defending the 
caufe of fuffering humanity, I have no other 
end in view, than that of contributing fome 
fmall affiflance to the well concerted plans 
of others, by making known what my own 
experience has dictated ; in a word, to relate 
what I have feen, and to iliew, without vain 
pretences, what my ideas are, on a plan fo 
a 2 •' well 



iv PREFACE. 

well calculated to expand every heart that is 
now cherifhing a hope for its fuccefs. 

As the fubjefl: has been fo amply treated, 
my readers will not expedl to find novelty in 
every part of this tradl; but having been fo 
fortunately fituated, as to be enabled fully 
to inform myfelf of the nature of the flave 
trade ; of the manner in which the negroes 
are treated by the Europeans ; but more par- 
ticularly of the poffibility of improving, by 
cultivation, the fruitful foil of Africa, it 
fhall be my endeavour to treat thefe import- 
ant fubjefts in a manner interefting and 
new. 

In the prefence of the two mofl refpedl- 
able nations of Europe, would I were en-- 
dowed with powers to reprefent in colours 
fufRciently ftriking, the frightful picture I 
have formed to myfelf, of the above-men- 
tioned traffick, and thereby to prove, that 
thefe deteftable markets for human flefh, 
conftitute the laft flage of all falfe princi- 
ples ; the greateft of all abufes ; the inver- 
fion of all order ; and originate folely in that 

corruDted 



, P R E F A C E. r 

corrupted fyftem of commerce, which per- 
vades every civilized nation at this day. In 
facS, when the principles of commerce had 
been once diverted from the noble end of its 
inftitution, an inftitution which promoted 
the free circulation of commodities, the in- 
creafe of knowledge, and the wealth and 
profperity of nations, and when the fpirit of 
felf-intereft and monopoly firft perverted it 
from this univerfal end, which ought ever to 
have been kept in view, and confined it to 
particular nations, following infenfibly the 
fleps of its degradation, it became the mer- 
cenary objedt of individuals, feparate from 
the general good ^ could it then be a matter 
of furprize, that it fhould ultimately become 
fo debafed, as to regard man himfelf as a 
merchandife ? This deteftable abufe may be 
confidered as proceeding from a degenerate 
loVe of domifiion, and of pojjejjing the proper- 
ty of others ; which, inflead of diffufing 
the genial influence of benevolence and 
liberty, produces, in their ftate of inveriion, 
all the horrors of tyranny and flavery^ 

Perfuaded 



VI PREFACE. 

Perfuaded that the moment is now arrived, 
when mankind will begin to make a real ufe 
of their great fcientific acquirements, and of 
the multiplicity of their difcoveries ; per- 
fuaded that the evil, which begins to infedl 
mankind, has no other bafis than the exe- 
crable traffic, which is at this day jTo gene- 
rally carried on at the expence of human li- 
berty y and convinced at the fame time, of 
the exiftence of a Providence, which direds 
all things according to the univerfal end 
it propofes in its impenetrable decrees, and 
that we are but inftruments, by whom it exe- 
cutes its great deligns ^ convinced, I fay, of 
all thefe important truths, and inflamed with 
an ardent delire of affifting in the execution 
of this great and noble attempt, I am not 
only ready to devote my own perfon in this 
caufe, but alfo to excite all thofe in whofe 
breafl there ftill remains a fpark of huma- 
nity, to unite with prudence and adlivity, to 
accomplifh this grand work, which has for 
its end the extermination of every evil and 
Ja/fe principle, preparing the way for the re- 
ception of Goodnefs and Truths in every hu- 
man fociety. 

When 



PREFACE. vii 

When I refledt on the importance, the ex- 
tent, and the grandeur of this fubjeft, it gives 
me pain in being obliged to treat it in fo 
hafty and incorrecfl a manner; but prelTed 
for time, I truft my candid readers will re- 
ceive thefe few hints in good part, allowing 
for the neceffity of their appearing at this 
critical moment, when all the great focieties 
of Europe are fo ftrongly interefting them- 
felves in the tender caufe of humanity, lau- 
dably vying with each other in the honour 
of pleading at the bar of human fenlibility, 
in favour of the moft opprelTed nations in the 
univerfe. 

It may be expedient here to inform my 
readers, that I intend to publifh a more cir- 
cumftantial account of my voyage to the 
Coafl: of Guinea, when opportunity is afford- 
ed to prepare it for publick infpecflion; 
wherein I propofe to treat more fully on the 
geographical defcription of the country, on 
the manners, laws, and cuftoms of the differ- 
ent nations which inhabit thofe fhores ; 
moreover, to treat concerning the commerce 
now carried on, but more particularly, on 

that 



Vlll 



PREFACE 



that which may hereafter be eftablifhed witfl 
very great advantage. I alfo referve to myfelf 
the fatisfadion then of informing the pub-* 
lick, who was the auguft promoter of the 
enterprife I undertook, in concert with my 
two refpedable countrymen, and with what 
humanity France concurred with him in 
affifting us to perform the voyage. How 
providentially I was led to make obfervations 
on a fubjedl (I mean the abolition of the 
Have trade) which could only have been 
undertaken by a nation of fuch a character 
and power as that which I have now the 
honour to addrefs ! 

In expofing to the world the atrocious 
afts committed in that part of the globe to 
which I have been eye-witnefs, it is not im- 
probable, that both the nations and indivi- 
duals who have countenanced them, may 
confider the writer in the light of a fpy, and 
a divulger of thofe things which ought, in 
honour, to have been buried in filence. But 
if they can find no other appellation for the 
]uft and pure intentions of a friend to man- 
kind, who dares to expofe crimes and cruel- 
ties 



PREFACE. ix 

ties which the abufers of human right are 
guilty of, he theti accounts it an honour in 
difcharging the duty he owes to fociety, to 
be efteemed as fuch. But let it be well 
obferved> that herein he fpeaks from a 
refped: due only to truth, with a view to 
expofe Wkkednefs and Falfehood^ but not 
Nations or Individuals. 



CONTENTS. 



CONTENTS. 



SECT. I. 

On the Mode of procuring Slaves^ 
Chap. I. War ^ - - Page i 

Chap. II. PiLjpAGE . - ^ 7 

Chap. III. Of Robbery - - 17 

Chap. IV, TiiEACHERY or Stratagem 22 

SECT, II- 

OJ' the Manner in which the Negroes are treated 
by the Europeans. 

Chap. I. Negroes confidered as Traders 26 
Chap. II. Negroes confidered as Slaves 28 

SECT. IIL 

Whether the Negroes are naturally inclined t^ 
Indujlry. 

Chap. I. In Foreign Countries 31 

Chap. II. In THEi^ OWN Country 31 

SECT. IVo 



O B S E R V A T I O N S 

O N T H E 

S LAVE TRADE, &c. 

SECT. I. 

On the Mode of procui^ing Slaves, 



CHAP. I. 
W A R. 

AMONG the various fources, from 
whence the Europeans are fupplied 
with flaves on the coaft of Africa, I fhall 
firft reckon that of War. 

The JVars which the inhabitants of the 
interior parts of the country, beyond Senegal, 
Gambia, and Sierra Leona, carry on with each 

A other, 



( 2 ) 

Other, are chiefly of a predatory nature, and 
owe their origin to the yearly number of 
flaves, which the Mandingoes, or the inland 
traders fuppofe will be wanted by the veffels 
that will arrive on their coaft. Indeed thefe 
predatory incurlions depend fo much on the 
demand for flaves, that if in any one year 
there be a greater concourfe of European 
fhips than ufual, it is obferved that a much 
greater number of captives from the interior 
parts of the country is brought to market 
the next. 

The unhappy captives, many of whom are 
people of difl:in<flion, fuch as princes, priefl:s, 
and perfons high in ofEce, are conduced by 
the Mandingoes in droves of twenty, thirty, 
or forty, chained together, either to Fort 
St. Jofeph on the river Senegal, or Niger, in 
the country of Gallam, or to places near the 
river Gambia. But when the trade with the 
French on the river Senegal happens to be 
Hopped, (which was the cafe in 1787) they 
bring all their captives to the mouth of the 
Gambia, Sierra Leona, and other places down 
the coafl:. Thefe Mandingoes perform the 

whole 



( 3 ) 

whole journey, except at certain feafofis of 
the year, when they are met by the traders 
belonging to the coaft, who receive the flaves 
from them, and give them the ufual articles 
of merchandize in exchange. 

What I have hitherto faid, was taken 
from the beft accounts I could colled: both 
from the black and white traders, during 
my refidence upon the coaft. It is proper, 
however, that I fhould ftate fomething on 
this head, that has come within my own 
knowledge. 

The Moors, who inhabit the countries on 
the north of the River Senegal, are parti- 
cularly infamous for thefe predatory Wars. 
They crofs the river, an,d attacking the ne- 
groes, bring many of them off. There are 
not a few who fubfift by means of thefe un- 
provoked excurfions. The French, to en^ 
courage them in it, make annual prefents to 
the MooriQi kings. Thefe are given them 
under certain conditions, firft, that their 
fubjeds Ihall not carry any of their gum to 
the Englifh at Portendic^ and, fecondly, that 
A 2 they 



( 4 ) 

they {hall be ready, on all occafions, to furnifli 
{laves. To enable them to fulfil this laft ar- 
ticle, they never fail to fupply them with 
ammunition, guns, and other inftruments of 

War. 

To confirm what I have now faid, I fhall 
put down the following example : 

The king of Almammy had, in the year 
1787, very much to his honour, enadled a 
law, that no flave whatever ihould be marched 
through his territories. At this time feve- 
ral French veffels lay at anchor in the Sene- 
gal, waiting for flaves. The route of the 
black traders in confequence of this edidi.of 
the king, was flopped, and the flaves carried 
to other parts. The French, unable on this 
account to complete their cargoes, remon- 
ftrated with the king. He was, however, 
very unpropitious to their reprefentations, 
for he returned the prefents which had been 
fent him by the Senegal company, of which 
I myfelf was a witnefs ; declaring, at the 
fame time, that all the riches of that com- 
pany fhould not divert him from his 

defign. 



- ( 5 ) 

dejfign. In this fituation of affairs, the 
French were obliged to have recourfe to 
their old friends, the Moors. Thefe, who 
had before fhewn themfelves fo ready on fuch 
occalions, were no lefs ready and acSive on 
this. They fet oiF in parties to furprife the 
unoffending negroes, and to carry among 
them all the calamities of War, Many unfor- 
tunate prifoners were fent, and for fome time 
continued to be fent in. I was once curi- 
ous enough to wifli to fee fome of thofe that 
had jufl arrived. I applied to the Director 
of the company, who condudied me to the 
flave-prifons. I there faw the unfortunate 
captives, chained two and two together, 
by the foot. The mangled bodies of feve- 
ral of them, whofe wounds were ilill 
bleeding, exhibited a mofl fhocking fpedla- 
cle ; and their fituation may be much eafier 
conceived than deferibed. The Diredor of 
the company, however, ufed his befl endea- 
vours to confole them. 

This is a fpecifick inflance, clearly fhew- 

ing that one War at leajl was undertaken 

for the fole purpofe of procuring flaves. I 

A 3 , cannot. 



( 6 ) 

cannot, however, help obferving, that if no 
fuch inftance as this had come within my 
knowledge during my ftay in thofe parts, I 
iliould yet have thought myfelf juftifiable in 
fuppofing, that the JVars among the negroes 
originated in the Have trade. For in all the 
obfervations I have been able to make (and 
I went to the coaft of Africa, not with any 
commercial views, but for the fole purpofe 
of inquiry and obfervation) I have ever con- 
iidered the negroes as a quiet, inoffenfive peo- 
ple, happy in themfelves, and in one another, 
enjoying the comforts of life, without the in^ 
tervention of toil and trouble. If, therefore, 
J had found Wars among a people of fuch 
difpofitions, and fo fituated as to have no 
motive for them, I fhould certainly have fet 
them down, as having been excited for fome 
diabolical purpofe, and for none fo likely as 
for the profecution of the flave-trade. 



CHAP. 11. 



( 7 ) 

CHAP. II. 
PILLAGE. 

A fecond fource, from whence the Euro- 
peans are fupplied with flaves on the coaft of 
Africa, is Fillage^ which is of two kinds ; 
publick or private. It is publick, when 
praftifed by the direction of the kings, pri- 
vate, when pradifed by individuals. I muft 
alfo make a further diftind:ion, namely, as it 
is praftifed by the blacks and the whites. 
This laft I call Robbery, which will be the 
fubjed: of the next article. 

The publick Tillage is, of all others, the 
moft plentiful fource, from which the flave 
trade derives its continuance and fupport. 
The kings of Africa (I mean in that part of 
the country which I have vilited) incited by 
the merchandize fliewn them, which confifts 
principally of ilrong liquors, give orders to 
their military to attack their own villages in 
the night. Saturday night is particularly 
fixed upon for this purpofe, being efteemed 
A 4 the. 



( 8 ) 

the mofl: lucky for expeditions of this kind. 
However, when flaves are wanted in hafte, 
no night is deemed fo inaufpicious as to pre- 
vent an attempt. 

As I have been myfelf an eye- witnefs to 
feveral of thefe nodlurnal expeditions, it will, 
perhaps, be better to illuftrate this kind of 
Pillage by fome examples. 

The French make prefents to the negro 
as well as the Moorifh kings. It happened 
when I was at Goree, that an ambaffador 
was to be fent from thence to the king of 
Barbelin on this errand. I obtained leave 
with my fellow travellers to accompany the 
embaify. We accordingly fet out, and arri- 
ved at Joal, a place where the king relides at 
particular times of the year, viz. when the 
trading velTels arrive there. 

It is ufual, on the receipt of thefe prefents, 
to fend back a number of flaves in returhi 
It fo happened, however, that the king of 
Barbefin had no flaves in his poflTejOion at that 
time. This circumftance it was, that afford- 
ed 



( 9 ) 

ed me an opportunity of feeing the expedi- 
tions before mentioned. 

We refided, I believe, about a week at Joal. 
During our rejfidence there, the Pillage, of 
which I have been fpeaking, was attempted 
almoft every night. The following is a de- 
fcription of the perfons concerned in it, and 
of their various fuccefs. 

There were feveral parties of the military, 
affembled at fix in the evening, or about dufk. 
Each party confifted of about ten or twelve. 
A large horfeman's mufket was refted on 
each of their faddles, in the fame man- 
ner as thofe of the Englifli heavy cavalry. 
On their fhoulders were fufpended a bow, 
and a quiver full of arrows. Thus equipped, 
they went to different villages belonging to 
the king, and returned ufually about five in 
the morning, or a little before day-light. 

In fome of their attempts they returned 
without a fingle flave. In others they were 
more fuccefsful. At one time in particular 
they came back with but one captive. This 

was 



( lO ) • 

was a beautiful young negrefs, from one of 
the king's own villages. She was immedi- 
ately delivered, notwithftanding her tears and 
cries, to the French ambaflador, whom we 
accompanied, and, by his order, was catried 
on board. 

It was fortunate however for her, that {he 
belonged to one of thofe families, which, in 
confequence of their birth, are exempted by 
the laws of the country from flavery. This 
occafioned a commotion ; for the adlion ap- 
peared to the minds of the people, to be fo 
unjuft and repugnant to the eftablifhed laws, 
that they were nearly on the point of rebel- 
ling. The king, when he came to his fenfes 
(for he had given his orders refpefting the 
feizure of this girl in a ftate of intoxica- 
tion) faw in fo lively a manner the confe- 
quences of this rafh proceeding, that with 
the moft abjed fubmiffion, he defcended to 
prayers and intreaties with the owner, to 
return the innocent and unfortunate girl. 
The Frenchman, though furrounded by 
more than two thoufand negroes at the time, 
and though the embaffy, including myfelf 

and 



( " ) 

and fellow-travellers, conlifted but of five 
white people, was fo madly obftinate, as for 
a long time to refufe his requeft ; I fay mad- 
ly, becaufe in all the adventures of my life, 
I had never fo much reafon to be alarmed 
for the prefervation of it. At length, after 
much intreaty, the king promifed him two 
others in exchange, whom he expefted to 
feize on a future expedition ^ and thus was 
the unhappy girl reftored to her difconfolate 
family. 

At another time, the military, who had 
been fent out to Pillage y returned with feveral 
captives. Thefe confifted of men, women, 
and children. The men, as they were 
brought in, exhibited marks of great dejec- 
tion. One of them, however, appeared to 
be quite frantick with grief. He befeeched 
his captors, with great fervency, that they 
would not tear him from his wife and child- 
ren. The women, on the other hand, vented 
their forrow in {hrieks and lamentations. The 
children, in a ftate of palpitation, clung to 
their mother's breafts. Their little eyes 
were fo fwelled with crying, that they could 

cry 



( 12 ) 

cry no more. During all this time, the cap- 
tors, to fliew their joy on the occalion, and 
to drown the cries of their unfortunate fel- 
low-fubjed:s, were beating large drums. 
To this was added, all the noife that could 
be colleded from the blowing of horns, 
and the human voice. Taking in the 
fhrieks and agony of the one, and the fhouts 
and joy of the other, with the concomitant 
inftruments of noife, I was never before wit- 
nefs to fuch an infernal fcene. 

What I have faid of the king of Barbefin's 
condud with refpecfl to the mode of procur- 
ing flaves, is equally applicable to thofe other 
kings of the country, of whom I have any 
knowledge. King Darnel, whofe dominions 
lie between Portudal and Senegal, wanting 
a Have to deliver in exchange for fome goods 
he had bargained for with a Goree trader, 
ordered his foldiers to feize on one of his 
own fubjefts. Finding a woman (whofe 
hulband was abfent) in a hut with her chil- 
dren, they feized her, bound her, and tore 
her from her babes, who were rejedled, as 
not being able to perform the journey down 

to the fhore. 

The 



( 13 ) 

The king of Sallum, though he never 
taftes any fpirituous liquors-, lias recourfe to 
the fame pradice, as if by the common con- 
fent of the kings of Africa, thefe were the 
meafures to be invariably purfued. The 
articles, moft in demand vv^ith this king, are 
Spanifli dollars, and Dutch gourds. Both 
thefe he caufes to be melted down, and then 
to be worked into chains, bracelets, and other 
ornaments for himfeif and his favourites. 
Having fixed an extraordinary value upon 
thefe, he will at any time depopulate a village 
to obtain them. Such are the efteds of ava- 
rice, when it has the power of gratification. 

The vefTels employed in the trade to 
lum, by the mulattoes of Goree, are 
generally Hoops. With thefe they go up 
the river, and arrive in about three days. 
Their ftay there is very uncertain. It is in 
general from one to four weeks, according as 
the king is fuccefsful or not in thofe Pillages 
which he attempts for the fake of procuring 
flaves. When the traders have completed 
their cargoes, they return to Goree, where 
they deliver them, in about eight days. The 

flaves. 



( H ) 

flaves, fo delivered, are flilpped off, by the 
firft opportunity, to the French colonies. 

In fpeaking of thefe floops, I cannot re- 
frain from mentioning an inftance which 
came under my own eye. A trading mu- 
lattoe of Goree, whofe name was Martin, had 
obtained from the king of Sallum, by means 
of the publick Pillage before defcribed, a 
floop full of captives. The greater part of 
them were women and children. Notwith- 
ftanding this, they had been thrown into the 
lloop as if they had been articles of lumber, 
and devoid of feeling. Obliged, moreover, 
from too clofe a ftowage, to lie on the ine- 
qualities and protuberances of the bare 
planks, without being able to change their 
pofition, they had in the courfe only of eight 
days (which I ftated to be the time of the paf- 
fage from Sallum to Goree) been very mate- 
rially hurt : for, when I faw them brought 
out of the floop, they had feveral contufions 
on various parts of their bodies, and in others 
their flefh was feverely cut. A poor child 
in particular, about two years old, had a very 
deep wound in his fide, made in the manner 

above 



( 15 ) 

above ftated. He lay afterwards, upon being 
landed, with the wound contiguous to the 
ground, fo that the fand getting Into It, 
put him to exqullite pain. I mention this 
inftance, only to give an Idea of what are 
thought to be rooms of accommodation for 
flaves, and of that Inhumanity, which natu- 
rally fprlngs out of the profecution of this 
trade. 

Before I clofe my account of the publick 
Pillage^ I muft not forget to mention, that 
the kings of thofe parts, (except the king of 
Sallum) never openly profefs the right, which 
they thus unjuftly ufurp over the lives and 
liberties of their fubjefts. For this reafon 
they plan their expeditions In fuch a manner, 
that they muft arrive at the place they Intend 
to Pillage^ In the dead of the night. It is 
Impoffible, therefore, for their fubjedts, 
in fuch a cafe, to difcover who are the in- 
ftruments of thofe afts of violence ; and they 
may with greater reafon fuppofe, that they 
were perpetrated by a roving banditti, than 
by the diredtion of their own kings. 

I come 



( i6 ) 

I come now to the private Pillage. This 
IS pradifed by individuals, who, tempted by 
the merchandize brought by the Europeans, 
lie in wait for one another. For this purpofe 
they befet the roads, and other places, fo that 
a travelling negro can hardly ever efcape 
them. To enumerate the many inftances 
of this private depredation that happen, 
would be an endlefs taflc. I ihall therefore 
felecft but one, which, on account of the 
circumftances that followed, may ftrike the 
reader as fingular. 

A Moor had feized a free negro, and, 
having fecured him, he brought him to Se- 
negal, and fold him to the company. A few 
days afterwards this moor was taken by fome 
negroes in the fame manner, and brought 
to be fold in his turn. The company fel- 
dom buy moors : but as they were obliged, 
in confequence of their privileges, to fupply 
the colony of Cayenne with a certain number 
of flaves, and as feverai fhips then in the 
road, in confequence of the king of Almam- 
my's edid, as before related, could not com- 
plete their cargoes, they made the lefs fcruple 

to 



( 17 ) 

to buy liim oh this occafion. Chance fo di- 
redted, that the moor, after he had been 
purchafed, was carried on board the fame 
fhip, in which the negro lay. They no 
fooner met, than a quarrel took place be- 
tween them, which occafioned, for fome days, 
a great tumult in the veffel. Such rencounters 
frequently happen in the flave-fliips, and the 
uproars, occafioned by them, are feldom or 
never quieted, till fome mifchief has been 
done« 

CHAP. IlL 



0/ R O B B E R r. 

i have been hitherto defcribing the Pillagt^ 
as it is either publick or private. I have 
alfo confidered it as praftifed by the blacks 
upon one another. I come now to fpeak of it, 
as it is pradtifed upon thefe by the whites ; 
and this I call Robbery. 

It is too well known, at lead oh fome 
parts of the coaft, that the Europeans have 

B not 



( i8 ) 

not failed, when opportunity prefented it- 
felf, to feize the unfufpicious natives of 
Africa, and to carry them by force to their 
own colonies. 

This is ufually praftifed by the Europeans, 
where they have no fettlements ; fo that the 
fadl generally efcapes the notice of their 
countrymen; I mean principally up the 
rivers, where they have ventured to pene- 
trate for the purpofe of a more advan- 
tageous trade. At fuch places, they compel 
the negroes to deliver them hoftages, whom 
they keep on board. The truce being con- 
cluded, the unfufpicious natives embark with 
confidence, and repeatedly vifit the veffel 
without any kind of fufpicion or fear. But, 
if the wind fhould be at all favourable, none 
of the European monfters, who are engaged 
in this trade, fcruple to fet fail, and to 
carry away not only the free negroes, who 
have come on board to trade, but the hoft- 
ages alfo, in defiance of the law of nations 
and common honefty. 

Thefc 



( ig ) 

Thefe tranfadions are not only Iniquitotss 
in themfelves, and therefot-e derogatory from 
the charadier of a civilized nation, but are 
often fo fatal in their confequences, that 
thofe> who perpetrate them, have a claim 
to the appellation of devils rather than 
men* For it may eafily be fuppofed, that 
the relations and friends of thofe, who have 
been thus fraudulently carried off, will fpare 
no pains to retaliate. This is generally the 
cafe. The next ihip that vifits the coaft> 
is perhaps cut oft". Thus, to a villainous 
aftion, is fuperadded the guilt of be- 
coming inftrumental to the murder perhaps 
of their own countrymen^ and at any rate 
of occafioning the innocent to undergo the 
puniihment of the guilty* 

When I was at Goree, in the year 1787^ 
accounts came down by fome French mer- 
chantmen from the Gambia of the follow- 
ing particulars. 

The captain of an Englifh fhip, which 

had been fome time in that river, had enticed 

feveral of the natives on board, and, finding 

B 2 a favourable 



( 20 ) 

a favourable opportunity, failed away with 
them. His veffel however was, by the di- 
redion of Providence, driven back to the 
coaft from whence it had fet fail, and was 
ob'iged to caft anchor on the very fpot where 
this ad: of treachery had been committed. 
At this time two other Englifh vefTels were 
lying in the fame river. The natives, ever 
lince the tranfadion, had determined to 
retaliate. They happened, at this juncture, 
to be prepared. They accordingly boarded 
the three veiTels, and, having made them- 
felves mafters of them, they killed moft of 
their crews. The few who efcaped to tell the 
tale, were obliged to take refuge in a neigh- 
bouring French factory. Thus did the in- 
nocent fuffer the fame punifhment as the 
guilty ; for it did not appear that the crews 
of the other two veffels had been at all con- 
cerned in this villainous meafure. 

Thefe particulars, as I obferved before, 
had found their way down to us at Goree, 
and, from the channels through which they 
came, I had no reafon to queftion their truth. 

It 



( 21 ) 

It IS remarkable, however, that, though 
I wanted no confirmation of them in my 
own mind, yet, fince my arrival in London, 
I have heard them fully fubftantiated : for 
I dined lately by accident with a certain un- 
derwriter, to whom undelignedly relating 
the time, place, and other circumftances 
of this tranfaftion, I found that I had only 
been defcribing the fate of certain veffels, 
which, to his knowledge, had been cut off 
in the fame part of the world, and at the 
fame feafon, 



B 7 CHAP, 



{ " ) 

C H A p. IV. 

Of TREyiCUERr or STRArAGEM. 

The various other ways in which flaves are 
obtained, may be included under the words 
'Treachery or Stratagem^ being only fo many 
different modes of the fame pradlice. One 
or two inliances will^ I hope, fuffice, as I dp 
not wifli to take up the reader's time more 
than is neceflary, and as he will be en- 
abled by them to judge of the reft. Be- 
fides, the ftratagems which the traders daily 
praftife to get flaves, are fo numerous^ that 
it v^ould take a volurne to recount them. 

A French merchant of Goree landing 
at a village, obferved an handfome well- 
made negro. He immediately made appli- 
cation to the chief of the village to feize 
him. On the propofal of the chief, the 
people unanimoufly agreed to grant his re- 

quefl: 



( 23 ) 

queft: for it is a law in thofe parts, that 
if all the village confent, any vilitor refiding 
among them may be made a flave. To gain 
the confent of a whole village on fuch an 
occafion, is by no means difficult. The 
Africans in general, like other people in the 
fame unimproved ftate, are governed by their 
paffions, and the prince has only to diftribute a 
fufficient quantity of fpirituous liquors among 
them to produce the effed: he wifhes for. 
Such was the cafe in the prefent inftance; 
and the unfortunate negro, though he was 
their neighbour and vifitor, was taken and 
fent into ilavery. His wife, having heard of 
his capture, came down bathed in tears. She 
begged to be bought, that fhe might go 
with him, and fhare his fate. But the 
dealer who bought him, had probably no 
goods at the time, and her intreaties were 
ineffeftual. 

The king of Sallum, under pretence of 

wanting millet, enticed from a neighbouring 

village a negrefs, who had a quantity to dif- 

pofe of. Elated with the profped of fell- 

B 4 ing 



( 24 ) 

ing it to advantage, ihe did not confider the 
imprudence of the ftep {he was about to take. 
She accordingly went to the king, who not 
only immediately deprived her of her millet;,^ 
but fei:^d her, and fold her for a flaye. 

I cannot clofe my account of the different 
ipethods daily pradlifed to obtain flaves, with- 
out giving an inftance, that will (hew, in a 
very glaring light, the bad tendency of the 
flave trade, and the baneful efFeds it pro- 
duces on the human heart. 

One of the Mooriih kings had received 
from the diredlor of the company of Senegal, 
the predepeflbr of him who now occupies 
that poft, the ufual prefents, in confequence 
of which he was bound to procure flaves« 
Having been rather dilatory in the perform- 
ance of his engagement, he was applied to by 
the direftor, who reprefented to him the pref- 
fing wants of the company. The king, thus 
urgently preffed, offered him a certain negrq 
on account. This negro was none other than 
his own minifter,whohad been his confidential 

friend 



( 25 ) 

friend and faithful advlfer for many years- 
The diredlor, lliocked at the circumftance, 
endeavoured to point out to him the impro- 
priety of his condudt, but his reprefentations 
were ineffedlual. The negro, in whofe pre- 
fence the offer was made, finding that his 
unworthy mafter was obftinately bent upon 
his defign, ran up to him, drew his dagger, 
and plunging it into his own breaft, ex- 
claimed, *' Thou favage! I fhall have the 
fatisfaclion of expiring, before thou canft 
reap any advantage from thy bafe ingratitude 
to the beft of feryants/' 

I have now finiihed my fedtion on the 
mode of procuring flaves, and I fliould have 
b»een made much happier by my vifit to the 
coaft of Africa, if no fuch inftances had 
occurred, as I have felt myfelf obliged to 
communicate to the reader. 



SECT, 



( 26 ) 



SECT. II. 



Of the Manner in which the Negroes are 
treated by the Europeans. 



C H A P. I. 

Of the Negroes confdered as TRADERS. 

Self-intereft, the principle of all commerce, 
appears in the very bafeft point of view, 
when confidered, with a reference to the in- 
tercourfe fubfifting between the white and 
the black nations. The fraud and violence 
which the ftronger generally imagine they 
have a right in trade to exercife towards the 
weaker, compel the latter in their turn to 
have recourfe to praftices equally bafe and 
cruel. Such is the true pidture of the low 
cunning and barbarity which the whites 
praftife towards the negroes, and thefe laft 
towards their own people. 

In 



( 27 ) 

In fuch myfteries of iniquity, the Europe- 
ans have a decided advantage over the untu- 
tored African nations; and thus pradlife their 
villainous artifices v^ith impunity. The moft 
defpicable juggling tricks areufedin meafuf- 
ing or reckoning the commodities bartered 
with the negroes. Thus for example, inftead 
of the bottles and barrels fliewn and ap- 
proved of, others are fubftituted apparently 
of the fame fize, but containing lefs perhaps 
by one half. Advantage is taken of the 
difficulty V7ith which the negroes reckon be- 
yond ten, and thus the accounts are confu- 
fed, and they are deprived of the greater part 
of the commodities bargained for. The wine 
and fpirits, famples of which the negroes 
had tafted pure, are afterwards adulterated 
with water. They are defrauded in all forts 
of weights and meafures ; and, that the Euro- 
pean adepts in villainy may play off their 
tricks with fuccefs, they previoufly take care 
to intoxicate the unfufpeding negroes, an4 
by this means fafcinate their fenfes in 
fuch a manner, as to multiply or mag- 
nify every article fet before them. Thefe 
ways of trading are efteemed the moft modeft 

that 



( 28 ) 

that can be pradlifed, and there is not a An- 
gle European who fcruples in the l^aft to 
have recourfe to them on all occalions. | 
have repeatedly beeri an eye-witnefs of fuch 
villainy. 

CHAP. IL 

Of the Negroes confidered as SLA FE S. 

On the coaft of Africa there are two de- 
fcriptions of flaves, namely, the immediate 
defcendants of flaves, and tbofe who are re- 
duced to flavery in the different ways I have 
defcribed. The fornier are feldom fold, ex- 
cept for theft, but the moft trivial tranfgref- 
fion of this kind is often made a pretext for 
felling them. At Goree I was prefent at 
feveral publick fales of young women,* who 
were fold for adls of petty larceny, which 
fcarcely deferved the name of crimes. The 
treatment thefe lafl: experience is mild, when 
compared to that of the wretches, who are 
cnflaved by force or fraud, and who are treat- 

* The treatment the fex experience from the white tra- 
ders on all occafions, is fuch, as decency forbids me to 
^efcribc. 



( 29 ) 

ed exaflly like wild beafts. They are con- 
fined in prifons or dungeons, refembling 
dens, where they lie naked on the fand, 
crowded together and loaded with irons. In 
confequence of this cruel mode of confine- 
ment, they are frequently covered with cuta- 
neous eruptions. Ten or twelve of them 
feed together out of a trough, precifely like 
fo many hogs. There is even lefs care taken 
of them than of brutes, while they are con- 
fined in thefe horrid receptacles, and, till 
they are flowed away in the flave veffels, 
to be fent from the coaft ; nor are they worfe 
treated on board, if we may credit fome 
accounts, 

I am very forry that humanity obliges me 
here to divulge a moft barbarous praftice, 
frequently ufed by the French traders in the 
Middle Paffage. I have been aflTured by feve- 
ral of their merchants and captains, that 
when detained by calms, or contrary winds, 
occafioning a fhortnefs of provifions and wa- 
ter i or when fome fatal difeafe happens to 
break out among the flaves, they never fail to 
mix corrofive fublimate, or fome other adtive 

poifon 



( 30 ) 

polfon with their viduals, and thus cooly dif* 
patch the wretches committed to their charge. 
They affirm that it would be an aft of im- 
prudence to undertake fuch a voyage unpro- 
vided with poifonous drugs, and they boaft 
of being lefs cruel than the Dutch and the 
Englifh, who in fimilar circumftances throw 
the innocent viftims over-board without cere- 
mony.* 

Of the above cruel practice, my journal 
furniflies a melancholy inftance, communi- 
cated to me by Capt. L. of Havre de Grace. 
About two years ago, a flave veffel belonging 
to Breft, having been becalmed in the Middle 
Paffage, fell fhort of provifions and water. 
The Captain on this occafion had recourfe to 
poifon, by which fo great a number was daily 
difpatched, that of Jive hundred flaves, only 
twenty-one arrived at Cape Francois. 

• Since my arrival in London, this horrid pra£tice has been 
authenticated by the refp€(5lable authority of feveral French 
gentlemen. 

SECT, 



( 31 ) 



SECT. Ill 



Whether the Negroes are naturally inclined to 
Indujlry. 



C H A P. I. 

In FOREIGN COUNTRIES. 

From feveral experiments made on diffe- 
rent plantations in the Weft-Indies, it ap- 
pears, that negroes, when working, not by 
the day, but by tafk, have given convincing 
proofs both of ability and induftry,* 

C H A ?• 11. 

In THEIR OWN COUNTRT. 

As liberty and reafon, the two grand 
fprings of all human adtion, are not yet 

* A remarkable and well authenticated proof of the 
above intcrefting fad will be given at the end of this little 
tra6t. 

developed 



( 32 ) 

developed in thefe people, who have long 
remained in a ftate of infancy, folely becaufe 
their faculties have not been cultivated, in 
confequence of which their wants have 
been but few, it may perhaps be concluded, 
that thefe raw nations are incapable of civi- 
lization, but this opinion will foon vanifli 
on refledling, that the effeds produced 
muft entirely depend on the manner of 
forming their intelled:. New objeds ought 
to be prefented to them, in order to excite 
new defires, and to call forth thofe facul- 
ties, which have hitherto lain dormant, 
merely for want of exercife. Thus in the 
progrefs of their improvement it will be 
neceffary to introduce among them a pro- 
portionable degree of what we generally call 
luxury, by which I do not mean the abufe 
of the conveniences of life, which enervates 
mankind, but fuch moderate ufe of thofe 
conveniences, as will roufe them to adion. 

The behaviour of the king of Barbefin 
convinced me, that this ufeful degree of 
luxury might eafily be introduced among the 
people of the coaft. I gave him a pair of 

common 



( 33 ) 

common enamelled flave buttons, with which^ 
though ignorant of their ufe, he was infi- 
nitely delighted. On my fhewing him for 
what purpofe they were intended, he ap- 
peared much mortified that his fhirt had no 
button-holes^ but obferved that it differed 
in this refpefl: from that of a mulatto from 
Goree, with whom he infifted on exchanging 
fhirts in our prefence, a demand with which 
the man was forced to comply* Tranfported 
with his new ornaments, the king held up 
his hands to difplay them to the people. His 
courtiers foon furrounded my hut, intreating 
me to furniih them alfo with buttons, which 
I did with pleafure. This fondnefs of the 
natives for European baubles, proves that 
an advantageous commerce might be eftab- 
lifhed among them with very little trouble 
and expenfe. 

The condud of the prefent king (late 
grand marabou^) of Almammy, is more 
interefling to humanity, and evinces the firm 
manly charader of the negroes when en- 

* The marabous are the chief priells among the negroeSj' 
<ind are the only people Vv'ho can read and write Arabic, 

C lightened. 



< 34 ) 

lightened. His underftanding having beeil 
more cultivated in his youth than that of 
the other black princes, he has rendered 
himfelf intirely independent of the w^hites. 
He has not only prohibited the flave-trade 
throughout his dominions, but (in the year 
1787) vi^ould not fufFer the French to march 
their captives from Gallam, through his 
country. He redeems his own fubjefts when 
feized by the Moors, and encourages them 
to raife cattle, to cultivate the land, and to 
prad:ife all kinds of induftry. As grand 
marabou, he abftains from ftrong liquor, 
which, however, is not the general rule 
among that order ^ for fome who travel 
with the whites are not fcrupulous in this 
refpedt. His fubjeds, imitating his ex- 
ample, are much more fober than their 
neighbours. 

This proves to what degree of civilization 
thefe people might be brought, if with pru- 
dence and patience this great and noble en- 
terprize was once undertaken ; but without 
introducing fome degree of what we gene- 
rally call Luxury, this cultivation would, in 
my opinion, be intirely impracticable. To 

what 



( 35 ) 

^kat purpofe would the human underftand- 
ing be cultivated, if Luxury, by which I 
mean nothing more than the improvement 
of the conveniencies and comforts of life, 
did not keep pace with it ? The former in- 
deed could not take place without the latter. 
Uncivilized nations in general are led merely 
by animal inftind: to procure their fub- 
fiftence, but as foon as the underflanding 
begins to be enlightened, by means of re- 
fledlion upon what is agreeable to life, above 
mere neceffaries. Luxury muft of courfe be 
introduced."* 



* By Luxury, I underftand, all enjoyments beyond the 
neceflaries of mere animal life. Confequently to live in a 
civilized community is already a fort of luxury ; and if the 
cultivation of our underftanding be necelTary, we ought alfo 
to be indulged in the ufe of a word which is now fo gene- 
rally abufed* 



SECT. 



( 36 ) 

SECT. IV. 

DESCRIPTION of tie COAST. 



CHAP. I. 

CLIMATE. 

The climate of the coaft of Guinea, as of 
other countries, varies with the nature of the 
foil, its elevation or depreffion, the compa- 
rative ftate of its improvement, and other 
circumftances, perhaps not yet fufficiently 
inveftigated. The latitude of the place is 
by no means a certain criterion of its climate, 
fince even in the midft of the torrid zone, we 
meet with all poffible gradations of climate. 
The high lands of Camarons in particular, 
though only between three and four degrees 
diflant from the line, are covered with ever- 
lafling faow. 

It is the general opinion, that the moft 
unhealthy climates on the coaft, are thofe of 
Senegal and Juda, or, as it is called by the 
Englifh, Whidah. The neighbourhood of 
the banks of the River Gambia, however, 

which 



{ Z7 ) 

which has lately been much frequented, hath. 
httn found to be as unhealthy as thofe juft 
mentioned, efpeclally during the great rains, 
and immediately after their ceffation. In 
general it may be concluded, that low and 
marfhy fituations are very unfavourable to 
the health of the Europeans, who may ex- 
ped: the moft fatal confequences from irre- 
gularity, or excefs of any kind. But a due 
regard to temperance, and fuch moderate 
exercife as would not induce too violent a per- 
fpiration, would doubtlefs be the befl: means 
of guarding againft the effecSs of a fuddea 
change of climate. Thus the body would 
gradually accommodate itfelf to its new fitu- 
ation, as is adtually experienced by every one 
who duly attends to thefe precautions ; and 
this happy effed; takes place fooner or later, 
according to the weaknefs or ftrength of the 
ftranger's conftitution, as well as to the more 
or lefs manly education he may have received, 
and the habits he may have formed in the 
earlier part of his life. The intemperature of 
thofe climates may alfo be in fome degree re- 
fifted, by fixing one's habitation on an elevated 
fpot during the unhealthy feafon of the year. 
For my own part, although I arrived on the 

C 3 coail 



( 33 ) 

coaft during that feafon, I efcaped all the dif- 
eafes of the country. This I afcribe entirely 
to the cautious temperance I obferved. During 
a mortality which raged at Senegal while I 
w^as there, not a fingle gentleman or officer 
on fhore was attacked, but out of eleven Tai- 
lors belonging to the veffel in which I re- 
turned to Europe, fix were taken off in the 
fpace of a month. It muft be obferved, how- 
ever, that feamen, by the tyranny or negledl 
of the captains, by a bad or fcanty diet, and 
by the other hardftiips they undergo, are of- 
ten expofed to many caufes of difeafe, which 
do not affed perfons living regularly on 
fhore, and which will ever more or lefs at-- 
tend the fervice of monopolizing Companies, 
or individual merchants, who, regardlefe of 
the lives of meUy make gain the fole objedl of 
their fpeculations.* It is remarked, that Eu- 
ropeans of a flender habit are generally found 
to be the moft healthy on the coaft of Guinea. 

From what I have been able to colled:, it 
appears, that the rainy feafons follow the paf- 

fage 

* It is worthy of remark, that fince wine was fubftltuted 
for the brandy, which till within thefe laft three years was 
ferved out to the French troops on the coaft, they have been 
incomparably healthier. 



( 39 ) 

fage of the fun from the equator to either tro- 
pic, fo as always to prevail in thofe places 
where the fun is vertical. Eaft of Cape 
Palmas I am told they feldom fct in before 
June, when the fun returns from the northern 
tropic; but to the weftward of that Cape, 
and up the whole country, thofe feafons gene- 
rally commence within the month of May, 
and continue for three or four months. In 
the beginning of this feafon, the earth being 
fpftened with the rain, the negroes till and 
fow their ground, and after the return of dry 
weather, they gather in their crops, an occu- 
pation they feldom abandon, even though 
allured by the mofc advantageous commerce, 
I have fufficient reafon to believe, that were 
the coaft cultivated to the extent of which 
the foil in general is fufceptible, the climate 
would be much meliorated. 



CHAP. II. 

Of the Soil. 

The foil all along the coaft is very une- 
qual. From Cape Blanco down the coaft, 
to the River Gambia, it is in general very 
C 4 ^^^^Yj 



( 40 ) 

fandy, but as the fand confifts of broken 
/hells, covered in many places with a rich 
black mould, it muft be favourable to vege- 
tation. The moft barren places of this part 
of the country, except juft on the fea fliore, 
are covered with grafs and bufhes ; and where 
the black mould is found, the vegetation is 
luxuriant, and the trees of vaft dimenfions, 
I have remarked, that the mountains are 
generally compofed more or lefs of regular 
bafaltes, exhibiting remains of moft prodi- 
gious volcanoes, the eruptions of which 
greatly improve the foil around them. Hence 
the mountains and high grounds at Cape 
Emanuel, Goree, Cape Rouge, and other 
places lower dov^n, are commonly very fer- 
tile. Where rice thrives beft, the ground ii; 
general is low, marfhy, and unhealthy. 



CHAP. UL 

T^e Produdiions. 

Animal. The cattle on the coaft are fmal- 
ler than thofe of Europe, and not fo fat as 
thofe of England or Holland ; yet their flelh 
is very nourilhing, and they give milk in 

abundance. 



( 41 ) 

abundance. Their Inferiority appeared to 
me to be the efFedt of the carelefs and unikil- 
ful management of the negroes. I once faw 
four oxen fold for eighteen livres. They 
muft be raifed on the coaft, as foreign cattle 
do not thrive. Even thofe from the Cape 
de Verd Hands do. not anfwer on the coaft. 
The vv^hole coaft is abundantly ftocked with 
fheep^ hogs, and all forts of poultry, which 
propagate with aftonifliing rapidity. Fiihing 
and hunting are moft eagerly purfued by the 
negroes, who have, however, but a very 
grofs idea of any mechanical means of faci- 
litating thofe employments. Of the prodi- 
gious ihoals of numberlefs kinds of fifh, I 
could have formed no idea without having 
feen them with my ov/n eyes. Spermaceti 
whales abound on the coaft. In paffing from 
Goree to the Continent, diftant about five 
miles, I have often rowed through flioals of 
them, and have been under no fmall appre- 
henfions of their overfetting my canoe. 
Lower down the coaft the Englifti and Por- 
tugueze carry on a conliderable nihiery of 
thofe whales j and ambergris is found in fuch 
quantities on the coaft, that I have more than 
once km the negroes pay their canoes with 

it. 



( 42 ) 

it. Till lately the learned were at a lofs to 
which of the kingdoms of nature this pro- 
duction was to be referred, but they are now 
pretty generally agreed, that it is the excre- 
ment of the fparmaceti whales. 

Vegetable, The grafs is thick, and grows 
to a great height. The natives are oftea 
obliged to burn it, to prevent the wild beafls 
from harbouring in the fields, but it foon 
fprings up again. Millet, rice, potatoes, 
pulfe, and many other excellent vegetables, 
are cultivated on the coaft with very little 
trouble, and in a profulion perfe6lly aftonifh- 
ing to anEuropean. Such indeed is the plenty 
which prevails on the coaft, that all the 
European fhips are victualled, without the 
fmalleft inconvenience to the inhabitants. 
There is alfo abundance of the moft whole- 
fome and delicious fruit ; articles of no 
lefs confequence than thofe juft mentioned. 
Sugar-canes grow wild in many places, which 
with a little cultivation might be rendered 
extremely valuable and produdlive. The 
fame may be faid of the tobacco-plant. Se- 
veral fpecies of cotton are alfo fpontaneo.ufly 
produced by this excellent foil ; one of them 

may 



( 43 ) 

may be fpun without being carded, and aU 
moft without any preparation. The negroes 
Ipin it into very fine yarn, of which they 
make a good but narrow cloth,* 

Indigo of different kinds alfo grows wild, 
and in fuch quantities, as to be a very 
troublefome weed in the rice and millet 
fields. What a ftrange inverfion of nature 
does not man, actuated by the moft extrava- 
gant and moft ridiculous felfiflinefs, every 
where labour to eifed ? What neceffity is 
there for exiling this plant from the foil and 
climate which nature has affigned it, in order 
to tranfplant it into a country, where it is far 
from thriving fo well as in its native place, 
and wheie it fails every third or fourth 
year ? Dyers, who have tried the African in- 
digo, affirm, that it is better than that which 
is produced in Carolina and in the V/eft Indies. 
The fpecimens of cotton and indigo, v/hich 
I have brought with me from the coaft, have 
been carefully examined by people of fkill, 
and found to be of the beft quality. 

Gum 

* The firfl confiderable exportation of cotton and indigo 
from the Coaft to Europe, as far as I have been informed, 
was made in the year 1787, while I was at Goree, by a 
Prcnchman, who had refided fome time in that ifland. 



( 44 ) 

Gum IS another valuable article, and is not 
as fome imagine produced in the neighbour- 
hood of Senegal only^ it is alfo found on moll: 
parts of the coaft, though the negroes have 
not yet got into the praftice of colledting it, 
which they might do with very little trouble. 
My fellow-travejler. Dr. Sparrman, extraded 
a large quantity of the fap of a fmall but moft 
juicy tree, which grows in great abundance on 
the coaft, and expofmg it to the fun for a few 
hours, had the fatisfadtion to find it converted 
into an elaftic gum, equal in all refpedts to that 
which is known by the name of Indian rubber. 
The coaft alfo produces a great variety of the 
moft valuable and beautiful woods, many of 
which are fcarcely known even to our bota- 
nifts. I brought with me famples of four- 
teen fpecies, including one remarkable for 
its colour, v/hich is a very beautiful red. 
Among the different plants, which grow on 
the coaft, is a kind of aloes, of which the 
negroes make moft excellent ropes. Of 
feveral forts of roots and leaves they make 
mats and bafkets, and their manufadtures of 
this kind are really elegant -, — this being the 
principal art in which they appear to equal 
if not to excel the Europeans, 

Minerals^ 



C 45 ) 

Minerals, Except fome trifling and 

unfuccefsful attempts, made by Chevalier de 
la Brue, in the beginning of this century, 
the Europeans have never made any particu- 
lar fearch for Mmerals on the coaft, v^hich, 
however, it would be well worth while to 
attend to, efpecially as it is well known in 
what abundance gold is found in the inland 
parts, notwithftanding the negroes are very 
unfkilful in collefting it. An exadl and re- 
gular examination of the metallick produc- 
tions of the mountains, particularly thofe of 
Sierra Leona, and the adjacent country^ 
would certainly be an object of great im- 
portance. In Gallam is found a very tough 
and excellent kind of iron, and the negroes 
work it with much ingenuity.* 

* The mineralogical obfervations made by my fellow- 
traveller, Capt. Arrhenius, on that part of the coaft where 
we travelled, particularly refpefting the Volcanoes, will un- 
doubtedly prove very interefting, when he has leifure to 
put them in proper order for publication. 

OBSjERVATION.~/r^;^;75/ omit to mention in this 
place^ that Mr, Geoffroy de Villeneuve^ a young French officer^ 
and Jkilful naturaUjf^ who made a very extenfive journey in the 
year 1787 into the interior parts of the country above Goree^ 
wilt probably foon entertain the pub lick zuiih a faithful defer ip- 
tion thereof Jo much the more inter ejling^ as he has with indc" 
fatigable pains and deep knowledge^ examined the difpofition 
of the inhabitants^ and the nature of the country^ in a manner 
which certainly will do honour to the philofophy of this century, 

SECT. Y. 



( 46 ) 



S £ C T. V. 



bf the IMPEDIMENTS which will oppofe 
JEuropean Settlements on the Coajl of Guinea^ 



CHAP. h 

Fal/e Opinions. 

The diminution of the value of the Weft 
Indian Iflands will undoubtedly be the 
ftrongeft objedlion againft forming fettle- 
ments on the coaft of Guinea; but this 
objection, which is wholly refolvable into 
a narrow policy, founded on falfe and in- 
terefted principles, might be eafily obviated, 
if my neceflary brevity would permit me to 
enter on the difcuffion. To fuppofe that 
the European nations, which have Weft 
Indian colonies, would be injured by form- 
ing others in Africa, is juft as unreafonable, 
as to fuppofe, that a man's property would 

be 



( 47 ) 

be injured by putting him in poiTeffion of 
another eftate, in addition to that which he 
ah-eady enjoys. Allow the old colonies to 
"be leiTened in their value, the lofs will be 
more than compenfated to the mother 
country, by fettlements formed in an ex- 
tenlive region> which yields fpontaneoufly 
the tropical productions now fo much 
wanted in all luxurious and civilized com- 
munities. I met the whole force of this 
objeftion on the coaft, and perceived clearly 
that this circumftance alone had hitherto 
prevented the European governments front 
forming fettlements in Africa. I neverthe- 
lefs faw that fuch fettlements would be 
formed fooner or later, and that they could 
not fail to acquire ftrength, and to produce 
the moft folid advantages to any natioil 
pofTefled of them, efpecially to that which 
fhall firft undertake fo beneficial an enter- 
prize.^ 

But 

* That IC is ifecefTary for -z-free^ comrmrcial^ and laborious 
nation to look out for foreign fettlements, when population 
and inanufa6lured produ£ls encreafe in a fimilar proportion,' 
is a truth as evident as that without enlarging fpace for the 

former;^ 



( 4S ) 

But if even the beft monarchs be fur- 
rounded by courtiers, devoted to partial 
and avaricious views, under the illufive 
femblance of national intereft, can it be 
expected that the light of enlarged policy, 
diffipating the thick darknefs in which they 
are enveloped, will difpofe them to adopt 
plans exteniively beneficial to mankind, and 
conformable to the great law of creation ? 

Are 

former, 2,n^ fceking for an emporium for the latter, the pro- 
grefs of population and commerce muft necefiarily and of 
courfe ceafe. Hence found policy dictates that the govern- 
ment of fuch a nation ihould with the affeftionate care of a 
provident father, prepare proper places for receiving the 
fuperabundance of population and products — a principle 
which few mother countries feem to have obferved in the 
fettlement of colonies. In a future treatife the author will 
endeavour to fhew, that this fundamental miftake is the 
true caufe of the ruinous and unfupportable expence in 
v>^hich all the European colonies have involved their refpec- 
tive mother countries. He will propofe a plan, the adoption 
of which he is of opinion would efFedually prevent fuch 
ruinous confequences in any fettlement that may hereafter 
be eftablifhed by the Europeans. He will alfo enumerate 
the productions of the coaft of Guinea, and the European 
commodities preferred by tlie inhabitants, adding fome di- 
redions and cautions proper to be obferved in trading and 
converfmg with them, together with feveral other iatereft-. 
ing particulars. 



( 49 ) 

Are not the governments of the two moft 
flourifhing nations, England and France, 
who give laws to the reft of Europe, in- 
fluenced by powerful pofTeflbrs of the ancient 
colonies and opulent merchants of their pro- 
dudlions ? It is impoffible that informa- 
tion of ib delicate a nature fhould be ob- 
tained pure and unadulterated through the 
medium of furly, fordid planters and fugar 
factors, who are acting only from a vile 
felf-intereft,* 

* I cannot help here reflecting on the ftrange means the 
French employ for the encouragement of this execrable 
trade. They allow their merchants a bounty of 150 livres 
tournois for each flave they import into Cayenne and La 
Guyenne Fran^oife ; 100 livres for the fouthern parts of 4$*/. 
Domingo 5 80 livres for La Jeremie and its dependencies 5 
60 livres for 5/. Marie^ Leogane^ and Port au Prince ; and 
50 livres for Cape Frangois and its dependencies. — Befides 
this, Government pays a premium of 40 livres per ton for 
all the fhips that go to the coaft, and they are alfo more 
favoured in the meafurement than any other. Thefe boun- 
ties, granted for promoting the fale of human flefh, is the 
occafion of their committing the moft abominable abufes^ 
which cry for vengeance, and are even injurious in thcf 
extreme to the Government which encourages them. 



CHAP. 



( so > 

CHAP. II. 

Of the Di/eafes. 

The difeafes to which the Europeans are 
fubjed: from the climate of the coaft, may be 
reckoned among the greateft inconveniences 
to eftabliihments of white people in that part 
of the world. Fortunately, however, they 
may in general be obviated by making choice 
of elevated fituations, and if pofEble by 
forming the firft fettlement on an ifland ; by 
keeping up the fpirits of the new colonifts, 
fo that their minds may be agreeably oc- 
cupied to gratify the aifedlions of the foul ; 
by accuftoming them, as I have already ob- 
ferved, to a moderate degree of exercife; 
guarding carefully againft wet and damps in 
the rainy feafons ; by obferving a good diet, 
or regularity of living, and keeping the 
bowels open. Such precautions are the 
fureft antidotes againft moft of the bad 
effedls ufually refulting from a fudden change 
of climate. It is a fad confirmed by obfer- 
vation, that, excepting accidental or violent 

deaths 



( St ) 

deaths or infedlions, diforders to which every 
country as well as Africa are fubjed, the 
evils I have been fpeaking of, prevail chiefly 
among that clafs of people, who fuffer their 
brutal paflions to get the upper hand of 
their reafon, and whofe will and affidlions 
always govern their intellectual faculties. 
Nothing is more common and fatal among 
this clafs, than excefs in drinking. Never- 
thelefs there are remedies on the fpot well 
known among the negroes, which effedlually 
cure the difeafes that cannot be efcaped. 



C H A P; III. 

0/ Mujketoes. 

The mufketoes arc generally very trouble- 
fome ; but as they are only generated in 
llagnant and putrid water, it is eafy to per- 
ceive that this evil is not without a remedy; 
becaufe by draining the marflies, and by cul- 
tivating the land, the caufe which produces 
them will in a great meafure be removed. 
It is likewife certain, that it is not difficult 
to accuftom one's-felf to them, and it is afto- 
nifliing to fee with what unconcern the ne- 
D 2 groes 



( 52 ) 



groes walk quite naked, furrounded by 
fwarms of thofe infefts, without regarding 
their attacks. Smoke, in general, is a good 
prefervative againft them. * 



C H A ?• IV. 

Of thorns and Tbtjiles. 

The inconveniences of thorns and thirties 
that grow wild in very great abundance 
among the trees, buflies, and grafs, are 
likewife an hindrance to the commence- 
ment of cultivation 3 but if the negroes 
were employed to pull them up, this ob- 
ftacle would be of little confequence; for 
they are fo ufed and accuftomed to them, 
that they make no fcruple of penetrating 
acrofs the thickets which moft abound with 
them. Befides, the cultivation of the coun- 
try will foon exterminate thcfe impediments, 
as well as many others. 

* Mr. Sefstrom, in Sweden, has lately difcovered, that 
a very fmall quantity of camphire, ftrewed on a fire-coal, 
immediately deftroys every infed within the reach of its 
effluvia, and no doubt would prove fatal to the mufketoes. 
See the Ads of the Royal Society of Sciences at Stock- 
holm, for the year 1787. 

SECT. VL 



( S3 ) 



S E C T» VL 

REFLECTIONS. 

From all that has been faid, as well as 
from many other particulars, unneceffary to 
be repeated here, as they are already laid be- 
fore the publick, it is evident, that the flave- 
trade is a Commerce, carried to the higheil 
pitch of human depravity, and it is to be 
feared that its total fuppreffion by all the 
Europeans nations is a thing more to be 
wiflied for than expedted at once, unlefs fome 
of the civilized nations were to unite in 
eftablifhing colonies on the coaft of Guinea. 
May therefore every nation, ferioufly engaged 
in the caufe of liberty, conlider this efficacious 
remedy with the ftricfteft attention, and reap 
the great advantage to be derived from the 
fruitful foil of this vaft part of the globe^ 
by the eifeflual means already pointed out,, 
D 3 namely^ 



( 54 ) 

namely, that of Cultivation *. But, as the 
fettling of new colonies, and the gradual 
abolition of this trade, require the moft 
fcrupulous attention, I venture to flatter 
myfelf, that from fome experience and ap- 
plication to this matter, I {hall be able to 
excite every feeling and difinterefted mind, to 
view this grand objedt in a proper point of 
light : I confider it therefore as a duty to 
lay before them the following refleftions. 

Though it be ufual to compare nations and 

their 

f Eftablifhments of new colonies in Africa have been 
©ppofed by feme with an apparent ftrength of argument ; 
the principal points of which may be collected under the 
following heads : ift. That it would be introducing among 
the fimple and innocent people the corrupted manners of 
the Europeans.— ^2d. That fuch eftablifhments would be the 
means of increafmg and perpetuating the pra6lice of making 
Haves.— 3d. That Government will be expofed to confider- 
able facriuces to fecure protection to the colonies, and to 
fupply them with neceflaries from Europe, &c. — In a work 
I am preparing to lay before the publick, it is my intention 
to fubmit, for candid perufal, the refledlions I have made on 
thefe objections, and endeavour to prove the great error by 
which thefe real friends to humanity are at prefent influenced, 



i 55 ) 

their colonies to parents and their children, 
yet in reality the comparifon is not juft, as 
things are circumftanced at prefent. 

In every individual family, what is fo 
highly regarded, or efteemed fo highly in- 
terefting, fo ufeful, diredling the attention 
to found policy, as the human produdtion or 
propagation of mankind ? Where is that 
parent, who not only ftrives to give his 
children as good an education as he himfelf 
has received, but impelled by affedion even 
endeavours to elevate them into a fuperior 
ftate ? Afting thus, has he any other end 
than that of introducing them as aftive, 
zealous, and laborious citizens, from a prin- 
ciple of ufefulnefs, as reafonable, beneficent, 
and religious fathers of future families, into 
that fociety, of which he himfelf forms a 
part ? 

From what has been faid it follows, that 
children, when they arrive at the age of 
maturity, although they have been ufeful to 
their parents during their minority; yet it is 
not to be inferred, that from a principle of 
D 4 obligation 



( 56 ) 

obligation or falfe gratitude, they ought in- 
feparably to abide by their parents throughout 
life. No ! in a more advanced age, nature 
and reafon combine to emancipate and juftify 
them, even though oppofed by their parents ^ 
when in their turn they independently efta- 
blifh themfelves, and lay a foundation for 
new families, w^hich augmenting the prof- 
perity, and ftrength of the community, ne- 
ceffarily promotes thofe of their parents^ 
How could any fociety whatever otherwife 
continue to exift ? In a word, a child is 
fruit hanging on the tree; — ^man, arrived to 
full growth, is feparated therefrom, which, 
under the diredion of Providence, repro- 
duces in its turn, a new tree that may do 
honour to the foreft. 

The gratitude and filial attachment which 
a child conftantly preferves for thofe who 
gave him being, is always proportioned to the 
education he has received from them, and to 
the tie which has been mutually formed oi^ 
both fides^ during the ftate of non-age, 

^ocie^ies 



is?) 

Societies at large ought to aft precifely on 
the fame principle in forming colonies, fmce 
thefe are nothing elfe but their own children, 
pr the fuperfluity of their population. 

When therefore a large Society thus gives 
birth to a fmall one, in the eftablifhing there- 
of, can it poffefs a more noble view than that 
of regarding in the firft place the intereft of 
mankind, or univerfal Society ^ and afterwards 
the advantage of its own cplony or Society in 
particular? Standing thus between them 
both, will not the happinefs of both center 
in itfelf ? Does not the father of a family 
rejoice in the happinefs both of his country 
and his children ? But is there any colony 
exifting founded on thefe truly humane 
principles ? Does not the education which 
the prefent colonies have received, and do 
ftill receive from their interefted and impru- 
dent parents, prove the rankeft hatred be- 
tween beings that ought to be united by the 
tendered: ties ? Whence proceeds the caufe, 
that fmaller focieties have been compelled by 
mifunderllanding to feparate from the greater 
^hich gave theni exiflence, but perverted 

education. 



( 58 ) 

education, combined with the falfe principle 
of endeavouring to keep the child, arrived 
to its maturity perpetually in leading firings, 
like an infant ? 

Since my fliort ftay in London, I have 
weighed with the ftridled impartiality the 
argument for and againft flavery; I hope, 
therefore, I may be permitted to communi- 
cate my ideas on this delicate and interefting 
fubjeft, making man alv^ays the principal 
objcft of comparifon, as being the moft 
exaft form, and the moft perfedl model 
exifting in the creation. 

No one v^Ill deny that the two diftinft 
and principal faculties, which efTentially 
conftitute man, are t\\t Will and the Vnder^ 
flanding: the former is derived from fome 
kind of love, and being from the birth pof- 
fefied by man in common with all other 
animals, he would become even more favage 
and deftruftive, if he had not the opportu- 
ility in fociety of cultivating his other 
faculty, the Under/landings which by inftruc- 
tion is capable of infinite elevation. But 

when 



( 59 ) 

when this latter faculty comes to maturity, 
it then acquires a right of diredling the Will 
in the way moft conformable to wifdom, and 
bears the fame relation to it as a hehn to a 
fhip, which is conflantly direfted thereby in 
the courfe moft favourable to the voyage. 

This elevation of the Uftderjiandmg above 
the Will or PaJJions, is the fame as what we 
call Education or Civilization, Education 
with refped: to every man in particular, and 
civilization to mankind in general. 

The greateft human focieties may in ge- 
neral be divided into two clafles ; the r/i;/- 
lized and the uncivilized -, and the obligations 
the former are under to the latter, are pre- 
cifely the fame as thofe of parents towards 
their children. From this analogy between 
children and uncivilized nations, it may then 
eafily be concluded, that the one as well as 
the other are governed by their paffions, in 
confequence of their underftanding not being 
cultivated. 



If 



( 6o ) 

If we feel within us an interior but diftind 
voice, dilating that we ought to feek our own 
happinefs in promoting that of our pofteri- 
ty ', in afcending from particular to general, 
we (hall alfo feel that the inftrufted and 
civilized nations for their own advantage 
muft of neceffity adt unanimoufly for the 
happinefs of the barbarous and uncivilized^ 

If the tutelage of children be regarded as a 
period of flavery, I allow that the civilized 
nations have fome right to exercife a certain 
dominion over the uncivilized, provided that 
this happy dominion be confidcred as a pa- 
ternal yoke, and that the duration do not 
exceed the period of the child's maturity. 

Let us then form new fettlements along the 
African coaftj fettlements which fhall have 
no other aim than that of inviting thofe 
nations to the riches which will arife 
from the cultivation of their own country, 
and thence the enjoyment of civilization, 
to both which they are capable of apply- 
ing themfelves with ardour and joy. — Let 
us thus on the wreck of tyranny raife 

altars 



( 6i ) 

altars to humanity. Let us give to this 

weak, timid, and ignorant people, a mafcu- 

line and courageous education. Let us make 

them feel the nobility of their origin, that 

under our tuition they may become generous 

from found political intereft ; and may they 

no longer be flaves, but men. Let us for 

our own part freely affift them in tilling the 

fine country they inhabit. Let us prove to 

thofe innumerable multitudes of men, by 

the force of example, that they poffefs the 

moft fertile foil. Let us alfo, by example, 

teach them no longer to fuffer themfelves to 

be torn from their native fhores. Let us 

teach them to fhake off the irons, and to 

revenge themfelves on the blind tyrants, who 

fhackle them, by becoming more ufeful to 

them in a ftate of freedom. 



The 



( 62 ) 

Note to Sec. III. and Chap. I. 

The following Circumftance is related by 
Mr. de la Blanc herie^ from an Extra5l of 
the Journal of his Voyages, publifhed at 
Paris, in 2 vols. 1775.* 

AN inhabitant of St. Domingo had a ne- 
gro, who for a long time had folicited for 
his liberty, and which he had fully merited 
by his fervicesj but that whic'h ought to 
have procured it for him, was precifely what 

* This journal gives the hillory of a young man whom 
the author knew to have died, in confequence of a very dif- 
folute life, induced from a faulty education, and from which 
the moft important deductions may be made, refpeding 
publick education, and the duty of parents. The fame 
Mr. de la Blancherie has, fmce the publication of this work, 
digefted and carried into execution in Paris, the plan of a 
Bureau de correfpondance generale et gratuite pour les Sciences 
et les Arts^ where men of all nations, and every clafs, fhould 
find, as in a living Encyclopedia^ (to ufe the happy expreflion 
of His Royal Highnefs the Duke of Gloucefter) the means 
of communication and inftrudion, and every good office re- 
lative to the Sciences and the Arts. For twelve years paft he 
has contended with all poffible obftacles, in order to perfuade 
mankind to purfue their true interefts, by a reciprocation of 
good offices. Mr. de la Blancherie is at prefent, and will re- 
main fome time in England, to acquire connexions ufeful to 

this grand view. 

prevented 



( (>z ) 

prevented his mafter from granting it, namely, 
his being effentlally ufeful to him. The more 
the negro prefled to obtain his freedom,which 
had been promifed him, the more pretences 
were found for eluding and deferring the exe- 
cution of the promife; the mafter himfelf no 
longer hid from his flave his great attach- 
ment to him. Yet flattering as this kind of 
refufal was, far from diminifhing his defire 
of liberty, it ferved to encreafe it. He re- 
folved then to employ another means, which 
was to buy his freedom 3 appreciating him- 
felf according to the reafons his mafter had 
given him, for not fulfilling his promife. 
In fome parts of St. Domingo, the inhabi- 
tants do not enter into the detail of the food 
and clothing of their negroes. They give 
them two hours in a day for cultivating a 
certain portion of land, granted to them for 
their fubfiftence ^ thofe who are induftrious, 
not only obtain what is necelTary, but even 
that which enables them to carry on a com- 
merce, more or lefs confiderable, according 
to their ability. Our black, at the end 
of fome years, gained more money than was 
requifite to redeem himfelf, and prefenting 

the 



( 64 ) 

the gold to his mafter, told him that he was 
refolved to gain his liberty, and offered to 
pay the price of another negro. The planiet 
furprized, fays to him, " Go, I have fuffi- 
*' ciently trafficked in my fellow-creatures, 
^* enjoy what is your own : you have re- 
*' flored me to myfelf." He immediately 
fold his plantation, and only remained long 
enough at St. Domingo to colled his proper- 
ty. He returned to France, and in the 
way to his province, was obliged to pafs 
through Paris. Remaining in that fedudive 
town, he fpared nothing that could give an 
idea of that opulence which is attached to 
the name of an American. Women, high 
living, gaming, parties of pleafure of all 
kinds, he gave himfelf up to, without re- 
ftraint, embracing every opportunity of ex- 
pence. His fortune was foon diflipated* 
In that wretched fituation, it was neceffary 
to determine on fomething, but on what was 
the queflion. To remain in France a ruined 
man was impoffible 5 to return to the iHands, 
what an embarraffing humiliation. Never- 
thelefs, on refledion, he flattered himfelf 
he ihould find more refources there than 

elfewhere, 



( 65 ) 

elfewhere, depending rather on the at- 
tachment of thofe whofe fortunes he had 
made in St. Domingo, than on the friend- 
ship of thofe who had been the promoters of 
his ruin in France, he determined to embark. 
His arrival at the Cape furprizcd every body 
acquainted u^ith his misfortune. They pitied 
him, but no one gave him the leaft affiftance* 
His ancient friends only permitted him to be 
a witnefs of the pleafures he had procured 
them, without making him a partaker in 
their enjoyments. Many who had perfonal 
obligations to him, were never at home when 
he vifited them; a dreadful example this^ 
joined to many others which prefent them- 
felves daily, and are yet infufficient to pre- 
vent men from deliring to form fuch con* 
nexionSa Thus reduced to live in the 
wretched inns on the port, which are only 
fuited to the pooreft, he had not yet beea 
to fee his negro; whether he had beea 
prevented from not knowing where he was^ 
cr from being afliamed of prefenting him- 
felf in the condition to which he was redu- 
ced, I know not ; but the black, who had a 
houfe, having learnt his misfortune, and dif- 

E covered 



( 66 ) 

covered his retreat, foon threw himfclf at the 
feet of his dear mafter and benefa'flor (for 
thefe were the terms he made ufe of) accom- 
panied with tears at confidering his fitua- 
tion. His zeal was not confined to words, 
he made him mafter in his houfe ; but on 
reflexion, putting himfelf in his place, he 
faw his felf-love mortified by the contempt 
infeparable from indigence, and the pain 
which is induced by the confcioufnefs of 
being in a ftate of dependance ; he felt all 
the weight his benefits mufthave on a gene- 
rous and liberal mind. *' My dear mafter," 
faid he, embracing his knees, '^ I owe to you 
*^ all I am; difpofe of every thing I have, 
** quit this country, where your paft mif- 
*' fortunes will give birth to new onesj 
** abandon thofe ungrateful people whom 
** you did not oblige with a view to their 
** future fervices." How fhall I be able to 
live in France? " Ah, my dear mafter, fliall 
** your Have be happy enough to induce you 
" to accept of a tribute of his gratitude ? 
** will you do him that kindnefs ?" The 
mafter quite afFedted, knew not how to 
anfwer. The negro continued, '* fifteen 

** hundred 



( 67 ) 

** hundred Ilvres, will that be fufficient ?" 
Ah, it will certainly be too much anfwered 
the matter, diflblved in tears. Immediately 
the black quitted him, and returning, put into 
his poffefRon a deed, which infured him for 
life fifteen hundred livres. The planter is 
now in France, and actually receives every 
year his penfion, fix months in advance. 
The negro's name is Lewis Defrouleaux, 
and I faw him at the Cape, where he conti- 
nued to keep houfe, 

FINIS. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

The Author has lately publifhed two VIEWS of the 
COAST of GUINEA^ with feparate Defcriptions, em- 
bellifhed with four fmall Prints. --^In tliefe Views are intro- 
duced fome hiftorical fa6ts related in this pamphlet, pages 9, 
II, & 12. The fize 22 inches by 17, and the price 15 s.—* 
His view, in undertaking to publifh them, was more efTen- 
tially to ferve the caufe of humanity, and he has therefore 
offered them at the fame price which they coft him, not 
wifhing to have any emolument from this fale. — They are 
to be had of the Author, No. 6, in the Poultry ; at Mr. J. 
Phillips's, George- Yard, Lombard-Street 5 Mr. B.Evans, 
Printfeller, in the Poultry; Mr. S. Walter, Homer's Head, 
Charing- Crofs ; Mr. W. Dickinfon, Printfeller, No. 158, 
New-Bond- Street 3 MelT. Robfon and Clarke, New-Bond- 
Street; and Mr. B. Chaftanier, No. 62, Tottenham- 
Court- Road. 



CONTENTS. 



SECT. IV. 


' 


Defcription of the Coaji. 




Chap. I. Climate 


Page 36 


Chap, 11. Of the Soil - 


39 


Chap, III. The Productions 


40 


Animal 


40 


Vegetable - 


42 


Mineral 


45 



SECT. V. 

Of the Impediments which willoppofe the European 
Settlements on the Coaft of Guinea. 

Chap. I. False Opinions - - 46 

Chap, 11. Of the Diseases - - 50 

Chap. III. Of MusKEToEs -. • ^i 

Chap. IV. Of Thorns and Thistles 52 

SECT. VI. 

Reflections • 53 



ERRATUM, 



Page 13, Line i6> for lum, read Salum, 



fl^^^^^^^S^^^^!^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^!^!^^^^ 



