PROPERTY OFTHE ^\ £/\ Of, h 







ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 39.] For AUGUST, 1828. [No. 15. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request cf any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. IS. Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



REVIEW OF THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT. 

Our Readers will naturally be desirous of knowing the circumstances 
which rendered the last session of Parliament a season of almost com- 
plete inaction as to the question of Colonial Reform. Much was cer- 
tainly proposed and expected in the way of discussion, if not of success- 
ful effort ; and the number and weight of the petitions, addressed to 
Parliament, afforded a hope that the deplorable apathy, and eveu aversion, 
with which, on former occasions, the subject has been received there, 
might yield to the wishes so clearly and strongly expressed cf a large 
proportion of the constituent body. It must be acknowledged, how- 
ever, that if Members of the House of Commons are lukewarm and in- 
different, it is. in some degree, the fault of those who send them thither ; 
for, if the same pains which are often employed about a rail-road or a 
turnpike, were taken to convince them that their constituents really felt 
the deep interest in the question which their petitions express, many ho- 
nourable gentlemen would not turn, with the marked disgust which they 
have too often shewn, from every effort to obtain their attention to the 
claims of our colonial bondsmen. But not to dwell on this ungracious 
topic, we will proceed to explain the circumstances which have prevent- 
ed those discussions respecting them which the public were led to 
expect. This cannot be done more effectually, than by giving the sub- 
stance of what was said on the subject, by Sir James Mackintosh, on 
the -25th of July. In rising to present a petition against Negro Slavery, 
he felt it necessary, he said, to remark, that those among them, who took 
a more active part in this question than other Members, conceived, that, 
as full notice of their intentions was in fairness due to all parties inte- 
rested in it, so they owed it to their own honour, to shew that their late 
inaction had not proceeded from supineness or lukewarmness ; and that, 
as their principles were unchangeable, so was their purpose unchanged. 
Nor was it less due to the very numerous and eminently respectable body, 
who had loaded the table with petitions, to explain why no attempt had 
been made to carry their moderate, just, and reasonable prayers into 
effect. The House would recollect the changes which had taken place 



278 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Sir J. Mackintosh. 

in the Colonial Department, and the necessity, which had thence arisen , 
of some postponement, in order to give the new Government an oppor- 
tunity of coming to a mature decision on the subject. Not long after Par- 
liament met, his Honourable and Learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had 
given notice, that if nothing were proposed by Government in relation to 
this question, he himself would bring the subject forward at a very early 
period after the Easter recess. No sooner, however, had he returned 
from the discharge of his laborious duties at the Spring Assizes, than he 
found another new Government in existence, and it became necessary tct 
give it also time to consider the question, and determine on the measures 
to be adopted. This concession was the more readily made, from a belief 
that, as far as depended on the Right Honourable and gallant Member, 
(Sir George Murray), personally, there would be no want of liberality in 
the consideration of this subject; and certainly, nothing has hitherto oc- 
curred, either in his language or conduct, to impair our confidence. Soon 
after this, however, his Honourable and Learned friend (Mr. Brougham) 
was obliged to relinquish his regular attendance in the House, on 
account of the declining state of his health. His bodily frame had hither- 
to well ministered to the unwearied vigour of his faculties ; but, it was 
no wonder that it should sometimes give way under a heavier burden 
than any other mind had, perhaps, ever laid on her frail companion. 
But though his bodily health declined, he still clung to this question, as 
one which he had long had at heart, and which he was most unwilling 
to abandon. Nor did he relinquish it until an absolute prohibition had 
been placed upon any attempt on his part to sustain that degree of men- 
tal exertion which the due discussion of such a subject would have re- 
quired, in order to do it justice. He therefore consented, though most 
reluctantly, to postpone it to another Session. From some cause, how- 
ever, probably accidental, the motives for these successive postponements 
had not come before the public in such a manner as was calculated to 
afford a clear conception of the real circumstances which had compelled 
his Honourable and Learned friend to relinquish his intention.* The 
statement now made, therefore, was no less essential to the honour of his 
learned friend, than to the future prospects of the cause, in which he had 
been so long engaged, and of which he had been so powerful an ad- 
vocate. 

Having given this explanation of the grounds on which Mr. Brougham 
had withdrawn his Motion, Sir Jame3 added, that he would now content 
himself with saying that, " unless His Majesty's Government should be 
prepared, before the next Session, to take a more decided part, in exe- 
cuting and carrying into effect the resolutions in Parliament than it had 

_ * Mr. Buxton had been at pains, ten days before, to give a similar explana- 
tion to the House, stating, that Mr. Brougham had withdrawn his motion in 
accordance with his own wish and that of other friends of the cause in Parlia- 
ment, who were convinced that, in the feeble state of his health, he could not, 
without extreme imprudence, attempt to bring it forward ; but the newspapers 
had failed to give a clear report of what had passed. We sincerely hope that 
before the next session opens, the health, not only of Mr. Brougham, but of Mr, 
Buxton also will be so re-established as to enable them to resume their important 
labours, in this field of service, with energy and effect. 



Revieiv of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpe. 279 

hitherto done; or, unless the Legislatures of our West India Colonies, 
(seeing the state of public opinion and feeling in this country, and the 
nearer and more immediate dangers arising out of the present system in 
their own neighbourhood,) should abandon their obstinacy; — and of the 
two, this, the more desirable, was, he feared, the least likely event; — un- 
less, in short, the Colonies should shew symptoms of having attained a 
victory over their own prejudices, and of looking more to their ultimate 
safety and advantage, than to the present demands of pride and passion; 
or Government itself should effectively undertake the subject; then he 
distinctly gave notice, that those who have taken an active part in enforc- 
ing what may be called the treaty between the humanity of the British 
public and the prejudices of the Colonists, negociated by Mr. Canning 
in 1823, (a treaty in the observance of which the rights of humanity 
and the glory of this country are deeply interested) will think it necessary 
to propose some measure on the subject in that House in the course of 
the ensuing Session : and he sincerely hoped, that if it should be neces- 
sary to bring forward such measure, his Honourable and learned friend 
(Mr. Brougham) would be able to bring it forward, qualified as he was, 
in every respect, to perform that sacred duty, and especially marked out 
for it as he was, by being the first man who had affixed the penalties and 
the infamy of felony on those atrocious crimes of man-stealing and trad- 
ing in stolen men, which the most ancient and venerable of lawgivers, 
thirty centuries ago, punished with death." 

Having explained this point, we proceed to notice some other parlia- 
mentary occurrences of the last Session, bearing on the question of 
Slavery. 

Our last number was occupied in pointing out the general inefficiency 
and delusiveness of the pretended reforms of the legislatures of Jamaica 
and St. Christopher's, notwithstanding the approbation of them which 
had been expressed by Mr. Huskisson in the House of Commons, and 
by the Duke of Wellington in the House of Lords ; and we showed 
clearly that in every instance those legislatures had either absolutely re- 
fused, or dexterously evaded the requisitions of the Government. 

The same motive which induced us to exhibit a correct analysis of 
the enactments in question, that of preventing the Parliament and the 
public from forming an erroneous estimate of the real state of the case, 
appears to have led Lord Calthorpe to bring the matter before the 
House of Lords. On the 18th of July, on presenting a petition from 
the inhabitants of Bristol against slavery, he took occasion to make 
some remarks, of which the following is the substance, on what had 
fallen from the Duke of Wellington on a former day — 

" I feel strongly the inconvenience of raising a debate on an impor- 
tant subject like this in presenting a petition ; but I see no other oppor- 
tunity but the one I now take of endeavouring, as succinctly as I am able, 
to bring before your lordships the present state of slavery in the West 
Indies, and the very imperfect manner in which, as it appears to me, the 
Colonial legislatures have carried into effect the intentions of Government. 
In the present state of the House, and at the present period of the session, 
this must be to me as well as to your lordships any thing but an act of 
self indulgence. If, indeed, the motion had been brought forward, notice 



280 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpe. 

of which was given in the other House of Parliament by an honourable 
and learned gentleman, who has so ably and so powerfully exercised his 
talents in behalf of the negro race, and who, from the state of his health, 
and certainly from no relaxation of zeal in this cause, was obliged to 
forego the execution of his purpose. 1 should have felt myself absolved 
from the duty of now drawing your lordships' attention to the subject. 

" In alluding, as I shall feel it my duty to do, to what fell from the 
noble Duke on a former occasion, I assure him I should greatly blame 
myself if I should appear for a moment to lose sight of those deep obli- 
gations which we owe him. But I desire now more particularly to bear 
in recollection those valuable services which the noble Duke rendered 
in the abolition of the foreign slave trade; and to. keep stedfastly in 
view that heart and zeal and spirit which he carried-into his negocia- 
tions on that subject, and the warm and generous solicitude which he 
showed to procure from foreign powers, as far as treaties could secure 
it, the abolition of that nefarious' traffic. 

- " It will be in the recollection of your lordships, that, in 1823, a very 
considerable feeling was excited throughout the empire against Colonial 
slavery, which communicated itself to Parliament, or at least was 
strongly recognised by Parliament; and the general impression seemed 
to be, that slavery was a grievous and opprobrious evil, opprobrious 
"under any circumstances, but doubly so in the case of a country which, 
like our own, glories in its freedom. This feeling, I say, was strong and 
general, but it was mixed up, in the minds of many, with fears that the 
degradation of the slave had unfitted him for instant freedom, and with 
considerations of existing institutions and rights of property involved in 
the question ; and the prevailing opinion seemed to be, that though it 
might be hazardous to attempt to abolish slavery at once, yet measures 
should be immediately taken which should operate gradually in bring- 
ing about its early and final extinction. With this view certain reso- 
lutions were passed, and certain measures of reform founded on those 
resolutions were afterwards adopted, with the unanimous consent of 
both Houses of Parliament. Those measures were chiefly directed to 
raise the moral and social character of the slave, to give him the protec- 
tion of law, to diminish those almost immeasurable distinctions which 
separate the negro slave from his white proprietor, and sink him to a 
level scarcely human — and, in short, gradually to fit him for that state 
of entire freedom for which it was assumed that he was not then ripe. 
Now I cannot at all agree with the noble Duke, when, on a former 
evening, he described the West India legislatures as having adopted 
those measures, if not in all their details and to the full extent which 
was recommended, yet as having adopted them in principle. Now, to 
me it appears that, in any sense in which the word principle is commonly 
used, the manner in which the Colonial Assemblies have framed their 
laws is really an evasion, rather than an adoption, of the principle of 
the measures suggested to them. The noble Duke would not say that 
a soldier, who should comply with one or two trifling orders which cost 
him no trouble or self denial, while he resisted all the important orders 
issued to him, and even used, like Jamaica, the language of defiance, 
had adopted the principle of subordination. If such a compliance were 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpe. 281 

an admission of the principle, it is at least an admission of no value 
whatever. And as it is only in such a way that these legislatures have 
adopted the principle recommended to them, it is only another term for 
resistance to all that constitutes its spirit and essence, or that gives to 
it any real or practical value. 

" I really wish the noble Duke would look into what has been done 
by these legislatures, and compare it with the measures prescribed by 
the Government : he will then see that those very measures which are 
assumed to have a tendency to elevate the slave in the scale of being, 
to improve his moral and legal condition, and to prepare him for the 
enjoyment of freedom, are precisely the measures in which they have 
shewn the greatest unwillingness fairly and effectually to concur.* 

" I am unwilling to refer to particular instances of cruelty as demon- 
strative of the physical condition of the slaves; but, until it can be 
proved that that law which pervades all nature, ordaining the increase 
of the species, is not arrested in the West Indies, I must consider the 
physical condition of our colonial slaves to be greatly inferior to that 
of any class of men in a. state of freedom. But the improvement of their 
mere physical condition was not, after all, the main object of Parlia- 
ment, except as a mean to their improvement in those great, high, and 
everlasting distinctions which the Author of being has established be- 
tween man and the brute creation. It was with the view of establishing 
more broadly and increasingly these distinctions, that measures of ame- 
lioration were proposed which, while they produced immediate benefit to 
the Slaves, must, in their results, have proved no less beneficial to the 
masters themselves. Now, when we find that there has been an utter 
rejection of all these important measures, I cannot understand with what 
propriety the Colonial Assemblies can be said to have adopted their 
principle. It might have been expected that, even from motives of 
prudence, they would have acted differently. But in truth, as the 
Noble Duke must acknowledge, they have scarcely done any thing to 
carry the resolutions of Parliament, and the recommendations of Govern- 
ment into effect. The Legislature of Jamaica has passed only one Act 
on the subject, and that has been disallowed by the "Government, speci- 
fically, indeed, because its provisions infringed the rights of religious wor- 

* Nothing can be more just than this remark of his Lordship. A West Indian 
legislature will much more readily pass laws for punishing the mutilation or 
dismemberment of a slave, or for assigning to him a certain allowance of food — 
(for the privilege of having his limbs entire and of being fed, he enjoys in com- 
mon with the horse or mule) — than they will pass laws which shall exempt him 
from the debasing operation of the driving whip ; which shall give sanction 
and protection to his connubial rights ; which shall confer upon him the privi- 
lege of suing and being sued, and of appearing as a witness in courts of justice ; 
which shall secure to him the means of accumulating property and of emanci- 
pating himself or his family by his own industry and forethought ; which shall 
prevent the disruption of his domestic ties ; or which, making the Sabbath a day 
sacred to repose and instruction, and allowing other time for the secular pur- 
poses to which his Sabbath has hitherto been appropriated, shall introduce him 
into fellowship with his God and Saviour — all these being changes in his con- 
dition which tend to raise him to their own level or even above their level, and 
which therefore woxind their pride and prejudice, no less than, in'unfounded ap- 
prehension, they seem to affect their interests. 



282 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpc. 

ship. But this is, of itself, a proof of the little disposition existing in that 
Colony to follow up the spirit of the parliamentary resolutions. There 
were many other objections to the Act, and among the rest, its having 
evaded that most important recommendation, the appointment of a Pro- 
tector of Slaves, an appointment without which there can be no security 
that any of the other measures for ameliorating the condition of the 
Slaves, even if adopted, would be properly enforced. Such conduct 
can surely prefer no claim to any expression of satisfaction on the part 
of His Majesty's Government. A similar defect occurs in the Act of the 
Legislature of St. Christopher's. There they have not only evaded, they 
have wholly rejected the recommendation. 

" But what I would especially impress on your Lordships, is, the for- 
midable obstacle which slavery itself presents to the execution of any 
proposals for ameliorating the condition of the Slaves. Is it to be sup- 
posed that in a country, the very atmosphere of which is tainted and 
saturated as it were with slavery, there should not be an unwillingness 
to give effect to the recommendations of a Parliament composed of men 
who value freedom ? Without meaning to deny that acts of kindness 
and humanity may be exercised towards the Slaves by many individuals 
in the Colonies, or that many Colonial Proprietors resident in England, 
are desirous to promote the improvement and comfort of their Slaves ; 
still, I must complain of the language used by both, as to what has been 
done in the Colonies, language wholly unwarranted by facts, and which 
of itself proves the baneful influence of slavery on those who live under 
it, or who think themselves interested in upholding it. 

" I have no doubt of the steady purpose of the Noble Duke, and the 
good intentions of His Majesty's Government generally, to carry the re- 
solutions of Parliament into effect; but I regret that they do not seem to 
take a due estimate of the obstacles which oppose themselves in the Co- 
lonies to the accomplishment of that object. Among those obstacles, I 
reckon that line of insubordination, T may say, of defiance, adopted in 
some of the Colonies, in opposition to the wishes of Parliament. I am, 
certainly, far from desiring to do any thing injurious to the West Indian 
Colonists ; but I must condemn and deplore the tone in which they have 
spoken and still speak ; and I conceive your Lordships are bound, by a 
sense of what is due to the dignity of Parliament, to see that its resolu- 
tions are carried into effect ; and that the Government, of whomsoever 
it may consist, owe it to Parliament and the country, to take such steps 
as shall put an end to the insubordination and defiance with which these 
resolutions have been met abroad. 

" My Lords, I am well aware of the charges made against those who 
view the subject as I do. One is, that their object is instant abolition, 
without reference to the consequences it may involve. This is not a 
fair charge on the great body of the abolitionists. If what I say should 
bring on me such an imputation, let me be looked on as a visionary who 
would pursue his object reckless of consequences : such an opinion 
would not give me much disquietude. But, let not the views of an in- 
dividual, even if I entertained them, be attributed to the whole of those 
who concur in the general object. I claim no exemption for myself from 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthope. 283 

such a charge ; but I do claim for that large body who have approached 
Parliament with their petitions upon this subject, I do claim for that 
most numerous, highly respectable and intelligent portion of the com- 
munity, that they shall not be stigmatized as rash and inconsiderate zea- 
lots, regardless of others' interests, and only intent on realizing their own 
theories. It is due to the character of those individuals to defend them 
from such unjust imputations. Some of the petitions have been signed 
by men distinguished alike by their public acts and private virtues. 
Clergymen, the most eminent of the Established Church, have affixed 
their signatures. We have had a petition to the same effect from the 
University of Cambridge. In short, many of the petitions on your table 
have been signed by men, whose qualities of mind and heart entitle their 
prayers to your Lordships' most serious consideration ; men who have 
acted from no selfish motives, and who are no less distinguished by their 
moderation, than by their other estimable qualities. For such men, my 
Lords, who, through life, have been conspicuous for the most scrupulous 
regard for the rights and interests of others, I do claim that they shall 
not be charged with a design to injure and destroy them, when they 
come forward to complain, that, the imperfect manner in which the re- 
solutions of Parliament have been carried into effect has compromised 
the honour of the Crown and the dignity of Parliament, has put to 
hazard the security of our Colonies, and has frustrated the paramount 
claims of humanity and justice. The enlightened individuals to whom I 
allude may be fairly considered as representing the opinions on this ques- 
tion of the best portion of the community. By such men have measures, 
the most beneficial to the country, been first brought to the notice of 
Parliament ; and they shew that they recognise the transcendant merits 
of the noble Duke, when, acting on the principle that the character 
of public men is a public possession, they urge him to pursue, on this 
question, the same decisive and energetic course he did in achieving 
those resplendent triumphs which adorn his name, and connect it with 
the brightest glories of his country. If the Duke acts on this sugges- 
tion they have no doubt, and I concur with them in thinking, that it 
will be attended with similar happy results. But, while they pay this 
just tribute to the noble Duke, they think that if the language of appro- 
bation be held out, where that of censure is rather called for, the result 
must be inglorious to the Government who advised it, however that Go- 
vernment may be constituted. Nor ought they who object to the want 
of a decisive tone, on the part of the Government, to be accused of re- 
commending harsh measures towards the colonies that resist the repeated 
recommendations of the legislature and the executive. I would be the 
last to recommend such. But it is obvious, and ought not to be over- 
looked, that should they still persist in their contumacy, it would be 
easy for Government at once to bring them to a sense of their duty 
and of their true interests, by only proposing to withdraw its troops from 
the West Indies, a proceeding which would leave them exposed to the 
outrage of a multitude exasperated by continued oppression and neglect, 
and by the disappointment of every hope they have been taught to 
cherish." 

The Duke of Wellington then spoke'to the following effect: — 



284 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Duke of Wellington. 

<l I can assure the noble Lord, that if he imagines that any thing 
which fell from me on a former occasion was meant to cast any reflection 
on those who are anxious to improve the condition of our Colonial 
slaves, with a view to the final abolition of slavery, he is much mistaken. 
I said nothing of the kind. If any thing I said could justify that con- 
struction, I trust I shall convince the noble Lord, before 1 sit down, that 
I have not disapproved of their conduct in urging that the measures 
recommended by Government should be carried into effect. Why; Par- 
liament itself is a party to those measures which they pray may be en- 
forced. The Government proceeded upon the resolutions of the House, 
and if I disapproved of the one I must disapprove of the other. But I 
approve of both. 

" I stated, on a former occasion, that the principle of the measures 
recommended by Government had been adopted in nearly all the Colo- 
nies, and that in Jamaica the principle of a Protector of slaves was re- 
cognised. The noble Lord must be aware that there is a difference 
between the adoption of a principle, and of a particular measure involv- 
ing that principle. The legislature of Jamaica did adopt the prin- 
ciple of appointing a Protector of slaves, though not in the way recom- 
mended by Government. Their mode of establishing the principle of 
protection was by appointing the vestries of the several parishes protec- 
tors. I wish they had proceeded on a different plan, but still I am glad 
that something has been adopted which will in any manner give pro- 
tection to the slave. It will be the business of Government and of the 
local authorities to see that due protection is given ; and if the present 
means should fail of affording due protection, then such measures as 
will ensure it must, from time to time, be recommended. This was what 
I meant when I said the principle of the measures recommended by Go- 
vernment had been adopted. — Now, if that be the case, how could the 
noble Lord compare the conduct of Jamaica to that of a soldier who 
obeys some one order and refuses to obey others ? Jamaica is not 
bound to obey the orders of a Secretary of State as a soldier is bound to 
obey the orders of his officer. The noble Lord does not mean to say, 
that the Jamaica legislature is not independent. If so, and Jamaica be 
not bound to obey the orders of the Secretary of State, it is a matter of 
congratulation to find, that in such an important particular as that of a 
Protector, it has adopted the principle of the recommendations made by 
Government, and that the legislatures of the other islands have also so 
far adopted their principle as may lead finally to the accomplishment of 
the wishes of Parliament and of the country on this important question. 
" The noble Lord says I expressed satisfaction with what had been 
done. It is true I did. But if he understood by this that I am not 
disposed to go further, he has quite mistaken me. When the Govern- 
ment proposed these measures, they knew they proposed them to legis- 
latures which possessed the power to adopt, to modify, or reject them. 
And, having that power, Government cannot interfere and force these 
measures upon them. Does the noble Lord wish us to use force ? If 
so, I tell the noble Lord that we have not the power of enforcing them,- 
if we wished to do so. We have not the power of governing those Co- 
lonies by force any more than Ave have the power of governing this 



Revieiv of Last Session . — Sir Q. Murray. Mr. Buxton. 2S5 

country by force. We can only govern them, as this country is go- 
verned, by means of laws which are enacted by the sanction of the 
Houses of Legislature. I want to know whether I am to attempt force 
and to irritate them by harsh language, or rather to encourage and per- 
suade them? Certainly I would choose the latter mode, and encourage 
them to do that which will be alike beneficial to them and to this 
country, and is in accordance with the unanimous wish of the Govern- 
ment, the Parliament, and the people of this country. I cannot con- 
clude without reminding the noble Lord that he must not expect, that 
in proportion as the legislative assemblies assent to the wishes of this 
country, in the same proportion laws will emanate from them on the 
subject which will bear the scrutiny of the acute mind of the noble 
Lord and his friends, or will come up to the perfection of Brirish legis- 
lation. Time is necessary for perfection in all things, and legislation is 
not exempted from this general rule. The enactments of parties not 
possessing our advantages ought to be treated with some indulgence ; 
and to attempt to exercise force, or to give any other cause of irritation, 
would only do harm and retard the accomplishment of the object the 
noble Lord is so desirous to attain." 

Can the above speech really have been spoken by the noble Duke, to 
whom it is attributed ? We cannot doubt it, having had the mortifica- 
tion of hearing it ourselves, and being able to vouch for the general ac- 
curacy with which it has been reported. Neither could we have enter- 
tained much doubt of its purport, but for the following conversation 
which took place a few days after, viz. on the 25th of July, in the 
House of Commons. 

Sir George Murray, in answer to the speech of Sir James Mackin- 
tosh, which is inserted above, observed, that he considered the present 
Government as fully pledged to adhere to the resolutions of 1823, 
which, he conceived, reflected the highest credit on the Parliament that 
adopted them ; and were equally necessary whether we regarded hu- 
manity, justice, or self-interest. Government, he admitted, was bound 
to pursue such a system, as while it should be most beneficial to the 
slaves, should respect the rights of private property and the general 
well being of the Colonies. This system consisted in ameliorating the 
condition of the slaves ; and all measures tending to that object, were, 
in his opinion, most desirable. He would not now go into detail, but 
this he would say, that he fully and entirely concurred with the friends 
of the negroes in the feelings they entertained, and was desirous the 
slaves might ultimately participate in all the advantages enjoyed by their 
fellow men. 

Mr. Buxton heard the Right Honourable Gentleman with the more 
satisfaction as he had read, with surprise and alarm, certain expressions 
said to have been uttered by a noble Duke in another place; expres- 
sions which, if correctly stated, would lead to a belief that the solemn 
pledge made in this House, in 1823, was to be frittered away to a mere 
recommendation to the Colonies to do that which we wished them to 
do. On the speech to which he alluded, he should have felt it his duty 
to comment at some length, but for what had now fallen from the 
Right Honourable Secretary for the Colonies. 

2 x 



286 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Mr. Peel. 

Mr. Peel said, he felt quite sure that the Honourable member (Mr. 
Buxton) had given to the speech of his noble friend an interpretation 
totally different from that intended by him. When the Honourable 
member stated that his noble friend's speech went to fritter away the 
pledge given in 1823 (a pledge to which the present ministry felt them- 
selves bound to adhere), he had altogether mistaken the meaning meant 
to be conveyed by his noble friend. " Indeed," he added, " I feel it 
but just to the cause which the Honourable member advocates to make 
this statement, as my noble friend feels not only bound to redeem, but is 
desirous of redeeming that pledge. When, however, the Honourable 
member looked to the speech attributed to my noble friend, he should 
have taken into consideration the speech to which it was an answer. 
My noble friend was, perhaps, upon that occasion, repelling some inti- 
mation of a desire to interfere at once with the Colonies by physical 
force, and was recommending that course which was most desirable, 
namely, that the reform should be effected by the planters themselves, 
who, in doing so, would best consult their own interests and those of 
their slaves. And, if my noble friend did hold this language, I am sure 
the House will think with me, that he did so with a view to the advance- 
ment, and not to the injury, of the cause which the Honourable member 
appears to have so much at heart." 

As these conversations have an important bearing on the Anti-Slavery 
question, we have thought it right to record them nearly as they were 
delivered, that our readers may be able themselves to judge of their im- 
port, and also to appreciate the value of the few brief remarks we shall 
now make upon them. We should have been satisfied, indeed, with 
Mr. Peel's disclaimer, on the part of the Duke of Wellington, of the 
more obvious import of certain parts of his speech; but, as that speech 
stands recorded in the public journals of the country, and will natu- 
rally carry with it the weight attached to the Duke's eminent services 
and distinguished character, no less than to his high station as the 
head of the Government, we shall be excused for endeavouring respect- 
fully to obviate the injurious effect which, if it were to pass without any 
comment, it might be calculated to produce on the public mind. 

1. We are bound in fairness to commence with acknowledging that 
nothing can be more satisfactory than the frank and liberal terms in 
which both the noble Duke and the two Secretaries of State have borne 
testimony to the rectitude of the views and conduct of the abolitionists: 
who, it is fully admitted, ask for nothing, and urge nothing, which they 
are not fully entitled to require, under the solemn pledges which have 
been given, both by the Government and the Parliament of this country, 
and which the Government and the Parliament are bound to fulfil. Sir 
George Murray declared that he fully concurred with the friends of 
the negroes in the feelings they entertained; and the Duke of Welling- 
ton, that he could not disapprove of their proceedings without disap- 
proving also of the conduct of Parliament, and of the Government of 
which he himself has formed so essential a part. 

2. The Duke of Wellington, however, maintains that nearly all the 
Colonies have adopted in principle the measures recommended to them, 
and that in Jamaica the principle of a Protector of slaves has been re- 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Remarks, 287 

cognised. On both these tacts we are directly at issue with his Grace. 
We affirm the very reverse of his positions. We affirm, without reserve 
or hesitation, that not one of the Colonies, having legislatures of their 
own, has adopted in principle and in spirit (with the exception of a 
single point in the case of Grenada) any one of the measures recom- 
mended to them by Government ; and we again pledge all our credit 
with the public to make good this assertion (indeed we have already 
made it good) from the papers laid before Parliament by the Duke him- 
self. And we further affirm, that Jamaica, instead of adopting, has 
actually repudiated and rejected the principle of a protector of slaves. 
Under the name of protection to the slaves, it has actually contrived to 
give protection and immunity to the oppressors of the slaves. Against 
whom was protection for the slaves demanded ? Was it not against their 
masters and managers ? To whom is their protection confided by the 
Jamaica legislature? To those very masters and managers who, in fact, 
compose the entire of the parish vestries. But the vestry is called a 
Council of protection. Yes, and it was so called years before the reso- 
lutions of 1823 were thought of. But surely the term protection does 
not necessarily involve the principle of protection. On the contrary, it 
involves in this instance the extinction of that principle, for if the pur- 
pose had been to divest the slaves of all protection, no more effectual 
device could have been framed to effect it than this very enactment of 
the Jamaica legislature. Nor are we singular in this opinion. What 
did JMr. Huskisson say of it in his well known despatch of Sept. 
22, 1827? He denied that this so called Council of Protection could 
be a proper substitute for the independent and non-slave-holding 
protector they had been urged to appoint; consisting, he said, as it did, 
of the very individuals whom the protector was to control. And, even 
if there existed a chance of its being efficient (a thing utterly hope- 
less), yet its powers were jealously limited to those injuries alone which 
are punishable when inflicted on brutes, namely, mutilation and dis- 
memberment, wantonly cruel treatment, and imprisoning (impounding) 
without due support. Besides it was not required to record or report its 
proceedings, and its number (being all the adult white householders) 
destroyed all sense of responsibility. The law, therefore, was so far from 
adopting the principle of protection, that it actually denied, instead 
of granting, protection to the slave. It was a measure, to the full, as ab- 
surd and incongruous as it would be to permit a community of smug- 
glers to name, from their own body, the persons who, with no responsi- 
bility attached to them, should have the charge of superintending the 
due execution of the revenue laws, and punishing their own delinquen- 
cies in respect to them. 

3. We come now to that part of the Duke's speech which seems to 
affirm the independence of the Colonial legislatures. The language used 
on this point did, at first sight, appear almost of necessity to point to 
their independence on Parliament. It seemed impossible that the merest 
tyro in constitutional knowledge could be supposed ignorant of the tact, 
that the Colonial legislatures were not compellable to obey the mere 
mandate of a Secretary of State, unsupported by the authority of Par- 
liament. But we are bound to believe, on the strength of Mr. Peel's speech, 
that the Duke did not mean to deny the authority of Parliament to le- 



288 Revieiv of Last Session of Parliament. — Colonial independence, 

gislate for the Colonies. But the power of Parliament so to legislate 
being granted, it is obvious that all else is a mere war of words. The 
mandate of a Secretary of State cannot control the colonial authorities: 
granted. But an act of Parliament can control them. Has then 
the Secretary of State applied to Parliament for an act, and been re- 
fused ? To what purpose is it, therefore, to affirm the independence of 
the colonial legislatures on the orders of a Secretary of State, when that 
Secretary of State has only to apply to Parliament, with a certainty of 
obtaining it, for an act which shall enforce the measures he deems to be 
necessary in order to redeem the pledges, not only of the Government, 
but of the Parliament too. But this is using force. And would you use 
force ? Yes, that species of force by which this country, free as it is, is 
governed ; that only species of force which either Lord Calthorpe, or any 
man in his senses could contemplate except in extreme cases, we mean the 
force of law. And why should any colony, or class of colonies be ex- 
empt from this legitimate species of force ? It-is one thing to compel a 
legislature to adopt certain measures by the application of the bayonet, 
by rude physical force, — an expedient of which no man in his senses 
could even dream. It is quite another thing for a competent legislative 
authority to pass a law, and, having passed it, to require obedience to it 
under the penalties it prescribes, and to enforce those penalties by due 
legal process. Acts of Parliament are, and ever have been, binding on 
the colonies, though an order of a Secretary of State is not. It is not, 
therefore, constitutionally correct to say, that we can only govern the 
colonies by laws enacted by their own legislatures; for it is not only in 
the power, but within the competency, as it is also the practice, of Par- 
liament to legislate for them. 

But then we are told of the inexpediency and the danger of employ- 
ing this species of constraint; of thus inteifering by parliamentary 
enactment with the spontaneous movements of the local legislatures. 
But how directly at variance is this argument with the conduct which 
the government has unhesitatingly pursued in other and strictly analo- 
gous cases. Great Britain possesses two classes of Colonies. The one 
class is under the supreme legislation of the king in council, but having 
its own subordinate and local council, or cabildo, or court of policy. 
The other class is under the supreme legislation of Parliament, having 
local elective assemblies of its own. In the former case, when any disposi- 
tion is manifested to refuse compliance with the recommendation of the 
Secretary of State, he makes no scruple of applying to the king in 
council for an order which supersedes all further resistance. In the 
latter^ he has it equally in his power to enforce his recommendation, if 
it should be rejected or evaded, by calling upon parliament for its aid. 

And observe how the Secretary of State actually proceeded in the former 
case. In 1824, he combined the various measures of reform, which were 
deemed necessary for Trinidad, into one enactment, and then obtained an 
order in council imposing all these measuses at once on that Colony. 
The colonists remonstrated against this summary process, but in vain. 
The mandate of the Secretary of State, thus backed, was imperative, and 
it proved also irresistible. The colonists of Trinidad clamored at first,. 
but they submitted with the best grace they could, as soon as they found 
clamour to be unavailing. The same course, with slight variations, has 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Colonial Independence. 289 

been generally pursued in the other crown colonies. In some instances, 
there has been a shew of consulting the local authorities, previous to 
the imposition of the enactment framed by the Secretary of State ; but 
if their opinions happened to be opposed to his recommendation, he 
forthwith assumed a more peremptory tone, and then that recommenda- 
tion was either prudently and quietly adopted, or, being backed by an 
order in council, became at once irresistible. 

Now what is there which can justify the Secretary of State, as far at 
least as the question of inexpediency or of danger is involved, in pursuing 
such a line of policy with respect to the crown colonies, which would 
not equally justify its adoption in the case of the colonies having local 
assemblies ? The only difference would be that the support which he de- 
rives in the one case from an order in council, he must derive in the other 
from an act of parliament. 

Is it just and right that he should be able to compel, by an order in 
council, the colonies of Trinidad, St. Lucia, Demerara, and Berbice, to 
submit to the laws he may prescribe for abolishing the cartwhip and the 
flogging of females ; granting to the slaves various civil rights, as those 
of property, redemption, marriage, evidence, &c. ; restoring to them the 
sabbath of which they have been iniquitously deprived ; interposing an 
independent protector of their rights against the encroachments of ar- 
bitrary power, and the injustice and oppressions of masters and their 
delegates : — Is this just and right ? And is it not equally just and right, 
when Jamaica, Barbadoes, St. Kitts, Grenada, St. Vincents, and the 
other islands, having assemblies of their own, absolutely refuse to com- 
ply with these reasonable requisitions, that they also should be com- 
pelled to submit to them by an act of parliament, to the authority of 
which they are to the full as amenable as the others are to an order in 
council? Is there any greater hardship to the whites in the one case 
than in the other ? Is there any benefit conferred on the slaves by the 
compulsory enactment of the supreme legislative authority in the one 
case, which would not be equally attained by a similar compulsion in 
the other ? The danger too of interference between master and slave, 
in either case, whatever be its amount, is precisely the same : nor is 
there a single opposing consideration, drawn from that relation, which 
does not apply equally to both classes of colonies. In truth, however, 
experience has established, beyond controversy, the perfect safety of 
such interference. 

But we must have the concurrence, we are told, of the colonists, or 
all our legislation will be useless. Be it so. But is not that concur- 
rence equally necessary in Trinidad or Demerara, as in Jamaica or Bar- 
badoes ? You who make this objection have not been deterred, by this 
consideration, from imposing your just and humane reforms on Trinidad 
and Demerara. On what ground of consistency do you decline to im- 
pose them on Jamaica and Barbadoes? Are you not equally pledged 
respecting the one as the other? Are not your means of enforce- 
ment as legitimate and as irresistible in the one case as in the other ? 
Are not the king's black subjects in Jamaica and Barbadoes as fully en- 
titled to the protection of beneficent laws as those in Trinidad and De- 
merara ? And if what is right to be done in the two first, must, as we 
are told, be done only by degrees, and without even the force of law^ 



290 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — West India Legislation, 

and only by persuasion, why has not this principle been acted upon 
throughout, and applied to the two last also ? No weight was given in 
their case to the fear of irritation. The act of the king in council, 
aided by his colonial courts of law, put an end at once to all resistance. 
And would not an act of Parliament, administered by independent pro- 
tectors and other independent functionaries, have equal power in Jamaica 
and Barbadoes? It is quite a new principle in British Legislation to be 
deterred, by the fear of irritating offenders, from enacting laws to punish 
their crimes, or to protect the weak from oppression and wrong. 

4. While indulgence is said to be due to the West Indian legislators 
on account of their inaptitude for legislation, it seems to be assumed 
as the most desirable course, that the delicate and difficult task of legis- 
lating between master and slave, and of raising the latter to his master's 
moral, and social, and political level, should be committed to the masters 
alone. Now we confess that we differ entirely from this view of the 
subject, whether propounded by the friends or by the enemies of colo- 
nial reform. We are so far from being of this opinion, that we main- 
tain, with Mr. Canning, that there is a necessary and insuperable unfit- 
ness, in persons nurtured as it were in the lap of slavery and in habits 
of uncontrolled despotism, to legislate efficaciously, with a view to the 
protection and freedom, and the eventual civil equality of their bonds- 
men. And so have our ministers thought in the case of Trinidad, 
Demerara, Berbice, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good Hope, and the Mauri- 
tius, with their 250,000 slaves. The colonists there have been regarded, 
it is true, as unapt legislators for such a purpose, but they have not, on 
that account, been indulged with the liberty of passing such crude, and 
partial, and selfish acts, as must necessarily result from the combination 
of gross ignorance of general principles, with the habitual practice of 
unmeasured despotism, and from the pride, passion, and prejudice 
which are, and must be, their unfailing fruits. On the contrary, the 
colonial Secretary, backed by the authority of the king in councd, has 
peremptorily prescribed, to the slave holders of these colonies, not only 
the measures that are to be enacted, but the very terms in which the 
enactments are to be expressed. No material deviation from these terms 
has been permitted. And it is impossible to go through the despatches 
of Lord Bathurst, when Secretary of State, without perceiving that his 
conviction of the inaptitude of the colonists for the work of legislation, 
had determined him not only not to throw upon them that task, but, on 
the contrary, wholly to relieve them from it; and that, therefore, he had 
imposed upon them, without scruple, the laws which were thought neces- 
sary, clothing those laws in the terms, and arming them with the sanctions, 
which were deemed to be best adapted to the ends of enlightened legisla- 
tion. We are not now considering the sufficiency or insufficiency of 
these laws for their professed purpose, but simply the course which 
Government has thought it wise and politic to pursue with respect to 
the above six colonies. — But what are the peculiar internal circumstances 
of these six colonies, which have rendered it so necessary that they should 
not be left to frame a slave code for themselves, and that the very form 
and language of it should be peremptorily prescribed by the king in 
council; while it is inexpedient and undesirable that, in the remaining 
thirteen colonies, parliament should do for them what the" king in council 



Jlevieio of Last Session of Parliament, — West India Legislation. 291 

has done for the others? What is the radical ground of distinction? 
None whatever, except that the propriety of such a policy might be 
rendered, if possible, still more apparent in the case of the Colonies 
having legislative assemblies of iheir own, than in that of the others. 
Let any one contemplate the absurdity of investing each petty commu- 
nity of whites in the West Indies with all the attributes of a parlia- 
ment, and calling them to deliberate and decide, on the gravest questions 
in legislation, for persons with whom they have no feelings of social and 
civil sympathy, and no sense of identity of interest, but whom they re- 
gard as their goods and chattels, as mere instruments of profit; from 
whose bones and sinews, from whose wasted health and shortened life, 
from whose incessant and uncompensated toil, wrung from them by the 
compelling and torturing power of the cartwhip or the cat, they derive 
their income, their means of gratification and even of subsistence. And 
then consider how this white community is composed. We need only refer 
our readers for an accurate account of a considerable portion of it to a 
living authority of great respectability, the Right Honourable Hugh 
Elliot, who, after a residence for some time as Governor in the Leeward 
Islands, thus describes, in a despatch to Lord Liverpool, of Novem- 
ber 21, 1810, the dominant class of their inhabitants. Speaking of the 
state of the local governments, he observes, " I do not apprehend that 
the defects complained of are to be ascribed principally to the remissness 
or culpability of their leading members. The root of the evil lies deeper. 
The fact is, the governments of these Islands were formed in times 
when many of the proprietors lived upon their estates, and the white 
population was more numerous than it now is. Of the free white in- 
habitants who remain, managers, overseers, self-created lawyers, self- 
educated physicians, and adventurous merchants, with little real capital 
and scanty credit, comprise the greatest part. The acquirements of edu- 
cation, among many of this description of persons, are very unequal to 
the task of taking a share in the Governments. The prevalence of 
principle is also, I fear, not to be fairly calculated from the repetition of 
the hackneyed expressions of which an ostentatious use is frequently 
made in addresses, and on all occasions meant to meet the public eye at 
home. To collect, from such a state of society, men ft to be legisla- 
tors, judges, or jurymen is perfectly impracticable. Individual interest, 
personal influence, animosity of party feuds, weigh down the scale of 
justice, and direct the course of legislative authority into acts of arbi- 
trary and unjustifiable power, cloaked under the semblance, and digni- 
fied with the name of constitutional acts. * In short, I apprehend the 
defects prevailing in the present state of the governments cannot be re- 
medied without a future appeal to the wisdom of His Majesty's en- 
lightened councils at home." And yet it is to these men we deem it 
right to intrust the solution of perhaps the most difficult problem in le- 
gislation, the peaceful transmutation of slaves into freemen! 

If the fairness of Mr. Elliot's description is doubted, look at their sta- 



* The aggregate of the whole constituent body of the thirteen independent 
West India Legislatures, does not equal, either in number or respectability, 
the electors of the single borough of Leicester. 



292 Review of the Last Session of Parliament. 

lute books. Read the disgusting and barbarous enactments which per- 
vade them, marking throughout the uniform effect of unmeasured des- 
potism stimulated by cupidity, in blinding the understanding, hard- 
ening the heart, and deadening every human sympathy. Examine even 
their latest and best efforts of legislation : examine them with the com- 
mentaries, not to say of the Anti-Slavery Society, but of Lord Bathurst 
and Mr. Huskisson, in your hands, and you will at once be convinced of 
the utter hopelessness and impossibility of seeing the pledges of parlia- 
ment fulfilled, by leaving to colonial legislators the construction of 
their slave codes. This is a work which parliament is constitutionally 
empowered to effect, and which parliament alone can accomplish. We 
trust that the people of England will become more deeply impressed 
every day with this truth, and that they will not rest from their efforts, 
their prayers, and their remonstrances, until they shall have fixed the 
same conviction deep in the minds of their representatives. 

We had intended to have laid before our readers the substance of two 
speeches which were delivered by Lord Seaford, in the House of Lords, 
in reply to Lord Calthorpe, with our comments upon them, but our 
space is exhausted, and we must defer our purpose. When we have 
the opportunity of resuming the subject, his Lordship will find that 
we have not been inattentive to his claims on the public attention. 
In the mean time let it suffice to remark, that in the whole of his two 
elaborate speeches, there scarcely occurs a single position which we 
are not prepared to controvert. 

It was also our intention to have given an abstract of the various 
discussions which have taken place on the subject of the sugar duties, 
and other points connected with the West Indian monopoly, but we are 
under the necessity of postponing, for the present, any reference to that 
important question. 

We are further compelled to defer the analysis, which we had pre- 
pared, of the reports lately published, with no small ostentation, on the 
subject of religious instruction in the West Indies. These, we regret to 
say, are marked by some of the same traits of delusion which have so 
generally characterized the representations of the colonists on the sub- 
ject of reform ; but which, we had hoped, would have found no place 
in the publications of religious societies. 



All Communications to be addressed to the Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
18, Aldermanbury, London; where the publications of the Society are on sale, 
and also at Hatchard's, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 



London : Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew -Clos», 



> 



