NOTES 

ON THE 

TWO REPORTS 

FROM THE 

COMMITTEE 

OF THE HONOURABLE 

Houfe of Ajfembly of yamaica, &c 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/notesontworeportOOfull 



NOT E S 

O N T H E 

TWO REPORTS 

FROM THE 

COMMITTEE 

OF THE HONOURABLE 

Houfe of jiffembly of yamaica. 



APPOINTED 

To examine into, and to report to the House, the Allegations 
and Charges contained in the feveral Petitions which have been 
prefented to the British House of Commons, on the Subject 
of the Slave Trade, and the Treatment of the Negroes, 
&c. &c. &c. 



BY A 

JAMAICA PLANTER. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED AND SOLD BY JAMES PHILLIPS, GEORGE- 
YARD, LOMBARD-STREET. 



M.DCC.LXXXIX, 






J \ 






: 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



TH E following remarks are not publifhed 
with a view to excite odium againft any 
individuals, or bodies of men, but to elucidate truth, 
and to illustrate this general pofition, that the ha- 
bitual exercife of that arbitrary dominion which 
the matter pofTefTes over the Have, communicates 
an involuntary bias, even to well difpofed minds, 
againft the juft claims of humanity, and that it is 
difficult, if not impoffible, to interpofe effectual 
laws retraining fuch dominion. Notwithstand- 
ing the favourable light in which the framers of 
the Reports wifti the ftate of the laws in Jamaica 
previous to the Act of 1788 to be confidered, it is 
evident from the Reports themfelves, that a very 
imperfect and limited protection was fecured to the 
flave. If the flave were killed it was indeed de- 
clared to be felony by a law paffed fo lately as 
1787, but, the benefit of clergy not being barred, 
the punifhment, of courfe, was flight, or more 
properly none at all. As to mutilation, difmem- 
berment, and numberlefs modes of cruelty under 
which the flave might fuffer, he appears to have 
been left very much at the difcretion of his mafter : 

A For 



[ s ] 

For though a penalty of iool. was laid on the 
mailer for fuch mutilation or difmemberment, yet 
as the teftimony of the Have was not admiffible 
againft him, it is not probable that it could 
ever be recovered; and the 8th claufe of the Act 
of 1 78 1 (Report, p. 6.) which ordains the punifh- 
ment of fine and imprifonment on any per/on wantonly 
beating ajlave not his own property, plainly denotes 
the infecurity of the flave from fuch wanton 
affaults of his own matter. The infrequency 
too of publick executions (p. 9.) feems to indi- 
cate either that the conduct of the Haves was not 
fo vicious as has been reprefented, or that the 
mafter was accuftomed to affume to himfelf the 
offices of judge, jury, and executioner. What in- 
deed can be thought of the humanity of that code 
of laws which permitted mutilation and maiming, 
as judicial punishments for crimes! (fee Report, 
p. 17). Every one who knows how deeply power 
corrupts the human heart, will lament the humi- 
liating condition of the Haves, when fo much li- 
cence was allowed to bad tempers, and when the 
very fyftem of ilavery tends to create or inflame 
fuch tempers. 

The inftance of fuffering thefe lenient and falu- 
tary laws, as they are called, to lie totally extinct 
for three years, viz. from 1784 to 1787, (Report, 
p. 6.) is a ftriking proof of their inefficacy, and 
of the little regard paid to them. 

The laft law, pafled in Jamaica in 1788 affords, 
however, a profpect of meliorating the fituation of 
the Haves. A new law in Grenada profeffes the 
fame benevolent purpofe. Laws of melioration 

and 



[ iii ] 

and improvement are a credit to thofe who pro- 
mote them, but they certainly imply former de- 
fects, and nothing can more fully confirm the ac- 
counts which are given of the tyranny of mafters, 
than this tacit acknowledgment of the little re- 
straint they were, till lately, under. This, in- 
deed, is exprefsly admitted in the preamble to the 
Grenada Act, which is as follows : 

<e Whereas the laws made for the protection of 
*' flaves have been found infufficlent , and whereas 
se humanity and the interefh of the colony re- 
" quire that falutary and adequate regulations 
" and provisions mould be adopted for rendering 
st their fervitude as limited and eafy as poffible, 
" and for promoting the increafe of their popu- 
*' lation, as the moft likely means of removing in 
" the courfe of time the neceffity of further im- 
** portations of negroes from Africa: And where- 
** as thefe defirable ends cannot be fo effectually 
'* obtained, as by prefcribing reafonable bounds to 
" the power of mafters and others having the charge 
tf of JlaveSy by compelling them fufficiently and 
■" properly to lodge, feed, clothe, and maintain 
" them, by introducing them to the knowledge 
" of the Chriftian religion, and affording them. 
" opportunity of improvement in morality, and by 
** inducing them to regular marriage, and when 
' e married, protecting them in their conj ugal rights .'* 
Be it therefore enacted, &c. 

After all, when it is confidered that the diftance 
between a mafter and a Have is infinitely greater 
than that between any other Situations in human 
life, it may well be doubted whether any laws can 

A 2 . be 



[ iv ) 

be fo framed as to afford effectual protection to the 
Have. If it is difficult, even in this free country, 
for a poor man to obtain legal redrefs for the op- 
preffion of the rich, how much more difficult 
mufl it be in countries where the dominion of the 
rich is fo abfolute, that the murmurings of com- 
plaint may be refented as an affront, and punifhed 
as a crime ? While ' local policy' ufurps the feat 
of equity, and ' requires a diftinction between the 
modes of trying black or white perfons, ,i f* the ad- 
miniftration of juftice muft. be very defective and 
partial. 

If, however, the planters by thefe Acts fincerely 
mean a gradual improvement in the ftate of the flaves, 
let us rejoice in the hope that a melioration of the 
ftate of flavery will be accompanied by a melioration 
of the tempers of the flave-holders, and that, by de- 
grees, fuch manners and principles will prevail, as 
will render acts of tyranny and cruelty difgraceful 
in the eyes of the country. May the fpirit of hu- 
manity, and the love of freedom, fo congenial to the 
Britifn nation, extend their influence till the legif- 
latures, both national and provincial, may perceive 
that no fubftantial and durable intereft can be de- 
rived from fo polluted a fource as flavery ! 

THE EDITOR. 

t See Report, p. 16 in the notes. 



( 5 ) 



NOTES 

ON THE 

re p o r t s; 

To 

N a former letter I mentioned the two Reports 
publifhed by our Houfe of Reprefentatives on 
the applications of the people in Britain to the 
Houfe of Commons, for the Abolition of the 
African Slave Trade -, and having charged the faid 
Reports with wilful deception, and holding out 
of falfe lights, I think it neceffary to prove the 
charge, which I apprehend will be done by tran- 
fcribing the pencilled notes I made in the margin 
of the printed copies of the faid Reports, on the 
firfr. curfory perufal thereof. But firft I will pre- 
mife, that " the Committee, appointed to inquire 
" into and report to the houfe the Allegations and 
" Charges, contained in the feveral petitions which 
" have been prefented to the Britifh Houfe of 
" Commons on the fubject of the Slave Trade, and 
" the Treatment of theNegiOes, &c. &c. &c." had 
two objects in view, and for the effecting of which 
the Reports are calculated, more than with any 
real intention or hope of folidly refuting the allega- 
tions and charges contained in the faid petitions, 

A 3 many 



( 6 ) 

many of which the Committee knew were too well 
grounded in facts to be refuted. 

The firft object the Committee had in view was 
a very laudable one. There had been prepared, and 
was then pending, a bill for fecuring more impar- 
tial trials and better treatment to Haves ; and the 
Committee were well informed that every oppofi- 
tion would be given to it in the Council. Thofe 
who difliked the bill, that is, thofe who did not 
like to have any penalties or reftrictions laid on that 
cruelty, and injuftice, which they were confcious 
they had been, and probably intended to be again, 
guilty of, faid confidently, and people generally 
apprehended, that it would be thrown out by the 
Council. Some of the more fenlible and humane 
members of the Committee conceived that, by 
quoting in their Report feveral of the moft. favour- 
able claufes of the bill, that is, thofe which they 
apprehended would meet with mort oppofition in 
the Council, and be more like to occafion the 
mifcarriage of the bill $ by reafoning on, and tak- 
ing credit for thofe claufes >, by fending their report 
to the Governor, for his tranfmiffion of it to the 
Secretary of State, in order to its being laid before 
the King in Council; by publifhing it, by printing 
it here, and by directing the Agent of the Ifland in 
London, to print it there, and not only to prefent 
copies thereof to the Members of each Houfe of 
Parliament, and to each of the bodies which had 
petitioned the Houfe of Commons, but alio dif- 
perfing it generally through the kingdoms, the Le- 
giflature would be pledged to pafs the bill into a 
law, and the Council feeing the difreputation and ill 
confequences that would refult from their refufing 

to 



( 7 ) 

to give their affent, would alfo pafs it, and it was 
known that the Governor was with the bill : or on 
the other hand, fhould the Council after all, deter- 
mine to rejed it, the odium would fall alone on 
that board, and not on the people at large, or on 
their reprefentatives, who had fhewn their willing- 
nefs to have the law made, by having originated and 
paffed it, which would tend to their exculpation in 
the eyes of the publick from the charges of cruelty 
and tyranny, more than any thing that could be 
offered in difproof of the allegations. I am 
afraid that too many wimed for this cheap and 
plaufible mode of exculpation, which would coil 
them nothing; for if the bill did not pafs into a 
law, they would have credit for all that was good 
in it without being bound to the conceffions which 
conftituted that good : ts How can the people of 
" Britain blame, or the Legijlature go about to 
<e punife, us for abufes which we wife to reform, but 
" are prevented from reforming by the Board of 
" Council appointed by themf elves •> — fay by the 
f* Crown ?"— With fuch as held up this dangerous 
idea, I reafoned thus : The ifland Hands pledged by 
the Report, to pafs the bill into a law, and if it 
mail not be paffed, what can the nation think but 
that there has been a bafe collufion between the two 
branches of the Legiilature here? Will not they 
argue after this manner? " Was there ever fo bafe, 
fo vile a fubterfuge as this ? They ffcood charged 
with cruelty, tyranny, and injuftice, and how do they 
act under the charges ? — We confefs, fay they, to 
the publick of Great Britain, (who are their ac- 
cufers) we confefs, that the laws refpecting our 
Haves, are not fo good as they might be ; you have 
called our attention to them> and we fee that they 

A 4 require 



( 8 ) 

require amendments ; we thank you, and we will 
forthwith make the. requifite amendments ; our 
Attembly are already forward in the falutary work 5 
they have prepared a bill, which when patted into 
a law, will fecure our flaves from cruel treatment, 
and partial trials. But whilft they in effect fay this, 
by publishing the Reports of their AiTembly, no- 
thing is farther from their intentions, than that fuch 
bill fhould be patted into a law. They knew that by 
a collufive agreement it was to be rejected by their 
Board of Council — they knew that Parliament 
would meet early, and that the Houfe of Commons 
was pledged to take cognisance of the petitions on 
the Slave Trade amongft the firfl objects of their 
attention ; and they conceived that the two Reports 
of their Affembly, and the copy of the bill alluded 
to, would not only fatisfy the Houfe, but alfo ap- 
peafe the petitioners at large, and the bulinefs would 
be flittered to die away ; and they flattered them- 
felves, that as the bill, by concert, would not 
finally be rejected till the clofe of their Seflion, 
before an account of its rejection could reach to 
Britain, it would be too late in the feflion here to 
rem me a bulinefs of fuch importance, as the Abo- 
lition of the African Slave Trade. Surely thofe 
people are hardened in iniquity, and loft to all 
fenfe of thame." May not the people in Britain, I 
faid, reafon in this manner, and in refentment of 
fuch unworthy conduct, may not their indignation 
lead them to acts of feverity, which they would 
not otherwife have thought eligible ? And what but 
the deteftation of all good men can be expected from 
fuch vile duplicity as we mail be thought guilty of ? 
Do you fuppofe, that the people of Britain will 
eafily lofe fight of this great national bufinefs, in 

which 



( 9 ) 

which they are now involved ? For after the matter 
hath been brought into open light, and agitated fo, 
that no man can plead ignorance on the fubjecl, it 
now concerns them as a nation ; if they wink at 
our crimes, they will be partakers of our guilt, and 
muft expect to partake of our punifhment. I am 
perfuaded, that there are myriads of men of fober 
minds, and cultivated understandings, as well as 
tender confciences, who think thus, for all who 
believe fe that there is a God that judgeth the 
" earth," muft think fo, and therefore they will 
not, they cannot with peace, lofe fight of it. But 
fome may fay, Do you efteem it no injury to lofe a 
whole day's labour of our Haves out of every twelve ? 
And is it nothing that negroes and Haves fhall be 
tried like white men, like free Britifh men, by 
grand and petit juries ? — What poffible injury can 
that do to white men, if thofe juries, who are 
themfelves white men, do juftice on fuch trials? 
i — But they are not by the bill to be tried like 
Britifh men — they are not to be tried by their Peers.—* 
But, are the eternal rules of juftice to bend to the 
pride and caprice of one fet of men, who happen, 
hy fome means, to be porTeffed with " a little brief 
* c authority," to the prejudice and mifery of others ? 
Do you really fuppofe, that there are two forts of 
juftice with that Being who made all men of one 
flefh, though not all of one colour, and who is no 
refpe&er of perfons, but amongft all nations and 
people, accepts of them who do juftly, love mercy, 
and fear to offend him ? As to this day in two 
weeks, I am convinced, on good grounds, that it 
would not be loft; it would be a benefit to all who 
chearfully granted it. Does not the experience of 
all ages and nations fhew^ that in every climate, and 

moft 



[ >o ] 

moil in hot and debilitating ones, fuch as this, reft 
after labour is neceffary ? The Being, who created 
man, who knows his frame, and what his nature 
requires, has declared, that one day's reft after fix 
of labour is requifite. Juftice and obedience to the 
moral law out of the queftion, and confidering 
negroes merely as labouring animals, will not their 
ftrength be renewed and invigorated by returns of 
reft, and will not they be thereby enabled to do 
more work in five days, fo recruited, than in fix, 
exhaufted and difpirited by continual toil? — But 
that they would is not a matter of conjecture, or of 
argument : I have the irrefragable teftimony of ex- 
perience for it that they will. I give, I beg pardon, 
reafon and humanity give, and I allow, them one 
day in each week to labour for themfelves ; God 
has given them another of reft from their labours; 
and I find, that in the other five they do more work 
without whipping, or fear of whipping, than ma- 
ny other peoples do in fix, though urged by cruel 
feverity. — Count what is loft by unwillingnefs and 
defertion, by advertifing runaways, and fending out 
parties to fearch for and bring them in, and fee 
to what it amounts ? I have no deductions of that 
kind to make, for I have not, for years paft, had 
one negroe abfent for a day, without leave, though 
I take not the cruel, though common precautions 
to prevent their running away, by branding their 
flefh with the letters of my name, or the marks of 
my plantations. — It is to be hoped I brought over 
fome to my way of thinking. — But to come back 
to the other object: aimed at by the Committee in 
their Reports : It was fimply to exculpate the ifland 
from the charges of cruelty, injuftice, and tyranny; 
at any rate, right or wrong, to exculpate us. 

This 



[ « J 

This is a heavy charge, but I will prove it, and 
challenge any man of honour to deny it. Two of 
the moft active Members in the Committee, both 
men of great humanity, whofe negroes are treated 
with uncommon lenity, were earnefl to purge the 
illand from the charges of cruelty and injuftice, 
which they thought did not exift, and they fet 
about collecting fuch proofs and vouchers as they 
conceived would teftify to the world how much the 
people of this illand were mifreprefented, and how 
injuriouily calumniated j but what was their 
aftonifhment, when the inquiry which they had 
instituted, and from v/hich they expected to refute 
the allegations and charges contained in the peti- 
tions to the Houfe of Commons, furnimed themofl 
indifputable teftimonies that the charges of cruelty, 
tyranny, and injuftice were well founded ? Cruelty 
and tyranny in the treatment of negroes by indi- 
viduals, and publick partiality and injuftice in trials, 
both of white people for fuch cruelty, and of 
negroes for crimes of which they flood charged.-— 
What was to be done then ? " If we report gene- 
rally that fome of the allegations and charges may 
be true, there will be great danger -, but if we 
report particularly the remit of our inquiries, 
there will be an abfolute certainty of the Slave Trade 
being abolijloed. Let us then throw a veil over the 
paft, fince we can neither recall nor juftify it; but 
let us exert ourfelves, by all means, to prevent the 
like enormities in future." 

I come now to my notes on the two Reports of 
the Houfe, which were written as I read them : 
they will tend to give a jufter idea of the Subject, 
perhaps, than a more elaborate treatife. 

NOTES 



[ 12 J 

NOTES ON THE FIRST REPORT. 

<( P. 2. The Committee are of opinion, that the 
principle of the faid Ad: of the Britifh Parliament* 
is founded in juftice, humanity, and neceffity; 
and that the provifions adopted therein, when 
further matured by the wifdom of parliament, 
muft ultimately prove highly beneficial to the 
fugar colonies, inafmuch as it is notorious, that 
veffels have been frequently crowded with a 
greater number of negroes than they ought in 
prudence to have contained. And it is the opi- 
nion of the Committee, that the wifdom and 
authority of parliament might be beneficially 
exerted, in further regulations of the African 
commerce; particularly, in preventing the de- 
tention of mips on the coaft ; in prohibiting the 
purchafe of flaves who mall appear to have been 
kidnapped, or deprived of liberty contrary to 
the ufage and cuftom of Africa; and in com- 
pelling the faid mips to tranfport an equal num-* 
ber of both fexes, and to provide ventilators, 
and a fufficient quantity of provifions, efpecially 

water. -^It feems not to be underftood in 

Great Britain, that the inhabitants of the Weft 
India iflands have no concern in the mips trad- 
ing to Africa : — The African trade is purely a 
Britifh trade, carried on by Britifh fubjecl:s re- 
fiding in Great Britain, on capitals of their own; 
— the connexion and intercourfe between the 
planters of this ifland, and the merchants of 
Great Britain trading to Africa, extend no fur- 
ther than the mere purchafe of what Britifh a&a 
have declared to be legal objects of purchafe." 



* The Aft pated laft feffion, 



With 



[ 13 J 

With refpect to the crowding of veffels, fee 
notes in the fequel, on the examination of MeflVs. 
Chifolme, Anderfon, and Quier. 

The tender care profefTed here by a Jamaica 
Houfe of AfTembly, for the rights and liberties of the 
natives of Africa, is too Extraordinary a circumftance 
not to ftrike the obfervation of the reader. Thofe 
who have given any attention to the publica- 
tions on the ufe, propriety, and juftice, of the 
Have trade, will have obferved that of thofe who 
defend the benefit, right and juftice, the moll able, 
that is, the moft artful, perceiving the impoffibility 
of juftifying our making (laves, or the encouraging 
others in the making Haves, of thofe who are born, 
in a ftate of natural and political freedom, either 
deny that the natives of Africa have fuch rights, or 
allege that they have forfeited them to the laws 
of their country by crimes, the punifhment of 
which is flavery. Some defcribe the governments 
in Africa to be univerfally pure defpotifm, or they 
argue as if they fuppofed they were fuch, and con- 
clude that the ftate of ilavery in the Britifh colo- 
nies is fo much preferable to the condition our 
Haves were removed from, that the change is a 
real bleffing. Long, on this fubje6t, (fee chap- 
ters, I. II. III. Book 3. of the 2d vol. of his 
Hiftory of Jamaica, intitled Negroes) determined 
to lay a folid foundation for the wicked con- 
clufions he intended to draw, fuppofes them fcarce- 
ly, if at all, fuperior to brute beafts -, the conclu- 
fion from which is, that they were meant for the 
flaves of men, white men to be fure, or Indians ; 
for, according to Mr. Long, negroes are hardly 

men, 



[ i4 ] 

men. Then having reafoned them down to a le- 
vel with ourang outangs; or rather the ourangs up 
to, or rather above the negroes, he proceeds to 
ftate that their government is fo arbitrary, and 
their condition fo abfolutely flavifh, that it is a 
great melioration of their ftate to transfer them to 
the condition of flavery, them and their pofterity, 
in Jamaica or the other iflands. Now we fee it 
is admitted that there are free people in Africa, 
and an anxious care is taken by the legiflature of 
Jamaica to obferve that the rights of thofe free men 
mall not be infringed, left it might draw the 
good people of Jamaica into the dreadful predi- 
cament of having bought as flaves thofe who had 
a right to freedom. Now, if one who has feen 
how negroes are fold on board a Guinea fhip were 
to read this paflage, and were to afk thofe confci- 
entious committee men this queftion :• — " You fee, 
Gentlemen, how very necefiary it is to guard 
againft the kidnapping of free people of Africa, 
and until fome care mail be taken in that par- 
ticular by the wifdom and authority of the 
Britifh parliament, pray how do you intend to 
guard yourfelf from partaking in the fame guilt 
as the kidnapper ? How have you guarded againft 
it hitherto ? I fuppofe you either took with you a 
linguift, and examined thofe you intended to buy 
fome days before the fale; or if that could not be, 
and as it is impoflible at the fale, then I fuppofe 
on taking them home you went through the ne- 
cefTary fcrutiny, and on finding that the negro was 
born free, and had not forfeited that freedom by 
committing felony, of courfeyou reftored him to 
<f that liberty of which he was unjuftly deprived. " 

I fay, 



f u ] 

I fay, was any man ferioufly to put this que/Hon 
to the very men who framed that claufe, they 
would laugh in his face. Let me fpeak out, that 
claufe and feveral others in the bill, are merely 
held out to amufe the people at large in England, 
but here has no meaning, and I quote it to fhew 
the low artifices which even a legiflative body are 
obliged to floop to, when to fupprefs what is true, 
and to affect what has no exiftence, becomes ne- 
ceflary to fupport the caufe they advocate. 

The falutary effects of ventilators in mips navi- 
gating tropical climates when crowded with people, 
is too well known to need any farther argument. 
I will only obferve on this pafTage, that if govern- 
ment mall not think proper immediately to abo- 
lifh the Have trade, but in humane consideration 
of the horrible condition of negroes in Guinea 
mips, fhall by law oblige the owners of thofe mips 
to provide them with ventilators j that care be 
taken that they be constructed fo as to perform 
their office by the agency of fire, wind, or the 
motion of the Ship through the water, or by all of 
them; and not to require the labour of men to work 
them : and that proof mall be made on the entry 
of the mips in the iflands, that fuch ventilators 
have been kept constantly operating : otherwife 
fome things to which the names of ventilators 
may be given, will be put up merely to avoid the 
penalty of the law, but without anfwering the good 
purpofe intended. 

*'P. 3. The Committee are further of opinion, that 
<e as to the charges and allegations brought againSl 
*' us, with regard to the treatment and Situation 

" of 



[ i6 3 

«* of flaves in this ifland, it is neceffary, and eafy, 
" to difprove the fame, by demonftrating, ift, that 
'* negroes in this ifland are under the protection 
" of lenient and falutary laws, fuited to their fitu- 
f* ation and circumftances ; — 2dly, that the flave* 
" laws are executed with humanity, mildnefs, and 
** mercy; — 3^1y, that the laws have made pro- 
** vifions to grant flaves days of reft, and to prevent 
" their being in want of the neceflaries of life ;-— 
** and, 4thly, that the decreafe of our flaves does 
*' not arife from the caufes alledged in the peti- 
4C tions prefented to the Britifh Houfe of Com- 
fe mons, but from various other caufes not im- 
** putable to us, and which the people in Great 
" Britain do not feem to comprehend." 

For Remarks on the lenity of thefe laws, and of 
their execution, vide Notes on the Second Re- 
port. 



SECOND 



[ 17 ] 



SECOND REPORT. 

For Obfervations on the renewal of the act of 
1784, fee note farther on. 

" On this fubject we have to obferve, that it 
*■ appears by the letters of our Agent, that cer- 
" tain heads of inquiry were tranfmitted to him 
'* a few months ago, from a Committee of the 
" Lords of His Majefty's Moil Honourable 
<< Privy Council, many of which related to 
" the condition and government of our flaves; 
" and, in anfwer thereto, an abftract of moft of 
** our ancient flave-laws were laid before their 
" Lordfhipsj to which, if neceflary, reference may 
" be had; but it feems not to have been under- 
" flood by our Agent, that in 1781, many of thofe 
" laws were repealed, and all the fubfifling laws 
" and claufes of laws refpecting the order and go- 
t( vernment of flaves were confolidated and brought 
" into one act: — This act is known by the name 
" of the Confolidated Slave Act -, and, having ex- 
" pired on the 31ft day of December 1784, has 
" fince been renewed, with amendments. By 
" the faid act of 178 1, Claufes 2d and 3d, all pof- 
<c feffors of plantations are obliged, under the pe- 
<c nalty of 50I. to allot provilion grounds for each 
" of their Haves, to allow them fufEcient time to 
" work the fame, and alfo to keep in proper cul- 
<e tivation one acre of land, at leaft, for every four 
" negroes in plantain-walk and ground-provifions, 
f * exclufive of the negroes grounds ; and in cafe 
€C the owners or pofleffors have not lands proper 
" for that purpofe, they are required to make 

B ' " fome 



t 18 1 

sf fome other ample provifion for the fupport of 
" their flaves/' 

With refpect to ^Mowing fufficient time to work, 
as no time was fpecified by the ad; as fufficient, nor 
any made compulfory, none was allowed ', and 
therefore this claufe, though plaufible, and quoted 
here as a proof of lenity, never operated in favour 
of one negro in the ifland, fo far as to procure him 
the allowance of one hour, which the framers of 
the Report knew well, and which they own, when 
they come to claim credit for the parallel claufe in 
the new bill. And I think it is no breach of 
charity to affert, that when the claufe was inferted 
in the law, it was forefeen that as it was not com- 
pulfory on any, none would obey. 

" By claufe 4th it is enacted, that every matter, 
" owner, or poffeffor of flaves {hall, under the fame 
" penalty* provide and give to each flave proper 
'* and fufficient cloathing, to be approved of by 
" the juftices and veilry of the parim." 

As the acY did not fpecify what quantity of 
cloathing was to be deemed fufficient, nor compel 
the juftices and veftry to take cognizance of the 
fubject, they of courfe did not take any. This 
claufe therefore, like the preceding one, was fpe- 
cious, but nugatory, I fhall in a fubfequent note 
aflign the real motives of thefe and limilar non- 
effective claufes being inferted. 

" By claufe 5th, flaves giving information of 
** thefts, or other crimes and mifdemeanors, are en- 
" titled to pecuniary rewards 5 which is one proof, 

f( among 



[ 19 ] 

*' among others, that our laws confider fiaves as 
" capable of holding property, and will protect 
*' them therein." 

Why did not the Committee when they were 
exprefsly employed in quoting laws and claufes of 
the humane, mild$ and falutary laws, why, I fay, 
did not they quote the law, or claufes of laws, by 
which negroes are protected in the poffeffion of 
property ? Is it the law that orders them to be 
whipped for having more than five pound of meat 
in their poffeffion ? 

" By Claufe 6th> the penalty of £.100. is laid 
" on any matter or owner who mall mutilate of 
** difmember any flave or fiaves." 

To people in Britain it mull appear ftrange, firft, 
that there fhould be a neceffity for a law to punifh 
matters for mutilating and difmemberihg their fer- 
vants ; and ftill ttranger, that a law fhould be ex- 
tant for inflicting fUch punifhment from the year 
1717, and that great numbers of inttances mould 
be notorioufly known to magiftrates and judges, as 
well as others, of people having mutilated their 
negroes without any perfon whatever recollecting, 
at the times when fuch inttances made it neceffary to 
put the law in force, that there was fuch a law$ 
Granger flill, that the Committee fhould gravely 
affect aftonifhment at the people of England, 
alleging fuch things, when a little inquiry 
would have convinced them — of what ? that 
the allegations were totally groundlefs? — no, by 
no means. But fuch inquiry would have convinced 
them that t the minds of men become indurated by 

B z the 



[ 2° ] 

the habitual profpect of oppreffion and mifery. 
Hundreds of inftances* aye doubtlefs thoufands, of 
difmemberments, mutilations, and abfolute murders 
have occurred, which, by reafon of the evidence of 
negroes not being competent againft white men, 
cannot be cognizable by magistrates. I know two 
men, now living, whole neighbours fay pofitively, 
and every body believes, that each of them has 
murdered fcores of their own negroes. One of 
thofe monfters has been heard to fay, that iince he 
became a planter on his own account, which was 
rather late in life, he had buried, as he termed it, 
357 negroes : and yet this execrable being, arTedted 
to be aftonifhed at a perfon's being fo unpolite as to 
tell him, that if what his neighbours faid of him 
was true, the wonder was not that he had buried fo 
many, but that he had any above ground. 

I muft - not, however, omit to give the claufe of 
amendment in the law of 1787 the praife it juftly 
merits -, it is a good claufe, and not at all to be 
blamed for its not having been put in force oftner 
than it has been. I have for many years been con- 
verfant with Jamaica, and know but of one inilance 
of the law againlt mutilation being inforced, and 
that inftance occurred lince the people in Britain have 
Interefted themfelves in favour of the poor negroes : 
I have been fpeaking of the Adl of 17 17, but there 
is an amendment in the Acl: of 1787, which will 
have a good effect. 

" By Claufe 7th it is enacted, that in cafe any per- 
" fon mail mutilate any Have the property of ano- 
" ther, fuch further punifhment would be iri- 
** Aided, exclufive of the aforefaid fine, as the 

" Court 



[ 21 3 

" Court mould think proper ; and at the fame time 
" the owner of the injured Have is allowed to pur- 
** fue his remedy for damages at common law.*' 

The owner of the injured flave is allowed to 
purfue, &c. And in the name of juftice and 
mercy, why not the injured Jlave alfo allowed ? Is 
this difallowance amongft the other proofs that the 
law will protect him in the porTeflion of property, 
when it provides no remuneration for the lofs of 
his limbs or members ? Why, if the criminal is 
porTerTed of property, ought not he to be compelled 
to make restitution to the injured jlave by pur- 
chafing his liberty, and providing for his fupport? 

" By Claufe 8th, any perfon wantonly beating 
" a Have, not his own property, is liable to be 
" indicted for the fame, and punifhed by fine and 
" imprifonment." 

The preceding note applies equally to this claufe, 
why mould the immediately injured be precluded 
all redrefs — in this world ? 

" When we reflect that many of thefe claufes were 
*' provisions of our ancient laws ; and, in parti- 
" cular, that the penalty on the mailer who mould 
" mutilate or difmember his Have, was enacted fo 
" long ago as the year 17173 and when we confider 
" further, that the faid act of 178 1 was in full 
" force until 31ft December 17843 we cannot 
" fufficiently exprefs our aftonifhment and con- 
" cern, that refpectable bodies of men mould have 
if fubfcribed their names to allegations, which a 

B 3 " little 



[ 22 ] 

" little inquiry muft have convinced them were 
*' totally groundlefs," 

" Enacted fo long ago as 17 17," fince then there 
have been numberlefs difmemberments, publickly 
known, which palled unnoticed by authority. I 
know one extraordinary inftance of a man, I ber 
lieve ftill alive, who difinembered his only ne- 
groe, and now is or lately was led about by that 
very negroe; the inhuman mafter having, foon after 
his barbarity to the poor Have, loft his fight. This 
is a notable anfwer to the argument made ufe of by 
fomp who are averfe to retraining laws, viz. that a 
man's flaves being his property, a regard to his own 
intereft will prevent his injuring their life, health, 
or ftrength. I afked one of thole advocates for un- 
controlled power, if he ever knew a man hurt his 
Jiorfe by over-riding him ? Oh yes. Had he ever 
known a man injure his health by drinking or other 
excefs ? Oh yes, many. Had he ever known any 
who had by gaming,, or other extravagance, ruined 
their fortune, and brought their wives and children 
to diftrefs and want ? By this time he difcovered 
^what I aimed at, and was filent. 

We fee by the next paragraph, that the protecr 
tion of the limbs and lives of the negroes was of 
fo little weight with the legiflature here, that they 
furTered the Jaw of 1784, fo much vaunted for 
affording that protection, to expire, and the 
wretched flaves tp remain at the mercy (that is, the 
cruelty) of whoever chofe to abufe them for three 
years,, 



a 



By 



[ 2 3 ] 

" By Claufe 4th, regulations are made to prevent 
tc flaves being deferted in future by their owners, 
" on account of age and infirmity; and, by a fub- 
** fequent claufe, the juftices and veftry of each 
" town and parifh are empowered to lay a tax upon 
" the inhabitants, for providing food, medical 
" care, and attendance, on flaves already deferted 
" by their owners, and who are difabled from 
** labour by ficknefs, old age, or otherwife. And, 
" in order more effectually to enforce the regula- 
" tions of former laws, reflecting the fubfiftence 
f* and cloathing of flaves, it is enacted, by Claufe 
*' 6th, That every mailer, owner, or attorney, 
" (hall, under a penalty of fifty pounds, give in 
*' to the veftry, on oath, an account of the quan- 
" tity of land in ground provifions (over and 
" above the negro grounds), for the ufe of their 
" flaves j or, in cafe there are not lands proper for 
" the purpofe, an account on oath of the means 
" adopted for the maintenance and fupport of their 
" flaves ; and alfo, under the like penalty, give in 
*' an account of the cloathing actually ferved to 
" each Have.'* 

The whole of the claufes mentioned here are ex- 
cellent. This is not only making laws, but pro>- 
viding for their being executed,- but as for " the 
regulations of former laws," as they are here 
termed, they were not when made, nor till thefe 
claufes were created, ever meant to be enforced. 
The giving into the veftry an account on oath of 
the quantity of land in provifion, and of cloathing 
furnlfhed to the negroes, will I think have the beft 
effects ; and the providing for deferted negroes, was 
lifiening at length to an evil of enormous mag- 

B 4 nitude 4 



[ 24 ] 

nitude, which had long cried to heaven for ven- 
geance. Horribly cruelties" had been exercifed in 
regard to negroes, who were rendered incapable of 
labouring by age or ficknefs, whofe execrable 
matters, after having had the labour of all the 
healthy and vigorous years of their lives, deferted 
them in age, ficknefs, and imbecility; deferted them 
to all the horrors of nakednefs, hunger, and help- 
lefs old age. But the guilt ended not there ; fome 
of thofe poor wretches in this fituation would ileal 
provifions, or fomething wherewith to procure pro- 
vifions j and if detected, the mafter of the Have fo 
detected, the very mafter who had deferted him, 
became his profecutor; becaufe being convicted and 
executed, he, the mafter, became intitled to and 
received from the publick forty pounds. 

On this head let me mention a fingle circum^- 
llance. A planter once on a journey to Kingfton, 
put up for the night at an inn kept by one Bailey, 
a ftrange fellow, but who was not deftitute of hu- 
manity. In the dead of the night the houfe was 
alarmed with a cry of thieves. It was then the 
fafhion to travel armed. On the alarm, the planter 
matched up his fword, and ran out of the door, 
where he prefently feized on a man who was break- 
ing into the provifion ftore. He had juft fecured 
him, with his back to the wall, and the point of 
his fword to his breaft, when the people brought 
lights, and difcovered this dreadful houfe-breaker to 
be a tall emaciated old man, whofe woolly head was 
as white as fnow, and who feemed hardly able to 
ftand. The negroes immediately mentioned his 
name to the inn-keeper, who ordered them to bring 
him in, and gave direction to bring victuals and 

drink 



[ *5 ] 

drink with as much glee, as if the old man had ar- 
rived in a coach and fix. The planter was pleafed 
at his humanity, as he thought it, but was furprized 
at his frequently thanking the poor creature for com- 
ing to break into his ilore, and charged him always 
to come when he wanted victuals, and if the people 
were a fleep to break the pantry or the ilore. — 
** You feem furprized, Sir, fays he to the planter, 
but I will difappoint the fcoundrel." — " What 
fcoundrel ?" — " This poor fellow's mailer, Sir. I 
have known this negroe lixteen years, v/hen he was 
worth any fix negroes his matter had; faithful, dili- 
gent, and ikilful ; but now he is worn down by age, 
and is grown filly, the fcoundrel drives him away, 
in hopes that he will break into fome houfe to ileal, 
and be apprehended, when he will become the pro- 
fecutor, and claim by the law of the ifland forty 
pounds. But I will circumvent the rafcal." And then 
he laid the ftric^eil injunction on his houfe-keeper, 
and fervants, always to encourage the old man to 
come there for food. Now I am fpeaking of cruelty 
exercifed on an old man, what will be thought of 
a chief juftice of the ifland, whom I knew well ? 
This man having heard that a favourite negroe man, 
in the vigour of his life, belonging to himfelf, was 
convicted and condemned to be hanged, fent off the 
fellow, under pretence of having him executed on 
the property he belonged to, in terrorem, to the 
other negroes, to a diitant eilate, and had a fuper- 
annuated old watchman, pail labour, hanged up in 
the flead of the criminal. It feems that the old 
man's name was Mingo ; and the only punifhment 
the mailer underwent was that of being denomi- 
nated in the party writings of that time, which 
were violent, Old Mingo. 

By 



[ 26 ] 

" By Claufe 9th, the penalty on perfons mutilating 
" or difmembering their Haves is increafed, by ad- 
*' ding to the fine of iool. inflicted by former laws, 
" the punifhment of imprifonment, not exceed- 
<J ing twelve months ; and, in certain cafes, mu- 
" tilated Haves are to be declared free : — and in all 
" fuch cafes the Court is authorized to direct, that 
" the fine of iool. be paid over to the juftices and 
" veftry of the parifh, who, in confideration there- 
*' of, are to allow to fuch flave declared free, ten 
(C pounds per annum for maintenance and fupport, 
et during life. By the fame claufe the juftices and 
" veftry are appointed a council of protection, for 
e< the purpofes of making full inquiry into the 
" mutilation of flaves, and for profecuting to effect 
" fuch owner or owners as may have been guilty 
«* thereof. And by Claufe 10th it is enacted, That 
** in cafe any information is made before any juftice 
** of the peace, that any flave or flaves is or are 
** mutilated and confined, it fhall and may be law-* 
" ful for fuch juftice of the peace, and he is re- 
" quired, to iffue his warrant to the marfhal or 
" conftable, to bring the flave or flaves before him 
" for infpedion. By this regulation the power of 
" concealment is endeavoured to be taken from the 
" owner 5 for, as it is not required that the in* 
u formation mould be on oath, the magiftrate is 
" enabled to obtain a view of the fact, on evidence 
" which, in other cafes, is, and ought to be, in-* 
^ admin r ible. , • 

The whole matter of thefe claufes, like that of 
the preceding one, is moft excellent, and will be 
attended with the moft falutary confequences ; for 
by the words any information, certainly the infor- 
mation 



I 27 ] 

mation from a negroe mould authorize the ma^ 
giftrate to iffue his warrant, and the knowledge of 
this will be the means of preventing cruelty, or 
pf detecting it, — The application of the fine, li- 
berating the negroe, and appointing the juftices 
and veftry a Council of protection, are all fraught 
with wifdom and juftice, and mew that the ArTem- 
bly is in earnest to put a ftop to cruelty. Indeed their 
conduct, that is, of a majority of them, reflecting 
the bill, is highly praife- worthy ; but one cannot help 
regretting, that this law, or fomething like it, had 
not been parted long fince. We became poffefTed of 
the ifland of Jamaica, I think, in A. D. 1655, and 
in 1 78 1, nay, in 1788, that is 133 years after, we 
are beginning to make laws, for the flrft time effec- 
tual laws, for the protection of the lives and limbs 
of our negroes ! What bloody entries have been 
made in the indelible records of heaven in that 
period ? 

" By Claufe nth, it is enacted, That if any 
" perfon fhall murder any Have, whether his own 
" property or not, he mail fufFer death for fuch 
* s offence." 

tc And, in order mqre effectually to prevent the 
*' deftruction of negroes, by exceffive labour and 
" unreafonable punifhments, the furgeon of every 
" plantation, by a fubfequent claufe, is required to 
" give in, on oath, to the juftices and veftry, an 
" annual account of the decreafe and increafe of 
" the flaves pf fuch plantation, with the caufes of 
" fuch decreafe, to the beft of his knowledge, 
" judgment, and belief. — On this head the Com- 
f* mittee cannot but remark, how tender and cau- 

f € tious 



[ 28 ] 

" tious every rational manager mull neceffarily be, 
" in the punifhments which he adminiflers, who 
" considers that he has a refident infpector into his 
" conduct; and that the punifhment of death may 
*' follow an abufe of his authority." 

Here again rifes the fpirit of deception, and holds 
up thefe two fpecious, but fallacious claufes, to the 
eyes of the people of England at large, who will 
not, one in an hundred of them, know that by the 
common law, benefit of clergy is allowed, in all 
cafes where it is not exprefsly barred byftatute; and 
here we fee that the flatute does not bar it, there- 
fore the murder of negroes flood after thefe acts, viz. 
acts of 1781 and 1787, juft as it did before, that is 
to fay, it was manflaughter, and the punifhment, 
touching the hand with a warm iron. This being 
the cafe, and the Committee knowing it to be the 
cafe when they formed their report, how could they 
hold up to the publick fo palpable a deception, 
which they could not but know every man in the lead 
verfed in legal difquifitions, would fee through ? — » 
But the formal and feemingly grave remark that 
concludes the laft cited claufe, is intolerable. Be- 
yond a doubt, whatever corrupts the heart, darkens 
the understanding; or how elfe could men of flrong 
abilities fuppofe, that fo palpable a fraud would 
pafs undetected, and unexpofed ? 



ec 



a 



" Neither does the law extend its protection to 
the induftrious and faithful negroe only ; provi- 
fion is made for the fupport of fuch fugitives and 
criminals as are apprehended and lodged in the 
gaols and work-houfes of this ifland ; the daily 
allowance of good and wholefome food, required 

" by 



a 



[ 29 ] 

by Claufe 31ft to be given to every flave in con- 
** finement, being abundantly liberal, and, as we 
" conceive, unexampled in moll other countries, to 
" unhappy perfons in fimilar circumftances. 5> 

This is a wife and meritorious claufe. However, 
it hath not all the merit that would be attributed to 
it by people in England for the following reafons. 
Until the palling of the Have law, of the prefent 
ferlion, there was no provilion made by law for gaol 
deliveries of negroes, in confequence of which, 
negroes committed for pretended offences, have 
been fufFered to remain in gaol for life, without any 
crime proved, without ever being brought to trial 
at all, and probably without any offence having been 
committed. A man at enmity with his neighbour, 
fees that a particular negroe is of the utmolt. confe- 
quence to his mailer, who, by means of that 
negroe, enjoys fome advantage over his neighbours; 
perhaps he is an excellent fugar- boiler, a good dif- 
tiller, cooper, mafon, fmith, or carpenter; he may 
underftand the breaking of horfes, cattle, &c. — or 
he rides race-horfes, is a good coachman, butler, — or 
fome how or other, he is the caufe of envy to fome 
perfon. That man's ox is killed, and he by re- 
wards, or the fear of punilhment, induces one of 
his negroes to inform that the envied negroe has 
killed it. He is thereupon committed to gaol, 
where, no longer exciting envy, he is forgotten, his 
mailer dies, or goes off the illand, and the negroe 
remains for years in prifon. Now, in this view, is 
there any thing above negative merit, in that legi- 
flature, which omitting to provide for fpeedy trials, 
and regular gaol deliveries, does not flarve the 
neglected prifoners to death ? Certainly not : but 

fome 



i Pi 

fome may fuppofe that no fuch cafes happen — I 
aver they do t I was prefent this feffion, when, 
amongit. other demands brought againft the publick 
by the gaoler of Kingfton, two were read and re- 
ferred to a committee; one for the maintenance of 
a negroe, who had died in gaol, after having laid 
there fix years, without having been brought to 
trial 5 the other, for the maintenance of another 
negroe, now living, and in gaol, who has been 
there feven years, without any trial. — The new 
law has provided for gaol deliveries, at lean: every 
three months. Refpe&ing negroes committed, or 
more properly fent, to the work-houfe, it muft be 
obferved, that whoever pleafes may fend his own 
negroes to the work-houfe, without affigning any 
reafon whatever, and order them to be punifhed; 
and is there then much humanity in not ftarving to 
death thofe who are arbitrarily fent to the work- 
houfes, which here are houfes of correction, and 
who are puniihed not only without trial, but often 
without crime, and merely at the fuggeflion of 
paffion or caprice ? 

*■' Having thus briefly flated the protection which 
" the laws of this ifland have provided for our flaves, 
" in the grand circumftance of perfonal fafety; we 
i£ now proceed to the Jecond head, namely, to prove, 
u that the Jlave-Iaws in this ijland are executed with 
* e humanity, mildnefs, and mercy.'' By the flave-laws 
*' here alluded to, we understand the laws, and 
" claufes of laws, which affign penalties and pu- 
" nifhments on fuch offences and tranfgreffions of 
** our flaves as affect the publick : and, in order to 
" obtain the fulleft information on this head, we 
" have called on the feveral clerks of the peace o£ 

" the 



[ 3' ) 

(t the different precincts and parifhes, for returns 
" of all trials of Haves, with the charges, convic- 
" tion, and punifhment feverally had thereon, for 
t( feveral years laft part, viz. From the ift of Ja- 
" nuary 1784, to the 30th of September 1788 : 
" From thefe returns we are enabled to flate the 
" following circumftances : — 

" In the parimes and precinct of St. Catherine, 
" St. John, St. Dorothy, and St. Thomas in the 
<( Vale, containing 21,772 flaves, the number of 
*.* capital convictions and executions were four 
" only, in the faid interval : 

" In the parifh of St. Andrew, containing 9,613 
" flaves, we find only one execution, in the faid 
" interval : 

" In the parimes and precinct of St. Thomas in 
" theEaft, and St. David, containing 23,373 ^ aves > 
" the number of capital convictions and executions 
" were ten, in the faid interval : 

" In the pari/hes and precinct of St. Mary and 
" St. George, containing 22,194 flaves, the num- 
" ber of capital convictions and executions were 
" four, in the faid interval : 

" In the parifh of St. Ann, containing 13,324 
*' flaves, the number of capital convictions and 
** executions were two, in the faid interval : 

*' In the parifh of Trelawny, containing 19,318 
" flaves, the number of capital convictions and 
cc executions were feven, in the faid interval : 

" In 



[ 32 3 

" In the parifh of St. James, containing 18,546 
** flaves, the number of capital convictions and exe- 
te cutions were three, in the faid interval : 

** In the parifh of Hanover, containing 17,612 
" flaves, the number of capital convictions and 
" executions were two, in the faid interval : 

" In the parifh of Weftmoreland, containing 
<e 16,700 flaves, the number of capital convictions 
" and executions were four, in the faid interval : 

" In the parifh of St. Elizabeth, containing 
" 13,280 flaves, the number of capital convictions 
" and executions were eight, in the faid interval : 

" In the parifhes and precinct of Clarendon and 
" Vere, containing 22,234 flaves, the number of 
" capital convictions and executions were feven, in 
" the faid interval : 

" In the feveral towns and parifhes of Kingfton, 
" Port-Royal, and Portland, containing 12,928 
" flaves, there do not appear to be any capital con- 
" vidions within the faid period ; but the records 
" of trials in the town of Kingfton, previous to 
" 1787, are not to be found." 

i( The total appears to be, 52 executions in four 
*' years and nine months, which is not more than 
<e 11 per annum for the laft five years, out of 
" 210,894 flaves : — a proof of lenity in the exe- 
" cution of our criminal laws, not to be furpaffed, 
" as we conceive, by any nation in Europe. No- 
** thing further, therefore, feems neceffary to be 

" added 



t 33 3 

e< added on this head, except the 40th Claufe of 
(i the prefent Confolidated Slave-Bill, which directs, 
" that in all cafes where the punifhment of death 
" is inflicted, the execution fhall be performed in a 
<c publick part of the parifh, and with due folem- 
" nity; and care mail be taken by the gaoler or 
" deputy- marfhal, that the criminal is free from 
*' intoxication at the time of his trial, and from 
** thence to, and at, the time of his execution, 
" under the penalty of five pounds : and the mode 
te of fuch execution is directed to be, hanging by 
<c the neck, and no other : It is likewife provided, 
if that where feveral Haves are capitally convicted 
" for the fame offence, one only fhall fuffer death, 
" except in cafes of murder or rebellion." 

On this part of the Report I mail be compelled 
to renew the charges of fuppreffion of evidence. 
To prove that the laws of the ifland afford protec- 
tion to flaves on the grand article of perfonal fafety* 
the Committee ought to have fhewn not only that 
the law had affigned adequate penalties and punifh- 
ments on white people who abufed, maimed, or 
difmembered flaves, but alfo that thofe provifions of 
the law had been faithfully exerted for the protec- 
tion and perfonal fafety of flaves ; neither of which 
they have done : for, in the firft, cafe, the higheft 
punifhment affigned by the laws, at the time the 
Report was made, for the mofi deliberate and bar- 
barous murder of a (lave, was applying an iron to 
the palm of the murderer's hand, which might be 
warm or cold, according to the bribe given to the 
executioner; and this being the extremeft punifh- 
ment for aggravated murder, the puniihment for 
inferior degrees of cruelty could not be much. I 

C repeat^ 



[ 34 1 

repeat, that for difmemberment of flaves, I know 
but of one man punifhed, and that fince the peo- 
ple of Britain have interefted themfelves on behalf 
of flaves ; whereas I know many inftances of dif- 
memberments. I have already hinted at men now 
living, who have not only difmembered but mur- 
dered fcores of negroes, and yet have never been 
called to any account." — On this head, let one inflance 
fuffice, which inflance was known to the Commit- 
tee : A Jew determined to whip one of his negroes 
to death, and avowed that determination ; he began 
the lingering murder with his own hands, and 
whipped until his ftrength was exhaufled, and then 
put the whip into other hands fuccemvely, and 
urged them on until the tragedy was compleated in 
his own prefence, and by his own order: all which 
was proved on his trial, of all which he was found 
guilty, convicted, and fentenced ; What ? — Im- 
prifonment for life ? No : — For feven years ? No : — 
He was fined in all he had ? No : — In what ? FIVE 
POUNDS ! — with this mockery of God and juftice, 
to give it an air of feverity, that he mould be im- 
prisoned until he paid the fine, which he did in- 
ftantly, and went out laughing. All this, I fay, 
was known to the Committee at the very time the 
affertion of the protection afforded to the flaves in 
the grand circumftance of perfonal fafety was made. 
I deny, that the (lave laws have been executed with 
humanity, mildnefs, and mercy ; and I aver, that 
the Committee, at the time they framed this de- 
ceptive report, had before them the mofl authen- 
tick proofs of abominable cruelty in the execu- 
tion of thofe very laws : they acknowledge that 
*' they had callen on the fever al clerks of the peace 
" of the different parimes, for returns of all 

" trials 



[ 35 1 

e * trials of Haves, with the charges, Convictions, 
" and Punishments feverally had thereon," &c. 
Now, how comes it, that inftead of All trials, 
Convictions, and Punishments had thereon, 
the Committee have chofe to report the convictions 
of capital offences only ? The reafon was this, the 
capital convictions were comparatively few in num- 
ber (which, by the way, fhews the wickednefs of 
thofe writers who endeavour to reprefent the ne- 
groes as vindictive and irafcible in the extreme) 
whereas the difmemberments and other violent 
punifhments were fo numerous that they would 
not bear infpection, with any hope of imprefling 
Britons with the idea which was intended to be 
given, that the laws were adminiftered with hu- 
manity, mildnefs, and mercy. This was the real 
reafon of reporting on the capital offences only* 

Parifhes and Precinct of St. Thomas and St, 
David. — " The number of capital convictions and 
" executions were ten." This parifh, neverthe- 
lefs, was infamous for difmemberment. 

" Parifh of St. Ann's. — Capital convictions and 
" executions two." In this parifh, neverthelefs, 
there are two men alive at this hour, whofe neigh- 
bours fay pofitively, and every one believes, have 
each of them murdered fcores of their own ne- 
groes, of which murders no inquiiition or inquiry 
of any kind has been made. 

" Parifh of St. James. — Capital convictions and 

" executions three." In this parifh one — , 

deftroyed in lefs than three years by cruelty and 
abfolute murder 136 of his own negroes, of which 

C 2 murders 



t 36 ] 

murders no inqueft hath been made or taken -, and 
yet the Committee fay that the flaves are under 
the protection of the laws with regard to perfonal 
fafety. 

" In the parifhes of Port-Royal, Portland, and 
" Kingfton, there do not appear to have been 
" any capital convictions." How mould, they 
appear, when the records by which only they could 
be fhewn by the clerks of the peace, were not pro- 
duced ? Had thofe records contained matter fa- 
vourable to the object of the Committee, they 
would probably have been found, or rather, they 
would not have been loft. 

'•* The total appears to be 52 executions, in four 
" years and nine months." Thefe are the execu- 
tions by fentence of the law •, had the numbers of 
private murders been added, there would not have 
been room to mention lenity. 

*£ On the third ground of inquiry, we are to 
demon ft rate, " That the laws have made pro- 
vifon to grant jlaves days of reft, and to prevent 
their being in want of the necejfaries of life." — 
Although we conceive that this afTertion has 
been fufficiently eftablimed, by the recital al- 
ready given of fuch claufes of our laws as relate 
to the fubliftence of our flaves -, yet, as the 
words, " fufficient time," in one of the claufes 
referred to, left a difcretionary power in the 
mafter, we fhall take occafion, in a fubfequent 
part of our report, to fhew that the legiflature 
has provided a remedy againft any poftible abufe 
of fuch difcretionary authority : But the fur- 

" ther 



t 37 ] 

c < ther difcuffion of this fubjedt is deferred, until 
" we treat of the new flave-bill, palfed the prefent 
" feffion." 

This article has been obferved on before, and 
although it is there fhewn that the provifion, as it 
is termed, made by the law, had not had, nor could 
be expe&ed to have any operation, yet the com- 
mittee wi£h it to be fuppofed, that the laws amply 
provided for the purpofes here mentioned; yet by 
referring to the new bill, the committee indirectly 
acknowledge the inefficacy of the old laws. 

" On the fourth and lafl ground of our re- 
4 * fearches, namely, to demonftrate, " That the 
decreafi of our Jlaves does not arifefrom the caufes 
qffigned in the petitions prefented to the Britifh 
Houfe of Commons, but Jrom other caufes not im- 
putable to us, and which the people of Great Bri- 
tain do not feem to comprehend-," the Committee, 
after diligent inquiry and inveftigation, are of 
opinion, that the following are the principal 
caufes to which the alleged decreafe of our 
flaves ought juftly to be imputed : \ft, The dif- 
proportion between the fexes, in the annual im- 
portations from Africa : 2d, The lofs oj new ne- 
groes, on orfoon after their arrival, from epidemic 
difeafes brought from Africa, or contracted in the 
voyage" 



(t Does not arife from the caufes afTigned," not 
folely 3 but certainly in a very great degree. 

" Not imputable to us," this affertion is fo far 
juft as it refers to the numbers which periiried by 

C 3 famine 



t 38 ] 

famine for want of the ports being open, and the 
difproportion between the fexes which is very 
great, and the difeafes contracted in the voyage; 
but certainly a great proportion of the decreafe 
arifes from caufes juftly imputable. 

It appears from" the Report that 31,181 negroes 
have perifhed between the report of the mips and 
the days of fales j now, if we allow on an average, 
fifteen days between the days of reports and the 
days of the fales, and if we allow the pafiages from 
Guinea to the iflands on an average to be four times 
as long, that is fixty days, and count the mortality 
on board during all the horrible circumftances of the 
paffage, to be only in like proportion as to number of 
deaths, and add thofe numbers to 31,181, the 
number that perifhed in port, we (hall have the 1 
whole number of lives loft by crowding, I may fay, 
cramming, thofe wretches by hundreds into mips 
which are not fufficient to hold properly half the 
numbers that have been put into them. 
Died after their arrivals, — — 31,181 
On the paffages, — -— — 1,24,724 

M5>9°5 

One hundred and fifty- five thoufand nine hun- 
dred and five negroes perifhed of thofe that have 
been embarked for Jamaica, fay in port and in 
paffages. Farther, let us fuppofe, that for all the 
windward and leeward iflands belonging to Great 
Britain put together, a number of negroes have 
been embarked equal to thofe embarked for Jam- 
aica, and that to the French, Spanifh, Dutch, and 
Danifh iflands and colonies altogether, as many 

as 



[ 39 ] 

as to the British; and that the mortality has 
been proportionate to the number, then the ac- 
count of the lofs of lives will ftand thus : — 

Loft of thofe embarked for Jamaica, - 1 55905 
Ditto, and leeward iflands, - - 155905 

Ditto, foreign colonies, - - «• 311810 

623620 

Six hundred and twenty-three thoufand fix hun- 
dred and twenty ! a number at which humanity is 
petrified with horror. After mature confidera- 
tion I do folemnly believe the real number to be 
much nearer the double of this. 

The Maroon negroes mould not be added to the 
number of negroes now alive in the ifiand, in cal- 
culating the quantum of increafe of Haves ; for 
thefe people are not the progeny of negroes im- 
ported by the Britilh, they are the defcendants of 
the Spaniards when the ifiand was conquered by 
Penn and Venables, who fled to the mountains 
and defended their liberty. It is true they have 
many concubines in the plantations in the low- 
lands, from which connexions no doubt children 
have fprung, but as the child follows the condition 
of the mother, and becomes the flave of the owner 
of the mother, it is evident thefe children rather in- 
cline the balance the other way. 

I think the number of free people of colour efti- 
rnated at io 3 ooo, is taken much too high. 

C 4 The 



[ 40 ] 

The time of four months allowed after the ftorms 
of 1780 and 178 1, for the importation of provifions 
in foreign bottoms, was in reality not more than 
two months ; for, as it was from the States on the 
continent only that we could expect any quantities 
of fupplies, if we allow one month for the pro- 
clamation to reach them, and one month for the 
pafTage of the mips, there was not fo much as 
two months for the American merchants to fpe- 
culate in and collect cargoes of provifions : for un- 
doubtedly towards the latter end of the third month 
of the proclamation, that is, the fecond of its pro- 
mulgation in the ftates, they would begin to be 
fearful of their fleps in cafe of contrary winds, or 
other detention arifing after the time limited by the 
proclamation, and of their being feized. For to add 
to the calamities of the ifland, the revenue officers 
that were about that time fent out from Britain, 
feemed to be compofed of pettyfogging attornies, 
or of fuch as had been inftructed by them, how 
to conftrue the letter of the laws diametrically op- 
pofite to the fpirit thereof s fo that foreigners were 
terrified from coming into our ports. As to the 
prolongation for one month, it could hardly anfwer 
any good purpofe, becaufe by the time that fo- 
reigners could receive notice of it, the term of the 
prolongation would be expired, or expiring, and 
no time left to bring in this affiftance. No man 
all the while blamed the Lieutenant Governor, be- 
caufe they knew that his hands were tied down by- 
orders from home. 

The conftitutions of the negroes had been fo 
debilitated and broken down by the former want 
of wholefome provifions, that they had not ftrength 

to 



[ 41 ] 

to fupport themfelves under the return of famine, 
and dropped off in numbers. 

Horrible indeed was the tragedy after the fifth 
hurricane in 1786 ; and fo far have the Committee 
been from exaggerating the calamities of the ifland, 
by ftating the lofs at 15000 of lives, that I am 
convinced from much inquiry, that they have 
ftated them too low by feveral thoufands. I cannot 
be fuppofed. to be influenced by refentment from 
my own loffes on this occaiion, for thanks be to 
the God of mercy, I forefaw and was enabled to 
provide againfl the feveral droughts and confequent 
famines, fo that I did not lofe the life of a finglc 
negro, by the want of wholefome provifions : on 
the contrary, they were more healthy and vigorous 
than at any other time, fo at leaft other people faidj 
but I accounted for it from their comparing them 
with the poor emaciated famine-worn creatures 
they faw on other plantations, and the contraft 
was fo finking, as could not but claim their at- 
tention. This brought about inquiries into my 
management of my negroes in regard to feeding 
them 1 and I have the comfort to be allured, that 
belide preferving my own negroes, I was the means 
of fome thoufands more being preferved, 

Befide the enormous numbers that perimed out- 
right during the famine, and which from much 
inquiry and various relations, I am fully perfuaded 
exceeded 21,000, I do firmly believe that a far 
greater number were fo debilitated and broken 
down in their confutations, that they gradually 
pined and lingered away ; but as they died not 
during the immediate fcarcity, their death was at- 
tributed 



I 4* 1 

tributed to fluxes, dropfies, &c. without confider- 
ing that thofe difeafes were confequences of the 
debility induced by the preceding famine. Now, 
were the whole number of lives loft during the 
time of actual fcarcity, added to the far greater 
numbers who fell by its flow effects after the 
fcarcity was over, though as really deftroyed by 
the famine as thofe who fell during its rage, the 
fum would be horrible. But when we confider that 
had the latter hurricane occurred a few days, ten 
days fooner, an immenfe quantity of the great 
corn, the bulk of which was but juft got in 
when the ftorm commenced, and was the only 
fpecies of provifion of confequence then in the 
ifland ; I fay, that had that hurricane occurred ten 
days or a fortnight fooner, that would have, great 
part of it, been deftroyed : the certain confequences 
of which would have been univerfal famine, for 
every inferior fpecies of provifion had been before 
exhaufted. The ifland muft inevitably have been 
depopulated, Unthinking minds fay, that the de- 
struction that did occur, and the general deftruc- 
tion which by divine mercy we barely efcaped, 
had it alfo come upon us, were the efFe&s of 
thofe tempefts and droughts and famines, and the 
inevitable works of God : the tempefts, droughts, 
and confequent famines were fo no doubt, and 
wrought for wife, good, and ultimately gracious 
purpofes ; but if the deftruction of fo many poor 
flaves are to be attributed to Providence, it muft 
not be to its operations on the elements, fo much 
as by the blindnefs which was fufFered to come 
over the understandings of thofe in the charge of 
government, to fuch a degree as to tie down the 
Governor of a colony a,t the diftance of 5000 miles, 

fo 



[ « ] 

£o as that not only the property and happinefs of 
that colony, but even its exiftence mould be haz- 
arded, rather than that he mould depart from the 
regulations made in Britain. What will pofterity 
think of fuch monftrous abufe of the powers en- 
trusted in the hands of government for the benefit, 
protection, and general good of thofe who gave 
thofe powers into their hands ? Nay, what will 
they think of a people who would fubmit to fee 
daily facrifices to the fpirit of obltinacy, which 
a few men on the other fide of the globe called 
wifdom ? There was an eafy remedy for thofe 
terrible evils, and which, if it had been time- 
oufly applied, would have faved the lives of (in my 
opinion) more than 30,000 people ; but we muft 
believe that the fpirit of blindnefs had Stricken the 
minds of the people alfo, as well as thofe of their 
princes and rulers. 

The Committee State two principal caufes in ad- 
dition to thofe mentioned before of the decreafe of 
the negroes. lit, The great proportion of deaths 
that happen among the negroes newly imported - t 
and, 2d, the lofs amongft the negro infants. 

With refpect to the firft, great part of thofe 
deaths are the effects of the fame caufes which oc- 
cafion fo many deaths during the paSTage from 
Africa, and in the ports of the iflands where they 
arrive, and before they are landed ; thefe are per- 
turbation of mind, foul and putrid air, water, and 
provifions, forrow for what they have left, and 
dread of what they are going to. 

For 



[ 44 3 

For obfervations on the fecond, fee the notes on 
the examinations of Meffrs. Chimolme, Anderfon, 
and Quier, annexed to the Report. 

I have no doubt, but that the regulations made 
by the Britifh Act of Parliament, in retraining 
and proportioning the number of negroes to be 
taken on board to the tonnage of the mips, efpecially 
if farther regulations mould be added, respecting 
the time beyond which fhips mail not remain on 
the coaft of Africa, quantity of water, 6cc. will be 
the means not only of preferving the lives of thou- 
fands on the paffage, but of many more, by pre- 
venting the infectious putrid diforders, which con- 
taminate the blood of thofe who do not immedi- 
ately link under it, 

" The offender will have the fecurity, both of 
et a grand and petit jury." 

This was ftruck out of the bill by the Council, 
and as the law now ftands, there is no grand jury, 
and the petit jury confifts but of nine. The affem- 
bly were obliged to concur; as they found after a 
conference of the two Houfes, which lafted two 
days, the bill would be loft if they did not ac- 
quiefce in the alteration ; nor indeed would it have 
paffed at all, but for the alarm that was caught on 
the arrival, I may fay the providential arrival, of a 
packet from Britain, which brought no difpatches 
but for the governor, and naval commanders in 
chief, and the Governor's declarations that the faid 
packet was fent out by government exprefsly on 
the negroe bufinefs. This alarmed the Council, 
and fuch of the Houfe of Affembly as had oppofed 

the 



< 



[ 45 ] 

the moft beneficial regulations in the bill. Which 
bill, as now paired into a law, after all the alter- 
ations by the council, ftill is an immenfe meliora- 
tion of the fituation of the negroes, if faithfully- 
executed, amongft which this article is the firfl ; 
that of providing gaol deliveries every three months 
at leaft, by PUBLICK TRIALS, not by dark and 
packed juntos in a corner ; by the Juftices being 
compelled to grant warrants on any information to 
bring before them negroes difmembered, mutilated, 
or cruelly treated — this laft is, I believe, not in the 
bill exprefsly, but I hope Juftices will think it 
implied;— by appointing councils of protection for 
the abufed Have, without which an attempt to ob- 
tain redrefs would have been deemed an unpardon- 
able crime, and punifhed with ftill greater cruelty; 

by the providing provifion for, and in fome cafes 
declaring them free ; — by obliging the proprietors 
of flaves or other representatives to give in on oath, 
accounts annually of the increafe or decreafe of 
their flaves, and the refpective Doctors who attend 
the plantations, to certify on oath the caufe of the 
deaths ; — by giving in like manner accounts of the 
quantity of cloathi ng fupplied the negroes, and the 
quantity of ground cultivated in provilions, and 
the time allowed the ilaves to cultivate their own 
grounds : all thefe are capital regulations, and if 
faithfully adhered to, will be attended with the 
happier! effects. Good laws Can do much, but it 
is from the manners of a people that they mull 
derive their befc effects. 

" Neither courts of quarter feffion nor juftices, 
" mall have power to order any flave to be muti- 
" lated or maimed for any offence whatever." 

What 



[ 4« ] 

What muft have been the practice that made it 
requifite to reftrain courts and magiftrates from 
maiming and mutilating ? 

The claufe refpedting the converfion and bap- 
tifm of flaves is dull for the eyes of the people in 
Britain. It puts me in mind of a circumftance 
that occurred on board a coafting veffel, which 
was blown off the coafl, the mailer and mate of 
which were totally ignorant of the methods of 
keeping an account of the (hip's way in the ocean, 
and of afcertaining her place and fituation to the land j 
which the feamen obferving were greatly alarmed 
at. H I wifli," faid the matter to the mate, " our 
" poor wives knew where we are :" — '* I wifh," 
faid one of the feamen, " we knew ourfelves where 
*' we are." I apprehend there is fomething re- 
quifite previous to mafters, mtfirejfes, and overfeers 
endeavouring to inftruct their negroes in the prin- 
ciples of the Chrijliari religion. 

" Another very important object of this bill is 
* c the correction of two material errors which had 
•* been accidentally made in the confolidated flave- 
** bill of laft year : The words, ** without benefit 
** of clergy," in the claufe which affigns the pu- 
4t nifhment of death to perfons wantonly killing 
" a negro or other flave, having been undeiign- 
»' edly omitted — thefe are now reftored: — And 
*' another claufe in the faid confolidated flave-bill, 
which inflicted punifhments on perfons wanton- 
ly and cruelly beating flaves, and imprifoning 
them without fufficient fupport, having been 
interpreted not to extend to fuch flaves as were 

" the 



« 



tt 



t 47 1 

u the property of the offender, has been amended, 
" and the protection which it affords is now ex- 
*' tended to all flaves, without diftin&ion." 

How does this comport with the grave obfer- 
vations and cautions cited in pages, 6, 7 and 8. 



€( 



" Further, in the view of retraining arbi- 
tary punimments, it is, by the faid bill, enact- 
" ed, That no Have on any plantation or fettle- 
" ment, or in any of the workhoufes or gaols in 
" this ifland, mail receive more than ten lames at 
" a time, and for one offence, unlefs the owner, 
*' attorney, guardian, executor, adminiftrator, or 
" overfeer of fuch plantation or fettlement, or fu- 
* e pervifor of fuch workhoufe, or keeper of fuch 
" gaol, fhall be prefent ; and no fuch owner, at- 
*' torney, guardian, executor, administrator, or 
" overfeer, fupervifor, or gaol-keeper, fhall, on 
" any account, puriifh a Have with more than 
" thirty-nine lames, \at one time, and for one of- 
" fence, under the penalty of five pounds for 
" each offence, to be recovered againft the perfon 
" directing or permitting fuch punilhment. 

I do not like the manner in which this claufe is 
expreffed, I fear it will be greatly abufed, " at one 
" time and for one offence," I think it mould 
have been, for one offence : as it now ftands, I ap- 
prehend the number of lames limited by the law 
will not prevent the repetition of the fame number 
of lames, the day after the iirft whipping is in" 
flicted, and fo de die in diem, to the extent of the 
rage and cruelty of the perfon who directs the pu- 
nifhment, 

•' Another 



• 



[ 48 ] 

" Another object of this bill (as hath been al- 
' ready obferved) is to fee u re to our Haves days 

* of reft, and fufficient time to cultivate their 
' grounds, in order to prevent their being in want 
6 of the neceflaries of life : For which purpofe, 
e after reciting, that although it hath been cuf- 
' tomary with the planters in this ifland to allow 
' their flaves one day in every fortnight (exclu- 

* live of Sundays) ; yet this indulgence not being 
' compulfory, it is enacted by the faid bill, 
' that the flaves belonging to, or employed on, 
e every plantation or fettlement, mall, over and 
' above the ufual holidays allowed them at 
f Chriftmas, Eafter, and Whitfuntide, be allow- 

* ed one day in every fortnight, to cultivate their 
' own provilion-grounds (exclufive of Sundays), 
' except during the time of crop, under the pe- 
' nalty of ten pounds, to be recovered againft the 
e overfeer, or other perfon having the care of fuch 
' flaves. " 

With comparatively very few indeed was it cuf- 
tomary, and what follows, " yet not being com- 
" pulfory," proves what I have aflerted in a former 
note. 

" Laftly, with intention to prevent, as far as 
" poffible, the great mortality which has been 
" ftated to prevail among the new-born negro in- 
" fants, it is alfo enacted, That, in cafe it mail 
" appear to the fatisfadtion of the juftices and 
" veftry of each parifh, from the returns re- 
" quired to be made annually, there has been a 
" natural increafe in the number of flaves on any 
*' fuch plantation, pen, or other fettlement, the 
'* overfeer iliall be entitled to receive from the 

<c owner 



[ 49 ] 

" owner or proprietor of fuch plantation, pen, or 
" other fettlement, the fum of twenty {hillings 
" for every flave born on fuch plantation, pen, or 
<€ other fettlement, and which mall be then living, 
" at the time of giving in fuch annual returns ; 
* ( and the owner or proprietor of fuch plantation, 
" pen, or other fettlement, mail have a deduction, 
" from the firft of his or her publick taxes that 
" mall become due, of the fum fo paid to the 
" overfeer, on producing a certificate of the jufti- 
" ces and veftry of fuch increafe, and a receipt 
*' of the overfeer for the fum fo paid." 

This is a wife regulation, and more good may 
be expected from it than what would arife from the 
pecuniary reward. It will, I hope, and believe, be 
the means of introducing a laudable ambition 
amongft the overfeers to take care of the negroes ; 
and indeed I think that from the infamy that will 
in a little time ftigmatize fuch neglect, or at 
lean: abufe, of them, much may be expected - y but 
frill more might be reafonably expected were the 
flave trade totally abolifhed now, or after the im- 
portation of more females. 

The Committee proceed to fay, that <e the mea- 
" fure of abolifhing the African flave trade muil 
" ruin the fugar iflands/' 

I know a plantation in St. Ann's, which in 17 
years hath by procreation, and without purchafe, 
doubled its number of negroes, and two over. I 
know an inftance where a deed of gift was made 
of eight negroes in. the year 1744, of the pro- 
geny of which eight negroes^ there are now in 

D 1788, 



I so 3 

1788, above fixty-four, that is juft octuple, the 
original flock in forty-four years. The negroes 
on my own plantation, which within the laft 
feven years has had its labour nearly doubled, 
by having many maffy buildings to erect, and 
almofr, the whole grounds to fence by ftone 
walls, and many other extraordinary things to do, 
keep up their numbers, and increafe, notwithstand- 
ing the peculiar difadvantages arifmg from thofe 
circumftances, from the repeated hurricanes and 
their confequences in that period, and above all, 
notwithstanding that there is a great difproportion 
of the females to the males, of which former we at 
this time are deficient forty-three. Had I attended 
to the circumftance of proportioning the fexes 
when I firft came into porTeffion of the eftate, I am 
convinced that by this time it would have over- 
flowed with negroes, as would every plantation 
where the number of the fexes are duly propor- 
tioned, and humanity is exercifed. This being 
my decided opinion, I am under no felfifh appre- 
henfion from the abolition of the flave trade, nor 
need any one elfe be fo, who will act agreeably to 
& the dictates of confcience and common fenfe. 

Yet it mull be acknowledged, and I acknow- 
ledge it without reluctance, that the difpropor- 
tion between the fexes is the fource of infinite 
mifery. It is the grand caufe of the general profti- 
tution of the negroe women, of difeafe, quarrel, 
bloodfhed, incontinence, and want of population.* 

NOTES 

* It were to be wifhed our Author had been more explicit on this 
interefting point, the difproportion of the fexes. He feems to have 
formed his opinion from the particular fituation of his own eftate, 

rather 



[ Si ] 



NOTES on the examination of James 
Chisholme, Efq. annexed to the Report. 

" During fourteen years he has had the care 
" of four thoufand negroes" — what fort of medical 

care 

rather than upon a general examination into the matter. The evils 
he here mentions arife not from the difproportion of the fexes, but 
from their unequal diflribuiion. There are at this time 480,000 
neo-ro flaves in all the Britifh fugar colonies. The Africans (who 
are imported in the proportion * of three females to five males) 
cannot exceed one -fifth of the whole, or 96,000; for thefe all die 
off in 15 years ; and one-third in the firft three years. But about 
13 years ago, the war put a flop to their importation; fo 
that four-fifths of all purchafed before that time muft be dead, and, 
fince the peace in 1783, only 85,000 have been imported and kept 
in the Britifh iflands, and even of thefe a great part is now dead. 
Among the Creoles or native flaves, who form four-fifths of the 
whole, or 384,000, the proportion of the fexes follows the courfe 
of nature. 

Thus the negro flaves in all the Britifh fugar iflands divide them- 
felves into Females Males 

384-000 Creoles — 192*000 192*000 

96-000 imported Africans (3 to 5) 36*000 60.000 

480*000 Females, 228-000 — Males, 252*000 

or exactly nineteen females to ttventy-one males — a proportion not 
very different from that of the births of the fexes throughout the 
world, viz. of 19 females to 20 males, f 

But the able calculator juft referred to hath amply proved, that 
though the fexes be born in this laft proportion, yet the number of 
females actually living, at any one time, is greater than that of the 
males. % Among many inftances to prove this, he adduces the fol- 
lowing remarkable ones. That temperate and healthy clafs of men, 
the church minifters, and profeffors of the Univerfities in Scotland, 
have a fund for the maintenance of their widows. The annual 

* Jamaica Report. 

•f Price on Rev. pay. p. 16. 

t Id. vol. h p. 3, 81, iz6, 366, 373) and vol. II. p. 3, 145, 245. 

D 2 medium 



r 52 ] 

care one man can give to four thoufand negroes, 
every two hundred of which on an average are on 

plantations 

medium of their weddings is 30, and the annual medium of widows 
who haVe come upon the fund, for 35 years, is 19 and i-ioth. 
Of the 30 annual marriages then 19 and i-ioth are dhTolved by the 
death of hufbands, and not 1 1 by the death of wives ; confequently 
the number of widows actually living is to the number of widowers 
as 19 and i-ioth is to 10 and g-ioths, or nearly double. — In nine 
years ending in 1763, there were living in the whole kingdom of 
Sweden 10 females to 9 males. At Edinburgh, in I743> there 
were found 4 females to 3 males. 

But, what is more to our purpofe, according to Montefquieu 
more girls than boys are born in hot climates.* And the accu- 
rate Kempfer + relates, that at Meaco there were found, by actual 
enumeration, 223.573 females, and only 182*072 males. Thus 
every circumftance confpires to prove that there are more females 
than males living in the world (efpecially in hot climates); and there 
is not the fhadow of areafon to fuppofe that the Creole negroes are an 
exception to what appears to be the general order of procedure. 

In all countries men live more irregularly, and are more liable 
to accidents than women, and every caufe unfavourable to human 
life operates with peculiar force on negro men. They diflipate their 
vigour on a plurality of wives. It is well known that, to vifit 
them (when their wives happen to be removed to a diftance) the 
hufbands make very long nocturnal excurfions; returning to their 
drudgery the next morning, fatigued and difpirited. They 
are more refractory than the women ; they oftener run away, 
and ftay longer out. On the whole they commit more faults, and 
confequently fuffer more inhuman treatment. — Thefe are among 
the caufes which contribute to render the lives of men flaves 
fhorter than thofe of women flaves. The Guinea traders acknow- 
ledge that the men muft be confined in chains, and the Jamaica Re- 
port complain of the diforders arifing from it, which carry off great 
numbers in feafoning. The deaths in feafoning muft be therefore 
principally among the men, and probably leave the fexes of the fea- 
foned Africans nearly in an equal proportion. In the ifland of Nevis, 
female flaves are to the males as five to four. This is an old fettled 
ifland, and confifts chiefly of Creoles. 

The inconveniences and evils therefore, which our author com- 
plains of do not arife from the inequality^ but from the unequal dijlribu- 

* Efp. de Loix, liv. 16. eh, 4; f Id, ibid. 

tion 



[ 53 ] 

plantations remote from each other, and this be- 
fides his practice amongft the white people, let the 
impartial judge. 

" That a great proportion of negro infants perifh 
** between the fifth and fourteenth days after their 
" birth ; he believes nearly one-fourth part of all 
** that are born." 

I believe on moft plantations this may be the 
cafe, but I am confident it will not be fo long: 
for, formidable as thefe medical men may affect to 
reprefent the diforder, the effects of which are fo 
fatal, it is by no means impofiible to prevent it ; 
and I affert this on my own experience, for on my 
plantations this diforder was as frequent as on 
others, until I came to infpect and refide on them 
myfelf, fince which it is become as rare as it was 
common before. 

The account Mr. Chifholme gives of the dif- 
order, in my opinion, points out the cure. If the 
diforder arifes from irritation of the nerves of the 
umbilicus, how eafy to prevent it ? Prevent the 
caufe, and you prevent the effect. 

tion of the fexes. Weft India property is in a ftate of perpetual fluctu- 
ation. When eftates are broken up, thofe who, like our Author, have 
the command of money buy the males (whether Creoles or Africans) 
leaving the females to be purchafed by poorer men. Hence, on 
fome eftates, the males predominate, and on others, the females. 
The total difregard paid in fuch cafes, to the feelings and connec- 
tions of negroes as human creatures, and even as animals, gives 
rife to all the mifery our' Author deplores ; independent of the in- 
equality of the fexes, which we have proved has in reality no 

exiftence. 

Editor. 

D 3 " That 



ec 



6C 



St 



[ 54 ] 

<c That if he is right in his theory, refpecting 
the caufe of this complaint, it will be fuppofed 
that the remedy is obvious, as it will be only 
directing a greater attention to be paid to the 
drerling and cleanlinefs of the infant during the 
period above alluded to: But, fimple as this may 
appear in theory, thofe who are much converfant 
with negroes, will be aware of the difficulty, if 
not impoiTibility, of putting it in practice, in 
a degree fufficient to anfwer the purpofe ; For, 
fuch is the ignorance, obftinacy, and inatten- 
tion of the negroes ; fo little regard have they 
for each other, and fo averfe are they to exe- 
cuting the directions of white people, when re- 
pugnant to their own prejudices, that he believes 
the evil can never be wholly remedied, while 
We are obliged to employ negroes as nurfes." 



Here we fee that the gentleman was perfectly 
aware of what he conceives would prevent this 
destructive diforder ? which he himfelf fays carries off 
nearly one of every four of all the negro children 
born in the ifland. Let the humane, let the ftatef- 
man confider and reflect on. the continual exiftence 
of a caufe' that annually diminishes one-fourth of 
the people. We fee that Mr. Chi/holme attributes 
the caufe of this diforder not being prevented to the 
ignorance, obftinacy, and inattention of negroes. 
Will not the fenlible reader of his anfwers conceive, 
that before we admit the negligence and inatten- 
tion of a mother to her infant to be the caufe of its 
destruction, there would be more juftice and pro- 
bability in confidering that fome part of the caufe 
at leaii arifes from medical men, who, by taking 
charge of fuch numbers of negroes, have not time 



[ 55 1 

to inftruct them, and diffipate that ignorance (the 
caufe of obftinacy) which is attended with fuch 
fatal effects ? 

** That a very great number of newly-imported 
" negroes are loit by difeafes, the predifpoling 
" caufes of which they bring to this country along 
** with them : Mori: new negroes, when rlrit land- 
" ed, are much fubj eel: to putrid complaints, arifing 
".from a fcorbutic habit contracted during the 
"voyage, which frequently manifefts itfelf foon 
" after they are landed, in putrid dyfenteries, or 
** by foul ulcers, tending ftrongly to mortifica- 
" tion. Many negroes, while aboard, are affected 
" with the mod virulent venereal complaints ; 
" others have the yaws; fome, malignant ulcers ; 
" all of which, when the day of fale draws near, 
" are, by the management of the fhip's furgeon, 
U dried up, and the morbid matter repelled into 
" the fyftem, fo that the furface of the fkin fhall 
* s appear clean and fmooth for a time, but which 
ft afterwards creates the moil dreadful complaints, 
" too frequently baffling all attempts to cure. 

The putrid complaints arife from putrid air, 
putrid water, and uncleaniinefs occaiioned almoft 
altogether by the too great numbers crammed into 
comparatively fmail mips in a torrid climate — want 
of good water and provifions, and ventilators, to 
purify the air. 



D 4 NOTES 



( 56 1 

NOTES on the Examination of Adam Ander- 
son, Practitioner in Phyfick and Surgery, 

■ ■ That with one partner he had the phyfical care 
*' of near 4000 flaves"- — by phyjical care is meant, 
that he and his partner were the phyficians, fur- 
geons, apothecaries, and men midwives to 4000. 

" That one-fourth of negroe infants perifh of 
if the tetanus, and but one-tenth of the white in- 
* f fants," — the caufe is obvious ; forty times the 
care is taken of the whites, and the confequence 
of that care is the difference in the proportion of 
deaths. 

To the irritation of the umbilicus, afligned as 
the caufe of the tetanus by Doctor Chifholme* 
this gentleman adds that of the putrid matter 
fuffered to generate during (and he might have faid, 
and after) the feparation of that cord, both which, 
with the fatal confequences, I fhall' by and by 
fhew are moft eafily prevented. 

" That he does not believe the diforder, in 
general, is owing to any improper mode of 
treatment of the infant, as he has often known 
it occur, notwithstanding the greateft, care -, and 
that, from the rapidity of the diforder, and the 
tender age of the patient, he knows of no cer- 
tain remedy that fucceeded, either from the ap- 
plication of opiates, or any other medicine, once 
in twenty times : That it occurs in high and 
healthy fituations as well as in low ones, in 
mountainous diftricTts^ as we}l as thofe near the 
fea fide." 

In 



( 57 ) 

In all thefe circumstances I differ totally from the 
doctor. 

" That he is of opinion, that many negroe 
H children die of that diforder peculiar to the 
" Africans, called the yaws, particularly if they 
" are infected during the firft year; which the 
■" mothers in general attempt to effect, on purpofe 
ft to excufe themfelves from labour." 

" Who fhall decide when doctors difagree ?" Some 
doctors are of the fame opinion refpecting the fmall 
pox. — And I, who am no doctor, but who in the 
courfe of my peregrinations have frequently been 
obliged to fupply, as well as I could, the place of 
doctor, furgeon, and apothecary, both to myfelf 
and hundreds of others, and through mercy with 
no fmall fuccefs- — I fay, I differ wholly from the 
doctor in this point, and think that at no time can a 
negroe have the yaws with fuch probability of get- 
ing eafily through them, as when nourifhed from 
his mother's breaft. 

" That he is of opinion, notwithstanding thofe 
st inconvenjencies already enumerated, there is very 
•** considerable increafe of negroes on the properties 
iC of this iiland, particularly in the parifh where he 
*< refides." 

Viz. trie parifh of Saint Ann's. — It is in this 
parifh where the inftance, quoted in a former note 
of the negroes on a plantation having doubled and 
more in feventeen years, occurred. But it is alfo 
in this parifh where the inftance is of one man 
having buried in a few years 300 and odd negroes. 

The 



The fact is, that every parifh in the ifland is gene- 
rally healthy, and all of them unhealthy in fome 
particular Situations -, but the great caufes of in- 
creafe or decreafe is not the parifh, but the parti- 
cular regimen and management on particular plan- 
tations. 

€t That the loffes fuflained in feafonihg newly- 
" imported negroes, are chiefly owing to the many 
" diforders they bring with them, either from 
*' Africa, or contracted on board fhip -, fuch as* 
" venereals, the yaws, and old habitual ulcers." 

" The number of obftinate cafes he has met 
* c with, induced him to inquire of furgeons that 
*' had been in that trade, reflecting the mode of 
* e treatment during the voyage -, and that he has 
* ' been informed, it was cuflomary to fupprefs ve- 
€e nereals by aflringent injections ; to caufe the 
* c yaws and ulcers to difappear by ifchuretic wafhes; 
" and on the day of fale, or a few days before, to 
" hide the fears with blacking and palm-oil : That 
" the epidemic dyfentery is frequent on board 
fC fhip; and though the furgeons have a method 
'* of concealing it on the day of fale, in fome mea- 
" fure, by aftringents, yet it frequently breaks out 
4t after the negroes have landed, with double fury ; 
" Of which he remembers the following re- 
te markable inflance in Colin Campbell, of Saint 
" Ann's, having bought thirty negroes in King- 
** fton ; an epidemic dyfentery broke out among 
* e them foon after their arrival at the plantation, of 
" which twenty-four of them died; the diforder 
" was communicated to the refl of the negroes on 

iS die 



I 59 ] ' 

<e the plantation, and feveral of them likewife fell 
<■ a facrifice to it." 

This gentleman agrees with the others in the un- 
doubted fade, that negroes bring here with them 
putrid difeafes, contracted on board the fhips during 
the voyage. — All which testimonies it is to be 
hoped will induce the Britim legiflature, whofe 
right it is to regulate, direct, and controul the 
general Commerce of the Empire, to attend to and 
provide the necelTary remedies againft thefe very per-* 
nicious and ruinous effects of putridity. 



NOTES on the Examination of 
JOHN Q^U I E R. 

This gentleman alfo hath had for the greater 
part of twenty-one years the care of 4000 to 5000 
negroes. I mail here obferve, that to a regiment 
©f five or fix hundred men there is one furgeon, 
who hath one or more mates or affirmants ; that to 
each fhip of war, having on board from three to 
five hundred men, there is alfo a furgeon and fur- 
geon 's mates. Now if a furgeon and furgeon's 
mates are necefTary to five hundred men, all col- 
lected in a fmall fpace, what care can one or two 
men, acting as phyficians, furgeons, apothecaries, 
and occaiionally men midwives — I fay, what care 
can they take of 4000 or 5000 negroes, every 
two hundred of whom, on an average, are on a 
plantation diflant fome miles from the other, be- 
sides his or their practice amongft the white fami- 
lies, each of which is alfo diftant from the others? 

I ap- 



[ 6o J 

I apprehend it will be thought much eafier, under 
fuch circumftances, to find fault with the igno- 
rance, obftinacy, and inattention of fuch negroes, 
than to take care of them, inform, perfuade, or 
watch over them for good. Once, twice, or thrice 
in a week, to gallop to a plantation, to take a 
peep into the hofpital, or hot-houfe, as it is called, 
write in a book, " bleed this," " purge that," 
" blifter another," " here give an opiate," " there 
the bark," is not, in my opinion, taking care of, 
though it may be called taking charge of, the healths 
of 4000 or 5000 negroes. 

But to proceed with Doctor Quier's examina- 
tion. We fhall fee that he attributes the diforders 
to which the negroe children are incident, to the 
want of cleanlinefs ; the obftinate attachment of 
negroe women to their own old cuftoms ; and par- 
ticularly to their not fhifting the child's cloaths, 
fometimes from want of linen, and other necerTa- 
ries, proper for new-born infants. It is eafy, and 
perhaps convenient, to throw blame on negroe 
women, but here the truth comes out at laft, and the 
word Jometimesy muft. be confidered as a defen- 
iive falvo, which each plantation under the doctor's 
care will apply to the others, and none to them- 
felves ; and which if the doctor had not put in, it 
is probable the 5000 or 5000 negroes, of which 
he tells irs he has the care, would have prefently 
been reduced to 400 or 500. 

** That the negroe women, whether flaves or 
" free, do not, in his opinion, breed fo fre- 
** quently, as the women amongrr. the labouring 
" poor in Great Britain : that he afcribes this 

" chiefly 



[ 6i ] 

chiefly to the promifcuous intercourfe, which 
the greater number of negroe women indulge 
themfelves in with the other fex. That he be- 
lieves the abortions, which he thinks to be ra- 
ther frequent amongft them, to be afcribable to 
the fame caufe : That he has not met with any 
cafes of abortion, which he could fairly impute 
to ill ufage or exceffive labour : That moderate 
labour is beneficial to pregnant women, as being 
the beft. means of preferving general health." 

I am afraid the reafon here affigned, by the doctor, 
for many of the abortions, is but too true; it is 
the natural confequence of the difproportion in the 
number of the fexes. But when the doctor fays he 
has not met with any cafes of abortion which he 
could "fairly impute to ill ufage or exceffive labour:" 
pleafe to recoiled: what I have faid above on the ex- 
preffion fometimes, which, I apprehend, means 
much the fame ; and I wifh the doctor could, with 
fafety to his practice, have ufed the fame word, 
inftead of not and any ; at leaft, if this alteration of 
words be not an amendment, I will fay the doctor 
is Angularly happy in his fituation. 

" That the cuflom of carrying young children 
" into the field, in the manner, and with the pre- 
" cautions it is now practifed, is by no means hurt- 
" ful to the infants." 

I am of opinion, generally fpeaking, that the 
more both infants and adults are in the open air 
the better ; but the doctor muft allow me to diflent* 
from his afTertion in fome particular cafes -, and let 
others judge, Suppofe an infant tied on its 

mother's 



[ 62 ] 

mother's back, and carried to the field, then laid 
in a bowl or tray, expofed to the direcl rays*of the 
fun j fhould a fudden and heavy rain fall, as is very 
common in thefe climates, I fay, thai can hardly be 
beneficial to the infant, and ftill lefs fo its remain- 
ing in wet rags. I mention this for two reafons, 
one is, to fhew that thofe medical gentlemen have 
fuppreffed whatever might tend to give an unfa- 
vourable idea of our lenity to the negroes; and the 
other is to ihew how neceffary it is to have forae 
means of fhelter for the negroes, either by erect- 
ing tents, or building fheds contiguous to the 
fields, in heavy 3 though tranfient mowers, and 
to call them from the fields when it appears 
that the rain will continue. I am led to this laft 
obfervation by having been an eye-witnefs, when I 

was laft at : Upwards of forty negroes were 

kept at work in the open field for more than four 
hours, that is, till night fhut in, during a conftant 
and heavy rain. 

I am obliged to conclude abruptly, but may 
add fomething more on this fubjed: by another 
conveyance. 

I am, 

Yours, &c 

# * * 



FINIS. 



