OI3BaE&SBfflgS<E>m 



©ccastourtj 6a tljc latt mietntbsnttu 



CHARLESTON. 



bt 



glttylttti. 



CHARLESTON: 
PRINTED AND SOLD BY A. E. MILLER, 

No. 4, Broad-street. 



1822. 



res ¥i?65~,£? *e>. 5" 



gMtmtiutmtut 



The following Reflections are from the pen of a Soldier and 
a Patriot of the Revolution ; whose name (did we feel ourselves 
at liberty to use it) would stamp a peculiar weight and value on 
his opinions. 

They were written after the public disturbances in this place, 
during an excursion into the interior, and have been transmitted 
to a few friends for their perusal, who have deemed them worthy 
of a more comprehensive dissemination than a single manuscript 
copy could possibly have afforded. — It will be sufficiently obvi- 
ous that these Reflections are the result of much patient thinking 
on a subject well calculated to arouse the anxieties of patriotism, 
and to invoke all that the maturity of experience is capable of 
yielding. 

Independently of the intrinsic interest of the subject, and the 
manner with which it is discussed, it is an exceedingly refreshing 
spectacle to witness the exigencies of the crisis summoning to 
the service of his country the zealous efforts and solicitude of a 
Patriot of other times, over whose impulses to public usefulness, 
age is absolutely powerless ; and who yet feels, in unimpaired 
energy, the sentiments which animated his youthful exertions — 
■ (i that we all have a Country to serve, to honour and defend." 

Charleston, November 4, 1822. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



.http://www.archive.org/details/reflectionsoccasOOacha 



THE vigor and decision which marked the con*' 
duct of the City Authorities in preventing the late 
meditated Insurrection of the Negroes in Charles- 
ton ; so ably supported by the patient investiga- 
tion, sagacious conduct, and inflexible justice of 
the Court of Magistrates and Freeholders appoint- 
ed <or the trial of the criminals, has for the pre- 
sent terminated all cause of alarm : and the ex- 
ample made of those infatuated miscreants who 
had rendered themselves obnoxious to the severi- 
ty of the law, will, probably, for sometime, preclude 
the danger of similar conspiracies. It is not to be 
doubted that the Legislative body, and the Magis- 
trates, to whom the care of the public welfare is 
confided, will adopt such measures as their wis- 
dom and patriotism can devise, to prevent forever 
the recurrence of such enormities. Hence it be- 
comes the duty of every one, who has maturely 
reflected on the subject, to suggest, in aid of their 
consultations, such measures as may appear rea- 
sonable, and likely to be attended with success.— 
If these measures have already occurred to the 



minds of those whose duty it is to provide for the 
public safety, the suggestion may tend to corro- 
borate their opinion ; if it offers any thing new, 
the plan will be considered, and adopted or re- 
jected according to its merit. Being deeply inte- 
rested in whatever concerns the welfare of my na- 
tive city, and tremblingly alive to the danger which 
may threaten the amicable and defenceless part of 
the Community, who have, by their exemplary 
conduct at every crisis of our history, so richly 
merited all the protection which duty and affection 
can afford, I may probably mistake the desire for 
the ability to propose measures competent to pro- 
mote that welfare and avert that danger. I will, 
notwithstanding, venture to offer my view of the 
subject. 

Previous to the proposal of any plan for pre- 
venting the recurrence of similar danger, it may 
be useful to advert to the causes which produced 
the late conspiracy. The following may be as- 
signed as some of the most obvious : — 1st, The ex- 
ample of St. Domingo, and (probably) the en- 
couragement received from thence. — 2dly, The 
indiscreet zeal in favor of universal liberty, ex- 
pressed by many of our fellow-citizens in the 
States north and east of Maryland ; aided by the 
Black population of those States. — 3dly, The idle- 
ness, dissipation, and improper indulgences per- 
mitted among all classes of the Negroes in Charles- 
ton, and particularly among the domestics : and, 
as the most dangerous of those indigencies. 



their being taught to read and write : the first 
bringing the powerful operation of the Press to act 
on their uninformed and easily deluded minds; and 
the latter furnishing them with an instrument to 
carry into execution the mischievous suggestions of 
the former. — 4th, The facility of obtaining mo- 
ney afforded by the nature of their occupations to 
those employed as mechanics, draymen, fisher- 
men, butchers, porters, hucksters, &c. — 5th, The 
disparity of numbers between the white and black 
inhabitants of the City. No effort of ours can re- 
move some of these causes, but over others we 
may exercise control. 

1. Nothing effectual can be done by us to obvi- 
ate the influence of the example of St. Domingo, 
so long as it retains its condition. It would be dif- 
ficult also to prevent encouragement being offered 
from thence, because we cannot cut off the direct 
communication, neither, if this were practicable, 
would it avail while the circuitous intercourse 
through the Northern States must remain open. 

2d. Still less can we prevent evils arising from 
injustice, impolicy, and ^discriminating cruelty 
of many citizens of the Northern States, who di- 
rectly or indirectly instigate our Black population 
to such scenes as they lately meditated. I Jt is 
termed injustice, because it is a violation of the 
Federal compact. Impolicy, because if there be 
a single cause which can dissolve the Union, it 
would be the attempt to reverse the conditions 



8 

(and no other alternative could in our situation 
take place) of the present master and slave. It 
would be, moreover, impolicy as it respects their 
own interest; because if they could, even with- 
out bloodshed, effect a general emancipation, the 
influence of the Southern States in the General 
Government would be augmented, and that of the 
Northern States comparatively depressed, in the 
ratio of live to three. It is indiscriminately cruel, 
because, from the nature of the contest their mea- 
sures tend to excite, if the party they favor should 
succeed, it would be a war of extermination to then- 
white fellow-citizens, their wives and children ; as 
was the case in St. Domingo. If detected, as in 
the present instance, they see how many of those 
whose conditions they wished to ameliorate, must 
necessarily be the victims of the law of self-de- 
fence ; — victims of their misguided interference ! 
But such is the state of political enthusiasm among 
many of the less informed inhabitants of those 
States, extended by the agitation of the Missouri 
question to some who formerly held more mode- 
rate opinions, and had taken juster views of our 
situation, that all we can now do is to be vigilant 
to detect any emissaries, and to stop all incendiary 
publications which may be sent from that quarter. 

3d. Over the indulgences which have so pam- 
pered the enormous number of domestics, enter- 
tained by the inhabitants, the State Laws and 
City Ordinances may have considerable control ; 
hut the execution of these laws may be so frus- 



trated by public inattention, and more by the par- 
ticular way of thinking and weakness of many 
proprietors, that it is to be feared this evil will 
not be effectually checked, particularly as it res- 
pects the dangerous instrument of learning, which 
many of them have acquired ; for it is not only im- 
practicable to deprive them of what they have at- 
tained, but as it is easily communicated, it is pro- 
bable that, spite of all endeavors to the contrary, 
this evil will rather increase than diminish. 

4th. Neither will it be practicable to prevent 
those who are permitted to engross the occupations 
of draymen, fishermen, hucksters, butchers, bar- 
bers, porters, &c. from coming into the possession 
of much money, which being almost invariably 
spent in drunkenness and debauchery, prepares 
them to be willing instruments of any delusive 
plan of mischief which may be presented to them ; 
while the instruments of their employments with 
which they are usually intrusted, such as horses, 
tools, &c. and the knowledge they acquire by their 
occupations, increase their ability to do mischief. 
It seems evident, therefore, that we cannot effeq^' 
tually obviate the ill effects of the causes assigned. 
Hence it is the more urgent that we should apply 
the remedy, which appears to be completely with- 
in our control, to the remaining cause, the dispa- 
rity of numbers. 

5th. If we examine the last census, and refer to 

that taken twenty years previous, we shall find 

2 



10 

that this evil is rapidly increasing ; for at the for- 
mer period the white population of Charleston ex- 
ceeded the other, while in the last census the black 
population was to the white nearly as 22 to 14. — 
Now, as it must be admitted that this excess of 
physical force does diminish the great superiority 
which their means and qualifications give to our 
citizens, a reliance on this circumstance must 
have formed the principal encouragement to the 
late attempt; for without it, mad and wild as they 
appear to have been, they would not have dared 
to venture on a contest of force. How impera- 
tive is then the policy of removing this rapidly in- 
creasing evil — this sine qua non of insurrection ! 

The next questions then, which naturally occur, 
are, to what degree will it be necessary to extend 
the reduction ? And what substitute can be ob- 
tained to occupy the employments now filled by 
the Negroes ? 

With respect to the degree, some previous in- 
vestigation may enable us to arrive at a just con- 
clusion. It would, perhaps, appear sufficient, on 
a slight examination, to reduce the number of 
their effectives something below that of the active 
citizens ; because the various advantages of the 
latter, would, in time of action, give them a decid- 
ed superiority over their adversaries ; but it should 
be considered that plots of this kind are always 
intended to be executed by treachery and sur- 
prise; and that the case is not similar to that of 



11 

an openly opposing adversary, whose attempts at 
surprise, or insidious aggression, might by proper 
precautions be averted. But this is an intestine 
enemy, who by availing himself of his advantage- 
ous situation, and properly selecting the time of 
attack, might render it extremely formidable.—- 
That in this case, or even in the case of his being 
greatly superior in numbers, he must ultimately 
fail, is certain; but the mere rumor of a conspi- 
racy would occasion distressing alarm, and the 
attempt, though ultimately unsuccessful, would 
produce incalculable evils. It would be, there- 
fore, prudent not only to reduce their force below 
what, upon a fair calculation, would afford no 
prospect of success to rational persons, but to 
place it so low as to deprive even the rash and 
desperate of all hope. Another consideration also 
points to the propriety of very considerable reduc- 
tion, which is the great repugnance felt by free- 
men to be placed in any respect on the same foot- 
ing with the slave ; whereby many industrious 
white men, who cannot brook either the concur- 
rence or the association of the blacks, are deter- 
red from settling among us : wherefore, if we de- 
sire to see the places of journeymen in the vari- 
ous mechanic arts, occupied by a superior class, we 
must have no blacks in the same rank of society. 
And that it would be highly advantageous, in other 
respects also, to have this class occupied by free- 
men, will be evident from the following conside- 
rations : All the business of these occupations 
would be better performed. In the first place. 



12 

from the emulation to excel ; a strong motive 
among freemen, but scarcely felt by the slave : — 
next, because the rate of wages is necessarily in 
proportion to the skill and good conduct of the 
workman ; whence in the case of the freeman, a 
direct apoeal is made to his interest ; while the 
slave, whose master receives his wages, has no 
inducement of this kind to exertion. Ano- 
ther spur to the industry of the freeman, is 
the hope that his earnings may be sufficient 
to support himself in time of sickness ; and, if 
he has a family, to assist in their maintenance. 
The slave knows that both himself and his family, 
in sickness and in health, must be supported by 
his master ; he is, therefore, perfectly indifferent 
on this score : the continuance of the industry 
and good conduct of the freeman, is cherished by 
the expectation that persevering success will ad- 
vance him in the ranks of his occupation ; that 
from a journeyman he may in time become a mas- 
ter workman : — the slave can have no such ex- 
pectation. A further advantage in the employ- 
ment of freemen is, that with them much busi- 
ness may be executed by job work, a mode which 
of late years has been productive of great satis- 
faction and utility ; being found profitable to both 
parties ; because while the employer has his work 
completed according to his direction, without fur- 
ther superintendance, and in general, at a cheaper 
rate ; it operates as a stimulus to exertion by the 
workman whose earnings are in proportion thereto. 
Job-work by the slave who has no inducement 



13 

either to greater accuracy or expedition, would be 
of no advantage. In drawing the above compa- 
rison, no stress is placed upon the superiority of 
natural ingenuity, and comprehension of the white 
man over the black, although it is believed to be 
considerable ; for, though good imitators may be 
found among the blacks, it is very rare to find one 
who can plan or invent, even in the business in 
which he has been educated, and carefully in- 
structed. 

Enough has, probably, been adduced to convince 
our fellow-citizens, who are master-mechanics, 
that the employment of white men would, upon 
the whole, be more to their advantage than hiring 
at a lower rate of wages, these inferior workmen. 
Long experience has also proved to many owners 
of black tradesmen, who are not themselves me- 
chanics, that they are not so profitable to them 
when hired out in town, as when working in the 
field, or at their trades, when required, in the 
country. The nominal rate of wages in town 
seems much in favor of employing them there ; 
but the sick days, the idle days, the doctor's bills, 
the work-house and guard-house fees, which are 
the results of that intemperance and debauchery 
so generally prevalent, diminish in an extraordina- 
ry degree the profits of his labor, while it ruins 
the constitution and morals of the slave. And if 
the master-mechanics who own any of this pro- 
perty were accurately to calculate the interest of 
their capital, the insurance of life, and the vari- 



14 

ous draw-backs of the nature of those above enu- 
merated, they would find it not much to their ad- 
vantage, to employ this species of workmen even as 
owners. Reasoning analogous to the above would 
show also that the employment of draymen, porters, 
fishermen, hucksters, butchers, barbers, &c. would 
be more advantageously filled by white men. It will 
likewise apply, with equal force, to the house-ser- 
vants, or those employed immediately about the 
persons, and in the dwellings of the inhabitants. 
But it must be admitted, that these would be 
given up with more reluctance, and could be re- 
placed with less facility ; they are, however, cer- 
tainly the most dangerous ; their intimate ac- 
quaintance with all circumstances relating to the 
interior of the dwellings ; the confidence reposed 
in them ; and the information they unavoidably 
obtain, from hearing the conversation, and observ- 
ing the habitual transactions of their owners, af- 
ford them the amplest means for treacherous blood- 
shed and devastation. The success, therefore, of 
servile conspiracies, mainly depends on this class, 
for taking off by midnight murder their unsuspect- 
ing owners ; and the late trials, by exhibiting so 
large a proportion of this description among the 
ringleaders of the conspiracy, afford a melancholy 
proof of their promptitude to become prominent 
actors in such scenes. A conviction of the truth 
of these remarks would, probably, induce a dis- 
position more willingly to relinquish the services 
of these dangerous dependants, if an adequate 
substitute could be procured : and this leads to a 



15 

consideration of the probability of our being able 
to procure substitutes for these several classes, 
whose disadvantages, as it respects pecuniary in- 
terest, has been shown, and from whom the danger 
is too manifest. 

That, if we get rid of the blacks, who now oc- 
cupy these employments, we may easily supply 
their places by free white men, will be evident 
when we reflect that the advantages of commerce 
are become so extensively beneficial, that wher- 
ever it has a free course, the supply of all trans- 
ferable articles is equal to the demand ; so that 
if it be once known, that Charleston requires any 
number of mechanics, draymen, &c. who will be 
liberally paid for their services, as many as can be so 
remunerated will find their way thither, provided 
there be no impediment to their exercising their 
business with safety and satisfaction to them- 
selves. Two objections have hitherto formed this 
impediment; — the reported unhealthiness of the 
climate ; and the competition of the blacks. — 
This last, which is believed, for the reasons as- 
signed, to be the most powerful, will of course 
cease with their removal. With respect to the 
climate, the frequent recurrence of the yellow fe- 
ver within the last thirty years, has undoubtably 
given an unfavorable impression of the salubrity 
of our City ; but, as its ravages have not been so 
extensive, nor so certainly fatal, in its last acces- 
sions, as it has not appeared here for several 
years ; and as the increased attention to clean!?- 



16 

ness may, by Divine permission, avert for a pro- 
tracted period, this scourge of the cities of hot 
summer climates, we may reasonably hope that it 
will not be an insuperable objection in the emi- 
gration of the persons required ; but that they 
will readily offer their services, when they are in- 
formed, as they may be with truth, that a consi- 
derable portion of our population consists of accli- 
matised foreigners; that the general salubrity of 
Charleston is scarcely surpassed by any city of 
great population, when not visited by yellow fe- 
ver; and when they learn the superior encourage- 
ment given to industry in active employments.— 
Who that contemplates the unhappy condition of 
Ireland, where impolitic regulations, and the enor- 
mously unequal distribution of property have re- 
duced a brave, industrious, and honest peasantry 
to perish by famine in a fruitful country, when at 
the time there is no real scarcity of provisions, 
can doubt that from that ill-fated Island alone an 
accession might soon be received, of active, indus- 
trious mechanics and labourers, to a City, where 
are already comfortably established, so many of 
their countrymen, who having passed through 
their seasoning, and now understanding the pre- 
cautions necessary to be taken on change of cli- 
mate, would with their accustomed benevolence 
and hospitality, effectually advise and assist the 
new-comers to establish themselves with safety 
and advantage.— -Nor is Ireland the only part of 
the globe whence indigence and oppression com- 
pell the industrious to emigrate ; but we might 



17 

reasonably expect to see the destitute of various 
countries, resorting to a place where they would 
be certain of profitable employment. 

Nor would the supply be limited to foreign 
countries, for in this part of the United States, 
encouragement to industrious occupation is so 
groat, that we every autumn witness the importa- 
tion of a considerable number of industrious me- 
chanics and fishermen from the Northern and 
Eastern States, where neither oppression nor re- 
gulations tending to create inequality of property 
exist. And it is probable, that many of them 
would bring their families and establish themselves 
among us, were it not for the humiliating consi- 
deration, that they would, in some respects, be 
placed so nearly on a level with the slave. Their 
present practice of returning home in the summer, 
proves how encouraging must be that reward of 
industry, which can profitably defray the expense 
of two sea voyages in a few months. That no 
climate will deter from emigration to it, is proved 
by the disregard daily shown to the dangers aris- 
ing therefrom ; a disregard founded on the hope 
of individual exemption, so natural to the human 
mind. Hence the immense population of Con- 
stantinople, the head-quarters of the plague ; and 
of Havanna, Batavia, and other cities, which, 
though the constant seats of fatal disease, are so 
thickly inhabited, that their population seems to 
be in an inverse ratio to their salubrity. It may, 

therefore, be fairlv concluded, that no fear of our 
3 



18 

climate will prevent us from receiving as large a 
supply as our exigencies may require, of indus- 
trious mechanics, draymen, &c. That a suffici- 
ent number of white persons would readily come 
to undertake also, the domestic or menial offices, 
were the blacks totally dismissed, must be evident 
from their being no scarcity of such persons, 
wherever their services are required ; but repeated 
experiments have proved that they cannot, with 
advantage, be mixed with the black domestics. — 
It is true, also, that the habits of our inhabitants 
render them averse to employing such domestics; 
having seen these offices constantly occupied by 
slaves, they would, with reluctance, exact similar 
services from those whom nature, as well as the 
law, have made their equals: and, it must be ad- 
mitted, that this same perception ol equality ren- 
ders hired domestic servants less obsequious, and 
in some measure, more independent in the United 
States, than those occupying similar stations in 
Europe. In order, therefore, to command the 
services required, it will be necessary that they 
should be liberally remunerated. With this in- 
citement to obedience and orderly conduct, aided 
by the desire of insuring good employment, by 
keeping a good character ; and encouraged by that 
humane consideration for their condition, which 
will be here generally prevalent, it is probable 
that the essential part of their services would be 
more efficient than that of those now employed. 
The expense, also, of liberal encouragement, 
would not be beyond the present rate ; for, al- 



19 

though the wages paid to each hired servant 
might exceed the interest of capital, insurance of 
life, and maintenance of a slave in the same situa- 
tion, yet, it should be considered, that the fami- 
lies of the hired servants would be no incum- 
brance on the employer ; that he would not have 
to maintain the superannuated, the infirm, or the 
indolent, who are now so heavy a tax on the pro- 
prietor ; he would then contract for efficient ser- 
vice, which, if the person employed, should be 
incapable or unwilling to perform, he would be 
discharged, and a more suitable subject engaged. 
It may be fairly presumed, from what has been 
adduced, that hired service would be most efficient ; 
considerable saving would result from the reduc- 
tion which might be made in the number oi ser- 
vants employed: — and on examining the domestic 
establishments of persons of similar property and 
stations in society, in the Northern Cities of the 
United States, we shall find that the domestics 
there are not so numerous, by one half, as those 
in Charleston ; and as persons of the same des- 
cription might be employed here, no good reason 
can be assigned why the same reduction in num- 
ber should not take place in Charleston ; in which 
case, the employment of white servants would 
be more economical than the work of the slaves. 

If the proper authorities should be of opinion 
that it will be advantageous and practicable, to 
make for the City, this exchange of the black for 
a white population, they will, of course, proceed 



20 

with that prudent deliberation, which will ensure 
its execution to be attended with a* little loss and 
inconvenience to the proprietors as possible ; time 
being allowed for the sale, hire, or other disposal, 
out of town, of the coloured people ; and notice 
given, in proper places, of the employments for 
which occupants will be required. The details 
for the execution of such a plan will require 
much practical information, sound judgment, and 
discretion : and even when conducted in the most 
judicious manner, will, probably, be attended with 
much temporary inconvenience and expense. The 
question then, to be decided is, whether the object 
be worth the cost ? To solve the doubt, it may be 
proper to review some of the most prominent dis- 
advantages of the present system, and the benefits 
to be expected from the change. 

The disadvantages are principally the result of 
the condition of the slave, which depriving him of 
all interest in the success of his exertions, re- 
moves the most powerful stimulus to industry and 
good conduct. The terror of punishment is not 
an adequate substitute for this all-powerful mo- 
tive. That may be easily eluded by falsehood 
and cunning, and is often averted by compassion ; 
indeed the infliction of corporal punishment is so 
repugnant to human feelings, that its effecj is the 
reverse of " twice bless'd mercy," punishing him 
who inflicts as well as him who receives. It is, 
therefore, rarely applied with effect. Hence 
every thing consigned to the management of the 



21 

slave, who has neither the incitement of interest, 
nor the fear of certain punishment, is neglected 
or abused, — Horses, and all inferior animals left 
to their charge, are badly attended ; their proven- 
der finds its way to the dram-shops, and they are 
used frequently without discretion or mercy ; their 
cariages and harness are slightly and badly clean- 
ed ; the tools of the mechanics are broken and 
lost through neglect; their very clothing becomes 
more expensive through their carelessness, arising 
from the knowledge that they must be supplied 
with all these articles, as well as their subsistence, 
at their master's expense ; and waste, that moth 
of domestic establishments, universally prevails. 

Another disadvantage is, that the morals of the 
slave, from the want of education, and the absence 
of self-respect, are more depraved than those of 
the freeman in similar stations : it cannot be de- 
denied, that the latter, in some situations, are at a 
low ebb ; but it will always be found where that 
is the case, that the depravity is the result of great 
inequality of conditions, and other unjust politi- 
cal institutions, where the lower order are re- 
duced more nearly to the condition of slaves. — 
But, it is in the nature of things, that any class of 
white men, possessing the privileges enjoyed by all 
in the United States, must, generally, be exempt 
from the degrading vices of the slave. Hence, 
in addition to the various other benefits to be 
derived from this superiority, the morals of our 
children would be more safe, and less liable to 



22 

contaminaton by that intercourse with servants, 
which, in early youth, is unavoidable : and this 
objection to a continuance of the use of black do- 
mestics, must alone have a preponderating influ- 
ence with considerate parents. But, the greatest 
of all their disadvantages, is, certainly, that of 
which Charleston has lately experienced the ter- 
ror. 

The above are some of the disadvantages of the 
present system : the benefits which will be deriv- 
ed from the change, will be, in the first place, se- 
curity : not merely that we and our families shall 
be safe from these horrors, but, that we and they 
shall feel, and be perfectly assured that we are so ; 
that we may retire to our repose at night, with 
the certain knowledge of our immunity from the 
dagger of the treacherous internal assassin, and 
all the horrors which were so fatally exhibited at 
St. Domingo, and were distinctly threatened here. 
Another advantage is, that all the labor and do- 
mestic business of the City, will be better perform- 
ed, and all articles committed to the charge of 
subordinate agents more carefully preserved. 

But, it is not merely exemption from the disad- 
vantages attending the employment of slaves, that 
will result from the change of system, but great 
positive benefits will attend the introduction and 
employment of so many white inhabitants. The 
most obvious, is the effective force which will 
thereby be added to the militia of the City. If, 



23 

in the place of 22,432 coloured persons now main- 
tained there, only half the number of white inha- 
bitants were introduced ; as all the mechanics, 
the draymen, the fishermen, and the porters, 
would of course be males, more than five thou- 
sand effective men would be added to our mus- 
ter-roll ; whereby, not only Charleston would be 
perfectly secure, but all thoughts of servile insur- 
rection in the country, would be forever banished: 
for with a militia force of seven or eight thousand 
men, well armed and accoutred, which would 
then compose the militia of Charleston, on one side, 
and the numerous white population of the upper 
country, on the other ; it would be more than mad- 
ness for any portion of the country slaves to medi- 
tate an insurrection, destitute as they are of most 
of the advantages and facilities for such an enter- 
prize, of which those in Charleston might have 
availed themselves. 

What an additional protection to our City, also, 
in time of war, would this augmentation of force 
afford ? Little occasion would then exist to har- 
rass our fellow-citizens of the interior, to come 
down as militia-men to our assistance ; nor would 
there be any reason for distressing those of the low 
country, by the incessant dudes of the patrol, 
now so indispensably necessary for safety, but 
which then would have only for its object the pre- 
vention of minor irregularities. — Charleston would 
also acquire an increase of political importance, 
both in the State and in the Union ; her pure po« 



24 

pulation would, probably, in a few years, exceed 
the number of mixed inhabitants she now pos- 
sesses ; for the slow progress that has been made 
both in number of people, and value of property, 
when compared with other cities of the United 
States, may fairly be attributed, in a great mea- 
sure, to the nature of her lower population ; to a 
residence among whom, such general and well- 
founded repugnance is prevalent. 

It is generally admitted, even in these South- 
ern States, that the slavery which here prevails, 
is an evil entailed upon us by our former British 
Tulers, and difficult to be averted from its exten- 
sive influence, being amalgamated with most of 
the property of the country ; as well as on ac- 
count of the nature of our climate, and a part of 
our soil : but all must agree, that it would be com- 
patible, both with our interest #nd our principles, 
to get rid of it where it can be done without en- 
dangering the welfare of the community. Here 
then, is the place, where this desirable purpose may 
be effected, without material injury to the inter- 
ests of any party, and not only with safety, but, 
where it will be the parent of security. The 
interests of the owners will not be injured, be- 
cause they may, by sale, by hire, or by employ- 
ment on their own lands in the country, obtain 
nearly an equal interest on their capital, to what 
it now produces. It may, also, be fairly assumed, 
that it would, in some points of view, be benefi- 
cial to the slaves ; for by annihilating all pros- 



/ 



25 

pects of success, every temptation to revolt would 
be removed, and they could never be again sub- 
jected to the horrors and calamities, in which an 
attempt at insurrection, whether at first success- 
ful or not, must inevitably involve them. Besides, 
while they continue in any degree, objects of ap- 
prehension to their proprietors, which in then- 
present position must be the case, it is in human 
nature that they will be viewed with distrust, and 
considered as hostile to their safety ; and the bene- 
volence and humanity, which their services and 
situation would otherwise command, will be re- 
pressed. But place them where, not being dan- 
gerous, they cannot give rise to unfriendly emo- 
tions, and they will again be considered as the 
victims of former policy, as the unfortunate in- 
struments of our comforts and our prosperity ; and 
the kindlier feelings of nature will freely operate 
in ameliorating their condition. For the proba- 
bility of this result an appeal may be made to the 
recollection of those who have observed the fa- 
vorable alteration in the condition of these peo- 
ple, since the termination of the revolutionary 
war. But an excess of these humane feelings, 
combining with other causes, accumulated in 
Charleston, but which can never exist in the 
country, rendered them in the late instance, in- 
stead of a blessing, a curse to both parties. If 
then, the existence of the present system be at- 
tended with inconveniences so great, with dangers 
so formidable ; and the alteration proposed will 



26 

not only avert them, but be productive of further 
benefits; if all experience proves that nothing 
good and valuable can be obtained without exer- 
tion and expense, no reasonable person will ob- 
ject to the price or inconvenience attending the ex- 
change. The expense will be nothing more than 
the difference of price between the labour of free- 
men and of slaves; the inconvenience will only 
be severely felt, while the alteration is carying into 
effect. It is to be lamented that the greatest 
part of this will be experienced in the domestic 
line, and fall heaviest on that class whom every 
man would wish to exempt from the burden. — 
But, when it is considered that they, and the ob- 
jects of their tender solicitude, their young chil- 
dren, will be, in some respects, the most benefited 
by the measure ; and that habit and judicious 
treatment, will render their future domestics more 
suitable to their views; while they will themselves, 
by custom, become reconciled to such deficiencies 
as may be found in their new attendants ; it is 
hoped they will, with their accustomed self devo- 
tion, make the sacrifice which their own and the 
public welfare so urgently requires. 

The foregoing considerations are the result of 
much anxious reflection on the late occurrences in 
Charleston ; this reflection has convinced the 
writer that, as most of the causes of the late mis* 
fortune are beyond our control, the beet way to 
remove the evil is to abolish that which is com- 



27 

pletely within our power : — He has endeavored 
to show that this total substitution of a free white 
population, for that now employed, will not only 
afford security, but will be attended with other 
important advantages. For the purpose of show- 
ing to every description of the employers of slaves, 
the benefits which will probably result to them 
respectively, from the substitution proposed, he 
has enumerated the most obvious disadvantages 
of several classes of the black population, con- 
trasted with the advantages to be derived from free- 
men in the same vocation : it has also been shown 
that while the change cannot be materially detri- 
mental to the owners, it will, in some respects, 
benefit the slaves themselves. 

The calculations made in this investigation, re- 
late merely to the pecuniary interest of the pro- 
prietors or employers, independently of the great 
objects,of security, strength, and importance ; the 
value of the first of these objects cannot easily be 
made the subject of calculation ; it will be best 
appreciated by those who have felt the apprehen- 
sion of its absence : no effort has been made to 
depict in glowing colors the blessings of its pre- 
sence, or the horrors of the reverse ; for on a sub- 
ject so serious, attempts at eloquence would be 
misplaced. The appeal is made to the sober rea- 
son and judgment of those who have so valuable 
a stake in the decision. An attempt has been 
made to show that the measure recommended is 



28 

not only highly beneficial, but, that it is also 
practicable ; and the whole is, with due deference, 
submitted to the consideration of those to whom 
are confided the safety and the welfare of the 

public. 

ACHATES. 



NOTE. 

AS some persons, interested in the decision of this question, 
may not be accurately informed of the expense attending the em- 
ployment of Negro Slaves, the following statement is submitted : 

The average annual expense of plantation slaves in the lower 
country of South-Carolina, extracted from the account of seve- 
ral executors and attornies, for four successive years, amounts 
to $35 per head. The chief items of expense are provisions, 
clothing, taxes, overseer's wages, medicines, doctors bills, su- 
gar, molasses, spirits, tobacco, salt-fish, ploughs, tools, nails, 
locks, hinges, fish-hooks, pipes, salt, &c. &c. The average 
value of such slaves, rated at what they have usually sold for at 
auction, during many years preceeding 1820, maybe stated at 
$500, annual interest $35. — No charge is made for the insur- 
ance of life, because, with attention and good usage, the natural 
increase will about keep up the numbers, even on rice planta- 
tions, which are considered the most unhealthy. 

The average expense, therefore, of each negro, being $35? 
and the interest of capital, also $35 ; the whole charge against 
each head is $70. But it is found, that in general, not more 
than one half the number are effective workers ; that is, that 
the daily tasks which are performed on each plantation do not 
exceed in number one half the negroes maintained thereon 5 so, 
that for every worker, the interest and expences of two persons 
must be charged, which will make the annual cost of each work- 
ing-hand amount to $140. 



30 

In Charleston, the expense must be considerably greater, be- 
cause there are, in general, clothed more expensively, and more 
daintily fed. In the above expences of country negroes, the 
provisions purchased do not usually form a charge for more than 
two-thirds of the year, because on every plantation, where a full 
market crop is planted, about one-third of the provisions is 
raised thereon : in Charleston the whole must be purchased.— 
The City tax forms an additional charge against the town slave. 
The average price of tradesmen and others, bought and sold in 
Charleston, is also considerably higher than that of field slaves, 
whereby the interest on capital is proportionably enhanced. — 
Where they have not families to keep up the stock, the main- 
tenance of two, for one efficient workman, should not be charg- 
ed against them, but the insurance on life must be substituted, 
which, it is presumed, would there be very high. Sufficient 
data are not at hand to form a precise estimate of the whole ex- 
pense of a Charleston black mechanic or house servant. But 
from the above statement, it must greatly exceed that of the field 
slaves. And when the draw-backs from his efficiency are con- 
sidered, it is probable that the labour of white men will, on the 
whole, be as cheap as that of the slave. 



FINIS. 



