- 



FULL REP ORT 

OF THE 

PROCEEDINGS AT THE MEETINGS 

OF 

fflts&vf>> €j)ompgon ants 3Sori|>fott&, 

AT DALKEITH, 
On Friday (he 22d March, 1833. 

TAKEN FROM THE* GLASGOW CHRONICLE. 



GLASGOW: 
GEORGE GALLIE, & W. R. M'PHUtf. 

1833. 



Ui.HdikZ' 5*1 «v- '* 



E BPO BTc 



On Friday last, March the 22d„, the inhabitants «£ 
Dalkeith were addressed by the celebrated .Lecturers, 
Mr. George Thompson, and Mr. Peter Borthvvick, 
and the reception they respectively met with, was strik- 
ingly indicative ef the state of public feeling in that 
•town, in regard to the great question of Negro emanci- 
cpalion. Mr. Borthwick's meeting was held in the 
Ball-room of the White Hart Inn, and his Lecture 
commenced soon after 12 o'clock. It has seldom, if 
ever, happened to us to witness a more melancholy ex- 
hibition. Not one individual in the whole place came 
■foiward to back the accredited.agent of the Colonial in- 
terest-; but en the little platform sat a solitary gentle-. 
aian, imported, we believe, from Edinburgh, whose 
name we could not learn, and who,, in the absence of a 
chairman and the usual array of friends on such occa- 
sions, was intended, we piesume, to cast a shadow of 
iespectability over the pioceedings. Every thing in- 
deed was upon a small scale — the room, the platform, 
*he audience. The whole seemed to be in keeping 
with the actual state of the Question— rcontracted and 
about to expire. We could almost fancy, while we 
were looking every moment for the appeaiauce of the 
lecturer, that we ha J assembled to hear the dy iijg 



speech and confession of British Colonial Slavery from 
the lips of its last advocate. Altogether the thing 
was painful and humiliating, and we could not but 
enter into the feelings of the fraction of the Colonial 
party present. The assembly, consisting at most of 
S00 individuals, greeted the able orator with a very 
hearty hiss, a sufficiently mortifying salutation to a 
man who, five or six years ago, was a townsman of their 
own. A good many ladies were present — a very few 
of whom supported him now and then by their 
applause. Among the company we observed his for- 
midable opponent, surrounded by several friends who 
had accompanied him from Edinburgh, and diligently 
cccupied in taking notes. 

It has been our lot on former occasions to listen to 
Mr. Borthwick for many a weary hour, and we are not 
only well acquainted with the materiel of his addresses, 
but also with the peculiar manner in which he works 
it up. To do him justice, if we consider the intract- 
able nature of the subject, and the difficulty in these 
days of mystifying a matter that the heads of all can 
understand, and the hearts of all can feel, he is an ad- 
mirable tactician. He seems also to have an intuitive 
perception of the local feelings and prejudices of his 
audiences. This he confirmed b) entirely omitting 
all reference to the great sacrifices he had made foi 
the sake of the Planters—an exordium which he seem- 
ed to think would not be understood by the good peo- 
ple of Dalkeith. Right into his subject he, therefore, 
at once plunged, and he did not come up again for 
above five hours. The shock he received appeared to 
be veiy severe, and it is thought he will not recover 
from it for a long time. As our object is rather to give 
fin account of the general impression made upon the 



public mind, than a report of the speeches delivered, 
(which, indeed, from their length, would be impossi- 
ble), we shall be brief in our notices. Mr. Borthwick 
will excuse us for generally taking his positions and 
assertions in preference to his arguments. We 
can lay hold of the former, while it is not very 
easy to understand the latter. The lecturer com- 
menced by observing that, for twenty-five veais, 
the character and interests of the Planters had 
been attacked by the Anti Slavery Society, while the 
Planters themselves had been silent. It had been 
supposed that, to cross the Atlantic, was sufficient to 
convert a man into a monster, and to cause hi in to 
draw delight from the agonies of his tortured victims. 
The Planters had been accused of pursuing cruelty for 
its own sake, but it was their interest to preset ve the 
health of their Slaves. They sought the welfare of 
their Slaves ; and he (Mr. B.) said that if it could be 
shown to be consistent with the safety of the Slaves 
themselves, he would give emancipation to-night. But 
upon whom did the odium of Slavery lye ? Who made 
them Slaves? The Planters ? No ; the British Go- 
vernment. Slaves had been foiced originally upon 
the Planters, and nine-tenths of West India property 
was held upon the same tenure. With respect to it 
being wrong for Great Britain to participate in slaveiy, 
Lord Eldon said he should hesitate a long while be- 
fore he came to such a decision, because Lord Somers 
had not been convinced of it; nor could he (Lord 
Eldon) hold it to be unchristian when certain Bishops 
hail sanctioned it. The Planters, however, had pe- 
titioned against the slave trade long ago, but the Go- 
vernment would not listen to them. If he (Mr. B.) be 
asked why the Planter* opposed the abolition of its 



afterwards, it was because they opposed monopoly. 
It was of little use for us to abolish the slave trade 
unless we made other nations do the same. By acting 
as we had done, we had increased the woes of Africa 
ten-fold. Sierra .Leone itself was now the nursery of 
the slave trade, and the liberated children, & the adult 
African were not more free in Sierra Leone than they 
were. The question now was, what have the Planters 
done since 1808, and what remained to be done ? He 
would show that the Planters had been faithful to 
their trust. He was not the advocate of Slavery. He 
acknowledged that Slavery was an evil that pressed 
sorely upon all wherever it existed, at the same time, 
he stoutly and firmly maintained, that in the abstract 
it was not a sin. God commanded Slavery under the 
Jewish law; God cannot command sin; therefore 
Slavery in the abstract is not a sin. If it be a sin in 
the sight of God, then let the beautiful Antilles sink 
to the bottom of the ocean ! Fever was an evil, 
cholera was an evil, war was an evil ; but none of 
these were sins. Christianity found Slavery in this 
country, ten times deeper than that of the West Indies. 
Christianity was not opposed to Slavery. Did Clnist 
and his Apostles found Anti-Slavery Societies ? All 
were under restraint— the babe born yesterday was the 
absolute property of its mother, Scotsmen and Eng- 
lishman were deprived of a portion of their natural 
freedom, for the good of Society at large. Slavery 
was not opposed to the law of God; neither was it 
contrary to the law of nations, or of nature ; if it could 
be proved to be at variance with any one of these laws 
he (Mr. B.) would at once give up his cause. Mr 
13. then attempted at great length to fasten var- 
ious charges upon Mr. Jercmie, (in which he ut- 



teily failed) and to expose the inconsistencies of 
Mr. Hamilton Smith. He also, endeavoured to 
prove, in his fashion, that the late rebellion in 
Jamaica, had arisen entirely out of the religious 
system, adopted by the Baptists ; and animadvert- 
ed severely upon Mr. Kmbb, and others, who had 
said that Sbarpe deserved an imperishable monument. 
If Mr. Knibb thought so, it was his duty to have as- 
sisted Sharpe in the rebellion. The Planters had been 
accused of persecuting ministers of the gospel' They 
would never persecute from their shores sound Christia- 
nity. They supposed the established Churches of Eng- 
land and Scotland. Under existing circumstances, it 
was not surprising that the Church Union, thought it- 
self justified, in its proceedirgs ; but it did not speak 
the language of the Planters. The Planters in fact, 
allowed the utmost liberty of conscience to their slaves 
— far more than masters allowed to their servants in 
this country. What restriction is put upon the slaves' 
conscience? "none in the world." The ingenious 
lecturer, then palliated the destruction of the cha- 
pels in Jamaica, and entered upon a long detail of the 
miseries of the rebellion, and quoted a private letter 
from a Miss Mary Grignon to a friend. He enlarged 
upon the comfort and happiness of the slaves ; and 
maintained that they had more time to themselves 
than the labouring population of this country. In 
order to convince his audience, of their superior con- 
dition, he proceeded to read some horrible details 
of the Factory system, as well as accounts of indivi- 
duals who had died from neglect, or who had been ill- 
treated by the parish authorities at home. He fin- 
ally admitted that the Negro possessed the germ of all 
viitue, intellect, and excellence, but denied that the 



8 

germ was sufficiently developed to admit his being put 
in possession of civil freedom with safety to himself. 

Mr. Thompson's meeting was held at 7 o'clock, p.m., 
in the Rev. Mr. King's Chapel, and there, indeed, a 
singular contrast was presented to the oue we have just 
described. Every inch of space was occupied, and it 
was calculated that 1500 souls must have been present. 
The platform , too, was crowded with the friends oi 
the cause, and on the entrance of Mr. Thompson, a 
shout of applause burst from tbe assembly that lasted 
several minutes. Mr. Gray having been called to the 
chair, introduced Mr. Thompson to the meeting. 

Mr. Thompson observed; the reception he had met 
with affected him deeply : so deeply, as almost to de- 
prive him of the power of utterance. The greeting 
hey had given him was that which might have been 
expected by an ancient and long tried friend, but could 
not be anticipated by one whose person was unknown 
to nearly all within those walls. He tendered to his 
opponent his warmest thanks for having been the means 
of introducing him to so large, respectable, and enthu- 
siastic an assemblage of the friends of the Negro. 
When he contrasted the ardent, universal, and long 
protracted plaudits with which he had been received, 
with the cold and withering indifference with which 
his opponent, and his six hours'' speech, had been re- 
ceived, he felt richly remunerated for all the fatigues 
he had endured, and thanked heaven for the honour 
conferred upon him, as the advocate of liberty of con- 
science, liberty of limb, and equal handed justice be- 
tween man and man, throughout the many colourep 
divisions of the human family. (Loud applause.) Not 
only was lie indebted to Mr. Boithwick for an intro- 
duction to the lovers of liberty in the good Town of 



Dalkeith, but for many ami great favours during the 
last nine moons. If the question were put to him (Mr. 
T.) who, from amongst men, he would choose to be 
his coadjutor, he would reply, not Mr. Buxton, though 
he possesses a soul religiously devoted to the cause of 
Negro liberty — not Lord Suffield, the high minded 
Peer, whose worth and never tiring struggles in behalf 
of the sons and daughters of Africa, demand at once 
the gratitude of the nation, and the commendation of 
mankind. — No — he would choose in preference to 
these, or any other friends of emancipation, Mr Peter 
Borthwick. H Yes, Mr. Peter Borthwick for me," 
exclaimed the lecturer, *« for in him I behold the em- 
bodiment of West Jndian humanity, mercy, sagacity, 
& wisdom. The otheis, like myself, would plead with 
straightforward honesty, the right of the negro to in- 
stant freedom ; but while they would secure the sym- 
pathies and suffrages of the sincere friends of the slave, 
they would neither be listened to, nor believed, by the 
temporizing and slow-paced adherents of Colonial des- 
potism." He (Mr. T.) was thankful that at length 
one had appeared able and willing to state fully and 
freely what were the views, wishes, plans, and inten- 
tions of the West India body. He (Mr. T.) would, 
therefore, no longet be charged with misrepresentation 
and falsehood, in attempting to state the case of his 
opponents ; since an advocate had at last been found, 
who deemed it his honour and his interest, to stand 
forth as the representative of that body to which he 
(Mr. T,) stood opposed. To Mr. Borthwick was due 
much of the credit resulting from that succ-ess which 
had followed the discussion of the Colonial question in 
various parts of the United Kingdom ; and to Mr. 
Borthwick would belong the greatest portion of their 



10 

thanks for any additional interest which might that 
night be excited. If while he (Mr. T.), stood before 
them, they should feel their zeal increased, their con- 
victions of the justice of their cause strengthened — 
if the pulses of their hearts should beat quicker at the 
name of libeity — if they should view with deeper 
•horror and abhorrence, the hated system of Colonial 
robbery — if they should deeper pledge themselvs to the 
work of mercy in which they were engaged — if any 
thing which lie (Mr. T. ) should say removed a lin- 
gering cloud from their mental vision, or quickened 
their steps in the cause of liberal, and just, and holy 
philanthropy — let due acknowledgement be made to 
him, whjse efforts, in the opposite cause, had led to 
a discussion which produced such effects. (Tremen- 
dous cheers.) He was thankful for this opportunity of 
once more tracking his opponent, ihrougti the serpen- 
tinings, and almost inextricable mazes of an artful 
and impious sophistiy. If lie (Mr. T.) should succeed 
in showing that Mr. Boithw ck had that day been guilty 
of putting a forced & unnatural construction upon cer- 
tain Sciiptuies — that he had libelled the Deity — disho 
nuured man — obscured the glory of the blessed gospel — . 
and wilfully and grossly misiepiesented the genius, de- 
sign, and spirit of the British constitution — it would 
not be necessary, having thus destroyed the foundation 
upon which most of the positions of his opponent were 
built, to dwell upon eveiy audacious assertion, and 
malignant insinuation which lie had uttered. (Great 
applause.) What, then, were the chief arguments of 
Mr. Borthwick ? They weie, fust, that the Planters 
were justified in holding slaves, because they were 
oiiginally compelled to pui chase them. He (Mr. T.) 
denied both the piemises and the conclusion. The 



11 

Planters weie never compelled to purchase slaves. 
Even if it could be shown that their lands were origin,, 
ally granted with an understanding that they should 
labour them by slaves, yet they (the Planters) volun- 
tarily became the possessors of land upon a condition 
which made it sinful in them to become the cultiva- 
tors. But Mr. Borthwick knew, or ought to have 
known, that the charters of the colonies were decided- 
ly opposed to slavery, and were granted by the Crown 
upon the express condition that all laws made under 
them should be " agreeable, and not repugnant, unto 
reason, nor against it ; but as convenient, and as agree* 
able as might be to the laws, statutes, customs, and 
rights of the kingdom of England." And again, that 
they should M extend not to the hurt or discommodity 
of any person, or persons, nor to the binding, constrain- 
ing, burthening, or taking away their liberty, goods, 
or chattels." Mr. T. argued, at great length, that 
the laws and practices of former times, if shown to be 
unjust and pernicious, could be no justification for 
their continuance at the present day. He observed 
that his opponent's allusion to Lord Eldon was some- 
what ludicrous. He (Mr. B.) had stated that his 
lordship "hesitated" to sanction the abolition of sla- 
very. Why did he hesitate ? Was it because huma- 
nity, or justice, or religion, or mercy, or truth, said 
pause ! No — for none of these reasons did this most 
excellent ex-Chancellor "hesitate," but because, for- 
sooth, Lord Somers had approved of its continuance; 
Most noble Judge, of " hesitating" notoriety, amongst 
thy other doubts let this and its cause be for ever 
recorded ! (Cheers.) The question was, not who 
commenced Slavery, or who had fostered it ? but whe- 
ther it did not sully our character, degrade our fellow- 



12 

subjects, and require immediate extinction. Its anti- 
quity was no defence. Upon such a principle we 
might revive the superstition of Popery, and rekindle 
the fires of Smithfield. Mr. T. next pioceeded to 
grapple, in a masterly and convincing manner, with 
his opponent's view of Slavery in the abstract. He 
ridiculed, with great effect, Mr. Bortliwick's asser- 
tion, that because fever, and poverty, and war, were 
evils pressing sorely on mankind, and not sins, therefore 
Slavery was merely an evil and not a sin. " I grant,'* 
said Mr. T., " that if visited with a raging fever, or 
poverty, or the horrors of war, or captivity, I am 
not therefore a sinner. I admit that it is not a sin in 
the Negro to be a Slave, but I hold, that to inflict 
war, or fever, or poverty, or Slavery, upon mankind, 
is to violate the laws of God, and to be guilty of all 
the misery to which the victim under any or all of 
these evils is subjected. Mr. T. then reviewed Sla- 
very under the Old and New Testament Dispensation, 
and severely commented upon a part of Mr. Bortli- 
wick's lecture, in which he had attempted to justify 
West India Slavery from the circumstance that men 
are *' bought with a price," even the " precious blood 
of Christ." » What !" exclaimed Mr. T. with great 
indignation, " shall the great and glorious, and funda- 
mental doctrine of Christianity, even the atonement 
'of our Saviour, be made an argument in defence of so 
impious and diabolical an institution as that of Sla- 
very ? Alas! for Mr. Borthwick— he has, indeed, 
heard, to little purpose, the doctrines of the Cross ex- 
plained in this church, of which he was once a mem- 
ber. Does he not know that " the price" of which he 
speaks was paid down, not to buy men into Slavery, 
but to redeem them out of Slavery ? (Tremendous 



13 

cheering.) Does he not know that the gospel which "h© 
has libelled, is a gospel of good will, and all who feel 
its power are introduced into " the glorious liberty ol 
the sons of God"? I -recommeud him to read with 
reverence and prayer the holy pages he has this day 
traduced; that his head and his heart may be puri- 
fied from the clouds of ignorance, and the corruption 
>of interest, by which they appear to be now misled. 
{Applause.) Mr. T. next took up the views of his 
opponent regarding the natural and abstract rights of 
man, aud successfully demonstrated that his opponent 
had wholly misunderstood, or flagrantly misrepresent- 
ed, certain passages which he had referred to in the 
writings of Blackstone. "Mr. Borthwick," obseived 
Mr. T., " appears to have no respect either for the 
law or the gospel. Ancient and modern, human and 
divine authorities, are all the same to him. He ascends 
to the throne of the ever-living God, and pleads His 
sanction for a system of robbery and wrong. He stands 
upon the ashes of the dead to vindicate the despotism 
of the living; He goes to the fountain of liberty, and 
having corrupted it at its source, he administers the 
bitter draught of Slavery. Oh ! how would those great 
and noble men frown upon him, if, from their se. 
pulchres, they could come forth to vindicate their 
words which have been this day tortured into wicked- 
ness, to aid the cause of oppression. (Loud and long 
continued cheers.) I plead for the equity and good- 
ness of my God — I plead for the purity and unchange- 
ableness of His law — I plead for the spotless honour 
and resplendent glory of the gospel — I plead for that 
constitution which is the boast and honour of my na- 
tive land — I plead for the rights, natural, absolute, 
aud eternal of my fellow-men — and I know that in 



14 

behalf of the God whom you worship; and the Lav? 
which you reveie; and the Gospel in which you exult; 
and the constitution under which you live, and the 
rights which to you, and to all men, are more dear 
than health, and wealth, and life; I shall not plead 
in vain against the foes of humanity, and their most 
insidious and unblushing advocate. (Tremendous ap- 
plause.) Where is our warrant for Slavery? Is it 
in the bible ? No, Its laws prohibit it. Its threat- 
ening denounce it. The wrath of its great author is 
revealed against it. Its promises and its provisions 
invite to life and liberty, and its prtcepts inculcate 
love, peace, and good will amongst the inhabitants of 
the earth. Where is our warrant for Slavery ? Is it 
in nature ? No, She has fixed in our bosom a rest- 
less desire after libeity; she nerves our arm to fight the 
battles of liberty; she has made liberty the atmosphere 
in which alone our souls expand and giow ; she has 
oidaiued that it shall be the only soil in which we can 
be nuitured to the full height and dignity of perfect 
men ; and with her fire lighting up his eye, and her 
emotions kindling his heart, the victim of oppression 
says — 

" If I'm designed yon lordling's slave, 

By NATURE'S law design'd, 

Why was an INDEPENDENT WISH 

E'er planted in my mind ? 

If not, why am I subject to 

His cruelty and scorn ? 

And why has man the will and power 

To make his fellow mourn ?'* 

(Great cheering.) 
Slavery, then, is not the institution of natuie. We 
have seen, too, that it is equally opposed to the laws of 
nations, and to tiie genius and spirit of oui constitu- 
tion. (Cheers. J My opponent made his whole que a- 



15 

tion to hinge upon the consistency of slavery with 
those laws. If I have shown you that those laws con- 
demn it, he has lost his cau>e, and should he again in- 
sult your town by making it the scene of a second ex- 
hibition, I trust you will leave him in unparticipated 
possession of the White Hart Ball-ioom, and let him 
enact his pro^slavery drama with only Mr. Peter 
Bo thwick for an audience. (Loud Laughter .) — 
Should he again libel the profound Blackstone, I 
trust he may be haunted by the ghost of that venera- 
ble lawyer's wig, till lie renounces sentiments so repug- 
nant to the head and to the heart of him who wore it. 
(Renewed laughter.) Indeed, Mr. Borthwick ap- 
pears to have imbibed, not the wisdom of the wig, but 
to have got some of its antiquated powder into his 
eyes, which prevents him from seeing clearly into the 
instructive pages of the mighty dead. (Increased 
laughter.) Mr. T. would take another opportunity of 
refuting the charges which Mr. Borthwick had brought 
against certain individuals who had written or spoken 
against the continuance of Slavery. In the mean time, 
he called upon his audience to do "justice and to 
love mercy." The negro looked to Britain for delive- 
rance from the despot's power ; to Britain he stretch- 
ed out his hands. JLet us not slumber in security at 
home, but make our blessings doubly ours, by impart- 
ing them wide as the influence of our charity could ex- 
tend. Mr. Borthwick had talked of the rights of the 
slaveholder, but he (Mr. T.) would speak ot the rights 
of God and of mankind , he would say render unto 
all their due, tribute to whom tribute, honour to whom 
honour. But liberty and life could not be justly taken 
by man from man, nor be given by man himself to ano-, 
ther. They were received at first from God, and to God 



16 

alone they should be rendered back. Jf, beholding the 
image and superscription of Caisar upon the coin of the 
iealm, we were enjoined to " render unto Caesar the 
things thai are Caesar's;'* beholding the image and 
■superscription of God in the countenance of man, we 
should "render unto God the things that'are God's." 
£ Great cheering.) His (Mr. T.'s) opponent had 
spoken of the horrors of slavery in past ages, he 
(Mr. T.) did not deny them. He was prepared to 
admit, that wars, and tumults, and insurrections, and 
masssacres, had taken place in mixed communities of 
free and enslaved beings. But what was the plain in- 
ference, from these admitted facts, not that we should 
•continue slavery, but abolish it for ever. (Loud cheers!) 
Slavery, had been the cause of these lamentable events, 
and would be the cause of others equally deplorable, if 
not extinguished. If, then, observed Mr- T. , you would 
quench the torch lighted up by the incendiary — if you 
would stay the uplifted arm of a revengeful vassal — if 
you would preserve inviolate the honour and chastity 
of your sisters and wives in distant lands — if you would 
elevate, and ennoble the mind of the negro — if you 
would bind up the wounds of his afflicted spirit—if you 
would hallow his home, and secure to him the free 
exercise of the affection which he beats his wife, and 
his children — if you would teach him to love and bless 
you, as his deliverer — if you .vould bind him to you in 
bonds of closest amity and gratitude — if you would 
build again the demolished temples of your God — if 
you would gather the scattered sheep, of your Saviour's 
flock — if you would shield the ministers of Christ from 
•fiery persecution — if you would prevent the desecration 
of the Sabbath — if, in a word, you would honour God, 
compassionate the miseries of the unhuppy slave, re- 



17 

deem your country from dishonour, and cause the sable 
worshipper of your common father, to stretch out hi& 
free limbs towards heaven J and supplicate its richest 
blessings on your head, then abolish at once, effec- 
tually, and for ever the hateful, inglorious, perniciou s > 
and diabolical system of British Colonial Slavery: 
(The most enthusiastic cheering which lasted for 
several minutes.) 

The above is a veiy faint and imperfect outline of 
Mr. Thompson's splendid and triumphant address? 
which occupied upwards of two hours in the delivery; 
and was listened to throughout with a closeness of at- 
tention, intensity of feeling, and degree of enthusiasm 
which we have seldom if ever witnessed before. At 
the conclusion Mr. Thompson put the question of 
" Gradual or Immediate emancipation"? to the vote. 
Only one hand appeared in favour of the former ; for 
the latter a forest of palms appeared amidst shouts of 
victory and exultation. 

Mr. Thompson signified hi* intention of visiting 
Dalkeith again, and in the mean time challenged Mr. 
Borthwick to a publie discussion of the merits of the 
question : — A challenge,, which we believe, Mr. Borth- 
wick will not have the courage to accept. 

A vote of thanks to Mi. Thompson,, for his most 
able and eloquent Lecture, was carried with great 
acclamation, and the meeting departed, highly de- 
lighted with the proceedings of the night. 



5RXNTED IN THE GLASGOW CHRONICLE OFFICE, 



