•: 
- 



- 

i 

■---,■■ 
- 

■ 

m 

■-) 

v) 
:) 



': -i;^^-2^^Ci;^CCi:^^c!:UX^^c];cL;^J..v^^^^^4C^;^^^^ia; ; ! 



T HE 



ADDRESS AND REPLY 



A 1 " THE 



PRESENTATION OF A TESTIMONIAL 



TO 



S. P. CHASE, 



BY THE 



COLORED PEOPLE OF CINCINNATI. 



CINCINNATI: 

HENRY W. DERBY & CO, 
1845. 



: ■: -;p^;^£;!r;:;r:^i^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library/ The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/addressreplyonprOOchas 



ADDRESS AND REPLY, 



PRESENTATION OF A TESTIMONIAL, 

TO 

S. P. CHASE, 

BY THE 
COLORED PEOPLE OF CINCINNATI; 



WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF THE CASE OF 
SAMUEL WATSON. 



res. 75*5-72 "ft-il 



A. G. SPARHAWK, PRINTER. 



INTRODUCTION. 



It has been thought by many who are inter- 
ested in the elevation and progress of the whole 
American People, that the recent public pre- 
sentation to Mr. S. P. Chase, of a valuable 
and beautiful testimonial of grateful regard by 
the Colored People of Cincinnati, was an inci- 
dent too novel in its occurrence, and far too in- 
teresting in its moral aspect, to receive only 
the passing record of the daily press. Atten- 
tive observers have long appreciated the fact, 
that our colored population are not less sensi- 
tive to kindness than patient of aggression and 
contumely; but the delicate and appropriate 
manner in which this sensibility was manifest- 
ed on the occasion referred to, has attracted no 
inconsiderable attention in this community, and 
certainly indicates a refinement of sentiment, 
which every lover of the well-being and pro- 
gress of society must regard with peculiar and 
cordial interest. 

The immediate occasion of the offering, was 
the elaborate and masterly argument of Mr. 
Chase in the late case of Samuel Watson, 



although that effort was well understood to be 
but the sequel to other and previous services 
in the cause of the Oppressed, which have 
often marked the professional and private life 
of that gentleman, and have awakened a strong 
sense of gratitude among a class, who are the 
more sensible to considerate kindness and 
disinterested service, from experiencing so 
frequently the reverse. 

The case of Watson deserves a passing 
notice. A succinct statement is as follows : 

On the morning of the 21st of January, 1845, 
before day, one Henry Hoppess, having in 
charge the colored man Samuel Watson, ar- 
rived at Cincinnati on the steamer Ohio Belle. 
Shortly after the boat was made fast to the 
shore, Watson was missing. In the evening 
he was found by Hoppess upon the landing : 
not attempting, and probably not thinking of 
an escape. He was seized, lodged in the 
Watch House, and on the following morning 
taken before a Magistrate, in order to obtain a 
certificate for his removal as a fugitive from 
service under the Act of Congress of 1793. 

At this point in the proceedings a writ of 
Habeas Corpus was allowed by the Honorable 
N. C. Read, one of the Judges of the Supreme 
Court of Ohio, in obedience to which Wat- 
son was taken before him and Hoppess was 
required to justify his detention. 

With this purpose, Hoppess alleged that Wat- 



son was a slave in Virginia ; that his master 
had taken him to Arkansas, and, having him- 
self returned to Virginia, had died, having pre- 
viously conveyed Watson to one Floyd : that 
as the agent of Floyd he had proceeded to Ar- 
kansas, obtained possession of Watson, and 
was returning with him to Virginia, when, the 
boat having arrived at Cincinnati very early in 
the morning, Watson escaped. 

The proof showed that at the time of the 
alleged escape the boat was made fast to the 
Ohio shore, and was inside of low water mark : 
that, at the time Watson was seized on the 
landing, he was making no attempt to escape : 
and that those who first noticed the boat on 
the morning of her arrival neither observed 
any indications, nor heard any suggestion of 
an escape having taken place. 

The argument for Watson was opened by 
Messrs. Birney and Johnson, and closed by Mr. 
Chase. They insisted, 

1. That there had been no escape. 

2. That the escape, if there was one, was 
from one place in Ohio to another place in the 
same State, and so not within the constitu- 
tional provision as to escaping servants, nor 
the provisions of the Act of 1793. 

3. That the boat at the time of the escape 
was within the State of Ohio, being fastened to 
the Ohio shore and within low water mark; to 
which line by consent of all, the territory of 



6 

the State extends ; and "beyond this line, they 
insisted, to the middle of the river. 

4. That the holding of persons as slaves in 
Arkansas was repugnant to the treaty with 
France, which provided for the admission of 
all the inhabitants of the territory to the im- 
munities of citizens of the United States ; and 
also to the fifth amendment of the Constitu- 
tion, which declares that no person shall be 
deprived of liberty without due process of law, 
and applies, at least, to all national Territories, 
and States created out of such: and that Wat- 
son having been taken by his alleged master 
from Virginia to Arkansas was free there, and 
could not be reclaimed. 

5. That the Act of 1793, relating to fugitives 
from service, was unconstitutional : that no 
power was conferred by the Constitution upon 
Congress to legislate upon the subject ; and if 
there was, yet the provisions of this Act, 
authorizing seizure without warrant, trial with- 
out jury and without opportunity to the defen- 
dant to cross-examine witnesses against him, 
and judgment by a State Magistrate, irrespon- 
sible in the exercise of this authority to the 
State or the United States, and compensated 
only according to his own bargain with the 
Plaintiff, were clearly unconstitutional. 

6. That the ordinance of 178T confined the 
right of reclaiming escaping servants, as to the 
Territory of the United States northwest of the 



River Ohio and as to the States erected out of it, 
to cases of escape from the original States: and 
that Watson, not having escaped from an origi- 
nal State, could not, therefore, be reclaimed as 
a fugitive from service. 

These considerations failed to influence the 
Court to their whole extent. Judge Read 
decided that slavery might exist in Arkansas ; 
that the treaty with France was for the cession 
of territory and allegiance, and did not change 
the relations of persons and the rights of prop- 
erty. He also held that a slave, escaping to 
Ohio from a new State, is subject to recaption 
precisely as though the escape had been from 
one of the original States. The decision also 
sustained the constitutionality of the Act of 
Congress, authorizing the present summary 
process against escaping servants ; and upon 
the leading point in the case, respecting the 
jurisdiction on the Ohio river, the Court, 
although laying down the principle that slavery 
was strictly local, still held that a master navi- 
gating the Ohio river, whilst upon the water, 
is within the jurisdiction of Virginia or Ken- 
tucky for the purpose of retaining the right to 
his slave ; and that, although the boat which 
contained them should be fastened to the shore 
of a free State, yet a slave going at large would 
be liable to recaption, as a fugitive from one 
State into another — this being an incident to 
the common right of navigation, secured at an 



8 

early day to the people of the States border* 
ing upon the Ohio river. The learned judge 
did not intimate, whether the same rule, thus 
applied to the Ohio, would extend to navigable 
streams which were wholly included within 
the body of a free State. 

Although the result of this opinion was to 
subject Watson to the power of Hoppess, yet 
some principles were recognized of the most 
vital importance to the free States, and the 
full force of which, if applied to the case of 
Watson, might have reversed the issue, and 
vindicated his claim to himself. 

His honor the Judge emphatically recogniz- 
ed the strictly local character of Slavery. — 
"Slavery" said he, "is wrong inflicted by force 
and supported alone by the municipal power of 
the State or Territory in which it exists. It is 
opposed to the principles of natural justice 
and right, and is the mere creature of positive 
law." "If a master bring his slave into the 
State of Ohio, he loses all power over him. 
The relation of master and slave is strictly ter- 
ritorial. If the master take his slave beyond 
the influence of the laws which create the re- 
lation, it fails — there is nothing to support it, 
and they stand as man and man. The slave is 
free by the laws of the State to which he has 
been brought by the master, and there is no 
law authorizing the master to force him back 
to the State which recognizes and enforces the 



9 

relation of master and slave. At one time I 
was of the opinion he had the right of passage 
through a free State with his slave. This 
probably would harmonize with the spirit of 
the compromise upon this subject. But upon 
more careful examination, I am satisfied the 
master must lose his slave; if he brings him 
into a free State, unless the slave voluntarily 
returns to a state of slavery; because the 
master loses all power over the slave by 
the law of the State to which he has brought 
him ; and there is no other law authorizing 
him to remove him. The Constitution of the 
United States only recognizes the right of 
recapture of a fugitive, held to service in one 
state, escaping into another. The person 
owing service must escape from the State 
where such service is owed, into another State. 
The Act of Congress, carrying into effect the 
constitutional provision, authorizes a recaption 
only where there has been an escape from the 
State where the service was owed into another 
State. If there has been no such escape, the 
master has no right of recaption, and the slave 
may go where he pleases — the master has lost 
all control over him." 

Judge Read thus explicitly recognized a 
doctrine which was first fully presented to the 
Courts of Ohio by Mr. Chase, in 1837, in his 
arguments in the case of Matilda, before the 
Superior Court of Cincinnati, and in the case of 



10 

The State against James G. Birney, before the 
Supreme Court of Ohio: but which, at that 
time, met with comparatively little favor. It 
is somewhat remarkable that Judge Read was 
the opposing counsel to Mr. Chase in both 
these cases. This fact gives point to his 
remark, which will be remembered by those 
present at the trial, that the transition from his 
former to his present opinion, might be charac- 
terized as "progress." The popular sympathy 
with the claimant of his liberty, and the 
evident impression produced upon public 
sentiment, by the considerations urged in his 
behalf, were indications, no less significant of 
" progress." 

After the result of the case was known, it 
was determined at a meeting of the colored 
people, that an appropriate mark of grateful 
respect should be tendered to each of the 
counsel for Watson, who had declined the usual 
compensation for professional services. As a 
part of these arrangements, a committee was 
appointed to superintend the preparation of a 
Silver Pitcher, to be presented to Mr. Chase, 
not merely as a token of their gratitude for his 
efforts in this case, but also as a testimonial of 
their grateful appreciation of other and former 
services. The fabrication of the gift was 
entrusted to Messrs. E. & D. Kinsey, whose taste 
and skill are fully attested by the beauty of 
design, and elegance of finish, which marked 



11 

the work they produced. It was copied from 
a fine antique model, with little ornament 
beyond the slight chasing of the borders and 
handle. It bore the following inscription : 

A 

TESTIMONIAL OF GRATITUDE 

TO 

SALMON P. CHASE, 

FROM 

THE COLORED PEOPLE OF CINCINNATI, 

FOR HIS 

Various public services in behalf of the oppressed, 

and particularly for his 

ELOQUENT ADVOCACY OF THE RIGHTS OF MAM, 

in the case of Samuel Watson, 

who was claimed as a fugitive slave, 

Feb. 12, 1845. 

The evening of Tuesday, the 6th of May, was 
fixed for the presentation. At the appointed 
time, a very large assemblage occupied the 
Union Baptist Church, where the ceremony 
was to take place. The Rev. Mr. Satchell, a 
colored minister, first invoked the Divine 
blessing upon the transactions of the evening. 
An address to Mr. Chase, in behalf of the 
colored people, by Mr. A. J. Gordon, himself 
one of them, accompanied the presentation. 

After Mr. Chase had replied, the hymn, 
"America," was sung with great taste and 
feeling. The exercises closed with a benedic- 
tion, by the Rev. Mr. Satchell. 



R, GORDON'S ADDRESS. 



Mr. Chase:— 

Upon me, sir, has devolved the agreeable 
duty of presenting to you on behalf of the Col- 
ored People of Cincinnati, this Pitcher, as a 
token of their high regard and deep sense of 
gratitude towards you, for your remembrance 
of our brethren in bonds as bound with them; 
and also for your zealous and disinterested ad- 
vocacy of the rights and privileges of all class- 
es of your fellow-citizens, irrespective of clime, 
color or condition. In the manner of your ac- 
ceptance of it, in this public manifestation of 
your identification with the cause of the slave, 
we have but another evidence, added to the 
many which have preceded it, of the high moral 
daring of your nature, and the disinterested 
patriotism that has led you to take sides in 
opposition to American slavery and American 
prejudice. During a period of many years, sir, 
we have viewed with silent admiration, and 
with feelings of the liveliest gratitude, the 
prompt and efficient aid you have rendered 
the cause of humanity in your professional 
capacity. Whenever the friendless objects of 



13 

slaveholding cupidity have found themselves 
by the Providence of God, upon our free soil, 
and have sought through the instrumentality of 
the Ordinance of 1787, enacted by the wisdom 
and patriotism of the Fathers of the American 
Revolution, to assert their claims to those 
rights which our boasted Declaration of Inde- 
pendence declares to be inalienable ; their 
right to themselves, to their liberty, and to the 
uncontroled pursuit of those objects which 
would alone conduce to their individual hap- 
piness, they have ever found in you, sir, a firm, 
zealous and devoted friend. Scorning the prof- 
fered price of blood from the hand of the op- 
pressor, and disdaining the prostitution of your 
great legal talents in subserving the cause of 
oppression, and in riveting fetters on the limbs 
of a helpless fellow being, you have invaria- 
bly been found ranked on the side of the op- 
pressed, in opposition to the unrighteous claims 
of the oppressor. Proudly and pre-eminently 
conspicuous among the many cases in which 
you have thus distinguished yourself as a friend 
to the rights of man, stands the recent case of 
Samuel Watson: pre-eminent not only on 
account of the great and unsurpassed legal effort 
that you made to dash from his lips the bitter 
cup of Slavery, and the deep and heart felt sym- 
pathy "you manifested for his hapless fate; but 
also in the marked and decisive evidence 
afforded in the adjudication of his case of the 



14 

advance of anti-slavery sentiment in the minds 
of a large class of your fellow citizens, and the 
triumph of a principle which, for years, you 
have contended for, amid obloquy and re- 
proach. Before the promulgation of anti- 
slavery sentiment in this State, it was of 
common occurrence to witness at our public 
landing, in their transmigration to a Southern 
market, comes of human beings, manacled 
and chained like beasts of burden, and upon 
our principal streets and thoroughfares was 
frequently to be seen some lordling of the 
patriarchal institution, with his human chat- 
tels in the form of obsequious slaves, desecra- 
ting the free soil of our State, and trampling 
under foot her fundamental law. And strange 
as it may appear, during all that lengthened 
period, none thought to question their right, 
and none sought to vindicate the insulted 
majesty of the Law; and when, at length, 
you, together with a noble band of coadjutors, 
planting yourselves on the Ordinance of 1787, 
enacted, as we believe, by the Patriots of the 
Revolution, as a barrier against the growth of 
the Slave Power, and . as a living testimony 
against the foul system, but which had been 
suffered to lie in the grave of pro-slavery for- 
getfulness by their degenerate sons, sought to 
recall it into life, and give it that vitality 
necessary to vindicate the memory of the de^ 
parted patriots who promulgated it, from the 



15 

charge of hypocrisy, you were met by the great 
body of your fellow citizens with the most 
fierce and bitter hostility: you were denoun- 
ced as officious intermeddlers witrr the rights 
of your fellow citizens of other States, plotters 
of treason, exciters of domestic^ feuds, enemies 
to the interest and prosperity of your native 
State: in short, no term of reproach was 
deemed too harsh, by your opponents, to ex- 
press their feelings of hostility towards you, 
for merely enforcing a fundamental law of the 
State, and thereby saving from hapless bond- 
age, from unrequited toil, from a condition of 
brutal degradation — which any of your oppo- 
nents would willingly spill the last drop of 
their heart's blood, rather than submit to — 
fellow beings, made in the likeness of God, and 
destined to the same high hopes and glorious 
immortality as the proudest of your opponents' 
and their oppressors. But, conscious of the 
purity of your motives, and the rectitude of 
the principles by which you were governed, 
and believing with the poet, that 

" Thrice is he armed, who hath his quarrel just," 

armed with the omnipotent panoply of Truth, 
and relying upon the arm of Him who maketh 
even the wrath of man to praise him, you 
pursued the even tenor of your way, unawed 
by the fierce and bitter opposition which 
marked every step of your progress, until at 
length you had the proud satisfaction of hear- 



16 

ing the principle which, when you first assert- 
ed it, was pronounced a mere chimera of fanat- 
icism, proclaimed in the adjudication of the 
case of Watson, as the established law of the 
State. And, although we cannot congratulate 
you that by your matchless efforts in his behalf, 
you won freedom for Watson, yet by this de- 
cision you won a trophy for freedom: you 
secured the free soil of our State from further 
pollution by the footprints of Slavery. 

Equally satisfactory must it have been to 
you, Sir, to mark the progress of Anti-Slavery 
sentiment in the minds of all classes of your 
fellow citizens, which this trial evinced. In- 
stead of the reviling and reproaches which had 
heretofore marked your efforts in behalf of 
crushed humanity, the gushing sympathy of 
approving hearts overleaping the barrier of 
judicial order and decorum, attested their ap- 
preciation of your efforts, and their sympathy 
with the oppressed, by irrepressible applause. 

But not alone in your professional capacity, 
have you distinguished yourself as the friend 
of the slave, and the opponent of American 
slavery, but as a private citizen of this great 
Confederacy in the discharge of all the duties 
pertaining to that high character, you have 
exerted all the moral influence you possess, 
and all the powers of your vigorous mind, for 
their disenthralment, and the entire extinction, 
in a legal and constitutional manner, of the 



17 

i'oul system, throughout the length and breadth 
of the land. In your deep devotion and zeal- 
ous advocacy of the rights and liberties of our 
enslaved brethren, you have not been unmind- 
ful of the deprivation of rights endured, and 
the wrongs inflicted upon the free colored peo- 
ple of this country. Deprived of all partici- 
pation in the affairs of Government, yet com- 
pelled to bear our full share of its burdens: 
taxed, without a voice in the selection of those 
by whom the tax is imposed ; and subjected, 
in this State, together with others, to the most 
invidious distinctions, created by statute, touch- 
ing our dearest and most sacred rights; — our 
condition, by the operation of an unjust and 
perverted public sentiment, which meets us at 
the cradle and follows us to the tomb, is ren- 
dered worse than that of aliens in our native 
land. To right these wrongs, to redress these 
grievances, to wipe from off the statute books 
of our State and Country all invidious distinc- 
tions founded on color, to correct that unman- 
ly and wicked public sentiment which crushes 
us to the earth, and which has no foundation 
in the naturally just and generous emotions of 
the human heart, but is the mere creature of 
a vicious education, you have labored both in 
your professional capacity and as a private citi- 
zen, with a zeal and devotion which commands 
the warmest gratitude of our hearts, and should 
entitle you to the gratitude and admiration of 



18 

every true lover of liberty, truth, and justice, 
I will not trespass too much upon the nat- 
ural feeling of aversion that all good and great 
minds possess to the emblazonment of their 
virtuous deeds within their hearing, by detail- 
ing all of the many acts in which you have 
served the cause of our down-trodden and 
oppressed people ; but let me assure you, sir, 
that each and all of them are engraven on the 
tablets of our hearts, and as long as memory 
retains her seat, will be held in grateful recol- 
lection. In conclusion, sir, permit me to add 
that the prayers of thousands of grateful hearts 
daily ascend to the God of the oppressed, im- 
ploring divine protection and blessings upon 
you ; and that you may soon be permitted to 
witness the triumph of the measures you have 
so nobly contended for — the redemption of the 
slave and the removal of every vestige of 
oppression and prejudice from our beloved 
Country ; and that, when in the providence of 
God you shall be called from your earthly 
labors, and, together with the oppressor and 
the oppressed, appear before the august Bar, you 
may be greeted with the welcome plaudit from 
the lips of Him who came on earth to open the 
prison doors and undo the heavy burdens, of 
"Well done thou good and faithful servant, 
enter into the joys of thy Lord ;" " For inas- 
much as you did it unto the least of these my 
brethren, you did it unto me I" 



REPLY OF MR. CHASE, 



I accept, Sir, with peculiar satisfaction, the 
beautiful gift which you tender to me in behalf 
of the Colored People of Cincinnati. If I fail 
to express adequately my thanks to you, let 
me trust that you will attribute the failure, in 
part, at least, to the novelty of the position 
which I now occupy. It is, indeed, a novel 
position. When as a boy, I first knew the 
people of this city, if any one had hazarded 
the prediction, that in the course of some 
twenty years, the colored inhabitants, then 
hardly in a better condition than slaves, would 
be so far advanced as to offer to public obser- 
vation, the scene witnessed here and now, he 
would have been looked upon as beside himself. 
Little did I imagine that I should ever meet 
you as I meet you now, and be myself an actor 
in such circumstances as now surround us. 

Let me, however, most explicitly, and from 
the heart, disclaim all pretension to the praise 
you, sir, have bestowed upon me. I do not 
desire to be regarded as a leader in the contest 
for Universal Freedom ; but simply as one of 
the rank and file. I see here, to-night, men 



20 

who acted earlier, and have done far more than 
I. I can only take credit, if I take credit at 
all, for not being unwilling to learn and to do. 
Nor in what I have done can I claim to have 
acted from any peculiar consideration of the 
colored people as a separate and distinct class 
in the community ; but from the simple convic- 
tion that all the individuals of that class, are 
members of the community, and in virtue of 
their manhood, entitled to every original right 
enjoyed by any other member. I am only one 
of a great number, who adopt the opinion that, 
in a country of domocratic institutions, there is 
no reliable security for the rights of any, un- 
less the rights of all are, also, secure. In a 
Monarchy or an Aristocracy, the rights, or 
rather privileges, of a class may be created by 
law and secured by law. But in a Democracy, 
which recognizes no classes and no privileges, 
every man must be protected in his just rights, 
or no man can be, by law. The moment the 
law excludes a portion of the community from 
its equal regard, it divides the community into 
higher and lower classes, and introduces all the 
evils of the Aristocratic principle. Henceforth, 
in that community, rights, in the proper sense 
of that word, cease to exist. Instead of rights, 
there are privileges for the higher classes, and 
restrictions for the inferior. We feel, there- 
fore, that all legal distinctions between indi- 
viduals of the same community, founded in 



21 

any such circumstances as color, origin, and 
the like, are hostile to the genius of our insti- 
tutions, and incompatible with the true theory 
of American Liberty. God forbid, that we 
should fail to sympathise, truly and deeply, 
with the poor, the destitute, the oppressed, the 
enslaved colored people of our land ; or to 
exert ourselves strenuously in their behalf; 
but let us not take to ourselves too much credit 
for sympathy or effort, since our own rights as 
well as theirs, are involved in the struggle in 
which we are engaged, and every day's expe- 
rience adds fresh strength to the conviction, that 
slavery and oppression must cease, or Ameri- 
can Liberty must perish. 

There are, say, three millions of colored 
people in this country ; two and a half millions 
are enslaved ; half a million are free. In 
Massachusetts, and in most if not all the New 
England States, the colored man and the white 
man are absolutely equal before the law. In 
New York the colored man is restricted as to 
the right of suffrage by a property qualifica- 
tion: in other respects the same equality 
prevails. In the other Free States they are 
generally excluded from the right of suffrage. 
In Ohio they are excluded from this right by a 
constitutional provision. Various legal provis- 
ions deny to them the benefits of public in- 
struction, of testimony in courts of justice, and 
even of residence in the State, unless upon 



22 

degrading and oppressive conditions. These 
legal disabilities are added in this State, to 
that prejudice which, every where, throughout 
the whole land, is as a rod of iron to smite, 
and a chain of iron to bind, in the hand of 
Oppression. 

I embrace with pleasure, this opportunity of 
declaring my disapprobation of that clause in 
the constitution which denies to a portion of 
the colored people the right of suffrage. True 
Democracy makes no enquiry about the color 
of the skin, or the place of nativity, or any 
other similar circumstance of condition. — 
Wherever it sees a man, it recognizes a being- 
endowed by his Creator with original inaliena- 
ble rights. In communities of men, it recog- 
nizes no distinctions founded on mere arbitrary 
will. I regard, therefore, the exclusion of the 
colored people as a body from the elective 
franchise as incompatible with true democratic 
principles. I am aware that this exclusion is 
effected by a constitutional provision, and 
propose no action against the constitution. 
But, whenever a convention shall be called to 
revise that instrument, I trust that this anti- 
suffrage restriction will be erased. It is, in fact, 
already as ridiculous in practice as it is wrong 
in theory. A decision of the Supreme Court 
has established the rule that all persons nearer 
white than half, are white within the meaning of 
the constitution and laws, and entitled to all the 



23 

privileges of white citizens. It becomes neces- 
sary, therefore, in every case, when a vote is 
tendered at the polls, to scrutinize the com- 
plexion and ascertain the exact shade. There 
are voters here, doubtless — there are certainly 
voters in the State, distinguished too by per- 
sonal worth and political position, who would 
have reason to fear an impartial application of 
such a test. 

The exclusion of colored children from the 
schools, is, in my judgment, a clear infringe- 
ment of the Constitution and a palpable breach 
of trust. Before the organization of the State 
Government, the Congress of the United States 
appropriated one thirty-sixth of all the land in 
the State to the purposes of public instruction. 
The grant was of section sixteen in each town- 
ship, or an equivalent quantity of land " to the 
inhabitants of the township for the use of 
schools." When the State Constitution was 
formed, no person dreamed of excluding the 
colored inhabitants of any township from the 
benefits of this provision. On the contrary, 
the constitution expressly declares that the 
" schools, colleges, and universities endowed in 
whole or in part from revenues arising from 
donations, made by the United States, shall be 
open for the reception of scholars, students 
and teachers, of every grade, without any 
distinction or preference whatever, contrary to 
the intent for which said donations were 



24 

made." For near thirty years after the adop- 
tion of the constitution, no attempt was made 
to exclude any portion of the inhabitants of 
the State from the benefits of the provision 
thus sacredly guaranteed to all. In 1831, for 
the first time, the exclusion of the colored 
children was effected by a legislative enactment, 
which is yet in force. It cannot be doubted, it 
seems to me, that this enactment is repugnant 
to the constitution. It is certainly inconsis- 
tent with the maxims of sound policy and 
wise legislation, which require the highest 
possible instruction of every member of the 
community. 

But exclusion from the schools is hardly so 
great an evil as exclusion from the witness 
box, in all cases where either party is a white 
person. Judge King, in his admirable report 
on the black laws, submitted to the Senate of 
Ohio in 1838, demonstrated to the satisfaction 
of all impartial men, the unconstitutionality of 
this provision of the law. A similar proposi- 
tion for the exclusion of colored witnesses was 
submitted in the convention for framing the 
constitution, and was rejected. On the con- 
trary the constitution declared that all courts 
should be open, and that every person, for any 
injury inflicted, should have redress without 
denial or delay. Where is the utility of such a 
provision, if the law may deny to litigants all 
resort to witnesses necessary to establish their 



25 

rights. Suppose two persons, one white, the 
other colored, arraigned for crime : both are 
innocent, but circumstances are strong against 
both : the only witness who can conclusively 
establish the fact of innocence is a black man. 
In this case the white man may suffer; the 
colored man will escape. Reverse the case : 
suppose them both guilty, and the only witness 
to their guilt a colored man: the white man 
will escape, and the colored man be. convicted. 
This law, also, enables white men to employ 
the agency of colored men in every descrip- 
tion of crime with comparative impunity to 
themselves. It exposes the colored people to 
every species of violence and outrage from 
base and unprincipled whites, who are entirely 
secure from punishment, so long as they per- 
petrate their villanies only in the presence of 
colored witnesses. It is, in fact, a standing- 
license to fraud and oppression, and a solemn 
legislative sanction to crime. Such a law can- 
not fail to exert the most disastrous influences 
upon public morals, 

Such being the character of this legislation, 
it is not surprising that almost all humane and 
benevolent persons are opposed to it. Last 
winter, numerous petitions, praying for its 
repeal, were presented to the Legislature. The 
petition from this city w*as subscribed without 
party distinction, by our most respected mer- 
chants, by our most distinguished professional 



26 

i 

men, by our most venerated ministers of 
religion; in fine, by our best citizens, of 
every occupation. But the law still disgraces 
the statute book. The claims of humanity and 
justice have been postponed to the supposed 
interests of party. 

The statute to which I have just referred, is 
enforced by the Courts. I am about to refer to 
another, which depends rather for its execution 
on popular sentiment represented by the trus- 
tees of the several townships. I allude to the 
provision requiring bonds for good behavior, 
and support in the case of pauperism, from 
colored immigrants. This provision has, for 
the most part, been suffered to repose as a dead 
letter on the statute book. Has the minister 
of the Gospel, who has invoked the divine 
blessing on the transactions of this evening, 
given bonds for his good behavior ? Have you, 
sir, — who with so much feeling, and so much 
ability, and let me add, so much more than 
justice to my humble efforts, have represented 
the colored people here to-night, — have you 
given such bonds ? It has not been needed. 
The bonds given by you are no other than 
those given by all good citizens — conscience, 
reputation, personal interest, social and domes- 
tic ties. I am glad of it; I rejoice that the 
public sentiment is better than the law, and 
has repealed the law. I trust that ere long 
the Legislature will be irresistibly urged, by 



27 

the popular voice, to give the sanction of legal 
form to the repeal which has been, in fact, 
already effected by opinion. 

I arraign the whole policy of our legislation 
in relation to our colored population. I deny 
its justice ; I deny its expediency. I arraign it 
as wrong in principle, and demoralizing in 
tendency, at the bar of sound reason and en- 
lightened opinion. I demand in the name of 
our common manhood, and our common Chris- 
tianity, and our common destiny, the reversal 
of this policy, and the abrogation of this legis- 
lation. The colored people are not alone 
interested in this matter. Every law on the 
statute book so wrong and mean that it cannot 
be executed, or felt, if executed, to be oppres- 
sive and unjust, tends to the overthrow of all 
law, by separating in the minds of the people, 
the idea of law from the idea of right. The 
iron of oppression, if it enters into the soul of 
the oppressed, poisons, with its cankering rust, 
the hand of the oppressor. 

Let me turn now, for a moment to the condi- 
tion of the enslaved. They number two 
millions and a half. I claim for these the 
rights which the Constitution and the Law, 
rightly interpreted, secure to them. I claim 
that nowhere, unless within the limits of the 
original States, can a single person be enslaved, 
except in violation of the Constitution and the 
Law. I maintain that the Declaration of Inde- 



28 

pendence and the Constitution of the United 
States, are the expressions of the anti slavery 
sentiment of an anti slavery people. In the 
former, these expressions assumed the form of 
a solemn proclamation of the National Creed, 
on the subject of Human Rights. In the latter, 
these expressions took the shape of a permanent 
declaration of the National Will, embodied as 
the Fundamental Law of the land. The Dec- 
laration assumed the natural equality of all 
men as the foundation principle of all just 
government. The Constitution, acting on 
things as it found them, established the Na- 
tional government, with such powers and such 
limitations of power, as would, it was then 
thought, secure the final conformity of the 
actual condition of the people to the theory of 
the Declaration. The policy of the Govern- 
ment, at that day, was clearly indicated by the 
Ordinance of 1787. This celebrated Ordinance 
excludes Slavery from the Territory northwest 
of the Ohio, then the only Territory of the 
Nation. The same instrument provides for the 
creation of five non-slaveholding States out 
of this Territory. This 1 provision, it was 
supposed, would secure the permanent prepon- 
derance of anti slavery influence in the Gov- 
ernment. It would have had this effect, had 
not new slaveholding Territory been subse- 
quently acquired, out of which Congress, 
violating the Constitution and disregarding the 



29 

established National Policy, has created five 
additional slaveholding States. 

In the case of Watson, of which, sir, you 
have so feelingly spoken, the constitutional 
limitations of slavery were fully discussed. In 
that case it was my part to re-state the posi- 
tions and re-iterate the reasonings of the able 
lawyers associated with me. I may be per- 
mitted, therefore, to say that, in my judgment, 
the positions were sound and the arguments 
unanswerable. The first of these positions, 
and that on which the whole argument hinged, 
was that the Constitution was not designed to 
uphold slavery, and conferred no power on 
Congress to establish, continue, or sanction 
slaveholding any where. We also maintained 
that slaveholding could not be continued any 
where without the sanction and aid of positive 
law. Did these propositions, sir, need any 
other demonstration than a simple inspection 
of the Constitution furnishes to the first, and 
every man's consciousness furnishes to the 
second ? Surely, Slavery did not descend from 
Heaven, as some Divines profanely teach ; it 
came up from beneath, it did not come down 
from above. Let us hope, however, that it will 
go down, and that right speedily to the place of 
its origin, and know no resurrection. Slavery 
is an institution of force. If I claim to own 
you, sir, and require you to do some service for 
me, and you refuse, and the law puts forth the 



30 

power of the community, in aid of mine, to 
compel you to submit to my disposal, and you 
are compelled to submit, then you are a slave. 
Congress is not authorized to exert any such 
power in behalf of the master. Congress is 
expressly prohibited from exerting any such 
power by the fifth amendment of the Consti- 
tution, which declares that "no person shall be 
deprived of Life, Liberty, or Property, without 
due process of law." How, then, could Slavery 
continue in the territory of Louisiana, after its 
acquisition to the United States ? There was 
— there could be no valid law in the Territory 
incompatible with the Constitution which for- 
bade that any person should be deprived of 
liberty without due process of law. There was 
— there could be no law in the Territory which 
did not exist either through the adoption or by 
the enactment of Congress, or of the Territorial 
Legislature, which derived all its power from 
Congress. Congress could not adopt laws 
which it could not enact, nor confer a power 
on the Territorial Legislature which it did not 
itself possess. Congress has no power to 
legalize the practice of slaveholding. The 
practice of slaveholding, therefore, in the Ter- 
ritory, could not be legalized. Nor could it be 
legalized in any State created out of the Terri- 
tory, unless it can be maintained that a part of 
the people of any one of the States in this 
Union, can convert another part into prop- 



31 

erty if they can get possession of the Legisla- 
ture, and have physical force enough to en- 
force its detestable enactments. 

I have no doubt of the correctness of these 
positions, or of the soundness of the inevitable 
'inference from them, that slaveholding in Ar- 
kansas is unconstitutional, and consequently 
that Watson, having been conveyed to Arkan- 
sas by his Virginia master, was free. But I 
was aware that this doctrine was too little in 
accordance with the received pro slavery" theo- 
ries of constitutional construction, to find 
much favor upon a first hearing, and was not 
disappointed that the Judge did not acquiesce 
in it. I expect, however, to live to see it 
recognized in all Courts as sound law. 

I was disappointed that Watson was not set 
free on another ground. The Judge admitted 
that Slavery was strictly local, that the moment 
any person held as a slave, not within the 
constitutional exception of persons held to 
service in one State and escaping into another, 
passed out of slaveholding territory, he was be- 
yond the reach of slaveholding law, and there- 
fore no longer a slave, but a MAN,/ree hy Divine 
Right. 

It was proved that the boat on which Wat- 
son was travelling, in charge of Hoppess, was 
within low water mark, attached to the Ohio 
shore, and therefore not merely within the 
State, but a part, as it were, of her soil. It 



32 

was not pretended that Watson was a fugitive 
upon the boat. He was free then, there ; free 
to go whither he pleased ; free to every intent. 
No provision for the navigation of the river by 
the citizens of the different States, could 
prevent this consequence ; for it was a neces- 
sary result of the fact that Watson was in Ohio, 
and not a fugitive. The distinguished Judge, 
who heard this case, referred to his own 
change of opinion. Once he thought that 
masters might travel with a slave through the 
State ; now, however, he had become satis- 
fied that if a slave was once landed on the 
shore, with the consent of the master, he 
ceased to be a slave, because beyond the reach 
of slave law. He said this was progress; and 
it was so. I only wish he had made a little 
more progress in the same direction. We should 
not, then, have had occasion to deplore, as we 
now do, the surrender of a man, rightfully free, 
by the Magistracy of Ohio, to life-long slavery. 
But such occurrences as these should only 
arouse us to demand in more peremptory tones, 
the restriction of Slavery within its original 
limits. We ask nothing unconstitutional. We 
make no war on the Constitution. We defend 
it. We demand, for all, the rights which it 
guarantees. We are determined to carry out 
its anti slavery principles to practical conse- 
quences. We act in the spirit of our Fathers, 
and are guided by their example. We act 



33 

as we believe they would act were they living, 
and not dead. 

I am certainly gratified that my humble 
services have procured for me this token of 
your approbation and esteem. I trust, how- 
ever, that the gratification felt by me, is not 
altogether personal or selfish. That ready 
appreciation of benefits received, or rather of 
efforts honestly and sincerely intended to 
benefit, which the proceeding of this night 
evinces, affords an ample refutation of the 
base and vulgar calumny that the colored 
people are incapable of refined sentiment or 
grateful feeling. The proceeding of this night 
has a value beyond this. It suggests — may I 
not say, proves, that the best way to ensure the 
peaceful dwelling together of different races, is 
the cordial reciprocation of benefits, not the 
mutual infliction of injuries. Viewed in this 
aspect, the occasion has a value far beyond 
that of the gift. I thank you for both; for the one 
in my own behalf ; for the other in behalf of the 
great cause of Human Freedom and Progress. 

Permit me, sir, before I close, to congratu- 
late you upon the visibly improved condition 
of the colored people of Cincinnati. Debarred 
from the public schools, you have established 
schools of your own ; thrust by prejudice into 
the obscure corners of the edifices in which 
white men offer prayer, you have erected 
churches of your own, in which you find free- 



34 

dom to worship God ; that God who is no 
respecter of persons. Excluded from the wit- 
ness box, you have sought that security which 
the law denies, in a favorable public opin- 
ion propitiated by your good conduct. It 
is but a few weeks since I was a gratified 
spectator in this place, of the exercises 
of the Colored High School, and every 
intelligent countenance and every generous 
aspiration of that youthful band of happy 
scholars, added fresh strength to my desire for 
the advancement of the race to which they 
belonged. And I envy not the man who could 
hear without emotion that the colored people 
of this church, when the storm of a desolating 
calamity fell lately upon a neighboring city and 
half destroyed it, stepped forward to the relief 
of the suffering, with a liberality exceeded by 
that of few, if any, white congregations. 

Such incidents as these remind us of that 
disinterested humanity with which so many 
colored people of Philadelphia, when the Yel- 
low Fever was raging in that city, stood by the 
couches of the sick and the dying, refusing all 
compensation for their inestimable services. 
They may remind us also of that disinterested 
love of country which Jackson eulogized when 
he summoned the colored people of the far 
South, to co-operate, under his standard, with 
their white fellow citizens in repelling the 
invading foe. 



35 

Let me exhort you to go forward as you have 
begun. Be assured that upon yourselves lies 
the chief responsibility of the work of your 
social and civil redemption. And if the white 
oppressor be a fit object of just indignation, 
what execration should pursue that colored 
man, who, by his unworthy vices or dishonest 
actions, gives ground for sweeping charges 
against the race, and holds back his fellows 
from the career of advancement. Let not this 
deep guilt attach to any one of you. Go- 
forward, rather, having perfect faith in your 
own manhood and God's providence. "Add 
to your faith, virtue, and to virtue, knowledge, 
and to knowledge, patience, and to patience, 
temperance, and to temperance, brotherly kind- 
ness, and to brotherly kindness, charity." 

For myself I am ready to renew my pledge— 
and I will venture to speak also in behalf of 
my co-workers, — that we will go straight on, 
without faltering or wavering, until every 
vestige of oppression shall be erased from the 
statute book: — until the sun in all his journey 
from the utmost eastern horizon, through the 
mid-heaven, till he sinks beyond the western' 
mountains into his ocean bed, shall not behold, 
in all our broad and glorious land, the foot 
print of a single slave. 



Note. — The Benediction, at the close of the Presentation, 
was pronounced by the Rev. W. Reynolds ; not by the Rev. 
Mr. Satchell, as erroneously stated on page 11. — Ed. 



