THE 



CONSTITUTION 



AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY 



THE DECLARATION 

OP THE 

NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION 
AT PHILADELPHIA, DECEMEER, 1833, 



THE ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC, 

ISSUED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE SOCIETY, 
IN SEPTEMBER, 1835. 



"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, 
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that 
among these are life, LIBERTY, and the pursuit of happiness." — Declaration 
of American Independence. 



NEW-YORK: 

PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

143 Nassau Street, 

1838. 



fe$.?5"gf*. SY #A 



The American Anti-Slavery Society was formed by a Convention of 
citizens, convened by public notice, from ten different states, at Phi- 
ladelphia, on the 4th of December, 1833. The Constitution of the 
Society, as then adopted, with some trifling amendments, is here 
presented. Also the Declaration of Sentiments, which was agreed 
upon and signed by that Convention. To these are added, an Ad- 
dress to the Public, issued by the Executive Committee, in Septem- 
ber, 1835. These important official documents should be fully 
examined by all who wish to know what are the principles and 
plans of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



PREAMBLE 

Whereas the Most High God "hath made of one blood all nations 
of men to dwell on all the face of the earth," and hath commanded 
them to love their neighbors as themselves; and whereas our national 
existence is based upon this principle, as recognized in the Declaration 
of Independence, "that all men are created equal, and that they are 
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which 
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;" and whereas, after the 
lapse of nearly sixty years, since the faith and honor of the American 
people were pledged to this avowal, before Almighty God, and the 
world, nearly one-sixth part of the nation are held in bondage by their 
fellow-citizens ; and whereas slavery is contrary to the principles of 
natural justice, of our republican form of government, and of the 
Christian religion, and is destructive to the prosperity of the country, 
"while it is endangering the peace, union and liberties of the States ; 
and whereas we believe it the duty and interest of the masters, imme- 
diately to emancipate their slaves, and that no schema of expatriation, 
either voluntary or by compulsion, can remove this great, and increas- 
ing evil ; and whereas we believe that it is practicable, by appeals to 
the consciences, hearts, and interests of the people, to awaken a public 
sentiment throughout the nation, that, will be opposed to the continu- 
ance of slavery in any part of the republic, and by effecting the speedy 
abolition of slavery, prevent a general convulsion ; and whereas we 
believe we owe it to the oppressed, to our fellow-citizens who hold 
slaves, to our whole country, to posterity, and to God, to do all that is 
lawfully in our power to bring about the extinction of slavery, we do 
hereby agree, with a prayerful reliance on the Divine aid, to form our- 
selves into a society, to be governed by the following 

CONSTITUTION. 

Article I. 

This Society shall be called the American Anti-Slavery Society 

Art. II. 

The object of this Society is the entire abolition of slavery in the 
United States. While it admits that each State in which slavery 
exists, has, by the Constitution of the United States, the exclusive right 



4 

to legislate in regard to its abolition in said State, it shall aim to con- 
vince all our fellow-citizens, by arguments addressed to their under- 
standings and consciences, that slaveholding is a heinous crime in the 
sight of God, and that the duty, safety, and best interests of all con- 
cerned, require its immediate abandonment, without expatriation. The 
Society will also endeavour, in a constitutional way, to influence Con- 
gress to put an end to the domestic slave-trade, and to abolish slavery 
m all those portions of our common country which come under its 
control, especially in the District of Columbia, — and likewise to pre- 
vent the extension of it to any state that may be hereafter admitted 
to the Union. 

Art. III. 

This Society shall aim to elevate the character and condition of the 
people of color, by encouraging their intellectual, moral, and religious 
improvement, and by removing public prejudice, that thus they may, 
according to their intellectual and moral worth, share an equality with 
the whites, of civil and religious privileges ; but this Society will 
never, in any way, countenance the oppressed in vindicating their 
rights by resorting to physical force. 

Art. IV. 

Any person who consents to the principles of this Constitution, 
who contributes to the funds of this Society, and is not a slaveholder, 
may be a member of this Society, and shall be entitled to vote at the 
meetings. 

Art. V. 

The officers of this Society shall be a President, Vice Presidents, 
a Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretaries, a Treasurer, and 
a Board of Managers, composed of the above, and not less than ten 
other members of the Society. They shall be annually elected by the 
members of the Society, and five shall constitute a quorum. 

Art. VI. 

The Board of Managers shall annually elect an Executive Com- 
mittee, to consist of not less than five, nor more than twelve members, 
which shall be located in New- York, who shall have power to enact 
their own by-laws, fill any vacancy in their body, and in the offices 
of Secretary and Treasurer, employ agents, determine what compen- 
sation shall be paid to agents, and to the Corresponding Secretaries, 
direct the Treasurer in the application of all moneys, and call special 
meetings of the Society. They shall make arrangements for all meet- 
ings of the Society, make an annual written report of their doings, 
the income, expenditures, and funds of the Society, and shall hold 
stated meetings, and adopt the most energetic measures in their power 
to advance the objects of the Society. 



Art. VII. 

The President shall preside at all meeting of the Society, or in hia 
absence one of the Vice Presidents, or, in their absence, a President 
pro tern. The Corresponding Secretaries shall conduct the correspon- 
dence of the Society. The Recording Secretary shall notify all meet- 
ings of the Society, and of the Executive Committee, and shall keep 
records of the same in separate books. The Treasurer shall collect 
the subscriptions, make payments at the direction of the Executive 
Committee, and present a written and audited account to accompany 
the annual report. 

Art. VIII. 

The annual meeting of the Society shall be held each year at such 
time and place as the Executive Committee may direct, when the ac- 
counts of the Treasurer shall be presented, the annual report read, 
appropriate addresses delivered, the Officers chosen, and such other 
business transacted as shall be deemed expedient. A special meeting 
shall always be held on the Tuesday immediately preceding the second 
Thursday in May, ia the city of New York, at ten o'clock, A. M., 
provided the annual meeting be not held there at that time. 

Art. IX. 

Any Anti-Slavery Society, or association, founded on the same prin- 
ciples, may become auxiliary to this Society, and entitled to be repre- 
sented at its meetings. The Officers of each Auxiliary Society shall 
be ex-officio members of the Parent Institution 

Art. X. 

This Constitution may be amended, at any annual meeting of the 
Society, by a vote of two thirds of the members present, provided the 
amendments proposed have been previously submitted, in writing, to 
the Executive Committee. 

I 



DECLARATION 

Of the Jlnti- Slavery, Convention, assembled at Philadelphia, 
December 4, 1833. 

The Convention, assembled in the city of Philadelphia, to organize 
a National Anti-Slavery Society, promptly seize the opportunity to 
promulgate the following DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS, 
as cherished by them in relation to the enslavement of one-sixth por- 
tiontof the American people. 

More than fifty-seven years have elapsed since a band of patriots 
convened in this place, to devise measures for the deliverance of this 
country from a foreign yoke. The corner stone upon which they 
founded the Temple of Freedom was broadly this — "that all men are 
created equal ; and they are endowed by their Creator, with certain 
inalienable rights ; that among these are are life, LIBERTY, and the 
pursuit of happiness." At the sound of their trumpet-call three mil- 
lions of people rose up as from the sleep of death, and rushed to the 
strife of blood ; deeming it more glorious to die instantly as freeman, 
than desirable to live one hour as slaves. They were few in number — 
poor in resources ; but the honest conviction that Truth, Justice and 
Right, were on their side, made them invincible. 

We have met together for the achievement of an enterprise, without 
which that of our fathers is incomplete ; and which, for its magnitude, 
solemnity, and probable results upon the destiny of the w r orld, as far 
transcends theirs as moral truth does physical force. 

In purity of motive, in earnestness of zeal, in decision of purpose, 
in intrepidity of action, in steadfastness of faith, in sincerity of spirit, 
we would not be inferior to them. 

Their principles led them to wage war against their oppressors, and 
to spill human blood like water, in order to be free. Oars forbid the 
doing of evil that good may come, and lead us to reject, and to entreat 
the oppressed to reject, the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance 
from bondage; relying solely upon those which are spiritual, and 
mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds. 

Their measures were physical resistance — the marshalling in arms — 
the hostile array — the mortal encounter. Ours shall be such as only 
the opposition of moral purity to moral corruption — the destruction of 
error by the potency of truth — the overthrow of prejudice by the power 
of love — and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance. 

Their grievances, great as they were, w r ere trifling in comparison 
with the wrongs and sufferings of those for whom we plead. Our 
fathers were never slaves — never bought and sold like cattle — never 
shut out from the light of knowledge and religion — never subjected to 
the lash of brutal task-masters. 

But those for whose emancipation we are striving — constituting at 
the present time at least one-sixth part of our countrymen, — aro recog- 
nized by the law, and treated by their fellow beings, as marketable 
commodities, as goods and chattels, as brute beasts ; are plundered 
daily of the fruits of their toil without redress ; really enjoying no con- 
stitutional nor legal protection from licentious and murderous outrages 



upon their persons ; are ruthlessly torn asunder — the tender babe from 
the arms of its frantic mother — the heart-broken wife from her weep- 
ing husband — at the caprice or pleasure of irresponsible tyrants. For 
the crime of having a dark complexion, they suffer the pang3 of 
hunger, the infliction of stripes, and the ignominy of brutal servitude. 
They are kept in heathenish darkness by laws expressly enacted to 
make their instruction a criminal offence. 

These are the prominent circumstances in the condition of more than 
two millions of our people, the proof of which may be found in thou- 
sands of indisputable facts, and in the laws of the slaveholding states. 

Hence we maintain, — that in view of the civil and religious privi- 
leges of this nation, the guilt of its oppression is unequalled by any 
other on the face of the earth; and, therefore, 

That it is bound to repent instantly, to undo the heavy burden, to 
break every yoke, and to let the oppressed go free. 

We further maintain, — that no man has a right to enslave or im- 
brute his brother — to hold or acknowledge him, for one moment, as a 
piece of merchandise — to keep back his hire by fraud — or to brutalize 
his mind by denying him the means of intellectual, social, and moral 
improvement. 

The right to enjoy liberty is inalienable. To invade it, is to usurp 
the prerogative of Jehovah. Every man has a right to his own body — 
to the products of his own labor — to the protection of law, and to the 
common advantages of society. It is piracy to buy or steal a native 
African, and subject him to servitude. Surely the sin is as great to 
enslave an American as an African. 

Therefore we believe and affirm — That there is no difference, in 
principle, between the African slave trade and American slavery : 

That every American citizen who retains a human being in in- 
voluntary bondage as his property, is [according to scripture*] a man 
stealer : 

That the slaves ought instantly to be set free, and brought under the 
protection of law : 

That if they had lived from the time of Pharoah down to the present 
period, and had been entailed through successive generations, their 
right to be free could never have been alienated, but their claims would 
have constantly risen in solemnity : 

That all those laws which are now in force, admitting the right of 
slavery, are therefore before God utterly null and void ; being an auda- 
cious usurpation of the Divine prerogative, a daring infringement on 
the law of nature, a base overthrow of the very foundations of the social 
compact, a complete extinction of all the relations, endearments, and 
obligations of mankind, and a presumptuous transgression of all the 
holy commandments — and that therefore they ought instantly to be 
abrogated. 

We further believe and affirm — That all persons of color who possess 
the qualifications which are demanded of others, ought to be admitted 
forthwith to the enjoyment of the same privileges, and the exercise of 
trie same prerogatives, as others ; and that the paths of preferment, of 

* Ex. xjd. 16. 



8 

Wealth, and of intelligence, should be opened as widely to them as to 
persons of a white complexion. 

We maintain that no compensation should be given to the planters 
emancipating their slaves, 

Because it would be a surrender of the great fundamental principle, 
that man cannot hold property in man ; 

Because slavery is a crime, and therefore is not an article 
TO BE sold ; 

Because the holders of slaves are not the just proprietors of what 
they claim ; freeing the slaves is not depiiving them of property, but 
restoring it to its rightful owners ; it is not wronging the master, but 
righting the slave — restoring him to himself; 

Because immediate and general emancipation would only destroy 
nominal, not real property ; it Avould not amputate a limb or break a 
bone of the slaves, but by infusing motives into their breasts, would 
make them doubly valuable to the masters as free laborers ; and 

Because, if compensation is to be given at all, it should be given to 
the outraged and guiltless slaves, and not to those who have plundered 
and abused them. 

We regard as delusive, cruel, and dangerous, any scheme of expa- 
triation which pretends to aid, either directly or indirectly, in the 
emancipation of the slaves, or to be a substitute fo r the immediate and 
total abolition of slavery. 

We fully and unanimously recognize the sovereignty of each state, 
to legislate exclusively on the subject of the slavery which is tolerated 
within its limits ; we concede that Congress, under the present national 
compact, has no right to interfere with any of the slave states, in rela- 
tion to this momentous subject : 

But we maintain that Congress has a right, and is solemnly bound, 
to suppress the domestic slave trade between the several states, and to 
abolish slavery in those portions of our territory which the Constitu- 
tion has placed under its exclusive jurisdiction. 

We also maintain that there are, at the present time, the highest 
obligations resting upon the people of the free states, to remove slavery 
by moral and political action, as prescribed in the Constitution of the 
United States. They are now living under a pledge of their tremen- 
dous physical force, to fasten the galling fetters of tyranny upon the 
limbs of millions in the southern states ; they are liable to be called at 
any moment to suppress a general insurrection of the slaves ; they 
authorize the slave owner to vote on three-fifths of his slaves as pro- 
perty, and thus enable him to perpetuate his oppression; they support 
a standing army at the south for its protection ; and they seize the 
slave who has escaped into their territories, and send him back to be 
tortured by an enraged master or a brutal driver. This relation to 
slavery is criminal and full of danger : it must be broken up. 

These are our views and principles — these our designs and mea- 
sures. With entire confidence in the overruling justice of God, we 
plant ourselves upon the Declaration of our Independence and the 
truths of divine revelation as upon the Everlasting Rock. 

We shall organize Anti-Slavery Societies, if possible, in every city, 
town and village, in our land. 



9 

We shall send forth agents to lift up the voice of remonstrance, ** 
warning, of entreaty, and rebuke. 

We shall circulate, unsparingly nnd extensively, anti-slavdy trccts 
and periodicals. 

We Siiall enlist the pulpit and the press in the cause of the sunerhig 
and the dumb. 

We shall aim at a purification of the churches from all participation 
in the guilt of slavery. 

AVe shall encourage the labor of freemen rather than that of slaves, 
by giving a preference to their productions : and 

We shall spare no exertions nor means to bring the whole nation 
to speedy repentance. 

Our trust for victory is solely in God. We may be personally de- 
feated, but our principles never. Truth, Justice, Reason, Hu- 
manity, must and will gloriously triumph. Already a host is coming 
up to the help of the Lord against the mighty, and the prospect before 
us is full of encourasement. 

Submitting this DECLARATION to the candid examination of the 
people of this country, and of the friends of liberty throughout the 
world, we hereby affix our signatures to it ; pledging ourselves that, 
under the guidance and by the help of Almighty God we will do all 
that in us lies, consistent^ with this Declaration of our principles, to 
overthrow the most execrable system of slavery that has ever been 
witnessed upon earth — to deliver our land from its deadliest curse — to 
wipe out the foulest stain which rests npon our national escutcheon — 
and to secure to the colored population of the United States all the 
rights and privileges which belong to them as men, and as Americans 
— come what may to our persons, our interests, or our reputation^— 
whether we live to witness the triumph of liberty, justice, and 
humanity, or perish untimely as martyrs in this great, benevolent, 
and holy cause. 

Done at Philadelphia, the sixth day of December, A. D. 1833. 



CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
PREAMBLE. 

Whereas the Most High God " hath made of one blood all nations 
of men to dwell on all the face of the earth," and hath commanded 
them to love their neighbors as themselves ; and v/hereas our national 
existence is based upon this principle, as recognized in the Declaration 
of Independence, "that all men are created equal, and that they 
are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among 
which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness ;" and whereas, 
after the lapse of nearly sixty years, since the faith and honor of the 
American people were pledged to this avowal, before Almighty Got\ 
and the world, nearly one-sixth part of the nation are held in bouda-* 



10 



ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC. 

In behalf of the American Anti-Slavery Society, we solicit the candid 
attention of the public to the following declaration of our principles and 
objects. Were the charges which are brought against us made only 
by individuals who are interested in the continuance of Slavery, and by 
such as are influenced solely by unworthy motives, this address would 
be unnecessary ; but there are those who merit and possess our esteem, 
who would not voluntarily do us injustice, and who have be*gj led by 
gross misrepresentations to believe that we are pursuing measures at 
variance not only with the constitutional rights of the South, but with 
the precepts of humanity and religion. To such we offer the following 
explanations and assurances. 

1st. We hold that Congress has no more right to abolish slavery m 
the Southern States than in the French West India Islands. Of 
course we desire no national legislation on the subject. 

2d. We hold that Slavery can only be lawfully abolished by the Legisla- 
tures of the several states in which it prevails, and that the exercise of any 
other than moral influence, to induce such abolition, is unconstitutional. 

3d. We believe that Congress has the same right to abolish Slavery 
in the District of Columbia, that the State governments have within 
their respective jurisdictions, and that it is their duty to efface so foul 
a blot from the national escutcheon. 

4th. We believe that American citizens have the right to express 
and publish their opinions of the Constitutions, Laws, and Institutions 
of any and every State and Nation under Heaven ; and we mean 
never to surrender the liberty of speech, of the press, or of conscience — 
blessings we have inherited from our fathers, and which we intend, as 
far as we are able, to transmit unimpaired to our children. 

5th. We have uniformly deprecated all forcible attempts on the part of 
the Slaves to recover their liberty. And wexs it in our power to address 
them, we would exhort them to observe a quiet and peaceful de- 
meanor, and would assure them that no insurrectionary movement on 
their part, would receive from us the slightest aid or countenance. 

6th. We would deplore any servile insurrection, both on account of 
the calamities which would attend it, and on account of the occasion 
which it might furnish of increased severity and oppression. 



11 

7th. We are charged with sending incendiary publications to tne 
South. If by the term incendiary is meant publications containing 
arguments and facts to prove Slavery to be a moral and political evil, 
and that duty and policy require its immediate abolition, the charge is 
true. But if this term is used to imply publications encouraging insur- 
rection, and designed to excite the Slaves to break their fetters, the 
charge is utterly and unequivocally false. We beg our fellow-citizens 
to notice, that this charge is made without proof, and by many who 
confess that they have never read our publications, and that those who 
make it, offer to the public no evidence from our writings in support of it. 

8th. We are accused of sending our publications to the Slaves, and 
it is asserted that their tendency is to excite insurrections. Both 
the charges are false. These publications are not intended for the 
Slaves ; and were they able to read them, they would find in them no 
encouragement to insurrection. 

9th. We are accused of employing Agents in the Slave States to 
distribute our publications. We have never had one such Agent. 
We have sent no packages of our papers to any person in those States 
for distribution, except to five respectable resident citizens, at their 
own request. But we have sent, by mail, single papers addressed to 
public officers, editors of newspapers, clergymen, and others. If, there- 
fore, our object is to excite the Slaves to insurrection, the Masters 
are our Agents ! 

10th. We believe Slavery to be sinful, injurious to this, and to every 
other countiy in which it prevails ; we believe immediate emancipation 
to be the duty of every slaveholder, and that the immediate abolition 
of slavery, by those who have the right to abolish it, would be safe and 
wise. These opinions we have freely expressed, and we certainly 
have no intention to refrain from expressing them in future, and urging 
them upon the consciences and hearts of our fellow- citizens who hold" 
slaves or apologize for slavery. 

11th. We believe that the education of the poor is required by duty, 
and by a regard for the permanancy of our republican institutions. 
There are thousands and tens of thousands of our fellow-citizens, 
even in the free States, sunk in abject poverty, and who on account of 
their complexion are virtually kept in ignorance, and whose instruction 
in certain cases is actually prohibited by law ! We are anxious to 
protect the rights, and to promote the virtue and happiness of the colored 
portion of our population, and on this account we have been charged 
with a design to encourage intermarriages between the whites aod 



12 

blacks. This charge has been repeatedly, and is now again denied ; 
while we repeat that the tendency of our sentiments is to put an end 
to the criminal amalgamation that prevails wherever slavery exists. 

12th. We are accused of acts that tend to a dissolution of the Union, 
and even of wishing to dissolve it. We have never "calculated the 
value of the Union," because we believed it to be inestimable; and 
that the abolition of slavery will remove the chief danger of its dissolu- 
tion ; and one of the many reasons why we cherish, and will endeavor 
to preserve the constitution, is, that it restrains Congress from making 
any law "abridging the freedom of speech or of the press." 

Such, fellow-citizens, are our principles. Are they unworthy of 
Republicans and of Christians ? Or are they in truth so atrocious, 
that in order to prevent their diffusion, you are yourselves willing to 
surrender, at the dictation of others, the invaluable privilege of free 
discussion, the very birthright of Americans? "Will you, in order that 
the abominations of slavery may be concealed from public view, and 
that the capital of your Republic may continue to be, as it now is, 
under the sanction of Congress, the great slave mart of the American 
continent, consent that the general government in acknowledged 
defiance of the Constitution and laws, shall appoint, throughout the 
length and breadth of your land, ten thousand censors of the press, 
each of whom shall have the right to inspect every document you may 
commit to the Post Office, and to suppress every pamphlet and news- 
paper, whether religious or political, which in his sovereign pleasure ho 
may adjudge to contain an incendiary article? Surely we need not 
remind you, that if you submit to such an encroachment on your liber- 
ties, the days of our Republic are numbered, and that although aboli- 
tionists may be the first, they will not be the last victims offered at the 
shrine of arbitrary power. 

Arthur Tappan, President. 

John Rankin, Treasurer. 

William Jay, Sec'ry of Foreign Correspondence, 

Elizur Wright, Jr. Sec'ry of Domes. Cor. 

Abraham L. Cox, M. D., Recording Sec'ry. 

Lewis Tappan, ") 

Joshua Leavitt, Members of 

Samuel E. Cornish, V the 

Simeon S. Joceltn, E-xecutive Committee, 

Theodore S. Wright. 
New York, September 3d, 1835. 



