Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/informationconceOOIond 






};z^y ::^/<>^^-^-^^Sr 



INFORMATION 



CONCEnNIN& THE 



SLAVE-TRADE. 



fe . nSl^\-7i fio.C 



t 

CONTENTS, 



^♦- 



Report of the Committee Page 1 

Information on the French Slave-trade 4 

on the Spanish Slave-trade SO 

.......... on the Portuguese Slave-trade 24 

on the Dutch Slave-trade 28 

on the Trade on the East Coast of Africa ........ 35 

Address of the House of Commons to the King 41 

Minute of the Committee 4(j 

Account of Subscriptions , Hj, 



iNFonMATioN Concerning the SjL a fe-Trade, printed 
hy order of a Committee acting under the direction 

, of the ^ Yearly Meeting of the religious Society of 
Friends, to aid in p7'omoting the total abolition 
of that iniquitous traffic. 



YEARLY MEETING, 1821. 

The folloio'ing Report has heen hro'ught in and read; and 
this Me^ting^ continuing to feel a lively interest in the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade, desires the Meeting for Sufferings to print 
and circulate the same in the respective Quarterly Meetings, 
together loith such other information as the Committee of thai 
Meeting on the subject, may think it desirable to communicate. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE. 

*' Since the appointment of this Committee, much 
distressing information has been received of the progress 
made in the prosecution of the barbarous traffic in the 
lives and liberties of our fellow-creatures on the coast 
of Africa, not only by the subjects of Portugal, but also 
by those of France, Spain, and Holland ; and though, by 
the laws of these latter countries, the infamous trade has 
been formally abolished, yet, for want of proper exer- 
tions by their respective governments, especially by 
that of France, it is still carried on ; and with aggra- 
vated horrors, on account of the concealment which, in 
many instances, those who pursue it are induced to 
practise. In the mean time, the government of this 
country is using its influence in foreign courts, to render 
the abolition general and effectual. It is however 



REPORT. 



believed, that the public mind in some of the principal 
nations on the continent is not sufficiently enlightened 
on the subject, or sufficiently aware of the horrible 
nature of the Slave-trade ; and it therefore still appears 
to the Committee, tliat one means by which Friends 
might very consistently render essential assistance in 
the great cause of tlie total abolition of the Slave- 
trade, would be to aid in promoting translations, 
into the French, Spanish, Dutch, and Portuguese 
languages, of suitable tracts describing the nature 
of tlie trade, pay for the printing of the same, and 
take such measures as may appear likely to promote 
their circulation." 

" The African Institution has facilities of obtaining 
information on the trade, and of devising means for 
detecting and exposing its enormities, far beyond 
those which this Committee is likely* to possess; and 
as the Committee is informed, that, although the 
funds of that institution do not at present amount 
to £.100, the managers of it have sanctioned the trans- 
lating into the Portuguese language, of a pamphlet, 
which is an abstract of Thomas Clarkson's history of the 
abolition, and printing 1000 copies of the same ; and 
the printing of 1000 copies of another pamphlet, written 
principally by William Wilberforce, exposing the nature 
of the trade ; the Committee has agreed to present 
them with one hundred pounds, to be ap})hed ex- 
clusively towards defraying the expense of the above- 
mentioned two pamphlets. 

A sub-committee of the African Institution is now 
publishing an abstract from the papers lately laid 
upon the taljile of the House of Commons, wliich 



nEi'oRT. 



develope great enormities still practise^ in Africa 
and upon the persons of its inhabitants, by the sub* 
jects of different European powers: (so much of 
these documents as relates to the several countries 
implicated, being translated into their respective lan- 
guages : ) in connexion with w hich abstract, a pamphlet 
is about to be printed, as well in English as in the 
languages above alluded to, namely, French, Spanish, 
Portuguese, and Dutch, adapted to the present cir- 
cumstances of this iniquitous trade. And it is ap- 
prehended by the Committee, that if the contents 
of these publications should, on examination, be ap- 
proved by it, some pecuniary aid towards the expense 
of printing and circulating them will be a suitable ap- 
propriation of a further portion of the money intrusted 
to its care." 

" The Committee hope that, when these pamphlets 
are published, they may be able to print cheap 
editions, or extracts from them, for their own circu- 
lation on the continent, through such channels as 
may appear proper and safe ; but the existing re- 
strictions on the press in France, render it difficult 
widely to disseminate, in that country, any accounts 
of the present state of the French slave- trade." 

" It is the design of the Committee to print some 
extracts from the information contained in the papers 
already alluded to, and transmit them to Friends in 
the country, in the course of the present summer." ^ 

London, the \Uh of 5th Month, 1821. 



In conformity with the last paragraph of the foregoing Report, 
the Comnuttee proceed to furnish the Societi/ iviih the information con- 
tained in the following Extracts*. 

FRANCE. 

*'' It appears certain that^ in the year 1820, the Frcncli slave-trade 
had swelled to a more enormous extent than at any former period. 
During the first six or seven months of that year, the coast of Africa- 
is described as having actually swarmed with French slave-ships. A 
distinguished officer of the British navy, who was himself an eye- 
witness of the fact, writing on the subject with deliberation, and after 
his attention had been called to a careful recollection of what he had 
seen, uses this remarkable expression : ' The number of French slave- 
ships now on the coast is something incredible/ The naval officers on 
that station had examined between twenty and thirty vessels trading 
for slaves on the coast, which were ascertained to be Fj-encli ; and 
one of those officers afterwards found, in the harbour of the Havannah, 
a still greater number of vessels bearing the French flag, which either 
had cargoes of slaves on board, brought thither for sale, or were fitting 
out for fresh slave-voyages, t" 

*' This view of the extent of the French slave-trade on the coast of 
Africa during the past year, is confirmed by Sir Charles Mac Carthy, 
the governor of Sierra Leone, who returned last 3^car to England; 
and who states, that at the time of his leaving that colony in July 
last, he had received unquestionable information, that no fewer than- 
five vessels, bearing the French flag, were then engaged in procuring 
slaves at the Gallinas, a place situated about 100 miles to the south 
of Sierra Leone." 

''If these statements are correct, and the authority on ^^•hich they 
rest, seems to leave no doubt upon the subject, then it will follow, 
that, during the first six or seven months of the last year, from fifty 
to sixty vessels, bearing the French flag, were actually seen engaged 
in the slave-trade. But as it cannot be supposed, considering the 



■ Chiefly from the Fifteenth Report of the African Institution, aud the 
Supplement to that report. 

•f Report, page 12. 



FRANCE. 5 

vast extent of the African cOast, and of the ocean which extends 
thence to thf West. Indies, that all the vessels so employed could have 
been niet by oiir cruisers, or have come under the observation of 
Governor MacCarthy's informant, it would seem to be no more than 
a fair inference from the facts which have been adduced, that the 
French slave-trade must have grown to an unprecedented magnitude 
during the past year. And yet it is reanarkable, that so uninformed 
docs the French government appear to have been of the fact, that, in 
the month of June last, the minister of the marine assured the legisla- 
ture, and reiterated that assurance about the same time to the British 
government, that the French slave-trade was at length extingtoshed.'' 

" But it is not necessary to rest this inference on general state- 
mcNts, however conclusive. Particular confirmatory details might 
easily be produced." - 

"Among the French slave-ships met by our cruisers on the coast .of 
Africa, most of which were suffered to pass unmolested, two were 
supposed to have committed acts which justified their detention. 
Their names were La Marie and La Catharine. The slaves whicli 
they had on board were landed at Sierra Lepne, and the vessels sent" 
to Senegal, to be disposed of by the French authorities there." 

" A third case merits a more detailed exposition. On the 4th of 
March, 1820, after a long chase, a vessel was boarded by the boats 
of his majesty's ship Tartar, commanded by Sir George Collier, which 

proved to be La Jeune Estelle, of Martinique, M. master. 

On being boarded, he declared that he had been plundered of his 
slaves, and that none remained on board. His agitation and alarm, 
however, excited suspicion, and led to an examination of the vessel's 
hold. During this examination, a sailor who struck a task, which' 
was tightly closed up, heard a faint voice issue from it, as of a crea- 
ture expiring. The cask was immediately opened, when two girls, of 
about twelve or fourteen years of age, in the last stage of suffocation, 
were found to be enclosed in it, and by this providential interposition 
were pjobably rescued from a miserable death." 

" These girls, when brought on the deck of the Tartar, were re- 
cognised by a person on board, who had been taken prisoner in ano- 
ther slave-ship, as having been the property of the cajitain of a schooner 
bclunging to New York. An investigation having taken place, it 
a]>peart;d that this American contrabandist had died at a place on the 



coast called Trade Town, leaving behind him fourteen slaves, of 
whom these two girls formed a part ; and that, after his death, the 
master of the vessel had landed his crew, armed with swords and 
pistols, and carried these fourteen slaves on board thb Jeune Estelle. 
Sir George Collier, conceiving that the other twelve slaves, ^who had 
been procured by this piratical act, might still be secreted in that 
Vessel, ordered a fresh search. The result was, that a Negro man^ 
not however one of the twelve, was rescued from death. A platform 
of loose boards had been raised on the water-casks of the vessel, so as 
to form -an entre-pont, or between-decks, of twenty-three inches in 
height, which was the only space allotted for the accommodation of 

this unfortunate cargo of human beings, v/hom M. • intended 

to procure and carry from the coast. Beneath this platform, one of 
the boards i-esting on his body, jammed between two water-casks, 
Appeared the above wretched individual, whom it was a mattei" of 
astonishment to find alive. Sir George Collier was inclined to re- 
move him on board the Tartar, as he had done the two girls ; but 
M. • — ■ " • ■ having proved that the poor African had been bought - . 
by him for eight dollars'-worth of brandy and iron. Sir George did 
not feel himself authorised to do so ; although, had the vessel been 
capable of beating up to Senegal, he would have sent her thither for 
judgment, aa he had done the two former ships." 

" With respect to the other twelve slaves taken bj' ' force froTn .. 
Trade Town, no distinct information could be obtained beyond tjie 

assertion of M. -^ — , that he had been plundered of tliem by a 

Spanish pirate. But it was recollected, with horror, by the officer* 
of the Tartar, that when they first began the chase of La Jeunc 
Estelle, they had seen several casks floating past them, in which they 
now suspected that these ■wretched beings might have been enclosed, 
having been thrown orerboard by this man, to elude the detection of his 
piratical proceedings. It was now impossible, however, to ascertain 
tlie fact, as the chase had led them many leagues to leeward ; and 
even after thej'' had consumed the time which would have been ne- 
cessary, by beating to windward, to reach the place where the chase 
commenced, there were many chances againsti their again seeing the 
casks, and not the slightest probability that any of the slaves enclosed 
in them, if they were so enclosed, would be found still alive." 

" h was distinctly afhrmed by the minister of the French marine, 



FRANCE. 7 

in a speech made to tlic Chamber of Deputies in the month<)f Juije 
last, that the slave-trade had then ceased at Senegal; yet, on the 
4th of October last, a vessel was found by an officer of the customs, 
to have made, in the night-time, the harbour of St. John's in Antigua, 
which vessel proved to be a French brig called La Louise, of the 
burden of 120 tons, having on board 128 slaves, bound from Senegal 
to Guadaloupc, for which island Antigua was mistaken. Her 
Negroes weise in a miserable condition when landed ; but tfiey soon 
jccovcred, when taken care of-and well fed and clothed. They were 
generally young, chiefly females, two of whom had infants at the 
bi'cast; and another, after being brought on shore, was delivered erf 
still-born twins. This ship was consigned to two slave-factors of 
Guadaloupe, and has been condemned at Antigua; but the diiecfcors 
have not learned what were the specific grounds of her condemn- 
ation." 

" As a further proof that the statement of tlie cessation of \he 
French slave-trade at Senegal and its neighbourhood is not correct, 
it may be added, that when Governor MacCarthy visited Bathurst, 
in the- river Gambia, in the month of August last, in his way to 
Europe, he learnt, upon undoubted authority, that the slave-trade 
was at that time carried on with great activity by various merchants 
both of Senegal and Goi'ee. These persons were pointed out to 
iiim ; and it was added, that they had established agents for this pur- 
pose at a small village called Albreda, in the river Gambia, about 40 
miles above its mouth. Albreda was formerly a French factory de- 
pendant on Goree. By the treaty of 1783, it will be seen that 
France relinquished all right to its occupation. Indeed, by the terms 
of that treaty, which has not since undergone any modification, it 
clearly appears that the river Gambia was as effectually and un- 
reservedly ceded to Great Britain, as the river Senegal was to 
France*." 

" The vast extent to which the slave-trade on the west coast of 
Africa continues to be carried on, is further proved by accounts 
received from the river Bonny, dated in Jul}'^ and August, in the last 
3-ear ; from which it appears, that from Maixh to July in that yeai", 



* .Repori, pagii 14— -19. 



there had usually been in the Bonny from nine to sixteen slaving 
vessels, of all descriptions, at the same time, each capable of carrying 
from 300 to 700 slaves ; and that two of these vessels, which were 
there in March, and had then sailed to the West Indies, had returned 
in July, and were engaged in their second voyage. During the 
above period of five or six months, 120 sail of French, iSpanish, and 
Portuguese vessels had visited the river Bonny, for the purpose of 
procuring slaves; in consequence of which, the preparation of palm- 
oil is said to have been totally neglected by the natives." 

" An account Feceived from a gentleman on board the Cyane, an 
American sloop of war, which was sent to cruise on the coast of 
Africa, for the purpose of suppressing the American slave-trade, 
dated in April last, states, that since passing the river Sherbro, that 
vessel had detained ten slave-ships, four of which were sent in for 
adjudication; but the others, being well covered by fabricated papers, 
were given up. The number of vessels engaged in this inhuman 
traffic, the writer says, was incredible : he supj)osed that not fewer 
than 200 sail were on the coast at the date of his letter, all of them 
fast sailers, well manned and armed, and many of them owned by 
Americans, though under foreign flags. The Cyane had been con- 
stantly chasing, night aed day, since her arrival upon the coast, and 
sometimes had several slave-ships in sight at the same time*." 



The folhtving Extracts from two Letters, writteii 07i otie of the 
West India islands, describe the shameless manner in which the traffic 
in slaves is carried on there. 

" Guadaloupe, 13th December, 1820. 
''Last September, an Americari pilot-boat-built schooner, landed 
sixty Africans at Rambouillette, Port Louis. They were debarked by 
the same person as before-mentioned. It appears that this schooner 
met some interruption on the coast, having lost her cables and 
anchors there, and was obliged to come away without a fall cargo ; 
besides, she brought back a part of the murdering cargo carried to 



Report, pages 24, 25. 



ij<p 



FRANCE. 9 

Africa to barter for the natives^ which was also landed at Ram- 
bouillette. / saw these articles : they consist of muskets, cutlasses, 
kegs of gunpowder, iron pots, bolts with padlocks, flints, &c. 

" It is said that Messrs. Segond, Ferrand, and Ranee, are the 
interested parties of this adventure. 

" The planters of St. Anne equipped a schooner, which was built 
at St. Rose, sent her to Africa, and succeeded in a return-cargo of 
Africans. A ship which was expected here, was captured by a pri- 
vateer of South Amei^ica, when near Deseada, situate to the wind- 
ward of this island, with 330 slaves on board. She was conducted 
to the neighbourhood of St. Thomas, among the Keys or small islands 
there, and her cargo was disposed of at forty dollars per head. This 
ship is named the f roteus. I saw her lying at Pointe-a-Pitre, she 
having been given up to her captain after the cargo was disposed of. 
I am informed that she is consigned to Mons. Rezel. 

" I have information that another privateer carried a parcel of 
Africans to Martinique, where^ she sold them at eighty-five dollars 
per head. Sixty Africans, which are a part of them, were sent to 
Monsieur Delisle, of Pointe-a-Pitre, to be disposed of 

" On the 20th of October, a sale of new Negroes took place at a little 
bourg called Cozier, situated immediately above the Entrance of the 
harbour of Pointe-a-Pitre. These are supposed to be the cargo of 
the Thetis, which vessel entered Pointe-a-Pitre, a few days preced- 
ing the sale, in ballast. 

" All the vessels mentioned to you before, which were consigned 
to, or owned by, Messrs. Segond, were again equipped and sent to 
Africa in February last, or soon after. The Thetis mentioned 
above is, I believe, one of those of which you were then informed. 
All the others have again made the same successful voyage as the 
Thetis, except the brig Fox, which has not yet returned. On the 
29th following, another cargo of 209 Africans, (there being 217 
taken on board in Africa, eight, having died,) landed, from the ship 
L'Adele Aimee, Captain Bouffier, was sold at St. Fran^-ois : they 
were disposed of at about 3000 livres, or 150^. currency, per head, 
on an average 'calculation. The arrival of L'Adele Aimee at 
Pointe-a-Pitie, after being absent for several months on the well- 
known intention- of bringing slaves, preceded the sale. This is one 



10 FRANCE. 

of Messrs. Segond's vessels. On the 3d of November, the schooner, 
L'Atalante, Captain Boulemere, arrived at Pointe-a-Pitre. She also 
touched at St. Francois; but the owners, (as she belongs to the same 
house) having had so recent a sale as the cargo of L'Adele Aimee at 
St. Frau(jois, and it l)eing inconvenient for the planters who reside 
on what is called tlie Gaudaloupe shore to go over to the bays at 
Grand Terre, they determined to choose St. Marie Capisterre to be 
- the mart for the cargo of L'iVtalante. At this place, therefore, a 
landing of her cargo took place, the night before the day on which 
she entered Pointe-a-Pitre ; and the sale took place the Sunday fol- 
owing. She took in at the coast 2i0, thirteen whereof died: I97 
were therefore safely landed. On the 18th following, the schooner 
L'Eugenie, Captain Cramponniere, arrived at Pointe-a-Pitre, having 
also landed her cargo at Capisterre. She was immediately advertised 
for sale, and was accordingly sold the 22d following. I do not know 
the number she landed, but she is of the same size as L'Atalante. 

" There can be nothing else which prevents the seizure of these 
vessels and their cargoes, but a good understanding with the col- 
lector and other officers of the custom-house, or, as some scruple not 
to allege, the private instructions which the governor has received to 
favour this criminal traffic. St. Marie is so nearly situated to 
Pointe-a-Pitre, that I am induced to attribute the not seizing these 
two last-mentibned vessels to the foregoing reasons. I knew when 
L'Atalante touched at St. Fran^^'ois, and that her cargo was intended 
to be landed at St. Marie's ; and could I liave calculated on the sup- 
port of the government of this island, I could liave had that vessel 
with her cargo of slaves confiscated. But of what avail would my 
denunciation be ? Instead of being attended to, it would prove very 
nuisihle to my commercial intt'rcsts here, whilst detection of my in- 
terference would most assuredly subject me to assassination : at all 
events, if my life cscapctl, I should at least be banished from the 
countrjr never to return; which ciicumstance would be Tery de- 
struclive to my present prospects, without the chance of my being 
able to effect the desired liberation of the captives so unjustly 
dragged from their houses, in defiance of the laws of God, and of the 
deci'ees of that nation whose subjects are now so successfully eniployed 
in introducinp: ijito this island thousands of Africans. 



I'RANCE. ~ 11 

" L'Atalanle took in her cargo at Bouny. When she quittotl it, 
she left there the brig Fox in a leaky slate, having a part of her cargo 
on board. A sloop also took in her cargo at Bonny when L'Atalante 
was thei-e She (the sloop) arrived also at St. Frangois with 100 
slaves, and effected her landing there. As soon as the vessels arrive 
at Pointe-a^Pitre they are sold. L'Adele Aimee, L'Atalante, and 
L'Eugenie, no sooner arrived there than they were sold, after being 
advertised in hand-bills. 

" I enclose herein extracts from Le Journal Politique et Com- 
mercial of Pointe-a-Pitre, wherein you will discover the time of their 
arrival. A hand-bill also enclosed will show how soon L'Eugenie 
was sold after her arrival : so it was with the others. I need not 
incur expense of postage in enclosing to you all the hand-bills of the 
other vesels; one will suffice, no doubt, to go in corroboration of my 
statement*.'* 

" The reason that the vessels are all put up for sale immediately 
after their arrival, and that the name of Messrs. Segond are so often 
mentioned, is, that they are the ostensible persons combined with 
Messrs. Ranee and Co., and are the chiefs of a kind of association or 
company of slave-traders here. It appears that each expedition is 
fitted out on the account and risk of a certain number of aelmmalrcs. 
Each subscribes what he is inclined to risk, and shares in propoitioji 
to the amount of his advances. The business is then conducted by 
the chiefs. The vessel therefore being estimated at a certain price 
when taken into the trade, is immediately sold at auction, on her 
arrival, to the highest bidder. When I contemplate the means thus 
acquired to carry on this barbarous and unchristian-like commerce, I 
need not wonder at its continuance, because, on every expedition, a 
new set of actionnaires can be easily found, and thus the fund is in- 
exhaustible. 



* The followhigis a copy of the hand-bill: — " Vente ruBLiauE. Mer- 
credi prochaiii, 22 du courant, il sera precede, devant le magazin de M3I. 
Victer Hancd et Co., all heures du matin, a la vente publique de la 
Gol'ktte Eugenie, telle qu'elle se poursuit et<;omporte, sans aucune reclama- 
tion quekonque. Les conditions de la vente sont de payer comptant, et ce, 
fivant la mise en possession de I'adjudicataire, et en cas d'inexe'cution, la 
Ooelette sera recrie'e ie lendeniain a sa folle enchere. 

^ " PoiiUe-ii-Pitre, Guadaloupe, le 18 Novembre, 1820." 



12 FRANCE. 

" Very early on the morning of 7th November^ about ten waiters 
Cdouaniers) belonging to Pointe-a-Pitre landed at that town. It ap- 
pears that they were sent, during the night before, to the north of La 
Riviere Sallee, under pretence of visiting the different bays situated 
in that part of the island, whilst Messrs. Segond were afforded an 
opportunity of landing Africans in the very town of Pointe-a-Pitre; 
because, on the night of the 6th of the same month, when the waiters 
were absent, they landed sixty of the unfortunate captives in the 
town aforesaid. They are, no doubt, the remainder of the cargo of 
L'Atalante. On the evenings of the 18th to 20th November, the 
custom-house officers were at the north entrance of La Riviere 
Sallee, embarrassing small fishing and passage-boats. One would 
suppose that those officers were doing their duty ; but no — it was to 
allow Messrs. Segond an opportunity of landing the remainder of 
L'Eugenie's cargo from St. Maiie Capisteire through the port of 
Pointe-a-Pitre, which opens to the south. This appearance seems 
supported by the real fact; because, on the 20th, a St. Marie's sloop- 
boat, (well known as belonging to St. Marie,) arrived. She went 
near, Messrs. Segond's wharf, when a pistol was fired as a signal of 
debarkation; whereupon twenty-two unfortunates were, one by one, 
conducted like criminals to the store of Messrs. Segond : when they 
were all landed, the pistol was again fired, upon which last signal a 
custom-liouse officer went on board to visit the said sloop-boat!!! 

" I saw the captain and crew of a slave-ship or brig landed at Port 
Louis from Antigua, in a small schooner-boat. The vessel and cargo 
were seized at Antigua for entering there. It appears that they 
must have taken that island for this. This vessel was bound here. 
Mons. Ranee is the merchant whose name is mentioned as the owner 
or consignee. 

" L'Adele Aimee took in her slaves at Old Calabar, situated (as I 
am informed) to the south-east of Bonn3\ The native chief, Duke 
Ephraim, supplied L'Adele Aimee with her cargo of slaves, at twenty- 
two to thirty-five bars each. ^Vliilst L'Adeile Aimee was at Old 
Calabar, L'Atalante, L'Eugenie, brig Fox, (and other vessels be- 
longing to this island,) were loading at Bonny. L'Adele Aimee had 
four guns when she went to the coast ; two of which, being brass 
six-poundcrs, were sold to Duke Ephraim, who has sent offers to 



PRANCE. 



U 



Messrs. Segond to continue the trade. He has sent a boy, a rela- 
tion of his, to this island, with a servant to wait on him, for the 
purpose of receiving education. A vessel which v/as at Bonny, and 
could not succeed there on account of the number of vessels pur- 
chasing cargoes, arrived at old Calabar when' L'Adele Aimee was 
there, and reported that the number of slave-vessels she left at 
Bonny was twenty. 

" Seamen have great temptation to go on the African slave-trade. 
Men before the mast get from 25 to 30 dollars a-month: thus some 
of the crew of the vessels which arrived at Pointe-a-Pitre had to re- 
ceive 200 dollars each, balance of wages. L'Atalante has been 
equipped again, and has sailed from Pointe-a-Pitrej no doubt with 
the intention to prosecute another voyage to the coast ; although the 
captain, oh account of his cruel treatment to his sailors, could not 
get a crew at Pointe-a-Pitre for the voyage ; but it is said that she 
has gone to Martinique to collect seamen. Her departure is marked 
on one of the enclosed extracts, mider the head, 23d to 30th Novem- 
ber. You will find also by, the enclosed extracts that each vessel 
(coming from Africa) reports in ballast from St. Bartholomew's. 

" Slaves are now imported so openly into this island, that those 
landed at Pointe-a-Pitre from St. Marie, by Messrs. Segond, are by 
them employed carrying stones, &c. for a laj-ge building lately com- 
menced by these merchants, without any fear of their being seized. 
The Louisa, a schooner which I mentioned in my letter of February 
last, being a remarkably fast-sailing vessel, is re-built entirely anew. 
She is, I am told, to be equipped for the slave-trade, and will be 
ready shortly. 

" I cannot conclude my present communication without expressing 
the horror and indignation which have seized me, when I have to 
relate that the Sabbath is the day on which, genei-ally speaking, a 
sale of the different cargoes landed on this island takes place, because 
it is on that day all the planters assemble at the different bourgs to 
go to church, &c. 

"The schooner L'Atalante is the same which I mentioned to you 
in my letter of February last as La Talente. The mistake happened 
fi;om my not then seeing the name written," 



^4 PRANCE* 

f 

" GuadaJoupe, 5th March, 16^1. 
'' In addition to my last communication, imder date of 13th De- 
cember last, I have to furnish you witli the painful account of the 
arrival of the brig Fox, from the coast of Africa, with a cargo of 
slaves, after an absence of a year. She took in her cargo at Bonny ; 
and when she left it, there were about twenty-eight vessels, large and 
small, then lying there for the purpose of procuring similar cai-goes*, 
I am informed by the crew, that the chief is named King Pepper,>and 
is the person who supplies the slaves at Bonny. The Fox arrived off 
Port Louis the 23d ult. and i-emained until this day ; during which 
time the debarkation and sale of the unfortunate Africans took 
place. As soon as she appeared off, her signal was well known by 
the agent of Messrs. Segond, with whom instructions about her in- 
tended arrival off Port Louis were lodged, several months back : 
whereupon a boat, with the agent's clerk, was sent off to the brig to 
communicate, after which she approached and anchored off Port 
Louis, about two o'clock in the afternoon, in presence of all the peo- 
ple, and also of the custom-house officer stationed there, whilst the 
custom-house boat, with waiters from Pointe-a-Pitre, was at the 
north mouth of La Riviere Sallee, who must have seen this brig ap- 
proaching Port Louis. On her arrival, the Bourg of Port Louis im- 
mediately resounded with noise of the arrival of a Guinea-man. A 
boat was immediately dispatched to Messrs. Segond at Pointe-i\- 
Pitre, through La Riviere Sallee, with the captain of the brig 
Fox. At about nine o'clock at night, she returned with the captain 
and the chief clerk of Messrs. Segond : thus you find that the captain 
fearlessly showed himself at Pointe-a-Pitre before the slaves were de- 
barked. They immediately began to concert on measures for the 
debarkation of the cargo ; and it was proposed to wait until about 
three o'clock the next morning, when they would be favoured with 
moonlight, whilst they had engaged two large canoes for the purpose. 
However, the captain being sick and fatigued, did not commence to 
debark at that hour. The debarkation, therefore, commenced later. 



• " This account will be found exactly to correspond with that received 
ii-ora the river Bonny Itself, and inserted in this year's Annual Report, 
p. 24." — Seepages. 



and was not ended before seven to eight o'clock on Saturday morn- 
ing, the 24th February, They were put into an old store-room at 
Rambouillette, (Port Louis,) so that they could be seen by every 
body. The custom-house officer stationed there was seen by me 
going to look at them with other persons. I went also and witnessed 
the cruel siglrt. I went to be convinced and to deplore. There 
were about 300 miserable beings, without distinction of sex, packed 
close together in the above-mentioned store-room, upon the bare 
earth,^ without even planks to serve as beds. They had no coverings 
for their bodies, except some of them, who had Only a piece of cloth 
to cover their middle. Some were sick, and a few presented the 
human shape in a most dreadful form, being reduced to mere skele- 
tons. But generally speaking, the greater part appeared to be in 
good health. They are of th« Eboe nation ; and I am informed 
that king Pepper got them from the interior. He supplied them 
very slojvly, which accounts for the long detention of the Fox. She 
took in 328 at Bonny, whereof about twenty-eight died, some of 
whom jumped overboard and drowned themselves, and, I am told, 
with the erroneous hope of getting back to their own country. 
Three hundred must have been landed, because, at the sale, thei-e re- 
mained 2941, a few having died since their arrival. Circulars were 
sent to the different planters of Grandetorre, and to those residing on 
the Gtiadaloupe share, to invite them to the sale 3'esterday, being 
the Sabbath-day ! It accordingly took place, and was numerously 
attended by people from all quarters. They were sold, (except about 
eighty,) upon an average, at about 3000 livres, or £.150 currency,, 
per head : among them were a good m.any boys and girls. The re-» 
mainder was taken off this day, on board of a sloop, which was or- 
dered round from Pointe-a-Pitre for that pBrposc. I saw her after- 
wards quit: she steered westerly. I am informed that they are sent 
to Porto Pi,ico. The brig Fox sailed for Pointe-a-Pitre the same day 
she landed her cargo. Before she sailed, I went on board of her, 
and saw the platforms erected, and et'cry thing indicative of her 
having had a cargo of slaves on board. In this condition she must 
have arrived at Pointe-a-Pitre. She was set up 4here, and sold the 
1st instant at vendue, like the other slave-vessels ofPornte-a-Pitre, 
to close the account of the nctionnairc'i interested in this voyage. 
" The Louisa, which you were informed was getting ready for sea. 



16 



FRANCE. 



lias since sailed. She is a remarkably fast-sailing vessel. L'Eugenic 
has also sailed again. 

" I am informed, and verily believe, that these slave-vessels get 
their arms and ammunition from the public arsenal at Pointe-a-Pitre. 
They all go out armed. There are no private stores where amis 
and ammunition are sold; and therefore the account which I have 
received, that the local government facilitates these expeditions, is 
very credible. As for the particulars respecting the arrival of the 
Fox, &c. it rests not upon idle reports, or what is generally beheved 
to be true. My information comes from what I have seen mjself 

" Cold and unfeeling indeed must be the heart of that man, if, 
situated as I am, he did not feel some indignation. When I con- 
sider that his Most Christian Majesty has signed solemn treaties, 
and ordained solemn decrees against this inhuman traffic, and that 
his subjects are unblushingly and successfully carrying it on, (with 
all the semblance of protection from the colonial government,) I can- 
not do otherwise than feel for this act of injustice — this open viola- 
tion of a solemn treaty! Could his Most Christian Majesty have 
been present, as well as his ministers, at the debarkation of the cargo 
of the Fox, I think that the tear of sympathy would start from their 
eyes, unless they had befoi'e visited the colonies, and were tainted 
by colonial prejudice; or unless they could not be convinced of this 
truth — ^that these Africans were fellow-creatures. I think that his 
Most Christian Majesty would be sunk in amazement, (if he is not 
yet in the secret of what is going on in this island,) after witnessing 
such a scene, and learning that some of his officers afford every fa- 
cility to the introduction of these Africans into Guadaloupe. 

" For my part, I think the present manner in which slaves are in- 
troduced into Guadaloupe, is more favourable to the slave-trader, 
than if the introduction was openly allowed by law; because, at most, 
he now pays about 600 dollars of a douceur, 8icr. but there no 
doubt would be a heavy duty, if the trade was permitted. Say 
then, that if only five per cent, ad valorem was demanded, the cargo 
of the Fox, if she paid that duty, and if the slaves were valued only 
at £.100 currency, would have to pay about £.1470, or 3266 dollars, 
as the total amount of dut3^" 

" Such is the account of an eye-witness of many of the scenes which 
be describes. And here it ought not to be forgotten, that Guada- 



FRANCE. 17 

loupe was ceded to France by Sweden, under the mediation of this 
country, subject of course to the condition under which this last 
power had received it from Great Britain, namely, that no slave- 
trade should be allowed to exist there. This condition, however, 
it will be admitted, has been most flagrantly violated*." 



After reading these melancholy statements of the callous insensibility 
of Slave-traders, who are a disgrace to humanity, and much more so 
to a people professing the Christian name, it is cheering to meet with 
o?ie honourable exception, in General Milius, governor of Bourbofi; 
although, in reading his letters, we find a fresh instance of the bar- 
barity and cruelty which this iniquitous traffic produces. 

" The following is an account of the piratical habits produced by 
the slave-trade, given by General Milius himself, in a letter to the 
Minister of the Marine. After observing that the 'barbarous and 
inhuman expeditions which our slave-traders are so frequently en- 
gaged in at Bourbon, in defiance of the extreme severity by which I 
endeavour to oppose them,' are also frequent at the Mauritius, and 
attended by circumstances still more atrocious, he proceeds to state, 
that he had been applied to by the governor of the Mauritius, to 
deliver up a criminal of the name of Lemoine, whose conduct had 
confirmed all his former observations respecting the ' inhuman cru- 
elty, sordid avarice, and callous barbarity of those who engage in the 
slave-trade,' but that he had failed to trace him. The facts of the 
case are thus stated by governor Milius. 

" In the month of September last, the Sieur Lemoine, master and 
owner of the schooner I'Espoir, or the Bamboche, left the Mauritius 
under English colours, shaping his course towards the coasts of 
Madagascar and of the Mozambique. He fell in with a Portuguese 
vessel, laden with negroes and gold-dust. An eagerness and thirst 
of gain seized upon his soul: he ran along-side of the Portuguese 
vessel, and immediately killed the mate by a musket-shot. Having 
boarded her, he soon obtained possession of the vessel tlius attacked; 
and his first questions were addressed to a Portuguese colonel, aged 

" Supplement to the l">th Report, page 125 — 135. 

I! 



IS FRANCE. 

50, of whom he enquired where the money and gold-dust were depo- 
sited. After this short interrogatory, Lemoine purposely stepped 
aside, and a man named Reineur, who was behind him, with a pis- 
tol blew out the unfortunate colonel's brains. But these crimes were 
not enough to satisfy their savage inhumanity. The master of the 
captured vessel, alarmed by the rapid succession of these massacres, 
threw himself overboard, in order to escape a more immediate death. 
Vain hope! the fury of Lemoine and his accomplices was not yet al- 
layed. They pursued him in a boat, and, having soon overtaken 
him, they cut him on the head with a sabre. The unfortunate man, 
feelino- himself wounded, caught hold, in order to support himself, of 
the boat in which his murderers were, who, profiting by this last ef- 
fort of despair, had the dastard cruelty i& run a sword into his 
throat, the point of which came out at the side of their victim: the 
body disappeared, and they returned on board fatigued, but not sa- 
tiated with murders ! They shut up, in the hold, the remaining 
Portuguese sailofs, and after having taken off the rich cargo, they 
scuttled the ship, and sunk her with the crew they had thus 
shut up. 

" I own, Monseigneur, that such horrid acts of cruelty would be. 
too painful to relate, were they not seldom found to be accompanied 
by such frightful details. 

" After this infamous expedition, Lemoine went to Mahe, which 
he soon left for the Mauritius ; leaving one Basset, his second in com- 
mand, in charge of the schooner at Seychelles. 

*^* On his arrival at the Isle of France, Lemoine ordered Basset 
to sell his vessel at Mahe, which was done through the means of the 
Judge of the Admiralty. But, when Basset claimed the amount of 
the sale, the indiscretion of his crew had given rise to suspicion : 
the rumour of the murders was generally spread, and Basset was 
taken up. Having, by confession, obtained the clearest evidence of 
the crimes committed by Lemoine and the crew of TEspoir, the 
Commandant of Seychelles sent them to the superior court at the 
Mauritius, where proceedings are now going on against them. 

" But the ends of justice will only be half attained : the most 
guilty person has escaped, and every circumstance confirms the pre- 
sumption that he has left the two colonies. 

" The foregoing is, Monseigneur, a faithful narrative of the horrors 



FRANCE. ip 

|)ractised by a slave-trader. To these lengths will an eager avarice 
urge on those who can traffic in human flesh. I shall not venture 
to add a single reflection ; the heart and understanding of your Ex- 
cellency will furnish the best inference to be deduced from this com- 
faiunication *." 

Sir George Collier, the commander of the British ships of warj 
stationed on the coast of Africa, to enforce the abolition laws, atid the 
treaties entered i7ito between Great Britain and the other powers of 
Europe, to promote the termination of the Slave-trade, in a letter^ 
dated " the l67A o/" September^ 1820/' says: 

" France^ it is with the deepest regret that I mention it, has coun- 
tenanced and encouraged the Slave-trade, almost beyond estimation oir 
belief, trance is engrossing nearly the whole of the Slave-trade; and 
she has extended this trafiic beyond what can be supposed, but by one 
only who has witnessed it. In truth, France now supplies the foreign 
colonies, north of the Line, with Africans. I exaggerate nothing in 
saying, that thirty vessels, bearing the colours of France, havei, nearly 
at the same time, and within two or three leagues of distance, been 
femployed slaving. I will add, that in the last twelve months, not less 
than 60,000 Africans have been forced from their country, princi- 
pally under the colours of France ; most of whom have been distri- 
buted between the islands of Martinique, Guadaloupe, and Cuba. 
France has certainly issued her decrees against this trafiic, but she 
has done nothing to enforce them. On the contrary, she gives to 
the trade all countenance short of public avowal." 

The Appendix to the last Report of the African Institution con* 
tains clear proof that the British ministry have not been backward in 
tepresenting to the French government the flagrant violations cm the 
part of its subjects, of the laws by which it should be bound, of the 
treaties to which it had been a party. 

Towards the close of the year 1820, Lord Castlereagh addressed a 
long letter io the British ambassador at Pa)-is, to be communicated to 
the French ministry, containing importajit information and judicious 

* Supplement to the 15th Report, page 144 — 146. 
B 2 



20 SPAIN. 

reflections on the continuance of the trade hy the subjects of France. 
The reply to this document is also printed, but the committee of the 
■ African Institution have made long comments on its contents, in wliidi 
the arguments contained in the reply are ably refuted. 



sPAiiSr. 

Toivards the close of the year 1817, « decree mas issued by the 
king' of Spain, for the restriction and ultimate abolition of the Slave- 
trade, can-ied on by subjects of Spain. The first a7id third articles 
of this decree are as follon-s : . 

" Alt. i. From this day forward, I prohibit all my 9uBjects, both 
in the Peninsula and in America, from going to buy negroes on the^ 
coasts of Africa, north of the Line. The negroes who may be 
bought on the said coa§ts shall be declared free, in the first port of my 
dominions at which the sliip in which they are transported shall 
arrive. The ship itself, together with the remainder of its cargo, 
shall be confiscated to the royal treasury, and the purchaser, the 
captain, the master, and pilot, shall be irrevocably condemned to 
ten years' transportation to the Philippines. 

"Art.iii. From the 30th of May, 1820, I equally prohibit all 
my subjects,^^ as well in the Peninsula as in America, from going t-o 
purxhase negroes along those parts of the coast of Africa which are 
to the south of the Line, under the same penalties imposed in the 
first article of this decree : allowing likewise the space of five months 
from the above date to complete the voyages that may be undertaken 
before the above-mentioned 30th of May, in which the traffic in 
slaves shall cease in all my dominions, as well in Spain as in 
America. 



The follorving extracts from the letters of one of the Commissioners 
of the British government, stationed at the Havannah, to^iforce the 
abolition laws, indicate great indifference on the part of Spain, to 
give them their due effect. 

" On the 6th of February, 1 820, Mr. Kilbee acquaints Lord Castle- 
reagh, that ' the slave-trade continues to be very brisk, and that 



SPAIN. 21 

almost dally there are awivals from, and departures to, the- coast of 
Africa.' 

" On the 29th of June, 1820, the same gentleman writes, that on 
the 30th of May', the very day on which, by treaty, the Spanish 
slave-trade was to cease, every where and for ever, and during a few 
days before, about twenty vessels sailed from the Havannah to the 
coast of Africa for slaves, their owners having been led hy thfe 
Spanish authorities theie, to believe that there was no risk of capture 
in the case of vessels clearing out for southern Africa, on or befoi-e the 
SOtli of May, even although they should 'not complete their voyages 
in the five rndnths allowed by the treaty for that purpose -aiid this 
notwithstanding the clear and express terms in which, their own mu- 
nicipal law, as well as the treaty with Great Britain, limits th^" 
period. 

"On the 31st of August, 1S20, Mr. Kilbee informs Lord Castle- 
reagh as follows : ' No vessel detained in virtue of our slave-tracTe'" 
treaty with Spain, has yet reached this port for adjudication. V 
stated upon a former occasion that many of the slave-ships that ar- 
rive here obtain their cargoes on the coast of Africa north of the 
Line. For some time after the mixed Commission was declared ;td 
be opened, these vessels were in the habit of landing their negroes at 
Batabano, or some other of the smaller ports in the island ; fearing 
that if they came direct to the Havannah, where one of the British 
Commissioners was resident, their papers could be examined, and 
that they would be liable to the penalties stipulate}! by treaty. 
Finding, however, that such as did reach this port were not subject- 
ed to any special examination in consequence of the treaty, either on 
the part of the mixed Commission, or on that of the authorities of his 
Catholic Majesty, they have latterly come direct to the Havannah, 
and make pb mystery of having proceeded from the coast of Africa 
north of the Line.' " 

'*' Every slave thus illicitly introduced is, by the treaty, most clearly 
entitled to his freedom ; and the British government have, besides, 
a right to half the proceeds of every vessel employed in introducing 
them. It seems; therefore, scarcely to admit of doubt, that such 
manifest violations of the engagements of Spain, and such gross neo-- 
Hgence, to say the least, on the part of the local authorities, might 
^ave formed a proper subject, not less of the official denunciations of 



23 SPAIN, 

our Commissionerc, than of the pointed remonstrances of our go«i 
vernment*." 

*' The last letter from Mr, Kilbee is dated November 8, 1820. It 
states, that on the 30th of October, the term allowed by treaty for 
completing the voyages of Spanish slave-ships, had expired; but that 
on the 6th inst. the brig Tellus, Don Juan Botel, master, consigned 
to Messrs. Pelegrin, Marquez, and Co. had entered that port with 
176 negroes from the coast of Africa, and was admitted and allowed 
to land her cargo. Mr. Kilbee represented the matter to the go- 
vernor; but on his part it was alleged, that this vessel having cleared 
out before the 30th of May, must be allowed time to finish her voy^ 
age, five months not being sufficient for that purpose ; and, it was 
contended, that the penalties were only meant to attach to such as 
should commence their voyages subsequently to the 30th of May, 
He would, therefore, he said, admit vessels, under such circumstances, 
until he should receive further orders from his government ; and, in 
the mean time, security would be taken for the value of their car-; 
goes, from the owners of vessels arriving subsequently to the 30th of 
October, until the decision of the two governments should^ be 
known t. 

*' The Spanish government applied several times to Lord Castlereagh 
for an extension of the period of five months allowed fpr completing 
the slave- voyages begun before the 30th of May, 1820; but this ap- 
plication his lordship uniformly and strenuously resisted. An able 
note addressed to the Spanish Charge d' Affaires, on the 11th of 
June, 1820, affords a comprehensive and most satisfactory view of 
the whole of his lordship's argument. The following extract from it 
will sufficiently show its general bearing, 

*' The argument used in M. d'Usoz's note, founding the present 
demands on the known impossibility of vessels being able to com- 
mence and complete an expedition in slave-trading, within the pe- 
riod between May and October, 1820, so as to insure to the mer- 
chants the safety of their cargoes, is a position not to be denied; but 
the undersigned considers it as peculiarly corroborative of the spirit 
and intention of the article in question, which was to discourage, ra- 

* Supplement to the 15th Report, page 29— 3J. f Ditto, page 33. 



SPAIN. \ 23 

ther than to facilitate the commencement of such Enterprises, at so 
late a period as the last day of the term in which the virtual suppres- 
sion was to take effect. In fact, such an integral change in this part 
of the treaty, can only be considered by the undersigned as pro tanlo 
defeating the very object for which it was framed ; which object cer- 
tainly was no other than the final abolition of the slave-trade by 
S|w,in, at as early a period as the interests of its subjects, upon due 
notice, would permit, and to which interest so large a sacrifice in 
money was, at the time, made by Great Britain, in reliance on the 
good faith of the Spanish government in carrying into effect the arti- 
cle which it is now proposed to defeat, by the solicitation of a still 
longer period ; aad as the treaty was made public as far back as the 
year 1817j the undersigned does not see how Spanish merchants 
can plead ignorance of the provisions of the treaty, or entertain any 
expectation of an alteration in one of its most important articles. 

'* If there be any speculators, whose love of enterprise and thirst 
for lucre shall have led them into risks thus wilfully, not to say 
blameably incurred, such traders must abide by the penalties which 
they knew to be impending over them ; nor can they in justice claim 
the protection 0/ their government, after the timely notice given to 
them." 

" On receiving Mr. Kilbee's last letter, Lord Castlereagh addressed 
a dispatch to Sir Henry Wellesley, dated the l6th of February, 
1821, repeating many of the arguments he had before employed, 
and desiring him to require of the Spanish government an exact per- 
formance of the stipulations of the treaty. ' His Majesty rests his 
full assurance upon the well-known honour of Spain, that the govern- 
ment will give orders for acting up to the treaty. There is every 
reason to believe that an additional and forced trade in human beings 
has been founded on the prospect of its termination, both by sending 
more ships than could be loaded on the coast of Africa within the or- 
dinary time of trade ; and by multiplying ships' j)apers, so as to 
allow of their being used at a future time. And it appears, from the 
instance more immediately referred to, (that of the Telius,) that ves- 
sels take their clearances from one settlement, and make their im- 
portations into another ; thus making it doubly inexpedient to admit 
of any alteration of the treaty, since it would be impossible to esta- 
blish any effectual check against such evasiojis.' He concludes with 



24 PORTUGAL. 

desiring Sir H. Wellesley to call upon the Spanish government to 
issue immediate ordei's to the authorities at the Havannah and else- 
where, and to their commissioners at the Havannah and Sierra 
Leone, to act faithfully up to the stipulations pf the treaty. The re- 
sult of this communication does not appear from these papers*/' 



PORTUGAL. 



The documents printed in the S^ipplement from which the last ex- 
tracts are taken, unequivocally prove the continuance of the Slave-trade 
hy the Portugtiese, in a way which indicates great indifference to its 
abolition on the part of that government, as the following statements 
show. 

" In various communications from Mr. Chamberlain, his Majesty's 
Charge d'Affaires at Rio de Janeiro, arc given isome interesting 
statements respecting the extent of the Portuguese Slave-trade. 

" On the 2d of October, 1817, he writes, that during the two pre- 
ceding months the slave-trade from Rio de Janeiro had suddenly and 
largely increased. Twenty-seven vessels had sailed thence in that 
time, capable of carrying 9450 slaves, a number amounting to nearly 
half the supply of any former year ; and several more were pre- 
paring. Of these twenty-seven vessels, as many as twenty-one had 
cleared out for Cabenda, which Mr. Chamberlain attributes, with 
great appearance of probability, to the immediate vicinity of that 
place to the prohibited district, and the consequent facility of drawing 
slaves thence. 

"From the 1st of January, 1817, to the 1st of January, 1818, 
6070 slaves, the same gentleman states, were imported into the cap- 
taincy of Bahia from the coast of Africa, in sixteen ships. 

" The number imported in the same time into Rio de Janeiro, in 
forty-two ships, was 18,033. A much larger number, viz. 20,075 
had been embarked, but 2042 had died in the Middle Passage. 



Supplement to the loth Report, page 34—36. 



PORTUGAL. 



One vessel, the Protector, had taken on board 807 slaves at Mozam- 
bique, of whom 339 died during the voyage. 

" On the 9th of May, 1818, Mr. Chamberlain writes, that the 
slave-trade had now increased beyond all former example; twenty- 
five vessels having arrived since the beginning of the year, none 
bringing less, and many of them more, than 400 of these unhappy 
beings, which made the importation at least 10,000 during the pre- 
ceding four months. 

" The number of slaves imported into Rio de Janeiro, from Janu- 
ary 1 to December 31, 1818, was 1938O2. The number embarked 
had been 22,231, in fifty-three ships, of whom 2429 had died on the 
passage. One vessel, the Perola de Norta, from Mozambique, lost 
l(5l out of 421; another the Uniao Fehz, from Mozambique, lost 
229 out of 659, a third, the St. Jose Diligente from Kilimane, lost 
238 out of 464. 

" It is to be regretted that this account has not been continued; and 
also that the impoitations into the other captaincies of the Brazils 
should not have been mentioned. 

" The third article of the treaty concluded with Portugal on the 28th 
of July, 1817? for repressing the illicit slave-trade, stipulated, that 
within two months after the exchange of the ratifications, which was 
to take place on or before the 28th of November, 1817, his Most 
faithful Majesty should promulgate a law, prescribing the punishment 
to be inflicted on such of his subjects as should in future participate in 
the illicit traffic of slaves; and renewing the existing prohibition to 
import slaves into the Brazils, under any other flag than that of 
Portugal ; in which law his Most Faithful Majesty further engaged 
to assimilate as much as possible the legislation of Portugal to that 
of Gi-eat Britain. In compHance with this stipulation, such a law 
should have been promulgated on or before the 28th of Januaiy, 
1818. Repeated applications were made on this subject by Mr. 
Chamberlain, his Majesty's Charge d' Affaires at the Court of Brazil; 
but it was not till the month of May that the law was communicated 
to him, or even printed*." 



* Supplement to the 15th Report, page 36 — 38. 



$6 PORTUGAL. 

This law contains the two following articles : 

" Art. i. All persons, of whatsoever quality or condition^ who 
shall proceed to fit out or prepare vessels for the traffic in slaves, in 
any part of the coast of Africa lying north of the Equator, shall in- 
cur the penalty of the loss of the slaves, who shall be declared free, 
with a destination herein afterwards mentioned. The vessels engaged 
in the traffic shall be confiscated, with all their tackle and appurte- 
nances, together with the cargo, of whatever it may consist, which 
shall be on board on account of the owners or freighters of such ves- 
sel, and of the owners of such slaves. The officers of such vessel — 
to wit, the captain or master, the pilot and supercargo — shall be 
banished for five years to Mosambique, and each shall pay a fine 
equivalent to the pay or other profits which he was to gain by the, ad- 
venture. Policies of insurance cannot be made on such vessels, or 
their cargoes ; and if they are made, the assurers who shall knowingly 
make them, shall be condemned in triple the amount of the stipu- 
lated premium. 

" Art. ii. All persons, of whatever rank or condition, who shall 
import slaves into Brazil, in foreign vessels, shall incur the same 
penalty of the loss of the slaves, who shall become freemen, and be 
provided for as hereinafter directed*/' 

" This law," the Committee of the African Institution remark, "if 
properly followed up, would doubtless do much to repress the illicit Por- 
tuguese slave-trade ; and it might have been expected that the Court 
of Brazils, being really anxious to carry it into effect, would have 
given authority to the Portuguese judges of the mixed Commission 
Court at Sierra Leone, to have taken cognizance of any infractions 
of it which might be brought under their view. So far, however, 
was this from having been done, that in June, J 820, eighteen months 
after the date of the law, those judges, having before them a clear 
and undoubted case of illicit slave-trading, not only permitted the 
parties to depart, with their vessel and her cargo restored to them, 
but assigned to them a full indemnification, to be paid by the captor t. 

" The Board will recollect, that at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle, 
the powers assembled there agreed to make a solemn and joint ap-. 



• Supplement to the loth Report, page 38, 39. -|- Ditto, page 42, 



PORTUGAL. 27 

peal to the King of Portugal, to induce him entirely to abolish the 
filavertrade. The letters of those different powers having been pre- 
sented to him; on the 21st of August, 1819? he addressed a letter to 
his Majesty, in reply to one received from him, in which he states 
that he had caused his subjects to observe the stipulations of the 
treaty, for abolishing the slave-trade to the north of the Line, and 
that he had given to that traffic * the direction which was most con- 
formable to these stipulations, without lisking a general commotion 
in the Brazils, in order to substitute white colonists for a black po- 
pulation, from whom rude labour alone can be expected, without 
either industry or activity' in such labours. * It is extremely dis- 
agreeable,' he adds, * to be thus placed between two evils, one of 
which would prevent the increase of industry in general; whilst the 
other, by opposing the prejudices of two centuries, would be revolt- 
ing to the opinions of the proprietors, and perhaps inflame the minds 
of the slaves. In this crisis I have preferred indirect means : the 
traffic has already much decreased ; and I hope that in time you will 
have the satisfaction of seeing your views realized.' 

^' So far as this letter is intelligible, it appears intended to postpone 
the abolition of the Portuguese Slave-trade to an indefinite period. 
The only facts asserted in it — namely, that the king had caused his 
subjects to observe the stipulations of the treaty, abolishing the slave- 
trade north of the Line, and that the trade had much decreased 

3re contradicted, it is to be feared, by incontrovertible evidence. 

" Our government has not limited its efforts to induce Portugal 
entirely to renounce the slave-trade, to the above communication. 
There appear in these papers several urgent applications to the Portu- 
guese minister, calling upon him to fulfil the pledge given at the Con- 
gress of Vienna, that in eight years, at most, from that time, the 
Portuguese Slave-trade should cease*." 

" Sir George Collier, in ISiPj had detained two slaving vessels, 
which were found to be the property of the governor of Prince's, on 
the coast of Africa; and the Nova Felicidade, whose case is mentioned 
above in the proceedings of the mixed Commission Court at Sierra 
Leone, and which, though only eleven tons burden, had seventy- 



Supplement to the 15th Report, page 43. 44. 



28 NETHERLANDS. 

one human beings crowded into her hold, is stated to liave belonged 
to the «ame person. Lord Castlereagh preferred a complaint against 
him to the Portuguese government, urgently requesting ' that no 
time may be lost in instituting an inquiry into his conduct ; and that 
as there are the strongest reasons to believe that he has been deeply 
implicated in the abuses which have been practised on that coast, in 
carrying on the slave-trade, in violation of the treaty betwieen the 
countries, he may be removed, without further delay, from the com- 
mand of that island ?' He presses it also upon that government^ 
' how eminently it becomes their character, as dii'ecting the affairs 
of a civilized nation, and how important to their fair name, at a mo- 
ment when the continuance of the Negro slave-trade is a subject of 
general abhorrence in every civilized country, with the single ex- 
ception of the Brazils, that they should adopt the most decisive and 
vigorous measures to arrest the progress of an evil which appears to 
be increasing, rather than to diminish, in its most horrid character.' 
' The documents,' his lordship adds, afford ' ample proof of the 
horrid and disgraceful manner in which this odious traffic is still cars, 
ried on by his Most Faithful Majesty's subjects; how in its. most 
illicit form, it is encouraged and connived at by the Portuguese 
authorities; and how seriously it becomes the duty of every govern- 
ment, and of every individual friend of humanity, to do all in their 
power to put an end to such unjustifiable outrages.' 

" The papers do not state what was the actual result of these spi's 
rited representations *." 



NETHERLANDS. 



It seems p-oper to ^introduce the account of the trade carried on 
hy the subjects of the king of the Netherlands , hy printing the following 
law. 

" On the 20th of November, 1 S 1 8, tlie following law, entitled a law 
' denouncing penalties in order to prevent and check the slave-trade, 



• Supplement to the 15th KeporL, page 46, 47. 



SietherLands. 29 

was promulgated by that government, and a cop)'' of it reached Eng- 
land on the 4th of March, 181 9. 

' We, William, by the grace of God, King of the Netherlands', 
Prince of Orange Nassau, Grand Duke of Luxemburg, &c. &c. &c. ' 

' Having considered our decree of June 15, 1814 ; likewise article 
eight of the treaty concluded August 13,. 1814, between our king- 
dom and that of Great Britain ; as also article one of the treaty dated 
the 4th of May, of the same year, all relative to the abolition of the 
slave-trade • and article sixty of the fundamental law ; and being 
solicitous to prevent a traffic so disgraceful to humanity, we, on the 
proposal of our minister for justice and foreign affairs, and after 
hearing the council of state, have decreed and do decree: — 

' Art i. No one, of whatever description, in our West India 
colonies and settlements, or on the coast of Guinea, shall be per- 
mitted to carry on the slave-trade, or to be directly or indirectly 
connected with that traffic, whether by fitting out ships or vessels for 
that purpose, or by having an interest in the fitting out, to that end, 
of national or other ships and vessels, and by designedly letting 
them by contract for such object, or by shipping, buying, selling, bar- 
tering, and openly or surreptitiously importing, or causing to be im- 
ported, Negroes as slaves, into any Netherland or foreign- colony or 
settlement out of Europe, on pain, to transgressors and their accom- 
plices, of incurring, a penalty of five thousand florins, besides being 
declared infamous, and imprisoned for the period of five years. 

' Art. ii. To the same punishment shall be liable all foreigners^ 
who, subsequently to April 1, I8I9, sha:ll have carried to, or im- 
ported, or attempted to import, into our above-mentioned colonies 
and settlements, one or more Negroes, and who shall be apprehended 
in our said colonies and settlements: and any ships and vessels 
laden with Negroes, which, previous to that period, may put into any 
of the Netherland harbours in those parts of the world, shall imme- 
diately be warned off. 

' Art. iii. Penalties similar to those specified in article i. shall be 

inflicted upon all masters of vessels, steersmen, and supercargoes, 

whether Netherland or foreign, who shall have lent their assistance 

towards the carrying on of the prohibited traffic in slaves, and shall, 

' in consequence, after the above period, have carried to, or imported 



30 NET HERLASTDS. 

into, or attempted to carry to, or import into, the said colonies ot 
settlements, any cargo of Negroes. 

* Art. iv. Sailors, and other seafaring men, who shall be appre- 
hended in our colonies on a charge of having deliberately entered 

• into the service of ships or vessels, knowing them to be engaged in 
the slave-trade in general, or in the importation of slaves into om- 
above-mentioned colonies and settlements, shall, by way of punish- 
ment, be imprisoned for two years ; and those who discover it after- 
wards, shall immediately stand discharged from their service, and 
take the first opportunity, unattended with danger to themselves, to 
quit the same, on pain, in the contrary case, of incurring the punish- 
ment alluded to. 

* Art. v. The above denunciations of punishment, however, shall 
ho way apply to slaves now existing in the colonies, or to their chil- 
dren, whether born or that may be born, respectively, who shall be 
transferred to and from any Netherland colony in the West Indies, or 
to and from any foreign colony, or any portion thereof; and we ex- 
pressly declare, that no one whosoever shall, on that account, be 
suffered to be at all molested ; inasmuch as such importation and 
transfer does not come within the meaning of the prohibited slave- 
trade. 

* Art. vi. Neither shall the punishments threatened by the present 
law be made applicable to those who shall save and succour any slave- 
vessel in distress, or who may have transshipped from such vessel any 
slaves, provided the commander give due information of it within 
fourteen hours of his putting into the first port he shall make. 

' Our ministers of justice and public instruction, of national in- 
dustry and the colonies, are directed, each according to his depart- 
ment, to see the above carried into execution ; and the latter shall 
cause the present decree to be proclaimed and affixed, as usual, in the 
before-mentioned colonies and settlements; and copies of the present 
decree shall hkewise be communicated to our ministers for foreign 
affairs, and to the council of state, for their information.* 

" The fifth article of the above law, it will be obvious, goes far, by a 
kind of side-wind, to nullify the whole of the preceding enactments, 
•as well as the entire effect of the treaty which it professes to enforce; 
for that article permits the unrestricted import and export of slaves 



NETHERLANDS. SI 

between the Dutch colonies in the West Indies reciprocally; and be- 
tween those colonies and the colonies of all other nations. 

" It ought not, perhaps, to excite any surprise, that the evasive 
nature of this provision should not have immediatel}"- arrested the 
attention of his majesty's government. It appears, indeed, to have 
been overlooked, until the practical evils which might naturally be 
expected to flow from it called loudly for interference. 

" On the 12th of January, 1819, the above law was procMmed at 
Surinam. 

" On the 2Sd of November, in thatyear,his majesty's commission- 
ers at Surinam, for carrying the treaty into effect, C. E. Lefroy, Esq. 
the commissary judge, and T. S. Wale, Esq. the arbitrator, inform- 
ed Lord Castlereagh, that ' under the fifth and sixth articles' of that 
decree, of which they inclose an official copy, * a trade in slaves with 
the West India islands does exist ; that two vessels, one from Guada- 
loupe, the other from Martinique, under the Fi-ench flag, but con- 
signed to inhabitants of this colony, ai-e at the present time discharg- 
ing their cargoes of slaves in the river Surinam ; and that a ship 
under the Netherland colours has sailed from hence for the purpose 
of purchasing slaves at^Pernambuco.' 

" Again, on the 27th of December, 1819, the same gentleman in- 
formed Lord Castlereagh, ' that the trade in slaves under the French 
flag, is carried on in great vigour, and that the majority of the slave- 
cargoes admitted under that flag are recent importations from Africa. 
Every circumstance of appearance and language of the Negroes, and 
even the admission both of buyers and sellers, render this a fact too 
notorious to permit us to conceal it from your lordship.' 

*' On the 1st of April, 1820, these gentlemen further stated: 

* We are extremely sorry to report, that fresh arrivals of slave- 
vessels under the French flag have taken place; and that, as nearly 
as we can compute upon the whole, since the publication of the de- 
cree, of which we had the honour to inclose your lordship a copy in 
our dispatch of the 23d of November last, no less a number than 
2800 slaves, (the greater part recently from Africa,) have lately been 
introduced into this colony. We have had some conversation with 
the captain and officers of a Dutch frigate, the Comet, which is com- 
missioned under the treaty to cruise upon this station ; but they do 
not think their authority extends to an interference, in any case, with 



32 NETHEUI^ANDS. 

the French flag, or with the interception of slaves imported underit>; 
protection. Our official colleagues, Messrs. Changiiier and Graafland, 
are likewise of the same opinion ; and that neither the letter nor the 
spirit of the authority with which the mixed courts are at present in- 
vested, comprehends any means of repressing or controlling this me- 
thod of evading the object of the treaty. 

" Under these circumstances, it will be manifest to your lordship, 
that unless in compliance with the last clause of the first article of the 
treaty, the Dutch government repeals the permission, contained in 
the decree to which we have before had occasion to refer, of impor- 
tation from ' friendly colonies,' whose vessels have not been subject, 
by any express treaty, to the right of search, or has lecourse to some 
further measures, your lordship's efforts in this great cause will be, in 
part at least, defeated." 

" Again, on the 6th of April, 1820, they wrote as follows: — 
" Although we had so recently the honour of addressing you, a 
circumstance- has occurred since we made up our last dispatch, of 
which we think it our duty to put your lordship in possession — viz. 
the arrival of a vessel, under Dutch colours, with not less than four 
hundred and eighty slaves on board, (with papers professedly from 
a ' friendly colony,' under the authority of the decree of the Dutch 
government, accompanying our dispatch of the iJ3d of November, 
but which papers, from the appearance, manners, and every circum- 
stance attending both the vessel and her cargo, we can feel no doubt 
to have been collusive,) without the least obstruction either from the 
Dutch ships of war in the river, or from the governor or local autho- 
rities in this place.'^ 

" His majesty's commissioners at Surinam, on the 14th of August, 
1 820, again addressed Lord Castlereagh to the following effect : 

" When we had before the honour of addressing your lordship, we 
communicated the circumstance of the French and Dutch flags being 
made covers to the importation of slaves into this colony, evidently 
new comers from Africa, though perhaps alleged to have been pro- 
cured immediately from neighbouring colonies: since then, we have 
seen the Portuguese colours also employed in a similar service ; and 
in the course of the last week, three vessels under the flag of France, 
apparently direct from the African coast, have discharged their cjir- 
Ijjoes of slaves in tliis port." ' 



NETHERLANDS. S3 

'f The only remaining communitation from these gentlemen is 
dated so late as December 12, 1820, and is as follows: — 

' We beg leave to inform your lordship, that the importation of 
slaves into this colony, which has been the subject of our former let-* 
ters to your lordship, is still continued, and that in a recent instance^ 
a slave-vessel with her cargo, prize to, and brought in by a South- 
American privateer, has been admitted b?/ this government to the 
market.' 

" It is obvious that, according to the stipulations of the treaty, all 
the slaves who have thus been introduced into Surinam ought to 
have been emancipated, the ships to have been confiscated, and the 
parties concerned to have undergone the punishment prescribed in 
the decree of the king of the Netherlands*." 



These statements did not fail to claim the early attention of the 
British government, and through the ambassador at the court of the 
Netherlands, strong remonstrances were made. They did not, how-, 
ever, meet with that diligent attention which the case demanded. At 
length, in the course of last spring, nine months afterwards, a decree 
was issued by the king, the substance of which is as follows: 

" We, William, by the grace of God, king of the Netherlands, 
&c. &c. considering that, according to reports which have been 
received, slaves are now and then imported into the colony of 
Surinam fi'om certain foreign colonies, where the slave-trade with 
Africa direct is still permitted, — referring to the treaty concluded 
between the Netherlands and Great-Britain on the 4th of March, 
1818; referring to the law of the 20th of November, 1813; having 
examined the reports of our ministers for foreign affairs and justice, 
public instruction, national industry, and colonies ; by the advice 
of our privy council — have thought fit and determined to prohibit 
the importation of slaves into the coloBies of our kingdom, and 
especially into that of Surinam, from those colonies where the direct 
slave-trade with Africa is still permitted, as we do by these presents, 

" Supplement to the 15th Report, page 48—54. 



34 ' NETllERLAiJDS. 

and under the §»tne penalties as are denounced against, the importa-- 
tion of prohibited goods there." 

On this debtee, the coynmillee of the African InslHution make th€ 
JoUoiving Just reflections: 

" This decree was, doubtless, intehded by its frarners to satisfy the 
just and pressing demands of our government. The committee are 
nevertheless compelled to say, that however honourable may have 
lieen its intghtion, as it now starids it is a mere evasion of them ; for 
it pi-ohibits the iraportatioh of slaves into Surinam, only when it is 
made fiontl those colonies where the direct slave-trade with,Africa is 
perrhitted. But there is no such colony in the West Indies. The 
prohibition, therefore, if not perfectly nugatory, may be regarded as 
giving a legal sanction to what was formerly at least not admitted, 
namely, the right to import slaves into Surinam from all the other 
colonies in the West Iridies. Take the case, for example, of an im- 
portation fiOm Mattinique, or Guadaloupe, or Cayenne, or Porto 
Rico, ol- the Havannah : in nbhe of these is the direct slave-trade 
\*?ith Africa still permitted, to whatever- extfetlt it riiay illicitly subsist- 
From all of them, therefore, notwithstanding this decree, nay, even 
under its implied sanction, m^y slaves be imported into Surinam 
without restriction. But this was the very abuse against which our 
government had reirioHstrated. The government of the Netherlands' 
professed to yield to oui: remoristrances ; and in fulfilment of that 
profession, if prornUlgates a decreg which tibt Only leaves the abase 
complained of wholly untouched, but seems to render it legal. Our 
governrnfint, it cannot be doubted, has already pointed out this dis- 
appbintmijnt of the hiimahe expectations Which the appearance of the 
decree must have raised, and has called for a measure more conso- 
nant to the letter and the spirit of our existing treaties : a measure; 
to use the words of our treaty, " cal&ulaied in I^He Hiost EJFFECttJAL. 
MANNER to pr Client all their respective subjects froin taking any 
Share vi^HATEVER in this nefarious traffic'' It is lamentable to see 
with what tenacity this Christian power clings to every remnant of 
this execrable commerce, to which the special pleadings of its colonists 
can give any colour of consistency with its engagements. 

" Then, as to the -punishment denounced by this new law, while it 
places a human beings or a cargo of human beings, on a level with a 



East coast of Africa* S$ 

keg of gin or a firkin of butter, is it not a relaxation, instea^ of an 
aggravation, of the penalties already affixed to slave-trading, namely, 
• a penalty of "5000 florins, besides being declared infamous, and 
imprisoned for the period of five years ?' If the undefined penalty 
attached to the importation of prohibited goods be, as the com- 
mittee apprehend, one of less sevcrit3^ then the measure assumes 
a still more reprehensible character. But be it so, or not, the decree 
is still a most inefficient and unsatisfactory fulfilment of the solemn 
engagements of the king of the Netherlands^ and of the just expecta- 
tions of the British government*." 



EAST COAST OF AFRICA. 

OBSERVATIONS on the SLAVE-TRADE carried on at 
ZANZEBAR. 

" The slave-trade is carried on along the whole extent of the east 
coast of Africa, wherever there is a harbour, or an anchorage, in which 
vessels can traffic with safety ; but I select one spot as peculiarly 
calling for the attention of the African Institution, and the British 
government. 

*^ The island of Zanzebar, or Zinglebaus, (as it is called by the 
natives,) is situated between the latitudes of 5 deg. 40 min. and 6 
deg. 30 min. south, and between 39 and 40 deg. east longitude. It 
lies in a direction nearly N. N. E. and S. S.W. and is distant from 
fifteen to twenty miles from the continent. 

" There is an abundance of all the vegetables of tropical climes, 
which, with the fruits, are so bountifully supplied by nature, and re- 
quire so little assistance from man, that the agriculture of the island 
is chiefly confined to clearing the ground from an exuberant vegeta- 
tion not alimentary. Poultry is plentiful and cheap, a' Spanish dollar 
being the price of sixteen large fowls. The harbour and coasts of the 
island yield abundance of delicious fish of great variety. 

" Supplement to the 15th Report, page 66—68. 
c 2 



55 EAST COAST OF AFRICA. ^ 

" The population is computed to be 200,000, consisting of natives', 
Kegro slaves, and Arabs; the last not amounting to more than 2000, 
the slaves to about 150,000; some considerable Arab and native 
landholders possessing each from 200 to 400 of these unfortunate 
beings. It is comparatively happy for them, when their lot is cast 
in the service of an Arab, who is justly famed for his mild treatment 
of his slaves. He allows him a small habitation on his estate, exact- 
ing from him moderate labour, while the fertile soil yields him ample 
means of subsistence with little trouble. The poor Negro, therefore, 
under an Arab master, appears to enjoy ease and content. Numbers, 
unhappily, are differently situated ; and the account given by Captain 
Smee, of the East India Company's marines, who visited the island in 
1811, is sufficient to harrow the hardest heart. 

" A considerable number of merchants from Cutch and Scind occu- 
py the best houses in the town of Zanzebar, engross the greatest part 
of the slave-trade, and form the most opulent part of the community. 
The slaves are brought to the market-place early in the day; but the 
principal exhibition commences about three or four o'clock in the 
afternoon. They are ranged in a line, composed of both sexes, and 
all ages, beghming with the least and increasing to the rear, according 
to their size. To set them off to the best advantage, their skins are 
cleaned and burnished with oil, their faces painted with red and white 
stripes, their woolly hair plastered and filled with a yellow powder, 
esteemed among the poor creatures as a mark of beauty and ele- 
gance, their hands and feet ornamented with rings and bi'acelets, and 
round their loins is wrapped a new striped or plain coloured cloth. 
At the head of the file stand sthe proprietor, and on each side two or 
three of his domestic slaves armed as a guard. Thus arranged, the 
procession begins, and passes through the market-place and principal 
streets; the owner, in a sort of a song, sounding the good qualities 
of his slaves, and proclaiming the prices that he had been offered for 
them. 

" When one of them strikes a spectator's fancy, t1ie line is halted ; 
and an examination ensues, which, for minuteness, is not equalled in 
any cattle-market in Europe. The pui'chaser first ascertains that 
there is no defect in the faculties of speech or hearing, and takes the 
assurance of the seller, that the slave neither snores nor grinds his 



EAST COAST OF AFRICA. 87 

leeth in his sleep, uhich aie deemed great objections; and then lie 
proceeds with his examination. The mouth and teeth are inspected, 
and afterwards every part of the body in succession, not excepting 
those parts which a sense of decency in the most savage tribes con- 
ceals from vicwj and which perhaps the very slave so inspected would 
not expose without a blus!!, which tlie lighter cheek of his future mas- 
ter could not display, vlfter this, he is made to run ; and if there be 
no defect in tlic limbs, and no indication of any disease, the bargain is 
concluded. At the close of the day, the wretched beings who have 
been sold are stripped of their decorations, and sent to the houses oi' 
the purchasers. Women with infants hanging at their breasts, and 
others feeble from age, are thus seen marshalled and driven about the ' 
streets. Some groupes had been so ill fed, that their bones appeared 
as if they would penetrate the skin. Children of six years' old were 
sold for four, five, and six dollars. The value of a jiiime slave was 
about fifty, and that of a young girl sixty dollars. Women with in- 
fants did not fetch so high a price as those without them. 

" When a slave dies, his body is often allowed to putrify on the 
beach ; not a rag of cloth or handful of earth being laid over it. In 
consequence of this disgusting and revolting practice, the stench 
about the town is ii>CoIcrable ; and, co-opei"ating with the noxious 
effluvia arising from decayed vegetable matter, which floats down the 
stream in the rainy season, together with the filthiness of the low 
houses and narrow streets, tends to produce fevers and dysenteries, ' 
which make dreadful ravages among the inhabitants. In this, may 
not the hand of Providence be seen rendering the very objects of their 
cupidity the means of their destruction.^ 

" The various tribes of slaves brought annually to Zanzcbar for 
sale, (and of which 10,0U0 are supposed to be sent annually to India, 
Muscat, Bourbon, and the Isle of France,) could not be accurately de- 
scribed. The}'^ ar-e brought from the ecntinent, some, three months' 
journey from the coast: these are called Mechmacries, and their 
•country furnishes ivory and gold. The Meechcoos are two months 
in coming. The Mee-a-hoo, fifty days. The Mee-geer-doo, one 
month. The Gooroo, fifteen days. The Doai, ten days; and are 
said to be cannibals. The Jiggiea, four days; and the Morjeeir-bana, 
ihree. These are only a few of the different tribes -who inhabit the 
jcoimtry, directly inland from Zan/t'bar; the interior ol' \yhicli in 



38 , EAST COAST OF AFRICA. 

represented to be extremely fertile, and abounding with cattle and - 
elephants. 

" The town of Zanzebar is situated on the south-west side of the 
island : it is large, and chiefly composed of huts. The few store- 
houses which are seen, belong to the merchants of Cutch, Scind, and 
the Arab residents. The fort, which was of Portuguese construction, 
is a square building, with a tower at each corner, and a battery in an 
outwork towards the sea; in which are mounted four or five guns of 
large cahbre, and of French manufacture. The harbour of this beauti- 
ful island is capacious and excellent. The tides rise between two and 
three fathoms; and, at a small expense, docks might be constructed, 
capable of admitting ships of the largest burden. The sovereignty of 
the island belongs to the imaum of Muscat, who appoints at pleasure 
the hakeem or governor, his vizier, and three or four officers, who col- 
lect the customs, but maintains no description of military force. 

" The hakeem's slaves, amounting to about 500, are all armed, and 
serve as soldiers. He himself is an eunuch-slave of the imaum. His 
ruling passion is the love of power ; for the preservation of which he 
lives like a beggar: his savings and extortions being transmitted to 
Muscat as the price of his situation. The people who live under his 
government despise and detest him. 

" The trade here, (as in most of the ports on the east-coast of 
Africa,) is chiefly in the hands of the Arabs from Muscat and 
Maculla, and of adventurers from Scind, Cutch, and Surat. The 
principal imports are Surat -and Cambray cloths, to the value of 
twelve lacs of rupees annually; cotton, beads, sugar, grain, iron, and 
Jead. The exports consist of slaves, ivory, rhinoceros's hides and 
horns, cowries, wax, turtle-shells, &c. The value of the duties annu- 
ally collected, were computed to be 1 50,000 dollars ; and the rate 
paid is five per cent. 

" The ordinary annual nett revenue derived by the imaum from 
this possession, is 60,000 dollars ; but levies of money are frequently 
made upon the inhabitants, on various pretences : and when Captain 
Smee was there, a ship arrived from Muscat, M'ith a demand of 
25,000 dollars, for the avowed purpose of enabling the imaum to 
resist the ericroachments of the Wahabees; but the real object was 
supposed to be, to purchase a cargo for the very ship that brought the 
demand. An additional tax was immediately imposed ; and the 



EAST COAST OF AFRICA. S9 

.plndpal men of the district were ordered to collect it, and held 
responsible tor its pa3nnent, at a stated pei'iod, undjer pain of inrpri- 
sonment. Tiie Siirat tradci-s were on this occasion called upon to 
contribute 3500 dollars as their quota; but Captain Smee very pro- 
perly afforded them that protection to which tJiey were entitled from 
a Bi-itish officer, and remonstrated with the hakeem on th.e injustice 
of demanding any thing from these peaceable traders beyopd the 
^established duties of the port. 

" In March^ Ifill, when that officer was at Zanzebar, with two of 
the East India Companys cruisers, there were lying in the haibour, 
for the purpose of commerce, 5Q vessels of different sizes, containing 
about 10,000 tons. 

" In addition to these, 'numerous s-mall coasting craft are continu- 
ally arriving and departing. In some seasons 100 large dowhs 
have arrived there from India and Arabia. It must be very 
evident, from what has been already stated, that the slave-trade is 
not necessary to the prosperity of this island; that the com- 
mercial spirit of the place, if rightly directed, would find its l)e,st 
interest in the pursuit of other objects. The articles of import 
and export, of which a part has been enumerated, abundantly show 
that a very lucrative commerce mi^ht be prosecuted, untainted by the 
guilt of that nefarious and inhuman traffic. Along the whole range 
lof the eastern coast, there wili not be found a port, by its many ad- 
■V;antages, so inviting to commercial enterprise. 

^' It ought then to excite equal astonishment and regret, that an ex- 
tensive and populous island, so richly gifted by nature, and so ad- 
mirably adapted for commerce, the great and Sv-.ccessful means of 
■civilization, should be subjected to the dominion of a petty Moham- 
medan state, which, at the distance of 2000 miles, rules it with a 
contemptible band' of slaves, whilst it is unable to defend its pwn 
tenitories and eommerce from tlie attacks of its neighbours in the 
Persian Gulf. 

" But the first object which calls for attention, and which ought to 
engage the consideration of the British government in the East, is 
the abolition of the slave-trade ; a measure which, I ani confident, is 
easy of accomplishment. The imaum of Muscat is an old and steady 
ally of the East India Ccmp my, and, of late years, ha^ been indebted 
for his existence as a sovereign to theii" protection. His princiiml 



40 EAST COAST OF AFIUCA. 

ship for war and commerce was recently built in the company's dock- 
yard at Bombay ; and all his applications for supplies from the arse- 
nal are immediately granted. Indeed, the intimacy between the 
imaum and the Bombay governor has been such, and the confidence 
of this Mohammedan in Christian benevolence so great, that he has, 
(contrary to all usage,) been in the practice of sending his sister, to 
whom he was much attached, annually to Bombay with a large suite, 
there to pass some months for the benefit of her health. The British 
government, therefore, have only to express to the imaum their de- 
sire that the slave-trade at Zanzebar should cease; and I am confident 
that he would readily enter into a treaty with them for that purpose, 
and as readily agree, that the East India Company's vessels of war 
should enforce its execution. At all events, the trial should be at- 
tempted, and a beginning made to free the eastern coast of Africa 
from the dreadful scourge with which it continues to be afilicted*." 



The Boaj-d of Directors of the African Institutimi communicated 
the above Memoir to the Court of Directors of the East India Com- 
jjani/, who, in a disjjatch to the governor of Bombay, dated 11th of 
Mh mo. 1821, ivrite in the following terms : 

" We lately received from the president, vice-presidents, and 
directors of the African Institution, a letter and memoir respecting 
the slave-trade carried on at Zanzebar, on the east coast of Africa, a 
copy of which we transmit. 

" We take the earliest opportunity, in drawing your attention to 
this communication, of expressing our most cordial concurrence in the 
lienevolent views entertained by the respectable members of that 
Institution, and of communicating to you our directions, that every 
means of persuasion may be exerted by j^ou, witli the imaum of 
Muscat, to induce him to abolish this inhuman traffic within his pos- 
sessions ; and consent to such of his subjects, as may al'terwards en- 
gage in it, being considered and treated as pirates f." 



Fifteenth. Report of the African Institution. Appendix, page. 52—58, 
t Ditto, 03. 



/ ADDRESS TO THE KING. 41 

To these melancholy reports on the slave-trade, as carried on hy 
the subjects of European poivers, may be properly subjoined the JvlloW" 
ing Address to the King, which passed the House of Commons on 
the 27th of the 6tk month, 1821; the substance of which had been 
voted the preceding day, as a similar address from the House of 
Lords: — 

"resolved, nemine contradicente, 

" That an huilible address be presented to his majesty, represent- 
ing to his majesty, that in the various documents relative to the 
slave-trade, which, by his majesty's command, have been laid before 
the house, we find a renewed and most gratifying proof of the per- 
severing solicitude with which his majesty's government has laboured 
to meet the wishes of this house, and of the nation at large, by ef- 
fecting the entire and universal abolition of that guilty traffic: — that 
we learn from them, however, with the deepest regret, that his ma- 
jesty's unwearied efforts to induce various powers to perform their 
own solemn engagements, have not been more successful : 

" That, notv/ithstanding the deliberate denunciation by which the 
slave-trade was branded with infamy at the congress of Vienna, as a 
crime of the deepest dye, and notwithstanding the solemn determi- 
nation there expressed by all the great powers of Europe, to put an 
end to so enormous an evil ; nevertheless, that this trade is still car- 
ried on, to an extent scarcely ever before surpassed, by the subjects, 
and even under the flags, of some of the very powers which were 
parties to those declarations : — A dispatch of a more encouraging 
tenor, from his majesty's commissioner and the chief criminal judge 
at Sierra Leone, has indeed been very recently communicated to 
this House, but we have too much reason to fear that the hopes ex- 
pressed, in that communication aie far too sanguine, and even the 
papers previously in our possession contain intelligence of a most 
painfully opposite nature: 

" That the trade, faithful to its malignant character, is still pro- 
ductive of the same destructive effects as heretofore : — nay, though 
in the conduct of this detested traffic, every form of inhumanity 
might be supposed to have been already exhausted, yet of late it had 
been attended with unprecedented enormities : 



42 ADDRESS TO THE KINO, 

" That we lament deeply our not having experienced the cordial 
.co-operation which we might on every ground have so reasonably 
.expected from the court of the Netherlands :-— We have witnessed, 
however, with great satisfaction, the strenuous and able exertionsL 
with which the king's ministers at that court has followed up the 
instructions of his majesty's government, in contending for the just 
construction of our treaties with that power: — And we cannot but 
hope that commercial nation will feel the duty and necessity of adopt- 
ing a poliej'^ more consonant at once to the principles of justice and 
humanity, and to the dearest obligations of good faith towards her 
most ancient and steady ally; 

*' That we have seen with extreme regret the slave-trade carried 
on of late j'ears by Spain to an extent before unparalleled; and also, 
that the local government of the Havannah has shown an evident 
indisposition to employ the means recently stipulated for its re^ 
pression; but the time having at length arrived when Spain solemnly 
engaged that all Spanish slave-trade should cease absolutely and for 
ever; that high-minded people, we cannot but feel confident, will 
prove faithful to their engagement, and will be induced cordially to 
anite with us in promoting the effectual and universal extinction of 
the trade, by every civilized power: 

" That we cannot contemplate the conduct of the court of Portu^ 
gal, with respect to the slave-trade, without the deepest concern : — ^ 
That court, indeed, though not calling in question the true nature 
and effects of the slave-trade, forbore, even at Viennii, complj'ing 
■with the earnest request of all the other European powers, that she 
would name some fixed period for the termination of the trade : — 
Even the treaty by which she engaged to abolish the slave-trade to 
the north of the line has been little regarded ; and to this day, though 
every form of entreaty has been exhausted by the great European 
powers, not the smallest hope is held out to us of the total abolition 
of the trade : — Under these circumstances, we cannot but think 
that both Great Britain, and the other powers assembled in congress 
at Vienna, would not be faithful to their high obligations and en- 
gagements, if they were any longer to rest satisfied with mere 
entreaties and remonstrances, which experience compels us to believe 
would be of no effect ; and we are necessarily led to revert to the 
■suggestion which was countenanced by the high contracting powers 



FROM THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 43 

at the negotiation at Vienna, of excluding from commercial inter- 
course with their respective dominions, any state which should per- 
tinaciously refuse to abolish the slave-trade, after it should have 
been prohibited by all other nations: — We are impelled, however, 
reluctantly to entreat his majesty to endeavour to induce those 
powers to carry the above suggestion into effect, and at least to 
prohibit the importation into their dominions of the produce of any 
colonies belonging to the crown of Portugal, so long as she shall con- 
tinue thus to set herself in. direct opposition to the moral feelings and 
concurrent wishes of all the Christian powers, and to defeat every 
hope of the civilization and improvement of Africa : 

" That we contemplate with far different feelings the conduct of 
the United States of America: not only have their cruisers been 
actively employed, in co-operation with our own, in suppressing the 
slave-trade on the coast of Africa, but an act has been passed by 
congress, which places the slave-trade i)i the list of j)iracies, and 
subjects to capital punishment all citizens of the United States who 
shall be found to engage in it ; that in witnessing the conduct of the 
legislature of the United States on this occasion, we are led to re- 
flect with grateful exultation on our common origin, and on those 
common laws and institutions, whose liberal spirit has prompted our 
American brethren to be among the very foremost in thus stamping 
on a traffic in tlie persons of our fellow-creatures its just character 
and designation: — And we cannot but express our earnest hopes, 
that not only we ourselves shall speedily follow so honourable an 
example, but that the day is not far distant when, by the general 
concurrence of all civilized nations, this detestable traffic shall be 
pronounced to be piratical, to be an offence against all human kind, 
which all are intitied and bound by duty to suppress : 

" That from the gratifying contemplation of the zeal manifested 
by the United States to promote the cause of humanity, we turn 
with feelings of the most painful disappointment to France, by some 
of whose subjects the slave-trade has been for some time carried on 
to an unprecedented extent, along the whole range of the western 
coast of Africa ; and whose flag not only protects her own subjects 
in their criminal enterprises, but serves to protect the subjects' also 
of other powers, v/Iio engage in this commerce, but who are pre- 



44 ADDRESS TO THE KING, ' ' 

Vented by the vigilance of British cruisers from finding any shelter 
under the flags of their own countries : 

"That we are bound by every consideration of duty and feeling 
to take an especial interest in the fate of those countries, now pos- 
sessed by France on the African continent, which were restored to 
her don:]inion by Great Britain : — And we cannot reflect without the 
deepest pain, that whereas while under our protection tliey not only 
enjoyed a temporaiy respite from their miseries, but were beginning 
to enjoy the security and comfort arising from the exercise of a 
peaceful industry, and of a legitimate commerce; the renewal of tlie 
slave-trade, which almost nrjinediately followed their cession to 
France, has utterly blasted these delightful prospects, and has again 
consigned these unhappy countries to rapine and anarchy, to bari'en- 
ness and desolation: — That we cannot believe, if the opprobrious facts 
of the case were fully known in France, that so great and gallant a 
people, blessed by the bounty of Providence with all that can render 
a nation powerful and prosperous, would tolerate the prostitution of 
its flag to such base and flagitious pui-poses, or would stoop to take 
«p and prosecute a ti'affic which so many other powers had indig- 
nantly abandoned on account of its incurable wickedness and cru- 
elty :— more especially when its real nature and effects have been 
unquestionably established ; v.'hen the French legislature has decreed 
the entire abolition of the trade; and when their sovereign Iiimself^ 
under his own hand, has solemnly pledged himself to join with his 
majesty in effecting the extinction of a traffic, which, to use his own 
emphatic language, ' tends to the destruction of mankind:' — That 
notwithstanding the sacred obligations thus contracted by France, 
so numerous and so flagrant have recently been the unpunished 
violations of her engagements, that, but for the •confidence we wish 
ever to repose in the upright intentions of those who administer her 
affairs, we should find it veiy difficult to believe that these viola- 
tions could have taken place without their knowledge and con- 
nivance : and we must have been compelled to suspect, that some 
partial interests, or some mistaken views of polic}', liad interfered to 
prevent the faithful performance of duties, to the fulfilment of which 
they are solemnly bound, not only by the mpst sacred obligations 
of religion and morality, but by the pledged faith of their govern*, 
mcut, and even by the personal honour of their sovereign : 



FROM THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 45 

'' That we therefore entreat his majesty seriously to represent ,to 
the court of France, how deeply the credit and reputation of the 
French government are involved in tliese transactions, and that 
iiis majesty will be graciously pleased to renew the most earnest 
efforts, to induce them to make good their various solemn engage- 
ments on this subject, and in particular, to fulfil the promise re- 
centlj'- given, to employ new and more efficient restraints, and call 
into action fresh penal sanctions, in order effectually to prevent 
the carryiiig on, by French subjects, of this odious and disgraceful 
traffic: 

" That while we thus entreat his majesty to concert with other 
powers the means of carrying into complete effect this great cause, 
we are not merely prompted by a sense of what is due to the general 
obligations of justice and humanity : — we cannot but feel that to 
Afiiva. we owe a debt which conscience and honour oblige us to 
repay : — And though we congratulate his majesty on the generous 
zeal which Great Britain has manifested, and the costly sacrifices 
she has made, in vindicating in this instance the rights and happi- 
of our fellow-creatures, yet we cannot reflect without remorse that 
we ourselves were too long among the very foremost in carrying on 
this guilty commerce: 

" Since we are now aware of its real character, it beconies us 
to be earnest and incessant in our endeavours to impress the 
truth on others who may have been misled by our example:— 
And as we contributed so largely to prolong the misery and 
barbarism of the Africans, we should now be proportionably 
earnest in using the means with which Providence has endowed 
us, for promoting their civilization and happiness/' 



4(5 SUSSCRlPTIONS. 

The Jbllowing Minnte of^the Committee, with the subjoined idaie'^ 
fnent, may^ suitably close the present communication to the Subscribers :—* 

Minute of the Committee of the Meeting for Sufferings^ 
\Uh of 11th Mo. 1821. 

The Committee may embrace this opportunity of 
informing the Subscribers, that they have been en- 
gaged in considering various ways by which the object 
of their appointment may be answered. Among these 
is the printing for their own distribution, an edition, 
in French, of the " Cries of Africa," as that pamphlet 
is now printed in the French language. They are also 
about to make a selection of a few striking facts, ex- 
hibiting the cruelties of the trade, and to form them 
into a tract to be translated into French. They pro- 
pose to procure, as early as possible, a translation of 
Thomas Clarkson's tract into Spanish ; and they are 
endeavouring to diffuse information on the continent, 
through the medium of the foreign newspapers and 
journals. 



Amount of Subscriptions hitherto received. 



&. s. d> 

Bedfordshire and Herts Quarterly Meeting 28 7 

Berks and Oxon ditto 45 13 

Bristol and Somersetshire ditto ..,,..%, 124 2 6 

Buckinghamshire ditto 35 15 



Carried forward .... 'iZZ 17 6 



StrBSCRIPTIONS. 



47 



£. *. d. 

Brought forward 233 17 6 

Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire Quarterly Meeting 10 1 6 6 

Cheshire and Staffordshire ditto 12 

Cornwall ditto 23 1 1 6 

Derbyshire and Notts ditto 12 18 

Devonshire ditto 26 2 7 

Dorset and Haijts ditto. 

Shaftesbury and Sherborne Monthly Meeting . . 10 

Durham Quarterly Meeting 70 5 6 

Essex ditto 67 

Gloucester and Wilts ditto ,- 33 

Herefordshire and Worcestershire ditto .32 2 6 

Kent ditto 17 6 

Lancashire ditto l6l 14 6 

Lincolnshire ditto. 

Gainsborough Monthly Meeting 4 4 

Broughton ditto 3 4 

London and Middlesex Quarterly Meeting 298 7 6 

Norfolk and Norwich ditto 49 14 

Northamptonshire ditto ..«-.. 6 7 

Suffolk ditto 19 3 6 

Sussex and Surrey ditto 23 8 

Warwickshire, Leicestershire, and Rutland ditto 65 1 6 

Westmorland ditto 20 19 6 

Yorkshire ditto 205 1 7 6 

Wales. 

Shropshire Monthly Meeting 9 13 

Carmarthensh. and Glamorgansh. ditto 10 10 

• 20 3 

A Friend, per George Jones 10 

A ditto, per William Allen , , 5 

Sundry smaller Subscriptions 8 5 

£.1450 3 7 



48 SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

M B. The Committee have reason to beHeve, that some of the; 
subscriptions sent up were designed to be donations; but that the 
greater part were raised as annual subscriptions : the distinction can- 
not be readily ascertained. 

Of the foregoing sum, £.100 has been appropriated as stated in 
the Report of the Committee, (see p. 2.) Of the balance, £. 1000 is, 
at present, placed out at interest. 



THE END. 



Printed hj Harvey^ Dartott, S[ Co. 
Gracechurch-Strcet, London. 



