t 



C I R£U L AjR. 

Great Meeting -at-Faneuil Hall, for aboli&r Slaveii 



U~ 






Slavery from the District of Columbia. 



A large and overwhelming Meeting of the citizens of 
Boston and vicinity was held in the old Cradle of Liber- 
ty, on Friday evening, Jan. 28, 1842, favorable to the 
immediate abolition of Slavery in the District of Colum- 
bia. The Meeting was called to order by Francis 
Jackson, and, on motion of Edmund Quincy, 

William Lloyd Garrison was unanimously called 
to the Chair. 

On motion, Voted, That there be chosen six Vice 
Presidents, to be nominated by the Chair. The follow- 
ing persons were then chosen, viz : 

Francis Jackson, } 
. Joseph Southwick, > Of Massachusetts. 
George Bradburn, ) 
Col. J. P. Miller, of Vermont. 
Nathaniel P. Rogers, of New Hampshire. 
James Cannings Fuller, of New York. 

The following persons were then appointed Secreta- 
ries, viz: 

William Bassett, of Lynn, 
Charles Lenox Remond, of Salem, 
Henry W. Williams, of Boston. 

The Chairman said he would beg leave to present to 
the Meeting, for their consideration, the following Res- 
olutions, which expressed the feelings of his own bosom, 
and the spirit of which he thought should animate the 
bosom of every friend of Liberty : 

1. Resolved, That inasmuch as the District of Colum- 
bia is neither a part nor under .the control of any one 
State, but belongs to the people of the United States, and 
is under the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress in all ca- 
ses~whatsoever, it follows that, for the existence of slavery 
in that District, Congress and the people of the United 
States are directly responsible ; and at any moment they 
Cftn constitutionally abolish it. 

2. Resolved, That, in the awful name of the God of 
nations, and by every consideration of justice, humanity 
and religion, we call upon Congress immediately to 
break the fetters and to undo the heavy burdens which 
that body has made, and to let the oppressed go free'', in 
the aforesaid District ; and to give no countenance or 
protection to slavery in any part of the republic. 

3. Resolved, That the refusal of Congress to receive 
the petitions of the people, in relation to this great na- 
tional iniquity and curse, is an act of high-handed usur- 
pation, flagrantly unconstitutional, and not to be endur- 
ed by a free people ; and, if persisted in much longer, 
must necessarily lead to the most deplorable consequen- 
ces. 



4. Resolved, That the insolent rejection, by Congress, 
of the resolutions of the Legislatures of Vermont and 
Massachusetts, in relation to slavery in the District of 
Columbia, is a bold denial of the sovereignty of those 
States, a most alarming precedent in the legislation of 
the country, and a plain demonstration of the fact, that 
northern liberty is but the football of the slaveholding 
power. 

5. Resolved, That the Legislatures of Vermont and 
Massachusetts cannot tamely submit to such indignities 
without great criminality, and the exhibition of a cow- 
ardly and truckling spirit; and that, by their allegiance 
to the principles of the Constitution, by a -due regard 
to their own character, and by the respect which they 
entertain for their own constituents, they are bound to 
enter a solemn protest against this despotic procedure, 
and to warn Congress to pause before again perpetra- 
ting it in the manner aforesaid. 

6. Resolved, That the thanks of the friends of liberty, 
universally, and especially in Massachusetts, are due to 
John Quincy Adams, for his bold, faithful and indefati- 
gable advocacy of the right of petition, under circum- 
stances of great difficulty and peril; and that the Secre- 
taries of this meeting be requested to forward a copy of 
this resolution to Mr. Adams, in the name of this meet- 
ing, as a slight token of its high appreciation of his con- 
duct in such an emergency, and of its determination to 
sustain him in every constitutional effort that he may 
make in favor of the rights of man, irrespective of com- 
plexional differences. 

7. Resolved, That when the Senators and Representa- 
tives of this Commonwealth, in Congress, find them- 
selves deprived of the liberty of speech on its floor, and 
prohibited from defending the right of their constituents 
to petition that body in a constitutional manner, they 
ought at once to withdraw, and return to their several 
homes, leaving the people of Massachusetts to devise 
such ways and means for a redress of their grievances 
as they shall deem necessary. 

8. Resolved, That the union of Liberty and Slavery, 
in one just and equal compact, is that which it is not in 
the power of God or men to achieve, because it is a mor- 
al impossibility, as much as the peaceful amalgamation 
of fire and gunpowder ; and, therefore, the American 
Union is such only in form, but not in substance — a hjl- /)/ 
low mockery instead of a glorious reality. 

9. Resolved, That if the South be madly bent upon 
perpetuating her atrocious slave system, and thereby 



X 



I 






-.*:■ 



/ 



s 



A \ 



^ 



^ 



destroying the liberty of speech and of the press, and 
striking down the rights of northern citizens, the time is 
rapidly approaching when the American Union will he 
dissolved in form as it is now in fact. 

10. Resolved, That until Massachusetts ceases to give 
her countenance and support to the Southern slave sys- 
tem, by allowing the slave hunter to seize his prey on 
her soil, and by conceding that a man may be a thing, 
an article of merchandise, she is to be regarded as recre- 
ant to the cause of freedom and humanity, and her peo- 
ple as an organized body of conspirators against the 
rights of man. 

1 1 . Resolved,, That Massachusetts must wash her 
hands of all participation in the enslavement of any por- 
tion of the human race, in this or any other country. 

12. Resolved, That the people of this Commonwealth 
should flood both houses of the State Legislature at its 
next session, with petitions, calling on them to pass a 
declaratory law that no slave can breathe on the soil 
of Massachusetts, and that every bondman shall become 
free on arriving within her jurisdiction. 

The adoption of the above Resolutions was moved 
and advocated by Edmund Quincy, who was followed 
by Col. J. P. Miller, of Vermont — George Brabburn, 
of Nantucket — Frederick Douglas, a fugitive slave — 
James Cannings Fuller, of Western New York — Mr. 
Emmons — Wendell Phillips, of Boston — and Charles 
Lenox Remond, of Salem — whose eloquent and thrill- 
ing speeches were constantly interrupted by loud and 
enthusiastic bursts of applause. 

The resolutions were adopted by an almost unani- 
mous vote, and in the most impressive manner. 

The Irish Address, signed by Daniel O'Connell,. 
Father Maihew, and sixty thousand other Irishmen, to 
the Irish residents in the United States,calling upon them 
unitedly to espouse the Anti-Slavery cause, and to identi- 
fy themselves with the American Abolitionists, was then; 
read by the Chairman, and was received by the im- 
mense assemblage with cheers and loud acclamations 
of applause. A large number of the Irish inhabitants of 
Boston and vicinity were present, who responded to the 
sentiments of the Address, and to those which were ut- 
tered by the various speakers, in the most enthusiastic 
manner. 

Wendell Phillips offered the following resolutions, 
which he very eloquently advocated, and which were 
adopted by acclamation : , 



Resolved, That we rejoice that the voice of O'CON- 
NELL, which now shakes the three ^.«ne*doms, has 
poured across the waters a thunder-peal foi the cause \^ 
of Liberty in our own land; and that Father Ma'tjlew,VSo 
having lifted, with one hand, five millions of his own 
countrymen into moral life, has stretched forth the oth- ** 
er — which may Heaven make equally potent — to smite 
off the fetters of the American slave. 

Resolved, That we receive, with the deepest gratitude, 
the names of the sixty thousand Irishmen, who, in the 
trial-hour of their own struggle for liberty, have not for- 
gotten the slave on this side the water; that we accept, 
with triumphant exultation, the Address they have for- 
warded to us, and pledge ourselves to circulate it through 
the length and breadth of our land, till the pulse of eve- 
ry man, and specially every man who claims Irish pa- 
rentage, beats true to the claims of patriotism and hu- 
manity. 

The following resolution was offered by George Brad- 
burn, and adopted with great enthusiasm: 

Resolved, That this Meeting most cordially wishes 
Old Ireland success, in all her righteous efforts to re- 
deem the Emerald Isle from every species of British op- 
pression, and especially in the grand movement ©fDAN- 
IEL O'CONNELL, for the repeal of the fraudulent act 
of Union between his country and England. 

On motion of Edmund Quincy, 

Voted, That the proceedings of this meeting be 
printed, and signed by the officers of this meeting, and 
copies transmitted to Daniel O^Connell, and Theobald 
Matthew, and to our Senators and Representatives in 
Congress, with a request that they be laid before that 
body — also, that they be published in the papers of this 
city. -^ ▼"■ 

Charles Lenox Remond moved that me thanks of the 
assembly be presented to the Mayor and Aldermen, for 
the use of this Hall on this occasion. The motion was 
adopted, and the meeting was then dissolved — after 
which nine cheers were given for the cause of liberty and 
emancipation.yjlt is estimated that not less than four 
thousand persons were present on the occasion. ^f 

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Ch'm. 



Wm. Bassett, 
Cf. L. Remond, 
H. W. Williams. 



Secretaries. 



Boston, Jan. 29, 1842, 



/ 



P 






A 



:■', 



K 



<& 



« 



as 



