FIFTH 



ASS'HWiv.Hj IIiIiI?®IliE^ 



OF THE 



BOSTON FEMALE 



^srsnaffliLjii'wiiiE^ ©©©nas'S'o 



God settetli the solitary in families ; he bringeth out those that are BOUND 
WITH CHAINS.— Psaim b.viii. 6. 

They that trust in the Lord shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be re- 
moved, but abideth forever.— PsaZm cxxv. 1. 



BOSTON: 

PRINTED BY ISAAC KNAPP, 

25, CORNHILL. 
1838. 



REPORT. 



In presenting the fifth Annual Report of the 
Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, we feel 
that the language of holy David may be adopted 
with peculiar propriety : — If it had not been the 
Lord who was on our side, now may we say ; if 
it had not been the Lord who was on our side 
when men rose up against us; — then the waters 
had overwhelmed us ; the stream had gone over 
our souls. But, blessed be the Lord who hath 
not given us a prey to their teeth ; for our help 
is in the Lord who made heaven and earth. We 
rejoice in this name — it has been our confidence 
and hope, amid all the scenes through which we 
have been led during the past year. 

We have been called very recently, to lament 
the death of the amiable wife of our highly es- 
teemed friend, Rev. A. A. Phelps. She was one 
of the twelve who first met to ask direction of 



heaven in relation to our duty to the perishing 
slave, and was the first President of our Society. 
But consumption seized her, and she v^^as permit- 
ted to fill the office only a few months. Though 
unable to attend our meetings, and aid by her ju- 
dicious counsel our deliberations, she was no less 
with us in heart, eagerly inquiring after our suc- 
cess, and we doubt not, breathing earnest suppli- 
cations for us, at the footstool of mercy. Hers 
was the death of the righteous. Softly were the 
pins of this tabernacle taken out, and she permit- 
ted to drink of that fulness of joy, in reserve for 
the faithful. We cannot better describe the clos- 
ing scene than by giving a few extracts from mem- 
oranda taken by her husband, and handed us a 
few weeks after her decease. "^ They show the 
blessedness of a hope in the Redeemer, in that 
hour which rends the flesh and spirit apart, and 
the consolation derived from a quiet resignation 
of soul to the divine will. Her name is cherish- 
ed by us as one who deeply sympathised in the 
sorrows of the wretched and oppressed. Let us 
endeavor to imitate her, who through faith and 
patience is, we doubt not, possessed of the re- 
wards of victory. 

*See Appendix. 



We should do violence to our feelings, did we 
forbear to mention, in this connection, the sorrow 
of one, who, though not a member of our partic- 
ular Society, yet from her identification with the 
cause of mercy, has received our hearts' deepest 
sympathy. We refer to the wife of the departed 
Lovejoy. Yes, we have been called to look into 
the grave with one who has been widowed, and 
the son of her bosom made an orphan, by the 
hand of violence. Hers is no common sorrow. 
Deeply were our hearts stirred within us, as we 
read the lines written in blood, that the Priests 
of slavery had lain upon their altar that champion 
of free discussion, the fearless Lovejoy. Alas ! 
for the blindness of those, who, with hands red 
all over with the blood of their victims, reiterate 
the cry, ^ The North has nothing to do with sla- 
very '/ A letter of sympathy was forwarded to 
her, expressive of our affliction in her grief, and 
our earnest desire that the God of the disconso- 
late might be her refuge and support.* 

The Constitution of our Society provides, that 
the funds of the Society shall be appropriated, 
not only to the dissemination of truth on the sub- 
ject of slavery, but also for the improvement of 

* Se« Appendix. 



the moral and intellectual character of the color- 
ed population. In accordance with this last pro- 
vision, we have contributed 50 dollars during the 
past year for the support of the Samaritan Asy- 
lum for indigent colored children. This Asylum 
was established in view of the wants of colored 
orphans, who have no shelter but the public poor- 
house. It has hitherto been supported by annu- 
al subscriptions and donations, from charitable 
societies and individuals of all denominations and 
parties. It is greatly in need of permanent assist- 
ance, and recommends itself to all who wish to 
bless the widow and orphan, with the abundance 
of which God hath made them stewards. Need 
it be added, this institution is one of the most eco- 
nomical ways of doing good. It is a preventive 
of crime. By taking these children from the 
abodes of sin, and bringing them under the health- 
ful influence of virtue and religion, they are 
snatched from those paths which lead to the cham- 
bers of death, fitted for usefulness here, and for 
eternal blessedness in a world of glory. We are 
persuaded, that that portion of the funds of the 
Society appropriated annually to the moral and 
intellectual improvement of the colored popula- 
tion, could not be more judiciously applied, than 
by being placed in the treasury of this Society. 



At the commencement of the year, the Socie- 
ty subscribed for fifty copies of the Liberator, to 
be distributed in various towns in the State. 
From many of these, we have had most cheering 
accounts of the good effect produced by this ef- 
fort. Societies have been formed and an interest 
excited, where before but little had been thought 
or felt on the subject. Its soul-stirring truths and 
affecting appeals to the hearts and consciences of 
its readers, cannot fail to silence the cavils of the 
sceptical, and bring into action all the nobler 
feelings of the soul. 

In October last, a committee was appointed to 
invite Sarah M. and Angelina E. Grimke to lec- 
ture before the Society. The committee report- 
ed at a subsequent meeting, that these ladies had 
consented to address the Society, and that they 
had engaged the Odeon for that purpose, at 20 
dollars per evening. By giving the public an op- 
portunity of hearing these devoted sisters plead 
the cause of the oppressed, we cherished the hope 
that the good seed sown by them would spring 
up and bring forth fruit, and we trust we have not 
been disappointed. 

The spacious and commodious edifice, from the 
loftiest gallery to the pit,* was crowded with in- 

* Once a Theatre; now a place of religious worship. 



8 

tensely Interested auditors. Never could there be 
a more sublime spectacle than was presented in this 
assembly. It seemed to us impossible for any heart 
that heard the burning words which fell from their 
lips, to remain unmoved. To behold individuals 
who had been nurtured in the lap of slavery, 
feasted upon its bitter fruits, and attended only 
by those who had been reduced to the lev- 
el of brutes to pamper their appetites, — to be- 
hold such stand forth before assembled thousands, 
with lifted hands and streaming eyes, beseeching 
mercy and commiseration for these same defence- 
less ones, was indeed a sight at which angels 
might rejoice. They spoke of that which they 
had seen, that which they had looked upon, that 
which they had handled, of slavery's bitterness — 
of broken hearts, of sorrows which none may con- 
ceive save those that feel them— of tender babes 
torn from agonizing mothers — of fond wives from 
affectionate husbands, and the severing of all those 
ties that the Father of love has implanted in the 
breast of every human being. The Statesman, 
the Politician, the Minister of religion, the zeal- 
ous advocate for the defenceless, as well as the 
cold and calculating Theorist, all had their por- 
tion, their word of reproof, of warning or encour- 
agement. No individual can form any just con- 



ception of the scene presented on those occasions 
without having been a Hstener to their words of 
truth and matchless eloquence. At the next 
quarterly meeting of the Society, the following 
resolutions were unanimously adopted : 

1st. Resolved, That the course pursued, during the last year, by 
Sarah M. and Angelina E. Grimke, meets with our entire and cor- 
dial approbation, and that in view of the erroneous opinions and 
popular prejudices that obtain, in reference to the sphere and duties 
of women, we feel grateful that God has so signally sustained and 
blessed their efforts; thereby affording strength and encouragement 
to all women threughout the world, who may (eel called to advo- 
cate publicly any cause of humanity. 

2d. Resolved, That the members of this Society respectfully and 
earnestly request Sarah M. Grimke to renew her labors in Massa- 
chusetts as early as may suit her convenience, pledging themselves 
to sustain and aid her by every means in their power. 

In January 3d, at a Board meeting of the So- 
ciety, it was voted that a petition be circulated, 
praying for the rescinding of the vote of Mr. Pat- 
ton in -Congress, for the petitions for the abolition 
of slavery in the District of Columbia to be laid 
upon the table. That petition was signed by a 
considerable number of individuals, and sent to 
Congress in January last. Alas ! for our coun- 
try, that it has produced a man, whose soul is 
proof against the tears and groans of thousands of 
torn and lacerated bosoms ; bosoms bereft of eve- 
ry joy, and cherishing no hope save that present- 
ed by the cold grave, where ^the servant is free 
from his master,' What spectacle of human na- 



10 

ture can be more lamentable, than of one calling 
himself man, refusing to listen to the prayer of 
wretchedness the most abject, of grief the most 
unutterable, and sorrow that admits not of a par- 
allel ? 

At the Quarterly Meeting in April, four dele- 
gates were appointed to attend the Convention of 
American women, to be held in the city of Phil- 
adelphia in the ensuing month. One of the mem- 
bers of the society, Mrs. D. L. Child, was appoint- 
ed to write an Address to colored Americans, it 
having been suggested by the Philadelphia soci- 
ety that such an Address would be suitable to be 
brought before the Convention. Another docu- 
ment was also prepared by her to Northern Leg- 
islators, both of which were accepted by the Con- 
vention, and published by them for circulation. 
The society were deeply interested in this Con- 
vention, anticipating much good from such a gath- 
ering of warm hearts from various portions of our 
land. The delegates were assured of the prayers 
and sympathies of those whom they represented, 
and we need not now say, our heads were cover- 
ed in the day of battle, and our souls supported 
in that scene of misrule and commotion. In one 
of the first Reports of the society, our language 
was as follows : ' This holy cause may cost treas- 



11 



Lire, it may cost the lives of some who are stand- 
ing in the front of this conflict ; but, be that as it 
may, the treasure is ready, the life is ready.'' 
Your delegates did not know but that was 
the hour when this sacrifice would be required. 
They, however, did not shrink from duty in this 
time of trial, but having obtained help of God 
were enabled to perform the work assigned them, 
as the following account of their labors will tes- 
tify. 

The Convention commenced its meetings on 
Tuesday, May 15, in the committee-room of the 
Pennsylvania Hall. The meeting was opened by 
reading the scriptures and prayer by the Presi- 
dent of our society, she being nominated to the 
Chair. After the transaction of some preliminary 
business, an adjournment was proposed and ac- 
cepted, in consequence of the inconvenience of 
the room, it not being large enough to contain the 
delegates, the saloon of the building in which they 
had hoped to assemble, being occupied by the 
Pennsylvania Society. Wednesday, the 16th, 
the Convention met in Temperance Hall. Much 
important business was transacted this day, as 
may be seen by the minutes that have been pub- 
lished. At 3 o'clock, a motion was made to ad- 
journ, to meet at 10 o'clock on Thursday, in the 



12 

Pennsylvania Hall, which motion was seconded 
and carried. In the evening of Wednesday, a 
meeting was held in the Pennsylvania Hall, at 
which M. W. Chapman, Angelina E. G. Weld, 
Abby Kelly, Esther Moore, and Lucretia Mott, 
took part as speakers. At this meeting, a mob of 
several thousands collected round the Hall and 
caused much excitement, by breaking the win- 
dows, and otherwise injuring the building. But 
the speakers went quietly on, heeding not the 
clamor of these supporters of the foul system of 
slavery, who would fain have silenced those who 
stood forth to plead the cause of the forsaken. 
The meeting adjourned at quarter before 10, and 
the audience, which was not less than three thou- 
sand, passed out of the house amid the execra- 
tions of a host who had vainly attempted to put 
them to silence by stones and other missiles. But 
they did not thus appreciate the blessing of lib- 
erty. It was too valuable to be sacrificed at such 
a time and on such an occasion. 

Thursday at 10 o'clock, the Convention met 
according to adjournment. At this early hour, a 
considerable number of individuals had assembled 
around the building, * to break up the meeting,' 
as they said. 

During the morning session, which continued 
till one o'clock, a constant noise and tumult was. 



13 

heard without, but all was peace within. We 
commended ourselves to our Father in prayer, 
and felt that the name of the Lord was a strong 
tower, into which we could run and be safe. At 
1 o'clock, the Convention adjourned to meet at 
4, P. M. The business committee, consisting of 
20, held a meeting during the intermission, to 
make preparation for the next session. Near 
the close of the meeting of the committee, one 
of their number was called out and a note handed 
her, written her by her brother, beseeching her, if 
she valued her life, not to attempt to attend the 
afternoon session, as he felt confident, from what 
he had seen of the excitement in the city, that 
the mob which had surrounded the Hall during 
the morning, were prepared to do all possible 
violence, if a meeting was held in the afternoon ; 
and added, that placards had been posted in va- 
rious parts of the city, calling upon all good citi- 
zens to do their utmost, to put down the incen- 
diaries and fanatics. She immediately answered 
his note by thanking him for his interest in her 
welfare, but at the same time assured him, that 
the principles which she and her friends advo- 
cated were too valuable to be thus surrendered ; 
and added, that if victims to these holy principles 
were required, our blood might as well flow as 
that of others. 2 



14 

At this information, the question went from 
heart to heart, Am I prepared to die for the 
bleeding slave, — for the cause of my master ? It 
was a solemn moment, — every heart felt it ; not 
a word was said, — every knee was simultaneously 
bowed, and the effectual, fervent prayer went 
up, that God might be glorified, and we enabled 
to stand firm to the principles of Liberty and 
Truth. There we dedicated ourselves afresh to 
God and this holy cause, and as the voice ceased, 
of one who led in prayer, we felt that we were 
strengthened, and went forth firmly resolved to 
do the work assigned us, and leave the event with 
him. We returned to the Hall, found it sur- 
rounded by a vast concourse of people, apparent- 
ly from every grade of society. We pressed our 
way through the crowd, amid the hisses and im- 
precations of many whom we had but a few mo- 
ments before been pleading with God to pity and 
forgive. We looked upon them with compassion, 
as immortal beings, destined to the judgment 
with ourselves, and soon to receive the reward 
of their deeds. 

The afternoon session was opened and the 
business went on rapidly, though at times it was 
almost impossible to hear the voices of the 
speakers, in consequence of the deafening cries 



15 

of the multitude without. At the close, a mo- 
tion was made to adjourn, to meet at Temperance 
Hall at 9 o'clock on the following day, which was 
seconded and carried. In pressing through the 
crowd, after leaving the Hall, we were assailed 
with Stones, Mud, Potatoes, Onions, and what- 
ever first came to hand to these defenders of the 
Constitution. The business committee held a 
meeting immediately, in order to prepare for 
the ensuing day. We accordingly repaired 
to the house of a friend, not far distant from the 
Hall. Before the business of the Convention 
was taken up, several members led in fervent 
prayer, that God would strengthen us for the trials 
yet to come, and give us grace to stand in the 
evil hour. Just before 9 o'clock, a messenger 
came and informed the members present that 
the Hall had been set on fire, and would soon 
be burned to the ground. All said, it is well — it 
shall work together for good to the slave. Soon 
after, another came, begging us to adjourn, as 
the mob were every moment expected to attack 
the house in which we were assembled — the 
resident (Mr. Wood) being well known as an 
abolitionist. We, however, felt that we could 
not adjourn till the business was completed, un- 
less the mob entered the room where we were 



16 

silting. After the business was closed, we ad- 
journed, to meet at 8 o'clock the next morning. 
We bade each other farewell, not knowing that 
we should meet again, till we saw each other in 
the world of spirits. We gazed upon one anoth- 
er, not in fear and trembling, but in quietness of 
spirit, rejoicing in being counted worthy to suffer 
shame for the name of our Savior, trusting that 
he would accept the sacrifice, were we willing to 
lay down our lives for our brethren and sisters in 
bonds. As we passed through the street, we 
saw the fragments of our late beautiful Hall, 
mingling with the clouds of heaven, and we could 
not forbear applying the appropriate words of 
the prophet of tears : ' Our holy and beautiful 
house, where we praised Thee, is burned up 
ivith fire, and our pleasant things are laid waste.' 
But we did not forget to add, * The Lord reign- 
eth, let the earth rejoice ; the wrath of man 
shall praise him.' 

Friday, the 18th, finding the Hall, to which 
we had adjourned, closed, and being privately 
advised that a school-room was open for our re- 
ception, the members of the Convention were 
soon assembled in that place. The solemn and 
quiet greetings of that morning, evinced the clear 
conception possessed by all, of the perilous cir- 



17 

cumstances under which we were again gathered. 
The expression of satisfaction, which brightened 
every countenance, told how highly was the 
privilege appreciated of being partakers of that 
peril. 

The mingled anxiety and calmness, which also 
rested on those countenances, most expressively 
betokened the solicitude felt to do right ; and 
the faith, that, in so doing, they should be sus- 
tained by an invisible arm. Seldom is it given 
to dependent beings, to prove more truly the 
promise, ' Thou shalt keep in perfect peace, the 
hearts that are stayed on thee.' 

The Convention was opened by reading the 
scriptures and prayer. Mrs. Lucretia Mott ad- 
dressed the Convention, recurring to the scenes 
of the past night, and expressing her earnest de- 
sire that all the proceedings of this day might be 
characterized by a deep solemnity and simple 
confidence in God. She spoke of the feelings 
she had possessed during the riot in Philadelphia, 
three years previous, when a cruel attack was 
made upon the colored people of that place, and 
said that in that season of trial, she was enabled 
to feel the full and earnest desire that the suffer- 
ing might fall on herself, if thus those defence- 
less ones might be spared ; and that now, in this 
2# 



18 

season of trial, she had experienced a return of 
those emotions ; and it was with humihty she 
would say, only let the suffering fall on us, and 
she would receive her portion with thanksgiving. 
Soon after the business of the morning was in- 
troduced, a message from some of our friends 
was received, stating that the violent spirit which 
ruled the night was still abroad ; that the excited 
multitude had knowledge that the women's Con- 
vention were holding a session, though they were 
ignorant of its location ; and that their determina- 
tion to find the place and break up the meeting 
was clamorously expressed. The President im- 
mediately communicated the inteUigence received 
from without, exhibited the situation in which 
we were placed, and requested each one present 
to decide whether they would remain in the 
building. She expressed her own earnest desire, 
that the business of the Convention might pro- 
ceed, and called for the opinion of others ; at the 
same time recommending withdrawal to any, who, 
though strong in heart, yet felt themselves not 
physically nerved to meet a repetition of the 
scenes of the past night. None were observed 
to leave the Hall ; but each one, doubtless, felt 
it to be a rare occasion for self-scrutiny — and 
many felt more forcibly than ever before, what 



19 

it was to ^ remember them that are in bonds as 
bound with them.' Most blessed was it thus to 
make our humble appeal to the Searcher of 
hearts, and it is not arrogance meekly to declare 
the joy and peace which was shed abroad among 
us, in that hour. In that upper room were those 
who leaned on Jesus, and felt it to be his voice 
that hade them stay, and at that time and in that 
manner, maintain the cause of his oppressed 
children. 

If the resolution to remain together under cir- 
cumstances so threatening, were deemed temeri- 
ty, an explanation might thus be rendered. — 
That the mob did not pursue us from the Tem- 
perance Hall, proved that they had lost our 
track, and of course it must be uncertain how 
long they would be in regaining it. Very possi- 
bly we might have time quietly and orderly to 
hasten the business of the Convention to a close, 
and thus save the loss that would be occasioned 
by suddenly breaking up, and leaving all docu- 
ments and business so incomplete, that no record 
could be preserved of the proceedings, nor any 
direct influence go forth from the Convention. 
It was morally certain that if we disbanded at 
that juncture, it would be impossible to re-assem- 
ble within the time that the delegates from other 



20 

places could remain in the city. One cheering 
fact could not be disregarded. Amid the violence 
and tumult which filled that city, we had been 
preserved through the night, permitted to come 
unmolested to that quiet place, and in peace to 
commend ourselves and our cause to God. Should 
we hesitate to cast ourselves afresh on the pro- 
tection of Him, ^ who hath the hearts of all men 
in his hands, and can turn them as the rivers of 
water are turned ? ' If it were best for the cause, 
we knew our meeting would be carried to its 
completion in peace. Let not distrust of the 
hand that has thus far upheld, cause us now to 
flee, was the expression of many faces, as the 
enquiring glance went round, and the decision 
was mentally formed to remain and await the 
event. Unshielded by earthly defences in that 
hour of man's wrath, and invoking only the aid 
of the Prince of Peace, we found ourselves en- 
compassed about with his invisible protection ! 
That was a season to be hallowed in the memo- 
ry, to be recurred to in future times of need, to 
be the cause of perpetual thanksgiving to the 
God of the oppressed, and an earnest of the 
grace he will ever bestow on those who make 
his arm alone their refuge. 



m 

At half past 4, the business of the Convention 
being completed, a motion was made to adjourn, 
to meet in May, 1839, in the city of Philadel- 
phia, which motion was carried, and the Conven- 
tion dissolved, after being led in prayer by Lu- 
cretia Mott, Mary S. Parker, and Margaret Dye. 

A meeting was held in June, in Hall No. 1, of 
the Marlboro' Chapel, which was addressed by 
Alvan Stewart, Esq., of Utica, and H. B. Stan- 
ton. The Address of Mr. Stewart had reference 
principally, to the duties of women with regard 
to their influence over their fathers, husbands 
and brethren, in connection with political action 
on the subject of slavery. There is but little 
doubt that the women of this country have it in 
their power, (under God,) to overthrow the sys- 
tem of slavery. Let but every woman of the 
north do her duty in signing petitions to Congress 
and the State Legislature, in holding up the burn- 
ing truth to the minds of Senators and Represen- 
tatives, in teaching her children justice and uni- 
versal love, and slavery will speedily ' be a tale 
of yesterday.' Our statesmen will soon say they 
can hold out no longer in their oppression, when 
all the maids and matrons of the land have arisen 
for freedom and the right. With such responsi- 
bilities, are we not called upon to do speedily-, 
with our might, what our hands find to do ? 



22 

Our labors during the past year, in relation to 
the Fair, realized to us 850 dollars ; and we an- 
ticipate a sale of a similar character the ensuing 
winter, when we hope to raise an equal amount 
to aid us in carrying forward the important work 
in which our hearts are enlisted. Our grateful 
acknowledgements are due to sister Societies in 
New England, who have heretofore so liberally 
assisted us by contributions of articles for the 
sale. We call to mind with livehest emotions 
the kindness of our respected sisters in Europe, 
in the valuable present of many beautiful and 
tasteful articles, which, while they did honor to 
themselves, graced our tables and greatly facili- 
tated our sale. It is no small pleasure to us to 
be able to take from our tables and chimney 
pieces, specimens of the handy -work of those 
who have labored with such unremitting diligence, 
and who have realised such large success in the 
cause of emancipation. Our hearts are cheered 
by these tokens of remembrance, for now we live, 
if they bear us on their hearts. 

The example of our British sisters ought to 
quicken us to more zealous effort in the cause of 
freedom. What has not the influence of women 
accomplished in Europe ? Let the first of Au- 
gust, 1838, speak ! Let the thousands of enfran- 



23 

chised souls springing forth on that day, in all the 
dignity of men, speak! Where had been the 
hopes of these thousands of souls, but for the ef- 
forts of women ? When will the records of our 
Congressional session count the names of two 
million jive hundred thousand women, asking the 
liberty of their brethren and sisters in bonds, and 
thus, like Britain's slaves, every American slave, 
find a representative in the person of a petitioner ? 
This work of petitioning is of the utmost import- 
ance, and should be vigorously pursued, till Con- 
gress pass such laws as will declare free, every 
man, woman and child who sets foot upon her 
soil. 

The sentiments advanced in a circular of the 
Dublin Ladies' Association, to the females of Ire- 
land, in reference to the evils of slavery, are in- 
deed emphatically true. They say, ^ Let slavery 
disguise itself as it may, it is unutterably, incon- 
ceivably bitter. Yes, she may attire herself in 
the gay garb of a pretended freedom, or she may 
array herself in the mock garment of a legalized 
apprenticeship ; nevertheless her heart, true to 
its nature, whispers that she is slavery still. 
The iron of bitterest bondage still enters into the 
soul of h^r victim, and though he lives, it is but 
to drag out a hated existence. He toils as a 



24 

slave, yet he feels as a man.^ Unutterably, in- 
conceivably bitter ! Alas, what proof v^^e have 
of the truth of these sentiments, in those v^rho 
have fled from their cruel oppressors at the south, 
and taken refuge at our firesides ! Where is 
there a slave, vt^ho is not eloquent in relation to 
this bitterness, if he finds himself in the society 
of those who love liberty for others as well as 
themselves ? If their sufferings were not too 
grievous to be borne, what mean their flight by 
night, their endurance of hardships scarcely to 
be conceived, their subjecting themselves to the 
mercy of wild beasts, and to the less merciful 
men-hunters of the south ? Why does yonder 
mother clasp that helpless babe thus closely to 
her bosom ? Why those tears of anguish — that 
frantic shriek — as one in human form, and who 
calls himself her master, approaches ? Ah ! she 
feels this bitterness — the iron has done its work 
upon her soul, and gladly would she find a grave 
for her unconscious innocent, that he may be 
saved from this bitterness. What mean those 
strong cryings and tears, poured into the ear of 
Heaven, from yonder miserable hovel — those 
cries which cease not day nor night ? They are 
the wailings of those into whose souls Ihis iron 
has entered. All night they wrestle for deliver- 
ance from this bondage, too grievous to be borne ; 



25 

and in the agony of thxeir spirits, the cry ascends, 
* How long, O Lord, how long, ere thou come 
down to deliver ?' 

Our souls rejoice that England has removed 
this cup of bitterness from the lips of her hun- 
dreds of thousands of redeemed subjects. She, 
with other nations of the earth, is gazing upon 
our guilty country. O that they may look us 
into penitence for our sins, and may that gaze 
never be averted, till 

' From her green mountains to the sea, 
One voice shall thunder, all are free ! ' 

We cannot refrain from expressing our deep 
regret, that the watchmen upon the walls of our 
Zion refuse not only to enter into the blessed 
work of preaching ' the gospel to the poor, of 
healing the broken-hearted, of proclaiming deliv- 
erance to the captive, and recovery of sight to 
the blind, of setting at liberty those that are 
bruised ; ' but that they hinder the flock from so 
doing, by frowning upon their efforts, and refus- 
ing to read notices of those seasons of assembling, 
which the friends of liberty have ever found to 
be of vital importance in keeping alive the fires 
of freedom, and strengthening them in their at- 
tacks upon the ci'tadel of slavery. It becomes to 
us matter of serious inquiry, whether we have 
porformed our duty to these ministers, by ex- 
3 



26 

hortation and reproof, in all long-sufFerlng and 
patience. Let us inquire, whether there are not 
means within our reach, that have hitherto re- 
mained untried, whereby they may be brought 
to see their guilt, in thus shutting their ears to 
the crying of the poor. This is a question that 
we feel each one should ask as a Christian, as a 
disciple of the compassionate Redeemer. If 
such an inquiry were candidly answered by each 
one of us, what would be the result ? Let con- 
science speak — and if it tell of duty neglected, 
let us see to it that we are not called to give ac- 
count of our stewardship before we have per- 
formed this work, on which perhaps depends the 
destiny of many a hapless slave. 

Our hearts are encouraged to untiring effort, 
in consequence of the success that has hitherto 
attended our labors, and the cheering intelligence 
from abroad, that anti-slavery principles are do- 
ing their work of reform upon the hearts and 
consciences of individuals of all classes of society. 
The heaven-descended principles we promulgate, 
which are admitted by our opponents to be ' the 
principles of God's eternal truth,' cannot fail ot 
arousing our wretched country, which is drunk 
with the blood of slaughtered millions, to a sense 
of its danger, and we hope to repentance. 



ff^ 



00 ^ 
CO o 

00 pr- 






b 



o o o 

S ^ 3 

CD t-s g 

S !=^£ 



p cn 
o 



f^ <! ^ S- 



<^ O M 



O fa aq S 



B >^ 



f^.'uS 



rs 



CD 3 



CD X rt- ^.-- 



P O t> 

CD ^ P 

™ O CD 
<^ I 






Hg US 
0°" §^ 

'^ !^ hrf 'v P3 H-t 

5' :< P '^ ?"• "^ 

P CD P 5; S 

f^ ^ P ^ 

CD CD TS rt- i-Ci 

CD 5 ^ c^ S p 

■-^r^.- p 

• ^ o P D.. 
pi^.^3. . 

CD fD ^ CD 
§ ^ C ^ ■ 

</3 vT* 



I-! M rt- 



5_^CD ^P ^ Peg g, 

1^ '^^ ?^ ^^ s T § 



P 

CD ■ 4- 



aq 'p; M 

O CD P 

o P . 2^ 

O CD P 



CD CD 
CD CU 

c-.aq 

t3 CD 

aq o 



aq ^ 

1/5 P 



v-^ 



ITQ 


;r4-^ 


P 





Tl 


i-hi 


P 


^ 


P 


p 






P 


c« 


oq 


r^ 







^ 





PsT^ 



1-J 






s- ^ 
^?^ p 






g o 

i 5 



- - ■ - ■ • P 3 o 
cT P !^ 
o P 5" 



o S^i^P 



S S 3 S^P^^B"^ 

^^cd^cdPS"^ 

, , ^ "^ I 



p 



&^i 



35 



P' c^ m^O P* 

P -. _, CD '-^Jli' 

Cb^-'^aq :z^^^ 

£ § 2^ 
>:j p CD 



5_j o 

p. cd' 



p- s ^ • -^ 

p Q^ . O 

B'. P' '^ ^. 

M CD '-^ • 



aq 

aq 

O 
P 

O 

o 



£- CD 
CD M 

c« I 



CD 



tH <j O n-1 hrj >> ;^ Oba S 

o<!p^-'-ipS^.PP "^ 

^ tococrB Si.- 

2 CD • ^ CD :>- 

P- CD • H • 

p 



. -' S- Cf q crq 
P' <^ ,__i 



o 



P 2. h> P 

■^ r P 

aq 



CO pL, " r P 



p s 



CO M 

' o 
o ^^ 

p «- 



• P 






r^ P 



fed 



CD CD g^ 



Cfq O- 

CD P 



rn 1 


-r> 


^ 


^D 


05 1 


tN3 


Ox 


o\ 



^? 



APPENDIX 



CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 
BOSTON FEMALE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



PREAMBLE. 

Believing slavery to be a direct violation of the 
laws of God, and productive of a vast amount of 
misery and crime ; and convinced that its abolition 
can only be effected by an acknowledgment of the 
justice and necessity of immediate emancipation; we 
hereby agree to form ourselves into a Society, to aid 
and assist in this righteous cause as far as lies with- 
in our power. 

CONSTITUTION. 

Ahticle 1. This Society shall be called the Bos- 
ton Female Anti-Slavery Society. 

Art. 2. Any lady may become a member of this 
society by subscribing to the sentiments contained in 



ai 

the preamble, and paying fifty cents annually. Any 
lady paying five dollars, at entrance, will be consid- 
ered a life member. 

Art. 3. Its funds shall be appropriated to the dis- 
semination of truth on the subject of slavery, and 
the improvement of the moral and intellectual char- 
acter of the colored population. The opinions of the 
members, as to the best means of effecting these pur* 
poses, will be freely given at the meetings. Questions, 
relative to the business of the Society, may be de- 
cided by a vote of two-thirds of the members pres- 
ent, or such decisions may be transferred by them to 
the Board of Ofiicers. 

Art. 4. The government of this Society shall be 
vested in a Board of Officers, consisting of a Presi- 
dent, whose duty it will be to preside at all meetings 
of the Society. A Vice President, to supply the 
place of the former, in case of absence. A Domes- 
tic Corresponding Secretary, who shall keep all com- 
munications addressed to the Society, and manage 
all the correspondence with any other bodies or indi- 
viduals within the United States, according to the di- 
rection of the Society or Officers. A Secretary of 
Foreign Correspondence, who shall manage all cor- 
respondence with foreign societies, or individuals, ac- 
cording to the direction of the Society or officers. A 
Eeeording Secretary, who is to keep a record of trans- 
actions, and give notice of the time and place for all 
mieetings of the Society. A Treasurer, authorized to 
receive subscriptions, donations, &c. and to pay the 
bills of the Society; and five Counsellors, to advise 
and assist the other officers. In case of the absence 
of both President and Vice President, a presiding 
officer may be chosen by vote. Two-thirds of the 
officers shall constitute a quorum. 



82 



Art. 5. An annual meeting of the Society shall 
be held on the second Wednesday of October, at 
which meeting the reports of the Secretary and 
Treasurer shall be read, and officers chosen for the 
ensuing year. 

Art. 6. Quarterly meetings of the Society shall 
be held on the second Wednesdays of January, April, 
July, and October, at which time the Secretary shall 
report the proceedings of the Society, and such other 
business shall be transacted as circumstances may 
render necessary. If, for any unforseen reasons, 
other meetings become advisable, the President is au- 
thorized to summon the other officers, and they may 
give notice to the members of the Society. 

ARTr 7. If any vacancies occur in the Board, dur- 
ing the interval of the regular meetings, the Board 
shall have power to fill such vacancies, jpro. tern. 

Art. 8. Each member is entitled to a copy of ev- 
ery publication issued by the Society. 

Art. 9. Any of the above articles may be amend- 
ed, or new ones introduced, by a vote of two-thirds of 
the members present. 



The extracts of correspondence, &c. which follow 
give pleasing testimony of the deep interest felt by 
Mrs. Phelps, in the cause of the enslaved. 

To appreciate these extracts, however, and form 
from them any thing like a correct estimate of the 
strength of her attachment to this cause, it must be 
borne in mind, that from the time Mr. Phelps entered 
on his agency, and even before, her health was such 
as to render the society and attention of a husband, 
to say the least, especially desirable. Nothing but 
the strong conviction of duty^ could have made her 
willing to forego them. A fact in illustration. She 
spent a part of the summer of 1S33 in the country, 
on account of her health. On the 15th of July, af- 
ter giving the particulars of her health to her hus- 
band in a letter, she says, ' I need not ask you to pray 
for me, for I trust I am daily remembered at the 
throne of grace ; but pray, dear husband, that I may 
be preparing to go, whether I shall be called sooner 
or later ; that I may cheerfully submit the decision to 
God, to live or die, and willingly give up husband 
and child to his disposal, with all that I hold dear on 
earth, and be enabled to commit the keeping of my 
soul to him forever.^ 

With such views of the near approach of death, 
with her health but little improved, yet with her full 
aiid hearty approbation, as well as with a secret hope 
that a change of residence from the city to the coun- 
try, would be beneficial to her health, her husband 
decided to enter on his agency for the oppressed, in 
the Spring of 1834. 

This decision was early communicated by Mrs. P. 
to Mr. Phelps's mother in Connecticut, who, in reply, 
remonstrated against it. Meanwhile Mr. P. had re- 



34 

moved his family to Wrentham, to Mrs. P's mothery 
and entered on his agency. 

In reply to the letter from Mr. P's mother, Mrs, 
Phelps thus writes : 

' My Dear Mothek — It is indeed a noble enterprise, 
and a privilege to be thus employed in behalf of the 
suffering and the oppressed, who are far worse off 
than the heathen. O, how ought we to pray and to 
labor for them, till they are set free from their tem- 
poral and spiritual bondage ! Have we not reason to 
believe that many a poor slave at the great day of ac- 
count will appear as gems in his crown of rejoicing ? 
And, dear mother, how trifling will be the sacrifice 
which you and I are called to make, by being separ- 
ated from him, appear to us then ! The time has 
come, dear mother, when we must make sacrifices if 
we would do our whole duty ; when we must take 
large and extended views of duty. We must not live 
unto ourselves, but unto Him who died for us; and if 
he calls upon us to make sacrifices, we must make 
them cheerfully. If he bids us go to another part of 
his vineyard, we must go when and where he directs, 
and be willing to be any thing and do any thing that 
he requires. You speak of the trial of being separ- 
ated from your child. I know it must he trying. 
It is a sacrifice of feeling to me thus to be separated 
from my dear husband, in my feeble state of health; 
but then I feel that God has a higher claim than I 
have upon him, and when he called upon him to go, 
dear as he is, I could not object. It is indeed a sac- 
rifice ; but I make it, dear mother, in behalf of two 
millions of daves, who, as I said before, are worse oflf 
than the heathen.' 

Mr. P. spent the summer of 1834 in Maine. Ar- 
rangements were made for a State Convention, to 



35 

form a State Anti-Slavery Society. Sept. 23d, she 
writes to her husband, ' I am looking forward with 
deep interest to the Convention. Be assured that I 
do not forget you and the cause in my daily inter- 
cessions.' Oct. 4. 'I rejoice to hear that the cause 
is making " goodly progress" in Maine ; this is all 
that reconciles me to so long a separation. I feel 
that much is pending upon what is done there now, 
and especially at the Convention. Oh how much, 
wisdom and grace do you, and all who defend this 
cause, need, at all times, but especially at such a 
meeting as that, when the least imprudence will be 
marked ! But there is a precious promise, " My 
grace is sufficient for thee." ' 

She was frequently subject to new attacks of dis- 
ease, and in two or three instances met with serious 
accidents ; and yet, after stating the particulars to her 
husband, she was ever v^ront to add remarks like the 
following : ' I am so much better, that I have rode 
three times since, and been to meeting on the Sab- 
bath ; so you need not give yourself the least anxiety 
about me.' At another time, after bleeding at the 
lungs, she added, ' I should have written you before 
this, but I thought it would be very inconvenient for 
you to come home, and if we could get along: without 
you we would.' She seemed unwilling ever to call 
him away from his work, except as absolute necessity 
required. As striking an instance as any, occurred 
in May last. At that time she had been confined to 
her room, and much of the time to her bed, and for 
some weeks her family had hardly expected her con- 
tinuance from week to week, and her husband, in 
consequence, had hardly allowed himself to be ab- 
sent. The annual meeting of the American A. S. 
Society was at hand. It was deemed a very impor- 
tant one, and Mr. P. felt extremely anxious to attend. 



36 



To do so, he must be absent a week at least. He 
had decided not to attend. As the day approached, 
however, Mrs. P. was apparently a little better, and 
she thought, on the whole, he had better go. May 
3d she wrote to him thus : ' As I feel comfortable 
this afternoon, I thought I would sit up in my bed 
awhile and begin my letter to you, and say all that I 
could, not knowing how I shall be in the morning.' 
The next morning the letter was completed, and con- 
cluded as follows : ' I have told you particulars, for 
I thought you would be glad to have them ; I have 
been much as I am when you are here, excepting 
my cough, which I think increases, and a void which 
the presence of a dear husband fills. But I have the 
same Heavenly Father, the same Savior, the same 
Holy Comforter ; the same throne of grace and pre- 
cious Bible that I have when you are here, and why 
should I complain ? No, I have no cause for com- 
plaint, and I trust no disposition so to do. Far be it 
from me ! for my cup runneth over with undeserved 
mercies ; and if chastised, I know that my heavenly 
Father will not inflict " one stripe that I do not need." 
I know that "it has been good for me that I have 
been afflicted." "Then let me rejoice, yea, I will 
rejoice ; and though he slay me, yet will I trust in 
him." ' And in a postcript she adds, ' I am very 
glad you concluded to go to New-York.' 

In relation to her last moments, a brief extract 
must suffice. ' It had seemed for some days as if 
she was only waiting for the Lord Jesus to come and 
take her ; she said, he was just such a Saviour as 
she wanted, and if she was only prepared, it was no 
matter how soon she went. Why, said I, (Mr. P.) 
do you say if? Well, I do not know, said she, but 
I do wrong to say it, I have been thinking lately that 



37 

I did, for I do trust in him, I am sure I do; and oh, 
he is so precious to me. Aug. 7. For several days 
she had been growing gradually worse. On the 6th 
she had said, ' if I perish, I will perish there ;' (trust- 
ing in Christ,) and I had said in reply, ' you cannot 
perish there, do you not know it V This morning 
as I rose at four, to give her some refreshment, she 
said, ' that was a happy thought you gave me yester- 
day, it has been quite a comfort to me.' Aug. 22nd. 
To-day as I sat at her side, she opened her hymn 
book and turned to several hymns expressive of her 
feelings in various respects; among them was the 
following : 

'I soon shall accomplish my race, 

And soar to the temple on high ; 
Dear Jesus, beholding thy face, 

I cheerfully yield me to die. 
Farewell, my distress and my woe, 

The storms of existence are o'er ; 
Though fiercely the tempest may blow. 

Its fury appals me no more. 

More quickly and shorter I breathe, 

The dew is o'erspreading my cheek ; 
I feel the approaches of death, 

My heartstrings beginning to break j 
A struggle or two and 'tis done. 

From earth and its anguish I fly j 
The palm of the conqueror won, 

I live by submitting to die.' 



The following is a copy of the letter addressed by 
the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society to Mrs. E. 
P. Lovejoy. 

Boston, Jan. 21, 1838. 
To Mrs. E. P. Lovejoy. 

Dear Madam, — It is at the request of the Bos- 
ton Female Anti-Slavery Society, that I now attempt 
to address you ; but it is a duty on which I reluc- 
tantly engage, for I am painfully aware of my own 
inability to make any adequate expression of their 
sympathy. I am sensible how dull and cold the lan- 
guage of condolence must fall upon your ear, and 
how trifling and insufficient must appear to you all 
human consolation. I feel, too, that every renewed 
expression of respect for the distinguished excellen- 
cies of him whom you mourn, must deepen instead 
of diminishing your sorrow ; and it is rather with 
the view of relieving our own feelings, than from the 
hope of soothing yours, that we would utter the de- 
claration of our sympathy in your affliction, and our 
love and reverence for the memory of our departed 
brother. 

But, while we feel that your only consolation must 
be found in the boundless power and compassion of 
God, suffer us to call your mind to the holiness of 
the cause, in defence of which your husband counted 
not his life dear unto him, but was ' faithful even unto 
death.' The principles for which he contended form 



39 

a most important and necessary part of the gospel of 
Christ. The religion that can exist without them is 
false and worthless, serving but as an ally, or a scoff 
to the oppressor and a mockery to his victim. That 
he died in a cause like this, should be to you unspeak- 
able consolation ; and even while you mourn over 
your own desolated hom.e, will it not comfort you to 
think that he fell in defence of the outraged homes 
of millions, and that that blood, so precious to your 
heart, is even now pleading with this nation in their 
defence ? God grant that consolations, like these, 
may strengthen you to endure the living martyrdom 
to v/hich he has called you. 

Everywhere, throughout all coming time, the lov- 
ers of truth and freedom will cherish the memory 
and admire the virtues of Lovejoy ; and wherever 
the gospel of deliverance is preached, the memorial 
of him shall survive. In defence of the dearest 
rights of man, and the holiest precepts of God, he 
cheerfully poured forth his blood; and how great the 
sacrifice was, our own instinctive attachment to life 
and its enjoyments testifies. 

But there is a sacrifice yet nobler ; and if in refer- 
ence to the extinction of a life dearer than your own, 
jT-ou have said in sincerity, ' Thy will be done,' that 
sacrifice you have made, and doubt not that ' however 
dimmed by mortal tears,' it will be accepted of Him 
who ' knoweth our frames, and remembereth that we 
are dust.' We would renewedly ' commend you to 
God and the word of his grace,' praying that you and 
yours may be guided and comforted by his wisdom 
and mercy, until in his own good time, the broken 
ties of earth shall be reunited in heaven. 

On behalf of the Boston F. A. S. Society. 
ANNE W. WESTON, Dom. Cor. Sec. ' 



The following letter has been recently received by 
us from the Ladies' Emancipation Society of Taun- 
ton, Somersetshire. England. 

Beloved Sisters, 

The wisest of men has said, ' Iron sharpeneth 
iron ; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his 
friend.' You are our friends ; we are one in the 
cause of Negro Emancipation ; our energies, our 
sympathies, our prayers, are concentrated in this one 
object ; and we feel that if we could see your faces, 
Solomon's assertion would indeed be realized. But 
the wide Atlantic rolls between us. We shall never 
meet until that happy consummation, when (through 
the merits of our blessed Redeemer) we and an in- 
numerable company of the objects of our united sym- 
pathies and efforts shall meet around the throne of 
Him who gave his Son a ransom for the sins of the 
poor, oppressed African, as well as for those of the 
lordly Briton, or the proud American. 

But, although mountains may rise and billows roll 
betv/een us, our spirits can hold communion with 
yours ; we meet you at your conventions, at your 
committee meetings ; and w^e can join you at a throne 
of mercy, though thousands of miles divide us ; for 
we can say with our sainted bard, who so tunefully 
sung the woes of Africa — 

How fleet is a glance of the mind ! 

Compared with the speed of its flight, 
The tempest itself lags behind, 

And the swift winged arrows of light. 



41 

We might have felt all this ; but perhaps we should 
never have told you so, had not our highly valued 
friend, George Thompson, that eloquent and un- 
flinching champion of the slave, assured us that ex- 
pressions of sympathy from us would greatly encour- 
age our American sisters in their w^ork of faith, and 
labor of love. 

We sympathize with you in all the trials which 
you have to endure, in the promotion of the cause 
you have so nobly undertaken ; and we pray that 
abundant success may crown your efforts. Yours is 
indeed ' a work oi faith ;' for in a country where the 
system of slavery seems interwoven with even its 
laws, where custom has habituated the mind to the 
unchristian practice of reducing man to a level with 
the brute ; vv^here interest has blinded the eyes of 
those who are otherwise enlightened,, the heart would 
faint and sicken at the hopeless conflict, were it not 
for the gracious promise made by Him 'who has 
made of one blood all the nations of the earth.' — ' For 
the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the 
needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord ; I will set 
him in safety from him that puffeth at him.' And 
are not the siofns of the times declaring, as it were 
with an audible voice, that the Lord is preparing to 
arise for the deliverance of the oppressed in your na- 
tive land, and in our colonies? 

And this reminds us of our own position. We 
have tendered our sympathies to you ; and now we 
ask for yours. You have not experienced the pain 
of hope deferred as we have; you have not tasted of 
the cup of rejoicing, and then been doomed to have 
it dashed from your lips, as we have. You have 
not, for many years, been laboring in the cause of 
siegro freedom. You have not paid twenty millions 



42 



to purchase that freedom, and then been deluded as 
we have. We hailed the year 1834 as a year of ju- 
bilee. Our poets sung the song of jubilee, and we 
rejoiced, not only that the slave was free, but that 
our own beloved country was at length free from the 
stain of slavery. 

But, alas ! the Abolition Act, neutralized as it is by 
the apprenticeship scheme, has painfully disappoint- 
ed our hopes. The poor negro is still a slave under 
a new name ; he is still liable to be flogged, not in 
the field, it is true, but with augmented severity in 
the tread-mill ; and our poor negro sisters are even 
more cruelly treated than before ; so that we have 
had again to hang our harps upon the willows. But 
our anti-slavery brethren are once more buckling on 
their armor, and we are cheering them onvv^ard to this 
holy warfare. 

Yet the Abolition Act has not wholly failed. The 
time is fixed for entire freedom. Antigua and Ber- 
muda are already free ;.and to them we can thank- 
fully point, as specimens of the successful workings 
of immediate abolition. And to America we would 
say, ' Look at Antigua, and follow her example.' 
There are flourishing plantations, wealthy proprie- 
tors, and hired laborers, contented and happy. There 
are chapels, full of attentive hearers, and schools re- 
sounding with hymns of praise from little negro lips. 
For these blessings, we will still rejoice, 'thank God, 
and take courage;' but we will not rest, until our 
youthful and beloved Queen shall not have a single 
slave in her extensive dominions. When that de- 
lightful day shall dawn, we shall with greater bold- 
ness unite with you, our American sisters, in endeav- 
oring to wipe away the stain from your country, a 
stain which peculiarly blackens the fame of a nati^^'" 



43 

boasting itself to be the freest in the world. And 
when that stain is wiped away, the WORLD will be 
free; for what country will be able to withstand ihe 
united example of Great Britain and America? 

Since the commencement of this Address, our sym- 
pathies for American abolitionists have been pecu- 
liarly excited by the melancholy intelligence of the 
murder of Mr. Lovejoy ; and more especially do we 
feel for you, our beloved sisters, whose husbands, 
fathers and brothers are in daily danger of martyr- 
dom in the cause of religion and liberty, in free and 
Christian America. Whatever may be our trials, 
whatever our disappointments, (and they have been 
great,) we have nothing of that sort to dread. Pub- 
lic opinion in England is with us ; the friends of re- 
ligion are with us ; and we must shortly triumph. 

But the word of God declares, ' the wrath of man 
shall praise thee, and the remainder of wrath wilt 
thou restrain ;' and as the blood of the martyrs was 
the seed of the church, so do we believe that the 
blood of the martyred Lovejoy will be the seed of 
abolition in America, and bring forth fruit an hun- 
dred fold. And may He who is the father of the 
fatherless, and the husband of the widow, comfort and 
sustain her, who has been called upon to lose a be- 
loved husband in this holy cause. Surely this hor- 
rid circumstance will arouse the christian churches in 
your land, to purge themselves from this body and 
soul destroying sin, and to come forward to the help 
of those friends of the oppressed, who are now strug- 
gling amidst opposition and persecution to deliver 
their country from the blackest stain that can pollute 
her banner. 

But it is time to close this long Address ; and we 
will only add, that we shall be glad to receive any 



44 

eommunications from you, either Ly letter or period^ 
ical or other publications ; and our prayer will ascend 
with yours to a throne of mercy, that the God of the 
oppressed, who hears the groans of the poor Africans 
in their cruel bondage, may, as he did in the case of 
the Israelites in Egypt, come down and deliver them. 
"We are, your affectionate sisters, 
Signed in behalf of the Taunton Ladies' Anti-Sla- 
very Society, by 

Charlotte M. Wolman, Presidents 

Margaret Luke, Treasurer. 

Sarah Dymond, ) ^ + • 
T T./r T3 > Secretaries, 

J. M. Reeves, 

Tawnton, Feb. 6, ISSS. 



The following letter has been gratefully received 
from Exeter, (England,) by the Boston Female An- 
ti-Slavery Society. 

To the Female Anti-Slavery Societies in the United 
States of America. 
We, the members of a Ladies' Anti-Slavery Soci- 
ety for the city of Exeter and its neighborhood, in 
tlie county of Devon, old England, would address you 
in the language of sympathy and encouragement, as 
our sisters and fellow laborers in the cause of suffer- 
ing and degraded humanity. Need we a passport to 
your acceptance of this our expression, it is sufficient 
that we mention to you the name, the more than re- 
spected name of George Thompson, that indefatiga- 
ble, that undaunted champion of the rights of the ne- 
gro, whose valuable labors have animated and de- 
lighted us on either side of the Atlantic. Yes, he 
has told of your zeal, of your unwearied persever- 
ance, througlx good report and through evil report. 
He has told us that you would hail our appearances 
of fellowship with gratitude and delight. Can we 
withhold them ? No. Affectionately we salute you, 
and bid you God speed. We say to you, ' Go on — 
pursue your undeviating course, until it shall please 
tliat Almighty Being, whose work we verily believe 
it is, to prosper it in your hands even unto comple- 
tion.' Oh ! that you could point to Britain, and say. 



46 

she has done her part — follow her ! But no ! We 
lately, indeed, rejoiced over what we fain would hope 
were the broken, the forever prostrate chains of our 
sable sisters, and were lulled to rest by fancied strains 
of Liberty's sweet voice ; but a sound of the clank of 
chains, and the bitter complaints of disappointed 
hopes, afresh are wafted to our shores, and we are 
waking from our lethargy. May we be availingly 
aroused, never again to slumber, until righteousness 
shall have triumphed, and the fair and lovely form of 
Freedom shall have raised her head preeminently in 
every clime. Surely, in the arms of Christian phi- 
lanthropy, all should be embraced. 

The American captive, the West Indian slave — 
are they not all our brothers and our sisters? Let 
OS then emulate one another in this labor of love. 
Let us strengthen each other's hands for the work, 
by a reciprocal interchange of sentiments and infor- 
mation ; — and when privileged to approach the throne 
of grace, may we be enabled to remember each other 
there. And while we would offer solace to the op- 
pressed, by assuring him of his many friends, who 
will not cease to plead his cause at a heavenly as 
well as earthly tribunal, we would affectionately re- 
mind him, that seeing it is permitted by wisdom in- 
scrutable that he should still be the subject of wrongs 
innumerable, and deprivations very grievous, it is his 
duty, as a christian, to endure them with meekness 
and patience, earnestly seeking a portion of His 
spirit, who petitioned for his enemies, ' Father, for- 
give them, they know not what they do.' 

Signed on behalf of the Society, by 

SARAH SPARKES, Cor. Sec'y, 
Exeter, Jan. 21, 1838. 



Anti-Slavery Societies of Women in Mass., with the 
Names of their Secretaries. 

Braintree and Salisbury. Miss Betsey Linscott. 
Andover. Mrs. Susan Johnson. 
Ashburnham. Mrs. Oilman Jones. 
Athol. A. M. Hoyt. 
Boston. Miss Martha V. Ball. 
Boxboroiigh. Mrs.Ebenezer Hayward. 
Bridgeivater. 

Cambridgeport. Mrs. M. Cbaraberlain. 
Danvers. Mrs. Isaac Winslow. 
Dorchester. Mias Sarah Baker. 
East Bradford. Miss Ellen B Ladd. 
Fall River. Miss Sarah G. Buffura. 
Fitchburg. Mrs. Eliza Gill. 
Franklin. Elizabeth Pond. 
Groton. M iss Elizabeth Farnsvvorth. 
Haverhill. Miss Harriet Miaot. 
Hingham, Mrs. Edward Thaxter. 
Lowell. Mrs. George Mansfield. 
Lynn. Miss Abby Kelley. 
Millville—Mendon P. O. Miss Abby Pitts. 
Newburyport. Miss H. S. Stickney. 
New Bedford. Miss Elizabeth C. Taber. 
North Leicester. Eliza Earle. 
Plymouth. 

Reading. Mrs. Lydia P. T. Bancroft. 
Roxbury. Mrs. John Jones. 
Salem. Miss L. L. Dodge. 
South Reading. Miss M. A. Avery. 
South Weymouth. Mrs. Eliza T. Lord. 
• Sudbury. Miss Mary Rice. 
Uxbridge. Miss S. Judsoa. 
Weymouth and Braintree. Mrs. H. C. Fifield. 



POEM, 

WRITTEN ON THE BURNING OF PENNSYLVANIA HALL IN 
PHILADELPHIA, BY A DELEGATE TO THE CONVENTION 
OF AMERICAN WOMEN MAY 17, 183S. 

Queen of the cities of the western world, 

How is thy glory into darkness hurled ! 

How are thy whited walls defiled and dim, 

By murder, rapine, and th' accursed thing; 

How is thine air impregnate with the cry 

Of those who seek their brother to destroy ; 

Who execrate the soul of him who fain 

"Would lift the bondman from the oppressor's chain I 

! tell it not in Gath ! nor in the street 

Of Askelon— let maid or matron meet, 

To speak the deed of darkness thou hast done, 

Before high heaven and the retiring sun. 

Ay, tell it not in the Athenian halls — 

Speak, speak it not, 'neath Carthagenian walls, 

Lest from their smouldering ashes ghosts arise, 

To weep o'er Christians, who their God despise. 

Let darkness and the midnight of the grave 

Sweep o'er it like th' obliterating wave. 

Yea, let the shadow of that night be deep. 

Nor let the stars their wonted vigils keep ; 

When that fair Temple, beauteous to the e3''e. 

Was laid in ruins 'neath the bending sky, 

And angels gazing at th' unearthly sight. 

Plumed their spread wings, and upward took their flight. 



49 



Ah ! little dreamed those meek-eyed quiet men. 
The artless children of the sainted Penn, 
That e'er the echo of their voice should die, 
The shade of Liberty would upward fly. 
Startled from that fair spot where she had hoped 
A door of utterance might to her be ope'd, 
Where for full many a year the word might be, 
Now break the yoke, and let the oppressed go free ! 
"Where she might cry, < Ye mighty of the earth. 
Give to the slave his home, his quiet hearth, 
His wife, his babes, torn rudely from his breast. 
And doomed to toil without a place of rest ' ! 
But vain the thought — proud slavery's minions sped 
To seal the lip, assault th' unsheltered head 
Of sire or matron, who with holy zeal 
Should lisp that bondage which the negro feels. 

But have they closed those lips in silence deep ? 
And have those eyes for bondmen ceased to weep ? 
And do the poor and needy cry in vain. 
To find deliverance from th' oppressor's chain? 
Hath threatened death repressed the strong desire — 
Chained the mute tongue— put out the quenchless fire^ 
That hath been kindled from that altar bright, 
In heaven's own chancery of living light? 
No— for the God of truth and boundless love. 
Hath clothed them with his armor from above : 
And, like the sainted Windelmut* they cry, 

*A^widov/ in North Holland, in the 16th century. She 
was seized on account of her religion, carried to the Hague, 
(here'Sstrangled, and afterwards burnt to ashes. To one who 
toU her that she did not fear death, because she had not 
tasted it, she replied, ' I shall never taste it, ior Christ hath 
said, if any man keep my sayings, he shall never see death.' 
— Milner^s History. 



50 



Behold ! oppressors, ' we shall never die ' ! 
Unworthy were their lips to name the name 
Of Him, who from the Root of Jesse came, 
If when the cry of suffering millions meet 
From North to South, deep calling unto deep, 
No tear of sympathy should wet the sod. 
No prayer arise, to sacred Freedom's God ! 

But speed ye onward, though the night be drear — 
The morning cometh. See the day appear. 
When those crushed millions, for whose souls ye plead, 
Shall rise unshackled, and with joy shall speed 
To tell the tale by every nook and shade, 
On mountain height, in winding everglade. 
The tale of triumph, Liberty's sweet song. 
While echoing hill and dale the notes prolong. 

All hail, blest day ! by Sage and Prophet told. 
When man shall cease to barter mind for gold ; 
And Afric's sons and daughters rise to trace 
A brother's image in each human face. 
Truth is eternal — God himself shall reign. 
And break in pieces th' oppressor's chain. 
Now for the sighing of the poor and dumb 
Will T arise j-^Behold, I come, I COME I 



LIFE MEMBERS OF THE BOSTON FEMALE 
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



Mrs. J. N. Barbour,Cambridgep' 
Miss E. A. Southard. 
Miss E. Blanchard. 
Mrs. J. Robinson. 
Mrs. L. Dix, Rosbury. 
Miss L. A. H. Peterson. 
Mrs. H, G. Chapman. 
Miss L. F. Mcintosh. 
Mrs. Fiilniore. 
Miss A. G. Chapman.* 
Miss M. Chapman. 
Mrs. H, Chapman 
Mrs. A. B. Carter, Charlestown 
Miss S. P. Carter, do. 
Miss A. C. Carter, do. 
Miss E. A. Carter, do. 
Mrs. A. Phillips. 
Miss B. xMcIiitosh. 
Mrs. A. Alcoit. 
Mrs. C. Taber. 
Miss M. Cotton. 
Mrs. P. Clapp: 
Mrs. H.Leland. 
Bliss L. Parker. 
Miss C. Watson, 
Mrs. H. Blake. 
Mrs. Young. 
Mrs. E. Adams, Charlestown. 
Mrs. A. Durant, Roxbury. 
Miss A. Pratt. 
Miss L. Pratt. 
Miss M. White. 
Mrs. H. Safford. 
r.Irs. F). Loom is. 
Mrs. L. Bright. 
Mrs. C. Pasco, Miss'y in Greec 
Mrs. L. Purdy. 
Mrs. J. Rogers. 
Mrs. E. Jewett. 
Mrs. L. L. Fuller. 
Number of Members, 536. 



t.Mrs. T, Southwick. 

Mrs. E. Cross. 

Mrs. N. B. Saunders. 

Miss H. Tufts. 

Miss E. Davenport. 

Mrs. A. Bailey. 

Miss A. Southwick. 

Mrs. C. Wilcox, Oneida co. N. Y. 

Mrs. D. L. Child. 

Mrs. E. Philbrick. 

Miss H. Farrer. 

Mrs. E. Jones, Roxbury. 
, Mrs. E. G. Loring. 

MissC. Parcher. 

MissE. F. Weston. 

Miss E. B. Chapman. 

Mrs. P. I). Bradish. 

Mrs. C. Fitch. 

Miss M.F.Rogers. 

Mrs. T. Gilbert. 

Miss A. R. Philbrick, Brookline. 

Miss L. Weston. 

Miss E. A. Parker. 

Mrs. .1. M. Robbing. 

MissM. Wheeler. 

Miss B. Abbott. 

Miss S. A. Ammidon, Camb'p't. 

Mrs. M. A. Parker, do. 

Miss D. Weston. 

Miss A. W. Weston. 

Mrs. M. L. Jones. 

Mrs. E. Wheelwright. 

Miss R.W. Edmands. 

Mrs. E. F. Merriam. 

MissS. M. Grimkc; S. Carolina. 
e.Mrs. M. Badger. 

Mrs. R. L. Bird. 

Mrs. G. Thompson, England. 

Mrs. A. E. G. Weld, S. Carolina. 

Mrs. A. Haines. 



* Deceased. 



