
CONTINUATION 



^PjpmtiiA: to tttt Ssttonii Mtpovt 



COMMITTEE 



AFRICAN INSTRUCTION. 



lontion; 

PRINTED BY HARVEY, DARTON, AND CO. 
55, OEACECHUaCH-STEEET. 

1824: 



Vvvt,.. ' 70^t.57 



klQ.'^- 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/continuationofapOOIond 



CONTINUATION, S^c. 



Since the Second Report of the Committee on 
African Instruction was printed off, letters have 
been received, by members of the Committee, 
from our friends Hannah Kilham and John 
Thompson, dated the 21st of 2nd Mo. and the 
8— 11th of 3rd Mo. 1824; from which the fol- 
lowing are extracts. It appears that the two 
friends arrived at Sierra Leone, from the Gam- 
bia, after a week's passage, the 15th of 2nd Mo. 
and that, after visiting most of the different ne- 
gro settlements attached to that colony, they 
were preparing, at the date of their last letters, 
to return to the Gambia. 



FROM H. KILHAM TO WILLIAM ALLEN. 

Gloucester, Sierra Leone, 8th of 3rd Mo. 1824, 

" Dear Friend, 

" On the subjects of enquiry, respecting 
the productions of this country, and the yet more important 
concern of the state of the people, their manners, habits, and 

A 2 



tlispositions, and apparent ability for improvement, I would 
gladly convey to thee all the information we have been able 
to obtain ; yet attempt it with fear, feeling that, deeply inte^ 
resting as the subject is, it calls for more ability than I pos- 
sess, to select and compress such points of information as we 
have received, so as best to convey an idea of the subjects 
required. But if my heart might speak from what my eye 
has seen, I would say, I am fully convinced that it is not any 
inferiority in the African mind, or natural capacity, that has 
kept them in so depressed a state in the scale of society ; but 
the lack of those advantages which are, in the usual order of 
Providence, made use of as instruments for the advancement 
and improvement of human beings. Those disadvantages, 
which they, in common with other uncivilized nations, have 
suffered, have with them been cruelly increased, by that op-, 
pression, which, wherever exercised, has a natural tendency 
to fetter, to depress, and to blunt the powers of the mind 5 
and it is very unfair, and a great aggravation of the cruelty, 
to reflect on the victims of it, as lacking ability for any other 
station than that which they have been suffered to fill. I do 
not think that even here, Africans have had a fair trial of 
what they might be, had they the same advantages in educa- 
tion, and circumstances connected with education, which Eu-« 
ropeans have been favoured with ; yet their intelligent coun- 
tenances, and the ability they show when rightly instructed, 
evince, certainly, no lack in the natural powers of the mind j 
yet they come here, as to a foreign land, the language of 
which is quite strange and unknown to them ; they are taught 
in this strange language, (those of them who have school-in-s 
struction,) from lists of detached words, spelling-lessons, 
many of which they never hear but in those lessons j and their 
meaning, therefore, remains unknown. Their teachers ha,ving 
no way for the explanation of their lessons, not understanding 
the languages of their pupils, a broken English is substi- 
tuted as a medium of conversation, which consists of a very 
limited number of words; and this broken English is so 



widely different from the written language they sed in their 
books, that their lessons are still as in a foreign tongue, and 
much of them unintelligible. They have little communication 
with theii: teachers, or any Europeans, excepting just to re- 
ceive directions for work, and the usual routine of school 
lessons ; and wh^t they hear in their religious meetings, for 
religious instruction and worship. 

" The interrogative system is very little practised in these 
schools ; and, for want of it, the attention of the children is 
not so fixed upon the subject of their lessons as is desirable; 
and there would be a considerable difficulty in calling forth 
the observation of the children, to the subjects they read of, 
as in some of the public schools in England ; because, from 
the want of a better opportunity of acquiring a knowledge of 
the English language, and of the meaning of words, it is im- 
possible that they should understand what they read, as well 
as English children may. The teachers in the schools are 
fully aware of this, and much wish for some easier introduc- 
tory books, which the children could better understand than 
those they have at present. 

" Bear with my having said thus much on the subject, 
when, perhaps, other information ought to have preceded; 
but every thing I see here, or in the Gambia, as to school- 
instruction, confirms the sentiment, that the most facile means 
of instruction, in letters, to all, mtist, in the first instance, be 
the medium of their own native language. Ann Thompson 
is now teaching Jaloof artd English in the Gambia; and 
although we are fully satisfied she is going on diligently and 
well, we know that the accounts of her success, which we re- 
ceive from a merchant here, must be exaggerated. She is in 
much esteem among the people there ; and those who have 
children under her care, will much regret when she leaves 
them. Sandanee has a great wish to have a Jaloof and Eng- 
lish school in the Gambia; (at Bathurst ;) and if we should 
conclude it best, for the present, to fix him there, it will be 
only conditionally, until we can hear from the Committee, 



6 

wliose decision, respecting where he should be employed, he 
will, I have no doubt, willingly submit to. 

" It would have been pleasant to have met with the go- 
vernor at Sierra Leone, but no account has been received 
from the Cape, (Cape Coast,) since he left for that station, 
four months ago. They are hoping for his early return 
hither ; and he is also expected in the Gambia during 
the dry season, but we may possibly be disappointed. We 
were much recommended not to delay our visit here longer 
than this time, as the next packet may be near the rains be- 
fore the time of its return. We have received kind atten- 
tention from J. Reffles, from the missionaries, and others. 
The chief-justice called upon us, and kindly invited us to 
dinner ; but we were engaged to go to Wellington on that day. 
At that place we saw much to interest us in the family we vi- 
sited, which was that of T. and M. Macfoy. The first is a West 
Indian : his wife the daughter of an African, but well educated 
in America, where she was sent young for instruction. They 
are both intelligent and agreeable. T. M. is placed by the 
governor as superintendant of a village, and they have 
also a number of children under their care ; but are not 
members of the Church Missionary Society. They have 
a fine garden, in good cultivation, though only planted one 
season. T. M. is likely, I think, to set a valuable example 
in this department. His amiable wife is skilful in domestic 
arrangements, and in the management of her school of fifty- 
two girls. We spent a day there, going in from Kissey 
before breakfast ; and were received with that affectionate at- 
tention and kindness, which reminded us of the pleasure 
often experienced in arriving at our post in the morning of 
a Monthly-meeting day, and meeting the kind welcome from 
dear friends, which is so grateful on such occasions. M. 
Macfoy's servants are, of course, Africans, as all are that we 
have seen in this colony. It was evident they had been 
well instructed ; and, in the whole order of the domestic con- 
cerns, there was evident that kind of skilful machinery, which 



can effect its object without noise or stir. Maria Macfoy 
spoke to her attendant, who takes the principal charge of the. 
house business, with respect; and this is not every day seen, 
in speaking to African servants. I wish it were otherwise. 
The missionaries have succeeded better than most others that 
we have seen, in training young people to manage domestic 
business well ; and their houses exhibit more of domestic 
order and comfort than we have generally met with. Indeed, 
very few, except the missionaries, are married men ; and I 
doubt not, that it may be said here, as has been said in the 
Gambia, that many young men, when sick, are lost from 
want of proper care in nursing. 

" Much of the mortality here, and in the Gambia, which 
is attributed to climate, should, I believe, rather be attri- 
buted to circumstances not necessarily connected with the 
climate ; but rather arising from these settlements being in 
a state of comparative infancy, in which those every-day ac- 
commodations that are requisite to a European who has 
been accustomed to them at home, cannot be commanded or 
obtained. The animal food, in general, is inferior to that of 
England; the cattle and poultry not so well managed, and, 
consequently, more thin and poor ; the cooks inexperienced, 
and, in many families, left quite to themselves, and not fur- 
nished with any time-piece, whereby to regulate what they 
might have to do : so that, even in the boiling of an egg or 
a potatoe, there are mistakes, first on the one hand and then 
on the other ; and very young practitioners in these arts, who 
have never received any instructions, receive, instead of these, 
abundance of reproaches. In the houses of the missionaries 
whom we have visited, we have seen a very different order 
of things. Their habitations, as to neatness and accommo- 
dation, are as pleasant, and as much like England, as could 
be desired, or at least expected, where the style of building 
does not admit of things being in every respect as commodi- 
ous for a family, as an English house of the same size would 
be. So much room is taken up in piazzas, that houses are 



8 

often deficient, as to the nomber and size of lodging-rooms; 
and this, in a time of sickness, is no doubt a great disadvan- 
tage. The wives ©•f the missionaries find no insurmountable 
difficulty in teaching the African girls to be clever cooks, 
houae-maidsy and laundresses. I had the gratification, last 
weeky to see one of the poor girls who was rescued from the 
iron-hearted slave-dealer, who had confined his two remain- 
Hig victims in a cask on board. One of the girls is now 
married: the other is a chief monitor in the Church Mission- 
ary School, at Leopold, which consists of from 80 to 90 boys and 
girls ; and is conducted with much attention, by Phebe Da- 
vies, the wife of the superintendant of that village. Her 
husband is occupied in the care of the labourers, and general 
charge of the concerns of the place. The superintendants 
act as a kind of general parent, master, and magistrate, each 
for his own village; and in each village there is a court of 
requests, for the recovery of small debts \ to assist in which 
courts, the superintendants of the villages meet, and act a& 
commissioners. 

" In the school at Leopold was a little boy, who, in the 
course of six months, had learned to read in the Testament ; 
and in the neighbouring town of Charlottee, was a very little 
girl, apparently not more than five or six years of age, who 
read to me the account of the sick of the palsy restored, 
very agreeably, and had only had about fifteen months' in- 
struction. These are instances of memory ; yet even as to 
memory, such instances are not frequent in these schools. 
The number of Rible and Testament readers is generally 
ismall, in proportion to the number of scholars ; and this I 
do believe must be attributed to the children not well un- 
destanding the English language, for they really appear very 
lively and zealous in their application ^ and I long to see that 
application exercised to more effect, than it can be whilst 
they are learning mere lists of words, but few of which con- 
vey to their minds any definite sense or meaning. 

" There is one thing particularly pleasant in the schools : 



the children generally look clean, and healthy, and cheerful} 
and there is an air of friendly confidence in the people, when 
we meet with them in the villages, and in their own cottages, 
^ which is pleasant to see. Some have built themselves firm 
stone houses, with piazzas to them, and gardens behind. 
They have them neatly furnished: tent-beds and sofas, 
and all kept in nice order. These are some of the superior 
mechanics. The great lack here is good agriculturists, and 
an improvement in the system of education, so as to make the 
instruction which is given more intelligible, and to unite 
habits of industry with other parts of education, which might 
be done without overfatiguing the children. I have seen a 
remark somewhere, that * so long as a stone is out of its 
place,' there may be found occupation for the industry of the 
people ; and, indeed, there is here a fine field for industry, 
and for improvement. How often have I felt the loss of 
poor Bowdich, in riding through these mountains, and look- 
ing on the fine, luxuriant vegetation which abounds here, and 
in such beautiful variety : it would well repay the hand of 
cultivation ! But ' Africa is an unexplored country :' it will 
not, I trust, always be so. I cannot find that there is any 
hindrance to an healthful settlement being formed in any of 
the villages of Sierra Leone, which I have yet seen, unless it 
were Regent ; which, although it is considered as healthy in 
itself, at present, appears too much surrounded by moun- 
tains, to admit well of an extended population. I never felt 
the atmosphere more ])leasant, in any situation, than at 
Gloucester, Bathurst, Leopold, Charlottee, Kissey, and 
Wellington. The last place, or its vicinity, is what I would 
prefer before any I have yet seen. There are some distant vil- 
lages, Kent, York, and Hastings, which we do not expect to 
visit. Wilberforce is only a few miles from Freetown, and 
we hope to go there. There is not at present, in that place, 
any superintendant, and I think not any school. The charge 
will be taken, in part at least, very soon, I believe. The 
loss of missionaries, during the last year, has not been sup- 



10 

plied by new arrivals ; only one, with his wife, having been 
appointed to Freetown : should he remain long, he is ex- 
pected to take the office of chaplain. I have no doubt, in 
my own mind, that many of the missionaries, both male and 
female, have lost their lives, from being so circumstanced as 
not to be able to transfer their cares and labours soon 
enough, when failing from sickness ; and it would be a great 
advantage, if, in every station, each could be training a 
young person, as a kind of right-hand helper, whether Afri- 
can or English; and this might, I have no doubt, be done 
to good purpose, without either the missionaries, or the 
female school-teachers, improperly casting off their cares into 
the hands of junior agents. 

" This is, indeed, it must be allowed, a climate in which 
life seems to hang by a more slender thread than we feel sen- 
sible of in some other places, if we are much exposed to the 
heat of the sun, or dwell in situations in which its rays are 
peculiarly concentrated ; and this is peculiarly the situation of 
Freetown. The heat seems to be collected there as in a focus ; 
and I cannot myself spend a day in that town, without greatly 
feeling its relaxing effects. In the villages I am perfectly 
well, anjd feel as much prepared for any exertion, mental or 
otherwise, as when in England. The Gambia has been very 
sickly. The Commandant, when we left, was too ill to pre- 
pare the usual dispatches for the packet, yet recovering. 

" I heard, in the Gambia, a very sad account of the mor- 
tality among British seamen near Sierra Leone, from the hard 
exactions of their captains, in requiring them to bring up 
timber, often saturated with damp, putrid, vegetable matter. 
These poor men, employed in unremitting labour, in this way, 
through the heat of the day, often were attacked with fever, 
and, in many instances, were still compelled to work, when 
they should have been brought to the hospital; and the 
hospital received them only to die and be buried. I have 
heard here, that whilst many British sailors have evidently 
been lost and destroyed by the neglect and the hard treat- 



11 

ment they have received from their captains, that there are 
other masters of vessels pursuing a different conduct toward 
their men, the result of which has been striking. Captain 

, who is well known as a respectable and conscientious 

man, lost only one sailor in the course of thirty years. 

" It is now the 9th : we expect to leave on the 1 3th ; but 
each day after this will be fully occupied. We have much 
to acknowledge in having been favoured with such a degree 
of health, and having met an open reception here, as well as 
great kindness from all about us in the Gambia. Some of 
the natives told Sandanee they would be glad to come to our 
house on First-day, and hear the Jaloof Scriptures read. 
They heard with great attention and quietness, and I believe 
understood what was read; and remained very still after- 
wards. 

" It seems very evident, from what we hear, that civiliza- 
tion is prevented, or has been prevented, along the coast, by 
the prevalence of the horrid traffic in men ; and the interior, 
north of the line, is much more civilized than near the coast. 
The interior of the south appears to be little known. I wish 
the sceptics as to African capacity could have seen a Foulah 
man, of striking and intelligent countenance, who was here 
the other day, and have heard his melodious reading of 
Arabic manuscripts. I am informed, both here and in the 
Gambia, that the Mahomedans of Western Africa are the 
most orderly and well-conducted part of the African popu- 
lation. Their zeal in the promotion of Arabic schools should 
stimulate Europeans of higher profession. The Mahomedans 
in the North are considered as proud and cruel ; yet some 
European travellers on a journey of research, whom a medi- 
cal man here was speaking of a few days ago, met with 
friendly reception and safe guidance among them. If per- 
sons be suitably introduced, so as that their designs are fully 
known, I believe intercourse, where only good is intended, 
would, in most places, be made more easy than some are 
willing to believe it could be. 



12 

*' J. R. says, it is impossible for any but ah eye witness id 
Conceive the wretched state in which the poor victims of 
slavery are brought in from the captured vessels : and, in- 
deed, in a school in this colony, which has been formed since' 
the rest, chiefly from new importations of these poor little 
slaves, it makes one's heart droop to see the state of impove- 
rishment, from sickness, in which some of them still remain. 
When I pointed out the healthier-looking girls, and asked 
where they came frdm, they were all either found to be thei 
children of soldiers, or born in the colony. The great girls in 
the schools have to carry these poor sick children about on 
their backs for a long time : many are six months before their 
strength can be restored, and many die. Dr. Ritchie told 
me, in the Gambia, that a person seeing them landed here 
from the slave-vessels, (he had himself resided here,) would 
pronounce at once, from their state, that half of them could 
not live. I am told, that the distressing sickness and weak- 
ness of the children who are thus brought in, is sometimes 
such that they do not want to live, but desire only to die. 

" I am grieved to hear that the slave-trade is still abound- 
ing in the Rio Pongas, and that south of Sierra Leone it is 
carried on in a most sanguine manner. The Portuguese ves- 
sels are miserably poor and incommodious, and extremely ill 
provided. They are so ill built often, or so worn, as only to 
be calculated for a voyage of three weeks' sail before the 
wind ; and have been known to be out three months, includ- 
ing the time of sailing up here, when re-captured. The 
people are, in these circumstanced, distributed, I apprehend, 
generally, into the other vessels. It has been suggested that 
vessels Jitted out for slaves should be liable to seizure, as it is 
well known what must be the design with such vessels ; and 
that this might prevent suffering, which the present system of 
capture can only counteract after much has been already en- 
dured, and many lives lost. 

" I cannot but sincerely desire and hope that a Friends' 
settlement may one day be formed in Sierra Leone. How 



gladly would I return to it for a season, should the way ap- 
pear as plain before rae as it appeared to be previous to this 
visit ; which, although it be a time rather for silent thought 
and feeling, than for the accomplishment of any thing that 
could serve either the dear children or the people, yet I am 
satisfied in having moved at the season that seemed best, so 
far as I could see ; and I feel this place, for the present, quite 
like home to me : so much so, that even if I should ever 
return, my heart will be often here, as in a scene that cannot 
be forgotten. The accommodations, or the enjoyments, or 
the continuance of life, have never, I think, appeared, since 
I came to Africa, of so little value in comparison of the pur- 
suit of the one great object, the humble endeavour, through 
Divine assistance, to follow the path that may be appointed to 
US by the Great Parent of the universe. And truly, when 
we look on the fields that call for labourers in the present 
critical state of things, and how very wide these fields really 
are, how shall we think otherwise, than that self should be 
lost sight of, excepting so far as the claims of duty and of 
kindred shall demand from us ? And these obligations are 
doubtless as sacred, at least, as those which relate to more 
distant objects ever can be. But there is a Light that can 
surely guide in all places and in all circumstances," 



fROM JOHN THOMPSON TO WILLIAM ALLEN. 

Sierra Leone, lOth of 3d Mo. 1824. 

" Esteemed Friend, 

" Hannah Kilham has been at three villages in the 
mountains, to which I was prevented accompanying her, in 
consequence of going up the river with a merchant of the name 
of Mac Cormack, who very kindly offered to take me with 
him to Tombo, an island about twenty-five miles up the river, 
for which he pays the natives, who are of a nation called 



14 

Timmanees, an annual rent, and on which he has erected a very 
good dwelling-house, &c. after the African fashion. He is 
very extensively engaged in the timber trade, and the natives 
float it down the river a considerable way from his settlement. 
I very much enjoyed our sail up the river, and could not but 
admire the beautiful appearance of its banks, covered with 
timber to the water's edge, some of it growing to a great size. 
On our way we passed several islands, the river, in many 
places, being five or six miles wide ; amongst others, Bance 
Island, a place, before the abolition, noted for the number of 
slaves annually shipped there for the West India islands. The 
remains of a fort and other extensive buildings, in which they 
kept the slaves, are still to be seen. The proprietor was a 
person of the name of Anderson ; but at present it belongs to 
a merchant of the name of Williams, who is largely engaged 
in the timber trade. John Mac Cormack told me, since he 
began the timber trade, which I think he mentioned was within 
the last seven years, the natives up this river are very much 
changed for the better, and have quite given up the idea of 
selling each other for slaves. He thinks that, at present, 
there may be six or seven thousand natives employed in the 
cutting and floating down of timber to the different shipping- 
stations in this river. What a pleasant contrast to the time 
when slavery existed here, with all its attendant sufferings ! 
From any thing I can learn, and I have made a good deal of 
enquiry on the subject of the Slave-trade, and from people of 
the best information in this colony, it does not appear that 
there is much of it carried on at present on this coast. The 
Portuguese are the principal people engaged in it. They have 
some settlements between here and the Gambia, and it is 
thought they frequently export slaves from the neighbouring 
rivers ; but there has not any slave-vessel been brought in 
here this length of time. The land in general, up the river, is 
of a very superior quality, and, if cleared and cultivated, I 
have no doubt would produce very abundantly ; but in the 
mountain villages about Sierra Leone the soil is quite of a 



15 

different kind, with the exception of one or two places ; being 
for the most part of a red gravelly nature. In fact, the trees 
on the mountains plainly show the soil is much inferior to 
that up the river, being generally of a poorer and more 
stunted appearance ; but they are, notwithstanding, covered to 
their very summits with evergreen trees and shrubs ; and 
the scenery, in many places, is exceedingly picturesque and 
beautiful. But this gravelly soil answers well for the growth 
of coffee, and latterly the merchants are turning their atten- 
tion to its cultivation. Arrow-root and ginger likewise thrive 
remarkably well, and require but little attention. I must say, 
I felt regret at seeing cultivation so much neglected ; and 
where any thing of the kind is carried on, it is generally 
badly executed. One great cause of it is, in my opinion, 
the want of persons well acquainted with agriculture. But 
this is not the best season of the year to see the African 
mode of culture ; the best time for that being in, and imme- 
diately after, the rains. The liberated Africans, in all the 
villages, grow cassada, cocoa, and rice ; but the latter not to 
any great extent. But the natives up the river grow it in 
great quantities ; boiled rice and palm-oil being almost their 
whole subsistence; and from the quantity they grow, they 
can supply the liberated Africans and others with it at a very 
moderate price. 

" On my return to the Gambia, I intend taking with me 
some cuttings of vines, coffee-plants, pine-apple plants, and 
several other seeds and plants, which are not to be met with 
there. On those parts of the coast of Africa that I have seen, 
but especially in the neighbourhood of Sierra Leone, there is 
a wide field for the botanist. I very much regret the not 
having it in my power to give thee some information on that 
subject. If I were to give an opinion respecting the abilities 
of the Africans, from the little I have seen of them, their manu- 
factures, &c. it would be that if they, from their infancy, had 
the same care bestowed on their education, and brought up 
with the habits and resources of Europeans, they would be 



16 

equally clever; but we cannot expect to change the habits and 
manners of those Africans that are come to years of maturity : 
it is from the young and rising generation we may hope for 
improvement, in proportion to the labour bestowed. 

" P. S. Since my arrival here, Hannah Kilham received a 
letter from our friend Richard Smith, in which he mentioned 
that they were all well at the Gambia. I have my health full 
as well as when in Ireland, which I esteem a great favour." 



FROM H. KILHAM TO T. BEVANS. 

" Gloucester J lOtk of 3d Mo. 

■ " I fear that we shall leave Sierra Leone 

with some feelings of regret ; the field is so wide, and the 
time of our being here so short. I have no doubt that, as 
the stations here become more settled, the healthiness of the 
place will improve. The chief difficulty with respect to 
climate, I think, is in the situation of the chief town ; and no 
doubt, after a time, those who take up their residence there, 
will, if they can, have country-houses, to return to in the 
evenings ; as the merchants and others, many of them, have 
in the British metropolis. Against such an arrangement is 
the circumstance of persons who reside here, mostly looking 
forward to return to England, and two houses would be more 
than they would like to build, or to purchase; and, im- 
portant as it is, that trade should be freely carried on here, 
for the good of the natives, it would be a great advantage, if 
a few country-houses, not far from Freetown, were built, and 
let for an annual rent. 

'* There are now very few missionaries here ; and those 
who are, are much engaged in superintending the work of 
the men, the buildings, roads, &c. and in settling their little 
' palavers,' when there is any dispute among the people. But 



17 

the Africans are affectionate and tractable, and not difficult 
to manage here. They have great confidence in the go- 
vernorj and in others who are placed over them. 

" Four of us took a walk from Regent to Leicester Moun- 
tain, one evening ; and having to return to Regent, to lodge, 
we set out whilst the sun was yet shining rather strongly : 
we rested on an old tree, on the side of a hill, as the ascent 
was long and steep. From a hut which was near, the people 
came out to speak to us, with very lively, pleasant counte- 
nances ; and brought two little wooden benches for us to sit 
down upon, and a very fine pine-apple for our refreshment : 
we thought it was the finest we had tasted in Africa, and, 
perhaps, it was not merely our weariness that led us to think 
so. Most pine-apples we have seen, grow wild ; and this, I 
think, was from their own little garden. They offered us a 
second, but the first was sufficient for us ; and after staying a 
little while there, we proceeded on our way. There were 
about seventy people in the hospital at Leicester Mountain, 
chiefly confined with ulcers, or with small-pox. They are 
sent from all the villages to this hospital, except such as are 
too distant. 

" The medical superintendant, Dr. Ferguson, having the 
hospital, his leading care, at hand, and his horse to take him 
to more distant duties, does not, perhaps, find all the dis- 
advantages which might, by some others, be experienced in 
so remote and elevated a residence. He takes much pains to 
promote vaccination ; but many of the people are very care- 
less on this point. Dr. F. accompanied us part of the way, 
on our return. I was much interested with his conversation, 
at that time, and each time that we have met since, and have 
had opportunity to converse on many subjects. He says his 
expectations are sanguine, with regard to our future success 
*in the system of instruction, through the medium of the 
native languages: he expressed his interest on this subject 
the first time I saw him. Our walk, in returning to Regent, 



18 

after he left us, was nearly all the way ih the dark, through 
a narrow path, which we were really glad to have illumi- 
nated by frequent flashes of lightning. The lightning here 
is not accounted dangerous; and, some evenings since we 
came, has been seen, almost without intermission, in the dis- 
tant sky, very fine and beautifuL On this evening there was 
also distant thunder, and, before we got to our post, a shower 
of rain, from which, however, an umbrella was a sufficient 
shelter. 

" I mentioned to R. F. in a letter sent about three weeks 
since, that we had thought it best that a visit should be paid 
to the king of Combo, in whose territory our house at Birkow 
is situated, without deferring it until we could all collect 
there; and it seems very well, from an observation of the 
king's, at the time of the visit, that it was not delayed. I 
will copy R. S's. account, or most of it; only omitting some 
trifling particulars about the females being pleased with some 
fine workbags and pincushions. 

' " The Alcaide of Birkow accompanied me to Yindum, on 
the 11th (of 2nd Mo.) We passed through Savage, a popu- 
lous village, about four miles from hence. Yindum I judged 
to be about five miles further. We arrived there about nine 
in the morning, and staid an hour and a half at the house of 
the Alcaide's friend: in the interim a pei'son was sent to in- 
form the king of our arrival ; and we then went to the king's 
house, accompanied by several head-men. Soon after we 
were seated, the king came. I will endeavour to state the 
substance of what passed, as Mahraadee afterwards gave it 
to me. The Alcaide informed the king, ' I come down with 
with my white man (stranger) to visit you : he wants to settle 
in your land, and, before he settles, he comes to see you.' 
The king expressed his love, and said, ' I am very glad of 
that.' A head-man then informed the king, ' they bring 
you something to come to see you. I opened all the things 
in my house, to see what they bring you.' The king answered, 
' All is right;' and said, 'what we come for to see him is 



19 

all very good: he is very pleased with the tilings.' He said 
further. * If any body come to settle in a strange land, if 
he come to show himself to the master of the land, it is all 
right: something might happen; he, the master, can help 
hira-, b-Qt if they not come to see him first, if any injury 
happen, he cannot help them.' So, if he (the king) had only 
heard of us, as being in the land, if any injury happen, he 
cannot help us. The head-man then opened the present : he 
expressed himself well pleased with the present, (an umbrella, 
romals, blae and red children's picture-handkerchiefs, blue 
baft, and writing paper; with some work-bags and pin- 
cushions for the women,) and much obliged for our kindness, 
and the Alcaide did right to come with us. Our certificate 
was read, which Mahmadee interpreted. It was further ex- 
plained by the Alcaide, which I judged took up an hour. 
The slave-trade was spoken about. The king said, ' The 
Mandingoes never went to war with another nation, to catch 
one another : the Jolas and Wolofs bring their slaves down 
to the Mandingoes, which they (the Mandingoes) buy and 
keep to work for them. S. and M's. instruction in Eng- 
land was explained by the Alcaide, which the king said 
was very kind of friends. On the subject of schools, the 
Alcaide said his children were taught the Arabic, and he had 
no desire for them to learn the English language. A pro- 
posal was made to the king, through the Alcaide, for taking 
a youth, in about two months. The king said he cannot tell 
yet, till he see how we settle first. When we are ready to 
receive the boy, we may let the Alcaide know, who will send 
word to the king: he is not yet settled in his mind whether 
he will send a boy. It was thought best, when we met in 
conference at Bathurst, to make an offer to the king, to re- 
ceive an intelligent boy from Yindum, into our family, and 
train him as a teacher for a school. The Alcaide, although 
he does not wish his children to learn English, seemed so 
pleased with what he saw at Bathurst, of Mandingo lessons, 

B 2 



20 

that I think it probable he will in time be disposed to en- 
courage schools for their own language, although he does not 
value English. 

•• The Alcaide wished to distribute a few things himself, 
among his friends at Yindum, and R. S. supplied him with 
several articles for this purpose." 



FROM JOHN THOMPSON TO LUKE HOWARD. 

" Sierra Leone, 2d Mo. 21. 

*' On Fourth-day (2 Mo. 18) we visited Wellington, 
where we spent a very pleasant day. The man who has the 
oversight at this village, and his wife, are both people of 
colour : they were extremely kind to us, and put me in mind 
of Friends. In my opinion this village, in point of situation, 
is preferable to Kissey, and the streets more regular. I saw 
some beautiful land adjoining, planted with yams and Indian 
corn. I felt regret at seeing so much fine land uncultivated : 
however, the merchants are beginning to turn their attention 
to the cultivation of coffee, which grows in the mountains. 
Arrow-root and ginger grow remarkably well, if paid proper 
attention to, and might soon become valuable articles of ex- 
port. I was equally surprised, the other morning, on taking 
a walk through the market of Freetown, to find it so well 
supplied with fruit and vegetables; such as pine-apples, 
oranges, plantains, bananas, limes, yams, cassada, sweet 
potatoes, and a great variety of other fruits and vegetables, 
the names of which I am not acquainted with. But all kinds 
of flesh-meat are extravagantly dear, and of very inferior 
quality." . 



SI 



HANNAH KILHAM TO LUKE HOWARD. 

" FreetowJi, 2d Mo. 21. 

" On Second-day, the 15th, we went, in company with 
J. Reffles, and P. Shower and his wife, to Kissey ; and on the 
day following were accompanied by G. Nylander, and his 
sister-in-law Wentzel, to Wellington. We much enjoyed 
our visit to both these places. An account of many things 
that engaged our attention there I have minuted in my jour- 
nal, and intended sending by this vessel ; but have been in- 
disposed for a day or two, and must, for the present, be satis- 
fied with a short letter. 

" There is a very sensible difference in the atmosphere of 
the country-towns and this of Freetown. At Kissey and at 
Wellington we enjoyed a fine refreshing breeze ; and I was 
ready to conclude that, with good care, these situations would 
be found not only very pleasant, but healthy, even for 
Europeans. There are many circumstances, in addition to 
climate, which have caused Europeans to suffer in their health 
here. 

" On the morning on which your letters were received, and 
at the same moment, indeed, we were informed of the death 
of Captain Smith. This has felt very impressive to us all ; 
and will not, I believe, be an impression soon to pass by. 

" We are here amidst scenes and mementos of mortality 
that must be felt ; yet they are not, I think, felt depressingly, 
but remind us how desirable it is that the heart should be 
fixed on treasures and enjoyments that are not mutable. And, 
indeed, there is a field here that pleads for cultivation, even 
though the culture may seem difficult, and incur great 
sacrifices. Oh ! how do the abominations of the Slave-trade 
strike the heart, when we see here poor little emaciated crea- 
tures, little more than human skeletons, who, although they 
have been three months in the colony, and carefully nursed. 



22 

have not recovered the effects of the inlmman bondage they 
have suffered in the slave-ships. 

" I am wishing to make a trial of a short vocabulary of 
words, and a few sentences of Timmanee, Sussoo, and one or 
two other languages ; and shall have, I think, a good oppor- 
tunity to do so. G. Nylander kindly offers to furnish me 
with interpreters for the Timmanee and Sussoo, from his 
school ; one a master and the other a scholar. He fully ap- 
proves the principles of orthography I have adopted, and 
thinks the words are, in the African Lessons, made as plain 
as possible. I presented him with a set, and brought ^rle 
also for J. Reffles. We have been received with much kind- 
ness here, at Kissey, and at Wellington. 

" They greatly want here some one who would pay an al- 
most uiidivided attention to agricultural improvement. The 
residents here being much occupied in other concerns, this 
important business is greatly neglected ; and some of the 
common comforts of European life, which might, by good 
management, be abundant here, are now very scarce and 
dear. Butter is generally had from England, and often very 
rancid : eggs, at Sierra Leone, half-a-crown a dozen : milk, 
2d. or 3d. a wine-glass full : mutton, Is. a pound. 

" Ever here, abundant as are the powers of production, the 
industry of man is wanting to give to the country that fresh- 
ness and beauty that enrich the scenery of an English pro- 
spect. The dead trees remain bare and cheerless among the 
living ; and some of the beautiful plants that are found among 
the deep ravines, are never transferred to stations in which 
the eye could oftener partake of the enjoyment of their 
beauty, whilst the heart was reminded of the kind beneficence 
of Creative Power. It is, doubtless, an appointment intended 
for the good of mankind, that all vegetation should be im- 
proved by culture. This colony has many fine vegetables, 
which might much promote the health of the people, as 
articles of daily food ; and particularly several of a nutritious 
quality, which in this climate would, to Europeans, be very 
valuable." 



23 



HANNAH KILHAM TO ROBERT FORSTER, 

Gloticester, 11th of 3rcl Mo. 
i.\.i , " The Ocro, the kerring kerring, the paw paw, 

and some otlier native vegetables, liave an excellent gelatin- 
ous quality, when used either in soups, or as a vegetable 
alone. The African sorrel has a considerable pulp in the 
blossom, from which either tarts, or a mess like green goose- 
berries, when mixed with sugar, may be made, and which, in 
this climate, is grateful and refreshing; yet milk is scarce in 
this colony, and seldom obtained but from the goats. Eggs 
I mentioned as being half-a-crown a dozen, and these not 
much larger than pigeons' eggs. There is a scarcity of suit- 
able provision for the cattle here. A great many die; and 
I cannot but think, with regard to these, as well as to human 
beings, that attention to suitable provision, and care in some 
other respects, might be a great means of prolonging life. I 
cannot, my dear friend, conceive, that the continuance of 
life, in this world, is so much to be desired, as to authorize all 
the fears and apprehensions that have been urged, to pre- 
vent any persons from settling here, except from a very clear 
conviction that it was their duty to make such a sacrifice. 
•We may be like the Israelites, looking for signs, when suffi- 
cient evidence had already been imparted. I am far from 
being disposed to put any individuals upon engagements that 
should rather result from their own feelings; but I do not 
think that the length, or shortness of life, is of so much con- 
sequence as to prevent our encountering even a dangerous 
climate, where good is to be done. Are not people exposed 
to dangers, in many occupations, in which there is less to be 
placed in the opposite scale, as inducements to engage in 
them, than there would be in forming schools and farms in 
the Gambia and Sierra Leone? Let it not be said: * Ah, 
these are H. K.'s sentiments, with her prepossessions !' but 
let it be fairly considered, whether the prospect of doing 



M 

good, should not be as powerful a stimulus to encountering 
danger or difficulty, as the merchants or official men have in 
the colonies, to induce a residence here on their own ac- 
count. Do not say we are to judge and act for ourselves, 
and leave others to do the same. I am not pleading on this 
subject, as pointing out what any individual should do ; but 
only in general terms, that our principle of action should 
rather be a conformity to the divine law of love to God and 
man, than any consideration how life may be longest pre- 
served, or our own accommodations the best secured. It is 
not outward accommodations that can give the highest en- 
joyments. These may be partaken of in a ship, or in a bar- 
barous land, as well as by our own winter's fire, or in our 
summer's garden. But I forget that it is information you are 
wanting, and have slidden, without intending it, into other, 
though not foreign subjects. Joseph Reffles informs me that 
the natives act well on juries: the Maroons, especially, who 
may be considered as descendants, rather than natives, give 
as good judgment as an English jury would do. J. R. con- 
siders the Africans as peaceable, orderly, and moral a popu- 
lation as can be met with, or as he has met with. I think 
these were his expressions ; and, as superintendant of 
liberated Africans, no one here, I apprehend, can have a 
better opportunity of knowing them. The European co- 
lonists of Sierra Leone, have several times remarked, that 
people in England are under a great mistake, in supposing 
that a native youth, with very little instruction in the schools, 
would be sufficient to teach as a master, and as an instructor 
of the people in the neighbouring villages. They say, on 
the contrary, that very acute reasoners are found among the 
natives, and especially the Mahomedans, who would soon 
baffle an inexperienced youth in this way. 

" There is one additional disadvantage which Europeans 
suffer here, which I forgot to mention, in speaking of the 
climate not being the sole cause of unhealthiness here. The 
windows are mostly without glass, and many without any 



25 

4 

blind, or defence against rain, except the shutters ; so that, 
in the rainy seasons, to exclude the wet, the inhabitants have 
often had to sit all day, enclosed, without any light but that 
of lamps or candles ; and in the course of residence of some 
now living here, it is remembered that there were very few 
houses which did not admit: rain through the warped shingles 
in the roof; and not a dry spot to be found in the house, even 
for their bed. These and many other circumstances prove, 
that much of the sickness and mortality that has been known 
here, has resulted from circumstances connected with a 7iew 
settlement, rathbr tlian that all should be attributed to insur- 
mountable difficulties from the climate. Even from the little 
experience we have had in the Gambia, I have felt convinced 
that more is suffered by persons, who, engaged in other pur- 
suits, *^annot act as cooks and domestics for themselves, 
(from the lack of their wonted accommodations, and the 
services of intelligent and well-instructed domestics,) than 
what is suffered from the change of climate alone; yet, 
doubtless, the relaxing effects of a hot climate, make it more 
difficult to bear the want of customary accommodations, 
without suffering. Neither can as much labour be expected 
from Europeans here, as they might engage in in England ; 
and if they are not so circumstanced as to be able to rest, 
when on the verge of exhaustion, health may soon be under- 
mined, and life give way. 

" We had got over our first difficulties in the Gambia; and 
our habit of living was such as we prefer to any we have yet 
seen, as to our own choice : boiled rice and milk, for break- 
fast, with French chocolate and bread and butter for those 
who chose. I took eggs sometimes, but the rest did not. At 
dinner (about two) we had often soup and stewed meat; as 
the meat is not like that in England, but hard, and best 
cooked in this way. In the evening, at six, on coming from 
the king's boys' school, we found the table spread for tea and 
French chocolate ; and often some of our neighbours came in 



Q6 

and partook with us ; and we offered them, in addition, our 
English gingerbread, or bread with honey and caraway- 
seeds, or with butter, if they chose it. It has been a great 
advantage to us to have had always pleasant society in our 
own family; whilst in the greatest number of families, both 
here and in the Gambia, there has been but one single 
European, unless, perhaps, some junior helpers as clerks, 
But I must not now proceed further, either pn lar^e subjects 
or small — African instruction, or the manner of recruiting 
the weary by chocolate and bread, with honey and seeds. 
But really, people rannnt. get on well in Afrit^a, nnless they 
will attend to little things, as well as to those of a more 
weighty nature. We are told, that so diminutive creatures 
as the travelling ants, will devour a man, if they come upon 
him at a time when he is too weak to put them away," 



THE END. 



Harvey, Darton, and Co. Frintefs, 
Craccchurch-Street, London. 



