VINDICATION 

OF THE 

ADDRESS 

T TH E 

PEOPLE OF GREAT-BRITAIN, 

ON THE USE OF 

\Y EST INDIA PRODUCE. 

WITH SOME 

OBSERVATIONS AND FACTS RELA^^IVE TO 
THE SITUATi^N OF SLAVES. 

IN -ANSWER TO 

A FEMALE APOLOGIST FOR SLAVERY. 
THE SECOND EDITION, 

WITH s r R I c ru F £ s on her 

REPU^ TO A REPLY, 
By R 1 C H A R D H I L L I E R. 

SUGAR, It has been- faid, wovtld be dear, if not worked by B'acks 
in the Weftevn Iflands j * * * Kut let Sugar be'as dear as it ir.ay, it 
is better to eat none ; to eat Honey If >svveetr>efs only be palatable ; 
better ta eat Ab es or Colnquintida tban vi' late a primary Law of 
Nature, impreired on every Heart not irobruted by Avarice, or rob 
one human Creature of thofe eternal Rights of which no Lavv up ^n 
Earth can juftly deprive hina. 

Sir Wm. Jones's Speech to the 
Freehulders of Middlefex. 

LONDON: 

BOLD BY M. GURIsTEY, NO. 1X8, HOLBORN, L. WAY- 
LAND, MIDDLE-ROW, AND T. KNOTT, NO. 47, LOM- 
•BARD-STREET. 

[Price Two-Pence.] 



,710 



•r*««aa*a»*_^9aM(>kiM<9MtCaBAia» 



E T T E R, &c. 



MADAM, 
FEW days ago, your pamphlet was put into my 
£\_ hands. Having rejeded the produce of the Weft 
Indian fugar cane ever fmce parliament thought proper to 
turn a deaf ear to the fupplications of the nation, in be- 
half of the injured Africans *, I rejoiced to iind that ^he 
propriety of purchafing commodities, obtain :d by a fyite-^ 
matic courfe of legal oppreilion, was in a fair v/ay of being 
inveftigated ; but I little thought that, in a nation tena- 
cious of its liberty, v/nich had given birth toaMacauiey, 
a Barbauld, and a Williams, 1 ever (hould have found a fe- 
male apologiil: for flavery f. Had not fome general idea 
of the deceitfulnefs of the heart put me upon my guard, [ 
could not have imagined that the holy fcriptures would have 
been quoted in fupport cf villainy and fraud. People are 
fometimes theunwiilinginilruments of accelerating general 
good: you may have thepleafure of reficdiing hereafter, that 

* Th- Female Apologlft afks, " But why not abftain from Its ufe long 
fcefore ? — W'as your conlciencc aflecp tUi that Ipiiit of revenge, which 
breathes in both your pamphlecs, rouled it from its toipor ?" 1 ha.ye not 
the honour of being the author of the vveil-tlmsd, and Ipirited Addief., to 
the People of Great Britain j but my confcience was certajnly aflcep, as 
far as relates to its contents, tiii I faw it in manufcript. 

+ The lady fays, " 1 neither wrote in defence of, nor in opp.Tfit'on t^, 
the flave trade, but thought it a question involved in fo many diiScuUic-s 
that it required a w'.fer head than mine properly to difcufs." bome recent 
difcovery of inherent wifdom has induced her to difcard an opinion Co muck 
beneath the truth. She is now abie to give a clear, hliioncal vindication 
of t lat commerce, Supported by fuch " facb as no one can dil^>iuve. "' bte 
fage -ioof her Reply, 

A 2 t]ie 



( 4 ) 

the cUfcufTion you promoted was fatnl to your cnuTe. In order 
tofecure the attainment of rodcfirable an end, 1 fhalldifcufs 
the do^hlrines you have laid down, as concifely as I am able. 
Should r, in the courfe of argument, treat ihem or their 
author, with too little rerpe(5L, my excufe will be, that when 
writing againft cruelty it is natural forrhe to forget, that I 
am writing to a woman '*. At your firft off-f.t, you take 
care to intorm us, ** That you are not fo devoid of the feel- 
ings of humanity, or Chrillian principles, as to wifli flavery 
and opprefiion to any individual of the human race.'* It 
was kind in you to tell the world of your humanity and 
your Chriftianity ; ap, without fome fuch friendly hint, 
no exertion of human fagacity could have difcovered that 
you poff.fi' d any thing like the humanity of the eighteenth 
century, or the Chriidanity of the New Tellament. But 
if you are real/v an enemy to flavery, why do you plead in 
its defence ? You are at fome pains to inform us of its 
great antiquity. You tell us that it was regularly carried 
on when Jacob's fons fold their brother. We believe it 
Vv'as before that time. We believe, 

** Proud Nimrod firfl the bloody chace began ; 
** A mighty hunter, and his prey was man !" 

But if the antiquity of flavery ftamp it with dignity, how 
honourable is murder ! for, in the days of our firft parents, 
Cain rofe up againfl Abel, his brother, and flew him. As 
to what was tolerated among the Jews, it is not of fufHcient 
importance to our prefent queflion to merit much atten- 
tion ; as, if it proves any thing, it proves, that as they were 
permitted toenflave all nations, the claim of us poor Eng- 
lifhmen to liberty, is contrary to the revealed will of heaven. 
Your hufband fliould alfo be informed that polygamy is very 
ancient, that it was univerfal at the time the law was given 

* Thismyfair anta^on'ft allov/s I might Innocently do, but at the farne 
time wittily oblerves, " that the large quantity of acrimony contained in 
my portion informb the world that either myfelF, or the paity whole caufe 
1 have the hun"ur- to efp .ufe, felt ourfelvcs ftung by a woman." True we 
did fo, but though from the buz, which apprized us of the approach of 
f )methino venemous, we were induced to expe£l a wafp, yet we are novr 
convinced that what we fek was only a temporary tingle, occafioned by the 
acetous depofit of an indultrloiis inleft, whofe unremitting vigilance 
prompted her to embrace a favourable opportunity of dragging a b.)riey 
corn to her«eUt 

to 



( s ) 

tb Tfrael, that It was in ufe among the Jews, and that, like 
flavery, it continues among that people in vanous parts of 
the world to this day. Should the reduflion of your Lheory 
to pradlice, produce any family uneafmefs, you ate not ig- 
norant, that Mofcs fuffcrcd his diiciples, to write bills of 
divorcement, and to put away their wives. 

The Ro:Tians, you inform us, ** with all their boaftcd li- 
berty,- praehfed flavery." And it is alfo certain, that, witli 
all their boafted knowledgr-, they pradifed the molt llupid 
iJohitry. Thcfe fads only prove that ignorance of liberty, 
and ignorance of piety, go hand in hand. Having efta- 
blifhed the antiquity of Haveryj'you exultingly e;<claim, 
•* A cuilom thus ancient — thus univerfal — is it not more 
a matter of furprife, that it fnor.ld fo long have fubfided i.i 
fo ir.any parts of thf world, than th it it iVll continues the 
fcourg'j of Africa ?*' ^^a : rather let the heavens wonder, 
and the earth be aftoniflied, that, while we are furrounded 
with fo many inftantes where the name of Chrift has reached 
the ear, we find fo few where his religion has reached. the 
heart J and that there fliould ftillexift men, who, while they 
pretend to love their neighbour as themfelves, yet ftrain 
every nerve to detain him in perpetual bondage. '1 his, ive 
are requind to belienjey is not your cafe ; you only reprobate 
the dodlrine of the addrefs, as ** propofing means inade- 
quate to ics end. And recommending a real evil on the 
vague fjppofition that good may come." V/hcther the 
means propofed by the author of the addrefs, are adequate 
to their end or not, remains to be proved. And, with re- 
fped't to the evil he recommends, we ought to have been in- 
formed, v'/heiher it is a natural or moral evil. As it breathes 
nothing but univerfal gcod-will to men, and contains no 
avowed feniiment inimical to Deity, if any evil is propofed 
it muilbe a natural evil : and we are jultihed in doing that, 
in order to fecure a greater good. If not, why did you 
marry, and expofe yourfelf to the probability of dying ia 
child-birth? C3r why do people in general fubmit to the 
samputation of a difeafed limb ? Are not the rifk of deatli 
and amputation in themfelves evil? ? 

Vw'e are next told, that, " The author's calculation of 
the number of murders muft certainly be exaggerated, as 
by the late regulation of the number in proportion to the 
(hip's loiinagc, and the appointment of furgeons, mull 

A 3 need: 



( 6 ) 

seeds prevent a great deal of the evils he mentions." Now 
would it not have been a little more modeft jull: to have 
pointed out where a man's calculations were wrong, than to 
ailert," They mu ft certainly be exaggerated, tx\qx^\)' becaufe^ 
iheymuft? And ihould not yea, who fliudderat the thought 
©f paffing by a fugar-plum as a real evil, have given us 
an exadl llatementof the ratio of murder we might commit, 
without tranTgreiTing the limits of yoiar curious humanity-.^ 
Has your benevolent parliament regulated the quantity of 
bad Vv'eather the ihips are to meet with on the middle paf- 
fage ? liave the fapient fkulls of legifiators devifed a mod© 
by which, they can prevent a (hip from finking, when flie 
fprings a leak ? Are your furgeonsof Guineamen fuch very 
clever fellows, above all the profellion, that they can cure 
grief, and fear, and the effeds of a foul atmofplierc; r if yoa 
cannot anfwer thefe quefiions in the affirmative, ^ell us by 
what difpenfation fi-orn a God of mercy, you confign juli 
men and innocent children to a floating hell •; or elfe relin- 
quiilr your impious claim to ChriRianity. You inform us 
thatj ** It can be no more the interell of a planter to ftarve 
or murder his flavCj than it is of a farmer to kill his horfe." 
This ftale argument a priori muft be confidered by thofe 
who have been in the Weft-Indies, or who have read the 
evidence before parliament, as a piece of impertinence not 
worth anfwering. But, if you will come before the pub- 
lic a fecond time, and attempt to prove that farmers never 
abufe their horfes, never entruft them to their fervants, 
never kill them when worn out ; and, moreover, that a 
horfe and an African are animals fo nearly alike, that we 
jiave as much right toenflave the one as to faddle the other, 
then I wilireafon with you upon your own grounds *. 

There may poifibly be a few perfons in London who die 
jn confeq^uence of oppreiTion, or who are murdered. But to 

* To this objc£tIon againi^ her brvital comparifon, the lady makes no 
anfwer. A melancholy inftance of the poor iecunty which the Intereft of 
a mafter affords to the exillance of a Jlave now challenges thepublic atten- 
fion. There is in St Thomas's Holpita! a lad of the Mocoa nation, who 
was recently brought from liis native country. His tyrant thought proper 
to fend him to England ; for what purpnfe it is n^t neceilary to enquire. 
The c;»ptain to whom he was cntrufted, fuffefed him, at this inclement 
feafon ot the year, to lie. on board a cold ihip in tht Thames without ham- 
mock and without fire, the confcquence of wV.ich is, that both his legs 
are mortiiiedj aiid ic is doubted whether he wjU furvive tlicir amputation. 



( 7 ) 

/a)'', that rlie number of injured ghof!s who plant thorns on 
the pillows of their opprefibrs, amounts to threefourths of 
the robufl: young men who come from the country for em- 
ploy, is to talk madly. The bare afiertion of foch non- 
ienfe, unfupported by evidence, indicates a mind either 
defperately weak, or defperately wicked. You affirm that 
the pamphlet proves too much, confequentiy proves no- 
thing ; and, in confirmation of your pontion, you alledge, 
*' That the gofpel was propagated by the bluodof its firil 
votaiies, the protefiant religion by the fame means, Mul% 
we therefore, defpife Chrifdanity, renounce protellantifmr *' 
In order to derive any advantage from this left-handed lo- 
gic, it is neceflary you fliould prove, that the prcpagators 
of th-". gofpel themfelves violated the rights and liberties of 
one fet of men, in order to obtain an article called the gof- 
pel, to fell for their own emolument to another. You ought 
farther to ilate that though this gcfpel was highly gratrfu! 
to the receiver, it was v/hat might be difpenfed with with- 
out injury ; and that, by a continual purchafe of this gofpel, 
you were continually creating frelh crimes, and continually 
rewarding the criminals. Had you ftated the matter thus 
clearly, to the way-faring man, though a fool, your gofpel 
would have appeared fo odious, that if his heart was noC 
harder than adamant, I am perfaaded he would have rs- 
jecled it. 

With refpe(Sl to our confumption of other luxuries pro* 
cured by flavery, v/e may perhaps be reprehenfible ; bu6 
furely our minds have not arrived at that perfection of de- 
pravity, which emboldens men in the com-miiTion of on@ 
crime, from a confcioufnefs that they daily commit half a 
dozen*. By the bye,itis quite a millake, that all the pro- 
duce of the £ail-lndies, and that all the gold and filver wj 

* The auguments of the friends of Slaveiy tcs all founded upon tula 
principle. Thus the pannhments in the. arsny are produced in vindicadort' 
sf vVeft Inuia iioggings, theihejja! cruelty ot matters t» their apprentices^ 
infuppoiL oi' the t rcurcs, aurhjrized by the brutal fiftCiion ot the Wevt 
J^nduncoo^ of law 3 .■ ■ ihe oppreiiion, thar under t lie belt govcrnjnenr,- 
n)ay be occafimally exercii'td upoc the labouiirg poor, Jn defence ct abib-» 
lu:e llavery — and tiie puichaft; oi one coaimcdity procured by L-pprtHion, 
in aoicnce of the pui chafe of another. While the. moraijil_ dcpl.jres the 
'* i rotligacy of the human mind" ihc friends of heedom muft lejoice to 
fe.'. that no b dy 01 pofes their exertions, but thofe who ate fj racicaliy 
vicious as to jeiorc to ©ne crime ior the defence ot a greater. 

A ^ uCe, 



( 8 ) 

ttfe^ is the produ£lion of flaves. And althougli it has oeeh 
fafhionable to abufe the fervants of the Eaft-India Com- 
pany, it will be recorded by hiftory, that there once exifted 
a parliament which exhibited Articles of Impeachment 
:i^ainfl an individual for peculation and cruelty, and yet 
made laws for the continuation of kidnapping, and fet a 
jjrice upon the heads of vidlims then unborn. You ftrive 
hard to confound free, with compulfive labour ; and to 
betray the people of this country into an opinion, that fla- 
very and toil are fynonymous terms. The reafon is obviou?^ 
.the people of England are inured- to labour, and do not con- 
fider it an hardfhip ; but they are accuftomed to receive the 
reward of that labour ; nor can they brook the idea of one 
iRan toiling at the defcretion, and for the advantage of 
another *. When once the people of England have feea 
the nakednefs of ilavery, thofe who now burn incenfe oa 
\tr altars, will fcoii fmg requiems to her foul. 

Britiil) miners in particular, will not thank you for call- 
i|!gthem under^ground flaves ; norfor drawing a comparifoa 
between them and Africans, But, as you fay their fituation 
** feems unenviable even to a Weil-India flave," I caa 

Kmmen^d an experiment which will furnifh you with the 
the moil authentic intelligence on that head. The ladies ia 
the Weil-Indies have a happy dexterity in flipping off their 
ihoes, and beating the heels of them about the heads of 
their negroes. Now, with a very little pradHce upon your 
bed-poll Or dreffing table, you v/ill make a tolerable profi- 
ciency in the art. If ever afterwards you have an oppor- 
tunity of vifi ting Newcaflle or Kingfwood, put your experi- 
Kient in pradice upon the head of the firfl collier you meet, 
and depend upon it, you will foon arrive at an abfblute 
certainty about the comparative happinefs of a free minejr 
and a Have. 

It is worthy of remark, that the mode you have adopted 
of fupporting your caufe, by mutilated portions of fcrip- 
ture, is the very fame artifice which the devil made ufe of 
when he tempted Jefas Chriil to commit fuicide. Strange, 

* She ftill perfifts in the afTc-rtion, that the difference is more in 
w.iids than in 'fa£ls. What petrUfi modtjly for a lady to confront a 
cloud of witnefTes, on a fubjeci which ihe does not pretend to know any 
tbiiig about irom ocular demonilrnuoa ! 

that 



C 9 ) 

tiiat the wlfdom of the ferpent fliould fult your purpc-fe 
better than the innocence of the dove. But, there is no- 
thing new under the fun; the agency of fimilar caufes 
will alvvays be exerted to produce finiilar eifev^s. As long 
as error is fapported, fcripture mull be perverted. As it 
doesnotfjgnify what the conquering Ifraelites were allowed 
to do in the devoted land of Canaan, i (hall leave you, 
*' naturally to fuppofe" vvhatyoa pleafe, and to be as wife 
above what is written as you pleafe, Vv'here our queftion is 
Kot concerned, while I proceed to examine that coanfel 
which you have darkened by words, or rather by ftripping 
it of thofe words with v/hich it was conneded. Our Lord, 
you fay, declared that nothing which went into a man could 
defile a man. And pray who ever faid it coald ? Certainly 
not the perfon to whofe addrefs you have written what yo\i 
call an anfwer. He never faid that faccharine matter of any 
kind, whether eaten with unwaflien hands or not, was ca- 
pable of communicating that defilement v/hich the tradi- 
tion of the elders makingthecommandment of God of none 
efFeft, had conjured up. He never entered upon the quef- 
tion to my knowledge. Therefore how any part of that 
controverfy can apply to his argument, is as much above my 
comprelienfion, as the curious piece of intelligence with 
which you imm.ediately follow it up, is too extenfive an ar- 
ticle for my little faith, viz. ** That every thi/ig which 
v/ent into the body at that time was altogether prepared 
by flaves." As this is not one of the things which you 
'* naturally flip pofe^''^ but which you roundly alTert, ought 
you not to give the world an opportunity of deiiving their 
knowledge from the fame unfuTied current of hiilory by 
which it is tranfmitt;:d to you? Can you inform us who 
were the owners of Martha and her filler iVJary? v^ho v/ere 
the owners of the apoilolic fifhermen r and v,'hy they per- 
mitted them to wander about with fuch an unpopular cha- 
racter as Jefus Chrift, without once feuding the jumper af- 
ter them, or fettmga price upon their heads, as your friends 
in the VVefl indies ofteh do ? Wnen the world is fatislied 
about thefe particulars, perhaps the lociety of antiquarians 
may elecl you a member of their ord.^r, or the Cieolean 
literati give you a name, and a pla.e in the Mythology of 

A 5 tropical 



( ?^ ) 

trcpiCRl divinity*. But ihonid it appear tliat your infor- 
jnation is only the ipfa dixit of a vain woman, ycu have 
Jio reafon to feel hurt, if your word fliould ceafe to be re- 
garded, or be regarded only with fufpicion. 

The next portion of fcripture, which you wrefc to (uit 
your own purpofe, is of the fame nature with tlie firll. 
Our Lord, being at dinner with aPharifee, his holl: '* mar- 
velled" that he did not perform the ctiilomary ablutioir. 
On this occafion he received the following lliarp reproof: 
** Now do ye Pharifees make clean the outfide of the cup 
and tlve platter ; but your inward part is full of ravening 
and wickcdners, Ye fools ! did not he that made that 
which is without, make that which is within alfo ? But 
rather give alms of fuch things as ye have; and, behold, 
all things are clean unto you." Your making the precept 
genera], without prefuppofmg the thing poffeiTed equitably 
obtained, would make fociety unbearable. Men might 
make fortunes by rapine and llaughter, then give alms of 
fach things as they had ; avi/, according to your expojttiony all 
would be clean unto them ; for Jefus faid fo in dirtft and 
general terms. The apoftles, you fay, give f^milar direc- 
tions, " Only to let our moderation be known, and that 
every thing is fandiiied by the word of God and prayer.'* 
Oh 1 the adroitnefs with which yGU manufacture a text J 
Ycu are as expert in fplicing the fagg ends of different epif- 
tles together, as in paring the rough edges from a portion 
©f fcripture, which you tear from its connexion. The apof- 
tle, indeed, recommends moderation in general terms ; ba 
froni the mere circumftance of his fo fpeakingyit is impolli- 
ble he fhould have in view any particular action of life, the 
propriety of which was doubted. With refpecl to the lat- 
ter claufe of your quellion, it relates to thofe abufes which, 
would come to pafs in the latter days, through the influ- 
ence of thofe who would depart from the faith, and forbid 
niariiage, and the ufe of meats, not becaufe they were dif^ 
hocertly obtained, butfimply on their own account. Now,. 
in this point of view, nothing is to be refufed ; but Qvtry 

* But a^ the fecond publication of the lady is no more explicit on thl3 
head than her tiiff, ilie muft be content to fip the ntftar of Weft India' 
Aills, aiid f«.-ft on the granulated arabrofia of the cane, till >ale ihalf 
crown her rtHaichcs into anticiultji wilh more luccefSf 

thing 



( n ) 

thing is fanclilied by the word of God and prayer. " Meat 
commendeth us not to God i" Pray, who ever faid it did ? 
*« Therefore^' — Not quite fo fail with your ** Therefore.''^ 
The wo'rld mull be informed that you are ftriding ovei? 
nearly three chapters, and that your friend, '• Therefcrs,'" 
by whofe aid you fill up the chafm, is a creature of your 
own formacion. The text reads thus : '* Whatever is fold 
in the £nambles, that eat, alking no queftions, for confci-- 
ence^Uke. For the earth is the Lord's, and the fulneis 
thereof. If any of them that believe not, bid you to a- 
feail, and ye be dlfpofed to go, whatfoever is fet before' 
you, eat, afxiing no quellion for confcience-fake. But li 
any man fay unto you, this is offered in facrifice unto idols^ 
eat not, for his fake that (hewed it, and for confcience-^ 
fake : for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulnefs there- 
of." Now, by attending to the fenfe of the author, we 
fee that the difpute in queftion was about meat offered tO' 
idols, and not about the propriety of purchafmg goods 
frauduleritly or violently obtained. Your expoiition afieift^ 
the moral character both of Chrill and his apollles ; as it 
reprefents them appointing receptacles for ftolen goodsy 
and encouraging the difciples to devour any man's pro- 
perty, provided it was expofi^d for fale in the public mar- 
ket, even though they were aware that the perfon witk 
whom they dealt was an habitual thief, and the property 
they purckafed moil commonly Holen ^. You reH fatisfied 
in the idea, that you have difprovedwh-at nobody attempt- 

* This horrid perverfion of holy v/rit is rendered fVillmore Impious by 
the futile actempt which the author makes to extricate herfelf fiom the' 
imputation of \vreft:ng the Icriptures to fuit her own purpofe^ by involv- 
ing in the fame gallt the Son of God and his great Apoftle : The latter,- 
fays /he, quotes the Law of Mofes, v.'hen urging tt^e church to niamt^in- 
its minifters; and the forcner luppreiTid the latter cluufe of the fentence 
^by'whichhe reiift^d the temptation of the devil. The apollle, by way of 
iiiuftiiiting his meaning, quotes a part of the Law of Mofes j from which ' 
in one part of his writings he draws an inferenccj by arguing iromthe lefs 
to the greater, and in another part he leaves 'he inference to the urdsr- 
flanding of his reader. Our Lord alfo quoted only a part of a fentence 
from the Old 'f eiiament 5 but that part contained all the prec-pt that ths 
original roeant to convey. iS' either of thef^ great charadlers io quoted 
the vVriiir.gs of Mofes ab to maiie him fay what was quite foreign to liis 
ireaning, in oroer to derive authority form a pradlic- which hid an evil 
tendciicy : but thus ias has di;ne by them butht 

A 6 cd 



( 12 ) 

td to eftablifli : that " Abftinence from the fugar cane is 
no part of a Chriiliari's duty." 

The author of the addrefs never faid it was. He only 
urges it as a duty, ** To abftain from the ufe of the fugar- 
C3n2 //■// ^ive can have it unconmBed nx)ith Jla^very ^ and impel- 
h.ted nxiith blood.'''* Our abftinence, you fiiy, will do no 
good, . ** The iflands will declare their independence, 
and find a vent for their goods in fome other market." 
But to fhew the world that you have not undertaken to 
give le<5tures upon a commerce of which you were entirely 
ignorant, be fo kind, next time you write, as to inform 
us, how the produce of our iflands is to find a vent in fo- 
reign markets. Already we pay fo large a bounty to force 
it abroad, that were half as much refined fugar exported 
as there is raw imported, nearly the whole of the revenue 
derived from that article would ceafe. And when we con- 
fider, that the bounty is not a new thing, and that even by 
its aiTillance our planters were not able to re-export any 
large quantity of their imported goods, before the dif- 
turbances in the French iflands — when we recoiled that 
America will foon fupply herfelf with fugar from the maple 
tree *, that the Eafl India Company will in a great meafure 
fupply the German market; that Spain, Portugal, Hol- 
land, and Denmark, hav^e fugar colonies of their own ; 
that the fugar of Sierra Leona will be driven abroad by an 
unnatural alien duty; and when we call to mind, that 
England is almoU the only country where rum is ufed, we 
would fain know in what fequeflered corner of the globe 
the Weft Indian is to find a market for the fruits of his 
opprelTion, when the difturbances in the French iflands 
Ihall ceafe, or when Parliament Ihall ceafe to reward his 
iniquity from the public treafury? Is he to barter them 
for cat-fkins at Nootka Sound? or will the Greenlander 
receive them in exchange for blubber? 

«* But fugar (you continue) is ftyled a luxury; and the 
covetous man will readily adopt the language, becaufe, by 
denying his family an expeniive article, he can make a 

* ** They iKuft wait till the tvees grow, fays my opponent." A re- 
iCent .Atneiiean publication informs us, that there are trees enough, in 
Pennfylvania and New York, to fupply the whole United States. In 
Virginia they are ilill ntiore numerous J f^aft* of them have been tapped 
aanually for thcfe twenty years t 

fur« 



fure faving." Such paltry ilander is as innocent as its 
author is contemptible. In the fubfequent fentence, in- 
deed, you acquit us of the crime of avarice, by allow- 
ing, that although we refufe the Well India fugar, we 
purchafe that from the Eall at an exorbitant price. But 
the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. We are ref- 
cued from the whip to be chaflifed with feorpions. We are 
accufed of llraining at gnats, while we fwallow camels. 
What is the import of the accufation, I neither know my- 
felf, nor have I been able to find any one who could in- 
form me. As there can be no crime in receiving the pro- 
duce of free labour*, fuch as Eaft India fugar, you muft 
certainly mean, that the people who rejedl the produce of 
robbery and murder, indulge themfelves in the commi/fion 
of Climes of deeper dye without remorfe. If this is your 
meaning, either point out your man, and point out his 
crimes, or elfe repent you of the iin of bearing falfe vvit- 
pefs againft your neighbour. You inform us, that '' No 
large commercial country, no grand monarchical form of 
government, ever was, or ever will be, fupported without 
luxuries." Whether they were or not, I fhall not con- 
tend, as our queilion is not, whether we ought to live 
luxurioully or frugally; but, whether we be juftified in 
tranfporting men in chains from one country, to be tor- 
tured for the gratification of our appetites in another ? 
Should this queftion be anfvvered in the negative, I afk, 
why you tempt another to do what you would not do your- 
felf? Why you join a crowd, to do what you would not 
do alone? Why you reward iniquity by purchafing an ar- 
ticle procured by the perpetual acceflion of frefh crimes ? 
You anuver, ** God has left us free — debarring ourfelvea 
from the Well-Indian cane is will-worfhip, and, like every 
other inftance of voluntary humility, has a tendency to 
defile the confcience, and darken the underdandins.'* If 
the voluntary humility, the worlhippmg of angels,, and 
the apparent wfiom in the will-worfhip of human tra- 
dition, againft which the ColoHians were warned, have a 
tendency to defile the confcience, and darken the under- 

* The Marquis Becearia obferves, that tyrants never read. It feems 
their advocates are equally indolent. Fo; bad the Female Apologift read 
■ the evidence of Mr. Socham, it is probable ilie never would have aike^, 
*' What are the fiee men who cultivate fugar .in the Eaft indies ?" 

landing. 



( n ) 

fisnding, fiirely the apparent folly and volunt;iry arro- 
gance with which you perve,t the facred wri[ing>, l::ei!ay 
ftrong fj/nip{cms of a coitfcience already de£ied,an under- 
frandirg already darkened. With refpcv^v to divisions 
among Chriilians, they are certainly difagreeahlc, when 
they accnr; but they mull: not he averted, by facrificing 
the repofe of confcience. However, you foretcl, that he 
that eatech not, will judge him that eatet!i^ Sec. It is 
ftrange, that all through the argument you cannot help 
talking about eat in? I Like the mifer's cook of iViolicre, 
the only words in your mouth are, eat, eat, eat, although 
your queftion has no more reference to eating, than it has 
to riding on horftback; but relates fimply to the propriety 
cr impropriety oi recei~oing goods improperly obt ined. If 
the liaple.commodity of the Weil Indies hid bcenapp:ucl, 
inilead of food, what fcripture would you have perverted 
then ? As the cafe is, may we not hope for a text or two 
m vindication of the ufe of rum? Would not our Lord's 
facramental invitation, *' Drink ye all of it/* and the 
apollolic declaration, *' the fpirit giveth life," when pto- 
perly tacked together, after your mode, be admirably ex- 
plicit } 

As to the ruin of trade,, and the train of dreadful con- 
fequences, that is to follow our abilinence, thai is nothing 
to us. li the produce of the labour of {laves is not equi- 
table property, it is our duty to refufe it 3 and our accept* 
ance of it is criminal: or elfe, why are men puniQied for 
receiving llolen goods? Before you called -.uurboik An 
Anfwer to the Addrefs, you ihouid have diiproved th;^ po- 
fition. That, '* Js the planter ha- no right to the per/ n of the 
*' Jlaue, he eon han:e no nght to his labour^ or to the produce 
** of it *." Had you do.ie that, the controverfy v»'ouJd 

have 

* The Female Apolngill: contends that x.\\e. lawful captive ajid the 
ilolen being lndilcriminate!y mixt, and an equji price being fet upon both, 
the merchant makes a legal purchafe j and that the planter has a rij^ht to 
his flavc, corfcquently to his labour. By pieading tor the right or the 
planter to the peiLn of his fl.ive, il\z at /nee admits, what cannjt lc dif- 
proved, viz. that the right to purchaie rlie produce of flavery is derived 
from the prior righr of llaveiy itfcir'. But bel.ire we admit either, may 
we not hope that our wholelale dealeis in tne blood of men, or their fe- 
male amanuenfis, will tell us how a fet of inntA,ent men, women, and 
Cj^iildren can become the lawful captives of a few inrereflea traders ? The 
3u\ture of African wArs and African captures will b:; bef.er underU.iod by 

attend- 



( "J ) 

have been nearly decided *, unlefs we are to do ^'* a real 
*•' evil on the vague fuppofition that good may come." 
As to che ftate of freedom in which you urge God has lefs 
us, if it is the liberty of doing actions which tend to the 
enflaving of others, it looks more like the bondage of ini" 
quityj than the glorious liberty of the children of God. 

Jn your libel on the army you afiirm, that *' a foldies is 
deprived of all the benefit of the laws of his country — 
that he is an abfolute fiave,— -that he is fold by the wretch 
who firll betrays him,— and that if ever he attempts to 
emancipate himfelf (that is, to defert), he is Ihot like a 
mad dog." In ftiort, you conclude yoiw ful-'lime climax by 
f.iying, that forcing an hundred young men into the army, 
** might be as bad as being the remote caafe of enflaving 
an hundred Africans." That the pay of the army is much 
toofmall, and its punilhments much too fevere, cannot be 
denied. Btit that a foldier is depri^ocd cf all the henejit cf the 
iii-jos of his country^ is one of the grojjejt falfehoods that e~uer 
dijgraced the Pre/s. The records of the Old Bailey lamentably 
Jjro-ve, that he is allotved trial by jury. And the records of 
Wefmi'nfler-hall are not de^uoid ofinjiances, tof^e^iv that afol- 
dier may injlituie a ci-oil aSfion, e'ven ag.ainji his officer \\. As 
you tell us, foldiers *^ are abfolute Oaves, and are ofters 
ibid §," can you not inform us where the fales are kept } I 
fhould imagine they muil be by '^oery private contraft, as I 
never heard of a lot of grenadiers being knocked down by 

sttsnciirg to the evidence given on the fuh]:e6l before the H ufe of 
Commons, than by iifiening to the imaginary inieliigtiice ot '* Old 
*vji'ves fabies." 

* The controverfy is Indeed decided with this lady, as It entirely 
hinges on the portion ahove dated, " that the planter has n^ right to 
the perfrio cf his flave." 

Ij. I am told in lepiy to this, that *' to mention ihs hanging of a 7nan- 
among the number ofhis benefits would have been too grofsan iniuit 
on the feelings and iinderfland-ng of my readers.'* I fhould havs 
thought fc) too, had not the various defences of fJavery convinced me 
that its adherents are as infamous for weak litads, as for \vickcd 
hearts. But to prove that an '^^\^'\^{Q\^\tx cannot he hr.ng;d-y:\t\\r'^t 
the decifi-n of a jury, is certainly proving that he is not "deprived 
ef all thebeatStoof the laws of his country."' 
What a candid reaToner this lady is ! 

§ This is affirmed vrith a reiteration, <' Yes, Sir, the blood of 
lokliers art fcj.d," fo? nuorfe than nougku 

ChriHie^ 



( i6 ) 

Chriflie, or any other gentleman of the hammer. With 
relpedl to their being; fnot like n»*'id dogs, for defertion, 
I think you would Hnd it difficult to produce half a dozen 
inllancesin point, for the laft twenty years. As this hor- 
rid pi6lure of the Britifh army is (hewn byway ofextenii- 
s-V"^ I of colonial tyranny, I ihall draw fuch a comparifon 
between them as 1 am able to do from my own knowledge 
and obfervation. The foidier, before he is fuch, hears 
where his regiment lies, and the name of his commander ; 
knows the pay, and thinks he can live upon it. He is 
offtred a bounty, an^ accepts it. He is allowed four days 
forrefle£lion ; if he repents his engagement, he pays twenty 
foi'lings, leturns the money he has received, and is dif- 
charged. But if he likes the fervice., he goes before a 
magiilrate, fwears he was fairly enliiled, that he has recei- 
ved his bounty, that he is a proteflanr, that he has heard 
the articles of war read, and that he will be a good foidier. 
If he is fent to the Weft Indies (where we mufl certainly 
fend him, for the fake of comparifon), he is iirll clothed, 
and provided with bedding; he has full liberty on board 
the fliip v/hich tranfports him ; and when he arrives at his 
dellined iiation, he is lodged in dry and comfortable bar- 
racks ; he is well fed, well clad, and his pay continued^ 
not unfrequently with an addition to it from the ifland. 
He has very little to do, except the morning exercife ; and 
if he is employed as a mechanic, he receives extra wages. 
He cannot be punilhed, but for a crime expreffed in the 
articles of war; and when punilhed, bv the fentence of a 
court-martial, afurgeon attends, who may remit fuch part 
cf thepunifhment as he thinks him unable to bear without 
injury to his conlHtution. He may even bring his general 
to a court-martial, and the evidence ®f his peers is ad- 
mitted. When fuperannuated or difabled, he receives a 
penfion, which, if infuflicient for his fupport, he may refigii 
to the officers of his panlh, and they mull: maintain him. 

Would God this were the cafe with the wretched African. 
A fad reverfe, alas 1 is fai5l. Before he was a flave, he tilled 
-his little patch of ground, planted it v/ith yams, or fowed 
it with rice ; and felt a reward within his fimplebreaft, from 
aconfcLoufnefs that he was providing for his little family, 
who coitributed their tiny pittance to the honey of the 
hive, by fearing the feathered plunderers from 'the ripen- 
ing 



{ »7 ) 

Ing cfop. A few hours daily labour Supplied liis every 
want; the remainder was devoted to hofpitality, and mer- 
riment, and joy. He welcomed his friends with the eafy 
politenefs of nature^ leated them on the turf, and was al- 
toofi inftantly at the fummit of the ftately palm-tree that 
waved its majeilic leaves contiguous to his hut. Thence 
quick defcending, laden with delicious wine, he filled the: 
callaballi of each contented gueft, whole fupple limbs, 
obedient to his lude I anj ay*, he g^n the athletic dance^ 
while the animated chorus of unaffedled voices infpired a 
chearfulnefs of which the formal fons of European feflivity 
tan form no adequate conception. But, ah I fenators have 
no bowels of compaiTion, The happinefs of Africans mult 
be facrificed at the fhrine of their avaricious policy. They 
have legalized murder. They haveafcertained the quan- 
tum of mifery it is expedient to inilid:. They have dared 
to fet a price upon the heads of innocents, who never did 
them an injury, whenever fought a connection with them, 
who never even heard of their country, or their colour. 
Corrupted by their gold, and fandtioned by their autho- 
rity, the fons of violence are on their way. Their eraiffa- 
ries are fitting in the lurking places of the villages, and 
lyir.g in wait fecretly to catch the poor. They catch our 
African. A yoke is put upon his neck, and he is goaded 
to the fhips. The price of his blood being agreed upon, 
he is fhackled to another vidim of European cruelty, and 
thruft under deck. The recolledion of his country and 
his friends drives him to defpair. He cannot think why 
he is torn from them, why the wretches who have ladea 
him with chains, are defirous that he fnould eat ; he can- 
not account for their brutal kJndnefs ; he concludes they 
mean to fatten him, in order to feafl upon him at a conve- 
nient feafon. He refolves to circumvent their defigns ; 
he refufes food : he is whipt to make him eat ; but the in- 
dignant firmnefs of his mind is not to be fubdued by the 
lalh. The/peculum oru ^ is reforted to ; a broken tooth 
gives an opportunity for its introduftion ; his mouth is 

* An inftrument fomewbat like a guittar. Its ufe is prohibited in 
fbme parts of the Weil Indies. Perhaps from an idea that it is fu- 
peifluousin thofe lands of. fuperior felicity. 

§ An inflrument With -which tiicy force open the mouths of fuch 
fiavcs as retufe to cat. 

forced 



( >s ) 

forced open, flee Is crammed down his thrc?at, and he h 
compelled to live. He arrives at the Wefl-lndies, and is 
fold. He nowdepeads upon the will of aa individual for 
his all. He is now in a country where all nature confpires 
againll him, where babes are taught tolifp, " that the woi ft 
white is better than the h-il black. '* He has now no legal 
prote«Slion againllhis mailer. He is even under the abloli'te 
controul of air hireling, who has no intereft in his life. His 
jnafter's name may be branded in his flelh with hot irons, 
and all the while he may be allowed thecharafter of a good 
ilave. But lliould he bend reludantly to his fate, the horrid 
cart-whip would make long furrows in his flefii ; his lace- 
lated body would be vvallied with brine or fea-water ; he 
might even be tortured with melted wax, or boiling fyrup ; 
s.nd any white man might kill him with impunity, as the 
united teftimony of a thoufand of his peers would not be 
confidered as evidence by a Well-India court of /ajuilice. 
When faperannuated, he may be deferted by the wretch 
who has wafted the vigour of his youth ; and when pe-» 
jilhing with hunger, he may be infulted, by being told 
that he is free*. 

After all your boailed chriilianity, you at laft unmafk, 
and tell us. Charity 7^<9i//^ begin at home." 2c«rchanty» 
my good lady, may leglpi at home., and e?2da.t home, andjlaj 
at horns ioT ever* The world will be nolofer. But genuine 
charity prompts its poiTeiTor to embrace ten thoufand worlds, 
then melts him into tears, becaufe he can grafp no more. 

You ferloufly c?-Ution us againll " afFe£ling too much pity 
for flrangers, and being too clamorous againil Weil-India 
avarice, cruelty, and opprefion," merely becaufe we have 
al)ufes at home. That v/e have abufes at home, nobody 
will deny. But, that either the author of the Addrefs, or 
any of his profelytes , * ' applaud or approve the ennaving of 
tens of ihojfarids of our brethren, merely on the doiliine 
of nccclTity," is an explofion of that arrogance which you 
palm upon the world inllead of argument. That we ihall 

* The female aj-.'flo'^ift jjftly ohferves, tint in this *' delcnipt'on of 
the Slave- tn.clc I -gw^ bat the If.ft halt of the truth." As th.e o!^j (51 
cf my writing was H'.t-t') dcfcribe th minutiae ot the trade, I rec!)m- 
mend to the perufal of thofc who wifh for fu 1 inrormatioii, the A^^- 
f}r?.>^l of the evidenced on tlis fii'ijev5l, fold by Pi iiiijis i>i Gcfi.ge 
Yar i, Lnn b-rd flrcer, or even the Ejtcr aits from the Evidence, price ^d. 
publifued by Wayiaad, Midjle-jow. 

q^uietly 



i t9 ") 

quietly go to fleep, till the lordly Creole liimfelf {li all deiga 
to proclaim ** liberty to the captive,'* isoneof thofe plea- 
iing reveries I cannot advife you to indulge. As Britons, 
we are jealous left the chains which are forged for Africans, 
at the extremities of iheempire, fhould berivetted on our 
necks at its centre. As men, who feel the in digiiity offered to 
our fpecies, by the continuance of the Have trade z/i the 'very 
ieetb ofe-videncet we fhould be afhamed to accept a paltry 
junket as a fuccedaneum for that jullice which we demand 
for the whole human race. As Chriftians, we conceive 
there is'fuch a thing as moral principle, and that the Holy 
Scriptures, taken in their obvious, natural fenfe, are to be 
the rule of our condud. We find it an univerfal maxim of 
the New Teftament, that Chriftians ought to have ** no 
fellowfhip with the unfruitful v/orks of darknefs, but 
rather to reprove them." We conceive, that fuch a£lions 
as are contrary to the fpirit of the go^^ol^ are works of 
darknefs. We think that detaining juft men in flavery, 
is contrary to the fpirit of the gofpel*. Therefore, 

we 

* Although there is no dIre<Sl prohibition of this pradllce, yet it is 
included in the moral precept of loving our neighbour as ourfelve?. 
To fay that the Apsftic Paul *' never mentioned the jiurchafng ol 
flaves as a fin," is talking nonfenfe; becaufe he never mentioneei it all. 
The dealing in flaves is mentioned but once in the New Ttflanient ; 
and then it is recorded as the pradbice of a city whofe fjnshave reached 
unto heaven, and over whofe downfall tie Apoftles and Prophets of 
God are called to rejoice. It is readily admitted that the fervants 
to whom Paul wrote, were not in pofTeflion of full perfonal iiberty. 
Nor were the peafants of Fiance before the revolution. But to 
have called them {laves, would never have been admitted, except 
as a figurative expieffion. With refpedl to the hiftory of Oneli- 
nius, my opponent is entirely wrong, Paul never delivered hi in uj? 
to Philemon as his legal property. As a Jew he could not do in, 
without revolting agai'.-ift the legillative authority of the Almighty 
which forbid any fuch tranfa<fl:ion j and, as a Chriftian, he hij 
leceived no difpenfation to violate the laws of hofpita;iry. He 
fenc him, '* not as a fervanr, (not under a guard as a rujaw-sy 
regroe,) but as a voluntary meffenger, bearing the news of h;* 
own converfion, and of the willingnefs of Paul to repiy wiiat l\z 
owed to his mafter, at the fame time, the confidence which Paul 
repofed in Phiitmon was fo great, that he was perfuadcd that he 
V'iU.d net only receive Onefimus with the co'rm )n welcome t.f a 
guell, but even feek aird embrace an opportunity of txtencmg his 
frienifnip to him ilili farther. Had Paul ailed in any other man- 
ner, he wou'd have proved that he was not under ti e iufliit occ 
of that religion, v; hufe avowed objcd waj, to prwawu *■ i\ace 



( " ) 

We ought to reprove it: and this we do not to the utmol!l 
of our power, unlefs we refrain from it ourfeJvcs — lepri- 
mand it in others — avoid any aft which we think may in- 
duce another to purfue it— rejedl the pleafures and profits 
which immediately acrue from it — and ufe Qyay lawful 
means to prevent it. 

Byway of extreme un6lion to your expiring caufe, you 
fuggeft the idea, that our combination looks very much 
like perfecution ; that the planters will think themfelves 
perfecuted. What Guinea pirates or V/eft India planters 
may fay or think^ can be of very little importance to 'no- 




though their Opprefibrs fliould be tormented. When Mr. 
Palmer's plan for conveying the mail was firfl agitated, 
you did not call //^^/ doing evil, that good might come, 
(at lead not from the prefs.) You did not then urge, that 
many children were employed in driving, and many me- 
chanics in conflrudling the v/retched v/heelbarrows, by 
which' letters were then conveyed. You did not evea 
think of the poor innkeepers, coach-m afters, and others, 
who had employed large capitals in travelling accommo- 
dations. Much lefsdid you think of calling that tradefraan 
a perfecutor who refufed to negociate a bill, or to purchafe 
•a caiket of diamonds, which had been ftolen from a public 
conveyance. You never fuggefted the argument, that, 
'^ all the means and manner of carrying on bufmefs be^ 
longed to the man himfelf, and was what his cuflomershad 
nothing to do with." Why, then, is our abftinence from 
the produce of llavery called perfecution .'* Is it lefs a 

crime 

on eaith, and jrood-will to men ." Becaufe experience evinces that 
nnconditimal flavery is tlie parent of anarchy, die nurfe ot" every 
vice, and the bane of every virtue; that it was never fuftered but 
to gratify the viieft yiffiois of the heart; nor has it ever found 
an advocate in any l.vnep man. 

* ThisabP.inence isn )W called, ** tramplingp under foot ard ftarv- 
ing our ccuutrvnien.*' Eik, as Chriftians, it is our duty to attend 
to the te-ars of the oppreiTed without any regard to local fituation ; 
cfpccjally when, '< on the fide of their opprcir»;rs, there is p-o ver.*' 
And if it be admitted that, in rectifying abufes, the welfare of the 
viajorHy ought to be attended to, it fhouid be recoUeifled that the 
number oi Haves is ctufiderally lari^er than that of thtir tyrants, 

a(ct 



X zi ) 

crime to rob a man of liberty than of property ? or, ar« 
the generality of perfons concerned in the flave trade, more 
honourable charatlers than ihe genenlity of highwaymen ? 
I fliali conclude thii; letter by coniirming, as far as the 
influence of my wo d extends, the general tenor of the 
evidence laid before the Houf of Commons on colonial 
llavery. I know one of the perfons, who is mentioned to 
have committed fome a6ls of atrocity ; and, from her ge- 
neral charaftcr, I ftiould cone ive thm true. 1 havemyfelf 
feen a negro whipt, at the mandate of a drunken tyrant, 
till he could not fit down, ignorant of the crime of which 
he was accufed, and wftich, it afterwards tamed out, he 
had not committed. I haveieen a while woiTian fuperin- 
tend the punilhment of one of her own fex-, provided with 
a horfe-whip, for the purpofeof beating the negro whipper 
when he did not Urike hard enough, ( have been waited 
upon, at the houfe of a lady in Antigua, by a female 
flave in a ftate of nature. I have heard an overfeer declare, 
that the btft mode of feafoning- a negro, is to give him 
nine-and-thirty lafhes foon after he comes upon an eflate, 
to make him know v/here he is. I have heard the llime 
wretch boaft, that once he vexed his driver, by .ompeiU 
in^ him to flog the female with whom he cohabited. I 
have feen, in moll of our iflands, crowds of negroes, half 
naked, and apparently half llarved, generally dishgured 
by the cart-whip, and not unfrequently in chains. I 
have feen, with indignation, the little pittance of their 
Sunday's labour wreiled from their hands by the indigent 
whites ; and only fuch a price paid for it as the purchafer 
thought proper to affix. I have known many inlLances of 
their being fent from one ifland to another, merely for the 
convenience of their mailers, I have, on thefe occafions, 
feen the dearell relatives realize the agonies of defpair, 
from a confcioufnefs that they were to meet no more. I 
have feen them lingering in a dungeon for the infolvency 
of their mailers. J have known a miferable, defer ted 

a fet of men with whom every attribute of Deity is at- variance, 
who feem to exift only for the chaftifement of mankind, and who 
muit be very cautions bow they talk of charity and juftice, as 
perhaps it m:iy appear tliat both thefe virtues require a more awful 
iacrifice than what they iinpudently term their property. 

Lazarus 



( 2* ) 

■tja^arus infulted by his owner, only for aiking for a mor« 
fel of bread. 

I do not mean to deny, that T have fcnovvn negroes con- 
tented and happy. When their kind fate places them as 
domellics und6r the roof of a humane mafter, it is often 
the cafe. Thefe folitary inftances are made the moft of 
by the advocates for llavery. But when 1 recoiled, ihe 
feverity I have feen pradtifed by men of the greateil hu- 
manity, in paroxyfms of rage or intoxication - when I rc~ 
ile6l, that, in cafe of infolvency, a flave may lie for weeks 
in a dungeon, and afterwards take his chance for a good 
maiier at a public audlion — I cannot conceive that a few 
exceptions prove any thing againft the general mifbry of 
colonial flavery. For offences not cognizable by indivi- 
duals, the code of laws for the punifiiment of ilaves 
proves more efFe<5lually than a thoufand arguments, that 
the Welt Indians are a fanguinary, brutal, vindictive race. 
Forlbiking a white man, the hand of a flave is cut oiF. 
For infurredion, almoft all our illands abound with in* 
ilances of their being, g2hb:tedy and e^ en roafled aliue ^ . In 
Chrillmas, 1781, at z4.ntigua, two ilaves killed a fcoun* 
drel who had deprived them of their holidays, and other- 
wiTe ill-treated them. The hand of the principal was 
chopped off, before he was put to death. If ever fuch 
favage inhumanity v/as neceflary, it was infiifted with a 
very bad grace, in a country where white men had fre-. 
quently been punifhed with imprifonment and a fmall fine, 
for the murder of negroes. In vain do v/e hope for indi- 
vidual reformation in the Weft Indies. It is not to be ex- 
pected in a country where an exertion of law is an exertion 
of brutality. Nor fhould it excite our furprife, when we 
behold that latent fpark of liberty which had been ftifled, 

* Againft this lift is to be placed as z fet-off, mafters beating 
their apprentices, and men mureiering their wives. I am alio tri- 
umphant. y asked, if \ the good people of England are to oppofe 
apprenticing of youth, or to difannul the order of nature by for- 
bidding marriage? Brilliant as this fiourifh appears, it is unfortu- 
narely not f^rigiiia!. An Ciator, in the Houfe of Commons, flated, 
diat an hab^rduflier once killed her apprentlre, then asked, niuft. we 
therefore abolifh baberdalhcry ? Was tliib IVlfeucr^ objeding to a 
hi\i lot ihii Aboiiition uf pianung f 

but 



( 23 

b«t not extinguiHied, burft into a devouring flame, and 
prompt an injured race to break their chains promifcuoufly 
upon the heads of the innocent and the guilty. If we 
would radically cure thefe e\'i!s, let us teach ggvern- 
nients humanity. Let us recover o-uf dignity, and Afri- 
cans will recover tbeir liberty. Let us loofe hght of the 
intereft of tymnts, and uot continue to be cannibals from 
motives of compaffion. Let our. united efforts befpeak the 
■fincerity of our fouls, and let us hail the foft effulgence' 
of that dawn of liberty, which in defpite of hell, Ihall 
rife to meridian fplendour> and, with undiminiihed 
blase, difpenfe its genial influence from pole to pole, 
tiii time ihall be more 

J am, 

Madam, 

Ycurs, Src. 

RICHARD HILLIER, 

Surry, 
November 14th, 1791* 

%* The flattering reception which tiie firfl edition of 
this letter mec with, has induced its author to make a few 
remarks on the fecond lucubration of the fem.ale apologiH 
for flavery. For though it contains nothing of a reply but 
the name/it might, from the mere circumftance of its being 
called a reply, have induced the friends of Oaveiy to ima- 
gine that their caufe had at lafl: found a viftorious cham- 
pion. Defperate as their fituation is, they will not defpifc 
any auxiliary, however weak. Unfortunately, however, 
flavery is not fo amiable as to call up a fmgie advocate 
who will defend it for its own fake. Nor has iniquity fo 
far conquered fname as to induce a fingle flave-holder to 
pledge his veracity for the probability of half the abfurdi- 
ties which have been urged in defence of colonial flavery. 
Hence we find all the advo^rates of the flave- trade are 
intereilcd men and anonymous writers. Some of the 
latter have been traced to their lurking-holes and dragged 

to 



( u ) 

to public odium. Although it is in my power to point 
out ihe perfon to whom this letter is addreiled, tendern^fs 
for the weakneTs of human nature, and a regard for 
the honor of the fair fex, induce me to avoid the iacrifice 
of any viftim which the caufe of liberty does not require. 
Suffice it to fay, that my opponent conceives herfelf deeply 
intcrej}ed\x\ this matter, as fh6 lives by retailing a commo- 
dity which, in her apprehenfion, the torrent of •* mif- 
guided zeal " m.ay one day fweep av/ay. ,, For the repofe 
of her mind, however, I advife her to read the a6ls of the 
firft A flembiy of Virginia, after the declaration of Ame- 
rican independence. . 



*»i 



F I N £ S. 




