THE 



CONSTITUTION 



OF T K E 



Pennfylvania Society, 



f o a 



PROMOTING 



THE 



Abolition of Slavery, 8cc* 



\ » 



THE 

CONSTITUTI O N 

OF THE 

Pennfylvania Society, 

FOR PROMOTING THE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 

AND THE RELIEF OF 

F RE E NEGROES, 

UNLAWFULLY HELD IN 

BONDAGE. 

BEGUN IN THE YEAR 1774, AND ENLAGRED ON THE 

" c 

TWENTY-THIRD OF APRIL, I787. 
TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 

THE ACTS OF THE 

General Affembly of Pennfylvania, 

FOR THE 

Gradual Abolition of Slavery. 

" All 1 kings nvbatfocver ye would that Men JJjonld do to you, do 
ye even fo to them \ for this is the Law and the Prophets " 
Mat. vii. 12. 

PHILADELPHIA: 

PRINTED BY JOSEPH JAMES, IN CHESNUT-STREIT, 
Irl.DCC.LXXXVII. 






■5Y A9 t tC 



THE 

CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 

Pennfylvania Society 

FOR PROMOTING THE 

ABOLITION of SLAVERY, 

AND THE RELIEF OF 

FREE NEGROES, 

UNLAWFULLY HELD IN 

B O N D A G E ; 

;KLARGED AT PHILADELPHIA, APRIL 23d, 1 787, 



IT having pleafed the Creator of the world, to make of one Introdu&ion. 
flefn, all the children of men — it becomes them to confult 
and promote each other's happinefs, as members of the fame 
family, however diverfined they may be, by colour, fituation, 
religion, or different Hates of fociety. It is more efpecially 
the duty of thofe perfons, who profefs to maintain for them- 
felves the rights of human nature, and who acknowledge the 
obligations of Chriftianity, to ufe fuch means as are in their 
power, to extend the bleiiings of freedom to every part of the 
human race ; and in a more particular manner, to fuch of their 
fellow-creatures, as are entitled to freedom by the laws and 
conftitutions of any of the United States, and who, notwkh- 
fianding, are detained in bondage, by fraud or violence. — > 
From a full conviclion of the truth and obligation of thefe 
principles — from a defire to diffufe them, wherever the miferies 
and vices of flavery exift, and in humble confidence of the 
favour and fupport of the Father of Mankind, the fubfcribers 
have affociated themfelves under the title of the ss Pennfylva- 
nia Society for promoting the abolition of flavery, and the re- 
lief of free Negroes unlawfully held in bondage." 



For effecting thefe purpofeSj they have adopted the fol- 
lowing conftitution : I. The 



{ 6 J 

The Officers of I. The officers of the fociety fhall confifl: of a prefident, 
the fociety. two vice-prefidents, two fecretaries, a treafarer, four coun- 
fellors, an electing committee of twelve, and an acting com- 
mittee of fix members ; all of whom, except the laft named 
committee, mail be chofen annually by ballot, on the firft 
second-day called Monday, in the month called January. 

Duty of the jj # The prefident, and in his abfence one of the vice-pre- 
52«SJ f nd fidents, fhall prefide in all the meetings, and fubfcribe all the 
dents. public acts of the fociety. The prefident, or in his abfence, 

either of the vice-prefidents, fhall moreover have the power of 
calling a fpecial meeting of the fociety whenever he fhall judge 
proper. A fpecial meeting fhall likewife be called at any time/ 
when fix members of the fociety fhall concur in requeuing it. 

Of the fecreta- III. The fecretaries fhall keep fair records of the proceedings 
of the fociety, and fhall correfpond with fuch perfons and focie- 
ties, as may be judged neceffary to promote the views and ob- 
jects of the inftitution. 



Ties. 



rer 



Of the treafu- IV. The treafurer mail keep all the monies and fecurities 
belonging to the fociety, and fhall pay all orders figned by 
the prefident or one of the vice-prefidents — which orders fhall 
be his vouchers for his expenditures. He fnall, before he en- 
ters upon his office, give a bond of not lefs than two hun- 
dred pounds, for the faithful difcharge of the duties of it. 

Of the coim- V. The bufinefs of the counfellors fhall be to explain the 
fellors. j aws au( j conftitutions of the ftates, which relate to the eman- 

cipation of Haves, and to urge their claims to freedom, when 
legal, before fuch perfons or courts as are authorized to decide 
upon thern. 

Of che electing VI. The electing committee mall have the fole power of ad- 
comimttee. mitting new members. Two-thirds of them fhall be a quo- 
rum for this purpofe — and the concurrence of a majority of 
them by ballot, when met, fhall be neceiTary for the admiilion 
of a member. No member fhall be admitted, who has not 
been propofed at a general meeting of the fociety, nor fhall sn 
election for a member take place in lefs than one month after 
the time of his being propofed. Foreigners or perfons who do 
not refide in this flate, may be elected correfponding members 
of the fociety, without being fubjecl to any annual payment, 
and fhall be admitted to the meetings of the fociety during 
their rdidence in the flate. 

After 



( 7 ) 

VII. The a&ing committee mall tranfacl fuch bufinefs Duty of the 
as mall occur in the recefs of the fociety, and report the adin S com - 

fame at each quarterly meeting. They (hall have a right, mittee * 

with the concurrence of the prefident or one of the vice- 
prefidents, to draw upon the treafurer for fuch fums of mo- 
ney as mall be neceffary to carry on the bufinefs of their 
appointment. Four of them mall be a quorum. After their 

firft. election, two of their number (hall be relieved from duty 
at each quarterly meeting, and two members mail be appointd 
to fucceed them. 

VIII. Every member npon his admhTion, {hall fubfcribe the Sum to u» p a ^ 
conftitution of the fociety, and contribute ten millings annually annually. 

in quarterly payments, towards defraying its contingent ex- 
pences. If he neglects to pay the fame for more than two 
years, he mall, upon due notice being given him of his delin- 
quency, ceafe to be a member. 

IX. The fociety (hall meet on the firft second-day called Days of meet- 
Monday, in the months called January, April, July and Ofto- ing. 

ber, at fuch place as mall be agreed to by a majority of the 
fociety. 

X. No perfon holding a Have mall be admitted a member No fiave _ h »j 
of this fociety. er to^bT a° 

member. 

XI. No law or regulation mail contradicl any part of the M r f 1* 
conftitution of the fociety, nor mall any law or alteration in terin^ thecon- 
the conftitution be made, without being propofed at a previ- ftituSon, and 
ous meeting. All questions mall be decided, where there is making lays, 
a divifion, by a majority of votes. In thofe cafes where the and of deciding, 
fociety is equally divided, the prefiding officer fhall have a ** uc loas * 
calling vote. 



officers 



f s ) 

The Prcfent Officers of the Society. 

President : 
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. 

Vice-Presidents: 
JAMES PEMBERTON, 
JONATHAN PENROSE. 

Secretaries : 
BENJAMIN RUSH, 
TENCH COXE. 

Treasurer : 
JAMES STARR. 

Counsellors : 
WILLIAM LEWIS, 
J O H N D. COXE, 
M I E R S FISHER, 
WILLIAM R A W L E. 

Electing Committee : 

Thomas Harrison, Norris Jones, :. 

Nathan Boys, Samuel Richards,. 

James White all, Francis- Bailey, 

James Read, Andrew Carson, 

John Todd, John Warner, 

Thomas Armatt, Jacob Shoemaker, jun. 

Acting Committee : 
Thomas Shields, William Zane, . 

Thomas Parker, John Warner, 

John Oldden, William M'Elhenney. 



An 



(9 ) 

An ACT for the gradual Abolition 
of Slavery. 

Section I. TIT HENwe contemplate our abhorrence of Treamble, 

VV that condition, to which the arms and ty- 
ranny of Great Britain were exerted to reduce lis — when we 
look back on the variety of dangers to which we have been 
expofed, and how miraculoufiy our wants in many inilances 
have been 1 applied, and our deliverances wrought, when even 
hope and human fortitude have become unequal to the con- 
flict — we are unavoidably led to a ferious and grateful fenfe cf 
the manifold blefnngs which we have undefervedly received 
from the hand of that Being, from whom every good and per- 
fect gift cometh. ImpreiTed with thefe ideas, we conceive that 
it is our duty, and we rejoice that it is in our power, to extend 
a portion of that freedom to others, which hath been extended 
to us ; and a releafe from that ftate of thraldom, to which we 
ourfelves were tyrannically doomed, and from which we have 
now every profpect of being delivered. It is not for us to en- 
quire why, in the creation of mankind, the inhabitants cf the 
feveral parts of the earth were diftinguiijied by a difference in 
feature or complexion. It is fufficient to know that all are the 
work of an Almighty Hand, We find in the diftribution of 
the human fpecies, that the moll fertile as well as the molt bar- 
ren parts of the earth are inhabited by men of complexions dif- 
ferent from ours, and from each other ; from whence we may 
reafonably, as well as religioufly, infer, that he who placed 
them in their various fituations, hath extended equally his care 
and protection to all, and that it becometh not us to counteract: 
his mercies. We efteem it a peculiar blemng granted to us, 
that we are enabled this day to add one more ftep to univerfal 
civilization, by removing, as much as poflible, the forrows of 
thofe who have lived in undeferved bondage, and from which, 
by the aiTumed authority of the kings of Great Britain, no ef- 
fectual, legal, relief could be obtained. Weaned by a long 
courfe of experience from thofe narrow prejudices and partiali- 
ties we had imbibed, we find our hearts enlarged with kindnefs 
and benevolence towards men of all conditions and nations ; 
and we conceive ourfelves at this particular period extraordina- 
rily called upon, by the bleffings which we have received, to 
manifefr the fmcerity of our profeilion, and to give a fubflantial 
proof of our gratitude. 

B Setoff 



( io ) 

Sea** II. AND WHEREAS the condition of thofe 
perfons who have heretofore been denominated Negro and Mu- 
latto fiaves, has been attended with circumftances which not 
only deprived them of the common bleflings that they were 
by nature entitled to, but has cart them into the deeper! afflic- 
tions by an unnatural reparation and fale of hufband and wife 
from each other and from their children — an injury, the great- 
nefs of which can only "be conceived by fuppoiing that we were 
in the fame unhappy cafe. In juftice, therefore, to perfons fo 
unhappily circumfcanced, and who, having no profpedt before 
them whereon they may reft their forrows and their hopes, have 
no reafonable inducement to render their fervice to fociety, 
which otherwife they might ; and aifo in grateful commemoration 
of our own happy deliverance from that Hate of unconditional 
fubmifiion to which we were doomed by the tyranny of Britain. 

No child born Seaion III. Be it enafted, and it is hereby enabled, by the 
hereafter to be reprefentatiyes of the freemen of the commonwealth of Penn- - 
a Have, fylvania, in general aifembly met, and by the authority of the 

fame, That all perfons, as well Negroes and Mulattoes and 
others, who (hall be born within this ftate from and after the 
pairing of this act, fhall net be deemed and considered as fer- 
vants for life, or Haves ; and that all fervitude for life, or fla- 
very of children, in confequence of the ilavery of their mothers, 
in the cafe of all children born within this fiate, from and after 
the palling of this ad as aforefaid, mall be, and hereby is ut- 
terly taken away, extinguiihed and forever aboliihed. 

Ne^ro and Seffion IV. Provided always, and be it further enacled, by 

Mulatto chil- the authority aforefaid, That every Negro and Mulatto child 
dren to be fer- born within this fcate after the pairing of this act as aforefaid 
vants till 28 ^ w | 10 wou i^ ^ n ca f e t^jis aft had not been made, have been born 
years or age. ^ fe tymt for yQ3Vs ^ C( ij fe> or a f] ave ) foall be deemed to be, 
and mail be, by virtue of this aft, the fervant of fuch perfon 
or his or her affigns, who would, in fuch cafe, have been en- 
titled to the fervice of fuch child, until fuch child fhall attain 
unto the age of twenty-eight years, in the manner and on the 
conditions whereon fervants bound by indenture for four years 
a r e or may be retained and holden ; and fhall be liable to 
like correction and punifhment, and entitled to like relief in 
. cafe he or (he be evilly treated by his or her mailer or miitrefs, 
and to like freedom dues and other privileges as fervants bound 
by indenture for four years are or may be entitled, unlefs the 
perfon to whom the fervice of any fuch child fhall belong fhall 
abandon his or her claim to the fame ; in which cafe the over- 
feers of the poor of the city, townihip or diftrift refpeftively, 

where 



( n ) 

where fucli child fhall be fo abandoned, fhall by Indenture bind 
out every child, fo abandoned, as an apprentice for a time not 
exceeding- the age herein before limited for the fervice of fuch 
children. 

Sekion V. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- Allflaves to be 
faid, That every perfon, who is or fhali be the owner of any j£g lft ered ^he- 
Negro or Mulatto Have or fervant for life, or till the age of thir- November" 
tv-one years, now within this ftate, or his lawful attorney, nexc . 
fhall on or before the faid firft day of November next, deliver 
or caufe to be delivered in writing to the clerk of the peace of 
the county, or ttethe clerk of the court of record of the city of 
Philadelphia, in which he or ihe fnall refpecHvely inhabit, the 
name, and furname, and occupation or profeffion of fuch own- 
er, and the name of the county and townfhip, diftricl: or ward 
wherein he or Ihe refideth ; and alfo the name and names of 
any fuch Have and Haves, and fervant and fervants for life or 
till the age of thirty-one years, together with their ages and 
fexes feverally and reflectively (tt forth and annexed, by fuch 
perfon owned or ftatedly employed and their being within this 
ftate, in order to afcertain and diftinguift the Haves and fer- 
vants for life and till the age of thirty -one years, within this 
ftate, who fhall be fuch, on the faid firft day of November next, 
from all other perfons ; which particulars fhall by faid clerk of 
the feffions and clerk of the faid court be entered in books to 
be provided for that purpofe by the faid clerks ; and that no 
Negro or Mulatto, now within this ftate, , fhall from and after 
the faid firft day of November, be deemed a flave or fervant 
for life, or till the age of thirty-one years, unlefs his or her 
name fhall be entered as aforefaid on fuch record, except fuch 
Negro and Mulatto Haves and fervants as are herein after ex- 
cepted ; the fame clerk to be entitled to a fee of two dollars 
for each Have or fervant fo entered as aforefaid from the trea- 
furer of the county, to be allowed to him in his accounts. 

Seffion VI. Provided always, That any perfon in whom Owners of 

the ownerfhip or right to the fervice of any Negro or Mulatto Haves, though 

fhall be veiled at the paffingr of this aft, other than fuch as are "°; re &X?& 
i • i r i i • 6 i i • ^ j • -a „ to be liable for 

herein berore excepted, his or her heirs, executors, adminiltrators t j ie - r { upporc 

and affigns, and all and every of them feverally fhall be liable unlefs, &c. 
to the overfeers of the poor of the city, townfhip or diftricl: to 
which any fuch Negro or Mulatto fhall become chargeable, for 
fuch neceffary expence, with cofls of fuit thereon- as fuch over- 
feers may be put to, through the neglect of the owner, mafter 
or miftrefs of fuch Negro or Mulatto ; notwitbftanding the 
name and other defcrptions of fuch Negro or Mulatto fhall not 

be 



\ T7T ) 

>e entered and recorded as aforefaid ; unlefs his or her maftef 
or owner fhall before fuch Have ©r fervant attain his or her twen- 
ty-eighth year, execute and record in the proper county; a deed 
or inftrument, fecuring to fuch iiave or fervant, his or her free- 
dom. 

Negroes, &c. SeBion VII. And be it further enacled by the authority 
to be tried like aforefaid, That the offences,and crimes of Negroes and Mulat- 
other mhabi- toeSj as we j| f] aves an d fervants as freemen, ftiall be enquired 
of, adjudged, corrected and punifhed in like manner as the of- 
fences and crimes of the other inhabitants of this ftate are and 
fhall be enquired of, adjudged, corrected and punifhed, and 
not otherwife ; except that a Have fnall not be*admitted to bear 
witnefs againit a freeman. 

Jury to value SeBion VIII. And be it further enacled by the authority 
in e»fe of fen-_ a f ore faid, That in all cafes, wherein fentence of death fhall be 
^tenceor death, pronounced againit a Have, the jury before whom he or me 
fnall be tried, mail appraife and declare the value of fuch Have ; 
and in cafe fuch fentence be executed, the court fhall make an 
order on the ftate treafurer, payable to the owner for the fame 
and for the colts of profecution ; but in cafe of remiifion or 

mitigation, for the coils only, 
v 

Regard for SeBion IX. And be it further ena&ed by the authority 

taking up run* aforefaid, That the reward for taking up runaway and abfcond- 
a/ways, fame ing Negro and Mulatto Haves and fervants, and the penalties 
astor^hite for enticing away, dealing with, or harbouring, concealing or 
employing Negro and Mulatto flaves and fervants, fhall be the 
fame, and fhall be recovered in like manner as in cafe of fer- 
vants bound for four years. 

None to be SeBion X. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 

deemed llaves, fcih, That no man or woman of any nation or colour, except 
**![ ~? re ' the Negroes or Mulattoes who mall be regiftered as aforefaid, 
(hall at any time hereafter be deemed, adjudged or hclden 
within the territories of this commonwealth as flaves or fer- 
vants for life, but as free-men and free- women ; except the 
domeftic flaves attending upon delegates in congrefs from the 
other American ftates, foreign miniiters and confuls, and per- 
fons pafting through or fojourning in this ftate and not becom- 
ing refident therein, and fearnen employed in fhips not belong- 
ing to any inhabitant of this ftate, nor employed in any fhip 
owned by any fuch inhabitant. Provided fuch domeiHc flaves 
be not aliened or fold to any inhabitant, nor (except in the cafe 
of members of congrefs, foreign minifters and confuls) retain* 
id in this ftate longer than iix months* StiSi9ti 



SeSion XL Provided always, and be it further enacted by Except rtma? 
th- authority aforefaid, That this act or any thing in it contain- "ways from <** 
ed, fhall not give i-ny relief or '/.eUc.r to any abfconc^ing or ther ftates. 
run-away Negro or Mulatto flaye c: fervant, who .as aliented 
himfelf, or fhall abfent hjmfelf from his or her v/ner, mafter 
or miitrefs refiding in any other ftate or country but Aich ow- 
ner, mailer or miftrefs fhall have like right an,i aid to demand, 
claim and take away his fla^e or fervant, as he might have had 
in cafe this act had not been made : And that ail Negro and Slaves carried 
Mulatto flaves now owned and heretofore refident in this ftate, r. way \ ^ c " 
who have abfented themfeives, or been clandefb'neiy carried jj° t m z ^ y ^ 
away, or who may be ernployed abroad as feai 1 an< have not brought back 
returned or been brought oaek to their owners, mailers or mif- and registered* 
treffes, before the paffing of this aft, may within five years be 
regiftered as effectually as is ordered by this acl neerning thofe 
who are now within the ftate, en producing fuch (lave before 
any two indices of the peace, and fatisfying the faid jufttces by 
due proof of the former reftdence, abfcondihg, taking away, or 
abfenee of fuch flaves as aforefaid ; whe n (hall uireft: 

and order the faid flave to be entered on the record as aforefaid. 



•eamble* 



Seaion XII. AND WHEREAS attempts may be made P. 
to evade this acl, by introducing into this ftate Negroes and Mu- 
lattoes bound by covenant, to ferve for long and unreafcnable 
terms of years, if the fame be not prevented : 



Se&ion XIII. Be it therefore enacted by the authority afore- No Negroes o* 




prentice were, at the commencement of fuch fervitude or ap- ger than fevea 
prenticeihip, under the age of twenty-one years ; in which years, 
cafe fuch Negro or Mulatto may be holden as a fervant or ap- 
prentice reflectively, according to the covenant, as the cafe 
fhall be, until he or (he fhall attain the age of twenty-eight 
years, but no longer. 

Se&ton XIV. And be it further enacted by the authority Repeal cf for- 
aforefaid, That an aft of affembly of the province of Pennfyl- raer ai3:s * 
vania, paffed in the year one thoufand feven hundred and five, 
entitled, <( An aft for the trial of Negroes f and another act 
of affembly of the faid province, paffed in the year one thou- 
find feven hundred and twenty-five, entitled, " An aft for the 
better regulating of Negroes in this province;" and another 
aft of affembly of the faid province, palled in the year one thou- 
fand kvtn hundred and fixty-one, entitled, " An aft for lay. 



( *4 ) 



lag a duty on Negro and Mulatto Haves imported into this 
province ;" and alfo another act of aflembly of the faid pro- 
vince, pafTed in the year one thoufand feven hundred and feven- 
ty-three, entitled, f < An act for making perpetual an act for 
laying a duty on Negro and Mulatto flaves imported into this 
province ; and for laying an additional duty on faid flaves/* 
fhall be, and are hereby repealed, annulled and made void. 



JOHN BAYARD, Speaker. 



"Enabled into a Lanjo at Philadelphia, on 1 
Wednefday, the fiyft Day of March, > 
Anna Domini, 1780. 



THOMAS PAINE, 

Clerk of the Generrl Ajjembly* 



An A C T to give Relief to certain 
Perfons taking Refuge in this State, 
with RefpeH to their Slaves. 

Preamble. SeSion I. t If H E R E A S many virtuous citizens of 

V V America, and inhabitants of itates that have 

been invaded, are obliged by the power of the enemy, to take 

refuge in this ft ate. AND W H E R E A S it is juft and ne- 

ceifary that the property of fuch perfons mould be protected. 

Perfons taking Seclion II. Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby enacted, 

refuge, may by the reprefentatives of the freemen of the commonwealth of 

Save 1 " life r Pennfylvania, in general aHembly met, and by the authority 

' of the fame, That all and every perfon and perfons, under the 

above defcription, now refiding in this itate, or who hereafter 

may be in like circumftances, mall retain, polfefs .and hold 

their flaves ; any thing in the " Act for the gradual abolition 

of flavery,'" > parted the firft day of March, one thoufand feven 

hundred and eighty, to the contrary notwithftanding. 

SeSiion III. Provided always, That the owner or owners 
I™ Ve-iiW 7 of fuch flaves > his or theIr law *" ul attorney, .fhall, ' m fix months 
within fix fr° m tne paiTmg of this act, or in fix months after their arrival 
months. in this ftate, as the cafe may be, regifter faid flaves in manner 

and 



( '5 ) 

and form dire&ed in the fifth feclion of the a£l above mention- And not {old 

ed, for the gradual abolition of flavtry. And be it further or retained in 

provided, That fuch Haves fhall not be aliened or fold to any che ftate lon ~ 

inhabitant, nor retained in this ftate as liases longer than fix gcr u n ^ 

iri i r r i r •!•-, »^. months arter 

months alter tue concmiion ol the prelent war with Great Bn- thevar. 

tain. 

Setlion IV. And be it alfo provided and declared, That Provifo* 
nothing herein contained, fhall be deemed, conftrued, or taken 
to enflave any perfon or perfons, who have been emancipated 
or freed under or by virtue of the a& aforefaid. 

Signed by order of the Houfe, 

Frederick A. iviuhlenberg, Speaker, 



Enacled into a Law at Philadelphia 
on Monday, thefirflDayofOclober, 
Anno Domini, 1781. 



■\ 



Samuel Sterrett, 

Clerk of the General Ajemblj. 



=3K3S£SSS^23Sa 



