rj 



IN THE COURT 



THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS 



JACK, a Negro Man, Plaintiff in Error, 

AGAINST 

MARY MARTIN, Defendant in Error. 



CASE ON THE PART OF THE PLAINTIFF IN EBBOB. 



j&eto*g0E&: 



PRINTED BY JAMES VAN N OR E> E N', 
No. 49 William-ttreet. 

1834. 



\f\&* * f •& 



%S$ rt'0,-7 



IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JUDICATURE OF THE 
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NE W-YORK, 

PLEAS before the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judica- 
ture of the People of the State of New-York, held at the 
city hall of the city of New-York, the first Monday of 
May, of May term, in the year of our Lord one thou- 
sand eight hundred and thirty-lour. Witness, John 
Savage, Esquire, Chief Justice, Hallett, Paige, Hub- 
bard, and Oliver, Clerks. 

State of JSew- York, } 

City and County of New- York, ( & ' 

The people of the state of New-York have sent to the jus- 
tices of the Superior Court of the city of New-York their writ 
close in these words, to wit : — The people of the State of New- 
York to the justices of the Superior Court of the city of New- 
York, greeting: because in the record and proceedings, and 
also in the giving of judgment, in a certain cause, which was in 
our said Court before you, between Jack, a negro man, plain- 
tiff, and Mary Martin, defendant, in a plea of homine replegi- 
ando, as is said, manifest error hath intervened, to the great 
damage of the said Jack, as he complains; and we being will- 
ing that the error, if any, should be corrected, and full and 
speedy justice done to the parties aforesaid in this behalf, do 
command you, that if judgment be thereupon given, then with- 
out delay you distinctly and openly send, under your seal, the 
record and proceedings aforesaid, with all things touching the 
same, to our justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature, at 
the city hall of the city of New-York, on the first Monday of 
May next, together with this writ; that, the record and pro- 
ceedings aforesaid being inspected by our said justices, we may 
further cause to be done thereupon for correcting that error, 

1 



what of right ought to be done. Witness, John Savage, 
Esquire, our Chief Justice, at the Capitol in the city of Albany, 
the first Monday of January, one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty-four. R. Sedgwick, Attorney, 

Paige &, Hallett, Clerks. 
To which said writ the justices of the Superior Court of the city 
of New-York aforesaid have, under their seal, distinctly and 
openly sent to the justices of the Supreme Court aforesaid their 
answer, in the words following, to wit : — The answer of the 
justices of the Superior Court of the city of New- York, in the 
within writ mentioned, the record and proceedings Whereof 
mention is within made, with all things touching the same, 
are hereby respectively certified to the justices of the Supreme 
Court of Judicature within mentioned, in a certain schedule to 
this writ annexed, as within it is commanded. Witness, Samuel 
Jones, Esquire, Chief Justice of the Superior Court of the city 
of New-York, at the city hall of the~said city, the first Monday 
of May, in the year 1834. 

(l. s.) C. A. Clinton, Clerk. 

And which said schedule to the said writ annexed, is in the 
words and figures following, to wit : — 

IN THE SUPERIOR COURT 
OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK. 

PLEAS in the Superior Court of the city of New-York, held 
at the city hall of the city of New- York, in and for the 
city and county of New- York, before the justices of the 
same court, on the first Monday of September, of Sep- 
tember term, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and thirty-three. Witness, Samuel Jones, 
Esquire, Chief Justice. Charles A. Clinton, Clerk. 
The people of the state of New-York have sent their writ 
close to the sheriff of the city and county of New- York, in the 
words and figures following, that is to say : — The people of the 
state of New- York to the sheriff of the city and county of 
New- York, greeting : Whereas it is sufficiently testified to us, 
that Jack, a negro man, is in the custody of Mary Martin, or in 
your custody ; and that she, Mary Martin, claims the said Jack 
as a slave, or a person who owes her service, and detains him on 



that account ; and we being unwilling that the said Jack, if he 
be a freeman, should be destitute of the common law by such 
taking and claim, command you, that if the said Jack find you 
sufficient caution, &c. to be before our judges of the Superior 
Court of the city of New-York, on the first Monday of Septem- 
ber next, at the city hall of the city of New-York, and to an- 
swer the said Mary Martin, if, &c, then cause the said Jack, in 
the mean time, to be replevied ; and if the said Jack make you 
secure touching his claim, then put by gages, &c. the afore- 
said Mary Martin that she be before our said judges on the 
aforesaid day, to answer the aforesaid Jack of the taking and 
claim aforesaid, and have then there the names of the pledges, 
and this writ. Witness, Samuel Jones, Chief Justice, at the 
city hall of the city of New-York, the first Monday of August, 
A. D. 1833. R. Sedgwick, Att'y. 

C. A, Clinton, Clerk. 

And now at this day, that is to say, on the first Monday of 
September, of September term, in the year of our Lord one 
thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, before the justices of 
the said the Superior Court of the city of New-York, held at 
the city hall of the city of New- York, the said sheriff of the 
city and county of New-York returns the said writ, with his re- 
turn thereto thereon endorsed, that when the said writ came to 
his hands, the therein named Jack was in his custody, under and 
by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus, issued by the honourable 
Richard Riker, recorder of the city of New-York ; and that in 
consequence thereof, and because he was claimed by Mary 
Martin as her slave, he had not set at liberty the said Jack, but 
he still remained in his custody. 

And hereupon the said Jack, by Robert Sedgwick his at- 
torney, complains that the said Mary Martin heretofore, to wit, 
the twentieth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thou- 
sand eight hundred and thirty-three, at the city and irr the 
county of New-York, took the said Jack, and taken, still 
holdeth. 

And also, for that heretofore, to wit, on the twenty-third day 
of said August, and at the place aforesaid, the said Mary Mar- 
tin falsely and maliciously took and held the said Jack for a long 



space of time, and h.im still holds, upon a false pretence and al- 
legation that the said Jack is the slave of the said Mary, and 
that she, the said Mary, has a just right to transport him, the 
said Jack, without the jurisdiction of the state of New- York, to 
wit, to New-Orleans: whereas, on the contrary, the said Jack 
is a freeman, to wit, at the city and county aforesaid. 

And also, for that heretofore, to wit, on the twenty-third day 
of said August, and at the place last aforesaid, the said Mary 
Martin took and held the said Jack for a long space of time, and 
still holds, upon a false pretence and allegation that the said 
Jack is the slave of the said Mary, and that she, the said Mary, 
has a right to transport him, the said Jack, without the jurisdic- 
tion of the state of New- York, to wit, to New-Orleans, whereas, 
on the contrary, the said Jack is a freeman, to wit, at the city 
and county aforesaid. 

Wherefore the said Jack says that he is injured, and has sus- 
tained damage to the value of two thousand dollars, and there- 
of he brings suit, &c. 

And now at this day, that is to say, on the first Monday of 
October, of October term, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and thirty-three, to which day the said Mary 
Martin had leave to the declaration aforesaid to imparle and 
then to answer the same before the said justices of the said the 
Superior Court of the city of New-York, held at the city hall 
of the city of New-York, and for the city and county of New- 
York, comes the said Jack, a negro man, by his attorney afore 
said. 

And the said Mary Martin, by Jesse M. Benedict her attor- 
ney, comes and well avows the taking of and detaining of the 
said Jack, a negro man, at the said place, at which, &c, and 
justly, &c, because she, the said Mary Martin, says, that here- 
tofore, to wit, on the twenty-seventh day of February, in the 
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty, at 
New-Orleans, in the state of Louisiana, the said Jack, a negro 
man, was and ever since hath been, and still is the slave of her, 
the said Mary Martin, and as such slave bound to labour for, 
and owing service to her, the said Mary Martin, under the laws 
of the said state of Louisiana, for and during the life of him, 
the said Jack, a negro man, to wit, at the city and county of 



New- York aforesaid. And the said Mary Martin further in fact 
says, that she, the said Mary Martin, was, during all the time 
aforesaid, and still is an inhabitant of New-Orleans aforesaid i 
to wit, at the city and county of New-York aforesaid. And 
the said Mary Martin in fact says, that before the said time in 
the said declaration mentioned, and whilst he, the said Jack, was 
so the slave of her, the said Mary Martin, to wit, on the fifth 
day of April, in the year aforesaid, he, the said Jack, at New- 
Orleans aforesaid, escaped from his said service at said New- 
Orleans, and fled into the state of New- York, to wit, at and 
into the said city and county of New-York ; and there, to 
wit, at the said city and county of New-York, remained, against 
the will of the said Mary Martin, a fugitive from his service and 
labour aforesaid, until the arrest and seizure of him, the said 
Jack, hereinafter mentioned. And the said Mary Martin in 
fact further says, that after the said Jack had so escaped into 
the state of New-York, and before the said time in the said 
declaration mentioned, to wit, on the seventh day of August, in 
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty- 
three, at the city and county of New-York aforesaid, she, the 
said Mary Martin, presented to Richard Riker, Esquire, who 
then and there was recorder of the city of New-York, an affi- 
davit setting forth minutely and particularly the claim of her, the 
said Mary Martin, to the services of the said Jack aforesaid, 
and setting forth that he, the said Jack, had escaped and fled 
into the state of New-York, at the time in that behalf aforesaid, 
and setting forth that he, the said Jack, at the time of so pre- 
senting such affidavit, was at Bunker's Mansion House, in 
Broadway, in said city of New-York. And the said Mary 
Martin further in fact says, that thereupon the said Richard 
Riker, Esquire, as such recorder, did then and there grant unto 
the said Mary Martin a writ of the people of the state of 
New- York, commonly called a writ of habeas corpus, issuing 
out of and under the seal of the Supreme Court of the state of 
New-York, tested in the name of John Savage, Chief Justice of 
said Supreme Court, at the academy in the town of Utica, the 
thirteenth day of July, in the year last aforesaid, and directed 
to the sheriff of the city and county of New- York ; by which 
writ the people of the state of New-York commanded the said 
sheriff to take the said Jack, by the name and description of 



Jack, a fugitive and runaway slave from New-Orleans, in the 
state of Louisiana, and being the property, as it is said, of Mary 
Martin, or by whatsoever name he might be called, and charged 
and to have him before the said Richard Riker, Esquire, re- 
corder of the city and county of New-York, at his office, in 
the city hall, in the city of New-York, on the eighth day of 
August, in the year last aforesaid, at ten o'clock in the forenoon 
of that day, and to do and receive what should then and there 
be considered concerning the said Jack, a fugitive and runaway 
slave as aforesaid, to answer such claim of the said Mary Mar- 
tin, and further commanded the said sheriff to have then and 
there that writ. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, 
that the said writ was afterwards, to wit, on the said seventh 
day of August, delivered to Jacob Westervelt, Esquire, who 
then and there was, and at and after the return of the same 
writ continued to be sheriff of the said city and county of 
New-York,' to be by him, as such sheriff, executed in due form 
of law. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, that 
the said sheriff, after the said writ was so delivered to him as 
aforesaid, and before the return thereof, to wit, on the said 
seventh day of August, at the city and county of New-York, 
did, by virtue of such writ, arrest and take the body of the 
said Jack, and did afterwards, to wit, at the day, hour and place 
so for that purpose specified in said writ, bring him before the 
said Richard Riker, then yet being such recorder as aforesaid. 
And the said Mary Martir; further in fact says, that at the day t 
hour and place so specified in said writ, the said recorder did 
proceed to have the proofs and allegations of the said Mary 
Martin and the said Jack, touching the matters of such writ ; 
and such proceedings were thereupon had in that behalf, before 
said recorder, that afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-third day 
of August, in the year last aforesaid, at the city of New-York 
aforesaid, it did appear to the said Richard Riker, then yet being 
such recorder as aforesaid, that the said Mary Martin was enti- 
tled to the services of the said Jack ; and thereupon he, the said 
Richard Riker, as such recorder, did then and there grant to 
the said Mary Martin a certificate, stating, among other things, 
that it satisfactorily appeared, that the said Jack owes service 
to the said Mary Martin, by the name and description of Mary 



Martin, a resident of the city of New-Orleans, state of Louis- 
iana, but then in the city and county of New-York; and allow- 
ing the said Mary Martin, or any agent by her to be appointed, 
to take the said Jack without any unnecessary delay, through 
and out of the state of New-York, on the direct route to New- 
Orleans, in the state of Louisiana ; in which said certificate it 
was further stated, that the said Jack was about thirty-three 
years of age, about five feet four inches high, rather a light co- 
loured negro, and of a thick make, having a scar over his left 
eye. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, that the 
said Jack was then and there, by the said recorder, delivered 
into the custody of the said sheriff of the city and county of 
New- York, who was then and there appointed by the said Mary 
Martin to receive said Jack, for the purpose of his removal as 
aforesaid, to New-Orleans aforesaid ; wherefore the said Mary 
Martin, at the said time, when, &c., took the said Jack, a negro 
man, and him taken, detained, as it was lawful for her to do, 
for the causes aforesaid, and this she, the said Mary Martin, is 
ready to verify ; wherefore she prays judgment, and a return of 
the said Jack, a negro man, as her slave, to be adjudged to her, 
&c. And the said Mary Martin, by the leave of the court for 
this purpose first had and obtained, according to the form of 
the statute in such case made and provided, for a further avowry 
in this behalf, well avows the taking and detaining of the said 
Jack, a negro man, at the said time of the taking and detaining 
of the said Jack, a negro man, at the said place, at which, &c, 
and justly, &c, because the said Mary Martin says, that the said 
Jack, a negro man, at the said time of the taking and detaining of 
him as aforesaid, was and still is the slave of her, the said Mary 
Martin, to wit, at the city and county of New-York afore- 
said ; wherefore she, the said Mary Martin, him took, and taken, 
detained, as it was lawful for her to do, and this she is ready to 
verify; wherefore she, the said Mary Martin, prays judgment, 
and a return of the said Jack, a negro man, to be adjudged to 
her, &c. And the said Mary Martin, for a further avowry in 
this behalf, by leave of the court here for this purpose first had 
and obtained, and according to the form of the statute in such 
case made and provided, well avows the taking and detaining 
the said Jack, a negro man, at the said place, at which, &c, 



8 
i 
and justly, &c, because she, the said Maty Martin, says, that 
heretofore, to wit, on the twenty-seventh day of February, in the 
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty, at New- 
Orleans, in the state of Louisiana, the said Jack, a negro man, 
was and ever since hath been, and still is the slave of her, the 
said Mary Martin, and as such slave bound to labour for, and 
owing service to her, the said Mary Martin, under the laws of 
the said state of Louisiana, for and during the life of him, the 
said Jack, a negro man, to wit, at the city and county of New- 
York aforesaid. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, 
that she, the said Mary Martin, on the day and year afore- 
said, and from thence until and at and after the time of the 
escape hereinafter mentioned, was an inhabitant of New-Orleans 
aforesaid, to wit, at the city and county of New-York aforesaid. 
And the said Mary Martin in fact says, that before the said 
time in the said declaration mentioned, and whilst he, the said 
Jack, was so the slave of her, the said Mary Martin, to wit, on 
the fifth day of April, in the year aforesaid, he, the said Jack, at 
New-Orleans aforesaid, escaped from his said service at New- 
Orleans and fled into the state of New- York, to wit, at and into 
the said city and county of New- York, remained against the will 
of the said Mary Martin a fugitive from his service and labour 
aforesaid, until the arrest and seizure of him, the said Jack, 
hereinafter mentioned. And the said Mary Martin further in 
fact says, that after the said Jack had so escaped into the state 
of New-York, and before the time in the said declaration men 
tioned, to wit, on the seventh day of August, in the year of our 
Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, at the city 
and county of New- York aforesaid, she, the said Mary Martin, 
presented to Richard Riker, Esquire, who then and there was 
recorder of the city of New- York, an affidavit setting forth mi- 
nutely and particularly the claim of her, the said Mary Martin, to 
the services of the said Jack as aforesaid, and setting forth that 
he, the said Jack, had escaped and fled into the state of 
of New-York, at the time in that behalf aforesaid, and setting 
forth that he, the said Jack, at the time of so presenting such 
affidavit, was at Bunker's Mansion House in Broadway, in 
the city of New- York. And the said Mary Martin further in 
fact says, that thereupon the said Richard Riker, Esquire, as 



such recorder, did then and there grant unto the said Mary 
Martin a writ of the people of the state of New- York, com- 
monly called a writ of habeas corpus, issuing out of and under 
the seal of the Supreme Court of the state of New-York, tested 
in the name of John Savage, Chief Justice of said Supreme 
Court, at the academy, in the town of Utica, the thirteenth 
day of July in the year last aforesaid, and directed to the she- 
riff of the city and county of New-York, by which writ the peo- 
ple of the state of New-York commanded the said sheriff to 
take the said Jack, by the name and description of Jack, a 
fugitive and runaway slave from New-Orleans, in the state of 
Louisiana, and being the property as it is said of Mary Martin, 
or by whatsoever name he might be called, and charged and to 
have him before the said Richard Riker, Esquire, recorder of 
the city and county of New-York, at his office in the city hall 
in the city of New-York, on the eighth day of August in the 
year last aforesaid, at ten o'clock in the forenoon of that day, 
and to do and receive what should then and there be consi- 
dered concerning the said Jack, a fugitive and runaway slave 
as aforesaid, to answer such claim of the said Mary Martin ; 
and further commanded the said sheriff to have then there 
that writ. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, that 
the said writ was afterwards, to wit, on the said seventh day of 
August, delivered to Jacob Westervelt, Esquire, who then and 
there was, and at and after the return of the same writ conti- 
nued to be sheriff of the city and county of New- York, to be by 
him as such sheriff executed in due form of law. And the said 
Mary Martin further in fact says, that the said sheriff, after the 
said writ was so delivered to him as aforesaid, and before the 
return thereof, to wit, on the seventh day of August, at the city 
and county of New-York, did, by virtue of such writ, arrest and 
take the body of the said Jack, and did, afterwards, to wit, at 
the day, hour and place so for that purpose specified in said 
writ, bring him before the said Richard Puker, then yet being such 
recorder as aforesaid. And the said Mary Martin further in 
fact says, that at the day, hour and place so specified in the 
said writ, the said recorder did proceed to hear the proofs and 
allegations of the said Mary Martin and the said Jack, touching 
the matter of such writ ; and such proceedings were thereupon 

2 



10 

had in that behalf before said recorder, that afterwards, to wit, 
on the twenty-third day of August, in the year last aforesaid, at > 
the city of New- York aforesaid, it did appear to the said Ri- 
chard Riker, then yet being such recorder as aforesaid, that 
the said Mary Martin was entitled to the services of the said 
Jack ; and thereupon he, the said Richard Riker, as such re- 
corder, did then and there grant to the said Mary Martin a cer- 
tificate, stating (among other things) that it satisfactorily ap- 
peared that the said Jack owes service to the said Mary Mar- 
tin, and allowing the said Mary Martin, or any agent by her to 
be appointed, to take the said Jack, without any unnecessary 
delay, through and out of the state of New-York, on the direct 
route to New-Orleans, in the state of Louisiana ; in which said 
certificate it was further stated that the said Jack was about 
thirty-three years of age, about five feet four inches high, rather 
a light-coloured negro, and of a thick make, having a scar over 
his left eye. And the said Mary Martin further in fact says, 
that the said Jack was then and there by the said recorder de- 
livered into the custody of the sheriff of the city and county of 
New- York, who was then and there by the said Mary Martin 
appointed to receive said Jack for the purpose of his removal 
as aforesaid to New-Orleans aforesaid : wherefore the said Mary 
Martin, at the said time, when, &c. took the said Jack, a negro 
man, and him taken, detained, as was lawful for her to do for 
the causes aforesaid : and this she, the said Mary Martin, is 
ready to verify ; wherefore she prays judgment, and a return of 
the said Jack, a negro man, as her slave, to be adjudged to 
her, &c. 

And the said Jack, as to the said avowry by the said Mary 
Martin first above made, saith, that he, the said Jack, by reason 
of any thing by her in that avowry above alleged, ought not to 
avow the taking and detaining of him, the said Jack, because 
he saith, protesting, that the said Richard Riker never did make 
or issue any such certificate as is in that behalf in the said 
avowry alleged 4 because he saith that the said Mary Martin at 
the time of taking him, the said Jack, as is in his said declara- 
tion in that behalf alleged, was and still is wholly and entirely 
a resident of the city and county of New- York, and not of the 
city of New-Orleans, or elsewhere out of the said city and 



11 

county of New- York ; and this he, the said Jack is ready to 
verify. Wherefore, inasmuch as the said Mary Martin hath 
acknowledged the taking and detaining of him, the said Jack, 
he, the said Jack, prays judgment and his damages, by reason 
of the taking and unjust detaining him as aforesaid to be ad- 
judged to him. 

And for a further plea in this behalf, to the said first avowry 
of the said Mary Martin, the said Jack, by leave of the court 
here for that purpose first had and obtained, saith, that the said 
Mary Martin, at the time of taking and obtaining him, the said 
Jack, as in his said declaration in that behalf alleged, was a citizen 
of the state of New-York, and could not lawfully hold the said 
Jack as a slave, and this the said Jack is ready to verify : where- 
fore inasmuch as the said Mary Martin hath acknowledged the 
taking and detaining him, the said Jack, he, the said Jack, prays 
judgment and his damages by reason of the taking and un- 
justly detaining him as aforesaid, to be adjudged to him, &x. 

And for a further plea in this behalf, to the said first avowry 
of the said Mary Martin, the said Jack, by leave of the court 
here for that purpose first had and obtained, according to the 
form of the statute in such case made and provided, saith, that 
the said Mary Martin, by reason of any thing in her said 
avowry alleged, ought not to avow the taking and detaining of 
the said Jack, because he says that — heretofore, while the said 
Mary Martin held him the said Jack to service, and claimed he 
was the slave of the said Mary Martin by the laws of the state 
of Louisiana aforesaid, she, the said Mary, being then and before 
that time a resident of New-Orleans aforesaid, in the said state, 
to wit, on the first day of March, A. D. 1833, removed from 
New-Orleans aforesaid to the city of New-York, and thereby 
then and there became a resident of the city of New- York, and 
a citizen of the state of New-York, to wit at the city and 
county of New-York aforesaid, by means whereof the said 
Jack became a. free man. And this he, the said Jack, is ready 
to verify; wherefore, inasmuch as she, the said Mary Martin, 
hath acknowledged the taking and detaining of the said Jack, 
he, the said Jack, prays judgment and his damages by reason 
of the unjust taking and detaining him as aforesaid, to be 
adjudged to him. 



12 

And the said Jack, as to the said avowry of the said Mary 
Martin, by her secondly above made, saith, that by reason of 
any thing therein contained, the said Mary ought not to avow 
the taking and detaining the said Jack, because he saith that 
he, the said Jack, at the time of taking and detaining him as 
aforesaid, was not the slave of the said Mary, but was a free 
man, to wit, at the city and county of New- York, and this he, 
the said Jack, prays may be inquired of by the country, and the 
said Mary doth the like, &c. 

And the said Jack, as to the avowry of the said Mary Martin, 
by her thirdly above made, saith, that by reason of any thing 
therein contained, the said Mary Martin ought not to avow the 
taking and detaining of the said Jack, because he saith, that at 
the time of the taking and detaining of him, the said Jack, as in 
the said declaration mentioned, he, the said Jack, was a free, 
man, and not the slave of the said Mary, nor in any manner 
owing her service, to wit, at the city and county of New-York 
aforesaid ; and this he is ready to verify. Wherefore, inasmuch 
as the said Mary hath acknowledged the taking and detaining 
of the said Jack, he prays judgment and his damages by reason 
of the taking and unjustly detaining him as aforesaid, to be 
adjudged to him, &.c. 

And the said Mary Martin saith, that the said plea in bar of 
the said Jack, by him firstly above pleaded to the said first 
avowry of the said Mary Martin, and the matters in said plea in 
bar contained, are not sufficient in law to bar her, the said 
Mary Martin, from having judgment on her said first avowry, 
and a return of the said Jack as her slave, and that she, the said 
Mary Martin, is not bound by the law of the land to answer the 
same, and this she the said Mary Martin is ready to verify : 
wherefore, for want of a sufficient plea in bar in this behalf, she, 
the said Mary Martin, as before, prays judgment and a return 
of the said Jack, a negro man, as her slave, to be adjudged to 
her, &c. 

And the said Mary Martin saith, that the said plea in bar of 
the said Jack, by him secondly above pleaded to the said first 
avowry of the said Mary Martin, and the matters in said plea in 
bar contained, are not sufficient in law to bar her, the said Mary 
Martin, from having judgment on her said first avowry, and a 



13 

return of the said Jack as her slave, and that she, the said Mary 
Martin, is not bound by the law of the land to answer the same, 
and this she, the said Mary Martin, is ready to verify : wherefore, 
for want of a sufficient plea in bar in this behalf, she, the said 
Mary Martin, as before, prays judgment and a return of the said 
Jack, a negro man, as her slave, to be adjudged to her, &c. 

And the said Mary Martin saith, that the said plea in bar of 
the said Jack, by him thirdly above pleaded to the said first 
avowry of the said Mary Martin, and the matters in the said 
plea in bar contained, are not sufficient in law to bar her, the 
said Mary Martin, from having judgment on her said first avowry, 
and a return of the said Jack as her slave ; and that she, the said 
Mary Martin, is not bound by the law of the land to answer the 
same, and this she the said Mary Martin is ready to verify : 
wherefore, for want of a sufficient plea in bar in this behalf, 
she, the said Mary Martin, as before, prays judgment and a 
return of the said Jack, a negro man, as her slave, to be ad- 
judged to her, &c. 

And the said Mary Martin, as to the said plea in bar of the 
said Jack, to the said third avowry of her, the said JMary Martin 
saith, that she, by reason of any thing by the said Jack in that 
plea above alleged, ought not to be barred from avowing the 
taking of the said Jack, at the said place at which, &,c, and 
justly &c. ; because as she saith, that before and at the said 
time of the taking and detaining of him, the said Jack, as in the 
said declaration mentioned, he, the said Jack, was the slave of 
the said Mary Martin, owing her service in manner and form as 
she, the said Mary Martin, hath before above in her said third 
avowry alleged, and not in any snanner a free man, as he, the 
said Jack, hath above in his said plea to the said third avowry 
alleged ; and of this she, the said Mary Martin, puts herself upon 
the country, &c. 

And the said Jack saith, that the said plea in bar of the said 
Jack, by him first above pleaded to the said first avowry of the 
said Mary Martin, and the matters in the said plea in bar con- 
tained, are sufficient in law to bar the said Mary Martin from 
having judgment on her said first avowry, and a return of the 
said Jack as her slave, and which said plea in bar, and the 
matters therein contained, the said Jack is ready to verify and 



14 

prove as the court here shall direct and award ; and because the 
said Mary Martin hath not answered the said plea in bar, nor 
in any manner denied the same, the said Jack, as before, prays 
judgment and his damages, by reason of the taking and un- 
justly detaining him as aforesaid, to be adjudged to him, &c. 

And th«s aid Jack saith, that the said plea in bar of the said 
Jack, by him secondly above pleaded to the said first avowry of 
the said Mary Martin, and the matter in said plea in bar con- 
tained, are sufficient in law to bar the said Mary Martin from 
having judgment on her said first avowry, and a return of the 
said Jack as her slave ; and which said plea in bar, and the 
matters therein contained, the said Jack is ready to verify and 
prove as the court here shall direct and award. And because 
the said Mary Martin hath not answered the said plea in bar, 
nor in any manner denied the same, the said Jack, as before, 
prays judgment, and his damages, by reason of the taking and 
unjustly detaining him as aforesaid, to be adjudged to him, &c. 

And the said Jack saith, that the said plea in bar of the said 
Jack, by him thirdly above pleaded to the said first avowry of 
the said Mary Martin, and the matter in the said plea in bar 
contained, are sufficient in law to bar the said Mary Martin 
from having judgment on her said first avowry, and a return of 
the said Jack as her slave ; and which said plea in bar, and the 
matters therein contained, the said Jack is ready to verify and 
prove as the court here shall direct and award. And because 
the said Mary Martin hath not answered the said plea in bar, 
nor in any manner denied the same, the said Jack, as before, 
prays judgment and his damages, by reason of the taking and 
unjustly detaining him as aforesaid, to be adjudged to him, &c. 

Therefore, to try the issue above joined, whereof the parties 
have put themselves upon the country, let a jury thereupon 
come at the next term of this court, to be held at the city hall 
of the city of New-York, in and for the city and county of New- 
York, before the justices of the same court, the first Monday of 
November next, twelve, &c, each of whom, &c, who neither, 
&c, to recognise, &c, because as well, &c, the same day is 
given to the parties here, &c. 

And because the said court, before the aforesaid justices 
thereof now here, are not yet advised what judgment to give of 



15 

and upon the premises whereof the parties have put themselves 
upon the judgment of the court, a day is therefore given to the 
parties aforesaid, before the said justices of the said the Superior 
Court of the city of New-York aforesaid, at the city hall of the 
city of New- York, until the first Monday of November next, to 
hear the judgment of the said court thereupon, for that the said 
court, before the aforesaid justices thereof now here, are not 
yet advised thereof, &c. 

At which day, that is to say, on the first Monday of Novem- 
ber, of November term, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and thirty-three, in this same court aforesaid, 
before the justices thereof aforesaid, at the place aforesaid, come 
the parties aforesaid, by their attorneys aforesaid, and the 
jurors of the jury aforesaid do not come therefore as before to 
try the said issue above joined between the parties aforesaid, 
whereof they have put themselves upon the country ; let a jury 
thereupon come at the next term of the said the Superior Court 
of the city of New-York, to be held at the city hall of the 
city of New- York, in and for the city and county of New-York, 
before the justices of the same court, on the first Monday of 
December next, twelve, &c, each of whom, &c, who neither, 
&c, to recognise, &c, because as well, &c, the same day is 
given to the parties here, &c. 

And because the said court, before the aforesaid justices 
thereof now here, are not yet advised what judgment to give of 
and upon the premises, whereof the said parties have put them- 
selves upon the judgment of the court, a day is therefore given 
to the parties aforesaid, before the said justices of the said the 
Superior Court of the city of New-York aforesaid, at the city 
hall of the city of New- York, until the first Monday of Decem- 
ber next, to hear the judgment of the said court thereupon, for 
that the said court, before the aforesaid justices thereof now 
here, are not yet advised thereof, &c. 

At which day, that is to say, on the first Monday of Decem- 
ber, of December term, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and thirty-three, in this same court aforesaid, be- 
fore the aforesaid justices thereof, at the place aforesaid, come 
the parties aforesaid, by their respective attorneys aforesaid, 
and the jurors of the jury aforesaid, do not come. 



16 

And thereupon all and singular the premises being seen, 
whereof the said parties have put themselves upon the judgment 
of the court, and by the said court, before the aforesaid justices 
thereof now here, fully understood, and mature deliberation 
being thereupon had, it is considered by the said court, that 
the said plea in bar of the said Jack, by him firstly above plead- 
ed to the said first avowry of the said Mary Martin, and the 
matters in the said plea in bar contained, are not sufficient in 
Jaw to bar her, the said Mary Martin, from having judgment 
on her said first avowry, and a return of the said Jack as her 
slave, and that she, the said Mary Martin, is not bound by the 
4aw of the land to answer the same. 

And that the said plea in bar of the said Jack, by him se- 
condly above pleaded to the said first avowry of the said Mary 
Martin, and the matters in said plea in bar contained, are not 
sufficient in law to bar her, the said Mary Martin, from having 
judgment on her said first avowry, and the return of the said 
Jack as her slave, and that she, the said Mary Martin, is not 
bound by the law of the land to answer the same. 

And that the said plea in bar of the said Jack, by him thirdly 
above pleaded to the said first avowry of the said Mary Martin, 
and the matters in the said plea in bar contained, are not suf- 
ficient in law to bar her, the said Mary Martin, from having 
judgment on her said first avowry, and a return of the said Jack 
as her slave, and that she, the said Mary Martin, is not bound 
by the law of the land to answer the same. 

And it is further considered by the said court, before the 
aforesaid justices thereof now here, that for a want of a suffi- 
cient plea in bar in this behalf to the said, first avowry of her, 
the said Mary Martin, the said Jack, a negro man, take nothing 
by his said writ, but that he and his said caution, &c, be in 
mercy, &c, and that the said Mary Martin do go thereof with- 
out day. 

And it is further considered, that the said Mary Martin had 
good right and lawful authority to take the said Jack, and him 
taken, to detain in manner and form as she, the said Mary Mar- 
tin, in her said first avowry hath alleged ; and therefore, it is 
commanded to the sheriff of the city and county of New- York, 
that from causing the said Jack to be replevied by virtue of the 



17 

aforesaid writ of the people to him, the said sheriff, in that be- 
half directed, he, the said sheriff, entirely supersede ; and that 
from further detaining or holding him, the said Jack, on pre- 
tence of the same writ, he, the said sheriff, do altogether super- 
sede. 

£r* And it is further considered by the said court, 
c" c a'ffq before ihe aforesaid justices thereof, that the 
o- £_, cd said Mary Martin do recover against the said 
d. 2. ri ~ Jack one hundred and thirteen dollars and 

p H M 

Ha § °§ seventy-seven cents, for her costs and charges, 
o w ^ » 2. by her about her defence in this behalf ex- 
L, =r g.^' =r pended, now here before the aforesaid justices 
O*^ 1 c 3 w taxed and adjudged to her, according to the 
w : ' c b cd" co f° rm °f tne statute in such case made and pro- 
pa &i, m 2" vided, and that she have execution thereof, 

r 1 2. S S p 1 
OQ -< 3 &c. (fee. 

Filed, January 17, 1834, at 33 minutes past 10 o'clock, A. M. 

Afterwards, that is to say, on the first Monday in May, A. D. 
eighteen hundred and thirty-four, before the Supreme Court 
of Judicature of the people of the state of New-York, at the 
city hall of the city of New- York, comes the said Jack, by his 
attorney aforesaid, and says, that in the record and proceedings 
aforesaid, and in giving the judgment aforesaid, there is manifest 
error, in this, that the avowries aforesaid, and the matters therein 
contained, were not sufficient in law for the said Mary to hold 
and detain the said Jack ; and also there is error in this, that 
the judgment aforesaid, by the record aforesaid, appears to have 
been given for the said Mary against the said Jack, whereas, 
by the law of the land, the said judgment ought to have been 
given for the said Jack against the said Mary. And the said 
Jack prays, that the judgment aforesaid, for the errors aforesaid, 
and for other errors in the said record being, may be re- 
versed, annulled, and altogether holden for nought, and that he 
may be restored to all things which he has lost by occasion of 
the said judgment. 

And hereupon afterwards, to wit, on the first Monday of May, 
of May term, in the vear of our Lord one thousand eight 

8 



18 

hundred and thirty-four, the said Mary Martin, by Jesse W. 
Benedict, her attorney, freely comes here into court, and says, 
that in the record and proceedings aforesaid, or in giving the 
judgment aforesaid, there is no error ; and she prays, that the 
said Supreme Court of Judicature, before the aforesaid justices 
thereof now here, may proceed to examine as well the record 
and proceedings aforesaid, as the matters aforesaid above 
assigned for error, and that the judgment aforesaid, in form 
aforesaid given, may be in all things affirmed, &c. 

And because the said court, before the aforesaid justices 
thereof now here, are not yet advised what judgment to give of 
and upon the premises, a day is therefore given to the parties 
aforesaid, before the said justices of the Supreme Court of Ju- 
dicature aforesaid, at the academy in the city of Utica, until 
the first Monday of July next, to hear the judgment of the said 
court thereupon ; for that the said court, before the aforesaid 
justices thereof now here, are not yet advised thereof, &c. ; at 
which day, before the said justices of the Supreme Court of 
Judicature aforesaid, at the academy in the city of Utica, come 
as well the said Jack, by his attorney aforesaid, as the said 
Mary Martin, by her attorney aforesaid. Whereupon, as well 
the record and proceedings aforesaid, and the judgment given 
in form aforesaid, as the matters aforesaid, by the said Jack, a 
negro man, above for error assigned, being seen, and by the 
said Supreme Court, before the aforesaid justices thereof now 
here, fully understood, and mature deliberation being thereup- 
on had, it appears to the said Supreme Court, before the afore- 
said justices thereof now here, that there is no error, either in 
the record and proceedings aforesaid, or in giving the judgment 
aforesaid. Therefore, it is considered by the said Supreme Court, 
before the aforesaid justices thereof now here, that the judgment 
aforesaid, in form aforesaid given, be in all things affirmed, and 
stand in full force and effect, the several matters above for error 
assigned in any wise notwithstanding. And it is further con- 
sidered by the said Supreme Court, before the aforesaid jus- 
tices thereof now here, that the said Mary Martin had good 
right and lawful authority to take the said Jack, and him taken 
to detain, in manner and form as she, the said Mary Martin, 
in her said first avowry hath alleged. And therefore it is com- 



19 

manded to the sheriff of the city and county of New- York, that 
from causing the said Jack to be replevied by virtue of the 
aforesaid writ of the people issued out of the said Superior 
Court, to him the said sheriff in that behalf directed, he, the 
said sheriff, entirely supersede, and from further detaining or 
holding him, the said Jack, on pretence of the same writ, he, 
the said sheriff, do altogether supersede. 

And it is further considered by the said Supreme Court, be- 
fore the aforesaid justices thereof now here, that the said Mary 
Martin do recover against the said Jack, a negro man, as well 
her costs and charges aforesaid, so as aforesaid taxed and 
adjudged to her by the said Superior Court, as also one hundred 
and twenty dollars and eighty-two cents, by the said Supreme 
Court, before the aforesaid justices thereof now here, adjudged 
to the said Mary Martin, according to the form 
of the statute in such case made and provided, 
for her costs and charges which she hath sus- 
tained and expended, in and about her defence 
on the said writ of error, which said costs and 
charges in the whole amount to two hundred 
and thirty-four dollars and fifty-nine cents, and 
that the said Mary Martin have execution 
thereof, &c. 

And the said Jack, a negro man, in mercy, 
&c. 





o> 


r/ > ct> 5 




c 


3 W5 OS 




J1 


ment 
hth d 
d eig 


$ 






y 




s o <n' 


s> 




CD ,— 


r 




O.^ ~ 


r 1 




£J^ 


H 




P O CD 
9 3 


-3 




jH 




°- CD «* 






5 S P 



IN THE COURT FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS. 
Jack, a Negro Man,) 

Mary Martin. ) 

Afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-third day of August, 
eighteen hundred and thirty-four, before the president of the 
senate, senators, and chancellor of the state of New- York, in 
the Court for the Correction of Errors of the state of New- 
York, at the said city of New-York, comes the said Jack, by 
his attorney aforesaid, and says, that in the record and pro- 
ceedings aforesaid, and in giving the judgments of the said Su- 
perior Court and the said Supreme Court aforesaid, there is 



20 

manifest error in this, to wit, that the avowries aforesaid, and 
the matters therein contained, are not sufficient in law for the 
said Mary Martin to hold and detain the said Jack ; and there 
is error also in this, that the judgment aforesaid of the said 
Superior Court, by the record aforesaid, appears to have been 
given for the said Mary Martin against the said Jack, whereas, 
by the law of the land, the said judgment ought to have been 
given for the said Jack, against the said Mary Martin. And 
also there is error in this, that the judgment of the said Supe- 
rior Court aforesaid, is affirmed in all things by the said Su- 
preme Court of Judicature of the people of the state of New- 
York, whereas, by the law of the land, the same ought to have 
been reversed. 

And the said Jack prays that the judgment aforesaid of the 
said Superior Court, and the judgment of the said Supreme 
Court thereon, for the errors aforesaid, and for other errors in 
the said record and proceedings being, may be reversed, an* 
nulled, and altogether holden for nought, and that he may be 
restored to all things which he hath lost by occasion of the 

said judgment. 

R. Sedgwick, AWy and of Counsel, 



IN THE COURT FOR THE TRIAL OF IMPEACH* 
MENTS AND CORRECTION OF ERRORS. 

Mary Martin, Defendant in Error, ) 

ads. > 

Jack, a Negro Man, Plaintiff in Error. 3 

And hereupon the said Mary Martin, by Jesse W. Bene- 
dict, her attorney, freely comes here before the said president 
of the senate, senators, and chancellor, in the said Court for the 
Trial of Impeachments and Correction of Errors, at the city 
of Albany, and says, that there is not any error in the record 
and proceedings aforesaid, or in giving the judgment aforesaid ; 
and she prays that the said Court for the Trial of Impeach* 
ments and Correction of Errors here, may proceed to examine 
as well the record and proceedings aforesaid, as the matters 
aforesaid above for error assigned, and that the judgment afore- 
said, in form aforesaid given, may be in all things affirmed, &c. ; 
but because, &c. 

J. W. Benedict, AWy for Defendant in Error* 

Charles O'Connor, of Counsel. 



21 



Jack, a Negro Man,^ 

vs. > By the Court, Nelson, J. 

Mary Martin, j 

The constitution of the United States, art. 4, sec. 2, sub. 3, 
provides!, that " no person held to service or labour in one state, 
under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in conse- 
quence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from 
such service or labour ; but shall be delivered up on claim of the 
party to whom such service or labour may be due. 1 ' At the se- 
cond session of the second congress under the constitution, an 
act was passed to carry into effect this part of the foregoing ar- 
ticle^ substantially as follows : That when any person held to 
labour in any of the United States, or in either of the territories 
under the laws thereof, shall escape into any other of the said 
states or territories, the person to whom such labour may be due, 
his agent or attorney, is empowered to seize or arrest such fugi- 
tive, and to take him or her before any judge of the Circuit or 
District Courts of the United States, residing or being within 
the state, or before any magistrate of a county, city, or town 
corporate, wherein such seizure or arrest shall be made; and 
upon proof to the satisfaction of such judge or magistrate, either 
by oral testimony or affidavit, taken before and certified by a 
magistrate of any such state or territory, that the person so 
seized, doth, under the laws of the state or territory from which 
he or she fled, owe service to the person thus detaining him or 
her, it shall be the duty of such judge or magistrate to give a 
certificate to th<; claimant, his agent or attorney, which shall be 
a sufficient warrant for removing said fugitive to the state or 
territory from which he or she fled. The 4th section makes it 
penal for any one knowingly to obstruct or hinder such claim- 
ant, agent or attorney, in seizing or arresting the fugitive, or for 
rescuing him after arrest in pursuance of the authority given in 
the 3d section ; or for harbouring or concealing him or her 
knowing him or her to be a fugitive from labour as above. The 
case under consideration is supposed to involve the constitu- 
tionality of this law of congress, and in result that of this state 
(2 R. S. 560. sec. 6 to 19 inclusive,) which provides for the ar- 
rest of fugitive slaves in a manner in some respects different 



22 

from the law of congress, and gives to the slaves the writ of ho- 
mine replegiando against the person or agent claiming their 
service, and suspends all proceedings before the judge or ma- 
gistrate, and tho caption or removal of such fugitives under the 
certificate, till final judgment shall be given on this writ. This 
replevin suit is under the above provision of the state law, and 
the defendant, in the Superior Court, set up in defence the fact, 
that the plaintiff was her slave, and then acknowledged the tak- 
ing by virtue of proceedings alleged to be in conformity to the 
above act of congress. To this the plaintiff replied by way of 
plea, that at the time of the seizure, the defendant was a citi- 
zen of the state of New-York, and incapable by the laws of that 
state to hold him in slavery. Under a common principle of 
pleading, that every material fact properly set forth and not de- 
nied by the adverse party is admitted, the facts that the plaintiff 
owed service to the defendant under the laws of the state of 
Louisiana ; that he fled from that state and service into the 
state of New- York, remained there against her will, a fugitive 
from her service till the seizure ; and the seizure under the act 
of congress as set forth in the avowry, are all admitted on the 
record. The demurrer also admits the fact set forth in the 
plea, i. e. that the defendant was a citizen of this state at the 
time of the arrest. If this plea should be determined defective, 
under another familiar rule of pleading, the plaintiff has a right 
on the argument to go back to the avowry and test its suf- 
ficiency, and hence the question of the constitutionality of the 
•law of congress and of this state may be legitimately raised. 
I assume for the present, that the proceedings before the re- 
corder were substantially in conformity to the act of congress, 
and may be sustained thereby if it is valid. In order to deter- 
mine the force and effect of the respective statutes, and to as- 
certain which is entitled to paramount authority, we must go 
back to the source of power — the provision of the constitution, 
that being conceded to be supreme, and any law in pursuance 
thereof controlling. The first clause is merely prohibitory upon 
the states, and forbids the enactment of any law, or the adop- 
tion of any regulation in the case of a fugitive slave, by which he 
may be discharged from the service of his master ; and this 
prohibition upon the state power thus far, is unqualified and 



23 

complete, as it necessarily includes a restriction against any 
measure tending in the slightest degree to impair the right 
to such service, no " law or regulation' 1 of a state being 
permitted to discharge it; the claim or title of the owner 
remains as perfect within the jurisdiction of the state to 
which the fugitive has fled after his arrival, and during his 
continuance, as it was in and under the laws of the state 
from which he escaped. The service there due, and the 
escape being established, so explicit are the terms of the consti- 
tution, no rightful authority can be exercised by the state to vary 
the relation existing between the parties. To this very qualified 
extent slavery may be said still to exist in a state, however ef- 
fectually it may have been denounced by her constitution and 
laws. On this point there can be no diversity of opinion as to 
the intent and meaning of this provision ; the doubt arises upon 
the construction to be given to the next clause, "but shall be de- 
livered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labour 
may be due." The counsel for the plaintiff in error contends, 
the mode of making the claim, and of delivering up the fugitive 
is a subject exclusively of state regulation, with which congress 
has no right to interfere ; and upon this view the constitution- 
ality ot the law of this state is sought to be sustained. I appre- 
hend it can be defended upon no other ground than the one 
taken ; for if the power of the state to legislate on this subject is 
only concurrent with congress, after the exercise of it by that 
body in enacting the law of 1793 it would be incompetent for 
the state authorities to act in the matter. That law must be 
paramount from necessity, to avoid the confusion of adverse and 
conflicting legislation. So far as the states are concerned, the 
power when thus exercised is then exhausted, and though they 
might have desired a different legislation on the subject, they 
cannot amend, qualify, or in any manner alter it. This is the 
rule, as I understand it, settled by authority in regard to the con- 
struction of the concurrent powers of legislation in the states, 
and which is conceded to be binding upon the state tribunals 
on questions arising under the constitution and laws of the 
United States. Sturgess v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 193. Hous- 
ton v. Moore, 5 ibid. 1. See also Livingston v. Van Ingen, 9 /. R. 
561.66.68.75. 13 Mass. 16. 3 Serg. and Rawle, 179. I Kent, 



24 

387. 3 Cow. 716. 51. 53, Steam-boat Co. v. Livingston. This 
principle is undoubtedly essential to peace and harmony in the 
action of the two governments. If the power of each in its 
sphere was exclusive throughout, there would be no reason or 
necessity for its application, for then there could be no collision 
without usurpation. But as there is a large mass of concurrent 
powers belonging in common to each in the arrangement of the 
system, confusion would have inevitably followed their opera- 
tions, if one of them had not been made paramount. It was 
therefore provided, (art. 2, sec. 2,) that " this constitution, and 
the laws of the United States which should be made in pursu- 
ance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, 
under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme 
law of the land, and the judges in every state shall be bound 
thereby, any thing in the constitution or in the laws of any state 
to the contrary notwithstanding." Wherever congress can 
lawfully act under the constitution, their judgment and discre- 
tion are supreme on the subject of this provision, and in the 
exercise of concurrent powers the states must necessarily be 
subordinate. Neither can the states exercise a concurrent 
power in conjunction with congress, without their express per- 
mission ; for the right to do so would be in derogation of their 
paramount authority, and lead to all the evil it was designed to 
avoid. Though the act of the state might not be in direct re- 
pugnance to the legislation of congress, it does not follow that 
it is not so in legal effect : for it has been correctly said, that the 
will of congress may be discovered as well by what they have 
not declared as by what they have expressed ; that two distinct 
wills cannot at the same time be exercised in relation to the 
same subject effectually, and at the same time be compatible 
with each other. If they correspond in every respect, then the 
latter is idle and inoperative ; if they differ, they must in the na- 
ture of things oppose each other so far as they differ. If this 
conclusion be correct, to sustain the legislature of the state under 
the clause of the constitution in question, it is indispensable to 
show their power to be exclusive ; as congress have already pass- 
ed a law to carry it into execution. It is material to look into the 
object of this clause of the constitution ; the evil to be guarded 
against* and the nature and character of the rights to be protect- 



25 

ed and enforced, in order to comprehend its meaning and deter- 
mine what powers and their extent may be rightfully claimed un- 
der it. At the adoption of the constitution, a small minority of the 
states had abolished slavery within their limits, either by posi- 
tive enactment or judicial adjudication ; and the southern states 
are known to have been more deeply interested in this slave 
labour than those of the north, where slavery yet to some extent 
existed, but where it must have been seen it would probably 
soon disappear. It was natural for that portion of the Union 
to fear that the latter states might, under the influence of this 
unhappy and exciting subject, be tempted to adopt a course of 
legislation that would embarrass the owners pursuing their fu- 
gitive slaves, if not discharge them from service, and invite es- 
cape by affording a place of refuge. They already had some 
experience of the perplexities in this respect under the confede- 
ration, which contained no provision on the subject ; and the 
serious and almost insurmountable difficulties that this species 
of property occasioned in the convention generally, was well 
calculated to confirm their strongest apprehensions. To this 
source must be attributed, no doubt, the provision of the con- 
stitution, and which directly meets the evil, by not only prohib- 
iting the states from enacting any regulation discharging the 
slave from service, but by directing that he shall be delivered up 
to the owner. It implies a doubt whether they would, in the ex- 
ercise of unrestrained power, regard the rights of the owner, or 
properly protect them by local legislation. The object of the 
provision being thus palpable, it should receive a construction 
that will operate most effectually to accomplish the end con- 
sistent with the terms of it. This we may reasonably infer will 
be in accordance with the intent of the makers, and will regard 
with becoming respect the rights of those especially interested 
in its execution. Which power then was it intended should be 
charged with the duty of prescribing the mode in which this 
injunction of the constitution should be carried into effect ; and 
of enforcing its execution, the states or congress ? It is very 
clear, if left to the former, the great purpose of the provision 
might be defeated, in spite of the constitution. The states 
might omit any legislation on the subject, and thereby leave 
the owner without any known means by which to assert his 

4 



26 

rights : or they might so encumber and embarrass the pro- 
secution of them, as to be tantamount to a denial. That 
all this could not be done or omitted without disregarding 
the spirit of the constitution is true ; but the provision itself is 
founded upon the assumption that without it the acknowledged 
rights of the owners would not be observed or protected : it was 
made in express terms, to guard against a possible act of injus- 
tice by the state authorities. The idea that the framers of the 
constitution intended to leave the regulation of this subject to 
the states, when the provision itself obviously sprung out of 
their fears of partial and unjust legislation by them in respect 
to it, cannot readily be admitted. It would present an incon- 
sistency of action and an unskilfulness in the adoption of means 
for the end in view, too remarkable to have been overlooked by 
a much less wise body of men. They must naturally have seen 
and felt that the spirit apprehended to exist in the states, which 
made this provision expedient, would be able to frustrate its 
object in regulating the mode and manner of carrying it into 
effect. That the remedy of the evil, and the security of rights, 
would not be complete unless this power was also vested in the 
national government. This consideration requires additional 
force, when we take in connexion the fact, that upon the suppo- 
sition of exclusive state power to legislate, the owner could not 
resort to the national judiciary for an exposition of the state 
law, or to review the adjudications of the state tribunals. 
Their decision would be final. When the power of the state to 
legislate over a given subject is concurrent with congress, the 
appellate jurisdiction of the national judiciary may be invoked 
to review and correct the errors of the state judiciary. This 
right is derived from the clause in the constitution which pro- 
vides, that " the judicial powers shall extend to all cases in law 
and equity arising under this constitution, the laws of the United 
States, &c, art. 3, sec. 2. See also, sub. 2, which gives ap- 
pellate jurisdiction, and is deemed essential to the authority and 
efficiency of the general government. If the power of the state 
legislation is exclusive, it is then like the great mass of the 
power belonging to it, and where the law can be expounded 
and enforced only by the state tribunals, with the excepted case 
of the owner being a resident of another state. The right of 



'27 

review would then rest upon the residence of the party, and not 
upon the nature of the subject matter, and in no way weakens the 
view taken. Upon the construction, then, contended for by the 
plaintiff in error, whatever might be the regulation of the stated 
as to the claim of the owner under the constitution, or however 
vexatious and embarrassing might be the conditions annexed 
to the surrender of the fugitive, their action would be final and 
conclusive, and beyond the reach of the national government 
to afford a remedy. I am also satisfied, from an attentive peru- 
sal of this provision, that a fair interpretation of the terms in 
which it is expressed, not only prohibits the states from legisla- 
tion upon the question involving the owner's right to this species 
of labour, but that it is intended to give to congress the power 
to provide the delivering up of the slave. It is peremptory 
and unqualified, that he " shall be delivered up upon claim of 
the party to whom such service or labour may be due. 1 ' The 
right of the owner to reclaim the fugitive in the state to which 
he fled has been yielded up to him by the states. Without this 
provision, it would have been competent for them to have wholly 
denied such claim, or to have qualified it at discretion. All 
this power they have parted with ; and the owner now has not 
only an unqualified right to the possession, but he has the gua- 
ranty of the constitution in respect to it. It is obvious, if con- 
gress have not the power to prescribe the mode and manner of 
the " delivering up," and thereby provide the means of enforc- 
ing the execution of the rights secured by this provision, its 
solemn guaranty may be wholly disregarded in spite of the 
government. The power seems indispensable to enable it faith- 
fully to discharge the obligation to the states and citizens in- 
terested. The subject itself, as well from its nature as from the 
persons alone interested in it, seems appropriately to belong to 
the national government. It concerns rights held under the 
Jaws, to be enforced within the jurisdiction of states other than 
those in which the citizens generally interested in them reside, 
and on a subject, too, known deeply to affect the public mind, 
and in respect to which distinct and adverse interests and views 
had already appeared, in the Union. It was therefore fit and 
proper that the whole matter should be placed under the con- 
trol of congress, where the rights and interests of the different 



as 

sections of the country liable to be influenced by local and 
peculiar causes, would be regulated and enforced with an inde- 
pendent and impartial regard to all. It was a subject affecting 
citizens at the time in almost every part of the Union, more or 
less; a uniform rule respecting which was desirable, and could be 
attained only by placing it under the action of the national 
government. We may add also, that as the power of legisla- 
tion belonging to the states is in no instance derived from the 
constitution of the United States, but flows from their own 
sovereign authority, any law they might pass on the subject 
would not be binding beyond their jurisdiction, and any precept 
or authority given in pursuance of it would convey none to the 
owner to remove the fugitive beyond it: the authority of each 
state through which it was necessary to pass would become in- 
dispensable. The above view is in strict accordance with the 
decisions of this court upon the clause in question, as far as it 
has come under observation, and also with those under the an- 
alogous provision respecting fugitives from justice. The case 
of Glen v. Hodges, 9 /. R. 67, was an action of trespass for 
taking out of the possession of a citizen of this state a negro 
slave who had escaped into Vermont. The owner pursued and 
seized him there, and he was forcibly taken out of his custody 
by a public officer, under the attachment law of that state for 
debt, and which was set up in justification by the defendant, in 
whose favour it issued. The court say, " he (the slave) was 
held to service or labour under the laws of this state when he 
escaped, and the escape did not discharge him, but the master 
was entitled to reclaim him in the state to which he fled." This 
is according to a provision in the constitution of the United 
States, (art. 4, s. 2 ;) and the act of Congress of 12 February, 
1793, (Laws of U. S. vol. ii. 165,) prescribes the mode of re- 
claiming the slave. The court decided, that the proceedings 
under the attachment, which were regular, formed no justifica- 
tion for the taking : so complete was the right of the owner 
under the constitution and laws. The provision of the consti- 
tution respecting fugitives from justice, is found in the same 
section and article with the one in question, and is as follows : 
" a person charged in any state with treason, felony, or other 
crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in another 



29 

state, shall, on demand of the executive authority of the state 
from which he fled, be delivered up to be removed to the state 
having jurisdiction of the crime." The same act of congress of 
1793, has provided for carrying this provision into effect. It is 
quite clear from the language of this provision, that the argu- 
ments in favour of the power of exclusive state legislation, and 
of course to regulate the manner of charging the crime, of 
making the demand by the executive, and of delivering up the 
fugitive to be removed, is stronger ; and the reasons against the 
practical exercise of it, independently of the language, much 
less cogent and conclusive than those under the clause in ques- 
tion. Every state is alike interested in the detection and pun- 
ishment of public offenders, and there could be but little ap- 
prehension that this power would not have been faithfully 
executed under the regulation of state authorities ; yet the 
power of congress over the subject has never been doubted in 
this state so far as my observation extends, nor have the states 
undertaken to legislate in respect to it. In the matter of Clark, 
9 Wend. 219, which was a case under this clause, the chief 
justice recognised the binding effect of the law of 1793, and 
considered the proceedings in conformity to it as conclusive 
upon the state courts. The prisoner, in that case, offered to 
prove, upon the return of the habeas corpus, the charge of the 
offence upon him, in the warrant of the governor by which he 
was arrested, to be untrue. But this court considered the in- 
quiry even as to probable guilt, precluded by the constitutional 
pro\ision, and the law in pursuance of it. These being com- 
plied with, the right to the removal was complete under the pa- 
ramount authority. Great consideration, also, we think due to 
the law of 1793, as a contemporaneous exposition of the con- 
stitutional provision. It was passed about four years after the 
adoption of the constitution, by a congress which included some 
of the most distinguished members of the convention. At the 
distance of forty years, we should hesitate long before we came 
to the conclusion that an error was committed in the construc- 
tion of this instrument under such circumstances, and which 
has been ever since acquiesced in so far as we know without 
question. Our own statute books also show that down to 1830, 
no attempt had been made by state legislation to interfere with 



30 

this regulation of congress. To acknowledge the existence of 
such a power, we must also overlook the negative opinions of 
our own eminent statemen, who participated actively and zeal- 
ously in the scenes of that period ; many of whom, too, were ad- 
verse to the adoption of the constitution, under a belief, among 
others, that the power of the states was too much crippled. 
Whether the power of congress is exclusive or concurrent with 
the states it is unimportant to examine, as we have already 
seen in the latter case, when congress acts upon the subject it 
becomes entire and exclusive. While the law thus passed ex- 
ists, the concurrent power of the states is suspended, and for 
the time is as inoperative as if it never had existed. If this 
principle is sound, or rather if it is settled by the authoritative 
expositors of all questions arising under the constitution and 
laws of the United States, it inevitably follows that the law of 
1830 must yield. However wise and expedient we may con- 
sider its provisions, and though we might in our individual 
opinion give preference to the system there prescribed, for car- 
rying into execution this clause of the constitution, we are com- 
pelled to say the one defined by the law of congress is of para- 
mount authority. Having the power over the subject, the man- 
ner it should be carried into effect rested in their discretion, 
and they have left nothing to state regulation. To show that 
the two acts are repugnant to one another, it is not necessary 
to resort to the argument before referred to, that the will of 
congress may be discovered as well by what they have not de- 
clared as by what they have expressed. Here is direct conflict 
between the two powers. The very question in the case is 
which shall give way? Shall the certificate of the magistrate, 
under the law of 1793, which declares it " shall be a sufficient 
warrant for removing the fugitive from labour, to the state or 
territory from which he fled," be permitted to perform its 
office, or shall the writ under the state law prevent it ? They 
are antagonist and irreconcilable powers, and the case 
forcibly exemplifies the impracticability and danger of the 
exercise of both upon the same subject, and the wisdom of the 
rule that forbids it. It has been said, that under the law of 1793, 
a free citizen might be seized and carried away into captivity, 
and hence the necessity of the law of the state giving to him a 



31 

trial by jury upon the question of freedom. This argument is 
plausible, and the justice of it difficult to deny; but, sound as it 
is, it tends only to prove the defectiveness of the law of congress, 
not the authority of the state. It would be appropriate and 
pertinent before that body to effect an amendment of their law, 
but would be a most sweeping and dangerous position if suffi- 
cient to justify the authority to amend it by state legislation. 
The same argument also might be used with a greater show of 
reason in favour of the power of the state to regulate the sur- 
render of fugitives from justice. An innocent and unoffending 
citizen might be seized and removed to another state upon a 
charge involving his life. In the case of Clark, before referred 
to, his allegation of innocence might have been true. But the 
governor of this state, on the demand of the executive of the 
state of Rhode Island, accompanied with an affidavit, made 
before a magistrate of that state, was bound to give him up, and 
the judicial authorities could not interfere. In that case, all the 
substantial proceedings upon which the arrest and removal were 
effected were necessarily those before officers of other states. 
In the case under review, the proceedings are before a magis- 
trate of our own state, presumed to possess a common sympa- 
thy with his fellow citizens, and where, upon the supposition 
that a freeman is arrested, he may readily procure the evidence 
of his freedom. If the magistrate should finally err in granting 
the certificate, the party can still resort to the national judiciary. 
The proceedings by which his rights have been invaded being 
under a law of congress, the remedy for error or injustice belongs 
peculiarly to that high tribunal. Under their ample shield the 
apprehension of captivity and oppression cannot be alarming. 
That the proceedings before the magistrate were in form under 
the law of the state which required the issuing of a writ of ha- 
beus corpus, (2 R. S. 560. s. 6,) I apprehend cannot materially 
effect the case. Whether the owner or attorney might have 
made the arrest in the first instance without any process, we 
will not stop to examine : authorities of deserved respectability 
and weight have held the affirmative. 2 Pick. 11.5 Serg. and 
Rawle, 62 ; and the case of Glen v. Hodges, in this court, before 
referred to, seems to countenance the same conclusion. It 
would indeed appear to follow as a necessary consequence, 



32 

from the undoubted position, .that under this clause of the con- 
stitution, the right and title of the owner to the service of the 
slave is as entire and perfect within the jurisdiction of the state 
to which, as it was in the one from which he fled. Such seizure 
would be at the peril of the party, and if a freeman was taken, 
he would be answerable like any other trespasser or kidnapper. 
It is sufficient for this case, that the plaintiff was brought before 
an officer authorized by the law of congress to hear and deter- 
mine the question and grant the certificate : that such hearing 
did take place; and that the certificate has been given. 
Neither is it important to inquire whether such officer was 
bound to act under the law, or whether he would expose him- 
self to the penalties of the statute of this state for proceeding in 
any other way than in conformity to its provisions. It is suffi- 
cient for the owner that he did act in the matter substantially 
in conformity to the law of 1793, and gave to him the certificate 
there prescribed as his authority for removal. This is a full 
compliance with the law under which he seeks to reclaim the 
fugitive, and he is entitled to the benefit of its provisions, in this 
if in any case, against the state law. The conclusion to which 
we have arrived upon the leading principles of the case super- 
cedes the necessity of ascertaining the true meaning and effect 
of section 12, (2 R. S. 561,) which declares that the certificate 
shall authorize the person having the same to remove the fugi- 
tive through and out of the state, on the direct route to the place 
of the residence of the claimant. It was obviously drawn under 
the idea that the claimant in all possible cases would be a resi- 
dent of another state. For it cannot be doubted, that under 
the provision of the constitution and laws, the right to this 
species of service is protected without regard to the resi- 
dence of the owner. It is the title to such service under 
the laws of the state from which the fugitive fled, which 
brings the case within its protection. This fact must be es- 
tablished before the magistrate granting the certificate, and 
when established, the right becomes perfect. A citizen of 
this state is as much entitled to the benefit of this provision 
of the constitution as one in Louisiana or elsewhere, and 
the legislation of the state is as inoperative as to one as to the 
other. Upon any other construction the descent or devise of 



33 

this species of property to a resident of this state might operate 
an immediate emancipation, if the slaves fled here. Giving to 
the law of congress a paramount authority supersedes the im- 
portance of this question arising upon the phraseology of the 
state law. The conclusion to which we have arrived, sustains 
the first avowry of the defendant, and entitles her to judgment 
thereon, unless some of the formal objections were well taken, 
which we will hereafter shortly examine. The pleas are no 
answer to it, and present immaterial issues, and so far as the 
state courts are concerned, the right set up in the avowries is 
res judicata under the constitution and laws of the United 
States. The pleas to the second and third avowries take issue 
upon the fact alleged therein, that the plaintiff is the slave of 
the defendant, and a question has been raised, whether upon 
the record, under this view > the defendant is entitled to the judg- 
ment rendered by the Superior Court. This judgment is con- 
fined to the first avowry. From our conclusion upon the main 
question involved, we cannot but see, that upon the whole re- 
cord the defendant is entitled to judgment, notwithstanding the 
issues, upon the second and third avowries, and upon the- sup- 
position they would be determined in favour of the plaintiff. 
(1 Saund. 80. n. 1. 2 Burr, 755. 2 Cow. 512.) If either 
alowry constitutes a good defence to the replevin suit, it is suffi- 
cient, and judgment of return must be given. The case of 
Pike v. Gandall, 9 Wend. 149, much relied on by the plaintiff 
recognises the above principle, and contains no authority for the 
position claimed. There the defendant put in five cognizances, 
acknowledging the taking of the goods for rent ; the plaintiff' did 
not plead, and judgment of non pros, passed against him. Two 
of the cognizances were substantially defective, and for this 
reason, the judgment, having been returned upon all of them, 
was reversed. Assuming the avowries in this case must be 
viewed in the light of several counts in a declaration, as the 
cognizances were there, the one upon which the judgment is 
entered well sustains it, and the others presented either imma- 
terial issues, or the determination of them either way could not 
vary the rights of the parties upon the whole record so long as 
the first was maintained. If the issues on the second and third 
avowries had been tried and found for the plaintiff, the Superior 

5 



. 34 

Court would have been bound to have given judgment for the 
defendant upon the whole record non obstanti veredicto. (2 
Tidd, pi. 830. 1 Burr, 301. 2 T. R. 758. 2 Cow. 626.) One 
good count in a declaration, if sustained by proof, entitles the 
plaintiff to recover upon the whole record, though there may 
be several others which are bad or found against him, if the 
judgment is confined to such good count. So if one of 
several pleas of a defendant, which goes to the action, is sus- 
tained, it constitutes a bar to the recovery of the plaintiff. 
As to the formal objections to the avowry : 1. It is objected, 
' that it is defective for omitting to set out the laws of Louisiana 
under which slavery is tolerated, and that the presumption of 
law is against their existence. No doubt, if the court are not 
warranted in taking official notice of the fact of the existence 
of slavery as a part of the public history of the country, (which 
I am inclined to think we are,) it is necessary for the pleader to 
set it forth, to enable him to prove it, like any other fact in the 
case. But then it is not materia] to spread upon the record 
specially the title under which slavery is claimed to exist, and 
the genera] averment in the avowry is sufficient. It would 
have enabled the plaintiff to have put the fact in issue, if he 
had chosen to place the case upon that point. Where a 
party relies upon the statute or common law of a foreign 
state or country to sustain a proceeding had under and by 
virtue of it; such as an action upon a foreign judgment, it 
is no doubt material that he should set forth so much as may 
enable the court to see that the proceeding is in pursuance of the 
authority by which it is claimed to be sustained. (3 Wend. 276. 
Ibid, 438. 10. Ibid, 74. 2 East. 260.) This rule of pleading I 
apprehend should be confined to such cases, and those that fall 
within the reason of them. It is in analogy to the rules of plead- 
ing applicable to courts of special and limited jurisdiction, and 
all others acting quasi judicially. We may also add, that ac- 
cording to the view of the case we have taken, the question of 
slave or not, according to the laws of the state from whence the 
fugitive fled, belonged to the magistrate under the law of con- 
gress, to decide, and his decision is conclusive in the matter, so 
far as the state courts are concerned. 2. It is objected, that the 
avowry contains no reference to the law under which the pro- 



35 

ceedings have been had, by which the plaintiff was seized and 
held in custody. The answer is, that the court is bound to take 
judicial notice of the constitution and the law of congress in 
pursuance thereof; and the facts set forth in the avowry bring 
the case within them, and show the certificate therein prescrib- 
ed, as the authority for the detention and removal. This is a 
full compliance with the law under which the owner puts forth 
his right to reclaim, and he is entitled to the benefit of it in this 
if in any case. 3. It is also objected, that there is no averment 
in the avowry of due proof before the recorder, that the plain- 
tiffowed service to the defendant under the laws of Louisiana. 
The act of congress provides, that " upon due proof to the 
satisfaction of such magistrate, that the person so seized or 
arrested doth owe service to the person claiming him or her, it 
shall be the duty of such magistrate to give a certificate, &c. 
All this is substantially averred in the avowry ; besides, the deci- 
sion of the magistrate and certificate is conclusive upon the fact 
as to the state court. 4. It is further objected, that the avowry 
does not state before whom the affidavit of the defendant was 
made. The view we have already taken of the case renders it 
unimportant to examine as to the regularity of the issuing of the 
habeas corpus. The act of congress provides that the proof 
upon which the certificate shall be granted, may be either by 
oral testimony or affidavit, and the averment that the recorder 
heard the proofs and allegations of the parties, is sufficient 
within this law. It will not be important to notice any further 
the formal objections, as they relate to proceeding under the 
statute of this state, which we have been compelled to put out 
of the case, after the fullest consideration. 



36 

SUPREME COURT. 

Jack, a Negro Man, \ 

vs. > Points for Plaintiff in Error. 

Mary Martin. J 

I. Congress had no power, under the constitution of the Uni- 
ted States, to legislate wpon the subject of fugitive slaves. 

II. If the act of congress on this subject be constitutional, 
the jurisdiction thereby conferred is limited, and extends only 
to fugitive slaves. 

III. A freeman who is taken up as a fugitive slave, has a 
right, at the common law, or under our statute, to the writ of 
homine replegiando. 

IV. The right of trial by jury, and to be protected from un- 
reasonable seizures and arrests, is secured by the constitution 
of the United States to every citizen of the United States. 

V. The court below ought not to have given judgment on 
the whole record, so long as there were issues undisposed of 
which might entitle the plaintiff to judgment. 

VI. The plaintiff in error, by the statutes of this state, be- 
came free, by reason of the defendant's becoming an inhabi- 
tant, resident, and citizen of this state. 

I 

VII. An officer of the state of New-York can only take such 
jurisdiction as our statute allows ; and the defendant, by apply- 
ing to a state magistrate for the remedy given by our law, has 
consented to be governed by the same throughout. 

VIII. There is nothing in the statutes of this state, declaring 
or effecting the emancipation of the plaintiff contrary to the 
constitution of the United States. 



37 

IX. The avowry in question was insufficient in various par- 
ticulars. 

1. It did not show by what law the defendant was entitled to 
the services of the plaintiff. The law should have been 
set forth. 

2. It did not state before whom the affidavit, laid before the 
recorder, was sworn. 

3. It does not show that due proof was made before the re- 
corder that defendant owed service. 

4. It did not name the agent who was authorized by the re- 
corder to take the plaintiff away. 

5. It does not show such certificate as the recorder had 
power to issue. 

R. SEDGWICK, 
D. D. FIELD, 

Of Counsel for PVff in Error. 



