


ABOUTlOftUlK 



• BEING A FURTHER 

EXPOSURE OF THE FALSE, 

AND MOST 

©^2f#EHO^TS AH© mtSQUmVQXIB 

BO €T MIMES 

AND - 
OF THE • 



BY" SUTM LEWIS, 
Author of the pamphlet entitled " Aholi- 

tioiiism l&eviewed, or the Question 

of Slavery 9 as It exists in the 

United States, considered." 



Published by order of the Executive Committee of the Censer* 
vative Association of Citizens of ■ Louisiana, 






res, ■ S'£? 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

The first five of the following numbers have been sent to the 
Editor of the Philanthropist, for publication in his paper — but 
whether he has published them or not, except the 1st No. the 
Author is yet uninformed. The rest are here first published. 
In preparing the manuscript for the press, the Author has made 
some slight alterations in those five numbers, but without mate* 
rially altering the arguments. 



ERRATA, 

*ag« 41m* 6 trwii thfrlop, for this read thua. 

" S J) 4 from the bottom, for were, read ar»i 
' » g » g '* for /Ae, read this. 

» 7 " 1 at the top for called, read call. 
" 8 " 6 from the top, for no, read not. 
s» » j» 3 from the bottom, for to, read too. 
" 15 *' 1 from the top, for sitting, read setting. 
*' 16 " 13 " f° r la> ws i rea <i 'aw. 

» 18 " " M f° r proceeding, read preceding 

Same line for gtr«, read give»» 
?* 17 » f7 '*' for yourself, read yourselves*, 

** 20 " € " fox prepare, read prepared. 

»' 5' » 7 " for <ri«f, read trow. 

5 * 22 " 9 from the bottom, for do, read be. 
?' 23 " 11 from the top, for Mow, read knew. 
*» " " 5 from the bottom for mostly, read merely- 
-" 24 " 5 from the top for more, read moreover. 

>» » " 20 " for thus, read this. 

»* 27 " 9 " between the words of and! i he % fticf ««r 

laws, and o. f 
*» 28 in line 7 and 28, for Gerry read Gerry. 
*» 29 line 15 from the bottom, strike out as, between i the words 
that, and tfie, and the word so, between 6 e, and ««#d^ 

»* 32 line 14 from the bottom, for equity, read equality. 

" 34 " 21 from the top, for see, read seen. 

» 41 »» 24 " for case read cases. 

» " . " 5 from the bottom, for previous, read previously. 

" 44 " 4 from the top for hut, read by. 

» 45 " 13 V for disingenius, re;ad disingenuoat. 

w 46 " 23 tor Atiow;, read kno wn. - 

" 47 " 20 u for dearing, read daring. 

J ' 47 " 10 from the bottom, for give, read gave. 

■»' 48 " 17 " f° r r *^ e ' rea< l ru ^°* 

" 54" 14 " f° r causes, read cases. 

«* 55 " 21 from the top, for thing read think. 

*«. 56 « 4 ** for me, read men, 

*< 68" 7 •' for incendiars, read ineenettrt, 

« 70 ** 13 " tor scemes, read schemet , / 



s 

No 1. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist , 

In your 20th No. I observed an article entitled '"Harmony 
of the measures of Abolition with inter-national law, and with 
the Federal Constitution ofthe United States," which the wri„ 
ter admits, requires that all " persons held to labour in one 
State" on their escaping into another " shall be delivered up on 
the claim of the party to wfyom such service or labour is due;" 
and he then admits, that " This_clause was inserted in order 
to secure the entire independence in the Slave holding States 
in this point, against all extrinsic Legislation;" against all leg- 
islation on this point by non-slavcholding States.* 

He admits also, that Congress possesses no power to legis«- 
late on this subject, within the slave holding States. He then 
admits that " not only does the Constitution secure to the mas* 
ter his assumed property against the legislative action of the 
free States, it also binds these States to aid him, when necessa- 
ry, to maintain his assumed rights," i. e. to aid in suppressing 
insurrection in the slave holding States — as well insurrections 
of our Slaves as any others; for so he himself interprets the artit 
cle of the Constitution, (which he quotes,) on this subject.— 
And then he adds his conclusion. " We have now," says he, 
" before us the two most important clauses of the Constitution 
in relation to Slavery; — the first guarantying the Slave holding 
States against a certain kind of legislation, in the power of the 
free States; and the second guarantying the slave holding States 
against the violence of their own Slaves." 

Now it is an obvious inference from what is here admitted, 
that the laws of the slave holding States are supreme^ on the 
subject of slavery ; for neither Congress, nor the free States can, 
consistently with the Constitution, control them by any legisla- 
tive action of theirs; and an equally clear and undeniable infer- 
ence is, that the United States, including alt the free States are 
by the Constitution, bound to respect those laws of the slave 
holding States, and to aid in enforcing them, by aiding to sup* 

* I should say that it does more; that it secures the right of 
the master to his slave. In fact he admits this afterwards, but, 
I suppose in order to weaken this right as much as possible by 
giving it a bad name, he calls it the " master's assumed" — an 
44 assumed right" of property. Now, a right secured hy the 
Constitution, is not merely an assumed right, (which is no right 
at all,) but a legal right* 



press all domestic violence:" in other words lo suppress every 
insurrection of our Slaves* 

This the writer seems to have felt, and that it was necessary 
to get clear of the ^admissions he wss constrained to make; 
otherwise his cause was lost. And how does he do this? Why 
it is this ! " Slave holders," says he, " have but one Constitu- 
tional security, and that is against all coercive interference. — 
This the Abolitionists have never denied, nor have they ever 
sought its destruction. But one security slave holders have not 
— " a security against the moral power of freemen." Indeed? 
A moral power? — to do what? Why it is a moral power to des» 
troy a right, which is secured to us by our laws, and by the 
Constitution of the United States; a right which the Constitu- 
tion binds the free States, and you yourselves, as their citizens, 
to aid in securing to usl Is this the " moral power" you talk 
of? — and which you tell us you are determined to wield, until 
you have actually accomplished the destruction of that right? 

This mom? power, I fear you do too fatally possess; but al- 
low me to ask, have you the moral right of using it, in the way 
you propose? I believe not; for according to my old fashioned 
way of thinking, every man in the nation is morally bound to 
obey the Constitution and laws of his country. 

Christians are, more especially, thus morally bound; or else 
the Apostle is wrong. " Submit yourselves" says he ( 1 Pet. 2. 
13.) to every ordinance of men for the Lord's sake." " For 
so is the will of God." Now, are not the Constitution, and 
laws of our country, among the " ordinances of men" intend, 
ed by the Apostle? But these it seems, you have, or, at least 
claim a moral power to disregard, and to destroy the rights se- 
cured by them ! Away then with this miserable evasion, un- 
worthy, as it is. of any man of common sense and common hon- 
esty. 

JLet us here learn a lesson from History. At the very time 
the Apostle wrote, millions of slaves were held by their masters 
in the Roman Empire^ and among these, both masters and 
slaves, were many Christians; this every one who is acquainted 
with history and with the New Testament, knows to be so. — 
Now those slaves were all held by virtue of the Roman laws; 
and those laws were the " ordinances of men." To those very 
Jaws then, by which myriads were held inslivery, the Apostle 
commands Christians of that day to submit themselves. His 
words arc u every ordinance of man," clearly including these 
laws. If then Christians of that day were bound to submit to 



those laws, how arathey released from their obedience to laws, 
exactly similar now? Surely the obligation remains now as it 
was then. But this writer proceeds to illustrate his arguments 
for the moral power he claims, by what he supposes lo be a. 
parallel case. He supposes, that instead of Slavery, as it now 
exists, Idolatry were established in the Southern States, by pro. 
visions in the Constitutor* exactly similar to those formed therein 
on the subject of slavery; and he then argues, that it would, 
nevertheless, be the bounden duty of all Christians to proclaim 
loudly and without ceasing, the, necessity of turning from dum 
idols to serve the living God." And so it would without the 
least doubt; but there is a little flaw in this illustration, that 
spoils all- It supposes Idolatry, and Slavery as we have it, to 
be ^identically the same. Whereas they are, in truth, radically 
different. Idolatry, in its very nature, is irreconcilably opposed 
to Christianity— Slavery is not, No Idolator can become a 
Christian, without ceasing to be an Idolator; a slave may 
become a truly s converted Christian, without ceasing to be a 
Slave: and in point of fact we have many thousand of our 
slaves, who are real Christians. And this fact proves that Sla- 
very may stand in perfect consistency with Chiistianity, Our 
Author's illustration then is as unfortunate as his argument, for 
his moral power. Both fall to the ground and prove nothing. 
Abolitionism my good sir, is not Christianity; and this I trust I 
shall e'er long be able to shew. s « L - 



No. a. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I have received your 32d No. in which you have done me the 
favor to publish my communication, adding to it your notes, 
containing, I presume, your answer to it. In those notes, aK 
low me to say, you have evaded, but not answered my argu- 
ment- . 

In order to avoid bewildering ourselves, I will here state the 
precise point in controversy, as I understood it' It is this 
1. I affirm, that the laws of the slave holding States authorise 
every freeman, within their limits, to purchase and hold slaves, 
and employ them in his service; and that those laws were sane- 
. tioned, and confirmed, by the Constitution of the United States. 
All this you admit. 2". I affirm, that the Constitution and laws 
just mentioned, gives to every slave-owner, a legal and Constu 



6 

tutional right to the peaceable, and undisturbed possession and 
use of his slaves. This is too clear to be denied. And 3, I 
affirm, that the Constitution of the United States binds every 
man in the free States, to respect those laws of the slave hold* 
ing States, and to leave every slave owner in the peaceable and 
undisturbed enjoyment of the right just mentioned. This also 
you have in effect admitted, by admitting, that the clause which 
requires l< all persons bound to serve, or labour in one State," 
on theirf'escapinginto another State shall be delivered up,&c." 
" was inserted, in order to secure the entire independence of 
the slave States, in this point, against all extrinsic legislation." 
For, if the Constitution thus forbids the people of the free 
States to disturb us, by any law past by their legislatures, will 
you contend, that it does not {forbid the same people, to disturb 
us without law? If it commands our fugitive Slaves to be de- 
livered up to us, by the people of the free States, as^you admit, 
does it not thereby acknowledge and enforce our right to the 
slaves? And does it not thereby require the same people to 
respect our right, and leave us in the quiet and undisturbed en- 
joyment of it.' These positions I think you will not venture to 
deny; And if this be so, it follows clearly. 4. That every act 
of the people, either of the free, or of the slave holding States, 
tending to disturb us in the enjoyment of the right in question, 
or to deprive us of it without our consent, is a plain arid poa. 
itine violation of the Constitution of the United States, and also 
of the laics of the Slave holding States. This last conclusion 
you deny, clear, and plain as it is. 

And you have " resolved, that slavery must be universally 
abandoned." You have formed numerous, and powerful asso* 
ciations, "whose avowed object is the extermination of Slavery 
in the Southern States;" and to effect that object, you are car' 
rying on with all your might, a course of hostile proceedings 
against us, which you yourselves have denominated war, as in 
truth and in fact it really is; and you have solemnly declared, 
that " there is no discharge in the war." — First annual report 
of the AntuSlavery Society of Maine, as stated by Mr. Shields 
a member of Congress, injiis speech in that body. 

Now I ask, by what authority you do these things? in the very 
teeth of the Constitution, and laws of your country, as they 
clearly are? Why, you plead the enormous hardships and cru. 
elties of slavery, as you are pleased to consider the matter, and 
solely for that cause, you are waging this war of extermination 



against us* I called it a war of extermination advisedly, for 
such it will certainly prove to be, in its result, if persisted in. 

And how is it, that you undertake to get clear of the obliga' 
tion, which the Constitution and laws so clearly bind upon you? 
A-Vhy, for that purpose, you have indeed found out something 
"new under the suh;" which you call "the moral power of 
freemen," and which you think sets you free from that obliga- 
tion. In vain we invoke the Constitution and laws of our coun- 
try, to protect us. These you set at naught, and tell us in plain 
terms, that " one security slaveholders have not — a security 
against the " moral pOwer of freemen!" — And pray tell us 
what that "moral power of freemen" is. I3 it regulated, or 
defined, Or limited, or at all restrained, by any law? No not in 
the least. Well, it is then a power perfectly lawless in its very 
nature. Is there no security against it be found in the Consti- 
tution, and laws of our country? No, not the smallest.' If so, 
it is a power to set aside, and destroy the Constitution and laws 
of our country; and to overturn and destroy all government, 
and all order, and all security, for life, for liberty, or for proi 
perty, — and then what follows? Why complete anarchy, — a 
thousand times worse than all the slavery in the world, and 
drawing in its train the entire destruction-of all freedom. And 
is this the power Abolitionists contend for? Is it the power by 
which they expect to introduce, and establish universal eman : 
cipation? Strange blindness ! if it be not something worse. 

Remember sir, I pray you, that another body of freemen, in 
the Sonth, possess the same moral power, and will certainly 
avail themselves of it; not, as you do, against the Constitution 
and laws of our country, but in favor of them; and consequent- 
ly in favor of government and order; but against the lawless 
power you contend for; and, if you persist, these two moral 
powers must come in conflict. Indeed, they are so already; 
and if pursued much farther, this contest must, m JJie nature 
of things, inevitably become a contest of physical power. If 
you will not suffer the Constitution and laws to protect us, you 
thereby drive us to the dire necessity of protecting ourselves, in 
the best way we can. And think you sir, that when you shall 
have driven on your moral power to this result, you will be 
able to step its course when, and where you please? that you can 
break down all the provisions of the Constitution and laws, by 
which our slaves are secured to us, and stay its course just 
there? You might as well undertake to stop the whirlwind, or 
hush the storm into silence. Will you invoke the laws to stop 



its course? In vain: It is a power above all law, and will laugh 
at all your efforts to control it. 

Recollect also, that there is still another class of freemen, and 
a numerous one too, who may, and it is not without example 
that they should, e'er long, take it in their heads, that it is an 
abomination no to be borne with, that a few men should be 
rich, while they, and so many others, are poor; and they may 
set themselves to correct the evil. Now sir, they also possess 
the same u moral power of freemen;" and the very principle 
upon which you act, would completely bear them out in em- 
ploying that power, regardless of all law, to accomplish their 
object, I repeat, in contending for this " moral power," you 
are contending for the very essence of anarchy. 

I shall now proceed to notice some of your notes. You tell 
us, note 2, that by moral power, you mean nothing more than 
the moral force of truth, to "persuade" us to do what you 
think is right. Indeed ! When you tell us, that " slavery 
must be universally abandoned," whether we will or not; — 
when you tell us, that this must be done, regardless of the con- 
sequences, however fatal and destructive these may be; — 
while, „in order to compel us to submit to your will in this, you 
are wielding your " moral power of freemen" against us, with 
such violence that you yourselves denominate it war;— while 
you are boasting that against that " moral power" neither the 
Constitution nor the laws of our country affords us any securi- 
ty; and declaring that " there is no discharge in the war;"-— 
while, against our earnest remonstrances, you are printing, 
and scattering among us, to the utmost extent of your power, 
your thousands of papers, prints, and pamphlets, filled with the 
most unmeasured abuse of every man who owns a slave; and 
with the most inflamatory appeals to the passions and prejudices 
of our slaves, — appeals eminently calculated to excite the most 
deadly hate between them and their owners, and to instigate 
them to rise in insurrection, and murder, not only their mas» 
ters,but their innocent wives and children, — do you call all this 
mere persuasion? — Yes, in one sense, it is indeed persuasion,— 
it is persuasion to our slaves to do the most diabolical mischief; 
and persuasion to of the most powerful kind: but in any other 
meaning of the term, it is an insult to common sense to call it 
mere persuasion. 3. L. 



9 

No. 3. 

To th* Editor of the Philanthropist. 

1 resume the notice of your notes. Your supposition (note 
1) that the slave holding States " may, at their own pleasure, 
pass laws of such severity that the slaves cannot bear them" — 
44 so intolerable, that they must necessarily be goaded to insure 
rection," is gratuitous, and insulting; and proves nothing, but 
your ignorance of the true character of the people of thoso 
States, Nor are we calling on you to " stand with arms in 
your hands," to suppress insurrections of our slaves; though 
the Constitution cleaily binds you to do so, if the case should 
require it; which you do not, and cannot deny. All we ask of 
you at present is, to to let us and our slaves alone^ and cease to 
stimulate, and excite them to insurrection, as you are now do* 
ing, by your inffamatory publications. 

You plead "the freedom of speech, and of the press." Does 
that freedom warrant you in sending your firebrands among 
us, thereby insulting the whole people of the South, treating 
them as man>stealers, the worst of thieves, as no better than 
high way robbers, (note 8,) exciting insurrection, and thus jeop- 
ardizing the lives of thousands? Really, methinks, a mors 
wicked abuse of that freedom cannot easily be conceived., 

You undertake, (note 3,) to distinguish between " obedi* 
ence," and " submission" to human laws, — a distinction, cer. 
tainly, without a difference. To say that you can refuse to 
obey a law, and at the same time, and in the same case submit 
to it, is a flat contradiction: and so it is, to say, that you can re* 
fuse to submit to a law, and at the same time, and in the same 
case 0^2/ it. And yet, to this poor shift are you driven, in 
seeking to evade the force of my argument, drawn from the 
command to" submit yourselves to every ordinance of man;" 
among which " ordinances of men," you acknowledge the 
Constitution and laws of our country to be included, and " in- 
tended by the Apostle." The command then clearly binds 
you to " submit yourselves," (and, which we have just seen 
is the same thing,) to obey, not only the Constitution of tha 
United States, but all the laws of the particular States, in every 
case to which they apply; all those, including the laws of tha 
slaveholding States, as well as the others, being clearly within 
the purvieu and meaning of the command; — they are clearly 
among the" ordinances of men." 

But the Constitution and laws protect slave owners; and this 
you cannot bear to 3ubmit to; and you resort to another fallacy 



10 . 

to get clear of it. You say, " it will" be difficult to prove," 
with the requisite certainty, " that any convert to Christianity 
in their (the Apostles) time, continued a slaveholder," (note 5.) 
Not so difficult as you imagine. 

Besides, whether it can be proven or not, is of no conse. 
quence at all, in this argument. If christians did not continue 
slaveholders, the heathen certainly did; and these were protect* 
ed by the Roman laws, which you admit were " ordinances of 
men," within the true intent and meaning of the command. — 
They were then clearly protected by the command in holding 
their slaves under those laws. Now, to hold slaves under those 
Koman laws was either reconeileable with Christianity, or, it 
was not. If reconeileable, then christians might hold them, and 
were protected by the command and by the laws, in so doing, 
just as other men were. If not, as you contend, then, by wilt 
fully continuing to hold them, they renounced Christianity, and 
again become as the heathen, and thus they were still within 
the same protection- ' 

But I consider it clear and certain, that some, at least of 
those early converts, did continue slaveholders; and this is prov-* 
•d by the writings of St. Paul himself. In his epistle, 1 Tim, 
6, 1, 2 he says, " Let as many servants as are under the yoke, 
count their masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God, 
and his doctrine be not blasphemed: and they that have believ* 
ing masters, let them not despise them because they are breth- 
ren; but rather do them service, because they are faithful and 
beloved, partakers of the benefit," I am no Grecian, but the 
ablest critics assure us, that the original greek word here trans. 
Jated "servants," in its true, literal, and proper meaning, signi- 
fies slaves, and that the word translated " yoke" signifies the 
state of Slavery. I am aware tl?at some warm Abolition 
critics have attempted to evade the force of this passage against 
them, by saying, that the word which is translated masters, is 
to be understood to mean " heathen masters of christianized 
slaves;" as if none but such heathen masters were spoken of in 
the text; whereas the Apostle speaks expressly of" believing 
masters/' i. e. masters who were christians, not in name only, 
but real christians, who " are faithful and beloved, partakers 
of the benefit." 

Such masters then there certainly were, else surely the Apost 
tie never would have spoken of them as he has done in this pas- 
sage. To deny this is to make nonsense of all this part of the 
passage. It would be to suppose the Apostle to be gravely, 



11 

and seriously giving directions, regulating the conduct of men, 
in a relation, which did not exist. And it is equally clear, that 
tne relation of master and slave is, in this passage, allowed tc> 
exist, the master being a christian: For the passage shews that 
the Apostle had the case of the " believiag master'* and his 
slaves directly under his consideration, and, far from com* 
rnanding th^rmaster to emancipate his slaves, he commands the 
slaves to " count their own masters worthy of all honor," and 
to " do them service." Is there a man living then, who can 
believe, that if the Apostle had considered that relation as irre.. 
concileable with Christianity ,and consequently that it was a sin 
for the Christian master to hold his slaves, that he would not 
have told hifn so? that he would not at once have commanded 
all such masters to put away their sin, by immediately emanci* 
pating their slaves? especially when we consider* that by not 
doing so, the Apostle himself would have incurred the guilt of 
being unfaithful in the discharge of his duty? The supposition 
is too absurd to be believed. It is then certain that some at 
least of those early converts didcontinne slaveholders. 
" But the proof stops not here. In writing tcrTitus, the same 
Apostle again had the case of slavery directly under his consid* 
eration, chap. 2, 9. " Exhort servants," says he, " to be obe^ 
dieht to their own masters, and to please them well in all things; 
not answering again; not purloining, but shewing all good fidel- 
ity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour," — 
Dr. A. Clarke, in his note on this passage says," "The Apos* 
tie refers to those who were slaves^ and the property of their 
masters." Here again slaves are expressly mentioned, and 
commanded to be obedient to their own masters;" and no disc 
tinction is made, between heathen and " believing masters," 
as there certainly would have been, if the Apostle had 
considered it. a sin for christians to bold slaves: Otherwise 
this passage would be a snare to them, to lead them into sin* 
To have failed to guard his converts against such a sin, in a 
passage affording so strong an implication of its being lawful 
for them to hold slaves, would have been unfaithfulness, and 
consequently sin, in the Apostle himself. Taking the two pas- 
sages above quoted together then, we see, that in them, slavery 
is expressly allowed to txist; and by the former, Christians, as 
well as all other men, are expressly allowed to hold slaves.* 

* Connect this with the arguments in my Review of Aboli* 
tionism, p. 15, and in my 1st No, and the proof, that the scrip. 



And in perfect accordance with this, the same Apostles says, 
1 Cor. 7, 21. » Art thou called being a servant? care not for 
it; but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather." The same 
learned author, in his note on this passage, sets down part of 
the original, and then explains the passage as follows, " Art 
thou converted to Christ while thou art a Slave? the property 
of another person, and bought with his money, care not for it; 
this will not injure thy christian condition.'" And*we may the 
more safely rely on his interpretation, as he was certainly no 
friend to slavery, And besides all this, in my u Review of Abo« 
litionism," it is shewn, I think conclusively, that the law given 
to the Jews, Levit. 25, 44, 46, by which they were authorised 
to buy and hold slaves, ps yet in force among christians, — -nay 
the passages justlnow cited clearly prove the same thing. 

Now sir, with theses authorities in our favor, I think you treat 
us rather unkindly, when you accuse us with being mamsteaU 
ers, as is done in your 33d No. We, in the South, deem it a 
false accusation; and I cannot but believe, that the authorities 
just cited, prove it such. 

You should sir, I think, have known my sentiments a little 
better, before you indulged in your sneer at what you are pleas, 
ed to call " my zeal for scriptural slavery" 1 have now told 
you what I find in the scriptures concerning slavery, and what 
I think those scriptures mean. The slavery I contend for as 
lawful, is not that scene of barbarity, of hardship, and cruelty 
you misrepresent all slavery to be. It is that which the scrip* 
tures warrant, — that which is regulated and governed by the 
rules prescribed by the Apostles, for the government of mas. 
ters and servants: and of this, whatever you may think of the 
matter, there are many examples in the Southern States. There 
are sir, u believing masters" among us, strange as it may sound 
in your ears; and with these, slavery is stripped of all, or nearly 
all its hardships. .■ And this may point cut to you the true means 
of removing, or alleviating those hardships. Be assured sir, it 

tures do authorise slavery, r as it is in our country, is, I think 
complete: I mean the argument founded on the command,— 
»' Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's 
sake." A command which clearly binds all men, to submit to 
all the laws of the State, of every description, and a command 
too, that was given at the very time, when there were millions 
of slaves, held in slavery under the Roman laws, exactly as our 
slaves are held under our laws. 



is not by railing against all slavery in the lump; nor by invective 
and abuse, heaped upon all masters indiscriminately, whether 
they be good or bad, humane or cruel, to their slaves; nor by 
your incendiary publications, that such a good work can be 
done. No, if you are really what you profess to be, philan- 
thropists, and christians, preach Abolitionism no longer; but 
preach the gospel, and teach and persuade masters, and slaves 
also, to become real christians; and then you will lay the axe 
to the root, and destroy the cause of all those hardships; and 
the evil will of course cease* In this way, (but in no other is 
it possible,) you will prepare masters for voluntarily emancipa- 
ting their slaves; and, what is of indispensible necessity, you 
will prepare the Slaves, and fit them for the enjoyment of free' 
dom: whereas, if you knew what our slaves really are, you 
would not need to be toM, thai in their present vicious and dej 
praved state of moral feelings, to turn them loose from the au- 
thorty of their masters, would be to turn loose more than two 
millions of worse than savages, to commit all manner oi disor' 
ders and wickedness. 

Such, sir, are my views upon this interesting subject. And 
now let me add, that in our consciences we believe we are right 
in this matter. You may think us wrong. Aie you our legi- 
timate judges in this case! Who made you such? And 1 yet 
you have boldly arraigned, tried, and condemned us: and you 
are waging a war of extermination, (such it must prove to be 
in its results, if persisted in,) in order to compel us to submit 
to your decision ! Do you remember another command?— 
" Judge not least ye be judged." And again, " Who art thou, 
that judgest another man's servant? To his own master he 
standeth or falleth." S. L. 

No. 4. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I shall now have a word to say to the Rev. Hezekiah John, 
son; and first of his arguments drawn from scripture- He 
thinks slavery is " oppression," and as such, forbidden by the 
scriptures. The answer is short, and decisive. Slavery, un» 
der the regulations prescribed by the Apostles, is expressly 
permitted.hy the scriptures. See this proven in my 3d No. It 
cannot therefore be forbidden, as oppression, nor forbidden at 
all; for that would be to make the scriptures forbid it, and at the 



14 

game time, permit it, and thus contradict themselves; which is 
inadmissible. His error lics4n this. ASS power, or authority, ia 
the hands of men, is liable to be abused, the authority of mas* 
ters over their slaves among the rest. Now he confounds the 
abuse of the master's power, with the right use of it; which is 
nothing more than the right use of a lawful authority; and, that, 
certaiiy, is not oppression forbidden by the scriptures. 

He cites also the command, "Thou shall love thy neighbour 
as thyself;" and that other, 4i Do unto others as you would they 
ehoufd do unto you:" and again, " Proclaim liberty throughout 
the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof '-— " brea& every yoke, 
let the oppressed go free.* * All of which, on his construction 
of them, involve the same eontradietion; his construction of 
ihera therefore is inadmissible. 

Again, he cites Detit. $3. $5. u Thou shall not deliver unto 
his master, the servant that i§ escaped from his master unto 
thee; he shall dwell with thee, &c." This again, as he com 
strues it, involes the Sam© contradiction; and is moreover utter* 
ly at war with the passage, Levit 25, 44, 46, by which the 
Jews were authorised to buy 4 * bondmen/ 5 i. e. slaves, from 
*« the heathen that were round about them," and to " inherit 
them for a possession" to "be their bondmen foever." On 
his construction, these two conHicting laws would have been a 
source of endless contention, and discord, among this people. 
The passage therefore, must be understood as applicable to 
none but servants, escaping from their master® m foreign coun* 
tries, — servants whose claim of freedom did not infringe the 
right ©f any Jew, as established by their laws. 

He quotes also Exod. 21, 26, 27, H If a man smite the eye 
of his servant, or the eye of his maid" or " smite out his man 
servants tooth, he shall let him go free." So I suppose, that 
according to his logic, whether a man " smite his servants eye, 
&G." or not, he is to let him go freet ! Such trifling is ridi- 
culous, But as if he had knocked his opponent down, he ex- 
claims, l lWhat! a man to loose from two to eight hundred doli 
Jars, tor the simple offence of smiting out a tooth !" Yes sir, 
a man may loose eight hundred dollars, and more, for an of- 
fence of that kind, which our laws in Louisiana punish severely; 
and, strange as you may think it, 1 have known that very law 
put in execution. Abolitionists should know better, what the 
real condition of our slaves is, before they proceed to throw 
their poisoned darts at us. 

Before I quit this part of the subject^ I beg leave to put a case 



15 

to my Reverend opponent Jf sir, a man were foawid sitting 
fire to your house, while yourself and your family are asleep 
in it, — would he be doing unto you, as you would he should do? 
Well sir, you are doing unto us, if not literally this veiy thing, 
at least that which inevitably leads to it, and must, to a moral 
certainty, produce it, unless you disist. Your essay itself, which 
I am now reviewing is an act of that kind. It is a perfect/re- 
brand you have thrown, with your thousands of others like it, to 
be scattered among us. Perhaps you consider our slaves as 
somebody, and ourselves as nobody ',■ — that-against us, no injury 
can be done. 

I shall now notice some of his other arguments. He sets out 
by saying that slavery is a popular sin" — " a flagrant crime;" 
and yet, in the next breath he says, M he is satisfied that many 
good men are slaveholders." Good men, are they? and yet 
guilty of a flagrant crime? 

" The principle of Slavery," he says, "is that man may have 
property in man." If by " principle" he means the cause of 
of slavery he is mistaken. It is one of the incidents of Slavery, 
not its cause. Slavery, as I have elsewhere observed, has its 
cause in the inherent vices of human nature. Nor can slavery 
ever be the cause of that u universal strife" he talks about, as 
he thinks it will. On the contrary, that very strife, whenever 
it occurs, is caused by the vicious passions of mankind; and 
whenever it becomes general in any country, it necessarily 
results in slavery, as its natural effect. Slavery is the calm 
of despotism, a settled order of things; and is, in its very 
nature, a refuge from the miseries incident to that state of "uni« 
versal strife" of which our author supposes it to be the cause- 
But despotism as it is, as it falls exclusively on one distinct class 
of people, in our country, so it never can destroy the liberties 
of the other, so long as the present order of things is maintain, 
ed. Let our author then be ware how he labours to break np 
the present settled order of things, least, when the laws that now 
protect us are broken down, that very state of anarchy, or "uni- 
versal strife" he talks of, should ensue, as I think it certainly 
would, and result in destroyhng the liberties of the free, instead 
of giving freedom to the slave. 

u God made man to be free'" said our author. Yes, and to 
be virtuous too, as the sole condition, on which it is possible for 
him to be free. Freedom to vicious men, is treedom to do mis* 
chief. To our slaves in the South, it would be freedom to 
bring on ruin, not on their masters only but on themselves also 



10 

m Tho slave states," he says, * are in continual danger of 
insurrection among their slaves;"— and this he says, while he 
is pursuing a course of conduct in the highest degree calculated 
to excite them to insurrection! His very polite and philantro- 
pic charge of man-stealing, is answered in my 3d No. And 
now for his statement of the grounds on which he says we rely. 
These he states to be, ' 

First, That " the Bible sanctions slavery." Certainly it does: 
and to what extent, and on what conditions, is shown in my 3d 
No. before refered to. 

Second, That "power gives right." This is a mere fiction of 
his own brain. We §et up no such absurd claim. 

Third, That' 1 laws give right" Certainly it does. He for. 
gets that the Bible commands him, and every one else, to "sub- 
mit himself" to those very laws, those " ordinances of men," 
by which our slaves aie secured to us, Jst Peter 2. 13. But 
let us hear his argument* This plea he says, •* is the same a3 
the one immediately proceeding" (that power give right) 
"for," says he, u power makes laws; and if all laws are right it 
must be power that gives right." Put this argument into log* 
ical form and here it is« Power gives no right; The law is 
power; Therefore the low gives no right, — a sophism too con> 
temptible to deserve a serious answer, were it not, that it 
comes, indorsed with the signature of the accredited agents of 
Societies, already considerably numerous, and boasting the 
daily increase of their numbers; and where it not, that its prin* 
ciple, — that the law gives no right, — goes to the destruction 
of all laws, of all order, and if it prevails, must bring on com* 
pleat anarchy. If the law gives no right, pray tell me, what 
does give any right? 

Fourth, That " a white skin gives right." This is another 
fiction of his own brain. The blacks were not enslaved by us; 
they were already slaves, when first brought into our country, 
and have so continued ever since; and now, the difference of 
cast, opposes an insuperable obstacle to our emancipating 
them. See my Riview of Abolitionism. 

Fifth, That " wisdom gives right." This is a misrepresen' 
tation. We do indeed say, and so the truth is, that our slaves 
are totally unfit for self government: and hence the absolute ne- 
cessity of keeping them in subjection, as they are, The law of 
self preservation imperiously requires this of us. 

Sirth, That " there ja nothing in the Bible against slavery," 



17 

I have already sh6wn that the Bible expressly authorises sla* 
very as it is in our country. 

And now sir, admitting that there are'many Southern mas- 
ters, who disregard rules given by the Apostles, and treat their 
slaves with unjustifiable severity, or, if you please, cruelty-r' 
what is the remedy? and who is to apply \i? Not your Aboli« 
tion scheme, most assuredly;— not the putting forth, and en- 
forcing of doctrines, in their very nature, subservant of all law* 
as your doctrines certainly are; — nor yet by invective, and 
abuse, heaped indiscriminately, and without measure, upon 
every slave owner in the South, whether he be a humane or a 
cruel master, a christian, or an infidel. Such a course, and it 
is the very course you are pursuing, can have no other effect, 
than to exasperate, and render the evil worse, — far, very far 
worse. Nor yet do we allow that you are the men to apply the 
remed at all. On the contrary, I should real ly think, that your 
true course would be, yourself first of all, to " submit your- 
selves" to the laws, those " ordinances of men;" thus giving 
the example, which would strengthen you greatly, to persuade 
our bad masters to become real christians, and in their turn to 
comply with the 1 Apostle's commands, which as I before said» 
would at once take away all, or nearly all the harships of sla* 
▼ery. S. L. 

No. 5. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

You boast, in your 40th No. of 4t Indications of success," 
and you quote as illustration, the words of a missionay, who 
sayB, " This persecution only proves to my mind, that the king* 
dom of darkness see3 that light breaks in." The " light" of 
abolitionism, you think; is breaking in, and, like the pure light 
of the Gospel, must prevail over " the kingdom of darkness-'* 
i.e. over the present settled order of things, and produce uni* 
versal emancipation. " The father of Iie3," you say, will be 
u fiilled with great wrath," for he fears that " his time is short." 
So then, we need be at no loss to undertand who the master is, 
to whom you consign every man, who is not an abolitionist. — 
The prince of" darkness," no doubt, will feel obliged to you, 
for assigning so many subjects to him. 

In this passage you identify abolitionism with Christianity it* 
self, and you would persuad the world to believe, that opposii 
tion to the former, is no less iniquitous, than it is to the latter. 

3 



If 

f!&e then we meet you:— here we join issue with yoH. Ws 
put the ©cry rigft< il#eZf, to hold our slaves, in issue; and I can* 
not but believe, that in my former numbers, our right is com» 
pleatly vindicated. 

But the " crisis," you say, " will come." It will, I verily be« 
lieve, unless you desist from your abolition scheme. And what 
is that " crisis" to be? Why, it is to be a scene of lawless vio- 
lence, of civil discord, of civil war, in which thousands of human 
lives will be destroyed, and our country dessolated ! Such is 
the " crisis" you are, by your own confession, labouring to 
bring on: the first beginnings of which, you hail, as " Indiea. 
lions ofsuccCss,"inthework you are doing ! Is it the work of 
the Prince of Peace you are doing/ or some other Prince? — 
Strange, that tlje good people of the North, and of the West, 
do not see the deadly blow you are aiming at their liberties, in 
the work of mischief you are doing ! If they did, I am confident 
they would soon put an end to that mischief. 

But the u crisis," you think, is to result in universal emanci* 
pation. It is just as as likely sir, to result in turning the cur« 
rent of the Mississippi back to its source. Freedom never yet 
grew out of lawless violence, nor will it ever. On the contra* 
ry, such violence, becoming general, is the very means of des« 
troying all freedom. This all history, all experience proves. 
Go on then, if you are reckless enough of the consequences 
to do so, until the t% crisis" comes; and you will then have 
broken down the constitution and laws of our country, the only 
Bhield that now does, or can possibly protect the people against 
anarchy on the one hand and despotism on the other; — you will 
have broken up our union into fragments, and arrayed the 
whole South, and North against each other in deadly hostility; 
and will that give freedom to the slave? It is folly, it is absurd 
to think so. On the contrary, all experience proves that such 
a scene must end in military despotism. 

•' But you cry out" persecution." Who are the persecuted 
jo this case? We sir, in the South, profess ourselves to be a 
Christian people, not less so than the North are; and again we 
ask, who made you our judges, to condemn us, as fit subjects of 
the prince of" darkness?'* Who gave you authority to decide 
for us, the question of conscience, whether as christians, we 
may innocently hold Slaves? And yet you are preacing up a 
crusade against us, and jeopardising the lives of thousands in 
order to compel us to submit to your decision! And is not this 
persecution for consciences sake, you are carrying oil against 



your brethren! It is worse, it is a bloody war yoa are •liriag 
up between two great bodies of christian people. ^$§m| 

Once more then we call upon you to obey the divine com- 
mand,— to " submit yourselves to every ordinance of men" 
among which you acknowledge the constitution and laws of our 
country to be included, and " intended by the Apostle.'* If 
you will not, you will be responsible for all the fatal conset 
quences that must ensue. S. E»* 

No. e. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. m . 

In order to shew how absolutely false* your notion is, that the 
cause of Abolitionism is identical with the cause of Christianity, 
I will examine that question a little further. * 

The persecutions christians have been called to suffer, have 
undoubtedly promoted the cause of Christianity; and if aboli* 
tionism be idetical with Christianity, as you would have us be- 
lieve, persecution may promote that also. To test this. 

On what principle is it, that persecution favors the cause of 
Christianity? It is this. Christianity depends entirely, for its 
success, on the convincing power of the evidence, that proves it 
to be true, and of divine authority: and persecution produces, 
and shews that evidence, in the clearest and strongest light that 
can possibly be. When the christian martyr is seen calmly and 
serenely given up his life, in flames of fire at the stake, in obe- 
dience to his Saviors command, rather than deny him, or for- 
sake him; it is natural for such a scene to produce conviction, 
in all who behold it, that the religion for which such a sacrafice 
is made, and which carries the sufferer triumphantly through it, 
must be true,— that it must be divine: and thus believers are 
added to the church, and Christianity spreads and increases. 

Consider next the motive, that engages men to embrace 
Christianity, at the hazard of encountering persecution, and of 
suffering death itself, as the martyrs have done. Eternal hapr 
piness, or misery, is the alternative; and that presents a motiv© 
altogether irresistible, when Christianity is fully believed. But 
to him who does not thus believe, it offers no motive at all to em. 
brace it. It is then the evidence, that christians give, by their 
patient, and voluntary endurance of sufferings, of the truth, and 
divine authority of their religion, that that causes Christianity to 
flourish and increase. But this evidence abolitionism has not 
to give, nor has it any'such motive to offer. 



20 

Christians, you will not deny, are bound to endure sufferings, 
even unto death, rather than renounce their religion; fc and that 
on pain of eternal ruin. If this be so, and Abolitionism be, as 
you represent it, idential with Christianity, abolitionists must be 
equally bound to suffer in the cause of abolitionism* Are .any 
of youthen prepare, to give this proof of the truth, and divine 
authority of your doctrines? I trust not. 

Let us sppose some one ot your most zealous and determin- 
ed abolitionists to be caught, by those " enemies of righteous* 
ness" called slaveholders- They offer him the alternative; sir, 
you must renounce abolitionism;— wo do not require you to 
join M£, and become slaveholders, nor are we about to punish 
you for any thing you have already done; but you are simply to 
renounce abolitionism; or, you shall be burnt to death at the 
stake: How would he reason with himself, in that case? Why, 
slavery, he would say, is sin, according to my creed; — that is 
clear. Bat am I guiltyfioi that sin? No; I abhor slavery: It 
is these slaveholders that are guilty. But how does their 
sin affect me? Why, not at all, unless I make myselt, by some 
act of mine, partaker of their sin. Have I done this? No: 
I have never consented to their sin, but opposed it: I have 
"rebuked" them for it, that I might "not suffer sin upon them:'* 
I have done more, I have called witnesses to testify against 
them; but they would not hear. I have told it also tb the church: 
but neither would they hear the church. What more then am 
I commanded to do? Nothing, but to do as our Lord directs, 
"Let them be unto me as heathen men, and publicans." Matt, 
18, 15, 17. This also I am willing to.do. Am I then clear, 
if I renounce abolitionism? Yes, perfectly clear, God has said, 
" If thou warn the wicked of his way, to turn from it, if he do 
not turn from hss way, he shall die in his sin; but thou hast de« 
livered thy soul." Ezek. 33, 9. Away then with abolitionism, 
would certainly be his conclusion. 

If this argument be sound, (and let him answer it who can,) 
it proves, 1. That your notion of abolitionism's being identical 
with Christianity, is utterly false, — that a man may renounce 
abolitionism, without thereby renouncing Christianity, and with, 
out violating, in the slightest degree, any of his christian duties. 
2. And hence, it proves, that abolitionism affords no such mo* 
tjve, it promises no such reward, as Christianity does, for vol* 
untarily and patently submitting to persecution for its sake; but 
leaves the strongest motives this world can afford, in full force 
against it, Persecution therefore, or even martyrdom itself, 



21 

'were it possible for it to be patiently, and voluntarily suffered, 
in the cause of abolitionism, would not prove it to be the duty 
of any man, or for his interest, to become an abolitionist. It 
would indeed prove nothing, but the folly, or madness of the 
sufferer, and, that for a man to become an abolitionist, at the 
hazard of such persecution, would be worse than folly, — it 
would be madness. Put abolitionism to this test, and I believe 
it would soon disappear from the face of the earth. That ''cri- 
sis" therefore, which you say " will come," will be no other 
than a scene of violence, and of mischief, as opposite, in its na« 
ture, to persecution for Christianity's sake, as darkness is to 
light, or as hell is to heaven. And 3, The argument proves, 
that when you have warned* slaveholders of their sin, (and 
surely you have more than sufficiently warned them of it, if it 
be sin,) you have then done all that you have any warrant of 
scripture for doing. All you are doing, therefore, beyond that, 
is without warrant or authority! and consequently, you will be 
responsible for all the consequences that must ensue; and how 
horrible these consequences must be, I need not here repeat. 
See my last number. S. L. 



* Note by the author. Will you reply to this, and say — Why 
this is all we are doing; — we do nothing more than rebuke 
slaveholders for their sin? -I 'answer. The ApostlSs com. 
mand is, " Let as many servants," — you know sir, the original 
Greek is, u Let as many slaves, as are under the yoke, count 
their own masters worthy of all honor:'' — But you are teaching 
them to count their own masters man- stealers, the worst of 
thieves, and as no belter than high-way robbers! Again, the 
Apostle commands them to " be obedient unto their own mast 
ters," — and to " do them service." See my 3d No. But you> 
by your inflammatory appeals to their passions and prejudices, 
are exciting them to revolt, to rise in fury, and murder their 
masters, with their innocent wives and children! Call you this 
nothing more than to rebuke^us for our sin? or, is it commit- 
ting sin? Think on this sir, I pray you, and if you find that it 
is, receive this note, as itjis really inten4ed, — as a friendly ad- 
monition, from one whose duty it is, no less than it is'yours, to 
" rebuke his brother, and not suffer sin upon him." 



m 

If o. 7. 

To th* Editor of the Philanthropist. 

lhave received your " Narrative of the Jate rioutous pre* 
ceedings against the liberty of the press in Cincinnatti," pub« 
lished " by the Executive Committee of the Ohio Anti-Slavery 
Society," on which I shall make a few remarks. 

And first, its title page contains a small error, — " the liberty 
of the press; — it should have been, the abuse of that liberty.— 
See my essays No. 2 and 3 for proof of this. 

In page 5, from a long, and elaberate argument, which 
proves nothing to the purpose, the Author concludes, that 
41 from these considerations it is believed, that in the formation 
of the present government, no guarantee of Southern Slavery, 
either constitutional, or implied, was once thought of; none 
was demanded— none was offered." It is belived sir, in the 
South, that the very reverse of this conclusion is true; and that, 
without such a guarantee, the Southern States never would 
have agreed to adopt the constitution of the United States. — 
This, I believe, can be fully proven. But, waving this for the 
present, what is decisive of the question is, that the constitution 
does contain such a guarantee,; and this you have admitted. In 
your 20th No. after reciting the provisions of the constitution 
on this subject, you admit, that " this clause (in the 4th Artu 
tide,) was inserted, in order to secure the entire independence 
of the Slave States on this point." It is true, you strive, in the 
same sentence to limit and destroy that " entire independence,'* 
by adding the words, u against all extrinsic legislation," asif the 
people of the free States, though prohibited by the constitution 
from violating, or in any wise infringing this " entire indepen* 
dence," by any act of their Legislatures, might yet proceed to 
do the same thing without law? Have the people of the free 
States, of themselves, think you, a right to disregard, and in- 
fringe the laws of the Southern States on this subject? Such a 
right would at once destroy that "entire independence," which 
you admit; — it would do worse, — it would destroy those pro* 
visions of the constitution, by which that " entire indepen. 
dence" is secured. Such a claim is prepostrous; — it is worse- 
it is in the very teeth of the constitution, — a plain and palpal 
ble violation of that " Supreme law of the land." 

Yet, indirect violation id f those provisions of the constitu- 
tion, you are violating the laws of the Southern, or if you like 
the term better, slavefcolding states, by every publication that 
issues from your press. Our laws' sir, punish severely every 



93 

attempt to excite insurrection among our bIatcs; and there *a 
•carcely one of your papers, triat is not, in its very nature eniJ 
tendency, such an attempt- And Tor this you plead the obliga* 
tions of Christianity; though nothing can be more certain, than 
that such an insurrection would cause the destruction of the 
lives of thousands of human beings! Is this doing to us. what 
you would we should do unto you? Nay, Jt is obviously a fla* 
grant violation of that rule. Sir I repeat, it is impossible for us 
to emancipate our slaves, circumstanced as we are, without 
involving ourselves, and them along with us, in utter ruin: and 
this if you know any thing of our real situation you would know 
to be so. 

In page 9, the writer portrays in frightful colours, what he is 
pleased to call " the reign of terror," which, he says, u was 
introduced into the South last summer, by the sudden and pub» 
lie execution of five American' Citizens"— u by the open plun- 
dering of the National Mail" — ;t by numberless cruel and un- 
authorized scourgings" — " by offering rewards for the forcible 
abduction of inoffensive citizens," — " by the unconcealed, the 
open and illegal hangings, &c. — all which, he ascribes, to 
** the tender mercies of infuriated slaveholders" — to their 
u thirst for blood, and for the destruction of eveiy safeguard 
heretofore established for the protection of individual right." 
This is the language you employ — to persuade us, is it? — to do 
"what you think right ! s 

Now, I am not the advocate, nor the apologist of this law- 
less violence* No man disapproves of it more than I do. But 
it is fair to state facts. The story in this case, has its counter- 
part, and this, our author has forgot to state. The " plunder 
ingofthe National Mail" so horrible in hig sight, was merely 
the stopping, and suppressing of your incendiary ?]yes sir,incen. 
diary publications; — they certainly are such, in their very na- 
ture, when scattered among such a population as ours is.—- 
Now, far from there being any thing illegal in this, the circular 
tion of such papers among us, as I have before said, is a crime 
severely punished by our laws; and those laws too, as we have 
before seen, are sanctioned by the constitution of the United 
State. Then, as to the " executions," and " hangings:" — 
Some of the men who were executed, may have been mosely 
41 professed gamblers." But it has been stated, and, so far as 
I know, never contradicted, that in Mississippi, where these 
proceedings took place, a deep laid and extensive conspiracy 
had been formed, to raise a general insurrection of the slaves, 



94 

which was within two or three days of the time fixed for it ex» 
plosion, when it was" discovered; and it was said to be almost 
■universally believed by the people, that the publications of the 
abolitionists had been the chief, if not the sole cause, by which 
that conspiracy was instigated and encouraged: and it is more 
sai<Ho have been clearly proved, that the men who were exe- 
cuted, or some of them at least, were the f rime leaders in that 
conspiracy. Here then you see the cause of those summary, 
and violent proceedings. They were resorted to, as the only 
possible means of self preservation, against an insurrection, 
which the dangerous, and mischievous publications of your abo- 
lition associates had stirred up; and which, but for the timely 
discovery of it, must have spread dessolation and death through, 
out the State. And could you expect the people to be alto* 
gether calm, with the knife at their throats, as they were, or at 
least as they universally, and fully believed they were? If you 
do, you give us credit for more forbearance than belongs to 
human nature. Such scenes of violence are the natural and 
necessary consequen«e of your proceedings; — here you see 
some of their fruits; and thus, I should think, might admonisrr 
you of the nature of the work you are doing. 

And, to shew that these scenes of violence do really spring 
from your abolition procedings, I refer to your pamphlet iU 
self, which is now before me. The people of Cincinnati are 
not "infuriated slaveholders:" and yet, so deeply were thtp 
convinced of the fatal mischief you are stirring up, that, seeing 
no other means of putting a stop to your proceedings, they too 
have reluctantly adopted the same summary mode of proceed* 
ing; and in that way tbey, destroyed your press, the engine 
with which you were doing the mischief; and, much to their 
credit, there they stopped. And this shews, that it was not 
a wicked disposition to riot, that animated them in this trans* 
action, as you charge them, but a spirit of just indignation, 
(carried indeed to an unwarrantable excess,) at the obstU 
nacy with which you persisted in you mischievous work,— 
Discord, dissension, and civil commotions, leading to violence, 
I repeat are the natural and necessary consequences of the 
work you are doing; of which this work in Cincinnati, and that 
of the last summer in Mississippi, are striking examples. 

And there is yet another fatal effect of your proceedings, 
which is also plainly to be seen. Already have they had the 
effect of alienating the affections of the whale body of free peo- 
ple of the South, from those of the North, and that to an alarnti 



S3 

log degree;?— they have don© mors;- tbey hate greatly ta> 
paired, and are rapidly destroying all our confidence io the 
people of the North. Before you began your war against us, 
Northern men, coming among us, were hailed as friends; — now 
they are looked upon with jealousy, and suspecion, least they 
should be concealed emissaries of yours: A spirit of resent- 
ment, and indignation at your proceeding also is manifesting it- 
self, and appears to be universal throughout the South, and ks 
felt the more keenly, as every one considers the injury you are 
doing to us, as altogether gratuitous, and unprovoked. A few 
more of your efforts, and it requires not tbe spirit of prophesy 
Io foresee, that you must, and will produce a breach between 
these two great sections of our country that never can be heal* 
«<L S. L* 

No. 8. 

T& the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I proceed to review your Narrative a little further. The ao* 
t&or has called up the names of "Jay, Rush, ^Madison and 
Gerry," and even that of the great Washington, and seems to 
think their authority bears you out in your proceedings. Not 
so, as we shall presently see. 

In this paper I shall confine my observations to tne eentp 
Sients of Washington alone, and afterwards notice the rest.-* 
Washington's views on the subject in question, may be seen in 
his letter to Robert Morris, 12th April, 17-86* printed among 
bis Writings, vol. 9. p- 158: and, least I should be accused of 
miss'stating it, or of stating it partially, I will here transcribe 
the whole letter. It is as follows:— 

u Dear Sir, — I give you the trouble of this letter at the iot 
staneeof Mr. Dalby of Alexandria, who is called to Philadeh 
phia to attend, what fie conceives to be a vexatious law suif, 
respecting a slave of his, whom a society of Quakers in that city, 
formed for such purposes, have attempted to liberate. The 
merits ofthe case will no doubt appear upon trial: From Mr. 
Dalby's statement of the matter, it should seem that this socie, 
ty is not only acting repugnantly to justice, so far as its con- 
duct concerns strangers, but, in my opinion impoliticly with 
respect to the State, the city in particular, without being able 
except by acts of tyranny, and oppression to accomplish its owi> 
ends. He says the conduct of this society is not sanctioned by 
law* Had the case been otherwise, whatever my opinioa o£ 



She law might ha?e bees, m$ respect for the pofiey \©f the graft 
■would' on this occasion, hsv® appeared in my silence? beeaussr 
against the penalties of promulgated Saw one may guard: but 
there Is no avoiding the snares of individuals, or private sociei 
ties. If the practice of this society, of which Mr. Dalby speaks,- 
H net discountenanced, none of those whose misfortune it is to 
have slaves for attendants will visit the city, if they can possibly 
avoid it) because;by so doing they hazards their property, or 
they must be at the expense (and this will not always succeed,) 
of providing servants of another description. 

41 1 hope it will not be conceived from these observations 
that it is my wish to hold the unhappy people who are the sub* 
ject. of this letter in slavery. I can only say, that there is not a 
man living who wishes more sincerely than I do, to see a plan 
adopted for the abolition of it; but there is only one proper and 
effective mode by which it can be accomplished, and that is by 
legislative authority; and this, as far as my suffrage will go, 
shall never be wanting. But when slaves who are happy and 
contented with their present masters are tampered with, and 
gedueed to leave them; when masters are taken unawares by 
these practices, when a conduct of this kind begets discontent 
"bn one side, and resentment on the other; and when it happens 
lo- fall on a man whose purse will not measure with that of the 
society, and he looses his property for want of means to defend 
it, is oppression in such a cause, and not humanity ia any; be« 
cause it introduces more evils than it can cure. 

u I will make no apology for Writing to you on this subject, 
Sor, if Mr. Dalby has not misconceived the matter, an evii ex* 
SSts which requires a remedy, if he has, my intentions have been 
good, though I may have been too precipitate in this address." 
The rest of the letter is merely complimentary. 

In another to Lafayette in the same volume, p. 164, he sayfc, 
•* To set the slaves afloat at once would, I really believe, be 
productive of much inconvenience and mischief; but by degrees 
it certainly might, and assuredly ought to be effected, and that 
toy legislative authority" 

Here then, we have the views of that great man, as he has, 
himself, expressed them; and we see, that he did indeed believe 
that slavery could, and ought to be abolished; but "'by de- 
grees," and that only u by legislative authority." Now this 
part of his views, (for it is only a part of them,) our author has 
chosen to- select, and hold it up to view» as if it was the whoU % 
while he carefully supprSseesyand keeps out of sight ever other 



■ . 

»r 

tentimeni and opinion expressed in the tame tetter? Buck is 
not the way to come at truth. 

That venerated man however tells us in the same letter, that 
" Whatever his opinions of the law might have been, his res* 
pect for the policy of the State" (whose law it was,) " would, 
on that occasion, have appeared by his silence.'* You, on lha 
contrary, while keeping yourselves at a safe distance, are wag. 
ging war (you yourselves have called it war) against us, in de- 
fiance of the Constitution of the United States also. He con- 
sidered the abolition society of Quakers of that day "as act* 
\ng repugnantly to justice, as far as it concerned strangers"— 
as " impoliticly with respect to the State," — as "an evil that 
required a remedy" — one that ought to be "discountenanced.'* 
You, our author tells us, are acting on the same " identical doc« 
trines" that they did. He speaks of" slaves who were happy 
apd contented with their present masters." Do you think there 
are none such? He thought, and knew, that there were thou- 
sands of them; else this clause had never appeared in his letter* 
He ihought, that to " tamper with" such slave, and "seduce 
them from their masters," and for " masters to be taken un~ 
awares by such practices," and especially when they loose their 
property" by such means, was an evil that " begets discontent 
on one side, and resentment on the^ther;" that" it is oppres* 
sion in such o case, and not humanity in any," " because,"— 
the very doctiine I contend for,- — "it introduces more evil 
than it can cure." Now your whole proceedings are, in their 
nature, and tendency, whatever you intend, the very worst kind 
of tampering with our slaves. He thought slaveryought to be 
abolished" by legislative authority," and in no other way.-— 
You are forming numerous, and powerful combinations against 
«s, with the avowed design to force abolition upon us, in defi. 
ance of all legislative authority. He " really believed," that 
" to set the slaves afloat at once, would be productive of much 
inconvenience and mischief." You are striving to force that 
measure upon us, regardless of the consequences. Thus wo 
seeMiat the authority of Washington is decidedly against you. 
Washington did indeed desire to see slavery abolished, but 
he saw the dificulty in the way of its being done, and desired to 
" see a plan adopted," by which it might be safely effected. — - 
But such a plan, even Washington himself never was able to 
devise; nor has the wisest statemen of our country — many of 
them as wise, and as good as ever lived on earth,— ever been 
able to devise one. As to your miscbievious abolition scheme* 



0t 

ft 1b plain, that the judgment of that great man hi utterly at wwt 
#itbit 8.L. 

No. 9. 

Tb *fo JSdetar o/tAe Philanthropist. 

I proceed further to review your " Narrative" in which, at 
observed in my last, the author invokes the authority of" Jay, 
Franklin, Rush, Madison, and Geivy, in support of your aboli* 
tion scheme. 

And first, of Mr. Madison: — He was," I believe, himself a 
slave-holder, to a considerable extent, and continued such to 
the day of his death, without liberating his slaves; and hence 
it is certain that he must have judged it right for himself, and 
consequently, for any other man, under the circumstances in 
which our country is placed, to hold them. He, I believe, like 
the gieat Washington, did desire to see universal emancipation 
take place. But even his great and luminous mind, never was 
able to devise any " plan," by which he thought that end could 
be accomplished with safety, — unless it be that of the Coloni- 
sation society, to whom, 1 am assured, he bequeathed a large 
Bum of money, to aid them in their benevolent enterprize. It 
is not indeed pretended, that he ever joined any abolition soci* 
ety, or that he ever expressed the slightest approbation of their 
proceedings; so that, as far as respects those societies, his au< 
thority is clearly against you; for, if he had believed that uni« 
versal emancipation would be effected by your abolition 
scheme, it is scarcely conceivable, that he would not have taken 
part in it, or encouraged it in some way. 

The same observations will apply to Mr. Gervy, except that 
he was not, so far as I know, a slave holder. He too may 
have desired universafemancipation; but I presume he had too 
much good sense not to perceive that your abolitionism is not 
the means by which it can be effected. 

,l Jay, Franklin, and Rush," our author says, "in 1787, 
united in an abolition society, to extend the blessings of free- 
doom to every part of our race." If this be so, it would seem 
to indicate that those three eminent men, not only had the same 
end, universal emancipation in view, but also, they did think, 
that abolitionism, as it appeared, was a meansby which that end 
would be accomplished. This may have been their opinion of 
the merits of that scheme,— an opinion however, which, as we 
have already Been, is more than counterbalance by that of all 



{fee great and patriotic meri of that day, who did not join in that 
enterprize. Nor is it at all surprising, that a few of those pat- 
riotic men, in the warmth of their philanthropic zeal for uni- 
fersal emancipation, should have given in to the first scheme 
offered, that seemed at all plausible, for accomplishing the end 
they so much desired. 

But is it beleived, that those good men, if they had lived to 
the present day, and witnessed the dangerous and mischievous 
excess to which modern abolitionism is carried, that the would 
now join in it? Never, surely. Abolitionism was then a new % 
and untried experiment. Its fatal effects had not yet, or but 
partially developed themselves nor could they be easily fore- 
seen; and the very object proposed by it, was, in its nature, a 
strong recommendation of it, to such minds as theirs. But now, 
after fifty years experience has tested the nature and efficacy, 
of that scheme, and so completely demonstrated the utter ruin 
it [must bring on in the Southern Slates, the case assumes a 
character altogether different from what it was at that day.-— 
Abolitionism is now % I think fully demonstrated to be a scheme 
fraught with mischief, and that of the most dangerous, and des« 
tructive kind, without the possibility of its ever doing any good. 
In such a scheme surely those men never would have joined, i 

But our author loudly complains, that he is not allowed to 
enjoy the liberty of the press, which, he says, is secured by 
the Constitution. Strange ! — While the use he is making of 
the press amounts to a positive violation of the constitution, and 
laws of our country, that constitution, it seems will not protect 
him in so doing ! Of this he complains ! — He forgets, meant 
time, that as the. press may be so used, or rather abused, in 
such a way as to render it an engine of the very worst kind 
of mischief. 

Understand me not as advocating the mode, in which the 
people of Cincinnati put a stop to your press. Asa general 
rule of proceeding, it cannot be too severely reprehended. But 
there are cases, nevertheless, in which the laws are necessary 
silent. Whither the case in Cincinnatti was such, or not, is not 
for me to decide. If, for example, I see a man who has laid 
a train of gunpowder to blow up my house standing with a 
lighted match in his hand, ready to set fire to it, I wait for no 
legal process to defend myself. Such, or of the same destruc. 
tive character, is the train your publications are piepairing for 
us in the South- -such in effect, what ever your intentions, (with 
which I meddle not,) may be. S. L. 



m 

To the Editor qfthf Philanthropist. 

One thing more in your " Narratire" I will notice. Th« 
author sayB, p. 36,1 " that the Philanthropist is the ackowledg- 
ed orgarfof some twelve thousand, or more of our fellow<citi- 
zens of Ohio, who believe, &c." And is that all you can 
number, out of more than a million of people in thatgreatState. 
This is more favorable than I had anticipated: — and it seems 
to me, that this is convincing proof, that the great body of the 
good people of Ohio — upwards of sixteen to one of the mentor 
83 to i , if we include the entire population, are happy and cou' 
tented with present order of things, and that they are not among 
those " who believe, that the slavery of the South, or the lib- 
erty of the North must cease to exist," as your " Executive 
Committee'' tells us the " twelve thousand or more" do. Now 
sir, shut up your press, and let that great body of the people of 
Ohio alone, and they will still continue to be contented and 
happy, as ever they were, and all will be well. 

But this dogma of you. Executive Committee, deserves not 
tice. I am not sure that I rightly understand it. If it means, 
that you are determined to proceed in your abolition scheme, 
until you shall have either put down "the slavery of the South," 
or destroyed " the liberty'of the North," I can only say,— the 
latter object you may effect, and at the same time destroy the 
liberty of the South also, — the former you may render worse, 
but never can you destroy it. My reasons for saying this, I 
have before given. 

If it means, that the existence of slavery, suck as it now t*, in 
the South, is incompatible with the " liberty of the North," and 
must destroy it, if suffered to continue, the position is absurd. 
The liberty of the North, I believe you will admit, is yet unim« 
paired, and flourishing in its highest vigor. And yet, Soullu 
ern Slavery is not a new thing. It has existed, exactly as it is 
now, for more than a hundred years. How come it then, that 
in all that time, it has not in the slightest degree, affected the 
liberty of the North? that it has not even begun to impair it? 
And if not, then to talk about its destroying that liberty is ridi- 
culous. 

Or, if this dogma means to assert, that the people of the 
Southern States are unfriendly to the liberties of the North, or 
that they have any design, or wish, by holding their slaves, to 
bring on a state of things that must destroy those liberties, or 
impair them in any degree,— in this sense it is an injuru 



m 

em calumny. Tour Committee forget, that our slates era all 
of them of a race of people by nature different, and distinct from 
the white people, who own them, — so much so, that it is mor» 
ally impossible for the two races ever to mix, and assimilate, so 
as to become one people, — that hence, these two distinct races 
of people have, and must always have, opposite, and conflict' 
ing interests, which, if the slaves were turned losse, must, in the 
nature of things, bring them continually in collision with each 
other, such as would, to a moral certainty, soon produce exas- 
peration, violence, and servile war. The great law of self 
preservation therefore, imperiously requires the people of the 
South, to hold that distinct race of people in subjection, as 
they now are. 

Your Committee forget also, that the white people of the 
South, and those of the North, are all of one and the same farm 
ily, or race of people, i. e. they are all free white people, and 
that consequently, as it respect the preservation of civil and 
political liberty, their interests are absolutely one and the same: 
and, accordingly, more warm, steadfast, and devoted friends to 
the true principles of liberty, civil and political, or more de« 
termined and fearless advocates, and defenders of that liberty 
than Southern men are, and always have been, never lived on 
earth. The proof of this is seen in almost every page of the 
liistory of our country. In real truth the men of the South feel 
a deep and abiding interest in the preservation of the liberty of 
the North, knowing as they certainly do know full well, that if 
the liberty of the North /alls, their own liberties must inevita* 
bly perish under its ruins. 

But, in another point of view, this dogma is worse than 
absurd, — it is mischievious. Just so far as it gains credit in the 
North, it leaches the people there, to look upon the people of 
the South, as enemies,— as obstinately persisting in a course, 
tfeat must inevitably destroy their liberties; for, if " Southern 
slavery" cannot exist consistently with « the liberty of the 
North," as the dogma asseits, and if Southern men absolutely 
refuse to relinquish their slaves, the obvious conclusion is, that 
Southern men are acting as enemies to the liberty of the North. 
The dogma then contains a dangerous and mischievous so» 
phism, calculated to deceive, and mislead the people of ihe 
North into the belief, that Southern men are acting the part of 
enemies to them. 

Let us turn to the South, and see what its effect will be there. 
And tbtr.®, a* far as U it helmed, and acted upon in ifee North* 



it tan b« considered in do other light, than a* erineing a tpirfc 
most dangerously hostile to all the Southern States. It is air, 
a compleat^re&rand, you have thrown between those two great 
sections $f our country. A few more such, and you will have 
kindled aflame that will indeed destroy the liberty of the North* 
and the liberty of the South along with it. & L. 



No. 11. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

One plea more remains to be considered. Slavery it is said* 
in the abstract, is unjust; — tt\at all men, by nature have equal 
rights, and consequently no man can have a right to enslave- 
another, any more than the other has to enslave him; And this 
plea has been very'generally admitted; but, I think, without due 
consideration. 

The plea is an appeal to the laws of nature, and rests wholly 
on the ground of mere natural right. If then it can be shewn 
that slavery has its cause in the law of nature, and is produced 
by those laws, the plea fails. 

Men, in a state of nature, it is said have equal rights. True, 
in theory: and if all men were strictly virtuous, this claim of 
equal rights might, and doubtless would be readily, and practn 
cully allowed. But practically, it is in no other case possible. 
Mankind are universally, by nature, vicious, and prone to in* 
jure each other, insomuch, that, if this equality of rights 
w 'ere practically allowed, they would quickly fall into a 6tate of 
violence, and anarchy, and destroy each other. By the very 
laws of human nature then, this equity of rights, for all practi- 
cal purposes, is forfeited. 

And this forfeiture of equal rights, is really a forfeiture of 
freedom; because it induces an absolute necessity, for all man» 
kind to submit to some coercive power, strong enough to res- 
train therefrom [injuring each other— some power which they 
are compelled to obey. And hence government with power 
to compel obedience to its laws, is indispensible. 

And this power must be vested somewhere; to be exercised 
by somebody:— and where? In whose hands? In the hands of 
men, vicious' as they are. Shall it be vested then in the hands 
of one man? or of a few, selected from the rest? or of the whole 
body of the people? Not the latter, for then all would claim 
equal rights, and equal power, and anarchy, the very mischief 



t» ha avoided, would ansa*. I speak not of th« right of ttif* 
fra'ge, to ? ote in electioni, for the choice of rulers, but of the 
power to administer the government and enforce obedience to its 
laws: and it is obvious that the whole people, those of any one 
of the United States for example, never can exercise this power 
by themselves, without falling into anarchy. Some one man 
then, or some small number of men, must be vested with this 
power; and to that all the rest must submit.* And if this ba 
so, the equality of right is gone: Some one, or more, have a 
right to rule, which the rest have not.* and freedom is gone; for 
rulers have power to command, and all the rest must obey. 

Now men, vested with power, are ever prone to abuse that 
power, to the injury of those over whom they are appointed to 
rule. The love of power is innate in human nature; not in ru* 
lers only, but in all mankind; and this ruling passion, can bs 
satisfied with nothing less than absolute unlimited power.-— 
Rulers are ever anxious to increase their power; and on the 
other hand, the people whom they rule, are equally anxious t® 
diminish it; and for that purpose to grasp at power in their own 
hands; and thus a never ceasing contest for power, is carried 
©n, between the rulers and the people; and, sooner or later, 
one, or the other of the contending powers, is sure to triumph 
over the other, and grasp all power into its own hands, f And 
it is of little importance on which side victory declares itself.— 
If on the side of Rulers, it is despotism — if on the side of iht 
people, it is anarcy, and ends in despotism, under which all 
are slaves. 

Thus we "see that slavery is the sentence pronounced out 
mankind, by the laws of human nature themselves; and so, ev- 
idently, it must be, eo long as human nature remains what it 



*This coercive power exists in our own free government, and 
is vested — in the Judiciary to decide, and the Executive to 
inforce its decisions. Without those powers there can be no 
government; and it is obvious, that the people never can exer- 
cise them, by themselves y without falling into anarchy. 

t Men in power are always fearful of opposition and of loos* 
ing it; and as the means of preserving what they have, they are 
always striving to. get more power. On the other hand, the 
people are always striving to deprive rulers of their power, from 
a fear of its being used to injure and oppress them: and neither 
party ever feels safe, so long as it has not power to eootrel ike 
•thtr at its will* 

i 



** 

*©w k* So true te the saying of our Saviour, H Who so erer 
eommitteth sin is the servant," or rather, as the original greek 
Word signifies, *♦ the slave of sin,'* as if he had said, so long as 
man is vicious, by an established law of nature, he is a slave. 

And it is remarkable that the same divine teacher, in the 
same passage has taught us the true and only means by which 
man can be made free, and restored to the enjoyment of those 
equal rights, .claimed for him in the passage we are now consid- 
ering. " Jf," says he, •> ye continue in my word, then are ye 
my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth 
shall make you free." John 8, 31-3 ->. q. d. If you continue in 
my word, and obey my instructions, as my true disciples, ye 
shall know the truth of my doctrine, and become truiy right- 
eous, and the truth,-— the righteousness thus taught you, shall 
make you free. But it seems that our Abolitionists, wiser in 
their own conceit than He, have, as they think, found out a 
better way ! 

Those enthusiasts do not perceive, that to appeal to the laws 
of human nature, as the ground of those equal rights which* 
they claim, and which those very laws destroy, as we have 
tee they do, in the present case, is absurd; qor do they per- 
ceive, that by striving, as they do, to force those equal rights 
on mankind^in the present vicious state of human nature, they 
are counteracting the very laws they invoke— the laws of hu« 
man nature. So utterly groundless is this plea 

This view of the laws of human nature is confirmed by the 
whole tenor of history. Ever since Adam apostatised from his 
creator, mankind have been subject to rulers; and, with a few 
exceptions of partial liberty, in some nations, which have en* 
dured for time only, they have been literally slaves to despo- 
, tic rulers: Such at this day, is the condition of more than nine* 
tenths, — I might probably say, ninety nine hundrelhs of man* 
kind. This slavery, which has fallen so heavily on the human 
face, when viewed in the light of revelation, is obviously a part 
of the chastisements, inflicted by a righteous Governor of the 
Universe, on mankind, for their apostacy from him: And in 
this view, his permitting it by the laws of human nature, which 
are his laws* is in perfect harmony with those scriptures, also 
emanating from him, by which, as we have before seen, slavery 
is so clearly allowed to be. And it is clearly allowed too, in 
mercy to mankind, as the only refuge which is possible, under 
the laws of nature, from that anarchy, into which, without it, 
their ▼ ices would be etrtain to plunge them. 



s* 

And do cur abolitionists dream, tlsat they ean eo&tck frsea 
the Almighty's band the rod, and say to him, you shall no Ion* 
ger chastise rebellious man in this way? How vain ! how fool- 
ish is their whole scheme ! How worse than vain; counteract- 
ing as it does throughout the stern unbending laws of nature* 
in a way which, as we have already seen, cannot fail to bring 
on a reaction, that must, through the most apalling scenes of 
anarchy and ruin, result in riviting with ten fold force the chains 
of slavery. 

How different would the result be, if those deluded mea 
would believe what their divine Master teaches; — that " Who* 
soever committeth sin, is the slave of sin;" — is, by the estab- 
lished laws of nature, the slave of his vicious passions; and that 
these passions urge him into all manner of disorder, and neceai 
sary result in reducing the person to slavery; if they would re- 
flect, that this is the natural stale of a mankind; that the "heart 
of man is deceatful above all things, ar\d desperately wicked:'* 
Je. 17. 9. If then they would take as their guide, the principle; 
laid down and prescribed by the same unerring Teacher, as the 
true means of restoring man to freedom, viz. — That " the 
truth," the sublime and powerful truths of" his word'* — of the 
gospel, " shall make you freer" — If then they would follow the 
example of the Apostles, by preaching, and urging those truths 
home upon the consciences, of both Masters and Slaves; if, like 
those inspired men, they would say to the slaves, M Art thou 
callerl," and become a converted christian, " being a slave? 
care not for it." Thou dost indeed suffer, but remember, that 
such is the lot of christians; and that " we must, through much 
tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God;" and that these are 
" light afflictions, which are but for a moment," and shall 
"work for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory." 
Mean time "be obedient to them that are your masters accord, 
ing to the flesh, with lear and trembling, in singleness of heart, 
as unto christ; not with eye service, as man pleasers, but as the 
servents of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart:, with 
good will doing service, as unto the Lord, and not to man, know- 
ing whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he 
receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free." If then they 
would turn to masters, and say to them, " Ye masters, do th& 
same things unto them, forbearing threatening; knowing that 
your master also is in heaven; neither is their respect of per* 
sons with him." 4 * give," therefore, " unto your servants that 
which is just and equal." The sum of all whicl* is, B$ 



so 

all in She feat of God, and in obeditne* to hif will, ia tbtf 
station io which his providence has place you, looking for your 
reward in a future, and a better world. If our abolitionists 
would thus follow the example of the inspired' Apostles, they 
would indeed be doing much good in the world. They would 
be laying the axe to the root, and cutting up Blavery, root and 
branch; by destroying, or at least effectually restraining all the 
vicious passions ot men-; which are the very cause of all the 
evils of slavery; and of slavery itself; or if they did not destroy 
it altogether, they would, as far as the mild and beneficient 
spirit of the gospel ghould prevail, take away all its hardships, 
and transform it into that mild and gentle sway, which is exer« 
cised by just and good masters, over j*ood and willing servants; 
a yoke, certainly, that is light, and easily to be borne. 

Surely fchen it must be the bounded duty of those men, to 
abandon every other scheme, and at once adopt, and follow the 
example of the Apostles, in this delicate and dangerous affair. 
Jf they will do this, it is plain that they will essentially promote 
the cause of Christianity, they will be the means of dispersing 
the dark cloud tnat hangs over us, and threatens to burst in 
fury upon our country, and of restoring peace and harmony 
throughout the land; and they will thus acquire, and deserve, 
the exalted title of benefactors of mankind. But if they will 
aot. 1 forbear to say more. S. L. 

Mo. as. 

ABOLITIONISTS REVIEWED, 
To the Abolitionists throughout the 
United States. 

Conclusion. 
We have seen in the foregoing numbers, that by the laws of 
Tiature, mankind in their present fallen state, have forfeited 
their original freedom, and become the slaves of sin," i. e. 
slaves to their own vicious passions; by which they are led 
captive into all manner of wickedness and crime, natufaly, and 
necessarily resulting in personal slavery; that slavery, thus rei 
suiting from the laws of human nature, is permitted to fall on 
man, as a righteous chastisement for his apostacy from his cre- 
ater, and rebellion against him; and also as a refuge from a far 
greater evil, viz. anarchy, in which the force of the vicious pas* 
sions, without such a restraint, would necessarily involve th* 
whole harmsn race. 



And thi§ §?ii, Wd hftf a ai§o teeo, ii ©isarly allowed by th§ 
•cripturea to exist: — the scriptures thus harmonizing with, and 
afferming the laws of nature in this point; and shewing, that 
this order of things makes part of the divine government, as ex> 
ercisedover Ike fallen human race, in the present state of pro* 
bation. They must be governed according to their nature at 
ii is; and accordingly we know, that this order of things, allow, 
ing the existence of slavery, has existed ever since the first 
man rebelled against his Creator. The laws given to the Jews, 
Levit. 25, 44 did not then for the first time institute slavery, it 
only regulated it, as it then existed, and had for ages existed 
among all nations of mankind; Nor did that law at all relate to 
the religious worship prescribed to the Jews, but solely to their 
temporal government in this world. It was a mere civil lavt % 
part of thecivil government; and as such it permitted the Jews 
to " buy'' and hold slaves and it thus clearly permitted slavery 
to continue, in the temporal government of mankind. 

And we have seen also, that when our Saviour came, he did 
not forbid the continuance of slavery, as it then was— a part of 
the civil government of theRoman Empire; — millions of slaves 
being, at that very time, held in bondage under the laws of that 
empire: And, far less did the Apostles forbid it. On the con- 
trary, we have seen that they expressly sanction it, by com. 
mandmg slaves to "-be obedient unto their masters;" and they 
then proceed to prescribe rules for its regulation. 

And now, with these clear authorities in our favor, O ye 
abolitionists, will you any longer persist in accusing every 
owner of a slave with being a man stealer? and that too, in the 
iace of the command, " Thou shalt not raise a false report," 
Exed. 23, 1, " neither accuse any falsely." — Thou shalt not 
bear false witness against thy neighbour?" 

Or, with the full knowledge, that we, in the South, do con' 
scientiously believe, that we are fully warranted by the divine 
Jaw in holding our slaves. Will you still continue arrogantly 
to arraign, try, and condemn us as sinners, when our Savior's 
command is, " Judge not, lea&t ye be judged: For with what 
judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged;" and again, " Who art 
ihou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master 
he standeth or falleth." 

Or, seeing that our laws so clearly establish our right to hold 
slaves, will you still persist in you declaration, that these laws 
" are a presumptuous transgression of the boly commandment, 
and ought to be instajitly abolished?" (Paulding's " elavery" 



|>, 1*5, quoted for the Proceedings of the National Ant iiSttav* 
rj Society, Philadelphia.) , And will yoa still continue your 
war of extermination against those laws, and against the people 
of the South, for claiming the benefit pf them? Will you do 
this in open and avowed violation of these laws, while the stern 
and positive command of the divine law is, v- To obey pnnci< 
palities and powers* and to obey magistrates, &c? — Whiie she 
" holy commandment," to which you yourselves appeal is,-— , 
" Let every soul be subject to the higher power?," — obviousl^ 
meaning the higher powers of the civil government? " for,'* 
says the Apostle, " there is no power but of God; the powers 
that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth 
the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist 
shall receive to themselves damnation* For he is the minister 
of God to thee, for *ood. But if thou do that which is evil, be 
afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain; for he is the min- 
ister of God, a revenger, to execute wrath upon him that doelh 
evil. Wherefore ye must need be subject, not only for wrath, 
but for conscience. For this cause pay ye tribute also, &>c.'* 
Rom. 13, 1 — 6. And again, the Apostle commands, " Sub* 
nut yourselves to every ordinance of man, for the Lord's sake; 
whether it be to the king, as supreme, or unto governors sent 
by liJJPi ,r °- r tne punishment of evil doers, and for the praise of 
them thai do well." 1 Pet. 2, 13, 14, And be it remember- 
ed, ithat under* the civil government of the Roman laws, — the 
4 *ordenancesofmen,"to which the Apostle commands all men, 
but more especially Christians, to whom his epistle is specially 
addressed,, to "submit themselves," millions of slaves were held 
in bondage, at the very time when the Apostle wrote, — exact* 
ly in the same way that slaves are now held under the laws of 
the Southern States. Dare you then, in the face of these com- 
mands, any longer to wage your war against these laws, to 
whieh the commands so clearly bind you to submit? 

Once more, sustained, as we see the people of the Southern 
States are by the laws of their country— laws so clearly sane 
tioned as they are, by holy writ; and knowing as those people 
do, that it is impossible for them to turn their slaves loose with- 
out involving both themselves and their slaves also in utter ruin; 
knowing all this, are you week enough to imagine, that they 
ever will, or can consent to what you demand of them? It is 
the extreme of folly to expect it. It is impossible. Nay, it 
would be criminal in them to do so, knowing as they do, the 
ruinous consequences that muet inevitably follow. And will 



ye* tfeen still go on" organizing" your " Anti tlatery Soeio, 
ties in every city, and town, and village in our land," and 
•' sending forth agents" to " circulate unsparingly" among the 
Southern people your incendiary '• tracts and periodicals," 
knowing, as you must now know, that the sole and only thing 
that is possible for you to effect by that means, is to stirup in* 
surrection, and to cause the murder of thousands, not of slave 
holders only, but of innocent women and children, besides ail 
the horrors consequent upon such a scene Behold then the 
work you are doing. And how would such a scene end? It 
would end, the strong probability is, in the extermination of 
nearly the whole negro race among us. Treat not this picture 
lightly:— It is drawn from the life. S. L. 



No. 13. 

Stricture* on a pamphlet entitled " Appeal to the Christian mo* 
m$n of the South" signed Angelina E. GrimJce'. 
Since the foregoing sheets were sent to press, the pamphlet 
mentioned above has been put into my hands, purporting to be 
the work of a lady, It invites, and urges, in the most enthu- 
siastic strain, the females of the South, to join in the go^.d 
work of turning loose an internal enemy to cut the throats of 
their brothers, their husbands and their fathers, and then to 
rob, plunder and murder them ann their children; and thus to 
rouse a spirit of indignation and fury that could scarcely be re« 
strained from exterminating the whole race whose Wrongs she 
affects to deplore ! This is really the work Southern females 
would be doing were they to comply with her wishes ! In 
this diabolical work she would have them engage — for what? 
Why foresooth as the means of putting away their sin ! No 
madam, let me answer for the fair daughters of the Souftr, and 
I am sure their hearts will respond to what I tell you. If you 
and your associates of the" Sixty Female Anti-Slavery Socie* 
ties in operation," of which you boast, are engaged in this 
strange work of mischief, be assured that Southern females un- 
derstand their christian duties, tro well to follow your example. 
And is it females, that are engaged in this work? " The 
North," our fair authoress tell us, p. SO, *• i3 most^ dreadfully 
afraid of amalgamation;" and then she sets herself to reconcile, 
sot only the men but tht free white women of our country to 



srsr 

it, Sb« trguei ths question, is her own way, aod fcbea eoBsss 
to this conclusion, •* I will leave you to 'judge* 1 says sht 9 
" whether the fear of amalgamation ought to induce men to op- 
pose Anti-Slavery efforts when tkiy believe slavery to be tin* 
ful" And a little lower down she says, that Abolitionists "ar# 
wielding a two edged sword which— cuts through the cords of 
caste" i. e. cuts up all distinction of caste, or colour, and ends 
in complete amalgamation. So then, she thinks slavery is 
sinful, and that in order to remove it, Southern men, and South- 
ern women too, ought to submit to amalgamation ! It is the 
fair conclusion then from her own argument, that she and he? 
associates are prepared to submit to it ! 

Well madam, if you and your associates have foi got that ths 
appropriate sphere of woman is the domestic circle of her fam- 
ily — that it is there alone she can hope to fulfil the important 
duties assigned to her by her Creator — that it is there only aha 
becomes a blessing to all around her, and beloved by dJ— »if 
you have fergot this, be assured the fair and virtuous females 
of the South have not.— If you have left the station Heaven da- 
signed for you, and-become **>busy bodies speaking the things 
you ought not," and meddling with other people*s business, 
with which you have no concern, nor any right to interfere,— 
if you have done, and are doing this be ye certain that the 
Christian woman of the South know their calling too well to 
follow you. — If each of you is prepared to submit to the em* 
braces of a black wolly headed lord and master, with all his igi 
norance and barbarity, and to become the mothers of a degrad- 
ed breed of mulatto children, — if your are prepared for all this, 
be ye well assured that neither Southern women nor Southern 
m£n are yet prepared to set all decency at defiance in that way. 
And are you indeed prepared for it? No, I cannot yet believe 
that either you. or your associates are so lost to all self respect, 
to the respect you owe to your own sex, as well as to the strong- 
er sex, by whom you are beloved and cherished and protected 
as to be willing to submit to such gratuitous and de^p degrada- 
tion. Some artful designing leader of the Abolition schema 
of mischief must have deceived you, else surely, you never 
would have let such a pamphlet get abroad under the sane* 
tion of your name. 

My fair opponent appeals to the scriptures. So do I; and 
I think her arguments will be found to be pretty fully an* 
sweredin the forgoing numbers. A passing notice however 
•floras of them— 



1.- She begins with Adam: Answer, Mo argument can be 
drawn from the prerogatives conferee! on man, in his ori^ 
ginal state of innocence* Man is now fallen, and become a 
slave. See Nq. 11 & 11, which are a full answer to what she 
says about " the curse pronounced upon Canaan." 

2. Abraham held servants " bought with money of Strang* 
ers" Gen, 17, 12, consequently those servants were slaves.—* 
But " patriarchal servitude," she says, was not "like Ameri* 
can slavers," Why? She does not shew that these servants 
"jbought with money," and " of strangers" implies that they 
were slaves bought of heathen mastars. Where then is the 
difference? Why, she tells us, that the Patriarches treated 
their slaves — (servants, if you like the term better,) witjji kind* 
ness;-— but American masters treat theirs with-jCruelty. This 
is the amount of what she thinks so great a difference. She 
forgets, that in this, she confounds the abuse of the master's 
powers, with his right to hold his slave, without such abuse. — 
If one man treat his slaves with cruelty, does that afford any ar- 
gument against the right of another to his slaves, who treats 
his kindly?- And yet this sophism runs through her whole 
pamphlet, and appears on almost every page. I^runs too 
through all the writings of the abolitionists, at least asTaras I 
have seen them It is their constant theme, — their great re* 
source, to supply their lack of argument in all case. But is 
this practice of theirs justifiable? It deceives and misleads, as 
Will be afterwaids more fully shown; and is therefore equal to 
bearing false witness. But " one of Abraham's servants" she 
says "was to inherit his immense estate." So Abraham 
thought when he was disponding and desparing of ever having 
an heir. But what was the answer the Lord give? "This 
shall not be thine heir" was the answer, Gen. 15* 4- The 
case of Abraham is therefore, clearly an authority against her. 

3. Our authoress labours through several pages, to prove, 
that under the Mosaic law, no Jew could be held in servitude 
more than six year3. Granted, and what then? It was a priv- 
ilege peculiar to the Jews: It applied to no other nation on 
earth. In all other nation there were slaves, whose children 
were born slaves. The children of Israel themselves had been 
previous in that Btate of slavery, in Egypt; which is full proof,that 
this hereditary slavery then existed among the heathen nations. 
The law therefore, Leit. 25, 54, which authorised the Jews to 
buy " bondmen," i. e. slaves, from the heathen, goes clearly 
to sanction the existance of slavers, as it then was^ among those 

6 ■ 



4ft 

heathen aatiffiit sad, by authorising the Jew§ to bay thog# 
slaves, and hold them '* «?* an inheritance™ without limitting 
their time of servitude, but simply as u bondmen," it clearly 
sanctions their buying xhemjusi as they were in the hands of 
their heathen masters, i. e. subject to the same bondage. If 
was a clear case of the lex talionis, authorising the Jews to 
treat the heathens, just as they before treated them. And we 
have before seen, that our Savior, when he came, did not abol* 
ish this law, but allowed it to remain in full force; and we have 
seen too, that the Apostles have expressly affirmed it/and coo» 
tinued it in force. See my " Review of Abolitionism/' and 
also the foregoing No. 3.* 

* If to this argument it be objected/ that in rescuing fh® 
Israelites from Egyptian slavery, by the strong arm of bis own 
power, the Divine Being manifested his entire disapprobation 
of all slavery, the answer is clear, and satisfactory. That was 
& solitary ease* — an exception from the general rule, which, in 
the course of divine providence, has been allowed to prevail, in 
&li other nations, except th Jews, from that day to this. Be- 
eides, every one, who has studied the Bible knows, that the 
whole Jewish oeconoroy was typical, prefiguring better things 
to come. In their rescue from slavery in Egypt, is evidently 
profigured thai compleat disinthralment from sin, — from the 
dominion of the inherent vicious passions of the human heart, 
which is foretold to take place, when the mellennium shall 
come. Then, " the people shall be all righteous *' Jer. 3!, 
34, Isai. 60. 21, " all shall koow the Lord, from the least to 
the greatest." All the vicious passions shall be subdued, and 
universal righteousness, and peace shall be established, under 
the reign of Christ himself on earth: and thus, the cause of 
slavery being destroyed, the effect will naturally cease;— Slavery 
will be no more. But, as the divine power interposed to pro- 
duce the type, so the same power must again interpose, to ac- 
complish the thing which is prefigured by that type; for, it is 
obvious, that no other power can accomplish that great work. 
All attempts of man to accomplish it, by any human legisla- 
tion, is mere quackery, of the worst and most mischievous 
kind; And, what proves to a demonstration, that it was not 
against slavery as such, that the Divine Being intended to 
manifest his displeasure, by rescuing the Israelites as he did, 
is, that he condemns the JeWs themselves to slavery, for their 
iisobedjencejto him, "And the Lord shall bring tbee ag aio into 



4» 

4, But out authoress thinks, that all in? oluntary ienrit«4« 
n forbidden by the command, " Thou shall not deliver unto his 
master the servant,that is escapped from his master unto thee. ? * 
Deut. 23, 15. The absurdity of this, is exposed before, in No. 
5. It is at war with Levit. 25, 44, on her construction of it, 

5. She thinks, again, that she finds a decisive argument in 
her favor, in the passage, Levit- 25, 30, " And ye shall hallow 
the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout the land, un» 
to all the inhabitants thereof: it shall be a jubilee unto thee." 
This is answered in a former No. but I will add, that she forgets 
that this law was one of the civil institutions of the Jewish na* 
Hon,— a part of their temporal government in this world, as far* 
at least, as regards freedom or slavery, and the " return" of 
every man "unto his possession," and'" unto his family." Ver. 
10— that it was pecular to the Jews, and never was in force in 
any other nation;— and that when the Jewish government was 
destroyed, this law fell a long with it, and became void and of 
bo effect; and consequently, as we are Gentiles, and not Jews, 
and as this Jaw has never been in force among us, it can have 
no application to our case. Shall I be told, that if this be so, 
the law on which I rely, Levit. 25, 44-46 is gone in the same 
way? I answer: We have just seen, that the law last mention- 
ed, in its effect, was not confined to the Jews, — that it looked 
to the Gentile nations also, and by a necessary implication 
sanctioned the slavery which then existed among them; and 

Egypt, with ships, by the way whereof I spoke unto thee. Thou 
shall see it no more again, and there ye shall be sold unto your 
enemies for bondmen and bondwomen, and no man shall buy 
you." Deut. 28. 68. See the whole chapter from verse 15 to 
the end. And we know, that this threatening has been execu* 
ted, with terrible severity, on that people; first, in the Baby* 
lonish captivity; and afterwards under Titus the Roman em* 
peror, when many thousands of them were literally sold as 
slaves in Egypt, and elsewhere. See Josephus, "Jewish war," 
Book 6, chapt. 9, Sec. 2. Slavery then is allowed -to exist as 
arod in tjhe hand of the Divine Governor of the Uuiverse, with 
which he chastises mankind for their rebellion against him, and, 
at the same time employs it as a means of restraining them 
from rushing into anarchy, and destroying themselves. Sea 
No. 11. So long therefore, as mankind continue to be gen- 
erally disposed to disobey him, as they now are, it is folly to 
think of removing slavery horn them, by any human power. 



44 ■ * 

that slavery we know, was the same in eVary feature, with thai 
which exists among us: and which, as we have seen, is so clear- 
ly sanctioned by the Apostles. This law therefore, was not 
abrogated, as the other was, but the destruction of the Jewish 
goverment, but remains in full force, to the effeet just mention- 
ed, in all the Gentile nations. Our authoresses argument' 
therefore falls- 

6. And yet, as if she had proved her point, and established 
her doctrines beyond ail possibility of doubt, she proceeds to 
denounce the vengeance of heaven against every man, and wo» 
man, who shall presume any longer to hold a slave * p. 9 & 10. 
Stop here a moment madam, if you please. Who made you 
our judge in this matter? Head if you please Math. 7, 1-5, 
and Rom. 14, 4. They may teach you a useful lesson. 

7. But she seems alarmed." "The guilt of the North" she 
says, " is increasing in a tremendous ratio, as light is pouring 
in upon her on the subject of the sin of slavery," Indeed! Are 
you accountable for our sin? Where do you find any scripture 
for that, since you have borne your testimony against that sin, 
if it be one? and have even waged war against us for it? This 
pretext is the very essence of absurdity. And yet abolitionists 
boldly, and unblushingly assert it, and dwell upon it, and urge 
it, as if it were an undoubted truth! Nay worse, it is the very 
ground on which they undertake to justify their gratuitous and 
mischievous interference in this matter!— a matter in which 
they have no more right to intermeddle, than we have to attack 
them and overturn all order among them. 

8. But she says, M It will be found no excuse,'* for this 
imaginary sin of the North, "that the constitution of our coun 
try required" fugitive slaves to be- delivered up to their owners. 
If there be any one doctrine more wickedly dangerous, and 
mischievous, than any other, it is this 'doctrine of resistance to 
the constitution and laws of our country. u Who soever re. 
sisteth the power," of the civil government of his country, is 
evidently the meaning, says St. Paul, " resisteth the ordinance 
of God; and they that resist shall receive to themselves damna« 
tion." Rom. 14. 2. Let abolitionists think on this. 

9. In p. 12, she contrasts the laws of Moses with the laws of 
the South, respecting slavery, and comes to the concluson, 
that our u Code Noir, throws him," (the slave) " out of the 
protection of the law." Throughout this pamphlet and indeed 
throughout all the writings of the abolitionists, so far as they 
have come under my notice, slaves in the South are reoresent* 



w 

ed as wholly destitute of aoy legal protection whatever and ai 
the innoceos victims of ferocious and unprincipled masters, who 
scarcely delight in any thing so much as in torturing, and tor' 
mentiog their slaves! And this is the kind of slaver? they are 
thus representing Southern men as contending fori Do they 
know, have they reflected on the wickedness of such ^ course? 
on the deep and deadly injury they are thereby doing to their 
fellow beings. 1. It involves the innocent with the guilty. If 
t^ere are some cruel and unfeeling masters in the South, they 
are not all such: nay the great body of them are the reverse,— 
they are humane and just, towards their slaves; and this the 
abolitionists know, or might know, tif they would,* 2. This 
practice is an unfair, and disingenius shifting of the ground 
of the argument; as if we were defending the abuse of the mas- 
ter's authority, which no man thinks of defending, instead of 
defending our right to hold our slaves, and treat them with bu* 
manity, which we do defend, 3. It thus hides, and keeps the 
real merits Of the case out of sight, and deceives, and misleads 
every* one, who relies on their statements, in forming their 
judgment^ and is thus, equivalent to bearing false testimony. 4. 
It excites prejudice, rouses resentment,and is rapidly sowing the 
seeds of animosity, dissention, and discord, between the JNorth 
and the South, and is thus lightening up the flames of civil war. 
5. If abolitionists would confine their censures, and invec* 
tives, to the abuse of their master's authority, as being itself a 
sin, we would hear them patiently, and acknowledge the ad* 
monition just; nay more, we would do, or at least it would be 
our duty to do, all in our power to correct the evil, and bring 
into universal use the rules laid down by the Apostles for our 
government in this case. But no, instead of doing this, and 
admonishing our slaves to i% be obedient unto their own mas* 
ters," as the Apostles did, they are preverting the fact, that 
some such abuses do exist, into the means of attacking 
our right itself; and using it as the strongest possible incentive 
to insurrection among ourslaves ! And while they are doing 
all thi3, they are calling on us to " do unto others, as we would 
they should do unto us !" 

1CK Once more. rt Try yourselves," says she, " by another 

* For a fair,"candid and tsue account of the condition of our 
slaves, of the treatment they receive, and of the laws by 
which they are protected in the South, see Mr. Paulding's ex- 
cellent work, entitled " Slavery in the U. States," chap. 8. 9. 



4* 

t^tbe &rim pT&m^Sk & The* shak love thy mighhcmt m thy- 
■elf." Yes madam, if you will infuse that perfect love into the 
hearts of all of our people, slaves as well as their masters, we 
shall then willingly emancipate them all. But as you cannot 
do this, nor can we do it; and as we know that our slaves are 
under the influence of all the wicked and malignant passions 
that actuate fallen man, we deem it not yet safe, either for 
them, or ourselves, to turn them all loose. Mankind, in this 
world, must be governed as they are, not by rules suited to 
none but angels, or perfect christians. To cite this precept 
against us therefore is absurd* 

11. Again, in p. 1 5, she contends that St. Paul did not sane* 
tion slavery, because he condemns manstealers" which word,*' 
she says, *« may be translated slavedealers" Perhaps it may; 
and what then? He who steals slaves, for whatever purpose, 
deals in slaves, and is*a slave dealer. And he who buys slaves, 
and pays for them honestly, according to the laws of his coun» 
try, is also a slave dealer. But is he also a slave- stealer? It 
is absurd to say that he is; for he has not stolen at all: and if so, 
it is impossible for him to be a man'Steaier. Nor is it possible 
to conceive, that St. Paul so understood him. without charging 
him with this absurdity. St. Paul must unquestionably have 
know, that the Roman laws under which he lived at the very 
time he was writing, sanctioned shivery exactly as our laws 
now do: and that under those laws there was slave^dealing— 
that slaves were sold and bought, the transaction being consid* 
©red a far and legal one; and yet, knowing all this, he strictly 
commands obedience to those very law§. See the preceding 
Nos. 3 & 1 1. And the Apostle Peter still more clearly com- 
mands obedience to the same laws See Rom. 13, 1-7. 1 Pet, 
2, 13. Tit. 3. 1. 1 Tim. 6. 1. Is it possible then to believe that 
these two Apostles considered the fair dealing in slaves* ac- 
cording to the laws of the country in which men live as involy** 
ing the guilt of manstealing? and that too when they so strictly 
command obedience to the very laws that sanction such slave 
dealing? It is absurd to say so. Nor is it possible so to un- 
derstand this word, without charging the Apostle with the same 
absurdity, Nay more, it is contradictory: It make the Apos- 
tle, by this single ambiguous word, condemn what he in other 
passages, as we have already seen, so clearly allows! and that 
too when such is not the primary literal meaning of the word, 
and in a passage where it does not at all require its primary 
groaning to bv in ths least departed from in the translation. 



It. ** B* setaafpme4,"aa?f§ft«, p. If, " wkan l§ay tuck 
wicked laws ought to be no barrier in the way of your duty, 
and I appeal to the Bible to prey® this position." Here it an 
appeal to the Bible, to sanction open and avowed rebellion 
against the laws of our country! Every roan of common 
sense must see, at first blush, that such a doctrine is fraught 
with the most diabolical mischef; nor is there any thing more 
severely condemned in the Bible, than such rebellion is. See 
Bom. 13, 2. 

13. But she pleads the example of the prophets and tha 
Apostles, who chose to "obey God rather than men." Strang a 
arrogance! Have abolitionists an immediate call and a com- 
mission from God, ; as the psopheis and Apostles had? Art 
they commissioned from on high, to declare the will of God to 
man, as those holy men of old were? I trou not. What means 
have they of knowing what the will of God is in this matter, 
more than we have? None at all. Are they commissioned 
from above to sit in judgment upon the laws of their country y 
and to pronounce this law righteous, and that one wicked?— 
Not so. It is then a dearing usurpation of the prerogative of the 
Most High, for them thus to judge and condemn as wicked, the 
laws of their country, — laws which God himself, as we have 
already seen commands them to obey. 

14. But the Israelitish women u feared God and did not as 
the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the man child- ' 
ren alive,"— and God approved their conduct. True. They 
refused to commit murder, which the king had commanded 
them to do, but God had said thou shalt not kill, and they knew 
it. And do our laws require you to commit murder? If not 
the case of those Hebrew women is nothing to the purpose.-— 
44 Shadrack, Mashac and Abednego," refuse to worship Nebu* 
chadnezzar's image, because they knew God had forbbid it.~ 
Do our laws require you to worship an image. If not, this case 
will not help you. Daniel " prayed and give thanks to God," 
knowing that the king had forbid him to do so. Very well, and 
do our laws forbid you to " pray and give thanks to God?" If 
not, neither is this case any thing to the purpose. To come to 
the point, Do our laws require you to hold slaves, and thus 
commit sin, as you say it is? Not at all; and if not, than all the 
above cases, which you cite to justify your rebellion against the 
laws of your country, are wholly out of the question. Every 
one of the persons concerned, was required by the king's com- 
mand, to do an act, which rendered himself guilty of the sin m» 



4m 

volved in that act: Om laws require no such* thing of you; but 
leave you at perfect liberty to do, or not to do the act., which 
you call sin. These cases therefore afford you not even the 
shadow of a justification for you war against the laws of your 
country. And here may I not ask our zealous abolitionists to 
consider, whether in the passage we have just been examining, 
they do not justly incur the charge of perverting the meaning 
of the scriptures, and " wresting" them % \ to their own des- 
truction. 5 " 2 Pet 3. 16. 

15- But our zealous authoress thinks her "christian friends'* 
in the South, ought even to encounter persecution and suffer- 
ing in the good cause of abolitionism, p. 20. The folly and 
absurdity of this is before exposed in No. 4, 

16. I thought that I had here finished my task; but another 
passage strikes my eye. " There is every encouragement,'* 
she says, " for you to labour"— " because the abolition of sla* 
very, as well as its existence, has been the subject of prophecy, 
' Ethiopia shall stietch forth her hands unto God." p 26. — 
And w They shall sit every man under his vine and under his 
% tree, and none shall make him afraid." And " many shall 
run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." These 
are all the prophecies she cites; and in these she thinks aboli- 
tionism is foretold ! And she thinks too, that abolitionism is to 
*" roll onward" the " wheels of the millennial car I" Whoever 
has studied the prophecies knows, that the state of things usu« 
ally called the millennium, is described as one in which the 
kingdom of Christ shall be set up in this world, and ride over 
the whole earth." Isai. 2, 2.4. Dan. 2, 44. Rev. 20, 4— when 
universal righteousuess and peace shall prevail, — when "they 
shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into 
pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, 
neither shall they learn war any more"—- when <l they shall no 
more teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother 
saying, Know the Lord: for they shall all know me from the 
leas* unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord; for 1 will for- 
give their iniquity, and will remember their sin no niore," Jer. 
31,34, — when the people shall be all righteous." Isaic. 60, 
21, — when w the wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the 
leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young 
lion and the fatling together; and a little child lead them; and 
the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down 
together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the 
mucking child shall play on the hole of the Asp, and the wean*. 



<# 

,ti chitd shall put his hand on the cockatrices den. They shall 
not hurt nor dostroy in all my holy mountain, (or kingdom,) for 
the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the wa* 
ters cover the sea." Isai. 11,6 9. S^eh is the millennium, as 
described by the prophets.—a state of things, it is obvious, 
nothing but the immediate interposition of the power of Got! 
can produce. How tortile then is our authoresses notion, that 
il God designs to confer this holy privilege on man," of " foL 
filing 1 " the prophecies and bringing in the millinmum, p- 27 — -« 
Abolitionism, we have seen, in its very nature, is calculated to* 
set up a very different kingdom, 

IT. In p. 2H, she undertakes to " wipe from the fair charae* 
ter of abolitionism" the " unfounded accusations" of its being" 
" insurrectionary, dangerous, and miscbievious," — and this 
she does in a pamphlet, which is itself, one of the most com., 
pleat'y insurrectionary publications that can well be conceived. 
But let us forgive her, for sins evidently knows not what sha> 
does 

18. One thing more, anrl I have done. The dogma that 
" all men are created equal, c5*c." is brought up against us p. 
2. — a dogma that eveiy man of common sense knows to be 
false in point of fact. Are all men created equal in bodily 
powers? No. in mental capacities? No. In moral viitues? 
No. In all these men differ as much as the features of their 
faces do. But they have certain " unalienable rights." Life 
is one of them, is it ? This may be forfeited by crime;— So 
may liberty; and so may the right to "the pursuit of happiness.'' 
What other such rights? None. Then the dogma is false. It, 
remains that virtue alone is free; and that the natural inherent 
vicious possions make men slaves. See No. l\. S. L« 



No. 14. 
Abolitionism Reviewed. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I received your 49th No. in which you begin yon reply to > 
the communications I have sent you. I have piepired othei • 
communications to the No. 13, which were intended to be sen t 
for publication in your papef, but from the delay in the ap .. 
pearance of those I sent you, I concluded yon had decline ,i 
publishing them, and have had the whole of them printed hor a- 
in pamphlet form, This pamphlet I now send to you» the w) ^ 

1 



- 

50 

tional Nos, to be if you please, inserted in your paper. Thi* 
I consider as due to your readers; that they may see the argu* 
inents on both sides of the question: and this I believe you have? 
pledged yourself to do. I send you also another copy of my 
* l Review of Abolitionism," as you say the one I before sen! 
did not come to your hands. 

And now for your ** Reply!" You think w the source of my 
errors," as )ou consider my views of the Constitutional ques- 
tion to be, w consist in my vague conception of the phrase 
u moral power." I think sir on the contrary, lhat when I 
wrote my argument, I understood that phrase perfectly. Your 
long explanation of it, affords me no new light at all concern* 
ing it. But I shall not stay to dispute with you about the 
meaning of the phrase*, it is to the use you are makmg of your 
" moral power" that we object and what that use or rather 
abuse of it is, I have more than^nce had occasion to state, and 
need not here repeat. It is staged in the last paragraph of my 
argument to which you have replied, but this part of that argu- 
ment you pass over in perfect silence; thus admitting what 
cannot be denied-— the truth of the statement I there made. In 
profound silence did I say? Have you taken no notice of this 
part of my argument? Let me recollect. O yes you have, 
you have sung your old song ot " moral power" over again; 
and yon would still have us to believe, that that " moral pow- 
er" in the way you are wielding t/, is nothing more than a ere 
u councel" or " persuasion," as if you considered the whole 
Southern people destitute of common sense,— as ignorant of 
what mere ** counsel" or u persuasion" is, and as incapable of 
perceiving, that it is indeed^, and in truth, an obstinate, dan- 
gerous, and destructive war, you are waging against their peace 
and safety — against their lives, and the lives of their innocent 
wives and children 1 It is sir the song of the Siren you are 
singing to us, when you talk to us about your tl moral power." 
And against whom are you waging this obstinate and unre», 
lenting war? It is against your brethren— against your fel. 
, low christians, of whom, there are many thousand in the Sooth, 
who are, allow me to say, or at least many of them are as ca- 
pable ot examining and understanding the question of slavery 
as you are, or as any other man on earth. These sir or at 
, jeat many of them have well examined that question, and do 
conscientiously believe, that in the circumstances in which di- 
vine providence has placed them, they are fully justified in hold- 
ing their slaves, treating them as the apostles direct slaves, ox if 



you like the term better, as tbey direct servants te be treated. 
And will you, dare you, undertake to sit in judgment on all 
this numerous body of christians, and pronounce them to be no 
christians at all? You will not, I am persuaded venture to do 
po. VVe?l sir, if not, it remains, that they are really, what they 
profess to be, christians: and what follows? Why it follows, 
that you are waging this obstinate war, against your brethren — 
against your fellow christians — against these, no less than 
against all others in the South, who make no profession of reli- 
gion at all. You are thus dividing the christian ehur-ch against 
itself, and stirring up feelings of bitterness and exasperation* 
between two great bodies of christians in our country, which 
must, if you persist much, longer, bring them in hostile array 
against each other, and set them to shedding each others bloo*U 
Think sir on this, it certainly is no fiction. 

You think, and have taken pains to prove, that the right tr> 
exercise the powers of" counsel" or persuasion (so you your, 
•self define moral power to be) cannot be surrendered to the 
government* When sir? When have I ever contended that 
it could? Never; nowhere. It were absurd so to contend; 
but this absurdity is your own, not mine. And yet you have* 
if I understand you, placed it to my account, and made th& 
whole weight of your " reply'Mo rest upon it as if it was mine* 
For, after stating in a pretty long paragraph, which contains 
the proposition, that this right cannot be surrendered, and 
nothing else except your reasoning to prove it* you add, "we 
believe the foregoing passage contains the appropriate answer 
to Judge L's, argument." I have just shown sir, that thevt& 
you are making of what you call moral power, is something 
very different from mere »• counsel," advice or " persuasion*" 
and I believe still, that though the Constitution does allow 
every man freely to exercise the power of " persuasion" pro- 
perly so called, yet this will not permit any man to do mis. 
chief, under the pretext of exercising that right; and especially 
that it will not tolerate any sueh mischief as I have just shewn 
you to be doing under that pretext. 

I could wish sir, that you had stated my argument fairly, 
as it is. This I had a right to clatm oC you an! to expect, but 
I am constrained to say, that in this you have disappointed me. 
In one place you represent me as contending that "because 
the Constitution binds every man in the free States, so to res- 
pect slavery as to let alone all attempts to disturb by force, the 
*?av« bolder in the enjoyment of his slave property; beciuae, 



0* 

jfec.' 1 Hew sir, my argument in this point Is this— Tfte Cote 
«iitution binds every man in the free states to respect, nor "sU« 
*ery," as you state it, but ikoselaws of the slave holding States, 
by virtue of which our slaves are secured to us. And willyoU/ 
undertake to say, that the Constitution does not bind you tor- 
respect these laws," how much soever you may detest *» slav 
very'' itself? I believe you will not ventuie to say so. Again 
you represent me as claiming, by my argument, the protection 
of the Constitution, only against being ''disturbed by force " — 
My argument contains i\o such restriction. We claim on tfre 
contrary, its protection against all disturbance, whether by 
force or coerfion of any kind, or in any other way, where that 
disturbance becomes annoying, as the disturbance you are *-x* 
citing certainly is, Un'ess taken in this extent, what is the 
Constitution worth on this subject? Just nothing; it is vain and 
nugatory. You represent the " premises' 1 of my argument as 
showing nothing more than " the defect of power in Congress, 
or the free states, to interfere by direct legislation, with the 
system of slavery, ,ts existing in the slave holding states, and 
you add, " It is the de ect of power which he calls a sanction;*" 
a sanction of our laws, is your meaning, if I understand you. 
L»ook again sir at my argument, and you will see, that my 
#* premises" assert something more than that. They assert' 
that " The Constitution of the United States binds every man 
of the free states to respect those laws of the slave holding states 
by virtue of which we hold our slaves," and to leave every slave 
pwner in the peaceable and undisturbed enjoyment of the right 
to hold his slaves. Here is a positive obligation asserted, as 
resulting from the constitution, and binding " eveiy man in tho 
free states" to re&pect our laws, and to leave us in the peacea- 
ble and undisturbed enjoyment of the rights in question, which 
we derive from those laws. And this constitutional obligation, 
together with " the defect of power" you mention, is ^yhat I 
consider as sanctioning our laws. That defect of power, in- 
deed, I consider as one of the sources, from which the obliga» 
tiou arises, but not its only source, as I shall presently shew. 
You do me great injustice then, when in your statement of my 
argument, you lepresent me as arguing for that defect of po\y* 
er alone. 

Now, if the constitutional obligation just mentioned exists, 
you will, I think, hardly venture to deny, that it completely 
sanctions our laws, on this subject. If the constitution " binds 
every wan in the free states to respect" our laws, as my argu. 



lD«Dt asserts, it thereby most clearly sanctions those Iaw§ ; safl 
if it sanctions those lawa it thereby sanctions all the rights 
which are held under and by virtue of their provisions. To 
cay that it sanctions our laws on this subject, and, at the same 
time, leaves men at liberty to attack and destroy the rights 
given by those laws, is absurd Nay it is a contradict. on — it 
supposes the constitution to sanction those laws, and at the 
same time not to sanction them at all: for the very essence of 
the law, consists in the rights it confers, and the corresponding 
obligations it enjoins. If this be so, the rest follows, viz. that 
the constitution binds every man kt to leave us in the peaceable 
and undisturbed enjoyment of the right" in question. 

Does the obligation to respect our laws on this subject ex- 
ist, as I contend it does? That it does exist you have your 
self admitted, as is shewn in my first argument, No. 1.— But 
let us look into the Constitution itself. Art. 4, Sec. 3. " No 
person held to service, or labour in one State, under the laws 
thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any 
law, or regulation therein, be discharged from fcuch service or 
labour; but shall be delivered upon the claim of the party to 
whom such service is due." Here by " persons held to service 
or labour" it is clear, that the slaves held to labour in the par- 
ticular States, especially in the South, are intended. This I 
believe is universally conceeded. But how held to service or 
labour' Let the constitution answer. It is " by virtue of the 
law9" oi the particular States,, by which persons held to ser- 
vice, i. e. slaves are held, and the lt nckim" of the service, 
founded on those laws, is expiessly ratified, and alh.wed.— - 
Such persons held to service or labour under the laws of 
*ny particular State, on their escaping into another state," 
shall not be " discharged from such service or labour," 
■but shall be delivered," — to whom? " To the party to 
whom such service is due." How ** due?" " By virtue of 
the laws" of the particular state. Here, you see, the constu 
tution itself acknowledges the master's right to his slave,— to 
h\m the M service or labour" is due: and due too, " by virtue 
of the laws" of the particular state. It would, I believe, be 
difficult to conceive an article, that would more clearly and 
strongly sanction our laws on this subject, than the one before 
us does; or that would more clearly sanction the right of the 
master to the " service" of his slave. But the article contains 
the clause** in consequence of any law, or regulation therein:" 
and you catch at this, and you would have us believe that tbie 



clause destroy® the whole effect of the article* sav e only as it, 
forbids u Congress, and the free states to interfere, by diretf 
legislation^ with the system of slavery in the slave holding sta- 
tes.'* To this you confine the whole effect of the article? If 
so, it is not worth a straw. If this be all, the frames of the 
constitution, than whom men of mora profound wisdom and 
knowledge never lived, have, in ordaining this article, been 
guilty of enacting a piece of mere solemn mockery. What? 
gravely, and solemnly recognise this right, and forbid either th© 
National or State Legislatures, .to interfere with* it* .or to do 
iny act that may injure, or destroy it: and, T at the same time, 
permit men, as individuals, and without law to form combina. 
lions, and adopt, and pursue just such measures as they please, 
openly, and with the avowed design to destroy that right! Can 
this be believed? Common sense at once denounces the sup* 
position as absurd I Aud yet this is the constitution you con- 
tend for 1 If this be so, my conclusion remains firm aud un» 
shaken; and I repeat, '> Every act of the people, either of the 
free, or of the slave holding states, tending to disturb us in the 
enjoyment of the right in question, or to deprive us ofeit, is a 
plain and positive violation of the constitution, of the United 
States, and of the slave holding states." 

But you say, this conclusion is too broadband includes eases, 
which, you take it for granted, are no violation of the constitu- 
tion; and you mention your 4l discussion of slavery," as one of 
those cases. And how do you undertake to shew, that mjr 
conclusion is defective? Why, it is by putting your own mean« 
ing on the word u disturb." which is found in my conclusions 
and you have put a long list of causes, in which you think th© 
disturbance they produce, is no violation of the constitution. 
1 am informed sir, that you have been bred to the profession 
©flaw. Now every lawyer knows, that whenever the phrais© 
disturbance in the enjoyment of a right is used, in the discus* 
sion of any legal question as a violation of the law, it means such 
a disturbance as amounts to an injury, which the law will take 
fcptice of, and redress: and every lawyei knows too, that of any 
slight, oi trivial disturbance, the law will take no notice: and I 
think, that to every unbiased reader, it is sufficiently apparent, 
on the very face of my argument, that I used the word in the 
former sense, and not in the latter as you have been pleased to 
suppose: and in that sense, I think, in all fairness, you were 
bound to understand it. And »t is certain, that, when under- 



ft 
« 

itood in that sense, there is not one of your cases that meetf 
my argument, or at all invaledates it. 

To conclude. If the foiegoing positions be correct and 
true, (and I call on you to disprove tbem, if you can,) then it 
is clear, that our right to hold our slaves, " under the laws" of 
the State in which we hv* , is recognized and sanctioned by the 
Constitution of the United States, What then is your abolU 
tion scheme? It is a combination, and a powerful one too, 
formed for the express purpose, and its proceedings carried on 
With the avowed design to destroy this right, which is thus 
sanctioned by the constitution: it is a combination whose pro* 
eeedings against this right, are jeopardizing the lives of thou- 
sands of their brethren, and placing our Union in the most 
imminent danger of being broken up and destroyed. Is it not 
then " a plain and positive violation cf the constitution of the 
United States" as well as *» of the laws ef the slave holding 
States?" Let common sense answer this queston. 

Now sir, to suppose that such a scheme can be nrged on, 
and pushed to its full extent, without producing the most fatal 
consequences* Strikes me as the extreme of folly: and what 
those consequences must be, is shown, 1 thing with sufficient 
clearness, in my argument. But to this part of it you make no 
"reply!'* f& L. 

P. S. One only of the pamphlets 13 now sent, the other not 
being yet out of press. As soon as it comes out it will be sent 
to you. 



No, 15. 
Abolitionism Reviewed. 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I proceed now to notice your " Reply" to my 3d No. And 
here let it be recollected, that the issue between us, is not con* 
fined to the single point, whether the scriptures authorize 
christians to hold slaves, as any one, from reading your re- 
ply, would almost necessarily be led to believe; no, the issue 
is much broader-r-it is, Whether the Scriptures do at all sanfr 
tion slavery? I contend that they do. You deny it. 

Inozder to place the point, disputed in your " reply," dis- 
tinctly before the reader, J deem it nectssary here to recaptulate 
the argument, at least in part. One of my arguments is tha 
following, (No. 1.) At the very time when the Apoetle wrote, 
millions of slaves were held ty their masters, in the Roman Era. 



n 

pire, nhdbr the laws of that Empire, exactly as oor e!avei art 
fceld, under tAe laws of our country; — that the Roman law* 
were then the " ordinances of men," to which the Apostle ex* 
press'y commands all me, and especially all christians, to whom 
his epistle is particulaily directed, to" submit themselves*"— 
His words are, " submit yourselves to every oidinance of man* 
for the Lords sake, whether it be the king, as supreme; or 
unto governors sent by him, for the punishment of evil doers, 
and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of 
God, &c." 1 Pet. 2, 13. To those Roman laws then, under, 
and by virtue of which, such vast numbers of slaves were held, 
all men are expressly commanded, by the scripture, to u sub* 
mil themselves." How then, are men, and especially chria* 
tians, released from the obligation to " submit themselves" to 
exactly similar laws, as our laws, in this point certainly are, at 
this day? Clearly they are not so released; — the obligation 
unquestionably remains now, as it waa then. And if this be 
bo. it is clear, and undeniable, that the Scriptures do give a 
eompleat sanction to our laws, under which we hold our slaves; 
and thus they do compleatly warrant us, in holding those slaves* 
This argument alone, I contend, is conclusive. Nor does it 
rest on the single passage alone, which 1 have quoted. Rom. 
13, 1 , 7, is to the same effect, and so are many other passages. 
In truth, scarcely a duty can be mentioned, which is mora 
•trictly enjoined t throughout the Scriptures, than that of obe- 
dience to the laws of the country in which we live. 

In your reply to the above argument, you do not deny, that 
cur laws are " ordinances o{ roan" intended by the Apostle: 
but to escape the force of my argument, you undertake to 
made a distinction, between j submission" and •» obedience," 
to human laws; as if it were possible to "submit" to a law, 
without obeying it. This supposed distinction, I shewed in my 
answer, to be without a difference, and altogether futile, (No* 
3,) and to that answer the reader is refered. 

But you contended further, that u it would be difficult to 
prove," with the requisite certainty, " that any convert to 
Christianity, in their, (the Apostles time,) continued a slave 
holder." In answer to this I shewed, that it is of no conse* 
quence at all, in this argument, whether this can be proved, 
or not. On this part of my argument, I still insist; and I beg 
the reader to turn to it; as you have made no answer to it, (at 
Jeast 1 have seen none,) and thus admitted the force of it. 



*~ But I went further, and proved, from the writing of St* Paul 
himself,*that "converts to Christianity" did, in his time, contin- 
ue slaveholders, after their conversion. This^fact you contra- 
vert, and endeavar to disprove, in your " Reply;" and this is 
now the point in question between us. 

And how do you undertake to invalidate the proof I pro- 
duced? It is*, by a criticism on some of the passages I cited, 
which I shall now proceed to examine. It is certainly a criti- 
cism, which the passages will not bear. Onr passage is as fol- 
lows, " Let as many servants" — the word translated servants* 
we know properly signifies slaves, in the state of slavery, as I 
shewed in my argument, and which you do not deny; and con- 
sequently the true reading is, " Let as many slaves as are un- 
der the yoke, coufrHheir own masters worthy of all honor, that 
the name of God, and his doctrine be not blasphemed. And 
they that have believing masters, let them not despise them be-^ 
cause they are brethren; but rather do them service, because 
they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. 1 IJm. 
6.1.1. 

In your reply to my argument, you divide this passage, and 
say, that " the first clause is clearly confined, in its application 
to slaves of unbelieving masters, and of them it speaks, as be- 
ing i under the yoke.' " I shall presently shew, that it is not 
so Confined. Meantime, I thank you for this admission. Here 
you admit, what indeed cannot be denied, that in the Apostlea 
time, there actually were " unbelieving masters, who held 
" slaves;" and that if is of those that the Apostle " speaks."— 
And what does he say of them? Why he commands those 
" slaves" " to count their own master worthy of all honor:"— 
and elsewhere, Tit. 2. 9. he commands the same " slaves," 
" to be obedient to their own masters, and to please them well 
in all things, &c." Let it be recollected then, that at that very 
time, millions of men and women, in the Roman Empire, ex- 
tending over nearly the whole civilized world, were Held in 
slavery; and that the Apostle's command reaches to them all: 
'*• let as many" says he, " as are under the yoke," i. e. all that 
are under that yoke, " count their own masters worthy of all 
honor," — and " be obedient" unto them, — let this be recol- 
lected, and it is, I contend, clear and undeniable that the hold- 
ing of slaves is recognized, and sanctioned, by the passage be- 
fore us, as well as by the other text just now cited from the 
epistle to Titus. You dp not indeed deny this; on the contrary 
your language clearly admits it, when you say, that the clause 

8 



fit 

under consideration " is confined to the slaves* &c." It m 
indeed undeniable. But you would confine it to unbelieving 
masters. 

Who, then, are to be counted " unbelieving," and who are 
"believing masters?" Are the Abolitionist competent? are 
they authorized to judge, and decide/or «*, in this matter? I 
believe not. Whether we are " unbelieving^masters," or not, is 
a question/or us to consider, not for you. If we are such, our 
right is clear, as we have just seen. Count us ail such then, if 
you will, and then you are clearly bound to let us alone, in the 
enjoyment of our right. But your counting us " unbelieving 
roasters, will not make us such; and we contend that, as be 
•lieving masters," our right to hold our slaves is sanctioned^ by 
the passage before us, as well as by other scriptures. 

But you say, " the first clause is confined, in its application 
to unbelieving master, 1 ' and that ■" the whole passage, as you 
think, implies that," in case of believing masters, " a radical 
change has taken place in their condition; that their believing 
masters no longer held them as absolute property:" i. e. if I 
understand you, that they no longer held them at aii t as slaves. 
This, you think, " the whole passage" shews. Let us test this. 
The second clause clearly refers to the first, for its meaning, 
without which, it is altogether unintelligable. Who are the 
persons spoken of in the second clause, " they that" have 
"believing masters?" Not "believing misters," for then, 
believing masters, will be said to "have believing masters/* 
which is nonsense. Is it those who are called" brethren," 
then? If so, then those who are brethren" are said to " have 
believing masters," i. e. masters who are their christian breth- 
ren. But this, of course, you will not allow, as it contradicts 
the idea that they were free, which is what you contend for: If 
then, the pronoun they in the clause " they that have believ- 
ing masters" cannot be refered, as it certainly cannot, either 
to the " masters" or to tbe "brethren" spoken of in the second 
clause, then the persons it refers to are not to be found at all 
an the second clause; for there are no other persons mentioned 
in that clause. We must then of necessity look elsewhere to 
find out who "they that have believing masters" are, else the 
whole second clause is without meaning. 

Where tken are we to look for those persons? They are not 
found in the second clause: We must therefore look into the 
first; and here, we at once see who they are;— that they are the 
tfery persons who, in the first clause are expressly called " sla* 



«e» under the yoke" which, aa we have }utt seen, your ow* 
language admits to be slaves: — to these the pronoun " they," 
in the first sentence of the second clause, clearly refers. " And 
they that have believing masters." Here the conjunction 
44 and," joins the two clauses, and shews them to be connected 
with each other; and the personal pronoun " they" refers to 
some persons mentioned some were in the passage: — those 
persons, we have just now seen, are not found in the second 
clause; and if we look into the first, we find no persons men- 
tioned there, except u slaves," and " their own masters," to 
whern it can possible refer; But to refer it to " Masters" we 
have seen, is absurd. It remains therefore, that the pronoun 
14 they,'' in the begining of the second clause, clearly refers to 
the " slaves under the yoke," mentioned in the first clause.— 
And hence the clear and undeniable sense of the passage i3, 
" And they," i. e. the " slaves" that " are under the yoke"-" 
" that have believing masters, let them not despise them, be- 
cause they are brethren." 

Here then we see, that 4he Apostle speaks expressly of 
" slaves" " that have believing masters." But if, as you con- 
tend those slaves become free, on their master's becoming a 
christian, then they no longer had any master at all; and then 
by calling them slaves, the Apostle's language would become 
nonsense; for they would no longer be slaves at all: and so it 
would, when he speaks of " believing masters," and calls them 
44 masters" of those slaves, as we see he does; for then, they 
were no longer " masters" of those slaves at all. The com- 
mand also, which he gives to those slaves, not to " despise" 
their masters, would become absurd; for they would have no 
41 masters" to despise. When the Apostle speaks of slaves, 
and expressly calls them slaves, does he mean freemen? When, 
speaking of those slaves, he says they have 4> believing mas- 
ters," does he mean that thpy have no masters at all? Does he 
mean, that those whom he thus expressly calls u masters," 
were not masters at all? When he commands those slaves 
not to despise their masters, does he mean that those same 
slaves have no ma3ters at all, and therefore no masters to des- 
pise? When he speaks of 44 believing masters," and calls them 
such, and commands their slaves, also calling them slaves, not 
to 44 despise" their " masters," does he mean that there could 
be no such masters? nor any slaves of such maFters? and that 
too, when he expressly speaks of slaves, 44 that have believing 
masters?" I believe sir, the Apostle well understood bis own 



•O 

words; and that he every where means what he says, and 
speaks of things as they were, not, as they were not] — that when, 
he speaks of " beleiving masters," he means those who are 
really masters, and not those who are not masters at all; and 
rthat when he speaks of slaves, he does not mean freemen, 
but real slaves; and if so, it is clear, from this passage, that, in 
the. Apostle's time, there were real slaues, who had " believing 
master**" in other words, there were real christians, who did 
continue io hold slaves, after their conversion. To deny this, 
and say, as you do, u that their believing masters no longer 
held them," (their slaves,) " under the yoke" as slaves, after 
their convertion, is to charge the Apostle with all the absurdir 
ties I have just now pointed oat: But that, certainly, never can 
be admitted. 

It is in vain then, that you strive to get clear of this obvious 
conclusion, by saying, that "the last clause differs widely in 
phraseology " from the first, — that " they who have believing 
masters'' are " not" those " who are under the yoke." We 
have just seen that the persons said to be under the yoke," i. e. 
slaves, are clearly f* they that have believing masters;" — that 
to refer the pronoun " they' 1 to^ny other persons mentioned in 
either ofthe*clauses, is to devest the second clause of all mean-* 
nig, and make nonsense of it; nor are there any other persona 
emptied, in the whole passage, to whom it can possibly be re- 
fere d. 

But you say that " they," the persons having u believing 
masters," I take to be your meaning, " were not exhorted to 
count their masters worthy of all honor, but not to despise 
them because they are biethren." I answer, the Apostle calls 
them slaves, and says they " have believing masters:" and he 
commands "as many slaves, as are under the yoke, i. e. all 
Slaves under the yoke, to " count their own masters worthy of 
all honor:" — and if all, then clearly the slaves of believing 
masters are included in the command. And are believing 
masters lesss 4 worthy of all honor," than unbelieving ones 
are? Surely not. Nor is the command, 'not to despise their 
roasters, at all inconsistent with that which requires them to 
44 count their own master worthy of all honor,'' but rather in 
affermance of it, as the command next following to tl do them 
service," also clearly is. Does the command then, " not," 
to " despise" his master, set the slave free? Does that re- 
quiring the slave to do his master service, set him free? It is 
absurd to say bo. Does their being " brethren" then, 8et tht 



61 

glare free? To flay so, is to contradict the Apostle, who ex- 
pres3ly speaks of tlaves % and says M they have believing mas- 
ttrs" and at the same time says, " they are brethren." If 
free, I repeat, they had no masters at all. And hence it is 
clear, that in the Apostle's account, the relation of "brethren," 
as christians, is not at all incompatible with that of master and 
slave. And in fact, experience abundantly proves, that the re- 
lation of christian brethren, is perfectly compatible with all 
the relations of civil society, slavery itself included. Of this 
numerous cases in the South are complete proof. 

" If they had still been under the yoke, in the condition of 
real slavery," (here your own explanation agrees with mine, 
that, being 1 * 4 under the yoke" means being " in the condition 
ef real slavery,")— if they had been in this condition you think, 
* 4 there would have been but little need of this exhortation"— 
not to despise their masters. If on the contiary, they had been 
free, as you contend, there would have been no need of it at 
all. Besides, in, that case, the exhortation would be ridicul- 
ous—it would be exhorting them not to u despise" their " be~ 
Sieving masters/' who were not their masters at all ! 

But admitting those persons to be i« in the condition of real 
slavery," there was great need of this command. For, the 
slightest insight into human nature will shew, bow strongly 
every slave is inclined to get above his station, to think himself 
equal with his master " because," or on account of their being 
* l brethren," and to become insolent and disobedient,~~ta 
* dispise" his master on that account This evil naturally 
grows out of their new relations, as christians, and, as chris*. 
tians, brethren to each other. And every one who knows what 
Christianity is knows, what contentions, and strife might thenc® 
arise, that might prove ruinous, to both master and slave, as 
christians. The command therefore was both wise and ne- 
cessary, allowing the condition of master and slave to continue. 
But, as this cause of dissention does not exist, except between 
Christians, so in no other case is it at all necessary: and accord- 
ingly, it is with great propriety, that the Apostle directs the 
command to those only who " have believing masters,"— to 
whom their masters are ".brethren," as christians. In no 
other case was it necessary at all; — to no other case can it ap- 
ply, because in none other, can the master and his slave be 
called " brethren,"— and if, as you contend, the slave becomes 
free, on his master and him becoming christian brethren, then 
as we have just seen, tbe slave no longer has any master at all, 



And the command, not to despise bis matter, which he lias aot # 
becomes absurd and ridiculous. 

Thus we see, that your whole criticism on this passage, (I 
have examined the whole of it,)jcompletely fails; and the proof 
I have drawn from it remains, as I considered it, full and con- 
clusive, that "some, at least of the early converts, did continue" 
to hold slaves, after they become christians. And if it was 
lawful then, for christians, to hold slaves, as this passage proves 
it was, it certainly cannot be unlawful now. 

You say it has u escaped my attention" that the Apostle's 
every where " prescribe the duties of both parties to the rela- 
tion designated," where the relation is allowed to exist. Not 
so. 1 contend for slavery, only as governed by the rules pres~ 
cribed by the Apostles: and these rules, I have thought, and 
still think, every one may read for himself in the New Testa- 
ment. All slaves, you know, are servants, though some ser- 
vants are not slaves, — and I did think it sufficiently obvious, 
that it was to the rules prescribed to masters and servants gen* 
erally, that I refered. And let me add, that in prescibing 
these rules, the Apostles use a word, that signifies Wave;, as 
well as all other servants. 

This being all I contend for, you do me great injustice in 
representing me,.asyou every where do, as contending for art 
unrestrained lisence in masters, to exercise all manner of cru* 
elties upon their slaves. All such crulties — all unnecesary 
severity, I have every where condemned, as\zn abuse of the 
master's authority, for which he must give a strict account 
hereafter. 

I quoted 1. Cor. 6. 31, "Art thou called being a servant, 
care not for it "—a slave; you know the original signifies: but 
the text adds, " but if thou mayest be made free, prefer it rath* 
er." This latter clause, you think makes it the duty of the 
slave to prefer freedom to bondage. " But," you add, *' if it 
be the duty of slaves to prefer freedom to bondage, how clearly 
is it the correlative duty of the master to grant it? A complete 
petetio principh this; a mere begging the question. It is de- 
nied, that the clause lays any such " duty," on the slave. It 
simply tells him to " prefer" freedom, " if he may be made 
free." " if, —how? Plainly by some lawful means. But 
what if he cannot be thus u made free?" Why then the Apos- 
tle says to him, " Art thou called, being a slave? care not for 
it," — remain as thou art, and submit to thy condition as it is.— 
This is the plain import of the passage; and it means nothing 







•9 

more, except that for which I quoted it, tiz. that it clearly ah 
tows the slave to remain in the condition of a slave, and con= 
sequently, as clearly allows slavery to exist. S. L. 



No. 16. 
Abolitionism Reviewed, 

To the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

I have just received your No. 3, of Vol. 2, in which yoo 
have published my 4th No. with your notes in reply to it. In 
your notes I find but little that will not be seen to be substan- 
tially answered in what I have already said, and to that I refer, 
as my answer. A few things I shall heie notice. 

You cite our Declaration of Independence: I, in answer, 
appeal to the constitution and laws of our country, which com- 
pleatly sanction and establish all the inequality we contend for, 
in the condition of mankind. 

The comment you request, on the rule, Do unto others^ SfC. 
is already given in several Nos. of my work, particularly in my 
" Review of Abotitionism*" It is a rule of which your whole 
abolition scheme is a gross violation, with respect to your 
brethren in the South. 

You are " at a loss to determine," to what u servants" the 
passage cited against me, by the Ref. H. Johnson, from Deut. 
25, 15, refers. It is impossible that it can refer to ihe "bond- 
men," mentioned Levit. 25, 4*; for that would set those two 
passages at irreconcilable variance with each other. His con- 
struction therefore never can be the true one. 

u Incendiarism." You say " there is" already" a magazine 
of combustibles under my house." If so, all we ask of you is, 
not to set fire to the train. But " you come" you say " as 
ministers, not of death but of life" to us; — and at the same 
time you come with your abolition firebrands in your hands, 
which you are striving to scatter far and wide among us! — a 
complete proof that you are unaccountably ignorant of the true 
state of things in the South, and know not what you do. 

In stating the Rev. H. Johnson's argument, I said, " Our 
laws on the subject of slavary, he says are unconstitutional."— 
You reply, and say " you have looked through Mr. Johnson's 
essay, and can discover no assertion of this kind." Very well; 
then, my denial of an assertion, which he did not make, goes* 
for nothing, I have mislaid the paper, so that J am not now 



$4 

•ble to verify this matter., If 1 'erred in stating his argument* 
I stand ready to correct the error, as I always do, in every case. 
In this case we see that the error, if 1 did err$ is wholly unim- 
portant. 

You will find an answer to your 12th note^ in my " Review 
of Abolitionism." On this point Abolitionists know not what 
they do. Your 15th note is answered in several parts of my 
work. 

I have said, that our slaves " were already slaves, when 
brought among us." You answer, " They were freemen in 
N Africa." So they may have been, and yet be slaves when 
brought among us, as they certainly were. We, certainly, did 
not originally enslave them. But you add, " they were made 
captives by the slave trader, or his provider." Who were the 
chief slave traders, in bringing them from Africa? Northern 
men, I believe, chiefly; and their providers," I believe were all 
Africans. But you say further, they become property, or 
slaves truly in America. They continued property in Ameri- 
ca; but they certainly were property in Africa, and were sold 
and brought there, as property before they were brought to 
America. 

You treat our plea of self preservation as "vain," another 
proof, that you are strangely ignorant of our real condition in 
the South. If too many slaves are imprudently brought to the 
South, as you intimate, does that afford you any excuse for ex- 
citing them to insurrection, as you are continually, in effect, 
doing, by your abolition scheme? 1 trou not. It is matter/or 
mr consideration, not for yours. 

Paintings of the horrors of slavery, in which you so copiously 
indulge, — taunting reflection?, like those contained in your 
19th note, which it would be so easy to retort, all this sir, is out 
of place in this argument. 

And now, I have performed the task I undertook* when I 
first set down to write on this subject; which was, not to engage 
in an intermenable controversy with you; for I was then fully 
aware, that it would be easy for you to find plausible means of 
spining it out, to an endless lenght. My object was, to place 
before the public, according to the best of my abilities, the 
true grounds on which the Sonth rest her cause; which, so far 
as I was informed, had not then been done. This task Ihave 
bow performed; and I confidently rest our cause on the proofs, 
and arguments I have produced, With this request only, that 
«very reader will discard prejudice* and consider my argu- 



•f 

Kienti with candour, and impartiality, fixing his eje singly 01 
truth; for, on truth alone can either of us stand. 

Let me only add, that it has been my endeavor, to confine 
the argument to two points, on which I consider the whole 
cause !o rest. 1. To shew that the Constitution, and Laws 
of our country, do fully sustain u*, in the rghts we claim. And 
on this point, i do contend, that our cause is* fully sustained. 

And 2, to shew, that the right we claim, under the Consti* 
tution and Laws of our country is not condemned, or abroga* 
ted, but confirmed, and santioned, by the divine law, as laid 
down in the scriptures. And on this point also, I contend, that 
our cause is fully sustained. 

To conclude; let me repeat to you. that the question, Whe- 
ther, as christians, we can lawfully hold our slaves? is, in its 
very nature, a question of conscience, in which the Abolitionists 
ere not our judges. It is a question for our consideration^ 
not for theirs, — one with which they have nothing to do; 
and let me add, that we do feel ourselves as capable of exam- 
ining, understanding, and deciding this question torrectly, as 
they are,— that we have, carefully examined it, and that our 
mindes are made up concerning it. Your " counsel," or ad» 
vice, or ** persuasion," as you strangely, and unaccountably 
would have us believe your sirren song of" moral power" to 
be,— all this we have heard, and well considered: yes sir, we 
underslaud it thoroughly; and we tell you again, that as to any 
hope, or prospect, of its ever accomplishing your object, it is 
tain, utterly and totally vain: nay, it is worse than vain; its 
whole, and only effect is, and always must be, so long as hu- 
man nature remains what it now is, to excite resentment, and 
exasperation, to stir up violence, and involve our country in 
civil, and servile war; and, what is still more to be deplored, 
to devide the Christian Church against herself, and bring two 
great bodies of Christians, in our country, in hostile array 
against each other and set them to shedding each other's blood! 
Treat this not as fancy, or fiction. The whole South sir, if 
unanimous on this subject— fully convinced, that the very day 
they yield to your demands, they thereby seal their own ruin— 
and they are equally convinced that no law, either divine, or 
human, requires them so to yield; and, be assured sir, they 
have taken their ground, and never will yield. Persist then, 
in your scheme, and, you leave to the South but one alterna 
live;— and tirci alternative she will most assuredly adopt,— #h» 

• 



6#3 

will prepare for defence, and will defend bereself to the last 
extremity. S. L, 

P. S. Though I here conclude, I do not say that I shall 
write no more on this subject. Should I hereafter see any thing 
that requires it, I may again take up my pen, 



*f 



To Dr. William E. Channlng. 

Rev'd. Sir, — 

Your letter addressed to James G. Birney, 
dated Boston, 1st Nov. 1837, and published in the New York 
Advertiser and Express of Jan. 4th, 1837, has reached the 
South, and I have just seen and lead it. As it is printed in a. 
public journal, I presume with your consent, and is thus before 
the public; I consider ever one at liberty to notice it, and an- 
swer it. And as the subject is of great importance, I trust all 
those Editors who have published you letter, will as friends to 
truth and to their country, readily give a place in their columns, 
to whatever can be fairly taid in answer to it. 

The subject on which you write, is one of the most fearful 
importance, one that comes home to the bosom of every man 
in the nation. The furious discussion of it by the Abolitionists, 
has already stirred up scenes of violence, and agitated the 
whole nation. Already has it shaken our Union to its very 
centre; and it requires not the spirit of prophecy to foresee, that 
if they are permitted to go with their scheme, they will, e'er 
long, bring on a scene of civil dissention and violence, that 
must prove fatal to our Union, and to the liberties of our coun- 

And do they expect, that in the way they are going, they 
will accomplish their object? Do they imagine, that they can 
persuade the people of the South, voluntarily to comply with 
their demands? Suppose, for a moment, they were to do so,— 
what follows? A servile war sir, would be the inevitable con* 
sequence. And how would that war end? It would end, in 
the destruction of thousands, probably in the extermination of 
nearly the whole negro race, and in reducing the remnant of 
them again to a state of slavery, probably far worse than that 
which now exists. That such would be the consequence, there 
is not, I believe, a single intelligent man in the South, who en- 
tertains the smallest doubt. And is it believed, that with this 
conviction firmly fixed in their minds, the men of the South will 
ever consent to the measure required of them by the Aboli- 
tionists? It is folly to expect it. They would be traitors to 



*s 

themselv ei, and to'fheir families, and 1 will add, to their coun- 
try too, were they to do so. 

You have treated these fears as idle and visionary, which I 
shall afterwards notice. 1 will just observe in this place, that 
Southern men, who Jive in the midst of the seen, and have the 
whole under their own observation; are in no need of the in* 
eendiars publications of Northern Abolitionists, who have never 
witnessed the scene, and, consequently, can know but little or 
nothing of it, to enlighten them on this point. Permit me alio, 
on this point, to refer you to a smalt pamphlet, entitled " Abo- 
litionism Reviewed," which I beg leave to present to you with 
this letter. 

Southern men will, certainly, never voluntarily yield to your 
demands: What then remains, to give success to your aboli- 
tion scheme? To stir up insurrection, and force the measure 
upon them? This is the only remaining alternative. But this 
would be still more fatal to their scheme. It would necessa- 
rily end, just as the former altrenative would, — in the ruin of 
the negro race, and in fixing the chains of slavery more firmly 
upon them. In every view then, abolitionism is destined to fail 
in accomplshing its object. And if so, it is in itself essentially 
a scheme of gratuitous mischief. 

And why should Southern men voluntarily accede to the dei 
inands of the Abolitionists? Does any law of our country re- 
quire it of them? No; the Constitution and laws of their count 
try are al) in their favor. Is their refusal, in any wise injuri- 
ous to the people of the free States? does it, in any degree dit 
minish their comforts, or their happiness in this world? No, 
not in the least; but in many things it serves to increase them. 
But you say, that the obligations of Christianity require it of 
them. We deny it, and say, that Christianity lays no such ob- 
ligation on us; but on the contrary, we affirm, that it requires 
the abolitionists to abandon their worse than useless scheme, 
and let us alone. And here again, I beg leave to refer you to 
the small work before mentioned, and also to another on the 
same subject, entitled •* Abolitionism Reviewed," which 1 also 
ask leave to present to you. You may differ with us on this 
last point; but if so, 1 ask, Who made the Abolitionists our 
judges, on this question of censcience? Who authorised them, 
to condemn us as sinners against God, and then to wage war 
against us, and send \he\rjire brands among us, in order to 
compel us to submit to their judgment} In every view sir, their 
attack upon ui it without even the abadow of justification. 



m 

Too eerapfain of the violence the Abolitionists have met with; 
the several acts of which, you represent as so many ** deliber- 
ate, systematic efforts, t© wrest from its adherent the bberty 
of speech and of the pi ess.*" and you represent the Abolition 
ists as ** the most conspicuous advocates" of that liberty — 
* k They are sufferers,'* you say, " for the freedom of thought, 
and of the piess, and in maintaining this freedom, against in- 
tuit and violence, they deserve a place among Us most honored 
defenders." And a little lowet down you say, •* The first 
systematic efforts to strip the citizens of freedom of speech, 
they, (the Abolitionists,) •* have resisted with invincible reso- 
lution." Here you ingeniously associate the cause ot Aboli- 
tionism, with the cause of civil liberty itself; foi every man feels, 
that if the freedom of the press were destroyed, civil libeity its 
•elf would soon be no more. " To wrest from it* adherent*" 
to " strip the citizens" of this libeity Who are " its adher» 
ents? ' who are" the citizens," here intended? The plain im- 
port of your terms includes the whole American people: in 4 
thus you represent those acts of violence, as " systematic ef- 
forts to destroy the civil liberties of the whole American peo» 
pie! Was this intended to produce tffect? to alarm the fears 
of the whole American people, and induce them to join the 
ranks of the Abolitionists, in order to save their civil liberty 
from being destroyed? It is admirably calculated to produce 
that effect, with all who rely on your account of the matter, 
and do not take the trouble to esamine, and judge for them- 
selves. Strange that you did not perceive, that Abolitionism 
is, in its very nature, utterly at war with civil liberty,— ih® 
most dangerous enemy it has to contend with in our country. 

Is this disputed? Here is the proof, it is readily conceded, 
that violence, whatever the pretence, is hostile to civil liberty, 
and must destroy it, if suffered to rage without restraint. But 
in the case before us, Who stirred up the violence, of which 
you complain? It is plain, that it was stirred up bv the insult- 
ing, exasperating publications of the Abolitionists themselves. 
Abolitionism has been the sole cause of it all. And if so, do 
we want more, to prove, that Abolitionism is, in its very na« 
ture, hostile to civil liberty? It is obviously impossible, in our 
country, for this abolition scheme to be urged on, in the way 
it has been, without stirring up more and mote violence. Nov? 
of violence, not freedom, but slavery is the i at ral offspring. 
And here too we see, who the real enemies to Civil liberty are. 
T&ev ire pre»eminently those whe stir ip the violence, and 



70 

obstinately persevere in doingsso. And who are these? They 
are the Abolitionists, who, in open and avowed contempt, and 
opposition to the Constitution, and laws of 'their country, are 
scatteung their incendiary publications among us, with the 
avowed design to destroy an important right, which the Con- 
stitution and laws of our country secures to us; a right too, 
which we consider as clearly sanctioned by the divine law: nor 
is this all; their scheme is jeopardizing the lives, of thousands 
of their countrymen. And do you expect, that any thing but 
a scene of the most dangerous, and destructive violence, can 
be the result of such conduct? It is plain sir, that nothing else 
can be the result. Those soi disant philanthropists then, whefo 
their scemes is fairly unmasked, are seen to be acting^the part of 
the most dangerous enemies to the civil liberty of their country. 
Think not sir, that I am the advocate of the scenes of vio- 
lence you complain of. No man, I believe, disapproves of 
them moie strongly than I do. But I would place the censure 
where it belongs, and apply the remedy there, by imposing 
properJJegaZ restraints on that licentiousness of the press, which 
is the cause of the violence. Until this is done, — until the cause 
is removed in some way, the effect will follow; and we have 
just see how fatal the consequences must be. 

If you mean to represent the Southern people as hostile to 
the freedom of the press, you do them great injustice. They 
do indeed require a stop to be put to the mischievous publica- 
tions of the Abolitionists, for reasons which I have already as., 
signed; but on no other subject, I believe, have they ever askt 
ed, nor would they consent, to the slightest restriction of that 
liberty. And what if a stop were put to that dangerous and 
mischievious abuse of this liberty, by some adequate legal prot 
vission? Would that destroy the freedom of the press? J fan- 
cy not. Surely you will not contend, that the licensiousness of 
the press, constitutes any part of its proper freedom; and I am 
sure you have not now to learn, that as the press may be so 
used, as to do much good; so it may be employed in a way to 
become an engine of the most horrid mischief. 

But you treat our fears of danger from the publications of 
the Abolitionists, as idle and visionary. You say that those 
men do not « meditate" the stirring up of insurrection in the 
South. We look eir, at what they are in fact doing, and form 
our judgment from that; and judging from that, we find no 
room, even from the smallest doubt. What they " meditate," 
or intend, is nothing to the purpose. But, " as to the tendency 



*1 

of their measures," you say, "it is such only, as we have seen 
to belong to all human affairs;" not more to be dreaded, you 
think* than » a casuel innocent remark in conversation, which" 
you say, " may put wild projects into the unbalanced, or dis- 
ordered mind of some hearer." This Siren song sir, wiH not 
be listened to in the South. To men who have been born, 
and raised, and live amidst the scene, and from their own ob- 
servation are intimately acquainted with the two distinct classes 
of people, in the South, who know the real characters of both, 
^and understand all the springs of action, by which both are ac* 
tuated,— to these men, the tendency in question, is too palpable* 
and too powerful, to be for a moment doubted, and too dan- 
gerous not to excite the keenest resentment and indignation. 

But you think this danger " may be easily guarded against;" 
atpoor excuse sir, in the mouths of those, who gratuitously as- 
sail us, and bring the danger on us: — who thus, officiously in. 
termeddle with other people affairs, with which they have no 
©oncern. 

You say, " the great danger to slave holders comes from 
slavery itself, from the silent innovations of time, from political 
conflicts, and not from the writings of — you did not venture 
to say, — of the abolitionists, but, " of strangers." There may 
indeed be danger from the cause you assign; but does that war- 
rant, or at all excuse the abolitionists, who by throwing their 
foe-brands among us, are increasing the danger, on hundred 
fold? 

But abolitionists, you say, " have steadily condemned the 
resort to force, on the part of the oppressed:" And this you 
say, while they are, by the most powerful appeals to the pas- 
sions, and prejudices of m the oppressed," as you call them, in 
fact, instigating them to resort to force ! 

Again, you think that masters possess much power to u ex- 
clude incendiary influences, if such are threatened from 
abroad." So, the city in which you live, may possess ample 
means of extinguishing fires; but would that warrant any peo» 
pie " abroad," in sending incendiaries into your city, to set it 
on fire? Just as gratuitous, and uncalled for, as that would 
be, are the incendiary publications of the Abolitionists. 

But you speak ef m the strongly manifested purposes of the 
free States, to put forth their power, if required to suppress in- 
suprection;"— in obedience to the Constitution, no doubt, is 
^our meaning, since it is certain, that the Constitution requires 
all te do so. Now sir, so far as it might depend on the Aboli* 



ft 

CioRistf, the South, I em assure you, would entertain no hope 
of receiving any ait) at a!), in such a case. The whole people of 
the stattth, I am satified, have lost ail confidence in them. Not 
one of them, if known, would be trusted at all among up* Of 
the great body of our Northern brethren however, those who 
have not joined the abolitionists, we certainly do hope, and ex* 
peet better things* We rejoice in the belief, thai they are, aa 
they always have been, warmly, and firmly attached to the Con. 
etjtufion of their country, and that, whenever the case may re- 
quire it, they will readily put forth their power to inforce its ob- 
ligations. But you see sir, that in doing so, in this case, they 
must necessarily enforce the right we claim in this controversy: 
for, that right is clearly secured to us by the Constitution.— 
What then is the best means of enforcing those Constitutional 
obligations? Is it, in this case, for them supinely to look on, 
until the Abolitionists shall have actually stirred up insurrection 
in the South, (as, sooner or later, they certainly will do, if Buf- 
fered to go on with their scheme) and then, take arms, to aid us 
in suppressing it? and at the same time to leave Abolitionism 
in full operation, again to produce thf> same mischief, and so 
oft, again, and again? Nay, I am persuaded, that they will 
commit no such folly. They will see. on a full view of the case, 
that the peace, and the safety of their country, essentially de- 
pend on enforcing the Constitution, not in one part only, or in 
tome of it parts, but in all, without exception: — they will see, 
that the Abolitionists are openly, and avowedly labouring to 
destroy an important right, which is secured by the Constitu- 
tion to the people of thirtreen States of our Union;— and they 
wilt see too, that the sole, and only means of preserving our 
union, on which all our civil liberties depend, is to enforce the 
Constitution, in ihi» important point:— and they will see more* 
over, that the true, and only t (factual means of enforcing the 
constitution is, to put down all those who violate any of its pro* 
visions;— in this case, to put down the Abolitionists. Let thit 
be done; and then, there will be little danger of insurrection 
in the South; — until it is done, all is in jeopardy 

41 Must we then," you ask, "live in perpetuul silence? Do 
such chances make it our duty to shut our lips, on the subject 
of enormous wrong, and never send from the press a reproba- 
tion of the evil?'* Stay, a moment sir, call you that '* enor* 
mour wrong,*' which is so clearly sanctioned, and allowed, by 
the Constitution, end laws of our county? a Constitution, end 
h*§ too. to which* te the " Otdiotoeef of nea," too divine 



7% 

command strictly binds all men to' u submit themselves?" If 
that which is thus sanctioned, be " enormous wrong," I shall 
be glad to know how we are to be assured that any thing 
is right. Besides, you here take for granted the very thing in 
dispute which, 1 believe is not sound reasoning. I have shewn 
that Abolitionism is useless, nay worse than useless. Why then 
persist in it? 

You think there is no danger of the Union's being dissolved, 
by the Abolitionists persisting in their scheme. Come sir, and 
reside a few months in the South, and you may there find suf- 
ficient reason to change that opinion. " How is it," you ask, 
" that Abolitionists endanger the Union? And" the only re» 
ply, you say, M which you have heard is, that they exasperate 
the South." " And is it a crime," you ask again, " to exas- 
perate men?" I think, sir it is, unless you can shew some suf- 
ficient legal warrant for doing so; and that has not been shewn 
by the Abolitionists, in this controversy. They assume, and 
take for granted, that the South is guilty of "enormous wrong;" 
which we seriously and conscientiously deny; and then, because 
we refuse to submit to their judgment, they ll proceed to exas- 
perate the South," by their mischievous proceedings ! Call 
you this right? Be not deceived sir; let them go on, " exas- 
perating the South," and the time will come, when the South 
will bear it no longer; and then the Union is gone. And what 
will be gained by it? the freedom of the Slave? All history, and 
all experience answers No: but the distruction of all civil lib- 
erty will follow. Abolitionism, in our estimation, is not Chris- 
tianity, but its opposite, — a base counterfeit of it. 

WinMhe Abolitionists undertake to say, in answer to all this, 
that our opposition to their scheme, is to be ascribed wholly to 
the sordid motive of self interest? If so, we ask again, Who 
made them the judges of our motives? It is easy to arraign mo* 
tives; but you will,|I think, agree with me, Jhat that is no an* 
■wer to our arguments. No sir, though there may be many, 
who are actuated by that hase motive, yet, certainly, not all. 
Thousands in the South, and of slave holders too, are as con- 
scientious on this subject, as any in the North are, Abolitionists 
themselves not excepted; nor are they less deeply sensible of 
the weight, and importance, of their Christian duties; And 
I may add, that these men, in point of " moral worth," are not 
a whit behind the Abolitionists; by whom they are so grauit* 
ously, and pertinaciously assailed. 

ThuB air, I have expressed to you my sentiments on this ini~ 
9©jUnt subject—with freedom, but 1 bope,;and trust without 



74 

giving any just cause of offence; for, I am too deeply sensibla 
of the importance of that charity, or rather love, which the Gos- 
pel enjoins, ever willingly, or knowingly, to transgress against 
it. But, though we differ on the subject before us, as far as 
the East is from the West, yet I feel assured, that you will 
unite with me, in my fervent prayer to Him, who holds in his 
hands the hearts of all men, that it may please him to inter- 
pose, and pour the light of his truth into every mind, and every 
heart, and br^ng us all to unite, in restoring peace and harmo- 
ny to our beloved country. 

I am sir, with great respect, 

Yonr obedient servant, 

SETH LEWIS. 
Opelousas, La. ) 
1st March, 1837. $ 

P. S.-i-Ihave said, that Abolitionism is but a base counter- 
feit of Christianity; and this, I think, is sufficiently proved in 
ray work before refered to; and if so, it affords not the slightest 
justification for the exasperating work the Abolitionists are car- 
rying on, — a work, that leaves to the South no alternative, but 
to resist, — no possible hope of safety, in any other way. Will 
the Abolitionists still continue to treat our fears as idle and vis- 
ionary? If so, it is full proof, that they are utterly ignorant of 
the real state of things in the South. Wb.y> then will they per- 
sist? Does Christianity require it? For what? Is it to make 
Christians of the Southern people? This is your pretence. And 
does slavery prevent men from becoming Christians? The 
Apostle thought not, 1. Cor. 7. 21 & 1. Tim. 6. 1. 2. The 
M servants," spoken of in those passages, you know sir, were 
literally slaties,and so called, in the original Greek: And to this, 
experience agrees; for, in the South, we know, there are many, 
both of masters, and slaves,, who evince, by the whole tenor 
of their outward conduct, that they are real Christians. Here 
then, is full proof, that the truths of Christianity, without abo*. 
litionism, find their way into the hearts of men, in every station 
in life, — of the slave, as well as of the free. Christianity then, 
stands completely independent of your Abolition doctrines. It 
has not the slightest need of them, in order to make its way in 
the world. If this be so, it follows, that our opposition to your 
abolition scheme, is not as you pretend, an opposition to Chris- 
tianity', And this proves, what I said, that Abolitionism is but 
a base counterfeit of Christianity; and by obtruding itself in 
place of Christianity, it is really no better, than " Satan, trans- 
/termed into an angol of light." It serves to divide Christians, 



r§ 

to set them at variance, and stir up animosity, discord, and 
strife, between them: and ultimately, set them at war, and to 
the shedding of each other's blood ! It is a scheme of exas- 
peration, directed, not more against the enemies of Christianity, 
than it is against its friends, and serving to produce all the di- 
abolical mischief I have just mentioned.* 

How much more noble, and Christian-like would be the 
course of the Abolitionists, if they would adopt, and follow the 
example of the Apostles, and preach, as they preached, on the 
subject of slavery; — if they would "Exhort servants," (slaves, 
you know it is, in the original,) "to be obedient unto their own 
masters, and to please them well, in all things: not ansewering 
again; not purloining; but shewing all good fidelity, that they 
may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour;"— if they would 
say to our slaves, as St. Paul did, to the slaves, held in thou- 
sands, in the Roman Empire, in his day, " Art thou called, 
being a servant," (here again, the original, you know, signifies 
a slave,) tk care not for it; but if thou mayst be made free," 
(according to the laws of the land, certainly jvas the Apostle's 
meaning,) " use it rather:" — if then, they would turn to mas- 
ters, and say, u Masters give unto your servants that which is 
just, and equal, knowing that your master also is in heaven:" 
in a word, if they would urg« upon both masters and slaves, 
all the christian duties enjoined upon each, by the Apostles, and 
leave the civil relation of master and slaves, undisturbed, as 
the Apostles did : — if they would take this course, I cannot 
but believe, they would be far more likely to accomplish their 
object, than they are, in the course they are pursuing. This, 
I apprehend, would be their true Christian course. It would 
be " following peace with all men." No man could take any 
exception tQ it: It would be the true course to bring, both mas- 
ters and slaves, under the influence of the gospel: and, just in 
proportion as that is effected, the hardships of slavery will di- 

t"" * Let me not be understood as charging the Abolitionists 
with any intention to do any thing like this. Noting, I believe 
is less intended by them. I speak only of the nature, and ten- 
dency of their Abolition scheme. In this I believe they have 
suffered their zeal to mislead their judgment: and if they will 
take proper pains^to inform themselves of all the circumstances 
of the case, and, throwing aside all prejudice, carefully and with 
candor reconsider the whole case, I see not how they can avoid 
discovering their scheme to be such as I have stated it to be. , 



juinish; and when this work is universally effected, the chains of 
the slave will fall from around him. 

But to undertake, first to distroy slavery, by any human leg- 
islation, in order thereby to make men christians, is mere 
quackery; it is io begin at the wrong end; — it is to counteract 
the laws of nature; and the inherent vicious passions of human 
nature must, as they always have done, for ever defeat everyau 
tempt of that kind. First f subdue these vicious passions, 
which nothing but the Christian religion can effect, and there- 
by you destroy the cause of slavery, and the effect, of course, 
will cease. But, until the cause is removed, it is vain to think 
of destroying the effect, by any human legislation. And, least 
of all, is your " exasperating" abolition scheme calculated to 
effect that object. 



