J7 



To the Abolitionists of Massachusetts, 



Fpjends : A painful necessity compels a continued appeal to your generosity and your justice. 

It will be remembered that at the Annual Meeting of the Abolition Society'in 1843, the Treasurer's Report showed 
a balance against the Society of nine thousand dollars. 

To provide for pressing exigencies and to sustain the credit of the Society, twenty individuals were chosen and re 
quested to lend their notes for $450 each for one year, with the pledge that they should be redeemed, by the resources and 
contributions of the Society. ' . j auu 

Those resources and contributions have failed to be what it wa* confidently expected they would be The Commit 
tee who gave their notes are now called to pay them. Tney are mostly poor men, whose support comes from their daily 
toil, and some of them would be compelled to sacrifice their whole means, even their children's bread, if the pled-ed faith of 
the Society shonld not be redeemed. " 

Those of the Committee who were able to do so. have paid their notes and voluntarily given the amount to the So- 
ciety ; others have given them m part^ and some donations for the purpose have been made, by which the debt is now re- 
duced to about five thousand dollars^ 

It should be remembered that the present committee who have assumed the burthen of this debt were not instru 
mental m creating it. Only one or two of the original committee remain. Some of them having been unfortunate in 
business and others having resigned and left the state, the whole burthen of sustaining the credit of the Society has been 
devolved upon their successors, who, individually, have no more responsibility in respect to it than any other friends of the 
cause in any other part of the State, but who, for the cause's sake are willing to do all they can to remove it 

/_The debt was created originally, as is well knov^-n. by the great efforts to sustain the cause in lS39-4o' when the de 
sertion of a large portion of our supporters to their respective political parties deprived us of resources which were prom 
jsed and confidently calculated upon. 

The Executive Committee then in existence, had no alternative but to continue their operations, and trust to th» 
generosity of Abolmonists yet to be converted, or to abandon the cause altogether, which would have been its complete 
overthrow throughout the free States, probably for many years. complete 
In this exigency they resolved to contitme their operalious. The result was the establishment of the Liberty Partv 
BOW so strong and hopeful. But another result was the creation of the present debt. Let the good be balanced a-ainst the 
evil and the wisdom of their determination Will be obvious. " 

Bin whether their determination was wise or not, the present com-^ittce p-e not responsible for it They are onlv 
re.ponsible for the debt, with the pledged faith of the Society as their security. The Committee have now resolved upon 
decisive efforts to liquidate the debt. They have, therefore, authorized the Treasurer to make this appeal to the Abolition- 
ists of Massachusetts, and to enforce it by personal application until the amo.mt is rai«ed 

„r ,h J'.'' \° f '1"^' ''f ' 'he earliest possible day, even if it should be necessary to restrict the operations 

of the Society, so that the whole contributions shall be devoted to the purpose. 

. The Committee have no fears .hat the Abolitionists of Massachusetts will for a moment countenance the disc^race- 
ful principle of repud.aUon, or^hro^v ^ just debt, assumed by their direction and in obedienc. to the stern demands of 
fidelity to the slave, upon their officers. ciuaiius oi 

They therefore appeal to you to contribute according to your means, to the liquidation of the remainincr debt and to 
enable the Socu^ty to proceed in its legitimate duty of awakening the people of our State and nation to the guilt of slavery 
and the duty of immediate emancipation. This great and incumbent duty your Committee pledge themselves to fulfil so 
far as sustained by their constituents. ' 

[C^ Contributions (as well as pled-es to be paid at some future time,) may be forwarded to the Treasurer, at Salem 
or lo the Secretary, No. 6 Trrmont Temple, Boston. 

/?// ordor and in behdf of the Commitlcc. DANIEL MANN, Tkeasukek. 

A. A. PHELPS, Chairman. 



E. G. LEACH, Secretary, 



We the subscribers, severally agree to give to the Massachusetts Abolition Society, one bollar, annually 
for thre^y^ensumg, to be paid on the last week of May of each year, to the order of the Treasurer. 

J^^^^- I RESIDENCE. 



TO THE ABOLITIONISTS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 



ffu order lo present upon ibis slieet llie whuJe ficUl of action etn- 
kraceit by tlie Mass.. Abo. Soc. the loLUnv U»g address of the Execii- 
liive committee for lite presejil jsear is copied fi;om ilie E.inaiK-ipator.l 

Fellow labo-urecs, — The undersigned, in entering on. their 
(iuities a.s the executive conin^ittee of the Massachu.setts Abo- 
lition Society,, tor the eurren.t year, as!v your attention, to the 
lidlowing statements : 

IJt has ever been the aiiftof this society to carry forvv.ird the 
aiili-slavery cause, unincuuibered by tbreign tjuest ions, and 
>i.n«\verved by mistaken, t'rieiidship or open opposition, lo otiier 
ends/l Of consequence, it hjis always had just that kind ol' 
aali-swvery work to d«.„wti.ich most needed, I'roin thiie to. tirae, 
to be done, but which only att iLonest and tearless fidelity to 
the slave would do. 

■J^ts first work, that indeed which, called it into being, was to 
ceSist attempts which were made to encumber the cause with 
questions foreign to that of the irriimediate emancipation of the 
enslaved, and so to make the cause itself subservient to other 
ends— ends alike mischievous to the enslaved and to the fun- 
damental institutions and interests of all well-ordered societies. 
It was a painful, a laboriotts, and au expensive work ; but it 
is only necessary to mark the spirit and the lengths lo which 
the authors of those attempts have now csime, lo be assured 
that it was worth all and inore than all it ever cost. 

The society had scarcely eliccted this work, and begun to re- 
lieve itself of the debt incurred in its prosecution, when, in the 
providence of God, anotlierand severer labor was thrown upon 
it — that of maintaining and eniforciiig, by its paper and agents, 
in the face of mighty opposition, the political integrity of the 
fiause. We refer to the period of 1840, when the' united in- 
tluence of pro-slavery politiciaiis and non-government abo- 
litionists threatetted to swallow up the entire political exist- 
ence of the friends of the enslaved. The society's treasury 
was exhausted and overdrawn.^ Ina meeting of the exectjtive 
committee held for the purpose of deciding Avha I course the 
society by its paper and agents should pursue, we were told, 
iin^ distinct terms, by an individual standing high in one of the 
great political parties, and speaking evidently'not for himself 
alone, that if we dared to call that party's candidates in ques- 
tion and to maintain in respect to them an unbending and in- 
tl'ependent position, we should be broken down. The^hostiliiv 
«f the other party to a similar course respecting its candidates 
was equally great, and made knowiv in methods equally signi- 
ficant. Those only that experienced the influences which then 
set in upon the society to warp its integrity, can form any just 
estimate of their strength, i^he committee had but one alter- 
native — to bend before the storm, or honestly to face it, with 
ihe risk of utter destruction., but with the certainty, in any 
event, of increased pecuniary envbarrassment. For t he slave's 
sake and in God's fear they made tbe venture. The result 
then was the loss, almost as in a day, of more than a thousand 
subscribers to the society's paper, the desertion of many of the 
original friends and supporters of the society, a corresponding 
diminution in the amount of cointributions, and an equal in- 
crease of the society's debt. But the society did not die. It 
eutlived the storm, and made no sacrifice of its integritv. And 
the result now is the continued existence of the Emancipator 
and Chronicle, with its 6,500 subscribers : the present position 
and influence of the Liberty party in Massachirsetfs ; tind 
throu.gh the co-operation of kindred spirits bv kindred sacrifices 
in other States, the political salvation of the "anti-slavery cause. 
Where had the 10,000 Liberty voters of Massachusetts now 
been but for the stand taken in 1840, and since nrairstnined by 
the Massachusetts Aboliticfn Society ? What one of those 
voters will not then cheerfully continue to sustain it and do 
•whatever is necessary to relieve it of all its former liabilities? 

It is now 1844: during the last four years the successive 
executive committees of your society have been occupied in 
maiiitaining and establishing the movement begun in 1840, 
and in doing what they could to diminish the pecuniary lia- 
bilities originated and mainly incurred in the two services na- 
med. But the anti-slavery cause has now reached a point at 
which, as your present committee think, some chana'e should 
be made in the direction and nature of our work. 



The separation of the cause from those foreign and extrava- 
gant things which called the society into exis;ence is now sub- 
siaiitially complete; and those things have grown to such re- 
volting maturity as to be their own antidote. The Liberty 
party, wliicii has hitherto needed and received much of the at- 
tention aiid aid ot the society's paper and agents, is now fair- 
ly in the Held, with a distinct and intfependent ©rganization of 
its own, and able tocoimmind for itself all the resources ne- 
cessary for its suppoi-t and advancemem. In these circum- 
stances, some have thought that there i.s little fartSier need of 
the society's s.^rvices, and that it misht Wwell for the society 
to retire liom the field. Are they "right ? Your committee 
think they are not. Wejielieve the society has yet important 
work to do for the slave. / 

The Liberty party, it should be remembered, will labor only 
with reference to its own appropriate ends. Of course it's 
agencies will occupy the field, not regularly and permanently, 
but only at intervals, and with immediate reference to pend- 
ing or approaching elections. What agencies shall fill up the 
intermediate periods and carryforward the promotion of the 
general cause, if this society retires from the field? We know 
ot none ; and we therefore think, that as a steady and perma- 
nent agency for the promotion of the anti-slavery cause gener- 
ally, this society should bv all means continue its work. 

Besides this, we believe, that, in the providence of God, the 
society IS now called to give particular and earnest attention 
to another department of labor in the common cause, viz., its 
promotion m its moral and religiuus relations— in the churches, 
the ecclesiastical bodies and benevolent societies. It stirely is' 
not necessary to inform you that a great work needs to be done 
in this direction. Much, it is true, has been accomplished al- 
lea ly, but much remains to be done. From the causes al- 
ready adverted to, this societv has not hitherto given so mnch 
attenlion to this part of its work as it would otherwise have 
gladly done, and as its importance has really demanded. We 
arc nov.- m a position to give it more attention ; and the pres- 
sent posiuie ot affairs in all the religious circles and associa- 
tions of .society is full of encouragement for the fnture. TVour 
coramiitee believe that agents of this society, duly accredited 
and qualified, would be freelv allowed to present the cause of 
the Slave in its moral and religions aspects and obligations, in 
a vast majority ot all the churches, of all denominations, in 
this commonweahh; and we are confident, that the change of 
opinion and of practice that would thereby be wrought on the 
subject, would be great and invaluable. 

To this work, to the steady proinoticn of the general cause 
and to the liquidation of the remaining debt of the society, we 
propose as your committee, to give our attention for tke 'pres- 
ent year. We shall devote to those objects such agencies of 
the press and of the living voice as we can command, and as 
shall seem to us to be wise and eflfective. To do what we de- 
sire and deem importput, your committee will need to receive 
not less than $4000^ J Let the friends of this society and of the 
slave in the several towns, raise and remit such siims as they 
can, at the earliest day practicable, to Dr. Daniel Mann, Sa- 
lem, the treasurer of the society, or to Dr. Elbridge G. Leach, 
assistant treasurer. No. 6, Tremont Temple, Boston; and at 
the end of the year, we hope to present a statement of labors 
and results that will neither disappoint their expectations nor 
our own. To all such we say, give us a remembrance in your 
sympathies, your prayers, your pecuniary support, and, God 
helping us, we will administer your trusts as faithful stewards 
of the slave. 



A. A. PHELPS, CuAiRiviAN. 
D. S. Kino, Boston. 

M. S. SCUDDEE, do. 

A. R. Campbell, do. 
James Carpenter, do. 
Daniel Mann, Salem. 
M. M. FisHEE, Medway. 
Martin Torret, Foxboro'. 
Charles Foster, Charlestown. 
John Dallincier, Jr., Cambridgeport. 

Bo-ilon, July 1, 1844. 



