Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/slaverynotforbidOOnisb 



IP 




SCRrPTURE. 



O R 



n 



ri. r 



E N C E 



ry-^^h^'t 



W E S T- 1 N D I A PLANTERS, 

From the ASPERSIONS thrown out against 
them, by the author. or a pamphlet, entitled, 

*" An address to the ishabitants of 

" THE BPvITISH settlements IN AmERICA, UP0!« 

** SL A VE-E E EPi:: C," 



By 



Vv E S T - I :^_ D t A N. 



IVhoJleals my Purfe,JIeals trajh, ^tis fometling, nothing; 
"T'M^ss miney ^iis his, and has been JIave- to thoufands ; 
But he that filches from rns i?iy gocd Name^ 
Rchs me of that, ivhich net enriches him. 
And 7?iakes me poor indeed, S k a k e s p E a r j . 



PHILADELPH 
Printed ^^Ldc r 



\ 






X 



A/ 



'&3S 



*^0 \\ 



A- 



.J ,, I nnu i m i uy ii 1 i iMii | . i 'u ii»— »i^» I II . I ' mi ll i j <e— wwa^rw^— l^—— « m«Jj 



PREFACE 



/^ONSCIOUS of a njoant of aliliths^ and 
having very little time to fpare at prefent^ it 
dijlrejfes me^ not a little^ to write any thing that 
has a chance of being perufed hy the publick, 

I never fhould have attempted to contradi^f the 
author of the addrefs^ merely from being a natiiie 
cf the Wefi' Indies^ for I hate national partiality -, 
hut as I have many valuable friends in that part 
cf the world ^ 1 could not^ patiently^ hear them fo 
unworthily traduce d.^ without ends^avauring tpun^ 
deceive his readers.. 

I-' very well know ^ that flave keeping is thought 
incGnpflent with religion^ by great part of the peo- 
ple iyi this province y fp.that what I have faid^ con-; 
cerning its legality^ or the political neceffity of ad- 
mitting it^ may be read with difgufi by many, 

A- 2, I hav& 



ii PREFACE. 

/ have not vanity enough to think, that anf 
thing 1 have mentioned, will incline them to change 
their opinions, or to look upon it with a more fa- 
vourable eye. But 1 flatter my f elf, that every ho' 
Tiefl man, whatever his religious or political princi- 
ples may be, zvill favour every attempt to crufh the 
fnoft malevolent Jlander, efpe daily when it is exag- 
gerated hey end the moji dijlant bounds of probability, 
Ithe inhabitants of this city will pleafe to recolleSfy 
that the IFeJl- Indies form a confiderahle branch of 
their commerce, and that they ought therefore to 
It Hen to every thing that can be f aid in favour of its 
inhabitants' They will, likewife, remember that 
they lately received a genteel fum of money from that 
quarter, for the life of their college, for which a5t 
cf generefity I heard the Wed Indians highly com- 
mended, by the Provoli of that feminary, on a late 
publick oc^a/ion. Every one mufl fuppofe thatJhey 
likewife, fpoke the fentiments of the other prcfeffors^ 
and furely thofe gentlemen, equally remarkable for 
their piety and learning, would not have beftowed 
praifes where they were not due, nor deigned to re^ 
ceive any donations, if they thought they were 
granted by mon/lers and barbarians^ 

I trufi 



PREFACE. ill 

/ truft to fa5fs^ and the goodnefs of my caufe^ 
rather than elegant language and flowery decla- 
mation \ and 1 mu/i ohferve^ that^ though I am in- 
finitely inferior to the author of the addrefs, in the 
qualifications of a writer^ yet 1 have many advan- 
tages over him. 

Ahufe levelled at an entire hedy of people, feems 
fo contrary to reafon^ and every charitable maxim, 
that a man who undertakes it^ though of the fir H 
rate genius^ lays himfelf open to he refuted by eve- 
ryfchool boy. Such performances^ unlefs fupported 
hy the poetickfire of a Churchill^ cannot hear a fe^ 
€ondreadingy and mufifoonftnk into utter oblivion. 




s^ 



frr 






•>•■>•>••>••>•■>••>••>••>••>••>■■>•■>•>••>••>•■>••>•>••>■• 






S L AVERY 



K O T F O R B I D D E K B Y 



SCRIPTURE, 



OR A DEFENCE, Sec. 



MANY writers, who aim at tlie reformation of 
mankind, point out plans for their condud, 
which it is impoffible to follow. They make no allow- 
ance for our frailties^, nor confider that we cannot at- 
tain a.ftate of abfolute perfection. Among the reft, the 
declairhers againft ilavery never recollect that there are 
faults in e^^ery human inftitution. Inftead of advlfing 
fome wholfome regulations and improvements, they 
ijpend their time in fruitlefs reproaches, and afterwards 
declarethatflavery ought to be utterly aboliflied, as if 
their di:^ates were to be implicitly followed. Till felf- 
intereil chafes to have influence over the anions of men, 

propofals 



-C: 



pf Gpofals that ftrike at the very root of their tempoi'a! 
concerns will never be purfued, and ferve no other pur* 
pofe> than to difplay the author's talents* 

A MAN of a gloomy and difcoiitented turn of ilnindj 
who has no other view in offering his fentiments to the 
publick, than to make an oftentatious fhew of his abili- 
tieSj may write numberlefs folios on the abufes that 
reign among us, and ftill find freih fubjeft for complaint* 
Why does he not pour forth his eloquence againft the 
lawlefs ambition of kings, who, for a fpotofland, per- 
haps, not fit jto defray half the expences of a campaign, 
often facrifice millions of their fellow creatures I The 
occupations of their fubjedls, when viewed through the 
magnifying medium of a bigot's eye, are likewife equal- 
ly deferving of cenfure. The fervants of the ftate, un- 
der colour of perquifites of office, confifcate the public 
money ; Bifliops preach on humility and indifference to 
worldly enjoyments, yet pocket ten thoufand a year; 
lawyers are ready to eiigage on either fide of a caufe, 
perhaps, by their eloquence miflead the jury, and occa- 
fion the ruin of widows and orphans ; phyficians take a 
fee from a patient, when they know his cure to be im- 
poffible ; and the efforts of a merchant to get -the beft 
price for his commodities, muft appeal* an endlefs' en- 
deavour of one man to over-reach another. Moft of 
our favourite fp or ts exhibit a continued fcene of blood- 
fhed and cruelty. What enjoyment can a rational mind 
feel in purfuing a timid hare, and feeing the poor animal 
worried by dogs; or in maiming a harmlefs partridge ? 

Can there be any fatisfaiSion in torturing the worm and 

trout, 



( 3 ) 

trout, for hours, on the fharp-pointed hook ? Is it not 
the height of barbarity to pufh the generous horfe be- 
yond his ftrength, and make him run over a courfe of 
fome miles in a few minutes ? In fhort, it would be end- 
iefs to mention every circumftance that an enthufiaft 
may lay hold of, to prove the degeneracy of human na- 
ture. He may always find fubjeds enough to exercife 
his declamatory powers, without having recourfe to fla- 
very. The man of a liberal and benevolent way of 
thinking, will fee that there are faults in all employ- 
ments, and that many of our amufements cannot be 
juftified by the ftridl rules of humanity j but he will 
overlook fuch matters, feeing they are the neceffary 
confequences of the imperfedlion of our nature. In 
his ovTD. department he will keep himfelf as free 
from blame as poffible ; and be of opinion, that the fmall 
portion of time every good member of fociety has to 
fpare from his own concerns, is better employed in pro- 
moting the happinefs of mankind, than in railing at 
their vices. 

Slavery, like all other human inftitutions, may 
be attended with its particular abiiies, but that is not 
fufficient totally to condemn it, and to reckon every one 
unworthy the fociety of men who owns a negro. 

I F precedent conftitutes law, furely it can be defend- 
ed, for it has exifted in all ages. The fcriptures, in- 
ftead of forbidding it, declare it lawful. The divine 
legiHatorj ^fofes, fays — . 

B *' Both 



( 4 ) • 

^- B o T u thy bond-men and thy bond maids, which 
thou flialt have, fhall be of the heathen that are round 
"about you ; of them ft-:^ ye buy bond-men and bond- 
4naids. Moreover, of uie children of the ftrangers that 
do fojourn among you, of them fhali ye buy, and of 
theis- families that are with you, which they beget in 
your land : and they Ihall be your pofTcffion. And ye 
fhali take them as an inheriLance for your children after 
youj to inherit them for a poiTefiion, they ihall be your 
bond-men for ever. *" 

_The Jews are not only allowed, in the cleareft 
terms, to enflave the heathens for life, but like- 
wife others, who were their countrymen, though of a 
different religious perfuafion. 

In another place, f^iving laws concerning lerv- 
. ants, he fays — 

*' And if a man fmite his fervaiit or his maid, with 
a rod, and he die under his hand, he fhall be furely 
puniihed; notwithftanding, if he continue a day or two, 
he Ihall not be punifhed : for he is his money." 

Killing a fervant on the fpot it feems was punifh- 
ed, though not capitally : for, in the fame chapter, he 
mentions fix capital crimes, and always exprelfes in the 
moil direct terms that the dehnquent fhall fuffer death. 
We can not eafily infer tjie fame meaning from the 

word 

* Lev'it* XXV. 44, 45. 46. t Exod, xxi. 20. 



( J ) 

word puntfljcd. He probably meant a pecuniary fine, 
efpecially, as in the verfe that immediately follows, he 
ufes the very fame words, *< he fhall be furely pmiiftied," 
tx) exprefs a forfeiture of money. § The words his jjif-- 
neyi plainly convey the idea of property^ as if he were 
talking of aii (^x or- an afs* 

I T miift be obferved, that thefe laws, which are fo 
much in- favour of the mailer, feem to have been appli- 
eabIe--onIy 'to' Hebrew fervants. If they were fo harfhly 
dealt with, flaves for life, certainly, lay under ilill 
greater difadvantages. Thefe -Were diftinguifhed by the 
name of Bond??ie7ii and I can find no Uws in the Old' 
Teftament concerning them. The Heathens and ftrang- 
ers appear to have been held in fo fmall eftimation^ by 
Mofes and the Jews, that it is' likely. ke did not think it 
worth while to give any laws concerning them, and lefc 
it" in the will of the mailer, to treat tiiem as he thought 
proper, f 

The Avithor of the Addrels is .of opinion, that^ 
3a very was not authorized by tlie: patriarchs, becaufe- 

B 3- * their 

■ %'If'fnenflrive and hurt a- nx}omd¥'wifh child, fa that 
her fru it de.pa rt frain -ker^ . and yetna ?Htfchie^fi>ilQ'w ; het 
Jhall he furely pimifocd^ according as the 'woman's hufband. 
^ill lay upon him ; and he fhall pay as the judge deter'- 
mine. -Exod. xxi. 22,. 

f The feivs d'efdrve cenfure for ihclr illihifal partialis 
t/ /& their cou7ttryme?i andfellonxi. helisv£rsi>^. - 



* ( 6 ) 

their accounts of it are very fliort, jufl as if one could 
not underftand an author's meaning in a few words- 
A good chriftian might as well pretend, that he ought 
not to pay any attention to the commandment, " Thou 
fhalt not kill," nor feveral of the others, becaufe they 
are expreiTed in a brief manner. With the fame fophill» 
ry he adds, that Providence kept the neighbouring nati- 
ons in bondage, to prevent the jews from corrupting 
their national religion and, by intermarriages, altering 
the defcent of Jefus from what was originally ordained., 

Could an eternal decree of God be overturned by 
the pitiful revolutions among men? or could not the 
fame omnipotent being, who marked out the defcent of 
the faviour of the world, prevent the race of Abraham 
from being corrupted ? This aiTertion can even be con- 
futed from the fituation of the Jews, fmce their over- 
throw by the Romans. They have been driven from 
their native countr)'-, and fcattered among all the na- 
tions of the earth, many of whofe manners and cufloms 
are more inviting than their own, yet they ftill remain 
a dilHucl people, in fpite of perfecucion and all the dif- 
advantages they labour under. 

The Jews are forbidden to detain their countrymen 
in fervitude longer than feven years. f We do the fame, 

though 

^ Hehrenu fervanfs ivere 7iot allo'wed to carry their 
n):ives and children alo?ignvith them if they belonged, to their 
TJiaftert and, prohabljifrom a rehi6lancs to quit fuch ten- 
der 



( 7 }! . 

tliough they fhould be wretches, guilty of the moft fla« 
grant violation of the laws. Neither are they to fteal 
one another ; a crime which we have no caufe to be ac- 
cufed of. Kidnapping feems to have been commou 

with 

der conneSiions, they fometimes refufed to go a'way at ths 
and eif feven years, and voluntarily hecainejlaves for U/e» 
Yhh lijas ratified in due form by a very cruel ceremony >i 
namely, boring the fervanf i ear ivith an aivl^ and faji* 
ning hi?n to a door or a pofl, ■ 

** If his mafler have given him a ^w if e, andfJje have 
** borne him fons or daughters ; the 'wife and her children 
** Jl^all be her mafiers, and he fl) all go out by himfelf, 

" ^4n(^ if the Jervant fhall plainly fay, I love my 
** 77iafter, my ivife and my children, I ivill not go out 

** free : 

" Then his mafler fhall bring hi7n nnfo the judges; he 
" fhall alfo bring him to the door, or u72to the door pofl : 
" Jnd his 7nafierf:all bore his ear thrcugh Atjith an a^'h 
** and he fhall ferve hi??i forever,''^ " 

Exodus zxi. 4, ^3 6. 

** And it fmll be if he fay unto.^ thee, I <wili not go 
" anvay from thee ( becaufe he loveth thee and thine- houfe ; 
** becaufe he is nxsell ivith thee) 

" Then thou fhalt take an anvl, and thrufl it through 
*' his ear unto the door, and he foall be thy fervant for 
" ever : And alfo unto thy maid-fervant thou fJoalt da 
"■^likewfe. Peut^ XV, 16,17. 



(, s ) 

with the Jews, for Mofes idenounces his vengerviice a-- 
gainft it in more places than cne. * 

Our Saviour's general maxims of charity and bene- 
volence, cannot be mentioned as proofs againft flavery. 
If the cuftom had been held In abhorrence by Chrift and 
his difciples, they would, no doubt, have prfeathed a- 
gainft it in direct terms. They were remarkabl^rfo.r the. 
boldnefs f of their difcourfeoj^, and intreplciity of cbri- 
dud:, which brought oa them, perfecutions,, imprifon-. 
ment, and even death itfel£-. However, tbe Addre/fer 
is fo wicked as to accufe our Saviour of the meanefldifii- 
mulation, by faying, that he forbote to mention' any 
thing that might feem contrary to the Romaii or Jew^ 
ifh laws This Gentleman, atte'i^jptiiig to be religious, 
becomes blafphemous. Enough, I believe, has bepn 
faid, to ihew his inability to prove thatflaverj is ccn-v 
trary to fcripture. 

I F this writer had confined himfelf to the impropriety 
of llavery in this, and fome of the other colonies, audi, 
treated the fubjedt in an unprejudiced manner, his la-, 
hours might have been .ufefuh In the northern parta 
of America there are now, numbers of induftrious white 
inhabitants, and when that is the cafe, the importation, 
of Negroes will ceafe, ■without any interpofitioti of the 
legiflature. No mail who pays attention to his intereft 
and peace of mind, will eyer employ ilav^s to. do- his* ^ 
work, when he can get freemen at a moderate price* 

* Exod. xxi. 1 6. Deuf. xxiv. 7. 

-)■ Witnefs Paul's hehavlour he/ore y^grippa. 



( 9 ■) 

But his proppfal of fettling the Weft-Indies entirely wltk 
whites, and giving the Negroes their liberty, could ne- 
ver come from a man of common fenfe. * The Author 
of the Addrefs has, certainly, never been in the fu gar 
iflands, and confequently, v/hatever he mentions, con- 
cerning them, muft be from a ccnfufed hear-fay, not 
from experience. 

I IMAGINE thei'e are above four-hundred thoufand 
Kegroes in the Britilh Iflands: Can he point out a plan 
to procure the fame number of whites in their ftead ? 
Or, if they could be got, would not there be a neceflity 
for vaft reinforcements, to fupply the place of thofe cut 
off by difeafe I Where is the money to be raifed to make 
fatisfadion to the Planters for the lofs of their proper- 
ty ? t The people in Britain already complain, that 
cmigrators, from the mother country, are become too 

numerous ; 

* To prove that negroes ear?! their freedom, our Author 
rates the profits of their yearly lahour, at te?7 pound Jlerl' 
ingi a7id their expences, forty floillings, hut, includ- 
ing taxes y foody cloathing, dotlors fees and the inter ejl 
of the original cofl of a Negro, it is nveU kno-jon that 
his yearly charges nvill. amount to near eight pound, 
Befidesy honv can he be, certain that the Negro 'will labour 
tiventy years, nuhen the life of a healthy perfon can 07ily he 
valued feven years. I me7ztion this, to f^eiv that he is to- 
tally unacquainted, m)ith his fuhje6i, 

t Fifty-invo millions n.vould be required ; tivenfy-tivo 
millions for the Negroes, and thirty in confideration of the 
lands f buildings, "S^^. 



{ 10 ) 

Jitlhiefous' and when they take the refolution of going 
abroad, they will certainly prefer the interior parts o£ 
America to the rugged rocks of the Weft-Indies, or the 
fwamps of Carolina, as more likely to fecure them every 
comfort of life. Many articles of fubfiftence, very 
necefTary to families that come from Europe, fuch as, 
milk, butter and cheefe, can hardly be procured in the 
Weft-Indies, and no kind of grain, can be raifed, ex- 
cept Guinea and Indian corji, with which they are 
totally unacquainted. 

With regard to the Africans, they meet with fetr 
inconveniences of that nature, as the climate and pro- 
dudions of the two countries are fo nearly alike. 

T H I s writer confefles, that hard labour w*ithin the 
tropics Ihortens human life, and that the colour of the 
negroes qualifies them for hot countries, yet he is defir- 
ous,- that our white fellow fubjefts Ihould toil in thefe 
fultry climates, that the Africans might indulge their 
natural lazinefs in their own country. The former are^ 
no doubt, much obliged to him for his kind intentions* 

T o fupport his benevolent fcheme of aboliftiing flave- 
ry in the Iflands, he makes ufe of a very fpecious argu- 
ment, that agriculture can never flourifti where flaveryis 
tolerated. If he means the flavery of arbitrary ftates, 
he may be right, but with regard to the Britifh Weft- 
Indies, where the proprietors are under a free govern- 
ment, and only the manual labour performed by flaves, 

his 



( " ) 

his obfervation will not hold good, for there are few, 
or no lands, better cultivated any where. The little 
jfland of St. Kitts, is not above eighty miles 
fquare, and yet, its annual produce amounts to 
kalf a million fterling, which is not, perhaps, to be 
equalled in the whole univerfe. 

The hiflory of the Weft-Indies, fhews, that fugar 
colonies can never be brought to any perfedlon, by di- 
viding the lands among a number of people. When 
the iflands were firft taken under the protedlion of go- 
vernment, numbers of people fettled there, who made 
a fhift to fupport themfelves, by planting a little cotton 
and tobacco, very little fugar or rum being then made* 
Such people can afford to confume but very few manm» 
failures, and thofe of the cheapeft fort. Some of them 
more ambitious and pofleiTed of greater induftry than 
the reft, affifted with accidental fupplies of money, 
purchafed the lands of many of thefe inconfiderable 
proprietors. This increafe of property enabled them 
to become fugar planters, by which means they foon ac- 
quired riches,' and the iflands, from being of little or 
no ufe to government, greatly encreafed its revenue. 
It is in vain to think of making fugar, by dividing the 
land into fmall lots among poor fettlers. Unlefs a plan- 
tation yields above fifty hogflieads of that commodity. It 
will hardly defray the expence of building a fet of works, 
buying cattle, and a variety of neceffary utenfils ; in 
.Ihort, to commence fugar planter, a man muft have the 
command of a very confiderable fum of money ; and a 

fmall 

e 



( J2 ) 

finall eftate being attended with a much greater proper* 
tional expence than a large one, no perfon can exped to 
become independent, unlefs his landed property is pret- 
ty extenflve. 

I N this country, when the peafant reaps and thrafhcs 
his grain, the labour is over, and he can keep it feveral 
months, till he meets with a purchafer. But the 
cafe is widely different with the cane planter ; when 
the cane is cut it is ufelefs, unlefs he has the necef- 
fary apparatus to manufacture it, which cannot be 
procured without a great fura of money. He muft quick- 
ly refolve, for the cane will periih in a few hours, a cir- 
cumftance that deprives him of an opportunity to tranf- 
port it by water carriage, or of carrying it far by land^ 
CO find a buyer. 

B Y the property in the iflands falling into fewer 
hands, the ftate has loft fome fubjedls in her colonies, 
but it has received full compenfation, by the additional 
value of produce fent to^the mother country. * I know 

eflates 

* / hell eve it nvi/I admit of difputCy *wh ether Great' 
Britain has fuffered a decreafe offuhje6ls on the ivhole, by 
the property in the ijlands falling into fe'wer harids. For 
the additional quantity of fugar, <bc. thereby made and 
fent ho7?iey by giving employment to the refiners offugar^ 
failors, fhip-buildersy and, in fhort^ ^i'^i^g bujinefs /# 
people in a thoufand different occupations, muji create an 
encreafe of inhabitants at home ; fo that, upon the nxthoU^ 
the flat € can hardly be f aid to be a lofer in that refpe^> 



eflatcs whrcii formerly afforded only a fcanty fabfidenc© 
to a few families, that now yield five thoufand pounds 
fterling, per annum, to the proprietor, and fifteen hun- 
dred to the revenue, which is Infinitely more than an 
cilate in England of the fame Income. The Britifii em- 
pire is one vail machine, and every particular diftrldl 
and colony, may be compared to feparate wheels that 
give motion to the whole. Some aggrandize the ftate by 
commerce ; others by furnifiiijig ufeful fubje^ts ; and it 
may be faid In favour of thofe affording wealth, thai 
money can command foldiers, but that foldiers without 
money can never prove fervlceable* 

i 
It Is i^ow time to indulge, for a moment, the chi'« 

merical fuppofitlon, that government were to liften to the 

complaints of the Author of the Addrefs, and fuch vifi- 

onary enthufiufts, and by ad of parliaments declare all 

the negroes free ; many of the richeilBritlfh fubje<51:s mull 

iminediately become beggars,and the fugar colonies (not 

to, mention thofe that produce rice and indigo) will be 

deferted. The nation muft confequently pay above four 

millions f a year, to foreigners, for that commodity,* tht 

revenue 

C z 

f The fiigar annnaUy exported, fro^n the Britijh WeJ!^ 
Indies^ ii computed to he above ,f out millions y Jlerlingi, 

value* 

i 

*"■ If*we include the value of the rum^ cofee^ coco'a^ cof^: 
tdftt, rlce^ indigo^ and tobacco^ made in the BritiJJy colo^^ 



( 14 ) 

revenue Will be reduced more than another million, and 
the fureit vent for our manafadures would be loft. By 
fuch terrible drains, Britain would be rendered quite 
defenceiefs, and flie muft foon fall an eafy prey to France, 
or fome of her other powerful neighbours ; and thus, 
hy freeing the Africans, Britons, themfelves, mull be* 
come abjed flaves to defpotick power. 

I A M furprized thefe advocates for human liberty, do 
Jiot undertake the caufe of our brave foldiers and invin- 
cible fallors, in preference to that of the negroes; cer- 
tainly every body will excufe them for fo harmlefs a par- 
tiality. They ought to advife the miniftry to abolifh 
the inhuman cuftom of preffing, and to allow the fol- 
diers to quit their regiments when they had a mind, in- 
ilead of being detained during life. If they received an 
anfwer, they w^ould, probably, be told, that the wifpft 
flatefmen had never difcovered any other method of 
manning the navy, efpeclally on a fudden emergency; 
and that the army could not be maintained, if the time 
of ferving were left in the will of the foldiers. They 
would, iikewife, be told, that private confiderations 

muft 

nies, there mujl he a lofs of fome millions more : Befides^ 
nve mufl confider the lofs affreight, the number offailors^ 
and others , that nnould have no e^mployment, and the check 
that the ufual circulation, in the mother country, *would 
receive, hy the proprietors in the colonies, having no money 
t9 fpend. It m}ould be endlefs to trace the confequences s 
and every one muft confefs that Britain, nuithout her South* 
em and Weft- India colonies,, mufi he a i?iere cypher. 



C !S ) 

mufl always give way to the publlck good ; and that the 
fafety of the ftate required thefe extraordinary exertions 
of power. Will not the fame reafon oblige government 
to allow flavery to continue in the colonies ? By liftning 
to one petition, Britain muft be conquered by force of 
arms ; by granting the other, ftie muft be undone hf 
lofmg her commerce^ The caufe would be different, 
buc the effedt the fame. 

I SHOULD have allowed the Author of the Addrefs, 
and his aiTociates, to enjoy the imaginary triumph of 
proving the iniquity of flavery, and quietly heard of 
their petition being prefented to government, to prohi- 
bit the African trade, vt^ithout feeling the fmalleft deiire 
to combat- their opinions ; but he has gone farther. He 
has reprefented the Wefl-India planters asa fet of hardned 
monfters, who, whip their ilaves without any caufe — ra- 
vilh their women — torment both fexes with melted wax 
and fire — fufpend them in the air by the thumbs, and 
wantonly indulge themfelves in every fpecies of cruelty. 
He fays thefe pictures are taken from real life. I fhould 
be glad to know his authority. 

N o gentleman could pay fo little regard to truth, as 
to fay, that fuch horrid fcenes are frequently to be met 
with. His information muft have been received from an 
obfcure writer, unworthy of credit; or fome gloomy, dif- 
contented wretch, fomewhat difordered inhisunderftand- 
ing. For my part, I never knew a fmgle inftance of 
fuch fhocking barbarities, and every Weft-Indian with 
whom I have converfed on the fubjedt, has made the 
fzmQ declaration, T h s 



( i6 ) 

The Wefl-tndies has, now, been fettled above a 
hundred years, during which time, no doubt, many 
men, guilty of every vice, have exifted in that country, 
and a few inllances have happened of the cruelties he 
mentions : But is that a reafon to ftigmatize every Weft- 
Indian, with the name of murderer and monller, and 
reprefent him as dead to every kind of feeling ? f 

Most of the natives, of the Weft-Indies, are fent 
to England, in the early part of their life, where they 
receive a liberal education, and imbibe thofe fenti- 
ments of liberty and independence, which are every 
where to be met v/ith in that happy country. Is it 
to be fuppofed, that a few years refidence in the 
Weft-India iflands, will make them, totally, forget hu- 
manity, that firft and nobleft chara(5leriftick of Englilh- 
men ? Or will not that powerful advocate, felf-intereft, 
perfuade them to preferve their flares in life and health, 
though their hearts fhould become totally callous ? 
This writer endeavours to prove them deilltute of 
common fenfe, as well as compaftion. The Weft-In- 
dies, I believe, is as remarkable as any of the other co- 
lonies, for giving birth to men of a generous and merci- 
ful difpofition ; and thofe guilty of unufuai feverity are^ 

therej^ 

f 77;;V writer talks much of Jlave-keeping and break- 
ing the eighth commandment i but he certa'mly ought to have 
perufed the ninth nuith attention, before he favoured the 
<world nuith fuch fpecimens of his Jkill in the ajfajfination 
§f chara^ers. 



{ J7 ) 

there, held in the fame abhorrence, as they would be in 
any other part of the world. ' 

1 HAVE no intentions to infmuate, that the planter* 
do not bellow proper correction when it is necefTaryc 
If they were totally negledful in this particularj 
they would neither be lovers of juftice, nor confult the 
happinefs of their flaves ; for nobody would ever wifh 
the bad to enjoy the fame advantages as the good. 
The negroes of a very indulgent, eafy mailer, for 
the moll part, become compleat villains. They not on- 
ly injure their mailer's property, but likewife are a nu- 
fance to the neighbourhood, and for their flagrant 
crimes are often punilhed by the laws; which might 
have been prevented if they had been checked in proper 
time. You have no chance to acquire the elleem of ne- 
groes by never correcting them for a fault; they ar& 
fure to laugh at your folly. It Is a univerfal remark, 
that alm'oft every Infurredlion in the. Well-Indies, has 
been hatched on the ellates of over-indulgent mailers, 
and ten to one, his favourite fervantsare the ringleaders, 
-and Ilrike the firfl blow. 

The planter who lays down a refolution, never to let 
a. fault pafs unobferved, will foon find that there is 
feldora occafion to exert his authority. The deferving 
part of his negroes will maintain their good behaviour, 
and the worthlefs, from motives of fear, take care never 
to merit punilhment. 

Oters e ers 



( i8 ) 

Ov£RSE£R$ are never allowed to chafllfe negroes, 
Without acquainting the proprietor, or (if he refides in 
England) the manager, who is generally a gentleman 
by birth and education. His buiinefs is, only to ob* 
ferve that the flaves do not idle away their time, and to 
inform againft thofe that have mifbehaved. 

The AddreiTer would make us believe, that negroei 
are often put to death, by the laws, for fuch a trifling 
tranfgreffion as Healing a bit of bread. ^ It is ftrange 
that he will difcover his ignorance in every line.^ They 

are 

5[ Many of the penal laivs of the ijlands^ relating i9 
JlaveSi may, atfrftjighf, appear harjh\ and give an unfa^ 
vourahle idea of the clemency of our legijlatures ; hut on ex* 
amination^ they <will appear excufahle and ahfolutely necef 
fary to the fafety and good government of the ijlands^ 
The difproportion of white and black inhabitants, is there 
very great ; and felf-prefervation, that firft and ruling prin* 
ciple of human nature, alarming our fears, has made us jea- 
lous, and perhaps fevere in our threats agaijifl delinquents, 
Befdes, if ive attend to the hifory of our penal lanus re* 
lating to Jlaves, I believe ^we foall generally find, that the f 
took their rije from fome very atrocious attempts made by 
the negroes, on the properties of their majierj, or after 
fome infurre6lio?t or cojiimotion, 'which f ruck at the very 
being of the colonies. Under thofe circumjlances it may 
very jujily he fuppofed, that our legijlatures 'when convened 
luere a good deal infla??ied, and might he induced for the 
prefervation of their perfons and properties, to pafs many 
fevere lu'Ws, 'which they fnighth^ld over their heads ^ to ter* 

riff 



{ ^9 ) 

(ftre never capitally punifKcd, except for the moft 
flagrant crimes — —none condemned without the clear- 
ed proofs notorious a<fts of theft, which in Eng- 
land would bring any perfon to the gallows, are only 
punilhed with a few ftripes ; and upon enquiry it will be 
found, that there are fewer capital punifhments in the 
Weft-Indies, than in any other part of the world, a- 
mong the fame number of inhabitants. Once in a dozen 
of years, perhaps, a negro has h^tn burnt qy gibbeted 
for an atrocious murder : But have not there been 
inftances of people fuffering the former punifhment in 
England ; and much feverer tortures than either, are 
common among the moft civilized nations in -Europe. * 
The accufation of their being Jfarved, is equally 
groundlefs* A planter will deny himfelf the common 
necelTaries of life, rather than let his negroes want, for 
he cannot expecft them to work, unlefs they are proper* 
ly fed. He had rather fupport them at the yearly ex- 
pence of half their worth, than by ftarving them, have 
his land improperly cultivated, and endanger the io:Qng 
of them altogether. There is no fixed allowance for new 
negroes; as they will alv/ays get the moft expenfive food 
rather than they fhould appear meagre. However, they 
are in common allowed muc]i more than any perfon can 

l> ' ' be 

Ttfy and rejlraln the?n» 

■ * To have an idea oftvrfurgf^ it ^ill hd nscejfary t&'' 
Tfad an account of thofe infiided upon Damien (lyiho at- 
itmptsd to affafmaie the King of France) and the confpi- 
rators againji the life of the prefent King ofPcrtugal. 



bs ftippofed to eat. The allowance of conntry born Keai« 
thy negroes is confiderabiy iefs, and at firft fight, may 
appear a fcanty proviiion, but in fa<5l, the greateft part 
could maintain themfclves moft part of the year, with- 
out any aSiftance from their mailer. By the conftant 
and regular vegetation in the Well-Indies, they have al= 
ways abundance of yams, potatoes, pompions, bananas, 
plantains, and a variety of food of the fame kind. They 
even difpofe of conliderable quantities, after fupplying 
themfelves. There are many negroes, who never have 
occalion to confume any of the corn received from their 
fnafters; it is employed in raiiing hogs and poukrys 
which they fell, and with the money purchafe rum, fine 
clothes, and a variety of luxuries. 

When we fee fuch contradi<5tory accounts publifhed, 
cf the manners of the people in Europe, one ought to 
be cautious in trufting to the relations of voyagers into 
diftant countries. There are very few authentick hifto- 
ries of the weft coall of Africa; and the^ inland parts, I 
believe, have hardly ever been vifited by an European. 
Some people, with a view to palliate the beaftly cuftoms. 
and grofs ftupidity of the natives, give us an account of 
the nations contiguous to the Moors, and a few on the. 
Gold coaft, who may be fomewhat more civilized than 
the reft. They muft be pretty much at a lofs, when 
they have recourfe to the Hottentots, to prove the civiliz- 
ation of the Africans. Their brutality, naftinefs, and 
indolence, can never be counterbalanced by their giving 
a few neceffaries to ftrangers. Other writeriJ-eprefent 



( it ) 

the Africans in different, and probably their real coloTirs. 
Though one cannot talk with any degree of certainty^ 
with regard to the fituation of the Africans, in their owa 
country, yet, veryjuft notions can be formed concern*, 
ing their difpofitions,. from the numbers which arc 
brought to the Weft-Indies from every quarter of that 
cxtenfive continent. It is^ impoffible to determine, with 
accuracy,^ whether their- in tellers or ours are fuperior, 
as individuals, no doubt, have not the fame opportuni- 
ties of improving as we have : However, on the whole^^ 
it feems probable, that they are a much inferior race of 
tXiQn. to the whites, iii every refped:. * We have no 
other method of judging, but by confidering their ge- 
nius and government in their native country. Africa, 
txcept the fmail part of it inhabited by thofe of our own, 
D,. z.. colour^ 



* / am apt Iq 'fufpe^ the~ mgrjttiy and ingentrali all the 
ather /pedes of r?zaft (for there arc four or five different 
kinds ) to he 7iaturally inferior tQ the 'whitej* There never 
fwas a civilized natioji of an^ other complexion than nvhite^ 
nor ever any individual i eminent either, in aCiion or fpeeu^ 
lation* No ingenious mamfaQures among ihem^ no- artSy 
no fciences^ On, the other hand^ the 7hofi rude and bar*- 
harass, of the nuhitesy fuch as the Ancient Germans, tht. 
frefent Tartars^ have flill fomething eminent about them^ 
in their valour ^ form of government ^ or fame other par ti^^ 
€ular. Such a uniform and conjiant differ e?ice could not ^ 
happen J in fo many countries and ages, if nature had not 
ra^di an original difinifion^ bet%Kiiy,t thefe breeds of men^. 

Nat 



{ 22 ) 

colour, IS totally over-run with barbarifm. There is not a 
kingdom of any eminence; it chiefly confifting of a num- 
ber of petty monarchies, perpetually at war with each 
pther ; and the fovereigns, are faid to have the lives and 
properties of their fubjedts at their abfolute difpofal. 
They are, in their own country, faid to be utterly un- 
acquainted with arts, letters, manufactures, and every 
thing which conftitutes civilized life. I never could ob- 
ferve the Africans have the moft dillant idea of a fu- 
preme Being, or that they paid him the fmalleft worfhip. 
they have a confufed notion of an evil fpirit, called a 
Jumhee, who is able to do them mifchief, and it is a cuf- 
toni among them, to hang a broken bottle, a bit of 
rag, or any thing elfe, by way of a charm, near 
their fmall fpots of ground, which they name Ohy» 
When their property is thus guarded, few negroes 
will have the boldnefs to Ileal any part of it. 
This, together with a few ceremonies, ufed at funerals, 
is all the religion they may be faid to pofTefs. They 
feem to be utterly unacquainted with friendfhip, grati- 
tude, and every tie of the fame kind. Great pains are 

taken 

Not to mention our colonies, there are negro Jlaves dif- 
perfed all over Europe , ofmjhich, none ever difcovered any 
Jymptoms of ingenuity: though lonu people, ^without edu- 
cation, <willjiart up among us, and dijlinguijh ihemf elves 
in every profejfion* In Jamaica, indeed, they talk of one 
negro, as a man of parts and learning ; hut it is likely he 
is admired for very fender acco^nplifhments, like a parrot, 
"who f peaks a fe^*words plainly. 

HtJ M E, vol. I, p. 254, Svo. cdlt« 



( *3 ) 

taken to give a Kigh colouring to the afFedmg fcenes 
between relations when parted at a fale ;* but I appeal 
to every one who has ever been prefent, at the difpofal 
of a cargo, if he has not feen thefe creatures, feparated 
from their neareft relations without looking after them, 
or wilhing them farewell. A few inftances may be 
found, of African negroes poffeffing virtues and becom- 
ing ingenious ; but ftill, what I have faid, with regard 
to their general charader, I dare fay, moft people ac- 
quainted with them, will agree to. -[• 

What is the reafon that the vaft continent of Afri- 
ca remains in the fame ftate of barbarifm, as if it had 
been cheated yefterday ? It muft, in all probability, be 
owing to a want of geniijs in the people; for it has had 
more chances of improving than Europe, from its vaft 
fuperiority in numbers of inhabitants. The ftupidity of 
the natives cannot be attributed to climate , for the 
Moors, who are fituated at no great diftance from the 
blacks, have always made a figure in hiftory, and the 
Egyptians were one of the firft nations that became emi- 
nent 

* A gentleman of my acquaintance ajfures jne, thai he 
attended moji of the fales this year at Charlefo'wn, and 
only faiu fivo injlances of a 'rdu£iance at parting ; and 
another of my friends ^ nuho *was a clerk t^ojo years in one 
of the JirJ} Guinea houfes, in Grenada^ ajfures me^ thai 
he never fa^vj afingle inftance of the kind. 

f The Author of the Addrefs gives a fngle example of 
a negro girl ^writing a fen.v filly poems ^ to prove that the 
hlacks are not deficient to us in underfandingy 



( ^^ ) 

aent for tlieir progrefs In the arts. I might, Iikewife,, , 
mention the ingenious turn of many of the Afiaticks, ia 
the fame latitudes : And if we look at the Chinefe, we 
may obferve what improvements, a fingle nation of 
whites, can make in every thing that is ufefuland ele- 
gant. 

I T is no fmall difgrace to our anceflors, the ancient 
Britons, to be compared with the modern Africans. It 
is even probable, that they were not fo barbarous as re- 
presented by the Roman authors, who, generally, gave 
an exaggerated pidure, of the manners of the people 
with whom they were at war, that they might have an 
excufe for their lawlefs ambition. The Britons were 
remarkable for their intrepidity and warlike difpoiition, 
and it is likely, that if the diiferent kingdoms had been 
united, Julius Caeiar never could have conquered them. 
Their Druids are faid to have poffefied fome fliare of 
learning; and the fongs of the hards are> Hkewife^ 
worthy of attention : The Inftances of magnanimity a- 
among their chiefs, attra<5t our admiration. When did 
we ever hear of a Cara6iactis or a Bdadicea exiHing in 
. Africa ? 

Even the Ahorigines of Americay have fhewn their 
fuperiority over the Africans. The vaft empires of Mexi- 
co and Peru, their government, the magnificence of the 
emperors, the grandeur of the temples and publick 
buildings, the uncommon fituation of the city of Mexico* 
built upon piles in the middle of a lake: Thefe, and a 
variety of other circumilances, make us entertain a high 

opinion of their genius. 

It" 



( 25 ) 

I T IS fomewhat ftrange, that there is a great diiFe- 
rcnce between the negroes imported from Africa, and 
thofe born in the Weft-Indies. The greateft part of th^ 
former are to the laft degree ftupid, lazy, and forbid- 
ding in their perfons : The latter have muchfuperior in- 
tellers, and are by far more inclinable to work. They 
may likewife, be diftinguilhed at firft fight, from the 
former, by the fuperior robuftnefs of their perfons, their 
vivacity of afpe<51:, fraoothnefs of fkin, and regularity of 
features. When an eftate is fold, they are appraifed 
much higher than the natives of Africa ; yet it is endea- 
voured to make us believe, that negroes pine and dege- 
nerate in our part of the world. 

I AM little acquainted with the method of carrying 
on the flave trade, and, therefore, fliall fay little on the 
fubjed. It appears plain, however, that Haves are 
bought In the fair courfe of trade, and that the Europe- 
ans have feldom, or never, an opportunity of carrying 
them off by Health, though they were inclinable. It is, 
likewife, certain, that thefe creatures, by being fold to 
the Europeans, are often faved from the moft cruel 
deaths, or more wretched flavery to their fellow barba- 
rians. 



I AM at a lofs to know, by what authority the Au- 
thor of the Addrefs alferts, that wars were uncommon 
among the negroes, till their intercourfe began with 
the whites. The condud of favages in every other part o£ 
the world, and of feveral tribes of blacks, among whom 

there 



( 26 ) 

there is no flave trade, convinces us, that all uncivilized 
iiations are frequently fighting againft one another. 

When negroes are expofed to fale, Inftead of being 
difpirited, they often fhew iigns of mirth. When indivi- 
duals feem attached to their relations, they are feldora 
or never feparated; as no perfon would be foolifh 
enough to buy a negroe that appeared diftreffed, fmce 
iie muft run no fmall rifque of loling him. 

Wh E N a planter takes home a parcel of new flaves. 
It is not to be imagined that he will endanger the lofs of 
greatpart of his fortune, by forcing them to work before 
they are able. They are attended with the fame care as 
if they were infants, and many of them, who turn out well 
afterwards, will not be able to do the fmalleft: fervice 
for above a twelvemonth. Others, though they may 
have no vilible diforder, in fpite of every care, can ne- 
ver be perfuaded to work, and remain, for many years, 
a dead burthen to the proprietors. Many of thefe ufe- 
lefs negroes have been purchafed by mafters of veffels, 
and carried to North America; by change of air they 
fometimes recover, and help to confirm the idle reports 
of cruel treatment in the Weft-Indies. 

There is always abundance of eafy work about s 
fugar plantation, for the weakly negroes, fuch as weed- 
ing and taking care of the live ftock. The employment 
of the more robuft is moderate, and not more feverc 
than the labour of peafants in other countries, 

Ths 



( 27 ) 

The common accufation, that the Weft-Indies are 
oljHged to have fupplies from Africa, to keep up their 
lumbers is very unjuft.* No doubt great numbers, have 
been imported within thefe twenty or thirty years, but 
that is owing to the improvements that have been car- 
ried on in all the iflands, not from any decreafe. They 
have almoft doubled their quantity of produce withia 
the time I mention, which could not have been accom- 
plifhed without a proportional addition of flaves. Many 
cftates have at prefent, even more than twice the num- 
ber of negroes that belonged to them ten years ago. 
The ceded iflands have, likewife, created a vaft de- 
mand fince the late general peace. It mull be obferved, 
however, that if a planter fettles an eftate entirely with 
yienu negroes, his gang will rather diminifh I but if it 
conilfts chiefly of Creoles, the contrary will be the cafe. 

I SUPPOSE that many more negroes would be born in 
die Weft-Indies, than are at prefent, if their increafe was 
not checked by the irregularities of both fexes-, and their 
careleflhefs in preferving their health. They frequently 
affemble, after their woi% is over, and dance great 
part of the night. Inftead of going home they 
often fleep in the open air, which expofes them to num- 
berlefs diforders. I may add, that the misfortunes they 
meet with are moftly of their own feeking. 

A NEGRO may be faid to have fewer cares, and lefs 
reafoij to be anxious about to-morrow, than any other 

E individual 

* // // impoffille to determine nxihat qua?itity of negroes 

is purchafed by the EngliJJ? planters for their o^n ufe, by 

teaming the numbers imported from Africa^ as the Englijt7^ 

not only Jupply themfelves hut, likenuife, in a ^rfflt m^a* 

Jure, the French^ Dutch i and Spaiiiards, 



( *8 ) 

individual of our fpecies. A favage may be unfuccefs- 
ful againft his enemies, and in the chace. The former 
may expofe him and all his family to a miferable 
death, and the latter to the horrors of famine. It is a 
very rare inftance indeed, when the negro does not re- 
ceive his ufual quantity of provifions ; and he is entirely 
imacquainted with all the diilreffes attendant upon war. 
The negro, It is true, cannot eafily change his mafter, 
but to make amends for this inconvenience, he enjoys the 
fingular advantage, over his brother in freedom, of being 
attended with care during ficknefs, and of having the fame 
provifion in old age, as in the days of his youth. Inftead of 
being opprelTed to feed a large family, like the labourer 
in Europe, the more children he has, the richer he be- 
comes ; for the moment a child is born, the parents re- 
ceive the fame quantity of food for its fupport, as if It 
%vere a grown perfon; and in cafe of their own death, i£ 
they have any refledion, they will quit the world with 
the certainty, of their children being brought up with 
the fame care they formerly experienced themfelves. 

I SHOULD treipafs too much on the patience of my 
readers, if I were to give a minute detail of the man- 
jier of living of the negroes ; but from what I have al- 
ready mentioned, I dare fay it will appear, that they 
do not fufFer thehardfhips that are fo pathetically repre- 
fented by many people, who are totally unacquainted 
with the Weft-Indies.* I repeat that felf intereft (which 

generally 

* Before this treatlfe nvas made puhliCy IJhenved it to 
Jeveral of 7?iy friends y noiv in this place y many of ivhom 
had fpent a great nu?nber of years in the Weji-Indies, they 
agreed that every thing mentioned^ relative to that part of 
the njoorldy nvas Jujl, and they are^ likeiuife, ready Jo givfi 
iheir names if required* 



(. 29 > ■ 

generally overpowers the moll violent. of our paffions) 
will fecure them eafe and plenty, though their owners 
fliould be deaf to the calls of humanity ; and when peo- 
ple are aflured by well attefted fa(3:s> that they feldom 
are deftitute of both thefe proteflors,. every one muft ac- 
knowledge they ought to be envied, rather than pitied, 
by the poor of other countries. They may be pronounced 
happier than the common people of many of the arbi- 
trary governments in Eufope,f and even feveral of the 
peafants in Scotland and Ireland. Our happinefs is in 
a. great meafure comparatrve. The negroes may experi- 
ence fome inconveniences which their white brethren are 
not expofed to,, but in their turn they enjoy advantages 
not known to the others ; and at any rate, if itlhouldbe 
granted, that they have not fo great a ftiare of the good 
things of this life, as the vulgar of fome other coun- 
tries; yet they by no means deferve to be painted out, as- 
a people that endure more hardfhips than many of our 
other fellow creatures, who are infinitely their fuperiors 
in every thing that conftitutes genius, 

I SHALL take my leave of the Addrefler and others 
who have written in the fame ftiie, with wilhing, that 
they may, for the future, employ th^plr talents on more 
ufeful fiibjeds. They will find that their labours will 
have a much better chance of reforming the abufes they 
complain of, by offering rational propofals of improve- 
ment, than by indulging themfelves in fuch idle chimeras. 
What advifes the ruin of a number of individuls, can. 
not be called a fcheme of publick utility. Thefe gentle- 
men, perhaps, think it meritorious, to give the twenti- 
eth, or even fiftieth, part of their income to the poor,. 

yet 

f The PoUJlo peafants y ^tis faid, are fold along ijcith an 
cflate^ in the fa??ie manner as negroes^, 



. t 3^ ) 

yet they gravely defire a numerous body of Briti^ fub- 
je(5ts, to beggar themfelves and families, to gratify their 
caprice. Ail the while too, they profefs huftianityt 
shrift tan charity ^ and brotherly love.'— -God defend mc 
from the/e virtue/, if they could produce fuch effeds ! 

I F the Author of the Addrefs were to become owner 
©f a Weft-India eftate, by the death of a relation, or 
fome other unexpected means, can he lay his hand on 
his heart, and, with a iafe confcience, fay that he 
would inftantly free all his ilaves and deftroy his fugar^ 
i-vorks ? I am afraid he would hefitate, if we may judge 
from the condud of others. Many of the firmeft fup- 
porters of religion, in England, both clergy and laity 
(whofe names I could mention) have no fcruples to be 
ciafters of Weft-India plantations. Until the AddrefTer 
reduces to pradice, what he points out to others, peo- 
ple muft fufped that he writes iiovci felfiJJ7 77iotives^ and 
that he advifes, what is foreign to his real opinion. I 
even imagine that he may mifs his aim, if he has inte- 
refted views, for, though he may ingratiate himfelf 
with many gloomy fanatic ks, yet he muft lofe the e- 
Aeem of men of fenfe, and of a rational way of thinking. 

I SHALL, laftly, obferve, that a perfon can hardly 
err fo groily, as not to be able to make attonement. I 
flatter myfelf that, upon mature refle<ftIon, the Author 
of the Addrefs, will candidly confefs, that his treatife 
was haftily written, without having fufficient proofs for 
what he advanced, and be forry for his ungenerous 
abufe of a fet of men, whom he never had an opportuni- 
ty of knowing, and who, I dare fay, never injured him> 

FINIS. 



