Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/counterappealinaOOmart 






' S %^ ? x?£&/ * 







A 

COUNTER APPEAL, 



A 

COUNTER APPEAL, 

IN ANSWER TO 

'« AN APPEAL" FROM WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, Esq. M.P. 

DESIGNED TO PROVE THAT THE 

Emancipation of the Negroes in the West Indies, 

BY A. 

WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE PLANTERS, 

WOULD BE 

A FLAGRANT BREACH OF NATIONAL HONOUR, 

HOSTILE TO THE PRINCIPLES 

OF 

RELIGION, JUSTICE, AND HUMANITY, 

AND HIGHLY INJURIOUS TO 

THE PLANTER AND TO THE SLAVE. 



BY SIR HENRY r WILLIAM MARTIN, Bart. 



Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. — EXODUS. 
Blame not before thou hast examined the truth; understand first, and then rebuke. 

ECCLESIASTICUS, 



PRINTED FOR C. & J. RIVINGTON, 

ST. paul's church-yard, 

AND WATKRLOO-PLACE, PALL-MALL ; 
AND SOLI) BV LLOYD, HARLEY-STREET 

1823. 



.710 



Printed by R. Gilbert, St. John's-Squars, London. 



TO 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS 

WILLIAM HENRY, 

DUKE OF CLARENCE, 

&c. &c. &c. 



Sir, 

Your Royal Highness having acquired a 
perfect knowledge of the situation and 
treatment of the Negroes during your 
Naval career, by visiting every island in 
the West Indies, can fully appreciate the 
accuracy of any statement respecting the 
Colonial system. 

I feel greatly honoured by the permis- 
sion of dedicating to your Royal Highness 
this humble attempt to vindicate the cha- 



VI DEDICATION. 

I 

racters, and to assert the rights, of the 
West India Planters. 

That your Royal Highness may enjoy 
every blessing, both temporal and eternal, 
is the fervent prayer of 

Sir, 
Your dutiful 

And humble Servant, 
H. W. MARTIN. 

Upper Harhy-sireei , 
29th April, 1823. 



PREFACE. 



I must apologize, to those who may take the 
trouble of perusing this Pamphlet, for the 
defects, which I fear they will find but too nume- 
rous as to its style and execution. 

My excuses are pressure of time, and inexpe- 
rience in this sort of composition ; and my 
motives for writing-, under such circumstances, 
an earnest desire of assisting to preserve the lives 
and properties of the Planters, and to refute the 
various calumnies which have been set forth 
against them in the " Appeal," and in other 
Publications of our adversaries ; for i( they 
speak not peace, but devise deceitful matters 
against them that are quiet in the land, " 
(Psalms.) 

29th April, 



COUNTER APPEAL, 



The Mottoes in the " Appeal" of Mr. Wilber- 
force, are these : 

'* Woe unto him that buildeth his house by un- 
righteousness, and his chambers by wrong ; that useth 
his neighbour's service without wages, and giveth him 
not for his work." — JEREMIAH. 

" Do justice and love mercy." — Micah. 

The first of these quotations (a direct ana- 
thema) is highly unjust, as applied to the Plan- 
ters ; for they give abundant remuneration to 
the negroes ; I therefore reply, 

" The curse causeless shall not come." 
As to the second, " Do justice and love mercy," 

B 



2 

I have no reason to doubt that the Planters, as 
well as other persons, endeavour to make so good 
a precept the rule of their conduct. 

For the better convenience of answering the 
statements of Mr. Wilberforce, I will arrange 
my argument under three heads, and endeavour 
to prove- 
First, that slavery was not unjust in its 
origin, and is not unjust in its continuance, nor 
displeasing to God* 

Secondly, that, as existing in the West Indies, 
it is not contrary to humanity. 

And thirdly, that it cannot now be safely or 
advantageously abolished in the West Indies. 

To begin with the first, I will refer to the Bible 
for the origin of slavery, and in the 9th chapter 
of Genesis, it is thus written, 

Ver. 25. " And he (Noah) said, cursed be Canaan, 
a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren." 

26. " And he said, blessed be the Lord God of 
Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant." 

27. " God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall 
dwell in the tents of Shem, and Canaan shall be his 
servant." 



3 

This prophetical curse is still fulfilling- in the 
descendants of Ham and Canaan, 

Abraham, " the friend of God," and father of 
the faithful, who lived four hundred years before 
the Mosaic law was given, possessed servants 
" bought with money," and was not rebuked for 
it by the Almighty ; but, on the contrary, when 
he and his household are commanded to perform 
that rite which answers to the sacrament of bap- 
tism in the Christian Church, servants " bought 
with money" are specifically included. 

From Abraham I will proceed to the time of 
Moses, and in Leviticus he will be found in- 
structing the Israelites in what manner to select 
their bondmen, (whom Bishop Patrick explains 
not only to be slaves, but slaves under the most 
absolute dominion of their owners # ). 

Chap. xxv. ver. 44. " Both thy bondmen and thy 
bondmaids which thou shalt have, shall be of the 
heathen that are round about you, of them shall ye 
buy bondmen and bondmaids." 

45. *' Moreover of the children of the strangers 
that do sojourn among you, of them shall ye buy, 
and of their families which are with you, which they 

* Vide D'Oyly and Mant's Bible. 
B 2 



4 

begat in your land, and they shall be your posses- 
sion, and ye shall take them as an inheritance for 
your children after you, to inherit them for a posses- 
sion, and they shall be your bondmen for ever." 

If it> should be said that the Mosaic Law does 
not apply to us, I answer, that the curse of Noah 
was this — that Canaan should be a servant to 
Japheth, from whom we descend, as well as to 
Shem, from whom come the Israelites; conse- 
quently, as Moses sanctioned the descendants of 
the latter, in taking slaves, it must follow, that the 
descendants of the former were equally sanc- 
tioned, and the wording- of the Law clearly 
alludes to slavery as being then in a state of ex- 
istence, for it only instructs the Israelites inwhat 
'manner they are to take their slaves. 

But finally, to set the question quite at rest, I 
will shew that slavery was recognized and sanc- 
tioned under the Christian Dispensation, for 
which purpose I will make a quotation from 
Bishop Tomline's Elements of Christian Theo- 
logy, vol. i. p. 448 — 451 (the subject is the Epis- 
tle of St. Paul to Philemon). 

" The occasion of writing the Epistle was this : 
Onesimus, a slave of Philemon, had run away 



from him, and taken up his residence at Rome; 
St. Paul having* met with him there, converted 
him to Christianity, and reclaimed him to a sense 
of his duty; he then sent him back with this 
Epistle, written with his own hand, to Philemon, 
requesting him to receive his slave thus con- 
verted and reclaimed, again into his family." — 
" This is a plain proof that Christianity was not 
intended to make any alteration in the civil con- 
ditions of men. Paul considered Onesimus, al- 
though converted to the Gospel, as still belonging 
to his former master, and by deprecating the 
anger of Philemon, he acknowledged that Onesi- 
mus continued liable to punishment for the mis- 
conduct of which he had been guilty previous to 
his conversion." 

I hope the foregoing quotation is quite conclu- 
sive. 

That slavery still exists to a very great extent 
in Africa, is universally known, indeed Mr. 
Mungo Park asserts, in his first travels in Africa, 
that " seven-eighths of the negro population of 
that country (the descendants of Ham) are in 
hopeless and irredeemable slavery." 

Having thus traced the origin and progress of 

7 



6 

this state of servitude, who will presume to assert 
that it is an unjust punishment upon the descen- 
dants of Ham, for his individual transgression ? 
He who does must also maintain, that toil, sor- 
row, and death, are unjust penalties upon the 
posterity of Adam for his personal crime : both 
were the denunciations of the Almighty, both 
therefore are equally just or unjust, both must 
stand or fall together. 

I have shewn that slavery is the state which it 
has pleased God to allot to a particular race of 
men, and I have traced its existence through the 
Patriarchal, the Mosaic, and the Christian Dis- 
pensations, under each of which it has been dis- 
tinctly sanctioned in the Holy Scriptures, and St. 
John in the Apocalypse speaks of " bond and 
free," as existing classes to the end of the world *. 



* But Mr. Wilberforce and his friends the Quakers, if 
they calculate upon the universal abolition of slavery, must 
think that " God who spake in time past by his prophets" 
is mistaken as to its duration, like some geologists, who, as 
the poet Cowper writes, 

" drill and bore 

The solid earth, and from the strata there 
Extract a register, by which we learn 
That He who made it, and revealed its date 
To Moses, was mistaken in its age." — The Task 



I therefore maintain, that no person who re- 
spects the authority of the Sacred Volume can 
ascribe criminality to those who possess slaves 
bought with money, or received as an inherit- 
ance*. Nevertheless, the planters are vilified for 
such possession by Mr. W. and his partizans, in 
their various publications ; for however these may 
be occasionally interspersed with idle and unde- 
sired compliments, the planters are not to be 
diverted from their real tendency: for, in the lan- 
guage of the Psalmist, " Their words are 
smoother than oil, yet be they very swords/' 

Having now disposed of the first head of my 
argument, and proved, That slavery was not 
unjust in its origin, and is not unjust in its 
continuance, nor displeasing to God, I shall 
proceed to the second, That slavery, as existing 
in the West Indies, is not contrary to humanity. 

To explain this part of the subject, I had 
drawn up a very minute detail of the situation 
and treatment of the negroes upon a plantation, 
but deeming it too great an encroachment upon 
the time and patience of my reader, I have only 
retained the following outline. 



* In ray own case to the fourth generation. 



8 

The Negroes have moderate labour, estimated 
individually, even before the introduction of the 
plough *, at less than one half that of an English 
day labourer ; they have ample time allowed for 
their meals, viz. half an hour for breakfast, and two 
hours for dinner; they are well clothed twice a 
year ; they are abundantly fed by the planter, so 
as to need no other resources ; yet they have,, for 
their sole use, mountain or other land on the 
estates, and considerable gardens round their 
cottages ; in both of which they have all the tro- 
pical fruit trees, as shaddock, mangoes, oranges, 
limes, lemons, and numerous others, also pine 
apples, melons, cassada, arrow-root, and most of 
the English vegetables; and they breed pigs and 
poultry : all these articles they consume them- 
selves, or sell at the markets. Their treatment, 
as to discipline and punishment, is certainly much 
milder than that of the sailor or soldier. The 



* The English plough is now getting very generally into 
use ; my own land is wholly cultivated by it. I once mea- 
sured the garden of a field negro on my property, it 
lay round his cottage, and was 120 yards in length, and 
35 yards in width ; and fully cropped. In proof that 
their cottages, &c. are esteemed their exclusive pro- 
perty, I hired some houses and 17 rooms, at one dollar 
per month for each room, from the negroes upon my 
own property ; for the accommodation of a gang which I 
had purchased from an estate till houses were built for their 
occupation. 



9 

Negroes have the best medical care ; each estate 
has an hospital, attended twice a week invariably 
by a professional gentleman of the first respecta- 
bility; and, in cases of dangerous sickness, or 
surgical operations, daily, or as much oftener as 
he may consider necessary, for all which extra 
business he receives additional payment. 

Convenient lock-up houses are built near the 
hospital, for the confinement of men and women, 
sepaiately, as a punishment; which is substituted 
for personal infliction, whenever it can reason- 
ably be done, and, in respect to women, inva- 
riably, as far as my own actual knowledge ex- 
tends. No punishment on a plantation can ex- 
ceed thirty-nine lashes, (without the order of a 
magistrate,) and this is generally for such crimes 
as in England would be death. Many, or most 
of their punishments arise from the idle and ill- 
disposed robbing the gardens of the industrious ; 
and I can affirm, that even when a few lashes 
(eight or ten) are necessary (where confinement 
for similar offences may have failed) it is really 
trifling, as compared to one half the number 
given by the cat in the navy or army ; and a white 
person always attends the punishment. If the 
Negroes consider themselves ill-treated, they can 
(and sometimes do) complain to the sitting ma- 



10 

gistrates for the week, or to the governor, who is 
generally a military officer of high rank, with 
every motive to act impartially, and their real 
grievances are properly redressed. For great 
matters they are always under the protection of 
the law. They have a regale, or harvest home, 
when the crop is finished,, and three or four holy- 
da}^ at Christmas, with presents of particular 
articles of provision *. 

They are mostly members of the Moravian 
Church, many of the Church of England, and 
some, I am sorry to say, of no Churchy I mean 
Dissenters, who are generally dissatisfied, self- 
sufficient, and troublesome ; very few, I believe, 
are Heathens. They all have the opportunity of 
attending the Parish Churches or Moravian Cha- 
pels. On Sundays I have constantly noticed both 
men and women, neatly dressed, proceeding in 
parties to attend Divine Service. The Moravian 
Priests receive annual presents for their religious 
attendance upon the Negroes f : 

* If it should be said, that I merely describe what is done 
upon my own property, I answer, that I certainly state such 
particulars as have come under my own knowledge ; but I 
conceive they may be taken as a fairfcmedium specimen of 
general usage. 

f I paid 100/. last year towards erecting a new Mora- 
vian chapel near my estates. 



li 

After the foregoing statement, my reader will 
probably be surprised at the following quotation 
from the first page of Mr. W.'s Appeal : " The 
Negro slavery in the British colonies is a system 
of the grossest injustice, of the most heathenish 
irreligion and immorality, of the most unprece- 
dented degradation and unrelenting cruelty ; a 
national crime of the deepest moral malignity: 
containing those essential and incurable vices 
which will ever exist wherever the power of man 
over man is unlimited/' 

This violent and abusive language I can rea- 
dily forgive; but the last sentence, implying 
unlimited power to be possessed by the planter 
over the Negro, is an assertion too ridiculous for 
any person pretending to write on West India 
affairs. 

Again, in page 21 he says, " Licentiousness is 
not confined to the Negroes ; the fact is perfectly 
notorious, that it has been the general policy to 
employ, instead of married managers and over- 
seers, single young men, as the immediate super- 
intendantsof the gangs, and hence it too naturally 
follows, that they who from their being the depo- 
sitaries of their master's authority ought to be 



12 

the protectors of the purity of the young females, 
too often become their corrupters." 

This is a gross and disgusting charge, and I 
utterly deny the notoriety of such a policy, for 
I never even heard of it ; and, if any planters 
pursued it, they must be blind to their interest, 
as well as careless of their reputation, for the 
general policy is, to have black, and not mon- 
grel children *. 

In page 24, Mr. W. favours us with his further 
opinion of the West India system, describing its 
physical evils as " cruel, odious, and pernicious, 
but that the almost universal destitution of re- 
ligious and moral instruction among the slaves, is 
the most serious of all its vices.'' 

The planters recommend and urge the Negroes 
to attend to their religious and moral duties, but 
as they dare not presume to take upon them- 
selves the office of the priesthood, like our modern 
methodists, what more can they do ? Are they to 
force religion and morality upon the negroes, vi 
et armis -\ f 

* I give ray manager five pounds for every black child 
born alive upon my property, and five pounds annually for 
each increase beyond the decrease in the whole population. 

| I conceive that English gentlemen would not be 



IS 

It is affirmed, page 27, ' ' that the gift even of 
the Sabbath is more than the established econo- 
mist of a sugar plantation permit even the most 
independent planter to confer, while the law 
tacitly sanctions its being- wholly withheld from 
them." 

I think it was Mr. Barham who said, ie he had 
never met a person less acquainted with the 
real state of West India affairs than Mr. W. or 
who had more obstinately rejected information 
upon the subject." Probably Mr. W. forgot this 
precept of the wise son of Sirach, " Blame not 
before thou hast examined the truth, understand 
first, and then rebuke." Ecclus. xi. 7. 



well pleased to have their conduct brought under public 
discussion by an accusation that they did not do every thing 
(which their accusers might deem right) for the religious 
and moral improvement of their servants, labourers, or de- 
pendents. 

I can truly say, that I never heard the Liturgy more 
solemnly and impressively read, nor better sermons preach- 
ed, both as to matter and manner, than by the Rev. Mr. 
Harman, rector of St. John's, in the Island of Antigua ; the 
body of the church was always filled with Negroes, whose 
attention to the service, and punctuality in kneeling and 
standing, at the proper time, was truly commendahle, aud 
many made use of their Prayer Books. The clerks in all 
the Parish Churches are invariably men of education, which 
greatly adds to the effect of the church service. 



14 

The above assertion respecting the sabbath, as 
well as the numerous other mistatements in the 
" appeal" sufficiently confirm the remark of ]\£r. 
Barham. 

In pages 39, 40, Mr. W. recommends attach- 
ing the Negroes to the soil, against which the- 
ory I will state a case. 

A planter has a sugar estate, which from the 
low prices of sugar and rum, and the enormous 
duties upon them, is become wholly inadequate to 
the support of himself and his Negroes ; he is 
therefore obliged (like hundreds of others) to 
break up the establishment. The Negroes now 
become useless, might be sold in a body or in 
families *, and the estate appropriated to the pas- 

* When so to be sold they have permission to object 
against any particular master, or property ; and if upon 
good grounds, their objection usually prevails : I could 
prove this by several instances from my own knowledge, if 
proper to be done, without leave ; but I may speak in my 
own case, for having agreed to purchase the whole gang of 
Negroes from an estate, (situated exactly as the above) they 
came to me and said, that though they had no objection to 
make against me personally, that my land was stiff and labo- 
rious, and that I had no houses to accommodate them. I 
explained to them first that many hands made light work, 



15 

ture of cattle, or partially (where sufficiently 
fertile) to the growth of provisions. But if the 
Negroes were attached to the soil, they must 
either be employed as task gangs, to work upon 
other properties (which of all other situations is 
the most laborious and injurious) or they, and the 
planter, must be ruined, if not starved. 

In page 42, Mr. W. accuses the Colonial 
assemblies for imposing fines on the manumission 
of slaves, by which 1 infer that he is ignorant of 
their object, viz. to prevent unfeeling persons 
from emancipating old or crippled slaves merely 
to elude the expence of their care, maintenance, 
and taxation ; for by this act, the owners must 
pay into the Treasury a sufficient sum to support 
the freed person, or give a bond to that effect, 
jn case they should become a burthen upon the 
community. 

Page 43, it is said — " In truth West Indians 
must be exempt from the frailties of human na- 

and that I purposed to cultivate the land wholly with the 
plough. Secondly, that I had agreed to hire from ray own 
Negroes some houses and several rooms for their use till houses 
were built, on which they cheerfully agreed to come. The 
same gang of Negroes had previously objected to another 
property, and their objection was allowed. 



16 

lure, if living continually with those wretched 
beings, and witnessing their extreme degradation 
and consequent depravity, they could entertain 
for the Negroes in any unimpaired degree, that 
equitable consideration, and that fellow-feeling 
which are due from man to man so as to sympa- 
thize properly with them in their sufferings and 
wrongs, or form a just estimate of their claims to 
personal rights and moral improvements : and 
proves the criminality of committing to the 
Planters the destiny of the slaves." This is a 
severe assertion from a person who has no local 
knowledge; and comes with very bad grace 
from one so peculiarly charitable ! As far as 
my own experience and information extend, I 
can give it the most unequivocal contradiction 
as to its general application ; individual in- 
stances of bad feeling and bad conduct, may no 
doubt be produced against Planters, as well as 
every other class of persons, but I affirm that a 
mutual and very considerable degree of kind 
feeling does generally exist between the Planter 
and his Negroes ; and I utterly deny that the 
latter are the " wretched and degraded beings" 
which he describes them ; but, on the contrary, 
I contend that they have much shrewdness, 
ability, and feeling ; and continually evince the 
utmost attachment to the Planters, and their 



1? 

families : it is therefore highly disgusting to hear 
them so traduced, and by a Gentleman, profes- 
sing himself their great friend: but in his 
anxiety to disgrace and disparage the Planters, 
he overwhelms the Negroes in the general ca- 
lumny *. Their good humour, cheerfulness, and 
gaiety of disposition is notorious, I believe I may 
say proverbial f . 

In page 45, Mr. W. expressess himself to be 
extremely shocked and displeased at the assertion 
of the Planters and their partizans, " that the 

* If proof were wanted that the Negroes do not consider 
themselves so ill treated as their soi.disant friends assert, 
continual instances might be given of Negro servants (slaves) 
gladly returning to the West Indies with their masters. 
Last year a friend of mine sent his servant back at his re- 
quest. I have twice been applied to by Negroes personally 
who had run away from my property, and came to solicit 
me to send them out again ; thus voluntarily offering to re- 
turn to slavery. 

+ It surprised me on first visiting the West Indies to ob- 
serve the unchecked and often disputatious familiarity of 
the house Negroes, or servants ; and at large dinners I have 
frequently observed them wholly engrossed by listening to 
any good stories, and laughing loudly at them. If singing 
look place, it was impossible to keep them out of the room. 
I mention these anecdotes to confirm my statement, and to 
prove that the Negroes are not in a wretched state of ser- 
vitude. 

« 



18 

Ne°ro slaves are as well, or even better off than 
the British peasantry, a proposition so monstrous 
as to shew the extreme prejudice which must 
exist in the minds of its assertors.'' 

Nevertheless, I do assert it; the Negroes, as I 
stated before, are generally Christians, and 
equally, with the British peasantry enjoy the 
rest of the sabbath, and the opportunity of at- 
tending Divine Service on that day : both are 
the slaves of necessity, both are compelled to 
labour for their daily bread ; the peasant has no 
claims upon his employer beyond his daily wages, 
and if these should not be sufficient to support 
himself and his family, while he is able to work, 
and also to lay by enough for their maintenance 
when he can no longer labour, they have no al- 
ternative but quitting their cottages for the 
parish workhouse ; the miseries of which are too 
generally known to require comment. The 
Negro has no fear of being compelled to resort 
to such an asylum in his old age, but retains all 
the advantages he enjoyed in his youth ; and at 
his decease may leave his cottage to whom he 
pleases (belonging to the estate), and his money 
and moveables to any one without restriction. 

The Negroes having been born in a state of 



19 

• bondage, with no Record that their ancestors 
were ever in a different situation ; can have no 
natural wish for liberty : and if their minds be 
not disturbed at the instigation of meddling 
persons, there can exist no reason why they may 
not pass through life contentedly, in that situa- 
tion wherein it has pleased God to place them. 

Taking therefore what I have stated here, 
(and in page 8,) on the treatment &c. of the 
Negroes upon a plantation, I ask, whether com- 
paring their situation with that of the peasantry in 
this country, is ci such wretched sophistry as to 
insult the understandings of mankind?" Recol- 
lect it is the respective situations, not the per- 
sons which I compare, but Mr. W. artfully 
jumbles them together. 

The quiet and contented behaviour of the 
Negroes for some time past, has drawn the at- 
tention of the Planters to consider their farther 
amelioration, and especially as to their moral and 
religious improvement, for tin's purpose the 
Planters have been for some time past (and still 
are) employed in collecting from individual pro- 
prietors, the various plans and arrangements 
which they have adopted of late years upon 
their respective properties, for the greater corn- 

c2 



20 

fort and better management of their Negroes ;. 
intending to collect from these and other sources, 
such information as may enable them to form a 
general and uniform system ; and when it has 
been arranged into a practicable plan of amelio- 
ration, and of religious instruction, to submit it to 
the legislative authorities in the West India 
Colonies for their approbation, and by whom it 
might receive such particular and minute ar- 
rangements, as may be judged, by them, most 
proper for final adoption in each particular 
colony. 

When this plan of amelioration shall have 
been carried into execution, I am perfectly con- 
vinced that the Negroes will, in every point of 
view, be in a much better situation than they 
would be under emancipation, for in the latter 
state they could not obtain one half the comforts 
they possessed in the former: and therefore, it 
is a most false philanthropy to attempt changing 
their situation : and I have but little hesitation 
in declaring my opinion, that the better sort of 
Negroes (if they were not suddenly thrown into 
a state of ferment and temporary enthusiasm by 
the name of liberty) would decidedly reject the 
boon of emancipation, if coupled with a life of 
labour. 

7 



21 

I sincerely wish his Majesty's ministers would 
make arrangements with the proper authorities 
for the appointment of several orthodox clergy- 
men of the Church of England, or the Episcopal 
Church of Scotland, to proceed to the different 
Colonies, on sufficient stipends, to be paid from a 
fund established and maintained by government, 
which no doubt those gentlemen who seem so 
anxious for the religious instruction of the Ne- 
groes would most liberally assist by their dona- 
tions ; and to which I conceive most Planters 
would largely subscribe ; but all deficiency to be 
made good by government. These clergymen 
might be sent out solely for the religious and 
moral instruction of the Negroes ; and their du- 
ties so arranged as not to interfere, but to co- 
operate with the rectors of the different parishes 
in the Islands. I think much good might be 
effected by such a measure if judiciously con- 
ducted on sound Church principles, to the abso- 
lute exclusion of all persons who do not strictly 
maintain them. 

I hope I have now proved the second head of 
my argument, That slavery as existing in the 
West Indies, is not contrary to humanity. 

I will, therefore, proceed to the third division 
of my argument. 



That Slavery cannot now be safely or advan- 
tageously abolished. — 

The emancipation of the slaves in the West 
Indies, by a legislative enactment in this country, 
would be a breach of the colonial compact be- 
tween the mother country and her colonies, by 
which it has always been held, that all exterior 
regulations as to trade and commerce generally, 
was the undisputed right of the former : while 
all interior laws and regulations, whether for the 
purpose of raising supplies, &c. &c. or for the 
regulation of the slaves, was the undoubted pro- 
vince of the legislature of each colony : and 
although I am aware that many gentlemen of 
the new school have (when it suited their pur- 
pose) insisted upon the omnipotence of parlia- 
ment, yet 1 maintain, that such is the colonial 
compact, although might may certainly over- 
whelm right ; — but still truth and justice are im- 
mutable. 

The agitation even of such a measure would 
naturally tend to destroy the authority and in- 
fluence which the Planters ought to possess over 
the Negroes : liberty and equality would be the 
order of the day; anarchy, confusion, and mas- 
sacre would soon follow ; as we had a dreadful 

t 



23 

example in St. Domingo immediately on the pro- 
mulgation of the decree by the National Assem- 
bly of revolutionary Prance, declaring* the eman- 
cipation of the Negroes in that Island: awful 
indeed it was, and ought to make every consci- 
entious man hesitate, and deeply consider the 
responsibility he takes upon himself, by advo- 
cating any measure likely to lead to such a catas- 
trophe in the British West Indies ; and when 
such a measure is in every point of view so dan- 
gerous, and so uncalled for. In fact the French 
decree only went the length of determining to 
send out commissioners to St. Domingo, to ex- 
amine in what manner liberty might safely be 
given to the slaves ; but they did not choose to 
await any such measure, but rushed at once into 
insurrection and massacre. 

I will give one more very curious instance of 
emancipation, that at Cayenne. On this occasion 
orders were sent out from revolutionary France 
to Victor Hugues, to free the Slaves in that 
Colony ; this was done in a single day ; part of 
the Negro population agreed to work on the es- 
tates ; but the greater part refused to perform 
any labour, and committed the most horrid ex- 
cesses, which Victor Hugues at last repressed by 
force ; and declared to France, that it was im- 



m 

possible the Colony could exist in its present 
state. An order was then sent to him to reduce 
the Negroes again to slavery, which he effected 
by force of arms. When the remaining slaves 
were sent back to their several estates, a census 
was taken of their numbers, and it appeared that 
out of 12,000, which was the number before 
their emancipation, about 3,500 had perished by 
massacre amongst themselves, and slaughter in 
their conflicts with the troops, in less than two 
years. About this period also the Island of Gre- 
nada presented a horrid scene of insurrection 
and murder. 

These are instances which ought to impress 
every person with the imminent danger of agi- 
tating a question so likely to inflame the minds 
of the Negroes, as that of their emancipation ;— 
and I ask Mr. W. if this state of things would 
afford any facilities towards the moral and reli- 
gious improvement of the Negroes? On the 
contrary, I do maintain that any emancipation, 
that was not produced by the slow progress of 
time, would greatly tend to destroy whatever 
good principles the Negroes had imbibed ; for 
even if general anarchy and murder did not take 
place, at least idleness, drunkenness, and every 
species of debauchery would prevail, to the de- 



25 

struction of religion, morality, and human life ; 
indeed, it seems to me an almost self-evident 
case, that all these bad consequences would too 
fatally ensue, should any schemes of emancipation 
be agitated in Parliament ; for misrepresenta- 
tions and exaggerations would inflame the minds 
of the Negroes, before they could know the final 
decision on the subject. 

Can any thing be more wild or more contrary 
to all sound argument, than Mr. W's. declaration 
ie that the present is a golden opportunity of 
emancipation, and which might prevent the 
dreadful explosion* that may otherwise be ex- 
pected, when it is recollected that there is a com- 
munity of near 800,000 free blacks, many of 
them accustomed to the use of arms, within sight 
of the greatest of our West India Islands ; and 
when Cuba and Porto Rico present a slave popu- 
lation highly dangerous." 



* I know not what explosion he can anticipate, except 
what may be produced among the Negroes by his rash and 
unadvised scheme of emancipation. — In 1816, when Mr. W. 
and his party made their last assault upon the Planters re- 
lative to the registry bill, an explosion (as he calls it) did 
indeed take place in Barbadoes, where many estates were 
partly destroyed, and a vast number of lives were sacri- 
ficed. 



26 

I should not have copied tiiis long extract, if 
it had not contained the very best statement I 
could have produced against Mr. W. himself ; 
for it shews the extreme hazard of agitating, in 
England, the question of emancipation, with 
such a dangerous neighbourhood^ ready to pour 
itself into Jamaica the moment any disturbance 
took place among the Negroes, Indeed, to ex- 
pose that Island even to the risk of such a cala- 
mity, would evince great want of charitable 
feeling. 

Not one thought has Mr. W. deemed it rea- 
sonable to give to the interests of the Planters, 
or pointed out by what means their estates are to 
be cultivated, in case the Negroes should not 
take to a life of labour, for even the neglect of 
a few months would be fatal to many properties : 
the ruin of them and their families, 1 suppose, he 
considers as beneath his notice ; or probably he 
and his friends purpose dividing their English 
properties with the Planters. But even if the 
attempt to. emancipate the Negroes were not at- 
tended with all the danger and iniquity which I 
have pointed out, there exists no reasor able proof, 
that the Negroes would be better off in such a 
state, either as regards their eternal or their tem- 
poral happiness, than they are at present ; more 



27 

especially when it is considered that slaves can- 
not have the same idea of liberty which those 
who have always been free, entertain. It has 
however always been the artful policy of our 
various opponents so to represent the case of the 
West India Negroes, as to lead the imaginations 
of those who have not the means (or leisure) 
for ascertaining the fact, to the conclusion, 
that slavery has been imposed upon a class of 
persons who were previously in the enjoyment of 
liberty, and leading a pastoral life in Africa, than 
which nothing can be more contrary to truth, as 
may be proved by the different accounts of eye- 
witnesses, — one of whom I have already quoted, 
(Mr. Park) who says, ci seven-eighths of the 
Negro population are in hopeless and irredeem- 
able slavery." 

This measure of emancipation, brought for- 
ward as it is, by persons wholly unconnected 
with our colonies, does not display any great 
effort of philanthropy, as they could not them- 
selves be called upon for any sacrifice whatever, 
and the whole expense would fall entirely upon 
others ; but I do maintain that, whenever it may 
be in contemplation to adopt any great measure 
(whether of justice, policy, or humanity, or of all 
united) in which the public has a common inter- 



2$ 

est and concern, it would be highly unjust that it 
should be carried into effect at the expense of 
one class of the community only. This will be 
sufficiently obvious, and will come home to the 
understanding- of every one, if for the word 
slaves be substituted landed property, and for 
the West Indies, Yorkshire, Devonshire, or any 
other county, and the proprietors of such landed 
property be called upon to sacrifice it entirely, to 
defray the expense of carrying into execution 
some plan for the benefit of the public at large ; 
the monstrous absurdity and injustice of such a 
proposition, would then strike every person with 
astonishment, and yet preposterously absurd and 
iniquitous as it would be thought, it would not be 
in the smallest degeee more so, than a proposal 
for confiscating the property of the West Indians, 
whether it consist of land or slaves, for they hold 
their property by just as good a title as that of 
any landed proprietor in England. It is, in fact, 
the term slavery which inflames the passions of 
men, and prevents their forming a calm or de- 
liberate judgment. Let it, however, be recol- 
lected that the question is not whether slavery 
shall now be established, but whether the West 
India system, which has existed for nearly two 
centuries, shall now be abolished; which the 
British Nation itself, through its representatives, 



29 

established ; and gave every encouragement to 
British subjects to invest their capital in the 
colonies, and at their recommendation, and in per- 
fect reliance on its good faith, they embarked their 
property in the West Indies. It cannot, there- 
fore be believed, that the British Parliament will 
ever be induced to sacrifice its high character for 
honor and good faith at the shrine of fanaticism, 
and set an example to the world of unparalleled 
injustice and perfidy, (I mean if done without 
ample remuneration to the Planters,) but it is 
quite impossible that it should ever consent thus 
to invade the rights of private property, and 
thereby establish a precedent of the most alarm- 
ing tendency which would unsettle and render 
insecure every description of property, and 
sooner or later, shake the Constitution to its 
foundation ! 

No plea of religious motives can justify an 
attempt to procure even positive good, by the 
means of injustice, robbery, individual ruin, and 
probable murder; for nothing can be more ab- 
horrent to religion than the principle, that good 
ends may be obtained by bad means, li Thou 
shalt not do evil, that good may come." Such 
cases as these should be left to the disposal of 
Providence, who, it cannot be doubted, will, in 



30 

its own good time, produce, whatever is for the 
best, without the premature and mischievous in- 
terference of meddling and dangerous persons. 

One great difficulty with which the Planters 
have to contend is this : that persons, unac- 
quainted with West India affairs, but with the 
best intentions, are led away by an ardent love 
of liberty, to view slavery merely as an abstract 
question, without considering its bearing and 
effect upon the class of people now under dis- 
cussion : for they put the question to themselves 
thus: — How should I like to be a slave? — the 
answer being in the negative ; the conclusion is 
— I wish ail slaves free. I will, however, request 
the same question to be put as to any of the labour- 
ing classes in this country, as colliers, miners, 
&c, and the same result must ensue ; but yet they 
would not feel it incumbent upon them to endea- 
vour to raise those classes above the situation in 
which God has placed them 

I, therefore, hope it will not be asking those 
persons too much to request they will view 
slavery as it may really be supposed to affect the 
Negroes. 

For this purpose it may be well to refer to 



31 

page 8, and read the short statement of the 
present situation of the Neg-roes in the West 
Indies, and this done to consider what would 
probably be their situation in a state of eman- 
cipation, if it were possible to effect it in the 
most quiet manner ; and that they took to a life 
of labor for hire in the same manner as the 
English peasantry : for I suppose no one can 
contemplate any other situation for them ; indeed 
it is not possible to imagine so unjust a wish to 
enter any mind, as the division of the estates and 
effects of the Planters as plunder, amongst the 
freed Negroes ; {though such an event may he 
well dreaded) ; but to resume, let us see what 
their situation would probably be if emancipated. 
They would be free, and could refuse to work 
for their present masters. They would not be 
liable to personal punishment, or confinement, 
upon a plantation ; but they must be punished 
by order of the magistrates for all minor misde- 
meanors, and by the laws, as at present, for all 
greater; by which change I feel assured their 
punishments would be much more severe than at 
present. As to their means and opportunities 
for religious and moral improvement, 1 do not 
think they would be encreased. These are the 
most prominent changes that occur to my mind, 
as likely to be considered improvements. 

t 



32 

On the opposite side of the- question, the Ne- 
groes, to put themselves into the same situation of 
comfort which they enjoy at present, must procure, 
out of their daily wages, say Is. 6d. per day, ster- 
ling, cottages for themselves and their families, 
with gardens attached to them, and provision 
grounds detached, and conveniences for raising 
pigs and poultry ; and they must feed and clothe 
themselves, and pay for medical assistance and 
medicines; and they must, out of their wages, 
lay by a sufficiency to procure all these comforts 
and enjoyments, when, from accident or old age, 
they can no longer work, or they must quit them 
all, and retire to a poor-house, which, by the 
bye, would be entailing a severe and hitherto 
unknown expense upon the Planters, if they are 
expected to bear the charges of poor-house esta- 
blishments ; a system pregnant with so many 
evils in this country, as to be an object of un- 
ceasing anxiety and discussion in parliament. I 
have now endeavoured to lay the case fairly 
before my reader ; and I ask him for a con- 
scientious answer, whether he thinks that the 
condition of the negroes would be benefited or 
deteriorated by the exchange. 

If the answer be, that he thinks they would 
be benefited ; then I ask again ; does he con- 



33 

sider the expected improvement to be so great as 
to warrant, and justify the attempt to obtain it, 
at the imminent risk of insurrection, anarchy, 
murder, ruin, and all the miseries hitherto inva- 
riably attendant upon the dislocation, or disor- 
ganization of any civil society, wherever placed, 
or however, situated 

The Planters themselves, (of course I cannot 
include such merchants, or other persons, as hold 
mortgages upon properties, and upon the ne- 
groes,) would, I doubt, not be willing to grant 
emancipation to their negroes, (even at the sacri- 
fice of their intrinsic value, if they conceived it 
could be effected, by a sort of magic, without 
the imminent and obvious dangers so much to 
be dreaded, and the certain result of having 
their estates left for a time, and, perhaps, irre- 
mediably, without any cultivation, as it would 
relieve them from the forethought and anxiety 
necessarily attendant upon providing for, and 
managing the negroes ; and from the greater 
expence to which they are now put, than would 
be required by paying daily labourers ; and this 
is an obvious reason why the negroes would be 
worse off if freed ; because they would have to 
procure the same advantages, with much smaller 
means. Emancipation, however, may reason- 

D 



34 

ably be expected to arrive in the West Indies, 
in the same slow and imperceptible manner that 
W*>4 it took place in thejcountry, by the feudal system 
falling gradually into disuse ; but all impatient 
and imprudent attempts, to hasten such an event, 
and more especially by any legislative act in this 
country, would, in human probability, be at- 
tended with all or some of those dangerous con- 
sequences which I have pointed out, and thereby 
prevent, or greatly retard its accomplishment. I 
hope I have said sufficient upon the subject of 
the third and last head, to prove, ci That slavery 
cannot now be safely or advantageously abo- 
lished in the West Indies/' 

Having closed my argument under the three 
divisions, as arranged at the commencement of 
my Reply ; I must proceed in a desultory manner 
to answer several passages contained in f ' The 
Appeal:" though I am quite weary of finding 
so many statements brought forward which have 
again and again been disproved; it is indeed 
like combating a man of straw ; for though 
pierced through, at various times, by a thousand 
pointed facts, and unerring truths, he still 
remains 

" To fight again another day." 



35 

The assertions respecting the West India sys- 
tem, are all made with such consummate con- 
fidence, that it is difficult to believe the fact, that 
Mr. Wilberforce has no local knowledge what- 
ever *, and that all he states comes at second 
hand, like a Grub-street author, describing men 
and manners in countries, that he had never 
approached beyond the confines of his garret; 
for this good gentleman's philanthropy, however 
intense, has never carried him to the West In- 
dies, where he might see things as they really 
exist : but he appears satisfied ; to sit quietly at 
home, to brood over the West India system, and 
to hatch schemes of mischief with the African 
Committee, in a sort of Joint-stock Incubation 
Company, which, when brought to maturity, 
perhaps iC Mr. Stephen will have the honor to 
submit to the public, in a report drawn up for 
the express purpose, by himself" 

* Really the versatility of this gentleman's genius and his 
thorough information upon every subject, remiuds me of two 
lines of La Fontaine, when describing the character of 
Grippeminaud : 

" Cetait, 

Un taintYhomme de chat 
Arbitre expert sur tous les cas." 

Font. Fab. Le Chat, La Belette, ef 
Le Petit Lapin. 
d2 



36 

In page 21. Mr. W. indulges in a long rhap- 
sody, " addressed to the feelings of his readers/' 
which may certainly be an artful substitute for 
argument, but savours more of the serpent than 
the dove. He then falls into a complimental 
strain towards himself and friends, for having 
formerly entertained too favourable an opinion 
of the West India system — l< Risum teneatis ?" 

In pages 36 — 41. Mr. W. complains, lt that 
he and the African Institution are not satisfied as 
to the efficacy of the bills for the registry of slaves, 
and the prevention of clandestine importatation, 
passed by the different colonial legislatures." 

I answer. — To such importation felony is at- 
tached ; its accomplishment is nearly, if not ab- 
solutely, impossible ; and lastly, I defy him to 
adduce one instance of such a fact. 

In page 51, the opinions of Mr. Burke on sla- 
very are quoted, but in common justice it should 
have been added, that his opinions changed, after 
he had witnessed the horrors of the French Re- 
volution, for Mr. Stephen (whose authority Mr. 
W. will not deny,) says, " It produced in the 
mind of that great man (Mr. Burke) a coldness 
towards the cause of the abolition, and a morbid 
sensibility to the dangers of reformation." 



3? 

Mr. Pitt (whom Mr. Wilberforce also brings 
forward) said (during the abolition struggle) " to 
think of emancipating the slaves in the West 
Indies, would indeed be little short of insanity." 
To these I will add the weighty opposition to 
emancipation of Mr. W. for no one declared 
himself more decidedly against such a measure, 
and said he would actually oppose it if brought 
forward *. 

In page 66 we are favoured with some enco- 
miums upon the Sierra Leone establishment. 

I certainly know nothing of its present state, 
but many years after it had been under the di- 
rection of the African Institution, it was repre- 
sented by Dr. Thorpe (an eye-witness) as being 
most shamefully and vilely conducted ; and a 
gallant admiral, who was sent out expressly to 
examine the real situation of that establishment, 
entertained (if I am not much mistaken) a simi- 
lar opinion. 

In page 69 Mr. W. says, " No system of 
civil polity was ever maintained at a greater 
price, of was less truly profitable either to indi- 
viduals, or to the community, than that of our 
West India settlements." This idea, however 

* Vide Parliamentary Debates. 



38 

absurd, has certainly the merit of novelty. The 
Custom-house returns of imports and exports 
will however shew the vast income which the 
Colonies pour into our revenue, viz. 5,270,478/. 
annually, from a capital valued at one hundred 
millions sterling, independent of the undeniable 
assistance they give to the agricultural, mercan- 
tile, manufacturing, and shipping interests of the 
British empire ,• and last, though not least, the 
the unrivalled support they afford to our navy, 
by furnishing it with seamen in time of war*. 

* A short statement from the official returns made to the 
House of Commons this year, will shew the value and im- 
portance of the West India Colonies. 
The average is for five years ending 1st January, 1823 — 

Imports from the West Indies £8,000,000 

Exports to Do. of British Manufacture, &c. 4,209,518 

£12,209,518 
The Nett Income paid to the Revenue of 
Great Britain, by Customs and Excise, 

from West India Products . . ^5,270,478 

Ships employed in the West India Trade .... 800 

Tonnage Ditto 230,000 

Seamen Ditto 12,000 

The income of the Planters has been estimated at 
3,000,000Z. a great portion of which is expended in Eng- 
land. Is all this wealth to be sacrificed to the absurd 
schemes instilled into the minds of persons who are wholly 
unacquainted with the real situation of the negroes bv a set 
of designing and mischievous men ? 



39 

I hope I may not express myself too warmly, or 
say any thing which can be deemed personally 
offensive ; for I disclaim all such intention : but 
Mr. W. and his partizans seem so mixed up with 
their schemes and measures, that, in argument, 
they can hardly be separated. 

Much allowance should therefore be made, 
more especially as they are the assailing party ; 
for it is they who have lighted the torch of dis- 
cord, it is they who have opened Pandora's box, 
teeming with every ill, and entering the public 
arena, have thrown down the gauntlet of defi- 
ance ; they cannot therefore justly complain, if 
they should receive some wounds in the conflict, 
which they have themselves provoked : for is it 
not time that the Planters should grasp their 
bows, and select their arrows for defence ? espe- 
cially when the weapons of their opponents bear 
that deadly poison, which would destroy the vital 
principle that sustains themselves and their 
families, and probably their personal existence, 
and which they hurl against the Planters in perfect 
security, as to their own temporal interests, and 
as they profess under the shield of religion *, 

" Vide this profession in their various pamphlets. The 
good understanding which appears to subsist between 



40 



but in fact " they speak not peace, but devise 
deceitful matters against them that are quiet in 
the land" (Psalms.) 



Mr. Wilberforce and the Quakers is quite surprising, 
as there is an old saying, " Tell me your friend and I will 
tell you what you are." Now, as the Quaker denies the 
two great sacraments instituted by our Lord himself, viz. 
Baptism and the Eucharist, in which the very essence of 
Christianity consists, what is the Quaker 1 and here I can- 
not but observe that every true son of the Church should 
practise the Apostolic precept, " Mark them that cause 
divisions contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, 
and avoid them" (Romans.) 

John Bull has undauntedly given his powerful aid in op- 
position to the sin of schism, and to the dangerous and 
ambitious claims of the Romanists ; and I join heartily with 
him in honouring our King and supporting our constitution 
in Church and State. Unfortunately two severe wounds 
have been inflicted upon the National Church; the first, by 
permitting (or rather compelling) magistrates, to grant 
preaching licenses, at the cost of a few shillings, to any 
ignorant person who can procure a congregation. The 
second, by conceding the elective franchise to the Papists. 
By the first the door has been thrown wide open to the New 
Light, Vital Religion^ and the various other shades and 
grades of sectarianism, which I cannot even name, much 
less comprehend ; but all of which John Bull comprises 
under the general denomination of Humbug or Hum- 
funiism i 



41 

One mark and sign of the present times is, 
a spurious liberality of sentiment ; by one 
party it is bestowed exclusively upon felons, and 
the refuse of mankind, and / do not despair of 
seeing bodily labour abolished, as quite incon- 
sistent with genuine liberty ! All old institutions 
too, are to be reformed at the instigation of those 
who generally need the most radical reform of 
their own bad principles and conduct. Another 
party is clamorous to manage the concerns of 
their neighbours, and for that purpose, to seize 
upon their properties, and traduce their charac- 
ters, which in cases apparently parallel, would 
generally be considered a conspiracy. What it 
may be deemed in another place, I have yet to 
learn. 

The Edinburgh Review * has made a violent 
attack upon the planters, and maintains " that 
the slaves, if they cannot otherwise obtain 
emancipation, would be justified in rising up 
against their oppressors, and if needful, utterly 
destroying them." This is plain language, and 
worthy the worst times of the French Revolution, 
but as far as argument, or sound sense, it is not 

* 1 have heard that a pamphlet has been issued against 
the Planters, by a Mr. Cooper, but 1 have not seen it. 



42 

to be found in the article. Praise is only valu- 
able when it proceeds from a pure source. 
Abuse from the Edinburgh Review is honour- 
able, and even advantageous, for ic woe unto you 
when all men speak well of you." 

However, I trust we are not to be immolated at 
the altar of infidelity on the one hand ; nor sa- 
crificed to the wild schemes of speculative the- 
orists on the other *. 

The attack meditated against the West India 
Interests by the East India merchants and traders, 
endeavouring to remove the protecting duty, 
always given as a security to those interests ; has 
been ably exposed by Mr. Marryatt, and other 
gentlemen ; but I cannot refrain from observing, 
that it is a most illiberal attempt ; and shews an 
avidity to monopolize the only staple production 
of a suffering neighbour, that is truly uncharita- 
ble : and very unlike the high and generous 
feeling of honour, and the liberality of character, 
hitherto attributed, most justly, to the British 
merchant. 

* I sincerely thank John Bull for his friendly aid on 
Monday last, 29th April, in behalf of the Planters. And 
also his military correspondent, whose able and feeling letter 
deserves the most grateful thanks of the Planters. 



43 

There seems, in fact, to be a general combi- 
nation of men wholly ignorant of the real state 
of the Negroes, (but led away with the name of 
slavery,) and of circumstances, acting against the 
Planters at the present moment ; and I must say 
it is not in unison with the general good feeling 
of the British nation, to trample even upon a 
fallen enemy, much less upon a fallen brother, 
for the situation of the Planters has been so dis- 
tressing for the last few years, that if I may be 
allowed the expression, they have been living in a 
continual state of grasping at straws, to save them- 
selves from sinking into utter ruin. I have now, as a 
last resource, to implore the friendly aid of the gen- 
tlemen of England, (our Legislators) and beg them 
to extend the hand of friendship, by giving us their 
powerful assistance during the ensuing struggle 
in the House of Commons ; and I request them 
also as conservators of the National purse, to 
consider the enormous expence that would be 
thrown upon Great Britain by remunerating the 
West India Planters for the loss of their pro- 
perty, for without indemnity it is impossible to 
seize upon private property for any public pur- 
pose, without a breach of the most solemn and 
sacred rights. Remuneration for the whole pro- 
perty of the West India proprietors would 
amount to one hundred millions, and for the 



44 

slaves only, above thirty five millions : whether 
the country is prepared to come forward with that 
sum, I must leave to the decision of others ! 
But the right of protection, or remuneration 
cannot be doubted. 

The petitions to Parliament from various parts 
of the country, coming from persons who cannot 
have any sufficient knowledge of the situation of 
those for whom they petition, are really curious ; 
in fact, they must be led away merely by an ab- 
stract view of the subject, and by the hue and 
cry of slavery raised throughout the kingdom, 
by the Psuedo- Philanthropists. Under these cir- 
cumstances I shall recommend the Planters also 
to petition the House of Commoi s as follows : 

" That your petitioners have long viewed with 
great anxiety the suffering and oppressed state 
of various classes of his Majesty's subjects. The 
first which they shall bring under the notice of 
your Honourable House is, the stone masons em- 
ployed in sawing and working up the Derbyshire 
spar, for the minute particles of dust insinuate 
themselves into the lungs of these poor people 
and cause a lingering and premature death. The 
next they take leave to point out, is the pin-makers 
of Gloucester and other places ; the ruinous 

2 



45 

effects of which occupation are most apparent in the 
countenances of these suffering persons, owing to 
the filings of brass, &c. getting into the lungs, 
and causing the untimely death of hundreds. 
The next class to which they shall call the atten- 
tion of your Honourable House is a very nume- 
rous body of distressed beings, who are con- 
demned if not by force, yet by irresistible neces- 
sity, to spend their lives in the very bowels of the 
earth, in districts extending from the county of 
Durham, to Cornwall. These poor people are 
seldom blessed even with a sight of the cheering 
and healthful rays of the sun, but are condemned 
day after day, and year after year, to toil and 
linger out a wretched existence amidst filthy 
coals, and rugged ores ! 

" The chimney-sweepers they will pass over, 
as being immediately under the eye, of the mem- 
bers of your Honourable House : and they will 
close the miserable catalogue, by naming the 
last, though not least, class, the agricultural and 
daily labourers of all kinds. Really their case is 
almost too shocking to bring before your Ho- 
nourable House, conceiving it might torture the 
tender feelings of some of the more sensitive 
members of your Honourable House, which is 
well known to exist among them, however their 



46 

great modesty and humility may endeavour to 
conceal it : but not to keep your Honourable 
House in farther suspense as to the amount of 
misery to which this poor suffering- class is re- 
duced, its situation may well be compared to that 
of the negroes in the British West Indies ! this 
indeed is not to be borne,, more especially when 
these latter are in many respects much better off; 
for it does not require six or eight millions ster- 
ling of poor rates., raised upon the towns, 
villages, and houses, throughout the kingdom, to 
make the negroes comfortable and happy. 

" Finally — Your petitioners humbly pray that 
your Honourable House will appoint a Committee 
to inquire into the various miseries set forth in 
their petition, with a view to the speedy eman- 
cipation of these much injured and suffering 
classes. And with the farther view of convinc- 
ing the whole world, that unlimited happiness 
may be obtained on earth : and that it is a mere 
prejudice, founded in error and misrepresentation, 
(as has now been clearly proved by the philo- 
sophers and philanthropists of the present day,) 
to suppose that, the whole race of mankind lay 
under the following condemnation from the 
Almighty. — it Cursed be the ground for thy sake, 
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy 



47 

life. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat 
bread, till thou return to the ground ! !" 

" And your Petitioners will ever pray, &c." 

For the particulars of the present situation of 
West India affairs, I refer my reader to the Ap- 
pendix. 

I fear I have already trespassed too long 
upon the patience of my reader, and will make 
but one more reference to " the Appeal" (page 
76), where Mr. Wilberforce says, " he can but 
too surely anticipate from experience, that the 
grossest and most unfounded calumnies will be 
profusely poured out against him." I hope he 
will not consider any part of this Counter Appeal 
to be of that description, which I should much 
regret, because he has been induced to come 
forward "from a conviction of its being his posi- 
tive duty.'" But yet I must beg leave to repeat 
that good motives cannot justify any attempt 
to obtain a good end, through bad means ; whe- 
ther the objects of controversy between the Ap- 
peal, and the Counter Appeal be, or be not, of 
this description, their readers must decide : but I 
will give this warning of St. Peter to our adver- 
saries, " Let none of you suffer as a busy body in 
other men's matters" 



48 

Finally, I must solemnly implore our legisla- 
tors, individually and collectively, before they are 
called upon to vote away the property of their 
fellow-subjects, the Planters, to consider deeply 
ere they adopt the dangerous principle of set- 
ting might against right: for the British legis- 
lature can with no more justice emancipate the 
Negroes against the consent of the Planters, 
(without giving them the most ample compensa- 
tion,) than they can seize their property in the 
public funds, or their estates in England. It 
cannot do either without committing a most 
flagrant breach of national honour, and destroy- 
ing that fundamental principle of the British con- 
stitution, which secures to every man his pro- 
perty. 

The legislature has the power, and has consti- 
tutionally exerted it, of preventing the future in- 
troduction of slaves into the colonies, by the 
abolition of that trade with Africa, but it cannot 
take away, or (which is the same thing) eman- 
cipate those Negroes which the planters do pos- 
sess, without satisfactory remuneration ; for both 
the slaves and the estates have been purchased by 
the planters, or their ancestors, under the conti- 
nued encouragement and sacred protection (for 
150 years) of the British parliament and nation. 



49 

Once more, I pray our legislators not to allow 
the agitation of a question so dangerous as that 
of emancipation, but to recollect the horrors 
which took place., under parallel circumstances, in 
Grenada, St. Domingo, Cayenne, and Barbadoes, 
and to crush the attempt in the bud : for qua- 
druple the military force that is now in the West 
India Islands, would not secure them against 
the dangerous consequences of an insurrection 
amongst the Negroes. In the name of justice, 
therefore, let a large force be immediately sent 
out before any such dangerous question agitates 
the minds of the Negroes ; or, still better, let the 
measure be quashed by an overwhelming majo- 
rity, and let emancipation in the West Indies be 
allowed to work its own course, (as took place in 
England,) by the slow but sure hand of time *. 



* I will conclude with this quotation from the Pursuits of 
Literature : 

" I speak to all who can rescue us from the cold unfeel- 
ing tyranny of modern metaphysics, as exhibited by the new 
philosophers, and from nonsense which must at last be 
found impracticable, when every estate and condition of man 
has been overthrown for their pleasure and experiment ,*' 



Upper Harley Street, 
28* A April, 1823. 



APPENDIX. 



Before I conclude, I must take this occasion to 
point out to those unacquainted with West India 
affairs, the difficulties under which the planters 
labour at present. 

When Mr. Pitt raised the duty upon sugar 
from 17s. 6d. to 20s. per Cvvt. he said, " that he 
considered this addition as the utmost bounds to 
which it could be carried, and that the Planter 
would suffer but little while he had the command 
of the foreign market." The duty has since 
been raised at different times, till it has reached 
27s. with a power vested in government, to add 
Is. when the average price of sugar (exclusive of 
the duty) reached 48s. ; 2s. when it got to 49s. 
and 3s. when it arrived at 50s. ; and so it stands 
at the present moment; although the average 
price of sugar was last year frequently below 
28s. ; and this when the planter had no controul 
whatever over the foreign market. 

Under these circumstances, a Planter having 
property in one of the old Leeward Islands, has 
to pay four and a half per cent on shipping his 
sugar, (which duty was voluntarily voted to the 
British Government in the seventeenth century 



51 

by the Island of Barbadoes, Antigua, St. Kitt's, 
Montserrat, Nevis, and Tortola, as a return of 
gratitude for the protection afforded by the 
mother country, and for the maintenance and 
repairs of the fortifications) he has to pay in 
addition 27s. per Cwt. on landing his sugar in 
England, (both of which sums go directly into the 
National purse) and out of the small portion left, 
the Planter must pay the freight, insurance, mer- 
chant's charges, and the nett income for the 
Planter may well be supposed small, when Go- 
vernment alone takes more than one half. 
Many instances have come to my knowledge 
where the Planter instead of receiving, paid 
large sums, from other resources, last year, to 
support his Negroes, and to supply his estates. 

The price of Leeward Island rum last year 
was so low as Is. 2d. per gallon, exclusive of the 
duty, which is lis. 3d. per gallon, or nearly as 
ten to one more than the value of the article to 
the owner, an example of taxation, I believe not 
to be equalled. 

The depreciation of rum is severely felt in the 
West Indies, as it may be called the current 
coin of the Island^ and, as such, is received by 
the resident merchants ; but from the extraordi- 
nary fall in value, and the enormous duty, the 

5 



52 

merchants will now seldom take it on any terms : 
especially as the United States of America have 
laid so heavy a duty on the importation of British 
rum (I suppose in imitation of the example here) 
that it amounts nearly to a prohibition; and con- 
sequently the hopes which had been entertained 
of getting better prices, and a ready market for 
the rum, by the measure of opening the port to 
the Americans, have been utterly disappointed, 
by its being conceded too late : for the Ameri- 
cans have got into other connections, and found 
out other sources for supplying themselves with 
colonial produce. I hope the Government will 
act with a liberal policy toward the South Ame- 
rican Colonists, by giving every support and en- 
couragement, to a free and reciprocal trade be- 
tween them and our Islands. But without a 
considerable reduction in the duties upon sugar 
and rum, or some tantamount advantage, I do 
not foresee how the prosperity of the West Indies 
can be preserved : and I need not add after what 
I have stated, as to the assistance it furnishes 
directly to the Revenue, and to the country at 
large, (independent of a thousand indirect, and 
collateral aids) that Great Britain must largely 
partake in all the misfortunes of the West India 
Colonies. 



Printed by R. Gilbert, St. John's.square, London. 



