Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/caseofourfellowcOObene 



THE 




A S E 



OF OUR 

FELLOW-CREATURES, 

THE 

Opprejfed Africans^ 

RESPECTFULLY RECOMMENDED TO 

THE SERIOUS CONSIDERATION 

OF THE 

LEGISLATURE 

O F 

gre'at-britAin, 

By the PEOPLE called QUAKERS. 



LONDON, Printed: 
PHILADELPHIA: 

RE-PRINTED BY JOSEPH CRUKSHANW IN MARKET-STREET, 
TWEEN SECONP ANn THTRD-STREETS. 



»« t i< »u ' « ■ mt 



M DCC LXXXIV 



\^%C 






* G^^3 XM ®® ®® ** Q**r2 x 

f g^^a ** W w SK^faMe? 



r//2? following petition was prefented to 
the Parliament of Great- Britain, by a de- 
putation from the yearly-meeting of our bre- 
thren in that nation, held in London in the 6th 
month, 1783; and the reprefentation hereto 
fubjoined, has fince been delivered to the King 
and his miniflers, the members of parliament y 
and others in authority there. 

The like benevolent motives which acluated 
our brethren in that kingdom, thus publicly to 
advocate the cauje of the mofi oppreffed part of 
the human /pedes, induced our yearly-meeting 
held in Philadelphia lajl year, to addrefs the 
Congrefs of thefe American fates, on the fame 
very int ere fling and important Jubj eel, which be- 
ing courteoufly received, we are encouraged to 
republifh the above mentioned petition and repre- 
fentation, in hope the minds of thoje who are in- 
vefied with power here, may become fo effeclually 
moved by a Jenfe of the enormity of the evil 
complained of, as to exert their authority to re- 
move it, that the cry of this oppreffion may not 
he continued in our land. 

Signed in and by order of the meeting 
for fufferings, in Philadelphia, 16th 
of the 9th month, 1784. 

JOHN DRINKER, Clerk. 






THE 



A S 



OF THE 



OPPRESSED AFRICANS 



WE are engaged, under a fenfe of duty, to 
bear a public teftimony againft a fpecies of 
oppreflion which, under the fan&ion of national au- 
thority, has long been exercifed upon the natives of 
Africa, is grown up into a fyftem of tyranny, and 
is unhappily become a considerable branch of th# 
commerce of this kingdom : an oppreflion which in 
the injuftice of its origin, and the inhumanity of its 
progrefs, has not, we apprehend, been exceeded, 
or even equalled, in the mod barbarous ages. 

We are taught, both by the holy fcriptures, and 
by the experience of ages, to believe that the Righ- 
teous Judge of the whole earth chaftifeth nations 
for their fins, as well as individuals : and can it be 
expected that he will fulfer this great iniquity to go 

unpunifhed ? 



( 8 ) 

unpunilhed ? As the defign of the inftitution of go* 
vernmenc is for a terror to evil-doers, and the praife 
of them that do well, we wifh it may be ferioufly 
confidered, whether this has been made the rule of 
its adminiftration in this land. Will it not rather be 
found on inquiry, that, with refpect to the enflaved 
negroes, its benevolent purpofes have been pervert- 
ed ; that its terrors have fallen on the innocent, 
while evil doers, and oppreffors, have been openly 
encouraged ? 

But notwithftanding government, in former 
times, have been induced by what we conceive to 
be a miftaken, as well as an unjuft, policy, to pro- 
mote this evil, we £re perfuaded that many of the 
prefent members of the legiflature, as true friends 
of civil and religious liberty, hold this unrighteous 
tranc in the utmoft abhorrence. This perfuafion, 
joined to the favourable reception of the petition of 
cur lad Yearly-meeting to the Houfe of Commons,, 
encourages us to addrefs you, thus freely, on this 
important fubjecl ; and we apprehend that the abo- 
lition of this iniquitous practice is not only required 
by the calLs of juftice and humanity, but is alfo con- 
fident with found policy. For avarice in this, as in 
other inftances, has defeated its own purpofe. Afri- 
ca, fo populous, and fo rich in vegetable and mi- 
neral productions, inftead of affording all the advan- 
tages of a well regulated commerce, is fcarcely 
known but as a mart for Haves, and as the fcene of 
violence and barbarities, perpetrated, in order to 
procure them, by men profefling the Chriftian re- 
ligion. 

The arguments which have been advanced by the 
few writers, who have attempted to juftify this in- 
human bufinefs, can have no weight with generous 
minds. Thofe, in particular, which are drawn from 
the permiffion to hold ilaves amongft the Jews, can 
in no wife be applied to the practice amongft us : 
for, bleffed be the God and Father of all our mer- 
cies. 



(9 

cies, * who hath made of one blood all nations of 
men, we now live under a difpenfation effsntially 
different from that of the law ; in which many- 
things were permitted to the jews, becaufe of the 
hardnefs of their hearts. All diftincYions of name 
and country, fo far as they relate to the focial du- 
ties, are now abolifhed. We are taught by our 
bleffed Redeemer to Look upon all men, even our 
enemies, as neighbours and brethren, and to do 
unto them as we would they fhould do unto us* 

Under a difpenfation fo admirably adapted to pro- 
mote 'the temporal as well as the eternal happinefs 
of mankind, that any fhould deviate fo far from its 
principles, as to encourage a practice fo replete 
with iniquity, and in particular that this nation, ge- 
nerally characterized by its attachment to civil and 
religious liberty, mould have contributed, perhaps 
more than any other, to the eftabliihment and con- 
tinuance of flavery, is a moll painful reflection. It 
would furely have been more confident with the 
avowed principles of Englifhmen, both as men and 
as Chriftians, if their fettlement in heathen countries 
had been fucceeded by mild and benevolent at- 
tempts to civilize their inhabitants, and to incline 
them to ' receive the glad tidings of the gofpel. 
But how different a conduct towards them has been 
purfued ! it has not only been repugnant in a poli- 
tical view, to thofe commercial advantages which a 
fair and honourable treatment might have procured, 
but has evidently tended to increaie the barbarity of 
their manners, and to excite in their minds an aver- 
fion to that religion, 'the profeffors whereof fo cru- 
elly treat them. 

This traffic is the principal fource of the deftruc- 
tive wars which prevail among thefe unhappy peo- 
ple, and it is attended with confequences, the mere 
recital of which is fhocking to humanity. The vi- 
olent feparation of the dearefl relatives, the tears of 

B conjugal 

Afts xvii. z6. 



( io ) 

conjugal and parental affection, the reluctance of 
the flaves to a voyage from which they can have no 
profpect of returning, mud prefent fcenes of diftrefs 
which would pierce the heart of any, in whom the 
principles of humanity are not wholly effaced. This, 
however, is but the beginning of forrows with the 
poor captives. Under their cruel treatment on fhip- 
board* where, without regard to health or decency, 
hundreds are confined within the narrow limits of 
the hold, numbers perifh ; and, by what is called 
the feafoning in the Iflands, many are relieved by a 
premature -death* from that feries of accumulated 
iufferings which awaits their lefs happy furvivors. 
The meafure of their afflictions yet remains to be 
filled ; being fold to the higheft bidder, and brand- 
ed with a hot iron, they have yet to linger on, un- 
pitied, the whole term of their miferable exiftence, 
in excefiive labour, and too often under the merci- 
lefs controul of unprincipled and unfeeling men, 
without proper food or cloathing, or any enco 
ragemtnt to fweeten their toil ; whilft every fault, 
real, or imaginary, is punifhed with a rigour which 
is but weakly reftrained by the colony laws: inilan- 
ces of the greateil enormity, even the rnofl wanton 
or deliberate murder of the flaves, being only pu- 
nifhed, if punifhed at all, by' trifling pecuniary 
fines. 

But a bare enumeration of the ca\?rrv.ties of this 
wretched people, -would exceed the limits propoled 
to this iliort addrefs : we think it not improper, 
however, to give the following extract from a late 
author, who was an eye-witneis of the miferies of 
this perfecuted race. 

If we bring this matter home, and, as Job 

propofed to his friends, " put our foul in their 
44 fouls fread ;" if we confider ourfelves, and our 
" children, as expofed to the hardfnips which thefe 
" people lie under, in fupporting an imaginary 
u ■greatnefe ; 

" Did 



ce 



cc 

cc 

cc 

cc 



cc 

cc 
cc 

cc 

cc 



( « ) 

"Did we, in fuch cafe, behold an increafe of 
luxury and fuperfluity among our oppreffors, and 
therewith feel an increafe of the weight of our 
burdens, and expect our pofterity to groan under 
oppreffion after us ; 

" Under all this mifery, had we none to plead 
our caufe, nor any hope of relief from man, how 
would our cries afcend to the God of the fpirits 
" of all flefh, who judgeth the world in righteouf- 
" nefs, and, in his own time, is a refuge for the 
opprefTed ! 

When we were hunger-bitten, and could not 
" have fufficient naurifhment, but faw them in ful- 
nefs, pleafmg their tatie with things fetched from 
far ; 

When we were wearied with labour, denied 
the liberty to reft, and faw thern fpending their 
time at eafe ; when garments, anfwerable to our 
" neceffities, were denied us, while we law them 
"cloathed in that which was coiliy and delt- 
" cate ; 

" Under fuch affliction, how would thefe painful 
" feelings rife up as witnefles againfl their pretended 
" devotion ! And if the name of their religion 
" were mentioned in our hearing, how would it 
" found in our ears, like a word which fignifled 
" felf-exaltation and hardnefs of heart ! 

When a trade is carried on productive of much 
mifery, and they who fuffer by it are fome thou- 
fands miles off, the danger is the greater of not 
laying their fufferings to heart. 

In procuring flaves from the coaft of Africa, 
many children are ftolen privately ; wars alio 
are encouraged among the negroes : but all is 
at a great diftance. Many groans arife from dy- 
" ing men, which we hear not. Many cries are 
" uttered by widows and fatherlefs children, which 
64 reach not our ears. Many cheeks are wet with 
" tears, and faces fad with unutterable grief, which 
" we fee not. Cruel tyranny is encouraged. The 

" hands 



cc 
cc 
cc 

cc 

cc 
cc 
cc 



(C 



( « ) 

* c hands of robbers are flrengthened ; and thou* 
" fands reduced to the moil abject flavery, who 
* c never injured us. 

" Were we, for the term of one year only, to be 
c * eye-witneffes to what pafleth in getting thefa 
fi< flavps ; was the blood which is there fned, to 
cc be iprinkled on our garments ; were the poor 
; captives, bound with thongs, heavy laden with 
elephants teeth, to pafs before our eyes, in their 
way to the fea ; 

Were their bitter lamentations, day after day, 
ic to ring in our ears, and their mournful cries in 
" the night, to hinder us from ileeping ! 

" Were we to hear the found of the tumult, 
when the flaves on board the mips attempt to kill 
the Englifli, and behold the i flue of thofe bloody 
conflicts : what pious man could be a witnefs to 
" thefe things, and fee a trade carried on in this 
" manner, without being deeply affected with for- 
* row?' 5 ' 

Our religious fociety in thefe kingdoms, and in 
North America, have for many years tenderly fym« 
pathized with this unhappy people, under their com- 
plicated fufferings, and have endeavoured to pro- 
cure them relief: nor has their caufe been without 
other advocates; whofe numbers we have with much 
fatisfaetion obferved to increafe. The expectation 
of many, who are ansiouily concerned for the fup- 
preflion of this national evil, is now under Provi- 
dence, fixed upon the wife and humane interpositi- 
on of the legiilature ; to whom, with dutiful fub- 
million, we earneftly recommend the ferious con- 
sideration of this important fubject ; with a pleafing 
hope, that the refult will be, a prohibition of this 
traffic in future, and an extenfion of fuch relief to 
thofe who already groan in bondage, as juftice and 
mercy may dictate, and their particular fituations 
may admit. That fo the bleflings of thofe who are 
ready to perifh may reft upon you, and this nation 
may no longer, on their account, remain obnoxious 

to 



( *3 ) 

to the righteous judgments of the Lord, who, in 
the moil awful manner, declared by his prophet, 
" That the land mould tremble, * and every one 
" mourn that dwelleth therein, for the iniquity of 
" thofe who opprefs the poor, and crum the nee- 
" dy;" and who likewife pronounced a " woef 
" unto him, that buildeth his houfe by unrighteouf- 
<c nefs, and his chambers by wrong ; that ufeth 
" his neighbour's fervice without wages, and giv- 
*< eth him not for his work." 

Signed by order of the Meeting for Sufferings, J 
London, the 2tith day of the eleventh month, 
1783, by 

JOHN A D Y, 

Clerk to the Meeting. 



* Amos iv and viii. chap, f Jeremiah xxii. chap. 



$ This meeting is compofed of about one hundred members re- 
lading in London, who are chofen by, and correfpond with, the 
meetings in the country. It was inftituted, and thus named, du- 
ring the times of perfecution, (anno 1675) in order to receive ac- 
counts of the fufferings, of our members, and to folicit relief from 
thofe in power. It ftill continues to fuperintend the general con- 
cerns of the fociety during the intervals of the Yearly-meeting, 



N I 



B O O K S to be fold by 
Joseph Crukshank. 

TH E Original, and Prefent State of Man, 
briefly confidered ; wherein is fhewn, the 
nature of his fall, and the neceflity, means, and 
manner of his reftoration, thro' the facrifice of 
Chrift, and the fenfible operation of that divine 
principle held forth to the world by the people 
called Quakers. 

Some account of the life, and gofpel labours of 
William Reckett, late of Lincolnfhire in Great- 
Britain : alfo, memoirs of the life, religious ex- 
periences, and gofpel labours of James Gough, 
late of Dublin, deceafed. 

An account of the life of that ancient fervant of 
Jems Chrift, John Richardfon, giving a relation 
of many of his exercifes in his youth, and his 
fervices in the work of the miniftry, in England, 
Ireland, America, &c. 

The Chrift ian, a poem, in four books. To which is 
prefixed a preface in profe, in defence of Chrifti- 
anity ; with an addrefs to the people of Ameri- 
ca. To which is added, mifcellaneous poems. 
By Charles Crawford. 

Buchan's family phyfician : or, a treatife on the 
prevention and cure of difeafes by regimen and 
fimple medicine, a late edition, with an appendix 
containing the method of preparing and com- 
pounding fuch medicines as are recommended in 
the book, with addition of feveral others of a fi- 
milar nature ; remarks on the dofes, ufes, and 
manner of applying the different preparations. 

Capt. Carver's three years travels, through the in- 
terior parts of North- America, for more than five 

thouiand 



Books to be fold by Joseph Crukshank. 

thoufand miles, containing an account of the 
great lakes, and all the lakes, iflands, and rivers, 
cataracts, mountains, minerals, foil and vegetable 
productions of the north-weft regions of that vaft 
continent ; with a defcription of the birds, beads, 
reptiles, infects, and fifties, peculiar to the coun- 
try. Together with a concile hiftory of the ge- 
nius, manners and cuftoms of the Indians inha- 
biting the lands that lie adjacent to the heads, 
and to the weft ward of the great river Miffiftippi; 
and an appendix defcribing the uncultivated parts 
of America, that are moil proper for forming fet- 
tlements. 

Sacred hiftory : or, the hiftorical part of the holy 
fcriptures of the old and new teftaments ; digest- 
ed into due method, with refpect to order of time 
and place, with obfervations tending to illuftrate 
fome paffages therein. By Thomas Ellwood, 3 
vols. 

A journal" of the life, travels, fufFerings, Chriftian 
experiences, and labour of love in the work of 
the miniftry of George Fox. 

Select works of William Penn, in ,5 vols, octavo. 

An eflay on the treatment and converfion of African 
flaves. By James Ramfey, M. A. vicar of Te- 
flon, in Kent. 

Fruits of retirement : or, miscellaneous poems, mo- 
ral and divine. By Mary Mollineux. 

Grounds of a holy life. By Hugh Turford. 

Some principles and precepts of the Chriftian religi- 
on, by way of queftion and anfwer. By Samuel 
Fuller. 

Memoirs 



Books to he fold by Joseph Cr(/£shank. 

Memoirs of the life of John Roberts, alias Hayward. 

Primitive Chriftianity revived, in the faith and prac- 
tice of the people called Quakers. Written in 
teftimony to the prefent difpenfation of God 
through them to the world. By William Penn. 
To which is added, felecl pieces on religious fub- 
jecls. By Ifaac Penington. 

Select poems, containing epiftles, Sec. occafionally 
written on various fubje&s. To which is now 
added, the hiftory of Elijah and Elifha. By 
John Fry. 

The advantages and difadvantages of the marriage- 
ftate, as entered into with religious or irreligious 
perfons* 

An epiftle to friends, concerning the prefent and fuc- 
ceeding times. By Stephen Crifp. 

Seven difcourfes and three prayers, and an epiftle to 
his brethren in religious profeflion in the ifland of 
Tortola. By Samuel Fothergill. 

STATIONARY. 

Imperial, fuper-royal, royal, medium, demy, and 
foolfcap writing-paper ; medium, demy, and foolf r 
cap day-books, journals, and ledgers ; counting- 
houfe files ; Irilh and common wafers ; Dutch and 
Englifh fealing-wax; Dutch and Englifh quills, from 
3/* to i Sf per hundred; ivory folders ; ink-powder 
and ink-cake; pewter and japaned.ink-ftands ; a 
variety of leather and paper ink holders for the pock- 
et ; aiTes fkin memorandum books ; copperplate 
copies; black fan d ; neat Dates ; flate pencils ; Hid* 
ing and common black lead pencils, of a good qua- 
lity ; blank bonds ; arbitration do. powers of attor- 
ney ; bills of lading ; apprentice and fervant's in- 
dentures ; conveyances for land warrants ; blank 
declarations for attornies at law, &c. &c. Sec. 



TO THE 



Commons of GREAT-BRITAIN, In 

Parliament a\ 



The PETITION of the People called 
QJJ AKERS, 

Sheweth, 

TP HAT your petitioners met in this their 
X annual affembly, having folemnly con- 
sidered the ftate of the enflaved Negroes, con- 
ceive themfelves engaged in religiousduty to lay 
the fuffering fituation of that unhappy people be- 
fore you, as a fubjecl loudly calling for the hu- 
mane interpoiition of the Legiflature. Your pe- 
titioners regret, that a nation profeffing the Chri- 
ftian faith, mould fo far counteract the principles 
of humanity and juftice, as by cruel treatment of 
this oppreffed race, to fill their minds with pre- 
judices againft the mild and beneficent doclrines 
of the Gofpel. 

" Under the countenance of the laws of this 
country, many thoufands of thefe our fellow crea- 
tures, entitled to the natural rights of mankind, 
are held as perfonal property in cruel bondage ; 
and your petitioners being informed that a bill 
for the regulation of the African trade, is now be- 
fore the Houfe, containing a claufe which re- 
flrains the officers of the African Company from 
exporting Negroes : your petitioners, deeply af- 
fected with a eonfidoration of the rapine, oppreffi- 
on, and bloodfhed, attending this traffic, humbly 
requeft, that this reftriclion may be extended to 
all perfons whatfoever, or that the Houfe would 
grant fuch other relief in the premifes, as in its 
wifdom may feem meet." 

Signed in and on behalf of cur yearly-meeting, 
held in London, the \6th day of the fixtl- 
month, 1783. 



