THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



NOVEMBER, 1833. 



[NO. XL 



MISS CRANDALL'S SECOND TRIAL. 

The Unionist of Oct. 10, gives an account 
of this interesting trial. 

f Last Thursday Miss Crandall was brought 
before the Superior Court sitting in this place, 
(Judge Daggett on the bench,) upon an infor- 
mation similar to that on which she was tried 
at the last session of the County Court. She 
had been bound over to answer to two com- 
plaints, one for teaching, and the other for 
boarding colored persons from other states, but 
was tried on the former only. A. T. Judson, 
Esq. and C. F. Cleaveland the State's Attor- 
ney conducted the prosecution; Henry Strong 
Esq. and Hon. Calvin Goddard, the defence. 
The plea as on the former trial was Not Guil- 
ty. Several witnesses were examined, the 
facts necessary to conviction were proved, and 
nothing remained but to establish the consti- 
tutionality of the law. 

Mr. Judson opened the case for the prosecu- 
tion, and pursued much the same train of argu- 
ment as on the former trial, except that in ad- 
dition to the points then made, he contended 
that the clause in the constitution Avhich was 
made the ground of the defence, was intended 
as a rule of action to the general government 
only, and not to the state Legislatures. He 
was followed by Mr. Strong, who, in a pow- 
erful, logical and conclusive argument, clearly 
exhibited the unconstitutionality of the law, 
showing that the Constitution was made to 
control the action of the state Legislatures ; 
that it was intended to secure to all citizens 
of the United States, the enjoyment of such 
privileges and immunities as are fundamental ; 
that the privilege of obtaining an education is 
fundamental ; and that free blacks are citizens, 
and of course entitled, though citizens of oth- 
er states, to the same privileges as our own 
colored population, and among others to that 
of acquiring knowledge here. Mr. Goddard 
closed for the defence, briefly but eloquently, 
and the State's Attorney having concluded on 
the part o f the prosecution, the judge rose 
and saying a few words respecting the impor- 
tance of the question, and his inability to do 
it justice, declined giving his charge till the 
next morning. 

On Friday morning, as soon as the court 
was opened, every seat was occupied, and 
many persons stood, unable to obtain seats, all 
listening with profound attention to the charge. 

VOL. I. 



It occupied, as nearly as we could estimate, 
about an hour, and, as will be seen by the out- 
line given below, was decidedly in favor of the 
constitutionality of the law.' 

The Unionist then gives a sketch of Judge 
Daggett's charge. But as the Windham Coun- 
ty Advertiser presents a more full account of it, 
apparently revised by the Judge, we copy the 
report of it from that paper, or rather from 
another paper in which it is credited to the 
Advertiser. 

' This is an information filed by the Attor- 
ney for the State, for the alleged violation of 
a statute law, passed by the General Assem- 
bly, at their last session, relating to inhabitants ; 
the preamble to the act, embracing the rea- 
sons for the law. It reads thus : 

' Whereas attempts have been made to es- 
tablish literary institutions in this State, for 
the instruction of colored persons belonging 
to other States and countries, which would 
tend to the great increase of the colored pop- 
ulation of the State, and thereby to the injury 
of the people ; Therefore it is enacted that no 
person shall set up or establish, in this State, 
any school, academy, or literary institution, for 
the instruction or education of colored persons 
who are not inhabitants of this State, nor in- 
struct or teach in any school, academy, or lit- 
erary institution, or harbor or board, for the 
purpose of attending or being taught or in- 
structed in any such school, any colored per- 
son not an inhabitant of any town in this 
State, without the consent, in writing, first 
obtained of a majority of the civil authority 
and select men of the town where such school 
is situated, on penalty,' &c. 

It is alleged in this information, that since 
the 22d day of August last, to wit, on the 24th 
day of September, 1833, the defendant has 
wilfully and knowingly, harbored and boarded 
colored persons not inhabitants of the State 
for the purpose mentioned in said act, without 
having obtained in writing, the consent of the 
civil authority and select men of the town of 
Canterbury, where the school has been set up. 
As to the facts in this case, there seems to be 
but little controversy. It has scarcely been 
denied, that colored persons have been harbor- 
ed and boarded by the defendant for the ob- 
jects alleged, within the time set forth in this 
information. You, Geatlemen of the Jury, 
21 






162 



Miss CrandaWs Second Trial. 



have heard the evidence, and as it is your ex- 
clusive business to pass upon these facts, you 
will say whether or not they are true. 

If these facts are not proved to your satis- 
faction, then you may dismiss the case, for in 
that event you have no further duty to perform. 
If, however, you find the facts true, then anoth- 
er duty, equally important, devolves upon the 
jury. It is an undeniable proposition, that the 
jury are judges of both law and fact, in all 
cases of this nature. It is, however, equally 
true, that the court is to state its opinion to 
the jury, upon all questions of law, arising in 
the trial of a criminal cause, and to submit to 
their consideration, both law and fact, without 
any direction how to find their verdict 

The counsel for the defendant have rested 
her defence upon a provision of the constitu- 
tion of the United States, claiming that the 
statute law of this State, upon which this in- 
formation is founded, is inconsistent with that 
provision, and therefore void. This is the 
great question involved in this case, and it is 
about to be submitted to your consideration. 

It is admitted that there are no provisions 
in the constitution of this State which conflict 
with this act. It may be remarked here that 
the constitution of the United States is above 
all other law, — it is emphatically the supreme 
law of the land, and the Judges are so to de- 
clare it. From the highest court to the low- 
est, even that of a justice of the peace, all 
laws, whether made by Congress or State 
Legislatures, are subject to examination, and 
when brought to the test of the constitution, 
may be declared utterly void. But in order 
to do this, the court should first find the law 
contrary, and plainly contrary to the constitu- 
tion. Although this may be done, and done 
too by the humblest court, yet it never should 
be done but upon a full conviction that the 
law in question is unconstitutional. 

Many things said upon this trial, may be 
laid out of the case. The consideration of 
Slavery, with all its evils and degrading con- 
sequences, may be dismissed, with the consid- 
eration that it is a degrading evil. The bene- 
fits, blessings and advantages of instruction 
and education, may also cease to claim your 
attention, except you may well" consider that 
education is a 'fundamental privilege,' for this 
is the basis of all free governments. 

Having read this law, the question comes 
to us with peculiar force, does it clearly violate 
the Constitution of the United States ?— The 
section claimed to have been violated, reads 
as follows, to wit: ' Art. 4 — Sec. 2. — The citi- 
zens of each State, shall be entitled to all 
privileges and immunities of citizens in the 
several States.' ,It has been urged that this 
section was mad^ to direct, exclusively, the 
action of the General Government, and there- 
fore can never be applied to State laws. This 
is not the opinion of the court. The plain and 
obvious meaning of this provision, is, to secure 



to the citizens of all the States, the same privi- 
leges as are secured to our own, by our own 
State laws. Should a citizen of Connecticut 
purchase a farm in Massachusetts, and the 
Legislature of Massachusetts tax the owner 
of that farm, four times as much as they would 
tax a citizen of Massachusetts, because the 
one resided in Connecticut and the other in 
Massachusetts ; or should a law be passed by 
either of those States, that no citizen of the 
other, should reside or trade in that other, this 
would undoubtedly be an unconstitutional law, 
and should be so declared. 

The 2d section was provided as a substitute 
for the 4th article of the Confederation. That 
article has also been read, and by comparing 
them, you can perceive the object intended by 
the substitute. 

The act in question, provides that colored 
persons who are not inhabitants of this State, 
shall not be harbored and boarded, for the pur- 
poses therein mentioned, within this State, 
without the consent of the civil authority and 
selectmen of the town. We are then brought 
to the great question, are they citizens within 
the provisions of this section of the Constitu- 
tion ? The law extends to all persons of 
color not inhabitants of this State, whether 
they live in the State of New- York, or in the 
West Indies, or any other foreign country. 

In deciding this question, I am very happy 
that my opinion can be revised by the Supreme 
Court of this State, and of the United States^ 
should you return a verdict against the de- 
fendant. 

The persons contemplated in this act are 
not citizens within the obvious meaning of that 
section of the Constitution of the United 
States, which I have just read. Let me begin 
by putting (his plain question: Are slaves 
citizens ? At the adoption of the Constitution 
of the United States, every State was a slave 
state. Massachusetts had begun the work of 
emancipation within her own borders. And 
Connecticut, as early as 1784, had also enact- 
ed laws making all those free at the age of 
25, who might be born within the state, after 
that time. We all know that slavery is re- 
cognized in the Constitution, and it is the duty 
of this court to take that Constitution as it is, 
for we have sworn to support it. Although the 
term ' slavery ' cannot be found written out in 
the Constitution, yet no one can mistake the 
object of the 3d sec. of the 4th article : — 'No. 
person held to service or labor in one state, 
under the laws thereof, escaping into another, 
shall in consequence of any law or regulation 
therein, be discharged from such service or 
labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of 
the party to whom such service or labor may 
be due.' 

The 2d section of the 1st article, reads as 
follows : — ' Representatives and direct taxes 
shall be apportioned among the several states 
which may be included in this Union, accord- 



Miaa CrandaWs Second 1\lah 



iflg to their respective numbers, which shall 
be determined by adding to the whole number 
of free persons, including- those bound to ser- 
vice for a term of years, and excluding Indians 
not taxed, three fifths of all other persons.'' 
The ' other persons ' are slaves, and they be- 
came the basis of representation, by adding 
them to the white population in that propor- 
tion. Then slaves were not considered citi- 
zens by the framers of the Constitution. 

A citizen means a. freeman. By referring 
to Dr. Webster, one of the most learned men 
of this or any other country, we have the fol- 
lowing definition of the term — ' Citizen : 1st, 
a native of a city, or an inhabitant who enjoys 
the freedom and privileges of the city in which 
he resides. 2, A townsman, a man of trade, 
not a gentleman, 3. An inhabitant; a dweller 
in any city, town or country. 4. In the United 
States, it means a person native or naturalized, 
who has the privilege of exercising the elec- 
tive franchise, and of purchasing and holding- 
real estate.' 

Are Indians citizens ? It is admitted in the 
argument that they are not, but it is said they 
belong to distinct tribes. This cannot be 
true, because all Indians do not belong to a 
tribe. It may be now added, that by the de- 
clared law of New- York, Indians are not citi- 
zens, and the learned Chancellor Kent says, 
' they never can be made citizens.' Indians 
were literally natives of our soil, — they were i 
born here, and yet they are not citizens. 

The Mohegans were once a mighty tribe, 
powerful and valiant ; and who among us ever 
saw one of them performing military duty, or 
exercising, with the white men, the privilege 
of the elective franchise, or holding an office ? 
And what is the reason ? I answer, they are 
not citizens, according to the acceptation of 
the term in the United States. 

Are free blacks, citizens ? It has been in- 
geniously said, that vessels may be owned 
and navigated by free blacks, and the Ameri- 
can flag will protect them ; bnt you will re- 
member that the statute which makes that 
.provision, is an act of Congress, and not the 
Constitution. Admit, if you please, that Mr., 
Cuffee, a respectable merchant, has owned 
vessels, and sailed thern under the American 
flag, yet this does not prove him to he such a 
citizen as the Constitution contemplates. But 
that question stands undecided by any legal 
tribunal within my knowlege. For the pur- 
poses of this case, it may not be necessary to 
determine that question. 

It has been also urged, that as colored per- 
sons may commit treason, they must be con- 
sidered citizens. Every person born in the 
United States, as well as every person who 
may reside here, owes allegiance of some sort 
to the government, because the government 
affords him protection. Treason against this 
government, consists in levying war against 
the government of the United States, or aid- 



ing its enemy in time of war. Treason may 
be committed by. persons whp arc not entitled 
to the elective lVunclii.se. For if they reside 
under the protection of the government, it 
would be treason to levy war against that gov- 
ernment, as much as if they were citizens. 

I think Chancellor Kent, whose authority it 
gives ine pleasure to quote, determines this 
question by fair implication. Had this author 
considered free blacks citizens, he had an am- 
ple opportunity to say so. But what lie has 
said, excludes that idea. 

Kent's Commentaries, vol. 2d, p. 258 — 'In 
most of the United States, there is a distinc- 
tion in respect to political privileges, between 
free white persons and free colored persons 
of African blood ; and in no part of the coun- 
try do the latter, in point of fact, participate 
equally with the whites, in the exercise of 
civil and political rights. The African race 
are essentially a degraded caste, of inferior 
rank and condition in society. Marriages are 
forbidden between them and whites in some 
of the States, and when not absolutely con- 
trary to law, they are revolting, and regarded 
as an offence against public decorum. By the 
revised Statutes of Illinois, published in 1829, 
marriages between whites arid negroes or 
nmlattoes, are declared void, and the persons 
so married are liable to be whipped, fined and 
imprisoned. By an old Statute of Massachu- 
setts, of 1705, such marriages were declared 
void, and are so still. A similar' statute pro- 
vision exists in Virginia and North Carolina. 
Such connexions in France and Germany 
constitute the degraded state of concubinage, 
which is known in the civil law. But they 
are not legal marriages, because the parties 
want that equality of state or condition, which 
is essential to the contract.' 

I go further back still. When the Consti- 
tution of the United States was adopted, every 
State (Massachusetts excepted) tolerated sla- 
very. And in some of the States, down to a 
late period, severe laws have been kept in 
force regarding slaves. With respect to N. 
York, at that time her laws and penalties 
were severe indeed, and it was not until July 
4th, 1827, that this great state was ranked 
among the free states. 

To my mind,, it would be a perversion of 
terms, and the well known rule of construc- 
tion, to say that slaves, free blacks, or Indi- 
ans, were citizens, within the meaning of that 
term, as used in the Constitution. 1 God for- 
bid that X should add to the degradation of 
this race of men, but I am bound by my duty 
to say, they are not citizens. 

I have thus shown you that this law is not 
contrary to the second section of the fourth 
article of the Constitution of the U. States, 
for that embraces only citizens. 

But there is still another consideration: if 
they were citizens, I am not sure this law 
would then be unconstitutional. The Legis- 



164 



Mist CrandalVs Second trial. 



lature may regulate schools. I am free to 
say, that education is a fundamental privilege ; 
but this law does not prohibit schools. It pla- 
ces them under the care of the civil authority 
and selectmen, and why is not this a very 
suitable regulation? I am not sure but the 
Legislature might make a laAv like this, ex- 
tending to the white inhabitants of other 
states, who are unquestionably citizens, pla- 
cing all schools for them under suitable boards 
of examination, for the public good, and I can 
see no objection to the board created by this 
act. 

What can the Legislature of this State do ? 
It can make any law, which any legislature 
can make, unless it shall violate the Constitu- 
tion of theUnited States or the Constitution of 
its own State, and in my opinion this law is 
not inconsistent with either. 

The jury have nothing to do with the popu- 
larity or unpopularity of this or any other law, 
which may come before them for adjudication. 
They have nothing to do with its policy or 
impolicy. Your only inquiry is, whether it 
is constitutional. 

I may say with truth, that there is no dispo- 
sition in the judicial tribunals of this State, 
nor among the people, to nullify the laws of 
the State ; but if constitutional, to submit to 
them, and carry them into full effect, as good 
citizens. If individuals do not like the laws 
enacted by one legislature, their remedy is 
at the ballot boxes. It often occurs, on sub- 
jects of taxation, that laws are supposed by 
some to be unjust and oppressive. Nearly 
every session of the Assembly, attempts have 
been made to alter and change such laws, but 
as long as they exist, they must have effect. 

You will now take this case into your con- 
sideration, and notwithstanding my opinion of 
the law, you will return your verdict accord- 
ing to law and evidence. I have done my 
duty, and you will do yours.' 

The Jury, after an absence of twenty or 
thirty minutes returned a verdict of guilty. 
A bill of exceptions, as the Unionist informs 
us, was filed by the defendant's counsel, and 
the case will be brought before the Supreme 
Court of Errors, which sits in Brooklyn next 
July. 

We have presented the charge of Judge 
Daggett at length, on account of the great 
importance of the questions which it discuss- 
es. If he be right, more than three hundred 
thousand native Americans are by this decis- 
ion disfranchised, deprived of rights which 
have hitherto never been disputed in courts 
of justice, and made strangers and aliens in 
the land of their birth. 

We have read this extraordinary opinion 
with astonishment and horror. It is not 



strange, perhaps, that prejudice should blind 
ignorant and thoughtless men to the rights of 
their fellow-citizens, or should obtain access 
to the halls of legislation. But it is strange 
and alarming when prejudice enters our 
courts, boldly usurps the judicial seat, and 
throws the sword into the scales of justice. 

We would not be understood as making the 
slightest imputation upon the purity of the 
motives of the learned judge. But it is mel- 
ancholy to find a person of his distinguished 
legal science and ability, so misled by popular 
feeling as to lose sight of the great land- 
marks of law and justice. 

In commenting upon his opinion, we shall 
not attempt to follow the course of - his argu- 
ment, but consider the questions which it pre- 
sents in what seems to us the, most convenient 
order, answering, as occasion offers, such of 
his reasonings as seem to require remark. 

We shall consider 1. What persons are na- 
tive citizens of the United States and; of a 
State : 2. Whether free, colored persons born 
in any one of the States are citizens, within 
the meaning of the clause of the constitution 
which gives to the citizens of each State, the 
privileges .and immunities of citizens in the 
several States : and 3. Whether the law of 
Connecticut violates the constitution of the 
United States.* 

1. What pa-sons are, native citizens of the 
United States, and of a State ? 

The meaning of the word citizen in this 
connexion is a pure question of law, to be de- 
cided by an appeal to legal authority, not to 
the loose definitions of lexicographers. It 
seems, therefore, strange that Judge Daggett 
should have cited Dr. Webster, since his first 
three definitions, exhibiting three senses in 
which the word, is used, have obviously no 
bearing on the question, and his last is mani- 
festly incorrect. Dr. Webster makes holding 
the elective franchise, and purchasing and 
holding real estate, the criterion of citizenship 
in this- country. But far more than half of the 
persons who are unquestionably citizens, in- 
cluding all women and minors, have not the 
elective franchise. These two classes are ex- 
cluded in all the States ; and in some of them 
citizens who do not pay taxes, to mention no 



.* Weshall in our observations make free use of 
some able remarks upon the charge which appeared in 
two articles in the Unionist of October 10; and of a 
communication from the Hon. Wm. Jay to Rev. S, 
J. May, in the same paper. 



Miss CrandaWs Second Triul 



105 



other circumstances which exclude, do not 
enjoy the right of suffrage. 

The other criterion of citizenship introdu- 
ced by Dr. Webster, viz. the privilege, &c. is 
equally unsound, since in several of the States, 
for instance Louisiana and Ohio, aliens can 
purchase, hold, and inherit real estate as well 
as citizens. 

A citizen is a member of apolitical commu- 
nity, to which he owes fidelity or allegiance, 
and from which he is entitled to protection. 
Every political body which is formed has of 
course the right of saying what persons shall 
be members of the body. The criterion of 
citizenship of course varies in different ages 
and countries. Thus, at first none but inhab- 
itants of Rome and a small territory around 
it, were Roman citizens. Afterwards the 
privileges of citizenship were gradually ex- 
tended to various cities and nations, till at last 
they were granted to the inhabitants of the 
whole Roman world. 

In order to decide who are now citizens of 
the United States, we must go back to our 
revolution. When that convulsion separated 
these States from the mother country, the 
question, who were citizens, depended upon 
the common law of England, which was the 
law of all the States : and now the question, 
who are citizens, must be decided by the prin- 
ciples of the same law, except where it has 
been altered by our constitutions or laws. 

' The first and most obvious division of the 
people,' we borrow the words of Blackstone, 
'is into aliens and natural born subjects. Nat- 
ural born subjects are such as are born within 
the dominions of the crown of England; that 
is, within the ligeance, or, as it is generally 
called, the allegiance of the king : and aliens, 
such as are born out of it. Allegiance is the 
tie 01 ■ ligamen, which binds the subject to the 
king, in return for that protection which the 
king affords the subject.' 1 Bl. Comm. 366. 

The common law divides all persons into 
two classes, aliens and subjects. It recognizes 
no third class. Every man who is not a sub- 1 
ject is an alien. ' Every man is either alieni- 
gence, an alien born, or a suhditus, a subject 
born.' Calvin's case, 7 Co. 17 a. We might 
readily multiply authorities upon this subject, 
but the principles of .the common law are so 
well settled, that it seems to us unnecessary. 

At the. time of the revolution, all the inhab- 
itants of the United States who were subjects 
ofthekingof England, who adhered to the 



United States, and continued to reside in this 
country, became citizens of the new States. 
This result of the separation of the two coun- 
tries is so obvious, that it needs no authority 
to support it. 

If there could be any doubt upon this point 
it was settled, in some cases at least, by ex- 
press legislation. One of the earliest statutes 
passed by Massachusetts declares 'That all 
persons abiding within this State, and deriving 
protection from the laws of the same, owe 
allegiance to this State, and are members 
thereof,' that is, citizens, for the very next 
clause goes on to speak of the allegiance due 
from persons visiting and making a temporary 
stay in the State. St. 1777, s. 1. 2 Mass. Law 
Ed. 1801, p. 1046. 

A resolution of a committee of the State of 
New- York, passed July 16, 1776, contains a 
similar declaration in almost precisely the 
same words. 

A similar statute was passed in New-Jersey, 
Oct. 4, 1776. 

According to the law of Massachusetts, it 
does not seem to be necessary that a person, 
in order to become a member of the State, 
should have been a subject of the British 
crown. 

From the close of the revolutionary war to 
the time of the adoption of the constitution of 
the U. S. all persons born in this country be- 
came citizens of the respective States within 
whose jurisdiction they were born, by the rule 
of the common law, unless where they were 
prevented from becoming. citizens by the con- 
stitution or statutes of the place of their birth. 
We are not aware of any law having ever 
been enacted, to deprive any native citizens 
of their birthright. 

When the constitution of the United States 
was formed, all persons then citizens of the 
several States became citizens of the United 
States. Since that period, all persons born 
within the territorial limits and under the ju- 
risdiction of the United States, became citizens 
of the United States, unless some law or con- 
stitution prevented them from becoming so. 
Persons born in the States became also, from 
their birth, citizens of their respective native 
States, with a similar exception. This is the 
clear result of the common law- principle. The 
double citizenship which the citizens of each 
State thus acquire, arises from our peculiar in- 
stitutions, which place the inhabitants of the 
country under two governments. 



166 



Miss CrandaWs Second Trial. 



This is the view taken of the subject by Mr. 
Rawle, a distinguished commentator on the 
constitution. He says, 'The citizens of each 
State constituted the citizens of the United 
States, when the constitution was adopted. 
The rights which appertained to them as citi- 
zens of those respective commonwealths, ac- 
companied them in the formation of the great 
compound commonwealth which ensued. They 
became citizens of the latter, without ceasing 
to be citizens of the former, and he who was 
subsequently born a citizen of a State, became 
at the moment of his birth a citizen of the Uni- 
ted States. Therefore every person born with- 
in the United States, its territories, or districts, 
whether the parents are citizens or aliens, is 
a natural born citizen in the sense of the con- 
stitution, and entitled to all the rights and 
privileges appertaining to that capacity.' — 
Rawle on the Constitution, 86. 

It is observable that Mr. Rawle makes no 
■exception to his statement, that every person 
born within the United States is a citizen. 

Many questions indeed have been discussed 
-on the subject of allegiance, citizenship, and 
naturalization, both in this country and in 
England, such as whether a person born in 
'Scotland, after the descent of the English 
■crown to the King of Scotland, was an alien, 
and thus incapable of inheriting land in Eng- 
land; and whether a subject can expatriate 
himself, that is, throw off his allegiance to his 
■native country. But in all these questions it 
as assumed as a settled, indisputable principle, 
that a man is a subject or citizen in the coun- 
try of his birth. This is uniformly taken for 
granted, and never discussed, because never 
disputed. 

One of our most distinguished judges says, 
* Nothing is better settled at the common law 
than the doctrine that the children even of 
aliens born in a country, while the parents are 
■resident there under the protection of the 
government, and owing a temporary allegiance 
thereto, are subjects by birth.' Inglis v. 
Trustees of Sailors Snug Harbor, 3 Pet. 164, 
by Story. 

It possibly may be contended that the com- 
mon law principles in regard to subjects, do 
not apply to citizens. But this position is un- 
tenable, as will be obvious from the following 
considerations. 

The word citizen expresses precisely the 
game relation to the State which subject does 
to the king. Indeed for a considerable period 



after the revolution, the word subject was used 
as synonimous With citizen. Thus in the de- 
claration of rights in the constitution of Mas- 
sachusetts, the word subject is several times 
introduced, where we should now use citizen. 
So in Mass. St. 1784, c. 72, s. 10, a punish- 
ment is enacted for kidnapping ' any subject 
of this Commonwealth, or other person lawfully 
residing and inhabiting therein.' In this pas- 
sage the word subject can have no other mean- 
ing than that of citizen. 

Neither the constitation nor statutes of the 
United States, nor, as far as we are aware, do 
the constitution or laws of any State define 
what persons born within the country are na- 
tive citizens. If therefore we cannot resort 
to the common law, we are left without any 
guide on the subject. The right of the great 
mass of white persons born in this country to 
be considered citizens, rests on the common 
law principles in regard to subjects. 

The common law principles are evidently 
considered the foundation of our law of citi- 
zenship, in our constitutions and statutes, in 
the discussions of counsel, the decisions of 
our courts, and the treatises of jurists. 

Our conclusion is, that all persons born with- 
in the jurisdiction of the United States are na- 
tive citizens, excepting those persons, if there 
be any such, as the constitution or laws de- 
prive of that privilege ; and that all persons 
born within the jurisdiction of any one of the 
States, are citizens thereof, with a similar ex- 
ception. 

We have perhaps taken up too much time 
in proving this plain arid familiar position. 
But where elementary principles are doubted, 
where violent attempts are made to uproot the 
foundations and land marks of law,— a little 
effort to establish them is pardonable. 

2. We next come to the question, whether 
free persons of color horn in one of the States 
are citizens of that State, within the meaning 
of the constitution. 

Having already shown that, according to the 
principles of the common law, all persons born 
within the jurisdiction of any State are citi- 
zens of it, and further, that distinguished 
jurists and judges lay down the rule without 
making an exception of colored persons, we 
have already established the position, that 
free colored persons born in any of the States, 
are citizens in the States of their birth. Those 
who deny it then, are bound to show that the 
free colored persons, born in this country, 
- 



Miss CrandaWs Second Trial. 



107 



come within some known exception to the 
general rule. We shall, therefore, consider 
some of the arguments of those who deny 
that colored persons are citizens, before ad- 
ducing any further evidence in support of the 
affirmative of the proposition. 

We understand Judge Daggett's argument 
to be as follows, namely, that when the Con- 
stitution provided that the citizens of each 
State should be entitled to the privileges and 
immunities of citizens in the several States, 
it did not contemplate as citizens those de- 
graded castes of men, who were not regarded 
in the States, on an equal footing with other 
native inhabitants. Thus slaves and Indians 
are not citizens within the meaning of the 
constitution, neither are free people of color. 

The construction which Judge Daggett at- 
tempts to give to the clause of the constitu- 
tion, is harsh and strained. The word citizens 
has a precise, definite, and technical meaning 
in the place in which it stands, instead of which 
Judge Daggett would give it a loose, indefinite, 
and uncertain one. The clause evidently was 
intended to prevent those persons who enjoy- 
ed the rights of citizenship in one State, from 
being considered aliens in another. Judge 
Daggett, instead of giving the benefit of this 
liberal provision to all who come within its 
meaning, would contend that a certain class, 
whom he seems to admit are really citizens, 
ought to be deprived of its benefit, because 
they are sometimes not, called citizens. Noth- 
ing, however, can be more obvious, than that 
the inaccurate nse of a word in common con- 
versation or popular declamation, is no test of 
its legal signification. This can only be de- 
termined by the strict rules of law. 

Judge Daggett appears to view degraded 
castes as not citizens. But whence does he 
derive this opinion ? Not from the common 
law. For in England, all classes of persons, 
from the nobility down to the villeins or slaves, 
were subjects.. Co. Lit, 127 a. Our con- 
stitutions and statutes contain no enactments 
on the- subject. 

Judge Daggett says, that the Indians are 
not citizens. This may be admitted. This, 
however, is not because they are a degraded 
caste, but because they have not become a 
part of our political communities, having con- 
tinued, though within our territorial limits, as 
distinct tribes, governed by their own laws. 
3 Kent's Comm. 185. If any Indians should 
voluntarily become a part of our political com- 



munities, should settle among the whites, and 
submit to our laws, we know of no principle 
on which the right of citizenship could be de- 
nied to their children. 

But Judge Daggett says, that slaves are not 
citizens. Unfortunate as their condition cer- 
tainly is, we feel some doubt whether this 
proposition be correct. According to the- 
principles of the common law, a villein or slave 
was a subject. By the same principle, a ne- 
gro slave here would be a citizen. In Great 
Britain, the slaves in the West Indies are 
frequently spoken of as British subjects. Their 
right to the title, we have never seen ques- 
tioned. Do not slaves owe allegiance or fidel- 
ity tu the government under which they are 
born ? Are they not in return entitled to its 
protection ? Suppose a native slave from South 
Carolina should go to a foreign country, and 
there join an invading army, could he not be 
punished for treason, if taken in arms against 
the United States ? A stranger who had mere- 
ly had a temporary residence here, would be 
guilty of no crime under such circumstances. 
The correlative of slave is not citizen, but free- 
man. The correlative of citizen is not slave y 
but alien. It is not necessary for us to pro- 
nounce whether a slave be a citizen or noL- 
It is certainly a point which admits of debate.. 

It seems from the constitutions of some of 
the Southern States, that they consider it 
questionable whether slaves are not citizens.. 
Thus, several of these constitutions give the 
right of suffrage to the '■free white male citi- 
zens,' of the age of twenty-one years. This 
distinctly implies, that there may be citizens- 
who are not free. If the word citizen implied- 
freedom, to say i free citizens ' would be a mere- 
tautology. 

But perhaps we have given the point more ■ 
attention than it merits, for the condition o£" 
the slaves would be little improved by deco- 
rating them with the name of citizens. To* 
the free people of color, however,, citizenship- 
is of real value. 

Let it be admitted then, that slaves are not- 
citizens. Why are they not ? Because they 
are not free, because they are slaves. Their' 
disability arises from their servile condition. 
According to Judge Daggett's own statement, 
a citizen means a freeman. Then why are not- 
the blacks and their descendants, who have 
ceased to be slaves and become freemen, citi- 
zens ? The servitude which created their dis- 



168 



Miss CrandaWs Second IMal. 



ability having ended, why should they not 
enjoy the privileges of freemen ? 

As we have already said, no class of men is 
excluded by the common law from citizen- 
ship. The mere circumstance then, of the 
free people of color being regarded as a de- 
graded caste, does not, according to that law, 
deprive them of this privilege. 

How then are they to be deprived of their 
birthright, — of that citizenship which the com- 
mon law confers on them, with the first breath 
they draw ? Not by implication surely — not 
by strained construction, — but by express 
enactment. Statutes may provide that they 
shall not carry the mail, that they shall not 
exercise the privilege of voting, that they shall 
not serve in the militia, that they shall not in- 
termarry with the whites. These laws are 
direct and express, and must be submitted to. 
But these laws do not deprive them of citizen- 
ship. Cruel as their country has been to them, 
she has not yet spurned them from her bosom, 
she has not yet declared them aliens on their 
native soil. 

If the free native colored man cannot be 
deprived of any one of the smallest privileges 
of citizenship, except by express enactment, 
surely he cannot be robbed of the whole of 
these privileges without some direct provision 
of law. 

But Judge Daggett cites one authority, 
Chancellor Kent, to. show that free colored 
people cannot be citizens. The passage cited, 
however, is very far from proving such to be 
Chancellor Kent's opinion. It merely states 
indisputable facts, in regard to the severity of 
our laws and opinions against the free blacks. 
If, however, any one might be led to conjec- 
ture, from the passage in question, that Chan- 
cellor Kent did not consider the free blacks 
as citizens, the impression would be correct- 
ed by referring to another passage in his com- 
mentaries, where his opinion is declared in a 
manner too clear to admit of doubt. 'The 
article in the Constitution of the U. States, de- 
claring that citizens of each State were enti- 
tled to all the privileges and immunities of 
citizens in the several States, applies only to 
natural born or duly naturalized citizens, and 
if they remove from one State to another, they 
are entitled to the privileges that persons of 
the same description are entitled to in the 
State to which the removal is made, and to 
none other. If, therefore, for instance, free 
persons of color are not entitled to vote in 



Carolina ; free persons of color emigrating 
there from a northern State, would not be en- 
titled to vote.' 2 Kent's Comm. 71. 

If the decision of the question whether free 
people of color are citizens, is to be made on 
the authority of Chancellor Kent, it is distinctly 
settled in this passage in the affirmative. The 
passage is much stronger, than if he had an- 
nounced their citizenship as a separate propo- 
sition. But he takes it for granted, in illus- 
trating the proposition laid down in the last 
clause of his first sentence. He assumes it 
as a principle which did not admit of any dis- 
pute. If he had regarded their citizenship 
as in any degree a matter of doubt or contro- 
versy, he would of course have selected a dif- 
ferent illustration. 

But direct and conclusive authorities are 
not wanting to show the citizenship of free co- 
lored persons. We have them in such abun- 
dance that our only difficulty is how to select 
from them. 

Although Dr. Webster's position is false, 
that no persons are citizens but those who ex- 
ercise the elective franchise, still this privi- 
lege is one which is usually considered as 
appertaining to citizens only. Now, in point 
of fact, it is not disputed that free blacks in 
some of the States have the right to vote, and 
exercise it without question. This is the case 
in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Maine. 
In some of the other States also the people of 
color seem to be included in the general terms 
of their constitutions. In New-York the con- 
stitution expressly speaks of the people* of co- 
lor as citizens, and requires them to possess a 
freehold estate of the value of two hundred 
and fifty dollars, in order to entitle them to 
vote. 

The provision of the constitution of New- 
York is important. It is not simply the ex- 
pression of an opinion by the convention which 
prepared the constitution, highly respectable 
as it was, but it is an enactment of the people 
of the State of New- York in the most solemn 
manner, upon a point where they were com- 
petent to decide, that free people of color are 
citizens. It of course puts the question at 
rest in regard to native colored persons inhab- 
iting New- York. They are citizens of that 
State, and of course entitled to the privileges 
of citizens in all the States. 

The debates in the New- York convention 
show that the right of suffrage was not con- 
ceded to the people of color without debate. 



Miss CrandaWs Second Trial. 



169 



The subject was discussed. The speeches 
of Peter A. Jay, Chancellor Kent, Rufus 
King, and Abraham Van Vechten in the con- 
vention, declare distinctly and explicitly that 
they considered free colored people citizens. 

In many of the States, and we presume in 
all, free colored persons purchase and inherit 
real property without question. This is the 
case in some of the States, Massachusetts 
for instance, where the old rule of the com- 
mon law disability of aliens in regard to real 
property still continues. It is evident, there- 
fore, that, in those parts of the country at least, 
free people of color are not regarded as aliens ; 
for there can be no question, considering the 
prejudices which exist against this class of 
persons, that efforts would have been made 
to deprive them of their lands, if it had been 
supposed there was any pretence for it. If 
native free colored persons are not aliens, we 
contend that they are citizens, for the law re- 
cognizes no third class of persons. 

Suppose we should admit Dr. Webster's 
last definition of citizen to be correct; it 
clearly appears that many colored persons in 
the United States are citizens, for many of 
them exercise the elective franchise, and pur- 
chase, hold, and inherit real property. 

Judge Daggett seems to admit that a vessel 
owned and commanded by a native colored 
person is entitled to the privileges of an Amer- 
ican ship, under the statute of the United 
States which requires it in order to be so 
considered to be wholly owned and com- 
manded 'by a citizen or citizens' of the 
United States. Yet he says that though free 
blacks might be citizens within the meaning of 
the act of Congress, they are not citizens with- 
in the meaning of the Constitution. It strikes 
us, however, that by this concession he leaves 
himself no ground to stand upon. It is obvi- 
ous upon reading the statute and the Consti- 
tution, that the word citizens is used in both 
cases in a precise, legal, technical sense, for 
the very purpose of defining a certain class of 
persons who were to be entitled to certain 
privileges in this country. If Judge Daggett 
concedes that the word is used in this sense 
in the statute, can he give any reason for sup- 
posing it used in a different sense in the Con- 
stitution ? 

But the question, whether free people of 
color are citizens within the meaning of the 
Constitution, has received a direct decision 
on an occasion of great interest. A statute of 

VOL. I. 



the United States, passed March 6, 1820, au- 
thorized the inhabitants of the territory now 
embraced within the State of Missouri, to form 
a constitution and State government, and pro- 
vided that the State when formed should be 
admitted into the Union, upon an equal foot- 
ing with the original States. The statute 
also provided that an attested copy of the 
constitution formed by Missouri should be 
transmitted to Congress, as soon as might 
be after its formation. A State constitu- 
tion was accordingly adopted by a conven- 
tion in Missouri, in July, 1820. The fourth 
clause of the twenty-sixth section of the third 
article of this constitution, makes it the duty 
of the General Assembly, among other things, 
'to pass such laws as may be necessary to 
prevent free negroes and mulattoea from com- 
ing to and settling in this State, under any 
pretext whatever.' This constitution was 
brought before Congress at its next session. 
The clause in question gave rise to consider- 
able debate, which resulted in the passage of a 
resolution on March 2, 182J, that Missouri 
should be admitted into the Union, ' upon the 
fundamental condition, that the fourth clause 
of the twenty-sixth section of the third article 
of the constitution submitted on the part of 
said State to Congress, shall never be con- 
strued to authorize the passage of any law, 
and that no lav/ shall be passed in conformity 
thereto, by which any citizen, of either of the 
States in this Union, shall be excluded from 
the enjoyment of any of the privileges and 
immunities to which such citizen is entitled 
under the constitution of the United States : 
Provided that the legislature of the said State, 
by a solemn public act, shall declare the assent 
of the said State to the said fundamental con- 
dition, and shall transmit to the President of 
the United States, on or before the fourth Mon- 
day in November next, an authentic copy of 
the said act ; upon the receipt whereof, the 
President, by proclamation, shall announce the 
fact ; whereupon, and without any further 
proceeding on the part of Congress, the ad- 
mission of the said State into this Union shall 
be considered as complete.' 

This resolution of Congress is a deliberate 
and solemn declaration of that body, which 
then embraced distinguished lawyers and 
statesmen from all parts of our country, that 
there were" free negroes and mulattoes in the 
United States who were citizens, and as such 
entitled to the protection of the Constitution. 



I7G 



Riot in New-1'ork. 



Our conclusion is, that all free people of 
color born in any State, are citizens of that 
State. 

3. We come now to the third question, 
ivhether the statute of Connecticut be a violation 
of the clause of the Constitution, ivhich gives 
the citizens of each State the privileges and im- 
munities of citizens of the several Slates. 

We contend that it was a violation of the 
Constitution in its application to the colored 
citizens of other States. 

The object of the clause in question is ob- 
vious. 'It was,' in the words of Judge Story, 
'to confer on them, [the citizens of each 
State] if one may so say, a -general citizen- 
ship ; and to communicate all the privileges 
and immunities, which the citizens of the 
same State would be entitled to under the 
like circumstances.' 3 Story's Connri. 675. 

A colored citizen of New-York or Massa- 
chusetts, therefore, going into Connecticut, 
becomes entitled to all the privileges and im- 
munities of citizens of Connecticut. Un- 
doubtedly the State of Connecticut might, in its 
wisdom, make it a penal offence, to set up any 
school or academy in the State. But a law 
making it a penal offence to set up a school 
for the instruction of citizens of other States, 
while it is no offence to set up a similar es- 
tablishment for citizens of the State, is mani- 
festly unconstitutional. Itis depriving citizens 
of other States of privileges enjoyed by the 
citizens of Connecticut. 

We might have added many authorities, 
arguments and illustrations to those we have 
adduced. But we have not thought it neces- 
sary, as what we have said, seems to us en- 
tirely sufficient to establish our conclusions. 

Some of our readers, on the other hand, 
may think we have devoted too much space 
to discussing a question of law. But we again 
beg them to recollect that the rights of three 
hundred thousand of their countrymen are di- 
rectly involved in the decision of this question ; 
and indirectly those of more than two millions. 
The law is the only power to which the weak 
and helpless can appeal from the decrees of 
prejudice and oppression. 

All good men of every party should cry out 
against the statute of Connecticut, not merely 
as a violation of the Constiution of our coun- 
try, but as a violation of the spirit! of our free 
institutions, and the common right*of human- 
ity. The people of a free and ; enlightened 
State have solemnly enacted, that a few chil- 



dren, whose complexion is different from their 
own, shall not come within their territory to 
be educated, and that persons who shall har- 
bor these young offenders, thus guilty of the 
enormous crime of endeavoring to be instruct- 
ed, shall themselves be punished as criminals. 
This is the statute. We can offer no com- 
ment upon it, that could excite deeper indig- 
nation in every freeman, — in every Christian 
—in every man who owns the soul or spirit of 
a man — than the bare statement of its abomi- 
nable provisions. 



RIOT IN NEW-YORK. 

We noticed in our last, the formation of a 
City Anti-Slavery Society in New-York, but 
had not room to mention the riotous proceed- 
ings to which the call of the meeting for form- 
ing the Society gave occasion. The New- 
York Evangelist of Oct. 5, gives the follow- 
ing account of these proceedings. 

' The public are aware of a notice in the 
papers, inviting ' those friendly to the imme- 
diate abolition of slavery in the United States, 
to meet at Clinton Hall, on Wednesday Oct. 
2, at half past 7 P. M. to form a New- York 
City Anti-Slavery Society.' The Hall had 
been previously engaged with the written con- 
sent of the committee of the trustees. It was 
the reasonable expectation of the calling com- 
mittee that those who were embraced in the 
terms of the call would assemble and deliber- 
rate upon the several points requisite to the 
formation of the proposed Society : and that 
if any others should attend, they would appear 
as spectators, and conduct themselves accord- 
ingly. But from the time the notice was 
given, some of the daily papers were publish- 
ing violent denunciations of those engaged. 
On the morning of the day appointed for the 
meeting, the trustees of Clinton Hall, against 
the earnest remonstrance of the committee to 
what they deemed an arbitrary proceeding, 
peremptorily prohibited the meeting from being 
held at the Hall. The Courier and Enquirer, 
and the Gazette, of the morning, called ear- 
nestly upon the citizens who were opposed to 
the object of the meeting, to give a general 
attendance and put it down, once for all. The 
Commercial Advertiser of the afternoon, al- 
though editorially disapproving of all interfer- 
ence with those who called the meeting, yet 
published a communication, calling loudly 
upon the citizens not to remain quiet. The 
streets also were in the afternoon adorned 
with the following* placard, printed in large 
and flaring capitals: 

Notice. — To all persons from the South. 
— All persons interested in the subject of a 
meeting called by J. Leavitt, W. Green, Jr. 
W. Goodell, J. Rankin, and Lewis Tappan,at 



iliol in New- York. 



171 



Clinton Hall, this evening, at 7 o'clock-, are 
requested to attend at the same hour and place. 
MANY SOUTHERNERS. 

New-York, Oct. 2d, 1833. 

N. B. All citizens who may feel disposed 
to manifest the true, fooling of the State on 
this subject, are requested to attend. 

Under these circumstances, the calling 
'committee met in the afternoon, and agreed 
that it was best to proceed in the formation 
of the Society at this time, as it was manifest 
they never could call another public meeting 
without encountering the same opposition. 
They therefore resolved to hold the meeting 
in Chatham-street Chapel, and invite as many 
friends of the cause as they could notify in so 
short a time. 

The meeting called by the Courier & En- 
quirer was notified for seven o'clock. Long 
before the time appointed, the streets around 
Clinton Hall were crowded with people, and 
finding they could not have entrance into the 
Hall, they proceeded to Tammany Hall, where 
they listened to a couple of addresses, one by 
a gentleman of this city, Mr. F. A. Tallmadge, 
and another by a Mr. Neal of Portland, Me. 
and then adopted a series of resolutions.' 

The resolutions are given in the Journal of 
Commerce, of Oct. 3. 

Resolved, That our duty to the country, and 
our Southern brethren in particular, renders 
it improper and inexpedient to agitate a ques- 
tion pregnant with peril and difficulty to the 
common weal. 

Resolved, That it is our duty as citizens and 
Christians to mitigate, not to increase, the 
evils of slavery by an unjustifiable interference 
in a matter which requires the will and cor- 
dial concurrence of all to modify or remove. 

Resolved, That we take this opportunity to 
express to our Southern brethren our fixed 
and unalterable determination to resist every 
attempt that may be made to interfere with 
the relation in which master and slave now 
stand, as guaranteed to them by the Constitu- 
tion of the United States. 

Resolved, That the thanks ofthis meeting be 
presented to Messrs Howard & Lovejoy,for the 
gratuitous use of their room on this occasion. 

Resolved, That these proceedings be signed 
by the Chairman and Secretaries, and publish- 
ed in all the daily papers. 

The Evangelist proceeds. 

'In the mean time, punctually at the hour 
appointed, a very respectable meeting, both 
for numbers and character, was opened at 
Chatham Chapel, and the whole business trans- 
acted deliberately and without molestation, 
and the meeting quietly adjourned ; and the 
members had just begun to disperse, when a 
wild shout rent the air, and it was found that 
a furious mob had broken in and filled the 
avenue, and were rushing into the chapel, 



crying, ' Garrison, Harrison, Tappan, Tappan, 
where are they, find them, find them,'' &c. Mr. 
Garrison however, had not been at the meet- 
ing, nor was it ever contemplated that any but 
citizens would take a part in the proceedings ; 
and of those who had been, some had already 
loft the house, others quietly passed through 
the crowd, and the rest found refuge with a 
meeting of Sunday school teachers, of both 
sexes, who were holding their usual weekly 
meeting in the upper room adjoining the chapel, 
These were kept in not a very agreeable state 
of siege for the best part of an hour, until a 
strong party from the police arrived and dis- 
persed the besiegers, and left the besieged at 
liberty to go home. 

We learn from the report of the Tammany 
Hall meeting, in the Journal of Commerce, 
that in the opening of the meeting, a gentle- 
man was about to address the meeting, when 
a person approached the chair and stated that 
the meeting which was to have been held at 
Clinton Hall, was at that moment being held 
at Chatham-street chapel. Several voices 
cried out, ' Let us go there and rout them.' 

' The Chairman. Gentlemen, that is not 
the way for us to act. We have met here to 
give expression of public opinion, and the only 
proper way to do so is by passing resolutions. 
Were we to go from this to the meeting at 
Chatham-street chape], we should be stigma- 
tized as disorganizes. Let us first pass the 
resolutions, and then every gentleman may 
act as he thinks proper.' 

They did pass the resolutions, and { Then 
every gentleman ' did act, we presume, as he 
thought ' proper.' The result we have seen 
above. The Courier fy Enquirer says express- 
ly, that the crowd at the chapel were those 
who had just gone to the hall. 

Who could have thought that the disgrace- 
ful scenes of Columbia, S. C. would so soon 
be attempted in New- York ? In New- York, 
where not a slave is to be found, and where, 
if a man brings his slave, he becomes instant- 
ly free ! Spirit of Slavery ! hast thou in- 
deed so poisoned the heart's blood of the whole 
American nation, that even in New- York, a 
few, confessedly a handful of free citizens, 
cannot quietly meet to deliberate on means 
for exhibiting thy features to the world, but 
at the peril of their lives? Look at it, my 
countrymen ! What a chapter have I written 
in the history of republican America ! What 
a tribute to the memory of our fathers, who 
poured out their blood like water to establish 
the principle, that ' All men are created equal.' 

In all the circumstances, the overruling hand 
of a kind Providence is remarkably visible, 
ordering so that all the objects of the proposed 
meeting were fully gained, while not a hair 
has been struck from the head of one of those 
engaged. May the same infallible Guide 
now take the direction of the Society, that 



17S 



Riot in New- York. — Emancipation of Hottentots. 



all its proceedings may be marked with the 
meekness of wisdom, giving- no just offence 
in any thing.' 

The resolutions adopted at the pro-slavery 
meeting deserve a passing remark. 

These resolutions express a most slavish 
and unmanly doctrine, worthy only of believ- 
ers in the divine right of kings, namely, that 
a question ought not to be discussed, because 
a large part of the community will be agitated 
and excited by the discussion. In whatever 
point of view we regard the questions, ' Ought 
slavery to be abolished, and in what manner,' 
whether as subjects of morals, religion, policy, 
or economy, they have a deep and pressing 
importance to every citizen of this republic. 
Why then should they not be discussed ? Be- 
cause it will offend southern slaveholders. 
Where then is the liberty of the press, which 
is guarantied to us by the Constitution ? How 
is light erer to be shed upon any dark subject, 
if to discuss it be wrong? 

But it may be said, to discuss these ques- 
tions tends to promote insurrection among the 
slaves. The abolitionists deny the fact, and 
say that slaver} 7 itself is the cause of the un- 
easiness of the slaves, and that their plans are 
the only ones which can ever bring quiet to 
the South. These are our honest opinions. 
May we not speak and publish them without 
molestation by an illegal mob ? What says 
the Constitution of New- York. ' Every citi- 
zen may freely speak, write, and publish his 
sentiments on all subjects, being responsible 
for the abuse of that right.' If any abolition- 
ist abuses this right, let him be punished by 
the law which he has transgressed. But not 
only the letter ot our Constitutions, but the 
spirit of the government, and the character of 
our people, demand that every man should 
have a right to utter his opinions without fear. 
The third resolution is not a little remark- 
able. It expresses a ' determination to resist, 
every attempt to interfere with the relation 
in which master and slave now stand, as guar- 
antied to them by the Constitution of the 
United States.' 

It is evident from the preceding resolutions, 
that the attempts which those who passed this 
strange vote, mean to resist, are all discussions 
of the subiect of slavery which express opin- 
ions different from theirs. It is also evident, 
that this is a threat of force, to suppress the 
publication of opinions, and that it is illegal 
force, the force of a mob. 



In one point of view we are gratified by 
these resolutions. The party which threatens 
a resort to force, usually has the worst of the 
argument. We, therefore, cannot but think 
that the New-York mob which met at Tam- 
many Hail, were satisfied that they had not 
reason on their side, and therefore chose to 
threaten force. 

But we will not condescend to make any 
further remarks upon these resolutions. Every 
man who values his own right to express his 
opinions, ought to respect the right in others. 
It 13 a right which in a free country ought to 
be regarded as most sacred, for it lies at the 
foundation of every other. When this is gone, 
no other is safe. 



EMANCIPATION OF HOTTENTOTS. 

We extract from the Anti-Slavery Record 
of December last, the following account of the 
emancipation of thirty thousand Hottentot bonds- 
men at the Cape of Good Hope. 

'In the year 1828, there existed within the 
colony of the Cape of Good Hope a degraded 
population of 30,000 souls,* distinct from the 
free colonists on the one hand, and from the 
Negro slaves on the other. They were not 
slaves, in the ordinary or colonial acceptation 
of the term ; but they were actually held in a 
state of abject bondage, analogous to that of 
the Israelites in Egypt, or the Helots in 
Greece, — being in fact cruelly oppressed, and 
deprived of almost every civil and social privi- 
lege which distinguishes the state of freedom 
from that of slavery. These 30,000 bondmen 
were the Hottentots, the original inhabitants 
of the country. 

In 1652, when the Dutch took possession of 
the Cape, and began to colonize it, the Hotten- 
tots are described by creditable writers as a 
numerous people, divided into small communi- 
ties, and possessed of large herds of cattle, 
which supplied their principal means of sub- 
sistence. In the progress of the European 
colonization, however, a great change gradu- 
ally took place in their condition. The Euro- 
peans (who, as is usual in such cases, had 
entered the country as friends, and had pur- 
chased with a few beads and trinkets the ground 
where the fort at Cape Town now stands, as 



* In the population tables published in Mr. George 
Thompson's work on South Africa, and derived from 
authentic sources, the Hottentot papulation of 1823 is 
rated at 30,546 persons, and that of the free blacks and 
apprenticed Negroes at 3750. In the official census 
for 1830, published in the ' South African Almanack.' 
these two classes are stated to amount to£ether31.958. 
This latter estimate, however, is considered to be 
somewhat below the truth ; and the Hottentot popula- 
tion of 1828 may therefore be fairl}- stated at 30,000 in 
round numbers. 



Emancipation of Hottentots. 



1 73 



a trading station, and a place of refreshment 
for their Indian fleets,) had gradually acquired 
possession of the extensive region now em- 
braced by the Cape colony, including the entire 
country inhabited by the Hottentot race, with 
the exception of the arid deserts which afford 
a refuge to the wandering Namacqua and Bush- 
man hordes, and which are too sterile and 
desolate to excite the cupidity of any class of 
civilized men. 

But it was not the soil of their country mere- 
ly of which the Hottentots were deprived in 
the course of these encroachments. In losing- 
the property of the soil, they also gradually 
lost the privilege of occupying even the least 
valuable tracts of it for pasturing their flocks 
and herds. Their flocks and herds also pass- 
ed, by degrees, entirely into the possession of 
the colonists. Nothing then remained of which 
to plunder them, save the property of their own 
persons ; and of that, the most sacred and una- 
lienable of all property, they were also at length 
virtually deprived. The laws enacted by the 
Dutch legislature for their protection, it is true, 
did not permit of their being publicly sold, from 
owner to owner, as Negro slaves are still sold 
(like other live stock) in the same colony ; but 
they were collectively, as a class of men, re- 
duced to a state of degrading, grinding, and 
hopeless thraldom, scarcely less intolerable 
than colonial slavery of the ordinary descrip- 
tion. 

Their actual condition, so late as the begin- 
ning of the year 1828, may be in some measure 
estimated from the following passage of the 
Rev. Dr. Philip's able and eloquent appeal in 
behalf of this long-oppressed race : — • 

' The Hottentots, despairing of help from 
every other quarter, now look to the justice 
and humanity of England for deliverance. And 
they now justly and humbly ask why they may 
not, like the colonists, be allowed to bring 
their labor to the best market ? — why they 
should be compelled to labor for two or for 
four rix-dollars (equivalent to three and six 
shillings sterling money) per month, when they 
might be receiving (at least many of them) 
twenty and twenty-five rix-dollars per month, 
if permitted to dispose of themselves as a free 
people? — why they may not be exempted from 
the cruelties exercised upon them without any 
form of law? — why they should be arbitrarily 
flogged in the public prison, upon the mere 
ipse dixit of their masters ? — why, on com- 
plaining of bad usage to a magistrate, they 
should be put in prison till their master appear 
to answer the accusation brought against him ? 
— and why they should be flogged if their com- 
plaints are held to be frivolous ? — why they 
should be liable to punishment at the mere ca- 
price of a magistrate, and without any trial ? — 
why they should be made responsible for the 
loss of their masters' property, and thereby 
kept in perpetual bondage, without ever re- 
ceiving any wages? — why they should be 



(treated as vagabonds, and their persons be 
liablo to be disposed of at the pleasure of any 
local functionary in whose district they may 
reside, if they do not hire themsolvos t.o a mas- 
ter ? — why they should be given to any master, 
by such an authority, without ever having 
been consulted on the subject? — why they 
should be liable to have their homes violated, 
their children torn from them, and from the 
arms of their distracted mothers, without hav- 
ing the smallest chance of redress ? — why they 
should be denied, by the justice and humanity 
of Britain, the boon prepared for them by the 
Batavian government, when the Cape of Good 
Hope fell into the hands of the English ? — 
and why these intolerable oppressions should 
continue to be imposed upon them, in direct 
violation of the proclamation of the colonial 
government, declaring that the original na- 
tives of the country, the Hottentots, must be 
considered and treated as a free people, who 
have a lawful abode in the colony ; and whose 
persons, property, and possessions, ought for 
that reason to be protected, the same as other 
free people ? '* 

In April, 1828, Dr. Philip published his work 
entitled 'Researches in South x\frica,' of which 
the sole object was to disclose to the British 
government and nation the iniquitous oppres- 
sion of the Hottentot people, and the persecu- 
tions suffered by the missionaries for endeav- 
oring to instruct and elevate them in the scale 
of humanity. This appeal, we rejoice to say, 
was as successful as it was able. In July of 
the same year, an Ordinance was issued by 
Lieutenant-General Bourke, who then admin- 
istered the government, of the Cape colony, by 
the provisions of which the whole Hottentot 
race within the boundaries of the colony were 
placed, by law, in respect to every civil and 
political privilege, on a footing of perfect equal- 
ity with the white colonists. And, to render 
this Ordinance more secure, an Order in Coun- 
cil was issued by Sir George Murray, in Janu- 
ary, 1829, confirming in every point the said 
colonial Ordinance, and prohibiting any gov- 
ernor or colonial authority whatever to alter 
or abrogate any of its provisions. 

This important measure, accordingly, was 
carried into effect without any opposition in 
Parliament; for the masters of the Cape He- 
lots fortunately had no representatives there. 
And it was moreover carried into execution, 
immediately and at once, without any precau- 
tionary or preparatory regulations as regards 
the emancipated Hottentots. 

We now come to the important practical 
point of the case, namely, to consider the re- 
sult of this sudden and total change in the 



* See Philip's Researches in South Africa, vol. i. 
p. 400, et seq. See also Report of Commissioners of 
Inquiry on the Hottentot Population, ordered by the 
House of Commons to be printed, July 1, 1830. (No. 
284.) F 



174 



Emancipation of Hottentots. 



civil and political condition of these thirty 
thousand bondmen. Let us see, then, what 
lias been the effect of this bold and important 
measure, 1st, as regards the colony generally ; 
Sdly, as regards the Hottentots particularly. 

On the promulgation of the emancipating 
Ordinance, a prodigious clamor was instantly 
raised throughout the Cape colony, in which 
all ranks and classes of the white population 
joined, English and Dutch, including judges 
and other persons high in office, the great 
majority of the local magistracy and public 
functionaries, and the possessors of landed 
property almost to a man. The absolute and 
utter ruin of the colony from this measure was 
loudly and confidently predicted. It was as- 
serted that the fields would be untilled, and 
the flocks go (intended, for want of laborers 
and herdsmen ; and that the white inhabitants 
generally would be reduced to ruin from this 
cause, and by being plundered by marauding 
hordes of Hottentot banditti. For it was as- 
sumed, as a result not to be questioned, that 
no Hottentot would work unless compelled by 
coercion, and that the whole race would be- 
take themselves to a life of idleness, vagrancy 
and robbery, when no longer held in servitude 
by compulsory laws. The retrogression of the 
race into barbarism (from which by the bye 
they had never been elevated, with the excep- 
tion of those instructed at the missionary in- 
stitutions) was deplored in terms of eloquent 
declamation ; and the whole of these calami- 
tous consequences were ascribed, in terms of 
no measured vituperation, by the '■patriotic'' 
pamphleteers and journalists of the colony,* 
to Dr. Philip and the missionaries at the Cape, 
to Mr. Buxton and the saints at home, and to 
that ' silly man,' Sir George Murray, who had 
been 'led to act upon their false and hypocrit- 
ical representations ' ! 

Such were the predictions and assertions of 
the South African '■patriots.'' And how have 
these assertions been borne out by the con- 
duct of the emancipated Hottentot Helots? 
Four years and a half have now elapsed, so 
that there has been sufficient time to observe 
the effects of the measure. The poor Hot- 
tentots do not deal in pamphlets, or declaim 
much in newspapers ; but the facts will speak 
for them ; and facts in matters of this sort are 
rather more worthy of attention than figures 
of speech. 

The great body of the Hottentot people still 
remain, just as they were formerly, servants 
to the white colonists ; but with some essen- 
tial differences in their condition. They can 
no longer be flogged at the mere caprice of 
the master, if they happen to offend him. 
They must now be tried and condemned on 
competent evidence by a magistate, and for a 
legal offence, before they can be punished. 



*In their journals, ' De Zuid Afrikaan,' ' De Ver- 
zaamcler,' ' The Colonist,' &c. &c, now before us. 



Their children can no longer be forcibly taken 
from them ; and they can no longer be com- 
pelled to serve for inadequate wages, or for 
none. They form now, in short, a body of 
free peasantry, instead of being a degraded 
caste of miserable and oppressed serfs. 

It is indeed true that, on the first promulga- 
tion of the Ordinance, a considerable number 
of families, finding themselves, for the first 
time, free men in reality, repaired to the sev- 
eral missionary institutions throughout the 
colony, generally from the natural and praise- 
worthy desire to obtain religious instruction 
for themselves or for their offspring, — or, it 
may be, in some cases, from the idle hope of 
living there in indolence for a season. But as 
no encouragement was given to the vicious 
at these Christian asylums, and as no means 
of subsistence exist there for the idle, the su- 
pernumerary refugees speedily discovered that 
their only resource from starvation was to hire 
themselves again (though now as free labor- 
ers) to the farmers. 

As for the apprehensions, real or pretended, 
of the colonists, that the Hottentots would be- 
take themselves generally to a life of theft 
and vagrancy, on being left free to follow 
their own course, they have proved perfectly 
groundless. For a few months at first, per- 
haps, individual cases of sheep-stealing and 
petty larceny may have been somewhat more 
frequent in some of the remote districts ; 
though that is an allegation far from being 
satisfactorily made out by their eager detrac- 
tors. But, if there actually was any tendency 
to an increase of these crimes, it is at least 
certain that it was speedily and effectually re- 
pressed by the ordinary courts of law, with no 
other aid than the ordinary police of the 
country. 

In short, the execution of this great meas- 
ure of national justice and redress, while it has 
opened the door for the progression of the Hot- 
tentot race, and has been of great immediate 
advantage to them in the important points 
above specified, has in no other respect inter- 
fered with the existing arrangements of soci- 
ety ; nor have the colonists suffered any loss, 
or even inconvenience, from its operation. 
They have merely become, as regards the 
Hottentots, responsible masters, instead of be- 
ing irresponsible despots — a change not less 
beneficial to themselves than to their depend- 
ants. And, in fact, the case of the Hotten- 
tots clearly demontrates how greatly it would 
be for the benefit of the white inhabitants of 
the Cape, if the emancipation from unrequited 
and coercive labor, which has been conferred 
on the the 30,000 Hottentots, were forthwith 
extended to the 35,000 slaves of that colony. 
No one who knows the circumstances of the 
settlement can entertain the slightest doubt 
of the entire safety of such a measure. A res- 
idence of many years there enables the writer 
of this article to speak on this point with 
some confidence, 



The Reign of Prejudice. 



175 



We leave this case of speedy emancipation 
for the consideration of those who apprehend 
that the Negro slaves of the West Indies, 
if speedily emancipated, will be necessarily 
thrown into a state of entire social disorgan- 
ization. The Hottentots of the Cape, with 
the exception of the few who had been in- 
structed at the missionary institutions, were 
assuredly not more civilized in 1828, than the 
Negroes of Jamaica. In the remote districts, 
the former were in fact immersed in the thick 
darkness of heathen barbarism and servile de- 
gradation. Yet the change in their civil con- 
dition neither released them from the neces- 
sity of labor nor roused them to deeds of plun- 
der and violence. Why should we anticipate a 
different result in the case of the West India 
Negroes? Those who know them best, the 
persecuted missionaries, fear no such result. 
Let us do justice, and show mercy ; and with 
a few simple and judicious regulations, such 
as the circumstances of the case will suggest 
to the Legislature, this great problem may 
soon be (with the blessing of God's good prov- 
idence) solved with a celerity and a facility 
that will probably astonish those not a little 
who have permitted their apprehensions to be 
excited by the absurd clamors and fallacious 
representations of the planters and their ad- 
vocates. 

Another great step has been recently taken 
in the case of the Hottentots. A considera- 
ble number have been raised to the rank of 
landholders, by having lands allotted to them 
by Government ; and the success of this ex- 
periment has been such that a short statement 
of the facts will, we feel assured, not a little 
gratify the friends of the African race. 



THE REIGN OF PREJUDICE. 

We copy from the Unionist a communica- 
tion with the foregoing title, dated Middle- 
town, Conn., Oct. 5, 1833. It requires no 
commentary of ours. 

Is this my country ! 

The wonder and the envy of the world ? 

Oh for a mantle ! to conceal her shame ! 

But why conceal it — if Patriotism cannot hide 

The ruin which her guilt will surely bring 

If unrepented ? Wilcox. 

The following facts may serve to illustrate 
the degree of importance to be attached to 
the boastful declaration, that the ' academies, 
high-schools, and colleges,' are accessible to 
the colored man. 

Less than a year since a colored student, 
of the name of Ray, was driven, (with his own 
consent,) from the halls of the Wesleyan Uni- 
versity, by the management of the sons of 
southern menstealers, and a few northern 
'dough-faces,' to use an appropriate simile. 
This was done, let it be remembered, in pun- 
ishment of no blacker crime than a dark skin. 
His moral character is believed to be irre- 



proachable. He was, and is, a regularly ap- 
proved preacher of the Methodist order. 

At a later period, a son of J. C. Beman, 
pastor of the African Church in this city, ev- 
ery other avenue of instruction being closed 
against him, and he being, withal, deeply de- 
sirous of intellectual cultivation, availed him- 
self of the assistance of a student at the Uni- 
versity, for which purpose he unobtrusively 
visited his room, once or twice a day. The 
'chivalrous' and high-minded southerners, be- 
ing offended, (as we suppose,) by the presence 
of even one drop of black blood, though, in this 
instance, coupled with a skin white as their 
own ; and finding that personal insults and in- 
dignities were insufficient to arrest the ' even 
tenor of his way,' resorted to the high-handed 
measure, not obscurely hinted at, in the fol- 
lowing letter. The letter was taken from the 
office by the father of the young man. It was 
written in a feigned hand, and addressed to 
' Beman junior (The Post Master will please 
forward this as soon as possible.) 

' Young Beman, 

A no. of the students of this University 
deeming it derogatory to themselves as well 
as the University, to have you and other co- 
lored people recite here, do hereby warn you 
to desist from such a course, and if you fail 
to comply with this peaceable request, Ave 
swear by the ETERNAL GODS! that we 
will resort to forcible means to put a stop to 
it. TWELVE OF US.' 

'Wesleyan University.' 

The President being- absent, the letter was 
laid before two of the Professors. One with 
a significant toss of the head, 'passed by on 
the other side.' The other stated, that bating 
the profanity, it expressed the sense of a by- 
law enacted by the board of trustees, at their 
last meeting. By subsequent inquiry, we 
have learned it to be even so ! The resolu- 
tion was moved and supported by Coloniza- 
tionists. That ardent Colonizationists should- 
act thus, excites no wonder: it is in exact ac- 
cordance with the policy of the society. But 
that men in their sober senses should act thus,., 
is surprising. They must sadly underrate the 
moral sense of New-England to suppose that 
such records of their narrow-mindedness can' 
exist with impunity to the college. It must 
eventually if not immediately recoil upon its; 
own head. 

We trust the project for the colored man's 
College will soon be matured, although if 
would not in the least astonish the writer, 
should it meet the determined opposition of" 
those colleges which exclude them from their 
own walls. It is now 'amalgamation,' 'twill' 
then be ' separation.' VERITAS. 



The Providence Anti-Slavery Society held 
its first annual meeting on the 8th inst., in a 
spirited and an effective manner.. 



170 



What is meant by Immediate Emancipation. — Poetry. — Donations> 



WHAT IS MEANT BY IMMEDIATE EMAN- 
CIPATION 1 

The answer to this question given below, 
is one published by the Anti-Slavery party in 
England. 

' The right of property in man must be en- 
tirely and for ever extinguished. No third 
party must be allowed to interfere between 
man and his Maker. Freedom of conscience, 
and personal liberty, without which freedom 
of conscience cannot exist, must be secured 
upon solid foundations. That accountable- 
ness to himself which the Creator has imposed 
upon every created being must not be control- 
led by any human power. This, in our view, 
implies the removal of every restraint upon 
liberty, not essential to the luell-being of society ; 
but it is not inconsistent with the rigorous en- 
forcement of every obligation which members 
of society owe to each other. We therefore 
insist upon the necessity of substituting for 
the present authority of the master, a system of 
legal constraint, of equal, if not superior vigor ; 
and of maintaining that system by regulations 
of police as severe as the case may require. 
In a word, we would abolish slavery, but we 
would establish law. We would supersede 
the private cart-whip, and replace it by the 
magisterial tread-mill. The magistrate, and 
not the irresponsible owner, must be the judge 
of what shall constitute offence ; and a jury, 
not an overseer, must pronounce whether 
such offence has been committed. The pro- 
tection, as well as the punishment of law, 
must also be administered by authority equal- 
ly removed from suspicion. Any man who 
can object to immediate abolition, thus ex- 
plained, is unconscious and grossly ignorant 
of the privileges which he himself, as an Eng- 
lishman, enjoys.' 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The Liberator of Nov. 2, mentions the for- 
mation of a new Anti-Slavery Society, at 
Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania. We have not 
yet been informed of the names of its officers. 



SPIRIT OF LIBERTY. 

' Hail to thee, Albion ! who meet'st the commotion 
Of Europe, as calm as thy cliffs meet the foam 5 

With no bond but the law, and no slave but the ocean, 
Hail, temple of liberty — thou art my home ! ' 

Moore. 

Spirit of Liberty ! where dost thou dwell ? 

' Here, where the children of liberty smile, 
High on the mountain, and low in the dell, 

Wide on the billows that circle your isle. 
Ages on ages, the nations have known, 
Wave-girdled Britain is Liberty's throne.' 

Spirit of Liberty ! deep in my soul 

Kindles a rapture, inspired by thy breath ; 

Luminous birthright that none may control, 
Glowing in life, it will glimmer in death ; 

Poverty, sickness, and sorrow, in vain 

Smite on my bosom, so thou but remain. 



Spirit of Liberty ! dost thou not ride 

Joyous and light, on the breezes at morn— » 

Over my footpath invisibly glide — 

Laugh, from my cot, the oppressor to scorn? 

Borne on my charger, so buoyant and free, 

Liberty ! swells not my bosom with thee 1 

Spirit of Liberty ! fain would I pay 
Homage befitting the lip of the brave, 

Gem of Creation ! — ' Bold freeman, away ! 
Rend off the rivets that fetter thy slave ! 

Gallant and grateful, go, build me a shrine, 

Westward afar, in the isles that are thine.' 

Spirit of Liberty ! — ' Boaster, refrain ! 

Give me the homage that speaks by a deed- 
Hands so ensanguined with cruelty's stain, 

Lips for the captive declining to plead,— 
These are my scorn, my abhorrence, and shame — 
A blast and a blight on fair Liberty's name ! ' 

Charlotte Elizabeth. 



BRITAIN. 

THE LIBERTY SHE LOVES SHE WILL BESTOW.' 

Shall Britain, where the soul of Freedom reigns, 
Forge chains for others, which herself disdains ? 
Forbid it, Heaven ! — O let the nations know, 
The liberty she loves, she will bestow ; 
Not to herself the glorious gift confined, 
She spreads the blessing wide as human kind, 
And, scorning narrow views of time and place, 
Bids all be free in earth's extended space. 
What page of human annals can record 
A deed so bright as human rights restored ! 
O may that God-like deed, that shining page, 
Redeem out fame, and consecrate our age ! 

Hannah More. 



The Treasurer of the New-England Anti-Slavery 
Society acknowledges the receipt of the following do- 
nations, viz. 

Wm. Oakes, Ipswich 15 00 

Friend from England 15 00 
Legacy in part by the late John Kenrick 150 00 
Ladies in Boston to constitute Miss Prudence 

Crandall a life member 15 37 
Young men in Boston to constitute Miss Susan 

Paul a life member 15 00 

Mr Campbell of Charlestown 2 00 

Daniel Gregg, Esq. of Boston 15 00 
Collection in Rev. Mr Lee's Society, Shelbume 14 00 

do. in Boylston Hall 9 12 
do. in Vermont, by Osbom S. Murray, 
agent, viz. 

Amzi Jones 5 00 

Caleb Hill 5 00 

Matthew W. Birchard 5 00 

A Friend 5 00 

Ichabod Higgins 5 00 

Moses Munger 50 

Augusta Munger 1 00 

Joseph Simonds 2 00 

Selah Murray 1 00 

Charles E. Tiffany 1 00 

Wm. H. French 2 00 

Otis Whitney 50 

Sally Whitney 50 

Hannah Green 50 

Diana Ray 25 

Emery Hills 1 00 

David A. Murray 50 

Myron Jewell. 25 Friends, 75 1 00 

Isaac Sweat, 75 Rosetta Ray, 25 1 00 

Collection in Hinesbury 4 25 

do. in Montpelier 4 95 

do. in Bridport 2 00 



Total 
James C. Odiorne, Treasurer. 



#299 44 



