Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/memorialofprofesOOschm 



Memorial 



PROFESSOR S. S. SCHMUCKER, 



&ELATIYE TO BINDING OUT 



'scssrcsm o©^®mns) (SsniaiiB)iE3asj» 



&EA8 IN THE HOtJSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MARCH 7,. 1839. 



HARRISBURG i 

BOAS & COPLAN— PRINTI'KS. 

.1839. 



feS.75W.73i *M! 



* 



MEMORIAL, &c 



MINOR COLORED POPULATION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 

The memorial of S. S. Schmxjckee, citizen of Adams county, in 

the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
Respectfully represents : — 

That your memorialist in common with multitudes of his fellow 
citizens, has long contemplated with regret the depressed and unprofi- 
table condition of the great mass of the colored population of our 
state. It is well known to your honorable body, that the major part 
of them fail to make a comfortable support for themselves, or to prove 
useful to those around them, whilst not a few are found in almost every 
town, who pursue no visible means of making an honest living, but 
subsist in part at least by petty depreciations on the rights and pro- 
perty of others. There is dubtless a combination of causes to which 
the deplorable condition, this portion of our population may be traced 
by the accurate observor, a condition which no philanthropist or true 
friend of his country can contemplate with indifference ; yet, after 
much attention to this subject, your memorialist is persuaded that there 
is one cause more operative than all the rest combined, the removal 
of which is entirely within the power ol your honorable body. When 
we reflect on the powerful influence which early habits exert on all 
men throughout life, and remember that, whilst nineteen twentieths of 
bur fellow citizens, train up their children to some regular business or 
calling as a means of future subsistanee, not one in twenty of our 
colored population is brought up to regular labor and business of any 
kind, it appears obvious, that the want of early training to industry 
and business, is the grand cause of the indolence and unthriftiness of 
so large a portion of them. Who among us, when we occasionally 
see one of our citizens raising his children in idleness, without theach. 
ing them any regular business, does not confidently predict, that they 
will prove worthless? Since, then, the cause of the evil enmplninr-d 



of, has mainly, in the neglect of colored parents to bind out their chil- 
dren at a proper age, to some regular art, trade or calling, and in 
their incapacity to teach them such art or trade themselves, it seems 
evident that the remedy must be sought in legislative provisions to ob- 
viate this neglect. Your memorialist therefore, presents a sketch of 
such provision, to which he respectfully invites your attention. It 
was at first his design to bring this matter before you by petitions, 
with numerous signatures, of which it is believed, tens of thousands 
could easily be procured; but the facts in the case, and the feelings 
of our fellow citizens are so well known to all the members of your 
honorable body, that it was deemed unnecessary to occupy your time 
by an attempt to prove them by numerous petitions. 

It cannot justly be objected to the annexed bill, that it infringes the 
rights of colored parents, since it only requires them to do what, as 
good parents, they ought not to neglect, and what other parents gen- 
erally perform from choice. It is, moreover, only an exercise of tne 
right of any community to protect themselves from the depredations 
of others, by legislative enactment, designed to prevent crime rather 
than punish it ; and ofthe right of the commonwealth to improve the 
condition of her own population ; a right, the justice of which cannot 
be denied, if the legislative action based on it, require only perfor- 
mance, of what all acknowledge to be a duty, and what the residue 
of the community have greatly done without legislative constraint. 
The principle of this bill seems, moreover, to be sanctioned by the 
decisions of our courts in which it is held, that " if the parent of a 
child lives at a distance, and long relinquished the protection of the 
child, a next friend to the child may bind it, and the act be valid," 
(1 S. & K. 366.) Those colored parents who neglect to either teach 
or have their children taught any mode of subsistance, have certainly 
Jailed,, however undesignedly it may have been, in the proper " pro- 
tection" of their children, and the law msy very properly step in as 
a " next friend" to supply the neglect. And it is also in their power 
to supercede the action of the law by voluntarily performing the requi- 
sitions, before the age of their children brings them within its provi- 
sions. 

The age is fixed late, in order that time may be left for the children 
to reap the benefit of our nobl« free school system, before they are 
indentured. 

It is the opinion of numerous persons whom your memorialist has 



consulted, that after the accumulated number of minors whom the 
law will find unprovided for, shall have been disposed of, there will 
be no difficulty in finding places for all, especially among our agricul- 
turalists and others, to whom they would prove very useful assistants » 
and it is probable that in most places no difficulty will occur even in 
the first instance. Thus this population instead of being crowded into 
our cities, towns and villages, where many spend their time in idle- 
ness, intemperance and wretchedness, would be distributed especially 
through the country, and grow up with habits of ftidustry and capa- 
city, for self support and usefulness. It is not unworthy of remark, 
that the execution of the law would not cost the commonwealth a 
dollar, whilst it would secure most important benefits to the commu- 
nity, and especially, to the'unbappy and neglected portion of our race* 
whose improvement it immediately contemplates. For these reasons 
your memorialist very respectfully solicits your Dody to consider the 
annexed bill, and if in your judgment, it is calculated to advance the 
public good, to avail it into a law, with such corrections as your wis- 
dom it) f j y sijggejst, 

S. S. SCHMUCKER, 
Citizen of Adams county, Pa. 
Gettysburg, March 2, 1839. 

Aft act concerning the minor colored population of this Common- 
wealth. 

Whereas, \ large portion of the colored population of this com- 
monwealth, has heretofore, not been brought up to any regular trade, 
art, occupation or calling; in consequence of which they have la- 
bored under peculiar difficulties in making an honest support; and 
not having acquired habits of industry in }outh, have failed to prove 
as useful to themselves and others, as thoy otherwise would have done. 

Sect. I. Therefore be it enacted, that from and after the passage 
of this act, all colored minors in this commonwealth, who are above 
the age of fourteen, if males, and thirteen, if females, who. have not 
been bound by their parents or other legal authority, by regular in- 
denture, to serve as apprentices to some art, trade, calling or service 
shall be bound as apprentices in the manner hereafter specified; exl 
cept in the following cases, viz: 

1. When the father himself is of temperate industrious habits, 
follows some regular art, trade, or calling, keeps his son or sons re". 



ularly employed, and is able to support, and capable to teach him or 
them said art, trade or calling. 

2. When said minor produces a certificate from a qualified and 
respectable teacher, that he is regularly and successfully employed 
in pursuing the higher branches of education, is of good moral char- 
acter, and has the means of honest support. 

3. In the case of females, when it shall be made to appear that 
they are needed for the conduct of the family, and are kept employed, 
and that their parents can comfortably support them, and teach them 
domestic service. 

Sect. II. It shall be the duty of the commissioners of the several 
counties of this commonwealth annually, to issue their precept to the 
assessors of every township, ward or district within the county, re- 
quiring them, when making out the list of taxables, to enter in a sep- 
arate column, and return a complete and accurate list of all colored 
minors, specifying the name and age of each, residing within their 
tovrnships, wards or districts, above the age of fourteen, if males, and 
thirteen, if females, who have not been regularly bound by indenture 
as apprentices to some art, trade, calling or service; which return, 
the said commissioners shall deliver to the clerk of quarter sessions, 
to be filed for the use of said court. 

Sect. III. It shall be the duty of the court aforesaid, at the ses- 
sion next ensuing, to appoint two justices of the peace in each town- 
ship, ward or district, who, after giving ten days notice to the parent, 
guardians or friends of all the minors reported in their township, ward 
or district, shall meet at the time and place of which the notice afore- 
said shall have been given to the parent, guardians or friends of the 
minors, and decide upon the cases of exception according to the pro- 
visions of this act, and within thirty days thereafter, bind all the 
minors embraced in the provisions of this act to persons of good char- 
acter : provided that an appeal shall he from their decision to the court 
aforesaid, if prosecuted at the court next ensuing; the said justices to 
receive each one doltar for every minor legally bound, to be paid by 
the master at the time of indenture. ^ 

Sect. IV. All persons embraced in the exceptions specified in 
section one of this act, shall nevertheless be annually reported by the 
assessors, and returned by the court to the justices of the peace afore- 
said, and shall be continued as exceptions, only so long as the grounds 
of such exception in the judgment of said jus! ires continued. 



7 

Sect. V. All the laws of this commonwealth, for the regulation 
and protection of apprentices, are hereby extended to all colored 
minors bound as apprentices under the provisions of this act : and by 
colored minors in this act are meant negroes, and also, mulattoes of 
every grade. 

Sect. VI. Any justice of the peace neglecting to attend to the 
duties assigned him under this act, shall on information to the court 
aforesaid, be fined twenty dollars, for each case, one half to go to the 
informer, and the other half to the count} treasury, for the benefit of 
the common schools in the district in which said justice resides. 

Sect. VII. And any person desirous of having one of said mi- 
nors indented to him, shall apply to one of the justices aforesaid, 
who if said applicant be temperate and of good character, shall give 
him a certificate, which he may present to the parent or guardian of 
said minor, and invite him to bring his or her said child or ward be- 
fore the justice. And if said parent, guardian or minor refuses to go, 
it may be lawful for the justice to cause them to appear in the manner 
provided, in the case of absconding apprentices, in the act of Septem- 
ber 29, 1770, for the regulation of apprentices, the expense of said 
process to be also paid by the person to whom said minor shall be in« 
dented. And if there be several applicants of temperate habits and 
good character, the minor shall have the privilege of election. 

Sect. VIII. This act shall continue in force fifteen years and no 
longer. <, 



