THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



FEBRUARY, 1833. 



[NO. II. 



ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NEW-ENGLAND 
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

The Annual Meeting of this Society was 
held at Boylston Hall, in Boston, on Wednes- 
day evening', January ninth. A numerous au- 
dience was assembled. 

The meeting was opened with prayer by the 
Rev. Tyler Thacher. 

Mr. Buffum, President of the Society, made 
a few remarks, in which he stated the plans 
and objects of the Society. 

Delegates from auxiliary societies having 
been requested to present their credentials, 
Mr. David T. Kimball, of the Andover Theo- 
logical Seminary, produced a certificate of his 
being a delegate from the Andover Auxiliary 
Anti-Slavery Society, which was read by the 
President. 

Mr. Garrison, the Corresponding Secretary, 
then read the Annual Report of the Managers. 
This paper explained at some length the ob- 
jects of the Society, and vindicated its princi- 
ples from the unjust reproaches which have 
been often heaped upon them. It strenuously 
supported immediate abolition, by showing the 
true nature of the measure, and its safety and 
necessity. After exposing the principles of 
the Colonization Society, and adverting to 
some other topics, the Report set forth the 
measures which the Society had adopted, and 
the gratifying success which had so far at- 
tended its exertions. We have given but a 
brief outline of this paper, as it will be pub- 
lished in a separate form. 

Mr. Robert B. Hall then moved the accep- 
tance of the Report, and supported his motion 
in a short address, in which he congratulated 
the Society upon the encouraging prospects 
before them. 

The motion was seconded by Mr. Oliver 
Johnson, and passed. 

Samuel E. Sewall, Esq. then proposed the 
following resolution : 

Resolved, That slavery and the tratficiu slaves in 

the District of Columbia, ought to be abolished by the 

government of the United States; and that every citi- 

aen of every State in which slavery is not tolerated, is 

VOL. I. 



bound to use the same exertions to put an end to it in 
that District, which he would be if it existed in his own 
State. 

Mr. SeAvall spoke for a few minutes in sup- 
port of his resolution. He adverted to the 
history of the District of Columbia, the cession 
of its two parts to the United States by Mary- 
land and Virginia, for a seat of government, 
by means of which it became subject to the 
exclusive legislation of Congress. He alluded 
to the wretched system of slave laws which 
prevailed in the District, showed how negli- 
gent Congress had been of the rights of slaves 
and otlier persons of color there; and stated 
that this District had become one of the great- 
est slave markets in the country — that slaves 
were brought into it from the neighboring 
States, chained in droves, then confined in the 
public or private jails, and finally shipped to 
the Southern ports. He pointed out some of 
the cruel injuries to which free people of 
color were subjected, by being kidnapped and 
sold for slaves, in consequence of the tolera- 
tion of the slave trade in the District ; and 
concluded by exhorting the audience to exert 
themselves to put an end to the atrocious sys- 
tem, tolerated by the American nation at the 
seat of its government. 

The Rev. E. M. P. Wells seconded the mo- 
tion, and supported it by appropriate remarks. 
He mentioned the general ignorance which 
prevailed in this community of the state of 
things which existed in the District of Colum- 
bia. Many people, he said, among us were 
not aware that slavery and the slave trade 
were thus directly countenanced and support- 
ed by the American government and people. 
He afterwards spoke of the criminality of sla- 
very, and laid down the folloAving propositions : 

1. Slavery is inconsistent with Christianity. — 

2. It is inconsistent with humanity. — 3. It is 
inconsistent with the principles of a republican 
government : each of which propositions he 
sustained by arguments. 

David L. Child, Esq. next addressed the 
meeting, in support of the resolution. He 
3 . 



18 



Annual Meeting of the JVew-England Anti-Slavery Society. 



bore testimony to the truth of the statements 
of the mover of the resolution. He then point- 
ed out how completely the slave in this coun- 
try is unprotected by law from injury and op- 
pression. He related some atrocious acts in 
illustration of his position. 

The resolution then passed unanimously. 

W. J. Snelling-, Esq. then spoke for a few 
minutes, and related an anecdote which illus- 
trated very strikingly the remark of the last 
speaker, that slaves in this country were not 
in any degree protected by the law. 

After a collection had been taken for the 
benefit of the funds of the Society, the meet- 
ing adjourned, to meet again on Wednesday 
evening, Jan. 16th. 

January 16. The Society met, pursuant 
to the adjournment. The spacious hall was 
crowded with a highly respectable assemblage, 
among which were a large number of mem- 
bers of the Legislature, from various parts of 
the Commonwealth. The meeting was open- 
ed with prayer, by the Rev. Tyler Thacher. 
Extracts of Letters from Rev. Samuel J. May, 
of Brooklyn, Conn., Gen. Samuel Fessenden, 
of Portland, Me., Arthur Tappan, Esq. of New 
York, and Mr. Theodore D. Weld of Hartford, 
Conn., were then read — as follows : 

Brooklyn, Dec. 17. 
My Dear Friend : 

Yours of the 4th is before me. I rejoice once more 
to have, under your own hand, an assurance of 3'our 
health, success, untiring devotion to the cause you 
have espoused, and though last not least, your kind 
regards for myself. Though I have written but little 
on the subject of slavery, 1 have talked much about it 
in the Lyceum, in stage coaches, in social circles — 
and in my public praj'ers, in the house of God, his 
oppressed children are never forgotten. My heart is 
with you — and I am not afraid anj' where to avow 
that my sentiments are in accordance with those of the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society. 

If possible, I shall be with j'ou at the Anniversary — 
and if I come, I shall beg leave to bring forward and 
advocate this Resolution : 

' The principles of the Anti-Slavery Society do not 
infringe the rights of any of our fellow citizens, nor en- 
danger the peace and happiness of our country.' 

But my engaffements here are so numerous and 
pressing, that I fear I shall not be allowed to lend you 
the little assistance in my power on that occasion. 
The cause of liberty is most dear to my heart — liberty 
of body and of mind. I would have my fellow beings, 
from the highest to the lowest, fear nothing but to do 
wrong ; and I would have them fear tliis more than 
death. * * * * 

Yours, affectionately, 

SAMUEL J. MAY. 

Wbi. Lloyd Garrison, Cor. Sec. 

Portland, Dec. 14, 1832. 
Dear Sir : 

Your favor under date of the 30th of Nov. was reg- 
ularly received, since which I have been casting a- 



bout to see if it would be practicable for me to be 
present at the Annual Meeting of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society, and to contribute my mite in a 
cause which I deem one of the holiest and most im- 
portant in which mortal man ever engaged. 

I lament that my domestic concerns are of such a 
nature as to preclude me from complying with j'our 
request. It is not necessary to enter on tneir detail ; 
but I assure you they are such as you would dee^i 
sufficient to excuse me even in this cause. I assure!" 
you, however, that I am with you in heart and soul, ■; 
and to the full extent of all your views. What I can J 
do, shall be done ; and I have the pleasure of saying 
to you that the great cause in which you are engagedj 
is rapidly gaining converts here ; and ] trust beforej 

the Spring opens, that we shall do something that willj 

encourage your heart. 

» ii H -X 

I received through the Post Office the other day, a 
paper from Mississippi, containing the new Constitu- 
tion of that State. The object of the person who sent 
it no doubt was to let me see that document. I find 
that by the Constitution, the Legislature is prohibited 
passing any law for the emancipation of the slaves 
without the consent of the owner ! ! This must tie up 
the hands of that people until there shall be an altera- 
tion of their Constitution. Thus we see how they in- 
tend to perpetuate this curse. ,In the same paper are 
thirteen advertisements of colored men arrested and 
committed to gaol on suspicion of being rmiaway ne- 
groes. These persons are minutely described, and in 
nine of the thirteen cases it is stated they are deeply 
marked on various parts of the body, with scars the 
effect of the lash! ! This is the humanity with which 
slaves are treated in the slave States, of which such 
boast is made by slaveholders. 

How long, oh Lord ! how long shall thy vengeance 
sleep ? When shall thy soul be avenged on such a 
nation as this ? 

Blost truly your friend and servant, 

SAMUEL FESSENDEN. 

Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Cor. Sec. 

New-York, Dec. 7, 1832. 
Dear Sir: 

1 have j'our esteemed favor of the 30th ult. request- 
ing, in behalf of the New-England Anti-Slavery Soci- 
ety, that I would attend the annual meeting of the So- 
ciety in Boston, on the 2d Wednesday of January, 
and deliver an address. If I thought it would promote- 
the cause, I should cheerfully comply with the invita- 
tion 3 but though 1 feel the subject deeply, and MiiV/f 
express mj-^ feelings in a different, and perhaps not 
less emphatic way than the one you suggest, — I am 
yet obliged to decline public speaking on the subjects 
With esteem, your friend, 

ARTHUR TAPPAN. 

Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Cor. Sec. 

Hartford, Jan. 1, 1833. 

Dear Sir: 

I have this moment received your letter of the 31st' 
Dec. containing the kind invitation of your Board of 
Managers, which I am forced by circumstances re'- 
spectfuUy to decline. 

Though it has been my misfortune never to have 
come in contact with the published views, arguments, 
&c. of the Anti-Slavery Society, its expressive name 
is dear to ?mj soul. From that I infer that the Society 
is based upon that great fundamental law of human 
right, that nothintr but crime can forfeit liberty — that 
no condition of birth, no shade of color, no mere mis- 
fortmie of circumstances, can annul that birthright 
charter which God has bequeathed to every being up- 
on whom he has stamped his own image, by making" 
him a. free moral agent — and that he who robs his fel- 
low man of this, tramples upon right — subverts jus*ice 
—outrages humanity — unsettles the foundations of 



Annual Meeting of the JVcic-England Jlnti-Slavery Society. 



19 



'human safety— and sacrilcg-iously assumes the prerog- 
ative of God: and further, tliat he who retains by 
force, and refuses to surrender that which was origin- 
ally obtained l)y \'iolence or fraud, is joint partner in 
the original sin, becomes its apologist, and makes it 
the business of every moment to perpetrate it afresh— 
however' he may lull his conscience by the vain plea 
of expediency or necessity. 

I subscribe myself, yours affectionately, 

IHEODORE D. WELD. 
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Cor. Sec. 

David L. Child, Esq. then proposed the fol- 
lowing resolution : 

Resolved, That the free People of Color and Slaves 
m this laud of Liberty and Law, have less liberty, and 
are less protected by law, than in any other part of the 
world. 

Mr. Child spoke at some length in support 
of this resolution. He showed how much 
more favorable the Civil Law was to slaves than 
the laws of the Southern States ; and stated 
that in the French, Spanish, and Portuguese 
Colonies, the slave codes being based on the 
Civil Law, the slaves were far more protected 
in their rights than they are in our Slave States 
or the British West Indies. He then pointed 
out the improvements which had been made 
in the slave^la^s of the British Islands, espe- 
cially in the Crown Colonies within a few 
years, which rendered the legal condition of 
the slaves In the British Colonies far superior 
to what it is in the Slave States. Mr. Child 
introduced a great variety of topics into his 
speech, and enforced his arguments by numer 
ous illustrations, which our limits will not per 
mit ss to introduce in this place. 

The resolution passed without opposition. 

The Rev. Mr. Russell, of Watertown, offer 

ed the following resolution : 

Resolved, That the plan of colonizing the blacks in 
Africa, as explained by its friends, is preposterous in 
the extreme, and every attempt to put its principles in- 
to operation, is an unrighteous persecution, levelled a 
gainst the free people of color, to secure and perpetu- 
ate slavery in our country 5 and, therefore, calls upon 
us to counteract its operations by an open, free, and 
fearless exposition of its policy and effects. 

Mr. Russell spoke for a few minutes in sup- 
port of his resolution. He demonstrated that 
tlie efforts of the Colonization Society could 
never diminish slavery ; that while the Society 
had removed less than 3000 persons from this 
country, the slaves here had increased more 
than 500,000 ; and showed that the true effect 
of the Society was to perpetuate slavery, by 
removing from the country a portion of the 
free colored people who it was supposed might 
sympathise with the slaves, and might assist 
them in recovering freedom. 

The resolution was adopted. 



Amasa Walker, Esq. proposed the following 

resolution : 

Resolved, That the objects contemplated by the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society are in strict ac- 
cordance with the plainest dictates of Religion, Phi- 
lanthropy, and Patriotism. 

Mr. Walker then addressed the meeting. 
He adverted to the unfavorable circumstances 
under which the Society had commenced its 
operations. Public sentiment was against it. 
Yet this, he said, did not prove that its princi- 
ples or objects were wrong, for public senti- 
ment is sometimes mistaken. He examined 
the principles of the Society, and showed that 
they were consistent with religion, philanthro- 
py, and patriotism. He compared these prin- 
ciples with those of the Colonization Society, 
and demonstrated the criminality of the latter. 
The one Society wishes to banish the people 
of color, the other seeks to improve them here ; 
the one declares that slaves are rightful prop- 
erty, the other that they are men, and have all 
the rights of men. He concluded nearly as 
follows. Every circumstance but one, is in 
favor of the Colonization Society, and against 
the Anti-Slavery Society. The former is sup- 
ported by a formidable array of great names, 
of judges, governors, and members of Con- 
gress, and of course flourishes in wealth under 
the smiles of public opinion. The latter has 
nothing to support it, but truth and justice. 
Yet these are v/orth all the rest, and must ul- 
timately crown the labors of the Society with 
glorious success. 

The Rev. Moses Thacher offered the fol- 
lowing resolution : 

Resolved, That the principles of expatriation, pur- 
sued by the supporters of the American Colonization 
Society, exert an influence in opposition to the highest 
interests of the Colored People in this coimtry. 

The resolution was adopted, after having 
been sustained by the mover in a brief but 
highly animated and cogent speech.* 

The following resolution was submitted by 
Mr. Garrison without any remarks, in conse- 
quence of the lateness of the hour : 

Resolved, That the exertions made by the free peo- 
ple of color in this coimtry to improve their condition, 
and to confer the benefits of education upon their 
children — notwithstanding the obstacles which they 
have to encounter from the laws and the prejudices of 
a large part of the community, — are highly meritori- 
ous ; that these exertions have already produced high- 
ly beneficial results, and will, in our opinion, if perse- 
vered in, produce others still more desirable. 

Adopted. 



For a very copious account of the Annual Meet- 
ing, and the speeches delivered on that occasion, vide 
' The Liberator,' Vol. IIL Nos. 3, 4, and 5. 



20 



Annual Meeting of the JVeto-England Anti-Stavery Society^ 



The following communication from the Mas- 
sachusetts General Colored Association was 
presented by Mr. Joshua Easton, and read : 

Boston, Jan. 15, 1833. 
To the Board of Managers of the New-England 
Anti- Slavery Society. 
The Massachusetts General Colored Association, 
cordially approving the objects and principles of the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society, would respect- 
fully communicate their desire to become auxiliary 
thereto. They have accordingly chosen one of their 
members to attend the Annual Meeting of the Society 
as their delegate, (Mr Joshua Easton ot' North Bridge- 
water,) and solicit his acceptaaice in that capacity. 
THOMAS DALTON, President. 
William. G. Nell, Vice President. 
James G. Barbadoes, Secretanj. 

* The proposition was accepted. 

The meeting adjourned to Monday evening, 
Jan. 21st. 

Monday Evening, Jan. 21, 1833. The 

Society met, pursuant to adjournment, at Jef- 
ferson Hall, the President, Mr. Buffum, in the 
chair. 

The Secretary being absent, Mr. Oliver 
Johnson was chosen Secretary pro tem. 

The Committee appointed to revise the Con- 
stitution made their report, which, after some 
debate, Avas adopted. 

The Society proceeded to ballot for officers 
for the ensuing year, and the following gen- 
tlemen were elected. 

PRESIDENT. 

JOHN KENRICK, Mwton. 

VICE-PRESIDENTS. 

Arnold Buffum, Boston. 

Rev. E. M. P. WeUs, Boston. 

Rev. Simeon S. Jocelyn, JVeiv-Haven, Ct. 

Rev. Samuel J. May, Brooklyn, Ct. 

Ebenezer Dole, Halloioell, Me. 

Rev. Moses Thacher, JVoiih Wrentham. 

CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 

Samuel E. Sewall, Boston. 

RECORDING SECRETARY. 

Oliver Johnson, Boston. 
treasurer. 
James C. Odiorne, Boston. 
counsellors. 



Rev. James D. Yates, 
David L. Child, 
Michael H. Simpson, 
Isaac H. Appleton, M.D. 
Rev. Samuel Snowdon, 



Benjamin C. Bacon, 
Ellis G. Loring, 
Abner Forbes, 
Frederick Hughes, 
Isaac Knapp. 



On motion of Mr. B. C. Bacon, it was 

Resolved, That this Society contemplates the be- 
nighted condition of Africa with feelings of christian 
sympathy ; and although it is forced to protest against 
tjie measures and principles of the American Coloni- 
zation Society, yet it approves every laudable effort 



to confer upon that quarter of the world the blessiifg'* 
of civilization and Christianity. 

On motion of Mr, Buffum, it was 
Resolved, That we contemplate, with the highest 
satisfaction, the untiring christian zeal and activity of 
the friends of immediate and universal emancipatioB 
in England, and that we will co-operate with them for 
the promotion of the great cause in which they are en- 
gaged, while God shall bless us with the ability to do 
so, or until every yoke of bondage and oppression 
shall be broken. 

On motion of Mr. Garrison, it was 
Resolved, That the formation of a National Anti- 
Slaveiy Society is essential to the complete regenera- 
tion of public sentiment on the subject of slavery, and 
to the speedy overthrow of that iniquitous system ;. 
and that the Board of Managers be authorised to call 
a national meeting of the friends of abolition, for the 
purpose of organizing such a Society, at such time 
and place as they shEul deem expedient. 

Voted, That the thanks of the Society be 
presented to the President and Secretaries for 
their services during the last year. 

Adjourned sine die. 

Extracts from the Annual Report. 

The New-England Anti-Slavery Society 
maintains that the slaves ought instantly to 
be emancipated from their fetters. It ac- 
iknowledges no claims upon their persons by 
theii" masters. It regards the holders of slaves 
as guilty of a heinous sin. It reprobates the 
language of those Avho say, 'we hold their 
slaves, as we hold their other property, sacred.^ 
It says to every individual — 'Let the principle 
be clearly and firmly established in your mind 
that there is, and can be, no such thing as prop- 
erty in man, and you cannot, as a patriot, a phi- 
lanthropist, or a disciple of Christ, oppose the 
immediate liberation of the slaves — you cannot 
but demand that liberation — you cannot be 
satisfied with any thing short of an immediate 
liberation.' It is not for men of christian in- 
tegrity to calculate how far it is expedient to 
do wrong. The slaves are either justly or un- 
justly held in bondage. If justly, let the traffic 
in their bodies be pursued with fresh activity, 
and all those laws be repealed which now make 
the foreign slave trade piracy. If unjustly, 
there is no alternative but to disobey God, or 
let them immediately go free. 

' But vi^ould it be safe to comply strictly with 
the requisitions of justice, nowT If they were 
not made to be obeyed, for what purpose were 
they made ? Is it safe for a band of robbers to 
cease from their robberies, at once ? Is it safe 
for the fraudulent to be honest, at once ? Is it 
safe to abandon the practice of trading in the 
bodies and souls of men, at once'} Is it safe 
to obey the Most High, by brealdng every yoke, 
and letting the oppressed go free, at once ? — 
Strange questions from the mouths of a chris- 
tian people ! 

A very singular kind of logic prevails at the 
present day. ' I concede,' says one, ' that sla- 
very in the abstract is very wicked ; but I am 
opposed to immediate abolition.' Slavery in 



Extracts from the Annual Report. 



21 



the abstracts What does the objector mean ? 
Abstract slavery never did, and never can ex- 
ist He means, perhaps — his language implies 
nothing else — that it is most atrocious to think 
of enslaving human being ; but, in fact, to buy, 
or sell, or hold them in fetters, is by no means 
sinful ! That is to say — -if a man should mere- 
ly meditate the destruction of the houses of his 
felloAV-citizens by lire, without any doubt he 
ought to be hung; — but if he should actually 
set them on fire, and run from street to street 
with the burning brand in his hand, to destroy 
others, why then he would not be guilty. It 
"Would only be necessary for him to cry aloud 
to the firemen — 'I am as much opposed to ar- 
son, in the abstract, as you are ; but see ! the 
houses are on fire ! — My abstract theory has 
assumed a practical shape, and therefore I am 
exonerated from blame. I am opposed to an 
immediate extinguishment of tlie fire. Put it 
out very gradually — -a few drops of water may 
now be tliroAvn upon it — some buckets full next 
week — -and at some future time, I cannot tell 
when, you may give your engines full play !' 

* :^ if # # 

The cause of slave insurrections at the south 
is the loss of liberty. If the cause be removed, 
can the effect follow ? The slaves fight to ob- 
tain their personal freedom. If they were 
liberated, it is pretended, they would^ destroy 
their masters ! — in other words, they fight to 
achieve their liberty, and when it is given to 
them, they fight because they receive it! — 
This is singular logic. They are so attached to 
their drivers, it would seem — so pleased with 
being bought and sold — so contented with their 
peck of corn per week — so fond of having their 
wives polluted, and their children driven away 
to be sold — so hostile to independence — so un- 
desirous of knowledge — that if they Avere set 
free, they would be so angry in being employ- 
ed as hired laborers, in possessing their own 
wives and children, in losing their fetters, in 
being placed beyond the reach of slave specu- 
lators, in being protected in their persons and 
earnings, in having an opportunity to get re- 
ligious and secular instruction, that they would 
cut the throats of their former masters, burn 
their dwellings, and desolate the land ! 

The Board of Managers are satisfied that 
the doctrine of immediate abolition is opposed 
by many, not because they really mean to jus- 
tify crime, but simply through ignorance or a 
misapprehension of its nature. It is associa- 
ted in their minds with something undefin- 
able, yet dreadful— they see, in imagination, 
cities and villages in flames, and blood flow- 
ing in torrents, and hear the roll of drums, the 
shouts of blood-thirsty savages, and the shrieks 
of the dying— and thus, bringing upon them- 
selves a strong delusion, they naturally stand 
aghast at the proposition. All this ruffling of 
inind is indeed ridiculous ; but as it originates 
unwittingly in error, it merits a charitable al- 
lowance rather than satire. 



What, then, is meant by immediate aboli- 
tion ? 

It means, in the first place, that all title of 
property in the slaves shall instantly cease, be- 
cause their Creator has never relinquished his 
claim of ownership, and because none have a 
right to sell their own bodies or buy those of 
their own species as cattle. Is there any thing 
terrific in this an-angement ? • 

It means, secondly, that every husband shall 
have his own wife, and every wife her own hus- 
band, both being united in wedlock according 
to its proper forms, and placed under the pro- 
tection of law. Is this unreasonable ? 

It means, thirdly, that parents shall have the 
control and government of their own children, 
and that the children shall belong to their pa- 
rents. What is there sanguinary in this con- 
cession ? 

It means, fourthly, that all trade in human 
beings shall be regarded as felony, and enti- 
titled to the highest punishment. Can this be 
productive of evil ? 

It means, fifthly, that the tremendous power 
which is now vested in every slaveholder to 
punish his slaves without trial, and to a savage 
extent, shall be at once taken away. Is tliis 
undesirable ? 

It means, sixthly, that all those laws which 
now prohibit the instruction of the slaves, shall 
instantly be repealed, and others enacted, pro- 
viding schools and instruction for their intel- 
lectual illumination. Would this prove a ca- 
lamity ? 

It means, seventhly, that the planters shall 
employ their slaves as free laborers, and pay 
them just wages. Would this recompense in- 
furiate them ? 

It means, eightUy, that the slaves, instead 
of being- forced to labor for the exclusive ben- 
efit of others by cruel drivers, and the applica- 
tion of the lash upon their bodies, shall be en- 
couraged to toU for the mutual profit of them- 
selves and their employers, by the infusion of 
new motives into their hearts, growing out of 
their recognition and reward as men. Is this 
diabolical ? 

It means, finally, that right shall take the 
supremacy over wrong, princysle over brute 
force, humanity over cruelty,* honesty over 
theft, purity over lust, honor 6ver baseness, 
love over hatred, and religion over heathen- 
ism. Is this wrong ? 

This is our meaning of Immediate Aboli- 
tion. 

Having thus briefly defined the extent of 
immediate abolition, it may be useful to state 
some of its probable, nay, certain benefits. 

It will remove the cause of bloodshed and 
insurrection. No patrols at night, no standing 
army, wiU be longer needed to keep the slaves 
in awe. The planters may dismiss their fears, 
and sleep soundly ; for, by one act, they will 
have transformed their enemies into grateful 
friends and servants. 



92 



Extracts from the Annual Report. 



It will give protection to millions who are 
now at the mercy of a few irresponsible mas- 
ters and drivers : every man and every woman 
may then find redress at law. 

It will annihilate a system of licentiousness, 
incest, blood and cruelty. 

It will open an immense market to our me- 
chanics and manufacturers ; for these two mil- 
lions of free persons will need, and will make 
every exertion to obtain, hats, b'onnets, shoes, 
clothes, houses, lands, &c. &c. of which they 
are now to a great extent, and while they re- 
main in bondage must be destitute. 

It will afford facilities for educating them in 
morals, science and literature, which can never 
be granted to them as slaves. 

It will permit us to supply every one of them 
with a Bible, and bring them into the house of 
God. 

It will extinguish the fires of division be- 
tween the North and the South, and make the 
bonds of our Union, (which is now held by a 
hair, if that be not separated at this moment,) 
stronger than chains of iron. 

It will enable us to take the one hundred 
thousand infants, who are amiually born of 
slave parents, and doomed to a life of igno- 
rance and servitude, — place them in infant 
schools, and transfer them into prirnary and 
sabbath schools ; from these into high schools 
and Bible classes ; and, by the assistance of 
the Holy Spirit, from Bible classes into the 
christian church. Thus they will become or- 
naments to society — capable men, good citi- 
zens, devoted christians — ^instead of mere an- 
imals. 

It will banish the poverty of the South, re- 
claim her barren soil, and pour new blood into 
all her veins and arteries. The transformation 
of two millions of slaves into firee laborers, 
animated in view of a just recompense for 
their voluntary toil, will renovate the whole 
frame of society. There is not a slave State 
Ijut will exhibit the flush of returning health, 
and feel a stronger pulse, and draw a freer 
Isreath. It is, indeed, often urged that the 
slaves, if freed, would not work. But they, 
who cherish this belief, disregard the nature 
of mind. The slaves, in their present condi- 
tion, have surely no motives for exertion ; and 
men without motives are mere machines, mere 
animals, to be watched and driven by physical 
force : the natural consequence is, they are as 
indolent as possible: knowing that, whether 
they toil much or little, the fruits of their la- 
bor will be enjoyed by their masters, they are 
improvident and lazy. Then comes the whip 
upon their bodies to make them industrious, 
every stroke of which puts v'engeance into 
their hearts, to be repaid, an eye for an eye, a 
tooth for a tooth, and blow for blow, at the first 
favorable moment. Compensate them fairly 
for their labor, and every stone in the earth 
would be a magnet to attract them. They 
would have all the hopes, and desires, and feel- 



ings of men. And here it i 3 proper to refer to 
a wild notion which is prevalent in this coun- 
try. Many persons seem to be wonderfully 
perplexed and appalled, in view of immediate 
abolition. They talk as if the slaves, on be- 
ing liberated, must be driven into the woods, 
or become drones or vagabonds in society. 
In the first place, this expulsion is physically 
impracticable ; and, secondly, the planters are 
unable to dispense with their labor. The lib- 
erated slaves would be placed under whole- 
some regulations, and encouraged to act well ; 
there would, of necessity, be few changes of 
masters, but every thing would go on as peace- 
ably as in the case of the slaves in St. Domin- 
go, who, for eight years after their liberation, 
continued to work with untiring industry, main- 
taining the utmost order, and were only roused 
to deeds of violence by the attempt of Napo- 
leon to reduce them again to servitude. The 
labor of the blacks is invaluable — the south 
cannot flourish without them ; — and their ex- 
pulsion Avould bring great and everlasting re- 
proach upon the American name. 

The immediate abolition of slavery will pu- 
rify the churches at the south, which are now 
red with innocent blood, and 'filled with aU 
unrighteousness.' It is impossible that relig- 
ion should prosper, where the pastors and 
members of churches trade in the souls of 
men. 'How is the gold become dim! how is 
the most fine gold changed ! The whole head 
is sick, and the whole heart faint.' Now, abol- 
ish slavery, and the gospel will have fi-ee 
course, run, and be glorified; salvation will 
flow in a cun-ent broad and deep ; and for a 
short time only can it be reproachfully said 
that there exist two millions of slaves in a 
christian land. 

In fine, immediate abolition would save the 
lives of the planters, enhance the value of their 
lands, promote their temporal and eternal in- 
terests, and secure for them the benignant 
smiles of Heaven. It would destroy the mar- 
ket for slaves, and, consequently, to a certain 
extent, destroy the foreign slave trade ; for 
when the Africans cannot be sold, they will 

not be stolen. 

« * * * 

In closing their Report, the Managers would 
earnestly and feelingly conjure abolitionists in 
this country to maintain their ground, firmly 
and confidently. The controversy is not, in 
fact, between them and the oppressors of their 
fellow men, but between these oppressors and 
Jehovah. Their cause is based upon the im- 
mutable principles of justice and righteous- 
ness. It must prevail. Let full reliance be 
placed upon the promises of Him who has said 
that he will maintain the cause of the afflicted 
and the right of the poor ; let every thing be 
done that may and should be done ; let the 
heart be inspired but by one principle-— love 
to God and love to man ; let abolition societies 
be established in every town and village in the 



Cultivation of Sugar by Free Labor. 



23 



free states ; and the speedy emancipation of 
the slaves is sure. 

The blood of the millions who have perish- 
ed um-edressed in this guilty land ; the suifer- 
ings and lamentations of the millions who yet 
remain in cruel servitude ; tlie groans and sup- 
plications of bleeding Africa ; the cries of the 
suffering victims in the holds of the slave-ships 
now wailed upon the ocean; tlie threatenings 
and judgments of the God of all flesh; all de- 
mand the utter and immediate annihilation of 
slavery. 

A7id let all the people, from the Lakes to the 
Atlantic, and from Maine to the shores of the 
Pacific, in one mighty burst, thunder — ' AMEN, 
AND AMEN ! ' 



CULTIVATION OF SUGAR BY FREE LABOR. 

It is often asserted by the apologists of sla- 
very, that the cultivation of the cane is so la- 
borious that no free person will undertake it ; 
and therefore it is urged that we must contin- 
ue to have slaves to make sugar for us, if for 
no other purpose. We do not perceive this 
hard necessity. Admitting the fact to be as 
supposed, wff should think the just conclusion 
would be, not that we ought to continue sla- 
very that we may have sugar, but that we 
ought to give up sugar that we may abolish 
slavery. But the supposed fact is not true. — 
The cane is successfully raised by free labor 
in various quarters of the world. One of the 
most interesting accounts of this cultivation 
which we recollect to have seen, is to be found 
in an Official Report of Mr. Ward, a British 
Envoy to Mexico, which we publish below, 
from the Anti- Slavery Reporter for August, 
1829. It was also published in the Genius of 
Universal Emancipation a few years ago. 

Mexico, March 13, 1826. 

Sir, — The possibility of introducing a sys- 
tem of free labor into the West India islands 
having been so much discussed in England, I 
conceived that it might not be uninteresting 
to his Majesty's Government to receive some 
details re>:pecting the result of the experi- 
ment in this country, where it certainly has 
had a fair trial. 

I accordingly took advantage of Mr. Mo- 
rier's prolonged stay here to visit the Valley 
of Cuernavaca and Cuantla Amilpas, which 
supplies a great part of the federation with 
sugar and coffee, although not a single slave 
is at present employed in their cultivation. 

I have the honor to inclose a sketch of the 
observations which I was enabled to make 
upon this journey, together with such details 
as I have thought best calculated to show both 
the scale upon which these estates are work- 
ed, and the complete success with which the 



abolition of slavery has, in this instance, been 
attended. 

The valley which extends almost uninter- 
ruptedly from Cuernavaca to Cuantla Amil- 
pas, and Jyncar, ( covering a space of about 
forty miles,) is situated on the road to Aca- 
pulco, at the foot of the first range of moun- 
tains by which the descent of the Table Land 
towards the south-west commences, about 
fifty miles from the capital. 

It is about two thousand feet lower than the 
Table Land of Mexico. The difference of 
temperature is proportionably great, so that 
two days are sufficient to transport the trav- 
eller into the very midst of Tierra Caliente. 

The vicinity to the capital was probably one 
of the circumstances which induced the first 
planters to establish themselves in this dis- 
trict. The richness of the soil, and the abun- 
dance of water which they found throughout 
the plain, convinced them that they could not 
have made a better choice. 

It is believed that the sugar-cane was first 
planted there about one hundred years ago ;. 
from that time the number of sugar-estates 
has gone on increasing, until there is now 
hardly an acre of ground on the whole plain 
which is not turned to account. 

The cultivation was originally carried on 
entirely by slaves, Avho were purchased at 
Vera Cruz, at from $300 to $400 each. 

It was found, however, that this system was 
attended with considerable inconvenience, it 
being impossible to secure a sufficient supply 
of slaves during a war. The losses likewise,^ 
at all times, were great, as many of the slaves 
were unable to support the fatigue and chan- 
ges of temperature, to which they were ex- 
posed on the journey from Vera Cruz to Cu- 
ernavaca, and perished, either on the road, or 
soon after their arrival. 

Several of the great proprietors were in- 
duced by these circumstances to give liberty 
to a certain immber of their slaves annually^, 
and by encouraging marriages between them? 
and the Indians of the country, to propagate 
a race of free laborers, who might be employ- 
ed when a supply of slaves was no longer to- 
be obtained. 

The plan proved so eminently successful,, 
that on some of the largest estates there was 
not a single slave in the year 1808. 

The policy of the measure became stilla 
more apparent on the breaking out of the 
revolution in 1810. 

The planters who had not adopted the sys- 
tem of gradual emancipation before that pe- 
riod, saw themselves abandoned, and were 
forced, in many instances, to give up working 
their estates, as their slaves took advantage 
of the approach of the insurgents to join 
them en masse ; while those who had provid- 
ed themselves with a mixed caste of free la- 
borers, retained even during the worst times, 
a sufficient number of men to enable them to 



24 



Cultivation of Sugar by Free Labor. 



continue to cultivate their lands, although 
upon a smaller scale. 

The insurrection, however, proved higlily 
injurious to the proprietors in general. Most 
of them were Europeans, and as such, partic- 
ularly obnoxious to the insurgents ; and al- 
though by coalescing amongst themselves and 
maintaining a considerable armed force for 
their defence, they prevented the enemy on 
several occasions from entering the valley, 
they found it impossible to secure their com- 
munication with the capital, and were thus 
often deprived of the only market for their 
goods. In the year 1814, too, the siege of 
Cuantla, A^rhich Monelos had occupied, and 
which he defended for three whole months 
against the vice-regal army under General 
Calleja, spread destruction throughout the dis- 
trict. 

Several of the Haciendas have not yet even 
recovered the losses which they then sustained, 
and some, which Avere quite ruined, have never 
been rebuilt. In general, hoAvever, the last 
eight years of comparative tranquillity have 
been sufficient to restore things to their an- 
cient state, and I could not learn that the pro- 
duce of the different estates "about Coerh|iva- 
ca had ever greatly exceeded that of theilast 
twelve months. 

The scale upon Avhich these estates are 
worked is enormous. From a supposition that 
the ground is exhausted by tAvo successive 
crops, the Mexican planters run into the con- 
trary extreme, and divide their sugar-lands 
into four eqal parts, one only of Avhich is taken 
annually into cultivation. The remaining three 
are turned to no account, so that an idea may 
be formed of the extent of an estate upon 
which so enormous a quantity of land is al- 
loAved to remain unemployed. 

The largest Haciendas in the neighborhood 
of Cuernavaca are those of Yemisco and San 
Gabriel, (both of Avhich belong to the family 
of Don Gabriel Yermo, an old Spaniard, fa- 
mous for the arrest of the viceroy Sturriga- 
ray in 1808, Avith Avhich the Mexican revolu- 
tion may be said to have commenced,) Trein- 
ta Pesos, El Puente, Meacatlan, San Easpar, 
and San Vicente Chicouquac. Each of these 
estates produces annually, from 25,000 to 
40,000 arrobas of sugar, of 25 lbs. Aveight 
each (about 5,250,000 lbs. taking 30,000 arro- 
bas as the average produce,) and to this at 
least another million may be added, for a 
number of other smaller estates not included 
in this list. 

The crops are usually most abundant, the 
cane being planted much thicker than is cus- 
tomary in Jamaica, and the machinery, in the 
opinion of Dr. Wilson, Avho accompanied me, 
and who has been much in the West India 
islands, is fully equal to any used in the Brit- 
ish colonies. 

The number of workmen generally em- 
ployed upon an estate, capable of producing 



40,000 arrobas of ^sugar, amounts to 150, with 
occasional additions when the season is late, 
or the Avork has been retarded by any acci- 
dental cause. 

The laborers are mostly paid by the piece, 
and many of them can earn, if industrious, 
from six to seven rials per diem, (35.3c^. or 
3s.9 \-2d. English money, reckoning the dol- 
lar at As Ad.) 

Fifty men are employed in watering the 
canes, tAventy in cutting, ten in bringing the 
cut canes from the field (each Avith six mules,) 
tAventy-five (mostly boys) in separating the 
green tops, Avhich they use for fodder, and 
binding up the remainder for the muleteers. 
TAventy men, divided into gangs of four each, 
in feeding the engine day and night ; fourteen 
attend the boilers ; tAvelve keep up the fires ; 
four turn the cane in the sun, after the juice 
has been expressed, and dry it for fuel ; and 
ten are constantly at Avork in the warehouse 
clarifying the sugar, and removing it after- 
Avards to the general store-room, from Avhence 
it is sent to the market. 

The art of refining, though well understood, 
is seldom or never carried beyond the first de- 
gree of the process, there being no demand 
for double-refined sugar in the market ; and 
the consequence is, that though abounding in 
saccharine matter, the article is for the most 
part coarse in appearance, and of bad color. 

The arroba of 25 lbs. sells in Mexico for 
about three dollars, or tAvo dollars and a half, 
if not of the best quality. The great Haci- 
endas expend in Avages to the Avorkmen and 
other current charges, from $800 to $1,200 
a Aveek. 

It often happens, however, that in a good 
year the sale of the molasses alone is suffi- 
cient to defray the expense, so that the sugar 
remains a clear profit. 

For every arroba of sugar an equal quan- 
tity of molasses is produced, Avhich sells, at 
the door of the Hacienda, for five rials and a 
half the arroba. It is bought up by the pro- 
prietors of the small distilleries, which abound 
to such a degree, that in the neighborhood of 
Cuernavaca alone from 25,000 to 30,000 bar- 
rels of Chingarito (a sort of rum) are made 
annually. 

The distance from Cuernavaca to Cuantla 
is about twenty-five miles ; and Avith the ex- 
ception of a ridge of mountains which sepa- 
rates the tAvo valleys, the whole intervening 
space is richly cultivated. 

After passing through the village of Yan- 
tepec, which lies at the foot of the mountain, 
there is a constant succession of Haciendas, 
most of Avhich appear admirably kept up. 

The most remarkable in the district of Cu- 
antla are San Carlos, Pantitlan, Cocoyoc, Cal- 
cleron, Casasano, Santa Ines, Cohahuistla, 
Napastlan, and Yenestepango, none of which 
produce less than 30,000 arrobas of sugar an- 
nually, while the annual produce of some 



Saftly of Lnni'idiate Emancipation. 



25 



(Cohahuistla and Yenestepang-o) may be esti- 
mated at from 40,000 to 50,000. 

The Haciendas of Cocoyoc and Pantitlan 
enjoy the additional advantage of being not 
only sugar but coffee-estates. 

Their owner, Don Antonio Velasco, intro- 
duced, at a great expense, from Cordova, the 
cultivation of this plant, which has succeeded 
perfectly. He has liow upon his two estates 
upwards of 500,000 plants, 50,000 of which 
are already in full vigor. The produce of the 
last year amounted to 5,000arrobas, or 125,000 
pounds of coffee, and as a great number of 
the young plants will begin to bear this year, 
it is supposed that the amount will be more 
than doubled. 

Coffee is now selling at seven dollars the 
arroba in Mexico. Its cultivation would there- 
fore prove indefinitely more advantageous than 
that of the cane, if the demand were equally 
great. But coffee is by no means in general use 
in this country, nor is Cuantla the only place 
from whence this demand can be supplied. 

There are immense coffee plantations in the 
vicinity of Cordova, and the whole of the 
Eastern coast is of course supplied by the 
nearest market. Were this not the case, the 
speculation would prove a very lucrative one, 
as a coffee-estate of 200,000 plants does not 
require the constant attendance of above 
twenty men, (to weed and water,) and conse- 
quently entails upon the proprietor but little 
expense. 

The average produce of each tree may be 
estimated at two pounds and a half. 

The young plants require great care and 
attention, and must be protected from the sun 
for two whole years. For this purpose a large 
piece of ground is covered in, which is called 
the semillero. The third year the young trees 
are transplanted to the open field, where they 
begin almost immediately to produce some- 
thing, and the fourth they may be reckoned in 
full vigor. They last from five and twenty to 
thirty years. 

I saw most of the Haciendas enumerated 
in the preceding list ; but was struck with none 
so much as with Santa Ines, which is beauti- 
fully kept up. It is almost the only estate 
which possesses a large distillery, Avhich pro- 
duces from 4,000 to 5,000 barrels of Chinga- 
rito yearly. 

The barrel in Mexico is worth twenty -four 
dollars, with duties and carriage deducted; 
an idea may be formed by this of the immense 
annual value of the estate. 

Cohahuistlan might be still more produc- 
tive, as it is much more extensive, and com- 
mands a greater supply of water, liut it is not 
done justice to. The estate belongs to the 
convent of Dominican friars ; and as the ab- 
bot is changed by the rules of the order every 
three years, the overseers of the Hacienda 
are usually changed with him, and they con- 
sequently allow every thing to go to ruin. 
VOL. I. 



In general, the fertility of an estate depends 
entirely upon the supply of water : the pro- 
duce of tiiose wldch have only enough for ir- 
rigation, and are forced to vv'ork their wheels 
by mules, will seldom be found, whatever may 
be the quality of the soil, to amount to one 
third of those which can command a sufficient 
supply for both purposes. 

In the quality of the soil there is but little 
difterence. 

The average annual produce of all the es- 
tates it would hardly be possible to compute. 

The greatest part of it is sent to the capital, 
from whence it is distributed to the different 
provinces ; muleteers, however, often come 
direct from the interior. 

It is a curious fact, that an immense quan- 
tity of sug^a is yearly remitted to Vera Cruz, 
not for exportation, but for the home con- 
sumption of a province which might produce 
sugar enough to supply all Europe, if it chose 
to turn to account the advantages with which 
nature has so richly endowed it. 

The most remarkable circumstance, hoivever, 
is the total abolition of slavery in a district 
where such a mass of colonial fruits is produc- 
ed, and the success ivith ivhich the introduction 
of free labor has been attended ; it is this ivhich 
has induced me to lay these observations before 
his Majesty^s Government, and to hope that they 
may be esteemed not ivholly unworthy of atten- 
tion. 

(Signed) H. G. WARD. 

Right Hon. G. Canning, &c. &c. 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. No. II. 

'Cayenne and Guadaloupe were the only 
other French colonies in which the slaves 
were emancipated. In Cayenne,* the sud- 
den enfranchisement was attended with no ill 
consequences ; afler their emancipation, the 
negroes in general continued voluntarily upon 
the plantations of their former masters, and 
no irregularities whatever were committed by 
those men who had thus suddenly obtained 
their freedom. 

'In Guadaloupe (where the disproportion 
of blacks to whites is at least as great as in 
our colonies) the conduct of the freed negroes 
was equally satisfactory. The perfect subor- 
dination which was established and the indus- 
try which prevailed there, are proved by the 
official Reports of Victor Hughes, the Gov- 
ernor of Guadaloupe, to the French govern- 
ment. In 1793 liberty was proclaimed univer- 
sally to the slaves in that island, and during 
their ten years of fi-eedom, their governors 
bore testimony to their regular industry and 
uninterrupted submission to the laws. The 
Reports of the Commissioners to the local 
government also speak of the tranquillity 
which reio-ned in the agricultural districts and 



Voyage a la Guiane, &c. cap. ii. 



26 



Safety of Immediate Emancipation. 



on the plantations. In a letter addressed by the 
Supreme Council of the Colony in Feb. 1802, 
to the Commissary Valluet of the canton de 
Deshays, it is said, " Continue, Citizen Com- 
missary, to maintain that order in j^our canton 
which now reigns universally tliroughout the 
colony. We shall have the satisfaction of 
having given an example which will prove 
that all classes of people may live in perfect 
harmony Avith each other, under an adminis- 
tration which secures justice to all classes." 

' Within the last fifty years, many bodies of 
West Indian and American slaves have been 
emancipated without any of that educational 
and religious instruction now said to be a ne- 
cessary preliminary to fi-eedom; and settled 
at Sierra Leone. During the first American 
war, a number of slaves ran away from their 
North American masters and joined the Brit- 
ish army. When peace came, it was deter- 
mined to give them their liberty, and to settle 
them in Nova Scotia upon grants of land as 
British subjects and as free men. Their num- 
ber, comprehending men, women and children, 
was two thousand and upwards. Some of 
them worked upon little portions of land as 
their own; others worked as carpenters ; oth- 
ers became fishennen ; and others worked for 
hire in various ways. In time, having em- 
braced Christianity, they raised places of wor- 
ship of their own, and had ministers of their 
own from their own body. They led a harm- 
less life, and gained the character of an in- 
dustrious and honest people from their white 
neighbors. A few years aflenvards, the land 
in Nova Scotia being found too poor to answer 
and the climate too cold for their constitutions, 
a number of them to the amount of between 
1300 and 1400 volunteered to form a new col- 
ony Avhich was then first thought of at Sierra 
Leone, to which place they were accordingly 
conveyed. Many hundreds of the negroes 
who had formed the West Indian black regi- 
ments Avere removed in 1819 to Sien-a Leone, 
where they Avere set at liberty at once, and 
founded the villages of Waterloo, Hastings 
and others. Several hundred marcfons (runa- 
way slaves and their descendants) being ex- 
iled from Jamaica, were removed in 1801 to 
Sierra Leone, Avhere they were landed with 
no other property than the clothes which they 
wore and the muskets which they canied in 
their hands. A body of revolted slaves were 
banished fromBarbadoes in 1816, and sent also 
to Sierra Leone. The rest of the population 
of this colony consists almost entirely of ne- 
groes who have been recaptured from slave 
ships, and brought to Sierra Leone in the 
lowest state of misery, debility and degrada- 
tion : naked, diseased, destitute, Avholly igno- 
rant of the English language, in this Avretched, 
helpless condition they have been suddenly 
made free, and put into possession at once of 
the rights and privileges of British subjects. 
All these instances of sudden emancipation 



have taken place in a colony where the (lis- 
proportion between black and white is more 
than a hundred to one ; being a far greater 
disproportion than that in our slave colonies.. 
Yet this mixed population of suddenly eman- 
cipated slaves — runaway slaves — criminal 
slaves — and degraded recaptured negroes, are 
in their free condition living in order, tranquil- 
lity and comfort, and many of them in afflu- 
ence. This fact is amply proved by the Re- 
ports of the Commissioners appointed in 1825, 
to inquire into the state of the liberated cap- 
tives ; by those of Lieutenant Colonel Den- 
ham, General Superintendent of liberated Af- 
ricans at Sierra Leone, and of Major Ricketts 
on Avhom the task of reporting on their state 
afterAvards devolved, and by a great number of 
other public and private accounts. In a re- 
port printed for the house of conunons. May 
7th, 1827, (No. 312) the Commissioners say, 
"Tlie general appearance of the Nova Scotia 
settlers differs but little from that of the free 
people of color in the West Indies. On Sun- 
days their dress is neat and clean, and their 
general deportment very respectable. This 
remark is equally applicable to all the other 
colored classes which compose the resident 
population of FreetoAvn, where great external 
respect is paid to the Sabbath." 

'Of the maroons they say, "They happened 
to arrive at a time Avhen their services were 
much Avanted to repel a, hostile attack, on 
Avhich occasion they appear to have conducted 
themselves well ; and they have since main- 
tained pretty generally the good opinion then 
formed of them. Several of them have been 
successful in trade, by Avhich they have ac- 
quired a comfortable livelihood: and a few of 
them who are most extensively engaged in 
mercantile transactions are supposed to have 
attained to considerable affluence, at the same 
time that they have maintained a character of 
great respectability. The dress and general 
appearance of the Maroons is very, respecta- 
ble, particularly on Sundays when a peculiar 
neatness is observable, and their deportment 
not only in chapel, but as far as opportunities 
have offered of observing it elsewhere during 
that day, is very creditable." The slaves ban- 
ished from Barbadoes Avere employed in pub- 
lic works for tAvo or three years. " At the 
expiration of this time," say the commission- 
ers, " they Avere permitted to employ them- 
selves for their o\>n benefit, and they have in 
general shown themselves to be industrious 
and useful." Of the black soldiers of the 
African corps settled in the colony they say, 
"Many of them appear industrious. They 
have generally maintained a respectable char- 
acter, and have by their exertions (aided by 
some liberal residents) and under the zealous 
superintendence of the Rev. Mr. Raban, erect- 
ed a chapel in the distant part of the town 
(FreetoAvn) where they reside. That gentle- 
man officiates there two days in the week to 



SaftUj of hnmedialt Emancipation. 



27 



ft congregation averaging perhaps one hun- 
dred persons, Avhose appearance and deport- 
ment are very creditable. 

' Speaking of the inhabitants generally, the 
Commissioners observe, " The colored men 
(under this term they include the blacks who 
form the great bulk of the population, and who 
in fact are the persons who sit on juries) whom 
we have had opportunities of observing on ju- 
ries, appeared attentive and anxious to ascer- 
tain the merits of the case, and as far as we 
could judge fi-om their verdict, seemed to be 
possessed of sufficient intelligence to insure 
the ends of justice. They are selected prin- 
cipally from the older settlers (Nova Scotians 
and Maroons) and in some few instances from 
the liberated Africans, The individual at 
present holding the office of coroner at Free- 
town is a Maroon. The present mayor is one 
of the early Nova Scotia settlers ; the senior 
alderman one of the early Maroon settlers." 

' A Report sent by Lieutenant Colonel Den- 
ham, dated May 21, 1827, confirms the favor- 
able account of the Commissioners, and af- 
fords incontestible evidence of the willing in- 
dustry of the negroes and their desire of im- 
proving* their condition, 

' " What the liberated Africans have felt 
the most want of, is instruction, capital and 
example. With the very little they have had 
of either, conveyed in a manner likely to bene- 
fit them generally, it is to me daily an increas- 
ing subject of astonishment that the liberated 
Africans settled here have done so much for 
themselves as they have. I have not observed 
any disinclination for voluntary labor ; it ap- 
pears to be a system perfectly understood and 
practised by them. Laborers' wages have va- 
ried from one shilling to sixpence per day, yet 
there has never been a deficiency of liberated 
Africans who were willing to labor for hire. 
On the naval stores now erecting are nearly 
two hundred liberated African laborers, who 
work well and steadily at twenty shillings per 
month. Laborers in this colony work from 
six in the morning till five in the afternoon 
constantly, with the exception of the hour 
which they are allowed for breakfast. An 
anxious desire to obtain and enjoy the luxu- 
ries of life is apparent in every vUlage from 
the oldest settler to the liberated African of 
yesterday. European articles of dress are the 
first objects of their desire, and for the means 
of obtaining these both sexes will cheerfully 
labor ; and a gradual improvement has taken 
place in their dwellings as they became pos- 
sessed of the necessary means for that pur- 
pose." 

'Major Ricketts writes on the 27th March, 
1829, " The liberated Africans appear happy ; 
at Wellington tliey are building by subscrip- 
tion among the inhabitants a good sized church 
and market-house of store ; and a number of 
private store buildings are springing up. The 
manager at Hastings is endeavoring to erect 



new bridges with tlic worlanen and others of 
the village who labor and furnish materials 
gratis. Several of the liberated Africans who 
have obtained lots of land in Freetown, have 
built good houses. Many of them and of the 
disbanded soldiers employ themselves in the 
burning of lime, sawing of boards, cutting 
sliingles and clapboards ; all of which are car- 
ried for miles from the spot where they are 
prepared to their villages, and from thence 
either brought to Freetown by land, or by 
water in canoes which are kept and hired out 
for that purpose by the liberated Africans re- 
siding in villages on the banks of the river or 
on the sea coast. In return for these articles 
they generally receive cash Avhich is not kept 
dormant ; for with that they purchase cattle 
from the natives trading to the colony, and 
taking them to the country villages, they are 
fattened and afterwards sent to the market, 
and a profit of nearly one hundred per cent, 
is realised by this species of industry. Pigs 
and poultry are raised in the villages, and the 
market of Freetown receives from them an 
ample supply daily of this kind of stock as 
well as of eggs and vegetables. Some of the 
persons supplying the market are known to 
travel from Waterloo and Hastings, the former 
being twenty-two and the latter sixteen miles 
from Freetown, carrying their produce in bas- 
kets on their heads ; this kind of industry 
clearly manifests the desire the liberated Af- 
ricans have to labor voluntarily to enable them 
by honest means to become possessed of those 
luxuries which they see their more wealthy 
brethren enjoying. The police of the villages 
is administered by the liberated Africans ; they 
have given evident proof of their affection for 
the laws as they are administered, by the in- 
terest they show in implicitly obeying them ; 
and when it has been found requisite to adopt 
local regulations particularly affecting them, 
they have cheerfully conformed to them. So 
very useful are the liberated Africans found 
in the rafting and cutting of timber, and saw- 
ing boards, and scantling, that many of them 
are receiving fi'om four to five dollars per 
month with food and clothing. The schools 
for the admission of children born in the col- 
ony are still progressively improving, and the 
parents evince an anxious desire to avail 
themselves of the opportunity afforded them 
of obtaining useful instruction for their chil- 
dren.' 



NOBLE SENTIMENTS. 
'I am for speedy, immediate abolition. I 
care not what caste, creed or color, slavery 
may assume. I am for its total, its instant 
abolition. Whether it be personal or political, 
mental or corporeal, intellectual or spiritual, I 
am for its immediate abolition. I enter into 
no compromise with slavery ; I am for justice, 
in the name of humanity and according to the 
law of the living God.' — O^Connell. 



28 



Meeting of the Free People of Color in jYew- York. 



MEETING OF THE EREE PEOPLE 
OF COLOR. 

Agreeably to public notice, a larse and re- 
spectable meeting of the free people of color, 
called by the New- York Society, auxiliary to 
the Convention of the Free People of Color, 
for their improvement in these United States, 
assembled in the Abyssinean Baptist Church, 
in Anthony Street, on Wednesday Evening, 
December 26, 1832 : 

When, on motion, Mr. Samuel Hardenburgh 
was elected Chairman, and Hznrij Sipkins ap- 
pointed Secretary. 

After some preliminary remarks by the 
Chairman, at his request, the meeting was 
opened with an appropriate prayer, by the 
Rev. Jas. Hayborn, (the pastor of the church.) 

Mr. Thomas L. Jennings stated, that among 
the leading matters which would occupy the 
attention of the meeting, v/ere several impor- 
tant documents lately received from Europe, 
expressive of the sentiments that a very con- 
siderable portion of the people of the British 
Empire entertained respecting the deplorable 
situation of the colored people in the United 
States, Having made some excellent remarks 
on the conviction many of them entertained, 
that the American Colonization Society was 
the cause of a most cruel persecution of the 
free people of color, as well as of its insuffi- 
ciency, if not its want of inclination, to any 
considerable extent, to lessen the intermina- 
ble bondage of the slaves ; he read the letter 
of Mr. James. Cropper, of England, to Mr. 
Thomas Clarkso7i, [one of the most strenuous 
abolitionists of that country) on the improprie- 
ty of patronizing the Colonization Society. 

Copious extracts were also read from various 
other foreign documents, and listened to with 
much attention. Particular interest was exci- 
ted upon the reading of apart of the speech of 
the Honorable Daniel 0''Connell, delivered at 
the Anniversary meeting of the London Anti- 
Slavery Society held in Exeter Hall, May 12th, 
18.32. Some observations on the character of 
Mr. O'Connell as a philanthropist, were made, 
and the following resolutions offered and unan- 
imously adopted, viz : 

Resolved, That we highly apprsciate the un- 
deviating exertions of the friends of humanity 
in these United States, and in Great Britain, 
in the sacred cause of emancipation, and that 
they are entitled to our greatest respect and 
most sincere thanks. 

Resolved, That we recognize in the Honora- 
ble Daniel O'ConneZZ, of Ireland, the champion 
of religious liberty, the uncompromising advo- 
cate of universal emancipation, the friend of 
the oppressed Africans and their descendants, 
a.nd of the unadulterated rights of man. 

Resolved, That we regret that we are unable 
to make suitable returns for the disinterested 
friendship that he has manifested towards the 
cause of liberty and eqality, to the terror of the 
traffickers in human flesh and blood ; and that 



we should consider ourselves unworthy th^ 
sympa,thies of the liberals, and traitors to our 
cause, if we should withhold this public expres- 
sion of our respectful gratitude. 

Resolved, That we tender to the Hon. Dan- 
iel O'Connelx our sincere thanks and respect 
for his great exertions in the cause of the op- 
pressed, — hoping that when his labors of be- 
nevolence shall be finished on earth, — when 
the oppressor shall cease from his oppression^ 
— he may receive the heavenly reward of Him 
who holds in his hands the destinies of 
nations. 

Resolved, That an address be prepared to 
accompany the above resolutions, and that the 
same be forwarded to Mr. O'Connell with all 
convenient despatch. 

Resolved, That the above resolutions be 
published in as many of the papers friendly to 
the cause of emancipation as practicable, sign^ 
ed by the Chairman and Secretary. 

On motion, Messrs. Samuel Hardenburgh^ 
Thomas L. Jennings, and Henry Sipkins, were 
appointed a committee to prepare the Address^ 
and to attend to the publication of the forego- 
ing resolutions. 

In the course of the evening, the proclama- 
tion of General Jackson to the free people of 
color, on the banks of the Mobile, during the 
last war, was read ; several extracts fi-om the 
reports of the Colonization Society ; and the 
address of the free people of color, held in the 
Boyer Lodge Room, in the city of New York^ 
January 25th, 1831. 

Throughout the meeting a very general dis- 
like to the proceedings of the Colonization So- 
ciety manifested itself. The audience was 
admonished, that the support of the convention 
was among the means of counteracting the pol- 
icy of that society. 

A number became members of the Society 
by which the meeting was called. 

Samuel Hardenburgh, Chairman. 

Henry Sipkins, Secretary. 

In relation to the above proceedings, the 
New- York Journal of Commerce says : 

' We publish in another column, a series of 
resolutions adopted by a meeting of free people 
of color recently held in this city. It is a fact 
which we are unable to explain on any satis- 
factory principle, that the free people of color 
in the Northern States are, as a body, strong- 
ly opposed to the objects of the American Col- 
onization Society. Whether it be that they 
are afraid their influence will be weakened by 
any deduction from their numbers, or whether 
they suppose that the Liberians are less pros- 
perous, independent and happy than them- 
selves, we ^re unable to say.' 

The people of color are opposed to the 
Colonization Society because it slanders and 
persecutes them, and perpetuates slavery, and be- 
cause they love America better than Africa. 



Professor Greoi's Ltlier to Rev. Simeon S. Jocelyn. 



yy 



LIGHT IN THE WEST ! 
Extracts from a letter addressed to Rev. S. 
S. JocKiiYN, of New-Haven, Connecticut, by 
Beriah Green, Professor of Sacred Litera- 
ture in Western Reserve College, dated — 

Hudson, [Port. Co. O.) Mv. 5, 1832. 
Rev. and Dear Sir : 

A great change has, within a few months, 
been wrought in the views and movements of 
some of the gentlemen connected with this 
College, both as intructors and students, res- 
pecting the ground occupied by the American 
Colonization Society, and the tendency of the 
principles avowed, and the course pursued, by 
that institution. In a single word, the Presi- 
dent of the College, Rev. Charles B. Storrs, 
a gentleman well known and highly esteemed 
on many accounts in New-England as well 
as in Ohio, Eliznr Wright, Jr. Professor of 
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, whose 
reputation as a gentleman, a scholar, and a 
christian, is elevated, if I mistake not, at Yale 
College ; Elizur Wright, Esq- of Tallmadge, 
a Trustee of this College, and an early grad- 
uate of Yale, whose reputation as a scholar 
and a christian I need not describe, and some 
others, have, upon examining the matter in 
discussion between the abolitionists and anti- 
abolitionists, yielded to the conviction that the 
former occupy the only ground, which the Bi- 
ble can justly be regarded as approving and 
sustaining. These gentleman have been 
brought to this conviction, not without many 
struggles and much reluctance. They had 
been ardent friends and prompt patrons of the 
American Colonization Society ; had labored 
to sustain its claims to public patronage by 
their authority, their eloquence, and their pur- 
ses. They now feel, and feel very deeply 
too, that they had been blinded by a strange 
prejudice, which had the effect of infatuation 
on their minds. They have opened their eyes 
upon an object which has taken fast hold of 
their whole souls. They feel themselves im- 
pelled by motives which they cannot and 
would not resist, to give ' arm and soul' to the 
cause of African emancipation. They are 
now making the inquiry with unwonted solici- 
tude — ' Lord, what wilt thou have us to do ?Z.f^ .- . 

A good deal of interest has been awakened oegmnmg to awake 
in the College among the students, on the ^ °^^^"^ ^^ ^' 

subject of African emancipation. The matter 
has, in different forms and on various occa- 
sions, been pretty thoroughly discussed. A 
number of the students take the ground main- 
tained by the New-England Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety. We hope the number may increase. 
Mr. StoiTS has been almost universally — per- 
baps I need not qualify the expression by any 
such word as almost — regarded as preeminent 
for soundness of judgment, warmth of piety, 
force of mind, and general attractiveness of 
character. The posture which he has taken 



on the subject of this letter cannot, we think, 
fail of setting hundreds a-thinking. Professor 
Wright has Avritten a good many very able 
columns for the Observer & Telegraph — the 
religious paper of the Western Reserve; and 
would have continued to write, had he not been 
denied the farther use of this medium of work- 
ing on the public mind. He is an attractive, 
powerful writer. His Avhole soul is engaged ; 
and I think no human agency can beathUji-off 
the ground which he has taken^^iVVe need 
the sympatliy and aid of tlie friends of this 
good cause in New-England. We want facts 
— facts — facts. 

One copy of Mi-. Garrison's ' Thoughts ' has 
reached us, and we take a few copies of his 
admirable paper. Charles Stuart's last pamph- 
let on Colonial Slavery in the West Indies, 
we have ; and the African Repository, and the 
Colonization Society Reports and Speeches, 
which we find may be made directly and pow- 
erfully subservient to the cause of African 
emancipation. Every fact on this subject will 
be estimated here at its full worth. ■ Will you, 
as the friend of poor, persecuted, trodden down 
Africa, help us ? We much wish to know the 
Ijistory of the efforts which you have made in 
the cause of wretched humanity in New-Haven 
and elsewhere. 

Your letter to Mr. Gurley I thank you for, 
and wish I had 500 or 1,000 copies of it for 
cu'culation. Things in Maine and Massachu- 
setts, I should think, were assuming a brighter 
aspect. Mr. Ganison's reception in Maine 
could not but have been highly encouraging. 
Our British brethren, too, the Lord Jesus bless 
them. 

We have here a great struggle to go through 
with, if the Saviour will help us. The strength 
of public prejudice, as such openly avoived ! is 
awaking. We have, however, a calm and deep 
conviction that we are right, and that God 
will help us. This hope we cling to as the 
anchor of our souls. O, may we not forfeit its 
high consolations — its sustaining, exhilarating 
influence ! rWe~liope before many days to 
bring our little forces together in the form of 
an Anti-Slavery Society. Pray for us, dear 
brethren, as I hope we do for you — and for all 
who are consecrated to the great and glorious 
design, to which, ' after so long a time,' we are 



the Lord Jesus, 

BERIAH GREEN. 



[We seize this opportunity to acknowledge 
the pleasure we have felt, in perusing the mas- 
terly essays of Professor Wright, published in 
the Hudson Observer & Telegraph. As that 
paper has most unfairly refused to insert any 
more of his articles on African Colonization, 
we earnestly entreat him to make 'The Abo- 
litionist ' the medium of his valuable com- 
munications to the public : they will have a 
wide circulation.! 



30 Constitution of the Anti-Slavery Society. — Slavenj in the British Colonies. 



CONSTITUTION OF THE NEW-ENGLAND 
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

PREAMBLE. 
Wliereas, we believe that Slavery is contrary to the 
precepts of Christianity, dang-erous to the liberties of 
the country, and ought immediately to be abolished ; 
•and whereas, we believe that the citizens of New-Eng- 
land not only have the right to protest against it, but 
are under the highest obligation to seek its removal by 
moral influence ; and whereas, we believe that the 
free people of color are unrighteously oppressed, and 
stand in need of our sympathy and benevolent co-ope- 
ration ; therefore, recognizing the inspired declaration 
that God ' hath made of one blood all nations of men 
for to dwell on all the face of the earth,' and in obe- 
dience to our Saviour's golden rule, ' all things whatso- 
ever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even 
,so to them,' we agree to form ourselves into a Society, 
and to be governed by the following 

CONSTITUTION. 

Article 1. This Society shall be called the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society. 

Art. 2. The objects of the Society shall be, to en- 
deavor, by all means sanctioned by law, humanity and 
religion, to effect the abolition of slaverj' in the United 
States ; to improve the character and condition of the 
free people of color, to inform and correct public opin- 
ion in relation to their situation and rights, and obtain 
/or them equal civil and political rights and privileges 
;with the whites. 

Art. 3. Any person by signing the Constitution, and 
•paying to the Treasurer fifteen dollars as a life sub- 
scription, or two dollars annually, shall be considered 
: a member of the Society, and entitled to a copy of all 
, its official publications. 

Art. 4. The officers of the Society shall be a Presi- 
dent, Vice Presidents, a Corresponding Secretary, 
,a Recording Secretary, a Treasurer, and ten Counsel- 
lors, who shall be elected annually, by ballot, on the 
fourth Wednesday of January, or subsequently bj' ad- 
journment, and shall hold their respective offices until 
others are chosen. 

Art. 5. The foregoing officers shall constitute a 
Board of Managers, to whom shall be entrusted the 
disposition of the funds, and the management of the 
■ concerns of the Society. They shall have power to 
make their own by-laws, to fill any vacancy which may 
occur in their Board, and to employ agents to promote 
the objects of the Society. 

Art. 6. There shall be a public meeting of the So- 
"ciety annually, on the third Wednesday of January, at 
-which the Board of Managers shall make a Report of 
'their doings for the past year, and of the income, ex- 
•penditures, and funds of the Society. 

Art. 7. The President shall preside at all meetings 
of the Society and of the Board of Managers, or in his 
absence one of the Vice Presidents, or in their absence 
a President pro tem. 

Art. 8. The Corresponding Secretary shall receive 
and keep all communications or publications directed 
to the Society, and transmit those issued by them, and 
shall correspond with the agents, or any other bodies 
or individuals, according to the directions of the Socie- 
ty or the Managers. 

Art. 9. The Recording Secretary shall notify all 
meetings of the Society and of the Board of Managers, 
and keep the records of the same. 

Art. 10. The Treasurer shall collect the subscrip- 
tions and donations to the Society, hold all its funds, 
and make payments according to the directions of the 
Managers ; and he shall keep a true account of the 
same, and render a statement, to accompany the An- 
nual Report of the Society. 

Art. 11. Any Anti-Slavery Society, or any asso- 
ciation founded on kindred principles, may become 
auxiliary to this Society, by contributing to its funds, 
^nd may communicate with us by letter or delegation. 



Art. 12. The Society shall hold meetings on the 
last Monday of March, June and September, for the 
transaction of any business which may be presented by 
the Board of Managers, or for addresses, or for discus- 
sion of any subject comiected with the objects of the 
Society. Special meetings of the Society may be call- 
ed by the Board of Managers, or by the Recording 
Secretary, on application from ten members of the So- 
ciety. 

Art. 13. This Constitution may be altered at the 
Annual Meeting for the choice of officers, provided the 
amendments proposed to be made, have been submit- 
ted to the Board of Managers, in writing, one month 
previous. 

A STATEMENT OF THE FRIGHTFUL DECREASE 

OF THE SLAVE POPULATION IN THE SUGAR 

COLONIES OF GREAT BRITAIN. 

^Drawn up from Official Returns by T. F. Buxton-I 



Antigua 


Decrease 


in 11 


years 


868 


Berbice 


do 


9 


do 


1,844 


Demerara 


do 


12 


do 


12,037 


Grenada 


do 


12 


do 


2,697 


Jamaica 


do 


12 


do 


18,024 


Montserrat 


do 


11 


do 


131 


Nevis 


do 


11 


do 


192 


St. Christopher's 


do 


10 


do 


1000 


St. Lucia 


do 


13 


do 


1,942 


St. Vincent's 


do 


10 


do 


1,248 


Tobago 
TortoTa 


do 


10 


do 


2,803 


do 


10 


do 


143 


Trinidad 


do 


13 


do 


6,168 



Decrease in the above thirteen Colonies, the average 
being 11 1-13 years, 48,097 

Mauritius Decrease in 10 3-4 years 10,767 













58,864 


Deduct. 


Increase 


in 


the 


two following 


Colonies, 


VIZ : — 












Dominica 
Barbadoes 






in 
in 


9 years 
12 years 


11 

6,966 
5,977 



Total decrease in the Slave population in the Sugar 
Colonies, on an average of eleven years, 62,887 



LATEST RETURN OF THE SLAVE POPULATION 
IN THE BRITISH COLONIES. 



Colonies. 


Years. 


Men. 


Women. 


Totals. 


Antigua 


1828 


14,066 


16,773 


29,839 


Barbadoes 


1829 


37,691 


44,211 


81,902 


Berbice 


1828 


11,284 


10,035 


21,319 


Demerara 


1829 


37,141 


32,326 


69,467 


Dominica 


1826 


7,.362 


8,030 


15,392 


Grenada 


1829 


11,711 


12,434 


24,145 


Jamaica 


1829 


158,254 


164,167 


322,421 


Montserrat 


1828 


2,867 


3,396 


6,262 


Nevis 


1826 


4,574 


4,685 


9,259 


St. Christopher's 


1827 


9,198 


10,112 


19,310 


St. Lucia 


1828 


6,280 


7,381 


13,661 


St. Vincent's 


1827 


11,583 


12,006 


23,589 


Tobago 
Trinidad 


183o 


5,872 


6,684 


12,556 


1828 


13,141 


10,866 


24,006 


Tortola 


1828 


2,510 


2,889 


5,399 




333,534 


344,993 


678,527 


Mauritius 


1826 


47,667 


29,117 


76,774 


Totals 


381,191 


374,110 


765,301 



IFhile and Black Population of the Slave States. 



31 



[From the Western Luminary.] 
Pursuant to the request of the Fayette 
County Colonization Society, I furnish the 
statistical tables used by me. In the cal- 
culations there may be some very inconsider- 
able inaccuracy ; they were made early last 
fall, and have not been since revised. If there 
is any inaccuracy, it is too inconsiderable to 
make a material difference in the result. 

DANIEL MAYES. 

TABLE shewing the relative increase of 
Blacks and Whites, from 1820 to 1830. 

MARYLAND. 

1820. 1830. 

White 260,219 291,093=11 2-3 per cent. 

Black 147,128 155,820=6 per cent. 

Slaves decreased from 107,398 to 102,876. Free 
Black increase from 39,730 to 52,942=33 1-3 per cent. 

VIRGINIA. 

White 603,074 694,445=15 per cent. 

Black 462,042 516,817=12 3-4 per cent. 

Free Black from 36,889 to 47,103=27 2-3 per cent. 



GEORGIA. 



White 
Black 



189,566 
151,419 



296,614=56 1-2 per cent. 
219,890=45 3-4 per cent. 



NORTH CAROLINA. 

White 419,200 472,433=10 1-2 

Black 219,629 266,037=21 

Free Black, 35 per cent. 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

White 237,440 257,875=8 1-2 

Black 165,299 323,570=22 

White increase 20,435. Black increase 58,571. 



White 
Black 



White 
Black 

White 
Black 



White 
Black 



ALABAMA. 

85,451 180,171=122 1-2 
42,446 119,035=140 1-6 

MISSISSIPPI. 

70,618=67 1-3 



42,176 
33,272 



72,383 
79,540 



66,188=99 
LOUISIANA. 

89,379=21 3-4— gain 15,996 
126,412=59— gain 46,872 



TENNESSEE. 

339,295 537,930=58 1-3 

82,836 146,898=78 1-3 



KENTUCKY. 

White 434,644 518,678=19 1-3 
Black 129,451 170,166=39 

Increase free Blacks from 2,759 to 4,816=75 per ct. 

MISSOURI. 
White 55,988 114,552=104 1-2 

Black 10,569 25,532=132 

ARKANSAS. 

Free pop. B. and W. 14,273 30,383=200 
Slaves 1,617 4,578=270 2-3 

FLORIDA. 

1830. Total, 34,723.— Slaves, 15,510. Nearly half 
Slaves. 

II. Table exhibiting the relative average in- 
crease of the different classes from 1820 to 
1830, in Maryland, Virginia, JVorth Car- 
olina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, 



Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee, Ken- 
tucky, Missouri. 

1820. 1830. 

Free White 2,741,166 3,533,788=28 1-2 per cent. 

Black 1,624,069 2,236,36.5=36 1-2* 

Free Black 117,178 158,719=35 1-2 

///. Table showing the relative strength of the 
Jfliite and Black population, at the close oj 
each successive tenyears, to the end of the pres- 
ent century, supposing the rate of increase to 
continue in the same ratio as during the last 
ten. 

1840 W. 4,523,248 B. 3,041,4.56 
1850 W. 5,789,737 B. 4,136,380 
1860 W. 7,131,863 B. 6,625,476 
1870 W. 9,129,770 B. 9,010,647 
1880 W. 11,696,110 B. 12,454,451 
1890 W. 14,967,420 B. 16,910,853 
1900 W. 18,158,297 B. 22,898,700 

Blacks exceed Whites by 4,741,166. 

IV. Table exhibiting the relative strength of 
Black and JVhite population in 1790 and 
1830, in Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, 
JVorth Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia. 

1790. 1830. 
White 1,777,357 2,531,138 1790 2 1-4 W. to 1 B. 
Black 582,023 1,552,318 1830 1 1-4 W. to 1 B. 

V. Table shoiving loeight of population per 
square mile in Maryland, Virginia, JVorth 
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alaba- 
ma, Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee, Ken- 
tucky, Missouri, and ivhat it will he in 1900, 
if increase at the same ratio. 

No. sq. ms. 501,333: pop. 1830. 5,770,153=11 1-2 pr. m. 

pop. 1900. 41,056,997=81 9-10 

Black pop. 1900. 22,898,700=45 1-2 pr. m. 

Exceeding the present rate of population of any 

State in the Union but two, and =: to that of Kentucky, 

multiplied by 3 3-4. 

VI. Table shoiving the comparative longevity 

of Whites and Blacks. 
According to the Census of 1830, there were upwards 
of one hundred years old in the U. States — 
White males 297 Females 234 

Male slaves 717 Female 662 

Male free B. 382 Female 359 

Male Blacks 1090 Female 1021 

Total— White, 531. Total— Black, 2120. 



LIBERAL DONATION. 
John Kenrick, Esq. of Newton, the vete- 
ran advocate of universal emancipation, has 
recently paid over to the New-England Anti- 
Slavery Society the sum of One Hundred 
Dollars, as a part of the fund about to be 
raised by the Society for the establishment of 
a Manual Labor School for the instruction of 
Colored Youth, This esteemed friend, a few 
months since, made a donation to the Society 
of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars, to 
promote its benevolent objects. 



* While this sheet is going through the press, we 
notice an error in this number, which affects the 3d ta- 
ble, but have neither time nor space to correct it. 



32 Letter from, an Infant Slave to the Child of its Mistress. — The Sugar-Plums. 



[From the Liberator.] 
LETTER 

FROM AN INFANT SLAVE TO THE CHILD OF ITS 
MISTRESS. BOTH BORN ON THE SAME DAY. 

Baby ! be not surprised to see 

A few short lines coming from me, 

Addressed to you ; 
For babies black of three months old 
May write as well, as I 've been told, 

Some white ones do.* 

There are some things I hear and see, 
Which very much do puzzle me, 

Pray don't they you ? 
For the same day our lives begun. 
And all things here beneath the sun. 

To both are new. 

Baby, sometimes I hear you cry. 
And many run to find out why. 

And cure the pain ; 
But when I cry from pains severe, 
There 's no one round who seems to hear, 

I cry in vain. 

E.\cept it be when she is nigh, 
Whose gentle love, I know not why. 

Is all for me ; 
Her tender care soothes all my pain. 
Brings to my face those smiles again^ 

She smiles to see. 

With hunger faint, with grief distressed, 
I once my wretchedness expressed^ 

With urgent power; 
Some by my eloquence annoyed. 
To still my grief rough blows employed, — 
Oh dreadful hour ! 

When first thy father saw his child, 
With hope and love and joy he smiled. 

Bright schemes he planned; 
Mine groaned, and said with sullen brow. 
Another slave is added now 

To this free land. 

Why am I thought so little worth. 
You prized so highly from your birth ? 

Tell, if you know : 
Why are my woes and joys as nought, 
With careful love yours shunned or sought ? 

Why is it so ? 

My own dear mother, it is true, 
Loves me as well as yours does you ; 

But when she 's gone, 
^ None else to me a care extends ; 
Oh why have you so many friends, 

I only one ? 

Why must that one be sent away. 
Compelled for long, long hours to stay 

Apart from me ? 
I think as much as I she mourns, 
And is as glad when she returns, 

Her child so see. 

One day I saw my mother weep, 
A tear fell on me when asleep, 

And made me wake ; 
Not for herself that tear was shed. 
Her own woes she could bear, she said, 

But for my sake. 

She could not bear, she said, to think 
That I the cup of wo must drink. 
Which she had drunk ; 



That from my cradle to my grave, 
I too must live a wretched slave, 
Degraded, sunk. 

Her words 1 scarcely understood, 
They seemed to speak of little good. 

For coming years ; 
But joy with all my musings blends, 
And infant thought not far extends 

Its hopes and fears. 

I ponder much to comprehend 
What sort of beings, gentle friend, 

We 've got among; 
Some things in my experience, 
Do much confound my budding sense 

Of right and wrong. 

Baby, I love you; 't is not right 

To love you less because you 're white ; 

Then surely you 
Will never learn to scorn or hate 
Whom the same Maker did create 

Of darker hue. 

Beneath thy pale uncolored skin, 
As warm a heart may beat within. 

As beats in me. 
Unjustly I will not forget. 
Souls are not colored white or jet, 

In thee or me. 

Your coming of the tyrant race, 
I will not think in you disgrace. 

Since not your choice ; 
If you 're as just and kind to me, 
Through all our lives why may not we 

In love rejoice ? E. T. C. 



* See in the Juvenile Miscellanj', a letter from an 
infant in Charleston, (S. C.) to her cousin in Massa- 
chusetts. 



[From the Genius of Universal Emancipation.] 
THE SUGAR-PLUMS. 

No, no, pretty sugar-plums ! stay where you are ! 
Though my grandmother sent you to me from so far ; 
You look very nice, you would taste very sweet. 
And I love you right well, yet not one will I eat. 

For the poor slaves have labored, far down in the south. 
To make you so sweet, and so nice for my mouth ; 
But I want no slaves toiling for me in the sun. 
Driven on with the whip, till the long day is done. 

Perhaps some poor slave-child that hoed up the ground. 
Round the cane in whose rich juice your sweetness was 

found, 
Was flogged till his mother cried sadly to see, 
And I'm sure I want nobody beaten for me. 

So grandma, I thank you for being so kind, 
But your present to-day is not much to my mind; 
Tho' I love you so dearly, I choose not to eat 
Ev'n what you have sent me, by slavery made sweet. 

Thus said litde Fanny, and skipped off to play, 
Leaving all her nice sugar-plums just where they lay; 
As merry as if they had gone in her mouth. 
And she had not cared for the slaves of the south. 

MARGARET. 

tO' The Treasurer of the New-England Anti-Sla- 
very Society acknowledges the receipt of Fifteen 
Dollars from Mr. Prince Farmer of Salem, to 
constitute him a Life Member of the Society. Also, 
Thirty Four Dollars from Mr. Ebenezer Dole 
of Hallowell — Fifty Dollars from Mrs. Sarah H- 
WiNSLOW, and Fifteen Dollars from Mrs. C- 
WiNSLOW, both of Portland. 



