re^. ssys.^i ^^.^;l 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportofselectco1836unit 



REPORT 



SELECT COMMITTEE 



VPOK THE SUBJECT 



OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 



HAPE BT 



HON. M. E.. FIA^CKi^^EY, 



HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MAY 18, J 836. 



TO WHICH IS' APPENDED 



VOTES IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

rPOX TEB 

SEVERAL RESOLUTIONS WITH WHICH 
THE REPORT CONCLUDES. 



WASHiKGTOJf: 

•»e»::":::!;»: 
1^€. 



cesssi^^s-i ^o.p?^ 



E P R T. 



SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF CO- 
LUMBIA. 



CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES. 
In the House of Representatives, 

FebrvMry 8, 1836. 
Resolved, That all the memorials which have 
been offered, or maj'^ hereafter be presented to this 
House, praying for the abolition of slavery in the 
District of Columbia; and, also, the i-esohitions 
offered by an honorable member from Maine, (iMr. 
Jarvis,) with the amendment thereto proposed by an 
honorable member from Virginia (Mr. Wise); to- 
gether with every other paper or proposition that 
may be submitted in relation to the subject, be re- 
ferred to a Select Committee, with instructions to 
report : 

That Congress possesses no constitutional au- 
thority to interfere, in any M'ay, with the mstitution 
of slavery in any of the States of this Confederacy; 
and 

That, in the opinion of this House, Congress- 
ought not to interfere, in any v/ay, with slavery in 
the District of Columbia, because it would be a 
violation of public faith, unwise, impolitic, and 
dangerous to the Union. Assigningsuch reasons for 
these conclusions as, in the judgment of the com- 
mittee, may be best calculated to enlighten the pub- 
lic mind, to allay excitement, to repress agitation, 
to secure and maintain the just rights of the slave- 
holding States, and of the people of this District, 
•and to restore harmony and tranquillity among the 
various sections of this Union. 

Mr. PiNCKNEY of South Carolina, 
Mr. Hamer of Ohio, 
Mr. Pierce of New Hampshire, 
Mr. Hardin of Kentucky, 
Mr. Jarvis of Maine. 
Mr. Cv.'Exs of Georgia, 
Mr. Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania, 
^Tr. Dromuoole of Virginia, and 
Mr. Turrii.l, of New York, 
were a^^pointed a committee in pursuance of the 
resolution. 

Attest : W. S. FRANKLIN, Clerk. 

REPORT OF MR. PINCKNEY. 

The Sekcl CmnviiUce, appoinled under the following 
resohttion of the Hmise of Representatives of the 
United Stol£s, of the »th of February, lS36,"ri,r .• 
"Resolved, That all tlie memorials v-hich have 
been offered, or m,ay Iw.reafter be ipresented to this 
House, pro.ying for tlie abolition of sla.very in the 
District of Columbia. ; a,nd, also the resolutions 
offered by an hono'rable member from MaAne, (^Mr. 
Jarvis,) vnth the ajnendmeni thereto 2>roposed by an 



honorable member from Virginia {Mr. Wise); to- 
gether with every-other paper or proposition that 
may be submitted in relation to this subject, be re- 
ferred to a Select Committee, with instructions to 
report : That Congress possesses no constitutional 
authority to interfere, in any way, with the insti- 
tution of slavery in OMy of the States of this Con- 
federacy ; and that, in the opinion of this House, 
Congress ought not to interfere, in any ivay,- tcith 
slavery in the District of Columbia, because it 
v;ould be a violation of the public faith, umHse, 
impolitic, and dangerous to the Union : assigning 
such reasons for these conclusions as, in the fadg- 
ment of the committee, may be best calculated to en- 
lighten the public mind, to allay excitement, to 
repress agitation, to secure and maintain the just' 
rights of the slaveholding Slates, and of the people 
of this District, and to restore harmony and tran- 
quillity amongst the various sections of this 
Union ;" respectfully submit the following report, 
in tchich they have u7ianimously concurred : 
The subject referred is one of grave import. 
Your committee approach it with a deep sense of 
its magnitude and absorbing interest. They have 
long considered the movements in relation to this 
matter as fraught with incalculable evils, not only 
to the slaveholding States, but to every portion of 
our common country. They rejoice, therefore, that 
the great body of the people of the non-slavehold- 
ing States have come forward, as they have done, 
in the true spirit of American palrioiism, to sustain ' 
their constitutional obligations to their Southern 
brethern, and to arrest the disturbance of the public 
peace. They rejoice paiticularly, that the Federal 
Legislature, acting under a deep sense of its re- 
sponsibility to the nation, has also interposed its 
warning voice, and given a solemn expression of 
its judgment upon this exciting subject; and they 
feel assured, that a.s the Representatives have re- 
sponded to the people, so the people will firmly and 
patriotically sustain the posiiion now takeii by 
their Representatives. 

As moderation is essential to the discovery of 
truth, your committee will carefully abstain from 
every thing that may cau<e offence, or inflame ex- 
citement, in any section of the Union. But while 
they would make every allowance for the inotii'es 
of individuals, where the objects contemplated are 
utterly desti uctive to society, thcy^cannot too strong- 
ly express their comlemnation oi" the conduct of the 
abolitionists, and their utter abhorrence of the coa- 
sequeuces to which, if persisted in, it must inevita- 
bly lead. T'ipy feel assured that no man, or set oC 
men, will be pcrmiUed to put ihe country and the 
Government at defiance, by persevering in machi- 
nations wiicli threaten to bring the citizens of the 



tlifierent States into collision, and to overthrow the 
whole system of civil society itself, in the slave- 
holdmg portions of the Union. Your committee 
believe that the strength of the agitators has been 
greatly exaggerated, by themselves and others; but 
whether their number be small or great, there can 
be no doubt that the\' have done, and are doing, in- 
calculable evil; and every true patriot must be 
aware that a crisis has now arrived in the political 
condition of the country, in which neutrality would 
be criminal, and in which he must determine be- 
tAveen the suppression of abolition, and the destruc- 
tion of the Union, and take his stand accordingly, 
for or against his country. 

Your commiUee have learned Avith surprise, that 
the referrence of this subject has caused dissatis- 
faction in certain portions of the South. While 
they deeply regret this circumstance, they beg 
leave to remark, that it is not only abundantly jus- 
tiiied by precedent, but in entire accordance with 
the established usage and invariable policy, in re- 
laiicnto matters of tius character; memorials pray- 
ing for the abolition of slavery in the States, or in 
the District of Columbia, having always been 
citlier referred or laid upon the table. On the pe- 
^cnt occasion, the subject was referred for the ex- 
press purpose of having a report '"calculated to sus- 
tain tJie just rights of the slaveholding States, and 
of the people of this District, and "by allaying ex- 
citement, and repressing agitation, to insure the 
future repose and periiiaEent tranquillity of the 
€(waitry. The House was unwilling, on the one 
side, to invade what was believed to be the rir<ht of 
petition, [a right equally dear to every portion of 
our people, and which, it is thought, could not have 
been denied in this instance, without establishing a 
precedent at least as hazardous to the South, as to 
a:ay other section of the Union] ; and it was desir- 
ous, en the other, to accomplish for the South, 
what could not have been elfected by refusing to 
receive the memorials, the union of an overwhehn- 
ang majority, in a solemn and determined stand 
-figainst the views and objects of the applicants. 
Whilst the denial of the right of petition could 
have produced none other than the most mischiev- 
cus effects, your committee are thoroughly satisfied 
that the course adopted by the House will produce 
a state of public opinion ajid feeling in the non- 
i-.Javeholding Slates, eminently favorable to the con- 
stitutional rights and interests of the slaveholding 
sections of the Union. 

The resolution imder Avhich your committee 
were appointed, naturally divides i tself into several 
"branches or propositions, each of which shall be 
•considered in its order. 

They are instructed to report, in the first place — 

ThatXI^ongress possesses no constitutional autho- 
rity to interfere in any v/ay with the institution of 
slavery, in any of the States of this Confederacy. 

Yonr commiUee will merely allude to this pro- 
^posiiion, ill obedience to the express direction given 
nhem by the House, and not for the purpose of en- 
tering into any argument respecting it. Unques- 
tionably, if there is any political or constitutional 
pfinciple,' which the people of the United States 
consider as settled beyond all possible dispute or 
■controversy, it is that the 'institution of slaverj', as 
it exists in the States of this Confederacy, is rauni- 
<ipal, not national, and that it belongs exclusively 
to the State-', and can only be attected by State le- 
■gisiatiori. The power lo regitlate or act ttpon it, is 
-cne cf the reserved vosvers of the Spates: a rcwcx" 



I which was not only not given, nor ever intended to 
be given, by the framers of the constitution, to the 
General Government, but which the States express- 
ly and carefully guarded and retained to them- 
selves, by that amendment of tliat instrument, 
(article 10) in which it is declared, that " all powers 
not delegated by the constitution to the United 
States, nor prohibited by it to the States, are re- 
served to the States respectively, or to the people." 
The subject of slavery in the States, then, is not an 
open question or matter of debate. The fact that 
Congress possesses no authority whatever to legis- 
late respecting it, is one that can neither be 
strengthened by argument, nor made clearer by 
discussion. And your committee consider it most 
fortunate for the peace of the country, that it is so. 
Fie is indeed but little acquainted Avith tlie human 
heart, and has derived but little advantage from the 
lessons of history, Avho can imagine foi» a moment, 
if he knows any thing of the general character, or 
considers the political and physical strength of the 
people of the South, that eA'en if the poAvcr of legis- 
lation on this subject had been expressly conferred 
on Congress by the constitution, it could be exer- 
cised against the consent of the States interested, 
Avithout the certainty of civil Avar, and the probable 
dissolution of the Union. The declaration, how- 
ever, which the Hotise has so solemnly and disci- 
sively made upon this point, cannot fail, as your 
committee believe, to produce the most beneficial 
results. As the abolitionists care little for emanci- 
pation in the District, except as the percursor of a 
far more extended and general scheme, the pre- 
sumption is, that having now no possible hope of 
Governmental interference with the States, and 
seeing themorethan probable consequences of the 
exercise of such a poAver, if it AA'cre possessed, they 
will discontinue their machinations in relation lo 
the District ; a consummation devoutly to be wish- 
ed by every patriot, in every section of the Union. 
But be the issue Avhat it may, the House of Re- 
presentatives has done its duty by placing this 
solemn declaration upon record. It is not only pe- 
culiarly proper in itself, considering the present 
state of the abolition question, but, if any justifica- 
tion vcere necessar}-, it is amply justified by prece- 
dent. In 1790, (and from that period to the present, 
the abolitionists haA'e steadily aimed at general 
emancipation) several petitions, praying for. the 
abolition of slaA^ery in the States, haAing been pre- 
sented and referred, the House finally a.dopted a 
resolution, amongst others, in AA^hich it annotmced 
to the petitioners, ami to the country, " that Con- 
gress has no a,uthority to interfere in the emanci- 
pation of slaves, or in the treatment of them, in any 
of the States, it remaining AA'ith the several States 
alone to provide any regulations therein, which 
humanity or policy may require.'' Upon the Avhole, 
your committee consider the instruction give« 
them by the House upon this point, rather as a de- 
cisive expression of a great fundamental principle 
of constitutiona.1 laAv, than as a call upon them to 
sustain a questionable position. They are aAvare 
that some members voted against the instruction 
upon this point, under the impression that, Avhilst 
the principle asserted is unquestionable in itself, its 
assertion by the House, in this form, might seem to 
imply doubt, and to countenance the idea that it is 
rerdlv debateable. In this view, the members who 
thus voted, mf.y be joined perhaps by roan',' iiitelli- 
gentand v.-orthy citizens of the slaveholdhig States; 
but vsur committee cannot believe that the asser- 



■tion, in any form, by the House of Representatives, 
of a principle so important, and at the same time 
of- so strong a local bearing, and particularly by a 
vote so nearly approaching unanimity as is record^ 
ed on its journal in favor of this instruction, can 
have a tendency to weaken that principle, or its 
binding and paramount influence upon Congress 
and the coumry m all time to come. The prece- 
dent above quoted from !hL- Congress of 1799, sliows 
that the House of Representatives of that day, so 
far from fearing the effect of such action upon its 
part, sought to record its solemn conviction 
upon this question of power in themselves, and 
has handed down to us its judgment, in precise 
accordance with our ovv^n. That House was 
"largely, if not entirely, composed of men of the 
revolution, and many of its members are known to 
have been aJso mem^bers of the convention which 
formed the i ederal Constitution. Since that pe- 
riod, nearly half a centary has rolled away, and 
now that the successors of that House, acting under 
the same considerations, solemnly reaffirm, the 
principle laid down b)^ those great and good men, 
and avovv it to be not only the settled opinion of this 
Congress, but of the great body of the people of the 
United States, may we not hope, and indeed con- 
clude, that it will be hereafter deemed a solemn 
•and deliberate exposition of the constitution, and 
that all attempts iti future to violate those sacred 
comprom.ises, v/hich lie at tlie very foundation of 
our constitutional compact, or to excite apprehen- 
sion on this subject, will be effectualh"" counteracted 
and defeased. Your committee cannot but indulge 
a most confident and animated hope that these good 
effects will be produced by the present action of the 
Heuse. 

Your committee are instructed to report, in the 
second place — 

That, in the opinion of this House, Congress 
ought not to interfere, in any way, v/ith slavery in 
the District of Columbia. 

1st. Because it would be a violation of the pub- 
ic faith. 

To obey this instruction of the House in the 
manner pointed out by the resolution, it -will be ne- 
cessary to examine, to some extent, the relations 
between the Federal Government and the District 
of Columbia; the probable objects of the provi- 
sion in the constitution, authorizing the cession of 
the District to tiie UnitCil States ; and the conse- 
quent expecta.tions which may have been rationally 
entertained by the Slates that made the cession, as 
to the exercise, by Congress, of the pov/ers granted 
to it over the ceded territory. Bei'ore entering upon 
this examination, however, it may be vvrell to re- 
mark that the powers of Congrcs ever this Dis- 
trict involved in this discussion, are v/holly inde- 
pendent of, and derived from a source entirely 
separate from, the gene'-il Ir^^i^lntive pov/ers grant- 
ed to Congres-; by the <■• ;; .r;, I'ui. As the legisla- 
ture of confederated S ii; . i!;c pov.-ers of Con- 
gress are eq'ial, and of universal application, 
throughout all the States, and they were given to 
Congress before the cession of the district, and 
■were he;d au'l exercised indep^---.dently thereof. 
This will be made manifest by n brief statement of 
facts. Tlie first Congress, under the constituuon, 
assembled on the 4lh of. March, 1789, and the Go- 
vernment provided for by the constitution was or- 
ganized on that (lay. The general powers confer- 
red on the different branches of the Federal Go- 
vernment were exercised from that day forward ; 
and the union of the States, under constitutional 



government, was then perfected and put in practi- 
cal operation. The ce'jsion from Virginia, of that 
portion of the District of Columbia that belonged 
to her, v/as not made until the 3d of December of 
that year — nine months after the Federal Govern- 
ment had been in opeitition ; * a.nd the ce sxon by 
Maryland of that portion of the District that be- 
longed to her, (and in v.^hich the Seat of Govern^ 
ment is in fact located,) was not made until the 19th 
day of December, 1791 + — more than two years 
and nine months after the existence of the Govern- 
ment in its present constitutional form. Congress 
did not, in fact, remove to the District thus ceded, 
nor did the District thus ceded become practically 
the Seat of Government until the year 1800 ; and 
the laws of the States by which the District was 
ceded v/eie declared, by an act of Congress of the 
16th July, 1790, t " to be in force within the District 
until the" removal of the Government to it, andam- 
tii Congress shall otherwise by law direct." 

It appears, then, that the Federal Government 
was in operation under the constitution nearly a 
year before Congress possessed any power of local 
legislation over any portion of the District of Co- 
lumbia, and nearly three years before thai power 
became as extensive as the present bounds of the 
District, or included that portion of the ten miles 
square in Avhich the Seat of Government is in fact 
located. It also appears, that the first act of the 
Federal Legislature in reference to its jurisdiction 
then partly acquired, and partly to be acquired, 
was to provide for the continuance, in ali their 
force, and in every particular, within the District, 
of ;he laws of the States that made the cession, un- 
til December, 1800 ; a period of nine years after 
tiie time v/hen the powers of Congress, as a local 
legislature for the District, were perfected by the 
State of Maijdand. Nor is this all : by the act of 
1790 it was declared, as has been already shown, 
that the laws of Maryland and Virgiriia should be 
the laws of the Dist*dct, not only " imtil the time 
fixed for the removal of the Government thereto," 
but also " until Congress shall otherwise provide" 
by law." No alteralion, however, to any consider- ' 
able extent has yet been made, and the laws of 
Virginia and Maryland which were in force at the 
time of their respective, cessions, and in force 
resy.ectively in the portions of the District ceded by 
each, still continue tobe, in almost every particular, 
the local laws of tlie District of Columbia. 

Such are the relations at present existing between 
the Federal Government and the District, so far as 
local legislation is concerned. The powers of Con- 
gress, as the local legislature of the District, were 
derived from the cessions by Virginia and Mary- 
land, and the special grant of exclusive legisla- 
tion, and not from the general pov/ers conle,rred 
upon it by the constitution; and these special and 
local powers which Congress has now possessed 
for nearly half a centiuy, have been exercised 
only to tlie extent above described; and, from the 
best information your committee have been able to 
obtain, to no other or greater extent. 

The right of Congress to accept the cession of 
this territory from the States of Virginia and 
Maryland, is found in the eighth seel ion of the fir.st 
3.rticlc ni' liie r.'diistitution'of the United States, 
Y.'liich gr ■ ii li iwer "to exerci.se exclusive le- 
gislation m all ci'.ses whatsoever over such District, 

* LawK District of Columbia, p. 59. 
tLaws District of Columbia, p. 64. 
t Laws United States, vol. ii, p< 113. 



not exceeding ten miles square, as may by cession 
of particular'' States, and the acceptance of Con- 
gress, become the Seat of Government of the United 
States ;" and the purpose for which the cession was 
to be made and received, is declared in the lan- 
guage of the constituiion itself, " such District as 
may become the Seat of Government of the United 
State?." The cession, therefore, was to be made 
for this purpose, and for no oiher ; and as regards 
its use by the Federal Government, the object of 
this provision evidently was simply to a,uthorize 
Congress to accept the grant, and to exercise the 
pov/ers of legislation therein provided for. 

It will be conceded by the committee, for the 
purpose of this report, that the cession was m^ade in 
conformity with the power of Congress to receive, 
and that, therefore, by the cession from Virginia 
and Maryland, Congress is- in possession, of the 
powers which the constiti'/aon intended it should 
possess over the district intended to be ceded. 

This brings ii,s to the inquiry, as to the probable 
objects of the grant of "exclusive legislation in all 

' cases whatsoever," over the territory which was to 
constitute the seat of Government of the United 
States. In consulting the conrmentators upon the 
consifiiution, it will be foimd that the old Congress 
encountereci inconveniences, and even dangers, 
froiXL holding their sessions where State legisla- 
tures had exclusive local jurisdiction, and vdiere 
Slate aiuhordties alone were to be depended oir in 
matters of police and personal protection. Indeed, 
an adjournment of that Congress from the State of 
Pennsylvania to New Jersey, for a cause of this 

■ description, V\diich occurred at the close of the re- 
volatioiiary war, no doubt contributed greatly to 
the introduction of this clause into the constitution 
of the Union. The proceedings of the old Con- 
gress shov.' distinctly, that the acquirement of a 
lerriuiiv for the seat of the Federal Legislature, 
ever which it siiould have exclusive or special ju- 
nsdic^ioa, was a favorite id(?a with that body, as 
early as the year 1'783, and that it continued up to 
the time of the formation of the constitution. Upon 
this point your committee will only detain the 
House with a few of the resolutions adopted by the 
old Congress that go to establish it. On the 7th of 
October, 1783, a resolution was passed, " that 
buildings for the use of Congress be erected on or 
near the banks of the Delaware,* provided a sui- 

j table district can be procured on or near the banks 
' ,.of the said river for a federal town, and that the 
right of soil, and exclusive, or such other jurisdic- 
tion as Congress may direct, shall be vested in the 
United States." On the 21st of the same month 
(October, 1783) another resolution was passed, pre- 
ceded by a preamble as follows : " Whereas there 
is reason to expect that the providing buildings for 
the alternate residence of Congress'in tw6 places 
will be productive of the most salutary effects, by 
securing the mutual confidence and affections of 
the States, Resolved, That buildings be provided 
for the use of Congress at or near'the lower falls 
of the Potomac, t or Georgelown, provided a sui- 
table district on the banks of the river can be pro- 
cured for a federal tov-n, and the right of soil, and 
an exclusive jurisdiction, or such other as Con- 
gress may direct, shall be vested in the United 
States." 



* Journals of the Old Congress, vol. iv. p. 288. 
t Journals of the Old Congress, p. 299. 



On the 20th of December, 1784, the o]d Congress 
passed, among others, the following resolutions: 

"Resolved, That it is expedient that Congress 
proceed to take measures for procuring suitable 
buildings to be erected for their accommodation. 

'■^Resolved, That it is inexpedient for Congress, 
at this ti-ne, to erect public buildings for their ac- 
commodation at more ihan one place." 

These resolutions by the continental Congress, 
as to the expedfency and iKBcessity for a territory 
for the seat of the Federal Government, over 
which it should have peculiar if not exclusive ju- 
risdiction, are produced to shov/ the origin of the 
provision in the constitution upon that subject, and 
the object ibr which the acquisition of such a terri- 
tory was desired. That object, beyond all ques- 
tion, was to secure a seat for the Federal Govern- 
ment, where the power of self-protection should be 
ample and complete, and where it might be exer- 
cised without collision or conflict with :he legisla- 
tive powers of any of the States, so far as its exer- 
cise should be required for the great national pur- 
poses for Vv'hich the peculiar or exclusive jurisdic- 
tion was sought to be obtained. The jurisdiction 
was made exclusive, not as your committee believe, 
and as they think every considerate citizen will ad- 
mit, to change the object of the grant of the juris- 
diction when it should be made, but to secure that 
object more eflectually by making the Federal Go- 
vernment independent of State interference, and 
of State protection, within the district where it was 
to be located, and where its deliberations sliould be- 
held. Had the legislative povv'er oi Congress over 
this District not been made exclusive, one of the 
great and wise objects intended to be secured, tlie 
prevention of conflict between Federal and State 
legislation, Vv'ould have been necessarily defeated. 
Every statesman will admit the extreme inconve- 
nience and danger of granting powers of legisla- 
tion of the same character, and to be exercised 
within the same territory (pov.'ers of local and mu- 
nicipal legislation,) to two distinct ?jid independent 
legislative bodies; a,nd the extreme difiiculty, if 
not im40ossibility, of so defining the portions of 
power to be exercised by each, as to prevent con- 
stant conflict and collision. This must have been 
the result, if any division of the powers of local 
legislation, within the District of Columbia, had 
been made between Congress and the States by 
which the territory was ceded to the United States, 
Congress required all that power which, through 
all time, would be indispensably ne^ essary for its 
own protection, and also to render a] I the depart- 
ments of the Federal Government independent of 
State authority, and entirely dependent on, and 
obedient to, the Federal Legislature, and it alone, 
in all matters of police or 'municipal legislation. 
The adoption of the Federal Constitution by the 
people of the several States Avith this provision in 
it, shows that the attainment of these objects was 
considered of paramount importance; and hence, 
in the judgment of your committee, the power in 
question was made exclusive. 

Assuming the correctness of these preniises, the 
next inquiry is, what expeciations were the States 
bv vrhich the District v/as ceded, as v/ell as their 
sister States, authorized to entertain as to the exer- 
cise by Congress of the legisla-tive powers derived 
from these cessions'? The cessions included not 
only a portion of (lie territory of those States, but 
also a portion of their citizens. To secure the 
great national objects intended by the cession, the 



jurisdiction of the States over those citizens, as 
■well as over the territory of the District, was trans- 
ferred to the Federal Legislature. This transfer, 
from the necessity of the case, abridged the rights 
of the citizens within the territory, who had been 
formerly entitled to vote for their legislators and 
other rulers, by subjecting tliem to a Government 
composed of persons in whose election they were 
to have no choice. Their governance, however, 
was confided to those entrusted with the common 
government of all the States ; and when we reflect 
upon the confidence reposed in Congress by the 
States thar made the transfer, and by the citizens 
transferred, it accounts at once for the readiness 
with which the cession was eifected. Still, the ques- 
tion recurs, what expectations might reasonably be 
entertained by the States making the cession, by the 
other States of the Confederacy, so far as their in- 
terests were directlj'' or indirectly involved, and by 
the citizens 'thus placed under th@ peculiar care of 
Congress, as to its exercise of the powers conferred 
upon it by this cession of territories for a seat of the 
Federal Govermnenf? 

Your committee have no hesitation to say, in an- 
swer to this inquir)'-, that those expectations, by all 
the parties interested, not only might, but must have 
been, that Congress would exercise the powers con- 
ferred, so far as their exercise should be found 
necessary for the great national objects of the ces- 
sion, with strict reference to the accomplishment of 
those objects; and that all other powers conferred 
by the cession would be exercised with an equally 
strict reference to the interests and welfare of the 
inhabitants of the District — those citizens of tv.~o 
free States vdio had been made dependent on Con- 
gress for their local legislation, for the protection 
of life, liberty, and property — rights gTiarantied by 
the constitution to a,ll the citizens of the Confede- 
racy — in order that a seat for the Federal Govern- 
ment, subject to the exclusive control of Congress, 
might be granted to it. If these positions are cor- 
rect, it follows necessarily that the institutions, the 
customs, the rights, the property, and every other 
incident pertaining to ihose citizens, and municipal 
in its character, which they enjoyed as citizens of 
the States to which they belonged before the cession 
of the District, and which did not then, and have 
not yet, interfered with the great national rights 
and privileges intended to be secured by the ces 
sion, should have been hitherto, and should be in 
all time to come, guarded and preserved with the 
same paternal care and kindness with which the 
Legislatures of the States, to which they belonged, 
would ha'.'G guarded and protected them if they 
had continued to be intrusted to their respective 
jurisdictions. 

Your committee rely confidently upon this as lli.e 
great rule for the faithful action of Congress in 
reference to this subject. They feel assured that 
no rational man will differ with them. Two ques- 
tions, then, remain to be considered, to determine 
whether Congress should or should not attemjit to 
interfere with slavery in the District of Columbia 
viz: 

L Do the great national objects which were in- 
tended to be secured to the Federal Governmeiit by 
the cession of the territory require such action on 
the part of Congress 1 

Your committee will make no argument upon so 
plain a proposition. No individual within their 
knowledge, not even the most deluded fanatic, has 
ever asked, or attempted to justify, a measure of 



this description upon such a pretext. The security 
and independence of Congress, from the moment 
of its removal to this District to the present hour, 
have been as perfect as the framers of the constitu- 
tion could have desired. No intimation has ever 
been heard that the existence of slavery in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia has ever produced the slightest 
danger or inconvenience either to the interests or 
to the officers of the Federal Govern^ient withm it. 
Surely, then, Congress cannot be called upon to 
interfere with that'institution v.dthin the District as 
one of its duties growing out of the national objects 
connected with the cession; and if such interference 
is demanded fi'om it, the demand must grow out of 
its relations to the District as a local leigslature. 
This brings the committee to the remaining ques- 
tion. 

2. Would the States of Maryland and Virginia, 
if the cession of this territory to the Federal Go- 
vernm.ent had not been made, from any thing which 
has been shown to Congress, be induced to interfere 
with, or abolish, the institution of domestic slavery 
within it 1 

At the time of the cession from those States, 
slavery existed in every portion of their territory, 
in the same degree, and subject to the same laws 
and regulations by which it was authorized and 
regulated in the territory ceded to the Federal Go- 
vernment. It still exists in those States, Avithout 
any material variation or modification of their laws 
respecting it. As those States, then, have not abo- 
lished it within the territories remaining under 
their jurisdiction, is it reasonable to suppose that 
they would have abolished it in the territory com- 
prising the District, had they continued to retain 
their original jurisdiction over if? Can any reason 
v/hatever be given for the abolition of slavery in 
this particular District, which does not apply with 
equal force to every, other slaveholding section of 
the country 1 Can any cause be shown why the 
States of Maryland and Virginia would have abo- 
lished, or would now abolish, slavery in this Dis- 
trict, had it continued to form a part of those States 
respectively, which Avould not have wa,rranted or 
produced general abolition throughout those States'? 
Mo^t unquestionably not! As those States, then, 
have not abolished slavery in the residue of their 
territory, it is evident that they would not have 
abolished it in the District of Columbia, if it had 
continued subject to their action. It follows conclu- 
sively, therefore, that Congress, as the local legisla- 
ture of the District, and acting independently of the 
national considerations connected with its powers 
over it, is bound, for the preservation of the public 
faith, and the rights of all ths parties interested, to ■ 
act upon the same reasons, and. to exercise the same 
naternal regard, which would have governed the 
States by which the District was ceded to the Fede- 
ral Government. And it is unne-.essary to add, 
that Congress has acted wisely in treating the in- 
stitutions found in existence at the time of the ces- 
sion as the institutions of the people of the District; 
in continuing their laws and customs, as the laws 
and customs to which they had been used, and 
which should never be altered, or interfered with, 
except where the people themselves may be de- 
sirous of a change. 

Your committee must gp further, and express 
their full conviction, that any interference by Con- 
"■ress with the private interests or rights of the citi- 
zens of this District, without their consent, would 
ibe a breach of the faith reposed in the Federal Go- 



8 



vernment by the States that made the cession, and 
as violent an infraction of private rights as it would 
have been if those States themselves, supposing 
their jurisdiction had remained unimpaired over 
their territory, had abolished slavery within those 
portions of their respective limits, and had continued 
its existence, upon its present basis, in every other 
portion of them. And surely there is no citizen, in 
any quarter of the country, who has the smallest 
regard for our laws and institutions, State and na- 
tional, or for equal justice, and an equality of rights 
and priifileges among citizens entitled to it, who 
would attempt to justify such an outrage on the 
part of those States. The question then is, Are 
the citizens of the District desirous of a change 
themselves 1 Has any request or movement been 
made by them that would justify an interference 
with their private rights on the part of Congress ? 
None, whatever! The citizens of the District not 
only have not solicited any action on the part of 
Congress, but it is well known that they earnestly 
deprecate such action, and regard, with abhorrence, 
the elTorts that are made by others, who have no 
interest whatever in the District, to effect it. It is 
impossible, therefore, that any such interference on 
the part of Congress could be justified, or even pal- 
liated, on the ground that it was sought or desired 
by those who are alone interested in the subject. 
If, therefore, Congress were to interfere with this 
description of property against the consent of the 
people of the District, your committee feel bound 
to say, that it would be as gross a breach of public 
faith, and as outrageous an infraction of private 
rights, as it would have been if such an interference 
had been committed by the States of which the Dis- 
trict was formerly a part^ supposing that it never 
had been ceded to the United States. 

Your committee will here anticipate an objection 
which may be urged against this reasoning and 
these conclusions. They have shown that the 
pov/ers of Congress over this District divide them- 
selves into two classes, national and local; that in 
reference to the former, the action of Congress 
should be governed by the interests of the whole 
country, so far as they are connected Vv'ith the 
branches of the Federal Government located v.'ithin 
the District; that in reference to the latter, its 
powers are, and its action should be, those of a lo- 
cal and municipal legislature, extending i:ts paternal 
care and protection over the citizens dependent up- 
on, and subjected to, this branch of its authority; 
that in the exercise of its powers, the safest stand m 
reference to slavery is, what Avould the States to 
which the District originally belonged, and of which 
its citizens were originally citizens, have done in 
case their jurisdiction had never been transferred 
to Congress ; and that those States would certainly not 
ha,ve interfered with the institution of slavery in the 
District, had the power to do so remained v/ith 
them. The obiection anticipated is, that the States 
in question have pursued an unv-ase policy as to 
themselves, and that their having done so should 
not have bound Congress, as the local legislature 
of the District, to a similar policy m relation to its 
government. To this, however, your committee 
consider it perfectly conclusive to repty, that under 
ofour institutions, 'that people is the best governe 
which IS governed most in accordance with its own 
habits, interests, and wishes; that the policy hitherto 
pursued by Congress in reference to slavery within 
the Distiict, your committee have every reason to 
believe, has been in perfect conformity with the 



wishes and interests of the citizens concerned; and 
that it will be time enough for Congress, acting as 
the local legislature of the District, and in that ca- 
pacity bound to consult the governed, as the regu- 
lators of its action, to move in any matter relating 
to their private interests and rights when they them- 
selves shall ask such movement. 

There is another consideration connected with 
this part of the argument, which your committee 
think Avorthy of attention. It is this : that there is 
no law in the District prohibiting the master from 
manumitting his slaves, which he may do at his 
OAvn discretion, and without incurring any respon- 
sibility whatever. Certain it is that'no such law 
has been passed by Congress. The citizens of the 
District, therefore, have no necessity for the aid of 
Congress, should they wish the abolition of slavery 
among them. They have only to exercise an ex- 
isting right, and their wish will be accomplished. 
Can there be more decisive evidence, then, that 
they do not wish the abolition of slavery, than that 
it continues to exist among them 1 or can any one 
desire more conclusive proof that any attempt by 
Congress to effect this object by the force of law 
would be an interference with the rights of private 
property, against the wishes and consent of those 
concerned, and for none of the purposes for v,'hich 
Congress is authorized by the constitution to take 
private property for public use 1 

Hence, your committee believe they have proved, 
beyond the power of contradiction, that an inter- 
ference by Congress with slavery in the District of 
Columbia would be a violation of the public faith 
— of the faith reposed in Cc ngress by the States 
which ceded the territory to the Federal Govern- 
ment, so far as the rights and interests of those citi- 
zens residing within the ceded territory are con- 
cerned. 

Your com.mittee will novi^ consider this proposi- 
tion in reference to the interests of the States o 
Maryland and Virginia,. They Avere slavehokling 
States at the time they made their cession, and they 
are so still. They entirely surround this District, 
from which th'ey are only separated upon all sides 
by imaginary lines, They made the cession for 
the great national oJDJects which have been already 
pointed cait, and they made it from motives of pa- 
iriotism alone, and Avithout any compensation from 
the Federal Government for the surrender of juris- 
diction oA^er commanding positions in both States. 
The surrender Avas made for purposes deemed 
suflicieutly important, by ail the original States, to 
be provided for in the constitution of the United 
States; and it Avas made in conformity Avith that 
provision of the constitution. It is surely unne- 
cessary, after this statement of facts, to undertake 
to shoAv that those patriotic States made this cession 
for purposes of good to the Union, and conse- 
quently to themselves, and not for purposes of evil 
to themselves, and consequently to the Union; and 
that the Government of the United States accepted 
the cession for the same good, and not for evil, pur- 
poses. 

If, then, it can be demonstrated that tlie abolition 
of slavery in the District of Columbia Avould pro- 
duce evil, and not good, to the States that made the 
cession, the conclusion is ineA'"itable that such an 
a,ct on the part of Congress AA'Ould be a violation of 
the faith reposed in it by those States. To all to 
Avhom this is not perfectly palpable without an ar- 
gument, the following considerations kre presented : 

It has been already said that the States of Mary- 



land and "Virginia surround the District. It has 
also been sho-mi that, in reference to slavery within 
the District, the relations of Congress are entirely 
those of a local legislature, and that its action 
therefore, in this capacity, should be governed by 
the same reasons which would have governed 
those States themselves in relation to this subject, 
if their jurisdiction over this territory had never 
been surrendered. Let us suppose, then, that this 
jurisdiction had never been surrendered by Mary- 
land and Virginia, and that it was now proposed 
that they sLould abolish slavery, and relinquish all 
power of legislation over free blacks, within the 
portions of those Slates which constitute the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, retaining their respective insti- 
tutions of slavery in all the remaining portions of 
their territory. Who is there that would not be 
amazed at the folly of such an acf? Who does not 
see that such a step would necessarily produce dis- 
content and insurrections in the remaining portions 
of those States 1 Who does not perceive that under 
such circumstances the District would constitute at 
once a neutral ground, upon which hosts of free 
blacks, fugitive slaves, and incendiaries, would be 
assembled in the work of general abolitionism; and 
that from such a magazine of evil, every conceiva- 
ble mischief would be spread through the surroun- 
ding country, with almost the rapidity of the move 
ments of the atm^osphere? Surely n o one can doubt the 
certainty of the consequential evils in the case sup- 
posed. How then can any doub: or deny the dan- 
gers in the case before us"? The territory is the 
same ; it is surrounded by the same portions of 
slaveholding States; and the only difierence is, that 
in the case supposed, the abolition would be the 
work of State authorities, Avhile, in the other, it is 
sought to accomplish it by the authority of Con- 
gress. The condition of things before and after it 
is done, is the same in both cases, and the opportu- 
nities for mischief, in case the work be accom- 
plished, are equal in both. Can it be necessary to 
say more, to establish the position, that any inter- 
ference Avith slavery in the District of Columbia, 
on the part of Congress, would be a violation of 
the public faith, the faith reposed in Congress by 
those States, and without v.rhich they never could 
have been induced to have made that cession 1 

It only remains under this head to show that Con- 
gress could not interfere with slavery in the Dis- 
trict of Colmnbia, without a violation of the public 
faith, in reference to the slaveholding States gener- 
ally, as well as to the States of Virginia and Ma,ry- 
land. The provision in the constitution authoriz- 
ing Congress to accept the cession of a territory for 
a seat of the Federal Government, and to exercise 
exclusive jurisdiction over it, was as general and 
universal as any other provision in that instrument. 
In its national objects all the States Avere equally 
interested, and so far as there was any danger that 
the powers of local legislation conferred on Con- 
gress niiglit interfere with, or injuriously affect, the 
institutions of the various States, each State pos- 
sessed an interest proportioned to the probable dan- 
ger to itself. As far as your committee know or 
believe, however, no apprehension of an interfer- 
ence on the subject of domestic slavery was enter- 
tained in any qua)tcr, or expressed by any states- 
man of the day. An examination of the commen- 
taries on the constitution Avill show that variotis 
apprehensions were entertained, as to the powers 
conferred on Congress, by this clause, such as that 
privileged classes of society might be created within 



the District; that a standing army, dangerous to 
the liberties of the country, might be organized and 
sustained within it, and the like; but not a sugges- 
tion can be found that, under the local powers to be 
conferred, any attempt would be made to interfere 
with the private rights of the citizens who might 
be embraced within the District, or to disturb, 
or change, direclly,or by consequence, the municipal 
institutions of the States, or that the subject of do- 
mestic slavery, as it existed in the States, could be 
in any way involved in the proposed cession. At 
that time, all the States held slaves. Many of them 
have since, by their own independent action, with-- 
out influence or interference from the Federal Go- 
vernment, or from their sister States, effected, in 
their own time and vvay, the work of emancipation ; 
others of the original States, remain as they were 
at the time of the adoption of the constitution, in 
reference to this description of , property, and seve- 
ral new members have been admitted into the 
Union as slaveholding States. All the States 
which have held, or nov/ hold, slave property, have 
invariably considered the institution as one exclu- 
sively subject to State authority, and not to be 
affected, directly or indirectl)^, by Federal inter- 
ference. The practice of the Government, as well 
as its theory, has established this doctrine, and the 
action of the States, in retaining or abolishing the 
institution at pleasure, has conformed entirely to 
this principle. Now the subject of Federal inter- 
ference has become one of some agitation, and 
Congress is solicited to adopt measures in relation 
to the District of Columbia, which have been 
shown to be most dangerous and destructive to the 
security and interests of the two slaveholding 
States by which it was ceded to the Federal Go- 
Arernment. Your committee v/ill not trouble the 
House to prove, that any measure of the Federal 
Legislature, which would have this tendency in 
those two States, would, from the very necessity of 
the case, and the unity of the interest wherever it 
exists, have the same tendency, measurably, in all 
the other slaveholding meml5ers of the Union. 
This position is too plain for argument. If, then, 
all the States Avere equally interested in the national 
objects for Avhich this territory Avas ceded as the 
seat of the Federal GoA'crnment: if that cession 
Avas designed by the framers of the constitution, to 
enure to "the benefit of the whole confederacy, and 
Avas made in furtherance of that design; and if 
Congress, contrary to the obvious iuient and spirit 
of the cession, shall do an act not required by the 
national objects contemplated by it, but directly re- 
pugnant to the interests and Avishes of the citizens 
of the ceded territory, and calculated to disturb the 
peace, and endanger the interests, of the slave- 
holding members cf the Union, such an act must 
be in violation of the public faith; of the faith re- 
posed in Congress by the States that made the ces- 
sion, and which Avould be deeply injured by such an 
exercise of power under it ; and also of the faith 
reposed in that body by all the States, inasmuch as 
no independent State in the Union can be injured 
in its peace, or its rightful interests, by the action of 
the Federal Gouernment, Avithout a corresponding 
injury to every member of the confederated Stales., 
Your committee have already shown that an in- 
terference with slavery in the District of Columbia, 
Avould involve a violation of the public faith, as 
regards the rights and interests of the citizens 
thereof. They recur to this topic, however, on ac- 
count of its importance, and for the purpose of put- 



10 



ting it in another light, and, as they consider, upon 
unanswerable ground. They are aware that, under 
the constitution,* Congress possesses " exclusive 
legislation" over the aforesaid District; but the 
power of legislation was given to be exercised for 
beneficial purposes only, and cannot, therefore, be 
exercised, consistently with public faith, for any 
object that is at war with the great principles npon 
which the Government itself is founded. The con- 
stitution, to be properly understood, must be taken 
as a whole. Wherever a particular power is grant- 
ed, the extent to which it may be carried, can only 
•be inferred from other provisions by v/hich it may 
be regulated or restrained. The constitution, while 
it confers upon Congress exclusive legislation vjith- 
m this District, does not, and could not, confer un- 
limited or despotic authority over it. It could con- 
fer no power contrary to the fundamental princi- 
ples of the constitution itself, and the essential and 
unalienable rights of American citizens. The 
right to legislate, therefore, (to make the constitu- 
tion consistent with itself,) is evidently qualified by 
the provision that "no man shall be" deprived of 
life, liberty, or property, without due process of 
law,"t and various others of a similar character. 
We lay it down as a rule, that no Government can 
do any thing directly repugnant to the principles of 
natural jus; ice and of the social compact. It wouM 
be totally subversive of all the purposes for which 
governmeru is instituted. Vattel says : "The great 
end of civil society is, whatever constitutes happi- 
ness with the peaceful posse.-jsion of property." No 
republican would tolerate that a man should be 
punished, hy a special statute, for an act not legally 
punishable at the time of its commission. No 
republican could approve any system of legislation 
by which private contracts, lawfully made, should 
be declaied null and void, or by which the property 
of fin inui Vidua], lawfully acquired, should be arbi- 
trarily wrested from him by the high hand of power. 
But these great principles are not left for their sup- 
port to the natural feelings of the human heart, or 
to the mere general spirit of republican govern- 
ment. They are expressly incorporated in ihe con- 
stitution, aiid they have aJso been recognised, and 
insisted on, by the Supreme Court of the United 
States, which lays down the following sound and 
incontrovertible doctrine : " There are acts which 
the Federal or State Legislatures cannot do, without 
exceeding their authority. There are certain vital 
principles in our free republican Government , which 
will determine and overrule an apparent and fla- 
grant abuse of legislative power ;^ as to authorize 
manifest injusiice by positive law, or to take away 
that security fo r personal liberty or private property, 
for the 'protection whereof the Government was 
established. Ah act of the legislature, contrary to 
the great first principles of the social compact, cannot 
be considered a rightful exercise of lestslative oai- 
thority. The obligation. of a law, in Governments 
established on express compact, and on republican 
principles, must be determined by the nature of the 
power on which it is founded. ' A ieAv instances 
will sufiice to explain. A law that punished a citi- 
zen for an innocent action, or that was in violation 
of an existing law ; a law that destroys or impairs 
the obligation of the lawful private contracts of 
citizens ; a law that makes a man a judge in his 
own case ; or a lav/ that takes property from A, and 

* Article 1, section 8. 

t Amendments lo the Constitution, art, 5. 



gives it to B. It is against all reason and justice 
for a people to entrust a legislature with such pow- 
ers, and therefore it cannot be presumed that they 
have done it. The legislature may enjoin or per- 
mit, forbid or punish ; they may declare new crimes,, 
and establish rules of conduct lor future cases; 
but they cannot change innocence into guilt, or 
punish innocence as a crime, or violate the rightsi 
of an antecedent lawful private contract, or the 
right of private property. To maintain that our 
Federal or State Legislatures possess such powers, 
even if they had not been expressly restrained, 
would be a, political heresy, altogether inadmissible m 
our free republican Governmcnl."t Now, every 
principle here affirmed by the court, applies to, and 
protects, the people of this District, as well as the 
people of the States. The inhabitanis of this Dis- 
trict are a part of the people of the United States. 
Every right and interest secured by the constitu- 
tion to the people of the States, is equally secured 
to the people of the District. Congress can there- 
fore do no act aifecting property or person, in rela- 
tion to this District, which it is prohibited to do m. 
relation to the citizens of the States, without a di- 
rect violation of the public faith. For insta.nce, it 
is a well settled constitutional principle, that " pri- 
vate property shall not be taken for public use, •■ ith- 
out just compensation." Now, the true meaning 
of tills provision obviously is, that private property 
shall be taken only for public use, but shall not be 
taken, even then, without adequate remuneration. 
It is evident, however, in reference to slavery, 
either that the Government would use the slaves, 
or that it y/ould not. If it would use them, then 
thejr would not be emancipated • and it v/ould be 
an idle mockery to talk of the freedom of those 
who would only cease to be private, to become pub- 
lic, slaves. If it would not use them, then how- 
could it be said that they were taken for the public 
use, consistently with the provision just recited'? 
But even if they could be taken without reference 
to public use, they could not be taken v/ithout just 
compensation. It is exceedingly questionable,- 
however, whether Congress could legally apply the 
public revenue to such an object, even Avith the con- 
sent of the owners of the slaves. As to emancipa- 
tion without their consent, and without just com- 
pensation, your committee will not stop to consider 
it. It could not bear examination. Honor, huma- 
nity, policy, all forbid it. It is manifest, then, from 
all the considerations herein stated, (and there are 
others equally forcible that might be urged) that 
Congress could not abolish slavery in the District 
of Columbia, without a violation of the public 
faith. 

Your committee will only add one or tv/o reflec- 
tions upon this interesting point. 

What is the meaning of the declaration adopted 
by the House, in relation to the District of Colum- 
bia ?• Is it not, that Congress cannot, and will not,, 
do an act which it has solemnly proclaimed to in- 
volve a violation of the public faith 1 Does it not 
afl^brd every security to the South which it is in the 
power of the Federal Grovernment to afibrd '? Is it 
not tantamount, in its binding obligation u,pon the 
Government, to a positive declaration, that the abo- ' 
lition of slavery in the District of Columbia would 
be unconstitutional 1 Nay, is it not even more 
efficacious in point of fact? Constitutional provi- 
sions are maUers of construction. The opinion of 



t Dallas's Rep. vol, 3, p. S88. 



11 



one House, upon an abstract controverted point, 
may be overruled and reversed by another. But 
when Congress has solemnly declared that a f arti- 
cular act would be a violatio?i of the public faith, is 
it to be supposed that it would ever violate a pledge 
thus given to the country"? Can any abolitionist 
expect iti Need any citizen of a slave ytate fear 
it 1 What is public faith but the honor of the Go- \ 
vernment 1 Why are treaties regarded as sacred 
and inviolable 1 Why, but because they involve 
the pledge, and depend upon the sanctity of the 
national faith 1 Why are all compacts or promises 
made by Governments held to be irrevocably bind- 
ing ■? Why, but because they cannot break them 
without committing perfidy, and destroying all con- 
fidence in their justice and integrity "; Surelj^then, 
your committee may say with the utmost confidence, 
"(and the sentiinent will be ratified by every Ameri- 
can heart) that the declaration now promulged in 
relation tolhis subject, will not be departed from 
by any succeeding legislature, except under cir- 
cumstances (should any such ever arise in the pro- 
gress of oar country) in which a departure- from it 
would not be regarded by the slaveholding States 
themselves, as a. wanton or arbitrary infraction of 
the public faith! 

Your committee are further instructed to report, 
that, in the opinion of this House, Congress oiighi 
not to interfere in anj^ way with slaveiy in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia — 

•2dly. Because it would be unwise and impolitic ! 

It will be palpable to the nrinds of all, that if the 
committee have succeeded in establishing, as they 
think they have, that any such interference on the 
j^art of Congress would be a violation of the public 
faith, it would be a work of supererogation to at- 
tempt to show, that such an act would be unv/ise 
and impolitic : as there may be some, however, who 
may not agree with them in their arguments or 
conclusions upon that point, they feel bound, under 
the instruction of the House, to ofier a few sugges- 
tions under this head. 

The Federal Government v\'as the creation of the 
States of the Confederac)', and the great objects of 
its creation and organization " were to form amore 
perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic 
tranquillit}', and provide for the common defence 
and general welfare." 

Appi)' these principles, then, to an interference 
by Congress with slaveiy in the District of Colum- 
bia. Sucn action, to be politic, must be in accord- 
ance with some one of those great objects ; and it 
will be the duty of the committee, in as concise a 
manner as possible, to show that it would not be in 
accordance with either of them. 

First, then, as to the District itself. 

It has already been shown, thatanj'' interference, 
unsolicited by the inhabitants of the District, can- 
not " establish justice," or promote the cause of 
jusfice within it,, but directly the reverse. No 
greater degree of slavery exists here now, than did 
exist vv'hen the constitution was adopted, and then 
the inhabitants of the District were citizens of the 
States of Maryland and Virginia, and had a voice 
in the adoption of that instrument. Surely their 
subsequent transfer to the jurisdiction of Congress, i 
made in conformity with that constitution, could not | 
deprive them of the protection to which tl)ey were j 
entitled by these great leading principles of it. On 
the contrary, they had every right to expect that 
Congress woukl •' establish justice," as to them, in 
strict compliance with the great charter under 



wh,ich it acted, and by which it is forbidden to in- 
terfere with the rights of private property, with- 
out their consent, or in any way to affect, inju- 
riously, their domestic institutions. Of those in- 
stitutions, slavery w'as, and is, the most important; 
and any attempt on the part of Congress, acting as 
the local Legislature of the District, to abolish it, 
Avouid not only be impolitic, but an act of gross in- 
justice and oppression. 

Secondly, as to the States of the* Union. Here 
again, your committee have but to refer to their 
former remarks, to show that the abolition of slavery 
in the District vi'oukl not "establish justice," but 
work great injustice to the surrounding States in. 
particular, and to all the slave States in general,, 
and in a degree proportioned to their proximity to 
the District, and to the influence upon the institu- 
tion of slaver}^ in the Union, of such action on the 
part of Congress. They have also shown that the 
abolition of slavery here, so far from tending to 
"ensure domestic tranquillity," would have a direct 
tendency to produce domestic discord and violence, 
and servile w^ar, in all the slaveholding States. As 
these consequences, then, would foUovi^ such action, 
in reference to the States, yoiu' committee need not 
say, that, instead of providing for " the common de- 
fence by it,'' Congress would be called upon to pro- 
vide for the common defence" in consccfuence of it, 
and to an extent which cannot nov/ be foreseen. 
Seeing, then, that the American Confederacy was 
formed for the great objects of providing for "the 
common defence and general v/elfare," it follov.-s, 
necessarily, that Congress is not only restrained 
frotn the commission of any act by v/hicli tliese ob- 
jects may be frustrated, but that it is bound to ^sus- 
tain and promote them. The same provision of the 
constitution* which requires it to call out the militia 
to " suppress insurrections," unquestionably im- 
poses the corresponding obligation upon it, to com- 
mit no act by which an insurrectionary spirit may 
be excited. "The same provision wdiich enjoins it 
on the Federal Government to "guaranty to each 
State a republican form of government, and to aid 
and protect each State against domestic vioience,"t 
evidently nnplies the correlative obligation to take 
no step, of which the direct and inevitable tendency 
would be to overthrovv^ the State Governments, and* 
to involve them in wide .spread scenes of misery 
and desolation. In one word, if it be the duty of 
Congress, as it most clearly is, to support and pre- 
serve the constitution and the Union, tb.en it is 
manifest, that it is bound to avoid the adoption of 
any legislation which may lead to their de-i ruction. 
Your committee consider these positions too ob- 
vious to require argum.ent or illustration. They 
consider it equally manifest, that any attempt to 
abolish slavery in" the District, would necessarily 
tend to the deplorable consequences to wlrichthey 
have adverted. Congress, therefore, is bnnnd, by 
every principle of duty which forbids ir to interfere 
with' slavery in any of tlie States, io abstain from 
any similar interfence in the District of Columbia. 

Your committee have already adverted to the 
evils that would necessarily result to the stirroulid- 
ing States, and to the slave States generally, from 
any interference by Congress with the inslitution of 
slavery in the District of Columbia. The nature 
and rnagnitude of those evils, however, require 
that they should be exhibited more fully and dis- 

* Cnn. art. 1, gee. 8. 
\ Art. 4, sec. 4. 



12 



tinc'Jy. The question is, whether slavery ought to 
be abolished m the District of Columbia 1 Npw 
suppose the affirmative of this proposition were sus- 
tained by Congress, what would it be but indi- 
rect legislation, or rather direct interference, as re- 
gards the rights and property of the southern States. 
And can any one imagine that such a state of things 
would be patiently borne 1 But this is not all ; nav, 
it is not half the evil that would follow. Could 
slavery be abolished in the District without leading 
directly and inevitably to insubordination and re- 
volt throughout the south'? And can anyone de- 
sire to produce such results'? Is there a man who 
has forgotten the history of St. Domingo, or the in- 
surgent attempt at Charleston, or the tragical scenes 
at Southampton ! or the recent and lamentable occur- 
rences in the States of Louisiana and Mississippi'? 
or is there an individual who would wish them re- 
peated, and extended throughout the entire region 
of the south "? Why , then , will infatuated individ u- 
als persist in pressing a scheme, which is not only 
impracticable, as regar»3 the States, but fraught 
with evil to the verj objects it is proposed to 
benefit "? True philanthropy would avoid this sub- 
ject, seeing the distraction it creates, and the dread- 
ful consequences it involves. It would leave it to 
those whom ii most concerns, and who alone are 
competent to act upon it. It would trust to time, 
and to tljc gradual operation of causes which may 
arise of themselves, but which can neither be pro- 
duced ncr hastened by foreign interference, or the 
power of ibis G!-overnment. Why, Hi en, your com- 
mittee earnestly repeat, why urge a measure whiclx 
is clearly impracticable in itself, which none but 
he slaveholding States have a right to act on, and 
which has increased, and will always' increase, the 
hardships and restraints ot those for whose im.agi- 
nary benefit they arc waging this cruel and fanati- 
cal crusade 1 

^ We have said that the scheme of general eman- 
cipation is impracticable. The slightest reilection 
must satisfy every candid mind of the truth of this 
assertion. , 

_ Admitting that the Federal Government had a 
right to act upon this matter, which it clearly has 
"not, it certainly never could achieve such an opera- 
tion without full compensation to the owners. 'And 
what would probably 'be the amount required'? The 
aggregate value of' all that species of propertv is 
not less probably than four hundred millions of dol- 
lars ! And hov/ could such an amount be raised 1 
Will the people of this coumry ever consent to the 
imposition of oppressive taxes, that the proceeds 
niay be applied to the purchase of slaves '? The 
idea is preposterous ; and not only that, but it is 
susceptible of demonstration, that even if an annu- 
alappropriation of ten millions were actually ap- 
plied to the purchase and transportation of slaves, 
the Avhole number \vox\\A not be sensibly diminished 
at the expiration of half a ceniuiy, from the natural 
growih and multiplication of the race. Burthen 
the Treasury as we might, it would still be an end- 
less expense and an inrerminable work. And this 
view of the subject surely is sufhcient of itself to 
prove, that of all the schemes ever projected by 
fanaticism, the idea of universal emancipation is 
the most visionary and impracticable. 

But even if the scheme were practicable, what 
would be gained by effecting if? Suppose that 
Congress could emancipate all the slaves in th- 
Union, is such a resuU desirable'? This question 
is addressed to the sober sense of the people of 



America. Would it be politic or advantageous'? 
Would it contribute to the wealth, or grandeur, or 
happiness of our country 1 On the contrary, would 
it not produce consequences directly the reverse'?) 
Are not the slaves unUt for freedom ; notoriously ig- 
norant, servile, and depraved '? and Avould any ra- 
tional man have them instantaneously transformed 
into freemen, with all the rights and privileges of 
American citizens'? Are they ca;pable of under- 
standing correctly the nature of our Government, 
or exercising judiciously a single political right or 
privilege. Nay, would they even be capable of 
earning their own livelihood, or rearing their fami- 
lies independently by their own ingenuity and in- 
dustry ! What then would follow from their libera- 
tion, but the most deplorable state of socieiy with 
which any civilized country was ever cursed '? 
How would vice and immorality, and licentious- 
ness, overrun the land '? How many jails and 
penitentiaries, tliat now seldom hold a prisoner, 
would be crowded to suffication '? How many fer- 
tile fields, .that now jaeld regular and abundant 
harvests, would lie unoccupied and desolate '? How 
Vi'ould the foreign commerce of the south, decline 
and disappear 1 How many thousands of seamen, 
of whom southern agriculture is the very life, vrould 
be driven for support to foreign countries'? And 
how large a portion of the federal revenue, derived 
from fcreig-n commodities exchanged for southern 
products, would be lost forever to tiiis Government ■? 
And, in addition to all this, what would be the con- 
dition of southern society, were all the slaves eman- 
cipated '? Would the whites consent that the blacks 
should be placed upon a full footing of equality 
with them'? Unquestionably not ! Either the one 
class or the other would be forced to emigrate, and, 
in either case, the Vv'hole region of the south would 
be a scene of poverty and ruin. Or, what is stili 
more probable, the blacks would every where be 
driven before the whites, as'the Indians have been, 
until they were exterminated from the earth. ■ And 
surely it is unnecessary to remark, that decaj^ and 
desolation could not break down the south, with- 
out producing a corresponding depression upon 
the wealth and enterprise of the northern States. 
And here let us ask, too, what would be the condi- 
tion of the non-slaveholding States themselves, as 
regards the blacks "? Are they prepared to receive 
myriads of negroes, and place them upon an equali- 
ty with the free white laborers and mechanics, who 
constitute their pride and strength '? Will the new 
States consent 'that their territory shall be occupied 
by negroes, instead of the enterprising, intelligent, 
and patriotic white population, which is, daily seek- 
ing their borders from other portions of the Union'? 
Shall the yeomanry of those States be surrounded 
by thousands of such bemgs, and the white laborer 
forced inl,o competition and association with them'? 
Are they to enjo3''lhe same civil and political privi- 
leges as the free white citizens of the north and 
west, and to be admitted into the social circle as their 
friends and companions'? Nothing less than all 
this will constitute perfect freedom and the princi- 
ples now maintained by those who advocate eman- 
cipation wouVl, if carried out, necessarily produce 
this state of things ! Yet, Avho believes that it would 
be tolerated for a moment % Already have laws 
been passed in several of the non-slaveholding 
Stntps to exclude free blacks from a settlement 
wLhi:- their limits; and a prospect of general and 
immediate abolition would compel them, in self- 
defence, to resort to a system of measures much 



13 



more rigorous and eflTective than any which have 
yei been adopted. Driven from the south then, the 
blacks would find no place of refuge in the north ; 
and, as before remarked, utter extermination would 
be the probable, if not the inevitable, fate of the 
whole race. Where is the citizen then, that can 
desire such results'? Where the American who 
can contemplate them without emotion'? Where 
the abolitionist that will not pause, in view of the 
direful consequences of his scheme, both to the 
whites and the blacks, to the north and the south, 
and to the whole Union at large 1 

Your committee deem it their duty to say that, in 
their opinion, the people of the south have been very 
unjustly censiued in reference to slavery. It is nol 
their purpose, however, to defend them. Their 
character, as men and citizens, needs no vindica- 
tion from us. Wherever it is known it speaks for 
itself, nor would any wantonly traduce it, but those 
assassins of reputation, who are also williEg to be 
the destroyers of life. Exaggerated pictures have 
been drawn of the hardships of the slave, and every 
effort made to malign the south, and to enlist against 
it both the religious and political feeliug of the 
nurth. Yotir committee cannot too strongly ex- 
press their unanimous and unqualified disapproba- 
tion of all such movements. The constitution, un- 
der which we live, was framed by our common an- 
cestors, to preserve the liberty and independence 
achieved by their united efforts in the council and 
the field. In all our contests with foreign enemies, 
the south has exhibited an unwavering attachment 
to the common cause. Where is the spot of which 
Americans are prouder than the plains of York- 
town 1 Or, when was Britain more humbled, or 
America more honored, than by the victory of New 
Orleans'? All our history, from the revolution 
down, attests the high, and uniform, and dev iicd, 
patriotism of the south. Her domestic institutions 
are her own. They were brought into the Union 
with her, and .secured by the compact which maJ-zes 
us one people ; and he who would sow dissensions 
among members of the same great political family, 
by assailing the institutions, and impugning the 
character of the citizens of the south, should be re- 
garded as an enemy to the peace and prosperity of 
(jiir conmon country. 

If there is a feature by which the present age may 
be said to be clraracterizcd, it is that sickly senti- 
mentality which, disregarding the pressing claims 
and wants of its own immediate neighborhood, or 
town, or State, wa.stes and dissipates itself in 
visionary, and often very mischievous, enterprizes, 
for the imaginary beneiit of remote communities. 
Trae philanthropy, righlly understood and pro- 
perly applied, is one of the purest and most enob- 
ling principles of our nature; but, misdirected or 
perverterl, it degenerates into that fell spirit of 
fanaticism which disregards all ties, and tramples 
on all obstacles, however sacred or venerable, in 
the relemles.s prosecution of its horrid purposes. 
Experience proves, however, that, when individuals 
in one place, mistaking the true character of bene- 
volence, rashly undertake, at the irnmenent hazard 
of conflict and convulsion, to re:ncdy what they are 
pleased to consider evils and distresses in another, 
it is naturally regarded by those who are thus in- 
jured, either as a species of madness which may be 
repelled or resisted, as any otl.er madness may, or 
a<; manifesting afecling of hostility on the one side 
which must necessarily produce corresponding 
aljc-na'.ion on the other. It k all important, thcre^ 



fore, that the spirit of abolition, or in other wordSj 
of illegal and officious interference with the domes- 
tic institutions of the south, should be arrested and 
put down ; and men of intelligence and influence at 
the north should endeavor to produce that sound 
and rational state of public opinion which is equally 
due to the south and to the preservation of the 
Union. 

And this brings your conunittee to the last posi- 
tion they have been instructed to sustain; and that 
is, that, in the opinion of this House, Congress- 
ought not to inlerlere, in any way, with slavery in. 
the District of Columbia. 

3dly. Because it would be dangerous to the 
Union. 

The first great object enumerated in the consti- 
tution, as an inducement to its adoption, was to 
" form a more perfect union." At that time, all 
the States held slaves, to a greater or less extent; 
and slavery in the Slates was fully recognised and 
provided for, in many particulars, in that instru- 
ment itself It was recognised, however, and all 
the provisions upon the subject so regarded it, as a 
State, and not a national institution. At that time, 
too, as has been before remarked, the District of 
Columbia constituted an integral part of two of 
the independent States which became parties to 
the Confederacy and to the constitution itself. 
Since that time an entir* emancipation of slaves 
has taken place in several of the old States; but in 
all cases this has been the work .of the States them- 
selves, without any interference whatever by the 
Federal Government. New States have also been 
admitted into the Union, with an interdiction in 
their con.stitutions against involuntary servitude, 
n this way, the slave States have become a mi- 
nority in representation in the Federal Legislature. 
Their interests, however, as States, in the institu- 
tion of domestic slavery, as it exists within their 
limits, have not diminished, nor has their right to 
perfect security under the constitution, in reference 
to this description of property, been in any way, or 
to any degree, surrendered or impaired, "since the 
adoption of that instrument by themselves and 
their sister States. 

The operation of causes, to a great extent natu- 
ral, and proceeding from climate, soil, and conse- 
quent production, has rendered slavery a local and 
sectional institution, and has thus added another to 
the most alarming apprehensions of patriots lor the 
perpetuity of this Union — the apprehension of local 
and geographical interests and distinctions. How 
immensely important is it then, that Congress 
should do no act, and assume no jurisdiction, in, 
reference to this great interest, by which it shall 
ever appear to place itself in the attitude of a local, 
instead of a national tribunal — a partial agent, pro- 
viding for peculiar and sectional objects and feel- 
ings, instead of a general and paternal legislature, 
equally and impartially promoting ihe general wel- 
fare of all the Stales. No one can fail to see, that 
any other course on the part of Congress, must 
weaken the confidence of the injured States in the 
federal authority, and, to the same extent, prove 
" dangerous to the Union." 

Since the adoption of the Federal Constitution, 
the Distiict of Columbia has been ceded to the 
United Stales as a seat of ilie Federal Government; 
but not only many eminent staUismen of tlie coun- 
try, but all of the sUtveholding States, speaking 
tli'rough their legislative a.sseml>lies. firmly believe 
and itisist that the cession so niade has conferred 



14 



upon Congress no constitutional power to abolish 
slavery wrthin the ceded territory. Your commit- 
tee have abstained from an examination of this 
question, because they were not instructed to dis- 
cuss it. But the)'' have no hesitation to say, that, 
in the view they have taken of the whole question, 
the obligations of Congress not to act on this sub- 
ject are as fully binding and insuperable as a posi- 
tive constitutional interdict, or an open acknow- 
ledgment of want of power. 

Considering the subject in this light, your com- 
mittee have already proved, that any interference 
by Congress with the subject of slavery, would be 
evidently calculated to injure the interests and dis- 
turb the peace of the slaveholding States; and if 
the}'' hafe succeeded in establishing this position, 
no argument is necessary to show, that such con- 
sequences, springing from the action of Congress 
as the local legislature of the District, would emi- 
nently endanger the existence of this Union. It 
has also been s>iown, that Congress, as the legisla- 
ture ol the Union, can have no constitutional power 
over this subject ; and that its powers, as a local 
legislature of the District, were granted for the 
mere purpose of rendering its general powers per- 
fect and free from conflict and collision with State 
authorities. It has also been shown that these 
local powers should be so exercised as to confer 
the greatest benefits upon the citizens residing 
within the District, Aviih the least possible injury 
to the peculiar interests of any State, or the general 
interests of all the States. Your committee have 
also shovrn, as they think successfully, that the 
abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia 
would be a deep injury to the citizens of the Dis- 
trict, and, therefore, a violation of the trust reposed 
in Congress as the local legislature of the District; 
and, also, that it would inflict an incurable injur^'' 
upon all the slaveholding States, and would, there- 
foi'e, be an equal violation of the trust reposed in 
that body as the Legislature of the Union. If, 
then, they have established these positions, as they 
think iliey have, can any one doubt that the action 
contemplated would be " dangerous to the Unionl" 
■being directly calculated, as it would be, to v.'eaken 
the confidence of the District in Congess as a safe 
and faithful local legislature, and the confidence of 
the slaveholding States^as an impartial guardian of 
their in; crests. 

Important as the Union is to each State, and to 
the whole American people, every one will admit 
that, as lar as possible, strict impartiality and kind 
feelings to all the interests and all the sections of 
the country should characterize the action of the 
Federal Government. The Union was formed for 
the common and equal benefit of all the States, and 
for the perfect and equal protection of the rights 
and interests of all the citizens of all the States. 
Its onlv strength is in the confidence of the States, 
and of the people, that these great benefits will ccm- 
tinue to be secured to them, and that these great 
purposes will be accomplished by its preservation . 
Any action, therefore, on the part of Congress, 
which shall weaken or destroy that confidence in 
any portion of our citizens, or in any State of the 
Union, mu*^!, inevitably, to that extent, endanger 
the Union itself! Who can doubt this reason iiigl 
Who does not know that the agitation of any ques- 
tion connected with domestic slavery, as it exists 

his country, among any portion of our citizens, 
creates apprehension and excitement in the slave- 
holding States "? Who does not know that the agi- 



tatioa of any such question in either branch of 
Congress, shakes their confidence in the security of 
their most important interests, and, consequently, 
in the continuance to them of those great benefits, 
to secure which they became parties to the Union 1 
Who then does not believe tliat any action by Con- 
gress, having for its object the abolition of slavery 
in any portion of the Union, however narrow or 
limited it may be, would necessarily impair the 
confidence of the slaveholding States in their se- 
curity in relation to this description of property, put 
an end to all their hope of benefits to be derived to 
them from the further continuance of the Union, 
and alienate their aiTections from itl Were Con- 
gress, in a single instance, to suffer itself to be im- 
pelled by mere feeling in one portion of the Union, 
to attempt a gratification of that feeling at the 
sacrifice of the dearest interests and most sacred 
rights of another portion, who can doubt that 
the Union would be seriously endangered, if not 
destroyed! But this conclusion does not depend 
upon reasoning alone. The evidences of public 
sentiment on this point, are equally abundant and 
decisive. Your committee having already extend- 
ed their report beyond the limits to which they could 
have Avished to confime it, will enter into no details 
upon this portion of their duty. Suflice it to say 
that the Legislatures of several, if not all, the slave- 
holding Slates, have solemnly re.solved that " Con- 
gress has no constitutional authority to abolish sla- 
very in the District of Columbia." It would be ut- 
terly impossible, therefore, that any such attempt 
should be made by Congress, without producing an 
exciiement, and involving consequences, Avhich no 
patriot can contemplate without the most painful 
emotions. It would be regarded by the slavehold- 
ing States as an entering wedge to a scheme of 
general emancipation, and, therefore, tend to pro- 
duce the same results, in relation to the Federal 
Government and the Union, that would be pro- 
duced by the adoption of any measure directly af- 
fecting the domestic institutions of the States them- 
selves. Your committee will not dAvell upon the 
picture that is thus presented to their minds. The 
reflection it excites is one of mingled bitterness and 
horror. It is one, they trust, which is never to be 
realized. Looking upon their beloved country, as 
it now stands, the envy and admiration of the 
world; contemplating, as they do, that unrivalled 
constitution, by which a beautious family of con- 
federated States, each independent in its own sepa- 
rate sphere, revolve around a Federal head with 
all the harmony and regularity of the planetary 
system; and knowing as they do, that under the 
beneficient influence of our free institutions, the 
people of this country enjoy a degree of liberty, 
prosperity and happiness, not only unpossessed, but 
scarcely imagined, by any other upon earth; they 
cannot "and v.ill not advert to the horrors, or depict 
the consequences of that most awful day, when the 
sun of Arnerican freedom shall go down in blood, 
and nothing remain of this glorious Republic but 
the bleeding, scattered, and dishonored fragments 
It would, indeed, be the extinction of the world's 
last hope, and the jubilee of tyranny over All the 
earth ! 

But 3'our committee feel, that with these painfsl 
impressions on iheir minds, they Avould but imper- 
fectly discharge their duty if they did not make an 
earnest appeal to the patriotism of the American 
People to sustain the resolution adopted by the 
House. And they would also appeal to the good 



15 



sense and good feelings of that portion of the aboli- 
tionists, who, acting under a misraken sense of 
-moral and religious dutj^, have embarked in this 
crusade against the South, solemnly invoking them 
in the name of our common country, to abstain 
from a system of agitation which has not only fail- 
ed, and wlir always fail, to attain its objects, but 
has even brought the Union itself into a state of 
imminent and fearful peril. It is confidently be- 
lieved that this appeal will not be made in vain, 
■ and that hereafter all who truly love their country 
will manifest their patriotism by avoiding this un- 
happy cause of discord and disunion; and that 
they "will make no further exertions upon a subject, 
from the continued agitation of which nothing but 
augmented evils can result. 

Your committee conclude by reporting thefol- 
lowing resolutions, conformably to the instructions 
given them bv the House : 

Resolved, That Congress possesses no constitu- 
tional authority to interfere in any way with the 
institution of slavery in any of the States of this 
Confederacy. 

The following are the votes on the resolutions at 
the conclusion of the report, viz : 

On the first resolution : 

YEAS — Messrs. Anthony, Ash, Barton, Bean, 
Bockee, Boon, Bouldin, Bovee, Boyd, Briggs, 
Brown, Buchanan, Burns, W. B. Calhoun, Cam- 
breleng, Campbell, Carr, Casey, Chaney Chap- 
man, Chapirj, N. H. Claiborne, J. H. F. Claiborne, 
Cleveland, Cotfee, Coles, Connor, Craig, Cramer, 
Cushing, Cushman, Deberry, Dennj', Dicker- 
son, Doubleday, Dromgoole, Duulap, Fairfiehi, 
Farlin, French, Fry, P. C. Fuller, W. K. 
Fuller, Galbraith, J. Garland, Gillet, Glascock, 
Grautland, Grayson, Gritfin, Haley, J. Hall, Ha- 
mer, S. S. Harrison, A. G. Harrison, Hawes, 
Haynes, Henderson, Heister, Holsey, Howard, 
Hubley, Huntington, Huntsman, Ingham, W. 
Jackson, J. Jackson, J. Johnson, R. M. Johnson, C. 
tlohnson, H. Johnson, J. W. Junes, B. Jones, Jud- 
son, Kennon, Kilgore, Kinnard, Klingensmith, 
Lane, Lansing, Lapsite, G. Lee, J. Lee, Leonard, 
Logan, Loyall, Lucas, A. Mann, Martin, W. Ma- 
son", M. Mason', May, McComas, McKay, McKim, 
McLene, Miller, Montgomery, Morgan, Morris, 
Muhlenburg, Owens, Page, Parker, Patterson, 
F. Pierce, Petligrew, Phelps, Pinkney, Potts, 
Joseph Reynolds, Ripley, Roane, Pv,ogers, Schenck, 
Seymour, W. B. Shepard, Shields, Shinn, Sickles, 
Snangler, Speight, Storer, Sutherland, Ta)ior, 
Thomas, J. Thomas, Toucey, Towns, Turner, 
Turrill, Vandevpoel, Wagoner, V/ard, Wardwell, 
Webster, and White— 138. 

NAYS— Mp^-;'^'-,. Adam^ H. Allen, Bailey, Bell, 
Bond, Bunch. G. Chambers, Clark, Everett, 
Granger, Graves, Grennell, H. Hall, Hard, Har- 
din, Harlan, Hazelline, Hoar, Howell, Hunt, 
Janes, Lawler, Lawre;ice, L.Lea, Lewis, Lincoln, 
Lyon, S. Mason, M^cKennon, Pafton, J. A. Pearce, 
Pickens, Rcncher, Russell, A. H. Shepperd, Slade, 
Sprague, S-andefer, 5 Steele, Taliaferro, Under- 
wood, Vinton, Whittlesey, L. Williams, S. Wil- 
liams, and Wise — 16. 

Resolved, That Congress ought not to interfere 
in any way with slavery in the District of Colmn- 
bia. 

An"d wfiEKKA.s it is extremely important and de- 
sirable, that the agitation of this subject should be 
finally arretted, for the purpose of restoring iran- 
quilliiylo thj public mind, your committee respect- 



fully recommend the adoption of the following ad. 
ditional resolution, vizr 

On the second resol ution : 

YEAS— Messrs. C. Allen, Anthony, Ash, Bar- 
ton, Bean, Beaumont, Bell, Bockee, Boon, Boul- 
din, Bovee, Boyd, Brown, Buchannan, Bunch, 
Burns, Cambreleng, Casey, Chaney, Chapman, 
Chapin, N. H. Claiborne, J. F. H. Claiborne, 
Cleveland, Coles, Connor, Craig, Cramer, Cush-' 
man, Deberry, Dickerson, Doubleday, Dromgoole, 
Dunlap, Fairfield, Farlin, French, Fry, W. K. 
Fuller, Galbraith, J. Garland, GiUett, Glascock, 
Grantland, Graves, Haley, Joseph Hall, Ha- 
mer, Hardin, Harlan, A. G. Harrison, Hawes, 
Hajmes, Holsey, Howard, Howell, Hubley, Hun- 
tington, Huntsman, Ingham, J. Jackson, J. Johnson, 
R. M. Johnson, C. Johnson, H. Johnson, J. W. 
Jones, Judson, Kennon, Kinnard, Klingensmith, • 
Lansing, Laporte, Lawler; G. Lee, Leonard, Lo- 
gan, Loyall, A. Mann, Martin, W. Mason. M. 
Mason, May, McComas, McKay, McKeon, Mc- 
Kim, McLene, Miller, Montgomery, Morgan, 
Muhlenburg, Owens, Page, Patterson, Patton, F. 
Pierce, J. A. Pearce, Pettigrew, Phelps, Pickens, 
Pinckney, Rencher, John Reynolds, Joseph Rey- 
nolds, Ripley, Roane, Rogers, Schenck, Sey- 
mour, W. B.' Shepard, A. H. Sheppard, Shinn, 
Sickles, Spangler, Speight, Standefer, Steele, 
Storer, Sutherland, Taliaferro, Taylor, J. Thom- 
son, Tousey, Turner, Turrill, Underwood, Van- 
derpoel, Wagener, Ward, Wardwell, Webster, 
White, L. Williams, S. Williams— 132. 

NAYS— Messrs. Heman Allen, Bailey, Bond, 
Borden. Briggs, W. B. Calhoun, Carr, George 
Chambers, Chdds, Clark, Cushin?, Denny Eve- 
rett, P. C. Fuller. Grennell, H. Hall, Hard, S. S. 
Harrison, Hazeltine, Henderson, Heister, Hoar, 
Hunt, IngersoU, W. Jackson, Janes, B. Jones, 
Kilgore, Lane, Lawrence, Joshua Lee, Lincoln, 
S. Mason, McCarty, McKennan, Morris, Parker, 
Phillips, Potts, Reed, Russel, Slade, Sprague, 
Vinton, and Vv^'hittlesey — 45. 

Resolved, That all petitions, memorials, resolu 
tions, propositions, or papers, relating in any way 
or to an_v extent whatever, to the subject of slavery 
or ihc abolition of slavery, shall, without either 
being prini;ed or referred, he laid upon the table 
and that no further action whate'/er shall be had 
thereon 

On the third resolution : 

YEAS— Messrs. C. Allen, Ash, Ashley, Bar- 
ton, Bean, Bockee, Boon, Bovee, Eovd, Brov/n, 
Ruths, Cambreleng, Casey, Chaney, Chaoman' 
Chapia, N. H. Claiborne, J. F. H. ^^Claiborne, 
Cleveland, Ooflfee, Coles, Connor, Craig, Cra- 
m.er, Cushman, J^eberry, Dickerson, Doubleday, 
Dromgoole, Dunlap, Fairfield, Farlan, French' 
Fry, W. R. Fuller, Galbraith, Gillett, Grantland,' 
Graves, J. Hall, Hamer, Hardin, Har'an, A. g! 
Harrison, Hawes, Haynes, Hov/ard, Edward B. 
Hubley, Pluntington. E[unt.sman, Ingham, J.Jack- 
son, J. Johnson, R. M. Johnson, Cave Johnson, 
Henry Johnson, Kennon, Kilgore, Kinnard, Klin- 
gensmith, Jr Lansing, Gideon Lee, Joshua Lee, 
Luke Lea, Leonard, Logan, Loyall, Lyon, Abijah 
Mann, Jr. Martin, William Mason, Moses Mason, 
Jr. May, McComas, McKay, McKoon, McKim' 
McLene, Miller, Montgomery, Muhlenbergl 
Owens, Page, Parks, Patterson, Franklin Pearce, 
James A. Pearce, Pet,tiq:rew, Phelps, Pincicn-yj 
Rencher, John Reynolds, Joseph Revnolils, Rir)!e".% 
Roane, Rogers, Seymour, A. K. Slieppard,' 



16 



Shield, Sickles, Smith, Spangler, Speight, Stan- 
defer, Sulherlend, Talialerro, Taylor, Toxicey, 
Towns, Turner, Turrill, Underwood, Vanderpoel, 
Wagener, Ward, White, Lewis Williams, Sher- 
rod 'Williams— 117. 

NAYS — Messrs. H. Allen, Ba,iley, Beaumont, 
Bond, Borden, Briggs, Buchanan, W. B. Cal- 
hoim, Carr, G. Chambers, Childs, Clark, Corwin, 
Crane, Cushing, Denny, Everett, P. C. Fuller, J. 
Garland, Glascock, Granger, Grennel, Haley, H. 



Hall, Hard, Harper, Hazeltine, Henderson, Heis- 
ter, Hoar, Holsey, Howell, Hunt, J. |R. Ingersoll, 
William Jackson, Henry F. Janes, John W. 
Jones, Benjamin Jones, Judson, Lane, Laporte, 
Lawrence, Lincoln, Love, Sampson, Mason, 
McCarty, McKennan, Morris, Parker, Patton, 
D. J. Pearce, Phillips, Pickens, Potts, Jr. Reed, 
Robertson, Russel, Schenck, Shinn, Slade, Spra- 
gue. Steele, Storer, John Thomson, Vinton, Ward- 
well, Webster, and E. Whittlesey— 68. 



