57 



STATEMENT OF MR. PHELPS AND OTHERS. 



, The undersigned deems it duty to take the following exceptions 
to the preceding- report. As a v/hole, with the exception of the part 
which refers to the Appeal cont^- ovor o y, it mg-jta — -i»<wikl ^ 
app robation. In regard to this, as it is impos sible here to go into. . y ' ^ 
derail; It IS enOlfgll 16 'say, that, generally, he accords fully vvitFthe ^/h^A^f^^ t 

expresi^ion of opinion upon the subject, first made by the Hoard of k • / /f 

Managers, and afterwards reaffirmed by the society, at Worcester, y*^*^ , ^"''^ 
It will be seen, however, that the passage in the report affirms more ^ 1/- 
than this. It arraigns the parties implicated on a new charge— that^^*'*^'*'^*7 
of treason, disloyalty, not to an individual, not to a given society, f/lfi^' t> 
not to a given way of promoting the cause, but to the ' Anti-Slave- y ^ / 
ry cause ; ' and the attempt is made, by argument and illustration, ' ' 
to substantiate this charge. To this, then, the undersigned declares, , ' 
(1) that, in his opinion, the illustralioiiS and reationmgs upon pp. 
26, 27, are not true to the facts in the case ; (2) that the facts in the , 
case, bad as they are, do not warrant the charge in question; and , ^ 
(3) waiving these points, that there M'as no occasion for siich a cen- 
sure. The society having once passed an opinion on the subject, ^ 
that opinion, if any, should have been incorporated into the annual 
report. To urge the society to the expression of another and differ- 
ent opinion, and especially such an one, and in such away, was im- . 

prOpCT: ¥-4w5-£.. n l yi ym nn ^ . . ... .. ilopHil \ y tli n . nri'lty; in t^lr i M-gy - 

of fraternal conference, when all parties were present, with a ' 
distinct understanding beforehand, by all, that the subject was then 
to come under revision, and with a nearly or quite unanimous vote. P> 
Subsequent events showed, that no other or different expression was • ; • 
needed to preserve the integrity of the cause. The movement in • 
question was virtually dead. A part of the individuals concerned 
were not only laboring in the cause, but doing so, as aforetime, in '- ^ 
connexion wiih the Massachusetts Society They are still doing ' * 

so. No imperious necessity, then, demanded a i'iew'STpressrtun,— but 5 ' 
rather forbade it. Under these circumstances, to put the Society to t Jf 
the test of a new and a different expression of opinion, one so deep- •* % 
ly affecting the character of the persons implicated, and in respect ' 
to which it must have been known that there would be a diversity 
of views am.ong the members — to do it without any intimation to the f.- 
parties implicated, that the matter was to be brought under revision 
anew — or, if it were, that it was to come forward in a ikw shape ■'^$1 
and on trctr frround ; -nnd Jndn it, not only without the consent, but 



without reference to the Boar3~or"']\feTragers, througTT whom, ^ff at 
all, the measure should have been brought forward — this, the un- 
dersigned cannot but regard as an uncalled for and unwarrantable 
proceeding. It was, however, done. The Society was divided in 
opinion. For the sake of harmony, the part of the Report in ques- 
8 



58 



tion was referred to the Board, with instructions to modify it so as 
to divest it of ' unnecessary or personal severity.' It was laid before 
the Board without modification, in the part chiefly objected to. The 
author admitted that it was not essential to the integrity of the 
cause, that the part objected to should be retained, but as he felt 
himself implicated by some of the remarks made on the sub- 
ject at the meeting of the society, he wished the question 
tried. It was tried — seven, Messrs. Jackson, Philbrick, Chapman, 
/ f ^Hilton, Qjii_nry, Knapp, and Fuller, voting for it — two, Messrs. 
, SI . Phelps and Horton, against- it — Mr T.nrinor ngninst tVif. pnssage 
to which particular exception was taken — Mr. Garrison not vot- 
ing ; and six, Messrs. Phillips, Sewall, Shipley, White, Eayrs, 
M and Tingley, being absent. The process of trying the question 
having been gone through with, the author, after all the ado 
.^Jftbout it, requested, and the Board granted him permission to print 
f * ^ the disputed passage, or to not to print it, as he pleased ! 

A word in respect to the Report, as a whole. The Constitution of 
the Society provides, that at each annual meeting, ' the Board, of 
Managers shall make a report of their doings for the past year.' 
I The annual report, therefore, to be constitutional, must be that of the 
Board of Managers, and not that of an individual. Indeed, to 
^ adopt any report, save that which comes from them, and with their 
^ sanction as their report, is to make them and the constitution nonen- 



titles. What, then, are the facts in the present case ? The Corres- 
ponding Secretary was apprised, weeks beforehand, that it would be 
his duty to prepare the report, and was reminded, more than once. 



-. - - . 

>OL to have it ready in season. From various causes, it was delayed 
yiijl the Inst wceT* or uv.u., liuu siokacss mtetvenecl. It was at length 
«^ 1 i begun, and a meeting of the Board was to have been held to hear it 
"5 ^"^n the afternoon of the day before the anniversary. It was not 
^ ready ; and the meeting was notified for 9 o'clock, the next morn- 
ing. Still, the report was not ready ; and it finally went to the So- 
ciety, without ever going before the Board. The part in relation to 



rthe Appeal was prepared subsequently ; and though nothing was 
easier, than to get the Board, or a majority of them, together to 
consider it, it also went direct to the Society, and not to the Board. 
S The whole report, therefore, so far as submitted to the Society, was 
^ brought forward, as it would have been if there had been no such 
*^ body as a Board of Managers in existence. Now, the undersigned 
• * has no wish to be captious, nor unnecessarily strenuous for official 
^ etiquette ; but, as he fully believes that much, if not all of the un- 
, <4 pleasant collision, which has taken place in the present case, might 
have been prevented, had the report come, in the first instance, in 
2^\due form, before the Board, he feels constrained, while he approves 
of the report in the main, to declare his dissent from the passage 
specified, and from the manner in which the report, as a whole, has 
been brought forward. So long as the society has a Constitution 
awd a Board of Managers, so long, at least in important and doubt- 
ful matters, should the one not be violated, and the other not be 
overlooked. 

Boston, April 17, 1838. AMOS A, PHELPS. 



I 




59 

^ While the undersigned, members of the Board, take no responsi- 
Dility in regard to any particular facts stated above, with which they 
,^are not personally acquainted, they accord fully with the sentiments 
*\<'^P^'^ssed. s. G. SHIPLEY, 

. ^JOSEPH H. EAYES, 

' JAMES C. WHITE, 

„ , , , JOTHAM HORTON. 

Boston, April, 17, 1838. 




REPLY OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 

When the ' Clerical Appeal ' was first issued, bro. Phelps was 
foremost m reprobatmg it as an anti-abolition document, both in its 
spirit and pmciples. His reply to it was prompt, vigorous, effectual, 
femce that time, a perceptible and unhappy change has taken place 
m his views of the merits of the ' evangelical ' controversy ; so 
that the cause of his sensitiveness, in regard to that part of the Re- 
port which relates to the ' Appeal,' will be easily understood by 
many abolitionists m Boston and vicinity. In his opinion, the illus- 
trations and reasonings of the Report, on this subject, are not true 
to the facts in the case. I believe that they are true. He thinks, 
moreover, that the facts in the case do not warrant the charge of 

disloyalty., I think-t]iat.tliey_do. Sn f^^ ^t^^ .V^ f^t^Uj at 

variance. - - - 

Now, in what does disloyalty or treachery to a cause consist, if 
not m endeavoring to divide the ranks of its friends— in endorsing 
the false accusations of its enemies — in pursuing such a course as 
gives hope and joy to those who are known to be implacable in 
their feelings toward the cause— in eulogizing the conduct of such ' 
as stand aloof from it, and disdainfully refuse to be associated with 
its steadfast supporters— and in seeking to put down those who 
have suffered most, and toiled longest, in bringing the cause to a 
triumphant termination ? In the parallel which is drawn on page 
26 of the Report, does any one doubt whether such behaviour in the 
revolutionary struggle, as is there imagined, would have been re- 
garded as disloyal to the cause of liberty ? In what particular is the 
parallel defective 1 What one, of all the suppositions contained in 
the illustration, is not substantially, if not literally correct ? In eith- 
er case, there is no other impeachment of motives than is implied 
in the statement of the conduct itself To wink at that conduct, or 
to attribute it to good motives, is not required of ns by kindness or 
charity. When Saul was persecuting'the saints, he verily thought 
he was doing God service. But what was he? The enemy of 
all righteousness — ' the chief of sinners.' If the motives of the sign- 
ers of the ' Appeal ' were pure and loyal, they have not been able 
to satisfy abolitionists of this fact. 



60 



' By their /rM27s,' said the Saviour, ' shall ye know them.' Why? ^ ^ 
Because God alone can read the heart. The question, then, is one 
of fact, not of purity of motive. All are agreed that the conduct of 
Messrs. Fitch, Towne, &c. was disorganizing and schismatical, as ' 
weil as unchristian ; but bro. Ph^gs does not believe lhat their mo- 
tives were crimiml. In this beli^f^^jKe- diller; for 1 think it is ap--^-' ^ 
parent lhat they were actuaied by an acrid sectarian spirit, and de-p^> ^ 
signed, if possible, to give up the reins of the abolition cause into the ^ 
hands of a particular sect. The Report, ho>vever, merely relates i 
their proceedings, leaving the reader to draw his own inferences. 

I now proceed to show, (aside from the decision of the Managers 5 ^ 
and of the Sooi'etv',) that tlie opinions of abolitionists, extensively, % -r 
respecting the dislo3''al conduct of the Appellants, agree with those 
of the Report. And, first, let us hear bro. Phelps. In his faithful , ^ 
and masterly reply to the ' Appeal,' having told its signers, ' It is _ ^ 
some comfort to know, even in an unpleasant and painful way, what 
yoxi are, and where you stand,' he says — 

' Opposition from av6wed opponents is to be expected ; and to 
contend with and meet it, is comparatively eaiy and pleasant. But 
it is far otherwise when one's familiar friend lifts up his heel 
against him. In such case, the task of resistance is difficult, trying 
and unwelcome, and one's heart instinctively shrinks from it, or is 
ready to die within him as he undertakes it. Difficult, trying and 
unwelcome as it may be, however, there are cases in which it must 
be done, and in which silence would be treaclierya.nA. guilt. Such, 
in my judgment, is the present^casC *' * * 

I exceedingly regret, that our opponents have found in yon cham- 
pions for the preferment of charg^es and the defence of positions, 
which should have been preferred and defended by themselves, and 
which seem to me unfounded and unsound. ' Divide and conquer ' 
is an old and a successful policy, I know ; but surely abolitionists 
have, or ought to have enough to do, to fight their own battles, 
without volunteering to fight the battles of their enemies, and giving 
them occasion to exult in their defence. * * * 

The abolitionist minister that puts off his personal identity on 
stepping into a brother's pulpit, and in homage to clerical usage, 
refuses to read an anti-slavery notice, abjures his principles, becomes 
for the time being an anti-abolitionist, makes his brother's censure 
of abolition principles and measures his own, and gives his testimo- 
ny against the slave. Say what he will, this of all others is the 
place, where actions speak, and speak louder than words, and where 
if the man do not act himself, he denies himself and abjures his 
principle s, far m oiia.effectuallv thanj^f he-tUd u-w-jwmfA himself. 

You ' are willing toTdFntTfyyou'rselves with the cause of the 
oppressed, and to do for them as yota, in like circumstances, should 
wish men to do for you' — except ' in a brother's pulpit.' There, 
' his will' must be the circumstance that swallows up all others. 
So that ' principles' or no principles, ' propriety' or no propriety, 



61 



' rights' or no rights, a ' declaration of the truth' or no declaration, 
' identification with the oppressed' or no identification, ' HIS WILL,' 
I speak it reverently, is the great I AM, and neither God nor man 
beside shall make you 'do what you know the presiding pastor 
(Pope ?) disapproves ! ' * * * 

_ There is no despotism on earth, and can be none, civil or eccle- 
siastical, to the very bosom of which, action on such a principle will 
not welcome you; and -in the niidst of which it will not make you 
feel at liome, and leave you unmolested and protected. And why? 
Because the principle is itself the vital element of all despotism, 
and action on it is in harmony with them. The principle is the 
right of one man to make his will, for the time, >.upreme law for 
another.' 

Thus far bro. Phelps. Now if he has not charged the Appellants 
with virtually abandoning anti-slavery ground, acting as champions 
for our opponents, and thus betraying the cause, then language is 
unintelligible. Much more he has written, of the same import. 

No one more quickly perceived the seduious tendency of the 
'Appeal' than William Goodell, and he exposed it manfully and at 
great length. In the course of his strictures, he says — 

' Now is the time for ' Clerical Appeals ' of abolitionists — appeals 
from Andover students — letters from abolition ministers — consulta- 
tions about a new society — letters to distinguished abolitionists in 
other States — and to crown and direct the whole — a new work from 
the pen of Dr. Beeoher. We wait the result with all due compo- 
sure. Lei ii come, if it must come. Give us the ' Appeals ' in 
quick succession, till we know the extent of the defection. Let us 
have the Constitution and Declaration of the new organization. *** 
That they (Messrs. Filch and Towne,) have been made the tools of 
the common adversary in some way, there is little room to doubt. 
The defection of Mr. Towne, in connection with his settlement over 
a vvealthly pro-slavery church, has probably opened the way for the 
whole mischief, so far as the five signers are concerned. But the 
evil lies deeper and spreads wider ; and if we have not mistaken the 
signs of the times, the movements of clerical bodies, and the influence 
at work among clerical abolitionists from iheir pro-slavery associates, 
are pregnant with more dangers to our cause, at the present mo- 
ment, than from gag law, and mob law, with the annexation of 
Texas besides. * * * We repeat it, then. If the struggle must 
come between a pro-slavery clergy, with the aid of clerical scceders 
from abolitionism, banded together against us, let it come ! The 
contest will find not a few who have been little behind the N. H. 
Observer, in their anticipation of the crisis.' 

Joseph H. Kimball, editor of the Herald of Freedom, utters this 
withering condemnation : 

' We doubt not,' say Messrs. Fitch and Towne very complacently 
in protest No. 2, ' we doubt not that, in the Appeal, we have given 



62 



utterance to the views and feelings of nine-tenths of the abolition- 
ists of New-England.' If by the term abolitionists, they mean the 
members of the ' American Union ' and ' Liberian Associations,' 
and the readers of such papers as the Boston Eecorder, New-York 
Observer, Christian Mirror, Vermont Chronicle, and though last 
not least, New-Hampshire Observer, and the New-York Courier, 
and Commercial, and their kin, we doubt not the truth of their as- 
sertion. The din of gratulation which issues from such men is 
almost deafening. Their papers have kept up such a peal of re- 
joicing, that they have almost drowned the 'still small voice' of 
genuine and true-hearted abolitionism ; and as Messrs. Fitch and 
Towne manifest a strange lack of discrimination in their ' Appeal,' 
we are not surprised that they should mistake the triumphant 
shouts of the enemy for the strong approval of their deserted friends. 
Nine tenths ' ! We should like to see a meeting of all the persons 
in New-Hampshire who approve of the ' Appeal.' It would be a 
motley assemblage, such an one as never came together before, but 
it would be lean sport to hunt for abolitionists in it. Tt would be 
quite a different assemblage from that of the ' two hundred ' which 
rnet in this town on the 22d August,* and which adopted a resolu- 
tion quite the reverse, we should think, of the ' views and feelings ' 
of our appellants — as follows : 

Resolved, That we sincerely deprecate the late ' Appeal of Cler- 
ical Abolitionists on Anti-Slavery measures,' as a measure apparent- 
ly undertaken without any adequate motive, and fraught with incal- 
culable mischief to the cause of emancipation ; inasmuch" as it 
tends to divisions, and weakens the exertions of its friends, and 
gives strength and cause for exultation to its foes.' 

Orson S. Murray, editor of the Brandon Telegraph, (the Clark- 
son of Vermont,) expresses his views in very plain language : 

' A merited and timely reprehension of the ' Clerical Appeal,'' 
Vermont Chroyiicle, and all other ' insidious and subtle enemies of 
emancipatio7i.' 

The noble and seasonable doings of the Montpelier Anti-Slavery 
Society, recorded below, are worthy of all praise, and of universal 
imitation. They are worth the more for having originated — as 
they manifestly did — principally or wholly with persons of the 
same religious denomination with the authors of the Appeal, and 
its respondents, the Andover students, Vermont Chronicle, Boston 
Recorder, Portland Mirror, New Hampshire Observer, &c. &c. 
Let each Anti-Slavery Society in New England, at its first regular 
meeting — and lot the impatient call special ,m_eetiug-s==spGak out ia 
regard to~thTS-tT^ac7iefouf7k.^]}eaY, and the base pro-slavery spirits 
who are making a desperate effort to divide the ranks of the only 
Society that ever has done any thing, or ever will do any thing to 
overthrow slavery. The last Vermont Chronicle asserts that ' nine- 

* Delegates to the New-Hampshire Young Men's A. S. Convention. 



63 



tenths of tlie^bolitionists in New-England agree with the Appeal.' 
We d(^jyyjip*»* one-tenth of them agree with it. There may be a 
Judas in every twelve — even this, however, we do not believe.' 

The following were passed among other resolutions by the Mont- 
pelier "A. S. Society, and afterward, verbatim, by the Executive 
Committee of the Pennsylvania State A. S. Society : 

Whereas an Appeal of Clerical Abolitionists of Boston and vicinity, 
signed by Charles Fitch and four others,, has be4n published, pre- 
ferring sundry complaints against the measures of leading abolition- 
ists, and containing various unfounded charges, calculated to pro- 
mote dissensions among the friends of the oppressed, &c. &c. 

Resolved, That the Appeal, signed by Charles Fitch and others, 
and published in the New England Spectator of August 21st, is un- 
called for by any facts before the public, is inconsistent with the 
principles of Christian freedom set forth in the constitution of the 
American Anti-Slavery Society, and eminently calculated to afford 
aid and comfort to the opponents of the anti-slavery cause. 

On a subsequent occasion, Mr. Murray remarks — 

' During my absence, a Circular came to the Telegraph office, 
signed by ' Charles Fitch ' and others, calling a convention for a 
separate Anti-Slavery organization in New England, and asking 
my intluence to forward the work. I have only time and room 
here to file my solemn protest against the whole movement ; and to 
utter my astonishment that these disorganizers should presume to 
make me sucli a proposal, after my distinctly, and repeatedly ex- 
pressed disapprobation of their course. TheTT conduct savors quite 
too much of papacy, and — if I may be allowed the use of the phrase 
— religious aristocracy.' 

N. P. Eogers, of Plymouth, N. H. whose lab ors in the cause need 
no panegyric, writes in the Herald of Freedom as follows : 

' These ' appeals' are cowardly and treacherous. They are an 
offering to the enemy. The enemy will accept the appeals for ha- 
tred of anti-slavery — but they will despise the appellants. But let 
the enemy spare his rejoicing. Let no abolitionist despond. I see 
in these defections from our nominal rank, the most encouraging 
and animating omens. They will advance emancipation more than 
all the mobs that have distinguished the free states. They have 
called the main body of the enemy into the field — among others, the 
pro-slavery divines and their cunning organs, the religious newspa- 
pers. They have ventured, on the strength of these, to quit their 
' armed neutrality' and take ground, — and it must be new ground ; 
Colonization they havo abandoned ; at least as a substitute for 
emancipation. They scarcely broach it at the monthly concert. 
The famous ' American Union' is dead and gone. It is ' dissolved.' 
They will now advance near the anti-slavery lines, and endeavor to 
pitch where they may, if possible, oust the Garrison abolitionists of 
the anti-slavery field.' 



64 



William H. Burleigh, one of the agents of thenB^n A. S. 
Society in Pennsylvania, gives this testimony : ?' ^^^^ 

' What injurious effect the ' Appeal' may have in New England, 
I cannot tell. That it will do no injury, is more than I dare to hope. 
The pro-slavites and the Colonizationists in this State hailed it with 
a yell of triumph. The Colonization Herald has copied it loith 
strong approbation, and calls boldly upon Messrs. Fitch and Towne 
_ & Coy io co7nple^tJieir_£oml ipor^m x_.jo^^'^^G the colonization so- 
ciety ! ' fT ' : ^ - ^ 

To the foregoing might be added (if room would allow) the reso- 
lutions of a large number of anti-slavery societies, in various parts 
of the land, ail declaring that the signers of the ' Appeal ' were pur- 
suing a course fatal to the cause of emancipation, and ought not to 
• retain the confidence or receive the approbation of abolitionists. 

Every event, affecting the stability and prosperity of the State So- 
ciety, is surely a legitimate subject to be animadverted upon in the 
Managers' Keport. Never had the Society or the cause passed 
through so tr34i)g fir>-ov<;Wf^L;_£or,-lo -be ' in perils .oliklae bretiiren,' 
is the greatest of all perils. Of the Report, only four pages are oc- 
cupied in describing the rise, progress and termination of the most 
- subtle and dangerous Sonspiracy which has been made to subvert the 
integrity of our holy cause, and which has created much excitement 
throughout the land ; yet bro. Phelps seems to think that even this 
brief notice of it is too long, or at least unnecessary ! For my own 
part, I think that great forbearance has been dispiayed in pass ing 
over this affair so compiehensively'JVi the Eeport. tie pleads tTiat 
' the movemetrt'in'qTie^tion is-virtually dead.' Well, then an obitu- 
ary notice is surely allowable .' But, though that particular move- 
ment has been frustrated, the spirit which instigated it is not dead. 
No, indeed ! The sectarian snake is merely scotched, not killed. 

The public complaint which bro. Phelps is disposed to make, in 
respect to the preparation of the Report, I n gard as extraordinary, 
and feel to be ' captious ' and unkind, under all the circumstances of 
the case. Some time before the annual meeting, as I was suffering 
from a severe complaint which measurably incapacitated me from 
mental effort, I requested bro. P., more than once, to write the Re- 
port. He declined, on account of his numerous engagements : con- 
sequently, no part of it was prepared in season to be first submitted 
to the Board. This I frankly and explicitly stated at the annual 
meeting. The Society acted upon it, in the first instance, and the 
Board in the second, it being submitted to them by the delegates for 
revision — and it is therefore their joint Report. 

As to the brethren of the Board, whose na mes are ap pended to 
tlv2--stateBaem-<>f-bfTT7-P4ielps, it iiiaj^ srrtfiCe to say, ttiat theywere all 
duly notifie'1 of the meeting at which that part of the Report relating 
to the Appeal would be acted upon by the Board : yet but one of 
them was present to hear it read ! 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 



