rei 757?.8 oc ^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /the Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofthomasma32mars 



'CPmiB SI?I2I2i®3ll 



OP 



THOMAS MARSHALL, 



IN THE 



HOUSE OF DELEGATES OF VIRGINIA, 



ON THE 



ABOLITION OF SLATERY. 



Delivered Friday, January 20, 1832. 



Printed by Thomas W. White. 

1S32. 



r^s 7S>?.B Ao. ^' 



HOUSE OF DELEGATES OF VIRGINIA. 



WEDNESDAY, January U, 1S32. 



Mr. Goode of Mecklenburg, rose to move the following resokuion. 

Resolved, That the select committee raised on the subject of slaves, free negroes, and the 
melancholy occurrences growing out of the tragical massacre in Southampton, be discharged 
from the consideration of all petitions, memorials and resolutions, which have for their ob- 
ject, the manumission of persons held in ."jervitude uuder the existing laws of this common- 
wealth, and that it is not expedient to legislate on the subject. 

Mr. Randolph moved the following substitute, to be inserted after the word "Southamp- 
ton:" 

"be instructed to inquire into the expediency of submitting to the vote of the 

qiialilisd voters in the several towns, cities, boroughs, and counties of this commonw^ealth, 
the propriety of providing by law, that the children of all female slaves, who may be born 
in this slate, on or after the 4th day of July, 1840, shall become the property of the com- 
monwealth, the males at the age of twenty one years, and females at the age of eighteen, if 
detained by their owners wichin the limits of Virginia, until they shall respectively arrive at 
the ages aforesaid, to be hired out until the nett sum arising therefrom, shall be sufficient to 
defray the expense of their removal, beyond the limits of the United Slates, and that said 
com}iiittee have leave to report by bill or otherwise." 



FRIDAY, January 20, 1832. 

On motion of Mr. Marshall Qf Fauquier, the report of Uie committee on slaves, free 
negroes and mulattoes, was taken up. After several members had addressed the house, 

Mr. MARSHALL rose and said, he would offer no apology for throw- 
ing himself upon the notice of the house, weary as it must be of debate, 
but that which is derived from the importance of the subject. Standing 
here as a representative of a county deeply interested in the result — a 
county containing a population of twenty-six tliousand souls, of whom 
nearly equal portions are bond and Iree, he thought he had some 
claim upon the indulgence of the house, while he presented his views 
in relation to tlie great questions which have given rise to this discus- 
sion. 

The whole subject, he said, ought to have been left with the com- 
mittee. Nothing was more to be regretted than the attempt to change 
its original destination, and nothing more to be deprecated than a pre- 
n)ature discussion in this house. The direction given to all the me- 
morials, in the first instance, was conformable to the regular course of 
parliamentary proceedings. In committee, the subject might have been 
safely examined in all its bearings, with minute attention to details; 
and the most delicate questions might have been freely discussed, 
without agitating the public mind. Crude speculations, and visiona- 
ry projects, would there have had an embryo existence — as short tts it 



was harmless. Conflicting^ opinions, and discordant plans, might 
there have mingled in elemental strife; but order woidd eventual- 
ly have sprung oiU of chaos; and the committee, rejecting every 
thing impracticable or unsafe, would most probably have reported 
some well digested plan, suited to the public expectation, and calcula- 
ted to reduce the burden which presses on the state. Gentlemen had 
vainly hoped, by discharging tiie committee from the consideration of 
this subject, to arrest further discussion; and had as vainly mani- 
fested their intention to check all further inquiry, and show that the 
Virginia assembly will not entertain a proposition which has emanci- 
pation for its object. Sir, what has been the consequence? The door 
has been thrown open to unlimited debate; the effort to preclude it 
has failed; and the subject stands before us in all its awful reality. 

In the present aspect of the case, he was constrained to vote both 
against the original resolution, and the substitute offered by the gentle- 
man from Albemarle. Pursuing the order in which the vote must be 
taken, he would begin by stating his objections to the substitute. 

The first and most satisfactory reason is, that the public mind is not 
prepared for the question of abolition. The members of this Legis- 
lature were not elected in reference to it. Let a subject of local cha- 
racter, however trivial, be presented for your consideration, and you 
refuse to interfere unless notice had been given. Shall we — ought we, 
to legislate on a subject of universal and surpassing interest, without 
an unequivocal expression of the public will? We maj', individually, 
hazard our several persons or property in any manner that we like, 
but we have no right to jeopard the persons or property of other peo- 
ple; and we are bound to consult the wishes of our constituents as to 
the mode of exercising the powers which they have confided to us. 
Have they given us authority to legislate on a subject which had ne- 
ver been discussed, and on which discussion was not expected? Since 
the melancholy occurrence at Southampton, the public attention has 
been forcibly drawn to the subject of our colored population, and 
many schemes have been suggested for diminishing the evils of slave- 
ry; but it was not until the meeting of tlds body — na}^ until this vteek, 
that the question of abolition was seriously discussed. All laws, to 
be efHcient, must be sustained by public sentiment. Without this 
sanction, they cannot long remain upon your statute book; they may 
do mischief, they never can do good; — but, resting on the deep, and 
broad, and permanent basis of public opinion, they are omnipotent. 
It is not sufficient to say that this law would have no immediate effect — 
that time would be given to the people to modify or cancel it at their 
pleasure. Any legislative action on the subject, though wholly pros- 
pective, though totally inoperative for forty years, would have a pre- 
sent and powerful effect. The mere expression of opinion by the le- 
gislature would have a substantial influence. It would be proclaimed 
from the house-tops; it would reach the deepest recesses of your fo- 
rests, and be echoed from the loftiest summits of your mountains. It 
is not sufficient to say that the question will be propounded to the 
people for adoption on rejection. Sir, the public agitation of this sub- 
ject would convulse this commonwealth. There are other modes of 
ascertaining public sentiment, without forcing this question upon the 



people for promiscuous discussion; and if sustained by public senti- 
ment, the measure will assuredly be adopted. 

He objected to the substitute, in the second place, because it is too 
specific. Instead of proposing a principle, it offers a peculiar plan, 
obnoxious to many and very great objections. It suggests a par- 
ticular mode of effecting a general object. The committee, under 
such instruction, would be tied down to a single course. No latitude 
of choice would be allowed them — no selection of the best means to 
obviate the dangers which must ever attend any measure of the kind, 
or to guard and preserve the rights of property. In reference to this 
last subject, he could not agree with the gentleman from Berkeley 
(Mr. Faulkner), who had just addressed the house. That gentle- 
man contended that the right of property could not be enjoyed in sub- 
jects which had no existence — that slaves not yet born had no exis- 
tence, and therefore no property in them could be exercised or claimed. 
Hence lie has inferred, that a law of a prospective character, de- 
signed to take effect solely in relation to the post nati, or those slaves 
who shall be born after the passage of the law, would not be a viola- 
tion of vested rights. Sir, the gentleman's argument proves too much, 
and is therefore not sound. By parity of reasoning he might show 
that the legislature has a right to appropriate the crops hereafter 
raised upon my land. The harvest is not yet matured, the grain itself 
is not yet sown ; and if the mere fact of non-existence is to give au- 
thority for legislation, where is the difference between taking away 
the future produce of my land, and the future increase of my slave ^ 
The truth is, the existence of the after-born, though not actual, is po- 
tential, and constitutes an element of present value. There is but one 
ground on which the right of legislative iiiterference, whether present 
or prospective, can ever be placed — necessity — stern, unyielding neces- 
sity; requiring the sacrifice of private right for public good. When- 
ever the tranquillity and security of society shall imperiously demand 
this sacrifice, the rights of property must yield to the preservation of 
happiness and life; but still it is a sacrifice, and one for which com- 
pensation should be made, if within the competency of the state. It 
may be asked what evidence is required of this necessity. Are we to 
wait until some dire and disastrous insurrection shall occur — bursting 
with sudden fury, like the eruption of a volcano, and desolating the 
country to a wide extent? He would say. No; — he would not wait 
for such fatal proof. Whenever the uniform, sustained, tranquil, and 
undeviating voice of a clear majority of this people shall say their 
happiness and security require a gradual emancipation, he would ac- 
quiesce in the measure; he would, by timely precaution, endeavour to 
avert that portentous cloud, which already blackens the horizon, and 
which threatens, at some future day, to pour its fury on our heads. 

This last consideration suggests the idea of a third objection to the 
substitute, namely; that the premature and unauthorised agitation of 
the measure is calculated to defeat the hope of its being adopted at 
any future time, and under circumstances more propitious. He was 
well aware of the delicacy of this subject, and the difiiculties which envi- 
ron it. The fabric of society, like the monuments of architectural 
skill, requires time and toil for its completion — the labor of years is 



necessary to give stability and beauty — but the work of destruction is 
the work of a moment/ Errors in science may mislead without injur- 
ing- the community— philosophers may wander harmlessly in the mazes 
of metaphysics, or I'abricate ingenious theories in natural science, while 
mankind pursue in quiet their ordinary vocations : but the opinions of 
the legislator, when clothed in the garb and armed with the attributes 
of law, have so direct, and often so pernicious an influence on the 
peace and happiness of society, that they ought to be maturely con- 
sidered, before they are publicly proclaimed. He did not seek this dis- 
cussion ; he regretted tliat a syllable had been uttered on the subject 
of abolition — but it has agitated this house, and will agVtate the peo- 
ple. The utmost latitude of debate had already been tolerated, and 
no benefit could now accrue from the forbearance of any member to 
express, in temperate and considerate terms, his sentiments on the gene- 
ral question. If he thought otherwise, his lips would be hermetically 
sealed; but Mr. M. said he felt himself at liberty to say that he was 
opposed to slavery as a practical evil, particularly in that part of the 
country where he was best acquainted— exclusively a grain-growing 
region — and if all concurred with him, the day would ultimately come, 
when the evil would disappear. He objected to slavery, not because 
it implies moral turpitude, or because it is a sin to be the owner of a 
slave. If it be a sin, then let the censure fall on those who intro- 
duced the evil, and have transmitted it to their offspring. VVe suffer 
the consequence of their trangression — " The fathers have eaten sour 
grapes, and the childrens' teeth are set on edge." It is a law of our 
nature, immutable as the will of Him who is the Author of Nature, 
that the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children. But why 
censure only our colonial ancestors.^ England, who fastened upon us 
the nefarious traffic, who rejected every solicitation for relief from its ap- 
palling consequences, and who now consumes, and profits by the pro- 
duce of their labor — England ought first to atone for her participation 
in the guilt. If it be a sin, then let those who were the vile panders of 
the crime, who brought them to our shores for the profits of the voy- 
age, and had not the poor excuse of requiring their labor in the culti- 
vation of the soil — let them wash their polluted hands by some great 
act of national expiation before they lift them in prayer to heaven's 
majesty for the abolition of slavery. No, Sir; if slavery be a sin, we 
cannot, collectively or individually, be deemed culpable, until some 
wise, well digested, safe, practicable plan for its abolition, shall have 
been offered to our acceptance, and shall have been deliberately re- 
jected. 

Nor is it because of its demoralizing tendency that slavery should 
be abolished. The slaves are ignorant, it is true ; and therefore it 
may be inferred, that much vice prevails among them, but he ques- 
tioned whether they are not as exempt from the commission of gross 
crime as the lowest classes of any other country. With regard to the 
white portion of our community, the citizens of Virginia, of either sex, 
may lay as just a claim to purity of morals, to elevation of thought 
and action, to probity in all the transactions of life, as the citizens of 
any other state, or the people of any other country on the globe. 

Again: — The ordinary condition of the slave is not such as to make 



humanity weep for liis Int. Compare his condition with tliut of the 
labourer in any part of. Europe, and you will find him blessed with a 
measure of happiness, nearly, if not altogether equal. He could say 
this, with great confidence, of that part of Virginia where lie resided. 
The negro there is perfectly happy — he is treated with the most in- 
dulgent kindness — he is required to do the same work, and no more, 
that is performed by the white man — he is clothed with the best fabrics 
of the factories, and he is fed literally with the fat of the land. It is 
not for his sake, then, nor to ameliorate his condition, that abolition is 
desirable. Wherefore, then, object to slavery? Because it is ruinous 
to the whites — retards improvement — roots out an industrious popu- 
lation — banishes tlie yeomanry of the country — deprives the spinner, 
the weaver, the smith, the shoemaker, the carpenter, of employment 
and support. This evil admits of no remedy; it is increasing, and 
will continue to increase, until the whole country will be inundated 
with one black wave covering its whole extent, with a few white faces 
here and there floating on the surface. The master has no capital 
but what is vested in iiuman flesh; the father, instead of being richer 
for his sons, is at a loss to provide for them — there is no diversity of 
occupations, no incentive to enterprise. Labor of every species is 
disreputable, because performed mostly by slaves. Our towns are 
stationary, our villages almost every where declining; and the general 
aspect of the country marks the curse of a wasteful, idle, reckless popu- 
lation, who have no interest in the soil, and care not how much it is im- 
poverished. Public improvements are neglected, and the entire con- 
tinent does not present a region for which nature has done so much, 
and art so little. If cultivated by free labor, the soil of Virginia is ca- 
pable of sustaining a dense population, anlDug whom labor would be 
honorable, and where "the busy hum of men" would tell that all were 
happy, and that all were free. 

Mr. IM. tlien proceeded to state his objections to the original reso- 
lution. It w^as the primar}^ if not t!ie sole design of the gentleman 
who presented it, to arrest all further proceedings on the subject of ge- 
neral emancipation ; but the words of the resolution are, " the manumis- 
sion of persons held in servitude under the existing laws of this com- 
monwealth." If the proposition should succeed, the corTimittee will 
be restricted from considering not only the subject of abolition, which 
would be an act of the state, but private manumission likewise, which 
is now allowed to individuals on certain conditions, and the future re- 
gulation of which will constitute an important feature in the plan for 
removal of emancipated slaves, to which he proposed hereafter to call 
the attention of the house. Considering the resolution, however, as 
intended to prevent any further action by the committee on the subject 
of slaves generally, he should, for that reason, object to it. Although 
perfectly satisfied that we have not tiie public sanction for any scheme 
of general emancipation, he was equally convinced that it was proper 
to do something which might have the eflect of tranquillizing the pub- 
lic mind, by checking the increase of the slaves. Wh}', from the ear- 
liest period of our history, until the massacre at Southampton, was a 
silence, deep and awful as that of death, observed upon this subject.^ 
Why was it forbidden in legislative debate, or to the public press, and 



spoken only in mysterious whispers around the domestic hearth ? — Be- 
cause a sense of security required, or was thought to require this course. 
Why sir, is this mystery now dispelled? Why has the grave opened 
its "ponderous and marble jaws?" Why is the subject openly and 
freely discussed in every place, and under every form? — because a 
general" sense of insecurity pervades the land, and our citizens are 
deeply impressed with the belief that something must be done. The 
numerous petitions and memorials which crowd your table furnish 
abundant evidence of this truth. They may mistake the remedy, but 
they indicate most clearly that some action is imperiously required at 
our hands— that the evil has attained a magnitude which demands all 
the skill and energy of prompt and able legislation. It is contended 
on the other hand that nothing efficient can be accomplished, and that 
any proceeding by this legislature will reduce the value of property, 
and endanger the security of the people. With respect to the first con- 
sideration, he would say — that the price of property can never be in- 
juriously affected, by a system which would operate on that portion 
only of the slaves who belong to masters desirous to liberate them, or 
to sell them for their own benefit at a reduced rate. The efiect, if any, 
upon the residue, must be to enhance their value. As to the other and 
the more serious objection, he would remark, that it constitutes, and 
must forever constitute, an obstacle to abolition ; requiring all the wis- 
dom' and discretion of legislature and people : — but the plan of re- 
moving the blacks now free, and those who maybe hereafter liberated 
by individuals, or of purchase and removal, carries no danger with it. 
If, indeed, the whole labric shall totter to its fall, when touched by the 
gentlest hand, it must rest on a precarious foundation. If danger lurk 
under just benignant legislation, aiming to relieve both the master and 
slave — to combine justice with humanity — will the period ever come 
when it will be safe to act? But, admitting that the subject cannot 
be approached without danger now, the great question for us to de- 
termine is, whether by delay it may not become fearfully worse, and 
in process of time attain a magnitude far transcending our feeble 
powers. We owe it to our children to determine whether we or they 
shall incur the hazard of attempting something. Gentlemen say, let 
things alone — -the evil will correct itself. Sir, vi'e may let things alone, 
but they will not let us alone. We cannot arrest the march of time, 
nor stop the current of events. We cannot change the course of na- 
ture, nor prevent the silent but sure operation of causes now at work. 
Emigration of the whites, and a disproportionate increase of the black 
population, tend to one and the same result. Virginia occupies a 
position, with regard to the northwestern states, where slavery is un- 
known, which strongly invites to emigration. The distance is not so 
great but that a family may be removed in any of the autumnal 
months, after their crop has been disposed of, and before the rigors 
of winter commence. Similar facilities do not exist in the more 
southern states; and when the white man moves from thence, he pro- 
bably takes with him a portion of his slaves. The other cause, act- 
ing simuhaneously with this, deserves a more particular notice. A 
document presented this day — the census of the United States — exhibits 



8 

this Important fact : — the whole number of slaves in Eastern Virginia 

under 10 years of age is 147,680 

Whites do. do. 116,354 



Majority of slaves 3 1 ,326 

We have no exact data by which to estimate the relative numbers 
of any other ages, because the census does not exhibit a comparative 
statement above ten years of age; but the truth may be approximated 
sufficiently to show, that the disparity diminishes in proportion as the 
ages increase : in other words, that the difference between the number 
of slaves and white persons at this time, in Eastern Virginia, is small 
compared with what it will be in the next generation. This rapid 
increase among the blacks must be ascribed principally to the fact, 
that they are without anxiety for the means of subsistence ; that they 
have no care about the nurture and support of children ; and conse- 
quently form early connexions. Again ; — the increase of slaves in 
Virginia, from 1820 to 1830, was 44,571, or rather more than 10 per 
cent. Tiie ratio of increase among all the slaves in the United States 
was 36 per cent, in the same term. It is reasonable to suppose that 
but for the immense exportation, the increase of slaves here would 
have been in the same proportion, and the actual addition to our 
stock, instead of the number above-mentioned, would have been 
153,055; making a difference of 108,484. This statement shows 
how entirely dependent we are upon the legislation of other states for 
a vent to the excess of our slave population. If that vent should be 
closed, there will be an increase in the next ten years, at 36 per cent, 
of 169,000. But gentlemen contend earnestly that there is no seri- 
ous reason to apprehend prohibition by other states. If they be cor- 
rect, and he trusted they were so, the increase, judging of the fu- 
ture by the past, will barely exceed 48,000, or 4,800 per annum. 

Gentlemen assure us that the danger of insurrection has blown over — 
that the massacre of Southampton was a small affair. It was small, 
when we regard the numbers originally concerned in the atrocious 
plot; but this circumstance was one of the most alarming facts in the 
case — that so few men, ignorant and without arms, should have attempted 
so vast a scheme, and perpetrated such extensive murders. He be- 
lieved that no plan of general insurrection could be carried into suc- 
cessful operation. The intelligence, power, resources — and above 
all — habit of command, and mutual confidenice, are all on one side; on 
the other, ignorance, distrust, and dread of punishment — a punish- 
ment prompt, awful, and universal ; involving alike the innocent and 
guilty in its sweeping and sanguinary course. The best concerted 
plans would, therefore, be speedily put down, without foreign aid, by 
Eastern Virginia alone. But should a partial massacrp occur, time 
would be necessarily required for imbodying even the local militia; 
and, in the interval, many valuable lives may be lost. Will it be any 
consolation for him, whose wife and children are butchered, if he is 
left to mourn the catastrophe, that only 60 or 70 are killed, and that 
the insurrection does not extend beyond his immediate vicinage? 
What is possible to all, will be felt as probable by each. Every indi- 
vidual will apprehend that the spot on which he stands, conceals the 



9 

subterrane'an fire. Sir, the uneasiness felt in reference to this subject, 
is natural. All men are aflected by dangers which are unseen, but 
known to exist. It is a remark of Caesar, when adverting to a panic 
with wiiich his soldiers had been seized, on the occasion of a simulta- 
neous attack, accompanied wiih great clamor, made on all parts of 
the line, that each man felt his own safety to be involved in the dan- 
ger which existed elsewhere; and adds, that the minds of men are com- 
monly most disturbed by dangers which dd not appear.* 

This principle of human nature is sufficient to account for what at first 
had given him very great surprise — the excitement which prevailed in 
places far removed from the scene of the late disturbances. The accounts 
first publishedof the real transaction were singularly accurate in all the 
melancholy details, and produced a universal feeling of sympathy for 
the sufferers, and horror at the assassins. Had the matter rested there, 
tranquillity would soon have been restored; but the sad reality was 
scarcely known, before rumor, with her hundred tongues, began to scat- 
ter vague and unfounded tales of insurrectionary movements else- 
where, and succeeded in producing a general disquietude. That time 
will correct this excited state of feeling, he did not doubt; but time 
will not diminish the cause which must ever subject us to the recur- 
rence of such events, nor prevent consequences at which humanity 
must shudder. Every man who reflects at all, must reflect with deep 
and earnest solicitude upon a subject which is becoming daily and 
hourly more important. Every one must see and lament the progress 
of an evil which reasoning cannot check, nor argument avert. In vain, 
too, would we close our eyes upon the changes which are occurring 
elsewhere, and which show, conclusively, that in other countries, where 
slavery is now tolerated, it will ultimately be abolished. We have 
every reason to believe that in our immediate neighborhood — in the 
British West India islands — a general emancipation will follow as 
the necessary consequence of the great measure of Reform now agita- 
ted in the British Parliament. With so fearful an exhibition before us, 
does not every man feel that his security would be most seriously im- 
paired? 

But the question will be asked, what remedy do you propose for 
this growing evil? To this he would reply — strike at the annual in- 
crease of the colored population— endeavour to remove gradually as 
many of the blacks who are now free, and of those who may hereaf- 
ter be emancipated for that purpose, as the resources of this great 
commonwealth will permit. Put your shoulder to the wheel, and then 
call on Hercules to help you. Invoke the aid of the United States, in 
the promotion of these objects, and the ulterior one of purchase and 
deportation. Let every man retain his slave who wishes to keep him; 
and let the fund for transportation, or for purchase and removal, be 
exclusively under State control. 

Some gentlemen direct their whole policy— or rather level their 
whole artillery, against the free blacks; and recommend a systera of 
coercive measures, if persuasion should fail. They seem to think that 

* Mtil'tum ad ietmndou nostros valuit elamor, qui post tergum pyf nantibais exstitit, quod 
suum perjeulum in aliena vident virtute mmkt§x&, Omnia enim pferumqiae quae abswnt, ve» 
hemeiuius betninum mentsg pertwbarit.—DE BEtLo Gal, Lib. ViI. Cat, 84, 

2 



10 

every purpose of security will be effected by their removal, liowever 
harsh the mode. To him, Mr. M. said, this plan appeared to be as 
unwise, as it is oppressive. No doubt a class of that description, 
when sufficiently numerous, is peculiarly dangerous to society. En- 
joying partially the blessings of liberty, imperfectly educated, endued 
wi(h power to go where inclinalion leads, responsible to no one for 
theemployment of their time, having much of the degradation without- 
,. the salutary restraints of slavery, they would, in the course of years, 
' behomcextremely dangerous. -At present, they are mischievous in 
proportion as they are idle, and ought to be removed when they have 
no visible means of subsistence ; but there is no evidence of a disposi- 
tion on their part to join in revolt, or disturb the public tranquillity. 
They are content to enjoy the limited freedom which the laws permit, 
and which they feel themselves to hold by the tenure of good beha- 
viour. They cling with fond tenacity to the country of their birth, 
and may possibly constitute no inconsiderable barrier to a future in- 
surrection of the slaves. To make them our enemies, and drive them 
to despair, would certainly be hazardous. Banishment would have 
the effect of peopling the free states with men execrating the country 
which had expelled them — who, here, are comparatively harmless, but 
driven thither, would possess and exercise the means of annoyance. 
Different, widely different, would be the feelings of those who sub- 
mitted to removal as the condition of freedom. They would regard 
' with a beaming eye and a joyous heart the vessel which was to bear 
them to the land of their ancestors. All that it seems necessary or 
proper to do in regard to the negroes now free, is to remove the annual 
increase. A sufficient number for this purpose will accrue from vo- 
luntary emigration, and from the power given to county courts to ex- 
pel them when a burden to the community. 

The annual increase of this class is computed at 1 ,200 ; that of slaves 
at 4,800; — and the annual removal of both classes, in that proportion, 
and to that amount, would have the double effect of preserving the 
ratio now existing between them, and of keeping the total amount of 
colored population at its present point, while the white would gradu- 
ally, we may hope, rapidly increase. 

It is found by experience, that the sum of $35 per head is sufficient 
to defray the expenses incident to the African voyage, and subsistence 
for six months after arrival. The whole sum necessary for the re- 
moval of 6,000 persons, would be $210,000; but as some time must 
unavoidably elapse before the plan could be carried into full and 
successful operation, one-fourth of that sum would suffice for the 
present year, and one-half for the next. A gradual increase of taxes 
will be necessary; and as the benefit of the scheme is progressively 
developed, will, no doubt, be paid with increasing cheerfidness. But 
a question occurs : To what place shall we look for a suitable asy- 
lum? None presents itself at present, but Liberia, on the western 
coast of Africa, where the colony is in actual possession of a terri- 
tory extending 150 miles along the coast, and running 30 miles into 
the interior; where nature riots in the richest luxuriance; and where 
we see the germ of a thriving settlement, destined, at no distant day, 
to become the seat of arts, commerce, and civilization. Already has it 



attained a population of about twenty-two hundred, at an expense of 
less than $150,000; whereas, the early settlements of Virginia did 
not reckon that number, after an interval of 18 years, and an expen- 
diture of more than $650,000. The present state of the colony, will 
not admit a greater addition to its population, than 1000, during the 
present year; next year, its capacity will be so far increased, as to re- 
ceive 2000 more; and so on, every year, in arithmetical progression. 
But no limit, in fact, can be assigned to the growing capacity of a 
flourishing settlement, after it attains vigor and stabiiit3^ The num- 
ber of emigrants into the United States, in 1827, from Great Britain 
and Ireland alone, was 23,000; and this accession was not sensibly 
perceived, although confined to the northern section of the ujiion. — 
Mr. M. was by no means desirous to restrict emigration to Liberia. 
He would ask the United States government to procure some addi- 
tional place, or places, to which colored emigrants might go. A 
similar application was once made while Mr. Jefferson was president 
of the United States, and Col. Monroe governor of Virginia. There 
can be no reason why it should not now be renewed. 

Auxiliary to this scheme, but not necessarily connected with it, is 
a plan for the purchase and removal of slaves. If a fund for this 
object can be provided, great advantages may be expected from its 
use. Many masters are unable to give away their slaves, who would 
be content to sell them at a very reduced rate ; perhaps at half price, 
for the benefit of the slaves themselves. They require some fund to 
■hire labor in the cultivation of their land. Humanity restrains them 
from selling to the traders who purchase for the southern markets, 
and thus they continue to hold a property of which they would gladly 
divest themselves. Offices for purchasing, could be established in 
different counties; and a maximum price, for various ages, be fixed by 
Jaw. The effect would be immense; and in no other way could any 
given sum produce such great results. 

But here again it will be asked, in what way shall the money be 
obtained for making these purchases.^ Sir, the proceeds of the public 
lands are at the disposal of congress. The constitution of the United 
States has expressly placed them under their control, and they are 
bound to use them for the public good. Distribution, in various 
modes, has been suggested ; and it is proper that Virginia, in the 
event of distribution, should indicate the mode which would be ac- 
ceptable to her. There is not a member of congress who has mani- 
fested any other feeling than that of the most scrupulous delicacy in 
regard to the subject of slavery, and who has not considered it as so 
vitally interesting to the southern members of the confederacy, that 
they alone have the right to suggest the policy which it requires. Let 
an intimation come from Virginia, and it will be hailed with delight. 
The fund to be appropriated, will be readily subjected, in its appli- 
cation, to her exclusive management and direction. It was not his 
intention, however — far from it — to hold out the idea, that distribution 
of those proceeds among the several states, would b^ a proper mea- 
sure in itself. On the contrary, a just and enlightened policy demands 
that they should be kept together, and applied to some great object 
of national concern. What object, he would ask, can be more worthy 



12 

of tins nalion, or this age, than the removal from the several states, 
with their voluntary concurrence, and under their immediate control, 
of as many slaves as their masters may choose to part with, and as 
. the fund is competent to purchase? The annual sales of the public 
lands are estimated at $3,000,000; a sum sufficient for the purchase, 
in families, and removal to Africa, of :20,000 slaves per annum. Our 
just proportion of this sum, if applied to this single ol)ject, would be 
more than sufficient to purchase and remove the whole annual increase 
of slaves in this commonwealth. But let not reliance be placed on 
this resource alone. Our citizens have asked that measures may be 
taken, for so amending the constitution of the United States, as to 
invest congress with the right of appropriating money for the removal 
of free negroes ; and in some instances, the petitioners have required 
that the powers of congress should be so enlarged as to purchase and 
remove slaves likewise. It may be laid down as a principle, from 
which no departure is admissible, that congress has no right to inter- 
fere in our domestic concerns in such a manner as to affect the rela- 
tion of master and slave. They must not be permitted to disturb 
that relation. But certainly there is wisdom enough in Virginia to 
devise, and courage enough to propose, such an amendment to the 
federal constitution, as would give to congress the power of appro- 
priation for this vast and momentous object, and to the states, the 
application of the fund. The benefits which may flow from this source 
are incalculable. There is no limit to the power and resources of the 
nation, devoted to the execution of a plan which wisdom and humanity 
concur to recommend. Virginia would have the iionor, the imperish- 
able honor, of having led the van in this npble enterprise. Her sons 
would cease to emigrate — the exile would return to his paternal fields — 
and millions yet unborn will rise to call her blessed. 



