THE 



JLs 



SECOND REPORT, 

OF THE 

FOR 

CLIFTON, BRISTOL, 

AND ITS NEIGHBOURHOOD, 



IN AID OF 



THE CAUSE 



NE&XtO £SMANCIFATIOM» 



Printed by T. D. CLARK, 17, St, Michael's Hill. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/secondreportoffeOOfema 



^uvttavUs, 



For BRISTOL. 
Miss WARING 
Miss DRAPER 



For CLIFTON. 
Mrs. ROBERTS 
TheHon.E.POWYS, A.s. 



Treasurer, Mrs. AUSTIN. 



Committee. 



Mrs. ASH 
Mrs. BADHAM 
Mrs. BOWDLER 
Miss COWAN 
Mrs. DRAPER 
Mrs. FOWLER 
Mrs. GILPIN 
Mrs. GODWIN 
Mrs. J. HARE 



Mrs. J. LUNELL 

Mrs. H. MORE 
Mrs, MORTIMER 
Miss MILLARD 
Miss M. ROBERTS 
Mrs. R. SMITH 
Miss TOWNS END 
Miss WRIGHT 
Miss YOUNG 



Mrs. SCHIMMELPENNINCK. 



REPORT. 



Inf presenting their Second Annual Report, your 
Committee would acknowledge^ with gratitude, the 
countenance and support which they continue to receive f 
they cannot, indeed, boast of very extensive additions to 
the numbers of the Society, for it is obvious, that in 
Bristol an Anti-Slavery Association will have to encounter 
peculiar and local hindrances ; yet we are cheered from 
time to time, with accessions both to our Subscribers 
and to our Committee, for which we desire to feel thank -^ 
ful and encouraged. We have not, however, prosecuted 
our unobtrusive labours without meeting opposition, 
and suffering (perhaps unintentional) misrepresentation. 
We are, in the first place, charged with being adverse to 
all plans for ameliorating the condition, and gradually, 
through the means of Christian Education, of elevating 
the Negro character. Wherever this has been thought 
or expressed, we declare it to be a mistake ; for, collec- 
tively and individually, we rejoice in every effort that 
is made to lighten the bonds of Slavery, and, most of all, 
in loosening the fetters of ignorance which hold the soul 
captive; we welcome every hand employed in raising 
the fallen, and bringing them to the knowledge of the 



Saviour, who alone can bestow liberty upon the soul, 
even where the body is fast bound in misery and iron ; 
but we acknowledge that we do continue to deprecate 
those exertions which are limited to amelioration 
merely, nor can we be satisfied with any substitute for 
the object which we have at heart, — the ultimate full 
Emancipation of the Slaves in our Colonies. We confess, 
also, that we have felt the impartation of mere oral 
instruction to be, in most cases, but giving the lowest 
degree of education, and though what was taught might 
have the aweful sanction of '*thus saith the Lord,'' yet, 
with no further instruction, we have feared the impres- 
sion left upon the mind would prove far too slight to 
enable those w4io had received, to retain it, amidst the 
temptations and corrupt practices incident to the condi- 
tion of Slavery. Another fear has also arisen, least teach- 
ing the revealed commandments of God to those who 
would subsequently be placed in a situation where it 
would scarcely be possible to obey them, might be an 
act of irreverence towards the Lawgiver, and might ag- 
gravate the condemnation of those whom it was professed 
to intend to benefit ; we allude to the Decalogue and 
especially to the Fourth Commandment, we might also 
say to the Fifth and Seventh, and indeed to every one: 
for how is the Sabbath to be kept holy by those who are 
compelled to labour on that day, unless they can endure 
the alternative of starving? and who have no other time 
or place, in which to dispose of the fruit of their labours, 
but what is afforded amidst the riot aud tumult of a Sun- 
day market, and to this state of things the exceptions 



7 

are, we fear, very rare;* or how is the child to honour 
the parent upon whom he is compelled to inflict personal 
chastisement? and how can the sanctity of the marriage 
tie be respected by those, amongst whom it is so little 
encouraged or its obligation enforced ? Even a higher 
degree of Christian education, — however morally and in- 
tellectually beneficial to the degraded Africans, as tend- 
ing to elevate them to some participation of tlie privi" 
leges of rational intelligent beings, — is yet, we conceive, 
but a poor equivalent for the wrongs they have received 
at the hands of those called their Owners, since it is a 
favour which may any moment be withdrawn, at the 
pleasure of their Masters ; " but while we thus endeavour 
to point out how far short all these plans fall of the object 
at which we aim, and repeat that, as a compensation for 
retaining the dreadful system of Colonial Slavery, we 
never can accept them, nor unite sanctioning them, yet, 
as tending to fit and prepare these most unhappy beings 

* Oh that all those engaged in imparting Christian 
instruction to the Slaves, and those at home who sup- 
port these benevolent efforts^ would unite in intreating, 
in demanding from the Planters (as an unequivocal 
pledge of their sincerity in desiring the moral improve- 
ment of their Slaves) that they would give up the Sab- 
bath to Him who is the Lord of it, and set it apart for 
his service ; that on this hallowed day of rest the Ne- 
groes might be taught to love and serve him, and obey 
his commandments; until this is done, the labour of the 
Christian instructors will lose its reward. 



8 



for the safe restitution of their natural rigiits as men, 
and as indicating some sympathy and compassion, how- 
ever tardy, in the deep debasement of the oppressed 
Africans, we hail them as the evidence of a better tone of 
feeling : we rejoice in them, we wish them success, and 
both collectively and individually have, according to our 
ability, aided many of their funds ; always reserving to 
ourselves the right of insisting that amelioration and 
emancipation are points far distant, which must not be 
confounded with each other j and entreating those in 
whose hearts there have been awakened any feelings of 
compassion and justice towards the Slaves, not to be 
deluded, nor seek to satisfy the clamors of conscience 
by the fallacious notion that, in assisting to educate the 
Negroes, they have done all that is required of them. — 
Let education go on ! may many more channels of Chris- 
tian instruction be opened, and may they all fertilize the 
moral desert, and may they all, in making known the 
word of God, bring light into the darkness, the gross 
darkness which covers this people ! but let education be 
considered only as a preparation, a preliminary to eman- 
cipation, whenever the Legislature shall see fit to grant 
the boon. 

Female Associations have been deemed useless, and 
they have been censured as unbecoming — but if they 
were useless they would provoke no opposition : they 
might excite a transcient smile, and then would be for- 
gotten. It is not, perhaps, generally known, that the 
Jirst impulse given to the public feeling on the subject 
of Slavery, which ultimately led to the abolition of the 



9 



trade, was communicated by Females j but the follow- 
ing is an authentic account of the commencement of that 
mighty work to which so much piety, ability, and per- 
severance have been devoted. 

Before the subject of Slavery was brought under the 
consideration of the British Parliament, a Mr. Ramsay, 
who had held some civil employment in the West Indies, 
returned to England, and entered the Miaistry. He was 
settled in the neighbourhood of B— — , where two La- 
dies resided, with whom, from his profession, he was in 
habits of frequent intercourse. The scenes he had wit- 
nessed of cruelty and oppression exercised upon the hap- 
less Negroes, had left a deep and abiding impression on 
his mind, and were often the subject of his conversation ; 
and, at the suggestion of his friends, and under the con- 
viction that the public were ignorant of the existence of 
these dreadful evils, he published a book containing a 
statement of them. This produced violent opposition, and 
received a flat denial of the truth of his allegations; 
indeed, so virulent and vindictive was the hostility he 
encountered, that he went to his grave with his days em- 
bittered, if not shortened by it; but before this, the two 
female friends who had believed his report, and partici- 
pated in his painful concern for the poor Slaves, when 
this discredit was attempted to be thrown upon his tes- 
timony, by those concerned in the West India trade* 
enquired whether the facts so positively denied, rested 
upon his own unsupported testimony, and whether, in a 
Christian country, these things could be totally unknown, 
and whether no commiseration had been called forth 



10 



pd no effort made, <o better the condition of the miser- 
able Slaves? he replied, there was a people called Mora- 
vians, to whom they were as well known as to himself, 
for they also had been eye-witnesses of these things, and 
had, with much sacrifice and personal exertion, succeeded 
in establishing a Mission in some of the Island?, to in- 
struct the Negroes in Christianity, and that there was in 
London, the Gentleman who had the conduct and over- 
sight of this business ; this individual was invited to B , 

he came, and confirmed the statements made by Mr, 
Ramsay, but sickness was upon him, and he died shortly 

afterwards. This respectable witness was Mr. L , a 

Moravian Bishop. Shortly after this transaction, one of 
the Ladies married Sir Charles M , who was in Par- 
liament, and as her mind was still intent on the tales of 
woe which she had heard and believed, she took an early 
opportunity to implore her husband to become the ad- 
vocate and defender of the poor Slaves, in the House of 
Commons. This he declined doing personally, as he was 
not particularly well qualified as a public speaker, and 
was well aware of the opposition such a measure would 
provoke from a widely extended portion of society, in- 
terested in silencing. the invesiigation, and that few 
would choose to risk their political reputation by bring- 
ing forward so unpopular an object, yet, to ensure it any 
reasonable prospect of success, he said it ought to be com- 
mitted to a person of talent, entering into public life, and 
still free to exert his powers on any subject which he might 
prefer. She urged him to seek for such a person, and he 
was led to cast his eyes upon Mr. W— — , (the revered 



11 



champion of the Slaves). He was then a young man, but 
had given indications of his good sense, eloquence, and 
public spirit, and to him the business was proposed. He 
listened, he sought information, he weighed evidence, he 
made acquaintance with Clarksoiij and oLher friends of 
humanity, and finally devoted himself to the righteous 
cause ; and how powerfully, perseveringly, faithfully' 
and (to a certain extent) successfullj', he has advocated 
the cause thus committed to him, every one knows. 

Another able, but more recent pleader in the House . 
of Commons, for the Abolition of Slavery, we are con- 
fidentiy assured, was led to this dedication of his power, 
by the dying plea and entreaty of a female relative of 
remarkable piety and rare mental endowments, who 
implored him, with her expiring breath, " to remember 
the poor Slaves." 

Let noDfC then despise weak instruments, or the day of 
small things ; — and now, with regard to its being unbe' 
coming to join in these Associations, it can only be so 
when they are conducted in an unbecoming manner: but 
whilst pity for suffering, and a desire to relieve misery, 
are the natural and allowed feelings of women, surely 
to commiserate the Slave in his bonds, and to endeavour 
to loosen them, cannot be deemed unbecoming; nor is 
it unfeminine to feel yet more acutely for the deep degra- 
dation of our own sex under this dreadful system, for the 
exposure of their persons under the lacerating whip, and 
the exposure of their untaught minds to the more awful 
contamination of licentiousness in its most debasing form, 
which even leads its captives to glory in their shame. 



12 



Surely these things may well stir up our spirits within 
us, when \ye behold so large a number of our own sex 
helpless victims alternately to cruelty and lust, — as wo- 
men, we must feel, and feeling, we must endeavour to 
succour, but we desire ever to do so in the manner which 
appears to us most suitable to our respective conditions; 
and we would ask the candid and unprejudiced, whether 
there is anything unbecoming in the heads of families (in 
their domestic consumption) encouraging and setting the 
example of giving the preference to the produce of free 
labour over that which is the fruit of the unrequited toil 
of the Slave ? Is there anything unfeminine in the form- 
ation of an Anti-Slavery Library, into which no books 
are placed that have not undergone the examination and 
received the approval of the Committee, who then allow 
them free circulation under the inspection ^ -the Li- 
brarian, amongst all those who are desirous to read them; 
or in expending a part of our funds in printing, and in 
circulating in our neighbourhood, Tracts, which have 
received the same examination and approval, and which 
we think calculated to excite enquiry, and impart in- 
formation on the subject of Slavery, of whose worst 
features so many persons in this country remain, as we 
believe, to this day, in actual ignorance ? Is there anything 
unbecoming in meeting, at stated times, in each others 
houses, to read the Anti-Slavery Reporter, or other publi- 
cations calculated to acquaint us more fully with the gene- 
general state of feeling on this important object, and the 
measures adopted by the Friends of the Negroes, to better 
their condition, and then uniting in prayer, for ourselves 



13 



and others, entreating that Master and Slave, those at 
home, and those abroad, may be guided by Divine wis- 
dom to see and to do that wliich is pleasing to the God 
of all Mercy, and to supplicate that he will, in his 
own time, hear the sorrowful sighing of those who have 
no other helper, and incline the hearts of those persons 
in whose hands he has lodged the power, to deal justly, 
to love mercy, and to walk humbly in obedience to 
his will? Is it unfeminine for the Christian mother to 
engage to train up her children in love to the great 
family of mankind, teaching them that *^ God has made 
of one blood all the nations of the earth," and com- 
manded all to love their brethren; that he has appointed 
but one Redeemer, in whom there is no distinction of 
'' bond or free ;'' has sent one Gospel to cheer,* and one 
Spirit to sanctify every fallen creature of the race of 
Adam; and that, when he has made no distinction, we 
cannot safely make one : is not this rather to inculcate 
" peace upon earth, and goodwill towards men V and 
besides these now enumerated, there is but one other ob- 
ject to which we engage ourselves, and that is, to use the 
influence which family ties, or the intercourse of social 
life may afford us, in inducing our male friends perse- 
veringly to petition the Parliament not to lose sight of 
the obligation to remove this dark stain from the code 

* The same Divine command which sent forth St. 
Paul as the Jpostle of the Gentiles, sent also Philip, 
by special direction, to preach the same Gospel to the 
Ethiopian. 



]4 



oi free and Ciiristian Britain, tliat tlie voice of the people 
may be heard, and that the attention of Statesmen may 
be fully given to this important concern. We are aware 
how much more easy it is to do wrong than to retrace 
our steps when we wish to return to a better way ; the 
removal of a long-established evil does always, in its 
complicated bearings, involve considerable perplexity in 
order to deal justly by all in any way partakers in it. 
We therefore do not clamour for immediate emancipa- 
tion, but we do most earnestly desire that the objects of 
our solicitude may never be lost sight of by the Legis- 
lature, until they are reinstated into what we conceive 
a free and Christian Country must deem the inalienable 
rights of men. 

We hear, with gladness, that new Sister Assocfations 
are forming in various parts of Great Britain, and sin- 
cerely hope they will encrease yet more and more, and 
all be attended with a blessing. 

If this Report appear more apologetic than those 
which have preceded it, it is because we feel, from pe- 
culiar circumstances, called upon to vindicate our pro- 
ceedings, since we ought not wilfully to allow our good 
to be evil spoken of, by forbearing to state facts as they 
are. In the midst of misapprehension and opposition, we 
feel unshaken, because we believe that God is with us, 
and that whilst in all our proceedings we seek Him, he 
will be found of us, and by his Spirit guide and animate 
us not to grow weary in well doing, because in due 
time we shall reap the fruit of our labours, if we faint 
not. We are deeply sensible of our own weakness and 



15 



insufficiency, but His work upon eartli is often carried on 
by such instruments, tliat the excellency of the power 
may be visibly seen to be in Him, and all the success be 
attributed to Him, and we desire-to labour only so long 
as we are in his service and doing his work. We believe 
the time is come, when much of the darkness of the days 
of ignorance is passing away, and we anticipate the 
drawing nigh of the blessed period, when they shall no 
more hurt nor destroy in all the holy mountain of the 
Lord, for the knowledge of Him and of his will shall 
cover the earth, and all nations shall call Him blessed. 



A suggestion has been offered, to which we would 
give our most hearty concurrence, which is, that every 
author or authoress, who is a friend to the Abolition of 
Slavery, would consider it a duty to write something on 
the subject, and send their performances, whether in verse 
or prose, as contributions, to those elegant annual publi- 
cations which are so splendidly embellished, and which 
have such extensive circulation, especially amongst the 
young, whom it is so desirable to lead into the paths of 
truth before prejudice and interest warp or mislead the 
feelings J and the Editors of these Works are earnestly 
entreated to insert in each of the volumes they shall 
hereafter publish at least one article on the subject of 
Slavery. 



16 



LIST of BOOKS at the LIBRARY. 



Clarkson's History of the Slave-Trade, 2 vols. 
Cries of Africa, by Clarksoii. 
Negro Slavery. 

A Letter to Jean Baptist Saj^, by Adam Hodgson. 
A Review of some of the Arguments against Parliamen- 
tary Interference in behalf of Negro Slavery. 
A Sermon, by C. Townsend, M. A. 
Case of the Vigilante. 
Sketches of People of Colour. 
Journal of John Woolman. 

rEngland Enslaved by her own Colonies, by J. Stephen 

I Barrister. 

i Slave Colonies of Great Britain. 
Thoughts on the Necessity of Improving the Condition 

l^ of the Slaves iu the British Colonies, by T.Clarkson. 

Facts, illustrative of the Condition of the Negro Slaves. 

in Jamaica, by T.Cooper.— West Indies as they Are. 

f Substance of a Debate in the House of Commons, 15th 

1 May, 1823.— East India Sugar, &c. 

I Reflections on Slavery, in Reply to certain Passages in 

L a Speech delivered by Mr. Canning, by a Barrister. 
Statements, illustrative of the Slave-Trade, with some 
particulars of the Colony at Sierra Leone. 



17 

Address to the Inhabitants of Europe, &c. 

Is the System of Slavery Sanctioned, &c., by M. A, 

Schimmelpenninck. 
Information respecting the Slave-Trade. 

c Wilberforce's Appeal — East and West India Sugar. 

t Letter to Whitmore. 
Sturge's Slavery, and the Slave-Trade. 
Hodgson's Travels in America, 2 vols. 
The Law of Retribution, by Granville Sharp. 
Abstract of Evidence before the House, &c. 
Ramsay's Answer to Objections, &c. 
Report of the Committee of the Society for the Mitiga- 
tion and gradual Abolition of Slavery throughout the 
British Dominions. 
Examination of Demerara Memorial, &c. 
New Slave Laws of Jamaica and St. Kitts, 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, 1st vol. 
The System, by Charlotte Elizabeth. 
Memoirs of a West-India Planter. 
British Slavery described. 
Aberdeen Tract. 
Scripture Evidence of the Sinfulness of Injustice and 

Oppression. 
Sketches of Hayti. 

Dr. Philip's Researches in South Africa. 
Various Tracts, Papers, &c. 



LIST OF 

1828. 



Donations. Subscrip. 

£ s. d. £ s. d. 

Anonymous 10 .... 

Ash, Mrs. ., 12 

Austin, Mrs 1 1 

Bowdler, Mrs 10 .... 

Bowles, Miss, Cornwallis-House . .... 110 

Cliolmeley,Lady 110 .... 

Cholmeley, Mrs. S 10 

Cardale, Mr. and Mrs 10 ..*. 

Carter,MissS 5 

Cowan, Miss 5 

Donation by Hon. Miss Powys. . 1 ,,.. 
Ditto from Cheltenham, I'y ? i « n 

Mrs. Fowler ^ 

Draper, Mrs 5 

Draper, Miss .... 5 

Ever ad, Mrs. •• 10 

Everad, Miss 5 

Everard, Miss, Cotbam-place. 5 



19 



Donations. Subscrip. 
£ s. d. 



Fisher, Mrs. Hillside.. 

Folett, Mrs 

Ford, Miss , .... 

Fowler, Mrs. 

Fripp, Mrs. Westbury 

Frowd, Miss 

Friend... 050 

Friend, by Mrs. Powell 5 

Friend, by Mrs. Austin 

Friend, from Cheltenham, by > 

Mrs. Fowler J 

Ditto ditto ditto ..137 

Friend, by Miss Townsend 

Friend, Kingsdown Road 

Gilpin, Mrs 

Godly, Mrs 

Godwin, Mrs 

Gregory, Mrs 

Grey, Mrs. H .... 

Grimes, Mrs .... 

Hartopp, Lady 

Hall, MissM 

Hare, Mrs. J .... 

Hall, Mrs. F «... 

Hopkins, Miss .... 

Hunt, Miss .... 

Idle, Mrs , . . . 

King, Lady I. .... 



£ 


s. 


d. 





10 








5 





1 


1 





2 


2 








10 








5 





• 


... 







5 





I 


8 


6 


. 









5 








5 








5 





1 











5 








5 








12 








5 





1 


1 








10 








12 








5 








5 








10 








5 








10 






20 







5 



2 



T. J.J by Mrs. Roberts . . . 

Leifchild, Mrs 

S.M., by Mrs. Roberts...^..,. 1 

Millard, Miss 

Miller, Miss 

Millett, Miss 

Mines, Miss, and Sister, by 
Mrs. Roberts 

More, Mrs. H 

Morrison, Miss 

Mortimer, Mrs 

Olive, Mrs 

Oliver, Miss 

Pope, Mrs. Cothara............ 

Pope, Miss, ditto ...,., 

Powell, Mrs. 

Powys, Hon. Miss E 

Powys, Hon. and Rev. L. . . . «. . 

Powys, Hon. Mrs 

Price, Mrs. Kingsdown 

Price, Miss t 

Prowett, Rev. Mr., by Hon. ? 
Miss E. Powys y 

Roberts, Mrs 

Roberts, Miss M 

Rogers, Rev. R. by Mrs. Roberts 

Rogers, Mrs. by ditto 10 

Rogers, Miss, by ditto .,.,..,. 6 



Donations. 


Subscrip. 


£ s, d. 


£ s. d. 


.... 


10 


<r. . . 


10 



10 



5 



5 



1 



10 
5 

5 

1 1 
10 
5 
5 
5 



5 
5 



12 
12 



21 



Dpnations. Subscrip. 

£ s. d. £ s. d. 

Rogers, Miss H. by ditto 5 .... 

SchimmelpenniuckjMrs.... 1 1 

Self, Mrs 12 

Smith, Mrs. R 1 1 

Spragge, Mrs...^» 1 .... 

Stanhope, Miss ..,.^. 10 

Steil, Miss 6 

Stephens, Miss, Cornwallis-House .... 5 

Symes, Mrs 5 

Synaes, Miss 5 

Townsend, Miss... .,,, 10 

Trail,Mrs 5 

Waring, Mrs 5 

Waring, Miss 10 

Weston, collected at 5 .... 

Wheeler, Miss Ann 5 

Woodman, Miss 6 

Worgan, Mrs 6 

Wright, Mrs. R..... 1 .... 

Wright, Miss , .... 1 1 

Wright, Miss L.^ 1 1 

Wake, Mrs.. • 10 .... 

Yate,Mrs.G 12 

Young, Mrs , 10 

Young, Miss ...i.,, 5 o 



© O O O Oi o 



ooooqocsj coco 



^ 



.5^ 



. o 









CCfCWi-'OJfN «3CO 






1-1 .r 

SB lO *. 

•5 '=^^ £ 

° § ^ 



m 



a a- • 
03 *^ -a 

C »- rt 

■13 o 



« 



o 

s "o o 



O w t/] o 



^ >p = 



-"^i 



S o 4" "3 5R 



o o 



=irt 



^C 



s 



a d 



.:i5 

O 
- _. o 

02 c pq 



«2 a n a> 



OJ 



1?. 



-I .1 






N ^ ^ 

■to S •» 

r« •» "*» 






§•1 » I 



^ « ^ I 

^ -i -« SS, 

JC ^ -^ " 



i *>" J ^ 

I <>J "5S ^ 

^ i 1 "§ 

q §; e 



'P § 



^ i 

^ .1 
- i 









•« '^ 



^1 s 






?%. «o 



