BRITISH AMERICAN INSTITUTE, 



FOUNDED IN 



DAWN, CANADA WEST. 



> 



ess, 



To the Friends of the Slave, 

Having for many years devoted myself to elevating the character, and improving the condition of the coloured 
population of Canada, I beg most respectfully to invite the sympathetic regard of the Christian public in Great Britain to 
the following interesting and important facts. 

It is well known to the friends of negro emancipation, that for several years large numbers of the slaves in the 
Southern States of America have made their escape into Upper Canada ; their number at the present time not bein°- 
less than 12,000, making the coloured population in that country about 16,000— the increase being at the rate of 1,000 
per annum — one-third being females. 

With the view of meeting the mental and moral necessities of those refugees, the British American Institute has 
been founded at Dawn, in the county of Kent, Canada West. At this Institution a suitable selection is made of the 
most promising characters among the negroes, to be trained up in habits of industry, and to receive a secular and 
religious education suited to their capacities and future prospects, so as to qualify them to become teachers and benefac- 
tors to their deeply injured and suffering brethren. The value of these labours will appear still more important, when it 
is recollected that it is only by improving the intellectual and moral condition of the coloured race, that prejudice against 
colour can be overcome, on account of which they are now suffering in their newly adopted country. 

For this purpose, at the close of 1841, 200 acres of land were purchased with funds raised in England by James C. 
Fuller, Esq. Part of the land has been cleared, and three log dwelling houses and a school-room have been erected. 
Sixteen adults and about twenty youths have been received for employment and instruction ; and their improvement 
has been highly satisfactory. Several hours in the day are employed upon the farm, for the purpose of raising food 
for their own support. A steward is engaged to superintend the manual labour, and two teachers are employed in 
giving a sound English education. 

The moral and religious instruction imparted have been attended with the Divine blessing. Family worship is 
conducted in the establishment, morning and evening, and the gospel is preached to them on the sabbath. The results 
of these labours have been most gratifying, and as many of the inmates have given decided testimony of their personal 
piety, a church has been formed of the coloured people in connexion with some of the white population. 

It now only remains to be stated that the sum of £1,000 is immediately required to enable the Trustees to enlarge 
the Institution — to furnish implements of husbandry — books, stationery, &c, in order to accommodate a laro-e number 
of importunate applicants, to whom at present they are compelled to refuse admission. 

In conclusion, it gives me much pleasure to state that this humane and Christian enterprise has the sanction and 
promised aid of Sir Charles Metcalfe, Governor-General of British North America ; and also to be able to subjoin 
the following testimonials from some of the most distinguished ministers and philanthropists of England and 
America. 



Relying upon the Divine blessing to vouchsafe the generous assistance of a benevolent and religious public, 



London, Sept. 30th, 1843. 

6, Queen-street-place, Cheapside. 



I remain, 

On behalf of the Trustees, 

Your devoted servant, 

HIRAM WILSON, 



President. 



wm 



2 



TESTIMONIALS, 



From Justices of the Peace. 

" Township of Dawn, Western District, 
Canada West, 16th April, 1843. 

" Sir, — In reply to your letter of this date, requesting our testimony of 
the existence, necessity, and importance of the Institution at whose head 
you are placed, we do hereby record our testimony that this Institution is 
established on the river Sydenham, in this district ; that it has been for 
some time in progress ; and, in our opinion, is likely to progress, and to be 
of the first importance toward carrying out the desirable object you have 
in view. 

" We remain, 

" Sir, your most obedient humble servants, 

« W. FLETCHER, j.p.w.d. 
WILLIAM TAYLOR, j.p.w.d. 

" To the Rev. Hiram Wilson, President of the British 
American Institute for the Coloured People of Canada." 



From the Committee and Trustees of the Institute. 

" We, the undersigned, as the Committee of the British American Insti- 
tute, in the Township of Dawn, Canada West, do hereby authorize the 
Rev. Hiram Wilson, President of the above Institution, to present its 
claims to the Christian public, and receive such aid as generous communi- 
ties and philanthropists may please to furnish. 

" PETER SMITH, 
GEORGE JOHNSON, 
ELIAS E. KIRKLAND. 
JAMES STUMP. 

" Dawn, December 5, 1842." 



" The undersigned, being Trustees of the Institution, above designated, 
and having entire confidence in the Rev. Hiram Wilson, (through whose 
indefatigable and disinterested exertions, much has been done for its esta- 
blishment,) most cordially unite with the Committee in commending him to 
the kindness and liberality of Christians and philanthropists. 

" JOHN ROAF, 

Pastor of the Congregational Church in Toronto. 
JAMES C. BROWN. 
JAMES CANNINGS FULLER, 

Shancateles, N.Y. 
" Toronto, December 30, 1842." 



From the New York State Anti-Slavery Society. 

" To the Friends of Human Liberty in Great Britain 

and Ireland. 

" This Committee having heard of the intended embarkation of the Rev. 
Hiram Wilson for Europe, take great pleasure in commending him, and 
the benevolent cause he represents, to the sympathies of British philan- 
thropists and Christians. 

" It is well known, that Mr. Wilson, several years since, devoted himself 
to the moral and intellectual elevation of the Refugees from American 
bondage in Canada, and that he has toiled on amidst many discouragements 
and hardships to the present time ; until recently, he has received compara- 
tively little substantial aid. Now an increased interest in the humane 
enterprise is manifest, and if the friends of crushed humanity come up 
generously to his relief, great good will doubtless be accomplished. The 



number of fugitives from oppression is fast increasing, and their case com- 
mends itself to the warmest sympathies of every friend of man. 

" Mr. Wilson has our fullest confidence and best wishes for the complete 
success of his plans. 

" ALVAN STEWART, 

President Neiv York State Anti-Slavery Society. 

A. H. HUNT, 

Recording Secretary. 

J. C. DELONG, 

Chairman of the Executive Committee New YorJc State 
Anti-Slavery Society. 
"Utica, April 24, 1843." 



From the Right Hon. Viscount Morpeth. 

" I have felt my interest in the cause to which you have devoted your- 
self so much increased, by my having subsequently been within the sphere 
of its agency, that I have thought it right to double my previous donation. 

" MORPETH. 

" June 9, 1843." 



From Thomas Clarkson, Esq. 

" I feel it to be my duty to inform those benevolent friends of the 
injured African race, into whose hands this paper may be put, that the 
bearer, the Rev. Hiram Wilson, of West Canada, has been led by the 
providence of God to become for many years the protector of such fugitive 
slaves, as, having fled from their masters in the United States, liave sought 
refuge in the Canadian Territory. In this unprecedented labour of love, he 
has done, I believe, all that man could do. 

" Mr. Wilson and his friends feel themselves unable to complete 
their plans without aid. Some buildings are to be erected, and school- 
masters to be employed and paid. For these purposes, they solicit the 
assistance of such of the friends of the injured African race, as may think 
this object worthy of their support. 

"THOMAS CLARKSON. 

"Playford Hall, August 16, 1843." 



From the Rev. James M. Phillippo. 

" I most cordially approve Mr. Wilson's plans for the benefit of the 
fugitive slaves in Canada, and wish him the most abundant success in his 
applications to the British public, to enable him to carry them into fall and 
vigorous execution. 

" JAMES M. PHILLIPPO, 
Baptist Missionary. 
" London, Sept. 29th, 1843." 



From Captain Stuart. 

" Several years have elapsed since I became acquainted with Rev. Hiram 
Wilson, as a faithful and indefatigable labourer in the cause of the 
fugitives in Upper Canada, from United States slavery. I have had 
several opportunities, the last about two years ago, of seeing him in Upper 
Canada, and of earnestly exploring the character and results of his exertions, 
and can and do cordially recommend him to the confidence and aid of the 
friends of religion and humanity in Great Britain. 

"C. STUART. 

" Bath, August 29, \M$r 



m 



3 



From W. T. Blaik, Esq. 
" I be<" leave most cordially to commend Mr. Hiram Wilson, and 
the sacred cause he advocates, to the sympathy and support of every 
Christian and philanthropist in Great Britain. 

"August 2$, 1843." 

From Joseph John Gurney, Esq. 
" I have pleasure in stating that my friend, Hiram Wilson, the bearer 
of this letter, has long been the useful friend and protector of the black and 
coloured people who have found a refuge from slavery in Canada. He has 
acted under the auspices of the American Ant>Slavery Society ; and is now 
more particularly engaged as director of an Institution in Upper Canada 
West, for the education of young men of African descent, in order to fit 
them 'for schoolmasters. These are greatly wanted in various parts of Ca- 
nada where the population of the black and coloured people now amounts 
to about sixteen thousand. I consider Hiram Wilson to be a friend to 
the cause who may be fully depended on, and his objects are worthy of the 

liberal surmort of a Christian public. 

liberal suppor u JQSE?R JQHN GURNEY . 

" Earlham, near Norwich, 9 mo. 22, 1843." 



From John Candler, Esq. 
" My esteemed Friend, Hiram Wilson,— I am glad to find that thou 
hast succeeded in awakening an interest in the public mind in this country 
towards vour ' Manual Labour Institute' for the fugitive blacks in Canada. 
I heard much, whilst in America, of thy strenuous and self-denying labour, 
to promote the interests and moral welfare of this now numerous class of 
British subjects ; and was convinced of the same fact by what I heard and 

saw at Toronto. , . 

" I know of no country where the education of the young and of adults 
has been pursued with so much self-denial, and at so little pecuniary cost, 
as among the black and coloured people who hgye fled from slavery in the 
United States, and have sought protection in Canada. Most sincerely do I 
wish thee well in thy endeavours still further to promote the moral and 
civil condition of this lately oppressed portion of mankind. They deserve 
our svmpathy, and they ought to have our help. 

' " Believe me thy sincere friend, 

» JOHN CANDLER. 

" York, 11th of 9th mo., 1843." 



From the Rev. Algernon Wells, Secretary to the Congrega- 
tional Union of England and Wales. 
« I have received from my friend, the Rev. J. Roaf, of Toronto, most 
satisfactory testimonials in favour of the bearer, the Rev. Hiram Wilson ; 
and in respect of the object of his present mission to England, I feel, as all 
friends of humanity and religion must, the deepest interest in it, and the 
warmest approbation of it; I therefore give Mr. Wilson my cordial re- 
commendation. u ALGERN0N WELL s. 
" Congregational Library, July 3rd, 1843." 



From the Rev. J. H. Hinton, A.M. 

" Acquainted at once with the importance of the object, and the devoted 
zeal of Mr. Wilson, I add, with great pleasure, my recommendation. 

" J. H. HINTON. 

" Finsbury, Aug. \%th, 1843." 



From the Rev. T. Binney. 

" I have entire confidence in Mr. Wilson. His credentials are unques- 
tionable and satisfactory : the object he is anxious to promote is one of 
great interest and importance. I have much pleasure in uniting with my 
brethren in the above recommendations of Mr. W. and his cause to the 
Christian public. 

" T. BINNEY. 

" Camberwell, Aug. 14ft, 1843." 



From the Rev. Dr. Alder. 

" From my knowledge of the social state of Canada, I believe that 
Institution the interests of which Mr. Wilson is endeavouring to promote, 
in the western district of that province, for the benefit of the Africans who 
have fled thither from the United States, will, under the Divine blessing, 
if properly managed, be productive of great advantages to them, as well as 
confer much good upon the country in which they have found an asylum. 

" R. ALDER. 

u London, Sept. 27th, 1843." 



From the Rev. Daniel Walton. 

" Having had an opportunity of conversing largely with the Rev. Hiram 
Wilson, in reference to the benevolent object which has brought him to 
England, I have been convinced that his design is a truly noble and phi- 
lanthropic one ; I therefore cordially join in recommending him, and the 
cause he pleads, to the notice of the benevolent and pious. 

" DANIEL WALTON. 

"Bath, Sept. 6th, 1843." 



From the Rev. Samuel D. Waddy. 

" The Rev. Hiram Wilson has favoured me with an opportunity of 
examining his Testimonials, which are highly respectable and satisfactory ; 
and the cause in which he is specifically engaged is of the utmost import- 
ance to the ultimate extinction of slavery in the United States. 

" SAMUEL D. WADDY. 

" Bath, Aug. 31s*, 1843." 



The following Ministers and Gentlemen have also expressed their cordial approbation of the object of this Appeal- 

The Rev. Drs. Raffles, Reed, Ware-law, and Matheson ; Rev. Messrs. W. Jay, T. James, J. Carlile, 

"W Bevan J. Sherman, Joshua Russell, John Jefferson, Secretary to the London Peace Society; James 

GBiRNEY,'Es'q., Gerrit Smith, Esq., of Peterborough, New York ; and Messrs. Geo. A. Avery, L. M. Moore, 

nd O N.'bush, Committee of the Canada Mission Board, Rochester, New York. 

James Cannings Fuller, Esq., one of the Trustees of the Institute, is duly entitled to solicit funds on its 
behalf. 

Donations will be gratefully received by John Cropper, jun., Esq., Dingle Bank, Liverpool ; W. T. Blair, Esq., 
Bathwick-hill, Bath ; and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 27, New Broad-street, London. 



