res. 7$*& -5* "••'* 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/mobunderpretenceOOstor 



MOB, UNDER PRETENCE OF LAW, 



OB, THE 



ARREST AND TRIAL OF REV. GEORGE STORRS 



at Nort Jbfield, Ht. BL ; 



WITH THE CIRCUMSTANCES CONNECTED WITH THAT AJTAIB \ 

AND REMARKS THEREON. 



CONCORD : 

ELBRIDGE G. CnASE... .PRINTER. 
1835. 



res. 75" 1^ .5* »\ 



The case reported in the following pages, is believed to be 
without precedent in the law annals of New-Hampshire. That a 
minister of the gospel, of respectable character and standing in 
the community, having been invited to deliver an address before 
a philanthropic society, and being in the sacred. desk, engaged 
in the solemn exercise of prayer, should be arrested in the name 
of the law as " an idler, a vagrant, a brawler," &c. &c, is 
orobably without a parallel in the records of the Granite State. 
It reminds one of the scenes in by-gone days in Massachusetts, — 
about the middle and near the close of the seventeenth century, 
ere the fires of persecution had quite gone out, or at least while 
the spirit that enkindled them was yet in existence and in power. 
It is a, melancholy proof that unhallowed opposition to moral 
good, to constitutional rights, may exist amidut the light of the 
nineteenth century, and in this boasted land of freedom. Yes, 
the rights so dearly purchased and so nobly maintained by our 
fathers, are now wrested from their sons by the hand of violence 
under the pretended sanction of lav/! 

Has it come to this ? That even while so many veterans of 
the revolution yet remain among us, — even while the last sun of 
these venerable men yet lingers above the.horizon, the rich inher- 
itance they have bequeathed to their country and their descend- 
ants, is trampled upon as a thing of little value? Must their 
gray hairs thus be brought down with sorrow to the grave ? 

But we are not yet a hopeless people. Abuses are often the 
occasion of their own remedy . Integrity and honor, and respect 
to the rights of man, are not wholly swept away in these days 
of anarchy. There is yet a redeeming power amongst us. 
There are Lots and Abrahams within our borders. There are 
ten righteous men in the city. Our trust is in the God of our 
lathers, — Him who gave them wisdom to plan, and energy to 
establish our excellent institutions. And our prayers to Him is, 
that there may yet be virtue enough in the people to sustain 
those institutions, and. transmit them unimpaired to the latest 
posterity. 



The letter of invitation to Rev. Mr. Storrs to deliver an Address at 

Northfield, from the original. 
Very dear Br. Storrs, 

It is desired by your Anti-Slavery friends in this vicinity that 
you should give us an Anti-Slavery Sermon in Northfield Meeting 
House, as soon as will be convenient for you. We would prefer 
to have the Discourse in the day time that we may be less liable 
to disturbance frbm those who " choose darkness rather than 
light." 

I hope you will find it consistent to favor us with an address , 
Make you.r own selection as to time. Please write soon, and let 
us know whether you can come, and if so, when. 
/ery respectfully, yours, 

JAMES TEMPLETON, 

In behalf of the Anti-Slavery 
Society in Sandbornton and 
Rev. George Storrs. Northfield. 

Sandbornton, Nov. 27th, 1835. 



Answer of Mr. Storrs, 

Concord, Dec. 7th, 1835 ■ 
Dear Br. Templeton: 

I have been from home three weeks past, and, of course, have 
but just received your letter. — If nothing in Providence prevent, 
I will give the Anti-Slavery Society at your place an address next 
Monday, viz. the 14th, at one o'clock. P. M. You can give 
notice accordingly. I think probable, I may spend the next 
Lord's day with you. The cause advances — the captives must 
go free. God is on o»r side. "The captive exile hastcneth that 
he may be loosed, and that he should not die in the pit." "God 
pleadsth the cause of his people : Behold I have taken out of their 
hair' 1 , the cup of trembling—thou shalt drink it no more." See 
the whole of Isaiah LI. especially from the seventh verse. 
Yours truly, in that Gospel which 

proclaims liberty to the captive. 

GEO. STORRS. 



Extract from Mr. Storrs' Journal. 

Dec. 12. Came to Sandbornton Bridge at the request of North- 
field and Sandbornton Bridge Anti-Slavery Society. Received 
a cordial welcome from friends of the cause. Was entertained 
by Dearborn Sanborn. Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, a 
whole-hearted abolitionist. 

Sunday, Dec. 13. Preached all day in the Methodist Meeting 
House, to a large congregation : endeavored to establish the duty 
of entire devotion to Christ and his cause, measuring that duty 
by God's word, and not by a corrupt public sentiment. I trust the 
word spoken was not in vain. 

Dec. 14th. Had an appointment given out yesterday to preach 
this afternoon before the Anti-Slavery Society of this place. — 
There were some indications last evening that the mobocratic 
spirit'was at work. This forenoon a few harmless guns were 
fired, upon the top of the hill that overlooks the village, by some 
boys, probably sent there by some larger sized boys — the report 
was not so loud as to indicate that very great execution was likely 
to follow. 

About eleven o'clock, A. M. Nathan Wells and Joseph Smith, 
two of the Selectmen of Northfield, called upon me to know if 
my lecture could not be given up, as there was considerable ex- 
citement about the place. Mr. Wells thought that there would 
be trouble, and if so, J should be responsible for it. I told him 
I thought it very strange that I should be held responsible for the 
doings of a mob, while I was only in the exercise of a constitu- 
tional right : 1 remarked that if I did or said anything unconsti- 
tutional, the law was open, let me suffer for it. Mr Wells said 
he did not come to discuss the subject — but some of the people, 
viz. Samuel Tilton, Esq. and Judge Daniel C. Atkinson, advised 
them to come and see if the lecture could not be given up, for 
there would be trouble. I replied that I came here at the request 
of the Anti-Slavery Society, and for the time, I was their ser- 
vant, if they chose not to have the lecture, I should acquiesce. 
1* 



I Team by a friend, who came in since the Selectmen left, that 
there are threats, by a man bound to keep the peace, that if I 
attempt to lecture this afternoon, I shall be sent to prison. Beit 
so, then ! Our government have sanctioned by law sending a 
colored man, on suspicion of being a runaway .slave, to the Uni- 
ted States' prison, it he happen to be found in the Capital of this 
Republic without the evidence of his freedom ! and to be sold a 
slave for life to pay his jail fees if he cannot prove his freedom ! — 
and if he can prove his freedom, in that part of the District for- 
merly belonging to Maryland, and refuses to pay his jail fees, he 
is still sold a slave for life to pay the fees of an unrighteous im- 
prisonment ! ! No wonder that feed officers under such a gov- 
ernment should threaten to send a white citizen to prison for as- 
serting and exercising the right of free discussion. 

Dec. 18th. Previous to attending the meeting at Northfield on 
Monday last, a friend sent me word that a warrant was being 
made out to apprehend me. It was intimated that Judge Atkin- 
son was preparing said warrant and papers. Samuel Tilton, 
Esq. I learned was to serve the warrant. I left Mr. Sanborn's 
in Sandbornton about one o'clock, in company with Rev. J. Tem- 
ple'on and Joseph Clough, Jr. — proceeded to the Methodist Meet- 
ing House in Northfield — where having arrived I seated myself 
near the pulpit while the people were collecting. Esq. Tilton 
came in some time previous to my going into the pulpit. He 
had a large cane in his hand, I should judge about three feet and 
an half long, Egid an inch or an inch, and a half in diameter. — 
After looking round the house, he seated himself in about the 
third or fourth pew from the pulpit, in front. Not long after this, 
Mr. Templeton and myself went into the pulpit — we sat a short 
time, and then I commenced Uu exercises by reading from the 
"Testimony of God against slavery," select portions of scripture . 
I then read a hymn, after which I knelt to pray — had proceeded 
some time in prayer — among other things, had prayed for the 
President of these United* States and for both houses of Con- 
gress in their present session, for various classes of men : — at 
length I came to the slaves, for whom both " saints" and sinners 
have said " don't pray about them in public ;" but I have not so 
learned Christ — therefore, I ventured to speak to God of thek 



condition — degraded, bought and sold like beasts in the mar- 
ket — shut out from mrit'al improvement — denied the Bible, 
and cut off from those religious privileges that we enjoy — that 
God would have mercy upon them — save them from avenging 
themselves — help them to be patient and quiet : — I was just 
about to pray for their masters, but it would almost seem as 
though heaven differed it to be prevented, and hell was greedy 
of its prey, for near that point I heard a heavy rap upon the 
floor, made I supposed by the above described cane — and a 
voice gave loud utterance to something — I heard nothing that I 
recollect, except " Mr. Storrs." I still continued my prayer. I 
next heard a rushing from a pew in front of me towards the pul- 
pit stairs, and some one rapidly ascend them — next I felt some 
one lay his hand strong upon my shoulder, and' cry out, " You 
are a prisoner." J. still kept on praying — my mind never more 
calm and stayed on God, for which I praise him. As I did not 
stop praying, the man next seized me by the collar, shook me, 
and uttered some expressions which I do not recollect. I now 
stopped praying audibly — my eyes still shut for a short time — I 
then opened them and beheld Samuel Tilton, Esq. a deputy she- 
riff, standing beside me with a paper in his hand, and heard him 
say, " I have a warrant to arrest this man as a vagrant and an 
idler," adding, " I now command assistance." I replied, (still 
upon my knees) yon need call no assistance — I shall offer no re- 
sistance — -i ilow me to put on my outside garment and I am rea-ly 
to go with you. Esq. Tilton went down into the aisle of the 
house — at this moment, Samuel Forest, Esq. of Northfield, at- 
tempted to read the law relating to the disturbance of religious 
meetings. Mr. Sheriff Tilton cried out, "I care nothing about 
your law" — and added some other words, I do not remember 
what. In looking about for my surtout, I found that Mr. Sheriff, 
probably in his haste to get into the pulpit, for fear I should es- 
cape, had landed it safely in the bottom of the aisle, in the dirt. 
However, I soon recovered it, and having put it on, followed the 
sheriff, remembering " those in bonds as bound with them." As 
we passed out at the door the mob party followed — at a little dis- 
tance from the house some of them hissed behind me, showing 
who their father was — a few harmless snow balls were discharged 



8 

at my back, and some mirth followed. The sheriff ordered them 
■to behave civil, and have all things done orderly. 

Mr. Tilton said to me, as we passed along, " Mr. Storrs, this 
is very unpleasant, but there was no other way to prevent a mob 
— I have been trying ever since last Saturday to prevent a mob, 
and there was no other way to do it." It brought to mind an anec- 
dote I read when a boy, of an Irishman who came to this country 
/and landed in some of our cities — travelling upon the pavement, 
the dogs came out and barked at him — after several unsuccessful 
attempts to get up a stone to throw at them, he cried out, " A 
plague on such a country as this where the dogs are let loose and 
the stones tied down." The Mobiles are left loose, but the men 
upon whom they would wreak their vengeance must be bound I 
And pray what is our crime ? 0, it is a horrible one ! We believe 
and teach, that the Negro is a MAN ! i ! That he has " certain 
inalienable rights," among which our fathers "fanatically" in- 
cluded "LIBERTY." But as the discovery has lately been 
made by pro-slavery men that that was only a " rhetorical flour- 
ish of Mr. Jefferson's pen," it will not do for us to repeat it, for 
fear the people will have a mob ! ! However, as Mr. Sheriff 
Tilton was so exceedingly kind as to try so hard for two days to 
prevent a mob, with so little success, I would respectfully suggest 
to the High Sheriff, whether it might not be well for him to re- 
lieve his Deputy and appoint a man in his room who has more 
influence. I would also, with much respect, suggest to the High 
Sheriff, whether, if it is probable that many abolitionists are to 
be arrested, as they are temperance men, he cannot accommodate 
us with some Deputies whose breath is not so exceedingly offen- 
sive with hum — especially if they are to be sent into the holy 
sanctuary to take us from our knees, while in the pulpit enga- 
ged in prayer. If he can we shall feel under great obligations to 
him. 

But to return from this digression. I was taken before Nathan 
Wells, Justice of the Peace, one of the Selectmen, who visited 
me in the morning. The Court was opened. Judge Atkinson 
appeared as counsel for Rogers, the complainant. The complaint \ 
was read. I was interrogated, Guilty, or Not Guilty ? I replied. 
Not Guilty. I was then asked if I was ready for trial. I request- 



9 

ed the trial to be postponed until next Thursday. My request 
was granted. I gave bonds for my appearance in the sum of 
twenty dollars, and the Court adjourned to meet at ten o'clock on 
Thursday. 

On Tuesday, one of the mobocrats was found dead in a horse 
barn, having drank, it is said, too freely of brandy. He was buried 
while the Court was in session on Thursday. 

I felt happy that the complaint against me did not contain two 
charges, viz. that of being a drunkard nor slaveholder. 

Previous to going into Court on Thursday, Judge Atkinson, 
counsel for Rogers, took me aside and said, that this complaint 
was not brought against me out of any bad feelings towards me, 
and now if I would come before the Court and say, that I did not 
think my coming to Northfield would produce excitement, he 
thought the matter might be stopped without proceeding any fur- 
ther, and that he would use his influence with the Justice for that 
purpose. I replied, as they had set out in the law, I wished it to 
be finished in. or by the law, and added, I am ready for trial. 
x We will now present our readers with the Complaint itseif, and 
the doings of the Court on Thursday,. I had no counsel on the 
occasion, The minutes of the testimony at the trial were taken 
by Rev. Samuel Hoyt of Concord. 

To Nathan Wells, Esquire, one of the Justices of the Peace in 
and for the County of Merrimack and State of New-Hamp- 
shire — \ Complains — 
In the name and behalf of said State, Benjamin Sogers of 
Northfield, in said County of Merrimack, husbandman, that 
George Storrs, now commorant in said Northfield. a transient 
person, complains and gives said Justice to understand and be 
informed that said George Storrs, at said Northfield, on the 12th 
day of December, 1835, and ever since has been an idle person 
and disorderly person, and wanton and lascivious in speech and 
behaviour, a common railer and brawler, and neglects any law- 
ful employment, and mispends his time going about in said town 
* and County disturbing the public peace, contrary to the form 



* I was not in the town of -Northfield at all, except as I passed 
through,. Saturday, the 12th, in my way to Sandbornton Bridge. 



10 

of the statute in such case made nnd provided, and against the 
peace and dignity of said State, — wherefore the said Benjamin 
.Rogers prays that the said George Storrs may be apprehended 
and dealt with in the premises as law and justice shall require. 

BENJAMIN ROGERS. 

Merrimack, ss. December 14, 1835. 
Then Benjamin Rogers personally appeared and made oath 
that the above complaint by him subscribed, is in his belief just 
and true. Before me — 

NATHAN WELLS,* Justice of Peace. 

Note. On this complaint a warrant was issued in the common 
form', signed by Mr. Justice Wells. 



I put up in Sandbornton at Mr. Dearborn Sanborn's, where I 
spent both Saturday and Sunday night. I went into no other 
bouse in Sandbornton except Rev. Mr. Templeton's,— and I was 
in no house in Northfield. except Dr. Ladd's, where I went Sab- 
bath noon to take some refreshment, and called a few minutes, 
on Saturday, in the south part of the town to warm me. I was 
not even so far from the house, where I put up, in Sandbornton, 
as to go into the street, on Monday, till I set out to go to the 
meeting in the afternoon. It will be seen then, that previous to 
this complai?it being made out and sworn to, I had not been in 
Northfield at all except on the Sabbath to preach. My discourse 
throughout the day was on " The duty of living to Christy 

G. S. 

* Nathan Wells is one of the Selectmen' of Northfield who 
visited me at Mr. Sanborn's. I was informed by a citizen ol 
Northfield that he asked Mr. Wells if he was going to the lecture 
on Monday — Mr. Wells replied, "Yes, if they will find rotten 
ssss to throw at him.' - 



TRIAL. 

Northfield, Dec. 17, 1835. — Court met according to adjournment . 
Complaint read by Hon. Daniel C. Atkinson, Judge of Probate 
for Strafford County, who read the Statute and remarked as 
follows : 

" So far as I understand it, the people think Mr. Storrs is an 
idler. I think he is an idler, a:id has taken up that which is not 
lawful. He is a beggar," &c. 

Rev. James Templeton — affirmed. 

Question by Judge Atkinson. — Where was the last Conference ; 
held? Answer. At Portsmouth. Q. Did you attend ? A. Did 
not. Q. Did Mr. Storrs tell you that he was at the Conference ? 
A. I do not know that we have had any conversation about it. 
I was informed that he was left without an appointment, by the 
Conference, to act as an Agent for the American Anti-Slavery 
Society. Q. Is there any such Society incorporated as the Amer- 
ican Anti-Slavery Society? A. I do not know whether it is 
incorporated or not. Q. Did the Conference appoint him as an 
Agent? A. The Conference does not appoint preachers : the 
Superintendant does it. Q. Did the Superintehdant approve of 
Mr. Storrs being appointed as an Agent? A. He did not. Q. 
Don't you know the Bishops have disapproved of the Abolition 
Society? A.. Two of them advised the Trustees not to open 
their meeting-houses for lectures on Slavery. Q. How maDy 
Bishops have you ? A. Five. Q. Have you seen any disap- 
proval by' the other Bishops? A. I have not. Q. Did Mr. Storrs 
have an appointment this year ? A. He had. Q. Where was 
it? A. On Henniker Circuit. Q. Where d-oes Mr. Storrs live ? 
A. In Concord. Q. Is Concord in Henniker Circuit? A. I 
* '"k not. Q. Has Mr. Storrs or not, spent his time on Henniker 
Circuit ? A. He has not. Q. Does Henniker Circuit include 
Northfield or Sandbornton ? A. It does not. Q. Did Mr. Storrs 
tell you that he had been to Dover or Portsmouth ? A. I do not 
know that he did, but I have heard that he was there. Q. What ,* 



12 

did. he tell you about his reception there? — did you hear that, 
there was any disturbance ? A. I think I have heard there was 
some. Q. What other places has Mr. Storrs lectured at? A. 
Plymouth, Newbury and Bristol. Q. What did he say about 
Newbury ? — that they made any disturbance ? A. I heard there 
was some through the influence of ardent spirits. Q. What did 
he say of Bristol ? A. Nothing in particular. Q. Then you 
understood that disturbance has been made every where he has 
been? A. No, — I understood no such thing. Q. Was you here 
when this Anti-Slavery Society was formed? A. I was not. 
Q. What has Mr. Storrs told you his business was ? A. I have 
understood that he was an Agent for the American Anti-Slavery 
Society. Q. Is there any such legal Society ? A.I am not 
much of a legalist ; — there is such a Society. Q. It is a Society 
of individuals then, is it, without any lawful authority? A. I do 
not know about their authority to form such a Society." Q. Did 
you know Mr. Storrs was requested not to speak upon that sub- 
ject -'iere ? - A. I did. Q. What is the name of the Society in 
•ajjfe place? A. Northfield and Sandbornton Bridge Anti-Slavery 
HPfciety. Judge Atkinson said — "Not Tandbornton, we disclaim 
W\ that." Not all of us, replied Mr. Templeton, I live there. 
Q. When did you give notice of Mr. Storrs' lecture? A. Sab- 
bath day. Q. Was Mr. Storrs present? A. He was, and preach- 
ed both in the forenoon and afternoon. Q. Who was it request- 
ed Mr. Storrs not to deliver the Arfti- Slavery lecture ? A. Two 
gentlemen came in to whom I was introduced, whom I learned 
to be Selectmen. Q. They told him not to deliver the address, 
did they ? A. They did. Q. What did he say ? A. That he 
was the.servant of the ' Socipty by whom he was invited. Q. 
Did he lay it before the Society by which he was invited? A. 
The Officers were consulted. Q. Who were the Officers ? [M/- 
Templeton named them.] Q. He went on with the address, did 
he? A. He commenced the exercises by reading select portions 
' of scripture, read a hym. , and then commenced praying. Q. 
Did he read a chapter in connection or did he pick out passages 
that related to slavery ? A. I was of the opinion that the pas- 
sages he read had a bearing on slavery. Q. Has he carried 
about papers and books with niggers on them for children and 



13 

women ? A. He has not : he has carried about papers and books, 
but not particularly for children and women. Q. Did he leave 
books and papers with you ? A. He did. Q. What did he tell 
ou to do with them? A. He gave no particular directions. Q. 
To whom have you given-papers on this subject ? Some persons 
were named by Mr. T-empleton. Q. Has Mr. Storrs told you 
that his business was to circulate papers ? A. He has not. Q. 
Has Mr. Storrs been on Henniker Circuit to preach? A. It is 
my impression he has not. I have seen a writing from the Pre- 
siding Elder of that District, authorizing him to act agreeably to 
the vote of the Conference on his case. Q. Was Mr. Storrs left 
superannuated? A. He was left supernumerary. Q. Mr. Storrs 
has been round delivering Anti-Slavery lectures, has he, and 
left his Circuit ? A.I think he has. I saw the Presiding Elder 
and he told me he had given him permission to leave the Circuit ; 
and brother Storrs showed me a writing to this amount. Q. 
Has any Presiding Elder called on Mr. Storrs to deliver an 
address here? A. None. 

Cross-examined. Question by Mr. Storrs. Did the Selectmen 
of Northfield, when they called on me, say that they came by 
the advice of Judge Atkinson and Esq. Tilton? A. They said 
they were advised by them to come, and request you not to 
proceed. 

Samuel Forrest, Esq. — sworn. Questioned by Judge Atkinson. 
Q. Mr. Forrest, are you President of this Society? A- lam. 
Q. When was this Society formed? A. In March. Q. By 
whom was this Society formed — had Mr. Storrs any hand in it ? 
A. He was there and delivered an address. Q. Who wrote the 
Constitution? A. I do not know. Q. Was it in Mr. Storrs' 
handwriting? A. I am unacquainted with his hand writing. 
Q. What is the Society called? A. Northfield and Sandbornton 
Anti-Slavery Society. Q. How many belong to the Society? 
A. Over one hundred. Q. Men or women ? A. About an equal 
number. Q. How many legal voters ? A. I cannot tell. * 
Q. Was not three quarters women and children ? A.I think 

* It was ascertained at the close of the trial that there were 
fifty legal voters members of the Society. 

1* 



14 

not— 4 never looked particularly. I know there was a respecta- 
ble number of respectable men. Q. Has Mr. Storrs handed any 
of these little pamphlets and papers with nigger pictures on them 
to you? A. He gave me some Anti-Slavery publications. Q. 
Did he request yeu to give them to women and children ? A. ' He 
made no particular request. . Q. Did not Mr. Storrs know that 
people here were generally opposed to abolitionists ? A.I heard 
him say nothing about it. The first I saw of him was Sabbath 
day in the pulpit. I did not see him again till at the meeting on 
Monday. Mr. Storrs commenced the meeting, on that day, by 
reading portions 01 scripture and a hymn — after which he knelt 
to pray : after praying a%hile, I was disturbed by a noise that 
sounded like a cane brought down on the floor with considerable, 
force, and some one called out, as I understood, "come on boys," 
* and a rush was made — I rGse from my knees and beheld 
Esq. Tilton standing in the pulpit with his hand on Mr. Storrs 
shoulder, who was still kneeling with his eyes shut. Q. Is Mr. 
Stores employed as a preacher on this Circuit? A. I do not 
know as he is. Q. Do you know of Mr. Storrs being employed 
as a preacher for the last six months ? A.I heard him preach 
last Sabbath. 

Dearborn Sanborn — sworn. Q. When did Mr. Storrs eome to 
your house ? A. Saturday evening. Q. Did he come to deliver an 
Anti-Slavery Address? A. He came to preach a sermon on 
slavery. Monday morning Mr. Wells and Mr. Smith came to 
my house — I introduced them to Mr. Storrs : — they wished he 
might postpone his lecture. He told them he was the servant c J 
the Society and should do as they wished him to. The Officers 
were consulted and thought best to proceed. Q. These 
pamphlets, — have you any of them ? A. I have some. Q. 



* Sheriff Tilton manifested some uneasiness at this testimory, 
and it was finally admitted that Witness was mistaken as to She- 
riff's saying H Come on, boys " in the pulpit, as he had supposed 
it was. But Esq. Forrest has no doubt, that Sheriff Tilton did 
say, "Come on boys," though it appears, by others, who say 
they are ready to testify to the same, that it was at the time She- 
riff Tilton started from his pew, for the pulpit ; there, he did say, 
f* Come on boys." 



15 

What did he tell you to do with them? A. I do not know that 
he gave me any direction. Q. Were the books for children or 
whom ? A. For any one who has a mind to read them. Q. 
Have you read them ? A. I have. Q. Have they pictures on 
them? A. Some of them have. Q. Have you heard Mr. Storrs 
speak of the disturbance these papers have made at the South ? 
A. I have not. Q. Have you read the Paesident's message and 
McDuffie's speech ? A. I liave not. Q. Have you heard Mr. 
Storrs speak of them ? A. I have not. Q. How many books 
did Mr. Storrs leave with you? A. I do not know. Q. Can 
you tell within a hundred ? A. I think there was not a hundred 
in the whole. Q. Did he leave all he had ? A. I do not know. 
Q. Did you take them out of his sleigh box ? A. I did not. Q. 
Q. Do ynu belong to the Anti-Slavery Society here? A. I do. 
Q. How many are there ? A. About a hundred and thirty, I 
believe. Q. What proportion of males ? A. I do not know. 
Q. Have any joined since March ? A. I should think so. Q. 
How many — has five joined since that time ? . A. I should think 
there had, more than that. Q. Name some of them? A. I 
don't know who in particular has joined. [Some questions and 
answers passed here about Mr. Sanborn's child carrying Anti- 
Slavery books to the children at school. — Some questions were 
asked, also, with respect to what passed at Mr. Sanborn's between 
Mr. Storrs and the Selectmen. As this testimony was similar to 
that of Mr. Templeton's, it is not reported here.] 

[Cross-examined by Mr. Starrs, in reference to what the Select- 
men of Northfield said in regard to Judge Atkinson and Samuel 
Tilton, Esq. of Sanbornton, sending them to see him. Mr. San- 
born gave the same testimony, in substance, on this point with 
Mr. Templeton.] 

Judge Atkinson now spoke and said, " I told them they had 
better go and see him and persuade him to give up his lecture." 

Joseph Smith, * sworn. Examined by Judge Atkinson. — 



* This witness was the other Selectman who visited me in com- 
pany with Mr. Wells. I was told by a person who said he was 
ready to make oath to it, that this witness said, " Mr. Storrs 
ought to be tarred and feathered." What wonder if such " Se- 
lectmen" should think "there would be a riot," when, it seems, 
they were determined to help make one ! ! G. S. 



16 

Q. Mr. Smith, are you one of the Selectmen of Northfield ? A. I 
am. Q. Did you call o.i Mr. Storrs and request him not to de- 
liver his lecture ? A. I did. Q. How came you to ? A. Byre- 
quest of the people. Q. What did he say? A. He said he was 
the servant of the society and should do as they wished him to. 
Q. Did you tell him you feared there would be a riot? A. Yes. 
Q. You did it to prevent a riot, did you? A. Yes. Q. What- 
ever Mr. Rogers* did was for this purpose, was it not ? A. Yes. 
Q. Where did you see Mr. Storrs ? A. At Mr. Sanborn's. Q. Did 
you tell him you was Selectman ? A. No : there was nothing 
said about it. Q. He said he should deliver it, if the Society did 
not request him not to? A. Yes, that was the substance of it. 
Q. He said this afl^r you told him of the excitement? A. Yes. 
Q. There was'a great excitement was there? A. Yes. 

Cross-examined by Mr. Storrs. Q. Who first came to request 
you to see me ? A. [Witness hesitated.] — I don't recollect — a 
great many. Q. Can you name any of them ? [Witness hesi- 
tated some time and gave no answer.] Q. Did Judge Atkinson? 
A. I talked with him about it. As I have been informed, it is a 
common thing for Selectmen to request you not to lecture. Q. 
Where has it been done ? A. Have not the Selectmen of Con- 
cord requested you not to? [Mr. Storrs replied, never.] Q. What 
man in Northfield requested you to come to me ? [Witness hesi- 
tated and then answered with considerable apparent irritation] 
Dolton was one — I don't recollect in particular — — I don't say 
that all these come — I did not care whether they come or not. — 
Question by Judge Atkinson. You went because you thought it 
was right ? A. Yes, so he need not go headlong. 

Dr. Enos Hoyt — sworn. Examined by Judge Atkinson. Q. 
Will you tell what you know ? A. Some time last week Capt. 
Hill called on me and named that they were going to have an ad- 



* Of Rogers, it may, be said, he was, probably, only the 
tool of others : a convenient one to employ, as he has no proper- 
ty, that is known of — had an illegitimate child some years since 
— and is a rum drinker. He is to be pitied. He sweat badly 
during the trial, though the coldest day we have probably had 
this winter. He had a hard time no' doubt, notwithstanding Es- 
quire Atkinson attended to all the business. 



17 

dress — and going to have it by day, so as to face the enemy, and 
requested me, as I was riding about town to give the friends no- 
tice. He likewise wished that I would request Mr. Conant to 
give notice from his desk. I hesitated, but finally informed Mr. 
Conant, and the address was appointed, and there was a consid- 
erable sensation visible. The next morning visited Mr. Glidden 
— found a number of the inhabitants thought there would be a 
riot — it was thought best to visit Mr. Storrs, and request him to 
pass away and prevent a riot— the Selectmen returned and said 
there was no prospect but that the address would be delivered. — 
The Selectmen then thought best to issue a warrant to prevent a 
mob — they thought that would be a less evil. 

Cross-examined by Mr. Storrs. Q. Were all the Selectmen pre- 
sent ? A. They were not. Two Selectmen were present ; it was 
only general advice of a number together, a dozen or more. Q. 
Can you give the names of some of the principal ones ? [Wit. 
ness gave no name.] Q. If there were a dozen, I should suppose 
you could give us the name of some of them — was Judge At- 
kinson one? A. I could not say. Q. Was Esq. Tilton? A. I 
could not say. I could not say, under oath, that any one in par- 
ticular did — I was of opinion myself that it was best to issue a 
warrant. Question by the Justice. Did you hear me advise, as 
one of^the Selectmen, to make out a warrant? A. I could not 
say.* Q. By Judge Atkinson. From the conversation you heard 
was it not thought there would be a riot ? A. It was. When Mr 
Storrs was here last spring, there, was difficulty in families ; there 
was in my family — some of the women and children got to be abo- 
litionists. The day after the address. last spring, Elder Harding 
came to my house, left pamphlets and newspapers — they were 
sent back again. Q. Was you at the meeting last Monday. A. 
Yes. [Witness was then questioned in regard to Mr. Storrs' 
reading.] He read in a little book — it read different from what 
I have been in the habit of hearing : I do not know whether it 
was all scripture or not. He then prayed — invoked a blessing 



* Dr. Hoyt had said, as will be seen by his testimony, that 
" the Selectmen [of whom only two were present] thought best 
to issue a warrant." 
1* 



18 

on Rulers — and expressed something about blacks, bought and 
sold like cattle in the market — and that they were degraded — de- 
nied the Bible, and religious privileges. 

Question by Mr- Storrs. Did I pray that the slaves might be 
quiet, patient, and not avenge themselves ! A. I believe you did. 

Henry Thorn — sworn. Questioned by Judge Atkinson. Do 
you know any thing about Mr. Storrs? A. I know only by re- 
port. Q. Have you heard him preach lately? A. Not within 
three or four years — had a meeting when he first came on the 
circuit at Mr. Merrill's — Q. "What do you know about the case 
before us? A. Don't know anything about it. 

Daniel Hill — sworn. Q. Was you requested to give Mr. Hoyt 
an invitation to circulate the appointment ? A. Was not. Q. 
Was Mr. Storrs here when the Society was formed ? A. He 
was. Q. Did he take an active part ? A. He did. Q. Who 
read the Constitution ? A. I cannot say. Q. How long was Mr. 
Siorrs here ? A. Cannot recollect — there was a protracted meet- 
ing at that time, and other ministers present. Q. How often 
does your Society meet ? A. It has a yearly meeting on Thanks- 
giving day. Q. Did it meet? A. It did. Q. Do you know how 
many belong to it ? A. I. do not. Q. Has there been any col- 
lections made ? A. I believe not. Q. Had you a Treasurer? 
A. I can't say. Q. Did Mr. Storrs request any collection ? — 
A. No T 

Mr. Sanborn was again called up by Judge Atkinson. Q. 
Have you a Treasurer ? A. We have. Q. Has there been a 
contribution? A. None. 

Question by M-. Storrs. Have I not told you that we take up 
no public collections. A. You have, I believe. 

question by Judge Atkinson. No public collections — have 
there not been private ones ? A. Not that I know of. 

The Prosecution now signified, that the examination of wit- 
nesses on their part was closed. Mr. Storrs then rose and said, 
" I shall make no defence at this time. I am ready to hear the 
sentence of the Court." 

The Justice immediately announced, f The opinion of the 
■Court is, that the Prisoner ought to be- discharged." 



v 



19 

The public will judge for themselves, whether the evidence' 
produced iu this trial is of such a character as to justify an 
Hen. Judge and Justice of the Peace throughout the State, in 
writing such a Complaint, Rogers in swearing that in his belief it 
was just and true, Justice Wells in issuing a warrant and Sheriff 
Tilton in violating the sanctuary of God, in tearing a minister 
from the pulpit, while on his knees, in the most solemn act of 
worship, prayer to Almighty God, — and whether the people of 
the State of New-Hampshire, in the behalf of which the complaint 
was made, are willing to pay cost incurred by such prosecutions. 

At the close of the Cosrt, Mr. Storrs addressed himself to 
Judge Atkinson, told him he had understood the mob party had 
threatened to be upon him and '■black' 11 him if the Justice acquit- 
ted him. The Judge assured him he should have no molesta- 
tion, and he , had none, thus showing, it would seem, that the 
Judge and the Sheriff have had an increase of influence since the 
two "hard" days labor spoken of by the Sheriff, or else the in- 
fluence they first exerted was turned in another direction. 

After Mr. Storrs was discharged, he had no occasion to be a 
"beggar," to prove which Judge Atkinson labored so hard with 
the witnesses. His friends gathered arousd him, and one after 
another, with their free will offerings, supplied him with much 
more than was needful to meet all the expenses his detention 
and prosecution had occasioned him. 

In presenting to the public this account of rny arrest and trial, 
I wish to say a few words to my Christian friends in particular. 

Dear Friends, I doubt not that it has been through your pray, 
ers, instrumentally, that through all the scenes I have passed in 
this matter, God has kept my mind in perfect peace. Never did 
I realize deeper and sweeter communion with Him, and feel more 
the excellency of the religion of Jesus Christ. The strengthen- 
ing of my religious principles has, to me, been great gain. Those 
principles which teach us to trust in God at all times ; and lead 
us to reject the abominable doctrine, that we are not to do duty, 
or obey Him through fear that some imaginary evil "consequen- 
ces" may follow. God is true to his word. Not cue jot thereof 
shall in anywise fail. While duty to the oppressed may make it 



20 

necessary that we should expose the wickedness and malice of those 
who have outraged our rights, I beseech you pray for them, pity 
them, and indulge in no revengeful feelings towards them.— 
" They know not what they do." Let us rejoice if God shall ac- 
count us worthy to suffer anything with those in bonds as bound 
with them. May the time Soon come when oppression shall 
cease. Allow me to say in conclusion I was never more satisfied 
than now of the perfect agreement of the principles of abolition 
with the Bible — and never more determined that, nothing but 
death, or the overthrow of slavery shall induce me to stop plead- 
ing in behalf of perishing slaves. GEO. STORRS. 
Concord, N. B., Dec. 22, 1835. 



APPEND.IX 



About two hours previous to the time appointed for the sermon 
on Monday, at Northfield, Rev. Mr. Templeton had an interview 
with Judge Atkinson, in which the Judge gave him to under- 
stand that Mr. Storrs would be arrested if he attempted to lec- 
ture. Mr. Templeton said, he had given notice to the people 
that they should have a sermon, and if Mr. Storrs was arrested 
he should give them one himself. To this the Judge replied, if 
he did he would have his " face blacked." Mr. Templeton re- 
sponded, "I had rather have a black face than &~b\a,ck conscience." 

After Mr. Storrs' arrest, Mr. Templeton read the notiee that 
was given of the meeting the day previous, then chose for his 
text, Eccl. 4th chapter, 1st and 2d verses. The Records o^the 
Anti-Slavery Society say, that he addressed them " in an able and 
interesting manner." 

Mr. Templeton had never made an attempt to give a sermon 
on slavery before ; his effort, therefore, was much to the credit 
of his head and heart. 



21 

Let mobs force away one lecturer, the Lord can speedily raise 
up another to till his place. Mr. Templeton was cheered a little 
in the course of his sermon, by the fag end of the mob, who tar- 
ried behind or returned after Mr. Storrs was taken away. 



March, of Mind. 

The inventive and improving genius of our people is not lim- 
ited to material or inanimate objects. It extends to those intel- 
lectual and spiritual agencies, known vulgarly by the name of 
mobs — the staple of the republic and its gkny. Some of these 
precious manifestations, which are every where bidding us not to 
despair of the republic (or of the Granite State) have recently 
been elicited, which demonstrate, that there is a redeeming spirit 
"in the people! — and that in our other improvements and advance- 
ments our mobocrac}" is not forgotten by us. 

Our ingenious fellow-citizen, the honorsble Judge Atkinson, 
got up one the other day at Sanbornton-Northfield, which pro- 
mises to afford the desideratum so much desired by the higher 
classes — and the want of which has been such an embarrassment 
in our lace mobs — a mob according to law. Our aristocracy are 
afraid of the mob, because it is contrary to law, and they are 
apprehensive it will not confine itself to anti-slavery men — but 
will begin by and by to bray and paw at some of their own 
•thresholds. The la,w is a convenient protection, and the mob 
does not exactly acknowledge it. But Judge Atkinson's mob is 
according to law. Mr. Storrs intended to lecture in Northfield.— 
The anti-slavery people there wanted him to address them. To 
prevent his being mobbed contrary to law, the Judge got up a 
mob according to law, as they vaccinate to keep off small pox. 
The Judge as was understood, drew a complaint for wanton and 
lascivious conversation and idleness, and such other things, in 
the vagrancy act, as most shocked his moral sensibilities, (say- 
ing nothing of drinking) and let a poor, irresponsible " gentle- 
man," without " property or standing, - ' swear to it in advance, 
and had a warrant issued on awte-facts, and put on to Mr. Storrs, 
just as he was dissolving the Union, by a prayer that the slave 
might not be left to rise upon his oppressors — alamode de '76 8 



22 

■'Squire Tilton served it in the true spirit of the compact, and, ex- 
cept the brutality and rudeness of it, in a way to meet the wishes 
of our " southern brethren." The details of the Judge of Pro- 
bate's invention will be found in this paper. 

Another specimen of mobocracy occurred at Bradford since 
the above — a sort of town mob. It differs from the Canaan mob, 
which was according to vote of the town — this being by authority 
of the Selectmen merely, without the intervention of " town 
meeting" — a sort of incident to their offices, as prudential fath- 
ers of the town. The following proclamation which is inserted 
verbatim, literatim et punctuation and sptll-atim, is the model of this 
improvement. There is no limit to yankee genius — and what is 
peculiar, our great men are among our inventors — men high in 
station deign to stoop to trial of their wits, and compete for the 
honors of the patent office. 

To Rev. George storres Sir 

We had the evidince of your 
going to hold forth in the Meeting house of this place — the 
disorganizing doctrine of abolition to the utter detestation 
of 19/20th of the Peaceble inhabitants of this place — we 
therefore as Selectmen of the Town of Bradford request you 
to desist from the under taking, by . so doing you mani- 
fest your regard for our laws and the peac of the citizen of 
Bradford and likewise show that you can be operated upon 
by some thing beside Lynch law., by your noncomplyanc 
you will manifest to world that nothomg but mob. will de- 
ter you Moses D Wadley ) Select 
John Harriman J Men of 

J Bradford 

Bradford Dec 21—1835 

Well may our fellow-citizens Wadley and Harriman be styled 
" select" among the " men of Bradford." They are not ignorant 
of the name of Lynch, that sage of the law, who is to supersede 
in this republic the old Cokes and Hales, and the modern Mar- 
shall. 



Extract from Geo. Storrs' Journal. 

1835. Dec. 19th. Came to Bradford. Received a hearty wel- 
come by Rev. 0. G. Thatcher, Congregational Minister — an un- 
flinching abolitionist. The report of my arrest, at Northfield, 
had arrived at Bradford before me. 

Dec. 20th. Spent the Sabbath pleasantly with Mr. Thatcher— 
by his request preached three times, to his congregation, during 
the day and evening. Mr. Thatcher made appointments for 
meetings on slavery to-morrow afternoon and evening. 

Dec. 22. Just as I was about to go to the meeting house, in 
Bradford, yesterday, I received a very singular document, from 
two of the selectmen of that town, which may be seen in anoth- 
er part of this paper. We soon discovered that a Mub of the 
"PEACEABLE CITIZENS" had collected, and were nerving 
themselves up to keep the "peace" by the old and faithful ally of 
slaveholders, RUM ! ! 

As the meeting house is owned by the town, it was thought 
advisable to hold our meeting in a hall near by, which was kind- 
ly offered us by the owner, a lady. Mr. Thatcher, myself and 
some others passed near by the mob without molestation. We 
entered the hall followed by those who had come to hear the lec- 
ture, and the mob party also. There was but slight disturbance 
ir> the hall. For a time it seemed probable that notwithstanding 
the previous threatening aspect, we might be able to hold our 
meeting in peace. I commenced by prayer — proceeded to make 
remarks in regard to the objects, views, and designs of abolition- 
ists. I had arrived nearly to the middle of my lecture, when one 
after another of the mob party rose and went out. Presently 
the hurrah began. The hall was open underneath. The mob 
commenced with -violent assaults against the floor under my' feet, 
this was followed with violent blows against the outside of the 
hou.5e immediately behind me — these efforts to keep the " peace" 
and "preserve the constitution" were continued, with very little 
intermission, through the remaining part of my lecture. We 



2d 

had quietness, however, within, 'and I finished in peace. The 
mob now collected about the door, having stripped ahorse of his 
Jeading lines; which, doubtless, could do much better without 
them than they. After waiting in the house awhile, I passed out 
through the mob, in company with Eev. Mr. Thatcher and his 
family, without any other molestation than a little of the serpent- 
ine hissing, and something said about " nigger" and " don't you 
come here again." Our meeting in the evening was about two 
miles i "om the place* where it was held in the daytime. As 
there was a steep hill to ascend, and the mobites had gotten their 
legs weakened by rum so as to make it difficult to climb, or had 
already obtained so great " a crown of lionovf — that we held our 
^meeting without interruption. 

I learned some rather musical conversation took place at the 
Post Office or store near by where I lectured, in the forenoon pre- 
vious. There was .a conjecturing who this Storrs was. Some 
thought he was a " foreigner," others concluded he must be a 
"southerner;" his complexion indicated that he had "nigger 
blood in him" — others thought that could not be, for " his hair 
was straight:'" None of them, however, took me for a slavehold- 
er, or an apologist for slavery ; it is, therefore, no matter about 
the rest. 



