Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/addresstopeopleo1791foxw 



AN 




ADDRESS^ 

■^°^«^^ ;/^^.-^ 

People of Great Britain, 

on the utility of refraining from 
The use of 

Wejl India Sugar and Rum. 



Why did all-creating Nature 

Make the Plant for =which ^we toil ? 
Sighs inufl fail it, Tears niufi 'water ^ 

Snjoeat of 07irs mnji dtefs the Soil, 
Think ye Majiersj iron-hearted. 

Lolling at your jon)ial Boards, 
Thijik honx) many Backs hanjej?narted 

For the S'Weets your Cafie affords ! 



Cow PER 's Negro's Complaint^ 



T]ie Fifth Edition, corre6led. 



SoidbyM. GuRNEY, No. 128, Holborn-Hill, 

and W. DaRton and Co. No. ^^^ 

Graccchiirch-Street. 

1791. 

Price id. or fourteen for a fhiiling. 

N. B. Perfons wanting a larger Number to give 
away may be fupplicd at five Shilling's per Hundred, 
by applying to M. Gurney* 






'■^wTCtjVvIthilanding the late determination of the '7(0 
J. S Houfe of Commons on the Slave-Trade, we CC^Aa 
may hope that the difcuflion it has received will' ^ • 
not be ufelefs ; and that the public attention has 
ijot been excited In vain, to a fyftera of cruelty 
which it is painful even to recite. It maybe hoped 
that, claiming for ourfelves the moft perfect free- 
dom, we fliali no longer impofe upon otliers a 
flavery the moft oppreilive ; and that, enjoying a 
degree of felicity unequallcjd in any age or coun- 
try, we fhall ceale to range the world to incrcafc 
the mifery of mankind. 

The luft of power, and the pride of conqucfb, 
have donbtlefs produced inliances far too numerous, 
of man enilaved by man. But we, in an enlight- 
ened age, have greatly furpaffed, in brutality and 
injuftice, the mcfl jgnorant and barbarous ag-es : 
and while we are pretending to the fin ell: feelings 
of humanity,. areexercifing unprecedented cruelty^ 
We h.ive planted ilavery in tho rank foil of for- 
did avarice; and the produce has been mifery in the 
extreme. We have alcertained, by a courfe of ex- 
peiimen.'s in cruelty, the Jeall: portion of nourifh- 
ment requifite to enable man to linger a few years 
in mifery : the greateil q^uantity of labour, which 
in fuch a lituation,-the extreme of puniihment can 
extort ; and the utmofl: degree of pain, labour, and 
hunger united, the human frame.can endure, with- 
,out terminating its exigence. 

In vain have fuch fcenes been developed. The 
wealth derived from the horrid traffic, has created 
an influence that fecures its continuance ; unlefs 
the people at large *fhall /ap its foamdation, by re^- 
fufmg to receive the produce of robbery and mur- 
der. The LegiiiarAjre having re fufed to interpofe, 
the people arc; now necefTanly called on, either to 
reprobate or approve the meafure ; for WePcTndian 
Slavery muft depend upon their fupport for its ex- 
igence, and it is in the power of every individual 
to increafe, or to diminifli its extent. The laws of 
our country may indeed prohibit us the fugar-cane, 
unlefs we will receive it through the medium of 
ilavery. They mzy ^^old it to our lips, fteeped in 

the 



the blood of our tellow-creatures ; but they can- 
not compel us to accept the loathiome potion. 
With us it refts, either to receive it and be part- 
ners in the crime^ or to exonorate ourfelves from 
guilt, by fpurning from ns the proffered tempta- 
tion. For let us not think, that the crime reds 
alone Avith thofe that condu6l the traffic, or thp 
legiilature by whom it is proteded : if we purchafe 
the commodity we participate in the crime. The 
llave-dealer, the Have-holder, and the ilave-driver, 
are virtually the agents of the confamer, and may 
be coafidered as employed and hired by him to pro- 
cure the commodity. For^ by holding oat the 
temptation, he is the^original caufe, the firii mover 
in the horrid procefs ; and every diftindion is done- 
away by the moral maxim. That wiiatever we do- 
by another, we do- ourfelves. 

' As neither the fiave-dealer, nor the planter, can 
have any moral right to the perfon of him they 
flile their flave, to his labour, or to the produce of 
it ; fo they can convey no riglit in that produce 
to us: and v/hatever number of hands it may pafs 
through, if the criminal circumfliances appertain- 
ing to it be known to them at the time of the 
transfer, they can only have a criminal poffeffion: 
and the money paid, either for the Have, or for the 
produce of his labour, is paid to obtain that criminal 
poiTeffion ; and can confer no moral right whatever. 
So, if the death of the perfon called a flave, be 
occalioned by the criminal poffeffion, the criminal 
poffieffiDr is guilty of murder; and we, who have 
knowingly done any a6l which might occafion his 
being in that fituation, are acceffiiries to the murder 
before the fa61: ; as by receiving the produce of his 
labour, w^e are acceffiiries to the robbery, after 
the fa6t. 

If we, as individuals concerned in the Slave Trade 
(either by procuring the Slaves — compelling them 
to labour—- or receiving the produce) imagine that 
our fhare in the tranfaclion is fo minute that it 
cannot perceptibly increafe the injury ; let us recol- 
U61: that, tho' numbers partaking of a crime may 
A 2 ' dimipiifhk 



( 4 ) 
d'iminiiTi the fliame, they cannot dimlnifli its 
turpitude. Can we fLippofe that an injury of 
enormous magnitude can take place, and the crimi- 
nality be deilroyed merely by the criminals becom- 
ing fo numerous as to render their refpsftiveiliares 
indiftinguifliahic? Were an hundred aflaflins to 
plunge their daggers into their vi6lim5 though each 
might plead that without his afTiilance the crime 
would have been compleated, and that liis poniard 
neither occalioned nor accelerated the murder^ yet 
every one of them would be guilty of the intire 
crime. For into how many parts foever a criminal 
•adion may be divided, the crime itfelf refls intire 
and compleat on every perpetrator. 

But in this cafe we are by no means warranted 
to confider our individual fliare in a trivial point of 
view. The confumption of fugar in this country 
is fo immenfe, that the quantity commonly nfed by 
individuals will have an important eiFe6l. A family 
that ufes 51b. of fugar per week, with the proportion 
of rum, will, by abfiaining from the confumption 
21 months, prevent the llavery or murder of one 
fellow-creature ; eight fuch families in 19! years, 
prevent the flavery or murder of loo, and 38,000 
would totally pp^vent the Slave Trade, to fuppiy 
our iflands. Nay, fo necelTarily connected are our 
confumption of the commodity, and the mifery 
refulting from it, that in every pound of fugar ufed, 
(the produce of flaves imported from Africa) we 
may be confidered as confuming tv/o ounces of hu- 
man flefh, befides an alarming number of feamen 
deftroyed by the flave-trade, and the inconceivable 
anguifti and mifery that muft refult from parents 
being torn from their families,and children from their 
parents, villages burnt, and continual fufpicion, ter- 
ror and difmay, fpread thro' an extenfive country. 
A French writer obferves, ''That he cannot look on 
*' a piece of fugar without conceiving it ftained 
** with fpots of human blood :" And Dr. Franklin 
very properly adds, " that had he taken in all the 
*' confequences, he might have feen the fugar not 
^* merely fpotted but dyed fcarlet in grain." 

Dreadful 



( 5 ) 

Dreadful confideratlon, that our increaflng happi— 
nefs and profperity, has fpread defolationandmifery 
over a country as large as all Europe ! For it is an 
indifputable fa6i:, that it is Britiili luxury, the 
African Slave Trade depends on for fuppcrt : they 
have increafed, and they would fall together.—- 
Our confumption of fugar is now fo immenfe^ that 
it nearly equals the confumption of all Europe be- 
fides ; and Jamaica now fupplies more fugar than 
all our vVefl India lilands did at any period prior 

to 1755- 

But amazingly extenfive as is the increafe of the 
culture, fo far is it from keeping pace with our lux- 
ury, that (before the diflurbances in the French, 
lilands, within thefe two or three years) fugars have 
ever fold in the Britiili market 20 or30, fometimes 
^Oper cent, dearer than in any other part of the 
world, and it is to form new plantations for the 
fupply of this our increafmg luxury, that the 
wretched Africans are torn from their native land* 

Let us then imagine cur immenfe confumption^ 
wholly, or in great part to ceafe, and our fugars to 
be thrown on the foreign markets ; would additional 
ilaves be wanted to fupply an oversowing market at 
a falling price ? Tlie African Giave Trade, by 
whornfoever condudledj to fupply fugar colonies, by 
whatever nation. pofTe fled ^ miift totally ceafe. Hor- 
ror and difmay would give place to peace and civi- 
lization, through a coafl of above three thoufand 
miles extent, and above a thoufand miles inland: 
for fo extenfive are our depredations, and fo exten- 
five are the beneiits which it is in our power to 
confer. Nor v/ould they ceafe, even here.. The 
Weft India iilands, finding lefs demand for fugar, 
muft appropriate lefs ground to the fugar cane, and 
leave more for proviiions: the flaves would 
be lefs worked, better fed, and in a few years con- 
fifl: entirely of native Creoles. Or if the planters ap- 
propriate the land to the other produ6lions of the 
iflands, the fame beneficial efFccfU muft enfue : for 
Mr. Cooke tells us, '' the cultivation of cotton, 
pimentOj and cofFee, is ealier than fugar ; the Slaves 

A 3 look 



( 6 ) 

look better, ^nd increafe fafter ;" and inflead of re- 
quiring additional flaves, they would be able to in- 
creafe their plantations with thofe already in the 
Idands. Foi Governor Parry tells us, *' one acre of 
fugar requires as much labour as three of cotton." 
Thus our refraining from the confumption of the 
fugar cane, even for a few years, would deftroy the 
flave trade to the Weft India Iflands ; bring frefh 
land into culture and place the flaves in thofe Iflands 
in fuch a fituation that they muft rapidly increafe. 
The diminution of the confumption of V/eft India 
produce, would alfo have a powerful effect by fink- 
ing the price of the commodity ; and thereby take 
away the temptation to import additional flaves. 
The effe6l a fmall varia'tion inthefupply or demand 
has on the price, we have recently experienced. 
The fmall interruption of the fupply on the con- 
tinent, by the diflurbances in the French fugar 
iflands, has fuddenly raifed fome of the markets, 
which were 20 or 30 fer cent, lower than the 
Eritifli, much above it; and thereby occafioned an 
exportation from this country to fupply the defi- 
ciency : and our exportation, though only amoun- 
ting to a loth of our importation, has raifed our 
fugars ^o percent. And as a fall in the price would 
oblfrucS the flave trade, and meliorate the condi- 
tion of the flaves ; fo this rife will produce effe6ls 
the moft baneful. The planter, tempted by the high 
price to get fugar and rum to market while that 
high price continues, will deprive his flaves of their 
provifion grounds, to plant them with canes ; and 
by the energy of the whip, they will J)e forced to 
the mofi: extreme exertions. The 7nurder, or, in the 
technical language of the Weft Indies, the lofs of 
his flaves, will be to him but a fecondary confidera- 
tion. The large crop and the high price will amply 
compenfate him: and the queftion now is, not mere- 
ly whether we fhall hold out to him an inducement 
to purchafe additional flaves; but whether v/e fhall 
tempt him to murder thofe he already has. We 
can hardly doubt but that Weft Indian packets have 
already borne the murderous difpatches, exprefTed in 
language too dreadfully explicit, and to the fol- 
lowing 



( 7 ) 

lowing effe(3:. ''The price of fvtgar and rum 

" liill continues high. You mui\ adopt every mode 
*' to forward as large a cargo as poilible^ , A fortu- 
*' nate crifis now ofFers itfelf for extricating, my 
'' eftate from the difficulties in which it is involved. 
*' We muft avail ourfelves of it : another may never 
" occur. Confequences, tho' difagreeable, mufl: at 
" the prefent moment be overlooked. The ilave 
" market is ftili open for a fupply. New-fangled hu- 
" man'ity {s no more J*' The day hardly dawns when 
the w^hip'^refounds through thofe regions of horror; 
nor ceafes, till darknefsclofes the fccne, which day 
after day is rene wed. The miferable vi6lims,dei-i:itute 
of every fource of comfort to body or to mind, and 
finking under the three endemic difeafes of our 
iflands, hunger, torture, and extreme labour ; and 
urged to exertions they are unable to fuftain, at 
length expire beneath the lafh, which in vain er- 
deavours toroufe them to a renewal of their labour. 

After the important confiderations adduced. It 
might be reckoned a degradation of the fubjedl to 
mention the national dignity; or even that might 
induce us to countera6t a powerful body of men, 
who are equally trampling under foot, the didlates 
of humanity, and the intereft of the nation. 

Men, who, by enjoying amonopoly ofcheBritifh 
market, have in 50 years received for fugar alone, 
above 70 millions more than it w^ould have coft at 
any other market. And from Mr. Botham's evi- 
dence it appears, that in Batavia, where labour is 
as high asinEngland, fugar, equal to the beftWefl 
India, is fold at id. \ per pound. Thefe are the 
men, who have the audacity to oppofe a plan for 
fupplyingus with fngars, without violating juflice; 
and are purchafing fhares in a company, in order 
to defeat itspurpofe. Thefe are the men who de- 
clare, "That the Britifh legiflature cannot abolifli 
the flave trade ; for that if we rcfufe to furnifh them 
with flaveSj they will obtain a fupply through other 
channels. This language i« adopted by a governor 
of BarbadoeSj who admonifhes us,*' From policy to 

leave 



( 8 ) 
leave thelflands, to the quiet management of tlieir 
own affairs'' They have it Teems been taught, that 
we have no right to controul them: that the a£i:s 
of their aiTcmblies alone are obligatory; and that . 
thofeof Eritifli legiilators, are binding only on thofe 
whom they reprefcnt. The right of en {laving 
others, they contend for, as the mofb valuable of 
their privileges. 

Thus it appears that the legiflature is not only 
unwilling, but perhaps unable, to grant^ redrefs ; 
and theref;:)re itis more peculiarly incumbent on us ; 
To abjta'infrom the life of [ugar andrum^ until our fVefi 
India Planters themfclvcs have prohibited the importation 
cf additional JIavcs, and commenced as fpeedy and effec- 
tual a fubvcrfion offtavery in their ijlands^ as the cir- 
cumftaHces and Jltuation of the flaves will admit : or 
till vje can obtain th^ produce of the fugar cane i?i fome 
ether mode^ unconnccfed with flavci'y^ arid unpolluted 
with blood. 

\ For though the x'U"rican flave trade, be the moil 
prominent feature in this wickednefs; yet it is 
but a feature: and Vv'ere it aboliflied the Wefl India 
ilavery would flill exiU. Our planters would breed, 
inftead of importing ilaveSjand /hail wefulfer half a 
million of fellov/ fvibjevSis, and their pofterity, to 
be held in ilavery for ever? I fay, fellow fubjecls, 
for undoubtedly, every perfou born in the domini- 
ons of Great Britain, is a fubje61, bound to obey, 
and intituled to the protediion of the common law 
of England; raid in oppofition to v/hich,the adts of 
afTemblies, can be of no authority. 

In demanding liberty then for the perfons called 
Haves in our Iflands : we demand no more than they 
are intituled to by the common law. The moil 
eligible mode of putting them in polTeffion of their 
legal and natural right ; may be a queflion of diffi- 
culty; but it is a queftion that ought to be con- 
fidered with no other view, but to their happinefs. 
The plan to be adopted, ought to be certain and 
fpeedy in its operation, without any confideration 
of the fuppofed, or even real intereft, of tlieir op- 
prelTors ; and ktit be remembered, that it is in the 

powec 



( 9 ) 
power of a fmall proportion of the people of England 
to elieft it J by rcfufmg to receive the produce. The 
planters themfelves would adopt the plan, were that 
the only means, by which they could find a lale at 
the Britifh market : nor would the legifiature be 
then harrailedwith prepofterous claims for compen- 
fation ; which, however "unfounded in juftice or rea- 
fon, might be fupported by influence, and enforced 
with clamour. 

If ignorance and inattention may be pleaded as our 
excufe hitherto, yet that can be the cafe no longer. 
The fubjecSl: has been four years before the public. 
Its dreadful wickednefs has been fully proved. Every 
falfeliood, every deception with which it has been 
difguifed, has been compleatly done awa.y; and it 
ftaiids before us in all its native horrors. No lon- 
ger can it be pretendedj that Africa is a barbarous, 
uncultivated land, inhabited by a race of favages in- 
fsirior to the refl of the human fpecies. Mr. How, 
who was employed by government to go up the 
country, depofes, that inland it is every where 
well cultivated, abounding v/ith rice, millet, pota- 
toes, cotton and indigo plantations ; and that the 
inhabitants are quick in learning languages, and re- 
markably induiirious, horpitablc and obliging. It 
appears that they poffefs noble and heroic minds, ~mmm 

difdaining flavery, and frequently feeking refuge fsSp 

from it in the arms of death. Nor ihall we be 
again told, of the fuperior happinefs tkey enjoy 
under the benevolent care of the planters, Mr. 
Coor having depofed that fetting flaves to work in / 

the morning, is attended with loud peals of whip- / 

ping;— and General Tottenham, '' that there is 
'^ no comparifon between regimental flogging, 
*' v/hich only cuts the fkin, and the plantation, 
" which cuts out the fle£h,"-andCapt.Hall,« That 
'' the pUnifliments are very fliocking, much more 
*' {o than in men of war," — andCapt. Smith, ''that 
*' at every flroke of the vv^hip apiece of fiefli is cut 
'^ out," — andMr. Rofs, '' that he confiders a com- , 

'^ parifon between Weft -India flaves and tlie Britifli l 



<( 



pcafantrv, as an infwlt to common fenfe. 

The 



( 10 ) 

The cafe now fully lies before us ; and we have to 
make our choice, either to join ouifelves with thefe 
manufadlurers of human woe, or to renounce tlie 
horrid airociation. If we adopt the former, let us 
at leaft have the candour to avow our condu6l in 
its real deformity. Let us no longer afFedl to deplore 
the^ calamities attendant on the Slave Trade, of 
which we are the primary caufe: nor let us pretend 
to execrate the conduct" of the ilave-dealer, the 
fiave-holderj or the flave driver; but apologize for 
them as our partners in iniquity: and be aflured, that 
if we now. take our iliare in the tranfadion, we 
fliould, were we placed in a fimilar fituation with 
them, with as little compun6lion take theirs ; unlefs 
we can fuppofe the order of nature would be fo far 
inverted, as that we fhould become virtuous, in 
proportion as the temptation to vice increafed. Nor 
fhould we then, any more than now, be deflitute 
of fubterfuges to deftroy the feelings of our minds, 
and the convictions of our confciences. With them 
we might pretend the inconfiderablenefs of our ihare 
in the evil, or that the crime does not neceffarily 
attach, in regard to us : But were fuch excufes 
true, as they are evidently falfe> yet 'vould thay. 
llQl toii^ ?. defence ; even fuppofing for a moment, 
that the calamities and opprefnon, had an exift-- 
ence from caufes totally independent of us. It 
is fufficient that a fcene of calamity and oppreffion 
exifls, and that we have it in our power jointly 
with others, to remedy it ; and it is our duty to 
contribute cur iliare, in hope that others v/ill 
theirs ; nor indeed fhould we on many other fimi- 
occallons refort to fuch excufes; for inftance. 

Let us fuppofe the Algerines to eftablifh fugar- 
plantations,that it was the intereft of a body of men 
amonglT: us, that we fliould purchafe fugar of the 
Algerines alone ; and that tliey fhould have influ- 
ence fufficient with the legidature, to procure pro^ 
hibitory duties to prevent our reforting to any C'tker- 
market than that of Algiers, and that iii confequc-nce 
we took the whole of their produ6^. Let us fup- 
pofe, that the Algerines fhould refort to the banks 

of 



( II ) 

©ftlie Thames for ilaves; as the only place to be 
infalted with impunity. Suppofe our wives, our 
hufoands, our children, our parents, our brethren, 
fwept away, and the fruit of their labour, pro- 
duced with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs, 
landed at the port of London. What would be 
our conduft ? Should we fay, fugar is a necelTary of 
life, I cannot do without it; befides the quantity I 
ufe is but a fmall proportion, and though it is very 
criminal of the Algerines to enflave others, yet I 
am not bound to look to the nature or coniequences 
of the tranfa'flion ; and paying for the fugar, I have 
a right to confume it, however it may be obtained. 
If fuch would he our language ; let it be fo on the 
prefent occafion. ; as the only difference is, that our 
relation to the enilaved is rather more remote, but 
in both cafes they are our brethren. 

But it ishardly requifite to ftate fo flrong a cafe 
as that fuppofed : For were only oneEnglifhman 
to receive injuries, that bore but the flightefl: re- 
femblance to thofe daily committed in our illands, 
the whole nation would be inflamed with refent- 
ment, and clamorous to avenge the injury. 
And can our pride fuggelt to us, that the rights 
of men are limited to any nation, or to* any 
colour, Or, were any one to treat a fellow crea- 
ture in this country as we dothe unhappy Africans 
in the Weft-Indies; ftruck with horror, we Oiould 
be zealous to deliver the opprefTed, and punifli the 
oppreilor. Are then the ofnces of humanity and func- 
tions of juftice to be circumfcribed by geographical 
boundaries ? Can reafon, can conicience juftify this 
contrail in our condu6l, between our promptitude 
in the ^ne cafe, and our torpor in the other? — Mr. 
Addifij/n juftly obferves, that ^'humanitv to become 
eftiiuAblc muft be combined with juftice 1" But we 
feei^ to ?iS: as if we thought that the relief of our 
felipw-creatures, prote6lion from injuries, commu- 
nication ot benefits, were works of fuperero^rationto 
[be gr-^iuted or with -held, as caprice, or cuftom, or 
rncli nation may luggeft. 



( 12 ) 

We are now called on to redrefs evils, in compa- 
rifon with which, all that exift in this nation fnu? 
beneath our notice; and the only facrifice we ale 
required to make in order to cifeA it, is the ahan-^ 
doning of a luxury which habit alone can have ren- 
dered of importance. If we refufe, can we form 
the lenil: pretence to a moral character ? May it not 
be juftly inferred, that thofe numerous difplaysof 
humanity, of which this kingdom boalU, have not 
their foundation in any virtiious or valuable prin- 
ciple, but that to cuftom and oftentation tlicy 
owe their origin ? And if our execration of die 
flave trade be any thing moretlian mere declamation 
againfr crimes we are not in a fituatir.n to commit, 
we iliall inftead of being folicitous to find defpica- 
ble diflindlicns to jufliify our conduct, abhor the 
idea of contributing, in the leail degree, to fuch 
fcenesof mjfery. 

Hardened by habit, the mind is with difficulty 
acceffible to the conviffliions of guilt. Our actions 
are not eafily influenced by the forcf^ of moral prin- 
ciple, when counteracted by cuftom: and ihegroHell 
violations of duty maybe pra6lifed without com- 
pun6lion, when fanclioned by the conduct of our 
afTociates. Such fituations, are more peculiarly the 
tefl: of our virtue, and in fuch fituations it is more 
peculiarly incumbent on us. to inveftigate oarcon- 
du6l with the moft anxious folicitude, ^nd guarded 
fufpicion ; and to fortify our minds withythe force 
of m.oral principle, or the fanclions of reliVion. In 
proporti n as we are under their infiuence,\ve /hall 
not only refufe to do any z&: which tends toHhe in- 
jury of the unhappy Africans, but exert ourfelves to 
the ut moft, in our refpeclive fituations, to extricate 
them from their calamities. For the confcquence 
©f ourcondu6t may not be limited by its immtdiate 
eftedls. Our example, our admonitions, our influ- 
ence may produce remote ones, of which we C9m 
form no'eftimate ; and which, after having done '^ur 
duty, muft be rui:)mitted to Hiin who goveriiS a\l 
things after the counfcl of his own vvill. | 

FINIS. 



