Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/everymanhisownprOOIond 



ISbfig iW^an W oS»n ^^topttt^ 



ADDRESSED 



TO THE SUPPORTERS AND TO THE OPPONENTS 



OF 



THE RECORD NEWSPAPER. 



Extracted, ivith Corrections, from the Christian Observer, Dec. 1833. 



LONDON: 
HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW. 

MDCCCXXXIII. 

Price 2d. or Is. Qd.per dozen. 



A.r f 



710 



cr 
-31 

CO 



EVERY MAN HIS OWN PROPERTY. 



It is argued^ that some portion of mankind may claim 
an absolute property^ a fee-simple, in the persons of 
others. Blackstone ■*, Johnson f^ and Paley X, have 
decided in the negative. The word of God alone could 
create the property in question. Now, where is it writ- 
ten ? Is it declared in the punishment of Ham ? That 
punishment was, that one of his sons (Canaan), and that 
son's posterity, as following the example of their 
father's general depravity, when the measure of their 
iniquity was full, should bring on themselves destruc- 
tion — namely, the extirpation of seven nations of their 
race, and the forfeiture of their land and property. The 
following passages include a summary of what is re- 
vealed of its fulfilment. Gen. ix. 25 — 27 : "" And he 
said. Cursed be Canaan ; a servant of servants shall he 
be unto his brethren. And he said. Blessed be the Lord 
God of Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant. God 
shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of 



* Commentaries, b. i. ch. 1, " On the absolute Rights of Indi- 
viduals ; " and ch. 14, " On Master and Servant." 

f " Argument in Favour of a Negro claiming his Liberty," 1777. 
Dr. Johnson closes his remarks thus: — " The sum of the argument 
is this : No man is by nature the property of another. The defendant 
is therefore by nature free. The rights of nature must be some way 
forfeited, before they can be justly taken away. That the defendant 
has by any act forfeited the rights of nature, we require to be proved ; 
and if no proof of such forfeiture can be given, we doubt not but the 
justice of the court will declare him free." 

\ Moral Philosophy, b. ii. ch. 10. 



Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant." Gen. x. 6 : 
" And the sons of Ham -, Cush, and Mizraim, and 
Phut, and Canaan." Here four sons of Ham are named. 
It appears, then, that the curse of extermination fell on 
one branch only of Ham's family, and of seven nations 
of Canaan's posterity. Some few others of the Ca- 
naanites, in common with some of the surrounding 
nations — such as the Edomites and Ammonites, which 
were the descendants of Abraham though still the ene- 
mies of the Israelites — were to be captured in war, in 
case they refused submission to those Israelites ; that 
is, made captive as bondmen. The prophecy, however, 
did not authorize any one to inflict the punishment at 
his pleasure : he might not take the prediction into his 
own hands, by compelling the servitude. 

But it is also asserted that Abraham was a slave- 
holder. The first allusion to servants is Gen. xii. 16 : 
'' And he," Pharaoh, '' entreated Abram well for her 
sake : and he," Abram, " had sheep, and oxen, and he- 
asses, and men-servants, and maid- servants" — all which 
were gifts from Pharaoh. In Gen. xx. 14, " Abimelech," 
who was a Canaanitish king, " took sheep, and oxen, 
and men-servants, and women-servants, and gave them 
unto Abraham." Gen. xiv. 14, '' Abram. .. .armed his 
trained servants, born in his house, three hundred and 
eighteen." In Gen. xv. 2, 5, Abram says, '' Lord God, 
what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the 
steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?.... 
one born in my house is my heir." Now in Gen. xvii. 
12, 13, it is said, '' He that is born in the house, or 
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of 
thy seed, he that is born in thy house, and he that is 
bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised " — 
that is, fully admitted to the privileges of the covenant. 
Gen. xxiv. 2, Abraham's " eldest servant.... ruled over 
all that he had." In the same chapter occurs the ac- 
count of which Bishop Horsley thus writes : '' When 
Abraham's confidential slave was sent to choose a wife 
for his master's eldest son, he found the lady, designed 
by Providence to be joined in marriage to so great a 
man as Isaac, in the laborious office of drawing water 



for her father's cattle ; and the slave of Abraham, that 
came upon this happy errand, was received by the 
parents of the bride with all the respect and hospitality 
with which they could have received his master." These 
examples shew that the patriarch's servants were in his 
very highest confidence, entrusted with arms, elevated 
to the greatest offices, and even treated like children. 
One of them, Hagar, an Egyptian bondwoman, given 
by Pharaoh, became his wife ; and her child, Ishmael, 
was a mighty prince, and the father of twelve princes ; 
and an especial blessing was conferred on him and on 
his posterity. The case of Hagar, indeed, was a peculiar 
dispensation, and had an allegorical and spiritual signi- 
fication ; and was, in fact, ordained by God himself. 

Again, as a proof that such a prediction as that about 
Canaan did not include a permission to compel ano- 
ther's servitude without a crime, a similar prophecy is 
recorded in Gen. xxvii. 37, where Isaac said to Esau, 
*' I have made " Jacob '' thy lord • and all his brethren 
have I given to him for servants." But he says (ver. 40) 
also, and which was foretold more than seven hundred 
years before its accomplishment, '' When thou shalt 
have the dominion, thou shalt break his yoke from off 
thy neck." But what was this yoke ? There is no intima- 
tion that Jacob exacted personal service of his brother 
or his posterity. In the journey of the Israelites, Esau's 
descendant, the king of Edom, refused their request of 
a passage through his country ; but they were not 
allowed to resent this, and to fight against the Edomites, 
as they might against the Canaanites in the immediate 
neighbourhood. Num. xx. 21 : " Edom refused to give 
Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel 
turned away from him." 2 Chron. ii. 17, 18, Solomon 
had one hundred and fifty thousand servants (strangers 
in Israel) in the building of the Temple, who bare 
burdens and executed other servile work, superintended 
by three thousand six hundred officers ; and then they 
became servants of servants. (See 1 Kings v. 13 — 16 
and ix. 20 — 22.) In the history of Joseph there is a 
similar prophecy, but no hint of perpetual bondage. 

But, to return to the history of Abraham : where is 



to be found, in all the passages of that patriarch's life^ 
even presumptive evidence that he acquired or assumed 
an absolute property in the persons, or over the liberty 
and possessions of his servants ? Can any inference be 
thence drawn, except that then, as in all times and all 
countries, from the necessary inequality of conditions, 
a large portion of mankind were obliged — as they are 
now — to give their personal services to the powerful and 
wealthy, as an equivalent, agreed upon by both parties, 
for protection and provision for themselves and families ? 
Laban offered Jacob wages, according to the custom of 
the country, and indeed made a contract. Nay, Pha- 
raoh's daughter did the same to the nurse of Moses, 
selected from the enslaved and oppressed Israelites. 
This may remind us of what the prophet said (Jer. 
xxii. 13), ''Woe unto him that useth his neigh- 
bour's service without wages, and giveth him not for 
his work." It is not probable that the children of 
Canaan were in any way subject to their neighbours ; 
though they had warred, and captured Lot and his 
family and property, which Abram re- captured, and re- 
turned to dwell among them in peace j while, at the 
same time, their wickedness was so ripe that, for ex- 
ample, Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed*. Abime- 
lech ^nd Melchizedec were righteous kings 3 the latter, 
priest of the Most High God. Abraham also bought of 
the Canaanites a sepulchre, and wells and lands, whence 
they afterwards expelled him. 

But it is said, that, in addition to foretold bondage. 
Ham and Canaan were individually cursed and enslaved. 
No proof of this is apparent 3 neither is there any re- 
cord of their posterity having suffered punishment for 
more than four hundred years after. The Israelites, 
when in possession of the promised land, were forbidden 
to make peace with the seven nations 3 but were com- 
manded to smite and destroy them. (Deut. vii. 1, et 
seq.) They were to take their land as an inheritance j 



* Abram never warred but in self-defence, and took neither spoil 
nor captives. Abram and Isaac dwelt with Abimelech, and made a 
covenant of peace. 



to leave nothing alive that breathed, lest they should 
learn to do all their abominations 3 signifying that these 
people were slain for their own incorrigible wickedness 
— the land casting them out with loathing — and not for 
the sin of their ancestors 3 according to what is said in 
Ezekiel (xviii. 20), " The son shall not bear the ini- 
quity of the father, neither shall the father bear the 
iniquity of the son ; " and in 2 Kings xiv. 6, '' The 
fathers shall not be put to death for the children, 
nor the children be put to death for their fathers ; but 
every man shall be put to death for his own sin." The 
Amorites were not then to be destroyed, because their 
iniquity was not full (Gen. xv. 16). Of other nations 
far off, not given for an inheritance, the lives of such as 
made peace with them were to be spared, on condition 
of their becoming tributaries and servants (Deut. xx. 
10—18). Farther, in Deut. xxiii. 7, 8, it is said '' Thou 
shalt not abhor an Edomite, for he is thy brother . thou 
shalt not abhor an Egyptian, because thou wast a 
stranger in his land. The children that are begotten 
of them shall enter into the congregation of the Lord 
in their third generation." Now the latter were the 
descendants of Ham, not of Canaan ; but, as attested 
both by sacred and profane history, of Cush and Miz- 
raim, and who peopled Africa long before the Phoenicians 
planted colonies on the coast of Barbary. 

From the above premises it may be inferred, that, as 
a peculiar dispensation to the Israelites, they were com- 
manded, not to enslave, but to exterminate, the seven 
accursed nations of the Canaanites, as condemned cri- 
minals. In Ex. xxiii. 33 it is commanded, '' Tliey shall 
not dwell in thy land." The Israelites were enjoined to 
possess their country ; and having repeatedly disobeyed 
this injunction, and made a number of captives, they 
were forewarned that they would prove as thorns in 
their sides 3 and they themselves were, in fact, con- 
quered and enslaved by the Canaanites (Judges ii. 14). 
They were to make servants of distant nations only 3 
and their children, by a special grant, were to be taken 
as a possession for ever — namely, till the year of Ju- 
bilee, when liberty was to be proclaimed to all the in- 



8 

habitants of the land, without exception. In fact^ the 
year of Jubilee was practically the death-blow to per- 
petual servitude. Thus, though they were to remain 
as an inheritance to the Jewish nation, all were freed 
from their respective masters^ even if born in the house, 
in the fiftieth year. Therefore they who were spared in 
these wars were favoured by the saving of their lives 
to a service of justice and mercy ; the same law of love 
characterizing the Mosaic as the Christian code. The 
children of these nations were thus redeemed from the 
barbarisms and cruelty of the heathen world, and in 
many instances from becoming, as it is emphatically 
said, a sacrifice to devils. The distinction appears to 
have been inconsiderable between a heathen bondman 
and a Hebrew hired servant. " A wise servant," says 
Solomon, '' shall have rule over a son that causeth 
shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among 
the brethren" (Prov. xvii. 2). Nay, the advantage is 
greatly in favour of the bondmen, in their various pri- 
vileges. Bondmen also were, in the third generation, 
entitled to a share in the inheritance. In the days of 
the Gospel, St. Paul also says^ " The heir, as long as 
he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though 
he be lord of all" (Gal. iv. 1). It is also to be espe- 
cially observed, that, though the law enjoined the re- 
storation of all strayed cattle, or other lost goods which 
might be found, it was enacted that any servant who 
escaped from his master should not be delivered up, 
but might choose his own habitation, and dwell where 
he pleased (Deut. xxiii. 15, 16). Likewise, if personally 
injured by his master, as by the loss of an eye or a 
tooth, he was to go free (Ex. xxi. 26, 27). " If a 
stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not 
vex him. But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall 
be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt 
love him as thyself" (Lev. xix. 33, 34). "Ye shall 
have one manner of law, as well for the stranger as for 
one of your own country " (Lev. xxiv. 22). Also, '' He 
that smiteth a man that he die, shall be put to death " — 
one exception only being allowed ; and that was, if the 
injured man continued a day or two, the violence was 



not considered the cause of his death otherwise than as 
man- slaughter. Besides all this, both Abraham and 
the Israelites were commanded to admit their servants 
when proselyted — which must be in one year from their 
entrance into servitude — into the covenant by circum- 
cision. 

But, allowing that the servitude of the Jewish law 
were all which our opponents assert — ^that it might even 
be identified with the modern system of colonial sla- 
very 5 and this is a concession quite enough to satisfy 
objectors — yet we are told that many evil practices — 
such as concubinage, bigamy, polygamy, arbitrary di- 
vorce, ordeal for jealousy, the killing of witches, and 
stoning of rebellious children, the absolute power or 
despotism of kings, masters, husbands, and fathers, all 
of which were sins against the universal law of love — 
were for a time connived at, because of the hardness of 
their hearts (Matt. xix. 8). '' The times of this ignor- 
ance God winked at" (Acts xvii. 30). — ^To this place 
may be referred the plea, that. Divine regulations having 
been given to servitude, therefore slavery is divinely 
sanctioned. But, when the Israelites insisted upon 
having a king, and, as Samuel said, added this sin to 
their other offences ; and though God warned them that 
he would be a tyrant and oppressor 3 yet he reserved to 
himself the nomination, and sent Samuel to anoint him, 
and gave laws for his conduct — all the while disapproving 
of what was indeed essentially rebellion against Himself. 
(1 Sam. viii.) But now, after a more extended and 
spiritual exposition of his will, he condemns every in- 
fringement of the law, even to what reaches to the 
thoughts and intents of the heart. He says to masters, 
'' Give to your servants that which is just and equal " 
(Col. iv. 1) : and this, let it be observed, was an equality 
of right. The Lord Jesus thus condenses, as it were, 
the whole subject, " All things whatsoever ye would 
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them ; for 
this is the Law and the Prophets ; " as Moses had said 
(Lev. xix. 18), '' Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thy- 
self." Jesus Christ came in all senses " to preach de- 
liverance to the captives.... to set at liberty them that 



10 

are bruised." St. James also says, " The hire of 
the labourers, which have reaped down your fields, 
which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth 3 and the 
cries of them which have reaped are entered into the 
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth" (v. 4). A Prophet had 
said before, " Is not this the fast that I have chosen : 
To undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go 
free, and that ye break every yoke ? " (Isai. Iviii. 6.) 
A law was also directly given (Ex. xxi. 16), " He that 
stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his 
hand, he shall surel)^ be put to death." — What human 
statute can confer a right to hold children in slavery ? — 
It has been urged, that there is no express prohibition 
of slavery in the New Testament : neither is there 
against a plurality of wives, except in the case of bishops. 
If then an exception prove a rule, other men are per- 
mitted to have an unlimited number. The conclusion 
is, that slavery in the abstract is found in neither Tes- 
tament 3 and the definition of slavery is this, '' Forced 
service of any kind in perpetuity for another's benefit, 
and not as a lawful punishment for the individual's own 
crimes." 

To the opponent of the above statements it may be 
finally said. It is required of you, as an act of simple 
equity, to prove your affirmation — namely, that man 
may have a right of property in the person of another. 
Then, Who has this right ? When was it acquired ? How 
v/as it acquired ? It is demanded, in pure justice, that a 
slave possessor at this moment sheiio his claim to human 
property. Let him, on the margin of this paper, insert 
the references to his proofs, or, in legal language, the 
abstract of his title. 



EUerton and Henderson, Printers, 
Gough Square, London. 



