Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/tohouseofrepreseOOmass 



HOUSE No. 9. 



eommontpta^ltli of M^^^^f^nmttu. 



To the House of Representatives : 

In compliance with the request of the House of Represen- 
tatives, I transmit to them a copy of all the correspondence 
between •' the Governor, or authorities of the State of Vir- 
ginia," and " the Executive Department " of this Common- 
wealth, " touching the case of George Latimer." As there is 
no pending application or " demand from that State for the ar- 
rest of said Latimer, or any other citizen or inhabitant of this 
State," I perceive no reason for withholding the correspon- 
dence, or any part of it. 

MARCUS MORTON. 

Council Chamber, ) 
January 24, 1843. \ 



2 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

THE STATE OF VIRGINIA 

To the Executive Authority of the State of Massachusetts : 

Whereas it appears by the annexed papers, which are hereby 
certified as authentic, that George Latimer, a man of color, is 
a fugitive from justice in this State, charged with burglary and 
felony, and that he hath fled to the State of Massachusetts : 

Now therefore, I, John M. Gregory, Lieutenant Governor of 
the State of Virginia, acting as Governor, according to the pro- 
visions of the constitution of the said State — have thought 
proper, pursuant to the provisions of the constitution and laws 
of the United States, in such case made and provided, to de- 
mand the surrender of the said George Latimer, to Elias Guy, 
who is hereby appointed the agent to receive and convey him 
to the State of Virginia, there to be dealt with according to 
law. 

Given under my hand as Lieutenant Governor, acting as 
Governor of the State of Virginia, as aforesaid, and under the 
Great Seal of the State, at Richmond, the seventh day of De- 
cember, A. D. eighteen hundred and forty-two, and sixty- 
seventh year of the Commonwealth. 

By the Lieutenant Governor, 

JOHN M. GREGORY. 

William H. Richardson, 

Secretary of Commonwealth, and Keeper of the Seal. 



STATE OF VIRGINIA. 

BOROUGH OF NORFOLK. SC. 



Be it known that on this third day of December, in the year 
eighteen hundred and forty-two, in the said Borough of Nor- 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 3 

folk, personally appeared before me, Miles King, mayor of the 
said borough of Norfolk, James B. Gray, merchant, residing 
therein, and made oath before me on the Holy Bible, that on 
or about the twenty-fourth of September, eighteen hundred 
and forty-two, his store-house on Wide Water street, in the 
said borough, was burglariously and feloniously broken open 
and entered in the night-time, and about twenty dollars in 
cash, and sundry articles of property to him belonging, taken, 
stolen and carried away from said store : — that among the ar- 
ticles so stolen, were some pocket-books and hair-brushes. 
That his said store had been broken open and entered burgla- 
riously and feloniously three other times previous, and since 
the first day of December, eighteen hundred and forty-one : — 
that it was first broken and entered as aforesaid, on or about 
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and forty-two, at 
which time there were taken, stolen and carried away from 
his said store-house, about eighty dollars in money, and vari- 
ous other articles of value belonging to him, amongst which 
were a watch-key and pencil-case of silver, of the value of 
two dollars, and which he recollects seeing in his store in the 
place where they were usually deposited after he had closed 
his store, on the night in which it was so as aforesaid, first 
broken and entered : — that shortly after the burglary and lar- 
ceny committed on or about the twenty-fourth of September, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two, he charged a colored man 
named George Latimer, then held to service and labor with 
him, and owned by him as his slave, with the commission of 
the said last-mentioned burglary and larceny, soon after which 
the said George Latimer absconded, and escaped to the State 
of Massachusetts, and city of Boston, where the afliant be- 
lieves the said George Latimer now is. After his escape the 
affiant searched the room in which said George Latimer slept, 
and there found, in the drawer of a table belonging to said 
George Latimer, two of the pocket-books and one of the hair- 
brushes which had been stolen, when the said store-house was 
so broken and entered, on or about the twenty -fourth of Sep- 
tember, eighteen hundred and forty-tw^o. 

The affiant further stated on his oath as aforesaid, that the 



4 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

said George Latimer was searched in Boston since his escape 
from Virginia, and there were found on his person and taken 
from his possession, the watch-key and silver pencil-case, which 
were stolen from his store-house when it was broken and enter- 
ed as aforesaid, on or about the first day of January, eighteen 
hundred and forty-two. 

And the affiant on his oath states that he does verily believe, 
and doth charge, that the said George Latimer did, in the night- 
time, break open and enter burglariously?- and feloniously, his 
said store-house, on or about the twenty-fourth day of Sep- 
tember, eighteen hundred and forty-two, and steal therefrom 
about twenty dollars in money belonging to said affiant, James 
B. Gray, and various articles of the property of the said affi- 
ant, of the value of about fifteen dollars, and among other 
things, sundry pocket-books and hair-brushes. And that he 
further believes and charges, that the said George Latimer did, 
in the night-time, burglariously and feloniously enter and break 
his store-house aforesaid, on or about the first day of January, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two, and did then and there steal, 
take and carry away from said store-house, about eighty dol- 
lars in money belonging to affiant, and various articles of his 
property of the value of at least ten or twelve dollars, and 
among the property so stolen, was the silver pencil-case and 

watch-key aforesaid. 

JAMES B. GRAY. 

The above affidavit was subscribed and sworn to by said 
James B. Gray, before me, Miles King, mayor of said Borough 
of Norfolk and State of Virginia, at the time and place, and 
verified in the manner stated in the caption of said affidavit. 

In testimony of which, I, Miles King, mayor, aforesaid, 
[Seal.] have subscribed my name and affixed my seal of office 
hereto, the day and year first aforesaid. 

M. KING, Mayor. 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 5 

STATE OF VIRGINIA. 

NORFOLK BOROUGH, tO wit : 

To Elias Guy or any other constable of the borough of Norfolk : 

Whereas, James B. Gray, of the borough of Norfolk aforesaid, 
merchant, hath this day made information and complaint upon 
oath by his affidavit, duly sworn and subscribed before me, 
Miles King, mayor of the said borough of Norfolk, in the State 
of Virginia, that on or about the first day of January, eighteen 
hundred and forty-tAvo, in the night, the store-house of him, 
the said James B. Gray, on Wide Water street, in the borough 
of Norfolk aforesaid, was feloniously and burglariously broken 
open, and about eighty dollars in money and various articles of 
the value of ten or twelve dollars, amongst them a silver pencil- 
case and watch-key of the value of about two dollars, of the 
goods and chattels of him, the said James B. Gray, feloniously 
and burglariously stolen, taken and carried away from thence, 
and that he hath just cause to suspect, and doth suspect and 
verily believe, that George Latimer, a colored man, formerly 
held to service and labor with him, and owned by him as his 
slave, the said felony and burglary did commit : These are, 
therefore, in the name of the Commonwealth, to command and 
require you, that immediately upon sight hereof, you do appre- 
hend the said George Latimer and bring him before me or some 
alderman of this borough, to answer the premises, and to be 
further dealt with according to la,w. 

Given under my hand and seal, this third day of December, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two. 

M. KING, Mayor. [Seal] 

The within-named George Latimer not found, and I am 
informed and have reason to believe, that he has fled to Boston, 
in the State of Massachusetts. 

ELIAS GUY, 

Constable, Borough of Norfolk, Va. 

Norfolk Borough, December 5th, 1842, 



6 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

STATE OF VIRGINIA. 

NORFOLK BOROUGH, tO wit : 

To Elias Guy or any other constable of the borough of Norfolk : 

Whereas James B. Gray, of the borough of Norfolk, aforesaid, 
merchant, hath this day made information and complaint upon 
oath, by his affidavit duly sworn and subscribed before me, 
Miles King, mayor of the said borough of Norfolk in the State 
of Virginia, that on or about the twenty-fourth of September, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two, in the night, the store of him, 
the said James B. Gray, on Wide Water street, in the borough 
of Norfolk, aforesaid, was feloniously and burglariously broken 
open, and about twenty dollars in money and sundry pocket- 
books and hair-brushes, and other articles of the value of about 
fifteen dollars, of the goods and chattels of him, the said James 
B. Gray, feloniously and burglariously stolen, taken, and car- 
ried away from thence, and that he hath just cause to suspect, 
and doth suspect and verily believe, that George Latimer, a 
colored man, formerly held to service and labor with him, and 
owned by him as his slave, the said felony and burglary did 
commit : These are, therefore, in the name of the Common- 
wealth, to command and require you, that immediately upon 
sight hereof, you do apprehend the said George Latimer, and 
bring him before me, or some alderman of this borough, to an- 
swer the premises, and to be further dealt with according to 
law. 

Given under my hand and seal, this third day of December, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two. 

M. KING, Mayor. [Seal.] 

The within-named George Latimer not found, and I am in- 
formed and have reason to believe, that he has fled to Boston, 
in the State of Massachusetts. 

ELIAS GUY, 
Constable, Borough of Norfolk, Va. 
Norfolk Borough, December 5th, 1842. 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 



STATE OF VIRGINIA. 

BOROUGH OF NORFOLK, SC. 



James B. Gray, of the borough of Norfolk, aforesaid, mer- 
chant, this day personally appeared before me. Miles King, 
mayor of the said borough of Norfolk, in the State of Virginia, 
and made oath on the Holy Bible, that George Latimer, charged 
before me on his oath with felony and burglary, in breaking 
open the store-house of him, the said James B. Gray, on Wide 
Water street, in said borough, on or about the first day of Jan- 
uary, eighteen hundred and forty-two, and on or about the 
twenty-fourth day of September, eighteen hundred and forty- 
two, and for whose arrest I issued my two several warrants, 
dated the third day of December, instant, has fled to the State 
of Massachusetts and city of Boston, and that he verily believes 
that the said George Latimer is now at large in the State of 
Massachusetts. 

Given under my hand and seal this fifth day of December, 
eighteen hundred and forty-two. 

M. KING, Mayor. [Seal.] 



The within a true copy. Attest, 

JNO. A. BOLLES, 

Secretary of the Commonwealth. 



CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 



€ommon\otaU^ of M^^^^^timttu. 



Council Chamber, Boston, Dec. 1842. 

To the Honorable J. M. Gregory, 

Lt. Governor of Virginia : 

Sir, — I have received and examined the requisition and doc- 
uments transmitted by you through your agent. You, as the 
executive authority of the Commonwealth of Virginia, demand 
one Latimer, represented to be a fugitive from the justice of 
that State. It is alleged that he broke and entered a building 
called a store-house, in Norfolk, and took therefrom money and 
goods, the property of James B. Gray. The affidavit of Mr. 
Gray is the foundation of the proceeding, and is the only docu- 
ment requiring notice, as it contains all the evidence there is 
of the perpetration of a crime. 

The question to be considered is. Does this paper contain such 
a charge of felony, or other crime, as to impose upon the exec- 
utive authority of Massachusetts the duty to issue a warrant 
for the arrest of Latimer, that he may be transported to Vir- 
ginia to answer for the offence ? 

This must depend upon the provisions of the constitution 
and laws of the United States, which authorize, in certain 
cases, the demand, and require the surrender, of fugitives 
charged with crime. 

The constitution provides, " that a person charged in any 
State with treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee from 
justice, and be found in another State, shall, on demand of the 
executive authority of the State from which he fled, be deliv- 
ered up to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the 
crime." 

The law of Congress upon this subject declares, that when- 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 9 

ever the executive authority of any State in the Union shall 
demand any person as a fugitive from justice, of the executive 
authority of any State to which such person shall have fled, 
and shall, moreover, produce the copy of an indictment found, 
or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any such State, 
charging the person so demanded with having committed trea- 
son, felony, or other crime, certified as authentic by the gov- 
ernor, or chief magistrate of the State from whence the person 
so charged fled, it shall the duty of the executive of the State 
to which such person shall have fled to cause him or her to he 
arrested and secured, 6cc. 

Such is the substance of the provisions made in the consti- 
tution and law for the surrender of fugitives from justice. The 
constitution simply declares that a person charged with trea- 
son, felony, or other crime, shall, upon demand by the execu- 
tive authority, be delivered up. 

The law, in carrying out this provision, declares that the 
demand must be made upon the executive authority, and the 
copy of an indictment found, or an affidavit produced, charg- 
ing the fugitive with having committed treason, felony, or other 
crime. 

The proceeding is not one of ordinary occurrence, where the 
process issues in the ordinary way, and is committed to an offi:- 
cer to be served ; but the application for a surrender is from a 
State to a State, through the executive authority, and an exec- 
utive warrant is indispensable to an arrest. It was evidently 
considered a matter of high import, involving the sovereign 
rights of the States, and demanding such special provision that 
no step should be taken without the assent of the State, through 
its executive authority. The reason for this seems to be appa- 
rent in the fact that it is made the high duty of a State govern- 
ment to watch over the rights and privileges of the citizens, 
and to see that they enjoy the protection and security guaran- 
teed by the laws. This process seeks to deprive persons in the 
enjoyment of these privileges of their liberty, to remove them 
to another jurisdiction, and to place them upon trial. It must 
have been obvious to the makers of the constitution and the 
law, that in a country of such vast dimensions as this, it would 
be no light or trivial matter to be removed from one remote 
2 



10 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

part to another, to be tried among strangers, for alleged offences. 
They must have anticipated, that such a power would be like- 
ly to be perverted and abused ; and to guard against unjust, 
oppressive arrests, and the removal of persons under the protec- 
tion of law upon frivolous and colorable pretences, they con- 
fided the matter to the executives of the States, requiring that 
the process should pass under their scrutiny, and the arrest de- 
pend upon their view of constitutional duty, thus invoking the 
States themselves to watch over the exercise of this power, and 
see that it is kept circumscribed within proper limits. These 
seem to me to have been the prevailing views of those who 
made the constitution and the law, and I infer that the power 
intended to be conferred upon the executive authority of a 
State is not nominal, but substantial — that the issuing of a war- 
rant is not intended to be a mere ministerial act, a peremptory 
duty imposed upon the executive, in the discharge of which he 
can exercise no discretion, but is to depend upon a just inter- 
pretation of the constitution, and the law tending to restrain 
all abuse and perversion of the power. 

The Constitution makes a charge of treason, felony or other 
crime the foundation of the right to make a demand, and of the 
obligation to deliver up a fugitive. The law superadds to the 
Constitution, that the demand must be sustained by the copy 
of an indictment found, or an affidavit made, before a magis- 
trate, charging the person demanded with treason, felony or 
other crime. The case before me rests upon an affidavit, and 
the question is whether the charge of crime is such as to autho- 
rize an arrest. 

An affidavit comes from no responsible authority, but is the 
voluntary act of any person who chooses to make it. It may 
as well be the offspring of base, malevolent, vindictive feelings, 
as of pure and honorable sentiments ; it may as well spring 
from selfish, sinister, or corrupt motives as from a regard for a 
faithful administration of criminal justice. It is usually made 
by a party claiming to be aggrieved, and at the best, is weak 
evidence over which almost necessarily hangs a shade of dis- 
trust. It comes from a source unknown, and without any 
voucher for the respectability or truthful character of the affiant. 
Upon such a document, the executive authority of a state is 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 11 

required to cause a person under the protection of the laws, to 
be arrested, that he may be removed to the state from whence 
the demand comes, to answer to the charge contained in it. 

Taking into view all these circumstances, it is apparent to 
my mind, that such a process is open to great abuse, unless it 
is watched over with scrupulous care. 

What then are the requisites of a charge contained in affidavit 
which authorize an arrest 1 The decision of this question is 
referred by the Constitution and the law to the executive autho- 
rity ; and when I take into view the probable motives which 
induced such a reference to the executive, the rights involved, 
and all the other circumstances which necessarily surround 
this process, I am satisfied that the charge, taken as a whole, 
should be full and clear, defining the crime, and embodying 
such facts, as necessarily raise a decided presumption of guilt ; 
and I consider such facts as part of the charge, neither con- 
tained in one or more affidavits, in regard to which there is 
some variance of practice. 

I cannot persuade myself that an affidavit in which it is 
merely alleged that a crime has been committed, and the affi- 
ant believes, or has reason to believe, that the person demanded, 
perpetrated it, is such a charge as the framers of the Constitu- 
tion and the law anticipated. Such a construction would, in 
my belief, encourage abuses, work out injustice and opjiression, 
and turn a salutary provision of the Constitution into an instru- 
ment of evil instead of good. It is difficult to assign any ade- 
quate motive for referring this matter to the executives of the 
states, if they are disarmed of all discretion, and are the mere 
ministerial agents of any and every affidavit-maker who can 
persuade an easy conscience that any one against whom he is 
moved by hatred, malice, revenge, or any other corrupt motive, 
is guilty of a crime. It appears to me, therefore, that when an 
affidavit does not contain a specification of such a crime as the 
Constitution provides for, and such proofs of probable guilt as, 
unexplained, would produce conviction, it does not contain such 
a charge as the Constitution and law require. 

I am confirmed in this view of the subject from the facts which 
have, from time to time, come to my knowledge, tending to 
prove that the abuses do exist, which seem to have been 



12 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

anticipated when the provisions were made which refer the 
papers in such cases to tlie consideration of the executives of 
the states. 

In the commercial states, for example, the crime of cheating 
by false pretences is often the charge upon which a requisition 
is made, and is peculiarly liable to abuse. I have the best rea- 
son for believing that in many cases the complainants have 
been prompted by no regard for the administration of justice, 
but have sought for an executive warrant, intending to employ 
it as a means of intimidation to compel the payment of debts, and 
when the object has been accomplished, to drop the prosecu- 
tion, if that could be effected. But when this did not succeed, 
and such persons have been brought to trial, they have gene- 
rally been acquitted. I have also been made acquainted with 
an instance in which such a warrant was employed not only 
to compel the payment of a debt under the terrors of a peniten- 
tiary, but to extort a large sum of money under pretence of 
indemnifying the creditors for their trouble and expense, while 
there was scarcely a doubt of the innocence of the accused. 

In many other ways I have had just reason to believe that 
this process has been employed, not in aid of criminal justice, 
but to effect selfish and censurable objects through the fears 
and alarm of the persons arrested. 

From these considerations, I am convinced, that the people 
cannot be protected against an unwarrantable use of the pro- 
cess except by great vigilance, and exacting a charge which 
establishes a case of probable guilt ; nor do I anticipate that 
this will wholly arrest the abuse. 

If the executive may not do this, his power becomes nomi- 
nal, and he and the State are disarmed of all authority to pro- 
tect the citizens against arrests upon frivolous and colorable 
pretences. 

It may be supposed that, inasmuch as the demand must be 
made by the executive authority of a state, that a requisition 
will not issue unless founded upon a sufficient charge of crime ; 
but my observation does not justify such a conclusion ; either 
through precipitancy, or from some other cause, it not unfre- 
quently occurs that they issue greatly deficient both in form 
and substance. 



1843.J HOUSE— No. 9. 13 

Being governed by these views of the Constitution and laws, 
I will now examine the case before me, bringing it to the test 
of these principles. 

The requisition rests on the affidavit of Mr. Gray, which 
contains the charge, including the specification of crime, and 
the evidence which sustains it. He infers the guilt of the 
accused from the facts which he states, and these being the 
essence of the whole matter, I have examined them with some 
attention, to ascertain whether that is a just inference, bring- 
ing the case within the Constitution and the law. 

Mr. Gray, who is described as a merchant, states that on or 
about the 24th day of September, 1842, his storehouse in Nor- 
folk was burglariously and feloniously broken open and entered 
in the night-time, and about $20 in cash, and sundry articles 
of property to him belonging, taken, stolen and carried away ; 
that among the articles were some pocket-books and hair- 
brushes. He then states that the said store had been broken 
open and entered three other times previous, and since the first 
day of December, 1841 ; that it was first broken and entered on 
or about the first day of January, 1842, at which time there 
were taken, stolen and carried away from his said storehouse 
about |80 in money, and various other articles of value to him 
belonging, among which were a watch-key and pencil-case of 
silver, of the value of two dollars, which he recollects seeing 
in his store in the place where they are usually deposited, after 
he had closed his store, on the night in which it \va.s firsthroken 
and entered ; that shortly after the larceny committed on or 
about the 24th of September, 1842, he charged a colored man, 
named George Latimer, then held to service and labor with 
him and owned by him as his slave, with the commission of the 
last-mentioned larceny ; soon after which the said George Lati- 
mer absconded and escaped to the State of Massachusetts and 
city of Boston ; after his escape, he (Gray) searched the room 
in which said George Latimer slept, and there found, in the 
drawer of a table belonging to said George Latimer, two of the 
pocket-books and one of the hair-brushes which had been 
stolen when the storehouse had been broken open on or about 
the 24th of September, 1842 ; that the said George Latimer 



14 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

was searched in Boston, and there were found on his person, 
and taken from his possession, the watch-key and silver pencil- 
case, which were stolen from his storehouse when it was broken 
and entered on or about the first day of January, 1842 ; and 
upon this state of facts Mr. Gray declares on oath, that he verily 
believes and doth charge, that the said George Latimer did 
break and enter his said storehouse on or about the 24th day of 
September, 1842, and steal therefrom about twenty dollars in 
money to him belonging, and various articles of the property of 
the affiant, of the value of about fifteen dollars, and among 
other things sundry pocket-books and hair-brushes ; and that 
he further believes and charges, that the said George Latimer 
did break and enter his said storehouse on or about the first 
day of January, 1842, and did steal and convey away about 
eighty dollars in money belonging to the affiant, and various 
other articles of his property of the value at least of ten or 
twelve dollars, and among the articles so taken was the silver 
pencil-case and watch-key. 

Such is the statement of Mr. Gray in his affidavit, which 
contains the charge, including the specification of the crime 
and the facts adduced to prove the guilt of the accused. He 
infers criminality, and I have examined his statement with 
some attention, to ascertain whether that inference is just, 
and the presumption of guilt so strong as to justify an arrest 
and delivery of the accused. 

The proceedings of Mr. Gray in regard to Latimer have be- 
come matters of notoriety ; and there can be no doubt, from 
events which subsequently occurred, that he returned from Bos- 
ton to Norfolk with feelings greatly irritated with disappoint- 
ment, representing himself to be aggrieved in other ways be- 
sides the loss of his property from his store. Under the impulse 
of a mind thus excited, and in a condition thus unfavorable to a 
calm, unbiassed, dispassionate view of the subject, he made this 
ex parte affidavit. Whether sentiments of indignation or re- 
sentment mingled with the transaction, I shall not presume to 
inquire ; but these circumstances belong to the case and deserve 
consideration, in forming an opinion upon the contents of the 
affidavit. It is at least to be presumed that in such a state of 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 15 

things, the affidavit would make as strong a case of guilt as 
the truth would justify. 

Mr. Gray is a merchant at Norfolk, having, like other trad- 
ers, a stock of goods for sale. Among these it appears he 
had pocket-books, hair-brushes, pencil-cases,^ and watch-keys. 
His store was broken open, and some of these goods, which 
appear to be, as far as I am able to judge, cheap articles, were 
stolen, and he avers his belief that Latimer is guilty of the 
larceny, because he found in his sleeping room two pocket- 
books and a hair-brush, and upon his person a watch-key and 
pencil-case. 

In analyzing this statement, the character of the articles first 
meats consideration. They were all articles of personal con- 
venience, such as almost every person, whatever may be his 
condition, possesses for his own accommodation. They seem 
to be cheap, and such as a person like Latimer might with 
propriety possess for his own use — and the number was no 
greater than the exigencies of any person demands, unless pos- 
sibly two pocket-books might be deemed unnecessary. Next, 
there was no extraordinary circumstance in the disposition of 
them — the pencil-case and key being on his person, and kept 
in the same manner as others dispose of such articles when 
designed for their own convenience. 

The hair-brush and pocket-books were discovered in a table 
drawer in his bed-room, which cannot be esteemed an unusual 
or unsuitable place of deposit, and I may say there does not 
appear to be any attempt at secrecy or concealment, but all the 
circumstances have, at least, the aspect of what is usual and 
customary. 

The mere fact, therefore, that Latimer possessed, and kept, 
in the manner described, so many of such articles, as were ap- 
propriate for his use, unless connected with other circumstan- 
ces, can have little tendency to awaken suspicions of guilt. 

Mr. Gray does go a step further, and expresses his convic- 
tion that the articles discovered are part of the goods stolen. 
This conviction, however, does not appear to spring from any 
known marks of identity upon the articles, by which he was 
able to recognize them, but from the fact that goods for sale 



16 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

were similar. If this is all his knowledge, and it cannot be 
presumed that he has more, it falls far short of identifying ar- 
ticles, which are every where for sale, and often so nearly re- 
sembling each other as to require careful scrutiny to distinguish 
them : all these articles are greatly multiplied after the same 
patterns and- fashions, and are to be found in almost any shop 
for sale. The similarity, therefore, of such articles is as uncer- 
tain proof of identity as the similarity of bank notes or coins. If 
one loses or is robbed of notes or coins of a particular descrip- 
tion, and another has those which are similar, it by no means 
follows, that such a fact raises any presumption of guilt, for 
they may or may not be those which have been lost, and this 
must depend on other evidence. 

Mr. Gray, however, further states, that shortly after the theft 
committed about the 24th of September, he accused Latimer 
of it, and soon afterwards (he does not say how soon,) he ab- 
sconded. 

There does not appear to be any thing remarkable in such 
an act under the circumstances which existed. Latimer was 
charged with theft by his master, the only person to whom he 
had any right to look for protection, and this might well excite 
a degree of alarm which would induce him to flee whether 
guilty or innocent. It appears also, that the brush and pocket- 
books were discovered after his departure ; whether an earlier 
search was made does not appear ; but, as the master had the 
power and the right both to search the person and premises of 
the slave, it seems singular, if such was the fact, that it should 
be delayed till after the flight, and it is no less singular, that 
Latimer, if guilty, should, after he had been accused, place the 
stolen articles where detection, by discovery, would be almost 
inevitable, especially when the property could with great fa- 
cility be concealed or destroyed. 

The facts connected with this discovery, as detailed in the 
affidavit, are so difficult to reconcile with the motives of action 
which govern the guilty, and may be accounted for in so many 
other ways, quite as satisfactorily, that I cannot help thinking 
that the inference drawn by Mr. Gray, inculpating Latimer, 
rests on doubtful premises. 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 17 

It is also to be remembered, that of all the property stolen, 
nothing has been discovered, unless those little articles were 
part of it; and it is somewhat remarkable, if Latimer is gnilty, 
that the discovery should be limited to these, if he kept stolen 
property in such a careless manner. But, without dwelling 
longer upon the affidavit, I will advert to another circumstance 
connected with this felony. 

On the 19th of October last, a complaint for larceny was 
made to the police court of Boston, against Latimer, for steal- 
ing and conveying away goods and money, the property of 
Samuel B. Gray, which theft is alleged to have been committed 
at Boston, on the 20th October. Another complaint was made 
against him, in which the same articles are alleged to be the 
property of James B. Gray, and the larceny is alleged to have 
taken place at Norfolk. While these complaints appear to me 
to be designed to cover the same felony described in the affida- 
vits, they vary from it in some particulars, which are material, 
among which I do not mean to include the allegation that the 
goods were taken at Boston. The only point of view in which 
these complaints have a bearing, rests on the belief that the 
information upon which they are made must have been derived 
from Mr. Gray. If such is the fact, he may be able to har- 
monize them with the affidavit, by rendering a satisfactory ac- 
count of the apparent discrepancies. I have now drawn your 
attention, at greater length than I proposed in the outset, to the 
contents of the affidavit and the facts connected with it, and 
you have already anticipated my opinion, that the charge is 
not such as to authorize the arrest and surrender of Latimer. 
The principle involved is one of great interest to the citizens of 
all the States ; for whatever rule is applied to the humble indi- 
vidual demanded, should be the rule in all cases ; and the 
measure of protection meted out to him, should be the limit of 
right in others. In commenting upon this case, I beg you to 
understand that it is no part of my purpose to question the in- 
tegrity of purpose, or the purity of the councils of any State, 
or to impugn the character of any individual, but to speak of 
facts and occurrences without reference to motives. The ten- 
dency has been so strong to multiply these demands, and they 
3 



18 ' CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 

come in such questionable forms, that I have felt it to be my 
duty, in repeated instances, to decline compliance — believing 
that it was never the design of the Constitution to subject the 
people to this process for trivial offences, or upon demands 
which contain no charge raising a presumption of guilt. 1 am 
persuaded that nothing short of this can protect them against 
oppressive arrests. 

I have the honor to be, 

Your Excellency's most obt. serv't, 

J. DAVIS. 



A true copy. Attest. 



JNO. A. BOLLES, 
Secretary of the Commonwealth. 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 19 



To the Justices of our Police Court of the city of Boston, 
within and for our county of Suffolk. Elbridge G. Austin, 
of said Boston, Esquire, in behalf of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, on oath informs said justices, that within 
three weeks last past, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and forty-two, at the city of Boston, in the 
county of Suffolk, the following goods, to wit : 

36 dollars in halves and quarters and half dimes, . $36 

A quantity of goods taken from glass-case, to wit : 
Pencil-cases, hair-brushes, pocket-books, . . 10 

A quantity of groceries, consisting of coffee, sugar 

and liquor, ...... 25 

1 silver watch, ..... 15 

In cents, ...... 15 

Drawer and money, ..... 11 

Of the value of one hundred and twelve dollars and cents 
of the goods and chattels of Samuel B. Gray, and in his pos- 
session then and there being, were feloniously stolen, taken and 
carried away, against the peace of said Commonwealth, and 
the form of the statute in such case made and provided. And 
the said Austin has probable cause to believe, and does believe, 
that George Latimore, otherwise called Albert Nason, of said 
Boston, laborer, did steal and carry away the goods aforesaid. 

E. G. AUSTIN. 

Suffolk, to wit : 

Received, and sworn to the nineteenth day of October, in the 
year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and forty-two. 

Before said court, 

THOS. POWER, Clerk. 



20 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. 



SUFFOLK, to wit: 

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS. 

[L. S.] To the Sheriff of our county of St ff oik, his deptities, 
the cotistables and police officers of our city of 
Boston, 

Greeting : We command you and each of yon, upon sight 
hereof, to take and bring before our pohce court of the city of 
Boston, within and for the county of Suffolk, the body of George 
Latimore, otherwise called Albert Nason, of Boston, aforesaid, 
laborer, if to be found within your precinct, to answer to the 
Commonwealth on the complaint of Elbridge G. Austin, of said 
Boston, Esquire, this day made on oath before our said court, 
for larceny, of goods valued at $112, as set forth in the com- 
plaint aforesaid, against the peace of said Commonwealth and 
the form o'f the statute, in such case made and provided. 

Hereof fail not at your peril. 

Witness, William Simmons, esquire, at Boston, this nine- 
teenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
eight hundred and forty-two. 

THOS. POWER, Clerk. 

Suffolk, ss. Boston, October 19, 1842. 

By virtue of the within precept, I arrested the within-named 
defendant, and committed him to jail, and now. this 20th day 
of October, I have not brought him before the court, having 
been summoned to appear before the justices of the supreme 
judicial court, on a writ of habeas corpus, to show cause why 
I have the above-named defendant in my custody. 

JONAS STRATTON, Constable. 
Dismissed on motion of complainant, October 20th. 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 9. 21 



To the Justices of the Pohce Court of the city of Boston, with- 
in and for the county of Suffolk, Elbridge G. Austin. Esquire, 
of the city of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, in behalf of 
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, on oath complains, 

That George Lalimore, otherwise called Albert Nason, of the 
city of Boston, in county of Sufiblk, laborer, within three 
weeks last past, at Norfolk, in the State of Virginia, did feloni- 
ously steal and carry away from one James B. Gray, the pro- 
perty of said Gray, the following goods, to wit : 

Silver coin, valued at ...... ^36 

Pencil-cases, hair-brushes and pocket-books, valued at 10 
Coffee, sugar and liquor . . . . . .25 

Silver watch ........ 15 

Copper coin 15 

Drawer and money . . . . . . .11 



$112 
All of the value of one hundred and twelve dollars, and that 
said Latimore is now a fugitive from justice from said State of 
Virginia, and is now in Boston, against the peace of said Com- 
monwealth, and the form of the statute in such case made and 
provided. 

E. G. AUSTIN. 

Suffolk, to wit : 

Taken and sworn to this twentieth day of October, in the 
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-two. 
Before said court, 

THOS. POWER, Clerk. 



22 CASE OF GEORGE LATIMER. [Jan. '43.] 



Suffolk, to wit : 

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS. 

[L. S.] To the Sheriff of our county of Suffolk, his deputies, 
the constables and police officers of our city of 
Boston, 

Greeting : We command you and each of you, upon sight 
hereof, to take and bring before our police court, of the city of 
Boston, within and for the county of Suffolk, the body of 
George Latimore, otherwise called Albert Nason of Boston, afore- 
said, laborer, if to be found within your precinct, to answer to 
the Commonwealth, on the complaint of Elbridge G. Austin, of 
said Boston, Esquire, this day made on oath before our said court, 
for larceny in the State of Virginia, of property valued at 
$112, and being a fugitive from justice, is now in said Boston, 
against the peace of said Commonwealth, and the form of the 
statute in such case made and provided. Hereof fail not, at 
your peril. 

Witness : William Simmons, Esquire, at Boston, this twen- 
tieth day of October, in the year of our Lord, one thousand 
eight hundred and forty-two. 

Clerk. 

Return signed by Jonas Stratton, of defendant to complain- 
ant, Oct. 20. 

Discharged, on motion of complainant, Oct. 31. 

A true copy. Attest, 

JNO. A. BOLLES, 

Secretary of the Commonwealth. 



