Digitized by tine Internet Arcinive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportofcommissi1837mass 



* OF THE 



COMMISSIONERS 



APPOINTED TO CONSIDER AND REPORT UPON THE 



PRACTICABILITY AND EXPEDIENCY 



OF REDUCING TO A 



WRITTEN AND SYSTEMATIC CODE 



^Tommon Halu of JMa^satf|usrtts> 



OR ANY PART THEREOF. 



MADE TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR, 
JANUARY, 1837. 



DUTTON AND WENTWORTH, STATE PRINTERS. 



1837. 



T 



The three leading questions presented for the consid- 
eration of the Commissioners are : 

1. The practicability of reducing to a written and sys- 
tematic code the common law of Massachusetts, or any 
part thereof. 

2. The expediency of such a reduction, if practicable. 

3. The plan or plans, by which the same can be best 
accomplished, if expedient. 

Before proceeding to a direct examination of these 
questions, it seems proper to make some preliminary re- 
marks, which may serve to explain the exact state of 
these questions, and to guard against any erroneous infer- 
ences, as to the nature and limits of the inquiries, which 
they involve. 

When our ancestors first emigrated to this country, 
then a wilderness, inhabited only by the Indians, who 
possessed no regular government or administration of 
laws, they brought with them the common law of the 
mother country (England), so far, as from its nature and 
objects, it then was or might be applicable to their situa- 
tion, as colonists, distant from and possessing institutions, 
and political arrangements varying from those of the pa- 
rent country. It is obvious, that they could not bring 
with them the whole body of the English law then in 
force ; for much of it must have been wholly inapplicable 



to their situation, and some of it was inconsistent with 
their policy and prosperity as colonies. Thus, for exam- 
ple, many of the feudal tenures, then in force in England, 
were never known here, all tenures of land here being 
from the beginning in free and common socage. So, the 
whole common law, applicable to the ecclesiastical estab- 
lishment of England, never had an existence here, for a 
similar reason. 

Nor was this an artificial principle assumed for the oc- 
casion to govern the colonies. It was a part of the gen- 
eral law of the land, at the time of the emigration of our 
ancestors, that all new settlements made by Englishmen 
in desert and uncultivated regions were to be governed 
by the law of England, subject to the qualifications al- 
ready stated. It was also a principle, fully recognized in 
the charters granted to the colonies, either in direct terms, 
or by necessary implication. In most, if not in all of 
them, there will be found an express declaration, that no 
laws shall be made repugnant to those of England, (or 
some equivalent phrase,) but as near as may conveniently 
be, their laws shall be consonant with and conformable to 
those of England. There is also to be found in all the 
charters, except that of Pennsylvania, (where it was 
probably omitted by mistake or accident) an express 
clause, declaring, that all English subjects and their chil- 
dren, inhabiting in the colonies, shall be deemed natu- 
ral born subjects, and shall enjoy all the privileges and 
immunities thereof. This was specially true in relation 
to the colony of Massachusetts, whose successive charters 
expressly recognize these privileges and immunities, as 
the right of all subjects and their children inhabiting 
therein, and authorize the enactment of laws not repug- 
nant or contrary to the laws of England. 



The common law, thus introduced into the colonies, 
was not, in a strict sense, the common law in its original 
form, but as it was then existing in England, modified, 
amended, and ameliorated by statutes ; and it was claim- 
ed as the birth-right and inheritance of all the colonists. 
The Revolutionary Congress of 1774, accordingly, unan- 
imously resolved, " that the respective colonies are en- 
titled to the common law of England, and more espe- 
cially to the great and inestimable privilege of being 
tried by their peers, in the vicinage, according to the 
course [of that law ;" and " that they were entitled to 
the benefit of such of the English statutes, as existed at 
the time of their colonization, and which they have by 
experience respectively found to be applicable to their 
several local circumstances.'' 

But notwithstanding this general adoption of the com- 
mon law of England, it is obvious, that the qualifications 
annexed to it must have given rise to many very perplex- 
ing doubts and difficulties. What portions of the com- 
mon law were applicable to the situation of the colonies, 
was an inquiry perpetually presented in the course of fo- 
rensic discussions in former times. And though by the 
gradual operation of judicial decisions, and the positive 
enactments of the Colonial, Provincial and State Legisla- 
tures, the field of controversy has been greatly narrowed ; 
yet there still remain some topics of debate, upon which 
it would not be easy to affirm, whether the common law 
of England had been adopted here or not. Nor has the 
provision of the constitution of this Commonwealth of 
1780, that " the laws, which have heretofore been adopt- 
ed, used and approved in the Province, Colony or State of 
Massachusetts Bay, and usually practised on in the courts 
of law, shall stilt remain and be in full force until alter- 



ed or repealed by the Legislature ; such parts only ex- 
cepted as are repugnant to the rights and liberties con- 
tained in this constitution," materially changed the 
grounds of difficulty and controversy ; for the inquiry 
must still be made, what are the laws, which have been 
so adopted, used and approved, and usually practised on 
in our courts of law. 

Besides the common law of England, there are to be 
found in Massachusetts some few local usages and princi- 
ples, which properly constitute a part of our common law, 
though unknown to that of England. One of the most 
striking instances of this sort is the capacity of a mar- 
ried woman to dispose of her real property by a deed 
with the consent of her husband ; whereas, by the com- 
mon law of England, it can be done only by a peculiar 
process called a fine or a common recovery. 

The common law of Massachusetts, then, properly em- 
braces, in the first place, that portion of the common law 
of England, (as modified and ameliorated by English stat- 
utes,) which was in force at the time of the emigration of 
our ancestors, and was applicable to the situation of the 
colony, and has since been recognised and acted upon, dur- 
ing the successive progresses of our Colonial, Provincial 
and State Governments, with this additional qualification, 
that it has not been altered, repealed or modified by any 
of our own subsequent legislation now in force. In the 
next place, it embraces those local usages and principles, 
which have the authority of law, but which are not found- 
ed upon any local statutes. The latter, indeed, are so 
few, and comparatively, in a general sense, so unimpor- 
tant, that they may, for all our present purposes, be passed 
over without farther observation or notice. 

The next inquiry is, what is the true nature or char- 



8 

acter of the common law, so recognized and established, 
and where are its doctrines and principles to be found. 
In relation to the former part of the inquiry, it may be 
generally stated, that the common law consists of positive 
rules and remedies, of general usages and customs, and 
of elementary principles, and the developments or appli- 
cations of them, which cannot now be distinctly traced 
back to any statutory enactments, but which rest for 
their authority upon the common recognition, consent and 
use of the State itself. Some of these rules, usages and 
principles are of such high antiquity, that the time cannot 
be assigned, when they had not an existence and use. 
Others of them are of a comparatively modern growth, 
having been developed with the gradual progress of so- 
ciety ; and others, again, can hardly be said to have had 
a visible and known existence until our own day. Thus, 
for example, many of the rights and remedies, which 
ascertain and govern the titles to real estate, are of imme- 
morial antiquity. On the other hand, the law of com- 
mercial contracts, and especially the law of insurance, of 
shipping, of bills of exchange, and of promissory notes has 
almost entirely grown up since the time (173G) when 
Lord Mansfield was elevated to the bench. And again, 
the law of aquatic rights and water courses, and the law 
of corporations can scarcely be said to have assumed a 
scientific form until our day. 

In truth, the common law is not in its nature and char- 
acter an absolutely fixed, inflexible system, like the statute 
law, providing only for cases of a determinate form, which 
fall within the letter of the language, in which a particular 
doctrine or legal proposition is expressed. It is rather a 
system of elementary principles and of general juridical 
truths, which are continually expanding with the progress 



of society, and adapting themselves to the gradual changes 
of trade, and commerce, and the mechanic arts, and the 
exigencies and usages of the country, There are certain 
fundamental maxims in it, which are never departed from ; 
there are others again, Vi'hich, though true in a general 
sense, are at the same time susceptible of modifications 
and exceptions, to prevent them from doing manifest 
wrong and injury. 

When a case, not affected by any statute, arises in any 
of our courts of justice, and the facts are established, the 
first question is, whether there is any clear and unequivo- 
cal principle of the common law, which directly and imme- 
diately governs it, and fixes the rights of the parties. If 
there be no such principle, the next question is, whether 
there is any principle of the common law, which, by anal- 
ogy, or parity of reasoning, ought to govern it. If neither 
of these sources furnishes a positive solution of the con- 
troversy, resort is next had (as in a case confessedly new) 
to the principles of natural justice, which constitute the 
basis of much of the common law ; and if these principles 
can be ascertained to apply in a full and determinate 
manner to all the circumstances, they are adopted, and 
decide the rights of the parties. If all these sources fail, 
the case is treated as remediless at the common law, and 
the only relief, which remains, is by some new Legislation, 
by statute, to operate upon future cases of the like 
nature. 

These remarks may be illustrated, by referring to some 
of the most familiar cases, which occur in the every day 
business of life. In the common case of work and labor, 
done for any person, or goods sold and delivered to him, 
the common law implies an obligation or duty in the per- 
son, for whose benefit, and at whose request it is done, to 
2 



10 

pay the amount of the price of the goods, or the value of 
the work and labor. Now, there is no statute from which 
this obligation or duty is derived. It is simply a dictate 
of natural justice, and from that source was adopted into 
the common law. The mods, by which this obligation or 
duty was enforced in the ancent common law, was by the 
remedy called an action of debt. But this remedy was 
in some respects, and under some circumstances, liable to 
embarrassments and technical objections. About three 
hundred years ago, it occurred to some acute lawyers, that 
another remedy, which would avoid these embarrassments 
and objections, might be applied. Accordingly, an action 
of trespass on the case, now well known bj'the name of an 
action of indebitatus assumpsit, was brought in the courts 
of Westminster Hall, to recover the amount of the debt. 
It was then very gravely debated, whether such an action 
would lie, and finally (after great diversity of opinion) 
it was settled in favor of the action. The principal 
ground of the decision was from the analogy to other 
well known forms of actions on the case, and the under- 
taking or ])r(jmise of the debtor, implied by law, to pay 
the debt, the breach of which undertaking or promise 
was a wrong to the other party, for which he was entitled 
to recover, not technically the debt, but damages to the 
full amount of the debt. And this is now the common 
mode, by which debts of this sort are usually sued for 
and recovered. 

Again : When a man borrows money of another to be 
repaid to the lender, the common law, upon principles of 
natural justice, holds him liable to repay it, upon his ex- 
press or implied agreement to that eifect. But cases 
occurred, in which money in the hands of one person, in 
justice and equity, belonged to another; but it had not 



11 

been borrowed, nor had the possessor promised to pay it 
over. On the contrary, he resisted the claim. The 
question then arose, whether in such a case the money 
was recoverable. And the courts of law, at a compara- 
tively recent period, held, that an action would lie for the 
recovery of it, and that the proper action was indebitatus 
assumpsit, for money had and received to the use of the 
party entitled. Here, again, the courts acted upon prin- 
ciples of natural justice, and founded themselves, both as 
to the right and the remedy to recover, upon the analo- 
gies of the law. They first inferred, from the principles 
of natural justice and the analogies of the law, an im- 
plied undertaking or promise to pay over the money, 
because in conscience and duty the hoh'er was bound so 
to do; and next they applied the remedy by analogy to 
other cases where there was an express promise of a 
similar nature. 

Again : Until (he reign of Queen Anne, promissory notes 
although payable to bearer or order were held not to be 
negotiable ; so that no person but the payee could main- 
tain an action for the money due on the same. The 
ground of this decision was, that debts, technically called 
choses in action, are not assignable at the common law, 
a doctrine, which can be traced back to its early rudiments. 
This, therefore, was a case, where, though the principles 
of natural justice might apply to create an obligation, 
the positive rules of the common law forbade it Hence 
the interposition of the Legislature became indispensa- 
ble. Nay, even the payee himself could not, according 
to the rules of the common law, maintain an action di- 
rectly on the instrument ; but he could only use it as evi- 
dence of a debt in an action properly framed upon the con- 
sideration, for which it was given. When the Statute of 



12 

3d and 4th Anne, chapter 9, made such promissory notes 
negotiable, it was found to be so convenient, that it was 
generally, though not universally, nor without some ex- 
ceptions and modifications, introduced either by statute 
or usage into the Colonies. In Massachusetts it was 
adopted by usage, and acted upon down to our day, 
without any other sanction than judicial recognition. 

As soon as the negotiability of promissory notes was 
thus established, it gave rise to innumerable questions, as 
to the rights and responsibilities of the parties, which 
w^ere either confessedly new, or but faintly indicated by 
antecedent principles. What were the nature and ex- 
tent of the obligation of an indorser ; what were the du- 
ties of the indorsee ; when demand was to be made of pay- 
ment of the maker ; what notice was to be given, and how 
notice was to be given, by the holder to the indorser; these, 
and very many questions of a like nature, were necessarily 
to be resolved. And so complicated and so various are the 
circumstances, which may attend cases of this nature, 
that notwithstanding the long course of decisions, which 
have in a great measure ascertained and qualified the 
rights and responsibilities of the parties, there yet re- 
mains a wide field for future discussions, growing out of 
the new and ever varying courses of business. The 
principles of natural justice have furnished many rules 
for the exposition of the contract and obligations of the 
parties ; the analogies of the common law have furnish- 
ed others ; the usages of the mercantile world have fur- 
nished others ; and then again there have been anomalies, 
which could not be brought within the range of any well 
defined principles, and therefore have been left to be reg- 
ulated by legislative enactments. In this branch of the 
law, in an especial manner, will be found a striking illustra- 



13 

tion of the remark of an eminent judge, that the com- 
mon law is a system of principles, which expands with 
the exigencies of society. 

With these few preliminary observations, which seemed 
necessary to a just understanding of the subject, the Com- 
missioners will now proceed to the direct consideration 
of the inquiries presented by their commission. 

1. The first is, as has been already stated, the prac- 
ticability of reducing to a written and systematic Code the 
common law of Massachusetts, or of any part thereof. 

This inquiry involves, or at least may involve, two 
very distinct and widely different propositions, according 
to the sense, in which we interpret the terms, " the com- 
mon law of Massachusetts." If by those terms is to be 
intended not only all the general principles of that law, 
but all the diversities, ramifications, expansions, excep- 
tions and qualifications of those principles, as they ought 
to be applied, not only to the past and present, but, to all 
future combinations of circumstances in the business of 
human life, it may require one answer. If, on the other 
hand, those terms are to be understood in a more restrict- 
ed sense, as importing only the reduction to a positive 
code of those general principles, and of the expansions, 
exceptions, qualifications and minor deductions, which 
have already, by judicial decisions or otherwise, been 
engrafted on them, and are now capable of a distinct 
enunciation, then a very different answer might be given. 
In the former sense, the Commissioners have no doubt, 
that it is not practicable to reduce the common law of 
Massachusetts to a written Code ; in the latter sense, 
they have no doubt, that it is so practicable; — and the 
expediency of doing it will come under review in a sub- 
sequent part of this Report. 



14 

As there appear to the Commissioners to be abroad 
in the community some erroneous notions on this subject, 
under both of the preceding aspects, they beg leave re- 
spectfully to suggest the reasoning, by which they have 
arrived at the conclusions above stated. It is not an 
uncommon opinion, that all law is capable of being 
reduced to a specific form, which shall apply with equal 
clearness and certainty to the solution of all cases, pa^st, 
present and future. In short, it is frequently supposed 
and frequently asserted, that a Code may be compiled of 
all the law, which is to regulate the rights and titles, 
the property, the business and the contracts of a nation, so 
definite, full and exact, that it shall furnish a complete 
guide, not only for the decisions of courts of justice, but 
for intelligent citizens throughout the country, in all 
cases, and shall supersede, if not the necessity of new 
legislation, at least the necessity of new rules, and the 
modification of old rules by courts of justice, to reach 
the exigencies of every variety of controversy. Why, it 
is often asked, cannot the law of a country be reduced 
to a positive form ? If it is law, it must be known, or 
it ought to be known, so that every citizen may govern 
his conduct accordingly. If it is known to a few, why 
may it not be made known in a positive form to all per- 
sons? If not fully known to any persons, ought a free 
nation to remain subject to rules, of the nature and extent 
of which they are ignorant, and to allow their rights to 
be decided by doctrines now promulgated for the first 
time ? Questions of this sort are often put, and sug- 
gestions of this character are often made. They wear 
an air of plausibility, and therefore should be deliberately 
examined, and the errors, to which they may lead, should 
be corrected by expounding the sources of them. It is 



15 

very certain, that no Nation, whose legal institutions are 
known to us, ever had a Code of the nature above sup- 
posed, viz, one, which was comprehensive enough to 
embrace all the doctrines and details required for the 
private concerns and business of its whole population. 
That it never has been done, however, furnishes no abso- 
lute proof, that it cannot be done. But at the same time, 
since it is well known, that many partial codes or collec- 
tions of laws have been made, the fair presumption is, 
that it has been deemed impracticable or unwise to at- 
tempt more. 

In proportion as nations advance in civilization and 
commerce, the business of the people, and the rights and 
modifications of property, become necessarily more com- 
plicated, and difficult, and various in their relations and 
circumstances. The principles of law, which might suf- 
fice for the ordinary transactions of one age, would be 
wholly insufficient to answer the exigencies of the next 
age. Of the innumerable questions, which arise in any 
one age, and admit of forensic controversy and doubt, 
probably not one in a hundred, perhaps it would be more 
correct to say, not one in a thousand, ever comes before a 
court of justice to be there finally settled by adjudication. 
Many arc settled by compromise ; many by arbitration, 
or the intervention of friends ; many are neglected or 
abandoned, from their comparatively slight importance, 
or the poverty of the claimants, or their ignorance of or 
indifference to their rights, or from other causes tending 
10 suppress litigation. Hence it is, that the basis of the 
actual administration of justice in every country must 
comprehend principles of far more extensive reach, than 
those, which become the subjects of direct adjudication in 
courts of justice, and be capable of a progressive adaptation 



16 

to new cases as they arise, or the most manifold public 
and private mischiefs must pervade the whole commu- 
nity. 

It may be asked, why may not a nation require all the 
laws, which are to govern it, to be clearly made known 
and promulgated, before they are acted upon? Certainly 
it is competent for a nation so to act. It may declare, 
that the administration of justice shall be applied only to 
rights and titles and claims, which have been previously 
ascertained by the terms of express laws, leaving nothing 
to the judgment of courts of justice, beyond the direct ap- 
plication of the text to the very cases thus ascertained. 
But what would be the consequence of such a course of 
legislation? It would be, that every case of wrong, and 
injustice and oppression, not thus foreseen and provided 
for, would be wholly remediless. And the mass of such 
cases would be perpetually accumulating, since positive 
legislation, however rapid and constant, can never keep up 
in any just proportion with the actual permutations and 
combinations of the business of an active, enterprising 
and industrious people. Suppose, for example, the Leg- 
islature of Massachusetts should declare, that there should 
be no other laws in force except what are contained in 
the Revised Statutes ; it is obvious, that the whole busi- 
ness of life must stop in this State ; for that Code does 
not provide for one case in a thousand, perhaps not for 
one in a hundred thousand, which is of daily occurrence 
and activity. 

It is obviously impossible to make a positive Code, 
which shall be adequate to the business and rights and 
modifications of property in any one single age, unless 
the Legislature can foresee every possible as well as every 
probable combination of circumstances applicable to eve- 



17 

ry subject matter in that age. Such a degree of wisdom 
and foresight belongs not to any human beings. If it were 
possible to foresee and provide for all such exigencies of 
a single age, having a determinate course of business, and 
institutions, no one would be rash enough to assert, that 
it was possible to foresee and provide for the exigencies, 
rights, duties and business of the same nation throughout 
all time. A Code, therefore, however full, would be per- 
petually growing more and more defective, unless resort 
was had to new legislation ; and such legislation, to be 
either wise or effective, must allow a great number of ca- 
ses of the same sort to arise under various aspects, before 
the proper remedy or principle, which ought to be gener- 
ally applied, could be clearly perceived, or safely adopted. 
In short, unless it were possible to compel all men to act 
at all times in one way, and to prevent the occurrence 
of any new combinations of circumstances, (a condition 
morally and physically impossible,) and unless it were al- 
so possible for a Legislature to foresee and provide for all 
the cases, that had arisen, or could arise, (a condition 
equally impossible,) there is no pretence to say, that any 
written Code could embrace all the provisions fitted for an 
active, comm.ercial, and free pec ole, advancing in civiliza- 
tion, wealth, and industry. And if any Code could be 
framed, which should aspire to provide in detail for the 
common run of circumstances, it vould be found in prac- 
tice to be not only materially defective, but so voluminous 
in its precepts, that a whole life would be required to 
master all its provisions, and more than a whole life to 
accumulate the materials fit for its composition. 

It has been already stated, that perhaps not one case 
in a hundred, which admits of doubt o; controversy, ever 
comes before a court of justice for decision. Of the re- 
3 



18 

ported cases, which were decided in England before the 
middle of the last century, consisting principally of cases 
at the common law, an abridgment has been published in 
twenty-four folio volumes ; and, after all, it is a very un- 
satisfactory and incomplete abridgment of those cases, 
probably not covering one half of the minute doctrines 
asserted and acted on in them. An abridgment of the 
reported cases at the common law, from that time down 
to the present, has also been published in fifteen volumes 
(royal octavo), which is equally imperfect and unsatisfac- 
tory. These voluminous works are but specimens of 
what a Code must be, which should attempt to enumerate 
in detail the doctrines of the common law, which have 
been in dispute in courts of justice, and have been estab- 
lished by decisions. If the enumeration of these is so 
voluminous, we may readily see, what space would be 
required for those, which are known and not disputed, and 
for those, which are unknown, or uncertain in their appli- 
cation, and whose circumstances have never been dis- 
cussed in tribunals of justice.. A Code, which should em- 
brace the doctrines of all tne reported cases of the com- 
mon law, from the most inportant to the most minute, 
with accuracy and clear; ^ss, would of itself be exceed- 
ingly voluminous, and re juire many years, if not an age, 
for its preparation, and t.ien would be mastered only by 
those, who could afford ,o devote a large portion of their 
lives to the study and e^qjosition of it. For the purposes 
of common life, it woald be like a sealed book, which 
would neither enlighten nor aid practical inquirers, and 
perhaps by a partial examination might mislead them. 
But if a Code shou'd attempt more, and be framed so as 
to comprehend, in ill their details, all the known and un- 
disputed doctrines of the common law, which on that 



19 

account are only incidentally touched or alluded to in 
reported cases, it would probably be doubled in its bulk 
and extent. If it should attempt to go farther, and pro- 
vide for the application of those doctrines to all other 
cases, which had arisen and were known, or which could 
be foreseen by the exercise of the most profound and va- 
ried wisdom and experience of the Commonwealth, it 
would not only be found upon its first promulgation ex- 
ceedingly defective, but it would be of such vast size and 
accumulated materials, that it would serve to perplex 
rather than to clear away difficulties, and would import 
into the administration of justice more mischiefs and 
doubts, and stimulants to litigation, than it could hope to 
remedy. There would be this additional evil, that as the 
rules established for future cases would necessarily be 
founded upon general theories, and would not, as now, be 
adopted upon full argument, and modified from time to 
time, to meet the circumstances of each particular case, 
there would be infinite danger, that they would in prac- 
tice be found to work ill, or to defeat the main objects, 
which the legislation was intended to accomplish. 

The Civil Code and the commercial Code of France are 
probably as perfect specimens of legislation as ever have 
been, or ever can be produced, having been prepared with 
great care and diligence, by the most learned jurists of 
France, after repeated revisions, and with the assistance 
of the ablest and most experienced judges of the tribunals 
of all the departments of that extensive kingdom. Yet 
it is well known, that a great variety of questions, as to 
the true construction of the text, and a still greater 
variety of questions, arising from new and unforeseen 
cases, have been discussed in their judicial tribunals, 
which already occupy many volumes of reports, and must 



20 

constitute a continually augmenting mass of materials, 
alternately for litigation and for legislation. This con- 
sideration furnishes no just objection, when properly 
viewed, to the establishment of codes ; but it serves to 
show the utter impracticability of making any adequate 
provisions for all future cases ; or of devising any forms 
of expression, which shall not be susceptible of some 
diversities of interpretation. Such is the unavoidable im- 
perfection of all human language, and such the short- 
sightedness of the most deliberate efforts of human wis- 
dom ! 

Considerations of this sort, which cannot fail to force 
themselves upon the mind, upon a close survey of the 
subject, have led the Commissioners to the conclusion, 
that it is not possible to establish in any written Code all 
the positive laws and applications of laws, which are ne- 
cessary and proper to regulate the concerns and business 
of any civilized nation, much less of a free nation, pos- 
sessing an extensive commerce, and a great variety of 
manufacturing and agricultural interests, which are con- 
stantly undergoing new modifications, and are susceptible 
of being the subjects of infinitely diversified contracts, and 
rights of property and enjoyment. If it were possible 
to provide such a written Code, the Commissioners are of 
opinion, that the present state of the common law does 
not furnish sufficient materials for the purpose. An in- 
finite number of new rules and doctrines, and modifi- 
cations, limitations and enlargements of old rules and 
doctrines, would be required even for an approximation 
to such a Code. And after all, from what has been already 
suggested, it would be found full of defects, inconven- 
iences and embarrassments, from the impossibility of 
foreseeing many new combiaatious of circumstances, or 



21 

of providing in the most suitable manner for them, if fore- 
seen, without the aid of long experience and thorough 
argument, and a nice discrimination and balancing of op- 
posing reasons. It is upon these grounds, that the Com- 
missioners have ventured to express their opinion, that, in 
the broad sense of the terms already indicated, the com- 
mon law of Massachusetts is not capable of being reduced 
to a written and systematic Code ; and that any attempt 
at so comprehensive an enterprise would be either posi- 
tively mischievous, or inefficacious, or futile. It seems 
to them, that private convenience as well as public policy 
requires, that the common law should be left in its pros- 
pective operations in future (as it has been in the past) 
to be improved, and expanded, and modified to meet the 
exigencies of society, by the gradual application of its 
principles in courts of justice to new cases, assisted from 
time to time, as the occasion may demand, by the enact- 
ments of the Legislature. 

But although in the broad sense of the terms, the 
common law of Massachusetts is not susceptible of being 
reduced to a written and systematic Code, the inquiry is, 
in the opinion of the Commissioners, a very different one, 
whether the whole or parts thereof, in the narrower 
sense above stated, may not be beneficially reduced to 
such a Code. In this last sense, the common law may 
be said to embrace two distinct branches, to wit ; first, 
the well known and ascertained general principles of that 
law ; and secondly, the well known and ascertained ap- 
plications of those general principles to the circumstances 
of particular cases. The former are often denominated 
in the juridical language of Continental Europe emphati- 
cally as law ; the latter as jurisprudence. The former 
are rather recognized than promulgated in our courts of 



justice. The latter constitute the mass of our judicial 
decisions, and can rarely be ascertained with perfect ex- 
actness from any other sources ; though they necessarily 
compose a part of every elementary treatise upon any 
branch of the common law. 

In respect to the general principles of the common 
law of Massachusetts, it may be affirmed, that they are 
not positively incapable of being generally collected 
into a Code. We say generally, because there may still 
be some question, whether particular principles of the 
common law of England constitute a part of the com- 
mon law of Massachusetts. But in relation to a very 
large mass, there is no difficulty whatsoever of this 
nature. These general principles are to be found, for the 
most part, collected in elementary treatises now extant, 
upon the whole or particular branches of the common 
law. They are capable of being stated in the very form 
and language, in which they are there enunciated, as 
they have, from long examinations and critical trials, ac- 
quired a precision and exactness, which approach very 
near to scientific accuracy ; and for all the ordinary uses 
of life, they are sufficiently clear in their interpretations 
and qualifications. To this extent, at least as far as these 
general principles have assumed such a precision and ex- 
actness, they may be embodied in a w^ritten Code, with 
such a systematic arrangement, as the nature of the differ- 
ent subject matters, to which they apply, may require. 

In respect to the details of these general principles in 
their actual application to particular cases, where they 
have necessarily undergone modifications, exceptions and 
qualifications, as they are chiefly, if not exclusively, to be 
gathered from actual adjudications in courts of justice, it 
may also be affirmed, that they are not positively incapa- 



23 

ble, so far at least as reported cases go, of being 
generally reduced to a written Code. We say gen- 
erally, because here also there are, or may be great 
doubts, whether particular doctrines constitute a part of 
our common law ; and because there are to be found 
conflicting decisions upon some points, so that it may 
not be easy to affirm, upon the weight of authority, what 
the true doctrine is ; and because some branches of the 
common law of England have become so nearly obso- 
lete, and so obscure from lapse of time and disuse, that, 
if they constitute a part of our common law, it would be 
very difficult to collect all the true doctrines, and to express 
them in an unexceptionable form. Time here, as every 
where else, has wrought such great changes in rights, 
remedies, institutions, and usages, that it would be al- 
most a hopeless task to suit the ancient forms and the 
ancient language of particular doctrines to the present 
state of things. It is quite a diiferent question, which 
will be presently considered, whether it would be useful 
or expedient, to attempt any codification of all the de- 
tails of these general principles, as they are embodied in 
the decisions, which have been made by courts of justice 
in different ages. 

These considerations naturally conduct us to the sec- 
ond and very important inquiry, as to the expediency 
of reducing the common law of Massachusetts, or any 
part thereof, (in the narrower sense already stated) to a 
written and systematic Code, so far as the same is practi- 
cable. Upon this subject, the Commissioners have em- 
ployed a good deal of deliberation ; and they now pro- 
pose to state the results, to which they have arrived ; to 
state the objections, which have been or may be urged, 
against any system of codification, with the answers 



24 

thereto ; and lastly to state the reasons, on which their 
own results are founded. 

I. The Commissioners are, in the first place, of 
opinion, that it is not expedient to attempt the reduction 
to a Code of the entire body of the common law of Mas- 
sachusetts, either in its general principles or in the de- 
ductions from,or the applications, of those principles, so far 
as thev have been ascertained by judicial decisions, or are 
incontrovertibly established. 

II. The Commissioners are, in the next place, of opin- 
ion that it is expedient to reduce to a Code those princi- 
ples, and details of the common law of Massachusetts 
in civil cases, which are of daily use and familiar application 
to the common business of life, and the present state of 
property and personal rights and contracts, and which 
are now so far ascertained and established, as to admit of 
a scientific form and arrangement, and are capable of 
being announced in distinct and determinate propositions. 
What portions of the common law properly fall under 
this predicament will be in some measure considered here- 
after. 

HI. The Commissioners are, in the next place, of opin- 
ion, that it is expedient to reduce to a Code the common 
law, as to the definition, trial and punishment of crimes, 
and the incidents thereto. 

IV. The Commissioners are, in the next place, of opin- 
ion, that the law of evidence, as applicable both to civil 
and criminal proceedings, should be reduced to a Code. 

And, in order to guard against any objections founded 
upon a misconception of the nature, objects, and effects of 
such a codification, the Commissioners propose to insert 
in such a Code the following fundamental rules for its 
interpretation and application. 



25 

I. The Code is to be interpreted and applied to future 
cases, as a Code of the common law of Massachusetts, 
and not as a Code of mere positive or statute law. It is 
to be deemed an affirmance of what the common law now 
is, and not as containing provisions in derogation of that 
law, and therefore subject to a strict construction. 

II. Consequently, it is to furnish the rules for decis- 
ions in courts of justice, not only in cases directly (ex 
directo) within its terms, but indirectly, and by analogy 
in cases, where, as a part of the common law, it would 
and ought to be applied by courts of justice, in like 
manner. 

III. In all cases not provided for by the Code, or gov- 
erned by the analogies therein contained, the common 
law of Massachusetts, as now existing, is to furnish the 
rules for decision, unless so far as it is repugnant to the 
common law affirmed in the Code, or to the statute law 
of the State. 

Such is the basis of the Code proposed by the Com- 
missioners, and such the principles, by which they propose, 
that those, who shall be called upon to perform the duty 
of codification, should be guided. 

The Commissioners are aware, that there are many 
objections, which have been and may be urged, not only 
against any codification of the common law, in the broad- 
est sense of the terms, but also against any codification 
whatever, even of the limited nature and extent, which 
they have ventured to recommend. These objections 
have been urged not only at home but abroad ; not only 
in countries governed by the common law, but in coun- 
tries governed by the civil law, and by their own cus- 
tomary law ; not only in public debates, but in elaborate 
treatises by jurists of distinguished reputation and ability. 
4 



26 ' 

A proper respect, therefore, for the opinions thus pro- 
mulgated, requires them to take notice of some of the 
most prominent objections, and to submit such answers 
as have occurred to them touching the subject. 

One of the most general objections urged against the 
establishment of a Code is, the utter impossibility of mak- 
ing it perfect, or applicable to all future changes in the 
condition, rights, and property of a nation. It has been 
said, that no system of laws can remain for a great length 
of time unchanged; for the progress, or even the regress 
of civil society, must constantly call for new modifications 
of the existing laws ; and that one of the peculiar excel- 
lences of the common law consists in its adaptation to all 
circumstances, and, in a general sense, to all the exigen- 
cies, which civil society may present. It is not necessary 
to controvert the general truth of this remark. On the 
contrary it may be fully admitted, and yet in no degree 
impair the reasoning in favor of a Code. The fact, that 
no system of human laws can be made so perfect as not 
to require future revisions, modifications, amendments, 
and even partial repeals, in the new changes of society, 
furnishes no just objection to the adoption of some posi- 
tive laws, providing for the ordinary concerns of a nation. 
It would be deemed little short of an absurdity to declare, 
that, because no perfect laws can be made, therefore no 
laws should be made. Even the common law does not 
pretend, in the slightest degree, to be a perfect system. 
On the contrary, it has undergone, and is constantly un- 
dergoing changes, to meet the new exigencies of society ; 
and the aid of the Legislature is constantly invoked to 
cure its defects, and improve its remedial justice. If 
the common law had the theoretical perfection and ex- 
cellence attributed to it in the objection, (which can be 



27 

admitted only with many qualifications and exceptions,) 
still, it is not perceived, how this perfection and excel- 
lence are impaired by putting into a positive text, what 
is supposed, by the objection itself, to be clear and deter- 
minate, and to make it rest, not upon disputable deduc- 
tions, but upon the positive sanctions of the Legislature, 
declaring it to be the common law. In truth, the objec- 
tion, though in its form general, seems principally ad- 
dressed to a case, where a nation should establish a 
particular Code of laws, and abolish all other laws not 
provided for in that Code. In such a case, it may be 
admitted, that the unavoidable imperfections of the Code 
would often produce very great mischief and injustice, 
and require incessant enactments by the Legislature to 
overcome them. In this view the objection has no ap- 
plication to codification, as proposed by the Commission- 
ers ; for every thing not governed by the Code is to be left 
precisely as it now is. Courts of justice are to be at full 
liberty to apply the existing common law to non-enume- 
ated cases, exactly as they now do. And from the mate- 
rials thus furnished by judicial decisions, improvements 
and additions may, from time to time, be engrafted by 
the Legislature on the Code itself. It will thus become, 
what it ought to be, a perpetual index to the known law, 
gradually refining, enlarging and qualifying its doctrines, 
and, at the same time, bringing them together in a con- 
cise and positive form for public use. 

Another objection, which has been urged by distinguish- 
ed jurists of continental Europe, is, that the jurisprudence 
of a country (in their sense of the phrase) is perpetually 
changing its form and character with every succeeding 
age ; and any attempt to give it permanency in its princi- 
ples or its applications must make it inflexible, and unfit 



0( 



for the purposes of social justice. Thus, for example, it 
is asserted, that the customary law of some of the conti- 
nental nations is in a perpetual though gradual state of 
change ; and that this is a state most useful and salu- 
tary to be preserved ; for otherwise the jurisprudence of 
one age would become obligatory upon another, and pre- 
vent the improvements in it, which might be best adapted 
to its prosperity and social advancement. This objection, 
whatever may be its force or value, when applied to the 
state of the customary law, in some of the countries of 
continental Europe, vanishes, when it is attempted to be 
applied to our common law. In America and in Eng- 
land, the common law is not, in the sense of the objec- 
tion, of such a changeable nature. When once a doctrine 
is fully recognized as a part of the common law, it forev- 
er remains a part of the system, until it is altered by the 
Legislature. A doctrine of the common law settled 
three hundred years ago is just as conclusive now in a 
case, Vi^hich falls within it, as it was then. No court of 
justice can disregard it, or dispense with it; and nothing 
short of legislative power can abrogate it. With us the 
notion that courts of justice ought to be at liberty from 
time to time to change established doctrines, to suit their 
own views of convenience or policy, would be treated as 
a most alarming dogma, subversive of some of the best 
rights of a free people, and especially of the right to have 
justice administered upon certain fixed and known princi- 
ples. Our ancestors adopted in its fullest meaning the 
maxim, that it is a wretched servitude, where the law is 
vague and uncertain. Hence it is, that precedents in our 
courts of justice are of very high authority, and, with rare 
exceptions, conclusive as to the principles, which they de- 
cide and establish ; and subsequent judges are not at lib- 



29 

erty to depart from them, when they have once become a 
rule of rights or of property. The whole of the judicial 
institutions in England and America rest upon this doc- 
trine as their only solid foundation. But upon the Conti- 
nent of Europe, or at least in some parts of it, the case 
is very different. The decisions of courts of justice, 
(technically called jurisprudence) go no further than to 
decide the merits of the particular case. They furnish 
no determinate rule for other cases of a like nature. 
Precedents are not of absolute authority, or, in a general 
sense, of any cogent obligation. The doctrines of the 
judges of one age may be, and are disregarded by those 
of another. And it is quite competent for an advocate to 
insist upon principles and reasonings, which are adverse 
to a long train of decisions, and entirely subversive of 
their authority. The objection, therefore, so far as it can 
apply to America and England, is an objection, not to a 
Code, but to the common law itself; for the common law 
has this very inflexibility of character, and permanence of 
doctrine, of which the objection complains. With us in 
Massachusetts, the common law is now just as much of 
general obligation, and of general fixedness in its doc- 
trines, and as binding upon courts of justice, as it would 
be if reduced to a Code, and no more. When new cases 
arise, they are governed (as we have seen) by such anal- 
ogies to those, which have already been decided, or by 
such principles of natural justice, as are properly applica- 
ble to them. When old cases arise, the established doc- 
trines furnish the sole rule, by which they are decided. 

But though this last objection is principally, if not ex- 
clusively, confined to the jurists of continental Europe, 
there is one of a kindred nature, which is sometimes 
pressed by the opponents of codification on both sides of 



30 

the Atlantic It is, that the moment, that the common 
law shall become the text of a positive Code, it will cease 
to be common law ; it will be inflexible in its applica- 
tions, and subject to none of those implied and reason- 
able exceptions and modifications, which now constitute its 
peculiar character. This objection would certainly have 
much weight, if it were a necessary result, that the codi- 
fication of the common law would thus destroy its flexibil- 
ity, and reduce it to a hard and unyielding positive text. 
But the Commissioners are of opinion, that no such result 
would or ought to follow. On the contrary, they propose, 
(as has been already suggested) that the reduction of the 
common law to a text should not be held to change the 
nature or character of the interpretation or application of 
its doctrines. 

An objection of a diflerent character, and which, indeed, 
is that, which in one shape or another is found afloat 
through the community, is, that every Code of the com- 
mon law must necessarily be imperfect, and leave much 
still to be explained by very imperfect lights ; that so far 
as the principles and details of the common law are capa- 
ble of codification, they are, or are supposed to be, now 
well known, and a Code is not necessary to ascertain or 
promulgate them; that the benefits of a Code must, there- 
fore, be slight and unimportant, since it can provide for 
comparatively few cases of real doubt, and may even lead 
to mischievous errors in reasoning or application of the 
text. 

This objection may perhaps be best answered by a 
consideration of the benefits, which may be derived from 
a codification of the common law. It has been already 
admitted, that every such codification must, from the 
nature of things, be imperfect ; for it never can embrace 



31 

all the past, present, and future changes in society, which 
may require new rules to govern them. But this is an 
objection, in its general form, founded upon the absolute 
infirmity of human nature, for every purpose of perfect 
action, and is not limited to codification. It by no means 
follows, that, because legislation cannot do every thing, 
or foresee every thing, therefore no legislation should 
exist, either to remedy evils, to ascertain rights, or to 
secure property. The benefits proposed by a Code may 
be summed up in the following propositions. 

I. In the first place, certainty, clearness, and facility 
of reference are of great importance in all matters of law. 
which concern the public generally. It is desirable, in 
every community, that the laws, which govern the rights, 
duties, relations, and business of the people, should as 
far as practicable, be accessible to them for daily use or 
consultation. No one, indeed, is so rash as to suppose, 
that, with the very different occupations, means of educa- 
tion, and opportunities of leisure, of the mass of the peo- 
ple, it is possible for them fully or accurately to under- 
stand all the laws in their full force and extent. This 
must, under all circumstances, require thorough study, 
laborious diligence, and a great variety of accessary 
knowledge. But it does not follow, that, because all 
cannot be attained, therefore the more general and useful 
rules may not be brought under the notice of the people, 
and, according to their attainments and leisure, be made 
the means of guarding them from gross mistakes in busi- 
ness, or gross violations of the rights of others. Now, 
certainly, if a rule or doctrine of the common law exists 
in a determinate form or with a determinate certainty, 
it is capable of being so expressed in the text of a code. 
If so capable, then it is not easyjto perceive, why it should 



not be so expressed, that it may furnish a guide for in- 
quirers, to clear away a private doubt, or to satisfy a 
hesitating judgment. 

But this is not all. At present, the known rules and 
doctrines of the common law are spread over many pon- 
derous volumes. They are no where collected together 
in a concise and systematic form, having a positive legis- 
lative sanction. They are to be gathered from treatises 
upon distinct and independent subjects of very different 
merit and accuracy ; from digests and abridgments ; 
from books of practice and from professional practice ; 
and above all, from books of reports of adjudged cases, 
many hundreds of which now exist, and which re- 
quire to be painfully and laboriously consulted in order 
to ascertain them. These rules and doctrines may be 
well known and well understood by eminent lawyers 
and judges, by profound students, who possess an ample 
library of law books, and by others, who devote their 
whole leisure to the purpose. And yet men less eminent, 
less studious, or with less means to provide a library, or 
to consult it, may be unable to arrive at the same cer- 
tainty, and may even be misled by their partial examina- 
tions into serious errors and mistakes. A leading rule 
may have some exceptions, w^hich have escaped the 
researches of the party, and yet be as well established as 
the rule itself. Many law suits are now founded upon 
errors and mistakes of this sort, which the mere imper- 
fection of the means within the reach of the interested 
party, or of his counsel, has unavoidably produced. A 
single line of a Code, properly and accurately prepared 
upon such a subject, might at once have dissipated every 
doubt and uncertainty, as to the nature, extent and ope- 
ration of the existing rule. 



33 

II. And this leads the Commissioners to remark, in 
the next place, that one great use of a Code of the com- 
mon law, in its principal branche*s, will be the abridgment 
of professional as well as of private labor, in ascertaining 
and advising upon a rule or doctrine of that law. A vast 
deal of time is now necessarily consumed, if not wasted, 
in ascertaining the precise bearing and result of various 
cases, which have been decided touching a particular topic. 
If the result is at all contested by the adverse party, no 
counsellor would feel safe without a thorough examination 
of all the leading cases (even though they should spread 
over centuries), lest he should be surprised at the argu- 
ment by a loose dictum, a questionable authority, or an 
ambiguous statement, either distinguishing, or controlling 
the case before him. Hence it is, that lawyers in the 
fullest practice are compelled to the most severe studies 
upon points, upon which they do not entertain much, if 
any doubt, lest, in the long array of cases, which may be 
cited upon any disputed or undisputed point, there should 
be some intimation, which might injuriously affect their 
client's rights or remedy. And yet, it is not too much 
to say, that often a single page of a Code would contain, 
in a "clear and explicit statement, all that the researches 
of a week, or even of a month, would scarcely justify them 
in affirming with an unfaltering confidence. 

One great advantage, therefore, of a Code, an advan- 
tage, which in a practical view can scarcely be over- 
estimated, is, that it supersedes the necessity, in ordinary 
cases at least, of very elaborate researches into other books; 
and, indeed, it often supersedes in all cases, but those of 
rare and extraordinary occurrence, the necessity of con- 
sulting an immense mass of learned collections and digests 
of antecedent decisions. 
5 



34 

This has accordingly been found to be one of the ordinary 
results of codification, whenever it has been successfully 
accomplished. Thus, we are informed, that the Codes of 
Justinian superseded for ordinary use some camels' loads 
of written Commentaries on the law. And it is notorious 
that the civil Code of France, (commonly called the Na- 
poleon Code,) has, in like manner, thrown out of the daily 
consultation of jurists a voluminous bulk of treatises 
upon the customary and provincial law of that country. 
There are cases, indeed, in which now those voluminous 
collections must still be consulted. But the occasions 
are probably, not one in a hundred of what they were, 
before that Code was promulgated. In like manner, it 
may be unhesitatingly affirmed, that the maritime and 
commercial Ordinances of Louis the 14th, of 1673 and 
1681, not only put an end to a vast extent of litigation 
in the different maritime provinces of that kingdom ; but 
also furnished rules, so clear and so equitable, as to have 
been adopted as the basis of much of the maritime law of 
other countries, and especially of that of England. 

Ill, In the next place., it may be stated, in connexion 
with the preceding head, and as illustrative of it, that 
there are in the common law many points, which, though 
on the whole now established by a considerable weight 
of judicial authority, are not absolutely beyond the reach 
of forensic controversy, if learned counsel shouid choose 
to stir them. There are, for example, many questions, 
which have given rise to litigation in different ages, and 
-upon which there may be found in the reports, not only 
occasional diversities of judicial opinion, but many nice 
distinctions and differences, and many incidental dicta, 
which serve greatly to perplex the inquiries of the ablest 
lawyers. Where authorities are to be found on each 



35 

side of a point ; where the circumstances of cases, very 
nearly resembling each other in most respects, are yet 
distinguishable from each other, by nice shades of differ- 
ence, or have been so distinguished, thus furnishing 
grounds for reasoning and controversy, as to the precise 
extent of a principle ; no judges would feel at liberty to 
stop the argument, although, in their judgment, the weight 
of authority should be clearly against the suggested dis- 
tinction or difference. Much of the time of courts of 
justice is consumed in arguments of this sort, where 
there are numerous cases, with some slight differences of 
circumstances, bearing on the same general rule, all of 
which may be required to be examined and distinguished. 
It was said by an eminent Judge, (Lord Eldon) upon one 
occasion, where some question of artificial or technical 
law was under discussion before him, that there were 
upwards of three hundred cases bearing on that question, 
which had already been decided. To master them, with 
all their minute distinctions of circumstances, would of it- 
self be a vast labor. And yet it is not perhaps too much 
to say, that four or five lines of text in a Code, stating the 
true general rule, deducible from the best of them, would 
at once have put aside the necessity of any further con- 
sideration of most of these cases. 

There are, besides, numerous points, upon which there 
are now to be found conflicting decisions, or dicta of courts 
of justice, which shake the authority of certain doc- 
trines. In cases of this sort, it seems desirable to es- 
tablish, which of these decisions constitutes the true rule, 
or at least to give a positive affirmance of the true rule, 
when it can be fairly ascertained, what that is. And 
perhaps also, in some instances of daily practical impor- 
tance, where there is a real doubt, what the true rule of 



36 

the common law is, it may not be without use to fix it in 
a like positive form. 

The Commissioners do not indulge the rash expecta- 
tion, that any Code of the known existing common law 
will dry up all the common sources of litigation. New 
cases m.ust arise, which no Code can provide for, or even 
ascertain. These must necessarily be left to be disposed 
of by courts of justice, as they shall occur in future. 
But the Commissioners are of opinion, that a Code, which 
shall contain the clearly established principles of the 
common law, will be attended with great benefits to the 
public, for the reasons already stated. It will shew, what 
the existing law is, as far as it goes, in a clear and intel- 
ligible manner. It will have a tendency to suppress 
useless and expensive litigation. It will greatly abridge 
the labors of judges, as well as of the profession, by 
furnishing a starting point for future discussions, instead 
of imposing the necessity of constant researches through 
all the past annals of the law. 

Having stated these general reasons in favor of the 
reduction to a Code of the common law of Massachusetts, 
to a limited extent, we are next naturally led to the in- 
quiry, what portions of the common lavv' should or may 
be reduced to such a Code ? 

For the purpose of a more exact consideration of 
this subject, the common law of Massachusetts may be 
distinguished into four classes. 

I. That, which is potentially in existence, but, in a 
great measure, obsolete ; and that, which is of rare occur- 
rence in practice, or doubtful and obscure in regard to its 
nature, extent and operation in the Commonwealth. 

II. That, wdiich, though positively in existence and 



37 

known as a part of the common law, and admitting of 
general application, has yet been so modified or altered 
by the Legislature, as to be of but limited use in practice. 

III. That, which is of daily occurrence in the common 
business of life, and furnishes the rules for the rights of 
persons and the rights of property of the community at 
large — in civil cases. 

IV. That, which defines and punishes crimes, and as- 
certains the rules of proceeding in criminal cases. 

In regard to the first class, it seems to the Commis- 
sioners wholly unnecessary to attempt any codification 
of so much of our common law as falls within its reach. 
It would be extremely difficult to draw up any exact text 
of this portion of our common law, from the obscurity of 
the proper materials, and from the difficulty in many 
cases of ascertaining the exact boundaries between what 
is merely obsolete, and what is not now a component 
part of that law. And, after all, if any codification there- 
of were made, it would rather be an incumbrance upon 
the general text, than any real aid to subsequent inquiries. 
Thus, for example, it may be a matter of some uncer- 
tainty, whether certain common law remedies, respecting 
real estate, are or were a part of the common law 
in force here: — such as writs of assize, of common, of 
pasture, of admeasurement of pasture, of partition, of ad- 
measurement of dower, of cosinage, certain kinds of writs 
of entry, writs of ejectione firraae, writs of warrantia 
chartae, and others of a similar nature. Of others, again, 
there is no doubt of their actual legal existence ; — such as, 
for example, fines and common recoveries ; and yet they 
are now scarcely known in practice, having been super- 
seded by other more convenient modes of transferring 
real estate. And yet the learning of the common law 
upon the subject of fines and recoveries is full of intrin- 



38 

sic difficulties and niceties, and technical principles, which 
it would require many pages to state, and many more to 
make intelligible to the common reader. The same re- 
marks are applicable to the common law respecting 
markets, outlawry, prerogative, voucher, waife, and other 
heads of a like nature, remote from our ordinary inquiries. 
In regard to the second class, there seems to be equal 
doubt of the solid utility of any attempt at codification. 
The great extent, to which legislative enactments have 
gone in the modification, alteration and superseding of 
large portions of this class, directly or indirectly, would 
make the task of selecting that, which is in force, exceed- 
ingly embarrassing, and perhaps perilous. Thus, for ex- 
ample, the common law respecting amendments of process 
and proceedings, bail, distress, feofi'raents, and other 
common law modes of conveyancing, forfeitures, mesne 
and final process, sheriffs and trials, have undergone so 
many modifications, and alterations, and partial abroga- 
tions, that it is not easy to say, how much of the very 
complicated doctrines of the common law on most of 
these topics is now actually in force ; for in practice they 
are of rare occurrence and application. But a still more 
striking illustration may be found in the subject of special 
pleading. It is well known, that this constitutes one of 
the most purely technical, acute and intricate subdivisions 
of the common law ; and even the doctrines relative to a 
small branch only of it, that of abatement, though rare in 
practice, is full of nice and over curious learning. The 
Legislature, by an act passed at its last session, have pro- 
vided, that all matters of law or of fact in defence, in any 
civil action, may be given in evidence under the general 
issue, and no other plea in bar of such action shall be 
pleaded. The effect of this enactment is, to abolish so 



39 

much of this branch of the law as relates to special pleas, 
technically so called. But it leaves in full force all the 
doctrines of pleading in regard to declarations, in regard 
to pleadings in abatement, in regard to the general issue, 
and in regard to general demurrers to the declaration. 
It would seem, under these circumstances, wholly unne- 
cessary to reduce to a Code the principles of pleading ap- 
plicable to special pleas, technically so called. The reduc- 
tion to a Code of the doctrines relative to pleadings in 
abatement, which is full of intricacy, and to a considera- 
ble degree obsolete in practice, would seem equally 
unnecessary. The doctrines of pleading still applicable 
to declarations, to general demurrers, and to the general 
issue, are of a very comprehensive nature, and abound 
with artificial and technical principles. And it would be 
a task of no small difficulty to say, in many cases, to 
what extent many of these principles reach, and how iar 
they are governed by rules ordinarily applied to special 
pleas, technically so called. For these reasons, the Com- 
missioners are of opinion, that it is not advisable, at pres- 
ent, to codify this branch of our jurisprudence. It would 
rather seem desirable, if any thing is to be done, to re- 
duce it to a more simple form, and disembarrass it of some 
of its cumbrous and inconvenient appendages. 

The third class is that, to which the Commissioners are 
of opinion, that the labors of codification should be stren- 
uously and sedulously directed. This class comprehends 
three great branches of the law. I. That, which respects 
the civil rights, capacities and duties of persons, consid- 
ered by themselves, or in their social and other relations 
to other persons ; and the remedies resulting from those 
rights, capacities and duties. II. That, which respects 
the rights and titles to real and personal property, and 



40 

the incidents thereto, and the remedies, bj which they 
are protected and vindicated. III. The rights, duties 
and claims arising from contracts, in the largest sense of 
that terra, comprehending; express contracts, such as bonds 
and obligations, conditions, conveyances, covenants, and 
other positive stipulations between parties competent to 
contract ; and implied contracts, which result by opera- 
tion of law, either from the implied consent and intentions 
of the parties, or from the dictates of natural justice in 
furtherance of right, or in suppression of wrong. Con- 
nected with this branch necessarily is the consideration 
of the remedies applicable to the various kinds of con- 
tracts; — some of which stand upon principles purely tech- 
nical, and others again upon principles of a more general 
nature. 

Many of the most important portions of our common 
law applicable to the first and second heads, are now so 
well ascertain'ed, and well defined, as to be capable of be- 
ing reduced to a positive text. Some of them are indeed 
of great intricacy ; but still capable of being in a great 
measure reduced to such a text. Perhaps the most com- 
plicated of these will be found to be, the rights, and capa- 
cities, and duties of guardians and wards, of infants gener- 
ally, of husband and wife, of executors and administrators 
^nd administrations, of corporations, and the rights and ti- 
tles growing out of last wills and testaments. The latter 
are of singular intricacy and nicety of detail, arising from 
the almost infinite variety of language and provisions to be 
found in last wills and testaments, from the ignorance, or 
peculiar views, or imperfect expressions of intention by 
different testators. And yet, it may with truth be said, 
that even the reduction to a Code of the rules and princi- 
ples, which have been deduced by a great writer (Mr. 



41 

Fearne) from a most acute and close survey of a single 
head of this subject, that of contingent remainders and 
executory devises, in the very language, in which he has 
expressed them, would of itself be no inconsiderable ad- 
vantage to the profession, as well as to the public. It 
would almost supersede, in cases constantly arising, the 
necessity of a daily consultation of authorities, spread- 
ing over centuries, and so numerous and various in their 
application, as to task the time and diligence of the ablest 
lawyers to a most exhausting extent. They would, at 
least, have a point of rest, at which they might repose, 
secure as to the past. 

But it is principally in the third and last class, that the 
Commissioners are of opinion, that the benefits of a Code 
will be most extensively felt, and in which the task may 
be performed with the greatest certainty of success. It 
is true, that some branches of the law of contracts contain 
rules and principles of a technical and artificial nature, 
not well adapted to the modern exigencies of societ3^ 
Examples of this sort may be found in the law applicable 
to obligations, conditions, covenants, and certain classes 
of conveyances. But, in general, the law of contracts 
may be affirmed to be founded in sound sense, and adapt- 
ed to the ends of social justice. Especially may this be 
affirmed of the law of contracts, which has been developed 
and established within the last century. Even the law 
of contracts, applicable to the old forms of obligations and 
covenants and conveyances, has been, by the cautious ex- 
positions of great judges in different ages, reduced to a 
high degree of certainty. But commercial contracts are 
eminently entitled to be deemed in this predicament; and 
under the forming hands of a succession of learned judges 
and jurists for the last century, they have attained a sci- 
6 



42 

entic precision, and accuracy, and clearness, which give 
them an indisputable title to be treated as a fixed system 
of national jurisprudence. In regard to commercial con- 
tracts, it may be affirmed without hesitation, that the 
general principles, which define and regulate them, and 
even the subordinate details of those principles, to a very 
great extent, are now capable of being put in a regular 
order, and announced in determinate propositions in the 
text of a Code. Among these contracts, the Commission- 
ers would especially recommend as the subjects of a Code 
the following titles, viz : the law of agency, of bailments, 
of guaranty, of suretyship, of bills of exchange, of promis- 
sory notes, of insurance, and of partnership. They 
would also recommend, in like manner, the law of navi- 
gation and shipping and maritime contracts, including 
therein the law respecting the rights, duties and authorities 
of owners, and part owners, and masters, and seamen, and 
shippers, and passengers ; the law of bottomry, of charter 
parties, bills of lading, and other contracts of affreight- 
ment, including therein the law of freight ; and the law 
of general average, of salvage, and of seamen's wages. 
These branches of commercial and maritime law are not 
only capable of being put into the form of a positive text, 
but of being condensed into a text of a comparatively 
small extent. It is not too much to affirm, that the 
whole law of insurance, as far as it has been ascertained 
and established by judicial decisions and otherwise, may 
now be stated in a text not exceeding thirty pages of the 
ordinary size of octavos. In point of fact, it is embraced 
in the commercial code of France in less than half that 
space ; and most of the principles of that part of the Code 
are the same as those of our law. 

In the next place, the Commissioners are of opinion. 



43 

as indeed they have already intimated, that the common 
law, as to crimes and punishments, and the incidents 
thereto, admits of being generally reduced to a Code with 
accuracy and precision. If it can be done, it seems to the 
Commissioners, that the public at large have a right to 
claim from the Legislature, that it shall be done. One 
of the most obvious dictates of reason is, that public 
crimes, which are to affect every citizen, should, as far as 
practicable, be made known to all. It is wholly unne- 
cessary for the Commissioners to expound the importance 
of this truth, as it cannot well escape the notice of every 
intelligent legislator. It is fortunate, that in the present 
state of the criminal law, there is so much certainty as to 
the nature and punishment of crimes, at the common law, 
and the incidents and modes of proceeding therein, that 
it will not be found a very difficult task, to reduce most of 
the important doctrines and rules to a positive text. 

Connected with these extensive branches of the com- 
mon law, both civil and criminal, there remains the grave 
subject of the law of evidence, involving not merely ques- 
tions respecting the competency and credibility of testi- 
mony, but the general rules for the admissibility of written 
and parol evidence on particular issues. Owing to the 
invaluable labors of the eminent judges of the last half 
century, this subject is now, with a few unimportant 
anomalies, capable of a scientific arrangement and deter- 
minate exposition, in its general principles,' and in many 
of its most useful details. The rules of evidence have 
been truly said to consitute the best, if not the only real 
security for the lives, the personal rights, and the property 
of all our citizens ; and, therefore, the knowledge of them 
is of infinite moment to the public, as well as to the pro- 
fession. Any Code, which does not embrace them, must be 



44 

pronounced to be in its very constitution radically defec- 
tive. The Commissioners, therefore, earnestly recom- 
mend the codification of the law of evidence, as among 
the first objects for the deliberation of the Legislature. 

The Commissioners have thus given a very summary 
view of their opinions, respecting the codification of our 
common law. Every topic, which they have ventured 
to suggest, might easily have been expanded into a great 
variety of auxiliary considerations. But it has seemed to 
them sufficient to point out the general grounds of their 
opinions, and to leave to the wisdom of the Legislature 
a full review of them. 

In concluding this part of the subject, it seems proper 
for the Commissioners to suggest, though it does not ex- 
actly fall within the strict terms of their commission, 
that if a Code should be framed upon any or all of the 
topics, which they have ventured to recommend, it will 
afford a fit opportunity for the Legislature to supply some 
of the acknowledged defects, to cure some of the admitted 
anomalies, and to correct some of the erroneous doctrines, 
which, in a long succession of ages, have gradually been 
engrafted upon our common law. This, to be sure, 
ought to be done with a cautious and skilful hand, and with 
a deep sense of the delicacy of intermeddling with estab- 
lished principles. If, however, no changes are attempted 
except such as have the sanction of experiehce, and the 
support and approbation of enlightened judges and jurists, 
much may be done to introduce harmony, and consistency, 
and simplicity into the general system. 

It now only remains for the Commissioners to express 
their opinion, as to the plan or plans, by which such codifi- 
cation, if undertaken, can be best accomplished. Looking 
to the extent and variety of the labor, as well as to the 



45 

learning and ability required for the task, the Commis- 
sioners think, that it will be indispensable to employ at 
least five Commissioners, of high standing in the profession, 
and otherwise suitably qualified, to reduce those portions 
of our common law to a Code or Codes, which the Com- 
missioners have proposed. Much time must necessarily 
be devoted exclusively to the subject ; and, with all the 
aids, which can be obtained, several years will be required 
for the completion of the entire enterprize. During the 
progress of it, the Commissioners must have frequent 
meetings for discussion, as well as for a careful examination 
and scrupulous review of the labors of each other. Per- 
haps it may be found advisable to authorize the Commis- 
sioners occasionally to employ some assistants, having 
extraordinary qualifications, to bring together the mate- 
rials of a particular head for the more deliberate consider- 
ation of the Commissioners. In this vvay the progress of 
the work might be greatly accelerated, at a comparatively 
small expense. And it may be properly It; ft to the Com- 
misioners to decide, whether it will be best to lay before 
the Legislature the result of their labors, from time to 
time, as particular topics shall be reduced to a text ; or 
to await the accomplishment of the entire scheme, and 
then to submit it as a whole to the Legislature. 

As the Commissioners may find it necessary to open a 
wide correspondence with members of the profession, in 
various parts of the United States, as well as to perform 
many incidental duties, requiring the aid of a Secretary, 
it is respectfully submitted, that they should be author- 
ized to appoint one, with a suitable compensation. 

The Commissioners do not understand that they are 
required, by their commission, to lay before the Legisla- 
ture the details of the plan or plans, by which the System 



46 



of Codification should be carried into effect, or the par- 
ticular branches of the common law, which it should 
embrace, or any analytical exhibition of the mode or 
arrangement, or contents of the code. They presume, 
that these matters will properly appertain, and indeed 
ought to appertain, to the duties of the Commissioners, 
who shall be appointed to prepare such a Code, if the 
Legislature should choose to sanction the project. It is 
obvious, that, in the progress of the investigations, neces- 
sary to complete so extensive a labor, many new views 
must continually arise, and many amendments and im- 
provements of the first plan may be suggested by the 
experience of the Commissioners, and a more thorough 
and close examination of particular topics. 

Such are the expositions, which the Commissioners 
have thought it their duty to present to the consideration 
of the Legislature, upon the interesting and important 
subject of their commission. 

All which is most respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH STORY, 
THERON METCALF, 
SIMON GREENLEAF, 
CHARLES E. FORBES, 
LUTHER S. CUSHING, 

Commissioners. 



