THE 

MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED 

STATES OF AMERICA, 

WITH 

AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE 

IN AID OF THE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. 



RE-PUBLISHED FROM THE LONDON AND WESTMINSTER REVIEW, 



NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE EMANCIPATION AND 
ABORIGINES PROTECTION SOCIETY. 



NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE, 

FINLAY AND CHARLTON; LONDON, HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO. J 

DUBLIN, CURRIE AND CO. ; EDINBURGH, OLIPHANT AND 

SON ; AND ALL OTHER BOOKSELLERS. 

1840. 



Please read and circulate. 



res:. 7?fc5-7A ««?' /D 






THE 

MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED 
STATES OF AMERICA, 

WITH 

AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE 

IN AID OF THE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. 



RE-PUBLISHED FROM THE LONDON AND WESTMINSTER REVIEW, 

EY THE 

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE EMANCIPATION AND 
ABORIGINES PROTECTION SOCIETY. 



NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE, 

FINLAY AND CHARLTON; LONDON, HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO. ; 
DUBLIN, CURRIE AND CO. ; EDINBURGH, OLIPHANT AND 
SON; AND ALL OTHER BOOKSELLERS. 

1840. 



At a Meeting of the Committee of the Newcastle Emancipa- 
tion and Aborigines Protection Society, on the 27lli of December 1839; 

(Mr. Finlay in the Chair;) 

It was resolved., that it is expedient to reprint, in a cheap foj 
article from the London and Westminster Review, of December, !■ 
containing an account of the Oberlin Institute, and entitled "The Mar- 
tyr Age of the United States;" and that the Secretaries be requested 
to wait on a number of the Friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, for dona- 
tions in aid of the Oberlin Institute, and for defraying the expense of such 
printing. 

And that the article in the London and Westminster Review be 
published under the direction of Miss H. Martinean, Mr. Finlay, and 
Mr. Wm. Carsrill. 



to the committee of the newcastle emancipation and 
aborigines protection society. 

Gentlemen, 

We are happy to proceed in the task assigned us by your resolu- 
tion of the 27th instant, believing that the righteous deeds and words of 
the suffering Abolitionists of the United States have only to become 
known in this country, to secure a large measure of sympathy and aid 
to the noblest cause that society, in the present age, is called upon to 
sustain. 

Harriet Martineau. 
James Finlay. 
William Cargill. 

December 30, 1839 



AN APPEAL 



ON BEHALF OF 



nst: 



An Account of the Origin and Condition of the Oberlin Institute will be 
found at p. 1 !, of the following historical sketch of the trials of the Abo- 
litionists of the United Slates. 

Owing- to the severe and long-continued commercial pressure in Ame- 
rica, the Oberlin is thrown into difficulties, so nearly overwhelming, that 
its supporters have resolved to appeal to this country for aid. Two 
gentlemen, perfectly well acquainted with the circumstances of the insti- 
tution, the Rev. John Keep and William Dawes, Esq., have offered their 
disinterested services as representatives of the friends of the Oberlin. 
They come commended to the friendship and aid of British society, by 
all the most honoured men and women among the American abolition- 
ists. It is to aid their work that this tract is put forth ; and we trust 
that the statement we shall presently make„of the claims of their object 
to British support, will help to secure for them that success which their 
reception has already led them to anticipate. 

The circular in which their views are explained contains the following 
particulars :— 

CIRCULAR. 

The Institution on behalf of which the present application is made, 
is situated in the northern part of Ohio, near the head of the great valley 
of the Mississippi. It has a Charter with University privileges, and 
originated in the following circumstances : — 

The Students at Lane Seminary, (a Theological College,) at Cin- 
cinnati, in Ohio, in 1834, having become interested in the Abolition 
controversy, held a protracted discussion among themselves on the sub- 
ject, and after three days' solemn debate, came to a resolution condem- 
natory of Slavery as incompatible with the spirit and precepts of Chris- 
tianity. They formed an Abolition Society, and took means to acquaint 
themselves more thoroughly with the real nature of the slave system, 
and of the obligations which devolved on them in relation to it. These 
measures gave great offence to the heads of the college, who authorita- 
tively interposed to prevent any further discussion of the subject. The 



Vi AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 

young men were prohibited from making it the topic of conversation, 
" on ordinary occasions and elsewhere," and on remonstrance, were 
given to understand that their continuance in the Seminary was depen- 
dent on their yielding an unqualified submission to this injunction; 
The heads of the college were positive, and it was left for the students 
either to sacrifice their duty to God and remain ; or to maintain it and 
leave. They nobly chose the latter, and the result was that about forty 
of the most pious and talented were thus compelled to quit Lane 
Seminary. Such a body of young men, who so conscientiously main- 
tained their principles at the expense of their prospects in life, was hailed 
with joy by the abolitionists, for it at once supplied them with a number 
of most zealous advocates. 

It now became necessary to establish an Institution, in which the 
rights of conscience and of the Christian religion should be maintained, 
and in which the coloured person could be taught, and where he would 
be in all respects treated as a man and a brother. 

A tract of 500 acres, in the midst of a forest, was obtained ; and 
thither this noble band repaired, and commenced cutting down the tim- 
ber and clearing the land ; and so ardent were they in this cause, that 
they freely submitted to all the hardships incident to these new circum- 
stances, and persevered in their labour during the winter season of 1834 
and 1835. 

Thus commenced the present Institution, which consists of a brick 
building 111 feet long, and 42 feet wide ; containing ninety-two rooms, 
including a hall and a library, with nine other buildings, chiefly of wood, 
and a barn. There are about 200 acres of land partially cleared, and 
brought into cultivation. A practical farmer superintends the cultiva- 
tion ; the labour is performed by the Students for- the support, main- 
tenance, and general good of the Institution. 

In all its features this Institution is opposed to Slavery ; and is a 
practical and standing exhibition of the great doctrine of immediate 
emancipation, producing its legitimate and beneficent results ; youth are 
admitted to all its privileges, without regard to colour, or nation, and 
there is a department for the instruction of females. It is thoroughly 
evangelical in its spirit and character, is free from all sectarian partial- 
ities discards the prejudice of caste in its various and disgraceful forms, 
and has already become a terror to the slave-holder, and a shield and a 
solace to the victim of the white man's tyranny. By uniting the youth 
of all colours in the same course of academical training, it furnishes a 
practical method of elevating the African race, of abolishing the tyranny 
of caste, and of opening an effectual door through which the black and 
the free-coloured man may attain the rights of citizenship, and the bless- 
ings of a quiet and protected home. It comprises a Preparatory, Colle- 
giate, and Theological department, and at present numbers above 400 
Students, with twenty-six Professors and Teachers. This Institution is 
the great nursery of teachers for the coloured people in the United States 
and Canada; in the latter of which, are 10,000 refugees from American 
bondage. It is an admirable school for the training of anti-slavery lec- 
turers and preachers,— a class of men long demanded, and now called 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. Vli 

for more urgently than ever by the state of the abolition controversy, 
and the increasing horrors of the American slave system. Several of 
the students have already entered on this arduous and self-denying field 
of labour, others are looking forward to the same holy calling. Twelve 
have gone to the West Indies as missionaries and teachers of the eman- 
cipated negroes, ten are on their way to the oppressed Aborigines in the 
western parts of America, and twenty are engaged among the coloured 
fugitives in Canada. 

During the annual vacations, the students and professors have tra- 
versed extensively the States of Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, and the 
Western parts of New York and Pennsylvania. Wherever they have 
gone, drooping liberty has revived and gained strength. 

With the noble exception of the Oneida Institute in the State of 
New York, which, in the midst of persecution, has stood erect and pre- 
eminently true to the slave, mighty in its free testimony, and terrible to 
the oppressor, the Institution of Oberlin is the only one in the United 
States in which the black and coloured student finds a home, where he 
is fully and joyfully regarded as a man and a brother. 

The stand which has been taken at Oberlin against slavery, and the 
prejudice respecting colour, has excited not only the bitter hostility of 
the upholders of slavery, but also of a large proportion of the professing 
church. Another cause of offence is, that at this institution a plan of 
daily manual labour is adopted, shared in alike by the white as well as 
the coloured man. The founders of this institution consider this plan 
most important $o the health, industry, energetic habits, independence 
of character, good morals, and economy of the students. 

It would be injustice to the Professors of this institution, not to 
mention the sacrifices they have generously made, and the hardships 
they have borne in this cause. There is no institution in the United 
States with the same number of instructors, whose Professors are men of 
more eminent ability ; and yet these men, whose qualifications might 
command the highest salaries, are supporting themselves and their fami- 
lies upon a very humble income ; and, since the commercial distress 
which fell so heavily, about three years since, on many of its most able 
supporters, the Professors have been obliged to employ the vacations in 
labour to provide food and clothing for their families. 

The necessities of the institution are now so pressing, that its opera- 
tions must inevitably cease, if effectual relief be not speedily afforded. 
The Professors, their families, and the students have often been reduced 
to such straits, even for their daily food, that from week to week they 
have not known from whence the next providential supply would come. 
Thus far, through the kind care of Him whose eyes are over all his 
works, when to human view the last resourse was cutoff, and no earthly 
alternative remained, their daily wants have been supplied, and their 
hearts strengthened, to wait in the patience of hope, and to look to God 
for a like supply on the morrow. 

Towards the support of the Oberlin Institute, the Abolitionists of 
America have contributed with their accustomed liberality. Sixty-five 
thousand dollars (£13,000) were subscribed to establish this institution; 



Vlll 



AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 



but, owing lo the fire in New York, and the commercial distress which 
has since been experienced in the United States, many, who three years 
since were wealthy, are now reduced in their circumstances, and have 
become unable to fulfil their engagements to this institution. Few of 
the Abolitionists are wealthy, and the demand for funds to sustain the 
general operations of their Anti-Slavery Society, presses heavily upon 
them. It is difficult for the friends of the negro in Great Britain to 
form any adequate conception of the pecuniary pressure which rests on 
the American abolitionists. Opposed by the great majority of their 
countrymen, and denounced — disgracefully denounced by many of the 
churches of the land, they have been called to pecuniary sacrifices, such 
as modern times have rarely witnessed, and to which nothing could have 
prompted them but a solemn conviction of duty towards God and their 
fellow-men. " To their power, yea, and beyond their power, they were 
willing of themselves," and their acts will stand out in the history of a 
progressive benevolence, as a pattern for the church's imitation. 

It is under these circumstances, that the friends of the Oberlin In- 
stitute apply lo the philanthropists and Christians of Great Britain. So 
long as they were able to sustain its operations themselves, they willingly 
did so, but the failure of their means now obliges them to make an 
•appeal to their British brethren, which for the honour of the country and 
the good of an oppressed and suffering race, we trust will be liberally 
responded to. The institute is already in debt, and the sum owing 
bears a high rate of interest. The Professors and their families have 
long been reduced to the greatest straits, and must^oon, though in 
deep bitterness of heart, relinquish their stations, unless God in his pro- 
vidence raises them help. 

A deputation, consisting of John Keep and William Dawes, is 
now in this country, for the purpose of bringing the claims of the Insti- 
tution before the benevolent. They are affectionately commended to 
our confidence, prayers, sympathies, and benefactions in a document, 
signed by — 



Arthur Tappan. 
La Roy Sunderland. 
James G- Bimey. 
Jno. G. Whittier. 
James Forten. 
Joseph Southwick. 
Thankful Southwick. 
Ellis Gray Loving. 
Charles Follen. 
Henry B. Stanton. 
Samuel J. May. 
William Lloyd Garrison. 
Henry Grew. 
James C Fuller. 
Angelina D. Weld. 
Sarah M. Grimke. 
Theodore D. Weld. 
James M'Cnne Smith. 



Lewis Tappan. 
Joshua Leavitt. 
Gerrit Smith. 
Charles W. Gardner. 
Samuel E. Cornish. 
David Lee Child. 
Maria W. Chapman. 
Marv S. Parker. 
Wendell Phillips. 
Henry G. Chapman. 
Amasa Walker. 
Francis Jackson. 
Robert Purvis. 
Alvan Stewart. 
Peter Williams. 
Joshua R. Giddings. 
E. C. Delavan. 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. 



IX 



Who are among the leading abolitionists of the United States, and 
who thus write in the document transmitted by the Deputation : — 

From our knowledge of the Professors at Oberlin, of the spirit that pervades 
the Institution, and of the mighty influence, young as it is, which it is already 
putting forth, we feel solemnly moved by duty, and sweetly constrained 
by love to the truth, and honour for its faithful avowal, to give our emphatic 
testimony in favour of the Oberlin Institute. We believe it to be accomplish- 
ing more for freedom of thought, speech, and conscience, more for the great 
cause of human liberty and equal rights, the annihilation of prejudice and caste 
in every form — more to honour God, to exalt his Truth, and to purify a cor- 
rupt church and ministry, than any other Institution in the United States. 

On a review of the whole circumstances of the Oberlin Institute, its 
origin, history, and tendency, the conviction must be deeply felt, that it 
is pre-eminently adapted to compass the benevolent and Christian object 
of its founders ; that it is friendly alike to the elevation of an oppressed 
people, and the emancipation of the American churches from their vassal- 
age to the spirit of this world, and that it is strongly commended to the 
friends of the slave and the coloured free man, and, indeed, to all who 
are concerned for the welfare of their species, and the purity of the 
church of Christ. 

The object has received the sanction of the following persons by 
subscriptions and otherwise : 





£. 


s. 


D. 


Thos. Fowell Buxton, Esq., 


100 








Samuel Gurney, Esq., 


100 








Thomas Sturge, Esq., 


100 








G. W. Alexander, Esq., 


100 








John Bell, Esq , 


100 








Miss A. Hopkins Smith, 


100 








A Friend toItightPiinciplet 


, 52 


10 





Sir Culling E. Smith, Bart., 


50 








Philip Frith, Esq., 


50 








From Two Friends in Irelan 


3,50 








Miss Mary Phillips, 


30 








Miss Margaret Pope, 


30 








Herbert Mayo, Esq., 


30 








James Cunliffe, Esq., 


25 








John Grant, Esq., 


25 








Joseph Sharpless, Esq., 


25 








Jonathan Backhouse, Esq., 


25 








Hanbury, Taylor, and Co., 








Esqrs , 


21 








John Alcard, Esq., 


20 








Jonathan Barrett, Esq., 


20 








Richard Barrett, Esq., 


20 








George Head, Esq., 


20 





<i 


William M'Murray, Esq., 


20 








Joseph Sturge, Esq., 


20 








Richard Sterry, Esq., 


20 








Miss Sarah Wedgwood, 


20 








Christopher Bowley, Esq., 


20 








Mrs. Ann Hull 


20 









Henry Bath, Esq., 
Mrs. Ann Holland, 
L. and M. Howard, Esqrs., 
W. B. Gurney, Esq , ■* 
John Bradbupv, E$q.,°( An.), 
William Ca£h,"Esq , 
Miss Elizabeth Pease (An.), 
Charles Meeking, Esq., 
Samuel Morley, Esq., 
Joseph Neatby, Esq., 
Thomas Norton, Jun., Esq., 
Thomas Richardson, Esq., 
Joseph Sterry & Sons, Esqrs., 10 
Thomas Smith, Esq., 
Mrs. Sarah Baker, 
John Chippendale, Esq., 
John D. Bassett, Esq., 
Miss Anna Hull, 
John Rutter, Esq., 
Ladies A. S. Society of New- 
castle, 
William Peek, Esq.. 
William Exton, Esq., 
Thomas Be vans, Esq., 
Joseph T. Foster, Esq., 
Cornelius Hanbury, Esq., 
Mrs. Jane Harris, 
Robert Howard, Esq., (An.), 
Wm. Janson, Jun., Esq., (An.), 5 



£. 


s. 


D. 


20 








20 








15 








10 


10 





10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








10 








5 








5 








5 








5 








5 








,5 









AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OP 





£. 


s. 


D. 


Mrs. Mary Overend, 


5 








John Sanderson, Esq., 


5 








Misses Rachel and M. Stacey 


5 








Geo. Thompson, Esq., (An.), 


5 








John Phillipson, Esq., 


5 








William Cook, Esq., (An.), 


5 








W. T. Huggins, Esq., 


5 








Samuel Bagster, Esq., 


5 








Charles Ridgeway, Esq.. 


5 








George Osborne, Esq., 


& 








Edward Lawford, Esq., 


5 








W. Hull, Esq., 


5 









Daniel Rutter, Esq., 
John Backhouse, Esq., 
Katharine Backhouse 
Eliza Backhouse 
Jane G. Backhouse, 
Ann Backhouse, 
William Backhouse, Esq., 
J. Collins, Esq., 
Thomas Wontner, Esq., 
Benjamin Smith, Esq., 
G. E. Angas, Esq , 



£. S. D. 



5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 
And various smaller sums. 



An account is opened with Messrs. Hanbury, Taylor, and Lloyd's, 
Bankers, 60, Lombard Street. 

Robert Forster, George Stacey, and Cornelius Hanbury, Esqrs. 
have kindly consented to be a Committee of Reference, who will inspect, 
audit, and publish the account of monies received. 

WILLIAM DAWES, 1 ^ , ,. 
JOHN KEEP, | Deputation. 

10, Wardrobe Place, Great Carter Lane, Doctor's Commons, 
London, JVav. Uth, 1839. 

As many persons in this country may be unacquainted with the 
nature of slavery as it exists in America, the following is appended, by 
which it may be seen what great difficulties the Abolitionists in that 
country have to contend with, owing to the state of the laws ; and also 
the efforts that are made to prevent not only the actual slave, but free 
coloured persons, in many of the States, from being taught to read, and 
to debar them from hearing the Gospel preached, and what sufferings 
await them when they meet together to worship the Lord. 

Slaves are not allowed to learn to read. 

In Georgia, a slave State, any justice of the peace may, at his discretion, 
break up any religious assembly of slaves, and may order each, slave present, 
without trial, to be flogged. 

In Virginia, all evening meetings of slaves, or of free persons of colour, for 
any religious purpose, are forbidden. Similar laws exist in other slave States. 

The law affords no protection to the marriage of slaves. The connexion may 
at any time be legally broken up, to gratify the avarice or licentiousness of the 
master. 

In Georgia, if a white teach a free coloured person or slave to read or write, 
he is fined ^100 and imprisoned at the discretion of the court. If a free coloured 
man teach, he is to be fined or whipped; of course a father may be flogged for 
teaching his own child. 

In North Carolina, it is unlawful to teach a slave to read or write, or to sell 
or give him any book or pamphlet, even toe Bible. 

In Georgia, if a free coloured man or negro preaches, he may be seized with- 
out warrant, and flogged to the extent of thirty-nine lashes ; and the same num- 
ber of lashes may be applied to each of his hearers. 

In Louisiana, the penalty for instructing a free-coloured person in a Sabbath 
School, is, for the first offence 500 dollars ; for the second offence — death. 

In South Carolina, if a free coloured person assists a run-away slave, he is 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. XI 

fined lol. ; and if unable to pay the fine, he is to be sold into slavery. In 1837, 
a free woman and her three children were thus sold, for harbouring two slave 
children. 

The slavery interest is so great as to have induced the free State of Connecti- 
cut to pass a law prohibiting schools for free persons of colour who should come 
from any other State. 

In June, 1833, Miss Crandell was imprisoned at Brooklyn, for having opened a 
school and taught free persons of colour who came from other free States, and 
her school was broken up. 

In addition to these laws, purposely made to keep the slaves and free- 
coloured population in a slate of degradation and ignorance, the Aboli- 
tionists have to contend with a powerful prej udice against colour. 

In some religious societies there are free coloured persons of great talents and 
piety, who are acknowledged and ordained as ministers. 

S. C, a coloured minister, was called in the course of his duty, to attend a 
general meeting of the Presbytery of Ministers and Elders ; he took an accepta- 
ble part in the proceedings of the meeting ; but when meal-times arrived, he 
alone was left uninvited, to grieve over the want of brotherly love and Christian 
kindness, nor was he invited by any to lodge. The next day the minister of the 
place, whose duty it was to provide for his brother ministers from a distance, 
touched with a feeling of this improper conduct, apologized for so great a neg- 
lect of Christian duty, proffered him money (which he did not need) to purchase 
food, and said his own house was full, and therefore he could not take him in to 
lodge, and that the residents belonging to his Church would not associate with 
him on account of his colour, although he was an acknowledged member of their 
own body. 

T. S. W. one of the regular pastors of a Presbyterian Church in the City of 
New York, was travelling with his wife in a steam boat : they were not allowed 
to go into the cabin at meals with the other passengers ; and although his wife 
was ill, he could not for any money procure abed, because they were people of 
colour : but they were obliged to remain on deck, exposed to the chills of the 
night, by which his wife lost her life. 

The perils and clangers to which Abolitionists are exposed, may be 
seen by the following facts : — 

The Rev. E. P. Lovejoy, an abolitionist, the editor of a newspaper in a free 
State, was frequently assailed by a mob; at one time they were kept off by the 
extraordinary courage of his wife. On the last occasion, they shot him, and 
threw his printing press into the river. And such was public sentiment in favour 
of slavery in the City where these atrocities occurred, that the offenders could 
not be brought to justice. 

Dr. R. Crandall was cast into prison in Washington City, for having in his 
trunk anti -slavery papers, and detained so long in prison as to occasion his 
speedy death. 

A highly-respectable physician, a member of the Society of Friends, and an 
abolitionist, resident in a free State was, in his own house, assailed by a mob of 
persons calling themselves respectable : he was thrown by them violently on the 
floor, and required to promise that he would not thenceforth advocate the cause 
of the oppressed slave and coloured people. He refused to comply with this 

unrighteous demand. They trod on his neck, and otherwise ill-treated him 

pointed a gun at him, and threatened to burn his hou*^ ^.nd drive him away, 
but all in vain -he remained true to the cause of just/ -^d mercy. God re- 
strained the mob from taking his life. 



Xii AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 

Rev. George Storrs was dragged from his knees while in prayer, by the Deputy 
Sheriff, because he had delivered an address against slavery. At another time, 
he was, for the same offence, arrested in the pulpit, by authority of a writ from a 
Justice, and the Governor of the State indirectly sanctioned the deed. 

Mr. Preston, in debate, on the floor of the Senate of the United States said, 
" Let an abolitionist come within the borders of South Carolina, if we can catch 
him, we will try him : and notwithstanding all the interference of all the Go- 
vernments on earth, including the federal government, we will hang him." 

.Mr. Hammond, a member of Congress from South Carolina, used on the floor 
of Congress the following language: — ''I warn the Abolitionists, ignorant, in- 
fatuated barbarians as they are, that if chance shall throw any one of them into 
our hands, he may expect a felon's death." 

Many of the slaves in the United States are white, both men and women, 
children of American Citizens. Slavery was the lot of the daughters of Jefferson, 
President of the United States. Attempts are made to reduce foreigners to 
slavery. It is not long since the slave dealers seized a poor Irish woman, and 
although she protested she was from Ireland, she was only rescued by great efforts 
of the Abolitionists in a court of law. 

Breeding slaves is one of the great staples in trade of Virginia. Children are 
there reared for the market like oxen for the shambles. The sale of slaves from 
this State, in 1856, amounted to twenty-four millions of dollars. 

The streets of the City of Washington, the seat of Government, are often 
crowded on the Sabbath with manacled captives, on their way from the northern 
to the southern slave States. 

This trade in blood, this buying, imprisoning and exporting of men, women, 
boys and girls ; this tearing asunder of husbands and wives, parents and children, 
to the disgrace of the United States, is all legalized by virtue of authority dele- 
gated by Congress, in the following enactment of date July 28, 1831, viz. '* For 
license to trade or traffic in slaves ;" for which license to commit iniquity, that 
nation boasting of the greatest freedom on earth, exacts the sum of 400 dollars, 
or £80, the price of blood, to fill its treasury. 



Some further information regarding the facts maybe obtained from the 
replies of the deputation to the questions asked by the Committee of the 
Corporation of London. 

1. The date of the Institution ? 

Answer.— The Oberlin Institution was originated by the secession from 
Lane Seminary in 1834. (See forward, p. 11.) 

2. The objects for which it was established ? 

Answer. —The first object was to establish an educational institution 
where the principle of free inquiry should be fully recognised. In most of 
the colleges of theUnited States, restrictions were imposed on the discussion 
of the subject of slavery. This subject includes so many others, essential 
to the study of moral philosophy and religious truth, that no student can be 
called well-educated who is compelled to leave such unexamined. Yet 
more, earnest students feel that such restrictions require a surrender of 
right and duty as a condition of membership ; and such a surrender 
they cannot conscientiously make. The Oberlin is the resort of such. 
Another great object is to undermine the institution of slavery in the 
United States. The Oberlin operates towards this end in two ways : — 
by the emphatic testimony it bears in its very existence in favour of 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. Xlli 

human freedom, and by its equal welcome to students of every shade of 
complexion. The prejudice of colour, if the effect of slavery, is no less 
a main cause of its continuance. The doors of the Oberlin stand open, 
wide and free, to young men of the despised race, where, in a quiet 
home, they may be recognised as men, and treated as brethren, and be- 
come qualified to assert the rights of their class by the spectacle of their 
own achievements. 

3. The annual income ? 

Ansiver. — The Institution has no funds or endowments from which an 
income is guaranteed. Hitherto its interests have been promoted and 
sustained by voluntary contributions. Many of its original members, 
being sons and brothers of slave-holders, have sacrificed their possessions 
and prospects by the very act of joining the Oberlin. These, and others 
who could not contribute in money to the funds, earn their subsistence 
by the labour of their hands. In such labour all the members, without 
exception, unite ; and by such labour, united with extraordinary abste- 
miousness, they have been enabled to hold together to this day, with no 
other aid than the occasional and precarious contributions of distant 
friends, and the singular disinterestedness of their professors. 

4. The names of the committee and acting managers ? 
Answer. — Benj. Hall. Jabez L. Burrell. 

E. Parish. P. P. Pease. 

Asa Jennings. Addison Tracy. 

Josiah Tomlinson. Lewis H. Loss. 

Wm. Hosford. John I. Shippard. 

Owen Brown. John Holcomb. 

Residents of Huron, Portage, and Loraine counties, Ohio, and all 
persons of unquestionable worth and respectability. 

5. The value of its property ? 

Answer. — The real and personal property of the Institution, when the 
deputation left, March 22d, 1839, was estimated at about 65,000 dollars, 
or £13,000; consisting of land, college and other buildings, a small 
library, agricultural implements, cows, &c. 

6. The number of its officers, and the amount of their salaries ? 
Answer. — There are twelve Trustees or Directors, who perform all 

their arduous duties gratuitously. 

There are twelve Professors, and fourteen Assistant Teachers, for 
whose support there is not yet secured any regular income. These 
Professors and Teachers, possessed of talents and acquirements which 
would secure to them, in other situations, a liberal salary, cheerfully 
remain at their posts, in love to the great and good work there begun, 
and procuring much of their support by the labour of their own hands. 

7. The expenses of managing the Institution ? 

Answer. — The work done in the whole progress of this institution has 
been, to such an extent, the result of gratuitous labour, that we have 
not the data whereon we can found an estimate of the cost of its opera- 
tions. The work began about five years since, in a dense forest,— a 
retirement which has been its safeguard against popular violence. The 
Institution now contains above four hundred students. To meet the 



xiv AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 

exigencies of the times, and the wants of the despised race, to whose 
service they have especially devoted themselves, nearly three hundred 
of the students, some having completed their course of study, and others 
having gone through only a part, have left the Oberlin, to labour as 
teachers, lecturers, and otherwise. The influence of the Oberlin has 
thus been powerful and happy, while the expenditure of time, talents, 
and money has been great.* 

8. The presumed benefits arising to individuals and the public ? 

Answer. — The same results are realized at the Oberlin Institute 
which proceed from other well-conducted collegiate establishments ; — 
viz. the benefits of a good education. But it has, besides this, a specific 
character, and a definite and noble object. 

It is a Manual Labour School. Each student is required to work 
three hours each day. This exercise results in improved and confirmed 
health, the strengthening of the physical faculties, industry, energetic 
habits, good morals and economy in the students. 

Amidst reproach and opposition, the Oberlin has stood prominent 
for its Christian firmness, self-denial, and devotion to the principles 
acknowledged in the abstract by all, but acted upon, in every-day life, 
by too few. It is the repository from which the essential materials may 
be derived for the great moral contest now fierce in the United States, 
between the claims of mercenary violence on the one hand, and of 
depressed human rights on the other. The sufferers, formerly heard only 
by their stifled groans, are now listened to through their advocates ; and 
the Oberlin stands forth as the faithful monitor of the slave-holding 
body. The strong hope of the abolitionists, and the strong fear of the 
slave-holder is that the Oberlin may flourish. Its present benefits are 
beyond those wrought by any other American institution whatever ; and 
those which are in prospect are commensurate with the importance of 
the destruction of slavery, with all its evil influences over the two races 
of tyrants and of slaves. 

* While the Abolitionists of the United Staes have nurtured the Oberlin, they 
have also been called to very heavy appropriations of time and money to the general 
cause of Emancipation. Some idea of their liabilities may be formed from the His- 
torical Sketch which follows : but a few facts may be added here. An entirely new 
public sentiment respecting Slavery was to be formed : an Anti-slavery literature was 
to be created. The success has been cheering, though, to the ardent, it appears pain- 
fully slow. They have procured the organization of 1(J50 Anti-slavery Societies 

They publish nine weekly, and one fortnightly paper ; and four monthly Journals, 
all of' which are conducted with ability and success. During the year ending May, 
1839, they issued from the press 38,409 Circulars and prints ; 19,950 bound volumes ; 
1,000,000 Tracts; and 210,639 Pamphlets. There are besides, expenses for the 
salaries of agents, for the conduct of occasional prosecutions in favour of fugitives, and 
various other operations. The outlay in money and in other ways for the past year 
does not fall short of £30,000, — a sum small in proportion to the wants of the cause, 
though enormous, when it is considered that it is contributed by a persecuted class, 
perf.ecuted to the peril of the lives of some, to the ruin of the fortunes id' many, and to 
the pecuniary injury of all. 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. XV 

The case of the Oberlin Institute being now before us, the next 
consideration is, of its claims to British aid. We conceive these to 
be so strong that a brief mention of them will be sufficient. 

We gave the Americans slavery. The slavery of the United States 
is a British institution. The opportunity being presented to us, we are, 
in principle, as much bound to aid in its abolition wherever we esta- 
blished it, as in those colonies which still belong to us. 

If it be asked why the Americans cannot themselves do it, we refer to 
the following history to show that, with time, they will annihilate 
slavery within their borders ; but at an expense of toil, privation, and 
suffering, in which we are morally bound to take our share. It is too 
much the custom now in England to speak with contempt and disgust 
of the Americans on account of their institution of slavery. Our own 
virtue on that head is so young, that our tone of pride is unbecoming, 
and in making our censure so general, we are unjust. The United 
States are the birth-place of a far nobler abolition spirit than we 
have ever yet had to boast of; since the cause requires (on any soil 
where slavery actually exists) a more patient heroism, a more strenuous 
martyr-spirit, than those friends of the slave can ever be called upon to 
show who are separated from the slave-holders by the breadth of the 
ocean. From the time that the story of the American abolitionists 
becomes known, it stands forth as an unquestionable fact that slavery 
was imposed upon the United States, while their abolitionism is indi- 
genous. 

The American supporters of the Oberlin declare that it is with reluc- 
tance and humiliation that they appeal to us for aid. We do not wonder 
at their national feelings being thus wounded : but it is for us to remember 
that they have a right to make this appeal. Much might be said of what 
we owe them for the charity of their country towards hundreds of thou- 
sands of our countrymen and women whom they are perpetually welcom- 
ing to their shores. Of this never-failing and absolutely unbounded charity 
we hear little or nothing in England ; but eye-witnesses can tell that 
these emigrants are, — not merely received because their coming cannot 
be helped,— but welcomed, protected and assisted by regular agencies, 
established for their benefit, and conducted at great expense. Much 
might be said of this ; but a yet nearer consideration is, that we are 
under direct obligations to the Oberlin Institute for the education of our 
fellow-subjects of colour in the West Indies and in Canada. The Oberlin 
is situated about eleven miles from Lake Erie, and therefore but a short 
way from the landing-places of fugitive slaves on our free shores, and 
from the settlements of the coloured population of Canada, amounting to 
above 10,000 persons. Twenty members of the Oberlin are now at work 
among these settlers, our fellow-subjects. These missionaries are toiling 
for us, without our request or recognition, without endowment, salary, 
or prospect of fee or reward. Their stimulus is in the needs of the 
coloured race, and especially in the eagerness of these escaped fugitives 
for knowledge and independence. " Where they have the means/' 
writes one of these missionaries, (Hiram Wilson) "of doing something, 
as is generally the case, towards boarding the teachers, and furnishing, 
in part, his or her wages, I think it proper to impress upon their minds 



XVI AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 

their obligations to do all for themselves that they reasonably can. This 
course I have invariably pursued with cheering results. Were the 
coloured people wanting in ardent desire for instruction, and a noble 
spirit of self-application to science and industry, I should conclude, 
either that they were less than human, or that slavery had done its per- 
fect work, and despair of doing them much good : but I can cheerfully 
testify that facts in their case are far otherwise. They need only en- 
couragement to bring them forward, and prepare them for respectability 
and usefulness. Like the infant child that begins to walk, they should 
be strengthened and led in the most tender and affectionate manner, yet 
so as to depend mainly on their own strength. It should be borne in 
mind, however, that, with few exceptions, they come into this country 
miserably poor ; consequently, they labour for a long time to great disad- 
vantage ; especially those who have families to support." 

If we feel any thankfulness towards the devoted American men and 
women who offer a welcome to fugitives on our shores, and who train 
them in the principles and habits of virtuous citizenship, now is the 
time to make our acknowledgments. A singularly appropriate occasion 
now offers itself in an appeal from the institution which has sent forth 
these our benefactors. 

Another reason why we should lend aid to the Oberlin is, that a sub- 
stantial testimony in favour of emancipation from this country would do 
more to dignify the cause in the eyes of the slave-holders than any other 
action upon the question whatever. The Americans are accustomed to 
say that the voice of Europe is to them somewhat like the voice of pos- 
terity, reaching them, calm and authoritative, over the expanse of the 
ocean, as it might from some distant reach of the stream of time. Ac- 
cordingly, while the multitude neglects or ridicules the sublime move- 
ments which are working in the bosom of their own society, the whole 
question presents a different aspect to them when sent back to them, as 
news from our periodicals. We know this to have been the case with 
several particulars of the following historical sketch, and remarkably so 
with the speech of Lovejoy (p. 35). American citizens, of generally 
just and kind habits of feeling, saw this speech in their own newspapers, 
and either passed it over, or despised it. Meeting with it in the pages of 
the London and Westminster Review, they declared that in all the records 
of human speech there exists no address more heart-moving and soul- 
stirring. It may thus be imagined what is likely to be the effect on this 
multitude of our reflecting back to them that which ought to be their 
own public sentiment. Every voice from our corporations, our pulpits, 
our newspapers, will be to them the voice of prophecy. Every hundred 
pounds sent over from this country will be as the writing on the wall 
to the southern legislatures, warning them that their unrighteous 
dominion over their fellow-men is about to pass away. When the first 
instalment (£600) of English contributions reached the Oberlin, this 
last autumn, the members were overcome with joy and thankfulness. 
They wept together, as their hearts grew strong under our sympathy. 
The same news, told in a southern legislature, would have the opposite 
effect. Some might be angry, some might be filled with doubt, others 



THE OBEIILIN INSTITUTE. XV11 

with fear; and yet a few others, silently suffering under the system 
against which they dare not openly protest, secretly transmitting funds to 
the abolitionists whose names they dare not breathe in the streets, might 
inwardly rejoice in the tidings ; but all would alike see, in the substan- 
tial testimony of the sympathy of this country with the abolitionists of 
theirs, the doom of their institution of slavery, with all its restrictive 
operation upon the liberty of the whites of the republic. 

Some persons in this country, we have heard, hesitate to do as they 
would on behalf of the abolitionists, from a fear that to do so, would be 
to fly in the face of the American government. A mere glance at the 
constitution of the United States would obviate such fear, The subject 
of slavery is never once mentioned in the constitution of the United 
States, and only twice remotely alluded to: and then not as an institu- 
tion. The General Government has no concern whatever with it, and is 
no more affected by support being given to the Oberlin than our govern- 
ment would be by subscriptions to the proprietory schools of Birming- 
ham and Hull. Again, in the United States, the people are the govern- 
ment. Action for the people, is action in favour of the government. 
Win over, or aid the people to feel and do what is right, and you 
win over and aid the government. Sympathise with any portion of 
them, and in proportion to that number will this sympathy re-appear in 
their national councils, that is, in their government. It is not with them 
as with us, that there is a permanent ruling interest, distinguished from, 
though modified in its acts by the separate interest of the ruled. The 
government and the governed are, with them, one and the same. 

This is the case with the State, as well as the General Government. 
The opinion of the majority prevails; and to strengthen the best part of 
public opinion is to serve and aid the best part of the State Government. 
For instance, it is to be argued, this session, in the legislature of Ohio, 
(the state in which the Oberlin is established,) how the free people of 
i-olour are to be treated. The state has to settle this matter for itself, 
the General Government having nothing whatever to do with it. Accord- 
ing to the existing law, any citizen who furnishes food and assistance to 
a person of colour, being a fugitive, becomes liable to a fine of 500 
dollars, and to an imprisonment not exceeding three months. This Jaw 
is so opposed to the opinions and feelings of a large number of the in- 
habitants of Ohio, that they are strenuously exerting themselves to get 
it repealed. As soon as the majority of the citizens desire to treat the 
negro or mulatto as a man and a brother, the law will be repealed, whether 
during the present session, or the next, or the one after. If, by our aid, 
we enable the Oberlin to add the influence of its principles, its learning 
and its numbers to the right side, we are not opposing any administra- 
tion, or tampering with any institution, but only strengthening the voice 
of a principle, which will finally stand or fall only as it is righteous or 
otherwise. 

We have thought it worth while to give this explanation, because the 
unfounded apprehension we have specified has been believed to stay the 
hand of some well-wishers to the Oberlin. 

With us, however, there is, we acknowledge, a reason more powerful 



XVlii AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF 

than any we have stated, why we should yield our best aid to the Ame- 
rican abolitionists. They are the confessors and martyrs of our age of 
4he world ; the principles for which they make their stand are for all 
time, irrespective of country, and of the particular forms of Society 
therein : and the duty and privilege of men, in every part of the world, 
is to strengthen this stand for principles, let it happen where it may, and 
for whatsoever cause. Some have suffered and died for truth and love 
on the advent of Christianity ; some for the sake of Protestantism ; some 
for the honour and safety of their respective countries. In every age, 
there have been some who have had faith to suffer and die for the right. 
In our age, it is the American abolitionists who have most eminently 
lived by this faith. The humble duty and privilege are offered to us of 
strengthening and cheering them under trials which we are not ourselves 
called upon to endure. If we do not now see that this is our duty and 
privilege, and act accordingly, the time will come when, too late, our 
case will be clear to our own eyes. Slavery will pass away, whither the 
feasts of Jupiter, and the shrines of Diana, and the smoke of Smithfield 
fires, and the trophies of warlike monarchs have gone ; but the princi- 
ples for which the Christian, the Protestant, the patriot and the phi- 
lanthropist, have suffered and died, will live while God and Duty 
exist. In one form or another, these principles are for ever giving out 
their sentence, for or against every human being who has lived in 
the knowledge of them. No power can hush their everlasting voice. 
The axe may be no more heard in the forests of the Oberlin, nor the 
murmur of speech from within its walls : the roar of the neighbouring 
Niagara may die away, and the ocean itself be stilled ; but the utterance 
of principles will yet be heard, approving or condemning every one 
who, in view of the faithful of his age, was with them or against them. 
If there be any who honestly doubt the fidelity of the American aboli- 
tionists to these everlasting principles, — if there be any who doubt 
whether theirs is the gentle heroism and the pure disinterestedness of the 
wisdom that is from above, — let such enquire and satisfy themselves. 
But on those who are already convinced that the cause is just, and its 
agents sincere, the abolitionists of America have a claim, as strong as 
that of conscience itself, for the sympathy and help of their hearts and 

hands. >..,... 

Of many testimonies from well-known advocates ol social justice m 
this country, we subjoin one, feeling that the cause will be alike strength- 
ened and adorned by the honour of his name. 

To William Dawes. 

Playford Hall, Oct. 14, 1339. 
My Respected Friend, 

I am very sorry that, in consequence of my 
having passed several sleepless nights, I was not able to enter so full}' as I could 
have wished, into the object of your mission to this country, when you did me 
the honour of calling upon me. - 

It is a matter of great pleasure to have had from you an account ot the 
Oberlin Establishment. I cannot but take a deep interest in its welfare, seeing 
how many desirable objects it combines, and how well calculated it is, but parti- 
cularly at this moment, to meet prejudices, and to oppose the efforts of interested 



THE OBERLIN INSTITUTE. XIX 

men, who set themselves up, in defiance of the laws of God, to trample under foot 
human liberty, and to reduce man, to whom the powers of intellect were given, 
to the situation of the brute. I know not to what degraded state your unhappy 
country will be brought, unless a stop be put to slavery. Will you continue 
long, unless you change your measures, to be reckoned among the civilized 
nations of the earth ? To be familiar with the sound of injustice daily in your 
ears, and to lend no helping hand, must produce in time a taint or corruption 
which must injure the moral character. Has not this corruption already begun ? 
Has it not proceeded from blacks to whites ? From a systematic familiarity 
with oppression, have not your rulers begun to oppress you, their fellow subjects'? 
You are forbidden to speak, you are forbidden to write, and even to petition on 
this subject. Where is this the case but in the most despotic countries ? Surely 
it could never have been foreseen, that this would ever have been the case in the 
United States. It becomes you, therefore, to do all you can to wipe away this 
stain from your country, and I rejoice, therefore, to hear that the Oberlin 
Society has risen up, and that it has had the courage to rise up, under such cir- 
cumstances, amidst the growing darkness and immorality, spreading over your 
once happy land, to meet the evil in question. 

I heard with pleasure that the Corporation of the City of London received the 
petition on behalf of the Oberlin Establishment with so much courtesy. I can- 
not doubt of their doing something liberally and handsomely towards promoting 
the object of it. But after all, it is not so much what they give, as the high sanction 
of their example. 

This ought to be justly estimated in the United States : and it is to be the 
more appreciated when it is considered that men of different religious denomi- 
nations, and of different political parties are assembled to receive the petition. — 
It is highly creditable to this Corporation, that they should have listened to the 
petition of American Abolitionists, whom we are unfortunately obliged to consi- 
der as aliens in point of country, though they sprang from ourselves. Their 
motive could only have been a real compassion for the distressed. I trust that 
God, in his providence, is opening a way, through the Oberlin Society, or that 
he will open a way, for the relief of the oppressed of our fellow creatures, who 
are the subject of this letter. 

Your's truly, 

Thomas Clarkson. 



HABTTB AGE 



OF 



(From the London and Westminster Review, 
December, 1838.) 



Art. I. — 1. Right and Wrong in Boston in 1835. Boston, U. S. : Isaac 

Knapp. 
2. — Right and Wrong in Boston in 1836. Boston, U. S. ; Isaac Knapp. 
3. — Right and Wrong in Boston in 1837. Boston, U. S. ; Isaac Knapp. 

There is a remarkable set of people now living and vigorously acting 
in the world, with a consonance of will and understanding which has 
perhaps never before been witnessed among so large a number of indi- 
viduals of such diversified powers, habits, opinions, tastes, and circum- 
stances. The body comprehends men and women of every shade of 
colour, of every degree of education, of every variety of religious opinion, 
of every gradation of rank, bound together by no vow, no pledge, no 
stipulation, but each preserving his individual liberty; and yet they 
act as if they were of one heart and of one soul. Such union could be 
secured by no principle of worldly interest; nor, for a term of years, by 
the most stringent fanaticism. A well-grounded faith, directed towards 
a noble object, is the only principle which can account for such a spec- 
tacle as the world is now waking up to contemplate in the abolitionists 
of the United States. 

Before we fix our attention on the history of the body, it may be re- 
marked that it is a totally different thing to be an abolitionist on a soil 
actually trodden by slaves, and in a far-off country, where opinion is 
already on the side of emancipation, or ready to be converted ; where 
only a fraction of society, instead of the whole, has to be convicted of 
guilt ; and where no interests are put in jeopardy but pecuniary ones, 
and those limited and remote. Great honour is due to the first movers 
in the anti-slavery cause in every land : but those of European coun- 
tries may take rank with the philanthropists of America who may 

B 



2 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

espouse the cause of the aborigines : while the primary abolitionists of 
the United States have encountered, with steady purpose, such opposi- 
tion as might here await assailants of the whole set of aristocratic insti- 
tutions at once, from the throne to pauper apprenticeship. Slavery is 
as thoroughly interwoven with American institutions — ramifies as ex- 
tensively through American society — as the aristocratic spirit pervades 
Great Britain. The fate of Reformers whose lives are devoted to mak- 
ing war upon either the one or the other must be remarkable. 

Ten years since, there was external quiet on the subject of 
slavery in the United States. Nearly a century ago, the first American 
Quaker who bore faithful testimony against the sin of slavery was, 
in consequence, cut off from religious fellowship with her society. 
She lived in a flourishing district of Virginia, where seven meetings of 
Friends existed. On her death-bed, this woman sent for the committee 
who had dealt with her, and told them that now, when in view of the 
two worlds, she saw more clearly than ever the issues of slavery, Point- 
ing to the fertile and beautiful country which lay stretched before her 
window, she said, " Friends, the time will come when there will not be 
Friends enough in all this district to hold one meeting for worship, and 
this garden will be turned into a wilderness." 

Some of her contemporaries lived to witness the extinction of the seven 
Societies of Friends, and the utter desolation of the tract. Such indivi- 
dual protests took place : Jefferson and other great men had prophecied 
national peril from it : a few legislators had talked of doing something to 
ameliorate the "condition of society" in their respective States; the in- 
stitution had been abolished in some of the northern States, where the 
number of negroes was small, and the work of emancipation easy and 
obviously desirable : an insurrection broke out occasionally, in one place 
or another ; and certain sections of society were in a state of perplexity 
or alarm at the talents, or the demeanour, or the increase of numbers of 
the free blacks. But no such thing had been heard of as a comprehen- 
sive and strenuously active objection to the whole system, wherever 
established. The surface of society was heaving; but no one surge had 
broken into voice, prophetic of that chorus of many waters in which the 
doom of the institution may now be heard. Yet clear-sighted persons 
saw that some great change must take place ere long ; for a scheme was 
under trial for removing the obnoxious part of the negro population to 
Africa. Those of the dusk}'- race who were too clever, and those who 
were too stupid, to be safe or useful at home, were to be exported ; and 
slave-owneis who had scruples about holding man as property might, 
by sending their slaves away over the sea, relieve their consciences, 
without annoying their neighbours. Such was the state of affairs, pre- 
vious to 1829. 

The Colonization Society originated abolitionism. It acted in two 
ways. It exasperated the free blacks by the prospect of exile, and it 
en^a^ed the attention of those who hated slavery, though the excitement 
it afforded to their hopes was illusory. Its action in both ways became 
manifest in the year 1829. In the spring of this year the stir began at 
Cincinnati, where a strenuous effort was made to induce the white in- 
habitants to drive away the free coloured people, by putting in force 



COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 3 

against them Hie atrocious state laws, which placed them in a condition 
of civil disability, and providing at the same time the means of tran- 
sportation to Africa. The. coloured people held a meeting, petitioned 
the authorities for leave to remain in their present condition for sixty 
days, and dispatched a committee to Canada, to see whether provision 
could be made for their residence there. The sixty days expired before 
the committee returned : the populace of Cincinnati rose upon the 
coloured people, and compelled them to barricade themselves in their 
houses, in assailing which, during three days and nights, several lives 
were lost. Sir James Colebrook, Governor of Upper Canada, charged 
the committee with the following message :— " Tell the Republicans on 
your side of the line, that we do not know men by their colour. If you 
come to us, you will be entitled to all the privileges of the rest of his 
Majesty's subjects." In consequence of this welcome message, the 
greater part of the proscribed citizens removed to Canada, and formed 
the Wilberforce settlement. The few who remained behind were op- 
pressed to the utmost degree that the iniquitous laws against them 
could be made to sanction. This was not a transaction which could 
be kept a secret. Meetings were held by the free blacks of all the prin- 
cipal towns north of the Carolinas, and resolutions passed expressive of 
their abhorrence of the Colonization Society. The resolutions passed 
at the Philadelphia meeting are a fair sample of the opinions of the 
class : — 

" Resolved, — That we view with deep abhorrence the unmerited stigma at- 
tempted to be cast upon the reputation of the free people of colour by the 
promoters of this measure, ' that they are a dangerous and useless part of the 
community,' when, in the state of disfranchisement in which they live, in the 
hour of danger they ceased to remember their wrongs, and rallied round the 
standard of their country. 

" Resolved, — That we never will separate ourselves voluntarily from the slave 
population in this country: they are our brethren by the ties of consanguinity, 
of suffering, and of wrong: and we feel that there is more virtue in suffering 
privations with them than in fancied advantages for a season." 

Such was one mode of operation of the Colonization Society. The 
other was upon the minds of individuals of the privileged colour who 
had the spirit of abolitionism in them, without having yet learned how 
to direct it. Of these the chief, the heroic printer's lad, the master-mind 
of this great revolution, was then lying in prison, undergoing his baptism 
into the cause. 

William Lloyd Garrison is one of God's nobility — the head of the 
moral aristocracy whose prerogatives we are contemplating. It is not 
only that he is invulnerable to injury — that he early got the world under 
his feet, in a way which it would have made Zeno stroke his beard with 
complacency to witness, but that in his meekness, his sympathies, his 
self-i'orgetfulness, he appears " covered all over with the stars and 
orders" of the spiritual realm whence he derives his dignities and his 
powers. At present he is a marked man wherever he turns. The faces 
of his friends brighten when his step is heard : the people of colour almost 
kneel to him ; and the rest of society jeers, pelts, and execrates him. 
Amidst all this, his gladsome life rolls on, "too busy to be anxious, and 



4- THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

too loving to be sad." He springs from bis bed singing at sunrise ; 
and if, during the day, tears should cloud his serenity, they are never 
shed for himself. His countenance of steady compassion gives hope to 
the oppressed, who look to him as the Jews looked to Moses. It was 
this serene countenance, saint-like in its earnestness and purity, that a 
man bought at a print-shop, where it was exposed without a name, and 
hung up as the most apostolic face he ever saw. It does not alter the 
case that the man took it out of the frame and hid it when he found 
that it was Garrison who had been adorning his parlour. As for his 
own persecutors, Garrison sees in them the creatures of unfavourable 
circumstances. He early satisfied himself that " a rotten egg cannot 
hit truth ;" and then the whole matter was settled. Such is his case 
now. In 1829, it was very different. He was an obscure lad, gaining 
some superficial improvement in a country college, when tidings of the 
Colonization scheme reached him, and filled him with hope for the 
coloured race. He resolved to devote himself to the cause, and went 
down to Baltimore to learn such facts as would enable him to lecture on 
the subject. The fallacies of the plan melted before his gaze, while the 
true principle became so apparent as to decide his mission. While this 
process was going on, he got into his first trouble. A Mr Todd, a New 
England merchant, freighted a vessel with slaves for the New Orleans 
market, in the interval of his annual thanksgivings to God that the soil 
of his State was untrodden by the foot of a slave. Garrison said what 
he thought of the transaction in a newspaper ; was tried for libel, and 
committed to prison till he cpuld pay the imposed fine of a thousand 
dollars — a sum which might have been a million for any ability, he had 
to pay it. Some record of what was his state of mind at this time was 
left on his prison wall : — 

" I boast no courage on the battle field, 

Where hostile troops imraix in horrid fray ; 
For love or fame I can no weapon wield, 

With burning lust an enemy to slay. 
But test my spirit at the blazing stake, 

For advocacy of the rights of Man 
And Truth — or on the wheel my body break ; 

Let Persecution place me 'neath its ban ; 
Insult, defame, proscribe my humble name ; 

Yea, put the dagger at my naked breast ; 
If I recoil in terror from the flame — 

Or recreant prove when peril rears its crest, 
To save a limb, or shun the public scorn — 
Then write me down for aye — weakest of woman f)on^. ,, 

W. L. G. 

The imprisonment of an honest man for such a cause was an occasion 
for the outbreak of discontent with slavery on all hands. " I was in 
danger," says Garrison, " of being lifted up beyond measure, even in 
prison, by excessive panegyric and extraordinary sympathy." He was 
freed by the generosity of an entire stranger, Mr. Arthur Tappan, a 
wealthy merchant of New York, whose entire conduct on the question 
has been in accordance with the act of paying Garrison's fine. 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 5 

Garrison's lectures were now upon abolition, not colonization. He 
was listened to with much interest in New York; but at Boston he 
could obtain no place to lecture in ; and it was not till it was clear that 
he intended to collect an audience on the Common, in the midst of the 
city, that a door was opened to him. He obtained a lew coadjutors, — 
for one, a simple-minded clergyman, Mr. May, who on the next Sunday 
prayed for slaves, among other distressed persons, and was asked, on 
coming- down from the pulpit, whether he was mad ? Another of these 
coadjutors, William Goodell, said, in 1836, " My mind runs back to 
nearly seven years ago, when I used to walk with Garrison across yonder 
Common, and to converse on the great enterprise for which we are now 
met. The work then was all future. It existed only in the ardent 
prayer and the fixed resolves." It was wrought out by prompt and 
strenuous action. Garrison and his friend Knapp, a printer, were ere 
long living in a garret, on bread and water, expending all their spare 
earnings and time on the publication of the ' Liberator,' now a hand- 
some and flourishing newspaper ; then a small shabby sheet, printed 
with old types. "When it sold particularly well," says Knapp, "we 
treated ourselves with a bowl of milk." The venerable first number, 
dated January 1st, 1831, lies before us in its primitive shabbiness ; and 
on its first page, in Garrison's « Address to the Public,' we see proof 
that the vehemence of language, which has often been ascribed to per- 
sonal resentment (but by none who know him), has been from the be- 
ginning a matter of conscience with him. "I am aware," he says, 
"that many object to the severity of my language, but is there not cause 
for severity ? I will be as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as 
justice. I am in earnest — I will not equivocate — I will not excuse — I 
will not retreat a single inch — and I will be heard. The apathy of 
the people is enough to make every statue leap from its pedestal, and to 
hasten the resurrection of the dead. It is pretended that I am retarding 
the cause of emancipation by the coarseness of my invective, and the 
precipitancy of my measures. The charge is not true. On this ques- 
tion my influence, humble as it is, is felt at this moment to a consider- 
able extent, and shall be felt in coming years — not perniciously, but be- 
neficially ; not as a curse, but as a blessing ; and posterity will bear 
testimony that I was right. I desire to thank God that he enables me 
to disregard the fear of man, and to speak his truth in its simplicity and 
power. 

The time was ripe for Garrison's exertions. A pamphlet appeared in 
the autumn of 1829, at Boston, from the pen of a man of colour, named 
Walker, which alarmed society not a little. It was an appeal to his 
coloured brethren, to drown their injuries in the blood of their oppressors. 
Its language is perfectly appalling. It ran through several editions 
though no bookseller would publish it. Not long after, the author was 
found dead near his own door ; but whether he had been assassinated 
for his book, or had been killed by an accident, is not known. If the 
slave-owners could but have seen it, Garrison was this man's antago- 
nist, not his coadjutor. Garrison is as strenuous a " peace-man" as 
any member of the society of Friends; and this fact, in conjunction 
with his unlimited influence over the Negro population, is the chief 



6 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. ' 

reason why no blood has been shed, — why no insurrectionary movement 
has taken place in the United States, from the time when his voice began 
to be heard over the broad land till now. Every evil, however, which 
happened, every shiver of the master, every growl of the slave, was 
henceforth to be charged upon Garrison. Some of the Southern States 
offered rewards for the apprehension of any person who might be de- 
tected circulating the 'Liberator/ or 'Walker's Appeal ;' and one legis- 
lature demanded of the Governor of Massachusetts that Garrison should 
be delivered up to them . The fate of Walker was before his eyes ; and 
it came to his ears, that gentlemen in stage coaches said that it was 
everywhere thought that " he would not be permitted to live long ;" 
that he " would be taken away, and no one be the wiser for it." His 
answer, on this and many subsequent occasions, was the same in spirit. 
"Will you aim at no higher victims than Arthur Tappan, George 
Thompson, and W. L. Garrison ? And who and what are they ? 
Three drops from a boundless ocean — three rays from a noon-day sun 
— three particles of dust floating in a limitless atmosphere — nothing, 
substracted from infinite fulness. Should you succeed in destroying 
them, the mighty difficulty still remains." As a noble woman has 
since said, in defence of the individuality of action of the leaders of the 
cause, "It is idle to talk of 'leaders/ In the contest of morals with 
abuses, men are but types of principles. Does any one seriously believe 
that if Mr. Garrison should take an appealing, protesting, backward 
step, abolitionists would fall- back with him ?" The "mighty difficulty" 
would still remain,— and remain as surely doomed as ever, were Garri- 
son to turn recreant or die. 

One more dreadful event was to happen before the " peace-man" 
could make his reprobation of violence heard over the Union. The 
insurrection of slaves in Southampton county, Virginia, in which eighty 
persons were slain — parents with their five, seven, or ten children, being 
massacred in the night — happened in 1832. The affair is wrapped in 
mystery, as are most slave insurrections, both from policy on the part 
of the masters, and from the whites being too impatient to wait the 
regular course of justice, and sacrificing their foes as they could catch 
them. In the present case many Negroes were slaughtered, with every 
refinement of cruelty, on the roads, or in their masters' yards, without 
appeal to judge, jury, or evidence. This kind of management precludes 
any clear knowledge of the causes of the insurrection ; but it is now 
supposed near the spot to have been occasioned by the fanaticism of a 
madman, a Negro, who assured the blacks who came to him for reli- 
gious sympathy that they were to run the course of the ancient Jews — 
slaying and sparing not. We mention this rising because it is the last 
on the part of the people of colour. Free or enslaved, they have since 
been peaceable ; while all succeeding violences have been perpetrated 
by " gentlemen of property and standing." It w"as natural that those 
who had suffered by this slaughter or its conseOjiiences, those who 
mourned large families of relations thus cut off, those who, for the sake 
of their crops, feared the amendment of the system as a result of this 
exhibition of its tendencies, those who, for the sake of their children, 
nightly trembled in their beds, should cast about for an object on whom 



MISS CItANDALL. ' 

to vent their painful feelings; and Garrison was that object. The 
imputation of the insurrection to him was too absurd to be long- 
sustained ; but those who could not urge this against him still remon- 
strated against his "disturbing the harmony and peace of society. 
"Disturbing the slave-holders!" replied he. "I am sorry to disturb 
anybody. But the slave-holders have so many friends 1 i" must be the 
friend of the slaves." t 

On the 2nd of March, 1833, there appeared in the < Liberator , the 
following advertisement: — 

" Prudence Crandall 
'< Principal of the Canterbury (Connecticut) Female Boarding School, returns 
her most sincere thanks to those who have patronized her School, and would 
give information that, on the first Monday of April next, her School will be 
opened for the reception of young Ladies and little Misses of colour, ine 
branches taught are as follows :— Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, English Gram- 
mar, &c." 

The advertisement closed with a long list of references to gentlemen o. 
the highest character. 

The reason of this announcement was, that Miss Crandall, a young 
lady of established reputation in her profession, had been urgently 
requested to undertake the tuition of a child of light colour ; had admit- 
ted her among the white pupils ; had subsequently admitted a second, 
thereby offending the parents of her former pupils; and, on being 
threatened on the one hand with the loss of all her scholars, and urged 
on the other to take more of a dark complexion, had nobly resolved to 
continue to take young ladies of colour, letting the whites depart, ii they 
so pleased. We relate the consequences, because this is, as far as we 
know, the first instance in the struggle of a protracted persecution of a 
peaceable individual by the whole of the society of the district. 

A town-meeting was called on the appearance of the advertisement, 
and the school was denounced in violent terms. Miss Crandall silently 
prosecuted her plan. The legislature was petitioned, through the exer- 
tions of a leading citizen of Canterbury, Mr. Judson, and a law was 
obtained in the course of the month of May, making it a penal offence 
to establish any school for the instruction of coloured persons, not 
inhabitants of the State, or to instruct, board, or harbour persons enter- 
ing the State for educational purposes. This law was clearly uncon- 
stitutional, as it violated that clause in the constitution which gives to 
the citizens of each State all the privileges and immunities of the 
citizens of the several States.* Perceiving this, Miss Crandall took no 
notice, but went on with her school. She was accordingly arrested, and 
carried before a justice of the peace; and the next spectacle that the 
inhabitants of Canterbury saw was Miss Crandall going to jail. She 
was bailed out the next day, and her trial issued in nothing, as the jury 
could not agree. She was again prosecuted, and again ; and at length 



* Laws which are infringements of the constitution are not binding upon the Court 
of Judicature in the last flesort, the Supreme Court of the United States. 



8 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

convicted. She appealed to a higher Court, and struggled on through 
a long persecution till compelled to yield, from the lives of her pupils 
being in danger. Her neighbours pulled down her fences, and filled up 
her well. All the traders in the place refused to deal with her, and she 
was obliged to purchase provisions and clothing from a great distance. 
She and her pupils were refused admission to the churches ; her win- 
dows were repeatedly broken during the night; and, at length, the 
attacks upon her house became so alarming, and the menaces to her 
pupils on their way to school so violent, that their parents were com- 
pelled to hide the children in their own houses, and Miss Crandall 
retired from the place. Her conduct was to the last degree meek and 
quiet ; nothing need be said about its courage. 

By this time the abolition cause was supported by 26 periodicals, 
circulating from Maine to Virginia and Indiana. Some excellent 
individuals had done the brave deed of publishing books in aid of the 
same cause. Among these was Mrs. Child, a lady of whom society 
was exceedingly proud before she published her ' Appeal,' and to whom 
society has been extremely contemptuous since. Her works were 
bought with avidity before, but fell into sudden oblivion as soon as she 
had done a greater deed than writing any or all of them. Her noble- 
minded husband lost his legal practice, sound and respected as were his 
talents, from affording his counsel to citizens of colour. A circumstance 
which we happen to know respecting this gentleman and lady illustrates 
well the state of feeling on the great question in the different classes of 
minds at the time. Mr. Child was professionally consulted by a gen- 
tleman of colour. The client and his lady visited Mr. Child at his 
residence at Boston one afternoon, and staid beyond the. family tea-hour. 
Mrs. Child at length ordered up tea ; but before it could be poured out 
the visitors took their leave, not choosing to subject Mr. and Mrs. Child 
to the imputation of sitting at table with people of colour. Boston soon 
rang with the report that Mr: and Mrs. Child had given an entertain- 
ment to coloured people. Some aristocratic ladies, seated in one of the 
handsomest drawing-rooms in Boston, were one day canvassing this 
and other abolition affairs, while. Dr. Channing appeared absorbed in a 
newspaper by the fireside. The ladies repeated tale after tale, each 
about as true as the one they began with, and greeted with loud laughter 
every attempt of one of the party to correct their mistakes about the 
ladies who were then under persecution, and in peril for the cause. At 
length Dr. Channing turned his head, and produced a dead silence by 
observing, in the sternest tone of his thrilling voice, " The time will 
come when those ladies will find their proper place ; and the time will 
come when the laughers will find their proper place." This happened, 
however, not in 1833, but when the persecution of the women had risen 
to its height. 

By this time the degraded free blacks began to hold up their heads : 
and they entered upon a new course of action, — setting out upon a 
principle of hope instead of despair. As they found the doors of 
schools shut against them, they formed associations for mutual im- 
provement. The best minds among them sent forth urgent entreaties 
to the rest to labour at the work of education, pleading that the nearer 



FIRST ANTI-SLA.VERY CONVENTION. 9 

the prospect of an improved social condition, the more pressing- became 
the necessity of strengthening- and enriching their minds for their new- 
responsibilities. It was a glad day for them when they saw the assem- 
blage in Convention at Philadelphia of anti-slavery delegates from ten 
States out of the twenty-four of which the Union was at that time con- 
stituted. These ten States were the six which compose New England, 
and New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. Some State 
Associations were already organised : the National one organised by 
this Convention bears date December, 1833. There might be seen 
Garrison, just returned from England, refreshed by sympathy and ex- 
hilarated by hope. There was May, the mild gentleman, the liberal 
clergyman, who unconsciously secures courtesy from the most con- 
temptuous of the foe, when nothing but insult was designed. There 
was Lewis Tappan, the grave Presbyterian, against whom violence was 
even then brewing, and who was soon to be. despoiled of his property 
by the firebrands of a mob. These, and many others, put their signa- 
tures to a Declaration, of which we subjoin the concluding passage : 

" Submitting this Declaration to the candid consideration of the people of 
this country, and of the friends of liberty throughout the world, we hereby affix 
our signatures to it ; pledging ourselves that, under the guidance and by the 
help of Almighty God, we will do all that in us lies, consistently with this 
Declaration of our principles, to overthrow the most execrable system of slavery 
that has ever been witnessed upon earth — to deliver our land from its deadliest 
curse — to wipe out the foulest stain which rests upon our national escutcheon — 
and to secure to the coloured population of the United States all the rights and 
privileges which belong to them as men, and as Americans, — come what may to 
our persons, our interests, or our reputations— whether we live to witness the 
triumph of Liberty, Justice, and Humanity, or perish untimely as martyrs in this 
great, benevolent, and holy cause." 

This was the first General Convention of Men held for this object. Of 
another First Convention we shall have occasion to speak hereafter. 

The next year (1834) was a stirring year. The " Young Men" of 
the large cities began to associate themselves for the cause. " Those of 
New York pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honour, 
(in the language and spirit of the Declaration of Independence,) to 
overthrow slavery by moral assault, or die in the attempt. The most 
remarkable accession of young men to the cause was, however, from Lane 
Seminary, Cincinnati, — a Presbyterian college of high reputation, with 
the eminent Dr. Beecher to preside over it. 

The students, most of whom were above one-and-twenty, and fifty of 
whom were above five-and-twenty years of age, discussed the abolition 
and colonization questions for eighteen evenings, and decided unani- 
mously in favour of the former. The consequences of this decision no 
one will presume to calculate. Out of it has arisen the Oberlin 
Institute, with the long train of benefits which have ensued, and will 
ensue, to freedom of thought, speech, and action, among the more privi- 
leged class of American citizens ; to the education of the coloured race, 
in and out of the United States ; and to the strengthening of the true 
principles of religion, in a community corrupted by the spirit of caste, 



10 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

and the passion for gain. The story is as follows. We give it partly 
in our own words, (for the sake of brevity) and partly in extracts from 
the " Statement of Reasons" put forth by the forty young men who 
withdrew from Lane Seminary, at this crisis of its principles and prac- 
tice. 

" The circumstances of our matriculation," they say, "were peculiarly im- 
pressive. We were connected with an institution freighted with the spiritual 
interests of the West. We were numerous, without a precedent, in the begin- 
nings of similar institutions. The Great Valley of the West was our expected 
field ; and we assembled here that we might the more accurately learn its cha- 
racter, catch the spirit of its gigantic enterprize, grow up into its genius, appre- 
ciate its peculiar wants, and thus be qualified, by practical skill, no less than by 
Theological erudition, to wield the weapons of truth. But the responsibility of 
the post we providentially held, as the first class in a Theological Seminary, out- 
weighed all other considerations, in our estimate of duty. The friends of the 
new institution expected of us that we should be letters of commendation to 
the Western churches, and that our scholarship, piety, and practical usefulness 
would be the earnests of its future success. Our probable influence over suc- 
ceeding classes, was also matter of deep solicitude We aimed 

therefore, to make such a disposal of our influence as would contribute to place 
Lane Seminary upon high moral ground, and thus greatly elevate the standard 
and augment the resources of ministerial efficiency. 

" As a primary step, we were led to adopt this principle, that free discussion, 
with correspondent effort, is « Duty, and, of course, a Right. 

'' We proceeded upon this principle, without molestation, in our studies, at 
our recitations and lectures. 

" We applied it to missions, at home and abroad; and we acted immediately, 
through liberal contributions. We took up Temperance. Discussion, was 
needless ; duty was plain, and we acted. With the Sunday School cause, we 
proceeded in like manner. Next Moral Reform came up. We examined it, in 
a series of adjourned meetings; light was elicited, principles were fixed, and 
action followed. y 

" With the same spirit of free enquiry, we' discussed the question of slaver}-. 
We prayed much, heard facts, weighed arguments, kept cur temper; and, after 
the most patient pondering, in which we were sustained by the spirit of sym- 
pathy, not of anger, we decided that slavery was a sin, and as such, ought to be 
immediately renounced. In this case, too, we acted." 

A large number of these students were sons or brothers of slave- 
holders. Ohio borders on two Slave States ; and Lane Seminary looked 
for a large measure of its resources to that portion of American Society 
with which slavery was incorporated. Freely, therefore, as the students 
were permitted to act on every other moral question, this, of slavery, must 
be interdicted as dangerous. The Faculty forbade discussion and associa- 
tion on the question, from the moment the students began to employ their 
leisure //ours in establishing Sunday schools, lyceums, and circulating 
libraries, among the free coloured population of Cincinnati, while the 
body of the Trustees and Professors were acting as partizans of the Coloni- 
zation Society. While tvventy-one out of the twenty-five of the Trus- 
tees were members of the Colonization Society, and the President and 
his brother Professors were making colonization speeches, which were 
circulated in the newspapers, they framed a set of laws repressive of 
speech and action on this subject among the students j and conferred an 



LANE SEMINARY. 11 

irresponsible power of expulsion on the Executive Committee. Though 
the new laws were aimed only at one subject, the students perceived that 
"they had driven the plough-share over the whole field of enquiry." 
There was no step left for the conscientious but to withdraw. They 
withdrew. Out of forty theological students, only two returned the next 
term : and of classical students, only five out of sixty. They withdrew, 
not with the tumult of spirits, and the head-strong self-will of unruly 
boys; but with the sobriety of thoughtful men, well aware of what they 
were doing; with the regrets of devoted students, forced away from the 
seat of learning, to do they knew not what, and go they knew not whither. 
They could not go home, — those of them who came from Slave States 
— for their lives would not have been safe. From the same circumstance 
of origin, their means were cut off. It is strange that the Trustees and 
Faculty of Lane Seminary did not foresee some of the consequences of 
their act. These young men went forth into the world with the hio-hest 
characters. Dr. Beecher's (the President's) written words at this time 
were, " The students are a set of noble men, whom I would not, at a 
venture, exchange for any others." The Faculty gave repeated assur- 
ances, up to the last moment, that the demeanour of the students was, 
without exception, respectful ; and their conduct strictly lawful and 
orderly ; and they granted certificates of the regular standing of each, on 
the withdrawal of the body. There had been no wrangling, no misun- 
derstanding; and no censure could therefore attach to the character of 
the students. Their tenfper may be judged of by a passage of their 
farewell. "We leave Lane Seminary with sentiments of grateful affec- 
tion for the advantages which, during our membership, it so laro-ely 
afforded us ; and, apart from the grief we feel in being obliged to with- 
draw from these advantages, our heart-felt sorrow is, that in crushing 
the high and sacred principles of Free Inquiry, its ruling authorities have 
given a death-blow to the spirit of its glory, and have dragged it down to 
a dishonoured level with those institutions where mind becomes the 
crouching slave of prescription ; institutions, in which the cries of liberty, 
prostrate and bleeding, and of truth, reviled and outlawed, are unheeded • 
but where all that fashion will countenance, and public favour applaud, 
and patronage support, and power defend, find ready admission, hearty 
welcome, and bountiful reward, — where siding with the strong against 
the weak, with the doers against the sufferers of wrong, is the stipulated 
condition of membership, and the sole passport to favour." Forty of 
them set about establishing a seminary, where freedom of thought and 
speech might be secured, and whose doors should be open to students 
of all ranks, of every religious profession, and of every shade of colour. 
Out of the tyranny of Lane Seminary, thus arose the freedom of the 
Oberlin Institute. The three sons of the President of Lane are active 
abolitionists. Lane drags on, with its array of professors and paucity of 
students; while the Oberlin numbers between four and five hundred 
students, (of any colour that pleases Heaven,) and would be yet far 
more thronged, if only its means were as noble as its principles. 

About forty of the band repaired to the forest, and set to work to clear 
a tract of land in the north-east part of Ohio, — thirty miles from Cleve- 
land. They first raised for shelter, a long rough house of slabs; that 



12 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

is, of split logs, the bark remaining- on the outer half. The floor, sides, 
roof, and partitions, were made of these slabs. This building exists in 
its primitive state ; and we hope it will be allowed to stand as it is as long 
as the worm, and wind, and weather permit. They toiled in the forest 
during the winter of 1834 — 5. They had no endowments, and little 
pecuniary help. The fame of their virtue spread. Learned and ac- 
complished men, whose hearts were as cultivated as their intellects, volun- 
teered for the honour of being the instructors of such disciples, repair- 
ed to Oberlin, fluug off their coats, felled trees for some hours of the day, 
and delivered lectures for the rest. Young men and women flocked to 
this spot in the forest, to beg such instruction as should fit them to be 
teachers to the coloured people ; and when told that there were no funds, 
and seeing that there was not accommodation for the increasing num- 
bers, the unfailing reply was, "I will provide for myself, if you will let 
me stay." Building went on rapidly; a substantial building with brick, 
containing ninety-two rooms, besides the barns and wooden dwellings, 
which were the first work of their hands. A practical farmer superin- 
tended the labour of the young men. The young women, whose num- 
ber is about one-fourth of the whole, keep the house, the dairy, and the 
clothes, and have yet found time to learn whatever fits them to be school 
teachers in their turn ; and some are sound Greek and Hebrew scholars. 

The three hours manual labour per day, which is the rule of the insti- 
tution, is supposed to be the chief cause of the excellent state of health 
maintained among its members, — a state of health very unusual in a fresh 
forest clearing. The members themselves believe that their abstemious 
mode of living is also largely concerned in this effect. When the con- 
course of numbers, and the pressure of poverty became great, the mem- 
bers, (including the professors and their families) gave up first meat, 
(fermented liquors having been excluded from the beginning) and then 
coffee and tea. They live on the corn, garden vegetables, and milk, 
provided by their own labour; and they not only live but thrive. When 
they have not money wherewith to buy new clothes, the best coats are 
lent about to those whose turn it is to go forth on excursions of busi- 
ness. 

One student, Randall by name, laid down for their use all the 
money he had in the world, 2,500 dollars, and goes without as long as 
the institution is pressed. A farmer, at a great distance, was touched 
with the story of the founders of Oberlin, and drove over a cow, — the 
only gift he could bestow. A farmer who lived eleven miles off, in a 
good house, Jabez Burrell by name, invited the new comers, who could 
not be accommodated at Oberlin, to take up their abode with him. He 
boarded and lodged seventy for a year and a half. His wife, worn out 
with the charge of such a household, in so wild a region, fell a sacrifice. 
She died exhausted, — but with perfect willingness. She went into the 
affair, heart and hand, with her husband, and preferred being worni>ut 
in such a cause to drawing back from it. Another settler, named John 
Holcomb, resident 25 miles from Oberlin, took in thirty students, with 
their professor, in the same manner, and for the same time. Other 
neighbours have given whatever they could, — mone)", time, labour of 
head and hands. Severely as the Oberlin has suffered from the pres- 



OBERLIN INSTITUTE. 



13 



sure of the times, it seems as if it must be safe in the guardianship of its 
own principles, and of the faith and love of all who come within its in- 
fluence. 

The President of Oberlin went to Boston, on the business of the 
institution, at a time when the pressure on its resources was great, and 
its prospects very dark. He was offered a salary of 2,000 dollars a year, 
if he would remain to minister in connexion with the Hall for Free 
Inquiry, lately erected in Boston. As a neighbour said, " they might 
as well have asked one of our old oaks to come up by the roots, and fix 
itself at Boston." He had no other thought than of going back to his 
chair and his plough ; and there he is. 

There is one vacation in the year at Oberlin ; and during these three 
months the members are as hard at work as during any other season. 
They disperse themselves over the land, to discover where they are most 
wanted, and what new work is turning up for their hands to do. 
Wherever they go, the oppressed lift up their heads, and freedom smiles. 
They are the guardians of civil and religious liberty ; and where they 
are seen, the despised and heart-wounded people of colour feel as if 
suddenly camped about with angels. Some teach : some preach : some 
put the disheartened in the way of helping each other, and becoming 
strong by union : others organize schools, or establish anti-slavery libraries. 
Some repair to the West Indies, as teachers of our brethren of colour there. 
Others go among the same race in Canada, lifting up the intellect of the 
poor fugitives into a fitness for the state of freedom they have attained ; 
or awaiting on the safe shore of the Canadian lakes and rivers the land- 
ing of the escaped slave, recording on the spot the facts of his wrongs, 
and sanctifying and directing into practice, his first emotions on becom- 
ing free. At the end of the annual vacation, such students as can be 
spared from their new labours return to Oberlin. Those who can find 
no substitute, and cannot conscientiously quit their charge, defer their 
return till they can be relieved. All the members are free to go and 
come, as they think right : and it does not appear that their studies 
suffer from this freedom. It might be anticipated that the vigour of 
principle on which they act would do more for their intellects and 
mental habits than any rules and methods which serve a good purpose 
in ordinary cases : but there is positive testimony to the same effect. 
Judge Lane (Judge of the Supreme Court of Ohio) conceiving it to be 
his duty to make himself acquainted with public educational institutions 
in his State, visited and examined the Oberlin, and gave it as the result 
of his investigation that he had never known the same amount of mind 
more substantially and happily improved in the same space of time. 

We have followed the history of the Oberlin up to the present 
date. To go back to the year of the crisis of the Lane Seminary. 

While these things were doing in the West, a strange thing was hap- 
pening in the South. In the midst of the hot fields of Alabama, where 
the Negro drinks the last dregs of his cup of bitterness, and sees his 
family ''killed off" before his eyes, in securing for one whom he hates 
the full abundance of a virgin soil ;— from among the raw settlements 
where white men carry secret arms, and black men secret curses, a great 
man rose up before the public eye, and declared himself an abolitionist. 



14 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

Mr Birney was a great man in a worldly as well as a moral sense, — 
not only " a gentleman of property and standing/' but Solicitor-Gene- 
ral of the State, and in the way to be Judge of its Supreme Court. 
But he was also an honest and a moderate man. It was he who, being 
asked about investments for capital in the West, smiled, and said, " I 
am the worst person you could ask. My family and I are happy with 
what we have : we do not know that we should be happier with more ; 
and therefore we inquire nothing about investments." None can be 
fully aware of the singularity of this answer who have not witnessed the 
prevalence and force of the spirit of speculation in the Western States. — 
Mr Birney removed from Alabama, emancipated and settled all his 
slaves, giving them education in defiance of the laws of Kentucky, and 
himself setting up a newspaper in Cincinnati, standing his ground 
there against many and awful attempts upon his life, and at length gain- 
ing a complete victory, and establishing freedom of speech and the press. 
This is the gentleman to whom Dr. Channing wrote his splendid Letter 
(on liberty of speech and the press) ; and to that letter Mr Birney ac- 
knowledges himself under great obligations — Dr. Channing's name 
effecting in some minds changes which angelic truth could not achieve. 
Mr Birney is he to whom Southern Members of Congress now address 
themselves — now that they are compelled to stoop to address abolition- 
ists at all : — he is addressed as the gentleman of the party — a distinction 
at which he would be the first to smile. The whole South felt the shock 
of such a man coming forth against its u peculiar domestic institu- 
tions :" and all the more from Mr. Birney's having been an active 
colonizationist — a bountiful and influential friend to that Society — even 
a collector of funds for it — till experience convinced him, first of its 
inefficiency, and then of its wickedness. There was much sensation 
about Mr. Birney in many a house. His name was carefully avoided 
before strangers, as it was well that they should not hear the story 
("strangers could not understand it:") but here were men gnashing 
their teeth at him for "loosening the bonds of society :" there women 
horror-struck lest he should introduce "insubordination" (meaning 
midnight massacre) : and children* agreeing that he could be no gen- 
tleman to think of putting notions into the heads of his "people," and 
turning; them adrift to take care of themselves. Silence brooded over 



* While children in the South were naturally adopting and exaggerating- tlr-ir 
pa'ren'.s' v : ews on the great question 1 , calling Mr Adams a " horrid creature" for 
vindicating the right of petition, and Mr. Van Ihiren a " dear soul" for giving his 
casting vote in favour of the third reading of the Gag Bill, there was sympathy ;n 
the North between children and their parents who took the opp site side of the 
question. One little -girl of seven years old, an only child, happened to Ik- r some- 
body say to her father, that those who consumed slave products, during the pn tut 
crisis, were partly answerable for the sufferings of the negroes. This sank : to hei' 
mind. Some time after, her mother saw the tears stealing 1 down her face. On being 
spoken to, she threw her arms round her mother's neck, and whispered) that; si e 
m-.-ant never again to eat cake, or sweetmeats, or sugar in any form. She was left 
entirely to her own feelings on the matter, her parents only taking care to pi ovi I r 
wjih what they can get of free labour sugar. Under every conceivable circumstance 
of temptation, away from home, and among her little companions, this young creature 
has remained faithful to her spontaneous resolution. 



NEW YORK RIOTS. 15 

the cotton-fields where slaves were within earshot : but within the dwell- 
ings multitudes of whites were whispering about Mr. Birney. 

The cities of the North were at the same lime in commotion. From 
disturbing meetings and inflicting petty social wounds, the enemies of 
the coloured race proceeded to gross outrage. The fear for the purses 
of the merchants and shipowners of the North was becoming exasperat- 
ed into panic. The panic was generously shared by those who had no 
ships, and conducted no commerce. The lawyers and clergy, "gentle- 
men of property and standing" of every sort, and the press, gave their 
sympathy to the merchants, and the result was presently visible in the 
reflection of flames upon the midnight sky. The American reign of 
terror now began. In Philadelphia forty-four houses and two churches 
were besieged : some few greatly damaged, and the rest sacked and de- 
stroyed. The forty-four houses belonged to the people of colour. In New 
York the mob hunted higher game. On the 4th of July (the anniver- 
sary of the day when liberty was guaranteed to all American citizens by 
the declaration of Independence), the house of Mr Lewis Tap pan was 
sacked, and the furniture burned in the street. A certain bureau, in which 
his children kept their little keepsakes and other treasures was thrown upon 
the heap, and was soon crackling in the flames ; an early taste of per- 
secution for the young creatures, and a circumstance exceedingly well 
adapted to perpetuate their father's spirit in them. The house of Dr. 
Cox was seriously damaged, and the African school- house in Orancre- 
street, with twelve adjacent houses, chiefly belonging to people of colour, 
were destroyed. St. Philip's church was sacked, and several others 
much damaged. The abolitionists not only suffered the destruction of 
their property, and the peril of their lives, but the revilings of the press 
were poured out upon them. They were upbraided as the causes of 
the riots, and were told that, though they were served rightly enough, 
they had no business to scare the city with the sight of their burning 
property and demolished churches. 

Next followed the virtual accession of a great northern man to the 
cause ; for though Dr. Charming continued to censure the abolitionists 
for two years after this, it was in the autumn of 1834 that his 
mind's eye was fixed upon the question on which he has since 
acted a brave part. It was at the close of this summer, in the 
parlour of his Rhode Island retreat, that the memorable conver- 
sation with Mr Abdy took place, by which Dr. Channing's attention 
was aroused to the wrongs of the coloured race. Scarcely any other 
man of his heart and his principles could have remained so lono- 
unaware of the actual state of the case : but there are circumstances of 
health, habit, and environment, which account for the fact to those who 
know Dr. Charming. As soon as Mr. Abdy had quitted him, he applied 
himself to, learn the truth of the case, and in the month of October 
preached a thorough-going abolition sermon, as to its principles at 
least, though many months elapsed before he learned fully to reeoonize 
the merits of the men who were teaching and practising them at the 
hazard of all that ordinary men most value. But the ray of doubt 
which was thus carried into that country retreat has now briohtened 
into the sunshine of perfect conviction ; it did so in time to dispel the 



16 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

dark clouds which had gathered above the morals of the Texas question. 
It is owing to Dr. Channing, finally and chiefly (though in the first 
instance to Mr. Child), that the United States have been saved the 
crime and the shame of annexing Texas to the Union, for the purpose 
of the protraction of slavery. 

At the close of this busy year it was found that the Auxiliary Anti- 
Slavery Societies had increased from sixty to about two hundred. The 
great executive Committee proposed to their constituents to " thank 
God and take courage." J 

The case of the abolitionists will not, however, be truly regarded, if 
they are contemplated as herding together, supporting each other by 
sympathy and mutual aid. They met, in smaller or larger numbers, 
from time to time ; they met for refreshment and for mutual strength : but 
it was in the intervals of these meetings, the weary, lonely intervals, that 
their trials befel them. It was when the husband was abroad about his 
daily business that he met with his crosses : his brother merchants 
deprived him of his trade ; his servants insulted him ; the magistrates 
refused him redress of grievances ; among his letters he found one 
enclosing the ear of a negro ; or a printed hand-bill offering large re- 
wards for his own ears or his head ; or a lithographed representation of 
himself hanging from a gallows, or burning in a tar-barrel. It was 
when the wife was plying her needle by the fireside that messages were 
brought in from her tradesmen that they could supply her no longer, or 
that letters dropped in with such contents as the following : — 

" Madam — I write to inform you that personal violence is intended on you 
and your husband this evening. 

" Your's, in haste, 

" An Abolitionist. 
" Beware of nine o'clock." 

It. was in the course of ordinary life that their children came crying 
from school, tormented by their school-fellows for their parents' prin- 
ciples ; that youths had the doors of colleges slammed in their faces, 
and that young men were turned back from the pulpit and the bar. — 
This was a course of life which required a better support than the tem- 
porary enthusiasm of an occasional meeting, be the emotions of the hour 
as lofty and holy as they might. Such a support these men and 
women had ; and never was it more wanted than at this crisis in their 
history. 

In the month of July, ] 835, one of the dismissed students of the Lane 
Seminary, Amos Dresser by name, travelled southwards from Cincinnati, 
for the purpose of selling bibles and a few other books, as a means of 
raising funds for the completion of his education ; a very common prac- 
tice in the west, and highly useful to the residents of new settlements. 
At Nashville, Tennessee, he was arrested on suspicion of being an aboli- 
tion agent; which was not the fact, and in support of which there was 
positively no evidence whatever. He had not spoken with slaves, or 
distributed books among free persons of colour. He was brought before 
a Committee of Vigilance, consisting of sixty-two of the principal citizens, 
among whom were seven elders of the Presbyterian church. H i 



AMOS DRESSER. 17 

examination lasted from between four and five in the afternoon till eleven 
at night. His trunk was brought before the Committee and emptied. 
In it were found three volumes, written by abolitionists, put in by Dres- 
ser for his private reading ; and some old newspapers of the same cha- 
racter, used as stuffing to prevent the books from rubbing. His private 
journal was examined ; but as it was in pencil, consisting only of memoran- 
da, and those put in abbreviation, little could be made out of it. The Mayor 
gave up the attempt to read it aloud, observing, as he laid it down, that 
it was "evidently very hostile to slavery." Private letters from friends 
were then read aloud, and wise looks were exchanged among the judges 
at every expression which could be laid hold of as indicating a different 
way of thinking from theirs. At eleven o'clock the young man was sent 
into an adjoining room to await the judgment of the Committee. He 
had not conceived the idea of any very serious issue of the examination ; 
and it was, therefore, with horror that he heard from the principal city 
officer that the Committee were debating whether his punishment should 
be thirty-nine lashes, or a hundred (a number considered fatal, in the 
way in which abolitionists are flogged], or death by hanging. The 
Committee acknowledged, through the whole proceeding, that Dresser 
had broken no law ; but pleaded that if the law did not sufficiently pro- 
tect slavery against the assaults of opinion, an association of gentlemen 
must make law for the occasion. Dresser was found guilty of three 
things ; of being a member of an Anti-Slavery Society in another State — of 
having books of an anti-Slavery tendency in his possession, and of being 
believed to have circulated such in his travels. He was condemned to 
receive twenty lashes on his bare back in the market-place. To the 
market-piace he was marched, amidst the acclamations of the mob ; and 
there, by torch-light, and just as the chimes were about to usher in the 
Sunday, he was stripped and flogged with a heavy cow-hide. At the 
close an involuntary exclamation of thanksgiving escaped his lips that 
it was over, and that he had been able to bear it. " God d — n him, 
stop his praying \" was shouted on all hands. Twenty-four hours were 
allowed him to leave the city ; but it was thought unsafe for him to re- 
main a moment longer than was absolutely necessary, or to return to his 
lodgings. Some kind person or persons, entire strangers to him, drew 
him into a house, bathed his wounds, gave him food, and furnished him 
with a disguise, with which he left the place on foot, early in the morn- 
ing. Neither clothes, books, nor papers were ever returned to him, 
though he made every necessary application. There is little in the ex- 
citement of annual or quarterly meetings which can sustain a young man 
under an ignominious public whipping, in a strange city, where there 
was not one familiar face to look upon. Dresser has some other sup- 
port, which has prevented his shrinking from the consequences of his 
opinions then and ever since. When he visited Boston, some time 
alter, he spoke at an abolition meeting. We have before us, in the form 
of an animadversion upon this, a specimen of the newspaper comments 
of the time upon such transactions as Dresser was the subject of. We 
quote from the Boston Courier : — 

" Hearing yesterday, as I passed through Congress Hall, the screams of one 

c 



18 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

who appeared to be in distress, I went up to see what could be the matter, when 
I found several hundred females, of all occupations and colours, gazing and 
quivering at a spectacle of the most writhing agony. A miserable young man, 
expelled not long since for disorderly conduct from Lane Seminary, was endea- 
vouring to avenge himself on slave holders If the women, such as 

composed this motley assembly, cannot find sufficient to do in taking care of 
their ragged children, then let some employment be given them, in which they 
may at least be saved from disgracing their sex : or, if they must have a spec- 
tacle, let them put the halter at once around the neck of this martyr to revenge, 
witness his swinging fidgets, and then go home." 

It was about this time that the Attorney-General of Massachusetts, 
Austin by name, gave advice to the Governor in Council that any aboli- 
tionists demanded by the South should be delivered up for trial under 
Southern laws (the sure result of which is known to be death). A pam- 
phlet by a leading lawyer of Boston, named Sullivan, followed on the 
same side, offering a legal opinion that those who discussed the subject 
of slavery (an act injurious to the peo,ce of society) might be brought 
under the penal laws of Massachusetts : ex post facto laws, if no others 
could be found. A friend of Dr. Channing's wrote to him that it was now 
time for him to come forward : and he obeyed the suggestion. During 
the autumn he wrote his tract on Slavery, and published it at Christ- 
mas. During the interval some remarkable events had taken place. 

Our historical review has now brought us up to the date of the first of 
the works whose titles we have prefixed to this article, and which are, 
substantially, Annual Reports of the proceedings of the Massachusetts 
Female Anti-Slavery Society. We have arrived at the most remarkable 
period of the great struggle, when an equal share of its responsibility 
and suffering came to press upon women. We have seen how men 
first engaged in it, and how young men afterwards, as a separate ele- 
ment, were brought in. Many women had joined from the first, and 
their numbers had continually increased : but their exertions had hitherto 
consisted in raising funds, and in testifying sympathy for the coloured 
race and their advocates. Their course of political action, which has 
never since been checked, began in the autumn of 1835. 

The Female Anti-Slavery Society in Boston is composed of women 
bf every rank, and every religious sect, as well as of all complexions. 
The president is a Presbyterian ; the chief secretary is an Unitarian ; and 
among the other officers and members may be found Quakers, Episco- 
palians, Methodists, and Swedenborgians. All sectarian jealousy is 
lost in the great cause ; and these women had, from the first day of 
their association, preserved, not only harmony, but strong mutual 
affection, while differing on matters of opinion as freely and almost as 
widely as if they had kept within the bosom of their respective sects. 
Upon such a set of women was the responsibility thrown of vindicating 
the liberty of meeting and of free discussion in Boston ; and nobly they 
sustained it. 

Before we proceed, it is necessary to say a few words upon the most 
remarkable of these women, — the understood author of the books whose 
titles stand at the head of our article. Maria Weston was educated in 
England, and might have remained here in the enjoyment of wealth, 



MARIA W. CHAPMAN. 19 

luxury, and fashion : but with these she could not obtain sufficient free- 
dom of thought and action to satisfy her noble nature ; and, no natural 
lies detaining- her, she returned to New England, to earn her bread 
there by leaching, and breathe as freely as she desired. She has paid a 
heavy tax of persecution for her freedom ; but she has it. She is a 
woman of rare intellectual accomplishment, full of reading, and with 
strong and well-exercised powers of thought. She is beautiful as the 
day, tall in her person, and noble in her carriage, with a voice as sweet 
as a silver bell, and speech as clear and sparkling as a running brook. 
Her accomplishments have expanded in a happy home. She has been 
for some years the wife of Mr. Henry Chapman, a merchant of Boston, 
an excellent man, whose spirit of self-denial is equal to his wife's, and is 
shown no less nobly in the same cause. A woman of genius like hei*S 
cannot but take the lead wherever she acts at all ; and she is the life and 
soul of the enterprise in Boston. The foes of the cause have nicknamed 
her " Captain Chapman ;" and the name passes from mouth to mouth 
as she walks up Washington-street,— not less admired, perhaps, all the 
while, than if she were only the most beautiful woman in the city. This 
lady, with all her sisters, took her ground early, and has always had 
sober reason to plead for every one of her many extensions of effort. 
She is understood to have drawn up the petition which follows, — a fair 
specimen of the multitudes of petitions from women which have been 
piled up under the table of Congress, till the venerable John Quincy 
Adams has been roused to the remarkable conflict which we shall 
presently have to allude to :— > 

" Petition 
" To the Honourable Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled. 

" The undersigned, women of Massachusetts, deeply convinced of the sinful- 
ness of slavery, and keenly aggrieved by its existence in a part of our country 
over which Congress possesses exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever, do 
most earnestly petition your honourable body immediately to abolish slavery in 
the District of Columbia, and to declare every human being free who sets foot 
upon its soil. 

" We also respectfully announce our intention to present the same petition 
yearly before your honourable body, that it may at least be a ' memorial of us* 
that in the holy cause of Human Freedom ' we have done what we could.' " 

In answer to objections against such petitioning, the author of ' Right 
and Wrong in Boston' says— 

" If we are not enough grieved at the existence of slavery to ask that it may 
be abolished in the ten miles square over which Congress possesses exclusive 
jurisdiction, we may rest assured that we are slave-holders in heart, and indeed 
under the endurance of the penalty which selfishness inflicts, — the slow but cer- 
tain death of the soul. We sometimes, but not often, hear it said — ' It is such 
an odd, unladylike thing to do !' We concede that the human soul, in the full 
exercise of its most god-like power of self-denial and exertion for the good of 
others, is, emphatically, a very unladylike thing. We have never heard this 
objection but from that sort of woman who is dead while she lives, or to be 
pitied as the victim of domestic tyranny. The woman who makes it is generally 
one who has struggled from childhood up to womanhood through a process of 



20 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

spiritual suffocation. Her infancy was passed in serving as a convenience for the 
display of elegant baby linen. Her youth, in training for a more public display 
of braiding the hair, and wearing of gold, and putting on of apparel; while the 
ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, — the hidden man of the heart, is not 
deemed worthy the attainment. Her summers fly away in changes of air and 
water; her winters in changes of flimsy garments, in inhaling lamp-smoke, and 
drinking champagne at midnight with the most dissipated men in the commu- 
nity. This is the woman who tells us it is unladylike to ask that children may 
no longer be sold away from their parents, or wives from their husbands, in the 
District of Columbia, and adds, ' Tlsey ought to be mobbed who ask it.' 
. . . . O how painful is the contemplation of the ruins of a nature a little 
lower than the angels!" — Right and Wrong in Boston in 1836, p. 27. 

" We feel," she elsewhere declares, " that we may confidently affirm that no 
woman of Massachusetts will cease to exercise for the slaves the right of petition 
(her only means of manifesting her civil existence) for which Mr. Adams has so 
nobly contended. Massachusetts women will not forget in their petitions to 
Heaven the name of him who upheld their prayer for the enslaved of the earth, 
in the midst of sneers and wrath, bidding oppressors remember that they, too, 
were woman-born, and declaring that he considered the wives, and mothers, and 

daughters of his electors, as his constituents What immediate effect would 

be produced on men's hearts, and how much they might be moved to wrath be- 
fore they were touched with repentance, we have never been careful to inquire. 
We leave such cares with God ; we do so with confidence in his paternal pro- 
vidence; for what we have done is right and womanly." — Right and Wrong in 
Boston in 1837, p. 87. 

To consult on their labours of this and other kinds, the ladies of the 
Boston Anti-Slavery Society intended to meet at their own office, 46, 
Washington- street, on the 21st of October. Handbills had been circu- 
lated and posted up in different parts of the city the day before, offering 
a reward to any persons who would commit certain acts of violence, — 
such as "bringing Thompson to the tar-kettle before dark." The ladies 
were informedthat they would be killed ; and when they applied at the 
Mayor's office for protection to their lawful meeting, the City Marshal 
replied — " You give us a great deal of trouble." This trouble, how- 
ever, their consciences compelled them to give. They could not decline 
the duty of asserting their liberty of meeting and free discussion. But 
Mrs. Chapman felt that every member should have notice of what might 
await her ; and she herself carried the warning from house to house, 
with all discretion and quietness. Among those whom she visited was 
an artizan's wife, who was sweeping out one of her two rooms as Mrs. 
Chapman entered. On hearing that there was every probability of 
violence, and that the warning was given in order that she might stay 
away, if she thought proper, she leaned upon her broom, and considered 
for awhile. Her answer was — " I have often wished and asked that I 
mi^ht be able to do something for the slaves ; and it seems to me that 
this is the very time and the very way. You will see me at the meeting, 
and I will keep a prayerful mind, as I am about my work, till then," 

Twenty-five reached the place of meeting, by presenting themselves 
three-quarters of an hour before the time. Five more struggled up the 
stairs, and a hundred were turned back by the mob. It is well known 
how these ladies were mobbed by some hundreds of gentlemen in fine 
"broad-cloth" — (Boston broad-cloth has become celebrated since that 



MOB IN BOSTON. 21 

day). It is well known how these gentlemen hurraed, broke down the 
partition, and threw orange-peel at ihe ladies while they were at prayer : 
but Mrs. Chapman's part in the lessons of the hour has not been made 
public. 

She is the Foreign Corresponding Secretary of the society ; and she 
was in the midst of reading her Report, in a noise too great to allow of 
her being heard, when the mayor of Boston, Mr. Lyman, entered the 
room in great trepidation — 

" Ladies," said he, " I request you to dissolve this meeting." 

"Mr. Mayor," said Mrs. Chapman, "we desire you to disperse this 
mob." 

"Ladies," the mayor continued, "you must dissolve this meeting; 
I cannot preserve the peace." 

" Mr. Mayor," replied Mrs. Chapman, "we are disturbed in our law- 
ful business by this unlawful mob, and it is your business to relieve us 
of it." 

" I know it, Mrs. Chapman, I know it ; but I cannot : I cannot pro- 
tect you ; and I entreat you to go." 

"If that be the case," answered she, "as we have accomplished our 
object, and vindicated our right of meeting, we will, if the meeting 
pleases, adjourn." She looked round upon her companions, and pro- 
posed that, to accommodate the authorities, they should adjourn their 
meeting. This was agreed to, and the women passed down the stairs, 
and through the mob, and, as the business of the day was finished, each 
to her own home. Certain of the fine broad-cloth men observed after- 
wards that Mrs. Chapman, in the high excitement of the hour, looked 
more like an angel than a woman who is visible every day. She was 
not aware that her friend Garrison was in the hands of the mob, and 
she therefore went home, as she had advised her companions to do, and 
sat down to her needle. Presently several gentlemen entered without 
asking admission. She recognised among them some members of Dr. 
Channing's church, whom she was accustomed to meet at worship 
Sunday by Sunday. They demanded Mr. Thompson, saying, that they 
had reason to believe he was in that house. They wanted Mr. Thomp- 
son. 

"I know it," said she; "and I know what you want with Mr. 
Thompson; you want his blood." 

They declared they would not shed his blood; but she held off till 
they had pledged themselves that under no circumstances should Mr. 
Thompson receive bodily harm. 

" This pledge is what I wanted," said she ; " and now I will tell you 
that Mr. Thompson is not here, and I am sure I don't know where 
he is." 

She then told the gentlemen that she had something to say to them, 
and they must hear her. On a day like this, when the laws were 
broken, and the peace of society violated by those who ought best to 
know their value, it was no time for ceremony ; she should speak with 
the plainness which the times demanded. And she proceeded with a 
remonstrance so powerful that, after some argument, her adversaries 



22 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

fairly succumbed : one wept, and another asked as a favour that she 
would shake hands with him. But at this crisis her husband came in. 
The sight of him revived the bad passions of these gentry. They said 
they had to inform him that they had obtained the names of his com- 
mercial correspondents in the South, and were about to deprive him of 
his trade, by informing his southern connexions that the merchants of 
Boston disowned him for a fellow-citizen, and had proscribed him from 
their society. Mr. Chapman quietly replied that by their thus coming 
to see him he was enabled to save them the trouble of writing to the 
South ; and he proceeded to explain that, finding his southern commerce 
implicated with slave labour, he had surrendered more and more of it, 
and had this very week declined to execute orders to the amount of 
three thousand dollars. There was nothing left for these magnanimous 
gentlemen but to sneak away. 

The women who were at the meeting of this memorable day were 
worthy of the occasion, not from being strong enough to follow the lead 
of such a woman as Maria Chapman, but from having a strength inde- 
pendent of her. The reason of Garrison being there was, that he went 
to escort his young wife, who was near her confinement. She was one 
of the last to depart, and it could not be concealed from her that her 
husband was in the hands of the mob. She stepped out of the window 
upon a shed, in the fearful excitement of the moment. He was in the 
extremest danger. His hat was lost, and brickbats were rained upon 
his head, while he was hustled along in the direction of the tar-kettle, 
which was heating in the next street. The only words which escaped 
from the white lips of the young wife were — "I think my husband will 
not deny his principles; 1 am sure my husband will never deny his 
principles." Garrison was rescued by a stout truck-man, and safely 
lodged in jail (the only place in which he could be secure), without 
having in the least flinched from the consequences of his principles. 
The differences in the minds of these women, and the view which they 
all agree to take of the persecution to which they are subjected, may 
be best shown in the eloquent words of the author of " Right and 
Wrong :" — 

" Our common cause appears in a different vesture as presented by differing 
minds. One is striving to unbind a slave's manacles — another to secure to all 
human souls their inalienable rights; one to secure the temporal well-being, and 
another the spiritual benefit, of the enslaved of our land. Some labour that 
the benefits which they feel that they have derived from their own system of 
theology may be shared by the bondman; others, that the bondman may have 
light and liberty to form a system for himself. Some, that he may be enabled to 
hallow the Sabbath-day by rest and religious observances ; some, that he may 
receive wages for the other six. Some are forcibly urged to the work of eman- 
cipation by the sight of scourged and insulted manhood; and others by the spec- 
tacle of outraged womanhood and weeping infancy. Some labour to preserve 
from torture the slave's body, and some for the salvation of his soul. Here are 
differences ; nevertheless, our hopes and our hearts are one." — Right and Wrong, 
vol. ii, p. 80- 

" There is an exceeding g re at reward in faithful obedience ; the clearer and 
deeper views of duty it gives ; the greater love of God and man— the deliverance 
from fear and constraint—the less apprehension of suffering— ' the more freedom 



ENDURANCE FOR THE CAUSE. 23 

to die.' Enjoying these, may we never look for any reward less spiritual and 
enduring. We pray, for the sake of the oppressed, that God will aid us to Danish 
from our hearts every vestige of selfishness ; for, in proportion to our disin- 
terestedness will be our moral power for their deliverance. Not until our mount 
of sacrifice overtops the mountain of southern transgression should we dare to 
ask the slave-holder to give up the bondman. We should not dare to bid him 
relinquish what he (however erroneously) thinks his living, till we have first cast 
into the treasury our own. How dare we expect him to incur the displeasure 
of his friends and neighbours, till we have exhausted every form of representa- 
tion and entreaty with ours — till we have finally said, in the plainness of Christian 
reproof, to the steady opponent of righteousness at the North, 'the slave-holder 
goes up to his house justified rather than thou ?' The experience of the past 
shows, not only that emancipation must come, but also the manner of its coming. 
Our national confederacy is but just beginning to unite, on the only true principle 
of union — to give and not to receive. If we of the North persevere, at every 
sacrifice to ourselves, in giving the truth, which alone can save the country from 
the alternations of anarchy, insurrection, and despotism, doubt not that there 
are multitudes at the south who will receive it gladly, at a far nobler sacrifice. 
The sublime example of such as Birney, and Thome, and Nelson, and Allen, and 
Angelina E. Grimke, will not be given in vain. A few more years of danger and 
intense exertion, and the South and the North will unite in reading the Consti- 
tution by the light from above, thrown on it by the Declaration of Independence, 
and not by the horrible glare of the slave-code. The cause of freedom will ere 
long become the popular one ; and a voice of regret will be heard throughout 
the land, from those who will have forgotten these days of misrepresentation 
and danger- — ' Why was not I among the early abolitionists !' Let us be deeply 
grateful that we are among the early called. Let us pray God to forgive the 
men who would deface every feature of a Christian community by making it 
personally dangerous to fulfil a Christian woman's duty ; to forgive the man who 
sneers at the sympathy for the oppressed implanted by the Spirit of God in the 
heart of the mother that bore and cherished his infancy — of the wife, the help- 
mate of his manhood, and of the daughter whom that same quality of womanly 
devotedness would lead to shield his grey head with her own bosom. Let us 
never forget through these unquiet years, whereunto we are called, 

' The first in shame and agony, 
The meanest in the lowest task ; 
This must we be !' — 

the stepping stone by which the wealthy, the gifted and the influential, are to 
pass unharmed, through the roar of waters, to the Right side." — Right and 
Wrong, vol. ii, pp. 81 — 83. 

" Angelina E. Grimke." Who is she ? She and her sister Sarah 
are Quaker ladies of South Carolina. Our author says of their visit to 
Boston, to act and speak in this cause — "It might have been antici- 
pated that they would have met with a friendly reception from those 
calling themselves the better sort, for they were highly connected. Un- 
fortunately, they were but women ; though the misfortune of that fact 
was greatly abated by their being sisters of the Hon. Thos. S. Grimke." This 
gentleman was, in point of scholarship, the greatest ornament of the 
United States, and his character was honoured by the whole community. 
After his death, his sisters strove by all the means which could be devised 
by powerful intellects and kind hearts to ameliorate the condition of the 
slaves they had inherited. In defiance of the laws, they taught them, 



24 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

and introduced upon their estates as many as possible of the usages of 
free society. But it would not do. There is no infusing into slavery 
the benefits of freedom. When these ladies had become satisfied of 
this fact, they surrendered their worldly interests instead of their con- 
sciences. They freed their slaves, and put them in the way of providing 
for themselves in a free region, and then retired to Philadelphia, to live 
on the small remains of their former opulence. It does not appear that 
they had any intention of coming forward publicly as they have since 
done ; but feeling themselves conscientiously obliged to devote them- 
selves and all their powers to the cause, it has been found that their 
knowledge of the minute details and less obvious workings of the slavery 
system has supplied precisely the support which was most needed to the 
great question. Their Quaker habits of speaking rendered it easy for 
them to communicate, in public addresses, their own convictions and 
personal knowledge; and the exertion of their great talents in this direction 
has been of most essential service to the cause. It was before they 
adopted this mode of action that the public first became interested in 
these ladies, through a private letter written by Angelina to her friend 
Garrison— a letter which he did his race the kindness to publish, and 
which strengthened even the great man's strong heart. We give the 
greater part of it : — 

"I can hardly express to thee the deep and solemn interest with which I have 
viewed the violent proceedings of the last few weeks. Although I expected op- 
position, yet I was not prepared for it so soon — it took me by surprise, and I 
greatly feared the abolitionists would be driven back on the first onset, and thrown 
into confusion. So fearful was I, that though I clung with unflinching firmness 
to our principles, yet I was afraid of even opening one of thy papers, lest I 
should see some indications of a compromise, some surrender, some palliation. 
Under these feelings I was induced to read thy appeal to the citizens of Boston. 
Judge, then, what were my feelings, on finding that my fears were utterly ground- 
less, and that thou stoodest firm in the midst of the storm, determined to suffer 
and to die, rather than yield one inch. 

" Religious persecution always begins with mobs ; it is always unprecedented 
in any age or country in which it commences, and therefore there are no laws 
by which reformers can be punished; consequently, a lawless band of unprin- 
cipled men determine to take the matter into their hands, and act out in mobs, 
what they know are the principles of a large majority of those who are too high 
in church and state to condescend to mingle with them, though they secretly 
approve and rejoice over their violent measures. The first martyr who ever died 
was stoned by a lawless mob ; and if we look at the rise of various sects — me- 
thodists, friends, &c. — we shall find that mobs began the persecution against 
them, and that it was not until after the people had thus spoken out their wishes, 
that laws were framed to fine, imprison, or destroy them. Let us, then, be pre- 
pared for the enactment of laws, even in our free States, against abolitionists. 
And how ardently has the prayer been breathed, that God would prepare us for 
all he is preparing for us ! 

" My mind has been especially turned towards those who are standing in the 
forefront of the battle; and the prayer has gone up for their preservation — not 
the preservation of their lives, but the preservation of their minds in humility 
and patience, faith, hope, and charity — that charity which is the bond of per- 
fectness. If persecution is the means which God has ordained for the accom- 
plishment of this great end, Emancipation, then, in dependence upon him for 



ANGELINA E. GRIMKE. 25 

strength to bear it, I feel as if I could say, let it come ; for it is my deep, solemn, 
deliberate conviction, that this is a cause worth dying for. 

" At one time I thought this system would be overthrown in blood, with the 
confused noise of the warrior ; but a hope gleams across my mind that our blood 
will be spilt, instead of the slaveholders'; our lives will be taken, and theirs 
spared; I say a hope, for of all things I desire to be spared the anguish of seeing 
our beloved country desolated with the horrors of a servile war. 

" A. E. Grimke." 

In answer to an overwhelming pressure of invitations, these ladies have 
lectured in upwards of sixty towns of the United States to overflowing 
audiences. Boston itself has listened to them with reverence. Some 
of the consequences of their exertions will be noticed as we proceed : 
meantime we must give our author's report of this novelty in the method 
of proceeding : — 

" The idea of a woman's teaching was a startling novelty, even to abolition- 
ists; but their principled and habitual reverence for the freedom of individual 
action induced them to a course unusual among men — to examine before they 
condemned. Only a short examination was needed to convince them that the 
main constituents in the relation of teacher and taught are ignorance on one side 
and knowledge on the other. They had been too long accustomed to hear the 
Bible quoted in defence of slavery, to be astonished that its authority should be 
claimed for the subjugation of woman, the moment she should act for the en- 
slaved. The example and teaching of the Grimkes wrought conviction as to 
the rights and consequent duties of women in the minds of multitudes. 
Prejudices and ridiculous associations of ideas vanished. False interpretations 
of scripture disappeared. Probably our children's children, our sons no less than 
our daughters, will dwell on the memory of these women, as the descendants of 
the bondman of to-day will cherish the name of Garrison." — Right and Wrong, 
vol. hi, p. 61. 

Angelina E. Grimke was married., in the spring of 1 838, to Theodore D. 
Weld, one of the forty seceders from Lane Seminary. The devotion of 
these ladies to the cause they have espoused is a devotion for life. They 
give their all to it, — not only their time and labour, not only their slave- 
property, but all their resources. They are now living on "the Hudson, 
about ten miles from New York, thinking the bare support of life 
enough, since it is sufficient for their object. They have no servant, and 
they have long given up meat, tea, and coffee. The saving of time is as 
much an object with them in this as economy of money. Their office 
is to collect and publish evidence (for which their former experience as 
slave-holders peculiarly fits them) relating to the whole system of 
slavery. They are thus pretty constantly employed in writing. The 
family sit at their desks till within five minutes of the dinner or supper 
hour. One of the ladies goes down to prepare the table, and rings the 
bell as the hour strikes, when the rest descend to their cheerful meal, 
thus easily prepared. It is thought probable that, without such a 
change in their mode of living, persons who had been brought up in the 
climate, and amidst the luxurious indulgences of the Southern States, 
would have soon sunk under the toils and excitements which these 
ladies have sustained, — thus far, thank God ! without injury to the 
health of body or mind. 



26 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

A gentleman of the class from which the Grimkes have emerged, Mr. 
M'Duffie, Governor of South Carolina, wrote a remarkable message to 
the legislature of his State this same year, 1835. He declared therein 
that freedom can be preserved only in societies where work is disreputa- 
ble, or where there is an hereditary aristocracy, or a military despotism ; 
and that he preferred the first, as being the most republican. He 
further declared — 

"No human institution, in my opinion, is more manifestly consistent with the 
will of God than domestic slavery ; and no one of his ordinances is written in 
more legible characters than that which consigns the African race to this condi- 
tion, as more conducive to their own happiness than any other of which they are 
susceptible." . . . . " Domestic slavery, therefore, instead of being a poli- 
tical evil, is the corner-stone of our republican edifice. No patriot who justly 
estimates our privileges will tolerate the idea of emancipation, at any period, 
however remote, or on any conditions of pecuniary advantage, however favour- 
able. I would as soon think of opening a negociation for selling the liberty of 
the State at once, as of making any stipulations for the ultimate emancipation of 
our slaves. So deep is my conviction on this subject, that if I were doomed to 
die immediately after recording these sentiments, I would say, in all sincerity, 
and under all the sanctions of Christianity and patriotism, ' God forbid that my 
descendants, in the remotest generations, should live in any other than a com- 
munity having the institution of domestic slavery, as it existed among the patri- 
archs of the primitive Church, and in all the states of antiquity!" — Governor 
M'Dujfie's Message, 1835. 

When this message, endorsed by a committee of the South Carolina 
Legislature, with General Hamilton for its chairman, arrived in New 
England, Dr. Channing observed in conversation that, but for the obli- 
gation to preserve peace and good-humour, he should have liked to ask 
the veomanry of his State (that body of whom Washington exclaimed, 
in a" paroxysm of admiration and gratitude, " God bless the yeomanry 
of Massachusetts !") what they thought of the doctrine that freedom can 
be preserved only where the efficient classes of society are slaves, where 
work is disreputable, and where slavery is cherished as " the corner- 
stone of the republican edifice." 

The other events which attracted the most attention during this year 
were two. The first was a desperate and cruel massacre of upwards of 
twenty persons on the gibbet at Vicksburg, on the Mississippi, on a 
vague and unfounded suspicion of an intended rising among the slaves. 
The other remarkable event was the " disinterring of the law of Massa- 
chusetts," in defence of two women who had been kidnapped, in order 
to be carried into southern slavery. 

A brig was observed to touch at one of the Boston wharfs, and put off 
a^ain suddenly, in consequence of a few words being spoken to the 
captain by someone on shore. This awakened curiosity; and some 
men of colour rowed round the brig in a boat, but were warned off — not, 
however, before they had seen that two women were making signals of 
distress from the cabin window. The ever-vigilant abolitionists obtained 
a writ of habeas corpus, and got these women out of the custody of the 
captain, and safely provided for in jail. The ladies were aware of the 
difficulty of rescuing kidnapped persons, as, in case of acquittal on the 



RESCUE OF A SLAVE. 27 

charge of being a slave, the claimant is commonly able to lay hands on 
his victim again instantly on some charge of theft. They therefore 
resolved to be at the Court-house during the trial of the claim now 
under notice, that they might not only comfort the poor women by then- 
presence, but aid their instant escape in case of their discharge being 
pronounced. Unusual as was the spectacle of the presence of ladies in 
the Court-house (except in cases of murder, or others of like " thrilling 
interest"), five of the Ladies' Society appeared in Court at nine in the 
morning, and surrounded the prisoners. The claimant endeavoured to 
set up a clause of the Constitution against the Massachusetts Bill of 
Rights ; but the Bill of Rights carried the day, on the plea of an aboli- 
tionist lawyer, Mr. Sewall ; and Judge Shaw arrived, amidst the dead 
silence of the Court, at his closing clause, "whence it appears that the 
prisoners must be discharged." At the word every one rose— the coun- 
sel on both sides, the men of colour who thronged the Court, and the 
women who surrounded the prisoners. The claimant darted forth his 
arm ; but a lane had been made, and the poor women were gone. The 
next minute the place was empty. One of the women fainted in the 
lobby ; but her safety was cared for. 

Among the attendant ladies was a Quaker, " impressed with a sense 
of the duty of rebuke." She observed to the claimant — 

" Lady. Thy prey hath escaped thee. 

" Claimant. Madam, you are very rude to a stranger. 

"Lady. What, then, art thou who comest here to kidnap women ? 

" Claimant. I am a member of the Methodist Church, and presume I give much 
more to the Colonization Society than all of you together. 

"Lady. Why art thou here, then, hunting for those who have colonized 
themselves ? I despise thy conduct and thy Colonization Society alike." 

In Massachusetts alone there was an accession of twenty societies 
during this year. The report says — 

" Five of them are of females. Our opposers affect to sneer at their co- 
operation ; but we welcome, and are grateful for it. The influence of women 
never was, never will be, insignificant: it is dreaded by those who would be 
thought to contemn it. Men have always been eager to secure their co-opera- 
tion. We hail it as most auspicious of our success that so many faithful and 
zealous women have espoused the anti-slavery cause in this republic. Events of 
the past year have proved that those who have associated themselves with us will 
be helpmates indeed; for they are animated by a spirit that can brave danger, 
endure hardship, and face a frowning world." 

It is impossible, in a sketch like the present, to enumerate the acts of 
violence, or to describe the mobs with which the abolitionists have had 
to contend. At Canaan, in New Hampshire, there was an academy, 
to which some benevolent persons had procured admission for about 
twelve young men of colour. All seemed to be going on well, when a 
town meeting was called, and it was resolved to put a stop to the in- 
struction of people of colour. Three hundred citizens assembled one 
morning, provided with ropes and rollers, and fairly rolled away the 



^8 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

Noyes Academy over the boundary of the State. At Cincinnati the 
gentry disgraced themselves by a persecution of Mr. Birney, which 
caused the destruction of his office, press, and types, but which termi- 
nated in the triumph of his moral power over their brute force. At St. 
Louis, in Missouri, a mulatto, named MTntosh, was burned alive under 
circumstances of deep atrocity ; and because he was heard to pray as 
his limbs were slowly consuming, he was pronounced by the magis- 
trates to be in league with the abolitionists. The gentlemen of Charleston 
broke open the post-office, and burned the mails in the street, on the 
charge of their containing anti-slavery papers. Such were a few of the 
events of the year 1836. 

The Governors of some of the Southern Slates demanded of the Go- 
vernor and Legislature of Massachusetts the enactment of penal laws 
against the abolitionists, or that they should be given up to southern 
justice. The Massachusetts abolitionists, as is well known, requested 
to be heard against the passing of such laws; were favoured with an 
apparent audience before a committee of the Legislature ; were insulted 
by the committee, broke off the conference, and demanded a full hearing 
as a matter of right; established all their positions, and justified them- 
selves with the best part of the community, so that the demands of the 
south were thrown under the table, and a Legislature was returned, 
after the next election, whose first act was to pass a set of resolutions 
strongly denouncing slavery, and asserting liberty of speech and the 
press. The particulars of this triumph are well known ; how the mild 
and brave Dr Follen fought his ground, inch by inch, in the midst of 
insult and captious opposition, till every heart and every voice was 
with him ; how the accomplished lawyer, Ellis Gray Loring, com- 
manded the respect of the committee by his readiness, and the power of 
his moderation : how Mr. May tamed his foes (for the committee took 
no pains to conceal that they were foes) into a gentleness almost equal 
to his own : and how the brutality of the chairman of the first commit- 
tee, Mr. Lunt, was so atrocious that he was politically defunct from that 
day. A slight circumstance or two may illustrate the state and temper 
of the times. While the committee were, with ostentatious negligence, 
keeping the abolitionists waiting, the Senate Chamber presented an in- 
teresting spectacle. The contemptuous committee, dawdling about 
some immaterial business, were lolling over a table, one twirling a pen, 
another squirting tobacco-juice, and a third giggling. The abolitionists, 
to whom this business was a prelude to life or death? were earnestly con} 
suiting in groups — at the further end of the chamber, Garrison and ano- 
ther, standing head to head — somewhat "nearer, Dr. Follen, looking 
German all over, and a deeper earnestness lhan usual overspreading his 
serene and meditative countenance ; and, in consultation with him, Mr. 
Loring, looking only too frail in form, but with a face radiant with 
inward light. There was May, and Goodell, and Sewall, and several 
more, and many an anxious wife, or sister, or friend, looking down 
from the gallery. During the suspense the door opened, and Dr. 
Channing entered — one of the last people that could on that wintry 
afternoon have been expected. He stood for a few moments muffled in 



SENATE OF MASSACHUSETTS. 29 

cloak and shawl-handkerchief, and then walked the whole length of the 
room, and was immediately seen shaking hands with Garrison.* A 
murmur ran through the gallery* and a smile went round the chamber. 
Mrs. Chapman whispered to her next neighbour, " Righteousness and 
peace have kissed each other." Garrison, the dauntless Garrison, 
turned pale as ashes, and sank down on a seat. Dr. Channing had 
censured the abolitionists in his pamphlet on slavery ; Garrison had, in 
the ' Liberator,' rejected the censure; and here they were shaking hands 
in the Senate Chamber. It was presently found that a pressure of 
numbers compelled an adjournment to the larger House of Representa- 
tives. There Dr. Channing sat behind the speakers, handing them notes, 
and most obviously affording them his countenance, so as to be from that 
day considered by the world as an accession to their principles, though 
not to their organized body. Another circumstance worthy of note is 
that a somewhat sophisticated well-wisher to the cause suggested that 
at the second meeting the gentlemen of the party alone should speak — 
such as Follen, Loring, and Sevvall ; and that the more homely and 
more openly-reviled members, Garrison and Gdfodell and others, should 
keep in the back ground: This was mentioned to Mrs. Chapman. Her 
righteous spirit rejected the counsel at once, on the ground of its false- 
ness of principle. " Besides," said she, " we owe it to Garrison to pro- 
tect him ; and his only protection is being placed in the midst of the 
gentlemen, where his foes dare not touch him. If we do not vigilantly 
keep him there," she continued, with swimming eyes and quivering lips, 
"he will be murdered next riot-season — he will be torn to pieces next 
autumn/' As it turned out, it was the eloquence of Garrison and 
Goodell that carried the day, and the inexperienced adviser owned him- 
self mistaken. Such are the small facts which indicate the temper of 
the times. 

The day was now passed when the insignificance of the abolition 
movement could be a subject for taunts. The tone of contempt had 
been kept up to the last possible moment; but that moment was gone 
by. A few legislatures had declared themselves, like that of Massachu- 
setts ; the Governor of Pennsylvania ("honest Joe Ritner," the waggon- 
er's boy,) had publicly reprobated the disposition of Northern members of 
Congress " to bow to the dark spirit of slavery ;" all the candidates for 
state offices in Vermont, both of the federal and democratic party, were 
abolitionists ; and it might be said, as a general fact, that in New Eng- 
land, the yeomanry were with the abolitionists, while the large commer- 
mercial and manufacturing towns were as strenuous in their opposition 
as ever. The number of societies, though multiplying from day to day, 
had ceased to become an indication of the proportion of abolitionists in 
the community. There were now thousands, more or less animated by 
the cause, who, for various reasons (some of which reasons were very 
good), did notjoin societies. Dr. Channing entertains strong objections to 



,* He afterwards explained that he was not at the moment certain that it was 
Mr. Garrison, but that he was not the less happy to have shaken hands with him, 



30 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

associations for moral objects. Certain state legislators found they could 
effect more in the Chamber for being unpledged, and being known to 
speak from independent conviction. Many women, and Mrs. Follen at 
the head of such, held themselves ready to join at any moment, but felt 
that more aid might be given to the cause by fighting the battles of the 
abolitionists out of* the circle of partizanship than within it. Such have 
been among the most powerful defenders of the right for the last few 
years, while an inferior order of persons has been crowding into the 
abolition ranks. With the good of an accession of numbers must come 
the evil of a deterioration of quality ; and it is best that there should be a 
distribution of the noblest original spirits, — some continuing to lead 
societies, and others maintaining an independent position. But, under 
this arrangement, the multiplication of societies ceases to be a test of the 
increase of numbers. 

The President had now taken the matter in hand. General Jackson, 
the people's man, who talked of liberty daily, with energetic oaths and 
flourishes of the hand, inquired of Congress whether they could not pass 
a law prohibiting, under severe penalties, the transmission through the 
mails of anti-slavery publications,— or, as he worded it, of publications 
«' intended to excite the slaves to insurrection." Mr. Calhoun, the great 
bulwark of slavery, declared in Congress that such a measure would be 
unconstitutional ; but that a bill which he had prepared would answer 
the purpose. This was the celebrated Gag Bill. We insert it, as 
amended for the third reading, as we could not expect of our readers 
that they should credit our report of its contents. Here stands the Bill 
which in 1836 was read a third time in the Senate of a Republican 
Congress — 

" A Bill 

" For prohibiting deputy postmasters from receiving or transmitting through the 
mail to any State, Territory, or District, certain papers therein mentioned, 
the circulation of which, by the laws of said State, Territory, or District, may 
be prohibited, and for other purposes. 

" Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That it shall not be lawful for any deputy post- 
master in any State, Territory, or District, of the United States, knowingly to 
deliver to any person whatever, any pamphlet, newspaper, handbill, or other 
printed paper or pictorial representation touching the subject of slavery, where, 
by the laws of the said State, Territory, or District, their circulation is prohibit- 
ed • and any deputy postmaster who shall be guilty thereof, shall be forthwith 
removed from office. 

" Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That nothing in the acts of the Congress 
to establish and regulate the Post Office Department shall be construed to pro- 
tect any deputy postmaster, mail-carrier, or other officer or agent of said Depart- 
ment, who shall knowingly circulate, in any State, Territory, or District, as 
aforesaid, any such pamphlet, newspaper, handbill, or other printed paper or 
pictorial representation, forbidden by the laws of such State, Territory, or Dis- 
trict. 

" Sec 5. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the deputy 
postmasters of the offices where the pamphlets, newspapers, handbills, or other 
printed papers or pictorial representations aforesaid, may arrive for delivery, 
shall, under the instructions of the Postmaster-General, from time to time give 



ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. 31 

notice of the same, so that they may be withdrawn by the person who deposited 
them originally to be mailed, and if the same shall not be withdrawn in one 
month thereafter, shall be burnt or otherwise destroyed." 

Mr Van Buren, now President of the United States, was then Vice- 
President, and held the casting vote in the Senate. Every one knows 
his terror of committing himself. What must have been his feelings 
when his casting vote was called for as to the third reading of this Bill ? 
He was standing behind a pillar, talking, when the votes were declared 
to be eighteen to eighteen. " Where's the Vice-President ?" shouted 
Mr. Calhoun's mighty voice. Mr. Van Buren came forward, and voted 
for the third reading. " The Northern States are sold !" groaned the 
New England senators, with one voice. By their strenuous efforts the 
bill was thrown out on the third reading. If it had passed, it would 
have remained to be seen, as the abolitionists remarked, "whether seven 
millions of freemen should become slaves, or two and a half millions of 
slaves should become free ?" 

For men and women engaged in a moral enterprise so stupendous as 
that under notice, there is no rest. It is well for them that the per- 
spective of their toils is shrouded from them when they set forth ; for 
there is perhaps no human soul that could sustain the whole cer- 
tainty. Not a day's repose can these people snatch. If they were to 
close their eyes upon their mission for even the shortest interval, 
they would find that new dangers had gathered, and that their work 
was in arrear. Towards the end of 1836, the abolitionists felt their 
prospects were darker than ever. The annexation of Texas to the 
Union seemed an evil scarcely possible to be averted : and, if it were not 
averted, their enterprise was thrown back centuries. Instead of sinking 
into despair at seeing the success of their foes in flattering, not only the 
worldly interests of the sordid and ambitious part of society, but the best 
feelings of the superficial and thoughtless, they made a tremendous 
effort. Mr. Child began with an admirable exposure of the Texas 
scheme in the ' Anti-Slavery Quarterly Magazine,' and Dr. Channing 
finished the business (for the present) by his noble tract. As for the 
rest, " they sounded a tocsin of alarm that aroused the land to a sense of 
its danger; they sent their appeals, warnings, and remonstrances into 
every part of the republic; they held meetings by day and by night, 
with reference solely to this momentous question ; they covered the 
entire surface of the nation with tracts, circulars, and papers, revealing 
the designs of the southern planters ; in short, they put into motion all 
that has been done for the perpetual exclusion of Texas from the 
American confederacy. At the extra session of Congress in September, 
through their instrumentality, in the course of a few weeks, many thou- 
sand petitions, signed by hundreds of thousands of men and women 
were received by that body, remonstrating against the annexation in 
strong and emphatic language. Never before had the people made such 
a demonstration of their will in the form of petition." It was a noble 
spectacle — the bulk of a nation protesting against an acquisition of terri- 
tory, on the ground of its being wrong. 

In August of this year it became known to the abolitionists in Boston 



32 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

that a child was in the city, brought as a slave from New Orleans, and 
to be carried back thither as a slave. They determined to attempt the 
rescue of this child bylaw. If they failed, she was only as she was 
before ; if they succeeded, the case would be a parallel one with that of 
Sommersett in England, under Lord Mansfield's famous decision. The 
laws of Massachusetts were appealed to, as had been proposed, without 
good result, in similar cases before. This time the case was in the hands 
of sound lawyers, and tried before acourageousjudge, Chief Justice Shaw. 
The child was declared free ; and her happy fate decides that of all slaves 
(except fugitives) who shall henceforth touch the soil of Massachusetts. 
The newspapers opened out in full cry against her protectors, for having 
separated her from her mother. They overlooked the fact that parental 
claims merge in those of the master; that a slave-child is not pre- 
tended to belong to its parents; and that if the owner of this particular 
child views the relation in the right light, he has nothing to do but 
to emancipate the mother. The newspapers, however, declared of the 
counsel and others concerned, " they can never fully expiate their 
crimes, until offences such as theirs are punished by imprisonment at 
hard labour for life." Mr. Ellis Gray Loring, by whom the cause was 
gained, is one of the last people in the world on whom the charge of 
fanaticism could be fixed. He is a lover of ease — of intellectual, re- 
fined ease — but still of ease. He is in frail* health, and his temper is 
somewhat indolent, and very domestic and retiring ; his intellect is con- 
templative, and his tastes somewhat unsocial. It must be something 
very unlike fanaticism that can bring such a man out of his retirement 
into the storm which has for some years been pelting around him, and 
from which he might have shrouded himself, if any man might. The 
decision of Judge Shaw in the case of this slave child was presently fol- 
lowed in Connecticut; and, within a very short time, the abolitionists 
obtained right of jury trial for persons arrested as fugitive slaves in the 
states of Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Vermont. 

At the beginning of the remarkable year 1 837, great confusion was 
excited in Congress by Mr. Adams's management of a low jest aimed 
at him by the Southern members. A petition was sent to him signed by 
nine slaves, requesting of the House of Representatives to expel him, on 
the ground of the countenance he afforded to the petitions of persons 
who would put an end to the blessed institution of slavery. Mr. 
Adams presented this document as if it was a bondjide petition. The 
uproar in the House was tremendous ; but the attention of the members 
was fairly fixed upon the right of petition as held by slaves, and the 
venerable ex-President has since been acting a more heroic part than 
any of his predecessors on that floor have ever been called to go through. 
The name of John Quincy Adams will stand out bright from the page 
of American history for ever, as the vindicator of the right of petition in 
the perilous times of the republic. We pass over, as well known, the 
conflict on Mr. Pinckney's resolutions, the speeches of the Southern 
members (after their late complacent assurances that the subject of 
slavery would never be breathed in Congress) and the new President's 
somewhat fool-hardy declaration against any relaxation of the present 
state of things in regard to slavery, in his inaugural address, on the 4th 



GENERAL CONVENTION OF WOMEN. 33 

of March. Our space is only too narrow for the two other great events 
of the year, which are less widely understood. 

During the second week of May was held the first General Conven- 
tion of Women that was ever assembled. Modest as were its preten- 
sions, and quietly as it was conducted, it will stand as a great event in 
history — from the nature of the fact itself, and probably from the im- 
portance of its consequences. " This," says the Report, reasonably 
enough, " was the beginning of an examination of the claims and cha- 
racter of their clergy, which will end only with a reformation, hardly less 
startling or less needed than that of Luther." 

One resolution was passed to the effect that it was immoral to sepa- 
rate persons of colour from the rest of society, and especially in churches ; 
and that the members of the Convention pledged themselves to procure 
for the coloured people, if possible, an equal choice with themselves of 
sittings in churches ; and, where this was not possible, to take their seats 
with the despised class. Another resolution was to this effect, " that 
whereas our fathers, husbands, and brothers have devoted themselves to 
the rescue of the enslaved, at the risk of ease, reputation, and life, we, 
their daughters, wives, and sisters, honouring their conduct, hereby 
pledge ourselves to uphold them by our sympathy, to share their sacri- 
fices, and vindicate their characters." After having discharged their 
function, and gained some strength of heart and enlightenment of mind 
by their agreement in feeling and differences of opinion, these women 
went home, to meet again the next year at Philadelphia. 

On the 27th of June, the orthodox clergy took up their position 
against the abolitionists. The occasion was the General Association of 
Massachusetts Clergymen. The movement begun by the Resolutions 
then passed, worthy of the dark ages, was kept up by a set of sermons, 
in which this magnanimous clergy came out to war against women — 
the Misses Grimke in particular. It is wonderful how many of these 
sermons ended with a simile about a vine, a trellis, and an elm. 

It is evident to those who remember the conference between George 
Thompson and Mr Breckinridge at Glasgow, that it would be unwise 
in the American clergy to provoke an inquiry into the conduct of their 
body during the great moral struggle of the age. See the effect 
already : — 

" As there is no royal road to mathematics, so there is no clerical road to 
abolition. The principles are too pure to admit of caste, even though it were 
the high Braminical. A general may not file the abolitionists to the right 
and left, and enter at literal beat of drum; nor may a clergyman claim to be 
speaker, as in a church meeting, by virtue of his office; nor may a woman plead 
her sex's pernicious privileges, or pretended disabilities. Women of New Eng- 
land ! we are told of our powerful indirect influence ; our claims on man's gal- 
lantry and chivalry. We would not free all the slaves in Christendom by indi- 
rection — suck indirection. We trust to be strengthened for any sacrifices in 
their cause ; but we may not endanger our own souls for their redemption. — 
Let our influence be open and direct : such as our husbands and brethren will 
not blush to see us exercise."—" When ©lergymen plead usage and immemorial 
eustom in favour of unutterable wrong, and bid us keep silence for courtesy 
and put the enginery of church organization in play as a hindrance to our cause 

D 



34 THE MARTYR AGE OP THE UNITED STATES. 

and not as a help, our situation calls for far more strenuous exertion than when, 
in 1855, the freedom of the women of Boston was vilely bartered away in the 
merchant-thronged street. Our situation is as much more perilous now as 
spiritual is more dreadful than temporal outrage. We have no means to 
strengthen and nourish our spirits but by entertaining and obeying the free Spirit 
of God." — " As yet our judgment is unimpaired by hopes of the favour, and 
our resolution undamped by the fear of the host who oppose us. As yet our 
hearts are not darkened by the shadow of unkindness. We listen to clerical 
appeals, and religious magazines, and the voices of an associated clergy, as 
though we heard them not, so full on the ear of every daughter among us falls 
the cry of the fatherless and those who have none to help them — so full in every 
motherly heart and eye rises the image of one pining in captivity, who cannot 
be comforted because her children are not." — Right and Wrong in Boston, hi, 
pp. 73, 75, 86. 

As no degree of violence, directed to break up the meetings of the 
Ladies' Society, was too strong for the consciences of certain of the gen- 
tlemen of Boston, so no device was clearly too low for their purpose of 
hindering utterance. When they found they could not stop the women's 
tongues by violence, they privily sprinkled cayenne pepper on the stove 
of their place of meeting, thus compelling them to cough down their 
own speakers. 

A resident of Boston was expressing to an European traveller one 
day, in the year 1836, his regret that strangers should be present in the 
country when its usual quiet and sobriety were disturbed. " I am 
glad," observed the traveller, " to have been in the country in its martyr 
a ae." — "Martyr age ! martyr age !" cried a clergyman, remarkable for 
the assiduity of his parochial visiting, " What do you mean ? We 
don't burn people in Smithfaeld here." — '-'No," replied the stranger, 
" because ' Boston refinement' will not bear the roasting of the bodies of 
men and women : but you come as near to this pass as you dare. You 
rack their consciences and wring their souls." — " Our martyr age ! our 
martyr age !" the clergyman went on muttering to himself, in all the ex- 
citement of a new idea. 

The other great event of the year concerned the freedom of the press, 
and was as remarkable in its consecpaences as it was interesting in itself. 
Never was there a case of martyrdom more holy than that which we are 
about to relate. Never was there more complete evidence that a man 
in the prime of life, attached to the world by the tenderest ties, and of 
a calm, rational mind, was able long to sustain the apprehension of 
violent death, and to meet it at last, rather than yield up a principle which 
he knew to be true. He could not give up truth for safety and life — no, 

not even for wife and child. Elijah P. Lovejoy was a native of Maine, 

a graduate of Waterville College. He settled at St. Louis, Missouri, 
and attained a high reputation as editor of a newspaper there. He 
became a clergyman, and at length an abolitionist. After the burning 
of Mcintosh, at St. Louis, he spoke out in his newspaper about the 
atrocity of the deed, and exposed the iniquities of the district judge, and 
of the mob which overawed Marion College, and brought two of the 
students before a Lynch Court, For this his press and types were 
destroyed, and he established himself on the opposite side of the river, 



E. P. LOVE.TOY. 35 

in the free State of Illinois. But the town of Alton, in which he put up 
his press, was as dangerous to him as if it had stood in a slave State. 
It was the resort of slave-traders, and of river -traders, who believed their 
interests to depend on the preservation of slavery; For some time after 
his settlement at Alton, he did not think it necessary to enter into 
express discussion of the slavery question. At length he saw it to be 
his duty to do so : he called together the supporters of the paper, and 
laid his views before them. They consented to let his conscience have 
free course : he did his duty, and his press was again destroyed by a 
mob. Twice more was his property annihilated in the same manner, 
without the slightest alteration of conduct on his part. His paper con- 
tinued to be the steady, dispassionate advocate of freedom, and reprover 
of violence. In October, 1 837, he wrote to a friend in New York, to 
unburthen his full head and heart. After having described the fury and 
murderous spirit of his assailants, and the manner in which for weeks 
his footsteps had been tracked by assassins, he proceeded — 

" And now, my dear brother, if you ask what are my own feelings at a time 
like this, I answer 3 perfectly calm, perfectly resigned. Though in the midst of 
danger, I have a constant sense of security that keeps me alike from fear and 
anxiety. I read the Bible, and especially the Psalms, with a delight, a refreshing 
of soul I never knew before. God has said, ' As thy day is, so shall thy strength 

be ;' and he has made his promise good. Pray for me. We have a few 

excellent brethren here, in Alton. They are sincerely desirous to know their 
duty at this crisis, and to do it : but as yet they cannot see that duty requires 
them to maintain their cause here, at all hazards. Of this be assured, the cause 
of truth still lives in Illinois, and will not want defenders. Whether our paper 
starts again will depend on our friends, East, West, North, and South. So far 
as depends on me, it shall go forward. By the blessing of God, I will not aban- 
don the enterprise so long as I live, and until success has crowned it. And 
there are those in Illinois who join me in this resolution. And if I am to die, 
it cannot be in a better cause. 

" Your's, till death or victory, 

" E. P. Lovejoy." 

Death and victory were now both at hand. Two or three weeks after 
this letter was written, he was called before a large meeting of the towns- 
men, on a singular affair. A committee of gentlemen was appointed to 
mediate between the Editor of the ' Alton Observer' and the mob. They 
drew up a set of " Compromise Resolutions," so called, which yielded 
every thing to the mob, and required of Lovejoy to leave the place. One 
member of the committee, Mr. Gilman, remonstrated : but he was over- 
borne. Lovejoy was summoned, and required to leave the place. He 
listened till the chairman had said what he had to say, and then stepped 
forward to the bar. There, with grisly Murder peeping over his shoul- 
der, he bore his last verbal testimony in the following unpremeditated 
address, reported by a person present : — 

" I feel, Mr Chairman, that this is the most solemn moment of my life. I 
feel, I trust, in some measure, the responsibilities which at this hour I sustain to 
these my fellow-citizens, to the church of which I am a minister, to my country, 
and to God. And let me beg of you, before I proceed further, to construe 



36 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

nothing I shall say as being disrespectful to this assembly ; I have no such feeling ; 
far from it. And if I do not act or speak according to their wishes at all times, 
it is because 1 cannot conscientiously do it. It is proper I should state the 
whole matter, as I understand it, before this audience. 1 do not stand here to 
argue the question as presented by the honourable gentleman,* the chairman of 
that committee, for whose character I entertain great respect, though I have not 
the pleasure of his personal acquaintance : my only wonder is how that gentle- 
man could have brought himself to submit such a Report. 

Mr. Chairman, I do not admit that it is the business of this assembly to de- 
cide whether I shall or shall not publish a newspaper in this city. The gentle- 
men have, as the lawyers say, made a wrong issue. I have the right to do it. I 
know that I have the right to speak and publish my sentiments, subject only to 
the laws of the land for the abuse of that right. This right was given me by my 
Maker, and is solemnly guaranteed to me by the constitution of these United 
States, and of this State. What I wish to know of you is, whether you will 
protect me in the exercise of this right, or whether, as heretofore, I am to be 
subjected to personal indignity and outrage. These resolutions, and the measures 
proposed by them, are spoken of as a compromise ; a compromise between two 
parties. Mr. Chairman, this is not so ; there is but one party here. It is simply 
a question whether the law shall be enforced, or whether the mob shall be 
allowed, as they now do, to continue to trample it under their feet, by violating 
with impunity the rights of an innocent individual. Mr. Chairman, what have 
■I to compromise ? If freely to forgive those who have so greatly injured me; if 
to pray for their temporal and eternal happiness ; if still to wish for the pros- 
perity of your city and State, notwithstanding all the indignities 1 have suffered 
in it ; if this be the compromise intended, then do I willingly make it. My 
rights have been shamefully and wickedly outraged ; this I know and feel, and 
can never forget ; but I can and do freely forgive those who have done it. 

" But if by a compromise is meant, that I should cease doing that which duty 
requires of me, I cannot make it. And the reason is, that I fear God more than 
I fear man. Think not that I would lightly go contrary to public sentiment 
around me. The good opinion of my fellow-men is dear to me, and I would 
sacrifice any thing but principle to obtain their good wishes ; but when they ask 
me to surrender this, they ask for more than I can — thanT dare give. Refer- 
ence is made to the fact, that I offered, a few days since, to yield up the editor- 
ship of the ' Observer' into other hands. This is true, I did so; because it was 
thought, or said by some, that perhaps the paper would be better patronised in 
other hands. They declined accepting my offer, however, and since then we 
have heard from the friends and supporters of the paper in all parts of the State. 
There was but one sentiment among them, and this was that the paper should 
be sustained in no other hands than mine. It is also a very different question, 
whether I shall voluntarily, or at the request of friends, yield up my post, or 
whether I shall forsake it at the demand of a mob. The former I am at all 
times ready to do, when circumstances seem to require it, as I will never put my 
personal wishes or interests in competition with the cause of that Master whose 
minister I am; but the latter, be assured, I never will do. God in his provi- 
dence — 60 say all my brethren, and so I think — has devolved upon me the 
responsibility of maintaining my ground here; and Mr. Chairman, I am deter- 
mined to do it. A voice comes to me from Maine, from Massachusetts, from 
Connecticut, from New York, from Pennsylvania; yea, from Kentucky, from 
Mississippi, from Missouri, calling upon me in the name of all that is dear to 
heaven and earth, to stand fast ; and, by the help of God, I will stand. I 



* Hon. Cyrus Edwards, Senator from Madison County, and Whig Candidate for 
Governor. 



E. P. love.toy's address. 37 

know I am but one, and you are many. My strength would avail but little 
against you all ; you can crush me if you will, but I shall die at my post, for I 
cannot and will not forsake it. Why should I flee from Alton ? Is not this a 
free State ? When assailed by a mob in St. Louis, I came here as to the home 
of freedom and of the laws. The mob have pursued me here, and why should I 
retreat again ? Where can I be safe, if not here? Have I not a right to claim 
the protection of the laws? and what more can I have in any other place ? Sir, 
the very act of retreating will embolden the mob to follow me wherever I go. 
No, sir, there is no way to escape the mob, but to abandon the path of duty ; 
and that, God helping me, I never will do. 

" It has been said here that my hand is against every man and every man's 
hand against me. The last part of the declaration is too painfully true. I do 
indeed find almost every hand lifted against me, but against whom in this place 
has my hand been raised ? I appeal to every individual present ; whom of you 
have I injured ? whose character have I traduced ? whose family have I molest- 
ed ? whose business have I meddled with ? If any, let him rise here, and testify 
against me. — No one answers. 

"And do not your resolutions say that you find nothing against my private or 
personal character? And does any one believe that if there was anything to be 
found, it would not be found and brought forth ? If in anything I have offended 
against the law, am I so popular in this community as that it would be difficult 
to convict me? You have courts and judges and juries; they find nothing 
against me ; and now, you have come together for the purpose of driving out a 
confessedly innocent man, for no cause but that he dares to think and speak as 
his conscience and his God dictate. Will conduct like this stand the scrutiny 
of your country, of posterity, above all, of the judgment day? For, remember, 
the Judge of that day is no respecter of persons. 

" Pause, I beseech you, and reflect. The present excitement will soon be 
over ; the voice of conscience will at last be heard ; and in some season of honest 
thought, even in this world, as you review the scenes of this hour, you will be 
compelled to say, ' he was right — he was right.' 

" But you have been exhorted to be lenient and compassionate, and in driving 
me away, to affix no unnecessary disgrace upon me. Sir, I reject all such com- 
passion. You cannot disgrace me. Scandal, falsehood, and calumny have done 
their worst. My shoulders have borne the burden till it sits easy upon them. 
You may hang me up, as the mob hung up the individuals at Vicksburg; you may 
burn me at the stake, as they did M'lntosh at St. Louis ; you may tar and feather 
me, or throw me into the Mississippi, as you have often threatened to do ; but 
you cannot disgrace me. I, and I alone, can disgrace myself; and the deepest of 
all disgrace would be, at a time like this, to deny my Master by forsaking his 
cause. — He died for me, and I were most unworthy to bear his name, should I 
refuse, if need be, to die for him. 

" Again, you have been told that I have a family who are dependent upon 
me, and this has been given as a reason why I should be driven off* as gently as 
possible. It is true, Mr Chairman, I am a husband and a father : and this it is 
that adds the bitterest ingredient to the cup of sorrow I am called to drink. I 
am made to feel the wisdom of the Apostle's advice, ' It is better not to marry.' 
I know, sir, that in this contest, I stake not my life onhy, but that of others also. 
I do not expect my wife will ever recover from the shock received at the awful 
scenes through which she was called to pass at St. Charles. And how was it 
the other night on my return to my home ? I found her driven into the garret 
through fear of the mob, who were prowling round my house. And scarcely 
had I entered the house ere my windows were broken by the brickbats of the 
mob, and she so alarmed as rendered it impossible for her to sleep or rest that 
night. I am hunted as a partridge on the mountain. I am pursued as a felon 
through your streets; to the guardian power of the law I look in vain for that 
protection against violence, which even the vilest criminal may enjoy. Yet think 



38 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

not that I am unhappy. — Think not that I regret the choice that I have made; 
while all around me is violence and tumult, all is peace within. An approving 
conscience and the rewarding smiJe of God are a full recompense for all that I 
forego, and all that I endure. Yes, sir, I enjoy a peace which nothing can 
destroy. I sleep sweetly and undisturbed, except when awakened by the brick- 
bats of the mob. 

" No, sir, I am not unhappy ; I have counted the cost, and stand prepared 
freely to offer up my all in the service of God. Yes, sir, I am fully aware of 
all the sacrifice I make, in here pledging myself to continue the contest until 
the last. (Forgive these tears. I had not intended to shed them, and they flow not 
for myself, but for others.) — But I am commanded to forsake father and mother, 
wife and children, for Jesus' sake; and as his professed disciple, I stand pledged 
to do it. The time for fulfilling this pledge in my case, it seems to me, has 
come. Sir, I dare not flee away from Alton ; should I attempt it, I should feel 
that the angel of the Lord, with his flaming sword, was pursuing me wherever I 
went. It is because I fear God, that I am not afraid of all who oppose me in 
this city. No, sir, the contest has commenced here, and here it must be finished. 
Before God and you all, I here pledge myself to continue it, if need be, till 
death; and if I fall, my grave shall be made in Alton." 

A few clays after this he was murdered. His office was surrounded 
by an armed mob, and defended from within by a guard furnished by 
the Mayor of Alton. When the attack was supposed to be over, Love- 
joy looked out to reconnoitre. He received five bullets in his body, was 
able to reach a room on the first floor, declared himself fatally wounded, 
and fell on his face dead. His age was thirty-two. 

A letter from a Boston abolitionist to a friend bears on one page the 
following : — " E. P. Lovejoy, at xllton, is fairly suffering the persecu- 
tion of St. Paul. Alton is anxious for the trade of Missouri. and the 
lower Mississippi, and is willing to sacrifice a few abolitionists to con- 
ciliate its slave-holding customers. Lovejoy has been three times 
mobbed," &c, &c, &c. — " The Attorney-General of Illinois said, at a 
meeting of gentlemen ' of property and standing,' that the community 
ought not to resort to violence ' until it became absolutely necessary.' 
Thank heaven, it is now beginning to be Illinois versus Alton. The 
spirit is rising among the fanners, and Lovejoy will yet conquer the 
State." The next page begins, — "I have just heard of the murder of 
Lovejoy at Alton. He was shot by an armed mob. Now he will 
indeed conquer the State, and, I trust, the nation. I meant to have 
given you my budget of gossip ; but my heart is very full, and I cannot 
write more now." 

In a note to his tract on Slavery, Dr. Channing had said, a year 
before this, "One kidnapped, murdered abolitionist would do more for 
the violent destruction of slavery than a thousand societies. His name 
would be sainted. The day of his death would be set apart for solemn, 
heart-stirring commemoration. His blood would cry through the land 
with a thrilling voice, would pierce every dwelling, and find a response 
in every heart." These latter clauses have come true. The anniversary 
of Lovejoy's death will be a sacrament day to his comrades till slavery 
shall be no more : and as for the careless part of the community, — the 
multitudes who were too busy eating and drinking, planting, trading, or 
amusing themselves, to know the pangs that were rending the very heart 



THE BOSTON REQUISITION. 39 

of their society, — those who considered abolitionism too "low" a subject 
for their ears, and the abolitionists too "odd" a set of people for their 
notice, — the shock of murder has roused even these from their apathy, 
and carried into their minds some notion that they are living- in remark- 
able times, and that they have some extraordinary neighbours. We 
believe that no steps have been taken to punish the murderers; but 
such punishment was urged by the newspapers even in the slave States ; 
and the cry of reprobation of the deed was vehement from all the more 
enlightened parts of the Union. Dr. Channing did his duty well. The 
rioters at Alton were heard encouraging- one another bv reference to old 
Boston. The time was at hand for them to learn that there was right 
as well as wrong in the time-honoured city. 

It was proposed to hold a meeting in Boston, where there should be 
no distinction of sect or party, and no reference to any anti-slavery 
organization, to express the alarm and horror of the citizens at the view 
of the prostration of civil liberty, and at the murder of a Christian 
minister for daring to maintain his inalienable and constitutional rights. 
Application was made to the authorities for the use of Faneuil Hall for 
the occasion, — Dr. Channing's name being placed at the head of the 
requisition. The authorities were intimidated by a counter-petition, 
and refused the use of the Hall, on the ground of the request not being 
in accordance with public sentiment ! 

A spontaneous meeting of citizens was held to discuss the re- 
fusal of the authorities. The consequence was that the very same 
requisition was again tendered to the authorities, with such a mass 
of signatures to it that its prayer was granted with an obsequious- 
ness as remarkable as the previous insult. Faneuil Hall was thrown 
open on the 8th of December, and crowded. The chair was taken 
by a respected citizen, who was allied with no party, — Mr. Jona- 
than Phillips. The resolutions were prepared by Dr. Channing. 
Neither he, nor the chairman, nor any one but the organized abolition- 
ists (who have good reason to know their townsmen) was fully aware of 
the crisis to which this meeting brought the fate of the abolitionists 
throughout the community. It hung at last, for the space of three 
minutes, upon the lips of one very young speaker, who was heard only 
because of his rank. It came to the turn of a hair whether the atrocious 
mob-speech of the Attorney-General should be acted upon, or whether 
he should be overwhelmed with the reprobation of society ; whether the 
abolitionists should have the alternative of being murdered at home, and 
being driven into the wilderness, or whether liberty of speech and the 
press should prevail. Happily, the eloquence of young Wendell Phillips 
secured the victory. Among other discoveries, the Attorney- General 
announced that Lovejoy died "as a fool dieth," and that his murderers 
were patriots of the same order as the Tea-Party of the Revolution. 
An extract from a private letter will best describe this critical meeting : 

" You will have heard of Dr. Channing's recent exploit. The massacre of 
one of our beloved friends in the West for being an abolitionist, and acting up to 
his principles, induced Dr. C. to sign a call for a public-indignation meeting in 
Faneuil Hall. It was a noble sight, — that hall on that clay. The morning 



40 THE MARTYR AGE OF TjHE UNITED STATES. 

sunlight never streamed in over such a throng. By night it has been closer 
packed ; but never, they tell ine, by day. 1 went (for the Woman Question), 
with fifteen others. The indignation at us was great. People said it gave the 
meeting the air of an abolition gathering to have women there ; it hung out false 
colours. Shame ! when it was a free discussion meeting, and nothing more, that 
women should have ' given colour to the idea that it was for abolition purposes.' 
Good, is it not, that sixteen women can give a character to a meeting of twenty- 
five hundred men ? O that you had been there ! A hundred women or so in 
a drawing-room, gathered together by a new application of religious and demo- 
cratic, viz. Christian principles, was all that Boston had to show you when you 
were here. But this Faneuil Hall gathering, to protect the minority in the appli- 
cation of their principles, was an imposing spectacle. The meeting began with 
prayer; no sound but that sublime one in stirring times — the sound of many feet 
on a public floor. You know Dr. Channing's voice is low, and Faneuil Hall is 
empty of seats. The crowd surged up closer round the platform; and ever as 
they made room the space behind filled in. The counting-houses disgorged for 
the occasion, and I think Dr. Channing must have seen his mistake as to the 
good state of heart of his neighbours and townsmen. One-third of the meeting, 
I think, were abolitionists and free discussionists (small proportion of the for- 
mer); one-third of bitter opponents; and one-third swayed to and fro by every 
speaker. The name of Dr. Channing probably kept this floating third up to the 
pitch of an affirmative note on certain resolutions he had prepared. James T. 
Austin (Attorney-General) was there, and made a diabolical speech. It was 
loudly cheered. I gave up all hopes of a favourable termination of the meeting 
then. He tried to raise a storm of indignation, but failed, baffled by the effort 
of a very dear young friend and connexion of ours, who, from being of a good 
family (Republicanism !) was enabled to get a hearing, though an abolitionist, 
and an agent of the abolition society. Wm. Sturgis and George Bond, when he 
was almost overpowered by the clamour, threw in their weight on the right side, 
and free discussion of the subject of free discussion prevailed. So much for the 
local aspect of the cause at present. Stout men — rny husband for one — came 
home that day, and ' lifted up their voices and wept.' Dr. Channing did not know 
how dangerous an experiment (as people count danger) he adventured. We 
knew that we must send the children out of the town, and sleep in our day-gar- 
ments that night, unless free discussion prevailed. Lovejoy stood upon the 
defensive, as the Bill of Rights and New England Divinity bear him out in 
having done. His death lies, in a double sense, at the door of the church; for 
she trained him to self-defence, and then attacked him. This new aspect of the 
cause, orthodox church opposition to it as a heresy, has presented itself since you 
were here, and a most perilous crisis it has been. I think the ship has righted ; but 
she was on her beam-ends so long, that I thought all was ever for 'this 200 
years,' as Dr. Beecher says. I have just sent off 55,000 women's signatures for 
the abolition in the District,* — a weary labour. My brain turns with the count- 
ing and indorsing. I wrote well on them for the honour of Massachusetts, 
which is the reason I write so badly to you now. I am thoroughly tired. God 
be with you evermore !" 

The second General Convention of Women was held, as appointed, 
at Philadelphia, in the spring- of 1838. Once, again, has the 
intrepidity of these noble Christian women been put to the proof; the 
outrages in this " city of brotherly love" having been the most fearful 
to which they have yet been exposed. The cause of the extraordinary 



* Columbia. 



CONVENTION AT PHILADELPHIA. 41 

violences of this year is to be found in the old maxim that men hate 
those whom they have injured. The State Convention, which had been 
employed for many previous months in preparing a new constitution for 
Pennsylvania, had deprived the citizens of colour of the political rights 
which they had held (but rarely dared to exercise) under the old consti- 
tution. Having done this injury, the perpetrators, and those who as- 
sented to their act, were naturally on the watch against those whom 
they had oppressed, and were jealous of every movement. When the 
abolitionists began to gather to their Convention, when the liberal part 
of the Quaker population came abroad, and were seen greeting their 
fellow-emancipators in the city of Penn — when the doors of the fine 
new building, Pennsylvania Hall, were thrown open, and the people of 
colour were seen flocking thither, with hope in their faces, and with 
heads erect, in spite of the tyranny of the new laws, the hatred of their 
oppressors grew too violent for restraint. It was impossible to find 
reasonable and true causes of complaint against any of the parties con- 
cerned in the Convention, and falsehoods were therefore framed and 
circulated. Even these falsehoods were of a nature which makes it 
difficult for people on this side of the Atlantic to understand how they 
should be used as a pretext for such an excess of violence as succeeded. 
The charge against the abolitionists was, that they ostentatiously walked 
the streets arm-in-arm with people of colour. They did not do this, 
because the act was not necessary to the assertion of any principle, and 
would have been offensive ; but if they had, it might have been asked 
what excuse this was for firing Pennsylvania Hall ? 

The delegates met and transacted their business, as in the preceding 
year, but this time with a yelling mob around the doors. The mild 
voice of Angelina Weld was heard above the hoarse roar ; but it is said 
that the transient appearance of Maria Chapman was the most striking 
circumstance of the day. She was ill, and the heat of the weather was 
tremendous ; but, scarcely able to sustain herself under an access of 
fever, she felt it her duty to appear on the platform, showing once more 
that where shame and peril are, there is she. Commenting upon the 
circumstances of the moment, the strain of her exhortation accorded well 
with the angelic beauty of her countenance, and with the melting tones 
of her voice, and with the summary of duty which she had elsewhere 
presented : " Our principles teach us how to avoid that spurious charity 
which would efface moral distinctions, and that our duty to the sinner 
is, not to palliate, but to pardon ; not to excuse, but to forgive, freely, 
fully, as we hope to be forgiven." To these principles she has ever been 
faithful, whether she gathers her children about her knees at home, or 
bends over the pillow of a dying friend, or stands erect amidst the insults 
and outrages of a mob, to strengthen the souls of her fellow-sufferers. 
Her strain is ever the same — no compromise, but unbounded forgive- 
ness. 

If the authorities had done their duty, no worse mischief than threat 
and insult would have happened ; but nothing effectual was done in 
answer to a demonstration on the part of the mob, repeated for three or 
four nights ; so at last they broke into Pennsylvania Hall, heaped toge- 
ther the furniture and books in the middle of the floor, and burned them 



42 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

and the building- together. The circumstance which most dearly indi- 
cates the source of the rage of the mob was their setting fire to the 
Orphan Asylum for coloured children; a charity wholly unconnected 
with abolitionism, and in no respect, but the complexion of its inmates, 
on a different footing from any other charitable institution in the Quaker 
city. The Recorder interposed vigorously ; and, after the burning of 
the Hall, the city firemen undertook the protection of all the buildings 
in the place, public and private. The morning after the fire, the aboli- 
tionists were asked what they intended to do next. Their answer was 
clear and ready. They had already raised funds, and engaged workmen 
to restore their "Hall, and had issued their notices of the meeting of the 
third General Convention in the spring of 1839. They have since ap- 
plied for damages, which we believe the city agreed, without demur, to 
pay. It is astonishing that the absurdity of persecuting such people as 
these has not long been apparent to all eyes. Their foes might as well 
wage a pop-gun war against the constellations of the sky. 

The abolitionists, as a body, are now fairly recognized by the South. 
Mr. Bimey has been applied to by Mr. Elmore, a southern member of 
Congress, under the sanction of Mr. Calhoun himself, for a fulfilment of 
his offer to lay open all the affairs of the anti-slavery body. The affairs 
of the abolitienists have from the beginning been open to all the world ; 
the evil has been, that the world would not attend to them. Now, how- 
ever, "the South desires to learn the depth, height, and breadth of the 
storm which impends over her." She has learned what she wants, for 
Mr. Eirney has forwarded exceedingly full replies to the fourteen queries 
proposed by the southern representatives and senators. This, may be 
regarded as an extremely fortunate event. It is a most cheering testi- 
mony to the progress of the cause ; and it affords some hope that the 
South will take warning in time, and present an honourable exception 
to the conduct and catastrophe of a struggle for and relinquishment of 
irresponsible power. The hope is faint ; for instances are rare, if not 
unknown, of privileged bodies surrendering their total privileges on a 
merely moral summons. But again, instances are rare, if not unknown, 
of a privileged class appealing to a magnanimous foe for an exposure of 
his forces, his designs, and his expectations. Whatever irritability may 
display itself in the conduct of the appeal, the fact is highly honourable 
to both parties. To our minds, it is one of the most striking circum- 
stances of this majestic story. Mr. Birney's reply is far too long to be 
given here, even in the briefest abstract. It is extremely interesting, from 
the honourable accuracy and candour of its statements, and its absti- 
nence from all manifestation of the triumph which its facts might well 
justify. These important papers go by the name of the ' Elmore Cor- 
respondence.' 

The most melancholy feature of the struggle— more so than even the 
conduct of the clergy (which has been far more extraordinary than we 
have had space to relate) — is the degeneracy of Congress. The right of 
petition has been virtually annihilated for these three years past; and the 
nation has been left unrepresented on the most important question which 
has been occupying the nation's mind. The people hold their remedy 



SUMMARY. 43 

in the ballot-box. The elections are now going forward ; and we doubt 
not the electors will take care that such a suspension of their rights does 
not happen again. We understand, indeed, that the usual federal and 
democratic questions are in many cases laid aside at the present elections 
for the all-important one of the abolition of slavery in the District of 
Columbia, and the prohibition of the inter-state slave-trade. 

During the last year, several Halls of State Legislatures have been 
granted lo the abolitionists for their meetings, while the churches have 
remained closed against them. The aspect of these assemblages has 
been very remarkable, from the union of religious and political action 
witnessed there. But the most extraordinary spectacle of all — a spec- 
tacle perhaps unrivalled in the history of the world — was the address of 
Angelina Weld before a Committee of the Legislature of Massachu- 
setts. Some have likened it to the appeal of Hortensia to the Roman 
Senate ; but others have truly observed that the address of Angelina 
Weld was far the nobler of the two, as she complained not as the 
voice of a party remonstrating against injuries done to itself, but as the 
advocate of a class too degraded and helpless to move or speak on its 
own behalf. The gentle dignity of the speaker's manner, and the power 
of statement and argument shown in her address, together with the 
righteousness of her cauSe, won the sympathies of as large an audience 
as the State House would contain, and bore down all ridicule, prejudice, 
and passion. Two emotions divided the vast assemblage of hearers;— 
sympathy in her cause, and veneration for herself. The only fear now 
entertained by the abolitionists with regard to the cause in the leading 
State of Massachusetts, is lest it should become too flourishing, and lose 
something of its rectitude in its prosperity. 

The history of this struggle seems to yield a few inferences which 
must, we think, be evident to all impartial minds; and which are as 
important as they are clear. One is, that this is a struggle which cannot 
subside till the right has prevailed. If this be true, the consequence of 
yielding to it would be the saving of a world of guilt and woe. Another 
is, that other sorts of freedom, besides emancipation from slavery, will 
come in with it; that the aristocratic spirit, in all its manifestations, is 
being purged out of the community ; that with every black slave a white 
will be also freed. Another is, that republicanism is in no degree 
answerable for the want of freedom and of peace under which the 
American nation is now suffering ; that, on the contrary, the turbulence 
and tyranny are the immediate and visible offspring of the old world, 
feudal, European spirit which still lives in the institution assailed, and 
in the bosoms of the aristocracy of the country, while the bulwarks of 
the Constitution, the true republicans, are the " peacemen," the suffer- 
ers, the moral soldiers, who have gone out armed only with faith, hope, 
and charity. Another is, that the coloured people have a promising- 
morale on which to ground their civilization. Their whole conduct 
affords evidences of generosity, patience, and hopefulness, from which 
fine results of character may be anticipated whenever this unfortunate 
race shall have leave to exert its unfettered energies under circumstances 
of average fairness. 



44 THE MARTYR AGE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

It is a wide world that we live in, as wonderful in the diversity of its 
moral as of its natural features. A just survey of the whole can leave 
little doubt that the abolitionists of the United States are the greatest 
people now living and moving in it. There is beauty in the devoted- 
ness of the domestic life of every land : there is beauty in the liberality 
of the philosophers of the earth, in the laboriousness of statesmen, in the 
beneficence of the wealthy, in the faith and charity of the poor. All 
these graces flourish among this martyr company, and others with them, 
which it is melting to the very soul to contemplate. To appreciate 
them fully one must be among them. One must hear their diversity of 
tongue, — from the quaint Scripture phraseology of the Pilgrims to the 
classical language of the scholar — to estimate their liberality. One must 
witness the eagerness with which each strives to bring clown the storm 
upon his own head to save his neighbour, and to direct any transient 
sunshine into his friend's house rather than his own, to understand their 
generosity. One must see the manly father weeping over his son's 
blighted prospects, and the son vindicating his mother's insulted name, 
to appreciate their disinterestedness. One must experience something 
of the soul-sickness and misgiving caused by popular hatred, and of the 
awful pangs of an apprehended violent death, to enter fully into their 
heroism. Those who are living in peace afer off can form but a faint 
conception of what it is to have no respite, no prospect of rest, of secu- 
rity, of success, within any calculable time. The grave, whether it 
yawns beneath their feet, or lies on the far horizon, is, as they well know, 
their only resting-place : adversity is all around them, like the whirl- 
wind of the desert. But, if all this can be scarcely conceived of at a 
distance, neither can their bright faces be seen there. Nowhere but 
among such can an array of countenances be beheld so little lower than 
the angels'. Ordinary social life is spoiled to them ; but another which 
is far better has grown up among them. They had more life than others 
to begin with, as the very fact of their enterprise shows: and to them 
that have much shall more be given. They are living fast and loftily. 
The weakest of them who drops into the grave worn out, and the young- 
est that lies murdered on his native republican soil, has enjoyed a richer 
harvest of time, a larger gift out of eternity, than the octogenarian self- 
seeker, however he may have attained his ends. These things, as 
branches of general truths, may be understood at the distance of half 
the globe. Let us not, therefore, wait, as it has been the world's custom 
to wait, for another century to greet the confessors and martyrs who 
stretch out their strong arms to bring down Heaven upon our earth ; 
but even now, before they have stripped off care and sorrow with their 
mortal frame, — even now, while sympathy may cheer and thanks may 
animate, let us make our reverent congratulations heard over the ocean 
which divides us from the spiritual potentates of our age. 

H. M. 



NEWCASTLE i PRINTED EV J. EL&CKWELL AND CO., PILGRIM STREET. 



