REPORT 



INCORPORATED SOCIETY 



CONVERSION AND RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 
AND EDUCATION 



NEGRO SLAVES 



BRITISH WEST INDIA ISLANDS 



FOR THE YEAR 



MDCCCXXIV, 



LONDON : 

PRINTED BY R. GILBERT, 
ST. JOHN'S SQUARE. 

1825. 



res- is%h>bi *ms- 



Digitized by the Internet Archive ' 
in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportofincorporOOinco 



LIST of GOVERNORS. 



PRESIDENT. 

Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of London. 

VICE PRESIDENTS. 

Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Llandaff, Dean of St, Paul's. 

Right Honourable Robert Peel, M.P. 

Right Honourable the Lord Mayor of London. 

Very Reverend the Dean of Westminster. 

GOVERNORS 

Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Chester. 

Right Honourable Lord Kenyon. 

Right Honourable William Huskisson, M.P. President of the Board of Trade. 

Honourable and Rev. G. V. Wellesley, D.D. Canon Residentiary of St. Paul's. 

Right Honourable Henry Goulburn, M.P. 

Sir Henry William Martin, Bart. 

Sir William Curtis, Bart. > & ; Aldemen f the Cily f London . 

Sir Richard Carr Glyn, Bart. $ ~ 3 J 

Sir Christopher Robinson, Knt. Chancellor of the Diocese of London. 

Very Reverend the Dean of Canterbury, Rector of St. James, Piccadilly. 

Very Reverend the Dean of Carlisle, Rector of St. George, Hanover Square. 

Venerable J. H. Pott, M.A. Archdeacon of London. 

Venerable G. O. Cambridge, M.A. Archdeacon of Middlesex.' 

Venerable W. R. Lyall, M.A. Archdeacon of Colchester. 

Reverend Thomas Hughes, D.D. > Canms Residmtiary of St . PaaVs . 

Reverend F. W. Blomberg, D.D. S 

Reverend R. Macleod, D.D. Rector of St. Anne, Westminster. 

Reverend T. Willis, D.D. Rector of St. George, Bloomshury. 

Reverend F. Randolph, D.D. Rector of St. Paul, Covent Garden. 

Reverend G. Richards, D.D. Vicar of St. Martin in the Fields. 

Reverend G. D'Oyly, D.D. Rector of Lambeth, Surrey. 

Reverend C. Fynes Clinton D.C.L. ) R . & Prebendarks of Westminster. 

Reverend H. H. Edwards, M.A. y 

Reverend C. Benson, M.A. Rector of St. Giles in the Fields. 

Reverend G. Beresford, M.A. Rector of St. Andrew, TLolbovn. 

Reverend T. R. Wrench, M.A. Rector of St. Michael, CornhilL 

C. R. Ellis, Esq. M.P. 

William Manning, Esq. M.P. 

George Hibbert, Esq. 

G. Mathison, Esq. 

C. N. Pallmer, Esq. 

Joshua Watson, Esq. 

Major Moody. 

James Colquhoun, Esq. 

The Heir at Law of the Honourable Robert Boyle, Deceased. 

TREASURER. 
Thomas Porteus, Esq, 

SECRETARY. 

The Reverend Jonathan Tyers Barrett, D.D, 



Donations and Annual Subscriptions will be received by the 
following Bankers, viz. 
Messrs. Smith, Payne and Smith, Mansion House Street. 
Messrs. Barnard, Dimsdale and Dimsdale, Cornhill. 
Messrs. Sikes, Snaith, and Co. Mansion House Street. 
Messrs. Hoare, Fleet Street. 

Messrs. Cocks, Cocks, Ridge and Biddulph, Charing Cross. 
Messrs. Hamraersley, Pall Mall. 

Subscriptions now paid will be considered as given for trie 
Year ending at Christmas 1825. 



14, Duke Street, Westminster, 
27 Jan. 1825. 



EPORT, 

Sfc. fyc. 



The progress which has been made by the 
Society since the publication of the last Report, 
confirms the opinion which was then advanced 
by the Governors : " That with adequate pecu- 
niary support they could, under Providence, ef- 
fect every thing that could be expected from a 
society of this nature." 

Before however they enter upon a detail of 
their Proceedings for the last year, they cannot 
refrain from congratulating all who have the 
cause of true Religion at heart, upon the Esta- 
blishment of an Episcopal Government in the 
West Indies. Hitherto, for want of proper 
Ecclesiastical Authority, not only the settled 
and parochial Clergy of the Colonies, but also 
the assistant Chaplains whom the charity of 
this Country has provided as their helpers in 
the diffusion of Christian Knowledge, have 

B 



found themselves under innumerable disadvan- 
tages in discharging the various duties of their 
Holy Calling. While their flocks were de- 
prived of some of the offices prescribed by the 
Liturgy of the Church, the ministers were left 
without a power to relieve them : nor, while the 
erring and remiss remained without correction, 
had the faithful Shepherd where to turn for encou- 
ragement or advice in any of the numerous cases 
of doubt and difficulty which must necessarily 
belong to the Pastoral Charge. An event which 
has in prospect the termination of such priva- 
tions cannot but be hailed by the Governors of 
this Society with the warmest feelings of satis- 
faction and gratitude ; while they regard it as 
one which is not merely favourable to their 
designs, but indispensible to the perfection of 
a work, which may be contemplated by the 
reflecting mind as being permanent and sub- 
stantial. 

Having thus briefly alluded to this important 
event, the Governors enter upon the Report of 
their Proceedings during the year, both at Home 
and Abroad. 

The Subscriptions have increased since De- 
cember, 1823, from 494/. to upwards of 800/. ; 
and the Donations within the same period have 
amounted to the sum of 229/. 10«y. inclusive of 
100/. which has been received at the hands of 

13 



7. 

Wm. Mantling, Esq. M.P. from the Committee 
of an intended Insurance Company. It should 
here also be stated that C. R.Ellis, Esq. M.P. be- 
sides many other acts of munificence, has added 
to the stipend of the Society's Chaplain at Mon- 
tego Bay 100/. sterling per annum. 

The annual income of the Society, as may be 
seen by the account for the current year, an- 
nexed to this Report, now amounts to the sum 
of 3038/. 9s. ScL, being an increase upon the pre- 
ceding year of 351/. 13s. 8d.* 

Trifling as this increase ' is when compared 
with the pressing necessities of the Society, the 
Governors have ventured, to enlarge the number 
of their Chaplains and Catechists ; in the confi- 
dence that any embarrassments in which they 
might be involved by such anticipation, would be 
speedily removed on the case being fully known 
by the public. 

The arrears of rent which remained in the 
accounts of the Society's Agent for their Estate 
at Brqfferton, are gradually reducing ; and the 
balance of his last account, ending at Christmas, 
1824, is less than that of the preceding years 
by 100/. 8s. The favourable turn which has 
taken place in agricultural affairs will render it 
unnecessary to continue the liberal allowances 
which *have been made to the tenants in past 

* See Appendix, No. I. 
B 2 



years ; and thus at the close of a twelvemonth 
the Corporation will he restored to the enjoyment 
of its full income. 

In addition to the two Chaplains whom the 
Society had previously engaged for Demerara, 
the Rev. Stephen Isaacson, R.A. of Christ Col- 
lege, Cambridge, and the Rev. William Adams, 
B.A. of Trinity College, Oxford, have been ap- 
pointed to that Colony. The Rev. Wm. Hen- 
drickson* was engaged for Nevis, to co-operate 
with Mr. Davis, A Catechist, Mr. Wm. Dawes, 
the younger, has been placed at Antigua, upon 
the estate of the Rev, N. Gilbert ; that gentle- 
man having, in consequence of the removal of 
Mr. Luckock to Montserrat, gratuitously engaged 
in the Society's service. A Catechist has like- 
wise been placed under the Rev. R. F. King, in 
the Island of Barbados; and instructions have 
been sent out to the Rev. B. T. Nurse, at Deme- 
rara, authorizing him to obtain the like assist- 
ance. Thus, in the course of the present year, 
there has been an increase in the Society's Estab- 
lishment of four Chaplains and three Catechists. 

The Governors deeming it imprudent to pro- 
ceed further, and being unable to give appoint- 
ments to the numerous applicants for employ- 
ment, addressed to his Majesty's Government an 

* This gentleman has been since removed to St. Kilt's, as 
may be seen below. 



9 

earnest request for assistance ; whereupon mea- 
sures were adopted, under the direction of the 
Bishops, for the employment of those gentlemen 
whose services must otherwise have been lost to 
the West Indies. The list of applicants to the 
Society was in consequence of this measure re- 
duced for a time ; but since the period at which 
the Bishops sailed, it has again been increased 
by applications from many gentlemen, graduates 
of the Universities, and well qualified for the dis- 
charge of their professional duties by their mo- 
rals, piety, and attainments. 

With a view to the formation of Branch Asso- 
ciations in the West Indies, a brief statement of 
the objects to which these may be rendered sub- 
servient has been drawn up, and a draft of a 
course of proceeding in their establishment (sug- 
gested with a view to conformity and conve- 
nience) printed for distribution, as may be seen 
in the Appendix*. 

The fruits, which this measure has already 
produced, will be shewn under the head of the 
Society's affairs Abroad. 

The second Volume of Mr. Harte's Lectures 
upon the Gospel of St. Mattheio ha& been printed, 
and sent out to the Colonies for circulation. In 
addition to a distribution among the Society's 

* See Appendix, No. II. 



10 

Chaplains, 20 copies of this work have been sent 
to the Author in the Island of Barbados, 50 to 
Mr. Stainsby, in the Island of Jamaica, and 100 
placed at the command of the West Indian 
Bishops. 

The Governors have felt the advantage which 
must arise from a more ample supply of works 
of this plain and simple character, as also the 
great want of books of elementary instruction 
for the Negroes : but, under the conviction that 
in both respects due provision will soon be made 
by the direction of the West Indian Bishops ; 
and from an unwillingness to incur further 
expenses beyond their resources, they have de- 
cided to abstain at present from all further pub- 
lication. 

In addition to the copies of Marie's Lectures, 
before mentioned, they have sent out supplies of 
Bibles, Testaments, Common Prayer Books, Re- 
ligious Tracts, and books of Instruction to the 
number of 2378, and at the cost to the Society 
of 591. 9s. 3d. 

It is with much satisfaction that the Go- 
vernors conclude the Pteport of their affairs at 
Home, with the notice of a Grant from the So- 
ciety for ■'Promoting Christian Knowledge, of 
two complete Sets of their Books and Tracts 
for the use of the Chaplains at Demerara ; who, 
having moreover been furnished with the Fa- 



H 

mily Bible published by that Society, and with 
the Common Prayer Book with Notes, are thus 
provided with a valuable collection of works 
upon Christian Doctrine and Practice. 

The Governors commence the statement of 
their affairs Abroad with the Island of Antigua. 
The Notitia of the Rev. James Curtin has not 
been yet received ; but in his last letter he states 
that the School in St. Joh?ish&& much increased. 
He had distributed among the Slaves, and to 
some poor Free People of Colour who had been 
Slaves, 171 Spelling Books, 25 select parts of 
the Holy Bible, 30 Common Prayer Books, 40 
Psalters, 45 Explanation of Sunday^ 65 Cate- 
chetical Instructions, and other tracts; having 
within eighteen months received 270 applica- 
tions from Proprietors and Attornies for such 
Grants. The number of Estates over which he 
has obtained permission to extend his Ministry 
is 51 ; but he says that there is ?io Estate where 
his Ministry at this time would be rejected ; that 
in some it is most kindly received. 

The Rev. N. Gilbert, the Proprietor of Gil- 
bert's in the same Island, who, as before stated, 
had in consequence of the removal of Mr. 
Luckock to Montserrat kindly engaged to super- 
intend the Society's concerns with the assistance 
of a Schoolmaster, writes as follows : " Our Con- 
" gregations, as will be the case during the season 



12 

" of Crop, have somewhat diminished. They are 
" however much larger than before Christmas. A 
" decided mark of improvement that has taken 
u place among my own Slaves will be found in 
" the following facts ; that for many months I 
" have been without either Manager or Overseer 
" on the Estate : the whole of the superintend- 
" ance being left to a few of the most steady 
" and exemplary among the Negroes. They 
" seem duly to appreciate the confidence that is 
" thus reposed in them; and perform their daily 
" tasks with an alacrity and integrity that was 
" formerly altogether unknown. My crops both 
" of provision and of sugar have in consequence 
" nearly doubled : the last exceeded that of any 
" other Estate in the Island, and the present one 
" will probably do the same. This system I 
" have been gradually introducing since my re- 
"turn to this country, and every fresh step has 
" been followed by increasing success. I have 
"■ no hesitation whatever in ascribing these prac- 
" tical results (and it is to this standard we must 
" always resort to prove the efficacy of our prin- 
" ciples) to the improved Moral and Religious 
" Condition of the Negroes. Those who were 
" formerly notorious thieves and vagabonds are 
" now industrious and honest : and I could pro- 
" duce several instances, even from among those 
" who had grown old in vice, 6f the most indo- 



13 

" lent becoming diligent and trustworthy. Al- 
M . though working by themselves, without any 
" superintendance whatever, yet their task is re- 
" gularly and faithfully performed. In truth I 
" am as much astonished as I am delighted with 
" their conduct ; and if the Sunday market were 
" abolished, and marriage sanctioned and encou- 
" raged, I see no reason why the Slave popula- 
" tion of Antigua should not become as moral, 
" intelligent, and industrious as the Free People 
" of England." 

The situation of Mr. Gilbert in the Island im- 
poses upon him a variety of occupations which 
necessarily consume a large proportion of his 
time ; and when to this is added the superin- 
tendance of his own Estate, the residue is not 
sufficient for him to enter on the duties of a 
Chaplain with all that degree of energy and 
attention which the character demands. He feels 
therefore that he could not with propriety as- 
sume the title of one ; but he places his exertions 
under the foregoing restrictions at the Society's 
command ; and will feel himself honoured as hav- 
ing them considered under their auspices. He 
informs the Governors that a gentleman in his 
neighbourhood has promised to provide a Cha- 
pel and a School on his Estate, and that pro- 
bably others will do the same* The permission 
of the Proprietors to engage Teachers for their 



14 

Schools he considers will be extremely beneficial * 
and he has engaged Mr. Wm. Dawes, (the Ne- 
phew) to assist him. Mr. Dawes has for some 
years kept a large school in St. Johis, much to 
the satisfaction of his employers, and Mr. Gil- 
bert believes him to be a pious and in every 
sense a respectable young man. 

By the Notitia which he has kindly forwarded 
for the half year ending the 30th of June, 1824, 
it appears that he had baptized within that 
period 3 Adults and 21 Infants : that he had 
200 in attendance in the Schools*, and that the 
Chapel upon his Estate, which contains from 
300 to 400 persons, is regularly full. There is 
service in the Chapel every Sunday morning, 
and occasionally on the Sunday and Thursday 
evenings. 

The Rev. Benjamin Luckock, who was sta- 
tioned upon Mr. Gilberts Estate in Antigua, 
removed early in the last year from that sta- 
tion to St. John's, in consequence of Mrs. 
Jhtickock's severe indisposition. He occupied 
the Parsonage of Mr. Curtin, designing in future 
to act in conjunction with him. In his first 
letter to the Governors after his removal, he 

* Mr. G. remarks that the return of the number in the 
Schools is consolidated, the Scholars being of all ages, from 4 
to 65 years : and, as they are all taught together, he thought it 
better to make no distinction. 



15 

speaks of Mr. Gilbert as being disposed to take 
an active part in the Society's concerns, and 
of the probability of that gentleman deriving 
considerable assistance from some of the Negroes 
themselves. Having acted with Mr. Curtin for 
a few weeks, he was appointed by his Excellency, 
Sir Benjamin D' Urban, to the Rectory of St. 
Anthony in the Island of Montsermt; a station 
which, he says, is one of considerable importance 
to the Society's designs. Many of the Proprie- 
tors there were willing to countenance his exer- 
tions among their Slaves ; and having preached 
upon the subject, he had had the satisfaction 
of receiving personally the approbation of the 
sentiments he had delivered from the Presi- 
dent, Chief Justice, and other respectable In- 
habitants and Planters. One material consi- 
deration of Sir JB. jy Urban in presenting him 
to the Rectory of St. Anthony, Mx.LucJeoch states 
to be the Religious Instruction of the Slaves; 
with a view to which he has established an 
additional service on Sunday afternoon, and 
another on Wednesday evening; and also has 
engaged to read prayers and instruct the Slaves 
on nine Estates*; the properties of Sir John 

* The names of these Estates are Nugent' s ; Dagnam's ; 
Roaches, or Palmetto Point ; the Garden, or FarrelVs ; Gage's ; 
the Spring ; Reed's Hill ; Amersham's ; and I he Water-works, 
or Dely's. 



16 

Talbot, the Hon. Mr. Gage, Sir Thos. tfeave, 
and the Hon. Thos. Hill, Chief Judge of the 
Island. Though some of these Estates are at 
a considerable distance from the town, he makes 
a circuit of them every fortnight ; with the ex- 
ception of one, which he is only able to visit 
once a month, it being nearly ten miles from 
town. 

The total number of Slaves now living on the 
Estates which are visited by Mr. Luckock is 
1104. He has baptized 8 Adults and 86 In- 
fants. Eleven Adults are in preparation for Bap- 
tism, and he has about 260 Negroes in regular 
attendance at the Church ; whom it will accom- 
modate, besides the White and Coloured people. 
There are 8 in attendance on the Holy Commu- 
nion. 

In a letter from the Rev. J. B. Pemberton, 
Chaplain in the Island of St. Kitfs, he informs 
the Society that a coalition of the principal 
Planters with the Clergy of his Island, headed 
by his Excellency the Governor, promises the 
most happy result to ministerial exertion in every 
parish. 

Since the Meeting spoken of in the last Re- 
port*, in which the Established Clergy had been 
associated with the heads of the Colony, there 

* See Report for 1823, page 25. 



17 

have been various Meetings of Sub-Committees 
for the purpose of devising the best plan for the 
Moral and Religious Instruction of the Negro 
Population ; and at a General Committee, held on 
the 9th of January, 1824, a Resolution passed, 
whereby a Society was formed under the name of 
" The Society of the Island of St. Christopher, in 
" aid of the Corporation for the Conversion and 
" Religious Instruction and Education of the Ne- 
" gro Slaves in the [British West India Islands." 
The gentlemen present subscribed different sums, 
as well Donations as Annual Subscriptions. Go- 
vernor Maxwell became an Annual Subscriber of 
Five Guineas ; and Mr. Pemberton doubted not but 
that the liberal example of his Excellency would be 
followed by most of the inhabitants of the Colony. 
Mr. Pemberton preached a Sermon in aid of the 
Society's Funds, on the 25th of the same Month, 
when the Collection amounted to about 16/. He 
had established an Evening Service at Cay on, 
which promises to be well attended. He had 
also commenced Morning Prayers at Basseterre, 
at Six o'clock on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 
the numbers who attend him are very great. 
The Litany, which he reads on these occasions, 
makes a strong impression on the minds of the 
Negroes. 

In a subsequent communication Mr. Pemberton 
expresses his fears, that a plan which was enter- 



18 

tained for affording general Instruction through- 
out the Island, cannot be carried into effect at 
present ; as attempts that were made in some 
Parishes with the Slave Population have failed. 
The Colony is too much distressed to afford the 
requisite expense in each Parish. In his, the 
Parishioners have declared themselves unable to 
contribute any thing towards the formation of a 
Day School for the young Negroes ; so that he 
is left to prosecute his own exertions in the way 
he has been long accustomed to. In his No- 
titia for the six months ending the 24th of June, 
1824, he states that there are 1800 Slaves now 
living upon the Estates under his Ministry. Of 
these he has baptized 8 Adults, and 60 Infants, 
He has in the Sunday School about 40 Children, 
and in the Day School from 16 to 20. There 
are three Churches in which he officiates ; 
Basseterre, St. Peter's, and Palmetto Point. 
He has married two couple, and buried 42 
persons. 

The formation of the Branch Association, 
spoken of by Mr. Pemberton, was officially an- 
nounced to the Society by Wm. Thomson, Esq. 
of St. Kitts; whose zeal had been conspicuous 
throughout the measure ; and who had accepted 
the office of Secretary. The particulars of the 
origin and formation of the above Association, 
which manifest the warmest anxiety for the 



19 

Religious welfare of the unenlightened Negro, 
are given in the Appendix*. 

The Rev. Wm. Hendrickson, who had been 
engaged to co-operate with Mr. Davis in Ne- 
vis, but who has since removed to St. Christo- 
phers, states that there are nine Estates in his 
Parish, and that the Proprietors and Managers 
seem well disposed to facilitate the instructions 
offered to their Negroes. Though he writes 
within a week of his removal, he had obtained 
permission to visit one Estate, and hoped the 
others would follow in succession. There had 
lately been established a Sunday School, which 
was superintended by the Ladies and Gentlemen 
of the Parish. He attended the Sunday pre- 
vious to his writing. There were several Chil- 
dren from the different Estates. A few could 
read, some few knew their letters, and others 
had commenced learning them. He had no 
doubt of the numbers rapidly increasing, and of 
seeing in a little time the School in a flourishing 
and prosperous way. As soon as he should be 
well established and have obtained the things ne- 
cessary, he purposed to have a weekly Evening 
Service, which the Slaves would be enabled to 
attend after the hours of labour. He requested 
to be furnished with some school books, which 

* See Appendix, No. III. 



20 

have been forwarded to him, and he engages in 
a few months to transmit a Notitia. 

Mr. Hendrickson has since forwarded his No- 
titia to the close of the year. His opinion, that 
the Parishioners of St. Thomas are well disposed 
towards the objects of the Society, has been con- 
firmed ; and he finds the Gentlemen on the Es- 
tates generally inclined to aid and facilitate the 
instructions offered to their Negroes. The Sun- 
day-School is likely to be productive of much 
good. There are in it 98 boys, and 103 girls. 
The number fluctuates, but generally there is a 
good attendance. He has since opened a Day- 
School, in which there are several children. His 
Church is well attended, and the Congregation 
increases : he hopes shortly to have it opened 
for the weekly Evening Service. He officiates 
also at Palmetto Point, where there is at present 
no Clergyman, and where several Slaves attend. 
He has baptized there 40 Children and 4 
Adults, besides 37 Infants and 13 Adults, at St. 
Thomas's. 

The statements which have been received from 
Nevis are of the most satisfactory character. 
The Rev. D. G. Davis landed in that Island, 
on his return from England, early in February. 
At the first public Service after his return he was 
welcomed by an overflowing congregation of all 
classes. Mr. Cottle's Chapel was opened for the first 



21 

time on Wednesday, the 5th of May. Mr. Davis 
speaks of it as an exceedingly interesting day. 
Mr. Cottle made it a holiday to all his Slaves. 
They consequently attended, as did many of the 
Ladies and Gentlemen of the Island. There has 
from this time been regular Service in this Chapel 
every alternate Sunday afternoon, and every al- 
ternate Monday evening. After Prayers and a 
Lecture, the younger part of the Slaves on this 
Estate are catechized on both these occasions. 
The Monday Evening Service is particularly well 
attended, and the Slaves are allowed to break off 
their work at an earlier hour on this evening 
to prepare themselves for it. At the time of 
Mr. Davis's writing there were about 70 un- 
baptized ; to whom it was his intention to admi- 
nister that Sacrament, as soon as he could do it 
with propriety. Mr. Huggins had not com- 
pleted his Chapel, but the building was in a for- 
ward state, and it was expected that it would be 
soon finished. The Notitia which accompanies 
this letter, for the half year ending the 30th 
June, 1824, is subscribed both by Mr. Davis and 
Mr. Hendrickson ; they having conceived it most 
advisable to take all the duties of the Island alter- 
nately. They have early Prayers every morning, 
two Public Services on the Sunday, Private In- 
struction twice on that day, as also once on the 

c 



22 

Monday evening, and once on the Friday morn- 
ing in Charles Town: Public Service every alter- 
nate Sunday in Lowland, and the same in Wind- 
ward, besides the Services already spoken of in 
Mr. Cottle's Chapel. They have baptized 31 
of riper years, and 65 Children ; married eight 
couple, and buried seven Adults and eight In- 
fants. There were from 60 to 70 Children in 
the Sunday School, and about 100 in the Day 
School, with about 15 Adults. 

In consequence of the removal of Mr. jflen- 
drkkson to St. Kitts, the line of duty marked 
out by these gentlemen has been in some mea- 
sure broken in upon ; though Mr. Davis pro- 
mises to keep as near to it as possible till another 
labourer can be obtained. This circumstance 
being made known to the Lord Bishop of Bar- 
bados, he has kindly taken upon himself to 
provide a successor to Mr. Hendrickson, and 
informed the Society that the Rev. Mr. Law- 
rence would be placed in charge of the duties 
from which Mr. Hendrickson has been removed. 
The Governors therefore hope by this time that 
the above system of instruction has been fully 
restored. 

On Tuesday, the 15th of July, 1824, a public 
meeting was held at the Court House in pursu- 
ance of the requisition of his Honor, the Presi- 



23 

dent ; when a Branch Association for promoting 
the Conversion and Religious Instruction of the 
Negroes of this Island was formed, the regula- 
tions of which may be found annexed to this 
Report*. 

The President and Vice-President of this Asso- 
ciation are the Hon. Magnus Morton Herbert 
and T. J. Cottle, Esq. who took an active part 
in its promotion. The Rev. D. G. Davis, and 
Rev. W. Hendrickson, of whom honorable men- 
tion was made, have been appointed Treasurer 
and Secretary. 

The operations of the Association in its pre- 
sent infant state have been confined to the esta- 
blishment of Parochial Schools. The Committee 
has voted 20/. currency for an additional Sunday 
Teacher in the parish of St. Paul, Charles Town. 
A Sunday School has been established in St. 
George's, Gingerland, which was going on well, 
and had {Sept. 1824), 75 Children in attendance. 
At that period the Committee were moreover 
looking out for a proper Master for the School 
of St. James Windward. 



* See Appendix, No. IV. It having been unanimously re- 
solved by the Committee of the Association that the speech 
of the Rev. D. G. Davis on this occasion should be printed, as 
likely to promote the objects of the Society, it will be found in 
the Appendix. 

c2 



24 

It is with peculiar satisfaction that the Gover- 
nors have heard that the Services of the Rev. 
D. G. Davis are likely to be continued to them 
in a station where he has been so eminently use- 
ful. It was the intention of Governor Maxwell 
to have preferred him in the Island of St. Chris- 
topher's ; but in consequence of an appeal made 
to Mr. Davis by the Vestry of his Parish, of 
which his Excellency speaks as " being at once 
highly honorable to themselves and the com- 
munity they represent, and equally creditable 
to the character of their excellent Pastor," he 
still retains the charge of St. Paul, Charles- 
Toivn. 

The expectation of the arrival of the Bishop 
had induced the Rev. JR. F. King, the Society's 
Chaplain in Barbados, to continue the simple 
plan of instruction he had adopted, considering 
it not right to make any alteration in a matter 
of such importance until he shall have obtained 
his Lordship's opinion. As far as his experience 
enables him to judge, he continues to think that 
the best mode of instructing the Slaves is by 
visiting the Plantations at stated periods, using 
a short form of prayer with them, and giving them 
a lecture suited to their capacity : and that when 
a Catechist, or Subordinate Teacher can be pro- 
cured, the Chaplain will be much assisted. This 
course he has pursued, and has been fortunate 



25 

in obtaining the assistance of a very respectable 
man of Colour, who appears very zealous and 
sincere in the cause. If there were a fund from 
which such assistants might receive a small 
remuneration, Mr.Ki?ig is of opinion many might 
be procured. On a reference to the Notitia 
it will be found that he has not once performed 
the Marriage Ceremony among the Slaves ; and 
he is afraid it will be long before he will be able 
to give a favorable account on that head. His 
Ministry extends ove^ 12 Estates. He has no re- 
gular Schools for the Instruction of the Negroes; 
but on the Plantations which he visits the Chil- 
dren are taught the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, the 
Commandments, and Church Catechism, either 
by some member of the Proprietor's or Manager's 
Family, or by some servant on the Plantation. 
He has never delivered any Instruction to the 
Negroes in places of Public Worship, but he visits 
two, sometimes three Estates on Monday, Tues- 
day, and Saturday, in each week. Moreover the 
Parochial Clergy have generally opened their 
Churches a second time on Sunday for the ex- 
press accommodation of the Negroes. In the 
half year ending June 30, 1824, he has baptized 
77 Adults, and 88 Infants. The Sacrament has 
never been administered in the Plantations, but 
many Slaves receive it at St. Michael's Church ; 
and Mr. King understands from the Rectors of 



ether Parishes that they have many Slave Com- 
municants. 

The Rev. James Ltigar, and the Rev. Bryan 
Taylor Nurse, landed at Demerara the 27th of 
April, and had an immediate interview with his 
Excellency the Governor, Who evinced a deter- 
mination to give every support to the cause of 
Religion, and to promote as far as possible the 
views of the Society. 

The duty of St. George's Church being at 
that time unprovided for, his Excellency reconv 
mended that Mr. Lugur should take charge of it 
for the present. The performance of this duty 
had of course fully occupied his time, and also 
confined him in a great measure in the vicinity 
of George Toivn. As soon, however, as the state 
of the weather would permit, it being at the time 
of his writing the rainy seas-on, he intended 
visiting several places which had been pointed 
out to him as desirable for Chaplains to be placed 
in. 

Mr. Nurse is stationed on the East Coast, 
where he commenced duty in May with the Ne- 
groes of six or eight Estates. On the 15th of 
November he informed the Society that he had 
met with no impediments in his undertaking, 
nor did he -expect any. On the contrary, hefrad 
had offers of encouragement and assistance. In 
no instance had any Proprietor objected to the 



27 

Baptism of his Slaves } and his Ministry had, 
since his first communication, extended to 18 
Estates. It was his intention to nominate a 
Negro on each Estate to be the Catechist for it, 
by whom he thought much might be done every 
day ; while he and the Assistant whom he had 
engaged for this purpose, would be fully em- 
ployed on the Sunday. His congregation con- 
sisted of about 400 or 450 ; but out of these 
there were not more than 300 who were in re- 
gular attendance. He instructed the Negroes 
by commenting on the lessons, by explaining the 
Liturgy, and by catechizing. As his time had 
been so short he had been unable to assure himself 
of the impression he had been the humble instru- 
ment of making, but he believed that there were 
some pious and well-disposed persons in his 
Congregation. 

During the half year ending the 16th of No- 
vember, he h&d baptized 41 Adults, and 107 
Infants ; and has in preparation for baptism 17 ; 
but he trusts the Society will be better able to 
judge of the progress of the result and real suc- 
cess of his Mission by his next report. 

Mr. Nurse again addressed the Society on the 
1st of January last, when he was anxiously look- 
ing for the arrival of Mr. Isaacson, being in 
great need of a colleague. Many of his Con* 
gregatzon come from Estates S or 10 miles dis- 



28 

tant, and being necessarily obliged to return at 
an early part of the day, he thinks it expedient 
to give them close and undivided attention. 
Thus having two classes of attendants, he is fully 
engaged throughout the Sunday. Of the subor- 
dinate Teachers, spoken of in his former letter, 
he had been able to obtain but five. The 
Governor, who had attended him on two Sun- 
days, had expressed himself much pleased with 
the attention of his Congregation, and observed 
that the present establishment on the East Coast 
had been attended with benefit. Mr. Nurse had 
had no unfavourable accounts of the behaviour 
of his particular flock, as to riotous and disor- 
derly conduct usual at the holidays. His re- 
gular attendants spent their Christmas-day in 
reading and hearing the Scriptures, and teach- 
ing and hearing the Catechism. The Sunday 
after Christmas he had 200 more than his Chapel 
could contain. He had been collecting the 
names of those Slaves who attend his Chapel 
regularly, and who are at the same time 
good Slaves ; and found that he had many on 
his list of this description. The Negroes, he 
says, are very desirous of religious instruction ; 
and he has known them leave their own pursuits 
of an ordinary kind, for the purpose of attending 
his Chapel, and receiving instruction from him. 
Two or three Negroes follow him throughout 



29 

the Service with their Prayer Books, and their 
general behaviour is becoming. Since his for- 
mer communication of the 16th of November, 
he had baptized 43 Adults and 93 Infants ; which 
return confirms his statement, that his baptisms 
increase every Sunday : he having baptized more 
Adults in the last seven weeks, than in the pre- 
ceding six months. 

The Rev. John Stainsby, the Society's Chaplain 
at Bath, St. Thomas the East, Jamaica, expresses 
his anxiety for the arrival of the Bishop. " Should 
his Lordship," says he, " favour us with a visit 
in this part of his Diocese, we can afford him a 
pleasant sight of hundreds uniting in the Worship 
of God, saying ' Amen' at our giving of thanks, 
who were sometimes foolish, disobedient, de- 
ceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living 
in malice and envy, hateful and hating each 
other." 

In the Spring of the last year, a Catechist 
having been sent out to assist this gentleman 
and the Rev. Mr. Trew (to whose exertions the 
Society is much indebted,) a system was ar- 
ranged upon an extensive plan, for the In- 
struction of the Negroes in the Parish of St. 
Thomas, of which Mr. Trew is Rector. On 
the Sabbath Day, in the hours which were not 
devoted to Public Service, this Catechist su- 
perintended eight classes or about 250 Adult 



30 

Catechumens, and from 60 to 100 Children, over 
whom were placed subordinate Teachers of 
Colour ; and on the week days he visited five 
Estates, on which he was to catechize the younger 
Negroes. This system however was persevered 
in hut for a short time, as the Catechist very soon 
after his arrival in the Island returned again to 
England: nor have the Society been yet able to 
supply his place. Ill health has also removed 
Mr. Trew from the Island ; though it is hopeol 
but far a season. 

It is however not merely satisfactory, but 
highly creditable to Mr. Stainsby to state, that 
the interests of Religion, however they may 
have suffered from the above circumstances, are 
watched over and promoted by him with a more 
than ordinary care. The five Estates, which 
were before spoken of, he still visits with a view 
to the instruction of the Children; and he has 
800 Adults who attend him for the same pur- 
pose. His baptisms for six months, are 19 of 
riper years, and 217 Infants. He has married 
within this time 78 couples, and the number of 
his Communicants at Bath and Manchioneal Bay 
amounts to 200 *. It is much to be desired that 

* Mr. Trew has transmitted to the Society an extract from his 
Parish Register, hy which it appears, that from the 14th of 
December, 1817, to the 21st of March, 1824, he has married 
3488 Negro Slaves, and baptized £0v»6. 

13 



31 

so zealous a labourer as Mr. Stainsby should 
have every possible support; and the Governors 
cannot but express their earnest wish that 
they may speedily have it in their power to 
supply the vacancy that has occurred in this 

station.® 

The Rev. W. J. Utten reached Rio Bueno, 
in the Island of Jamaica, early in the month of 
May ; bnt expecting that he should speedily 
have to remove from thence, and being also in a 
very debilitated state, he did not commence a 
system of instruction with the Negroes, which 
he had reason to think could be continued but 
a few days, upon the Estate on which he re* 
sided. 

In the month of July his health being per- 
fectly re-established, he was appointed by his 
Grace the Governor, to the Curacy of Clarendon. 
Some Proprietors in his Parish have expressed 
a desire that he should instruct their Negroes, 
and he hoped shortly to have the pleasure of in- 
forming the Society, that he had received per- 
mission to visit several Estates. In the mean 
time, as soon- as the rain should cease, he pur- 
posed opening his Chapel on Sunday afternoon, 
and having a Service expressly for the Negroes. 
He likewise intended to devote what time he 
could spare to the Instruction of the Adult free 
people of Colour and their Children. Though 



32 

this does not fall immediately within the line 
marked out by the Society, yet he apprehends 
its views will eventually be very materially pro- 
moted by the moral and religious improvement 
of these people ; who, when impressed with 
Christian feelings, and qualified by proper in- 
struction, may be advantageously employed as 
Catechists and School Masters. From their ha- 
bits, better acquainted with the peculiarities of 
the Negro character, and those modes of speech 
which the Negro understands, they can with far 
more efficiency and expedition than a white per- 
son, impress upon his mind the general principles 
of Christianity which may serve for the founda- 
tion upon which the Clergyman will build. 

The Rev. Thomas Stewart, on his arrival at 
St. Elizabeth's in the spring of the year, addressed 
a circular to the different Proprietors or their 
Representatives, upon the important subject of 
the religious interests of the Slaves ; from some 
of whom he received an assurance of their anxi- 
ety that they should have the benefit of his Mi- 
nistry. He says, the Proprietors appear most 
desirous of the moral and religious improvement 
of their Slaves ; but unfortunately at this moment 
they are so harassed and distressed by the un- 
happy acts of rebellion in this part of the coun- 
try, that they are unable to adopt the measures 
they may wish until tranquillity be restored. 
10 



33 

There are three public places of Worship*, ex- 
clusive of the Parish Church, at which he regu- 
larly attends every alternate Sunday, though their 
distance from his residence exceeds 30 miles. Yet 
he thinks himself amply rewarded by the large 
congregations that attend. Having been ear- 
nestly requested by two gentlemen of large pos- 
sessions for the use of Harte's Lectures, that 
they might read them to their Slaves, he had 
complied with their request; and having since 
had a similar application from another quarter, 
he wishes to have a few more copies at his com- 
mand. " From this circumstance," says he, " you 
will perceive that the Proprietors are not back- 
ward in forwarding this great and good cause ; 
and I can from my own observation assure you, 
that there are many in this parish who not only 
collect their Negroes together on the mornings 
of each Sunday to read to them the Prayers of 
our Liturgy ; but also prepare and deliver short 
discourses explanatory of those Prayers." 

In his Notitia, ending the 30th of June, he 
states that he has baptized 130 Adults and 67 
Infants, and that he has in preparation for bap- 

* In addition to these, Mr. Forbes, who has assured Mr. 
Stewart that it will give him heartfelt satisfaction to aid his 
pious and laudable exertions in the moral and religious im- 
provement of the Negroes on his Estate in the Santa Cruz 
Mountains, has made a proposal to provide a place of Worship 
in some central place in his district. 



tfem 433. The four places of Worship in which 
he officiates are calculated to hold 1300 persons, 
while the number of attendants is about 2000 : 
many, who cannot gain seats, remaining during 
the time of Service under the Piazzas on the 
outside. 

The Rev. Hugh Beams landed at Montego 
Bay the 29th of February, 1824, and proceeded 
from thence to Montpelier, the Estate of C. M. 
Ellis, Esq. in the parish of St. James. Soon 
after his arrival the Barrack was, by the assist- 
ance of the neighbouring Proprietors, fitted up 
for the performance of Public Worship, and was 
opened for that purpose on the 9th of May; 
Mr. Martin Williams, the Proprietor of Seven 
Rivers Estate, and a Member of the House of 
Assembly officiating as Clerk. The Service was 
attended by about 80 White and Coloured peo- 
ple, and about 200 Negroes, who conducted 
themselves with the greatest propriety ; many of 
them repeating the Lord's Prayer. Mr. Beams 
having recommended a constant attendance at 
Church, Mr. Ettis's Negroes took advantage of 
the circumstance, and, after Service, made appli- 
cation to Mr. Millar, the manager of the Mont- 
pelier Estate, to be enabled to do so. From this 
gentleman Mr. Beams has received every facility 
and encouragement, and the greatest attention 
in this and all other respects ; and he has every 



35 

reason to believe that his exertions will be se- 
conded by all the neighbouring White Inhabi- 
tants. 

Mr. Beams states it to have been his inten- 
tion to collect the Children after Church as 
often as possible to catechise them, according 
to his instructions ; but the course of his labours 
was soon stopped by the alarm into which the 
Island was thrown by the Rebellion of the Ne- 
groes on Argyle and other Estates, about four 
miles from him. When his plans were thus in- 
terrupted, the Negroes were just beginning to 
retain different portions of Scripture History, 
with which he had mingled moral instruction, 
and as all is now quiet he hopes soon to resume 
his labours. 

Mr. Williams of Seven Rivers, Mr. Lawrence 
of Hazehjmph, Mr. Grignon of Ducketts Spring, 
and Mr. Brissett of Content, have all requested 
him to preach to their Negroes. He intended 
to preach to the Montpelier Negroes on the Sun- 
day, and to go to the above Estates on the week 
days. Mr. Williams, he states, intends to build 
a Chapel on his Estate for his own Negroes, and 
he presumes, something similar will be done on 
the others. 

In a letter which accompanies his Notitia, he 
says, " the Negroes on all the Estates around him 
are willing to receive instruction, and have each 



36 

had directions to attend his Ministry." It is his 
intention to preach at Content, and again at 
Ducketfs Spring in the course of every week ; 
to open the Church once in the week besides 
Sunday ; and also to visit the Hospitals of each 
of the Estates daily: as he conceives that by 
doing so much instruction may be given to the 
inmates. On Sunday morning he has an assem- 
bly of all the Children, for the purpose of in- 
structing them in the Creed, Lord's Prayer, and 
Ten Commandments. At present only the Motit- 
pelier and Shettlewood Children attend, but he 
proposes to extend his instruction to the Children 
of Seven Rivers and Ha%elymph in the course 
of the week; as the Proprietors of both Estates 
are extremely anxious that he should do so. 
He was engaged in baptizing Infants, but was un- 
willing to baptize the older Children till they can 
repeat several things necessary to be known by 
them. With respect to the choice of Godfathers 
and Godmothers, Mr. Beams is extremely parti- 
cular, and allows only those who bear excellent 
characters to stand as such. This plan, he ob- 
serves, renders the numbers small, but it gives an 
importance to the ceremony of which the Ne- 
groes had before no conception. 

In the last communication which had been re- 
ceived from Mr. Beams, he says, that it is his 
duty to inform the Society, that he continues to 



37 

receive from every person of importance and con- 
sideration the most full and unreserved kindness 
and patronage. On Sunday the 17th of October, 
he selected, from about 140 Children, 50 who. 
were able to repeat perfectly the Lord's Prayer, 
to whom it was his intention to - give trifling 
rewards. He had lately received an invitation 
from Mr. Malcolm, the Proprietor of Argyle 
Estate, to preach to his Negroes. His time 
being fully occupied on the Sunday, he is able 
to attend them only on a week day ; to which 
Mr. Malcolm has no objection whatever. He 
has also arranged with Mr. Galloway to meet 
his Negroes in the middle of the week. His 
congregations on a Sunday afternoon at Duchetfs 
Spring, and also at Content, are increasing in 
numbers. 

Within the four first months after his arrival, 
ending the 30th of June, Mr. Beams had bap- 
tized 14 Infants, and had at that time 90 Adults 
under a course of catechetical instruction. His 
Notitia to the end of the year has not yet been 
received. 

Such are the details of the Society's labours 
during the last year; which it is hoped will be 
read with an interest proportioned to the effect 
which they may eventually produce on the hap- 
piness of the unenlightened Negro. However 
men may differ, (and it should appear they needs 

D 



38 

must) as to the mode of ameliorating his tem- 
poral condition ; yet, upon the obligations we are 
under to administer to him unsparingly the bless- 
ings of instruction in Morality and true Religion; 
that he may walk righteously, soberly, and godly 
in this present world; be armed with patience, 
contentment, and resignation; and be qualified for 
an admission to a glorious Immortality through 
Jesus Christ ; it is impossible that there should 
exist a diversity of sentiment among u&. 

As such, and such only, are the objects of the 
Incorporated Society, its claims upon Christian 
Charity can be denied by none. Only let them 
be suffered to have an influence, unprejudiced 
by other considerations, and they cannot fail to 
secure to it that well-stored treasury, which may 
enable it, by the Divine Blessing, to dispense a 
general instead of a partial benefit; and to extend 
its pious labours to the remotest corner of those 
Colonies, in which hitherto it has been only known 
as in a state of Infancy and Imperfection. 



APPENDIX, No. I. 



GO 

W 
> 

W CM 



« 
o 

I— H 

o 

o 

go 



00 



>« 



^ 



o 
Pn 
o 
m 
% 

m 

ft 

§1 
§ I 

oo ^ 
W I 

£> to 

|ZJ -Is 

O 



«S 



*& 



>2 



*e 


o 


o 


OS 


o 


OS 


CO 


o 


o 


r-H 


© 


1— 1 


M 


CO 

CO 
CO 


o 

CO 
CM 


OS 

o 
to 


o 

OS 


CO 

1 — 1 



go 
W 
O 

w 

XI 



w 

Q 

w 
Pn 



g 
'3 

O 



d 

as 
as 

a) 
> 
as 

go 



s- o 

■+J o 
as as 

II 



« s s 

as 



£ : 

as • 

fe >^ 

as S 

f» TO 

+3 Pi 

© 2 

+J o 

as a 
&G __ 

«$ e 

CD *^ 



as cc 

> OS 

< "O 

.S * 

P* - 



P3 



OS 

r3 



GO 

H 

& * 






as 

OS 0> 



02 CO 

P w 
6 



• o 

.8 ^ 

"-^ nil 



o o 



>H 



co o 5 

P o o 

£ CO r£ 



<W 



"]8 


oo 


o 


O r-i 


(OS 


=0 


OS 


o 


O CM 


M 


^ 


cm 

CM 

oo 


CO 

I-H 


800 
1125 


4164 



« 



S3 

3 
O 

S 



n3 

3 



G 
O 

Q 

0) 

H 



d2 



APPENDIX, No. II. 



STATEMENT OF THE OBJECTS OF BRANCH ASSOCIA- 
TIONS IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIES*. 

The Governors of the Incorporated Society for 
the Conversion and Religious Instruction and 
Education of the Negro Slaves in the British 
West India islands, having suggested in the Post- 
cript to the Report of their proceedings from July to 
December 1823, that the views of the Society would be 
most effectually promoted by the formation of Associa- 
tions in the Colonies in union with the Incorporated 
Society in London, beg to offer a more explicit State- 
ment of the object of such Associations, and to point 
out the mode by which they consider that an union 
with their Body may be made the most effective. 

THE OBJECTS OF SUCH ASSOCIATIONS ARE 

First, — to assist the Society in its design of impart- 
ing Religious Instruction to the Negroes in 
the West Indies, by means of Clergymen of 
the Church of England, and other persons 
acting under their immediate direction, and 
subject to the superintendance and controul 
of the Ecclesiastical Authorities. 

* N.B. It must be understood that the Incorporated Society, 
in the transmission of this Paper, has no wish to prescribe, but 
merely to suggest a course of proceeding in the establishing of 
Branch Associations, with a view to Conformity and Con- 
venience. 



41 

Secondly, — to solicit, receive, and, after defraying the 
necessary expences of the Association, transr. 
mit to the Board in London such sums as in- 
dividuals might be disposed to contribute 
immediately to this Society, in addition to 
those which they may give to the local funds 
of the Association. 

Thirdly, — to exert themselves to procure such assist- 
ance and accommodations for the Persons 
sent out by the Society as may promote their 
comfort and respectability, and thereby in- 
crease their means of usefulness. 

Fourthly, — to take charge of such Books, Tracts, and 
Papers as the Society may provide for the 
use of its Chaplains and others in their Co- 
lony ; to transmit an Annual Account of the 
same ; and to distribute the Reports of the 
Society's Proceedings to the several Sub- 
scribers to their respective Associations. 
Lastly, — to correspond from time to time with the 
Board of the Incorporated Society in Lon- 
don, and to transmit to it, through the Bishop, 
an Annual Report of their Proceedings. 



The Incorporated Society will receive into union 
Branch Associations formed, under the sanction of the 
Bishop, with a' view to the above objects : — the Rules of 
such Associations being subject to the approval of the 
Board in London. 

The Funds remitted by any such Associations will be 
applied, in the first place, to the supply of such Books 



42 

(approved by the Society) as may be required by the 
Branch Association, and the surplus will be applied to 
the General Purposes of the Incorporated Society in 
providing Clergymen and Religious Instructors of the 
Negroes. — Such Clergymen and Religious Instructors 
to be tinder the direction and at the disposal of the 
Bishop ; as much attention being paid as circumstances 
will admit to any recommendation or suggestion which 
may be made by the Association. 

The Incorporated Society will .send out for distribu- 
tion, gratis, to the Members of such Association, copies 
of the Account of the Society, and of such Reports, as 
it may make from time to time of the Success of its 
Labours ; of the State of its Funds ; and the Applica- 
tion of its Revenues : to which Report a list of the 
Subscribers to the Incorporated Society and the Asso- 
ciation will be annexed. 



Sketch or Draft of a course of Proceeding in the 
Establishing of Branch Associations, suggested 
with a view to conformity and convenience. 



At a Meeting of the Clergy, Proprietors, and other 
Residents of , in the Island of 

> convened for the purpose of taking 
into consideration the expediency of establishing a 
Branch Association, for promoting the Conversion and 
Religious Instruction of the Negroes, in 

, in union with the Incorporated Society in 
11 



43 

London, held on the clay of 

182 . 

in the Chair. 

The Statement of the Objects of such Associations, 
as made by the Governors of the Incorporated Society 
in London, having been read : — 

It was resolved, That a Association 

for this , in conformity to those ob- 

jects, be now established. 

That be 

requested to accept the office of President. 

That be 

requested to accept the office of Vice-President. 

That be 

requested to accept the office of Treasurer. 

That be 

appointed Secretary. 

That this Association be under the following Regu- 
lations:— 

First, — that every Subscriber of £1 annually, and 
also every Donor of £5 at any one time be a 
Member of this Association, and entitled to 
attend its General Meetings. 
Secondly, — that a General Meeting of the Society be 
held annually, on the first in the 

Month of at 

and also upon such other days and times as 
the Majority of the Committee, with the con- 
currence of the President, shall think fit to 
appoint. 
Thirdly,- — that be 

appointed a Standing Committee for trans- 



.44 

acting the business of the Association, and 
for the purpose of making any communica- 
tion or suggestion to the Incorporated So- 
ciety in London. 

Fourthly,— that the Reverend 

Chaplain of the Incorporated Society, now 
resident at 

be member of this Committee so long as 
shall continue on that station. 

Fifthly, — that the said Committee do meet on the 

of every month, to proceed to 
business as soon as Mem- 

bers shall be assembled. 

Sixthly, — that the Committee do make a Report of their 
proceedings to the Annual General Meeting 
of the Subscribers, 
on 

Seventhly, — that any vacancies which may occur in the 
said Committee be filled up by 

Eighthly, — that the Accounts of the Treasurer and Se- 
cretary be open to the inspection of all the 
Members of the Committee, and be audited 
annually by a Sub-Committee of the same, 
previously to their being presented to the 
General Meeting. 

Ninthly, — that the Treasurer for the time being do pre- 
sent a statement of his Cash by way of Dr. 
and Cr. to the Committee every quarter, in 
order that any surplus in his hands, above the 
sum necessary to meet the wants of the Asso- 
ciation, may be transmitted to the Treasurer 
of the Incorporated Society, together with 



45 

such other sums as may have been contributed 
towards the objects of the Society. 

Tenthly, — that the Books, Tracts, and Papers which 
may be in store for the use of the Members 
of this Association be placed in such depo- 
sitary as the Committee may appoint, and 
entrusted to the care of 

Eleventhly, — that an account of the state of such depo- 
sitary be regularly kept, and laid before the 
Committee at their Monthly Meetings. 

Twelfthly, — that the Report of the proceedings of the 
Association, together with the list of the 
Officers and Members be transmitted an- 
nually*, to the Incorporated Society in Lon- 
don. 



* It is desirable that the Report should reach England early in the month of 
January in each year, in order that the Governors of the Incorporated Society 
may be in possession of the information it contains, previously to the publication 
of the General Report. 



APPENDIX, No. III. 



THE SOCIETY OF THE ISLAND OF ST. CHRISTOPHER 
IN AID OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE CONVERSION AND 
RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION AND EDUCATION OF THE 
NEGRO SLAVES IN THE BRITISH WEST INDIA 
ISLANDS. 

Oh Monday, the 27th of October, 1823, pursuant to 
the invitation of the Agricultural Association, a 
Meeting was held at the Court Hall, which was re- 
spectably attended. — His Excellency the Captain 
General presided, and addressed the Meeting as 
follows : — 

" Desirous as I am upon all occasions to contribute 
my best services to any measure which shall have for 
its object the welfare of this community, with which I 
am connected by so many interesting considerations, I 
freely declare to you, gentlemen, that I have never stood 
forward upon any public emergency with a deeper 
anxiety than I experience upon this, in the full accom- 
plishment of the great object of our Meeting. It is 
simply my duty to impart to you what that object is, 
and it is nothing less than by the united voice and in- 
fluence of this respectable community to devise the 
means of providing Religious Instruction for its Slave 
Population. A measure of such beneficial influence re- 
quires no commendation from me ; it reaches at once 
the heart of every reflecting mind ; it speaks in its 
own strength and beauty more eloquently than it can 



47 

be described by any language of mine ; and therefore I 
confide it at once to those good feelings which have 
suggested, and which I am persuaded will mature such 
a rational system for the attainment of this great good, 
as will not only proclaim the merit of its supporters, 
but will insure them a full participation in the benefits 
which it is their endeavour to secure for others. I am 
confident that the observations which may be offered 
upon this occasion will be received with the greatest 
attention and interest ; and I feel that I should impede 
the duty which I have to perform if I detained you 
longer from entering into the business of the day." 

After considerable discussion, the following Resolu- 
tions were passed. 

Resolved, That this Meeting Witnesses, with the deepest 
emotion of gratitude to Him whose blessing can alone perfect 
the labours of his Ministers, the progress which the Christian 
Religion has made among the Slave Population of this Island. 

Secondly, That this Meeting sincerely deplores that a great 
proportion of that Population is still in the darkness of heathen 
ignorance and error. 

Thirdly, That it is the duty of all persons interested in the 
welfare of that class of our population, to use every legitimate 
endeavour for the purpose of admitting every individual who 
may be under their influence and protection into the great 
Christian Family. 

Fourthly, That it is a public duty that effectual measures for 
promoting the Religious Instruction of the Slaves be adopted. 

Fifthly, That for this object a Committee consisting of the 
Members of his Majesty's Council, the Speaker of the House 
of Assembly, the Judges of the Court of King's Bench and 
Common Pleas, the Justices of the Peace for the Island, and 
the Established Clergy thereof, be appointed. 



Sixthly, That from the above a Sub-Committee be selected 
by the General Committee, and to whom shall be confided the 
details of suggesting and organizing the measures for accom- 
plishing the object of this Meeting, and of submitting the same 
to the consideration of the General Committee. 

Seventhly, That when such measures shall have been matured 
and adopted by the General Committee, a General Meeting of 
the Inhabitants shall be called in order to deliberate there- 
upon. 

Advertisements were consequently inserted for a 
Meeting to appoint a Sub-Committee, which took place 
on the 1st of November, and on the 18th of December 
the Sub-Committee met, and applied to Mr. Thomson 
to act as Secretary, to which he assented. 

The Sub-Committee met again on Wednesday, the 
7th day of January, 1824. 

The Clergymen present stated their having com- 
menced the Instruction of the Negroes, and hoped at the 
Meeting in February, to report a favourable progress. 



At a Meeting of the General Committee, held by ad- 
vertisement from the Chairman, on Friday, the 9th 
day of January, 1824. 

The Chairman informed the Meeting that he had 
called them together for the purpose of hearing the 
Resolutions of the Sub-Committee, which were read, 
as follows. 

Resolved, That in future Five Members shall be deemed a 
sufficient number for transacting business. 

Resolved, That the first and most material point for effecting 
any change in the Moral and Religious Instruction of the 



49 

Slaves, is the abolition of the Sunday Markets ; and the dis- 
pensing, in every possible way, with all manner of work on 
that day. 

Secondly, That it is the opinion of this Committee that Pa- 
rochial Sunday Schools should be established as speedily as 
possible. 

Thirdly, That, as in the establishment of such Sunday 
Schools expense must naturally be incurred for Teachers and 
Catechists, this Committee hope that such expenses will be 
cheerfully met by the respective Vestries. 

Fourthly, That it is essential this Committee should be fur- 
nished with Lists from the several Estates detailing 
First, — the number of their Slaves ; 
Secondly, — the numbers that attend the Moravian and 

Methodist Societies ; — and 
Thirdly, — the numbers now attending the Established 
Church, and any that have no Religious persuasion : 
as it is not the wish or intention of this Committee to interfere 
with Slaves already connected with any legal Religious Esta- 
blishment. 

Fifthly, The Committee, anxious to promote, as much and 
as speedily as may rest with them, the important objects of 
their Meeting, are happy in recording the determination ex- 
pressed by all the Clergymen present to commence immediately 
their labours in their respective Parishes. 

Sixthly, That the Secretary be requested to use his best en- 
deavours to obtain, as early as possible, the Lists mentioned in 
the Fourth Resolution. 

Seventhly, That this Committee do meet in future on the 
first Wednesday of each Month, at Eleven o'clock. 

Eighthly, That a Copy of these Resolutions be forwarded 
to his Excellency the Governor, with a request that his Excel- 
lency, as Chairman, would be pleased to lay the same before 
the General Committee. 



50 

Whereupon it was Resolved, 

First, That the Resolutions of the Sub-Committee be adopted. 

Secondly, That it be proposed to the next General Meeting 
that those who are willing to associate themselves for the great 
purposes expressed in the Resolutions adopted by the first 
General Meeting, be designated " The Society of the Island of 
*' St. Christopher in aid of the Society for the Conversion and 
" Religious Instruction and Education of the Negro Slaves in 
" the British West India Islands." 

Thirdly, That an earnest appeal be made through the Ves- 
tries of the respective Parishes to every person directing Plan- 
tations to abolish the practice, wherever it may still obtain, of 
throwing grass or stock meat on the Lord's Day, and to dis- 
pense, in every possible way with all work * upon that day. 

Fourthly, That it is expedient, as a step towards effecting 
the ultimate suppression of the Sunday Market, that the Mar- 
ket-Place be cleared by the Supervisors and Constables at the 
hour of Eleven in the Forenoon of that day : and that his Ex- 
cellency the Governor be requested to give the necessary or- 
ders for carrying this measure into effect. 

Fifthly, That application be made to the Vestries of the se- 
veral Parishes to provide for such Expenses as the Establish- 
ment of Sunday Schools will require. 

Sixthly, That a Subscription be opened immediately in aid 
of the Fund necessary to give effect to the efforts of this So- 
ciety, and that the Rev. John B. Pemherton be requested to 
preach a Sermon in aid of such Fund. 

* It may be necessary to remark upon the meaning and intention of " all 
work" alluded to in this Resolution, that it cannot be for a moment supposed 
to refer to " field work," for no such thing could take place here; and even the 
labour expressed of " throwing grass, &c." is at this period practised upon 
very few Estates. The real object is therefore to have this work abolished and 
every other, even extending to domestic matters, that can be possibly dispensed 
with ; so that every Negro may have it in his power to attend the Service of 
the Church of which he may be a member. 



51 

Seventhly, That out of the Fund so raised the Expenses in- 
curred by this Society be defrayed ; and the residue, if any, be 
remitted to the Parent Society at home ; and that the Secretary 
do communicate with the Secretary of the Society in England, 
and for Instructions as to the future appropriation of such 
Fund. 

Eighthly, That as soon as may be convenient after the 
Preaching of the Sermon, his Excellency the Chairman be re- 
quested to convene a General Meeting of all concerned in, 
and disposed to promote the welfare of the Slave Population. 

Ninthly, That the Hon. Charles Woodley, be the Trea- 
surer. 

(Signed) WM. THOMSON, 

Secretary. 

N. B. The Subscription raised at this Meeting 
amounted in 

- Donations to Twelve Guineas. 

Annual to » • Eighteen Guineas. 



APPENDIX, No. IV. 



NEVIS BRANCH ASSOCIATION 

FOR PROMOTING THE CONVERSION AND RELIGIOUS 
INSTRUCTION OF NEGROES. 



At a Public Meeting, held on Thursday the 15th of 
July, 1824, at the Cowt-House, Charles-Town, in 
pursuance of a Requisition of His Honour the Pre- 
sident. 

THE HON. MAGNUS MORTON HERBERT, 

IN THE CHAIR : 

The following Resolutions were adopted. 

Resolved, 

First, That a Branch Association for promoting the Con- 
version and Religious Instruction of the Negroes in this Island, 
in union with the Incorporated Society in London, be now 
formed. 

Secondly, That a book be opened by the Treasurer, for the 
setting down the amount of Annual Subscriptions ; and that a 
Collection be made at the close of this Meeting, and at every 
Annual Meeting hereafter ; and that all description of persons, 
being Slaves or otherwise, be invited to contribute their mite 
towards the fulfilment of the objects of this Association. 

Thirdly, That the Honourable Magnus Morton Herbert, 
Speaker of the House of Assembly, be requested to accept the 
office of President — That T. J. Cottle, Esq. be requested to 
accept the office of Vice-President — That the Rev. D. G. 



Davis be requested to . accept the office of Treasurer — That 
the Rev. W. Hendrickson be requested to accept the office of 
Secretary. 

Fourthly, That this Association be under the following Re- 
gulations : — 

1 — That every Subscriber of 11. currency, annually, be a 
Member of this Association, and entitled to attend its 
General Meetings. K 

1 That a General Meeting of the Society be held annually, on 

the Second Thursday in July, in every Year ; and also 
upon such other days and times as the majority of the 
Committee, with the concurrence of the President, shall 
think fit to appoint. 

3 — That the President, Vice-President, Treasurer, Secre- 
tary, the Clergy, and the Hon. F. Nicholson, George 
Webbe, D. Wane, L. Gordon, Geo. Bucke, and Joseph 
Brazier, Esqrs. be appointed a Standing Committee, for 
transacting the business of the Association ; and for the 
purpose of making communications or suggestions to the 
Incorporated Society in London, being approved by the 
General Meeting. 

4 — That the said Committee do meet on the first Thursday in 
August, November, February, and May ; and at such other 
times as the President may appoint, to proceed to business 
as soon as five Members shall be assembled. 

5 — That the Committee do make a Report of their Proceedings 
to the Annual General Meeting of the Subscribers. 

6 — That any Vacancies which may occur in the said Committee 
be filled up at a General Meeting. 

7 — That the Accounts of the Treasurer and Secretary be open 
to the inspection of all the Members of the Committee, 
and be audited, annually, by a Sub-Committee of the 
same, previously to their being presented to the General 
Meeting. 

E 



54 

8 — That the Treasurer for the time being do present a state- 
ment of his Cash, by way of Dr. and Cr. to the Com- 
mittee, every Quarter, in order that any Surplus in his 
hands, above the Sum necessary to meet the wants of the 
Association, may be applied in such manner as the Gene- 
ral Meeting may direct. 

9 — That the Books, Tracts, and Papers, which may be in store 
for the use of the Members of this Association, be placed 
in such Depositary as the Committee may appoint, and 
entrusted to the care of the Secretary. 

10— That an account of the state of such Depositary be regu- 
larly kept, and laid before the Committee at their Quar- 
terly Meetings. 

11 — That the Report of the Proceedings of the Association, to- 
gether with the List of the Officers and Members, be 
transmitted annually to the Incorporated Society in Lon- 
don. 

Resolved, 

Fifthly, That the thanks of this Meeting be given to His 
Honor the Speaker of the House of Assembly, for his able 
conduct in the Chair : to T. J. Cottle, Esq. for accepting the 
office of Vice-President : to the Rev. D. G. Davis, for accept- 
ing the office of Treasurer : to the Rev. W. Hendrickson, for 
accepting the office of Secretary. 

Sixthly, That the proceedings of this day be published in 
The Saint Christopher Advertiser. 

After the foregoing Resolutions mere carried, and the business of 
the day mas drawing to a close, the two following were proposed, 
and unanimously agreed to. 

George Webbe, jun. Esq. moved— 
That a Hundred Copies of the Resolutions which have been 
this day adopted, be printed, and distributed among the 
Members by the Secretary. 



55 

Lockhart Gordon, sen. Esq. moved — 
The Thanks of this Meeting to the Rev. Daniel Gateward 
Davis, and the Rev. Wm. Hendrickson, for the zealous 
attention they have paid to the Schools established and 
superintended by those Reverend Chaplains in Charles- 
Town. 



The following Gentlemen moved and seconded the several 
Resolutions, in the succession in which their names stand ar- 
ranged, viz. The Rev. D. G. Davis, and the Rev. Joseph H. 
Pemberton; Peter T. Huggins, and Geo. Webbe, Esqrs. 
the Hon. F. Nicholson, and the Rev. Samuel Lyons ; John 
Peterson, and John Burke, Esqrs. Lockhart Gordon, jun. 
and Daniel Wane, Esqrs. George Bucke, Esq. and the Rev. 
Wm. Hendrickson. 

In the Addresses made by the several Gentlemen to 
the Meeting, in support of the Resolutions, the objects 
of the Parent Institution, and of Branch Associations in 
union with it, were pointed out ; and the great advan- 
tages and utility of them appeared to be the prevailing 
impression. 

The following is the substance of the Speech which 
was delivered on the occasion by the Rev. Daniel 
Gateward Davis, M.A. Rector of St. Paul's, Charles- 
Town, Nevis, and one of the Chaplains to the Incorpo- 
rated Society ; and which is now published in com- 
pliance with a Resolution of the Committee of the 
Nevis Branch Association at its first Meeting on the 
first Thursday in August, in the year 1824. 

" Mr. Chairman,— One of the Resolutions, Sir, which it is 
essentially necessary to submit to this Meeting on this day has 
been put into my hands to move. I could indeed, Sir, have 

E 2 



m 

wished, as it is at once the first and most important of the Re^- 
solutions which have been prepared for the consideration of 
those here present; as it is, in fact, the Resolution upon which 
the formation of the Association now contemplated entirely de- 
pends, that it had been placed in the hands of an abler sup- 
porter. I cannot but feel that on the fate of this Resolution is 
suspended the very existence of a Local Association, in the 
formation of which I will at once acknowledge, that, from va- 
rious considerations, I take a lively interest. But I have an 
humble confidence that a sincere zeal in the cause which has 
prevailed with me to stand forth in this place on this occasion, 
will, in your mind, and in the minds of all who hear me, atone 
for every minor defect : and I trust I shall stand excused 
when I add, that however much I expect from the indulgence 
of this Meeting, and its favourable view of the present measure, 
I may justly expect more from the exertions of the Reverend 
Brother who is to follow me in the support of the Resolution, 
which I shall presently have the honor of submitting. 

" It appears, Sir, to me, that it will be necessary for the satis- 
faction of those present, and of course for the complete success 
of the present measure, that a brief account of the Parent In- 
stitution, of which it is now designed to form a Branch in this 
Colony, should be given. In the opening of the business of 
the day, you have briefly, though perspicuously, stated the ob- 
jects of the Branch Associations in union with the Incorporated 
Society in London ; and you have, Sir, very ably pressed the 
expediency of hearty co-operation. But still I feel that it will 
be satisfactory to say something of the origin, the objects, and 
the merits of that Society, out of which, when these things are 
well understood, it will be generally confessed that a Branch 
Association in this Island should emanate. 

" If, Sir, I did not apprehend that I should too far trespass 
on the time and patience of this Meeting, I would read the 
whole of a brief account of the Parent Institution, which has 



57 

been published by the Society, and which I now hold in my 
hand ; but as I am deterred by this apprehension, 1 will en- 
deavour, in as few words as possible, to give to this Meeting an 
account of this Society. 

" The Society took its rise from the bequest of the Honour- 
able Robert Boyle, who directed by his Will, that a considerable 
portion of his personal property should be expended in the 
advancement or propagation of the Christian Religion among 
the Heathen. This object was for some time attempted to be 
promoted by applying the rents and profits of an estate pur- 
chased by the Executors, and vested in the hands of Trustees, 
to the Education and Christian Instruction of Indian Children 
in Virginia. These proceedings were under the orders and 
sanction of the High Court of Chancery. But when the Ame- 
rican Colonies ceased, from a political convulsion, to be a part 
of the British dominions, it was imagined that the Charity 
should receive a new direction, and should be applied consis- 
tently with the spirit of the Testator's Will, exclusively for the 
benefit of those benighted Heathens who live under the con- 
troul of the British Crown. Such was the decision of the High 
Court of Chancery, before which the cause was carried. And, 
accordingly, a Corporation for the Conversion and Religious 
Instruction and Education of the Negro Slaves in the 
British West Indies was erected and established by Royal 
Charter. The Society, thus established, having elected the 
Bishop of London for its President and appointed other officers, 
has, from time to time, sent out Chaplains and schoolmasters 
to the several Colonies in the West Indies for the promotion of its 
benevolent objects. Such, Sir, is the origin, such is the nature 
of the Incorporated Society. The objects are best described 
by the title which the Society takes, and to which I have al- 
ready adverted. 

" In this country, Sir, where it is exceedingly difficult to ob- 
tain accurate information on what is doing and done in the 



58 

Mother Country, and where it is still more difficult to convey 
such information to the minds of those who have never had the 
opportunity of viewing the various Charitable Institutions of 
England, it not unfrequently happens that one Society is con- 
founded with other Societies, which may have either a kindred 
name, or in some respects a similar object. Thus the term 
Missionary Society, when not defined, seems to some persons to 
include all Missionary Societies. Such has been the fate, and 
I think I may in perfect charity add, such has been the misfor- 
tune of the Society of which I now speak, and whose cause I 
now advocate. The Incorporated Society for the Conversion 
and Instruction of the Slaves has been confounded with other 
Societies which do not meet the opinion of many persons. But, 
Sir, to those who take an interest in religious matters, and have 
been in the Mother Country, it is well known that there are a 
great number of different Societies which profess to endeavour 
to advance the same cause in the manner which the respective 
peculiarity of sentiment may dictate. There is a Bible Society. 
There is a Church Missionary Society. There is a London 
Missionary Society. There is a Wesley an Missionary Society. 
There is a Baptist Missionary Society. There is also an Incor- 
porated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign 
Parts. But the Incorporated Society of which I now speak is 
none of these. I do not here make this distinction for the 
purpose of drawing any invidious comparison between these 
Societies as to their respective merits. It is quite unnecessary 
to do so ; and for the objects of some of them I entertain a high 
respect; but I do it for the purpose of endeavouring to convey 
accurate information', to shew that the object of the Incorporated 
Society is specific in its nature, and totally unobjectionable in 
its tendency. Its object is to convey religious instruction to 
the Slave population in the British West Indies, and which it is 
anxious, above measure, to convey in all that quietness of spirit 
for which the Gospel of Jesus Christ is pre-eminent, and which 



59 

is, I rejoice, as a Minister of the Establishment, to say, so 
abundantly transfused into the doctrines and principles of our 
venerable Church. This Society then, Sir, is sanctioned by the 
Royal Charter. It has for its President one of the highest 
Dignitaries of the Church. Its Officers are composed of the 
most dignified, and respectable Churchmen and Laymen. It 
has in view the improvement of the moral and spiritual condi- 
tion of your labourers. It interferes not with their civil re- 
lations. 

" It has, Sir, been suggested by the Governors of the Incor- 
porated Society for the Conversion and Religious Instruction 
and Education of the Negro Slaves in the British West Indies, 
that the views of the Society would be most effectually pro- 
moted by the formation of Associations in the Colonies in 
union with the Incorporated Society in London. The inha- 
bitants of this Colony are now here assembled, for the purpose 
of taking into consideration the expediency of such a measure. 
The objects of Local Associations are set forth in a printed 
paper, which has been transmitted by the Society to the Au- 
thorities of the Island through the highly respectable Agent, 
and to me as one of the Chaplains. By the transmission of this 
paper, the Society beg to be distinctly understood that they 
have no wish to prescribe, but merely to suggest a course of 
proceeding. It is left to those who feel anxious to promote 
the laudable views of the Society, and are at the same time ac- 
quainted with local circumstances, to alter and modify, as it may 
be proper and necessary. It is true that one of the objects of 
the Society in calling on the Colonies for the formation of Local 
Associations is to make an increase of its funds. For, at the 
present time, when they are opening many opportunities and 
increased facilities for the promotion of their views, there are 
necessarily required increased resources. But under the un- 
exampled distress by which this Colony is now oppressed, it 
will be necessary to make some regulations relative to the ap- 



60 

plication of the funds which may be raised here. The cause to 
which I have just alluded will necessarily limit. within very 
narrow bounds the contributions. It has, therefore, been pro- 
posed by those Gentlemen, who have taken an interest in the 
formation of a Branch Association in this Island, that the whole 
of the funds which shall be raised by that appeal which will 
certainly be made to you, should be, at least for the present, 
locally applied in the expenses necessarily attending the forma- 
tion of Parochial Sunday Schools, and such other contingent 
expenses, as shall be incurred here in extending the objects of 
the Society. Much, therefore, in the way of donations and 
subscriptions is not, and cannot be expected. But much good 
may be done at little pecuniary expense. The countenance of 
the owners of slaves will do much. Such persons may be able 
to suggest, from their intimate acquaintance with the habits and 
modes of thinking prevalent among the slaves, a better mode 
of proceeding than may have struck the minds of the Chaplains 
of the Society. The co-operation of the Master is of infinite 
importance. It would not be too much to say that we cannot 
proceed many steps without it. It would then be evident that 
much may be done by the inhabitants, besides giving their 
money to the support of the funds of the Society. The mani- 
festation of a good disposition will be thankfully received by 
the Governors of the Incorporated Society. And, Sir, by en- 
tering warmly into the present proceedings, this community 
will evince to the Mother Country, and I might add to the 
world at large, its sincere disposition in the sacred cause of 
evangelizing the Slaves ; it will, in some measure, at least wipe 
out the stain that has attached to its name, in common with 
other Colonies, for too lightly regarding the spiritual interest 
of the labouring classes, and each individual among us may, 
even by the smallest contribution, imitate the example of the 
poor widow, who cast in two mites into the treasury of God, 
and who drew forth from the lips of Divine Wisdom the 



61 

highest possible commendation. There may hot, Mr. Chair- 
man, be many who have to give of their abundance, but some 
trifling sacrifice may enable hundreds to give something of 
their living, and thus contribute to advance a cause which must 
on every ground stand approved to the heart of every person 
who values the blessings of civilization, morality, and religion. 
" The benefits, Sir, which it is likely will result from such 
attempts as the present, must be held to be the best argument 
for undertaking them. The diffusion of the principles of 
Christianity has ever produced a moralizing effect. Historical 
evidence will abundantly and satisfactorily prove this assertion. 
It will do so here in the case of the Negro Slaves. What 
Christianity has done in all the instances in which it has been 
fairly tried, it is but reasonable to infer it will do in others. I 
would, however, in this place, warn the too sanguine mind 
from expecting too much at too early a period. I would give 
this warning, lest disappointment might check a generous ardor. 
The progress of moral reformation is indeed slow. It is slow 
in individuals. It is slow in communities. And it may be, 
perhaps, a wise disposition of Providence that it should be so. 
We cannot then with reason expect to see any very marked im- 
provements as the result of our labours in our day. We may, 
indeed, those of us who are graciously favoured with length of 
days, see the work gradually proceeding in its course. But in 
this, as in all other cases, we must be content generously to 
labour for posterity. Men labour to improve the soil, that 
others may enjoy its more abundant productions. Men plant 
the tree, under the shade of which they are morally certain 
another shall sit. Men strive to accumulate wealth, which 
they are convinced shall purchase the comforts, and accommo- 
dations, and luxuries of life for others. Shall we then refuse 
to attempt measures, the full benefits of which will spring up 
only whett we lie mouldering with our kindred dust ? Shall 
we decline to attempt measures which arc likely to improve 



62 

those orders of our fellow creatures who are to serve our 
children ? Certainly not, Sir, I am convinced that there are 
none here who will be influenced by such narrow, such sordid, 
such selfish motives. I said, that in the cause of Christianizing 
the slaves, we must be content to labour for posterity. On re- 
flection, I would say that this is an error, that it is an inade- 
quate view of the subject, that it is a view too little spiritual ; 
for if we enter on the undertaking with proper motives, we 
shall be employed in a labour of grateful love, and this reflec- 
tion will administer to our hearts its own sweet reward in time, 
and in eternity we shall contemplate with ineffable joy the de- 
lightful result of our humble exertions. 

" Would, Sir, that I could appeal in the face of this highly 
respectable Meeting to the fruits of my own humble exertions 
as a Chaplain of the Incorporated Society, and thus furnish the 
best practical argument to induce all here to sanction the mea- 
sure proposed this day. But I would rather intreat this Meet- 
ing, convinced of the very limited success which has attended 
my exertions, not to be influenced by that which may be called 
past failure. Before very many years have passed away, I 
shall have been gathered to the ministers of former times to 
give an account of the manner in which I have fulfilled my 
stewardship. And others more zealous, more laborious, more 
unwearied, and, it may be, more disinterested, may come 
among you, and effect under happier circumstances a mighty 
and desirable change. You are now but laying the foundation 
on which a future structure is to be raised. Convinced, Sir, 
of the great excellence of the objects of the Parent Institution, 
convinced of the unexceptionable means by which it would 
promote these objects, convinced also of the great advantages 
which will be derived from Branch Associations, I beg to sub- 
mit this Resolution. 

" ' That a Branch Association for promoting the Conversion 
* and Religious Instruction of the Negroes in this Island, 



63 

' in union with the incorporated Society in London, be now 
1 formed.' 

" As this, Sir, is the Resolution on which the very being of 
the Association rests, it is but fair that it should be stated, that 
after it has been seconded by the Reverend Gentleman who 
has promised to support it, it will be for those, if there be any 
such, who have objections, to urge them in this stage of our 
proceedings." 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 



* # * It is requested that a Communication of any Errors or Omissions 
may be made to the Secret ary, at No. 14, Duke Street, Westmin- 
ster ; and that all fresh Subscribers will forward their Names and 
Addresses, as they tvish them to appear in the Subscription List. 



£. s. d. 

His R. H. the Duke of Clarence 10 

Her R. H. the Duchess of Clarence _,-..,-. 10 

A. 

Ames, G. Esq. Bristol ... , . 2 2 

Ancram, H.M. Esq. NewBoswell Court, Lincoln's- Inn 110 

Andrewes, Very Rev. G. D.D. Dean of Canterbury 2 2 

B. 

Bathurst, Earl 10 10 

Bexley, Lord, 30, Great George Street, Westminster 10 10 

Bristol, Earl of, St. James's Square (and donation) 5 5 

Bristol, Rt. Rev. John, Lord Bishop of 2 2 

Barbados, Rt Rev. William Hart, Lord Bishop of 2 2 

Baillie, James, Esq 2 2 

Barnes, Esq 2 2 

Barrett, Rev. J. T. D.D. 14, Duke Street, Westminster 2 2 

Batt, I. T. Esq. New Hall, mar Salisbury 2 2 



66 

£. A. rf. 

Bayley, Alexander, Esq. Bristol 2 2 

Bayley, F. S. Esq 2 2 

Beckford, Francis, Esq. Southampton 5 5 

Beckford, Horace, Esq. 40, Upper Grosvenor Street . . 5 5 

Beckford, W . Esq. Copthall Court, Throgmorton Street 2 2 

Benson, Rev. C. M.A. Rector of St. Giles's . . ►*.. ... 110 
Beresford, Rev. G. M.A. Rector of St. Andrew's, 

Holborn 2 2 

Bigg, Miss ._.. 1 1 

Bigg, Miss Emma - 110 

Blair, James, Esq. M.P. Bryanstone Square 2 2 

Blatcb, Rev. James, M.A. Vicar of Basingstoke .... 1 1 

Boddington, Samuel, Esq. 3, Mansion House Place. . 2 2 

Bonville, Thomas, Esq. Bristol 2 2 

Bouverie, Hon. B. Edward St reet, P oilman Square. . 2 2 

Bowdler, Rev. T. Rector of Ash, near Farninghum . . 2 2 

Branscomb, Miss 1 1 

Brickley, B. Esq. Bristol 2 2 

Briel, Miss 2 2 

Bright, H. Esq. M.P. 2, Stone Build. Lincoln's-Inn 2 2 

Bright, Robert, Esq. Bristol (and donation) 2 2 

Briscoe, Sir W. Bart. 64, Wimpole Street 2 2 

Brooke, Mrs. Langford , Stratford Place , , 5 5 

Byam, Rev. R. B. King's College, Cambridge 2 2 

Bush, R. Esq. Bristol 2 2 

C. 

Canterbury, Most Rev. Charles, Lord Arch- 
bishop of. .„-..-... 10 10 

Chester, Rt. Rev. Charles James, Lord Bishop of, 2 2 

Calthorpe, Lord 5 5 

Combermere, Lord i _.. 5 

Cambridge, Rev. G. Owen, M.A. Archd. of Middl. 5 5 

Campbell, Rev. A- M. M.A. Russell Square 2 2 

Carrington, Geo. Esq. , 2 2 

Champagne, Rev. George, Canon of Windsor ...... 50 

Clarke, Sir Simon H. Bart, (and donation). 2 2 

12 



e. 


*. 


rf. 


i 


1 





2 


2 





2 


2 





2 


2 





2 


2 





2 


2 





2 


2 





2 


2 






67 



Cobham, J. B. Esq. Oriel College, Oxford 

Colquhoun, Jas, Esq. 13, St. James's Place .,-.... 

Connop, N. Jun. Esq. 7, Whitehall 2 

Cotton, George, Esq. . 

Cust, Hon. and Rev. R. 26, Great George Street . . 

Ciist, Hon. Mrs. Edward Ditto 

Cust, Hon. Miss - . . . Ditto 

Cust, Hon. and Rev. H. C 2 



D. 

Durham, Hon. and Rt. Rev. Shute, Lord Bishop of 10 10 

Dalling, Sir W. W. Bart 2 

Daniel, Thomas, Esq. Bristol (and donation) 2 

Daniel, Thomas, and Co. 4, Mincing Lane .....;.. 2 
Davidson, H. Esq. Red Lion Hill, Hampstead (and 

donation) 2 

Dawson, J. H. Massey, Esq. M.P. 87, Gloucester PL 2 

Dennis, Mrs. Norbiton, Surrey 2 

Dickin, G. Esq. 29, Queen Street, Cheapside 1 

Dixon, Rev. W. H. Prebendary of Ripon, ......... 1 

Dodd, Rev. P. Rector of Penshurst, Kent 2 

D'Oyly, Rev G. D.D. Rector of Lambeth .. 2 

Drake, J. Esq . „ 2 

Drayton, Philip, Esq. Bristol . . . t 2 

Drinkwater, John, Esq. Liverpool 1 

Dynot, W. Esq , . 2 

Dyson, Jer h . Esq. New Palace Yard j 2 

E. 

Exeter, Right Rev. William, Lord Bishop of. ... 2 2 

East, Sir E. Hyde, Bart. M.P. 12, Stratford Place. . . 2 2 

Ellis, John, Esq .. _ 2 2 

Ellis, John, Jun. Esq 2 2 

Ellis, Capt. C. Grenadier Guards ._* "2 2 

Ellis, C. R. Esq. M.P. 2, Audley Square (and don.) 10 10 

Empson, William, Esq 2 

Evans, Alexander, Ksq. Kingston, Jamaica 2 2 






b 


2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





1 





1 





2 





2 





2 





2 





1 





2 





2 






2 


6 


2 





1 





2 





2 





2 





2 





2 






68 

F. 

£. ft £ 

Feruier, Mrs. F .. 2 

Ford, Sir Francis, Bart 2 

Foster, Rev. T. Rector of Tinwell, Rutland 1 

Fox, John, Esq. Redtory House, Cornhill 2 

G. 

Gale, E. M. Esq. Upton, Warwickshire « 2 2 

Gallwey, General Sir W. P. Bart 2 

George, C. Esq. Bristol 2 

Gibbs, George, Esq. Bristol ... 2 

Gilbert, Richard, Esq. Euston Square *..., 2 2 

Gordon, Robert H. Esq. 37, Conduit Street 10 10 

Goulburn, Right Hon. H.,M.P. (and donation) .... 5 5 

Graham, J. H. Esq 1 1 

Grant, Sir Alexander, Bart 2 20 

Grassett, Win, Esq. Stone/tall, West Godstone, Surry 2 2 

Grosett, J. R. Esq. M.P. 68, Wimpole Street (and don.) 2 2 

Guardian, The British 11 

H. 

Holland, Lord, Kensington ....... 2 2 

Howard de Walden, Lord 2 2 

Howe, Countess 2 2 

Hall, Thomas K. Esq. Holly Bush 2 2 

Hall, Thomas, Esq. Grove Terrace, Camberwell 2 2 

Hall, Robert W. Esq 2 2 

Hawkins, Rev. E. 2 2 

Hibbert, George, Esq. Billiter Square (and donation) 2 2 

Hibberts, Messrs. and Co. Ditto 5 5 

Hichens, R. Esq. 11 , Threadneedle Street (and don.) 2 2 

Higgin, J. Esq ...... 2 2 

Hodgson, Adam, Esq. Liverpool 2 2 

Hodgson, Very Rev. R. D D. Dean of Carlisle 2 2 

Hodson, Rev. S. Rector of Thrapstone 1 1 

Holme, Miss, 59, Wimpole Street 1 1 

Holmes, W. Esq. M.P. Graf ton Street (and donation) 2 2 

Homfray, Rev. F. R. Lanvayer, Kilgedden, Monmouth 110 

Horsfall, Charles, Esq. Liverpool ,.. 2 2 



2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





1 





2 






69 

£. s, (I. 

Howard, John, Esq. Ripon 110 

Howell, George, Esq. Bristol . 2 2 

Howlett, Jobn, Esq. 5, Chatham Place, Hackney .... 2 2 
Huskisson, Right Hon. W., M.P 10 10 



Jamaica, Rt. Rev. Christopher, Lord Bishop of .. 2 

Jenkins, W. Esq. Lime Street Square ...... . . . . .-. 2 

Inues, J. Csq. 3, Copthall Court, Throgmorton Street . . 2 

Jones, Rev. H 2 

Jordan, J, W. Esq 2 

Irvin, Wm. Esq. Queen's College, Oxford . . . ; 1 

Irlam, George, Esq. Liverpool „,.««.. 2 

K. 

Kenyon, Lord (and donation) 5 

Kerie, Jed. Esq. Montague Square 2 

King, Thomas, Esq. New Court, Old Broad Street . . 2 

King, William, Esq ditto,... 2 



L. 

Liverpool, Earl of 10 10 

London, Right Hon. and Right Rev. William, Lord 

Bishop of, St. James's Square . . 10 10 

Lichfield & Coventry, Hon. and Right Rev. 

Henry, Lord Bishop of 3 3 

Llandaff, Right Rev. William, Lord Bishop of, 

Deanery, St. PauVs (and donation) 5 

Laing, James, Esq. Dominica, Streatham 2 

Lang, Robert, Esq 2 

Law, Rev. John, D.D. Archdeacon of Rochester . . 2 

Lee, Thomas, Esq. Liverpool .... «-...-. „ 2 

Lewis, J. Esq. 28, Brook Street 2 

Litt and Harrison, Messrs. 50, Lime Street (and don.) 2 

Littledale, Isaac, Esq. Liverpool 1 

Lonsdale, Rev. J. B.D. Queen Square, Westminster. . 2 

F 



5 





2 





2 





2 






5 





2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





1 





2 






70 

£. s. d. 

Lovell, Langford, Esq. 14, New City Chambers 5 5 

Lj all, Rev. W. R. M.A. Archdeacon oP Colchester 2 2 

M. 

Mac Garel, Charles, Esq M -. 2 2 

Mackenzie, K. F. Esq. Liverpool. . ..... ... . . . , 2 2 

M'Leod, Rev. Dr. 58, Dean Street, Solio 2 2 

Mac Nish, Charles, Esq. . 2 2 

Macqueen, J. Esq , 2 2 

Malcolm, Neil, Esq 2 2 

Manning, W. Esq. M. P. Neiv Batik Buildings ....... 2 2 

Maples, Captain J. F J 2 

Markland, J. H. Esq. Paper Buildings, Temple .... 220 

Marryat and Sons, Messrs -.—... 2 2 

Martin, Sir H. W. Bart. Barley Street (and don.).. . 5 5 

Martin, Josiali, Esq. 4, Nottingham Place (and don.) 5 5 

Mathison, G. Esq , 2 2 

Matthew, E. G. Esq. Kingston, Jamaica , I 1 

Mayers, J. P. Esq M 2 2 

Miles, P. J. Esq. M.P. Hamilton Place 2 2 

Miller, James, Esq. St. Elizabeth, Jamaica 2 2 

Mitchell, J. Esq. M.P- 35, Wimpole Street 22 

Mitchell, W. Esq. 50, Harley Street. 2 2 

Mitchell, R. Esq. 85, ditto 2 2 

Mitchell, James H. Esq. Astrop, Northampton 2 2 

Mitchell, , Esq 2 2 

Monk, Very Rev. J. H. D.D. Dean of Peterborough 2 2 

Montague, W. Rhodes, Esq. Bristol..., 2 2 

Moody, Major 2 2 

Moss, John, Esq. Liverpool 2 2 

Murray, W. Esq.-.. 2 2 

Myers, W. Esq. Liverpool 2 2 



N. 







Needham, Major-General, Clifton 2 2 

Newman, Rev. 5. H. Oriel-College . ... 1 1 

Nicholl, Richard, Esq. St. Vincents 2 2 



71 

Norris, Rev. H. H. M.A. Hackney 
Nurse, Rev. B. T. B.A. Demerara 
Nurse, J. B. Esq -. 





s. 


,1 


2 


2 





1 


1 





1 


1 






2 



O. 

Oglander, Lt. Col. Henry 2 

P. 

Pusey, Lady Emily 2 

Packer, Rev. John, Barbados 1 ! ° 

Pallmer, C. N. Esq. Norbiton Park, Surrey 5 5 

Pallmer, Mrs. Ditto - 5 5 

Palmer, Miss • 110 

Panton, Dr. Elm Court, Temple 2 2 

Panton, E. Esq. Ditto 2 2 

Panton, Richard, Esq. Widcombe, Bath 2 2 

Parry, Rev. , Archdeacon of Antigua 110 

Payne, Charles, Esq. Clifton 2 2 

Peart, John, Esq Ditto 2 2 

Peel, Right Hon. R., M.P. Whitehall . 10 10 

Pellew, Hon. George 2 2 

Philpotts, Rev. H. D.D. Rector of Stanhope 2 2 

Pinder, F. F. Esq, 39, Nottingham Place 1 1 

Pinder, Rev. J. II. B. A. Barbados 1 1 

Pinney, Charles, Esq. Bristol .... (and donation) . . 220 

Poole, R. Esq 2 2 

Pope, Rev. E. 31. A. Archdeacon of Jamaica 2 2 

Postle, Rev. Gunter, R. Ringford, Beccles 2 2 

Powell, Thomas, Esq. Westbury, Gloucester shire.... 2 2 

Pratt, Rev. J •*.-... ......*. 2 2 

Protheroe, P. and G. Esqrs. Bristol (and donation) 4 4 

Pusey, Hon. P. Grosvenor Square ..«.*. 3 3 

R. 

Rees, Rev. Thomas, D.D. Bristol 110 

Richards, Rev. G. D.D. V. St. Martin in the Fields. . 2 2 

Richards, Rev. E.F. _....«-...- 2 2 

Ricketts, T. B. Esq. Combe, Hereford 2 2 

f2 



72 

£. s. d. 

Robinson, Rt. Hon. F. J., M.P. Downing Street 10 10 

Robinson, Sir C. 47, Bedford Square 2 20 

Robinson, Skiffington, Esq. 12, Broad Street Mews. . 2 2 

Roe, John, Esq. 25, Upper Bedford Place, Russel Sq. 2 2 

Roe, Dr 2 2 

Rose, Mrs. Theodora, Palace Yard, Westminster .... 1 1 

Rose, Miss F. Theodora Ditto 110 

Rncker, J. A. Esq. Mincing Lane 2 2 

Rucker, D. H. Esq. . ... Ditto (and donation) . . 2 2 



St. Vincent, Earl ., —**•- 5 5 

Sandbach, Samuel, Esq. Liverpool 2 2 

Sandford, Rev. B. V. Farningham, Kent (and don.) 2 2 

Shand, C. Esq. Liverpool 2 2 

Shepherd, Rev. H.«.., 110 

Shepherd, Rev. G. D.D. Preacher of Gray's Inn. ... 220 

Shipley, Very Rev. W. D. M.A. Dean of St. Asaph 2 2 

Smith, Samuel, M. Esq. Liverpool 1 1 

Smith, George, Esq. M.P. 1, Upper Harley Street . . 2 2 

Stewart, Alex. Esq. Winchester House, Broad Street 2 2 

Stewart John, Esq. 3, Albany 2 2 

T. 

Taj lor, Robert, Esq. Billiter Square 2 2 

Taylor, Simon, Esq Ditto 2 2 

Taylor, G. W. Esq. Cavendish Square (and donation) 10 10 

Timperon, Joseph, Esq. 26, Philpot Lane 2 2 

Tinne, P. F. Esq. Liverpool 2 2 

Tollemache, Admiral, 148, Piccadilly 2 2 

V. 

Vaughan, John, Esq. Bristol 2 2 

Vaughan, Philip, Esq. Ditto 2 2 

Vaughan, P. Esq. Fenchurch Street .. 2 2 

Vaughan, Wm. Esq. Ditto 2 2 

Vaux, Rev. Wm. M.A. Lambeth Palace . 2 2 

Vidal,J.J. Esq. Clifton «„♦ 2 2 

10 



73 



W. 

£. 

Waddilove, W. J. D. Esq 2 

Waddilove, Mrs 2 

Waddilove, Rev. W. J. D. Thorp, Yorkshire 2 

Ward, Rev. J. G. M.A. Chelmsford 1 

Watson, Joshua, Esq. 6, Pwk Street, Westminster . . 10 

Watson, George, Esq. Kingston, Jamaica 2 

White, Rev. Mr 2 

Wigram, Rev. Josiah 2 

Wilberforce, W. Esq. M.P. Kensington Gore 5 

Williams, Rev. Mr. Hendon (and donation) 1 

Williams, C. N. Esq. Epsom, Surrey 2 

Willink, Daniel, Esq. Liverpool 2 

Willis, Rev. Dr. Rectory, Bloomsbury 2 

Wilson, Win. Esq. 32, Fenchurck Street 2 

Wilson, J. Esq. Liverpool 2 

Wilson, Rev. H. B. D. D. Laurence Pountney Lane . . 1 

Winter, N. Esq 2 

Wordsworth, Rev. C. D. D. Master of Trin. Col. Camb. 2 

Wrench, Rev. T. R. Rector of St. Michael's, Cornhill 1 

Wyatt, Miss Isabella, Dixfield, Exeter (and don.) . . 2 



Y. 



York, Most Rev. Edward, Lord A.rchbishop of 10 10 

Yard, T. Esq. Southampton 1 1 

Yates, J. B. Esq. Liverpool -. .. 2 2 

Yonge, Mrs. ISodrydden ....—.— . 2 2 



s. 


d. 


2 





2 





2 





1 











2 





2 





2 





5 





1 





2 





2 





2 





2 





2 





1 





2 





2 





1 





2 






{List of Donors on next page. 



LIST of DONORS. 

£. 
West India Planters and Merchants of London ..*... 1000 

West India Planters and Merchants of Liverpool . . 100 

West India Planters and Merchants of Glasgow . . 100 

Gloucester, H. R. H. the Duke of 31 

Anonymous 3 

Bristol, Earl of. .(and subscription) ....... 21 

Babington, T. Esq. Rothley Temple, Leicesters 5 

Baillie, Evan and Sons, Esqrs ditto 5 

Barham, J. F. Esq 20 

C. Bartram, Esq. London Bridge 2 

Batt, J. T. Esq. 12, South A udley Street ... „^ 2 

Bayley, Sir F. S. Bart. Prince of Wales's Island ..... 2 

Beeke, Very Rev. H. D.D. Dean of Bristol 10 

Bright, R. Esq. Bristol (and subscription) 21 

Burnej', Rev. Dr 21 

CD. 5 

Clarke, Sir S. H. (and subscription) 5 

Claxton, W. Esq. Bristol ... 1 

Cookson, Rev. T. R. Whittering, Northampton.. r . . * 1 

Cooper, B. Esq. Stamford „ 1 

Cotton, W. Esq. Laytonstone, Essex 21 

Crawford, Rev. W. D.D. Archdeacon of Carmarthen 10 

Dartmouth, Earl of .. 10 

Daniel, Thomas, Esq. Bristol (and subscription). . . . 5 

Darnell, Rev. W. N. B.D. Prebendary of Durham . . 5 
Davidson, Barkly and Co. 6, Lime Street Square, 

(and subscription) -, 10 

Durham, Dean and Chapter of 21 

Edwards, Rev. H. H. M. A . Great Deans' Yard, Westm. 20 

Ellis, C. R. Esq. M.P. 2, Audley Square (and sub.) . . 10 

England, Rev. W. D.D. Archdeacon of Dorset.. .... 10 

Fedder, O. Esq 1 

Ford, Alexander and James, Esqrs. Bristol 2 

Forster, Francis, Esq 5 

Franklyn, Mrs. 28, Gloucester Place , 5 



s. 


d. 




















10 





3 





























2 





2 





2 



































1 











1 



































10 

















10 











1 





2 


















75 

£. s. (I 

Frazer, Hon. W. and Co. 71 , Cornhill 8 8 

Fyffe, D. Esq. Dundee 5 

Galpine, F. J- Esq 1 1 

Goulburn, Right Hon. H., M.P. (and subscription). . 5 

Gray, Rev. W. M.A. V. Brafferton, Yorkshire 10 

Greaves, Rev. G. Oakham, Rutlandshire 1 1 

Grosett, J. R. Esq. M.P. 68, Wimpole Street (and sub.) 10 

Gurry, J. Esq. Bustrey, near Waif or d ... 20 

Hervey, Lord ....^. 10 

H. H 1 

Hammet, James, Esq. Lansdown Crescent, Bath .... 21 

Hardinge, Sir R. Bart. Sundridge, Kent 5 

Hervey, Wm. Esq. Acton 10 

Hibbert, George, Esq. Billiter Square (and sub.) . . 21 

Hichens, R. Esq. 11, Threadneedle Street (and sub.) 10 10 

Holden, W. Esq. New City Chambers 5 5 

Holmes, W. Esq. M.P. Grafton Street (and subs.) . . 10 

Hopkinson, W. Esq. Stamford 5 

Hughes Rev. Dr. Prebendary of St. Paul's 20 

Hunt, Miss 1 l o 

Ireland, Very Rev. J. D.D. Dean of Westminster .. 20 O 

Johnson, Thomas, Esq. Bristol 1 1 (J 

Kenyon, Lord (and subscription) 20 

Kindersley, N. E. Esq. , 3 

Llandaff, Rt. Rev. William, Lord Bishop of, 

Deanery, St. Paul's (and subscription) 21 

Lady,A -«...-... 1 1 

Lawrence, J. H. Esq v* 110 

Leigh, J. H. Esq 5 

Litt and Harrison, Esqrs. (and subscription) ►-..... 2 2 

Lloyd, Rev. F „ - 10 

M.A.B 10 

Martin, Sir H. W. Bart. Harley Street (and sub.) . . 10 10 

Martin, Josiab, Esq. 4, Nottingham Place (and sub.) 5 5 

Mayres, H. A. Esq. Bristol j i o 

Montgomery, Mrs 1 l o 



7G 

£. s. d. 

Nicoll, Thomas, Esq. Kingston, Jamaica. 110 

N.utcomb, Miss, Exeter 110 

Palmer, J. H. Esq. King's- Arms Yard 21 

Pearson, John, Esq. Golden Square 20 

Pennant, G. H. Dawkins, Esq. M.P. 56, Portl Place 25 

Pinney, C. Esq. Bristol (and subscription) 5 

Protheroe, P. and G. Esqrs. Ditto (and subscription) 5 5 

Pym.Rev.W 5 5 

Rose, Rt. Hon. Sir G. H....... 20 

Rucker, D. H. Esq. Mincing Zane (and.subscription) 2 2 

Sandford, Rev. B. V. Farnhigham, Kent (and snb.). , 5 5 

Saumarez, Rev. James ... 5 

Savage, Mrs. Surhiton, Surrey . ... .-....- 10 

Sherborne, Robt. Esq. Itavenhead, near Prcscot, Lane. 20 

Shore, Rev. T. W. C. A 11 Souls, Stamford 1 

Sikes, Snaith/and Co. Esqrs. 5, Mansion House Street 5 5 

Teignmouth, Loud 5 5 

Taylor, G. W. Esq. Cavendish Square (and subscrip.) 10 10 

Trant, W. H. Esq. M.P. Portland Place . 20 

Twopeny, Rev. Rich. M.A. Little Casterton, Stamf. 110 

Vanhouse, J. Esq. 37, Mincing Lane 110 

Vaughan, J. and P. Esqrs. Bristol 5 

Watson, Rev. J. J. D.D. Archdeacon of St. Alban's, 

Rectory-house, Hackney 21 

Watson, Mrs. Joshua, 6, Park Street, Westminster . . 10 

Weare, Wm. Esq. Bristol 5 

Williams, Rev. Mr. Hendon (and subscription) .... 5 

Woodhouse, Messrs. M.A. and J. P. Mincing Lane . . 2 2 
Wright, J. S. Esq. Nottingham 



21 



Wyatt, Miss Isabella, Dixfield, Exeter (and sub.) . . 10 10 



Printed by R. Gilbert, St. John's Square, London. 



