TWO LETTERS, 



ON THE 



STATE OF THE NEGROES 



IN THE 



WEST INDIES, 



BY 






PRINTED BY J. WEBB, BINDER, BOOK AND MUSIC-SELLER, &C, 

1824. 



x^.jiQ-rsiT 



To the Editor of the Globe and Traveli^ek, 

Of December 9ih, 1823. 
SlRj 



Perhaps I may be assuming too great a liberty 
in venturing a few remarks on the leading article of 
the Globe and Traveller of 1st. Dec. If impar- 
tiality, however, is, as I have no reason to doubt, 
one of the characteristics of your paper, of which I 
have been a reader for very many years, alvt^ays with 
interest, and for the most part, though with some 
exceptions, with acquiescence in sentiment, you will, 
by the insertion of the following, admit the claim 
of audi alteram partem. 

It is the fashion of the day, and may flatter po- 
pular feehng, to decry the West Indians — -they are 
the butt of whoever wishes to exercise his spleen. 
That interest is indeed, independent of the imminent 
peril in which its existence stands, peculiarly de- 
pressed. But though experience shows, that in all 
countries the refuse of the population delight in 
exulting over the unfortunate, one would have 



4 



thought that the dignity of a well-conducted pub- 
lication, would have refrained from what might bear 
the appearance of similar conduct. 

Let me, in the first place, premise, that I fully 
approve the strong, and not generally known enact- 
ments of the Jamaica Assembly, for the protection of 
the blacks from oppression ; and sincerely wish, that 
if any thing were wanting, to make such protection 
more complete and more efficient, it might be sup- 
plied by any safe and judicious means, in this and 
all our other Islands. Farther, that from the first 
hour when the abolition of the Slave Trade was 
proposed, to the present one, I was the well-wisher, 
and, as far as my limited means go, the advocate of 
that measure. But I know not in what country 
upon earth the laws would visit the present gen- 
eration, for sins committed a hundred years before 
they were bom, with privation of property, and with 
danger to the lives of many of them. Such would 
be, and in part has been, the effect of only agitating 
the question called emancipation ; but which, in 
fact, would be plunging countries hitherto peaceful, 
happy, and contented, into all the endurances of 
starvation, civil war, brutality, and assassination — ^a 
proceeding of which the dictate is hypocrisy ; the 
means, delusion ; the result, wide spreading desola- 
tion and murder. It is paying too dear a price to 
procure a temporary burst of popular applause, and 
a reputation of sanctified benevolence for a few pha- 
risaical associates, to immolate hundreds of lives, as 
has already happened at Demerara; and probably, 
ere this, or shortly, thousands more elsewhere : to 
exchange a state of tranquility, of mutual good will 
and good offices, for horrors, perchance, far more 
appaliing than those which for years desolated Do- 
mingo, and purpled its streams with blood. 



But lo come more immediately to the subject of 
the article I would reply to. Gentlemen sitting at 
their printing-offices in London, may think them- 
selves qualified to counsel the West Indians, that 
the cultivation by slaves is expensive. Fortunate 
indeed, as well as desirable would it have been for 
the latter, if slavery had never existed, and had their 
predecessors vested their capitals elsewhere, and had 
not been lured to the sacrifice of them, by the en- 
couragement and instigation, not of their own As^, 
semblies, but of the British Legislature. That 
Negroes are expensive, they know to their cost. 
And why ? Because they do not suffer them, like 
millions of our fellow subjects, to drag out a miser- 
able existence, almost naked and houseless, in an 
inclement climate, upon such remnant of a preca- 
rious crop of oats or potatoes, as the middleman or 
tithe-proctor may spare to them ; because they do not, 
when aged or feeble, or no longer wanted, imprison 
them in loathsome workhouses, or, when in fault, 
in pestilential penitentiaries ; because they do not, 
as in the Highlands of Scotland, so soon as more 
profit is hoped for in some other way, dilapidate 
habitations, expel their inmates from house and 
home, to perish in some ship crowded like a Guinea 
vessel, or, if they reach land, upon sonae inhospitable ! 
desert. But because they provide Negroes with 
land as much as they wish for, allowing time suj- 
iicient for its cultivation; because they rejoice to ' 
see them possessed of property and cattle, and bles- ^ 
sed with every comfort ; because clothing and food . 
at all times, and particularly during dearth, are re- 
gularly provided, even almost beyond the means of 
the proprietor ; because medical aid, at the cost of 
£. 100 yearly on considerable estates, and accom- 
modations for the sick are supplied; because no ' 



6 



one in decrepitude, or childhood, or old age, is left 
to want ; because less labour is expected from three 
negroes than is here performed by one white man. 

Far from being, from principle attached to slavery, 
the Proprietors readily emancipate deserving negroes, 
for a just compensation for the cost of bringing them 
up. 

Now, as to the relation between the Parent Coun- 
try and these Colonies : — It were ungrateful to deny 
that it is mutually advantageous, or at least has been 
so ; but to whom most ? From the imports thence, 
England derives a clear revenue of several millions ; 
there is a certain vent for no inconsiderable portion 
of manufactured goods. Ignorant indeed, would 
that statesman be, who does not perceive that Colo- 
nies and Commerce are closely connected, that both 
are the nerve of naval power, and indispensible for 
preserving the independence of an insular State, 
from subjection to nations incomparably more exten- 
sive, and abounding in internal resources. 

Without these Colonies, their products must 
chiefly be paid for to foreigners, with the loss not 
only of the attendant commerce and shipping, but 
with an annual drain of capital that would quickly 
tend to impoverish us. With the Colonies, not 
only a necessary article is abundantly and cheaply 
provided, but an influx of wealth is poured into 
the country by the exportation of part. As to the 
mimic of sugar coming from the East Indies, it is 
only fit to impose upon unwary purchasers, who 
look at colour only, without regard to intrinsic 
quality. There were sufficient reasons for a duty 
much higher than the prssent one, were it only to 



T 



protect the buyers from wasting their uioney t)it a 
woi'thless powder. It would be as right to guard' 
against it, as against spurious beer. 

On the other hand — to return to the question of 
mutual advantage, the Planter of late years has em- 
ployed his capital and labour for the public rather 
than for himself. It is known that many estates do 
not bear out their expenses ; and fortunate are those, 
who derive as great a portion of clear profit as the 
tithe-owner does from a field of corn not his own. 

In writing about sugar at three-pence a pound, do 
you not know. Sir, or do you wish to keep out of 
view, that the revenue takes virtually more than this, 
by a duty, the minimum of which is 27s. per cwt. 
levied upon a greater weight than the purchasers 
pay for, no matter whether the purchaser pays or 
fails — in which latter case, duty, expenses, and cost 
are all involved ! The duty is thus, in fact, more 
than three-pence — the import and selling expenses 
one penny — and reckoning the cost of production at 
only two-pence, then, at 60^. per cwt. scarcely four 
shillings per cwt. remain to the grower. Is not this 
almost confiscation ! 

If our Planters did not bring sugar to market as 
low as it can be grown any where, exportation of 
raw sugar could not take place. That man is the 
real enemy of the black population who would 
bring the proprietors to poverty. Then there would 
be universal distress there indeed — not fictitious, but 
real I Supplies of all necessaries must cease, and 
in the populous smaller islands thousands must perish 
bv hunger. 



8 



The West Indian islanders are, and ever wish to 
be, most loyally attached to the Mother Country. 
They trust they are appreciated, and will be pro- 
tected, by a great majority in Parliament, and by 
Ministers. Should opposite counsels ever prevail, 
let it be remembered what have been the results in 
Spain, to Portugal, and to England, from driving 
colonists to despair. 



TO 



The President, at the late Meeting of the 
Planters, Merchants, and Persons: 
otherwise interested in the West Indian 
Colonies, 



Sir, 



As the ably-worded and unexceptionable Petition, 
agreed to at our late Meeting, comprised only an 
assertion of our right to our properties, or to a com- 
pensation for them, I was led to infer that much 
debate upon the general question might be con- 
sidered rather out of place. It also occurred to me, 
that to argue a contested question in the absence of 
the adverse party, might not be the most manly 
course, and that it might be said, that victory was 
easy, where there was no opponent. These con- 
siderations, together with a misgiving, attendant 
upon an attempt to address so respectable an assem- 
bly, induced me to refrain from soliciting its attention 
for a few minutes, as I had previously intended. At 
the same time, the remark made by one of the 
speakers, that we have hitherto been too remiss, and 
far behind our antagonists in industry, and in at- 
tracting the public ear, struck me as well grounded. 
They have fully availed themselves of the antipathy 
to the very word — Slavery — which naturally prevails 



10 



eve.Yy ^vliere, but most in tliis happily free country* 
At the same time, it might not be|clifficult to shew, 
that this is now, even more than before, the only- 
leg their cause has to stand on ; while those leading 
motives which should guide every public measure, 
justice, policy, and humanity, all plead on our side. 
in one way indeed, they have been but too suc- 
cessful, in exciting prejudice and odium against us. 
Active and malignant emissaries have ransacked the 
islands, to seek out instances of supposed or fa- 
bricated oppression or tyrrany, on the part of the 
proprietors or their agents. A mass of calumnies 
was at last conjured up, and concocted of the mos^ 
unhallowed materials. 

" Toad, that under the cold stone, 
" Days and nights hath many a one 

'' S welter M venom 

" Adders fork, and blind-worm^s sting ; 

* «r * * 

'' Root of hemlock, digg'd i' the dark; 

* * * « 

" Add thereto a tiger^s chaudron, 
"For the ingredients of our cauldron, 
'^ For a charm of powerful trouble, 
, '' Like a hell-broth boil and bubbie.^^ 

It is probable that an attempt will still be made 
to pour the almost exhausted dregs down the throats 
of the ignorant. But persons of information and 
impartiality now perceive, that they have wholly 
failed in making out a case. Some few instances of 
hai'shness may have occurred, particularly on the 
part of persons of colour ; some atrocities were com- 
mitted, though not of late years ; but for the rest^ 
to be silent about the navy and army, county or 
towt;]magistrat^SpM ho le^d their ear to the statements 



ii 



of parish apprentices, will find that there is there, 
perhaps more real cause of complaint. In short, the 
argument of the emancipators on the score of ty- 
ranny, is about reduced to this, " the whites, how- 
ever, might have acted oppressively/.'^ Might? 
So might a man here, commit any crime, but he 
would be ameoable to the law. In like manner, in 
Jamaica, a man might injure a negro, but he would 
be amenable to laws, and very strict ones too, enacted 
for their protection. [«] 

While calumnies have been disproved, thePlantei-s 
are enabled to establish, upon the concurring testi- 
mony of all unprejudiced persons best acquainted 
with circumstances, whether from local knowledge, 
or correct information, derived from those who are 
connected with them, that the negroes are well fed, 
comfortably housed, (as far as the climate and their 
own habits require,) moderately worked ; cared for 
in their inflincy, sickness, and age ; possessed in 
many instances of property, in undisturbed and un- 
taxed enjoyment; and, until the demon of disturbance 
was in action, attached, happy, and contented. [*] 

[a] Much has been said about the evidence of Negroes not 
being admitted in Courts of Justice. It were to be wished that 
they were in a situation to give credible evidence, but they arc 
without any defined religion, those, comparatively few excepted, 
who have been converted to Christianity. As little would their 
evidence be admissible here, without some test of veracity. A 
Jew may swear by the Old Testament ; a Quaker's affirmation 
may be believed; a Mahomedan, may perhaps be believed upon 
his Koran. But a heathenish Negro must swear by his Obeahs, 
or by the little idols that stand on his chimney-piece. To what 
absurdities would emancipators lead us ! 

[b] Instances can be produced of estates where the Negroes 
have for half a century, without accession from without, not 
diminished, but increased. And this, notv/ith standing the man- 
umission of some, and one or two condemned by the Courts to 



12 



Qne instance of the liberality of the Plantei-s ought 
not to be overlooked, as it is perhaps without para- 
lel ; if the price of the produce of land lowers, the 
cultivators find it needful to lower v^ages ; if man- 
ufactured goods do not sell well, liot only those 
employers who are straightened, hut those who roll 
in wealth, reduce earnings to the lowest possible 
limit of human endurance. Not so the West Indian ; 
though his means have been impaired more than 
those of any other class in this country within 
memory, amidst the privations he and his family 
endure, I believe I may say, (subject to conection, if 
wrong, from the gentlemen who care for the send- 
ing out of supplies,) that in the articles of food, 
clothing, and comforts for the negroes, there is 
scarcely an instance of reduction. 

Before I proceed to a farther consideration of 
aur main subject, I would premise, that it would be 
unwarranted to impute motives, other than such as 
are developed by facts» rather ought the most favor- 
able construction to be put. The previously 
established character of some of our opponents, and 
I am bound to add, the public benefits they have 
effected, would lead us to prejudge, that they were 



deportation to the Spanish colonies, the heaviest sentence pro- 
nounced in cases of repeated and atrocious robbery. The negroes 
possess a very large stock of pigs, and the more industrious, one or 
more cows, depastured on the estate, besides obtaining no small 
gains by the sale of their poultry and fruit. Some are possessed 
of property to the amount of £. 500 currency, and from that 
downwards. Those who come to Europe, unless their habits 
are altered by a long abode here, uniformly wish to return. As 
for Africa, it is the last place they would hanker after. Impor- 
tation having been proved to have wholly ceased in the British 
Colonies, in the course of some years the Negroes will be all 
Crepes, ,and neither wish for, nor know of any other country. 



13 



actuated by piety. We should be more assured oif 
it, if they encountered one hundredth part of the 
risk of property and life, to which they expose 
others. Some again, may have been impelled by the 
not uncommon ambition of doing something in the 
world; good, if they can, if they cannot, then mis- 
chief. In further excuse, it may be pleaded, that it 
is undeniable, though not very creditable to human 
nature, that even the burdens and horrors of war, 
find some little compensation in the interest taken 
in passing events. It is impossible not to observe 
the avidity with which accounts are read of cities 
sacked, of fleets destroyed, of battles lost and gain- 
ed, of the thousands captured, wounded, and killed* 
So, perhaps, it may give a zest to a party at a break- 
fast table, when the paper brings intelligence, that 
here, an obstinate conflict was maintained between 
the whites and blacks, and that many fell on both 
sides ; that there, the negroes were subdued, brought 
to trial, so many acquitted, and so many hanged. 
That in this place, a plantation was burnt to the 
ground; in that, entrance forced, and all the inmate^ 
massacred . 

But to be serious. I am not aware that it was 
ever attempted to advocate emancipation upon any 
defined practicable principle of justice, though there 
may be some, who in declaiming about abstract the-* 
ories, may flatter themselves that they emulate the 
stern virtue of old Romans, by crying out, '''-fiat 
justitia, mat caelum^'' in a cause, where they them- 
selves have nothing to lose. If conviction were want- 
ing; letany one read the petition from our meeting, and 
then say, whether uncompensated emancipation would 
not be as palpable an injustice, as atrocious a rol> 
bery, as ever was, or could be committed by a public 
body, or by an individual, 



14 



As little could it avail to argue for the liberation 
of Negroes as a measuie of policy. Indeed all that 
is attempted in this respect, with any thing like com- 
mon sense, is to endeavour to make out that it 
would be innocious. Our patriots tell us — in guard- 
ing your honour we would not lose sight of your 
interests. By no means would we materially injure 
the body politic, or impair its strength. We mean 
to go no further than perhaps just — the lopping off 
of one leg. But every true and wise friend of the 
country is aware, that its naval superiority and con- 
sequent security mainly depend upon its colonies. 
M — ^vhich God avert — our West Indian Islands ever 
were to become American, what comes of either ? 

The plan for emancipation then reduces itself to 
what may be due to humanity and benevolence. It 
remains then for us to consider whether such a 
measure would now, or soon be consistent with 
either ; or whether those ^^ ho would still persevere 
in urging it by the same means as hitherto, would 
not shew themselves utterly destitute of these quali- 
fications. Had real substantial good been the object, 
or had not some infatuation amounting to blindness 
prevailed, different indeed would have been the 
course. The attempts that have been made to con- 
vert, to educate, to moralize the blacks, to induce 
them to habits of connubial life, might have been 
still more liberally aided. A beginning, neither 
insignificant nor unsuccessful has been made. May 
1 be permitted here to venture a doubt, whether the 
christianizing of negroes would not be more success- 
fidly carried on by private or associated exertions, 
than by a national hierarchical establishment. It 
does not always follow, that where most is paid, most 
is done, nor would the mere erection of churches, or 



15 



reading through of the marriage seiTice, suffice to 
regulate their minds and manners. At all events. 
West India estates are now in a situation which does 
not allow an option of charging them with additional 
encumbrance of any kind whatever. But to return 
from this digression. If the professed friends thought 
they were not doing enough for the blacks, in using 
means to promote their instruction and conversion, 
they might have endeavoured to give fuller effect to 
the laws enacted in the Islands for their protection. 
Had they thought these laws inadequate, they might 
have amicably conferred with the Colonial Assem- 
blies, to whom, acting under the controul of His 
Majesty, or his Representative, the power of legis- 
lating for the Islands constitutionally and exclusively 
belongs, and who, traduced as they have been by some, 
have evinced not only willingness, but zeal for the 
attainment of the object, [^j 

But as to declamations in Parliament, violent ex- 
citement of already too violent passions out of it, 
kindling aflame here, which must re-act, and has 
re-acted there, to what can this tend ? For argument 
sake, let us suppose it possible that emancipation 
could proceed quietly ; a thing utterly improbable, 
to judge from the nature of things and from all past 



[c] If the Colonial Assemblies make a stand now, it is 
because they will not be dictated to by an outcry mischievously 
raised at home. More than this, they have always maintained 
that their internal legislation rests exclusively with their own 
Assemblies and the King or his Representative. They are 
aware, that however strong they may in right, in power they 
cannot contend with the British Parliament. Let those who 
now would urge Government to let force trample upon right, re- 
member that they would furnish a precedent, which may in some 
$hape recoil upon themselves. 



16 



experience. It has rarely hapi^ened in the former 
ages of the world, and least of all in the present 
one, that tliere has been a transition, even from a 
worse to a better state of society and ibi'ni of goveri!- 
ment, without concussion and bloodshed, either 
external, or domestic, or both. Yet where civiliza- 
tion and Christianity had taken deep root, when the 
storm had blown over, and tranquility has returned, 
they have again expanded, and at last the boon may 
have compensated for the price. How far such a 
result may be hoped for from Negro emancipation 
now, we will soon enquire into ; but in the mean 
time, let us, I say, for argument sake, suppose that 
the transition had gone off quietly, and was already 
effected. Deprived of their services, the Proprietors 
would cease to possess the means or to be subject to 
the obligation of providing for them. Now the 
Negro does not own one foot of the land he occupies, 
nor one plank of the house he lives in. He would 
be without land to cultivate, without habitation, 
without means of maintaining such live stock as he 
may possess. They depend for clothing wholly, for 
food partially, in some places principally, on sup- 
plies sent from Europe or North America, at the 
cost of the Planter. The funds as well as the 
inducement to furnish these would cease, neces- 
sarily nakedness would be superadded to famine, 
^^ hoever knows the Negroes, ridicules the idea of 
their Avorking for wages like Europeans. But sup- 
posing even they did— what becomes of orphan 
families, where are hospitals and skilful attendance, 
and medicine for the sick, where provision for the 
aged, or relief for the infirm. Perhaps these 
w retched outcasts, might not, as we read of elsewhere, 
be consigned to the water, or to the hollow tree. 



17 



More probably deprived of every comfort and sup- 
port, homeless, naked, starving, unrelieved, life 
might linger to afford them leisure to frame ejacula- 
tions of gratitude towards the benign liberators who 
had for this rescued them from servitude. Such 
would be the early fruits of the labours of our 
philanthropists, if indeed our predictions of more 
immediate and more appalling evils could remain 
unfulfilled, p] 

But if what may be inferred from all past experi- 
ence, if the desolations in Domingo, could leave a 
doubt on that score, surely what has occurred withie 
a few months must produce conviction. No sooner 
had the report circulated, not of any actual measure, 
but merely of emancipation being discussed, than it 
is magnified and misrepresented to the deluded 
blacks — scarcely had the dawn of a period that would 
loosen every tie, and disorganize society, broken in, 
than Sicilian vespers are arranging for the night. 
Freedom and massacre are to walk hand in hand. 
The dagger is to be pointed at the employer by the 
most trusted, indulged servant. A man's assassins 
are to be those of his own household. If the first 



[d] America, where liberty is more highly appreciated than 
in any other country, has not ventured to emancipate the Negroes 
in the Southern States. Yet there the danger would be as 
nothing, compared to the West Indies, considering the vast dis* 
proportion of the two classes of population in the latter, while 
in North America, the numbers of Blacks could never be 
formidable to the state, though they might be mischievous to 
individuals. It has been said, (I vouch not for the accuracy,) 
that the population of St. Domingo was, before the troubles 
connected with emancipation, about 600,000 persons, subse- 
quently, less than 200,000. A glorious feat for philanthropic 
agitators ; to have swept 400,000 persons from the fa<:e 6f the 
£arth ! 



18 



blush of the measure, the first rumor of a chance, 
led to machinations, and was on the point of pro- 
ducing results like these, what might have been 
expected from the consummation ? Most minds 
would turn with horror from contemplating such a 
spectacle ; we will hope that among the emancipators 
there are none, or very few, who would regard such 
an immolation of their countrymen a godly sacrifice. 

Let it not be said we are combating a chimera. 
That the idea of present emancipation has been 
abandoned. A proposal such as that of freeing 
children born after the present time would, if acted 
upon, scarcely even afford a temporary suspension. 
It would in addition to every other calamity, arm 
the rising generation against the present one. Or 
in any other manner, to think of proceeding half- 
way, and then stopping short, would be as vain as 
to bid the tide of the ocean to stand still. 

Here, Sir, I should have concluded, had it not 
been that in adding a word concerning myself, I 
may be speaking the language of hundreds, who 
may be similarly situated, only more important 
members of society. As far as my confined sphere 
and my limited abilities have permitted, I have 
always been, and shall be, an advocate for civil 
liberty. I wish slavery had never existed on the 
earth, and most of all that it had never been im- 
ported into the West Indies. As it has, the remedy 
IS difficult, and must be the work of time. In 
being connected with a colony where it exists, I 
have this consolation, that I have done nothing to 
aggravate, but all the little that has been in my 

Fower to mitigate it. My coui^e is so far run, that 
may begin to fed more independent of passing 



19 



events and future prospects, as individually concerned . 
But surely it is the desire and duty of every father 
of a family to endeavour if possible, to protect those 
he leaves behind, from those privations and humili- 
ations which, consequent on reduced circumstances, 
would be more keenly felt by those, born to and 
educated for that station of life, which, till of late 
they had grounded expectations to be enabled to 
maintain. If persons knew what they were about in 
impoverishing a whole class in respectable society, 
perhaps the collective force of individual cases united, 
might be some check, and induce them to pause. 
I sincerely hope that those who have hitherto been 
zealously, perhaps unthinkingly, urging emancipa- 
tion, may, if inattentive to argument, yet convinced 
by the evidence of events, retrace their steps. But, 
if heedless and reckless of consequences they are 
determined to persevere in the course begun, and if, 
unfortunately for their own reputation, unfortunately 
for thousands of our countrymen, but most of all 
unfortunately for the Negroes, they should succeed, 
then, let time shew whether they are not, if not in- 
tentionally, yet virtually, accessaries before the fact 
to spoliation, to murder, and to nameless crimes of 
yet darker die than those which have already too 
deeply stained the annals of the age in which we 
live. 

I have the honor to be, most respectfully. 

Sir, 

Your obedient Servant, 

JOHN FOSTER. 

Wtbbj Primer, Biii(in\ &c. bf^^d. 



