STATE OF NEW YORK. 



IN SUPREME COURT 



SETH W. BENEDICT, 

ads. 

DANIEL D. NASH. 



HORACE DRESSER, 

Atty. for Defendant. 

WILLIAM H. BELL 

Atty. for Plaintiff. 



STATE OF NEW ¥OEK. 



IN SUPREME COURT. 



SETH W. BENEDICT, 

ads. 

DANIEL D. NASH. 



HORACE DRESSER, 

Atty. for Defendant. 

WILLIAM H. BELL 

Atty. for Plaintiff. 



<e$. GZ7H.57 - 



RECORD AND BILL OF EXCEPTIONS. 



Pleas before the Justices of the Supreme Court 
of Judicature of the people of the State of 
New York, at the Academy, in the city of 
Utica, of the term of July, in the year of our 
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and thirty 



nine 



Witness, Samuel Nelson, Esq., Chief Jus- 
tice. 

Hallett, Clerk. 

State of New York, ss : — The people of the 
State of New York sent t© the Judges of the 
Court of Common Pleas, held in and for the 
city and county of New York, their writ of Cer- 
tiorari, close in these words, to wit : The peo- 
ple of the State of New York, to the Judges of 
our Court of Common Pleas, in and for our 
county of New York, Greeting : We being will- 
ing, for certain causes, to be certified of a cer- 
tain plaint in our Court of Common Pleas for 
our said County, against Seth W. Benedict, at 
the suit of Daniel D. Nash, of a plea of trespass 
on the case — do command you, that without de- 
lay, the plaint aforesaid, with all things touch- 
ing the same, as fully and entirely as it remains 
before you, by whatsoever names the said Seth 
W. Benedict and Daniel D. Nash may be call- 



[4] 

ed in the same, you certify to our Justices of 
our Supreme Court of Judicature, at the Acade- 
my, in the City of Utica, on the first Monday of 
July next, together with this writ, that we may 
further cause to be done thereupon, what of 
right shall be fit to be done, itness, Samuel 
Nelson, Esq., our Chief Justice, at the City 
Hall, in the city of New York, this first Mon- 
day of May, in the year of our Lord one thou- 
sand eight hundred and thirty nine. 

Hallett, Paige, Savage and Sutherland, 

Clerks. 
H. Dresser, Attorney. 

At which day and place, in the return of the 
said writ mentioned, before the Justices afore- 
said, comes the said Seth W. Benedict, by 
Horace Dresser, his Attorney, and the said 
Judges of the said Court of Common Pleas of 
the city and county of New York, in the said 
writ mentioned, send hither their return to the 
said writ in the words and figures following, 
to wit : 

The answer of the Judges of the Court of 
Common Pleas of the city and county of New 
York within mentioned, to the within writ of 
Certiorari. 

The execution of the within writ appears by 
the schedule thereto annexed. 

(By the Court.) Joseph Hoxie, Clerk. 

(L. S.) 

We, the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas, 
in and for the city and county of New York, do, 
under the seal of our said Court, certify unto 



[5] 

the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature 
of the people of the State of New York, the 
plaint whereof mention is made in the writ 
hereto annexed, together with all things touch- 
ing the same, as fully and amply as the same 
are now remaining before us, as by the said an* 
nexed writ we are commanded. 

(By the Court.) Joseph Hoxie, Clerk, 
(L. S.) 

City and County of New York, ss, 

Daniel D. Nash, plaintiff in this suit by William 
H. Bell, his Attorney, complains of Seth W. 
Benedict, defendent in the same, in custody, 
and of a plea of trespass on the case ; 

For that, whereas, the said plaintiffis a good, 
true, honest, just, and faithful citizen of this 
State, and as such has always behaved and con- 
ducted himself, and until the committing of the 
several grievances by the said defendant as 
hereinafter mentioned, was always reputed, es- 
teemed and accepted by and amongst all his 
neighbors and other good and worthy citizens 
of this State to whom he was known to be a 
person of good name, fame and credit, to wit, 
at the city of New York aforesaid. And where- 
as, also the said plantiff hath not been guilty, or 
until the time of the committing of the said 
several grievances by the said defendant as 
hereinafter mentioned, been suspected to have 
been guilty of kidnapping or any other such 
crime. By means of which said premises, he, 
the said plaintiff, before the committing of trie 
said several grievances by the said defendant 



[6] 

as hereinafter mentioned, had deservedly ob- 
tained the good opinion and credit of all his 
neighbors and other good and worthy citizens 
of this State, to whom he was in anywise 
known, to wit, at the city of New York afore- 
said. Yet the said defendant well knowing 
the premises but greatly envying the happy 
state and condition of the said plaintiff, and 
contriving, and maliciously, and wickedly in- 
tending to injure the said plaintiff in his good 
name, fame and credit, and to bring him into 
public scandal, infamy and disgrace, with and 
among all his neighbors and other good and 
worthy citizens of this State, and to cause it to 
be suspected and believed by those neighbors 
and citizens that the said plaintiff had been 
guilty of kidnapping, and to subject him to the 
pains and penalties by the laws of this State, 
made and provided against and inflicted upon 
persons guilty thereof, and to vex and harrass, 
oppress and impoverish, and wholly ruin him, 
the said plaintiff heretofore, to wit, on the first 
day of December, in the year of our Lord, one 
thousand eight hundred and thirthy eight, at 
New York, to wit, at the city and county of New 
York aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and mali- 
ciously did compose and. publish, and cause to 
be composed and published, of and concerning 
the said plaintiff in a printed book or pamphlet 
called or entitled " The American Anti-Slave- 
ry Almanac, for 1839," the false, scandalous, 
malicious, defamatory and libellous matter, ac- 
companied with a pictorial representation or il- 
lustration thereof in the words and figures fol- 
lowing, that is to say, " A Northern freeman en- 



[7] 

slaved by Northern hands, Nov. 20th, 1836, Sun- 
day," (meaning thereby then and there, a state- 
ment of the feloniously kidnapping of a free 
citizen of one of the northern States by the 
plaintiff and other citizens of said State, on Sun- 
day, the twentieth day of November, in the year 
of our Lord One thousand eight hundred and 
thirty six, and by him sold into slavery in ano- 
ther State.) " Peter John Lee, a free colored 
man of Westchester Co., N. Y," (meaning there- 
by that a negro by the name of Peter John Lee 
was one of the free and enlightened citizens of 
Westchester County, in this State, and a resi- 
dent therein,) " was kidnapped by Tobias Bou- 
dinot, E. R. Waddy, John Lyon, and Daniel D. 
Nash, of New York City," (meaning thereby 
that the said Peter John Lee, a free citizen of 
this State, had been kidnapped by the said plain- 
tiff and others, in violation of the laws of this 
State,) ki and hurried away from his wife and 
children into slavery," (meaning thereby that 
the said Peter John I^ee, a free citizen of this 
State, was forcibly abducted by the said plaintiff 
and torn from the tender ties of connubial bliss, 
parental joys and domestic comforts, and all the 
refinements and endearments of civilized socie- 
ty and sold into slavery beyond the limits of 
this State, in violation of the Constitution and 
laws of this State.) " One went up to shake 
hands with him, while the others were ready to 
use the gag and chain," (meaning thereby that 
the said plaintiff made use of stratagem to de- 
coy, and assisted to gag and chain a free citizen 
of this State for the purpose of kidnapping him.) 
''This is not a rare case," (meaning thereby 



[8] 

that the said plaintiff, with the felonious intent 
aforesaid, had kidnapped other free citizens of 
this State besides the said Peter John Lee.) — 
" Many northern freemen have been enslaved 
in some instances under color of law," (mean- 
ing thereby that although the said plaintiff had 
forcibly taken, abducted, inveigled or kidnapped 
many others of the free citizens of this State 
and sold them into slavery, into some other State 
place or country, under a colorable authority, 
yet he had no such authority or color of authori- 
ty for taking, inveigling, or kidnapping and sell- 
ing into slavery into another State the said Peter 
John Lee as aforesaid,) and had therefore been 
guilty of the felonious offence of kidnapping in 
divers other instances, to wit, at the city of 
New York aforesaid. 

And the said plaintiff further saith that the 
said defendant further contriving and intend- 
ing as aforesaid afterwards, to wit, on the first 
day of December, in the year of our Lord one 
thousand eight hundred and thirty eight, and 
divers other days, at the city of New York 
aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, maliciously, wrong- 
fully and unjustly did publish and procure to be 
published, a certain other false, scandalous, ma- 
licious and defamatory libel of and concerning 
the said plaintiff as follows, that is to say, — 
" Peter John Lee, a free colored man of West- 
chester County, New York, was kidnapped by 
Daniel D. Nash of New York City, and hurried 
away from his wife and children into slavery," 
(meaning thereby then and there that the said 
plaintiff had been guilty of feloniously and for- 
cibly taking or kidnapping the said Peter John 



[9] 

Lee, a free citizen of the State of New York and 
selling him into slavery into another State, and 
by reason thereof had thereby then and there 
subjected himself to the pains and penalties 
made and provided against and inflicted upon 
persons guilty thereof by the Revised Statutes 
of this State, to wit, at the city of New York 
aforesaid. 

And the said plaintiff further says that the 
said defendant further contriving and intending 
as aforesaid afterwards, to wit, on the first day 
of December, in the year of our Lord one thou- 
sand eight hundred and thirty eight, and divers 
other days, to wit, at the city of New York afore- 
said, did falsely, maliciously, wrongfully and 
unjustly publish and cause and procure to be 
published, a certain other false, scandalous, ma- 
licious and defamatory libel of and concerning 
the said plaintiff, containing among other things 
certain other false, scandalous, malicious de- 
famatory and libellous matters of and concern- 
ing the, said plaintiff as follows, that is to say, 
" Peter John Lee, a freeman of color of West- 
chester Co., New York, was kidnapped by To- 
bias Boudinot, E. R. Waddy, John Lyon, and 
Daniel D. Nash of New York City, and hurried 
away from his wife and children into slavery," 
(meaning thereby then and there that the said 
plaintiff had assisted, aided and abetted or been 
accessary to the inveigling or kidnapping of the 
said Peter John Lee, a free citizen and resident 
of the State of New York, and entitled to all the 
liberties, immunities and franchises thereof, and 
who had thenceforward been deprived of the 
same, and that the said plaintiff had thereby 



[10] 

then and there been guilty of a crime punisha- 
ble by the laws of this State with an ignomini- 
ous punishment. By means of the committing 
of which said several grievances by the said de- 
dant as aforesaid, he the said plaintiff, hath 
been and is greatly injured in his good name, 
fame and credit, and brought into public scan- 
dal, infamy and disgrace, with and amongst all 
his neighbors and other good and worthy citi- 
zens to whom the innocency and integrity of the 
said plaintiff were unknown, have no occasion 
of the committing of the said grievances by the 
said defendant as aforesaid, from thence hither- 
to suspected and believed, and still do suspect 
and believe the said plaintiff to have been and 
to be a person guilty of the crime of kidnapping, 
and have by reason of the committing of the 
said grievances of the said defendant as afore- 
said, from thence hitherto wholly refused and 
still do refuse to have any transaction, acquaint- 
ance or discourse with him, the said plaintiff, 
as they were before used and accustomed to 
have and otherwise would have had. And that 
the said plaintiff hath been and is by means of 
the premises otherwise greatly injured, to wit, 
at the city of New York aforesaid. To the 
damage of the said plaintiff of ten thousand 
dollars, and thereof he brings suit, &c. 

And the said defendant, by Horace Dresser, 
his Attorney, comes and defends the wrong and 
injury, when, &c, and says, that he is not guilty 
of the said supposed grievances above laid to 
his charge, or any or either of them or any part 
thereof, in manner and form as the said plain^ 
tiff hath above thereof complained against him, 



[11] 

And of this he, the said defendant, puts himself 
upon the country, and the said plaintiff likewise. 
And thereupon issue was joined between the 
said Daniel D. Nash and the said Seth W. 
Benedict, and the same is Ordered by the said 
Supreme Court, to be tried at the Circuit Court 
appointed to be held at the City Hall, in the 
city of New York, in and for the said city and 
county of New York, on the third Monday of 
September next : and because the aforesaid is- 
sue so as above joined in this cause, between 
the parties aforesaid, was not tried at the said 
Circuit Court, held at the time and place last 
aforesaid, in and for the said city and county of 
New York ; therefore the process between the 
parties aforesaid is continued until the Circuit 
Court, appointed to be held at the City Hall, in 
the city of New York, in and for the said city 
and county, on the third Monday of March, in 
the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hun- 
dred and forty one : Afterwards, to wit, at the 
day and place last aforesaid, at a Circuit Court, 
held in and for the said city and county, before 
the Honorable Philo Gridley, Circuit Judge, 
holding the First Circuit, the aforesaid issue 
so joined between the said parties as aforesaid, 
came on to be tried by a jury of the city and 
county of New York, for that purpose duly im- 
panneled, that is to say, — A. H. Clark, J. R. 
Field, Daniel Harris, Charles Crane, George Doug- 
lass, William Shannon, James Cowles, John P. 
Ware, Benjamin Blackledge, Hanford Lockford 
E. Van Sice, and David Preston, good and law- 
ful'men of the said city and county: at which day 
came there, as well the said Daniel D. Nash, by 



tiftj 

William H. Bell, his Attorney, as the said Setli 
W. Benedict, by Horace Dresser, his Attorney ; 
and the jurors of the jury aforesaid, impannel- 
ed to try the said issue, being called, also came, 
and were then and there in due manner chosen 
and sworn to iry the same issue ; and upon the 
trial of that issue, the counsel learned in the 
law for the said Daniel D. Nash, to maintain 
and prove the said issue on his part, called and 
had sworn as a witness, 

Timothy R. McDonough, who testified that 
in the fore part of December 1838, he bought of 
the defendant, The Anti-Slavery Almanac for 
1839, at his office in Nassau street, New York ; 
that the defendant said he was the publisher of 
the Almanac : the witness produced the Alma- 
nac he received from the defendant, and said it 
was similar to that for which the action was 
brought. Cross examined : The witness stated 
that he marked the book he received from the 
defendant, and has kept it since in his posses^ 
sion ; — that he went to defendants store to find 
out who was the publisher, at the request of the 
plaintiff. 

The Plaintiff also called and had sworn as 
a witness on his part, 

William McDonough, who testified that in tne 
years 1837,8 and 9, he was a deputy of the 
Sheriff: that he knew the defendant — witness 
called on him in Nassau street in New York, 
and bought of him a pamphlet called the Anti- 
Slavery Almanac for 1839. Defendant after- 
wards said it was published in Boston and he 
was only an agent. 

The Plaintiff's counsel further, to maintain 
and prove the said issue on his part, produced 



£13] 

and read in evidence from page 19 of the said 
Almanac, as identified by the said witness 
Timothy R. McDonough, as follows : 

A NORTHERN FREEMAN ENSLAVED BY NORTHERN 
HANDS. 

Nov. 20, 1836, (Sunday,) Peter John Lee, a 
free colored man of Westchester Co., N. Y., 
was kidnapped by Tobias Botidinot, E. R. 
Waddy, John Lyon, and Daniel D. Nash, of N. 
Y. city, and hurried away from his wife and 
children into slavery. One went up to shake 
hands with him, while the others were ready to 
use the gag and chain. See Emancipator, 
March 16, and May 4, 1837. This is not a rare 
case. Many northern freemen have been en- 
slaved, in some cases under color of law. 
October 26, 1836, a man named Frank, who 
was born in Pa., and lived free in Ohio, was 
hurried into slavery by an Ohio Justice of the 
Peace. When offered for sale in Louisiana, he 
so clearly stated the facts that a slaveholding 
court declared him free — thus giving a wither- 
ing rebuke to northern servility. 

The counsel for the plaintiff further to main- 
tain and prove the said issue on his part, pro- 
duced and read in evidence the affidavits of 
William Davis and G. H. Roberts, which had 
been stipulated to be read de bene esse on the 
trial of the cause : which said affidavits are in 
the words and figures following, to wit: 

Supreme Court. 



Daniel D. Nash, vs. Seth W. Benedict. 
City and County of New York, ss* 

William Davis, of the village of St. Johnville, 

2 



[14] 

in the County of Montgomery, being duly sworn 
doth depose and say, that sometime last spring, 
in the month of April or May, he saw at a house, 
thinks it was in Burlington County, in the State 
of New Jersey, a copy of the American Anti- 
Slavery Almanac, does not recollect the date 
of the same, remembers the plates or cuts in 
the one he saw, and that one was similar to the 
plate at page 19 of the American Anti-Slavery 
Almanac for 1839 ; recollects a plate in said 
book or Almanac under which was printed, " A 
Northern freeman enslaved by Northern hands." — 
Deponent has never seen the defendant, never 
saw the plaintiff until last week. Does not know 
who wrote, printed or published the book he saw 
in New Jersey. Deponent thinks he saw the 
book above mentioned at the house of Mr. John 
Cox. And further this deponent saith not. 

WILLIAM DAVIS. 
Sworn before me, this 21st day of Nov. 1839. 
W. M. Mitchell, Commissioner of Deeds. 

Supreme Court. 



Daniel D. Nash, vs. Seth W. Benedict. 

City and County of New York, ss. 

George H. Roberts, of the city of Rochester, 
in the County of Monroe, being duly sworn doth 
depose and say, that he is not acquainted with 
either plaintiff or defendant in this suit ; that on 
the first of January, 1839, copies of the Ameri- 
can Anti-Slavery Almanac for 1839, were gratui- 
tously distributed at the store of George A. 
Avery & Co., in the city of Rochester, as pres- 



[15] 

ents to children and otherwise, recollects the 
plate or cut at page 19 of said Almanac, and the 
article there under printed entitled, " A North- 
ern freeman enslaved by Northern hands." 

Deponent has also seen one copy of said Al- 
manac at the store of E. N. Benedict, in the vil- 
lage of Holly, in the County of Orleans. And 
deponent further says, that the copies of such 
Almanac seen as above mentioned, were copies 
similar to the one to which is attached an affi- 
davit of this deponent, dated 29th April, 1839, 
and sworn to before Henry Nicoll, Commissioner 
of Deeds, and which copies were published for 
the American Anti-Slavery Society," by S. W. 
Benedict, 143 Nassau street, as appears on the 
outside of said copies. 

And this deponent further says, that such 
copies distributed in Rochester as presents, 
were distributed by the direction of the said 
Avery or by persons in his employ. And he 
further says, that he has no knowledge of the 
publication of said Almanac by the defendant, 
except that his name appears as publisher on 
the covers of the same, and the first page there- 
of. 

And this deponent further says, that he does 
not know whether the copies seen by him at 
Rochester and Holly as aforesaid, were of the 
edition published as appears on the covers of 
such books by S. W. Benedict, 143 Nassau st. 
New York, or the edition which has upon its 
cover, as published: " New York, S. W. Bene- 
dict ; Boston, Isaac Knapp." And further says, 
that he does not know that S. W. Benedict, 
wrote, printed or published the said Almanacs, 



[16] 

except from the fact that his name appears orr 
the same as publisher. 

GEORGE H. ROBERTS, 
Sworn before me, this 21st day of Nov., 183£. 
Isaac O. Barker, Com. of Deeds. 

The Plaintiff then rested his case : whereup- 
on the counsel for the defendant did then and 
there insist before the said Circuit Judge, that 
the said several matters so produced and given 
in evidence on the part of the said plaintiff, as 
aforesaid, were insufficient and ought not to 
be admitted and allowed as decisive evidence 
to go to the Jury and entitle the said plaintiff to 
a verdict ; and, therefore, that said plaintiff 
should be non-suited on the ground, 

1. That there was a variance between the 
libel as proved, and that set forth in the declar- 
ation — the declaration having, in every count, 
set forth a libel charging the plaintiff with a 
felonious violation of the Revised Statutes 
against kidnapping, while the one proved, only 
amounted to a charge af misdemeanor, or kid- 
napping at common law : 

2. That the statute had been referred to in 
reference to the crime of kidnapping, but had 
not been properly set forth, as it was doubtful 
whether the plaintiff was charged with kidnap- 
ping, or as an accessary after the fact : 

3. That the matter alleged to be libelous, was 
not so per se, and that unless the plaintiff had 
declared for and could show some special dam- 
age, he must be non-suited : . 

4. That every count in the declaration was 
founded on the supposed charge in the alleged 



libel, of kidnapping with the intent and for the 
purposes mentioned in Part IV. Chap. I. Title 
III. Art. II. Sec. XXVIII. Vol. I. of the Re- 
vised Statutes — whereas the words in the al 
leged libel, import no such intent with such pur* 
poses. 

And the said Circuit Judge did also then and 
there declare .and deliver his opinion to the 
said counsel for the said defendant, that the 
said plaintiff had produced evidence sufficient 
for the cause to go to the Jury : to which said 
opinion of the said Circuit Judge, the said 
counsel for the said defendant, did then and 
there, on the behalf of the said defendant, ex- 
cept. 

The counsel for the said defendant t© main* 
tain and prove the said issue on his part, pro- 
duced and offered to read in evidence, for the 
purpose of shewing that the said defendant had 
probable cause for believing the publication to 
be true at the time it was made, in order to re- 
but the inference of actual malice, and thus 
mitigate the damages — the articles in the 
Emancipator of March 16, 1837, referred to in 
thematter charged as libelous, consisting of the 
correspondence of Hon. William Jay and Cor- 
nelius W. Lawrence, Ex-Mayor of New York, 
with the Editorial relating to said correspond- 
ence : which said articles are in the words and 
figures following, to wit : 

"KIDNAPPING BY AUTHORITY. 
We commend the following correspondence, 
which we take from the Westchester Herald, 
to the careful attention of freemen. How lone: 

2* S 



m 

will the people bear such trifling with their If* 
berty and rights ? 

ABDUCTION OF PETER LEE. 

To the Editor of the Westchester Herald : 

Sir, — For the information of the public and 
especially of those citizens by whose direction 
I have acted, I beg the favor of you to give the 
enclosed correspondence a place in your pa- 
per. It will be perceived from the Mayor's let- 
ters, that the name of the city marshal engaged 
in the late transaction, was Nash and not 
Tompkins, as stated in the affidavits. It seems 
that the colored man was seized and sent to the 
South, under a three years old warrant, without 
the interposition of a magistrate, and without 
legal proof of his identity. 

Yours, respectfully, 
Bedford, Jan. 21, 1837. William Jay. 



To the Hon. C. W. Lawrence, Mayor of the 

City of New York : 

Bedford, Westchester County, ) 
Jan. 4th, 1837. I 

Sir, — At a meeting of the citizens of this 
county, held in the Unionville church, in the 
town of Mount Pleasant, on the 20th ultimo? 
pursuant to public notice, the following resolu- 
tions were unanimously adopted, viz. 

" Resolved, That the conduct of certain New 
York police officers in seizing a colored man 
in this county, on the 20th November last, and 
in hastily shipping him to the South, as appears- 



[19] 

by the affidavits read to this meeting, Wa3 an 
outrage on decency and humanity. 

11 Resolved, That the said affidavits be for- 
warded by the chairman, to the Mayor of the 
city of New York, who is hereby respectfully 
requested to take measures for the removal of 
the officers who have so shamefully abused 
their power." 

As chairman of the above mentioned meeting, 
I have now, sir, the honor, in obedience to the 
foregoing resolutions, to forward herewith the 
affidavits to which they refer. The great im- 
portance of the subject will I trust furnish an 
apology for the liberty I take, in troubling you 
with some remarks in relation to it. 

The peace and good order of every community 
must necessarily depend in no small degree on 
the opinion, generally entertained of the in- 
tegrity of those who are connected with the ad- 
ministration of justice. When legal protection 
is denied or mistrusted, individuals will ever be 
tempted to resort to violence in self-defence, 
and the tendency of transactions like the one 
to which the resolutions refer, is certainly un- 
favorable to the tranquillity. Two ef the depo- 
nents, you will observe, after conversing with 
one of the officers implicated, declare their be- 
lief that the colored man was seized and sent 
to sea without any legal authority whatever. 
Indeed, the circumstances connected with the 
transaction, have induced a very general opinion 
throughout the country, that it was a most de- 
testable outrage. One of the officers, (Lyon,) 
when charged with having stolen a negro, in- 
stead of denying that such a theft had been 



[20] 

committed, instead of explaining by what au- 
thority and for what cause the negro had been 
seized and sent away, excused himself by 
averring that he only drove the wagon, and 
publicly avowed that he would do so again for 
any body who would pay him. 

Admitting that the arrest was legal, the un- 
necessary violence with which it was made, 
the indecent haste with which the prisoner was 
sent out of the State, and the profane and un- 
feeling language used by his captors in regard 
to him, are well calculated to excite deep dis- 
gust. It would be a reflection on the people of 
Westchester, to suppose that they could see 
without indignation a free man, (as Lee in sup- 
posed to have been,) seized by officers from a 
foreign county on the evening of the Sabbath, 
handcuffed, and (as is said) gagged, forced into 
a carriage, hurried to New York, and the very 
next day shipped for the South ; and all this 
without application to any magistrate, or the 
exhibition of any legal authority. Permit me 
to remark, that it betrays a silly and wanton 
contempt of public opinion to perform legal 
acts in such a manner as justly to excite doubts 
of their lawfulness. If the officers acted un- 
der a warrant, they were inexcusable, under 
the peculiar circumstances of the case, in not 
shewing it to some of our citizens, and thus 
preventing those painful suspicions which now 
rest on an act performed under color of au- 
thority. These men, if innocent, owed it to 
themselves, to the character of their city, and 
to the feelings of the people of this county, 
to let it be known that they were discharging 



[21] 

their duty as officers of justice, and that they 
were not the hired tools of a vile kidnapper. 

We are not ignorant that a newspaper in your 
city has stated, that they had a warrant from 
the governor issued three years since, for the ap- 
prehension of seventeen colored persons. If this 
statement be true, it affords cause for deep re- 
gret and alarm. Such a warrant, at a time 
when an able bodied man of any complexion is 
worth from $1,000 to $1,500 in the slave mar- 
ket, would in the hands of an unprincipled offi- 
cer, if allowed as in the recent case to seize 
and ship without the interference of a magis- 
trate, prove a source of iniquitous wealth to 
himself, and of most tremendous calamity to 
the weak and unprotected. Any poor friendless 
unknown person, might, with impunity in such 
case, be publicly seized and handcuffed, and 
sent into interminable bondage. 

You will not, sir, wonder at this unqualified 
assertion, when you recollect that slavery is 
not confined to one complexion, and that there 
is not a member of the Common Council of 
your city, who, if kidnapped, would be unsale- 
able on account of the whiteness of his skin. 
It is only about two years since that a citizen of 
Maryland arrested in Philadelphia a young girl 
as his fugitive slave. Fortunately, in that case, 
a legal investigation ensued, when it appeared 
by the most conclusive and abundant testimony, 
that the alleged slave (Mary Gilmore,) was the 
daughter of poor irish parents ; that her father 
had absconded while she was an infant, and 
that her mother died soon after in the Philadel- 
phia hospital? Mr. Calhoun, the late Vice 



[22] 

President, has related the case of a man, 
" placed on the stand for sale as a slave, whose 
appearance in all respects, gave him a better 
claim to the character of a white man, than 
most persons so acknowledged could show." — 
(Niles* Register for October, 25, 1834.) In Mis- 
souri, a boy was adjudged a slave, although the 
physicians testified that all the peculiarities of 
the negro were obliterated, or in other words, 
that he was a white buy. Is it not then, sir, 
cause for alarm to white men as well as black, 
if a police officer may seize whom he pleases, 
and send him, instanter, to the slave market, 
and then offer in justification a three year old 
warrant, crowded with names ? If persons are 
liable to be taken in the way that Lee was, who 
but the officer himself shall determine on the 
identity of the victims, or know when the 
number of arrests, corresponds with that of the 
names included in the warrant ? If a warrant 
like the alleged one may be issued, surely it is 
not to continue in force forever, nor can it be 
endured in a free country, that an officer by 
virtue of it, shall be permitted to send to sea 
any citizen, at the mere signal of a slave-dealer. 
Some mode must be devised by which the iden- 
tity of the party arrested shall be established 
by legal proof before he can be torn from his 
wife and children, and manacled for life. 

The request made to you, sir, by the meeting, 
is, of course, founded on the presumed accuracy 
of the statements made in the affidavits. Those 
statements, together with the request, will, I 
trust, sir, induce you as the first magistrate of 
the metropolis, to institute an inquiry into the 



[23] 

conduct of your subordinates while in this 
county. Should such an inquiry show the le- 
gality of the late arrest, and that the identity of 
Lee was established according to law, the pub- 
lic will rejoice to learn that their present sus- 
picions are unfounded ; and they will indulge 
the hope that the officers implicated, will derive 
some salutary hints on the mode of executing 
warrants, from the excitement caused by their 
rashness. The inquiry may also lead the legis- 
lature to consider what salutary provisions are 
required to prevent warrants of this description 
from being made subservient to a horrible cu- 
pidity. If, however, it should unhappily be 
found that men entrusted with power for the 
protection of the citizen, have exercised that 
power to rob him of his liberty and to consign 
him to hopeless slavery, you, sir, I am confi- 
dent, will cheerfully aid in depriving them of 
the means of repeating the enormity. 
I have the honor to be, sir, 

Your very obed't servant, 

William Jay* 



New York, Jan. 9, 1837. 
Sir, — I have received your communication, 
under date of the 4th instant, with the affidavits, 
alleging that certain police officers from this 
city seized a colored man in the county of 
Westchester, &c. One of the persons charged 
with the offence, is said to be " John Lyon, of 
this city, marshal." But no such person has a 
warrant as a marshal or officer. I have been 
informed this morning that he is supposed to be 



[24] 

Recently from your county, is not much known 
here, and never held any office in this city. 
Tobias Boudinot is another of the persons 
charged with aiding and abetting in the outrage. 
He is a constable of the third ward, elected by 
the people of that ward, and I have no power 
to remove him. Daniel D. Nash is a marshal, 
and holds a warrant from me. He is now ab- 
sent on a mission from the sheriff of this coun- 
ty to Georgia. On his return to the city, I will 
enquire of him as to the part he took in the 
transaction to which you have alluded.* 

In conclusion, I cannot but express my sur- 
prise that these papers have been sent to me. 
If these men have been guilty of the charges 
made against them, they are liable to severe 
punishment, and should be made to answer for 
their conduct in a court of justice. 
Respectfully, your obed't servant, 

C. W. Lawrence. 
To the Hon'ble William Jay : 



Mayor's Office, New York, } 
Jan. 10, 1837. $ 

Sir, — Since writing to you under date of the 
9th instant, I have seen Mr. Tobias Boudinot, 
constable of the third ward, and he shewed me 
a paper from the governor of this State, dated 

* Nash has returned. We shall see whether the Mayor 
makes inquiry, and if so, what is the result 1 We shall be 
glad to know whether a kidnapper will be retained in office ? 
Ed. Eman." 



[25] 

12th October, 1833, giving authority to the 
" sheriffs, constables and other peace officers 
of the several counties of this state to arrest 
and deliver over the several persons named 
therein to Enward R. Waddy. 

Mr. Tobias Boudinot informs me that the 
person arrested in your county, is named in the 
paper before alluded to, as Henry, and that he 
acknowledged before witnesses that his name 
was Henry. 

As stated in my letter of yesterday, T have 
no power over Mr. B. You are so well ac- 
quainted with the laws, that you must be com* 
petent to determine whether his conduct was 
authorized by law. It seems that Lyon and 
Nash went with Boudinot, and acted as his 
assistants, and the only authority Boudinot 
claims to have had, was the paper from the 
governor. 

I have the honor to be, respectfully. 

Your obed't servant, 

C. W. Lawrence. 

Hon'ble William Jay. 



"KIDNAPPING BY AUTHORITY. 

We wish to call attention particularly to the 
correspondence, under this caption, in another 
column. " The roving commission," as it is 
very appropriately termed, which Boudinot 
holds, at the hands of Governor Marcy, reveals 
a state of things most alarming and most atroci- 
ous. There is no longer any doubt that he 



[26] 

holds such commission, signed, sealed, and 
delivered by William L. Marcy, Governor of 
the State of New York. Governor Marcy has 
himself admitted, within two weeks, to a re- 
spectable citizen of this city, that he gave such 
a warrant to Boudinot. The only exception he 
made to the statement, was, that instead of 
seventeen, it only authorized him to take away 
five or seven persons therein named. The 
number, however, whether five or fifty, is of no 
consequence. Five persons are named as fugi- 
tives from service or labor, and the warrant 
authorizes Boudinot, or any other man at his 
direction, to seize and take off, without the 
form or pretence of a trial, any person on whom 
he is pleased to lay his hand. The warrant 
lays no obligation on him, or his agent, when he 
arrests a person, to bring him before a competent 
tribunal, and there, by evidence, prove that he is 
one of the persons therein named. Nothing of 
of the kind. The whole matter is in his hands ; 
and the Governor's warrant to arrest and take 
off one Harry, is in fact a warrant to arrest and 
take off a hundred or a thousand Harrys, if he 
please. Nay, every colored man he "meets he 
may call him Harry, and forthwith, by virtue of 
the warrant, hurry him off to interminable and 
hopeless bondage. And where is the colored 
man's redress ? He has none. Let but the 
opportunity come, and that warrant in the hands 
of the unprincipled wretch who holds it, or his 
agent, is the death-warrant of the liberty of 
every colored man in the city and State of New 
York. Not a man is safe, by night or by day. 
The sorry remnant of protection left him by 



[27J 

the laws and the constitution, is struck down at 
one blow. One dash of the gubernatorial pen 
has made it a dead letter — and, free-born though 
he be, he walks the streets of his native city, 
or treads the soil of his native State, at his 
peril. The warrant — waiting only a fitting 
occasion for its execution — the death-warrant 
of his liberty, is out against him. Untried, un- 
convicted, unheard, with sign and seal of Wm. 
L. Marcy, it is out against him. Has it then 
come to this 1 Shall the Chief Magistrate of 
this State, at his pleasure, strike the liberty of 
the people dead — aye, the humblest one of the 
people — with impunity ? Why, to what have 
we come ? Is the heel of despotism on our 
necks already ?" 

But to the reading of the same in evidence, 
the said counsel for the said Plaintiff then and 
there objected : but the said Circuit Judge 
decided that if said articles referred to 
in the libel, and offered in evidence were in 
explanation of, and necessary to give a 
construction to the libel, he would allow 
the same to be read ; the counsel for the 
said defendant then read so much from the 
Emancipator of March 16, as the letter of Hon. 
William Jay, when the counsel for the said 
plaintiff again objected to the further reading in 
evidence of the said articles in the Emancipa- 
tor : whereupon the said Circuit Judge sus- 
tained the objection of the said Plaintiff's 
counsel, and declared and delivered his opinion, 
and decided that the same should be rejected 
upon the trial of the aforesaid issue, as they did 
not explain the libel: to which said opinion 



[28] 

and decision of the said Circuit Judge, the said 
counsel for the said defendant did then and 
there, on the behalf the said defendant, except. 
The counsel for the said defendant further to 
maintain and prove the said issue on his part, 
produced and offered to read in evidence, for the 
purpose of showing that the said defendant had 
probable cause for believing the publication to be 
true at the time it was ma<Je, in order to rebut the 
inference of actual malice, and thus mitigate the 
damages — an article in the Emancipator of 
May 4, 1837, referred to in the matter charged 
as libelous and set forth in the said plaintiff's 
declaration : which said article is in the words 
and figures following, to wit : 

"GOV. MARCY AND THE ROVING COMMISSION. 

On the 16th of March we published the cor- 
respondence between the Hon. Wm, Jay and 
the mayor of this city, touching the abduction 
of a colored man, by the name of Peter Lee, 
from the county of Westchester, under cover 
of a warrant from Governor Marcy. From this 
correspondence, it appeared that the M colored 
man was seized and sent to the South, under a 
three years old warrant, without the interposi- 
tion of a magistrate, and without any legal 
proof of his identity." At that time it was not 
known, nor after considerable inquiry could it 
be ascertained what the precise character of 
the warrant was, whether such as to make the 
arrest legal or not. On the seizure of Lee, the 
warrant was shown to none, and in the letter of 
the mayor to Mr. Jay, no information was given 
except that it was a warrant to " arrest several 



[29] 

persons named therein," without specifying 
whether they were to be arrested as fugitives 
from justice or labor. The presumption, to be 
sure, in the absence of all evidence, would have 
been, that it was in accordance with the tech- 
nics of law, and designed to arrest them only 
as fugitives from justice. This, however, was 
much weakened, by the clandestine, and violent, 
and hurried manner in which the warrant was 
served, and by the obvious fact, that the end 
aimed at in the procedure by the parties con- 
cerned, was their arrest as fugitive slaves, and 
not as fugitives from justice. Under these cir- 
cumstances, with our eye upon the real end 
compassed by the warrant, and aimed at by 
those who procured it, rather than upon what 
might be presumed to be the technics of its let- 
ter, we commented in severe terms upon the 
conduct of the governor, in granting it, and in 
doing so, spoke of the persons named in it as 
" fugitives from service or labor." So far it will 
be seen we were in error, and did the governor 
unintentional wrong. 

On the 29th of March, our remarks were co- 
pied into the Albany Argus, and accompanied 
with the following vindication of the governor's 
conduct : 

" We have inquired into the case alluded to 
in the foregoing article, and find, as we expect- 
ed, that it is a gross perversion of truth, and so 
far as it assails the conduct of the governor, is 
without a pretext of justification. The facts of 
the case, divested of the falsehoods which have 
been mingled with them to season the dish for 

3* 



[30] 

the morbid appetites of the abolitionists, are the 
following : 

"Previous to October, 1833, several persons, 
mostly or all persons of color, committed a felo- 
ny in North Carolina or Virginia, by stealing a 
small vessel and running away with her to New 
York. The crime was clearly proved against 
them, as well as the fact that they had fled to 
this State. The evidence of their guilt, duly 
authenticated, was laid before the governor of 
the State where the offence was committed ; he 
made a requisition on the governor of New 
York for their delivery to Edward R. Waddy, 
duly authorised and appointed to receive them, 
and transmitted it with the evidence to Gov. 
Marcy. By the Constitution of the United 
States, the act of Congress, and the laws of 
New York, he was bound to deliver the fugitive 
felons to the agent of the State demanding them. 
The delivery was a matter of duty, and not of 
discretion or choice. He did what his oath of 
office and the duty of his station required, and 
no more. He issued his warrant for the arrest 
to the legal ministerial officers of the state. — 
This is all that Gov. Marcy has done. 

"Now let us inquire — Could he have done 
less ? Should he have done more ? The Uni- 
ted States Constitution says : ' A person charg- 
ed in any State with treason, felony, or other 
crime, who shall flee from justice and be found 
in another State, shall, on demand of the Exe- 
cutive authority from which he fled, be deliver- 
ed up to be removed to the State having juris- 
diction of the crime.' — Art. 4, sec. 2. A part of 
the governor's official oath, is that he 'will sup- 



[31] 

port the Constitution of the United States.' It 
is scarcely to be believed that the most rabid 
abolitionist would expect him to violate or dis- 
regard this solemn obligation, in order to pro- 
tect runaway thieves, because 'they were color- 
ed persons. The law of Congress in relation 
to the proof that the fugitives were criminals, 
was in this case strictly complied with, by the 
Executive making the demand. It is therefore 
very clear that Gov. Marcy could not have 
done less in this case than he did. Should he 
have done more ? He did all the law required 
— all the law permitted him to do. It is alleged 
that he did not order the persons arrested be- 
fore a tribunal in order to have their identity 
established. The law has not directed this 
course of procedure, nor has any tribunal been 
constituted for that purpose, to which he could 
have referred the question of identity, if he 
could have assumed, as the abolitionists hold 
he should, that the offiser to whom his warrant 
should be delivered would violate his duty and 
use it as a pretext for the commission of a hei- 
nous crime — an assumption which wouli have 
been strange indeed, inasmuch as such an abuse 
had not been proved, or even then alleged to 
have taken place in a single instance in any 
one of the States. The laws have not required, 
nor could the wit of man foresee, what would 
be necessary to comply with the idle vagaries 
of distempered fanatics. Gov. Marcy acted un- 
der the same laws, issued the same kind of 
warrant, and pursued the same course that each 
and all his predecessors had done, including 
Gov. Jay. We allude to Gov. Jay with great 



[32] 

• 

respect, and are sorry to perceive that his fa- 
natical son, who cannot plead ignorance as an 
excuse for his errors, has been the willing in- 
stigator of this attack upon Gov. Marcy. He 
knew full well trfat the governor had issued his 
warrant against the persons named therein as 
fugitive felons, and not as fugitive slaves ; yet he 
disingenuously frames his remarks so as to leave 
his more ignorant associates in the abolition 
cause to infer that the fugitives were arrested 
on the pretence that they had fled from slavery. 
The edkor of the Emancipator, perhaps less 
censurable than Judge Jay, announces the broad 
falsehood that ' five persons are named as fugi- 
tives from service or labor/ &c. Judge Jay 
knew, and if the editor had wished to be inform- 
ed, he might have known, that Gov. Marcy 
never did issue a warrant for the arrest of five 
persons, or any person as a fugitive from ser- 
vice or labor. 

" The number of persons named in the war- 
rant, is ingeniously wrought into an aggravating 
circumstance in this case. Is the governor to 
blame because there were several rogues in- 
stead of one or two ? He could not have omit- 
ted, without disregarding his duty, to cause to 
be surrendered each and all the felons that 
were demanded. Would the case have been 
altered for the better, if he had issued a sepa- 
rate warrant for each ? 

" When Judge Jay affects to find fault because 
the warrant was used after it was three years 
old, he must have been aware that it did not 
differ from other warrants issued for like pur- 
poses. It was as to form and direction the same 
as all governers have issued in such cases." 



[33] 

It will be seen at once, that the statement 
above, of the editor of the Argus, entering as it 
does, into all the details of the case, could not 
have been made, except on inquiry into the 
facts, of the governor himself. So that the state- 
ment may fairly be regarded as virtually his. — 
Suppose then we examine it, and compare its 
several parts with the real facts in the case. In 
doing so, we shall not stop to bandy epithets 
nor to enlarge on minute and unimportant mat- 
ters. We will simply say, in passing, that "the 
number of persons named in the warrant" was 
not " ingeniously wrought into an aggravating 
circumstance." So far from it, we said express- 
ly in the very article quoted by the Argus, "the 
number, however, whether five or fifty, is of no 
consequence." And in respect to our "charges 
against the governor," we now cheerfully say, 
that so far as we erred in not keeping to the 
technics of the law in our phraseology, so far 
we retract all charges, and moreover add, that 
so far as he, in issuing the warrant, kept within 
the technics as well as the true intent and 
meaning of the law, so far, we acquit him of 
blame. But this is the grand point in question, 
How far did he do this ? 

The editor of the Argus assures us that he 
did it in all respects. Not only was it a war- 
rant to arrest them as fugitives from justice, but 
u the law of Congress in relation to the proof 
that the fugitives were criminals, was in this 
case strictly complied with by the Executive 
making the demand," and the warrant itself 
" was, as to form and direction, the same as all 
governors have issued in such cases." Such is 



134] 



the positive declaration made by authority in 
the case. Is it in accordance with the facts ? 
In 1832, on application from the governor of 
Rhode Island, Gov. Throop, of this state, issued 
a warrant for the arrest of John L. Clark, 
charged with a certain offence committed in the 
former state. Now for the " &ame"-ness of the 
two warrants. 



GOV. MARCY S WARRANT. 

William L. Marcy, Gov. 
of the State of of New York, 
to the sheriff of the city and 
county of New York, and 
the sheriffs, constables, and 
the peace officers of the 
several counties in the said 
state : 

Whereas, it has been re- 
presented to me by the Go- 
vernor of the State of Vir- 
ginia, that Jack Cowley, or 
Cooley, Severn, George Car- 
ter, Joe, Tom Carter, Mi- 
chael, Caleb, Charles, Ben 
Southey,Slack, Isaac, James, 
Bea, Henry, Southey and 
Ann, slaves, the property of 
several citizens of that com- 
monwealth, stand charged of 
a felony in the county of 
Northampton, in the said 
state of Virginia, and that 
they have fled from justice 
in that state, and have taken 
refuge in the State of New 
York — and it being suffi, 
ciently proved to me that 
they are guilty thereof-— and 
the Governor of the State of 
Virginia, having demanded of 
me tnat the said Jack Cow- 



GOV THROOP's WARRANT. 

"Enos T. Throop, go- 
vernor of the State of New 
York, to the sheriff of the 
city and county of New 
York, and the sheriffs, con- 
stables, and other peace offi- 
cers of the several counties 
in the state : Whereas, it has 
been represented to me by 
the Governor of the State of 
Rhode Island, that John L. 
Clark, late of Providence, in 
the said state, has been guil- 
ty of frauds in abstracting 
from the Burrilville Bank, in 
that state, money, notes, and 
bank bills, while president of 
said bank, in a fraudulent 
manner, which said acts are 
made criminal by the laws of 
that state ; that he has fled 
from jastice in that state, and 
has taken refuge in the State 
of New York ; and that said 
Governor of Rhode Island 
has, in pursuance of the con- 
stitution and laws of the 
United States, demanded of 
me that 1 should cause the 
said John L. Clark to be ar- 
rested and delivered into the 
custody of Henry G. Mum- 



[35] 



ford, sheriff of the county of 
Providence, who is duly au- 
thorized to receive him into 
his custody, and convey him 
hack, &c. And whereas, the 
said representation and de- 
mand is accompanied by an 
affidavit taken before a jus- 
tice of the peace of sai d state 
of Rhode Island, whereby 
the said John L. Clark is 
charged with the said crime, 
which affidavit is certified bv 
the said governor, &c to be 
duly authenticated ; You are 
therefore required, &c — 
Wendell's Reports, vol. 9. 
pp. 212-221. 



ley or Cooly, Severn, George 
Carter, Tom Carter, Joe, 
Michael, Caleb, Charles, 
Southy, Slack, Isaac, James 
Ben, Henry, Southey, and 
Ann should be delivered to 
Edward R. Waddy, of the 
county of Northampton and 
State of Virginia, aforesaid, 
to be brought back within 
fche jurisdiction of said state. 
I do therefore, by virtue of 
the power vested in me by 
the constitution &nd laws of 
the United States, order you 
to arrest and deliver over the 
said Jack Cowley or Cooley, 
Severn, Geo;ge Carter, Tom 
Carter, Joe, Michael, Caleb, 
Charles, Southey, Slack, 
Isaac, James, Ben, Henry, 
Southey, and Ann, into the 
custody of the said Edward 
R. Waddv, for the purposes 
aforesaid. 

Given under my hand and 
privy seal of the state at the 
Capitol in the city of Alba- 
ny, this 12th day of October, 

in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty-three. W. L. Marcy. [l s.] 

A true copy* drawn by me, Deputy Keeper of the Debt- 
ors' Prison, J AS . W. Slover. 

N. Yor k, 29th March, 1837. 

* This copy of the writ was obtained recently in the case of the al. 
leged slave Ben. 

The dissimilarity of these documents is man- 
ifest at a glance. The one charges the indi- 
viduals in general terms with " a felony," the 
other specifies and describes the offence ; the 
one says not a word of an " affidavit" accompa- 



[36] 

nying the "representation and demand" and 
" certified by the governor" as " duly authenti- 
cated," the other does, and bases compliance 
with the demand mainly on this fact. Which 
of the two is according to the intent and the 
terms of the law ? 

The law of Congress " in relation to the 
proof," is as follows : 

" Whenever the executive authority of any 
state in the Union, or of either of the territories, 
shall demand any person as a fugitive from jus- 
tice, of the executive authority of any state or 
territory to which such person shall have fled, 
and shall moreover produce the copy of an in- 
dictment found, or an affidavit made before a 
magistrate of any state or territory as aforesaid, 
charging the person so demanded with having 
committed treason, felony, or other crime, cer- 
tified as authentic by the governor, or chief 
magistrate of the state, &c, from whence the 
person so charged fled, it shall be he duty," 
&c. 

And in the case of Clark, above cited, Judge 
Savage decided, that according to this law, in 
order to give the governor of the state jurisdic- 
tion in the case, " three things are requisite. 
1. The fugitive must be demanded by the exe- 
cutive of the state from which he fled. 2. A 
copy of an indictment found, or an affidavit 
made before a magistrate charging the fugitive 
with having committed the crime. 3. Such copy 
of the indictment or affidavit must be certified as 
authentic by the executive." In the warrant 
issued by Governor Throop, all this was done. 
In that issued by Governor Marcy it was not 



[37] 

dene — at least there is no evidence of it in the 
warrant itself. To be sure the warrant sets 
forth " it being sufficiently proved to me that they 
are guilty" but what has Gov. M. to do with 
the question of their guilt 1 The only question 
for him to decide, if they are claimed as fugi* 
tives from justice, is whether they are charged 
with guilt, and if so, whether they are charged 
according to the terms of the law. Guilty or not 
guilty, if not charged according to these, he may 
not issue his warrant. In each and every case, 
there must be the demand, the copy of the in- 
dictment or affidavit, and the certificate of its 
authenticity, from the governor, otherwise the 
warrant may not issue, or if it does, becomes 
thereby a nullity. And yet where is the evi- 
dence that these requisites existed in the pre- 
sent case ? Had such been the fact, and had 
the " form and direction" of the warrant been 
•' the same" as in other cases, evidence of their 
existence must have found its way into the war- 
rant. The instrument itself, on its very face, 
must have told us, not of a demand and a satis- 
faction of guilt, but of a demand accompanied 
with a copy of the indictment or affidavit, and 
a certificate of the governor. And now, that the 
warrant shows nothing of the kind, what is the 
inference, the obvious and legitimate inference, 
but, 1. That the warrant is good for nothing, and 
2. That Governor Marcy issued it without au- 
thority and in violation of the requisitions of the 
law, and thus put into the hands of the wretch 
who now holds it, an instrument by which, so 
long as its validity is not destroyed by some le- 

4 



gal decision, he may kidnap men and women, 
ad libitum, and by authority." 

But to the reading of the same in evidence, the 
said counsel for the said plaintiff then and there 
objected. Whereupon the said Circuit Judge sus- 
tained the objections of the said plaintiff's counsel, 
and declared and delivered his opinion, and decided 
that the same should be rejected upon the trial of 
the aforesaid issue, as it did not explain the libel ; 
to which said opinion and decision of the said Cir- 
cuit Judge, the said counsel for the said defendant 
did then and there on the behalf of the said defend- 
ant, except. 

The counsel for the said defendant further to 
ftiaintain and prove the said issue on his part, pro- 
duced as a witness Cornelius W. Lawrence, and 
offered to prove by the said witness, for the pur- 
pose of showing that the defendant had probable 
cause for believing the publication to be true at the 
time it was made, in order to rebut the inference 
of actual malice, and thus to mitigate the damages 
—-that a certain correspondence between him and 
Hon. William Jay, of Westchester county, which 
was found in the Emancipator of March 16, 1837, 
and which had been offered to be read in evidence, 
had actually taken place : But to the admission of 
the said Cornelius W. Lawrence, as a witness to 
such fact, the said counsel for the said plaintiff did 
then and there object, which said objections were 
then and there admitted and sustained by the said 
Circuit Judge, who declared and delivered his opi- 
nion, and decided that the said testimony so offered 
to be given as aforesaid, should not be given or 
admitted in evidence on the trial of the said issue 
so joined between the said Daniel O. Nash and the 



[39] 

said Seth W. Benedict, as aforesaid : to which said 
opinion and decision of the said Circuit Judge, the 
said counsel for the said defendant, did then and 
there, on the behalf of the said defendant, ex- 
cept. • 

The counsel for the said defendant further to 
maintain and prove the issue on his part, produced 
as a witness, John Lyon, one of the persons named 
in the alleged libel, and offered to prove by the 
said witness, for the purpose of showing that the 
said defendant had probable cause for believing the 
publication to be true, at the time it was made, in 
order to rebut the inference of actual malice, and 
thus to mitigate the damages — that the said plain- 
tiff and others named in the alleged libel, did arrest 
a colored man on Sunday, November 20th, 1836, 
in Westchester county, under and by virtue of 
some proper authority : But to the admission of 
the said testimony so offered to be given as afore- 
said, the said counsel for the said plaintiff did then 
and there object : Which said objection was then 
and there admitted and sustained by the said Cir- 
cuit Judge, who declared and delivered his opinion, 
and decided that the said testimony so offered to 
be given as aforesaid, should not be given or ad- 
mitted in evidence, on the trial of the said issue so 
joined between the said plaintiff and the said de- 
fendant, as aforesaid, to which said opinion and 
decision of the said Circuit Judge, the said counsel 
for the said defendant did then and there, on behalf 
of the said defendant, except. 

The counsel for the said defendant further to 
maintain and prove the issue on his part, again of- 
fered to prove by the said John Lyon, for the pur- 
poses aforesaid, in mitigation of damages — that the 



[40] 

said plaintiff and others in said supposed libel nam- 
ed, took said colored man, by virtue of a warrant 
issued by William L. Marcy, late Governor of the 
State of New York, on the requisition of the late 
Governor of the State of Virginia, as a proper and 
legal authority for the arrest — and also the fact, 
that the said arre3t was made by such authority, 
was unknown to the defendant at the time of the 
publication : but to the admission of the said testi- 
mony so offered to be ghea as aforesaid, the said 
counsel for the said plaintiff, did then and there ob- 
ject : which said objection was then and there ad- 
mitted and sustained by the said Circuit Judge, who 
declared and delivered his opinion, and decided 
that the said testimony so offered to be given as 
aforesaid, should not be given or admitted in evi- 
dence, on the trial of the said issue so joined as 
aforesaid : to which said opinion and decision of 
the said Circuit Judge the said counsel for the said 
defendant, did then and there, on the behalf of the 
said defendant, except. 

Defendant's counsel further to maintain and 
prove the said issue on his part, produced and 
offered to read in evidence, for the purpose of 
shewing that the said defendant had probable 
cause for believing the publication to be true, at 
the time it was made, in order to rebut the in- 
ference of actual malice, and thus to mitigate 
the damages — two certain articles in the New 
Yoik Sun of November 23 and 24, 1836: 
which said articles are in the words and figures 
following, to wit : 

" OUTRAGE AND KIDNAPPING. 

We have learnt from Mr. Gilbert Lyon, of 
Rye, the particulars of a most infamous outrage. 



[41] 

which was perpetrated in that town night before 
last. An industrious and worthy colored man, 
(name not recollected,) who has been for some 
months in the employ of Seth Lyon, Esq., a jus- 
tice of the peace, living in Byrum village, 
Greenwich, Conn., situated opposite Rye, N. 
Y., on a small stream there which divides the 
States of New York and Connecticut. This 
colored man had been employed for several 
years in that neighborhood — sometimes work- 
ing at Rye, and then again at Byrum. Night 
before last, he was induced by an acquaintance 
at Rye to come over the bridge, under some 
pretence ; when he was immediately seized by 
ten or a dozen ruffians, bound, and thrown into 
a waggon, which was then driven at great speed 
for New York. Great excitement prevails, both 
at Rye and Byrum, in consequence of this out- 
rage ; and both justice Lyon, of the latter place, 
(in whose employ the negro was,) and justice 
Brown, of Rye, have written to the mayor of 
this city on this subject. It is said that the in* 
dividual who enticed the negro over the line, 
was paid $1 50 for so dbing. 

Mr. G. Lyon also informs us that he has ascer- 
tained since coming to this city, that the negro in 
question was arrested (probably as a runaway 
slave) by Mr. John Lyon, one of our city mar- 
shals, and associates, and has already been put on 
board a vessel for the South. If this be true, we 
hope Mr. John Lyon will forthwith give us some 
light on the subject ; for, as the case now appears, 
it is nothing more nor less than one of bare faced 
kidnapping, and a daring outrage and insult upon 
the laws of this community." 

4* 



[42] 

" THE KIDNAPPING CASE, 

Mr. Bouainot, a deputy sheriff, called upon us 
yesterday, and explained the circumstance of car* 
rying off the negro from Rye, Westchester, on 
Monday night. Boudinot, it appears, employed 
Mr. John Lyon to drive the vehicle for him in 
which the negro was brought away, and of course 
Mr. L. had no hand in the arrest. The negro, 
whose name is Peter or Peters, alias Henry, is 
alleged to have run away from Northampton, Vir- 
ginia, some years ago, in company with 17 others, 
all of whom together stole a small craft, and land- 
ed in New York. Many of them have already 
been taken, but Peters, as is alleged, has escaped 
until he was arrested as stated yesterday. E. R. 
Waddy, a deputy sheriff from Northampton, im- 
mediately dispatched Peters for the South. Boudi. 
not shewed us this authority for arresting near a 
score of negroes. It was a requisition from Gov. 
Marcy, dated Oct., 1833, in which power is given 
to the sheriff of New York to deliver into the cus- 
tody of E. R. Waddy seventeen negroes accused 
of a felony, and fugitives from justice. Let every 
black man, therefore, who cannot give a good ac- 
count of himself for at least more than three years 
back, look out." 

But to the reading of the same in evidence, 
the said counsel for the said plaintiff, then and 
there objected : whereupon the said Circuit 
Judge sustained the objection of the said plain- 
tiff's counsel, and declared and delivered his 
opinion, and decided that the same should be 
rejected upon the trial of the aforesaid issue : 
to which said opinion and decision of the said 



[43] 

Circuit Judge, the said counsel for the said de- 
fendant, did then and there on the behalf of the 
said defendant, except. 

The counsel for the said defendant further to 
maintain and prove the issue on his part, pro- 
duced and read in evidence, an affidavit taken 
on the part of the said plantiff, and stipulated by 
the attorneys for the respective parties, [to be 
read de bene esse on the trial of the said cause : 
which said affidavit is in the words and figures 
following, to wit : 

Supreme Court. 



Daniel D. Nash, vs. Seth W. Benedict. 

City and County of New York,ss. 

Amos F. Hatfield, of White Plains, being duly 
sworn says, that he does not know defendant. 
The first time he ever knew plaintiff was at 
Mameroneck, in the County or Westchester, 
either in the month of November or December, 
1836 ; it was cold weather ; I was the under 
sheriff at that time of the county ; Nash, in 
company with Tobias Boudinot, and Mr. Lyon, 
and one or two other persons, whose names I 
did not know, came to my house with a black 
man in their custody. I asked them by what 
authority they took him; they answered they 
had taken him by a Governor's warrant; they 
tr eated the man to some liquor, and made him sit 
up by the grate and warm himself. I saw nothing 
otherwise but that they treated him perfectly 
kind. I supposed the reason of their coming to 
my house was, that at that time I kept a public 



[44] 

house. There were a number of persons in the 
bar room at ihe time. This deponent further 
says, that he did not know the black man's name, 
never saw him before; it was in the evening ; 
they stopped at my house, going up the first of the 
evening, and returned about ten o'clock with 
the man. Plaintiff was in company with Tobias 
Boudinot and Mr. Lyon. Lyon had a scar on 
his face, don't know his Christian name. They 
had a relay of horses at my house and went up 
to Sawpits, came with a barouche, thinks it was 
on Sunday, thinks the age of the colored man 
from 35 to 40, they said they took the color- 
ed man from Saw Pits, does not know what be- 
came of said colored man after leaving his 
house. AMOS F. HATFIELD. 

Sworn before me, this 21st day of Nov, 1839. 
W. M. Mitchell, Com. of Deeds. 



Counsel for the respective parties having sum- 
med up the testimony in the cause to the said ju- 
ry, the said Circuit Judge did also then and there 
declare and deliver his charge to the said jury, 
that the publication of the defendant was a libel, 
whether it charged the plantiff with the crime 
of kidnapping under the statute or not, but that in 
his opinion the libel would admit of no other 
construction than a charge of felonious kidnap- 
ping under the statute — that, the action being 
sustained, and the defendant not having plead- 
ed any justification, the only question was one 
of damages, which belonged peculiarly to the 
jury to decide. There could be but one opinion 



[45] 

as to the atrocious nature of the charge — that 
the defendant had selected an Almanac as the 
vehicle of his slander, a form and mode of pub- 
lication calculated to give the most extended 
circulation to the calumny — and that the tran- 
saction referred to was a public one, and had 
occurred long before the publication was made, 
giving the defendant the most ample opportuni- 
ty to ascertain the truth in relation to the charge 
he had seen fit to make against the plan tiff: to 
the whole of which said charge, bef»re the said 
jury retired, the counsel for the said defendant 
did then and there on the behalf of the said de- 
fendant, except — and also request the said Cir- 
cuit Judge to charge the said jury, that the pub- 
lication or supposed libel now in evidence, only 
imputed to the plaintiff a misdemeanor, and did 
not charge upon the plaintiff a violation of the 
statute of this state against kidnapping ; and 
that they ought to consider the character of 
the offence charged in making up their verdict : 
But the said Circuit Judge to charge the jury as 
above requested, refused ; and the counsel for 
the said defendant then and there took his ex- 
ception to said refusal. 

The counsel for the said defendant also then 
and there requested the said Judge to leave the 
question to the jury to say which offence the 
publication intended to charge, and if only* a 
misdemeanor, the jury ought to give damages 
commensurate only with such a charge : But 
the said Judge told the said jury that the publi- 
cation was clearly libelous, and in his opinion 
charged the said plaintiff with a felonious viola- 
tion of the statute of this State against kidnap^ 



[46] 

ping, but the question, as to the degree of crime 
charged in the libel and the damages they 
should give, was wholly within their own pro- 
vince ; to which said opinion and decision of 
the said Circuit Judge the said counsel for the 
said defendant did then and there on the behalf 
of the said defendant, except. 

And the said Circuit Judge, under the charge 
and with the direction aforesaid, left the afore- 
said issue and the evidence so given on the trial 
thereof, as aforesaid to the said jury: and the 
jury aforesaid then and there gave their verdict 
for the said plaintiff, and $1,500 damages ; and 
because none of the said exceptions so offered 
and made, to the opinions and decisions of the 
said Circuit Judge, do appear upon the record 
of the said trial, therefore, on the prayer of the 
said defendant, by his said counsel, the said 
Circuit Judge hath to this bill of exceptions set 
his seal, according to the statute in that case 
made, this 2nd day of April, in the year of our 
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and forty one. 
Philo Gridley, ,y ~ v 

Circuit Judge. * 7 

Let this cause be argued before the Supreme 
Court without being argued first before the 
Circuit Judge. Dated April 2nd, 1841. 

P. Gridley, 

Circuit Judge. 



