/I 



■ jcs.i.Zj^i^.rdViJ^ii'rs-. - 






tlttl&sf^ 












CASE 



THE VIGILANTE, 



A SHIP EMPLOYED IN 



W'bt ^laiJt^S^ratr^; 



WITH SOME 



REFLECTIONS ON THAT TRAFFIC. 



LONDON.- 

PRINTED BY HARVEY, DARTON, & CO- 
GRACECHURCH-STREET. 

1823. 



■•^s. 7579.7V /.v-ir 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The following narratine is puhlished hy a 
Committee of the Religious Society of Friends i?i 
London, who act on behalf of their brethren in t^is 
nation and Ireland, to aid in 'promoting the total 
Abolition of the Slave-trade. The circumstances of 
the case are described from official ayid authentic 
documents; in publishing which, the Committee wish 
it to be distinctly understood, that they in no degree 
compromise the well-known testimony of the Society, 
against fighting ; and the drawing was taken, by an 
able draftsman, at Portsmouth, whilst the vessel was 
detained there, previously to the determination of the 
British government on the way in which it should be 
disposed of , 



References to the Sketch of the Vigilante. 



Fig. 1. Longitudinal Section of the Ship. 

2. Plan of the upper deck. 

3. Plan of the wings, in the men and women's room, in 

which the slaves here described were found, at the 
time of the capture of the vessel, lying on a plat- 
form between the upper and lower decks *. 

4. Plan of the lower deck. 

5. Transverse Section of the Ship, from the water-line 

upward. 

6. Iron collar fastened about the neck of the slaves. 

7. Padlock to the neck-collar. 

8. Iron fetters put on the arms and legs of the slaves. 

ft. in. 

Length of the lower deck, at A A. Fig. 1 81 7 

Height between decks from deck to deck 4 8 

Length of the men's room, BB. Fig. 4. ...... 37 

Breadth of the men's room, CC. 22 4 

Breadth of the platforms in the men's room, 

DD. Fig. 3 5 3 

Length of the women's room, EE. Fig. 4 14 4 

Breadth of the women's room, F F 19 4 

Breadth of the platforms in the women's room, 

GG. Fig. 3 4 10 

Length of the cabin, HH. Fig. 4 18 

Height of the Cabin 6 5 

Length of the upper deck, at I T. Fig. 2 9i 

Breadth of the upper deck, at K K 22 3 

The green lifies in Fig. 1 and 5, denote the water. 

XT -n rru u f 1 .. 1 f •'! the mefi's room . . 227 

N. B. 1 he number or slaves stowed < . ^, , ,^' 

(_ m the women s room . 120 

347 

" The slaves were found lying on their backs, on the lower deck, at 
they are here represented : those in the centre were sitting, some in the 
posture in which they are here shown, and otliers \vith their legs bent 
under them, resting upon the soles of their feet. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/caseofvigilantesOOIpnd 



CASE OF 



THE VIGILANTE, cjc. 



The annexed plate is a drawing of a vessel em- 
ployed in the Slave-trade, which was captured by 
Lieutenant Mildmay, in the river Bonny, on the 
coast of Africa, on the 15th of 4th month, (April,) 
1822. The brig, named the Vigilante, was from 
Nantes. It was 240 tons burden, and had on 
board, at the time it was taken, 345 slaves. It was 
manned by thirty men, armed with four twelve- 
pounders, all of which were brought over on one side 
for the attack. The circumstances of the case are 
thus stated : Sir Robert Mends was commander of 
a squadron off the coast of Africa, stationed there 
by the British government, to prevent the infraction 
of the laws for the abolition of the Slave-trade. 
He sent out Lieutenant Mildmay, with the boats 
belonging to his vessels, to reconnoitre in the river 
Bonny, a place notorious for the carrying on of this 
traffic. The boats having crossed the bar soon 



after day-light^ about seven o'clock, six sail, .{two 
schooners and four brigs,) were observed lying at 
anchor off the town of Bonny. When the boats were 
about four miles off, they displayed their colours; 
and, as they advanced, the slave-vessels were seen 
moored across the stream, with springs on their 
cables, all armed, with apparently about 400 slaves 
on board, and the crews fully prepared to resist any 
attack that might be made upon them. The two 
schooners and three of the brigs opened a heavy fire 
of canister and grape-shot, and musketry, upon the 
English boats as they advanced. When the latter 
were near enough for their shots to take effect, the 
firing was returned. They advanced, and in a short 
time took possession of all the vessels. 

The other ships proved to be the Yeanam, a 
Spanish schooner from the Havannah, 306 tons, 
380 slaves on board : the Vicua, a Spanish schooner 
from the Havannah, 180 tons, 325 slaves on board: 
the Petite Betsey, a French brig from Nantes, 184 
tons, 218 slaves on board : the Ursule, a French 
brigantine from St. Pierre, Martinique, 100 tons, 
347 slaves on board: — all manned and armed in 
such a way, as that they might fight desperately, if 
attacked. The Theodore, a French brig, had no 
slaves on board ; but they were on shore, in readi- 
ness for embarkation. 

Many of the slaves jumped overboard during 
the engagement, and were devoured by the sharks. 
On board the Yeanam, which made the most deter- 
mined resistance, the slaves suffered much : there 



9 

were four killed, and ten wounded. Of the ten 
wounded, three were females : one innocent girl 
about ten years of age, lost both her legs, another 
her right arm, and a third was shot in the side. 
Even after the Spanish sailors had resigned their 
vessel to the British seamen, a number of them 
skulked below, and arming the slaves with muskets 
made them fire upwards upon the British. On 
board this ship. Lieutenant Mildmay observed a 
slave-girl, about twelve or thirteen years of age, 
in irons, to whicli was fastened a thick iron chain, 
ten feet in length, that was dragged along as she 
moved. He ordered the girl to be instantly released 
from this fetter; and that the captain, who had 
treated her so cruelly, should not be ignorant of the 
pain inflicted upon an unprotected and innocent 
child, the irons were ordered to be put on him. 

The Spanish schooner Vicua, when taken posses- 
sion of, had a lighted match, hanging over the open 
magazine-hatch. The match was lighted and placed 
there by the crew, before they leaped overboard 
and swam for the shore : it was seen by one of the 
British seamen, who put his hat under the burning 
wick, and removed it. The magazine contained a 
large quantity of powder : one spark from the flam- 
ing match would have blown up 325 unfortunate 
victims, ironed in the hold. These monsters in 
iniquity deeply regretted, after the action, the failure 
of their diabolical plan. 

The slaves, at the time of the capture of the 
vessel, were found in the wretched condition as 



10 

exhibited in this plate: some lying on their backs, 
others sitting on the bottom of the ships. They 
were chained to each other by the arms and legs. 
Iron collars were round their necks, of which, see 
a drawing. Fig. 6. In addition to these provisions 
for confinement, they were fastened together by a 
long chain, which connected several of the collars, 
for their greater security in their dismal prison. 
Thumb-screws, to be used as instruments of torture, 
were also found in the vessel. From their confine- 
ment and suff*erings, they often injured themselves 
by beating; and vented their grief upon such as were 
next them, by biting and tearing their flesh. Some 
of them were bound in cords, and many had their 
arms grievously lacerated. Upwards of 150 of the 
slaves died on their passage to Sierra Leone. The 
Spanish schooner from the Havannah was separated 
from the other vessels in a dreadful storm, as they 
were proceeding to this port. She was lost, and the 
380 slaves perished ! The vessels were taken to that 
port: those from Spain were left for adjudication 
by the Mixed Commission Court of Great Britain 
and Spain: those from France were sent to England, 
to be disposed of by the British government, which 
ordered them to sail to France. The slaves were 
all liberated, and distributed in the colony of Sierra 
Leone, through the villages settled by other captive 
negroes : here they have regained their freedom, and 
have the opportunity of being instructed in the arts 
of agriculture and mechanics. 



\ 



11 

What a number of reflections does this affecting 
case awaken. Here is a proof, to a demonstration, 
brought home to the eyes and ears of the people of 
Europe, of the cruelties and wickedness exercised 
towards the poor negroes. In defiance of the laws of 
his country, in violation of every feeling of humanity, 
the merchant who trades in human blood not only 
embarks his property, and employs his seamen, to 
seize the innocent Africans, but he increases his 
crew, and supplies them with arms and ammunition, 
to kill all who would interrupt them in their career 
of wickedness. Here we see upwards of 1500 
human beings torn from their homes, bought for a 
trifling price, and destined to perpetual bondage in 
an unknown land. Thus this murderous traffic is 
kept up, to gratify the avarice of Europeans — of 
a people who boast that they themselves are far 
advanced in habits of refinement, and in the enjoy- 
ments of civilized and polished society. How long 
will they suffer this deep reproach to be brought 
against them ? 

Reader ! look at the Plate, and dwell for a few 
moments on those emotions which thou must feel. 
Think of the miseries to which these wretched, harm- 
less sufferers are subjected. Picture to thyself a scene, 
in which, in this narrow space, one is bemoaning the 
loss of his nearest connexions in life, and brooding, 
in melancholy sadness, over the cruelties and suffer- 
ings under which he is to spend the remainder of 
his days. See another pining with sickness, languid 
from loss of appetite, and from the noxious air which 



12 

he must breathe, treated in this wretched condition 
with indifference, and even with iinkindness, by 
those who lie next him. Look at a third, subjected 
to the torture of the thumb-screw, or some other 
instrument of pain, because he refuses to partake of 
food which, in his mournful state, he cannot relish. 
Think of others who are biting each other's flesh, 
and thus, in the bitterness of their grief, attempting 
to vent the anguish of their hearts. When thou hast 
contemplated this spectacle of accumulated suffering, 
ask thyself these questions: What crimes have these, 
my brethren and sisters, the children of one common 
Parent, committed ? — what insult have they offered 
to their cruel persecutors ?■ — for what reason do they 
thus incur the infliction of imprisonment, torture, 
and misery? The answer to these inquiries is, 
None whatever: — they are innocent, unprotected 
sufferers. 

Wilt thou, with this scene before thine eyes; — 
wilt thou, in the remembrance that it is only a 
specimen of that cruelty which, from year to year, 
has been practised in hundreds of vessels, and upon 
tens of thousands of thy fellow-mortals : — wilt thou 
any longer hesitate to raise thy voice on behalf of the 
enslaved Africans ; to do thy utmost to make known 
to others the continuance of scenes of agony and 
cruelty; and boldly to assert that, although their 
colour is different from thine, and their rulers may 
sell them into cruel bondage, they are equally with 
thyself entitled to the blessing of liberty ? 

Remember -(and oh that this thought might 



13 

pierce the very hearts of their persecutors) remem- 
ber that their cries and sufferings are heard by that 
Ahnighty Being, whose all-seeing eye penetrateth 
every corner of the globe. Though man may treat 
them with hard-heartedness and cruelty, God be- 
holdeth them with tender compassion and pity ; and 
the time will certainly arrive when He will manifest 
his justice, and punish the oppressor. Kemember, 
and consider, that if thou turn a deaf ear to the 
cries of the innocent, and care not for their suf- 
ferings, thou mayst become a partaker of other 
men's guilt, and not stand acquitted in the sight of 
Heaven. 



Harvcy> Darton, and Cr. Printer:, Craccchurch-Strcel, London. 



