iEiei=^i 



BJSiSISJSISJt 




n 
a 
n 



A 



i'OllTK VrJXUK 



UF 



IDt*)mM©l'a(S ©ILii'^ 



UNITED STATES 



III 

■^» >iORAL KIGHTS OF THE SLAVB, WlTii 

FHE LEGAL PRIVn^EGI- 1- ^-' T^t- 



WITH 



FOR FREE PEKSO^ 



>LOM 



11 

a 

li 1 .nmMoms of f. wts o^ t// . 

H 

■n p vi .1 ,(; -TRATED WITH ENGRA\ 



KIBNAPPING 






■ I 



Miii\ 



BY JESSE TOUBEY, 

- " ' rals a"i • Ui' 



PUBUSHEl) 



to« >gij»nfTrhmT n 'i»u'i*w » -•'■•■ 



,'',•1.1- 



% 



I" 




'flv ^ ^ /^l^l^c^ 



/f// 



^tlle/ti^ckli fMxMAjp^- 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/portraitur.eofdom1817torr 






I'i P'i Pi! 



i; 



:J:;.i'!mi,li!l!i'h.ll!lliiiiii.. ':iiiliJI'!i!!i;ll'l!!':''';.™!lll«lW))i!Nli|lll]i!! 




'^ I' 






A 
PORTRAITUEE 



2D®mig^M© ©JL^^J^lBl'c 



9 ' 

IN THE 

UNITED STATES: 

■ f 

/ WITH 

REFLECTIONS ON T^E PRACTICABILITY OF RESTORING THE 

MORAL RIGHTS OF THE SLAVE, WITHOUT IMPAIRING 

THE LEGAL PRIVILEGES OF THE POSSESSOR ; 

A PR<)JECT OF A COLONIAL ASYLUM 

' FOR FREE PERSONS OF COLOUR: 

.V' ,' INCLUDING 

MEMOIRS OFFJICTS OjY THE UVTERIOR TRAFFIC IJ^" SLAVES, 

,AND ON 

KIDNAPPING. 

ILLUSTRATED WITH ENGRAVINGS. 



BY JESSE TOiiREY, Jux. Physician, 

Author of a Series of Essays on Morals and the Diffusion of Knowledge^ 



PHILADELPHIA: 

PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR; 

JOHN BIOREN, PRINTER. 

1817. 



©,ISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, to wit : 

^vwvwjit Be it remembered. That on the twenty-fifth day of Janu^ 
\ \ ary, in the forty -first year of the Independence of the Uni- 

I SEAL. I tgj Slates of America, A. D. 1817, Jesse Torrey, Jun. 

5<.vvx.vwTK, Physician, of the said district, hath deposited in this office 

the title of a Book, the right whereof he claims as Author, in the 

words following, to wit : 

"A Portraiture of Domestic Slavery, in the United States: with 
reflections on the practicability of restoring the moral rights of the 
Slave, without impairing the legal privileges of the possessor ; and a 
Project of a Colonial Asylum for Free Persons of Colour: including 
Memoirs of Facts on the interior Traffic in Sla^«es, and on Kidnap- 
ping. Illustrated with Engravings. By Jesse Torrey, jun. Physician. 
Author of a Series of Essays on Morals and the Diffusion of Know- 
ledge." 

In conformity to the act of the congress of the United States, inti- 
tuled, " An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the 
copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of 
such copies, during the times therein mentioned." And also to the 
act, entitled " An act supplementary to an act, entitled ' An act for 
the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, 
charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies dur- 
ing the times therein mentioned,' and extending the benefits thereof 
to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other 
priots." 

D. CALDWELL, 

Clerk of the District of Pennsylvaniii. 



TO the candid consideration of Philanthropists, 
Legislators, and Possessors of Slaves, the following 
Essay is respectfully submitted, by the Author, with- 
out offering any apology for pleading the cause of 
an injured and despised race of men, except the 
consciousness of being himself, A MAN. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 



IT is generally acknowledged by men of candor 
and prudence, that persecution and intolerance add strength 
to error, and that corrosive irritating epithets tend to defeat 
the object of liberal discussion,— the conviction of truth. 
Nor can it produce any valuable end, for one frail member 
of the same fraternity, to attack another, with a volley of 
threats and predictions of the curses and vengeance of 
their common Father. 

Possessors of Slaves have been frequently menaced with 
the visitation of some tremendous and sudden burst of 
Divine wrath. If such an instance has existed, it has 
occurred so seldom, and with such protracted forbearance, 
that they have generally regarded it as a casualty, and have 
not been deterred from persisting in the custom of retain- 
ing possession of their slaves. It is, however, an incon- 
trovertible theorem, that the sentinels of Divine justice, 
are seldom trespassed upon, without regular and appro- 
priate retribution, in some shape, and at some time or 
other. 



C vi ] 

The Author will not be surprised if he shall be charged 
with presumption, in meddling with a subject which has 
already occupied the most profound reflections of the most 
eminent philanthropists and statesmen. He is sensible 
that an attempt, in the present epoch of moral advance- 
ment, to prove the injustice and cruelty of the African 
Slave Trade, is entirely unnecessary. Every truly civil- 
ized nation has already denounced and discarded it. But 
its effects, whether they partake of a like character with 
their cause or not, still exist. Domestic Slavery, however 
noxious a weed to the tree of liberty, has taken deep root 
in this highly favoured country; — and men become slave- 
holders and slaves by inheritanoe, without any exercise of 
their own wills, and are compelled, (for the present) to re- 
main so, by the coercive mandates of human laws ! And 
who shall we blame 7 Or is it not of more importance to 
seek an antidote to a dangerous disease, than to indulge in 
execratidlis against its authors ? — As much as the melan- 
choly condition of the slaves is to be deplored, but little less 
do their masters claim the sympathy of the philanthropist, 
who is capable of perceiving the certainty of specific moral 
effects, from specific mox"al causes.^ 

The Author's chief solicitude is to convince the pos- 
sessors of slaves, that the laws do not compel them to be 
tyrants, (as a worthy gentleman of that class of citizens has 



[ vii 3 

intimated) but that it is in their power, and will best pro- 
mote their oivn interests, both pecuniary and moral, to 
civilize and instruct that inoffensive and helpless race of 
people, whose lot has been cast under their guardianship ; 
— to be patrons, benefactors, — neighbours to them — and 
view them and use them, as constituting a portion of the 
admirable works of the same beneficent and omnipresent 
Parent, Overseer, and Proprietor^ of us all ; 6?/, and in 
whom, we all live, breathe, and have our being. 



Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 1 816. 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY 



Many schemes have been proposed for alleviating 
the miseries and evils produced by tiie enslavement of the 
African race in the United States. Possessors of slaves, 
as well as others, have investigated the subject with great 
industry and anxiety ; and all agree that something ought 
to be done. The suggestion of an infallible remedy is 
useless, if it be impossible to attain or apply it. Expor- 
tation to Africa, (the country to which the wisdom of their 
Creator has adapted their colour and faculties ; ) separate 
colonization on the public lands ; employment on national 
canals, roads, &c. have been recommended. These pro- 
jects are most certainly impracticable, except partially : — 
because their completion would require the voluntary 
estrangement by its legal holders, of an immense quantity 
and value of what is generally though erroneously termed 
property — human liberty.* And in the present moral 
and intellectual condition of the slaves, the result would be 
perhaps of doubtful benefit. 

In examining this subject, I shall endeavour to be tem- 
perate, and to avoid indulging in the use of reprehensive 
acrimonious modes of expression. 



* The liberty of the black population in but a single state, is esti- 
"mated at about thirty millions of dollars. 

B 



10 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

Without the most distant inclination to aggravate the 
feelings of any individual, but because " we ought not to 
^hrink from the investigation of truth, however unpopular, 
nor conceal it whatever the profession of it may cost,"* a 
concise sketch will be presented, of the facts and incidents 
which have prompted this address. The peculiar con- 
nexion with which some of these occurrences succeeded 
each other, was certainly extraordinary, and to those who 
are not incredulous, may seem astonishing. 

The first opportunity that ever occurred to me, of 
viewing a slave plantation, was furnished by a journey 
during the summer of 1815, from Pittsburg to the city 
of Washington. In the course of my route I travelled 
through part of Virginia, west of the Blue Ridge, by way 
of Winchester, and through part of Maryland by way of 
Fredericktown, on the east side. 

My first contemplation of the magnificent edifice, 
towering over the surrounding clusters of huts, and the 
extensive fields, impressed an idea of their similarity to the 
castles of European princes, dukes, lords, barons, &c. 
with the cottages of their tenants. But a closer coriside- 
ration led me to this unavoidable conclusion : that these 
splendid fabrics are virtually the palaces of hereditary ab- 
solute monarchs ; — that the laborers and people over whom 
they reign, are their lawful subjects or vassals — consti- 
tuting kingdoms in miniature; — with this difference from 
eastern monarchies, that the king here, instead of receiving 
merely a revenue from his subjects, has legitimate power, 
(if he is disposed to avail himself of it,) to exercise the 
most unlimited and tyrannical despotismf over their per- 
sons, and to extort the whole of the products of their in- 
dustry, except what may be indispensible to prevent star-, 
vation. 

* Governor Miller's message to the legislature of North Carolina in 
1815. 

\ "Political subordination, however hateful to a liberal mind, is 
as bright as day when compared with the dark and hopeless bondage 
of the Negro." 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. li 

It is not my intention by any means, to intimate that 
every possessor ot slaves must necessarily be a Nero, but 
that, if he chooses to be one, there exists no earthly political 
po- er to prevent him. Excess of power, like other unna- 
tural stimulants, exerts a deleterious and an intoxicating in- 
fluence upon the human mind, which but few possess the 
capacity and firmness to Vv^ithstand. In tracing the endless 
catalogues of kings, presented in history, how seldom is 
the eye dazzled with transport at the name of an Aitred. 
There are, undoubtedly, Alfreds among these numerous 
states; but as long as the diffusion of the humanizing 
principles of pure religion, and the auxiliary lights of na- 
tural, moral, and political philosophy, continues to be 
limited to its present boundaries, it is feared the number 
of Alfreds will remain comparatively small. 

The rod of a tyrant wielded over a few, is infinitely 
more terrible, than when the number of its victims is 
great, and detached over a wide extent of country.* 

Mr. Jefferson, in his Note on this subject, exclaims, *' I 
tremble for my country, when I reflect that God is just ; 
and that his justice cannot sleep forever." The late Pro- 
fessor Barton, in his work on Botany, while treating on 
the article of rice and its cultivation by uncompensated 
slaves, expresses a similar sentiment. " Shall we never 



* Since writing the above, I have been favoured with the perusal 
of a letter from the brother of the late Governor of the State of Dela- 
ware, to his friend in Philadelphia, dated Lewes, November 27, 
1816, in which, after mentioning the arrest of a banditti of kidnap- 
pers, &c. he relates the following narrative. 

" A melancholy catastrophe has recently occurred here. A pilot, 
who owned a young black man, last Thursday morning, when in the 
bay off here, for some small otfence, struck him three or four times with 
a rope's end ; his man observed, " master, you have promised when- 
ever I am unwilling to serve you, that I might choose another master, 
I now want to leave you." Very well, replied the master, but I will 
settle with you first, pull off your shirt, and signified or said he would 
beat him until sun-set. His man repHed, I will die first, and immedi 
ately jumped overboard and drowned himself." 



1^ PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

iearn (says he) to be just to our fellow creatures ? Shall 
we blindly pursue the imaginary advantages of the mo- 
ment, and neglect the still but solemn voice of God, until 

Vengeance in the lurid air, 



Lifts her red arm expos'd and bare." 

Without offering an opinion on the propriety of the 
expression of Mr. Jefferson, I must add, that 1 tremble 
for my country when I reflect that God is just, and that 
his justice is ever active and continually executing its 
commission ! The truth of this may be easily recognised 
by any observer who has not been familiarised to the con- 
stant presence of slavery, from infancy. Indeed, the pos- 
sessors of slaves, with whom I have conversed, while tra- 
velling through several slave districts, frequently ac- 
knowledged that they *' have inherited a curse Jrom their 
ancestors, and that it "would be better for the country if 
the slaves were all out of it.''^ And with respect to the 
red arm of vengeance exposed and bare, it must often 
menace those neighborhoods, whence the citizens fre- 
quently write to their friends in the north, that " it is high 
time to leave a country where one cannot go to bed in the 
evening, without the apprehension of being massacred be- 
fore morning!" I have been assured by citizens having 
personal knowledge of the fact, that the rage of the slaves 
is such, in some districts, and especially near Savannah, 
that their masters and overseers are obliged to retreat to 
some secure place during the night, or employ armed 
sentinels. Four slaves were executed but a few months 
since, in Maryland, for destroying the life of their mas- 
ter's brother, while he was in the act of inflicting corpo- 
real punishment upon them. A citizen of Philadelphia, 
very lately related to me the most shocking heart-rending 
instance of ferocious vengeance that can be possibly con- 
ceived. It very forcibly exemplifies the infatuation and 
temerity of subjecting those, to whom our persons must 
necessarily be frequently accessible, to a state of the most 
savage moral debasement, and then of tampering with 
their furious untamed passions. A female slave having 



portraiture' of slavery. 15 

been flogged by her mistress, watched for an opportunity 
to indulge her resentment, which she executed in a man- 
ner too horrible to describe, and which it is not deemed 
prudent to specify, 

Manv instances have existed, where slaves, in a state 
of enraged desperation, have involved their masters and 
themselves, of course, in mutual destruction. A gen- 
tleman of high respectability, lately informed me, that he 
personally knew a master of slaves, who retreated every 
night into an upper room^ the entrance into which was by 
a trap-door, and kept an axe by his side for defence. 

Does not self-preservation, as well as the obligations of 
religious duty and brotherly love, enjoin the education 
and civilization of our sable heathen neighbors in our own 
dwellings, equally as imperatively as of our tawny ones in 
the wilderness, and of both, on this side of the Atlantic, 
as well as on the other?* 



* The aboriginal Americans have offered their civilized brethren 
a most beautiful and instructive lesson on this subject. The author 
of " The Star in the West," Elias Boudinot, L. L. D. relates the 
following fact. From page 232 ; — 

*' The writer of these sheets, many years ago, was one of the 
corresponding members of a society in Scotland for promoting the 
gospel among the Indians. To further the great work, they edu- 
cated two young men, of very serious and religious dispositions, 
and who were desirous of undertaking the mission for this purpose. 
When they were ordained and ready to depart, we wrote a letter in 
the Indian style, to the Delaware nation, then residing on the north- 
west of the Ohio, informing that we had, by the goodness of the 
Great Spirit, been favored with a knowledge of his will, as to the 
worship he required of his creatures, and the means he would bless 
to promote the happiness of men, both in this life and that which is 
to come. That thus enjoying so much happiness ourselves, we 
could not but think of our red brethren in the wilderness, and wish 
to communicate the glad tidings to them, that they might be par- 
takers with us. We had therefore sent them two ministers of the 
gospel, who would teach them these great things, and earnestly re- 
commendt d them to their careful attention. With proper passports 
the missionaries set off, and arrived in safety at one of their princi- 
pal towns 



14 PORTRAITURE OS" SLAVERY. 

While at a public house, in Fredericktown, there came 
into the bar-room (on Sunday) a decently dressed white 
man, of quite a light complexion, in company with one 
whowas totally black. After they went away, the landlord 
observed that tlie white man was a slave. I asked him, 
with some surprise, how that could be possible? To 
which he replied, that he was a descendant, by female an- 
cestry, of an African slave. He also stated, that not far 
from Fredericktown, there was a slave estate, on which 
there were several white females of as fair and elegant ap- 
pearance as white ladies in general, held in legal bondage 
as slaves. These facts demonstrate that the peculiar hue, 
with which it has pleased God to paint the surface of the 
body of an African, is not the only circumstance which 
reconciles to the conscience of the European, (white man) 
the act of depriving him of his liberty and the fruits of his 
labor. Hence it appears to be a melancholy truth, that 
man, in a morbid state of intellect, (which I consider to be 



" The chiefs of the nation were called together, who answered 
them, that they would take it into consideration, and in the mean 
time they might instruct their women, but they should not speak to 
the men. They spent fourteen days in council, and then dismissed 
them very courteously, with an answer to us. This answer made 
great acknowledgments for the favor we had done them. They re- 
joiced exceedingly at our happiness in thus being favored by the 
Great Spirit, and felt very grateful that we had condescended to 
remember our red brethren in the wilderness. But they could not 
help recollecting that we had a people among us, who, because they 
differed from us in colour, we had made slaves of, and made them 
suffer great hardships and lead miserable lives. Now, they could 
not see any reason, if a people being black, entitled us thus to deal 
with them, why a red colour should not equally justify the same 
treatment. They therefore had determined to wait, to see whether 
all the black people amongst us were made thus happy and joyful, 
before they could put confidence in our promises ; for they thought 
a people who had suffered so much and so long by our means, 
should be entitled to our first attention ; that therefore, they had 
sent back the two missionaries, with many thanks, promising that 
when they saw the black people among us restored to freedom and 
happineps, they would gladly receive our missionaries. This is 
what in any other case, would be called close reasoning, and is too 
mortifying a fact to make further observation^ upon." 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 15 

the case with every individual, whose rule of action is 
not founded upon wisdom and virtue,) voluntarily and 
almost invariably, confounds right with might, and when 
stimulated by avarice, frequently hesitates not to bind and 
sell his wife, his children, or his brother ! 1 have received 
direct information from a gentleman who witnessed the 
fact, that in one of the slave states, a white man, having 
married one of his female slaves, after slie had borne 
him several children, sold the whole of them together as 
he would a drove of cattle ; and it is said such instances 
are frequent. A gentleman brought with him from the 
southward to Philadelphia, (the city of brotherly love,) 
his half brother, the son of his father by a slave, and at- 
tempted to sell him ! He was happily prevented from ex- 
ecuting his sacrilegious design by the interposition of a 
respectable citizen, M^ho also procured the legal restora- 
tion of freedom to the darker yacf-c/ brother. 

In the course of a journey through Virginia, from the 
city of Washington towards James' river, of about 150 
miles, going and returning by different routes, I had fre- 
quent opportunities of conversing with the possessors and 
overseers of slaves, and others, and of observing the ge- 
neral effects of the present system of slavery, upon the 
morals and prospects of the white population. On com- 
biniiig the facts which presented themselves, I was invo- 
luntarily led to this deduction : that the present mode, 
with occasional exceptions, of managing slaves, and of 
educating the successors to those who now hold dominion 
ever them, must, eventually and inevitably, result, by a 
progressive ratio, unless reformed, in the poverty, bank- 
ruptcy and chagrin of a large portion of the posterity of 
the existing proprietors of even the most extensive slave 
estates in the country ! This state of things has, to a cer- 
tain extent, already commenced. I was informed of 
some ancient and immensely rich slave possessions, and 
^ewn some of the subdivided portions of them, the pre- 
sent numerous heirs of which, are obliged to contract in= 
creasing debts annually, in order to maintain the magni- 
ficent style of living, and the habits of amusement and 
sporty which had been imposed on them by their ances- 



16 P-ORlRAirUllE OF SLAVERY. 

tors. In conversation with a gentleman at Charlottevilie, 
I advanced this problem : — Suppose an individual, (who 
prefers sport and extravagance to prudence and happiness) 
becomes possessor of 1000 slaves, and 10,000 acies of 
ground ; if he bequeaths his estate to ten heirs, they will 
receive each 1000 acres of ground and perhaps 125 
slaves. — Pursuing this ratio, each descendant of the third 
feneration will inherit 100 acres of land and about 25 
slaves, and the -fourth 10 acres, with 2 slaves. If the 
slaves should multiply proportionably with their masters, 
the plantations would not ; for it is judged from corres- 
ponding information and facts, that many of the proprie- 
tors, annually expend the whole amount of their revenue, 
more or less. The inevitable poverty and physical debi- 
lity, thus entailed upon the inheritors of slaves, are not 
half so much to be deplored, as the habits of indolence, 
dissipation and vice, which, if not the uniform fruits of 
slavery, are much promoted and encouraged by it. 

About eighteen months ago, I saw, in the western 
part of the state of New- York, a venerable old farmer, 
whose name is Vaughan. He was in good health (being 
nearly ninety years of age) and in possession of a delight- 
ful farm, which had been rescued from the wilderness 
and cultivated by himself and his sons. Two years ago, 
the number of his descendants was about 378 ! the most 
of whom have been, or will be, bred to some useful em- 
ployment, adequate to their subsistence. If he were in 
possession of 1000 slaves, and 10,000 acres of soil, he 
could bequeath them only 26 3 acres of land each, and not 
3 slaves. 

On my return to the cit}^ of Washington, I met with a 
most distressing exemplification of the dangerous policy 
of educating youth, (let their fortunes be ever so abun- 
dant,) in luxury and indolence. I saw a stranger, from 
one of the slave states, of tolerable genteel appearance, in 
tlic prime of life, destitute of property, and unqualified for 
any occupation whatever. He had inherited and dissipated 
a considerable estate of land and slaves. His former ac- 
quaintance and connexions were of the most reputable 




PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. W 

class. He appeared to be literally a prey to despair. He 
said he should think himself happy if" he were capable of 
laboring in any mechanical employment whatever. He 
related an anecdote of himself, which exhibits very dis- 
tinctly, the delirium which affluence and luxurious habits 
stamp upon the human intellect when not fortified by vir- 
tue. He stated, that at a period when he was totally at a 
loss for resources, he met with an opportunity of engaging 
in a pursuit, on the commencement of which he received 
two hundred dollars. Liberality and hospitality to stran- 
gers (if their faces are white) are prominent and proverbial 
characteristics of well bred possessors of slaves, gene- 
rally.* So perfectly had his thoughts been attuned and 
associated to opulence and profusion, that he forgot his in- 
verse position upon the wheel of fortune, and immediately 
commenced free table and free bottle ; and his two hun- 
dred dollars disappeared entirely in one month ; — soon af- 
ter which he suffered severe privations for want of cash ! 

Having sketched an outline of some of the evils, which 
the present state of slavery necessarily produces to the 
possessors of slaves, we will next examine its effects upon 
the slaves themselves, and endeavor to prove that the pe- 
cuniary as well as the moral interests and rights of both 
parties, enjoin the expediency of adopting a different sys- 
tem of management. 

It has been urged, in justification of domestic slavery, 
that the slave receives an equivalent for his incessant toil, 
in the. certainty of being provided with food, clothing, 
and shelter : — and that a rigorous discipline is indispensi- 
ble to the preservation of industry, and for security against 
rebellion and assassination. It is well known, in almost 
every description of human labor, that constant diligence 
produces more than a sufficiency of the necessaries of life, 
for the daily consumption of the laborer. Industry, duly 



* An inn-keeper, in the south part of Virginia, who hires his stand, 
complains that his landlord rfoe« him 7nuch harm, by inviting nearly all 
his respectable company to the festivities of his own dwelling house 



18 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

rewarded, and accompanied by temperance and economy, 
is, widi but casual exceptions, to every individual bles- 
sed with health, an infallible source of competence and 
wealth. As our all- wise Creator has fitted our organiza- 
tion, individually, to the acquirement of the means of 
subsistence, without depending on the labor and genero- 
sity of each other, there can be no doubt but he designed 
that each should retain and enjoy the products of his own 
hands, without molestation. It is certain that the labor 
of a slave is of more value than the expense of his daily 
personal necessities, or he could not be sold, (notwith- 
standing the risk of premature death,) for 400 or 900 
dollars. 

The excellence of the great fundamental precept of 
Christianity, '•'■ fVhatsoever ye would that men should do 
Unto you^ do ye even so unto them^'''' is acknowledged and 
admired, it is believed, by every member of the human 
family, of whatever name or nation, that makes any pre- 
tension to religion or moral rectitude. And it most as- 
suredly involves this precept also, which is still easier to 
obey, and cannot be dispensed with in the positive axioms 
of natural justice; — Whatsoever ye would that men should 
not do unto you, do ye not even so unto them. Will any 
possessor of slaves or other individual, voluntarily consign 
himself to hard labour during life ? will he submit to the 
will and temper of another man, and surrender at his feet, the 
xvhole of the products of his toil ? Unconditional slavery is 
contrary to the precepts of religion, moral justice, and the 
abstract, natural and political rights of man. It is a blacky 
accumulating, threatening-thundercloud^ in our moral hori- 
zon, the sudden explosion of which, might produce danger- 
ous and fatal consequences. I am hence constrained to per- 
form the melancholy task of recording my dissent from the 
sentiments of those, who, from the purest motives, and 
most laudable philanthropy, request the universal, simul- 
taneous, and unconditional emancipation, of a numerous 
body of meek people, now groaning under the grievous 
yoke and goading lash of brutal unrewarded servitude, in 
these United States, " the world's best hope.''"' Yet I do 
not mean to intimate that equal justice should not, or can- 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 19 

BOt be rendered to them. If guided by discretion, it may- 
be administered to them with the highest advantage, and 
most perfect safety, to both parties. African servitude 
might, at the outset, be rendered so tolerable and rea- 
sonable, that the present appellation of slavery, which 
^unds so discordant, in connexion with the cheering mu- 
sic of liberty^ might be exchanged for some title, attended 
with a less chiUing and base note. — Let Masters, without 
hesitation, become Patrons,, Guardians, Friends, Civil 
Governors. — Let Slaves be converted into tenants and 
indented servants, (or laborers) bound, for the present, 
by the lamentable crisis of existing circumstances. — In 
compliance with the loud and imperative demands of jus- 
tice and humanity, and the injunctions of policy and self 
interest, let their toil be carefully and justly proportioned 
to their bodily strength, and rewarded by a sufficiency of 
comfortable nourishment, clothing, and shelter. And, 
particularly in cases of correct behaviour and diligence, 
let a reasonable sum be paid, monthly or annually, to those 
who have discretion to make a proper use of it, or allotted 
and reserved for the education and eventual benefit ol 
their children. Let them be effectually protected from the 
destructive ravages of distilled spirits. Let them not be 
bought and sold as beasts of the harness, without their 
consent; unless guilty of criminal conduct;— and let this 
be decided by the laws of the country. Nor for all the 
silver in the mines of Potosi, let an ounce of iron be ri- 
vetted upon their necks, wrists, gr ancles ; for he who 
fashioned these sections of their bodies, neve^ designed 
them for such barbarous purposes ! Let the '■'■resounding 
lash,^^^ and the savage arts of torture and cruelty be laid 
aside. The adoption of a discipline, founded on justice 
and reciprocal equity, will render these unnecessary. It 
is a very important fact, in human nature, that men, in all 
conditions, perform their duty with far greater alacrity and 
pleasure, when prompted by the exhilarating anticipation 
of reward and advantage, than by coercion, and the para- 
lyzing menace of penalties and pain.f 

* Homer, 
f The ingenious and benevolent Mr. J. M'Leod, teacher of a res- 
pectable seminary in the city of Wasbington, has assured the author, 




20 PORTRAITURE OF SJiAVERY. 

Brissott says, ^'■Philosophy cries, brethren be just—-be 
beneficent and you will prosper, — Eternal slavery must be 
an eternal source of crimes ; — divest it at least of the 
epithet eternal^ for anguish that knows no bounds can only 
produce despair. ^"^ " With a pure heart," (says Camot, 
another French philanthropist) one is never unhappy." 
Let the possessor of slaves consult the oracles of his owa 
conscience, — the spontaneous counsels of his own heart, 
and the sublime parable of the beneficent founder of the 
christian religion, and act accordingly. Did not the slave, 
(or his ancestors in Africa,) '■'• fall among thieves, which 
stripped him'''' of liberty and happiness ; — and are pur- 
chasers or retainers of known stolen property, ( — or liber- 
ty — ) entirely absolved, either by the laws of God or man, 
from a degree of participation in the original transgression ? 
Let every individual, then, who finds a slave in his hands, 
whether by traffic or inheritance, " take compassion on 
him^'''* like the good Samaritan, and bind up the old and 
painful wounds, which have been inflicted on his '^unalien- 
able rights,'''' given him, by his Creator and sole Proprietor ; 

Which no man, for gold, can buy or sell ! 



that he has extended the science of encouraging promptitude in duty, 
to such a degree, that, (by his permission,) his pupils have often 
flocked to his lodgings, in crowds, before the dawn of day, emulating 
each other, who should first rouse him from his bed, in order to pro- 
ceed upon their studies. At the same time, he did not permit his 
rules to be violated with impunity. He pursued the same policy 
with soldiers, while an officer, formerly a short time in the United 
States' army, and with the same success. While a private teacher 
in a family in which slaves were kept, his sympathy was so deeply 
wounded by the severity of their punishments for misconduct, that 
he frequently gave them a quarter of a dollar out of his own pocket, 
as an inducement for doing their duty so as not to incur the displea- 
sure of their masters. Might not such a system oi genuine zxiA gen- 
erous republican government as this, be adopted with mutual benefit 
to both the people and their rulers, on the slave plantations, univer- 
sally. 

This philanthropic and sympathetic countryman of Sterne and of 
Goldsmith, assured the writer, that he had often declared it, and 
would, gladly and willingly divide his Uberty, with those who are 
now deprived of it, by devoting for its purchase, a share of his daily 
earnings. 




PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 21 

Intellectual and moral improvement is the safe and 
permanent basis, on which the arch of eventual freedom to 
the enslaved Africans, may be giadually erected. Let the 
glorious work be commenced by instructing such of the 
holders and overseers of slaves and their sons and daugh- 
ters, as have hitherto been deprived of the blessings of 
education. Let every slave, less dian thirty years of age, 
of either sex, be taught the art of reading, sufficiently for 
receiving moral and religious instruction, from books in the 
English language. For this purpose, the Lancasterian mode 
of instruction, would be admirably well adapted. A well 
selected economical library of such books as are calculated 
to inculcate the love of knowledge and virtue, ought to 
form an essential appurtenance to every plantation. 

Governor Miller, in his message of 1815, to the legis- 
lature of North Carolina, affirms, that *' With knowledge 
and virtue^ the united efforts of ignorance and tyranny 
may he defied.'''* Governor Nicholas, in his message of the 
same year, to the legislature of Virginia, says, " Without 
intelligence^ self government^ our dearest privilege^ cannot 
he exercised.'''' President Madison, in his message to 
the Congress, also of the same year, says, " Without 
knowledge, the blessings of liberty cannot be fully enjoyed 
or long preserved." And in his recent valedictory 
message, that he shall read in the character of the Ame- 
rican people, in their true devotion to liberty, and to 
the constitution, which is its palladium, sure presages 
that the destined career of his country will exhibit a go- 
vernment pursuing the public good as its sole object, &c. 
"which maintains inviolably the maxims of public faith, 
security of persons and property, and encourages in every 
authorized mode^ that general diffusion of knowledge, 
which guarantees to public liberty its permanency, and 
to those w^ho possess the blessing, the true enjoyment of 
it; &c." Thomas Jefferson, in his inaugural speech, 
says, " If man is not fit to govern himself, how can it be 
expected that he should be lit to be entrusted with the go-- 
vernment of others ? Can we expect to find angels in the 
form of kings?" Whether it be safe to risk the untutored 
slave with his liberty or not, his situation must be incon- 




22 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

ceivably horrible, under the cruel lash and uncontrolled 
power of a master, who is destitute of education or virtue j 
whose prompter is avarice, and whose religion is intem- 
perance, and the gratification of the most ferocious pas- 
sions.— It is apprehended that many thousands, if not 
hundreds of thousands^ are thus situated ! And it is of 
but little avail, if the master himself be enlightened and 
humane, as long as he consigns his people to the hands of 
a cruel stony-hearted overseer. Let legislators then, both 
national and sectional, perform their duty to their country, 
and its posterity; — and to mankind, by listening to the 
wise counsels of many conspicuous living sages, and pur- 
sue without hesitation the inestimable '•'■parting advice'''' 
of George Washington, Benjamin Rush, Samuel Adams, 
and other departed friends and patrons of man, " to pro- 
mote, as objects of PRIMARY importance, institutions 
for the GENERAL diffusion of knowledge:'''' — and es- 
tablish PUBLIC SCHOOLS iji every part of the re- 
public. — And, as all men are vitally interested in the 
universal dissemination of knowledge and virtue, let all 
classes combine their influence and means, in aiding the 
cause of human happiness. 

I can well predict the alarm that many will sound, at 
the project of introducing letters among slaves. Some 
will imagine that knowledge would be a dangerous instru- 
ment in their hands. It is true knowledge disarms op- 
pression. But those who have experienced and appreciated 
its almost uniform tendency, will perceive that it is a pa- 
cific weapon, — an olive branch, — accompanied by mode- 
ration, justice, and moral duty. Education has been 
calumniated with the charge of instigating the rebellion 
and shocking outrages of the slaves in St. Domingo. But 
the fact is precisely the reverse. The catastrophe was 
produced chiefly by the haughtiness and imprudence of 
the white planters, in opposing decrees of the French go- 
vernment, which concerned only the rights of freemen. 
In this civil war, in which the white planters were arrayed 
against the laws of the national assembly, and the plan- 
ters of colour in defence of them, it is not surprising that 
the slaves should take sides with their nearest relations. 



jm 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 23 

The consequent atrocities, most unquestionably resulted 
from the remembrance of the former barbarity* of mas- 
ters, in 



the dark uncultur'd soul, 



By education unrefin'd 
(Where hissing malice, vices foul, 
And all the hateful passions prowl,) 
The frightful wilderness of mind !" 

Selleck Osborne. 



As mental improvement advances, vengeance and crimes 
recede. That desirable happy era, when the spirit of 
peace and benevolence shall pervade all the nations which 
inhabit the earth, — when both national and personal sla- 
very shall be annihilated ; — when nations and individuals 
shall cease to hunt and destroy each other's lives and pro- 
perty ; — when the science and implements of human pre- 
servation and felicity, shall be substituted for those of 
slaughter and woe ; will commence, precisely at the mo- 
ment when the rays of useful knowledge andxvisdom^ shall 
have been extended to the whole human family. By use- 
ful knowledge, I mean, not only an acquaintance with va- 
luable arts and sciences, but also an understanding of our 
various moral and religious duties, in relation to our crea- 
tor, to our neighbor, and to ourselves. By wisdom, I 
mean that kind of sagacity, which influences us to regu- 
late our passions and conduct, in conformity to the pre- 
cepts of knowledge, reason and religion. Until an ap- 
proach towards such a state of things, is effected, the 



* " Give me an uninformed brute, said Mirabeau, and I will soon 
make him a ferocious monster. It was a white, who first plunged a 
negro into a burning oven, — who dashed out the brains of a child in 
the presence of its father, — who fed a slave with his own proper flesh. 
These are the monsters that have to account for the barbarity of the 
revolted savages. Millions of Africans have perished on this soil of 
blood. In this dreadful struggle the crimes of the whites are yet the 
most horrible : — They are the offspring of despotism ; whilst those of 
the blacks originate in the hatred of slavery — the thirst of vengeance." 

[Speech of M. Brissott, ia the French National Assembly, I at 
December, 1791.] 



554 PORTRAITURE OP SLAVERY, 

names of liberty and security on this earth, will differ but 
little from a will with a wisp, either to monarchs or their 
vassals. At present, violence bears universal and imperial 
sway ; — and ignorance is the magic spell which sustains 
its sceptre. This dark veil, which enshrouds nearly the 
whole human race, can be penetrated and removed, with 
much greater certainty and facility, by the mild but invin- 
cible rays of intellectual light, than by opposing violence 
with violence, and evil to evil. The countryman in 
iEsop's Fables, was induced to throw off his cloak, by 
the gentle but melting rays of the physical sun, after the 
wind had exerted its fury in vain. What a boundless 
empire of glory and unalloyed bliss, might the monarchs 
and rulers of the age, and all possessors of power or 
wealth, attain, by causing their numerous subjects, or bre- 
thren, perpetually encompassed by the snares of ignor- 
ance, vice and oppression, to be instructed; and elevat- 
ing poor degraded, afflicted human nature, to that scale of 
dignity in the creation, which was evidently assigned to 
it, by the Supreme Parent of the universe ! 

Slaves, enveloped in the fogs of brutal ignorance and 
debasement, and exasperated by cons ant severity and 
frequent cruelty, cannot tail of being much more danger- 
ous neighbors, and much less useful servants, than they 
would be, if tamed by moral instruction* and kind treat- 



* While engaged in transcribing these reflections, a newspaper 
accidentally comes before me, which contains the following adver- 
tisement :— 

" Examination in Augustine Hall. 

" There will be an examination of the coloured students in Au- 
gustine Hall, on Monday, 23d inst. (Dec.) in the African Methodist 
Episcopal Bethel Church, to begin at 6 o'clock. After the exer- 
cises in the Latin language, geography, &.c. they will deliver ora- 
tions, dialogues, &.c. and specimens of their improvement, by which 
it will appear that the sons of the despised and hitherto oppressed 
African race, are as capable of improvement as others, and that 
their upper works are as good, to say no more, as the youth of any 
other nation. Friends to the cause, and all who wish their curio- 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 25 

inent. Docility is well known to be one of the peculiar 
characteristics of the African race ; and whenever oppor- 
tunities have occurred, they have indicated a capacity of 
receiving instruction, and of becoming qualified for a hu- 
mane and moral government. 

Should these remarks ever reach the understanding of 
the slave whose yoke : ri vetted upon him, by the laws of 
the government under which he lives, if he will believe 
the writer, to be his unfeigned compassionate friend, let 
him accept his sincere advice, to submit with fortitude to 
his fate, and wait with patience the arrival of the day of 
joy, which has already commenced its journey, and will 
assuredly overtake him or his posterity, not long hence. 
Let him remember, that it is only the gradual progress of 
reason, and the principles of humanity, that can relieve 
him; and that the more he resists the noose of slavery, the 
closer it girds itself about his neck, even to suffocation or 
strangling. Let him conciliate the good Avill and friend- 
ship of his master, by reasonable diligence, and inflexible 
fidelitv. 

Governor Miller, in his message, v;hich has been al- 
ready mentioned, says, " But now, thank God, the hu- 
man mind having progressed with gradual march in the 
path of science and political philosophy, &c. the princi- 
ples, " that all men are by nature equally free and inae- 
pendent^'''^ Sec. have gained and are daily gaining more 
extensive currency." This declaration, which probably 
alludes to Europe, is conspicuously true, with respect to 
our own country. In several or all of the slave states, 
there are many benevolent respectable individuals, who 
are dissatisfied with the practice of retaining their innocent 
African brethren in bondage, and have signified their de- 



sity to be gratified, are respectfully invited to attend." Tuesday 
morning 1 attended the examination alluded to above, last even- 
ing, and was much gratified to find that the performances of the 
young Africans, were such as to justify the statements of the adver- 
tisement. An experienced teacher has affirmed, that their progress 
has exceeded that of any boys within his knowledge in an equal time. 

D 



26 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

sire to release them.* And although these votaries to 
humanity, are prevented by the existing laws of their res- 
pective districts, from accomplishing the full extent of 



* Several letters have been addressed to the Pennsylvania So- 
ciety for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery, by individuals resid- 
ing in the southern and south-western states, expressing their desire 
to emancipate their slaves, and requesting the Society to receive 
them under its patronage. 

In a letter from Dr. John Adams, to the Society, dated Rich- 
mond Hill, Dec. 19, 1815, he states that, A certain Samuel Cfuestj 
deceased, hadj by his will, directed that his slaves, amounting to 
about 300, should be emancipated, and his lands sold for their be- 
iiejit ; which, being prohibited by law, unless they should be reinoved 
Old of the boundaries of the commonwealth of Virginia, he requests 
the aid of the society^ and recommends their transportation to 
Guinea. 

The committee of the American Convention for Promoting the 
Abolition of Slavery, to whom this letter was referred, reported, 
that it did not appear that the convention could, at present, propose 
any specific plan for acco7nplishing the benevolent intention of Sam' 
uel Guest. This is really a distressing case. If there exists any 
where, the power of afifording a remedy in such instances as this, 
the omission of exercising it is, in effect, an act of converting free- 
men into slaves ! This subject demands the serious attention of the 
government, and of every citizen, who, like Howard, the model of 
beneficence, is " a patriot of every clhne." 

Since the original of the preceding note was written, the following 
statement has been published in the National Intelligencer : — 

" The legislature of Indiana are now actively engaged in the or- 
ganization of the details of the state government. Much debate has 
taken place on a petition or letter from W. E. Sumner, of William- 
son county, (Tennessee,) requesting that the legislature may ena- 
ble him to bring into the state a number of slaves, with the view 
which he expresses in the following words ; 

" I have about 40, and my intention is, if permitted by the laws 
of Indiana, to bring and free them, to purchase land for them and 
settle them on it; to give them provisions for the first year, and 
furnish them with tools for agriculture and domestic manufactory, 
and next spring with domestic animals. You must be aware, sir, 
that this must be attended with no small expenditure of money and 
trouble. I think, that after a man has had the use of slaves and their 
ancestors, twenty or thirty years, it is unjust and inhuman to set 
fhem free, unprovided with a home, &,c. &.c. All that I have were 
raised by my father and myself, and the oldest is about my age (46,) 



PORTRAItURE O^ SLAVfiRY. 27 

tlicir wishes, it is hoped they will not fail to recognize 
the high privilege, which still remains in their hands, of 
exercising reciprocal justice to their sable prisoners^ (no 
longer slaves,) and of educating and qualifying them for 
their eventual freedom and reception into an asylum, 
which, it may be confidently anticipated, will, ere long, 
be prepared for them. In fact, I do not hesitate to pre- 
dict, that whenever slaves shall become qualified by intel- 
ligence and moral cultivation, for the rational enjoyment 
of liberty, and the performance of the various relative so- 
cial virtues and duties of life, the enlightened American 
legislators and depositories of the rights of man, will lis- 
ten to the voice of reason and justice, and the spirit of our 
social organization, and permit the release of 

the poor fetter'd slave on bended knee, 



From" Columbia's " sons imploring to be free ;"* 

without banishing him, as a traitor, from his native land, 
where his services, as an industrious, though free laborer, 
may be indispensable to its cultivation. But under pre- 
sent circumstances, I am not disposed to question the 
policy or propriety of suitable laws, for regulating the man- 
umission of slaves, with a view to their own welfare and 
subsistence as well as the preservation of the public peace. 
Many benevolent gentlemen have exercised a sort of mor- 
bid or mistaken humanity, in manumitting, or turning out 
of doors, slaves who had devoted the greater part of the 



I am also very desirous to leave the slave states, and spend my few 
remaining days in that state where involuntary slavery is not ad- 
missible ; and will, with the blessing of God, prepare to do so as 
soon as I can settle my affairs." 

" The mode in which this letter should be treated is the subject of 
the debate. It appears to be agreed that the constitution of the state 
forbids a compliance with his request." 

The writer has been assured, that this conscientious, just, and ge- 
nerous individual, is one among the number of those who made si- 
milar propositions to the above, to the Pennsylvania Abolition So- 
ciety, and with the like disappointment. 

* Darwin's Botanic GardeOo 



28 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

common period of man's life to their service, and who, 
being morally and physically disqualified for securing an 
honest maintenance, have finished their days in misery 
and woe. A very benevolent possessor of slaves, in the 
district of Columbia, informed the writer, that he was 
principled against retaining them any longer than while 
the value of their service amounts to the cost of purchase ; 
and that he had dismissed several, who immediately com- 
menced a career of wretchedness and final destruction. 
The sentiments, on this subject, of " The A?nerican Con- 
vention^ for promoting the Abolition of slavery^ and im- 
proving the condition of the African race^'''' are highly 
deserving of consideration. In their circular, addressed 
to the general Abolition Societies in the United States, 
they make this declaration: " We are persuaded that the 
only means of accomplishing the final and complete eman- 
cipation of this unfortunate people throughout our coun- 
try, is, the extension to them of the benefits of moral and 
intellectual cultivation. That their redemption from the 
thraldom in which they now are, should be preceded 
or accompanied by such aids, as will qualify them to dis- 
charge their relative, social, and religious duties." 

ItwoLild, perhaps, be a pYoblem worthy of the conside- 
ration of the legislators of those states in which slavery is 
tolerated, whether their laws for regulating manumissions, 
might not, with propriety, be so modified, as to authorise 
judges, justices, or other magistrates, to grant permits 
for the emancipation of such slaves, as shall be satisFactorily 
proved to be morally and physically qualified for liberty. 
Such a regulation would be peculiarly important to those 
humane masters, who are merciful and just to their sla\es, 
until their own guardianship is annulled by death; and are 
unwilling to risk them in the hands of their legitimate 
heirs, or to strangers who may purchase them at public 
auction. 

I have said, in the beginning of this essay, that separate 
colonization, &:c. is impracticable, except partially. I 
then gave one reason for this opinion, and will now offer 
anotlier. Were the whole of our numerous slave popula- 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 29 

tion, already manumitted, and transferred totally to a dis- 
tinct colonial establishment, in this coinitry or in Africa: 
our numerous white population, in several of the more 
southerly states, would need to be provided with £inothcr 
colonial establishment, in some latitude more favourable 
to their p/ii/stcal powers, or else perish amidst the desolate 
cotton and rice fields. 

My conviction, that the existence of Europeans, (or 
white men) under the blaze of a torrid sun, is dependent 
on African industry, (or on the labour of such inhabitants 
of the earth, as are adapted by nature to->the equatorial re- 
gions,) must not be mistaken for an assent to the perpetual 
duration of involuntary servitude and unconditional \as- 
salage. This is a circumstance, resulting from the wis- 
dom of Providence, which ought to fill the hearts of the 
proprietors of rice and cotton plantations, with gratitude 
and kindness towards their black benefactors. Let the 
magnificent work of progressive and ultimate emancipa- 
tion, concomitant with mental improvement, be kept 
steadily in view; — but let not the total depopulation of an 
immense tract of valuable improved country, be held 
forth as essential to its accomplishment. 

But as there is, probably at this moment, in many parts 
of the United States, and will continue to be, an increasing 
excess of free black and mulatto population, and also of 
slaves, who might be released if they could be disposed 
of ; humanity as well as policy, strongly recommends the 
institution of some asylum, to which this description of 
strangers in a foreign land, may resort if they please, and 
enjoy the blessings of knowledge, social happiness, and the 
products of their own industry ; and perhaps be protected, 
at the same time, from the sacrilegious talons of the nu- 
merous hordes of men-stealers, with which our reputed free 
soil has long been infested and polluted. And as the con- 
gress of the United States have hitherto declined patron- 
ising this object, (to which their attention has been fre- 
quently invited,) its accomplishment will devolve, proba- 
bly, on beneficent societies, and individuals. The most 
eligible and practicable plan, perhaps^ that could be de- 



30 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

vised for this purpose, would be to open subscriptions 
throughout the United States, for raising a fund, to be 
applied to the purchase of an extensive tract or territory 
of United States' land, in some proper district, (which 
probably might be obtained on a liberal credit,) where 
such coloured people, as now are, or may become free, 
might be invited to settle as tenants, or eventual pur- 
chasers. The settlement might be committed to the care 
of proper agents, and if the profits should ultimately ex- 
ceed a sufficient amount to remunerate the original ad- 
vances with the interest, the surplus might be appropriated 
to the education and general benefit of the African race in 
this country.* 

Having now (as I hope,) shewn the practicability and 
mutual advantages, of the melioration and ultimate freedom 
oi the American slave population, I shall proceed to com- 
municate some facts and remarks on the interior traffic in 
slaves, and on the practice of kidnapping coloured persons, 
legally fi"ee. 

To those who may object to the propriety of exposing 
to public view, such deeds as are likely to shock the 
feelings and sympathy of the friends of humanity, I reply, 
that the object is not to excite popular execration against 
their authors, but commisseration towards the sufferers, 



* A few days subsequent to the time that the above suggestions 
were originally committed to paper, the House of Delegates of the 
Virginia Legislature, passed the following resolution, by an almost 
unanimous vote ; " That the Executive be requested to correspond 
with the President of the United States, fof the purpose of obtaining 
a Territory upon the North Pacific, or at some other place, not within 
any of the states, or the territorial governments of the United States, 
to serve as an asylum for such persons of colour, as are now free, and 
may desire the same, and for those who may be hereafter eman- 
cipated within this commonwealth, &c." If the present system ot 
restrictio'^s upon emancipation should be persevered in, for an inde- 
finite length of time, the necessary final result, must be frightful to 
contemplate. If a state, containing soil sufficient to subsist only 
1,000,000 of slaves, besides the free population, provides no outlet, 
for the excess of that number, by permitting their emancipation ot 
otherwise ; starvation must be the consequence ! 



PORIRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 31 

and to discourage the repetition of cruelty. In supplica- 
tions for redress or grievances, it is customary and neces- 
sary too, for tiie aggrieved party, to represent the wrongs 
complained of. The facts adduced, can be well substan- 
tiated : — but as it is believed that no valuable purpose 
will be gained, by the mention of names and specific pla- 
ces where they occurred, they will be omitted as far as it 
may be convenient. 

In the structure of our political institutions, we have, 
in some respects, undoubtedly excelled the ancient repub- 
lics : — And in others, we have evidently degenerated. 
Solon perceived that slavery was a fruitful source of mo- 
ral depravity to the Athenians, and abolished it ; notwith- 
standing it had its origin in the previous voluntary con- 
traction of debts, by the slaves. We neglect this valuable 
lesson of Solon, and also a political maxim of his, which 
ought to form the corner-stone of every republic. Being 
asked what kind of government is best, he answered, 
*' that in which an injury to the meanest member of the 
community, is esteemed an aggression upon the whole." 
Our law s for the protection of the rights and liberty of 
free yellow and black people, must be exceedingly de- 
fective, or there could not at this moment be thousands of 
them illegally held in slavery. 

Slavery, says Sterne, however disguised, is still a bit- 
ter draught ; but it is rendered tenfold more bitter and 
intolerable, when the members of families are dragged 
asunder, never to behold each other, or their native 
rvonted country again. — And it is the uncontrolled slave 
trade, between the middle and southerly states, which 
gives facility to the extensive and increasing practice of 
kidnapping, (slaves as well as freemen,) and secures it 
from the possibility of detection, except casually. Under 
the existing laws, if a free coloured man travels without 
passports certifying his, right to his liberty, he is gene- 
rally apprehended ; and frequently plunged into slavery, 
by the operation of the laws. But after being seized and 
manacled by the kidnapper, the slave merchant drives him 
through several states, without interruption, and sells 



32 PORTRAITURE OP SLAVERY. 

him where he seldom regains his liberty. If the ^wisdom 
of the state or general governments should not recom- 
mend the complete abolition of the internal as well as ex- 
ternal slave trade, it is believed, at least, that an acquain- 
tance with its abuses, will convince them of the necessity 
of so regulating it, as to confine the traffic totally to legd 
slaves. This could, perhaps, be effectually accomplished, 
by compelling every travelUng slave-trader, to report his 
slaves to a proper magistrate, in every township or county 
through which he passes, and to produce certificates, 
from some magistrate residing near the place in which 
they were purchased, of their being legal slaves and le- 
gally sold ; — and also by compelling every purchaser of 
imported slaves, (by land or sea,j to register them, and 
file similar certificates, in the offices of the respective 
county clerks. 

The act of depriving a free man of his liberty, being a 
violation of the constitution of the United States, and an 
overt attack upon the public liberty, ought to be declared 
treason of some sort or other, (perhaps low treaso72,) and 
punished by a reciprocity, in some degree, of the fate, to 
which the conspirator attempts to involve his victim ; — 
imprisonment in a penitentiary, or some other secure 
place of industry, and moral education ; — for, I do not 
believe, there ever lived a kidnapper, who had read the 
whole of the New Testament, or any part of Seneca's 
Morals, or Paley's Principles of Moral Philosophy, or 
any similar books. 

On the 4th day of December, 1815, (the day on which 
the session of congress commenced,) being at the seat of 
government of the United States, I was preparing to en- 
joy the first opportunity that had occurred to me, of be- 
holding the assembled representatives of the American re* 
public. As I was about to proceed to the building where 
the session was opened, my agreeable reverie was sud- 
denly interrupted by the voice of a stammering boy, 
M ho, as he was coming into the house, from the street, 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 33 

exclaimed, " There goes the Ge-Ge-orgy-men* with a 
drove o' niggers chain'd together two and two." What's 
that, said I, — 1 must see, — and, going to the door, I 
just had a 6\st^nt glimpse of a light covered waggon, fol- 
lowed by a procession of men, women and children, re- 
sembling that of a funeral. I followed them hastily ; and 
as I approached so near as to discover that they were 
bound together in pairs, some with ropes, and some with 
iron chains ^ (which I had hitherto seen used only for re- 
straining beasts,) the involuntary successive heavings of 
ray bosom became irrepressible. This was, with me, an 
affection perfectly peculiar to itself, which never having 
before experienced, gave me some surprise. I have 
since heard an intelligent gentleman, from Scotland, des- 
cribe a similar symptom. He affirmed, that on his ar- 
rival upon the coast of the United States, (in Chesapeake 
Bay,) his first view of the slaves brought his heart int^ 
his throat. I have also been told by a gentleman, who 
holds a seat in the senate of the United States, that " a 
drove of manacled slaves ^ was to him^ an insupportable 
spectacle, which he generally endeavored to avoid ;'*'' — and 
by a representative, (since deceased,) from one of the 
slave states, who was himself a possessor of slaves, *' that 
he never could bear to see slaves manacled and fettered 
-ivith bolts and chains, nor families torn asunder and sold to 
the slave-traders, and wondered how any one coidd be so 
inhuman as to do such acts.^^ Overtaking the caravaTi, 
just opposite to the old capitol (then in a state of ruins 
from the conflagration by the British army,)f I inquired 



* On first hearing this epithet used, I was at a loss to account for 
its meaning. I have since observed that, in the middle states, the 
general title applied to slave-traders, indiscriminately, is " Georgia- 
men." 

f Would it be superstitious to presume, that the Sovereign Father 
o/ all nations, permitted the perpetration of this apparently execra- 
ble transaction, as ajlery, though salutary signal of his displeasure 
at the conduct of his Columbian children, in erecting and idolizing 
this splendid fabric as the temple of freedom, and at the same time 
oppressing with the yoke of captivity and toilsome, bondage, twelve 
or fifteen hundred thousand of their Aidc^n href hren (by logical m~ 

K 



34 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

of one of the drivers (of whom there were two) " whatpai«t 
of the country they were taking all these people to?" *' To 
Georgia," he replied. " Have you not, saidy I j enough 
such people in that country yet ?" *' Not quite enough," 
he said. I found myself incapable of saying more, and 
^as compelled to avert my eyes immediately from the 
heart-rending scene ! Had Sterne been present, and sur- 
veyed (with real instead of imaginary vision) this groupe 
of bond-men and bond- women, and bond-children^ with 
their mute sad feces veiled with black despair — *' and 
heard the chains rattle, whidi incumbered their bodies," 
■ — and " had seen the iron enter their souls"— he 
would again have " burst into tears. '''* I walked along 
some distance before them, down Pennsylvania Avenue^ 
and, on turning round, observed that they had left that 
street, (as if the spirit of PENN had repelled the contact 
of such a tragedy with his name,) and directed their course 
towards the Potomac bridge. At the same moment an 
African passed by, driving a hack; and beholding his 
brethren, 

" -■" Trembling, weeping, captive led,"* 

extended his arm towards them,, and exclaimed, " See 
there 1 an't that right down murder ? Don't you call that 
right down murder?'''* On uttering to him indistinctly, that 
I did not know, he renewed his request to be answered, and 
I replied, "I do not know but it is murder.''"' — — These 
expressions instantly reminded me of the frequency of 
murders and deaths, not only of slaves, but of white and 
free black men, resulting from despotic slavery, and par- 
ticularly from the slave traffic. Several instances of this 
kind had very recently come to my knowledge, from un-^ 
questionable sources ; and at that moment pressed them- 
selves with peculiar force upon my excited imagination ; 
among which I will recite the following : 

duction,) making merchandize of their blood, and dragging their bo- 
dies with iron chains, even under its towering walls ? Yet is if a 
fact, that slaves are enaployed in rebuilding this sanctuary of liberlyf, 

* Homer. 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

A siave having escaped from his master, in the state of 
North Carolina, within two or three years past, was seized 
and brought back, by a being, who, when requested h^ 
the master to name the reward he should render him for 
returning the slave, replied, that all the compensation he 
desired, was the satisfaction ofjtogging him. This being 
granted, the slave was bound to a log, and the " resound- 
ing lash'^ applied, until the resentment of his executioner 
was satiated. The infatuated master then took the en- 
sanguined lash himself, and was about to repeat the process 
of flagellation, when Death, not then a king of terrors^ 
but a generous benefactor, a ^ ^friend in need," rescued 
him from the intended protraction of his excruciating tor- 
ment. After all, let the balm of compassion, rather than 
imprecations of divine wrath, be administered to these 
erring mortals. Their egregious mistake may be traced 
to the mighty force of example, and the deficiency of early, 
religious, and moral education. This fact having been be- 
fore published, must be, to many persons, already known. 

In the state of Pennsylvania, a considerable number of 
years ago, the proprietor of a furnace took up a black boy, 
a few years old, and in the presence of his distracted father, 
wantonly thrust him into the flames and melted metal, 
where he was instantly consumed! The information of 
this horrible deed was originally communicated by a re- 
spectable citizen of the city of Washington, who formerly 
resided in the state of Pennsylvania, and it has been fur- 
ther corroborated by another, of the city of Philadel- 
phia. 

In the state of New Jersey, a female slave, several years 
ago, was bound to a log, and scored with a knife, in a 
shocking manner across her back, and the gashes stuffed 
with salt ! after which, she was tied to a post in a cellar, 
where after suffering three days, death kindly terminated 
her misery. This fact was communicated at Washington, 
by the same gentleman above mentioned. 

As two persons were returning from the hoj'se races, a 
few miles north of the city of Washington, eight or ten 




3B PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

years ago, tthey met on the road, a free man of colour, who 
resided in the vicinity. They seized him, and bound 
him with ropes. His protestations that he was free, and 
his entreaties that they would accompany him to the house, 
(but about half a mile distant,) where his wife resided, and 
where he could satisfy them of his freedom, were in vain. 
Having fastened him by a rope, to the tail or some part of 
one of their horses, they were seen, by a citizen, who met 
them on the road, dragging him in this manner, and beat- 
ing him to make him keep pace with the horses. He cau- 
tioned them, and begged of them not to kill the black man; 
■ — but one of the ruffians plucking a stake from the fence, 
and threatening with horrid oaths to knock him down, he 
found it necessary to retire for his own safety: — A few 
miles farther along, on the following morning, this poor 
African was found by the side of the road, dreadfully 
bruised, and his eyes bloodshotten, — dead!* This dis- 
tressing catastrophe strongly exemplifies the defect of the 
laws of the state in which it occurred, concerning free 
Africans, which authorise their seizure, without any spe- 
cific judicial authority, if found without certificates of free- 
dom, by the most vicious and abandoned members of the 
community. These two ill-starred wretches, just sallying 
forth from a notorious school of intemperance, were un- 
doubtedly intoxicarted, and of course, in a state of insanity 
at the time they committed this outrage; — and had pro- 
bably been reared in the rvilderness of ignorance and vice. 
I was assured, that one of them had long been accustomed, 
in company with his own father, to the business of appre- 
hending runaway slaves, and such free Africans as they 
could catch without certificates. 

In the vicinity of the place where the above transaction 
occurred, a young black boy, living at a house in which 
there are just grounds for believing that the lives of several 
slaves had been destroyed, by whipping, and other seve- 
rities, yet entertained such horror at the thoughts of trans- 
portation to Georgia, (with which he had often been threat- 



* This statement was furnished by a respectable citizen, who was 
on? of the first that found the dead body, near hia own house. 



§- 




PORTRAITURE OP SLAVERY. S7 

ened, by way of reprimand,*) that on seeing a stranger 
coming towards the house, (on a cold day,) whom he 
suspected to be a Georgia-man^ he fled into the fields 
with the greatest precipitation, and secreted himself so 
effectually, that he was not discovered until the expiration 
of a fortnight, — when he was dead !j7-froz-en ! — and the 
pupils of his eyes picked out ! 

With these mournful spectra, flitting in succession be- 
fore me, and the black procession still in view, the pleasant 
anticipations which I had been indulging but fifteen mi- 
nutes previous, became totally reversed. Returning pen- 
sive towards my lodgings, and passing by the capitol, I 
thoughi — Alas ! poor Africa, — thy cup is the essence of 
bitterness ! — This solitary magnificent temple, dedicated 
to liberty^ — opens its portals to all other nations but thee^ 
and bids their sons dvivik freely of the cup oi freedom and 

happiness : —but when thy unoffending, enslaved sons, 

clank their blood-smeared chains under its towers, it 
sneers at their calamity, and mocks their lamentations with 
the echo of contempt ! — Elevating my eyes, (the vision of 
which was possibly rendered somewhat illusive by the 
mists of sorrow,) I imagined I discerned the geniuses of 
Liberty and humanity^ 

Perching on the crumbling terrace 
Of their terrestrial palace : — 

The former with her eyes darting terrible frowns; — '"^ 
The latter indulging in tears and feebler moans : — 
Shock'd with the scene, — they oft revert their eyes, 
That stream'd at ev'ry look — then vanishing slow, 
Sought their own palace, and indulged their woe : — 
Mingling their sorrows with God in the skies.f 



* It is a frequent custom in the District of Columbia, Maryland, 
and Delaware, for masters to endeavor to reform their bad slaves, . 
by terrifying them with threats of selling them for the Georgia mar- 
ket, or 'Ho Carolina" them; which is often carried into effect. There 
are, notwithstanding, several individuals, so conscienciously opposed 
to selUng men against their will, that the most unpardonable conduct 
will not induce men to do it; and they prefer rejecting them, and 
letting them keep all the wages they can get for their own use. 

f See Homer's description of the grief of Andromache, on parting 
with Hector, who confessed to her his fears of a fatal result of the 



38 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVElir. 



" Columbia.' Columbia! ; 

Queen of the world, and child of the skies," 

Why thus thy sister afflict and despise ? 

" To theie what wrong had done this hapless race, 

What wounds inflicted, or what keen disgrace ? 

Did they e'er rob thee of thy native home, 

And force thee sad through foreign lands to roam? 

Did they e'er stab thy weeping, helpless child, 

And fill its parent with distraction wild 1 

Did they e'er bear thee o'er the stormy waveS, 

And make thy fathers, brothers, sisters, slaves ? 

******* 

* * * * say ! for all this woe, 

******* 

For all the pangs the wretched parents bore, 

When from their sides their weeping sons you tore, 

* « * * * * * 

* # * * * * * 
What have you gain'd ?"* 

Blessed, infatuated Columbia! the eyes and the hopes 
of weeping admiring nations are upon thee ! Suffer not 
the lamp of public liberty to be smothered and extin- 
guished by the gloomy shroud of private slavery ! Dos,t 
not thou assume a pre-eminent distinction among the na- 
tions for magnanimity and honor ? Does any high-minded 
christian nation chain her prisoners of war, and subject 
them and their posterity to perpetual ignorance, and the 
oppressive toil of involuntary servitude without reward ? 
In thy late contest with a powerful sister state, many of 
\itv political slaves, who sought the lives of thy sons, and 
the conflagration of their dwellings, fell into thy custody 
by the chances of war. — I have seen fourteen hundred of 
these at a single depot. — Fourteen hundred large loaves 
of good bread, and fourteen hundred pounds of excellent 
beef, were daily spread before them. As many as could 



tremendous battle, into which his predominating devotion to the li- 
berlies of his country impelled him to rush. 

* From " The Wanderer," by George Waterston, esq. Librarian 
of the National Library of the United States. The lines above cited 
form part of an expostulation with Spain on her conquest of Mexico, 
and barbarities upon the natives. 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 39 

meet with opportunities, were permitted to labor for the 
neighboring farmers and manufacturers, for which ihey 
received a pecuniary equivalent in monthly stipends. — 
Fourteen hundred thousands^ of the sons and daughters oi" 
thy neighbor Africa, breathe and moiirn^^ on thy ex- 
panded bosom. The privileges of a vast proportion of 
these forlorn victims of sorrow and woe, are reduced be- 
low the privileges of the ox, ihe horse, the hound, and 
various other domestic animals; — in respect to sustenance, 
toil, and severity of chastisement, if not quarters and rai- 
ment!^'— As an aggregate people, they, nor their ancestors, 
ever disturbed thy repose, with fire or sword, or the can- 
non's deathly roar. They are^ nevertheless., virtually 
prisoners of war: — not by a war in defence of human life, 
but generally, by a hideous sacrilegious war, waged (among 
the African kings) for the plunder of human souls, human 
flesh, blood and bones, to be exchanged as articles ofmer- 
chandize, for contemptible gewgaws, implements of war, 
distilled spirits, tobacco, &c. The booty thus gained by 
the savage despots and man-hunters of Africa, had its as- 
sunnied sale and exportation been impracticable, might 
possibly have been consigned to the same purposes there 
as it is now here, {slavery, ) or annihilated by massacre ; 
but most probably would have been sought with much 
less avidity. If these commodities were obtained at the 
sacrifice of justice, and the natural rights of man, upon 
no other terms can our laws permit them to be indefinitely 
retained, by their present possessors, who are the substan- 
tial successors-mid assigns of the original captors. 

" Columbia! Columbia! to glory arise, 
Queen of the world, and child of the skies," 

« « * * * * *5'i. 



*" And man, whose heaven -erected face, 
The smiles of love adorn ; 
Man's inhumanity to man, 
Makes counlless thousands raourn." 

BURNP. 

f One of the members of the house of representatives (Mr. Au- 
OATE,) related to me, while at Washington, the following fact : — 
" That during tlit last sesision of congress, (1816-16,) as several 



40 PORTRAITUkE OF SLAVERY. 

Let thy " heroes heaven-born band, 
Who fought and bled infreedotn's cause, 
Who fought and bled in freedom's cause," 
Cease to adore i tide Guinea's laws. 

To return from this lengthy excursion, I must acknow- 
ledge, (however ludicrous it may seem to those who are 
hardened to such things by repetition,) that the tragedy of 
a company of men, women and children, pinioned and 
bound together with chains and ropes, without accusation 
of crime, and driven as beasts of the harness, through the 
metropolis of that country, of which I had hitherto in- 
dulged both pleasure and pride, in the consciousness of 
being a native citizen, and, of having commenced my life 
coevally with its constitutional organization ; occurring at 
the precise hour of the convocation of the guaisdians of its 
liberties ; produced a new era in my sensations. Disin- 
cUnation, as well as the delay incurred, prevented my vi- ' 
sit to the congressional hall on that day. — And I devoted 
several succeeding days to the purpose of delineating on 
paper, a faithful copy of the impressions and sentiments 
which involuntarily pervaded my full heart and agitated 
mind. Those memoirs have furnished some materials for 
this essay. 

One evening, while writing notes concerning the occur- 
rence just mentioned, a lad, sitting in the same room with 
me, was studying his lessons in Goldsmith's Abridgment 
of Geography ; in which I noticed he read these words : 
— " The United States are celebrated for the excellence of 
their constitution, which provides for pohtical liberty and 
individual security. The inhabitants are jmtly famed for 
their ardent love of freedom y Immediately after read- 
ing those paragraphs, he addressed me, without knowing., 
on what subject I was occupied, thus: "' Why, how can 
it be said that the inhabitants of the United States lovt 



members were standing in the street, near the new capitol, a drove 
of msnacled coloured people were passing by ; and when just oppo- 
Bite one of them elevating his manacles as high as he could reach, 
commenced singing the favorite national song, " Rail Columbia f 
happy land,'* &c. 



PORTRAltURt OF .SLAVERY. 41 

lihertij^ "while they hold almost a whole nation of people 
in a state of bondage and ignorance .^" I endeavored to 
exp aiii to him this puzzling problem, by replying that, 
*' by the inhabitants^ was meant the white population of 
the United Stat-^s, and the liberty which they ardently 
love, is probably their own liberty, which they appear to 
care more about, than they do about the liberty of black 
men."* 

I mention this minute circumstance more particularly, 
because it forms one of the links to a chain of incidents 
which conducted to the developement of some very im- 
portant facts ; such as I then had no conception or suspi- 
cion of the existence of, on this side the Atlantic ocean. 
I then supposed the instances of the streets of the city 
consecrated to freedom, being paraded with people led in 
captivity were rare. But Tsoon ascertained that they were 
quite frequent, that several hundred people, including not 
legal slaves only, but many kidnapped freemen and youth 
bound to service for a term of years, and unlawfully sold 
as slaves for life, are annually collected at Washington, (as 
if it were an emporium of slavery) for transportation to the 
slave regions. The United States' jail is frequently occu- 
pied as a store house for the slave merchants, and some of 
the rooms in a tavern devoted chiefly to that use, are oc- 
casionally so crowded, that the occupants hardly have 



* Perhaps, after all, this is not so much of a paradox as it at first 
may seem. Admitting the descendants of Africa, as well as those 
of Europe, to be embraced in the term inhabitants ; — we cannot be 
positive but that they too, may cherish under their opake mantles and 
locked lips, some latent instinctive appetite for liberty, and might be^ 
extremely delighted with its exquisite taste, if they could reach it, 
" If I'm design'dyon lordling's slave, 

By nature's law design'd. 
Why was an independent wish 

E'er planted in my mind? 
If not, why am I subject to 

His cruelty or scorn? 
Or, why has man tlie will or povfer, 
To make his fellow mourn? 

ByBifC> 



42 PORTRAITUSE OF SLAVERY. 

sufficient space to extend themselves upon the floor to 
sleep.* 

A short time after having completed the memorandums 
above alluded to, the youth just mentioned, having learned 
the subject on which I had been occupied, and being 
prompt to communicate whatever he might meet with 
relative to it, informed me on returning from school, in 
the evening of the 19th December, 1815, that a black 
woman, destined for transportation to Georgia, with a 
coffle which was about to start, attempted to escape, 
by jumping out of the window of the garret of a three 
story brick tavern in F. Street, about day break in the 
morning ; and that in the fall she had her back and both 
arms broken 1 I remarked that I did not wonder that she 
did so, and inquired whether it had not killed her? To 
which he replied, that he understood that she was dead, 
and that the Georgia-men, had gone off with the others. 
The relation of this shocking disaster, excited considera- 
ble agitation in my mind, and Ailly confirmed the senti- 
ments, which I had already adopted and recorded, of the 
multiplied horrors added to slavery, when its victims are 
bought and sold, frequently for distant destinations, with 
as much indifference as fourfooted beasts. Supposing 
this to have been a recent occurrence, and being desirous 
of seeing the mangled slave before she should be buried, 
I proceeded with some haste, early on the following morn- 
ing, in search of the house already mentioned. Calling at 
a house near the one at which the catastrophe occurred, 
I was informed, that it had been three weeks since it took 



* Judge Morrel, in his cliarge to the grand jury of Washington, 
at the session of the circuit court of the United States, in January, 
1816, for the District of Columbia, urged this subject to its attention, 
very emphatically, as an object of remonstrance and juridical in- 
vestigation. He said the frequency with which the streets o the city 
had keen crotvded with manacled captives^ sometimes, even on the 
sabbath, could not fait to shock the feelings of all humane persons ; 
that it was repugnant to the spirit of our political institutions, and the 
rights of man, and he believed, was calculated to impair the public 
morals, by familiarizing scenes of cruelty to the minds of the youlh. 




- 7>liir r .h,/ I,,/ \K,i/i/ /, ,'■■, and 
I nnnpd '-tit cr fii^ iiv>/^//'m.— ■• 



PORTRAITURE ©F SLAVERY. 43 

])lace, and that the woman was still living. Having foand 
the house, I desired permission of the landlord to see the 
wounded woman ; to which he assented, and directed a 
lad to conduct me to her room ; which was in the garret 
over the third story of the house. On entering the room, 
I observed her lying upon a bed on the floor, and covered 
with a white woolen blanket, on which were several spots 
of blood, (from her wounds,) which I perceived was redg 
notwithstanding the opacity of her skin. Her countenance, 
though very pale from the shock she had received, and 
dejected with grief, appeared complacent and sympatlietic. 
Both her arms were broken between the elbows and 
wrists, and had undoubtedly been well set and dressed; 
but from her restlessness, she had displaced the bones 
again, so that they were perceptibly crooked. have 
since been informed by the Mayor of the city, who is a 
physician, and resides not far distant from the place, that 
he was called to visit her immediately after her fall ; and 
found besides her arms being brokea, that the lower part 
of the spine was badly shattered, so that it was doubtful 
whether she would ever be capable of walking again, if 
she should survive. The lady of the Mayor said she was 
awakened from sleep by the fall of the woman, and heard 
her heavy struggling groans. 

I inquired of her, whether she was asleep when she 
sprang from the window. She replied, " No^ no more 
than lam nozvJ^ Asking her what was the cause of her 
doing such a frantic act as that, she replied, " Thet/ 
brought me away with two of my children^ and would^nt 
let me see my husband — they did''nt sell my husband^ and 
I did^nt wan^t to go ; — / xvas so confus''d and Hstractedj 
that 1 did^nt know hardly what Iwasabmt — but Idid^nt 
want to go^ and I jumped out of the window ; — but I am 
sorry now that I did it ; — they have carried my children 
off with ''em to Carolina.'''' I was informed that the Slave 
Trader, who had purchased her near Bladensburgh, (she 
being a legal slave,) gave her to the landlord as a compen- 
sation for taking care of her. Thi^s her family was dis- 
persed from north to south, and herself nearly torn in 
pieces, without the shadow of a hope of ev^r seeing or 



44 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERYo 

liearihg from her children again ! He that can behold this 
" poor woinan,^^ (as a respectable citizen of Washington 
afterwards expressed himself, on requesting of her land- 
lord the privilege of seeing her,} and listen to her unvar- 
mshed story ; and then delineate it with the mental pencil, 
{quill} and then view the picture from his own hand, with- 
out a humid et^e, I will confess possesses a stouter heart 
than I do. 

The sympathy of the whole American white popula- 
tion, (aiid it is presumed of the black also, for they know 
how to estimate such matters by dear experience,) has 
irecently been very justly excited towards young King 
Prather, and his *' conjus^d and Hstracted'^^ mother roam- 
ing in search of him, along half tlie extent of the coast of 
ihe United States. As he was kidnapped by a son of 
Africa, (though not for the detestable purpose of cupidity 
Or enslavement, but for a ladder to his own liberty,) it is 
Jiresumed if Africa's Genius were permitted to offer her 
■sentiments on the subject, she would pronounce it a retort^ 
courteous apropos, from Africa to her sister Columbia, 

I have since learned many recent instances of the tragi- 
cal consequences of the usurped trade in the souls and 
bodies of men,* I have been informed by several dif- 



* Extract from the preamble to Ihe first act passed by the legis- 
lature of Pennsylvaniaj for the gradual abolition of slavery in that 
state: 

'' Sect. 2. AND WHEREAS, the condition of those persons'vvho 
have heretofore been denominated Negro and Mulatto Slaves, has 
been attended vsrith circumstances, which not only deprived them of 
the common blessings tliat they were by nature entitled to, but has 
cast them into the deepe-t afflictions by an unnatural separation of 
husband and wife from each other aud from their children— an in- 
jury the greatness of which can only be conceived by supposing 
that we were in the same unhappy case.^ 

Darwin, who may well be style*?! an arch connoisseur, botli in phy- 
siology and morality, in his classification of human diseases, includes 
cue which he denominates " Nostalgia" and thus defines it : 

" Nostalgia. An unconquerable desire of returning to one's na- 
tive country, frequent in long voyages, in vvhich the patients become 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 45 

ferent persons in the District of Columbia, that a woman 
who had been sold in Georgetown, for the southern slave 
market, cut her own throat, ineffectually, while on the 
way, in a hack, to the same depository abovementioned ; 
and that on the road to Alexandria, she completed her de- 
sign of destroying her life, by cutting it again mortally. 
A statement was published in the Baltimore Telegraph a 
few months ago, that a female slave who had been sold in 
Maryland, with her child, on the way from Bladens- 
burgh to Washington, heroically cut the throats of both 
her child and herself, with mortal effect. This narrative 
has been since confirmed by a relative of the person ^ho 
sold them. An African youth, in the city of Philadelphia, 
lately cut his throat almost mortally, merely from the ap- 
prehension, as he said, of being sold. This information 
was obtained from several respectable citizens of Phi- 
ladelphia, who had personal knowledge of the fact. 

Believing the facts already recited are sufficient to satis- 
fy every candid reader of the unreasonableness, injustice, 
and inhumanity of the prevailing interior slave trade, and 
of the necessity of legislative controul ; I will now com- 
mence a delineation of the still more outrageous and 
abominable practice of seizing and selling into exile, men^ 
women^ and children^ whose freedom and moral ri^ht; 



b' 



Lb, 



are guarenteed by our national and state constitutions. 

so insane as to throw themselves into the sea, mistaking it for green 
fields and meadows. The Swiss are said to be particiriariy liable 
to this disease, and when taken into foreign service, frequently de- 
sert from this cause, and especially after hearing or singing a particu- 
lar tune, which was used in their village dances, in their native coun- 
try, on which account their playing or singing this tune was punished 
^th death. Zwingerus. 

Dear is that shed to which his soul conforms, 
And dear that hill, which lifts him to tlie storms." 

Goldsmith. Zoonomia, CI. III. I. !. 6. 
The late indefatigable Rush, in his Inquiry into the Causes of the 
Derangement of the Human Mind, states, that the slaves imported 
into the West Indies from Africa, frequently become distracted, 
when they are about to commence the teils of perpetual sFdvery, on 
the plantations. 



46 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

In the same recess, with that mangled woman, while inter- 
rogating her, I discovered (without having the least previ- 
ous intimation or even suspicion of any thing of the kind), 
three persons of colour, who wei'e born free, and had been 
forcibly seized in the time of night, bound and transported 
in the night, out of their native state, (Delaware) and sold 
as slaves for life, to itinerant Maii-Dealers^ in Maryland, 
who generally range themselves along near the line of 
division betv/een the two states. One of these was a 
mulatto man, about 21 years of age, I found him thorough- 
ly secured in irons. His arms were manacled with strong 
loops round his wrists, resembling a clevis^ connected by 
a strong iron bolt. On the shelf, over the fire place, lay 
a pair of heavy rough hopples, (or hobbles,) with which 
he said his legs had been fettered until a short time previ- 
ous, but were then secured by a pair of polished gripes, 
(perhaps manufactured for the purpose, resembling the 
patent horse fetters with locks.) connected by a strong 
new tug chain, with a loose end of two or three feet in 
length, lying upon the fioor.f He stated that a journeyman 
to the man with whom he resided, and to whom he had 
been bound to service for a term of years, having decoy- 
ed him into the fields, some distance from the house, late 
in the evening, on pretence of hunting oppossums, two 
strangers rushed upon him with ropes in their hands, and 
with the assistance of the person J just mentioned, bound 



* To those specnlaters in human flesh, who purchase free people 
as well as slaves, without discrimination, I must now apply the title 
of Man-Dealers, instead of Slave Traders. 

I While interrogating him about the manner of his being seized 
and bound, he gave his chains a shake, by moving his feet on the 
floor, and with vexation muttered, " When the devil gets 'em he'll 
chain them.'''' " No, no," said I, you should'nt make such speeches 
as that, perhaps they were brought up to such things and don't know 
any bettor." " Well, but, said he, ihcy know rvhaVs rightS I have 
since been assured that several instances of black man-stealing had 
occurred, in which fathers, sons, brothers, and even wives and 
daughters, were promiscuously engaged. 

\ 1 was informed on my arrival in the neighborhood where this 
affair was transacted, that this person, on hearing that the mulalto 



^ 






:j3. ^^ 




PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 47 

his hands, and led hhn with a pistol held each side of 
him, (with which he said they threatened to shoot liim if 
he made any alarm.,) 15 or 20 miles, where he was secret- 
ed ■'till the next evening ; v/hen another person came with 
a chaise and conveyed him to a tavern in Maryland, a lit- 
tle over the line ;* from whence one of the Man-Dealers, 
(who has since been advertised as a man-stealei', in a dif- 
ferent case,) brought him to Washington in m^anacles, and 
sold him to another, as a slave for life. He said his Driver 
overhearing him tell a coloured woman near Annapolis, 
that his parents (both of whom are light coloured mulattos) 
were free-born, threatened to shoot him if he should catch 
him talking to any body again about his being free. He 



man had been intercepted at Washington, said he had a had pain 
on his mind, and believed lie sbould dear out ; which lie had done 
accordingly. 

* Thos. Clarkson stales, in his History of the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade, that the arrival of slave ships, on the coasts of Africa, was 
the uniform signal for the immediate commencement of wars for the 
atlainment of prisoners, for sale and exportation to America and the 
West Indies." In Maryland and Delaware, the same drama is now 
performed in miniature. The arrival of the Man-Traffickers, laden 
with cash, at their respective stations, near the coasts of a great 
American water, called justly, by Mr. Randolph " a Mediterranean 
sea,"" or at their several inlana posts, near the dividing line of Mary- 
land and Delaware, (at some of which they have grated prisons for 
the purpose) is the well known signal for the professed ktdnapperSf 
like beasts of prey, to commence their nightly invasions upon the 
fieecy flocks ; extending their ravages, (generally attended with blood- 
shed, and sometimes murder,) and spreading terror and consterna- 
tion amongst both freemen and slaves throughout the sandy regions, 
from the western to the eastern shores. These " two-legged Jeathcr- 
less animals,''^ or htuman blood-bounds, when overtaken (rarely) by 
the messengers of law, are generally found armed with instruments 
of death, sometimes with pistols with latent spring daggers attached 
to them ! Mr. Cooper, one of the representatives lo congress from 
Delaware, assured me that he had often been afraid to send one of 
his servants out of his house in the evening, from the danger of their 
being seized by kidnappers. 

While at ^Vllmington (Del.) I accidentally heard a black woman 
telling the gate-keeper of the bridge, that she hsud set out to go to 
Georgetown, (Del.) but was returning without having reached it, 
for fear of being caught on the road by the kidnappers. 



48 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

said tli€ trader did strike him on the head with his fist, 
after his arrival at Washington, for teiUng a person t6 
whom he was offered for sale, that he was lawfully free, 
and threatened to flog him if he should fail of selling him 
in the city on that account. He also stated, that another 
boy, about sixteen, was brought off with him at the same 
time, and sold for a slave in Washington, who. was law- 
full}^ free, and had been sold to the traders, by a person 
to whom the boy's lather had let him to service. 

This statement has been since confirmed by corrobora- 
tive information ; and I am in possession of mem.oran- 
dums, by which the boy might probably be traced and 
found. 

The others v»^hom I found in the same garret, and at 
the same time, were a young black widow woman, with 
an infant at the breast, both of whom were born free. Her 
husband had died but a few days previous to her seizure, 
and she was in a state of pregnancy at the time. She sta- 
ted that the man in whose house she resided, together 
with his brother, and three other persons, (two of whorn 
she said then stood indicted for having seized and carried 
her off at a former time,) came into the room, (a kitchen,) 
where she was in bed, seized and dragged her out ; — fas- 
tened a noose round her neck to prevent her from scream- 
ing, and attempted to blindfold her, which she resisted 
with such violence, that she prevented them from suc- 
ceeding. She said, while one of them was endeavoring 
to fix the bandage over her eyes, that she seized his cheek 
with her teeth, and tore a piece of it entirely off. She 
said oiie of them struck her head several times with a stick 
of wood, from the wounds of which she was almost co- 
vered vv'ith blood. She shewed me a large scar upon her 
forehead, occasioned by one of the blows, which a gen- 
tleman who sav/ her, the day previous to her seizure, has 
since informed me was not there before. She said, while 
she was struggling against them, and screaming, the man 
in whose house she lived, bawled out " choak the d— — d 

b h — don't let her halloo — she'll scare my wife !" 

Having conquered her by superior force, she said, they 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 49 

placed her with the child in a chaise, (her description of 
which, with the horse and the driver, who was one of the 
victors, corresponds precisely with that given by the mu- 
latto man, of the carriage, &c. by which he also was con> 
veyed,) and refusing to dress herself, three of them, leav- 
ing the two who belonged to the house, carried her off in 
the condition that she was dragged from bed, to a 
certain tavern in Maryland, and sold them both to the 
Man-Dealer, who brought them to the city of Wash- 
ingtcin. She stated, that one of her captors drove the car- 
riage, and held the rope which was fixed to her neck, and 
that one rode each side, on horseback. — That, while one 
of them was negociating a bargain with her purchaser, 
he asked her who her master was; and, replying that 
she had none; her seller beckoned to him to go into 
another room, where the business was adjusted with- 
out troubling her with any farther inquiries. She stated, 
that her purchaser confessed, while on the way to An- 
napolis, that he believed she might have had some claim 
to freedom, and intimated that he would have taken her 
back, if the man,* of whom he bought her had not ran 
away ; but requested her, notwithstanding, to say nothing 
to any body about her being free, which she refused to 
comply with. She affirmed, that he offered her for sale to 
several persons, who refused to purchase^ on account of he?' 
asserting that she was free. She stated, that her pur- 
chaser had left her in Washington, for a few weeks, 
and gone to the Eastern Shore^ in search of more black 
people, in order to make up a drove for Georgia. 

These facts clearly exemplify the safety with which the 
free born, inhabitants of the United States, may be offered 
for sale and sold, even in the Metropolis of Liberty, t as 



* I was informed in Delaware, that her seller absconded in about 
ten days after the outrage was committed. 

f The mulatto youth had been purchased in the city of Wash- 
ington, and kept in it in irons several weeks, by a person who con- 
fessed his regret, that he had not removed him before the suit, for 
the recovery of his freedom, had commenced ; and that, if he had 



50 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERV. 

oxen ; even to those who are notified of the fact|^ and ar& 
perhaps convinced of it, that they are free !* 

The discovery of these captives, on their road to the 
dismal gidph\ of (perh*tips) interminable slavery to them- 
selves, and their muitipjiying progeny ; in this very acci- 
dental, unless providential manner, filled me with a mix- 
ture of astonishment, compassion and joy. With a viev/ 
to commence imimediate legal measures, for restoring 
them to their liberty, I took my pencil and noted down 
their narratives circumstantially. 

I had not quite finished, before the purchaser of the 
mulatto man came into the room. He seemed a little sur- 
prised to find me writing, but made no inquiries about it, 
and having obtained ail the information that I wished, I 
continued noting it down, notwithstanding his being pre- 
sent, until my memorandums were completed ; when I 
left him in the room, without having had any conversation 
with him, except answering some questions, which he 
asked me relative to the wounded slave. Without hesi- 
tation, I commenced a suit in the circuit court of the Uni- 
ted States, for the District of Columbia, for the restitution of 



known it sooner, he would have taken him on to , (-the placjfi 

of his residence,) even if he had been satisfied of his being free. 
One Slave-Trader, to whom he had been offered, was however so 
conscientious, that he refused to purchase him, or the lad who was 
with him (before mentioned) being confident that they were ilfe- 
gally enslaved. 

* I have been ^sured by a gentleman of the highest respectability, 
that a former representative to congress, from one of the southern 
states, acknowledged to him, that he held a mulatto man as a slaVe, 
having purchased him in company wiHi slaves, who affirmed that 
he was free born, and had been kidnapped from one of the New- 
England states, who was well educated, and who, he had no doubt, 
was born as free a man as himself or my informant. Upon being 
asked, how he could bear then to retain him, he replied, that the 
customs of his pajit of the countiy were such, that these things are 
not minded much. 

f I was informed that the mulatto man was probably destined for 
tlie New-Orlean's market, not very far distant from the Gulph of 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 51 

their liberty. The first attempt to secure the persons oi 
the captives, by a writ of habeas corpus, was ineffectual. 
I accompanied the deputy marshal myself, to the house in 
which I found them. The landlord declared that, " if 
he had known Ixvas writing so long in the room where the 
Negroes were^ he should have his en very angry with me; 
and that, if I had no other evidence of their freedom, hut 
their stories, we should not see them.'''' He said, he be- 
Heved'-'' Negroes were made to serve the Whites, and that 
they had no more sense than horses. ''^^ He stated, that the 
person who saw me writing, suspected some difficulty, 
and had directed him to conceal the Negroes, and that he 
had done it. He told me, in a sneering mani^er, that if I 
wished to take the^part of the N'egroes, he coiddfind me 
plenty of such business. He informed me, that he had 
been in the way of keeping Negroes for the Traders many 
years, and took better care of them than they received 'in 
the jail.\ 

Notwithstanding the writ of habeas corpus was returned 



Mexico, which probably embraces more personal slavery, including 
its neighboring regions, than any region of equal extent on the globe. 

* Does not this confession demonstrate the great propriety with 
which the word slavery might be substituted in lieu of the word vice, 
in Pope's admirable stanza? thus: 

Slavery is " monster of so frightrnl mien,. 

As to be hated, needs but to be seen ; 

Yet, seen too oft, familiar with her face, 

We first endure — then pity — then embrace." 

f On the ensuing day, having persevered in endeavors to secure 
the captives, the son of this landlord, (to whom I presume inanacles, 
hand-cuffs, iron inan fetters, hopples, SfC. are as familiar as steel- 
traps and snares to the hunter of the animals which yield fur,) ex- 
pressed his sympathy for the loss of the purchaser of the mulatto 
man, (who still remained in his chains,) should \\e be set at liberty. 
I asked him whether he considered it worse for tlie trader to lose a 
few hundred dollars in money, than for the mulatto man to be irans-^ 
ported to a strange country, and b,e deprived of iiis liberty for life. 
To which he replied, after a shoft pause, that he didnot knon: as 
there was much difference! I assured him, that if he did not, I was 
.forr?/ for him. This illustrates the invincible force qf morbid edu- 
cation and of Jjabit. . 



52 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

to the magistrate unexecuted, I still persevered, and ob- 
tained a process of injunction, in order to prevent the re^ 
moval of the captives from the District, until the com- 
mencement of the session of the court ; by which it was 
ascertained that they still remained in the same house. A 
second writ of habeas corpus having been issued from the 
court while sitting, they were at length produced, which, 
fortunately, was accomplished on the very day that the 
purchaser of the woman and child left Washington, with 
a coffle of 10 or 12 coloured persons, with whom he had 
just returned from Maryland.* The court having exam- 
ined them, placed tiiem in safe custody for further exam- 
ination at the ensuing summer session, so that time could 
be had for procuring the requisite testimony from Dela- 
w^are. For defraying the expense of accomplishing this 
purpose, and of prosecuting the suits, a subscription was 
drawn up by Francis ^F. Key, esq. who volunteered his 
own services as attorney, gratis, as did also J. B. Cald- 
well, esq. and J. B. Lear, esq. The subscription was 
commenced by general Van Ness ; the heads of the exe- 
cutive departments of the government, with but rare ex- 
ception ; several gentlemen of the senate and house of re- 
presentatives, and the mayor and citizens of Washington 
generally, (possessors of slaves as well as others,) to whom 
application was made, joined in the contribution. I was 
highly gratified to meet with this practical evidence, that 
the disposition to extend the hand of relief to abused Af- 
rican strangers, is not at the present period^ by any means 
confined exclusively to the limits of a solitary religious so- 
ciety. Between one and two hundred dollars having been 



■^ By information, derived from distinct and corresponding sour- 
ces, a few days after this caravan left Washington, there is no doubt 
of the fact, that it contained, in addition to the slaves, a young black 
woman, who had been emancipated in Delaware, and was sold by 
the same person as an agent, that assisted in seizing and sold the 
bl^ck woman and child ; and also a legally free mulatto man, in 
'irons, who had been sold in the night by his employer, near Phila- 
delphia, and who was most unmercifully beaten with a club, on the 
night previous to their arrival in the city, for telling a person he was 
free. 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 58 

collected,* I proceeded myself to the state of Delaware ; 
and having travelled from Wilmington to Lewestown and 
Georgetown, returned with unequivocal proof of the legal 
right of the captives to their liberty, which was accord- 
ingly restored to them by the court at the ensuing June 
session. 

One of the attornies having addressed letters to several 
respectable citizens of Delaware, for the purpose of ob- 
taining information respecting the correctness of the state- 
ments of the captives, an answer was received relative to 
the female, of which the following is an extract : — 

" Your letter of the 30th ult. I received by yesterday's 
mail, and am happy to find the unfortunate negro woman 

is once more rescued from the fangs of the s 

and others, as vile a banditti as ever were permitted to 

disturb the peace of society. The statement by 

[the woman] is no doubt true. This poor creature was 

rescued from the s some time last winter, and 

seems in the case which occurred then, as well as that 
which you relate, to have been saved by an almost mira- 
culous intervention. The s stand now indicted 

for taking her off last winter. — Their gang is numerous, 
daring — full of money, &c." 

Understanding that several of the persons concerned in 
the cases had been arrested, and having been informed by 
one of the representatives 'to congress, from Delaware, 
that the laws of that state inflict corporeal punishment for 
offences of this kind, such as whipping, cropping the ears, 
and exposure in the pillory, I wrote a reply to the above 
letter, of which the following is an extract : — 

" Not for vengeance, but for the sake of humanity, I 
hope this fell banditti, with which the free (or ought to be 
free) soil of America is polluted, may be routed. But, 



* Additional aid was also rendered by the Abolition Society at 
Wilmington. 



54 PORTTIAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

for Heaven's sake, and for the sake of their wives artd 
children, and for my sake, let the wrath of justice and 
law be so managed, that their animal bodies shall not be 
tormented, in consequence of my exertions to arrest the 
progress of their outrageous and unpardonable conduct, 
equal to the scratch of a pin. Yet I cannot help charging 
that state jurisprudence, which permits the easy repetition 
of the crimes of which they have been guilty, with being 
exceedingly defective. It seems to me, that where therfe 
is no work-house in a state, such persons should be li- 
mited under sufficient securities and penalties, to their 
own farms, or some prescribed boundaries ; — and, in case 
they transgress these, to be declared to be outlawed, and 
liable to be estimated and treated no other than as wolves 
and tygers, to which they have already assimilated them- 
selves of their own accord." 

Governor Miller, of North-Carolina, says in his speech 
already alluded to, " The principle will be conceded, that 
the end of punishment is the prevention of crimes." La-. 
cerations and mutilations of the human frame, exasperate 
its occupant in the highest degree, and are very likely to 
excite an obstinate perseverance in crimes, by way of re- 
taliation and spite. Imprisonment, with labor, if it does 
not reform the disturber of the, public peace, by the oppor- 
tunity of reflection and salutary instruction, it certaioiy re- 
strains his career for a specific time, effectually. 

The satisfaction of beholding the yellow man, and the 
black woman, with her two female infants, (one of them 
having been born but a short time previous to their re- 
lease,) seated in the stage, under the care of one of th<? se- 
nators of the legislature of Delaware, who had attended 
the court as a witness in behalf of the woman ; afforded 
me a rich reward for thus having performed an indispen- 
sable duty^ which I owed to tlieir Creator, to them as 
their neighbor y to the principles of our social and political 
system, and to myself. 

Soon after my arrival in the city of Philadelphia, I w^ 
presented with the following letter: — 



portraiture of slavery. 55 

Respected Friend, 

The Acting Committee of the " Pennsylvania Society, 
for the Abolition of Slavery, and for the Relief of Free 
Negroes milawfuUy held in bondage," having been in- 
formed of thy being in this city, have directed me to pre- 
sent thee their thanks for thy benevolent exertions in the 
cause of the oppressed Africans — in having rescued sever 
ral free persons of colour from slavery in the city of Wash- 
ington. It gives me great pleasure to be the means of 
communicating their sentiments of thy philanthropic con- 
duct. 

Thy assured Friend, 

THOMAS SHIPLEY, 
Secretary to the Acting CommitteQj, 

Philadelphia^ 7 mo. 5th, 1816. 
Dr, Jesse Torrey, jun. 

[REPLY.] 

Philadelphia, July 25th, 1816. 
Dear Sir, 

The consciausness of having performed our duti/, to 
our Great Omnipresent Parent, and to our fellow depen- 
dents on his bounty, is or*itself a sufficient reward, to 
every one who estimates as he ought, the pleasure insepa- 
rable fron;i acts of benevolence. The applause of practi- 
cal friends of justice and humanity,^Gannot fail, however, 
of being additionally gratifying. Inform the Acting Com- 
mittee of the " Pennsylvania Society for promoting the 
Abolition of Slavery," &c. that I have received with gra- 
titude, and a due sense of its value, the flattering testimo- 
nial of their approbation of my conduct, wliich they have 
authorised you to present ijie. 

May God long preserve your lives, and bless the cause 
in which you have volunteered your labors. 

JESSJE TORREY, Juk-, 

Thomas Shipley, i 

Sec'ry of Acting Committee, &:c, 5 



56 portRaitutie of slavery. 

The specimen here given of man-stealing, forms but a 
mere speck in an extensive system of this nefarious pro- 
fession, which for many years has been, and continues to 
be pursued, with increasing vigor and pecuniary profit, 
in all the middle states. Even the city of Philadelphia is 
not exempt from this moral pestilence. 

To enumerate all the horrid and aggravating instances 
of men- stealing, which are known to have occurred in the 
state of Delaware, within the recollection of many of the 
citizens of that state, would require a heavy volume. In 
many cases, whole families of free coloured people have 
been attacked in the night, beaten nearly to death with 
clubs, gagged and bound, and dragged into distant and 
hopeless captivity and slavery, leaving no traces behind, 
except the blood from their wounds. 

During the last winter, since the seizure of the woman 
and infant, as related above, the house of a free black fa- 
mily was broken open, and its defenceless inhabitants 
treated in the manner just mentioned, except, that the 
mother escaped from their merciless grasp, while on their 
way to the state of Maryland. The plunderers, of whom 
there were nearly half a dozen, conveyed their prey upon 
horses ; and the woman being placed on one of the horses, 
behind, improved an opportunity, as they were passing a 
house, and sprang off; and not daring to pursue her, 
they proceeded on, leaving her youngest child a little far- 
ther along by the side of the road, in expectation, it is 
supposed, that its cries would attract the mother, but she 
prudently waited until morning, and recovered it again in 
safety. 

I consider myself more fully warranted in particularis- 
ing this fact, from the circumstances of having been at 
New- Castle at the time that the woman was brought with 
her child, before the grand jury, for examination ; and of 
having seen several of the persons against whom bills of 
indictment were found, on the charge of being engaged in 
the perpetration of the outrage ; and also that one or two 
of them were the same who were accused of assisting in 



, t>ORTRAItURE- OF SLAVERVi 5^ 

seising and carrying ofFthe woman and child whom I dis* 
covered at Washington. The ingenuity and stratagems 
employed by kidnappers, in effecting their designs, are 
such as to prove, that the most consummate cunning is 
no evidence of wisdom or moral purity, nor incompatible 
with the most consummate villainy. A monster, in human 
shape, was detected in the city of Philadelphia, pursuing 
the occupation of courting and marrying mulatto women, 
and selling them as slaves. In his last attempt of this kind^ 
the fact having come to the knowledge of the African po- 
pulation of this city, a mob was immediately collectedj 
and he was only saved from being torn in atoms, by being 
deposited in the city prison. They have lately invented a 
method of attaining their objects, through the instrumen- 
tality of the laws :— Having selected a suitable free co- 
loured person, to make a pitch upon, the conjuring kid- 
napper employs a confederate, to ascertain the distinguish- 
ing marks of his body, and then claims and obtains him as 
a slave, before a magistrate, by describing those marks j, 
and proving the truth of his assertions, by his well-in^ 
structed accomplice. 

From the best information that I haVe had opportiini- 
ties to collect, in travelling by various routes through the 
states of Delaware and Maryland, and from statements of 
an ingenuous trader exclusively, (as I believe,) in lawful 
slaves^ I am fully convinced that there are, at this timCj 
within the jurisdiction of the United States, several thour- 
sands of legally free people of colour, toiling under the 
yoke of involuntary servitude, and transmitting the same 
fate to their posterity! If the probability of this fact could 
be authenticated to the recognition of the Congress of the 
United States, it is presumed that its members, as agents 
of the constitution ) and guardians of the public liberty^ 
would) without hesitation, devise means for the- restora^ 
tion of those unhappy victims of violence and avarice^ to 
their freedom and constitutional personal rightjs. This is 
a work, both from its nature and magnitude, impfactica.^ 
ble to individuals or benjcvolent societies to accomplish ; 
besides, it is perfectly a national business, and claims na* 
tlonal interference, equally with the captivity of oui* sailoi^ 



58 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

in Algiers. The most successful, economical, politic^ 
and just method of eifecting this object would, perhaps, 
be to institute a board of commissioners, with authority 
to redeem every individual satisfactorily ascertained to be 
legally free, at a fair appraisal of the common value of a 
similar slave. Inquiries might be made in those dis- 
tricts where many coloured persons are known to have 
been kidnapped, and all possessors of slaves might be re- 
quired to report the names, ages, and origin of their pos- 
session, of all the coloured persons in their custody, un- 
der legal affirmation, to the clerk of such county, to be 
transmitted by them to some department designated for 
the purpose in each state. The most of the present hold- 
ers of these stolen men^ probably acquired possession of 
them as innocently as they do of legal slaves, and an at- 
tempt by coercioH, although justifiable v/ith respect to 
the captive, would render the enterprise abortive, through 
evasion, and probably would be more expensive if suc- 
Gfessful. 

It is my impression, that the introduction of slaves for 
sale into almost every state in the union, is prohibited by 
specific statutes, and if an annual inspection and register- 
ing of all slaves were enforced, it would guarantee a com- 
pliance with such laws in a most effectual manner, and 
dissolve the man-hunting fraternity at once. 

I shall close this subject, which indeed " is almost too 
deep and awful to look into,^''^ by declaring my solemn 
and decided conviction, that the abstract relative princi- 
ples of moral and political justice ; the sacred axioms of 
our Declaration of Independence, and of our Constitution, 
as well as sound policy and prudence, obligate this na- 
tion, most unequivocally, to ransom every human crea- 
ture held in lawful bondage for life, against his will^ 
without accusation of crime ; at an equitable valuation of 
his worth to the possessor under existing laws, within the 

* An expression of the late sagacious and inflexible patriot, John 
CloptoD, while a representative in congress. 



PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 59 

jurisdiction of the republic ; and to place him so nearly 
in a state o^ personal liberty, and the enjoyment of his na- 
tural and moral rights, as to secure to him the fruits or 
reward of his own labor, the benefits of mental improve- 
ment, and exemption from corporeal laceration. I do not 
consider it to be our duty to grant them a participation in 
the ai;?7 privileges of citizenship ;*-^but, they have an 
incontestible claim to the protection df the laws, and to 
the common privileges of aliens and strangers, or at least 
of prisoners of war, so far as is compatible with the pub^ 
lie peace and welfare. They are created a distinct race 
of people, and the designs of the Author of Nature ought 
not to be thwarted, by permitting their conjugal commix- 
ture with a race physically different. Without examining 
the problematical question of the inherent physical or mo- 
ral superiority of either in the scale of being, (which is not 
relevant to the present subject,f ) I must affirm, that in 
my humble view, there is both a moral and political pro- 
priety in prohibiting by energetic laws, the sexual com- 
merce between the descendants of Europe and Africa, ei- 
ther by marriage, slavery^ or otherwise. The extinction 
of slavery would promote this purpose far more than its 
toleration. Uncontrolled slavery, as facts have manifested, 
in the United States as well as the West Indies, facilitates 
and protects licentiousness, and a species of brutal de- 
bauchery, the consequences of which are deplorable and 
afflicting beyond description.^ 



* It would be equally as a^)surd to do this, as it would to import 
2,000,000 prisoners of war from Turkey or China, and make citi- 
zens of theK>. 

f " It is not for us to inquire why, in the creation of mankind, 
the inhabitants of the several parts of the earth, were distinguished 
by a difference in feature or complexion. It is sufficient to know, 
that all are the work of an Almighty Hand." 

\From the first section of the Premnble to the Pennsylvania act for 
the Abolition of Slavery, before referred to.^ 

I M'Gurran Coulon, in his " Obsewations on the Insurrection of 
the Negroes in the Island of St, Domingo," read before the National 
Assembly of France, attributes the troubles of that island, " above 
all, to the injustice of which the whites have been guilty, in refusing 



60 PORTRAITURE 0F SLAVERY* 

It was a wise sentiment of the late Dr. Benjamin Rush, 
that " Nothing can be politically right that is moraili/ 
wrong ; and that no necessity can sanctify a law that is 
Contrary to equity.'''' It is morally and politically wrong 
both, (and without necessity too,) that an innocent, '''' fee-^ 
hie and untutored people'''"^ should be detained by a pow- 
er/ul and enlightened people, professing superior honour 
and justice, in a state of beastly^ unwilling, unrequited 
servitude, and indescribable moral and physical degrada- 
tion ! But let not the fell stigma be attached entirely to 
the present retainers of the slaves. Every citizen of the 
republic, entitled to the right of suffrage, is responsible 
for his proportionable quota of the miseries inflicted on 
the defenceless Africans, in our privileged country. Hu- 
man nature is such, that a large proportion of men, will 
improve every means within their reach, for advancing their 
fortunes, indulged by political laws. In this country the 
laws emanate primitively from the people. Tke outrage 
upon the rights of our present slave population originated 
in Africa. Our laws have^ from their infancy, until re- 
cently, sanctioned the perpetration of that outrage, in Af- 
rica, by permitting its principles and products to be trans- 
ferred to, and adopted in, our own country ; and they 
still sanction their continuance. Laws ought to be re- 
sponsible for their own operations and results. If a law 
were enacted authorizing the sale of all the debtors now 



to let the mulattos partake of the blessings of liberty." This was 
evidently one oi the ch\e{ proximaie causes; — but the primitive ra- 
dical origin of those irapiacable confiicts between different shades of 
colour, may be traced to the miserable fafal policy which permitted 
the production of those shades. " The white father falls a victim to 
the unnatural rage of his mulatto son." " In a country where it is 
by no means unusual for (he known children of the Planter to un- 
dergo all the hardships, and the ignominy of slavery, in common 
with the most degraded class of mortals, is it there we are to seek 
for instances of filial affection ?" 

[Inquiry into the Causes of the Insurrection of the Negroes in St 
Dotningo.] 

* Recent message of the President of the United States to Con- 
gress, alluding to the red natives of America. 



FORIRAXTURE OF SLAVERY. '^l 

in prison in the United States, for unconditional and per, 
petual servitude, with their posterity, and they should be 
accordingly sold, it would be morally unjust, with respect 
to the purchasei's, but not the slaves, to proclaim an imme- 
diate emancipation, without restoring the purchase money: 
that is, it would be unjust not to restore it. Hence the 
people of the United Strites, considered collectively as a 
nation, having confirmed and legalized the transfer, (or 
abdication) of the assumed power of African despots and 
banditti, to their assigns in America, and now holding the 
sovereignty over the laws in their own hands, are the master 
aggressors upon the victims of those savage tyrants, and 
are bound to make them appropriate reparation. While 
justice is rendered to the slave, remuneration is due to 
the holder, for the loss he sustains in consequence of his 
prior confidence of the continuation of his legal power 
over him. It would be necessary and right, probably, 
until several successive rising generations shall have been 
moralized by education, that the government should re- 
tain, or leave with their present possessors a rational and 
definite civil guardianship over the persons of these nation- 
. ^il prisoners. The redemption of the existing population of 
slaves would preclude the necessity of purchasing any of 
their descendants ; and thus the blessings of freedom and 
moral improvement might be guaranteed to unknown mil- 
lions of unborn members of the human family. As the 
interests of the southern white population, would be vital- 
ly benefited, by the accomplisliment of this object, even 
if they were to consummate it, without the co-operation of 
the northern states, the additional impulse of humanity 
cannot fail to influence their unanimous assent and a gene- 
rous compromise. Such an act of national magnanimity, 
beneficence and justice, would diffuse joy and admiration 
am.ongst all colours and all nations. There would be no 
murmuring. It might be effected without making any 
man feel the poorer for it ; and if it did, that is no excuse 
for injustice and oppression. A great proportion of the 
necessary sum might be raised from duties on the import- 
ed products of the labor of slaves, whicli are generally 
luxuries, as rum, sugar, coffee, &c. ; and the amount of 
aU the funds heretofore raised, or to be raised, from the 



62 PORTRAITURE OF SLAVERY. 

taxation of slaves, is justly due to them, for this purpose; 
for they have resulted exclusively from the products of 
their toil and sweat. It is both the right and the duty of 
the citizens of the north to unite with their brethren in 
the south, in washing away this obnoxious stain upon 
the national character.* Let the public will and honor 
be consulted ; let the national voice be elicited by univer- 
sal public meetings, and concentrated, so as to vibrate with 
irresistible effect, in the sanctuaries of freedom and justice. 
Then may the sable Africo- American, who shook his 
manacles at the conservators of the rights of man, while 
he was dragged through the city of Liberty, raise his un- 
fettered liands, and again exclaim, 

'^ Hail Columbia, happy land, 
Hail ye heroes, heaven-born band." 

Then, and not till then, may the American Eagle ex- 
pand his genial wings, and proclaim to an applauding 
■world, with unalloyed truths that 

" The sons of Columbia shall ne'er be slaves, 

While the earth bears a plant, or the sea rolls its waves," 



* Since having written this sentence, I have read the speech of 
Mr. Randolph in the house of representatives, on the subject of con- 
stitutional compromise, in which, alluding to the words " tlvrm- 
fourths of all other persons," made uae of in the constitution, ia 
order that the statute book should not be stained with the name 
slave, he said, " he wished to God our consciences were not stained." 



RESISTLESS APPEAL TO THE HUMAN HEART. 



OH, for a lodge in some vast wilderness. 

Some boundless contiguity of shade, 

Where rumour of oppression and deceit, 

Of unsuccessful or successful war, 

Might never reach me more ! My ear is pain'd, 

My soul is sick with ev'ry day's report 

Of wrong and outrage with which earth is fill'd. 

There is no flesh in man's obdurate heart ; 

It does not feel for man. The nat'ral bond 

Of brodierhood is sever'd, as the flax 

That falls asunder at the touch of fire. 

He finds his fellow guilty of a skin 

Not colour'd like his own ; and having pow'r 

T' inforce the wrong, for such a worthy cause 

Dooms and devotes him as his lawful prey. 

Lands intersected by a narrow frith 

Abhor each other. Mountains interposed, 

Make enemies of nations, who had else. 

Like kindred drops, been mingled into one. 

Thus man devotes his brother, and destroys ; 

And worse than all, and most to be deplor'd 

As human nature's broadest, foulest blot. 

Chains him, and tasks him, and exacts his sweat 

With stripes, that mercy, with a bleeding heart. 

Weeps when she sees inflicted on a beast. 

Then what is man ! And what man seeing this, 

And having human feelings, does not blush 

And hang his head, to think himself a man ? 

I would not have a slave to till my ground. 

To carry me, to fan me while I sleep, 

And tremble when I wake, for all the wealth 

That sinews bought and sold have ever earn'd. 

No : dear as freedom is, and in my heart's 

Just estimation priz'd above all price ; 

I had much rather be myself the slave, 

And wear the bonds, than fasten them on him, 

CoWPER^ 



«s-si«^ 



A 



PICTURE OF AFRICA 



AT HOME, 



HAVING sketched, as faithfully as our capacities 
atid means would permit, a general view of sable Africa, 
while on an urged, but reluctant visit amongst her fair- 
faced neighbors, and of the sort of cheer presented to 
her palate ; it is hoped that, to the greatest proportion of 
our patrons, (if to any) a slight perspective miniature of 
her physiognomy at home, and of the welcome festivities 
of which she invites her -white jjfuests, (faint and -weary) 
to partake, at her own table, and under her own tree, will 
not be unacceptable. 

Notwithstanding the interesting journal of the Travels 
of Mungo Park, in the Interior of Africa, in 1795-6 7, is 
probably already familiar to every considerable reader^ 
several incidents have been culled and here connected, 
with a conviction that the repetition of their perusal, if not 
always new, will be always gratifying and instructive. 

The first considerable Province of Africa, ihrough 
which Mr. Park travelled, is inhabited by " the Mandin- 
goes, who, generally speaking, says he, are of a mild^ 
sociable, and obliging disposition, " 

*' I was told that a Mandingo master can neither de^ 
privehis slave of life, nor sell him to a^ stranger, widiout 
first calling a palaver on his conduct ; or in other w©rd^ 

I 



6i6 PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 

bringing him to a public trial. But this degree of protec- 
tion IS extended oniy to the native or domestic slave." 

On the arrival of Park at Fatteconda, the Capital of 
Bondou, he was invited to the presence of the king, who 
having entertained him with great complaisance and hos- 
pitality, " observed, that his women were very desirous 
of seeing him, and requested that he would favour them 
with a visit." He describes his interview with these royal 
personages thus : 

" An attendant was ordered to conduct me ; and I had 
no sooner entered the court appropriated to the ladies, 
than the whole seraglio surrounded me ; some begging 
for physic, some for amber ; and all of them desirous of 
trying tliat great African specific, blood-letting. They 
were ten or twelve in number, most of them young and 
handsome, and wearing on their heads ornaments of gold, 
and beads of amber. 

" They rallied me with a good deal of gaiety on differ- 
ent subjects ; particularly upon the whiteness of my skin, 
and the prominency of my nose. They insisted that both 
were artificial. The first, they said, was produced when I was 
an infant by dipping me in milk ; and they insisted that my 
nose had been pinched every day, till it had acquired its 
present unsightly and unnatural conformation. On my 
part, without disputing my own deformity, I paid them 
many compliments on African beauty. I praised the 
glossy jet of their skins, and the lovely depression of their 
noses ; but they said that flattery, or (as they emphatically 
termed it) honey -mouthy was not esteemed in Bondou. 
In return, however, for my company or my compliments 
(to which, by the way, they seemed not so insensible as 
they affected to be) they presented me with a jar of honey 
and some fish, which were sent to my lodging ; and I was 
desired to come again to the king a little before sunset." 

Mr. Park states, tliat he found many schoois in his pro- 
gress through the country, and observed with pleasure, 
the great docility and submissive deportment of the chil- 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 67 

dren, and heartily wished they had better instructors and 
a purer rehgion. 

" The industry of the Foulahs of Bondou in the occu- 
pations of pasturage and agriculture, is every where re- 
markable. Their herds and flocks are numerous, and 
they are opulent in a high degree, and enjoy all the neces- 
saries of life in the greatest profusion. They display great 
skill in the management of their cattle, making them ex- 
tremely gentle by kindness and familiarity." 

After having arrived in one of the villages, and being 
at a loss how to procure food, Mr. Park describes the 
voluntary kindness of a female slave, as follows : 

*' Towards evening, as I was sitting upon the Bentang, 
chewing straws, an old female slave passing by with a 
basket upon her head, asked me if 1 had got my dinner* 
As I thought she only laughed at me, I gave her no an- 
swer ; but my boy, who was sitting close by, answered 
for me, and told her, that the king^s people had robbed 
me of all my money. On hearing this, the good old 
woman, with a look of unaffected benevolence, immedi- 
ately took the basket from her head, and shewing me that 
it contained ground-nuts, asked me if I could eat them ; 
being answered in the affirmative, she presented me with 
a few handfuls, and walked away before I had time to 
thank her for this seasonable supply." 

Mr. Park describes his arrival at the town of Jumbo, 
in company with one of the natives who had been several 
years absent, thus : 

" On entering the town, the singing man began an ex- 
tempore song in praise of the blacksmith, extolling his 
courage in having overcome so many difficulties, and con= 
eluding with strict injunctions to his friends, to dress him 
plenty of victuals. 

" When we arrived at the blacksmith's place of resi- 
dence, we dismounted and fired our muskets. The 



(58 PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME, 

meeting between him and his relations was very tender j 
for these rude children of nature, free from restraint, dis- 
play their emotions in the strongest and most expressive 
manner. Amidst these transports, the blacksmith's aged 
mother was led forth, leaning upon a staff. Every one 
made way for her, and she stretched out her hand' to bid 
her son welcome. Being totally blind, phe stroked his 
hands, arms, and face, with great care, and seemed 
highly delighted that her latter days were blessed by his 
return, and that her ears once more heard the music of 
his voice. From this interview, I was fully convinced, 
that whatever difierence there is between the Negro and 
the European, in the conformation of th^ nose, and the 
colour of the skin, there is none in the genuine sympa- 
thies and characteristic feelings of our common nature. 

" When all the people present had seated themselves, 
the blacksmith was desired by his father to give them 
some account of his adventures, &:c. In the latter part 
of his narration, he had frequently occasion to mention 
me; and after many strong expressions concerning my 
kindness to hirn, he pointed out the place where I sat, and 
exclaimed, ciffiUe ihi siring^ " see him sitting there." Li 
a moment all eyes were turned upon me ; I appeared like 
a being dropped from the clouds, &c.^tlie blacksmith 
assured them that 1 was perfectly inoffensive, and would 
hurt nobody, &:c. but many of them were still very suspi- 
cious, and M'hen by accident I happened to move myself, 
or look at the young children, their mothers would scam- 
per off with them with the greatest precipitation. In a 
few hours, however, they all became reconciled to me. 

"With these worthy people I spent the- remainder of 
that and the ensuing day, in feasting and merriment, &c,'* 

Having yielded to despair, and fainted upon the sapd^ 
for a few moments, while passing through a barren wil- 
derness, exhausted with fatigue, hunger and thirst, he 
renewed his efforts, and arrived at a Foulah village called 
Shrilla. He continues his narrative thus i 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOJVIE. 69 

** I had some doubts about entering it ; but, my horse 
being very much fatigued, and the day growing hot, not 
to mention the pangs of hunger which began to assail me, 
I resolved to venture, and accordingly rode up to the 
Dooty's house, where I was unfortunately denied admit- 
tance, and could not obtain even a handful of corn, ei- 
ther for myself or my horse. Turning from this inhos- 
pitable door, I rode slowly out of the town, and perceiv- 
ing some low scattered huts without the walls, 1 directed 
my route towards them ; knowing, that in Africa, as well 
as in Europe, hospitality does not always prefer the 
highest dwellings. At the door of one of these huts, an 
old motherly-looking woman sat spinning cotton ; I made 
signs to her that I was hungry, and inquired if she had any 
victuals with her in the hut. She immediately laid down 
her distaff, and desired me, in Arabic, to come in. 
When I. had seated myself upon the floor, she sat before 
me a dish of kouskous, that had been left the preceding 
night, of which I made a tolerable meal, and in return for 
this kindness I gave her one of my pocket handkerchiefs, 
begging, at the same time, a little corn for my horse, which 
she readily brought me. 

" Overcome with joy at so unexpected a deliverance, I 
lifted up my eyes to heaven, and whilst my heart swelled 
with gratitude, I returned thanks to that gracious and 
bountiful Being, wdiose power had supported me under so 
many dangers, and had now spread me a table in the wil- 
derness." 

Having penetrated the African continent nearly to the 
waters of the Niger, the chief object of his mission, he 
passed through a small town called Wawra, the Dooty of 
wdiich, he says, gave him a " hearty welcome.''^ He con- 
tinues : 

" I laid myself down and slept soundly for about two 
hours. The curiosity of the people would not allow me 
to sleep any longer. — They had seen my saddle and bri- 
dle, and assembled in great numbers, to learn who I was 
and whence I came. The Dootv assured them that I was 



7U , PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 

a white many but he v(3.s convinced, from my appearance^ 
that I was a very poor one, 

" In the course of the day several women, hearing that 
I was going to Sego, (a town on the Niger, containing 
30,000 inhabitants,) came and begged me to inquire of 
Mansong, the king, what was become of their children. 
One woman in particular, told me, that her son's name 
was Mamadee ; that he was no heathen ; but, prayed to 
God, morning and evening, and had been taken from 
her about three years ago by Mansong's army, since 
which she had never heard of him. She said she often 
dreamed about him, and begged me* if I should see hirri 
in Bambarra, or in my own country, to tell him that his 
mother and sister were still aHve, 

*' I reached Dyngyee about noon, buttheDooty and 
most of the inhabitants had gone into the fields to culti- 
vate corn. An old Foulah observing me wandering about 
the town, desired me to come to his hut, where I was 
well entertained ; and tke Dooty, when he returned, sent 
me some victuals for myself, and corn for my horse, 

" In the morning, when I was about to depart, my 
landlord, with a great deal of diffidence, begged me to 
give him a lock of my hair. He had been told, he said, 
that white men's hair m.ade a saphie, that would give to 
the possessor all the knowledge of white men. My land- 
lord's thirst for learning was such, that, with cutting and 
pulling, he cropped one side of my head pretty closely. 

*' I reached a small town called Wassiboo, about 12 
o'clock. Cultivation is carried on here on a very exten- 
sive scale ; and as the natives themselves express it, 
*' hunger is never known." In cultivating the soil the 
men and women work together.'* 

On Mr. Park's arrival at one of the ferries of Sego, for 
the purpose of crossing the Niger to see the king, he says, 
*' we found a great number waiting for a passage ; — they 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 7l 

looked at me with silent wonder. The view of this ex- 
tensive city ; the numerous canoes upon the river ; the 
crowded population, and the cultivated state ot the sur- 
rounding country, formed altogether a prospect of civili- 
zation and magnificence, which I little expected to find in 
the bosom of Africa. While waiting for a passage, the 
king having been informed that a white man was coming 
to see him, immediately sent over one of his chief men, 
who informed me that the king could not possibly see me, 
until he knew what had brought me into his country, and 
that I must not presume to cross the river without the king's 
permission. He therefore advised me to lodge at a dis- 
tant village, to which he pointed, for the night, and said, 
that in the morning he would give me further instructions 
how to conduct myself. This was very discouraging. — 
However, as there was no remedy, I set off for the vil- 
lage, where I found, to my great mortification, that no 
person would admit me into his house. 

" I was regarded with astonishment and fear, and was 
obliged to sit all day without victuals under the shade of 
a tree ; and the wind rose, and there was great appearance 
of heavy rain ; and the wild beasts are so very numerous 
in the neighborhood, that I sho&ld have been under the 
necessity of climbing up the tree and resting amongst the 
branches : About sunset, however, as I was about pro- 
posing to pass the night in this manner, and had turned 
my horse loose that he might graze at liberty, a woman 
returning from the labours of the field, stopped to observe 
me, and perceiving that I was weary and dejected, inquir- 
ed into my situation, which I briefly explained to her; 
whereupon, with looks of great compassion, she took up 
my saddle and l^ridle and told m@ to follow her. Having 
conducted me into her hut, she lighted up a lamp, spread 
a mat on the floor, and told me I might remain there foi' 
the night. Finding that I was hungry, she said she would 
procure me something to eat. She accordingly went out 
and returned in a short time with a very fine fish, which 
having caused to be half broiled upon some embers, she 
gave me for supper. The rites of hospitality being thus 
performed to a stranger in distress^ &c." *' they resumed 



72 PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 

their task of spinning cotton and lightened their labouf 
with songs, one of which was composed extempore, for I 
was myseh" the subject of it. It was sung by one of the 
young women, the rest joining in a sort of chorus : the 
air was sweet and plaintive, and the words literally trans- 
lated were these : 

" The winds roared and the rains fell : 
The poor wliile uian. faint and weary, 
Came and sat under our tree. — 
He has no mother to bring him milk ; 
No wife to grind his corn. 

CHORUS. 

Let us pity the while man ; 

No motner has he to bring him milk, 

No wife to grind his corn." 

" Trifling as this recital may appear to the reader ^ 
to a person in my situation, the circumstance was affect- 
ing in the highest degree. I was oppressed with such 
unexpected kindness and sleep fled from my eyes. In 
the morning I presented my compassionate landlady with 
two of the four brass buttons which remained on my 
waistcoat, the only recompence I could make her. 

" July 2ist. I continued in the village all the day in 
conversation with the natives, who came in crowds to see 
me ; but was rather uneasy that no message had arrived 
from the king ; the more so as the people began to whis-^ 
per, that Mansong had received some accounts of me, 
from the Moors and Slatees, (free black slave merchants) 
residing at Sego. I learnt that many consultations had 
been held with the king, concerning my reception and 
disposal ; and some of the villagers frankly told me, that 
I had many enemies, and must expect no iV.vour. 

'* About eleven o'clock the next day, a messenger ar^ 
rived from the king, but gave me verv little satisfaction. 
He inquired particularly if I had brought any present, and 
seemed much disappointed when he was told that I had 
been robbed of every thing by the Moors. When I pro- 
posed to go along with him, he told me to stop until the 
afternoon, ^vhen the king would send for me. 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 73 

"" In the afternoon of the following da}'-, another mes* 
senger arrived from Mansong, with a bag in his hands. 
He told me it was the king's pleasure that I should depart 
forthwith from the vicinage of Sego, but that Mansong, 
wisliing to relieve a white man in distress, had sent me 
five thousand kowries,* to enable me to purchase provi- 
sions in the course of my journey; the messenger added, 
that if my intentions were really to proceed to Jenn6, he 
had orders to accompany me as a guide to Sansanding." 

The Dutchess of Devonshire^ a lady distinguished both 
for her beauty and accomplishments^ was so highly pleased 
with the above specimen of African poetry and kindness.^ 
that she made a version of it with her ownpen^ as follows^ 
and had it set to music by an emiftent composer. 

*' A NEGRO SONG, 

« FROM MR. PARK'S TRAVELS. 
I. 

" The loud wind roar'd, the rain fell fast ; 
The White Man yielded to the blast : 
He sat him down beneath our tree, 
For weary, faint, and sad was be j 
And ah, no wife or mother's care, 
For him the jnilk or com prepare : 

CHORUS. • 

The White Man shall our pity share ; 
Alas, no wife, or mother's care, 
For him the milk or corn prepare. 

n. 

The storm is o'er, the tempest past , 
And Mercy's voice has hush'd the blast ; 
The wind is heard in whispers low; 
The White Man far away must go ;— 
But ever in his heart will bear, 
Remembrance of the Negros' care. 

CHOEUS. 

Go, White Man, go ; — but with thee bear 
The Negro's wish, the Negro's pray'r, 
Remembrance of the Negro's care," 



* A specie3 of little shells used in Africa as currency in place of 
money. 



74 PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 

" A little before sunset, I descended on the northwest 
side of a ridge of hills, and as I was looking about for a 
convenient tree, under which to pass the night, for I had 
no hopes of reaching any town, I descended into a delight- 
ful valley, and soon afterwards' arrived at a romantic vil- 
lage called Kooma. 

" I soon found myself surrounded by a circle of the 
harmless villagers. They asked me a thousand questions 
about my country, and in return for my information 
brought com and milk for myself, and grass for my horse; 
kindled a fire in the hut where I was to sleep, and appeared 
very anxious to serve me.*' 

Having been robbed by banditti, and stripped quite na= 
ked, while passing through a vast wilderness, he says — ■ 

** Some of them went away with my horse, and the re- 
mainder stood considering, whether they should leave me 
quite naked, or allow me something to slielter me from 
the sun. Humanity at last prevailed ; they returned me 
the worst of the two shirts, and a pair of trowsers, and as 
they went away one of them, threw back my hat," 

Notwithstanding this humanity, their conduct, taken 
together, was certainly- savage and unjust, towards a poor 
defenceless white man ; yet, not so cruel or barbarous as 
if they had shot him, or cut off his head, or bound him to. 
a post and left him, or dragged him till he was dead at the 
tails of their horses, or made a slave during life of him. ^ 

In this situation, as Mr. Park was about to yield to des- 



* It is a notorious and afflicting truth, that in the United States, 
the head of a poor black man has been cut off 7vith impunity, by a 
white man (or master;) that black men have been wantonly shot by 
white men ; and that a fr^e black man (whom I have seen myself,) 
was hoppled, and being unsuccessfully offered for sale as a slave, 
was boun<i to a post in the winter, and left without food until his feet 
were frozen, where he would probably have perished, had he not 
extricated himself by his own struggles. 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 75 

pair, expecting to perish, he derived consolation and fresh 
courage, from beholding the beauties of the works of God, 
in vegetation, and consequent religious reflections- — 

" I started up, (says he,) and disregarding both hunger 
and fatigue, travelled forwards, assured that relief was at 
hand; and I was not disappointed. In a short time I came 
to a small village, &c. and at sunset arrived at Sibiloodoo. 
When I entered the town the people gathered round me, 
and followed me into the balloon, where I was presented 
to the Dooty or chief man, who is here called miansa, 
which usually signifies king. I related to the mansa the 
circumstance of my having been robbed of my horse and 
apparel. He continued smoaking his pipe all the time I 
was speaking ; but, I had no sooner finished, than, taking 
the pipe from his mouth, and tossing up the sleeve of his 
cloak with an indignant air, " sit down, (said he,) you 
shall have every thing restored to you — I have sworn it" 
■ — and then turning to an attendant, " give the white man 
(said he) a draught of water ; and with the first light of 
the morning, go over the hills, and inform the Dooty of 
Bammakoo, that a poor white man, the king of Bambar- 
ra's stranger, has been robbed by the king of Fooladoo's 
people." 

" I little expected in my forlorn condition, to meet with 
a man who could thus feel for my sufferings, I heartily- 
thanked the mansa for his kindness, and accepted his in- 
vitation to remain with him until the return of the messen» 
ger. I was conducted into a hut, and had some victuals 
sent me ; but the crowd of people which assembled to 
see me, all of whom commiserated my misfortunes, afid 
vented imprecations against the Foulahs, (by whom hq 
was robbed,) prevented me from sleeping until pastmid« 
night." 

** Sept. 6th — Two people arrived from Sibiloodooj 
bringing with them my horse and clothes." 

On taking leave of his ** hospitable landbrdj'' wh© hM 



76 PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME.. 

entertained him at Wonda, through a course of feven 
which kept him sick for nine days, Mr. Park says — 

" When I was about to depart, he presented me with 
his spear, as a token of remembrance, and a leather bag 
to contain my clotiies." 

While at the village of Nemacoo, where the scarcity 
of corn was such that the people actually appeared to be 
starving^ he says — 

*■' It rained hard all day, and the people kept themselves 
in their huts. In the afternoon 1 was visited by a negro, 
(Modi Lemina Taura,) a great trader, who, suspecting 
my distress, brought me some victuals, and promised to 
conduct me to his own house at KinyetO' the day fol- 
lowing." 

" On my arrival at Kamaha, situated at the bottom of 
some rocky hills, where the inhabitants collect gold in 
considerable quantities, I was conducted to the house of 
a Bushreen, (Mahomedan) named Karfa Taura, the bro- 
ther ofhim to whose hospitality I was indebted at Kinyeto, 
He was collecting a coffle of slaves, with a view to sell 
them to the Europeans on the Gambia as soon as the 
rains should be over. I found him sitting in his balooii 
surrounded by several Slatees, who proposed to join the 
coffle. He was reading to them from an Arabic book, 
and inquired with a smile if I understood it ? Being an- 
swered in the negative, he desired of the Slatees to bring 
the little curious book, which had been brought from the 
west country. On opening this volume, I was surprised 
and delighted to find it our Book of Common Prayer ; and 
Karfa expressed great joy to hear that I could read it ; for 
someof the Slatees who had seen the Europeans on the coast, 
and observing the colour of my skin, which was now be- 
. come very yellow from sickness, my long beard, ragged 
clothes, and extreme poverty, were unwilling to admit 
that I was a white man, and told Karfa that they suspected 
I was^ some Arab in disguise. Karfa, however, perceiving 
that I could read this book, had no doubt concerning me. 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 77 

and kindly promised me every assistance in his power, at 
the same time he informed me, that it was impossible to 
cross the Jalonka wilderness for many months yet to come, 
as no less than eight rapid rivers, he said, lay in the way. 
He added, that he intended to set out himself for Gambia, 
as soon as the rivers were fdrdable, and advised me to stay 
and accompany him. He remarked, that when a caravan 
of the natives could not travel through the country, it was 
idle for a single white man to attempt it. 1 readily admit- 
ted, that such an attempt was an act of rashness, but I 
assured him, that I had now no alternative, for having no 
money to support myself, I must either beg my subsist- 
ence, by travelling from place to place, or perish for want. 
Karfa now looked on me with great earnestness, and in- 
quired if I could eat the common victuals of the country, 
assuring me, that he had never before seen a white man, 
lije added, that if I would remain with Lim until the rains 
were over, he would give me plenty of victuals in the 
meantime, and a hut to sleep in, and that after he had con- 
ducted me in safety to the Gambia, I might make him 
what return I thought proper. I asked him if the value 
of one prime slave would satisfy him. He answered in 
the affirmative, and immediately ordered one of the huts 
to be swept for my accomm.odation. Thus was I delivered, 
by the friendly care of this benevolent negro, from a situ- 
ation truly deplorable. Distress and famine pressed hard 
upon me ; I had before me, the gloomy wilderness of ' 
Jallonkadoo, where the traveller sees no habitation for five 
successive days. I had observed, at a distance^ the rapid 
course of the river Kokaro, and had almost marked out 
the place where I was doomed, I thought,, to perish, when 
this friendly negro stretched out his hospitable hand for 
my relief. 

" In the hut which was appropriated for me, I was pro- 
vided with a mat to sleep on, an earthen jar for holding 
water, and a small calabash to drink out of, and Karfa 
sent me from his own dwelling two meals a day, and 
ordered his slaves to supply ine with lire-wood and 
water, '^ 



73 iPICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 

Mr. Park remarks, that he here recovered from hi^ 
tormenting fever, which kept hi a in a hngering preca- 
rious condition for five weeks ; that his benevolent land- 
lord, in the meantime, came daily to enquire after his 
health ; and that the benevolent and simple manners of the 
negroes^ and the perusal ofKarfa'^s little volume, greatly 
contributed to his convalescence,^'' 

He proceeds : " Many of the Slatees who resided at 
Kamalia, having spent all their money, and become in a 
great measure dependent on Karfa's hospitality, beheld 
me with an eye of envy, and invented many ridiculous 
and trifling stories to lessen me in Karfa's esteem, and in 
the beginning of December, a Sera-Woolli Slatee, with 
five slaves, arrived from Sego; this man too, spread a 
number of malicious reports concerning me, but Karfa 
paid no attention to them, and continued to shew me the 
same kindness as formerly. As I was one day conversing 
with the slaves which this Slatee brought, one of them 
begged of me to give him some victuals, I told him I was 
a stranger and had none to give. He replied, " I gave 
you victuals when you was hungry. Have you forgot 
the man who brought you milk at Karrankalla? But, 
added he with a sigh, the irons lucre not then upon my 
iegs.^^ I immediately recollected him, and begged some 
ground-nuts from Karfa to give him as a return for his form- 
er kindness. He told me that he had been taken by the 
Bambarrans, the day after the battle at Joka, and sent t© 
Sego, where he had been purchased by his present master-, 
who was carrying him down to Kajaaga." 

Mr. Park observes, that his residence at Kamalia, af- 
forded him *' an opportunity not to be neglected," of 
extending his observations on the climate and the produc- 
tions of the country ; and of acquiring a more perfect 
knowledge of the natives, &c. and proceeds to lay before 
his readers, the result of his researches and inquiries ; 
from which the following sketches of the national character 
and morals of the more sable inhabitants of Africa, are 
copied : 



PICTURE or AFRICA Ji'T HOME. 7? 

" All the Negro nations that fell under my observation, 
though divided into a number of petty independent states, 
subsist chiefly by the same means, live nearly in the 
same temperature, and possess a wonderful similarity of 
disposition. The Mandingoes, in particular, are a very 
gentle race, cheerful in their disposition, inquisitive, cre- 
dulous, simple, and fond of flattery. Perhaps the most 
prominent defect in their character, was that insurmount- 
able propensity, which the reader must have observed to 
prevail in all classes of them, to steal from me the few 
effects I was possessed of. For this part of their conduct 
no complete justification can be offered, because, theft is 
a crime in their own estimation ; and it must be observed, 
that they are not habitually and generally guilty of it towards 
each other. This, however, is an important circumstance: 
in mitigation ; and before we pronounce them a more de- 
praved people than any other, it were well to consider, 
whether the lower order of people in any part of Europe 
would have acted, under similar circumstances, with 
greater honesty towards a stranger, than the Negroefe 
acted towards me. It must not be forgotten -that the 
laws of the country afforded me no protection ; that every 
one was permitted to rob me with impunity ; and finally 
that some part of my eflfects were of as great value, m 
the estimation of the Negroes, as pearls and diamonds 
would have been in the eyes of an European. Let us 
suppose a black merchant of Hindostan had found his way 
into England with a box of jewels at his back, and the 
laws of the kingdom afforded him no security ; in such a 
case the wonder would be, not that the stranger was rob- 
bed of any part of his riches, but that any part was left 
for a second depredator. Such, on sober reflection, is the 
judgment I have formed, concerning the pilfering disposi- 
tion of the Mandingo Negroes towards myself Notwith- 
standing I was so great a sufferer by it, I do not consider 
that their natural sense of justice was perverted or extin- 
guished ; it was overpowered only for the moment, by 
the strength of a temptation which it required no common 
virtue to resist.* 



* Mr. Park here offers to the contemplation of governments, and 
mankind in general, a most beautiful illustration of a truth of the 



80 PICTURE 01 AFRICA AT HOME. 

'' On the other hand, as some counterbalance to the de- 
pravity in their nature, allowing it to be such, it is im- 
possible for nie to forget the disinterested charity, and 
tender solicitude, with which many of these poor heathens, 
from the sovereign of Sego, to the poor women who re- 
ceived me at different times in their cottages, when I was 
perishing with hunger, sympathized with me in my suf- 
ferings, relieved my distresses, and contributed to my 
safety. This acknowledgment, however, is perhaps more 
particularly due to the female part of the nation. Among 
the men, as the reader must have seen, my reception, 
though generally kind, was sometimes otherwise. It va- 
ried according to the various tempers of those to whom I 
made application. The hardness of avarice in some, the 
blindness of bigotry in others, had closed up the avenues 
to compassion ; but, I do not recollect a single instance of 
hard-heartedness towards me in the women. In all my 
wanderings and wretchedness, I found them uniformly 
kind and compassionate ; and I can truly say, as my pre- 
decessor, Mr. Ledyard, has eloquently said before me — ■ 
••' To a woman, I never addressed myself in the language 
*' of decency and friendship, without receiving a decent and 
" friendly answer. If I was hungiy, or thirsty, wet, or 
*' sick, they did not hesitate, like the men, to perform a 
" generous action. In so free and so kind a manner did 
" they contribute to my relief,' that if I was dry I drank 
" the sweetest draught ; and if I was hungry, I eat the 
" coarsest meal with a double relish," 

" It is surely reasonable to suppose, that the soft and 
amiable sympathy of nature, which was thus spontane- 
ously manifested to me in my distress, is displayed by 
these poor people, as occasion requires, much more 
strongly towards persons of their own nation and neigk- 
borhood, and especially, when the objects of their com- 
passion are endeared to them by the ties of consanguinity. 



greatest magnitude, that the crimes and moral depravity of certain 
portions of civilized society, result chiefly from their deprivation of 
early instruction and mora! knowledge. 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. U\ 

Accordingly, the maternal affection, neither suppressed 
bj the restraints, nor diverted by the solicitudes of ci- 
vilized life, is every where conspicuous among them, and 
creates a correspondent return of tenderness in the child. 
An illustration of this has been given in page 70. *' Strike 
me," said my attendant, " but do not curse my mother." 
The same sentiment I found universally to prevail, and 
observed in all parts of Africa, that the greatest affront 
that could be offered to a negro, was to reflect on her who 
gave him birth. 

" I perceived with great satisfaction, that the maternal 
solicitude extended not only to growth and security of the 
person, but also, in a certain degree, to the improvement 
of the mind of the infant, for one of the first lessons, in 
which the Mandingo women instruct their children, is the 
practice of truth. The reader will probably recollect the 
case of the unhappy mother, whose son was murdered by 
the Moorish banditti at Funingkedy, [see p. 129.] Her 
only consolation, in her uttermost distress, was the reflec- 
tion, that the poor boy, in the course of his blameless 
life, he never told a lie. Such a testimony from a fond 
mother, on such an occasion, must have operated power- 
fully on tlie youthful part of the surrounding spectators. 
It was at once a tribute of praise to the deceased, and a 
lesson to the living," 

Mr. Park observes, that the slaves in Africa, he sup- 
poses, are nearly in the proportion of three to one to the 
freemen ; and are treated with kindness or severity, ac- 
cording to the good or bad disposition of the master ; but 
that custom has established certain rules with regard to 
the treatment of slaves, which it is thought dishonourable 
to violate. He states, that the causes of slavery are I?tr 
heritance, Captivity^ Famine, Insolvency, Crimes. " War, 
says he, is of all others, the most productive source, and 
was probably the origin of slavery." 

In what are called the " plundering or stealing wars,''* 
a few resolute individuals, headed by some person of en- 
tf;rprize and courage, march quietly through the woods, 



8^2 PiCTUIlE OF APRICA AT HOME- 

surprize in the night some unprotected village, and cany 
dOf the inhabitants and their effects before their neighbours 
can come to their assistance. A single individual has been 
known to take his bow and quiver, and proceed in like 
manner, conceahng himself among the bushes, until some 
young or unarmed person passes by. He then, tyger- 
like, springs upon his prey, drags his victim into the 
thicket, and in the night carries hira off as a slave. The 
desolation of war often, but not always, produce the se- 
cond cause of slavery, famine^ in which case a freeman 
becomes a slave to avoid a greater calamity." 

Mr, Park states, that a eoile of thirty-five slaves hav- 
ing been collected at Kamalia, " The long wished- for day 
of our departure was at length arrived, and the Slatees 
having taken the irons from their slaves, assembled with 
them at the door of Karfa's house, where the bundles 
were all tied up, and every one had his load assigned 
him." '' As many of the slaves had remained for many 
years in irons, the sudden exertion of walking quick, with 
heavy loads upon their heads, occasioned spasmodic con- 
tractions of their legs, &c." 

The coffle having nearl}^ reached the coast, Mr. Park 
continues — " But although I was now approaching the 
end of my tedious and toilsome journey, and expected in 
another day to meet with countrymen and friends, I could 
not part for the last lime with my unfortunate fellow-tra- 
vellers, doomed as 1 knew most of them to be, to a life of 
captivity and slavery in a foreign land, without great emo- 
tion. During the peregrination of more than fiA^e hundred 
British miles, exposed to the burning rays of a tropical 
sun, these poor slaves, amidst their own infinitely greater 
sufferings, would commiserate mine, and frequently of 
their own accord, bring water to quench my thirst, and 
at night collect branches and leaves to prepare me a bed 
in the wilderness. We parted with reciprocal regret and 
benediction. My good wishes and prayers were all that 
I could bestow upon them, and it afforded me some con- 
solation to be told that they ^vere sensible I had no more 
to give. 



PICTURE OF AFRICA AT HOME. 83 

*' We readied Fendecunda in the evening, and were 
hospitably received at the house of an aged black female 
called Seniora Camilla, &c. " I lost no time in resuming 
my English dress, and disrobing my cl^in of its venerable 
incumbrance. Karla surveyed me in my British apparel 
with great delight, but regretted exceedingly that I had 
taken off my beard, the loss of which, he said, had con- 
verted me from a man into a boy," " Observing the 
improved state of our manufactures, and our manifest 
superiority in the arts of civilized life, he would some- 
times appear pensive, and exclaim with an involuntary 
sigh, '''■fatajing inta fe?ig ,'''' " Black men are nothing." 
"My narrative now hastens to a conclusion; for on the 
15th, the ship Charlestown, an American vessel, com- 
manded by Mr. Charles Harris, entered the river. She 
€ame for slaves, intending to touch at Goree to fill up, and 
to proceed from thence to South Carolina.^' I therefore 
immediately engaged my passage in this vessel for Ame- 
rica, &c. and embarked at Kaye on the 17th day of 
June." 

In the Appendix to Mr. Park's Journal, by Major Ren- 
nel, he observes, " The Moors appear to possess the 
vices of the Arabs, without their virtues ; and to avail 
themselves of an intolerent religion to oppress strangers % 
whilst the Negroes, especially the Mandingoes, unable to 
comprehend a doctrine, that substitutes opinion or belief 
for the social duties, are content to remain in their hum- 
ble state of ignorance. The hospitality shewn by these 
good people to Mr. Park, a destitute and forlorn stranger j 
raises them very high in the scale of humanity." 

Query. Whether the primitive moral principles and 
habits of Africans are improved by their introduction 
among civilized nations, while retained in their present 
state of captivity, ignorance, and involuntary servitude ? 



i 



ADDITIONAL NOTE. 



SINCE the original of the Portraiture of Slavery was 
composed, a highly respectable meeting, consisting of a con- 
siderable number of the members of our national legislature, 
with many benevolent and intelligent citizens of the District of 
Columbia, has been held in the city of Washington, (on the 
21st Dec. ult.) for the purpose, as expressed by the gentleman 
who presided as chairman, (Mr. Clay,) " of considering the 
propriety and practicability of colonizing- the free''' people " oj 
colour in the United States, and of forming an asylum in rela^ 
Hon to that object.*^ 

As the proceedings of this meeting indicate a flattering pros- 
pect of the consummation of a measure, on which I had re- 
corded my sentiments, and hope* of its adoption, several 
>\^eeks previous to the time that the meeting was announced, 
it is deemed useful and appropriate to annex a sketch of their 
deliberations, as published in the National Intelligencer. 

Extracts from the speech of Mr. Clay, (on taking the 
chair.) 

'I That class of the mixt population of our country was pe- 
culiarly situated. They neither enjoyed the immunities of 
freemen, nor were they subject to the incapacities of slaves, 
but partook in some degree of the qualities of both. From 
their condition, and the unconquerable prejudices resulting 
from their colour, they never could amalgamate with the free 
whites of this country. It was desirable, therefore, as it 
respected them, and the residue of the population of the coun- 



See page 29. I consider it a fortunate circumstance, and one 
which will protect me effectually from the imputation of plagiarism, 
m respect to the similarity of what I had previously written on the 
subject of colonization by " beneficent societies," and the national 
ransom of slaves (see page 58 and 61) to any thing advanced at this 
meeting ; that I had communicated the contents of the original ma- 
nuscript of the preceding work to page 62, except some notes and 
slight alterations, to Roberts Vaux, Esq. one of the members of the 
common council, of the city of Philadelphia, on or previous to the 
SthotDec. 1816— And the fact is made public, in this manner, with 
?ns consent and approbation. 



86 ADDITIONAL NOTE, 

try, to drain thciii off- Various schemes of colonization had 
been thought of, and a part of our own continent, it was sup- 
posed by some, might furnish a suitable establishment for 
them. But for his part, Mr. C. said, he had a decided pre- 
ference for some part of the coast of Africa. There ample 
provision might be made for the colony itself, and it might 
be rendered instrumental to the introduction, into that exten- 
sive quarter of the globe, of the arts, civilization and Chris- 
tianity. There was a peculiar, a moral fitness in restoring 
them to the land of their fathers. And if, instead of the evils 
and sufferings which we had been the innocent cause of inflict- 
ing upon the inhabitants of Africa, we can transmit to her the 
blessing of our arts, our civilization, and our religion, may 
Ave not hqjoe that America will extinguish a great portion of 
that moral debt which she has contracted to that unfortunate 
continent ? Can there be a nobler cause than that which, 
whilst it proposes, &c. contemplates the spreading of the arts of 
civilized life, and the possible redemption from ignorance and 
barbarism of a benighted quarter of the globe ? 

"It was proper and necessary distinctly to state, that he un- 
derstood it constituted no part of the object of this meeting to 
touch or agitate in the slightest degree, a delicate question con- 
nected with another portion of the coloured population of our 
country. It was not propt sed to deliberate upon, or consider 
at all, any question of emancipation, or that Avas connected 
with the abolition of slavery. It was upon that condition 
alone, he was sure, that many gentlemen from the south and 
the west, whom he saw present, had attended, or could be 
expected to co-operate. It was upon that condition, only, 
that he had himself attended." 

Extracts from the speech of Elias B, Caldwell, Esq. of the 
District of Columbia, 

" The more you improve the condition of these people, the 
more you cultivate their minds, the more miserable you make 
them in their present state. You give them a higher relish for 
those privileges which they can never attain, and turn what; 
we intend for a blessing into a curse. No, if they must re- 
main in their present situation, keep them in the lowest state 
of degradation and ignorance. The nearer you bring them to 
the condition of brutes, the better chance do you give them of 
possessing their apathy. Surely, Americans ought to be the 
last people on earth, to advocate such slavish doctrines, to cry 
peace and contentment to those who are deprived of the privi- 
leges of civil liberty. They who have so largely partaken of 
its blessings — who know so well how to estimate its value, 
®'jight to be among the foremost to extend it to others." 



ADDITIONAL NOTE. 8'/ 

These sentiments, it will be readily perceived, clash diam&. 
trically with those which I had previously advanced in page 21^ 
on the subject of extending mental cultivation to the African 
race in this country. And notwithstanding I have no inclina- 
tion to retract the sentiments which I have heretofore had oc- 
casion to express, concerning the practical benevolence and 
ardent zeal of Mr. Caldwell in the cause of religion and hu- 
man happiness ; yet, it is out of my power to unite with him 
in his opinion, of the utility of subjecting men of any colour^ 
or any situation whatever, to '* the loxvest state of degradation 
and ignorance^* and, as near as possible, " to the co7idition of 
brutes.''^ Right education and knowledge, should teach the le- 
gitimate slave fortitude, and the advantages of submission, 
duty, and fidelity ; and should elevate the free man of what- 
ever colour, above the unhallowed crime of despising himself 
for its having been ordained this or that tint, or for its being 
obnoxious to those who have been created with a different co- 
lour, or with none at all. Ask Capt. Paul Cuffee, Princo 
Saunders, and many other well educated and worthy persons 
of African extraction, whether they hate themselves, or whe- 
ther any body else possessing common sense, hates them, be- 
cause they cannot repeal the lav-^s of nature j or because there 
is a political and physical propriety in their being considered 
as foreigners and aliens in our country, 

Mr. Caldwell, having considered the various positions ia 
which it had been respectively proposed to establish the colo- 
ny, and expressing his preference of Africa, enlarged upon the 
greater rmportance of selecting that quarter of the globe, '' in 
the belief and hope of thereby introducing civilization and the 
christian religion, &c." correspondent to the sentiments of Mr. 
Clay. "•' The great movements (said he) and mighty efforts 
in the moral and religious world, seem to indicate some great 
design of Providence on the eve of accomplishment. The un- 
exampled and astonishing success attending the various and 
numerous plans which have been devised and which are now 
in operation in different parts of the world, and the union and 
harmony with which christians of difTerent denominations unite 
in promoting these plans, clearly indicate a Divine Hand ia 
their direction. Nay, sir, the subject on which ive are now 
deliberating has been brought to public view", nearly about the 
same time in different parts of our country. In new Jersey, 
New York, Indiana, Tennessee, Virginia, and perhaps other 
places not known to ms, the public attention seems to have 
been awakened, as from slumber, to this subject." 

Mr. Caldwell remarked, that "'- it is a great national object, 
and ought to supported by the public purse. And that, as 



88 ADDITIONAL NOTE; 

had beea justly observed by the honourable gentleman in the 
chair, there ought to be a national atonement for the wrongs 
and injuries which Africa had suffered." He said that ** as a 
nation, we cannot rid ourselves entirely from the disgrace at- 
tending the iniquitous slave traffic formerly pursued by this 
country, until we, as a nation, have made every reparation in 
cur power." He observed, that the example of our own an- 
cestors, braving the various dangers and hardships of their 
early emigration and settlement upon these shores ; and the 
prospect of the enjoyment of civil rights and a state of equal- 
ity, ought to encourage and influence these people to comply 
cheerfully with the proposed plan of colonization. 

The question being stated by the chairman, on agreeing t» 
the preamble and resolutions offered by Mr. Caldwell for 
forming an association to accomplish the object of the meet- 
ing : 

'< Mr. John Randolph (of Roanoke) rose and said, that it 
had been properly observed, by the chairman as well as by 
the gentleman from this district, that there was nothing in the 
proposition submitted to consideration which in the smallest 
degree touches another very important and delicate question, 
which ought to be left as much out of view as possible, (Ne- 
gro Slavery.) 

" There was no fear, Mr. R. said, that this proposition would 
alarm the slave holders; they had been accustomed to think 
seriously of the subject. There was a popular work on agri- 
culture, by John Taylor of Caroline, which was widely circu- 
lated, and much confided in, in Virginia. In that book, much 
read because coming from a practical man, this description of 
people were pointed out as a great evil. They had indeed 
been held up as the greater bug bear to every man who feels 
an inclination to emancipate his slaves, not to create in the 
bosom of his country so great a nuisance. If a place could 
be provided for their reception, and a mode of sending them 
hence, there were hundreds, nay thousands of citizens, who 
would, by manumitting their slaves, relieve themselves from 
the cares attendant on their possession. The great slave hold- 
er, Mr. R. said was frequently a mere sentry at his own doot 
— bound to stay on his plantation to see that his slaves were 
properly treated, &c. Mr. R. concluded by saying, that he had 
thought it necessary to make these remarks, being a slave 
holder himself, to shew that, so far from being connected with 
abolition of slavery, the measure proposed would prove one of 
the greatest securities to enable the master to keep in posses- 
sion his own property." 



ADDITIONAL NOTE. B9 

ExtTQcts from the Speech of Mr. Wright. 

" Mr, Robert Wright (of Md.) said he could not withhold his 
approbation of a measure, that had for its object the amehora- 
fion of the lot of any portion of the human race, particularly of 
the free people of colour, whose degraded state robs them of 
the happiness of self government, so dear to the American 
people. And, said he, as I discover the most delicate regard 
to the rights of property, 1 shall with great pleasure lend my 
aid to restore this unfortunate people to the enjoyment of their 
liberty, but I fear gentlemen are too sanguine in their expecta- 
tion, that they would be willing to abandon the land of their 
nativity, so dear to man. However, I have no indisposition 
to give them that election by furnishing all the means contem- 
plated by the honourable and benevolent propositions submit- 
ted to our consideration." 

" Nothing would have a stronger tendency to effect the con- 
templated relief of the free people of colour, than some effici- 
ent laws to secure the restoration of those not entitled to lib- 
erty, to their masters, whose rights ought to be protected by 
law, and who, without such law, would be certainly sacrificed 
by the transportation of the free blacks with whom they would 
most certainly mix for that purpose. However, I fetl no hesi- 
tation in saying, I should be happy to see some plan for the 
gradual abolition of slavery, that would prepare the rising 
generation for that state, and remunerate the master out of 
the funds of the nation, amply abundant for that purpose, with- 
out being felt by the people of America." 

It is a strong presumptive evidence in favour of the ration- 
ality of a moral proposition, when it emanates from several 
sources perfectly distinct and remote from each other. The 
sentiments of Mr. Wright on the propriety of adopting some 
plan for the gradual abolition of islavery, &c. and remunerate 
the aiaster out of the funds of the nation, &c. are so perfectly 
analogous to those which I had adopted and recorded, (pre* 
cisely as expressed in page 58 and 61,) fifteen days previous 
to the meeting at Washington, that my confidence in their cor- 
rectness, and hope of their favourable reception by the citizens 
In general of the United States, is greatly strengthened ; par- 
ticularly as Mr. Wright is one of the representatives of a large 
state in which slavery prevails, and is himself probably a pos- 
sessor of slaves. 

The preamble and resolutions having been unanimously 
adopted by the meeting, committees were appointed to draught 
articles of association, &c. 

K 





50 ADDITIONAL NOTE,' 

The following are the two first articles of the constitution :— =« 

" Article I. — ^The Soci&ty shall be called, " The American 
Society for Colonizing the Free People of Colour of the 
United States." 

" Article II. — The object to which its attention is to be ex- 
clusively directed, is to promote and execute a plan for colo- 
nizing (with their consent) the free people of colour, residing 
in our country, in Africa, or such other places as Congress 
shall deem most expedient." 

In pursuance of this object, a board of managers have been 
organized ; of which Bushrod Washington, one of the judges 
of the supreme court of the United States, has been appointed 
president. This body have submitted their views to the Con- 
gress, by a memorial. — And, as this memorial embraces sub- 
jects which concern, more or less, every description of popu- 
lation in the United States, its circulation cannot, perhaps, be 
too widely extended. 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JAN. 14. 

Read and ordered to lie on the table. 

To the honorable the Seriate and House of Representatives of the 
United States ofArnerica, in Congress assembled : 

Th'i Memorial of the President and Board of Managers of the 
" American Society for Colonizing the Free People of Colour of 
the United States," 

Respectfully sHEv,rs — 

THAT your memorialists are delegated by a numerous and 
highly respectable association of their fellow citizens, recently or- 
ganized at the seat of government, to solicit congress to aid, with 
the power, the patronage, and the resources of the country, the 
great and beneficial object of their institution ; an object deemed 
worthy of the earnest attention, and of the strenuous and persever- 
ing exertions, as well of every patriot, in whatever condition of 
life, as of every enlightened, philanthropic, and practical statesman. 
It is now reduced to be a maxim, equally approved in philosophy 
and politics, that the existence of distinct and separate casts or clas- 
ses, forming exceptions to the general system of polity adapted t»o 
the community, is an inherent vice in the composition of society ; 
pregnant with baneful consequences, both moral and political, and 
demanding the utmost exertions of human energy and foresight to 
remedy or remove it. If this maxim be true in the general, it ap- 
plies with peculiar force to the relative condition of the free people 
of colour in the Uni.ed States; between whom and the rest of the 
community, a combination of causes, political, physical and moral, 
has created distinctions, unavoidable in their origin, and most unfor- 
tunate in their consequences. The actual and prospective condi- 
tion of that class of people; their anomalous and indefijiite relations 



ADDITIONAL NOTE. 9i 

to the political instidiUons and social ties of the community; tlieir 
deprivation of most of those independent, political, and social 
rights, so indispensable to the progressive melioration of our nature, 
rendered by systematic exclusion from all the higher rewards of ex- 
cellence, dead to all (he elevating hopes that might prompt a gene- 
rous ambition to excel; all these, considerations demonstrate, that 
it equally imports the public good, as the individual and social hap- 
piness of the persons more immediately concerned; that it is equally 
a debt of patriotism and of humanity, to provide some adequate and 
effectual remedy. The evil has become so apparent, and the ne- 
cessity for a remedy so palpable, that some of the most considera- 
ble of the slave-holding states have been induced to impose re> 
straints upon the practice of emancipation, by annexing conditions, 
which have the effect to transfer the evil from one state to another ; 
or, by inducing other states to adopt countervailing regulations, and 
in the total abrogation of a right, which benevolent or conscientious 
proprietors had long enjoyed under all the sanctions of positive law 
and of ancient usage. Your memorialists beg leave, with all defer- 
ence, to suggest, that the fairest and mo>3t inviting opportunities are 
now presented to the general government, for repairing a great evil 
ia our social and political institutions, and at the same time for ele- 
vating, from a low and hopeless condition, a numerous and rapidly 
increasing race of men, who want nothing but a proper theatre, to 
enter fupon the pursuit of happiness and independence, in the ordi- 
nary paths which a benign Providence has left open to the human 
race. Those great ends, it is conceived, may be acconsplished by 
making adequate provision for planting, in some salubrious and fer- 
tile region, a colony, to be composed of such of the above descrip- 
tion of persons as may choose to emigrate ; and for extending to it 
the authority and protection of t^ie United States, until it shall have 
attained sufficient strength and consistency to be left in a state of in- 
dependence. 

Independently of the motives derived from political foresight and 
civil prudence on the one hand, and from moraJ justice and philan- 
thropy on the other ; there are additional considerations, and more 
expanded views to engage the sympathies and excite the ardor of a 
liberal and enlightened people. It may be resolved for our govern- 
ment (the first to denounce an inhuman and abominable traffic, in 
the guilt and disgrace of which most of the civilized nations of the 
world w^ere partakers) to become the honorable instrument, under 
Divine Providence, of conferring a still higher blessing upon the 
large and interesting portion of mankind, benefited by that deed of 
justice ; by demonstrating that a race of men, composing numerous 
tribes, spread over a continent of vast and unexplored extent, ferti- 
lity and riches ; known to the enlightened nations of antiquity ; and 
who had yet made no progress in the refinements of civilization; for 
whom history has preserved no monuments of arts or arms ; that 
even this, hitherto, ill-fated race, may cherish the hope of beholding 
at last the orient star revealing the best and highest aims and attri- 
butes of man. Out of s\ich materials, to rear the glorious edifices 



92 ADDITIONAL NOTE. 

of well ordered and polished society, upon the deep and sure foun- 
dations of equal laws and diffusive education, would give a sufficient 
title to be enrolled among the illustrious benefactors of mankind: 
whilst it afforded a precious and consolatory evidence of the all-pre- 
vailing power of liberty, enlightened by knowledge and corrected 
by religion. If the experiment, in its remote consequences, should 
ultimately tend to the diffusion of similar blessings through those 
Tast regions and unnumbered tribes yet obscured in primeval dark- 
ness ; reclaim the rude wanderer, from a life of wretchedness, to 
civilization and humanity ; and convert the blind idolater, from gross 
and abject superstitions, to the holy charities, the sublime morality 
and huhianizing discipline of the gospel; the nation, or the indivi- 
dual, that shall have taken the most conspicuous lead in achieving 
the benignant enterprize, will have raised a monument of that true 
and imperishable glory, founded in the approbation and gratitude of 
the human race ; unapproachable to all but the elected instruments 
of divine beneficence : a glory with which the most splendid 
achievements of human force or power must sink in the competi- 
tion and appear insignificant and vulgar in the comparison. And 
above all, should it be considered, that the nation or the individual, 
whose energies have been faithfully given to this august work, will 
have secured, by this exalted beneficence the favor of that Being, 
** whose compassion is overall his works," and whose unspeakable 
rewards will never fail to bless the humblest effort to do good to hiB 
creatures. 

Your memorialists do not presume to determine that the views of 
congress will be necessarily directed to the country to which they 
have just alluded. They hope to be excused for intimating some of 
the reasons which would bring that portion of the world before us, 
when engaged in di.scovering a place <he most proper to be selected, 
leaving it W'ith confidence, to the better information and better 
Judgment of your honorable bodj'- to make the choice. 

Your memorialists, without presuming to mark out, in detail, the 
measures which it may be proper to adopt in furtherance of the ob- 
ject in view; but implicitly relying upon the wisdom of congress to 
devise the most effectual measures ; will only pray, that the subject 
inay be recommended to their serious consideration), and that, as an 
humble auxiliary in this great work, the association, represented by 
your memorialists, may be permitted to aspire to the hope of con- 
tributing its labors and resources. 

BUSH. WASHINGTON, President 

"With respect to the most eligible situation for the establish- 
ment of the proposed colony, J shall probably more certainly 
avoid the imputation of unbecoming assurance, by omitting, 
for the present, to add any thing more specific to what I had 
already expressed (see page 29) before the least intimation of 
the design of forming this association had come to my know- 
ledge. 

I cannot forbear, however, to remark, that although it 



ADDITIONAL NOTE. 93 

would give me inexpressible pleasure to see the banners of 
knowledge and rational religion triumphing over ignorance 
and superstition, in Africa, as well as in the many other vast re- 
gions of the earth, yet it impresses me that it will absorb all 
the benevolence, all the delegated authority, and all the re- 
sources, for a century to come, of both our national and state 
legislatures, to reclaim from the awful abyss of ignorance, 
vice, and consequential misery, in which thousands and hun- 
dreds of thousands of human beings, of all colours and all ex- 
tractions, are involved on our own continent: — That moral 
contamination on this continent cannot produce religion and 
moral purification by a transfer to the contment of Africa : — 
And that the great moral debt which this continent has incur- 
red, is due more specifically to the immense population of the 
sons of Africa, who still remain in the shackles of slavery, 
than to those who are now enjoying personal liberty, or to the 
continent of Africa. 

I have been assured by citizens of Philadelphia, who were 
active in aiding Capt. Cuifee in collecting emigrants for Sierra 
Lepne, that the injunctions of the British authorities were very 
positive not to admit any without testimonials of an irreproach- 
able moral character from respectable magistrates. After a 
proper system of African education has become matured in 
this country, the seeds of much future good might be gradu- 
ally disseminated in Africa, by frequent exportations to that 
country of well instructed virtuous school-masters, artisans 
and farmers j as the Society of Friends have done, with encou- 
raging prospects of success, amongst the aboriginal natives of 
this country. 

I will conclude for the present, with a transcript of the pro- 
ceedings of a meeting of the free colpurtd people at Richmond, 
(Virg.) which have come to hand (through the "Freeman's 
Journal,") just in time for insertion, before this work is dis- 
missed from the press. — They are similar to those of a simi- 
lar meeting at Georgetown several weeks ago ; 

RICHMOND, Jan. 28. 

MEETING OF FREE PEOPLE OF COLOUR. 

At a meeting of a respectable portion of the Free People of Colour, 
of the city of Richmond, on Friday, the 24th of January, 1817, 
William Bowler was appointed Chairman, Ephraim Speed, Mo- 
derator, and Lantey Crow, Secretary. 

The following Preamble and Resolution was read, unanimously 
adopted, and ordered to be printed ; 
Whereas, A Society has been formed at the seat of Government, 
for the purpose of "colonizing (with their own co; sent,) the Free 
People of Colour of the United States;" therefore, Ave the Free People 
of Colour of the city of Richmond, have thought it adviseable to as- 



94 ADDITIONAL NOTE. 

semble together, under the sanction of authority, for the purpose 
of making a pubUc expression of our sentiments on a question in 
wliich we are so deeply interested : we perfectly agree with the So- 
ciety, that it is not only proper, but would ultimately tend to the 
benefit and advantage of a great portion of our suffering fellow-crea- 
tures, to be colonized: but while we thus express our entire appro- 
bation of a measure, laudable in its purposes aod beneficent in its 
designs, it may not be improper in us to say, we prefer being colo- 
nized in the most remote corner of the land of our nativity, to being 
exiled to a foreign country.* 

And whereas. The President and Board of Managers of the said 
Society, have been pleased to leave it to the entire discretion of 
Congress to provide a suitable place for carrying their laudable in- 
tentions into effect — 

Be it therefore resolved, That we respectfully submit to the wis- 
dom of Congress, whether it would not be an act of charity to grant 
us a small portion of their territoiy, either on the Missouri river, or 
any place that may seem to them most conducive to the public good, 
and ourfo>t;!re welfare; subject, however, to such rules and regula- 
tions as the government of the United States may think proper to 
adopt. 

W. BOWLER, Chairman. 

Ephraim Speed, Moderator. 

Lantey Crow, Secretary. 

The following article from the New York Columbian, may, per- 
haps, throw a little additional light on this subject: — 

"NECESSITY OF A COLONY OF FREE BLACKS-Superseded. 

We gave an abstract of the constitution of Hayti some weeks ago; 
and out of compaf sion, &c. we again publish the 44th clause, which 
shows a land of promise nearer our doors than Sierra Leone. 

44. " Every African, Indian, and their descendants, born in the 
colonies of foreign countries, who shall come to reside in the Re- 
public, shall be recognized as Haytians, but shall not enjoy the 
rights of citizenship until after a year's residence." 

The same constitution that excludes the white man, invites the 
black ; and, gentlemen from Port au Prince have assured us, that 
President Petion gives a marked welcome to the Free Blacks from 
the United Slates who settle in Hayti." 

* Several free persons of colour, of both sexes, and all a little 
shaded with a yellowish tint, being employed as servants in the 
house in which I lodge, I inquired of two of the females, a few days 
ago, whether they would like to g>j to Africa, as it was the country of 
Iheir forefathers. One of them expressed great repugnance at go- 
ing there, and the other said her fathers did not come from Africa, 
*' and (said she) if they (the Americans) did not want us, they had 
no need to have brought us away ; after they've brought us here, 
and made us work hard, and disfigured the colour, 1 don't think it 
•would be fair to send us back again." 




m 

m 



ii 



m 



ifil 



ll 



m 



n 



^1 



. rs of pathos in a task 
' i wrongs to sing ; foi ^ '^ 

. o .i;,) p ^or you these known ix .] ■ ■^' ■ 
To toiigue mute mi:r;ciy and re- ..v.. i,:.. :• -i.' 
With crimes oft copied from that bloody scrol 
"^Vhere Sla\'ery pens her woes ; tho' tis but there 
We leani tlie weight ihi.^ mortal life can bcnr: 
The tale might sturde btill the accustom M e , 
Still slinkc the licrvt thatpum^.j the pearly i 
M' :irt, and thro- the niitiou p; 

: - :- ..k the barb ' --- 
':th}- for guiuancc ^ 
■'. -' ' ■:■!•- KUsuppiV; 



nancis r-c 



Men -^^ 



X i 

T 



in that to; 



. , civil jars, 

Tl. 'f conquest and v ■• " '•' 

"^ ' b • r, all iiis comijmd, 

■ and stir distre'^s mat/' 
iiir deliberate hand, 
•i fly this ) ,- :. 

rBARi^o\\ ^ ■ ' ■ • 






yt-nrtxrsu-^- 



aiSFHlSIHISIc 



i30ctmifni«ain Juu*»Ki.» i iTi ^ « « CTq p frc«" toi 




