Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/scripturalrefutaOOIond 



A 

SCRIPTURAL REFUTATION 

O F A 

PAMPHLET, 

- LATELY PUBLISHED BY THE REV. RAYMUND HARRIS^ 

I N T 1 T L E D, 

" SCRIPTURAL RESEARCHES 

ON T HE 

LICITNESS OF THE SLAVE TRADE.^' 

In FOUR LETTERS from the AUTHOR, 
to a FRIEND. 

TH5: SECOND EDITION^ 



■" from love of grace 



Lay not hh Jiattering un^ion to your fouls. ^ 



LONDON: 

Printed and Sold by J. Phillips, George-Yard, 

Lombard-Street, 
mdcclxxxviii* 



Scriptural Refutation, Sec. 



LETTER L 



I HAVE perufed with fome degree of atten- 
tion, the very extraordinary pamphlet which 
you lately fent me, intitled, ^^ Scriptural Refearches 
en the licitness of the Slave ^radcy hy the Rev, 
Raymund Harris-,'' in which the author has endea- 
voured to fliew " its conformity with the principles 
of natural and fevealed religion^ as delineated in the 
facred writings of the word of God,'' 

Although I have not that high opinion of the 
ftate of improvement, in this age and country, 
which many perfons profefs to entertain, yet I own 
I could not avoid being furprifed, that either the 
one or the other, Ihould have been infulted by 
the publication of a wor-k, which, if its dangerous 
and deftru6live principles were admitted in their 
full extent, would fliake the foundations of fo- 
ciety, and eflabliHi, hy tleJanSfion of divine autho- 
A 2 r/Vv, 



( 4 ) 

rity^ every variety of oppreffion, and every fpecies 
of guilt. 

The fhort account you gave me of the charac-^ 
ter and profefTion of the author, operated however 
as a fort of comment on his work. The unnatural 
attachment to flavery — the averfion and dread of 
the interference of reafon and common fenfe — the 
artful and fubtJe pofitions v/hich are the foundation 
of his work, appear totally irreconcileable to the 
charader of an Englijkman, but are perfedly con- 
fiilent with that of a Spanijh Jefuit. 

I muft not, however, charge the Rev. Ray- 
rnund Harris v/ith being the firft who has open- 
ly attempted the juftification of moral guilt from 
the books of the Old and New Teftament. So 
long ago as the beginning of the 15th century, 
one John Petite a doctor of the church in France, 
not only publickly jufiified the murder of the 
Duke of Orleans, by the Duke of Burgundy, but 
took occafion, at the fame time, to afiert the ge- 
neral legality (or, as it is now expreffed, the licit- 
fiejs) of homicide, which he founded on the ex- 
am.ple of all the murders mentioned in the Old 
Teftament, by making that a rule of conduB^ which 
was only introduced as a mere hifiorical narrative. 

As I have at prefent a little ieifure, I think I 
cannot em.ploy it to better purpofe, than in ftrip- 
pingthe mafk from this concealed enemy of order 
and religion^ and expofing him to the world in 
his proper colours, But before I enter on the 
examination of his work, it may not be improper 
to premiife, that I fhall confine myfelf to the mode 
of proof he has himfeif prefcribed ; viz. to that de^ 
rived from the authority of the facred 'writings only-^ 
not thinking it in any degree necefTary in the re- 
futation 



C s } 

futation of his work^ to refort to thofe more ge- 
neral arguments which are derived from the na- 
ture of man, and the univerfal principles of truth 
and juflice, as implanted in the human mind^ by 
the immediate hand of its great Author; nor 
availing myfelf of an objedlion^ which might be 
reafonably made, viz. That in difcuiTmg a matter 
of right between the Europeans and the Africans^ 
an appeal is made to an authority, which one of 
the parties only acknowledge as legitimate* 

But though I fhall confine myfeif to the proofs 
and authorities deduced from the facred writings^ 
yet I cannot fo far coincide with Mr. H's wifh, as 
entirely to diveilm.yfelf of «' the/canty light of mere 
human reafon and Jenje^^ which, nocwithilanding 
the opprobium thrown upon it by Mr. H. in his 
preface, I cannot help thinking, is in fome de- 
gree necelTary, to enable us to underftand thofe 
writings. Mr. H. indeed afterwards informs us, 
that he has prefixed to the whole of his work, a few 
pofitions or data^ which he trufts will be found 
unqueilionably true, and eyiaEfly conformahle to 
found reafon-, and thus, whiiil in one breath he 
impeaches the authority of this ultimate judge of 
truth, in the next he admits it to queftion his 
lirfl principles. 

With this permifTion then, I fhall, in the pre« 
fent letter, take the liberty of flating a few of his 
data (which are twelve in number), and trying 
whether they are conliflent with found reafon or 
not; in which I fhall endeavour to be as concife 
as the nature of the fubjed will admit. 

His ift and 2d pofitions are, 

A3 " "fhai 



( 6 ) 

**• nat the volume of the Jacred writings^ 
*^ commonly called the Holy Bible^ compre- 
** hending both the Old and New 'Tefta- 
*^ mentS) contains the unerring decifions of 
*' the word of God, That thefe decifions are 
*^ of equal authority in both the Tejiamentsi 
•^ and that that authority is the ejfential ve- 
*^ racity of God ^ who is truth itjelf'^ 



Now if we for a moment apply to thefe po« 
fitions the toiichflone of human reafon, we fhall 
find that fome of them are fundamentally falfe ; 
and that all of them are to be underftood with 
many reftridions and exceptions. That the Old 
and New Teflaments contain the unerring de- 
cifions ofGod, where God has exprefsly given them 
to us as his decifions, every Chriftian will readily 
admit; bur it is obvious, that the far greater part 
oftheOldand New Teftaments, confift, not of 
decifions^ but of mere hifiorical faSlSy fome of them 
affording inftances of a virtuous, and others of a 
vicious condud. That other parts of the fcrip- 
tures, even where fuch decifions are found, are 
not of general ufe, but are applicable only to 
particular ti^es^ or to a particular people. That it is not 
true that the decifions of the Old and New Tefla- 
ments are of equal authority, for that the former 
is always controlled by the latter; which has to- 
tally abrogated many parts of the Mofaic law, 
and made an efTential difference, not only in the 
ritual, but in the moral duties enjoined by the 
Old Teflament, as I fhall hereafter have occafion 
to fhew more at large. 

The 



( 7 ) 

The effence of his four next pofitioiis is, fha^ 
whatever is declared to he right or wrong in the 
fcriptureSy is fo in its nature ^ and cannot he queftioned 
without great prefumption\ hut muft he ajfented to 
without refervcy however contrary it may he to the 
opinions of men for any length of time. But thefe 
pofitions are alfo laid down in a form, much too 
general to be admitted by the profefTors of any 
religion, except that in which the reverend author 
was educated. It will readily be granted, that 
whenever the fcriptures have decided on general 
principles of right and wrong, fuch decifions are 
unerring •, but it muil alfo be granted, that when 
thofe decifions have a reference to the fituation 
of a particular perfon, or a particular nation, they 
ought not to be arbitrarily and indifcriminately 
applied to other perfons, or other nations: And 
if from the powers given to the Jews over their 
enemies, the permiffion of certain a6ls in particu- 
lar cafes, and the exiftence of certain cuftoms 
amongft them, we were to infer a right in our- 
felves, to imitate their adions, and pradife their 
cuftoms, whenever we thought there was a fimi- 
iarity in our fituation, the book of the Old Tefta- 
ment might be converted into a general voucher 
for the licitnefs of almoft every crime, and every 
enormity, whether national or individual, 

Mr. FL proceeds in his 5th datum to 
ftate, " That if one or more decifions of the 
" written word of God give a pofitive fane- 
" tion to the intrinfic licitnefs of any human 
" purfuity for infiance^ the Slave Trade, who- 
«* ever profejfes to helieve the incontrovert- 
*' ihle veracity of the written word of God 
A 4 '« efftnttally 



( 8 ) 

*^ ejfentially incompatible with the leaft degree 
" of injufticey muft confequently believe the 
*^ purjuit it/elf to be intrinfically juft and 
*^ lawful in the Jiri5feft fenfe of the word.'* 

From this pofition then it would feem that all 
aftions which have, under the Jewifh difpenfation, 
been pradifed by the fa,n6lion of divine authority, 
are intrinfically and univerfally right, and may 
be pra6lifed by all mankind, in all future times, 
not only without guilt, but with the ftrideft vir- 
tue and' propriety ; and this moft extenfive rule 
is founded on a prefumption, that what God has, 
on one occafion, declared to be right, muft alfo 
be right on all other occafions, without any at- 
tention to the particular circumftances of each. 
Suppofing this pofition to be once granted, it is 
doubtful whether the depravity of man could com- 
mit a crime for which Mr. Ho would not, from 
the facred writings, extradt a better apology than 
he has already done for the Slave Trade. Thus^ 
for inftance, if any man doubted of the inherent 
licitnefs of 



INCEST, 

It would be eafy for Mr. Harris to point out the 
examples of the daughters of Lot, who each of 
them conceived by their father j* which tranf- 
aftion, fo far from being reprefented as criminal, 
not only pafles free from the leaft fhadow of re- 
jprehenfion, but the offspring of this intercourfe, 

; Gen. c, xi;£. v. 30. 

became 



( 9 ) 

became the founders of two powerful nations. 
Jacob's marrying two fifters,* by each of whom 
he had children, and who purchafed of each other 
his favours, t would be an exprefs authority. 
Were a doubt ftill entertained of the licitnefs of 
the crime, Mr. H, might refer to the general laws 
of the Jews, by which the furviving brother was 
commanded to go in unto his brother's wife, and 
marry her, and raife up feed to his brother^ and 
might point out an inftance where a refufal to 
comply with this injunction, brought down upon 
the offender the immediate vengeance of God. if 
Mr. H. might then advert to the ilate of man- 
kind in the firft age of the world, when the com- 
miffion of this crime was not only excufabie, but 
indifpenfably necelTary to the prefervation of the 
fpecies; and thus the inherent licitnefs of this 
heinous offence would be much more fatisfadorily 
proved than the lawful nature of the African Slave 
Trade, notwithftanding the indefatigable labour 
which Mr, H. has beftowed upon it. 



FRAUD. 

Should any perfon entertain fcruplen of con-> 
fcience, with refped to the lawfulnefs of defraud- 
ing his neighbour, let him adopt Mr. H's por- 
tion, and open the Old Teftament. He will there 
find that the patriarch Jacob, the immediate foun- 
der and ilock of the Jewifh nation, under pre- 
tence of a purchafe, defrauded his brother Efau 

» Gen. chap. xxix. f Gen. chap. xxx. ver. 15. 

I Gen, chap, xxxviii, v, S. 

of 



( lO ) 

of his birth-right-,* and in order to complete this 
firfl piece of treachery, was induced, by a contriv- 
ance of the moft artful nature, to obtain from his 
father Ifaac, the blefling of the firft-born, to the 
wrong and prejudice of his elder brother. Should 
he ftili remain doubtful, he may turn to another 
incident in the life of the fame patriarch, related 
at large Gen. ch. xxx. ver. 2,5. in which he will 
find a ftratagem put in execution by Jacob to de- 
fraud Laban, hfs father-in-law, which, according 
to his polition, will juftify the inherent licitnefs 
of cheating beyond the fliadow of contradidion. 
To thefe authentic fa6ls, which were the founda- 
tion of Jacob's greatnefs, he may add the autho- 
rities that may be deduced from Exod. ch. xi. ver. 
2. and ch. xii. ver. 25- where the Ifraelites abufed 
the confidence of the Egyptians, and deprived 
them of their jewels, by an exprefs command of 
their great lawgiver; and the evident conclufion 
of his Scriptural Refearches on the licitnefs of fraud 
will be, that every man has an inherent right, by 
the exprefs fandlion of the holy fcriptures, to de- 
fraud his neighbour; nay, even his brother or his 
father, as often as it lies in his power. 

tt wcM^ild thus be pradicable, under the fanftion 
of Mr. H's 7th pofition, to fele6l, from the books 
of the Old Tellament, the moft evident and in- 
conteftabie authorities, not only for the iawful- 
nefs of lying, theft, polygamy, and fornication, 
but of the more atrocious crimes of murder, 
adultery, and revenge; but it is irkfome to pro- 
ceed further under the guidance of /^ deteftable a 
propofitiQUi which, under a pretence of paying an 

* Gen. ch. xxv. ver. 29, 

implicit 



( II ) 

Implicit deference to the judgments of God, ex-- 
eludes every confideration of a collateral nature, 
and thereby renders unjuft and criminal in its 
general application, that which in the particular 
inftance, and under peculiar circumilances, was 
right and lawful, and calls in the authority of the 
word of God to juilify the commifTion of crimes 
©f the deepeft dye. 

The remainder of the author's data are employ- 
ed to ftate in various lights, that if any a5i {e,.g. 
the Slave "Trade) he alfiraUedly and ejfentially law- 
fuh no abuje or mal-fraBice can render the principle 
of it criminal; and that no arguments huilt Jolely on 
thofe abufes can have any weighty unlefs the fame he 
proved ejfentially unjuft and illicit. 

To attempt a diilindion between the abllra6t 
nature of any thing and the efFeds produced by 
it, is well worthy one of the difciples of Loyola; 
but though thefe fubtleties might have paffed 
current in the days of our anceftors, they are now 
fomewhat out of feafon. A fort of maxim has 
prevailed, that it is improper to reafon from the 
abufe of any given fubjed, againfl the ufe of it; 
but it will furely be granted, that a pronenefs to 
abufe is itfelf ftrong evidence that fomething is 
wrong in the principle. It was not by fubtle dif- 
tindions of this kind that our Saviour inftru6led 
his followers: He taught us to judge of the caufe 
by its effefts, and not to fuppofe that could be 
rip-ht in its principle, which was manifeilly wrong 
in its confequences.— ^' A good tree^ fays he^ can- 
not bring forth evil fruity neither can a corrupt tree 
bring forth good fruit; wherefore by their fruits ye 
fhall know them^ Matt. chap. vii. ver. i8, 20. 
What have been the fruits of the African Slave 

Trade 



( 12 ) 

Trade I leave to the determination of Mr* H. 
who, by declining to fubmit to this teft, fhews 
pretty clearly the fenfe he entertains of the caufe 
he has undertaken to defend. 

From thefe remarks I truft it will evidently 
appear, that although the fcriptures contain the 
written v/ill of God, yet, as in reading the facred 
volumes we muft ufe our eyes, fo, in underftanding 
them, we mufl make ufe of our reafon. It is true^ 
the Church of Rome prohibits its followers not on- 
ly from confidering, but perufing the fcriptures ; 
and requires them to be implicitly acknowledged 
as equally and invariably true in all parts. But the 
Proteftant Churches have difcarded thefe narrow 
reftraints, and not only permit, but require us to 
examine the fcriptures with the utmoft degree of 
attention and care. Shall we then fo far fuffer 
ourfelves to be blinded by the propofitions, or 
by the fubfequent denunciations of Mr. H. as to 
give up at his fimple requeft, a right for which 
our anceftors ftruggled at the expenfe of their 
blood? Or Ihall we not rather, like men and Pro- 
teftants, judge for ourfelves of the fpirit and ten- 
dency of the holy fcriptures? Under this idea it 
will then be necelTary, before we ground our con- 
dud upon the precepts or examples they afford 
us, diligently to examine whether fuch examples 
and precepts are of general and univerjal importy or 
only confined to a particular perfon or people* 
Whether fome things, which are allowed or com- 
manded in the Old Teftament, he not annulled or 
explained in the New^ and conftantly to make the 
moft accurate diftindion between fuch paiTages as 
ought to influence our condudl", zTid fuch as are 
merely narrative. By thefe means we ihall per- 
ceive. 



( 13 ) 

ceivCs that it would be as abfurd to affert that the 
inhabitants of Great Britain can be judified in 
carrying away the natives of Africa from their 
country and friends to perpetual fervitude, hecaufe 
the Jews had domeftic Haves in their houfes, as 
to fuppofe that we have a right to deftroy all the 
nations round us, hecauje Jofhua fmote thirty-one 
kings on the other fide of the River Jordan,* 



Jofhuss chap. xli. yer. 7. 



LETTER 



( 14 ) 



L E T T E R 11. 



I HAVE in my former letter (hewn, that the 
data required by Mr. H. are fuch as cannot be 
granted, without confiderable reftridlions upon 
their import, by any perfon who affumes the cha- 
rader of a Proteftant, or profefles to make ufe of 
his reafon in the examination of the fcriptures. 
In the prefent, I Ihall point out in what manner 
his fubfequent arguments in favour of the Slave 
Trade, are ^edled by this corredion of his firft 
principles. 

Having ftated as a pofition, that every thing 
contained in the fcriptures is equally true, and 
univerfally applicable ; without any exception 
whatever oi perfon y time^ or place^ or the confider- 
ation of any concurring circumftance^ he proceeds to 
fhew, that the cuftom of flavery was permitted in 
the ancient world, and cites the particular ex- 
amples of Abraham, Jofeph, and Jofhua, with 
many texts on the fubjedts ; occupying the great- 
eft part of his pamphlet with demonilrating, what 
no one ever thought of denying, viz. that the Jews 
were allowed to fur chafe bond-men and bond-women 
of the Heathen^ and under certain ftipulations to 

retain 



( 15 ) 

retain in their fervice, even thofe of their own 
country. 

But it is furely fomewhat extraordinary, that 
fo acute a Logician, after having at fuch length 
laid down his premifes, and fandioned them by 
fuch numerous appeals to holy writ, ihould htfo 
miferably defe^ive in drawing his conclufions from 
them. After having Ihewn the licitnefs of Slavery 
to the Jews and their immediate anceflors, it 
might have been expeded, that the author would 
thence have deduced the right of the Europeans to 
enjlave the inhabitants of Africa -, but on this im- 
portant head he is totally filent : and the whole 
of his reafonings, and refearches, are equally cal- 
culated to prove, that the negroes have an inherent 
right to take us and our families y and carry us into 
perpetual flavery^ as that we have a right to purfue 
the African Slave Trade. 

That the Ifraelites had the permiflion of the 
Divine Being, to retain in their fervice bond- 
men and bond-women of the Heathen, and even 
of their own nation, for a limited time, is grant- 
ed; but this permifTion appears to have been par- 
ticularly confined to that nation, and was not ex- 
tended to the reft of mankind : Nor is there in 
Mr. H's refearches, the leaft ground to conclude, 
that any particular nation fucceeded to that ex- 
traordinary privilege over other nations, which 
was exercifed by, and allowed to the children of 
Ifrael.* 

♦ That the praftice of Man-ftealing, as the objeft of a ge- 
neral law, was confidered, both under the old and new dif- 
penfation, as a crime of the highefl magnitude, may appear 
from Exodus ch. xxi. ver. i6. PauPs ift Epiftle to Tim. 
ch. i, ver, 9 and 10. 

Let 



( i6 ) 

Let us fuppofe then, that fome particular 
perfon, accul>d of exercifing a right which inter- 
fered with the welfare of his neighbour, fliould 
rife up before his judges, and inform them by 
many authorities, that the fame right had been 
exercifed by a certain perfon, at fome former, 
but remote period of time; and having proved 
this, to the fatisfadion of the court, Ihould fit 
himfelfdown, in complacent expedation of a de- 
cree in his favour. Would either the judges, or 
^auditors, think him intitled to that decree, till he 
*had alfo gone one flep further, and demonflrated, 
that he wa^ the ^erjon who bad legally Jucceeded to 
fiich right ? 

" But perhaps Mr. H. will contend, that the per- 
miiuon of retaining Qaves was not confined to the 
Jews^ but was a general law^ extending to the 
whole human race. Now, though 1 fhall by no, 
means acquiefce in this conftruftion of the facred 
books, yet let us for a moment fee what the author 
of the pamphlet would gain by fuch a conceiTion. 
The refult would fimply be, that by the unerring 
iecifion of the great 'parent of the univerfe, the 
ftrono-er*' nation or individual would have an 
inherent right to opprefs and reduce to fervitude, 
the weaker. A fuppofition as injurious to the 
Divine Goodnefs, as any of thofe, upon which 
Mr. H. has bellowed the epithets of blafphemous 
and prefumptuous. 

Thus then you will perceive, that the ordinan- 
ces of God are fom.etimes of a general nature,, 
having reference to all mankind; and fometimes 
of a particular nature, having reference only to 
the people to whom they are immediately deli- 
vered. That the firft are uniformly and invari- 



aoly 



( »7 ) 

ably juft and true, and that the fecond are alfo 
juft and true, when applied to the fubjed on 
which they are intended to operate; but may 
become unjuft, and improper, when applied at 
the will of man to other purpofes, and on other 
occafions. 

As I apprehend this to be a diftin6lion of great 
importance in the prefent debate, I fhall take the 
trouble of giving you an illuftration of it; by 
iiiewing how differently the principles required by 
Mr. H. operate upon any given fubjedl, when 
admitted in their full extent, and when taken 
with the reftridions I have ventured to lay upon 
them. Let this be taken from the firft inftance 
mentioned in the pamphlet, and on which Mr. H^ 
lays the great weight of his caufe, afferting, 
*' That were all other fcriptural evidences wanting 
*^ in favour of the Slave Trade, this decree alone 
** muft convince every impartial reader, that the 
" Ucitnefs of that trade is evidently warranted by 
** the written word of God." 

The ftory is that of Hagar * the handmaid of 
Sarai, who after jQie had conceived a fon by Abram 
her mailer, fled from the fight of her miftrefs^^ 
becaufe fhe dealt hardly with her; and was 
found near a fountain of water in the wildernefs 
by an angel of the Lord ; who ordered her to 
return to her miftrefs, and fubmit herfelf under 
her hands, with a promife that the Lord would 
multiply her feed exceedingly. 

Now in making the particular infiance of God's 
dealings with Hagar (for which there is no doubt 
he had the bell and wifefl reafons) a general ruk^ 

• Gen. c. xvi. 

M to 



( iS ) 

to be applied on fimilar occafions, Mr. H. at- 
tempts to eftablifli a mode of proof, which, if 
admitted, would tear up the foundations of 
focicty ; — introduce and fan^lify a courfe of con- 
du(5l at open variance with the firft laws of truth 
and juftice, as derived from God^ and render it 
eafy to juftify any crime which the moft abandoned 
profligate might be induced to commit. 

" Every circumftance, fays he, attending the 
*' wretched fituation of this poor African Slave y 
** who though legally married to her mafter^ is kept 
*' ftill in bondage, and forced as it were out of 
*^ his houfe and fervice, in the condition fhe was 
'^ in through hard ufage andjeverity^ feems to excite 
'^ compaffion, and juftify her efcape." 

Having thus allowed the apparent injuflice of 
Hagar's fufferings, he proceeds. 

*' Were Hagar's cafe that of any African Female 
•^ Slave now in the Weft Indies, and were the fame 
'^ to be tried before a jury compofed o( Jome of 
*^ the prejent advocates for African liberty in this 
" ifland^ one might decide almoft to a certainty 
*« in whofe favour the verdidl would be given : 
*' The flave tV'ould moft probably be declared 
*' frecj and both mafter and miftrefs feverely 
*^ reprimanded, if not alfo condemned in a heavy 
*^ pecuniary mul6l. No other verdict would be 
*' confiftent with the principles they fo publickly 
*^ avow, — But did Hagar obtain the fame favour- 
y able fentence at the impartial tribunal of God, 
*^ when Ihe pleaded her caufe before the minifter 

of his juftice, whom he deputed to reprefent 

his perfon ? Did he approve of her condu6l in 
" leaving her mafter's houfe, &c. ? Did he fignify 
«! to her, that her charader of Abram's wife, or 

" th€i 



iC 



( 19 ) 

*^ the feverity of Sarah's treatment, even in her 
*' aftual ilate of pregnancy, emancipated her 
" from her bondage, refcinded the original con- 
^^ tra6l of her purchafe, or that that contrad 
*^ had been illicit, and contrary to his laws, &c. 
*^ No. On the contrary, her condu6t was con- 
'^ demned by the reprefentative of God, who 
*^ ordered her in his name to return to her 
*^ miftrefs, and fubmit herfelf under her hands; 
*^ though at the fame time he afTured her that the 
*' Lord had heard her affli£iion,'^ 

From this mod Angular comment Mr. H. im- 
mediately concludes, " that the licitnefs of tiie 
*^ (lave trade is evidently warranted by the written 
*^ word of God," But before we allow the cafe 
of Hagar to be a fandlion for a fubfequent courfe 
of condu6t, of fo diffimilar a nature, let us examine 
the dedudllons which Mr. H. in his foresoino: 
comment has endeavoured to draw from this 
ftory, and which he muft eftablifli before it can 
be of the leaft fervice to the caufe it is introduced 
to fupport : Thefe evidently are, 

I. That in cafe the caufe of Hagar had been 
tried before a juft and impartial human tribunal, 
they would have been culpable in deciding upon 
it according to the known laws of juilice and 
humanity. 

II. That on all fubfequent occafions, where a 
perfon has fuffered under the rod of oppreflion, it 
is the bufinefs of a judge to fend back the fuiFerer 
to receive further ill treatment. 

III. That becaufe Hagar was ordered by an 
angel to return to her miilrefs, it is lawful for 
the merchants of Europe to carry on a Trade for 
Slaves CO the coaft of Africa, 

B a 1 ihall 



( 20 ) 

I fliall clofe my prefent letter with a few obfer- 
vations on each of thefe dedu6lions. 

I. The Supreme Being alone can fearch the 
hearts of men, and the rcafons of his immediate 
determinations are not always apparent to his 
creatures, who can only form their imperfe6t 
judgment from external circumftances. — It was 
therefore no doubt confident with his wifdom and 
juftice to dire6b Hagar's return. He had power to 
/often the heart of her miftrefs towards hery and to 

recomfenfe her obedience as he thought good-^ — but 
would an earthly tribunal have been therefore 
excufable, in difcarding every principle of juftice, 
and fending Hagar back to receive further ill 
treatment ? — The idea is equally wicked and 
ridiculous. 

II. It feems fcarcely pofTible to conceive a 
higher degree of prefumption, than that of ap- 
plying the particular judgments of God to fubfe- 
quent purpofes and occafions. That a cafe exa^ly 
fimilar in all points to that of Hagar has ever 
fince happened, may very fairly be doubted 5 and 
until that does really happen, the decree of the 
Supreme Being appropriated to that cafe, can 
never again be applicable. Befides, the powers 
and faculties of our minds are not fufficiently 
extenfive, to enable us to judge of the circum- 
ftances in all their connedtions, even if fuch a 
cafe ftiould again exift. — To reafon therefore from 
this inftance, to others which evidently bear only 
z partial or difiant refemhlance to it, is the extreme 

' of arrogance ; and to ad in confequence of fuch 
reafoning, would be the extreme of wickednefs. 

III. But from what circumftances in this ftory 
does Mr. H. deduce the very extraordinary con- 

clufton. 



( ai ) 

^^lufion, " That the Slave Trade ^ even when attended 
*^ with circumftances 7iot altogether conformable to 
*^ the feelings of humanity^ is effentially conftftent with 
*^ the f acred and inalienable rights ofjuftice, and has 
*' the pofitive fanSiion of God in itsfupport ?'* What? 
Becaufe the Lord, by his angel, ordered Hagar 
to return to her mafter, to whom Ihe was under 
fome kind of obligation for fervice, whether vo- 
luntary or involuntary does not appear, to whom 
Hie was legally married^ and by whom fhe was then 
pregnant:, does it by any rule of conftrudtion 
follow, that Mr. H. or any other perfon, has an 
inherent rights either forcibly, or by the colourable 
pretext of purchafe, to feize upon an inhabitant 
of Whidahy or Congo^ whom he had never before 
feen^ to carry him on board a fhip, and expofe 
him for feveral months to a variety of dangers s 
and if he furvives, to deliver him over to a 
planter, to exhauft the remainder of his days in 
extreme labour, under the immediate difcipline of 
the fcourge? — Juftice, humanity, and common 
fenfe equally revolt at fuch a dedudion. — But as 
Mr. H. has openly difclaimed all connexion with 
thefe dangerous guides of human condud, I fhall 
apply my remark in a different form ; and aflure 
him, that whenever a (Ironger hand than his own 
fhall hurry him on board a ftiip, and confign him 
to the care of an American planter for the reft of 
his days, the cafe of Hagar will, according to 
his own explanation of it, be as good an authority 
for this proceeding, as when it was introduced tQ 
give a fandion to the African Slave Trade, 



B 3 LETTER IIL 



( 22 ) 



LETTER IIL 



IF you will keep in view the diftin^flion between 
a blind and fuperflitious admiflion, that every 
fa6l authorifed in the Old and New Teftaments, is 
to be taken as a rule of condii6l, without any 
conlideration of concurrent circumflances ; and 
the reafonable and orthodox conftrudlion of the 
Scriptures, which I have contended for, viz. 
That determinations in particular circumflances, 
and under fo peculiar a difpenfation as that of the 
Jews, can be no authority for general condud; 
you will hold in your hand a clue, which will 
fafely guide you through all the windings and 
intricacies of Mr. H's labyrinth^ and will find, 
that every other authority he has quoted, will, 
when examined by this rule, have as little weight 
in juftifying the principle of the Slave Trade, as 
the flory of Abram and Hagar. 

For inftance, — the hiftory of Jofeph's hoarding 
the corn, and afterwards felling it to the Egyp» 
tians, contains a great variety of particular cir- 
cumflances J all of them intirely different from 
any thing in the African Slave Trade. Jofcph 
had forefeen the famine, and had prudently made 
arcferve of corn during the feven years of plentv; 

by 



(■ n ) 

hf which he had moft probably faved the lives of 
the greatefl part of the inhabitants-, but have the 
merchants of Europe ever conferred a linailar ob« 
ligation on the natives of Africa ? The purchafe 
of this corn muft have amounted to a confiderable 
fum of money, which had been circulated amongft 
the Egyptians ; and Jofeph was therefore in fome 
refpe6ls juflified in refeliing the corn, and per- 
haps at an advanced price. But ha.vt/uch of the 
natives of Africa as are reduced to flavery, ever 
received any kind of compenfation for the depri- 
yation of every thing dear to them ? In the event 
it turns out that Jofeph did not reduce the 
Egyptians to a ftate of adual bondage 5 but that 
he entered into a compadt with them, viz. That 
he Ihould give them feed to fow the land, and 
that they fhould have four parts of the produce, 
and Pharaoh the fifth part. 

Not one of the inhabitants was fold to any 
diftant country, nor ever removed out of the 
kingdom of Egypt •, nor does it appear, that any 
other end was effected by this tranfadion, than 
merely the levying a tax of one-fifth of the pro- 
duce throughout the kingdomj * no fubfequenc 
notice being taken in the facred books, that the 
inhabitants of Egypt were held in flavery by their 
own kings : On the contrary, it appears that in 
the following reign, the Egyptians had reduced 
into flavery the children of Ifrael, and aded the 
part of talk-mafters over them.-f- 

What then fhall we think of the reafonablenefs 
and modefty of Mr. H. ? who has thought it ne« 
ceffary to employ his time in making a calcula- 
tion of the number of inhabitants at that period 
in Egypt i which he finds to have amounted to 
* Gen. ch, xkii. ver. 26. f Exod. ch.. i. ver. 8. 

B 4 {^Ytn 



( 24 ) 

feven or eight millions, and which he fuppofes is 
a number not unequal to all the purchafes of the 
kind ever made by Englifh merchants, fmce the 
commencement of the flave trade ! 

After all — will it be faid, that under the light 
we now enjoy in the Chriftian difpenfation, the 
condud of Jofeph ought to be a rule for the 
condu6b of the governor of a country in modern 
times ; even fuppofing it pofTible the fame events 
Ihould again comiC to pafs ? Would it be con- 
fident with the very pofitive injun6lion of our 
Lord, '' Give to him that ajketh thee^ and from him 
that would borrow from thee turn not thou away?^'^ 
The withholding the corn till the people furren- 
dered their lands, and even their perfonal li- 
berties, implies a right in Jofeph (though at that 
time the governor, and confequently the pro- 
teftpr of the country) to withhold the corn, even 
though the inhabitants fhould perifh for want ofit,—^ 
A poiition which may well be doubted. And, 
granting the ftory in the extent Mr. H. requires, 
where was the policy or advantage in Pharaoh 
being a Slave-holder or 'Tyrant, rather than the 
king of a happy and independent people ? 

If then the inftance of Jofeph's conducfl to- 
wards the Egyptians would not in modern times, 
under the light of the gofpel, be a fan^tion for 
the ruler of a country under fimilar circumftances, 
to follow his example — how^ in the name of com- 
mon fenfe, can it be an authority for the Slave 
Trade? By which, without any pretence of com- 
penfation, the inhabitants of Africa are carried 
away from their native country, and coniipelled 

f Matt. ch. V. ver. 42, 

to 



( 25 ) 

to intenfe labour; with no further allowance 
than what is barely fufBcient to fupport their 
exiftence. The inhabitants of Egypt enjoyed /i5«r- 
fifths of the "produce of the land-, their countrymen 
in modern times are not allowed one fiftieth. Pha- 
raoh we are told was hard of heart. What then 
pall we think of the prefent fyftem of Slavery? 

From thefe inflances of Hagar and of Jofeph, 
Mr. H. informs us, he thinks he has fufficiently 
demonftrated that the Slave Trade has the indif- 
putable fandtion of Divine Authority, and is in 
exa6l: conformity with the principles of the law 
of nature, as delineated in the facred writings of 
the word of God. But whether fuch reafoning 
would not difgrace any caufe, except the caufe it 
is intended to defend, 1 leave you to judge? 

I now come to that part of Mr. H's work, in 
which he attempts to Ihew, that the Slave Trade is 
in conformity with the principles of the Mofaic 
law. That fuch was the praftice among the 
Ifraelites, and that fuch pra6tice was allowed un- 
der the Mofaic inflitution, I have already admit- 
ted j but before I enter further in the difcufTion 
of this part of the queftion, I Ihall beg leave to 
make one obfervation on the only hiilorical fad 
cited by Mr. H. under the law as an authority for 
flavery, viz. that of Jofhua's treatment of the in« 
habitants of Gibeon. 

The facred writings inform us, that the land 
of Gibeon was given to the children of Ifrael, 
who were authorifed by an exprefs revelation from 
Gody to deitroy all the inhabitants of the land/^ 
For what particular crimes in the nations ad- 

• Jofh. ch. i. ver? 2, 3. and ch. ix. ver. 24. 

jacent 



( ^6 ) 

jacent ta the Ifraelites thefe heavy judgments 
were denounced againft them, does not appear; 
fuch however was the power and authority with 
which Jofhua was invefted at the ti^ne the event 
cited by Mr. H. took place. 

But where is the revelation by which the in- 
habitants of Africa are delivered up to the people 
of Europe? Where is the authority of the king- 
dom of England over that of Angola ? Whence 
is it derived ? Who hath ever heard it afTerted ? 
Or in what writings, facred or prophane, is it to 
be found ? 

This circumdance, then, which is the found- 
ation and Jole juftification of Jofhua's fubfequent 
condud, bemg wanting in the cafe to which it 
is now applied, entirely deftroys all fimilarity 
between them. 

For the Gibeonites having been abfolutely de- 
livered up to the power of Jofhua, who was 
authorifed, and even commanded to deftroy 
them; he could, with the permifTion of God^ 
change that feverity of treatment to a milder 
puniihment; and from fuch change, the Gibeon- 
ites derived a great advantage, viz. the pre- 
fervation of their lives. But have the Slave- 
dealers of Europe faved from deftrudion and 
extirpation any of the nations of Africa ? Have 
the judgments of God been denounced againft 
thofe people, and have fuch judgments been 
averted by the humanity or interference of the 
Europeans ? On the contrary, have they not,^ 
for ages pail, in oppofition to the pofitive laws 
of God, in open contempt of the Chriftian re- 
ligion, and without any other authority than 
that of being the ftrongefl, defolated and dif- 

peopled 



( 27 ) 

peopled one of the mofl populous and fertile 
parts of the univerfe ? Whether this has given 
them a right, equal to that of Jofliuaover the 
Gibeonites, I leave to Mr. H. to explain. I 
muft however agree with him in thinking, ibaS 
it is ecijy to conclude y whether the reducing the inrto^ 
cent as well as the guilty fart of our fellow- creatures 
to the condition of Jlaves^ or even to hereditary bon- 
dage or flavery, be in its own nature licit ^ or illicit^ 
criminaly or iinjujl. And I truft that no per- 
fon, who has candidly attended to the fubje6t 
in difpucCj can have a doubt upon the quef- 
don. 



LETTER 



( 28 ) 



LETTER IV, 



I HAVE already admitted, that the pradice of 
flavery was permitted to the Ifraelites and 
their immediate anceftors : — But I have at the 
fame time aflerted, that fuch permiflion was con- 
fined to that people only^ and was not extended 
to the reft of mankind. I Ihall now undertake 
to Ihew, that the pradlice of flavery, as allowed 
to the Ifraelites, fo far from receiving a fan6tion 
from, was abolifhed by the Chriftian difpenfation, 
as being totally irreconcilable with the firft prin- 
ciples of the religion of its divine author. 

Mr. H. has endeavoured to intrench himfelf, by 
every precaution in his power, againft the attack, 
which he well knew his caufe was expofed to receive 
from this quarter, and has ftipulated,that the books 
of the Old and New Teftaments (hall beconfidered 
as of equal authority. But if Mr. H. be as fully 
fatisfied as he pretends to be, that the dodtrines of 
our Saviour are uniformly of the fame tendency 
as thofe of the Mofaic law, why does he fo earn- 
eftly labour to eftablifh a proportion, which the 
greateft part of his readers will fcarcely be in- 
clined to grant him ? Docs he not appear to have 

been 



( 29 ) 

been aware, not only that his caufe would derive 
no authority from the New Teftament, but that 
the difpenfations of the new law^ might in fame 
refpeds interfere with and contradid thofe of the 
old? 

That this may reafonably be prefumed to 
be Mr. H's true motive for endeavouring to 
eftablifh the equal authority of the Old and New 
Teftament, will appear from confidering the rea- 
fons he gives, for having been more particular 
in bringing the lafl part of his Refearches into 
what he calls a central point of view, viz. " That 
*^ he has reafon to apprehend, that feveral of his 
^^ readers would be apt to imagine, that by the 
" eftablilhmentof the Chriftian Religion the Law 
*^ of Mofes was totally abolifhed, and annulled in 
^^ every part of it ; and to every intent and pur- 
«^ pofe, both typical and moral." Now it is im- 
poffible for Mr. H. to be fo ignorant as not to 
know, that every fed and denomination of Chrif- 
tians admit the moral precepts of the Old Tefta- 
ment, whenever they do not interfere with the 
purer dodrines of the Chriftian fcheme — this then 
could not be the true motive for his being fo par- 
ticular on this head. The fad is, he hoped that 
by eftablifhing the equality of the Old Teftament 
to the New, he could with more advantage make 
the authorities which he pretended to find in the 
former, for the general juftification of flavery, 
militate againft the exprefs and unequivocal 
precepts againft it, which are contained in the 
latter. 

Of what great importance the eftablilhment of 
this propofition is to Mr. H's argument, will ap- 
pear from the ufe he has attempted to make of 

it. 



( 30 ) 

it. '^ From this undeniable pofition, fays he^ it 
*' follows neceirarily, that as the writings of hcth 
*^ the 'Teftaments have the fame weight of authority^ 
<' efientially incapable of contradiding itfelf, in 
** fupport of thofe principk^s and decifions en- 
** acfled and regiilered in their refprdive records, 
*^ concerning the intrinfic morality or immorality 
*' of human a6lions, whatever is declared in the 
*« one to be intrinfically good or bad, jufl or 
*' unjuft, licit or illicit, muft inevitably be fo 
'^ according to the principles of the other. If there- 
*^ fore the Slave Trade appears, as I trufi it does^ 
*^ from the preceding train of Scriptural Argu- 
*^ ments, in perfe6t harmony with the principles 
*^ and decifions of the word of God, regiflered 
*^ in the facred writings of the Old Teftament, 
" refpedling the intrinfic nature of that trade, 
*^ this of courfe can bear no oppofition to, but 
*^ muft neceffarily be in equal perfect harmony 
«^ with the principles and decifions of the word 
«' of God, refpeding right and juftice, — regifter- 
*^ ed in the facred writings of tl^e New. This 
*^ general but forcible argument, were it even un- 
" (upported by any collateral evidences from the 
*^ writings of the New Teftament, would be fully 
" fufficient to verify my third and laft aftertion 
<^ refpeding the licitnefs of the Slave Trade, as 
«' perfe6tly conformable to the principles of the 
« Chriftian difpenfation/' 

Thus Mr. H. has repofed the whole weight of 
his argument in favour of the Slave Trade, un- 
der the Chriftian difpenfation (as unfupported by 
any collateral evidence from the writings of the 
«^ New Teftament) on this fingle propofition, 
^^ that the writings of both the Tejfaments have the 

" Jame 



( 31 ) 

*^ fame weight of authority ,'* I fliall therefore firfl 
proceed to give the moil indubitable evidence 
that this is not the fa5i ; and that the New Tefla- 
ment not only foffejfes, but has exercifed d. control- 
ling power over the Oid^ even in points of moral 
condu5fy in confequence of which, *' This general 
*^ and forcible argument,' which is itfelf fufEcient 
'^ to verify the aflertion that the licitnefs of the 
" Slave Trade is perfedly conformable to the 
" principles of the Chriftian difpenfation," will 
be found entirely groundlefsj — after which I fhall 
proceed to confider what he calls his collateral 
evidences derived from the New Teflament. 

After having, with fome indecency of ex- 
preflion, aflerted that " God never did, nor 
ever could, alter by any difpenfation whatever, 
thofe eternal principles and laws, which are the 
very bafis and foundation of true religion-, and 
confequently of the religion of Chrift," he ad- 
duces, as he fays, " no lefs an authority in con- 
*^ firmation of thisindifputable do6lrine, than the 
" very words of the Son of God, who in that 
*^ divine fermon on the mount, in which he o-ave 
" his difciples a mod minute and circumftantial 
*^ account of the principles and tenets of his gof- 
" pel, condemned the above erroneous opinion 
" in the moll explicit terms, and forbad them 
" even to think of it. Think not, faid he, that I 
*' am come to dejiroy the law or the prophets y I came 
*' not to deftroy, hut to fulfill' 

This being the only authority produced by Mr. 
H. in fuppbrt of his affertion, of the equality of 
the Old and New 'TefiamentSy I lliall firfl point our, 
what I conceive to be the true purport of that 
palTages and fhall afterwards produce fuch autho- 

rities. 



C 3^ ) 

nuts. In fupport of my opinion, as I think the 
warmeft friends of Mr. H. muft admit to be de- 
cifive on the point in queftion. 

*' ^hink not, fays our Saviour y that I am come to 
** deftroy the law and the prophets , I am not come to 
** defiroyy but to fulfil:' 

By which is clearly to be underftood, that he 
came not to overthrow thofe firft principles of 
morality, which are inculcated in the Old Tefta- 
ment, but to improve and carry them to a higher de- 
gree of perfe5lion', and accordingly in the fequel 
of his difcourfe, he adverts to many a5fions and 
tnodes of condu5i which were permitted under the law, 
but which he declares are improper , and actually 
prohibits, thereby making a mofi effential difference 
between the morality of the Old 'Tejtament, and that 
of the New. 

Matt. ch. V. ver, 21. " Ye have heard that it 
** was faid by them of old time, thou fhalt not 
" kill ; and whofoever fhall kill, fhall be in 
*' danger of the judgment. 

" 22. But I fay unto you, that whofoever is 
*^ angry with his brother without a caufe, fhall 
" be in danger of the judgment, &c. 

^« 27. Ye have heard that it was faid of old 
*^ time, thou (halt not commit adultery. 

*' 28. But I fay unto you> that whofoever 
*« looketh on a woman to luft after her, hath 
" committed adultery already with her in his 
** heart. 

<f 38. Ye have heard that it hath been faid, 
** an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. 

*« 39. But I fay unto you, that ye refill not 
" evil ; but whofoever fhall fmite thee on thy 
" right cheek, turn to him the other alfo. 

" 43- Ye 



( 33 ) 

«* 43- ^^ hzvQ heard that it hath been faid^ 
" thou (halt love thy neighbour, and hate thine 
*^ enemy. 

" 44. But I fay unto you^ Love your enemies^ 
*^ blejs them that curje you^ and pray for them which 
** defpitefiilly uje you and per Je cute you. ^' 

Could any doubt remain after confidering the 
foregoing paiTage, as to the meaning of our Sa- 
viour's declaration, that he came not to deftroy^ hut 
to fulfil y or the fuperior and controlling power of 
the Chriftian difpenfation, the following explicit 
declaration of the Apoftle Paul, upon thefubje6b, 
will perhaps have as much w^eight as the pofitive 
aflertions of Mr. H. to the contrary. 

Heb. ch. vii. ver. 18. " For there is verily a 
*^ difannulling of the commandment going before,^ for 
*' the weaknefs and unprofitahlenejs thereof,'' 

" 19. For the law made nothing per feoly but thje 
*^ bringing in of a better hope did^ by the which 
*^ we draw nigh unto God. 

" 22. By fo much was Jefus made a furety of 
^* a letter ieftament'' 

Thus then it appears to demonftration, that 
the Chriftian religion is not only fuperior to the 
Mofaic inftitution, but that it's authority was 
exerted to change or make void, or in the words 
of the apoftle, " to difannul the commandment going 
before ; and confequently all denominations of 
Chriftians muft admit, that wherever the fanc- 
tions and ordinances of the Old Teftament inter- 
fere with the purer doctrines and more humane 
precepts of the New, they are not to be regarded 
as of fufficient weight to juftify the followers of 
Chrift, in the imitation of them. 

Nor is it from this circumftance to be pre- 

fumptuoufly inferred (as Mr. H, afFedts to think) 

C " That 



( 34 ) 

** That God is not confiftent with himfelf^ or 
*' that the religion of the New Teftament, in- 
*' (lead of being the perfedion and acconHplifli- 
" ment, is the reproach and condemnation of the 
*^ old law." The Mofaic inftitution was not of 
general import, but was principally confined to 
the Jews J and contained regulations, both of a 
civil and religious nature, proper to that people, 
under a Theocratic Government, but inapplicable 
in many inftances to mankind in general. — Nor 
was it in many refpeds fo pure and perfefl in its 
moral precepts, as that with which mankind were 
afterwards favoured. Upon this point the tefti- 
mony of the Apoftle Paul, in his Epiftle to the 
Galatians (who appear to have receded from the 
gofpel difpenfation to the inadequate precepts of 
the old law) is fo peculiarly applicable, that I 
cannot avoid citing it as a full anfwer to Mr. 
Harris's charge of inconfillency in the Old and 
New Teftaments. 

Galatians, ch. iii. ver, 19. '^ Wherefore then 
<f ferveth the law ^ It was added becaufe of tranf- 
*^ greffions, till the feed fhould come to whom 
<^ the promife was made, and it was ordained by 
" angels in the hand of a mediator. 

" 21. Is the law then againft the promijes of 
*^ God? Cod forbid — for if there had been a law 
*^ given, which could have given life — verily right-- 
*' eoufnefs Jhould have been by the law, 

'' 22. But the fcripture hath concluded all 
«^ under fin — ^that the promife by faith of Jefus 
*« Chrifl might be given to them that believe. 

" 23. But before faith came we were kept under 
*^ the law, fhut up unto the faith, which fhould 
** afterwards be revealed, 

" 24e Where- 



( 55 ) 

*^ 24. Wherefore the law was our fchoolmafter 
^^ to bring us unto Chrift, that we might be juf- 
" tified by faith. 

*^ 25. But after thai faith is come fwe are m 
*^ longer under a fchoolmafter,^^ 

From this palTage then it will appear, that the 
daring accufation thrown out by Mr. H, that the 
Supreme Being is inconfiflent with himfelf, be- 
caufe he did not, under the Chriflian difpenfa- 
tion, confirm and confine himfelf to every moral 
injundlion of the Old Tellament, can only be 
made by fuch perfonsy as, having for interefted pur- 
pofes attempted to eftabliili a fyllem which the 
evident purport of the Scriptures cannot fupport, 
have no method to hide their difgrace, but by 
this direfl and dreadful imputation on the facred 
writings and their Divine Author. 

It is alfo equally evident from the foregoing 
paflages of the New Teilament, not only that 
the moral prohibitions of our Saviour extended 
further than the injundlions of the old law, and 
rendered that condu61: unlawfuly which had be- 
fore been permitted, but that fuch prohibitions 
actually extended to the particular cafe in quef- 
tion, and that all praBices, inimical to the gene« 
ral welfare and interefts of mankind, v/ere from 
thenceforth to be abolillied ; for if it be the duty 
of aChriftian not to refift evil — to love his enemies — to 
blefs thofe that curfcy and pray for thofe who perfecute 
himy — how can it be fuppofed that he fhall at the fame 
time have an inherent right to do evil unto another--^. 
to injure thofe who never injured him — and to deftroy 
thofe y who fo far from having either perjecutedy or 
cur fed hiniy have never known that fuch a per f on was 
in exiflence? 

C 2 I do 



( 36 ) 

I do not conceive it neceflary to follow Mr. H. 
through the tedious argument^ by which he labours 
to prove, that the filence of the New Teflament 
refpe6ling the Jlave trade ^ (fuppofing it to be filent 
on the fubjedt) is a virtual approbation of that 
pradlice. The New Teflament is totally filent on 
many crimes of the greatefl magnitude, if fuch 
filence is to be inferred from its not conts.ining 
'particular prohibitions againjl them\ — but will any 
perfon contend that fuch crimes are lawful, be- 
caufe no fpecific denunciations are pronounced 
againfl them by our Saviour ? Or are they not un~ 
derftood to be included in thofe general prohibi- 
tions and commands, to love our neighbour as our- 
felves, which compofe the fum and eflence of the 
Chriftian religion ? 

But if the books ofthe New Teftament be filent 
on many particular offences, they lay down gene- 
ral and mofl powerful precepts for the regulation 
ofthe heart and life, leaving the profefTors of 
Chriflianity to apply thefe precepts to particular 
cafes J and they who have imbibed the true fpirit 
of charity, breathed in the gofpel, will not find it 
necelTary to adopt a long train of reafoning, in 
order to perceive whether t\\& Jlave trade be lawful, 
or not ; but as foon as they underitand its nature 
and confequences, will feel a lively convidionj 
that Chriftianity abhors the praElice. 

The Implied arguments of Mr. H. in favour of 
the flave trade, from the exa5f conformity of the 
moral precepts of the New 'Teftament with thofe of the 
Old, and the filence of the New Teftament on that 
fpecific crime, being thus fufficiently refuted ; it 
may now be proper to turn to what he calls his 
collateral proofs from the New Teflament, or 

thofe 



( 37 ) 

thofe palTages which he pretends afford a pofitivc 
fandion to the flave trade, under the new law. 

This fandlion he conceives he has found in tv/o 
of the epiftles of Paul, viz. The ift of thofe to 
Tim„ c. vi. v. i, and that to Philemon, v. 8. 

But what fhall we fay, if this flender twig, which 
is now the only fupport of the finking advocate 
for flavery, fliould defert him; and it fhould ap- 
pear, from a candid and difpaffionate examination 
of the palTages in queftion, that the precepts of 
the apoftle, introduced by Mr. H. to juftify a 
courfe of condudt in dired oppofition to the pre- 
cepts of Chriflianity, afford not the flightcft infe- 
rence inimical to the general rules of goodwill 
and benevolence inculcated in other parts of the 
New Teftament ? 

In the palTage firfl cited by Mr. H. Tim. c. iv. 
V. I, the apoftle Paul exhorts " as many as are 
*^ under the yoke, to count their matters worthy 
*' of all honour, that the name of God and his 
*^ do6lrine be not blafphemed ; and that they who 
'^ have believing matters, fhould not defpife them, 
*' becaufe they are brethren, but rather do them 
" fervice, &c." — From whence he infers, *^ that 
" the primitive Chnftians were not only not for- 
^' bidden, but exprefsly allowed^ by the principles 
" of our religion, the purchafing of flaves, and 
^^ keeping their fellow creatures, nay, even their 
" fellow Chriftians, under the yoke of bondage or 
<« flavery." 

Now taking for granted, \vhat perhaps maywell 
be difputed, that the perfons fpoken of in this 
pafTage were flaves for life, — it mutt be remem- 
bered, that the great author of the Chrittian fyftem 
did not think proper to pppofe his authority to the 

C 3 political 



( 38 ) 

political arrangements which at the time of his 
mifTion fubfifled on the face of the earth. His 
do6lrines always inculcated fubmifiion to fuperi- 
ors, and patience under injuries ; and this dodrine 
the apoftle -applies, in the prefent -inftance, to a 
particular clafs of perfons, to whom he thought 
fuch admonitions were neceffary; requiring them 
<^ to count their mailers worthy of all honour," 
meaning thereby, that during the continuance of 
their fervitude (the origin, nature, or duration of 
which does not appear,) they fhould perform their 
duty, and patiently fubmit to the fituation in 
which they were placed ; but by no means juftify- 
ing any perfon who held another in illegal or forcible 
Juhje5tion. The apoftle exhorts thefe fervants to 
account their mafters worthy of all honour, that 
the name of God and his dodrine be not blafphe- 
med; but which Chriftianrlike fubmiiTion, and 
forbearance, though an a^ of virtue in the fervant^ 
could by no means jufify^ but would rather tend 
to aggravate, the crime of the m.after. In exaft 
conformity to this do6lrine is the precept of our 
Saviour, " If any one ftrtke thee on thy right cheeky 
*^ turn to him the other aljo.'' But will Mr. H. main- 
tain that it is lawful to ftrike a Chriftian, becaufe 
his religion commands him not to refift evil ? Or 
is it not rather the highefl aggravation, that the 
meek and peaceable deportment of the perfon of- 
fended, could not fecure him from infult and 
abufe ? 

The long quotation Mr. PI. has made from the 
Epiftle of Paul to Philemon, is fo far from being a 
jufliBcation of llavery, that to every perfon not 
perufing the fcriptures with a particular bias on 
his mindj, it is evidently a po.werfui exhortation 

^gainft 



( 39 ) 

againfl It. The apoftle fends back Onefimus to. 
his mafter, requefling him to receive him, " not as 
'^ ajervant^ hut above a fervant ; a brother beloved, 
^' especially to me, but how much more unto 
*' thee, both in the fleflj and in the Lord'' Where 
does the apoftle addrefs Philemon in the words ex~ 
prefsiy attributed to him by Mr. H. " that he 
** would never attempt to deprive him of his Jlave V* 
Where does he acknowledge to Philemon, *^ that 
*^ Onefimus is his own brother in Chrift, though 
^^ ftill his proferty according to the jieJhT' Thefe 
paffages feem to be the laft refort of a perfon, 
who, not being able to fupport his aiTertion from 
the evident purport of the words, is obliged to 
have recourfe to forgery and interpolation. 

Such however are the grounds upon which Mr. 
H. has ventured to infringe upon the pofitive 
commands of our Saviour, with refpe61: to our 
conduct tov/ards each other J — but an apprehen- 
fion arifing in his mind, that thefe paffages might, 
after all the pains employed in enforcing them, be 
infulEcient to anfwer his purpofe, whilft the pre- 
cepts of good- will given to mankind in the New 
Teftament remained unimpeached — he finds it 
neceflary, in the laft place, to abridge the purport 
of thefe precepts, and to weaken their influence. 
For this purpofe, he feleds out of the many fimi- 
lar paffages which the New Teftament affords, one 
which he conceives may bear a more limited 
fenfe; and be explained in fuch a manner, as not 
to appear inconfiftent v/ith his favourite eftablifh- 
ment. Whether he has been fortunate in his fe- 
ledtion will appear from a fhort inveftigation. 

Matt, c. vii. v. 12. '' All things whatfoever ye 
** would that men lliould do to you^ do ye even 

C 4 '' fo 



( 40 ) 

" fo to them J for this is the law and the pro- 
<* phets." 

This divine precept, delivered by Chrift to his 
difciples at the conclufion of his fermon on the 
mount, is fo flri6t an injunction againft every kind 
of injuftice and opprefTion j exprefTed in a manner 
fo forcible, and prefcribing a teft of our condu6t 
fo eafily applied upon every occafion, that Mr. H. 
was aware it could not be overlooked in this 
controverfy -, and he has accordingly employed 
the utmoft of his fophiftry to evade its import. 

After ftating the palTage, he gives the converfe 
of it in the following words. 

^^ Whatfoever things therefore we would not 
'^ that men Ihould do to us, we are not even fo to 
^* do to them ; but no perfon whatever would 
^^ certainly wiQi that a fellow-creature fhould re- 
*' duce him to the condition of a flave, therefore 
*' no perfon whatever is to reduce a fellow-crea- 
*^ ture to that condition." 

" Here^ fays he, I mufl: obferve, that no one 
*' canjuftly tax me with any partiality to the 
*^ caufe I have efpoufed j'l have, I think, worded 
*' the argument againft it, in terms as forcible as 
*^ the moft zealous advocate for African liberty 
'^ could ufe j but unanfwerable as the fame may 
appear to them, it is bun a -plaufihk argument at 
heft. 

^' It is an axiom in logic, that an argument 
that prov'es too much, proves nothing — the 
above is juft fuch a one -, for by the fame manner 
of reafoning, one might equally conclude, con- 
trary to the law, and the prophets, and the doc- 
trine of the Chriftian religion, that not only 
^^ flavcry, but every other kind of fubordination 

" of 



( 4X ) 

" of one man to another, ought not to be fufFered 
^* to continue in the world. The argument, if 
" conclufive in the former cafe, muft be equally 
*^ fo in the latter, I enforce it thus : — 

" All things whatjoever^ fays our blefTed Sa- 
** viour, that men Jhould do to you^ do ye even fo to 
*' themy for this is the law and the prophets. What- 
*' foever things therefore we would not that men 
*' fhould do to us, we are not even fo to do to 
*' them \ but every perfon would naturally wifh 
*' not to be controlled by a fellow-creature, not 
" to be under any JubjeBion to him, but to be ab- 
** folute mailer of his own adtions; no perfon 
" therefore ought to keep a fellow-creature under 
*' any control or fubjedtion whatever/' 

Surely fo manifeft a perverfion of the precepts 
of Chrift, never before difgraced the prefs. // is 
not true that every perfon would wiih not to he co^i- 
trolled by a fellow-creature, nor to be under anyjub- 
je5iion to him^ hut to be abfolute mafier of his own 
actions. Every man of common fenfe knows, that 
from the conftitution of the univerfe, he is depend- 
ant on, and muft neceflarily in many refpe^fts be 
controlled by others; and none but an idiot 
would wifh to be difcharged from the relative du- 
ties of life, and to be abfolute mafter of his own 
a6tions. Nor is any fituation in life exempt from 
this general law, which by an interchange of good 
offices binds together the valt fabrick of fociety — 
but every man may reafonably obje6t to his being 
forcibly reduced to a fiate offlavery, and deprived of 
thofe natural rights which the reft of mankind en- 
joy — ?. ftate which fo far from occafioning an in- 
terrliange of good offices, gives rife on the one 
kand only to pride^ cruelty and injufticej and on 

the 



( 42 ) 

the other, to fear, meannefs, and hatred. Ic does 
not then by any means follow^ that hecauje man- 
kind have an uniform aveiTion to a flate of fla- 
very, they h^ve therefore a diflike to all the other 
natural and juft fubordinations and dependencies 
of life 5 and Mr. H's impeachment of this pre- 
cept is therefore as unfounded as all his other at- 
tempts to explain away the evident purport of the 
dodrines of the New Teftament. 

Having found that the fenfe evidently implied 
in, and univerfally underflood from, thefe words, 
is not the true one, he gives us his ov/n definition 

of it. " Every Chriftian, fays he, is taught and 

*^ dire61:ed to do unto others as he would be done 
" unto, and by a neceffary confequence, not to do 
*^ unto others as he would not be done unto ; — 
^' that is, fays he, evei-y Chriftian is commanded 
<« to behave to his neighbour in whatever fitua- 
^' tion or circumftances in life providence may have 
*' plizced them hoth/]u?z as he would wilh his neigh- 
*^ bour to behave to him, in his fituation, were 
" his neighbour's fituation and circumftances his 
" own." Defpicable evafion 1 Wretched fophif- 
try 1 Shall a man, who has voluntarily and forci- 
bly reduced another to a ftate of the moft abjed 
inifery of which his nature is capable, impioufly 
affert that providence has placed him in that fituation i 
Shall he fatisfy himfelf with the plaufible pretext 
of a6ling with kindnefs towards him, whilft he 
has it in his power to extend to him that mercy 
which in the fame fituation he would himfelf moft ar- 
dently wifh for. As well might the midnight mur- 
derer, who holds the knife over the innocent 
vidtim of his cruelty, 2.i^txx. i\\2Li providence has de- 
livered him into his hands, and claim a merit m 

putting 



( 43 ) 

putting him to death with as little pain as pofTible. 
Surely if it be the duty of a Chriflian to relieve 
thofe who are in fituations of diftrefs, it is not lejs 
incumbent on him to place th^m in a better fitua- 
tion, as often as it lies in his power. 

That the Chriftian religion is inimical in its na- 
ture to every fpecies of opprefTion, and particular- 
ly to that which involves in it almoil every other 
kind of guilt, is I hope already evident. But as 
a further confirmation of this fentiment, it may 
not be improper to fhew, what has been the gene- 
ral fenfe of mankind as to the fpirit and purport 
of'the Chriflian religion. So oppofite are its pre- 
cepts to the encouragement of Qavery, that a ce- 
lebrated hiftorian,"^ has not fcrupled to account 
for the degree of liberty, which is at prefent en- 
joyed throughout moft parts of Europe, from the 
Influence of this religion on the minds of the peo- 
ple.— I Ihall give you the paflage.— 

" The gentle fpirit of the Chriflian religion, 
«« too-ether with the doclrines which it teaches 
<^ concerning the original equality of mankind, 
« as well as the impartial eye with which the Al- 
*' mio-hty regards men of every condition, and 
" admits them to a participation of his benefits, 
^'f are inconfiflent with fervitude •, but in this, 
«' as in many other inftances, confiderations of inte- 
« reft, and the maxims of falje policy y led men to a 
" conducl inconfiflent with their principles. They 
«' were fo fenfible, however, of their inconfiflen- 
<^ cy, that to fet their fellow Chriflians at liberty 
«f from fervitude, was deemed an ad of piety 

♦ Robenfon's Hill. Charles V. Proofs and iUuft. v. i. 



note 20, 



t' highly 



( 44 ) 

«^ highly meritorious, and acceptable to heaven. 
«* The humane fpirit of the Chriftian religion ftrug- 
" gled with the maxims and manners of the world, 
'* and contributed more than any other circumjiance to 
«' introduce the pra5iice of manumijfion'^ 

The fame author furnifhes us with an authentic 
document, as a proof of this fad ; which, as it 
proceeds from the apoftolic chair, will have its 
due weight with Mr. H. It contains the reafons 
affigned by Pope Gregory the Great, in the fixth 
century, for granting liberty to his flaves. 

*^ Cum Redemptor nofter, totius conditor na- 
<' turae, ad hoc propitiatus, humanam carnem 
" volucrit afifumere, ut divinitatis fuae gratia, di- 
'^ rempto (quo tenebamur captivi) vinculo, pri- 
« ftinas nos reftituerit libertati ; falubriter agitur, 
'* fi homines, (luos ah initio liberos natura protulit^ 
^^ &jus gentium jugo fubftituit^ervitutis, in ea 
" qua nati fuerant, manumittentis beneficio, li- 
" bertate reddantur."* 

And the ufual tenor of the charters of manu- 
miflion is-^pro amore dei — pro remedio anim^y &c. 
clearly exprelTing the fenfe the inhabitants of Eu- 
rope have entertained, that the manumiflion of 
fiaves was an ad in conformity to the precepts of the 
Chriftian religion. 

Were I to continue thefe authorities down to 
the prefent times, and cite to Mr. H. the opinions 

• Seeing that Jefus Chrift, the author of all nature, for this 
exprefs purpofe, affumed the flefh, that by the favour of his 
divine power (the bonds of captivity being broken) he might 
reftore us to our former liberty : We conceive it to be devout- 
ly done, if, by the favour of manumiflion. Men, whom na- 
ture originally made free, and human laws fubjefled to the 
voke of fervitude, were again reftored to that liberty in which 
ihey were born, 

of 



( 45 ) 

of the many refpe6lable clergymen of every fed ia 
tliefe kingdoms who have oppofed this unlawful 
traffic ; feme of them folely and exprefsly on the 
ground of its being contrary to the didates of 
the Chriftian Religion, they would perhaps have 
little weight with him ; but with the rational and 
difpaffionate part of mankind, they will not be 
without their effedt -, and will be no inconfider- 
able authority towards the deduction which I 
conceive I may fairly be allowed to make from the 
foregoing remarks, viz. That the practice of 

SLAVERY, AS ALLOWED AMONGST THE JeWS, WAS 
ABROGATED BY THE GOSPEL DISPENSATION, AND 
DOES NOT NOW EXIST EITHER IN THEIR IMME- 
DIATE DESCENDANTS, OR IN ANY OTHER PEOPLE, 

If Mr. H. remains diffatisfied with a conclu- 
fion in fuch dired oppofition to the long corolla- 
ries at the end of his book, he muft contend, 
that the particular privilege granted to the Jews, 
and their anceflors, is not annulled^ but yet exiils 
in full force. And, as I have before remarked, 
mufl, if Juch a privilege be hereditary^ inilitute an 
enquiry into their lineal deJcendantSy amongfl 
whom I apprehend he will find fome difficulty 
in inrolling the inhabitants of thefe kingdoms. 

But if he denies alfo this laft propofition ; and 
afferts that the permiflion of holding others in 
flavery, was given indifcriminately to all man- 
kind y I muft beg you once more to confider for a 
moment the confequences and ahjurdities of fuch a 
fofition. If all mankind poffefs from God, an in- 
herent right to reduce intofuhje^ion any others of their 
fpecies^ this right is inherent as well in the Jlave as 
in his majler, who will therefore be perfedly juf- 
tified in making ufe of his utmoft exertions to 

change 



( 46 ) 

change fituations with him ; andfliouldhefucceed 
in his attempt, will, in his turn, have *' the 
*^ pofitive fandion of God/' for holding by force 
his former mafler in fuhje5fion to him. Thus then 
this univerfal permiflion or licitnejs of ilavery, 
contended for by the author of the pamphlet, ter- 
minates in a vindication of univerfal opprefiion,— 
in an affertion of the right of the ftronger, at all 
times to injure and opprefs the v^eaker. In fliort, 
in a general annihilation of all thofe reftraints, 
which Law, Reafon, Religion, and Common 
Senfe,-have hitherto impofed upon mankinds 



THE E N D< 



BOOKS Publiihed by James Phillips, George- 
Yard, Lombard-Street. 

An ESSAY on the Treatment and Conver- 
fion of African Slaves in the Britiih Sugar Co- 
lonies. By J. Ramsay, Vicar of Teflon in Kent. 
4s. Boards. 

An INQUIRY into the EfFeds of putting a 
Stop to the African Slave Trade, and of grant- 
ing Liberty to the Slaves in the Britiih Sugar 
Colonies. By J. Ramsay. 6d. 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invedlives and 
Obje6tions contained in Two Anfwers, publifh- 
ed by certain anonymous Perfons^ to an EfTay 

on 



on the Treatment and Converfion of African 
Slaves, in the Britiih Colonies. By James 

RaMSA\^. 2S. 

A LETTER to James Tobin, Efq. late Mem- 
ber of his Majeily's Council in the Ifland of Nevis. 
By James Ramsay. 6d. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. S. Smith, to the 
Rev. Mr. Hill, on the State of the Negroe 
Slaves. To which are added an Introdudion, and 
Remarks on Free Negroes. By the Editor. 6d. 

OBJECTIONS to the Abolition of the Slave 

Trade, with ANSWERS. The Second Edition 
with Additions. By J. Ramsay, is. 

EXAMINATION of the Rev. Mr. Harrises 
Scriptural Refearches on the Licitnefs of the 
Slave Trade, By J. Ramsay. 6d, 

An ESSAY on the Slavery and Commerce of 
the Human Species, particularly the African, 
tranflated from a Latin DiiTertation, which was 
honoured with the Firil Prize in the Univerfity 
of Cambridge, for the Year 1785. Second Edi- 
tion with Additions, by T. Clarkson. 3s. 

An ESSAY on the Impolicy of the African 
Slave Trade. In Two Parts. By the Rev. T, 
Clarkson. M. A. 2d Edition. 2s. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her Colo- 
nies, in a fhort Reprefentation of the calamitous 
State of the enflaved Negroes in the Britifli Do- 
minions. By Anthony Benezet. 6d. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the Ne- 
groes. 4d. 

A SERIOUS ADDRESS to the Rulers of 
America, on the Inconfillency of their Condudt 
refpeding Slavery, 3d. 

The 



The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the Op- 
prefled Africans, refpedtfully recommended to 
the ferious Confideration of the Legiflature of 
Great Britain, by the People called Quakers. 2d. 

A Summary View of the SLAVE TRADE, 
and of the probable Confequences of its Aboli- 
tion. 2d. 

A LETTER to the Treafurer of the Society 
inftituted for the Purpofe of elfedling the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade. From the Rev. Robert 
Boucher Nicholls, Dean of Middleham. A 
new Edition enlarged. 6d. 

An ACCOUNT of the Slave Trade on the 
Coaft of Africa, by Alexander Falconbridge, 
late Surgeon in the African Trade. A new Edi- 
tion. 9d, 

WEST INDIAN ECLOGUES, dedicated to 
the late Lord Bifhop of Chefter, by a Perfon who 
|-efided feveral Years in the Weft-Indies. 2s. 

REMARKS on the Slave Trade, and the Sla- 
very of the Negroes, in a Series of Letters, by 
Africanus. 2s. 6d. 



